2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

15 May 1995

FOR:
David Marwell
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM:
John Pereira
CIA/Historical Review Group

SUBJECT:
Mexico City/Sensitive Information

The Directorate of Operations prepared the attached statement to assist the Assassination Records Review Board. The statement explains the sensitivity of the records related to telephone tap operations in Mexico City. This may help provide a perspective for further discussions on the subject.

![signature of John Pereira]
John Pereira

Attachment

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

SUBJECT: Release of Information on Mexico City Teltaps

1. Protection of sources and methods and liaison equities require that references to the Mexico City Station teltap activity be excised from any documents released under the auspices of the JFK Assassination Record Collection Act of 1992. While the teltap activity mentioned in the documents under review occurred some thirty plus years ago, the joint teltap operation with Mexican liaison has never been terminated; it continues to this day in a slightly different form.

2. Release of any information that would constitute official USG acknowledgment of the existence of the joint teltap operation would have a serious adverse impact on current operations. Relations between the Station and the liaison service would be affected, with the likely outcome of discouraging liaison from cooperating in similar ventures in the future with Mexico City Station. Official acknowledgment of the existence of the joint teltap in the 1960's would embarrass the liaison service given Mexico's strong brand of nationalism and sensitivity towards the issue of sovereignty vis a vis the United States. The service probably would terminate its cooperation with the Station on the current joint teltap operation in order to be able to defend itself against domestic critics.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)