2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

27 MAY 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: DD/S-HB

ATTENTION : Mr. Joseph E. Murphy, Jr. G G 14

SUBJECT : [PUGH, Robert West]
[#789 656]

1. Reference is made to your request dated 4 January 1966 wherein you requested a Covert Security Approval to permit Subject's use as First Officer in the Far East under Project HBILKA/JBGREED.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled-In)

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

![Microfiche reproductions destroy after use]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

27 MAY 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Executive Officer
Project HBILKA/JBGREED

SUBJECT : PUGH, Robert West
#789 656

1.  Reference is made to your request dated 4 January 1966 for a Covert Security Approval to permit Subject's use as a First Officer in the Far East under Project HBILKA/JBGREED. Concurrent with issuance of the approval, the following is offered for your information.

2.  Investigation has recently been completed with generally favorable results. However, Subject's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the Navy. His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgement, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail with Subject on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indica- tion of over-indulgence since his departure from the military on October 1964.

3.  Additionally, it was developed that Subject's brother Bartholomew, aka: Bart PUGH, was the Subject of an FBI investi- gation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding the loyalty of Subject's brother. Subject's brother was determined to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Communist matters in the Los Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

'information developed during the course of this investigation which indicated any association between Subject and his brother.

4. Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis..

![signature of Howard J. Osborn]Howard J. Osborn
Director of Security

cc: DD/S

SECRET

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Taipei ATTN: Chief, HEILKA

INFO:

FROM: Chief, Far East

SUBJECT: IDEN -- HEILKA/KUSODA

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

1.  A Covert Security Approval was granted IDEN on 27 May 1966 however the following information is forwarded for your information.

Investigation has recently been completed with generally favorable results. However IDEN's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the Navy. His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgment, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail with IDEN on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.

Additionally, it was developed that IDEN's brother Bartholomew, aka: Bart, was the subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding the loyalty of IDEN's brother. IDEN's brother was determined to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Communist matters in the Los Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed during the course of this investigation which indicated any association between IDEN and his brother.

2.  Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Attachment:
IDEN (u/s/c)

Distribution:
Orig & 2 – Addressee

HUGH C. PARDEE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

1. A Covert Security Approval was granted WIKI on 27 May 1966 however the following information is forwarded for your information.

Investigation has recently been completed with gmerally favorable results. However IDEN's military file indicated that he had been found unfit for duty due to excessive drinking, and had been allowed to retire in the best interests of the lavy. His Navy record stated that this drinking problem adversely affected his judgment, reliability, and personal behavior. This weakness had been discussed to no avail with IDEN on several occasions. It should be noted that domestic inquiries developed no indication of over-indulgence since his departure from the military in October 1964.

Additionally, it was developed that IDEM's brother Bartholomew, ska: Bart, was the subject of an FBI investigation in 1941, which was conducted to resolve allegations regarding the loyalty of IDEN's brother. IDEW's brother was determined to have been associated with known Communists and was active in Commmist matters in the Los, Angeles, California area during this period of time. However, it was noted that these activities had caused a break with this individual and his family, who were not in sympathy with his viewpoints and activities. There was no information developed during the course of this investigation which indicated any association betusen IEN and his brother.

2. Dissemination of the above information should be limited to Staff and Project Officials on a strict "need to know" basis.

Attachment:
IDEN (u/s/c)

Distribution:
Orig & 2- Addressee

HUGH C. PARURE

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FCTB 8572

DATE 14 JUL 1956
13 July 1966

HQS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

Distribution:
1-08/ID/1
1 - ID/8-13

OFFICE
10/8-13

OFFICER

ORIGINATING
TYPIST

EXT
6868

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
OFFICER'S NAME

08/ID/1
7/13/66

FE/TABI
FE/HSCOH

13 JUL 1968.

OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE

RELEASING
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

C/VE
14 July 66

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

RYDAT

SEGRET

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
[FCTS-8572]
22

IDENTITY SHEET

03
IDEN----------------------------[MR. ROBERT WEST PUCH]



SEGRET RYGAT

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS
DESTROY AFTER USE

2/pd

Caa Nt #


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

14-00000

2 - 10/4/66

108 Chung Shan Road, North, 2nd Section
Taipei, Taiwan

REC'D WAS OCT 4 1966
27 September 1966

PND-DP-66/4427

Mr. R. W. Pugh
Taipei, Taiwan 13-6

Dear Mr. Pugh

This letter will confirm acceptance of your resignation effective 27 September 1966 at the close of business.

A final pay check representing any unpaid salary due you less any debits you may have on the Company books will be forwarded to your bank:

Bank of America
4th Street
Santa Rosa, California.

You have given us your forwarding address as:

756 Baird Road
Santa Rosa California
U. S. A

We thank you for your past service and wish you success in the future.

Sincerely yours,

David R. Traylor
Director of Personnel

l/cc: Paymaster
CC:
Assistant for Personnel via HDR, President

r. W. Pugh F/O TAC, DOS 8 February 1966

r. Pugh resigned effective 27 September 1966 cob.
He indicated to us that he wished to quit flying and go home.

![MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS DESTROY AFTER USE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

TO:

CHIEF CI/OA OS/ID/1

SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true may be used):

Pugh, Robert West

FROM: (Division) (Case officer) (Extension)

DD/S-HB J.M.Clark 6862

CI/OA NO.:

201 NO.

08 789656

NAME SHOWN IS:

PROJECT

TRUE PSEUDO CRYPT

02 JBGREED

DATE OF BIRTH

08 789 656

PLACE OF BIRTH

AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD

IS ATTACHED WILL BE FORWARDED

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION

Unknown

Subject has resigned his employment with HEILKA.

DATE

6 Oct 68

SIGNATURE

201-789656

for Jack M. Clark

FORM 937 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION.

2-58

SECRET

4591

MICROFICHE REPRODUCTIONS DESTROY AFTER USE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

DATE

4 January 1966

TO:
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
FROM:
CHIEF INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:
(True name)
03
[PUGH, Robert West]
PROJECT
DD/S-HB
02
JBCREED
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES
CI/OA FILE NO.
RI 201 FILE NO.
201-789 656
SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

☑ PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK

X COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

CONTRACT TYPE A
CONTRACT TYPE В

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Far East (General)

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

02

First Officer, HEILKA.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST?
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

Phr

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO II WILL BE FORWARDED
PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO:

6. RI TRACES

NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD
NON-DEROGATORY.
DEROGATORY ATTACHED

7. DIVISION TRACES.

NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD
NON-DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY ATTACHED

8. FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD

NO DEROGATORY INFO.
DEROGATORY ATTACHED

LIST SOURCES CHECKED
SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED

NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER
JOSEPH E. MURREY

EXTENSION
6862
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

FORM 772
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)