# 14-00000 104-10124-10149 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

*FILE*

MEMORANDUM FOR: Security Staff, Office of Logistics

FROM: Chief, TSD/Security

SUBJECT: Identi-kit

SO 9-527
21 March 1960

1. Attached to this memorandum is a copy of an article appearing in the February 1960, issue of "Science and Mechanics" magazine, Page 2 raflects a comment to the effect that the U. S. Intelligence under wrote the development of the Identi-kit to the amount of $87,000.

2. TSD/EB under RD-177 and under the (EAPWORT) Program has invested $82,531 into the Identi-kit. Chief Hugh C, MCDONALD, who is mentioned in the article, is a cleared TED consultant. He was initially briefed by Mr. ANDERSON, TSD/EB. The Agency sponsored Mr. MCDONALD's visit to Washington and arranged his trip to Honolulu, Hawaii, all in connection with the development of the Identi-kit. The Townsend Corporation, work- ing with McDONAID, has built a number of these kits and will advise the Agency of those sold to foreign powers, etc. Mr. Courtney OWENS, Sales manager of Townsend Engineering Corporation, is a TSD/EB cleared source and understands the Agency's interest in the Kit. Townsend has also opened a school for Identi-kit users. Three persona from TSD have attended this school.

3. The TSD project engineers are very dubious that MCDONALD disalosed classified information to unauthorized persons and speak highly of him. They have especially noted his eagerness to assist us on various crash-typs projects of an unclassified nature.

4. Therefore, we have no desire to alienate his feelings. Fovertheless, I would suggest that Mr. JONES, during his forthcoming visit to the West Coast, interview Mr. MCDONALD to determino, if possible, the reason for inclusion of U. S. Intelligence interest in the attached article, whether or not CIA was mentioned during his interview with the author and to further brief MODONALD if necessary. Furthermore, the Identi-kit is expected to receive considerable publicity as the sales program is stepped up.

5. A copy of this memorandum is being forwarded to PSD (Attn: Robert SWENDIMAN) to determine whether or not any other components of the Agency are or have used MaDONALD (possibly contacts or SED).

James P. O'CONNOR
Chief, TSD/Security

Distributions

Orig & 1 - Addressse Watt

- Ftyd. Sed. Div. (Survey Br.)

- Pers. Sed. Div. (Mr. SHEKDIMAN)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)