14-00000
104-10193-10075
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL EEVEENED AT CON HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT CUTTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF JEBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLEU:
Personnel file:
Thomas B. CASASIN

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL. UNIT/LOCATION:

ROON:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:
Sources and methods

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 08/29.8.78    | 10:10         | Betsy WOLF               | Betsy Wolf                      |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO LOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR BLHOVED FROM THIS FILE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

THIS FOLDER CONTAINS ALL
PERTINENT INFORMATION/DOCUMENTS
FROM CASASIA'S (P) PERSONNEL
FOLDER FOR PERIOD 1955-1962.
(IN MID 1962 CASASIN WENT
OVERSEAS.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART

31 JUL 1923 - 1950

25 NOV 1949

Jul 1954

FCG c/s

Ilena

1943-49 Military Service, US Army, Ist Lt. - Civil Censorship Officer, Japanese Translator & Instructor, liaison Officer

1949 Guido Publishing Co, Baltimore, Md - County Editor of weekly paper

1949 Baltimore Housing Authority, Md - Administrative Officer

1942 Trinity Collage, Conn - French

1940-42 Sir George Williams College, Montreal, Canada - Fromsh

1945 Univ of Michigan, Army Language School - (1947), Oriental Civilization, Japanese

1951-52 Georgetown Univ Graduate School - International Relations

French - P, P, S, U, High; W, Interp.(Feb 1960), Trans & Interp Aug 1957

Japanese - P, S, U, Interp.(Mar 1962); R, W, Elim; Trans & Interp Aug 1957

> [Figure: A table with CIA employment history since 18 SEPT 1947]

Date Rev. 9 Apr 1964


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

DICORNPIC PROFILE (PAR 2).

24. SUMMARY OF CAREER PREFERENCE OUT.

25. ΙΟΕΝΤITY OF OTHER OGCUMENTS WHICH SHOULD BE KEVILWED IN OCTAIL

1955 From Director, FBI and the DSI for cervics in connectica with Soviet Defectors.

Commandation 1955 Som CA Defector Coordinator for cooperation and competence, in chornating of two dercators.

Commendation 955 from the SSI for high degree of personal competence and devetion

Letter of appreciation 1980 for suggestion which proposed revisios of Form 1050.

Letter from Carmandant, USAF Command and Suci college for fine lecture.

27. DATE AEVIEWED

20 Apr 1961

28- PROFILE REVIEWED BY

FORM NO. 1200 (PART 2) PLACES FORM 1030 (PART 2) SECRET

PROFILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

Instructions:

1.  Answer all questions completely. If question does not apply write “not applicable.” Write “unknown” only if you do not know the answer and cannot obtain the answer from personal records. Use the blank pages at the end of this form for extra details on any question or questions for which you do not have sufficient room.
2.  Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

HAVE YOU READ AND DO YOU UNDERSTAND THE INSTRUCTIONS? YES

SEC. 1. PERSONAL BACKGROUND

A. FULL NAME

CASASIN

Telephone: NOT APPLICABLE
Home: 40-1983

PRESENT ADDRESS

ST. PAUL ST- BALTIMORE, MD, USA

PERMANENT ADDRESS

ST. PAUL ST- BALTIMORE, MD, USA

B. NICKNAME

NONE

WHAT OTHER NAMES HAVE YOU USED?

UNDER WHAT CIRCUMSTANCES HAVE YOU EVER USED THESE NAMES?

NOT APPLICABLE

HOW LONG? IF A LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS

C. DATE OF BIRTH 20 JAN 1924 PLACE OF BIRTH: BALTIMORE, MD, USA

D. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP

USA

BY BIRTH? YES

BY NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NOT APPLICABLE

HAVE YOU HAD A PREVIOUS NATIONALITY? NO

HELD BETWEEN WHAT DATES? TO ANY OTHER NATIONALITY NOT APPLICABLE

HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP? NO GIVE PARTICULARS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

R. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. WHEN DID YOU FIRST ARRIVE IN THIS COUNTRY? *N/A*

PORT OF ENTRY?

ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY?

LAST U.S. VISA

SEC. 2. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION

AGE *24* SEX *MALE* HEIGHT *5'9 1/2"* WEIGHT *140*

EYES *BROWN* HAIR *BROWN* COMPLEXION *DARK* SCARS *FOREHEAD*

BUILD *SLENDER* OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES *NONE*

SEC. 3. MARITAL STATUS.

A. SINGLE *YES* MARRIED DIVORCED WIDOWED

STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR SEPARATION, DIVORCE OR ANNULMENT

B. WIFE OR HUSBAND (IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE - INCLUDE ANNULMENTS - USE A SEPARATE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.)

NAME OF SPOUSE *NOT APPLICABLE*

PLACE AND DATE OF MARRIAGE

HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE

LIVING OR DECEASED

DATE OF DECEASE

CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

CITIZENSHIP WHEN ACQUIRED? WHERE?

OCCUPATION LAST EMPLOYER

EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS

MILITARY SERVICE FROM TO BRANCH ON SERVICE

COUNTRY DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT. SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SEC. 4. CHILDREN OR DEPENDENTS (Include partial dependents)

1. NAME NOT APPLICABLE RELATIONSHIP AGE

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS St. & No. City State County

2. NAME RELATIONSHIP AGE

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS St. & No. City State County

3. NAME RELATIONSHIP AGE

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS St. & No. City State County

SEC. 5. FATHER (Give the same information for stepfather and/or guardian on a separate sheet)

FULL NAME JOHN BENJAMIN

LIVING OR DECEASED LIVING DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE

PRESENT, OR, LAST, ADDRESS ST. PAUL ST, BALTIMORE-18-MD-USA

DATE OF BIRTH 21 NOV 1893 PLACE OF BIRTH CENTREVILLE, MARYLAND USA

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY N/A

CITIZENSHIP USA WHEN ACQUIRED? BIRTH WHERE?

OCCUPATION AUTO DEALER LAST EMPLOYER EAST END AUTO CO-BALTIMOR!

EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS PULASKI HWY, BALTIMORE, MD

MILITARY SERVICE FROM 1915 TO 1919 BRANCH OF SERVICE ARMY AVIATION

COUNTRY USA, GT. BRITAIN DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN.

NONE

SEC. 6. MOTHER (Give the same Information for stepmother on a separate sheet)

FULL NAME ADRIENNE MARGUERITE

LIVING OR DECEASED DECEASED DATE OF DECEASE 5 DEC 1947 CAUSE CANCER

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS HILFORD AV, BALTIMORE, MD, USA

DATE OF BIRTH 14 AUG 1900 PLACE OF BIRTH ROMANS, DROME, FRANCE

CITIZENSHIP USA WHEN ACQUIRED? 1921 (?) WHERE? BALTO, MD, USA

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY NOV. 1919 - NEW YORK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

OCCUPATION MILLINERY LAST EMPLOYER EMPORIUM WORLD HILLY CO.
BUYER
EMPLOYER'S OR OWN BUSINESS ADDRESS UNKNOWN, CHICAGO, ILL, USA
MILITARY SERVICE FROM NONE TO BRANCH OF SERVICE
COUNTRY
NONE
DETAILS OF OTHER GOVT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREION.
COUNTRY
NONE

SEC. 7. BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including half, step, and adopted brothers and sisters)

1. FULL NAME HENRI ADRIEN AGE 23
   PRESENT ADDRESS SIMMONS AV, BAIMORE, MD, USA-USA

2. FULL NAME AGE
   PRESENT ADDRESS

3. FULL NAME AGE
   PRESENT ADDRESS

4. FULL NAME AGE
   PRESENT ADDRESS

5. FULL NAME AGE
   PRESENT ADDRESS

SEC. 8. FATHER-IN-LAW

FULL NAME NOT APPLICABLE
LIVING OR DECEASED DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE
PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS
DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH
IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

CITIZENSHIP WHEN ACQUIRED? WHERE?

OCCUPATION LAST EMPLOYER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SEC. 9. MOTHER-IN-LAW

FULL NAME NOT APPLICABLE

LIVING OR DECEASED DATE OF DECEASE CAUSE

PRESENT, OR LAST, ADDRESS

DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH

IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. INDICATE DATE AND PLACE OF ENTRY

CITIZENSHIP WHEN ACQUIRED? WHERE?

OCCUPATION LAST EMPLOYER

SEC. 10. RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION, WHO EITHER LIVE ABROAD OR WHO ARE NOT CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES:

1. NAME HENRY FRENCH RELATIONSHIP GREAT-UNCLE AGE 65(7)

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS 27 RUE EDITH CAVELL, NICE, FRANCE

2. NAME CHARLES GRAND GERARD RELATIONSHIP SECOND COUSIN AGE 55(1)

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS 96 CTIS ELEVATORS, BUENOS AIRESAR

3. NAME RELATIONSHIP AGE

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS

SEC. 11. RELATIVES BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF THE U.S/OR OF A FORSION GOVERNMENT.

1. NAME CMDR. ROBT LEE RELATIONSHIP COUSIN AGE 30

CITIZENSHIP USA ADDRESS N.O.B., NORFOLK, VIRGINIA

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

2. NAME RELATIONSHIP AGE

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)

3. NAME RELATIONSHIP AGE

CITIZENSHIP ADDRESS

TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (IF KNOWN)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

## SEC. 12. EDUCATION

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL MI DONOGH SCH ADDRESS PIKESVILLE, MD, USA
DATES ATTENDED 1930-34-37 GRADUATE? YES
HIGH SCHOOL LEYDA HIGH, MONTREALH, ADDRESS MONTREAL, QUE, CANADA
DATEN ATTENDED 1937-1940 GRADUATE? YES
COLLEGE SIR GEOLWILLIAMS COLL, ADDRESS MONTREAL, QUE, CANADA
DATSS ATTENDED 1940-1942 DEGREE NONE
COLLEGE U OF MICHIGAN ADDRESS ANN ARBOR, MICH, USA
DATES ATTENDED 1945 (SEE P13) DEOREE B.A.

## SEC. 13. MILITARY, NAVAL OR OTHER GOVT SERVICE - U.S. OR FOREIGN

COUNTRY USA SERVICE ARMY RANK 1/LT DATE OF SERVICE FEB 1943-OCT1948
LAST STATION GHO FEC-TOKYO, JAPAN SERIAL No. 0-937200 TYPE OF Ducbarge HONORABLE
REMARKS: WHILE ENLISTED, SERIAL WAS 31316266

SELECTIVE SERVICE BOARD NUMBER 5-A ADDRESS HARTFORD, CONN.

IF INDEFERRED GIVE REASON

## SEC. 14. CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PAST 15 YEARS. ACCOUNT
FOR ALL PERIODS. INCLUDE CASUAL EMPΙΟΥΜΕΝΤ. INCLUDE ALSO FERIO003
OF UNEMPLOYMENT. GIVE ADDRESSES AND STATE WHAT YOU DID DURING
PERIODS OF UNEMPLOYMENT, LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.

FROM 15 AUG 45 TO 30 SEP 48

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY DEPT / ARMY
ADDRESS CCD-GHO-FEC APO 500 POSTMASTER SAN FRANCISCO, U
KIND OF BUSINESS CIVIL CENSORSHIP NAME OF SUPERVISOR ROBT SPAULDING
TITLE ON JOB LIAISON OFFICER SALARY $ 251 PER MONTH
YOUR DUTIES INTELLIGENCE ANALYST; REPORTS COORDINATOR WRITER
REASONS FOR LEAVING RETURN TO USA FOR SEPARADON FROM ARMY

FROM 1 APR 45 TO 15 AUG 48

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY DEPT/ARMY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

(MILITARY)
ADDRESS CCD-GHG-FEC APO 500 POSTMASTER SAN FRANCISCO, US
KIND OF BUSINESS CIVIL CENSORSHID NAME OF SUPERVISOR VAKENT MERCOVA
TITLE OF JOB DEPUTY CHIEF, NEWS AGENCY SALARY: 251 PER MONTH
YOUR DUTIES Asst chief of principal Allied press censorship bureau
REASONS FOR LEAVING CENSORSHIP SECTION ELIMINATED in Japan.
FROM 1 NOV 26 TO 31 MAR 48
EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY DEPT /ARMY

(MILITARY)
ADDRESS CCD-GHQ-FEC APO 309-POSTMASTER-SAN FRANCISCO, USA
KIND OF BUSINESS CIVIL CENSORSHIP NAMES OF SUPERVISOR ROBT. SPAULDING
TITLE OF JOB CHIEF CENSORSHIP SUB-STA SALARY $ 321 PER MONTH
YOUR DUTIES Operati field censorship surveillance detachment.
REASONS FOR LEAVING TRANSFERRED TO HR IN TOKYO
FROM 15 MAR 4 to 15 AUG 46
EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY DEPT /ARMY

ADDRESS ARMY LANGUAGE SCHOOL PRESIDIO, FT. SNELLING, MINN, USA
KIND OF BUSINESS CIVIL AFFAIRS ING NAME OF SUPERVISOR YUTAKA MURAKATA
TITLE OF JOB RESEARCH EDITOR SALARY Army PER SET.
YOUR DUTIES Revised Army Manuals, Prepared Civil Affairs courses.
REASONS FOR LEAVING COMMISSIONED, TRANSFERRED TO JAPAN
FROM NOV 1941 TO JUL 1945

EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY V. KEATON CO, LTD,
ADDRESS ST. CATHERINE ST, MONTREAL, QUE, CANADA
KIND OF BUSINESS DEPT. STORE NAME OF SUPERVISOR F.T. CLAYDON
TITLE OF JOB PHOTOGRAPHIC SALESMAN SALARY $ 20 PER WEEK
YOUR DUTIES Sold cameras and photo supplies
REASONS FOR LEAVING WAS PART-TIME JOB ACCEPTED WHILE IN COLLEGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SEC. 15. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY FOSITION?
HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO
EXPLAIN? GIVE DETAILS:

NOT APPLICABLE

SEC. 16. GIVE FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCES - IN THE U.S. - WHO KNOW YOU INTI
MATELY (GIVE RESIDENCE AND BUSINESS ADDRESSES WHERE POSSIBLE)

1. CAPT. GORDON WALLACE
   BUS. ADD. AIS-PRESIDIO/ MONTEREY CAL.
   RES. ADD. 2160 COOLEY, PALO ALTO CAL.

2. MR. GEORGE MOORE
   BUS. ADD. U/CALIFORNIA BERKELEY, CAL.
   RES. ADD. 571 NORTH, OAKLAND CAL.

3. MR. JOHN CHEATHAM
   BUS. ADD. 117 E. PATRICK FREDERICK, MD.
   RES. ADD. 101 E. CHURCH FREDERICK MD.

4. MR. T.G. DRISCOLL
   BUS. ADD. 1311 KST. NW/WASH. DC.
   RES. ADD. 2325 S. ROYAL ALEXANDRIA VA.

5. MR. R.H. KUNZMAN
   BUS. ADD. UP BUREAU DES MOINES IOWA
   RES. ADD. UNA

SEC.-17. NAMES OF FIVE PERSONS WHO KNOW YOU SOCIALLY IN THE UNITED STATES -
NOT REFERENCES, SUPERVISORS OR EMPLOYERS - (Give residence and business ad-
dresses where posible.)

1. MR. GEORGE FINNEY
   BUS. ADD. DEPT IAF WASHINGTON DC.
   RES. ADD. 2310 VALLEY DR. ALEXANDRIA VA.

2. DR. MORRIS CRANE
   BUS. ADD. BALTIMORE AV. PHILADELPHIA PA.
   RES. ADD.

3. MR. BRADFORD COOLIDGE
   BUS. ADD. DEPT/STATE WASHINGTON DC.
   RES. ADD.

4. MISS FLORENCE MIDDLETON
   BUS. ADD. NONE
   RES. ADD. 11 ARNOLDALE W. HARTFORD, CONN.

5. MR. ANTHONY SAS
   BUS. ADD. UNK
   RES. ADD. 503 E. 27TH BALTIMORE, MD.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SEC. 18. GIVE THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR LAST NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THIS U.S. - (Give residence and business addresses where possible.)

1. MR. FRANK DUCHARME BUS. ADD. TRAVELERS INS. HARTFORD CONN.
   RES. ADD. 26 LILLEY W. HARTFORD CONN.
2. MR. JAMES KNOY BUS. ADD. 6. FOX CO. HARTFORD, CONN.
   RES. ADD. UNK
3. MRS. LOUIS FRANKLIN BUS. ADD. ALBERT STELIER HARTFORD, CONN.
   RES. ADD. UNK

SEC. 19. FINANCIAL BACKGROUND

A. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY? YES IF NOT, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME

B. NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF BANKS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS BALTIMORE NATIONAL BANK HIGHLAND TOWN BRANCH, BALTIMORE, MD.

C. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY? NO

D. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES - IN THE U.S.

1. NAME LEE'S INC. ADDRESS 2424 EASTERN AV, BALTIMORE MD.
2. NAME MONTGOMERY WARD ADDRESS 2411 W. AS. COKLAND 16, CAL.
3. NAME ADDRESS

SEC. 20. RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

FROM 1933 TO 1937 PRESSTMAN ST BALTIMORE-MD - USA
FROM 1937 TO 1939 HARVARD AV- MONTREAL-QUE-CANADA
FROM 1939 TO 1942 MOUNTAIN ST-MONTREAL-QUE-CANADA
FROM 1942 TO 1942 LILLEY RD-W. HARTFORD - CONN- USA
FROM 1942 TO 1942 MILITARY SERVICE
FROM 1948 TO PRESENT ST. PAUL ST- BALTIMORE, MD, USA

FROM TO

FROM TO

REC. 21. RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL OUTSIDE OF THE UNITED STATES

A. FROM JAN 1937 TO SEP 1937 PARIS FRANCE VISIT
FROM JUL 1939 TO JUL 1939 NIAGARA PENINSULA CANADA VISIT
FROM SEP 1937 TO JUL 1939 MONTREAL CANADA RESIDED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

FROM OCT 1944 TO JAN 1945 NORTHERN EUROPE WAR SERVICE
FROM SEP 1946 TO OCT 1946 TOKYO, SENDAI JAPAN MIL.OCCUPATION
FROM ________ TO ________

B. LAST U.S. PASSPORT-NUMBER, DATE, AND PLACE OF ISSUE: UNKNOWN
HOW MANY OTHER U.S. PASSPORTS HAVE YOU HAD? NONE
DATES:

PASSPORTS OF OTHER NATIONS:

SEC. 22. CLUBS, SOCIETIES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
LIST NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF ALL CLUBS, SOCIETIES, PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES, EMPLOYEE GROUPS, ORGANIZATIONS OF ANY KIND (INCLUDE MEMBERSHIP IN, OR SUPPORT OF, ANY ORGANIZATION HAVING HEADQUARTERS OR BRANCH IN A FOREIGN COUNTRY) TO WHICH YOU BELONG OR HAVE BELONGED:

1. AMERICAN VETERANS COMMITTEE (MEMBER AT LARGE)
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: NOV 1945- JAN 1948
2. RESERVE OFFICERS ASS'N WASHINGTON DC USA
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: OCT 1948- PRESENT
3. ________
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ________
4. ________
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ________
5. ________
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ________
6. ________
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ________
7. ________
   DATES OF MEMBERSHIP: ________


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# SEC. 23. GENERAL QUALIFICATIONS

A. FORSION LANGUAGES (STATE DEGRES OR PROPICIENCY AS "SLIGHT "FAIR" OR "FLUENT)

LANGUAGE *JAPANESE* SPEAK *FLUENT* READ *FAIR* WRITE *FAIR*

LANGUAGE *FRENCH* SPEAK *FLUENT* READ *FLUENT* WRITE *FLUENT*

LANGUAGE SPEAK READ WRITE

B. LIST ALL SPORTS AND HOBBIES WHICH INTEREST YOU: INDICATE DZORSE OF PROFI-
CRENCY IN EACH:

SWIMMING, SKIING, HORSEMANSHIP, FOOTBALL - GOOD.

BASEBALL ICE HOCKEY LACROSSE, VOLLEYBALL, BATHINTON- FAIR.

PHOTOGRAPHIC PROCESSES - STRONG. AMATEUR INTEREST.

C. HAVE YOU ANY QUALIFICATIONS, AS A RESULT OF TRAINING OR EXPERIENCE, WHICH
MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION?

HAVE AN ABILITY TO WRITE, EITHER REPORTORIAL OR

EDITORIAL. WHICH MIGHT BE SUITABLE FOR RESEARCH

OR SPECIAL REPORTS WRITING.

D. LIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO
WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCS 1939:

NONE OTHER THAN DEPT OF ARMY FOR

COMMISSION AS OFFICER.

E. IF. TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAS CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF
YOU, INDICATE BELOW THE NAME OF THAT AGENCY AND TER APPROZIMATE DATE OF
TO INVESTIGATION:

MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIV, WAR DEPT, + FBI

CONDUCTED LOYALTY CHECK SOMETIME BETWEEN

FEB 1947 AND JUN 1947.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SEC. 24. MISCELLANEOUS

A. DO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOCATED; OR ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OR, OR HAVE YOU SUPPORTED ANY POLITICAL PARTY OR ORGANIZATION WHICH ADVOCATES THE OVERTHROW OF OUR CONSTITUTIONAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT IN THE UNITED STATES?
NO

IF "YES", EXPLAIN:

B. DO YOU USE, OR HAVE YOU USED, INTOXICANTS?
YES
IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?
OCCASIONAL WINES AND LIQUOR

C. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF LAW OTHER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION? IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT, CITY, STATE, COUNTRY, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE:
NO

D. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN COURT-MARTIALED WHILE A MEMBER OF THE ARMED FORCES? IF ANSWER IS "YES," GIVE DETAILS BELOW:
NO

SEC. 25. PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY:

NAME JOHN B. RELATIONSHIP FATHER
ADDRESS ST. PAUL ST, BALTIMORE MD USA

SEC. 26. YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ALL STATEMENTS MADE HEREIN WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE NOT MENTIONED ABOVE WHICH MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION, WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE. IF NOT, ANSWER "NO."
NO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SEC. 27. I CERTIFY THAT THE FOREGOING ANSWERS ARE TRUE AND CORRECT TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE AND BELIEF, AND I AGREE THAT ANY MISSTATEMENT OR ONNISSION AS TO A MATERIAL FACT WILL CONSTITUTE GROUNDS FOR IMMEDIATE DISMISSAL OR REJECTION OF MY APPLICATION.

SIGNED AT ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA

Arriette C. Driscoll

DATE 25 NOV 1948

CASASIN

USE THE FOLLOWING PAGES FOR EXTRA DETAILS. NUMBER ACCORDING TO THE NUMBER OF THE QUESTION TO WHICH THEY RELATE. SIGN YOUR NAME AT THE END OF THE ADDED MATERIAL. IP ADDITIONAL SPACE IS REQUIRED USE EXTRA PAGES THE SAME SIZE AS THESE AND SIGN SACH SUCH PAGE

14. - I HAVE NEVER HELD A FULL-TIME CIVILIAN JOB, SINCE I ENTERED THE ARMY DIRECTLY FROM COLLEGE.

19. - 1 HAVE NEVER BOUGHT ANYTHING ON CREDIT. THEREFORE, 1 HAVE LISTED THREE: CONCERNS WITH WHICH I HAVE TRANSACTED NORMAL BUSINESS.

12. - I ACQUIRED SUFFICIENT CREDITS FROM THE ARMY JAPANESE SCHOOL AT THE U OF MICHIGAN TO RECEIVE A B.A. DEGREE, IN ABSENTIA, WHILE STILL ON ACTIVE SERVICE.

FROM SEP 1942 TO DEC 1942 I COMPLETED ONE SEMESTER AT TRINITY COLLEGE, HARTFORD, CONN.

Casasin


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION Conc. 6 Jan. 1555 ruc

1. NAME (WISE-NAME-ONE GIVER NAME, INITIALISI, AND SUANAME)

Coasen 2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. JOURNALDRACTION NO. 4: CATE
20 Jan. 1926 11 Jan. 1955

This is to notify you of the following action afecting your employment:

5. NATURE OF ACTION (USE STANDARD TERMINOLOGTI)

PROMOTION 6. ERSECTIVE CATE 7. CIVIL SERVICE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
S.0.D. 50 USCA 403.3
16 Jan 1955

FROM TO

Arch Ops Officer (Br. Ch) BC-171-13 8. POSITION TITLE Area Ops Officer ECF-189-14

CS-0136.01-13 $3360.00 per amun 9. SERVICE. SERIES. CS-0136.01-14 $9600.00 per annum
GRADE, SALARY
DDP/SR 10. ORGANIZATIONAL DDP/SR
DESIGNATIONS Far East Area
SR/5 Japan:
Office of the Chief

Washington, D. C. 11. HEADQUARTERS Tokyo, Japan

FIELD X DEPARTMENTAL 12. FIELD OR DEPT'L X FIELD DEPARTMENTAL

13. VETERAN S PREFERENCE 14. POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION
    NONE WWII OPREA S-PT. 10-POINT NEW VICE 1. A. ALAL. SD-FI
    DISAD OFNER

15 16. 17. APPROPRIATION 18. SUBJECT 10 C. S. 19. DATE OF APPOINT- 20. LEGAL RESIDENCE
SEX RACE FROM RETIREMENT ACT MENT AFFIDAVITS CLAIMED PROVED
(VES-NO) (ACCESSIONS ONLY)
STATE:
MW 5-3400-20
5-3400-55-015 Yes

21. REMARKS: This action is subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations and may be
    subject to investigation and approval by the United States Civil Service Commission.
    The action may be corrected or canceled if not in accordance with all requirements.

Subject to approved medical clearance prior to being sent overscas.

"Transfer TO Unvouchered funds FROM-Vouchered funds."

> [Figure: Stamp that says "POSTED JAN 17 1955" with a signature]

TRANCE PERFORMANCE RATING:

SEORSEE MELOON

outy Assistant Director for or

4. PERSONNEL FOLDER COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. NAME (MR., MISS, OR MRS. GIVE NAME INITIALISI, AND SURNAME)

MR. Casasin 2. DATE OF BIRTH 20 Jan 1924 3. JOURNAL ON ACTION NO. rvs 4. DATE 19 Jan. 1955

This is to notify you of the following action affecting your employments

5. NATURE OF ACTION (USE STANDARD TERMINOLOGY)

PROMOTION (AMENDMENT)

6. EFFECTIVE DATE

B.O.B.

16 Jan 1955

7. CIVIL SERVICE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50 UBCA 403 J

FROM

8. POSITION TITLE

TO

Area Ops Officer (Br. Ch) BC-171-13

Area Ops Officer BCF-189-14

CB-0136.01-13 $8560.00 per annum

CB-0136.01-14 $9600.00 per annum

DDP/SR

SR/5

9. SERVICE, SERIES,
   GRADE, SALARY

DDP/SR

Far East Area

Japan

Office of the Chief

10. ORGANIZATIONAL
    DESIGNATIONS

Washington, D. C.

11. HEADQUARTERS

Tokyo, Japan

FIELD

DEPARTMENTAL

12. FIELD OR DEPT'L

FIELD

DEPARTMENTAL

13. VETERAN'S PREFERENCE

NONE WWII OTHER 5-PT. 10-POINT

DISAB. OTHER

14. POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

NEW VICE I. A. REAL.

SD-DI

15. 16. 17. APPROPRIATION

SEX RACE

FROM

5-3400-20

TO

5-3400-55-015

18. SUBJECT TO C. S.

RETIREMENT ACT
(YES-NO)

19. DATE OF APPOINT.
    MENT AFFIDAVITS
    (ACCESSION ONLY)

20. LEGAL RESIDENCE

CLAIMED PROVED

STATE:

Yes

21. REMARKS: This action is subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations and may be
    subject to investigation and approval by the United States Civil Service Commission.
    The action may be corrected or canceled if not in accordance with all requirements.

*This action amends Item #9, on the "from" side, on Notification dated 11 Jan. 1955,
to show the correct salary, previously shown as $3360.00 per annum.

Subject to approved medical clearance prior to being sent overseas.

"Transfer TO Unvouchered funds FROM Vouchered funds."

![photo of the word folded stamped with a date stamp reading 1/20/55]

ANCE PERFORMANCE RATING:

Deputy Assistant Director

![personnel folder copy stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# PAY ROLL CHANGE DATA

| BASE PAY | OVERTIME | GROSS PAY | RET. | TAX | BOND | F.I.C.A. | NET PAY |
| -------- | -------- | --------- | ---- | --- | ---- | -------- | ------- |
|          |          |           |      |     |      |          |         |
|          |          |           |      |     |      |          |         |

S-4940

AR. 1955
ADJUSTED TO:
EFFECTIVE: 13 MAR.
FURSUIT TO DEI DIRECTIVE

Periodic stap Incresse

Effective date
Jan 55

Date last
increment
equivalent
Payment
5 Jul 53

Old salary rate
$3360.00

New salary rate
$8560.00

Appropriation(s)
SR

Prepared by
9 Nov 54

Audited by

ORM NO. 1126d-Revised by Comp GOA. U S. General Regulations No. 102

PAY ROLL CHANGE SLIP--PERSONNEL COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 6B and 7 unless otherwise instructed. If applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data on reverse.

1. NAME (Mr.-Miss-Mrs. Give first name, initial(s), and surname)

MR. Cassasin

2. DATE OF BIRTH

20 Jan. 1924

3. REQUEST NO.

4. DATE OF REQUEST

26 Sept. 156

5. NATURE OF ACTION REQUESTED A. PERSONNEL (Specify whether appointment, promotion, separation, etc.).

PSASSIGNMENT

6. EFFECTIVE DATE A. PROPOSED:

7. C.S OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

8. POSITION (Specify whether establish, change grade or title, etc.)

B. APPROVED:

21 OCT

FROM-

Area Ops Officer BCF-189-14
GS-0135.01-14 $10,535.00 p.a.

8. POSITION TITLE AND NUMBER

9. SERVICE, GRADE, AND SALARY

1A ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

TO-

Area Ops Officer BCF-189-14
GS-0136.01-14 $10,535.00 p.a.

DDP/SR
Far East Area
Japan
Office of the Chief
Tokyo, Japan

11. HEADQUARTERS

12. FIELD OR DEPARTMENTAL

XXX FIELD

DEPARTMENTAL (D)

A REMARKS (Use reverse if necessary)

RE-SLOTTING FOR NEW APPROVED T/0.

B. REQUESTED BY

Robert D. Lovelace

C. FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL (Name and telephone extension)

Phyllis M. Landrum Ext. 4407

D. REQUEST APPROVED BY

Signaturer

Title:

13. VETERAN PREFERENCE

14 POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

NEW VICE I. A. REAL

NONE WWII OTHER 5 PT.
10 POINT DISAB OTHER

15. SEX
    M

16. APPROPRIATION

FROM:
7-3100-55-015

TO 7-3400-55-015

17. SUBJECT TO C. 5. RETIREMENT ACT (YES-NO)

Yes

18. DATE OF APPOINT- MENT AFFIDAVITS (ACCESSIONS ONLY)

SD: DICK

19. LEGAL RESIDENCE
    CLAIMED PROVED

STATE:

20. STANDARD FORM 50 REMARKS

APPROVED BY

FI CAREER SERVICE (GND), FI/CMO
R.A.Skeels

21. CLEARANCES

INITIAL OR SIGNATURE

DATE

REMARKS:

A
B. CEIL. OR POS CONTROL

C. CLASSIFICATION

D PLACEMENT OR EMPL

E.

APPROVED BY

USED IN LIEU OF SF50

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

POSTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

14-00000

1. EMP. SERIAL NO.

506102

2. NAME

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

3. ASSIGNED ORGAN.
   DDP/SR

4. FUNDS
   UV

5. ALLOTMENT

6. OLD SALARY RATE

7. NEW SALARY RATE

| GRADE | STEP | SALARY  | LAST EFFECTIVE DATE |     | SERJE | STEP | SALARY | EFFECTIVE DATE |     |     |     |
| ----- | ---- | ------- | ------------------- | --- | ----- | ---- | ------ | -------------- | --- | --- | --- |
|       |      |         | NO.                 | DA. | YR.   |      |        |                | NO. | DA. | YR. |
| 14    | 2    | $10,535 | 07                  | 15  | 56    | 14   | 3      | $10,750        | 01  | 12  | 58  |

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER

8. NUMBER OF HOURS LWOP

9. CHECK ONE

☐ NO EXCESS LWOP

☐ EXCESS LWOP

IF EXCESS LEAVE LWOP, CHECK FOLLOWING:

☐ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

☐ IN LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

10. INITIALS OF CLERK

11. AUDITED BY

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12. PROJECTED SALARY RATE AND EFFECTIVE DATE

13. REMARKS

| GRADE | STEP | SALARY | NO. | DA. | YR. |
| ----- | ---- | ------ | --- | --- | --- |
|       |      |        |     |     |     |

L

7-4-10

4005

14. AUTHENTICATION

CF

> [Figure] The figure is a circular stamp that reads C.M. STEWART in a circular pattern.

2.2

THK 125

FORM NO 5600

1 MAR 56

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - AUTHENTICATION

SECRET

PERSONNEL FOLDER

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

GENERAL SCHEDULE SALARY INCREASE RETROACTIVELY EFFECTIVE
12 JANUARY 1958 AUTHORIZED BY P. L. 85 - 462 AND OCI
DIRECTIVE. SALARY AS OF 15 JUNE 1958 ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS

NAME SERIAL GRADE-STEP OLD SALARY NEW SALARY

Casasin 506102 GS-14-3 $10,750 $11,935

GORDON N. STEWART
/S/ DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

SECRET



| EMP. SERIAL NO.    | NAME               | SECRET (WHEN FILLED IN) | ASSIGNED ORGAN.                 | FUNDS | ALLOTMENT |         |                            |
| ------------------ | ------------------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------- | ----- | --------- | ------- | -------------------------- |
| 506102             | Casasin            |                         | DDP/SR                          | 8 UV  |           |         |                            |
| 6. OLD SALARY RATE | 7. NEW SALARY RATE |                         |                                 |       |           |         |                            |
| GRADE              | STEP               | SALARY                  | LAST EFFECTIVE DATE MO. DA. YR. | GRADE | STEP      | SALARY  | EFFECTIVE DATE MO. DA. YR. |
| .14                | 2                  | $10,535                 | 07 15 56                        | 14    | 3         | $10,750 | 01 12 58                   |
| REMARKS            |                    |                         |                                 |       |           |         |                            |



CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE SERVICE AND CONDUCT OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE ARE SATISFACTORY.

TYPED, OR PRINTED, NAME OF SUPERVISOR DATE SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR

BELIC, GEORGE 15 Jan 1958 George Belic

PERIODIC STEP INCREASE - CERTIFICATION PERSONNEL FOLDER

FORM NO. 560
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF P. L. 86-569. AND DCI MEMO DATED
1 AUGUST 1955, SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

SD NAME SERIAL ORGN GR-ST OLD SALARY NEW SALARY

DI 506102 48.40 GS-14 4 $12,075 $12,990

Casiren

/S/ EMMETT D. ECHOLS
DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)


| 1. EMP. SERIAL NO. | 2. NAME | 3. ASSIGNED ORGAN. | 4. FUNDS | 5. ALLOTMENT |
| ------------------ | ------- | ------------------ | -------- | ------------ |
| 506102             | Casiren | DDP/SR 10          | UV       |              |


| 6. OLD SALARY RATE |      |         | 7. NEW SALARY RATE  |       |      |         |                |
| ------------------ | ---- | ------- | ------------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- | -------------- |
| GRADE              | STEP | SALARY  | LAST EFFECTIVE DATE | GRADE | STEP | SALARY  | EFFECTIVE DATE |
|                    |      |         | MO.  DA.  YR.       |       |      |         | MO.  DA.  YR.  |
| GS 14              | 3    | $11,835 | 01   12   58        | GS 14 | 4    | $12,075 | 07   12   59   |


3. CHECK ONE
* EXCESS LOOP
* NO EXCESS LOOP

IF EXCESS LWOP, CHECK FOLLOING:
* IN PAY STATUS AT END OF BALTING PERIOD
* IN LWOP STATUS AT EST OF WAITING PERIOD

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER

8. NUMBER OF HOURS LWOP

10. INITIALS OF CLERK 11. AUDITED BY

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

| 12. PROJECTED SALARY BATE AND EFFECTIVE DATE | 13. REMARKS |        |             |        |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ------ | ----------- | ------ |
| GRADE                                        | STEP        | SALARY | MO. DA. YR. | 4 742. |


14. AUTHENTICATION

![signature of C.M.STEWART]

C.M.STEWART
PERIODIC STEP INCREASE AUTHENTICATION

SECRET PERSONNEL FOLDER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

ARE: 30 SEPT 1960

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST MIDDLE)

006102 Cavarin

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO VOUCHERDO FUNDS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATERIAT OF EMPLOYMENT

10 102 160 REGULAR

| FUNDS | V TO V  | V TO CF  |
| ----- | ------- | -------- |
| X     | CF TO V | CF TO CF |

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

1234 1000-1000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 12. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
   DOP SR
   SR 6
   OFFICE OF THE CHIEF

11. POSITION TITLE
    WASH., D. C.

12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER BR CH 0050 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (CS, WB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 14 4 12990

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF FESSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ 21 OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24 Megirs. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE CODE NUMERIC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE Code MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

16 10 60300 SR 75013 1 01 20 24

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL REFERENCE 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION DATA CODE 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY REQ. NO. 34. SEX

MO. DA. YR. CODE TYPE MO. DA. YR. EOD DATA

| 1 - CSC  | 35. VET. PREFERENCE | 36. SERV. COMP. DATE | 37. LONG. COMP. DATE | 38. MIL. SERV. CREDIT/LCD | 39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE |
| -------- | ------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------- | ---------------------------- |
| 3 - FICA | CODE                | MO. DA. YR.          | MO. DA. YR.          | CODE                      | 0 - WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE  |
| 5 - NONE | 0 - NONE            |                      |                      | 1 - YES                   | 1                            |
|          | 1 - PT.             |                      |                      | 2 - NO                    |                              |
|          | 2 - 10.PT           |                      |                      |                           |                              |

| 41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA    | 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA | 44. STATE TAX DATA     |               |      |                         |
| --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------- | ---- | ----------------------- |
| CODE                                    | FORM EXECUTED CODE                  | NO TAX EXEMPTIONS CODE | FORM EXECUTED | CODE | NO TAX STATE CODE EXEMP |
| 0 - NO PREVIOUS SERVICE                 | 1 - YES                             | 1 - YES                | 1 - YES       |      |                         |
| 1 - NO BREAK IN SERVICE                 | 2 - NO                              | 2 - NO                 | 2 - NO        |      |                         |
| 2 - BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 12 MOS) |                                     |                        |               |      |                         |
| 3 - BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 12 MOS) |                                     |                        |               |      |                         |

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

E.D.ECHOLES

Form 1150 Obsolete Previous Editions SECRET
6-60 G 10/18/60


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# Pay Change Notification

Serial No: 1314-1000-10

006102

Name: Carim

Cost Center Number: 60 300

LWOP Hours: 7

| OLD SALARY RATE |      |         |               | NEW SALARY RATE |      |         |                |
| --------------- | ---- | ------- | ------------- | --------------- | ---- | ------- | -------------- |
| Grade           | Step | Salary  | Last Eff Date | Grade           | Step | Salary  | Effective Date |
| GS 14           | 5    | $13.250 | 01/08/61      | GS 14           | 6    | $13,510 | 07/08/62       |

Remarks and Authentication:

/ NO EXCESS LWOP. / EXCESS LWOP

/ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ IN LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

Clerks Initials

Audited by...

Form 560

Secret (WHEN FILLED IN)

Emp. Serial No: 006102

Name: Carim

Assigned Organ: EDP/SR 7

Funds: V-20

Allotment: 1

|       | OLD SALARY RATE |        |                     |       |      | NEW SALARY RATE |                |     |     |
| ----- | --------------- | ------ | ------------------- | ----- | ---- | --------------- | -------------- | --- | --- |
| Grade | Step            | Salary | Last Effective Date | Grade | Step | Salary          | Effective Date |     |     |
| GS-14 | 4               | $12990 | 07 12 59            | GS-14 | 5    | $13250          | 01 08 61       |     |     |

To be completed by the Office of Comptroller

Check one: EXCESS LWOP

Number of Hours LWOP:

If excess LWOP, check following:

In pay status at end of waiting period

In LWOP status at end of waiting period

To be completed by the Office of Personnel

Initials of Clerk

Audited by

Type of Action:  P.S.I. L.S.I. PAY ADJUSTMENT

Remarks

Authentication

Official Personnel Folder

E.D.ECHOLS

Form 560


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

BAS: 16 AUG 62

SECRET
(When Filled In)

OEF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

006102

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RESIGNATION

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

08 04 52 REGULAR

6. FUNDS 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

X
TO V TO CF
3234 1000 1000
CF TO V CF TO CF

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/SR
SR/6.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER BR CH 0050 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 14 6 13510

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRACE 27. DATE OF LEAVE
    CODE CODE NUMERIC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

45 10 01 20 24

28. WIE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE CODE DATA CODE TYPE
    REQ. NO.
    MO. DA. YR. 1. CSC MO. DA. YR.
    EOD DATA
    B00091

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CAR RESV 0. WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE
    TEMP
1. YES

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
0. NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1. YES 1. YES EXEMP
1. NO BREAK IN SERVICE 2. NO 2. NO
2. BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS.)
3. BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS.)

SIGNATURE ON OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature] POSTED

![signature] 8.20-62

E.D.ECHOLS

LLG 8/16/62 SECRET (When Filled In)

FORM Use Previous
4-62 1150 Edition


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

13 September 1960
(Date)
File No. K-1328

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT:

1.  Cover arrangements have been completed for the above-named Subject.

2.  Effective 12 September 1960, it is requested that your records be properly blocked to deny Subject's current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

3.  Operating component must take necessary action to block telephone locator by submitting the Personnel Information Card, "Office File Copy," Form No. 642, to Machine Records Division, Office of the Comptroller, Room 107 Curie Hall, Attention: Miss Werkenbach.

Paul P. Cima
HARRY W. LITTLE, JR.
Chief, Central Cover Division

cc: SSD/OS
Operating Division - SR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

REQUESTING OFFICE: Fill in items 1 through 12 and A through D except 63 and 7 unless otherwise instructed. If applicable, obtain resignation and fill in separation data en reverse.

1. NAME (Mr.-Mrs.-Miss-One given name, initial(s) and surname)

2. DATE OF Birth

3. REQUEST NO.

4. DATE OF REQUEST

Casasaita

MR

20 Jan 1924

13 Dec 54

5. NATURE OF ACTION REQUESTED

6. EFFECTIVE DATE
   A. PROPOSED

7. C/S CROTHER
   LEGAL AUTHORITY

A. PERSONNEL (Specify whether appointment, promotion, separation, etc.)

PROMOTION

5 Tan. '55

B. POSITION (Specify whether establish, change grade or title, etc.)

16 Jun 1955

FROM:

8. POSITION TITLE AND
   NUMBER

TO:

Area Ops Officer (Br. Ch.) EC-171-13

9. SERVICE, GRADE, AND
   SALARY

Area Ops Officer ECF-189-14
GS-0136.01-14 $9600.00 p.a

GS-0136.01-13 $8360.00 p.a.

10. ORGANIZATIONAL
    DESIGNATION

DDP/SR

DDP/SR
Far East Area

SP/5

Japan

Washington, D.C.

11. HEADQUARTERS

Office of the Chief
Tokyo, Japan

FIELD

DEPARTMENTAL

12. FIELD OR DEPARTMENTAL

A. REMARKS (Use reverse if necessary)

PLEASE TRANSFER FROM VOUCHERED TO CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS. $5560.00.

Memo stating why fitness report is not necessary. 2

8. REQUESTED BY (Name and title)

9. REQUESTED APPROVED BY

W. Muenster

Signatures

Robert Sinterfel

& FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CALL (Name and telephone extension)

Title:

Phyllis H. Landrum Ext. 3718

DD/P. Admin.

13. VETERAN PREFERENCE

14. POSITION CLASSIFICATION ACTION

NONE

WAS

OTHER

5-PT.

10-POINT

NEW

VICE

I. A.

REAL

DISAB

OTHER

X

X

15. SEX

16. RACE

17. APPROPRIATION

18. SUBJECT TO C. S.
    RETIREMENT ACT
    (YES-NO)

S2FI
19. DATE OF APPOINT-
MENT AFFIDAVITS
(ACCESSIONS ONLY)

20. LEGAL RESIDENCE

CLAIMED

PROVED

STATE:

FROM: 5-3400-20
TO: 5-3400-55-015

Yes

21. STANDARD FORM 52 REMARKS

Effective date decline dati per
Jas. W. review L5-1-11-55

Conc. by Ashworth 1-6-55

rev. 1-11-55

22. CLEARANCES

INITIAL OR SIGNATURE

DATE

REMARKS.

A.

B. CEIL OR POS. CONTROL

1/3 L.Gen

APPROVED BY

FI CAREER SERVICE BOARD

C. CLASSIFICATION

MA

D. PLACEMENT OR EMPL

DEC 21 1954

E.

F. APPROVED BY

Ropes, Celack

DATE: DEC 21 1954

1-7-55

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

NAME OF EMPLOYEE (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)
Casuren

DATE OF BIRTH
Unk

CASE OR CLAIM NUMBER
52-201

There is on file in the Casualty Affairs Branch, Benefits and Casualty Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim File on the above named employee for an illness, injury, or death incurred on 4 Feb 1958

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE OF NOTICE
15 July 1958

SIGNATURE OF BCD REPRESENTATIVE
![signature]

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

NAME OF EMPLOYEE (Lent-First-Middle).
NAME AND RELATIONSHIP IN DEPENDENT
CLAIM NUMBER

There is on file in the Casualty Affairs Branch, Benefits and Casualty Division, Office of Personnel, an Official Disability Claim File on the above named employee (or his dependent*) for an illness, injury, or death incurred on 3 Alecember 185D...

This notice should be filed in the employee's Official Personnel Folder as a permanent cross-reference to the Official Disability Claim File.

DATE OF NOTICE
SIGNATURE OF BCD REPRESENTATIUN

28 AUG 1959

NOTICE OF OFFICIAL DISABILITY CLAIM FILE

FORM
1.50 1076 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET
(4-21-35)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

Mo Da Ye
09 12 60

1. Serial No.
2. Name (Last First Middle)

UV to V

V to V

UV to UV

6. CS-EOD

Mo Da Ye
006102

3. SCD 4. Date of Birth 5. Ver. Prel. 5. Sex

Mo Da Yr Mo Da Yr

01 20 24

Nane-0. Code
5 P1
10 P12
1 M
7. CSC Relmt. 8. CSC Or Other Legal Authority 10. Apme. Allider. 11. FEGLI 12. LCD 13. MIL SERV.
CREDIT LEO

Mo Da Yr Yes1 Code Mo Da Yr Yes 1 Code
No 2 No 2

# PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

14. Organizational Designations Code 15. Location Of Official Station Station Code
    DDP SR
    FAR EAST AREA
    TOKYO STATION
    TOKYO, JAPAN
    SOVIET BRANCH

16. Dept..Field 17. Position Title 18. Position No. 19. Serv. 20. Occup. Series
    Dopt Code
    Uslld.
    Fron. 3 OPS OFFICER BR CH 189 GS 0136.01
21. Grade & Step 22. Salary. Or Rate 23. SD 24. Date Of Grade 25. PSI Due 26. Appropriation Number

14 4 $ 12,990 D 11 161 55718161 1131 7000 3000

# ACTION

27. Nature Of Action Code 28. Eff. Date 29. Type Of Employee Code 30. Separation Data
    REASSIGNMENT Mo Da. Yr
    TRANSFER OF FUNDS 10 02 60 REGULAR

# PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

31. Organizational Designations Code 32. Location Of Official Station Station Code
    DDP SR
    SR 6
    OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
    WASH., D. C.

33. Dept.-Field Code 34. Position Title 35. Position No. 36. Serv. 37. Occup. Series
    Dept.
    Uilld.
    Fign- OPS OFFICER - BR CH 50 D15 GS 0136.01

38. Grade & Step 39. Salary Or Rate 40. SD 41. Data Of Grade 42. P'l Due 43. Appropriation Number

14 4 $ 12,990 D 1234 1000 1000

# SOURCE OF REQUEST

A. Requested By (Name And Title) A. Request Approved By (Signature And Title)
ANDREW L. BUSBY CH/SR/PERSONNEL
B. For Additional Intemation Call (Name & Telephone Ext.)
E. C. JOHNSON X407

| Clearance         | Signature | Date     | Clearance      | Signature | Date    |
| ----------------- | --------- | -------- | -------------- | --------- | ------- |
| A. Career Board   |           | 9/16/16  | D. Placement   |           |         |
| B. Pos. Control   |           | 10-10-10 | E.             | F.        | 10-15-1 |
| C. Classification |           |          | F. Approved By |           |         |

Remarks: Two copies of this action have been forwarded to the Office of Security.

FORM

12-57 1152a (USE PREVIOUS EDITI SECRET

Routed by
CSPD

10-5-60

W/s file
98
(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

NO ICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

306102 Casas

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RESIGNA ICN

|          |         |     |          |     |
| -------- | ------- | --- | -------- | --- |
| 6. FUNDS | V TO V  | X   | V TO CF  |     |
|          | CF TO V |     | CF TO OF |     |

7. COST-CENTER NA CHARGEABLE 8. CSC'OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

32241

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF CEFICIAL STATION

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFF CER ER CH

12. POSITION NEMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATIO

5

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

US 6:36.0 146 35

18. REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form 1150 Use Previous

4-62 Edition

(4-323)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

REQUEST FOR .ERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER
   006102

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Casasen

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   Resignation

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
   05 04 62 Regular

6. FUNDS
   V TO V
   V TO CF

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE
   3234 1000 1000

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of Personnel)

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
   DDP/SR
   SR/6
   Office of the Chief

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
    Washington, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE
    Ops Officer (Br Ch)

12. POSITION NUMBER
    0050

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
    D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LD, etc.)
    GS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
    0136.01

16. GRADE AND STEP
    14
    06

17. SALARY, OR RATE
    $ 13250 or 13510

18. REMARKS
    Copy furnished Vouchered Payroll.

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICER
ANDREW L. BUSBY, C/SR/PERSONNEL

18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION
    45

20. EMPLOY.
    CODE
    10

21. OFFICE CODING
    NUMERIC
    ALPHABETIC
    1202008175213

22. STATION
    CODE-
    6013

23. INTEGREE
    CODE

24. HICOTS
    CODE

25. DATE OF BIRTH

26. DATE OF GRADE

27. DATE OF LEI

28. NTE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL
    REFERENCE

30. RETIREMENT DATA
    1 - CSC
    3 - FICA
    5 - NONE

31 SEPARATION DATA CODE
1,50,00,9.1

32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
    TYPE

33. SECURITY
    REO. NO.

34. SEX

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE
    CODE
    0 - NONE
    1 - 5 PT
    2 - 10 PT

36. SERV. COMP. DATE

37. LONG. COMP. DATE

38. MIL. SERV CREDIT/LCD
    1 - YES
    2 - NO

39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE
    0 - WAIVER
    1 - YES

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

42. LEAVE CAT.
    CODE

43. FEDERAL TAX DATA

44. STATE TAX DATA

0 - NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
1 - NO BREAK IN SERVICE
2 - BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 12 MOS)
3 - BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 12 MOS)

FORM EXECUTED CODE
1 - YES
2 - NO

NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED CODE
1 - YES
2 - NO

CODE

NY TAX STATE CODE
EXEMP

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

46. O.P. APPROVAL

DATE APPROVED
7/24/62

FORM 8.61 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

EMPLOYEE NOTICE OF RESIGNATION

I RESIGN EFFECTIVE
4 August
FOR THE FOLLOWING REASON:
To accept private employment.

MY LAST WORKING DAY WILL BE
DATE SIGNED
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
4 August 62
23 July 67
FORWARD COMMUNICATIONS, INCLUDING SALARY CHECKS AND BONDS. TO THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, Zone, State)

INSTRUCTIONS

Items 1 thru 7
and
Items 9 thru 18a
The initiating office should fill in each of the referenced items.
Items 3 thru 7 and 9 thru 18 require information which pertains only to the action requested, and NOT to the current status of the employee unless specific items remain unchanged.

Item 5
"Category of Employment" should show one of the following entries:

Regular Summer WAE
Part Time Detail Out Consultant
Temporary Detail In Military
Temporary - Part Time

Item 9
"Organizational Designations" should show all levels of organization pertinent to identifying the location of the position:

Major Component (Director, Deputy Director, etc.)
Office, Major Staff, etc.
Division or Staff (subordinate to first line)
* Branch
  Section
  Unit

Item 11
"Position Title" should reflect the standard abbreviated title given in the most current edition of the Position Control Register or reported on Form 261, Staffing Complement Change Authorization.

Item 18b
Signature should be that of the official authorized to approve for the Career Service to which the employee belongs. If more than one Career Service is involved, the gaining Career Service should approve and the other Career Service should concur in Item 18, Remarks.

ROUTING - The original only of this form will be forwarded to the Office of Personnel through the appropriate Career Service official(s). In the case of requests specified in HB 20-800-1, which require advance approval of or notification to the Office of Security or the Office of the Comptroller, one copy only will be sent to the Office(s) concerned.

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# STANDARD I ORM 144
JANUARY 11צ
U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
FPM CHAPTEAS LI AND RI

STATEMENT OF PRIOR FEDERAL AND MILITARY SERVICE

IMPORTANT: The information on this form will be used in determining creditable service for leave purposes and retention credits
for reduction in force. The employre should complete Part I and the Personnel Office should complete Parts II
through IV.

## PART 1.-EMPLOYEE'S STATEMENT

1. NAME (Last, first, middle initial) CASASIN

2. DATE OF BIRTH 20 January 1924

3. LIST THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING ALL FEOCRAL AND DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA SERVICE YOU HAVE HAD
   PRIOR TO YOUR PRESENT APPOINTMENTS (Du not include military service.)

| NAME AND LOCATION OF AGENCY | FROM- |       |     | TO   |       |     | TYPE OF APPOINTMENT IF KNOWN |     |
| --------------------------- | ----- | ----- | --- | ---- | ----- | --- | ---------------------------- | --- |
|                             | YEAR  | ΜΟΝΤΗ | DAY | YEAR | MONTH | DAY |                              |     |
| None                        | CIA   | 49    | 11  | 20   |       |     |                              |     |

## PART II. THIS COLUMN 'IS FOR PERSONNEL OFFICE USE.

9. RETENTION GROUP

10. CSC STATUS (For permanent emplaress only)

*   YES
*   NO

11. SURVICE

| YEAR | MONTH | DAY |
| ---- | ----- | --- |
|      |       |     |

4. LIST PERIODS OF SERVICE IN ANY BRANCH OF THE ARMED FORCES OF THE UNITED STATES. IF YOU HAD NO MILITARY
   SERVICE, WRITE "NONE."

| BRANCH             | FROM- |       |     | TO-    |       |                | DISCHARI-E (Hon. or dishon.?) |
| ------------------ | ----- | ----- | --- | ------ | ----- | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
|                    | YEAR  | MONTH | DAY | YEAR   | MONTH | DAY            |                               |
| United States Army | 143   | Feb   | 15  | 18-Oct | 27    | Yes; honorable |                               |

|  |  |  | 5 | 8 | 12 |

5. DURING PERIODS OF EMPLOYMENT SHOWN IN ITEM 3, DID YOU HAVE A TOTAL OF MORE THAN 6 MONTHS ADSENCE 12. TOTAL SERVICE

|  |  |  | 5 | 8 | 12 |

WITHOUT PAY. INCLUDING PERIODS OF MERCHANT MARINE SERVICE, DURING ANY ONE CALENDAR YEAR! ☐ YES ☑ NO
IF ANSWER IS "YES." LIST FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

|     | TYPE IF KNOWN (LWOP, Furl, Susp. AWOL, Mer Mar) | FROM- |     |     | TO-   |     |       | TOTAL  |
| --- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----- | --- | --- | ----- | --- | ----- | ------ |
|     | YCAN                                            | MONTH | DAY | YAR | MONTH | DAY | YEARS | PONTHS |

13. NONCREDITABLE SERVICE (Leave purposes only):

1

14. NONCREDITABLE SERVICE
    (RIF purposes ony!:

6. DURING THE FEDERAL SERVICE LISTED IN ITEM 3, UID YOU ACQUIRE A FERMANENT COMPETITIVE CIVIL SERVICE STATUS?

*   YES ☑ NO

(Il answer is "Yes," in what agency were you employed at the time status was acquired?)

15. REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS

*   YES
*   NO

7. ARE YOU:
   A. THE WIFE OF A DISABLED VETERAN? YES ☑ NO
   B. THE MOTHER OF A DICEASED OR DISABLED VETERANI YES ☐ NO
   C. THE UNREMARRIED WIDOW OF A VETERAN? YES ☐ NO

16. RETENTION RIGHTS

*   YES
*   NO

17. EXPIRATION DATE OF RETEA TION RIGHTS

8. TO BE EXECUTED BEFORE A NOTARY PUBLIC OR OTHER PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO ADMINISTER OATHS.
   I swear (or affirm) that the above statements are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.

1 August 57

CASASIN

Subscribed and sworn to before me on this day of 1952 at

(NONTH) (CITY) (STATI

SEAL

NOTE: If oath is taken before a Notary Public, the date of expiration of his Commission should be shown.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

TRAVEL AGREEMENT BY STAFF EMPLOYEES ASSIGNED TO PERMANENT
DUTY STATION OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL UNITED STATES

1. In accordance with the policy of the Central Intelligence
   Agency, I agree to serve outside the continental United States a mini-
   mum tour of 21 months from the date of my arrival at my
   permanent post of duty, unless said tour is sooner terminated by the
   Government for its convenience, or it is terminated by the Agency for
   circumstances that are considered by it to be beyond my control.

2. It is understood and agreed that if I terminate for reasons
   within my control in less than 12 months from the date of arrival at
   said post, I shall reimburse CIA for all travel expenses, including
   storage and per diem, incurred in the transporting of myself, my depend-
   ents, my household and personal effects and my automobile to my perma-
   nent post of duty, and shall pay all return travel and transportation
   expenses to the United States.

3. It is further understood and agreed that if I terminate for
   reasons within my control subsequent to the twelfth month but prior to
   the completion of my tour of duty, I shall pay all return expenses for
   the travel and transportation of myself, my dependents, my household
   and personal effects and my automobile to the United States.

CASASIN.

WITNESS:

![signature]

Office of Personnel
Lorene E. Norbeck

![signature] Date: 9 August 1957


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

9 December 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Secretary, CS/CSB

SUBJECT : Recommendation for Promotion to Grade GS-15 - CASASIN

REFERENCE : Your memorandum dated 8 October 1958

1. The SR Division and the Chief of Station, Tokyo (FJTT-1950, attached) recommend the promotion of to GS-15.

2. Mr. was last promoted 16 January 1955. On 17 February 1955 he arrived in Tokyo to serve as the senior SR officer in the FE field area, his present assignment. In this position he has continued to display qualities of leadership, initiative, imagination and thoroughness which resulted in his rapid rise in the Agency.

3. The very facts of youth in relation to his responsibilities and the fact that promotion to his present level has been rapid, caused the Division and the Chief of Station, Tokyo to hold until this time a recommendation for his promotion which was submitted in June 1957. Most careful consideration has convinced us that not only is Mr. deserving of the recommended promotion, but his elevation to the higher grade will be in the best interest of the Career Service and meet definite Division requirements for a senior officer at the GS-15 level.

CHARLES KATEN
Acting Chief, SR Division

Distribution:
Orig & 6 - Addr


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

chief, SR

Chief of Station, Tokyo

## REDWOOD/ADMINISTRATIVE
Promotion of

Chief, PB

FJX-11531 (RIBAT), dated 11 October 1957
ACTION REQUIRED: See paragraph 2

Bakey - 1
moury - 2
Nelson - 4

1. In line with paragraph 2 of Reference, after a period of six months we submitted an additional promotion fitness report on under cover of FJTT-0001 dated 28 May 1958. Inasmuch as was then at Headquarters on TDY, we requested that he review this fitness report and assured that in doing so he would also discuss with promotion, which both be and felt was to be strongly recommended.

2. was, however, not shown this fitness report at Headquarters, nor did he have the opportunity to discuss a promotion with . In reviewing our records we are now concerned at the possibility of some administrative slip-up and would appreciate a word of advice as to how this promotion action is proceeding. We would like to reiterate that we now have not the slightest hesitation in recommending for promotion and find that the fitness report submitted with FJTT-0801 still reflects our current high appreciation of his abilities and progress.

20 November 1953

Distribution:
2 - Chief, SR

2 - Chief, PB

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

Attachment to
FJTA-19609

18 June 1957

MEMORANDUM NO. 360

TO: Chief of Station

FROM: Chief, Soviet Branch

SUBJECT: Recommendation for Promotion

1.  has been under my supervision as Deputy and Case Officer for approximately fifteen months. Based on the knowledge of as an individual gained during this period and upon his actual performance, I recommend that he be entered for consideration on the SR Division GS-14 to GS-15 promotion list at this time - June 1957. The slot and job which he now occupies, Chief, Soviet Branch, is, of course, adequate to accommodate such a promotion.

2. operational performance has been outstanding and notably versatile during this period. He has engaged primarily in liaison and has been personally effective in terms of results achieved almost daily, in terms of reports, operational data, and joint enterprise; while, overall, he has established enduring professional relationships from which the organization as a whole should benefit for some time to come. In addition, owing in large part to unique personal talents, linguistic and otherwise, has handled a number of unilateral cases most effectively. In the office, too, as well as in face-to-face operational situations has been outstanding. He has a flair for and a facility with the written word as evidenced by the amount of general and particular correspondence which he has initiated, and he knows the organizational "drill" intimately and from way back. Thus, I feel that he is qualified for the recommended promotion by ability and experience in both the internal and external aspects of the profession.

3. Relative to the more personal characteristics involved in the term managerial ability, judgments are necessarily more subjective but here, too, I consider to be qualified in maturity, in judgment, and in experience. He would most certainly be a supervisor who could perform all the chores or handle all the situations which he would be calling upon subordinates to take care of, in itself, the beginning of any good supervisory relationship. In actual fact, he has had considerable experience in this regard already and the principal shortcoming I have noticed is a tendency to "carry" others by an extension of his own industry. is not without his difficulties in the area of personal relationships. He is a purist at times and manifestly impatient in certain human situations where a shrug of the shoulders would be the

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

Page 2.

SECRET

st reply. These characteristics do not always make for the best personal relations but are frequently obviated by intellect and above all are correctable and are being corrected.

4. In sum, qualifications, broad experience and proven abilities dominate his age, the only factor militating against a promotion at this time. It is therefore my sincere recommendation that a promotion recommendation be forwarded to Headquarters for consideration in the current mid-year lists.

Edward MARFLIUS

Through

of previous
document

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

9 December 1953

REQUESTION FOR: Secretary, C//WASH

SUBJECT: Recommendation for Promotion to Grade GS-15

Officer of Station

REFERENCE: Issue Memorandum dated 8 October 1953

CONTROLS: NRW-11531 (REEM) dated

1. The EE Division and the Chief of Station, Tokyo (NRW-11531 attached) recommend the promotion of

2. Mr. was last promoted 16 January 1953. On 17 February 1953 he arrived in Tokyo to serve as the senior EE officer in the EE field area, his present assignment. In this position he has continued to display qualities of leadership, initiative, imagination and thoroughness which resulted in his rapid rise in the Agency, roughly

3. The very facts of Mr. youth in relation to his responsibilities and the fact that promotion to his present level has been rapid, caused the Division and the Chief of Station, Tokyo to hold until this time a recommendation for his promotion which was submitted in June 1957. Their careful consideration has convinced us that not only is Mr. deserving of the recommended promotion, but his elevation to the higher grade will be in the best interests of the Career Service and most definite Division requirements for a senior officer at the GS-15 level.

CHIEFS DUTIES

Acting Chief, EE Division

Distribution

Orig & 6 - Addr


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

COPY

TO: Chief, SR

FROM: Chief of Station, Tokyo

SUBJECT: Promotion of

REFERENCE: FJTW-11531 (RYBAT) dated 11 Oct 1957

FJTT-1950

25 November 1958

CASASIN [^1]

1. In line with paragraph 2 of Reference, after a period of six months we submitted an additional promotion fitness report on under cover of FJTT-0801 dated 28 May 1958. Inasmuch as Baker was then at Headquarters on TDY, we requested that he review this fitness report and assumed that in doing so he would also discuss with Maury promotion, which both he and Nelson felt was to be strongly recommended.

2. Baker was, however, not shown this fitness report at Headquarters, nor did he have the opportunity to discuss promotion with Naury. In reviewing our records we are now concerned at the possibility of some administrative slip-up and would appreciate a word of anvice as to how this promotion action is proceeding. We would like to reiterate that we now have not the slightest hesitation in recommending Rigs for promotion and find that the fitness report submitted with FJTT-0301 still reflects our current high appreciation of his abilities and progress.

WILLIAM E. NELSON

[^1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

14-00000

COPY
Attachment to
FUTA-19609

18 June 1957

MEMORANDUM No. 350

TO: Chief of Station

FROM: Chief, Soviet Branch
CASASIN

SUBJECT: Recommendation for Promotion

1. CASASIN has been under my supervision as Deputy and Case Officer for approximately fifteen months. Based on the knowledge of as an individual gained during this period and upon his actual performance, I recommend that he be entered for consideration on the SR Division GS-14 to GS-15 promotion list at this time - June 1957. The slot and job which he now occupies, Chief, Soviet Branch, is, of course, adequate to accommodate such a promotion.

2. operational performance has been outstanding and notably versatile during this period. He has engaged primarily in liaison and has been personally effective in terms of results achieved almost daily, in terms of reports, operational data, and joint enterprise; while, overall, he has established enduring professional relationships from which the organization as a whole should benefit for some time to come. In addition, owing in large part to unique personal talents, linguistic and otherwise,
1) has handled a number of unilateral cases most effectively. In the office, too, as well as in face-to-face operational situations, has been outstanding. He has a flair for and a facility with the written word as evidenced by the amount of general and particular correspondence which he has initiated, and he knows the organizational "drill" intimately and from way back. Thus, I feel that he is qualified for the recommended promotion by ability and experience in both the internal and external aspects of the profession.

3. Relative to the more personal characteristics involved in the term managerial ability, judgments are necessarily more subjective but here, too, I consider to be qualified in maturity, in judgment, and in experience. He would most certainly be a supervisor who could perform all the chores or handle all the situations which he would be calling upon subordinates to take care of, in itself, the beginning of any good supervisory relationship. In actual fact, he has had considerable experience in this regard already and the principal shortcoming I have noticed is a tendency to "carry" others by an extension of his own industry. is not without his difficulties in the area of personal relationships. He is a purist at times and manifestly impatient in certain human situations where a shrug of the shoulders would be the best reply. These characteristics do not always make for the best personal relationships but are frequently obviated by intellect and above all are correctable and are being corrected.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CASASINS

4. In sum, qualifications, broad experience and proven abilities dominate his age, the only factor militating against a promotion at this time. It is therefore my sincere recommendation that a promotion recommendation be forwarded to Headquarters for consideration in the current mid-year lists.

EDWARD MARELIUS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

1 June 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, CS Career Service Board

SUBJECT : Nominations for Promotion to GS-15

REFERENCE : Memorandum dated 14 May 1958 from Secretary, CS Career Service Board

1. After reviewing GS-14 employees assigned to the SR Division, I wish to again recommend the promotion of CASASIN Chief, Soviet Branch, Tokyo to GS-15. I concur also in the attached recommendation for the promotion of prepared by the Chief of Base, Berlin.

2. The Chief of Station, Tokyo and I recommended CASASIN's promotion in December 1953. This earlier recommendation presented the personal qualities of Mr. I wish simply to point out at this time that since early 1954, has more than fully discharged responsibilities at the GS-15 level. I believe that it is definitely time to elevate him to the level at which he has been performing more than satisfactorily for over 5 years.

Charles Kanti
CHARLES KATEK
Acting Chief, SR Division

Distribution:
Orig & 6 Addressee w/att


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# FIELD FITNESS REPORT

The Fitness Report is an important factor in organization personnel management. It seeks to provide:
1. The organization selection board with information of value when considering the application of an individual for membership in the career staff; and
2. A periodic record of job performance as an aid to the effective utilization of personnel.

INSTRUCTIONS

TO THE FIELD ADMINISTRATIVE OR PERSONNEL OFFICER: Consult current field administrative instructions regarding the initiation and transmittal of this report to headquarters.

TO THE FIELD SUPERVISOR: Read the entire form before attempting to complete any item. As the supervisor who assigns, directs and reviews the work of the individual, you have primary responsibility for evaluating his strengths, weaknesses, and on-the-job effectiveness as revealed by his day-to-day activities. If this individual has been under your supervision for less than 30 days, you will collaborate, if practicable, with his previous supervisors to assure that the report is accurate and complete. Primary responsibility rests with the current supervisor. It is assumed that, throughout the period this individual has been under your supervision you have discharged your supervisory responsibility by frequent discussions of his work, in such a general way he knows where he stands.

Posted Pos. Control P-95

29 NOV 1955

IT IS OPTIONAL WHETHER OR NOT THIS FITNESS REPORT IS Reviewed by PROCESSING

CASASIN

SECTION I

1. DATE OF BIRTH

20 Jan 1924

2. SEX
   M

3. SERVICE DESIGNATION
   (1) FI, (2) FP

4. GRADE
   GS-14

5. STATION DESIGNATION (Current)
   USSR Base, Tokyo

SR 879

6. DUE DATE OF THIS REPORT
   30 September 1955

7. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS REPORT (Inclusive dates)
   17 February - 30 September 1955

SECTION II (To be completed by field supervisor)

8. CURRENT POSITION
   Chief, USSR Base, Tokyo

0136.01

9. DATE ASSUMED RESPONSIBILITY FOR POSITION
   19 February 1955

10. STATE THE SPECIFIC ASSIGNMENTS OR TASKS WHICH ARE TYPICAL OF THOSE GIVEN TO THE EMPLOYEE DURING THE PAST THREE TO SIX MONTHS (List in order of frequency)

A. As Chief of Operating Bases:
1. Manage and direct all operations against target area, and monitor products.
2. Supervise system of development and exploitation of operational leads.
3. Supervise proper administration and support of operations, including finances.
4. Conduct or supervise effective liaison with other KUBARK elements, with other Government agencies abroad and, when appropriate, with representatives of other governments.

B. As Senior SR Division Officer in Area:
1. Consult with or advise other KUBARK and non-KUBARK units on target area, government, and IS characteristics.
2. Make available to other KUBARK and non-KUBARK units area specialists, as required.

SECTION III (To be completed at headquarters only)

DO NOT COMPLETE - FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATION OF REPORT AND SIGNATURES

1. NAME RATER (True)
   Carlton B. Swift

2. NAME OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL IN FIELD (True)
   W Lloyd Gengen

3. THIS REPORT [x] WAS WAS NOT SHOWN TO THE INDIVIDUAL BEING RATED.

4. DATE REPORT AUTHENTICATED AT HQS.

7.1955

5. NAME AND SIGNATURE OF ADMINISTRATIVE OR PERSONNEL OFFICER AT HEADQUARTERS AUTHORIZED TO AUTHENTICATE FITNESS REPORT AND SIGNATURES
   Phyllis M. Landrum

DO NOT COMPLETE - FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECTION IV OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

This section is provided as an as describing the individual. Your description is not favorable or unfavorable
in itself but acquires its meaning. relation to a particular job or assign. 1. The descriptive words are to be interpreted literally.

On the left hand side of the page below are a series of statements that apply to most people. On the right hand side of the page are four major categories of descriptions. The cold wording in each category is divided into three small blocks; this is to allow you to make finer distinctions if you so desire. Look at the statement on the left - then check the category on the right which best tells how much the statement applies to the person you are rating. Placing an “X” in the “Not Observed” column means you have no opinion on whether a phrase applies to an individual. Placing an “X” in the “Does Not Apply” column means that the definite opinion is that the description is not at all suited to the individual.

STATEMENTS

|                                                     | SAMPLES | NOT OBSERVED | DOES NOT APPLY | APPLIES TO A LIMITED DEGREE | APPLIES TO A REASONABLE DEGREE | APPLIES TO AN ABOVE AVERAGE DEGREE | APPLIES TO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE |
| --------------------------------------------------- | :-----: | :----------: | :------------: | :-------------------------: | :----------------------------: | :--------------------------------: | :------------------------------: |
| A. ABLE TO SEE ANOTHER'S POINT OF VIEW.             |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                X                 |
| B. PRACTICAL.                                       |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 1. A GOOD REPORTER OF EVENTS.                       |         |              |                |                             |                                |                                    |                X                 |
| 2. CAN MADE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES.  |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 3. CAUTIOUS IN ACTION.                              |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 4. HAS INITIATIVE.                                  |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 5. UNEMOTIONAL.                                     |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 6. ANALYTIC IN HIS THINKING.                        |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 7. CONSTANTLY STRIVING FOR NEW KNOWLEDGE AND IDEAS. |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 8. GETS ALONG WITH PEOPLE AT ALL SOCIAL LEVELS.     |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 9. HAS SENSE OF HUMOR.                              |         |              |                |                             |               X                |                                    |                                  |
| 10. KNOWS WHEN TO SEEK ASSISTANCE.                  |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 11. CALM.                                           |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 12. CAN GET ALONG WITH PEOPLE.                      |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 13. MEMORY FOR FACTS.                               |         |              |                |                             |               X                |                                    |                                  |
| 14. GETS THINGS DONE.                               |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 15. KEEPS ORIENTED TOWARD LONG TERM GOALS.          |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 16. CAN COPE WITH EMERGENCIES.                      |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 17. HAS HIGH STANDARDS OF ACCOMPLISHMENT.           |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 18. HAS STAMINA; CAN KEEP GOING A LONG TIME.        |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 19. HAS WIDE RANGE OF INFORMATION.                  |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 20. SHOWS ORIGINALITY.                              |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 21. ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES.                       |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 22. ADMITS HIS ERRORS.                              |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 23. RESPONDS WELL TO SUPERVISION.                   |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |
| 24. EVEN DISPOSITION.                               |         |              |                |                             |                                |                 X                  |                                  |
| 25. ABLE TO DO HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT.      |         |              |       X        |                             |                                |                                    |                                  |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

26. | AN THINK ON HIS FEET. | ☑   |
    | --------------------- | --- |
27. COMES UP WITH SOLUTIONS TO PROBLEMS. | ☑
28. STIMULATING TO ASSOCIATES. A "SPARK PLUG". | ☑
29. TOUGH MINDED. | ☑
30. ODSERVANT. | X
31. CAPABLE. | ☑
32. CLEAR THINKING. | X
33. COMPLETES ASSIGNMENTS WITHIN ALLORABLE TIME LIMITS. | X
34. EVALUATES SELF REALISTICALLY. | XI
35. WELL INFORMED ABOUT CURRENT EVENTS. | X
36. DELIBERATE. | X
37. EFFECTIVE IN DISCUSSIONS WITH ASSOCIATES | ☑
38. IMPLEMENTS DECISIONS REGARD- LESS OF OWN FEELINGS. | ☑
39. THOUGHTFUL OF OTHERS. | X
40. WORKS WELL UNDER PRESSURE. |
41. DISPLAYS JUDGEMENT. | ☑
42. GIVES CREDIT WHERE CREDIT IS DUE. | ☑
43. HAS DRIVE. | X
44. IS SECURITY CONSCIOUS. |
45. VERSATILE. | X
46. HIS CRITICISM 1S CONSTRUCTIVE: |
47. ABLE TO INFLUENCE OTHERS. | ☑
48. FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION "OF HIS OFFICE. | X
49. DOES NOT REQUIRE STRONG AND CONTINUOUS SUPERVISION. | ☑
50. A GOOD SUPERVISOR. |

SECTION V

A. WHAT ARE HIS OUTSTANDING STRENGTHS?

Capable operations officer with broad understanding of Soviet problems.

B. WHAT ARE HIS OUTSTANDING WEAKNESSES?

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SECRET

INDICATE IF YOU THINK THAT ANY SIN STRENGTH OR WEAKNESS OUTWEIGHS ALL OTHE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

DO YOU FEEL THAT HE REQUIRES CLOSE SUPERVISION? NO YES. IF YES. 07:22 11:07 AM '55

WHAT TRAINING DO YOU RECOMMEND FOR THIS INDIVIDUAL?

MAIL BOON

F. OTHER COMMENTS (Indicate here general traits, specific habits or characteristics not covered elsewhere in the report but which have a bearing on effective utilization of this person):

SECTION VI

Read all descriptions before rating. Place "X" in the most appropriate box under subsections A, B, C & D

A. DIRECTIONS: Consider only the skill with which the person has performed the duties of his job and rate him accordingly.

1. DOES NOT PERFORM DUTIES ADEQUATELY. HE IS INCOMPETENT.

2. BARELY ADEQUATE IN PERFORMANCE, ALTHOUGH HE HAS HAD SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR TRAINING. HE OFTEN FAILS TO CARRY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES COMPETENTLY.

3. PERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY. OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA OF WEAKNESS.

4. PERFORMS DUTIES IN A TYPICALLY COMPETENT, EFFECTIVE MANNER.

5. A FINE PERFORMANCE; CARRIES OUT MANY OF HIS RESPONSIBILITIES EXCEPTIONALLY WELL.

6. PERFORMS HIS DUTIES IN SUCH AN OUTSTANDING MANNER THAT HE IS EQUALLED BY FEW OTHER PERSONS KNOWN TO THE RATER.

IS THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER QUALIFIED FOR WORK IN SOME OTHER AREA? NO YES. IF YES, WHAT?

C. DIRECTIONS: Based upon what he has said, his actions, and any other indications, give your opinion of this person's attitude toward the organization.

1. HAS AN ANTAGONISTIC ATTITUDE TOWARD THE AGENCY…WILL DEFINITELY LEAVE THE ORGANIZATION AT THE FIRST OPPORTUNITY.

2. HAS STRONG NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ORGANIZATION…IRKED BY RESTRICTIONS…REGARDS AGENCY AS A TEMPORARY STOP UNTIL HE CAN GET SOMETHING BETTER.

3. TENDS TO HAVE AN UNFAVORABLE ATTITUDE TOWARD THE ORGANIZATION. BOTHERED BY MINOR FRUSTRATIONS…WILL QUIT IF THESE CONTINUE.

4. HIS ATTITUDE TOWARD THE ORGANIZATION IS INDIFFERENT…HAS "WAIT AND SEE" ATTITUDE…WOULD LEAVE IF SOMEONE OFFERED HIM SOMETHING BETTER.

5. TENDS TO HAVE FAVORABLE ATTITUDE TOWARD ORGANIZATION…MAKES ALLOWANCES FOR RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED BY WORKING FOR ORGANIZATION…THINKS IN TERMS OF A CAREER IN THE ORGANIZATION.

6. DEFINITELY HAS FAVORABLE ATTITUDE TOWARD THE ORGANIZATION…BARKING AN UNEXPECTED OUTSIDE OPPORTUNITY, WILL PROBABLY ENDEAVOR TO MAKE A CAREER IN THE ORGANIZATION.

7. HAS AN ENTHUSIASTIC ATTITUDE TOWARD THE ORGANIZATION…WILL PROBABLY NEVER CONSIDER WORKING ANY PLACE BUT IN THE ORGANIZATION.

B. DIRECTIONS: Considering others of this person's grade and type of assignment, how would you rate him on potentiality for assumption of greater responsibilities normally indicated by promotion.

1. HAS REACHED THE HIGHEST GRADE LEVEL AT WHICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED.

2. IS MAKING PROGRESS, BUT NEEDS MORE TIME IN PRESENT GRADE BEFORE PROMOTION TO A HIGHER GRADE CAN BE RECOMMENDED.

3. IS READY TO TAKE ON RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE NEXT HIGHER GRADE, BUT MAY NEED TRAINING IN SOME AREAS.

4. WILL PROBABLY ADJUST QUICKLY TO THE MORE RESPONSIBLE DUTIES OF THE NEXT HIGHER GRADE.

5. IS ALREADY PERFORMING AT THE LEVEL OF THE NEXT HIGHER GRADE.

6. AN EXCEPTIONAL PERSON WHO IS ONE OF THE FEW WHO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR RAPID ADVANCEMENT.

D. DIRECTIONS: Consider everything you know about this person in making your rating…skill in job duties, conduct on the job, personal characteristics or habits, and special defects or talents.

1. DEFINITELY UNSUITABLE - HE SHOULD BE SEPARATED.

2. OF DOUBTFUL SUITABILITY…WOULD NOT HAVE ACCEPTED HIM IF I HAD KNOWN WHAT I KNOW NOW.

3. A BARELY ACCEPTABLE EMPLOYEE…DEFINITELY BELOW AVERAGE BUT WITH NO WEAKNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO WARRANT HIS SEPARATION.

4. A TYPICAL EMPLOYEE…HE DISPLAYS THE SAME SUITABILITY AS MOST OF THE PEOPLE I KNOW IN THE ORGANIZATION.

5. A FINE EMPLOYEE - HAS SOME OUTSTANDING STRENGTHS.

6. AN UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERMS OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION.

7. EXCELLED BY ONLY A FEW IN SUITABILITY FOR WORK IN THE ORGANIZATION.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# SECRET

FITNESS REPORT (Part II) POTENTIAL

INSTRUCTIONS.

FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current instructicas for completing this report.

FOR THE SUPERVISOR: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate carcer manage- ment and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employ're being rated. It is NOT to be shown to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision FOR AT LEAST 90 DAYS. If less than 90 days hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the INITIAL REPORT on the employee, however, it ist be completed and forwarded to the Of no later than 30 days, after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section "bela.

SECTION E

1. NAME

CASASIN

5. OFFICE/DIVISION BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT

Japan Station (RED.205)

7.-GRADE 8. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP

GS-14

10. TYPE OF REPORT

(Check one)

ANNUAL

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH

20 Jan. 1924

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Area Operations Officer

3. SEX

if

4. SERVICE DESIGNATION

DI

9. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS REPORT (Inclusive dates)

1 Cetober 1955 to 30 September 1955

SECTION F.

CERTIFICATION

1. FOR THE RATER: 1 CERTIFY THAT THIS REPORT REPRESENTS MY BEST JUDGEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL BEING RATED

A. THIS DATE

15 November 1956

B. TYPED ON PRINTED NAME ANCO SIGN OF SUPERVISOR C. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

Eward Me

Chief, Soviet Branch

2. FOR THE REVIEWING OFFICIAL I HAVE REVIEWED THIS REPORT AND NOTED ANY DIFFERENCE OF OPINION IN ATTACHED MEMO.

A. THIS DATE

21 November 1956

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNY OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL C. OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Willerd George

Chief of Curation

SECTION G.

ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

1. POTENTIAL TO ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

DIRECTIONS: Considering other's of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume grester responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his Land of work.

1 - ALREADY ABOVE THE LEVEL AT WHICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED

2 - HAS REACHED THE HIGHEST LEVEL AT MICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN 91 EXPECTED

3 - MAKING PROGRESS, BUT NEEDS MORE TIME BEFORE HE CAN BE TRAINED TO ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

7

4 - READY FOR TRAINING IN ASSUMING GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

5 - WILL PROBABLY. ADJUST QUICKLY TO MORE RESPONSIALE DUTIES WITHOUT FURTHER TRAINING

6 - ALREADY ASSUMING MORE RESPONSIBILITIES THAN EXPECTED AT HIS PRESENT LEVEL

RATING

NUMBER

7 - AN EXCEPTIONAL PERSON WHO IS ONE OF THE FEW WND SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR EARLY ASSUMPTION OF NIGHER LEVEL RESPONSIBILITIES

2. SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL

DIRECTIONS. Answer this question: ilas this person the ability to be a supervisor? [X] Yes [] No If your answer is YES, indicate below your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach AFTER SUITABLE TRAINING. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your rating is based on observing him supervise, note your rating in the "actual" column. If based on opinion of his potential, note the rating in the "potentiel column.

DESCRIPTIVE RATING NUMBER

ACTUAL

POTENTIAL

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION

0 - HAVE NO OPINION ON HIS SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL IN THIS SITUATION

1 - BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE A WEAK SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SITUATIΟΥ

2 - BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE AV AVERAGE SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SITUATION

3 - BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE A STRONG SUPERVISOR IN THIS SITUATION

2

A GROUP COING THE BASIC J08 (truck Gravers, stenographers, technicians or professional specialists of various kinds) ONERE Contact ITH IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES IS FREQUENT (First line supervisor)

3

A GROUP OF SUPERVISORS WHO CORECT TE BASIC JOR (Second line supervisors)


3

3

A CROUP, SHO MAY OR MAY NOT BE SUPERRISONS, DHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MAJOR PLAYS, D..... AND POLICY (Executive level)


WHEN CONTACT WITH IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES IS NOT FREQUENT

3

UNEN IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES ACTIVITIES ARE DIVERSE AND NEED CAREFUL COORDINATIon

3

WHEN INMEDIATE SUBORDINATES INCLUDE wastes oF THE OPPOSITE SEX


OTHER (Specify)

FORM 49 REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET Potential


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# FITNE REPORT (Part 1) PERFORM CE

INSTRUCTIONS

FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

FOR THE SUPERVISOR: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370. It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any section. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8. of Section "A" below.

SECTION A. GENERAL

1. NAME
   CASASIN

2. DATE OF BIRTH:
   20 Jan. 1924

3. SEX:
   M

4. SERVICE DESIGNATION:
   DI

5. OFFICE/DIVISION/BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT:
   Japan Station (REDWOOD)

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE:
   Area Operations Officer

7. GRADE:
   GS-14

8. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP:

9. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS REPORT (Inclusive dates):
   1 October 1955 to 30 September 1956

10. TYPE OF REPORT:
    X ANNUAL

SECTION B. CERTIFICATION

1. THE RATER: THIS REPORT [X] HAS [ ] HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO THE INDIVIDUAL RATED. IF NOT SHOWN, EXPLAIN WHY.

2. (X) APPROPRIATE STATEMENTS:

[X] THIS REPORT REFLECTS MY OWN OPINIONS OF THIS INDIVIDUAL.

[ ] IF INDIVIDUAL IS RATED "1" IN C1 OR D, A WARNING LETTER WAS SENT TO HIM & A COPY ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT.

[ ] THIS REPORT REFLECTS THE COMBINED OPINIONS OF MYSELF AND PREVIOUS SUPERVISORS.

[ ] I CANNOT CERTIFY THAT THE RATED INDIVIDUAL KNOWS HOW I EVALUATE HIS JOB PERFORMANCE BECAUSE (Specify):

[X] I HAVE DISCUSSED WITH THIS EMPLOYEE HIS STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES SO THAT HE KNOWS WHERE HE STANDS.

B. THIS DATE:
15 November 1956

C. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR:
E. Rivail Tharelius

D. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE:
Chief, Soviet Branch

2. FOR THE REVIEWING OFFICIAL: RECORD ANY SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCE OF OPINION WITH THE SUPERVISOR, OR ANY OTHER INFORMATION WHICH WILL LEAD TO A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF THIS REPORT.

> Posted Pos. R
> Reviewed!:
> DATE
> 19 JAN 1957
> Pm-1-22-57

[ ] CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

A. THIS DATE:
22 November 1956

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL:
W. Lloyd George

C. OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL:
Chief of Operations

SECTIO C. JOB PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

1. RATING ON GENERAL PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES

DIRECTIONS: Consider ONLY the productivity and effectiveness with which the individual being rated has performed his duties during the rating period. Compare him ONLY with others doing similar work at a similar level of responsibility. Factors other than productivity will be taken into account later in Section D.

6
INSERT RATING NUMBER

1 - DOES NOT PERFORM DUTIES ADEQUATELY: HE IS INCOMPETENT.

2 - BARELY ADEQUATE IN PERFORMANCE: ALTHOUGH HE HAS HAD SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR TRAINING, HE OFTEN FAILS TO CARRY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES.

3 - PERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY: OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA OF WEAKNESS.

4 - PERFORMS DUTIES IN A COMPETENT, EFFECTIVE MANNER.

5 - A FINE PERFORMANCE: CARRIES OUT MANY OF HIS RESPONSIBILITIES EXCEPTIONALLY WELL.

6 - PERFORMS HIS DUTIES IN SUCH AN OUTSTANDING MANNER THAT HE IS EQUALLED BY FEW OTHER PERSONS KNOWS TO THE SUPERVISOR.

COMMENTS:

FORM NO. 45 (Part 1) NOV 53 REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 45 AND 45A WHICH ARE OBSOLETE SECRET Performance (4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# SECRET

2. RATINGS ON PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DITIES

**DIRECTIONS:**

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important SPECIFIC duties duri the rating period.
Flace the most important first. Do nat include minor or unirportant duties.

b. Rate performance on cach specific duty considering ur effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty (do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only.).

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated wille others holding same duty at a similar level of responsability.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:
*   ORAL BRIEFING
*   GIVING LECTURES
*   CONDUCTING SEMINARS
*   WRITING TECHNICAL REPOSTS
*   CONDUCTING EXTERNAL LIAISON
*   TYPING
*   TAKING DICTATION
*   SUPERVISING
*   HAS AND USES AREA: KNOWLEDGE
*   DEVELOP'S NEW PROGRAMS
*   AVALYZES INSTRIAL REPORTS
*   MAVAGES FILES
*   OPERATES B
*   COORDINATES SITH OTHER OFFICES
*   WRITES RESCATIONS
*   PREPARES CORRESPONDENCE
*   MAIL ROOM
*   CONDUCTS INTERROGATIONS
*   PREPARES SLWARIES
*   TRANSLATES CERVAY
*   DEBRIEFING SOURCES
*   KEEPS BOOKS..
*   DRIVES TRUCK
*   MAINTAINS AIR CONDITIONING
*   EVALUATES SIGNIFICANCE OF DATA

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken Joen even further it supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

2

DESCRIPTIVE
RATING
NUMBER

*   1 - INCOMPETENT IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS CUTY
*   2 - BARELY ADEQUATE IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS DUTY
*   3 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY ACCEPTABLY
*   4 - PERFORMS THIS OUTY IN A COMPETENT MANNER
*   5 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY IN SUCH A FINE MANNER THAT HE IS A DISTINCT ASSET ON HIS JOB
*   6 PERFORMS THIS OUTY IN AN OUTSTANDING MANNER FOUND IN VERY FEW INDIVIDUALS HOLDING SIMI-LAR JOBS
*   7 LXCELS ANYONE I KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS DUTY

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
RATING
NUMBER

Deputy to Branch Chief

5

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
RATING
NUMBER

Conducts Foreign Liaison

6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
RATING
NUMBER

Frepares and manages projects

4

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
RATING
NUMBER

Supervising

4

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
RATING
NUMBER

Frepares correspondence and recorts

6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6
RATING
NUMBER

Handles admin routine

4

3. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

**DIRECTIONS:** Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject has really superb natural equipment for work in this Organization in terms of mental capacity, psychological bent and affinity for the things and people he comes against. He tops this off with industry and language ability among other natural aptitudes. On the debit side and measured against the best, he is a bit shy of humor and personal understanding in scme situations, qualities which mitigate more against acceptability than job competence.

SECTION D. SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JCB IN ORGANIZATION

**DIRECTIONS:** Take into account here everything you know about the individual... productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents....and how he fits in with your team. Compare him with others doing similar work of about the same level.

*   1 - DEFINITELY UNSUITABLE NE SHOULD BE SEPARATED
*   2 - OF DOUBTFUL SUITABILITY...LD NOT HAVE ACCEPTED HIM IF I HAD KNOWN WHAT I KNOW YOR
*   3 - A BARELY ACCEPTABLE EMPLOYEE...DELO AVERAGE BUT WITH NO WEAKNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO WAR-RANT HIS SEPARATION
*   4 - OF THE SAME SUITABILITY AS MOST PEOPLE I AND IN THE ORGANIZATION
*   5 - A FINE EMPLOYEE HAS SOME UTSTANDING STRENGTHS
*   6 - AV UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERMS OF THE REDIREMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION
*   7 - EXCELLFO BY CALY A FEW IN SUITABILITY FOR BORA IN THE ORGANIZATION

RATING
NUMBER

7

IS THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITED FOR WORK IN SOWE OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATION? [X] YES [ ] NO. IF YES. EXPLAIN FULLY:

Subject is an all around perfomer capable of a primary, in place of his present secondary, responsibility.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# SECRET

3. INDICATE THE APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF
   Six

4. COMMENTS CONCERNING POTENTIAL

Subject has a high all around potential. With respect to subordinates from his own energy rather below, he tends to support subordinates from his own energy rather to bring them along the hard way, and a normal tendency to avoid the categorical "no" - both tendencies easily correctable.

SECTION H.
FUTURE PLANS

1. TRAINING OR OTHER DEVELOPMENTAL EXPERIENCE PLANNED FOR THE INDIVIDUAL

Koutine refresher training as appropriate.

2. NOTE OTHER FACTORS, INCLUDING PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES, TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGNMENTS

All normal. No limiting factors.

SECTION 1.
DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

DIRECTIONS: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading "category." Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

X - HAVE NOT OBSERVED THIS; HENCE CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO HOW THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE INDIVIDUAL

CATEGORY NUMBER

*   APPLIES TO THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE IFAST POSSIBLE DEGREE
*   APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO A LIMITED DEGREE
*   APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN AVERAGE DEGREE
*   APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN ABOVE AVERAGE DEGREE
*   APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE

| CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                         | CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                               | CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                              |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 4        | 1. ABLE TO SEE ANOTHER'S POINT OF VIE             | 5        | 11. WAS HIGH STANDARDS OF ACCOMPLISHMENT                | 4        | 21. IS EFFECTIVE IN DISCUSSIONS WITH ASSOCIATES        |
| 4        | 2. CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES | 4        | 12: SHOWS ORIGINALITY                                   | 3        | 22. IMPLEMENTS DECISIONS REGARDLESS OF OWN PELLIFES    |
| 5        | 3. HAS INITIATIVE                                 | 4        | 13. ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                            | 3        | 23. IS THOUGHTFUL OF OTHERS                            |
| 3        | 4. IS ANALYTIC IN HIS THINKING                    | 5        | 14. ADMITS HIS ERRORS                                   | 4        | 24. WORKS WELL UNDER PRESSURE                          |
| 5        | 5. STRIVES CONSTANTLY FOR NEA ENOWLEDGE AND IDEAS | 4        | 15. RESPONDS WELL TO SUPERVISION                        | 4        | 25. DISPLAYS JUDGEMENT                                 |
| 4        | 6. KNOWS WHEN TO SEEK ASSISTANCE                  | 5        | 16. DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                 | 4        | 26. IS SECURITY CONSCIOUS                              |
| 3        | 7. CAN GET ALONG WITH PEOPLE                      | 5        | 17. COMES UP WITH SOLUTIONS TO PROBLEMS                 | 5        | 27. IS VERSATILE                                       |
| 5        | 8. HAS MEMORY FOR FACTS                           | 5        | 18. IS OBSERVANT                                        | 4        | 28. HIS CRITICISM IS CONSTRUCTIVE                      |
| 5        | 9. GETS THINGS DONE                               | 5        | 19. THINGS CLEARLY                                      | 4        | 29. FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE         |
| X        | 10. CAN COPE WITH EMERGENCIES                     | 5        | 20. COMPLETES ASSIGNMENTS WITHIN ALLOWABLE TIME 'LIMITS | 5        | 30. DOES NOT REQUIRE STRONG AND CONTINUOUS SUPERVISION |


SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

14-00000

FITNESS REPORT (Part II) POTENTIAL

INSTRUCTIONS

FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

FOR THE SUPERVISOR: This report is a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate career manage-
ment and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is NOT to be shown to the
rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report is
to be completed only after the employee has been under your supervision FOR AT LEAST 90 DAYS. If less than 90 days,
sold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. If this is the INITIAL REPORT on the employee, however, it MUST be
completed and forwarded to the "CP" no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in item 8 of Section "E" below.

SECTION E. GENERAL

1. NAME: C ASARSIN

2. DATE OF BIRTH: 20 Jan. 1901

3. SRV: II

4. SERVICE DESIGNATION: DI

5. OFFICE/DIVISION/BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT: Telco Station RES.CCD

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE: Area Operations Officer

7. GRADE: GS-14

8. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP:

9. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS REPORT: 1 October 1956 to 30 September 1957

10. TYPE OF REPORT: INITIAL

SECTION F. CERTIFICATION

A. THIS DATE: 23 Oct 57

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR: Lloyd GEORGE

SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE: CCS, Tokyo

C. FOR THE REVIEWING OFFICIAL: I HAVE REVIEWED THIS REPORT AND NOTED ANY DIFFERENCE OF OPINION IN ATTACHED MEMO.

A. THIS DATE: 16 Oct 1957

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Edware Morellus

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL: Chief SOV Branch Japan Station

SECTION G. ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

1. POTENTIAL TO ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

DIRECTIONS: Considering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

1. ALREADY ABOVE THE LEVEL AT WHICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED
2. HAS REACHED THE HIGHEST LEVEL AT WHICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED
3. MAKING PROGRESS, BUT NEEDS MORE TIME BEFORE HE CAN BE TRAINED TO ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES
4. READY FOR TRAINING IN ASSUMING GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES
5. WILL PROBABLY ADJUST QUICKLY TO MORE RESPONSIBLE DUTIES WITHOUT FURTHER TRAINING
6. ALREADY ASSUMING MORE RESPONSIBILITIES THAN EXPECTED AT HIS PRESENT LEVEL
7. AN EXCEPTIONAL PERSON AND IS ONE OF THE FEW WHO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR EARLY ASSUMPTION OF HIGHER LEVEL RESPONSIBILITIES

RATING NUMBER: 7

2. SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL

DIRECTIONS: Answer this question: Is this person the ability to be a supervisor?
Yes No
If your answer is YES, indicate below your opinion or guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach AFTER SUITABLE TRAINING. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your rating is based on observing him supervise, note your eating in the "actual" column. If based on opinion of his potential, note the rating in the "potential" column.

0. HAVE NO OPINION ON HIS SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL IN THIS SITUATION
1. BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE A WEAK SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SITUATION
2. BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE AN AVERAGE SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SITUATION
3. BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE A STRONG SUPERVISOR IN THIS SITUATION

| ACTUAL | POTENTIAL | DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION                                                                                                                                                                               |
| ------ | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 2      |           | A GROUP DOING THE BASIC JOB (truck drivers, stenographers, technicians or professional specialists of various kinds) UNDER CONTACT WITH IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES IS FREQUENT (first line supervision) |
|        | 3         | A GROUP OF SUPERVISORS WHO DIRECT THE BASIC JOB (second line supervision)                                                                                                                           |
| 3      |           | A GROUP WHO MAY OR MAY NOT BE IN STAFF POSITIONS, WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MAJOR PLANS, ORGANIZATION AND POLICY (Executive level)                                                                   |
| 3      |           | UNDER CONTACT WITH IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES IS NOT FREQUENT                                                                                                                                           |
| 3      |           | WHEN IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES' ACTIVITIES REQUIRE DIVERSE AND CAREFUL COORDINATION                                                                                                                    |
| 3      |           | WHEN IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATES INCLUDE MEMBERS OF THE OPPOSITE SEX                                                                                                                                     |
| 3      |           | OTHER (Specify)                                                                                                                                                                                     |

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS
45 (Part II) of 45 and 45a WHICH SECRET Potential

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

3. INDICATE THE APPROXIMATE NUMBER OF MONTHS THE RATED EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER YOU: 15

4. COMMENTS CONCERNING POTENTIAL:

Subject is well suited for this business and the business should progress steadily to positions of great responsibility.

SECTION M. FUTURE PLANS

1. TRAINING OR OTHER DEVELOPMENTAL EXPERIENCE PLANNED FOR THE INDIVIDUAL

Normal refresher s/o preparatory training as required.

2. NOTE OTHER FACTORS, INCLUDING PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES, TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGNMENTS

No limiting factors or personal circumstances known to the rater

SECTION I. DESCRIPTION OF INDIVIDUAL

DIRECTIONS: This section is provided as an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to most people. To the left of each statement is a box under the heading "category." Read each statement and insert in the box the category number which best fits how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

X - HAVE NOT OBSERVED THIS. HENCE CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO HOW THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE INDIVIDUAL

1 - APPLIES TO THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE LEAST POSSIBLE DEGREE

2 - APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO A LIMITED DEGREE

3 - APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN AVERAGE DEGREE

4 - APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN ABOVE AVERAGE DEGREE

5 - APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE

| CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                         | CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                              | CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                              |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 4        | 1. ABLE TO SEE ANOTHER'S POINT OF VIEW            | 5        | 11. HAS HIGH STANDARDS OF ACCOMPLISHMENT               | 4        | 21. IS EFFECTIVE IN DISCUSSIONS WITH ASSOCIATES        |
| 4        | 2. CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES | 4        | 12. SHOWS ORIGINALITY                                  | 3        | 22. IMPLEMENTS DECISIONS REGARDLESS OF OWN FEELINGS    |
| 5        | 3. HAS INITIATIVE                                 | 4        | 13. ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                           | 3        | 23. IS THOUGHTFUL OF OTHERS                            |
| 5        | 4. IS ANALYTIC IN ALL THINKING                    | 3        | 14. ADMITS HIS ERRORS                                  | 4        | 24. WORKS WELL UNDER PRESSURE                          |
| 5        | 5. STRIVES CONSTANTLY FOR NEW KNOWLEDGE AND IDEAS | 4        | 15. RESPONDS WELL TO SUPERVISION                       | 4        | 25. DISPLAYS JUDGEMENT                                 |
| 4        | 6. KNOWS WHEN TO SEEK ASSISTANCE                  | 5        | 16. DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                | 4        | 26. IS SECURITY CONSCIOUS                              |
| 3        | 7. CAN GET ALONG WITH PEOPLE                      | 5        | 17. COMES UP WITH SOLUTIONS TO PROBLEMS                | 5        | 27. IS VERSATILE                                       |
| 5        | 8. HAS MEMORY FOR FACTS                           | 5        | 18. IS OBSERVANT                                       | 4        | 28. HIS CRITICISM IS CONSTRUCTIVE                      |
| 5        | 9. GETS THINGS DONE                               | 5        | 19. THINKS CLEARLY                                     | 4        | 29. FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE         |
| 5        | 10. CAN COPE WITH EMERGENCIES                     | 5        | 20. COMPLETES ASSIGNMENTS WITHIN ALLOWABLE TIME LIMITS | 4        | 30. DOES NOT REQUIRE STRONG AND CONTINUOUS SUPERVISION |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET
(when Filled In)

# FITNESS REPORT (Part I) PERFORMANCE

INSTRUCTIONS

FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

FOR THE SUPERVISOR this report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evaluation to your supervisor and senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for a discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part I of this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20:370: It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Personnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8. of Section "A" below.

## SECTION A.

1. NAME

CASASIN

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH

20 Jan. 192

3. SEX

M

4. SERVICE DESIGNATION

PI

5. OFFICE/DIVISION BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT

Tokyo Station REDICOD

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Area Operations Officer

7. GRADE
   GS-14

8. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP

9. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS REPORT (Inclusive dates)

1 October 1956 to 30 September 1957

10. TYPE OF REPORT
    (Check one)

ANNUAL

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT-EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specify)

## SECTION B.

1. FOR THE RATER: THIS REPORT

Completed at Headquarters; subject not available (Copy sent to field)

CERTIFICATION

A. CHECK (3) APPROPRIATE STATEMENTS:

THIS REPORT REFLECTS MY OWN OPINIONS OF THIS INDIVIDUAL.

THIS REPORT REFLECTS THE COMBINED OPINIONS OF MYSELF AND PREVIOUS SUPERVISORS.

I HAVE DISCUSSED WITH THIS EMPLOYEE HIS STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES SO THAT HE KNOWS WHERE HE STANDS.

INDIVIDUAL IS RATED "I"IN CI OR D. A WARNING LETTER WAS SENT TO HIM A COPY ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT.

I CANNOT CERTIFY THAT THE RATED INDIVIDUAL KNOWS HOW I EVALUATE HIS JOB PERFORMANCE BECAUSE (Specify)

8. THIS DATE

16 Oct 1957

C. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR D. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

Edward Markham, Chief SOV Branch Japan Station

2. FOR THE REVIEWING OFFICIAL: RECORD ANY SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCE OF OPINION WITH THE SUPERVISOR, OR ANY OTHER INFORMATION, WHICH WILL LEAD TO A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF THIS REPORT.

Posted For:

Reviewed by:

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

A. THIS DATE

23 Oct 57

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF REVIEWING C. OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Lloyd George, COS, Tokyo

## SECTION C.

1. RATING ON GENERAL PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES

JOB PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

DIRECTIONS: Consider ONLY the productivity and effectiveness with which the individual being rated has performed his duties during the rating period. Compare him ONLY with others doing similar work at a similar level of responsibility. Factors other than productivity will be taken into account later in Section D.

6

INSERT RATING NUMBER

1. DOES NOT PERFORM DUTIES ADEQUATELY, HE IS INCOMPETENT.
2. PARELY ADEQUATE IN PERFORMANCE, ALTHOUGH HE HAS HAD SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR TRAINING, HE OFTEN FAILS TO CARRY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES.
3. PERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY, OCCASIONALLY REVEALS 'SOME AREA OF WEAKNESS.
4. PERFORMS DUTIES IN A COMPETENT, EFFECTIVE MANNER.
5. A FINE PERFORMANCE CARRIES OUT MANY OF HIS RESPONSIBILITIES EXCEPTIONALLY WELL.
6. PERFORMS HIS DUTIES IN SUCH AN OUTSTANDING MANNER THAT HE IS EQUALLED BY FEW OTHER PERSONS KNOWN TO THE SUPERVISOR.

COMMENTS:

FORM NO 45 (Part 1) REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 45 AND 45A WHICH ARE OBSOLETE

SECRET

Performance


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# SEC....

2. RATINGS ON PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC

DIRECTIONS:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important SPECIFIC duties performed during rating period.
Place the most important first. Is not include minor or unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering ONLY effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specialty (do not rate as supervisors those who, supervise a secretary only).

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

ORAL BRIEFING
HAS AND USES AREA KNOWLEDGE
MAIL ROOM
GIVING LECTURES
DEVELOPS NEW PROGRAMS
CONUCTS INTERROGATIONS
CONDUCTING SEMINARS
ANALYZES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS
PREPARES SUMMARIES
BRITING TECHNICAL REPORTS
MANAGES FILES
TRANSLATES GERMAN
CONDUCTING EXTERNAL LIAISON
OPERATES RADIO
DENRIEFING SOURCES
TYPING
COORDINATES WITH OTHER OFFICES
KEEPS BOOKS
TAKING DICTATION
WRITES REGULATIONS
DRIVES TRUCK
SUPERVISING
PREPARES CORRESPONDENCE
MAINTAINS AIR CONDITIONING
EVALUATES SIGNIFICANCE OF DATA

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

1 - INCOMPETENT IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS DUTY
6 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY IN AN OUTSTANDING MANNER
DESCRIPTIVE
RATING
2 - BARELY ADEQUATE IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS
DUTY
FOUND IN VERY FEW INDIVIDUALS HOLDING SIMILAR JOBS
NUMBER
3 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY ACCEPTABLY
7 - EXCELS ANYONE I KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF
THIS DUTY
4 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY IN A COMPETENT MANNER
5 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY IN SUCH A FINE MANNER
THAT HE IS A DISTINCT ASSET ON HIS JOB.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
RATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
RATING
NUMBER
NUMBER
Deputy to Branch Chief
5 Supervising
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
RATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
RATING
NUMBER
NUMBER
Conducts Foreign Liaison
6 Prepares correspondence and reports
and handles administrative routine
5
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
RATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6
RATING
NUMBER
NUMBER
Prepares and Manages Projects
4 Developes and handles Agents
5
3. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

DIRECTIONS: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject has excellent natural equipment for employment in this organization in terms of his intelligence and natural apptitudes. Additionally, he brings a great deal of area knowledge and language ability to his present assignment. During the period covered by this report he has displayed great industry and devotion to duty in a variety of circumstances and achieved notable results in production and in the creation of both short and long-term assets for his unit. On the debit side I would say that he is somewhat too businesslike in many personal situations to the point of being almost humourless. This, however, is a quality which he does not permit to intrude upon the necessities of his operational work although it often shows in office relationships..

SECTION D. SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

DIRECTIONS: Take into account here everything you know about the individual....productivity, conduct in the job, pertinent personal characteristics or habits, special defects or talents....and how he fits in with your team. Compare him with others doing similar work of about the same level.

1 - DEFINITELY UNSUITABLE HE SHOULD BE SEPARATED
2 - OF DOUBTFUL SUITABILITY...WOULD NOT HAVE ACCEPTED HIM IF I HAD KNOWN WHAT I KNOW NOW
RATING
NUMBER
3 - A BARELY ACCEPTABLE EMPLOYEE... BELOW AVERAGE BUT WITH NO WEAKNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO WARRANT HIS SEPARATION
7
4 - OF THE SAME SUITABILITY AS MOST PEOPLE I KNOW IN THE ORGANIZATION
5 - A FINE EMPLOYEE HAS SOME OUTSTANDING STRENGTHS
6 - AN UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERMS OF THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION
7 - EXCELLED BY ONLY A FEW IN SUITABILITY FOR OR IN THE ORGANIZATION

IS THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITED FOR WORK IN SOME OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATION?
YES [x] NO. IF YES,
EXPLAIN FULLY:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# FITN. 3 REPORT (Part II) POTEN. L

INSTRUCTION3

FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

FOR THE SUPERVISOR This report la a privileged communication to your supervisor, and to appropriate cores management and personnel officials concerning the potential of the employee being rated. It is NOT to be sharm to the rated employee. It is recommended that you read the entire report before completing any question. This report in to be be completed only after the employee has been under, your supervision FOR AT LEAST 90 DAYS, 11 less than 90 days. hold and complete after the 90 days has elapsed. ed. If this is the INITIAL RESORT On the employee, however, it MUST be completed and forwarded to the OP no later than 30 days after the due date indicated in itea 8 of Section "Zbelow.

SECTION

ZASASIA

1. NANG(Lost)

(Pirot)

S. OFFICE/DIVISION BANCH OF ASSIGNMENT

FS, TOKYO, JAPAN

7. GRADE 8- DATE REPORT DUE IN OP

cs-11

GENERAL

(Viddle)

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEK

4. SERVICE DESIGNATION

20 Jan 1924 M DI

8. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Area Ops Officer

9. PERIOD COVERED OF THIS REPORT (Inclusive daten)

1 October 1957-9 April 1953

10. TYPE OF REPORT

(Check one)

ANNUAL

x

SPECIAL (Speakly)

Promotion

SECTION F.

CERTIFICATION

1. FOR THE DATERI 1 CCTIFY THAT THIS REPORT REPRESENTS MY DEST JUDGEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL BEING RATED

A. THIS DATE

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR C. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

27 May 1958 William E. Nelson

7. FOR THE REVIEWING OFFICIAL: I HAVE REVIEWED THIS NEPORT AND NOTEO ANY DIFFERENCE OF OPINION IN ATTACHED MEMO.

A. 418 DATE

D. TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING C. OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

OFFICIAL

27 May 1959 John F. Baker

SECTION G.

ESTIMATE OF POTENTIAL

1. POTENTIAL TO ASSUME CREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

DIRECTIONS: Consadering others of his grade and type of assignment, rate the employee's potential to assume greater responsibilities. Think in terms of the kind of responsibility encountered at the various levels in his kind of work.

5

RATING

NUMBER

7

ALREADY ABOVE THE LEVEL AT WHICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED

NAS REACHED THE HIGHEST LEVEL AT WHICH SATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE CAN BE EXPECTED"

MAKING PROGRESS, BUT NEEDS MORE TINE BEFORE HE CAN DE TRAINED TO ASSUME GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

READY FOR TRAINING IN ASSUMING GREATER RESPONSIBILITIES

WILL PROBABLY ADJUST QUICKLY TO MORE RESPONSIBLE DUTIES WITHOUT FURTHER TRAINING

ALREADY ASSUMING MORE RESPONSIBILITIES THAN EXPECTED AT HIS PRESENT LEVEL

AN EXCEPTIONAL PERSON SHO IS ONE OF THE FEW PHO SHOULD BE CONSIDERED FOR EARLY ASSUMPTION OF HIGHER LEVEL RESPONSIBILITIES

2. SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL

DIRECTIONS: Answer this question: ilas this person the ability to be a supervisor? Yes No If your Answer is-YES, indicate below your opinion of guess of the level of supervisory ability this person will reach AFTER SUITABLE TRAINING. Indicate your opinion by placing the number of the descriptive rating below which comes closest to expressing your opinion in the appropriate column. If your' rating is based on observing him supervise, note your rating-in the "actual" column. If based on opinion of his potential, note the rating in the "potential" column.

DESCRIPTIVE

MAVE NO OPINION ON HIS SUPERVISORY POTENTIAL IN THIS SITUATION

I BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE A WEAK SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SITUATION

RATING

2 BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE AN AVERAGE SUPERVISOR IN THIS KIND OF SITUATION

NUMBER

3 BELIEVE INDIVIDUAL WOULD BE A STRONG SUPERVISOR IN THIS SITUATION

ACTUAL

POTENTIAL

DESCRIPTIVE SITUATION

THE BASIC JOB (truck drivers, stenographere, techniciane or professional spe cialists of various kinda) UWERE CONTACT WITH INMEDIATE BUSORDINATES IS FREQUENT (First Line supervisor)

3

A GROUP OF SUPERVISORS TO DIRECT THE BASIC 108 (Second line supervisore)

3

A GROUP, UND WAY OR MAY NOT BE SUPERVISORS, WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MAJOR PLANE. OCATION AND POLICY (Executive level)'



3

2. 
SHEN CONTACT IN IMMEDIATE SUBORDINATED IS NOT FREQUENT

3

ΦΗΣΗ ΣΗΜΕDIATE SUDΟΠΟΙΝΑΤΕΣ ACTIVITICS ANT DIVERSE AND WEED CAREFUL cook



ente MMEDIATE SUBORDINATES INCLUDE MEMBERS OF THE OPPOSITE SER

OTHER (Specily)

HEPLACES PREVIOUS LOITIONS

FORM NO. 45 (Part 11) OF FORUS 45 AND 454 WHICH

1 VOV SS

SECRET

Potential

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

3. INDICATE THE APPROXIMATE NUMBLR DI

SECALA
(WHEN Filled T.T)

THS THE RATED EMPLOYEE MAS BEEN UNDER SUPERVISION

4. COMMENTS CONCERNING POTENTIAL

His potential for advancement is excellent. He has the right blend of operational know-how and supervisory talent to undertake postarity of widem, score, than he now holds. Although his advancement has been rapid for his ageurity, poise and corrion sense almost completely eliminate age as a factor in his potential for a more senior job.

SECTION H.

FUTURE PLANS

1. TRAINING OR OTHER DEVELOPMENTAL EXPERIENCE PLANNED FOR THE INDIVIDUAL

Subject.deserves at sometime within the next year or two the opportunity to broaden his experience either by command of a small station or advancement to a more responsible job in a large one.

2. NOTE OTHER FACTORS, INCLUDING PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES, TO BE TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT IN INDIVIDUAL'S FUTURE ASSIGNMENTS

None

SECTION 1.

DESCRIPTION OF INDIVISCAL

DIRECTIONS: This section is provided és an aid to describing the individual as you see him on the job. Interpret the words literally. On the page below are a series of statements that apply in some degree to cost people. To the left of each statement is a tios under the heading "category. Read each statement and insert in the box-the categary number which best tells how much the statement applies to the person covered by this report.

X - HAVE NOT OBSERVED THIS. HENCE CAN GIVE NO OPINION AS TO HOW THE DESCRIPTION APPLIES TO THE INDIVIDUAL

1 - APPLIES TO THE INDIVIDUAL TO THE LEAST POSSIBLE DEGREE

2. APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO A LIMITED DEGREE

3 APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN AVERAGE DEGREE

4 - APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN ABOVE, AVERAGE JEsett

5 - APPLIES TO INDIVIDUAL TO AN OUTSTANDING DEGREE

| CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                         | CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                | CATEGORY | STATEMENT                                           |
| -------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| 4        | 1. ABLE TO SEE ANOTHER'S POINT OF VIEW            | 5        | 11. KAS HIGH Standards of ACCOMPLISHMENT | 5        | 21 is ErrECTIVE IN DISCUS SIONS WITH ASSOCIATES     |
| 5        | *2 CAN MAKE ofcisions on Is овини NEED ADISE      | 4        | 12. SHOPS ORIGINAL                       | 4.       | 22. INPLEwtuts occISIONS C GARDLESS OF OWN FEELINGS |
| 4        | 3. HAS twi TIATIVE                                | 5        | 13. ACCEPTE RESPONSI                     | 4        | 23. IS THOUGHTFUL OF OTHERS                         |
| 5        | 4. IS ANALYTIC IN HIS Twing                       | 4        | 14. ADMITS HIS CROCOS                    | 4        | 24. MORAS WELL UNDER PRESSURE                       |
| 4        | 5. STRIVES CONSTANTLY FOR NEW ENOWLEDGE AND IDEAS | 4        | 15. EKSPONDS                             | 5        | 25. DISP                                            |
| 4        | 6. ENOUS UNEN TO SEEN ASSISTANCE                  | 5        | 16. DOES HIS JOB tay. STRONG SUPPORT     | 5        | 26. 18 SECURITY CONSCIOU                            |
| 4        | 7.CAN SET ALONG VITA PEOPLE                       | 5        | 17. COME                                 | 4        | 27. IS VERSATILE A                                  |
| 5        | 8. NAS wtWORT FOR 'FACTS                          | 5        | 18.-18 OBSERVANT                         | 5        | 28. HIS COLTICISM IS COM STRUCTIVE                  |
| 4        | 9. GETS THINGS DONE                               | 5        | 19. THEN CL                              | 5        | 29. FACILITATES SHOOTH OРЕВА-                       |
| 4        | 10. can COPE OF To EncaseNCIES                    | 5        | 20.                                      | 5        | 30. 004S AND CONTIONOUS ROPEavio                    |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET

SK 8.

# FITNESS REPORT (Part I) PERFORMANCE

INSTRUCTIONS

FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: Consult current instructions for completing this report.

FOR THE SUPERVISOR: This report is designed to help you express your evaluation of your subordinate and to transmit this evalustion to your supervisor end senior officials. Organization policy requires that you inform the subordinate where he stands with you. Completion of the report can help you prepare for o discussion with him of his strengths and weaknesses. It is also organization policy that you show Part Iof this report to the employee except under conditions specified in Regulation 20-370: It is recommended that you read the entire form before completing Any question. If this is the initial report on the employee, it must be completed and forwarded to the Office of Fersonnel no later than 30 days after the date indicated in item 8. of Section "A" below.

SECTION Α.

1. NAME OASIS IN

2. DATE OF BIRTH 20 Jan 1924

3. SEX M

4. SERVICE DESIGNATION DI

5. OFFICE/DIVISION/BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT FE, TOKYO, JAPAN

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE Area Ous Officer

7. GRADE GS-14

8. DATE REPORT DUE IN OP

9. PERIOD COVERED BY THIS REPORT (Inclusive dates) 1 October 1957-9 April 1958

10.. TYPE OF REPORT (Check one)

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

X SPECIAL (Specify) Pramotion

SECTION В.

1. FOR THE RATER: THIS REPORT

HAS

CERTIFICATION

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

ANNUAL

INITIAL

HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO THE INDIVIDUAL RATED. IF NOT SHOWN, EXPLAIN WHY

NOT:

A. CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE STATEMENTS!

* THIS REPORT REFLECTS MY OWN OPINIONS OF THIS INDIVIDUAL.

* THIS REPORT REFLECTS THE COMBINED OPINIONS OF MYSELF AND PREVIOUS SUPERVISORS.

* I HAVE DISCUSSED WITH THIS EMPLOYEE HIS STRENGTHS AND WEARNESSES SO THAT HE #NOWS #HERE NE STANDS.

IF INDIVIDUAL IS RATED "I"IN CT OR D. A WARNING ίετο TER WAS SENT TO HIM & A COPY ATTACHED TO THIS REPORT,

I CANNOT CERTIFY THAT THE RATED INDIVIDUAL KNOWS HO I EVALUAT HIS JOB PERFORMANCE BECAUSE (Specify):

B. THIS DATE "27 May 1958

C. TYPED OR PRINTED, NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR William E. Nelson

D. SUPERVISOR'S OFFICIAL TITLE

2. FOR THE GEVIE ING OFFICIAL: RECORD ANY SUBSTANTIAL DIFFERENCE OF OPINION WITH THE SUPERVISOR, UN ANT OTHER IN- FORMATION. WHICH WILL LEAD TO A BETTER UNDERSTANDING OF THIS REPORT.

BY

DATE 1430L

Posted res Control. 7/24/19

Reviewed by

THIS PORT ELS PEN PERPAסמס פתCE CRITERIA SOCISE AT THIS STASION AND IN CONSTANCE FITOWANE FITNESS RS430 L AS POSSIBLE

CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

I certify that any substantial difference of opinion with the supervisor is reflected in the above section.

A. THIS DATE 27 May 1958

B. TYPED OR PRINTED NAWE AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL John E. Baker

C. OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL JOB PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

SECTION C.

1. RATING ON GENERAL PERFORMANCE OF DUTIES

DIRFCTIONS: Consider ONLY the productivity and effectiveness with which the individual being rated has performed his duties during the rating, period. Compare ham ONLY with others doing similar work at a similer level of responsibility. Factors other than productivity will be taken into account later in Section D.

5/6

INSERT RATING NUMBER

*   DOES NOT PERFORM DUTIES ADEQUATELY, HE IS INCOMPETENT.

*   BARELY ADEQUATE IN PERFORMANCE ALTHOUGH HE HAS HAD SPECIFIC GUIDANCE OR TRAINING. HE OFTEN FAILS TO CARRY OUT RESPONSIBILITIES.

*   PERFORMS MOST OF HIS DUTIES ACCEPTABLY OCCASIONALLY REVEALS SOME AREA OF WEAKNESS.

*   PERFORMS DUTIES IN A COMPETENT, EFFECTIVE MANNER.

*   A FINE PERFORMANCE CARRIES OUT MANY OF HIS RESPONSIBILITIES EXCEPTIONALLY WELL.

*   PERFORMS HIS DUTIES IN SUCH AN OUTSTANDING MANNER THAT HE IS EQUALLED BY FEW OTHER PERSONS KNOWN TO THE SUPERVISOR:

COMMENTS:

FORM NO. 45 (Part 1)

REPLACES PREVIOUS EDITIONS OF FORMS 4S AND 434 WHICH SECRET Performance


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# RATINGS ON PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC VILS

(Seen Filled in)

DIRECTIONS:

a. State in the spaces below up to six of the more important SPECIFIC duties pering this rating period. Place the most important first. De not include minor or unimportant duties.

b. Rate performance on each specific duty considering ONLY effectiveness in performance of this specific duty.

c. For supervisors, ability to supervise will always be rated as a specific duty (do not rate as supervisors those who supervise a secretary only).

d. Compare in your mind, when possible, the individual being rated with others performing the same duty at a similar level of responsibility.

e. Two individuals with the same job title may be performing different duties. If so, rate them on different duties.

f. Be specific. Examples of the kind of duties that might be rated are:

ORAL BRIEFING
HAS AVD USES AREA KNOWLEDGE
MAILORDEGAS INTERROGATIONS
GIVING LECTURES
DEVELOPS NEW PROGRAMS
PREPARES SUMMARIES
CONDUCTING SEMINARS
ANALYZES INDUSTRIAL REPORTS
TRANSLATES GERVAV
WRITING TECHNICAL REPORTS
MANAGES FILES.
DEBRIEFING SOURCES
CONDUCTING EXTERNAL LIAISON
OPERATES RADIO
KEEPS BOOKS
TYPING
COORDINATES WITH OTHER OFFICES
DRIVES TRUCK
TAKING DICTATION
WRITES REGULATIONS
MAINTAINS AIR CONDITIONING
SUPERVISING
PREPARES CORRESPONDANCE
EVALUATES SIGNIFICANCE OF DATA

g. For some jobs, duties may be broken down even further if supervisor considers it advisable, e.g., combined key and phone operation, in the case of a radio operator.

1 - INCOMPETENT IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS DUTY

2 - BARELY ADEQUATE IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS DUTY

3 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY ACCEPTABLY.

4 - PERFORMS THIS OUTY IN A COMPETENT MANNER

5 - PERFORMS THIS DOTY IN SUCH A FINE MANDER THAT HE 1.5 A DISTINCT ASSET ON HIS JUS

6 - PERFORMS THIS DUTY IN AN OUTSTANDING MANNER FOUND IN VERY FEW INDIVIDUALS HOLDING SINI. LAR JOBS

7 - EXCELS ANYONE I KNOW IN THE PERFORMANCE OF THIS OUTY

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 'As branch chief directs

RATING
NUMBER
5/5
SPECIFIC DUTY NO.
Conducts liaison with other
U.S. agencies
RATING
NUMBER
6
and plans operations of denied area branch.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. Conducts operational
liaison with local security
services.

RATING
NUMBER
6
SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING
NUMBER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO.3
Develops and handles agents

RATING
NUMBER
6
SPECIFIC DORY NO.6

RATING
NUMBER

3. NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

DIRECTIONS: Stress strengths and weaknesses, particularly those which affect development on present job.

Subject is an exceedingly well-equipped operations officer. He is nature, intelligent, has a thorough background in operations in his area and the ability to grow in his job. His operational planning and execution is usually impeccable. He has the loyalty of his subordinates and the respect of his equals and super- visors. He is particularly effective in dealing in the liaison field were his good sense and disinterest in "fighting the problem" produces a maximum of cooperation and good will. If he has any rinor fault as a supervisor, it is not in impatience with his subordinates, as reflected in previous evaluations, but in an occasional unwillingness to say no to them.

SECTION D. SUITABILITY FOR CURRENT JOB IN ORGANIZATION

DIRECTIONS: Take into account here everything you know about the individual....productivity, conduct in the job, partanent personal characteristics or habits, special selects or talents....and how he fits in with your team. Come pare him with others doing similar work of about the same level.

1 - DEFINITELY UNSUITABLE HE SHOULD BE SEPARATED

2 - OF DOUBTFUL SUITABILITY... WOULD NOT HAVE ACCEPTED HIM IF I NAD KNOWS WHAT I KNOW NOO

3 - A BARELY ACCEPTABLE EMPLOYEE...DELOR AVERAGE BUT WITH NO HEARNESSES SUFFICIENTLY OUTSTANDING TO WAR- SANT HIS SEPARATION

4 - OF THE SAME SUITABILITY AS MOST PEOPLE AND IN THE ORGANIZATION

5 - A FINE EMPLOYEE NAS SOME OUTSTANDING STRENGTHS

6 - AN UNUSUALLY STRONG PERSON IN TERMS OF THE NEQUIREMENTS OF THE ORGANIZATION

7 - EXCELLED BY ONLY A FEW IN SUITABILITY FCR WORK IN THE ORGANIZATION

RATING
NUMBER.
6
IS THIS INDIVIDUAL BETTER SUITED FOR BORA IN SOME OTHER POSITION IN THE ORGANIZATION?

EXPLAIN FULLY:

YES

NO. IF YES.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

# FITNESS REPORT

## SECTION A

1. NAME CASASIN GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX 4. GRADE
   20 January 1924 M GS-14

3. SERVICE DESIGNATION 6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE 7.OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT
   SR, Tokyo, Japan

4. CAREER STAFF STATUS 9. TYPE OF REPORT

NOT ELIGIBLE MEMBER DEFERRED INITIAL REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR
PENDING DECLINED DENIED ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specify)

10. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P. 11. REPORTING PERIOD
    31 May 1959 10 Apr 58 - 31 Mar 59

## SECTION B EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 - Unsatisfactory 2 - Barely adequate 3 - Acceptable 4 - Competent 5 - Excellent 6 - Superior 7 - Outstanding

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 RATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 RATING
NO. NO.
Supervises and directs operational branch of some 17 persons 5 Case officer 6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 RATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 RATING
NO. NO.
Conducts operational liaison with local intelligence and security services 6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 RATING SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 RATING
NO. NO.
Conducts liaison with U.S. military and civilian intelligence services 6

## SECTION C EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position - performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 - Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2 - Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3 - Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4 - Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5 - Performance in every important respect is superior.
6 - Performance in every respect is outstanding. 5

## SECTION D DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee.

1 - Least possible degree 2 - Limited degree 3 - Normal degree 4 - Above average degree 5 - Outstanding degree

| CHARACTERISTICS                                                 | NOT APPLICABLE | NOT SERVED | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GETS THINGS DONE                                                |                |            |     |     |     |     | X   |
| RESOURCEFUL                                                     |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                                        |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES                  |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                             |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE                      |                |            |     |     | X   |     |     |
| WRITES EFFECTIVELY                                              |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| SECURITY CONSCIOUS                                              |                |            |     |     | X   |     |     |
| THINKS CLEARLY                                                  |                |            |     |     | X   |     |     |
| DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS |                |            |     |     |     |     | X   |
| OTHER (Specify):                                                |                |            |     |     |     |     |     |

SEE SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECTION E NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOS PERFORMANCE

Stress strengths and weaknessos daimonstra ncurrent position. Indicate suggestion's ma employed for Improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training: Describe, of appropriate, his potential for deve..pment and for assuring greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, il appropriate, ratings given in SECTIONS B, C, and D to provide the best basis for Jetermining lúture personnel actions.

![mail room stamp]

Subject continues as one of the most capable, professióralan continue the against a tough denied area problem, he demonstrates imagination, drive, excellent area background and knowledge, and a high degree of productivity. He definitely has the potential for an even more responsible position.

# SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

27 April 1959 signed on transmittal

2. BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

22

IF REPORT IS NOT BEING MADE AT THIS TINE, GIVE REASON.

DATE EMPLOYEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAN DJ DAYS REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST 90 DAYS
OTHER (Specify)

27 April 1959 OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
DC Tokyo Station William Nelson
signed on transmittal

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A NIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION.

I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

27 April 1959 C/Toko Station John E. Baker signed on transmittal

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# FITNESS REPORT

SECRET

SECTION A

1. NAME

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH:
   20 Jan 1924

3. SEX: M

4. GRADE: GS-14

5. SERVICE DESIGNATION: DI

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE:

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT: FE/Tokyo Sta/SR

8. CAREER STAFF STATUS:

TYPE OF REPORT:

NOT ELIGIBLE
MEMBER
INITIAL
REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR

PENDING
DECLINED
DEFERRED
ANNUAL
X REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE

9. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
10. REPORTING PERIOD:
    1 Apr 59-24 June 60

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1 - Unsatisfactory 2 - Barely adequate 3 - Acceptable 4 - Competent 5 - Excellent 6 - Superior 7 - Outstanding

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Chief, Soviet Branch, responsible for activities of 24 staff and 6 contract employees

RATING NO.: 6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Case officer

RATING NO.: 5/6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Responsible for station SR planning, budgeting, and operating activities

RATING NO.: 6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Representing the station at varied levels in all SR matters

RATING NO.: 6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position - performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 - Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2 - Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3 - Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4 - Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5 - Performance in every important respect is superior.
6 - Performance in every respect is outstanding.

RATING NO.: 5

SECTION D

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee

1 - Least possible degree 2 - Limited degree 3 - Normal degree 4 - Above average degree 5 - Outstanding degree

| CHARACTERISTICS                                                 | NOT APPLICABLE | NOT OBSERVED | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | RATING |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
| GETS THINGS DONE                                                |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| RESOURCEFUL                                                     |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                                        |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES                  |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                             |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE                      |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| WRITES EFFECTIVELY                                              |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| SECURITY CONSCIOUS                                              |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| THINKS CLEARLY                                                  |                |              |     |     |     |     | X   |        |
| DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |        |
| OTHER (Specify):                                                |                |              |     |     |     |     |     |        |

SEE SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIDE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# SECTION E NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrat 'n current position. Indicate suggestions mad employee for improvement of his-
work. Give recommendations is for his remy scribe, il appropriate, histor yent and for ossuming greater re
Isponsibilities. . Amplify or explain, if eperepriate, ratings given in SECTIONS B, C, and to provied the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

In most respects, this officer is one of the besty I have kigug in this agency. He has a broad and deep mowledge of his target area, as b his "host" country; an excellent and proven degree of operational "know-how"; the ability to write and speak lucidly and effectively and with apparent ease; and very high degree of motivation and devotion to duty. He can be expected to continue his dynamic and imaginative pursuit of a most difficult target. It is my opinion that this officer has great potential and is ready for increased responsibilities which would involve the promotion for which he has been recommended. As for training, a good managerial course might help to bring into even sharper focus his many talents.

This report has been prepared in accordance with FE Division standards which recognize the principle of rating the individual against the group. Thus an 'average' rating reflects an entirely satisfactory performance.

# SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. 
BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

DATE 23. June 1960 SIGNATURE OF PLOYEE Zes/ on transaittel

2. 
BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION-

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT DEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

IF SEPORT IS NOT BEING MADE AS THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

EMPLOVER UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAN 90 DAYS REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST 93 DAYS

OTHER (Specily):

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

23 June 1960 Adei Brindle(P) signed on transmittal

3. 
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A NIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION.

I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS, I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TYPEO OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

COS, Tokyo John Baker/s/ on transmittal

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

1. NAME

Nirgi J. Casasin

2. DATE OF BIRTH

20 January 1924

3. SEX
   M

4. GRADE
   GS-14

5. SERVICE DESIGNATION
   D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Branch Chief

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT
   OC/SR/6

8. CAREER STAFF STATUS

9. TYPE OF REPORT

NOT ELIGIBLE
MEMBER
INITIAL
REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR

PENDING
DEFERRED
X ANNUAL
REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE

DECLINED
DENIED
SPECIAL (Specify)

10. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

11. REPORTING PERIOD
    July 1960-October 61

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

1. Unsatisfactory 2. Barely adequate 3. Acceptable 4. Competent 5. Excellent 6. Superior 7. Outstanding

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 Supervises large functional branch of thirty-seven staff and fifteen contract personnel.
RATING
NO.
5
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 Conducts liaison with various components of the Agency and with other agencies.
RATING
NO.
6
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 Plans and programs for operations support, including initiation of new support activities.
RATING
NO.
5
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 Prepares and presents briefings.
RATING
NO.
6
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 Supervices preparation of, and sometimes personally prepares, special studies both on own initiative and on request.
RATING
NO.
5
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 Supervises maintenance of SR Division records on Soviet defectors, supports exploitation of defectors and participates in their resettlement.
RATING
NO.
5
SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position - performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 - Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2 - Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3 - Performance clearly meets basic requirements;
4 - Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements,
5 - Performance in every important respect is superior.
6 - Performance in every respect is outstanding.

RATING
NO.
5

SECTION D

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rating boxes below, chock (X) the degree to which cach characteristic applies to the employes

1- Least possible degree 2- Limited degree 3- Normal degree 4- Above avaroge degree 5- Outstanding degree

| CHARACTERISTICS                                                 | NOT APPLICABLE | NOT SERVED | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GETS THINGS DONE                                                |                |            |     |     |     |     | X   |
| RESOURCEFUL                                                     |                |            |     |     |     |     | X   |
| ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                                        |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEFD ARISES                  |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                             |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE                      |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| WRITES EFFECTIVELY                                              |                |            |     |     |     |     | X   |
| SECURITY CONSCIOUS                                              |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| THINKS CLEARLY                                                  |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS |                |            |     |     |     | X   |     |
| OTHER (Specify):                                                |                |            |     |     |     |     |     |

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SEE SECTION 'E' ON REVERSE SIDE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECTION E NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE
Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstra ncurrent position. Indicato suggestions του amployee for improvement of his
work: Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development vind for assuming greater re
Sponsibilities. Armalify or explain, if appropriate, rutings given in SECTIONS B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining
future personnel actions.

Mr. has a good knowledge of Soviet matters anderally is very well informed. He continually demonstrates much initiative and a high degree of productivity. He is stimulating to his associates, businesslike and delegates work easily. He appears very self-confident and he is dynamic.

Mr. supervises a very large and key branch engaged in a wide variety of activities, a difficult job which he does well.

SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. BY EMPLOYEE
   I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

DATE 9 November 1961

2. BY SUPERVISOR
   IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION
Twelve

IF REPORT IS NOT BEING MADE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.
EMPLOYEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAN 90 DAYS REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST 90 DAYS
OTHER (Specily):

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
9 November 1961 SR/Chief of Plans and Operations

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
   X I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.
   I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.
   I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION.
   I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS. I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE 21 NOV

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TYPED OF OR PRINTED PRINTED NAME NAME AND AND SIGNATURE SIGNATUR
Chief, SR Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

6 August 1962

Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report

Subject:

My last statements concerning the performance of should be extended to cover the remainder of his service as Chief of SR/6. He departed headquarters for a field assignment 31 July 1962.

![signature of Quentin C. Johnson]

QUENTIN C. JOHNSON
Chief of Operations and Plans
SR Division

CONCUR:

![signature of Howard J. Osborn]
HOWARD J. OSBORN
Chief, SR Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

6 August 1962

Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report

Subject:

My last statements concerning the porformance of
should be extended to cover the
remainder of his service as Chief of SR/S. He de-
parted headquarters for a field assigment 31 July.
1932.

![signature of the Chief of Operation and Plans Division]

C. Johnson
Chief of Operations and Plans
Division

CONCUR:

![signature of the Chief, SR Division]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)