104-10176-10010 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

ROLANDO MASFERRER, JR. A-16-88-46

BUSINESS:

Subject is the Vice President of Sales at the following Corporation:

A168762 - Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs, Georgia


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

UNCI SSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/ Request No. E17-250
Document Description:
Dated:
Document Located by: DCD
Document referred to DCO for review by:

RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with ________ prior to above denial/release

EXCEPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                             | FOIA   | PRIVACY                                                         |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| () Classification                                           | (b)(1) | (k)(1)                                                          |
| () Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                                    |
| () Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                                    |
| (-) Information which would/could identify the source       | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| ( ) Information pertaining to a source                      | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| (-) Information pertaining to intelligence methods          | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| () Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| () Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| ( ) Name of CIA employee                                    | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                                       |
| () File number                                              | (b)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| () Pseudonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| () Cryptozym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| () Internal organizational data                             | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(c)                                                       |
| () Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b)(7) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| () FBI file number                                          | (b)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                                       |
| ( ) Privacy of other individual                             | (b)(6) | (j)(1)(f)                                                       |
| () Does not pertain to request                              | N/A    | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" (j)(1)(c) |
| () Information from another Government agency               | (b)(1) |                                                                 |
| *() Other, specify:                                         |        |                                                                 |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

Document No. (To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E 2 INDEF CL BY:

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Chief, Contact Division
Attn: Deputy Branch
DATE 22 July 1964

FROM: Chief, CI/OPS

SUBJECT: Interview With William Dye, Sabana Grande and CI/RIS Historical Data

1.  William Dye, born at Waynesboro, N.C., 23 June 1896, sailed for Dutch West Indies on the **_Priscilla_** sometime after WWI. He never applied for citizenship, would sign any statement in gratitude for the opportunity to ballot for an elimination of the embargo.

2.  Physically, Dye gave the appearance of having been down on his luck for some time. He mentioned to a Venezuelan waitress, and his wife and two children live at Maracaibo, Venezuela. He is a layman operator of production ... ... ... ... in Venezuela. He lived in Cleveland on or about 11 August, and has been on the Detroit VAMES Hospital since that date. He carries a passport no. 25086, valid at Maracaibo, Venezuela on 17 Jul 52. Dye has a sister-in-law, Irma Palazzi, whom he describes as a pro-Castro news-paperman of Maracaibo, Director of Accion Democratica. The following is the gist of what he told in the course of the two and a half hour interview.

3.  Communist-Socialist Anti-Aurora Movement: Through his sister-in-law, Gus Simal, a reporter for the Diario de Venezuela, Dye states that in 1956 a Titan Bloepartz introduced him to people connected with an anti-Betancourt movement, comprised mainly of Nicaraguan exiles in Venezuela. Dye values the information that they would have employed him, but he found out the movement was aided by the Communist Party of Venezuela, and so he dropped them.

4.  Shortly after his meeting with the anti-Betancourists, Dye came in contact with a Senor Zavala, Director of the Fallido dose lari, and head of the July Movement in Maracaibo. Zavala was under the impression that Dye was using him to run arms into Cuba, and expressed an interest in using him to run arms into Cuba, and expressed an interest in using him to run arms into Cuba, This was prior to the Batista overthrow in January 1959.

5.  Dye took a job in Miami, working on armament on a lingering operation. In July 1960, he met a man name Eugenio Somarriba, who introduced him to Listermer frock Cox into the anti-Castro group. Listermer frock Cox using him in his job in the airline

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

8. When Masferrer started actively recruiting Americans
   for the raiders of the Masferrer
   He swindled two of the raiders of the Masferrer alatia out of each one on the pretext of taking their from home to lave them cashed for him.

9. Nation of Russ Marker: From Masferrer actively recruiting Americans that he did not make any effort to check them out. Among them were Russ Marker who claimed to be an olympian to the service of Castro. He claimed he was in a tar or the Masferrer task force's barracks at 2091 NW with Machin, Juan (also shown as at secret police. which he could not name. There were many other Cubans and Americans as well. Juan Portuguese who claimed to have entered the US legally at Key West. His claims survived from his musical talents, but he proved to adopt as military experience, but he proved to adapt at military later beyond in command of the task force. The former Castro policeman was in early 20's, about six feet tall, husky build and claimed to have been a schoolteacher. In the course of the evening at the bar, one of the -- Masin, Juan, or the secret policeman- made the remark that, on the occasion of trying landing in Cuba, they should break away from the Masferrer group and try to link up with some other. Gee overhead the remarks and reported is to the task force, though he could not identify which of the three had talk out of the task force, but Masferrer the dissident remark. As a was strongly suspected being the author of the dissident remark. As a result of this suspicion, marker was not allowed to take any firearms with him when he group unit into training on Nodeke key. Gee, however, was allowed to take a .25 pistol. Besides Gee's weapon, the only other firearms at 40-share initially were a 12-gauge shotgun and a .22 rifle. Marker was unable to keep up with the rigorous physical training schedule of the group, and so absented himself from that part of training. Marker adopted the habit sa rising early in the morning and springs out to hunt in the woods. Larios manage somehow to appropriate the .22 rifle. Ferone got general attitude toward the training, plus who suspected that scurrilous advertising remark in the West Mr. an acute between him and the group leader at Mockane, Layo. also known as Rig Laya, was a former police sergeant who had been tried as a communist.

Lago proposed waiting it out with Washen, but Marker declines invitation. Masferrer visited No-More once in the company of Crng ...
and tamil in Kousa. Hasferrer brought with his a job service automatic ad a
Harana-rifle. Rere given bow lady by Masferrer, upon his departure the next day. in the contact of the had been a RV men in Batistata's army and
claimed to have killed Comparona was married to an American Negroes
who lived in Miami. Marker arose early the morning and eating, according to his makers in the camp heart meets. And then went shooting.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

14-00000

then tasse. Bishop now wants time to Little Key. Now wants all. Bishop has to take charge of them tasse. Bishop now wants one way as Little Key. supplies where er, and then returned to Miami. Bishop interpreted the group as being a repeater, and to one would take orders from him. He is to the informer group after the return to Miami, but Henry thereafter contacted him and state Miami is filled.

9. BILL HARVEY contacted —- with Gonzalez-Rommill. Cee visits in his apartment in Miami, and described it to F. Former expensive set-up. Called F. “Tonto”. On careers advisor to police. Miami, gave him a report. He had a dis- Mission. At the conclusion of the cuil. Rump appeared upset, and explained that road been Camden an expay-off. is continued to see that all information a Labermilla sent to Chi. He said he was set up with Catana one from like selling off.

10. Other members of the Vasferrer group includes Konny Froyter, one man known as “Duke”, furthermore identified. Find Former Assistant to Vasfererr. Find three others a total of. Former to Viter, and his wife. In arrange for in article burn bad “Walter is displaced Vasfererr. This is displaced Vasfererr. He was was misplaced 3-

*Former group there was also a —- Henry (Cazmotto). Henry, with a blond mustache, claimed to be a Common and a final sympathizer. Henry tried to arrange to be on with torcubes for the purpose of Russian shipping on routes to Cuba. In the vicinity of the Bahamas. Henny Proctor got drunk one night, on the hospital. This release fro the hospital. Henry moved in with the Millers. The family of the along with. Saria and Thompson. Formerly, incidentally, claimed to have been a FOC of the Communists in Harana, one of the famous H or so who refused regim in 1953.

11. Breaking of the Vasferrer group, somewhere small early October 1961, then Vasferrer was asked by the police to close up the barracks. The members of the group were nearly all that broke. Case While the house outside the car. Julio went into the house and Cas le ton is


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

od some names. Niy of them an MRE, in a group before the payoff, as needed a t. at Warehouse, who has the dollar for someone saying to reach a "transfer" camp there. They were probably, (illegible), they wised up instead on living on unrented and abandoned property, to do as they wish. Che added he supposedly that that group of the M-26-7. broke a small group of the mercenaries that I know from the revolution intending of going to Cuba. They were picked up by that police before they got out of the harbor.

12. MRE Anti-Castro Clan activity in the Miami area, drifting to Que. Gee says she promises, or warns.

(Cee says that he gave the following direction of Agent Peralta of the Cuellar organization, whose residence is at S.W. 152th 87th Ave., Maimi. Cee says she promises, or warns, and sees to their delivery on target.

13. Alvarez-Backed-Baracourt Plan: (Cee says that he gave someone to his phone call sometime
    cometime early this week to "Apollo" (made an inquiry), sometime early this week. Cee upon hearing that Des
    Vasconciello, who interpreted in Faraouito, introduced him to one Jose Phillip Proto of 1095 Collins Ave., Miami. Proto arranged an interview for Torres a Miguel Tanonoi. Proto was interested to join in as the role of on-support movement in Italy. Vasconciello told Cee and Davis as they would organize and are a group of 400 ex-rebels. For unrestrained unlimited cash would be to their disposal for the task. Casanova said all kinds of arms would be needed, including artillery and flame throwers. It was most inter-ested in whether or not Cas tell Davis had any channel for procuring the arms. They aspired Casanova, they could raise the 400 men and obtain the desired arms and equip-ment. Castrova said he had already arranged approoriation for the force via mountain site "Flaming" canices. Casanova
    would be given 30 more dangerous Venezuelan army officers. Casanova discussed the complete, and they would be given 30 Venezuelan army officers. Casanova discussed the complete, and they would be given 30 dangerous Venezuelan army officers, Training under the direction of Impasse-spending Venezuelan army officers. Casanova disclosed that the tentative plan was for an attack by the FDD on Caracas, simult-aneously with an Army revolt within the city and at other unspecfied points. The attempted coup in early morning of attach on Radio Caracas, resulted in the arrest of several amy officers involved in the Corcova plot, and according to Proto, necessitated an Indefinite delay. Proto told Cee, however that Perez-Jimenez is still interested in the plan, and that it would to carried out.

14. CORAL GABLES, with RELOJITA (NFI) RODRIQUEZ, who lives with RELOJITA (NFI) RODRIQUEZ, Former MRE man of the hotel in Miami. Hope to see the. Was provided with one thousand dollars for expenses, he would go to Bolivia and buy any kind of arms needed, and he

would guarantee delivery to any part of the world. Another former owner with than he
lived in contact. Was C. Astly Allen, 1910 9th Ave., Miami, telephone number PA 1-2764. Adams told Cee that he could obtain, for 12/5.00 cash on Adams orders one thousand, a weapon described as Antro-Pice (Unidentified), the NATO ammunition. Adams told Cee that the contacted Nat Castillo, 2921 S.W. 61st St., Miami. He provided Cee with a list of surplus us arms which he could obtain in any quantities desired.

HH-781)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

![photograph of document page with illegible text and markings]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET ☐ TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/ Request No. F77-260
Document Description:
Dated:
Document Located By: DCD
Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with _______ prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                              | FOIA   | PRIVACY                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| ( ) Classification                                           | (b)(1) | (k)(1)                                                |
| ( ) Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                          |
| ( ) Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                          |
| ( ) Information which would/could identify the source        | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Information pertaining to a source                       | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Information pertaining to intelligence methods           | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Name of CIA employee                                     | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                             |
| ( ) File number                                              | (b)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Pseudonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Cryptonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Internal organizational data                             | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                             |
| ( ) Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b)(7) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) FBI file number                                          | (b)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| ( ) Privacy of other individual                              | (b)(6) | (j)(1)(f)                                             |
| (*) Does not pertain to request                              | N/A    | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" |
| ( ) Information from another Government agency               | (b)(1) | (j)(1)(c)                                             |
| *(*) Other, specify:                                         |        |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

[Signature] DCD DCD may 77

Document No.:
(To be completed by ISS/PI(CG)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET ☐ TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

REPORT NO CO-A(I)3,25,678

DATE OF INFO:

PLACE &
DATE ACQ

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

Eduardo Suarez Rivas

4766 Alton Road

SOURCE: When notified. A-12 703, age 59.

Former chief of a tourist concession at Havana Riviera Hotel for three years. Served a prison term at Isle of Pines for being anti-Castro. After 33 months on 24 Dec 73 with 2500 bridget prisoners. Some studied three years of law at Villanueva University in Havana. Speaks English fluently. Appears to be very pro-US. (One of a series of reports from this source).

*This report was developed by an Air Force representative assigned to the office of collection*

1. The following US citizens were in Circular 4, Isle of Pines Prison, as of 24 Dec 73:

a. Robert Jean Coattica, age 30-35, 6'2", 150 lbs, brown eyes and hair, divorced; home address: 1517 Kelso Ave, Cleveland, Ohio. He was caught in the Copacabana Hotel, Miramar, Havana, in December 1962 for being a counterrevolutionary. He allegedly belonged to a secret anti-Castro movement. He was supposed to have helped in an uprising in the Escambray Mountains in early 1961. He is serving a 15-year prison term. He is in urgent need of medical care, has a stomach ulcer, and is losing weight badly. He has lost 70 lbs since he has been in prison. I saw him before I left. He is nothing but skin and bones.

b. Gustavo Landrine, 5'10", 155 lbs, dark brown eyes and fair; married; home address: 2015 Dorschil Blvd, Baltimore, Md. He was caught on north coast of Cuba because of counterrevolutionary activities in 1961 traveling in a yacht with seven or eight other Americans. He is serving a 25 to 30-year prison term. He has lost some weight but otherwise is doing fine. I saw him and talked to him before I left.

c. Peter Lodine, age 21, 5'10", 175 lbs, dirty blond hair, from Bahama. His father is an American. His mother is Bahamian. He was an airplane pilot and water skiing and sky diving instructor in the Bahamas. He was caught in the Pilar del Rio Mountains, in the summer of 1970 fighting with a group of anti-Castro guerrillas. He is not a very intelligent boy and keeps to himself. Walks with a limp caused by an airplane accident.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

3. 
* * * blond hair,
      to to

was caught two now. La no fore

officer (Cuban parents),
eyes; home address: 121 In.
:ife's a

plene b
ft hand of el Jertvo.

an the Cuben

10", 190 15, and holy caue :
1061 11: a beaten th
9", 175 15, black hair, aran ayat
2-
al health, lost a 10%
10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

-3-

another US citizen in the Court or St. John's Hotel in Havana in 1961 planting a microphone and wire recorder in the wall between air treatment as that of a Chinese dude, I believe. The engineer, I believe, was of the first couple on the Ocean. He is also serving a 15-year term at Isle of Pines.

3. Jose Loumiet; 5'10", 175 lbs, brown eyes, black hair; lives in Alabama; Box 14, 1724 1st Ave, Jacksonville, North Carolina. He may be the engineer the man dealt with formerly mentioned above. His health is fair. He is also serving a 15-to 20-year term.

4. Joe Cream; 20-30, 5'10", 160 lbs, brown hair and eyes; home address unknown. He is very quiet, soft-spoken, well-educated, keeps to himself. He is the practical engineer who was caught with Hernandez. He is also serving a long prison term.

5. Leonardo Schubert; 21 years old, 5'10", 150 lbs, dirty blond hair, eyes; high school graduate; home address unknown. He is very healthy, quiet, plays chess all the time, stays with the US group. He was one of the several caught in the yacht with the US citizens on the north coast of Cuba with Dunbrunt. He is serving a 15- to 20-year prison term for counterrevolutionary activities.

6. Alfred O'Brien, 25-35, 5'10", 150 lbs, fair health, Southern accent, fair education. Kept with the rest of the US citizens. I believe he has also caught in the same yacht with Dunbrunt. He is also serving a long prison term.

7. Richard Allen Navarro, 30-35, 5'8", 150 lbs, dark brown hair, blue eyes; home address unknown. He is completely crazy, of irrational behavior, tried to escape in one of the big truck cans. Has had several characters in the hospital several times. Two prisoners that are psychiatrists have been trying to help him, but in vain. He was allegedly caught in the Embajador curtain and arrested for being a counterrevolutionary. He was caught in late 1960 or early 1961. He is serving a 15-year term. Sometimes goes in a ball and day talking to himself.

8. Warren Murphy; 32-35?, 5'10", 140 lbs, brown eyes and hair, unfamiliar (Korean parents). Korean War veteran. His wife is US citizen (Colonia Garcia). Korean War veteran. His wife (Peggy) and two daughters are residing in Miami. He is in fair health. He was arrested in Havana in 1961 for being a counterrevolutionary.

9. Richard (Levi), 20-30, 5'9", 150 lbs, light-brown hair, blue eyes, home address unknown; a Southerner, high school education. He was also caught in the yacht with Dunbrunt, who was allegedly working for Rolando Zentining. He worked in a New York resort center before going to Cuba.

These are all the US citizens that I know about who are at the Isle of Pines prison now.

-end-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SLCPET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description:

Document Located By: DCD

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                              | FOLA   | PRIVACY                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------ | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| ( ) Classification                                           | (b)(1) | (k) (1)                                               |
| ( ) Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| ( ) Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| ( ) Information which would/could identify the source        | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Information pertaining to a source                       | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Information pertaining to intelligence methods           | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Name of CIA employee                                     | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| ( ) File number                                              | (b)(2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Pseudonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Cryptonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Internal organizational data                             | (b)(3) | (j) (1.) (e)                                          |
| ( ) Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b)(7) | (j) (1) (১)                                           |
| ( ) FEI file number                                          | (b)(2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| ( ) Privacy of other individual                              | (b)(6) | (j) (1) (F)                                           |
| ( ) Does not pertain to request                              | N/A    | "Exempted pustions are not relevant to the requester" |
| ( ) Information from another Government agency               | (b)(1) | (1) (1) (c)                                           |
| *() Other, specify:                                          |        |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HI-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![signature] DCD may 77

Document No. (To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E. 2 IMPDET CL BT:

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTY DATA: Undetermined, Cuban criminals and
targeted ROC elements currently residing
in the Hialeah/Little Havana area in Havana.

REPORT NO: 00-LN-3,245,00
DATE DISTR: June 5'76
NO. PAGES: 2

DATE OF INFO: May 12 - May 12
REFERENCES:

SUBJECT: [information]

1.  Subject is a Cuban national, A 12 856 751, who arrived in the US on 16 Sep 62 as a political refugee.

    *   Source is a Cuban of counterintelligence orientation and was employed as a clerk by the Honduranian Embassy until September 1972.
    *   This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.

2.  The majority of the Cuban employees in the Honduragian Embassy were bonifide victims of the Communist regime. However, during the time I served as secretary of the Embassy I observed that some men and women of unsavory reputation entered the Embassy as political refugees. The following are those whom I consider to be undesirable: Manuel Mante, organizer of the G-2 activities in the Isle of Pines and who exacted many onerous sums of the routine, ensured the swift betting arrests for those narcotics activities and embezzlement of public funds. Mante is an accomplished boxer and terrorized the rest of the capital with the clandestine display of weapons he brought into the Embassy. As far as I can remember he is still in the Embassy.

3.  Juan Garcia Menocal, a Morel Keller who was one of the most notorious members of the regime, as the "Iron Hand" agent of Former Senator Rolando Larrury. Garcia organized numerous executions, organized by the executioner Erasmo Garcia, Jr. Garcia and his son are in jail.

4.  Among the numerous G2 agents were: Vieron [illegible], an outspoken Party guy. [illegible] [illegible] [illegible], Miami, Florida. Dennis [illegible] [illegible] who is presently in the area of [illegible] [illegible]. Recently made member of the [illegible] [illegible], translator [illegible] [illegible] [illegible]. Julia [illegible] a communist by translator [illegible] [illegible] [illegible]. Jorge Fiumi Castro baby [illegible] [illegible] [illegible] [illegible] He supposedly working in the automobile [illegible] [illegible], teaches travel with a view of [illegible] [illegible] a commercial pilot.

3
4
1
3
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT

1.  Assume Emilio, a member of a working family from Consolacion de Cuba, served as protector Informer during the early days of the Revolution and gave many Cubans to the firing squad. This man was his contact in Mexico. Emilio's testimony a newly scheduled double who kept the G-2 informed concerning the exiles' activities.

-end-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

FOIA/Request No. 17-260

Document Description:

Dated:

Document Located by: DCD

(OFFICE DESIGNATION)

Document referred to ECO for review by:

RECOMMEND:

Release in full-text

Release in sanitized form

Deny in toto

Defer decision to

Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                          | FOIA    | PRIVACY                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Classification                                           | (b) (1) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| (*) Information which would/could Identify the source    | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| (-) Information pertaining to a source                   | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| (Information pertaining to intelligence methods          | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Name of CIA employee                                     | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| File number                                              | (b) (2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Pseudonym                                                | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Cryptonym                                                | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Internal organizational data                             | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b) (7) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| FBI file number                                          | (b) (2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| Privacy of other individual                              | (b) (6) | (j) (1) (f)                                           |
| (-)Does not pertain to request                           | N/A     | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" |
| Information from another Government agency               | (b) (1) | (j) (1) (c)                                           |
| () Other, specify:                                       |         |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DCA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HW-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![Signature of review officer and office]

DCD

May 77

Document No.

(To be completed by ISS/FICC)

E 2 IMPORT CL BY:

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

UNITED STATES GOVERMENT

# Memorandum

TO : Chief, Caracas Aviation

ATTN : Support Branch

FROM : Chief, Miami Field Office

SUBJECT: Plan to Unite the Cuban Exiles

OOKS13,28720

DATE: 8-11 1963

1. At their request, Luis S. Rodriguez met with Dr. Ricardo Rafael Sardinas, secretary of the Cuban Cane Planters Association in Exile and with Juan Aragon ----, Cuban Senator and editor of the Spanish language radio newspaper "El Periodico (1 Harey)---. It was advised that they have been meeting with several personalities of exile colony in an effort to organize all the exiles into a single group which will represent all exiles regardless of former affiliations.

2. They feel that after the sorry spectacle provided by the Cuban Revolutionary Council, they must avoid getting involved in matters which are in conflict with the policies of the US. Government. Therefore, they would like to discuss this project with Mr. Josh Orimins.

3. The following personalities have been approached and have indicated their desire to cooperate to the fullest extent in an effort to unite all the Cubans in exile: Aaronio Manuel de Varona, Dr. Julio Truscott, Carlos Erig, Mr. Carlos Numan Scaring, Carlos Frio, Mr. Jose Ignacio Pinedo, Sove Alverna Diaz, Jose Manoly Hernandez Sanchez, Mr. Groce Conce. Humber Anting, Vassilis Livarts, Orlando Cuervo Chicas, Felipe Perez, Mr. Morte Souta, Mr. Dominole Rivell, Mr. Voravo Guere Rubio. Also included in this roster are General Centeno Comaz Hergueta, Veterina of the War of Independence, and Facundo Erregera, Founder of the transportation Workers, because both are Negroes.

4. Representatives of the Medical Association, Education, Teacher and Newspaper Associations and the Students Directorate have also been contacted and indicated their desire to assist in this endeavor.

5. Amadeo and Sardinas stressed that former President Frio indicated that former members of the Castro regime who are exiled in the US should also be invited to join because their presence in the organization will indicate to the people of Cuba that the aim of the organization is not the return to certain conditions that prevailed before Jan 59. Dr. Frio reiterated that with former Fildelistas joining the organization that members of the infantry and the militia plus our government bureaucracy will not fear reprisals if and when the Castro regime is ousted. Dr. Frio added that with news such as Felipe Lanze, Mr. Moscuete, Andy Mitr--and even counterrevolutinal people like Ray, the chances of defeat by members of the Armed Forces will decrease.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

-2-

6. The organization will also invite to join any revolutionist friends who served under the Batista Administration and who were part of the bill of health after the Revolution. However, such extremist elements like Colonels Antorat, Marrero, Colonelo Carmingnat, Gittin, Rescaldo Garcia Lueza and others, will not be admitted. Alsy Monayo and his group will not be invited because they are considered to be agent provocateurs.

7. If this works out, the new organization will be ruled by a five man board selected by a general assembly of all the above mentioned personalities. The chairmanship of the board will be rotated periodically.

![signature]

JUSTIN CLIGEAUF

LERodriguez:cs

cc: SAS, Miami

![handwritten text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET ☐ TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description:

Document Located By: DCD

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMEND:
* Release in full-text
* Release in sanitized form
* Deny in toto
* Defer decision to Coordination with _______ prior to above dental/release

FOIA/ Request No. E17-260

Dated: July 1972

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

FOIA
PRIVACY

() Classification (b)(1) (k)(1)

() Information from a foreign liaison service (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)

() Information pertaining to a foreign liaison (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)(c)
relationship

(b) Information which would/could identify the (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
source

() Information pertaining to a source (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

() Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

() Location of CIA overseas installation (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

() Location of unacknowledged domestic (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)
installation

() Name of CIA employee (b)(3) (j)(1)(e)

() File number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

() Pseudonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

() Cryptonym (b)(3) (j)(1)(b)

() Internal organizational data (b)(3) (j)(1)(c)

() Name of an FBI agent (b)(7) (j)(1)(b)

() FBI file number (b)(2) (j)(1)(b)

() Privacy of other individual (b)(6) (j)(1)(f)

() Does not pertain to request N/A "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester"

() Information from another Government agency (b)(1) (j)(1)(c)

*() Other, specify:

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![signature] DCD may 77

SIGNATURE OF REVIECHING OFFICER & OFFICE

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET ☐ TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# CONFIDENTIAL

Chief, Washington Field Office 16-88-6

12 July 1972

Director, Domestic Contact Service (OSS)
A-162346 A-168762

Rolando Masferrer Jr., Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs, Georgia

REF: Van Happer/Masulin telecons

A-127900

1. Attached per referent telephone conversations is copy of Dun and Bradstreet report as requested on Military Armament
   that Chairman of the Board, is Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III. Werbell is a former Office of Strategic Services (OSS) officer known to this writer during assignments in China during WWII.

2. This Agency, as well as other government agencies, have considerable information on Werbell. He is an old and unsavory, unsolicited, contact of the Miami Field Office dating from 1959. He is of dubious character and reputation who had and has been involved in grandiose schemes and international arms deals. He has had perpetual financial difficulties.

3. Werbell was involved with Rolando Masferrer Senior, in connection with the abortive Haitian invasion in 1967. This may throw a different light on possible source development of young Rolando Jr. Any approach to him should be executed with some degree of caution. We do not desire to get involved with Werbell. However, we cannot foresee any objection to planned debriefings of Masferrer Jr., following his trips to Latin America and other areas, in pursuit of FPI and possible information of operational significance.

4. If we can be of further assistance in this matter, please advise.

JAMES R. MURPHY

Attachment GSMasulin/11d
cc: Services Division (Control)
FILED: HR 23880

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON APPROVAL OF DCI

CLASSIFIED BY 42-1445

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E. O. 11652 EXEMPTION

![photo of exemptions from general declassification schedule]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

trot/Paul
Washington
~
16-88-46

7 July 1972.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
A168846

SUBJECT: Assessment of Recruitability - Rolando Masferrer, Jr.
Vice-President, Sales, Military Armanent Corporation
and Associated with Defense Systems incorporated

A168762

1. Subject seems to have inherited that particular
   Latin American penchant for involvement in covert political
   activities. However, the Subject's involvement is not merely
   naatima or varrestion but it is instead intimately connected
   with his chosen profession as an arms salesman. Here the
   phrase "for fun and profit" sooms aptly suited. He seems
   to be a man of action with the ability to exploit an oppor-
   tunity, rather than a towering intellect.

2. Subject has excellent contacts and access in
   Latin America. This access developed from his extended
   family, professional appointments, and his savoinent with
   coxiago is fasily is well-known (infamous)
   roughout any toctors of Latin America and opens many doors
   for him (although it also closes others). It should also
   be mentioned tha: his family has recently developed a rather
   checkered association with this Agency. The particular
   nature of his military products gives him contact with high
   military, police. and security officials throughout Latin
   America. He sees to be well versed on the status of various
   aras deals (both official and under-the-table) in the
   countries he travels. He has been involved with several
   Cubari exile political and para-military organizations.

3. Politically, Subject is a staunch anti-Communist.
   This position is probably ingrained from his family, but
   also reinforced from his various political and professional
   activities. He as voiced a particular hatred for Cuban
   .Communists. He seems to view them not as respected enemies,
   but as hated traitors. He is vehemently anti-Castro.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

4. Subject has developed what could be interpreted as a certain patriotism for this country. During conver-sations, he referred a few times to "my country" meaning the U.S. I believe that the fact he volunteered for U.S. military training reflects not only the selfish motives of becoming Special Forces qualified but also a sense of duty. I also believe that his recent statements to me regarding international security matters is not merely empty loquacity but is evidence of his desire to contribute something and become involved in the national interest.

5. Subject would need sober briefings on the responsibility of any Agency association as well as subsequent careful handling. He would need to get away from the "Flagler Street Commando syndrome" of visual and verbal bravado. He would need instruction to discern rumor from fact, to identify sources, and to assess the reliability of acquired information.

6. I am sure that the Subject is recruitable. The question is what degree of association with the agency would be appropriate. If the decision is made to approach the Subject, may I suggest that his association be initially limited to Agency briefings and debriefings before and after his trips to Latin America. Once his reliability is established and the accuracy of his reporting is proven then further utilization may be possible. Since his financial situation seems to be secure I am sure he could be handled on a non-pay basis.

7. Subject is scheduled to leave on a two-week business trip to Venezuela and Colombia beginning in early August 1972. He claimed to have appointments with a Venezuelan Air Force General and with Venezuelan national security officials in DISIP.

Jeffrey G. Peterson


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Chief, Washington Field Office
Director, Domestic Contact Service, OSS

Rolando Hasferrer, Jr. - Possible Source Lead

16 June 1972

1.  Attached for your information and whatever interest you may have in this source lead from WH/3/Venezuela (Jeffrey G. Peterson).

2.  On the basis of the information submitted, Mr. Hasferrer, Jr., may be a useful source of FPI.

3.  Suggest you arrange contact to obtain routine biographic data to initiate security checks; determine his intelligence potential and explain the DCS mission, without revealing in any way the past relationship with Mr. Peterson. Subject's personality profile appears to be very interesting.

4.  It appears that the Clandestine Service is not interested in subject's operational potential at this time. We leave this in your capable hands to determine what course of action you may wish to contemplate in this matter.

JAMES R. MURPHY

GSMusulia/daa
cc: Services Division (Control)

Filed: AM 23880


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

12 June 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Rolando MASFERRER, Jr.

1. Please be informed of a possible future contact--Rolando MASFERRER, Jr., recently promoted to Vice-President of Sales, Military Armament Corporation, Washington D.C. office, 905 L' Enfant Plaza, #4020. He is also associated with Parabellum Corporation, another military weapons firm. Subject, born approximately 1945, in Habana, Cuba, is believed to be a naturalized citizen.

2. Subject makes frequent sales trips to Latin America. Because of the nature of his main product (machine pistols with silencers) he has good access to top Latin American governmental officials and military and security officers. He has personally met many Latin American presidents. He should be a good source of information on the current status of arms sales in Latin America; internal security, military armament levels, order-of-battle, and internal politics in host countries; and, if needed, status of Cuban exile movement. He is presently on a sales mission to Colombia and is scheduled to return in mid-June.

3. MASFERRER, Jr. has been a Miami resident since 1959 and more recently lived in Atlanta. He will permanently locate in the Washington, D.C. area when he returns from his Colombian trip.

4. Subject is not to be confused with his father by the same name, the infamous Rolando Arcadio MASFERRER y Rojas (201-42669). Masferrer Sr. was a former Cuban Senator and leader of a dreaded private army of Batista enforcers called "Los Tigres (The Tigers)". He is presently serving in a U.S. federal prison for attempting to organize a 1957 invasion of Haiti in order to set up a base of operations against Cuba. Masferrer Sr., violently anti-Castro, was involved in numerous Cuban exile operations against Cuba during the last decade.

5. I was Subject's Commanding Officer in the Florida National Guard and sometimes saw him socially while in Miami. Although Cuban by birth, he now feels that he is an American. Politically anti-Communist, he joined the National Guard (while not under duress from the draft) to become a "Green Beret." He is polite and correct in his social relationships. I received a letter from him, 7 June 1972, informing me of his impending move to the Washington, D.C. area. He


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

solicited my aid in finding a local asy ressive unit.

6. If you are interested in exploring this possibility further, please feel free to contact me at any time. I could suggest cautions and method of contact or introduction. Subject is unwitting of my Agency employment.

![Signature of Jeffrey Peterson]
Jeffrey G. Peterson

WH/3/V

Orig. & 2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

Chief, Washington Field Office

Director, Domestis Contact Service (OSS)

28 June 1972

Rolando Masferrer Jr., Possible Source Lead

REFERENCES: A) Memorandum for the Record dated 12 Jume 1972; Same Subject :
B) Van Rapper/Musulin telecon

1. In regard to referent telephone conversation of recent date, we asked Jeffrey G. Peterson (WH/3/Venezuela) for additional Sales, Military Armanent Corporation, Eeadquartered in Georgia.

2. Jeffrey Peterson is a young "career trainee" who has been with the Agency for about six months. He met Hasferrer in Niemi, Florida, where both belonged to a Florida National Guard Unit. Peterson knows Kasferrer socially as weil having met frequently for "snacks and beer".

3. According to Peterson, based on his observations, subject is a personable, intelligent, individual vio appears trustwrthy, and of sound wind and judgment. He is a solid citizen completely assimilated in the American mainstrean; intensely interested in the U.S. political processes. Politically, he is of moderate conservative persuasion. He is an estute businessman of demonstrated ability and integrity. To diguligt this point, Peterson Beational that Kasferrer spurned lucrative cash offers for "under the table" deals to engage in illegal veapons trade in Latin Anerica. Be refused these offers to operate in legitimate business circles.

4. Young Rolando takes a sociable drink; has no known bad habits. He has a keen eye for attractive femles, but no more so than all healthy males. Peterson said he would not hesitate to recommend subject for a position of trust and confidence.

5. Rolando Masferrer, Jr. served with the Green Berets, elite U.8. Army unit whose members require special security clearances by the military.

6. Peterson underlined his previous statement that Rolando should not be confused with his father, Rolando Arcadio Masferrer y Rojas, a former Cuban Serator who was leader of the notorious "Los Figere", the dreaded arzy of enforcers under Batiste..

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

-2-

7. Peterson believed, and we are inclined to agree, that Rolando Jr., may be a good candidate for source development. He will be located at 905 L'Enfant Plaza, Washington, D.C., as the representative of Military Armaments Co. He will also represent Parabellum Corporation another military weapons firm.

8. Dun and Bradstreet reports were requested from New York and a copy will be forwarded when received.

JAMES R. MURPHY

GSZumulin/114
cc: Services Division (Control)
FILED: HH 23880
23880

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

(When-Filled In)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                                                                                   |                                          |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 14-00000                                                                          |                                          |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| **FOR FIELD USE ONLY**                                                            |                                          |                                 | **FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY**                           |                                     |
| A. FIELD OFFICE                                                                   | B.REQ. CODE                              | C. CASE 4JMBER                  | FORWARDED MO. DA. YR                                    | REPOP 4.                            |
| 1  2  3  4                                                                        | 11 12 13 14 15                           | 16 17 18 19 20                  | 22 23 24 25 26                                          | 28 29 30 31 32 33   1435.30         |
| ХИІМ                                                                              | 00400                                    |                                 | 07103                                                   | 2026573                             |
| D. SUBJECT AND AREA                                                               |                                          |                                 |                                                         | EXTRA DISSEM. RECORD 37 3939        |
| Guillermo Yglesias/Efforts to Raise Money Under Allged Agency Auspices            |                                          |                                 |                                                         | RELEASED MO, DA YR 40 41 42 43 44   |
| (Colombia/Venezuela/Guatemala)                                                    |                                          |                                 |                                                         | 071663                              |
| E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organizat: in, Address)                                  |                                          |                                 | 45 TYPE CO-E GRAPHICS MAPS PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHER | 46 NOT DISSEMP NATED                |
| Rolando MASFERRER                                                                 | INDIVIDUAL NO.                           |                                 | SUBJECT AREA                                            |                                     |
| 6030 W. Flagler Avenue                                                            | ORGANIZATION NO.                         |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| Miami, Florida                                                                    |                                          |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)                                    | 47 48 49 50 1. SUFFI- CIENTLY WELL KNOWN | INDIVIDUAL NC. ORGANIZATION NO. | 51 52 53 54 21 NT 2. TOO GENERAL 2 POL                  |                                     |
| Same                                                                              |                                          |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)                                | 1 S&T 3 MIL 3. DATA SUPPLIED BY OTHER    | INDIVIDUAL NO. ORGANIZATION NO. | 5SOC 4. OTHER/MISC 6 GEO 5. COMBINED WITH               |                                     |
|                                                                                   |                                          |                                 | 7810 6. INSUFFICIENT INTEREST                           |                                     |
| H. METHOD OF COLLECTION                                                           |                                          | EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM       | USSR ONLY EXCHANGES ICHECK ONE) NO TO USSR FROM USSR    | RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |
| * INTERVIEW                                                                       | * TRIP REPORT                            |                                 | HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS                                   | WH                                  |
| * OTHER DOCUMENT                                                                  | * OTHER (specify below)                  |                                 | HH 25263                                                |                                     |
| DIRECTED TO ALIEN OSS SOV INT X                                                   | CASE OFFICER                             |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| FIELD COMMENTS                                                                    |                                          |                                 |                                                         |                                     |
| Our local colleagues wish us to report on Yglesias and record these developments. |                                          |                                 |                                                         |                                     |

HH 11/506/05 4D 46.
ATTN (H Forest -040)

Yglesias in certainly a haud and showed cand to the allention of the FBI and police authoritis. Marferre should also be known to four once since we sent some bochground info on him to min F. O. 112 is a slich gerator. Berg mentions a gan-dealeng.

KMacVans: paw BEMAINKWARING

FORM USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGE ICE

## CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

**COUNTRY** Colombia/Venezuela/Quatesala

**SUBJECT** Guillermo Yglesies/Efforts to Raise
Money Under Alleged Agency Auspices

**REPORT NO.** 00-A(S)-322 20265-73

**DATE**

**NO. PAGES** 2

**REFERENCES**

# OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

1.  On 26 June 1973 the Miami Field Office responded to a call on the listed line from a man who identified himself as Folardo Masferrer. Mr. Masferrer requested to meet with Matt MacVane of the Hiani Field Office. Mr. Hasferrer said that he had some information concerning one Guillermo Yelesias (subject of 00A(3) 322/17013-73) that would prove to be of interost to the Central Intelligence Agency. Rolando Hasferrer lives at 6080 W. Flegler Avenue, Misai, Florida. As a result of his request Matt MacVane and Luis Desa-Soto of the Hiand Fieli Office responded to the call and met with Rolando Masferrer that afternoon.

2.  Mr. Hasferrer related details of his relationship with one Guilemo Yglesias, age about 38, an individual on whom there are other Agency references. According to Masferrer, Yglesias approached hin in late March 1973 and identified himself as working for the Centrai Imelligono Agency. Yglesias said that he was trying to raise a large susa of money to finance secret CIA operations. Yglesias said that CIA funds have been tied up as a result of the Watergate affair. He referred to these operations as black operations. Hr. Masferrer said that he know several high ranking government officials in Colombia, Venezuela, and Guatemala. Masferrer contacted several of these friends in South America and asked then to aid the Central Intelligence Agency in raising funds for secret operations in South America and the Caribbean. Masferrer has contacted Manuel Vega, a retired Colombian army colonel and presently head of the Colombian Internal Holice. He has also contacted one Alvaro Vargas, who is an advisor in armaments to the Colombian National Police. Masferrer also passed Yglesias the neme of Carlosari, head of the Venezuela Internal Police. Iglesias shoved a grest interest in small arms of all types. Masferrer said that he personally turned over five H-26 fragmentation band granades, one M-16 automatic rifle, one AR-15 semi-automatic rifle, and several handguas 38 caliber type. Masferrer was led to believe that the veapons would bo used in a secret CIA operation in Puerto Rico. Tais operation was described by Iglesias as a black operation.

3.  During our conversation with Masferrer, he raised an additionl point. Fanferrer said that he contacted Manuel Vega in Colombia and that Vega agreed to help all that he could. Vega expressed deep concern to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET.

00-A(S)-322/20265-13

Masferrer because, according to him, any time the US Embassy people in Bogota were passed information the Colombian guerrillas were somehow informed. Vaun told Masferrer that he believed a leak had developed in the US Embassy and that the "Embassy boys" could no longer be trusted.

- end -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET
(When Filled In) 16-88-46

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                                                                                                |                         |                |                                                                                               |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | -------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| FOR FIELD USE ONLY                                                                             |                         |                | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY                                                                     |
| A. FIELD OFFICE                                                                                | B.REQ. CODE             | C. CASE NUMBER | I. FORWARDED MO. DA. YR.                                                                      |
| 1 2 3 4                                                                                        | 11 12 13 14 15          | 16 17 18 19 20 | 22 23 24 25 26                                                                                |
| X M I M                                                                                        | 6409                    |                | 05243                                                                                         |
| D. SUBJECT AND AREA                                                                            |                         |                | J. REPORT NO. A B C D E F 27 28 29 30 31 32 33  34 35 36                                      |
| Possible False Recruitment Effort                                                              |                         |                | 1386473                                                                                       |
| (Cuba/Haiti)                                                                                   |                         |                | EXTRA DISSEM. RECORD 37 38 39:                                                                |
| E. CONTACT (Band, Title, Organizarsan, Address)                                                |                         |                | RELEASED MO. DA. YR 40 41 42 43 44                                                            |
| Rolando Masferrer                                                                              | INDIVIDUAL NO.          |                | 05-363                                                                                        |
| c/o Daniel Bermudez                                                                            |                         |                | 45 TYPE OO-E 46 DISSEWI NATED                                                                 |
| 6080 W. Flagler, Apt 17                                                                        | ORGANIZATION NO.        |                | GRAPHICS, WADS, PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHER                                                  |
| Miami, Florida                                                                                 |                         |                |                                                                                               |
| F.SOURCE (Nane, Title, Organizar, Address)                                                     |                         |                |                                                                                               |
| G. SUB-SOURCE Name, Title, Orgentoration, Address,                                             |                         |                | SUBJECT AREA                                                                                  |
| H. METHOD OF COLLECTION                                                                        |                         |                | 1. SUFFI- 47 48 49 50 CIENTLY 51 52 53 54                                                     |
|                                                                                                |                         |                | WELL O E C O IS D V                                                                           |
| * INTERVIEW                                                                                    | * TRIP REPORT           |                | 1 S & T. TOO GENERAL  2 1 AIT                                                                 |
| * OTHER DOCUMENT                                                                               | * OTHER (specify below) |                | 3. DAT L. SUPPLIED BY OTHER AGENCIES   4. OTHER 'MISC                                         |
| DIRECTED TO ALIEN OSS SOV INT                                                                  | CASE OFFICER Musulin    |                | 5. COMBINED WITH 6. INSUFFICIENT INTEREST                                                     |
| X                                                                                              |                         |                |                                                                                               |
| FIELD COMMENTS                                                                                 |                         |                |                                                                                               |
| Our local colleagues have asked us to report this brief item in order to put it in the system. |                         |                | EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE) RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |
| C/S                                                                                            |                         |                | NO TO USSR FROM USSR WH                                                                       |

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

HH-23880

FYI and Possible Intent

Copy to:

WH/C/FI - 3-D-38

WH/7/HT 3-B-0001.

WH/C/CI 3-D.46 7-014 A

Believe you callen was Kolarko

Marferren Jr. who is the nephew 1.

the famous Rolands Arcadio Masferren.

y. Rojas serving on a US fiberal Jun

for organizing (1967) invasion of Haiti.

III. Sky cea y Rolando voe associated w/M
we will send you Some background.

R 2 IMPDET CL BY 004476 wirs.Jriu /

BEMainwaring:mbf F.O. CHIEF BEMAINWARING

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T

![Central Intelligence Agency logo]

DIRECTORATE OF
INTELLIGENCE

COUNTRY Cuba/Haiti

SUBJECT Possible False Recruitment Effort

REPORT NO. 00-A(S)-322/13864-73

DATE 26 May 1973

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

## OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

1.  At 1700 hours on 14 May 1973 the Miami Field Office received a telephone call on the listed line from an individual who ultimately identified himself as Rolando Masferrer. It is believed that Masferrer is identical with former Cuban senator and Batista associate Rolando Masferrer Rojas who is of dubious reputation and is well known for several nefarious actions in Haiti, Guatemala and perhaps elsewhere. Rolando Masferrer was convicted of conspiracy to invade Haiti in 1967. It is believed that there are extensive Agency files on Rolando Masferrer.

2.  Masferrer was very reluctant to provide details, but finally said he could be reached at local telephone 261-3689. A separate check reveals this number to be registered to Deniel Bermudez, 6080 W. Flagler, Apartment #17.

3.  In any event the listed line caller indicated that he had been approached by one Guillermo Iglesias and asked to engage in certain activities which he did not further describe. According to Masferrer, Iglesias carried credentials or other identifying material which seemed to link him with the U.S. Coast Guard in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Masferrer said, however, that Iglesias indicated also that he was in some way representing the Central Intelligence Agency. Masferrer then said that the purpose of the telephone call was to check on the bona fides of Guillermo Iglesias.

4.  Masferrer was told that the name Guillermo Iglesias meant nothing to the Miami Field Office and was otherwise given a rather non-committal response.

- end -

CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T

Classified by: 007622
Exempt from general declassification schedule of E.O. 11652, exemption category:
5B(2). Impossible to determine date of automatic declassification.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL

Chief, Washington Field Office 12 July 1972

Director, Domestic Contact Service (083)

A-168846 A-168762

Rolando Masferrer Jr., Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs, Georgia

REF : Van Fapper/Musulin telecons

A. 127900.

1. Attached per referent telephone conversations is copy of Dun and Bradstreet report as requested on Military Armament Corporation, headquartered in Powder Springs, Georgia. Please note that Chairman of the Board, is Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III. Werbell is a former Office of Strategic Services (OSS) officer known to this writer during assignments in China during WWII.

2. This Agency, as well as other government agencies, have considerable information on Werbell. He is an old and unsavory, unsolicited, contact of the Miami Field Office dating from 1959. He is of dubious character and reputation who had and has been involved in grandoise schemes and international arms deals. He has had perpetual financial difficulties.

3. Werbell was involved with Rolando Masferrer Senior, in connection with the abortive Haitian invasion in 1967. This may throw a different light on possible source development of young Rolando Jr. Any approach to him should be executed with some degree of caution. We do not desire to get involved with Werbell. However, we cannot foresee any objection to planned debriefings of Masferrer Jr., following his trips to Latin America and other areas, in pursuit of FPI and possible information of operational significance.

4. If we can be of further assistance in this matter, please advise.

JAMES R. MURPHY

Attachment

CStusulin/lld

cc: Services Division: (Control)

FILED: EE 23880

CONFIDENTIAL

AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON APPROVAL OF DCI

CLASSIFIED BY 42-1445

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE
OF E. O. 11652. EXEMPTION
5B(1), (2), (3) or (4) (state one of more)

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
AND METHODS INVOLVED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description:

Document Located By: DCD
(OFFICE DESIGNATION)

Document referred to DDO for review by:

FOIA/PA Request No. E77-260

Dated: 16-Aug-1977

RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                             | FOIA    | PRIVACY                                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| () Classification                                           | (b)(1)  | (k) (1)                                               |
| () Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| () Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (5) (3) | (j) (1) (b) (c)                                       |
| () Information which would/could identify the source        | (b) (3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Information pertaining to a source                       | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Information pertaining to intelligence methods           | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b) (3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| (: ) Name of CIA employee                                   | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| (1) File number                                             | (b) (2) | (1) (1) (b)                                           |
| ($) Pseudonym                                               | (b) (3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Cryptonym                                                | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| (.) Internal organizational data                            | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| () Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b) (7) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () FBI file number                                          | (b) (2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Privacy of other individual                              | (b) (6) | (j) (1) (F)                                           |
| () Does not pertain to request                              | N/A     | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" |
| () Information from another Government agency               | (b) (1) | (j) (1) (c)                                           |
| *() Other, specify:                                         |         |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and H-70-21, 14 February 1975 (ΣΟΙΛ).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![Signature of reviewing officer and office]

DCD
may 77

USCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

Document No. (To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Chief, Washington Field Office

Director, Domestic Contact Service, OSS

Rolando Masferrer, Jr. - Possible Source Lead

16 June 1972

1. Attached for your information and whatever interest you may have in this source lead from WH/3/Venezuela

2. On the basis of the information submitted,

3. Suggest you arrange contact to obtain routine biographic data to initiate security checks; determine his intelligence potential and explain the DCS mission, without revealing in any way the past relationship with Mr. Peterson. Subject's personality profile appears to be very interesting.

4. It appears that the Clandestine Service is not repeat not interested in subject's operational potential at this time. We leave this in your capable hands to determine what course of action you may wish to contemplate in this matter.

JAMES MURPHY

GSMusulin/daa
cc: Services Division (Control)

Filed: HH 23880


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description:

Document Located By:

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized fora
Deny in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with __________ prior to above denial/release.

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                             | FOIA   | PRIVACY                                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| () Classification                                           | (b)(1) | (j)(1)                                                |
| () Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                          |
| () Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                          |
| (Information which would/could identify the source          | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Information pertaining to a source                       | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Information pertaining to intelligence methods           | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b).                                            |
| () Name of CIA employee                                     | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                             |
| ()File number                                               | (b)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Pseudor.yn                                               | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Cryptonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Internal organizational data                             | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                             |
| () Kaze of an FBI agent                                     | (b)(7) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () FBI file number                                          | (b)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Privacy of other individual                              | (b)(6) | (j)(1)(f)                                             |
| () Does not pertain to request                              | N/A    | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" |
| () Information from another Covernment agency               | (b)(1) | (j)(1)(c)                                             |
| *() Ocher, specify:                                         |        |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5943, 16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (ΙΟΙΑ).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![signature of Revi officer & office]


Document No.
(To be completed by ISS/PICC).

![OCD may 77]
E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# SECRET

Chief, Washington Field Office 28 June 1972

Director, Domestic Contact Service (OSS)

Rolando Masferrer Jr., Possible Source Lead

REFERENCES: A) Memorandum for the Record dated 12 June 1972; Same Subject

B) Van Eapper/Musulin telecon

1. In regard to referent telephone conversation of recent (un/2/Sanala) for additional
   assessment information on Rolando Masferrer, Jr., Vice-President of Sales, Military Armament Corporation, Headquartered in Georgia.

2. Jeffrey Peterson is a young "career trainee" who has been with the Agency for about six months. He met Masferrer in Miami, Florida, where both belonged to a Florida National Guard Unit. Peterson knows Masferrer socially as well having met frequently for "snacks and beer".

3. According to Peterson, based on his observations, subject is a personable, intelligent, individual who appears trustworthy, and of sound mind and judgment. He is a solid citizen completely assimilated in the American mainstream; intensely interested in the U.S. political processes. Politically, he is of moderate conservative persuasion. He is an astute businessman of demonstrated ability and integrity. To highlight this point, Peterson mentioned that Masferrer spurned lucrative case offers for "under the table" deals to engage in illegal weapons trade in Latin America. He refused these offers to operate in legitimate business circles.

4. Young Rolando takes a sociable drink; has no known bad habits. He has a keen eye for attractive females, but no more so than all healthy males. Peterson said he would not hesitate to recommend subject for a position of trust and confidence.

5. Rolando Masferrer, Jr. served with the Green Berets, elite U.S. Army unit whose members require special security clearances by the military.

6. Peterson underlined his previous statement that Rolando should not be confused with his father, Rolando Arcadio Masferrer y Rojas, a former Cuban Senator who was leader of the notorious "Los Figars", the dreaded army of enforcers under Batista.

# SECRET

![redacted image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

-2-

7. Peterson believed, and we are inclined to agree, that Rolanio Jr., may be a good candidate for source development. He will be located at 905 L'Enfant Plaza, Washington, D.C., as the representative of Military Armanents Co. He will also represent Parabellum Corporation another military weapons firm.

8. Dun and Bradstreet reports ware requested from New York and a copy will be forwarded when received

JAMES R. MURPHY

GSatuwalin/11a
cc: Services Division (Control)
FILED: HR 23380
23880

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description: *inimes*

Document Located By : *DCD*

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMMEND:

Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to *WH Derin*

Coordination with _______ prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                             | FOLA    | PRIVACY                                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| () Classification                                           | (b) (1) | (k) (1)                                               |
| () Information from a foreign liaison service               | (b) (3) | (j) (1)(b)(c)                                         |
| () Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b) (3) | (j) (1)(b)(c)                                         |
| () Information which would/could identify the source        | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Information pertaining to a source                       | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Information pertaining to intelligence methods           | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Name of CIA employee                                     | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| () File number                                              | (b) (2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Pseudonym                                                | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Cryptonym                                                | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Internal organizational data                             | (b) (3) | (j) (1) (e)                                           |
| () Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b) (7) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () FBI file number                                          | (b) (2) | (j) (1) (b)                                           |
| () Privacy of other individual                              | (b) (6) | (j) (1) (f)                                           |
| () Does not pertain to request                              | N/A     | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" |
| () Information from another Government agency               | (b) (1) | (j) (1) (c)                                           |
| *() Other, specify:                                         |         |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5343,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and HN-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![signature of refixing officer & office]

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

FORM 3966

8-77

FOIA/PA Request No. F77-260

Dated: 12 June 1972
7 July 1972 (2)
6 July 1972

Document No.
(To be completed by ISS/PICG)

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

6 July 1972.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Rolando Masferrer, Jr.

1. On Monday, 3 July 1972, from 2100 to 2400 hours at Clyde's Bar, Washington, D.C.; and Tuesday, 4 July 1972, from 1300 to 1600 hours, poolside, 7625 Metera St., Apt. 201, Falls Church, Virginia, the undersigned talked with Rolando Masferrer, Jr.

2. I mentioned to Masferrer that my superiors (supposedly in the State Department) were interested that some responsible U.S. Government authority be informed of his story regarding U.S. citizen involvement in drug trafficking and guerrilla training in Mexico. Masferrer said that last February he told the story up to that date to Miami, F.B.I. Agent Bob Dyer, and also certain information to U.S. Customs Bureau Agent Buchanan (fnu). Masferrer said he had not informed any government entities of events subsequent to February. I mentioned that such information was not necessarily within the unique purview of the State Department, but that my superiors would probably be interested in anything further.

3. Rolando Masferrer, Jr., related to me four different occasions when an insurgent organization, "Force Seven", comprised of American adventurers in Mexico, was brought to his attention.

4. The first time the Subject heard of "Force Seven" was from Francisco BRAVO (or Brabo) (NFI), Chief of Judicial Police, State of Morelos. Subject had not met Bravo "a few years ago". They met again in Atlanta, Georgia, late December 1971, when Bravo came for a weapons demonstration at the Military Armament Corp, Powder Springs, Georgia, some 20 miles outside Atlanta. Bravo told Masferrer of the insurgency problem in the Mexican states of Morelos and Guerrero. Bravo mentioned the existence of "Force Seven". Bravo indicated his police

> WARNING NOTICE
> SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
> AND METHODS INVOLVED

CLASSIFIED BY 51-1391

SECRET

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE
OF E. O. 11652. EXEMPTION CATEGORY:
5(1), (2), (3) or (4) (circle one or more)

23880:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

needed weapons to fight the insurgents and subsequently invited Masferrer and Anselmo Alliegro (son of a former Cuban Senator, naturalized citizen, and Masferrer's partner in Farabella Corporation) to come to Mexico. Bravo promised to introduce Masferrer and Alliegro to Mexican police authorities competent to purchase firearms.

5. Subject again heard the name "Force Seven" in Miami, January 1972. Aliro CUEVAS FIGAROA, former First Vice-President of the Guatemalan Congress. [Castaneda was head of the Guatemalan civilian counter-insurgency forces in the Zacapa region during 1957-63, and, according to Masferrer, the chief of the Mano Blanco. Castaneda was killed 12 June 1972. The Guatemalan insurgent group, F.A.R., "took credit" for the killing.] Castaneda was travelling to the U.S. with Messers. Sandoval and Figueroa. [Probably Mario SANDOVAL Alarcon, President of the Guatemalan Congress and head of the M.L.N. party; and Alvaro CUEVAS Figueroa, Castaneda's predecessor as First Vice-President of Congress. Several TOCS reports during January and February 1972 indicated Cuevas Figueroa was trying to smuggle arms from the U.S. to Guatemala supposedly for a planned coup in Costa Rica] Masferrer said Castaneda was trying to arrange the release from U.S. Federal prison Rolando Masferrer, Sr. Castaneda wanted Masferrer, Sr., to emigrate to Guatemala to become involved in state security matters and also to organize an anti-Communist army. Castaneda mentioned to Masferrer, Jr., the growing insurgency problems in the Peten area of Guatemala. Castaneda mentioned that U.S. insurgents operating under the name "Force Seven" entered the Peten from Mexico. The Guatemalan Army's Mariscal Zavala Brigade had been dispatched from Guatemala City to the Mexican border in Peten province to counter the infiltration, but had recently been shifted to the border adjacent British Honduras. Masferrer said Castaneda believed that former U.S. "Green Berets" were involved with the insurgents. Castaneda said that a list of all U.S. Special Forces-trained Guatemalans had disappeared when the U.S. military training mission was terminated. Now the guerrillas in Guatemala are pinpointing those U.S. trained, local military personnel with uncanny accuracy. From that evidence, Castaneda believed that "Force Seven" must include some of the U.S. "Green Berets" that had originally trained the local Guatemalan military.

SECRET
23884


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

6. During the first three months of 1972, Subject made two trips to Mexico. During his first grip, three weeks in late January and February, Masferrer travelled with Alliegro and Mitchell WerBell (Mitchell Livingston WerBell III, 201-250010, former 645 Maber in C-3-1 in World War II; former President of Military Armament Corporation; and presently associated with Defense Systems Incorporated, Powder Springs, Georgia.) In Mexico City, Francisco Bravo introduced him to Mexico City Police Chief Santos (Daniel Gutierrez Santos) and Miquel NAZAR HARO, "Chief of Political Police". (Actually Deputy Director of the Federal Security Service, DFS, a political and intelligence organisation working within the Secretariat of Government.) During conversations Nazar admitted Mexico's insurgency problems and specifically named "Force Seven". Masferre mentioned that both Nazar and Gutierrez Santos were angry with President Echeverria because of the Mexican Government's policy of light criminal punishment and short prison terms for bandits and/or guerrillas painstakingly captured by the police.

7. Bravo took the three to Cuernavaca where he showed them a house on the outskirts of the city that the police used for unofficial detentions and heavy-handed interrogations. Bravo complained that the local Catholic Archbishop was implicated with the insurgents as well as certain U.S. film personalities who vacation in the American community in Cuernavaca. Bravo also implicated a professor that was kidnapped in Guerrero in late 1971. Bravo believed that the professor [Jaime CASTREJON Diez, Rector of the University of Guerrero] actually conspired with the insurgents for his own kidnapping in order to raise the ransom money for the insurgent movement. [The ransom was finally paid by President Echeverria.]

8. Subject travelled again to Mexico in March 1972 with Bernardo LE TORRES. (Mexico 2038, 4 December 1969, mentions that LIT-IPO-12, H/MINH, received a phone call from one Bernardo De Torres regarding a supposed Swiss contraband arms dealer in Mexico City.) Nazar had invited Masferrer to return to Mexico to go on a "hunting party", that is, to participate in an actual counter-insurgency operation. Masferrer and De Torres arrived in Acapulco and were met by Bravo. They travelled by police vehicle for about an hour east of Acapulco to an area near La Treintas (NFI).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

Just before they arrived they heard on the police radio that the Army had just "shot down" a twin-engine Beechcraft. When they arrived, a search of the wreckage yielded a few weapons. A short firefight (about 15 minutes) ensued with insurgents that left two soldiers dead. Masferrer said he did not know the number of insurgent casualties. One insurgent was captured along with his .45 caliber pistol.

9. The captured insurgent turned out to be a U.S. citizen, white, male, approximately 27 years old. (Masferrer claimed he forgot the prisoner's name, but that he had it in Miami.) Bravo did not trust the Acapulco or the Guerrero state police and had his men take the prisoner to the detention house outside of Cuernavaca. Masferrer said he witnessed the interrogation in which the prisoner's head was repeatedly dunked in a rain barrel to make him talk.

The prisoner eventually revealed the following information about "Force Seven": participating Americans were ex-ranger, airborne, Marine or Special Forces types, many with Vietnam combat experience. They were armed with CAR-15 (M-16) rifles and some had M-79 grenade launchers. Other Americans operated elsewhere in Latin America. "Force Seven" provided training to the insurgents, and, whenever possible, supplied weapons. In return, the Americans were paid in money and drugs, mostly marijuana, but some cocaine. Masferrer said no heroin was mentioned. The prisoner said the insurgents used the money from the drug smuggling to finance operations. Bank robberies had become increasingly difficult since the Army began posting armed guards at area banks. The prisoner said he had worked under Genaro VASQUEZ (Mexico's infamous bandit-turned-guerrilla; killed in a car accident last February). The prisoner put guerrilla strength at about 2,000 men. Masferrer, however, said Bravo felt that figure to be high. The prisoner also mentioned that some of the insurgents had previously received guerrilla training in North Korea.

10. Masferrer said that later, upon Nazar's orders, the American prisoner was shot and killed. The whole affair was never reported in the local press because, according to Masferrer, such information, if revealed, would damage the area's tourist trade.

Jeffrey G. Peterson

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# SECRET

12 June 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Rolando MASFERRER, Jr.

1. Please be informed of a possible future contact--Rolando MASFERRER, Jr., recently promoted to Vice-President of Sales, Military Armament Corporation, Washington D.C. office, 905 L' Enfant Plaza, #4020. He is also associated with Parabellum Corporation, another military weapons firm. Subject, born approximately 1945, in Habana, Cuba, is believed to be a naturalized citizen.

2. Subject makes frequent sales trips to Latin America. Because he has good access to top Latin American governmental officials and military and security officers. He has personally met many Latin American presidents. He should be a good source of information on the current status of arms sales in Latin America; internal security, military armament levels, order-of-battle, and internal politics in host countries; and, if needed, status of Cuban exile movement. He is presently on a sales mission to Colombia and is scheduled to return in mid-June.

3. MASFERRER, Jr. has been a Miami resident since 1959 and more recently lived in Atlanta. He will permanently locate in the Washington, D.C. area when he returns from his Colombian trip.

4. Subject is not to be confused with his father by the same name, the infamous Rolando Arcadio MASFERRER y Rojas (201-42669). Masferrer Sr. was a former Cuban Senator and leader of a dreaded private army of Batista enforcers called "Los Tigres (The Tigers)". He is presently serving in a U.S. federal prison for attempting to organize a 1967 invasion of Haiti in order to set up a base of operations against Cuba. Masferrer Sr., violently anti-Castro, was involved in numerous Cuban exile operations against Cuba during the last decade.

5. I was Subject's Commanding Officer in the Florida National Guard and sometimes saw him socially while in Miami. Although Cuban by birth, he now feels that he is an American. Politically anti-Communist, he joined the National Guard (while not under duress from the draft) to become a "Green Beret." He is polite and correct in his social relationships. I received a letter from him, 7 June 1972, informing me of his impending move to the Washington, D.C. area. He


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

solicited my aid in finding a local army reserve unit.

6. If you are interested in exploring this possibility further, please feel free to contact me at any time. I could suggest cautions and method of contact or introduction. Subject is unwitting of my Agency employment.

![Signature of Jeffrey G. Peterson]Jeffrey G. Peterson

WH/3/V

Orig. & 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

Cc Washington.

28 Jul 72

16-88-46

7 July 1972

A168846

SUBJECT: Assessment of Recruitability - Rolando Masferrer, Jr.
Vice-President, Sales, Military Armanent Corporation
and Associated with Defense Systems Incorporated

A168762.

1. Subject seems to have inherited that particular Latin American penchant for involvement in covert political activities. However, the Subject's involvement is not moreiv Destinatos instead intimately connected with his chosen profession as an arms salesman. Here the phrase "for fun and profit" seems aptly suited. He seems to be a man of action with the ability to exploit an oppor- tunity, rather than a towering intellect.

2. Subject has excellent contacts and access in Latin America. This access developed from his extended family, professional appointments, and his involvement with. Cgroups is fastiy 19 well-known (infamous) Grovetout any sectors of Latin America and opens many doors for him (although it also closas others). It should also be mentioned that his family has recently developed a rather checkered association with this Agency. The particular nature of his military products gives his contact with high military, police, and security officials throughout Latin America. He seems to be well versed on the status of various aras deals (both official and under-the-table) in the countries he travels. He has been involved with several Cuban exile political and para-military organizations.

3. Politically, Subject is a staunch anti-Communist. This position is probably ingrained from his family, but also reinforced from his various political and professional activities. He has voiced a particular hatred for Cuban Communists. He seems to view them not as respected enemies, but as hated traitors. He is vehemently anti-Castro.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

4. Subject has developed what could be interpreted as a certain patriotism for this country. During conversations he referred a few times to "my country" meaning the U.S. I believe that the fact he volunteered for U.S. military training reflects not only the selfish motives of becoming Special Forces qualified but also a sense of duty. I also believe that his recent statements to me regarding international security matters is not merely empty loquacity but is evidence of his desire to contribute something and become involved in the national interest.

5. Subject would need sober briefings on the responsibility of any Agency association as well as subsequent careful handling. He would need to get away from the "Flagler Street Commando syndrome" of visual and verbal bravado. He would need instruction to discern rumor from fact, to identify sources, and to assess the reliability of acquired information.

6. I am sure that the Subject is recruitable. The question is what degree of association with the Agency would be appropriate. If the decision is made to approach the Subject, may I suggest that his association be initially limited to Agency briefings and debriefings before and after his trips to Latin America. Once his reliability is established and the accuracy of his reporting is proven then further utilization may be possible. Since his financial situation seems to be secure I am sure he could be handled on a non-pay basis.

7. Subject is scheduled to leave on a two-week business trip to Venezuela and Colombia beginning in early August 1972. He claimed to have appointments with a Venezuelan Air Force General and with Venezuelan national security officials in DISIP

Jeffrey G. Peterson


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

7 July 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: J. G.'s Conversation with Polemio Masferrer, Jr.

1. C: Stanley, 2 July 1972, from 1000 to 2000 hours at the Champiom Resturant, Arlington, Va., I met with Masferrer to inquire of the Agency re-employment. My cover story is that I am a Program Officer with the State Department. I supposedly work in a research capacity for the American Republics Area until the time I can be programmed to enter the next Foreign Service Institute class.)

2. Masferrer and I, old National Guard comrades, had not seen one another for 5 months. We had dinner and later went on a tour of apartment sites in the District and northern Virginia. During the course of the conversation, he related the events of his trips to Mexico and his recent trip (June 1972) to Colombia in the course of his job as Vice-President, Sales, Military Armament Corp.

Mexico: Subject mentioned the trouble the Mexican Government is having with leftist guerrillas, particularly in two western states. He claimed the rebels were being trained in part by U.S. aventurers who claimed to be ex-ranger, airborne Marine or Special Forces types, many with Vietnam experience. The Americans were training the rebels in return for money and marijuana and a piece of the drug smuggling action. The Americans operated under the non de guerre "Force Seven". This same "Force Seven" claimed to have connections and affiliations in Guatemala. Subject claimed even to have participated in a small firefight with the Mexican Army and the Judicial Police against the guerrillas in an effort to prove the worth of his particular military products.

![WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED]

![CLASSIFIED BY 51-1391 SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Columbia: Subject mentioned Colombia's increasing alarm with the problems of drug trafficking within the country. In the house of his friend as Jaime Paul Polo, Chief of Staff of the Colombian Army.

2.  The entire conversation was kept on the level of buddies swapping war stories. Subject, however, swore to the veracity of his statements. I mentioned that the State Department was currently interested in the problems of drug trafficking in Latin America and maybe there would be some interest in pursuing the matter further. I also indicated I would ask my superiors at the State Department if they had ever heard anything about the existence of a "Force Seven" or anything on the curious dealings of U.S. citizens in drug smuggling, and leftist guerrilla movements in Mexico.

3.  On Monday, 3 July 1972, I coordinated with the following people at Headquarters:

Robert Drugger, Acting Desk Chief, Colombia
Richard Whooier and John Murray, Branch 1, Mexico
Robert Weicha, C/I/FI
Drake Reid, Wil/NARC

Their collective suggestions and instructions were:

a. Go slow on efforts to elicit information so not to arouse suspicions of Agency involvement.

b. Find out any information regarding the Colombian Army's E-2 battalion, U.S. citizen's involvement in drug trafficking in Latin America (names, dates, and places), Cuban involvement in cocaine traffic, and any ties between leftist guerrillas and drug smuggling.

c. Write a memorandum and Subject evaluation (where he works, where he goes, who he meets, and an assessment of recruitability).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

4. I made arrangements to meet Nefferrer again the evening of 3 July 1972 and the afternoon of 4 July 1972.

Jeffrey C. Peterson

SECRET

23880


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description:

Document Located By: DCD

Document referred to DDO for review by:

RECOMEND:

Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to prior to above denial/release
Coordination with

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

Classification FOIA PRIVACY

Information from a foreign liaison service (b) (1) (k) (1)

Information pertaining to a foreign liaison (b) (3) (j) (1) (b) (c)
relationship (b) (3) (j) (1) (b) (c)

Information which would/could identify the (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)
source

Information pertaining to a source (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

Information pertaining to intelligence methods (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

Location of CIA overseas installation (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

Location of unacknowledged domestic (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)
installation

Name of CIA employee (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

File number (b) (2) (j) (1) (b)

Pseudonym (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

Cryptonym (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

Internal organizational data (b) (3) (j) (1) (b)

Name of an FBI agent (b) (7) (j) (1) (b)

FBI file number (b) (2) (j) (1) (b)

Privacy of other individual (b) (6) (j) (1) (f)

Does not pertain to request N/A "Exempted portions
are not relevant
to the requester"

Information from another Government agency (b) (1) (j) (1) (c)

*() Other, specify:

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DDA-75-5043,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and 1N-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS:

![Signature of Reviewing Officer & Office]

Document No.
(To be completed by ISS/PICC)

OCD E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

May 77

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

F-16-88-46

SECRET

OSS-820-73
31 May 1973

Chief, Hiami Field Office

Director, Domestic Contact Service (Support Division/OSS)

Rolando Hasferrer

REF: 00A(S) 322/13864-73

ROLANDO MAS FERRER

1. Attached for your information and background orientation' is some material pertaining to Rolando Kasferrer, who appears to be identical to subject of reference.

2. Subject should not be confused with his uncle by the same name, the intamous Kolanco masterrer y rojas (erronex: sty reported as father of subject). The elder Masferrer was ſeprisoned in 1957 for organizing an unsuccessful invasion of Faiti. Young Hasferrer may be engaged in dubious activity and contact with tis should be viewed with cautious circumspection. He may be on a "fishing expedition" to obtain some inforsation on Guillermo Iglesias; or he may be seeking to cement an affiliation with the Agency via the Miant Field Office. Masferrer may not be the good guy that the attached material represents his to be. fie is known to be a wheeling and dealing fast dollar artist. Should he volunteer any information in the future, please note it, and send it to Headquarters. Of specific interest would be any Information he may provide on narcotic trafficing and those involved in this illicit trade.

3. D00 has no interest in young Masferrer. If we can be of further assistance, please advise.

JAMES R. NUPPHY

Attachment
GSAusulin/ds
cc: Services Division (Control)
Flaed HH 23880

E-2 IAPDET CL BY 004476

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET

INITIAL REVIEW FORM

Document Description:

Document Located By:

Document referred to DOC for review by:

RECOMMEND:
Release in full-text
Release in sanitized form
Deny in toto
Defer decision to
Coordination with prior to above denial/release

EXEMPTIONS ARE BEING CLAIMED TO PROTECT THE FOLLOWING:

|                                                             | FOLA   | PRIVACY                                               |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| () Classification                                           | (b)(1) | (k)(1)                                                |
| () Information pertaining to a foreign liaison relationship | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)(c)                                          |
| () Information which would/could identify the source        | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Information pertaining to a source                       | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| (.) Information pertaining to intelligence methods          | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Location of CIA overseas installation                    | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Location of unacknowledged domestic installation         | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Name of CIA employee                                     | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                             |
| () File number                                              | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Pseudonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Cryptonym                                                | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Internal organizational data                             | (b)(3) | (j)(1)(e)                                             |
| () Name of an FBI agent                                     | (b)(7) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () FBI file number                                          | (h)(2) | (j)(1)(b)                                             |
| () Privacy of other individual                              | (b)(6) | (j)(1)(f)                                             |
| () Does not pertain to request                              | N/A    | "Exempted portions are not relevant to the requester" |
| () Information from another Government agency               | (b)(1) | (j)(1)(c)                                             |
| *() Other, specify:                                         |        |                                                       |

*For further guidance regarding exemptions, please see DOJ-75-5943,
16 December 1975 (Privacy Act) and E-70-21, 14 February 1975 (FOIA).

COMMENTS AND/OR SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS.

Document No.
(To be completed by ISS/PIC)

F 2 AMPDET CL BY:

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# 16-88-46

## KMIM
Possible False Recruitment Effort

(Cuba/Haiti)
Rolando dasferrer
c/o Daniel Bermudez
6080 W. Flagler, Apt 17
Miami, Florida

Same

* INTERVIEW
* TRIP REPORT
* OTHER DOCUMENT

Our local colleagues have asked us to report this brief item in order to put it in the system.

FYI and Possible Interest

Copies to:

WH/C/FI - 3-D-38
WH/?/HT 3-8-0001
WH/C/CI 3-D-46

Believes you called van Polonds Monferrer Jr. who is in the region of the Ingernores Rolando Arcadio Marrero y. Ebjion, serving in a U.S. Virgil imin in organization.

SECRET

- end -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE

COUNTRY Cubo/Haiti

SUBJECT Possible False Recruitment Effort

REPORT NO. 00-A(S)-372/13364-73

DATE 25 May 1973

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

## OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

1. At 1750 hours on 14 May 1973 the Miami Field Office received a telephone call on the listed line from an individual who ultimately identified himself as Rolando Masferrer. It is believed that Masferrer is identical with former Cuban senator and Batista associate Rolando Masferrer Rojas who is of dubious reputation and is well known for several nefarious actions in Haiti, Guatemala and Panama elsewhere. Rolando Masferrer was convicted of conspiracy to invade Haiti in 1957. It is believed that there are extensive Agency files on Rolando Masferrer.

2. Masferrer was very reluctant to provide details, but finally said he could be reached at local telephone 251-3639. A separate check reveals this number to be registered to Rafael Bermudez, 6030 W. Flagler, Apartment 417.

3. In any event the listed line caller indicated that he had been approached by one Guillermo Iglesias and asked to engage in certain activities which he did not further describe. According to Masferrer, Iglesias carried credentials or other identifying material which seemed to link him with the U.S. Coast Guard in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Masferrer said, however, that Iglesias indicated also that he was in some way representing the Central Intelligence Agency. Masferrer then said that the purpose of the telephone call was to check on the bona fides of Guillermo Iglesias.

4. Masferrer was told that the same Guillermo Iglesias meant nothing to the Miami Field Office and was otherwise given a rather non-committal response.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# 16-88-46

(When-Filled In)

PROCESS SET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE SECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

![table describing for field use only]

Guillermo Yglesias/Efforts to Raise Money Under Agency Auspices

(Colombia/Venezuela/Guatemala)

Rolando MASFERRER
6030 W. Flagler Avenue
Miami, Florida

Same

METHOD OF COLLECTION

* INTERVIEW
* TRIP REPORT
* OTHER DOCUMENT
* OTHER (Specify below)

DIRECTED TO:

* ALIEN

FIELD COMMENTS:

Our local colleagues wish us to report on Yglesias and record these developments.

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

WH

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS:

HH 25263

WI/1/06/08 - 4D-040

ATTN: (CHRIS Hopkins)

Yglesias is certainly a fraud and should come to the attention of the FBI and Police authorities. Marpener should also be known to them once we sent some background on him to AMI FO. He is a blackmailer. Be very cautious in your handling of it.

![signature]

SECRET

![footer with page number]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

COUNTRY Colombia/Venezuela/Puerto Rico

SUBJECT Guillermo Izquierdo, Vannestra to Ruiz + Money Trans ARF 3rd Agency Airplane

NO. PAGES 2

REFLK CES

# OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

1. On 25 June 1973 the Miami Field Office requested in a call on the Khonkar requested to look with Pablo Perdomo of the Miami Office. Mr. Khafamer said that he had 5 infiltration (recounting
   $$24/4/(US-15)/$$ was down: Automobili Agency. Delgado. Khafamer lines at 6030 W. 6th Lane, Miami, Florida. As a result of his request Pablo Perdomo and Julio Jose-Soto of the Miami FIA Office responded to the call and met with Rolando Khafamer that afternoon.

2. Mr. Khafamer related Cotails of his relationship with one Guillermo Izquierdo, say short 38, as individual, on whom there are other Agency references. According to Izquierdo, Izquierdo approached him in love March 1970 and identified himself as working for the Central Intelligence Agency. Izquierdo said that he was aspiring to replace a Jorge arm of money. Izquierdo stated 621 operations. Izquierdo said that these CIA funds have been tied up as a result of the Undergate affair. He referred to time operation as black operations. Mr. Khafamer said that he knew several high ranking government officials in Colombia, Venezuela, and Guatemala. Khafamer contacted several of these friends in South and called them to rid the Central Intelligence Agency in missing funds for covert operations in South America + the Caribbean. Khafamer has contracted Lionel Penza, a retired Colombian army colonel and presently head of the Colombian Internal Police. He has also contacted one Alvaro Romero, who is on sick leave in immediate Colobia Colombia. Talamono Tolerite Falla.

RES, head of the Venezuela Internal Police. Iglesias showed a great interest in small arms of all types. Khafamer said that he previously turned over three M-26 machine-pistols, hand grenades, 33 caliber type. Landgraff said he told to believe that the weapons would be used in a secret CIA operation in Puerto Rico. This operation was described by Iglasina as a black operation.

3. During our conversation with Izquierdo, he raised an additional point. Khafamer said that he contacted Manuel Vega in Colombia and that Vega agreed to help all that he could. Vega expressed deep concern to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET

Chief, Miami Field Office

Director, Domestic Contact Service (Support Division/OSS)

F-16-88-41
OSS-820-73
31 May 1973

Rolando Masferrer

REF : 00A(S) 322/13364-73 ROLANDO MAS FERRER

1.  Attached for your information and background orientation is some material pertaining to Rolando Masferrer, who appears to be identical to subject of reference.

2.  Subject should not be confused with his uncle by the same name, the infamous Rolando Masferrer y Rojas (erroneously reported as father of subject). The elder Masferrer was imprisoned in 1967 for organizing an unsuccessful invasion of Haiti. Young Masferrer may be engaged in dubious activity and contact with his should be viewed with cautious circumspection. He may be on a "fishing expedition" to obtain some information on Guillermo Iglesias; or he may be seeking to cement an affiliation with the Agency via the Miami Field Office. Masferrer may not be the good guy that the attached material represents him to be. He is known to be a wheeling and dealing fast dollar artist. Should he volunteer any information in the future, please note it, and send it to Headquarters. Of specific interest would be any information he may provide on narcotic trafficing and those involved in this illicit trade.

3.  DDO has no interest in young Masferrer. If we can be of further assistance, please advise.

JAMES R. MURPHY

Attachment
GSMusulin/ds
cc: Services Division (Control)
Filed HH 23880

E-2 IMPDET CL BY 004476

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)