# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADV LA 1900Z

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

ACTION: C/LA-B INFO: FILE, VR, C/CCS, C/CI-4, D/COMMO-5, CWO-
DDA, C/IP/DMS. ODPD-D, OGC-2, OLC, D/SECUR-3, DCI/PA, DDO-4, CS/RF,

78 0443808 PAGE 001 IN 0443808
TOR: 211827Z MAR 78 MEXI 44345

SECRET 211706Z MAR 78 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 44345

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

ININTEL RYBAT MHSPLASH

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 190792
B. MEXICO CITY 44308 0429877
C. DIRECTOR 184902

1. REF A CABLE ANSWERS SOME OF THE QUESTIONS OF PRIMARY
   CONCERN TO THIS STATION, BUT AT SAME TIME, IT CONFIRMS THE WORST
   FEARS EXPRESSED IN REF B CONCERNING REVELATIONS ABOUT OPERATIONS
   AGAINST THE SOVIET TARGET IN MEXICO CITY.

2. IN ORDER OF IMPORTANCE, THE NBC PROGRAM CANNOT HELP BUT
   BE DAMAGING TO U.S. SECURITY INTERESTS AND THIS AGENCY IN THE
   FOLLOWING MANNER:

A. REVELATION OF SOURCES. THE STATEMENT BY BACH IN
REF C THAT HE "HAD NOT IDENTIFIED ANY SOURCES BY NAME OR DES-
CRIPTION THROUGHOUT THE TAPING..." IS REFUTED BY THE STATEMENT
THAT A SOVIET WAS RECRUITED BY FORMER COS (ROGER T. KINGMAN)
DURING HIS TOUR. APART FROM THE DESCRIPTION OF THE CIRCUM-
STANCES UNDER WHICH THE RECRUITMENT WAS MADE, THE SIMPLE STATE-
MENT THAT A SOVIET OFFICIAL WAS RECRUITED IS SUFFICIENT TO
SET OFF A FULL SCALE INVESTIGATION BY THE KGB INTO EVERY
SOVIET OFFICIAL WHO SERVED IN MEXICO CITY DURING THAT TIME
FRAME. THE SOVIETS HAVE THE RESOURCES AND DETERMINATION TO
EVENTUALLY IDENTIFY THE SPY,

B. FUTURE RECRUITMENTS. HOW WILL IT BE POSSIBLE FOR
THIS AGENCY TO RECRUIT SOVIETS, OR ANYONE FOR THAT MATTER, IF
THE AGENCY CANNOT OFFER GUARANTEES THAT THE IDENTITY OF SOURCES
MILL NOT BE EXPOSED BY SOME EMPLOYEE, REGARDLESS OF MOTIVATION?
WHILE THIS PROGRAM KILL HAVE INMEDIATE IMPACT IN MEXICO CITY,
LA PAZ, AND MONTEVIDEO, THE FALLOUT AFFECTING FUTURE RECRUITMENTS
AILL BE WORLD WIDE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

STAFF

PAGE 002
TOR: 211827Z MAR 78 IN 0443808
MEXI 44345

C. REVELATION OF METHODS. THE OPERATIONAL TRADECRAFT AND METHODS (TELTAPS) REVEALED BY BACH ARE STILL IN PRACTICE AT THIS STATION. WHILE IT MAY BE ARGUED THAT THE METHODS HAVE BEEN EXPOSED BY OTHERS SUCH AS AGEE, THE BACH REVELATIONS WILL HAVE FAR GREATER IMPACT BECAUSE THEY CARRY THE IMPRIMATUR OF A REPUTABLE U.S. NEWS AGENCY AND ORIGINATE WITH A PERSON WHO IS NOT IN LEAGUE WITH ANY HOSTILE COUNTRY (AS FAR AS WE KNOW).

D. DAMAGE TO LIAISON. A CONSIDERABLE SEGMENT OF THIS STATION'S OPERATIONS ARE BASED ON LIAISON CO-OPERATION. THE RELATIONSHIP THIS STATION ENJOYS WITH HIGH LEVELS OF THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT ALSO PROVIDES A HUNTING LICENSE FOR UNILATERAL ENDEAVORS. THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT IS EXTREMELY SENSITIVE TO THE POSSIBILITY OF EXPOSURE OF INSTANCES OF CO-OPERATION. THE POLITICAL RISK WHICH THE GOVERNMENT IS WILLING TO UNDERGO FOR THIS AGENCY IS NOT UNLIMITED. EXISTING OR POTENTIAL OPERATIONS COULD BE CURTAILED.

E. DAMAGE TO EXISTING SOURCES. IT REMAINS TO BE SEEN HOW MANY CURRENT SOURCES WILL CONTINUE COLLABORATING WITH THE AGENCY IN MEXICO CITY (OR OTHER STATIONS) AFTER THIS PROGRAM IS RELEASED.

F. EMBARRASSMENT TO PRESIDENT LOPEZ PORTILLO, AS NOTED IN REF B, THE MEXICAN PRESIDENT WILL TRAVEL TO MOSCOW ON A STATE VISIT IN ABOUT SIX WEEKS TIME. AS A MEANS TO DAMAGE CIA, IT WOULD NOT BE UNLIKE THE SOVIETS TO POINT OUT THAT UNBRIDLED CIA OPERATIONS AGAINST A LEGITIMATE SOVIET PRESENCE IN MEXICO ARE A MATTER OF CONCERN TO THE SOVIET UNION AND A POTENTIAL IMPEDIMENT TO CONTINUING FRIENDLY RELATIONS BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES. THE PRESIDENT MAY CHOOSE TO FINESSE SUCH A STATEMENT, BUT THE POINT WILL HAVE BEEN MADE.

G. STATION SECURITY. DURING PAST MONTHS, HARDLY A DAY HAS PASSED WHEN THE LOCAL PRESS HAS NOT CARRIED SOME ATTACK AGAINST ALLEGED CIA ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO, WITHIN RECENT WEEKS, THE AGENCY HAS BEEN ACCUSED OF EVERY CRIME FROM THE MURDER OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY TO THE ABDUCTION OF ALDO MORO. THE NBC PROGRAM WILL PROVIDE NEW GRIST FOR THE LOCAL PROPAGANDA MACHINE AND FURTHER HIGHLIGHT CIA PRESENCE IN MEXICO WITH CONCOMITANT EROSION OF STATION SECURITY.

H. FUTURE BACH REVELATIONS. THERE PROBABLY IS NO WAY TO ESTIMATE THE AMOUNT OF INFORMATION THAT BACH HAS REVEALED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS. BACH ADMITS THAT HE HAS UNBURDENED HIS SOUL TO HIS FRIENDS, AND UNDOUBTEDLY HAS PROVIDED MATERIAL TO NBC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

78 0443808

SECRET

STAFF

PAGE 003
TOR: 211827Z MAR 78
IN 0443808
MEXI 44345

WHICH WAS NOT USED ON THE PROGRAM. FURTHER, AFTER THE PROGRAM
IS BROADCAST, BACH WILL BECOME AN INSTANT CELEBRITY AND A
SUBJECT OF INTEREST TO OTHER NEWSMEN OF VARIOUS STRIPES. WHEN
WILL HIS REVELATIONS. END?

3. STATION WOULD APPRECIATE RECEIVING MORE PRECISE IDENTIFI-
   CATION OF SITES MENTIONED PARA 5 REF A, PARTICULARLY THOSE OF
   RESIDENCES AND LANDMARKS. WERE THESE THE RESIDENCES OF FORMER
   OR CURRENT STATION PERSONNEL? WOULD ANY OF THE LANDMARKS BE OF
   CONCERN TO THE MEXICAN GOVERNMENT? RECOGNIZE THAT IN ABSENCE OF
   SOUND TRACK, THAT IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT FOR ANYONE EXCEPT A
   PERSON FAMILIAR WITH MEXICO CITY AND STATION OPS ACTIVITIES TO
   IDENTIFY THESE LOCATIONS AND JUDGE THEIR SIGNIFICANCE. NEVERTHELESS,
   SUCH INFO ESSENTIAL IF STATION TO COMPLETE DAMAGE ASSESSMENT
   PRIOR BROADCAST OF THIS PROGRAM. PLS ADVISE SOONEST.

4. FILE: 200-120-150, E2, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)