104-10140-10101

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTE USE ONLY

JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 10 November 1977

1. (Unclassified - MLG) EMPLOYMENT REQUESTS Concerning Debbie's, in the office of Representative Douglas Applegate (D., Ohio), request as to whether we had received an application from their constituent, Robert Sensibaugh, I informed her, per the Office of Personnel, that we had not as of yet. She thanked me for my help.

2. (Unclassified - MLG) LIAISON Per her request I forwarded to Karen, in the office of Representative Mario Biaggi (D., N. Y.), a copy of the press release that went out regarding the CIA tours.

3. (Unclassified - MG) LIAISON Received a call from Ted Winicov, in the office of Representative Richard T. Schulze (R., Pa.), who requested a copy of the Agency publication "Soviet Commercial Operations in the West." I told him a copy would be forwarded to him.

4. (Unclassified - KSN) LIAISON Called Dawn, secretary to Professor G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, and set up a meeting for tomorrow afternoon for Mr. Sidney Stembridge, DD/OS, and Mr. Cummins to meet with Professor Blakey.

5. (Secret - DTC) LIAISON Called Professor G. Robert Blakey, Chief Counsel and Director, House Select Committee on Assassinations, and informed him that we had received six Privacy Act requests from members of the Select Committee staff asking for any security information on them which is held by the Agency. I did not provide the names of the requesters to Blakey.

6. (Internal Use Only - RJK) LIAISON Keith Raffel, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, visited the Badge Office and received his Headquarters badge. He then proceeded to the C&R conference room where he reviewed extracts of NIS's relating to the security services of the United (1,111 Kingdom, Australia, and France) Evvy Vidal, O/SA/DO/O, assisted with the (United Kingdom liaison) service aspects.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)