# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

19 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/SA/CI

VIA : Chief, WH/PO/A

SUBJECT : AMMUG/1.Operation
Target Analysis and Non-surfacable Leads

1. Reference is made to your memorandum date 16 June 1964 requesting Target Analysis Summary Reports on leads to be exploited and lists of those leads which the Branch desires not to be surfaced to the Intelligence community.

2. Attached are separate lists for each appropriate Central American and Caribbean country detailing nationals of each country whose names have been mentioned or otherwise cropped up during the debriefing of AMMUC/1. WH/2 considers, at this time, that it is not feasible nor desirable to surface any of these leads to the intelligence community, pending a final determination as to the feasibility of pursuring some of these leads for operational exploitation. Those leada which are determined to be of no operational potential will be released to your office on a continuing basis for surfacing to appropriate agencies.

3. Attached also are seven completed Target Analysis Summary Reports on:

a) Francisco Javier HELLA Pena

b) Jaime DURAN Hernando

c) Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Sehuroer

d) Jean Norbert MONTERO

e) Mauricio de la SELVA Venegas

f) Roque DALTON Garcia


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

-2-

g) Noel GUERRERO Santiago

These individuals represent immediate targets on whon we have already undertaken action. We anticipate that certain selected other individuals from the lists cited in paragraph one above will become targets, and accordingly, are in the process of examining and investigating these. As these individuals are culled through, Target Analysis Summary Reports shall be prepared and forwarded to your office.

26
[John M. Whitten]
C/WH/2

Attachments:
Target Analysis Summary Reports
AMMUG/1 Leads Not to be Disseminated

Distribution:
0 & 1 - C/WH/SA/CI (w/atts)
1 - WH/PO/A (w/atts)
3 - WH/2 (w/atts)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Dominican Republic Leads Not to be Disseminated

Francisco Javier HELLA Pena

Jaime DURAN Hercando

Socrates Isaias PEGUED Schuroer

Elpidio RUIZ (this is an alias of "TIBURON" - true name still not known)

David Onelio ESPAILLAT Campos

Francisco Eleuterio RAMOS Peguero

Francisco Elizardo RAMOS Peguero

Teresa Inocencia ESPAILLAT Hernandez

Jose Bienvenido GUZINA Nouel

Hector Augusto CARRAL Ortega

Leopoldo Ariosto GRULLON Ruiz

Jose CASSA Lagrono

Silvano LORA Vicente

Ilander Zanoni SALIG Delmonte

Ana Mercedes ESPINAL de Castro

Baldemiro CASTRO Garcia

Marcelino GRULLON Jimenez

Benito ALEJO German

Jorge ROTELLO Fernandez

Rafael Francisco TAVERAS Rosario

Hugo TOJOS Vargas

Cayetano Armando RODRIGUEZ Del Prado

# ANKWO/1 Operation


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Antonio Emilio Jose DiA Conde

Simon BOLIVAR

Arturo Rafael ASPAILLAT Rodrigues

Carmen E. HERNANDEZ de Faxas

Ernesto LOPEZ Molina

Maximo LOPEZ Molina

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

El Salvador Leads Not to be Disseminated

AM:00/1 Operation

Roberto BARCIANO Marin GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Raul Fernando ESCOBAR Melendez GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only X

Carlos Alberto FLORES Hernandez GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only X

Juan Ramon LOZANO Rosales ALIAS of ROBERTO BERCIANO Marin

Carlos MARTINEZ Ortiz DEAD - GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Ricardo Augusto MARTINEZ Vanegas GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Ivan Danilo RODRIGUEZ Leon GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING. only X

Lisandro RAMIREZ Solis GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only X

Pedro RODRIGUEZ GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Ciro Arturo RUI! Torres GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only (Contact with)

Victor Manuel SANCHEZ Bonilla GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Rafael CONTRERAS Molina P3100 of VICTOR SANCHEZ B.NILLA

Arturo ALFARO Fuentes GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Raul Antonio VARGAS GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Andres Antonio VELASQUEZ GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Roque DALTON Garcia

Manuel Antonio CALERO GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING & GUN RUNNING & EXFILICATION

Jose Alberto CARRILLO Calderon KNown to AMMO/1 [GRIN-1] (AGENT)

Jose Salvador Rosales GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Ricardo CASTRO Rivas AGENT? [GRIN-1] IN CONTACT WITH CASTRO

Francisco DUPAN Cardano GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only X

Freddy Guerra GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Armando LOPEZ Mantiel GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Jose Antonio GARCIA Rivera GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only X


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

-2-

*   Pedro SANTACRUZ Castro GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only X

*   Ruben MART. Quardado GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

? Raul Concepcion Morales NO REGIRD IN AMMUG-I INDEX WH/51/01

*   Jose MANCIA Martinez GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY
    INDIVIDUAL NAMED RICARDO MARTINEZ ALSO TRAINING IN CUBA
    Ricardo MARTINEZ NAME USED BY ALEVANO. GOMEZ MULTANO

*   Jesus Antonio PAZ GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY

*   Rita RAMIREZ GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING only

Pedro AREVALO VALDEZ - ALIAS OF JESUS ANTONIO PAZ

TA [Jorge Federico BAIRES] AGENT? AMMUG-I KNOWS-![unclear] GRI-1 IN CONTACT WITH SUBV.

*   Ana Leticia BUJLAZA (BARRAGAN) Quiroa GUERRILLA WARFARE TRAINING ONLY X

? Raul Castellanos MENTIONED IN WH/ITEMS HAS SUMMISED TO MEET
AMMUG-I IN MEXICO

TA [Tomas GUERRA RIVAS] 201 [247812]08AGENT ![unclear] AGENTS TO AMMUG I ![unclear] GRI-1
[247812]08

TA(201[Alejandro MONTAÑO GOMEZ] OR [GOMEZ MONTAÑO] AGENTS TO AMMUG I ![unclear]

[Rafael ACEVEDO Blanco] ACCO ADDRESS IN ZAPOTE CASE

[Jose Manlio ARGUETA Canas] 201 (26.250)[unclear]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

Guatemala Leads Not to be Disseminated AM-OG/1 Operation

Antonio JUNH Marcos

Julio CAMARA Sierra G/W

Francisco CRUZ Figueroa G/W

Victor Manuel CUELLAR Carranza G/W

Bernardo DIAZ Mendez G/W ou.v

Rolando HERRERA Hernandez G/W

Marco Antonio LEONI Aguilar G/W AMMUC-1 HNEWS

Edgar Roberto LOBO Dubon GW AMMUC-1 HNEWS

Jose Aquiles L. MORALES G/W AMMUC-1 HNEWS

Manuel Josue ORTEGA Paz

Angel PALENCIA Sanchez G/W only

Ricardo Arturo GUZMAN (pseudos: Alberto SANTOS Melgar)

Jacobo ARBENZ Guzman

Mario BARRIENTOS

Manuel GALICH

Carmen ROMEROSO Sosa

Fernando SOSA Pol

Marco Antonio YON Sosa

Luis Augusto TURCIOS Lina

Francisco AMADO Granados

Alicia MOYA do Amado

Jose Manuel FORTUNY

Victor Manuel GUTIERREZ Garbin

Isabel POHL Romero do Sosa

Jose ROGAL S

Nolida TURCIOS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Haiti Leads Not to be Disseminated

Jorge Norbert MONTERO

Rene DEPESTRE

(Unknown) "PITIN"

AUG/1 Operation

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Honduras Leads Not to be Diasenina tod

APIUS/1 Operation

Maglio OREO Espinal

Mario S0SA Navarro

Luis Randolfo BANEGAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Nicaragua Leads Not to be Dissoninated

ANTS/1 Operation

Noel OUERRERO Santiago

Professor TORRES (probably delberto TORRES Espinoza)

Silvio MATURGA (or MALLORCA)

Ernesto MARTINEZ

German PALACHI Baca

Efrain SANCHEZ

Carlos A. TINDCO Montiel

Harvin CASTRO

Felix HONTERREY Dobil

alicio Diharinto 00:ZALEZ Foreno

Alejandro ALEGRIA Bermudez

Juan Jose GARCIA Lorio

21 ALTAMIRANO

Bayerdo ALTAMIRAIO Lopez

Ivan BACA

Alejandro Bבתשוק

Anibal LORIO Garcia

Enrique KARENCO

Orlando QUANT Quintena

Rolando QUANT

Monterrey IES

Rodolfo ROMELD Gomes

frain SANH 2 Sancho


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Panama Leads Not to be Disseminated

A1 Operation

Thelma KING

Jorge TURNER

(Unknown) "Luis Sonrisa Case" - 2 male guitarists


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

Dominican Republic

*Target Analysis Summary Report

AMSOUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Francisco Javier MELLA Pena aka Francisco Javier MELIA Dona aka "Pichi"

I. Significance of Target

a) Cuban Intelligence Service Connection

MELLA has been identified as a Singleton Cuban Intelligence Service Agent in the Dominican Republic, trained as a frogman, and also in s/d and ciphers. His exact mission on behalf of the CIS is not knowm.

b) Communist Party Affiliation

Subject is a member of the Castroist revolutionary Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio (APCJ-lith of June Political Group). The APCJ is not a Comunist Party per ses however, its present, dominant leaders are Narxist-Communist In their political direction. The APCJ is presumed penetrated by actual Communista, and is known to receive coral and material support from Cuba.

c) Information which Could be obtained

1. His exact mission on behalf of the Cuban Intelligence Service. What information is he required to furnish to the Jervice? The reason for this informtion.

2. what persons will he uso to acquire this information? Will they all be unwitting?

3. what is his exact role as a frogsani (for aras caches, demolition etc..)

4. Information on his accomodation address in France. Additional information on his accomodation address in Jamaica.

5. Information on the relationship between Cuba and the APCJ and plans for the Dominican Republic.

6. Information on other Cuban C agents known to مجلف

7. Doubling (see III for more details).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

- 2 -

II. Current Location

Hermanos Miralles No. 5, Madrid, Spain (since February 1964, when
he went there from Cuba. In Madrid, he was joined by his Dominican
girl-friend, Xiomara SALADE Decillo, whom he married there. Neither
has yet returned to the Dominican Republic.) His last known address
in the Dominican Republic is Avenida Independencia No. 55, Santo Domingo.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

None Known. The only information on NELLA was acquired in April 1963
when he transited Mexico enroute to Cuba. At that time NELLA became
quite upset when "sallo a Cuba" (left for Cuba) was stamped in his
passport. Accordingly, with this being the only past information on
subject, we would be starting from "scratch".

IV. Family and Relatives

a) wife: Xiomara SALADE Decillo, Dominican citizen (no information)

Father: Luis MELLA, Dominican citizen (no information)

Mother: Noemi (nes unknown) de MELLA, Dominican citizen (no information)

(The Santo Domingo Station is presently conducting an investigation
of his relatives)

b) None known to be in the United States.

V. Biographic

Date of Birth: 25 February 1937
Place of Birth: Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Citizenship: Dominican Republic
Language: Native Spanish (only language capability known to us at
this time)
Physical Description:

5' 10" tall
140 pounds
black hair (cut short - but not crew-cut)
dark brown eyes
swarthy complexion

Photograph: Is available at the base
Other pertinent Data: NELLA could be described as "pretty". He has
no mustache and does not shave.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

- 3 -

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

a) (3TA/19 - Lives in same apartment building area as Subject. Has furnished some information on Subject and his girl-friend, which he obtained through normal contacts.

b) [Jaime DURAN Hernando]- Operational Lead only (see separate target sheet). He is close to MILLA and also could lead us to a still unidentified CIS agent "TIBURON" who used DURAN as an unwitting courier for the delivery of microfilm to Cuba.

c) (35/1 - Although not a leader of the APCJ, he has good access to the APCJ's extremist "circle". He has been used with extremely good results for information on other Cuban targets of interest.

VII. Evaluation:

a) As was stated above, MELLA is completely new to us. However, the Station is currently conducting an investigation of MELLA in an effort to determine his vulnerability for recruitment/defection.

b) With the present ruling Dominican Triumvirate, Subject could be arrested if he came to security notice, not only in his position with the CIS but also if he became involved in any subversive Communist activities. In the event he is arrested he undoubtedly would be deported.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# Dominican Republic

Target Analysis Xumary Repert AMYG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Jaino DURAN Hernando aka Jaime DURAN Hornandes aka "Jimmy"

I. Significance of Target

a) Connection with Cuban Intelligence Service

Subject is not a Cuban Intelligence Service agent, but did receive guerrilla training in Cuba.

b) Communist Party Affiliation

DURAN is Secretary-General of the pro-Castro Agrupacion Politica de Catorce Junio (APCJ-11.th of June Hovement) in the Dominican Republic, and is a sember of that faction of the APCJ favoring the training of its members to direct the future of a socialist government.

c) Subject is a close friend of Francisco Javier MELLA fena, an identified Cuban Intolligence Service Agent in the Doxinican Republic. Subject was also used as an "unsitting courier by a still unidentified Cuban IS agent "TIBURON in the Dozinican Republic. Subject unwittingly carried to Cuba for "TISON in september 1963, a catch-book containing microfile.

d) Utility - Penetration of the 14 June & plana & intentions of the lubans vs D.R.

II. Curront Location

Believed to be in Cuba. Has been there since September 12.J.
Last anom Dominican Republic address: paillat 20, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitent or defection)

None nom. (Also see VII Evaluation)

IV. Family and relativos

a) Sifo Gloria ACEVELO da Duran, Dominican citizen (no laforsation) No other relativos known.

b) No known relatives in the U.S.A.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

V. Biographic Data

Date of Birth: 17 June 1933
Place of Birth: Jarabacos, Dominican Republic
Citizenship: Dominican Republic
Language ability: Native Spanish (only ability known to us at this time)
Physical description: (requesting from the station)
Photograph: Is available at the Desk

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

CHOTH/19 - Lives in the same residential section as DURAN. Has furnished some information on Subject, which he obtains through normal contacts.

CHROSS/1 - Has provided numerous reports on DURAN's activities within the APCJ.

BOONG/1 - Has provided brief information on Subject's activities within the APCJ and his travel to Cuba.

VII. Evaluation

In that we presume that DURAN is a hard-core Communist and at present have scant information for a target assessment, immediate prospects for recruitment are virtually nil. Requirements can be levied on CHOTH/1 since he is a controlled source; information could be elicited from CHOTH/19 and possibly from CROSS/1. As developed, leads from foregoing could be followed up on, but, as indicated above, we will be starting at the bottom of the ladder on DURAN as an operational target.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# Cuba - Dominican Republic

Target Analysis Summary Report  ANPU/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Socrates Isaias PEGUERO Schuorer alias Nelson BARET Disla aka "Pupo"

I. Significance of Target

In that Subject lives in Cuba he could be extremely valuable to WH/SA and at/2/Dominican Republic.

a) Connection with Cuban Intelligence Service

PEQUERO is the APCJ (Agrupacion Politica Catorce de Junio - 1'th of June Political Group) representative in Cuba acting as focal point between the APCJ and the Cuban Intelligence Service (XII).

b) Communist Party Affiliation

APCJ representative in Cuba. Subject has been reported as a member of the pro-Castro faction of the APCJ since 1961 when he was exiled in Curacao.

c) Information which Subject Could Furnish

1. Subject could furnish information on the relationship between the Cuban Intelligence Service and the APCJ.

2. Information on the APCJ as a party, plans, members etc.

3. Information on Cuban Intelligence Service personnel known to him.

4. Possible operations of the Cuban Intelligence Service against the Dominican Republic.

5. Possible information on matters of interest to WH/SA within Cuba.

6. Doubling as a penetration of the Cuban Intelligence Service and the APCJ.

7. Information on Dominicans being trained in Cuba, not only in guerrilla training, but as agents.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

## II. Current Location

Lives in Habana, Cuba (address unknown). In Cuba he goes by the name of Nelson BAR:T.

## III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

None known. No information on his activities since 1961 is known.

## IV. Family and Relatives

a) Wife - Gisela SSICION de Peguero, daughter of former Dominican Consul in Curacao.

b) Children - one daughter (name and age unknown), and one son (name unknown) born in Habana, Cuba in December 1963.

c) Father - Isaias PEGUERO Perez (deceased)

d) Mother - Tulia (nee unknown) de PEGUERO (no additional information)

e) Brother - Nelson Ramon PEQUENO Semorer (deceased)

f) Sisters - Sobeya O. FIGUERO Schourer and Maria A. PEGUERO Semorer (no additional information)

g) No relatives known to be in the United States.

## V. Biographic Data

Date of Birth: 11. January 1929

Place of Birth: San Pedro de Macoris, Dominican Republic

(NOTE: when travelling uses Dominican passport issued 23 July 1963 in the name of Nelson BARET Disla, date and place of birth: 23 January 1939, Dominican Republic; occupation: student)

Citizenship: Dominican Republic? possibly changed to Cuban.

Language ability: Native Spanish; others not known.

Physical Description: 5'7" tall

150 pounds

brown-skinned

black eyes

wears eyeglasses

wears moustache

Photograph is available of him and also the real Nelson BARET Disla

Other pertinent data: Laboratory Technician


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

We have several sources reporting on activities of the APCJ, its members etc. within the Dominican Republic CROSS/1 and/or 02( CROSS/17 could be used to elicit information on PEDUERO through their normal contacts. LOGOSS/1 is being used at this time to report on other Cuban targets.

VII. Evaluation

While there is no information on hand to indicate Subject is approachable, the fact that he is in Cuba, known to AX-00/1 - whom might approach him - and has been identified to us he becomes of operational interest. Obviously our objective is to continue our interest and collect what information we might, awaiting the day for his exit from Cuba. At that time more definitive action might be considered. His importance as a source of information on inside Cuba and that country's intention and capabilities on the Dominican Republic cannot be discounted and merit our continued alertness to his activities and whereabouts.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# Target Analysis Summary Report

SUBJECT: Roque DALTON Garcia

AMMUG/1 Operation

## I. Significance of Target

DALTON is a recruited agent of the Cuban DGI. He has been trained in guerrilla warfare, B/v, radio transmission, and radio reception. AMMUG/1 claims that Subject is a member of the Central Committee of the PCES. AMDIUG/1 characterized Subject as having excellent contacts within the DGI in Cuba. Subject is in contact with Mauricio de la Selva Venegas, the Salvadoran intermediary, in Mexico City. In view of the above, Subject could be expected to furnish considerable information on both the PCES in El Salvador and his activities for the DGI.

## II. Current Location

Subject was deported from El Salvador to Mexico in late January 1964. On 16 June 1964 Subject was spotted by the Salvadoran National Police in San Salvador, and is now under surveillance. Exact address will be obtained by the San Salvadoran Station.

## III. Vulnerabilities

AMMUG/1 lists Subject as his leading candidate for recruit- ment by us. His reasoning on this is that Subject is not highly motivated, has a weakness for women and the easy life, and a generally weak nature. AMMUC/1 says that Subject is very intelligent, but never showed a real desire to learn during his Cuban training. Subject was given 600 dollars to purchase a radio receiver upon his return from Cuba, but he apparently spent the money on himself.

## IV. Family and Relatives

Father (deceased) was U.S. citizen. One of Subject's three brothers fought for the U.S. in Okinawa. A sister, Margarita, is Mexican citizen who now is in Cubaas a student.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

V. Biographic Data

DOB: 14 May 1935
POB: San Salvador, El Salvador
Nationality: Salvadoran
Language Ability: Native Spanish; others not known
Physical Description: Height 1.68 meters; long thin
face; black eyes; two gold teech; thinlipped; black
hair parted on left side.
Photo Available: Yes

VI. Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

Subject is known personally by AMMCG-1 and by JOCRIN-1, recently recruited agent of San Salvador Station. Subject is presently under surveillance by the National Police in San Salvador (Station has unilateral penetration of the police who might be used as a lead into Subject).

VII. Evaluation

From AMMUG-l's assessment of Subject, based on personal knowledge and observation, it would appear that Subject would not be a too difficult target to hit. However, some of his personal characteristics which have made him a handling problem for the DCI would presumably make him a handling problem for us. His failure to perform for the DGI since October 1963 might mitigate against our use of him which would include, presumably, resumption of his s/w channel. Nonetheless, AMMUG-1's claim that Subject is a maber of the Central Committee of the PCES (news to us) makes his an operational target for that reason alone.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# Haiti

Target Analysis Summary Report

AMUG/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Jean Norbert MONTERO

I. Significance of Target

a) Comection wita Cuban Intelligence Service

At this time Subject is not an agent of the Cuban Intelligence Service. He is currently in Cuba seeking assistance from the DGI for the training of Haitians in guerrilla warfare activities for an eventual thrust against Haiti to cust President Francois JUVALIER.

b) Communist Party Affiliation

Secretary-General of the Haitian Liberation Pront, a nexly formed party, with the ultimate aim of merying the two communist parties of Haiti. Sensitive information available at the best indicates that this party is Moscow influenced.7

c) Information which Jubject Could Furnish

1. Subject could provide valuable information on the Haitian Liberation Front, 1.e., its meibers, plans, status with the 0552/Cuba etc.

2. Information on the USR/Cuba position with respect to Haiti.

3. Information on USSR/Cuba influence and penetrations of Haitian ezila circles.

4. Information on Cuban's relationship with President Francois DUVALIA.

5. Information on Haitians now in Cuba and/or the USSR.

II. Current Location

As of April 14 he was living at the Sotel Calina in Habana, Cuba. dis permanent residance is believed to be in Santo Domingo, Cocinican Republic where he has been in extie.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

- 2 -

### Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

None known. He is strongly anti-DUVALIER. In that many Haitian exile circles are somewhat down on the United States as a result of the unsuccessful September 1963 Invasion of Haiti, it is possible that subject merely turned to the "left" for assistance in overthrowing DUVALIER. It is however quite feasible that he would cooperate with the United States if he felt we were taking an anti-DUVALIER stand.

### Family and Relatives

None known.

### Biographic Data

Date of Birth: Unknown
Place of Birth: Haiti (?)
Citizenship: Haitian
Language ability: Native French or Creole; very little Spanish
Physical description: 5 feet tall
150 pounds
wears mustache
Negro

Photograph is not available
Other pertinent data: None

### Operational Leads and Lines to Subject for Recruitment or Defection

a) CLAC/1 - [Haitian exile leader in the Dominican Republic who housed the (SITA?) exile group in 1963.]

b) CWSH/1 - [Haitian exile in the Dominican Republic who stayed with HURTADO in the Dominican Republic in 1963.]

c) CVNS/1 - [Asset in Haiti] who is only in a position to make discreet inquiries regarding MONTANO.

d) COLLON/1 - [Asset in Haiti] who is only in a position to make discreet inquiries regarding MONTANO.

### Evaluation

a) Until information has been gleaned from the assets cited in VI above regarding subject's vulnerability to recruitment little can be done. However, as was pointed out in III above, it is highly probable that subject merely turned to Cuba for assistance in overthrowing President DUVALIER of Haiti.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

-3-

b) Subject is not subject to arrest when he returns to the Dominican Republic, unless of course, his activities with the Cubans become *mon*. In any event he definitely would not return to Haiti, as he would immediately be imprisoned and most probably tortured and killed.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# Target Analysis Summary Report

AUX'X/1 Operation

SUBJECT: Yoel GUERRERO Santiago (201-81510)

I. Significance of Target

GUENEKRO is presently in Xexico and is "intermediary" between Cuban Is and the FLN in Nicaragua. His Cuba Intel psevdo is Andres Madariaga. ANGUC-l saw hia in Mexico in March 1964 regarding funds which the DGI had provided the FLN. According to AMMDG-1 GULRHERO is involved in 'lijos de la Tempestad" which also involves three or four other ICI agents. AMNIX-l also reported that GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claims he spent money inproperly. The FLY has no confidence in bis and considers hia covaraly and lacking in fighting spirit. By other sources he has been described as one of the main Communists in Central America. was in Cuba in 1939 to get Cubed aid fromthe revolutionary movement against Nicaragua. He was tormerly a DenDer of the Communist Party in Lexico. Fe van a cell leader in Corinto and advisor to the tevador's Irion.

II. Current Location

He is presently in Mexico. He was a political exile in Honduras in 1959. He has travelled extensively throughout Central America ami may have been clandestinely in Nicaragua in July 1968.

III. Vulnerabilities (for recruitment or defection)

ANMUG-1: GUERRERO is in trouble with the FLN which claim he spent money laproperly. The Fit has no confidence in his, and considers him cowardly and lacking in fighting spirit. Among Aliul documents is a critique of the abortive incursion in Nicaragua in July 1963 by Silvio Mayorga and Orlando quant (uintana which Diames GUERAFRO for its failure. GUERE ERO's own account admita certain mistakes and tries to justify others. Lowever, it aust be borne in wind that GUERRERO is a long tisa


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

-2-

Communist, anti-Somoza revolutionary.

IV. Family and Relatives

Wife: Ofelia Chacon
Brother: Dr. Eloy GUERRERO Santiago, suspected
Communist, says Noel is Coraunist. Eloy is anti-
Somoza, has spent time in jail.
Father: Jose F. GUERRERO Castillo, resident of Leon
(DOI: 1955)

V. Personalia

DOB: 12 April 1914
POB: Leon, Nicaragus
Nationality: Nicaraguan
Languages: Spanish and English
Religion: Professes none
Zuucation: 2 courses first year lav
Photo: Availablo in Biographic Register
Physical description: 5'3", grey hair, dark brown
eyes, complexion triqueno daro (light brunette).'

VI. Onerational Leads and Lines to Subject for secruitment
or betection

AD-1 knows him personally, was in contact with his
in Kexico Lo March 1984.

VII. Evaluation

In 1942 or 1947 (reported both ways) CUERRIKO was expelled
from the sexican Communist Party (POI) according to
another sonber of the PC (LIMAN) who was a recruitment
candicete (but dropped), and who said that CUERRERO night
then be amenable to recruitmaat. Apparently no attempt
was made to recruit him. De has been recorded throughout
the years since as an active Communist revolutionary sad
vas exiled from Hicaragua for revolutionary activities
ia 1959. Also in 1959 he went to Ciha and was activ
there in preparing for the revolutionary movement in all
Latin America. Ho apparently was working for Cuban 13
at the time of the alortive revolutionary attempt against
Nicaragua in 1963, as a document provided by A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

-3-

written by Madariaga (GUERRERO's patedo) attempts to point out reasons for its failure. Another dowent written by Silvio Kayorga and Orlando quant blanes "Andres" (GUERRERO) for its failure. GUZRHINO, Lovever, sust still be in the good graces of the Cuban IS, if he is an agent in the "hijos de la Teapestad" and serves as "intermediary" to the FLN, or remnants which may be roorganizing. It seems highly unlikely that GUERRERO would be receptive to either recruitment or defoction. AMMUG-1 knows him personally and met with hin in Kexico in March 1964. It would appear that AUNIX-1 could furnish more information about his contact with GUERRERO which would be helpful in an assessment of GUERKRO.

There is a report that CHERRERO was in Micaragua clandestinely in 1962. He would undoubtedly bo arrested should he return there and his presence discovered by the Nicaraguans.

NOTE: This is put a couplate target analysis and should not be used as such.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)