14-00000
104-10163-10136
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CL SIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE        | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ----------- | -------- |
| 1   | JAS/ESCC         | 1 Aug 63/KM |          |
| 2   | JAS/CI/Keube     | 6 Aug WC    |          |
| 3   | Hem- gr file     |             |          |
| 4   | AMCLATTER/I.     |             |          |
| 5   |                  |             |          |
| 6   |                  |             |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADGREN AND PHONE NO. DATE

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
2-61 237 Use previous editions (40)

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

"Former Contacte Havana Station

able personel courage, good security and common sense. In my mind he
is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real loss to
the Agency if we lose sight or contact with adolfo. I have net few pen
more dedicated and more loyal.

5. [Ramon USATEGUI Lezara] AMFAN-3. Fecruited by APAN-2 and so
   close to each other that we referred to them as the "Gold Dust Twins."
   Ramon was in the shipping business in Havana and eventually had to
   leave. He lost his hore, cars, furaishiars, etc. His firm is now
   planning to send him to Nicaragua, and I have recommended him to the
   Nicaragua desk. (Frenta) 03 He has all the qualities ascribed to
   Adolfo SAN FELATO (see above) except that he has never been an American
   citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is dedicated, courageous and
   most anxious to maintain contact with the agency. It will be our loss
   if this is not done.

6. Ferpert L. Barker. AMCLATTER-1. Wife: Clara. Barker is a
   Cuban-American. Ex-Captain in the U.S.A.F. See PKG and 201 for fail
   bio data. I recruited barker in 1959, and he served faithfully until
   we had to exfiltrate him sometime in 1960. He recruited a number of
   valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTER-5, which see) and
   had an amazing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con-
   tacts in all walks of life. He was a boxing manager and knew intimately
   all Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-
   dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness
   was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if
   not technically) that he would fight at the drop of a hat if anyone cast
   espersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of
   Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. We are in the
   process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the
   Station reopens I would certainly recommend that we continue to maintain
   contact with Barker. If nothing else he would make a wonderful leg-man
   for the Chief of Station. His wife is an attractive Cuban gal who is bi-
   lingual and as belligerently "American" as he is. Barker, by looks and
   by language, could pass either as an American or a Cuban - a genuine
   asset if he could be taught to submerge his Americanism.

7. Manolo VEGA Abril I met Manolo through Jorge ALONSO Piloto
   (now a prisoner in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion).
   Manolo is working for us now in Miami, and I presume we have full bio
   data on him. Manolo's family owned, along with Republic Steel, the big
   steel plant in Havana which was nationalized by the Castro regime (Cia.
   Antillana de Acero, S.A.). Manolo has a brother, hestemor who would
   also be worth cultivating. Through his business and family connections
   Manolo knew a great many people of operational interest. One of his
   friends was David SALVADOR, although Manolo did not share SALVADOR's
   political thinking (extreme left and anti-American). Manolo is
   objective a reporter as I have ever encountered among Lat.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)