2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
-SENSITIVE

7 February 1975

IG 75-0509

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Requests-from Mr. Ober for Basic
Documentation Circa Mid-1967

1. Subsequent to his second appearance before the Rockefeller
   Commission on 3 February 1975, Mr. Ober returned to Headquarters
   the afternoon of 6 February and the morning of 7 February to
   continue his review of the files he had developed while Chief, CI/SO.
   At the request of the Commission, he was particularly interested
   in locating documentation which supported the creation of the Special
   Counterintelligence Operation.

2. He had previously taken note of the 15 August 1967
   memorandum from the DDP to C/CI but was interested in determining
   whether there was any other documentation that could be used. In
   this context I showed him the following list of documents which I
   had unearthed in various and sundry places:

TAB A 4 August 1967 memorandum from Mr. Fred Vinson, Jr.,
Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division,
Department of Justice to the Director of Central.
Intelligence

ТАВ В The Director's response to TAB A

ТАВ С DIRECTOR 25628, 4 August 1967 -- book message originated
in WH Division in response to TAB A

TAB D WH/COG 67-259, 10 August 1967 -- Memorandum from
Mr. Broe, C/WH Division, to Mr. Houston, General
Counsel, detailing actions taken to respond to the 4 August
letter of Mr. Vinson (TAB A)

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 014848

SENSITIVE
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
SENSITIVE

TAB E Relay of DIRECTOR 25628, 9 August 1967, to Brussels

TAB F DIRECTOR 26741, 10 August 1967, sending essentially
the same message as DIRECTOR 25628 to additional
European stations, specifically Copenhagen, Helsinki, Oslo,
Stockholm

TAB G DIRECTOR 27069, 11 August 1967, to Copenhagen,
Helsinki, Oslo, Stockholm, asking for cabled replies to
DIRECTOR 26741 (TAB F)

TAB Η DIRECTOR 32283, 31 August 1967, bearing on
DIRECTOR 26741 (TAB F)

TAB I 21 September 1967 memorandum from J. Walter Yeagley,
Assistant Attorney General, Internal Security Division,
Department of Justice, to Mr. Lawrence Houston, General
Counsel, CIA

TAB J 22 September 1967 memorandum from the General Counsel-
to the Director of Current Intelligence, Subject "Stokely
Carmichael"

TAB K 28 September 1967 memorandum from J. Walter Yeagley
to Mr. Lawrence Houston

TAB L 28 September 1967 memorandum from J. Walter Yeagley
to Mr. Houston

TAB M 3 October 1967 memorandum from Mr. Houston to
Mr. Yeagley

TABs I through M were located in a file held by the Office of General
Counsel entitled "Stokely Carmichael". The original letter to
Mr. Helms (TAB A) and his reply (TAB B) were located in a file held
by C/WH Division, as was a copy of the memorandum from Mr. Broe
to Mr. Houston (TAB D). The cables (TABs C, E, F, G and H) were
located in DDO/OPS/ITG RYBAT MHALPHA/MHPASHA chronos.

2

SENSITIVE
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
SENSITIVE

3. In the OGC file (Subject: Stokely Carmichael), there is a series of memoranda from the DDI to Mr. Houston which is obviously in reply to the Department of Justice requests for information on Stokely Carmichael and his travels to Europe and Africa in the fall of 1967. Mr. Houston obviously served as the point of relay for these memoranda to the Department of Justice.

4. Mr. Ober's second request was to try to locate documentation from either the President or the White House to the Director in mid-to-late October 1967 wherein the President asked the Director to prepare a study on "International Connections with the United States Peace Movement".

5. A 31 October 1967 memorandum for the record prepared by Mr. Ober details a meeting held by C/CI Staff wherein C/CI states that the President has directed such a study be made and indicates that the CI Staff will be the DDP unit responsible for providing DDP information to the DDI which will be charged with writing the study.

6. A 1 November 1967 memorandum for the record written by Mr. Ober details the first meeting between the DDI and the DDP on the subject of this study. Mr. Ober represented the DDP while Mr. Godfrey (Director of OCI), Mr. Lehman and Mr. Peter Dixon Davis represented the DDI. Mr. Davis was designated by the Director, OCI to draft the study.

7. A third memorandum for the record prepared by Mr. Ober on 1 November 1967 entitled "Progress Report" details action which he had taken at the request of Mr. Angleton to set in motion the necessary actions to collect information not only from DDP overseas stations but from other government agencies which would be necessary in order for the DDI to properly prepare this study.

8. DIRECTOR 49260, dated 2 November 1967, sent from the Assistant DDP, Mr. Cord Meyer, slugged RYBAT MHPASHA, levied the requirement on all field stations to produce information which could contribute to this study.

SENSITIVE
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
SENSITIVE

9. I was unable to locate any document from the, President or the White House in CI/SO records and finally contacted Mr. Dixon Davis in OCI. He stated that the DDI has also searched its records looking for a memorandum from the White House requesting a study but had been unable to locate one. He did, however, have a copy of two memoranda, apparently prepared as cover sheets to transmit the finished study to the President on 15 November 1967. Xerox copies of these two memoranda are attached as TABS N and O.

10. Mr. Ober was specifically desireous of taking copies of TABS N and O with him to use in his next appearance before the Rockefeller Commission. He recognized that, under the current ground rules, he had to clear this with Mr. Knoche. I arranged for Mr. Knoche to call Mr. Ober. As a result of a series of conversations between Mr. Knoche and Mr. Ober, Mr. White and Mr. Knoche and myself and Mr. Knoche, Mr. Knoche authorized Mr. Ober to take copies of TABS N and O as reference material. If asked, Mr. Ober could show these to the Rockefeller Commission but he was not authorized to leave these papers with the Commission. He was told to advise the Commission that, if they wanted copies, they would have to request same through Mr. Knoche.

11. At the request of Mr. Knoche, I am making available a copy of this memorandum to the Inspector General, specifically. TABS N and O which Mr. Knoche felt had not previously been made available to that office.

![Signature of Robert D. Brown, Jr.]
Robert D. Brown, Jr.
Deputy Chief, East Asia Division

Attachments

Distribution:

1 - IG, w/atts

1 - Mr. Knoche, w/atts

1 - DC/OPS, w/atts

1 - ADDO, w/atts

1- DCEA, w/atts

4

SENSITIVE
SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)