# 104-10186-10235 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Kaplonae laws. Title 18 U.S.C Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person la prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. CSC1-316/01228-64

SUBJECT Fernando FUENTES Coba

DATE DISTR. 2 October 1964

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF 1964
INFO.

PLACE & Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQOctober 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquartors Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

it is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

Fernando FUENTES Coba was a lieutenant in the Cuban Police Force and worked in the Confidential Department under Commander Efigenio ALMEJEIRAS,, Chief of Police. Although source cannot verify it, he heard that FUENTES was discharged from the police force because of problems relating to drugs. The last source heard of FUENTES, ne was working in a printing establishment in Halifax, Canada. Source described FUENTES as being about five feet eight inches tall and 160 pounds. 1,2,3,4,5,6,7

Headquarters Comments

1. Included with a report dated 27 November 1959, was a complete list of the personnel employed by the Departamento Tecnico de Investigaciones (Technical Department of Investi- gations - DTI) as of 6 November 1959. Included on the list, was one Sargeant Fernando FUENTES Cobas who worked in Bureau "A," the section responsible for foreign intelligence operations for the Policia Nacional Revolucionaria (National Revolutionary Police - PNR).

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

5
4
3
2
1

| STATE        | DIA      | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | XXX | OCR | FBI |
| ------------ | -------- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| REP CINCLANT | CINCSO # | I&NS | 2    |     |     |     |     |     |

(Note field distribution indicated by “#.”)

INFORMATION REPORTINFORMATION REPORT

| WH SA FOB 1 | WE/5/R | CI/LIA | 1EXCANADA 1 | LX-1693|
| WH SA MORL | WEXMADR 2 | CI/R&A | 3LE BRITISH | NO PROJECT|
| WH/SLR 1 | 5-2 | L/WASHER | CSCI-316/01228-64 |
| WH SA/CI 1 | RID/AN | |
| WH WAVE 1 | |
| TOTALS | WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2). CI 4, RID 1 |  |

WMK: CD: swk
CI/

201-265067

4/P


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM CSCI-316/01228-64

-2-

2.  An untested source gave a representative of this Agency a copy of a list of regulations issued on 15 May 1960 by the National Revolutionary Police, which came under the Ministry of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Cuba, for the discipline of members of the Servicio Secreto Revolucionario (Cuban Revolutionary Secret Service - SSR). This document was signed by Fernando FUENTE Coba, Chief of the Confidential Section of the General Command of the National Revolutionary Police.

3.  In a report dated 19 May 1962, an untested source, who was a guide and interpreter for the ICAP, a Cuban government agency which handled the needs of foreign visitors to Cuba, said that First Lieutenant Fernando COBAS was chief of the DTI until sometime in 1960 when he started working for the Tourist Police, a part of the PNR. In January or February 1961, COBAS transferred to the Transit Police.

4.  In a report dated 20 September 1962, an untested source reported that Fernando FUENTES Covas was with the Policia Transita (Transit Police) in the DTI.

5.  Another office of this Agency, in a report dated 26 December 1962, reported that Fernando FUENTES Coba, a Cuban national, had been convicted in 1957 of violation of the United States immigration laws. FUENTES was engaged in forging birth certificates to assist Cuban nationals to enter the United States as Puerto Ricans. FUENTES moved to Miami, where he became an ardent Castrista. In July 1959, he served as a provocateur in luring an American flyer, Rafael del PINO, to Cuba, ostensibly to smuggle someone out of Cuba. Because of his success in luring del PINO back to Cuba, where he was badly wanted by the Castro regime, FUENTES received an important position in the Confidential Bureau of the Cuban G-2, and for a time served as chief of the Bureau.

6.  On 29 January 1963, a source whose reliability cannot be determined, reported that he had seen Fernando FUENTES Coba, described as a Castro agent, debark from the SS Shirley Lykes on 25 January 1963, at Port Everglades. 24

7.  An official liaison service reported on 25 February 1963, that Fernando FUENTES Coba was born on 21 June 1928, in Habana, Cuba. FUENTES was a former permanent resident of the United States from 1946 to 1949, and served in the United States Army. At the time of this report FUENTES was described as a photographer with the Tourist Commission in Habana. Source, in a report dated October 1963, reported that FUENTES was settled in Halifax, Canada, and had obtained temporary employment.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)