# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-1338055

SECRET

PAGE: 1

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: CIC/LA INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGLA, CIDORECORD, LA/COG,
LA/COGEO, LA/COGIO, LA/SAGSC, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA, DC/LA (3/P)

95 1338055 ASR PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 401709
TOT: 120253Z AUG 95

SECRET

STAFF 120253Z DIRECTOR 401709

TO: SAO PAULO INFO BRASILIA, HAVANA.

FROM: LIMIT CIC/LA INFO LA/COG, LA/COGEO, LA/COGIO LA/SAGSC,
CIC/CEGLAAF

SLUGS: WNINTEL REAM

SUBJECT: RIO MEETING OF CUBAN CI OFFICERS AND ALLEGED CIA
OFFICERS

REF: A. SAO PAULO 61631 95 1298402
B. SAO PAULO 61496 95 1181973

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: SEE BELOW. PLEASE FORWARD ANY
   ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON SEMINAR OR ATTENDEES.

2. ADDITIONAL DETAILS PROVIDED REF A WERE MUCH
   APPRECIATED. CHECKS OF AGENCY INDICES DID NOT TURN UP A JOHN
   NEWMAN AS A CURRENT STAFFER. HAVING ONLY JOHN NEWMAN'S NAME, AS
   PROVIDED BY THE NEWSPAPER ARTICLE, WAS INSUFFICIENT TO RUN A
   MEANINGFUL CHECK OF OTHER INDICES AND PERSONNEL RECORDS.

3. FABIAN ((ESCALANTE)) FONT (201-969899) LAST SURFACED
   PUBLICALLY AT-THE JANUARY 91 (ANTIGUA) AND JANUARY 92 (HAVANA)

CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS CONFERENCES. AN NC/WASHINGTON ASSET WHO
ATTENDED THE 91 CONFERENCE AND SPOKE WITH ESCALANTE WAS TOLD BY
HIM THAT HE (ESCALANTE) BELIEVED THAT 'SOME ELEMENTS OF THE CIA
OPERATIONAL ARM' IN COMBINATION WITH THE MAFIA WERE RESPONSIBLE
*FOR THE<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY.> ESCALANTE MADE IT
CLEAR THAT HE DID NOT BELIEVE THE CIA ACTED ON ITS OWN.
ESCALANTE'S CURRENT POSITION IS UNCLEAR. HE ATTENDED THE
CONFERENCE AS A PCC-CC MEMBER. A DEFECTOR NOTED HIM AS A FORMER
CHIEF OF MININT'S POLITICAL SECTION WHO WAS BRIEFLY CHIEF OF THE
DCI FOLLOWING ABRANTES' DISMISSAL AND WHO IS NOW WRITING MININT
UNIT HISTORIES. ESCALANTE ALSO TOLD THE ASSET THAT HE WAS HEAD
OF THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE SECTOR/CHIEF OF COUNTERESPIONAGE FOR
THE US AT THE TIME OF THE MISSILE CRISIS, AND THAT HE WAS
RESPONSIBLE FOR INTERROGATING ALL SUSPECT CIA AGENTS DURING THE
1960'S

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-1338055 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 2

4 ANY INFORMATION BASE CAN ΟΒΤΑΙΝ ON THE SEMINAR AGENDA AND ATTENDEES AND WHAT PROMPTED THE HOLDING OF THE SEMINAR BY JOSE LISBOA DA ((GAMA MALCHER)) WOULD BE OF INTEREST IN EVALUATING THE CUBAN HAND AND INTENT. WE ARE PARTICULARLY -INTERESTED IN LEARNING WHETHER AGEE OR ANY OF HIS ILK PLAN TO ATTEND AND THE MEANING OF SROULEVICH'S STATEMENT REGARDING CUBAN CI OFFICERS' 'PARALLEL CONTACTS' WITH CIA OFFICIALS EXPECTED TO BE IN ATTENDANCE.

5. FILE: 010-009-013, 201-969899. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-

82.>
ORIG: CIC/LA (MAHNCKE, 34428); AUTH: CIC/LA; COORD: LA/COG, LA/COGEO, LA/SAGSC, CIC/CEG/LAAF (BREWER); INFO: LA/COGIO; REL: C/LA/SAGSC. CL BY 187203.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)