# SECURITY INDOCTRINATION AND SECRECY AGREEMENT
BYEMAN CONTROL SYSTEM, BYECOM APPROVAL

A special system of security and control, known as the BYEMAN Security and Control System, has been established by the Director of Central Intelligence for the purpose of providing maximum security protection to a number of extremely sensitive intelligence collection projects. Each of these projects requires a separate, special security approval for access. In your official capacity in connection with U. S. Government communication systems you have been granted a BYECOM approval which permits you to perform your official duties as regards BYEMAN projects in general, without regard to the necessary separate special security approvals. Strict adherence to the BYEMAN Control Manual and all supplemental directives must be adhered to in the handling of BYEMAN materials or information. You are requested to read and sign the Secrecy Agreement and Oath.

1. In connection with my indoctrination into the BYEMAN Control System, I acknowledge my full understanding of an agreement with the following provisions:

a. Security restrictions and penalties for violations of the BYEMAN Control System, to which I am subject, are covered under Title 18, Sections 792, 793, 794, 795 and 797, U. S. Code and Section 19 of Public Law 831, Internal Security Act of 1950.

b. It is my responsibility to ascertain that persons with whom I may have reason to discuss materials or sources of BYEMAN activities to any degree have also been properly cleared and designated to receive and discuss BYEMAN information.

c. By reason of my BYEMAN clearance alone I do not have access to all BYEMAN, information or materials but only those required on a "MUST KNOW" basis.

d. I will report to the BYEMAN Security Officer immediately any violations of BYEMAN regulations of which I become aware.

e. I will advise the BYEMAN Security Officer of any personal changes in my status or assignment.

f. No change in my assignment will relieve me of my obligation under oath and that the provisions of this oath remain binding at all times.

2. I do solemnly swear or affirm that I will never divulge, publish, or reveal either by word, conduct, or by any other means any classified information, intelligence, or knowledge relative to BYEMAN sources except in the performance of my official duties and in accordance with the requirements set forth in the BYEMAN Control System Manual or supplemental directives.

WITNESS: SIGNED: Ernest m. Keeff
DATE : 19 June 1963

Ernest M. Kropff

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)