2.  2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG: JLong;PG;JH;jah
UNIT: CI/So
EXT:: 9015
DATE: 6 FEB 73

RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy of

SECRET

TO ALGIERS (EYES ONLY BURCHENAL) CITE HEADQUARTERS 3475

-MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS
REFS: A. (ALGIERS)1362 16 Jan 13
B. HQS-2823 15 Jan 13

1. FYI AND BACKGROUND ONLY:

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

A. GEORGE LORENZO MATTHEWS ALSO KNOWN AS
GEORGE RICE WAS ARRESTED LATE DEC 72 BY TANZANIAN
AUTHORITIES WHO HAD MISTAKEN HIM FOR HIJACKER GEORGE EDWARD
WRIGHT. WHEN AUTHORITIES DETERMINED HE NOT HIJACKER,
MATTHEWS WAS RELEASED. (ANOTHER SOURCE REPORTS WRIGHT
ACTUALLY WAS IN DAR ES SALAAM AT TIME OF MATTHEWS ARREST.)

B. PER RECENT (INBREED) REPORT, BPP MEMBERS FELIX
LINDSAY O'NEAL AND WILLIAM HOLDER RECENTLY VISITED
GENEVA (DATES NOT GIVEN). BELIEVE VISIT WAS PRIOR TO 15
NOV 72, PROVIDING THAT THEY TRAVELED UNDER TRUE NAME
DOCUMENTATION, AS (INBREED) REPORTEDLY HAD INSTITUTED TRAVEL
CONTROL MEASURES FOR O'NEAL AND HOLDER ON THAT DATE.
(CHECKING AND WILL ADVISE).

COORDINATING OFFICERS E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 012682

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

DUP OF 7117


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000
1. RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGES MUST BE DELIVERED DIRECTLY TO SPECIAL SIGNAL CENTER.
2. DO NOT EXCEED 69 'TYPEWRITTEN CHESTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES.

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT::
DATE:

# RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

Copy ________ of ________

2

(CLASSIFICATION) (DATE AND TIME FILED)

SECRET

TO PAGE TWO

CITE HEADQUARTERS 3475

C. PER LNERGO CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE REPORT DATED 13 DEC 72, JAMES JOSEPH PATTERSON WAS IN FRANCE IN COMPANY OF ONE NATHAN BURNS ALSO KNOWN AS "SAKU". PER LNERGO BURNS IS MOST PROBABLY IDENTICAL NATHANIEL JEROME BURNS

D. PER SENSITIVE BKHERALD ASSET, AS OF 31 JAN 73 PETE O'NEAL AND WIFE WERE LIVING IN DAR WITH TWO OTHER UNIDENTIFIED BPP MEMBERS. CONJECTURE THESE TWO MAY BE BURNS AND LARRY NEIL MACK WHO LEFT WITH O'NEAL 23 SEPT 72, BUT HAVE NO POSITIVE IDENTIFICATION.

E. COMMENT:: SOME OF ABOVE MAY POSSIBLY BE RESULT OF ALLEGED EFFORTS O'NEAL TO SPREAD CONFUSION, PER PARA 1 REF B, ALTHOUGH WE HAVE NO PRESENT INDICATIONS CONFIRMING THIS SUSPICION.

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET E-2, IMPDET CL BY:

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

FORM 3205 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS (20-44)
10-72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

2. DO NOT EXCEED 69 TYPEWRITTEN CHA, CTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES.

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT::
DATE:

# RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy of __________

# SECRET

3

(CLASSIFICATION) (DATE AND TIME FILED)

# SECRET

TO PAGE THREE CITE HEADQUARTERS 3475

2. WOULD APPRECIATE STATION CONFIRMATION THAT

WRIGHT AND HOLDER HAVE TRAVELED OUTSIDE ALGIERS AND

ANY OTHER COMMENTS/OBSERVATIONS RE ABOVE ALLEGED TRAVELS,

ETC. E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.

END OF MESSAGE

C/AF/1

DC/CI/SO Jason Horn

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 012682

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

# SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
E-2, IMPDET CL. BY:

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

ORM
10-72 3205 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

(20-44)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)