# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

16 Oct 63 22

SIG CEN

INFO PRIORITY MEXI

CITE DIR 76166

REF: MEXI 6550 (IN 40823)* (NOT SENT RIO)

LCHARVEST KAPOK

1. FOR FIO: SOME MEMBERS OF CHICOM DELEGATION TO THE SEVENTH CONGRESS

OF INTERNATIONAL UNION OF ARCHITECTS (UIA) HELD HAVANA 29 SEPT - 3 OCT AFTERWARDS
WENT MEXI TO ATTEND UIA GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON
ARCHITECTURE. MEXI GROUP NOW SCHEDULED LEAVE MEXI 0100 HOURS 19 OCT FOR RIO.
FOLLOWING BIO DATA ON THREE MEMBERS OF GROUP KNOWN TO BE MEXI:

A. YANG TING-PAO 2799 1694 1405, 201-735346; B. 20 AUG 1901, HONAN;
U.S. EDUCATED; MBR NPC; MBR ACADEMIA SINICA; VP, UIA.

B. LIANG SZU-CHENG 2733 1835 2052, 201-736781; B. 1901, TOKYO; U.S.
EDUCATED; MBR CCP; DEPUTY NPC AND CPPCC; VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY.

C. WU CHING-HSIANG 0702 2529 4382, 201-736317; B. CIRCA 1919, MANCHURIA;
FRENCH EDUCATED; CHAIRMAN ARCHITECTURE DEPT TUNG CHI UNIV, SHANGHAI:

2. DURING STAY GROUP MEXI UNILATERAL APPROACHES MADE TO YANG TING-PAO
   AND LIANG SZU-CHENG FOR PURPOSES OF ASSESSMENT AND POSSIBLE DEBRIEFING,
   DEFECTION OR RECRUITMENT IN PLACE. FOLLOWING CONTACTS WITH YANG BY FORMER
   PARTNER IN ARCHITECTURAL FIRM CHINA AND BY MBR U.S. FIRM YANG PREVIOUSLY
   ASSOCIATED WITH, YANG ACCEPTED INTERVIEW WITH KUBARK STAFFER WHO USED COVER:
   CONTINUED

![coordinate officers]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

☐ INDEX
☐ NO INDEX
☐ FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

PAGE TWO

TO

INFO

CITE DIR 76166

RESEARCH SCHOLAR CHINA. CONVERSATION FRIENDLY AND INCLUDED DISCUSSION MAINLAND SITUATION. LIANG APPROACHED BY KUBARK CONTROLLED U.S. SINOLOGIST WHO WAS STUDENT LIANG AT YALE 1947. CONTACT WITH LIANG KNOWN TO OTHER CHICOMS IN DELEGATION, ALTHO LIANG LEFT ALONE WITH OUR MAN FOR HALF HOUR. LIANG ATTITUDE FRIENDLY BUT SEEMED TO FOLLOW PREARRANGED LINE AND LIANG PROFESSED COMPLETE BELIEF CHINESE COMMUNISM. LIANG CLAIMED CONTACT BETWEEN CHINESE AND AMERICAN "FRIENDS" CONSIDERED HIGHLY DESIRABLE BY CHINESE. CONTACTS WITH BOTH LIANG AND YANG LIMITED TO FRIENDLY DISCUSSIONS SINCE OPERATIONAL DISCUSSION DID NOT SEEM APPROPRIATE IN EITHER CASE.

3. WU'S BROTHER, U.S, CITIZEN, ARRIVING MEXICO 16 OCTOBER TO TALK WITH WU AND ASK HIM IF WISHES REMAIN IN FREE WORLD.

4. REQUEST RIOD MONITOR ACTIVITIES GROUP BRAZIL AS FEASIBLE AND ATTEMPT DEVELOP FURTHER BIO AND ASSESSMENT DATA IF NATURAL ACCESS TO GROUP CAN BE FOUND. DO NOT RECOMMEND FORCED APPROACH TO ANY OF GROUP, SINCE OUR COVER FOR THIS ACTIVITY WEARING THIN AND THERE IS LONG RANGE GOAL OF FUTURE FOLLOW UP THESE CONTACTS WHEN APPROPRIATE ACCESS CAN BE ARRANGED.

CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

C: FRANK/MICKUM: bj1

SECRET

INDEX

NO INDEX

O FILE IN OS FILE NO

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

PAGE THREE

TO INFO CITE DIR 76166

5. FOR MEX I: PLS IDENTIFY OTHER MBRS OF MEXI GROUP ENROUTE RIOD AND
   FORWARD TO RIOD ANY ADDITIONAL INFO ON PURPOSE TRIP TO RIOD. ALSO INFORM RIOD
   OF RESULTS WU MEETING WITH BROTHER.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of releasing officer]

RELEASING OFFICER

A/DCFE(C)  ![Check mark]

WH/3 ![signature]

WH/5 ![signature]

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

![GROUP excluded from automatic downgrading and declass-Sestion]

![signature of authenticating officer]

WILLIAM E. COLET

/FE

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)