# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![image]

## DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

INFO: ![image]

FROM: Chief of Station, JM/AVE/1 COPY

SUBJECT: Operational/CYPOCE/AIRE/ANT/LEN/AMFOX
WT Operator Candidate Inside Target Area.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: Request for Headquarters Review of Files - Para 5.

1. In the fall of 1960 AMIRE-1 (Peter J. DI CERVENO) recruited in Havana a WT operator candidate, whose name he cannot recall at this time. This candidate was spotted and first contacted by AMPANIC-1, who passed the lead over to AMIRE-1. AMPANIC-1 first contacted the candidate on the porch of the old Mercedes Benz Agency at Falcon and Principe Streets, and AMIRE-1 then contacted subject in the latter's apartment in the fourth floor of a building located in the middle of the block on the East Side of Menocal Avenue (Infanta) between (Valle) and San Jose Streets. This building had a store in the first floor, was painted a pinkish beige, and the apartments were very small (one bedroom and bath, living-dining room combination and a small kitchen). Subject was at the time working in a hardware store and living with his wife and a small child. Subject was about (33) years old (6’6”) tall (120) lbs., wore (thick glasses, light complexion, light hair, protruding facial features)

2. Subject had experience as a professional WT operator and worked a clandestine WT set for the Organizacion Autentica (OA) against the Batista regime. AMPANIC-1 was a member of the (OA) and spotted subject through a leader of the (CA) for whom Subject worked in the underground.

3. Subject was trained for a week or so by AMELEN-1 in a safehouse located at (39 San Rafael Street) which had been obtained for that purpose by APFOX-1. AMFOX-1 attended the training sessions as a look-out, but neither AMFOX-1 nor AMCLEN-1 knew the identity and address of the trainee. Training included the clandestine operation of a RS-1, the use of signal plans, the use of pads in coding and decoding, and personal security. Training was conducted in the fall of 1969 after recruitment of Subject and with the approval of CO George D. SCOPCORY, who was AMIRD-1’s CO at the time and to whom full reports were turned in on the

(Continued)

Distribution:

3 - Headquarters

![image]

Date Typed: 24 Jan. 63

Date Dispatched: 1963

Dispatch Symbol and Number: UFCA-7439

Headquarters File Number: 19-120-33-54/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET (IPA-7439

training and the identity of the candidate. Subject was never
activated and was kept on stand-by for possible use at a later
date. For that purpose bona fides were established by AMIRD-1
and reported to his CO. Subject was not supplied with a "T" set
and no signal plans nor pads were issued to him.

4. AMIR[ ]-1 recalls Subject was very secure in his clandestine
   contacts and operations. Despite established bona fides, AMIRD-1
   had considerable trouble in gaining Subject's confidence and all
   three preliminary contacts were necessary before getting down to
   business. Subject was last contacted by AMIRD-1 at Subject's
   apartment described above, in January or February 1961. At
   this time Subject was still willing and ready to work.

5. It is assumed that Headquarters files on the activities of
   AMIRD-1, AMCLIN-1 or AMFOX-1 will contain copies of the training
   reports and information reported by AMIRD-1. We would appreciate
   Headquarters assistance in ascertaining Subject's identity and
   present whereabouts in order to determine if he could still be
   used operationally inside target area. AMPANIC-1 has been
   terminated by JMWAVE FW Branch because of weakness in his personal
   security, and it is believed best not to contact him on this
   matter if possible.

END OF DISPATCH


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)