# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John Warner
Chief, International Intelligence Division
Office of Intelligence
Drug Enforcement Administration

ATTENTION: Mr. Robert Goe

SUBJECT : Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA

REFERENCES : A. SEC-IGI-76-0048(1), 06 February 1976

B. SEC-IGI-76-0062(1), 20 Februaı. 1976

C. SEC-IGI-76-0065(1), 25 February 1976

1. This Agency was requested by DEA to check the backgrounds of five Cuban exiles who have come to the attention of DEA either as potential informants or as liaison contacts. According to preliminary checks conducted by DEA, there were indications that these individuals had past records of "political and revolutionary intrigue." DEA, concerned that it may be the target of a provocation operation by another government, requested this Agency's assessment of the situation. This memorandum contains the results of a check of cur Headquarters records on these individuals, followed by a summary of our findings and conclusions. The order of this response is keyed to Reference B.

2. Mario Eloy JIMENEZ-Roio. DPOB: 03 March 1927, Lajas, Las Villas, Cuba. JIMENEZ was of interest to this Agency in 1960 but according to our records he

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED ABROAD OR OUTSIDE THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE RECEIVING AGENCY WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE ORIGINATOR

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF
Ε.Ο. 11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY: 5 (1) 2
DECLASSIFICATION DATE IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE

![American Revolution Bicentennial logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DA Page 2

was at no time used operationally. Our files contain no additional information on *JIMENEZ* since 1960 except for a 1969 FBI report dealing with his involvement in a plan to assassinate Fidel Castro. (DEA already has a copy of this report.) Although information obtained from a Report of Investigation (ROI) by Alfredo Duncan (DEA/Caracas) dated 01 December 1975 indicates that *JIMENEZ* is a U.S. citizen, resides in Caracas and has contacts with various GOV officials, we have no information in our Headquarters files to substantiate this information. In November 1975 the Caracas Regional Office (CRO) requested traces from our field representative on *JIMENEZ*, who was reportedly in contact with the CRO. The following traces were forwarded to our representative in Caracas on 03 December 1975 for passage to DEA: "Following data on *Mario Eloy JIMENEZ Rojo* taken from his own undated handwritten bio summary which apparently submitted to the anti-Castro Frente Revolucionario Democratico (FRD) in Miami about 1960, and from an FRD Personnel Form. *JIMENEZ* was born 03 March 1927 in Lajas, Las Villas, Cuba. He attended the University of Havana and majored in business administration. From 1948 until 1952 (sic) he was 'elected mayor for four years' (of Havana?) *JIMENEZ* was secretary to the President of Congress in Havana from 1941 (sic) until 1958. He came to the U.S. (Miami) as an immigrant in April 1959. *JIMENEZ* stated his purpose in coming to the U.S. was to assist in the eradication of the Cuban system. *JIMENEZ* is married to Dyalma Balasquide. At the time his bio summary was written, he stated he was a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army. (As it highly unlikely that *JIMÉNEZ* was secretary to the President of the Cuban Congress at age fourteen and only a little less unlikely that he was a mayor at age twenty-one, as the dates given by *JIMENEZ* show; suggest DEA ask the Department of Army for further information.)" We also note that a statement on his processing papers for the FRD indicated that *JIMENEZ* was a former member of the Revolutionary Insurrectional Union (UIR) in Cuba, a Cuban-style mafia which was prominent during the 1940's and 1950's and was under the patron age of anti-Batista political figures. On 12 December 1975 we received a request from the CRO that *JIMENEZ* be registered in the ISR as a DEA source. (He was formally registered on 29 December 1975.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA                                   Page 3

3. Orlando GARCIA Vasquez. DPOB: 16 June 1927, Havana, Cuba. GARCIA (at one time a naturalized U.S. citizen/18 May 1945 in South Carolina) became a Venezuelan citizen ca 1962. GARCIA has a long history as a political thug since pre-Batista days in Cuba. He was a member of the Union Insurrectional Revolucionaria (UIR) in Cuba along with Fidel Castro and other persons who were involved in political assassinations. He claims to have served with the U.S. 82nd Airborne Division from 1945-47 and to have returned to Cuba thereafter to attend the University of Havana on the GI Bill. About mid-52 Subject left Cuba for Miami because of a scandal in Cuba over a crime allegedly committed by GARCIA. In 1953 he became a bodyguard for Costa Rican President FIGUERES, who introduced him to Romulo BETANCOURT, who was then in exile in Costa Rica. It is believed that GARCIA'S fast rise in the Venezuelan government is based on his earlier service to Accion Democratica (AD) exiles in Costa Rica, where he reportedly eliminated several gunmen sent to kill BETANCOURT. When BETANCOURT became president of Verezuela (1959-64), GARCIA was appointed a division chief in the Directorate General of Police (DIGEPOL), now the Directorate for the Services of Intelligence and Prevention (DISIP). GARCIA left Venezuela for Miami in 1964 for health reasons (ulcers) and during this stay in Miami worked at the Venezuelan Consulate. He returned to Venezuela in 1966 and reportedly held positions within the Venezuelan Ministry of Interior (exact positions not known). In August 1969 GARCIA was assigned as First Secretary to the Venezuelan Embassy in Georgetown, Guyana. He returned to Venezuela sometime during 1970 or 1971 and was assigned as Special Assessor (Advisor), Ministry of Foreign Relations, where he was mainly concerned with Venezuelan national border incidents and violations. According to information dated July 1974, GARCIA was appointed to head a special foreign intelligence service within the Ministry of Interior:

In November 1973 our representative in Caracas was queried oy DEA Caracas concerning a report which was prepared on 06 September 1973 in Miami by S.A./ Michael D. Brom, which accused GARCIA of being involved in narcotics trafficking and of being a CIA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA                                         Page 4

DEA Caracas was advised that GARCIA was a former Agency asset and that we have maintained contact with him over the years. Although it is known that GARCIA has associated with known traffickers, no hard facts concerning his direct involvement in narcotics have been uncovered. GARCIA has been described over the years as a political thug, a murderer, a con-man, a pathological liar, and a "bright, aggressive rogue who is ruthless when necessary." GARCIA has apparently always sided with the men in power and seems to have gained the confidence of many leaders in the countries around the Caribbean. A DEA ROI, dated 10 October 1974, written by S.A. Brom at Miami reported that GARCIA was in the United States and was in contact with Ricardo MORALES (see paragraph 4). GARCIA made several trips to the U.S. on behalf of the GOV during 1974-75. Your Agency is referred to the FBI for information concerning GARCIA'S activities in the U.S.

4. Ricardo MORALES Navarette. DPOE: 14 June 1939, Havana, Cuba. MORALES took refuge in the Brazilian Embassy in Havana in October 1960 and entered the United States as a Cuban refugee at Miami, Florida, on 29 November 1960. He was a self-admitted former G-2 agent. Although MORALES was of interest to this Agency in 1964, he was not used operationally. Information in 1968 indicated that MORALES was a member of "Cuban Power," an anti-Castro terrorist organization, whose policy was to liquidate foreign support for the Castro regime. MORALES was arrested on 14 February 1968 in Miami and questioned regarding a recent bombing incident. On 02 October 1972 DEA/ Miami registered MORALES in the ISR as a DEA informant. According to a DEA cable from Miami R/O to Caracas R/O, dated 17 February 1976, MORALES was reported to be an active DEA informant since 25 February 1971 and to have recently left the Miami area to go to Caracas to take up an official position with a sensitive GOV agency. (This Agency has no updated information on MORALES to substantiate this information.) The Miami R/Qrated MORALES as being an extremely reliable source and suggested Caracas R/O use caution in utilizing MORALES due to his present status within the GOV. DEA ROI (dated 10 October 1974) written by S.A. Michael D. Brom at Miani reported that MORALES was


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 5

in contact with one Orlando GARCIA, who was in the
Miami area recruiting Cubans for use in a Venezuelan
Special Forces Unit. Your Agency is referred to the
FBI for information concerning the activities of
these individuals in the United States.

5. Justo LARAZO Alfonso. A check of our records
   turned up one Justo Alfonso (no DPOB), a Cuban-exile,
   who was active in anti-Castro organizations in the
   late 1960's. Your Agency is referred to the FBI for
   information on this individual.

6. Manuel De ARMAS. DPOB: 06 November 1947,
   Havana, Cuba; naturalized U.S. citizen living in Miami.
   On 17 October 1975 one Manuel De ARMAS contacted our
   overt Domestic Contact Division (DCD) office in Miami
   offering his services as a double agent. Following are
   excerpts from two DCD Reports dated 20 October 1975 and
   19 January 1976 based on debriefings of De ARMAS: While
   in Cuba De ARMAS claimed to have been the neighbor of.
   Raul BETANCOURT, the brother of the former Venezuelan
   President Romulo BETANCOURT, and his two daughters
   Antonieta and Mariela, who was De ARMAS' girl friend.
   De ARMAS' mother decided in 1962 that Subject should
   leave Cuba, which he did. In 1975, De ARMAS found out
   that his two young cousins had been placed in an orphan-
   age in Cuba. He made contact with Mariela BETANCOURT,
   telling her that he was fed up with the U.S. system of
   government in order to gain her attention on the matter
   of taking his cousins out of Cuba. Mariela asked him
   if he would be willing to work for the Cuban Government
   and he replied he would if it would help the youngsters.
   Mariela then told De ARMAS to go to Caracas and meet
   with her sister Antonieta. De ARMAS went to Caracas on
   02 October 1975 and met with Antonieta, but no proposals
   were made on the possibility of his working for the
   Cuban Government. On 17 October 1975 De ARMAS again
   called Mariela and was told that he should return to
   Venezuela to hold more talks with Antonieta and "other
   people." After talking with Mariela on 17 October 1975,
   De ARMAS called our DCD/Miami Office because as a U.S.
   citizen he claimed that he did not want to get involved
   with the Cuban Government unless he had this Agency's
   approval. De ARMAS graciously offered his services as
   a double agent. He called DCD/Miami on 20 October 1975


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 6

and again on 07 January 1976 to resubmit his offer and insisted on a response. He was told that his offer would be forwarded through the appropriate channels. (Note: Our records show that there was no CIA interest in De ARMAS, past or present.) On 13 January 1976 our representative in Miani was told that the FBI Miami office had been in contact with Subject and wished to verify De ARMAS' clain that he was in contact with our DCD Miami office. The FBI also asked whether this Agency had any objection for further FBI contact with Subject. on the "same basis they had previously." (Note: The type or length of FBI contact with De ARMAS is not known. Your office is referred to the FBI for additional information.)

On 04 February 1976 DEA Caracas received a DEA message (# 02406) which requested permission for Miami CI Manuel Leonardo De ARMAS to travel to Caracas for a one kilo heroin, buy from a Colombian whom De ARMAS had previously met through a Maria A. BETANCOURT. Permission was given and De ARMAS arrived in Caracas on 11 February 1976. No mention of drugs was made on this trip but according to De ARMAS he was taken to the Cuban Embassy in Caracas on 12 February 1976, where he was allgedly approached to work for the Cuban Government in an intelligence capacity. De ARMAS reported these events to DEA Caracas on 12 February 1976; he was advised to return to the U.S. Our representative in Caracas was briefed on the De ARMAS case by SAIC Duncan on 13 February 1976. Caracas Station was very interested in having De ARMAS return to Caracas for use as a possible source on Cuban intelligence activities, and) steps were taken to request that DEA turn De ARMAS Lover to this Agency A background check was conducted on De ARMAS at that time and on 20 February 1976 the FBI representative in Miami reported the following information: "The FBI has been avoiding contact with De ARMAS for the past couple of months since he was assessed as a 'mentally unbalanced fabricator'. De ARMAS gave a press interview in Miami in early February 1976 in which he clained an affiliation with virtually every U.S. intelligence agency. He said that he had worked for CIA and had attended a CIA training school. The press interview has thus far not been published, presumably because it is too far fetched. De ARMAS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA                                                     Page 7

received a bank loan of $1,500 in Miami and has defaulted
on some $800 of the amount. The final note on De ARMAS
is that he received a general discharge from the U.S.
Army with a notation that he had psychological and
behavioral problems." The gist of the aforementioned
FBI information has been passed to DEA Caracas. All
agencies concerned agree that contact with De ARMAS
should cease. De ARMAS again contacted S.A. Duncan in
Caracas on 26 February 1976 and requested a meeting; he
said that the request was not drug related, but con-
cerned the "Cuban matter." S.A. Duncan advised De ARMAS
that he was on his own and that DEA would not get in-
volved. As DEA Headquarters is aware, De ARMAS re-
portedly left for Mexico o/a 26 February 1976. We have
no subsequent reporting on his movements.

7. Three of the five aforementioned individuals
   are known to have had past connections: GARCIA Vazquez
   and JIMENEZ-Rojo were both former members of the UIR
   in Cuba at one time and MORALES Navarette, a former
   Cuban G-2 agent, was in contact with GARCIA in the
   United States during 1974-75. Although there have been
   allegations aimed at MORALES and GARCIA over the years
   accusing them of being Cuban agents and/or of narcotics
   involvement, these claims have not been substantiated
   and for the most part are based on circumstantial
   evidence or guilt by association, which happens
   frequently among Cubans. As MORALES has been a DEA
   informant since 1971 and, in fact, was rated as an
   "extermely reliable" source by the Miami R/O; a desire
   on his part to continue this relationship in Caracas,
   we feel, cannot be construed as part of a provocation
   operation. A check of our records reflected no past
   intelligence backgrounds for LAZARO Alfonso and De
   ARMAS, While there is a paucity of background infor-
   mation in our files on Justo LAZARO, in our opinion he
   is attempting to extort money from the U.S. Government
   based on a poorly conceived idea of his own. The De
   ARMAS case appears to have been resolved satisfactorily
   for all concerned. All Agencies concerned agree he is
   unstable and contact should be either severed, or if
   unavoidable, it should be made with extreme caution.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA Page 8

8. Following a review of all information on the foregoing Subjects available at DEA Headquarters and at this Agency's lleadquarters, we are of the opinion that there is no data or other evidence to suggest an outside organization is attempting to manipulate these Individuals in an operation aimed at discrediting the U.S. Government and DEA. We believe there may be collusion among the three Subjects located in Caracas, probably to assist one another in nefarious schemes to one degree or another; however, the information on hand does not suggest their motivation would go beyond personal, financial or influence objectives. While one cannot absolutely rule out the possibility, for example, that the Cuban Service has run one or more of the aforementioned Subjects at DEA for the purpose of harrassing the U.S. Government, there is no conclusive information in our files to connect them with Cuban intelligence or a Venezuelan entity whose interests are inimical to the U.S.

![signature of John P. Kennedy]

John P. Kennedy
Special Assistant for Coordination of
Foreign Narcotics Information

DONC-00038/76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SUBJECT: Cuban Exiles Involved with DEA                                            Page 9

DDO/OPS/NARCOG/NLDavis/ms

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - NARCOG CHRONO
1 - IP/AN*

*File in 201-0067860
X 201-0285923
X 201-0286570
Index: Justo LAZARO Alfonso, aka Justo Alfonso
Index: Manuel Leonardo De ARMAS

Coordination:

(in draft) 17 March 1976
LA/COC

(in draft) 17 March 1976
LA/NW/V


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)