# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
3010-104
UNITED STATES GOVI MENT

Memorandum

TO : Files

DATE: 29 January 1064

FROM : M. D. Stevens

SUBJECT: THE LEE HARVEY OSWALD CASE #351164

1.  According to a newspaper column of "Allen and Scott" in the Chicago American of 6 December 1.963, on the OSWALD Case, Abram CHAYER, Legal Officer of the State Department, was one of two persons immediately responsible for OSWALD's being permitted to return to the United States from the Soviet Union in June 1962. The other individuel named was Llewellyn THOMPSON, the then Ambassador to Russia. Another said to have been involved in the handling of OSWALD's case was Samuel WISE, Counsel of the American Embassy in Moscow.

2.  Abram CHAYES, #352234, who as of 16 February 1961 was described as "the new Counsel in State", was granted Security approval for liaison contact with J. Foster COLLINS (in the office of the Chief of the Covert Action Staff) on 6 March 1951. The request for CHAYES' clearance was a "Blanket" request to permit discussion with him of NSC 5412/2 matters on a need-to-know-basis.

3.  In September 1961 there was a White House namecheck request on CHAYES' wife Antonia (Toni) Leigh CHAYES, nee: HANDLER.

4.  In March 1962, CHAYES was granted a renewal of his liaison contact clearance with C/CA on a continuing basis. This time his contact was Archibald ROOSEVELT, Jr.

5.  On 10 February 1962, HUMAN EVENTS reported as follows with reference to CHAYES:

"SOFT ON COMMUNISM: Representative Francis E. Walter (R.-Pa.), Chairman of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, has scored the new State Department regulations on passports, claiming they would allow Reds denied passports to "rifle freely the confidential files of the FBI, the CIA and other investigative agencies." The man behind the new regulations, which Walter claims violate the Internal Security Act of 1950, is reportedly State's chief legal officer, Abram Chayes. Chayes, a Kennedy appointee, is an ex-Harvard professor wino was Chester Bowles' top legal adviser when Bowles was Governor of Connecticut. Walter has introduced legislation to remedy the new passport regulations."

Document Number

for FOIA Review on FEB 1977


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

6. Samuel WISE, "Counsel in the American Embassy in Moscow" who
   is referred to above, may well be Samuel Griffin WISE Jr., #74574,
   SD & SSD, who apparently was once a contract employée on AEACTIVE.
   The State Department reviewed WISE's file on 2 June 1954; and as of
   September 1962 a Samuel G. WISE was Second Secretary of the American
   Embassy in Moscow. At that time WISE advised in a cable to the State
   Department

DAVIS' case is very similar to that of
OSWALD; and he, like OSWALD, lived in the Soviet Union for two years
after his defection and prior to making application for return to the
United States.[^7]

7. WISE was an applicant for CIA employment in early 1953 and
   was security approved subject to polygraph on 11 August 1953. He did
   not enter on duty and in September 1953 the office which had been
   interested in him was "no longer interested". On 13 November 1953,
   WISE was granted a CSA to permit his use as a contract employee on
   AEACTIVE in New York City. His CSA was cancelled on 24 March 1958.

8. WISE was named as a friend of William Orville MUNSELL, #61693-DL,
   during an investigation of the latter for possible CIA employment in 1952.
   WISE, according to MUNSELL's landlady and social acquaintance in Weshington,
   D.C. during the period of about a year which ended in April 1952, was the
   only person she knew by name with whom MUNSELL was friendly. According
   to the informant, WISE was a student at Columbia University whose address
   was 423 Furnald Hall. MUNSELL was Security disapproved for CIA employment
   in June 1952 because of his close association on a professional and social
   basis, while attending Denver University from 1946 to 1951, with person's
   of questionable loyality. In November 1954, MUNSELL was of interest to
   project FJALIVE with reference to assignment to Dhahran, Saudi Arabia;
   however, the interested office withdrew their request on him, after
   Security advised of the derogatory information regarding him.

9. WISE from 1951 to 1954 attended Scarsdale High School in Scarsdale,
   New York, which was attacked by a Citizen's Group, which alleged Communist
   influence in the school system. He had several questionable associates in
   addition to MUNSELL.

M. D. Stevens


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)