# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

employment as a Type A part time employee. In August 1958 Subject advised that she was divorcing her husband and wished to be reinstated as a regular staff employee. Her reinstatement was approved and in November 1959 she was transferred back to Washington, D.C., PCS. During her employment in Panama she was under DAC cover. Back in Washington she was assigned to DDP/WH, Support Staff, Logistics Section.

6. In April 1960 Subject legally resumed her maiden name.

7. In May 1960 Subject was certified to the State Department in connection with ninety day proposed TDY in Havana, Cuba with JMARC; and in October 1960 she was transferred from Havana to Guatemala.

8. In November 1960 Security was advised that according to information from "the Project" (presumably JMARC) Subject had, while in Cuba, allegedly been having affairs "with the three people" who were "incarcerated in the Cuban jail". This allegation very possibly was exaggerated and from information in the file may have been untrue. However, a Security officer on the Project seemed definitely under the impression that she had been having an affair with one of them, i.e.: (Dave CHRIST) and was of the opinion that her "immoral" behavior was "a probable contributing factor" to then recent arrests of Agency personnel in Cuba. According to another version, apparently hers, she went out one evening with CHRIST and on other occasions had group social contact with him and with two other TSD technicians who arrived in Havana three days before she left to go to the United States on leave. On the Saturday night prior to her departure on Sunday, she and her two roommates, she said, entertained these three men in their apartment.

9. In Guatemala, Subject met and dated a Ronald Stanley DAVIC, an American who was "wanted" by the FBI for car theft and mail fraud. According to Subject she found this out by checking "the files" and reported it to her superiors. Also according to Subject, "It was decided" that there was "no real harm" in continuing her relationship with this individual "as long as I kept on guard"; and she continued to date him until the day he suddenly disappeared from Guatemala City on 24 January 1961. She had, in fact, expected him for dinner the evening of the day he disappeared.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)