# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
MHFNO: 98-2225461 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: , , , , , ,

STAFF
CONF: EUR/NG INFO: CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGEUR, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC,
EUDORECORD, EUR/COPS, EUR/DCCI, EUR/LGL, EUR/NGUK, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD,
RYBAT, FILE, CIC/EUR (2/P)

98 2225461 ASO PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 908321
TOT: 272154Z JUL 98

SECRET
STAFF 272154Z DIRECTOR 908321
TO: IMMEDIATE LONDON.

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM EUR/NG INFO CIC/EUR, EUR/NGUK, EUR/LGL,
EUR/COPS

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: PROPOSED DECLASSIFICATION OF BSS DOCUMENT FOR RELEASE TO
*<JFK>BOARD
*
REF: NONE

TEXT:

1.  ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE PASS PARAS 3-4 MESSAGE TO BSS
    AND ADVISE WHETHER THERE ARE SERIOUS OBJECTIONS TO RELEASE OF BSS
    DOCUMENT (BEING FAXED SEPARATELY).

2.  HQS IS FAXING (OR E-MAILING, IF POSSIBLE) DOCUMENTS FOR
    STATION AND BSS REVIEW.

3.  THE DO<JFK>REVIEW TEAM ADVISED EUR/NG THAT A 1963 BRITISH
    SECURITY SERVICE DOCUMENT, WHICH HAD BEEN ATTACHED TO A CIA
    DOCUMENT, IS SCHEDULED TO BE RELEASED AT THE END OF THIS WEEK (31
    *JULY) TO THE<JFK ASSASSINATION>REVIEW BOARD. THIS DOCUMENT
    (CSCI-3/778,353) DESCRIBES A MARCH 1963 INTERVIEW BY BSS IN
    HALIFAX OF LILLIAN SLOBODA, WIFE OF VLADIMIR O. SLOBODA, WHO WAS A
    DEFECTOR TO THE USSR. THE BOARD IS INTERESTED IN DOCUMENTS IN CIA
    POSSESSION PERTAINING TO DEFECTORS TO THE SOVIET UNION AROUND THE
    *TIME OF OSWALD AND THE<JFK ASSASSINATION.> EVEN THOUGH CIA
    OBTAINED THE DOCUMENT FROM A FOREIGN FRIENDLY SERVICE, IT WOULD
    THUS BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO DENY RELEASE OF THE DOCUMENT IN
    FULL.

4.  WITHIN THAT CONTEXT, EUR/NG REVIEWED THE DOCUMENT AND
    PROPOSES REDACTION OF ALL REFERENCES TO BSS, CIA AND FBI (LEGATT
    LONDON RECEIVED A COPY OF THE INTERVIEW RESULTS IN 1963). THE
    PASSAGES WE WANT TO REDACT ARE HIGHLIGHTED ON THE FAXED COPIES
    WITH BRACKETS. WE CERTAINLY WILL FORWARD TO THE DO REVIEW TEAM
    ANY ADDITIONAL DELETIONS REQUESTED BY STATION AND/OR BSS. ABSENT
    THESE FEW PASSAGES ABOUT US/UK INTELLIGENCE, THE DOCUMENT DOES NOT
    APPEAR TO AFFECT CURRENT CIA EQUITIES; ON ITS FACE, IT ALSO DOES
    NOT APPEAR DAMAGING TO UK INTERESTS. ALTHOUGH WE ARE EXTREMELY
    CONCERNED ABOUT THE DECLASSIFICATION OF INFORMATION GIVEN TO US BY
    SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 98-2225461                                                  PAGE: 2

SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT

FOREIGN SERVICES, RELEASE OF A SANITIZED VERSION OF THIS DOCUMENT
WOULD NOT PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGE OUR LIAISON RELATIONSHIP OR
COMPROMISE SENSITIVE SOURCES/METHODS.

5. IF AT ALL POSSIBLE, WOULD APPRECIATE A RESPONSE BY HQS
   COB THURSDAY, 30 JULY, SO WE HAVE FRIDAY FOR DISCUSSIONS IF BSS
   HAS SERIOUS OBJECTIONS TO RELEASING THIS DOCUMENT IN EVEN A
   SANITIZED FORMAT.

6.. FILE: NONE. CL BY: 2051283, CL REASON: 1.5(C), DECL
ON: X1, DRV FROM: HUM 4-82.
CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>
RELNO: DORELS0101020330
ORIG: EUR/NG(XEASTLI,39474);                       REL: EUR/NG (SHAFFER).

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)