# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

S E C R E T 2321372

IN-82908

PRIORITY DIR CITE SALV 5301

DYVOUR PERUMEN AMNUG

REFS A. SALV 5296 (*NN 82314)

B. DIR 52859

1. IN ACCORDANCE REFS COS AND LANCOSCH MET JUHILL MORNING 01 23 SEPTEMBER IN COS OFFICE TO BRIEF HIM ON JUAVE 2 RECRUITMENT IMPORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. JUHILL WAS MUCH INPRESS- ED AND ACCEED ENPHATICALLY ONLY HE AND PRESIDENT WOULD KNOW RECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD MAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DURAN

LANCOSCH FORTEL OUT JUAVE 2 IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARGET BECAUSE HE HAS KNOWLEDGE OF AND ACCESS TO SCENIC PARTIES SALV AND OTHER CENT COUNTRIES, IS POPULAR UNIVERSITY AND STUDENT 08

LEADER. UAP MILITARY COMMITTEE, TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO COMMUN AT MOSCOW, PRAGUE, NEXT, CARA AND BRITISH SPIES. HAD LOV CONTACTS. WAS TRAINED AND RECRUITED BY YEARS OLD HAS BEEN/PCES MEMBER

SINCE POTENTIAL IN PARTY: BUT THAT ANY INDIS- CRETION COULD RESULT IN LOSS OF JUAVE 2 AND ALL HE COULD PRODUCE FOR YEARS TO COME.

2. LANCOSCH IS ONE OF HIS AGENTS WHO ALREADY HAS LEFT SALV

SECRET

121BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE

ARRANGED CONTACT WITH JUVAVE 2. SURILL I ACCEPTED WITHOUT QUESTION.

MADE TO DEMANDS, ORDERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTMOST

KOOOPERATIONS TO KUTARK, CCS. AND LASOSCH BELIEVE THERE HAS BEEN NO SECURITY PROBLEM TO DATE.

3. DO NOT PLAN HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT JUVAVE 1, AS JUVAVE 2 OP TOO IMPORTANT TO RISK DRAWING ATTENTION TO KUARK PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE.

JUVAVE INTERROGATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FOREGOING REASON.

JUHILL DAMES HANDLE EXACTLY AS KUPARK WISHES.

4. HAVE NOT SPECIFIED AMOUNT OF PENUMERATION TO JUVAVE 2 EXCEPT THAT IT WILL INCLUDE PAYING COST OF FURTHER STUDIES OF BROTHER IN WHATEVER COUNTRY KUTARK CONSIDERS BEST FROM VIEWPOINT OF ADEQUATE SCHOOL OR INSTITUTE AS WELL AS FROM SECURITY STANDPOINT. AFTER GRADUATION NEED ROTECTOR HAD SPECIALIZED IN CANCER RESEARCH ESPECIALLY BREAST CANCER HOW COMPLETING WORK AT IDEA AND EXPECTED RETURN EARLY OCTOBER. HAVE TOLD JUVAVE 2 BROTHER MUST HAVE SCHOOL AND OTHER RECORDS TO ESTABLISH COMPETENCE IN APPLYING FOR ADMISSION.

ASAP SUGGEST SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS OR RESEARCH

ANOTHER SHOULD APPLY AND WHERE PREFERABLY KUBARK

SECURELY CAN. FACILITATE RAPID ACCEPTANCE, TOGETHER WITH SUGGESTED MEANS PAYING ANOTHER SPEAKS ONLY SPANISH BUT HAS READING KNOWLEDGE OF FRENCH. HAVE TOLD JUVAVE 2 BROTHER MUST BELIEVE AND AID BY JUVAVE 2 AND ACCEPTANCE AT INSTITUTION.

ON GRANTING OF SCHOLARSHIP ARE STRICTLY ON OWN MERITS.

SECRET

12/BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)