# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

7-71 MFG. 10/75

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 27 PER CI 2 (EO) TOTAL COPIES 10-1 RUN BY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEC

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

STAFF

*ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT
FILE VR AT Z

1 4

2 5

3 6

ACTION #

T 693164 E1A770 PAGE Ø1 IN 830376

TOR:181831Z FEB 76 MADR 30177

SECRET 181900Z FEB 76 STAFF

*CABLE SEC SUGGESTS DISSEM TO: CILA

IF DESIRED, SEND FORM 1601 TO CABLE SE

CITE MADRID 30177

TO: DIRECTOR INFO LONDON LISBON

RYBAT PHMHHLANKET KMSTONE

1. NICKY SZULC STILL IN MADRID AS OF 17. FEB. SHE TOLD AQUCOMUMN/1 SHE HAS BEEN IN CUBA THREE TIME, LAST TIME DURING INTERNATIONAL WOMEN'S CONFERENCE. WHILE THERE SHE CLAIMED BE WORKING AS ADVISOR FOR MINREX COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE SECTION. SHE SAID CUBANS GAVE HER ACCESS TO ALL INFO THEY HAD ON CIA ACTIVITIES AROUND WORLD. SAID SHE WAS PAID SALARY AND HAD CAR AND CHAUFFEUR AT HER DISPOSAL.

2. SZULC ALSO TOLD SHE HAD WORKED VERY CLOSELY WITH AGEE ON PREPARATION HIS BOOK. SAID SHE AND WEISSMAN AND AGEE VERY ANGRY WITH JOHN MARKS FOR PUBLISHING HIS BOOK "HOW TO SPOT A SPOOK". THEY TOLD HIM THIS WOULD ONLY ALERT CIA TO CHANGE ITS TACTICS, BUT MARKS PUBLISHED BOOK ANYWAY AND THEY NOW CONSIDER HIM TRAINTOR.

3. FILE: 73-6-46/3. E2 IMPDET

SECRET SEXUSITIVE

![DI Staff Action] SECRET

19 FEB 1976

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Onty Do No Produce

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)