# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 93-3909799 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: ,2, , , , , STAFF

ADV: LA/CCGEO (14262)

ACTION: LA/CCGEO (911) INFO: AF/TNB, C/ORMS, CIC/AF, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, AF/SG, CIC/LA (3/W)

93 3909799 ASO PAGE 001 IN 3909799
TOR: 201426Z SEP 93 LUSA 77526

SECRET 201432Z SEP 93 STAFF

CITE LUSAKA 77526

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/CCGEO INFO CIC/LA, AF/SG, CIC/AF

SLUGS: WNINTEL VPJAUNTY

SUBJECT: VPJAUNTY/1 CONTINUED CONTACT WITH CUBAN CHARGE

REF: DIRECTOR 277135 93 3844003

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: COMMENTS ON RECENT EVENTS IN VPJAUNTY/1 ASSESSMENT/DEVELOPMENT OF CUBAN CHARGE CARLOS ACEVEDO.

2. AFTERNOON OF 17 SEP 93, C/O BECKNAP MET WITH VPJAUNTY/1 (J/1). J/1 SAID HE HAD HAD DINNER WITH CUBAN CHARGE CARLOS ((ACEVEDO)) AND SPOUSE AT LATTER'S HOME ON 9 SEP 93. DURING THE DINNER, J/1 SAID HE FELT HE WAS BEING TESTED BY ACEVEDO. HE SAID ACEVEDO RAISED THE QUESTION OF HIS PREVIOUS CONTACT WITH PNINFINITE EMPLOYEES. HE SAID HE MET AN EMBOFF IN LAGOS WHOM HE ASSUMED TO BE PNINFINITE. (ACEVEDO DID NOT PROVIDE J/1 WITH THE NAME OF THE INDIVIDUAL). ACEVEDO SAID THAT THIS AMCIT OFFERED TO SELL HIM A CASE OF BEER FOR ONE DOLLAR. WHEN J/1 SAID THAT THE AMERICAN WAS PROBABLY ONLY BEING FRIENDLY, ACEVEDO SAID THAT HE KNEW IT WAS BUSINESS AND NOT FRIENDSHIP WHICH WAS BEHIND THE GENEROUS OFFER. ACEVEDO THEN RAISED THE ISSUE OF A PUBLICATION WHICH LISTED PNINFINITE EMPLOYEES AROUND THE WORLD. ACEVEDO ALSO RAISED THE BAY OF PIGS AND THE *<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY,>STATING THAT HE KNEW THEM TO BE PNINFINITE OPERATIONS. ACEVEDO COMPLAINED THAT HE DID NOT UNDERSTAND WHY THE U.S WAS OBSESSED WITH CASTRO. ACEVEDO STATED THAT CUBA COULD OVERRUN THE AMERICAN BASES IN CUBA IN 5 MINUTES IF THEY WANTED TO DO SO. HE ALSO COMPLAINED ABOUT AMERICAN IMPERIALISM, ESPECIALLY ABOUT THE TRADE EMBARGO. HE BRAGGED ABOUT CUBA, PRAISING ITS DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES. ACEVEDO WAS OBVIOUSLY TOUTING THE PARTY LINE VERY CLOSELY DURING THIS SESSION. DURING THE CONVERSATION, ACEVEDO SAID THAT HE WOULD NOT VISIT ANY U.S. OFFICIAL'S HOME, ALTHOUGH HE
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

MHFNO: 93-3909799 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 2

MADE IT CLEAR THAT HE DID NOT HAVE ANY PROBLEM TALKING TO
AMERICANS, AND NAMED C/O'S DERSOOKIAN AND BECKNAP WHOM HE HAD
MET THROUGH J/1.

3. DURING THE CONVERSATION, J/1 SAID HE HEARD AN AUDIBLE
   "CLICK" WHICH HE IS SURE WAS THE SOUND OF A TAPE RECORDER
   SHUTTING OFF. J/1 SAID HE IGNORED THE SOUND, BUT BOTH HIS HOST
   AND HOSTESS WERE SHOCKED BY THE NOISE. J/1 SAID THAT ACEVEDO
   SEEMED TO BE ALL BUSINESS THAT EVENING, ASKING QUESTIONS AND
   LEADING THE CONVERSATION. WHEN J/1 PHONED HIM ON 13 SEP WITH A
   PHONE NUMBER HE HAD REQUESTED, ACEVEDO SEEMED TENSE. ON 15
   SEP, ACEVEDO CAME BY TO SEE J/1 AT HIS OFFICE, AGAIN REFERRING
   TO HIM AS HIS BROTHER. ACEVEDO WAS BACK TO HIS PREVIOUSLY
   FRIENDLY SELF AND ASKED J/1 WHAT HE WAS DOING OVER THE WEEKEND
   AND J/1 SAID HE WAS VERY BUSY. J/1'S IMPRESSION IS THAT HE WAS
   BEING TESTED AND THAT HE PASSED THE TEST. C/O SAID SHE WOULD
   CONSULT THE WASHINGTON EXPERTS AND ADVISE J/1 AT NEXT MEETING
   WHICH IS SCHEDULED FOR 1500 ON 24 SEP. WOULD APPRECIATE HOS
   COMMENTS PRIOR TO THAT MEETING.

4. DURING THE MEETING, ACEVEDO TOLD J/1 THAT HE WANTED THE
   BIBLE FOR HIMSELF SINCE HE WAS CATHOLIC. HE SAID THAT
   PREVIOUSLY, PARTY MEMBERS COULD NOT BE RELIGIOUS AND REMAIN
   PARTY MEMBERS. HOWEVER, THINGS HAD LIBERALIZED TO THE POINT
   WHERE HE COULD NOW HAVE A BIBLE. (J/1 DID ADMIT THAT HE FORGOT
   TO ASK WHY, IF THINGS WERE MORE LIBERAL NOW, ACEVEDO COULD NOT
   GET HIS OWN BIBLE FROM CUBA.)

5. J/1 SAID THAT BASED ON HIS ASSESSMENT OF ACEVEDO,
   STATION WOULD NOT GET FAR WITH HIM USING OFFICIAL AMERICANS.
   HE SAID HOWEVER, THAT A SOUTH AMERICAN BUSINESSMAN INTERESTED
   IN TRADE IN CUBA (SPECIFICALLY IMPORT/EXPORT) WOULD BE OF
   INTEREST TO ACEVEDO AS HE HAS EXPRESSED AN INTEREST IN LEAVING
   THE GOVERNMENT AND INVOLVING HIMSELF IN BUSINESS DEALINGS. J/1
   ASSESSES ACEVEDO AS BEING INTERESTED IN MONEY (HENCE THE
   INTEREST IN BUSINESS), BUT STILL RETAINING AN INTEREST IN
   POLITICS. C/O TOLD J/1 THAT STATION AND HOS STILL HAD AN
   INCOMPLETE PICTURE OF ACEVEDO'S PERSONALITY AND THAT HE SHOULD
   CONTINUE WITH HIS ASSESSMENT. C/O AGAIN TRIED THE PLOY OF
   HAVING J/1 WRITE A LETTER TO C/O DESCRIBING ACEVEDO AS IF C/O
   HAD NEVER MET HIM. J/1 SAID HE WOULD TRY TO DO THAT.

6. STATION ASSESSMENT OF THESE RECENT EVENTS IS TWOFOLD.
   IT IS LIKELY THAT ACEVEDO HAS REPORTED HIS CONTACT WITH C/O'S
   DERSOOKIAN AND BECKNAP. IT IS POSSIBLE THEN THAT A SECURITY
   OFFICIAL INSISTED THAT ACEVEDO CONFIRM HIS VERSION OF THE
   CONTACT WITH THE SOURCE OF THE CONTACT, J/1. THE EVENTS OF 9
   SEP WOULD SUPPORT THIS THEORY, ESPECIALLY THE OBVIOUS AGENDA
   AND THE SHOCK AT THE MIX-UP WITH THE TAPE RECORDER (THIS IS NOT
   A TRAINED PROFESSIONAL CONDUCTING A TEST.) ANOTHER POSSIBILITY
   IS THAT THIS WAS A TEST FOR J/1, A SORT OF VETTING EXERCISE.
   SINCE ACEVEDO CAME BACK TO J/1 AFTER A SHORT PERIOD OF TIME, IT
   WOULD APPEAR THAT J/1 PASSED THE TEST. THE QUESTION REMAINS AS
   TO WHO WAS ABLE TO REVIEW THE TAPE IN SUCH A SHORT PERIOD OF
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MHFNO: 93-3909799 SENSIND: PAGE: 3

TIME (9-15 SEP). IT IS POSSIBLE THAT SOMEONE IN LUSAKA WAS ABLE TO EVALUATE THE TAPE. OTHERWISE, THE MOST LIKELY PLACE FOR SUCH AN EVALUATION TO TAKE PLACE WOULD BE IN HARARE. STATION'S VPKINGPIN CUBAN FILE DOES NOT CONTAIN ANY INFORMATION ON TRAVEL OF CUBANS DURING THIS TIME PERIOD, MOST RECENT INFORMATION IS FROM LATE AUG 93. WILL ADVISE ANY INFORMATION ON SUCH TRAVEL WHEN KNOWN.

7. WOULD APPRECIATE HQS READOUT OF ABOVE AS WE BELIEVE THIS HAS POTENTIAL CI IMPLICATIONS FOR THIS CASE. PLEASE PROVIDE COMMENTS/SUGGESTIONS PRIOR TO HOS COB 23 SEP. REGARDS..

8. FILE: VPJAUNTY/1. INDEX: ((ACEVEDO)). DECL OADR DRV
   HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)