# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CROFILMED
MAR 3 1968
MICRO. SER.

TO : COS/Mexico City

FROM : Douglas J. FREAPANE

SUBJECT: Status Report, Project (LIOGLE/LIMIX) Cover ng Period
1 February thrt 29 February 1968

I. ACTIONS TAKEN: (1) LIMIX-1 prepared and published 5,000 copies of the monthly LIMIX political news- paper for distribution in offices of the PRI in Mexico City and to selected officials in the provinces. Copies are included as 24(Attachment to this report. This (issue) contains good photographic coverage of the national convention of the PRI; an article on page 3 which is based on previous speeches by the new President of the PRI; Alfonso MARTINEZ Dominguez; a series of interviews with political and intellectual figures regarding MARTINEZ Domínguez on page 4; an article boosting the future leader of the federal 201 workers union, Prof. Edgar ROP LEDO Santiago, on page 13; and, a "plug" for the Olympics on the back page, in addition to other serious and light features of general interest. (2) LIMIX-1 also prepared the "24, 01 monthly ideological magazine supplement (see Attachment B) which contains the inaugural speech of the new President of the PRI and the new PRI "oficial mayor", Fluvio VISTA Altamirano, and which is ingluded as an insert with the Attachment A newspaper. (3)(LI-01 MIX-1 provided the Station with information from very reliable sources on the reasons for the dismissal of Lic Francisco CALINDO Ochoa from his post in the Presidency and on what the government expects of MARTINEZ Domínguez in the PRI. (4)(IDENTITY A and LI-NO 201
08.01 MIX-1)continued a close relationship with ex-Deputy Salvador PADILLA the PRI. (5) The representative of the Municipal Government of Mexico City (in Atzcapozalco Hing Raúl GARZA Montemayor) provided

08 (the IDENTITY A group with a second office, also focated in a building owned by the Municipality. (6) The. (IDEN A group continued, now with official support, to organize athletic events, show motion pictures provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German embassy and activities related to organization of PRI youth activities in this zone of Mexico City (Atzcapozalco). (7) The (LIMIX "Ateneo 4 headed by IDENTITY B) suffered a "temporary loss" of its TV programs and 0% (IDEN B) was busy trying to find governmental contacts with suffici- ent power to force Channel 11 to return the TV time to the "Ateneo". 0 ((LIMIX-1)believes the loss was caused by the dismissal of GALINDO Ochoa from the Presidency 6 (GALINDO) had given (IDENB) un-official support in his relationship with the TV Station management.) It. is believed that "Ateneo" time can be recovered; however, (IDEN B) is also investigating the possibility of obtaining time on a commercial TV channel and a radio station. (8) (IDEN Band (LIMIX-1 continued cultivation of Lic (Esteban RUIZ Ponce who is employed o as af "secretario adjunto" to/Lic/Joaquim CISNEROS the Private Secretary of the President of Mexico. (LIMIX-1) also had several


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 14-00000

-2-

meetings with the Private Secretary of (CISNEROS (Lic/ Rafael
MINOR.) (9) (LIMIX-9 prepared, published and distributed 3,000
copies of the (Attachment C monthly IPN student publication which
included an interview with the new President of the Federación
Nacional de Estudiantes Técnicos (FNET), José CEBREROS, on page
6, several articles provided by QKFLOWAGE and the West German
embassy as well as other material of interest to IPN students.
The CEBREROS interview was an "exclusive". ) 10) (LIMIX-1) was able
to obtain one of the 2,000 "tickets" available for the national
convention of the PRI, and attended both day's meetings. (11)
(LIMIX-1) provided the Station with a report on the FNET Congress
and his participation therein. As a result, a close friend of
(LIMIX-1) (Ramiro AGUIRRE Garín) was named (Private Secretary of)
the President of the FNET, and (LIMIX-1) was named one of the
advisors of) the FNET President. (12) (LIMIX-1) continued contact
with a variety of political personalities with the objective of
being able to penetrate the (new PRI headquarters.)

## II. ACTIONS PENDING:

The major pending action is the establishment
of a penetration and/or friendships within the (PRI) once the situ-
ation in (PRI headquarters) has solidified to some degree. For ex-
ample/Lic/Juan MALDONADO) sits in a sort of "limbo" at this date,
neither out of his job, nor confirmed in a job. However, it would
appear that the LIMIX mechanism has at least five channels into
the new PRI national executive staff which are being developed
for appropriate utilization. A separate report will be prepared
on these channels into the PRI national. Other channels exist to
provide contacts within the PFI Regional headquarters for Mexico
City, but nothing can be done until current officers are retired
and the new men appointed.

## III. INDICATIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS:

As reported in paragraph I,
#3, 5, 10 and 11.

## IV. ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES:

Nothing new to report.

## V. SECURITY SITUATION:

No security problems were encountered.

## VI. AGENT MEETINGS:

Meetings between FREAPANE and (LIMIX-1) were
held on a weekly basis in a restaurant.

## VII. REMARKS:

While (student operations are no longer the priority
operations of this project, FREAPANE continues to encourage (LIMIX-1)
contact with the (IPN student politicians because of the continuing,
and even increasing political problems caused by far left student.
agitation, thus providing WOFIRM with a continuing possibility for
intelligence gathering and political action in this field.

Prepared on 9 March 1968 by: DOUGLAS J. FREAPANE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)