2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUE. MASFERAFP N/ PATAS, ROLANDO
201-42669
VOL. IX

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1 JAN 67 YHRU 31 DEC. 68

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED B7 (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 4 AVE         |               | PAT ORR                  |                                 |
| 1 B AUG 1978  |               | Pat ORR                  | PHON                            |
| 7 AUG 1978    |               | ORR                      |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COFIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FBI doc

18 aug 67 (Miami)

Subject - Rolando Arcadi

Masferrer Rojas

Bureau # 2-156


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

INDEX: YES □ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 476-7
O MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 24'
SECRET
FILE RID□ RET. TO BRANCH □
CASTROV □ STA. PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
PERSON/UNIT
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
1
2
3
4
LIMIT
TIME
BY
ACTION: Drem by 24
c/WH/6 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBES S/DO 0453 /
INFO: FILE, CS/DO VR C/WH/C-5, C/CI, C/FI-2, C/CA-2, /GPR
DDP, PadP

SECRET 342338Z CITE WAVE 4894 5 Jul 67 : 71230
PRIORITY DIRECTOR
NO NIACT
DYVOUR PBRUMEN
REFERENCE: JMWAVE 4335 (IN 71162)

*1. THRU SENSITIVE LOCAL CONTACT STATION ASCERTAINED*

THAT REF CALLES WERE MADE TO FOLLOWING:

"ALEX": J.A. KASFERRER, 43242 42ND STREET,
QUEENS, NEW YORK CITY TEL NO 565-3621.

"MONTREAL": (REV) DIEGO MADRIGAL 238 ALEXANDER
AVENUE, BRONX, NEW YORK CITY TEL NO 545-2387.

*2. NO FURTHER INFO RE POSSIBLE IDENTITY OF*

"LANG/LONG".
SECRET
BT

SECRET

MICROFILMED
NOV 2 1970
RECORDS OFFICE STAMP
The following action authorized:
Authorized: Illumination
Signed: Ruth Werner
R.O. #517 - Unit WH/7/HT

Note: If destruction, cite
reasons and coordinate 5 Jul 67
if appropriate. 201-42669

> [Figure: Hand written notes that says: To Rolando MOSFERRER (201-042609) Called Salg. 3/jan 67 & enlisted and everything relies from Key West, pit.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.

7. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
8. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST
6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED TO
11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
13. TRANSFERRED TO
FI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?

019-300-021
DRC-39309
18 DEC 68
FBI
P28
CIT CUBA
OCC ?

R 6901230755

FILE IN 201-42669

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

18 Dec 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET
(when filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFECENCE

|                                        | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                     |          |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| 01 FILE NO.                            |                         |                     |          |
| 03. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 04. DATE                |                     |          |
| 07. SOURCE CRYPTO                      | 08. DATE OF INFO.       | 09. EVALUATION      |          |
| 02. ANALYST                            | 06. DATE PROCESSED      | 10. DISSEMINATED TO | 11. DATE |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERENCE TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-047449
56X M 1/S 7

CIT CUBA
ACL 9

PEANER CUBAN SENATOR NEWSPAPER EDITOR
LEADER W/VICTORIOUS PRIVATE ARMY CUBA KNOWN
AS LOS TIGRES /THE TIGERS/

019-300-021
DBC -39554
11 DEC 68
FBI
P7

R 6901130123

FILE IN 201-012669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FORM 887 (4-65)
SECRET
11 DEC 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

FBI Cl.
30 Sep. 68 (Miami)
Re-Rolando Arcadia Masferrer
Rozás
Bureau # 2-156

FBI doc
14 aug 68 (Miami)
Re-Cuban Exile Involvement in
Haitian Revolutionary
Activities


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# TOP SECRET

ORG: GEORGE KULSTAD:eb
UNIT: WE/7/HT
EXT: 5595
DATE: 23 JULY 1968

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 22
S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING AND/OR INIT ALS - SEEN BY

COMP: WH8
FILE: RILAN, WH/COG8, a, aloes

S-E-C-R-E-T

PRIORITY JMCOBRA, SANTO DOMINGO INFO: PORT AU PRINCE

REFS: A. JMCOBRA-0363 (IN-55140)*

B. SANTO DOMINGO-5912 (IN-55244)**

C. SANTO DOMINGO-5907 (IN-54327)***

1. HQE HAS NO OBJECTION. BELIEVE LNYUMA SHOULD CONSULT WITH U.S. ATTORNEY MEADOWS FOR DETERMINATION LEGAL STATUS, SINCE LATTER BEYOND OUR PURVIEN.

2. DOES JMCOBRA FEEL THAT MASFERRER PROPOSED TRIP IN ANY WAY CONNECTED WITH REFS B AND C? SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS 1859 DATED 16 MARCH 1967 SAID THAT NEY TEJEDA SPECULATED THAT THERE IS LINK BETWEEN ABBES, ROLANDO MASFERRER AND WESSIN, POSSIBLY THROUGH SECEN, SECEN FORMERLY DOAM-4.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comments: *I&NS, through JMCOBRA, requested priority advice on whether any objections exist Hqs on proposed travel Rolando from Miami to New York by automobile.

MICROFILMED
AUG 1 1968

CS. COPY
S-E-C-R-E-T

CONTINUED....

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXTS:
DATE: JUL 25 11 2:35 AM
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: RID/ECI
CORF:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

JUL 26 2:35 PM

INDEX
DESTROY
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID

NO INDEX
FILE OR OF FILE NO.

INFO:

RID COPY
FILE
VB

S-E-C-R-E-T
PAGE TWO
CITE DIRECTOR

**Vladimir Secen in Santo Domingo on possible arms 78614
purchasing mission.

***Vladimir Secen told EVMUSCLE-1 in Santo Domingo
that latter should be ready with group for in-
vasion of Haiti as Secen had money and backers
and would be ready shortly.


WILLIAM V. EROZ -
C/WHD
OCC (Mr. John Greany)
AC/WH/7
DAVID A. PHILLIPS
C/WH/COG

COORDINATING OFFICERS
S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# CABLE SECRETAR AT DISSENTION

PERSONL IT NOTIFIED

C5/00

ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED ISSUED

SIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

26SECRET

ASTING ANCIOR INITIALS-SEEN BY

(When Filled in,

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COM DOOMSTO

INDEX VES

CLASSIFY TO FILE

A-BEF TO FILE NO.

PRECEDENCE

DISSE BY.

28

AT

22202

FILE NO Eng BRANCH DESTROY SIG

758 WH8 RID COPY FILE VIR P/AN, WHLOGS, CS/DO

(MBL)22 JUL 18:55140

SECRET 222018Z JUL 68 CITE JMCOBRA (3363)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

JMUNION

STATION HAS BEEN ASKED BY LNYUMA IF WOFIRM HAD ANY

OBJECTIONS TO THE TRAVEL OF ROLANDO MASFERRE BY AUTOMOBILE

FROM MIAMI TO NEW YORK. UNLESS ADVISED TO THE CONTRARY

JNCOBRA PLANS TO ADVISE LNYUMA THAT WE HAVE NO LEGAL GROUND

OBJECT. ADVISE PRIORITY.

SECRET

BT

CS COPY

SECRET

22.502.68

201-042669

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATOH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

DATE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

DISSEMINATED IN

DATE

DOCUMENT LISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042569
SEX M DUB ?
028-006-033/03
UFGA-30185
12 JUN 68
CIT ?
OCC ?
SUBJ TRIED TO RECTUIT AMSLOUCH/1,
201-351947 TO WORK FOR HIM IN CUBA.

MMM
R 6806190489

FILE IN 201-42669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

![writing in cursive says 12 Jan 68]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

FBI doc
10 June 68 (NY)
Subject - Rolando Arcadio
Masferrer Rojas

DOD (National Agency Name Check)
3 May '68
Subject - Masferrer

FBI doc
9 May '68 (Miami)
Re- Rolando Arcadio Masferrer
Rojis
Bureau # 2-156


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This materiel contains information affecting the Barural Delease of Sun Vacces bares within the meaning of the Repsonage com. Tale
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission of revelatuen of wiuchi say manner to as unauthorized person is prohibed by low.

NO FORZIGY DISSEY

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION PEPOMALLY EVALUATED TELLIGENCE

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPORT NO. CS-311/02537-68

DATE DISTR. 15 March 1968

COUNTRY Costa Rica/Haiti

DOI 9 February-4 March 1968

SUBJECT Indications by Fernando Velo, Zaban Exile in
Costa Rica, that Eegotiations Between Lacudig
Starke, Costa Rican Rigatrising Droremist, and
Polardo Masferrer, Cucan Zeile Involved in
-Plotting Against Haitian Goverment, sere Kot
Progressing Well

ACQ Costa Rica, San Jose
(4 March 1968)

FIELD NO. HRS-4108

SOURCE An official Costa Rican service.

1. (Field Comment: The following report should be read in conjunction with TDCS-314/01096-68, HRS-4065 and CS-311/02024-68, HRS-4099, which reported that Fernando Melo Fontanills, a Cuban exile in Costa Rica, was serving as an intermediary in negotiations between Ludwig Starke Jimenez, a Costa Rican right-wing extremist, and Rolando Masferrer, a Cuban exile in the United States who was involved in plotting against the government of President Francois Duvalier of Haiti. The negotiations dealt with a plan whereby Starke would pro- vide a staging area for an invasion of Haiti by Haitian and Cuban exiles under Masferrer's leadership. In return Mas- ferrer, if successful, would subsequently support a move by Starke against the Costa Rican Government. Kelo was reported to be planning a trip to New York on 21 February 1968 to talk with Masferrer and the latter's representative in the negotia- tions, Father Diego Madrigal Alvarez.)

2. When Melo returned to San Jose on 2 March after visiting New York City and Miami, Florida, he was detained and searched by security officials at the airport. Anong Melo's possessions the security officials found a letter, signed by Melo, addressed to Father Diego Madrigal, New York. The letter was dated 9 February 1968. It was typewritten on iccterhead stationery of Rogelio 2. Pinto Impresos. (Costa Rican Service Comment: Kelo sells printing equipment and thus may have a business connection with the Pinto firm.)

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE DIA APMY NAVY AIR APC
FBI 2 IANS

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION PEPORT

|         |            |                 |
| ------- | ---------- | --------------- |
| CI/10   | WH/221M    | HRS-4108        |
| CA/PROP | WH/MASA    | HUGLIS          |
| TOTALE  | WH/COG/221 | (HUGLIB-S)      |
|         |            | CS-311/92537-68 |

IZ 2, CI 4, FI 3, CA 2, WH/COG 1,
мия (1) По 1

LAGOR 18

201-42669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEY

3. Melo's letter acknowledged receipt of a cable from Madrigal; it then went on to state that "Rogelio obtained the visa" and now "the Haitian can come when he wishes." (Field Comment: Rogelio may be Rogelio Pinto. CS-311/02024-68 quoted Melo as saying that Starke had obtained a visa for Jacques Moringlane, a Haitian who would be the first of the Masferrer group to arrive in Costa Rica.) Kelo ther wrote that because nothing had been heard from Kadrigal since the latter's visit to Costa Rica "the friends here" had begun to believe that "everything has been a pipe dream of mine; that ve neither are going to do anything nor have anything." Melo complained that Madrigal's silence appeared to have lessened,smalt the enthusiasm of this man of action and of rapid resolutions, who does not like to be made to waste his time." Kelo warned Madrigal that if the Masferrer group had not reached a decision to move ahead with the plan, it would be better for the Haitian not to come to Costa Rica. Melo also warned that if there were no Cubans participating in Masferrer's project, he, Melo, would not support it, since he was interested only in the Cubans' problems and not those of the Haitians. Melo informed Madrigal that he expected to arrive in New York on 18 February; he suggested that they discuss the subject in detail at that time.

4. On 4 March Melo again left San Jose for Xiani. He told the Costa Rican security officials that he would be away from Costa Rica for a month.

5. Field Dissen: State Army CINCSO (Also sent Managua and Port-au-Prince,)

E-R-C-B-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

FBI doc
11 Mar '68 (Miami)
Re- alleged Play for Haitian drivesion from Boat
"Yiple"
Bureau # 105-14078


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

BI FILE .

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

SOURCE DOC.

6. BATE

6. DATE PROCESSED

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

I CROSS REFERRED TO HIS FILE
VERSES TO
FILE.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFFPRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB 7

201-821979
VHPS-04108
07 MAR 68

CIT CURA
OCC ?
INVOLVED IN PPOTTING AGAINST THE COF
PAFS DUVALIER IN HAITI. LTR INDICATING
NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN SURJ AND LOOTG STARKE
/201-767989/ HAD NOT PROGRESSED WILL

UFCHTPHA

R 6403261209

FILE IN 201-42169

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET
7 MAR 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CASE REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                           |                            |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
|                                 | 1. FILE NO.                                       |                            |
|                                 | 2. DISPATCHED OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.           | 4. DATE                    |
|                                 | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO 9. EVALUATION |                            |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                                 | 11. DATE                   |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                              | 13. TRANSFERRED TO OF FILE |
|                                 | 14. PERTINENT INFORMATION                         |                            |

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX & DOB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
100-300-017
DRC -1205?
CA MAR 68
FRI
KNOWN AS THE BUTCHER OF THE ORIENTE PROV, A
CLOSE ASSOC OF BATISTA, A MASS MURDERER AND
SADIST, OWNER OF PRIV GANGSTER GP, THE TIGERS,
USED BY CIA IN PREPARING THE BAY OF PIGS IN-
VASION AND AGAIN IN 67 OF THE UNSUCCESSFUL IN-
VASION OF HAITI, ESCAPED TO FLORIDA.

6804120056

FILE IN 201-412669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

4 mar68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material conteste taloration affecting the National Defense of the United States within the weaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Seca. 13 and 794, the bansasunor revelation of which it say benar le es chauthessed person za protabeted by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

S-E-C-R-E-T

Tors is a FORMATION REPORT. HOTPINALLY EVALUATEMONTELLIGENCE

REPORT NO. CS-311/02024-68

COUNTRY Costa Rica/Haiti

DATE DISTR. 1 March 1968

DOI February 1968

SUBJECT Kerotiations Petween Ludwig Starke, Right Wing Extremist in Costa Rica, and Rolando Masferrer, Cuban Exile Involved in Plotting Ivainst Governments of Haits and Sita, with A View Toward Mutual Support for Projected Revolutionary Fovements

ACO Costa Rica, San Jose
(15-23 February 1968)

FIELD NO. HRS-4099

SOURCE A high-level member of the National Liberation Party (PLN) who has access to and the confidence of top leaders of his party. His strong identification with the PLN and the knowledge that his reporting will reach U.S. official circles probably cause him to present his reporting to the best advantage of the PLN. He has submitted reliable information during the past year, but he has been known to withhold pertinent information. He received the information from Daniel Oduber.

1. (Field Comment: TDCS-314/01096-68 reported that Ludwig Starke Jimenez, a right-wing extremist who is the leader of the security forces of the Movimiento Costa Rica Libre (CRL), anti-Communist businessmen's group, had informed Daniel Üduber Quiros, of the National Liberation Party (PLN), that he was making plans and seeking support for a possible move against the Costa Rican Government in the event that it should appear to be in danger of passing into the hands of leftists. To that end Starke vas negotiating with sympathetic groups outside of Costa Rica, He eas in indirect contact with Rolando Masferrer, a Cuban exile involved in plotting against the Governments of Haiti and Cuba, through Fernando Hele Fontanilis, & Cuban exile in Costa Rica who was in touch with a priest associated with Masferrer.)

2. In mid-February Oduber said that he had contacted Melo, whom he had known for some time, in an effort to learn more about the negotiations between Starke and Masferrer, in which Melo had been acting as an intermediary. Melo said that the objective of the negotiations was to work out a plan whereby Haitian and Cuban exiles, with Starke's

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEN

201-42669

STATE OIA ARMY NAVY AIR NSA AID CNS (For Field Distributico sac final porograph)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

| CA/INT  | 1 WH/EJOS                                | 1 CI/IC |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------- |
| CA/PBOP | 1 WH/NANA                                | CI/OP/H |
| WH/R    | 1 WH/PACK                                |         |
| WH/2/CR | 1 WH/PRIM                                | WH/7/HT |
|         | IE 2, CI 4, FI 3, CA 2, WH 12 (1), DO 1. |         |

| SJOS-0018  | HRS-4099           |
| ---------- | ------------------ |
| (IN-57320) | HP (HUGALLY)       |
|            | HC: HUGLIB (HUGLI) |
|            | CS-311/02024-60    |
| LIAPSON    | HK GED/pi          |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

S-E-C-2-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEX

-2-

CS-311/02024-68

cooperation, sould use Costa Rican soil as a staging area for an invasion of Haiti, to overthrow President Francois Duvalier. If successful, Masferrer and his Haitian cocorts would then supply funds and armament to Starke for his projected move against the Trejos government.

3. Melo later informed Oduber that he was planning to go to Sew York City on 21 February, ostensibly to visit members of his family. However, the true purpose of his visit is to talk with Masferrer and Father Diego Kanuel Abilio Madrigal Alvarez, the priest who has represented Masferrer in the negotiations, through Melo, with Starke. Melo has been commissioned by Starke to ascertain the quantity and source of arms that the Masferrer group will make available to Starke if the group succeeds in overthrowing Duvalier. Melo also is to find out what other assistance the Masferrer group will provide to Starke, how many Haitian and Cuban exiles Masferrer will send to Costa Rica, and when they will arrive.

4. Nolo said that a Costa Rican visa already has been obtained for Jacques Moringlane, a Haitian, who will be the first of the group of Haitian and Cuban exiles to come to Costa Rica to set up their staging area. Koringlane's visa sas obtained by Starke through Rodrigo Arauz Bonilla, who until recently was the chief clerk (oficial Rayor) of the Ministry of Public Security.

5. (Field Comment: Melo has the reputation locally of being an inveterate intriguer and a braggart. Therefore, his veracity is open to question. It is possible that the information he has given to Oduber is to some extent exaggerated or distorted. It is also possible that Starke will find Melo to bo a less than trustworthy intermediary.)

6. Field Dissem: State Army Cisco (Also sent Managua and Port-au-Prince).

7. (Headquarters Connent: An official Costa Rican Service reported on 23 February 1968 that Fernando Melo Fontanils, left San Jose for Miani and New York on 21 February 1968 vis LACSA flight 620.)

NO FOREIGN DISSZM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-42669 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
A-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE BID BET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
TOTAL COPIES
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED INDEX
UNIT TIME BY
WH/COG-8/ RID COPY 2303 Z N
FILE, CSDO, VR, WH8, HaoP, CA-5, CA/leg, Calpelo, Celops, CI/IC-2, FI, F/D-4, FI/INT, IW, GRETA IN ZULUX CL: DSD/DICCI-3

SECRET 232148Z FEB 68 CITE JMWAVE 1467

DIRECTOR

TYPIC MASFERRER TRIAL 23FOB:61102

1. SENTENCES PASSED 28 FEB ON MASFERRER AND CO AS FOLLOWS: ROLANDO MASFERRER, FOUR YEARS; JEAN BAPTISTE GEORGES, SIXTY DAYS; RENE LECH, SIXTY DAYS; MARTIN CASEY, NINE MONTHS; ATUN CONSTANZO, SIXTY DAYS; ANTONIO LEON, SIXTY DAYS.

2. ALL OUT ON BOND PENDING APPEAL.

3. POUCHING MIAMI HERALD CLIP ON THIS STORY.

SECRET

SECRET

![abstract]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

FBI doc
27 Feb 68 (Miami)
Re- Aludes Perez Bauza
Bureau #105-14702

![photo of document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

INDEX: YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE no. 201-523979

E-REF TO FILE 201-767994

FILE DIS BET. TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG. L

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 4

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION: WH-8 ☑ RID COPY ☐ ADVANCE COPY ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TYPED

FILE: NR, WH/CO/8, CI/AP/OS, CI/2, F/

SECRET 232238Z FEB 68 CITE SAN JOSE 8815
DIRECTOR INFO JAVAVE, MANAGUA, PORTO PRINCE

FERNANDO MELO FONTANILS (281-823979) CUBAN EXILE

RESIDING COSTA RICA, LEFT SAN JOSE FOR AIANI AND NEW YORK

ON 21 FEB 68 VIA LACSA 620. ACCORDING TO HRS-4399 BEING

POUCHED ALL ADDRESSEES HE COMMISSIONED BY LUDVIG STARKE

JIMENEZ, COSTA RICAN ACTIVIST, TO DISCUSS WITH ROLANDO

MASFERRER PLANS FOR REVOLUTIONARY MOVE AGAINST DUVALTER.

SECRET

SECRET

MICROFILMED

MAR 7 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER

D- 201-767889

B- 201-823979

2352668

201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                       |                                                   |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. BI FILE NO.                                |                                                   |
|                                 | 3. BISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE |                                                   |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                             | 7. SOURCE CRYPTORVU8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
|                                 | 10. DISSEMINATED TO                           | 11. DATE                                          |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                          |                                                   |
|                                 | 13. TRANSFERRED TO BI FILE NO.                |                                                   |
|                                 | PERTINENT INFORMATION                         |                                                   |



HASFERPER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
019-009-008
MRS -04097
23 FEB 68

NEGOTIATING W/LUDWIG STARKE JIMENEZ /201-767
989/ RE MUTUAL SUPPORT FOR PLANNED REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENTS. CUBAN EXILE

MTPHNH

R 6803072384

FILE IN 201-42669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

23 Feb 68
201-42669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

FBI doc
26 Jan 68 (Miami)
Re-Rolando arcadio Masferrer
Rojas
Bure #2-156

FBI doc
26 Dec 67 (Miami)
Re-alleged Plar for Haitian
"Invasion from Boat "Yiper"
B105-14078


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC., SYMBOL NO.

DATE

SOURCE CRYPTO
DATE OF INFO.
EVALUATION

ANALYST
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED TO
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERENCED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO
FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, POLANDO

072-099-013
201-042669
WAVE-00427
SEX M DOB ?
30 NOV 67
IFG-09179
CIT ?
P4
OCC ?
RE PLAN FOR ACTION IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

6803771995

FILE IN 201-042669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

30 NOV 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

CLASSIDY TO FILE NO.: 201-42669 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES: 24

BE STREAM PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTION: C/WH/C065 [checkbox] RID COPY ADVISE COPY FILE:

FILE: re DCI/DOCI DCI (GOODWIN) DSP ASAP CERE CS/20 C/CSPS C/CAZ/C/PART

SECREE 1718872 CITE NAVE 2281 AS: 71
PS: 7239
ABSTRACT: IP/XX 17 Nov 67 95653

DIRECTOR:

LYPIC MASFERRER TRIAL

1. TRIAL TURNED OUT TO BE NO PROBLEM FOR AGENCY OR STATION. DEFENSE PLAN TO TURN IT INTO ANTI-CIA CIRCUS WAS TOTALLY FRUSTRATED BY JUDGE CABOT'S FIRM RULING AND BUSINESS-LIKE APPROACH OF U.S. ATTORNEY MEADOWS. ANSVIRL-1

WAS NEVER CALLED AS WITNESS, NOR WERE ANY OF OTHER FORMER AGENCY ASSOCIATES OR EMPLOYEES WHOM DEFENSE. HAD ASKED TO HAVE SUBPOENAED. ONE PROSECUTION WITNESS ABOUT WHOM WE HAD BEEN WORRIED, DAVID CABEZA, FORMER AGENT AND RECENTLY: PERSISTENT HARASSER OF CIA AND JAVE, HANDLED HIMSELF EXTREMELY WELL. COURT RULINGS PREVENTED DEFENSE FROM LWING HIM INTO OPERATIONAL REVELATIONS DURING CROSS-EXAMINATION.

2. SIGNIFICANT LEGAL PRECEDENTS APPEAR TO HAVE BEEN ESTABLISHED BY MANNER IN WHICH THIS TRIAL WAS CONDUCTED WHICH CAN BE HELPFUL IN FUTURE LITIGATION INVOLVING AGENCY. E.G., COURT ISSUED ORDER ON FIRST DAY OF TRIAL WHICH PRECLUDED TAKING OF PHOTOGRAPHS IN COURTROOM AND RESTRICTED PUBLICATION OF ANY TESTIMONY OR ARGUMENTS MADE OUT OF PRESENCE OF JURY.

SECRET

Rolands MASFERRER..

201-42669
17 Nov 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SECRET
PAGE 2 JMWAVE 0281 SECRET

THE LATTER WAS MOST SIGNIFICANT RESTRICTION AS IT RELATED DIRECTLY TO QUESTIONS INVOLVING CIA. U.S. ATTORNEY PUT FORTH MOTION, WHICH COURT GRANTED, WHICH REQUIRED THAT QUESTIONS TO WITNESSES ON CROSS-EXAMINATION WHICH MIGHT LEAD TO MENTION OF CIA BE ASKED AFTER JURY HAD LEFT COURTROOM.

3. LOCAL PRESS COVERAGE WAS LIGHT AND FACTUAL. PRESS SHOWED NO DESIRE TO EXPAND UPON OR INVESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS OF CIA CONNECTION. AS FAR AS WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO DETERMINE, THERE WAS NO NATIONAL PRESS COVERAGE OF TRIAL. INTEREST IN TRIAL IN LOCAL CUBAN AND HAITIAN COMMUNITIES MINIMAL.

4. TRIAL REPRESENTS SETBACK FOR ROBERT K. BROWN. ONE OF HIS LOCAL HENCHMEN, MARTIN CASEY, WAS CONVICTED. ANOTHER OF HIS LOCAL HENCHMEN, RALPH EDENS, WAS PRESENT AS OBSERVER DURING ENTIRE TRIAL AND WAS OVERHEARD BY FERENCE, MAKING ANTI-CIA REMARKS AND ALLEGATIONS IN CONSULTATION WITH DEFENDANT MARTIN CASEY AND DEFENSE COUNSEL NEGRETTI, NOTHING CAME OUT IN TRIAL THAT BROWN COULD FIND OF MUCH USE IN BOOK ΗΣ 18 REPORTEDLY WRITING.

5. LIKEWISE ABSOLUTELY NOTHING DEVELOPED IN TRIAL THAT COULD PROVIDE ANY GRIST FOR JIM GARRISON'S- ANTI-CIA HELL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

PAGE 3 JMWAVE 0281 SECRET

IN NEW ORLEANS.

6. CASTRO GOT NOTHING OUT OF TRIAL EITHER. ITS
   VERDICT UNDERMINES HIS CONTENTION THAT U.S. GOVERNMENT
   IS CONTINUALLY AIDING AND ABETTING EXILES IN SUBVERSIVE EFFORT
   AGAINST CUBA.

7. ONLY IRONY ABOUT THIS TRIAL IS FACT THAT ITS
   FAVORABLE OUTCOME TENDS TO UNDERMINE IN RETROSPECT ORIGINAL
   AGENCY ARGUMENTS AGAINST HOLDING IT IN FIRST PLACE. WE BELIEVE
   THAT OUR PREVENTIVE EFFORTS NEVERTHELESS SERVED VERY USEFUL
   PURPOSE--HAD DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE NOT BEEN IMPRESSED WITH
   POTENTIAL SENSITIVITY OF THIS CASE FOR CIA, THEY WOULD PROBABLY
   NOT HAVE TAKEN CARE THEY DID IN PREPARING AND CONDUCTING IT.
   OUR OWN EXTENSIVE PREPARATION, OUR COOPERATIVE POSTURE WITH
   COURT AND CAREFUL BRIEFINGS OF THE U.S. ATTORNEY
   BY FERENCE ON ALL ASPECTS CONCERNING CIA ALL CONTRIBUTED GREATLY
   TO WHOLESOME CLIMATE IN WHICH TRIAL WAS CONDUCTED AND HELPED
   DEMORALIZE THE DEFENSE WHICH, IN ALL, DISPLAYED VERY LITTLE
   SKILL AND NOT MUCH OF THE FIENDISHNESS WE HAD EXPECTED.

8. STATION ESPECIALLY WISHES TO COMMEND EDWARD K. FERENCE[^2]

SECRET

201-42669

17900 67

[^2]: FERENCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

PAGE 4 JMWAVE 8281 SECRET

FOR HIGHMY PROFESSIONAL, COM HEADED AED CONSCIENTIONS
MANNER IN WHICH HE CARRIED OUT HIS DUTIES IN CONNECTION WITH
TRIAL. INTERESTS OF STATION AND ITS PERSONNEL VERE
TOTALLY PROTECTED AND OVERALL INTERESTS OF AGENCY VERE
EXTREMELY WELL SERVED BY HIS PRESENCE HERE.

SECRET






-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECRET

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 211-42664 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE BIJ DET, TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIS.

FROM
WHCYE

ACTION
WH/COE-8 RID COPY

INFO
FILE VR WHS DEP, HOUP, SONG,

TOTAL COPIES 27
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY:
SLETTES
TURES

WAVE

SECRET 171554Z CITE JMWAVE 8274

17 Nov 55479

DIRECTOR INFO JMBAR

TYPIC MASFERRER TRIAL

1. FOR FIRST TIME IN MORE THAN A WEEK TRIAL HAS MADE FRONT PAGE OF 17 NO' MIAMI HERALD WITH STORY HEADLINED "SIX CONVICTED OF CONSPIRACY TO INVADE HAITI". LONG STORY WITH EXTENSIVE BACKGROUND ON THE CASE CONTINUES ON PAGE-23a UNDER HEADLINE: "CIA ROLE IS PLOTTING DISCOUNTED".

2. EXCERPTS FOLLOW: "MAXIMUM SENTENCE EACH COULD RECEIVE IS A $35,000 FINE AND SEVEN YEARS IN PRISON. SENTENCING WAS DEFERRED PENDING BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS. FATHER GEORGES... HAD NO COMMENT. HOWEVER, MASFERRER LABELED IT A 'POLITICAL TRIAL'. HE SAID IT "REFLECTED THE CURRENT FOREIGN POLICY OF THE U.S." "DOCUMENTS INTRODUCED AT THE TRIAL INDICATED THAT THE HAITIAN INVASION WOULD GET SOME MILITARY BACKING FROM THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THROUGHOUT THE SIX-DAY TRIAL, U.S. ATTORNEY WILLIAM MEADOWS AND HIS ASSISTANT, LLOYD BATES, PUT ON 38 WITNESSES. THE DEFENSE RESTED WITHOUT OPENING ARGUMENTS AND WITHOUT CALLING A SINGLE WITNESS. THE ONLY DEFENSE OFFERED

201-42669
17 Nov 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

PAGE-2 JMWAVE 8274 SECRET

WAS THE THEME THAT THE HAITIAN VENTURE WAS CIA-SPONSORED. HOWEVER, JUDGE TED CABOT RULED THERE WASN'T ANY EVIDENCE TO BACK UP THAT THEORY AND THE JURY DIDN'T GET ANY DETAILED COMMENTS ON IT. GINO NEGRETTI... ATTORNEY FOR THE DEFENSE, LABELED THE DEFENDANTS FREEDOM FIGHTERS...AND ATTACKED THE LAW UNDER WHICH THEY WERE CHARGED." "NEGRETTI SAID ALL THE DEFENDANTS WILL APPEAL."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

INDEX: ☐ YES ☒ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-42669 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

2-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIC SECRET. TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIC.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

3/14/C/C I

ACTION WHICOS 8 ☒RID COPY ADVANCE COPY

FILE, LL, WHE. Ampiesloo, Cucakys calica, alps.cs/sso, CALICE/ACCOR. KICL

Calpes Caka, S. 6109, 61172, TO SING, CAINTONAL VE COLA, DOI.

WAVE
SECRET 176812 CITE JMWAVE 0272

DIRCTOR

TYPIC MASFERRER TRIAL 17 Nov 57/94838

AS OF 1815 HOURS :6 NOVEMBER JURY RETURNED VERDICT

OF GUILTY ON BOTH COUNTS AGAINST ALL REPEAT ALL DEFENDANTS.

SECRET

ABSTRACT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-42669 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 2
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

SECRET

FROM
WH/C/CI
PERSON/UNIT ACTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ACTION
WH/C/CI RID COPY ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBES
UNIT TIME BY
FILE VR WHT C/PRS: 4/04 C1/285 FI/IITZ DESLP

SECRET 15164TZ CITE JMWAVE 8241

DIRECTOR INFO JMBAR

TYPIC MASFERRER IFIAL

MIAMI PRESS COVERAGE RESUMPTION OF TRIAL ON 14 NOVEMBER

EXTREMELY LIGHT. "HERALD" OF 15 NOVEISER HAS STORY ON PAGE

21-A HEADLINED "DOMINICAN GEMERAL OFFERED TO HELP SEIZE

MAITI, JURY TOLD" WHICH DEALS AITH DOCUMENT INTRODUCED BY
PROSECUTION WHICH ALLEGEDLY SHOES THAT GENERAL ANTONIO
IMBERT BARRERAS WAS PREPARED TO HELP THE GROUP. DOCUMENT
WAS SEIZED DURING 2 JANUARY 67 RAID ON HOUSE IN KEYS WHERE
MASFERRER GROUP WAS GATHERED. KO MENTION OR ALLUSION TO
CIA.

SECRET

201-42669
15Nr 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET

14 November 1967

EXCERPTS FROM: Memorandum for the Record

SUBJECT: Regular Weekly Meeting with Department of State, 6 November 1967

5. Mr. Bree noted that the Rolando Masferrer trial is finally coming up in Miami. He left a document concerning the present status of the trial with Mr. Sayre for his perusal and later return to the Agency. A similar memorandum of Mr. Sherman Kent's discussions with Dias Ordas was also given to Mr. Sayre for reading and return at a convenient time.

SECRET

19 Nov 67
201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

INDEX: YES

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 21-042664 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

3-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE REF SET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY S.C.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES (3)

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

RID COPY

INFO

SECRET 291612Z CITE JMWAVE 8169

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO JMBAR

TYPIC MASFERRER TRIAL

MIAMI PRESS COVERAGE MORNING 9 NOVEMBER VERY LIGHT.

"HERALD" CARRIES STORY ON PAGE 18-C ENTITLED "TWO LIVE

GRENADES HANDED HIM, EX-DEPUTY TESTIFIES WHICH HAS NO

CIA MENTION. STORY SUMMARIZES TESTIMONY OF YESTERDAY'S

PROSECUTION WITNESSES, NONE OF WHOM CONNECTED WITH PRESENT

OR PAST JMWAVE OPERATIONS AND ALL OF WHOM SUPPLIED CONCRETE

INFORMATION ON MASFERRER GROUP'S RENTING OF PROPERTY IS

KEYS AND MOVEMENT OF MEN AND ARMS.

SECRET

SECRET

201-042669
9 NOV 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

INDEX: YES
NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 11-042669 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
:
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE
RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ACTION WH/COG8ID COPY ISSUEDLW/44 21552B
INFO
"FILE, UR DO. DIDI DI/GCD/ DDP. ADDP CSRF, CSAC WHS, CAZ
CA/PROP, CI. Calops RT. FILINTZ
LWAVE
SECRET 682842Z CITE JMVAVE 2156
PRIORITY DIRECTOP INFO JKBAR
TYPIC KASFERRER TRIAL
ANS:
MIAMI NEWS OF AFTERNOON 8 NOV 67 CARRIES STORY ON
PAGE 3-A ENTITLED "MASFERRER VARNED ON CIA TALK FROM WHICH
FOLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS:
"LAVYERS FOR RALANDO MASFERRER AND FIVE OTHERS ON TRIAL
FOR CONSPIRACY IN AN ATTEMPTED INVASION OF HAIT I CANNOT
IND ISCRIMINATELY RAISE THE GHOST OF THE CIA IN CROSS-EXAMINATION,
FEDERAL JUDGE TED CABOT HAS PULED.
"THE JUDGE'S RULING CAME YESTERDAY ON A MOTION--OUT OF THE
JURY'S PRESENCE--2Y U.S. ATTORNEY WILLIAM A. MEADOWS.
"MEADOWS ASKED THE COURT TO REQUIRE THE DEFENSE, BEFORE
ASKING A VITNESS ABOUT POSSIBLE CONNECT IONS WITH THE CIA, TO
SHOW OUT OF THE PRESENCE OF THE JURY WHAT IT HOPES CC ELICIT
FROM THE VITNESS.
i
"OTHERWISE, 'SAID MEADOWS, 'WE HAVE COUNSEL ASKING ABOUT
CIA CONNECTIONS WHEN THERE MAY NOT BE ANY, BUT NEVERTHELESS
LEAVING THE JURORS WITH THE WRONG IMPRESSION.'
"THE MOTION VAS BITTERLY ATTACKED BY GINO NEGRETTI, CARLOS
SECRET
201-042669
87m1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

PAGE 2 JMVAVE 8156 SECRET

FERNANDEZ AND HAROLD VIITLING, THE DEFENSE COUNSEL, BUT
VAS GRANTED BY THE JUDGE.

"HE RULED THAT IF THE DEFENSE VAS ABLE TO SHOW, OUT OF
THE JURY'S PRESENCE, THAN AN ANSVER FAVORABLE TO ITS CASE
VAS FORTHCOMING FROM A VITNESS, THE SAME QUEST ION VOULD BE
PERMITTED WITH THE JURY PRESENT."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# RECEDENCE

INDEX [] YES [X] NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE 201-042669'
TOTAL COPIES 4
X-REF TO FILE NO.
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FILE RID [X] RET. TO BRANCH
FIED MESSAGE
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
DESTROY [] SIG.
FROM 8
ACTION WH/ COPY [X] RID COPY ADVANCE COPY WH/ CG N2==Z/J
INFO FILE  es/DO C/ CA/
CA2
WAVE
SECRET 081455Z CITE JMHAVE 0158
8 Nov :09378
PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO-JMBAR
TYPIC MASFERRER TRIAL
MIAMI HERALD OF 8 NOVEMBER-HAS STORY ON 7 NOVEMBER
DEVELOPMENTS AT TRIAL ON PAGE 12-A ENTITLED "DEFENSE
MANEUVER STYMIED IN HAITIAN 'INVASION' TRIAL". FOLLOWING
ARE EXCERPTS MOST PERTINENT PASSAGES.

"A GOVERNMENT WITNESS IN MIAMI'S HAITIAN INVASION TRIAL
WAS THE MAN WHO TIPPED THE U.S. TO THE RUSSIAN ROCKET
BUILDUP IN CUBA, A DEFENSE ATTORNEY SAID TUESDAY.

"THE COMMENT BY GINO NEGRETTI WAS PART OF A DEFENSE
MOVE TO TIE THE CIA INTO THE CONSPIRACY CHARGED IN AN
INDICTMENT AGAINST SIX ANTI-CASTROITES IN FEDERAL COURT.

"HOWEVER, THE INFORMATION AND THE FACT THAT THE WITNESS,
DAVID CABEZA COUPAU, 601 SW 11TH ST., ONCE WORKED FOR THE
CIA NEVER REACHED THE JURY'S EARS.

"U.S. ATTORNEY WILLIAM MEADOWS HAD BEATEN DOWN THE
DEFENSE MANEUVER BEFORE IT GOT OFF THE GROUND. JUDGE TED CABOT
AGREED WITH MEADOWS THAT THE DEFENSE WOULD HAVE TO OFFER
SUPPORTING TESTIMONY FOR ANY QUESTIONS INVOLVING THE CIA OUT OF

201-042669'
8 n-1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

PAGE 2 J AVE 8158 SECRET

THE PRESENCE OF THE PANEL. AND ANYTHING THAT WOULD GO TO THE JURY WOULD HAVE TO GET THE APPROVAL OF THE BENCH.

"BUT THE FACT THAT CABEZA, WHO NOW RUNS AN AMUSEMENT PARK IN MIAMI, HAD SEVERED HIS CONNECTIONS WITH THE CIA IN 1964 CAUSED CABOT TO TURN THUMBS DOWN ON FURTHER QUESTIONS."

"THE GOVERNMENT HAD ARGUED THAT THERE WAS SO EVIDENCE SHOWING THAT HE WORKED FOR THE FEDERAL AGENCY DURING THE TIME THE ALLEGED HAITI INVASION WAS BEING HATCHED IN LATE 1966."

"CABOT ALSO RULED OUT ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT CONNECTIONS WITH THE CIA OF A BROTHER OF CABEZA."

"CABEZA, ONE OF 23 WITNESSES THE GOVERNMENT EXPECTS TO CALL, TESTIFIED EARLIER THAT HE HAD A ROLE IN THE INVASION PLOT."

"HE SAID HE WAS TO ACT AS A PROPAGANDIST IN THE STATES AND TELL THE PUBLIC THE AIM OF THE INVASION: A REVAMPING OF THE DUVALIER DICTATORSHIP AND MAKING HAITI A BASE FOR A CUBAN INVASION."

"BUT THE LITTLE ARMY THAT HAD BEEN RECRUITED MET ITS DEFEAT THE DAY AFTER NEW YEAR'S 1967--AT THE HANDS OF CUSTOMS

![illegible text] SECRE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

PAGE 3 JMWAVE 8152 SECRET
AGENTS IN KEY WEST.

"CABEZA TESTIFIED THAT EARLIER HE HAD DRIVEN A
TRUCKLOAD OF AMMUNITION AND EXPLOSIVES TOWARD KEY WEST BUT
FELL INTO THE HANDS OF OFFICIALS WHO DIDN'T BELIEVE HIS
STORY THAT HIS PANEL TRUCK CARRIED ONLY PAINT.

"THE GOVERNMENT ALSO CALLED A MIAMI MAN, JULIO
HORMILLA, OF 1458 58 17TH ST., WHO TESTIFIED HE ACTED AS A
SORT OF ADVANCE MAN FOR THE LIBERATION OF HAITI."

SECRET

L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                            |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                     | 2. RI FILE NO.                                     |
|                     | 3. DISPATCH DR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL DO. 4. BATE      |
| 5. ANALYST          | 7. SOVOCE CRYPTONTH 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALBATION |
| 6. BATE PROCESSED   | 10. SISSERIGATED IN 11. DATE                       |

| DOCUMENT DISPOSITION            |                                |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE DO. |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER RUJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?

201-273015
DAB-99864
31 OCT 67

CIT ?
FBI
OCC ?
P9

DURING THE PERIOD 59/60 HAD BECOME ACTIVELY
ASSOCIATED WITH THE ANTI CASTRO ORGANIZATION
OF SUBJ FORMER CUBAN SENATOR AND
NEWSPAPER PUBLISHER

MAS 100-005-014 R 7003060742.

FILE IN 201-042169

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

31 OCT 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET 262244Z CITE JMWAVE 9943

26 Oct 67 80657

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

NO NIACT

RE DIRECTOR 46321

1. CABEZA IS NOT LISTED AS PROSECUTION WITNESS IN MASFERRER TRIAL. COPY OFFICIAL DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE INDICTMENT LISTS CABEZA AS CO-CONSPIRATOR WHO COOPERATED WITH DEFENDANT MASFERRER IN ACQUIRING USE OF A HOUSE IN COCO PLUM, MARATHON, FLA. AND IN TRANSPORTING OF ARMS AND AMMUNITION FROM NEW YORK AND ATLANTA TO MIAMI. OFFICIAL CUSTOMS REPORT FORWARDED TO U.S. ATTORNEY WILLIAM A. MEADOWS ON 6 FEBRUARY 1967 LISTS CABEZA AS A DEFENDANT. TESTIMONY BY CUSTOMS AGENTS AND THEIR INFORMANTS CITE CABEZA AS STATING HE HAD GREEN LIGHT FROM U.S. GOVERNMENT TO ENGAGE IN HAITIAN INVASION.

2. WOFIRM WILL HAVE NO CONTROL OVER MANNER IN WHICH CABEZA CHOOSES TO TESTIFY. EXPECT MASFERRER DEFENSE WOULD HAVE NO QUALMS IN FORCING CABEZA TO TESTIFY IN MANNER AIDING GROUP'S POSITION.

3. BASED ON REVIEW AND DISCUSSIONS WITH STATION PERSONNEL FAMILIAR CABEZA ACTIVITIES, WE SHOULD PROBABLY EXPECT CABEZA TO USE WOFIRM AS WHIPPING BOY OR "EMINENCE GRISE" BEHIND


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

PAGE TWO JMVAVE 9943 SECRET

INVASION PLOT. IN LIGHT THIS POSSIBILITY, SUGGEST U.S. ATTORNEY BE BRIEFED BACKGROUND CABEZA'S WO IRM EMPLOYMENT WITH GENERAL RECAP ON HIS PERSONALITY AND , ITUDE AS IT RELATES TO CASE. ALL PERTINENT INFO AVAIL: BLE AT HQS.

SECRET

![photo of table]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

INS control
19Oct 67
Subject-Masferrer

FBI doc
12 Oct 67 (Miami)
Re- Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas
Survant# 2-156


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect 2 on case. Detach back copy and forward to RID
2.  Destroy front cover sheet if records significant actions taken or contains requisitioning preservation

FROM: AL

RID/AN

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to H. AN.

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO         | ROOM NO | DATE REC-ACT APP. ORWARDED |     |
| ---------- | ------- | -------------------------- | --- |
| 1. WM/REGC |         | 25 OCT 1967                |     |

2. WM/ELE/CA| | |

3. WM/E/R12| | |

4. WM/ELE/CIS| | 2/11| SOR

5. NG| | |

16. 
17. RID/FI| | |

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | INDEX |
| ------------- | -------- | ----- |
DATE MICROFILMED

FILE TITLE

24 NOV 1957

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY USAGE)

201-042669

DOCUMENT DATE

U/F MONT NUMBER

16 OCT 1967

UFGA 28655

SECRET

![MICROFILMED OCT 18 1967 DOC MICRO, DER]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, JKWAVE
TYPIC/AMOT/Operational
Anti U.S. Government Bulletin - EL ECO DE HOLGUIN

Action Required: None, FYI.

1. Attached herewith is AMOT Report IE-7688, dated 3 October 1967 and its attachment, a bulletin entitled EL ECO DE HOLGUIN (The Voice of Holguin) dated September 1967.

2. As noted in the report, Rolando MASFERRER Rojas (201-042669) is the author of the bulletin which attacks the U. S. Government and its agencies, including the CIA.

Attachment: As stated

Distribution:
3 - CH/WA/COG w/att, h/w

Gary L. FLUSTIKOFF

MICROFILMED
OCT 1 8 1967
DOC MICRO. BER

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO
201-042669

UFGA-28655

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

OCT 1 0 1967

9 Oct 67

19-5-3/4-0


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET ATTA TO UFGA-28655

FROM: SE (I-2,)

EE-7688

3 Oct. 1967

AGENTS: E-2

VIA: I-1

SUBJECT: Attacks on the U.S. Government and its departments and agencies

SOURCE: Bulletin entitled "El Eco de Holguin" of September 1967

REF: EE-7314

1. Attached herewith is a copy of the bulletin, "El Eco de Holguin," Year 1, No. 1, dated September 1957. This bulletin calls itself the "Official organ of the Municipality of Holguin in Exile."

2. The author of this bulletin is Rolando FARRER Rojas, who uses in it some of the pseudonyms he formerly in his articles in the paper, El Heraldo, of New York, such as "Imotus," "Miguel Peralta" and "Criso."

3. It is false to say that the bulletin is the official organ of the Municipality of Holguin, as MARRER and his group do not belong to that organization and at a meeting held on 9 July 1957, when MARRER and his group tried to oust the directorate of the organization, they were completely routed.

4. This bulletin follows the same line as the other bulletin put out by MARRER under the name Ahora, which was also called the "official organ of the municipality of Holguin." (See EE-7314.)

5. In this bulletin MARRER attacks the U.S. Government and its departments and agencies. Those attacks are underlined in red in the attached copy.

> [Figure: A stamp indicating that the document was microfilmed on Oct 18 1967]

SECRET

CS COPY

Act. I UFGA-28655

10 Oct 67

201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# EL ECO DE SECRET ATTACHMENT TO UFGA-28655

# HOLGUIM

ORGANO OFICIAL DEL MUNICIPIO DE HOLGUIN EN EL EXILIO

NUM. 1 SEPTIEMBRE DE 1967 AÑO I

## EDITORIAL

Según la "hard ase!l.geace", en los oñος 70,
Chine dispondré de los medios de ecarres (cohetes
Intercontinentales) que sessoria Estados Uni-
dos y Rusio.

Sótese que los chinos han mpreso mapas con
las fronteros del imperie de Mao en los Urales.

El potencial humano y los grandes saltos en
tecnología militar de Chas y la residad de su gron
moso corçando sobre el swasta do Asia, Japón y Fr
lipines son un serie desatio pare el podería nortea
mericano en el Pacifico. Al saremo de que tanto Nor.
memórico como Ingieterre, sieneen yo uno codeno de
bases en el oceano indico.

Esto esplice of acuerdo Calensivo ruso-ome. dos en Norteamerica Guiller, bus hermanos de la patria
ricane quo contemple yo, previsoramente, ton inquie. no Fullers Jenny Jeweli, chica de Calisto Garcia, ol.
tonte perspective que solo puede resolverso en una no a Cacocum,
guerra do E. U. y le URSS contre Ciuna.

BOBBY FULLER

Bobby Fuller era un ane Thompsos.
ricano de Holguin. Hijo de Los bolgamneres, qon ven
etres dos bolguneros nacs. con trateza come muchos de
colinos de Lewiston, press-vidan sus deberes con los
que han gordado atrás, Lienen,

Notable atleta en sus on altar en ses corazones p
dizs de estudiante en Kiams, ta Busty Failer, como para
Bobby fue destacado asem Barba Thompson, que un
bro del glorioso cuerpo de la dia se muy lejano, tendrán un
fantería de Marina de Estados moovacato al pre de las em-
L'eitos.

Tras kaberse jugado la
vida en tareas clandestinas,
en les primeres tiempos de la
tiranía cononnta, Hobby den
embarcó en la primera expe.
dición armada llegada a la
Coats Norte de Onente, en
ayuda de los alzados en la
región de Guantánamo-Bara-
coa.

For capturade tras peno-
sa odiora en las montañas.
Ylusilato en Santiago de Cu-
ba, junto a tron dos valero -
sos sorteamericanos amigos
de Cuba: Tony Barba y Dale

Los Renegadios

Por Miguel Peralta.

Toda la charlataneria de los meapaces duι
gentes anticomunistas cubanos levansando falsas es Katalon Unidos weieri- Norteamérica la posición de
perenzas en lo Organización de Estados Americanos ris, a trous loces, una veci enemistad internacional y de
de quienes se espera, vonamente, una actitud viriline Cuisa democrática si régi peón de ios rases y los chi.
frente a las provocaciones dsi bediendo bandido de ans de opresión en siede nos que jueza la nación cu-
La Habana, revela inccaprensión y cocardía de gen- Fidel Castro. bana en ei cuálero de la gue-
tes oportunistas que no tienen ei coraje para llamar Pero es evidente que na ina
los cosos por su nombre. La garibición de que los Eucho más que la situación El destino triste, el ham-
de miveria y terror que pate- bre, la exiermedad, el miedo

Paso o lo Pay 2fces 10 cubanne joteresa a

SECRET

inspaces 808


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# EDITORIAL....Continuación.

vanouis jos escoian a ellos para administrar a Cuba litce los coavierce en vulgares cómplices de esta política que ha condenado a la esclavitud al pueblo cubano que se creía, en su ingenvided, amparaca es su soberanía por los papeles mojados de los estados de Rio Caracos. Bogotá y por la letra muerto la doctrina Monroe.

La OEA, como ha dicho valientemente el dirigente venezolano Carlos Andres Pérez, hace lo que mande Washington, y éste, al presente, baila al son de la balalaika.

Se trata, pues, de convenir en que nadie nos va a sacar las castañas del fuego. Y que nosotres, debemos pelear por nuestras libertades. Como lo hemos hecho siempre: solos.

En Cuba ocurrirá una guerra únicamente cuando desde el destierro, llegue una fuerza armada de decenas de miles de hombres. Y es evidente que Estados Unidos, por estas realidades de político mundial, no permitirá jamás que aquí se organice esta fuerza.

Pero los cubanas podemos conquistar, en alianza con luchadores democráticos de otros países, un santuario donde alistar ese ejército con aviones y tanques.

Castro no tiene más poderío militar que el que mantenía España en Cuba en 1895-98. Y hoy, la emigración tiene más potencial humano y económico y las posibilidades de adquirir armamentos en Europa y América son incomparablemente mayores que a fines del siglo posodo.

Este es el único camino para cumplir con nuestro deber y salvar nuestro honor y escaparros de los hospitoles y los cementerios bajo la nieve que son hoy la única amarga alternativa dei destierro.

Quien no lo comprenda es un asno. Quien no toxic esta senda es un cobarde, no importa qué pretextos o argucias esgrima pora ocultar su infamia y doovergüenza.

# CUBANOS MALOS Y BUENOS

Algunos cubanos han so- frido el decomiso de sus armas, la prisión a la cxpulsión de la Florida por intentar hacer llegar armas y municiones a Cuba o por hacerle la guerra al bandido Castro en Méjico o el Canada. En cambio, otros, más afortunados, se har hecho ricos o han gozado de una vida muelle en sus trajines de luchadores contra la tiranía.

Esto ha causado la división del destierro. A la vez que la corrupción y el escepticismo.

Si alguien quiere ganarse algunos dólares, o ser meluje do en la nómina de la (CIA) La Aduana, no tiene mis que delatar meterse impudicamente a chisato y sualon, hasta se le autoriza a prestar un arma. Pero si alguien quiere arriesgarse a sufrir cárcel y persecuciones, a que le choqueen el teléfono: y ann a que se le dilame por la prensa y la radio, pues que se atreva a desafiar la acutralidad norteamericana y trate de hacer una incursión a la costa de Cuba o adquiera, una embarcación para llevar armas de contrabando a la isla. O se meta en trajines de sabotaje contra Castro.

Nunca con más vigencia el viejo postulado bíblico: Por sus obras los conocereis!

Esos dirigentes de hoteles y jets, son los bien pagados.

Los que han sufrido en cierrus, expedientes de deportación... esos son los de fiar.

Que ebras son amores y no buenas razones.

El alto nivel de vida de Estados Unidos, que absorbe a los desterrados cubanos en el disfrute de los bienes materiales de la sociedad americana, conspira contra el patriotismo y la abnegoción que deben primar en el espíritu de la emigración. Quié si hubiésemos dado en otras playas más inhospitalarias, en el Matto Grosso, en el Peten o en la Tundra canadiense, ya habría comenzado la guerra de independencia.

HAY MAS DE WIL MILLONES DE DOLARES DE LOS CUBANOS RICOS Y ACOMODADOS, EN LOS BANCOS DEL DESTIERRO. ALGUN DIA, LOS SAEZOSONES, LOS QUE TIENEN PROPIEDADES EX CUBA, TENDRAN QUE HACER, QUIERAN QUE NO, SU CONTRIBUCION AL TESORO DE LA GUERRA.

> [Figure] A simple line chart showing a downward trend.

Represa "Cacoyuguin", ocueducto de Holguía


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# LOS RENEGADOS... Viene de la Pag. 1

y la abyección de los cuba-
nos, en ocho años que dura
se martirio, no ha llevado ni
a Estados Unidos ni a las
naciones del hemisferio que
siguen su politica exterior,
sin discrepar en una coma, a
librarlos de su sufrimiento.

Ni siquiera en el mero
cumplimiento de lo que maa-
dan los compromisos interna-
cionales escritos en Caracas,
Bogotá y Río de Janeiro.

Estados Unidos y las
mal llamadas repúblicas ber-
manas del Continente, no so-
la sa treven un dedo para
ayudar, como vienen obliga-
das, a que el pueblo de Caba
recespriste sa soberanía y
restatiezca sus libertades,
sine que impiden con la fser-
za, tode intento de los pa-
triotas cubanos por hacer lle
gar a los que desafian el pa-
redón de las ejecuciones en
la isla, se mensaje solidario
es la forma de armas y muni-
ciones.

Esto, más que fariseis-
me e hipocresía, es un acto
canalla, que convierte en vas
mojiganga a la OEA y los tra-
tades.

Si no fuese por el eficaz
rol de guardaespaldas del a-
sesino y bandido Castro a
que ha sido llevada Norte-
américa, quizá habría ya mua
quema civil en Cuba.

Norteamérica dice que
simpatiza con los cubanos
libees. Pero el aparato de
repress de las actividades
de les patriotas en esta sa-
ción, es cien veces más -
phey cosioso que el que
existía cuando los comesis
tas en la Sierra Maestra usa-
baa a la Florivia como base
de apoyo logistico para so
έναατκεείός.

Esar secreto a roces
Que las arma earr
Hiden son via
Camilla Ore de
Venezuela cura
piles treatizaciones de
pre de tire
Castro habria sido aplastado
por ei general Eigio Cantí-
lio, fucronica por
Arencia Central de inteligento
cia. Lo de la "Carpatal
var" para pagar estas
armas contradas en Alcxan
dria. Ya, a jazerarmco"
fue una conina is su

El afán de deiender la
absurda ley de neutralidad no
era tan vigoroso como hoy, a
pesar de que Estados Unidos
no tiene relaciones amisto-
sas formales con el barbudo
de La llabana.

Quien crea que Estados
Unidos o la OFA van a hacer
algo contra Castro es un idio
ta incurable o es un vendido
miserable.

Quien, por Lantener es-
tos espejismos, cobra dinero,
que es el casode muchos ma-
los cubanos, mañana tendrán
que responder de su felonia.

Norteamérica y Rusia, a
pesar de sus discrepancias
es público, estia de acuerdo,
en el gran plano mundial. Na-
da los separa. i solo les
preocupa a ambos el peligro
amarillo que para los años 701
dispondrá de los cohetes in-
tercontinentales para agredir
a la URSS ya EE. UU.

Quizá Norteamérica no
tenga otra azernativa en su
estrategia giobal y en la de-
lensa de su vida misma.

Para que se sepa que en
ese idilio de Tashington y
Moscu, el pueblo cubano bal
sido clavado en la cruz.

Y que se diga que Lam-
tién los sales cubanos quei
anteponcs los intereses de
Estados Unidos a ion de lal
patria, haciéndose pagar
dineros por sa negra raición
son una piara de cerdos.

Los organizaciones que so
tienen armas, ni barco ni
dinero, ai sus dirigentes
desafían la hipócrita ley
de neutralidad, son organi-
zaciones de mentira.

# ABUSO CRIMINAL

Jesús Fanjul, responsable militer del Muni-
cipio de Holguin en el Exilio, ex-oficial del ejérci-
to de Estados Unidos, graduado en una academia mi -
liter de este país, descendiente de muy respetable
familia de nuestro término, ex-preso politico en Cu-
bo y uno de los dirigentes de la abortada expedición
a Haití, fue condenado a dos meses de prisión el pa-
sodo miércoles.

Un periodista provocador y un isez de esos
que destilen odio discriminatorio contra los cubanos
cue no se vencen a la CIA nia Castro, is mandarga
dias dias a a la temible cárcel dei Canمفتش bajo la
falsa acusación de haberle pegado al periodista que
lo retrataba cuando Fanjul y otros 70 cubanos anti-
comunistas se hallaban presos tras el fracaso del 3
de Enera en Cayo Maraton.

De nada valieron los numerosos testigos que
afirmaron que Fanjul no fue quien le pegó al imper.
tinente cínico. El juez y el reportero, que aparen-
temente goza de grandes influencias en la corte,
donde ejerce de cronista judicici, se reían burlana-
mente del condenado, en un odioso abuso de poder.

En todo caso, estas riñas se penan con una
pequeña multa. Quizá con cinco días de arresto.

Fanjul tiene una esposa y una pequeño hija
que chora tropiezan, amén de con la cerma de sus
ingresos, con la dificultad de trasladarse al trabajo
y a la escuela.

Maldito juez que en su furia anticubana, re-
cuerda los iribunales populares del costrato.

Son los mismos endiablados chupatintas que
contienen a Felipe Rivero en las propics ergástulcs
sin fianza ni juicio, en violación flagrante de sus
derechos civiles y humanos, desde hace más de tres
zeses.

> [Figure: Loma de La Cruz, possibly a map or graphical representation of Loma de La Cruz.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# ?PODEMOS GANAR SOLOS LA GUERRA?

Yo creo que sí, pero ese no es el tema del ar-tículo. Lo que sí creo es que los cubanos no esta-mos haciendo todo lo necesario para ganar. En efec-to, podemos formar un ejército invasor de 25,000 cu-banos bien adiestrados y apertrechados, adquiriendo armas, aviones y barcos para desembarcar por distintos puntos extratégicos, al mismo tiempo que la resistencia interna inicie en toda la isla una campa -ña de sabotaje que propicie el triunfo.

Eso lo podemos hacer sin la ayuda de nadie, nos boston nuestros hombres y nuestro dinero.

Si para entonces, Rusia ha retirado sus tro-pas de la isla, el triunfo será clamoroso y rápido, pe-ro de lo contrario, a la América Libre y a los Esta-dos Unidos, no le quedará otra alternativa que apo-yor nuestra guerra justa y necesaria.

La iniciativa asumida por los propios cuba-nos, descarta la posibilidad de una guerra internacio-nol, que es el único valladar que hasta ahora, se ha opuesto a las determinaciones de la OEA y de Wash-ington.

Se necesito mucho sacrificio por parte de los cubanos aptos para la guerra y de ic's adinerados, porque ellos son los que tienen que dar vida y ha-ciendo por la independencia de la patria y la felici-dad de las generaciones futuras.

Ambos sacrificios están acreditados por nues-tros antepasados: Carlos Manual de Céspedes, An-tonio Maceo. Francisco V. Aguilera, Ignacio Agra-monte, y un pueblo entero, Bayamo, y otro pueblo, Guáimaro, ardieron para iluminar el camino de la li-bertad, a la par que infinidad de cubanos ofrendaron vidas y fortunas en aras de la independencia.

Estamos incurriendo en las mismas privacio-nes, en identicos socrificios, en iguales inmol acio-nes y ejemplos nobies, porque estamos defendiendo la misma causa sagrada.

Hay que hacer conciencia de guerra, concien-cio de sacrificio. No importa quien ha de dirigir la guerra, que a la patrio se sirve desde cualquier lu-gar.

El triunfo no será de los jefes, sino de todos los que participemos en la lucha; todos tenemos que trabajar: la hora es de sacrificios y renunciamientos. A lo único que no podemos renunciar es a pelear por Cuba y morir por ella.

Le patrio es ara y no pedestal; es agonía y deber, dijo el Apóstol, y murió en Dos Ríos.

***

# CUBA EN EL EXILIO

Por CRISO.

Hay 10 mil holguineras en Estados Unidos. La mayor parte exilados. A unque abundan los emi-grados que no muestran interés alguno en vengar a-gravios ni reconquistar su perdida dignidad de hom-bres.

10 mil hombres y mujeres en pie, poniendo ca-da día su grano de arena en el edificio de la libertad, podrían hacer mucho. Pero los comecheques que has-to aquí dirigían la crocnización del término en el des-tierro, ni se reuníca, ni Juntaban armas ni dinero, ni hacían una publicación, ni movilizaban a nadie en oc-tos patrióticos. Eso sí, clqunos vivos recibían su checue de la CIA por descio de la mesa. Y a yantar. Su consigna: "tu no comedes. Yo sí comedes..."

En la asamblea en cue obtuvieron 16 votos y fueron echados de la organización del municipio por sometidos a la política je opacicucmiento y conviven-cia de EU con Castro, ios "chivas" llegaron como Guapitos a algunos sopiones de la CIA con sus pis-tolitas al cinto

Entre eilos, un chiquito hijo de españoles de apellido Ugartemendía que hace poco crocsa por ins poricles de Holcin vestico de miliciano metiéndole miedo a las gentes y mostrando orondo, su carnet del G-2-

¡Jesús, que miedo..!

Rumores circulantes al cierre de esta edición del boletín de la gente de La Chomba stiman que le "cortaron el tubo del proje" si inclino picuo Luis Conte Aquero, el homire que colaudió el csesincto de su hermano Nicola's en Santiago de Casc a mancs de la "maffia" castrisia. Lo sabrosana "muiata de fuego llegó a recibir la frontera de 15 mil dólares c! res de manos de la provida CIA. La cua: quiere ce-cir que si no ho monicão nececios priveños como su parigual Monolito Artime, chora empezará el exilio para quien dijo: "Fidel, me miro en tus ojos..."

No se deje engañar: no hay ni mil cubanos que que se reunon cada semana con su grupo, que se mul-ten con unos pesos el mes, o que sueñen con el fusil que nos quitará de la frente la ceniza del deshonor.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# CUBA POR DENTRO
Por IGNOTUS

Un ex oficial del ejército castrista recién llegado a Miami desde Cuba, dijo que los alistados de la famosa división 50 del ejército comunista con a- cantonamiento en Mangos de Baraguá, son todos del servicio militar obligatorio y de menos de 20 años y que no muestran entusiasmo por "la tía Tata" como Ilaman a Fidel Castro.

Agregó que si no hay un desembarce desde afuera, cualquier mañana las amas de casa, desesperadas por la crisis de los alimentos, salen por cientos de miles a la calle y derriban al régimen.

Finalizó diciendo que en San Luis, sólo hay 13 comunistas. Y qué esto es poco más o menos la si- tuación en Cuba entera.

El pseudo escritor Lee Lockwood que ha puesto en circulación un lujosa libro que se vende a 10 dólares en Estados Unidos, con decenas de foto- gratias de la "tía Tata" y una amplia descripción de su apetito de Fantagruel (almuerzo en Uvero: Lechón asado, arroz, frijoles, yuca y fufú de plátano, pollo frito, cerveza, vino, coñac, filete mignon y tabaces), dice que abunda un excelente pasto para el genodo Ilamado "aarabú", al que el INRA da mucha aten- ción.

Ana Laura Infante, que era quizá la señora más aristocrático y discriminatoria de Holguín, casa- da con un tipo parasitario, gallego, llamado Feman- do Zorrilla, es de las de "patria o muerte, y en sus olardes democráticos barre las calles de la ciudad. Su hijo "Pincho" bebedor, parrandero y nitoratador, que llegó a robar a sus parientes, es todo in jefe del INRA en Holguín....

Y un candidato seguro a la soga y el sebo en lo guásíma cuando caiga la satrapía rusa del Caribe.

Se ven muy pocas rusos en Holguín y en toda la provincia de Criente. Corre el rumor de que se von los que quedan. Una muchacha cutana que trabajaba como doméstica de una rusa, dice que esta le regalá alguna ropa y le dijo que se marchoto a su país.

Armando Acosta Cordero, antiguo concejal co- munista de Sancti Spiritus, que desertó de la vieja auardia. siendo premiado con el bajalata de la provin- cia oriental, estaba entregado a la "dolce vita", practicaba el contrabando y la bolsa negra, disponía de muchos autos, fincas y casas. Bebía como un de- monio. Días pasados hizo una boda fastuosa a su hi- ja en Santiago de Cuba. Ahora está en desgracia. Le han quitado el mando.

Se han destruido las vallas de gallos en las ciudades del interior. Pero se mantienen las de los pobluditos monte adentro. Se apuesta fuertemente en las lidias. Son frecuentes las "paradas" de cinco mil pesos. El dinero es producto de la enorme corrup- ción de las autoridades, la bolsa negra y el juego de terminales protegidos por milicianos y comités de vi- gilancia. Es normal que los genízaros del régimen "decomisen" pero no encausen a los infelices que matan un cerdo o venden, a hurtadillas, un racimo de plátanos o unas frutas.

... Es de viejo sabido que la corrupción de la ad- ministración es siempre el preludio del derrumbe.

Con motivo de la conferencia de OLAS se or- denó la reparación y pintura de fachadas de los edi- ficios de las avenidas y carreteras. Se acopió carne y cerveza en todos los pueblos y se llevó a los hote- les donde se alojaría la "maffia" comunista latino- americana. En Cuba todo es simulación y mentira. Mucho periódico y revista mal escrito, y peor impreso en pésimo papel. Nodie cree ya en Fidel Castro. Ni lo respetan. En especial, son virulentos los comen - tarios de las mujeres, incluyendo miembros del parti- do, en los establecimientos vacíos de mercancías.

> [Figure] Aerial view of the city of Holguin.
> ![aerial view of the city of Holguin]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# DEMOCRACIA Y COMUNISMO

EL ECO, se escribe con letra de pueblo, con acento de libertad y por eso emplea el mensaje di- recto a los obreros y campesinos, a los estudiantes, militares, profesionales, propietarios y a todas las clases que integran la sociedad democrática.

Cuba, Hungría, Rumanía no tienen ac- tualmente estudiantes ni centros de cultura; en esos pueblos no pueden haber actividades docentes por- que éstas exigen necesariamente un clima de liber- tad y derecho que es imposible en los estados comu- nistas.

El estudiante, el profesional y el intelectual, como el artista, el político, el atleta, el trabajador y el campesino, el militar y el industrial, necesitan de la libertad como del aire mismo. El hombre fue he- cho para la libertad y sin ella prefiere la muerte.

En los pueblos esclavizcdos por el comunis- mo no pueden haber institutos militares, porque los ejércitos constitucionales son instrumentos que ga- rantizan el imperio de las leyes y los derechos de la ciudadanía, y en los países comunistas no se respe. ton esos principios, sino que se violan constante- mente para contener al individuo bajo un estado de terror permanente.

Allí no pueden haber profesionales ai inte- lectuales, ai políticos, porquela libertad de pensa- miento está restringida y solo se pueden repetir las consignas.

En esos países comunistas no hay preasa li bre, todo está bajo el control del estado, lo mismo que las organizaciones obreras, cívicos, etc.

Los propietarios y los industriales han sido despojados de sus bienes y negocios, porque la pro- piedad privada y la iniciativa particular están termi- nantemente prohibidas.

El hombre no puede tener ni ideas ni bienes propios.

La madre no puede educar sus hijos, porque eswa soc servidores del Estado y desde pequeños el Partido Comunista los somete a adoctriccmiento.

Se suprimen y se racionan los alimentos, por- que un pueblo sano y fuerte es rebelde.

Cumplimos nuestro deber de incorporarnos al movimiento ge.eral para salvar a la América; quere. mos cocdyuve: en los esfuerzos que se realizan en ese sentido y para ello no escatímaremos ningún sa- fricio.

Somos demócrates y, por tante, somos esen - cielmente enticomunistes.

Somos cristianos y, por tante, somos esen- cialmente anticomunistas.

Somos libres y, por tanto, samas esencial- mente anticomunistas.

La Libertad o la prisión; Is Patria o la es- clavitud; Dios o el materialismo.

Junto a la Libertad, junto a la Patria y junto a Dios, está la Democracia; al lado de la opresión, el crimen, la miseria y el materialismo, está el co- munismo.

# VENEZUELA

No nos ha soprendido la actitud postrera de. Gobierno de Venezuela, al retirar prácticamente, la denuncia que "valientemente" habis presentado ante la OEA, contra el gobierno comunists cubano por su agresiva política de intervención y subversión.

El camarada Leoni ha venido jugando con dos barajas; ton pronto manda a prender a las comunistas como los pone en libertad; los persigue ahora y los ampara luego. Su gobierno ha sido atu cora perfecta de malabarismo político.

Estamos seguros, obsolutamente seguros, que si el Ejército venezolano no se bubiera mostenido - firme en su disciplina militar y obediencia a la Cons titución, ya los comunistas se iusieran apoderado del gobierno venezolano y la patria de Bolívar esto- ría viviendo el mismo calvario que sufre la patria de Martí.

No dudamos que al presidente de Corocos le retoza el experimento marxista y por eso, hemos se. guido atentamente sus pasos. Cuando las fuerzas de la democracia derrocaron al Presidente Goulart del Brasil, Leoni no reconoció al nuers gobierno, le zis mo sucedió en el caso de Santo Domago, apelando a una precaria y absurda doctrina de su antecesor y mentor, don Rómulo Betancourt.

¿Qué quería el comoroda, qué se quedaran en sus puestos Bosch y Goutars? ¿Y si los patriotes cubanos derrocan al tirano Castro y se constituye ea la isla un gobierno provisional, ses reconocido por Leoni?

Hay hombres por cuyos veres no corre son- gie, lo que corre es petróleo...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# ¿OPTIMISMO O PESIMISMO?

En el ambiente del exilio cubano, flota la in-terrogante de si conviene ser optimista o si perjudi -co que los voceros de la opinión pública del destie-ro, se exceśca en sus pronunciamientos, torciendo quizá la dirección de los acontecimientos, al preci-piter a los petriatas en una dirección que, por su naturaleza requiere más tiempo y mayores refleziones.

Unos estiman que es fatal para la causa cu-bana, que los periodistas y los líderes de la acción saticomuniste se muestren demasiado optimistas por-que así desorientan a los patriotes del exilio y a los de la resisteccia interior, desalentándolos para pro-seguir la lucke al hacerles creer que no son ya nece-sarios sus heroicos esfuerzos, porque de todos mo -dos, con el concurso de los norteamericanos, los acuerdos de le OEA, la colaboración de los sobier-nos latinoamericanos y la concurrencia de factores imponderables, Cuba ho de ser libre en una fecho próxima.

Otros creen que lo que résulta altamente per-judicial para la causa de la independencia cubana es el pesimismo que derrochan algunos comentaristas y dirigentes, porque al formarse ese derrotisme en la masa cubaca, dentro y fuera de la isla, todos nos re-signaremos a continuar viviendo en el extranjero o iremos pensando en adaptamos a las exigencias del régimen castrista.

Nosotros reconocemos que ambas tesis estén evaladas por buenas razones y por lo tanto se justi -fice que cada una tenga numerosos prosélitos cue defiendes calarosamente sus postulados:

Pere, creo que no debemos coer necescria-mente en uno de los dos bundos exiremos. Desemos ser optimistes sin llegar a la fantasía; va optimismo sensato que lejos de confundir a la opinión pública y desalenter a los patriotas, sea capaz de former una opiniós més firme y canalizar los esfuerzos de todos ea lo lucha a muerte contre el comunismo opresor.

El optimismo ha de ser sincero, que muestre grandeza; debe ser valiente y generoso para que se contagie a los que aun están equivocados o indeci-sos.

El pesimismo debe ser suprimido de raíz; na-die debe sentirse pesimista, no podemos perder la batalla antes de que comience. Morir anticipadamen-te, por nuestra irresoluta voluntad, equivale al sui-cidio y nadie tiene derecho a desoir el llamado ur-gente de la Patria; nadie puede inhibirse.

El pesimismo debe ser suprimido netamente por el realismo; pesar nuestras fuerzas no es encon-trarnos débiles sino ponemos más fuertes para ven-cer.

El pesimismo debe ceder su lugar a la estra-te gia guerrerista, pora atacar cuando seamos sufi-cientemente poderosos para derrotar al enemigo.. No es cobarde aplazar es combate.

Tenemos que hacernos fuertes y tener un plan; debemos estar conscientes de nuestra fuerza, de nuestra moral y de nuestro valor; y estar seguros: del triunfo definitivo.

Y, sobre todo, despojarnos de ambiciones personales, de vanidades y complejos. El momento es de guerra y sacrificios, para todos hay un lugar de peligro y gloria; que cada cual ocupe su puesto.

> [Figure: Sketch of a Man's Face]

El Caballo se enfermé
y tan furioso se puso
que un veterinario ruso
vino y lo reconoció.
Tan enfermo lo encontró
que le quitó la montura
y al verle la matadura
rebosante de guvanos
dijo a todos los cubances:
-El Penco no tiene cura

Nuestro optimismo debe ser medido, ha de dar la sensaciós precisa de que sí lo podemos kacer, pe-ro con el esfuerzo y el sacrificio de todos. Nuestro eptimismo ha de ser ta en el triunio, resolución te-soica de lucisar hosto vancer.

L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# LOS CHOMBEROS EN EL EXODO

Llama grancemente la atención la eterna juventud del Dr. Eduardo (Guarro) Ochoa en sus 56 años que parecen 40. Atribuye el ex-alcalde este milagro a su equilibrio espiritual logrado en estudios y meditaciones en las disciplinas de la orden mística de los "Rosacruces".

Dice "Guarro": "A fines de año se cumple ei ciclo espiritual del azote comunista en Cuba. Eso marca el final de Fidel Castro".

* * *

Dónde están y cué se han hecho los ex-lerisia-dores Andrés (Puritai po y Rodrigo Suárez Bester. No hea concurrido a una sola reunión dominical del Municipio. Causa extrañeza esa desicic después de su aircác concen-ción de la medictización de la CIA en la organización.

* * *

cuadro de trabajo en el In- Vietnam, como oficial de geniero Andrés Paseiro, un batallón de la 9a. división de infantería. Viene destinado de nuevo a Fort Benning, Georgia.

High School.

Hace un tiempo le preguntó a un jefe in Washington como podría ir a pelear en Cuba si se preci-Honró la última reunión de los holguineros, la presencia del batalladar pitaban los acontecimientos allí. Y el general le pinta firme, Evelio Borrego, octualmente Capitón se halle, estará a menester de 20 horas de su patria".

La organización acaba de perder un valioso año, Borreço combatió en

# EL GENERAL OLIVA

Cada cierto tiempo, el señor capitán del Ejército de Estados Unidos, Erneido Oliva, se pone su traje de paisano y hace media docena de declaraciones en la primera página de la prensa anunciar-do que "prepara un ejército secreto para cuando llegue el momento de derrocar a Castro".

Se da unos cuantos viajes por el mundo y regresa a sus funciones militares. En-lamos por tercera vez en presencia del fenómeno, después que Oliva salió de las prisiones de Castro, tras el fiasco de Bahía de Cochinos.

Al presente, quedan unos 70 oficiales cubanos en las fuerzas arraadas de Norteamérica. La mayor parte de ellos combatiendo en el sureste de Asia. Sólo Oliva se ha perdido la magnífica experiencia que enriquecería se aval de soldado profesional.

Ahora Oliva anda trajinando de mano del travieso Lariquite luertas, el hombre del Banco Jiné Marti, que ya rumpsú los records de viajes de Marolo Artime, Juanita Castro y Luis Conte Aguerro.

En su alán de ser aceptado por los influyentes izquierdistas de Washington, Oliva, ex-olicial del ejercito constitucional que cuando cayo Batista corsaba en una excuela militar yanqui en Panamá, apareció en la primera plana del "Herald" de Miami: como ex-ayudante de Fidel: Castro en la Sierra Maestra. Y en unas declaraciones mal aconsejadas, Oliva hizo una desafortunada incursión en lal politica aiacando a sus anti-quos jeles militares en Cuba.

Todo lo cual ha ayudado poco al ex-segundo en el mando de la Erizada 2:06. quien no debía gastar pólvora en salvas ni dejarse "cholear" por los vivos.

La foto muestra el bonito parque "Calixto García" ce nuestro pueblo, donde se reunion alegrenante los vecinos de Holguín...

* * *

TODOS LOS DOMINGOS, A LAS DOCE DEL MEDIO-DIA, SE REUNE LA ASAMBLEA DEL MUNICIPIO DE HOLGUIN EN EL DESTIERRO.

Lugar: Local del Colegio de Abogados de Cuba en el Exilio.- Avenida 17 y Calle 12 dei South West.

No sea usted de los que olvidan a los que quedaron atrás.

Si no hay reuniones periódicas para trasejos prácticos, no hay organización, y sin organización, militancia y disciplina, no kabré guerra de liberación.

9. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

RID/AN

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

EXTENSION NO XAA2-27948

|               | DATE | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across columns after each comment.) |
| ------------- | ---- | ---- | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.            |      |      |                    | A/S X FL DST ABSTRACT X INDEX                                                                            |
| WT# NID/FILES |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 2.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 3.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 4.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 5.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 6.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 7.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 8.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 9.            |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 10.           |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 11.           |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 12.           |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 13.           |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 14.           |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 15.           |      |      |                    |                                                                                                          |

15 Sep67
201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# SECRET

OGC 67-1772

15 September 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division

ATTENTION: Mr. Walter Cini

SUBJECT: Masferrer Trial, Miami, Florida

1. I called Mr. Philip Morris, attorney in the Department of Justice responsible for the Masferrer case, and ascertained from him that the conspiracy trial is scheduled in the United States District Court in Miami, Florida, for 6 November 1967. Of the original defendants indicted, the only one dropped was Mitchell Livingston Wer Bell of Powder Springs, Georgia. A recap of the current defendants is as follows:

ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, also known as

ROLANDO MASFERRER, also known as "PANCHO"

JEAN BAPTISTE GEORGES

ANTONIO LEON ROJAS

RENE JUARES LEON

JULIO ATON CONSTANZO PALAU

MARTIN FRANCIS XAVIER CASEY

2. Mr. Morris further said that Orlando Bosch was scheduled for trial in Valdosta, Georgia, on Monday, 18 September 1967; however, he was in an automobile accident in the Miami area sometime during the week of 4 September, and therefore there would be a hearing in Valdosta, Georgia, requesting a continuance of this trial until sometime in October. Bosch is now scheduled to go on trial in Miami, Florida, on 2 January 1968.

3. It was deemed appropriate to ask the Department of Justice the status of these trials in view of Martin Casey's name appearing in cable traffic relative to the Brown interview,"

CS COPY

JOHN K. GREANEY
Assistant General Counsel

SECRET

15 Sep 47

201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

|                                       |                            |                     |          |
| ------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| 1. SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                | 2. LILLAENT IDENTIFICATION |                     |          |
| RI FILE NO.                           |                            |                     |          |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                    |                     |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONTH.                  | 8. DATE OF INFO.           | 9. EVALUATION       |          |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. DATE PROCESSED          | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO HIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO BI FILE NO. |
| ------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDU
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
< FLORIDA, MIAMI 6745 S. W. 26TH ST.
TELEPHONE 6619834

100-009-016
VDHB-87056
25 JUL 67
FBI
P3

K 1704169314

FILE IN 201042669

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 667 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

25Jul67
201-42669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

FBI doc
28 June 67 (Miami)
Re- Rolands Arcadio Masferrer Rozás
Buvau# 12-156

FBI doc
30 Mai 67 (Dallas)
Re- Raymundo Braulio Pedro Masferrer Rojos


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DATE

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

DATE PROCESSED

DISSEMINATED IN

DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFEREN TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?
CUBA
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
019-006-122/03
UFGA-27175
16 MAR 67
P6

ACCORDING TO MARIANO SORE MARIN, WAS HEAD OF COMMUNIST SHOCK TROOPS IN UNIVERSITY OF HAVANA IN EARLY 1940S. HE WAS OPPOSED BY THE FED. OF UNIVERSITY OF STUDENTS OF WHICH SORI WAS THEN SECRETARY GENERAL.
FFN 19-120-30-13/4

R 6703290056

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-42669

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)