# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: ELITART CAPIZANO, AGUSTIN, DR.
C-737418

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/CA

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 4:00 10AUG78  |               | PAT ORR                  | PhOW                            |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

THIS FOLDER IS NOT TO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF
CI/STAFF. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH THIS FOLDER
MUST NOTIFY CI/OA(5077) IMMEDIATELY IF IT IS
TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN
CI/STAFF SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE
PROPER PERSON, AND SO THAT THE FOLDER CAN
BE READILY LOCATED AT ANY TIME AS NEEDED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

APPROVAL WORK RECORD

Ct PROJECTS CARD MADE

DATE DAT LP
18 June 1961

DATE DAT LP
19 June 1963 jew

FULL NAME
GUITART Campizano, Agustin, Dr.

201 FILE NO
727418

VARIATION)

PROJECT
JMATE

S.0.0

CRYPTONYM

PSELDONYM
DATE OF BIRTH
25 April 1910

PLACE OF BIRTH
Cardenas, Cuba

CASE OFFICER
Carl Trettin

DIVISION
SAS/OS

EXTENSION
7646

REMARKS
INITIALS
DATE
COMPONENTS

Records on Former Geraan Agents Checked
In Cl/Ri, dato: 19 June 1963
Results:
NR 19 Nov 63

Nephew of 201-727417

Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans

* Coleman per 27 June 63 * Subject of prior ref
  to 00/E. Coordination must
  be effected. File other informat
  in S.O. Files.

NIC - au mimo


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE: 13 Jan 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, SAS/OS

ATTENTION: Carl Trettin

C# 201-727118

The file on GUITART Campuzano, Agustina Dr. is cancelled and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET.

FORM 691


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

## INSTRUCTION SHEET

|                |                  |                   |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
| SET UP FOR POA | EXPEDITE INDICES | DATE              |
| SET UP FOR DA  | SPECIAL INDICIES | COVERT NAME CHECK |
| AREA           |                  |                   |

| DATE                 | CASE NO. |
| -------------------- | -------- |
| 10 JAN 1964          | 727418   |
| EXPEDITE FOR INDICES | DATE     |

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS F/1/D DOSSIER REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR ____ DAYS UNTIL ____

REVIEW F/1'D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR ____ DAYS UNTIL ____

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL INTERROGATION FROM

SECURITY OFFICE DIVISION

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

FORWARD TO SECURITY OFFICE

ATTACHMENT: PRO 1

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED (No notice to Division)

REVIEW AT CI/OA

FOR REPORT: LCPLUTTER REPORT

CANCEL PER CISA NOTICE TO DIVISION

X (Reason checked below, or see remarks)

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE. ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

REQUEST RI TRACES

FILE

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

FIRST

SECOND

FINAL

REQUEST

PRO I

OTHER

REQUEST

PRO II

POA EXPIRED: _____ PLEASE SUBMIT PRO II. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

X •FAILURE TO SUBMIT PR 11 AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKS

> 13 JAN 1964
> CANCELLED
> COPY TO SECURITY

/s/ Edward P. Brown

Leonard W. Yate

SIGNATURE

SECRET

![logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,
SAS/OS - C. Trettin

NUMBER
201 - 727418

SUBJECT
GUITART Campusano, Agustin
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

18 June 1963. crm

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.


BY
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

DATE
- 8 JUL 1963

FORM 125 ...............
7-59
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

DATE: 3 July 1:63 crm

REMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Support)

SUBJECT:
OF
SOF
201 - 727418-


THOMAS CARROLL, JR.
CHIEF, CI/OA

ATTACHMENTS (IF ANY):
/s/. Thomas Carroll, Jr

FBI from Jare Roman

SECRET

![GROUP I Excluded from avtomatik downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

# INSTRUCTION SHEET

DATE 8 JUL 1963 CASE NO. 727418

SET UP FOR P.O.A.

| SET UP FOR | EXPEDITE INDICES: | DATE         |                                |
| ---------- | ----------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------ |
| OA         | SP INQUIRY        | GOV'T N. CHR | USE AREA: REQUEST "GREEN LIST" |

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL


ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REVISO STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS TECH. INTERROGATION FROM SECURITY OFFICE DIVISION

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIES OF SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE

REVIES OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED. (No notice to division)

REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division) (See "Remarks" for reason)

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

REQUEST RI TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

| NOTICE  | FIRST | SECOND | THIRD AND FINAL |
| ------- | ----- | ------ | --------------- |
| REQUEST | PRO I | PRO II | OTHER           |

REMARKS

![signature of Edward L. Brown]

FORM 707
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

# P.O.A.

# Jun 26 1963

18 June 1963

Operation Stateside Bo-30

MEMORANDUM FOR:

SUBJECT: Notification to the Federal Bureau of Investigation of CIA's Intent to Contact the Subject

Name: Dr. Agustin GUITART Compusano

DPOB: 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba

Based upon data submitted no identifiable information persuant to your inquiry located 15 tides. This is the result of a request for an FBI file check only.

(727418)

SECRET

![unreadable text in a box]

JUL 2 2 25 PM '63


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

TO: BAS/03

ATTENTION: Carl Trettin

SUBJECT: GUTEART Campusano, Agustin (Dr.)

CI/OA NUMBER: C-201-727418

CCS FILE NO: 5-26 0

ROOM: 0 0 19

CCS CASE OFFICER: Richard J. Biladdau

Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use the above individual for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon Central Cover Staff to maintain an accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity, you are specifically requested to advise Central Cover Staff Non-Official Cover promptly by memorandum when subject has been activated.

☐ If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject is in CCS/NC files. After operational approval is received, and prior to making arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the advisability of additional coordination.

COPY TO: CI/OA

DATE: 26 JUN 1963

SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, CCS/NC: Thomas K Strange

CCS CONCURRENCE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:
SAS/OS - C. Trettin
FROM: CHIEF, C1/OA

DATE
20 June 1963 cra
C NO.
201-727415
SUBJECT:
GUITART Carrizano, Acustin DC

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|                                    |       |                                               |
| ---------------------------------- | ----- | --------------------------------------------- |
| PRO I                              |       | REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER                     |
| PRO..1.1.                          |       | REVIED OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION      |
| FIELD TRACES                       |       | RIVIER OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT-CI/OA       |
| RI TRACES                          |       | REVIER OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    |       | REVITO OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA                 |
| RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION |       | REVITE OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                  |
| GREEN LIST                         |       | OTHERS (50. Romarka)                          |
| NOTICE:                            | FIRST | SECOND THIRD AND FINAL                        |
| REMARKS:                           |       |                                               |

Please coordinate with FBI.

/s/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND (OR) NAME CHECK

TO : Deputy Director of Security

FROM : Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT: 201-727418

DATE 19 June 1963
PROJECT JMATE

1. TYPE OF REQUEST
   SPEC. ING.

2. FBI CHECK REQUESTED BY (Date)

3. INDICES RESULTS REQUESTED BY
   26 June 1963

4. AREA OF SUBJECT'S ASSIGNMENT
   SAS/OS New Orleans, La.

5. USE OF SUBJECT
   cut-out in Fl operation.

6. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                               | YES | NO  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION |     | X   |
| B. C.I.A. INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION          | X   |     |
| C. SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM           | X   |     |
| D. SUBJECT AWARE OF C.I.A. INTEREST IN HIM                    | X   |     |

E. LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT

7. SUGGESTED "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT

8. REASON FOR NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE OF CIA (Explain fully)

9. RI TRACES
   NDI

10. DIVISION TRACES
    NDI

11. FIELD TRACES
    Not Init: Subject residing in New Orleans

12. GREEN LIST INITIATED X YES NO

13. ATTACHMENTS. PRO PART 1 X PARTIAL BIO. OTHER:

14. REMARKS

![P. O. A.]

![CHIEF 1
Lebered from the the archives
devigrad 40, ant
000-41-1 - 18
]

/s/ Thomas Carroll, Jr.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# INSTRUCTION SHEET

SECRET

DATE

19 JUN 1963

CASE NO.

727418

EXPEDITE
INDICES:
DATE

SET
UP
FOR

OA

SP INGY

SET UP FOR P.O.A.

26 June 63

EXPEDITE DATE
FBI
INDICES:

GOV'T N. CHA

USE:
AREA:

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST "GREEN LIST"

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS STAFF/D DOSSIER REVIED

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REVIEW STAFF/O COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS TECH.
INTERROGATION FROM

SECURITY
OFFICE

DIVISION

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DICISION

REVIEW OP SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA-

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO SECURITY OFFICE

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED:
(No notice to division)

REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER CI/OA (Notice to division)
(Soo "Remarks for reason,

REQUEST RI TRACES

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

REQUEST FOR OPERATIONAL AND DIVISIONAL TRACES

FILE

REQUEST FOR FIELD TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST

PRO I

PRO 11

NOTICE

FIRST

SECOND

THIRD AND
FINAL

OTHER

REMARKS

Area- New Orleans, La.

use - Cut-out in F1 operation

To SAS:

Please coordinate with FBI

![signature of Edward P. Brown]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

TO: XX CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
Security Support Division/Office of Security

FROM: 18 Jun 63
Wendell Ullery
SAS/ICS
GG 14

SUBJECT: Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano
(True nave)
CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM, ALA OR ALIASES

PROJECT: JMATE

CI/CA FILE NO.: 727418
SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION FELESTED

XXPROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON DITH U.S. OFFICIALS

POSVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL
SONERY NAME CHECK
SPECIAL INQUIRY 'So field investigation)

2.SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

New Orleans, La.

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

FI Asset - for use as cut-out to/uncle, Rene GUITART Rodriguez,

(201-727417) who is residing in Cuba.

NOTE: 00/C has contacted Subject, but has no current interest.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                                        | YES | NO  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOEN DURING INVESTIGATION?                         | X   |     |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                                     |     | X   |
| C. IS SUBJECT ADARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?                                | X   |     |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?                                            |     | X   |
| E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.               |     |     |
| F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT. |     |     |
| IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY                                         |     |     |


5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

|                                                |                                   |
| ---------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| X PRO 1. OF ECHIVALENT. IN IZI COPIES ATTACHED | PRO 11 ILL BE FORBARDED           |
| PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED     | X GALEN LIST ATTACHED, NO: 138893 |

6. RI TRACES

|           |              |                  |
| --------- | ------------ | ---------------- |
| NO RECOND | BILL FORWARD | X NON-DEROGATORY |

7. DIVISION TRASES

|           |              |                           |
| --------- | ------------ | ------------------------- |
| NO RECORD | BILL FORWARD | X NON-DEROGATORY ATTACHED |

8. FIELD TRACES

|                      |                 |
| -------------------- | --------------- |
| NO BECCOD            | BILL FORORD     |
| NO DE006ATORY INFO.  | DEEJAY ATTACHED |
| LIST SOURCED CHICRED |                 |

X907 19:16TD (Suplanation) Subject residing in SyDeans

![signature of Carl Trettin]

772


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET
prq part I

NAME : Dr. Agustin GUITART Campuzano
DPOB : 25 April 1910, Cardenas, Cuba
RESIDENCE : 4009 Elba St., New Orleans 25, La.
OCCUPATION : Doctor of Science (Mathematics & Physics)

Presently teaching at Xavier University in New Orleans.

EMPLOYMENT HIST. : Formerly a Prof. at the Univ. of Havana

Served as Minister of Education during the early part of Carlos PRIO's tenure as head of the Cuban Gov't.

COURT RECORD : Was imprisoned on the Isle of Pines during MACHADO's term. (date unknown)
SPOUSE : Helena TORO
CHILDREN : Agustin, Jorge, Vilma Helena, William
CUBAN ADDRESS : Havana, Calle 64 No. 1502
NOTE : Subject arrived in the U.S.A. in Feb. 1962 thru Ops Locka, Fla. where he was debriefed by 00/C.

00/C has no current interest in Subject.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)