# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chief of "tation, Fexico

Chief, WD

Letters for discussion with Anthony R. PECHAY on Rove of ANCIGA to Mexico

Kont
X

DO PTDT

For PONCHAY

The following is in response to your request for a summary of points that need to be clarified in discussions between you and Station Mexico on the forthcoming moves of ANCIGA to Mexico City.

## 1. Political

A. The requirement that the "overt" office will consist of only three officials, the others being "covert", and the statement that "the presence of Large ANCIGA in Mexico should not become known and never admitted". Cf. MXI-5906, 24 July. (Comment: It would appear impossible to comply with this requirement if there is to be an overt office and any ABMUG publicity in Mexico or elsewhere, since the identities and whereabouts of all ANCIGAR members will be a matter of public knowledge.)

B. The statement in para 3, MXII-53, that the Mexican Government will not be friendly unless ABMUG activities and "plotting to overthrow Cuban Government" remain covert. (Comment: Since there is to be an overt office and propaganda department and ABMUG has been, and will have to continue to be, described as a group organized for the purpose of removing the CASTRO.Government, their necessary propaganda activities toward this end cannot be covert. Could it be modified to apply only to agreement that no military invasion would be launched from Mexico?)

C. Clarification of the words "liaison" and "established" in the following statement by LIEK:

> ...may have to disavow ABMUG and the effort should it be established LISACK in contact with ABMUG in Mexico. (Comment: Since liaison will be a covert LIME situation, the term disavow is ambiguous. That will constitute its being established that LISACK is in contact with AMASPY. Certainly we can expect the charge will be made many times by the Soviets and Comies.)

## 2. Possibility of holding meeting to brief [?] leaders on Cuban subversive activities-Mexico (para 5, KAI-553) before arrival of NITZE, which would undoubtedly be of assistance in obtaining popular and official sympathy for ABMUG activities.

## 2. Propaganda

We plan to have ABMUG propaganda department in Mexico, but it will be impossible for them to operate effectively, or indeed at all, if continues to insist on ABMUG activities in Mexico "remaining covert" and not become a public or press issue". We feel a tremendous publicity drive should be made throughout Latin America at the time of arrival of ULSA in Mexico. Station KUSUG assets will be needed to a large extent in improving the public and political climate to allow ABMUG people to work effectively. Also, it is hoped Station will be able to guide and support [?], who will arrive in Mexico soon to produce [?] in Chile, which will ostensibly be independent but actually will also make satirical, humorous radio tapes for broadcastice over Radio [?].


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Ro-8965

3. PK

Requirements set forth DIR-40133, dated 15 July. If permission could be obtained for use this territory, even if only for 72 hours prior and during the main strike operation, the project would be advanced materially.

4. GI

A. To concur requirement that WICKER contact with Station and with ANCIGAR be clandestine. Need Station's assistance in working out mechanics of these contacts.

24 B. Station's advice and assistance needed on following: (1) provision of *unilateral* telephone tape/mite installation operational data for AFCIGAR consumption; (2) protection *unilateral zone probes* of ANCIGAR members against enemy agent executive actions; (3) *unilateral* agent surveillants to check on security and loyalty of overt/covert ARCIGAR members; (4) selection of secure safe sites for housing of ANCIGAR members, for overt office, and for covert meeting sites.

C. *Eerican Government* capabilities in terms of protection of overt ANCIGAR members against enemy agent executive action operations.

D. Can Station communication facilities (pouch and cable) be used for secure AMRASP communications between members in Mexico and those in PEPRIDE and elsewhere!

OLIVER G. CALDCED

Distributions

3 - Mexico

9 August 1960

1 - Mexico Desk

1 - WH/A/Chrono


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)