# SECRET
EYES ONLY

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

8 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

FROM : Michael E. Schneeberger

SUBJECT : Philip B. F. AGEE
Exposure of CIA Personnel

[^1] 1. Reference is made to the attached P&L RYBAT cable from [London](IN 058476) dated 4 October 1976 which indicated, according to a very sensitive source, that one Ron CASPER (ph) of The Washington Post recently was in contact with AGEE. During that contact CASPER asked AGEE questions regarding the Kennedy assassination with specific interest relating to the involvement of OSWALD and Cubans. CASPER also queried AGEE regarding personalities assigned to the Mexico City Station in 1963, and AGEE provided CASPER with details regarding the Station's surveillance capabilities and the functions of specific individuals of interest to CASPER.

2. Regarding the individuals of interest to CASPER, the following is a brief summary of pertinent information relating to those individuals identified by AGEE to CASPER:

NAME LISTED IN CABLE OS FILE NO. AND SUMMARY

BUSTOS, Charlotte BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte B.,
SF#56 840; appears to be Chief
of Station at [Trinidad] since
June 1974, integrated State
cover. Well known to AGEE
through assignment to Mexico
City, July 1967-August 1972.

FREDERICK, William FREDERICK, William Fulton,
SF#60 785; former GS-12 LA
Division Ops Officer who was
dismissed due to improper
handling of Agency funds in
September 1966; may have

SECRET
EYES ONLY

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 007472


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET
EYES ONLY

STEWART Joe (or Jack)

assisted AGEE in his Inside the Company. Exposures include "close" relationship with AGEE and CIA Von A-Z. As of June 1972 Subject was employed by U. S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.

(STEWART, Jack) NMN, SF#32 953; former LA Division Case Officer who retired 30 January 1970. Assigned to Mexico, 1960-1965. Exposed in Who's Who in CIA and CIA von A-Z.

SCOTT, Winston

Former Chief of Station at Mexico City Station, 1959-1969; retired July 1969, died circa 1973. Exposed in Who's Who in CIA, CIA Von A-Z, and mentioned numerous times in AGEE's book.

WHITE, Allan

WHITE, Alan Perine, SF#28 700; former DDO/OPS/ITG employee who retired 31 July 1975; assigned to Mexico City, 1963-1967 as Deputy Chief of Station; exposed in CIA Von A-Z and Who's Who in CIA.

WATSON, A. S. (Stanley)

WATSON, Daniel Stanley, SF#57 626; Former Chief/Training Resources Group/DTS who retired 30 June 1973; was assigned to Mexico 1965-69. Former security interest due to friendship with BOOTS CIA Von A-Z.

DILLON, Paul

DILLON, Paul Leo, SF#43 334; currently a Case Officer at New Delhi assigned to Mexico City as Chief of Soviet Ops, 1965-1969. Exposed in CIA Von A-Z, listed in AGEE book, identified in October 1974 Bridgeport, Connecticut, Post, and known to Indian Communist Party, May 1976.


2

SECRET
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
EYES ONLY

VOGLE, Don

VOGEL, Donald Frederic, SF#55 277;
currently Deputy Chief of Station at Islamabad Pakistan, was
assigned to Mexico City, 1967-70 as DC/SB/CIG. Exposed in Winter
1975 *CounterSpy*, listed in AGEE book, identified in October 1974
Bridgeport, Connecticut, *Post*, and Who's Who in CIA.

HAUSMAN, Cynthia

HAUSMANN, Cynthia Joy, SF#61 423;
currently assigned to CI Staff/
R&A; assigned to Mexico City,
1965-67. Exposed in CIA Von A-Z,
October 1974 Bridgeport, Connecti-
cut, *Post*, and listed in AGEE
book.

STEELE, Robert

STEELE, Robert Hampton, SF#230 069;
former SB Case Officer who resigned
July 1968 to run for U.S. Congress
from Connecticut (successful); was
assigned to Mexico City, 1966-68.
Listed in AGEE book and October
1974 Bridgeport, Connecticut, *Post*;
numerous publicity since election
to Congress.

[RAMIDES, Dan]

RAMIREZ, Benjamin Adrian, SF#188 141;
former WH Case Officer who resigned
February 1969; was assigned to
Mexico City, 1966-69. Exposed in
CIA Von A-Z and listed in AGEE
book.

[RAMIDES, Zeek]

RAMIREZ, Ezekiel Stanley, SF#100 937;
Former OTR instructor who retired
June 1972. Listed numerous times
in AGEE book.

[HUGHES, Frank]

HUGHES, Frank Wallace, SF#57 626;
former CI Staff Branch Chief who
retired in June 1973. Exposed in
*Quicksilver Times*, August-September
1969 article.

SECRET
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
EYES ONLY

3. Office of Security indices reflected no traces in the name of Ron CASPER, The Washington Post correspondent who was in contact with AGEE. However, it is believed that CASPER may be identifiable with Ronald KESSLER, who was mentioned in the Press Credibility security file (#610 955) as a Washington Post journalist who won the George Polk Memorial Aware in February 1973.

4. The foregoing is provided for your information. No further action appears necessary at this time except for dissemination of this memorandum to interested Agency officials.

Att

Michael E. Schneeberger
Security Analysis Group

4
SECRET
EYE ONLY.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)