14-00000
104-10219-10154
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

12DEC
1975

![stamp with dates and initials]

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
National Security Agency

ATTENTION : Mr. Benson Buffnam

SUBJECT : William Hamilton Martin and Lornon Ferguson
Mitchell

1.  Attached is a copy of a report recently received through Canadian liaison channels concerning a conversation between Canadian professor Dr. Hans Kunov and Martin in Moscow. The attachment outlines the conversation Kunov had with Martin and indicates that both Martin and Mitchell are attempting to leave the USSR.

2.  Also attached is a report on Yuriy Igoryevich Torgov, Kunov's host at the USSR Academy of Sciences Computer Center.

3.  The Canadians have advised us that the FBI has received the information contained in the attachments.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS:

George T. Kalaris

Attachments:
As stated

CIOL-00164-75
DDO/CI/R&A/E:W.Kerbe:dmj (12/12/75)
Distribution:
Arig 1 - Addee w/att
1 - C/CI w/att
2 - CI/R&A/E 1 w/att
 - C/DIVD w/att
   1 - DIVD/TCB

COORDINATION:
Paul L. Rinaldo
C/DIVD/ICS in draft
12 Dec 1975
201-282338

![stamps with numbers and classification levels]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

Dr. H KUIOV professor, Univer Ly of Toronto, visited Moscow from Septemoer 1-14, 1975 to undertake research at the USSR Academy of Sciences, under the USSR/Canada General Exchange Agreement. The research was carried out at the Academy of Sciences Computer Centre, 40 Vaveoha Street. KUMOV's host was Yuriy I. TOREOV, 2nd in charge of the Computer Centre and on whom a separate personality sketch is attached.

On September 3 while having a coffee break in the Computer Centre KUNOV was approached by a man who identified himself as William MARTII, an American who defected to the USSR in 1960. MARTIN openly spoke about his past and stated that he now lives in Moscow and that he is a consultant to TURGOV's group at the Computer Centre. He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop into the Centre weekly.

It was at this time that MARTIN told KUNOV that he would ike to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks. He also said that (Bernon) MITCHELL feels the same and has voiced his desire to the Soviet authorities.

MARTIN asked KUINOV if he might enquire with the Canadian authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this country or if there was any chance of his being allowed in here as a political refugee. KUHOV agreed to contact the Canadian Embassy in Moscow to see what the official view would be and notify MARTIN at a later date. MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and left KULIOV his home telephone number, cautioning him not to say anything over phone that would tip off the Soviet authorities as to his intentions. This first meeting lasted a little over one half hour and took place in the coffee lounge area of the Centre. There were other Sovicts present in the lounge, however, TORGOV was not among them. KUNOV does not believe the others were aware of their conversation.

On the 5 September 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy, Moscow and spoke to a doorman asking him who he might speak to regarding some Americans living in the USSR who would like to immigrate to Canada. The doorman referred KUNOV to the office of a l'rs. Louise O'CONTIOR. KUNOV then spoke to a U/ who stated that he was the under secretary to lirs. O'CONNOR. KUTNOV enquired about the Americans living in the USSR and asked could they be allowed to immigrate to Canada. The Embassy official would not commit himself and stated that KUNOV should enquire officially with the nearest office of Manpower and Immigration when he returned to Canada. KUINOV did not give this official MARTEI or MITCHELL's names. KUNOV telephoned MARTIN after the Embassy visit and stated that the reply from the Embassy was negative. MARTIN seemed upset that KUNOV should phone him, then he later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met KUNOV on at least two occasions after the 5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in the general presence of others. They spoke English at all times.... MARTIN thanked KUMCV for his trouble in enquiring at the Embassy and cautioned KUNOV not to get personally involved with him in this venture as it would be bad news. KUIKOV promised MARTIN that he would check with Canadian Manpower and Immigration authorities on the matter when he returned to Canada...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

The fol.ming observations were ma. by KUNOV regarding MARTIN:

(a) Physical Description

5'7' or 3" tall, Fair hair, crewcut, balding at the temples, pot bellied.

*   may suffer from a nervous condition, and bears the mark of a man who has experienced rough times.
*   always dressed with a shirt, tie and jacket.
*   spoke perfect English with a slight Russian accent on certain words.

(b) MARTIN provided KUNOV with the following home address and telephone number, cautioning him that his telephone was bugged.

*   telephone number - 433-03-81

117421 Obrucheva Street
Building 4-1
Apt. 126
Moscow, USSR

(c) MARTIN stated that his friend MITCHELL lives in Leningrad and is married to the Dean of the Music Conservatory in Leningrad. MITCHELL is very unhappy and he has openly asked Soviet authorities for permission to leave Russia and return to the USA. Apparently he has never been able to adjust to the Soviet way of life and is now very desperate. MITCHELL is willing to divorce his wife and take any risk to get out of the USSR. To date however he has been met with a wall of silence by the Soviets.

(d) MARTIN is unmarried. He claims to have a confortable apartment and feels that he has adjusted to the Soviet life and is accepted in the USSR.. He does not want to return to the USA but would like to get out of the USSR. He said he would have quite a story to tell about his life in Russia as well as his past and that hemould have no compunctions about telling all about the Russians. MARTIN at one point stated that he would not consider attempting to escape from the USSR.

(e) MARTIN claims that he is constantly harrassed by Soviet officials. His apartment has been broken into on several occasions and he refused to use the Soviet mail system. He has also refused to show up for work in the past as a form of protest. MARTIN also indicated that he has had several contacts with Americans in Moscow. and that they have not shown any animosity towards him. He actually dated an American woman for some time but did not mention her name.

(f) MARTIN stated that in the past American journalists have tried to contact him many times, asking for interviews but their requests have been refused by Russian authorities. ile said he hoped some day that one of these journalists woul just knock on his door and talk to him.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# ULUVBL
SECRET

TORGOV and KUHOV spoke in general terms about PARTIN ...after the first meeting. TORGOV does not claim to know PARTIN well. MARTIN has been at the centre for approximately 6 to 3 months assigned to TORGOV's group. Prior to that he worked as a consultant in another area of the Academy of Sciences. TORGOV commented that ARTIS does rach of his work at home. He said he felt sorry for MARTIN because he was not accepted by the Russians in the Academy. He also stated that he felt ARTIN was a basically honest man.

KUNOV said his motives for trying to assist MARTIN and MITCHELL are based on huminatarian grounds, only as he feels they are suffering under the Soviet system. He does not intend to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet Union. KUMOV hopes to return to the Soviet Union next year for a more extended period of study.

This document is the property of the Sovernment of
Cime. It is prasided on cortina tht it is for ese sele
starlotelligence crasscity of the receiving furraced
siebe dalassiting withed the express permissi
of Us Coverantat el Coasta

le pésert dresst est la prepiété de gorreremetta
Cada. Il est coសងជ ចោរ erre utilisation par les
sets dentes de renseignemecis de garerament entr
ai la cocoties pe sa cala de sicurtió el pas
sobile suas Tautorisatics orgressa de gesvernement από

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Rep Kerly Igoryevich TORGOV

TORGOV, LCD o June, 1932 Vitebsk, USSR, Head of Lab-
oratory, Computer Centre, Academy of Sciences, Moscow, was a
visiting professor in Toronto and Ottawa, Canada, for four
months - November 1974 to February 1975.

A number of sources were impressed by TORGOV's frank-
ness and his willingness to speak out, at social gatherings,
on current problem areas in the Soviet system. For example
he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one
occasion that present day Soviet society allowed for far greater
freedom of expression than had been allowed previously. He
said that things were being said in Moscow that one would never
have heard in Stalin's era. Nevertheless, TORGOV argued that
a return to "terror tactics" under Soviet rule was always poss-
ible. He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this
time because of the personal philosophy of Premier Leonid BRESHNEV.

TORGOV is reported to be the son of a scientist and party
member and he himself is an admitted party member. He is married
with three children. He is considered to be one of the top ex-
perts on his field (computers) in the Soviet Union. He mentioned
having travelled to other Western countries two or three times.
His English is good. He was very friendly towards Canadians dur-
ing his visit but it was observed that he did not associate with
three other Soviet research students at the same institution. On
ono occasion in Ottawa he was berated quite severely by a Soviet
Embassy official for his failure to report periodically, as re-
quired, to the Embassy. TORGOV later told a source that this Em-
bassy official "could be a dangerous man to your country"....

> This document is the property of the Government of
> Canada. It is provided on condition that it is for the sole use
> by the intelligence community of the receiving Government
> and that it will be declassified without the express permission
> of the Government of Canada.
> 
> Le présent document est la propriété du gouvernement du
> Canada. Il est communiqué sous réserve d'utilisation par les
> seuls services de renseignements du gouvernement destinataire
> et à la condition que sa cote de sécurité ne soit pas
> modifiée sans l'autorisation expresse du gouvernement canadien.

![image of the word 'SECRET']

201-282 338


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

US/75/539

75WLO-11S-38

SECRET

Mr. George Kalaris
C.I.A.

Dear

The RCMP Liaison Office
2450 Massachusetts Ave. N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20008

2 December 1975

Re: William Hamilton MARTIN, and
Bernon Ferguson MITCHELL

Further to your letter of 6 October 1975, we have identified and spoken to the Canadian professor, Dr. Hans KUNOV, referred to in your letter as Harry KERNOV. The attachment outlines the contact between KUNOV and MARTIN and MITCHELL. KUNOV has proven co-operative as a source on previous occasions and we believe he will continue to assist us within limits.

Also attached is a report on Yuriy Igoryevich TORGOV, KUNOV's host at the USSR Academy of Sciences Computer Center. In addition to any comments you may wish to make concerning MARTIN's approaches to KUNOV, we would welcome an assessment of TORGOV, if available.

The F.B.I. has received the information contained in the attachments.

Yours truly,

E.R.J. Miller,
Assistant Liaison Officer.

att. (2)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# ULUIILI
Re: W.H. MARTIN and 3.7. MITCHELL

Dr. Hans KUNOV professor, University of Toronto, visited Moscow from September 1-14, 1975 to undertake research at the USSR Academy of Sciences, under the USSR/Canada General Exchange Agreement. The research was carried out at the Academy of Sciences Computer Centre, 40 Vavcoha Street. KUNOV's host was Yuriy I. TORGOV, 2nd in charge of the Computer Centre and on whom a separate personality sketch is attached.

On September 3 while having a coffee break in the Computer Centre KUNOV was approached by a man who identified himself as William MARTIN, an American who defected to the USSR in 1950. MARTIN openly spoke about his past and stated that he now lives in Moscow and that he is a consultant to TURGOV's group at the Computer Centre. He said much of his work is done at home but he does drop into the Centre weekly.

It was at this time that MARTIN told KUNOV that he would like to get out of the USSR even if he has to run certain risks. He also said that (Bernon) MITCHELL feels the same and has voiced his desire to the Soviet authorities.

MARTIN asked KUNOV if he might enquire with the Canadian authorities on his behalf to see what his status would be in this country or if there was any chance of his being allowed in here as a political refugee. KUNOV agreed to contact the Canadian Embassy in Moscow to see what the official view would be and notify MARTIN at a later date. MARTIN seemed most pleased at this and left KUNOV his home telephone number, cautioning him not to say anything over phone that would tip off the Soviet authorities as to his intentions. This first meeting lasted a little over one half hour and took place in the coffee lounge area of the Centre. There were other Soviets present in the lounge, however, TORGOV was not among them. KUNOV does not believe the others were aware of their conversation.

On the 5 September 75 KUNOV called at the Canadian Embassy, Moscow and spoke to a doorman asking him who he might speak to regarding some Americans living in the USSR who would like to immigrate to Canada. The doorman referred KUNOV to the office of a Mrs. Louise O'CONNOR. KUNOV then spoke to a U/M who stated that he was the under secretary to Mrs. O'CONNOR. KUNOV enquired about the Americans living in the USSR and asked could they be allowed to immigrate to Canada. The Embassy official would not commit himself and stated that, KUNOV should enquire officially with the nearest office of Manpower and Immigration when he returned to Canada. KUNOV did not give this official MARTIN or MITCHELL's names. KUNOV telephoned MARTIN after the Embassy visit and stated that the reply from the Embassy was negative. MARTIN seemed upset that KUNOV should phone him, then he later stated that it would probably be all right.

MARTIN met KUNOV on at least two occasions after the 5 September, all at the Centre, usually in the coffee lounge and in the general presence of others. They spoke English at all times. MARTIN thanked KUNOV for his trouble in enquiring at the Embassy and cautioned KUNOV not to get personally involved with him in this venture as it would be bad news. KUNOV promised MARTIN that he would check with Canadian Manpower and Immigration authorities on the matter when he returned to Canada


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

The following coservations were made by KUNOV regarding MARTIN:

(a) Physical Description

5'7" or 3" tall, fair hair, crewcut, balding at the temples, pot bellied.

*   may suffer from a nervous condition, and bears the mark of a man who has experienced rough times.
*   always dressed with a shirt, tie and jacket.
*   spoke perfect English with a slight Russian accent on certain words.

(b) MARTIN provided KUNOV with the following home address and telephone number, cautioning him that his telephone was bugged.

*   telephone number - 433-03-31
*   117421 Obrucheva Street Building 4-1 Apt. 126 Moscow, USSR

(c) MARTIN stated that his friend MITCHELL lives in Leningrad and is married to the Dean of the Music Conservatory in Leningrad. MITCHELL is very unhappy and he has openly asked Soviet authorities for permission to leave Russia and return to the USA. Apparently he has never been able to adjust to the Soviet way of life and is now very desperate. MITCHELL is willing to divorce his wife and take any risk to get out of the USSR. To date however he has been met with a wall of silence by the Soviets.

(d) MARTIN is unmarried. He claims to have a comfortable apartment and feels that he has adjusted to the Soviet life and is accepted in the USSR. He does not want to return to the USA but would like to get out of the USSR. He said he would have quite a story to tell about his life in Pussia as well as his past and that he would have no compunctions about telling all about the Russians. MARTIN at one point stated that he would not consider attempting to escape from the USSR.

(e) MARTIN claims that he is constantly harrassed by Soviet officials. His apartment has been broken into on several occasions and he refused to use the Soviet mail system. He has also refused to show up for work in the past as a form of protest. MARTIN also indicated that he has had several contacts with Americans in Moscow and that they have not shown any animosity towards him. He actually dated an American woman for some time but did not mention her name.

(f) MARTIN stated that, in the past American journalists have tried to contact him many times, asking for inter views but their requests have been refused by Russian authorities. He said he hoped some day that one of these journalists youlle to just knock on his door and talk to him.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# LUUEI

TORGOV and UNOV spoke in general terms about MARTIN after the first meeting. TORGOV does not claim to know MARTIN well. MARTIN has been at the centre for approximately 6 to 3 months assigned to 703GOV's group. Prior to that he worked as a consultant in another area of the Academy of Sciences. TORGOV commented that ARTIS does much of his work at home. He said he felt sorry for MARTIN because he was not accepted by the Russians in the Academy. He also stated that he felt MARTIN was a basically honest man.

KUNOV said his motives for trying to assist MARTIN and MITCHELL are based on huminatarian grounds, only, as he feels they are suffering under the Soviet system. He does not intend to take any further action to assist them in leaving the Soviet Union. KUNOV hopes to return to the Soviet Union next year for a more extended period of study.

This document is the property of the Government of Canada. It is provided on condition that it is for use solely by the intelligence community of the receiving government and that it not be declassified without the express permission of the Government of Canada.

Le présent document est la propriété du gouvernement du Canada. Il est communiqué sous réserve d'utilisation par les seuls services de renseignements du gouvernement destinataire et à la condition que sa cote de sécurité ne soit pas modifiée sans l'autorisation expresse du gouvernement canadien.

(d)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# Re: Yuriy Igoryevich TORGOV

TORGOV, DOB 6 June, 1932 Vitebsk, USSR, Head of Laboratory, Computer Centre, Academy of Sciences, Moscow, was a visiting professor in Toronto and Ottawa, Canada, for four months - November 1974 to February 1975.

A number of sources were impressed by TORGOV's frankness and his willingness to speak out, at social gatherings, on current problem areas in the Soviet system. For example he discussed dissidents in Soviet society and commented on one occasion that present day Soviet society allowed for far greater freedom of expression than had been allowed previously. He said that things were being said in Moscow that one would never have heard in Stalin's era. Nevertheless, TORGOV argued that a return to "terror tactics" under Soviet rule was always possible. He considered that such tactics were unlikely at this time because of the personal philosophy of Premier Leonid BRESHNEV.

TORGOV is reported to be the son of a scientist and party member and he himself is an admitted party member. He is married with three children. He is considered to be one of the top experts on his field (computers) in the Soviet Union. He mentioned having travelled to other Western countries two or three times. His English is good. He was very friendly towards Canadians during his visit but it was observed that he did not associate with three other Soviet research students at the same institution. On one occasion in Ottawa he was berated quite severely by a Soviet Embassy official for his failure to report periodically, as required, to the Embassy. TORGOV later told a source that this Embassy official "could be a dangerous man to your country".

This document is the property of the Government of Canada. It is provided on condition that it is for use solely by the intelligence community of the receiving Government and that it not be declassified without the express permission of the Government of Canada.

La présent document est la propriété du gouvernement du Canada. Il est communiqué sous réserve d'utilisation par les seuls services de renseignements du gouvernement destinataire et à la condition que sa cote de sécurité ne soit pas modifiée sans l'autorisation expresse du gouvernement canadien.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

US/75/539

Dear Harry,

We have learned that on the evening of 8 September 1975, James WILKINSON of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow had a conversation of interest with a Canadian Embassy Officer. Wilkinson stated that while attending a social function at the Australian Embassy, he engaged Canadian Consular Officer Geoffrey FARRON in conversation. Farrow advised that he had been recently approached by Dr. Harry KERNOV, an Associate Professor of English at the University of Toronto in Canada, regarding American defectors Bernon F. MITCHELL and Willian H. MARTIN. Kernov implied that he had had recent personal contact with one or both of the defectors and recommended that the Canadian government give Martin and Mitchell permission to emigrate to Canada. Farrow furnished no further details regarding Kernov's contact.

During the same conversation Farrow asked Wilkinson if he could supply any basic background material on Mitchell and Martin. Wilkinson replied that he would pass Farrow's request on to the Consular Section of the Embassy. Subsequently, Farrow was given an unclassified article concerning the defectors which appeared in the June 1961 issue of True magazine.

We would, of course, be interested in any indications that Martin and Mitchell are attempting to leave the USSR and would be grateful for any information you may be able to provido us in regard to the above.

I am using the CAZAB channel in this instance as this information has been passed to us informally.

Yours,

George T. Kolaris
George T. Kalaris

Mr. Harry Brandes
DDO/CI/R&A/T: LHWigren(20ct75)

Distribution:
Orig. & 1- Addee
1 - 165-2720
1- Reading File


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)