2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY

4 August 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Security Advisor, Honor and Merit Awards Board

SUBJECT : Honor Recommendation for JAMES W. McCORD, JR.

The attached recommendation for an Honor and Merit Award is forwarded for your information and recommendations concerning any security measures that should be taken in the processing of this award.

ELLIN L. BEATTY
Executive Secretary/HMAB

Attachment

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee
1 - HMAB Case File


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD

(Submit in duplicate)

TO: Secretariat, Honor and Merit Awards Board FROM: (Operating official) Director of Security

DATE DD/S 16.6/05-2

## Section A

1. NAME OF PERSON RECOMMENDED (Last, First, Middle)
   MCCORD, James W., Jr.

Personal Data

2. POSITION Engr-Audio Supt. 3. GRADE 15 4. SD SS

5. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT OS/Technical Division 6. X HEADQUARTERS STATION FIELD (Specify location)

7. HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, Zone, State) 8. OFFICE EXT.(If hqs.) 9. CITIZENSHIP AND HOW ACQUIRED
   6801 Floyd Ave., Springfield, Va. 4192 U. S. - Birth

10. RECOMMENDED AWARD
    Certificate of Distinction

11. POSTHUMOUS
    YES X NO

12. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN 13. RELATIONSHIP 14. HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, Zone, State) 15. HOME PHONE
    Sarah Ruth McCord Wife Same as 7 451-5279

## Section B Recommendation for Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard

16. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT YES NO

Personnel in immediate vicinity or who assisted in act or shared in same hazard:

17. FULL NAME 18. ORGN. TITLE 19. GRADE 20. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

List any of the above persons given an award or recommended for award for participating in act:

21. FULL NAME 22. TYPE OF AWARD

Conditions under which act was performed:

23. LOCATION 24. INCLUSIVE DATES 25. TIME OF DAY

26. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

## Section C Recommendation for Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance

27. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE X YES NO

28. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE
    Chief, Technical Division, OS

29. COMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location)
    Headquarters

30. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES

Supervises the activities of the Technical Division, OS

Personnel who assisted or contributed substantially to the service or performance

31. FULL NAME 32. ORGN. TITLE 33. GRADE 34. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT
    MARCY, William M. Elec. Engr. 10 OS/Technical Division
    PETIT, Alan F. Elec. Engr. 13 OS/Technical Division

List any of the above persons given an award or recommended for award for participating in the performance

35. FULL NAME 36. TYPE OF AWARD
    MARCY, William M. Certificate of Distinction
    PETIT, Alan F.

37. INCLUSIVE DATES FOR WHICH RECOMMENDED 38. ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED 39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT
    YES NO YES NO

FORM 11.63 600 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

Section D
Narrative Description

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than nor- mally expected. Explain, why, and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individ- ual, and all unusual circumstances. Indicate results of the act.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended. (Give complete de- scription of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assign- ment and relief.) What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other per- sons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include refer- ence to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation.

40. 
From early December 1965 through May 1966, Messrs. James W. McCord, Jr., Alan F. Petit, and William M. Marcy, of the Technical Division, Office of Security, spent many off-duty hours in experimentation with various items of equipment in an effort to improve and strengthen the Agency's Audio-cntermeasures Program.24 They conceived and developed a unique techr in (fluoroscopic scanning) which is considered to be a major breakthrough in the detection of clandestine microphones and other devices targeted against the Agency. It gives the Agency for 24 the first time the capability to detect hidden technical listening devices a capability for which the intelligence community has expended large sums of money to develop in a variety of approaches. This tech- nique will not only benefit the security of all Agency installations at home and abroad, but will be of utmost benefit to other agencies in the community. This technique was met with wide acclaim by the intelligence community and the Technical Security Countermeasures Committee.

In experimenting with the X-ray in combination with a fluoroscopic screen, these men showed this combination had distinct advantages in terms of time and effort over the considerably more expensive X-ray 24 film and processor. In further refinement of this technique, they designed an innovation in the form of afluoroscopic cloth which has the distinct advantage of flexibility over the fluorescent screens) 24 currently available on the commercial market.

[X] CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

41. ENCLOSURES (List individually) If orginator is not an eyewitness or does not have personal knowledge of the act or performance, attach affidavits of eyewitness or individuals having personal knowledge of the facts.

1. PROPOSED CITATION

2. 
3. 
42. RECOMMENDATION INITIATED BY

Ermal P. Geiss

43. TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL MAKING RECOMMENDATION

Deputy Director of Security (PTOS)

44. DATE

7/28/66

Section E Recommendation Forwarded Through Officials Concerned For Their Information

45. 
Head of

Career Service

SS

(Career service of nominee)

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

Acting Director of Security

DATE

7/29/66

46. 
Deputy Director of Operating Component

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

DATE

47. 
Deputy Director of Career Service

TITLE AND SIGNER. L. Bannerman

Deputy Director for Support

DATE

3 AUG 1965

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

fection D Continued - James W. McCord, Jr.

To further enhance the use of this equipment, these men developed an inconspicuous, easily transportable package, consisting of two attache cases which hold the (x-ray fluoro-24. scopic equipment, wall racks, and motor units. This makes it possible for an audio-countermeasures team to enter offices, residences, and safehouses without undue attention.

These men have shown great ingenuity and resourcefulness in the application and development of this audio-countermeasure technique. Through their further efforts in package design they contributed significantly to the future clandestine use of this technique on a world-wide basis. This technique provides the Agency for the first time a procedure through which large interior wall surfaces, room furnishings, and objects can be rapidly scanned in "real time" in the search for hostile technical penetrations. This capability will significantly enhance the security of all Agency installations.

# SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)