# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

9 September 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FI/Division D

SUBJECT: ZRGRACE - Tokyo Aspect;
George PERIS aka George PERISTEROPOULOS aka
George PARIS, Identified Contact of Valentin HAHN
aka Valentine Vasiliyevich KHAN aka Won-shin HAN,
Self Confessed Soviet Agent

1. Following information was made available to the writer by V lentia HAHN. The information herein reported was provided by oral brief- ing only, and the writer was not permitted to review the HAHN file itself. Following details are therefore based entirely on notes taken during the meeting which took place in CARRICO's office on 6 September.

2. Valentin HAHN, who was born as Valentine Vasiliyevich KHAN on 22 April 1908, Slavyanka, Russia, and who is a Russian of Korean origin, admitted in the course of a Polygraph examination administered on an unspecified date, that he had acted at an agent in behalf of the Soviets. HAHN has been in the employ of CIA since approximately 1952, originally in Seoul, Korea, later in Tokyo, Japan, subsequently being transferred to Okinawa. He was terminated on unspecified date as a contract agent of the SR Division, and currently is or has been resettled in Hokkaido, where he has been given a job as a translator with the FBIS listening post at Sapporo, Hokkaido, Japan. During the debriefing which accompanied his Polygraph testing, HAHN advised that during his service in Tokyo, Japan, his closest associates had been the following individuals in the order listed:

a. Arseniy YANKOVSKY and wife.

b. Basil EFREMOFF - CIA Staff Employee of Tokyo Station, who has been terminated on unknown date. He was identified as a Japanese Intelligence agent.

c. John Mc COY and wife - Mc COY was or still is an employee of SR Division, stationed in Japan.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

d. Vadim MEDISH - CIA Contract Agent in employ of SR Division stationed in Tokyo. In process of being terminated after identification as former NKVD agent, a former Abwehr agent, and subsequent agent activity in behalf of the Soviets while in DP camps.

e. Kazua KANAZAWA - Cousin of Valentin HAHN; at one time was proposed for operational use by this Agency.

f. Charlotte BERGHOLTZ - Close friend of Anastasiya SNOW neo YANKOVSKIY.

g. Golli-Grigorevna and Marguerita PODSTAVINA - PODSTAVINA is the Godmother of Arseniy YANKOVSKIY.

h. Nicholas - CIA mail employee of SR Division in Tokyo under Department of State cover. Former FBI employee.

i. George PARIS (Spelling as picked up originally by Office of Security in written report of Polygraph examination report, and therefore likely phonetic.) - Greek businessman in Tokyo.

3. In the course of further debriefing in connection with his Polygraph Test, HAHN claimed that George PERIS or PARIS was the individual who had introduced HAHN to a club in Tokyo located off the Ginza, the name of which club translated into English is "Tomorrow is Too Late". At this club HAHN met a Japanese hostess by the name of Noriko AWAJL whose real name was later established to be Noriko MATSUZAKAYA whom he subsequently dated. There is no further information currently available on this hostess. In the interim, HAHN has obtained a divorce from his wife, who had been a witting participant in his agent activities for the Soviets, and is known currently to be living in a common-law relationship with a Japanese girl who may be identical with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA. As indicated above, HAHN and his current mistress are currently in Sapporo, Hokkaido.

4. The ex-wife of Valentin HAHN, whose full name is not known to the writer, and the two HAHN sons, are currently being sponsored for resettlement by the Agency in the United States, where all three are scheduled to receive their U.S. citizenship under CIA sponsorship.

5. With reference to the "Tomorrow is Too Late" Club, HAHN stated that a number of CIA Staff Employees of the Tokyo Station frequent or have frequented this establishment and have dated the Japanese hostesses employed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

there. Date of HAHN's introduction to the Club and to Horiko MATSUZAKAYA by George PARIS aka George PERIS was estimated by Mr. Sayle to have been somewhere between 1954 and 1957. With regard to Valentin HAHN's own inclinations toward sharing his knowledge of romance with others, Mr. Sayle advised that Security Mfice had established that while employed as a contract agent of the Tokyo Station HAHN had pimped for CIA Staff personnel in Tokyo.

6. As attachment herewith, the writer appends additional background data on the professional intelligence activities and contacts of Valentin HAHN and family as noted during the oral briefing by Sayle.

7. On basis of the above, it can be safely assumed that the George PARIS known to HAHN is identical with George PERISTEROPOULOS aka George PERIS, well-known Tokyo businessman and Honorary Deputy Consul of the Royal Greek Consulate in Yokohama, Japan, as reported in SCTCKY-63 and SCTOKY-64. It is noteworthy that PERIS' contacts throughout his career. commencing v'in his original reported employment in Tientsin, China, through his activities and contacts in Shanghai, China, and later in Tokyo, not exclud- ing his marriage to Aurelia CZERWINSKA, have been exclusively with individuals of Russian or Eastern European background, many of them of Russian Jewish background, who are either highly suspect or have been iden- tified as long-time agents of Soviet Intelligence. PERIS' reported route of arrival in Tokyo via Harbin, Tientsin and Shanghai, as well as his employ- ment by Sondovich Brothers and.contacts with individuals who tie in with the Boris SOLOMONIK complex and Borsol Fur Trading Corporation, smacke very strongly of the old Comintern Apparat of the 20's and 30's. Also it parallels the travel patterns of a number of individuals involved in the SOBLE case, principally the SOBLES themselves who were exfiltrated from the Soviet Union via Tokyo, Japan, to the U.S.A. and who, most notably of all, also were under cover of operating a Bristie Business as is Sondovich Brothers.

8. According to earlier reporting in the ZRGRACE investigation, George PERIS is alleged to have been a contact of William Hamilton MARTIN in Tokyo, and to have offered MARTIN some type of job or business partner- ship deal in connection with the rug business.

9. Mr. Carrico informally indicated that he personally suspects that MARTIN's introduction to the fine art of masochistic torture by an unidenti- fied Japanese female, as reported by Mrs. Ardelle GASDA to FBI agents, may have been effected at or through his patronage of the Tomorrow is Too Late" Club to which he may well have been taken or introduced by his friend PERIS. This possibility, however, is subject to further investigation.

10. As initial follow-up to SCTORY-63 and SCTORY 64, outgoing cable of 7 Sept. 60 requesting further check-out of the Club, etc. was prepared.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

A second cable to be sent by Privacy Link to Seoul, Korea, has also been drafted, and requests check of PERIS' arrival, activities and contacts, departure from Korea subsequent to 28 January 1960. This cable has been presented separately for your approval and may likely be subject to revision, wierefore no copy is attached. It is further suggested that Office of Security be authorized to pass to NSA Security Officials working on this case the information on PERIS relayed in above SCTOKY Cables, such information to be properly sterilized of course, and that NSA in turn be requested to check and obtain from U.S. Navy Personnel Records fuil copies in duplicate of the onginal reports on the specific duty stations or assignments, including dates of service at each, to which MARTIN and MITCHELL were detailed, also detailed leave records, travel records, and other pertinent background data contained in such files, to cover the entire period of their respective service with the U.S. Navy. It is also suggested that NSA officials be requested to obtain similar detailed original reports in duplicate from the Department of wow the period of MARTIN'S civilian employment in Japan, with special emphasis on any reports of MARTIN's extra-curricular activities, contacts, club memberships, identified personal contacts with persons not employed in his own office, leave travel, etc., which may be reflected in official records. One copy of all such reports are requested for this Agency, to permit further checking of known or newly identified contacts he may have had in Japan.

ANITA POTOCKI

1 Attachment: as stated

FI/D/AP:mem

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - ZRGRACE File
1 - MARTIN 201 file
1- PERIS file
1 - chrono

SECRET
EYES ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)