# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: LYNCH; CXAYSON
DCD FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED         | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| --------------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 22A2628 2:15<br>6pm.. | SAME          | PAT ORR                  | *Illegible Signature*           |
| 22 aug 78             | SAME          | JAMES P. KELLY           | James P. Kelly                  |
|                       |               |                          |                                 |
|                       |               |                          |                                 |
|                       |               |                          |                                 |
|                       |               |                          |                                 |
|                       |               |                          |                                 |
|                       |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

GRAYSTON LYNCH

8709 Bay Point Drive
Tampa, Florida

A-19-44-0

BUSINESS:

Subject is a retired CIA employee.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

DCD-399/78
10 April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS
FROM : Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO
SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
Request (OLC 78-1035)

1. I have searched DCD's records on the individuals
   listed in subject request with the following results:

a. Carlos Quiroga - negative

b. Pedro Diaz Lanz - Two documents for your
retention. Please note that the teletype of
6 February 1977 also includes the names of several
other individuals of interest to the committee.

c. Roland Masferrer - File A-16-88-46 on loan
and documents for retention. (Masferrer is a subject
of a recent FOIA request, F-77-260.)

d. Manolo Rey - DCD case 42315 on loan (also
contains references to Manuel Artime). Retention
copies of additional documents also included.

e. Antonio Cuesta Valle - Documents for retention.

f. Antonio Veciana - Documents for retention
(please note that the documents also contain references
to Antonio Cuesta Valle).

g. Edward L. Freers - negative

h. Mrs. G. Stanley Brown - negative

i. David E. Murphy - negative

j. Aline Mosby - Documents for retention.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 386090

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL
DCD-399/78
10 April 1978

SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations Request
(OLC 78-1055)

k. Abraham Isaac Goldberg - One document for retention.

m. Robert J. Korengold - negative

n. Marita Lorenz - File A-20-44-72 on loan.
Please note that Ms. Lorenz recently filed a request under the Privacy Act (P-77-2794).

o. Evelio Alpizar Perez - Documents for retention.

p. Antonio Soto Vazque - negative

2. With regard to the four names listed together on page two of subject memorandum, I am forwarding documents dealing with Justin McCarthy and a Robert M. Moore. It is uncertain whether or not these individuals are the ones of interest to the HSCA (our files contain references to at least 15 other individuals named Robert Moore; without considerable additional information, we cannot make any positive identification). I am forwarding, on loan, our file on Grayson Lynch (A-19-44-94). You may wish to consult with DCD later with regard to releasing this individual from his obligation of secrecy.

![signature of Ruth Elliff]
Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:wfc
Distribution

0 - Addressee
1 - DCD Chrono
1 - Staff A
3 - RElliff
5 - Control


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

19-44-94

27 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Grayston Lynch, ex-BKHERALD Staff Employee

A194494

1. John Greaney called on 26 February to advise that in his judgment DCD's roll in this matter is finished. Greaney has sent this material to John Kennedy, NARCOG, who has advised John Werner, Drug Enforcement Agency, who will contact Lynch directly.

2. Mr. Greaney has contacted Lynch directly and notified him that Mr. Werner will be calling him. We, therefore, see no further action by DCD in this matter, and Mr. Knaysi has been so advised.

![signature of E. H. WATTS]

E. H. WATTS
Deputy Chief of Operations, DCD.

EHW:jt

Distribution:
Orig. - OC/DCD Chrono
- 1 - Control

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 018877


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76

14 January 1976

ATTN:
Chief, Domestic Collection Division
Deputy Chief of Operations-(Watts)
Chief, Miami Field Office

IDEN A, ex-BKHERALD Staff Employee.

1.  We met with IDEN A, a retired BKHERALD staff employee, on 7 January 1976 at his home in Tampa, Florida. IDEN A had requested the meeting through contact with an attorney in IDEN B. IDEN A spoke for several hours about his life since retirement in 1971. What follows is a long summation of his comments, and at the memo's conclusion his reasons for bringing this situation to our attention. (Forwarded under Separate Cover).

2.  IDEN A, who had a major role in the Bay of Pigs activities, and who was associated with JMHAVE during the period 1961-68, has maintained many contacts within the Cuban community in Florida. LNCOLLAR, which was aware of the involvement of some ex-BKHERALD assets (Cubans) in the drug importation business, had been unable to penetrate this group in the period to late 1973. IDEN A, in the meantime, had moved to Key West, Florida, purchased a lobster fishing boat and equipment, and become a respected member of the community.

3.  In late 1973, a former BKHERALD asset (AMTABY Project) who had been terminated in 1963, IDEN C, came to IDEN A in Key West, claimed he had escaped from jail in Cuba in 1970 (where he had been jailed for drug running between Cuba and WODUAL), and said he had information on drug traffic. He asked IDEN A to contact someone in LNCOLLAR and indicate IDÈN C's willingness to be of assistance. IDEN A replied he was retired and could not help. A few months later, IDEN D (ANTASY-27), another former asset, flew to Key West from Miami. He met IDEN A and informed him LNCOLLAR had sent him down to check on IDEN C. IDEN D identified his LNCOLLAR contact as IDEN E, an ex-BKHERALD asset and former BKHERALD contract employee. At about this time IDEN F, a former BKHERALD staff employee, moved to Key West and informed IDEN A that LNCOLLAR was being staffed with BKHERALD employees in its Intelligence Division, and that the leader of the division was IDEN G, another ERMERALD staffer.

4.  A few months later, IDEN A received a call from IDEN H, another BEHERALD retirea, who asked about IDEN A's access to boats IDEN H wished to purchase for a relative of his wife, the relative residing in Venezuela. He photographed every boat in the Key West harbor, and it was apparent to IDEN A he was LNCCLEAR-involved. Later, IDEN F approached IDEN A and said

22 IMPDET CL BY 011668

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

NFL-002-75
PAGE 2

two EKIDRALD paupio in Filand wanted to meet with IDEN A. IDEN A agreed
to a meeting, and IDEN F introduced IDEN I and IDEN E. IDEN A know-
IDEN I, but was aware of IDE E only by reputation, which was unsavory.
IDEN E claimed to be a BKHERALD employee, as did IDEN I. IDEN A, of
course, knew otherwise, but said nothing. In March 1974, IDEN A got a
call from IDEN J of the IDEN K, Miami. He was an ex-EKHERALD officer,
and he said IDEN C wished to speak with IDEN A in Miami on an urgent
basis.

5. IDEN G told IDEN A that he wanted the latter to work for LNCOLLAR
   to establish intelligence networks in the Cuban community in Key West. He
   said no one else could do it, and he promised to provide at the start
   US$100/week plus expenses plus money to pay IDEN A's agents. He said
   this money would not be reportable as income. When IDEN A asked about
   the effect of his own ex-BKHERALD status, IDEN G replied 3KHERALD does
   not want or need to know of this arrangement. IDEN G acknowledged that
   US$100/week was a small payment, but said any information resulting in a
   seizure of drugs, the arrest of drug traffickers, or damage to drug rings
   will be assessed by a board within LNCOLLAR, and money (thousands of
   dollars) rewarded for this assistance. IDEN A would then be free to split
   the money with his agents. IDEN J, who was at the meeting, added that
   within a year IDEN A should be able to afford the best and largest lobster
   boat available.

6. IDEN G and IDEN J impressed IDEN A with the dangerous nature
   of his assignment. They stressed cover as the most important consideration,
   and IDEN G said, "I don't want to go to any more funerals". They added
   that if IDEN A got into trouble, there were 150 LNCOLLAR agents in Miami
   who would come to his aid instantly. IDEN A was given emergency telephone
   numbers and code names, and was told LNCOLLAR would arrange for his
   airlift out (through the LNTUCK Aar Station) if needed. If his LNCOLLAR
   affiliation was blown, IDEN G said there would be compensation provided
   up to US$40 thousand, as well as relocation assistance. The relocation
   assistance was not specified, but IDEN A assumed this meant six months
   living expenses and assistance in job search activities, as well as
   reimbursement for moving expenses. IDEN J and IDEN L, another ex-BKHERALD
   official, were to come to Key West one week later to brief IDEN A on the
   local situation. In the meantime, IDEN A was to prepare a report on what
   he knew about drug traffickers in the Key West area. Two weeks later,
   the two did appear in Key West. The little they knew about Key West drug
   activities was included in IDEN A's report, which also contained much
   additional data.

7. IDEN A subsequently set up an intelligence net, and began serding
   back reports. IDEN A was frequently summoned to Miami for meetings with
   IDEN G. Often these meetings were a waste of time, and on occasion IDEN G


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

NFL-002-76
PAGE 3.

would not even show up. At one point IDEN J asked IDE A to write a paper on-the-capability of ex-BKHERALD assets who were drug traffickers, and who had been trained in infiltration and exfiltration, to penetrate WODUAL coastal defenses with drugs. IDEN A showed how the assets could circumvent any government effort to stop the drug traffic. The paper "scared LNCOLLAR to death," according to IDEN A. At the end of June 1974, IDEN J asked IDEN A to journey to Washington to brief top LNCOLLAR officiala on his conclusions. It was to be an all expense paid trip, and IDEN A flew up and stayed one week. Total remuneration received for the journey was only US$150. During the week, IDEN A had many meetings with LDEN G and his deputy, IDEN M, a former IDEN N staff employee. IDEN G indicated at that time he was impressed with IDEN A's reports and access in Key West.

8. Leter, IDEN A cold IDEN G he had sent lots of reports, but there. had been no arrests, and therefore no bonuses. IDEN A said he would no longer work for just US$100/week. IDEN G replied he might be able to maka IDEN A a LNCOLLAR consultant to protect his retired status. Ile also promised IDEN A a large lobster boat (taken from those confiscated in LHCOLLAR raids), and an additional US$500/month to meet expenses and agent payoffs. IDEN C also spoke of using. IDEN A in LNCOLLAR activities in Jamaica and South America. Nothing ever was forthcoming on ary of these matters. During this period, IDEN A also provided LNCOLLAR (at its requesc) with the names of potential sources of information in the Miami area. Several persons were approached by LNCOLLAR using IDEN A's name, and a number of former BKHERALD assets were picked up in this manner. Included in this group are IDEN O, IDEN P, and IDEN Q.

9. In May 1974, IDEN F came to IDEN A at a party and, while drunk, said he had heard IDEN G wanted to recruit IDEN A for LNCOLLAR activities. In June he made similar comments while at another social gathering. IDEN A mada no coment (other than requesting that IDEN F shut up). When IDEN A was recruited by IDEN G and IDEN J, they had made quite a point of saying only they would be aware of IDEN A's LNCOLLAR ties. Later in June 1974, IDEN F said he knew IDEN A was working with INCOLLAR. In July 1974, IDEN G said he did not like having IDEN L, who was IDEN A's handling officer in Miami, dealing with him since IDEN L was known to be an LNCOLLAR officer. IDEN G wanted to have IDEN A deal directly with him in Washington, but IDEN A objected, saying the arrangement was too cumbersome. In late July, IDEN G introduced IDEN A to his new contact, IDEN I.

10. In November 1974, it became apparent the drug ring in Key West on which IVEN A's group was reporting was becoming spooked and overly cautious. Through several of his agents IDEN A learned this resulted


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

NFL-002-76
PAGE &

from a direct approach to the violators by LNCOLLAR officer IDES E. vho had come to Kay West unbeknownst to DEN A. Through friends is Miami IDEN A found out IDEN E was in charge of IDSN A's operation in Key West, had a homosexual relationship with IOEN F which went back for many yeara (and was responsible for the breakup of IDEN E's first marriage). had big real estate deals going in Miami, had a Swiss bank account, and was still using 8KHERALD cover in Miami.

11. IDEN P, who was aware of EDEN I's INCOLLAR connection, and two other LNCOLLAR assets in the Miani area. had agreed to assist INDULIAR only if LNCOLLAR officials could guarantee LDEN E would never know of their relationship or see any of their informant reports. IDEN I arranged for this through IDEN G, and the three agents' files were placed in IDEN N's safe. IDEN A subsequently has learned IDEN E routinaly ssy ail of IDAN P's raporta. Later, when the revelations in the preceding paragraph were known, IDEN I told IDEN A there were many allegations about IDEN E, and that he had mentioned this to DEN G. IDEN Ghad assered hin he would be brought to Washington to discuss the matter, but nothing ever came of it. Ironically, IDEN E was taken into LNCOLLAR on the orders of LECOLLAR Director IDEN R, and it was specified that no clearance or background check would be undertaken on him.

12. IDEN I and IDEN A decided to approach IDEN F to learn more about IDEN E. During a one hour discussion, MEN F said he had been appointed the recruiting officer within BKHERALD for persons who wou'd go to LNCOLLAR. IDEN F said he had known IDEN E for a long period of time, and had brought him along in BKHERALD hierarchy. IDEN A believes IDEN F also engineered the absence of a security check on IDEN Z by LACCLLAR since he did not want his homosexual relationship with IDEN E revealed. At that point IDEN A called IDEN G and filled him in on what had been learned, including IDEN F's admission that IDEN E had told him IDEN A was an LNCOLLAR asset. IDEN G denied knowing IDEN F, but said he would check on IDEN E. IDEN A met with DEN G the next day in Miami to fill him in further, and IDEN G ordered a full investigation. In the meantime, IDEN 7 told DEN E of his meeting with IDEN I and IDEN A, and IDEN E wrote a nemorandum saying a fellow LYCOLLAR officer (IDEN I) had over- stepped the bounds of propriety in his relationship with an LNCOLLAR asset (IDEN A), and that IDEN I and IDE A were ruaning an investigation on IDEN E. IDEN E described the situation as "intolerable". The LACOLLAR inquiry, then, turned from IDEN È to improper actions by IDEN I in discussing an LNCOLLAR employee with an asset. The Internal Affairs section of LNCOLLAR did continue the IDEN E probe and concluded by May 1975 that the charges against IDEN & were accurate. In the meantime, IDEN I was interrogated by IDEN M on his relationship with IDEN A.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

NFL-002-76
PAGE 5

13. In August 1975, Iuen C informed IDEN A that control of his operation was being transferred to the Miami regional office, and that his financial relationship with LINCOLLAR would be terminated and then re-established locally following 1 September 1975. On 9 September 1975, a state-federal task force arrested 39 persons in Key West. IDEN A know nothing about the arrests in advance. He called IDEN G to find out what was happening, and IDEN C said he also was unaware of them. He asked IDEN A to continua reporting on these developments. The next day IDEN A met with a source who told him someone had blown IDEN A'S LNCOLLAR affiliation to the drug ring. He described the leak as coming from an ex-BKHERALD officer who hated IDEN A. IDEN A's source, who was in touch with drug ring members, told IDEN A the codename of his LNCOLLAR operation (IWEN S), and IDEN A. learned IDEN F had spread this word all over town. IDEN A subsequently received telephone death threats (one of the ring member's girl friend called to tell him a white LNCOLLAR informant (IDEN A) would not get out of town alive). There had been eight informant deaths in Monroe County (Key West) in 1975, all unsolved murders. There was every reason, then, to take the threats seriously. IDEN A informed LNCOLLAR about the threats. LNCOLLAR replied that IDEN A was pushing the panic button, and askol for more information. IDEN A requested that the emergency evacuation apparatus be used, but LNCOLLAR refused. Finally, LNCOLLAR said "We don't know what you expect us to do since you've been terminated". IDEN A, who had been terminated by LNCOLLAR/Washington, had not been picked up subsequently by the Miami Regional Office.

14. IDEN A, desiring to keep a low profile, could not talk to many of his agents in Key West, but the fow he did reach were expecting a portion of the reward money since the ring that was rolled up was one the agents had reported on for many months. IDEN A checked with LNCOLLAR on this, and was informed his net's information was not used as the basis for the arrests. IDEN A learned that IDEN F had passed the word around Key west that IDEN A was not an LNCOLLAR staff employee, which made DEN A fair game for removal. He also learned plans had been made locally for his murder. At that point, IDEN A then made his escape with his wife. In Miami, he mot with DEN M. IDEN H claimed IDEN E had not caused any of the problems IDEN A had experienced. Concerning money assurances, IDEN M first denied any promises had been made. Later he said any that had been made (by IDEN G) were unauthorized. He reiterated IDEN A's reporting, although accurate, was not used in the arrests. LNCOLLAR agreed to provide IDEN A with US$1800 for all his problems, and raised the sum later to US$3 thousand. IDEN A accepted the money, but did not indicate he was satisfied with this sum.

15. IWEI A snuck back into Key West and packed his household goods in one evening. liis boat was given to a fish supply house to sell. Sinca he owed the company money for supplies he had purchased, the rish house


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

NFL-002-76
PAGE 6

sold the boat for a sum equal to his debts. IDEN A's wife quit her job
without notice, and he estimates his actual financial losses are
US$25 thousand. LUNCOLLAR has indicated the US$3 thousand paywant is
"all IDEN A will get", and he is determined to get more.

16. IDEN A believes many of his agents think he did receive a payoff
    from LNCOLLAR following the arrests, and that he took all the money and
    ran, leaving then axposol in Key West. The cars of two of his agents
    were burned, and IDEN D, IDEN P. and others in the Miami area quit working
    for LNCOLLAR when they learned of the treatment he had received and/or
    received death threats themselves. IDENT. As a result, IDEN A cannot
    return to Key Wost, and his lobster business no longer exists.

17. The purpose of IDEN A's contacting the BKHERALD is first to
    let us know what has happened to many of its former employees and assets.
    IDEN A believes BKHERALD should know of the false provises that were used
    to lure some BKHERALD employees to work at LNCOLLAR. As documentation,
    he provided IDEN l'a grievance letter to LNCOLLAR which is attached*and
    for retention. IDEN I has, incidentally, been taken out of the Intelligence
    Division of LACOLLAR and placed in enforcement work in Miami. IDEN I
    is currently seeking to return to BKHERALD employment, and IDEN A says
    IDEN I will verify his statements on the treatment of BKHERALD personnel
    who transferred to COLLAR. (IDEN I's home phone in Miami is WEN I.)
    Ho and the other ex-BKHERALD employees working at a lower level ara fed
    up with LNCOLLAR, and are convinced they will never receive fair treatment
    in that organization. Since IDEN A believes the recruitment of BKHERALD
    officers to switch to LNCOLLAR will be a continuing thing, he feels we
    should know the realities of life in LNCOLLAR.

18. In addition, he notes LNCOLLAR is using many retirel BKHERALD
    people and former BKHERALD assets in its activities. IDEN A believes
    these persons, in many instances, are being both used and abused. Any
    flap which occurs as a result of LNCOLLAR mismanagement will bounce
    back on BRIERALD, since it appears BKHERALD is involved in the LICOLLAR
    operation. Indeed, IDEN G has given the impression his activities have
    been cleared with and approved by BKHERALD, Those assets who are being
    turned off by LNCOLLAR mismanagement are going to be lost to BEHERALD es
    well as to LNCOLLAR. Some of these persons could be significant asseis
    14 years to come.

19. A flap may not be so far off. In recent weeks IDEN U, whe 18
    writing a book about the role of the Cubans IDEN V and IDEN W in the
    IDEN X affair, called IDEN A and said he has information that IDEN G's
    wife and IDEN Y's business manager made a trip to Florida recently.
    Also IDEN U said he hae learned that a former BKMERALD man who is a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# NFL-C02-76 PAGE 7

LNCOLLAR agent is a homosexual, and that US$15 thousand in LNCOLLAR funds were given to someone in Mizal to bail out a Puerto Rican drug dealer. The investigation of DE 2 by LACOLLAR internal affairs did reveal, according to IDEN A, that US$15 thousand could not be accounted for by IDEN E, whose career appears to have been unaffected by the invesicgatiou. IDEN U, who obviously has a source within LNCOLLAR, also told IDEN A about many of the individuals (by name) in LACOLLAR who are formerly BKHERALD employees.

20. IDEN U's information appears to be accurate, according to IDEN A, who recalls receiving a telephone call from IDEN G in July 1975. IDEN G vas agitated, and asked IDEN A co handle a matter for him quickly and quietly. He said his wife, children, and the business agent of IDEN Y were in Key West, and were supposed to stay in the apartment of a retired' BKHERALD employee named IDEN Z (formerly with IDEN AA). IDEN Z, a friend of IDEN F, had left the area and gave his apartment, key to IDEN F. When IDEN C's wife and the others arrived in Key West, theyccould not locate IDEN F to get the koy. IDEN C asked IDEN A to find out what they were doing, "and just how far my neck is stuck out". IDEN A learned they had checked into a local motel. He called IDEM G and passed on this information. IDEN G was relieved, but asked IDEN & to keep an eye on them and report their movements to him. Subsequently, while on a trip to Miami, IDEN A was approached by an LNCOLLAR officer in Internal Affairs. This individual said the episode was under active investigation, and asked IDEN A what he knew noout it.

21. Finally, IDEN A is giving SXHERALD an opportunity to provide whatever advica, guidance, and assistance it wishes to furnish before he takes further action to obtain just compensation from LNCOLLAR. He is thinking in terms of possible BKKERALD intervention on his behalf with INCOLLAR. He recognizes AKAZRALD may wish to let him fend for himself. In that event, he plans to approach IDEN ÈB in Taspa to reveal the above story, and seak IDEN 83's assistance in petitioning LNCOLLAR fof financial relief. He will not take any action with IDEN B8 until he has heard from BEKHERALD. Since be is anxious to get startad on this matter, a speedy reply to his request for assistance will be appreciated.

22. IDEN A, incidentally, has docided to remain in Tampa, and has obtained a job as chief investigator for a local private security service. We indicated a reply would be forthcoming either through us or directly to IDEN A. His phone number is IDEN A. He resides at IDEN A.

BJknaysi:paw

Separate Cover Attachment to Follow

BRUCE E. MAINHARISG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

CONFIDENTIAL 1614732 JAN 76 STAFF

CITE SCO/MIAMI 13276

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: DEPUTY CHIEF OF OPERATIONS (RATES)

SUBJ: IDENTITIES IN NFL-APR-76 DATED 14 JANUARY 1976 FORWARDED
IN POUCH NO. 234

IDEN A - GRAY GIL LYNCH, 8739 BAY POINT DRIVE, TAMPA, FLORIDA
PHONE NUMBER: 813-884-6610

IDEN B - OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNCIL

IDEN C - GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ

IDEN D - AVADO CANTILLO A182529

IDEN E - ROBERT MEDELLL

IDEN F - GEORGE SOIL (NICKNAME "JERRY")

IDEN G - LUCISA COSTEL

IDEN H - DEDICI MATICH

IDEN I - GARY HATTOCKS, PHONE NUMBER 279-0945

IDEN J - WILLIAM LOGAYC

IDEN K - DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

IDEN L - MIKE BRUN

IDEN M - LOU FRAYS

IDEN N - BUREAU OF NARCOTICS

IDEN O - RAFAEL GARCIA

IDEN P - GONZALO HERRERA A86956

IDEN Q - JULIO PESTOSTI

IDEN R - DACKSAIL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# PAGE 2 DEO/MIAMI 13376
IDEA S - (GRAY GHOST)

IDEA I - THE DRUG RING THAT WAS ROLLED UP WAS A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR OPERATION. THE GROUP HAD A COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE BUDGET OF ABOUT US$ONE MILLION ANNUALLY, AND-INCLUDED (EITHER AS ACTIVE RING MEMBERS OR KNOWING OF ITS ACTIVITIES) THE SON OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE IN KEY WEST, THE STATE'S ATTORNEY, THE SHERIFF AND CHIEF OF POLICE, THREE MEMBERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL, THE ENTIRE POLICE DEPARTMENT, OVER HALF OF THE SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT, THE FIRE CHIEF, AND VARIOUS CITY AND COUNTY OFFICIALS. THE RING ALSO RAN THE PROSTITUTION, MURDERS, AND THEFT RINGS IN THE AREA. WHILE SOME OF THESE PERSONS WERE ARRESTED (THE FIRE CHIEF, FOR ONE), OTHERS WERE NOT, AND ALL ARE FREE ON BAIL AT THIS TIME.

IDEN U - GEORGE CRILE

IDEN V - GERHARD L. BARKER A181871

IDEN W - EUGENIO R. MARTINEZ A181872

IDEN X - WATERGATE

IDEN Y - MADAM NHU

IDEN Z - RALPH JOHNSON A194000

IDEN AA - VNQ

IDEN BB - CONGRESSMAN SAM GIBBONS E2 IMPDET CL BY 011663

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

ORIGINATOR AND FIELD NO.
Knaysi/NFL 2-76

XX DIVISION SOURCE AND CHRONO
SUBJGAT FILES AND CHRONO, FILE

SUBJECT
Memo: Grayston Lynch, ex-BKHARALD Staff Employee

DATE OF MATERIAL CLASSIFICATION
14 Jan Conf

DATE RECEIVED
16. Jan 76

19-44-94

| ROUTING      | DATE   | INITIALS | REMARKS                                                |
| ------------ | ------ | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. Mr. Watts | 4 Fet  | WW       | 20 76: Jelun, has passed to Jelun Kennedy-l'ARCO is in |
| 2. Claps     |        |          | will inform DEA, in                                    |
| 3. C/DCD     |        |          |                                                        |
| 4. Jeane     | 27 Fet | jt       | JOHN Greaney's Kew, it belongs.                        |
| 5.           |        |          |                                                        |
| 6.           |        |          | When he hears DEA We will inform Lynch,                |
| 7.           |        |          |                                                        |
| 8. Central   | 3/2    | PC       |                                                        |

FILES DISPOSITION

FILE THIS COPY WITH DOCUMENT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76

DATE: 14 January 1976

TO : Chief, Domestic Collection Division

ATTN : Deputy Chief of Operations (Watts)

FROM : Chief, Miami Field Office

SUBJECT: IDEN A, ex-BKHERALD Staff Employee

1. We met with IDEN A, a retired BKHERALD staff employee, on 7 January 1976 at his home in Tampa, Florida. IDEN A had requested the meeting through contact with an attorney in IDEN B. IDEN A spoke for several hours about his life since retirement in 1971. What follows is a long summation of his comments, and at the mero's conclusion his reasons for bringing this situation to our attention. [Forwarded under Separate Cover].

2. IDEN A, who had a major role in the Bay of Pigs activities, and who was associated with JMWAVE during the period 1961-68, has maintained many contacts within the Cuban community in Florida. LNCOLLAR, which was aware of the involvement of some ex-BKHERALD assets (Cubans) in the drug importation business, had been unable to penetrate this group in the period to late 1973. IDEN A, in the meantime, had moved to Key West, Florida, purchased a lobster fishing boat and equipment, and become a respected member of the community.

3. In late 1973, a former BKHERALD asset (AMTABY Project) who had been terminated in 1963, IDEN C, came to IDEN A in Key West, claimed he had escaped from jail in Cuba in 1970 (where he had been jailed for drug running between Cuba and WODUAL), and said he had information on drug traffic. He asked IDEN. A to contact someone in LNCOLLAR and indicate IDEN C's willingness to be of assistance. IDEN A replied he was retired and could not help. A few months later, IDEN D (AMTABY-27), another former asset, flew to Key West from Miami. He met IDEN A and informed him LNCOLLAR had sent him down to check on IDEN C. IDEN D identified his LNCOLLAR contact as IDEN E, an ex-BKHERALD asset and former BKHERALD contract employee. At about this time IDEN F, a former BKHERALD staff employee, moved to Key West and informed IDEN A that LNCOLLAR was being staffed with BKHERAID employees in its Intelligence Division, and that the leader of the division was IDEN G, another BKHERALD staffer.

4. A few months later, IDEN A received a call from IDEN H, another BKHERALD retiree, who asked about IDEN A's access to boats IDEN H wished to purchase for a relative of his wife, the relative residing in Venezuela. He photographed every boat in the Key West harbor, and it was apparent to IDEN A he was LNCOLLAR-involved. Later, IDEN F approached IDEN A and said

![photo of a patriot]

CONFIDENTIAL

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76
PAGE 2

two BKHERALD people in Miami wanted to meet with IDEN A. IDEN A agreed to a meeting, and IDE!! Fuiroinced IDEN I and IDEN E. IDEN A knew IDEN I, but was aware of IDEN E only by reputation, which was unsavory. IDEN E claimed to be a BKHERALD employee, as did IDEN I. IDEN A, of course, knew otherwise, buť said nothing. In March 1974, IDEN A got a call from IDEN J of the IDEN K, Miami. He was an ex-BKHERALD officer, and he said IDEN G wished to speak with IDEN A in Miami on an urgent basis.

5. IDEN G told IDEN A that he wanted the latter to work for LNCOLLAR to establish intelligence networks in the Cuban community in Key West. He said no one else could do it, and he promised to provide at the start US$100/week plus expenses plus money to pay IDEN A's agents. He said this money would not be repórteble as income. When IDEN A asked about the effect of his own ex-EKHERALD status, IDEN G replied BKHERALD does not want or need to know of this arrangement. IDEN G acknowledged that US$100/week was a small payment, but said any information resulting in a seizure of drugs, the arrest of drug traffickers, or damage to drug rings will be assessed by a board within LNCOLLAR, and money (thousands of dollars) rewarded for this assistance. IDEN A would then be free to split the money with his agents. IDEN J, who was at the meeting, added that within a year. IDEN A should be able to afford the best and largest lobster boat available.

6. IDEN G and IDEN J impressed IDEN A with the dangerous nature of his assignment. They stressed cover as the most important consideration, and IDEN G said, "I don't want to go to any more funerals". They added that if IDEN A got into trouble, there were 150 LNCOLLAR agents in Miami who would come to his aid instantly. IDEN A was given emergency telephone numbers and code names, and was told LNCOLLAR would arrange for his airlift cut (through the LNTUCK Air Station) if needed. If his LNCOLLAR affiliation was blown, IDEN G said there would be compensation provided up to US$40 thousand, as well as relocation assistance. The relocation assistance was not specified, but IDEN A assumed this meant six months living expenses and assistance in job search activities, as well as reimbursement for moving expenses. IDEN J and IDEN L, another ex-BKHERALD official, were to come to Key West one week later to brief IDEN A on the local situation. In the meantime, IDEN A was to prepare a report on what he knew about drug traffickers in the Key West area. Two weeks later, the two did appear in Key West. The little they knew about Key West drug activities was included in IDEN A's report, which also contained much additional data.

7. IDEN A subsequently set up an intelligence net, and began sending back reports. IDEN A was frequently summoned to Miami for meetings with IDEN G. Often, these meetings were a waste of time, and on occasion IDEN G

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76
PAGE 3

would not even show up. At one point IDEN J asked IDEN A to write a paper on the capability of ex-BKHERALD assets who were drug traffickers, and who had been trained in infiltration and exfiltration, to penetrate WODUAL coastal defenses with drugs. IDEN A showed how the assets could circumvent any government effort to stop the drug traffic. The paper "scared LNCOLLAR to death," according to IDEN A. At the end of June 1974, IDEN J asked LDEN A to journey to Washington to brief top LNCOLLAR officials on his conclusions. It was to be an all expense paid trip, and IDEN A flew up and stayed one week. Total remuneration received for the journey was only US$150. During the week, IDEN A had many meetings with IDEN G and his deputy, IDEN M, a former IDEN N staff employee. 1DEN G indicated at that time he was impressed with IDEN A's reports and access in Key West.

8. Later, IDEN A told IDEN G he had sent lots of reports, but there had been no arrests, and therefore no bonuses. IDEN A said he would no longer work for just US$100/week. IDEN G replied he might be able to make IDEN A a LNCOLLAR. consultant to protect his retired status. He also promised IDEN A a large lobster boat (taken from those confiscated in LNCOLLAR raids), and an additional US$500/month to meet expenses and agent payoffs. IDEN G also spoke of using IDEN A in LNCOLLAR activities in Jamaica and South America. Nothing ever was forthcoming on any of these matters. During this period, IDEN A also provided LNCOLLAR (at its request) with the names of potential sources of information in the Miami area. Several persons were approached by LNCOLLAR using IDEN A's name, and a number of former BKHERALD assets were picked up in this manner. Included in this group are IDEN O, IDEN P, and IDEN Q.

9. In May 1974, IDEN F came to IDEN A at a party and, while drunk, said he had heard IDEN G wanted to recruit IDEN A for LNCOLLAR activities. In June he made similar comments while at another social gathering. IDEN A made no comment (other than requesting that IDEN F shut up). When IDEN A was recruited by IDEN G and IDEN J, they had made quite a point of saying only they would be aware of IDEN A's LNCOLLAR ties. Later in June 1974, IDEN F said he knew IDEN A was working with LNCOLLAR. In July 1974, IDEN G said he did not like having IDEN L, who was IDEN A's handling officer in Miami, dealing with him since IDEN L was known to be an LNCOLLAR officer. IDEN G wanted to have IDEN A deal directly with him in Washington, but IDEN A objected, saying the arrangement was too cumbersome. In late July, IDEN G introduced IDEN A to his new contact, IDEN I.

10. In November 1974, it became apparent the drug ring in Key West on which IDEN A's group was reporting was becoming spooked and overly cautious. Through several of his agents IDEN A learned this resulted

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76
PAGE 4

from a direct approach to the violators by LNCOLLAR officer IDEN E, who had come to Key West unbeknownst to IDEN A. Through friends in Miami, IDEN A found out IDEN E was in charge of IDEN A's operation in Key West, had a homosexual relationship with IDEN F which went back for many years (and was responsible for the breakup of IDEN E's first marriage), had big real estate deals going in Miami, had a Swiss bank account, and was still using SKHERALD cover in Miami.

11. IDEN P, who was aware of IDEN E's LNCOLLAR connection, and two other LNCOLLAR assets in the Miami area, had agreed to assist LNCOLLAR only if LNCOLLAR officials could guarantee IDEN E would never know of their relationship or see any of their informant reports. IDEN I arranged for this through IDEN G, and the three agents' files were placed in IDEN M's safe. IDEN A subsequently has learned IDEN E routinely saw all of IDEN P's reports. Later, when the revelations in the preceding paragraph were known, IDEN I told IDEN A there were many allegations about IDEN E, and that he had mentioned this to IDEN G. IDEN G had assured him he would be brought to Washington to discuss the watter, but nothing ever came of it. Ironically, IDEN E was taken into LNCOLLAR on the orders of LNCOLLAR Director IDEN R, and it was specified that no clearance or background check would be undertaken on him.

12. IDEN I and IDEN A decided to approach IDEN F to learn more about IDEN E. During a one hour discussion, IDEN F said he had been appointed the recruiting officer within BKHERALD for persons who would go to LNCOLLAR. IDEN F said he had known IDEN E for a long period of time, and had brought him along in BKHERALD hierarchy. IDEN A believes IDEN F also engineered the absence of a security check on IDEN E by LNCOLLAR since he did not want his homosexual relationship with IDEN E revealed. At that point IDEN A called IDEN G and filled him in on what had been learned, including IDEN F's admission that IDEN E had told him IDEN A was an LNCOLLAR asset. IDEN G denied knowing IDEN F, but said he would check on IDEN E. IDEN A met with IDEN G the next day in Miami to fill him in further, and IDEN G ordered a full investigation. In the meantime, IDEN F told IDEN E of his meeting with IDEN I and IDEN A, and IDEN E wrote a memorandum saying a fellow LNCOLLAR officer (IDEN I) had over- stepped the bounds of propriety in his relationship with an LNCOLLAR asset (IDEN A), and that IDEN I and IDEN A were running an investigation on IDEN E. IDEN E described the situation as "intolerable". The LNCOLLAR inquiry, then, turned from IDEN E to improper actions by IDEN I in discussing an LNCOLLAR employee with an asset. The Internal Affairs section of LNCOLLAR did continue the IDEN E probe and concluded by May 1975 that the charges against IDEN E were accurate. In the meantime, IDEN I was interrogated by IDEN M on his relationship with IDEN A.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76
PAGE 5

13. In August 1975, IDEN G informed IDEN A that control of his operation was being transferred to the Miami regional office, and that his financial relationship with LNCOLLAR would be terminated and then re-established locally following ) September 1975. "On 9 September 1975, a state-federal task force arrested 39 persons in Key West. IDEN A knew nothing about the arrests ir advance. He called IDEN G to find out what was happening, and IDEN G said he also was unaware of then. He asked IDEN A to continue reporting on these developments. The next day IDEN A met with a source who told him someone had blown IDEN A'S INCOLLAR affiliation to the drug ring. He described the leak as coming from an ex-BKHERALD officer who hated IDEN A. IDEN A's source, who was in touch with drug ring members, told IDEN A the codename of his LNCOLLAR operation (IDEN S), and IDEN A learned IDEN F had spread this word all over town. IDEN A subsequently received telephone death threats (one of the ring member's girl friend called to tell him a white LNCOLLAR informant (IDEN A) would not get out of town alive). There had been eight informant deaths in Monroe County (Key West) in 1975, all unsolved murders. There was every reason, then, to take the threats seriously. IDEN A informed LNCOLLAR about the threats. LNCOLLAR replied that IDEN A was pushing the panic button, and asked for more information. IDEN A requested that the emergency evacuation apparatus be used, but LNCOLLAR refused. Finally, LNCOLLAR said "We don't know what you expect us to do since you've been terminated". IDEN A, who had been terminated by LNCOLLAR/Washington, had not been picked up aubsequently by the Miami Regional Office.

14. IDEN A, deniring to keep a low profile, could not talk to many of his agents in Key West, but the few he did reach were expecting a portion of the reward money since the ring that was rolled up was one the agents had reported on for many months. IDEN A checked with LNCOLLAR on this, and was informed his net's information was not used as the basis for the arrests. IDEN A learned that IDEN F had passed the word around Key West that IDEN A was not an LNCOLLAR staff employee, which made IDEN A fair game for removal. He also learned plans had been made locally for his murder. At that point, IDEN A then made his escape with his wife. In Miami, he met with IDEN M. IDEN M claimed IDEN E had not caused any of the problems IDEN A had experienced. Concerning money assurances, IDEN M first denied any promises had been made. Later he said any that had been made (by IDEN G) were unauthorized. He reiterated IDEN A's reporting, although accurate, was not used in the arrests. LNCOLLAR agreed to provide 10EN A with US$1800 for all his problems, and raised the sum later to US$3 thousand. IDEN A accepted the money, but did not indicate he was satiofied with this sum.

15. IDEN A snuck back into Key West and packed his household goods in one evening. His boat was given to a fish supply house to sell. Since he owed the company money for supplies he had purchased, the fish house

CONFIDENTAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CONFIDENTIAL

NFL-002-76
PAGE 6

sold the boat for a sum equal to his debts.. IDEN A's wife quit her job
without notice, and he estimates his actuel financial losses are
US$25 thousand. LNCOLLAR has indicated the US$3 thousand payment iε
"all IDEN A will get", and he is determined to get more.

16. IDEN A believes many of his agents think he did receive a payoff
    from LNCOLLAR following the arrests, and that he took all the money and
    ran, leaving them exposed in Key West. The cars of two of his agents
    were burned, and IDEN D, IDEN F, and others in the Miami area quit working
    for LNCOLLAR when they learned of the treatment he had received and/or
    received death threats themselves. IDEN T. As a result, IDEN A cannot
    return to Key West, and his looster business no longer exists.

17. The purpose of IDEN A's contacting the BKHERALD is first to
    let us know what has happened to many of its former employees and assets.
    IDEN A believes BKHERALD should know of the false promises that were used
    to lure some BKHERALD employees to work at LNCOLLAR. As documentation,
    he provided IDEN I's grievance letter to LNCOLLAR which is attached* and
    for retention. IDEN I has, incidentally, been taken out of the Intelligence
    Division of LNCOLLAR and placed in enforcement work in Miami. IDEN I
    is currently seeking to return to BKHERALD employment, and IDEN A says
    IDEN I will verify his statements on the treatment of BKHERALD personnel
    who transferred to LiCOLLAR. (IDEN I's home phone in Miami is IDEN 1.)
    He and the other ex-BKHERALD employees working at a lower level are fed
    up with LNCOLLAR, and are convinced they will never receive fair treatment
    in that organization. Since IDEN A believes the recruitment of BKHERALD
    officers to switch to LNCOLLAR will be a continuing thing, he feels we
    should know the realities of life in LNCOLLAR.

*[Forwarded Separately]

18. In addition, he notes INCOLLAR is vaing many retired BKHERALD
    people and former BKHERALD assets in its activities. IDEN A believes
    "these persons, in many instances, are being both used and abused. Any
    flap which occurs as a result of LNCOLLAR management will bounce
    back on BKHERALD, since it appears BKHERALD is Involved. in the LNCOLLAR
    operation. Indeed, IDEN G has given the impression his activities have
    been cleared with and approved by BKHERALD. Those assets who are being
    turned off by LNCOLLAR mismanagement are going to be lost to BKHERALD as
    well as to LNCOLLAR. Some of these persons could be significant assets
    in years to come.

19. A flap may not be so far off. In recent weeks IDEN U, who is
    writing a book about the role of the Cubans IDEN V and IDEN W in the
    IDEN X affair, called IDEN A and said he has information that IDEN G's
    wife and IDEN Y's business manager made a trip to Florida recently.
    Also IDEN U said he has learned that a former BKHERALD man who is a

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CONFIDENTIAL

LACOLLAR agent is a homosexual, and that TSS.5 then send to LM-COLLAR funds were given to someone in Miami to tari but a fortie str on drus dealer. The investigation of IDEN 1 by LM-COLLAR Internal affairs did reveal, according to IDEN A, that USIS informant could not be ac for by IDEN E. where'cator appears to have fren woltetted the investigation. IDEN U, who obviously has a pouer attitutn in LMM-COLLAR, also told IDEN A about many of the individuals (by name) in LM-COLLAR who are formerly BERHERALD caples.

20. IDEA U's information appeals is be accurate, ording to IDEN A, who recalls receiving a telephone call fron TSS.5 in July 1975. IDEN G was agitated, and asked IDEN A to handle a matter ler his quickly and 11. He said his wife, children, ami the business agent of IDEN Y were in Key West, and bot sopard to stay in the apartment of a retired AKHERALD employee named IDEN Z (forectly with IDEN A). LIN friend of IDEN F, had left the area and gave his apartment key to IDEN 1. When IDES G's wife and the others arrived in Key West, they romild not locate IDEN F to get the ivy. IDEN A. eo 's A to find out what the doing. "aml Just how far my tech t stuck out". litla A. Iratust they an ciecked into a local motel, He called is parasil This information.

IDES G was relieved, but asked 11. A to keey au pre a se and report thet: awements to him. He called a passed on this information. Subsequently, while it at 10 Miami, IDEN A Intrtual Affairs. This individual was approached by an LM-COLLAR officer in Internal Affairs. Individual said the aplaude una under active Invanligation, and des Juta A what he ince about it.

21 Finally, IDEN A is Aviong krairaild An apportinitiv to provide whatever advice, Buldance, ami aanstatan it wiishes to tuinist be ho takes further action to obtain fut atta betalt

Is thinking in terms of poes ble determination on his with coLIAR. He recoghlans LamULLAR La that event, he plane ta reveal himself, In that event, he plane ta preach Hore ba in faev. the above story, and amck Hore ba asloiane in pritiliens LIM-COLLAR for finam tal reltof. he has beard from BERHERALD, He will not take any action with IDEN 10 untii this matter, a speedy reply to hiirspusat Int saatetan l porociated.

IDEN A, Incidentally, has decided to remain in T.B.?, and does Oma Job as chird levenst (a local privata *)

Ve Indicated a reply would be forthcoming either vi GN Α. to 10FN A.

Separate tower breachacot to follow

Clairns


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: NFL-002-76
(The "Informal Griever was written by IDER I)

SUBJECT

# Informal Grievance

1. This written informal grievance is being submitted in order that it may be passed to higher authority for resolution. It is anticipated that final action will be required by top echelon Dia officials in order to satisfactorily resolve all or part of the issues.

2. I wish to file a grievance on the following subjects which constituta commitments made to me by representatives of DEA at the time of my recruitment from CIA into the DEA Narcotics Intelligence Division.

3. I was specifically told by DLA representatives at the time of my initial recruitment interviews that the retirement plans were the same in both agancies and that my previous time in government would transfor with me with no break in servico. I am now informed that y previous service will not count toward retirement under section 8335(c), title 5, USC Law Enforcement Retirement. This leaves me with no chance to accumulate the required time for retirement.

b. I was told by the DEA representativas that in order to expedite my transfer from CIA it would be necessary to bring me on duty in schedule "A" atotus, however, ection גיט'd be initiated shortly after ay 200 to piace mu in competètive career tatus. I have nos been on duty with DEA for two years and three months, and I ea still on schedule: "A" atetus.

c. As a recruitment ontlenment the DEA горгаantatives stated to mទ្ធ that ofter two years of satisfactory service with DEA I would be a grade 65-13. No promotion in forthcoming oftararnths of satis- factor narvice.

d. DEA roorsaantatives otated to me that I would be casing to DEA na part of the "ground floor" personnal of trained and experienced intellisance officera to staff the nosiy farend intelligence division of DEA and that I could expect Pupld upward movement on the career ladder. At this point thora to nuapparent intellarence careor ladder In OCA

:: The alelave action that would satisfy ay grlovace to complete fulfill- חית EP Items משמחם חם, DLA should take adiolovar action necessary to credit. A revious service for retirement under 8315(e), and career atatus a'ould be entandoned et 'n the CSC. If DLA Comet fulfil the comitments made to ma Kien 14's reprezentativna recruited mo from C14 In 1973, then 's highest artholans of the Juellis Jopaitoont should axpedite my transfer beck to Cli Buan es porsible. ? :


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CONFIDENTIAL 161440Z JAN 75 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13276

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: DEPUTY CHIEF OF OPERATENAS (WATTS)

SUBJ: IDENTITIES IN NFL-222-75 DATED 14 JANUARY 1976 FORVARDED
IN POUCH NO. 234

IDEN A - GRAYSTON LYNCH, 5799 BAY POINT DRIVE, TAMPA, FLORIDA
PHONE NUMBER: 813-364-8618

IDEN B - OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNCIL

IDEN C - GUSTAVO FERNANDEZ

IDEN D - AMADO CANTILLO

IDEN E - ROBERT MEDELL

IDEN F - GEORGE SOHL (NICKALNE "JERRY")

IDEN G - LUCIEN CONIEN

IDEN H - BENEDICT MANDICH

IDEN I - GARY NATTOCKS, PHONE NUMBER 279-0945

IDEN J - WILLIAM LOGAY

IDEN K - DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

IDEN L - MIKE BRUM

IDEN M - BUD FRANKS

IDEN N - BUREAU OF NARCOTICS

IDEN O - RAFAEL GARCIA

IDEN P - GONZALO FRES

IDEN Q - PES لال

IDEN R - INGL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

PAGL 2 DCD/HIAMI 13076
IDENS - (GRAY GHOST)

IDEN I - THE DRUG RING THAT WAS ROLLED UP WAS A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR OPERATION, THE GROUP HAD A COUNTER-INTELLIGENCE BUDGET OF ABOUT USSONE MILLION ANNUALLY, AND INCLUDED (EITHER AS ACTIVE RING MEMBERS OR WITTING OF ITS ACTIVITIES THE SON OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE IN KEY WEST, THE STATE'S ATTORNEY, THE SHER IFF AND CHIEF OF POLICE, THREE MEMBERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL, THE ENTIRE POLICE DEPARTMENT, OVER HALF OF THE SHERIFF'S DEPARTMENT, THE FIRE CHIEF, AND VARIOUS CITY AND COUNTY OFFICIALS. ΤΗΣ RING ALSO RAN THE PROSTITUTION, NUMBERS, AND THEFT RINGS IN THE AREA. WHILE SOME OF THESE PERSONS WERE ARRESTED (THE FIRE CHIEF, FOR ONE), OTHERS WERE NOT, AND ALL ARE FREE ON BAIL AT THIS TIME.

IDEN U - GEORGE CRILE

IDEN V- BERNARD L. BARKER

IDEN W- EUGENIO R. MARTINEZ

IDEN X- WATERGATE

IDEN Y- MADAM NHU

IDEN Z- RALPH JOHNSON

IDEN AA - VNO

IDEN BB - CONGRESSMAN SAM GIBBONS E2 IMPDET CL BY 311663

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

CONFIDENTIAL

NPL-003-76

ATTN: Chief, Domestic Collection Division
: Daputy Chief of Operations (Watts)
Chief, Miami Field Office

13 January 1976

Publication of Items Relating to Cuban Operations

1.  We met with Greyston Lynch, a retired Agency staff employee, on 7 January 1976 at his hors in Tampa, Florida. Lynch had requested the meeting through contact with OGC. One item of interest to Lynch concerns a book he wishes to write on Cuban operations during the period 1961-67. Lynch currently is in the process of preparing one book (on tha Bay of Pigs) for publication. Recently, however, ha spoke with George Crile, who is writing a book on Watergate burglars Eugenio Martines and Bernard Barker. Crile indicated he and co-author Taylor Branch plan to follow that book with one on the Agency'a Cubaa operations, and focus on Lynch and William Robertson, two major figures in the Bay of Piga invasion. Since Hartinez was deeply involved with Lynch as a ship captain during the Bay of Pigs and in subsequent operations against Cuba, he will be the primary source for the book.

2.  Lynch believes the story Martinex will provide will be somewhat Inaccurate becausa ha only saw developments from the vantage point of a ship captain. Lyach (whose cohort Robertson is deceased) believes only ha cau provide an accurate recounting. The Martinez book is scheduled for printing in the summer of 1976. Lynch would like to beat Crile and Branch to the punch. Indeed, he believes they will not publish their book if they know he is going to publish one on the sama subject. What Lynch wishes is an indication of general Agency reaction to any manuscript he might write on the period.

3.  Lynch wishes to write about the operations of the ANLILAC group (Commandos Mombisei) during the period 1961-67, when Lyoch conducted about 100 infiltration and exfiltration operations in Cuba. Any smscript he drafts will, of course, be submitted to the Agency for review. Ha does not wish to get into the writing job, however, if there is a blanket prohibition on describing Agency operations which occurred in that period and place. He notes that Martinez, not fettered Ly Agency restrictions, will provide Crile and Branch with his recollections. Lynch believes he can cover the material in a way which will not hurt anyone or expose anything. He had no intentions of getting into the commando raid recounting business until he heard from Crile recently.

E2 LIPDET CL BY 011668


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

CONFIDENTIAL

- 2 -

NFL-003-76

4. Since time is importaat on this matter, Lynch shall appreciata a fairly quick response on this question. He recognizes no final decision on his manuscript can be made until Agency officials review it. At the same time, however, it may not be too difficult to ascertain the presence or absence of a *blanket restriction* on writing about this ere.

RJKnays1:1jh

BRUCE E. MAINWARING.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CONFIDENTIAL 162020Z DEC 75 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIUMI 13034

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: DEPUTY CHIEF OF OPERATIONS KWATTS)

FROM: CHIEF, MIAMI FIELD OFFICE

SUBJ: GRAYSTON LYNCH, TAMPA, FLORIDA

REF : TELECON OF MAINWARING/WATTS, 16 DECEMBER 1975, SAME SUBJECT.

I TALKED WITH SUBJECT BY TELEPHONE THIS AFTERNOON. HE WILL BE INTERVIEVED IN THE VERY NEAR FUTURE AND WE WILL PROVIDE YOU WITH A FULL REPORT. E2 IMPDET CL SY 611668

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

DIARY, 16 December 1975

194494

1.  John Greaney, OGC, called this date to advise that ex-CIA employce (now retired) Grayston Lyrich told john over the telephone that he wants to consult with a CIA officer on some undefined problems concerning other ex-CIA employees. It seems that Lynch, who was involved in the Bay of Pigs operation and is an open protagonist of CIA, is writing a book. He is in contact with Greaney with respect to OGC's need to review the boek before it is published.

2.  Greaney, who believes that Lynch may be connected with Dave Philips' Ex-CIA Employees Association, asked if we could have a DCD officer from the Miami Field Office visit Lynch in Tampa, where he is now living, and listen to his story. Greaney attached some importance and urgency to his request and indicated that it would be advantageous for the Agency to remain on good terms with Lynch.

3.  I told him I would pass his request on to higher DCD authority and let him know what is decided. Lynch's address is: 8709 Bay Point Drive, Tampa, Florida, telephone: 813-884-8610.

CSmyth/pk

CONFIDENTIAL
E 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# CONFIDENTIAL

JCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLEC.S

SECTION 1. To be completed by the field

1. METHOD OF COLLECTION

| INTERVIEW | TRIP REPORT | OTHER DOC. | OTHER (Specify) |
| :-------: | :---------: | :--------: | :-------------: |
|     X     |             |            |                 |

2. DIRECTED TO. Group/Desk Officer

DCD/ICG/AMA (Hunter/Budelier)

3. SUBJECT AND AREA

Recruitment of Cuban Exile Aircrews

(Zaire)

4. FIELD COMMENTS

INTERNAL USE ONLY

5. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Grayston Lynch
8709 Bay Point Drive
Tampa, Florida

6. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

7. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

None

8. REPORT SERIES

| 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | 6   | 7   |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| A   | B   | K   | T   | S   | Y   |     |

9. REPORT NO. 10. CASE NO. 11. DATE FWD'D 12. FO/RO 13. EXCHANGES

| 1-7 | 8-12 | 13-14 | 15-16 | 17-18 |
| --- | ---- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
|     |      | MO.   | DA.   | YR.   |

23
1. Exchanges 2.Bilateral 3. Commercial 4. Article IV

E(R) 07314-77 64,954 03 31 77 XMIM

14. OBJ. 15. KIQ. 16. JOINT 17. MILITARY 18. 1/0 (32 - 43) 19. F.O. CHIEF

| 24-26 | 27-29 | 30  | 31                           |
| ----- | ----- | --- | ---------------------------- |
| Kla   | 11    |     | 1. Air Force 2. Army Is Navy |

BMainwaring BMainwaring

SECTION 2: To be completed by Headquarters

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS (Do not reveal source indentities)

Process sheet and report was typed in Headquarters/International Collection Group,
AMA Section from Miami teletype 13953.ZIBET VIA LSG (POM)

Coordinated of ZIBET-

made TKC at ZIBET repaust

ORPA-6605
CRG-7650
CPS-Rot fter 7F24 NIC/AF 7F47

SECTION 3: To be completed by ICB

| SUBJECT | NO DISSEM | DATE RELEASED | GRADE | E(GMPOR) | CNTRY CODE | MAJOR AREA CODE | TYPE REPORT | VO/REST. |     |       |     |     |     |
| :-----: | :-------: | :-----------: | :---: | :------: | :--------: | :-------------: | :---------: | :------: | --- | ----- | --- | --- | --- |
|  44-47  |    48     |      49       |  50   |  51-52   |   53-54    |      55-56      |     57      |  58-59   | 60  | 61-64 | 65  | 66  | 67  |

| 0   | ECO | 1. Sufficiently known              |
| --- | --- | ---------------------------------- |
| 1   | S&T | 2. row general                     |
| 2   | POL | 3. Data supplied by other agencies |
| 3   | MIL | 4. ...                             |
| 5   | SOC | 4. Other, Misc                     |
| 6   | GEO | 5. Combined with                   |
| 7   | BIO | 6. ...                             |
| 8   | ... | 8. Insufficient interest           |

040177 05 R 190 5 EX

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM:

DESK OFFICER

NBudelier for MHunter:djm

BRANCH SECTION CHIEF

Nomie Budelier

| CONTACT | INDIVIDUAL NO. | ORGANIZATION |
| :-----: | :------------: | :----------: |
|         |     68-73      |    74-79     |

SOURCE

SUB-SOURCE

E: IMPOET CL HV J10650

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# Domestic Collection Division

# Foreign Intelligence Information Report

COUNTRY Zaire

DCD REFORT NO. OO-E 324/07314-77

SUBJECT Recruitment of Cuban Exile Aircrews

DATE DISTR. 1 April 1977

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES DCD Case 64,954

DATE OF INFO. March 1977

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US citizen, a former professional intelligence officer. He received this information from a long time acquaintance who was invited to participate in the project discussed in this report.

1.  An individual described as chief pilot to Zaire President Sese Seko Mobuto has been attempting to recruit pilots and ground crews from among Cuban exile groups to counter invading forces. Especially desired are members of the former Cuban Congo brigade.

2.  Active in this project is an individual named *Rene Carcia*.

3.  According to prospective participants, two qualified piicts may have recently left for South Africa, presumably in connection with this project.

4.  Zaire is also seeking to purchase skyraider aircraft.

- end -

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

011668

5

4

3

2

1

5

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# CONFIDENTIAL

(when filled in)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

19-44-94

![table headers: FIELD, PRÉSIDENT, OFFICE, ORGANIZATION, NUMBER, CASE NUMBER, FORNARCED, MO, DAY, YR, REPORT SERIES & NO,  TO, USE, MO, DAY, YR, RELEASED]

XNFL

SUBJECT AND AREA

Eulugio Cantillo/Claim of High Quality Uranium Deposits in Cuban Mine

(Cuba)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Grayston Lynch

8790 Bay Point Drive

Tampa, FL

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

![table headers: TYPE DOE, BOT DISSEMINATED, SUBJECT, PROCESSING ELEMENT]

GRAPHICS, MAPS,
PUBLICATIONS,
REPORTS, OTHER

*BOT
DISSEMI-
NATED

*SUBJECT*

1.  SUFFICIENTLY
    WELL FNOW

2.  TOO GENERAL

3.  DATA SUPPLIED
    BY CTHER
    AGENCIES

4.  OTHER/MISC.

![table: 1 ,2,3]

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

5.  COMBINED WITH

6: INSUFFICENT
TEREST

![table headers: METHOD OF COLLECTION, EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM, EXCHANGES (COL. 35)]

X INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

1-EXCHANGE

3.  COMMERCIAL

OTHER DOCUMENT

CSG SREE ICG

OTHER (Specify below)

DESK OFFICER

2-BILATERAL

4.  ARTICLE IV

DIRECTED TO

X

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS

We decided 00-A(S) would be the most appropriate format for this information since AKULE has (according to Source) had a long relationship with the general. Any follow-up request for verification would likely go through that route. Source has not previously passed the information to an Agency representative.

AKULE

HH 27779

![table headers: VBO, KIO, GRADE, INDIVIDUAL NO, WA, TA, COUNTRY]

CIA XX OX

EJKnaysi:ljh

![signature] F. BEMARUWARING

7A 014A

![signature]

DESK OFFICER

BRANCH SECTION CHIEF

OSE

FORM 25

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

7-75

CONFIDENTIAL

E2 IMPORT CL BY 006697

120-411

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# CLASSIFICATION
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

![CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY seal]

DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. 00-A(S)-322/00270-76

DATE 13 January 1976

NO. PAGES 1

SUBJECT Eulugio Cantillo/Claim of High
Quality Uranium Deposits in
Cuban Mine

REFERENCES

# DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
# OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

This report is believed to contain information of operational interest and may not be disclosed to personnel outside the Directorate of Operations without the prior permission of the Domestic Collection Division.

US citizen, individual with longtime relationship with Eulugio Cantillo. Source is a retired Agency staff employee.

1. Zulugio Centillo, a Cuban national who resides at 6791 S.W. 2nd Street, Miami, Florida, is a former Cuban general. In 1956, when he was the Chief of the Cuban Air Force under Cuban dictator Batista, Cantillo's uncle came to him with an ore sample the uncle had uncovered in an abandoned former Spanish mine in Cuba. The uncle suspected the ore was uranium. Cantillo brought the specimen to the US, where it was assayed by an unnamed US survey company as being the richest uranium sample the firm had ever tested. Cantillo and the uncle, who were the only individuals aware of the location of the mine, recognized archaic Cuban laws did not protect their find, so the general attempted to get Batista to change the mining statutes. Batista suspected the general had come across something significant, andhhe sent a team of men to the Pinar del Rio area for six months on a search. The team uncovered nothing. Batista also tried to work out a deal where he would be a partner in the venture as a pre-condition to changing the mining laws. He was unsuccessful in convincing Cantillo to permit him to become a partner. At that time, the revolution reached full intensity, and Batista left the country.

2. Cantillo's uncle is still in Cuba. Despite Cantóllo's imprisonment by the Fidel Castro regime for nine years, he has never told anyone about his uncle's find. Approximately one year ago, Cantillo approached a retired Agency staff employee and informed him of the uncle's find. He did so after all these years because of the developing relations between the US and Cuba. Cantillo feels the US may be able to make use of information that Castro does not possess about the riches that exist in his own nation, and that Castro and the USSR would capitalize on the find if they were to become aware of it. In his view, the US should know of this potential before it conducts negotiations with Castro. The general is willing to provide the name of the assay company, so that documentation can be obtained on the purity of the uranium.

3. The general's US contact notes Cantillo is not the sort of man who speaks inaccurately abort things such as this. He described Cantillo as a "solid guy", and says the information Cantillo has provided probably is reliable.

- end -

CLASSIFICATION
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

![classification of the document]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)