# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Ост 2 10:52:72

SECRET 021510Z OCT 72 RESTRICTED HANDLING
17-27
CITE (ALGIERS) 1341

PRIORITY HEADQUARTERS.

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

REFS: A. HEADQUARTERS 1653

B. (ALGIERS) 1340

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1. MELVIN MCNAIR (DPOB 30 OCT 48, GREENSBORO,

N.C.), ONE OF THE HIJACKERS OF A DELTA AIRLINES PLANE ON
30 JULY, APPEARED LNFALL 2 OCT 72 TO OBTAIN US PASSPORTS
FOR HIS TWO CHILDREN AND FOR THE CHILD OF GEORGE EDWARD
WRIGHT (DPOB 3/29/43, HALIFAX COUNTY, VA.), AND
JOYCE TILLERSON (DPOB 6/6/51, SPARTANBURG, S.C.).
DURING CONVERSATIONS WITH FLANIK, MCNAIR MADE FOLLOWING
REMARKS WHICH GENERALLY CONFIRM (GL) DUEL/I'S INFO REPORTED
REF B:

2. WILLIAM HOLDER, A WESTERN AIRLINES HIJACKER,
   DEFINITELY NAMED BY BLACK PANTHERS (BP) INTERNATIONAL SECTION,
   AS ITS ALGIERS HEAD. HOLDER WAS PICKED BECAUSE BP INTERNA-

INTERNATIONAL SECTION STILL UNDER CONTROL OF ELDRIDGE CLEAVER
(201-817097) AND NONE OF THE OTHER BP ASSOCIATES IN ALGIERS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

PAGE 2 (ALGIERS) 1341 SECRET

WANTED TO WORK WITH CLEAVERS. PETER O' NÉAL (201-856553),
FOR EXAMPLE, RECENTLY LEFT THE COUNTRY AND DONALD CÓх (201-851941) CLAIMS THAT HE WANTS TO MINIMIZE FURTHER ASSO-
CIATION WITH CLEAVER SINCE CLEAVER HAS SUCCEEDED IN "ONLY
IRRITATING THE ALGERIANS." (MCNAIR HAS NOT SEEN COX FOR
ABOUT TWO WEEKS.)

3. MCNAIR, HOLDER AND OTHER HIJACKERS LIVE AT THE BP
   POINTE PESCADE VILLA AND RARELY SEE CLEAVER WHO IS LIVING
   IN HIS VILLA IN EL BIAR. MCNAIR SAID ALGERIANS KEEP A
   "CLOSE EYE" ON CLEAVER AND HIS WIFE, ALSO NOW IN ALGIERS.

4. THE HIJACKERS HAVE BEEN ISSUED NO DOCUMENTATION BY
   THE ALGERIANS. THERE ARE NO RESTRICTIONS ON THEIR MOVEMENTS
   EXCEPT THEY HAVE BEEN ADVISED NOT TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE
   PROVINCE OF ALGIERS.

5. MCNAIR SAID HE HAD NOT REALLY BELIEVED THAT THE
   ALGERIANS WOULD RETURN TO THE US THE ONE MILLION DOLLARS
   INVOLVED IN THE DELTA HIJACKING. HE SAID HE WAS AWARE BEFORE
   THE HIJACKING WAS PLANNED THAT THERE WERE REPORTS THAT THE
   500 THOUSAND DOLLARS FROM THE WESTERN AIRLINES HIJACKING HAD
   BEEN RETURNED, BUT HE DID NOT BELIEVE THE REPORT SINCE HE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

PAGE 3 (ALGIERS) 1341 SECRET

ALSO AWARE THAT THE HIJACKERS IN THAT CASE WERE FREE IN
ALGIERS. ALSO, MCNAIR REASONED THAT SUCH A LARGE SUM WOULD
OVERRIDE ALGERIAN POLITICAL CONSIDERATIONS IN THEIR DECISION
ON THE MONEY'S DISPOSAL.

6. THE RECENT RAID ON THE BPP HEADQUARTERS BY ALGERIAN
   AUTHORITIES WAS TRIGGERED BY CLEAVER'S OPEN LETTER TO PRESI-
   DENT BOUMEDIENE DEMANDING RETURN OF THE HIJACK
   MONEY. CLEAVER'S LETTER WAS WRITTEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL
   OF THE REST OF THE BPP MEMBERS IN ALGERIA AND CAUSED A
   MAJOR SPLIT IN THE PARTY.

7. MCNAIR APPEARED AT EASE IN FLANIK'S OFFICE AND
   QUITE TALKATIVE, ALTHOUGH MUCH OF THE CONVERSATION CENTERED
   ON HIS TRIP TO ALGIERS. HE APPARENTLY SURPRISED TO FIND
   ALGERIA SUCH AN ADVANCED COUNTRY. HE HAS NO DOCUMENTATION
   EXCEPT AN AMERICAN DRIVER'S LICENSE AND WHEN ASIED IF HE
   WISHED TO APPLY FOR A US PPT, HE REPLIED THAT "WE HAVE NO
   WHERE TO GO, SO I GUESS NOT." MCNAIR EXPECTED TO RETURN
   LNFALL NEXT FEW DAYS TO SEE WHAT PROGRESS FLANIK HAS MADE ON
   PPT APPLICATIONS.

8. SIGNIFICANT ASPECTS OF ABOVE INTERVIEW BEING SENT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

14-00000

# 1

17-27
PAGE 4 ALGIERS 1341 SECRET

LNGOLD VIA LNFALL CHANNEL. E2 IMPDET

SECRET

![Un]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)