# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INITIAL PLATENED AL I IIEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: KDBADGER Vol III

Support.

INCLUSIVE DATES: 25 Jan 1962-13 Nov 1964

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LA/DDO

ROOM: 3634

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 26.1.15       | 6/26          | D) HARDWAY               | Don Hardway                     |
|               | 6/27          | D HAROWAY                | D Handway                       |
|               |               | HARDWAY                  | Hardaway                        |
| 15275         |               | DA HAROWAY               | Harolaway                       |
|               | 11/20/78      | HAROWAY                  | Hardway                         |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

![photo of a document with text]

![photo of text on a document that says KDBADGER 50-6-75/2 SUPPORT]

![photo of text on a document that says JANUARY 1962 - DECEMBER 1964 50-5-75/2 LIENVOY SUPPORT]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. *DO NOT*

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO IP/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

-CONFIDENTIAL

FORM 2593


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# MESSAGE FORM 15

ORIG. C. Rustos-Vidcla
UNIT NJI/
EXT 4506
DATE 13 NOVEMBER 1964 FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-91/2

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM DIRECTOR

CONS. WH 8
INFO DDP, ADDP, CI/1.P.3, os 2, VR, FRE

TO PRIORNY MEXI

LITEMPO
REF: MEXI 1538 (IN 20864)*

INFO

CITE DIR 64013

1. ONLY POSSIBLY IDENTICAL TRACES MRS SHAPIRO ARE IN HMM 191 AND HMMA 2525. ODIBEX REPORTS 1948 WHICH CANNOT BE LOCATED (BELIEVED ONLY REPORT TRAVEL BETWEEN MEXI AND US) REPORTS ON ROSA ACKERMAN DE SHAPIRO BORN BOZALIA RUSSIA ON 8 MARCH 1909 (MEXI GOVT SHOULD HAVE FILE ON HER).

2. ONLY PROBABLY IDENTIFIABLE TRACE LIPPMAN WAS KUTWIN CENSORSHIP REPORT 1942 WHICH LISTS HIM AS CONNECTED REAL ESTATE AND CONTRACTING FIRMS NEWARK NEW JERSEY. HE WAS CONNECTED WITH INDUSTRIAS DE DEFENSA IN HABANA CUBA WIIICI! WAS DESCRIBED AS UNDERTAKING PROMOTIONAL SCHEMES INVOLVING SHIPBUILDING, DOCK FACILITIES, AND DEFENSE WORK.

3. KUSODA IS MAKING LOCAL CHECK. AFTER OBTAINING HUSBAND'S FIRST NAME AND SOME BAKXXXM BACKGROUND WILL CHECK VOLUMINOUS FNU SHAPIRO TRACES RI AND CARDS ON HUSBAND. UNLESS ADVISED CONTRARY DO NOT PLAN CHECK ODENVY, ODURGE OR ODIBEX. IF THESE AGENCIES WOULD HAVE INFO WE WOULD HAVE TO REQUEST SPECIFIC PERMISSION PASS TO MEXI OFFICIALS.

END OF MESSAGE

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

ORIG. C. Bustos-Videla
UNIT WH/1
EXT 4506
DATE 13 NOVEMBER 1964

MESSACE FORM

SECRET

ROUTING
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8

142

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF INFO

PAGE TWO

TO INFO CITE DIR 64013

WH COMMENT: "LITEMPO-2 requested info on SHAPIRO and LIPPMAN who reside New Jersey and who are suspected espionage agents."

![signature of KICHARD HELMS]

KICHARD HELMS
DDP

RELEADING OFFICER

![signature]
C/WH/1

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

![stamp]
GROUP 1
Included from automatic downgrading and declassification

![signature of JOHN HORTON]
JOHN HORTON
C/WH/POA

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 1. ROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

ORIG. C. Bustos
UNIT WH/1
EXT. 4506
DATE 31 AUGUST 1964

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI WH 8 INFO 7506, CCS3, OPZ, VR

## MESSAGE FORM

SECRET

![Routing information with lines indicating routing numbers]

1 SEP 61 15292

TO MEXI
INFO CITE DIR
REF: DIR 44882 43309

RUTSAY ETA 8 SEPT EAL FLIGHT 305. NO NEED MEET, REQUEST
RESERVATIONS. WILL PHONE AREHART DIRECTLY.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Ref gave AREHART instructions for Hqs contact re
his travel to U.S.*

![Signature]

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET
COORDINATING OFFICERS

W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

![Text indicating restrictions on reproduction and declassification status]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MESSAGE FORM

27 SECRET

14 AUGUST 1964

MEXICO CITY

DIRECTOR

INFO 7506, C1/1C2, VR Bustos

LIENVOY/TECHS

REF: HMMT-4748

42430

NEWTON T. RUTSAY AVAILABLE FOR TDY 10 TO 2S SEPT. ETA FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/Pers/Benthall (by phone)

C/TSD/AOB/Yech (by phone)

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WIID

W J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

10 August 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division

ATTENTION: Chief, TSD/AOB

SUBJECT: Request for TOY Replacement for Arnold F. AREHART.

1. WIH Division requests your cooperation in providing a TDY replacement for Arnold F. ARCHART as Case officer and technician for the IIENVOY tap center in Mexico City. AREPART has requested three weeks home leave, from 10 to 28 September, to drive his older son to the States to enroll him in his freshman year of college. ARFHART has kept his leave plans to a minimum so that his TDY replacement will need to be on loan from Headquarters for as short a time as possible.

2. The Division had offered to provide an operations officer as a TDY replacement but Mexico City Station has re- quested that a technician be sent instead since the burden of AREHART's job is the maintenance of equipment along with the protection of CIA's interests inside the LP. WE Division sug- gests that your release of Ur. Charles Deck for this assign- nent would be ideal if he is available, as no overlap would be required since he is already knowledgeable of this opera- tion. The Station was also very pleased with the work done by "r. Deck on his last TRY to Mexico.

3. Because of the critical role the LIFNVOY Project plays in the Station's whole operational picture, and because of the importance the smooth-functioning of the ! is to car liaison with top-level Mexican officials, your assistance is requested. If Mr. Deck is not available, any other suitable candidate would be acceptable. Please inform Hr. Bustos, W/1/Mexico, X-4506, -4507 of your decision, as we would like to be able to inform Mexico as soon as possible as to whether a TOY replacement will be available.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

DDP/WH/DF/CBustos:kte (10 August 1964)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - WH/Registry
1 - WH/1/Mexico
1 - WH/1/Mexico (LIFNVOY/Support)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# DISPATCH

Mer, Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City..

N/ replacement for Arnold P. ARSHART (pe)
Reference: IDMX-12750 dated 17 July 1964

1. Arnold F. ARSHART (pe) would like to depart from Mexico on 10 September 1964 for home leave and return about 26 September 1964. He does not wish longer leave since it will be necessary to take his younger son out of school. His liter as will be entering college in the United States wich is the reason ARSHART requested leave at this time.

2. A technician would be preferable to an operations officer as a temporary replacement for ARSHART as the former of the job will be maintenance of equipment and protection of RISBK interests inside the IP. Since ARSHART will be away three weeks, it is requested that Headquarters reconsider sending a technician. The technician will be better able to do the job if he has Spanish; this, however, is not essential as certain LILY/Three speak English.

Willard C. Curtis

Distribution:
2- C/WID

(CROSS REFERENCE TO)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

IDMX-4743

DATE

23 July 1964

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

FILE NUMBER

50-6-75/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# DISPATCH

ASSPACAT

STERET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WID

Replacement for Arnold F. AREHART during Hore leave

Reference: ΗΜΜΑ 23522

1. Referenced dispatch which reflected the Station's appreciation of Newton T. RITSAY's high level of performance during his recent TOY in Mexico and requested his return TDY was brought to the attention of the appropriate KURIOT officials.

2. Unfortunately, RUTSAY will not be available to replace AREHART during the latter's home leave period in the fall of 1964, and KURIOT has no one else they can release for a prolonged period this fall. Since the leave probably will only be about two months, Headquarters wonders whether a technician is absolutely required. Dees the Station believe that an operations officer, with some Spanish and who could werely take over the administrative work and make the Station contacts, could fill in during this period?

3. We are not sanguine that a replacement can be made available particularly since the man will of necessity need to be "exposable" to liaisen, but will try our best to find one. In the reantime, please forward the exact dates it is desired the hoped for man should be in Mexico to allow for adequate overlap.

Distribution:
2 - COS, Mexico City

Chester D. DAINOLD

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMHOL AND LIMBER
HNNW-12741

SECRET

50-6.75/2

DATE

17 JUL 1964

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-75/2

ORIGINATING

C. Bustes-Videla: KTF

EXT

4506

COORDINATING

McBee u drafti B.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO:

FROM:
Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT:
LIENVOY SUPPORT

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

1.  Arnold F. AREHART asked that his TDY replacement inquire at Headquarters regarding the status of his request for equipment which the Station forwarded to Headquarters as Requisition No. 359-19-64. Headquarters has shipped to Corpus Christi the items he requested in connection with the Revere (shipped 20 April), and the Heath and Allied items were shipped on 7 May. The Ampex and B-10 items have not yet been received at Headquarters from the supplier. Headquarters will pouch all items from these that weight and size will permit, the remainder will have to be shipped to Corpus Christi. In view of the equipment listed in LGIS 6020, 18 May 1964, which is also awaiting pickup at Corpus Christi, perhaps there will be a flight soon.

2.  It is requested that the above information be passed to AREHART.

Distribution:
O&I - COS, Mexico City

Chester D. DAINOLD



---

CS COPY



DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:
HAIMW-12611

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

DATE:
27 MAY 1964
31 May 1964

HQS FILE NUMBER:
50-6-75/2

OFFICE:
WH/3/Mexico/C. Bustos:chk

EXT.
5940

OFFICE SYMBOL:
WH/LOG

OFFICER'S NAME:
P. Pike (draft)


OFFICE SYMBOL:
C/WHD

OFFICER'S NAME:
Desmond FitzGerald


DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

26 May

26 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, TSD/AOB

SUBJECT : LIENVOY TDY Report

1. TDY support of the LIENVOY operation in Mexico City was provided by this office during the period 23 April to 15 May 1964. The Staff Agent, ARNOLD F. AREHART who manages this operation underwent surgery for a hernia on the 24th of April. The undersigned assumed the responsibilities and performed the duties associated with the LIENVOY operation during AREHART's convalescence. He was incapacitated for duty from 23 April until 12 May. His operation was successful and recovery was normal. AREHART returned to work on 12 May in a weakened condition and three days of overlap was allowed to provide assistance with the more strenuous and tiresome chores.

2. The LIENVOY Installation was found to be in excellent condition. The operating personnel were well disciplined and their procedures were well organized. The daily work was being accomplished in a business like and efficient manner. AREHART has done a commendable job in establishing and maintaining this highly productive operation,

3. The equipment in this installation has been in use fifteen hours a day for over four years. As the result of good maintenance practices it is in good shape and functioning well. The minor difficulties encountered during the shake down period have been overcome and equipment maintenance and repair pose no significant problem There was no loss of coverage on any line during the three week TDY.

4. The following observations and recommendations are included herein to improve KURIOT services to the Field and to aquaint responsible officers with technical discrepancies.

A. Pertinent technical information is not being communicated to AREHART.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

B. The drying up of the ball point pens in the B-10, Dial Recorder has been a constant nuisance since the beginning of this operation. The pressure sensitive tape was the obvious answer to this problem, but the first ten rolls of pressure tape were received after nearly four years of struggling with the defective pens. It is recommended that pressure sensitive tape be supplied to this operation for future use.

C. The ten rolls of pressure sensitive tape received during this TDY were wound backwards on their spindles.

D. The tires on the idler wheel of the B-10 are drying and cracking and fail to obtain adequate traction on the flywheel. This causes tape feed problems. It is recommended that three dozen new idler wheels be pouched to AREHART immediately. Several of the defective idler wheels arc available in this office for inspection.

Charles O. Deck
TSD/AOB

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee

1 - TSD/AOE/OSS/WH
1 - WH/3/M 3B0003/Charlotte Bustos
1 - TSD/LOG
1 - TSD/AOB/TRO

Charles O. Deck/3330/jlm


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

B/10 Farter

*12 each SH-) Dian ply silicon ratifioro, f.. rel lectric
1N 1695

26 Tuben 6XX86X5

*12 each K-2 Feed Scionetes

*24 Small Springs for Drive Motor Special.

AMPEN PARTS:

*12 Bach R-137 Centrals -4-011-12:

*2 each Alignments Tapen--jart 16039-

*4 och J-201-6 118

*4 each 1-101-1 אווניו

*4 each 1-102-5 פיינין

*4 each J-202-1 1'luge

*6 ench C-203 Motor (pacitors, Linctrolytic 2,311, 220 V.

*6 each R-202 Resistors. 20% נמל

REVERE PARTS

36 Spare proasure pas TR-2601.

*6 each Instant Stop aras (ne type,

*12 each Tape counter drive boite 1-3-11101

*12 aach Take up belts Th-7809

TEST EQUIPMENT:

Heathkit Catiog Fail and Inter 1962-1963

Heathkit fransistor tester Kit 1-20

Capacitor Checker Kit 11-11

Visual-Aural Signal Tr cor KAB T-

Oscilloscope 118 70-10

Scope Demodulator protkit 81 3370

Low Capacity cope Frou ft:-1

Harmonic Distortion ter Kit -1

Resistance substitutor. Box Kit -1

Condo.ser Subaitution rox

Allied Catalog # 220--1963

Page 197 Cat

I each TS-AJ Topo splicera Cat 380-195

2 each S-'s Taposplicers Cut 808-172

6 each splicing Tape Cat 808-203 T-77

beach Splicing Tape Cat 808-155 ST-5--1

Page 323

Rosiat-0-Chest 2M-758 fd type aunber 43

Гако 394.

Cable Splacing cord 自台 491-246 1/2 lb.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO: DOP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/INT 2, SAS 8, VR

SECRET 151924Z

DIR INFO CARA CITE MEXI-7782

REF EMSTEL 1583 DATED 14 JAN 54 15 JAN 64 IN 99238

1. NOTE CHARGE BOONSTRA REPORT OF VICENTE SANCHEZ GAVITO (MEXICAN AMBASSADOR TO OAS CONVERSATION IN WHICH SANCHEZ GAVITO SAID "VENEZUELAN PROBLEM IS CRITICAL FOR GOVERUMENT OF MEXICO. ALTHOUGH FONOFF HAS NOTT SEEN ANY OF THE EVIDENCE ON ORIGIN ARKS CACHE, SAID FONOFF HAS RECEIVED RELIABLE INFORMATION TO THE EFFECT EVIDENCE OF CASINO ORIGIN IS CONVINC ING."

2. BELIEVE "RELIABLE EVIDENCE" LIKELY THAT GIVEN TO LITENSOR BY SAMUEL K. CASTELON IN DECEMBER BRIEFING.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![GROUP Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification] Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

CONTROL AND COVER CHEET
FOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

TIME REC'D CABLE SECI 1700
LIMIT DISTRIBUTION-S/S TELEGRAM OR LIMIT DISTRIBUTION MEMORANDUM

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION: DEPTEL 1071 to Merico City

ROUTED TO
ATTENTION ALL RECIPIENTS: THE STATE DEPARTMENT HAS FURNISHED TO THE DIRECTOR, CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE, ONE COPY OF THE ATTACHED DOCUMENT. REPRODUCTION IS PROHIBITED. THE CABLE
SECRETARIAT HAS ROUTED THIS DOCUMENT AS SHOWN TO THOSE WHO HAVE A NEED TO KNOW. EACH
DCI
INDIVIDUAL WHO SEES THIS MESSAGE SHOULD SIGN AND INDICATE THE DATE OF HANDLING. THIS
D/DCI
COVER SHEET MUST BE KEPT ATTACHED TO THE DOCUMENT UNTIL THE DOCUMENT IS DESTROYED. THE
AD/CI
COVER SHEET MUST BE RETAINED BY THE RECIPIENT FOR 30 DAYS AFTERWHICH IT MAY BE DESTROYED
DDI
WITHOUT ANY RECORD OF DESTRUCTION.
AO/NE
DOP
SIGNATURE OF PERSON SEEING TELEGRAM
DATE
ACOP
gekme
18 Dec 63
C/SAS
R.w.it thent
18 Lec
CWH
B. Richhardt

CS/RF

file

RETAIN COVER SHEET FOR 30 DAYS

EXP FORM BY
CABLE SEC, O/DCI, 17 APR 63
SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# JOINT TELEGRAM Department of State

-SECRET-

33

ACTION: EMBASSY MEXICO CITY
EMBASSY RIO DE JANEIRO
EMBASSY CARACAS 577
IMMEDIATE 1071
IMMEDIATE 829
DEC 17 12 20 '63

LIMIT DISTRIBUTION S/S

CARACAS PASS WARD ALLEN 035

FYI. 1. In connection Venezuelan complaint to OAS, discussions in Standing Group of NSC have identified two alternatives for cooperative system surveillance and interception of vessels and aircraft engaged in transporting arms for subversive purposes to Latin America (especially Caribbean area) directly or indirectly from Cuba. Difference between alternatives centers on need for OAS authorization for use of force in international waters.

2. Alternative A would require OAS authorization use of force in connection with visit-and-search in international waters against selected Cuban vessels and selected vessels OAS countries. It would be a cooperative system of surveillance and interception involving visit-and-search in international waters on a selective basis, with force to be used if necessary. Visit-and-search and, if resistance met, force would be applied by naval units of US or of cooperating OAS countries against selected vessels suspected of transporting arms from Cuba, directly or indirectly.

ARA/CCA: JHCrimmins:or/as 12/12/63 S/S:Mr. McKesson

White House - Mr. Bundy

SECRET

REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS PROHIBITED UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

Page 2 of telegram to AMENDASSY MEXICO, RIO AND CARACAS

SECRET

3. Alternative 5 would not require OAS authorizatio.. use force inasmuch as visit-and-scurch would take place only within territorial waters. It would be a cooperative system of surveillance and interception involving visit-and-search only within the territorial waters of an OAS country, with force to be applied, if necessary, by that country's forces or by forces of another OAS country acting under a bilateral agreement. Control of suspect vessels destined for non-OAS country or territory (e. g. British Guiana) would depend on cooperation that county.

4. In both alternatives interception or seizure of suspect aircraft would be carried out only in territory of AIS country of destination by forces of that country or of another OAS country acting under a bilateral agreement.

5. Comparison of alternatives:

(a) Alternative A would be much harder to sell to OAS countries than Alternative B because authorization for use of force rquired.

(b) Alternative A would be somewhat more effectiv both in fact and as deterrent than Alternative B, although both can be circumvented.

(c) Alternative A would constitute harassment of Castro whereas Alternative B is purely defensive.

(d) Alternative A would incur substantially greater risks of escalation than Alternative B.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Page 3 of telegram to Amembassies MEXICO CITY, RIO - INFO: CARACAS

SECRET

(a) Alternative A would be more expensive in terms of US units required than Alternative B.

6. Kind and number of additional measures which we would seek in OAS would vary with choice between alternatives. For example, our tentative thinking is that minimum OAS package acceptable to US under Alternative A would be: authorization use force; condemnation Castro regime; and reaffirmation and invigoration anti-subversive measures.

Under Alternative B, minimum package now estimated to be: defensive system with search and seizure within national territory; condemnation; reaffirmation anti-subversive measures; and obligatory break in air and surface communications between OAS countries and Cuba.

7. We consider attitude Mexico and Brasil critical. OAS vote authorizing use force in which one or other did not join would be politically undesirable. END FYI.

8. Action requested:

Chief of Mission should take first opportunity of conversation with FonMin on other matters to explore discreetly and informally indicating he acting personally and without instructions the probable receptivity of GOM (GOB) to an OAS resolution authorizing use force.

Ambassador should proceed on assumption report CAS investigation committee strongly

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Page 4 of telegram to: Amembassies MEXICO CITY, RIO: INFO: CARACAS

SECRET

strongly confirms Venezuelan charges and will be basis propaganda campaign to alert OAS governments and public opinion.

Report soonest.

GP-3

END

BALI.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

PPPP
MEXICO

12 December 1963

TELLO SCORES OAS POLICIES, CUBA EXCLUSION

Havana in English to Europe 2020 GMT 11 December 1963--E

(Text) Mexico City--Mexican Foreign Minister Manuel Tello criticized the Organization of American States, saying that it is in a state of crisis. Tello also criticized the exclusion of Cuba from that organization. In the interview with the Mexican daily NOVEDADES, Foreign Minister Tello said that Cuba's exclusion from the OAS is not in conformity with the OAS charter. He said that the charter does not contemplate the exclusion of any member state.

Referring to the present international situation of the OAS, Tello emphasized that an organization which does not base itself on friendship, cooperation, and tolerance is likely to face a crisis. The Mexican foreign minister stated that in the present state of the OAS, the elements or bases for the organization to strengthen democracy do not exist. He pointed out that contrary to agreements adopted at Chapultepec and Bogota, almost all the present Latin American representatives to the OAS are also their countries' ambassadors in Washington.

JAUREGUI INTERCEDES FOR BOLIVIA HOSTAGES

Lima AFP in Spanish 2357 GMT 11 December 1963--F OFFICIAL USE ONLY)

(Excerpts) Mexico City--Arturo Jauregui, secretary general of the Regional Inter-American Workers Organization (Organizacion Regional Interamericana de Trabajadores--ORIT), sent a personal request to Bolivian Vice President Juan Lechin on behalf of the foreigners held at Catavi as hostages.

The cable says: "I appeal to your labor union principles in the name of the 23 million ORIT member workers in favor of the hostages. These persons are well known as democrats working in favor of the spirit of humanity and social economic progress. The Bolivian revolution," the message adds, "demands that its prestige and vindication be held high."

- 0 -

DIPLOMAT'S RETURN--Swiss Ambassador to Mexico Fernand Bernoulli returned to Mexico after several months' absence. (Mexico City Radiodifusora Comerciales Spanish 2030 GMT 10 December 1963--P)

PUEBLA BUDGET--The Puebla municipal budget for 1964 shows an increase of 5 million pesos over that of the current year. (Mexico City Radiodifusora Comerciales Spanish 2330 GMT 10 December 1963--P)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

RRRR 1

PANAMA

12 December 1963

# PLAN OF TERRORISM IS UNFOLDING

David La Voz del Paru in Spanish 2100 GMT 11 December 1963--P

(Station commentary)

(Text) It appears as if a preconceived plan of terrorism, not known before in Panama, has been unleashed since members of our armed forces were at Fort Gulick. The barbarous death of labor Leader Aguilar, beaten and kicked in Puerto Armuelles; the beating of Indian Labor Leader Palacios Salines; the denunciation through a newspaper of a labor leader who was hanged and beaten in Colon; another case in Boquete; and many other known cases constitute pathetic proof of the plan.

If the objective of the wave of persecution is to attack the ideas of men with bullets, sticks, imprisonment, and other similar measures, it is a stupid move, because ideas are fought with ideas. If some of the humble class try to protest in defense of their rights, they are called communists. The privileged classes have used frequently this pretext against the working classes. If we analyze the situation we will see how the privileged classes have maintained their own monopolistic organization.

The oligarchic groups have greatly increased. Yesterday they could be represented in the two or three existing parties which were directed and governed by them; today, they have seen the need to increase the number of political parties, as much as 20 in a small country, in order to control the public administration. Each party is formed by a privilégiéd family whose only wish is to continue its life of leisure and luxury. This kind of life calls for plenty of money, so in order to obtain the money they need they increase each day the taxation of the poor, who must pay and thus sink deeper into poverty, disease, and ignorance.

If the people do not have work, they cannot earn money; and if they do not have money they cannot pay taxes. If the people try to organize in self-defense, they are accused of being communists, and they are fought with sticks. If the cause of all the evils of democracy is communism, the solution is obvious. We all know who invented communism, and who is living according to it and upholding it. The way to fight communism is to open sources of work to build schools, hospitals, and better roads.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

• DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (TEMPO FOR WH SLOTTED AT 2050-16 DEC 63)

INFO: ADDP/C/CI, C/FI 2, VR

ROUTING

1 4

2 5

3 6

SECRET 178113Z.

16 DEC 63 IN 81818

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 7418

RYBAT

ATTN GALBOND

REF MEXI 7400 (IN81653)

NO NIGHT ACTION

1. PEAK AND COS MET WITH LITENSOR ALONE AND WITHOUT SINGLE INTERRUPTION FOR ONE HOUR.

2. MEETING AT LITENSOR HOME.

3. LITENSOR INTENSELY INTERESTED, PEAK DID EXCELLENT PRESENTATION OF ENTIRE STORY.

4. LITENSOR SAID HE HAD HAVE *VERY LIMITED KNOWLEDGE OF STORY FROM VENEZUELANS* PRIOR TO THIS BRIEFING. HE WAS CONVINCED REPEAT CONVINCED THAT CASTRO GUILTY AND SAID AT END *CUBAN COMMUNISTS WILL NOT STOP WITH THIS DEFEAT*.

4. LITENSOR BEING GIVEN COPIES OF PAPERS AND PHOTOGRAPHS BROUGHT BY PEAK; HE INDICATED WISHED TO USE THESE.

6. NO MENTION OF ANY BRIEFING OF TELLO BY ANY OF THREE.

7. BOTH PEAK AND COS BELIEVE BRIEFING ASUCCESS.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![Addendum included here originates downgrading and declassifying.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CLA FIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

* DIRECTOR

FROM MEXICO CITY

ACTION. C/WH 5 (MH CD NOTIFIED AND COPY TUBEL 1615-16 DEC 63)

INFO ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, VR

SECRET 162007Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 7400

RYBAT

REF: MEXI 7391 (N80849)

16 DEC 63 IN 81653

ATTENTION: GALBOND

1.  LITENSOR RETURNED MEXI LATE MORNING 16 DEC.

2.  COS AND PEAKE HAVE APPOINTMENT WITH LITENSOR 1645 HRS
    MEXICAN TIME ON 16 DEC "FOR AS LONG AS YOU WISH".

3.  WILL ADVISE.

SECRET

CS COMMENT: BELIEVED EARLIEST DATE FOR LITENSOR BRIEFING WOULD BE
17 DECEMBER.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUP 1

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : CI/OPS, CI/OA, VR

SECRET 151956Z

DIR CITE MEXI 7399

1. WISH CALL HQ ATTENTION TO FACT THAT FOLLOWING STATION ACTIVITIES SUSPENDED FOR TRADITIONAL CHRISTMAS VACATIONS DURING PERIODS INDICATED:

A. LIEMVOY 22-29 DEC

B. LIMUD 14 DEC-1 JAN

C. LIKAYAK/2 22-29 DEC

D. LIEMBRACE ON STANDBY

E. LITEMPO ACTIVE, BUT AT "SLOW PACE".

16 DEC 63 IN 81702

2. ADDITIONALLY MOST GOVT SERVICES DRASTICALLY CURTAILED DURING HOLIDAYS INCLUDING ISSUANCE TRANSIT VISAS. THUS STATION VILL FOR ROUGHLY TWO WEEKS BE VIRTUALLY UNABLE CALL ON MANY USUAL SUPPORT POINTS EXCEPT IN EVENT EXTREME ENERGENCY.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

ORIG: B. Tichhardt:rg
UNIT: WH/3/Lexico
EXT : 5940
DATE: 12 Dec 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET/RYBAT
Destroy

TO : Mexico City
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: C/WH 5
INFO: DC, D/DC!, DDP, ADDP, C/500 4, C/CA 2, C/CA/O 2, C/CI, C/FI 2
C/SAS 5, VR

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 88863
RYBAT REF MEXI 73538

1. IN ADDITION TO REFERENCE REPORT, FBIS REPORT OF 11 DECEMBER
   SAYS TELLO, IN INTERVIEW WITH *NOVEDADES*, CRITICIZED OAS CLAIMING IT IN
   STATE OF CRISIS AND THAT CUBA'S EXCLUSION FROM CAS IS VIOLATION ITS
   CHARTER. THESE REPORTS SUGGEST TELLO DELIBERATELY ATTEMPTING PRE-
   ESTABLISH MEXICAN POLICY WITH REGARD CENSURE ACTION AGAINST CUBA. IN
   VIEW IMPORTANCE MEXICAN POSITION THIS RESPECT, THESE REPORTS MATTER OF
   CONSIDERABLE CONCERN HERE AND IT FELT NECESSARY TAKE APPROPRIATE ACTION
   COUNTER TELLO TACTICS IN WAY THAT WILL RESULT IN MEXICAN SUPPORT FOR
   STRONGER OAS ACTION.

2. HEADQUARTERS HAS CONVINCING INTELLIGENCE FROM VENEZUELAN SOURCES
   AS WELL AS OUR OWN WHICH SHOWS CONCLUSIVELY THAT ARMS DISCOVERED IN
   VENEZUELA ARE DISTINCTLY CUBAN. A NUMBER OF WEAPONS CAN BE IDENTIFIED
   AS ESPECIALLY DESIGNED FOR CUBAN ARMY. ARMS DISCOVERED IN GENERAL WERE
   OF A TYPE AND IN SUFFICIENT NUMBERS TO SUPPORT PLAN FOR TAKE-OVER OF
   CAPITAL CITY OF CARACAS. THEIR APPEARANCE IN VENEZUELA TIES IN SPECIFI-
   CALLY WITH KNOWN FALN PLANS WITH REGARD TO LOCATION AND TIMING. THE
   LATTER SUPPORTED BY DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE TAKEN FROM CAPTURED FALN MEMBERS

SECRET/RYBAT

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET/RYBAT

IM: DIRECTOR PAGE 2

INFO CITE DIR 88863

NOT YET SURFACED BY VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT. ABOVE INFORMATION F
UNDER PREPARATION FOR VISUAL PRESENTATION WILL BE SENT NEXT BY MOST
EXPEDITIOUS MEANS.

3. HEADQUARTERS' REQUESTS THIS INFORMATION BE BROUGHT TO THE
   ATTENTION OF LITENSOR IN MANNER CONVINCE HIM BEYOND DOUBT OF CURAN ROLE
   IN VENEZUELAN TERRORISTS ACTIVITIES. TO MAXIMIZE EFFECT IT FELS THAT
   THIS INFORMATION SHOULD BE ATTRIBUTED TO VENEZUELAN SOURCES TO THE
   GREATEST EXTENT POSSIBLE.

4. ADVISE IF YOU SEE COMPLICATIONS THIS APPROACH AND DO NOT HESITATE
   SUGGEST OTHER ACTIONS WHICH MIGHT BE UNDERTAKEN TO REVERSE TELLO STATE.

5. DRAFT OF THIS MESSAGE WAS SHOWN TO AMB. MANN.

END OF MESSAGE

*IN 18:07 - According to Manuel Tello, the Mexican position on the ceasure of Cuba by the OAS is "set."

![Signature of C. King]
R.W.Huether
C. KING
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

![Signature of W. Hood]
WH/CA H. PEAK (IN DRAFT)
COORDINATING OFFICERS

![Signature of J. M. Whitten]
Richbank
J. M. WHITTEN
C/WH/3

SECRET/RYBAT
REPRODUCTION BY OTIER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO' TED.

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
AUTHENTICATION OFFICERS
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

34 SECRET

ROUTING

1
4
2
5
3
6

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (MR REICHHARDT WH/3 NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 2100-13 DEC 63)

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/SCO 4, C/CA 2, C/CA/O 2, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, VR, C/CI

SECRET 1400352

PRIORITY ATA AITA NANS 9800 14 Dec 63 IN 80445

RYBAT
C/S COMMENT: REQUESTED INFO RE CUBAN ARMS DISCOVERED IN VENEZUELA BE BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF LITENSOR.

REF DIR 88863

1. COS CAN OF COURSE DELIVER REF INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO LITENSOR. SUGGEST HOWEVER THAT SUCH CLANDESITNE PASSAGE DOES NOT PLACE GOM IN POSITION WHERE POSITIVE COOPERATION OTHER OAS NATIONS, STIMULATED.

2. CERTAINLY GOV REALIZES MEXICAN POSTURE THIS MATTER EXTREMELY IMPORTANT. WOULD NOT GOV THEN BE WILLING SEND MEMBER BETANCOURT'S STAFF TO MEXI FOR PERSONAL MEETING LITENSOR TO PRESENT NEW DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE, PERHAPS IMMEDIATELY BEFORE INTERNATION SURFACING? SAME VENEZUELAN REP COULD HOLD PRESS CONFERENCE AFTER LITENSOR MEETING. THIS WOULD INSURE FULL PRESS COVERAGE, WITH EDITORIAL FOLLOW-UP BY STATION ASSETS. PERHAPS GOM WOULD FEEL FORCED TAKE MORE POSITIVE STAND BECAUSE OF FEAR LOCAL PUBLIC OPINION REACTION.

3. SHOULD GOV REP HAVE DIFFICULTY OBTAINING INTERVIEW LITENSOR COS MIGHT BE ABLE EXPEDITE.

4. IN ANY EVENT COS CAN DO SHOULD PARA TWO ACTION BE UNFEASIBLE.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

UNITI WH/3/Mexico
EXT : 5940
DATE: 13 Dec 63

TO : Mexico City
FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, VR

TO MEXI INFO
REF: DIR 88863

RYBAT

1. IT HAS NOW BEEN DECIDED TO SEND MR. HERSCHEL PEAK WITH THE
   VISUAL PRESENTATION AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION AND WOULD LIKE HIM TO
   DO THE ACTUAL BRIEFING IN SPANISH.

2. WHEN COULD A MEETING BE SET UP FOR CURTIS AND PEAK TO SEE
   LITENSOR? PEAK XXXXXXHX AVAILABLE TO LEAVE SUNDAY EASTERN AIRLINES
   FLIGHT 305 TO ARRIVE MEXI 10:05. ADVISE BY NOON 14 DEC RE MEETING
   SCHEDULE.

3. AMB MANN THINKS A BRIEFING OF FORMIN TELLO WOULD ALSO BE
   HELPFUL. AMB EXPECTS RETURN MEXI ON SEVENTEEN DEC. HIS PRESENCK
   MIGHT FACILITATE TELLO BRIEFING.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of C. King]

C. KING
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET RYBAT

![signature]

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH/5 (MR. REICHHARDT, WH, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1620, 14 DEC 63)BP

INFO: ADOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, VR

SECRET 141917Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7391

REF A MEXI 7389 (CIN 50168)

B DIR 89143

14 Dec 63

RYBAT

1. BELIEVE EARLIEST DATE FOR LITENSOR BRIEFING WILL BE TUBESDAY, 17 DECEMBER.

2. HE OUT OF MEXICO CITY UNTIL LATE NIGHT 15 DECEMBER, REPORTEDLY HAS FULL SCHEDULE ON 16 DECEMBER.

3. WILL REPORT IMMEDIATELY WHEN ABLE CONTACT LITENSOR PERSONALLY.

4. SUGGEST PEAKE ARRIVE ANY CONVENIENT TIME ON 16 DECEMBER, WILL MEET HAVE RESERVATIONS.

5. PLEASE ADVISE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *HAVE DECIDED TO HAVE MR. HERSCHEL TO DO THE DEBRIEFING.*

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![GROUP I, excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (MR REICHHARDT WH/3 NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 2120-13 DEC 63)

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CA/O 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, VR

SECRET 143138Z

IMMEDIATE DIR CITE MEXI 7389

14 DEC 63 IN 80468

RYBAT

REF A DIR 89143

B MEXI 7385 (IN 80445)

1. FOREIGN MINISTER TELLO HAS ALREADY EXPRESSED HIS BELIEF ARMS CACHE IS "A FRAME UP". MEXI STATION BELIEVES APPEARANCE OF PEAK OR OTHER UNKNOWN KUBARKER MIGHT ONLY INCREASE THIS DISBELIEF.

2. REF B APPARENTLY CROSSED REF A. STATION REQUESTS HQS GIVE SERIOUS CONSIDERATION PROPOSAL THAT BETANCOURT SEND PRE-BRIEFED REPRESENTATIVE. ONLY IN THIS MANNER CAN FULL PUBLIC EXPLOITATION BE ACHIEVED BY STATION, REGARDLESS OF REACTION OF LITENSON AND INDIVIDUAL MEXICANS.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET 311932Z

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/SR 4, D/OP, RF 2

DIR CITE MEXI 5570

RYBAT

REF: A. MEXI 3466 (SEE PARA 3)(IN 69474)

B. MEXI 1338 (SEE PARA 2)

C. HMNS 3009

31 JUL63IN90735

1.  FEINGLASS CANNOT REPEAT NOT DO SPANISH FROM TAPES.

2.  THIS HAS PUT STATION ON SPOT SINCE HAD INTENDED USE FEINGLASS DO RUSSIAN AND SPANISH ON SOVIET EMBASSY TAPES AND HAD UNDERSTOOD AS RESULT SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS REPEATEDLY LEVIED BY STATION THAT HE HAD SPANISH.

3.  FEINGLASS HAS SENT WRITTEN MEMO TO COS STATING HE WILL BE UNABLE DO SPANISH UNTIL AFTER REPEAT AFTER SOMETHING LIKE ONE YEAR OF ADDITIONAL STUDY.

4.  COS HAD INSISTED REPEATEDLY THAT SAFARANO REPLACEMENT OF ABLE DO SPANISH WELL ENOUGH TO GIVE TO LITENSOR. FEINGLASS WAS SENT BY HAS TO STATION WITH STATION UNDERSTANDING THIS TRUE.

5.  COS ATTEMPTING FIND ADDITIONAL WORK TO GIVE FEINGLASS BUT ALL WORK EXCEPT RUSSIAN TRANSLATION WILL BE CLERICAL AND HIGH PRICED CLERK. SEE REF B FOR TIME RUSSIAN TRANSLATIONS TAKE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

6. FEINGLASS IS CONSCIENTIOUS AND IT COS OPINION HE NOT TO
   BLAME FOR STATION MISUNDERSIND ING HIS LINGUISTIC CAPABILITIES.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *CABLE PRE-DATES CS FILES. COPY MAY BE SEEN IN CIA CABLE REFERENCE
FILE.*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# 50-6-75/2

ORIG:
W.H. CARLEY:jp
UNIT: WH/3/Mexico
EXT: 5940
DATE: 24 July 1963

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8

INFO: DDP, CI/IC 2, RI/AN, SAS 8, RF

TO: MEXI INFO CITE DIR 5644:
56443

PBRUMEN

REF: MEXI 5412 (IN 81732)*

SUGGEST CURTIS RAISE QUESTION OF VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTIONS OF LIENVOY PBRUMEN TAKE WITH DAINOLD WHILE LATTER MEXI. IN VIEW FACT THAT URQUHART (WHO ALSO NOW IN MEXI) IS PRINCIPAL END USER SUCH TAKE, DYVOUR FEELS THIS OPPORTUNITY TO SORT OUT WHAT VERBATIM TRANSCRIPTIONS NECESSARY FOR SAS PURPOSES AND WHAT ARE MEXI STATION CAPABILITIES HANDLE TRANSCRIPTION LOAD.

END OF MESSAGE

WH CMT: *Ref stated that SAS wanted verbatim transcriptions of LIENVOY PBRUMEN take and LIENVOY present staff could not handle.

| ROUTING  | INITIAL |
| -------- | ------- |
| RID/AN   |         |
| RID/IIS  |         |
| R/R      |         |
| RI/ITE   |         |
| WH/3/MEX |         |

W.C. KING
CWHD
RELEASING OFFICER

SAS/SO/AR

WH/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

R. WHITTEN
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE PROHIBITED. 50-6-75/2

FORM 1389a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO: CCS 2, OP 2, RF 2

SECRET 231903Z

DIR CITE MEXI 3458

REF DIR 55981

22 Jul 63 84648

1. AREHART WILLING REMAIN MEXI LONG AS NEED EXISTS. DID NOT REQUEST EXTENSION OR ANOTHER TOUR FOR TWO REASONS:

A. HE DISAPPOINTED THAT HQS DID NOT CONSIDER HIM FOR PROMOTION WHICH STATION FEELS HE CERTAINLY DESERVES AFTER THREE YEARS COMMENDABLE SERVICE IN VERY DIFFICULT OUTSIDE SENSITIVE JOB.

B. HE WARY HIS COVER STATUS SHOULD NEXT PRESIDERY NOT BE CONFIDANT LIELEGANT AND IT NECESSARY DISMANTLE LIENVOY.

2. MEXI AGAIN REQUESTS AREHART BE PROMOTED. PLS ADVISE. WILL SUBMIT NEW FRO WHEN FUTURE LIENVOY KNOWN AND SIX MONTHS PRIOR AREHART DESIRE REASSIGNMENT.

3. ANSWERING OTHER QUESTIONS REF IN SEPARATE CABLE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: REQUESTED STA DISCUSS POSSIBLE ONE YEAR EXTENSION WITH AREHART.

![GROUP 1 EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION. ]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

OFIIO: C. Disteside
File: WI/3/Mexico
File: 940
DATE: 18 July 1963

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8

INFO: RI/AN, OP 3, RF

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
Destroy

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 55521

REF: HMIT 3863*

1. REQUEST STATION DISCUSS POSSIBLE ONE YEAR EXTENSION WITH KULOVE CAREER SERVICE
   AREHART. HAS APPROVED. IF THIS NOT ACCEPTABLE
   REQUEST HE EXTEND TIL DECEMBER WHEN LIENVOY AND LICAPER FUTURES WILL BE DETERMINED PER MEXI 5412. AT PRESENT NO HANDY PROSPECT
   FOR REPLACEMENT AREHART. IF LICAPER CANNOT BE IMPLEMENTED, HORSFALL CAN REPLACE AREHART. CABLE DECISION ARHART.

2. IN VIEW STATION STAND ON LICAPER CITED MEXI 5412 SHOULD HDQS WITHHOLD REQUISITION FOR NEW LIENVOY EQUIPMENT UNTIL NOTIFIED BY STATION?

3. WILL CABLE LATER RE HORSFALL ETA.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *FRO on AREHART.

![signature of J.C. King]

C/HD
RELEASING OFFICER

CS/PO/S/A PANEL Mr. Koss (in Craft)

![signature]

WH/COPS

![signature]

COORDINATING OFFICERS

![signature of J.N. Whitten]

J.N. Whitten
/C/III/3
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

: DIRECTOR

OM: MEXICO CITY

TION: WH 8

FO : DDP, CI, CI/CPS, CI/IC 2, CI/OA, CCS 2, SAS 8, RF 2

SECRET 1722172

DIR CITE MEXI 5412

REF DIR 52792

INS1732

27 JUL

1.  NUCH IMPRESSED WITH HORSFALL. TRANSCRIPTION TESTS VERY

SATISFACTORY. BELIEVE LINGUISTIC CAPABILITY AND EXPERIENCE BUEN

AND BANG QUALIFY HIN EXCEPTIONALLY WILL FOR LICAPER SUPERVISOR

OR LIENVOY IF IT CONTINUES. APPEARS CAPABLE ADAPTING MEXICAN

PECULIARITIES AND NOT AVERSE BEING CUT OFF FROM OFFICIAL COLONY.

2.  MAIN QUESTION ONE OF TIMING. KNOW HE EAGER RETURN HERE

AND GET SETTLED. HOWEVER FEEL UNDESIRABLE EXPOSE HIM LIENVOY

PERSONNEL IF HE TO WORK ULTIMATELY IN LICAPER. DO NOT WISH LOSE HIM

HOWEVER AND CAN GUARANTEE KEEP HIN SUSY DOING PBBAND TRANSLATIONS

FOR LITENSOR AND LIENVOY PBRUYEN TAFES WHICH WOULD REMOVE FROM

LIENVOY FOR THIS PURPOSE. WE ARE TOLD SAS WANTS THESE VERSATIM

WHICH LIENVOY PRESENT STAFF CAN NOT HANDLE.

3.  STATION REQUESTS THEREFORE RETURN HORSFALL HERE SOON AS

FEASIBLE IN TOURIST STATUS. WOULD LIVE IN FURNISHED QUARTERS UNTIL

NEW PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE NAMED (EARLY OCTOBER AT LATEST)

AND FATE OF LIENVOY AND LICAPER KNOWN. AT THAT TIME CANDIDATE CON-

CERNED WOULD ARRANGE COVER AND SORSFALL STATUS WOULD CHANGE FROM

TOURIST AND HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS COULD BE BROUGHT IN. PLEASE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

- CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 81734 PAGE 2

AUTHORIZE HORSFALL BUY COMPACT OP VEHICLE HERE AT 41,000 PESO CEILING. WHEN PERTINENT HQ SHOULD ARRANGE HAVE HIS PIANO SHIPPED HERE TO SOMEONE STILL ELIGIBLE RECEIVE IT.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: "ORVILLE R. HORSFALL WILL ARRIVE MEXI 1243 HOURS WEDNESDAY 10 JULY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

DISPATCH KAPOK SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO:

FROM: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: LIENVOY Tapes for Training

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REF: HMMT-3694

Returned under separate cover are the 15 tapes which were furnished Headquarters for training purposes.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments:
15 LIENVOY Tapes u/s/c

Distribution:
O&1 - COS, Mexico City w/atts

---

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

HMMS-2960 18 June 1963

CLASSIFICATION HQS FILE NUMBER

SECRET-KAPOK

OFFICE OFFICER ORIGINATING EXT

WH/3/Mexico/Bustos:dd 5940

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME





RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

C/WHD 19 June 1963 J. C. King

DISPATCH

1 - RI

1 - Chrono

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
1-53


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

21 SECRET

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CA, S/C 2

SECRET 102344Z

IN36488 11 MAY 1963

DIR CITE MEXI 4544

RYBAT

ATTN: KNIGHT AND GALBOND

FOLLOWING FROM AMBASSADOR MANN TO ASST SECY MARTIN:

(MESSAGE CONTINUES ON NEXT PAGE)

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO CSSCP 210-313 CABLES. DISSEMINATION RESTRICTED. TEXT DIRECTED TO ANOTHER U.S. GOVT. ORGANIZATION.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

DATE: 10 MAY 63
FROM: MEXICO CITY
TO: DIRECTOR
RECD: MAY 11 01562 63
ROUTINE
IN 36488

FOLLOWING FROM AMBASSADOR MANN TO ASST SECY MARTIN:

"LOPEZ MATEOS, WHO IS EXTREMELY SENSITIVE TO FOREIGN OPINION,
HAS ASKED WIN SCOTT FOR COLLECTION OF U.S. VIEWS ON HIS
RECENT LATIN AMERICAN DENUCLEARIZATION PROPOSAL."

RECENTLY SCOTT FURNISHED LOPEZ MATEOS EUROPEAN NEWS CLIPPINGS
ON HIS TOUR, PARTICULARLY WEST BERLIN WALL INCIDENT. WHICH SEEMED
TO DISTRUB LOPEZ MATEOS BECAUSE HE WAS PRAISED BY EAST GERMAN
PRESS BUT CRITICIZED BY WESTERN PAPERS. ON NEW REQUEST SCOTT
TOLD LOPEZ MATEOS THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY BE ABLE FURNISH ONLY U.S.
NEWS MEDIA COVERAGE AND REACTION ON DENUCLEARIZATION AS HE, SCOTT,
DOES NOT DEAL AT OFFICIAL LEVEL ON SUCH POLICY MATTERS.

"BECAUSE OF (A) LOPEZ MATEOS' SENSITIVITY TO OPINION ABROAD:
(B) FACT THERE HAS BEEN NO REACTION FROM US OTHER THAN DEPT
PRESS RELEASE AND YOUR.CONVERSATION WITH CARRILLO FLORES (DEPT
CIRCULAR TELEGRAM 1878): AND (C) FACT THAT SOVIET, CUBAN AND POLISH
ANSASSADORS HERE HAVE PUBLICLY COMMENTED FAVORABLY ON PROPOSED
DENUCLEARIZATION, I SUGGEST WE CONSIDER FOLLOWING:

"PREPARE A CAREFUL STATEMENT IN WASHINGTON, ALONG LINES
YOUR REMARKS TO CARRILLO FLORES, COMMENTING AS FAVORABLY AS POSSIBLE
ON LOPEZ MATEOS'S DENUCLEARIZATION PROPOSAL WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET
PAGE 2

MEXICO CITY
IN 36488

OUR OWN POLICY POSITION WHICH I'M SURE HAS BEEN CAREFULLY WORKED OUT. THIS STATE'MENTCOULD BE ATTRIBUTED TO SOME SPECIFIC U.S. OFFICIAL OR TO UNIDENTIFIED HIGH OFFICIAL. IF APPROVED, SUGGEST BE SENT DIRECTLY TO SCOTT VIA CAS FOR CAS FOR DELIVERY TO LOPEZ MATEOS."

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

ORIG: C. BUSTOS
UNIT: WH/C/MEXICO □ INDEX
EXT: 5940 □ NO INDEX
DATE: 25 APRIL 1968 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8
INFO: PG 2, CI/OA, CCS 2, s/c

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO: MEXI INFO: MEXI 4238 (IN 21625) * CITE DIR: 35426

1. WHEN HMMT 3380 RECEIVED AT END JAN FOR BUDGET REASONS HQS DID NOT IMMEDIATELY SUBMIT LIENVOY PROJ AMENDMENT NEEDED TO PURCHASE NEW EQUIP. ESTIMATED COST FOR EQUIP WAS ROUGHLY $20,000. EQS ORIGINALLY UNDERSTOOD OLD EQUIP WOULD BE USED IN PROPOSED LITEMPO TAP CENTER AND CE UNIT.

2. WHEN HQS RECEIVED HMMA 20890 IN MID MARCH SAYING LITEMPO WOULD USE MEXICAN EQUIP AND STATION WAS SUBMITTING PROJ OUTLINE, HQS CONTINUED HOLD LIENVOY REQUEST TO REVIEW ENTIRE LITEMPO/LIENVOY TAP CENTER PROBLEM. HQS STILL AWAITING LITEMPO TAP PROJ.

3. IN VIEW LARGE COST HQS WONDERS WHETHER SECURITY STILL CALLS FOR REPLACEMENT EQUIP. HQS HAS RECEIVED NO WORD ON PROPOSED LIENVOY MOVE SINCE AUGUST 1962.

4. SO THAT HQS CAN AGAIN REVIEW REQUEST FOR LIENVOY EQUIP PLS SUBMIT SOONEST PROJ ON LITEMPO TAP UNIT AND MORE DETAILS OF PROPOSED LIENVOY MOVE. CANNOT JUSTIFY REPLACING EQUIP IF SITE NOT TO BE CHANGED, AND PREFER WAIT UNTIL FISCAL 64.

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

ORIG: C.
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

*   INDEX
*   NO INDEX
*   FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

page 2

INFO

1262

ROUTING
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CITE DIR

5. RELATED PROBLEM IS COVER FOR TARASOFF. PLS NOTIFY HQS
   YOUR DECISION AND DESIRED ETA DATE. SEE MEXI 3466.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment: When can Station expect LIENVOX equipment?

C/S COMMENT: (IN 69474)



R.lv Herbert
J. C. KING
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

WH/COPS W Hood
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

JOHN M. WHITTEN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

ORIG: W. JUOKINS:dd
UNIT: A WH/3/MEXICO
EXT.: 5940
DATE: 22 APRIL 1963

TO: Cxico CITY

'FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/RA, FI, TSD 5, s/c

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO MEXI INFO
REF: MEXI 4201 (IN 19807)*

25 AR63 18 582
DEFERRED SIG CEN
ROUTINE

CITE DIR 35066

1. HQS APPROVES LOAN OF ONE STERILE SPARE B-10 DIAL PULSE RECORDER TO DURKIN.

2. HQS URGES CLOSE SUPPORT TREASURY/NARCOTICS INVESTIGATIONS. MEXI MAY PROVIDE DURKIN WITH OCCASIONAL LIFEAT COVERAGE PROVIDED NO LIFEAT TAKE GIVEN TO MEXICANS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: William J. Durkin, Treasury rep assigned to Mexico investigating narcotics traffic, approached Station re dial recorder for phone tap on Mexican target.

TSD BRUCE LA ROSE (BY PHONE)

CI/OPS FRANK HUGHES F. 10. Hughes

CI/R&A/TC


RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

JOHN H. WHITTEN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

ACTIC:

4, S/C 2

SECRET 192345Z

DIR CITE MEXI 4238 20 APR 1963

REF HNMT-3383, 21 JAN 63

STATION WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHEN IT CAN EXPECT TO RECEIVE EQUIPMENT REQUESTED IN REF.

SECRET

IN21625

![signature] L&NUCY

559-35754-63

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN- GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

034

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ATE : 6 APR 63 24 S-E-C-R-E-T

ว : DIRECTOR

ROM : BONN

CTION: 8/WH 8

IFO : ADCP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/EE 3, S/C 2

INFO

ROUTING

APR 6 19212 63
SERVICE

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

BONN 4460 IN 12661 A
CITE

RYBAT

C/S COMMENT:

COMPLETE ADDRESS LINE TO READ:

"OPIM BRLN INFO OPIM DIR MEXI FRAN PARI CITE BONN 4460"

K

S-E-C-R-E-T GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICETECLASSEIGATION
Coov No:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# SECRET 061700Z

ACTION: C/WH 5*
INFO : DOP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, s/c 2

OPIM MEXI BONN INFO DIR FRAN CITE BRLN 2433 INI2861 6 APR 1963

RYBAT

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.
**NO RECORD IN CABLE SECRETARIAT AS OF 1730 6 APR.

REF BONN 4463 (NOT TO MEXI OR DIR) +

1. REF INDICATES ROMERO ADVISED BY TELEPHONE FROM MEXI THAT HE WOULD BE CONTACTED SRLN UPON ARRIVAL. WISH ADVISE ALL ADDEES THAT PRESIDENT MATEOS AND PARTY TOTALLING SEVENTY REPEAT SEVENTY VISITING BRLN SUNDAY 7 APRIL FOR TOTAL OF ONLY SIX HOURS, ARRIVING VIA CHARTER PANAN AIRCRAFT CIRCA 1000 HOURS LOCAL, WHERE WILL BE MET BY MAYOR OF BRLN ALBERTZ AND OTHER CITY OFFICIALS, WILL TOUR CITY, SEE WALL, VISIT MEXICO PLATZ, ATTEND LUNCH HOSTED BY SIEMENS FACTORY. PARTY DEPARTS 1600 HOURS LOCAL. AT NO TIME ARE ANY AMERICANS INCLUDED IN PARTY. SEE NO OPPORTUNITY AND LESS REASON ATTEMPT ESTABLISH CONTACT WITH ROMERO ESPECIALLY IN ABSENCE ANY MESSAGES FOR PRESIDENT MATEOS. NOTE PARTY IN BONN PAST THREE DAYS WHERE IT EVIDENTLY QUITE POSSIBLE APPROACH ROMERO IF SUCH NECESSARY. CANNOT IN ANY CASE MAKE APPROACH CLANDESTINELY SINCE WELCOMING PARTY AND BERLIN CITY GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS WILL BE PRESENT THROUGHOUT VISIT.

2. BONN: VIEW ABOVE REQUEST YOU ADVISE ROMERO ARRANGEMENTS FOR VISIT BRLN PRECLUDE SECURE CONTACT WHICH IN ANY CASE SEEMS UNNECESSARY VIEW SHORTNESS VISIT. UNLESS SPECIFICALLY ADVISED TO CONTRARY WILL NOT REPEAT NOT ATTEMPT APPROACH ROMERO.

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: -C/WH5

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2**

SECRET 060800Z

DIR INFO MEXI BONN CITE HAGU 3620 6 APR 1063 'INI2890

REF DIR 25991

1. STATION ATTEMPTS OFFER SERVICES TO PRESIDENT FRUSTRATED BY

A. LANGUAGE DIFFICULTIES WITH ROMERO. SPANISH SPEAKER CALLED HOTEL TWICE 3 APR WITH COMPLETE LACK OF RESPONSE ON PART PERSON WHO SAID HE WAS ROMERO.

B. ATTEMPTED CONTACT COL GRAMOS LATER 3 APR AND WAS TOLD BY ANOTHER ENGLISH SPEAKING COLONEL CARDUNAS THAT GRAMOS WAS IN MEXICO CITY.

C. UPON CALLING ROMERO AGAIN 4 APR WAS TOLD HE WAS NOT REG- ISTERED THERE.

2. REGRET FAILURE MAKE CONTACT BUT PRESUME THAT IF PRESIDENT HAD NEEDED STATION SERVICES HE WOULD HAVE HAD AIDE CALL NUMBER ALREADY PROVIDED IN HAGU 3494. (IN 90740)

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

**DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

***RE MEXICAN PRESIDENT MAKING TRIP TO GERMANY, FRANCE AND THE NETHERLANDS IN MARCH AND APRIL. DESIRES TO SEND MESSAGES TRRU KUBARK CHANNELS HQS AUTHORI CONTACT BETWEEN LOPEZ SECRETARY RUMERO AND ADDRESSEE STA.

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN- GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATED:. REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH COPY SLOTTED 1630 6 APR 63 BP)

INFO: DOP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 062006Z

OPIN BRLN MEXI INFO OPIM HAGU PRITY DIR CITE FRAN 7941

RYBAT 1 8 APR 1963 INI2901

REF BRLN 2433 (IN 12861)

BONN 4463

IN VIEW REFS, AS ROMERO HAS REQUESTED HE WILL BE FURNISHED TELEPHONE NUMBER IN BERLIN FOR EMERGENCY USE, ON 7 APRIL THUS EL.IMINATING NECESSITY FOR PERSONAL CONTACT BY BOB. ROMERO WILL BE GIVEN BCS OFFICE NUMBER BY WYKOFF FOR THIS PURPOSE, AND CAN GIVE HIS NAME STATING HAS MESSAGE TO LEAVE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYYOUR USED.

**RE MEXICAN PRESIDENT OFFICIAL VISIT TO ADDRESSEE COUNTRIES.

***NO RECORD IN CABLE SECRETARIAT AS OF 1715 6 APR 63.

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATEO:.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: C/WH 6 (WH COPY SLOTTED AT: 0415 6 APRIL 63) JA
INFO : ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 0537392
OPIM MEXI POLN INFO OPIM BONN PRITY DIR PARI HAGU CITE FRAN 7936
RYPAT 6 APR 1953 IN 12640
REF MEXI 1931 (IM 99541)
DIR 25991

1. CONTACT MADE AT PONN EVENING 5 APR WITH ROMERO WHO WITH PRESIDENT LOPEZ MATEOS AT THE TIME. PRESIDENT MATEOS TOOK WYKOFF ASIDE AND APOLOGIZED FOR MIXUP AT PARIS
   STATING HIS PEOPLE WERE AT FAULT AND WERE JUST BEING VERY CAREFUL. PRESIDENT STATED HE HAD NO MESSAGES FOR RELAY TODAY BUT WOULD LIKE TO ASK A FAVOR. SAID ALTHOUGH IT IS NOT KNOWN PUBLICLY THAT HE AND HIS PARTY ARE GOING TO PERLIN, AND IN FACT HAVE DENIED IT, THEY ARE PLANNING TO DO SO ON AFTERNOON 6 APRIL AND WOULD LIKE THE SAME SERVICE THERE AS HAVE BEEN EXTENDED TO HIM BY WYKOFF AND WITTENBERGER. WAS ADVISED IT WOULD BE ARRANGED. MATEOS SAID ALL THAT WOULD BE NECESSARY IN MAKING CONTACT IN BERLIN WOULD BE FOR THE PERSON CONTACTING ROMERO TO SAY HE WAS A FRIEND OF WIN SCOTT. MATEOS AND ROMERO STATED THEY PLANNING TO STAY IN BERLIN AT HOTEL KEMPINSKI, INDICATING WOULD BE THERE A DAY OR SO AND MAY BE RETURNING DICECTLY TO MEXICO CITY FROM BERLIN.

2. PERLIN: BACKGROUND TRAFFIC REING RELAYED OPIM. PRESIDENT ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS OF MEXICO MAKING OFFICIAL VISIT FRANCE, GERMANY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

11. 12640 PAGE 2

AND HOLLAND MARCH AND APRIL. COS MEXI IS IN CLANDESTINE CONTACT WITH
PRESIDENT WITH KNOWLEDGE OF ODACID. LOPEZ REQUESTED NAMES OF
FRIENDS OF COS MEXI. IN PARI, RONN, HAGUE WHO COULD CONTACT HIS
PRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO (PEREZ) AT EACH PLACE DURING VISIT.
LOPEZ WILL WANT TO SEND AND RECEIVE MESSAGE THROUGH KUBARK COMMO
CHANVELS TO AND FROM HIGH MEXICAN OFFICIALS AND ALSO KURARK MEXI.
HE DOES NOT TRUST HIS OWN FOREIGN SERVICE COMMO. HOS AUTHORIZED
CONTACT BETWEEN LOPEZ SECRETARY ROMERO AND KUBARK STATIONS TO
PICK UP AND DELIVER MESSAGES. ROMERO SPEAKS GOOD ENGLISH AND
STATION OFFICER MUST USE ALIAS. INITIAL CONTACT TO ROMERO CAN BE
MADE USING WIN SCOTTS NAME AS DESCRIBED. PARI HAS USED NAME
VITTENBERGER IN CONTACTING ROMERO AND THE NAME JOHN WYKOFF WAS
USED IN PONN. FURTHER DETAILS FOLLOW.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: C/WH 8 (COPY TC WH (ACTION) AND EE (INFO) 0600 5 APRIL 63) JA
INFO : ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

SECRET 0610302
OPIM BRLN INFO OPIM DIR MEXI FRAN CITE BONN 4460
RYBAT
REF FRAN 7936 (12641)
INI2661

1. LOPEZ AND PARTY NOW DEPARTING BONN FOR BRLN 0740
   HOURS 7 APR.

2. LAPOLLA AS VYKOFF TALKED AT BONN TO ROMERO NOT LOPEZ. LAPOLLA APOLOGIZED TO ROMERO FOR MIXUP AT PARIS RATHER THAN LOPEZ APOLOGIZING TO LAPOLLA.

3. FOR BRLN: DUE TO ROMERO PRESS OF BUSINESS PHONE CALLS. MAY NOT ESTABLISH CONTACT. MAY BE NECESSARY TO CAMP IN HOTEL LOBBY AND CONTACT ROMERO ENTERING OR LEAVING AS WAS DONE AT BONN.

4. FOR FRAN: LAPOLLA AND THOMPFORD WILL REMAIN BONN UNTIL LOPEZ DEPARTURE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.*

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN.
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATIO 1.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: C/WH 5*
INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2
INFO:

SECRET 021552Z

OPIM MEXI INFO DIR BONN HAGU PARI CITE FRAN 7814

RYBAT

REF PARI 7113 (97152) 2 APR 1963 :IN99428

RE PARA THREE REF SHOULD WE CONTACT GRAMOS OR ROMERO.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

**SUGGESTED MEH IDENTIFY GRAMDS SINCE HE VERY DEFINITE THAT HE AV COURANT ON CONTACT AND THAT ROMERO NOT.

![Signature]

SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

ACTION: C/AH 5

INFO : ADCP, C/CI, C/EE 3, C/E 2, S/C 2

SECRET 6217452

OPIN FRAN INFO ROUTINE DIR BONN MAGU CITE MEXI 4031 (OUSLER ACTING)

RYBAT

REF: FRAN 7:54 (182003)

2 APR 1953 IN99541

APPRECIATE ATTEMPT CONTACT ROMERO. IF THIS DIFFICULT OR
IMPOSSIBLE THEN CONTACT GRANOS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *APPARENTLY WRONG REFERENCE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

ACTION: C/HW 5 (WE AND WH COPIES SLOTTED AT 1400 29 MAR OJ)

INFO: ADOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 291638Z IN 97152

PRITY MEXI INFO PRITY DIR BONN FRAN ROUTINE HAGU CITE PARI 7113

RYBAT 29 MAR 1963 1N9715

REF PARI 7092 (IN96410)

1. REGRET HAVING TO REPORT THAT SOLUTION OF MYSTERY OF TWO WITTEN- BERGERS IS CLASSIC EXAMPLE OF LEFT AND RIGHT HANDS OPERATING IDEPEND- ENTLY: I.E., UNCOORDINATED EFFORT BY TWO STATION OFFICERS TO ESTABLISH CONTACT. CONFUSION ON PART OF MEXICANS CERTAINLY UNDERSTANDABLE.

2. NIGHT 28 MARICH TELEPHONE CONTACT WAS MADE WITH LT COL GRAMOS WHO IMMEDIATELY STATED HE PERSON PARI SUPPOSED BE TALKING TO AND ROMERO NOT AWARE WHAT GOING ON. GRAMOS STATED WOULD RETURN CALL TO CASE OFFICER DURING NIGHT. DID NOT DO SO. TELEPHONE CONTACT EARLY MORNING 29 MARCH PRODUCED RESPONSE FROM GRAMOS TO EFFECT HE HAD NO NEED OUR SERVICES.

3. SUGGEST MEXI IDENTIFY GRAMOS SINCE HE VERY DEFINITE THAT HE AU COURANT ON CONTACT AND THAT ROMERO NOT.

4. FOR BONN, FRAN, HAGU: HIGHLY DESIRABLE THAT KUBARK CONTACT SPEAK SPANISH.

5. HOPE VILLARD C. CURTIS IN DUE COURSE WILL APOLOGIZE TO ROMERO IN OUR BEHALF FOR MIX-UP.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUT USED...

**RE ALLEGED WITTENBERGER AND "OTHER WITTENBERGER".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: C/WH 5(WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1500, 28 MAR OU)

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 281839Z

OPIM MEXI INFO OPIM DIR PRITY FRAN BONN ROUTINE HAGU CITE PARI 7092

RYBAT

REF A. PARI 7042 (NOT SENT BONN HAGU) IN96410

B. MEXI 3947

1. FURTHER REPEATED EFFORTS CONTACT ROMERO HAVE SEEN TOTALLY FRUSTRATED BY AIDE TO ROMERO, LT. RODRIGUEZ, WHO REFUSES PERMIT "WITTEN- BERGER" TALK TO ROMERO, EVEN WHEN HE AVAILABLE, WHICH IS RARE BECAUSE OF NUMEROUS OFFICIAL CEREMONIES. WHEN WETHERILL CALLED MORNING 28 MARCH, RODRIGUEZ SAID ROMERO HAD JUST TALKED TO WITTENBERGER AND MADE APPOINT- MENT WITH HIM FOR FIVE O'CLOCK SAME AFTERNOON. WHEN WETHRILL SAID THIS IMPOSSIBLE, R INSISTED HAD BEEN PRESENT DURING CONVERSATION.

2. WETHERILL CALLED AT 800 HRS, ASKED IF ALLEGED WITTENBERGER HAD APPEARED ON SCHEDULE. RODRIGUEZ COUNTERED BY ASKING NAME WETHERILL'S SECRETARY. GAVE HIM FIRST NAME. R SAID WOULD CALL BACK, AND HAS NOT DONE SO. BELIEVE THIS IS END OF THE LINE. ONLY ALTERNATIVE AT THIS POINT IS TO ABANDON COMPLETELY SECURITY WHICH ALREADY BADLY LACERATED.

3. ONLY EXPLANATION WE CAN OFFER FOR STORY OF OTHER VITTENBERGER" IS THAT RODRIGUEZ AND ROMERO DECIDED WETHERILL/WITTENBERGER WAS CRACK- POT, AND APPROPRIATE GIVE HIM SOME OF OWN MEDICINE.

4. IN LIGHT THIS EXPERIENCE SUGGEST RECONSIDERIYNDWYAULIPFBMT STATIONS TRYING CONTACT ROMERO. HOPE MEXI WILL EVENTUALLY LEARN TRUE STORY "OTHER WITTENBERGER", SINCE NOT IMPOSSIBLE FRENCH (WHO UNDOUBTEDLY

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN- GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE ISPROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

ACTION:
INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
# SECRET

E 2

IN 96410 PARI 7092

MONITORING PALAIS D'ORSAY PHONE) HAVE BEEN PLAYING GAMES, ALTHO THIS
HARDLY MAKES SENSE.

5. VE THOUGHT MEXICANS WERE SUPPOSED TO BE SO FRIENDLY.

# SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUGGESTED WYKOFF AND STRATFORD CALL ROMERO SAY FRIENDS OF WINSTON SCOTT'S IN MEXI AND ASK IF CAN BE OF SERVICE TO PRESIDENT AND SAY WELL CALL AGAIN.*

S/C NOTE: PORTION GARBLED-BEING SVCD.

# SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE ISPROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

DATE :
```
092
28 MAR 63
```
21

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: PARIS

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
```
SECRET
```
ROUTING

1
4
2
5
3
6

MAR 29 0130Z 63
SERVICE

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 96410 A PARI 7092

TO INFO CITE

RYBAT

C/S COMMENT: COMPLETE PARA 4, LINES 1 AND 2 TO READ:

"4. IN LIGHT THIS EXPERIENCE SUGGEST RECONSIDER DESIREABILITY OTHER STATIONS TRYING CONTACT ROMERO. HOPE MEXI WILL EVENTUALLY LEARN TRUE..."

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : AGOP, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 281902Z

OPIN FRAN INFO DIR BONN PARI HAGU CITE KEXI 3967

RYBAT

REF FRAN 7672 (95990) *

YES.

SECRET

28 MAR 1963 IN96402

CS COMMENT: REQUESTED IS DATA PARA ONE REF 5 APR.

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE ISPROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO: ADOP, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, D/OC 2, S/C 2

SECRET 231052Z

OPIM KEXI INFO DIR BONN PARI HAGU CITE FRAN 7672 4N93990

RYSAT 28 MAR 1963

REF NEKI 3947(95547)*

IS DATA PARA ONE REF 5 APRIL?

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *RE DATE LOPEZ MATEOS SCHEDULED ARRIVE IN BONN.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

ACTION: C/WH 5 (C/WH COPY SLOTTED AT 0655 27 MAR 63 JA)

INFO: ADSP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, D/OC 2, S/C 2

SECRET 271104Z 27 MAR 1963

OPIN DIR INFO OPIN MEXI ROUTINE FRAN CITE PARI 7042

RYBAT IN95070

1. HAVING DETERMINED THAT ROMERO STAYING WITH LOPEZ NATEOS AT OFFICIAL GUEST RESIDENCE, PALAIS D'ORSAY, WETHERILL TRIED CONTACT HIM BY PHONE EVENING 26 MARCH. TALKED TO UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER ENTOURAGE WHO SAID ROMERO NOT THERE BUT RETURNING SHORTLY. WETHERILL GAVE NAME WITTENBERGER, FRIEND OF SENOR BLANCO, TIO, ETC. CALLED BACK LATER, GOT SAME MAN WHO SAID HAD GIVEN VITTEN- BERGER NAME TO ROMERO, WHO DID NOT RECOGNIZE IT, OR KNOW WHO SENOR BLANCO WAS. WOULD NOT PUT ROMERO ON PHONE WITHOUT FURTHER EX- PLANATION OF WHAT BUSINESS WITTENBERGER HAD WITH ROMERO. IN VIEW INCREASINGLY AWKWARD SECURITY SITUATION, WETHERILL BROKE OFF CON- VERSATION.

2. SUBSEQUENTLY DELIVERED PERSONAL NOTE TO PALAIS D'ORSAY FOR ROMERO SUING SAME RECOGNITION NAMES AND GIVING TWO PHONE NUMBERS FOR CONTACT, ONE EMBASSY, ONE HOME. HAVE HEARD NOTHING.

3. MEXI: PLS GIVE US SOME FURTHER IDENTIFICATION MATERIAL VE CAN USE ON PHONE WITH ANY ONE WHO ANSWERS PHONE IN PRESIDENTIAL SUITE. WAS ROMERO ACTUALLY GIVEN NAME WITTENBERGER?

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *LOPEZ REQUESTED NAMES OF FRIENDS OD COS MEXI IN ADDRESSEE CITIES WHO COULD CONTACT HIS PRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO AT EACH PLACE DURING VISIT. WILL USE KUBARK COMMO CHANNELS.

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN- GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, D/OC 2, S/C 2

SECRET.2719492

PRITY FRAN INFO DIR PARI BONN HAGU CITE MEXI 3947 IN95547

RYBAT 27 MAR 1963

REF FRAN 7605 (NOT SENT HAGU)(IN 94-458)

1. PRESIDENT LOPEZ MATEOS SCHEDULED ARRIVE IN BONN AT 1200 HOURS (BONN TIME) GO TO INFORMAL LUNCH AT 1300 HOURS.

2. HE AND PARTY STAYING AT KOENIGSHOF.

3. REAL NAME OF CONTACT IN MEXICO IS WINSTON SCOTT. ROMERO KNOWS PERSONALLY AND IS AWARE PRESIDENT IS CONTACT AND FRIEND.

4. PRESIDENT'S MAIN CONCERN IS FOR MESSAGES FROM MEXICO IF REPEAT IF ANY SENSITIVE MATTERS LOCALS (ONE OF WHOM ACTING CHIEF OF MEXICAN GOVERNMENT) WHO CONTACTS OF SCOTT WISH SEND TO HIM BY KUBARK CHANNELS.

5. PRESIDENT GIVEN NAMES OF FRIENDS OF SCOTT (PER DIR-25991) IN PARIS, BONN, HAGUE, BUT, FROM PARIS, IT OBVIOUS HE HAS NOT BRIEFED ROMERO.

6. SUGGEST, THEREFORE, WYKOFF AND STRATFORD CALL ROMERO SAY FRIENDS OF WINSTON SCOTT'S IN MEXICO AND ASK IF CAN BE OF SERVICE TO PRESIDENT AND SAY VILL CALL AGAIN.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED ANY WORD IF ARRIVAL DATE NOW ANTICIPATED OF LOPEZ MATEOS IN BONN AND NAME IF HOTEL HE PLANNING TO STAY THERE.

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE ISPROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 271634Z

OPIM PARI INFO DIR CITE MEXI 3944

REF: PARI 7042

IN95416 27 MAR 1963

1. REAL NAME IS WINSTON SCOTT. ROMERO KNOWS PERSONALLY AND IS AWARE PRESIDENT IS CONTACT AND FRIEND.

2. PRESIDENT HAS BEEN ADVISED OF CHANNELS AND NAMES OF CONTACTS IN PARIS, BONN, HAGUE. HE OBVIOUSLY HAS NOT BRIEFED ROMERO.

3. SUGGEST BONN, HAGUE MERELY LEAVE NAME AND SAY WILL CALL AGAIN TO SEE IF MESSAGE.

4. PRESIDENT'S MAIN CONCERN WILL BE FOR MESSAGES FROM MEXICO IF REPEAT IF ANY SENSITIVE MATTERS LOCALS (ONE OF ACTING CHIEF OF MEXICAN GOVT) WHO CONTACTS OF SCOTT WISH SEND TO HIM BY KUBARK SECURE CHANNEL.

5. LITEMPO/2, LIELEGANT AND LIERGO ALL AWARE OF CHANNELS TO PARIS, BONN, THE HAGUE AND WILL USE IF HAVE SUCH MESSAGES.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

**REQUESTED FURTHER IDENTIFICATION MATERIAL COULD USE ON PHONE WITH ANYONE WHO ANSWERS PHONE IN PRESIDENTIAL SUITE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO OOP, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, D/OC 2, S/C 2

SECRET 261345Z

PARI INFO BONN DIR MEXI CITE FRAN 7605 26 MAR 1963 IN94458

RYBAT OOLONG

REF DIR 25991

DO YOU HAVE ANY RECENT WORD OF ARRIVAL DATE NOW ANTICIPATED
OF LOPEZ MATEOS IN BONN, AND NAME OF HOTEL WHERE HE PLANNING
TO STAY THERE. WE HAVE DATE OF 5 APRIL AND WOULD LIKE TO CONFIRM
THIS IF POSSIBLE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

**CONCERNED EUROPEAN TRIP OF LOPEX MATEOS.

GROUP 1

SECRET
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DEGLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

ACTION: C/MH 5°
INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/VE 2, S/C 2.

SECRET 201455Z

*   MEXI DIR CITE HAGU 3494
*   RYBAT
*   REF DIR 25991

21 MAR 1963 IN90740

CONFIRMING RECEIPT REF INSTRUCTIONS HAGUE PHONE NUMBER IS

11 32 10.
SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

**REQUESTED STERILE PHONE NUMBER FOR CONTACT FOR ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEAOS.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

ORIG: D.C.
UNIT: O ED
EXT: 5477
DATE: 20 MARCH 1963

TO : BONN, PARIS, HAGUE, MEXICO CITY INFO: LONDON, FRANKFURT

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: D/OC 2

INFO: DCP, ADCP, C/FF 2, C/WC 2, C/WH ?, S/C

TO BONN, PARI, HAGU, MEXI INFO LOND, FRAN

CITE DIR 26254
RYBAT OOLONG

REF DIR 25991 (NOT SENT LOND, FRAN)

1. RYBAT REF ALERTS ADDEES TO OFFICIAL VISIT THEIR COUNTRIES BY ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS, PRESIDENT OF MEXICO, MARCH AND APRIL. ALSO AUTHORIZES AND SETS UP ARRANGEMENTS FOR LOPEZ SEND/RECEIVE MESSAGES TAPU KUBARK CHANNELS TO AND FROM HIGH MEXICAN OFFICIALS AND KUBARK MEXI.

2. FOR CLEAR UNDERSTANDING ALL CONCERNED OF COMMUNICATIONS PROCEDURES, FOLLOWING IS ESTABLISHED.

A. ALL TRAFFIC FROM FIELD (LOPEZ LOCATION) WILL BE ADDRESSED MEXI INFO DIR; CPIM; RYBAT; WITH PILOT "FROM LOPEZ."

B. ALL TRAFFIC TO FIELD (LOPEZ LOCATION) WILL BE ADDRESSED TO STATION INFO DIR; OPTM, RIBAT; WITH PILOT "FOR LOPEZ."

C. COMMUNICATORS WILL ZFF ALL TRANSMISSION.

IF CIPHER TEXT SHOULD BE RECEIVED FOR TRANSMISSION, A AND STILL APPLY.

3. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD KUCIUS PERSONNEL BE USED PICK UP OR DELIVERY TRAFFIC.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: C. BUSTOS:dd
UNIT: WH/3/MEXICO
EXT: 5940
DATE 19 HAGL 1963

SECRET

TO : BONN PARIS HAQUE MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 2, C/WE 2, p/oc2, S/C

TO BONN PARI HAGU INFO OPIM MEXX CITE DIR 25991

RYBAT
FOR IMMEDIATE ACTION
REF: MEXI 3810 (IN 87887)*

1. ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS, MEXICAN PRESIDENT, MAKING OFFICIAL VISIT

ADDRESSEE COUNTRIES MARCH AND AP: IL. COS MEXI IS IN CLANDESTINE CONTACT WITH PRESIDENT WITH KNOWLEDGE OF OUACID. LOPEZ REQUESTED NAMES OF FRIENDS OF COS MEXI ED IN ADDRESSEE CITIES WHO COULD CONTACT HIS PRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO (PEREZ) AT EACH PLACE DURING VISIT.

2. LOPEZ WILL WANT TO SEND AND RECEIVE MESSAGES THROUGH KUBARK COMMO CHANNELS TO AND FROM HIGH MEXICAN OFFICIALS AND ALSO KUBARK MEXI. HE DOES NOT TRUST HIS OWN FOREIGN SERVICE COMMO.

3. HQ AUTHORIZES CONTACT BETWEEN LOPEZ SECRETARY ROMERO AND ADDRESSEE STATIONS TO PICK UP AND DELIVER MESSAGES. ROMERO SPEAKS GOOD ENGLISH AND STATION OFFICER MUST USE ALIKS AND GIVE ROMERO STERILE PHONE NUMBER OR OFFICE PHONE NOT READILY TRACKABLE TO KUBARK. IDENTIFY SELF AS FRIEND OF SENOR BLANCO," OR "FRIEND OF TIO", NAMES WHICH LOPEZ USES TO REFER TO COS MEXI. INITIAL CONTACT TO ROMERO CAN BE MADE BY PHONE OR IN PERSON AFTER HE ARRIVES AND SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS SHOULD BE HELD UNDER CONDITIONS AS SECURE AS CIRCUMSTANCES PERMIT, TO AVOID IDENTIFYING

RELEASING OFFICER.

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER. THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT
DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

TO

INFO


[Figure: Routing Table]

* INDEX
* NO INDEX
* FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

12-62

ROUTING

1
4
2
5
3
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PAGE 2

CITE DIR
25991

KUBARK PERSONNEL TO MEXICANS.

4. STATIONS SHOULD USE THESE ALISSES:

HAGU BILL STRATFORD

PARI JOE WITTENBERGER

BONN JOHN WYKOFF

5. ALTHOUGH ROMERO IS KNOWN TO HAVE HAD FREQUENT AND FRIENDLY CONTACTS WITH SUCH INTERNATIONAL COMMUNIST FIGURES AS LOMBARDO TOLEDANO AND WITH MEXICAN COMMUNISTS, MEXI CONSIDERS HIM NOT A BAD SECURITY RISK AND HAS PASSED INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL THROUGH HIM FOR SOME TIME..

6. FOR MEXI: PIS PASS ABOZE ALLASES TO ROMERO, CABIE LOPEZ ITINERARY TO
   (AND IF POSSIBLE WHERE TELEPHONE/CAN BE MADE TO ROMERO,
   ALL ADDRESSEES PLS TELL HIM KUBARK ERABLE PROVIDE ANY COMMO FACILITY AT BELGRADE
   NOT
   AND WARSAW.

END OF MESSA TE

WE COMMENT: Pres Adolfo Lopez Mateos req names of friends of COS in Paris, Belgrade, Warsaw, Bonn and the Hague who would contact with him his private secretary Humberto Romero (Perez) at sach of these places during visit.

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

[Figure: SECRET]

[Figure: GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declass.co.CA]

Copy No,

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
PAGE 3
CONF:
INFO:

TO
INFO
CITE DIR
25991

COORDINATIONS
WF/3
Ocoluta
WE/2
foe wegealy
EE/3
C/WH/3
CHE
WOReyen
DC/EE
T.A. Uhiman
WH/COPS

Richard Enins
DDP

R.W.luuk
J. C. KING
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED 1315 /16 MAR/LMG)
INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 2, C/WE 2, S/C 2

SECRET 161600Z

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 3810

RYBAT LIENVOY 16 MAR 1963 IN87887.

REF DIR 25228*

1. PRESIDENT ADOLFO LOPEZ MATEOS REQUESTED ON 16 MARCH NAMES
   OF FRIENDS OF COS IN PARIS BELGRADE, WARSAW, BONN AND THE HAGUE
   WHO COULD CONTACT HIS PRIVATE SECRETARY HUMBERTO ROMERO (PEREZ)
   AT EACH OF THESE PLACES DURING VISIT.

2. PRESIDENT WANTS THIS CHANNEL SO THAT LIERGO, LITEMPO/2,
   LIELEGANT AND CURTIS CAN SEND HIM "SECURELY" ANY MESSAGE THEY
   CONSIDER OF INTEREST. (NOTE: PRESIDENT REITERATED THAT HE DOES
   NOT TRUST HIS OWN FOREIGN SERVICE CHANNEL AND SAID IS AFRAID OF
   HIS COMMUNICATION LINKS FOR VERY SENSITIVE INFORMATION)

3. REALIZE THIS DIFFICULT REQUEST MAKE OF HQS BUT WOULD
   APPRECIATE SERIOUS CONSIDERATION IN VIEW OF PRESENT AND FUTURE
   RELATIONSHIP.

4. PERSONS CONTACTING ROMERO COULD USE "FRIEND OF TIO" OR
   "FRIEND OF SENOR BLANCO SINCE PRESIDENT FREQUENTLY REFERS TO CURTIS
   AS "TIO" AND AS "SENOR BLANCO" OF " BLANCO DIPLOMACIA."

5. APPRECIATE EARLY REPLY.

SECRET
C/S COMMENT: * Headquarters forwarded briefing material for LITENSOR(5)
European trip which the Mexico City station may select, edit and translate the
material it considers most appropriate.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

ACTION: C/WH 5(COPY ISSUED TO WH AT 1415, 15 MAR LMG)

INFO: ADDP, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

SECRET 1517102

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 3789

RYBAT BEDOX 15 MAR 1963 .IN87153

REF A. DIR 24811

B. HMMW-11374

1. STATION RECD S/C ATTCH TO REF B 13 MAR 63 IN POUCH NUMBER 7854. NO STATION RECORD RECEIPT OF COVERING DISPATCH.

2. PLEASE SUMMARIZE CONTENT OF REF B AND CABLE SOONEST TO STATION.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR DYVOUR USED.

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: N-JUDKINSadd
UNIT: WE/3/MEXICO
EXT: 5940
DATE: 15 MARCH 1953

SECRET

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: DDP, ADCP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/SAS 5, S/C

|     |
| --- |
| 1   |
| 2   |
| 3   |

S-OR

ROUTING

|     |
| --- |
| 4   |
| 5   |
| 6   |

15 MAR 53 22 54z

DEFBOCEN

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

CITE DIR

25228

TO: PRITY MEXI
INFO:

RYBAT REDERE LITENSOR

REFS: A. HMHW-11374*

B. MEXI 3789 (IN 07153)**

1. REF A POUCHED BY ERROR 14. MAR. SUMMARY AS FOLL:

A. MATERIALS PREPARED BY KUMONK AND KUWOLF. TO EXPEDITE POUCHING
HQS DEFERS FURTHER EDITING TO MEXI. MEXI MAY SELECT, EDIT AND TRANSLATE
MATERIAL IT CONSIDERS MOST APPROPRIATE.

B. ATT A IS LIST OF REFS TO PERFINIENT ARTICLES IN SPECIFIC ISSUES
CURRENT INTEL WEEKLY SUMMARIES.

C. ATT B CONTAINS KUWOLF PREPARED MATERIALS NOT SENT MEXI EXCEPT
CUBA ITEM. THESE MAY BE USED TO PROMOTES CDYOKE POSITION ON COMMON MARKET,
BERLIN PROBLEM, CUBA, ETC.

D. ATT C COMPILED BY KUMONK. INCLUDES BIO SKETCHES ON OFFICIALS
EACH COUNTRY WITH WHOM LITENSOR WILL FROBABLY MEET DURING TRIP. MEXI
MAY NOT PASS BIO IFO THROUGH WHICH LINE IS DRAWN.

WH/COPS
END OF MESSAGE
LIM COHENT: Forwarded LITENISOR BRIFFING MATERIALS
*Requested cable summary of Ref A

J. C. KING
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

JOHN N. NIITIEN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPPODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

ORIG: C. BUSTOS:dd
UNIT: WH/3/MEXICO
EXT: 5940
DATE: 14 MARCH 1963

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

15 MAR 53 42z

SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO: MAXI INFO CITE DIR 24990

RYBAT LITENSOR

REF: MEXI 3575 (IN 75331)*

IN ADDITION BRIEFINGS REQUESTED BY SUBJECT, SUGGEST COS GIVE SUBJECT GENERAL CI DEFENSIVE BRIEFING INCLUDING USE TECH DEVISES.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *LITENSOR has asked for briefing papers on trip.

![signature of J. C. SING]
J. C. SING
C/HRD
RELEASING OFFICER

![signature of F. HUGHES] GI/OG/WI F. HUGHES (IN DRAFT) WI/COPS
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

![signature of JOHN H. WHITTEN]
JOHN H. WHITTEN
C/WI/3
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# OGG: N. JUDKINS:dd
UNIT: FTV-ATTOO
EXT: 59.0
DATE: 13 MARCH 1963

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/HF 5

INFO: ALD-, C/CA 2. C/C1, C/F1 2, C/CE 3, C/SR b, S/C

TO: RYBAT EEDOX

INFO CITE DIR 24811

REFS: A. EHOW-11374

B. HINI 37:3

1. LITENSOR BRIEFING PAPERS POTCHED REF A 3 MAR. ETA 11 MAR.

2. FOIL SUMMARIZES BACKGROUND ON FOLICY RE RAPACKI PLAN:

A. THE POLISH PROPOSAL FOR CRYTRAL EUROPEAN NUCISAR-FREE ZONE INTRODUCED
AT 2 OCT 57 SESSION OF UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY BY POLISH FOREIGN MINISTER, ADAM
RAPACKI. ACTING AS SPOKESMAN FOR FOLISH GOVERNMENT HE FORTULATED PROPOCAL:
SHOULD EAST AND WEST GERMANY AGREE TO BAN ON PRODUCTION AND STORAGE NUCLEAR
WEAPONS ON THEIR TERRITORIES, POLAND WOULD SIMULTANEOUSLY INTRODUCE IDENTICAL BAN
ON HER TERRITORY. RAPACKI DID NOT MENTION CZECHOSLOVAKIA, BUT IFAD OF
CZLCHOSLOVAK UN DELEGATION, SPEAKING AFTER RAPACKI, SUPPORTED PROPOSAL.
DECLARING HIS COUNTRY WOULD JOIN AGREEMENT, EXTENDING BAN OVER HER TERRITORY
TOO. EAST GERMANS SUBSEQUENTLY WARMLY ENDORSED THE PROPOSAL.

B. RAPACKI'S PROPOSAL OBVIOUSLY CLEARED AND COORDINATED WITH SOVIET
LEADERS PRIOR TO INTRODUCTION. MOSCOW PROMPTLY REPORTED THE PROPOSAL
APPROVINGLY AND SOVIET PRESS STRESS AND AGREEMENT WOULD BE WELCOMED BY PEOPLE.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

ORGS:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR PAGE 2

CONF:

INFO:

TO INFO CITE DIR 24811
24311

OF EUROPE, WOULD FACILITATE AGREEMENT ON DISARMAMENT AND CESSATION NUCIZAR
TESTS, AND WOULD "HELP IMPROVE RELATIONS AND BRING CLOSER TOGETHER" THE TWO
GERMAN STATES.

C. THE PROPOSAL WAS FORMALIZED IN 9 DEC 57 POLISH GOVERNMENT
MEMORANDUM, PRESENTED BY RAPACKI TO US, BRITISH, AND FRENCH AMBASSADORS IN
WARSAW. SOVIET PREMIER BULGANIN PROMPTLY ENDORSED PROPOSAL IN SERIES OF
LETTERS TO HEADS OF GOVERNMENTS THROUGHOUT THE WORLD

D. IN 1958 RAPACKI MODIFIED HIS PLAN, ALLEGEDLY TO MAKE IT MORE
PALATABLE TO WESTERN POWERS. NEW VERSION PUBLISHED NOV 58, CALLED FOR
TWO-STAGE PROGRAM IN WHICH: (1) CURRENT NUCLEAR STOCKPILES AND BASES WOULD
BE FROCEN AND PRODUCTION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS BANNED IN POLAND, CZECHOSLOVAKIA,
EAST AND WEST GERMANY, AND (2) EXISTING NUCLEAR STOCKPILES AND WEAPONS WOULD
BE ELIMINATED AS PART OF CENERAL DISARMAMENT AGHEEMENT FOR THE FOUR-NATIO
AREA. REVISED VERSION ALSO CALLED FOR PAIR AND GROUND CONTROL" WITH NATO
AND WARSAW PACT COUNTRIES PARTICIPATING IN CONTROL SYSTEM.

E. FOLISH LEADERS HAVE SINCE 1957 PRESSED FOR FORMAL AGREEMENT ON
RAPACKI PLAN. SHORTLY AFTER OPENING OF GENEVA DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE POLISH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

ORIO:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR PAGE 3

CONF:
INFO:

                                  CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
                                  SECRET

                                  KOUTING



                                  DEFERRED
                                  ROUTINE

TO INFO CITE DIR 24811

DELEGATION SUBMITTED MEMO URGING CREATION NUCLEAR-FREE ZONE IN CENTRAL EUROPE. MEMO BASICALLY FOLLOWS LINES OF FORMER PROPOSALS RAPACKI PLAN.

SOVIET DELEGATION IS CURRENTLY URGING GENEVA DISARMAMENT CONFERENCE TAKE UP QUESTION NUCLEAR-FREE ZONES IN VARIOUS AREAS OF WORLD.

F. SINCE RAPACKI PLAN INTRODUCED HAS HAD STRONG SUPPORT FROM MOSCOW.

SOVIETS HAVE EVEN URGED EXTENDING ZONE TO INCLUDE BALTIC AND BALKAN COUNTRIES.

SOVIET LEADERS UNDOUBTEDLY VIEW PROPOSAL AS MEANS ELIMINATING GERMAN POWER AND REMOVING US MILITARY POWER AND INFLUENCE FROM ANY IN CENTRAL EUROPE - ONE OF MOSCOW'S MAJOR FOREIGN POLICY OBJECTIVES.

G. US STRONGLY OPPOSES RAPACKI PLAN, VIEWING IT AS BLOC DEVICE TO NEUTRALIZE GERMANY, DEEPEN AND EVEN PERPETUATE DIVISION OF GERMANY, AND TO SECURE DE FACTO RECOGNITION OF EAST GERMANY. IMPLEMENTATION OF PROPOSAL WOULD ALSO BE MILITARILY DISADVANTAGEOUS TO WEST. US MILITARY POWER IN EUROPE WOULD BE DIMINISHED WITHOUT A CONCURRENT DECREASE OF SOVIET STRENGTH. IT WOULD WEAKEN NATO.

H. WEST GERMAN GOVERNMENT ALSO VIGOROUSLY OPPOSED TO RAPACKI PLAN, AND ALL SUCH "DISENGAGEMENT" PLANS IN CENTRAL EUROPE FOR SAME REASONS. BONN ALSO CONSIDERS SUCH PROPOSALS AS SINISTER AND SUBTLY INTIMIDATORY TO WEST GERMANS, WHO DO NOT CHOOSE BE DEALT WITH AS IF MERE OBJECTS, AND

RELEASING OFFICER SECRET AUTHENTICATING
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. OFFICER

Copy No


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

ORIG: N. JUDKINS
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR PAGE 4
CONF:
INFO:

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO INFO CITE DIR 24811

WHO DETECT IN SUCH SCHEMES A CREATION OF CONDITIONS FOR THEIR EVENTUAL
COMMUNIZATION.

I. PUBLIC ENDORSEMENT OF RAPACKI PLAN BY MEXICAN PRESIDENT WOULD
MARK FIRST SUCH SPECIFIC APPROVAL BY GOVERNMENT LEADER OUTSIDE SOVIET BLOC
HIS ENDORSEMENT WOULD BE WIDELY PROPAGANDIZED BY POLES AND SOVIETS AND
COULD SET PRECEDENT FOR THEM TO SECURE SUCH APPROVAL BY OTHER NONBLOC LEADERS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED INCLUDE POINTS THAT COULD BE MADE BY COS TO DISSUADE
LITENSOR FROM POSSIBLE PUBLIC BACKING OF RAPACKI FLAN DURING HIS FORTHCOMING
TRIP POLAND.

EE/P
C/EE/P

WA/COPS

R W he hent
J. C. KING
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

JOHN M. WHITTEN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

Prepared ioy Tom Cawur
lin
! LIENVY support
13 March 1963
Sve Calle 14 Mar63

## The Rapacki Plan

1.  The Polish proposal for a Central European
    nuclear-free zone was introduced at the 2 October 1957
    session of the UN General Assembly by the Polish Foreign
    Minister, Adam Rapack1. Acting as spokesman for the
    Polish Government, he formulated the proposal: should
    both East and West Germany agree to a ban on the produc-
    tion and storage of nuclear weapons on their territories,
    Poland would simultaneously introduce an identical ban on
    her territory. Rapacki did not mention Czechoslovakia,
    but the head of the Czechoslovak UN delegation, speaking
    after Rapacki, supported his proposal, declaring that his
    country would join the agreement, extending the ban over
    her territory, too. The East Germans subsequently warmly
    endorsed the proposal.

2.  Rapacki's proposal had obviously been cleared and
    coordinated with Soviet leaders prior to its introduction.
    Moscow promptly reported the proposal approvingly and the
    Soviet press stressed that such an agreement would be wel-
    comed by the peoples of Europe, would facilitate agreement
    on disarmament and cessation of nuclear tests, and would
    "help improve relations and bring closer together" the two
    German states.

3.  The proposal was formalized in a 9 December 1957
    Polish government memorandum, which was presented by Rapacki
    to the US, British, and French ambassadors in Warsaw. The
    then Soviet Premier, Bulganin, promptly endorsed the pro-
    posal in a series of letters to heads of governments through-
    out the world.

4.  In 1958 Rapacki modified his plan, allegedly to make
    it more palatable to the Western powers. The new version
    of the plan, published in November 1958, called for a two-
    stage program, in which: (1) current nuclear stockpiles and
    bases would be frozen and production of nuclear weapons would
    be banned in Poland, Czechoslovakia, East and West Germany,
    and (2) existing nuclear stockpiles and weapons would be


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

eliminated as a part of a general disarmament agreement
for the four-nation area. The revised version of the
plan also called for "air and ground control' with NATO
and Warsaw Pact countries participating in the control
system.

5. Polish leaders have since 1957 pressed for a formal
   agreement on the Rapacki plan. Shortly after the opening
   of the Geneva disarmament conference in March 1962, the
   Polish delegation submitted a memorandum urging creation
   of a nuclear-free zone in Central Europe. The memorandum
   basically follows the lines of the former proposals of the
   Rapacki plan. The Soviet delegation is currently urging
   that the Geneva disarmament conference take up the question
   of nuclear-free zones in various areas of the world.

6. Since the Rapacki plan was introduced, it has had
   strong support from Moscow. The Soviets have even urged
   extending the zone to include Baltic and Balkan countries.
   Soviet leaders undoubtedly view the proposal as a means of
   eliminating German power in Central Europe--one of Moscow's
   major foreign policy objectives.

7. The US strongly opposes the Rapacki plan, viewing
   it as a Bloc device to neutralize Germany, to deepen and
   even perpetuate the division of Germany, and to secure
   de facto recognition of East Germany. Implementation of the
   proposal would also be militarily disadvantageous to the
   West. US military power in Europe would be diminished with-
   out a concurrent decrease of Soviet strength. It would
   weaken NATO.

8. The West German government is also vigorously op-
   posed to the Rapacki plan and all such 'disengagement" plans
   in Central Europe for the same reasons. Bonn also considers
   such proposals as sinister and subtly intimidatory to the
   West Germans, who do not choose to be dealt with as if they
   were inert objects, and who detect in such schemes a creation
   of conditions for their eventual communization.

9. Public endorsement of the Rapacki plan by the Mexican
   president would mark the first such specific approval by a
   government leader outside the Soviet Bloc. His endorsement
   would be widely propagandized by the Poles and the Soviets
   and could set a precedent for them to secure such approval
   by other nonbloc leaders.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH COPY SLOTTED AT 1815 12 MAR 63 BP)

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

SECRET 1222152

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 3743

RYBAT BEDOX 13 MAR 1963 !IN84727

REF MEXI 3575 (W7531)

1. SUGGEST INCLUDE IN MATERIAL REQUESTED REF POINTS THAT CAN BE MADE BY COS TO DISSUADE LITENSOR FROM POSSIBLE PUBLIC BACKING OF RAPASKI PLAN DURING HIS FORTHCOMING TRIP POLAND. PARTICULARLY WISH PRESS THIS POINT SINCE LITENSOR, WHO ANXIOUS BE RECIPIENT NOBEL PEACE PRIZE, MIGHT OTHERWISE BE TEMPTED REACT FAVORABLY TO SUCH A PROPOSAL. POLISH SEJM JUST MADE PUBLIC DECLARATION IN FAVOR MEXICOS AIMS FOR DISARMAMENT.

2. IF ABOVE MATERIAL CANNOT BE POUCHED IN TIME MEET 15 MARCH DEADLINE PLS CABLE HIGHLIGHTS AND POUCH REST.

3. LITENSOR ON 11 MARCH EXPRESSED AGAIN HIS INTEREST IN BRIEFINGS. REQUEST ETA MATERIALS REQUESTED REF.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: LITENSOR HAS ASKED VIA LIELEGANT FOR BRIEFING PAPERS KUBARK CAN GIVE ON FRANCE, YUGOSLAVIA AND POLAND.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# DISPATCH

**SECRET**

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO

FROM: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: KUWOLF/LITENSOR Briefing Materials

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACT: As required.

REF: MEXI 3575
DIR 21965

1. Headquarters is sending herewith materials which KUMONK and KUWOLF staffs have prepared for a briefing of LITENSOR on countries he will soon visit. In order to expedite the pouching of these materials we are not taking time to edit them into a finished product at Headquarters. We are providing more materials and references than will be necessary for this briefing. The Station may select, edit and translate the information it considers most appropriate.

2. Attachment A. This is a list of references to pertinent articles in specific issues of the "Current Intelligence Weekly Summaries."

3. Attachment B. With the exception of the item on Cuba, these KUWOLF-prepared materials were not sent to Station Mexico City. They may be used to promote the ODYOKE position on the Common Market, the Berlin problem, Cuba etu.

4. Attachment C. KUMONK compiled these materials. They include a current description of the situation in each country involved and biographic sketches on many of the officials with whom LITENSOR will probably meet during his trip. The biographic information has been taken from KUDARK and ODACID files. The Station should not pass any biographic information through which a line has been drawn on those attachments.

END OF DISPATCH

Removed from Project KAGIDESK
CS Classification: 50-6-2012
JOB # 23-172/24
Box: 22 Fold: X

Attachments:
A. List of References, H/W
B. KUWOLF-Prepared Material, H/W
C. KUMONK compiled material, H/W

Distribution:
O&l - COS, MEXICO CITY, W/ATTS. A,B,C

7 Mar. 63

HMMW-11374

50-6-75/2

**SECRET**

WH/3/Mex Judkins ds 5940

CA/PROP 7 Mar 63 R. Ratliff by phone

OCI/SIDO 7 Mar 63 T. Loller by phone

FI/INT/IE 7 Mar 63 C. Harris by phone

WH/CA/PROP 7 Mar 63 R. Chamberlain

C/WII/D J. C. King

1 - RI
1 - Chrono

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

Chief, WONOLD

Chief of Station, Mexico City

LIENVOY/Forwarding of Trainee Evaluation

ACTION REQUIRED: For Your Information

1.  Forwarded as a split transmission are copies of the Evaluation of Trainees prepared by Lee R. MYLECHRAINE for passage to LIRAMA and LITEMPO-8.

2.  The attached document was translated into Spanish in the LIENVOY LP by LIENVOY-5 on 11 February 1969 for passage.

Removed from Project K

CS Classification: 50-6-75/2

JOB # 73-17512

Box: 19 Fold: 5

Willard C. Curtis

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment (Via Split Transmission):

Evaluation of Trainees Report

1 - Left Side, h/w

2 - Right Side, u.s.c.

Distribution:

2 - C/WHD, w/atts

2- C/WOMOLD, w/atts

24 Feb 69

HMMA-36437

12 February 1969

SECRET

50-6-75/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

## Identification of Course: Basic Tradecraft ... Activities

## Date of Course: 13 January - 7 February 1969

## Location of Training: Calle Tabasco #225, Colonia Roma, Postal Zone 7, MEXICO, D.F.

## Names of Trainees:

1. Felipe TREJO Gonzalez, Lt. Col., Mexican Army, Age 46.
2. Leonardo LOPEZ y Lopez, Age 23.
3. Mariano CLAVIRES Molina, Captain, Mexican Army, Age 39.
4. Felix LOZANO Rangel, DFS, Age 33.
5. Javier MANCERA Fuentes, DFS, Age 31.
6. Esteban GUZMAN Salgado, DFS, Age
7. Ladislao SALINAS Alor, Captain, Mexican Army, Age 31.
8. Jorge MARGAIN Ortiz, Captain, Mexican Army, Age 29.
9. Rogelio Rafael GARZA Hernandez, Licenciado, Mexican Army, Age 26.

## Evaluation of Trainees:

1. The three DFS trainees, LOZANO, MANCERA, and GUZMAN, because of their previous training and experience in security activities of the DFS, more readily under stood the training materials and lectures presented, and they were better able to incorporate the matters learned into the field exercises conducted by the instructors. Again, because of their previous experience and dedication.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

- 2 -

They also performed the other trainees in surveillance, counter-surveillance, deception, interrogation, and in all other aspects of tradecraft that were covered. These three worked harmoniously with the remainder of the group and made every effort to pass along to them on the occasion arose the good practices learned from their own experiences in security work. All three are considered to be intelligent, alert, imaginative, industrious, and dedicated, and it is the writer's opinion that it would be a pleasure to work with them. All three undoubtedly have a good basic understanding of the typical mission of a national security service, and they know how a security service should go about its work and activities.

2. TREJO - Subject is a career Mexican Army officer and has had no previous experience in intelligence or security work. Throughout the course he was punctual, demonstrated a keen interest in the work, and took an active part in all classroom discussions and street exercises. It did appear, however, that in his discussions with his fellow class members he was usually quite opinionated and argumentative which might possibly indicate some inability on his part to get along well with his fellow workers in the unit. Based on his participation in the class as well as his written work, it is believed that he has a fairly good understanding now of the typical mission of a security service, and the tradecraft principles involved in security service work.

3. LOPEZ Y LOPEZ - the only civilian in the group, excluding the DES trainees, is the youngest of the trainees and appears to have the least formal education. Although he did not participate in the classroom discussions as energetically as did most of the others, he did attend them from time to time and generally did a good job in all exercises carried out by the group. He appears to possess some of the drive and imagination necessary to act as an effective operator and handler of agents. He appeared reserved in his relations and conversations with members in the group, but the writer never noted any friction between him and others. It is suggested that he might be used as the "office keeper" and/or person in charge of files. Somewhat surprisingly, he did a fairly good job in the reporting exercises. His written work is neat and well organized.

.../


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

-3-

4. CHAYMMERS - Subject is an intelligent, alert, imaginative and conscientious man, and it is believed that he will make a valuable contribution to the work of the unit. He participated actively in the classroom discussions and field exercises and made a real contribution to both. On exercises where he was in charge, he got along well with those working with him, and his planning and execution of the exercises indicates clearly that he is able to apply the lessons learned to the practical work. Assuming, it is believed, that he should develop a real interest in security work and would, after some experience, become an effective operator. It is believed, also, that he would be able to supervise others in such a way as to cause them to work together effectively and as a team. His written exercises were well prepared, indicating that he not only learned from the classroom reading and discussion but that he also spent considerable time on them.

5. SALINAS - Subject seems to possess an average aptitude for security work. Like the others, he was always respectful, took an active part in the field exercises, but was somewhat less impressive in the classroom discussions. His prepared written exercises in an acceptable manner. Assuming that he should develop a real interest in security work, it is believed that he would make a worthwhile contribution to the work of the unit. He got along well with the others, including the occasions when he was in charge of exercises.

6. MARGAIN - like SALINAS, Subject is capable and intelligent, and he gets along well with his fellow co-workers. His usefulness to the organization, it is believed will depend on the interest he develops in security work after the unit begins operations. As in the case of CHAYMMERS, MARGAIN in discussions and in field exercises seemed to give more consideration to the security factors involved in particular actions than did the others. Many of his questions in the classroom were related to security operation and conduct of surveillance activities, and the possibility of compromises that might result in embarrassment to the sponsor. It is believed that he would give careful consideration to any proposed operational activity from a security point of view before execution of any tasks involved. His written exercises were well prepared, indicating that he gave them considerable time and attention.

.../


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

7. CARCA - Subject, the youngest of the Army group, is very cautious, considerate and possesses considerable judgment. Sees conclusions on numerous occasions come up with ideas as proposed solutions on exercisos. His written expressions are very well prepared, and on many case with ideas as proposed solutions on exercisos.

Given his youth Gaven his youth be preze to take unnecessary risks, like al others, but it is necessary that he should be preze to take unnecessary risks, like all others, but it is necessary that he should be preze to take unnecessary risks, like all others, but it is necessany that he should be preze to take unnecessary risks, like all others, but it is necessary that he should be preze to take unnecessary risks, like all others, but it is necess

will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all cacters, he will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the will make take all occasions whom observed by the

6. COMMENTS

1. The above comments, it should be noted, are based on a rather short observation period; they showd be considered accordingly. The size of the group, D, is somewhat larger than usual for one instructor, necessarily, the Instructor spend less time with each trainee than the writer will.

The writer appreciated the opportunity to work with the group and enjoyed is tremendously. ile considers tha a group of Lon and tools that they will make a valuable contribution to the work well with his fellow Workers.

2. In accordance with the expressed wishes of the following postions and recomendations that no additional men wi be added laver, it is suggested that the remaining excluding LOPEZ Y LOPEZ, Aghe be made section chieis. In the additional audition to copusy enior of the mit, . C Long, it is suggested that the remaining excluding. C221 SOOons to have a more on Normal interest in sections, thus might be given that responsibilty. Since the above dose as section chier of the group charge operations against Communist and extremist groups, w MORGAN might best fic as section chief in cia.io activities. These comments are based almost exclusively on their apparent interests, based on questions asked writer doo does not mean to suggest that they sho lents made dering the classroom discussions wit

3. Finally, the writer wishes to thank the above proposed assignments.

Facilitated the orderly conduct of the course training course, sible for excellent cooperation and support The cooperation and support derly conduct of the course Co.....


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

-3-

4. A copy of all the training materials was left with LOP82 y LOP82 for the unit. It is strongly suggested that an effort be made within the next three or four weeks to review the materials in a more or less formal classroom situation. Furthermore, it is suggested that until such time as the unit begins operations, the unit plan and carry out surveillance and other exercises designed to improve their capability.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, WH Division

INFO:
Chief, WOMOLD

FROM:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:
LIENVOY/Completion of Training Report (Training Cryptonym-DAVALILLO)

ACTION REQUIRED:
For Your Information

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR-65355, 12 January 1969

1. As indicated in Reference and other communications, a training request was made by the Station and approved by Headquarters, to train a group under the LIENVOY Project to follow up on leads produced by the joint LIENVOY operation and presumably other Mexican Government unilateral sources. Lee R. MYLECHRAINE, WOMOLD instructor who was assigned to the Mexico City Station until 8 July 1968, was selected as the instructor. MYLECHRAINE arrived in Mexico City on 9 January 1969; the training began on 13 January and ended on 10 February 1969. The training was conducted at a training site, Calle Tabasco #228, Colonia Roma, Postal Zone 7, Mexico City, provided by LIENVOY-2 and LIELEGANT; the building in which the training site apartment is located is owned by LIELEGANT, and the latter and LIENVOY-2 have their offices there. The unit, upon completion of the training, will use the apartment in which the training was conducted for their offices.

Continued.....

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD, via split transmission, w/ct

2 - C/WOMOLD, via split transmission,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
RYBAT
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-36431

2. The LIENVOYs had originally requested that five (5) of their men be trained. However, upon arrival in Mexico City and just prior to the scheduled beginning of the training they requested that they be permitted to add one man and that two men be included in the class from the Direccion Federal de Seguridad (DFS). In the latter case, they submitted three names but said that only two of the three would be expected to attend the class. As it turned out all three of the latter group turned up, thus bringing the class to nine (9) students, five (5) Army officers, one civilian from the LIENVOY group, and the three DFS men. Following is a list of the trainees:

(1) Felix LOZANO Rangel. DFS, age 35.
(2) Javier MANCERA Fuentes, DFS, age 33.
(3) Esteban GUZMAN Salgado, DFS, age 33.
(4) Leonardo LOPEZ y LOPEZ, age 23.
(5) Felipe TREJO Gonzalez, Lt. Col., Mexican Army, age 46.
(6) Mariano CHANTRES Molina, Captain, Mexican Army, age 39.
(7) Ladislao SALINAS Alor, Captain, Mexican Army, age 31.
(8) Jorge MARGAIN Ortiz, Captain, Mexican Army, age 29.
(9) Rogelio Rafael GARZA Hernandez, Lieutenant, Mexican Army, age 26.

3. The training objective of the program was to familiarize the trainees with the basic tradecraft principles and techniques involved in the conduct of clandestine activities, with primary emphasis on the work and activities of security services. Although largely tutorial in nature, numerous exercises were conducted in Mexico City, including two live problems which will becexplained later in this dispatch, to further familiarize the trainees with the techniques involved in surveillance, counter-surveillance, personal meetings, deaddrops, interrogation, and investigation. The course included discussion and reading material on opposition to clandestine activities, organization and functions of a security service. personal, physical and organization security; cover, concealment and compartmentation, as well as the basic operational skills of observation, description, casing, surveillance, and elicitation and interviewing. Considerable time was spent on reporting and clandestine communications, as well as on agent acquisition and agent handling.

4. With the agreement of LITEMPO-12 (who said verbally that he had consulted with LITENPO-4) and LIENVOY-2, the three DFS trainees detained Hector SENTIES Rodriguez, who is known to have had clandestine contact with the Soviets, for interrogation. He was detained on the street near his home on the early morning of 4 February 1969 and interrogated throughout the day at a motel, the Palo Alto, located at Km 14 on the Mexico City-Toluca highway. The other six (6) trainees were able to overhear the entire inter- rogation but did not actually take part for security reasons. They did not see SENTIES, nor did the latter see them. In line with the discussions and reading material, this live interrogation was of great value to them. Also. on 3 February 1969 LIENVOY-2 passed along to MYLECHRAINE a good lead concerning Carlos PEREZ Aguirre, a young Mexican who also has contact with the Soviets and Cubans. Unfortunately, only one-half day could be spent on investigating

CLASSIFICATION
53 a
VEL PRO
CONTINUED
TRAGENC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
RYBAT
HMMA-36431

this lead, but even this was of value to the trainees. One traince
was required to make a pretext telephone call, another team of two
made a neighborhood check, and the remainder were divided into teams
to check with Transito, the Ministry of Defense, the Social Security
Institute and the Metropolitan Police. Except for the last team,
all picked up some information of value, and the information and
its significance in terms of the projected investigation of PEREZ
was discussed with them.

5. The performance of the class as a whole was remarkably
   good. The three DFS men, because of their previous training and
   experience, were able to absorb and understand the lectures and
   reading material much more quickly than the others. None of the
   others had any previous training or experience in intelligence or
   security work.. However, they were keenly interested, actively
   participated in classroom discussions and field exercises, and all
   prepared their written work in an acceptable manner. The instructor
   reviewed all written work with them, as well as plans for meetings,
   etc., and this proved most helpful. Somewhat unusual for Latins,
   all students were punctual; there were some very small and unimpor-
   tant delays, but for the most part these were due to the exceedingly
   difficult traffic situation in Mexico City or to other reasons
   apparently beyond their control. No student was absent from classes
   during the entire training period, and no student was late for
   more than 45 minutes or an hour.

6. In summary, the instructor and the Station feel that the
   training objective was accomplished, and that the trainees, although
   not yot experienced operators, have a sufficient enough understanding
   of the basic tradecraft principles and techniques to permit them to
   begin operations. They are all intelligent and alert men, and
   except for LOPEZ Y LOPEZ all have an Army background. CHANTRES is
   quite imaginative and resourceful, but also quite cautious and
   concerned about the possibility of flaps and compromises. He gets
   along well with all his fellow workers, and undoubtedly has real
   leadership qualities. TREJO is somewhat talkative, opinionated and
   argumentative, and may have trouble supervising others, but he,
   too, demonstrated considerable imagination and resourcefulness.
   GARZA, the youngest of the Army group, appeared to be the most pro-
   American, is very imaginative, and possesses considerable drive and
   energy. On one occasion he had the instructor out to lunch at his
   home, where he lives with his wife (they have no children). He
   commented on numerous occasions about his many (almost annual)
   shopping trips to San Antonio, where his wife has a number of close
   relatives. GARZA, it is believed, would probably be the most
   susceptible to development and possible recruitment of the group.

7. Except for the remarks in paragraph 6 above, no individual
   assessment will be forwarded herewith. The instructor has prepared
   a memorandum on each man, including the DFS group, setting forth
   his observations and opinions, as well as any information he was
   able to obtain on the trainees.

8. MYLECHRAINE used the name "Sr. Tomas" with the trainees;
   so far as is known they did not learn his true name, nor were they
   aware where he was living in Mexico City. Likewise, they are not
   aware that he has served previously in Mexico. There were no
   incidents involving security during the training period, and no
   other incidents or events that should be reported.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ASSILIKO MESSAGE TOTAL COPY 17 DUTING AND/OR INITIALS SENA

(24) SECRET
GROUP I

(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED BLOTTED

INDEX DESENSITIZED
X-REF TO FILE NO PER CSN 43-43 BRANCH

DISSEM BY DIR FILE RIO REF TO DESTROY SIG

ACTION C/ WHS INFO. C/alsp c/TSDS c/c/c/F2
FILE. VR,

465 MEXI

SECRET 262208Z MAY 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 0378 (LANGDON ACTING)

DIRECTOR

WOACRE LIENVOY LIRAMA

26 May 69 IN 65913

REF: HMMA 36573, 8 APRIL 1969

1. ON 23 MAY GENERAL LUIS (GUTIERREZ) OROPEZA, JEFE
   DEL ESTADO MAYOR PRESIDENCIAL, AGAIN REQUESTED THAT ARRANGE-
   MENTS BE MADE TO REPLENSIH TRAINING MATERIALS PROVIDED PER
   LOGISTICS 9780. ORIGINAL REQUEST REPORTED IN PARA 2 (B) OF
   REFERENCE.

2. GUTIERREZ CROPEZA INDICATED THAT REPLACEMENTS
   COULD BE BROUGHT INTO MEXICO CITY WITH SAME ASSURANCES AS
   WHEN ORIGINAL SHIPMENTS ARRIVED.

3. PLS ADVISE.

4. FILE: 50-6-75/2.

SECRET

Removed from Project KABIDGER
CS Classification: 50-6-75/2
JOB # 73-175/14
Box: Fold:

CS COPY

SECRET

honey file

26 May 69
50-6-75/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

ORIG: JUDKINS: ds
UNIT: WH/3/MEX
EXT : 5940
DATE: 1 MARCH 1963

TO : MEXICO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO MEXI
T
RYBAX

REF MEXI 3575

CITE DIR 21965
21965
HQS PREPARING AND WILL POUCH LITENSOR FRIEFING PAPERS
IN ENGLISH. PAPERS WILL INCLUDE SOME REFS TO PERTINENT DATA
ALREADY AVAILABLE AT STATION.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *(IN 75331 (LITENSOR HAS ASKED FOR ANY BRIEFING PAFERS KUBARK
CAN GIVE ON VARIOUS COUNTRIES NAMED.


J. C. King
C/MIL/D
RELEASING OFFICER

C/WH/3

WH/COPS

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

DATE: 27 FEB 63

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/CI/IC 2, C/FI 2, S/C 2




CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET




ROUTING


1
4

2
5

3
6

FEB 27 04112 63

ROUTINE



DIR CITE MEXI 3575 !N75331

RYBAT

REF A DIR 35657

B MEXI 1919 62 20593/

1. LITENSOR HAS ASKED VIA LIELEGANT FOR ANY BRIEFING PAPERS KUBARK
   CAN GIVE ON FRANCE, YUGOSLAVIA, POLAND, WEST GERMANY, HOLLAND AND
   ENGLAND.

2. CURTIS WOULD APPRECIATE ANYTHING HEADQUARTERS CAN MAKE
   AVAILABLE AND BELIEVE HQS MAY WISH ATTEMPT INFLUENCE LITENSOR ON
   CERTAIN POINTS IN SOME OF THESE COUNTRIES.

3. WILL NEED REPLY SOON AND, IF HQS WISHES PREPARE PAPERS,
   APPRECIATE RECEIPT BY 20 MARCH.

JACKET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief, VII Division

SUBJECT: LITENSOR Request for Information on Ammunition for ZAPATA Movement.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCE:
HHW-11256

Forwarded herewith is a bureau report containing additional information on the reported shipment of ammunition from Brownsville, Texas to Mexico.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:
DBA-31071, 7 Jan. 63

Distribution:
O & 1 - COS, Mexico City, W/Att

---

DATE TYPED: 23 Jan. 63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HHW-11266

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-332-249
50-6-75-3

OFFICE: WH/3/Mex/J.R. Reoves:ds

TYPIST: 5940

1 - RI W/Att

1 - Chrono W/Att

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WH/D

RELEASING: J. C. King


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

# SECRET

DATE : 8 DEC 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY.

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/MS 2, S/C 2

ROUTING

DEC 8 19082 62

ROUTINE

IN 32097

DIR CITE MEXI 2787 AN32097

REF DIR 03898*

RYBAT LIENVOY

1. COS HAD TWO HOURS ALONE WITH LITENSOR AND LITEMPO/2 ON 5 NOV
   AT WHICH TIME LITENSOR VIGOROUS AS EVER. HE THIN; BUT HE SAID THIS
   ON DOCTOR'S ORDERS TO LOSE WEIGHT. COS HAS NOTICED LITENSOR MUCH
   THINNER AND HAS AGED RAPIDLY IN FOUR YEARS IN PRESENT POST;
   BUT NO EVIDENCE HIS SLOWING DOWN.

2. ON 8 DEC COS TALKED WITH LIELEGANT WHO SAW AND TALKED WITH
   LITENSOR AT A WEDDING ON NIGHT OF 6 DEC. LIELEGANT SAYS LITENSOR
   IN EXCELLENT HEALTH.

3. STATION WILL REPORT ANY INDICATIONS ILL HEALTH.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *DESIRED COS COMMENT ON REPORT THAT LITENSOR IN ILL HEALTH/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

DATE: 3 DEC 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (COPY ISSUED TO WH AT 1320 3 DEC LMG)

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/CI/IC 2, S/C 2

PRITY DIR INFO GUAT CITE MEXI 2733 IN28460

RYBAT/LIENVOY

1. LITENSOR VIA LIELEGANT ASKED COS FOR A REPORT ON ACTIVITIES AND ASSOCIATES OF JUAN JOSE AREVALO IN MEXICO.

2. REQUEST HOS ADVISE WHAT REPLY COS SHOULD GIVE; ALSO, REQUEST PERMISSION ADVISE AMB MANN OF REQUEST AND REPLY.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

ORIG: J.R. Reeves Jr. 318
UNIT: M/3/Mexico
EXT: 5540
DATE: 30NOV52

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, S/C 2

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO: CPIM MEXI INFO CITE DIR: 02132

REF DIR 01719*

1. ODENVY ADVISED HQS 30 NOV FOLL:

A. NO IDENTIFYING DATA RE ORTIZ.

B. LAWYER REPRESENTING DIAZ INFANTE IS NORMAN LUCHS.

C. ODENVY REPORTS REFLECT THAT DIAZ INFANTE IS MENTALLY UNBALANCED CON MAN. THEY TAKING NO FURTHER ACTION REF REPORT.

2. HQS ALSO MADE INFORMAL INQUIRY OF ODACID MUNITIONS CONTROL AND ODBOCN. NEITHER HAVE ANY INFO ON SUCH LARGE SHIPMENT OF AMMO FROM BROWNSVILLE TO MEXICO. BOTH EXPRESSED CONCERN THIS REPORT AND REQUESTED ANY ADDITIONAL INFO OBTAINED BY KUBARK.

3. VIE:/ ABOVE INFO, HQS PLANNING NO FURTHER ACTION.

4. IF STATION DESIRES FURTHER INVESTIGATION, HQS NEEDS ANY ADDITIONAL INFO AVAILABLE RE LETTER AND ORIGINAL REPORT. ALSO IS ORTIZ KNOWN TO MEXI GOVT OR LITENSOR OR IS HE UNKNOWN INFORMANT.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

ORIG: Reeves:jz
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

PAGE TWO

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO INFO CITE DIR

WH CMT * Hqs requesting ODENVY investigate report of large shipment ammo from Brownsville to Diaz Infante followers.

C/S COMMENT: RE REQUEST FOR TRACES ON J. ORITZ.

WH/COPS
CI/LIA - J. Roman (by phone)
T. Flynn (by phone)
CI/OG/WH/F. Hughes (draft)

J.C. KING
C/WHD

NED P. HOLMAN
C/WH/3

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

J. R. Reeves: J:
WH/3/Moxico
6284
28 Nov 62

TO :
MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

TO OPIM MEXI INFO CITE DIR 01719

REF MEXI 2688 (IN 25823)*

NO HQ TRACES SUBJS REF. REQUESTING ODENVY INVESTIGATE REPORT
AND PASS RESULTS TO KUBARK HQ.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *RE LTR FROM J. ORITZ RE AMMO BOUND FOR DIAZ INFANTE FORCES TO STAGE
WH CNT: * Attached ANTOTHE REVOLUTION

![signature of J. C. King]
J. C. KING
C/WED
RELEASING OFFICER

CI/STAFF- Mr. Hunt (draft)
WH/COPS

![signature of Ned P. Holman]
NED P. HOLMAN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

![classified message secret] SECRET

GROUP L
Excluded from automatic
downarading and
dacleantfica

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

363
DATE : 28 NOV 62
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : MEXICO CITY.
ACTION: WH 8 (WH NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1225 28 NOV 621/OJ
NFO : CI, CI/OPS, FI, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
4
2
5
3
6

NOV 28 17202 62
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 25823

OPIM DIR CITE MEXI 2688 IN25823

1. MORNING 28 NOV LIELEGANT GAVE CURTIS COPY LETTER ADDRESSED
   LITENSOR WITH PERSONAL REQUEST FROM LATTER FOR URGENT AND IMMEDIATE
   INVESTIGATION.

2. LETTER POSTMARKED 24 NOV 1962 FRON J ORTIZ 285 LOS ROBLES AVENUE,
   PASADENA, CALIFORNIA, QUOTE CHECK INTO REPORT OF AMMUNITION FROM
   BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS, PORT FILLING 22 RAILROAD CARS (960 TONS) BOUND
   FOR DIAZ INFANTE FORCES TO STAGE ANOTHER REVOLUTION. A LAWYER
   REPRESENTING HIM IS NORMAN FUCH. THIS MEETING WAS IN OFFICES
   MILLIKIN AND MONTGOMERY IN PASADENA (CALIF) UNQUOTE.

3. VIEW THIS PERSONAL REQUEST BY-LITENSOR REQUEST HQS IMMEDIATE
   TRACES, INVESTIGATION AND REPLY OPIN. NO STATION TRACES SUBJECTS
   BUT EXTENSIVE FILE ODENVY REPORTS MARCO ANTONIO DIAZ INFANTE.

END OFMESSAGE

SECRET
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-
MATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

054

DATE : 30 OCT 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, D/OL 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

1
4

2
5

3

OCT 30 0642Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 48632

DIR CITE MEXI 2372

RYBAT/LIENVOY (ALSO RCVD 207)

1. REQUEST TWO REVERE 224/TAPE RECORDERS WITH "Y" TYPE CORDS
   AND TWO KEW-TYPE IMPULSE RECORDERS MODEL B-1C WITH CONNECTIONS
   IN REAR BE SENT MEXICO SOONEST.

2. NEED EQUIPMENT TO DETERMINE MODIFICATIONS NECESSARY
   FOR NEW
   LIENVOY INSTALLATION.

3. WILL ORDER REMAINING EQUIPMENT WHEN NECESSARY MODIFICATIONS
   ARE DETERMINED AND WHAT ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT IS NEEDED.

END OF MESSAGE

![Secret] SEGRET

GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and
Declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: A.C.. DELANEE
UNIT: OCI
EXT: 7454 1605
DATE: 25 SEPTEMBER 1962

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: AD/CI 2
INFO: ADDF, C/CA,/C/WH 2, DD/1, S/C 2

SECRET

TO PRITY MEXT INFO CITE DIR 30535
RYBAT PBBAND
REF: DIR 37635 (OUT 79205)
FOR PASSING TO LITENSOR

1. SOVIET PROPAGANDA KEME CONTINUES TO CHARGE THE US WITH "AGGRESSIVE INTENTIONS" TOWARDS CUBA AND CARRIES DETAILS IN SOVIET EK NEWSPAPERS CONCERNING ALLEGED PROVOCATIVE FLIGHTS BY US PLANES OVER SOVIET MERCHANT SHIPS ENROUTE TO CUBA. WHILE MOSCOW CONTINUES TO MANIFEST GENUINE CONCERN OVER POSSIBLE US ACTION TO INTERDICT SOVIET SHIPMENTS TO CUBA, SOVIET FOREIGN MINISTER GROMYKO IN HIS 21 SEPTEMBER UN ADDRESS NOTED WITH SATISFACTION PRESIDENT KENNEDY'S STATEMENT THAT MILITARY INTERVENTION COULD NOT BE JUSTIFIED AT THE PRESENT TIME, MOSCOW IS EVIDENTLY TRYING TO BUILD A CASE TO SUPPORT ITS TOOK CHARGES IN THE UN THAT THE IS IS GUILTY OF "PROVOCATIVE ACTIVITIES" THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.

2. RECENT SOVIET PUBLIC STATEMENTS SUGGEST THAT KURUSHCHEV IS STILL NOT COMMITTED TO A FIRM COURSE OF ACTION ON BERLIN AND CONTINUES TO PROBE AND ASSESS WESTERN REACTION TO SOVIET MOVES. ON THE OTHER HAND, MOSCOW SEEMS INTENT ON CONVINCING THE ALLIED POWERS THAT IT HAS NOT RETREATED FROM A COMMITMENT TO A UNILATERAL SETTLEMENT IF NIGOTIA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

ORIG
UNIT:
EXT
DATE

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF,

INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT 80565 DIR 38385

-2-
CITE DIR

TO TIONS LATER IN THE YEAR FAIL TO PRODUCE RESULTS.

3. BUILDUP OF CHICOM FORCES IN TAIWAN STRAITS SPRING AND SUMMER 1962 LEFT PEIPING IN STRONGER MILITARY POSITION THERE BUT POSTURE REMAINS PRIMARILY DEFENSIVE. CHINATS, THOUGH STILL A TALYING ABOUT RETURN TO MAINLAND, ARE UNLIKELY TO LAUNCH ANY OPERATIONS LARGER THAN SMALL-SCALE INTELLIGENCE PROBES IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. BOTH SIDES ADHERE TO BASIC POLICY POSITION THAT "THO CHINAS" SOLUTIONS/ OUT OF THE QUESTION, AND THAT THE ONLY POSSIBLE SOLUTION IS DESTRUCTION, ABSORATION RIVAL REGIME.

4. INDIA-CHINA: RECENT CLASHES ON ASSAM-TIBET FRONTIER HAVE REFOCUSED ATTENTION ON EASTERN END OF HIMALAYAN BORDERKE AND HEIGHTENED SIMO-INDIAN TENSION; SKIRMISHING LIKELY TO CONTINUE BOTH IN LADAKH AND NORTHEAST, BUT ONSET OF WESTER CONDITIONS IN MID- OCTOBER AND APPARENT RELUCTANCE OF BOTH SIDES TO EXTEND FIGHTING MAKES OUTBREAK OF LARGE-SCALE HOSTILITIES UNLIKELY.

5. INDIA-PAKISTAN: DESPITE FERIODIC TENSIONS OVER BORDER INCI- DENTSX AND LACK OF PROGRESS ON KASHMIR DISPUTE, RELATIONS ARE RELATIVELY STABLE AND THE THERE IS LITTLE PROSPECT OF MILITARY ACTION.

6. JAPAN: NO CHANGE IN JAPANESE SECURITY SITUATION, VISIT OF

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG

UNIT

EXT

DATE:

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO:

TO INFO CITE DIR

KENZO MATSUMURA, RULING PARTY ELDER, TO PEIPING HAS ENCOURAGED OPTIMISM OVER FROSPECT FOR INCREASED TRADE WITH COMMUNIST CEDIA DESPITE CHICOM INSISTENCE ON LINKING FOLITICS AND ECOMCHICS,

7. FHILIPPINES: PRESIDENT MACAPAGAL'S I PROMISED DOMESTIC ACТІСИХИ FRCCRAM HAS MADE LITTLE REAL FROCRESS AS YET, BUT HE HAS MAINTAINED THE POLITICAL INITIATIVE BY EMPHASIZING MIS ANTI-CURRUPTION CAMPAIGN.

8. INDONESIA: EARLY CABINET CHANGES ARE EXPECTED, BUT INDONESIAN POLICY FILL NOT BE AFFECTED. THE GOVERNMENT IS PREPARING TO TAKE OVER CONTROL OF NEW GUINEA FROM THE IN NEXT MAY, AND OTHERWISE IS PREOCCUPIED WITH ECONOMIC PROBLEMS.

END OF MESSAGE

NOTE TO CABLE SECRETARIAT: FLEASE FURNISH COPY TO OCI

![signature]

![signature]

![signature]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

ORIG: John M. Whitten: ja
UNIT: CWH/3/Mexico
EXT: 5940
DATE: 20 Sep 62

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8
INFO: CI/OPS, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

TO: MEXI INFO

REP MEXI 1979 (IN 25427)*

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

21 SEP 67 15 46 z

SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT79205

CITE DIR 37635

DIR 35657 (OUT 75740)** OF 12 SEP WAS SENT IN ANSWER TO YOUR REQUEST FOR
SPECIAL BRIEFING FOR LITENSOR. ALL OF IT MAY BE PASSED TO HIM. WILL BRING IT
UP TO DATE ON 26 OR 27 SEP AS YOU REQUEST.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Requested additional cable report of whatever COS can pass
to LITENSOR to arrive Mexi 26 or 27 Sep.
**PBBAND - Moscow statement re Cuba, situation in Japan and
Indonesia, etc.

![signature of C/WILD]

![signature of WIL/COPS]

![signature of NED P. HOLMAN]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

060
DATE 19 SEP. 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH

INFO: ADDP, C/CA 2, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

1
2 MEXI
3

4
5
6

SEP 20 0446Z62

ROUTINE

IN 25427

DIR CITE MEXI 1979 (OUSLER ACTING)

IMMEDIATE ACTION

RYBAT

REF MEXI 1919 (IN 20593)

1. PARA FOUR REFS PLS CABLE REPORT SOONEST.

2. REQUEST ADDITIONAL CABLED REPORT TO ARRIVE MEXI 26 OR 27
   SEPT.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "MEXI REQUESTED CABLED SITUATION REPORT OF WHATEVER COS CAN PASS PERSONALLY TO LITENSOR."

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

ORIG: A.C. DELANEY
UNIT: OCI 1601
EXT: 7454
DATE: 12 SEPTEMBER 1962

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: AD/CI

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CA 2, C/EE 3, C/WE 2, C/NE 3, C/FE 6, C/SR 4, C/WH 5, C/TFW 5, DD/1, S/C 2

TO: PRITY MEXI INFO CITE DIR 35657

R RYBAT PBBAND

REF MEXI 1919 (IN 20593)

1. MOSCOW'S STATEMENT OF 11 SEPTEMBER ON CUBA APPEARS DESIGNED TO
   ADVANCE VARIETY OF SOVIET OBJECTIVES, FOREMOST AMONG THEN BEING TO
   DETER US FROM ACTIVE INTERVENTION IN CUBA. ALTHOUGH STATEMENT AGAIN
   USED VAGUE AND AMBIGUOUS LANGUAGE TO AVOID CLEAR-CUT COMMITMENT TO
   DEFEND CUBA IN ALL CONTINGENCIES, IT HAS FURTHER ENGAGED SOVIET
   PRESTIGE IN ENSURING SURVIVAL OF CASTRO REGIME. AS BEFORE, HOWEVER,
   USSR IS ATTEMPTING TO CREATE IMPRESSION CUBA IS UNDER PROTECTION OF
   SOVIET NUCLEAR AND MISSILE POWER.

STATEMENT WAS ALSO CALCULATED TO ENABLE MOSCOW TO CLAIM FULL
CREDIT FOR HAVING PROTECTED CUBA IF NO US-SUPPORTED INVASION OR
INTERFERENCE WITH SOVIET SHIPPING MATERIALIZES, IN ADDITION TO THIS
DETERRENT EFFECT, MOSCOW APPARENTLY IS ATTEMPTING TO CHECK GROW ING
CONCERN IN US AND LATIN AMERICA OVER SOVIET INTENTIONS IN CUBA, IT
STRESSED DEFENSIVE NATURE OF SOVIET HILITARY EQUIPMENT BEING FURNISHED
CUBANS IM AND IMPLICITLY DENIED ANY SOVIET INTENTION TO ESTABLISH
MILITARY EXEKS BASES IN CUBA.

STATEMENT, MOREOVER, CONVEYED INDIRECT ASSURANCE THAT USSR WALL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

ORIG :
UNIT :
EXT :
DATE :

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL

INFO
-2-

CITE DIR 35457
NOT CONFRONT US WITH SIMULTANEOUS CHALLENGES IN BOTH CUBAR AND BERLIN.
IT SUGGESTS THAT LEADERS INTEND TO POSTPONE FURTHER SERIOUS BERLIN
TALKS UNTIL LATE THIS XA YEAR OR EARLY MEXT YEAR, TO GIVE THEMSELVES
TIME TO AKK ASSESS IMPACT ON WESTERN POSIT CF PROPAGANDA ATTACKS
ON US "AGGRESSIVE ACTIONS" IN UN ABD OF MANEUVERS TO INVOLVE UN IN
BERLIN SETTLEMENT.

2. CHICOM MILITARY BUILDUP IN STRAITS IS REGARDED AS PRIMARILY
   DEFENSIVE AND CHINATS ARE SHOWING RELUCTANCE TO UNDERTAKE PROVOCATIONS
   THAT MIGHT LEAD TO HOSTILITIES, RECENT U-2 INCIDENT NOTWITHSTANDING.

3. ALTHOUGH SINO-INDIAN BORDER REMAINS TENSE WITH RECURRENCE OF
   SMALL-SCALE SKIRMISHES, CHANCE OF ANY LARGE-SCALE OUTBREAK OF HOS-
   TILITIES IS REMOTE; SKIRMISHING LIKELY TO CONTINUE UNTIL ONSET OF
   WINTER, 5-6 WEEKS HENCE.

4. IN JAPAN, SITUATION IS QUIET; LEFTISTS APPARENTLY CONSIDER
   PRESENT INTERNETIONAL AND DOMESTIC ISSUES LACE POTENTIAL FOR CREATING
   PUBLIC DISTURBANCES.

5. INDONESIAN SITUATION HAS RETURNED TO NORMAL FOLLOWING AGREEMEET
   WITH NETHERLANDS FOR SETTLEMENT OF WEST NEW GUINEA ISSUE UNDER UN
   AUSPICES.

END OF MESSAGE
COOID RATING OFFICERS

CONFIDENTIAL
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
Jungiadin dacisasílication

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

- 087

DATE : 11 SEP 62

SECRET

ROUTING

1
4

2
5

TO : DIRECTOR

3
6

FROM: DJAKARTA

SEP 11 06392 62

ACTION: FE 8 (FE TEMPO COPY SLOTTED 0345, 11 SEP)

INFO : ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2,
FI, FI/D, FI/INT 2, IW 2, WH 7, DD/1, AD/CI 2, S/C 2

PRIORITY

IN 19949

PRITY DIR INFO PRITY MEXI CITE DJAK 8352

REF A DIR 34266 Out 13366* C/S COMMENT: *FOR BACKGROUND BRIEFING FRIENDLY
SERVICE ONLY REQUESTED STATION CABLE SITREP
INFO MEXI 10 SEPT.

B DJAK 8837

1. IN WBSENCE REPLY REF B DJAK APPRAISING SITUATION IN WAKE WEST
   IRIAN SETTLEMENT AND ASIAN GAMES AS FOLLOWS.

2. INDON OFFICIALDOM INDULGING IN STATE OF EUPHORIA AFTER FINAL
   REALIZATION TWO LONG SOUGHT OBJECTIVES OF WEST IRIAN AND ASIAN GAMES.
   OUTCOME OF WHICH EMINENTLY PLEASING TO THEM. SUKARNO IN EXCELLENT
   SPIRITS AND OEVIOUSLY RIDING HIGH IN FULL CONVICTION HIS PERSONAL AND
   AUTHORITARIAN POLICIES OF NOSILIZING POPULACE TO CONFORM TO OBJECTIVES
   OF GUIDED DEMOCRACY ARE BEING JUSTIFIED. ONLY PERSISTENT CLOUD ON
   HIS HORIZON IS DEBILITATED ECONOMY, WHICH HE NOW MARSHALING STATE
   APPARATUS TO RECTIFY. ACTUAL PROCEDURES SUKARNO WILL ADOPT TO
   ATTEMPT RESOLVE SEVERE ECONOMIC PROBLEMS STILL UNCLEAR. HE WELL
   AWARE, HOWEVER, THAT BY ALLEVIATING ECONOMIC DISTRESS AND INJECTING
   SOME VIGOR INTO CONOMY HE WILL BE ABLE CIRCUMSCRISE WHATEVER LATENT
   OPPOSITION THERE MAY STILL BE TO HIS REGIME.

3. WESTERN INITIATIVES IN REACHING WEST IRIAN SETTLEMENT SATISFYING
   INDON CLAIMS HAS HAD IMMZDINTE IMPACT OF REOFESSING PRE-SETTLEMENT

![Enjoy Support]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE                                                             OJAK 99-
IN 1999                                                  PAGE 2
SECRET

IMBALANCE OF INDONS PRO-ELOC ORIENTATION. WHETHER THIS NEW BALANCE
WILL BE TIPPED IN FAVOR WEST PROBLEMATIC AND DEPENDS ON FURTHER WESTERN
INITIATIVES AND CHARACTER OF BLOC COUNTER OFFENSIVE. TWO INDON SCHOOLS
THOUGHT PRZVAIL. ONE CONSISTING MIDDLE LEVEL BUREAUCRACY APPARENTLY
SEE OUTCOME WEST IRIAN ISSUE AS PROPELLING INDONESIA CLOSER TO WEST.
OTHER, WHICH REPORTEDLY INCLUDES ELEMENTS PALACE GUARD AND SUCH
PEOGESSIONAL STATE PHILOSOPHERS AS RUSLAN ABDULGANI, SEEMS TO BELIEVE
SOME OVERTURES TO BLOC NECZSSARY IN ORDER BLUNT ANY IMPRESSIS THAT
QHST IRIAN SETTLEMENT WILL COMPROMISE INSON VERSION NEUTRALISM TO
ADVANTAGESWEST.
4.
INTERNALLY, VAST AND DISCIPLINED PKI (INDONESIA COMMUNIST PARTY),
ORGANIZATION SOMEWHAT QUIESCENT AND SEEMINGLY STILL AWAITING GUIDELINES
FGOM MOSCOW OR PEKING ON TWISTS THEIR SUSVERSION SHOULD TAKE IN WAKE
WEST IRIAN SETTLEMENT. HOWEVER, PKI OBSERVED ADDING TO MOMENTUM
FORU DEMOBILIZING ARMY AND LESSENING AFRY INFLUENCE, WHICH MAIN
OBSTACLE PKI AMBITIONS, IN INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS. INDON MILITARY
COUNTERING THIS MOMENTUM BY SEEKING GUIDE LIMITED DEMOSILIZATION IN
MANNER CALCULATED PRESERVE THEIR STATUS UNDER GUIDED DEMOCRACY
AS ONE OF FOUR MAIN FUNCTIONAL GROUPS CONTJOLLING INDONESIA'S
FORTUNES.

5. SUKARNO GIVING NO IMPRESSION HE INTENDS LIBERALIZE HIS
   AUTHORITARIAN REGIME. ON VONTRARY HIS RETOOLING OF "LIBERAL" ELEMENTS
   FROM GOVT BUREAUCRACY BEING INTENSIFIED AND NEW IMPETUS BEING GIVEN
   TO NATIONAL FRONT AS SUKARNO'S CATCHALL AND MAIN POLITICAL INSTRUMENT
   FOR CONTROLLING AND GUIDING ENERGIES OF EMASCULATED POLITICAL PARTIES.
   (PKI EXCEPTED) AND FUNCTIONAL GROUPS TO CONSOLIDATE PRECEPTS GUIDED
   DEMOCRACY.

(END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

110
DATE : 8 SEP 62
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : DJAKARTA
ACTION: FE 8
INFO : FI, FI/INT 2, WH 7, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1:
2:
3:
4
5
G

SEP 8 06492 62
ROUTINE
IN 18892

DIR CITE DJAK 8837
REF DIR 34266 (cont 73306)

DJAK UNCLEAR WHAT TYPE SITREP WANTED. IN VIEW PRESSURE OTHER
WORK WE WONDER WHETHER HOS COULD NOT DO A BETTER TAILORED AND MORE
COMPLETE JOB.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: REQUEST STA CABLE SITREP INFO MEXI 10 DEPT.

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

028

DATE: 7 SEP 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 2 (C/WH TEMPO COPY SLOTTED 2315, 7 SEP)

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FE 6, s/c 2

---

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 1888

RYBAT

REF DIR 33992 Out 72932 *

1.  LITENSOR NOT AVAILABLE UNTIL AFTER 17 SEPT. HE TRAVELLING OUTSIDE MEXICO CITY,

2.  COS WITH AMB MANN AND MATERIALS SENT (WHICH NOW IN SPANISH) WILL HAVE MEETING WITH LITENSOR (PRIVATELY) PRIOR TO HIS DEPARTURE.

3. APPRECIATE HQS HELP.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *MR HENRY HECKSHER AVAILABLE DURING PERIOD 10-17 SEP FOR BRIEFING OF LITENSOR.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

ORIG : HENRY D. HECKSHER
UNIT : CFE/PIA
EXT : 5426
DATE : 5 SEPTEMBER 1962

TO : DJAKARTA

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF. FE 8

INFO: FI, FI/INT 2, WH 7, S/C 2

TO DJAK INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

5 SEP 23 552

SIG CEN
DEFERRED

X ROUTINE

OUT/3306

CITE DIR 34266

FOR BACKGROUND BRIEFING FRIENDLY SERVICE ONLY REQUEST STATION CABLE STTREP IIITO
MEXI 10 SEPTEMBER.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of Desmond Fitzgerald]
DESMOND FITZGERALD
CHIEF, FE DIVISION

RELEASING OFFICER

WH (Telecoord w/
ContraebanERS)

SECRET

![signature of LIENVOY]

![signature of Henry D. Hecksher]
HENRY D. HECKSHER
CHIEF, FE/PIA

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

OUG. Vernet Gresham:js
UNIT: WH/COPS
EXT.. 7743
DATE: 5 September 1962

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO, MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF. C/WH 5
INFO, ADOP, C/CI, C/FE 6, S/C 2

TO PRTY MEXI INFO CITE DIR 33992

BYBAT
DIR 31814 (OUT 69116)*

1. MR. HENRY HACKSHAR AVAILABLE DURING PERICO 10-17 SEP FOR BRIEFING OF LITENSO2.

2. ADVISE DATE HOST CONVENIENT TO LITENSOR AND COS.

3. AS COS AWARE MR HECKSHER HAS EXCELLENT AREA KNOWLEDGE OF INDONESIA, PHILIPPINES AND JAPAN, HE WILL REQUIRE INTERPRETER ASSISTANCE FROM COS.

4. PYI MR. HACKSHER DEPARTING WITHIN FEW DAYS ON TRIP TO CERTAIN CARIBBEAN COUNTRIES IN CONNECTION WITH ANOTHER PROJECT, WOULD APPRECIATE REPLY AS SOON AS FEASIBLE.

END OF MESSAGE

WH CMT Stated Hq would notify Station when selection of expert in area knowledge firmed up.

CFE/PIA Heckshar (In draft)

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

ORIG. J. R. Reeves:js
UNIT. WH/J/Mexico
EXT 5900
DATE. 23 August 1962

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF. C/WH 5

INFO. ADDF, C/CI, C/FE 6, S/C 2

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 31814

RYBAT

REF MEXI 1773 (IN 10046)*

1. BRIEFING PAPERS POUCHED AS ATTACHMENT TO HMMH 10862 DATED 20 AUG.

2. DUE AREA KNOWLEDGE AND LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT, SELECTION OF EXPERT STILL UNDER CONSIDERATION. WILL NOTIFY STATION WHEN SELECTION FIRMED UP.

END OF MESSAGE

WH CMT: *LITENSOR now tentatively plans depart on Far East Trip 26 Sep.

![signature of MAFORD W. HERBERT]
MAFORD W. HERBERT
AC/WILD

RELEASING OFFICER

WIL/COPS RKD

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

![signature of NED P. HOLMAN]
NED P. HOLMAN
C/WH/3

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE: 062 23 AUG 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FE 6, S/C 2

ROUTING

AUG 23 03-22 62

ROUTINE

IN 10046

DIR CITE MEXI 1775

REF DIR 26750 (cont as ind.)

RYBAT

1. LITEMAOR NOW TENTATIVELY PLANS DEPART FOR PHILIPPINES (STOPOVER),
   INDONESIA, JAPAN, INDIA ON 25 SEPTEMBER.

2. APPRECIATE IF HQS COULD PASS BRIEFING PAPERS ON INDONESIA,
   JAPAN AND INDIA; STATION WILL TRY SLATE.

3. WILL CABLE WHEN DEFINITE PLANS AVAILABLE.

4. RE PARA 2 REF COS CAN INTERPRET AT MEETINGS IF EXPERT COMES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *HQS PREPARED OFFER BRIEFING PAPERS PER AND CONCURRED EXPERT COMING MEXI.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief, WHD

SUBJECT: Briefing Papers for LITENSOR

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: See Para 2 below

*   MEXI 1469, 21 July 1962

1.  Forwarded herewith are the briefing papers on the Communist Movement in Japan, India and Indonesia as requested in reference.

2.  These studies were prepared by KODENK and are forwarded for translation by the Station. Also, it is requested that the Station review the studies and sanitize them for passage to LITENSOR as appropriate.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments: Briefing papers: 1 ea: Japan, India, Indonesia

Distribution: Oal - COS Mexico City, w/attachments

DATE TYPLO: 20 Aug 62

DATE DISPATCHED: 23 AUG 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: 1R95/-10862

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-209529


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

ORIG:
LEE G. NORRIS.jp
UNIT:
WH/3/Mexico
EXT:
5940
DATE:
17 August 1962

TO:
MEXICO CITY

FROM:
DIRECTOR

CONF:
C/WH 5

INFO:
ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, S/C 2

TO:
MEXI (OPIM)
INFO
CITE DIR
30735

RYBAT
REF MEXI 1693 (IN 46148)

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET RYBAT

1. WOLLENSACK EQUIPMENT NOT SUITABLE AND NO OTHER NEW EQUIPMENT TYPES AVAILABLE. RECOMMEND TRIP BE POSTPONED UNTIL FURTHER CONSIDERATION POSSIBLE.

2. IF TRIP CAN NOT BE DELAYED, WE WILL A TTEMPT ENTERTAIN AND DIVERT LIENVOY 2 WITH AREHART'S HELP. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

#WH CHT:
Requested Hqs show LIENVOY-2 Wollensack equipment for New L.P.

![signature]
TSD/ACB John Castro (in draft)

![signature]
WH/COPS

![signature]
J. C. KING
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET RYBAT

GROUP 1

![illegible text]

![signature]
NED P. HOLMAN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
Copy No.

ROUTING

1
4

2
5

3
6

17 AUG 21. 03z
DEFERR SIG CEN

ROUTINE
OUT 66927
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 342 16 AUG 62 DMCL SECRET

TO DIRECTOR.

FROM MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 5 (WH COPY SLOTTED AT 1525 16 AUG 62)

INFO *ADDP, C/CI, S/C 2

|     |     |         |     |
| --- | --- | ------- | --- |
| 1   |     | ROUTING |     |
| 2   |     | 4       |     |
| 3   |     | 5       |     |
|     |     | 6       |     |

AUG 16 19222 62

PRIORITY

IN 46497

TO (PRIORITY) DIR INFO CITE MEXI 1711

REF DIR 29996 (OUT 66087)**

SEE MEXI 1693. (IN 46148)

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES..

**RE INFO THAT AREHART AND LIENVOY 2 COMING WASH 17 AND 22 AUG.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

CUG:
J. WHITTEN
LAT:
DC/WH/J/Mexico
EXT:
5940
DATE: 15 August 1962

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WH 5.

INFO: ACDP, C/CI, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

15 Aug 65 22 22 Z
OUT66087
SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT 66087
PRIORITY

TO PRTY MEXI INFO CITE DIR 29996

RE:BAT LIENVOY

UNDERSTAND FROM MULFORD THAT ARKHART AND LIENVOY 2 COMING
WASH 17 AND 22 AUG TO DISCUSS NEW LIGHT EQUIPMENT FOR PROJECT.
HAS THIS BEEN DELAYED OR CANCELLED IN VIEW OF MEXI 16917 ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *(IN 45535) LI TEMPO-2 HAS ASKED COS SET UP TELEPHONE TAP
OPERATION.

![signature]

J. C. KING
C/WED

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET RYBAT

NED P. HOLMAN
C/WH/3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

047

DATE : 20 MAR 62

TO : DIRECTSK

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, SR 6, S/C 2

| ROUTING |     |
| ------- | --- |
| 1       | 4   |
| 2       | 5   |
| 3       | 6   |

MAR 30 0447Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 11121

DIR CITE MEXI C415

REDCAP

REF DIR 00232 Mut 65709

INFO PARA ONE REF PASSED LIELEGANT, AND ALSO TO AMB.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *CONTAINED INFO SEMEN TARASOVICH BAZAROV.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

SECPET

7 February 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/Personnel

SUBJECT: Request for Outside Translator

1. It is requested that you contact the appropriate Career Boards to try to locate candidates to fill the job now being held by George Misko in Mexico City, but under deep cover. He must have the following qualifications:

a. Languages: Russian (fluent), Czech (fluent), Spanish (would be expected to bring proficiency of Spanish up to good). Also provide namos of candidates having only Russian and Spanish.

b. Job: translating telephone tap tapes

c. Age: any age acceptable

d. Sex: male or female but male preferable

e. Grade: grades 9 through 12 should be considered

f. Security: Would be sent to Maxico City to work in a basehouse with Mexican liaison personnel and one KUBARK Staff Agent. Must be willing to expose himself as KUBARK to Maxican Government.

g. Cover: Would be provided by Mexico, could bring family and limited household effects. Will have no contacts with ambassy or have any Embassy privileges.

h. Type of Employee: Career Agent or Contract Agent preferred. If not available, Staff Agent or Contract Employee Type 3 would be suitable.

2. Any questions on this request should be directed to Charlotte Bustos-Vidala, WH/3/Mexico, X2555.

3. It is the intention of this desk to alot this new employee into a LIENVOY alot and vacate the Station/Embassy slot for another FI Case Officer.

Distribution:
Orig. - Addressee
1 - LIENVOY/Support
1 - Outgoing memo chrono

NED P. HOLMAN
C/WH/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

PROJECT: LIENVOY (2135-5701-5170) Mexico

Staff Agent: AREHART, Arnold F.

|                                                 | FY 1962 | FY 1963 |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ------- | ------- |
| Approved: 1 July 1961 - 31 January 1962 $40,340 |         |         |
| (Pending) 1 February 62 - 31 Jan 1963 25,482    | $65,822 | $39,758 |

SUPPORT EXPENSES: Salary 5,000

10% S.A. Premium 500

Equalization 250

Retirement 326

Housing 2,100

Education 400

ARSHART auto upkeep & travel 4,900

AREHART home leave travel 2,000

Salary and cover travel for AREHART and family 8,330 11,670

Total Support Expenses 21,806 13,670

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES: 44,016 26,088

TOTAL $65,822 $39,758


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO

FROM

Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT

Material for Passage to Liaison
101 Questions to a Guerilla Fighter

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1.  Attached are two copies of General Alberto Bayo's book (in Spanish) for use in briefing or training agents or members of security forces with which we have liaison. This book is a "do-it-yourself" guide to paramilitary and cabotage techniques. It demonstrates Cuban support for such activities and the need for training in counter-reasures by friendly security forces.

2.  Headquartoro has recoewended that all WH Stations have one or zero of these books, especially those where official or unofficial lieison exists with a security force.

3.  It Station Mexico lo interested in this book, a limited number of copies can be obtained. Prior to releasing any of these copies, Headquarters ist know the individual ami service receiving the book thereby allowing its clearance release.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
2 Mexico City, w/att


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

25 Jamary 1962

SUBJECT: Request for LISNAN Froject Renewal

1.  Ia accordance with the new policy of charging all ecots in connection with Stafl Agents to Station Support and not to a project, there is an adjustment retired in the ireriget figures quoted in the attached esmorzadza requesting project reneval.

2.  The LIENVOY Project should be approved for a total of $43,240: $17,152 fer fiscal year 1562 ani $84,353 for fiscal year 1953. Funds totaling $8,300 in fiscal year 1962 and $13,570 in fiscal year 1963 vill be transferred to Mexico City Support to fant Arnold P. ARSHART, Staff Agent.

Distribution:

- LENVOY/Support

1- LIENVOY/Dev & Plan


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)