2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

PAGE 01

SECRET 301657Z APR 76 STAFF

TO: DIRECTOR.(JAKARTA) INFO (THE HAGUE) (PARIS)

REF: (LONDON) 72122 (SENT ONLY DIRECTOR)

1. FUR JAKARTA, THE HAGUE.(PARIS): REF ADVISED THAT DURING 23 APR CONTACT BETWEEN PHILIP AGEE AND STEPHEN M. WEISSMAN,

WEISSMAN (WHO IN CALIFORNIA) SAID HE HAD FOUND AN ARCHIVES ON AGENCY MATERIAL WITH A GREAT DEAL OF INFORMATION. HE MENTIONED INDONESIA AND SAID THAT PAUKER WAS PERSONALLY IDENTIFIED AS "UUR" MAN.SY CIA, AGEE THEN TOLD WEISSMAN THAT HE COULD ARRANGE AN INTRODUCTION TO DEWI SUKARNO AT ANY TIME FOR WEISSMAN, AS WELL AS A JOURNALIST WHO KNEW SUKARNO PERSONALLY.

2. *JAGUAR* WAS SOURCE OF ABOVE INFO. AFTER CHECKING THEIR RECORDS, ON 29 APR *JAGUAR* ADVISED THAT THEY BELIEVE THE JOURNALIST IN QUESTION TO BE ONE WILLIAM L. OLTMANS OF AMERBOS 205, AMSTERDAM, THE NETHERLANDS. THEY SHOWED TO US THREE LETTERS WHICH HAD BEEN MAILED TOGETHER IN ONE ENVELOPE POSTMARKED IN THE U.K. ON 9 OCT 75. THE ENVELOPE WAS ADDRESSED "PHIL AND ANGELA" AND GAVE THEIR CAMBRIDGE ADDRESS.

Form 647a Processed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY__________PER.__________ TOTAL COPIES__________RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT Z REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TI
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBIT
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR STAFF
1 4
2 5
ACTION # INFO 3 6

T 882004 E1A762 PAGE 02 IN 906466
TOR:301935Z APR 76 (LOND) 72167

WERE DATED JUL 75, ONE HAVING BEEN SIGNED BY OLTMANS AND THE
OTHER TWO BY DEWI SUKARNO, OLTMANS' LETTER WAS AN EXPRESSION
OF INTEREST IN THE SENATE INVESTIGATIONS AND PARTICULARLY IN ANY
aspect REGARDING INDONESIA. OLTMANS CLAIMED TO HAVE KNOWN SUKARNO
QUITE WELL, AND SAID THAT HE HAD HAD SEVERAL DISCUSSIONS WITH SUKARNO
ON THE SUBJECT OF THE ACTIVITIES OF THE CIA AND HOW THE CIA WAS
TRYING TO OUST SUKARNO. DEWI SUKARNO'S TWO LETTERS WERE REQUESTS
FOR INFORMATION ON THE RESULTS OF THE SENATE INVESTIGATION AND
HOPED THAT THE INQUIRIES WOULD SERVE TO CLEAR HER HUSBAND'S NAME.

3. SINCE THE LETTERS WERE ACTUALLY WRITTEN TO SENATOR FRANK
   CHURCH AS HEAD OF THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE, JAGUAR FOUND IT
   INTERESTING THAT AGEE WOULD BE ABLE TO OBTAIN COPIES OF LETTERS
   WRITTEN TO A U.S. SENATOR IN HIS OFFICIAL CAPACITY AS HEAD OF SUCH
   A COMMITTEE. JAGUAR WONDERED IF SOMEONE ON THE SENATE COMMITTEE HAD
   SENT THE LETTERS TO AGEE, BUT WE FEEL IT POSSIBLE THAT OLTMANS/
   SUKARNO GAVE COPIES OF THEIR LETTERS TO PEOPLE IN PARIS WHO GOT
   THEM TO AGEE.

4, REQUEST ADDEES TRACES OLTMANS WITH INDICATION OF WHAT MAY
BE PASSED (JAGUAR)

5, FILE: 73-6-46/3. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET

4/PV


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)