14-00000
104-10120-10373

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

28 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM : Chief, SB/2 Desk

SUBJECT: COVER, (NONOFFICIAL) - GENERAL
(Proposal for A&E Assessment of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682

1.  Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining to the subject as captioned, ending with the Memorandum for the Record dated 21 February 1961.

2.  As indicated in the referenced memorandum, CCG feels that the (PSYCHOLOGICAL ASSESSMENT ASSOCIATES) (see copy of SR memorandum-dated 3 February 1961 and my memorandum dated 21 February 1961) should not be utilized. This decision was made as a result of a conversation between Mr. Howard OSBORNE, Deputy Chief, SR Division, and Mr. Jack SOUTHARD, Chief, CCG/NC.

3.  A meeting was called on 27 February 1961 to determine the type of cover organization that should be substituted for this purpose. After considering the matter at length, it was ascertained that the Agency has a cleared (employment) service in (Pittsburgh) which could possibly be utilized as an initial A&E assessment. This firm, the (EMPLOYMENT SERVICE COMPANY) is located in the Union Trust Building, (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,) and is managed by (Margaret A. KEARNEY) (see SSD File 95018). It was agreed that if the (EMPLOYERS SERVICE COMPANY) could provide the needed cover, two OTR psychologists would be documented in true name with that firm in (Pittsburgh) CCG (Frank O'MALLEY) will make a trip to (Pittsburgh) in the next few days to determine whether Miss (KEARNEY) is amenable to the proposed arrangement. The two psychologists selected were Doctors BRADT and (McKEF) on whom credit checks were recently completed with negative results as to Agency employment.

4.  It was further ascertained at this time that Mr. Howard OSBORNE desired that all training and assessment of REDSKIN Agents who pass the initial screening be conducted

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

outside the Washington, D. C. area. liost of the training will be conducted in an SR safe house in New York. The SR representative will probably request a safe house in Baltimore for the final assessment and processing of those REDSKIN Agents that are cleared in the initial screening by either BRADT or (MCKEE) 06 It should be noted at this point that SR Division plans to process thirty or thirty-five REDSKIN Agents this year. Time is, of course, of the essence, in view of the fact that these people will have to be assessed, security-cleared, briefed, and trained, and arrangements for grants made before the summer season.

KUHNKE/end(2-28-61)
PENDING

cc: SSD #95018

![Signature of Ervan E. Kuhnke, Jr.]

2
SELRET

UPJ


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)