14-00000
104-10179-10104 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

|                                                     |            |            |                                      |         |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------ | ------- |
|                                                     |            | PROCESSING |                                      |         |
| **DISPATCH**                                        |            |            | ACTION                               | ACCOM   |
|                                                     | **SECRET** |            |                                      | PLISHED |
| TO:                                                 |            |            | X                                    |         |
| Chief, Task Force W                                 |            | IROPOSED   | MARKED FOR INDEURG                   |         |
| INFO.                                               |            |            | NO INDEXING                          |         |
| FROM                                                |            |            |                                      |         |
| Chief, JMWAVE                                       |            |            | ONLY CRIALIFIED                      |         |
| SUBJECT GYROSE/AMCONCERT-1  Report on Cira MARTINEZ |            |            | MEADOKARTERS LESK CAN MIDGE INDEXING |         |
| ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES                          |            |            |                                      |         |
| ACTION REQUIRED: FYI                                |            |            | ABSTRACT                             |         |
|                                                     |            |            | MICROFILM                            |         |

Attached herewith is an AMCONCERT-1 report on Cira #MARTINEZ, a confidante of Manuel RAY.

END OF DISPATCH

![signature]

Attachment: h/w Copies of report (2).

Distribution:
3-Headquarters w/att.

![cross reference to]

|              |                 |
| ------------ | --------------- |
| DATE TYPED   | DATE DISPATUNED |
| 3 NOV 6 1962 | NOV 6 1962      |
| UFGA 5860    |                 |

**SECR** 19-120-33

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Miami, 3 Oct 62

REPORTING AGENT: アーサー/M/ /（/)

SUBJECT: Cira MARTINEZ, sia: "Cirita", very closely connected to Manuel RAY.

SOURCE: Marta DIEZ Rivas. Married to Dr. Ricardo MACHIN. Has connect- in Havana with various anti-Communist organizations.

On a visit I made to source, she told me that she had met Mrs. Cira MARTINEZ in Havana. That Mrs. MARTINEZ used the clandestine pseudonym "Josefina" and was married to architect Frank MARTINEZ, That both subject and her husband were persons in the absolute confidence of engineer Manuel RAY, and "Josefina" had been RAY's secretary for a long time.

Source claims to have learned from "Josefina" that she was dissatisfied with RAY's political actions, to the extent that RAY wanted her to join the executive of the organization J.U.R.E. but she had refused because she did not agree with the/policies of this organization. That "Josefina" had described this organization as a political movement the same as Castroism, only changing the name of the leader. That she knows the plan of this organization is to organize all anti-BATISTA and anti-CASTRO organizations, under the direction of the J.U.R.E., and develop a nationalistic and especially an anti-American policy in order to be able to group all the elements existing in Cuba that have not figured prominently in the CASTRO regime. After the fall of the CASTRO regime they plan to form a strong political party in Cuba and capitalize on the mistakes committed by the provisional Government. With this objective in mind, they will stay separated from the C.R.O. and from all relations with the U.S. Government in order to be able to carry out their plan freely.

Mrs. Cira MARTINEZ lives with her husband at 1004 NE 17th St., Miami, phone number PL-C-0483 on which they talk to many persons related with RAY's plan.

NOTE: One of RAY's most trusted leaders in Miami is still Osorio DAVILA, former treasurer of the 26th of July Movement and man in the absolute confidence of Haydee SANTAMARIA. For a long time DAVILA was the Chief of the Havana Immigration Department, until he came to the U.S. by boat from the coast of Matanzas. Some days ago I submitted a detailed report on Osorio DAVILA, and also on CISNEROS and many other


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

8 Oct 62, subj: Cira MARTINEZ (cont.)

Known leaders of J.U.R.E., because there is another group of individuals whose names are not advertised but who have command powers in the J.U.R.E. One of these men is Ignacio LEDON, former leader of the 26th of July Movement, private secretary of the Commissioner of Havana Jose LLANUSA, and G-2 delegate in Havana City Hall. LEDON persecuted many persons in the City Hall because he was the one who made the lists of persons who should be watched, to the G-2. He also had close connections with the Minister of the Interior, Jose A. NARANJO, whom he kept informed about the persons under suspicion who worked in the Ministry of the Interior. One time LEDON visited NARANJO and informed him, in the presence of NARANJO's secretary, Lucy ECHEVERRIA, that he should keep Captain Ramon PADILLA, at that time Chief of the Isle of Pines prison, under surveillance. In 1960 PADILLA was preparing the escape of Captain Jorge SOCUS, and thanks to Lucy's warning PADILLA took precautions and the plan could be carried out.

Ignacio LIDON lives in Miami but I don't know his home address. Although he later declared himself an anti-Communist, and I think he sought asylum in the Brasilien Embassy, I have no trust in him at all.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

On Sunday, October 28, I met twice with Manolo RAY of the Movini en to Revolucionario del Pueblo (MRP) at the San Juan Intercontinental Hotel, in San Juan, Puerto Rico. My main objectives weret (1) to elicit from Ms. list of Cubans, presently associated with the Castro regime, who aro critical of Castro and might be considered potential dafectors; (2) to Amin a list of cubans, either inside or outside the island, who could be available, in case of an emergency, to help in setting up some kind of provisional government; and (3) to have his general views on the possibility of an insurrectionary movement.

Since I had arranged to return to Washington on the same day, I did not give Ray much time to do a thorough job. However, he was able to furnish se with a list of names, covering points (1) and (2). He promised to provide me with additional information after checking with some of his associated in New York and Miami. His thoughts on the possibility of an insurrectionary movement idll be the subject of a separate semorandum.

LIST I

The persons herein indicated are either in Cuba or are working for the Cuban Government. I add my own comments in parenthesis, based on my conversations with Ray.

A - GENERAL

06 [Regino BOTI] - Minister of Economy 08 (Ray feels he is disgusted with the Castro regime. Instructions have gone out to sound him out. No reply as yet.)

06 [Commander Ifigenio ALMEJKIRAS] (Said to hold a key comsand position in Central Quba and to be thoroughly disgusted. Could be a Key man in a top level revolt.)

06 [Commander Lester RODRIGUEZ] (Has helped the MRP. Mis allegiance to Castro has considerably weakened)

06 [Commander Padre MIRET] (Very close to Rodrigues. Will nost probably follow his.)

Commander Rolande CUBELAS (Is anxious to leave Cuba)

06 [Rafael BETANCOURT] (Commands an artillery post. His brother [name, un furnished] is actively against the regine.)

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

-2-

06 Captain Luis PINEDO Pérez (Terry)
(Chief of the *Foll* talked against Cast)

06 Commander Faustino PÉREZ
(Former Minister. I views. Probably and in Ray's opinica.)

06 Commander Antonio E. LUZON
(Favorable to the MRP)

06 Commander Bernabe ODAZ
(In charge of *Kasetta*)

06 José NARANJO
(Held key position in Havana province. Reported to have expressed strong views against Castro.)

06 José ASSEF
(Formerly connected with *Gobernación*. Also in opposition te Castro).

06 Sebastián ARCOS
(Formerly connected with the Finance Ministry. Known to be critical of regime.)

06 Enrique IBARRA
(Under-Secretary of Public Works. Favorably inclined to the MRP)

06 Armando FRANCO
(Present post unknown. Reported to be against Castro.)

06 Alfredo YABUR
(Minister of Justice. Conflicting reports as to his Allegiance to Castro.)

06 Carlos LECHUGA
(Ambassador to *Mexico*. Has recently written to an MRP Friend. Wear willed, might be anxious to defect.)

06 Enrique RODRIQUEZ Looche
(Cuban Ambassador to *Morocco*. Presumed to be anti-Castro.)

06 José PELLON
(One of the executive members of the *Confederación de Trabajadores Cubanos* - Cuban Workers' Union. Has been in contact with the MRP.)

![handwritten note]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

06 [José DIAZ] (Another labor leader, known to be anti-Castro.)

06 Captain Manuel CARBOJEL (Assistant to *LIKEJEIRAS*, In opposition to regime.)

06 Commander Guillermo GARCIA (Active in the western provinces. The MRP is checking on a report regarding his disaffection.)

06 Antonio ESCOCENA (Was in command until recently of a naval post in BARACOA. Definitely anti-Castro).

06 José OGLE Colón (Also from Baracoa. In charge of one of the militia regiments.)

06 Manuel PEREZ (Municipal Treasurer, Baracoa. Decidedly anti-Castro.)

06 Taras DOSNITRO (Held government position in Oriente. Known to be Anti-Castro.)

06 Captain Duque ESTRADA (Has helped the MRP)

The "Alcaldes" (Mayors) of (Guane juny) and (San Cristobal) are believed to be against the regime.

06 José Angel ROMERO (A former businessman from Baracoa.)

06 Juan GUILLARON (Also from Baracoa. A public accountant.)

06 Kito HARDO (Former mayor of Artemisa)

Beriberto DEL PORTO
Erasmo GOMEZ
José SANCHEZ
José MUZA
Danilo MESA
Pedro IGLESIAS Betancourt
Manuel DORTA Jaque

(Could be helpful in Havana Province.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

06 Agustín TOME
(From Camaguey. Former governor in 1959-60. Trusted by the original revolution.) 08

06 Osorio DAVILA
(Very respected in Matanzas. Also linked with the original revolution.)

06 Argelio MARTINEZ
(Former commissioner in Matanzas.) 10

06 José DEL RIO Lago
(A respected land surveyor in Pinar del Rio. Former Commander of the July 26 Movement.) 10

The main center of conspiracy within the government against Castro, according to Rey, is the Planning Board (Junta Central de Planificación.) 08

B - TRAINED PERSONNEL

1. The following list includes technicians working for the government under contract or as public officials. Those marked with an asterisk (*) are highly trusted by Ray.

06 Arq. Joaquín SEBARES
Public Works, Oriente Province (Guantanamo) Aguilera 558, 08

06 Arq. Carlos MARURI (Maruri, Jr.)
Municipality of Havana. 08

06 Arq. Armando PUENTES
Public Works, Havana (Ave. 26 Between 29 & 27, Vedado) 08

06 Arq. Marianao DOU Riera
Municipality of Havana
Sta. Catalina 360, Vibora, Havana 08

06 Arq. Rodolfo SANCHEZ García
Public Works, Havana
25-#5609, Marianao 08

06 Arq. Fernando NUNEZ de Villavicencia
Public Works, Oriente
Ave. 9-A #15007, Apto. Cinódromo, Marianao 08

06 Arq. Gerardo COMEY Van Der Gutch (Public Works, Habana)
#408 Between 27 & Jovellar, Havana 08

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

06 [Arq. Julio ALTOCOHA (Las Villas) ] 08 [Edri. Retiro Odontológico 1302, Vedado.

06 [Arq. José MARZOL Valenzuela] 08
Professor at University of Havana.
Soto #50 Corner 1st, Arroyo Marando

06 [Arq. Antonia SUAREZ] 08
Public Works, Havana
Ave. 11 #813, Marianao

06 [Arq. Joaquín PELAEZ Canallada, INRA, Havana Infanta No. 24 - Apt. 601, Havana] 08

06 [Francisco LARA,] 08
88 A - #5307, Marianao
Truck business

06 [Messrs. Manuel and Mario LOPEZ] 08
194 #6510 - Between 65 y 73 Marianao
Foremen in Public Works, Las Villas

06 [Arq. José CANAVES Ugalde] 08.
Ave. 26 & Zoológico Havana

2. Other trained personnel, not connected with the government:

06 [Arq. Pedro CURSH (1),]
Was in Public Works, Havana

06 [Arq. Felipe GOMEZ Albarran]
Ex-professor University of Havana and Vilanova

06 [Arq. Carlos MOURIN] 08
Was in Public Works, Havana
Ave. Zoológico 202, Vedado

06 [Arq. Ricardo COROMINAS Guspert] 08
28 No. 270 Bet, 21 and 23, Vedado

06 [Arq. Alberto COURIEL] 08
Calsada No. 1059 Corn of 14, Vedado

06 [Arq. Rodolfo SOCARRAS Sanches] 08
Extension of Maceo, El Llanu, alguin

06 [Arq. Miguel ALCOLADO de la Torre] 08
Máximo Gómez No. 3, Guantánamo

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

06 Arq. Rodulfo IEARRA Peres, President, National College of Architects 08
15 No. 259, Vista Alegre, Santiago de Cuba.

06 Arq. Sebastian J. RAVELO, 08
Terraza No. 155, Santiago de Cuba

06 Arq. Emilio CARBO, No. 8610 Between 86 and 88, Miramar, Havana 08

06 Arq. Everardo GARCIA Fernández, 5a Ave., 6602 08
Marianao

06 Mr. Anastasio ROSEMOND, Contractor 08
180 No. 4107 - Bet. 41 and 43, Mariano

06 Mr. Manolo RODRIGUEZ, Garage, 08
26 No. 502, Vedado

06 Mr. Humberto RODRIGUEZ, 08
Plumber E 60-A, 2114, Marianao

06 Mr. Marmel LOBELIA,
Electrician - Marianao.

06 Arq. Antonio VIECO,
Altahabana (Municipality of Marianas) 08

06 Arq. José Roberto CEOMAT, Ex-Dean University, School of Architecture 08
3rd Ave. $130 - Bet. 12 & 14, Marianao

October 30, 1962


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)