# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

all 7-1-12-79

PERS 79-1222

Allx 790112

8 January 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

SUBJECT : Annual Fitness Report - George Joannides
Operations Officer
GS-16
ESN 064818 23
DOB 5 July 1922
067180743

1.  This Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report is prepared in accordance with HR 20-20, for the period mid-June 1978 through 12 January 1979. The occasion of the Fitness Report is the retirement of the rating official.

2.  The undersigned was detailed in mid-May to serve as the Agency's Principal Coordinator for work with the House Select Committee on Assassinations. As it became apparent that the volume of the work required assignment of additional full-time personnel, the decision was made that one experienced officer was needed to handle the DDO account. A senior officer experienced in DDO work and available to serve for several months was requested. Mr. Joannides was known to the undersigned by reputation, although not personally, and arrangements were made for his detail to the work. While there is no way to outline the qualifications that one should have for this sort of work, it became quickly clear that Mr. Joannides was the perfect man for it.

3.  Mr. Joannides was responsible for a new procedure in recording of exchanges with the HSCA. As it developed, the Agency's logs and records on the status of requests by the HSCA and the Agency's responses became the only reliable record; it was clear that the HSCA often did not know the status of business in this respect and time and time again had to come to this office for clarification. Beyond that early contribution to the ordering of the affairs of the office, Mr. Joannides handled day-to-day follow-ups of requirements by telephone with the DDO focal point as well as throughout the DDO. Further, the firm position that he took with the young investigators in response to aggressive harassment on some occasions was exactly what the situation called for. A person of his maturity and experience handled the job exactly as required by the situation. If the peculiar nature of the work did not call on Mr. Joannides for all the talents of his wide experience, it nonetheless was his experience and quick perceptions that ensured a superior performance. His advice and

3/mc 19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

counselling on courses of action to cope with unique situations was always sound and responsible.

4. The work in this assignment provided little occasion for Mr. Joannides to demonstrate attitudes on either EEO matters or economy, considerations that are required by regulation for comment in Fitness Reports. As a result, no comment is made.

5. Not because of the demands on his superior talents, but because of the cool efficacy with which he handled an unusual special assignment, Mr. Joannides' work is evaluated as Outstanding.

![signature of S. D. Breckinridge]

S. D. Breckinridge

I certify that I have seen the comments in the Narrative section of this memorandum.

![signature of Geonge Joannides]
Geonge Joannides

![Date of signature]
Date

2

![KC 1/14]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FITNESS REPORT

SECRET
(When Filled In)

SECTION A

1. NAME

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX 4. GRADE 5. SD
   7-5-22 M 99 GS-14 D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Ops. Officer

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
   DDP/S.A.S.
   JMWAVE

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT 10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

X CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions - Section C) X ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specify): SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P. 12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to-)
    1 April 1963 - 31 March 1964

SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Supervises and manages the Station's covert action branch which employs [ten] staff officers and Seven contract employees.

RATING
LETTER
99
[S]

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Serves as senior case officer for a student project which involves distribution of printed propaganda, production of radio programs; and the development of political action programs.

RATING
LETTER
99
[S]

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
Maintains liaison with the FI, CI and PM branch chiefs, in order to insure that the Station's covert action effort is appropriately supporting the missions of the other branches.

RATING
LETTER
94
[P]

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
Conducts production and security reviews on the Station's covert action operations.:

RATING
LETTER
99
[P]

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER
[S]

8 JUN 1964

FORM 4-62 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECTION C

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or, supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Subject is a hard working, dedicated and effective officer who has proven by performance that he can accomplish assigned operational tasks in allowable time limits. The period covered by this fitness report represents Subject's initial Agency exposure to those first echelon management responsibilities which are implicit in a branch chief's assignment in a Station that has 313 employees. Subject responded to the challenge of the first echelon supervisory responsibilities in an exemplary manner. Subject managed a branch that had a yearly budget of two million four hundred thousand dollars. These funds were judiciously spent on printed propaganda, white and black radio programs, and on political action operations which were implemented via labor, student and professional groups. Subject has the knack of judiciously blending quality with quantity and in this melding effort, Subject reflected cost consciousness and effectiveness in the use of personnel, space equipment and funds. Subject has a distinct flair for political action operations and can translate policy directives into meaningful action programs by all of his assets. Subject has the ability to delegate authority and to appropriately fix responsibility with those officers whom he supervises. In the management field;
Subject's only discernible weakness is a tendency to be abrupt with subordinates. It is believed that this minor shortcoming will be overcome with the acquisition of added experience in the field of personnel management. On balance therefore, Subject's overall performance as a supervisor and as an intelligence officer warrants an evaluation of "Strong".

# SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. 
BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE

15 May 1964

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

/s/ (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal)

2. 
BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

22 months

DATE

15 May 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

/s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.)

3. 
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Although I have had few chances to personally observe work, I concur in the supervisor's comments and rating due to my general impression of capabilities and performance of duty received in occasional meetings extending over a number of years.

DATE

1 June 1964

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Deputy Chief, WH (SA)

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Bruce B. Cheever

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

13-00000

SECRET

CONTINUATION SHEET
*Section C - Narrative Comments

Subject has additional growth potential as an intelligence officer and as a first echelon supervisor of individuals doing a basic intelligence task. Ethnic origins, foreign language fluency and experience acquired to date generally dictates a career for Subject in the general arena of Greek operations. While the major thrust of Subject's career orientation should be geared toward Greece and its related problems, it is believed that it is essential that, on a periodic basis, Subject be directed into non-Greek areas of interest, in order that the continued challenge of new horizons will stimulate Subject to develop to his full capacity. In practical terms, this means that out of any eight-year time cycle, at least two years should be spent by Subject on non-Greek or even non-European affairs. This officer has the potential to be a broad-gauged officer but he must be stimulated and led in that direction which will fully harness the totality of his potential.

The rating officer would be pleased to have Subject work with him at any other Field Station that might be entrusted to the rating officer.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

## SECTION A

1. NAME: Joannides, George, E. GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH: 5 Jul 1922

3. SEX: M

4. GRADE: GS-14

5. SD: D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE: OPS OFFICER

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT: DDP/S.A.S.

8. CURRENT STATION: JMWAVE

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT:

CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions - Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT:

INITIAL

ANNUAL XX REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

SPECIAL (Specify):

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.:

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to-): 1 January 1963 - 31 July 1963

## SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak
Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate
Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding
Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

### SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1 RATING LETTER

Deputy Chief of Branch handling (in absence of Chief) all aspects of political action and psychological warfare activity and supervising [fourteen] case officers and clerical personnel. [O]

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2 RATING LETTER

Case officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence collection and a hemisphere-wide apparatus. [S]

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3 RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4 RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5 RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6 RATING LETTER

> [Figure] Stamp with the text "POSTED ON 19 Oct 63"

### OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING LETTER
[S]

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

6/mc


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

## SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Reference is made to paragraph C of subject's previous fitness report dated 10 January 1963 which is still applicable. During the period covered by this report subject has done an excellent job in the handling of a significant student exile group which hitherto had successfully resisted any important degree of control. Under subject's direction an exile teachers' group reached a high level of effectiveness in the propaganda field and was turned over to another case officer.

Subject has effectively terminated unproductive operations in the prop field (one magazine and a news letter) and is building up Station radio capability directed at the maintarget.

His high professional standards, complete comprehension of the problems faced by the Station and strong urge to win in our struggle with the opposition make it a distinct pleasure to see him take over as Chief of the PW branch.


## SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

**1.** BY EMPLOYEE
I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

| DATE        | SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE                                      |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| JUL 31 1963 | /s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed in pseudo on Fld. Transmittal) |

**2.** BY SUPERVISOR

| MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION | IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION |
| --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 15 months                                     |                                                                 |

| DATE         | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                      |
| ------------ | ---------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------- |
| 31 July 1963 | Chief, PW                    | /s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans. |

**3.** BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL - The Reviewing Officer is familiar with Subject's work based primarily on discussions with Subject and Subject's supervisor, general observation of Subject during the past year and frequently reviewing his completed work. Subject is an extremely hard working, dedicated individual with an ability to develop rapport quickly with his contacts. Subject works long hours including weekends without complaining and is always available when there is a job to be done. Subject has demonstrated those qualities of management, initiative, drive and devotion to duty that are necessary to perform the many and varied tasks of a fast and continually changing situation. The Reviewing Officer concurs with the Rating Officer's overall evaluation of *[Strong]*

| DATE        | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                         |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| SEP 24 1963 | Deputy Chief of Station              | /s/ Frederick J. INGHURST (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.) |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

No change from previous report submitted 19 January 1963.

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

| DATE        | SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE                             |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 27 March 63 | /s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed on Field Transmittal) |

2. BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

12

| DATE        | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                   |
| ----------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| 27 March 63 | Chief, PW Branch             | /s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD (signed on Field Transmittal) |

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

| DATE         | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                  |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| 2 April 1963 | Chief of Station, JMWAVE             | /s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN (signed on Field Transmittal) |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# FITNESS REPORT

SECRET

SECTION A

1. NAME Joannides, George E.

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY
CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions - Section C)

ANNUAL X

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 5 July 1922

3. SEX Male 99

4. GRADE GS-14

5. SD D

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT DDP/S.A.S.

8. CURRENT STATION JMWAVE

Asfuid

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to-) 1 January 1963 - 31 March 1963

SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

POSTED ON 16 APR 63

RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Annual fitness report covering the period 1 January - 31 December 62 still current.

RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING LETTER

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

1. NAME

Joannidis, George E. General

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER
RESERVE
TEMPORARY
CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Instructions - Section C)

SPECIAL:

ANNUAL

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

SECTION B

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to-)

1 January 1962 - 31 December 1962

## PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak
Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate
Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding
Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

## SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Deputy Chief of Branch handling (in absence of Chief) all aspects political action and psychological warfare and supervising fifteen case officers and clerical personnel.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Case Officer for student project involving political action, propaganda, intelligence collection and hemisphere-wide apparatus.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Case Officer for teacher's organization engaged in hemisphere-wide press and radio propaganda.

SPECIFIC DUTY. NO. 4

Case Officer on project producing news letter aimed at press outlets in Latin America.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Maintains contacts with key elements of a veteran's type organization as a developmental project.

OVERALL PERFORMANCE. IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

## NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicableSubject's strengths lie in his ability to analyze a problem quickly and skillfully, to strip it of unnecessary detail and to render a decision without waste of motion. He has contributed greatly to the efficiency of the Branch by eliminating unproductive ventures, counseling the members and promoting the principles of correct tradecraft. He has been successful in resolving complicated problems involving control of an unruly group. He has a strong personality and firm convictions about the proper manner of carrying on covert operations and voices his convictions without fear. He is an excellent supervisor and is respected by the members of the branch for his forthrightness and his sober judgment and sound advice. His handling of agents and contacts on the outside both directly and indirectly mixes to a proper extent firmness and friendliness. In short he is a distinct asset to the clandestine services both administratively and operationally.

## CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

### BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

**DATE**

19 JAN 63

**SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE**

/s/ Walter D. NEWBY (signed on Field Transmittal)

### BY SUPERVISOR

**MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION**

10 months

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

**DATE**

19 JAN 63

**OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR**

Chief/PW - JMWAVE

**TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE**

/s/ Robert K. TROUCHARD (signed on Field Transmittal)

### BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

**COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL**

Subject is an unusually competent officer in the field of covert action operations in that he blends a flair for this activity with sound tradecraft principles and a firm adherence to valid reporting techniques. Subject is dedicated and hard working and he has proven by performance that he is willing to work long hours in order to accomplish his operational objectives. Subject's overall performance warrants an evaluation of "strong" Subject has growth potential both as an intelligence officer and as a first echelon supervisor of individuals doing a basic intelligence task. Subject's activities come to the attention of the reviewing officer on a weekly basis.

**DATE**

FEB 1 5 1963

**OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL**

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

**TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE**

/s/ Andrew K. REUTEMAN (signed on Field Transmittal)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)