# DISPATCH

104-10103-10103 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/NOFORN
CONTINUED CONTROL

TO
Chief, WHD
Chief, EE

FROM
Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro

SUBJECT
BEDOX/Operational
SMEDIFY Information Concerning
Tad SZULC (201-050539)

ACTION REQUIRED
FYI

REFERENCE(S)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
HBRA 9438

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.
201-050539

DATE
20 June 1962

RE: "43-3" (CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

1.  Attached is a SMEDIFA report concerning Tadeusz SZULC which includes SMEDICEVA's traces on SZULC.

2.  Station has the following information regarding Ignacy SACHS, who is mentioned in the attachment.

ALBICUSPID from ALBICUSPID-5, 4 May 1961 (ultimate source: *Henryk HRANKROWSKI*, former member of the Polish Commercial Mission, in Brazil)

Ignacy SACHS, upon his return from India, will not work in the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but will be reassigned to the Latin American section of the Polish Ministry of Foreign Trade. He recently wrote a report on Latin America based upon material contained in the South and Central American press. He reportedly had a falling out with his superiors in the Foreign Ministry, hence the transfer.

ALBICUSPID from ABICUSPID-5, 30 May 1961 (ultimate source: *Czeslaw SLOWAKIEWICZ*, Polish diplomat)

Ignacy SACHS, after a period of disgrace, has a new job, economic assistant for underdeveloped countries in Department III of the Ministry of Foreign Trade.

FREDERICK L. ROUZKY

Distribution

1 - WHD w/attachment

1 - EE w/attachment

1 - Sao Paulo

2 - Files

19 June 1962/bcj

> [Figure: Image of handwritten notes]

ATT. A

PAGE NO.

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

2nd June, 1961.

Tadeusz SZULC

(4)3(6)

The Station copies of the original reports on SZULC have been destroyed. I attach, however, a memorandum consisting of selected entries from his card.

2. All the information is from the same source, a Polish *emigre* who knew SZULC personally and also had informants in the Polish Embassy.

3. There is little doubt that SZULC was pro-communist at the time, and that he co-operated with Ignacy SACHS, a cousin who was employed by the Press Section of the Polish Embassy, and provided him with "information". It would, however, be unwise to jump to the conclusion that this collaboration took the form of espionage, since SZULCs does not seem to have made any secret of the relationship.

4. I can find no evidence that Ignacy SACHS was an intelligence officer, but he seems to have been an active propagandist. He returned to Poland in 1954. A report from the same source, dated June 1956, stated that he then occupied the Brazilian desk at the Polish Institute for International Affairs.

![text: NOFORIN / Carte und intel]

![text: att. to 11BRA 9438]

![text: att. to //BRA 9438]

CS COPY

![text: AUJUNGZ 201-50537]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Tadeusz SZULC

Born: c. 1926.
Nationality: Pole. Naturalised U.S. citizen 1955.
Occupation: Journalist.

June 1947:
Used to work for the "Brazil Herald" and now for FRANCE PRESSE. Is, on good terms with the Polish Legation whom he supplies with information on Brazil. One of the party who accompanied Raul FERNANDEZ on his mission to Montevideo. He is the son of Seweryn SZULC.

Dec, 1947:
sub-source:
Re subject's efforts to find employment in American press circles. Mr. HORAN tried to help him, due to a letter of introduction from SZULC's uncle, Mohn WILEY, American Ambassador in Lisbon, but desisted on finding that SZULC had been connected with the Rio de Janeiro communist paper "Diretrizes".
Harold HORAN of
New York:

Feb. 1948:
Further details of subject's efforts to find a job in the United States. He is to work on the Palestine Commission of the U.N.O. as from middle of February.

March 1948:
Subject still in New York and writing regular reports on U.S. political affairs and personalities to the Polish Legation in Rio de Janeiro. Trying to get a job with U.S. Press through the influence of Mrs. J. WILEY.

Sept. 1949:
Subject at present in New York, married to an American girl, and working in one of the American News Agencies. Since arrival of new Legation (Warsaw) he was in touch with the Minister, the Secretary and the ex-Press Attache, the late Wikinski. Told by Warsaw Poles in Washington that to be useful he cannot have a job with the Press Dept. of the Washington Polish Embassy or the Polish Press Bureau in New York. Using his "Uncle" introduction letters (the U.S. Ambassador John Wiley married to Polish born, Irene BARUCH, who is the sister of the first Mrs. SZULC), he obtained a job with Americans on orders from the Poles. Subject is helped financially by the Polish Legation in Rio de Janeiro. Thanks to introduction letters from the WILEYS, SZULC penetrated several circles in New York. He is writing reports to Rio de Janeiro and working with people in New York and is considered useful for future tasks.

June 1951:
Nephew of newly appointed U.S. Ambassador in PANAMA, he is now trying to get a job in Panama as American correspondent. He has a job with U.P. in New York. In Rio de Janeiro in 1947/48, was fellow traveller and informed of communist nucleus on the staff of the communist newspaper "Diretrizes". Also worked for FRANCE PRESSE and reported regularly on the Polish colony in Rio de Janeiro.

June 1951:
Visited Rio de Janeiro from 11.6.51 to 27.6.51 when he returned to New York. Whilst in Rio, he was in touch with Igancy SACHS to whom he brought information from the USA. The two are relatives and boyhood friends and subject writes personal letters to SACHS containing matters of interest to the Polish Legation. Subject also has useful contacts in New York in political and artistic circles, obtained through his Aunt. Is believed to be trying to obtain American citizenship through having married an American woman.

/ - 2 - ......


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Sept, 1951: Personal reports on the U.S. Ambassador to Panama, John WILEY, continue to be forwarded by the Polish Legation in Rio de Janeiro to Warsaw via subject.

March 1952: Source met subject in America recently. Subject volunteered that he obtained much information on the differences of policy between the British and American Governments on the Persian problem through his aunt, the wife of John WILEY, and that he kept the Polish Government informed through Ignacy SACHS. He boasted acquaintance with Drew PEARSON and the Shah of Persia.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)