# Question S

HOW MUCH MONEY IS IN THE BUDGET FOR PAYMENT TO CONTRACT
EMPLOYEES? SOME OF THE PEOPLE WHO HAD RELATIONSHIP
TO THE CIA AND WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THE WATERGATE
BURGLARY WERE SAID TO BE CONTRACT EMPLOYEES. IS THIS
THE CASE? TO WHAT EXTENT ARE THE SAME CONTROLS
PLACED ON YOUR CONTRACT EMPLOYEES AS ARE PLACED
ON REGULAR STAFF EMPLOYEES?

Proposed Reply

The CIA budget for 1975 includes ($279.5 million) for the
salaries and benefits of (14,000) staff employees (end-of-year ceiling)
and($32.6 million for the same expenses for (2,348) contract
employees.

With respect to the relationship to the CIA of the seven
individuals involved in the Watergate burglary, one of them at the
time of the break-in was a part-time contract employee (Martinez),
one was a former full-time contract employee (Barker), two were
retired staff employees (Hunt and McCord). The remaining
individuals (Liddy, Sturgis and Gonzalez) were never connected
with CIA in any capacity. (See attached sheet for details on these
seven individuals). These facts have been set forth previously in
the testimony of __________ before __________ and we believe members of the Appropriations Committee are fully aware of all significant developments in this area.

Not all contract employees have the same type of contract.
Some are subject to all the controls that are placed on regular staff
employees. Others, however, are employed for a specific purpose,
generally limited in time, for the use of their talents and/or disciplines
in meeting a particular need of the Agency, and these are not all
subject to all the controls which apply to full-time staff employees.
Both Barker and Martinez were in this latter category of contract
employees. The obligations of such contract employees are as stated
in their contracts.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Question 28

MR. DIRECTOR, WHEN YOU WERE BEFORE THE COMMITTEE LAST
YEAR WE ASKED YOU TO OUTLINE FOR US THE PARTICIPATION IN
THE WATERGATE BURGLARY AND THE SUBSEQUENT ATTEMPT
TO COVER UP WHITE HOUSE INVOLVEMENT IN THAT BURGLARY
AND YOU DID SO VERY WELL. HAS ANYTHING BEEN UNCOVERED
IN THE YEAR SINCE YOU WERE HERE IN THIS AREA. HAS ANY
FURTHER PARTICIPATION BY CIA PERSONNEL BEEN REVEALED.

Proposed Reply

A brief answer to this question is that there have been major
developments regarding allegations of CIA participation in the Watergate
burglary and the subsequent attempt to cover up White House involve-
ment. However, as the definition of Watergate has been expanded to
include other matters we have continued our rigorous attempts within
the Agency to learn everything possible about any Agency personnel
associations and correspondence on these developments. In line with
this the following actions have been or are being taken.

a. Senator Baker's continuing requests for record
searchs and files are being pursued.

b. Testimony of Agency personnel before the Senate
Select Committee has been completed.

c. Requests for Agency documents and files for
the Office of the Special Prosecutor are continuing to be
supplied.

d. Requests for Agency documents and files for
the Special Counsel of the Impeachment Committee are
being honored.

Our search has not revealed the participation of any CIA
personnel not previously identified.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)