104-10215-10215

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Mrs. Argentina C. Crozier A-11 937 507

Admitted to the U S. as an immigrant: March 12, 1960

Typer 0-1 Ports SNA (San Ontánio, Tex.)

Date of Birth: March 15, 1915

Received FOREIGN ADDRESS AND OCCUPATION INDEX CARD (Budget Bureau No. 43-R390)

and Dept of Justice ID card Form No. 1-151 thru my home address at Longmont Colorado about March 12 April 1960.

Index Card filled and mailed on 19 April 1960.

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

RECIBO POR DINERO

Nº 050

RECIBI de Cash

31 de January de 19 51

la suma de Seven hundred fifty and no '100 colones

por Services rendered, month of January

![C 750.00]

Russ L. Currier

27-14

27-14

27-14

27-14
27-1
21-14

301-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

RECIBO POR DINERO

Nº 009
30. de April de 195.53
RECIBI de Cash
la suma de Eight hundred colones 00/100
por Services rendered, 16-30 April

![image of colones amount] ($800.00)

Coss L. Grocer

![scribbled text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

BIOGRAPHICAL: Consuelo Felicia CORDERO Calderon

| From      | To          | Place                               | Employment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Employer          | Address                   |
| --------- | ----------- | ----------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------- |
| 1 Jan 57  | 20 May 57   | San Jose, C.R.                      | Manicurist                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 | Juan BORDALLO     | 62 entre Av 3 - 5         |
| 20 May    | 1 July 57   | Havana, Cuba                        | Salon BORDALLO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |                   |                           |
| 2 July    | 13 April 58 | San Jose, C.R.                      | Unemployed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                   |                           |
| 14 Apr 58 | July 58     | 160 Main St. Quincy 69, Mass.       | Salon BORDALLO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Juan BORDALLO     | 62 entre Av 3 - 5         |
| July 58   | 27 Dec 58   | Mexico City                         | Unemployed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |                   |                           |
| 27 Dec 58 | Mar 59      | 180 Main St. Quincy 69, Mass.       | Salon Moderno                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              | Esperanza HERRERA | Av. Alvaro Obregon No 174 |
| Mar 59    | 17 Mar 60   | 550 Riverside Dr. New York 27, N.Y. | Unemployed. Student at Wilfred Academy - 1657 Broadway 51st also employed at Glamour Cut, 353 E. 204 St., Bronx, N.Y. also employed at Ciro's Coffiure, Lexington Av 91st and 92nd. also employed at Jacques Beauty Salon, Inc. 160 West 55th Street, N.Y. |                   |                           |
| 21 Mar 60 | to date     | 226 Burgess Ave Alexandria, Va.     | Temporarily unemployed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                   |                           |


> DATES WERE TAKEN FROM PAST PORT TRAVEL

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Nº 069

30 de. June de 1949

RECIBI de Cash

la suma de four hundred and no/100 cclones

por services rendered, month of June

![C 400.00]

Ross L. Currir

27-19-11

27-19-13

27-19-16

27-19-18

27-19-19

27-19-20

27-19-18

FILE IN 201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

ROSS L. CROZIER
Representative

PUBLIC SURVEYS INSTITUTE
GENERAL POLLING SERVICE
RIVERSIDE 1-3674

532 FIDELITY UNION LIFE BLDG.
1511 BRYAN STREET
DALLAS, TEXAS

See Subject's Cover file
in Operations folder

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET
Security Information

MEMORANDUM TO: PLANS

FROM: WHD

SUBJECT: Project HINANOID

Project HUMANOID is the most important single project of the San Jose Station, and the basis for all existing and contemplated 050 activities in the area. It is requested that the restrictions imposed upon project HUMANOID, as contained in TRS-W-635, copy attached, be lifted at this time, and the Chief of Station be authorized to direct the activities of HUMANOID into the following channels.

(a) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-3, the Station's penetration of the Vanguardia Popular, Costa Rican Cocmunist Party, in order to utilise fully the agents potentialities. HUMANOID-3 is intelligent, has a wide knowledge of Communist activities, pleas and personalities and is desirous of cooperating to the extent on his ability. After a thorough de-briefing of HUMAFOLD-3 by HUMANOID, in order to ac uaint him, HUMANOID-3 with the Station's specific Interests and requirements, plus the subsequent close supervision which will be exercised by HUMANOID, and the continuing close supervision of EUMANOID-3 by HUMANOID, it is felt that the station will then be in a position to provide intensive and adequate coverage of the objectives assigned to it in the San Jose SCI.

(b) Direct and close supervision of HUMANOID-4, the Station's penetration of the Women's Fronts affiliated with the Vanguardia Popular. It is felt that the forcer cut-out HUCKLEBONE, who handled HUMANOID until 1 June 1949, vas somewhat inept in his operational dealings, which possibly may account for what seems to be a lack of productivity in the HUMANOID- project. HUKARCID-4 has an intimate relationship with active CP members in Costa Rica, both on a lov and high level, and possesses a definite potential for both indepenient reporting, and for spotting a likely individual to be used as a parallel to the HUMANOID-3 project. HUMANOID, who will now handle HUMANOID-4, is capable of directing this agents efforts into the proper channels, and capitalizing fully on the talents possessed by the individual. It is felt that this is another instance whereby HUHAHOID, by working closely and directly with the individual can make a substantial contribution to the efforts of the San Jose Station.

(c) Direct and close supervision of HUFANOID-1 and HUMANOID-2, the mail intercept operations presently covering the General Post Office in San Jose. The information that HUMANOID-1 has access to is important and is of documentary reliability. His position is inportant to the operational structure of the station.

SEGRET

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET
Security

-2-

a very satisfactory type of agent. He displays a certain amount
of initiative in voluntarily performing tasks not specifically
requested by the Chief of Station through the cut-out HUMANOID.
HUMANOID-2 has demonstrated the qualities of willingness, discretion,.
and cooperation.

(4) As to the principal agent of Project HUMANOID, the
following observations are submitted, which will indicate
unmistakeably the value of this project, and its contribution
to the successful activities of the San Jose Station.

Evaluation of services - As the principal agent
and station cut-out, HUMANOID is charged with the direction
and guidance of HUMANOID-1; HUMANOID-2; HUMANOID-3;
HUMANOID-4. His handling of these agents is carried out in
a professional and efficient manner, and his personal comments
and corrections on their reports, based on his long acquaintance
with local personalities and conditions, are of considerable
value. His attitude remains enthusiastic and willing.

Evaluation of information - The information produced
by the agents being handled by HUMANOID is of great value
to the station. In addition to his own production, this
agento operations are well suited to checking on information
received from other sources.

COMMENTS - Despite the fact that HUMANOID has been working under
certain operational restrictions for a number of months, his valve to the
station continues to be of major importance. In addition to the tangible
and measurable information produced by and through him, HUMANOID has
proved to be the single most valuable source of background and orientation
data for the Chief of Station. His knowledge of the history of Costa
Rican communist activities and personalities, and his grasp of the various
revolutionary movements and figures has been freely shared with the
Chief of Station. These "briefing meetings" represent an intangible
contribution to the over-all performance of the Station. HUMANOID 18.
eager to expand his operations and upon the removal of present operational
restrictions it is believed that he can be given further responsibilities,
particularly in the recruiting of additional sub-agents. The station is
presently interested in accomplishing a parallel penetration of the
Commist Party of Costa Rica, in expanding routine investigative coverage
and in developing additional sources on political movements. It is
believed that HUMANOID can insure the success of these new ventures.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# HUMANOD

> COSTA RICA

1. HUMANOD

A. Identifying data:

(a) Nationality: U.S. citizen, born 22 June 1922
(b) Education: High school and attending college in Costa Rica.
(c) Occupation: Sergeant in U.S. Air Force during World War II, and an agent of the Panama Station until early 1949
(d) Marital status: Married
(e) Time devoted to our work: Approximately 40%
(f) How contacted: By Chief of Station

B. Humanoid is a cutout for projects Lugger, Humankind 1 and 3, and Hamist-2. See attachments.

2. Production:

(a) Description of info produced: Communist penetration of labor groups and student groups.

(b) Statistics on reports received and disseminated:

July thru December 3 received 3 dissem.

(c) Headquarters evaluation of info received: 8-2

3. Cost of Project: $89.05 per month. Shown following payments:

July $34.42 October $50.39
August 34.42 November 51.63
September 34.42 December 51.63 ?

4. Administration by headquarters:

(a) Operational clearance granted.

(b) Allotment sheet up to date.

5. General Evaluation:

Humanoid is considered an excellent agent in all respects. His value is more than commensurate with his salary.

SECRET

201-16887


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER:

1.  If feasible, subject should fill in Part 1 of FRQ in his own hand.

2.  Part II of FRQ is classified, must be filled in by the Case Officer and is *not* to be shown to subject.

3.  Headquarters will not be able to provide an Operational Clearance unless it receives answers to all questions on page 1 of Part I (Items 1 to 12), and to all questions of Part II (Items 36 to 38).

4.  In emergency these answers, keyed to Items 1 to 12 by number, and with summary of Part II, may be cabled to Headquarters, followed promptly by pouch with complete data.

5.  Fully completed FRQ must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible, two copies of Part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and one copy of Part II.

6.  Data acquired later must be sent to Headquarters in FRQ format on a continuing basis.

7.  All pages of both parts will bear the FRQ number, composed of (a) Station symbol (b) FRQ (c) number assigned consecutively by the field station; e.g. PGA/FRQ/10.

36. Cryptonym Arthur G. VAIVADA

37. How, when and where was subject first contacted or developed?

Subject was first recruited in Panama as HYDROPATHIC in November 1948 and transferred to Costa Rica in approved HUMANOID project. Subsequently was transferred to BIRADIAL project, PBSUCCESS and in 1954 to AMPHODARCH project (Cuba) with which he is currently identified.

38. Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to

someone else for handling? Yes To whom? Record over the past nine years shows that subject has easily been turned over to different projects and case officers.

39. Best estimate of subject's motivation

Subject is motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to advance in the organization as a career, its remuneration and as loyal U. S. citizen.

FORM NO. 51-958
MAY 1950

-7-

SECRET

FRQ

201-168581


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

40. With what agencies and files has subject's name been checked? When?
    Result? What else has been done to verify biographical information furnished by subject?

Checked upon recruitment in Panama in 1949 and subsequently upon transfer to other projects.

41. What control exists over subject at present? How can it be increased?

Subject is controlled through dependence on salary, loyalty because of American heritage, past Army and Agency service, and a desire for a career in intelligence work.

42. For what service does he think he is working? What does he think becomes of his information?

Subject is cognizant of the identity of this organization.

43. Explain fully subject's past or present connection with any intelligence service.

Subject previously in U. S. Army and Air Force Intelligence.

44. What type of information has subject furnished? What type is he best qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give evaluation of information received.

Subject has furnished information received from sub-agents on Comminist and revolutionary activities throughout the Central American-Caribbean area. Is nov P/A in Cuban project with those primary objectives. Work to date has been outstanding. Has been particularly valuable in development and recruitment of new agents.

- 8 -
  SECRET

PROL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

45. If subject's duties are to be other than intelligence gathering, explain.

Only those functions (Administrative-Operational) normally exercised by P/A.

46. Has he been given special training as an agent? Explain.

U. S. Army Intelligence Training and Agency covert training from 5 October through 25 November 1953. Additional covert training at Headquarters planned for April-May 1957.

47. How and from whom does he obtain information?

From indigenous student-youth elements, with whom he maintains contact and who in turn have entree to Cuban Communist and revolutionary circles.

48. Is it proposed to pay subject a regular salary? If so, amount per week, month, etc. Explain any other methods of payment, such as exchange, commodities.

Subject is to receive $6,390 annually, plus allowances, with provisions for normal step increases, and promotion when justified.

49. Have any promises or commitments whatsoever (not covered elsewhere in this form) been made to subject? Explain.

No.

50. Are subject's language abilities and other characteristics such that he could pass as a native of a country or region other than his own? Explain.

Has native fluency in language and would at least pass as long-time resident and possibly even national of certain Central American-Caribbean countries, although has obviously foreign physical characteristics.

-9-
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

51. What is subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper middle class, lower middle class, peasantry, etc.?

Upper Middle Class

52. What are subject's personal habits? Liquor, drugs, gambling, mistresses or lovers?

Believed to be normal in all respects.

53. Evaluation of subject's character, reliability, security.

All noted excellent.

54. With what other foreign power would subject be most likely to collaborate because of his ideology, obligation, etc.? Explain.

None

55. What special abilities, talents, or qualifications are possessed by subject which would conceivably be of value for other operations in the future?

Subject can send and receive Morse Code.

56. Attach samples of subject's signature and handwriting in all languages known to him, also a recent, dated photograph, and fingerprints.

Previously submitted.

- 10 -
  SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

57. How was information in Part I obtained?

From Subject personally.

58. Other miscellaneous operational data and comments.

Outstanding record led first to recommendation that subject be converted to staff status; following which it was determined that a career agent designation would be more appropriate in his case.

Case officer

- 11 -
  SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH -- ROSS L. CROZIER

Ross L. CROZIER was born on 20 June 1922 in De Kalb, Illinois and is the eldest of five children of a respectable middle-class family. His parents and his two brothers and two sisters now reside in Sterling, Illinois. Crozier received his primary and high school education in De Kalb and entered the U.S. Army in 1940, later transferring to the Army Air Corps. He served as an operations and intelligence specialist, first in the China-India-Burma Theatre and later in Panama. Crozier was discharged from the service in August 1945, leaving with the grade of Technical Sergeant. After his discharge, Crozier worked about three months as a laboratory technician in the Sterling (Illinois) Silica-Cel Corporation and then returned to the Canal Zone to marry Argentina CORDERO C., a Costa Rican girl in December 1945. He then worked about four months as a stevedore. and labor foreman in the Canal Zone. In April 1946 he re-enlisted in the Air Force in the Canal Zone, from which he was discharged three years later in 1949 at his previous grade of Technical Sergeant.

Crozier became an Agency contract agent on 1 June 1949. He was originally scheduled to be used in Panama but was assigned to the HUMANOID Project in Costa Rice instead. While there he successfully handled a high level penetration of the Costa Rican Communist Party. In 1953 he was sent to Headquarters for training, and in 1954 he was assigned to PBCCCESS for a brief period. In July 1954 he signed a new contract in Washington whereby he became the new principal

SECRET

201-168771


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

agent of Project AMPHODARCH. He is under student cover and is actually working for his BA derree at the University of Habana, for which he has approximately 1 more year of academic work to complete.

?

Crozier has a healthy appearance and appears to be about (25) instead of 32 years of age. He is athletically inclined and has been, and is at present, interested in organizing and participating in intra-mural athletics. He is happily married and the father of two children. He possesses a great deal of integrity, honesty, intelligence, and resourcefulness. His chief hobby, aside from sports, is photography. He has made quite a study of picture-taking and has developed a portrait photo technique which he has found useful in his work and as an aid to obtaining extra spending money while going to school. The Chief of Habana Mission and WHD have a strong feeling that this man will perform his duties in a superior manner and will make "MPHODARCH a valuable and worthwhile project.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT         | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                         |                       |
| --------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | --------------------- |
|                             | RI FILE NO.                                     |                       |
|                             | DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.              | DATE                  |
| ANALYST                     | SOURCE CRYPTORYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION       |                       |
| mw                          | DATE PROCESSED 22 July 58                       | DISSEMINATED IN- DATE |
| CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |                       |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/CA FOLDER ON THE SUB:

OF TEIS 201 HELD UNDER CF 25507

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-16 8881

FORM NO. 867 REPLACES FORM 867. 1 AUG 54
1 MAY 56 AND FORM 137 WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SECRET

(7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET
=(When Filled-In)

# PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

APR 1960

TO RI/ANALYSIS SECTION
FROM RID/20

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must be typed or printed in block letters.

SECTION I: List 201 number, name and identifying data in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the aliase used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION II: List cryptonyms or pseudonyms, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete Section I and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section II and Section III. Submit each form separately.

SECTION III: To be completed in all cases.

## SECTION I

201 NO. 168881

1. SOURCE DOCUMENT

*CROZIER*, Ross *LESTER*

TYPE NAME

NAME VARIANT

SEX

PHOTO

BIRTH DATE

COUNTRY OF BIRTH USA

CITY OR TOWN OF BIRTH ILLINOIS

OTHER IDENTIFICATION

## SECTION II

PSEUDONYM

## SECTION III

COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE 050

ACTION DESK 650

2ND COUNTRY INTEREST

3RD COUNTRY INTEREST

COMMENTS: CIT: USA

CS COPY

201- 168881

PERMANENT CHARGE

RESTRICTED FILE

SIGNATURE

FORM NO. 831 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET
(When Filled In)

# PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

RE-PUNCH

TO
# RI/ANALYSIS SECTION
FROM
WH/77
DATE
ACTION
ROOM NO.
TELEPHONE
OPEN
AMEND
CLOSS
1130-C
INSTRUCTIONS: Form must he typed or printed in block letters.
SECTION 1: List 201 number, name and identifying data in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden narse, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for iteros you are unable to complete.
SECTION II: List cryptonym or pseudonym, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and comparte Section 1 and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section 11 and Section 111. Submit each form separately.
SECTION Ill: To be completed in all cases.

SENSITIVE
HONSENSITIVE

SECTION I

201 NO.
1. SOURCE DOCUMENT

NAME
ROZIER
(Last)
(First)
(Middle)
(Title)
SEX
M
TYPE
NAME 2.
NAJAE VARIANT

(Last)
(First)
(Middle)
(Title)

PHOTO
4. BIRTH DATE
5. COUNTRY OF BIRTH
6. CITY OR TOWN OF BIRTH
7. OTHER IDENTIFICATION
8.
USA
ILLINE/S
OCCUPATION/POSITION
SECTION II

CRYPTONYM
PSEUDONYM
NEMLJE HOLOLER
VEINATE ARTER & FROF
COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE
SECTION III
10. ACTION DESK
11. SECOND COUNTRY INTEREST
12. THIRD COUNTRY INTEREST
12a.
MEX
WH/3M
COMMENTS:
CIT: USA
201-32723
Closed 3 May 57

PERMANENT CHARGE
RESTRICTED FILE
SIGNATURE
201-

Form No. 831 Use previous editions.
1 Oct. 56
SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
JHR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
SECRET
(When Filled In)

# PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

TO

RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FROM

RI/CO Amelia Superfisky

|          | DATE       | ACTION             |
| -------- | ---------- | ------------------ |
|          | 3 May 1957 | X Open Amend Close |
| ROOM NO. |            | TELEPHONE          |
| 2301 L   |            | 3127               |

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must be typed or printed in block letters.

SECTION I: List 201 number, name and identifying data in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION II: List cryptonym or pseudonym, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete Section I and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section II and Section III. Submit each form separately.

SECTION III: To be completed in all cases.

SECTION I

|                           | 201 NO. | 1. SOURCE DOCUMENT |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ------------------ |
| X SENSITIVE  NONSENSITIVE | 168881  |                    |

| NAME         | (Last)   | (First) | (Middle) | (Title) | SEX | 3.  |
| ------------ | -------- | ------- | -------- | ------- | --- | --- |
|              | CROZIER  | Ross    | L.       |         | #   | #   |
| TYPE NAME 2. | (Last)   | (First) | (Middle) | (Title) |     |     |
| ----------   | -------- | ------- | -------- | ------- |     |     |
|              |          |         |          |         |     |     |

| PHOTO               | 4.  | BIRTH DATE    | 5.  | COUNTRY OF BIRTH | 6.       | CITY OR TOWN OF BIRTH | 7.  | OTHER IDENTIFICATION | 8.  |
| ------------------- | --- | ------------- | --- | ---------------- | -------- | --------------------- | --- | -------------------- | --- |
| YES                 |     | 6-6-1-22      |     | USA              | Illinois |                       |     |                      |     |
| OCCUPATION/POSITION |     | OCC/POS. CODE |     |                  |          |                       |     |                      |     |


SECTION II

| CRYPTONYM | PSEUDONYM         |
| --------- | ----------------- |
|           | Arthur G. VAIVADA |


SECTION III

| COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE | 10. ACTION DESK | 11. SECOND COUNTRY INTEREST | 12. THIRD COUNTRY INTEREST | 12a. |
| -------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---- |
|                      | wh/III/Caba     |                             |                            |      |
|                      | WH/3C4          |                             |                            |      |

COMMENTS:


|     | PERMANENT CHARGE | X   | RESTRICTED FILE |     | SIGNATURE |
| --- | ---------------- | --- | --------------- | --- | --------- |
|     | YES              | NO  | YES             | NO  |           |

201- 168881

Amelia Superfisky

Form No. 831 Use previous editions.

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
PUNCHED
(28)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

OZIER, Koss L. 201-16888

SECRET

Vol. I of V

# OFFICIAL CS FILE

(Undated - Dec. 51)

![FORM 1505 B]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

3 Feb-25
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on CROZIER (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies, affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7.
Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Code A1.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened:
OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3.

Potential witting collaborator never contacted. OI Code A4.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

All others. OI Code A6.

Signed _Boy Gilron Goffee LA/M/F/ (name) (title) (component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed _NR_ (initials) 12 Feb 75 (date)

This document is a permanent part of this file. 201- 168881

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET
(When Filled In)

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061475


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE

OMF 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF IFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP

302044Z DIRECTOR

CITE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

650063

DISSEM BY: 13

TO: LIMA, QUITO, GUAYAQUIL, SANTIAGO, BUENOS AIRES, MEXICO CITY

INFO PANTECH, DIRTECH, BANGTECH, TOKYTECH.

TAPPER/CO STARPOYO TECHS

REF: DIRECTOR 618825 (BEING RELAYED MEXICO CITY)

1. IN REFINEMENT OF REF REQUIREMENT QUERY-WHETHER ADDRESSEES
   HAVE AN ASSET WHO IS ETHNIC CHINESE WITH LATIN AMERICA ORDINARY
   PASSPORT WHO COULD APPLY FOR A PRC TOURIST VISA. IF YES, PLEASE
   HAVE ASSET CONTACT PRC EMBASSY AND ASK IF THEY WOULD ISSUE TOURIST
   VISA AND HOW LONG IT WOULD TAKE BEFORE ASSET COULD OBTAIN VISA.

2. WE ARE TRYING TO DETERMINE WHETHER PRC EMBASSY WILL ISSUE
   VISA FOR TOURIST PURPOSES TO SINGLETON TRAVELERS OF ETHNIC CHINESE
   ORIGIN WHO ARE NATIVE OR NATURALIZED LA CITIZENS WHO HAVE NO RELA-
   TIVES IN CHINA.

3. IF PER ABOVE AN APPROPRIATE ASSET CAN BE IDENTIFIED, WE
   WOULD CONSIDER REQUESTING STATION CONCERNED TO LAUNCH HIM ON A SIMPLE
   OPS SUPPORT MISSION TO PRC: I.E., TO COLLECT INFO ON PRC DOCUMEN-
   TATION CONTROL BASED ON SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS TO THE ASSET BEFORE
   LAUNCH.

DATE: 29 JANUARY 75

ORIG: JACK/KOJIMOTO/YET

UNIT: CH/OCEA

EXT: 1730

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

65-0063

4. PLEASE ADVISE BY 14 FEBRUARY. £2, IMPDET.H

*REQUEST ADDRESSEE STATIONS NOTIFY HQS IN ADVANCE OF ANY UPCOMING TRIPS TO THE PRC BY ITS OVERSEAS CHINESE ASSETS

COORD: OTS/AB - THOMAS KLINE (DRAFT)
AC/LA/M - R. U. STONE (DRAFT)
DC/LA/NW - J. HENNESSY (DRAFT)
{FOR} C/LA/SB - P. KITTREDGE (DRAFT)
DCEA/CH

![Signature of LA/TRS]

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

![Signature of CHIEF, LA]

CEA

E 2 IM.DET
CL RV.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Date 12 Dec 70

Corrective Microfilming

TRSA 347 20 may 49 211-162821


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SENT TO RID/AN

22 Dec 70

TZPW 411 8 Jan 49 201-168881

TRSW 275 27 Lee 48 " "

FRSA 925 11 May 51 " "

TRSW 643 28 May 51. " "

TRSA 974 10 July 5.1. " "

TZPA 365/01 4-Nov 48


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECURITY INFORMATION

TPS-698

DEC 7 1951

Chief of Station, San Jose

Acting Chief, WE

HUMANOID

RIFS: a. TES-4-1064
b. TPS-4-685

1. Headquarters files have just been admirably augmented through the receipt of reference a., which to say the least, sheds considerable, much needed light on this operation. This was a most welcome clarification of many of our questions concerning HUMANOID.

2. Upon his return to Headquarters, Dennie E. COPELAND reported your desire to have HUMANOID sign a new contract. It is suggested in this regard that you furnish as soon as possible any provisions which you wish to recommend for inclusion in the contract. Such recommendations will of course be in conformity with Sec. 52-3 of the regulations governing contract agents, not career agents. It would be most advantageous to submit such a contract for consideration simultaneously with a request for renewal of the operation at the end of February 1952.

3. Relative to your question in paragraph 2 of reference a., at the present time, TPS-4-685 is the current approved version of the extent of HUMANOID's operational activities. It is firmly believed that these restrictions will be removed when, in February 1952, this operation will be considered for renewal by the staff which imposed the curtailment. It is urged that in your quarterly review for the period ending 31 December 1951 you give Headquarters the benefit of another specific detailed report. At that time, we will also submit a request for increased salary for HUMANOID.

WM. M. WHEELER, JR.

By J. C. Bonnet

ACWH

R. W. RASTETTER

JCB:cb
7 Dec. 51
5 December 1951
201-168881

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

Air

VIA:

SECURITY INFORMATION DISPATCH NO

SECRET

TRSA-1084

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief, WHD

DATE: 19 November 1951

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational

SPECIFIC- HUMANOID Project

Ref: TRSW-685, TESA-1056, WASH 14671

1. TRSW-685, which advises that the expiration date of this-project-has-been-determined to be 29 February 1952, was received several days after the forwarding of TRSA-1056, which recommended that subject be considered for career agent status. Although TRSA-1056 furnished certain of the data requested by headquarters, the following additional information, queries and comments are set forth with a view to facilitating a final evaluation of the project.

2. Pursuant to the approval contained in TRSW-655, dated June 29, 1951, HUMANOID has been and is currently acting as cutout for HUMANIST-2, as well as for HUMANKIND-1 and HUMANKIND-3. It is therefore not clear whether paragraph 2.b. of TRSA-685 is to be interpreted as a new restriction on his activities which is to be placed into effect at this time. In other words, is headquarters' approval of the suggestions contained in TRSA-950 now withdrawn?

3. As discussed in TRSA-950, assistance was extended HUMANOID in setting up a photography and photocopy shop on the fringe of the downtown area. Funds formerly used for rental of a safehouse were applied instead as rental for his photo shop, with the purpose of providing a safe meeting place between HUMANOID and HUMANIST-2 and to provide a more accessible spot for the processing of HUMANKIND material. Farly in July 1951, after two or three weeks experience with photostating HUMANKIND material at the studio demonstrated the unsuitability of the arrangement, HUMANOID resumed his photostatic work in his own home. The studio has continued to serve as a meeting place for HUMANIST-2. The following considerations entered into the decision to discontinue processing HUMANKIND-1 and 3 material at the photo studio: 1) The conspicuous nature of the equipment in a small shop; 2) the security risks caused by the presence in the studio of HUMANOID's local employee; and 3) the lack of any secure storage space for compromising material

4. Since the dispatch of TRSA-1056, HUMANOID has been notified by his photographic assistant that the latter is resigning

FORM
51-28 A

SECRET

TRSA 1084

19 NOV 51

CLASSIFICATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# Page 2

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

TRSA-1084

to seek more remunerative employment-at the end_of this month.
-HUMANOID-states that he is unable to devote sufficient time to the
business to keep it going without_an_assistant-and-that it would be
quite difficult to locate a competent workman at the salary level he
can afford to pay. The above facts, plus unfavorable findings of a
recent financial analysis of his business, have convinced HUMANOID.
to close the photograph shop at the end of November.

5. In connection with paragraph 2.d. of TRSW-685, which
   states that HUMANOID must discontinue using his home to reproduce
   the material obtained from HUMANKIND-1 and HUMANKIND-3, the following
   brief history of safehouse experience at this station is set forth.
   A review of the files and discussion with KUKARCID reveals that seven
   safehouses have been utilized to date:

a. An-office room in the Panana Company building in San
José from June, 1959, to Jovember, 1949, used to process
HUMANKIND material. Abandoned when it was learned the
room was called the "FBI office upstairs" by other resi-
dents of the building.

b. An apartment in Bella Vista from November, 1949, to
January, 1950, used to process HUMANKIND material.
Abandoned because landlord lived next door and used
common entrance.

c. One-half of a house in San Pedro, which had private
entrance. Abandoned because the notorious Frank MARSHALL
was neighbor. MARSHALL is enemy of the Communist Party
and knew HUMANIST-2 by sight.

d. An apartment in Parque Forazán. After two months this
was abandoned as neighbors began making inquiries con-
cerning infrequency of visits to the house.

e. Apartment in Barrio Luján, for four months. This was
abandoned as many Party members lived nearby and knew
HUMANIST-2 by sight.

f. A house near the Sabana airport for seven months, used
to process HUMANKIND material. Frequent vacancy of the
premises caused speculation by neighbors and landlord.

g. Photographic studio as discussed above. In addition to
stated reasons for closing above safehouses, two house
breakings were suffered, and it was frequently feared
that the reproduction equipment might be stolen when it
became apparent that persons were seldom in the houses.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Page 3

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

TRSA-1084

6. In view of headquarters intention to terminate this project, it is not deemed advisable at this time to install-HUMANGID-in-a-new-safehouse to process HUMANKIND material. Accordingly, headquarters advice is requested as to whether HUMANOID may continue using his house for the next few contlis, or whether this operation should be suspended immediately, inasmuch as no suitable alternate cutout has been located to date.

7. In reply to your request for comment on the salary increase for HUMANOID recommended by the former Chief of Station, please be advised that the writer concurs in the recommendation. As indicated in TRSA-1056 and. TRSA-999, this agent has been living on a very close financial margin and has been aware of the recommended raise for some months. It is conceivable that he has taken-the-rai-se--possibility into consideration in his personal financial arrangements. In any event, should headquarters decide to terminate subject, it is recommended that several months salary be authorized as a termination bonus in order that there will be no likelihood of security consider-ations arising from subject's possibly over-extenced financial position. This bonus payment is believed justified by subject's long tenure of service.

8. With regard to paragraph 3 of TRSW-685, there have been no changes in subject's cover and current codes of contact and communication fron those set out in TRSA-950. HULANIST-2 makes a weekly door-slot drop at night at the photographic studio, and a live Geeting takes place at the studio approximately three nights a month, with safety-danger signals being utilized. In addition, HUMANOID meets once or so a month with HUGGER, either at her home or at the studio. HUMANKIND contacts remain the same. My contacts with HUMANOID have taken place at his home, in aark, in a local pensión, at my home, and in coffee hers on a steggered schedule of about once a week.

9. with reference to WASE 14671, please be advised that absolutely no commitments have been made to subject, and, on the contrary, hints have been dropped to aim of a possible curtailment of funds which might require discontinuing certain operations here. No difficulty is anticipated in terminating subject upon receipt of final instructions from headquarters.

10. With further reference to WASH 14671, your attention is respectfully invited to the following headquarters files which reflect opinions and evaluations of subject by other staff personnel:

TZPA-365 Part II "Subject's superiors regard this man as highly dependable."

TZPA-365 Part I "Subject's immediate superior is Lt. Col. Wm. R. PORRES, Director of Intelligence, CAIRC, who recommends subject highly."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

Page 4

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

TRSA-1084

TRSA-403 "Subject is considered to be extremely reliable and intelligent, which, combined with his past experience, qualify him for a wide range of assignments."

TREA-589 "...services have been of considerable value to operations. The agents which he handles are the most productive of those now being used by this station, and his management of these informants has been excellent from both an information and security viewpoint."

FRSA-646 "...his integrity, discretion, and industry cannot be too highly commended, and we feel that he is eminently suited for staff or cover employ- ment in any capacity deemed commensurate with his intellectual and other abilities."

TRSA-860 "...the services of this agent are extremely valuable to this station."

TRSA-999 "...the services of this agent continue to be extremely valuable..... In view of his importance to this station, his ability and his willingness to devote time to the work when needed, it is recommended that he be considered for a raise in pay..."

TRSA-641 "...his experience and ability is such that he could probably be of use to the organization anywhere in Latin America."

11. The above file history, plus approximately three months observation and direction of HUMANOID served as the basis for my recommendation of career agent status.

12. At the risk of laboring the point, and solely on the basis of information available here, it appears that HUMANOID has pro- vided valuable service in the past, that he is currently an important factor in the operational structure of this station, and that he possesses certain potential for future use by the organization. In this connection, it is noted that headquarters inquired some time ago (TRSW-641) whether subject would be interested in working for the organization in another country. Although it is realized your interest in this possibility may no longer exist, for your information HUMANOID has stated that he would go to any other Latin American country, in any capacity, on short notice.

13. The instant dispatch is respectfully submitted for your information and in response to your queries. It is to be emphasized that headquarters desires with regard to Lodifying or terminating this project will be followed implicitly.

SECRET

201-168 8 8 1

James K. Russo

180-3-71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED-MESSAGE-

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET
"SECURITY INFORMATION"

To:
SAN JOSE

FROM:
POLICY COORDINATION/
SPECIAL OPERATIONS

CONFIRMATION:
WHD (-2)

INFORMATION:
IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7),
S/C (6-9-10), DDP (11)

PAGE NO.

ROUTINE

8 NOV 51

OUT 87290

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (f) 60A AR-380-5

WASH. 14671

TO: SANJFG

CITE: WASHFG

RE: TRSA-1056

MAKE NO COMMITMENTS RE FUTURE STATUS SUBJECT.AT PRESENT
HAVE NO PLANS CONTACT HIM HERE.HQS FILES DO NOT REFLECT BASIS
YOUR ENTHUSIASM SUBJECT'S USEFULNESS THIS AGENCY. HQS FAVORS
CONTINUING PRESENT STATUS.

V.L.GRESHAM
RELEASING OFFICER

JCB
ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS

501-168881

R.W.RASTETER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOD: 2351Z 8 NOV 51

SECRET

COPY No.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE

![logo of GPO]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRE
SECURITY INFORMATION

2 November 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: MR. RASTETTER AND MR. BONNET

FROM: Paul P. Paxton

SUBJECT: HUMANOID; Career Status

1.  I do not feel that this man's position in the political and social life in Costa Rica lends itself to our need for a career agent in that area. His financial position negates his accessibility to high-level information, and our requirements for Costa Rica should not be satisfied through outright subsidization of an agent in order to place him in a position of influence. His wife's knowledge of his work for us is lamentable and her Costa Rican background with substantial local political ties should be sufficient reason to belay any further consideration on our part for increasing his knowledge of our operations. Admittedly, he has performed a satisfactory service for the San Jose station, but his efforts are not so vital that his termination, in the event he decides to sever connections with us because of his failure to achieve more pramanent status, would be a permanent blow to our effectiveness there. With respect to his knowledge of future possibilities with us, we cannot be held responsible for unauthorized commitments that may have been made by the previous Chief of Station.

2.  The current status of HUMANOID should be established in line with TRS - 685.

WH/PPP/ie

2 November 1951

# SECRE

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# Air
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

TO : Chief, WHHD

DIS ATCH NO. TRSA-1056

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

DATE: 22 October 1951

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational

SPECIFIC- Humanoid

Ref: Field Memo 218

1. Serious consideration has been given to the suitability of Humanoid for career agent status, and in this connection, it is to be noted subject is partially aware of the possibilities of career agent status by virtue of a discussion with the former Chief of Station.

2. It appears that Humanoid fills the requirements set out in reference memorandum, as follows:

a. Humanoid.

b. His existing cover is well established and believed to be durable. He has been attending the local university for over two years; he built and owns his own home in Costa Rica; he is married to a Costa Rican and has two children born here; and he has a going business in the form of a photographic shop which provides an excuse for additional income.

c. SOI objectives assigned to Humanoid include supervised direction of Communist Party penetration (Humanist-2); supervised direction of Postal Intercept Project (Humankind); direct provision of information emanating from local university and intellectual circles of which subject is a member. Also, subject formerly directed attempted penetration of the Communist Party women's "front" group (Hugger).

d. It has been noted that subject's efficiency and productivity have been hampered by financial considerations in the past. He has had unusually heavy medical bills, and the rising cost of living in Costa Rica has presented economic problems in view of his modest income. It is felt that subject has valuable potential for expanding his operations under the status of career agent. With the removal or partial removal of economic pressure, subject would be able to devote additional time to the exploitation of numerous personal contacts in labor, government, religious, and political circles. He is

![SECTET CLASSIFICATION]

FORM NO.
MAR. 1949 51-28 A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

Page 2

SECRET

TRSA-1056

unusually adept at investigative technique, has the ability to balance risks involved against value of information to be obtained, and is thoroughly familiar with the geography and political trends in Costa Rica. To date, subject has confined his activities mostly to cutout and direction; however, it is believed that with additional freedom he could successfully engage in spotting, recruitment, general investigation, and independent reporting.

e. Subject has discussed his desire to send his wife and two children to his family in the United States late in October for a 60-day visit. He would then like to travel to the United States himself in late December for a brief visit with his parents in Illinois. This would be his first visit home in several years and would provide an excellent opportunity and cover for headquarters contact, either in Illinois or Washington, at which time formalities and necessary training could be accomplished. (NOTE: This planned trip of subject may temporarily interrupt contact with Humanist-2 and Humankind, as a suitable interim cutout has not yet been developed; but experience has shown that production from both sources practically dies out over the Christmas and New Year holidays in this country.

3. In connection with Paragraph e. above, it is to be noted that the travel plans of subject's wife have been complicated by advice from the Embassy Consular Section that the Immigration authorities at the port of entry into the United States may demand a $500.00 U.S. bond in substantiation of her intent to return to Costa Rica after the 60 days. This station is therefore considering advancing subject U.S. $500.00 in order to enable him to present the bond if it is demanded and to obviate the possibility of his spending several hundred dollars in travel money for his wife to a port of entry and return to Costa Rica if entry were denied. This money would not be used by subject for any other purpose and would be returned to station funds after successful entry of his wife into the United States.

4. In view of the fact that this Station has no basis for comparison with regard to possible salary figures which might be offered subject if career agent status is approved, no recommendation in this regard is being made. However, it is pointed out that subject has worked for the organization for almost four years, that his efficiency has been excellent, his grasp of intelligence requirements above average, his potential attractive, and that his present position in the operational structure of this Station is of major importance.

5. It is requested that this Station be advised if you are interested in considering subject for career agent status. If so, please advise whether contact will be had with subject while

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

Page 3

SECRET

TRSA-1056

he is in the United States. Also, will the government reimburse subject for travel expenditures for his trip. In view of the relatively short time remaining before his trip, it is requested that I be advised as soon as possible of pertinent details, such as length of time required for training, etc., in order that Humanoid may be briefed and in order that interim operational arrangements may be worked out.

6. It would be appreciated if a reply to the recommended salary increase of subject could be made available. (See TRSA-999 of July 1 and TRSA-1037 dated September 28, 1951.)

James K. Russo

SECRET

18-6-3-74


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

VIA: Air (SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

TO: Chief, WHD.

DISPATCH NO. TRSA-1037

DATE: 28 September 1951

FROM: Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operational

SPECIFIC- Humanoid Project

1. In connection with a re-examination of the security factors of this Project, a pre-arranged visit to the home of Humanoid was made by the writer. As previously reported, subject has constructed a secret dark room under the floor of his house and processes the production from the Humankind Project in this work room. It is therefore necessary that certain compromising material is retained overnight by Humanoid, and, at present, this material is kept in a wooden desk with a cheap lock. Although Humanoid's personal security appears good at this time, the possibility of an unexpected house search or a pure case of house-breaking with theft as a motive cannot be overlooked, with resultant serious security considerations.

2. It is therefore requested that headquarters consider furnishing a small wall safe with a combination lock for installation in the above-mentioned dark room. It would be possible to sink the safe into the concrete wall, and even if complete concealment were not possible, the safety of the material would be greatly enhanced. Suitable safes are not available locally, but it is known that Remington Rand markets a small strong box with a combination lock (price about $20.00) which would be ideal.

3. I would appreciate receiving your opinion in this matter inasmuch as other measures must be taken in the event a safe cannot be made available.

4. Inasmuch as Humanoid is aware of the proposed salary raise recommended by the former Chief of Station in the Quarterly Report dated August 17, 1951, information as to the status of this recommendation is requested.

![signature of Japes K. Russo]

Japes K. Russo


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

VIA: Air

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC-- Humanoid

Ref: Memorandum given writer by Zachary T. Cady in Panama

1. Humanoid advised that his mother-in-law, Sra. Dora Calderon_de CORDERO, has no relationship with the family of former President Rafael Angel CALDERON Guardia. Humanoid advised that his mother-in-law was friendly with the CALDERON family years ago, but has had no contact with any of the family or the Calderonista Party since the revolution. This woman immigrated to Costa Rica as Dora INIKEN from Europe, and as it is customary for immigrants and illegitimate children to take upon themselves the name of the President, Dora INIKEN changed her name to CALDERON. Humanoid stated that she has no political connections whatsoever ana is sympathetic to whatever administration is in power at the time. The information in the referenced memorandum was originally written by Humanoid three years ago and has no application to the present.

2. Regarding Humanoid's associates, Sr. and Sra. Miguel CORRALES, Humanoid stated that he has not seen CORRALES for over a year since CORRALES is in Guanacaste Province. It is true that CORRALES was a Figuerista during the revolution, but he is no longer sympathetic with FIGUERES.

3. Humanoid's intelligence activities are known to his wife, who has been of assistance to him in said activities on various occasions. However, Humanoid stated that his mother-in-law has no knowledge of these activities.

![Signature of Eugene T. Roddy]
Eugene T. Roddy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

16 July 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR MR. THARP:

SUBJECT: a. HUMANOID

b. Technical Surveillance in Costa Rica

HUMANOID is an American agent used as a cut-out in several San Jose operations. He was employed in the technical surveillance on the home of Juan Bosch, as one of the two monitors. He also handles the photography incident to the HUMANKIND project, which work he performs in his own quarters. (This may now be performed away from his home, but until very recently it was done at home.)

HUMANOID's PHS shows the following points which Dave Wright may be able to clarify:

(see TZP-A-365, Part I)

1. His wife is related, through her mother, to the family of CALDERON. This might be a connection with the "Calederonistas" who are alleged to be the group of Costa Ricans responsible for mysterious bombings early this year.

2. Subject's mother-in-law, who resides with him, is described as follows: "strongly inclined to Sr. Calderon GUARDIA and Leo CORTES during their respective regimes in Costa Rica, and she is now (Oct 1948) enthusiastic about the Junta Government of Jose FIGUERES. However, she takes no active part in politics."

3. Other friends and associates of his wife are: Sr. and Sra. Miguel Corrales (San Juan Tibas Costa Rica). Miguel Corrales was a radio operator and intelligence operative for Jose FIGUERES during the Costa Rican Civil War in the spring of 1948.

Jose FIGUERES and Juan BOSCH were the target personalities of the technical surveillance. FIGUERES made the statement that "one of his boys told him all about the surveillance."

From the above circumstances, it appears possible that HUMANOID'S intelligence activities are probably known to either his wife, his mother-in-law, or his friend, CORRALES, and that one of the three could have been the source through which the surveillance was blown. Would you discuss this informally with Dave Wright, please?

J. C. BONNET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

VIA: Air
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

DIS. CH NO. TRSA-972

SECRET

TO : Chief, Foreign Division T

DATE: 9 July 1951

FROM: Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC- Project Humanoid

Ref: TRSA-925

Enclosed herewith is Part II - Operational Information - of the Personal Record Questionnaire for Project Humanoid.

Encl: 1 in dupl

![signature of Eugene T. Roddy]

Eugene T. Roddy

FORM NO. 51-28 A
MAR. 1949

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

DESENSITIZED
per CSH 43-25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

Part II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION TRS/PRQ/26

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER:

1. If feasible, subject should fill in Part 1 of PRQ in his own hand.

2. Part 11 of PRQ is classified, must be filled in by the Case officer and is not to be shown to subject.

3. Headquarters will not be able to provide an operational Clearance unless it receives answers to all questions on page 1 of Part I (Items 1 to 12), and to all questions of Part 11 (Items 36 to 58).

4. In emergency these answers, keyed to Items 1 to 12 by number, and with summary of Part 11,-may-be-cabled to Headquarters, followed promptly by pouch with complete data.

5. Fully completed PRQ must be sent to Headquarters as soon as possible, two copies of Part 1 (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and one copy of Part 11.

6. Data acquired later must be sent to Headquarters in PRQ format on a continuing basis.

7. All pages of both parts will bear the PRQ number, composed of (a) Station symbol (b) PRQ (c) number assigned consecutively by the field station; e.g. PGA/PRQ/13.

36. Cryptonym Humanoid

37. How, when and where was subject first contacted or developed?

Subject was first recruited in Panama as Hydropathic in November 1948 and transferred to San José as approved Humanoid project, July 1949.

38. Could subject be turned over quickly and in a secure manner to someone else for handling?

To whom?

Subject could be turned over quickly to any approved cutout, though at present he is himself acting as a cutout between Chief of Station and 39 subagent estimate of subject's motivation

Subject motivated by his interest in intelligence work, desire to advance in the organization as a career, and its remuneration.

SECRET

-7-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

TRS /PRQ/ 26

40. With what agencies and files has subject's name been checked? When?
    Result? What else has been done to verify biographical information furnished by subject?

Recruited and checked in Panama (see TZPA-365).

41. What control exists over subject at present? How can it be increased?
    Subject can be controlled through dependence on salary, loyalty due to American heritage, past U.S. Army service, and desire for a career in this work--all are controlling factors, as well as his receipt of G.I. school benefits.

42. For what service does he think he is working? What does he think becomes of his information?

Subject is cognizant of identity of this organization.

43. Explain fully subject's past or present connection with any intelligence service.

Subject previously in U.S. Army Intelligence (see Part I, PRQ 26, No. 25)

44. What type of information has subject furnished? What type is he best qualified by education and experience to furnish? Give evaluation of information received.

Subject furnishes only information received as a cutout from subagents, Communist Party activities and Caribbean revolutionary matters.

DESENSITIZED

SECRET

-8-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

TRS/PRQ/ 26

45. If subject's duties are to be other than intelligence-gathering, explain.

None

46. Has he been given special training as an agent? Explain.

U.S. Army Intelligence training.

47. How and from whom does he obtain information?

Subject acts as cutout for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, Humankind-3 and Hugger.

48. Is it proposed to pay subject a regular salary? If so, amount per week, month, etc. Explain any other methods of payment, such as exchange commodities.

Subject receives $1,000 per month (approved TRSW-627)

49. Have any promises or commitments whatsoever (not covered elsewhere in this form) been made to subject? Explain.

No.

50. Are subject's language abilities and other characteristics such that he could pass as a native of a country or region other than his own? Explain.

DESENSITIZED

No.

51. What is subject's social standing? Aristocracy, upper middle class, lower middle class, peasantry, etc.?

Upper middle cls.

SECRET

-9-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

TRS/PRQ/26

52. What are subject's personal habits? Liquor, drugs, gambling, mistresses=
    or lovers?

Social-drinker, very moderately. No gambling or mistresses.

53. Evaluation of subject's character, reliability, security.

All noted excellent.

54. With what other foreign power would subject be most likely to
    collaborate because of his ideology, obligation, etc.? Explain.

None.

55. What special abilities, talents, or qualifications are possessed by
    subject which would conceivably be of value for other operations in
    the future?

Subject knows Morse code and can send and receive ló words per
minute at present, which rate can be quickly increased.

56. Attach samples of subject's signature and handwriting in all languages
    known to him, also a recent, dated photograph, and fingerprints.
    Photos forwarded with Part I. Handwriting and fingerprints being
    pouched separately.

57. How was information in Part I obtained?

Subject submitted information personally.

![DESENSITIZED stamp]

SECRET

-10-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

TRS/PRQ/26

58. Other miscellaneous operational data and comments.

None.





Case officer

DESENSITIZED

per C:I 43-26

SECRET

-11-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

TRSA-999

COUNTRY: Costa Rica

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

PERIOD: 31 March-1 July 1951.

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS: No change.

SALARY: Subject was raised from 750 colones per month to 1,000 colones per month, effective 1 March 1951.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES: Services of this agent continue to be extremely valuable as the principal cutout for three subagents. Subject also processes the information received, adding to it his own comments drawn from long personal acquaintance with local conditions. Subject maintains a good working relationship with subagents necessary for their continued trusted and unworried cooperation.

EVALUATION OF INFORMATION: The information procured by subject is valuable though very little is his own, but rather that of his subagents.

OTHER FACTORS: Reference is made to TRSA950 and TRSW-655 wherein subject's operations, as planned by this station and approved by headquarters, were set out. These operations have continued as outlined without incident or danger to the security of this agent or this station.

COMMENTS: Subject is devoting increasingly more time to the coverage of mail intercepts, their photo- stating, and enlarging coverage of same. The intelligence consciousness as well as the trust he has built up in Humanist-2 in reporting on top level Communist activities has taken time and has produced good results in effective coverage. In view of his importance to this station, his ability and his willingness to devote time to the work when needed, it is recommended that subject be considered for a raise in pay from 1,000-colones-to-1,500. Subject is living frugally on his present salary and his G.I. subsistance. his wife has recently had another chile which was followed by com- plications necessitating considerable hospital-

SECRET

July 51

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

TRSA-999

COMMENTS: (Con'd)

ization. This raise is recommended since it will enable subject to devote a sufficient amount of time to this work without being harried over expenses which force him to look for additional outside work. At the present exchange rate $1,500, amounts to $200 per month.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

AII

JUN 29 1961

Chief of Station, San Jose

Chief, Foreign Division 7

Operational

HERAIOED - IFRAEST

REF: TR-4-770, TR-4-643

1.  A careful study has been made by the interested offices in headquarters of the referenced documents and other correspondence pertaining to the recent exercises of the technical surveillance. The course of action suggested and discussed by you under paragraph 2 of TR-4-770 is concurred in by headquarters.

2.  The recommendations contained in TR-4-643, under paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 are hereby withdrawn.

3.  Your headquarters has a continuing interest in this entire matter and would be pleased to receive any information as it is developed which would affect either adversely or otherwise the implementation of your suggested plan.

WII. H. WHEELER, JR.

By T. J. Barrett

TJB:jr

SECRET

WII. H. WHEELER, JR.

201-164871

STC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# SECRET

VIA: Air

SPATCH NO. TRSA-950

DATE: 7 June 1951

TO : Chief, Foreign Division T

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC- Humanoid - Humanist

Ref: TRSW-643

1. Inquiry made of Humanist regarding the statements he made before the police during his interrogation reflects that he reportedly refused to testify before the police but made his deposition before the Procurador as to his part in the technical installation which implicated only the writer, and this only after he was told that Roddy had been identified. Humanist's testimony, as well as the line of questioning to which he was submitted, revealed the authorities' concern and their efforts to ascertain whether he had been engaged in or knew of any other similar installations on any other people. This he denied and maintained that the only installation was on Juan BOSCH. Humanist claims he made no mention of Humanoid, and he believes the police know nothing about him.

2. Humanist's claims also tally with the account of his confession as given writer by Manuel VENTURA, Presidential aide. Humanoid has been on the alert and has noted nothing of a suspicious nature which would indicate his activities being under observation or investigation. This matter of suspending his operations, as suggested by headquarters, was discussed by writer with Elio R. Langtry during his recent visit in San José and the following suggestions are made for headquarters' consideration:

a. Humanoid at the present time is acting as cutout and chief agent for Humanist-2, Humankind-1, and Humankind-3. There is no other agent at the present time to whom these contacts can be given. It is believed that if these subagents are allowed a 6-months vacation, they will become practically worthless when picked up again and have to work for the money they have been receiving, aside from losing interim information and developments.

b. In an effort to establish a more secure, as well as a commercial, cover for Humanoid, this office has acceded to Humanoid's desire to set up a photography and photocopy shop in the downtown area, and has encouraged him in it by allowing funds paid-for-rental of a safehouse_to_be=applied_instead as rental for his photo shop. This provides Humanoid with a good cover in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

Page 2

SECRET

KAPOK
LESCHOTTIZED

TRSA-950

a business which he is enthusiastic about and is a more natural place for Humanist-2 to make unobserved contacts. It also supplies Humanoid with a more accessible spot and efficient means to photostat mail intercepts and return them to the post office in time instead of commuting back and forth from his home in the suburbs of San José.

c. Therefore, it is suggested that Humanoid's semi-weekly contacts with Humanist-2, instead of being cancelled, be changed to a weekly letterdrop, and a live contact once a month to take care of salary payments and briefing. This letterdrop can be effected by Humanist-2 passing by the photo shop at night and dropping his messages through the slot in the door usually used for after-hours delivery of films to be developed. The film drop will be into a padlocked box, accessible only to Humanoid.

d. Regarding Humanoid's contacts with Humankind-1 and Humankind-3, these are conducted in a thoroughly safe manner. Mail extracted from postal channels by them is deposited in an envelope and placed in a post office box. It is checked daily by Humanoid, and if anything is there, it is removed, photostated, and returned by him the same day. If anyone is noticed hanging around the post office boxes, Humanoid does not go near the box and returns later when the way is clear.

e. Another factor has arisen since the last dispatch which has made this post office operation more secure in that the Director of the Post Office is now beholden to Humanoid. In a recent legal squabble noted in the press which was raised by a local Communist complaining about the government confiscating his mail from abroad, the government desired to prove that this mail was Communist propaganda which they had a right to confiscate, and the President therefore requested the Director of the Post Office to furnish samples to prove this point. With this "heat" on him, the Director made a frantic appeal to Humanoid, who was able to procure these samples for him, which satisfied the President, and for which the Director was truly grateful. Therefore, no trouble is expected from this intercept operation as long as the present personnel are being used, and ample warning will be given Humanoid in advance of any change in the present attitude.

3. Since it is believed that there is more to be lost than gained by dropping contact with these agents, the above modifications of these contacts are respectfully submitted for headquarters' consideration-and-decision.

SECRET

Eugene T. Roddy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Chief, STB

Chief, FDT

HUMANOID Project

SECRET

21 May 1951

1. In accordance with conversations held between Chief, STC and FDT and with ar. Johnston of your office, the following nodifications and additional data concerning this project are set forth.

2. On 3 March 1951 a technical surveillance was installed on the residence of Juan BOSCH, a Caribbean revolutionary leader, utilizing the services of a telephone company employee, Marcos Aurelius Salasar, through HUMANIST. HUMANOID and HUMANIST carried on the monitoring in shifts, but at separated intervals. Shortly thereafter, it was noticed that some natives living nearby were unduly interested in the activities of the monitorin; house, and, at the same tine, mysterious bo explosions Here occurring in San Jose. HUMANIST learned that the police had received a report that unicnown persons were spying on the airfield, which adjoined the monitoring post, and perhaps were manufacturing the bombs. The sur- veillance was discontinued and the equipment moved on 20 March.

3. It was deemed necessary to brief Salazar on a possible investi- gation and provide him with a suitable cover story. It is believed that Salazar became frightened, went to the police, and implicated HUMANIST, who was subsequently arrested. After three days, HUMANIST confessed and implicated the chief of station.

4. The chief of station, through his strong personal connections with the Vice President and other high officials, was able to convince the President this activity was not detrimental to the interests of Costa Rica and the whole affair was quashed. HUMANIST was released from jail and the chief of station continues to enjoy cordial and amicable relations with the Costa Rican officials concerned.

5. It is planned that the chief of station will be transferred in the near future, at which time HUMANIST will be terminated on the pretext that all operations are being discontinued. The only other current operation which HUMANIST knows anything about is HUMANIST-2, whom he was instrumental in recruiting in July 1949. He has had nothin; to do with HUMANIST-2 since then and has never known who handles him or even if he is in contact with our station at the present time. It is believed that HUMANOID's true identity is unknown to him, and so far as he knows, HUMANOID was only helping on the one job, the technical surveillance.

SECRET

201-161881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SLENLE

-2-

6. Although no evidence has been received from any source which would indicato HUMANOID han bean compromised, the chief of station has beam instad, as a precautionary noarse, to placu MANOID on an imctive status for approximately six months. MUACD's salary will contime curing this period, which is desiged to perait further study and observation of all ratifications of this compromise as woll 03 additioml strengthening of HRANOID's local cover. MELALOID'S responsibilities d'h regard to IGGER, G-2, and RAID wונו be transferred to another Anerican cutout (possibly HADUG) or temporarily suspended, et the discretion of the station chiof.

7. For discussion with the Chief, M and fr. Jonston, it is recommended that the ADID project be armcoved as attached hereto, with the understandin, that its roactivation will be dependent upon favorable results of the ninth period of cocervative


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

STC/OCO

Chief, FOT

HUMANOID

23 February 1951

The following answers are keyed to your questionnaire dated
5 February 1951 concerning HUMANOID:

a. Subject is an active agent.

b. He is used substantially the same as when clearance was issued.

c. Subject has not been used in connection with projects other than originally contemplated.

d. All information on subject's personal and operational security has been submitted.

e. The operation has been considered excellent. The only test of HUMANOID's security has been the test of evaluating his information, and the evaluation of his reliability by the Chief of Station.

f. There have been no operational or other changes in the status of this agent which have affected our evaluation of this agent.

CH. H. THEILE, JR.

SECRET

201-168871


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# SECRET

## OPERATIONAL REVIEW

TRSA-860

COUNTRY: Costa Rica

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

PERIOD: 1 October-31 December 1950.

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS: No Change.

SALARY: $750 per month.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES: Services of this agent are extremely valuable to this station. Aside from cutout services in contacting subagents, he has been used on other miscellaneous investigations suitable to his capacity and has given freely of his time and effort

EVALUATION OF INFORMATION: The information furnished continues to be of great value to this station.

OTHER FACTORS: No change.

COMMENTS: As previously reported subject's plans to transfer to Panama have changed, and he is staying in Costa Rica to finish his schooling. Due to subject's services and the time he devotes in performing them, as well as plans at this station for making greater demands on his time, it is planned to recommend that subject's salary be increased from $750 to $1,000 per month.

SECRET 23 Feb. 51

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

CHIEF, STAFF "B"

CHIEF, FOT

Project Outline - HUMANOID

SECRET

19 February 1951

1. To complete the attached field project outline, the following biographical information is submitted as required by paragraph 4:

HUMANOID was born in 1922 in DeKalb, Illinois, USA, where he attended high school from which he graduated in 1940. Subject joined the United States Air Force in which he had five years experience in general Air Force intelligence work. Subject is presently living in San Jose, Costa Rica, where he has been attending school.

2. This project dates from June 194) in Costa Rica but subject was an agent of our Panama station for about six months prior to his departure for Costa Rica.

3. Sabject's reliability is considered excellent and his operational services are also considered excellent. The value of this project, including the sub-agents, is considered to be of great value to our Costa Rican mission.

4. HUMANOID, in addition to being a principal agent, is caployed as a cut-out for HUWANIST-2, HUGGER, and HUMANKIND. Attached arc field project cutlines for HUMANIST-2 and HMANKIND, which includes HANKIND-1 and -3. Technically, HUMANIST-2, HULIKID-1 and -3 are sub-agents and therefore not required to have field project outlines submitted. The original development, however, of these agents was on an individual project basis, and the cut-out HERMANOID was later developed.

5. In lieu of a field project outline for HUGGER, the following is submitted:

HUGGER is a Costa Rican by birth. She is private secretary in the nain office of the 'mited Fruit Company in San Jose, and is a secret agent of Guardia Civil of Costa Rica.

HUGGER has the objective and task of developing contacts anong Vanguardia Popular nenbers, particularly in the women's front.

While HUGGER's production is not creat, it is valuable. Her pay is approximately $11.00 a nonth.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

6. Since the Chief of Station has only direct contact with HUMANOID and not with the sub-agents, the project is considered as one project, the HUMANOID Project. For accountin, purposes, however, the sub-agents are boing handled as individual agents although under the control of the cut-out HUMANOID.

7. HUMANOID's salary if $28.00 a month and operating expenses are about 366.00 a month.

WA. H. WHEELER, Ji

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET

TO: Chief, FDT

FRCM: STC/CC0

SUBJECT: HUMANOID

Ray

5 February 1951

1.  STC records reflect that subject ves approved for operational use under Operational Clearance # 63 dated 19. July 1949

2.  The clearance ras based upon information available at that tire. It is desired to raintain a continuing or periodic revier of the security status of this person and the projects with which he has been or may be associated.

3.  Your corrents on the following points vould ce appreciated. In the event field correspondence is necessary to obtain this information please coordinate with STC/OCo.

a. Is subject still in an operational status? If not please indicate disposition.

b. Is subject being used in substantially the same manner as when clearance ras issued? If not please explain.

c. Fas subject been used in connection with projects other than originally centerplated?

d. Pas any information been reported affecting subject's personal or operatioral security status?

e. Has the operation, including security tests of the agent, been satisfactory?

f. Fas any information been developed in connection with this or ether operations or have changes in existing conditions occurred which would affect your original evaluation of this agent?

SECRET

201-16557)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

# SECRET

FORM NO.
DEC. 1947 35-5

PAGE NO.

FROM: SAN JOSE ROUTINE

TO: SPECIAL OPERATIONS 7 DEC 50

ACTION: FDT (1-2-3) IN 12657

INFORMATION: ADSO (4-5) , STA (6), STB (7), STC (8), IID (9), S/C (10-11-12)

*Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (I) 60A AR-380-5*

SANJ 678

TO: WASHF CITE: SANJ

RE: TRSA 756

HUMANOID PLANNING PERMANENT TRANSFER TO ΡΑΝΑΜΑ 1 FEBRUARY
REQUEST HQS CONSIDER APPROVAL OF HUMBUG BY 1 JANUARY 1951 TO PERMIT
SUFFICIENT OVERLAP FOR ORIENTATION IN DUTIES AND CONTACTS.

TOR: 1611Z 7 DEC 50

# SECRET

201-165881

Copy No. 1

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

TRSA-745

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica

PERIOD: 1 July to 30 Sept 1950.

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS: As set forth in TRSA-564.

SALARY: $750.per month.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES: No change.

EVALUATION OF INFORMATION: No. change.

OTHER FACTORS: Subject is contact personally by Station Chief.

COMMENT: Subject is contemplating moving to Panama approximately in April 1951, where he hopes to continue his schooling and work for this organization. He has had previous experience and contacts in Panama and can be highly recommended for similar work there. A substitution for subject has been considered and is being processed.

SECRET

30 Dept. 50
201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# SECRET

TRSA-646

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1 April to 30 June 1950.

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS: Objectives, tasks, and targets are set forth in detail in THSA-554.

SALARY: $750 per month.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES: Services have been of considerable value to operations. The agents which he handles are the most productive of those now being used by this station, and his manegement of these informants has been excellent, from both an information and a security stendpoint.

EVALUATION OF INFORMATION: The information provided by the agents which subject handles, a great part of which is owing to his own industry and devotion in their development, is easily the most valuable produced by this station.

OTHER FACTORS: No comment.

COMMENTS: No changes are contemplated in subject's status. He is contemplating a move to Argentina some time within the next two years and hopes to continue his present employment in that country, and if possible to make a career of this business in any capacity he can obtein. His integrity, discretion, and industry cannot be too highly commended and we feel that he is eminently suited for staff or cover employment in any capacity deemed comcensurate with his intellectual and other abilities.

SECRET

30 June 50

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

AIR

SECRET

Chief of Station, San Jose

Chief, Foreiga Division T

Operational Matters
Finance

REF: TDB-464
TDB-467

1.  A review of the financial records on Tamacaida shows that salary and expenses in the amount of $604.00 were charged to this allotment during the first six months of the current fiscal year. This reflects a rate of disbursements slightly in excess of that anticipated in the annual allotment of $1500.

2.  Ordinarily it would not be necessary to change the allotment at this time but the pay increase for Haurch's, effective 1 April 1950, will definitely increase the total disbursements for the fiscal year to a figure in excess of the $1500.

3.  In view of this situation the allotment for Tamacaida for the 1949-1950 fiscal year is being increased by the sum of $500. The total allotment previously set at $1500 is therefore increased to $2000.

4.  Taking this action at this time will obviate the necessity of making a last minute adjustment at the end of the fiscal year.

WLD:jr

WM. M. WHEELER, JR.
BY W.L.DEAN

21 April 50
201-168877

STB

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# SECRET

TRSA-588

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

CRYPTCHYM: Humanoid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1 January to 31 March 1950.

OBJECTIVES AND TA3K3: Objectives, tasks, and targets are set forth in detail in TRSA-564.

SALARY: $500 per month during the quarter under consideration. $750 per month effective 1 April 1950.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES: Services have been of considerable value to operations. The agents which he handles are the most productive of those now being used by this station, and his management of these informents has been excellent, from both an information and a security standpoint.

EVALUATION OF INFORMATION: The information provided by the agents whom subject handles, a great part of which is owing to his own industry and devotion in their development, is easily the most valuable produced by this station.

OTEER FACTORS: No comment.

COMMENTS: No changes are contemplated in subject's status.

SECRET

31 March 50

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

VIA: Air

SECRET

TO: Chief, Foreign Division T DATE: 31 March 1950

FROM: Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC: Project Humanoid

Ref: TRSW-447

1.  In accordance with verbal agreement made by the Chief of Station in Washington and formalized in referenced memorandum, the monthly salary paid to Humanoid will be increased from the present $500 to $750.00 effective 1 April 1950.

2.  A revised "Field Project Outline" applicable to Project Humanoid is submitted herewith, in accordance with GOI No. 2.

3.  Possible existing confusion with regard to our charging of expenses of Project Humanoid ani allied projects for which Humanoid supplies cutout services will be clarified in the near future as revised "Field Project Cutlines" applicable to these latter projects are prepared and forwarded.

4.  The attached "Field Project Outline" supercedes TRSA-347.

Elmer C. Mercer

Encl: 1

Project running over allotted by 750°°

Increase in Humanoid Sor Mgmt= 120°°

270°°

Increase allotment 300°°

IID COPY 31 march 50

SECRET 201-168381

18-6-14-60

FORM NO. 51-28 A
MAR. 1949


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

TRS-A-506

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1 October to 31 December 1949.

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS

This agent provides cutout services in connection with the penetrations of Vanguardia Popular and also for the postel intercept project. In connection with the latter he does all of the technical reproduction work required. He also reports miscellaneous information which he obtains from his school and business contacts. Project dates from June 1949.

SALARY

$500 per month. Increased from $400 November 1949.

EVALUATION OF SERVICES

Services have been of considerable value to operations. The agents which he handles are the most productive of those now being used by this station, and his management of these informants has been good, from both an information and a security standpoint.

EVALUATION OF INFORMATION

The information provided by the informants of the subject has been valuable operationally and is considered generally reliable.

OTHER FACTORS

Contacts with the subject are made directly. He is now attempting to obtain a secure place in which to meet HUMANIST-2. Other informants handled by this agent are HUGGER, HUMANKIND-1, and HULMANKIND-3.

COMMENTS

No changes are contemplated in the manner of handling this agent.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air

DISPATCH NO. TRSA-468

CONFIDENTIAL

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T

DATE: 1 November 1949

FROM : Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Project Humanoid

SPECIFIC. Amendment to Contract

1. Effective 1 November 1949 the salary of the individual designated as Humancid was increased $100.00 to a total of $500 per month. This action was taken in consideration of excellent services, not in time, but in quality, in the management and direction of Projects Humankind, Humanist-2, and Hugger.

![signature of Elmer C. Mercer]
Elmer C. Mercer

REGISTRY COPY

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# OPERATIONAL REVIEW

TRS-A-449

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1 July to 30 September 1949

OBJECTIVES AND
TASKS:

(1) Cutout services.
(2) Communist penetration of local labor organizations and/or student groups.
(3) Discretionary reporting and operational pursuit of any and all intelligence information coming his way by reason of his normal daily activities.

SALARY:

$400 per month.

EVALUATION OF
SERVICES:

(1) As Humankind cutout: Subject has continued to handle this delicate and time-consuming assignment in a completely satisfactory manner.
As Hugger outout: Although Hugger still does not produce as we would like, it is not the fault of subject, who has devoted time and effort to his education and direction.
(2) Rather than employment or investigation of prospective informents developed by subject with regard to these objectives, we have assigned subject the handling and direction of Humanist-2. We have every reason to believe that he will do this satisfactorily, and based on the high-level information which we receive through this source, subject will be able to proceed more intelligently to the coverage of the topics assigned.
(3) Subject is proceeding slowly as directed by us, and attempting first of all to integrate the three projects with which he is charged.

EVALUATION OF
INFORMATION:

Directly, subject has yet provided little information. That stemming from his projects, however, is among the most useful and valuable which we obtain.

OTHER FACTORS:

None.

COMMENTS:

Subject is_considered to be the most valuable employee we have at the present time from the point of view of actual present usefulness, as well as that of interest, industry, and comprehension of objectives.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

TNS-A-443

29 September 1949

Communist Organisers

REFERENCE: ITS-655, WASH 5590, TPS-W-377

![signature]

1.  Every effort is being made to confirm with details - or deny - the information contained in TRS-655. The source of that report, as well as Hubbub, who is a personal friend of the original informant, have both been attempting for some time to extract more information from him. In addition, transfer of Humanist-2 to the management of Humanoid, which occurred this week, has provided us with an additional avenue of confirmation and Humanoid is making the matter his No. 1 priority job.

2.  We expect to be able to cable our opinion of the truth or falsity of the original information within two weeks time, and if the story than appears to have some basis in fact, all our resources will be exploited for further details.

Original in Gan, Opera

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air Pouch
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. TRS-A-429

CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 13 September 1949

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL Operations

SPECIFIC- Specific Operational Changes

REFERENCE: TRS-A-396, TRS-A-385

1. Certain rearrangements involving three current projects of this office are being made in order to produce greater effectiveness and security. The projects involved are Humanoid, Humanist and Humankind.

2. The owner of the separate office used by Humanoid to process the material received through Project Humankind has requested that the space be vacated by 15 September 1949. His reasons are purely business and have nothing to do with our operetions. On that date, therefore, our effects will be moved to a new locale, which is incidentally more desirable from the point of view of convenience and security. The new "safe-house" will cost $400.00 per month, an increase of $275.00 over that paid for the former office, and is to be charged to Project Humankind effective 15 September 1949.

3. To offset this increased cost but principally to provide adequate exploitation of Humanist-2, that individual will be turned over to Humanoid for direct handling prior to 1 October 1949. Humanist-l, whose sole function has been to contact Humanist-2 and who has received a salary of $250.00 per month, will be eliminated on 1 October 1949. This arrangement has been carefully planned and discussed with all concerned and can be made without security risk. It will provide intelligent, American control of our potentially most valuable agent, and eliminate the present cumbersome communication and contact arrangement.

4. No change will be made in present symbol designations.

DESENSITIZED
per SH 43-25

CLASSIFICATION

Elmer C. Mercer

201-168771


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air Pouch

DISPATCH NO. TRS-A-403

KAPOK

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 9 August 1949

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC Operational Data, Project Humanoid

REFERENCE: TRS-A-347

The following operational data is forwarded in accordance with Field Memorandum No. 6 of September, 1947:

1. Humanoid.

2. Cutout services with a large amount of personal discretion permitted.

3. Subject is considered to be extremely reliable and intelligent, which, combined with his past experience, qualify him for a wide range of assignments.

4. San José, Costa Rica.

5. No.

6. He would, but at present is prevented from travelling by personal arrangements which it would be inconvenient for him to change.

7. All personnel are paid by us: Humankind-1, $100.00; Humankind-3, $100.00; Hugger, $100.00 (monthly).

8. No.

9. Yes.

10. Yes. Subject is charged with principal direction of Project Humankind and Project Hugger. Aside from this, he is charged with investigation and recruiting of information personnel as suggested by himself in accordance with his opportunities, but only after consultation with us.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

Page 2                                                                                                                                9 August 1949

11.  By direct contact in a "safe house".

12.  Material emanating from Project Humankind through Subject is photographic. Material from Project Hugger and from Subject himself is written.

13.  Approximately 40%.

14.  Written. Copy was forwarded as TRS-A-364.

15.  The subject matter with which Subject is concerned under the arrangements noted under No. 10 above is that of communist activity in student and labor groups.

16.  He works only as directed by us, but frequently suggests matters for his own consideration.

17.  Subject is paid in colones at the rate of $400 per month.

18.  After six months employment, approximately December, 1949, we expect to raise his salary to $500 per month.

19.  Contact expenses in connection with Projects Hugger and Humankind are paid subject, and average $200 per month. Maintenance expenses and rent in connection with the "safe house" where he does his work average $125.00 per month.

20.  We would, were such a contingency to occur. To date it has not.

21.  (a) Superior (b) Superior

22. Semi-covert because of his nationality.

23. (A) High level.

![Elmer C. Mercer signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

No. 68

TO: Chief, FBT (Att. Mrs. Geary)

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

Operational Clearance is hereby granted for the use of HUMANOID.

Limitations: As defined in TRS-A-376.


John C. Bornet
Acting Operational Clearence Officer
for Assistant Director, Special Operations

Date 7/19/49

Copy 1 of 2 copies.

201-168881

19 July 19

21 July

@ I B notice attached

SECRET Feed Wire feed
Wsh-7509 ret 8622 (see nerminar file)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

Operationa). Clearance Officer, 050

14 July 1949

Chief, FBT

Financia

1.  It is requested that provisional operational clearance be granted for the use of humansia.

2.  It is further requested that a covert investigation be made on suh joot.

RGspbs

SECRET

JRS-A-347

201-168871


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# SECRET TRS-A-376

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

CRYPTONYM: Humanoid

COUNTRY: Costa Rica PERIOD: 1-30 June 1949

OBJECTIVES AND
TASKS:

(1).- Cutout services.

(2).- Communist penetration of local labor organizations and/or student groups.

(3).- Discretionary reporting and operational pursuit of any and all intelligence information coming his way by reason of his normal daily activities.

SALARY:

($)400 per month. (approx. $240 per qtr.)

EVALUATION OF
SERVICES:

(1). As Humankind cutout: Subject has proven exceptionally successful in the face of some unusual difficulties. He has, however, developed the contacts necessary under this heading on a personal friendly basis to the point where all are lending their enthusiastic cooperation.

As Hugger cutout: For the first time in the history of his employment with us, Hugger is submitting well-organized reports and beginning to appreciate our needs. His progress is directly attributable to the time and effort devoted to direction by Humanoid.

(2). Subject has been fully occupied during the short period covered herein and has made no progress with respect to this assignment.

(3). Subject has cultivated three potential sources in fields of probable interest to us. After further local investigation of their possibilities, headquarters will be consulted.

EVALUATION OF
INFORMATION:

Directly, subject has provided no information. That stemming from the projects he is now super- vising, however, is accurate and always valuable.

OTHER FACTORS:

None.

COMMENTS:

In the immediate future, subject's cutout activities should settle into more or less of a routine, releasing his energies for development of other assignments.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air Pouch

![air or sea pouch]

![DEFERRED]IZED

CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 13 June 1949

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Operations

SPECIFIC: Project Humanoid

Reference: TRS-A-347

1. A copy of the contract signed by the individual principally concerned in subject project is attached. The signed original is retained in our files.

2. Pertinent operational data in accordance with Field Memorandum No. 6 dated 22 September 1947 will be forwarded when the operational routine has been established in more or less its final form and we are better able to judge the efficiency and value of the project.

![signature]

Elmer C. Mercer

Encl:
Copy of contract

FORM NO. 51-20
APR 1947

![DEFERRED]IZED 7

CLASSIFICATION

13 June 49
201-168881
201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

TRS-A-369

22 June 1949

2. Informant Hugger, formerly reporting through subject, has been transferred to the control of Humanoid (see TRS-A-347)

![DESENSITIZED stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

USAF Personal History and security checks.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air

DISPATCH NO. TRS-A-251

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 5 January 1949

FROM : Chief of Station, San José, Costa Rica

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Operations

SPECIFIC. Project Hydropathic

Reference: TZP-A-365; TZP-W-411

1. This station intends to make the fullest possible use of Hydropathic, but it is not considered feasible to proceed with a formal request for project authorization until he has established himself in this area and we have made his acquaintance. Tentatively it is planned to use him in a cut-out capacity, meeting informants which we will provide, for an orientation period of indefinite duration. In this period it will be possible to evaluate Subject's capacity to play an integrated part in our operational set-up, and approval for our plans in this respect will then be requested.

2. Hydropathic will be contacted upon arrival and initial arrangements for his cut-out services forwarded to headquarters.

Elmer C. Mercer

23-23
cc - Panama City

FORM NO. 51-28
APR 1947

CS COPY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

DESENSITIZED

FX CEX 43-23

12017 168/881

TRS A 251

CATE 5 JAN 49


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: Air

DISPATCH NO. TRS-A-250

TO: Chief of Station, Panama City

DATE: 5 January 1949

FROM: Chief of Station, San José

SUBJECT: GENERAL - Operations

SPECIFIC: Project Hydropathic

Reference: TZP-A-365, Part I

The attached document, having served its purpose, is returned to your station.

Your cooperation in the matter is greatly appreciated.

Elmer J. Mercer

23-23

1 Encl. - TZPA-365 11 Oct 48 Filed in Chronological

00 - Washington

REGISTRY COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: AIR

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. TZP-A-402

TO : Acting Chief, FBT DATE: 31 December 1948.

FROM : Chief of Station, Panama City, Panama.

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Operations

SPECIFIC- HYDROPATHIC

Ref: TZP-17-411

1.  HYDROPATHIC is not a project (Memo to all Latin American Stations, dtd. 9 June 1947). It is a simple recruitment of an individual agent to be controlled exclusively by the San José Station. TZP-A-355 Part II suggested a manner in which he might establish contact with HYDROCYST I. Since HYDROCYST I is leaving Costa Rica temporarily, this is no longer a consideration.

2.  All documents in our files have been forwarded to San José. This station has only contacted Subject twice and has told him nothing about our organization or any possibilities of any full time positions. If we can assist by arranging a contact between HYDROPATHIC and San José or in any other manner, we will be glad to do so. In the meantime, we will take no further action unless instructed to do so by the Home Office.

Grover J. Karing.

Distribution:

Wash (2)

Sanj (1)

Files (1)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)