# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CL BY: 611637
CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
DECL DIE X1
DRV FRAE: COV 2-87

21 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

John Pereira @ DCI
Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
Lee Strickland @ DA
Linda Cipriani@ DCI

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer

OFFICE:

CSI/HRG

SUBJECT:

ARRB meeting 17 November - Results

REFERENCE:

1.  Reconsideration of the release of Warrenton as CIA Records Center:

The Board accepted the Agency's request for reconsideration; postponed until 2017.

2.  CIA use of State Cover:

The Board did not find the Agency's evidence persuasive; released.

This determination affects 16 documents (3 duplicates) that were pending Board action. Future documents will be impacted by this decision. Copies of the documents have been sent to DO and OGC for reconsideration/appeal review.

3.  Release date of Nosenko NBR records:

The Board moved the release date from 2017 to 2010 giving the Agency the right to review and appeal at that time.

4.  Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) Financial Records:

The Board accepted the ARRB staff's recommendation (concurred in by CIA) that only "General Statement for Month" records for January 1960 and to January 1995 be processed as Assassination Records, and that the approximately 6,000 remaining pages of financial records be declared to have "no believed relevance (NBR)" to the JFK assassination.

5.  Ramparts Damage Assessment Document:

The Board accepted the ARRB staff's recommendation (concurred in by CIA) that the paragraphs on the one relevant

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

organization be processed as a assassination record, and that the remainder of the CIA *Ramparts* Memorandum be declared NBR. The memorandum discusses the truth or fallacy of the allegations in *Ramparts* the Agency used non-governmental organizations for support and funding of worldwide anti-Communist operations. Over one hundred organizations are mentioned in the *Ramparts* article. The relevant organization is the International Rescue Committee; the IRC aided Oswald on his return to the US.

6. Book Cables Dissemination Lists:

The Board accepted the Agency's request that book cable dissemination list be protected in full even if they contain stations that are releasable.

7. Document #: 104-10072-10232:

The Board rejected the Agency's request to protect the full crypt (LINLUCK). The document has been sent to the DO for reconsideration/appeal review.

8. Other Documents:

The Board accepted the Agency's and ARRB staff's recommendations on 204 additional documents.

Reconsideration and Appeals:

If the Agency wishes to ask the Board to reconsider a decision or plans to appeal to the President, the ARRB staff has requested that it be notified prior to the letter to the Agency informing the DCI of the Board's decision. We expect the letter on or around Dec. 1st; the Board's determinations will also be published in the Federal Register on that date. As mandated by the White House, the Agency has seven days after notification to appeal a JFK Board decision to the President.

CC:

Eileen Wukitch@ DO
Kathryn Dyer @ DCI
Becky Dyer @ DA

Sent on 21 November 1997 at 05:04:45 PM

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)