# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Chief, Tack Force/W
Chief of Station, JAVE

Operational/GYROSE
FAL/Vertice Tres

CZA-205
2 April 1932

1. On 31 March 1962 Alberto Mariano Parojon Cerconas, A 12895479, born 11 December 1933, a bank employco, Mical address: [4901 NW 16th Ave], no telephono, vas interviewed.

2. Source said he was a member of EAC, FAL and Vortice Tres ("The Third Position").

3. Source said that EAC (Salvar a Cuba) vas destroyed by Cuban security forcos.

4. Source said that FAL (Fuerza Anti-Comunista de Liberacion) is voll organized, the best organized boing the forcca in Pinar Col Rio Province. He said that FAL has some arms and communition, and is an action type group, conspiring to provoke an uprising and cutting off cximunications, Cource was reluctant to news any FAL contact, but finally named (Rona Parejon Porez) as a contact men. He said that he could arrengo bona Fides with Parojon, and ho was told that perhaps in the future cazzone would call upon him and introduce themselves as "cnicos de Ecberto" and discuss th is in further detail. Es agreed. No said that some months ago tho 'FAL sont out (microfilmed maps sojowing uitas for landing arms and also ita propooda caching sites, but ho did not know to whom this informa- tion vas passed.

5. Source said that he was also associated with Vortice Tros, and described this organization as being composed of intellectuals and professionals. Its mission is not cleer boccuso an he described it one of the functions is to explain the horrors of the Comunist system to the masses by the adoption of a third position. Vortico is also intorestod in more subtle approaches, such as industrial slowdoms and sabotage. The emphasis, however, appears to be on propaganda and he said Vortice is on the point of obtaining a radio plant. lo vas coked if this was a "pirato radio", but he replica no, that it would remain on the air so that it could be hoard. When asked about the Dring problems, ho said he was told by an enginoor who is working on this project that it was a "Dolta Bystom Radio" and they would not have to be afraid of Wing. (This does not make senco, but it was all the source know on this subject.)

6. Bource said that Vortice noods supplies, such as Hinox cameras; but he would not or could not give the name of a Vortice contact in Kabana.

He said there/

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reprodube

31BR

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CCA - 105
page 2

He said there is a Vertice contact in Miami, Cerardo (lnu) and although he did not know the lastname or address of Cerardo, he was going to try and locate him. He was again reminded of the "amigos" who would call on him for this information.

7. Source said that before he left Cuba he met with [Pecio Carrillo], 06.08 the niece of Justo Cerrillo. She told him that Justo sent in a message saying "Be careful with Flavio, [Pecio] asked the source to get in touch with [Justo] and tell him that if he had derogatory information on Flavio he should send the details. She thought [Justo]'s message was confusing. Source said that "Flavio" is the var name for Evolio Duque who also uses "Frank" and "Manolito." Source said that it is believed that the name Evelio Duque is in itself a war name.

8. Source identified Arturo Colri, an employee of the National Bank, Agonota 1-10-140, Linca y O Vedado, Habana, as a self-admitted member of G-2. Arturo is about 32 years old, white, stocky (about 150 pounds), 5'8" tall, white, black hair and has a large mustache. He was formerly the handyman at the bank, but because of his G-2 position he is now a man of prestige and catered to by all.

Folsom L. Rayrock

---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)