# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

C Station, [Le City

Chief, stern Her Divis

Operati. Mesute w/ ACETONE-1

Reference: MEXICO City 23232

1. In accordance with a policy decision to keep EKHERALO contact with U.. business representatives discreet, a small luncheon was held in lies of the customary formal briefings in the Headquarters but hil ng

KDACIONAL IDENTITY I, David C HIGBY and Floyd N. AIMONET attent the luncheon which was characterized by cordiality and candor.

KDACIONEI until the conclusion of the meeting to raise his current favorite subject, that of countering the leftist propaganda contained in SIEMFF. Fortunately, HIGOBY was forewarned and effectively turned and the thrust of the effort upon[CETONG-B shoulders, without ending in. IDENTITY impressed IMGBY with his interest, intelligence and sincerity. He offered tas services of "to this" on our behalf but was convinced by HIGBY that the best way to approach the problem was through use of individual members, rather than through IDENTITY 2 as an organization.

2. Discussions were held concerning Mexican affairs as well as Hemispheric trends. In the former category, our guests were most disturbed about the nationalization process in Mexico and enumerated

(continued)

Attachment:

IDENTITIES (USC)

Distribution:

3 COS, Mexico City (W/Att. USC)

![document showing cross reference, dispatch symbol, distribution, and name of writer]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMW-19453
22

the latest cases with some alarm. [KDACTOR-1 reported his prediction that President ECHEVERRIA would effectively nationalize most private investment in Mexico before the end of his term.

3. The meeting was judged effective and afforded HICUT the opportunity to lay the ground work for his future relations with IDENTITY members, while satisfying the guests' need for reassurances that our goals were parallel. They appeared happy with the conversations despite the informality.

Floyd H. ABBOT

![tree]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

UNDER EPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: HMMW-10453

IDENTITY #1 - George Blake, V.P. of American Chamber of Commerce

IDENTITY #2 - American Chamber of Commerce Mexico

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)