# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF 161827Z DIRECTOR 125981

CONF: SA/0070 INFO: FILE EUR 8, IP/DMS, LA&OLC, 0004, 000/100, 000/5RO

TO: LISBON INFO LONDON MEXICO CITY. Y

RYBAT UNINTEL RNVIEW Y

1. U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS WHO CURRENTLY INVESTIGATING CIRCUMSTANCES

SURROUNDING ASSASSINATIONS OF PRESIDENT KENNEDY AND DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING HAS TOLD. STATE THAT THEY INTEND TO PURSUE LEADS IN PORTUGAL, UK AND MEXICO RELATING TO JAMES EARL RAY, CURRENTLY SERVING TIME FOR KING, MURDER. THEY BASING THIS INTEREST ON INFORMATION THAT RAY WAS IN LISBON BRIEFLY IN MAY 1968, SHORTLY BEFORE HIS APPREHENSION IN LONDON IN JUNE 1968. 4

2. MR. G. ROBERT BLAKEY, CHIEF COUNSEL AND STAFF DIRECTOR OF COMMITTEE SAYS SELECT COMMITTEE TOLD STATE THAT HE WANTS TO ESTABLISH "CORDIAL RELATIONSHIP" WITH APPROPRIATE PORTUGUESE NATIONAL POLICE AND HOPES TO ENLIST THEIR ASSISTANCE INCLUDING ACCESS TO THEIR FILES AND IN LOCATING AND INTERVIEWING POTENTIAL WITNESSES.4

3. DEPARTMENT HAS SOLICITED EMBASSY SUGGESTIONS AS TO HOW BLAKEY SHOULD PROCEED. 4

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

DO NOT REPRODUCE
RETURN TO CIA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE CO! ACP TOG TPE MRO DCI

0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

- SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE-TIME GROUP CITE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

STAFF DIRECTOR

CONF: INFO: FILE

125981

INDEX DISSEM BY:

NO INDEX

RETURN TO PER

4. WISH TO CALL ABOVE TO ADDRESSEES' ATTENTION IN EVENT #

STATIONS ARE SOLICITED FOR ADVICE OR ASSISTANCE. RTACTION IS
COOPERATING FULLY WITH BLAKEY AND COMMITTEE INCLUDING ALLOWING
THEM ACCESS TO DIRECTORATE RECORDS, AFTER SUITABLE SANITIZATION
FOR SOURCES AND METHODS. HOWEVER, BELIEVE COMMITTEE'S EFFORTS
TO INTERVIEW POLICE AND WITNESSES AND RESULTING USEFUL INFORMATION
OBTAINED, IF ANY, IS LARGELY OVERT FUNCTION WHICH CAN BEST BE.
HANDLED BY LEGATTS OR OTHERS WHO WOULD ALSO BE IN A POSITION TO
BE PUBLICLY QUOTED OR IDENTIFIED IF NECESSARY. 4

5. STATIONS EXPECTED TO PROVIDE EMBASSY BEST ADVICE IF
   SOLICITED BUT REQUESTED TO AVOID INVOLVING STATION OFFICERS IN
   NEGOTIATIONS EVEN IN THEIR COVER CAPACITIES. IF CIRCUMSTANCES
   SUCH THAT THIS UNAVOIDABLE, PLEASE ADVISE HQS BY CABLE SO THAT
   THE MATTER CAN BE APPROPRIATELY HANDLED WITH BLAKEY AND
   DEPARTMENT. 그

ORIG: O/SA/DO/O [SOVERN}; COORD: OLC ECUMMINS, DC/LA CLAUDER,
MGSB HAWKINS JAMES
C/LA/DX/EUR/BC {STENSON), C/EUR/IB BERGER: AUTH:

SA/DO/O KATROSH; REL: DC/EUR {ESTES}.J

DATE: 14 NOVEMBER 1977

ORIG: MASOVERN

UNIT: O/SA/DO/8

EXT: 1542


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)