104-10333-10002

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# AGENDA

## Meeting with JFK ARRB Staff

Monday, 17 March 1997
2C06 IP Building
1:00 p.m.

1. Records Management Briefing

   Becky Rant, DA/IRO
   Carol Johnson, DA/IMO

2. Cable Process

   John Rovito, Agency Network Mgt. Center, OIT

3. Questions & Answers


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

John -

Thank you for agreeing to participate in briefing the JFK Assassination Records Review Board (ARRB) to be held on Monday, 17 March, at 2:00 p.m., in (2C06 IP Bldg.) I regret the short notice. As we discussed, the ARRB has asked for information relating to the creation, transmission, and dissemination of cables and your name instantly came to mind. Their specific questions are:

1- Can you describe the cable process in place in the Agency during the

1960-1964 time period?

Prior to 1962 messages were delivered to the DPD (Development Products Division) at 1717 H Street or to the Communications Center at "L" Street. In addition there also was a Q building that received special traffic.

After 1962 messages came into the CIA Headquarters and were processed in different areas depending on the types of traffic.

Imagery traffic would be sent to to a specific floor for the imagery personnel. Intercept and Special Programs would either be passed to a Special Sections Area of the Communications Center or to the Cable Secretariat.

2- How did cables come in?

Messages came in from the field via the Brandy Station State Channels or military channels.

3- How were they decrypted?

Messages were deciphered using a OTT (One Time Tape) or a OTP (One Time Pad) process.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

# SECRET

4- What happened from the time a cable was sent from a field site until it arrived on a desk at Headquarters?

Messages sent from a field site would be passed to a communicator, encrypted and transmitted via High Frequency Radio. The message received from Brandy and relayed to headquarters and then it was decrypted.

The analyst of the Cable Secretariat would then read the message and match what they read against customer requirements. They then would have a typist type the dissemination on the message. The message then would be picked up from the message center by the various staffs and or divisions.

5- How were cables disseminated?
See item four.

Please let me or Becky Rant, DA/IRO, know if you have any other questions or concerns prior to the briefing.

CC: Becky L. Rant
Andréa E. Boyce
Sent on 13 March 1997 at 03:17:34 PM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Administrative-Internal Use Only

# Directorate of Administration

Briefing for the
JFK Assassination Records Review
Board Staff

on
Records Management in the DA

17 March 1997

Carol M. Johnson
DA Information Management Officer
2B17 IP Bldg.
703-613-1205 Secure 31205

Becky Rant
DA Information Review Officer
2B17 IP Bldg.
703-613-1204 Secure 31204

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Directorate of Administration

## TOPICS

*   CIA Information Services Strategic Plan
*   Information Management Program Segments
*   Information Management Goals
*   Organization of Records Management In the Agency
*   DA Information Management Officer (IMO)
*   DA Information Review Officer (IRO)
*   Deputy Director for Support (DDS) - 1965
*   Deputy Director for Administration (DDA) - 1997
*   DA Records


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# Directorate of Administration

## CIA Information Services Strategic Plan

*   “Information and Records Management, including Classification Management, is a fundamental and essential business requirement for the Agency.”

*   “The CIA’s Information Services shall...ensure that each official record is appropriate, accurate, secure and retrievable throughout its life cycle regardless of physical form or media.”


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

# Directorate of Administration

## Information Management Program Segments

*   Records Management - *identfentor, atorge*
*   Classification Management - *Executore Orders*
*   Information Disclosure - *search, retnevals weer for disclosu*
*   Information Automation - *electronic format*

g:\iro\briefing\jfkbref.ppt

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Directorate of Administration

## Information Management Goals

An effective and efficient information management ensures that records are available:

*   to meet day-to-day business needs
*   to ensure the continuity and consistency of records
*   to provide corporate memory and history
*   to protect the rights and interests of the organization, the employees and the public
*   to meet legal requirements


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# Organization of Records Management in the Agency

Associate Deputy Director for Administration

Information Services

This slide is Administrative Internal Use Only

> [Figure: A flowchart depicting the organization of records management in the agency. It shows the relationship between different departments and teams.]

OIT

D/Info Mgt *

Recruitment & Training*

Policy Research & Audit*

Archive & Preservation*

System Development*

Agency Information & Records Management Panel

* = member

DCI/IMO*

DA/IMO*

DI/IMO*

DO/IMO*

DS&T/IMO*

component/imos component/imos component/imos component/imos component/imos

Chart 11

laddaisled396alrmp.ppt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Administrative-Internal Use Only

# Directorate of Administration

## DA Information Management Officer (DA/IMO)

*   The DA/IMO is the Deputy Director for Administration's representative for issues relating to records and classification management.

*   The DA/IMO is responsible for protecting equities consistent with existing statues, EO guidance and internal rules and regulations governing the creation, maintenance and use, and disposition of information.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# Directorate of Administration

## DA Information Review Officer
## (DA/IRO)

*   The DA/IRO is the Deputy Director for Administration's representative for reviewing all DA relevant information for release to the public under FOIA, PA, EO, and other information release programs.

*   The DA/IRO is responsible for protecting equities consistent with existing statutes, EO guidance and internal rules and regulations governing the review and release of classified information, specifically, in response to:

    *   FOIA/PA/EO Requests
    *   Congressional Inquiries
    *   DOJ Inquiries/Litigations
    *   IG Investigations
    *   Special Searches & Other Release Programs


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# Directorate of Administration

## Deputy Director for Support
## (DDS) - 1965

*   Office of the DDS (ODDS)
*   Office of Security (OS)
*   Office of Personnel (OP)
*   Office of Medical Services (OMS)
*   Office of Logistics (OL)
*   Office of Finance (OF)
*   Office of Communications (OC)
*   Office of Training (OTR)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# Directorate of Administration

## Deputy Director for Administration (DDA) - 1997

*   Office of the DDA (ODDA)
*   Office of Personnel Security (OPS)
*   Office of Facilities & Security Services (OFSS)
*   Office of Finance & Logistics (OFL)
*   Human Resources Management (HRM)
*   Office of Medical Services (OMS)
*   Office of Communications (OC)
*   Office of Information Technology (OIT)
*   Office of Training & Education (OTE)
*   Center for Security Evaluation (CSE)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Administrative-Internal Use Only

# Directorate of Administration

# DA Records

*   Information Management Officers
*   Core functions
    *   1960s
    *   1990s
*   Records Life Cycle
    *   Creation
    *   Maintenance & Use
    *   Disposition
*   File organization

Administrative-Internal Use Only Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

13-00000

Administrative-Internal Use Only

# Directorate of Administration

# DA Records

## Records Control Schedules

*   Temporary
*   Permanent

## Records Storage

*   Short term
*   Long term

## Accountability

*   Personal
*   Organization

## Search & Retrieval

Administrative-Internal Use Only

Page 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# Directorate of Administration

## DA Records

*   Access
*   Safeguarding
*   Preservation
    *   Hardcopy
    *   Electronic
*   OGC Retention List
*   Automation

![photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

Combs 1/7

DA Briefing 3/17/97

dads

Info Management Chart 11

DO more centralged file management

DA more decontulygd w/ 10 components offered sols each office manages their own programs

DA/IMO work w/all 10 offices in DA records management, polny, guidance

DA/IRO Sen Agency each Drectorate + DCI

- tests 10 DA components

-component find info, + IRO reviews for possible release

IMOs in components do the records search for both DA/IMO & DA/IRO.

Archive & Records Ctr

DA/OIT manages

47,440 sq ft of records for DA

18,000 sq ft of records total

most record are 'tempory'

pusonnel 75%

finance/pupall 56%

Archive began early 50's

W/255

pe 55 on Bldgs


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

Warehouse w/ shelving

Program ongoing to deal w/expired record/purge

Records Management / Storage

*   system that tells what boxes are expiring
*   OGC retention list - not destroyed until OGC approves

Accountability

Search & Retrieval - To file level - not document - file level

*   ARSENS (?) automated query for Archive information
*   can search for docs intro'd early 50's
*   Old chef list disputed in mid 70's

finger search (hand search) if file is not considered "reasonable" for FOIA

offices have index of files

Records on destruction of records of the file center are kept only a stat section of time (kept longer than the legal requirement) (2-3yrs)

Office of Personnel Security, enter record destruction info in their index. Some do, some don't.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

Cable Process - John Rovito - EOD 1963

Stations can send messages laterally w/o HQS knowledge
Special projects like U-2

Landline, CW, morse code, teletype
One time tape - one time pad.

L Street were operators, cable secretariat

Comm ctr -> cable secretariat -> disseminate

typed by typist based on requirements listed in books for directors/staff/doctorate/head on a slip in message.

Later cable secretariat could suspend info to other directorates

"Special traffic" elint/comment/RI project

dr 63 dift to RW-26 machined crypto.

decrypted using a the process - 3 types

Question: Housely 63 - are there more than 1 channel/comms?

SCI -> channels different Router for each area, LSt, QSt, etc then
Non Shi you can send messages independently.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

4/7

State + CI Mover some links - Hergesare
routers & encryption
SCI & Non SCI = different Networks

Privacy traffic is slugged to individual
Slugy tell who it is duod-to-tell
Cable Secretariat

PL perouited limited - CI had that

Cable # put on as they are logged in
-can tell if #spon Station re sequential
as well (of mots cables are missing)
need to retransmit

WIHM will are log schedules kept?

Chrono records kept?
any records kept?

Now Cable maintenance is responsibility of the
office responsible for the information
not the COMMO LTR.

In 59-64 Cable Secretariat was under DCI
but records we kept for only a relatively
short period of time (microfilm??)
maybe up to 76.

Computer system put in 1977

prior to 77-vital records were microfilmed
all messages every stiff cable


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

5/7

post 64 - Comm picks up "spent traffic"

A Building - did it handle RH?

RL? prescribed + limited

Officers running a project determine the channels used.

# were special / regular traffic given sequential #s or where they numbered on parallel tracks?

SCI - compartmented all in effect from 1952 on
special designee
Military
State
NSA
Intel channel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

DA Questions

B&F

1.  Financial Accounting vouchered, certified, audited
    Finance & Accounting Date, location, timeperiod
    indexing or kept by office in US.

2.  HRM his microfilm of staffing complements
    for that time period

3.  C/Financial Services - doesn't think it was
    maintained that way, if it was, it was
    maintained in a 201, 301 or project file.
    OF records were not organized by project
    but by accounting practices

4.  Station accounting or indigenous personnel
    kept 56 yrs. Non natives kept only 20 yrs.

Personnel

1 Contract personnel
Independent Contractor - office of Finance & Logistics

OP kept them before 96

Filed by name, separate security file, rated file, payroll file

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

7/7

Security

1. get Wed from Barry

3 SRS - collected, developed, evaluated incl. CI nature

5. Security clearance like activities for non-employees but "clearances" per se are not given across the board staff like clearances. They do national agency checks on contractors

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# Types of Questions for DA Records Briefing
March 17, 1997

## Budget and Finance

1. In Cold Warrior, (p. 52) Mangold refers to a CI secret slush fund which was tightly controlled by Angleton and never audited by the usual procedures. According to Mangold, it was this fund which allowed Angleton to run his own operations without supervision. Did the fund exist? Was this fund ever audited? Are there any records of CI operational expenses for the period 1959-63?

2. Mangold also refers (p. 53) to an unnamed CI/B&F officer who says he worked for Angleton from 1958-1964 and never dealt with him directly on a single matter. Is there a list of B&F officers assigned to the CI Staff from 1959-63. Do their records still exist?

3. We have seen Directorate of Operations monthly operational reports which contain information on the allocation/distribution of operational funds. Are there other DO or DA records which reflect how a certain project utilized its funding? Can this type of information from the early 1960's still be retrieved?

4. What records are kept on disbursements to sources in the field? If, hypothetically, LHO had received money from the Agency, what records would exist?

## Personnel

1. What records are maintained on contract personnel?

## Security

1. For the period between 1955-65, what was the universe of files that OS had on individuals of groups?

2. How are Office of Security records indexed?

3. What was the function of the Office of Security/Security Research Staff (OS/SRS)? Why were defector records kept in this component?

4. In the OS/SRS memo of Oct. 31, 1960, written by Marguerite D. Stevens, the file numbers of several defectors are listed: "Robert Edward Webster, EE-18854; Lee Harvey Oswald, MS-11165; Libero Ricciardelli, MS-8295; Vladimir Sloboda, MS-10565; and Joseph Dutkanicz, MS-10724." What do the "MS" and "EE" file prefixes designate? How are these designations assigned?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

5. Does OS process security clearances for non-employees (e.g. sources) to receive access to classified information? What kinds of files are created by this process? How long are these files maintained. For example, Clay Shaw was given a security clearance and had access to classified information based on his "responsibilities" as a source for the Domestic Contacts Division (DCD).

6. Where are records that would describe liaison (etc.) cooperation or operations between OS and CI located? How are these records organized?

7. Where are records regarding operations that OS participated in or ran located. For example, where are the OS records on the Castro assassination attempts?

8. How many files did OS have on Oswald? Which OS components maintained files on Oswald? Why did OS have any files on Oswald?


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)