# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: ITRIN, HERKEPT
201-836808

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          | NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA            |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSED
SLOTTED

BY:
AT:
Z:

DISSEN BY
PER
ACTION UNIT
FILE
ACTION NO

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

53

DOC. MICRO. SER.
SEP 15 1972
MICROFICHE

S E C R E T 282234Z AUG 72 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 13099

DIRECTOR.

WOMUSE EMPYREX

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT I I K I N ARRIVED
   SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 235 PROHIBITED
   ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN BORN
   (19 NOV 26, NEW YORK, US PP B 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ
   BLACKLISTED BECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS
   MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCRODING SAME FILE, NY TIMES REPORTED
   SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BKCROWN ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

3. TRACES REQUESTED.

4. INDEX. FILE 201-836-2022-2-20/3. E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.

SECRET

CS COPY

SECRET

28 AUG 72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

OP: ELISABETH VETTER:BA
UI: WH/7/DR
EXT: 5156
DATE 20 AUGUST 1972

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 15-3

57

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY 28
PER
CONF: WH8
FILE. VR. [photo]

(classification)
SECRET

DOC. SER.
SEP 2 1972

(reference number)
3069447

TO: SANTO DOMINGO
REF SANTO DOMINGO 13099 (IN.694715)

1. BELOW ARE ILLUSTRATIVE TRACES HERBERT ITKIN (201-836808),
   PARTNER LAW FIRM ITKIN, ROBERTS, GREENBAUM, NEW YORK. REGISTERED AGENT
   FOR "HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE" REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOIE
   (201-240483) AND OTHER HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS 1965. REPORTEDLY FURNISHED
   MONEY TO GROUP INVADING HAITI AUG 63. A AND B ARE FOR STATION USE ONLY.

A. HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE USED SUBJECT'S OFFICES IN
NEW YORK CITY; SUBJ SAID HE MADE PERSONAL LOAN OF $15,000 TO
DEJOIE. (DBA-63510, 19 FEB 64).

B. SUBJECT'S FORMER FATHER-IN-LAW CALLED WODISH, NEW YORK
TO SAY SUBJ CLOSELY TIED TO BKCROWN, GIVING IT MUCH ASSISTANCE
HAITI AND ELSEWHERE, IMPLYING SUBJ TRUSTED INFORMANT OR AGENT
NOT STAFF EMPLOYEE. WARNED BKCROWN SUBJ NOT DESIRABLE BECAUSE OF
DOUBTS RE RELIABILITY, DISCRETION, ABILITY TO MEET FINANCIAL
OBLIGATIONS, AND MENTAL EQUILIBRIUM. (KODISH MEMO, 15 FEB 66)

C. NEW YORK TIMES, 9 MARCH 68, REPORTED U.S. OFFICIAL
DESCRIBED SUBJ AS UNDERCOVER AGENT WHO INFILTRATED ORGANIZED

D-22-2-20/3

CS COPY (CONTINUED...)

29 AUG 72

201-836808

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CRIG: ELISABETH VETTER:BA
UNITI
EXT:
DATE:
MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SICH DV
SECRET
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION SEP 5 9 32 All TE
NO INDOL RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
BY PER RECEIVED IN CS FILE NO.
CONF: INFO FILE, VR, IP/EDI

SECRET
CITE DIRECTOR 366744

TO CRIME, REPORTING REGULARLY, TO LNERGO. ONE HIGH OFFICIAL SAID
SUBJ. RISKED HIS LIFE TO "STAND UP TO MAFIA." ARTICLE ALSO STATES
SUBJ REGISTERED SEPT 63 AS FOREIGN AGENT DOM REP, MAKING NUMEROUS
TRIPS THERE. (TM-ING COPY THIS ITEM.)

D. WASHINGTON POST, 19 JULY 68, REPORTED SIX ALLEGED
ASSOCIATES OF SUBJ, A KEY FIGURE IN JAMES L. MARCUS (FORMER NYC
WATER COMMISSIONER) KICKBACK CASE, INDICATED CHARGES OF ANOTHER
KICKBACK CONSPIRACY INVOLVING MORTGAGE APPLICATIONS MADE TO
TEAMSTERS UNION PENSION FUND; THO OF SIX ALLEGED ASSOCIATES
IDENTIFIED AS MAFIA MEMBERS. SUBJ NOT INDICTED BUT NAMED IN
FOUR OVERT ACTS CITED INDICTMENT.

E. NEW YORK DAILY NEWS, 15 OCT 68, REPORTED SUBJ, LABOR
LAWYER, TRYING HAVE HIS TRIAL MOVED FROM STATE TO FEDERAL COURT,
CONTENDING HE ACTING AS LNERGO AND BKCROWN AGENT IN CONNECTION
ABOVE CASE.

2. JULY 68 CHECK NUMEROUS BKCROWN COMPONENTS FAILED REVEAL ANY
   CONNECTION BETWEEN SUBJ AND BKCROWN.

3. FILE: 201-836808 AND 22-2-20/3. E 2 IMPDET

END OF MESSAGE

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PACHICITED.
UTIENT CATING
OFLLER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

ORIG: ELISABETH VETTER:ba
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: PER
CONF: FILE, VR.

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

# SECRET

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RIO
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

(classification)

# SECRET

PAGE THREE

CITE DIRECTOR 306941

WH COMMENT: REQUESTED HQS TRACES SUBJ WHO ARRIVED DOM REP 22 AUG 72
FROM NEW YORK, PROHIBITED FROM ENTERING, AND RETURNED
NEW YORK SAME DAY.

CI/EXO F.E. HUBBARD - IN DRAFT

![signature of THEODORE G. SHACKLEY]
THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

![signature of WILLIAM P. MACLEAN]
WILLIAM P. MACLEAN
C/WH/7

**secret**

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
down grading and
declassification
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

US uning fire! (or. arms) on
ITKIN.

To Itkin folder

9 June 71
(DATE)

NAME CHECK REPORT - MPRC

SUBJECT
ITKIN, Herbert

NAME(S) FROM RECORD
(No middle name)

DATE CHECKED: 7 JUN 1971

CASE NO. AND CATEGORY
544867-FSB-HRK

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
19 NOV 1925 Richmond Hill, LI, NY.

ADDRESS (include date)
1738 48 5t.
Brooklyn, NY - (1/4)

OFFICER

ACTIVE DUTY

ENLISTED
14 Feb 45- 26NOV46

SERIAL NO.
12230 694
RANK
55GT
TYPE DISCHARGE
Hon

MILITARY SPECIALTY OR CHIEF DUTIES
Admin

FOREIGN SERVICE (date from - to)
8/45 - 10/46

EDUCATION (College, # years)
12 yrs- Cornell (44)// Brooklyn Coll (45)

EVALUATION(S) (officer, etc.)
EXC

THEATRE
APTO

CIVILIAN OCCUPATION
Student

SECURITY CLEARANCES

NONE INDICATED
DATED
BASED ON
BY
COMPLETED ON

SECRET

TOP SECRET

CRYPTOGRAPHIC

COURT MARTIAL(S)
[X] NONE
YES. (see remarks)

REMARKS - (Give details re court martials, disciplinary actions, special qualifications, language abilities, wounds, aids, decorations, citationship, etc. Use extra page and/or add attachments if space)
1) Mother: ITKIN, Edythe
2) Good Cond. Med.

WILLIAM P. KOSTERMAN
Special Agent in Charge
7 JUN 1971

![distribution]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Herbert ITKIN

Date and Place of Birth: 19 Nov. 1926, Queens (also given as Jamaica, L. I., New York).

Description: 5'11". Brown hair. Brown eyes. (Photos in file).

Passports and Travel:

Ppt. B122634, issued 4 Jan. 1961. Renewed 11 Feb. 1964.

Ppt G097867, issued 14 Jan. 1966.

a. Was to depart NYC for UK, BOAC 506 o/a 14 Jan. '66. Had made 4 trips abroad in earlier 12 months.

b. Was to depart o/a 8 Jan. '61, UK & Western Europe. Two weeks vacation.

Father: Arthur ITKIN. Born 18 May 1901, Russia (also given as "Poland", 18 May 1900). US citizen (by naturalization? marriage?)
Last stipulated residence: 118 Front St., Dublin, Ga (?).

Mother: Edith HAVES, born 27 April 1907 (also given as "27 April 1905"). US citizen by birth.

Permanent Residences:

440 E. 79th St., NYC (Jan. 1966)

33 Greenwich Ave., NYC (Jan. 1964)

168 Rim Lane, Hicksville, New York (Jan. 1961)

Shelton Towers Hotel, Lexington Ave., NYC (Aug. 1966)

300 Madison Ave., NYC (Legal offices, 1965).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Marital Status/spouse:

Adah Itkin, born 4 May 1925, married 12 Dec. 1963

Diana Kane, born 8 Feb. 1930


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

LEPT OF STATE PASSPORT APPLICATION

DATE: 14 JANUARY 1966

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: HERBERT ITKIN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Rhi

fee

Is there a current appl.
for this person? If so,
this c/b should
be attached to it
for 1/18

Not in file yet 1/19/61-Date

ITKIN, HERBERT

1/24/61

1/30/61

2/1/61

2-2-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

REFERENCE SLIP 1-3-60

TO:

1. DT/RAF

2. 
3. FORI

4. 
5. 
APPROVAL

AS REQUESTED

COMMENT

FOR YOUR INFORMATION

INITIAL FOR CLEARANCE

NECESSARY ACTION

NOTE AND FORWARD

ANOTE AND RETURN

IPER CONVERSATION

IPREPARE DEPLY

SEE ME

SIGNATURE

REMARKS OR ADDITIONAL ROUTING

Our records indicate ppd.

# B122634 Issued 1-4-61

FROM (NAME AND ORGANIZATION)

PT/NY

SIGNATURE

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

FATE.
SENCY
CENTER
630 FI. IN AVENUE
EW YORK 20, NEW YORK
OFFICIAL BUSINESS

![Stamp on envelope]

1/4/61 B22-634

NEW YORK PASSPORT AGENCY
1680 FIFTH AVENUE
NEW YORK 20, N. Y.

POSTAGE AND FEES PAID
U. S. DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PASSPORT OFFICE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Itk'in, Herbert

Bureau of Records and Statistics Department of Health The City of New York

# CERTIFICATION OF BIRTH

THIS IS TO CERTIFY that Herbert Itkin

Sex Male was born in the City of New York on Nov. 19 1926

according to Birth Record No. 11185 filed in the QUEENS

Office of this Bureau on Dec. 3, 1926

In witness whereof, the seal of the Department of Health of the City of New York has been affixed
hereto this 4 day of Jan 1961

Carl L. Erhardt Irvin Barth

Director of Bureau Borough Registrar

Warning: This certification is not valid if it has been altered in any way whatsoever or if it does not bear the raised seal of the Department of Health.

![seal of the department of health]

Q 60104


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET 232234Z AUG 72 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 13099

DIRECTOR.

WOMUSE EMPYREX

1. EMPYREX LIAISON ADVISES HERBERT I IKIN ARRIVED SANTO DOMINGO 22 AUG 72 FROM NEW YORK PAA 255 PROHIBITED ENTRY AND RETURNED NEW YORK SAME DAY PAA 236. ITKIN BORN (19 NOV 26, NEW YORK, US PP B 1220178.

2. NO STATION TRACES. EMPYREX RECORDS INDICATE SUBJ BLACKLISTED BECAUSE HE ENGAGED ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND HAS MAFIA CONNECTIONS. ACCRODING SAME FILE, NY TIMES REPORTED SUBJ PROVIDED INFO TO BKCROWN ON PERSONS IN DOMREP.

3. TRACES REQUESTED.

4. 19DEX. FILE 201- , 22-2-20/3. E2 IMPDEI WN-SISM.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

☑ UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

☐ CFIDENTIAL

☑ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

# CURRENT CABLE

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM. RID/SD 17
1 D 17
DW-3

EXTENSION NO

DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE
RECEIVED
FORWARDED

OFFICERS
INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

1. E/BC

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. DC/CI Office

8 JUN 1970
12 JUN 1970

W

TO: ACTION ADDRESSEE

1.  Cables forwarded herewith have not been integrated into the CS record system.
2.  If you feel they should be classified into a CS file, please indicate file number (and other necessary processing) and return to RID/SD, Room 1 D 17, TUBE: DW-3.

RETAIN:

CS File Number

INDEXING: YES NO
(If yes, indicate names.)

3. If these cables do not require processing into the CS Records System, please destroy.

To 5: E/BC cable action turned over to Office of General Consul with DIRECTOR 035476, 19 May 70; with following from CI office DIR 037202. No file designation on either outgoing. Per telecom with DC/CI Secy forwarding RID cable for proper disposition on clandestine element. Particularly info that sheds some unfavorable publicity toward Agency.

D: We have this already?

Rg: yes we have c/dy ey shall I just file this in his 201 file?

6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
yes

FORM
3-62
610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

☐ SECRET

☐ CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

☐ UNCLASSIFIED

129
3-70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

CABLE SECARAT DISSLYCIATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 14

SECRET

INOLA

CLASAFY TO CS FLE FIO.

X-REP TO CS 1.

FILE RID RETURN TO BRANCH

C/EURS FILE, VE C/RI/SOC/CIC/FZ_DDP_APOP_CSAC

C513

SECRET 181745Z MAY 70 CITE LONDON 1613 (LAUTERBACH ACTING)

DIRECTOR

RYBAT KEYWAY 10005508

1.  SMOTH (SMUPROOT) EXPECTS DE ASKED BY HYG TO COMMENT ON ACCURACY LONDON TELEGRAPH ARTICLE 16 MAY TO EFFECT THAT MR. HERPERT ITKIN, AMERICAN LABOR LAWYER, WAS ON JKLANCE SECRET MISSION IN ERITAIN IN 1965. ARTICLE SAYS JKLANCE HAS FORMALLY ACKNOWLEDGED IN PAPER SUBMITTED TO NEW YORK SUPREME COURT THAT ITKIN WORKED AS AN AGENT IN BRITAIN AND THAT THIS ONLY SECOND TIME JKLANCE HAS PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGED THE ASSIGNMENT OF AN UIDERCOVER AGENT NOT OFFICIALLY ON JKLANCE PAYROLL (POWERS WAS FIRST).

2.  ACCORDING LOCAL LNERGO, IT ACTUALLY HANDLED ITKIN IN LONDON AS INFORMANT ON CRIMINAL MATTERS IN 1965. JAGUAR AWARE OF THIS. HOWEVER, LOCAL LNERGO AS CONFUSED AS WE ARE AS TO ITKIN'S JKLANCE CONNECTION AT THAT TIME.

3.  REQUEST HQS ADVISE WHAT WE MAY TELL SMOTH.

4.  NO STATION RECORD ITKIN.

5.  FILE DEFER.

GP-1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SENDER ILL CHECK CLASSI. TION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

# OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS                  | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | --------------------------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | Mr. Holmes                        |      |          |
| 1   | CI/R&A                            |      |          |
| 2   |                                   |      |          |
| 3   | youll appreciate                  |      |          |
| 4   | at your cartiest convenience      |      |          |
| 5   | a prin indication of G.s response |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks: one is forthcoming on the.
Seen by John Greaney and John
Warner. Neither has any problems
with it.

questions concerning b's knowledge
of HARBM. If there is any question
there is anything unclear in this
Was despatches that intent of this dispatch is
not clear, hqts would welcome any questions
by cable.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. | DATE         |        |
| --------------------------------- | ------------ | ------ |
| OGC                               | 2/13/69      |        |
| UNCLASSIFIED                      | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET |

FORM DD 237 Use previous editions
1-67 CPO: 1968 0 - 297-542 (40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# Chief of Station, San Salvador

# Chief, WH Division

# Chief, WOMUSE

Interview of Mr. Luis E. GUTIERREZ

See paragraph 1 below.

1.  Your assistance is requested in interviewing the Salvadorian citizen, Luis E. GUTIERREZ, for information which would be helpful to this Government in determining the accuracy of certain claims made confidentially by Herbert L. ITKIN. Mr. ITKIN is a prime witness in legal proceedings presently underway in New York City involving the Mafia and related underworld organizations. ITKIN lives under the protection of U.S. Federal Marshals.

2.  The following data is for your information. It should not be used in dealing with GUTIERREZ or outside of this Organization. ITKIN has been an FBI informant since March 1963. He has now claimed to have worked for this Organization during the period 1954/55 to 1960. ITKIN asserts that his contact during these years was one Philip HARBIN. This inquiry is concerned solely with ITKIN's claimed relationship with this Organization from 1954/55 to 1960 when he alleges HARBIN was his contact. As will be seen, GUTIERREZ, ITKIN alleges, also knew HARBIN during that time and that fact, therefore, is material to the credibility of ITKIN's story.

ITKIN's first contact with Philip HARBIN was in 1955 when he claims to have been contacted pursuant to a meeting he, ITKIN, had in Philadelphia with a leading personality of this Organization and another high-government official late in 1954 or early 1955. According to ITKIN, HARBIN never made the specific claim of being from this Organization but that was ITKIN's assumption.

ITKIN describes HARBIN as about 42 or 43 (in 1955), an American. He had receding hair, combed back but parted. He was about 5'8" in height,

Attachments:
As stated (2 copies)

Orig & 1 - COS, San Salvador

---

|                       |
| --------------------- |
| HSSW-2742             |
| SECRET/RYBAT          |
| CI/R&A - R. B. Holmes |
| WH/2/ES&HD 14Feb.     |
| C/WH/2 11 Feb 1969    |

---

14 February 1969

201-836808

7468

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

well-built with little evidence of fat. He always wore a vest. He spoke fluent
Spanish and could have been of Polish or Russian family background. HARBIN
always drank tea, never coffee. He appeared affluent with a professorial air
about him.

Following an initial mecting, ITHIN alleges that he am HARDE periodically in New York City. ITKIN alleges that he passed to HARBIN copies
of the correspondence developed by his law firm, Delson, Levin and Gordon,
dealing with Indonesia, Burma, and India, ITKIN left that law firm in mid-1957,
presumably thereby losing total access. Among the materials ITKIN claims he
passed to HARBIN before he left the Delson, Levin and Gordon firm was informa-
tion he picked up from a friend who worked at the United Nations for the
Government of El Salvador. This friend was Luis E. GUTIERREZ (see biographic
sketch, Attachment A). ITKIN claims that he became very friendly with
GUTIERREZ, who was studying either at New York University or Columbia
where he prepared a master's thesis on El Salvador's economic position.
HARBIN, he says, was interested in the topic and ITKIN alleges he furnished
HARBIN notes of GUTIERREZ' monograph.

Sometime presumably after mid-year 1957, HARBIN asked ITKIN if he
knew anybody else who could do (intelligence) work, ITKIN recalled GUTIERREZ,
who meanwhile had moved to the position as Consul General of El Salvador in
New Orleans, Louisiana. HARBIN--ITKIN says--accepted the suggestion and
ITKIN provided an introduction for HARBIN by letter, which he sent to GUTIERREZ
in New Orleans, ITKIN asserts that HARBIN--according to his own statement--
went to New Orleans and made the "new contact". ITKIN claims he last saw
HARBIN in 1960.

3. A comparison between the key points of ITKIN's account as summarized
   in the immediately preceding paragraph with the data set out in Attachment A and
   E will show immediate contradictions that tend to destroy any credibility in
   ITKIN's account, particularly with respect to his relationship to GUTIERREZ.
   We also point out, solely for your information, that we have found no confirma-
   tion in our records of any relationship between this Organization and ITKIN during
   the period 1954-1960, No traces have been found in our records or anywhere in
   government thus far of a Philip HARBIN, and there is explicit denial that there was
   any meeting in Philadelphia in 1954 between ITKIN and the high officials he
   nominates. Finally, there is no substantiation in our files of any of the intelli-
   gence product which ITKIN allegedly passed to HARBIN. This case, however, is
   of such a nature that we must strive, if possible, to have GUTIERREZ' own
   statement for the record.

4. We leave to the Station determination of the best manner to approach
   GUTIERREZ. It is our preference that a Station officer, under suitable cover,
   perform the interview, but it may well be that a consular or embassy officer
   might be the best person to do the job. We repeat that we are concerned in this
   matter solely with the verification or denial of ITKIN's statements, specifically
   the allegation that he introduced HARBIN to GUTIERREZ in New Orleans and
   that as a consequence GUTIERREZ would be in a position to identify and describe
   HARBIN in a way that would permit us to locate him if he exists. The request
   for GUTIERREZ' assistance in this matter is in no way predicated upon hostility
   towards ITKIN nor is there any predisposition against his claims if indeed
   evidence is found to back them up. If GUTIERREZ indicates that he is willing to
   provide whatever information he can, you can assure him that his information is
   solely for U.S. Government use and will not be made public by us at any time
   without his expressed consent. Also, it is clear that we are prepared to accept
   his decision to give no assistance in the matter.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET/RYBAT                                                                            HSSW-2742

5.  We have compiled a short statement that might be used by the interviewer to explain to GUTIERREZ the purpose of the interview (see Attachment B). A list of questions, which should be given orally, is elaborated in Attachment C. You will note that these questions concern the larger as well as narrower clements of GUTIERREZ' relations with ITKIN. We are willing to settle for a specific answer to the narrower question of Philip HARBIN in preference to generalizations about the whole relationship. If, as a consequence of your handling, GUTIERREZ is willing to talk in depth, we will be grateful.

6.  Attachment D is a copy of a New York Times article concerning ITKIN and one of the completed ſederal cases in New York City. This item is attached for your background reading. This may be shown to GUTIERREZ, of course. Attachment E is a copy of a letter dated 26 February 1965 from GUTIERREZ to ITKIN. Again, the content of this letter tends to support the theory that ITKIN's story, as elaborated in paragraph 2 above, is a fabrication. While possibly based on a real relationship, it appears to be a fabrication with respect to chronology and with respect to the exact mutual interests involved. Also included in this attachment is ITKIN's answer to the letter. We feel in retrospect that GUTIERREZ might be unhappy to read his own letter in the course of a consular interview. We, therefore, suggest that this not be shown to him. However, there is no objection to an indication that the U.S. Government is aware that GUTIERREZ was in perfectly correct correspondence with ITKIN during 1965 on business matters.

7.  We would appreciate compliance at your earliest convenience and a pre- liminary indication by cable of GUTIERREZ' response, if one is forthcoming, on the questions concerning GUTIERREZ' knowledge of HARBIN. If there is anything unclear in this dispatch, Headquarters would welcome any questions by cable. All correspondence should be addressed Chief, WOMUSE, via Chief, WH.

James R. Rumsey


FORM
8-64 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
1401

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/RYBAT                                                                                                                                     PAGE NO
3
CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET/RYBAT

Attachment A to HSSW-2742

GUTIERREZ, Luis Enérique

Born in San Salvador, El Salvador, on 15 July 1916; son of Luis and Concepcion G.; B. Commerce from Sir George Williams University, 1948; M. A. from New York University, 1951; Ph.D. in Economics, University of San Salvador, 1959; married Lydia DIAZ on 21 September 1940; one daughter, Maria Marta; vice consul of El Salvador in Montreal, 1944-1949; consul in New York City, 1949-1952; consul general, New Orleane, 1952-1958 (30 December 1952-3 April 1958)*; supt, banks and corporations, El Salvador, 1958-1961; general manager inversiones commerciales, 1961 - present; professor of economics, University of El Salvador, 1958 - present; commissioner, City of San Salvador, 1964 - present; served to first lieutenant, Salvadorian Army, 1933 - 1939; member of American Economists Association, Association of Salvadorian Economists; home: 83 avenida Norte 619; office: Apartado Postal 1144, San Salvador, El Salvador.

Who's Who in Commerce and Industry, 1968-1969, page 558.

Foreign Consular Offices in United States, 1954 through 1959.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET/RYBAT

Attachment B to HSSW-2742

Suggested Statement to GUTIERREZ

I understand you have a friend named Herbert ITKIN, a lawyer, now living in New York. Mr. ITKIN is under the protection of United States authorities because he is the prime witness in very significant legal cases presently pending before the Federal court in New York City. Mr. ITKIN, in private testimony to U.S. authorities, has indicated that you were a friend of his; he met you in New York while you were at the United Nations. He has also indicated that sometime in 1957 he sent a letter of introduction to you in New Orleans, presenting one Philip HARBIN whom ITKIN claims did go to New Orleans and introduced himself to you. Your answers to questions relating to the above would be of great help to the U.S. Government in determining the veracity of ITKIN's statements.

SECRET/RYBAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET/RYBAT

Attachment C to HSSW-2742

Questions to be presented orally to Luis E. GUTIERREZ

Would you describe the circumstances leading to your introduction to Mr. Herbert ITKIN and the nature of your contacts with Mr. ITKIN? When did you first meet Mr. ITKIN? Where were you working at the time? What was your position?

What school or university were you attending at the time? For what degree were you preparing? In what subject? What subject did you use for your thesis? Did you show it to ITKIN and/or did you give him a copy?

Did you continue to maintain contact with him after your departure from New York? Do you still maintain correspondence with him? When did you last have contact with Mr. ITKIN?

In 1957 or 1958 did you receive a letter from Mr. ITKIN introducing a Philip HARBIN?

Did a man named Philip HARBIN come to New Orleans and introduce himself to you? Did he have a letter of introduction from Mr. ITKIN? (How did he represent himself, 1.c., whom did he represent?) Would you describe Philip HARBIN? Would you describe your first meeting with Philip HARBIN? What subjects were covered? How long were contacts maintained? When were they terminated? For what reason?

SECRET/RYBAT

H/W att 3th HSSW-2742

COPY

201-836808


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

Attachment E to HSSW-2742

APDO. F-3
TDDOXD NI 740

DR. LUIS K. GUTIERREZ
ECONOMISTA

SAN SALVADOR,
EL SALVADOR, C. A.

February 26,1965.

Mr. Herbert Itkin,
300 Madison Ave.,
New York City, N.Y.

Dear Herby:

It was a real good surprise to receive your letter of February 15, 1965. I had written you twice in the last three years, and I had no answer. I went to New York to the C.I.O. Convention in September 1963; then I looked for you everywhere, but I found you nowhere. So I realized that you had disappeared from New York and moved to another place. But what a relief now: You still are in the Empire State kicking around and thinking about your old friends.

As you probably remember we do not see each other since 1952. Let me give you a rough briefing on what happens during this time. In November 1952 I was appointed Consul General of El Salvador at New Orleans; in 1958 I resigned and came back to my country and was appointed Comptroller of the Bank Inspecting Bureau; then in 1960 I was appointed General Director of the Social Security Bureau. In 1961 I moved to private business as General Manager of INVERSIONES COMERCIALES, S.A., a small insurance company. Among some of my present extra activities, I am: a) member of the City Government (City Commissioner); b) member of the Advisory Board of the Central Bank and c) Professor of Economics and Business Management at the School of Engineering of the University of El Salvador.

Although, as you can see, I am in the High Brass category I belong at the same time to the low income bracket group. For that reason I have been looking for a more juicy business, but so far I have found nothing. That is why I would say you are just on time offering me to do some business with you. I hope you will write and tell me more about what you have in mind. Also I will be waiting for you in April or any other time; the sooner the better.

There is something else I must tell you. I want to go back to New York and I need your help very badly. You know that in order to work in the States one must have a resident visa and to obtained such visa one must have an affidavit from an American Citizen. Could you be so kind giving me such a help? I hope you will say YES.

With best regards, I am

Sincerely yours,

![signature]

H/W all. #5th HSSW-2772
CS COPY
201-836808


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

xxxxxxxxxxxxx 300 Madison Avenue
(14th Floor)

March 2, 1965

Dr. Luis E. Gutierrez
APDO, POSTAL 1144
San Salvador, Central America

Dear Luis:

I will plan to see you in April and will let you know a few weeks before.

I am sure that we will be able to work out something together that will bo to our mutual benefit in getting you back to America.

Sincerely yours,

Herbert Itkin

HI:gtc


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# U.S. Officials Say Itkin Was an Agent, Reporting to F.B.I.

## ITKIN AN INFORMER WHO HELPED F.B.I.
## U.S. OFFICIALS SAY

Figure in Marcus Case Said to Have Risked Life to "Stand Up to Mafia"

By BARNARD L. COLLIER

Herbert Itkin, one of six persons indicted in the Marcus kick-back scandal, has been described by Federal officials as an undercover agent who infiltrated the world of organized crime and reported regularly to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

Mr. Itkin, now under 24-hour armed guard by Federal marshals, is to be the Government’s key witness in a Federal conspiracy case. He is a co-defendant along with former Water Commissioner James L. Marcus; a reputed Mafia leader, Antonio (Tony Ducks) Corallo; Henry Fried, owner of a New York construction company, Daniel J. Motto a union leader, and Charles J. Rappaport a former law partner of Mr. Itkin.

Mr. Itkin - called one of the most important Government informers in recent years - is described as having provided undercover information to the F.B.I. while he engaged in numerous private business ventures around the world.

There is no solid information on his motives for becoming an informer. However, one high Federal official has called the, 41-year-old Manhattan lawyer a "strange" man who risked his life to "stand up to the Mafia."


As Informant in Other Cases

Federal officials disclosed that Mr. Itkin was providing the Government with large quantities of "inside" information on underworld characters and their dealings. He is a potential witness, they say, in numerous criminal cases apart from the Marcus affair.

These cases are said to involve labor racketeering, gambling, bribery, income-tax evasion and a whole range of other offenses at the city, state and Federal levels, some with international dimensions.

The story of Mr. Itkin’s activities as an undercover agent was pieced together by The New York Times - and then confirmed by Government officials - after extensive interviews and a search of public and private documents and letters in New York, Washington, the Caribbean area and elsewhere.

Along with his activities as an undercover agent, Mr. Itkin was involved in numerous international business ventures.

Some of his involvements - his associations and business dealings - at least those indicated by the available documents and by people who are willing to talk about him - show that his involvement was not only with Mafia figures like Corallo and public figures like Mr. Marcus, but with politicians in the Dominican Republic, couple with-minded exiles from Haiti, landowners in Ghana, union officials in New York and Detroit, and gamblers in London.

Investigations are already proceeding on the basis of in-

Continued on Page 15, Column 2,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# 14-00000

## Continued - Page 1, Col. 4

lawyer. City Hall claims they pay by 5 per cent of an emergency contract awarded without bidding in the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electric Power. According to some if the tricity would be paid as a kick- and then to obtain lower- Back.

wyer. The contract is estimated, that the inquiries. According to some if those in the near future.

Government officials would warn him every city official has had that by Mr. Fried and his family.
Government quick to point out, however, has investor in full to city! The indictment charges that Mr. Fried and his company under-prepared Mr. Marcus 2 per cent of that Mr. Itkin, despite his investors.
In fact," said one Federal Assistance from Federal authorities said Mr. Ikina and his family life is in a few case officials and Attorney Mr. Marcus became Water Commissioner on Sept. 1 and ready to Mr. Ikine-awarded the contract to S. T.
Concern has been expressed as extremely nervous Guard! At the same time the alleged conspiracy began, Mr. Marcus's friends acting as an unpaid mayoral assistant-
"There are many people have accused him for water departments to be diverted in a case comes to their individual business and Mr. Itkin was his agent lawyer and partner in several joint ventures.

On Jan. 11 the case took its bizarre murder twist when the defendant’s F.B.I. arrested Mr. Roden on Mr. charges of trying to buy the official said turn-of-an un-to keep identified witness in the Marcus affair. Mr. Itkin was said to have been that witness! Four days later, Mr. Schwartz, before the Long Island lawyer, was arrested in Manhattan as a participant in the same alleged murder conspiracy.

Federal agents say privately that Mr. Mr. Itkin has already been the target of an alleged murder plot years to be provided information years be provided information and defendant in the Central Intelligence Marcus case.

Exactly a month after the Federal kickback indictment, United States; and, where he is also known Attorney Robert M. Morgan-theau, both Mr. Marcus and Mr. Itkin were arrested for the District Attorney Frank S. second time on a warrant by about Mr. District Attorney Frank S. Hogan. Mr. Itkin appears to have! They were charged with having accepted a $10.000 bribe in his law practice and emergency contracts that a company called Vintray Enterprises, Inc., might receive from Mr. Marcus’s department.

Documents in which Mr. Itkin’s name appears. And even what is available only serves to

On Sept. 16, 1963, for example, Mr. Itkin fled with a Justice Department to register himself as a foreign agent of the Dominican Republic.

He declared that his purpose was to act for a Coral Gabins company called Westrade. Inc., in efforts "to negotiate on behalf of the Dominican Republic and bank or broker-age company in the United States, a bond issue in the brought amount of $35-million to extend: them to walk.

Westrade, Inc., described as


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

a concern that went in the to invace Hartosa She
export of furniture and the Domincer founder.
production of prefabricated A Washington, on-time
buildings, has since gone bank-tions man, was a so asgard:po;
rupt and was formally dis-to be rated, and that during
served last year for norpay- that same period Mr.'ltkiamet
area of Florida state taxes, with fine they mites
Despite the fated reponation, possibly
the company's former president and developer, a clandestine
ent, a Haitianborn Miami organization to pan overthrow
businessman named Robert, the Dorester regime in Haiti.
Deschamps, denies that Mr. in the year, Mr. Itkin's
Itkin was ever authorized to contact the Dominican Pe-
public have been maintained.
represent him of the company and records show that he trav-
"I spoke to him exactly. eled to S. Duroge to
twice, Mr. Deschamps ted tremendous times up until his in-
cently. "Once in New York and merous date document laid tim
once in Miami in cer late diciment laid tim Dominion Situation"
1961 or early 1962. He was sent to me, I recall, Mr. Dejoie. According to bumen.
Haitian officials wote Mr. Itkan made about 20 visits
operated the Haitian President, to the Dominican Republic to
François Duvalier). he said he grade, before we shortly after
had met Dejoie in the Dominin (the coil war broke out in April
miniran Republic. of that year.
"We talked first in a hotel in A close friend said Mr. Itkin
Miami and be told me he could described as trips to Santo
get us financing from a union Domingo as "the thins" having
pension fund-I think he said to do with States efforts
the teamsters, or maybe the to bring stablity to be war-
teachers union. I told him to torn country.
isre what he could do and we'd. It is not clear exactly when
discuss it again."
"Then I went to New York," with Corallo, the minal
Mr. Deschamps said. "And now figure, but instead intimulata sry
hua in his office. I was put off it was te and after
by him right away. One thing1961.
was, he opened a black cabinet The officer's confirm that Mr.
behind his desk ard I saw a Aitken traveled with Corallo to
secret telephine and a night-London-a city Mr. Itkin visited
stick. I had done some checking often in 1960, when the
on him and I didn't like all the British Governorat refused to
secrecy business."
permit Corallo to reasain the.
Can't Recall '$2,000 Fee' reported came c6 Corailos
Mr. Deschamps insists that Master was that he was trying
Mr. New York arriving was the plan round of some of
that be had with Mr. Itkin, and England's legal proceeding rainos
of any agreement between Dir. United States. for Mala "ca" in the
Itkin and Westrade, inc. John F. Malone, assistant
As for a $2,000 fee that director in change of the F.B.I.'s
Mr. Itkin stated in the registra New York office, said he would
it.on forma that he received from not comment on any aspect of
Westrade, Inc.: Perhans that the Marcus case. United States
was for some expenses hetorney Nordestiau was un
might have had, but I don't lavatlabis te comment.
I don't
remember paying Mr. Deschamps and
Mr. Itkin was also registered
as a forriga agent for the
Provisional Government of the
Republic of Haitin San Juan.
P.. Thus ex group was
beaded by Mr. Itkin
in an agreement fed with
the registration and dated May
116l, Mr. Itkin was to be paidi.
lan annual retainer of $50,000
for a period of two years
immediatriy den and owing as
soon as the said Provisional
Government bones the de
facto or de jure Government of
the Republic of Haiti and
Haitian Territory."
The records indicate that the
relationship between Mr. Itkin
and the Haitian coup was
terminated in September, 1964
Jand that instead of getting his
retainer, Mr. Itkn personally
lent Mr. Dejoie $15,000 for un
stated purjes.
Mr. Dejoie was unavailable
Sfur comment, hat Laitan cales
wlakit in artford not to be identified
claim that during the time the
registration was in effect Mr.
Dejoie was often in De Domi
nican Republic, and was active
Jin nae abortive attempt in 1963


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Newspaper Argicle on Herbert Itkin

On 22 October 1968, the attached article from the 15 October 1968 edition of the New York Daily News concerning James Marcus and iHerbert Itkin was shown in a low key to 'r. Edward Long, Country Director APA/CAR, by Mr. Paul V. Harwood, Chief, Wit/7. Mr. Long expressed no interst in the article.

Bob Berg

WII/7/ilt

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

New York Daily Star
25 October 1948

## Marcus Sentencing Put Off

The sentencing of lawyer, and one time Water Commissioner, Marcus, on state charges of first and second-degree forgery was put off yesterday, likely set for Nov. 4.

Note:

Marcus, 57, is serving a former 2-year term for conspiracy to make a $10,000 kickback on a job bid. He was to have been sentenced in Manhattan Supreme Court on charges for which he has been indicted with Ikin. Marcus pleaded guilty.

Sentencing was put off until Nov. 28 to await the outcome of Ikin's efforts to have his trial moved from state to federal court. Ikin continues he was acting as an agent for the Fair


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

## Marcus Contini....?

This refers to an exchange between Marcus Contini and Walter Currier. Marcus or state charges of ...the Supreme Court a territory was put off yesterday, but it may get by ward for two months pending develop.
Marcus is an agent for the FBI.

Note:

Denies 33 is setting a foot in to for now may try to sell he'd send a check on a not from ... and transfered ..Harvattan ..lease Court on charges for wants he had been defrauded with Marcus: promised jury.

Southern was put off and try to return. Defendant's Henry's court to save his trifled ground from state to federal court. Hasn't chance for may ... filling now in court for the ...filling

Reminder: do you Oliver this or does Harwood Long it?
(He prefers the latter.)
JH

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, WH/FI

SUBJECT : Herbert Itkin

1. There has been no Agency contact with ITKIN. Ray
   ROCCA, C/CI/R&A stated that CI Staff definitely never was
   in contact with him. Ray ROCCA's source of info on the DEJOIE-
   Max BOLTE-ΙΤΚΙΝ & Company, activities was Max BOLTE and *not*
   ITKIN.

2. Offices checked for possible contact, all of which
   proved negative, were: Office of Security, Domestic Contacts
   Service, Domestic Operations Division, CA/3, CA/4, WH/7 and
   CI/R & A.

3. On 13 May 1963 ITKIN reported to DIA in San Juan
   the results of his meeting with DEJOIE, BOLTE, FIGNOLE and
   Luc STEPHEN in their formation of the Provisional Haitian
   Government in Exile formed in San Juan on 12 May & that
   ITKIN had been hired by that group as its Attorney. On
   10 June 1963 ITKIN registered with the Department of State
   as a Foreign Agent for this group adding that he made a
   personal loan to DEJOIE of $15,000.

4. A 22 May 1963 Memorandum of Conversation from the
   Department of State sets forth the results of an informal
   meeting (possibly held on 28 April 1963) attended by Forrest
   E. ABBUHL (Officer in Charge, Haitian Affairs, State ARA/CRA),
   DEJOIE, BOLTE, a (fnu) BRODIE, and ITKIN, in which DEJOIE
   expressed his political views, asked for U.S. support for
   an invasion of Haiti, U.S. recognition of the Provisional
   Government in Exile, etc.

5. Appropriate documents substantiating above are
   herewith attached.

James T. O. Braafladt
C/WH/7/CI

19 July 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

18-19 July 1968

Herbert ITKIN (201-332-5003)

Security (Frederick Pucci)

Security has checked this name out many times & still comes up NEGATIVE on Agency connections.

Domestic Contact Service (DCS) (Sucaro)

No contact w/ DCS. In 1966 ITKIN'S (former) father-in-law (E. Kent Kane, a prominent attorney in Pennsylvania, Republican politician & close to Hugh Scott) called DCS in N.Y. asking if ITKIN was affiliated in any way w/ CIA or if ITKIN, being an agent for CIA. DCS says that for years ITKIN has bragged of being agent or informer for CIA, but he is not.

Domestic Operations (John Markham)

No record of any contact.

CA/4-Labor (Diary)

No record of any contact. However, since info in SOTO file indicates some Haitians were involved w/ OLIT - CA/4 will check if any OLIT asset over weekend & will advise Monly 22. Jole of any possible connection of ITKIN with OLIT.

CA/3 (Glenn Rousseau)

No record of any contact with ITKIN.

C/L Log

Log haven - No contact with ITKIN problem by WH Division on CT/RA. C [illegible] 201-8368c8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# ITKIN, Gerh

Eric Lisenstadt of funding Branch reported
on 1 Apr 68 that he found a piece of paper and
said that subject was once registered asa Duvalier
agent: AH/7/llt checked with State who in turn
checked with Mr. Lanvin of Registration Section
of Justice who said there is no record of Itkin
as ever having been a Durlaer registered agent.
In Jun 63 he registered as a representative of
the Deyore-fignole provisional government in
exile and was to have been paid $50,000 when
this government took power. No further info.

, Retourt

JIMAVE 1409 - *redacted*
::
1 June 1968
Louis Dejoie *redacted* asked Robert Itzin, 10 Park Ave., to
provide *redacted* shortly before Dejoie $200,000 in
Switzerland and financial backing from Itzin in future late
(January 1962, 2 July 1964)- *redacted*

Unbelievable that Itkin gave Dejoie $200,000. In 1961
Dejoie still had some following so that kind of money
he would have upset the apple cart.

## ITKIN, Herr

New York Lawyer and friend of Ambassador and berg
Mayne Carley (formerly of *redacted*) called Dejoie to provide
Itzin and advised the ambassador that *redacted*
Carley did not know what subject's connection is,
Carley is not the source of Itzin's info. Fourzer Harold C.
Dark comments. Date 17 Aug 71.

Article about subject appeared in the New York Times on
13 January 1968. Described as a superb story teller,
fast mover and wheeler. Article filed ini00-9-16.

## HAITI

Subject, under the Foreign Agents Registration Act, is listed as follows:

Foreign agent for Provisional Government of the Republic of
Haiti (San Juan, Puerto Rico). Had various meetings with Mr. Louis Dejoie
who was leader of the Provisional Government. In July 1963 made personal
loan of $5000.00 to Louis DEJOIE (Chairman Provisional's of the Republic of
Haiti - San Juan, Puerto Rico).

IAAA-1779
ADDRESS: 201 Park Avenue, N.Y. 10017
12 Oct 1963
Residence: 33 Greenwich Avenue, N.Y. 11.
Filed: 1112-157

![photo of handwritten notes "C/l+A" and "201-536-818"]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# "HE NEW YORK TIMES, FRIDAY, JULY 19, 1958

## HASINGTON POST
*19 JULY '58*

## N.Y. Jury Indicts
### 6 in Marcus
### Kickback Case

NEW YORK, July 18 (UPI) - A Federal grand jury indicted today six alleged associates of attorney Hertert 11-kin, key figure in the Marcus kickback case, on charges of another kickback conspiracy involving mortgage applications made to the Teamsters' Union pension fund.

U.S. Atty. Robert Morgenthau identified two of the defendants, Salvatore Granelio, 45, and James Piumeri, 65, both of New York, as members of the Mafia. Their codefendants were David Wenger, 57, Great Neck, N.Y.; Joha Kielly, 37, Oyster Bay Cover, N.Y.. and Hyman Levine, 58, of Coral Gables, Fla., and Leonard Russo, 45, of Larchmont, N.Y.

Itkin was not indicted but was named in each of four overt acts cited is the indictment.

## 6 LINKED TO ITKIN F
## INDICTED BY U.S.
Accused of Kickback Piot Fr.
Involving Teamster Furd

By MARTIN TOLCHIN

Six men linked to Herbert Ikin the key Government infolinant in the James Marrus kickback case - were indicted yesterday by a Federal grand jury in an alleged kack back conspiracy involving at teamster union pension fund

Itkin was not indicted, but was named in most of the overig acts charged in the indictment and he appeared to be the fying figure in the conspirayu

Itkin, who was an inforam! for the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, testified in Federal Court that he had paid off teamster officials and criminals to arrange loans from the fund on behalf of individuals and corporations.

Itkin did not name the persons who allegedly received the payoffs. However, Government officials indicated privately that the Indictment and tiree! previous indictments involving teamster pension funds bad resulted from Itkin's information.

Construction Involved

Yesterday's Indictment charged that the six men badi participated in a scheme to get a $1,350,000 mortgage for Big Va'ue Discount Department; Stores, Inc., of 24 West 25th Street, for the construction of three discount centers in Pompano Beach, Cocoa and Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

Robert M. Morgen:han,) United States Attorney, said that the men had obtained a tentative mortgage commitment from the Central States! Southwest and Southeast Areas Pension Fund of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, based in Chicago. Mr. Morgenthau added, however. that the loan never was made

This was the fourth indictment involving the pension fund since May. Three of the

201-836808


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

UNCLASSIFIED INTER'
USE G... CONFIDEN SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
LIGrant/bm
DCS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Bldg.

TO: Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                                     | DATE        |     | OFFICERS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)                             |
| ----------------------------------- | ----------- | --- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. CCS/Funding  Mr. Erich Isenstead | 13 MAR 1973 |     |          | Attached is copy of the letter our New York office sent to Kane in answer to his inquiry re ITKIS. 13 Mar: 1 cy: DC/WH Mr. Goodwin |
| 2.                                  |             |     |          |                                                                                                                                    |
| 3.                                  |             |     |          |                                                                                                                                    |

![photo of Routing and record sheet]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

P.O. Eox 1294
Grand Contral Station
New York 17, New York
February 18, 1966

Mr. E. Kent. Kane
R. D. 1
Kane, Pennsylvania

Dear Mr. Kone:

While in New York on February 15, 1966 on your way to
Florida, you phoned no to inquire about a Now York attornoy.
You will recall that I promised to make some inquirics and
comunicate the results to you. Please be advised that the
gentleman in question is not affiliated or connected with my
colleaguon or myself.

I regret I was unable to convey this information to you
prior to your doparture from How York.

Very sincerely yours,

W. L. Freund

WIFreund:mac


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

UNCLASSIFIED

INTER
USE ONLY

CONFIDEN..AL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Inquiry Concerning CIA Connection of Herbert Itkin, New York Lawyer

FROM:
Lillian L. Grant/js
ELS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Building

TO: (Offices designation, room number, and
building)

|     | DATE RECEIVED       | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| --- | ------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | CCS/Funding         |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
|     | Mr. Erich Isenstead |                |                    | Per our conversation, attached is copy of our file record re: Mr. Herbert Itkin.                        |
| 2.  |                     | 8 MAR 1968     |                    | This office has no record of direct contact with Itkin at any time.                                     |
| 3.  |                     |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.  |                     |                |                    | I Copy to CILPGLOBE 11 MAR 1968.                                                                        |
| 5.  |                     |                |                    | 1 Copy to JC/NH                                                                                         |
| 6.  |                     |                |                    | 1 copy To Mr. Goodwin                                                                                   |

LITUNGION
NO

3051

DATE
5 March 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# CONFIDENTIAL

Director, Domestic Contact Service
C. Delaney
Chief, New York Field Office

177 104-66
15 February 1966

Inquiry Concerning CIA Connection of Herbert Itkin,
New York Lawyer

1.  A call received on the listed telephone of the New York Office on the afternoon of 15 February 1966 concerned claims by Herbert Itkin, a lawyer now practicing in New York City, to the effect that he was closely tied in to the CIA.

2.  The call was made by Mr. E. Kent Kane, R.D. #1, Rome, Pennsylvania. Mr. Kane is a prominent attorney in Pennsylvania, Naval Reserve Officer (USNR 152547), a Republican politician who gave the present Governor and Senator Hugh Scott as references.

3.  Herbert Itkin is a former son-in-law of Mr. Kane's. Itkin allegedly claimed that he had been of considerable assistance to CIA in Haiti and elsewhere. The implication was that he was a trusted CIA informant or agent, not a staff employee.

4.  Mr. Kane contacted this office for two specific reasons:

(a) He wanted to warn CIA that Itkin was not at this time a desirable CIA contact because of doubts concerning his reliability, discretion, ability to meet his financial obligations, and mental equilibrium.

(b) He (Kane) did not wish to proceed any further in pursuing his (unspecified) course of action against Itkin if there were any substance to Itkin's claims. Put in another way, Kane is planning to take some action against his former son-in-law, and he wants to disprove the latter's claims of some CIA affiliation or backing before proceeding further.

5.  Mr. Kane phoned the New York office from a room at the Hotel Drake, New York City, prior to his departure for


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CONFIDENTIAL

-2-

SY 104-66
15 February 1956

Florida. He thought perhaps this office could clear up his problem. Recently, Itkin phoned Kane from New York and put on an alleged CIA staffer, who identified himself only as "Charley" and who dutifully confirmed Itkin's value to the Agency. Kano is suspicious of the whole business.

6. He explained that it would take some time to have our headquarters check this out. Although Kano would have liked an immediate response, he agreed that a written advice to his Kane, Pennsylvania, address within two weeks would satisfy him. Such a reply could be quite cryptic and need not be signed. We assumed that it would originate in Washington rather than in New York. Mr. Kano did not ask for our name and was given no name.

Jay B. L. Reeves

WiFreund:mes

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

FROM: 26

ACTION: C/WA/COC 5 BRID COPY

FILE: VR C/WH 6/C/1

SECRET 292324Z FEB 68 CITE JMWAVE 1469

DIRECTOR

RYBAT JMOCEAN 1N53:61161

REF: JMWAVE 1464 (,N 61103)

FOLLOWING TRACES SUBJECTS LISTED IN PARA 3 REF:

1.  ROBERT DESCHAMPS (201-748945), HAITIAN EXILE AND OWNER OF WESTRADE IMPORT-EXPORT COMPANY, CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA; SUPPLIED HAITIAN EXILES WITH ARMS; ASSISTED BY BUSINESS ASSOCIATE LOUIS DEJO1E (201-242483), CONTACT OF EVLUCID FEBRUARY 1964. (UFGA-14392, 2 MAR 64: UFGA-17300, 17 AUG 64: UFG-6428, 29 DEC 64) LNERGO TRACES INDICATE HE BORN 25 NOV 28, ST MARC, HAITI; ARRIVED IN U.S. AS PERMANENT RESIDENT 28 JAN 60, RESIDED 5010 SAN AMARO DRIVE, CORAL GABLES. GENERAL REPUTATION: GOOD. INTERVIEWED BY LNERGO IN DEC 1961 IN CONNECTION WITH POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT WITH HAITIAN EXILE GROUP, PAIRI. STATED HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF PATR! AND WHILE SYMPATHETIC WITH THE AIMS OF THE HAITIAN EXILES AND DESIROUS OF SEEING A DEMOCRATIC FORM OF GOVERNMENT IN HAITI, WOULD NOT CONTRIBUTE FUNDS OR OTHERWISE INVOLVE HIMSELF IN HAITIAN POLIT ICAL MATTERS. DESCRIBED AS A MAN OF MEANS WHOSE NET WORTH WAS APPROXIMATELY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

PAGE-2 JMWAVE 1469 SECRET
5522.202. LHERGO CLOSED CASE ON 29 DEC 61.

2. ROBERT LEGER: HAITIAN COMMUNIST, SECRETARY FOR
   LOUIS DE JOIE AND ASSOCIATE OF ROBERT DESCHAMPS (WAVE 6104,
   16 DEC 64; EVLANE/4 CONTACT REPORT 3 JAN 66) (201-727690).
   LNERGO TRACES INDICATE HE BORN 16 FEB 30, PORT AU PRINCE,
   HAITI. OCTOBER 1961 RESIDED AT 5848 SW 93RD COURT, MIAMI
   AND WAS TRAVELING SALESMAN FOR WESTRADE, INC. JANUARY 1962
   WAS EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT OF WESTRADE, INC. INTERVIEVED
   BY LNERGO AND STATED HAD BEEN CONTACTED BY HAITIAN EXILES
   BUT DID NOT PLAN TO BECOME INVOLVED WITH THEM. LWERGO CLOSED
   CASE 13 JULY 62. (SISTER, LISA LEGER, ALSO WORKED FOR
   WESTRADE.)

3. LOUIS DEJOIE (201-248483): FORMER HAITIAN SENATOR
   BORN 23 FEB 96, AND PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE. SINCE EARLY
   60'S EXILE LEADER PLOTTING AGAINST DUVALIER, TRAVELS EXTEN-
   SIVELY. ARRIVED MIAMI JULY 1964 AND BECAME ASSOCIATED WITH
   S
   EVLUCID-1. BURINESS ASSOCIATE OF ROBERT DESCHAMPS (WAVE 8541,
   8792, 8916 (1964), UFGA 17308, 21374, 22527). LNERGO TRACES
   INDICATE HE REPUTED TO BE INVOLVED IN HAITIAN ACTIVITIES
   IN OCTOBER 1958 AND RESIDED 16 E. 96TH STREET, NEW YORK CITY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# SECRET

PAGE THREE JMWAVE 1469 SECRET

IN JUNE 1964 WAS INTERVIEWED BY LNERGO AT HOME OF ROBERT DESCHAMPS,
5150 GRANADA BLVD., CORAL GABLES, DISCLAIMED ANY INVOLVEMENT
IN ANTI-DUVALIER ACTS. OCTOBER 1964 WAS IN THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC AS A SALES MANAGER FOR WESTRADE, INC. LNERGO
CLOSED CASE DECEMBER 1964.

4. BUENAVENTURA (SANCHEZ) FELIX (201-130312): DOMINI-
   CAN EXILE, ANTI-COMMUNIST, RESIDED HAVANA, CUBA DURING LATE
   50'S AND WAS STATION SOURCE. ASSOCIATE OF JUAN BOSCH
   (TKH-1383, 1459, 1474, 1484) MINISTER OF EDUCATION DURING
   JUAN BOSCH'S ADMINISTRATION AND LEADER OF PARTIDO REVOLU-
   CIONARIO DOMINICANO (PRD) 1964. APPOINTED AMBASSADOR TO
   VENEZUELA, AUGUST 1966 (CUFG-3558, 4718; SDOM 1537). NO.
   LNERGO TRACES.

5. VICTOR AYBAR - NO STATION TRACES. LNERGO TRACES
   INDICATE FULL NAME VICTOR LEON (AYBAR) DE SOSA; DPOB 15 MAR
   28, SANTO DOMINGO, D.R.; MARRIED TO MARY BOSWELL, AMERICAN
   CITIZEN, FORMER D.R. CONSUL IS CHICAGO. LNERGO HAD ALLEGA-
   TION HE WAS AGENT OF SIM. INTERVIEWED IN JULY 1961 AND
   DENIED ANY SIM CONNECTIONS. STATED HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED
   BY SIM WHILE IN CHICAGO AND THAT WAS THE REASON HE HAD LEFT

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

PAGE FOUR JMHAVE 1469 SECRET

THE D.R. DIPLOMATIC SERVICE. WAS EMPLOYED BY WESTRADE,
INC., BUT RESIGNED AND RETUREED TO OTHER EMPLOYMENT IN
CHICAGO.

6. GUARCA (VE) LAZQUEZ - NO STATION TRACES; NO LAER 60
   TRACES.

7. COL (7) WILLIAM BOND: POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH
   MAXWELL WILLIAM BOED (JR.); DPOB: 30 APRIL 21, SAR FRANCIS-
   CO. SUBJECT OF 201-283995 WHICH NOT AT STATION. POA
   REQUESTED 7 SEPT 60 WHEN HE WAS PROCUREMENT OFFICER AT
   THOMPSON-CORNWALL INC., CORSTRUCTION COMPANY IN GUATEMALA.

POA GRANTED 29 SEPT 60; LATER CABCELLED. NO SUBSEQUENT
RECORD AND NO LEERGO TRACES.

8. JMWAVE FILES COSTAID FOLLOWIGG ITEN OF HERBERT
   ITKIN: LOUIS DEJOIE PROPOSED HERBERT ITKENS (SIC), 103 PARK
   AVE., NEW YORK, AS POSSIBLE CONTACT FOR FURDS AGAINST
   DUVALIER. DEJOIE STATED ITKENS PREVIOUSLY GAVE DEJOIE
   $289,000 AND COULD PROVIDE ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL BACKING SOME
   FUTURE DATE. (WAVE 8792, 2 JILLY 64)

9. JMWAVE FILES CONTAIN FOLLOWING IIDBITS OF BARBARD
   (ALSO BERNARD) COLLIER; WAS OCCASIONAL CONTACT OF ANCARBOB-1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

PAGE FIVE JIMAVE 1469 SECRET

IN 1964-65. HAD SERIES OF EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEWS WITH FIDEL
CASTRO IN SUMMER 1964, COMMENTED UPON IN WAVE 8640,
17 AUGUST 64. WORKED FOR NEW YORK HERALD TRIBUNE AT THAT
TIME. DENIED CUBAN VISA IN FALL 1965. ALLEGEDLY WROTE
REPORT ON FOREIV PROCUREMENT IN U.S. OF T-28 AIRCRAFT
CRITICAL OF WOFIRM AND LHERGO IN 1966. THIS DOCUMERY WAS
OFFERED FOR SALE TO A STATION CONTACT BY LOCAL HOTEL
OPERATOR, BILL THOMPSON IN OCTOBER 1966; BO OFFER WAS HADE
AND MATTER DROPPED.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

DEPT OF STATE DOCUMENT OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF
PROTOCOL
DATE: 30 JUNE 1966
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL DELEGATION TO THE
INAUGURAL CEREMONIES AT SANTO DOMINGO, D.R.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE DOCUMENT

REGISTRATION STATEMENT (REGIS. NO: 1774

NAME OF REIGSTPANT: JEAN ANTOINE MAX FOLTE, AKA
MAX FOLTE

DATE: NOT LEGIBLE

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 4 AUGUST 1964

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: LOUIS DEJOIE

FBI FILE NO: 105-31661 (NEW YORK)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# SECRET

ROUTING

FROM: JIWAVE 201-240483

ACTION: WH 8

INFO: DCP, SCO 6, CA 2, CA/0 4, FI, FI/INT 2,RH/SA 8, VPDA

SECRET Q321832

DIR INFO PRIN CITE WAVE 8792

DYVOUR PBRUMEN

REF: WAVE 8541 (IN 15961)

1. DEJOIE LEFT 30 JUNE 64 FOR VISIT NEW YORK AND TALK JOAQUIN.

BALAGUER RE LATTER'S COLLABORATION DEJOIE OPERATIONS AGAINST HAITI.

WILL PROBABLY VISIT WASH BEFORE RETURN MIAMI. PRIOR LEAVING, DEJOIE

JOINED FORCES WITH EVLUCID-1. UNTIL DEPARTURE, DEJOIE AND EVLUCID-1

WERE PLANNING ORGANIZATION OF HAITIAN GOVT FOLLOWING TAKEOVER BUT STILL

NOT SUCCESSFUL IN MUSTERING WHEREWITHAL MOUNT INVASION. (SOURCE:

UOAMBER-3 AND UOAMBER-6 COMBINED.)

2. DEJOIE SAID HE MET ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO IN SDOM EARLY JUNE AND

CLAIMS GUTIERREZ SAID HE HAD CUBAN EXILE ARMS CACHED IN IGUANA ISLAND

BUT USE OF ARMS FOR DEJOIE FORCES NOT POSSIBLE WITHOUT KUBARK APPROVAL.

DEJOIE GETTING SAME STORY OTHER CUBAN EXILE GROUPS. (SOURCE: 201-240483

D 36-124-25/3

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

UCAMBER-6, 29 JUNE.)

3. ON 1 JULY E-1 CONTACTED BY ELISEO GOMEZ, BUSINESS PARTNER OF TEOFILO BABUN, CUBAN SHIPPING MAGNATE WHO NOW OPERATING IN MIAMI AND PROBABLY INVOLVED CONTRABAND ACTIVITIES. GOMEZ TOLD E-1 THAT GOMEZ REPRESENTED GROUP WHO ABLE TO HELP E-1 IN OPS AGAINST HAITI AND WOULD COLLABORATE IN RETURN FOR HAITIAN BASES. E-1 ASKED UOAMBER-3 OPINION GOMEZ, WAS TOLD THAT HE BUM AND DEALING WITH GOMEZ GROUP SURE TO END IN FAULURE IN VIEW FACT BABUN AND COMPANY AFTER MONEY ONLY AND WITHOUT SCRUPLES. WOULD PROBABLY LEAD E-1 ON FOR ADVANCE ON ARMS, THEN NOT DELIVER MID-STREAM. (SOURCE: U-3 FROM E-1, 1 JULY).

4. CONTACTS PROPOSED BY DEJOIE FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE INCLUDE HERBERT ITKENS, 103 PARK AVE., NEW YORK, IN EFFORT OBTAIN FUNDS FOR ANTI-DUVALIER OPERATION. (DEJOIE SAYS ITKENS PREVIOUSLY GAVE DEJOIE $200,000 AND MAY PROVIDE ADDITIONAL BACKING SOME FUTURE DATE.) DEJOIE ALSO PLANNING APPROACH EDWARD JOSEPH, 17 BATTERY PLACE, NEW YORK. (JOSEPH APPARENTLY LEGAL COUNSEL FOR BALAGUER AND DIEGO BORDAS.) WILL PROBABLY ATTEMPT OTHER CONTACTS MIAMI AREA ON RETURN. (SOURCE: UOAMBER-6).

> SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
IN DISCUSSING FINANCIAL SUPPORT HAITIAN OPS DEJOIE SAID EX-DOM
GEN LUIS REINISO TRUJILLO PASSED DUVALIER $373,000, LATER GAVE
ADDITIONAL $148,888 FOR DUVALIER PROTECTION TRUJILLO CLAN. DEJOIE
DID NOT REVEAL WHEN FUNDS PASSED BUT SAID USED BY DUVALIER FOR PURCHASE
WEAPONS IN EUROPE. (SOURCE: UOAMBER-3, 28 JUNE.)
SECRET

C/S COMMENT: * GAVE SUMMARY DEJOIE ACTIVITIES FOR 24 AND 25 JUNE 64.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

FRI DOCUMENT

DATE: 19 FEBRUARY 1964

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: JEAN ANTOINE MAX BOLTE

FEI FILE NO: 97-1576 (NEW YORK)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# Chief of Station, Port au Prince

FROM:

Chief, IN

SUBJECT:

Conversation with IDEN-A on 3 October 1963 with WGS fan (Isidro Alias)

1. I called on IDEN-A at the home of his son-in-law in ZRITTAL. IDEN-A remembered me from our previous meeting in May of this year, and his greeting was cordial. He said that he was in ZRITTAL and was going to New York for the purpose of raking the situation of his followers known and to see if he could obtain support for maintaining his activist following in the DR.

2. IDEN-A believes that it has now been proven that no reliance could be placed on any of the Haitian military: EVLUSH/1 is obviously finished; EVLIFE/1 is unwilling to act without positive guarantees of CDYCEE support; Colonel Arrand is able but weak; and General Foucicault lacks courage. Colonel Biambi is a good man but is being supported by the Dominican government. If anything effective is to be done, it must be done through non-military personalities. Only a national leader who has the support of the people can do anything effective. Had he been in charge of the EVLUSH/1 effort, the peasants would have rallied to the invading forces, but they will not do so to a force under the command of a military man.

3. IDEN-A's camp is still in existence in the DR and contains about 70 men at present. Among these are EVLUTE/4 and Henri Clermont. He said that EVLUTE/4 is able but somewhat erratic and he (IDEN-A) fears that he would accept support from any source including the Communists, though he knows that EVLUTE/4 is not himself a communist. He likewise mistrusts the EVLUTE group because it's leadership is too far to the left. Again, he does not believe that the members of EVLUTE are themselves Communists, but they attempted to obtain support from Mexican Communists.

4. IDEN-A concerned at the moment in obtaining support to enable him to continue feeding the men in his camp. He said that he has been informed that the former followers of EVLUSH/1 are now flocking in, thus placing an intolerable burden on his slim resources. He needs a few thousand dollars for food supplies and hopes to get some help in New York from CARE or some other philanthropic organization.

5. IDEN-A regrets the overthrow of the Bosch government. He says that he is aware of Bosch's shortcomings as an administrator, but that he had the interests of the Dominican Republic at heart and had demonstrated his sympathies for IDEN-A and his followers. Nevertheless,

CONTINUED201-240453
11 OCT 1933
9 October 1963


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

COORDINATION OF
DISPATCH
SEC A.T
INFO 607

- believes that he will be able to have a friendly relationship with the people. He has an appointment to see Ambassador Jese and hopes to obtain his support. He also is a close friend of and believes this will stand him in good stead. He thinks that the new government must be recognized within 60 days.

6. He has received some aid from PATRIE friends and from Cuban and Dominican private individuals. He did not further identify them other than to say that they were not the same persons who had supported EVLUSH/1 who had been counting on the support of Masferrer. This support had not been forthcoming due to the fact that certain of the Haitians and Cubans that Masferrer was supposed to provide, refused to work with Masferrer. IDEN's Cuban supporters' aim is to use Haiti as a base against Cuba. He agrees this should be done.

7. IDEN-A is certain that Garrido informed EVHAYA of EVLUSH/1's plans. He said that Garrido was greedy and would take money from any source.

8. IDEN-A says that ODYOKE plans to send a new ambassador to Haiti will greatly strengthen the government. He said this fact is known and has caused considerable disappointment among exiles. (I made no comment on this.)

9. IDEN-A had wanted to bring these matters to the attention of IDEN-B. He has no selfish ambition. In outlook, he is a Catholic and a capitalist who wants to do what he can for his country. This is his sole reason for wanting to be President. I explained that his views would be made known to IDEN-B and other interested senior officials. IDEN-B regretted not being able to talk to him personally, but was prevented from doing so at present due to the many demands on his time caused by the present critical situation in the Caribbean.

10. Car parting was cordial and IDEN-A said that when he returned to the DR in the next few days, he would be glad to establish contact with one of my associates should we desire to do this. I told him that should it be necessary to get in touch with him, the person chosen would identify himself as my friend.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Fort au Prince

IDENS (U/S/C)

CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO.
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 21 AUGUST 1963

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: : PIOS DEJOIE - REGISTRATION ACT - HAITI

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 6 AUG 63

TO • DIRECTOR

FROM • DODS

ACTION: WH 8. (WH & IW NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1715 6 AUG 5P)

INFO : DCI, D/DCI, DDP, ADDP, SOD 6, DODS/L, DODS, CA 2 CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/04, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT, IM, DD/1, AD/CI 2, RF2

PRITY DIR CITE DODS 0466

INTEL

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. WUARMOR/1 WHO RECEIVED HIS INFORMATION BY PHONE ON 6 AUGUST 1963 FROM ARTHUR HAAS, PRESIDENT OF CARIBBEAN MILLS, CWNER OF THE BIGGEST FLOUR MILL IN HAITI WHO RESIDES IN DALLAS. HAAS OBTAINED THIS INFORMATION ON 6 AUGUST FROM HERBERT ITKIN, A NEW YORK CITY LAWYER WITH THE FIRM ITKIN, ROBERTS, AND GREENBAUM. ITKIN TOLD HAAS THAT HE REPRESENTS LOUIS DEJOIE, ONE OF THE HAITIAN EXILE LEADERS, AND GAVE, HAAS TO UNDERSTAND THAT THIS INFORMATION COMES FROM DEJOIE. ITKIN TOLD HAAS THAT, BECAUSE ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILES ARE NOW WORKING TOGETHER, HE REPRESENTS ALL OF THE EXILES AS WELL AS DEJOIE. HAAS TOLD WUARMOR/1 THAT CARIBBEAN MILLS WOULD BE WILLING TO CONTRIBUTE TO SUPPORT THE INVASION OF HAITI IF IT LOOKS AS THOUGH THE INVADING FORCE WILL SUCCEED IW COMMENT.

> NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
> TO PORTION OF THIS CASLE HAS BEEN
> MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING
> BALMASE Y THE ACTION UIT

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
|     |     |     |
|     |     |     |

RELEASING IWO:

Csin 36-1-6

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
|     |     |     |

TDCS PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET

PAGE 2 IN 94397

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

AND IF ALL OF THE OTHER COMPANIES CONCERNED CONTRIBUTE. WUARMOR/1 HAS ASKED DODS WHETHER KUBARK WOULD ADVISE THAT HIS COMPANY CONTRIBUTE ALSO. LODS UNDERSTANDS KUJUMP DALLAS OFFICE RECEIVED SIMILAR AND AMPLIFIED REPORT FROM HASS DIRECTLY AND THAT THIS REPORT HAS BEEN PASSED BY KUJUMP TO HQS BY PHONE. HQS MAY PREFER DISSEM AS FROM HAAS ONLY AND OMIT WUAPMCR/1. REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD CONTROLLED DISSEM. HAITI SUBJ: HAITI INVADING FORCE
DOI: 6 AUGUST 1963 PADA: OMIT PLACE ACQUIRED 6 AUGUST 1963
APPR: DEFER HQS. UWC-22 SOURCE: AMERICAN BUSINESSMAN WITH INTERESTS IN HAITI (F) FROM A SECOND AMERICAN BUSINESSMAN WHO OBTAINED THIS INFORMATION FROM HERBERT ITKIN, NEW YORK ATTORNEY WITH THE FIRM OF ITKIN, ROBERTS, AND GREENBAUM WHO SAID THAT HE REPRESENTS LOUIS DEJOIE AND ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILE LEADERS. ITKIN GAVE THE IMPRESSION THAT LOUIS DEJOIE IS HIS SOURCE FOR THIS INFORMATION.

IW COMMENT:

RELEASING IWO DATE DISTRIBUTED BASED ON LIAISON:

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

*This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, USC Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.*

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

REPORT NO. TDCS

SUBJECT

DATE DISTR.

DATE OF INFO.

PRECEDENCE

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.

REFERENCES IN 94397

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. THE FORCE INVADING HAITI ON 6 AUGUST 1963 REPRESENTS ALL OF THE HAITI EXILES AND IS NOT REPRESENTATIVE ONLY OF THOSE ASSOCIATED WITH LEON CANTAVE. ACCORDING TO LOUIS DEJOIE, HAITIAN EXILE LEADER THE PRESIDENT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES SOME TIME AGO ARRANGED THAT ALL OF THE HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS SHOULD ACT TOGETHER AS ONE BODY.

2. THE FORCE IS COMPOSED OF 500 ARMED MEN RATHER THAN THE 250 FIRST REPORTED BY THE PRESS. THE GROUP HAS 1500 ARMED MEN STANDING BY. (FIELD COMMENT. WHERE THE GROUP IS STANDING BY IS NOT STATED.)

CONFIDENTIAL

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

![group 1 distribution dissemination controls and classification markings]

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR CBS CO

STATE/DIR

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

FORM 1Ka OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
TDCS
N 04297
PAGE 2

3. THE FORCE MUST RAISE U.S. $250,000. IN ORDER TO MAKE THE INVASION SUCCESSFUL. HALF OF THAT AMOUNT HAS ALREADY BEEN RAISED IN EUROPE.
   HERBERT ITKIN, A NEW YORK ATTORNEY REPRESENTING LOUIS DEJOIE AND OTHER HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS, IS PHONING AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN IN AN ATTEMPT TO RAISE THE OTHER HALF.

END.OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
COL. NUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

STATE DEPT DOCUMENT - MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION

DATE: 22 MAY 1963

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: VIEWS OF HAITIAN OPPOSITION LEADER LOUIS DEJOIE

FILE NO: 819192


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

DEPT. OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION REPORT

DATE: 16 MAY 1963

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL - NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SUBJECT: HAITIAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE

REPORT NO: 2231011563 (Puerto Rico)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET

NOTE: SPE INSTRUCTION. ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE OR PRINT

# 201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RID/201 Section ROOS UA-20 Tube Address DD-6 Date 16 July 1967

FROM: Nass Office Posn Phone Tube Address EE-5

| 1. TYPE ACTION | 2. FILE RESTRICTED | 3. PERMANENT CHARGE |
| -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------- |
| OPEN           | YES                | YES                 |
| AMEND          | NO                 | NO                  |
| CLOSE          |                    |                     |

4. TRUE NAME

(Last)

(First)

(Middle)

5. 201 NO. 936569

6. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (see Instructions, item 6)

(Last)

(First)

(Middle)

7. SEX  8. DATE OF BIRTH 9. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 10. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
   M F

11. CITIZENSHIP 12. OCCUPATION (clear text) Lawyer OCC. CODE 13. SWL 14. 01 CODE

15. DOCUMENT SYMBOL & NUMBER 16. DATE 3 Jan 1967 16. RESIDENCE

17. COMMENTS (text for Index cards)

Recruitment source not indicated. Source in India in 1960s. Partner in law firm of Kahn, Roberts, & Greenbaum

18. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE 19. ACTION DESK CODE 20. SECONDARY DESK CODE

21. INFORMATION ADDRESSEES

22. CRYPTONYM HAND CARRY OR FORWARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE.

23. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTER 201 NO. 936308

FORM 831 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
9-63

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)