14-00000
104-10227-10003
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Methodology:

1.  The portion of the 11 June 1962 tape in question
    was provided to two employees, both of whom are professional
    transcribers and native Russian speakers. They were provided
    with the background of the difficulty, i.e., that previous
    transcriptions of the tape quoted Nosenko as saying that
    he had "also been in the States" and that he had used the
    alias Nikolayev "both in England and 'u vas' i.e., in the
    United States.

2. Mr. Kozlov and Mr. Berest produced a transcription
   which contains no statement of Nosenko's saying he had been
   in the United States. In addition, their rendering of the
   sentence pertaining to Nosenko's use of the alias Nikolayev
   reads, with no equivocation, "both in England and 'u nas'",
   i.e., "in the Soviet Union."

3.  Independently, the same portion of tape was given
    yet another professional transcriber, a native Russian
    speaker. She was given no background whatsoever on the
    problem. Her transcript contained no statement of Nosenko's
    saying he had been in the United States. In addition, her
    rendering of the sentence pertaining to Nosenko's use of
    the alias Nikolayev reads unequivocally as "both in England
    and 'u nas", i.e., "in the Soviet Union."

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)