# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. CS-311/01258-65

SUBJECT Policy Guidance Directives for Cuban Intelligence Representatives in Haiti
DATE DISTR. 4 February 1965

NO. PAGES 6

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64
CS-311/00345-64 *RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce*

DATE OF 1963
INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. June 1964
FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a document which Source provided containing the policy guidance directive for Cuban intelligence representatives in Haiti, prepared by the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencia -- DGI), MA Department. The MA Department no longer exists as such, having been divided into two departments: Illegal Department (Ilegal) and National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional -- LN).

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: HAITI

Priority:

1. Plans of aggression against Cuba.
2. Progressive political forces.
3. Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.
4. Movement for solidarity with Cuba.
5. Strategic information.
6. The Communist Party of Haiti. (Party of Popular Accord.)

Important:

7. Relations with the United States.
8. Internal politics of the country.
9. Social situation.
10. Internal situation of the Armed Forces.
11. The Church.
12. Functions, characteristics, and information on members of the foreign service and the accredited diplomatic corps in the country.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE       | DIA  | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | IWOX | I OCR | FBI | 2   |
| ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | ---- | ----- | --- | --- |
| REPCINCLANT | I&NS |      |      |     |     |      |       |     |     |

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#")

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

|                                          |                 |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| For Distribution See Attached Page       | LX-2307         |
|                                          | NP (AMMUG-1)    |
| CL/LS 12 (for AF/OSI, ACSI, ONI SY, FBI) | CS-311/01258-65 |

TOTALFIE 3, CI 21, RIDAN 1, WIH SA 16(5), SR 1,FI 3 LIAISON &

WH 23(33), AF 8(8), EF 8(10) FE 12(8), NE 7(19)

RRWT
eb


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 1a -

CS-311/01258-65

Hdqrs Dissem

WH/COPS 1 WE/1 1 EE/GNVA 1
WH/PO/A 1 WE/2 1 EE/ZURI 1
WH/PO/B 1 WE/3 1 EE/HAMB 1
WH/1 1 WE/4 1 EE/KAVA 1
WH/2 13 WE/5 1 FE/DJAK 1
WH/3 1 WE/BC 1 FE/MEDN 1
WH/3/V 1 WE/R 1 FE/SURA 1
WH/4 1 Field Dissem FE/TOKY 1
WH/5 1 FE/OKIE 1
WH/6 1 WH/MEXI 1 FE/SEOU 1
WH/R 1 WH/MNTY 1 FE/SAIG 1
WH/MRID 1 FE/KOBE 1
WH/SDOM 1 NE/COLO 1
WH/SA/EOB 5 WH/PIBO 1 NE/NEWD 1
WH/SA/NOB 5 WH/POSN 1 NE/BOMB 1
WH/SA/R 4 WH/KNGS 1 NE/CALC 1
WH/SA/Int 1 WH/PRIN 1 NE/NDRS 1
WH/SA/CI 30 WH/GORG 1 NE/KUWA 1
WH/SA/SO/NS 1 WH/MANA 1 NE/KAHI 1
WH/SJOS 1 NE/DACC 1
CI/Staff 5 WH/SALV 1 NE/LAHO 1
CI/Liaison 1 WH/TEGU 1 NE/RAWL 1
CI/R&A 3 WH/GUAT 1 NE/BAGH 1
RID/AN 1 WH/LAPA 1 NE/BEIR 1
WH/BOGO 1 NE/DAMA 1
AF/1 1 WH/QUIT 1 NE/ALEP 1
AF/2 1 WH/GAYA 1 NE/JIDD 1
AF/3 1 WH/LIMA 1 NE/DAHA 1
AF/4 1 WH/CARA 1 NE/TAIZ 1
AF/R 3 WH/BUEN 1 NE/CAIR 1
AF/CI 1 WH/COBA 1 NE/ALEX 1
WH/MONT 1 WE/BRUS 1
EE/K 1 WH/ASUN 1 WE/COPE 1
EE/SA 1 WH/SAGO 1 WE/HELS 1
EE/BR 1 WH/RIOD 1 WE/OTTA 1
EE/YA 1 WH/CURI 1 WE/ROME 1
EE/H 1 WH/BRIL 1 WE/MILA 1
EE/P 1 WH/SAOP 1 WE/HAGU 1
EE/C 1 WH/BHIA 1 WE/OSLO 1
EE/IIS 1 WH/BEHO 1 WE/LISB 1
WH/LGRE 1 WE/MADR 1
FE/PMI/I 1 WH/RECI 1 WE/BARC 1
FE/JKO/JO 1
FE/JKO/K 1 WH/SA/WAVE 5 WE/STOC 1
FE/VNC/VN 1 WE/LOND 1
FE/R 4 AF/ALGI 1 WE/PARI 1
FE/CI 4 AF/ORNA 1
AF/RABA 1 Liaison Dissem
NE/AA/L&S 1 AF/CASB 1
NE/AA/AP 1 AF/ACCR 1 IE/Canada 1
NE/AA/E 1 AF/CNRY 1 (RCMP) 1
NE/AA/I 1 AF/BAKO 1 IE/British 1
NE/5/P 1 AF/DARE 1 L/WASH/BR 1
NE/6/C&I 1
NE/Intel 1 EE/VIEN 1
EE/SBUR 1
SR/CI 1 EE/CYRU 1
SR/CI/K 1 EE/ATHE 1
SR/RR 1 EE/SLON 1
SR/O/WH 1 EE/BERN 1

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

11/BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 -

CS-311/01258-65

13. The press.
14. Operative data.

Necessary:

15. Condition of the national economy.
16. Governmental structure and functions of its organs.

Essential:

1.  PLANS OF AGGRESSION AGAINST CUBA:

    a. Military pacts.

    b. Operations within the OAS (Organization of American States) and the JID (Junta Inter-Americana de Defensa - Inter-American Defense Board).

    c. Possibilities of a break with Cuba by the countries which have diplomatic relations with her.

    d. Possibilities of isolation through the application of Inter-American Treaties such as the Treaty of Rio and the Punta del Este agreements.

2.  PROGRESSIVE POLITICAL FORCES:

    a. The Party of Popular Accord (PEP), strength, organization, leaders. Information on the same. Programs, ties with foreign leftist political parties. Propaganda methods. Attitude toward the Cuban Revolution.

    b. Other political organizations. Leaders, information on the same, Forces, propaga..da methods, programs. Ties.

    c. Contact and knowledge, reaction to political and economic changes in Cuba.

3.  ATTITUDE OF THE POLITICAL PARTIES TOWARD THE CUBAN REVOLUTION:

    a. Toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

    b. With regard to Cuban-Soviet relations in questions affecting Cuba and world peace.

    c. With regard to accusations that Cuba is a base of Communist aggression against the Latin American countries.

4.  MOVEMENT FOR SOLIDARITY WITH CUBA:

    a. Find out whether the Solidarity Movement has been organized, in what form it functions, who its directors are, etc.

    b. Find out the possibilities for demonstrations of active solidarity that the progressive organizations can offer.

5.  STRATEGIC INFORMATION:

    a. Because of its nearness to our coasts and favorable position for carrying out any kind of action against Cuba, the search must be undertaken for information concerning the

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3 -
  CS-311/01258-65

b. Because of the lack of information to guide the search for concrete data and information, the established principle must be followed of working along the departmental lines, common to all sections of the Department.

c. Notwithstanding what has been previously mentioned, we deem it advantageous to point out several important questions on which work must be begun immediately.

## BASES OF COUNTERREVOLUTIONARY OPERATIONS:

a. Localization of camps or bases of operations of counter- revolutionary launches. Characteristics of the same. Ships encountered in this. Nationality of the individuals forming the crew of the ships, armaments of the same, plans and ob- jectives of their attacks, and date when they will be carried out.

b. Counterrevolutionary organizations which will participate in these activities, elements which will be in charge of the same, names, and functions.

c. Utilization of Dominican elements (Trujillo followers) in this work.

## ARMED FORCES OF HAITI:

a. Organizations of the Armed Forces, units and troops, arma- ments, transport, and bases, commanding officers of the same. Budgetary allotments.

b. Military agreements of a secret nature signed by Haiti with the United States for the Latin American countries. Terms of the same. Established agreements.

c. Utilization of the territory of Haiti for carrying out Latin American army manoeuvres, Dates of the same and armies which are participating. Troops.

d. Military concentrations of any type which are carried out on Haitian territory. Armies, units, and troops. Date.

6. **THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF HAITI.** (PARTY OF POPULAR ACCORD):

a. Attitude toward the Second Declaration of Havana.

b. Attitude concerning Cuban-Soviet relations.

c. Attitude toward the lines followed by Cuba in the national and international political systems.

d. Attitude with regard to the disagreements in the international Communist movement:

In the case of China and the USSR.

In the case of Albania and the USSR.

With regard to Jugoslavia-China-USSR-Albania.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 4 -

CS-311/01258-65

With regard to peace.

With regard to peaceful coexistence.

e. Internal situation in the Party of Popular Accord:

Forces.

Activities,

Disagreements.

Leaders (information on the same).

f. Relations with leftist forces:

Disagreements.

Possibilities of uniting all of the leftist forces.

g. Methods of combat officially adopted by the party.

h. Work of the party in the cities and the countryside, tending toward the creation of revolutionary awareness in the people.

i. Relations of the party with the bourgeois parties.

j. Solidarity work with the Cuban Revolution.

k. Publicity media which the Party organizes.

l. Repression endured by the party at the hands of the Duvalier dictatorship. Status of the party with regard to legal and illegal operations.

m. Relations of the party with the Dominican Popular Socialist Party and the Communist Parties of other Latin American countries.

Important:

7. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:

a. Alliance for Progress, Peace Corps.

b. Relations with North American credit organizations.

c. North American military assistance, role of the American military mission.

d. The North American Embassy. Information on the Ambassador and Embassy personnel.

e. Activities of the North American Intelligence corps.

8. INTERNAL POLICY OF THE COUNTRY:

a. Existing bourgeois political parties: composition, forces, propaganda methods, leaders, inforzation on the same. Programs.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 5 -
  CS-311/01258-65

b. Relations of the bourgeois political parties with the "Yankee" Embassy, the monopolies, and the churches.

c. Political organizations, information on the same, origin, ties, Orientation.

d. Need of collaborators for information.

e. Where the political parties obtain funds.

9. SOCIAL SITUATION:

a. Conflicts of economic origin manifested as racial demands. Leaders, information on the same.

b. Economic and political predominance of racial groups. Relations of these groups with the "Yankee" Embassy. Leaders, information on the same.

c. Worker, student, and peasant organizations. Structure, strength, and orientation. Leaders, information on the same.

10. INTERNAL SITUATION OF THE ARMED FORCES:

a. The armed forces. Structure. Social composition, organizations, equipment. Troops. Barracks or encampments.

b. Coupist (coup d'état) groups within the Armed Forces. Information on Colonel Ornei, his ties, etc.

c. Military relations of Haiti with other Latin American countries.

d. Ideological training of the Armed Forces. Material and reasoning used.

e. Information on soldiers who are in the International Organizations of the JID and U.N. and on the military attachés in the Latin American countries.

f. Restrictive bodies; organization and activities.

11. THE CHURCH:

a. Ecclesiastical Hierarchy.

b. Situation between the native and foreign clergy.

c. Participation of the Church in the internal political life of the country. Governmental opposition.

d. Influence of the Church among the popular sectors; workers, peasants, students.

e. Campaigns of the Church against Cuba, arguments.

f. Relation of the Church with the plans of the United States.

g. Influence of the Church on education in the country.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# S-F-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
- 6 -
  CS-311/'01258-65

12. FUNCTIONS, CHARACTERISTICS, AND INFORMATION ON MEMBERS OF THE
    FOREIGN SERVICE AND THE ACCREDITED DIPLOMATIC CORPS IN THE
    COUNTRY:

a. U.N.

b. OAS and JID.

c. Officials in and from the Latin American countries..

d. Information on the internal political life of the country,
obtained in diplomatic circles.

13. THE PRESS:

a. Information on journalists and the existing dissemination
organs. The possibilities of using the journalisis both in
the country and abroad, for our work.

14. OPERATIVE INFORMATION:

a. Possibilities of illegally penetrating into the country at:
taking advantage of the proximity of the eastern coasts of
Cuba.

Necessary:

15. CONDITION OF THE NATIONAL ECONOMY:

a. North American investments and their influence on the
country.

b. Belgian investments and their influence on the country.

c. Other foreign capital and its influence on the country.

d. Level of unemployment.

e. Exports and imports, levels and characteristics.

f. Characteristics of domestic capital. Economic areas of
major investment, its relationships with foreign capital.

g. Haiti's position with regard to Central American economic
integration.

16. GOVERNMENTAL STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ORGANS:

a. Relations between the Presidency and the Ministries.

b. Information on personages closest to and most influential
with Duvalier.

c. The Congress. The most outstanding figures. Relations with
the Government, the "Yankee" Embassy, and the monopolistic
enterprises.

d. The Judiciary persons holding high positions. Important
laws. Restrictive laws. Relationships between the Judiciary
and other authorities.

e. Information on officials having authority over areas of the
country.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)