14-00000
104-10221-10039 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STURGIS, Frank Anthony

JAN '69-

JAN 67

II of II

201-34225
VOL. V

![text: I APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1996 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF 292339 DIRECTOR 103146
CONF: AF9 INFO: FILE: Morns EUR 8, LA8 DISSEM BY: 0
CIT, EPS/EG 2

TO: IMMEDIATE GENEVA INFO IMMEDIATE KINSHASA, LISBON, PRETORIA
UNINTEL ZIBET V
REF: GENEVA 35610 |IH 417464|(BEING RELAYED KINSHASA, LISBON, PRETORIA)V

1. APPRECIATE REF. STURGIS HAS BEEN PROMOTING A STORY SCILA
   INVOLVING A 2,000-MAN CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE IN ANGOLA, FOR
   SEVERAL MONTHS AND WE EXPECT THAT REF IS A VARIATION OF THE SAME
   THEME. DO NOT ANTICIPATE NEED FOR ADDITIONAL DEBRIEFING BY ZIBET
   OFFICER OR FURTHER CONTACT WITH SUBJECT RCA GY GENEVAY.

INFO
2. SOLICIT ADDEE COMMENTS.V
3. NO FILE. E2 IMPDET.H

ORIG: AF/HC/C (PARKILL X9154); COORD: LA/COG (SPEED); E/IB/P (WILDER); C/AF/HC (KELLY); C/AF/OPS (KANE); AUTH: C/AF (POTTS);
REL: C/E/AS (AITKEN).

LA/COG-SPEED (IN DRAFT)
E/IB/P-WILDER (TELECOORD)
DATE: 29 SEPTEMBER 1977
ORIG: S.PARKILL/SLS
UNIT: AF/HC/C
EXT: 9154
C/AF/HC

C/AF/OPS

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 035769


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 27

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED DDO/DD

SECRET

STAFF PRECEDENC

T 21 17 87 ELAZ 52

PAGE 01

IN 41-7464

TOR: 2920152 SEP 77

GNVA 35610

SECRET 2919122 SEP 77 STAFF Handling with AF DIV.

CITE GENEVA 35610

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE LONDON.

NIACT DIRECTOR

WNINTEL ZIBET

1. ON 29 SEPT 77 AT 1830 HOURS LOCAL ONE GARY VAN DYK, WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS A BRITISH SUBJECT WHO WAS BORN IN JOHANNESSURG, SOUTH AFRICA ON 25 MAY 1936 AND WHO SAID HE IS A LITERARY AGENT BY PROFESSION AND RESIDES AT 62,
   REDKNOLL WALK, CHELSEA, SW-3, LONDON WALKED INTO U.S. MISSION, SUBJECT WHO IS STAYING AT HOTEL AMAT IN GENEVA ORIGINALLY CONTACTED DCM SORENSUN WHO ASKED THAT COS INTERVIEW HIM.

2. SUBJECT GAVE THE FOLLOWING STORY WHICH ADMITTEDLY APPEARS DISJOINTED BUT MAY MAKE SENSE TO AFRICA DIVISION. ONE REASON FOR INCOHERENCY IS THAT SUBJECT WAS CONCERNED ABOUT THE STORY LEAKING TO OUTSIDERS I.E. THE PRESS AND WAS VERY RETICENT ABOUT NAMING NAMES OR DATES:

A. IN JUNE 1977 FRANK STURGIS (PRESUMABLY SAME PERSON OF WATERGATE FAME) COME TO LONDON AND CONTACTED AN UNIDENTIFIED MEMBER OF FNLA. THROUGH LATTER, STURGIS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

T 211787 EIAC52 PAGE 02 IN 417464
TORI 292015Z SEP 77 GNVA 35610

HOPED TO MEET HOLDEN ROBERTO, SUBJECT LEARNED OF THIS APPROACH AND SINCE SUBJECT SAYS HE IS A CLOSE FRIEND AND SUPPORTER OF DANIEL GIPENDA, HE PUT STURGIS IN TOUCH WITH VICTOR FERNANDEZ. SUBJECT SAYS THAT AT THAT TIME HE DID NOT KNOW WHO FRANK STURGIS WAS.

B. VICTOR FERNANDEZ WAS IDENTIFIED AS ONE OF THE PERSONS INVOLVED IN THE ABORTIVE COUP OF MAY 1977 IN ANGOLA. STURGIS TOLD FERNANDEZ THAT HE REPRESENTED A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES AND WAS IN A POSITION TO MAKE AVAILABLE 2000 ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS WHO WOULD GO TO ANGOLA TO PARTICIPATE IN ANOTHER COUP TO OVERTHROW THE CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME.

C. STURGIS AND FERNANDEZ REPORTEDLY SIGNED AN AGREEMENT IN LONDON WHEREBY STURGIS PLEDGED FINANCIAL AND MILITARY SUPPORT (ACCORDING TO SUBJECT AFROM SOME LATIN AMERICAN GOVERNMENTS) AND AGREED AS TO WHO THE NEW MEMBERS OF THE GOVERNMENT IN EXILE (I.E. ANGOLA) WOULD BE.

D. GIPENDA WHO AT THE TIME WAS IN LONDON, WAS SUSPICIOUS OF STURGIS BUT WENT ALONG WITH FERNANDEZ' GETTING HELP FROM STURGIS. GIPENDA THEN WENT TO GENEVA WHERE HE HAS BEEN EVER SINCE IN AMAT HOTEL. GIPENDA HAS BEEN WAITING AROUND, ACCORDING

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CABLE SEC DIGSEM BY
PER
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIE
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/BLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
STAFF
RF FILE.
VR.
ACTION
T 211787
El AC 52
PAGE 03
IN 417464
TO R:2920152 SEP 77
GN VA 35 61.0

TO SUBJECT TO SPEAK TO MOBUTU, WHO AS HOS KNOWS IS CURRENTLY
IN SWITZERLAND.SUS JECT SAID THAT THE GIPENDA MOBUTU TALK
WILL TAKE PLACE IN NEXT FEW DAYS.

E. MEANWHILE GIPENDA AND SUBJECT AND POSSIBLY OTHERS HAVE RUN
UP A 60.023 FRANC (US$ 25,222) HOTEL BILL AT AMAT HOTEL AND
EVIDENTLY THE HOTEL MANAGEMENT PLANS TO CALL THE POLICE IN
THE NEXT DAY OR SO IF BILL IS NOT PAID.

F. SUBJECT BROUGHT WITH HIM A FILE OF XEROXED DOCUMENTS
IN A LOOSE LEAF NOTEBOOK CHE FLEETINGLY
EXHIBITED. THERE WERE SEVERAL PHOTO'S OF SUBJECT IN
CAMOUFLAGED JUNGLE DRESS IN A JUNGLE, A PHOTO OF A PERSON
SIMILARLY DRESSED WHUM SUBJECT IDENTIFIED AS FERNANDEZ AND
LISTS OF EQUIPMENT AND OTHER MATERIAL WHICH SUBJECT SAID WAS
SENT BY SOVIETS TO CUBAN FORCES IN ANGOLA ACCORD ING
TO SUBJECT, THIS INTELLIGENCE WAS SENT OUT BY MPLA MEMBERS
STILL IN ANGOLA.

G. SUBJECT SAID THAT ANOTHER COUP AGAINST ANGOLAN GOVERNMENT
IS CURRENTLY BEING PLOTTED AND, IF SUCCESSFUL, PLOTTERS WANT
GI PENDA TO BE THE NATIONAL LEADER AND NOT HOLDEN ROBERTO.

SUBJECT APPEARS STRONGLY ANTI-HOLDEN ROBERTO AND SAVIMBA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

T 211787 E1A052 PAGE 04 IN SI 7464
TORI 292015Z SEP 77 GNVA 35610

H. SUBJECT DID NOT MAKE ANY PITCH FOR MONEY OR ANY OTHER REQUEST
BUT SAID HE WOULD LIKE SOMEONE FROM WASHINGTON WHO WAS FAMILIAR
WITH ANGOLAN MATTERS TO COME TO GENEVA SOONEST TO SPEAK WITH
GIPENDA IF WE WANTED TO LEARN MORE.

3. IN RESPONSE TU COS QUESTION, SUBJECT SAID HE WAS NOT A
   MERCENARY BUT HE WANTED AS A FORMER SOUTH AFRICAN TO SEE
   CURRENT ANGOLAN REGIME THROWN CUT ALONG WITH THE CUB ANS. IN SPITE
   OF SUBJECT'S STATEMENT THAT HE DOES NOT WANT ANY MONEY OR DID HE
   COME TO MISSION TO SELL INFORMATION, IT IS DEVIOUS SUBJECT AND
   GIPENDA ARE OUT OF MONEY. SUBJECT WENT TO EXCEPTIONAL LENGTHS TO
   BE ASSURED THAT ABOVE INFORMATION WOULD NOT LEAK, HE APPEARS TO BE
   A VERY WELL-EDUCATED, COHERENT, SOFT-SPOKEN INDIVIDUAL IN SPITE
   OF THE FOREGOING STORY. HE IS ABOUT 6 FEET THREE INCHES TALL,
   216 POUNDS, DARK BROWN HAIR WORK STYLISHLY LONG, LONG FACE, CLEAN
   SHAVEN. SMUKES ERITISH CIGARETTES, AND SPEAKS WITH EITHER A SOUTH
   AFRICAN OR AUSTRALIAN ACCENT.

4. COS TOLD SUBJECT THAT HE WOULD PASS ALONG SUBJECT'S STORY
   BUT IT WAS HARDLY LIKELY THAT ANYONE WOULD COME FORWARD TO PAY
   A $25,000 HOTEL BILL, COS SAID HE HAD HEARD OF FRANK STURGIS BEFORE
   AND IT APPEARS THAT HE MAY HAVE SOLD FERNANDEZ AND SUBJECT A BILL.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CABLE REC DISSEM BY:

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIB:

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:

SECRET

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY REFILE/REPLOTTED:

ACTION UNIT:

FILE: VR

ACTION:

T 211787 El AC52
IN: 417464
PAGE 05-05
GNVA 35618
TOR: 292215Z SEP 77

OF GOODS, NO COMMITMENTS OR ANY PROMISES WERE MADE TO SUBJECT NOR
DID SUBJECT ATTEMPT TO ASCERTAIN COS'S IDENTITY OR NATURE OF HIS
WORK.

5. WOULD APPRECIATE ASAP HCS EVALUATION OF SUBJECT 'S
   STORY AS SKETCHY AND DISJOINTED AS IT SOUNDS. IF
   HQS HAS AF DIVISION OFFICER IN NEARBY COUNTRY WHO FAMILIAR
   WITH ANGOLA, ADVISE IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO SEND HIM TO GENEVA
   FOR FURTHER DEBRIEFING OF SUBJECT.

6. FILE DEFER.

E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

14 June 1976

SUBJECT: LORENZ, Llona Marita

1. As the result of an article on Subject in the 13 June 1976
   New York Daily News, LVOG was asked to do a file check to determine
   whether Subject was ever connected with the Agency. According to
   a LA/COG Desk check, IP trace, CI/OA and Security Office check, LW/NZ
   has never been employed by the Agency. Of interest, however, is the
   fact that her sister, Val eric LORENZ, was granted a CSC on 14 July
   1955, initiated by Finance Division, as a witting employee. At
   that time Valerie was an employee of the National Pank of Washington.

2. There are several references, sourced to the FBI and ICD.
   LORENZ is a self-admitted former girl friend of Fidel CASTRO. She
   claims that she met Fidel while on a trip to Cuba with her father,
   Captain of the North German Lloyd Line, in February 1959, became
   infatuated with Fidel and stayed in Cuba. She served as Fidel's
   mistress and came to the U.S. with Fidel's party in April 1959. She
   learned at that time that she was pregnant by him. Marita returned
   to Havana a short time thereafter and hadia miscarriage. She claims
   that she was drugged and taken to a hospital where'an abortion was
   performed. Pecause of Fidel's reaction to the pregnancy, she turned
   against him. LORENZ returned to the U.S. from Cuba on 9 December 1959.
   Because of the bad abortion operation performed on LORENZ in Cuba
   in September 1959, LORENZ was-operated-on-by a Dr. Hanniar on 20-
   January 1960 at the Roosevelt Hospital in New York City.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

3. It is said that LORENZ appeared on the Today's Show on 14
   June 1976. She reportedly made the statement that she was associated
   with Frank STURGIS, and that she had placed some poison pills in
   her face cream for the purpose of assassinating Fidel. A 24 April
   1961 FBI document states that on 8 January 1961 LORENZ, STURGIS, Alex
   RORKE wero to meet that evening and attempt a unity meeting of
   anti-Castro Cubans. The unity meeting was sponsored by Luis CONTE
   Aguero, one of the leading anti-Castro Qubans. I have uncovered nothing
   to date concerning an assassination attempt (in this connection.)

Chris Hopkins
LA/COG/CIOS

CC: to Bill Sturbitts for showing to the IG

N.B. COMMENT by Al September 1977: Note recent traces that were
sent to the DR on CONTE and allegations that he might have been
(might be) a Cuban agent.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ INTERNAL
USE ONLY ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ SECRET

# PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

SUBJECT:
Frank Sturges

REQUEST NUMBER:
76-P-1062.

FROM:
C. Cass
O/DIO/PIC

HT-1

DATE SENT:
1 Dec 76

TO: (Office designation, room number, and building)
DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment. Draw a line across column after each comment)

1. OS0790

2. SAIL/ATEL / JM
   HT-3
   30 May
   Hold til Jan
   Per our conversation,
   we must answer this
   request even though we
   are in litigation with
   him. This has already
   been done in the case of
   Henson, Barnes & Senez,
   with whom we are in
   court in SWP. Ideally,
   we wish IPS to coordinate
   any outgoing response
   to the requester with
   OGC in cases like this.

[] No record of subject(s)

[] No info identifiable
with subject(s)

[ ] See attached memorandum

40 docs for possible
release.. Guds 201 file
reviewed

8. 
9. DDO/PIC Attn: CIS
   Tube HT-1 ID4127

10. 
11. 
12. 
RETURN TO:

# PRIVACY ACT REQUEST

INITIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

2555. S.W. 23rd Street P 76-1062
      Miami, Florida 33147
      July 7, 1975

Mr. Gene Wilson
Information and Privacy Coordinator
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Freedom of information request
Notice of charges

Dear Mr. Wilson:

Before exercising my right to a freedom of information request for copies of any and all available (in accordance with the declassification processes stipulated in Executive Order 11652 and its amendment of January 1974) files of records and documents, both computerized and manual reports of my activities under my present and former names and pseudonyms, I hereby request the complete and final estimate of charges for search and duplication services.

As regards the charges for these services, two matters may be worthy of consideration. The first of that is that, given the proper access codes, the execution of a computer search is neither difficult nor costly. And the second is that in light of the controversial nature of my past, a waiver or reduction of charges may conduce to the furtherance of the public interest. I therefore respectfully request that those factors be considered in the making of a decision as to the cost of services.

In compliance with your request for identity verification (pursuant to provisions of the 1974 Privacy Act, section 552, subsections b and d) I hereby swear before a notary public as to my name and former names, my present address, my date as well as place of birth, and my citizenship. Thanking you for your cooperation, I am

Yours truly,

Frank Sturgis
Frank Sturgis

a.k.a.: Frank Angelo Fiorini
Frank Angelo Florint
Frank Florini
Frank Anthony Sturgis
Frank A. Sturgis
Frank Sturgio
Frank Donneliff
Frank Campbell

code names: Federini
Barbarossa
Samson

Born 9 December 1924

in Norfolk, Va.

United States of American citizenship

STATE OF FLORIDA
COUNTY OF DADE

Before me personally appeared Frank Sturgis to me well known and known to me to be the person described in and who executed the foregoing instrument for the purposes therein expressed.

Witness my hand and official seal this 19th day of May, A.D. 1976.

![Signature]
Notary Public, State of Florida at Large

My commission expires 3/7/78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Frank Iturrate
present address:
2713 NE 32nd Street
Miami, Florida 33137

also known as: Frank Iturate- Irurria
Frank Irurria
Frank Iturrate Florim
Frank Iturrate
Frank Iturrate Morino

1936, Jan. 8
Born in Norfolk, Va.
*1936-1962*
resided at 504 28th Street, Germantown,
Philadelphia, Pa.
1943-1945
U.S. Marine Corps Reserve
1945
(Guam Is., S.O. Pacifie theatre)
1965
Honorable discharge -Lemonte Falls, Ore.
1965
Miami, Florida
c.1946-1947
Norfolk, Va. address: Bank St., etc.
Joined Norfolk Police Dept.
attended William and Mary College
also attended Virginia Polytechnic Institute
c.1946-employed as manager of the Virginia
Tavern on East Main Street
c.1949-employed as owner and manager of
The Whitehorse Tavern on East Main Street
c.1949
enlisted in the U.S. Naval Reserve
at the Norfolk Naval Air Station
c.1949...
Honorable discharge
c.1950-1952
U.S. merchant marine travelling to and fr.
Europe
c. 1952
U.S. Army - stationed in Germany
c. 1952-1954
Honorable discharge
c. 1954-1961
entrepreneur of tourist sightseeing in
Virginia Beach, Va.
Cuba-(Sierra Maestra); Miami, Florida;
Mexico; Venezuela; Costa Rica; Guatemala;
Panama; Honduras; Jamaica, B.W.I.
1958: contact with C.I. at US Consulate-
Santiago, Cuba
1959: contact with C.I. at US Embassy-
Havana, Cuba
1959: contact with FBI Hi - Washington, D.C.
1961-1970: Bay of Pigs
C.I.A. control officer Mr. Kent


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

contact with YM and CIa
travel and Business (operation sword) L'alco and Honduras
recinante and allegiance for the Pan-Florida Aluminums Co.
105th St., Miami, Florida
advunture-storgate Office Building
June 17, 1972: moved to Washington, D.C. jail
June-July 1972: Intorgate to trial: G. Gordon Liddy at 1.
January 4, 1973: pled of guilt: ontorad
January 15, 1973: up to Federal Prison Inst. in Danbury, Conn.
Febry 1973: then moved to Eglin Air Force Base
tience noved to Dade County Jail
released on appeal bond
January 1974: salesman for Percy Zuilmant Company, Miami, Florida
1974-1975: salesman for Dolce Isla Respire, Miami, Florida
1975: salesmanager for Continental mg Corp., Miami, Florida
1974-1975: salesmanager for Ident Book Life Company
6660 N.W. 37th avenue
Miami, Florida

Thank you,

Frank Sturgis
Frank Sturclo

STATE OF FLORIDA
COUNTY OF DADE

Before me personally appeared Frank Sturgis to me well known
and known to me to be the person described in and who executed
the foregoing instrument for the purposed therein expressed.

Witness my hand and official seal this 19th day of May, A.D.
1976.

Will Wit

Notary Public, State of Florida
at Large

My commission expires


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Mar 13 53 PM '76
Office of Public Information
Central Intelligence Agency
Langley, Virginia

Dear Sirg:

This letter is a request for any and all available infcortion in your computerized and documented files--in pursuance of the Freedom of Information Act( section 552 of title 5, United States Code), its amendment (Public Law 93-502), as well co the automatic declassification procedures stipulated in Executive Order 11652--appertaining to me and my alleged activities as Frank Sturgis, or Frank Fiorini, or coded references thereto. Thank you for your kind copperation.

Very truly yours,
Frank Sturgis

--formerly, Frank Fiorini


3513 N.E. 3rd Street
Miami, Florida 33167
March 13, 1976

Re: Information Recuent


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

16 AUG

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Intelligence Division

FROM: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Frank STURGIS

REF: CIR-316/01746-77

1. According to a source of the Miami Field Office of the Domestic Collection Division, Subject disclosed to the source the following information concerning plans which allegedly reflect Subject's interest in Africa and Panama in conversations held on or around 5 June 1977. Subject has discussed plans to establish a Cuban Government in exile on Angolan soil with the help of Holden ROBERTO, FNLA. Subject is prepared on receipt of agreement from Roberto to provide food, medical teams and other forms of assistance to the FNLA. Ostensibly, this would be a first step following recognition by Roberto of a Cuban Exile Government. 'This government would then attempt to raise troops and, among other things, capture as many Castro soldiers as possible in order to use them as an exchange or trade instrument. The funds for such an enterprise ostensibly would come from Cuban Communities in Brazil, Nicaragua, Panama, Mexico, Venezuela and the United States. One aspect of the proposed unconventional war is the use of counterfeit Angolan money. Also allegedly involved is planning to secure Angolan aid for Panamanians who oppose Torrijos.

2. Involved in unspecified ways in these plans are the following:

a. Leonell GOMEZ - International Coordinator, Afro-Cuban Committee (appears to be inactive at present; formerly involved in the Cuban Exile Movement).

b. Dr. Alida REINOSO

c. (FNU) SOTOLONGO

d. Merwin SIGALE - Columnist for an afternoon news-paper

![Signature, classification and declassification information]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SUBJECT: Frank STURGIS

e. Stanley TAYLOR - Leeds, United Kingdom; allegedly an associate of Roberto

f. Colin TAYLOR - An uncle of Stanley Taylor

3. The source has expressed an extreme fear of physical retribution should his disclosures become known and a disinclination to convey his information directly to other agencies.

CIR-316/02820-77

![WARNING NOTICE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SURJECT: Frank STURGIS

Distribution

Orig & 1 - Addressee
2 - PCS/LSN
1 - OS/Redman
1 - Case 65889
1 - Info Control
1 - FBI/LSN
1 - LA Division
2 - OSG Chronos

Gene Lacy - 10 August 1977


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET 121930Z MAY 77 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 14096

TO: DCD/HEAD QUARTERS.

TO: CSO (WALKER)

YNINTEL

SUBJ: FRANK STURGIS

REF: MAINWARING/WALKER TELECON OF 11 MAY 1977

1. ROBERT W. MORGAN IS A MIAMI-BASED ADVENTURER AND PEODUCER OF SEMI-DOCUMENTARY MOVIES WHO HAS OCCASIONALLY VOLUNTEERED INFORMATION TO THE MFO. HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH FRANK STURGIS. ON 11 MAY 1977 MORGAN TELEPHONED THE MFO AND IMPARTED THE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING.

2. WITHIN THE PAST FEW DAYS, STURGIS SAID THAT HE (STURGIS) HAD BEEN APPROACHED TO ORGANIZE TRAINING FOR 200 PANAMANIAN DISSIDENTS TO OCCUR, IN COSTA RICA. TRAINING WOULD LAST 30 DAYS AND WILD BE PART OF A LARGER ANTI-TORRIJOS EFFORT. HE PROVIDED NO FURTHER DETAILS.

3. STURGIS ALSO SAID HE WAS NOW ASSOCIATED WITH THE "AFRO-CUBAN COMMITTEE", POSSIBLY A NEW GROUP, WHICH HAS AMONG ITS GOALS, COALESCING CUBAN EXILE OPPOSITION TO CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN AFRICA. STURGIS SAID THE GROUP INITIALLY IS SEEKING 50 MEN FOR SERVICE OF SOME SORT IN ANGOLA AND ZAIRE. IN THIS RESPECT, STURGIS WILL DEPART SOON FOR LONDON AND BRUSSELS.

4. WE SHOULD NOTE THAT MIAMI AREA ABOUNDS IN STORIES ABOUT FRANK STURGIS, OR PURPORTING TO ORIGINATE WITH STURGIS. WE HAVE, HOWEVER, NO REASON TO DOUBT STURGIS ACTUALLY SAID THESE THINGS TO MORGAN.

5. SOME OF MORGAN'S FILM PRODUCTION ACTIVITIES TAKE HIM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 14056 SECRET

TO UNUSUAL PLACES OR LEAD TO UNUSUAL PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS. HE HAS AN OVERRIDING CONCERN THAT HE MIGHT AT SOME POINT BE IDENTIFIED AS A POLICE INFORMANT AND THEREFORE WILL NOT TALK TO THE FBI. HE HAS ALSO ASKED US TO REFRAIN FROM DOING SO IN MATTERS AFFECTING HIM.

6. NONETHELESS, SOME OF THIS SHOULD BE PASSED TO THE FBI. WE CAN TRY AGAIN TO PERSUADE MORGAN TO DEAL WITH THE MORE RESPONSIBLE AGENCY. ALTERNATIVELY, WE WOULD RECOMMEND PASSAGE OF SUBSTANCE AT HEADQUARTERS LEVEL.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET 171500Z SEP 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13523

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

TO: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSA (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

WNINTEL

SUBJ: ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF: DCD/HEADQUARTERS 16628, 1 SEPTEMBER 1976, SAME SUBJECT

ROBERT MORGAN, OWNER, SAFARI SPORT, P.O. BOX 133, NORTH MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, AND VANGUARD RESEARCH, INC., P.O. BOX 312, MIAMI, FLORIDA, ADVISED US THAT FRANK STURG IS APPARENTLY DEPARTED MIAMI FOR WASHINGTON, D.C., WHERE HE INTENDED TO TURN SUBJECT MATERIAL OVER TO THE STAFF OF SENATOR HOWARD BAKER ON 2 SEPTEMBER 1976. STURGIS THEN INTENDED TO GO TO NEW YORK CITY. E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET 241830Z AUG 76 STAFF

CITE DED/MIAMI 13477

TO: PRIORITY DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

TO:
OPERATIONS SERVICES CROUP/OSB (FRENCH) FROM HENNESSEY

UNINTEL

SUBJ: ALBANIAN CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL

REF : HENNESSEY/FRENCH TELECON, 23 AUGUST 1976, SAME SUBJECT

1. THIS IS TO CONFIRM REFERENCED TELECON, ON 23 AUGUST 1976, WE RECEIVED A CALL FROM ROBERT W. MORGAN, OWNER OF SAFARI SPORTS, P. O, BOX 133, NORTH MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, AND VANGUARD RESEARCH, INC., P. O. BOX 312, MIAMI, FLORIDA, IN WHICH HE INDICATED THAT HE HAD HAD A VISIT ON THE SAME DATE BY FRANK STURGIS. STURGIS HAD TOLD MORGAN THAT HE HAD JUST RETURNED TO MIAMI FROM NEW YORK CITY, WHERE HE HAD BEEN INTERVIEWED FOR THE "TOMORROW SHOW" ON NBC. (THIS INTERVIEW WAS SUPPOSED TO HAVE BEEN TELEVISED AT 0100 HOURS, 24 AUGUST, BUT WAS NOT.)

2. STURGIS SAID THAT WHILE IN NEW YORK HE HAD STAYED THE WEEKEND (PRESUMABLY 21 AND 22 AUGUST) WITH MARITA LORENZ, WHO STURGIS SOMETIME AGO PUBLICLY CLAIMED TO HAVE HIRED TO POISON CUBAN PRIME MINISTER FIDEL CASTRO. LORENZ GAVE STURGIS A BOOK CONTAINING CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL THAT SHE SAID SHE HAD STOLEN FROM THE ALBANIAN MISSION IN NEW YORK. MORGAN WAS SHOWN MACHINE COPIES OF THREE OR FOUR PAGES OF THIS MATERIAL, WHICH CONSISTED OF FIVE DIGIT NUMERICAL GROUPS IN SERIES ACROSS THE PAGES. EACH OF THE GROUPS HAD A SINGLE LINE DRAWN THROUGH AS IF A DECODING OPERATION HAD BEEN PERFORMED. STURGIS TOLD MORGAN THAT HE HAS DISTRIBUTED PAGES OF THE BOOK IN VARIOUS PLACES IN MIAMI FOR SAFEKEEPING UNTIL HE CAN TURN ALL OF IT OVER TO SENATOR HOWARD BAKER. TO THIS END HE ALREADY HAD PLACED A CALL TO BAKER'S STAFF ON 23 AUGUST. STURGIS TOLD MORGAN THAT LORENZ HAD GIVEN HIM THE BOOK BECAUSE ONE OF HER MAFIA CONTACTS IN NEW YORK TRIED TO BLACKMAIL HER (FOR SOME REASON UNKNOWN TO MORGAN OR OURSELVES), AND SUBSEQUENTLY BEAT HER SEVERELY AND THREATENED HER LIFE. AS A RESULT, SHE NO LONGER WANTED ANY PART OF THE CRYPTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL IN QUESTION. STURGIS PROMISED TO GET IT INTO OFFICIAL U.S. GOVERNMENT HANDS.

E2 IMPDFT CL BY 01165S

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

23 August 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Call from Jon French of DCD Concerning Frank STURGIS

1.  The following information was provided to Jon French by his DCD Miami offico on 23 August. The information was given to the DCD Miami office by a contact (not identified) on 23 August who obtained it from Oscar FREELY. FREELY is writing a book on Frank STURGIS.

2. STURGIS is to appear on the Tomorrow Show at 2 a.m. on 24 August, which is to bo narrated by Tom Schneidor. STURGIS just recently returned to Miami from taping the show in New York.

3. While in New York STURGIS saw Marita LORENZ and obtained from hor a book which, according to source, appeared to be cryptographic material and seemed to relato to Albania. The DCD sourco saw a "few copies" of what he doscribed as "mathematical matrix" material.

4. STURGIS currently (today - 23 August) is attempting to contact Senator Bakor to turn over the material to him. DCD plans to ask the source to monitor the situation and adviso whether the material in fact is turned over to Baker.

![signature]

201-242256 STURGIS

Chris Hopkins
LA/COG/CIOS

Toll For Bench Port DED send that

ADDO & Phil FENDIG- he will do.

8/23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# UNCLASSIFIED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED: 48
TOTAL COPIES: 11
ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED:
ACTION UNIT: O/LAB
FILE: ClOSINT-2, Cl/82, NOCI
ACTION: elasdle
T 571886
E14903
PAGE 21-01
TORI 150341Z NOV 74

STATE MESSAGE
NC 96053
1245717

P 150322Z NOV 74
FM DIRECTOR, FBI
TO RUEMOC/SECRETARY OF STATE
RUEAIIA/DIRECTOR, CIA
RUEASE/U.S. SECRET SERVICE (PID)
RUEBHJA/ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION
ATTN: CIVIL DISTURBANCE UNIT
AND INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION
AND GENERAL CRIMES SECTION
BT
UNCLAS

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES.

A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE WHO HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFO
IN THE PAST AND IS KNOWLEDGEABLE CONCERNING CUBAN EXILE
ACTIVITIES IN MIAMI ADVISED THAT CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS,
EX-PRESIDENT OF CUBA, AND CAPTAIN EDUARDO SOTOLONGO, DR. F.
FESSER, DR. OTIEZA, SUAREZ RIVA, PAUL POZO, DR. PEDRO ROIG,
EULALIA ARNESTO, ALL PROMINENT CUBANS IN THE MIAMI AREA, MET
WITH WASHINGTON, D.C, COLUMNIST JACK ANDERSON ON NOVEMBER 1,
1974. THE MEETING WAS SET UP BY FRANK STURGIS, WHO SUPPOSEDLY
IS A PERSONAL FRIEND OF JACK ANDERSON. THE MEETING TOOK PLACE
IN JACK ANDERSON'S OFFICE AND IT LASTED APPROXIMATELY 20
MINUTES. JACK ANDERSON WAS FURNISHED WITH A MONCGRAPH WHICH
REFLECTED AN ADVERSE ATTITUDE TOWARDS CO-EXISTENCE BETWEEN
THE U.S. AND CUBA.

CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS WAS THE SPOKESMAN FOR THE GROUP AND
HE ASKED JACK ANDERSON TO HELP THE CUBANS UNITE UNDER ONE
COMMON GOAL, THE LIBERATION OF CUBA. JACK ANDERSON REPLIED
THAT HE WOULD ASSIST CUBAN UNIFICATION IN THE U.S., BUT WOULD
NOT WRITE AGAINST CO-EXISTENCE.

SOURCE ADVISED ABOVE MEETING WAS HELD SOLELY FOR THE
PURPOSE OF OBTAINING SUPPORT OF JACK ANDERSON IN UNITING
CUBAN EXILES IN THE UNITED STATES. NO DISCUSSION WAS HELD
CONCERNING BOMBINGS OR OTHER TERRORIST ACTIVITIES AND THESE
MATTERS WERE NOT ALLUDED TO DURING THE MEETING.

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL 281600Z MAY 74 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 12521

PRIORITY DCD/WASHINGTON

ATINI DCD/OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (HORION)

FROM: MIAMI FIELD OFFICE (HENNESSEY)

SUBJ: FRANK STURGIS

REF:
HORTON/STAHLING/HENNESSEY TELECOM, 7 MAY 1974, JAME
SUBJECT

1. AT 1655 ON 7 MAY 1974 WE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL ON
   THE LISTED LINE FROM FRANK STURGIS, WHO INDICATES THAT HE
   WANTED TO MELT WITH US AS SOON AS POSSIBLE IN ORDER THAT HE
   MIGHT CONVEY INFORMATION OF EXTREME IMPORTANCE TO THE AGENCY.
   HE MENTIONED AT THE OUTSET THAT HE HAD ARRANGED TO MEET WITH
   MATT MACVANE OF THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE AT AN EARLIER DATE,
   BUT MACVANE HAD FAILED TO APPEAR AT THE APPOINTED TIME AND
   PLACE. WE DID NOT COMMENT ON THE SPORTIVE MACVANE MEETING.
   HOWEVER, WE IMMEDIATELY ADVISED STURGIS THAT WE ARE NOT IN
   A POSITION TO MEET WITH HIM. WE SUGGESTED THAT IF HE
   REQUIRED AGENCY CONTACT HE SHOULD DO IT AT THE WASHINGTON
   LEVEL. HE ASKED WHO IN WASHINGTON WE MIGHT CALL. WE
   INDICATED THAT WE WERE UNABLE TO SUGGEST A SPECIFIC NAME.

2. STURGIS THEN SAID THAT HE DIDN'T WANT TO PLAY GAMES AND
   THAT HE WAS PREPARED TO GIVE US HIS INFORMATION OVER THE TELEPHONE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

PAGE 2 PCD/MIAMI 12521 CONFIDENTIAL

HE IMMEDIATELY SAID THAT IT CONCERNED NARCOTICS IN MEXICO AND THAT A NUMBER OF VERY HIGH RANKING PEOPLE WERE INVOLVED. WE TOLD HIM THAT IT WAS UNNECESSARY TO GO ANY FURTHER BECAUSE THIS WAS A PROBLEM FOR THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY, AND SUGGESTED THAT HE CONTACT THEM. HE RESPONDED THAT HE HAS HAD CERTAIN PROBLEMS WITH DEA, BUT HE INDICATED THAT HE MIGHT CALL GEORGE DAVIS, FBI, MIAMI, WHOM HE HAS KNOWN FOR SOME TIME. WE AGREED THAT THIS MIGHT BE AN EXCELLENT IDEA. STURGIS THEN THANKED US AND THE CONVERSATION WAS TERMINATED.

DURING

3. STURGIS WAS VERY PERSONABLE, BUT FRANK, DURING THIS BRIEF CONVERSATION. WE BELIEVE THAT HE UNDERSTANDS OUR POSITION, AND WE DO NOT ANTICIPATE THAT HE WILL ATTEMPT TO CONTACT US AGAIN.

4. THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS MEMORANDUM HAS BEEN PASSED LOCALLY TO THE COS/SH, MIAMI, BY BRUCE MAINWARING.
   E 2 INFOET CL BY CI2658

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

8 May 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Frank Anthony STURGIS (201-242256)

1. This morning I received a phone call from the COS, Miami who advised me that yesterday Frank Sturgis called the DCD, Miami Office, and expressed a desire to meet with one of the DCD officers. Sturgis claimed to have new information on the movement of narcotics through Mexico and other information which he did not specify.

The DCD Miami Office thanked Sturgis for calling and referred him to the FBI and DEA, who would be the most interested recipients of the information he has. Sturgis was very pleasant on the telephone and the DCD people obviously responded correctly.

![signature of WILLIAM C. STURBITTS]
WILLIAM C. STURBITTS

cy to DDO/Narc
Mr. Bolton

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

RE: CUBANOS ICHIDOS
(UNITED CUBANS)
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUNA
NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA

Cubanos Unidos (CU) la a Cuban exile anti-FIDEL
CASTRO organization in Miami, Florida. Its purpose is to
unite all exile groups into a unity organization and begin
military operations against the present Government of Cuba

WILFREDO NAVARRO BEATO is the head of CU, which
organization now maintaing office space at 1996 S. W. Ist
Street, Miami, telephono 642-9741,

On June 9, 1970, MMT-1, a Cuban exile involved
in revolutionary matters for the past six years, advised
that CU recently decided to start selling honds issued
in the name of the Republic of Cuba. The money collected
would be used to purchase arms for proposed military
operations against Cuba.

On June 15, 1970, MM T-l stated that WILFREDO
NAVARRO at that time was claiming that MAURICE FERRE.
member of the Miami City Commission, is assisting hin
Cuban revolutionary activitios, NAVARRO claimed that
about a woek previously, a meeting was held in the FERRE
Building in Miami, and it was determined that CU had
adequato money resources. NAVARRO said that he instructed
TOMAS ARENCIBIA, a leading member of CU, to out his job
and NAVARRO would pay his salary, NAVARRO explained that
ho wanted ARE CIBIA to work on a full-timo basis for CU
Also present at this mooting were three unidentified
Amoricans, one of whom reportedly has a quantity of
Arms stored at his house.

SECRET-NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION
Group 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading_and_
declassification

CELL 10
(5.4) 100-7-14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SE NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION

RE: CUBANOS UNIDOS
(UNITED CUDANS)

On June 19, 1970, MM T-3. another Government agency which conducts Intelligence investigations, advised information had been received that CU recently held a meeting to introduce Americans who are backing their organization, The Americans were FRANK FIORINI and ED KAISER. FIORINI calls himgolf the "Chief of Intelligence Section of Cubanos Unidos".

On July 1, 1970, WILFREDO NAVARRO BEATO appeared at the Miami Office of the FBI with his brother, ROERNE NAVARRO BEATO, and advised as follows:

FRANK FIORINI, an American citizen who has been involved in Cuban exile revolutionary matters for the past ton years, recently signed a unity agreement with. Cl. In this agreement, FIORINI, who represents some independent anti-CASTRO organization, agreed that political unity of all exile groups must be established. FIORINI is not a member of CU as such, holds no official position, and is not in charge of intelligence,

NAVARRO said that a few days previously he returned from Washington, D. C., where again he was trying to obtain United States Government support and backing. He was told that no support.could be given unless it was personally authorized by President RICHARD M. NIXON.

They stated that JORGE CONZALEZ, also known as "Bombillo", who was formerly associated with another ant1-CASTRO organization, was in no way associated with CU. They claimed that CU had no plans to attack a Russian véssel off the coast of Florida, CU had previously said it needed some 57mm recoilless rifles for this purpose but had no intention of attacking a Russian vessel. Announcoments that they were going to do so were made for political propaganda and also to stir patriotic Cuban exiles to become more active in Cuban revolutionary matters.

4. 
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

RE: CUBANOS UNIDOS
(UNITED CUBANS)

BOB RAMEY (phonetic), a commentator on Channel 4 TV, Miami, who will travol with WILFREDO NAVARRO.

WILFREDO NAVARRO, leader of CU.

JORGE NAVARRO, brother of WILFREDO and designated Naval Chiof of CU.

(First Name Unknown) RODRIGUEZ ALONSO, designated Military Chief of CU

GORDON DI BATTISTO, an Italian having Mafia connections.

EDWIN KAISER, reportedly with "U.S. French Legion"

MAURICIO FERRE, reportedly provides financial backing to WILFREDO NAVARRO.

PILIN MENDOZA, a friend of JOSE FERRE,

MM T-5 indicated that it was intended that mercenaries from Corsica would be used.

On July 29, 1970, EDWIN BENJAMIN KAISER, JR., 805 West 30th Street, Hialeah, Florida, advised that he knew no one named DOB RAHEY or (First Name Unknown) RODRIGUEZ ALONSO.
KAISER said that he had previously been in the French Foreign Legion and knows former legionnaires who now live in all parts of the world. Many of these legionnaires would fight as mercenaries if contacted, but at the present time reither he nor CU has any plans to contact these people and does not have the funds to pay them or the military equipment to issue thom. KAISER said that WILFREDO NAVARRO is a long-time friend of Miami City Commissioner, MAURICE FERRE, and the nature of their relationship is business interests.

KAISER advised ho continues to be active in CU

6. 
SECRET - NO FOREIGN DISSEMINATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CHEVE CASA, DOE, ERDF C/E12, 8/11

SECRET 1815422 JUN 70 CITE S/MIAMI 7935 185106201

DIRECTOR

RYBAT TYPIC

1. FOLLOWING IS UPDATE SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS WITHIN MILITANT EXILE COMMUNITY.

2. JOSE TORRIENTE HAS TOLD AMCHALK-1 THAT NEGOTIATIONS ARE WELL ALONG FOR OBTAINING TWO ISLANDS AS TRAINING AND OPERATIONAL BASES FOR EXILES. ONE IS THE ISLA BEATA OFF THE SOUTH COAST OF THE DCIIDICAN REPUBLIC. NEGOTIATIONS WITH UNIDENTIFIED DOMINICANS FOR USE OF THIS ISLAND ARE TAKING PLACE THROUGH THE ARGENTINE CONSUL GENERAL IN PUERTO RICO. TORRIENTE WAS IN PUERTO RICO LAST WEEK. THE OTHER ISLAND WHICH IS BEING NEGOTIATED FOR BY EX-FRESIDENT CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS IS ILE A VACHE WHICH IS LOCATED OFF THE SOUTHERU HAITIAN PENINSULA. TRAIBIBO ACTIVITIES AND RECRUITING FOR A MARITIME AND INFILTRATIO COURSE IS CURRENTLY TAKING PLACE IN THE MIAMI AREA, HOWEVER THUS FAR ALL TRAINING HAS BEEN CONDUCTED UNDER CLASSROOM COEDITIOUS IN PRIVATE HGIES THROUGHOUT THE MIAMI AREA. STATION 18 POSSESSION OF MADY OF THE DAMES OF 10IVIDUALS

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

PAGE 2 M/MIAMI 7935 SECRET

FECRUITED. PLS FORWARD LARGEST SCALE ARMY AMO HYUYOGRAPHIC
MAPS AVAILABLE FOR THESE ISLANDS.

3. THE CUBANOS UNIDOS GROUP CONTINUES TO AT LEAST
   MAKE APPEARANCES CF ACTIVITY. ANSNAP-3 REPORTS THAT FRANK
   FIORINI (201-202256) HAS LINKED HIMSELF WITH THE NAVARRO
   BROTHERS AND GORDON DI BATTISTO. FIORINI CALLS HIMSELF
   "CHIEF OF INTELLIGENCE SECTION OF CUBANOS UNIDOS".
   RECENTLY A MEETING WAS HELD AT DUPONT PLAZA HOTEL TO
   INTRODUCE AMERICANS WHO ARE BACKING THE CUBANOS UNIDOS
   GROUP. THE AMERICANS IN ATTENDENCE WERE FIORINI ARD ED
   KAISER. FIORINI IMPLIED THAT CUBANOS UNIDOS HAS UNITED
   STATES GOVERNMENT SUPPORT. AMSWAP-3 BELIEVES, AS MANY
   OT HER CUBAOS DO, THAT FIORINI AND KAISER MAY BE TIED IN
   WITH MAFIA. SIX MONTHS AGO, ACCORDING TO AMSUAP-3, THE
   SAME GROUP COMED A SUPPOSEDLY NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION IN
   TALLAHASSEE TO AID CUSASS. BONDS BERE PRINTED UP AKO
   SOLD TO LOCAL CETPADIES AND REFUGEES. IT IS APPARAT KAT
   ACRE IS GOIDS 03. IT IS NICOLI POSSIBLE TRIT
   HIBIMAL ELMETS ARE BLECH CBABES
   DES FOR Thaco FAPOSES.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

FILE

PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 7935 SECRE

4. WE HAVE LEARNED FROM AMCSE-5 TIHAT SPECIAL MODIFIED SERTRAM BOATS, 31 FEET WITH 2 EACH MERCRUISER INBOARD ENGINES RATED AT 325 HORSEPOWER EACH HAVE SEEN ORDERED BY HAITIAN GOVERNMENT. THE BOATS ARE ALSO EQUIPPED WITH RADAR AND FORWARD MOUNT AND HEAVY LEAPON. TO DATE ONLY 2 BOATS HAVE BEEN COMPLETED. ANCRUMP-5 LEARNED ABOVE AS RESULT OF HIS CURRENT PROPRIETORSHIP OF A MARINE SERVICES COMPANY, REPORTEDLY, 10 TO BOATS ARE IN OSDER. WHILE NO INFORMATION IS ABAILABLE TO CONTRADICT THE FACT THAT THESE ARE BEING ORDERED FOR THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT, DE SPECULATE THAT THIS MAY BE ACTUALLY FOR CUBAN EXILES. THE PURCHASING AGENT IS JAMES BEYER WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN PREVIOUS PURCHASES FOR DAVALIER

5. FILE 201-290781, 201-242255, 291-239159. GP-1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

R 2424522 APR 75
FM DIRECTOR, FBI
TO RUEADWW/WHITE HOUSE SITUATION
ATTENTIONI MR, JERRY D. JENNINGS
RUEBWJA/ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, CRIMINAL DIVISION
AND INTERNAL SECURITY SECTION
AND GENERAL CRIMES SECTION
RUEAIIA/DIRECTOR. CIA
RUEHSE/U.S. SECRET SERVICE (PID)
RUEHOC/SECRETARY OF STATE
BT
UNCLAS
UNSUBS THREAT TO ASSASSINATE SECRETARY OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER
AND THE PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA
ON APRIL 23, 1975, FRANK ANTHONY STURGIS, SOLDIER OF
FORTUNE AND CONVICTED WATERGATE DEFENDANT, WAS CONTACTED AT
THE LILLY FURNITURE STORE, 1225 N.W. 119 STREET, MIAMI, FLORIDA.
HE ADVISED THAT ON APRIL 22, 1975. SOURCE OF HIS, WHOM HE DE-
CLINED TO IDENTIFY BUT HAD FORMERLY WORKED FOR CENTRAL INTELLI-
GENCE AGENCY, HAD FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION TO
STURGIS-ON A CONFIDENTIAL BASIS.

A GROUP CALLING ITSELF THE LATIN-AMERICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST
LEAGUE, BASED IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, HAD BEEN ACTIVE IN RECENT
WEEKS THE HEAD MAN OF THIS GROUP WAS AN EX-CUBAN LAWYER
NAMED DR. DE CARDENAS. THERE WAS A REVEREND ESPINOSA "INVOLVED
WITH THE GROUP" HE WAS SUSPECTED BY THE SOURCE AS BEINGA
CASTRO AGENT AND WAS SUPPOSED TO BE A FORMER NEW YORK POLICEMAN
WHO HAD WORKED FOR G-2 IN CUBA IN FORMER YEARS.

THIS GROUP HAD REPORTEDLY RECRUITED TWO NATIVE BORN
AMERICANS FROM THE NEW YORK AREA AND SENT THEM FROM MIAMI TO CUSA
SEVERAL MEEKS AGO IN A BOAT ON CLANDESTINE. OPERATION. THEY HAVE
SINCE RETURNED TO MIAMI BUT THE REASON FOR THE TRIP WAS UNKNOWN.
IT WAS ALSO REPORTED THAT DR. DE CARDENAS HAD BEEN ATTEMPTING
TO OBTAIN U.S. PASSPORTS FOR FOUR NATURALIZED CUBAN AMERICANS.
IDENTITIES UNKNOWN. HE WAS ALSO TO TRY TO GET VENEZUELAN VISAS
FOR-THESE INDIVIDUALS.

DURING EVENING MEETINGS IN RECENT WEEKS, THE GROUP HAS DIS-
CUSSED MANY THINGS, WHEN IT WAS REPORTED THAT HENRY KISSINGER
WAS TRAVELING TO VENEZUELA. THE GROUP HAD DISCUSSED VARIOUS FLANS
FOR CREATING SOME SIND OF AN INTERNATIONAL INCIDENT DURING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# PAGE 02

KISSINGER'S VISIT IN VENEZUELA WHICH WOULD TEND 10 DISCREDIT HIM? AND THE PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA.

AS A RESULT OF OF THESE REPORTED_DISCUSSIONS, THE SOURCE HAD BEEN LED TO BELIEVE THAT POSSIBLY THESE PLANS MIGHT RESULT IN AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON KISSINGER WHEN HE WAS VISITING IN VENEZUELA.

STURGIS EXPLAINED THAT THIS SOURCE WAS UNABLE TO FURNISH ANY OTHER DETAILS IN CONNECTION WITH THIS INFORMATION AND NO OTHER MEMBERS OF THE GROUP WERE IDENTIFIED. STURGIS UNDER- STOOD THAT THE SOURCE HAD OBTAINED THE INFORMATION ABOUT THE ALLEGED PLANS FOR CREATING AN INTERNATIONAL INCIDENT IN- VOLVING KISSINGER THIRDHAND. THE WIFE OF A MAN WHO WAS CONNECTED WITH A MEMBER OF THIS GROUP HAD OVERHEARD HER HUS BAND TALKING ON THE TELEPHONE ABOUT KISSINGER'S VISIT τα VENEZUELA AND HAD REPORTED THIS INFORMATION TO THE SOURCE.

STURGIS ADVISED THAT NOW THAT KISSINGER'S VISIT TO VENEZUELA HAD BEEN CANCELLED, HE UNDERSTOOD THAT ALL PLANS "HAD BEEN ABORTED" AND THAT THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE DANGER OR CONCERN, ALTHOUGH NO DEFINITIVE PLANS OF THE GROUP WERE KNOWN, STURGIS UNDERSTOOD THAT THE GROUP HAD ONLY DISCUSSED POSSIBLE PLANS FOR AN INCIDENT INVOLVING BOTH KISSINGES AND THE PRESIDENT OF VENEZUELA DURING SUCH A VISIT IN ORDER TO DISCREDIT UNITED STATES VENEZUELA PELATIONS.

STURGIS POINTED OUT THAT THE CUBAN EXTILES ARE ALWAYS TALKING, CONSPIRING AND PLANNING SOME SORT OF ANTI-CASTRO ACTIONS, BUT IT IS PRIMARILY IDLE AND HOPEFUL GOSSIP AND RUMORS THAT COME TO-NOTHING,

STURGIS STATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE FELT THERE WAS NO IMMINENT DANGER IN THESE ALLEGED THREATS, HE HAD PROMPTLY REPORTED THIS INFORMATION TO AN ACCUAINTANCE OF HIS IN THE U.S. CUSTOMS AGENCY, MIAMI, FLORIDA, THIS U.S. CUSTOMS AGENT HAD ADVISED STURGIS THAT HE WOULD PROMPTLY REPORT THIS INFORMATION TO THE U.S. SECRET SERVICE MIAMI, WHICH AGENCY HAD PROTECTIVE JURISDICTION FOR U.S. CABINET MEMBERS, ACCORDINGLY, STURGIS UNDERSTOOD THAT THIS MATTER WAS BEING APPROPRIATELY HANDLED BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT..

SOURCES FAMILIAR WITH CUBAN GROUPS AND ACTIVITIES IN THE MIAMI, FLORIDA AREA HAVE FURNISHED NO INFO INOF INDICATING THE EXIST ENCE OF ANY GROUP CALLING ITSELF THE LATIN AMERICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST LEAGUE.

ON APRIL 7, 1975. A CONFIDENTIAL SOURIS FAMILIAR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

7-71 M.G. 2/75

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY

STATE MESSAGE

T 966208   EA243   PAGE 03-03

TORI2405342 APR 75   IN56/201

WITH CUBAN COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES AND HAS FURNISHED RELIABLE INFORMATION IN THE PAST, REPORTED AS FOLLOWS:

ON MARCH 24, 1975, REVEREND MANUEL ESPINOSA DIAZ, MINISTER OF THE PENTECOSTAL CHURCH, ACCOMPANIED BY FOUR CUBAN EXILES, BOARDED THE BOAT "WAHININI II" AT KEY WEST, FLORIDA, WHICH BOAT WAS PILOTED BY ANOTHER CUBAN NAMED JOSE CARDENAS. THE GROUP CLANDESTINELY WENT TO THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA AND REVEREND ESPINOSA CARRIED A LIST OF OVER THIRTY THOUSAND CUBANS WHO HAD BEEN UNABLE TO COME TO THE UNITED STATES TO JOIN THEIR RELATIVES. REVEREND ESPINOSA HAD AN INTERVIEW WITH FIDEL CASTRO IN AN EFFORT TO ARRANGE THE LEGAL DEPARTURE OF THESE PEOPLE.

SUBSEQUENTLY, ON MARCH 31, 1975, IT WAS LEARNED IN MIAMI THAT THE "WAHININI II" HAD RETURNED TO MARATHON, FLORIDA, ESCORTED BY THE U.S. COAST GUARD. ON THE SHIP, IN ADDITION TO REVEREND ESPINOSA AND HIS CUBAN EXILE COMPANION, WERE TWO U.S. NEWSMEN AND CAMERAMEN FROM CHANNEL TWO TV, MIAMI, IDENTIFIED AS KY BURTON AND KAPY KAPERMAN.

A COPY OF THIS COMMUNICATION IS BEING FURNISHED TO U.S. SECRET SERVICE, MIAMI.

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

WH/COG 362-74
25 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: DCD Contact with Frank Sturgis of the
Watergate Plumbers Group

Frank Sturgis contacted DCD in Miami recently and requested a meeting. DCD, who apparently did not recognize the name at first, agreed to meet with him.

The DCD meeting with Sturgis has been cleared with George Carey, CIA Legal Counsel, and was cleared with the DDO on 25 January 1974. No specific date for the meeting was given to WH, but it is assumed that the meeting will take place within the next few days.

Orville Bathe
C/WH/COG

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 054555


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)