2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

26 September 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR: Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: John F. Pereira
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: Reconsideration of Release of
"Warrenton" in the Lopez Report

David,

1. The attached memorandum is provided in support of our request that the JFK board reconsider its decision to release the reference to Warrenton Records Center in the Lopez Report (p. 44).

2. We request that this memorandum and attachment be returned to CIA once the Board has completed its deliberations on this issue.

Attachment

![signature of John Pereira]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

OFSS-96-3975
25 September 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Information Review Officer,
Directorate of Administration

VIA:
Deputy Director for Administration
Director of Facilities and Security Services
Chief, Facilities Management Group, OFSS

FROM:
Chief, Warrenton Training Center, FMG/OFSS

SUBJECT:
(S) Warrenton Training Center Cover
Considerations

1.  (S) This memorandum is written pursuant to yesterday's discussion with regard to the release of JFK-related documents that refer to "Warrenton" and/or derivatives of a Records Center. It documents executive-level "evidence" as to why "Warrenton" cover needs to be protected. In brief, significant damage to mission, people, and the very existence of the Warrenton Training Center (WTC) would occur as a result of the second- and third- order effects of any confirmed affiliation with the Agency.

2.  (S) As background, the Central Intelligence Agency has gone to great lengths to protect sensitive missions and prevent identification of covert personnel as Agency employees. The latter is especially profound as the very lives of these employees are often placed in jeopardy at hostile overseas posts. The anonymity provided by cover is essential to their protection. Furthermore, the Warrenton Training Center (WTC) provides the sanctuary whereby Department of State and Diplomatic Telecommunications Service Project Office (DTSPO) personnel can train alongside Agency employees without fear of being "tagged" as working for the Agency.

3.  (S) The cover mechanism itself is very fragile. Per mandate of the cover providers, the National Communications System (NCS), and the Department of the Army, the affiliation of WTC and the Agency, is classified SECRET vice CONFIDENTIAL. WTC

CL BY: 2004977
CL REASON: 1.5 (c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FROM: LOC 5-82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Warrenton Training Center Cover Considerations

cover operates solely on the ability to sustain plausible denial. In spite of previous rumors of an Agency affiliation, categorical denial of such has worked to the point that the media currently refers to WTC as a "Top Secret military installation." In addition, the public-at-large truly believes that WTC is a military installation. Given a generally inquisitive media (one radio station, two newspapers -- all with connections to affiliates in the Washington Metropolitan Area) and recent publicity over a WTC ground water contamination issue, the release of references to "Warrenton" in the JFK-related documents would precipitate an unwelcome focus on WTC. This would lead to the real possibility that cover would be compromised.

4. (S) With the closure of Vint Hill, WTC is the sole remaining federal facility in the Warrenton area. As a result, the affiliation of Agency records or "Records Center," under any ruse, will provide a direct link to the Warrenton Training Center. This will pose severe problems for installation activities. While the Agency Archives and Records Center is located at Station "A," the media frequently refers to WTC in its entirety. Activities at the other three WTC Stations that would be compromised are as follows:

a. Station B serves as the principal training site for the Office of Communications, DTSPO, and the Department of State. However, it also is the site of sensitive activities engaged in by personnel from the Directorate of Operations, the Office of Engineering and Development, the Directorate of Intelligence, and the Office of Technical Collections. It is also a training site for covert employees from all Directorates, to include foreign language immersion for officers assigned overseas. In addition, secret Community-wide conferences are held at this low-profile location. Within the past year, conferences have ranged from the Agency's NOC Conference to the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence to the strategic planning meeting by Community Executives, Ambassadors, and members of the White House Cabinet in preparation for the Bosnian Peace Talks.

b. Station C serves as the Agency's primary transmission site for world-wide communications.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Warrenton Training Center Cover Considerations

c. Station D serves as the Agency's primary receiving site for world-wide communications. It also handles a significant quantity of message traffic for the White House and member organizations of the Intelligence Community on a 24-hour basis. This message traffic is vital to national security preparedness.

WTC's cover allows it to maintain a very low profile. It is that low profile which protects the personnel and missions as described above. Removal of that protective cover, by act or deed, would provide easy targets of opportunity for counter- intelligence activities, terrorist activities, demonstrations, and emotionally unstable individuals.

5. (S) In summary, any affiliation of WTC and the Agency, no matter how insignificant the individual occurrence or document release may seem, has the very real potential to jeopardize lives, disrupt the Agency mission, disrupt world-wide classified message traffic, and, thereby, do irreparable harm to the national security of the United States.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

TO: John F. Pereira
FROM: Brian S. Latell
OFFICE: Rebecca V. Strode
DATE: DCI
SUBJECT: 10/20/97 02:21:49 PM Re: Release Issue/JFK Board

CL BY: 705641
CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
DECL ON: X1
DRV FRM: COV 1-82

Thanks. I passed along to D/EXDIR and EXDIR. The D/EXDIR may want Brian Latell to provide some more background on this issue at the meeting tomorrow.

Original Text of John F. Pereira
Original Text of John F. Pereira

Following is in response to questions raised by the EXDIR:

1. Members of JFK Board:

Chairman: Judge John Tunheim (Federal District Court, Minnesota)

Four other members: Henry Graff; History Professor Emeritus, Columbia U.
Kermit Hall; Dean of Humanities, Ohio State
William Joyce; Assoc. Librarian, Princeton U.
Anna Nelson; History Professor, American U.

2. Intermediate steps before appeal to President:

a) We are discussing our concerns with JFK Board Staff, and will ask the Board to reconsider its decision.

b) We'll propose that a senior Agency officer brief the Board on the sensitivity of Warrenton.

3. Who would make the appeal to the President ?

Thus far, the process calls for the Agency's General Counsel to forward the appeal to the White House Counsel, with the approval of the EXDIR and/or DCI.

4. Has there been an appeal to the President before?

CIA has submitted one appeal, in early 1996. The issues concerned identification of certain European stations and liaison relationships. The White House directed the Board and the Agency to "work it out", which was done. After the ADDO briefed the

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

Board, a compromise was reached.

The FBI has submitted three appeals, none of which was successful.

5. Does ISCAP have a role ?

Thus far, ISCAP has had no role with regard to JFK, as far as we are aware.

CC: Regina A. Genton, Brian S. Latell, Edmund Cohen @ DA, James R. Oliver @ DA, Linda C. Cipriani, J. Barry Harrelson

Sent on 20 October 1997 at 02:21:49 PM

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

13-00000

SECRET

OIM-97-0010
14 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: (U) Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board

FROM: (U) Deputy Director for Administration
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training
Center (WTC) as CIA Facility

1. (S) This memorandum is submitted pursuant to the decision by the Assassination Records Review Board (hereafter "ARRB" or "Board") to release the term "Warrenton Records Center" in the context of a CIA facility and the Board's subsequent decision on 17 November 1997 to reconsider this issue. It provides additional information as to why Warrenton Training Center ("WTC") as a CIA facility must be protected from public disclosure and hence the cover of this clandestine facility maintained.[^1]

2. (U) As a preliminary matter, I would respectfully ask the Board and staff to note the classified nature of this document, to limit access to those individuals properly cleared,

[^1]: (S) The documents at issue contain the term "Warrenton Records Center": however the actual name of the CIA facility at Warrenton is the "Warrenton Training Center." In point of fact, even CIA personnel tend to use the terms interchangeably.

SECRET

CL BY: 0700265
CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FM: LOC 5-82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center as CIA Facility

and to return this memorandum for retention to Agency representatives at the conclusion of your deliberations.

3. (S) As we advised previously, identifiable and serious damage to the mission, the people and the very existence of WTC could reasonably be expected to occur as a result of any confirmed affiliation with the Agency. Before examining with particularity the damage that would flow from disclosure, I believe that it would be helpful to understand in some detail the activities which currently constitute the WTC mission and what new, costly and critical activities are being developed for WTC.

4. (S) WTC is much more than a records archive for the CIA operating under the relatively fragile cover of the National Communications System (NCS) of the Department of the Army.2 While it does serve this function, and thus houses at the site known as Station A some of the Agency's most important and sensitive Top Secret Codeword material, it is currently the very heart of the CIA's worldwide communications effort, a critical

[^2] (S) Pursuant to classification guidelines promulgated by the Director of Central Intelligence, this fact is currently and properly classified at the SECRET level.

[^3] (S) Because of the sensitivity of CIA records, the Archivist of the United States has authorized the CIA to maintain this archive for both permanent and temporary records pending ultimate transfer to the National Archives no sooner than 50 years after their origination. This records center currently houses nearly 130,000 cubic feet of records classified up to and including Top Secret codeword and composed of various media ranging from paper to original imagery from our national aerial and satellite surveillance platforms. In addition, the center also houses the CIA's vital records which would provide the only basis for continuity of operations should disaster befall CIA headquarters. In addition and because of the security offered, the Center serves a similar role for the National Security Council and the Office of the Management and Budget.

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

element in our foreign signals intelligence effort, and a
principal location for training and conferencing of officers
engaged in highly clandestine technical intelligence collection
activities. The facilities at WTC in support of these efforts
include:

*   Station B serves as the principal communications training
    site not only for CIA (and thus for CIA communicators who
    are sent worldwide under official or non-official cover)
    but also houses the Diplomatic Telecommunications Service
    (DTS) Program Office which is responsible for various
    CIA/Department of State communications efforts and the
    actual Department of State Communications School. This
    site also supports extensive and very sensitive (a)
    technical procurement, testing and training, (b) human
    operational activities, and (c) conferencing; examples in
    this regard include:

*   covert employees of the Office of Technical
    Collection which procures, distributes, tests and
    repairs equipment for our signals intelligence
    program as well as other technical collection
    platforms such as the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
    which has played and continues to play a critical
    role in the Bosnian theater;

[^4] (S) The Office of Technical Collection is a component within the
Directorate of Science and Technology which is responsible for the
development, deployment and management of the CIA's Signals Intelligence
(SIGINT) and Measurement and Signature Intelligence (MASINT) programs as well
as other technical intelligence collection programs. By way of example, our
SIGINT program includes unilateral activities directed against foreign
communications networks, liaison activities with cooperating foreign
governments, and support activities for the DO's human intelligence mission.

3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

*   covert employees of the Office of External
    Development[^5] and the various area divisions of the
    Directorate of Operations (hereafter "DO") which
    are responsible for clandestine human intelligence
    operations overseas;[^6]
*   senior officials of the Administration,
    Ambassadors, and senior executive branch offices
    in preparation for diplomatic initiatives, such as
    the Bosnian Peace Talks; and
*   members and staff from the Senate Select Committee
    on Intelligence.
*   Station C serves as the CIA's primary transmit site for
    high frequency (HF) covert communications (covcom) and
    thus maintains communications with our most sensitive and
    secret officers and assets operating overseas largely
    with non-official cover; and
*   Station D serves as the Agency's primary receive site for
    world-wide classified and encrypted communications with

[^5]: (S) The Office of External Development (OED) is one of the most sensitive
components within the Directorate of Operations and is responsible for the
recruitment and placement of "non-official cover" (NOC) officers overseas who
are responsible for the recruitment and management of foreign nationals who
provide clandestine services for CIA.

[^6]: (S) The various DO area divisions utilize WTC for immersion language
training, covert communications training, and other seminars and studies where
such training could not be accomplished through the Department of State or
identified CIA facilities because of their pending overseas assignments.
Hence, if WTC was associated with CIA, then the presence of a student at WTC
would serve to identify that officer as a soon-to-be-assigned espionage
officer for American intelligence an identification inconsistent with their
pending diplomatic or commercial cover and the success of their mission.

4

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

our covert foreign stations and bases, and, also
processes a significant volume of highly sensitive
message traffic for the White House and the Secretary of
State.

5. (S) As detailed on the attached annotated photographs,
   WTC and its four constituent stations are a critical support
   element for the clandestine intelligence collection mission of
   the CIA and the United States. Whether sending a message to a
   covert foreign national asset in Havana, or receiving a message
   from the CIA Chief of Station in Moscow, or supporting military
   and diplomatic representatives in Bosnia, WTC is a key element in
   that effort. Moreover, it is extremely vulnerable to physical
   attack because of the proximity of uncontrolled public roads and
   spaces. Accordingly, and as considered in more detail in
   paragraph 6 below, any affiliation of WTC with the CIA, no matter
   how insignificant the individual occurrence or document release
   may seem, has the very real potential to jeopardize lives,
   negatively affect the Agency mission, and thereby do irreparable
   harm to the national security of the United States.

6. (S) But in addition to this established mission and
   extant risks, there are new activities at WTC in direct support
   of the nation's leadership which must be considered --
   specifically, the establishment of the Director of Central
   Intelligence (DCI) Emergency Relocation Site (ERS), and an
   alternative ERS site for the Secretary of State. WTC has been
   chosen to be the primary DCI ERS given its location,
   communications, information services, and life support
   capabilities. Needless to say, the fact that WTC is not an
   officially recognized CIA facility adds a dimension of secrecy
   which will be needed to enable the DCI to continue his work
   during any emergency situation. Additionally, active
   consideration is being given to also designating WTC as the

5

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

Agency's primary Emergency Communications Center. Given the
amount of time, money and resources which will be expended to
insure that the facility is maintained in such a way that it will
be prepared for any emergency situation, it would certainly be in
the best interests of the US Government not to permit any
official affiliation, no matter how minor, of WTC and the CIA.

7. (S) The preceding descriptions of ongoing and planned
   activities at WTC presents, I believe, an intuitive sense of the
   damage to national security which would follow from a linking of
   WTC with CIA. In sum, the conduct of covert communications and
   support activities as well as the presence of officers who will
   soon be serving overseas under cover in highly sensitive
   positions can not take place at a facility linked to CIA. But
   there are some very specific damage issues that I wish to
   highlight and they include:

*   (S) **Serious and Immediate Impairment to Physical and Personnel Security:** Our Department of the Army cover allows us to maintain a relatively low profile in the Warrenton community and a very low profile outside of the immediate area. If WTC became recognized as a CIA facility, the increased visibility and scrutiny would place employees, facilities, and daily operations at greater risk. In sum, WTC would become an easy "target of opportunity" for the media, foreign counter- intelligence agents, terrorist and militia activities, demonstrators, and emotionally unstable individuals. Facts, examples, and specific concerns include:

*   WTC, like most domestic CIA sites, is a very lightly guarded facility in terms of personnel guards and physical fencing. It survives and

6

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

*   maintains security through a low profile. [^7] In the past in the United States, identification of CIA facilities have led to a number of surreptitious entries, bombings, and physical disruptions. Simply stated, CIA is a target for both hostile individuals and organizations;

*   On the individual level and in the past three years, WTC has experienced an increase in security incidents including a physical breach of Station D compound security, two suspect package incidents, and additional unsolicited contacts and "gate turn-around" incidents;[^9]

[^7]: (S) As detailed on the attached annotated photographs, the array of communications equipment and its proximity to public spaces and roads is clear. For example, Station C has two gates: the first is only 50 feet from a public road and the second is approximately 600 feet. There are no electronic intrusion alarms on the fence line and, most often, only one security officer is present at a gate. All facility signs simply state: "Warrenton Training Center / NCS / U.S. Army / Admission By Permit Only"

[^8]: (S) The current Kasi prosecution provides ample evidence of the risks posed by the public identification of CIA domestic facilities. Any individual intent upon seeking retribution for perceived wrongs quite naturally seeks a target providing the largest possible public notice and while CIA headquarters is an excellent target, a covert facility is even a better target, and a covert facility supporting the foreign espionage activities of the CIA is the best possible target for a political and public statement.

[^9]: (S) The breach of compound security was by an out-of-state vehicle which followed an employee through a remote gate and the driver had no credible explanation for their actions; the incident is considered suspicious and unexplained. The suspect package incidents include a box which was placed (not dropped) next to our facility which we believe was intended to test and thus observe our response to suspicious packages. Gate turn-arounds number 8-10 per month and include only those vehicles which ignore clear signs that they are entering a classified government facility but proceed in any event to our gate; it is instructive to note that very few of these individuals state

7. 
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

*   Moreover, in the past several years, the federal government has had a heightened awareness of the violent domestic organization threat posed by the self-styled "militias" which have a stated intent to destroy government communications capabilities and facilities. We know, from information provided by federal law enforcement authorities, that the target list of such organizations includes federal communications centers and WTC Stations C and D exactly fit this target profile;

*   By way of examples in this regard, in June of this year, the Sheriff of Fauquier County reported to WTC information regarding, first, a local militia group, and, second, "unusual" comments from individuals living near Station C that we were communicating with UFO's;

*   Any higher profile would realistically and seriously threaten the physical and personnel security of WTC. And, as evidenced by the attached map of WTC, such threats do not need to penetrate the fence line: Agency officials are of the opinion that a bomb commensurate with the one which exploded at the Oklahoma City federal building could do substantial damage to the Agency's communications equipment and could kill numerous federal employees at WTC from outside the fence line in circumstances we do not control and could not prevent.

or imply that they know that WTC is a CIA facility and, hence, it would appear that our cover, in fact, is quite good.

8

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

*   (S) Likely Future Compromise of Covert Employees in
    Overseas Assignments: As discussed above, numerous CIA
    employees involved in communications, technical
    intelligence collection, and human intelligence
    collection train and operate at WTC for the exact reason
    that it provides a secure environment disassociated from
    the CIA. We know from ample evidence that foreign
    intelligence services have as a primary goal the
    identification of US citizens who appear to be ordinary
    public servants or private business people but are, in
    actuality, clandestine intelligence officers.[^1] Simply
    stated, the identification of this facility with CIA will
    label any and every individual associated as a likely
    intelligence officer and thus substantially negate their
    operational ability if not place their lives in jeopardy.

*   (S) Loss of Emergency Relocation Site for DCI:
    Emergency relocation sites (ERSS) -- whether they be for
    the President or Cabinet officials -- have value only as
    long as their identity is secret. The public disclosure
    of the fact that WTC would serve as such an ERS site
    which could come from a general compromise of WTC as a
    CIA facility plus subsequent visual surveillance -- would
    negate Agency planning in this regard, vitiate
    expenditures, and leave the Agency with few realistic
    options for survivability. We must assume that any

[^1]: (S) We know from captured STASI (the former intelligence service of East
Germany) and clandestinely-acquired KGB files that substantial resources have
been directed at such identifications. Typically, a suspect American will be
surveilled for some time in order to identify his or her target and
cooperating foreign nationals. To identify a communicator is one of the
highest priorities since it provides a possible entrée to cryptographic
compromise as well as an opportunity to "roll-up" or identify the numerous
human intelligence collection officers who rely on that particular
communicator to transmit information back to the United States.

9

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

entity which had the willingness and capability to attack
the CIA would be inclined to inflict the maximum damage.
Identification of WTC even as a generic CIA facility
poses an unacceptable risk to this key aspect to CIA
continuity of operations.

(S) Potential Compromise of Classified Communications or
Technical Collection Platforms: In addition to the
foregoing physical threat to our communications
facilities (e.g., the potential to destroy towers,
satellite dishes and transmitting facilities by terrorist
act), the disclosure of WTC as the transmit and receive
site for CIA classified communications to foreign embassy
sites as well as foreign assets in the field presents a
significant opportunity for any number of foreign nations
to enhance their signals and communications intelligence
efforts at our expense. While the scope and
classification level of this memorandum does not permit a
detailed discussion, I am convinced that this disclosure
would make WTC a target of hostile foreign intelligence
services.

(S) Loss of Covert, Quick Reaction Procurement
Capability: In support of OTC and other tenant elements,
WTC uses its Army cover to procure items on a non-
attributable basis to CIA. [^1] These items are acquired in
near real time with minimal delay and direct delivery.

[^1]: (S) The official term for such procurements is "SC-1" or "Sterility Code 1" which means that the tangible items purchased cannot be traced to CIA but only to a non-sensitive government agency. For example, if an officer is assigned undercover to a foreign capital and is undeclared to that country, then it would be most imprudent to carry a personal computer and a cellular telephone which could easily be traced to CIA. At a minimum, that officer would be subject to foreign counter-intelligence surveillance and all of his or her contacts compromised (i.e., identified and neutralized).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center as CIA Facility

If the WTC cover is eroded due to affiliation with the Agency, past procurements could be retroactively compromised while subsequent procurement activity would necessitate involving headquarters elements, indirect delivery and forwarding to WTC. The loss of response time would negatively impact on the operational capabilities of WTC tenant organizations.

(S) Loss of Secure Training and Conference Capability: Station B is often used as a conference facility not only by Agency groups, but also by other US Government organizations. For example, Secretary of State Warren Christopher's pre-planning session for the Bosnian Peace Accord Talks was held at WTC based on the need for a discreet location in which Department of State (DoS) officials, to include two ambassadors, and the military could secretly discuss strategic planning without undue attention (media coverage). If CIA affiliation is acknowledged in any way, WTC's value to the entire US Government is greatly diminished. Additionally, its value to the Agency is also diminished in that personnel from OED and other operational elements who use this facility would be running a greater risk of exposure and cover compromise if they visited WTC. Since access roads can be monitored and registration lists, and/or luggage tags can be obtained at hotels used to accommodate some of these visitors, their association with the CIA would be much harder to protect.

(S) Heightened Scrutiny of Classified Mission: For more than 40 years, WTC has operated as an Army facility. We have been a good "neighbor" and have developed close working relationships throughout the town. To confirm what many have suspected but could never prove (or what a few "knew" but willingly protected) will have a negative

11

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

impact on our credibility and will create an "open
season" for the local media and others as they quite
naturally attempt to learn any and all aspects of our
mission -- *those clandestine officers who could come and
go previously with little notice will now be a highly
visible target.*[^1]

*   (S) **Endangerment of Department of State Officers and
    Loss of WTC as Training Site for DoS:** As the Department
    of State is an integral part of WTC, their concerns must
    also be taken into consideration. They have advised of
    their significant concerns that a loss of WTC cover will
    lead to the mis-identification of DoS communicators
    overseas as CIA officers. They have stated that it is
    the fact of the current WTC cover which permits them to
    train DoS communicators alongside Agency communicators at
    a very efficient cost. The only solution to the loss of
    cover would be to move the Dos communications school to
    another location, a very costly endeavor in both time and
    money.

8. (S) In summary, it is my considered judgment that the
   release of the term "Warrenton Records Center", which will create
   an affiliation of WTC and the CIA, would cause major disruptions
   to CIA operations, possible physical harm to CIA facilities and
   personnel, and hence identifiable and serious damage to the
   national security of the United States. Accordingly, I
   respectfully request that the Board defer release of such
   information. In doing so, I am mindful of the Board's mission

[^1]: (S) It is not unreasonable to believe that the loss of cover for WTC would
require a five fold increase in physical security personnel at WTC and even
then security could not be ensured given the proximity of the facility to
public spaces and roads.

12

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

and the necessity for the American public to have the fullest
possible disclosure regarding the assassination of President
Kennedy, however, I believe that this reference is not relevant
to the public's understanding and that disclosure would cause
harms significantly disproportionate to any public benefit.

9. (U) If the Board should have any questions with regard
   to this matter, I have asked Lee Strickland, who serves as Chief
   of the Agency's Information Review Group, to be available to the
   Board in order to provide such additional classified or
   unclassified information as might be required.

Richard D. Calder

(S) Attachment
Annotated View of WTC Station C



13

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

> [Figure] Aerial view of Station C showing the Main Road, Main Towers, and Auxiliary Towers.
> ![Aerial view of Station C showing the Main Road, Main Towers, and Auxiliary Towers]
> Station C
> Main Road
> Auxillary Tower
> Main Towers
> Auxillary Tower
> Auxillary Tower
> Auxillary Tower
> Auxillary Tower

14

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

(S) Attachment
Annotated View of WTC Station D

> [Figure] Annotated view of WTC Station D, including Satellite Dish, HF Tower, Gate, Main Road
> ![Annotated view of WTC Station D, including Satellite Dish, HF Tower, Gate, Main Road]


15

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: (S) Required Protection of Warrenton Training Center
as CIA Facility

OFSS/FMG/WTC/SNAlcivar:kak/49570 (07 Nov 97)
modified OIM/IRG/LSStrickland/31289 (13 Nov 97)

Distribution:
Orig - Addressee

2 - DDA

1 - OIM/IRG Chrono

1 - C/OIM/IRG

1 - D/OIM

1 - OIM Legal Advisor

1 - D/OFSS

1 - C/FMG/OFSS

1 - DO/CCO

1 - C/WTC/FMG/OFSS

1 - DC/WTC

1 - OFSS Registry

g:\ipcrdwp\general\lss\arrb_wtc.doc

16

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)