# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

SECRET

ACTION: C/SAS 5

INFO: DOP, ADDP, RI/AN DUMMY, D/OC 2, VR

SECRET 102123Z

DIR CITE WAVE 8883

RYBAT TYPIC AMBANTY FEDGUR COMMO

REF A. WAVE 8699 (IN 76062)

B. WAVE 8788 (IN 76064)

10DEC77700
08

1. FOLL IS TRANSLATION REFS A AND B:

   A. 98. OTTO. RECEIVED YOUR MESSAGE NUMBER 89. SEND US ON LIBERTAD 12, 6 BOTTLES OF TRINRICON INTRINSIC. THESE ARE CAPSULES OF THE LILLY LABORATORIES TO FIGHT AGAINST PERNICIOUS ANEMIA. AQUILES.

   B. 91. OTTO. DOCTOR JIMENES' NAME IS (AURELIO MARTINEZ) HE IS A PHYSICIST-MATHEMATICIAN. WAS RECRUITED BY IRENE AND WORKS WITH HER. THE DATA ON ADA'S NEPHEW WHO WILL COME OUT ON LIBERTAD 12 IS: JOSE (CAMPOS PEREZ), SON OF RICARDO AND CELINA. BORN IN HAVANA ON 18 AUGUST 1945. 18 YEARS OF AGE. SINGLE. STUDENT. THE NEW POSITION OF AGUILA IN CAYO LEVISA IS SAFE. WE WAIT FOR YOU. THE BOAT, WHICH IS BIG AND WITH MOTOR, WILL BE HIDDEN IN THE MANGROVES. ALL THE SIGNALS AND HOURS WILL BE THE SAME. AQUILES.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

2. N'AI' COMMENTS: REF B AURELIO (MARTINEZ) FERRO 281-283293 15 OLD CONTACT OF ANCLATTER-5. A-S WILL BE QUERIED ON SUBJ BUT NOT TOLD FOR WHAT REASON. TOMAS BENE (INGUANZO) ORTIZ 281-349154 MENTIONS MARTINEZ IN HIS PRG PART 1, UFCA 7527, 8 FEG 63. REQUEST HOS FORLARD 231-260230 TO JHWAVE. NO WAVE TRACES JOSE (CAMPOS) PEREZ REQUEST HOS TRACING AND INDEX ING.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)