# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING

|                                                     | ACTION |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| Marked for Indexing                                 |        |
| No Indexing Required                                |        |
| Only Qualified Headquarters Desa Car Judge Indexing |        |
| Abstract                                            |        |
| Microfilm                                           |        |

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TIPIC/Operational Debriefing Report - Santiago SANCHEZ de la Torre

ACTION REQUIRED: None

REFERENCES: (A) WAVE 2733, dated 15 August 1963 (B) MEXI 5507, dated 26 July 1963

Transmitted herewith, FYI, is a debriefing report on Santiago SANCHEZ de la Torre. Subject arrived in the U. S., via Mexico in late August, 1963. The debriefing contains information re the MRR roll up in May, 1963. Attachment "A" contains a list of subject's friends that are currently employed in power plants in Cuba. Attachment "B" is a debriefing report on Angel BENCOMO who Sanchez believes was responsible for the MRR roll up.

END OF DISPATCH

ATTACHMENTS: Debriefing Reports, 1 cy ea. herewith

![index x]

Distribution: 3-C/SAS, w/atts/h/w

![RECLASSIFIED]

![signature]

DATE TYPED: 4 Oct. 63

DATE DISPATCHED: Oct 11 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-11653

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 19-132-5-96/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DEBRIEFING REPORT : Santiago SANCHEZ do la Torre - aka "Jose Antonio"

# DATE & PLACE : Safehouse #182, 29-30 August (0900 - 1300 hrs)

# CASE OFFICER : Claronce E. SMERYAGE

1. Subject began to work against the CASTRO regimo with the MRP in 1960. At that time he was employed in the Santa Clara power plant as a technician. His job was controlling the amount.of electric current that was distributed. (Attachmont "A" contains a list of Subject's friends currently employed in power plants in Cuba). On 17 April 1961 Subject made contact with a_KJBARK infiltration team and began to assist the team. Team consisted of *Segundo BORGES*, *Pepe" GONZALES* and *AMARGO/1*. Case Officer Comment: *AMARGO/1* has confirmed the fact that Subject worked with his team In Cuba. Subject permitted the team to install their RS-1 set in his house located at #219 Carretera de Camajuani in the City of Santa Clara. He also safohoused the team on occasion and permitted them to hold meetings at his house. After the failure of Playa Giron the team reorganized the MRR in Las Villas Province, selecting Subject to be the Civil Coordinator of the movement in that province. *Enrique ORTEGA* was selected as the Military Coordinator. On 21 July 1961, while *ORTEGA* and Subject yere in Havana for discussions with MRR leaders *AMIHOOK/1* and *Juan F FALCON* the KUBARK infiltration team and many other members of the MRR in Las Villas, including Subject's wife, were arrested. (Discussions were about actions to tako place 26 July 1961).

2. *Maria RODRIGUEZ Posa* from Santa Clara, age 50/55 yrs, called *ORTEGA* In Havana and told him not to return to Santa Clara as many people had been arrested. *ORTEGA* passed the information to Subject but as subject thought it applied only to *ORTEGA* he returned to Santa Clara late at night on 22 July. He went to his home and on 23 July proceeded to work at the power plant. *Maria RODRIGUEZ Posa* intercepted him on his way home for lunch and told him that the G-2 was at his home and that they also were going to the power plant to arrest him. Subject also learned that there was surveillance on his home on the night of 22 July 1961, but the person watching the house had gotten drunk and did not see subject when he returned from Havana. From that moment until entering an Embassy on 6 September 1962, subject lived "black".

3. Subject proceeded to the outskirts of Santa Clara where a friend, *Efrain WAREN*, resided. His friend told him to go to Havana. While driving to Havana Subject met another person who informed him that the G-2 had a roadblock on the highway at Colon, Matanzas, and that all cars were being searched. On 24 July 1961, Subject went to a beach called "GANUZA" located on the north coast of Las Villas near Corralillo. Subject's sister has a home at "Ganuza" so he left his car there and proceeded to Havana with some friends of his sister. Later the G-2 confiscated his auto. (It is interesting to note that the G-2, after confiscating subject's auto at the beach, believed that Subject had departed from Cuba. Subject thereafter communicated with his wife by sending her letters in jail via Miami where they were postmarked).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Page 2 -

4. On 25 July 1961 Subject went to the house of of an MRR leador, FNU JIMENEZ in Havana. When Subject approached JIMENEZ house he noticed a "blind move as if someono was watching" so he did not go in. He walked two blocks to a bus stop. From the bus stop he could observe the house and he noticed that a car departed at a "high rate of speed". Later that day Subject made contact with ORTEGA at the house of Mario IRIVE in Fontanar, Havana (IRIVE still lives in Havana) ORTEGA told Subject of the MRR plans for the following day (26 July) ORTEGA said that the movement was "going ahead with their plans" even though they were aware of JIMENEZ arrest. Subject resided for approximately one week at the home of Jose MELGAREJO in Voradero. MELGAREJO continues to work for the GOC at this time. He is the Deputy Chief of "Asphalt Consolidated for the entire country. (In Apr 1962 Subject's wife escaped from the Womens' Prison at Guanajay, Pinar del Rio, She also was safehoused at MALGAREJO house). Subject claims that MALGAREJO is a "good man" who also has a home located at Avenida de los OCUJES #221 in Santa Catalina (outskirts of Havana). MALCAREJO's wife and sons reside with him.
   Subject spent approximatoly one month in the above house (Aug.-Sept. 61).

5. From October 1961 Subject resided with Ester CRUZ a person he had known for 10 years. While living with CRUZ The changed his appearance - lost much weight, dyed and curled his hair, obtained contact lenses. (C/O Comment: Ester CRUZ was arrested approximately 9 May 1962 during the "roll up" of the MRR. She is in jail at this time). In November 1961, Subject met Jose Luis ARANGO from Camaguey ARANCO was at that time military coordinator for the MRR and used the name "Angelito".
   FNU REYES Aka LUCAS who was the MRR Coordinator of Las Villas introduced Subject to ARANGO REYES A's from Yaguajay, Las Villas. Subject met REYES through Oscar MADRUGA Aka "Anibel" whom he had known since 1959. ARANGO encouraged Subject to begin working for the MRR again, An ID card in alias from a medical laboratory was obtained for Subject.
   He then obtained a briefcase and began selling medical supplies. MADRUGA cousin Jose FERNANDEZ owned the laboratory ROMBERG LABORATORY
   FERNANDEZ worked for AMBRONC/5. After AMBRONC75 was captured two actual MRR member's met FERNANDEZ and requested that he continue to work. FERNANDEZ did not know the men and denied that he worked for the movement).

6. In late November, 1961. Subject moved into a "guest house" where several other MRR members resided. House is called House of Maria de la *GALLEGA and is located on "J" Street_between 21st and 23rd Streets,
   Vedado Subject met "Fernando", the Security Chief of the MRR at the guest house. Fernando continues to work in the underground. He also met Oscar Oscar MADRUGA MADRUGA there.
   He met Roberto SANCHEZ ho also continues to work In the underground MADRUGA had gone to the hills of Las Villas but returned to Havana. Another MRR man residing there was Robert FERNANDEZ. Arturo MUGARRA and AMSALON/1 visited the house on occasion. Subject Was once picked up at the house by AMSALON/1. During this period FNU REYES, Aka. Lucas, was arrested and Subject began to work with MUGARRA
   In December 1961 ARANGO took asylum. There was much conflict in the MRR during this period between AMHOOK/1 and AMBRONC/5. (Subject has many letters pertaining to this conflict but they were left in Mexico. AMBIDDY/1 is having someone pick up the letters. Case Officer will attempt to obtain these letters and review them. Subject claims he did not hand carry them to the U.S., as he thought our officials would seize them).

421BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Page 3

7. In January 1962, Arturo MUGARRA and Roberto SANCHEZ were preparing to depart from Cuba. When AMJAVA/4 and AMBRONC/5 arrived in Havana they changed their minds (C/O Comment: A woman named Emilia del MAS was living with MUGARRA. This girl later came to the USA via the Brazilian Embassy). MUGARRA group consisted of Roberto SANCHEZ, Angel CANETE, Eddy GALENO who "is bad, likes money, women, etc"., and subject. Eddy GALENO called Subject here in Miami on 28 August and wants to talk with him).

8. MUGARRA informed AMBRONC/5 that he had doubts about Juan BUSTAMENTE, Aka "Roly", as he had asked too many questions re what AMBRONC/5 had brought to Cuba. AMBRONC/5 decided to call a "false meeting" of the chiefs of the movement to test BUSTAMENTE but "someone objected to this". In February 1962, a meeting of the leaders of the MRR took place and AMBRONC/5 reorganized the movement. Subject met AMBRONC/5 only twice - once in February 1962 at the house of Angel CANETE and another time in March, 1962 when the assassination of Juan MARINELLO failed. The Operation failed as the automobile to be used in the assassination attempt was stolen on the day of the proposed Operation. The driver of the car was to be Orlando (CRUZ, brother of Ester CRUZ. The MRR suspected Orlando CRUZ after this incident as he is a person who "likes money" and the theft was"quite a coincidence". (Orlando CRUZ is presently in Miami. He called Subject on 28 August and wants to see him). AMBRONC/5 informed the group in March to suspend all operations until he returned from a trip he was taking to the USA with MUGARRA and Jose RODRIGUEZ Pecheco. AMBRONC/5 placed Angel CANATE in charge of the radio sets. CANATE was selected to be the only person in direct contact with the RADOP in place of Juan BUSTAMENTE, Aka "Roly" MUCARRA gave subject two radio sets; one was placed in the apartment of a sister-in-law of subject located at 23rd and I Sts., Vedado, Apt. #11. The other set was located at *A Street between 3rd and 5th Sts., Vedado, the home of Carlos CADENAS. The only persons who knew the locations of the sets were the Radop, Juan FALCON the MRR Chief and Angel CANATE. During AMBRONC/5's trip to the USA in April, 1962, Juan BUSTAMENTE, Aka "Roly" discovered where the radios were hidden. Subject had contact with FALCON and CANATE during April.

9. On 2 May 1962 AMBRONC/5 and MUGARRA returned from the USA. Enrique CEPERO and MUGARRA common-law-wife waited for them in the Blue Studebaker Lark. AMBRONC/5 and MUGARRA were late in arriving, however, and the group had departed from the area.

10. Subject later discovered that the G-2, had captured a "large radio" in the apartment of a radio technician named TROVADIUS. TROVADIUS, when captured, fired at the G-2 and was himself wounded in the shoulder. Later TROVADIUS reported that he had seen Juan FALCON in prison and that FALCON had said "people in the G-2 had told me that no one would be wounded or killed".

11. The Radop (AMBUMP/1) informed subject on Wednesday (9 May 1962) to take the radio set out of the house. Rumors were already circulating that the Radop and FALCON were captured. Owners of the house where the radio was cached had moved to Santa Clara for Mothers' Day. As Subject was in contact with Congo PECHECO during this time he did not attempt to pick-up the radio until Thursday (10 May) at 0700 hrs. Subject entered the apartment building (12 stories high) by the rear. Upon arrival he discovered that the glass doors on the terrace were opened (apartment was located on the eleventh floor). These windows are seldom opened.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Page 4

Subject entered the building with his briefcase containing a pistol. He noticed two men "loitering" in the lobby. He took the elevator to the 9th floor, departed, and walked to the eleventh floor. Subject was wearing soft shoes. He walked quietly to the apartment and heard a voice say "don't talk so loud as no one will come in". Subject then proceeded to the next apartment occupied by a friend of the movement. The friend said she had heard noises since the preceding night in the apartment. Subject then took the stairs to the 9th floor and entered the elevator. He got off on the ground floor and proceded to the house on Carlos 08 Tercero Ave where the other radio was cached (Owner's name is CABANES). Upon arrival at the house he discovered that the woman who owned the house was outside in her housecoat talking to a stranger. Subject then departed from the area, called a friend of CABANES who went to the house. The friend was arrested, held a week and released. Subject then tried to pass this information to Arturo MUGARRA but MUGARRA had disappeared. He later discovered that MUGARRA knew that the radios were discovered and that TROVADIUS had been shot.

12. On 9 May Juan FALCON, the radio operator (ALBUMP/1), Pepe GUTIERREZ, Aka Peluza, Estar CRUZ and Jose SEOANE were arrested. When subject heard of these developments he hid in the Guanabo area. During this period 9th to 28th of May, he saw MUGARRA approximately eight times. He later heard that the G-2 had taken over a house in Guanabo; located 3 blocks from where he was hiding. Subject heard that the G-2 had taken a "blond thin man there": (Possibly AMBRONC/5). G-2 remained at the house for four days.

13. Subject then departed from Guanabo for a few days. When he returned in June 1962 he met Sylvia LNU; the person who resided at the house where the "blond thin man named CARLOS" was taken. Sylvia and subject met in the water in front of their houses. Sylvia is the wife of a BATISTA Naval Captain who lives in Miami. She has two "little girls". Sylvia said that "CARLOS" used to live at her house and after being captured he was returned there with the G-2. The G-2 was searching for a "plastic case and envelopes" (pads and crystals). Sylvia told subject that she had seen the envelope and that when Enrique CEPERO's family informed her that he was captured she hid everything in the house that could incriminate "Carlos" under the dog house in the back yard. "Carlos" talked as if he had been drugged when he returned to the house with the G-2. They searched the entire house bringing "Carlos" back and forth several times for four days. Sylvia was forced to open the door whenever anyone arrived and the caller was arrested. Sylvia was interrogated and the house was under surveillance for approximately a month. A friend of Sylvia's from outside Cuba visited her during this period and was arrested and held for a week. Sylvia said the items she buried looked like "pads and maps wrapped in plastic". Although she claimed the material was turned over to the MRR subject has doubts that this was done.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Page 5 -

14. During September 1962 Subject and his wife entered the Uruguayan Embassy to remain in asylum until 19 June 1963 when they arrived in Mexico City via Safe Conduct.

15. Attachment "B" is a report on Angel BENCOMO who subject believes was responsible for the MRR "roll-up".

![Signature of Clarence E. Smeryage]
Clarence E. SMERYAGE

![SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

ATTACHMENT "A"

*TALLAPIEDRA - (Power Plant)

1. Ing. Manolito FERNANDEZ - Superintendente
2. Ing. Luis F. de LEON - Superintendente Auxiliar
   (Bomb Thrower)
3. 
REGLA - (Power Plant)

1. Delfin RODRIGUEZ - Operator Control Room
2. Ing. ROSS - Superintendent

DESPACHO NARANJITO - (Sub-Station)

1. Jaime GUIU

OFICINA PRINCIPAL DE DESPACHO

1. Carlos MANUEL Pena - Auxiliar of Superintendent
   (May be throw a bomb)- He can give good information.

DESPACHO SANTA CLARA (Santa Clara Dispatching Office)

1. Pedro LUCAS Galvez (Jefe Despacho) - Dispatch Chief
2. Agustin GARCIA Cabalet - Despachador - (Dispatcher)

Vladimir S. KLITTING.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# ATTACHMENT "B"

Debriefing of Santiago SANCHEZ, de la Torre

SUBJECT: Angel BENCOMO (BENCOMO reportedly was responsible for the MRR roll-up per SANCHEZ See MEXI-5507)

1. Angel BENCONO is approximately 19 years old, has brown skin, short, stocky, approximately 150 lbs. BENCONO was formerly a miliciaman in Camaguey and a friend of Arturo MUGARRARD BENCOMO entered the MRR via Eddy GALENO during March 1962, when he was employed by the Abras Publicas In Camaguey, BENCONO had trouble with his superiors; quit the militia, etc GELENO brought BENCOMO to Havana where BENCOMO began working in resistance with Jose RODRIGUEZ Pecheco and Santiago SANCHEZ (BENCOMO did not meet Arturo MUGARRA in Havana) SANCHEZ "tested BENCOMO" and he appeared to be OK 1.0., disciplined, quiet, etc. SANCHEZ then began using BENCOMO to pick-up radios, minox cameras, etc. This activity took place between March and May 1962

2. Arturo MUGARRA was arrested in May 1962 in a cafeteria in Havana where he went to dispose of an automobile. GALENO was to meet MUGARRA at the cafeteria. MUGARRA and his brother arrived at the cafeteria, turned the car (Cadillac) over to the prospective buyer and sat down. A mechante drove the car to test it and returned with two G-2 cars. Although GALENO was present and was questioned he was not arrested.

3. Ficm May to September 1962, SANCHEZ saw BENCOMO often. In September SANCHEZ went into an Embassy but "heard that BENCOMO was arrested and held until November". In January 1963 SANCHEZ heard from BENCOMO via SANCHEZ" sister. BENCOMO wrote a letter (which SANCHEZ still has) saying that he was working for the MRR in the streets. BENCOMO said he did not want to seek asylum but was considering going to the house of Luis PERALES in Oriente PERALES formerly was operating in the hills of Yayuajay but went to Havana to hide out in Jan.-Feb. 1962). In February 1963, SANCHEZ received another letter from his sister saying that BENCONO was a G-2 man. BENCOMO identified himself as a G-2 man to PERALES in December 1962 and asked PERALES to cooperate with him PERALES told SANCHEZ sister of BENCOMOs proposition in January 1963. Since that time PERALES has disappeared.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)