104-10106-10215 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF EW YORK

On the 2nd day of MARCH 1978, before me personally came and husband and wife,

to me known to be the individuals described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that they executed the same.

STATE OF NEW RX, COUNTY OF

On the day of 19 , before me personally came
to me known to be the individual described in and who executed the foregoing instrument, and acknowledged that executed the same.

> [Figure: Stamp with text "RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce"]

STATE OF HEW YORK, COUNTY OF

On the day of 19 , before me personally came
to me known, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at No.

that he is the of , the corporation described in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by order of the board of directors of said corporation, and that he signed h name thereto by like order.

STATE OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF

On the day of 19, before me personally came the subscribing witness to the foregoing instrument, with whom I am personally acquainted, who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he resides at No.

that he knows to be the individual described in and who executed the foregoing instrument; that he, said subscribing witness, was present and saw execute the same; and that he, said witness, at the same time subscribed h name as witness thereto.

Mortgage Hote

TITLE NO.

> [Figure: Blacked out area.]

WITH 24
(ROUSH-WALKER COMPANY)

STANDARD FORN OF NEW YORK BOARD OF TITLE UNDERWRITERS

Distributed by

CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY

SECTION 5

BLOCK 1406

LOT 26 - Tax Map

COUNTY KRWXX NEW YORK

Recorded at Request of CHICAGO TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY

Return by Mail to

> [Figure: Handwritten address of Morris E. Brod, Esq. 116 Sullivan Street NY NY 10012]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)