# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
104-10100-10034

6153

21 NOV. 63

TO: MULTI - ADDRESSEE CABLE SEE BELOW

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SAS 0

INFO:
CC:, C/DC:, DOP, ADOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EE 4, VE 4,
NE 4, EE 6, WH 7,
(POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRLN 5, MUNI 5, ATHE 6, ALL OTHER STA'S 3)

TO: MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE

PERUMEN (ZRPRIMA)

LOND PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR

CABLE SEC: IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH) 99

FRAN FROB BONN HAMB BRLN HUNI VIEN ATHE

BERN GNVA CAIR BEIR TEHR TELA RIOD SAOP

MEXI HRID SAGO MONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA

QUIT GUAT SNTO MELB TOKY HONG WAVE BARC

HELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![photo of stamp with information about declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIG: D. FONIS:jd
UNIT: SAS/EOD
EXT: 6153
DATE: 21 NOV. 63

TO: CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI:

INFO:

TO MULTI-LADDRESSEE CABLE INFO
OZ
PERUMEN (ZR)PRIMA
REF: DIR 22218 *

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED HQS REVIEW OF ZRPRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS THAT KUDARK EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM FIDEL'S HAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAI…/ORIGINAL
   OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH OUR FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM ABOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUBARK SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECES IMO THE VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL FROM HAVA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE TWO

INFO

CITE DIR 85387

AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTER ST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO APPLICATIONS, LONU DELAY IN GETTING LORD BACK FROM HAVANA AND SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY HIRED, LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVA, WHICH RUNS SIX TO NINE MONTHS, HAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WHO WERE INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER JOBS.

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR (ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE TO RIVE NEED ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR TO GEPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT THEM IN SAME HANNER R ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE THREE

IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY ACCEPTALLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION CR REJECT IT.

4. RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING (ZRPRIMA[^1]) HAS BEEN NOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED UNABLE OR UNFILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS MARELY REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.

5. DISCONTINUE USE (ZRPRIMA) SLUG AND FILE 200-120-47.

END OF MESSAGE

CIS COMMENT. *Cahia pra-dates CS files. Copy may be seen in CIA reference file.

[^1]: of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

INFO
FROM: DIRECTOR

PAGE FOUR

INFO: CITE 85387

SAS/EOB
SAS/MOB
WR/5 RC Loebe
C/WE Thoma F. Thiele
AC/EE
C/HE/ER 1. H. Cent
C/ITE Allingill

WILLIAM O'RYAN
C/IZ

C/ZAS

16318


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)