# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

E/BC

4C 20 Hqs

EXTENSION NO

1413

7220

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

DATE

3 APR 1978

OFFICER'S INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column, after each comment.)

CI/RTA

Hausman

1 APR 1978

ch

This is the ACTION/INFO copy of a communication received on from MI-6 in Washington.

Russ Holmes

Another copy is being held in E/BC.

3D57

Any reply should be directed to E/BC for forwarding to Liaison.

Processing by IP is to be determined by.

Coordination with E/BC is required prior to any dissemination of this information outside the DDO.

NB: Richard A. SPRAGUE, Chief Counsel and Director of HSCA, saw a copy of attached document. See his attached letter to Sergyj CZORNONOH, 04 December 1976.

RBH

FORM

3-62

610

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

OP-187

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

Our ref: GEN 1

Dear Art,

30 March 1978

Please find attached correspondence received from one Sergyj CZORNONOH who claims that he provided information about Lee Harvey OSWALD to the American Vice Consul (presumably Tom Blackshear) in Sofia, Bulgaria, in August 1963.

2. I have sent copies of these letters to the FBI and to my Head Office in London.

![signature]

D H Jones
for G M L Blackburne-Kan

Mr A H Stimson

Enc.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SERGYJ CZORNONOH
1106-11TH STREET
SACRAMENTO CALIFORNIA
95814
M. Wallar
TO BRITISH EMBASSY
3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D. C.

![Postage stamp of eugene o'neill]USA9c
SACRAMENTO
1978
STATE CAPITOL

EUGENE O'NEILL
15
1978
STATE CAPITOL

15
STATE CAPITOL

RETURN RECEIPT
REQUESTED
REGISTERED
NO.251254


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SERGYJ CZORNONDH
1106-11TH STREET
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, 95814
MARCH 15, 1978

TO BRITISH AMBASSADOR
BRITISH EMBASSY
3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, N.W.
WASHINGTON, D.C.
DEAR SIR.

I WROTE LETTER ON FEBRUARY 15, 1978
TO MR. JAMES CALLAGHAN PRIME MINISTER
I ENCLOSED REGISTERED MAIL NO. 251067.

ON JULY 18, 1963 I WAS IN LONDON ENGLAND
AT THE AIRPORT IMMIGRATION OFFICER NO. 175
I HAD NO VISA IMMIGRATION PLACE ME UNDER
HOUSE ARREST, MR. SMITH IN POLICE UNIFORM
SECRET SERVICE BROUGHT ME STEAK DINNER
AND POLICE OFFICER INTERROGATED ME, HE
ASKED ME WHAT THE EMBASSY OF U.S.S.R. SAY
WHAT DID you HEARD IN VIENNA, AUSTRIA,
I SAID I HAVE HEARD THAT ONE AMERICAN
DEFECTOR (MR. LEE HARVEY OSWALD) TO RUSSIA
AND HE RETURNED TO UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA THIS MAN HE PREPARING TO KILL
TO ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY,
MR. SMITH POLICE OFFICER ASKED ME
Do YOU KNOW HIS NAME, I SAID HIS NAME
START ON "O" HIS NAME WAS PUBLISHED
ONE TIME IN NEWS PAPER IN WASHINGTON
POST MR, SMITH POLICE OFFICER SAID
IT EASY TO FIND.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

I DO SEARCHING FOR THIS FILE IN BRITISH
POLICE BRITISH INTELLIGENCE AND BRITISH
IMMIGRATION, JASKING YOUR EMBASSY TO
HELP TO FIND THE TRUTH AND I ASK YOUR
GOVERNMENT TO FORWARD My RECORD
JULY 18, 1963 TO PRESIDENT JIMMY CARTER
AND SENATOR DANIEL K. INOUYE CHAIRMAN
21. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON IN LILI
GENCE I ENCLOSE HIS Copy LETTER TO
ALSO I ENCLOSE YOU copy LETTER IS, NT
ON FEBRUARY 17, 1978 TO RUSSIAN ANASSA.
YOUR JUSTICE ALWAYS WILL BE APPRECIATED
MY INCOMING MAIL iS CONTROL BY (
FBI. AGENTS SOME OF THE MAIL I DENY
GET NOT FORWARD TO ME FBI, Suppress
My INFORMATION AND TORTURE ME DRUG
RESPECTFULLY YOURS
"21.S. PASSPORT No.D02.7000 Sergyj (зочин...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

copy. 10
BRITISH AMBASSADOR

Sergyj Czornonoh
1106 - 11th Street
Sacramento, California 95814

To Russian Ambassador
Embassy of U.S.S.R.
1125 - 16th Street
Washington, D. C.

Dear Sir:

This is retyped letter from hand written

Mr. Wasilev Consul gave me order to transmit this information to U. S. Government, on August 9, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria. Mr. Wasilev, Consul of Embassy of U.S.S.R., gave me this information about Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald on August 14, 1963. Mrs. Besera Asenova, girl friend of Russian Consul came to my room and repeated that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assassin. He will kill President Kennedy.

On August 15, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the airport in embassy car, I told to Mr. Blackshire, American Vice Consul, that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assissin. He has a weapon or has ordered one. Mr. Blackshire said it seems like he will kill someone. I said that Mr. Lee H. Oswald is preparing to kill President of the United States, John F. Kennedy. Mr. Blackshire said where will it happen. I said they (right wing) will invite President, criticize him in the newspaper, then kill him. Mr. Blackshire told me he will give the telegram to Department of State and he gave me the address where to report.

At 9 a.m. on August 19, 1963 in Washington, D. C., I went to see (Mr. Kippingan). Director of Special Counselor Service Department of State at 1901 Pennsylvania Avenue-11th floor. I told the Director that I have information about President Kennedy. The Director said do not mention name of President Kennedy, only respond to the questions. The Director said tell us what will happen to Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald then. I said Mr. Lee H. Oswald will be killed after kill Kennedy. I said I will take the truth drug to tell the truth. Director tell us who else get killed in this country. I said as I heard, that Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. will be killed. Who will kill Dr. King, Jr. Negro leader? I said a man who is in prison at this time. (Mr. James Earl Ray was in prison at that time.) Director asked where assassination will happen. I said in Dallas, Texas. Director said if someone gave this information here I would expel the man. Director did call on F.B.I. agents after F.B.I. use anesthesia gas to freeze me to drub me to keep amnesia.

I told Director Department of State that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald have a weapon. Go see him. Director told me you too can have weapon--so what if Oswald got weapon.

Sincerely,

Sergyj Czornonoh
U.S. Passport 0027000

U.S House of Representatives
Select Committee on Assassinations told me to write letter to Embassy in early 1977.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Sergyj Czornonoh
Regis Hotel
1106 11th Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

CITY MANAGERS
ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS
BRITISH EMBASSY

February 6, 1978

Mr. John M. Price
District Attorney
Sacramento, California

Dear Mr. Price:

This is a retyped letter. I visited Mr. Ferry , Deputy District Attorney, on August 16, 1977. I told in the office that F.B.I. agents and Secret Service use police department to harass me.. Police department do supply pencil of anesthesia gas to the manager of the building I live. The manager door use certain people, to freeze me by anesthesia gas -- then push druga, poison in my mouth to torture me to take my aleep away or bleed by rectal and they use many other chemicals to brainwash me to use me in political assassination which I refused. On January 20, 1976 in Sacramento on 8th and I Streets, man came to me from police or post office, U.S. Department of Justice and freeze me by gas and told me to take gun, pistol and we will tell you where to go to shoot - to kill - Mr. Sargent Shriver. I refused. Manager, Mr. Sisel, of Marshall Hotel, call on the man to tell me this on the street. In February 1976, police intelligence told me that assassination will not happen here. How about to move to Maryland state.

In this letter I ask you to get report from Dr. Frederick S. Baker, M.D. - colon and rectal surgery on January 31, 1978. His phone - 452-4095. I do bleed today very much and I am weak, In this letter I ask you to give re- strain order or respond to me what could be done. The right wing in America made record to use me in assassination. I refuse. I am human and I like to be treated as human. Police put frame up on me just to take advantages on me. Police use lie, police use mental case to take advantages on me and tell me that right wing do use such people like me. To prove I enclose copy mid- night June 14, 1976. Also I enclose copy letter I sent. to Mr. Ted Sheedy, Supervisor, on January 26, 1978 and copy of his reply to me.

Please respond to me. Thank you.

Very truly yours

Sergyj Czornonoh

Sergyj. Czornonoh

Mr. Sargent Shriver was run for President in 1976.

Sergyj zorno


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Legal Center For The Disabled

1722 J STREET, SUITE 19 SACRAMENTO, CA 95814
Telephone: 446-4851

March, 1978

Sergyj Czornonoh
1106 11th Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear Mr. Czornonoh:

This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter regarding difficulties you have encountered with the police and the FBI.

In the event that there is legal action taken by the police or the FBI to institutionalize you this office will provide you with legal representation.

If you have any further legal problems please contact this office.

Sincerely,

Leslie Kay
LESLIE KAY
Paralegal

CATHERINE HUGHES
Staff Attorney

LK: ab


> [Figure: Image of a registered mail sticker affixed to the letter. The sticker has handwritten information and a postmark. The postal stamp shows 'POSTMARK OF SACRAMENTO, FEB 15 1978, STATE CAPITOL STA.']


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)