# 104-10290-10046 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

201-20-8:

30 Dec 63 22 03

RIDGEN

X

86520

RYBAT TYPI AMROD

WE HAVE SCANILING WRITE LETTER EXBODYING FOLLOWING IDEAS:

"EXCELENCIA

AS YOU MAY KNOW FOR SEVERAL MONTHS I HAVE BEEN ENGAGING

IN PURCHASING VARIOUS COMMERCIAL ITEMS FOR MR SINOBAS AND MR.

VEGA OF YOUR EMBASSY: FOR A MEMBER OF MONTHS THESE PURCHASES WENT

VERY WELL AND I BELIEVE BOTH YOUR GOVERNMENT AND I WERE SATISFIED

SINCE THE DEPARTURE OF SA, HOWEVER,

I HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO CARRY ON MY BUSINESS WITH THEM IN A NORMAL

MANNER. I HAVE COME TO MUCH TROUBLE TO GATHER ARTICLES THAT

THEY WERE INTERESTED IN AND TO DELIVER THEM, AS INSTRUCTED; YET,

NOW THREE WEEKS AFTER MAKING MY LAST DELIVERY I HAVE STILL NOT BEEN PAID

REQUEST THAT MR. SINOBAS OR HIS APODERADO IN THIS CITY BE INFORMED

THAT I BADLY NEED THE MONEY AND CANNOT MAKE FURTHER DELIVERIES UNTIL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIFU MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE TWO

INFO

CITE DIR

ROUTINE

"I ALEG BEQUEST THAT TRIS LETOER BE AND

POSABLE AND I ROPE NEITHER YOUR GOVECUMENT FOR I WILL ER CAFORT
DATA DOST THE AMERICAN RATIOMS ALL BARAK BELATIŠEIN
WITH CUBA. I HAWR FOU AT HT WALKRITES A FUEEN OF ITEMS
SINODAS AND 2R. VINDA ORDERED AND WILL ELLIVER TEES AF 8000 AS
THE CHECK ARDIVES AND OUR ACCOUNTS LIQUIDATED.

HADOO TULIO RODRIGUES"

2. PLEASE DATE AND SEND 7 DECESEER VIA REGISTERED SAIL TO
   SR. JOAQUIN KEHNANDEZ ARMAS, FRANCISCO MARQUEZ 180, COLONIA
   CONDESA, DE, ES DEG OROPEZA PO BOX AS RETURN ADDRESS, IF OROPEZA
   BOR SERVICING 6 DЕСКИВЕЯ СИГRUPECTIVE.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature]

![signature]

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)