# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

AD Memo No. 9862
12 April 1963

FROM: Chief, WH/4/Argentina

TO: Mr. (Robert Fambriini) 03

SUBJECT: Transmittal of (Nicaraguan) Ordinary Passport in Alias
for Use by AMWHALE-1 - AB Case No. 6937

REFERENCE: WH Memorandum dated 5 April 1963, same subject

1. Transmitted herewith for use as outlined in Reference are the following two documents issued in (alias) for AMWHALE-1: (Nicaraguan) Ordinary Passport No. 66701 and U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Form I-94 (stapled in the passport, page 9). Also furnished herewith is a travel itinerary on which AMWHALE-1 should be briefed *before* he applies for the Argentina visa in New York.

2. In keeping with arrangements made by IOD/AD, the Medical Office is preparing, for direct delivery to WH/4, the International Vaccination Certificate in alias to be used with the above documents. This certificate should be checked for accuracy as to name, place and date of issue. It is also understood that AMWHALE-1 will have received a bona fide smallpox vaccination prior to departing from the U.S.

3. IOD/A3 prepared the above (Nicaraguan) passport on the strength of information that (BIOGENESIS) could instruct an Argentine Consular post in the U.S. to place a visa in the passport. The document was prepared in one week from date of request because of operational urgency. The requirement specified use of a (Central American) passport. To avoid placing a long, time-consuming simulated itinerary in the passport, it was given a recent issuance date, which necessitated issuance on the basis of exemplars issued nearly one year earlier (the most recent cases available). This short itinerary also would seem to make application at this time in the U.S. for an Argentina visa somewhat unusual. Since we are now informed that AMWHALE-1 is to obtain his Argentine visa without (BIOGENESIS) assistance we wish to waive the limitations of the documentation provided for this operation, and agreed to by Mr. Fambrini, a matter of record. This confirms discussion with Mr. Fambrini. A telephone check with the Argentine Embassy by KI indicated that a (Nicaraguan) transient in the U.S. can obtain an Argentine visa in this country.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

b. It is understood that the passport will be needed for about six months, following which it is to be returned to RED/AB. Should further operational need exist for this document beyond that time, it must be borne in mind that the expiration date is 7 March 1959 and that annual revalidations are needed from that time forward. Any such revalidations would have to be entered by RED/AB. Also, use of this passport for travel other than that originally intended (direct from U.S. to Argentina and back within six months) will require careful scrutiny by RED/AB of the situation at the time of the intended future travel.

03

5. In accordance with verbal arrangements between Kezere. (Febrini) (Thalen) please pass on to RED/AB details of AKWILD-l's procurement of the Argentine visa and any other travel control events of significance in the use of this passport so that RED/AB may gain from the experience of this agent in the use of this alias document.

6. Any further questions concerning this case should be referred to the undersigned or to Miss (Ina Japilins) on extension 1531.

(Patrick J. Thalan)

Attachment: 1 Envelope (b/u)
11 (Licensing) Passport,
Travel Itinerary

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressees
1 - C/CI/A23 (Info)

Feb 12 I 56H .28

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)