# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contatza information affecting the National Defense of the Le United States within the meaning of the
18, U.S.C. beca 3 and Tof the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to in cauthorised person

## SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT (fnu) RELOVA

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00704-64

DATE DISTR 1 September 1964

DATE OF 1964

NO. PAGES 2

PLACE OF Washington, D. C.
INFO

REFERENCES

DATE ACQ August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ASS DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban
Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments:

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

(fnu) RELOVA, pseudonym "Wilberto," is an officer of the
Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of
Intelligence - DGI) in Cuba. He resides at Calle 15 number
2419, Reparto Juan Manuel Marquez, Palya de Santa Fe, Mariano,
Habana. 1,2,3,4,5,6

Headquarters Comments

1.  An airline passenger manifest revealed that one Osvaldo
    RELOVA Penichet, probably identical with the above Subject,
    left Mexico for Habana on 8 July 1963 and was the holder
    of Cuban passport number D/63/415.

2.  An official Jamaican source in a report dated 16 October 1963,
    stated that Osvaldo RELOVA, the First Secretary of the
    Cuban Embassy in Canada, arrived in Kingston on 14 October 1963.
    He was in Kingston for one week and lived at the Cuban
    Consulate office. RELOVA was reportedly making an inspection
    trip. RELOVA was born on 13 August 1930, in Habana. His
    home address was given as 15M 2419 Santa Fe, Habana. He
    carried Cuban passport number D/63/415, issued in Habana
    on 17 June 1963.

## SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

| STATE | DIA      | ARMY   | NAVY | AIR | NSA | IXXY | CCR | FBI 2 |
| ----- | -------- | ------ | ---- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | ----- |
| REP   | CINCLANT | CINCSO | I&NS |     |     |      |     |       |

(Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".)


|        | /SA/EOD  VE/5/R                    | CI/LIA   | 1 IE(CANADA)  | LX-1650            |
| ------ | ---------------------------------- | -------- | ------------- | ------------------ |
|        | /SA/JOB VE/MADR                    | 2 CI/R&A | 3 LE(BRITISH) | NO PROJECT(AMMUG/1 |
|        | /SA/R                              |          | L/WASHABR     | CSCI-313//00704-64 |
|        | /SA/CI                             |          | RID/AN        |                    |
|        | EL/WAVE                            |          |               | COORDINATING:      |
| TOTALS | WH/SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CI 4, RID 1 | LIAISON: | MIK:LD:swk    |                    |
|        |                                    |          |               | C/R&A              |

201-73713S


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

3. In a report dated 19 October 1963, source unknown, it was stated that one Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet was appointed administrator of "Envases del Cerro, S.A." firm, located at Calzada del Cerro Avenue, Habana.

4. A fairly reliable source, in a report dated 23 October 1963, revealed that Osvaldo RELOVA, First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada, left Kingston for Toronto on 21 October 1963, on TCA flight number 885.

5. An official Canadian sourced, in a report dated 26 November 1963, said that Osvaldo RELOVA Penichet, born on 13 August 1930, was not the First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Canada as previous reports stated. Rather, RELOVA, who was a frequent visitor to Canada, traveled as an "Embassy Inspector." He carried Cuban Diplomatic passport D/63/415 with Mexican visa number OF-7090; he had no Canadian visa. The address on his passport was given as 15/3 number 2419, Santa Fe Banch (sic), Habana. RELOVA entered Canada on 16 August 1963, destined to visit Jesus YANES Rodriguez, Cuban Commerical Attache in Montreal. He departed Canada for Mexico on 25 August 1963, in the company of Alberta MENDUCA.

6. A former Cuban Intelligence officer who has been living in the United States since 1963 and whose reporting over the past nine months has proven reliable, gave the following information on 21 July 1964, on Osvaldo RELOBA Penechet (presumably identical with RELOVA):

   In early 1961, RELOBA was an administrator of a section of the Consolidated Hardware Stores and annexes. In late 1961 he went to see source to get help with an investigation on a Mr. BARRAL, Administrator of the Consolidated (sic). RELOBA was requesting source's aid in the belief that source was still working for G-2; source did not tell him otherwise. RELOBA is a new Communist who wants to be more than MARX.and. is trying to instruct everyone around him. Source said that RELOBA was born about 1934, is 164 pounds, five feet nine inches in height, has a medium thin build, a long face, and a long thin neck. He has dark eyes, black hair, is partially bald, and has a small, thin mustache.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)