14-00000
104-10183-10232
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


SENDER WILL CHE
CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS   | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ------------------ | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | Bill Wainwright]03 |      |          |
| 2   |                    |      |          |
| 3   |                    |      |          |
| 4   |                    |      |          |
| 5   |                    |      |          |
| 6   | Bryant 03          |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

06
RS attached on AMWHIF-1 and Stege man

Flease get word to A-l that 06 to get as much info from him on his current situation in Brazil, who he knows in Cuban community and Cubans he knows in Cuba. Naturally, without exposing his (A-l's) connections with us.

NC/5 will handle contact with Charlie Davis 03 and subsequent contact, if ary, with tegel.
06


FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO | DATE |
| -------------------------------- | ---- |
| Зос В.                           |      |

| UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------ |

FORM NO
2-61 237 Use previous editions
140


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Chief, WHD X

Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro

PERSONEN
Subject of 201-720615

AR: Paragraph 2.

Refs: A. HBRM-5816
B. HERA-11177

1. Subject applied for, and was granted on 29 April 1964, a 15-day tourist visa to the United States. He told the consular officer that he planned to leave on about 10 May for France, where he planned to stay for a month or more before going to the United States. He plans to contact the following friends there:

Mr. and Mrs. Henri Masliah
110-33 72nd Ave.
Forest Hills 75
New York.

Mr. and Mrs. John Duys
1 East 66th St.
New York 21, New York

Mr. and Mrs. H. Gilbert Smith
Dockboard
2 Canal St.
New Orleans, La.

2. If Subject also contacts ALEHIP-1, it is requested that the latter debrief him on his PERSONEN contacts here and, if he appears to be operationally useful, that a contact be set up in Rio de Janeiro, as requested in Reference B.

Distribution:
4- WHD
2- Files
jcd
30 April 1964

Harry V. WITHERSY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)