# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO BE OPENED BY ADDRESSEE ONLY

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division

ATTENTION: Mr. Leonard Libby, WH/SA/CI

THRU: Mr.(Walter Richardson)
Room GH 44

FROM: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Operational Support)

SUBJECT: COVERT SITE
Apartment G 32
Summit Hills Apartments
$500 -16th Street..
Silver Spring, Maryland
#353 598

26 JUN 1964

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 19 May 1964 to the Chief, Safehouse Procurement. Branch, Office of Logistics. This memorandum requested the procurement of a safehouse to be occupied by a Latin American. The safehouse was to be located in the Bethesda, Maryland area.

2. This will confirm verbal security approval provided the Safehouse Procurement Branch by this office for the use of the Subject. Covert Site. Forwarded herewith is a report dated 18 June 1964 of the security survey conducted on the Subject premises. Your attention is directed to Section VI on Page 2 of this report which lists possible security hazards. This is brought to your attention so that you will be able to take appropriate action to prevent any compromise of activities at the Subject Covert Site.

3. For your information a search of Office of Security Indices in the names of the individuals listed in the attached report has failed to reveal ary additional noteworthy or derogatory information identifiable with them.

4. Under no circumstar.ces may classified material be stored in the Subject Covert Site. In addition, the Subject Covert Site may not be loaned to or utilized by another component of the Agency without the prior concurrence of the Central Cover Staff, the Safehouse Procurement Branch, Crice of Logistics and this office.

SECRET

![Excited ves bes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

5. It is requested that the attached report be returned to this office in a sealed envelope marked, "To Be Opened By Addressee Only" when your office has no further need for it.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

![signature of Victor R. White] Victor R. White

Attachment:
Report dated 18 June 1964

cc: Central Cover Staff
Safehouse Procurement Branch

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

OFFICE OF SECURITY
Support Division

REPORT
OF
INVESTIGATION

CONSISTING OF
REPORTS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

FILE NO. 782 303 DATE 18 June 1964

SYNOPSIS

I.

The SUBJECT SITE is located in the east wing on the ground floor of an apartment building known as 660 16th Street. The building is located in a large apartment development, known as Summit Hills Apartments and is located a short distance off of 16th Street, a main 24 Washington thoroughfare...and East-West highway Route 24 Transportation and personal service facilities are readily available. Telephone service is on an individual subscriber basis. Fire and police protection are adequate. Only possible. Security hazard noted for SUBJECT SITE is the proximity of SUBJECT SITE'S windows to possible penetration from automobiles parked in an adjacent parking lot and people located at ground level on the outside of the SUBJECT SITE. Biographical data on the occupants of apartments in or adjacent to SUBJECT SITE are contained in the related report.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

## II. DESCRIPTION OF AREA

The SUBJECT SITE building is located in a modern, middle-class apartment development known as 24 Summit Hills Apartments, which is located along a main thoroughfare of Washington, D.C., 11th Street and Route (10) East-West highway. The SUBJECT SITE building is located in Montgomery County, Maryland. To the south of the SUBJECT SITE building is another apartment building known as 11th Street, Summit Hills Apartments) 24 which is located approximately fifty yards south of the SUBJECT SITE building. Between 11th Street. and SUBJECT SITE building is located a large parking lot. Access to this parking lot, which is parallel to the east wing of the SUBJECT SITE BUILDING, can be gained from either East-West highway Route (103) by proceeding in a westerly direction or from 11th Street 324 a divided highway, which allows entrance to the parking lot for southbound vehicles only. Far to the west and north of SUBJECT SITE buildings are additional apartment buildings and terrain areas to the east of SUBJECT SITE building. 11th Street) SUBJECT SITE building is laid out in the form of a cross, with wings extending north, south, east, and west. SUBJECT SITE is located in the extreme southeast corner of the east wing of SUBJECT SITE building. D.C. Transit bus service is available along East-West highway and at the parking lot located in close proximity to SUBJECT SITE is a bus stop for D.C. Transit. This parking lot is located directly north of the east wing of SUBJECT SITE building. Taxi cab service is also available. Complete personal services are located approximately ½ mile away in Silver Spring, Maryland which can be reached by traveling east on Route (10) A bulk of parking area for automobiles surrounds the SUBJECT SITE building.

## III. DESCRIPTION OF SITE

No interior insection of the SUBJECT SITE was conducted. SUBJECT SITE may be entered through the main entrance located midway on the south side of the east wing of the SUBJECT SITE building.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

383 598

SUBJECT SITE is located on the ground level of the SUBJECT SITE building. No elevators are located at the rear of the lobby and a stairway to all floors of SUBJECT SITE building is located at the extreme east end of the east wing.

IV COMMUNICATION SYSTEM

Telephone service is provided by Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company on an individual subscriber basis.

V. FIRE AND POLICE PROTECTION

Police protection is afforded by the Montgomery County Police Department which has substation located on Georgia Avenue in Silver Spring, Maryland. Fire protection is afforded by the Silver Spring Fire Department.

VI. POSSIELE SECURITY HAZARDS

SUBJECT SITE is located on the ground floor of SUBJECT SITE building (below ground level) and, thus, SUBJECT SITE'S windows are at ground level. Visual and technical penetration may be possible from the land area surrounding, SUBJECT SITE building and from the parking lot located approximately fifteen yards to the south of SUBJECT SITE building and SUBJECT SITE. No other security hazards were noted and the closest building to SUBJECT SITE building approximately fifty yards away.

VII. OUTLINE OF EXHIBITS

Exhibit A - diagram depicting SUBJECT SITE building and area surrounding it.

Exhibit B - diagram of ground level floor of SUBJECT SITE building.

VIII. BIOGRAPHICAL DATA

Apartment G 10.

This apartment is occupied by one Michael R. (SCHRIER) born 1932 in Maryland and married to Joan. (SCHRIER) has been employed for years as an investigator by Paul M. SACHS, 520 Connecticut Avenue, N.W. who is further


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

383 598

described by credit sources as an attorney specializing
in investment/consolidation. Additional information indicates
that (SCHRIER) previously resided at (118 Perry Place) and was
previously employed by (The WIGWAM) General (cig) shop. No
detrimental credit information, police information, or
House Committee on Un-American Activities records were
reflected in the name of (SCHRIER) or his wife.

Apartment 118 (located directly over SUBJECT SITE)

This apartment is the residence of (Esther JOLLES)
white female born (22 December 1892 in Russia) and her
daughter (Mildred JOLLES) white female for whom two dates
of birth are listed: (17 May 1924) and (2 March 1917) born
New York. (Esther JOLLES) is the widow of (Joseph I. JOLLES)
whom Montgomery County Health Department records reflected
died of natural causes on 23 June 1960. Mr. (JOLLES) was
formerly the president of the Maryland Belt Parkway
Development Inc., Silver Springs, Maryland, and the (North
Portal Construction Company). A previous address of (505
15th Street, NW) is reflected for (Joseph I. JOLLES)
(Mildred JOLLES) and (Esther JOLLES)

Of Immigration and Naturalization records reflected
that (Esther JOLLES) received a certificate of citizenship
through derivative means of (11 March 1961). (Esther JOLLES)
is not a naturalized citizen but received her certificate
of citizenship through her father. Her Immigration and
Naturalization file, derivative number (A-102705) alien
number (121:577200) is located in Baltimore, Maryland. (Esther
JOLLES) is employed as a homemaker. Credit sources reflect
a credit rating ranging from poor to satisfactory in the
name of (Joseph I.) and (Esther JOLLES)

(Mildred JOLLES) daughter of (Esther JOLLES) is
employed as an analyst by the Quartermaster Corps. Depart-
ment of the Army, Pentagon. An additional address of
(Second and D Streets SW) is also reflected for (Mildred
JOLLES) employment. (Mildred JOLLES) came to Washington
from New York on 31 August 1947, is single, and has no
dependents. Credit sources reflect poor to satisfactory
credit rating in the name of (Mildred JOLLES). No record
for either (Mildred JOLLES) or (Esther JOLLES) was reflected
at appropriate police agencies and the House Committee on
Un-American Activities.

ESC 1e/

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)