2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

235

DATE : 17 DEC 60

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : LEOPOLOVILLE

ACTION: C/AF 3 (MR HOUCK AF DIV NOTIFIED 1515 17 DEC)

INFO : COP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

ROUTING

DEC 17 18562 60

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 18739

OPIM DIR CITE LEOP-0478--

RYBAT WIROGUE

REF A. DIR 16116 (*Out 52272*)

B. BERN 6595- IN 15973)

C. BERN:6537 (IN 49492)*

1. VIROGUE EOD 2 DEC. HESTON MADE INITIAL CONTACT AND GUTHMAN NOW HANDLING. VIROGUE GIVEN FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS:

A. BUILD COVER DURING INITIAL PERIOD. THIS RESPECT, WIROGUE SAID PLANNED SET UP SHOP WITH AUTOMATIC CAMERA TO TAKE IDENTIFICATION PICTURES. SAID WOULD INSTALL POLAROID CAMERA SO CLIENT COULD PUSH BUTTON AND TAKE OWN PICTURE. GUTHMAN AGREED THIS WORTH EXPLORING, AS WOULD APPEAR PROVIDE INEXPENSIVE COVER.

B. WIROGUE TOLD TRY SPOT PERSONS FOR SURVEILLANCE TEAM, INTEL ASSELS (WITH EMPHASIS ON ORIENTALE PROVINCE) AND PM ASSETS. HE TOLD SUBMIT NAMES ANY LIKELY CANDIDATES TO STATION FOR TRACES PRIOR MAKING APPROACH.

2. QJWIN WHO RESIDES SAME HOTEL AS VIROGUE REPORTED LATTER TOLD HIM HE HAD LIVED ALASKA, JAPAN, SOUTH AMERICA, GERMANY AND OTHER PARTS EUROPE. OUWIN SAID WIROQUE SMELLED AS THOUGH HE IN INTEL BUSINESS. STATION DENIED ANY INFO ON WIROGUE. 14 DEC QJWIN

**SECRET**

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

COF 478
18739 PAGE 2

REPORTED VIROGUE HAD OFFERED HIM THREE HUNDRED DOLLARS PER MONTH TO PARTICIPATE IN INTEL NET AND BE MEMBER "EXECUTION SQUAD".
WHEN OUVIN SAID HE NOT INTERESTED, VIROGUE ADDED THERE WOULD BE BONUSES FOR SPECIAL JOBS. UNDER OJWIN QUESTIONING, VIROGUE LATER SAID HE WORKING FOR PBPRIME SERVICE.

3. QJVIN INTRODUCED VIROGUE TO HOFNUIS. VIROGUE CASED IN

LETTER CREDIT WITH HOFHUIS TO GET GOOD EXCHANGE RATE. OJWIN REPORTS WIROGUE HAS PURCHASED THREE AUTOMOBILES SINCE ARRIVAL LEOP:
CHRYSLER FOR 85000 FRANCS, CITROEN FOR 25000 FRANCS AND TRIUMPH FOR 110000 FRANCS. VIROGUE TOLD OUWIN HE SOLD CITROEN FOR 15000 FRANCS BUT IT STILL PARKED NEAR HIS HOTEL.

4. AT 13 DEC MEETING VIROGUE SAID HE PURCHASED CHRYSLER FOR 75000 FRANCS. MADE NO MENTION PURCHASE OTHER CARS. ALSO SAID HAD RENTED TWO STORES, ONE IN LEOP EUROPEAN CITY FOR 14000 FRANCS PER MONTH AND ONE IN NATIVE CITY FOR 6000 FRANCS PER MONTH. ALSO HAS SIGNED CONTRACT FOR APARTMENT FOR 8000 FRANCS PER MONTH. ASKED GUTHMAN FOR THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS RENTAL ALLOWANCE WHICH HE CLAIMS. HOS CASE OFFICER TOLD HIM HE WOULD RECEIVE IN LUMP SUM. GUTHMAN REFUSED, SAYING WOULD HAVE OBTAIN HOS APPROVAL PAY RENTAL ALLOWANCE IN LUMP SUM.

5. IN DISCUSSING LOCAL CONTACTS, WIROGUE MENTIONED QUWIN BUT DID NOT ADMIT TO HAVING TRIED RECRUIT HIM. THEN GUTHMAN TRIED LEARN WHETHER VIROGUE HAD MADE APPROACH LATTER CLAMED HAD TAKEN NO STEPS. GUTHMAN WAS UNABLE CONTRADICT, AS DID NOT WISH REVEAL OJVIN CONNECTION XUBARK.

6. LEOP CONCERNED BY VIROGUE FREE WHEELING AND LACK SECURITY. STATION HAS ENOUGH HEADACHES WITHOUT WORRYING ABOUT AGENT WHO NOT

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

ABLE HANDLE FINANCES AND WHO NOT VILLING FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS. IF HOS DESIRES, WILLING KEEP HIM ON PROBATION, BUT IF CONTINUE HAVE DIFFICULTIES, BELIEVE VIROGUE RECALL BEST SOLUTION. ALTER-NATIVE WOULD DE PUT HIM IN STAN ONCE MENUCHIN RETURNS TO TRY OBTAIN IMMEDIATE INTEL THAT AREA.

7. REQUEST HOS INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR 1300Z, 19 DEC RE GIVING

VIROGUE YEARS RENTAL ALLOWANCE. LATTER CLAIMS NEEDS THESE FUNDS VIEW CAR PURCHASE IN ORDER SET UP COVER MECHANISM. IF VIROGUE TO REMAIN, BELIEVE MUST GIVE HIM AT LEAST ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS, AS BELIEVE HE SHORT FUNDS. ALSO REQUEST INSTRUCTIONS DE VIROGUE PAY. LATTER SAYS HIS CONTRACT CALLS FOR FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS SALARY PER MONTH. SAID HE NOT PAID FOR NOVEMBER. STATION GAVE HIM ONE PAYMENT FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS. HOWEVER WISH HOS CONFIRMATION THIS CORRECT AND AUTHORITY PAY HIM IN DOLLARS PER HIS REQUEST. (VANTS DOLLARS AS BLACK MARKET EXCHANGE RATE WHICH USED BY MOST PERSONS HERE TWENTY TO FORTY PERCENT BETTER THAN OFFICIAL RATE).

8. NOT ABLE PICK UP LETTER CREDIT PER REF A. VIROGUE SAID HAD GIVEN IT TO HOFHUI FOR RETURN TO BANK AFTER MARKING IT CANCELLED.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: WIROGUE 1 ETA LEOP 2 DEC. HAS LETTER OF CREDIT FOR 12,000 SWISS FRANCS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
SE ONLY CONT DENTIAL

☑ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

REQUEST NO: REQUEST DATE:

FROM: EXTENSION NO:
RID/Files RA
GC 52 DATE 29 aoul 69

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show trom whom
building) INITIALS RECEIVED FORWARDED to sham. Draw a line ocross column after each comment.)

1. RID/ARO/RCU WJ BULKY

2. unprocessed field
   material

3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. CALL PID FILES, EXT. 6867
    FOR TEACHOCHES. RECORDS
    TER JO, 67-492

11. OSA NO. 2

12. 
13. 
14. 
15. RID/Files FILE IN 201-233477
    GC 52

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS ☑ SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
3-32 (OP..24) USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

## SECRET

![form with several fields]

1.  The following report, and a request for full traces, has been received from the BIVs:

"Since 14 July 1962,

![signature]

04058. X SANDERS

CT-USSR

IP: 25 July 1919 in Tiflis, USSR

Present Address: Memursel

has been in the protection of a US Service in Oberursel, after allegedly breaking away from a Soviet tourist group and fleeing from East to West Berlin. On August 23, 1962, SANDERS made application for recognition as a foreign non-German refugee. The following day, in the presence of a member of the U.3. Service, Subject was examined by the Criminal Police. In the hearing, he made and statements concerning his flight.

SANBERS related that he was a leading member of a resistance group in the Soviet Union. He claims he enlisted the assistance of friends who arranged for him to join a Soviet tourist group which left Tiflis on 10 July 1962 for a sightseeing trip in East Berlin. He arrived in East Berlin on 14 July 1962 and SANDERS allegedly contacted them after his arrival. Subj. applied 28 Aug. 62 for recognition.

"SANDERS declined to offer more specific information concerning his flight to West Berlin. Allegedly, the manner in which his friends were able to arrange for his trip is also unknown to him.

We would appreciate all information on SANDERS available to you, as well as copies of any interrogation reports which have been issued since his arrival at Oberursel."

2.  There are no local traces. Copies of the BIV report are being sent to the ID USAREUR representative, OCA, since it would appear that.

Judith G. Frindall

![signature]

Dist's:

2 CO3-0

1 ES

2 BCB

SECRET

OFFICER

16 Jan 63

SONA-2503

![signature]

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

HQ COPY

DISPATCH

66-266/26 Inders 9-23 GESP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

CO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

ZIZISCHWILLI, /FUERST/
201-0233477
SEX M 008 02 MAY 19
POB USSR, TIFLIS

201-0233477
MUNI-05728
06 APR 66

< W GERMANY, KOELN.
AKA SANDERS, GEORG FRANK
BND SECURITY TRACE REQUEST
SUBJ IN CONTACT W/BND STAFFER

WAS ZIZISCHWILLI, FUERST
DATE 12 JUN 75 CORR CARD

04823438

WIROGUE/1

201-6233477

5/29/7
By

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

INDEX: YES d. 101-233477

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE B

FILE: P/DO. PET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

SECRET

FROM
MUNICH

ACTION
EE 6 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY

INFO
FILE, VR, CI/OPS, FI/INTZ, RI/AN.

SECRET 0612432
BONN INFO DIR CITE MUNI 5728

CATIDE UJVAULT.

1. CATIDE REQUESTS SECURITY TRACES ON FUERST ZIZISCHWILLI, AKA GEORG FRANK SANDERS, BORN 2 MAY 19 IN TIFLIS, USSR, RESIDING KOELN, WHO IN CONTACT WITH CAIIDE STAFFER. FROM STATEMENTS MADE BY SUBJ CATIDE BELIEVES HE KUBARK EMPLOYED. PLS ADVISE.

2. NO MUNI TRACES SUBJ.

3. INDEX ZIZISCHWILLI.

MICROFILMED
MAY A 1966

SECRET

CFN: 5728 FUERS: ZIZISCHWILLI AKA GEORG FRANK SANDERS 2 MAYS TIFLIS USSR KOELN KUBARK PLS NO MUNI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT. IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO. 32u-5-25/7

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. FRAN-3145 (IN-72897) 4. DATE 8 APR 66.

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

CATIDE/UJVAULT

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Ref: Muni-5728(IN-91195)

Subject Ref was Harvard Agent Disposal

Case WIROGUE. He dropped without prejudice on 8 June 1964

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-233477

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

CATIDE CABEZONE WIROGUE

|                                                            |                    |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| 2. RI-FILE NO. 32W                                         | 5  25 7            |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. BONN-2534 (IN 92176) | 4. DATE 7 April 66 |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION         |                    |
| 5. ANALYST                                                 | 6. DATE PROCESSED  |
| 10: DISSEMINATED IN                                        | 11. DATE           |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |
| 201-233477                      |                                 |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

REF: MUNI-5728 (IN 91195)

1.  RE REF WIROGUE FORMER CABEZONE DISPOSAL CASE. CAVATA PREVIOUSLY INFORMED OUR INTEREST IN SUBJECT HOWEVER BACKGROUND NEVER PASSED TO GERMANS.

2.  DEFER FRAN RESPONSE TO CATIDE. RECOMMENT WE ADMIT FORMER INTEREST IN SUBJECT BUT ADVISE CATIDE WE HAVE NO CURRENT INTEREST IN HIM AND RECOMMENT THEY KEEP HIM AT ARMS LENGTH.

15. 
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

CATIDE UJVAULT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO. 32W 5 25 7

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. DATE
MUNI-5728 (IN-91195) 6 April 66

SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

201-233477

DATE PROCESSED. DISSEMINATED IN DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

1.  CATIDE REQUESTS SECURITY TRACES ON FUERST ZIZISCHWILLI, AKA GEORG FRANK SANDERS, BORN 2 MAY 19 IN TIFLIS, USSR, RESIDING KOELN, WHO IN CONTACT WITH CATIDE STAFFER. FROM STATEMENTS MADE BY SUBJ CATIDE BELIEVES HE KUBARK EMPLOYED. PLS ADVISE.

2.  NO MUNI TRACES SUBJ.

3.  INDEX ZIZISCHWILLI.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-2334776
SIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
A-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID DET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY OSIS
SECRET
3
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
FROM BONN
ACTION EEG RID COPY ADVANCE COPY
FILE VR, PF7, Ca, Cales, Calica, ClCA, FI, FilDA, FILINT2 C

SECRET 101632Z
FRAN INFO DIR GENY CITE BONN 2067
CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE:
10 MAR 66 72218
CAVATA REPORTS WIROGUE LOST HIS JOB 25 JAN 66 EITHER FOR
LOAFING OR CARELESSNESS. HE AND HIS EMPLOYER AGREED ON THE
SEPARATION. HIS PRESENT EMPLOYMENT IS UNKNOWN TO CAVATA.
SECRET
CFN 2067 CAVATA WIROGUE 25 66 CAVATA
ET

SECRET

201-233477
10 mn 66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

Calef, ADEIOT/AB Chief, EL C/AF

Chief of Station, Germany

Chief, CCB/Frausfurt

AQUATIC/TINOGUE/TraGemittal of Original Derusinis - IROGUE-1

REFERENCE: A. DIE 19710, 16 Hay 1958

B. LEOP $462, 17 May 1982

C. DIA 11763, 22 8-7 1982.

D. DIB 12520, 24 bay 1962

Forvarded berevith are the original accumcate of IROQUE-1 shich were taken from him in kay 1952 as incicated in references. Tey include the Series Austrias passport which was completed by KURIOT for VIRGUE's operational use. These cocowats were recently turned over to the undertigard by AB/Legal Section who bad rotalued thon Saile procuring & backstopped Belseasveis for Subject. te forvare them to you for your material co reteation. Only a copy of the Austrian Reisepass 18s been retained in our fllca.

Jacob D. DABARO

APPROVED:

Maurice . TSEDARS

Arsachacut!

0 25yclope

Distribution:

-C/AUMIOT/AB, /att

2-CDS/Gerosay, s/o att

Cater, ab, w/o alt

A-Calet, AF, 4/9 221

ΣΟΤΑ-18973 5 Jaguary 1904

SACEAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# DISPATCH

TO Chief of Base, Sao Paulo
INFO Chief of Station, Rio de Janeiro
Chief of Station, Leopoldville
FROM Chief, Africa Division
SUBJECT Operational/ZIBRF/WIROGUE
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES See Below
HBPA-4090, dated 12 October 1960

CLASSIFICATION
S-B-C-R-E-T
RYBAT

for CSH 43-43

PROCESSING
ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
HEADQUARTERS DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
ABSTRACT

1. This is to advise you that subject of reference has been transferred to the African Division and been assigned the cryptograph WIROGUE/1. The latter is presently in Leopoldville and all correspondence received through your accommodation address is to be pouched to COS, Leopoldville.

2. WIROGUE/1 was instructed to send only unregistered letters and to instruct his correspondents to do the same.

CHARLES R. FOISTADE

PAUL B. LEIGHTON

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COB, Sao Paulo
1 - COS, Rio de Janeiro
1 - COS, Leopoldville

DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED
22 Dec 1960 DEC 28
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HBFV-2312-9572

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-233477
201-233477

CROSS REFERENCE TO

S COPY

CLASSIFICATION
L S-B-C-R-E-T

| ROUTING       | OFFICE             | ORIGINATING            | EAI.           |
| ------------- | ------------------ | ---------------------- | -------------- |
| /-RI AF/W/2   | D. Niesciur say    | 8284                   |                |
| RID/BOI CN    | OFFICE SYMBOL DATE | COORDINATING           | OFFICER'S NAME |
| RID/AP        | A/CAF/W Dec 21/60  | S Welles Edward Welles |                |
| RID/?         | C/AP Dec 21/60     | S Wein Bronson Tweedy  |                |
| RID/?         | WH/2B 230-60       |                        |                |
| RID/TO        | DEC IB 1502 H      | RELEASING              |                |
| RID/FT        | OFFICE SYMBOL DATE | OFFICER'S SIGNATURE    |                |
| C/WH 12/27/60 | R. W. Hehest       |                        |                |



500 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM WID WHICH MAY BE USED (40)

# DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Leopoldville

Chief, Africa Division

Operational/WIROGUE/1

See Below
A. ACLH-192, dated 14 November 1960
B. LBOP,0478, dated 17 December 1960
C. DIR-17181, dated 13 December 1960

1. A dispatch had been prepared outlining the various administrative and operational details pertinent to the WIROGUE project. Receipt of reference B negated its value and ve prepared this one in its stead. Suffice it to say that all steps outlined in reference A were accomplished and he was dispatched with the specific instructions outlined in paragraph 2 of reference с.

2. During WIROGUE/1's association with the undersigned, the subject of a vehicle vas raised by him. He stated he needed one to accomplish his mission. It vas süggested to him that under the present circumstances in the Congo it would not be vise to consider such a purchase until he has discussed it fully with you and received your concurrence. If he did purchase a vehicle after receiving your approval, then he would have to do it frosa his own funds and not use funds made available to him to establish his cover business. Obviously be has violated the suggestions.

3. While WIROGUE/1 was in the employment of REDWOOD, there was a communication channel set up between him and his family. This was an arrangement with a letter drop in Sao Paulo. He would write a letter, post date it, and give it opened to the Case Officer who would pouch it to the COB, Sao Paulo for mailing. Letters to WIROGUE/1 would come to a post office box in Sao Paulo where it would be serviced by ALLAMETER-2 and pouched to the Case Officer. We leave it to your discretion, as to whether or not you wish to continue this type of arrangement. Nonetheless, under separate cover, attachment A is a letter for WIROGUE/1 which was received through this channel.

4. I am cure that WIROGUE/1 will undoubtedly want you to set up a similar arrangement through Germany for him so that he may communicate with a female acquaintance of his in PBPRIME. We are not adverse to the idea of his having such a channel, but only on the condition you are able to censure

21 Dec 1960

ACLM-206

201-233477
201-233477

D. Niesciur
say
8284

Edward 0. Welles

Bronson Tweedy

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH                                                                    DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
S-E-C-R-E-T                                                                ACLH-206
RYBAT

the letters. Again we leave it to your discretion.

5. Separate Cover attachment B contains a sterile copy of the FFO.

CHARLES R. ROISTADE

PAUL E. LEIGHTON

Attachment:
A - Letter for WIROGUE/1
B - Project Outline for WIROGUE

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - Leopoldville
1 - AF/W/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Leopoldville

FROM: Chief, Africa Division

SUBJECT: Operational WIROGUE/1

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

A. DIR 08782 (OUT 86554)

B. LEOP 0225 (IN 36750)

1.  The plans end development of the WIROGUE project have reached a point whereby a summation of the progress made and the plans for the future is in order. At this writing it is anticipated that WIROGUE/1 will be on the Leopoldville scene on the first of December.

2.  WIROGUE/1 had originally been recruited in Europe for a REDSOX operation. He was flown to FBPRIME "black" and underwent an extensive training program. This included survival, small arms and other similar type PM training. After a year of such training the project failed to materialise, as a result subject vas preparing for resettlement in South America. The AF/Division took interest in WIROGUE/1 and after an assessment decided that with his peculiar background, talents and general makeup he could effectively be utilised along the lines cited in reference A. On 21 October 1960 the case was transferred officially to the Africa Division.

3.  Since that date to the present, every effort has been made to psycho- logically orient WIROGUE/1 for this assignment and to prepare him operationally for its fulfillment. To insure the security of the operation, prevent any identification with ODYOKE and/or KUBARK, and to preclude any unexpected uncovery of WIROGUE/1's past which would associate him with his pre-KUBARK life, a number of basic steps were taken. Those were:

a. WIROGUE/1 underwent plastic surgery, which changed the shape of his nose.

b. A toupee had been made for his constant use. This and the plastic surgery have altered him sufficiently to obviate any recognition.

Distribution:
2-Leopoldville

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| RID/201 | *CH*    |
| EID/AN  | *///*   |
| RUD/ME  |         |
| PID/TG  |         |
| BID/FI  |         |




SECRET

OFFICE: AF/West/2

CLASSIFICATION: RYBAT

OFFICER: Daniel Niesciur

DATE TYPED: 14 Nov. 1960

DATE DISPATCHED: 14 NOV 1960

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: ACLW-192

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER:
201-233477
201-233477

EXT: 8284

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/AF/W

OFFICER'S NAME: Lester C. Houck

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/AR

DATE: 11-16-60

RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: Bronson Tweedy

Distribution:

1 - AF/Wes/2

1 - C/AF/West

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

c. Documentation premered with accompanying cover story to show that WIROGUE/l is en Austrian and who has never had ODYOKE connections, nor ever been in FBIRIME. (See separate cover attachment A).

4. It is planned at this time to take WIROGUE/1 "black" to Germany. There he will be met by the undersigned, given his Austrian documentation, contact instructions and letter of credit, stripped of any FBIRIME clothing or personal effects, and dispatched. He is to proceed to Leopoldville on his own and upon arrival make contact. The cover assignment for subject is temporarily left open, although he has been told to look into the prospects of opening a photo or general repair shop. He has actually done photographic work but the decision on this we will leave to your on the spot judgment. The letter of credit for three thousand dollars is to be used to finance this venture. There will also be a reserve of one thousand dollars in a Swiss account should expenses necessitate a greater outlay. This money will consti- tuto an non-interest bearing, operational loan which must be repaid by WIROGUE/1 from profits over a period of years. All other profits after the loan is paid off will be WIROGUE/1'8.

5. A word about the manner of man with whom we are dealing. He is a small, energetic individual, who has displayed shrewdness, cunning, ingenuity and inventiveness. He has a peculiar turn of mind which lenis itself remarkably to nofarious and extra-legal activities. Excitement and intrigue are important factors in his life, he relishes it and as a result may be a little delicate to handle. WIROGUE/1 likes ordor and clear cut chains of command. He admires the Prussian approach and as a result will take orders even if he may disagree. It is important to him to have the trust and confidence of his case officer. If in his own mind he feels assured of this and is confident of the professional KUTUSE type competence of the CO, he will reciprocate in kind. He is indeed aware of the precepts of right and wrong, but if he is given an assignment which may be morally wrong in the eyes of the world, but necessary because his case officer ordered him to carry it out, then it 13 right and he will dutifully undertake appropriate action for its execution without pangs of conscience. In a word, he can rationalise all actions. One last thought which may be useful. Best results will probably be gotten if, when given an assignment, he be permitted to accomplish it in his own way. The latter is connected with his idea of trust and confidence.

PRR

CHARLES R. ROISTADE

LRR

PAUL E. LEIGHTON

Attachment A (under separate cover)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET CHAT

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO ACLM-192

1.  An Austrian passport, birth certificate and drivers license have been prepared for issuance containing following biographic data:

Name: George Frans REINER
POB: Salzburg, Austria
DOB: 25 July 1921
Fathers name: Frans REINER
Mothers name: Marianna nee NIKLITZ
Occupation: Engineer
Marital status: single
Height: 1 meter 70 centimeters
Weight: 58 kilo's
Eyes: Brown
Hair: Brown

Distinguishing marks: tips of forefinger and thumb right hand missing. Identical fingers left hand scarred.

2. Documents will reflect travel only in Europe, with no indication of PBPRIME tenure.

![stamp DESENSITIZED]

201-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
EGOA-18888

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.
32W-120-012/01

TO
Chief, AF VIA Chief, EE

INFO
Chief, WH

FROM
Chief of Station, Germany

DATE
12 December 1962

SUBJECT
RYBAT WIROGUE
Final Resettlement of WIROGUE

RE: "43-3"-(CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

ACTION REQUINES

REFERENCE(S)

1. WIROGUE has received political recognition from the West German
   government and is fully documented in the name of Georg Frank Sanders.
   This was accomplished with the cooperation of ODIBEX on the basis of the
   fabricated story stating that Subject is a Georgian who defected from
   East Berlin on 14 July 1962 while with a tourist group. It was necessary
   to acquire political recognition for Subject because this was the only
   sure means to backstop him if and when he applies for immigration to
   South America. A Fremdenpass would not withstand the investigation
   required by immigration authorities.

2. All the South American Consulates in West Germany were contacted
   with the assistance of CAMANTILLA in an attempt to collect information
   which would enable HARVARD to select the most likely country to which
   Subject could immigrate based on his personal preference, opportunities for
   emigrants, immigration requirements, etc. Columbia, Chile or Peru offer
   the best possibility.

3. The next step will be for Subject to apply to the appropriate
   Consulate and begin his processing. Prior to having Subject take this
   step HARVARD will require Headquarters guidance and thinking regarding the
   following:

a. Subject as a prospective emigrant will have to furnish proof
of employment or proof of financial solvency. Subject's
West German documentation indicates that he is an engineer.
This does not mean that he is a diplomaed engineer but rather
a master mechanic. This is borne out by the details of his
falsified life history and in fact by Subject's actual skills
in electrical and mechanical fields. HARVARD feels that
Subject can satisfy any South American Consulate that he is
experienced enough in electrical and mechanical fields to be
of value to the economy of the South American country of his
choice. Once Subject is admitted to South America, HARVARD
has no doubt that he can find employment if he desires it.
The ideal solution, however, would be for Subject to have a
firm offer of employment prior to his immigration. If KUBARK
can arrange this, HARVARD feels that Subject's immigration
could be practically assured. Subject could seek employment
through the German language newspaper in Santiago, Chile but
HARVARD feels that no South American firm would take the
chance of hiring him sight unseen unless he were a highly
qualified specialist.

b. If proof of employment cannot be provided, proof of solvency
is the next requirement. Only one of the South American
countries has stated what it considers to be the minimum proof
of solvency. The prospective emigrant must show that he has
the funds to subsist for two years at the rate of $125.00 per
month. HARVARD feels that to deposit $3,000 to Subject 's
account would be a grave mistake. HARVARD has no doubt that
Subject is capable of taking the money and departing for parts
unknown unless there were sufficient inducements awaiting him
in South America. HARVARD could probably arrange for a letter
attesting to the fact that Subject has $3,000 being held for
him. Subject could have been working for ODIBEX as..a..consul-
tant since his defection. The $3,000 would be bonuses and
salary.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

EGOA- 18888

c. HARVARD has not considered processing Subject for immigration through a bona fide refugee organization-in-order not to involve Subject with the United States Escapee Program and to keep from making a refugee organization a party to fraud with the possibility of embarrassing complications if the immigration does not come off properly. Working through a refugee organization would mean additional paper work and additional problems which for the present would indicate that this immigration avenue should not be considered except as a last resort.

d. When filling out his application forms Subject will have to provide employment and residence addresses consistent with the dates when he was supposedly living and working in the Georgian S.S.R. His wartime military service will have to be covered also. HARVARD feels that this information can be acquired through the facilities of SR/6 when needed.

4. HARVARD is of the opinion that Subject has committed himself to going to South America partly because he will do anything which will prolong his association with KUBARK and partly because he is hoping to realize some personal or financial profit from the exercise. HARVARD has followed the theme that Headquarters deisre is to help Subject and that it can best be done by completely legalizing him. Political recognition is the first step but we desire further that he be helped to immigrate and after 5 years acquire citizenship... Subject has asked HARVARD if he would receive financial help during the transition period in South America. He was told that we could only guarantee his plane fare, that Headquarters would decide how much and what kind of additional help he would receive if any.

5. Subject rejects the idea of staying in Germany except as a last resort. It is possible that because of his irritation with his inactivity Subject may simply request his German documentation and leave HARVARD'S custody.

6. Subject has been in HARVARD's hands since 22 May 1962 and has been costing us 100 to 150 DM per week, plus many hours of case officer time. Request earliest Headquarters advice per para 3 above.

APPROVED:

HYN
HENRY Y. NESMITH

Carl T.Updill

CARL T. UPDILL

Distribution:

2 - C/AF

2 - C/EE

2 - CAWH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

D. NIESCIUR
UNIT: AP/W/2
EXT: 8284
DATE: 19 December 1960

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: LEOPOLDVILLE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: C/AF 3
INFO: COP, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C 2

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
RI file this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
RS Indexing (check one):
Marked

Signature:

TO: LEOP
INFO: RYBAT WIROGUE

RE: LEOP 0478 (IN 18739)*

![Handwritten routing information]

ABSTRACT
19 DEC M
RID/AN
113

FORM 1389 a
2.01-2-33477
(35)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

D. NIESCIUR

AF/W/2

8284

19 December 1960 536

ROUTING

19 DEC 60 20 212

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OUT54652

DES per 43 43

OUT54652

LEOPOLWIE

DIRECTOR

C/AF 3

COP, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C

LEOP

17181

17181

RYBAT WIROGUE

RE: LEOP 0478 (18739)*
PER ACLS 149

1. WIROGUE/1 CONTRACT CALLS FOR:

A. FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS PER MONTH BEGINNING ONE NOV. TO BE PAID IN FIELD. YOUR DISCRETICH TO PAY IN DOLLARS. HE NOT PAID FOR NOV PRIOR TO DISPATCH. OBTAIN: RECEIPTS AND CHARGE PROJECT.

B. THREE THOUSAND DOLLAR QUARTERS ALLOWANCE PER ANNUM, NON ACCOUN-TABLE.

C. FOUR THOUSAND DOLLAR OPS LOAN TO SET UP COVER BUSINESS TO BE REPAID FROM PROFITS. ALSO MUST ACCOUNT FOR ONE THOUSAND TEN DOLLAR TRAVEL ADVANCE RECEIVED.

2. INSTRUCTIONS WERE TO MAKE CONTACT AND FOLLOW GUTEMAN'S INSTRUCTIONS IMPLICITLY. ALSO REPORT ACCURATELY ALL CONTACTS OR POTENTIAL AGENTS AND NOT MAKE ANY APPROACHES OR COMMITMENTS WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL.

3. SHARE GUTHMAN'S CONCERN AND RECOMMEND TELL WIROGUE HE ON PROBATION AND MUST TOE THE MARK OR ELSE RECALL AND TERMINATION. POINT OUT IF NECESSARY HE LIVING UNDER FALSE DOCUMENTS.

ABSTRACT INDEX

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

per POM 43-43

Copy No.

201. 233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

TO:


FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

PAGE TWO CONTINUED

TO:
INFO per CSN 43-43

*DESK COSCENT: Reference RYBAT

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING.
1
4
2
5
3
6

132220 214

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

C0154652 OUT 54652

CITE DIR
17181
17181


![signature of BRONSON TREDY]
BRONSON TREDY
C/AP
RELEASING OFFICER


![signature of AB/W1]
AB/W1
COORDINATING OFFICERS
S-E-C-R R-T

![signature of EDWARD O. WELLB]
Edward O. Wellb
EDWARD O. WELLB
A/CAF/W
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

DATE : 22 DEC 60

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION : C/LF 3

INFO : CCP, C/PG, C/CI, C/F1

FILE. : E8/-2334

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy. ☐
RI file this copy as indicated ☐
Then refile as indicated ☐
RE Indexing (check one: ☐
Marked None required

Signature:

PRIORITY

IN 20986

PRITY DIR CITE LECP 2512

RYSAT VIROCUS

| ROUTING | INITTAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| RID/AN  | H3      |

DESTROY

> [Figure] A stamp labeled "ABSTRACT" and "INDEX" with the date "22 Dec 1960".

FORM 1309a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# 105
DATE : 22 DEC 60

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION: C/AF 3

INFO : COP, C/PG, C/CI, C/FI 2, S/C:2

PRITY DIR CITE LEOP 0512

RYBAT WIROGUE

REF DIR 17181 (out 54652.)*
(IN 18739)

1. PER LEOP 0478 WIROGUE STATES TOLD HE TO REQUEST THREE THOUSAND DOLLARS QUARTERS ALLOWANCE IN LUMP SUM ON ARRIVAL, DOES (PORTION GARBLED, WILL FWD) PAY ALLOWANCE IN LUMP SUM OR MONTHLY. ADVISE. WIROGUE/1 ARGUES HE NEEDS LUMP SUM PAYMENT TO PURCHASE NEEDED HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS, AS WELL AS PAY RENT.

2. ACLS 149 NOT YET RECEIVED.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *CONCERNED WIROGUE/1 CONTRACT.

> [Figure: SECRET stamp]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

701.233477.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

201-2334772

ROUTING

DATE: 11 MAY 61

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT,

ACTION: C/AF 3

INFO: COP, C/CI, C/CE 3, S/Ca

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value: Destroy.
RI file this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked None required

Signature: B. Albright

IN 4329

CITE FRAN 5138

TO: CIR LEOP

INFO:

FRAN:

RYBAT WIROUGE ZIBET

FE (POB 9126 (IN 37367)

| ROUTING | ITTAT |
| ------- | ----- |
| RID/AN  | HB    |
| RID/VIS |       |
| RID/PS  |       |
| RID/FI  |       |
| DESTROY |       |

> [Figure] Stamp of ABSTRACT INDEX
> DATE 1 May 1961

201-233477

FORM 1389 Use Previous Editions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

CLASSIFIED MES ACE

DATE 1 MAY 61

S-E-C-R-E-1

TO DIRECTOR

FROM FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/AF 3

INFO COP, C/CI, C/EE 3, S/C 2


MAY 1 14272 61

ROUTINE

IN 44329

TO DIR LEOP INFO CITE FROB 9191

RYBAT WIROUGE ZIBET

RE FROB 9126 (IN 37367)*

PLEASE REPLY PARA 3 REF.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *WOULD APPRECIATE MORE DETAILS ON REQUEST FOR RECRUITMENT OF SELECT CONGO JOB APPLICANTS.

![photo of stamp]per CSN 43-43

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

-.297
DATE 23 SEP 61
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : LEOPOLDVILLE
ACTION: C/AF 3
INFO : COP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, S/CZ

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
SEP 23 15432 61
ROUTINE
IN 34165

DIR CITE LEOP 2098
per CSH 43-43
RYBAT VIROGUE
REF A DIR 07961 (Out 89123)
B LEOP 2888 (UN 33443)

ROUTING
RID/AN 143
RIMIS
RID/FS
RID/FI
DESTROY

![Abstract Index] 23 SEPT 1961/

201-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

-297

DATE , 23 SEP 61

TO , DIRECTOR

FROM • LEOPOLDVILLE

ACTION: C/AF 3

INFO , COP, C/CI, C/F1.2, C/TSD 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

SEP 23 15432 61

ROUTINE

IN 34165

DESENSITIZED

DIR CITE LEOP 2098

RYBAT WIROGUE

REF A DIR. 07901(Out 89123)*

B. LEOP 2088 (UN 33643)**

1. SALVACK MET WIROGUE (V) WHEN HE CROSSED RIVER ON SPECIAL FERRY.

FROM BRAZ EVENING 22 SEPT. WIROGUE FREINDLY THOUGH CONSIDERS MANY PBPRIME ACTIONS SENSELUSS. W CARRYING KUBARK PROVIDED FALSE DOCUMENTATION AND ON PRODUCING OLD MINISTRY DEFENSE PASS WAS LET INTO CONGO AFTER LONG AUMENT WITH GOC IMMIGRATION OFFICIALS.

2. REGRET HQS DID NOT PICK UP WIROGUE'S FALSE PASSPORT. MAIN REASON FOR HIS RECALL WAS FEAR WILDCAT 5 WOULD TRACE HIM AND DISCOVER NO SUCH PERSON EXISTED. ONLY CHANGE NOW IS THAT KUBARK NO LONGER HAS OBLIGATION TO HIM.

DESENSITIZED

3. W STATES HE TOLD HQS CONTACTS HERETURNING CONGO SO SHOULD BE NO

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
34165 PAGE 2

SURPRISE. HAS SOME LETTERS HE VISHES SALVACK FORWARD TO HIS HQS

CONTACT "DAN". SAID HE WAS GOING TO CALL EITHER GUTHMAN OR SALVACK
IMMEDIATELY TO LET THEM KNOW HE IN LEOP. SWORE HE WOULD NEVER DO
ANYTHING AGAINST PBPRIME AND IF HE COULD BE OF ANY HELP ANY TIME WAS
WILLING. REALIZED FULLY HE ON HIS OWN IN CONGO AND KUBARK UNDER NO
OBLIGATION TO HIM. SAYS HE INTENDS REMAIN CONGO AND MAKE LIVING HERE.

4. W WILL PHONE SALVACK IN FEW DAYS.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT:* STATED WIROGUE BEING TERMINATED AND REQUIRED TO LEAVE PBPRIME.

**RE ZAPPLEEY MEETING WITH WIROGUE BRAZ.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: N. ROBERTS

UNIT: AF/5

EXT: 5457

DATE: 3 AUGUST 1962

TIME: 1653

SECRET

TO: FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, C/WH 43-43, S/C 2

TO: FRAN INFO: LEOP

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS MIROQUE

REF: A. FRAN 1854 (IN 33838)

B. DIR 15840 (OUT 91968)

TE NO. 201-233477

ROUTING

1

2

3 AUG 21 342

SIG CEN

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT62136

CITE DIR 27679

> [Figure: Routing table with hand-written entries and signature]

> [Figure: ABSTRACT - INDEX stamp]
> DATE 3 Aug 1962

201-233477

FORM 1389


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

ORIG: D. HIESCTUR
UNIT: AP/8/2
EXT: 3966
DATE: 15 November 1960

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: COP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

201-233477

|     | ROUTING |
| --- | ------- |
| 1   |         |
| 2   |         |
| 3   |         |
| 4   |         |
| 5   |         |
| 6   |         |

DEFERRED: 16 23 1

ROUTINE: CABLE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

047-93109

CITE DIR: 11912

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
|         | 1:13    |


TO: FROB INFO: FRAN LEOP

ZIBET WIROGUE HYBAT

per CG 48-43

ABSTRACT-INDEX

DATE 16 NOV 1960

CS COPY

![photo of message details]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

ORIG. Jo. Albright
UNIT. AF/5
EXT. 5052
DATE. 13 November 64
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
![check box] INDEX
![check box] NO INDEX 21
![check box] FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-233472
ROUTING R1
2
3
4
19 Nov 64 22 06z
10. BRUSSELS FRANKFURT GERMANY BOIN
![check box] DESTROY
![check box] RETURN TO BRANCH
FROM. DIRECTOR
FILE RID
CORR. AF7 INFO CDC, FI, F1/D4, Cl, Cl/OPS, EE4, WEL6, VR
SIG CEN
Fle
TO 0 ERUS INFO FRAN GENY BONN
P
CITE DIR 65345
CARZONE HARVARD WIROGUE
REF FRAN 0130 (IN 2 22140)
NO POINT DENYING
IF BRUS APPROACHED BY NIGALES, ROGUE (W/)
KUBARK CONNECTION. REVIEN OF W/1 KUBARK CAREER INDICATES COULD DO
LITTLE IF ANY DAMAGE IF HE REVEALED ACTIVITIES. SUBJ TERMINATED 1962
AND KUDARK HAS NO FURTHER INTEREST. FOR BRUS: RELAYING DER 57418.
301-233477
ROUTING INITT
ABSTRACT ![check box] INDEX
RID/AN KAC
END OF MESSAGE
RID/MIS
DATE 19 Nov 64
RID/FI
* Fran defers Dir for guidance should Sub bre true background.
  C/1/10/75/WE WE/2 John Stoin (in draft)
  Thomas F. Theels C/2/5 Joreinzelen
  RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS
  SECRET
  ![image of text: GROUP 1 Included from automatle downgrading and declasiffication]
  AUTHENTICATING
  OFFICER
  FORM 1389a REPRODUCTION BY OTHER EDITION AS PROHIMITI (351)
  1-64


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: D. HIERSCTUR
UNIT: AF/M/1
EXT: 3966
DATE: 16 November 1960

TO: FRAKROURT

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: COP, C/EE 3, D/OS 2, S/C

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
RI File this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked. None required.

DEFERRED Nov 19 23 24 60
ROUTINE REC'D SALE SECT.
PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

TO: FRAH INFO: LEOP CITE DIR: 12432
WIROGUE: FJDUST RYBAT
RE: DIR 08782 (OUT 86554)**

> [Figure] Stamp of 'RI COPY'

> [Figure] Stamp with date: 18 Nov 1960


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: 670
UNIT: D. HIRSCIUR
EXT: AP/W/1
DATE: 3966 16 November 1950

TO: FRANKFURT

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: TOP. C/EE 3. D/OS 2, S/C 2.

TO: FRAN INFO: LEOP

WIROGUE FJUST RYBAT
RE: DIR 08782 (OUT 86554)**

WIROGUE AND KUSODA ESCORT MR. PAUL R. FENNIG DEPARTING ANDREWS AIR FORCE

BASE AT 1500 HRS 21 NOV VIA MATS AIRCRAFT NUMBER 423. ETA FRAN 22 NOV AT 1540

HRS LOCAL TIME. PLS MEET.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMENT: *CONFIRMATION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR FJDUST NOT USED.

**STATED WIROGLE WAS BEING GROOMED FOR DEEP COVER ASSIGNMENT LEOP LATE NOVEMBER.

![signature]
C/KE/OPS
RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

ORIG: D. FIESICUR
UNIT: AP/4/2
EXT: 3966
DATE: 15 November 1960

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: FROB
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF. C/AF 3
INFO: , C/FI 2, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, S/C 2

file RID
B. Albright

PRECEDENCE
DEFERRED
X ROUTINE
PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

201-23347!
ROUTING

Nov 16 23 22'60
REC'D CABLE SECT.

INITIALS
INITIALS
INITIALS

TO: FROB
INFO: FRAN LEOP
REF: DIR
(OUT
CUT93109

CITE DIR
OUT93110
OUT 931
11913
11913

ROUTI'
RID/AN
H3

CS COPY

ASSTRACT INDEX
16/Nov/1960

201-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

CLASSIFIED HESSAGE

# SECRET

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: EEC

INFO: VR, FILE, WE, CI/OPS CNC F1D4, FI, CE, (AF4, TSD6

SECRET 2716582

BRUS INFO DIR GMNY BONN CITE FRAN 3483

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

REF: A. DIR 65345

B. FRAN 3129 (IN 22167)

1. WISH POINT OUT SINCE NEITHER CATIDE NOR CAVATA AWARE SUPJ REFS' TRUE BACKGROUND OR PAST KUSARK CONNECTIONS, REVELATION THIS TO THEM BY NIGALES COULD PROVE EMBARRASSING AND POSSIBLY HARM MKTOPAZ ODISEX CHANNEL FOR OBTAINING POLITICAL RECOGNITIONS FROM FEDREP.

2. IN VIEW ABOVE REQUEST BRUS, IN EVENT APPROACHED, ADVISE FRAN PRIOR ANSWERING NIGALES SO THAT COORDINATED REPLY MAY BE FORMULATED.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

## SECRET

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: CEL

INFO: VR. FILE WES, CI, CHOPS, CO, 51, F1/24, AF4

SECRET 121709Z

INFO BRUS GMNY BONN CITE FRAN 0129

CABEZONE HARVARD WIRO73

43- $84 57448 (NOT SENT BRUS)

B FRAN 0130

1. FRAN ADVISED BY ODIBEX THAT LOCAL POLICE AUTHORITIES RECEIVED ROUTINE INTERPOL QUERY RE WIROGUE (BRUS: SEE KEF B FOR IDEN) WHO ARRESTED 6 NOV AND CURRENTLY IN BRUS JAIL ON CHARGE ATTEMPTED ROBBERY. ROUTINE REPLY SENT BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES CONFIRMING THAT REFERENCED TRAVEL DOCUMENT WAS ASSIGNED TO PERSON BY NAME OF WIROGUE AND THAT THEY HAD NO INFO RE ANY PRIOR POLICE RECORD.

2. WHILE NO FURTHER QUERY ANTICIPATED, ODIBEX IN POSITION, SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE IN FUTURE RE SUBJ'S AIS CONNECTION OR TRUE BACKGROUND, HAVE LOCAL AUTHORITIES DENY ANY KNOWLEDGE OF BACKGROUND OTHER THAN THAT WHICH HE PROVIDED FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION PURPOSES. ONLY ADMITTED AIS CONNECTION WOULD BE ROUTINE CURSORY PROCESSING THROUGH CAMP KING.

SECRET

*NO RECORD IN CABLE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : FRANKFURT

ACTION: AFZ

INFO : EE4 LR FILE

FRAN 0129 IN 22/678
(STATION & NUMBER) (IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS
BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM : EE
(DIVISION)

TO : AF
(DIVISION)

BY : J. BARTLET 2526
(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH: J. ALBRIGHT 5387
(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

> [Figure: A document page with text and handwritten annotations. The document is classified as SECRET.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: VAF 2

INFO: LEEY IR FILE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 17

07912110 SECRET

ROUTING
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

ACTION CHANGE

FRAN OBO IN 201404
(STATION & NUMBER) (IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM: EE
(DIVISION)

TO: AF
(DIVISION)

BY: J. BARTLET 7576
(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH: J. ALBRIGHT 5267
(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

2/10 27 SECRET

FROM FRA FURT

ACTION FEL

INFO VR. FILE C.DC. WE 6, CKCITORS, FI, Fi/04, 11F4

SECRET 1217092

BRUS INFO DIR OMNY BONN CITE FRAN 0130

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

RE FRAN 0129 /#2216/

13 Nov 64 IN 22140.

1. SUBJ REF (IDEN) IS FORMER REDSOX AGENT CANDIDATE
   AND AFRICAN DIV AGENT WHO RESETTLED BY HARVARD JUNE 64.
   PRIOR KUBARK RECRUITMENT HE SERVED PRISON TERM IN FRANCE
   FOR BANK ROBBERY. DURING TWO YEAR RESETTLEMENT PERIOD IN
   FRAN SUBJ GIVE!! NEW NAME AND NEW LIFE STORY. ON BASIS THIS
   NAME AND FABRICATED STORY, SUBJ GRANTED RECOGNITION BY
   FEDREP. IN EARLY OCT SUBJ RECONTACTED HARVARD AND MADE
   BLACKMAIN ATTEMPT IN ORDER GET BACK ON PAYROLL.

2. IT POSSIBLE SUBJ MAY REVEAL TRUE BACKGROUND TO
   BELGIAN AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BRUS BE. APPROACHED THIS MATTER.
   FRAN DEFERS DIR FOR GUIDANCE.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE                                                                        TOTAL COPIES 26

27 SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM FRANKFURT

INFO VR. FILE COC, WEG, CI, CI/OPS, F1, F1/04, 4FF-4EE4

SECRET 1217092

BRUS INFO DIR GMNY BONN CITE FRAN 0130

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE                                                                                   13 Nov 64 IN 22140

RE FRAN 0129 IN 22167

1. SUBJ REF (IDEN) IS FORMER REDSOX AGENT CANDIDATE
   AND AFRICAN DIV. AGENT WHO RESETTLED BY HARVARD JUNE 64.
   PRIOR KUBARK RECRUITMENT HE SERVED PRISON TERM IN FRANCE
   FOR BANK ROBBERY. DURING TWO YEAR RESETTLEMENT PERIOD IN
   FRAN SUBJ GIVEN NEW NAME AND NEW LIFE STORY. ON BASIS THIS
   NAME AND FABRICATED STORY, SUBJ GRANTED RECOGNITION BY
   FEDREP. IN EARLY OCT SUBJ RECONTACTED HARVARD AND MADE
   BLACKMAIN ATTEMPT IN ORDER GET BACK ON PAYROLL.

2. IT POSSIBLE SUBJ. MAY REVEAL TRUE BACKGROUND TO
   BELGIAN AUTHORITIES. SHOULD BRUS BE APPROACHED THIS MATTER.
   FRAN DEFERS DIR FOR GUIDANCE.

SECRET

> [Figure: A Routing table with the following entries]
> ROUTING - INITIAL
> RID/AN - S
> RID/PS
> RID/FI

RI COPY

FORM 1-64 1389 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

INDE
CLASSIFY TO PAT NO

FILE RID
DESTRO

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTION
AF
ADVATE
TIME

INFO
ROUTING
RID/A
VR. FILE WE

SECRET 1217092

INFO ERUS CMNY BONN CITE FRRID2129
CABEZONE HARVARD WIRO73
RID/20
FRAN 0129
43 $84 57448 (NOT SENT BAUD DESTROY
RIO/FI
131loy 64 IN 22167

B FRAN 0139

1.  FRAN ADVISED BY ODIREX THAT LOCAL POLICE AUTHORITIES RECEIVED ROUTINE INTERPOL QUERY RE WIROGUE (BRUS: SEE KEF B FOR (DEN) WHO ARRESTED 6 NOV AND CURRENTLY IN BRUS JAIL ON CHARGE ATTEMPTED ROBBERY. ROUTINE REPLY SENT BY LOCAL.

AUTHORITIES CONFIRMING THAT REFERENCED TRAVEL DOCUMENT WAS ASSIGNED TO PERSON BY NAME OF WIROGUE AND THAT THEY HAD NO INFO RE ANY PRIOR POLICE RECORD.

WHILE NO FURTHER QUERY ANTICIPATED, ODIBEX IN POSITION, SHOULD QUESTIONS ARISE IN FUTURE RE SUBJ'S AIS CONNECTION OR TRUE BACKGROUND, HAVE LOCAL AUTHORITIES DENY ANY KNOWLEDGE OF BACKGROUND OTHER THAN THAT WHICH HE PROVIDED FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION PURPOSES. ONLY ADMITTED AIS CONNECTION WOULD BE ROUTINE CURSORY PROCESSING THROUGH CAMP KING.

SECRET

*NO RECORD IN CABLE

SECRET
SEC 2230 12 11764


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief of Station, Paris

INFO:

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM:
Chief, AF Division

SUBJECT:
Summary of Information on Subject of 201-233477

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

MICROFILM

FYI

References: A. PARI 6754, 6 October 1964

B. Dir 57448, 16 October 1964

1. Iden was born in 1918, in Georgia, USSR. He emigrated to France with his family when he was three years old. He was a clever, precocious child during his lycee education in France and was frequently dismissed by school directors who did not appreciate his temperamental performance. He also attended several engineering colleges but apparently never graduated. In 1939, he volunteered for the French Foreign Legion and was sent to Tunisia. The occupation of France in 1941 ended his military career. He was demobilized and returned to Paris.

2. Subject claimed that he wanted to fight for France, but he did not wish to join a collective resistance organisation. He decided to act on his own so he joined a labor force being recruited in Paris to go to Germany. For awhile he worked in a synthetic gasoline plant in Soclitz near Berlin. Later he was employed as a driver for the NSES. During this time, he began his career in black marketing and document forging. He claimed that he forged passes into and out of Germany and did it to help imprisoned French officers to get back to France. It is felt that the ulterior motives might still have been love of excitement and wish to make money. He also claimed that he did not work for the French Resistance, although it was possible and probably that they gave him orders to fill. He did mention working through intermediaries and cut-outs, so its possible that ho did actually work with the Resistance but did not want to tell us. Eventually Subject was arrested by the German regular police for his activities, and later brought to Berlin where he was interrogated for several months at Cestapo Headquarters. Ha ended up by spending time in jails and concentration camps. He was finally liberated by the U.S. Army.

3. After the thrill and excitement of the war years was passed, Subject could not settle down to a routine existence. So ho joined up with an acquaintance who he says convinced him of the necessity to make more money. They decided to commit robberies. One was successful. Unfortunately for Subject, the other was not. His friend was apprehended and confessed. Subject spent the next five years in various rather notorious prisons in France.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:
OFFW-38334

DATE:
4 NOV 1964-

29 October 1964

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER:
201-233477
201-233477

ROUTING:
![photo of routing instructions]

OFFICE:

ORIGINATING OFFICER:

TYPIST:

EXT:

COORDINATING:

OFFICE SYMBOL:
DATE:
OFFICER'S NAME:

RELEASING:

OFFICE SYMBOL:
/

DATE:

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE:

DISPATCH

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH                                               SECRET                                                OPPW-32334

He was then paroled to his brother and was living near Marseilles. He attempted to go into business using some of the inventions that he had conceived during his confinement in prison. His personality and intense drive and self-confidence quickly gained him a business partner with capital to invest in a cinematographic color reproduction system that was patented and earned decent profits for the two of them. Subject was still on parole and tied to his elder brother's "self-righteous indigence," however. It was shortly after this that Subject was approached by a member of KUBARK who was following up on Subject as an ops lead furnished by a cousin in PSPDE. Subject was favorably assessed and removed black from Franco because of travel restrictions imposed by his parole status.

4.  The rest of Subject's career has been generally summarized in DIR 57443. We are also attaching a copy of SCOA-21573 for information on Subject's most recent activities.

5. Subject has been described as being very ingenious, observant, shrewd, glib, and one who relishes intrigue and daring. The latter play a very important part in his character. He learns quickly and carries out any assignment without regard for danger. His drawbacks, as enumerated by his case officers, are that he is headstrong, impulsive and constantly needs new interests, has an ego that feeds on recognition and triumphs, a low frustration point at unpredictable times, would probably "fall in love" with his CO which would make agent turn over difficult, and that he would be difficult to dispose of if he became disenchanted, i.e. Subject is a handling problem.

Alice H. SHAMASKO

Kenneth N. PECKINGPAUGH

Attachments:
1 cy SOOA-21573, w/d/c #1
Identity - u/s/c #2

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS/Paris w/atts w/d/c, u/s/c


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

FROM

PARIS

ACTION: EE 6

INFO: F., Filo 4, CDC, WE 6, AF4, VR, CICI/OPS, FILE

SECRET 061741Z

DIR INFO FRAN GMNY 50NN CITE PARI 6754

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

REF FRAN 9367 (W 84943)

CRYPTO

STATION HAS NO RECORD EGOA-21573 OR WIROGUE CRYPTOCT 61 IN 88108

PLS ADVISE IDEN AND APPROPRIATE BACKGROUND. NO INDEX.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

ORIG Jo Albricht
UNIT: A/5
EXT : 5032
DATE: 13 October 1964
MESSAGE FORM 34
27 SECRET
TO FRANKFURT PARIS GERMANY BONN
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF. AF 7
INFO EE 4, WE 6, SR 7, C1, C/IPS, FI, FI/04, CDC, VA, FILE
TO CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE
REF FRAN 9367 (IN 84943)*:
ROUTINE PARI GEM BONN
CITE DIR 57448
* WIROGUE * TRYING
  STICK KUBARK FIR MORE MONEY,

1. FOLLOWING COMENTS BASED ON REMARKS MADE BY WIROGUE'S PAST CO'S. CONCENSUS IS THAT SUBJ COULD DO VERY LITTLE DAMAGE, IF ANY AT ALL, IF JOINED OTHER SERVICE.

2. DURING PERIOD WHEN SUBJ UNDER SR DIV CONTROL, CO HAD PERSONAL, DAILY EXTENDED CONTACT WITH HIM. CO BELIEVES SUBJ HAS INNATE DESIRE WORK FOR INTEL SERVICE AS IT CONSONANT WITH PAST LIFE FULL OF DARING, ADVENTUROUS ACTS. IDEA OF "LEGALIZED SFYING" APPEALS TO SUBJ AS IT PUTS HIM IN IMPORTANT, UNIQUE, FROFESSIONAL CATEGORY. CO BELIEVED HS GENUINELY SINCERE IN WANTING TO DO SOMETHING FOR KUBARK AS HE ENJOYED ROLE AS LOWER ECHELON ACTION AGENT. WHILE IT ENTIRELY POSSIBLE SUBI THREATENING WORK FOR OTHER SERVICE AS BARGAINING TACTIC FOR ADDITIONAL KUBARK FUNDS, CO RECALLS THAT MONEY NEVER HAS BEEN FRIMARY END FOR SUBJ AS HE ALWAYS FELT ENOUGH MONEY WOULD COME FROM SOMEPLACE TO SUSTAIN HIM FROK ONE VENTURE TO ANOTHER. DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT SUBJ EXPECTS TO BE ACCEPTED BY FRENCH 13. HE KNOWS VERY WELL HE WOULD BE INCARCERATED FOR VIOLATING PAROLE. HIS PRIDE AND PROBABILITY OF CENSURE AND RIDICULE FROM FAMILY AND FRIENDS IN FRANCE WOULD DISSUADE HIM IN END. FROBABLY DOES NOT WANT MORE MONEY, BUT RATHER NEW DOCUDENTS AND IDENTITY IN SOME THIRD COUNTRY SO THAT HE CAN RETURN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET

CRIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

ROUTING
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: INFO

PAGE 2

TO: INFO CITE DIR 57448

AND WIN ACCLAIM AND RECOGNITION FROM FAMILY AND FRIENDS. HAS ALWAYS HAD GREAT
DESIRE TO "SURPRISE" EVERYONE BACK HOME WITH NEW DOCUMENTS, NEW IDENTITY, PLASTIC
SURGERY, ETC.

3. DURING SR DIV PHASE OF SUBJ CAREER, HE IN WASHINGTON D.C. AREA
   UNDERGOING TRAINING FOR S AESENTINEL PROJECT. KNEW ALL HIS HANDLERS BY ALIASES.

DURING TRAINING CONDUCTED IN SAFTHOUSE IN VIRGINIA, KNEW OPERATING PRINCIPLES
AND HANDLED SCALE MOCK-UP OF ELINT GEAR TO BE USED AESENTINEL. HAD TRAINING
IN BASIC AND ADVANCED FIELDCRAFT, INCLUDING SMALL ARMS, BASIC TRADECRAFT TECHNIQUES
AND ERXT PRACTICES, RUSSIAN LANGUAGE, SOVIET INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES,
H.C. OF KGB BORDER TROOPS, AESENTINEL OPS PLAN, AIR INFILTRATION-EXFILTRATION
TECHNIQUES INCLUDING AIRCRAFT FAVORED FOR THIS. SUBJ ABSORBED SOVIET REALITIES,
BORDER TROOFS H.O. AND BASIC TRADECRAFT QUICKLY AND WITH GREAT APPLIED KX FLEXIBILITY.

4. DURING LEOPOLDVILLE FAN PHASE, SUBJ KNEW VERY LITTLE RE STATION ACTIVITIES.

KNEN COS AND THO CASE OFFICERS TRUE NAMES. AWARE OF COS CONTACT WITH GENERAL
MOSUTU BECASE HE WORKING WITH CONGO AIR FORCE. SPENT MOST TEME THERE TRYING
OTHER
DEVELOP CONTACTS. OPS HE MIGHT HAVE DISCERNED WOULD BE OUTDATED BY NON
DUE TO RAP DLY CHANGING EVENTS IN CONGO.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature]
RELEASE 1 OFFICER

![signatures of coordinating officers]
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

![signature] AF/COP AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.

5
4
3
2
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

9 October 1964.

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Albright, AF/5

SUBJECT: 1. Informal Character Assessment of WIROGUE During the Period July59-Nov 1960
2. Suggested Considerations for WIROGUE Resettlement Phase
3. Damage Report Contribution

1. The following observations and comments are intended to represent an informal personality assessment and factors in consideration of resettlement for AESPIC, now WIROGUE. It is based on a period of training and handling prior to anticipated dispatch--early Julys through late November 1960. These thoughts are based on personal daily extended contact as trainer/agent handler with Subject as a member of prospective cross-border team for implementation of REDSOX Operation. AESENTINEL. One member was re-assessed operationally unsuitable, which left a team of 2 agents, both of which Undersigned continued to handle. It is hoped that this assessment may be of some benefit to the AF Desk Officer, who requested it the day of this writing. It is intended that Subject's démonstrated suitability for AESENTINEL, an infiltration-exfiltration operation into difficult terrain in the Soviet Union, will serve as a mechanism rather than an end in illustrating Subject's general abilities and limitations for the task at hand. An attempt has been made to present this material in subject categories considered operationally meaningful. Quoted passages in Part I are Subjects own or the closest approximation memory permits.

2. It is my considered opinion that the Subject of this writing has the highest personal and professional regard for Undersigned. I do also consider that, although thoughtful handling and self assuredness were prerequisite agent control factors during this case, Subject did not cause an uncomfortable amount of special handling problems. The senior Project Officer was Mr. Perry Crookham, C/DOD/DOB during the training and holding prior-to-dispatch phase of the operation.

3. Subject Background and Chronological Association Factors Deemed Operationally. Significant

A. Subject is an approximately 49 year old eithnic Georgian fluent in Georgian, French, German and English. Subject emigrated to France with the remains of his family during the pre-Lycée stage of his life. His father, a TBILISI University academician and intellectual of some note elected to stay in Soviet Georgia, during which period Soviet dominance in the West Caucasus was fairly well solidified. Subject considers that his fathers decision was made of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

his own free will but which nevertheless disappointed Subject greatly,
as he greatly admired him, despite the fact that Subiect's fathers
decision was responsible for the suicide of his mother, whom Subject
greatly loved. Undersigned believes that Subject's anguish in
memories of his parents was genuine. Subject was a clever though
precocious child during his Lycée education, and frequently was
dismissed by school directors who did not appreciate his temperamental
though erratically brilliant performance. Subject, during this stage
of development, probably tried as hard as ever in his life to conform
to the rules of society, which during that stage of French national
education practices, would probably seem quite strict by American
middle school practices. Subject greatly desired academic/professional
recognition in imitation of his father. These feelings were especially
frustrating because of his quick mind and seeming natural ability for
mechanical and electrical theory and principals. I do not believe he
ever has learned to consider conventions of living anything more than
a tiresome game to be played when there is no alternative. Subject's
quick mind, and early appreciation, recognition and adaptance of
guile did much to ensure the necessary understanding of French culture
for moderate success in that country. Subject who is an unusual
looking man even by French standards, has no trouble in identifying
with the under-privileged elements of French society. Subject is
temporally bald, hooked nose, short, slender, bandy legged, wiry,
and of dark complexion but possessed of a dry, caustic wit eager to
laugh and contribute in the Caucasian spirit of comarderie to those
whom he considers worthy of friendship. Subject, however, makes real
friends cautiously, and has conciously established for himself
personality assessment criteria that would do justice to many success-
ful senior FI or CE C/O agent handlers.

B. World War II offered Subject the welcomed opportunity to
show his ability and ingenuity by engaging in black market affairs in
luxury items and travel documents in German-occupied France. Subject
would wistfully recount stories of his escapades during that period,
which, after really getting to know Subject, seemed to be entirely
mossible. Subiect admired the Germans as "worthy apponents",
particularly their efficiency and ability to act decisively whether the
problem be tactical or strategic. An extended period of German
encarceration (until war's end) did nothing to alter his opinion.
Wars' end left Subject bored and unfulfilled, The excitement and thrill
of "the game" were gone and Subject's unsettled, numb confusion was
for quite another reason than most of Europes milling thousands of
displaced and shattered families. Therefore, it was not long before
Subject and a close friend from his black market days decided on a
daring daylight bank robbery in one of the suburban centers of France.
Subject contends he planned the robbery from start to finish, and
needed only someone to help. Subject and his accomplice carefully.
cased a bank, stole a heavy truck and during the height of the business
day backed the truck full speed in reverse through the large street
level plate glass window. Subject said he hopped out of the truck with


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

3

an automatic weapon, while "the people were frozen solid", gathered
up the money and was away quickly. Subject said the scheme failed
because his accomplice went to the cache-site to get some of the money
to spend before it was safe to do so. His accomplice was apprehended
and in time broke down and implicated Subject. Subject said he was
not bitter at his betrayer, but rather professed a genuine admiration
for French interrogation techniques. Subject served a difficult
confinement of 5 years, and was paroled to an older brother in
Marseilles, as I recall.

C. Subject said that he began at that point to appreciate the
futility of violent actions, while opposing the authority of society.
He therefore attempted to go into business using some of the inventions
that he had conceived during his confinement in prison. His winning
personality and intense drive and self-confidence quickly gained him a
business partner with capital to invest in a cinematographic color
reproduction system that was pattened and earned decent profits for the
venture. Subject was still on parole and tied to his older brother
"self-righteous indulgence", however. It was shortly after this that
Subject was approached by a member of the AIS who was following up on
Subject as an ops lead furnished by a cousin in the US who was a
moderately successful lawyer, and who had been long since recruited as
an agent spotter for eithnic Georgians. Subject was favorably assessed
and removed back from France, because of travel restrictions imposed
under his parole status. I believe that this opportunity rekindled
his old feelings of exhilaration and grateful enthusiasm for the
opportunity to perform his deeds of doing for an authority, sanctioned
by a national state, in this case the AIS.

D. Here at last, he considered, was a secure source of backing
and support for his natural outlets. Subject always considered the
Agency as n d business partner, er, ally, and protector. He was
therefore a grateful, sincere "tool" who thoroughly enjoyed his role
a's lower echelon action agent. Subject New probably frels live
equal partner.

Ε. He was a willing pupil, physically active since the job
called for physical endurance and looked on self-denial and fatigue
recognition as a point of honor. Undersigned was never a poor
athlete, however, was bested on numerous occasions at whatever the
field probèem. Subject absorbed Soviet Realities, Border Troops M.O.
and basic tradecraft quickly and with great applied flexibility.

F. It was during this period that Subject began to confide
regularly and in depth to Undersigned. Subject would often tell
Undersigned, "Fred, you must believe me, I want to do something."
"I will do anything you tell me to do, only tell me." "You (meaning
the Agency) want me to kill somebody. Okay! I do it anyway you say."
I believe Subject was genuinely sincere, and that this was neither an
attempt to impress his C/O or a trust/assurance maneuver.

SELET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

4

G. When an indefinite hold was placed on AESENTINEL by
higher. Agency authority, one team member was re-oriented and placed
on conservation in a cover job. Undersigned ultimately conducted this
agent back to his Scandinavian home where resettlement was achieved
with a minimum of arrangements, however, Subject was transferred to
AF Division for projected operational use in central Africa. This,
if memory serves, was accomplished in late 1960.

4. Personal Qualities and Motivation Factors of Possible
   Operational Exploitability

A. Natural intelligence, resourcefully inventive

B. Mechanical ability, to include photography and gadgetry

C. A certain acumen and shrewdness

D. Concious guile and a "clandestine mind"

E. Physical stamina, and vitality to include extremely good
eyesight

F. Probably capacity to withstand hostile interrogation and/or
physical stress-privation

G. A sincere exponent of "the end justifies the means".

H. Atheism

I. A winning personality when need be

J. Present and potential language ability

K. Lack of racial prejudice

L. Fierce loyalty to his C/O once respect and friendship are
established.

M. Possible self-destruction rather than blow the job in denied
area op.

N. Good independent action agent on short term ops.

O. Anti-Communist

P. Moderate drinker

Q. Keen observer and excellent memory for faces and names

R. Self-confidence to a fantastic degree


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

5. Personal Qualities Considered Operationally Disadvantageous

A. Natually intelligent but headstrong

B. Physiognomy easily remembered

C. A blind spot in intuitive friendships, to possible include trusted female paramour

D. Impulsiveness, and nervous energy that needs constant new interests outlets. An opportunist

E. Lack of moral convictions and basic values many of which are divorced from reality.

F. Ego that feeds on recognition and triumphs. (probable inferiority complex)

G. Poor assessment of the value of money ("easy come, easy go")

H. Possible inclination to alter ops plan to conform to Subjects appreciation of the situation, in field situation.

I. Probably prove to "fall in love" with his C/O, which might make agent turn over difficult. This probably would be moon basis for successful relationship.

J. Probably poor P/A--probably has little objective confidence in subordinates

K. Low frustration point at unpredictable times or occasions.

L. Difficult to dispose of if he ever becomes disenchanted

6. WIROGUE Resettlement Considerations

A. AF/5 representative has requested comment from Undersigned on WIROGUE's apparent reluctance at resettlement attempts in Frankfurt a/M which are underweigh at the present time, I believe. It is undersigned's understanding that Subject has threated to work for the French Service if resettlement negotiations do not proceed to Subject's liking. Speculation has been that this is probably a bargain-ing tactic to gouge an appreciable amount of additional dollars in his resettlement claim. Undersigned considers this a quite valid assumption, and entirely attributable to Subject. Subject probably views this threat as particularly critical in view of the seeming political/economic conflect with the French, and appreciates by now one of the differences between the AIS and the IS of a fascist and/or totalitarian state.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

-6-

B. However, Undersigned would like to suggest the following interpretation for whatever value may be in it. I suggest that money, per sé, is not the primary end that Subject is striving for now, just as it never seemed to be his primary concern throughout his life. I believe that Subiect genuinely enjoys clandestine operations, at least, his conception of clandestine operations. Subject probably would prefer to work for the AIS or possibly the W. German Service because he has a genuine fondness for the people and many aspects of the kulture of both countries. The idea of legalized, or at least internationally tolerated, "Spying" offers the opportunity to legitimize, and thereby rationalize, Subject's conoscon that he is protecting his equity in an important, unique, "professional" category.

C. Subject, during the period of Undersignedsexposure, always considered that if he had money-fine, if not, then enough would come his way from someplace to sustain him from one venture to the next. Subject felt that the acquisition of money would be a by-product of his opportunist, schemes and technical inventions in pursuance of his main goal-personal recognition for personal achievements and triumphs.

D. I believe Subject does not expect to be accepted in his offer of employment with the French. Service, but rather to let our minds jump to the next logical ster the full meaning of the result of such an attempt on his part. Subject knows very well that he has violated his parole and would be encarcerated on his return. I believe his pride and the probability of censure and ridicule of family and friends in France would disuade him in the final analysis.

Ε. Subject is a most excellent chess player. I have never won from him, nor have I ever seen him lose a game. I consider that Subject has thought this line of action out thoroughly. It.is apparent that he is willing to gamble his quit claim settlement on something that I believe he has specifically in mind--possibly the offer of new documents and identity in some third country. He has always had a great desire to "surprise" everyone back home (i.e. Paris): with new documents, a new identity, plastic surgery, etc. I do not believe that what he wants is necessarily more dollars, but rather for the AIS to once again help hem (as co-partner) to achieve his aim of acclaim, success and recognition, possibly this time to family and friends in France.

F. I do not believe that. Subject could ever be physically intimidated. He lest half his front teeth to German interrogators and the other half to French prison guards. Additionally, he does possess a defiant spirit that sometimes comes through as sheer obstinacy to friends.

G. If it is considerd worthwhile, I believe an attempt should be made to lecate a C/O locally who has handled him in the past. A C/O for whom Subject has respect as a higher echelon and whom he considers understands him. I suggest that this C/O interview Subject in an uncontrolled environment to determine what it is that Subject


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

really wants. To bet of my recollection, Subject thought highly
of Monty Love (T), the C/O that helped pitch him and who brought
him out Black from France. Monty was to go to one of the German
Stations or bases the last time I saw him in late 1959.

## 8. Damage Report Contribution

A. The following constitutes Undersigned's contribution to a
damage report that may well be needed in view of Subject's posture in
the matter at hand. It covers only that time sequence during which
Undersigned actively handled Subject.

B. This span constitutes:

early July 59 - late Nov 1960

C. At that time Undersigned was a junior C/O on the
AESENTINEL Project which was to be prepared and launched from the ZI
by SR/DOB, a covert site op's base a formerly in the District of
Columbia.

D. In early July of 59, Undersigned as "Fred" and
George Fill (SR Staffer) as "Mr. George" met Subject and his teammate
"Al" who arrived at Natl. Airport, D.C. with their agent handler and
trainers. The group had returned from several weeks of survival
training in Alaska, and consisted of:

Subject "Little David" (A)

Gregg Ross (T) Mr. Gregg (A)

"Al" (agent team mate) Big Al" (A)

Bill Rohmer (T) Bill (A)

E. We drove immediately to a Safehouse in the Virginia
countryside and conducted training, holding and orientations from
that site until the operation was placed on indefinite conservation
and ultimately cancelled becaŝue of the Powers U-2 incident.

F. Safehouse keepers were an elderly married couple
"Geof and Janie." There were approximately 6 DOB QP vehicles exposed
to Subject.

G. During this holding period another C/O and several agent
handlers were there on regular occasions:

Perry Crookham (T) "Mr. Pat" (A)

Myron Toloczko (T) "Ski" (A)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

Ray Hanchulak (T) "Ray" (A)

Gordon Mothes (T) "Gordon" (A)

Joseph Betza (T) "Joe" (A)

Col. Podwornyy (T) "Pod"

H. Subject knew the operating principles and handled the scale mock-up of the ELINT gear to be used on AESENTINEL. Subject was exposed to training in:

(1) Basic and Advanced Fieldcraft, to include small arms.

(2) Basic tradecraft techniques and practices

(3) Soviet Russian language training

(4) Soviet interrogation techniques

(5) M.O. of KGB Border troops

(6) AESENTINEL Ops. plan

(7) Air infiltration-exfiltration techniques, to include aircraft favored for this.

9. For further information or clarification please call Fred Kirkpatrick, extension 6587.

Fred Kirkpatrick
SR/O/PT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

FROM: PARIS

ACTION: EE-6

INFO: F, File, CDC, WE, C, AF, VR, CI, CI/OF, FAB

SECRET 361741Z

DIR INFO FRAN GANY BONN CITE PARI 6754

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

REF FRAN 9367 (W 84943)

STATION HAS NO RECORD ESCA-21573 OR WIROGUE CRYPTO SIN: 88108

PLS ADVISE IDEN AND APPROPRIATE BACKGROUND. NO INDEX.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FROM FRANKFURT

ACTION EFL

INFO CDC CI, CI/OPS, FI Filoth WC, CI/OA, VR, Fl/GT

SECRET 0114382

PRIORITY DIR INFO PARI GMNY BONN CITE FRAN 9367

CABEZONE HARVARD WIROGUE

RE EGCA 21573

1. WIROGUE CONTACTED HARVARD TO ADVISE HE CURRENTLY WITHOUT JOB, MONEY, FRIENDS AND HOPE FOR FUTURE. SAYS HE HAS TRIED HARD FIND AND RETAIN SUITABLE EMPOLYMENT BUT UNFITTED FOR ANYTHING OTHER THAN INTEL WORK. SINCE PBPRIME UNABLE PROVIDE HIM FURTHER ASSIGNMENT IN THIS FIELD HE PLANS PROCEED PARI AND OFFER SERVICES TO FIS. STATED PURPOSE HIS CONTACT TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE ANY OBJECTIONS HIS SEEKING SUCH EMPLOYMENT.

2. HARVARD CO CONFIRMED THAT THERE NO POSSIBILITY OF RENEWING HIS AIS ASSOCIATION. WIROGUE ALSO TOLD THAT, WHILE WE UNABLE PREVENT HIM FROM TAKING PROPOSED ACTION, DOING SO WOULD BE AT OWN RISK SINCE FRENCH AUTHORITIES WOULD PROBABLY NOT ONLY DISBELIEVE HIS STORY OF PAST AIS CONNECTIONS, BUT WOULD TAKE ACTION AGAINST HIM FOR PAST CRIMINAL ACTIVITY. SUBJ OUTWARDLY APPEARED TO DISCOUNT THESE WARNINGS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

**INSTRUCTIONS**

**PRIOR TO FILING**

1.  Fill in Sect 2. on back Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action takes or comments requiring preservation.

**TO: ACTION BRANCH**

If the file code and title shown are not proper, insert proper file code below and forward document to RID-AN.

FROM: RID/AN

PROPER FILE NO

| TO         | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICERS INITIALS | B   |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | --- |
| 1. AF/5/C  | 7618    | 11/8/64       |                |                   | ✓   |
| 2. Dam     |         |               |                | SL/ts             |     |
| 3.         |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 4.         |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 5.         |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 6. Dam     |         |               |                |                   | ✓   |
| 7.         |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 8.         |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 9.         |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 10.        |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 11.        |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 12.        |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 13.)       |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 14.        |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 15.        |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 16.        |         |               |                |                   |     |
| 17. RID/FI |         |               |                |                   |     |


**TO: ALL ADDRESSEES.**

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

advance copy A1/5/C/LJ.W
ICC EE/C w/ATT
ICC WH/REG W/ATT
ICC SR/C/AF w/AT.
ICC DOP/CDC w/ATI

Cond the file away.

MICROFILMED
JUN 16 1964
DOC. MICRO. SER.

| TRACE REQUEST    | ABSTRACT | FILE TITLE |                                                      |
| ---------------- | -------- | ---------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
|                  |          |            | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) 201-233477                |
| DATE MICROFILMED |          |            | DOCUMENT DATE 4 JUN. 1964 DOCUMENT NUMBER EGOA 21573 |

SECRET

![Form 610a logo] USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, AF

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

INFO: Chief, EE: WH; SR: KUPLUM

FROM: Chief, Coordination & Support Base, Frankfurt

SUBJECT: WIROGUE
Final Resettlement of WIROGUE 690258477

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

1.  WIROGUE, former REDSOX agent candidate and African Division agent has been quitclaimed and resettled on the local economy. This dispatch summarizes the WIROGUE case from May 1962 to March 1964.

2.  Subject arrived in Frankfurt/Main from the Congo on 22 May 1962. KUBARK's reasons for establishing contact were dictated by the need to relieve Subject of his KUBARK-supplied false Austrian passport, the need to institute or suggest a course of action which would encourage him to establish himself as a contributing member of society and, above all, prevent his return to the Congo.

3.  Subject appeared to be primarily a resettlement problem, therefore, Orme K. DARONNAT was assigned the Case Officer responsibility.

4.  Since adequate documentation was a primary consideration for successful resettlement, Subject was briefed on the relative merits of the types of FEDREP, documentation available. Although Headquarters had recommended a backstopped Fremdenpass, subsequent discussions between DARONNAT and MKTOPAZ FRAN representatives indicated a Reiseausweis to be the proper document for permanent resettlement. With the cooperation of ODIBEX Camp King representatives, Subject was interviewed and granted political recognition on the basis of a fabricated story in which he claimed to be a Georgian who defected from East Berlin while with a tourist group.

5.  The WIROGUE case suffered a temporary setback when in December 1962 the BUNDESVERFASSUNGSSCHUTZ (BFV), the West German organization responsible for the internal security of the FEDREP became interested in Subject and requested all available information. HARVARD briefed OCA Bonn that Subject was strictly a HARVARD agent resettlement case whose name, recognition interview story, etc were complete fabrications to insure his receiving political recognition and a Reiseausweis. OCA advised the BFV that Subject was of continuing AIS interest and HARVARD resumed its resettlement efforts.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 4 June 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: EGOA-21573

CROSS REFERENCE TO: D 32W-120-12/1

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 32W-120-012/01

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH                                       S-E-C-R-E-T                                   EGOA-21573

6.  By summer 1963 detailed South American immigration data had been acquired. This disclosed that Subject's language deficiencies, background, knowledge of the Soviet Union, and work history were insufficient to guarantee his smooth processing through the INTERGOVERNMENTAL COMMITTEE FOR EUROPEAN MIGRATION (ICEM). Our investigation also pointed up the fact that until Subject was provided with a detailed life history containing the information required by prospective employers and/or immigration authorities, he was not in a position to be resettled anywhere, let alone South America. As a result, HARVARD's plans to process Subject for immigration had to be cancelled, at least temporarily.

7.  A CABEZONE Stage I C.O. was given the task of preparing a life story containing the factual information needed for the filling out of job applications, to stand up under detailed interviews and, if South American immigration ever took place, to satisfy immigration requirements. This legend was given to ODIBEX Camp King representa- tives who prepared a new political recognition interview story, arranged for the removal of copies of the old story from the various FEDREP files and replaced them with the new.

8.  For the first time since Subject had arrived in HARVARD'S custody the way was clear for a final resettlement. Subject's Reiseausweis was renewed and he was quitclaimed and advised to work and establish himself in Germany. He was told that nothing more could be done for him and that immigration to South America at anytime in the future would be without KUBARK assistance.

9.  HARVARD has done everything to insure Subject a successful future free from problems resulting from his "black" association with KUBARK. Therefore, there is good reason to believe that KUBARK will not have to become involved with any of Subject's future problems. It is also unlikely he will attempt to coerce KUBARK with threats to reveal all. With his criminal background he is aware that he can be brought to the attention of the French authorities. He also believes that KUBARK's position in the FEDREP is such that we have nothing to fear from any action on his part..

10. At the time of this writing Subject has a position as research and development engineer with a Munich firm. He allegedly receives DM 1500 per month, has an expense account and is to receive a percentage of all profits realized from the sale of any devices he develops. He expects to move to Munich permanently about the end of May or June 1964.

11. HARVARD has arranged with CSB Data Processing Branch to publish a noforn drop notice under Subject's documented name so that any attempt to immigrate to any country will bring him to the attention of KUBARK and appropriate action can be taken.

12. It is suggested that Headquarters arrange to apprise HARVARD of any inquiries regarding Subject under his documented name or any of the names listed in Attachment C.

ORME K. DARONNAT

APPROVED:

FREDERICK K. UMNODE

Attachments:
A. Recognition Interview Story (USC)
B. Termination Agreement                                (USC)
C. Iden List                                                   (USC)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - AF, w/atts (USC)
1 - EE, w/o atts
1 - WH, w/o atts
1 - SR, w/o atts
1 - KUPLUM, w/o-atts

S-E-C-R-E-T                                                                                                    2 of 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

a.Zt. Oberursel/Ta., den 23.0.1962

In Begleitung eines Dolmetschers erscheint der angebliche ausländische Flüchtling.

Georg Frank Sanders,
geb. am 25. Juli, 1919 in Tiflis/Georgien/UdSSR.,
wohnhaft in Oberursel/Ts., Hohenmarkstr. 145,
Beruf: Elektroingenieur,
Staatsangeh.: ungeklärt, fr. UdSSR,
Eltern: Simon S. und Maria geb. Kantscheli, beide verstorben,

und erklärt wie folgt:

*   "Ich weiß, weshalb ich heute hier befragt werden soll. Mein Dolmetscher hat mir auch gesagt, daß ich die Wahrheit angeben soll, da sonst die Gefahr besteht, daß meine Anerkennung als ausländischer Flüchtling gefährdet ist.

Ich wurde als ältestes Kind meiner Eltern geboren. Ich hatte noch einen Bruder, der aber kurz nach der Geburt verstorben ist.

Mein Vater war von Beruf Ingenieur, ist aber bereits im Jahre 1924 verstorben. Ich selbst kann sich an meinen Vater nicht mehr erinnern. Meine Mutter ist im Jahre 1934 an eines Herz-schlag verstorben. Sie war zuletzt Kassiererin in einem Schuhreparatur-Geschäft in Tiflis.

Meine Schulzeit begann im Jahre 1927, wo ich an meinen Geburtsort bis 1934 die dortige Deutsche Schule besuchte. Es war eine Schule, in der nach deutschen Gesichtspunkten unterrichtet wurde. Wir bedienten uns zu damaliger Zeit der deutschen Sprache und hatten nur wenige Stunden, wo wir in der georgischen Sprache unterrichtet wurden.

Im Jahre 1934 kam ich, nachdem ich durch eine Prüfung die Befähigung nachweisen mußte, zum Elektro-Technikum in Tiflis, dem auch ein Internat angeschlossen war. Die finanziellen Mittel für diese Schule brauchte ich nicht aufbringen, sondern hatte ein Stipendium.

An dieser Lehranstalt studierte ich vier Jahre Physik, Mathematik, Geschichte, Englisch und Literatur.

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

Neben der eigentlichen Fachausbildung erhielten wir auch eine vormilitärische Ausbildung, in der Körperschule mit eingeschlossen war. Während der Sommerferien waren die Studenten meist auf einer Kolchose beschäftigt, um so an der Bergung der Ernte mitzuhelfen.

Im Fruhjahr 1938 hatte ich meine Abschlußprüfung. Ich bestand diese und erhielt mein Diplom.

Schon von der Lehranstalt wurden uns Arbeitsplätze zugewiesen. Wir mußten uns zu diesem Zweck auf zwei Jahre verpflichten. Ich würde sagen, daß damit eine gewisse Rückzahlung der uns gewährten Gelder zum Zwecke des Studiums geleistet werden sollte. Ich selbst kam zur Maschinen-Traktoren-Station, die später in Reparatur-technische-Station umbenannt wurde. Mein Arbeitsplatz befand sich in Zschakaja.

Am 28. August 1941 wurde ich zur russischen Armee eingezogen. Ich kam nach Baku. Es handelte sich um eine Flakeinheit, die in der Daljanskiji Kaserne untergebracht war. Nach meiner zweimonatigen Grundausbildung wurde ich als Kraftfahrer ausgebildet.

Zum Schluß meiner Dienstzeit war ich Fahrer des Divisionskommandeurs, Oberstleutnant GURGENIDSE.

Im Jahre 1944 wurde ich zum Feldwebel befördert. Mit diesem Dienstgrad habe ich auch 1946 die Armee verlassen. Es war im September. Ich kehrte wieder an meinen früheren Arbeitsplatz zurück, den ich bis zu meiner Flucht innehatte.

Nun zu meinen Fluchtgründen:

Trotsdem ich in einem kommunistischen Land geboren und erzogen worden war, begann ich doch schon frühzeitig zu verstehen, daß für die Einzelperson keine persönliche Freiheit bestand. Es war mir auch klar, daß persönlicher Aufstieg nicht von dem Talent und der Rechtschaffenheit eines Menschen abhing, sondern von dem Ausmaß der politischen Betätigung. Ich erkannte die kommunistischen Lügen, da die Wirklichkeit so verschieden von der offiziellen Propaganda war. Während und nach dem Kriege traf ich Menschen, die westliche Länder besucht hatten und ich war in der Lage, Bruchstücke der Wahrheit über den Unterschied in den Lebensarten aus diesen Erzählungen abzuleiten, obwohl alle diese Berichte sehr vorsichtig vorgebracht wurden.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

- 3 -

Ich hörte schließlich auch noch westliche Sonder, um mich zu orientieren. Keine feindliche Einstellung zum Kommunismus wurde immer stärker und es wurde fur mich immer schwieriger, mich mit meinen Redensarten zu kontrollieren und diesen Gefuhlen nicht offen Ausdruck su verleihen.

In Juni 1962 kan schließlich der Sicherheitsdienst zu ir an meinen Arbeitsplats. In der anschließenden Vernehmung wurde ich beschuldigt, ein langjähriges Hitglied einer georgischen Riderstandegruppe zu sein und regierungofeind- liche Außerungen getan su haben. Obwohl ich solche Außerungen bei verschiedenen Velegenheiten gemacht hatte und deshalb schuldig in Sinno dea letzteren Trile der Anschuldigungen war, konnte ich fuhlen, daß der Sicherheitsdienst nicht genügond Informationen besaß. Ich verneinte deshalb alle Anschuldigungen.

Kach langem Verhör wurde ich in meine Wohung entlassen und erhielt die Auflage, meinen


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

#

Ich versteckte mich wieder und wartete die sun Abend. Ich ging schließlich wieder ino Unoot und sohwnam nun der Klinto entlang. Ich aithte mich wieder die ganze Nacht ab, ohne daß ich genau wußte, wo ich mich befand. In Morgengrauen ging ich wieder an Land. Ich hielt mich aunlichot in einer Höhle versteckt. In Lufe der nachfolgenden Stunden Ars traf ich einon Knaben von etwa 11 oder 12 Jahren. Von tha erfuhr ich, daß ich mich auf turkischen Gobict, in der Nähe von Kemal-Pascha befand. Da ich immer noch nicht Sicherheit hatte, versteckte ich mich weiterhin zwei Tage. Der Not chorohend, näherte ich mich schließlich der Ortschaft Kenal-Pancha. Hit meinen russischen Sprachkenntnissen konnte ich mich den herbeigekomenen Personen nicht verständlich machen. Man dadrohte mich mit Stöcken und Axten, bie ich sie schließlich Uberzeugen konnte, daß ich aus dem russ. Gebiet käme und um Hilfe bitte. Männer der Ortschaft übergaben sich schließlich don militärisohen Behörden in Keral-Parcha.

Dei meiner Flucht war ich lediglich mit einer Badehos begleitet. An den Fußon hatte ich Schwimaflossen. Weiter trug loh oin Klappmeaner bei mir, ait dom ich mich in Netfalle vorteidigon wollte..

Durch turkische Behörden kan ich nach Ersorua und von dort nach Istanbul, in das Fluchtlingslager. Am 6.7.62 Ubernahmen mich U-Behörden, die mich noch am gleichen Ige nach Deutschland brachten..

Das ist die Wahrheit. Ich bitte, mich als ausl. Fluchtling anzuorkennen, weil ich aus politischen Gründen und aus Anget vor Verfolgung meine Heimat vorinsson habe. Ich bin bisher noch nicht bestraft.

Wegen moiner Zukunftoabsichten befragt, erklhre ich, daß ich auszuwandern gedenke. Be ist aber auch nicht ausge schlossen, daß ich mich in Europa niederlasse. Doe 10t alles, was ich von mir aus und auf Befragon angen kann.

Die in russischer Sprache gefuhrto Verhandlung habe ich veretanion und bestätige die Richtigkeit durch meine Unterschrift,

Geschlossent

![signature of Rogner KOM]

G. Sanders

v. g. u.

![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# TERMINATION AGREEMENT

The undersigned hereby acknowledges that a contractual relationship has heretofore existed between him and the Government of the United States of America (hereinafter referred to as "the Government"). The Government has fully and completely satisfied all of its obligations to the undersigned.

The undersigned on behalf of himself, his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns hereby releases and forever discharges the Government, its officers, agents and employees from any and all debts, claims, benefits or demands arising out of the above mentioned contractual relationship.

The undersigned fully understands and appreciates the fact that the prior relationship between the parties and all infomation and knowledge acquired in the course of said relationship (particularly with reference to persons and methods employed by the Government, are the property of said Government and constitute military secrets affecting its security. The undersigned knows and understands that these are protected by German Law under the provisions of Annex A to the Convention on Fights and Obligations of Foreign Forces in the Federal Republic of Germany.

The Government is highly appreciative of the excellent services heretofore rendered by the undersigned. However, to preserve the security above mentioned, it is further unierstood and agreei that both parties shall hereafter disavow that the relationship ever existed.

The undersigned further agrees he possesses no right, title or interest in any information or knowledge arising out of said relationship and he further solemnly swears that he will never divulge, publish or reveal by word, conduct or any other means the fact of said relationship nor any such knowledge or information arising therefrom except as authorised in writing by the sens official of the Governssant as that who witnesses this path.

Frankfurt/Main, this 3rd day of March 1964

![signature of Georg F. Sanders]

(L.S.)

WITNESS:

![signature of William Wermuth]

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT B TO
DISPATCH NO. EGOA-21573
DATED 4 JUNE 1964


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT C TO
DISPATCH NO. EGOA-21573
DATED 4 JUNE 1964

IDEN LIST

DAVID de PANASKHET.

GEORG REINER

DAVID TZITZICHVILI

![MICROFILMED JUN 16 1934 DOC. MICRO. SER.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

EXCERPT FROM EGCA 21181 - HARVARD RESETTLEMENT SUMMARY FOR JANUARY 1964:

WIROGUE

Subject's new legend has been translated into German and given to the ODIBEX Camp King representatives who will use it as the basis for a new political recognition interview story. As soon as the new story is completed copies will be placed in the various files to replace copies of the old story. At this point, Subject's documentation will be completely in order and actual resettlement should be accomplished in a few days.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# SECRET

# HARVARD

# SUMMARY OF RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITY

1 - 30 September 1963

## DEFECTOR CASES:

| Case Name                                    | Action Taken                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| -------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A. On Hand at Beginning of Reporting Period: |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DS-109                                       | Subject moved out of HARVARD housing during the month after having located appropriate employment with CAMANTILLA'S assistance. The results of Subject's T.B. tests were obtained on 24 September and are negative. He will continue in his current job and concentrate on further English study until December when he will again be considered for immigration to the U.S. under P.L. 86-648.                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DS-129                                       | Through the assistance of MKTOPAZ and ODIBEX, Subject received his Fremdenpass and was interviewed for FEDREP political recognition. Shortly after being turned over to CAMANTILLA, who is assisting him in his efforts to obtain local employment, the need for additional interrogation arose. While his job hunt was, therefore, slightly delayed, it should recommence shortly. Due to the sensitive nature of Subject's documentation problem (having been previously granted refugee recognition by another country), HARVARD will continue to maintain contact with him until the Reiseausweis is issued. |
| IDEN-271*                                    | Subject immigrated to the U.S. 19 September 1963 without HARVARD assistance or CAMANTILLA sponsorhip.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| B. Received During Reporting Period:         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DS-130                                       | Profession: Electro-technician; designer of high voltage power circuits Rec'd by HARVARD: 20 September 1963 From: CABEZONE Nationality: Czechoslovakian Age: 27 No of Dependents: 0 Resettlement Officer: Orme K. DARONNAT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

Group 1
Excluded from automatic
Downgrading and declassification

SECRET

101-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

-2-

Case Name Action Taken

DS-130 (Cont) HARVARD Resettlement Aims: Subject's processing for immigration to the U.S. under Public Law 414 has already been completed. He is scheduled to depart 28 October 1963 via an ICEM flight for New York where CAMANTILLA will meet and assist. Until this departure date he will occupy HARVARD housing and continue his study of English.

DS-133 Profession: Mechanical Engineer
Rec'd by HARVARD: 30 September 1963
From: CABEZONE
Nationality: Polish
Age: 30
No. of Dependents: 0
Resettlement Officer: Arthur A. LIFALL
HARVARD Resettlement Aims: Immigration to Canada (see EGOA 20576, dated 24 September 1963).

C. Former Defector Resettlement Cases (or Cases Still in Stage II)
Requiring HARVARD Action During the Reporting Period:

DS-924 Camp King informed HARVARD that Subject had applied for a Reiseausweis renewal in order to visit the FEDREP. Headquarters' answer to HARVARD's query re adviseability of issuing renewal will be passed to the appropriate authorities, thru Camp King, when received.

DS-125 While immigration to the U.S. under P.L. 86-648 was initiated for Subject and his family (see EGOA-20570, 18 September 63), HARVARD now feels his best chances for U.S. entry, in view of his long C.P. membership, is under P. L. 414 first preference (see FRAN 2170). Preliminary discussions have been held with AMCONGEN and an advisory opinion will be obtained.

DS-127 Application for U.S. immigration under P. L. 86-648 has been formally turned down by the local I&NS office. CABEZONE is currently awaiting Headquarters reaction to EGOA-20573, 19 September which recommends P. L. 110 handling.

* Resettled during the reporting period. Subject will not appear on next month's or subsequent HARVARD reports unless and until some new unforeseen aspect of the case arises requiring additional HARVARD action. In this event the case will be listed and the new action described under Category IC.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

-3-

II. AGENT CASES:

| Case Name | Action Taken |
| --------- | ------------ |
A. On Hand at Beginning of Reporting Period:

CAHAVOC - 1 | Subject continues to be of interest to FOB and will occupy HARVARD housing until he is successful in his attempts to find an apartment on the economy.

WIROGUE | Background material for Subject's new legend has been acquired with the assistance of Stage I. HARVARD hopes to begin the final stages of Subject's resettlement in the near future.

IDEN-264* | Subject immigrated to the U.S. 5 September 1963 on PAA FLT #73.

IDEN-272 | The initial stages of FEDREP political recognition have been completed. Subject's position has been legalized to the extent that he is now looking for employment on the economy.

IDEN-274 | With the assistance of CAMANTILLA Subject commenced his photographic training in Hamburg on 10 September. Upon completion of his schooling (in early 1964) he will be given the monetary grant awarded by Headquarters as compensation for his eight-year imprisonment.

B. Received During Reporting Period:

NONE

C. Former Agent Resettlement Cases Requiring HARVARD Action During Reporting Period:

AEBLANKET-2 | HARVARD C. O. ORME K. DAPONNAT and former HARVARD C. O. DAVID R. REINBOLD visited Subject at her request. She asked for help for a girlfriend who had become involved in possible foreign intelligence activities in the local area. Arrangements were made for REINBOLD to introduce an FOB/CE C.O. to Subject.

AEPOLE-25 | Additional correspondence has been exchanged with Subject in connection with his attempting to establish with FEDREP authorities that he contributes to the support of his children living in the USSR.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

-4-

DIHESITANT

At the request of FOB/SAT, HARVARD has been in contact with AMCONGEN FRAN to establish most expeditious way for Subject to be processed for immigration to the U.S. Immigration is complicated by the fact that Subject and wife are residing in another country and for security reasons must not be processed at the U.S. Consulate located in that country.

TULANCE-1

HARVARD continues to maintain contact with Subject through our local post box and is cabling Headquarters and other appropriate KUBARK elements the gist of each letter received.

IDEN-238,241,
242

HARVARD maintains periodic contact with this family and continues to pay the widow of IDEN 238 a monthly subsistence payment of DM 150.

IDEN-239 & 240

HAPVARD arranged for a meeting between the local representative of CAMANTILLA and an FOB/SAT C. O. to discuss the possibility for continued financial assistance to Subjects through U.S.E.P.

IDEN 263

The New York office of CAMANTILLA has brought to HARVARD's attention the recurring difficulties which it has had with Subject. This problem was discussed with FOB/SAT and a summary of the situation forwarded to Headquarters in FROB 5827.

* Resettled during the reporting period. Subject will not appear on next month's or subsequent HARVARD reports unless and until some new unforeseen aspect of the case arises requiring additional HARVARD action. In this event the case will be listed and the new action described under Category IIC.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

EXCERPT FROM EGOA 20791 (PARVARD Resettlement Summary)

October 63

WIROGUE

Subject's new legend has been prepared and will be used to provide the details for a new FEDREP political recognition interview. The next step will be to arrange to have the new interview story substituted for the old thus paving the way for Subject's permanent resettlement.

201-133477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, EB
Chief of Base, Bonn

FROM
Chief, Coordination & Support Base/Frankfurt

SUBJECT
CADETONE/HARVARD
Backstopping of Resettlement & Disposal Cases

DATE
9 September 1963

ACTION INFO
FYI

REFERENCES:
A. FRAN 6399
B. BONN 4139
C. EGOS 11325
D. EGOT 18868

1. References represent an initial misunderstanding of the problem of WIROGUE which is now being clarified.

2. The problem of backstopping of resettlement and disposal cases has been carefully reviewed by elements of CSB concerned including CABETONE, MKTOPAZ and CATHINK. In this connection there is attached a copy of a memorandum dated 27 August 1963 from Chief/MKTOPAZ which outlines the current situation. As will be noted MKTOPAZ has and will expand its capability for procurement of operational documents independent of the 513th ICG. It is believed that the present procedures for backstopping of resettlement and disposal cases should be continued. In theory an independent capability is desirable but not really practical at this time. Creation of an independent capability for backstopping resettlement cases would require duplication of the procedures and practices now followed by Mr. Willms of the 513th ICG. In addition, we would not have the advantage of hiding our cases from the Germans among other Army disposal cases. Furthermore, USAREUR has requested notification prior to contact with any German officials of any sensitive cases which we may desire to handle without military assistance--see USAREUR letters dated 7 August 1961 and 25 March 1962, attached. With considerable effort it would be possible to backstop some of our resettlement and disposal cases directly with German officials. It would be quiet difficult, however, to prevent the Army from learning of such action which is contrary to the USAREUR request.

3. It is possible that the FEDREP will enact new legislation on the control of non-German refugees. Likewise, new FEDREP emergency laws may affect this type of case. We will keep this situation under review and in the event the circumstances change will initiate appropriate action.

Attachments: (H/W)

1. Memo dtd 27 Aug '63
2. USAREUR Ltr dtd 7 Aug '61
3. USAREUR Ltr dtd 23 Mar '62

Distribution:

2 - C/EE w/atts
1 - COE/Bonn w/o atts

NORRIS D. WALLACH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

Follow #l to Richmond

Turn RIGHT off #1 on #lól approximately
2 miles *before* you reach Richmond City limits.

Follow #161 over 5¢ toll bridge to #360.

Turn right on #360 to $153.

Turn left on #153 to #460.

Turn RICHT on #1460 to Blackstone.

Turn LEFT on road to main gate Camp Pickett

At Main Gate call Bldg. No. 2813.
Operator will place call. Escort will meet
you at main gate.

Bldg. 2813 Ext. 4120

cash for:
SKI
RAY
ROY

![signature of David Diamant]

201-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

Leophlville October 3.

Dear Dan

As you can see I am back to Leo and in the same time to my job in the Air Force. I have crossed the river from Brazzaville to Leo without any trouble though that was and still is closed to anyone without a diplomatic passport.

So far so well but I have to ask you to send me back, soon as possible my two laisser Passer. I have shown you when I was at Albion Towers Hotel. Those laisser-passer are very important for my own security and my travelling and it will be almost impossible to find two other wour Identification cards like that. The situation is a little tense and troubled.

The white peoples are nervous because the feeling of insecurity between Gijunga's growing influence and the today's Government failure to find the right solution for the present complet derenga-nisation of this country and his man for the Soume of the Sonich, when I can back to my office everybody was happy to see us again and the secretary of the House wonder what will happen to you. 1) Reiner, we are glad to have you here now. live meet you wery much (?!!). I hope your health is good now....

Meanwhile I have seen Norman and I have let him know what I was doing now. I suppose he will make his report to you.

If you want take contact with me you can always write to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

Monsieur Georg Rainer

BP. 2949

Leopoldville/Congo

This is my mail-box. I'll be glad to do anything in my possibility.

Give my best regard to Pat and please give him my address also to Max wich I have seen in Frankfurt/Main just two days before my departure at the Airport.

I hope you are in good health.

George

> [Figure: Scan of the lower portion of the document displaying the envelope and address details.]
> ATTACHMENT #1
> AIR MAIL PAR AVION
> 201-231477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INDEX-CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
NO INDEX-CLASSIFY TO FILE
CROSS REFERENCE TO FILE NO
FILE NO DESTROY RET TO BRANCH
SIGNATURE
ACTION:

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, CDC, AF4, SR 6, S/C 2

SECRET 191519Z

FRAN INFO DIR FROS CITE BONN 4357

HARVARD LOIMPROVE WIROGUE

REF FOAM 7497, (NOT TO FROB) (IN 88759) &
19 MAR 1963 IN39733

SUGGEST YOST DISCREET WAY OBTAIN INEO REQUIRED IS QUERY

TO CARAVEL.

SECRET

C/S COMENT: STATED FOR RESETTLEMENT PURPOSES IT IMPORTANT HARVARD KNOW WHETHER
WIROGUE LISTED INTERPOL.

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| RID/AN  | M       |
| RID/MIS | H       |
| RIA/PS  |         |
| AD/FI   |         |
| AF/7    |         |
| DESTROY |         |

701-233477

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING & DECLASSIFICATION

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# SECRET

DEX-CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 2033477
40 INDEX-CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
CROSS REFERENCE TO FILE NO.
FILE RIO DESTROY RETTO BRANCH ✗
SIGNATURE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

201-233477

ACTION: SE AF/4

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, CDC, AF 4, SR 6, S/C 2 EL4

R SECRET 181611Z

BONN INFO DIR CITE FRAN 7407

HARVARD LCIMPROVE VIROGUE 18 MAR 1963 !IN88799

REF FRAN 6489 (CN 62960) 8

1. FOR RESETTLEMENT PURPOSES IT IMPORTANT HARVARD KNOW
   WHETHER WIROGUE LISTED INTERPOL. CAN BONN DISCREETLY MAKE THIS
   DETERMINATION?

2. NO FRAN TRACES UNDER NAMES DAVID TZITZICHVILI OR DAVID
   DE PANASKHET DPOB 20 DEC 1919 TIFLIS, USSR.

R SECRET

C/S COMMENT: SUGGESTED CAVATA BE ADVISED WIRAGE WILL PROBABLY BE RESETTLED
OUTSIDE GERMANY.

| ROUTING | IFTTTT |
| ------- | ------ |
| RID/AN  | M      |
| RID/MIS | A      |
| RUBAPS  |        |
| MOVES   |        |
| AF/7    |        |
| IDSEROY |        |

201-233477
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

6 FEB 63

DIRECTOR

FRANKFURT

EE 6

CI, CI/OPS, FI, CDC, TSD 5 AF, SR 6, S/C 2

ROUTING

FEB 6 15112 03

ROUTINE

John

BONN INFO DIR BRLN CITE FRAN 6489

HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS VIROGUE
REF BONN 4139
(60901)
ING2960

1. ORDER KEEP CAVATA OUT OF WIROGUE CASE THEY MAY BE
   INFORMED WIROGUE IS OF CONTINUING OPS INTEREST TO AIS. HOWEVER
   AS HARVARD EXPLAINED DURING OCA VISIT BONN 5 FEB WIROGUE WAS AND
   IS STRICTLY RESETTLEMENT CASE OF NO AIS OPS INTEREST.

2. SUGGEST CAVATA ALSO BE ADVISED WIROGUE WILL PROBABLY BE
   RESETTLED OUTSIDE GERMANY.

Internal Security Service

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: * REQUESTED INFORM CAVATA THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE : 2 FEB 63

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : BONN

ACTION: EE 6

INFO : CI, CI/OPS, FI, CDC, TSD 5, AF 4, SR 6, S/C 2

PRITY FRAN INFO DIR BRLN CITE BONN 4139

HARVARD LCINPROVE CAVATA TECHS GIROGUE

REF FRAN 6399 (w 60224)

INE0901

1. SINCE THIS IS APPARENTLY A KUSARK CASE AND ORIGINAL QUERY
   CAME FROM CAVATA TO KUBARK ELEMENT OCA, FAIL UNDERSTAND NEED
   FOR TRANSMITTING REPLY TO CAVATA VIA 513TH REP. ALSO DO NOT
   FEEL IT NECESSARY CONTACT CAVATA CHIEF IN RESPONSE ROUTINE
   WORKING LEVEL CAVATA QUERY. THIS MAY BE ATTEMPT ON WILLMS
   PART TO FIND EXCUSE VISIT CAVATA CHIEF.

2. IF THIS ROUTINE CABEZONE CASE FEEL STAGE I DEBRIEFING
   AND ASSESSMENT WHICH NORMALLY PASSED CAVATA WILL SATISFY LATTER'S
   NEEDS. ON OTHER HAND IF KUBARK HAS CONTINUING OPERATIONAL
   INTEREST AS PARAGRAPH 2 IMPLIES WE CAN INFORM CAVATA ACCORDINGLY
   THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS.

3. PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *FRAN ASKED BONN ADVISE IF DESIRES WILLMS CHECK IN WITH BONN
PRIOR VISIT CAVATA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE : 1 FEB 63

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: EE 6

INFO: CI, CI/CPS, FI, CDC, TSD 5 AF, S/C 2

---

ROUTINE

FCS 1 14202 63

---

ROUTINE

*Soft filo*

INS0224

---

PRITY BONN INFO DIR BRLN CITE FRAN 6399

HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS VIROGUE

REF EGNA 25083

1.  SUBJ REF IS HARVARD AGENT DISPOSAL CASE VIROGUE REGISTERED
    CAMP KING WHERE HE PROCESSED 28 AUG 62 FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION
    IN ORDER LEGALIZE HIM FOR RESETTLEMENT.

2.  CASE DISCUSSED WITH MR. JOHN WILLMS WHO WILL VISIT BONN
    5 FEB AND WILL TAKE MATTER UP DIRECTLY WITH CHIEF, CAVATA TELLING
    HIM THIS AIS CASE AND ASK HIM NOT PURSUE.

3.  PLS ADVISE PRIORITY IF YOU DESIRE WILLMS CHECK IN WITH YOU
    PRIOR HIS VISIT CAVATA.

END OF MESSAGE

---

SECRET

201. 233477

EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-
MATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy file.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE: 1 FEB 63

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: EE 6

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, CDC, TSD

RE Filing (chica onei:
No CS Record Value. Destroy.

N' file this copy as indicated

Detach copy filed as indicated

S/C/2
Signature:

FILE NO. 201-233477

| ROUTING |     |
| ------- | --- |
| 1       | 4   |
| 2       | 5   |
| 3       | 6   |

FEB 1 1420Z 63

ROUTINE

PRITY BONN INFO DIR BRLN CITE FRAN 6399

HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS VIROGUE

REF EGNA 25083

IN60224

1. SUBJ REF IS HARVARD AGENT DISPOSAL CASE VIROGUE REGISTERED CAMP KING WHERE HE PROCESSED 28 AUG 62 FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION IN ORDER LEGALIZE HIM FOR RESETTLEMENT.

2. CASE DISCUSSED WITH MR. JOHN WILLMS WHO WILL VISIT BONN 5 FEB AND WILL TAKE MATTER UP DIRECTLY WITH CHIEF, CAVATA TELLING HIM THIS AIS CASE AND ASK HIM NOT PURSUE.

3. PLS ADVISE PRIORITY IF YOU DESIRE WILLMS CHECK IN WITH YOU PRIOR HIS VISIT CAVATA.

END OF MESSAGE

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| W       |         |
| H.      |         |

FORM 1389 a

201-233477

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING & DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No. (35)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
## S-E-C-R-E-T

ORIG : John Kelly
UNIT: AF/5
EXT : 5032
DATE: 26 January 1963

IT'S NO. 201-235477

ROUTING
1
4
2
5
3
6

22 31 09

TO: FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE RE Filing (destroy,
No CS Record Vale Pastrov,
RI file this copy mehiatel 43-43
Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked
None required

DEFERRED
XX ROUTINE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

Signature:
INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 3, CDC, C/EE 3, C/SR 4, S/C 2.

TO FRAN INFO LEOP CITE DIR 12271

RUBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE 12271

![illegible annotation]

![stamp DESENITIZED per CSN 43-43-]

![RI COPY stamp]

|         |     |
| ------- | --- |
| AUVAN   |     |
| RID/MIS |     |
| RID/FI  |     |
| DESTROY |     |

FORM 1389 a

![stamp DESENITIZED per CSH. 43-43-]

201-235477
(35)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
## S-E-C-R-ET

ORIG: John Kelly

UNG: 15

EXT: 70

DATE: January 1963

TO: FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 3, CDC, C/EE, CSR 43-42, SR 4, S/C 2

TO: FRAN INFO: LEOP

RYBAT: HARVARD TECHS WIROQUE

REF EGOA 18988.

ROUTING

![Routing Table]

22 JAN 63 01 09z

SIG CEN

![Signature]

DEFERRED

XX ROUTINE

CITE DIR 12271

12271 JK

NOT TO EXCEED #3,000.

1.  HQS RECOMMENDS IMPLEMENTATION PARA 3 B REFA CONCUR OPIBEX
    LETTER ATTESTING TO SOLVENCY AND MONTHLY PAYMENTS RATHER THAN LUMP SUM.

AFRKHAND HAVE CAPABILITY PROVIDE IN GENERAL TERMS INFO REQUESTED PARA 3 D
REF IF LAGEND AND SPECIFIC DATES SUPPLIED.

END OF MESSAGE

![Signature]

C/EE

RELEASING OFFICER

![Signature]

AF/COPS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No. 111-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

261-237477

|     | ROUTING |
| --- | ------- |
| 1   | 4       |
| 2   | 5       |
| 3   | 6       |

DATE: 10 JAN 63 JM

Ὁ: DIRECTOR

ROM: FRANKFURT C/AF-3

ACTION: Shes AF/5

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/AF

JAN 10 14232 63

ROUTINE

IN 47630

TO: DIR. INFO: LEOP

CITE FRAN 5867

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

| ROUTING | INITIAT |
| ------- | ------- |
| RID/AN  |         |
| RID/IIS |         |

per CSN 43-43

201-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

DATE: 071 10 JAN 63

TO : DIRECTOR-

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/AF 3

INFO: C/EE 3, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

JAN 10 18212 63

ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

IN 47630 A FRAN 5867

TO INFO CITE John

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM EE TO AF BY A. STEEL, EE, EXT. 6023 IN COORDINATION WITH SANDRA STEEL, AF, EXT. 5032.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

lol-233477

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 10 JAN 63 JM

TO DIRECTOR

FROM FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/EE 3

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/AF 3, S/C 2

ROUTING

JAN 10 1423Z 63

ROUTINE

IN 47630

TO DIR INFO LEOP CITE FRAN 5867

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

PLS REPLY EGOA-18888.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of John]

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-
MATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION 101-233477

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

S-E-C-R-E-T

HARVARD

MONTHLY RESETTLEMENT SUMMARY

1 31 January 1963

AGENTS AND IDENTITIES CASE OFFICER STATUS

CAHAVOC-1 DARONNAT Subject's papers for emplcy-
ment with the Bundeswehr-
sprachdienst are still being
processed. In the meantime
Subject continues to occupy
HARVARD housing.

CANDARE-3 REINBOLD Subject's housing problem
remains unchanged. There
is ne indication when the
problem will be solved.

DMMARGIN-3 REINBOLD Subject's political recognition
and Reiseausweis are expected
eariy in February. At that
time the case will be closed.

> [Figure: An asterisk to the left of the word WIROGUE indicates special attention.]
> WIROGUE DARONNAT HARVARD will begin making
> arrangements for Subject's
> South American immigration
> processing.

IDENTITY-264 DARONNAT HARVARD expects Subject's
visa to be issued in March.

IDENTITY-266 REINBOLD Subject will remain in
HARVARD housing until his
father, CANDARE-3, locates
housing of his own.

DS-997 DARONNAT Profession: Electrical
engineer

Rec'd by HARVARD: 15 January 1963
From: CABEZONE
Age: 34
Nationality: Czech
Resettlement Aims: United States Immigration
Evac. Code: B

Subject will be processed
for immigration to the
United States under PL-414.

S-E-C-R-E-T

Group 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and declassification

201-233477.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : GENEVA

ACTION: C/EE 3

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, RI/AiN DUMMY

SECRET 091615Z

FRAN INFO DIR BERN CITE GNVA 3574 (MIDDAUGH ACTING) 19 AUG 63 IN 96722

INK AIROGUE RYZAT

REF EGOA 19702

1. REGRET DELAY RESPONDING REF. PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER YOU
   STILL INTERESTED CONVERSATION WITH INSTRUMENT 17. LATTER SLATED
   LEAVE GNVA NEAR FUTURE FOR POS ICEM HONGKONG.

2. INDEX 201-116053.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

SECRET
HARVARD

SUMMARY OF RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITY

1 - 31 July 1963

# I. DEFECTOR CASES:

| Case Name                                    | Action Taken                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A. On Hand at Beginning of Reporting Period: |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| DS-102                                       | Subject's processing for immigration to the U.S. under PL-110 is continuing and it is expected that he will depart in the near future.                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| DS-105*                                      | Subject immigrated to CANADA 8 July 1963 on ICEM ship MS ARCADIA. Case closed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| DS-108                                       | Subject continues to study English while his processing for immigration to the U.S. under the Parolee Act is completed. He will give up his job in Ruesselsheim early next month and return to Frankfurt.                                                                                                                               |
| DS-109                                       | Subject's processing for immigration to the U.S. under the Parolee Act has been deferred until December 1963, Due to a change in the right lung, discovered while comparing recent and earlier x-rays, the U.S.P.H.S. has requested the deferment until sputum tests and future x-rays indicate the condition stabilized or eliminated. |
| DS-129                                       | Arrangements are being made through ODIBEX for Subject to receive FEDREP political recognition. CAMANTILLA will then assist in finding a job and housing on the local economy. In the meantime Subject is taking German language lessons.                                                                                               |
| IDEN-271                                     | Subject's life story has been prepared with appropriate changes regarding his defection in Ireland. The story will be presented to FEDREP authorities for political recognition and Subject will be found work and housing on the local economy.                                                                                        |

B. Received During Reporting Period:

NONE

Group 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and declassification

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

SECRET

-2-

C. Former Defector Resettlement Cases (or Cases Still in Stage II) Requiring HARVARD Action During the Reporting Period:

DS-964 HARVARD has learned through CAMANTILLA that Subject and wife have returned to the U.S. where both have found employment and are now apartment hunting.

DS-984 At Subject's request HARVARD made arrangements to obtain a duplicate of the deregistration form covering Subject's move from Frankfurt to Neuss in July 1962.

DS-999 Subject and family are being assisted in obtaining West German citizenship.

DS-127 Subject's Communist Party membership was discussed informally but at some length with the local ODURGE chief. Since the latter believed that Subject's membership would, according to the strict interpretation of the law, be ruled voluntary, processing for immigration to the U.S. under Public Law 110 has been requested.

* Resettled during the reporting period. Subject will not appear on next month's or subsequent HARVARD reports unless and until some new unforeseen aspect of the case arises requiring additional HARVARD action. In this event the case will be listed and the new action described under Category I C.

II. AGENT CASES:

Case Name Action Taken

A. On Hard at Beginning of Reporting Period:

CAHAVOC-1 Subject has begun to look for an apartment on the local economy. In the meantime he will continue to occupy HARVARD housing.

WIROGUE Subject's legend is being rewritten and when finished will provide the basis for a more plausible political recognition story. HARVARD hopes that with the substitution of the new story for the old, positive steps can be taken for Subject's resettlement.

IDEN-264 The morale problem created by the slow moving quota under which Subject is registered for U.S. immigration has required HARVARD to register her for immigration under the Parolee Act. It is expected that Subject will receive her visa in August or September but the Parolee Act will be used in the event the quota continues to remain unchanged.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SECRET

-3-

IDEN-272

HARVARD has been informed that Subject, under no condition, should be allowed to return to Austria. ODIBEX is exploring additional possibilities for Subject to stay and work in the FEDREP without restrictions.

IDEN-274

Subject has been enrolled in a 3 month photography school located in Hamburg. It commences in early September and is designed to prepare students for taking the examination for the masters certificate in photography, a must for someone working in this field in the FEDREP. In the interim, Subject is studying photographyon his own, utilizing borrowed MKTOPAZ equipment.

B. Received During Reporting Period:

NONE

C. Former Agent Resettlement Cases Requiring HARVARD Action During Reporting Period:

TULANCE-1

HARVARD continues to maintain contact with Subject through our local post box and is cabling Headquarters and other appropriate KUBARK elements the gist of each letter received.

IDEN-238, 242, and 244

HARVARD maintains periodic contact with this family and continues to pay the widow of IDEN-238 a monthly subsistance payment of DM 150. The family has been on vacation during the last three weeks.

1 DEN-247

Subject contacted HARVARD for the second time in recent weeks. She was visited and the new information passed on to BOB as before (See EGOA-20258, 22 July 1963).

I DEN-267

At Subject's request HARVARD arranged to obtain a duplicate of the deregistration form covering Subject's move from Frank- furt to Neuss in August 1962.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# HARVARD

SUMMARY OF RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITY

1 - 31 May 1963

I. DRC CASES:

| Case Name                                    | Action Taken                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| -------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| A. On Hand at Reginning of Reporting Period: |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DS-102                                       | A firm offer of employment with ODIBEX is anticipated. Subject will then be processed for immigration to the U.S. under PL-110.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DS-108                                       | Subject has a room and temporary employment in Rüsselsheim. He continues to study English while awaiting immigration to the U.S. under the Parolee Act. He was interviewed on 24 May by an Immigration and Naturalization Service Officer and will presumably receive a visa upon completion of the INS checks. |
| DS-109                                       | Subject has a room and temporary employment in Rüsselsheim. He continues to study English while awaiting immigration to the U.S. under the Parolee Act. He was interviewed on 24 May by an Immigration and Naturalization Service Officer and will presumably receive a visa upon completion of the INS checks. |
| B. Received During Reporting Period:         |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| DS-120                                       | Profession: Aircraft Mechanic and Pilot Rec'd by HARVARD: 31 May 1963 From: CABEZONE Nationality: Bulgarian Age: 23                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Group 1

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

SECRET

Case Name
DS-120 (cont)

Action Taken
No. of Deps: 0
Resettlement Officer:
Arther A. INFALL
HARVARD Resettlement
Aims: German Economy

While Subject aspires to be a U.S. military jet pilct, this is from many angles -- unrealistic. It is believed that Subject may, in time, be able to obtain an aircraft mechanic's job in West Germany and possibly a commercial pilot's license. This will probably have te be preceded by work as an automobile mechanic while learning the German language.

IDEN-271*

Profession: Mathematician
Rec'd by HARVARD: 7 May 1963
From: CABEZONE
Nationality: Czech
Age: 40
No. of Deps: 0
Resettlement Officer:
Orme K. DARONNAT
HARVARD Resettlement
Aims: German Economy

Subject will be processed for political recognition and appropriate FEDREP documentation. He has been made [SEP eligible and through CAMANTILLA will be helped to find work and housing on the local economy.

C. Former Cases (or Cases Still in DRC Stage 1) Requiring HARVARD Action During the Reporting Ferind.

DS-782
HARVARD, at the request of FOB, contacted AMCONGEN Frankfurt to determine the status of Subject's visa application. It was learned that the case can not be written up until necessary checks are completed. It would appear that the case will not he Submitted to Washington for at least three weeks.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

SECRET

Case Name Action Taken

DS-999 Subject and family were forwarded application forms for filling out and return in connection with their obtaining West German citizenship. Subject's new address was pouched BOB in response to the latter's request.

DS-105 Subject visited the Canadian Consulate in Cologne on 30 May to initiate arrangements for his immigration. HARVARD had briefed him on this trip beforehand in accordance with the information contained in OTTA 0710. He was treated extremely well and ail went very smoothly. It appears that he will be able to immigrate shortly after completion of his Stage II debriefing.

IDEN-265 At the request of Subject, HARVARD returned several of his original documents providing proof of schooling.

IDEN-273* While Subject's limited handling by CABEZONE is being completed, HARVARD has initiated the procurement of the necessary West German documentation to allow him to remain and work in West Germany. fie will be turned over to CAMANTILLA who will assist him in obtaining employment.

1:

AGENT CASES:

Case Name Action Taken

A. On Hand at Beginning of Reporting Period:

CAHAVOC-1 Subject began work on 15 May at Di 714 monthly. He will not receive permanent assignment and housing allowance until the end of his probationary period. It is possible, therefore, that he will remain in HARVARD housing until that time.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# SECRET

## Case Name

WIROGUE

IDEN-264

## Action Taken

HARVARD with the assist- ance of Stage I is attempt- ing to work up a suitable legend for use in immi- gration to South America consistent with Subject's political recognition interview.

Subject has found work on the local economy at DM 500 monthly. She will continue to stay in HARVARD housing until her visa is issued and immigration can take place.

B. Received During Reporting Period:

IDEN-272*

Profession: Tock Designer
Rec'd by HARVARD: 21 May 1963
From: Vienna Station
Nationality: Hungarian
Age: 27
No. of Deps: 0
Resettlement Officer:
Orme K. DARONNAT
HARVARD Resettlement Aims:
German Economy

Subject will be processed for Aufenthaltserlaubnis and registered. He will be picked up as a refugee case by CAMANTILLA and helped to find work and housing on the local economy.

C. Former Agent Resettlement Cases Requiring HARVARD Action During The Reporting Period:

AEPOLE-25

HARVARD continues to assist Subject in his efforts to establish, for West German income tax purposes, that he has helped contribute to the support of his ex- wife living in the USSR.

DIO-14

A request was received from the State of Maryland asking for information on Subject, who immigrated to the U.S. under FL-110 in January 1956. Since all of Subject's records were transferred with him, the inquiry was referred to Headquarters in EGOA- 19903, 28 May 1963.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

# SECRET

| Case Name | Action Taken |
| --------- | ------------ |

DMMARGIN-3 | In response to a query from BOB, HARVARD provided clarification on the purpose and handling of Subject's Einweisungverfuegung.

TULANCE-1 | HARVARD continues to maintain contact with Subject through our local post box and is cabling Headquarters and other appropriate KUBARK elements the gist of each letter received.

IDENTITY-238, 241 and 242 | HARVARD maintains periodic contact with this family and continues to pay the widow of Identity-238 a monthly subsistence payment of DM 150.

IDENTITY-270 | Additional West German documentation (Abmeldebestaetigung, Versicherungskarte and Lohnsteuerkarte) were obtained during the month and forwarded to BOB. Subject is currently being processed for West German recognition.

* See Separate Cover Attachment for true name.

III. MISCELLANEOUS ACTIVITY:

A. Effective 10 May 1963, Arthur A. LIFALL, Chief, HARVARD, became the Station Case Officer for Project CAMANTILLA (See EGOA-19737).

B. A request for a provisional and full covert security approval on the local ODURGE officer who does the actual interviewing of HARVARD's candidates for immigration has been initiated. CSA has already been obtained on the local ODURGE chief. The additional clearance should allow us to develop an even better working relationship with these officers than has existed heretofore, When received, it is planned to brief both individuals in greater detail on CABEZONE/HARVARD operations.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

SECRET

Under Separate Cover Attachment to EGOT-19339, dated 3 June 1963

IDENTITY 271 JANOS, Ludvik (FRAN-8548, 2 May 1963)

IDENTITY 272 SOS, Zsigmund (FROB-4732, 30 April 1963)

IDENTITY 273 RADISAVLJEVIC, Radisav (FRAN-9305, 31 May 1963)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

# DISPATCH

COS, Geneva

Chief, XE; Chief, AF; Chief, WH

Chief of Station, Germany

WIROGUE/Resettlement

See Para 10

DIR 24971, dated 15 March 1963

1. In May 1962 HARVARD took over the task of resettling WIROGUE, a former REDSOX agent candidate and later African Division agent. Per WIROGUE's request and with Headquarters concurrence, HARVARD agreed to help subject in immigrating to South America.

2. Subject was relieved of his documents (Austrian passport in alias and not backstopped) and the first steps were taken to prepare for eventual immigration. It was decided that subject would require documentation which would stand up under the investigation of immigration authorities. Therefore, he was given a new name and with the help of SZS and ODIISI received a Beiseinssweets and political recognition from the West German Government. The latter was granted on the basis of a fabricated story in which subject purports to be a defector from the Georgian KGB who escaped while with a tourist group in East Berlin.

3. With documentation in order, subject was sent to the local Columbian Consulate to apply for permission to immigrate, as HARVARD had hopes that subject would be able to process on his own with a minimum of red tape by bypassing refugee organization channels and by having letters of recommendation and letters of solvency. This was not the case, and the Columbian Consulate informed subject he could immigrate only by processing through the Intergovernmental Committee for European Migration.

4. Due to the nature of this case and certain inherent problems, e.g., subject has a criminal record in France and was a long-time resident there, speaks less than fluent Georgian, speaks no Russian even though his story for political recognition indicates he was a lieutenant in the Soviet Army, has no real profession although he is self-taught in the electro-mechanical field and is confident he can pass a job test as master mechanic, etc, it was imperative that the specific details of ICEM processing be learned in order to find out and be prepared for the problems which would certainly arise if he immigrates through ICEM.

5. HARVARD discussed the basic outline of the problems with the Chief, Refugee Migration Section, American Consulate General, Munich and Chief, CAMARTALIA, and established that subject's processing through ICEM would include a security investigation and detailed interviews and job testing, since ICEM is determined that only "high level" typos will immigrate through them to South America. HARVARD proposes to continue with the emigration plans and, although Chief SZS and Chief, CAMARTALIA have been most helpful and have been able to learn ICEM procedures taken on refugee migration applicants, they have been forced to refrain from appearing too inquisitive.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

# EGDA 19702

...that INSTRUMENT 17 as former special director of ICEM might be able to help with any type of investigation which will be run on subject and possibly be in a position to stop the investigation, possibly if it included a check with INTERPOL.

7. HARVARD has been able to establish that subject is not on record with INTERPOL except possibly in France and hopes to have this checked out through CARAVEL within the next month.

8. HARVARD had also hoped that INSTRUMENT 17 might have details of the ICEM mechanism which would be desirable to know for a case of this type, especially since a slip-up might cause embarrassment for KUBARK, ODINE and the Federal Republic. With these inside details we would be in a better position to prepare subject for his interview, or, if necessary, to drop the immigration plans. We feel it extremely important to know how many interviews subject will undergo, how searching these interviews will be, the probability that subject will be interviewed in Russian or in Georgian (subject speaks German and fairly good English), what preparations can be made to insure that the processing runs as smoothly as possible, how intensive is the job testing, etc.

9. HARVARD had felt that Charles T. HOROWITZ's personal friendship with INSTRUMENT 17 might result in such more additional information regarding the above than would be the case with a meeting between Orme K. DARRAGNAT and INSTRUMENT 17 alone. Hence CAMERONE cable 7285 to Geneva.

10. It appears HOROWITZ's presence is no longer required and therefore it is requested that, if INSTRUMENT 17 is in a position to supply the kind of "inside ICEM" informatics HARVARD needs, an appointment be made with INSTRUMENT 17 for Orme K. DARRAGNAT to discuss this problem with him, unless Donovan feels it is in a position to do so on HARVARD's behalf.

GENE K. BARCHAT

APPROVED:

ARNOLD J. LYACK

Distribution:
2 - COS, Geneva
2 - Chief, EE
2 - Chief, AP
2 - Chief, WH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

DATE : 034 19 MAR 63 7/10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: BONN

ACTION: AF 7

INFO: EE 4, S/C 2

TO INFO CITE

HARVARD LCIMPROVE WIROGUE

ROUTING

MAR 20 16542 63
ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

IN 89733A BONN 4350

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM EE TO AF BY BILL BRENDLE EE IN COORDINATION WITH JOHN KELLY AF EXT 5457.

S-E-C-R-E-T

GROUP 1.
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 18 MAR 63

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: AF 7

INFO: EE 4, S/C 2

TO
INFO
file wirique soft file
HARVARD LCINPROVE WIROGUE

ROUTING

MAR 20 1654Z 63
ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

IN 88799 FRAN 7407

CITE

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM EE TO AF BY BILL BRENDLE EE IN COORDINATION WITH JOHN KELLY AF EXT 5457

S-E-C-R-E-T

20-233477
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

ACTION: EE 6

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, COC, AF 4, SR 6, S/C 2

SECRET 131611Z

BONN INFO DIR CITE FRAN 7407

HARVARD LCIMPROVE WIROGUE

REF, FRAN 6489(62960)

18 MAR 1963 IN88799

1. FOR RESETTLEMENT PURPOSES IT IMPORTANT HARVARD KNOW
   WHETHER WIROGUE LISTED INTERPOL. CAN BONN DISCREETLY MAKE THIS
   DETERMINATION?

2. NO FRAN TRACES UNDER NAMES DAVID TZITZICHVILI OR DAVID
   DE PANASKHET DPOB 20 DEC 1919 TIFLIS, USSR.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUGGESTED CAVATA BE ADVISED WIRAGE WILL PROBABLY BE RESETTLED
OUTSIDE GERMANY.

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

1. 
# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE : 1 FEB 63

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

SECTION: EE 6

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, CDC, TSD 5, AF 4, S/C 2

ADDED: AF 3 (ACTION)

PRITY BONN INFO DIR BRLN CITE FRAN 6399
HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS VIROGUE

REF EGNA 25253

1. SUBJ REF IS HARVARD AGENT DISPOSAL CASE VIROGUE REGISTERED
   CAMP KING WHERE HE PROCESSED 2S AUG 62 FOR POLITICAL RECOGNITION.
   IN ORDER LEGALIZE HIM FOR RESETTLEMENT.

2. CASE DISCUSSED WITH MR. JOHN WILLS WHO WILL VISIT BONN
   5 FEB AND WILL TAKE MATTER UP DIRECTLY WITH CHIEF, CAVATA TELLING
   HIM THIS AIS CASE AND ASK HIM NOT PURSUE.

PLS ADVISE PRIORITY IF YOU DESIRE WILLS CHECK IN WITH YOU
PRIOR HIS VISIT CAVATA.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 2 FEB 63

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : BONN

ACTION: EE 6

INFO : CI, CI/CPS, FI, CDC, TSD 5, AF 4, SR 6, S/C 2

ROUTINE

PRITY FRAN INFO DIR BRLN CITE BONN 4139

HARVARD LCIMPROVE CAVATA TECHS CIROCKE

REF FRAN 6399 CIN 60224 INE0901

1. SINCE THIS IS APPARENTLY A KUBARK CASE AND ORIGINAL QUERY CAME FROM CAVATA TO KUBARK ELEMENT OCA, FAIL UNDERSTAND NEED FOR TRANSMITTING REPLY TO CAVATA VIA 513TH REP. ALSO DO NOT FEEL IT NECESSARY CONTACT CAVATA CHIEF IN RESPONSE ROUTINE WORKING LEVEL CAVATA QUERY. THIS MAY BE ATTEMPT ON WILLMS PART TO FIND EXCUSE VISIT CAVATA CHIEF.

2. IF THIS ROUTINE CAREZONE CASE FEEL STAGE I DEBRIEFING AND ASSESSMENT WHICH NORMALLY PASSED CAVATA VILL SATISFY LATTER'S NEEDS. ON OTHER HAND IF KUBARK HAS CONTINUING OPERATIONAL INTEREST AS PARAGRAPH 2 IMPLIES WE CAN INFORM CAVATA ACCORDINGLY THROUGH NORMAL CHANNELS

3. PLEASE ADVISE

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: FRAN ASKED BONN ADVISE IF DESIRES WILLMS CHECK IN WITH BONN PRIOR VISIT CAVATA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

S-E-C-R-E-T

HARVARD

MONTHLY RESETTLEMENT SUMMARY

1 - 31 December 1962

| AGENTS AND IDENTITIES | CASE OFFICER | STATUS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| --------------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CAHAVOC-1             | DARONNAT     | Subject's papers for employment with the Bundeswehr-sprachdienst are still being processed. In the meantime Subject continues to occupy HARVARD housing.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| CANDARE-3             | REINBOLD     | Subject is still trying to line up his own housing in the Frankfurt area. In the meantime he, his wife and son are living in a HARVARD apartment.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| DMMARGIN-3            | REINBOLD     | Profession: Barber Rec'd by HARVARD: 27 December 1962 From: BOB Age: 42 Nationality: Yugoslav Resettlement Aims: Local economy Evac. Code: B Subject was processed for his West German documentation and recognition as a bona fide political refugee. He received his Fremdenpass on 27 December 1962 and will get his recognition and Reiseausweis sometime in January 1963. At that time the case will be closed. |
| WIROGUE               | DARONNAT     | HARVARD is awaiting Head-quarter's advice regarding the implementation of Subject's S.A. immigration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| IDENTITY-264          | DARONNAT     | AMCONGEN Frankfurt has advised HARVARD that Subject's visa should be issued in late February or early March.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| IDENTITY-266          | REINBOLD     | Subject, the son of CANDARE-3 is helping his parents find housing in the Frankfurt area. He is still gainfully employed.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Group 1

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

S-E-C-R-E-T

41-233477.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

S-E-C-R-E-T

- 2 -

IDENTITY-268 REINBOLD Subject's refugee processing has been delayed due to the fact he is under 21 years of age and thus necessitates special consideration and treatment. It is expected, however, that he will have his Notaufnahmeverfahren sometime in January 1963.

DS-987 REINBOLD It is still hoped that Subject's parole processing will be completed in time to enable him and his wife to make the 31 January 1963 ICEM charter flight.

DS-990 REINBOLD Subject seems to be getting along well on his job as a technical assistant with a construction company. Through CAMANTILLA he is studying German and plans are being made to enroll him in a special school which will enable him to receive his diploma as a geodetic engineer. In the meantime, Headquarters will be queried Re ops interest in Subject to determine whether he should remain on present job or consider employment with RFE or VOA.

SUPPORT CASES

TULANCE-1 DARONNAT HARVARD continues to maintain contact with Subject through our local postbox. Headquarters and other appropriate KUBARK elements are being kept advised of Subject's status Re: political asylum, etc.

IDENTITY-238, 241, 242 REINBOLD Steps are being taken to work out the method of payment to the family for the DM 42,000 approved by Headquarters for housing.

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

S-E-C-R-E-T

- 3 -

DS-856 DARONNAT Subject is seen from time to time for purposes of identifying pictures of people of Ops interest.

DS-997 DARONNAT Subject's processing for immigration to the United States under PL-414 is continuing.

DS-998 DARONNAT Subject's processing for immigration to the United States under PL-414 is continuing. His papers will not be submitted to AMCONGEN until he is re-interviewed by KUBARK staff psychiatrist in January 1963.

RESETTLEMENTS AND DISPOSALS

TULANCE-1 DARONNAT Subject has been documented and moved to Switzerland where he has requested political asylum. Subject will be handled as a support case until he receives asylum or is permanently resettled.

IDENTITY-269 REINBOLD Subject's federal refugee processing was completed on 18 December 1962 when he received his Notaufnahme-verfahren. No difficulty is expected with his C Schein processing. Case considered closed.

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

S-E-C-R-E-T

HARVARD

MONTHLY RESETTLEMENT SUMMARY

1 - 31 October 1962

| AGENTS AND IDENTITIES | CASE OFFICER | STATUS                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| --------------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| CAHAVOC-1             | DARONNAT     | Subject has registered with the pclice and is busily engaged in seeking employment.                                                                                                                                 |
| CANDARE-3             | REINBOLD     | Subject flew to Berlin on 18 October to close out his personal matters and arrange for his move to Frankfurt..                                                                                                      |
| TULANCE-1             | DARONNAT     | In view of OLDMOOR's inability to expend time on TULANCE's resettlement, HARVARD will go ahead, after receiving permission and guidance from Headquarters, with plans to attempt to resettle Subject per DIR 33746. |
| WIROGUE               | DARONNAT     | Subject will continue to receive subsistence and housing while the details of his S.A. immigration are worked out.                                                                                                  |
| IDENTITY 264          | DARONNAT     | Subject has submitted new x-rays to the Public Health Service and must await final decision from Paris. In the meantime, Subject is convalescing from a recent appendicitis cperation.                              |
| IDENTITY 266          | REINBOLD     | Subject flew to Berlin with his father, CANDARE 3. He continues to be gainfully employed.                                                                                                                           |
| IDENTITY 268          | REINBOLD     | Profession: Mechanic Rec'd by HARVARD: 1 October 1962 Prom: BOB Age: 19 Nationality: German HARVARD Resettlement Aims: Local Evac. Code: B economy                                                                  |

Subject was assisted in filling cut his application form for his Giessen processing and advised on how to procede Re obtaining nis West German personal documentation and employment. Once his Gressen processing is completed the case will be closed.

S-E-C-R-E-T

Group 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

S-E-C-R-E-T

- 2 -

DS-989 REINBOLD Profession: Machine construction engineer

Rec'd by HARVARD: 4 October 1962

From: CAPEZONE

Age: 34

Nationality: Polish

Religion: Roman Catholic

HARVARD Resettlement Aims: United States

See Resettlements and Disposals.

DS-990 REINBOLD On 1 November 1962 Subject will be turned over to CAMANTILLA which has made him USEP eligible and arranged to have him study German full time for one month. Prior to the end of November 1962, it is hoped that Subject will be employed by TPFEELING which has expressed an interest in him, or employed on the local economy with a German engineering firm.

SUPPORT CASES

IDENTITY 238, 241, 242 REINBOLD An all out effort is being made to solve the family's housing problem discussed by HOFSOOS, REINBOLD and the BEVISIONS on 4 October 1962. Steps will also be taken to assist IDENTITY 241 in finding suitable employment.

DS-856 DARONNAT Subject is seen from time to time for purposes of identifying people of Ops interest.

DS-987 REINBOLD Word was recently received from Headquarters indicating that Subject and his family's immigration under PL-86-648 can soon be initiated.

DS-992 REINBOLD It has been decided that due to a previous agreement, KUBARK, under no circumstances, will intervene on behalf of Subject in his immigration.

DS-997 DARONNAT Although Subject is still in Stage II, processing for immigration to the United States under PL 414 has begun.

DS-998 DARONNAT Although Subject is still in Stage II, processing for immigration to the United States under PL 414 has begun.

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

S-E-C-R-E-T

-3-

## RESETTLEMENTS AND DISPOSALS

DS-974 DARONNAT Subject and family immigrated to the United States on 2 October 1962 under PL 414. Case closed.

DS-982 DARONNAT Subject obtained housing and employment on the local economy. Case closed.

DS-989 REINBOLD Subject immigrated under PL 86-648 on 30 October 1962 via ICEM Flight MISAB 121193. PAIRC, as sponsor, will handle his resettlement. Case closed.

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

1 5

2 *CEP*

3 *Ch*

4

5

6

N. Roberts

AP/5

5032

13 August 1962

1720

FRANKFURT INFO: LEOPOLOVILLE (BY FOUCH)

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC/TSD 2, C/EE 3, H 5, S/C 2

TO FRAN INFO LEOP

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

REF: DIR 27679

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 65370

CITE DIR 29622

WISH DRAW WIROGUE ATTENTION ARGENTINA ACCEPTING I MIGRANTS WITHOUT QUOTA RESTRICTIONS. SEEKING FARM AND SKILLED WORENS, REFUSING WHITE COLLAR. GOOD LIVING CAN BE MADE IN PROVINCES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: OUT 62136, PC RESETTLING WIROGUE.

![signature]

C/EE

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICIALS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

201-233477

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: N. Roberts
UNIT: AP/5
EXT: 5032
DATE: 13 August 1962

TO: FRANKFURT INFO: LEOPOLDVILLE (BY POUCH)
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/EE 3, C/WH: 5, S/C 2

TO: FRAN INFO: LEOP
RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE
REF: DIR 27679

![checkbox] RE Filing (check one)
![checkbox] If file this copy as indicated.
![checkbox] Branch copy filed as indicated
![checkbox] RE Indexing (check one).
![checkbox] Marked
![checkbox] None required
Signature:

> [Figure: Routing table with handwritten entries in the routing and initial columns]

DESENSITIZED per CSN 43-43


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: H. ROBERTS.
UNIT: AF/5
EXT: 5:57
DATE: 3 AUGUST 1962 1653

TO: FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/1SD-2, C/EE 3, C/... S/C 2

TO: FRAN

INFO LEOP(

RYRAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

REF: A. FRAN 1854 (IN 33838)

B. DIR 15840 (OUT 91968)

ROUTING
SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT62136
CITE DIR 27679

1. PER REF B, KURIOT STRONGLY URGES BACKSTOPPED FREMDENPASS BEST LONG RUN VEHICLE RESETTLE AND LEGALIZE WIROGUE (W). WITH FREMDENPASS W COULD EVENTUALLY BECOME CITIZEN OF SELECTED COUNTRY. HQS FEELS W SHOULD OBTAIN ONE RESIDENCE VISA USING FREHDENPASS OR OTHER DOCUMENTATION. SUGGEST COLOMEIA OR BRAZIL BEST AREAS BUT QUESTION HINGES ON WHERE W CAN GET SELF ACCEPTED. KUBARK ABILITY AID LEGALIZATION LIMITED AND BEST HAVE LEGALIZATION BEGIN NOW BACKSTOPPED TO WITHSTAND LATER CHECKS FROM COUNTRY OF CHOICE.

2. CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS FOR COUNTRIES MENTIONED REF A PLUS BRAZIL REQUIRE FOUR TO FIVE YEARS CONTINUOUS RESIDENCY. TO ENTER AND REMAIN RESIDENCE VISA REQUIRED WHICH MUST ER RENEWED PERIODICALLY. ALL COUNTRIES QUEPIKO SAID NERD APPLICATION AT CONSULATE, EXPLANATION OF FINANCIAL MEANS, MANNER INTENDED TO MAKE LIVING, AND POLICS CERTIFICATE FROM COUNTRY OF ORIGIN.

3. HQS SUGGESTS COUNTRIES OF W INTEREST MIGHT 52 MORE RECEPTIVE TO AGRICULTURAL AMBITIONS RATHER THAN BUSINESS OR INDUSTRIAL PURSUITS. W ONCE MENTIONED HE INTERESTED OPENING CHICKEN FARM IN CONGO. SINCE W MUST SHOW PLAN FOR EARNING LIVING SUGGEST SIMILAR LINE WITH SAMERICAN COUNTRY APPROACHED

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR        PAGE TWO

CONF:

INFO:

TO FRAN            INFO LEOP

FOR RESIDENCE VISA FOR MOST SYMPATHETIC HEARING.

4. SHOULD BE STRESSED FROM BEGINNING THAT ONLY KUBARK CONTACT AFTER
   W SUCCESSFULLY RESETTLED WILL BE LETTER DROP.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: QUERIED SUBJ RE PREFERENCE S AMERICAN COUNTRY AND STATED THAT
WILL GO ANYWHERE.


3-62
ROUTING

322 142

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT62136

CITE DIR 27679

![signature]

AF/COP/P

WR/FI/CPS

B.N. KORN-PATTERSON

CAF/5

TSD COORDINATED IN DRAFT BY Jos. BURNIGER

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

Copy No.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DUNNY CABLE FORM

OUT: 62136

DATE: [DESANITIZED stamp] per CSN 43-43

DIR STA: 27679

TO: FRAN

INFO: LEOP

DISTRIBUTION

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
ACTION

CLASSIFICATION: S TS KAPOK RYBAT LAURICLE

REF

SUBJECT

[DESANITIZED stamp] per CSN 43-43

SECRET

FORM NO. 586a REPLACES FORM 59-163A
1 APR 55 WHICH MAY BE USED.

(44)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: *SINUOUS* RESETTLEMENT AMERICA

DATE: 31 July 1962

FROM: Nora Roberts

A contacted Mrs. Weery, WH/SL OPS, X 5289, KM J04-04, for initial discussion concerning resettlement of *SINUOUS* in some South American country.

She in turn brought Mr. Raul Paxton, W/C WH/SI/URS, into the discussion. They agreed that AR was approaching the correct channel but were not inclined to thank us for our gift.

AR JJBJO suggested *SINUOUS* preferred Venezuela, Chile or Columbia for resettlement. AR stated Chile is out, principally because for a foreigner to establish a legitimate business in face of government regulations is very difficult if not impossible. The same applies but to a lesser extent with Venezuela which is also a more troubled area. Mrs. Weery and Mr. Paxton both expressed the fear that *SINUOUS* might only add to Venezuela's troubles.

The next step in this problem is to talk to Mr. Marlowe Murfin, D/C DR/I (Columbia and Venezuela) in SH and obtain his reaction. Mr. Weery wishes to be included in this talk. Brazil was mentioned as the most likely resettlement area but the areas mentioned would be explored first. In any case, the concurrence of the CUS involved would have to be obtained.

We all concurred that the less contact, no matter how indirect, had with *SINUOUS* the better for all concerned. Mr. Paxton suggested any payments made to *SINUOUS* might be done from Germany through an international Bank thus alleviating the station of even this responsibility. It would also be one less clue to *SINUOUS* that our representatives might be in the area.

A 5613
AM J0001

201-235477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

E. Green FY

SECRET

2. Meeting 1400, sorm 400erts, rs, weery and nariove muffin.

Ar. Martin's viewpoint was that he could not prevent as sending waKUGUS to any of the countries, but did reel some other division besides in should assume the responsibility in case of a siap. ne pointed out that en stations were small enough so it would not be difficult for a fairly clever individual to identify the cus and probably the case officers in a station, in this case, and snovia slowus attempt to apply pressure through such knowledge, Mr. Mariin wished someone besides a un field officer to take inubus by the scruri of the neck ang tell n him to move on."

110818ted, however, that no matter how heavy "the pressure Décame all any field officer could do was to make a aenial, plausible or otherwise,

Mrs. Geery suggested that perhaps SR, since they had originally recruited VIROGUE, should assume such responsibility. (She is hardly realistic but anything is possible.)

A second suggestion made by Mr. Duffin is worth further consideration.

He stated that WH has had continual difficulty in establishing contract agents in business throughout SA. However, these countries tended to be much more receptive to people planning agricultural pursuits and he felt resettlement and possibility for livlihood would be much greater should WIROGUE approach the country atry or countries of his choice with some agricultural proposition.

I remember WIROGUE mentioned that he had investigated the possibility of chicken farming in the Congo. Such an approach in Så might (a) make him more acceptable as an immigrant to that country and (d) provide a long term basis to make him self-supporting.

I did promise to keep Mr. Duffin and Mrs. Geery informed of any further actions taken concerning WIROGUE which would affect their area. It was also at least strongly implied that either Columbia of Brazil might be the best areas, though the final choice essentially sts on on what country WIROGUE can enter.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

465. 
DATE : 24 JUL 62 DJM

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: AF 3

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/EE 3, S/C 2**

ROUTING

JUL 24 1840Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 33838

DIR INFO LEOP CITE FPAN 1854.

DE DIR 24954. COUT 57642)**

SUBJECT REQUERIED PE PREFERENCE SAMERICAN CO TRY AND STATED
THAT THOUGH WILL GO ANYWHERE WE ABLE FACILITATE LECALIZATION INCLUDING CITIZENSHIP HE PRECEPS VENEZUELA CHILE OP COLCIBIA.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR ZIBET USED.

**DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

***FOR WIROGUE RESETTLEMENT.

![WIROGUE]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: ROBERT BOUCHARD
UNIT: AF/5
EXT: 5032 1563
DATE: 19 July 1962

TO FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/AF 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, S/C 2, C/EE 3

TO FRAN INFO LEOP

RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

REF: A. FRAN 1467 (IN 23745)

B. LEOP 4255 (IN 24232)

1. ATTEMPTING DETERMINE SAMERICAN COUNTRY MOST SUITABLE FOR SUBJECT RELOCATION BUT DIFFICULT WITHOUT HAVING SOME IDEA WIROGUE PREFERENCE.

2. AGREE IN PRINCIPLE PAY TRAVEL COST TO RESETTLEMENT AREA. PREFER NOT GIVE LUMP SUM FOR INTERIM EXPENSES PER PARA 3C REF A AND CONCUR PARA 2 REF B. ANY CASE FINAL DECISION DEPENDS ON AREA SELECTED. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

AF/5 lgardiner

TDD (Boerniger-phone) COORDINATING OFFICERS

C/EE/a
RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Brige, fr

AF/COPS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORNG: RODERT BOUCHARL

UNIT: AP/5

EXT: 5032 1563

DATE: 19 July 1963

TO: FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLR

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF. C/AF 3

INFO. ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/F50 2,5/2, C/EE 3

201-233477

ROUTING

1

2

3

4

5

6

23 JUL 19 39z

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

CUTOT142

TO: FRAM INFO LEOP

CITE DIR 24964

: RYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

REF: A. FRAN 1467 (IN 23745)

B. LROP 4358 (IN 24332)

![Signature of someone with the first name beginning with 'M']

FORM 1389 Use Previous Editions

ROUTING INITIAL

RID/FI

DESTROY

DESLASITIZED per CSN 43-43

21 233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

# SECRET

DATE: 6 JUL 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: LEOPOLDVILLE.

ACTION: C/EE 2.

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/AF 3, S/C 2

ROUTINE

JUL 6 15012 62

IN 24232

DIR INFO FRAN CITE LEOP 4255

RYPAT HARVARD TECHS WIROGUE

REF FRAN 1467(23745)

1. URGE WIROGUE DOCUMENTATION BE PICKED UP AND HELD AND THAT

STEPS BE TAKEN PREVENT HIM RETURNING CONGO PER PARA 2 REF.

2. VIEW PAST EXPERIENCE SUGGEST WIROGUE NOT BE GIVEN LUMP

SUM BUT THAT FUNDS BE USED AS CARROT AND DOLED OUT ONCE HE REACHES

RESETTLEMENT AREA.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR NYXIS USED.

**WIROGUE STATED GERMAN FIRM WHICH KNOWS HIM AS REINER IS INTERESTED IN

SENDING HIM TO CONGO AS BUSINESS REP.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

485

DATE: 5 JUL 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/EE 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/AF 3, S/C 2

JUL 5 20362 62

ROUTINE

IN 23745

R.B.

DIP INFO LECP CITE FRA 1457

PYBAT HARVARD TECHS WIPOSUE

1. SUBJ WITHOUT FUDS AND DISCOURAGED BY INABILITY SELL INVENTION AND REALIZATION NO LONGER MEEDED BYODYOKE. IS THUS
   READY AND ANXIOUS LEAVE GERM SOGHEST AND GO ANYWHERE WE ABLE ASST HIM. EVEN WILLING FOREGO RETURN TO CONGO AND GIVE UP ALL DOCUMENTATION IN NAME RRINGT.

2. SUBJ STATED COPY FIPY WHICH KNOWS HIM AS REINER IS INTERESTED IN SENDING HIM CONGO AS BUSINESS PER. THOUGH RATHER GO WHERE WE DECIDE HE INDICATES ANY UNDUE DELAY OUR PART MAY FORCE HIM TO SERICUSLY CONSIDER GEEM OFFER..

3. DESIRE HOS ADVICE PE:

A. FRAN 1199.CIN 155107

B. PERMISSION PAY SUPIS TRAVEL COSES TO PESSTILSKENT AREA.

C. WHETHER HE SHOULD RECEIVE MONEY TO HOLD HIM

CUEP TIL SELF SUFFICIENT OP WHETHER PE WILL GET HOUSING,
EMPLOYMENT AND FINANCIAL HELP IN PESETTLEMENT AREA.

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

3-1-25

1858

EOB:

Action for this cable (FRAN 1467) assumed by this branch.
Mr. Phelps on German desk said the only restriction on action at the moment is how much money we, AF/5, are willing to put out.

Next, called Mr. Kallander, TSD, ext 3391. I agreed to contact him again if and when we got down to facts as to just what documentation papers we would require. However, he pointed out that it would first be necessary for us to clear such action, ie., putting this character into a country, with the area desk involved. Furthermore, he indicated that this may not be too easy a task given WIROGUE's background, etc.

Once we get clearance from an area desk, he says we should sit down with the area desk, TED, and AF/5 to determine the best documentation and method of resettlement. OK? Jol Seininger #-3137
Clay Callender #-3391

201-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

520

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE : 22 JUN 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/AF 3

INFO : C/TSD 2, S/C 2

DESENORIZED

per CSN 43-43

ROUTING

1 5

2 4

3 5

JUN 29 1646Z 62
ACTION CHANGE

ROUTINE

FRAN 1188 IN 15816 A

TO INFO CITE

RYBAT WIROGUE HARVARD TECHS Gardina RB

C/S COMMENT: ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED FROM TSD TO AF BY KALLANDER, TSD, EXT 3391 IN COORDINATION WITH MR. KORN-PATTERSON, AF, EXT 5571.

S-E-C-R-E-T

201-2334771

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# CYSECTET

232
DATE : 22 JUN 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/TSD 2

INFO : ADDP, C/CI, C/FI2, CDC, CTAR 3 YEE 3, s/c 2

ROUTING

JUN 22 11582 62

ROUTINE

IN 15816

RB
D. M.

DIS INFOSITE FRAN LISS
RYDA HIROSE HARVARD TECHS

PES. DIR 17426 (OUT 94704)

P. DIR 15543 (OUT 91968)

C. FSAN 2905 ("NGHIC)

1. SE SES A: HARVARD HAS INFO OF SOUTH AMERICAN CIT REQUIRE-
   MENTS DATED AUG 59. SUBJ HAS NO PREFERENCE SAMERICAN COUNT RY
   BUT DESIRES GO ONLY WHERE WE MELE FACILITATE LEGALIZATION INCLUDING
   CITIZENSHIP.

2. ISSUANCE SERIES A AUSTRIAN PASSPORT, WITH WHICH SUBJ
   SHOULD BE ABLE OBTAIN OWN TOURIST VISA, WOULD ALLOW ENTRY INTO
   GIVEN SAMERICAN COUNTRY BUT SOME KUSARK CONTROL OEVIOUSLY
   NECESSARY TO PREVENT BACKCHECKING IF SURJ INTENDS REMAIN.

PLEASE ADVISE KUBARK CAPABILITIES PREVENT SAMERICAN OFFICIALS
CHECKING AUTHENTICITY SUSJ BACKGROUND EITHER IN GERMANY WITH
AUSTSIA CONSILATE OR DIRECTLY WITH USTRIAN GOVT.

3. WE AVERE SOESTAMERICAN COUNTRIES ISSUE PASSPORTS FOR
   NON CITIZENS, COULD KUBAFK INTERCEDE TO OPTAIN SUCH NON CIT
   PASSPORT AFTER SUPJ HAS ENTERED GIVEN COUNTRY.

END OF MESSAGE

![image]

REPACOUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

ROUTING

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| 1   | 4   |
| 2   | 5   |
| 3   | 6   |

PAGE 2 IN 15516 FRAN 1188

TO INFO CITE

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR AQUATIC USED.

**IF HARVARD DOES NOT HAVE INFO RE SOUTH AMERICA CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS KURIOT WILL PROVIDE IF FRAN REPORTS COUNTRIES OF INTEREST.

S-E-C-R-E-T

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG. Clayton V. Kallander

UNIT: TSD/IB/FS-4

EXT : 3391 1502

DATE: 15 June 1962

TO : FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/TSD 2

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/AF, C/EE 3, S/C 2

![Stamp per CSN-43-43]

TO FRAN INFO LEOP.

RYBAT VIROQUE HARVARD TECHS

CITE DIR 17406 17406

REP DIR 15840 (OUT 91968)

IF HARVARD DOES NOT HAVE INFO RE SOUTH AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS

KURICT WILL PROVIDE IF FRAN REPORTS COUNTRIES OF INTEREST.

END OF MESSAGE

TSD CONSEET: Will reply re South American citizenship requirements by Telex.

C/EE/G/OPS Bill Phelps, by phone WK

C/AF/OPS Paul Springer, by phone WK

![Signature of Sidney Gottlieb]

SIDNEY GOTTLIEB
A CHIEF, TSD

RELEASING OFFICER...

![Stamp DESENSITIZED]

![Signature of Charles J. Ryan]

CHARLES J. RYAN
ASSTC/TSD/AUTH

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No. 101-233477


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

1732
ORIG: William W. Phelps
UNIT: EE/G/Ops
EXT : 7858
DATE: 8 June 1962

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE

ROUTING
1
4
2
5
3
6
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: C/EE 3
INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 23/C/AF 33-43/C 2
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT91968

TO FRAN INFO LEOP
CITE DIR 15840
RYBAT WIROGUE HARVARD TECHS
REF FRAN 0805 (IN 46446)

1. CONCUR PARA 2.

2. RE NEW AUSTRIAN DOC, WILLING AGREE IF THIS BEST
   SIXX SOLUTION, BUT REQUEST EXAMINE QUESTION WHETHER BACK-
   STOPPED FREMDENPASS WOULD NOT SERVE AS VEHICLE FOR EMIGRATION
   FROM FEDREP WHILE AVOIDING PROBLEMS PARA I REF. WILL REPLY
   RE SOUTH AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS BY TELEX WEEK
   OF 11 JUNE.

END OF MESSAGE

AF is resp. Corthis

EE/CCPS
RELEASING OFFICER
AF/OPS (Mr. Springer phone)
TSD (Mr. Boerniger phone)
COORDINATING OFFICERS
Wm Phelps
EE/G/Ops
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET
Copy No. 312133477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

ORIG:
# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
1732
William W. Phelps
UNIT: EE/G/Ops
EXT: 7858
DATE: 8 June 1962

TO : FRANKFURT LEOPOLDVILLE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: C/EE 3
INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/AF 3, S/C 2

TO FRAN INFO LEOP
RYBAT WIROGUE HARVARD TECHS
REF. FRAN 0805 (IN 46446)

1. CONCUR PARA 2.

2. RE NEW AUSTRIAN DOC, WILLING AGREE IF THIS BEST
   SOLUTION, BUT REQUEST EXAMINE QUESTION WHETHER BACK- STOPPED FREMDENPASS-WOULD NOT SERVE AS VEHICLE FOR EMIGRATION FROM FEDREP WHILE AVOIDING PROBLEMS PARA 1 REF. WILL REPLY RE SOUTH AMERICAN CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS BY TELEX WEEK
   OF 11 JUNE.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of AF/OPS, TSD and SECRET approving officers]
AF/OPS (Mr. Springer phone)
TSD (Mr. Boerniger phone)

![signature of Wm Phelps]
Wm Phelps
EE/G/Ops

EE/COPS
RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
SECRET
Copy No.: 3
201-235477
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

```
14-00000
```

# 566

DATE: 5 JUN 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/EE 3

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSO 2, C/AF 3,5/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

![illegible text] (5571)

Boirning TSD

![stamp]

ROUTING

JUN 5 20462 62

ROUTINE

IN 46446/

ANS, by.MP
8 Jun62

DIR INFO LEOP CITE FRAN 0885

RYBAT VIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

1. SUBJECT NOT ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT W GERMAN DOCUMENTATION UNLESS POLITICAL RECOGNITION FOLLOWS. BELIEVE FABRICATION LIFE HISTORY IN ORDER OBTAIN RECOGNITION TOO RISKY IN THIS CASE SINCE SLIGHTEST FLAP COULD. PLACE KUBARK IN EMBARRASSING POSITION VIS A VIS FEDREP AUTHORITIES AND ODIBEX LIAISON.

2. INTEND RETURN AUSTRIAN PASSPORT AND IDENTITY PAPERS AS TEMPORARY MEASURE PERMIT SUBJECT CARRY OUT ASSIGNED TASKS FOR CONGOLESE DEFMIN AND RETURN CONGO IN ORDER FORMALLY ABROGATE CONTRACT WITH GOC. WILL INFORM SUBJECT NO KUBARK EMPLOYMENT AVAILABLE BUT WE WILLING REDOCUMENT HIM WITH AUSTRIAN OR OTHER PASSPORT IN NAME DAVID DE PANASKHET, WHICH HE CONSIDERS HIS TRUE NAME. HE WILL KNOW NEW DOCUMENTATION WILL BE HELD IN ABEYANCE PENDING HIS RETURN FRAN.

3. SUBJECT HA'S STATED DESIRE RESETTLE IN SOUTH AMERICA. UNDERSTAND PASSPORT WOULD PROBABLY BE BACKCHECKED WITH COUNTRY OF ISSUE SHOULD SUBJECT DECIDE REQUEST PERMANENT RESIDENCY OR CITIZENSHIP IN SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY. REQUEST. HEADQUARTERS

SECRET

![stamp]

![illegible text]

201.233477
Copy No.

OCBOOTION DV OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRCHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 133

FRAN 0805

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE IN 46446 PAGE 2

# SECRET

GUIDANCE RE CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS IN VARIOUS SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRIES AND ADVISABILITY OF ISSUING NEW AUSTRIAN PASSPORT.

1. REQUEST REPLY PRIOR COB 11 JUNE.

END OF MESSAGE

# SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 134

566

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET.

DATE: 5 JUN 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: FRANKFURT

ACTION: C/EE 3 per CS:l 43-43

INFO: ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, CDC, C/TSD 2, C/AF 3,3/C 2

ROUTINE

JUN 5 20462 62.

IN 46446

DIR INFO LEOP CITE FRAN 0805

RYBAT VIROGUE HARVARD TECHS

R.B.

1. SUBJECT NOT ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT W GERMAN DOCUMENTATION UNLESS POLITICAL RECOGNITION FOLLOWS. BELIEVE FABRICATION LIFE HISTORY IN ORDER OBTAIN RECOGNITION TOO RISKY IN THIS CASE SINCE SLIGHTEST FLAP COULD PLACE KUBARK IN EMBARRASSING POSITION VIS A VIS FEDREP AUTHORITIES AND ODIBEX LIAISON.

2. INTEND RETURN AUSTRIAN PASSPORT AND IDENTITY PAPERS AS TEMPORARY MEASURE PERMIT SUBJECT CARRY OUT ASSIGNED TASKS FOR CONGOLESE DEFMIN AND RETURN CONGO IN ORDER FORMALLY ABROGATE CONTRACT WITH GOC. WILL INFORM SUBJECT NO KUBAX EMPLOYMENT AVAILABLE BUT WE WILLING REDOCUMENT HIM WITH AUSTRIAN OR OTHER PASSPORT IN NAME DAVID DE PANASKHET, WHICH HE CONSIDERS HIS TRUE NAME. HE WILL KNOW NEW DOCUMENTATION WILL BE HELD IN ABEYANCE PENDING HIS RETURN FRAN.

3. SUBJECT HAS STATED DESIRE RESETTLE IN SOUTH AMERICA. UNDERSTAND PASSPORT WOULD PROBABLY BE BACKCHECKED WITH COUNTRY OF ISSUE SHOULD SUBJECT DECIDE REQUEST PERMANENT RESIDENCY OR CITIZENSHIP IN SOUTH AMERICAN COUNTRY. REQUEST HEADQUARTERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 135

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
FRAN 0805
IN 46446 PAGE 2

GUIDANCE RE CITIZENSHIP REQUIREMENTS IN VARIOUS SOUTH AMERICAN
COUNTRIES AND ADVISABILITY OF ISSUING NEW AUSTRIAN PASSPORT.

4. REQUEST REPLY PRIOR COB 11 JUNE.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)