# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> 14-10000
> 104-10183-10043

## CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: STEPHEN I. MUNG/AVE
INIT: DC/WE/4/X-
XT : 5559
DATE: 3 JUNE-1963

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
SECRET

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SIGNATURE:

FILE NO. 201-267956
ROUTING
4 JUN63 13 26Z

SIG CEN
DEFERRED
X ROUTINE

O : ROME
ROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WE 6
INFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CCS 2, FI, SAS 8, S/C

O ROME INFO CITE DIR 44488

KEYWAY PERUMEN AMWHIP

1. AMWHIP/1 (IDEN A), LONG TIME KUBARK ASSET FOR PERUMEN OPS, WILL
   VISIT ROME 5 TO 15 JUNE TO OPEN JEWELRY STORE IN IDEN B. HAS OFFERED HE OF
   SERVICE TO STA IN ANY WAY POSSIBLE INCLUDING FURNISHING COVER IN NEW STORE.
   THOUGH LEFT PERUMEN EARLY 1961, REMAINS PERSONA GRATA TO REGIME SINCE GAVE
   AID TO CURRENT REGIME DURING PRE-REVOLUTION DAYS AND TOOK NO OVERT OPPOSITION
   STAND. IS CONSIDERED BY CURRENT REGIME AS A POLITICAL BUSINESSMAN AND CAN
   ENTER OFFICIAL INSTALLATIONS MEET WITH PERUMEN DIPLOMATS. FOR EXAMPLE, PLANS
   FOR FERUMEN PASSPORT AT EMBASSY, PARIS, ON CURRENT TRIP.

2. IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IDEN C WILL OPEN JEWELRY STORE ROME. SAYS IDEN
   C FULLY TRUSTWORTHY ANTI-REGIME AND COULD BE MADE WITTING OF ARRANGEMENTS
   MALE ROME IF SO DESIRED. IDEN C WAS WITTING SOURCE OF PEPRIME ODUNIT ATTACHE
   IN PERUMEN PRIOR 1961.

3. AMWHIP/1 IS PARTNER IN NEW YORK OF IDEN D WHICH IS CLOSELY TIED TO INITIAL
   IN E OF MILAN. COULD ALSO OFFER COVER IN IDEN E BUT BELIEVES THIS LESS
   SECURE SINCE HE HAS MORE DIRECT CONTROL OVER ROME JEWELRY STORE.

CS COPY

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE:

SECRET

ORIG:

UNIT :

EXT :

DATE:

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

TO

*   INDEX
*   NO INDEX
*   FILE IN CS FILE NO.

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

SIGNATURE

PAGE TWO

INFO

12-42

ROUTING

1

4

2

5

3

6

DEFERRED

X ROUTINE

CITE DIR

4.  RECOMMEND STA ESTABLISH CONTACT SOONEST DISCUSS VARIOUS OPS PROBLEMS

POSSIBILITIES, INCL COVER FOR PERUMEN OPS SUPPORT ASSET AS PLAINED. IF COVER
FOR SUBJ DIR 38810 STILL UNRESOLVED, STA SHOULD RAISE PROBLEM WITH AMWHIP/1,
REALIZING THOUGH THAT LATTER MAY BE RELUCTANT OFFER COVER IN OWN FIRM TO PERSON
WHO BROKE CLAMOROUSLY WITH REGIME. STA MAY ALSO WISH ASK AMWHIP/1 VISIT OF-
FICIAL PERUMEN INSTALLATIONS ROME FOR MEETINGS ASSESSMENTS TARGET PERSONALITIES.
STA SHOULD FEEL FREE DISCUSS ALL OTHER PERUMEN PROBLEMS DESIRED. IN ALL ABOVE,
STA MUST ABIDE BY AMWEIP/1 JUDGEMENT. NOTE LATTER IS NOT PRINCIPAL AGENT TYPE
C: RECRUITER. HAS BEEN HIGHLY VALUABLE AS WITTING INFORMANT, SPOTTER, OPS
SUPPORT TYPE.

5.  AMTHIP/1 WILL STAY WITH IDEN F. CAN BE REACHED THERE OR PREFERABLY
    THROUGH IDEN B MANAGEMENT. IN MILAN CAN BE REACHED THROUGH IDEN E. OFFICER
    MAKING CONTACT SHOULD IDENTIFY SELF AS FRIEND OF BILL THOMPSON AND REFER TO
    THOMPSON'S TALK WITH AMWHIP/1 OF 31 MAY IN NEW YORK. SHOULD USE ENGLISH IN
    INITIAL PHASE CONTACT. AM-HIP/1's ENGLISH AND ITALIAN ARE FAIR BUT RECOMMEND
    SUBSTANTIVE DISCUSSIONS BE HELD IN AMWHIP NATIVE LANGUAGE.

END OF MESSAGE

SAS/DOB Mr.(Wainright) (in draft)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)