2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO 95-1374342

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE: 1

FRP: 2,

STAFF

ADV: CE/W/MB (1102Z)

ACTION: CE/W/MB (773) INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,
FILE, CE/W, DDO (4/W)

95 1374342 ASP PAGE 001 IN 1374342
TOR: 161102Z AUG 95 MNSK 14144

1610592 AUG 95 STAFF

CITE MINSK 14144 (FALANTZ ACTING)

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT CODEL

SUBJECT: BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES

REF: DIRECTOR 404798 95 1366840

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: FYI OR COMMENT

2. STATION IS FAXING TO HQS A COPY OF BRIEFING PAPER FOR CODEL SHELBY, REVISED IN ACCORD WITH SUGGESTIONS OF REFERENCE. UNLESS ADDITIONAL REVISIONS ARE REQUIRED, THIS IS THE COPY WHICH WE WILL PROVIDE TO CODEL TO READ, BUT NOT TO CARRY AWAY.

3. APPRECIATE SUMMARY INFORMATION REGARDING HISTORICAL CONVERSATION WITH LOCAL SERVICE ABOUT FILES ON *lee harvey oswald.* ACOS BELIEVES HE DID SEE THE CABLE MENTIONED IN REF. AT TIME OF RECEIPT STATION WAS VERY BUSY AND IN ACCORD WITH "READ AND BURN" POLICY A COPY--WAS-NOT RETAINED. A RETRANSMISSION IS NOT NECESSARY ALSO, IT MAY NOT BE NECESSARY FOR HQS TO PURSUE THE MATTER FURTHER, SINCE SUMMARY INFORMATION WILL PROBABLY SUFFICE. ADDITIONALLY, ACOS HAS LEARNED THAT YESTERDAY THE AMBASSADOR SUBMITTED A DIPLOMATIC NOTE TO DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER ANDREI SANIKOV WHICH IS AN OFFICIAL REQUEST FOR THE FILES ON OSWALD. STATION JUDGES BY THIS THAT FBI HAS-CARRIED THE ACTION TO STATE_WITH THIS_RESULT. STATION COMMENT: THERE IS BELIEF HERE THAT THE FILES WERE MADE *AVAILABLE TO THE AUTHOR OF A RECENT BOOK ON THE. *<ASSASSINATION->

4. STATION WILL ADVISE HQS OF IMPRESSIONS OF CODEL SHELBY AT CONCLUSION OF VISIT. THANKS FOR PROMPT ANDS THOUGHTFUL SUPPORT IN PREPARATIONS FOR THIS VISIT

5. FILE: NONE DECL OADR_DRV-HUM-4482


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO 95-1374342
END OF MESSAGE

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE: 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)