# 104-10183-10331 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

RID COPY ADVANCE COPY

SECRET 2315422 CITE [SANTO DOMINGO] 2554 DIRECTOR INFE JMWAVE, [CARACAS] 16-17 8 JUL 67 73441

REFI [SANTO DOMINGO] 2561 (NOT SENT JMWAVE) (IN 73380)*

KAPOK DYVOUR PBRUMEN DESENSITIZED

1. OTHER TOPICS MENTIONED IN DISCUSSIONS BETWEEN CUBANS AND MA-IJA REPS, AND NOT INCLUDED IN REFERENCE DUE OPERATIONAL CONTEXT, WERE:

A. [PICHI MELLA] CASE. CUBANS TOLD DOMINICANS TO REVIEW ALL THE "COMPANEROS" WHO WERE IN CUBA WITH [PICHI] AND TO BE CAREFUL WITH AND "VIGILAR" [MELLA] THEY ADD THAT [MELLA] MUST MOVE AND AVOID MEETING WITH THE "TIFO" ANYMORE. NEXT SENTENCE SAYS, "IMPORTANTE: AJUSTICIAMIENTO DE VICTOR". VICTOR ALSO REFERRED TO AS AGENT OF CIA AND TRAITOR.

B. DOMINICANS ALSO DISCUSS "GRUPO FRANCES" WITH CUBANS. CUBANS SAY THAT THEY BELIEVE GROUP IS COLLABORATING WITH FRENCH AND YANKEES (CIA) BECAUSE OF THE EASE WITH WHICH THEY GET THINGS DONE. CUBANS ADD THAT THESE PEOPLE (GRUPO FRANCES) GOT IN TOUCH WITH MA-IJA THROUGH LUIS GENAO AND FIDELIO VESPRADEL.

C. CUBANS SAY THEY ARE INVESTICATING CONTACT THAT GENAO (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED) MADE A FEW MONTHS AGO IN NEW YORK

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

PAGE 2 SANGO DOMINGO 2564 SECRET SECRET

WITH MEMBERS VR-1JM (WIDOW MINAYA). CUBANS ARE VERY WORRIED
ABOUT PROBLEM OF GENAO AND WHO TO SUBSTITUTE FOR HIM in VR-1JM.
NO INDICATION THAT THIS GENAO IDENTIFIABLE WITH LUIS GENER
ESPAILLAT.

2. FOR DIRECTORS: SUGGEST YOU MAY WISH RELAY REFERENCE TO
   JM WAVE.

3. FOR JM WAVE: REFERENCE WAS LISTING AND DESCRIPTION OF
   DOCUMENTS CONFISCATED FROM DOMINICAN COMMUNIST COURIER FERNANDO
   DE LA ROSA BY VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS.

SECRET

BT
* Summary of ESSENTIAL TIMES AND CATEGORIES OF INFO
  AVAILABLE TO START FROM FERNANDO DE LA ROSA CASE
  AND FROM CONFISCATED PAPERS.

06


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)