# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 USTAS

31 May 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

## 16-3

SUBJECT: Agee Effort Against Cuban Operations at the Mexico City Station

1. Elsie L. SCALETTI recalls that Raymond A. FRADYER, Chief of the Cuban Section, tried to get Agee to discuss the development of contacts with access to the Cuban target in the Olympics. In these discussions it may well be that Agee was told about LIARM-1, a member of the Mexican rifle team, who was a contact of the Station and we were trying to get invited to Cuba.
   (LIARM-1 is no longer a contact of the Station even though he is still with the rifle team.

2. SCALETTI recalls the Cuban Section feeling very frustrated that Agee could provide no leads or assistance to this section in its effort to target against the Cuban teams. She recalls no memoranda prepared by Agee for the Section, no leads given the Section, and he came to discuss the olympics with C/Cuba not more than half a dozen times.

3. As SCALETTI recalls, it is unlikely that Agee knew any thing about the operations being run against the Cuban target than that which he might have picked up at Headquarters or known about the Station operations in general -- such as audio, surveillance, photo surveillance, etc.

4. SCALETTI had Agee over to her home once for dinner; there were no other guests. Agee had SCALETTI, her husband, and Laura J. UTSTINE (on TDY) to his apartment once for dinner. The conversation was always light. The only significant thing about Agee's plans which arose was his discussion about buying used drycleaning equipment in the United States, bringing it to Mexico and setting up a drycleaning plant. This was brought up as something for the future and just an idea Phil was toying with.

5. SCALETTI ran into Agee by chance on the side street by the Embassy one day after the arrival of John A. PROBERT. Agee said he understood PROBERT had arrived as COS, and he would like to say hello. I suggested he call PROBERT. I immediately informed PROBERT of my chance encounter with Agee, and informed PROBERT that Agee had resigned under somewhat of a cloud and suggested he get briefed himself on Agee's assignment in Mexico.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

6. Agee knew that SCALETTI was in Mexico (under tourist cover,) even though SCALETTI was working regular hours in the Embassy. He probably also knew that there were other Station employees also utilizing tourist cover.

![signature of Elsie I. SCALETTI]
Elsie I. SCALETTI

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)