# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REPORT COVER SOLEL

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

HEAVE

UFG

23 January 1963

Source:

Faras. 1-4:
former Panamanian Charge in Habana, presently in Miami
who was approached by
of the Inter-American
Affairs Commission,
works with
employee; and it is said that the
have been
quite successful in shipping medicines to Cuba including ship-
ments to prisoners in Cuban Jails.

Faras. 5 and 6:
on or about 20 September
obtained the information because it was addressed to
of Miami, who is related to
who is a very good friend of

Also attached under cover of this report are the following
items of information of potential interest:

a. Bulletin No. 2 of the National Medical Association
in the Frente Interna Anti-Communist from
It is not known how
received this information.
It is believed that this information dates to about
June or July 1962.

Attachments: H/W
Misc. Medical Info,

1 - Headquarters XXXXX & atts. h'w
1 - 00/C
1 - File

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

C-O-11-I-I-U-T-I-A-I-
CONTROLLED DISSEN

- 2 -

b. Copy of a letter signed by Cmdte Rene YELMO for the Executive Council of the National Institute of Surgery of the Ministry of Health, dated 6 June addressed to Regino BOTTI, President of JUCEPLAN requesting an approval for the expenditure of $20,000.00 for the purchase of raw color film from Czechoslovakia. This film to be used at the national Universities and in Cuban scientific, institutions. Received from about mid-July from an unidentified correspondent.

c. debriefing of Antonio TOLEDO Zamora (A12 829 119) who was in the third year at the Medical School, University of Habana. Report dated 21 August.

d. Translation of a commentary by Virgilio FEAJO Nunez, leader of the Cuban medical class Habana on 18 August 1962. It was submitted in translated form by on 26 August. Though this appears to be an interesting commentary there does not appear to be anything new or startling in the information.

e. Listing of medical and professional personnel in Habana which was received through the diplomatic pouch. Pouch turned over to for duplication, provided translations. Envelope had return address Colegio Teresiano Calle 17 No. 1051 Vedado, Habana. Addressed to Eduardo ROCO, PO Box 1495. No WAVE traces on ROCO. Source of this information is not known. It is believed that the names under this attachment should be indexed for the Field. No indication of meaning of A, B, and B, but believe they stand for A- Anti-Communist, B-Neutral and C- Communist.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)