# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Manuel Aragpi.
CA/95
5852
5 December 1963

TO : PARIS/LCPIPIT
I.FO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: CA 2, CA/PFSC 2.

PALP

DIDORIC HBEPITOME

REF: MONT 8437 (IN 72721) RELATED MEL

1. FOR MEXI: HQS ANS TO REF SAID: A) AGREE THAT CASTRILLA CO.NOLLED WHIU U ACCEPTABLE AS HOST FOR SOSEC EVENT B) INTENT OF OCT 11 (COSEC LETTER WAS TO OPEN POSSIBILITY MOVING EVENT IN EW PUT NOT YET DETERMED SITE, C) COSEC LETTER WAS AUTHORIZED BY SEPT SUPERVISION COMMITEE (SUP COM) MEETING WHICH BLAMED PEUU FOR FAILURE HOLD EVENT AND TOLD COSEC TO SEEK ANOTHER SITE.

2. FOR PALP: FOLL SUMMARIZES HQS UNDERSTANDING LATIN AMERICAS STUDY SEMINAR (LASS) TACTICS DISCUSSED WITH KOROHING (IIER: A). FIRST STEP REGARDLESS WHETHER LASS ULTIMATELY HELD IS SEIZING INITIATIVE ON SITE IN ORDER HONOR SUP COM DECISION AND OFFERT POSSIERE INVIDATION FROM UNFRIENDLY SITE. THIS NOW ESPECIALLY DIPORTANT IN VIEW REF. SEE CIERKS MOST DESIRABLE HOST FROM CONTROL AND FLEXIBILITY. IN THIS RESPECT KORONELOS AND AVILA (IIER: A) BEFORE HIS DEPARTURE EUR. BRIEF HIM ON LASS STRATEGY AND GAIN HIS SUPPORT IF POSSIBLE CHE OFFER INVITATION ACT AS HOST

3. ASSUME MEXI INVITE LASS CAN BE HELD IF FOLL CONDITIONS SATISFIED

A) PARTICIPATION MINIMUM 7 DEMOCRATIC UNIONS WITH CLEAR EVIDENCE ALL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

## PAGE TWO

B) ENOUGH COORDINATION WITH UFUCH TO AVOID THEIR ACTIVE HOSTILITY LASS
AND COSEC AND PREVENT FORCING THEM INTO CLOSER ALLIANCE WITH EXTREMISTS ON OTHER
WE ISSUES.

C) LIKELIHOOD THAT LASS CAN BE USEFUL FORUN EXPRESSION DEMOCRATIC VIEWS
ON SOCIAL ECONOMIC QUESTIONS AND DEVELOPMENT GROLEUMORK NECESSARY POR ISC TACTICS.

D) EVENT DOES NOT CONFLICT WITH MEXI STATION OPERATIONS.

4. LASS SHOULD NOT BE HELD IF ALL OR ANY PARA 3 CONDITIONS FAIL PERDAIN AND
   ALSO IP:

A) EARLY EVIDENCE WELL ORGANIZED EXTREMIST COUNTERACTION (POSSIBILITY
OF WHICH RAISED BY VEHENENCE FEUU RESPONSE COSEC LETTER REPORTED IN REF.)

B) PAIP HQS JUDGEMENT THAT TIME EFFORT NEEDED SUSTATY BOLDUM EVENT
BECOMES COUNTERPRODUCTIVE DIVKKSION RESOURCES FROM OTHER ELEMENTS KEEPITOME PROGRAM,
DEVELOPMENT OF ISC TACTICS, OR HARMPUL KURARK LAYC COUNTERACTION.

5. IF PARA 4 SITUATION UNFOLDS CNE COULD WITHDRAW INVITATION ON GROUNDS
   INADEQUATE PARTICIPATION (ASSUMING BOYCOTT) OR CONTINUE AS HOST BUT CITE SUNDRY
   TECHNICAL REASONS REQUCHE POSTPONEMENT LASS.

6. FOR PALP: PARA ONE BRIEFING (CORDERO) WHICH CONTINENTAL BEIPT
   MET COMMENTS, SHOULD CARDIO ONLINE PARA 2-5 THIOKING SO THAT CHE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PACK

F7036

AGREEMENT ISSUE INVITATION ACT AS HOST INCLUDED, AWARENESS OF AND COMMITMENT TO ALL CONTINGENCIES. MOREOVER, CORDERO SHOULD BE ASSURED CONTINUING COSEC SUPPORT LITERACY SEMINAR AND DESIRE HOLDING THAT EVENT AT EARLIEST DATE CONVENIENT TO US.

7. FOR MEXI: HQS BELIEVES IT UNLIKELY THAT PARA 3 CONDITIONS CAN BE MET ALTHOUGH POSSIBLE THAT THIS EVENT COULD BE USEFUL. HQS DISPATCH WILL INCLUDE BACKGROUND AND DETAILS LASS STRATEGY. SINCE CORDERO MAY LEAVE EUR SHORTLY REQUEST COMMENTS TO PALP ASAP.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/CA Scott Holloway

WH/3/MEX BER (in draft)

![signature of releasing officer]

![stamp indicating document is secret]
RELEASE OFFICER

EDUARD C. BASLE
AUD/OFFICERING


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)