14-00000
104-10169-10269
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![RETURN CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]

SECRET

DEC 23 22322 60 DUQUE

C/BELL 13 (HR CROLLER, WH DIV NOTIFIED 1800 23 CEC)
DOP, COP, ADCP/A, WH. 3, S/C 2

PRIORITY
IN 21843

FRITY WAVE INFO PRITY DIR CITE HAVA 7268

JMZIP AVT

1. ON 23 DEC ROBERT M. GEDDES (WHO WORKS WITH AMPAN-22) CONTACTED

CO AFTER FAILURE TO MEET RALPH DIAZ HANSCOM AND ASKED CO DELIVER

SPECIAL AIRDROP MAP TO MIAMI FOR CLARENCE".

2. GEDDES EXPLAINED THAT HE HAD TALKED WITH "CLARENCE", IN

MIAMI AND WAS TOLD THAT EARLIER DROP MAP BROUGHT BY VILLALON

S NOT SUITABLE. NEW MAP IS IN INDIA INK PREPARED BY ENGINEER

CRESPO WHO HEAD PUBLIC WORKS DEPT IN CIENFUEGOS. CRESPO PASSED

MAP TO MARIO BOLAND WHO GAVE TO GEDDES GEDDE SAID, AIR DROP

SPECIAL FOR LIMAS, RAMIREZ, MONTIEL. AND PORTION FOR DUQUE.

3 GEDDES SAID PRELIMINARY DROP SIGNALS WOULD CONSIST ONE RED LIGHT,

DONE WHITE LIGHT, ONE RAD LIGHT ABOUT IS FT

DISTANCE APART, CLOCKWISE MOVEMENT OF LIGHTS INDICATE PREPARED

TO RECEIVE. GROUP REQUESTING ARMS AND AMMUNITION FOR 423 MEN

PLUS 100 PISTOLS. ALSO EXTRA ANMO FOR THOSE ALREADY IN, PLACE.

3. MAP BEING SENT WAVE DY COURIER ARRIVING, 24 DEC.

4. GEDDES SAID THAT HE WOULD CONTACT HECTOR FEBLES (FR 3-1982)

DR ARRIVAL SINCE FEBLES HAD DIRECT CONTACT WITH "CLARENCE".

FILED 23/17507

END OF MESSAGE

![Angulo Cruz callo a security num JAVA 7286 127 Dec. fres]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITIO..


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)