# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
MHFNO: 94-8939218 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: STAFF

ACTION: NR/PRONUCL (731) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/LA, CIC/NR, LA/PROLIF, LIMITO,
MDSX, NR/CEDEF, NR/CEDOT, NR/EX, NR/PGO, NR/PROCBW, NRDORECORD, ODPD, FILE,
C/LA, CE/CPG, CIC/EA, DC/LA, EA/CONA, EA/CORR (7/W)

94 8939218 ASR PAGE 001 IN 8939218
TOR: 271542Z DEC 94 BONR 26500

SECRET 271531Z DEC 94 STAFF

CITE NR/BOSTON 26500

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT NR/PRONUCL INFO CE/CPG, NR/CEDEF, NR/PROCBW,
LA/PROLIF, NR/CEDOT, CIC/EA, CIC/NR, EA/CORR, EA/CONA

SLUGS: WNINTEL MXWINDFALL PROFFERCO

SUBJECT: CONTACT REPORT - MXWINDFALL/1 (201-1224541)

REF: A. NR/BOSTON 26498 94 8939086
B. SAO PAULO 58043 94 8581302

TEXT:

1. A. DATE(S) OF MEETING: 30 NOV 94
   B. TIME(S) OF MEETING: 1600 TO 2000 HOURS
   C. PLACE(S) OF MEETING: MXWINDFALL/1 (W/1'S) HOME AND
   THEN DINNER AT THE OCEAN VIEW CHINESE RESTAURANT, 140 POINT
   JUDITH ROAD, MARINER SQUARE, NARRAGANSETT, RHODE ISLAND 02882
   (401) 783-9070.
   D. C/O AND OTHER PARTICIPANTS: CHRISTOPHER B. JAGGER
   (IN ZTH ALIAS) AND W/1
   E. OPS ALIASES USED: ZACHARY T. HUNTINGTON
   F. NEXT MEETING: TO BE SCHEDULED AFTER 03 JANUARY 1994

2. A. MEETING ARRANGEMENTS: C/O WILL CALL W/1 AND ARRANGE
   THE TIME OF THE MEETING. THE MEETING WILL BE HELD AT W/1'S HOME.
   B. INTELLIGENCE: NONE THIS MEETING.
   C. OPERATIONAL: SEE REF A FOR INFORMATION ON CHINESE
   CONTACT ((LI)) MEI. C/O DISCUSSED VARIOUS OPPORTUNITIES FOR W/1
   TO TRAVEL TO POTENTIALLY THREE LOCATIONS THIS SUMMER PENDING
   AUTHORIZATION. THE THREE LOCATIONS WOULD BE RUSSIA, CHINA AND
   BRAZIL. IN ACCORDANCE WITH REF B, W/1 WILL DO WHAT IS REQUIRED
   TO BE IN A POSITION TO ATTEND THE NUCLEAR CONFERENCE IN BRAZIL.
   C/O EXPLAINED TO W/1 WHAT HE CAN AND CAN NOT DO IN PREPARATION
   FOR BRAZIL AND WHAT COMMITMENTS HE CAN MAKE. W/1 GAVE C/O
   COPIES OF E-MAIL CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN W/1 AND TAMARA
   ((KHODZHER)) DISCUSSING THE INTERNATIONAL AEROSOL SYMPOSIUM THAT
   WILL TAKE PLACE IN JULY 1995 IN MOSCOW AND ABOUT A VISIT TO
   IRKUTSK. KHODZHER HAS REQUESTED THAT W/1 ATTEND BOTH. IN
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 94-8939218
SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 2

ADDITION W/1 HAS RECEIVED E-MAIL FROM NIKOLAY ((BELOV)) ALSO
REQUESTING THAT W/1 ATTEND THE SYMPOSIUM IN MOSCOW AND PRESENT A
PAPER. C/O WILL REQUEST AUTHORIZATION AND FUNDING IN SEPARATE
CABLES FOR RUSSIA AND CHINA TRIPS.

D. ADMINISTRATIVE: C/O PAID FOR DINNER AT THE
RESTAURANT. C/O SUBMITTED A REQUEST FOR MONTHLY PAYMENT OF W/1
AS USUAL ON OR ABOUT THE FIRST OF THE MONTH. W/1 SHOWED C/O HIS
COMPUTER AND IS SHOWING INTEREST IN SEVERAL SOFTWARE PACKAGES.
C/O WILL PROBABLY PURCHASE SOMETHING FOR W/1'S COMPUTER AS AN
OPS GIFT.

Ε. PLANS: C/O WILL GATHER AND SUBMIT PLANS FOR W/1 TO
ATTEND MEETINGS IN RUSSIA AND CHINA IN SUMMER 1995 FOR
AUTHORIZATION AND FUNDING APPROVAL. W/1 HAS MADE IMPRESSIVE
CONTACTS IN THE AEROSOL INDUSTRY IN RUSSIA, CHINA AND BRAZIL.
HE HAS DEVELOPED THESE CONTACTS OVER THE LAST FEW YEARS AND
SHOULD BE ABLE TO OBTAIN GOOD FI AGAINST CBW TARGETS AND NUCLEAR
PROLIFERATION TARGETS. C/O WILL CONTINUE TO DISCUSS W/1'S
CONTACTS WITH LI MEI (SEE REF A).

F. SECURITY/CI: C/O NOTED NOTHING UNUSUAL DURING SDR'S
TO AND FROM MEETING SITE. W/1 HAS VOWED TO KEEP HIS
RELATIONSHIP WITH NWBOLTON A SECRET FROM LI REGARDLESS OF THE
OUTCOME. C/O HAS PREPARED SEPARATE CORRESPONDENCE ON LI AND
INFORMATION OF A POTENTIAL CI/SECURITY NATURE REGARDING HER AND
HER INSTITUTE.

3. THE MEETING WENT VERY WELL AND AFTER THE OPERATIONAL
   DISCUSSIONS W/1 SHOWED C/O HIS VERY IMPRESSIVE STEREO SYSTEM AND
   *TALKED ABOUT HIS AVOCATION/HOBBY, THEASSASSINATION>OF FORMER
   *PRESIDENTF.W/1 IS SPENDING A CONSIDERABLE
   AMOUNT OF TIME, MONEY AND EFFORT TO PROVE HIS THEORY OF HOW THE
   *LATE PRESIDENTF.WAS KILLED BY ONLY ONE PERSON
   *FIRING FROM ONE DIRECTION<(LEE HARVEY OSWALD).> W/1 RECENTLY
   ATTENDED A CONFERENCE IN CHICAGO DEDICATED TO THIS SUBJECT. W/1
   HAS PURCHASED DOZENS OF CASSETTE TAPES OF PAST CONFERENCES ON
   THE SUBJECT, LASER DISC MOVIES AND VIDEO TAPES ALL IN AN EFFORT
   TO PROVE HIS THEORIES. W/1 APPEARS TO C/O TO BE VERY LONELY AND
   IS USING THIS HOBBY AND MUSIC TO FILL HIS VOID. W/1'S DAUGHTER
   BEGAN COLLEGE IN MICHIGAN THIS YEAR AND ALONG WITH THE LOSS OF
   HIS WIFE A COUPLE OF YEARS AGO, W/1 IS STAYING BUSY WITH WORK
   AND HOBBIES. C/O COULD ALSO TIE IN W/1'S INTEREST IN LI MEI ΤΟ
   THIS LONELINESS. THIS ISSUE HAS BEEN DOCUMENTED IN SEPARATE
   CORRESPONDENCE ALONG WITH STATION CONCERNS.

4. FILE: 201-1224541. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.
   END OF MESSAGE
   SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)