# RESTRICTED HANDLING

ORIG: JLong:PG:JHms
UNIT: CI/SO
EXT:: 1045
DATE: 14 March 1973

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy ______ of ______

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

ESPS ESXB

SECRET
23915-4

TO PARIS (EYES ONLY DEMOLAT) 5 20 01 MAR 73

(BERN) (EYES ONLY BACHMAN) 960 отт 12-27

INFO: (ALGIERS) (EYES ONLY BURCHENAL)
MHCURB MHCHAOS

CITE HEADQUARTERS 3925

1. FROM (NICERTAIN/5) AT 10 MAR 73 PARIS MTG CURIEL

APPARATUS DIRECTION COMMITTEE HENRI CURIEL ANNOUNCED THAT:

A. APPARATUS PARTICIPATING IN SUPPORT OF SIX AMERICAN BLACK MILITANTS/HIJACKERS WHO RECENTLY LIVING ALGERIA.

B. CURIEL SAID THREE OF THEM (TWO MEN AND ONE WOMAN) NOW FRANCE; THREE (TWO WOMEN AND ONE MAN) NOW SWITZERLAND. THOSE IN SWITZERLAND LIVING IN "VERY PRECARIOUS" CLANDESTINE STATUS AND SHOULD BE REMOVED ASAP.

C. CURIEL SAID ENTIRE GROUP DETERMINED RETURN CLANDESTINELY TO U.S. AND CONTINUE REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITY. GROUP CONVINCED THAT BEFORE LEAVING- EUROPE THEY SHOULD ACCEPT POLITICAL AND IDEOLOGICAL TRAINING.

*ADDED BY!
SIG CEN!

COORDINATING OFFICERS

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 012682

SECRET

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

DUP OF 7118


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(CLASSIFICATION)
SECRET

CITE HEADQUARTERS 3925

PAGE TWO

2. ACCORDING TO ANOTHER SENSITIVE SOURCE, HIJACKERS IN ALGIERS REQUESTED IN MID-FEBRUARY EIGHT TITRE DE VOYAGE DOCUMENTS FOR PERSONS LISTED BELOW AND ELDRIDGE CLEAVER (ALTHOUGH HE REPORTED TO HAVE LEFT ALGIERS EARLY FEB).
   SOURCE BELIEVED ALGERIAN GOVT WOULD PROVIDE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS. NO INFO AVAILABLE THEIR DESTINATION OR ACTUAL DEPARTURE.

3. FOLLOWING ARE HIJACKERS WHO WERE BELIEVED IN ALGIERS AS OF MID-FEBRUARY. ABOVE SIX MAY BE FROM THIS GROUP.

A. WILLIAM HOLDER (201-902920) AKA LINTON CHARLES WHITE.

B. CATHERINE MARIE KERKOW, COMMON-LAW WIFE OF HOLDER.

C. GEORGE BROWN (201-906614) AKA HAROLD SINGLETON.

D. GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT (201-906612) AKA LARRY DARNELL BURGESS.

E. JOYCE TILLERSON BURGESS (201-906616) WIFE OF GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000
RESTRICTED HANDLING
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
CITE HEADQUARTERS 3925
SECRET
TO PAGE THREE
F. MELVIN MC NAIR (201-906613).
G. JEAN CAROL ALLEN MC NAI R. (201-906426)
WIFE OF MELVIN.

4. SPECULATE HIJACKERS LEFT ALGIERS WITH TRUE NAME TITRE DE VOYAGE DOCUMENTS, BUT MAY BE USING OTHER DOCUMENTATION FOR RESIDENCE PURPOSES. POSSIBILITY THAT HOLDER, WHO SPOKESMAN FOR GROUP AND HEAD OF INTERNATIONAL SECTION OF BPP IN ALGIERS, MAY HAVE REMAINED ALGIERS.

5. NO OBJECTION INFORMING LIAISON THAT ALL OR SOME PARA 3 ABOVE MAY HAVE LEFT ALGIERS AND THAT THERE RUMORS THAT THEY MAY BE IN FRANCE AND SWITZERLAND. PLEASE INFORM LNERGO REP OF SUBSTANCE PARAS ONE AND TWO ABOVE AND COORDINATE WITH HIM TO AVOID DUPLICATION WITH LIAISON.

6. IN RESPONSE LNERGO REQUIREMENT, REQUEST ANY INFO RE WHEREABOUTS HIJACKERS INCLUDING ACTIVITIES/LOCATION/

COORDINATING OFFICERS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

14-00000
2. DO NOT EXCEED 69 TYPEWRIT CHARACTERS PER, LINE, INCLUDING SPACE.
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT::
DATE:

# RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy of

SECRET

(CLASSIFICATION) (DATE AND TIME FILED)

# SECRET CITE HEADQUARTERS 3925

TO PAGE FOUR

TRAVEL. PLEASE SEE HQS-3383 (BERN) ONLY) AND HQS-3323 (PARIS) ONLY) FOR RELATED INFO. E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.

(15-4)

END OF MESSAGE

C/E/AS

C/E/F

C/EUR

![signature of Jason Horn]

DC/CI/SO Jason Horn COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET E-2, IMPDET CL. BY:

THIS FORM FOR USE BY AUTHORIZED RESTRICTED HANDLING MESSAGE USERS ONLY!

DRM
D-72 3205 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS (20-44)

31PN


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)