# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INFO
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT
TYPIC
Letter From Fletcher M. KNIGHT to Widow of Peter Di GERVENO

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: For Your Information

Forwarded under separate cover attachment is a copy of a
letter from Fletcher M. KNIGHT to the widow of Peter Di
GERVENO for your information.

Attachment:
Letter u/s/c

Distribution:
3-COS, JMWAVE w/att u/s/c

Ellen F. MARGANY


CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGS-10515

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

201-274049
DATE
6 MAY 1968
HQS FILE NUMBER
201-274049

1 May 1968

Distribution:
1-RID
1-WH/REG/C
1-WH/COG/OPS
1-Originator

| OFFICE        | OFFICER          | ORIGINATING       |
| ------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
| WH/COG/OPS    | Nancye Grafz:jaf |                   |
| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE             | OFFICERS NAME     |
| C/WH/COG/OPS  |                  | Arthur T. Kaan    |
| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE             | RELEASING         |
| C/WH COG      |                  | David A. PHILLIPS |

DISPATCH

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

15 April 1953

Mrs. Paula R. Sodriguez
9351 S. W. 175th Street
Miami, Florida 33157

Dear Mrs. Rodriguezt

I was deeply moved by your recent letter in which you so eloquently oxprossed appreciation for help the Agency provided you.

I an most grateful to you for sharing with me your thoughts about your husband's life and his dedication to this Agency. It is very con- forting for no to know that we have been a source of strength in your time of corros.

If we can do of help as time goes on, please to co dad es to lot us know.

Sincoroly,

Us% Richard Helms

Richard Helns

PERSONAL

RHelms/ecd 15/4/68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET 151839Z CITE CARACAS 8292

DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE

AKULE CIELBOW

REFS A. HVCW-7746 (NOT SENT JMWAVE)

B. HVCA-14933 (NOT SENT JMJAVE)

1.  REQUEST HQS CONSIDER NOT CANCELLING PROJECT CIELBOW. REF B

POUCHED 14 NOVEMBER CONTAINS COVER RECOMMENDATIONS AND REQUEST THAT HAS
SKEEK A REPLACEMENT FOR DIGERVENO, WHOSE DEATH REPORTED BY BANASIAK ON
RETURN FROM JMWAVE.

2. HUNKELER AND COS MET NIGHT 14 NOVEMBER TO DISCUSS BUSINESS.
   DEVELOPMENTS SUBSEQUENT TO DRAFT ING OF REF B. HUNKELER BELIEVES IF
   SPANISH SPEAKING OFFICER WITH BUSINESS EXPERIENCE CAN BE OBTAINED
   THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM IN REPLACING DIGERVENO IN PROPOSED COVER
   MECHANISM. HUNKELER REPORTS GOOD PROGRESS MADE IN OBTAINING OUTLETS
   FOR HIS LINES OF MERCHANDISE. AT COS REQUEST HE WILL PREPARE REPORT
   FOR HQS AND STATION ON THIS PROGRESS UPON HIS RETURN JMWAFE.

3. JMWAVE: PEQUEST STATION EXPRESS COS SYMPATHY TO WIFE OF
   DIGERVENO, WHOSE DEATH BOTH PERSONAL AND OFFICIAL LOSS.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: KAPOK SECRET

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Caracas

SUBJECT: Cover for Peter J. Di Gerveno

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

1. The cover for Peter J. Di Gerveno was discussed by Robert S. Hunkeler, Chester B. Dagnillo and the undersigned on 7 and 9 November 1967. The purpose of the conversations was to determine the most suitable cover to be used under the broad umbrella offered by Hunkeler's various enterprises.

2. The following conclusions were reached:

a. That Di Gerveno will come to Caracas as the representative for some of Hunkeler's sales lines. Specifically he will be the representative for IDENTITY-1, which is Hunkeler's marketing firm.

b. In addition to representing IDENTITY-1, generally, he will specifically be IDENTITY-1's sales agent for IDENTITY-2; IDENTITY-3; and IDENTITY-4 and possibly for IDENTITY-5.

3. IDENTITY-2 is the manufacturer of a wide variety of industrial epoxy products used in the construction industry and as anti-corrosive coatings required by most petroleum companies in Venezuela. Hunkeler has conducted talks with IDENTITY-6, a large local holding company engaged in a broad variety of business enterprises. IDENTITY-6 is interested in marketing the IDENTITY-2 line. As sales agent for IDENTITY-1, Di Gerveno would also serve as a technical advisor to IDENTITY-6, and would not interfere with IDENTITY-6's marketing activities. Under these circumstances Di Gerveno would enjoy a degree of immediate sponsorship by an important local firm which should assist in the rapid solidification of his status cover.

ATTACHMENT: Under Separate Cover

1. Identity List

DISTRIBUTION: 2-C/WHD w/att u/s/c

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HVCA - 14933

DATE: 13 November 1967

CLASSIFICATION: KAPOK SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## KAPOK SECRET   HVCA - 14933   Page 2

4. IDENTITY-3 is a line of liquid fertilizer in which IDENTITY-6 is also interested. However, since the local fertilizer industry enjoys protection in the form of import licensing restrictions, it will take from one to two years of negotiation to determine whether the GOV will permit the importation of this line. Di Gerveno would, in conjunction with IDENTITY-6, represent IDENTITY-1 in the negotiations to obtain such permission. Again, this role would provide a degree of sponsorship by IDENTITY-6 and would enable Di Gerveno to at least meet significant government officials. While his operational objectives do not involve the GOV as a target, he could provide assessment and other operational data useful against this target.

5. IDENTITY-4 produces a line of concrete block manufacturing machinery and accessories. There little doubt that as capital equipment, these can be imported into Venezuela--but the number of prospective buyers is limited. Such a line would not of itself support Di Gerveno's cover, but would be a satisfactory supplement there to which would be useful in explaining the fact that he will not devote his full time to any one activity--and to account for at least that portion of his income which could not be justified on the basis of his work on behalf of IDENTITY-2 and -3.

6. IDENTITY-5 produces wrought iron for the utility industry. IDENTITY-1 is considering accepting representation for IDENTITY-5 on a hemisphere wide basis. If this line is accented, and Di Gerveno represents it locally, it will also help to enhance his status and to account for what would normally be an unusual work pattern.

7. We do not wish at this point to get into a detailed discussion of financial arrangements. If, as we hope, Di Gerveno does make some sales, commissions will be payable to him. If under existing regulations he could keep at least a proportion of these, we would favor it as an incentive to work at his cover. If not, we have confidence that he is a weil enough disciplined professional, to work at it in any event.

8. We would expect that the operational duties we have planned for Di Gerveno will take about 20 hours a week. This would involve meetings with the inside case officer; meetings with the agents; preparation of contact reports, drafts of cables, intei reports and dispatches, plus some time to think about his operations.

9. We would expect Di Gerveno to spend the balance of his work week actually performing cover duties. Fis pattern cannot be neatly defined as four hours for cover and four hours daily for operations. llis daily pattern will vary widely and he must retain flexibility in order to be available when needed for operational duties. Nevertheless, to reiterate, he will have time for cover work and will be expected to do it.

10. Under these circumstances, we desire that he he thoroughly trained in his cover duties and that he have a thorough knowledge of the products he is to sell. If it takes 6 months to train --we expect the 6 months to be used. As part of the training, and to eren the deer for his PCS arrival, when he has completed cover training with IDENTITY-1 through 4 (or 5), he and Hunkeler should visit Caracas together. Di Gerveno can be introducted by liunkeler to his comrercial contacts, they can seek office space, and, generally, lay the groundworl. for Di Gerveno's PCS arrival shortly after the exploratory trip.

11. Please keep us advised on action taken, and precress on this proposal.

12. Just before the release of this dispatch we have learned of Subject's death. This is a cause for real regret--but we would like to ask Headquarters to retain this cover proposal and to seek a possible substitute for Di Gerveno who will have not only good knowledge of the Spanish language, but sufficient commercial background to fit into the proposed cover.

Stefan. Labano


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH KAPOK SECRET SEPARATE COVER
ATTACHMENT NO. 1 TO
BVCA - 14933

IDENTITY-1 - NALAD Corporation

IDENTITY-2 - Eband Epoxies, Inc.

IDENTITY-3 - NA-CHURS Plant Food, Inc.

IDENTITY-4 - J W Appley & Sen, Inc.

IDENTITY-5 - A M Byers Co; subsidiary of General Tire
and Rubber

IDENTITY-6 - Boulton Bros

DISTRIBUTION:
2-C/NHD

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

#

DATE: 27 October 1967

CLASSIFICATION:

SECRET

TO: DO CASE/NEW YORK INFO: JMWAVE, CARACAS

AKULE AMCLOCK

REFS: A. JMWAVE 9863 (IN 77992)*
B. CARACAS 8124 (IN 78860)**
C. DIRECTOR 44104 (NOT SENT CARACAS)***

1. REQUEST DIGERVENO TDY HQS ONE DAY DURING WEEK 30 OCT TO DISCUSS FUTURE AMCLOCK OP AND TIMING DIGERVENO PCS CARACAS:

2. TO ASSIST IN FUTURE PLANNING AMCLOCK OPERATION, WOULD APPRECIATE DIGERVENO BEING PREPARED DISCUSS AMCLOCK'S REACTION TO PARAGRAPH TWO REF C DURING HQS TDY.

3. PLEASE ADVISE ETA. END OF MESSAGE

WH/CCG COMMENTS: *Ref A requested a reading on the status of the plans and timing of DIGERVENO'S proposed PCS transfer to Caracas.

**Ref B suggested Hqs and JMWAVE set a date for the release of DIGERVENO from his PBRUMEN duties so he can thereafter spend full time preparing for his Caracas assignment. Ref B also says DIGERVENO'S ETA in Caracas is not critical, and the Caracas Station prefers every effort be made to insure a viable long term cover to trying to meet an arbitrary date for his arrival in Caracas.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET PAGE TWO CITE DIRECTOR 48243

***Para 2 of Ref C requests DIGERVENO to ask AXCLOCK-1 if he (CLOCK-1) could and would be willing to meet and maintain periodic contact with a foreign diplomat in Havana as a means of maintaining communications contact with WOFIRM.

C/WH/COG

WH/COG/NO

C/WH/3/NS!

DO/1/22

William V. Broe

C/WHD

C/20/1/32

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

REPRODUCTN PROHIBITED

ACTION

RID COPY

INFO FILE, VR C/WIN/OG-5, D/OP, C/CCS.3, C/CSS,C/Do.14,c/spser

SECRET 241842Z CITE CARACAS 8124

DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE DO BASE NEW YORK

RYBAT AKULE PERS

REF JMWAVE 9868(IN799.3)

1.  CARACAS HOPED HAVE DIGERVENO ON DUTY BY ABOUT I JAN 68 SINCE THIS WOULD HAVE PROVIDED SUFFICIENT TIME FOR COVER TRAINING AND TIMING WOULD HAVE BEEN GOOD FOR SCHOOL TRANSFERS OF HIS CHILDREN.

2.  WHILE WOULD STILL LIKE TO ADHERE TO TIME TABLE ORIGINALLY ENVISAGED, BELIEVED IT IMPORTANT THAT AS MUCH TIME AS NECESSARY BE SPENT ON COVER TRAINING TO INSURE THAT THIS PHASE OF OP IS SUCCESSFUL.

3.  SUGGEST HQS AND JMWAVE SET A DATE FOR RELEASE OF DIGERVENO FROM PBRUMEN DUTIES SO THAT HE CAN THEREAFTER SPEND FULL TIME PREPARING FOR CARACAS ASSIGNMENT. REALIZE IMPORTANCE AMCLOCK 1 OP AND IF DIGERVENO PRESENCE CONTINUES BE ESSENT I AL TO THAT OP, SUGGEST PREPARATIONS BE MADE RELEASE DIGER VENO FROM PBRUMEN DUTIES ABOUT I JAN; THAT TRAINING BE CONDUCTED WITH DUE DELIBERATION TO INSURE THOROUGHNESS; AND THAT CONSIDERATION BE

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

PAGE 2 CARACAS 8124 SECRET
GIVEN HAVING DIGERVENO LEAVE FAMILY JMWAVE
UNTIL END SCHOOL SEMESTER JUNE 68.

4. IN SUM, DIGERVENO ETA NOT CRITICAL
   AND STATION PREFERS EVERY EFFORT BE MADE
   INSURE VIABLE LONG TERM COVER TO TRYING MEET
   AN ARBITRARY DATE FOR HIS ARRIVAL.
   SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

3 October 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Staff/Non-Official

SUBJECT : Non-Official Cover Request for Peter J. DI GERVINO (p)

1. Approval for non-official cover for Peter J. DI SERVINO (p) (former AMIRE-1) is requested. This Career Agent has been employed under the same pseudonym since July 1961. During the period June 1960 through July 1961, he carried the cryptonym AMIRE-1. Central Cover Staff has not been requested to develop non-official cover for this agent before.

A. General Information

2. Peter J. DI GERVENO (p) is a Career Agent in the JMWAVE Station and will go to Caracas, Venezuela, in the same employment capacity. The proposed salary for him will be $13,769 per year (equivalent JS-13/3). Other allowances which DI GERVENO will be entitled to during his assignment will be as follows:

Quarters Allowance $4,600 p.a.

Post Differential 10%

Equalization Allowance 2,200 p. a.

Education Allowance
2 children at $900 p.a. each 1,800 p.a.
2 children at $1,000 p.a. each 2,000 p.a.

Transfer Allowance 175

Temporary Lodging Allowance
$9.00 per day per adult up to 90 days
$4.50 per day per child under 11 years
Supplementary Post Allowance for 5 dependents (other than wife and self) for up to 90 days at $5.00 per day.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

- 2 -

Furniture Monetary Allowance $4,500
(does not include appliances)

Appliances 650
Stove $125.00
Refrigerator $295.00
Freezer $230.00

Costs of Air Travel and shipment of
personal effects 5,865.75

Total air fare from Miami
to Caracas for six adults
and one child $929.50

Total per diem for ¼
day at $25.00 a piece
for six adults and one
child 81.25

Passport charges (pictures,
fees, etc) for seven persons35.00

Taxis to and from
airports 20.00

Total HHE shipping and
storage of 12,000 lbs at
$40.00 per CWT - estimate
includes excess baggage
and air freight 4,800.00

Reimbursement for Venezuelan Income Tax computed
at 6% of reported salary, estimated at
$18,369 1,102 p.a.

Reimbursement for operational use
DI GERVENO private vehicle. 600 p.a.

3. DI GERVENO and family are considered to be mentally and
   physically fit for overseas duty.

4. Current and previous cover utilized by Subject are as
   follows:

(a) Subject was legitimately employed in Havana, Cuba,
as the manager of a combined Havana District Sales Office which
handled the individual businesses of several US firms during the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

- 3 -

period 1954 through July 1951. His income during that period of time was approximately $10,000 per year.

(b) Subject has been under non-official cover from July 1961 to the present as a consultant for the Roberts Electronic and Engineering Service. This cover is backstopped from the principal office in New Jersey.

5. Subject is available to assume the proposed cover immediately.

6. It is proposed that Subject arrive in Caracas around the beginning of January 1968.

7. The project cryptonym under which Subject will be carried if CIELBON.

B. Biographic Information

1. Date and place of birth: 27 January 1928 in Havana, Cuba,

Sex: Male.

Race: Caucasian - mildly dark skin.

Religion: R man Catholic

Citizenship: US (naturalized)

Previous citizenship: Cuban (by birth)

Marital Status: married.

Children: three sons and one daughter ranging in ages from 10 to 16 years old)

Present residence address: 9361 S.W. 178th Street
Perrine 57, Florida

2. Number and relationship of dependents to accompany Subject on his foreign assignment;

Wife

Four children - ranging in age from 10 to 16

Mother-in-law

All of above dependents live with Subject at the address listed as Subject's present residence.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET

3. Education: Tulane Univeristy (1945-1948) - Subject obtained a DS in Psychology

Tulane University (1943-1954) - Subject obtained a MA in Humanities and lacks one year to complete PH. D.

4. Subject was a legitimate businessman in Havana, Cuba, from 1954 through July 1961. He was the general manager of a Havana District Sales Office which represented several US firms (Appleton Electric Co., Century Electric, Hubbard Aluminum Products, Okonite Company) in Cuba. In the ensuing period from July 1961 to the present, Subject has been employed by a CI-created commercial organization (JMOCEAN), during which time it might be presumed that Subject acquired additional commerical expertise. Subject's salary has ranged from $10,000 (in Cuba) to $13,769 (currently).

5. Outside interests which might provice basis for cover development: None.

6. Objective personality evaluation: Subject is very friendly, outgoing, neat in appearance and fully bi-lingual. liis fitness reports reflect his congeniality in addition to his conscientious behavior and attituäe.

7. Subject is consiuered to be financially solvent and to be without any unnatural debts or outstanding loans.

9. Previous foreign residence: Subject lived in the US for nine years while attencing Tulane University. The remainder of Jubject's life has been spent in Havana, Cuba, or Miami, Florida. Subject has had several fairly extensive TDYs to severai Latin American countries.

9. Subject is fully bi-lingual (Spanish and English). He has limited capability in Portuguese, Italian and French. He is boing assigned to a Spanish speaking country.

C. Security Considerations

1. Subject has been employed by CIA since June 1950. Subject was granted a Type à clearance on 5 September 19ol in addition to the issuance of a CSA on 27 January 1955 (CS #214 122) to permit Subject's conversion from Contract Employee to Career njent Status.

2. Subject is fully witting of CIA interest.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

- 5 -

3. Subject's Type A clearance permutted him to work in the JM.AVE Station during much of his tour in silami. He has been inside Headquarters building on at least four occasions.

4. Subject was the Principal Agent for a Cuban stay-behind operation during the period June 1960 through July 1961. On four occasions, he was held and questioned for short periods of time by Cuban -2. while there is no evidence that Cuban 15 has positively identified Subject as a CIA asset, it can be presumed that Cuban IS is alert to the strong possibility of Subject's CIA connection. Subject's wife is fully witting of Subject's true employment.. Subject may have been exposed to other than CIA staff employees by one of the members of his stay-behind net either during the period when he was operationally active in Cube or subsequently. However, while in Kiani. Subject has stuċiously avioded contact with the Cuban community, thereby obviating further speculation about his present employment. Subject's 'cover curing his tenure in Miami (from July 1961 to the present) appears to have been excellent.

There are no relatives or close friends of Subject or his wife in Venezuela.

5. No connection with any intelligence organization other than CIA.

6. No adverse factors in Subject's personal life.

7. Subject has never used any Agency reference.

8. & 9. After his present proposed tour, Subject will be expected to continue in a similar capacity elsewhere in the wil arca. It is expected that Subject's tour in Caracas will be at least four years.

10. Paula Ross RODRIGUE wife. Resides with Subject.

11. Subject has both contract life insurance and contract hospitalization under the auspices of this Agency.

12. No members of Subject's family have current clearances. Subject's wife is the only member of his family that is witting of his true employment.

SEGRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

D. Operational information

## 1. Type of Operation.

Subject will be a Principal Agent for established agents, specifically tested penetrations of leftist/extremist groups in Venezuela. In the course of his activities, he will act as a spotter and assessor of new agents, but will not be expected to participate in attributable recruitment attempts.

## 2. Location.

Caracas, Venezuela.

## 3. Subject should be able to travel freely throughout Venezuela in addition to being able to occasionally make TDY trips to other Latin American countries and Europe.

## 4. Special Groups agent should be able to contact.

There are special groups Subject should be able to contact, beyond those he could normally approach, given his background and education.

## 5. Subject should be able to attribute an income of at least $18,000 per year.

## 6. Subject should be able to devote at least 30 hours a week to operational auties.

## 7. Communications channels desireć.

No special communications channels will be necessary.

## 8. Cover Suggestiona

Cover arrangements have been initiated with HUNKELER in Miami. HUNKELER has a consultant and sales organization operating in Latin America and is considered by all Division as being able to provide excellent cover for Subject.

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

# NONOFFICIAL
# COVER REQUEST
# FOR INDIVIDUAL

HEADQUARTERS EDITION

FORM
10-64 2311

SECRET

> [Figure] Image of a stamp with the text: GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

# NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST
FOR INDIVIDUAL

To insure the most effective application of nonofficial cover, it is essential that cover requirements be brought to the attention of Central Cover Staff in the earliest stages of planning. As soon as it has been determined that an agent is to be placed under nonofficial cover, either in the United States or abroad, a meeting with a representative of Central Cover Staff should be arranged. (When outside recruitment of an agent for a nonofficial cover assignment is contemplated, Central Cover Staff facilities are available to facilitate "clean" recruitments and protect the agent against identification with CIA during the integration period.) Initial discussions will be informal and exploratory and should result in the elimination of unsuitable cover possibilities. Central Cover Staff, Nonofficial Cover Branch telephone extensions are 5144 and 5122.

Following the initial discussion, and based upon it, a cover require- ment memorandum signed by or for the operating division chief should be submitted to Central Cover Staff. It is specifically requested that a headquarters case officer other than the agent himself be designated to deal with Central Cover Staff in the development of the desired non- official cover, including the preparation of the cover requirement mem- orandum, in order that this development may proceed on a completely objective basis. This memorandum may be keyed to the paragraphs numbered-below to obviate repetition.

No commitments will be made with any cover organization until Central Cover Staff has been advised by memorandum that the proposed cover and the agent's participation in the operation have been concurred in by the field and/or the Chief of Operations, DD/P. Such memoranda are to be signed by or for the division chief. Each agent proposed for a nonofficial cover assignment is subject also to personal interview by a designee of Chief, Central Cover Staff, for assessment as to his suit- ability for the proposed cover. This interview, when required, will be requested by Central Cover Staff.

At the conclusion of the discussions with the operating divisions and discussions between representatives of Central Cover Staff and the cover organization, two formal documents ordinarily will be prepared:

a. The first, a "Letter of Cover Instructions" addressed to the agent will be prepared by the Central Cover Staff. It will outline exactly the cover story to be employed and will specify what is expected of the agent to maintain a proper relationship to the cover fa- cility. Each item in the instructions will be discussed with the agent and/or his case officer by the Central Cover Staff case officer, after which the agent will be required to acknowledge the receipt of these instructions. The branch chief concerned will also be

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

asked to indicate that nothing in the "Letter of Cover Instructions" conflicts with instructions given the agent by the operating division.

> . When the cover facility is a legitimate organization rather than an Agency-controlled mechanism, a "Letter of Understanding" with the cover organization is prepared by Contract Personnel Division. It is the "contract" with the cover organization.

The "Letter of Understanding" and the "Letter of Cover Instructions" be submitted to the operating division for comments and concurrence before presentation, respectively, to the cover organization and the agent for signature. Sanitized copies, in duplicate, of both the letter of Cover Instructions" and the "Letter of Understanding" will furnished the operating division—one copy of each for headquarters intention and one for transmittal to and retention by the field station for its guidance and reference by the agent as required.

NONOFFICIAL COVER REQUEST

GENERAL INFORMATION

1.  Pseudonym of agent to be covered and any pseudonyms, cryptonyms or ahases used previously. Has Central Cover Staff been requested to develop nonofficial cover for this agent before? If so, under what pseudonym, cryptonym or alias?

2.  Current employment status and contemplated Agency status under cover if different from current status, l.e., Staff Employee, Staff Agent, Contract Employee, Contract Agent, Career Agent, etc.; Agency salary range, kinds and amounts of allowances to which agent will be entitled during his assignment under non-official cover.

> . Is the agent now considered by the Agency's Medical, Psychiatric, Assessment and Evaluations Staffs to be fit for overseas duty?

> . Current and or previous nonofficial or official covers employed by the agent, including foreign and domestic, formal or informal cover stories, with a statement as to the extent of backstopping in each case. Unbackstopped, informal cover stories used for domestic disguise of CIA staff employment are specifically requested.

> . Date of availability of agent to assume the cover.

> . Proposed date of departure for overseas post. It must be recognized that cover necessitating the development of a new facility frequently requires several weeks for the necessary clearances of the proposed cover facility's committing officials. Additional weeks of negotiation, company training, etc., often are necessary.

SECRET

SECRET

7. Project cryptonym under which agent will be carried. If there is no approved project in the conventional form, the basic authority should be cited and a statement given that funds are available to support any financial commitments made to the cover organization.

B. BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

1.  Date and place of birth, sex, race, religion, current citizenship status, previous citizenship(s), marital status, children, present and last previous residence addresses.

2.  Number and relationship of adult dependents to accompany agent on his foreign assignment, together with current residence and a statement as to availability of biographical information on each. Number and relationship of minors who are to accompany.

3.  Education (college transcripts may be required where academic cover desired).

4.  Business or professional experience including salary ranges in previous positions.

5.  Outside interests, hobbies, etc., which might provide basis for cover development.

6.  Objective personality evaluation.

7.  Agent's personal financial status in general terms, including approximate amount of loans and debts outstanding.

8.  Previous foreign residence—generally discussed.

9. Language abilities with particular reference to language(s) Indigenous to the area of assignment. If English is not agent's native language, state the degree of proficiency in English.

C. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

1.  How long has the agent been employed by CIA? Security approval number, date issued, and purpose for which granted. Any derogatory information developed by investigation.

2.  Is agent to know specifically of CIA interest, only of U.S. Government interest, or neither?

3.  How frequently has agent entered CIA headquarters installations or field installations substantially identified as CIA?

4.  Cite any identification of agent's CIA connection to other than CIA staff personnel. Include relatives, friends, neighbors. Cite any known or suspected foreign intelligence interest in agent at any time and any known incidents or circumstances which may have tended to compromise his cover security. Does the agent or spouse have relatives or close friends in or near the area of assignment? Are they presumed witting or unwitting of his U.S. Government connection?

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET

5. Has agent any past connection with or has his intelligence status been identified to OSS, SSU, CIG, G-2, A-2, CIC, ONI or any foreign intelligence, police or security service? Is any such connection known outside CIA and the service involved?

6. Any other factors, such as family problems, which might have bearing upon the personal security of the agent or his ability to live his cover.

7. Has agent ever given CIA, Miss Violet Pitts, or "2430 E Street" or other potentially compromising reference for credit or other purposes? If so, where and approximately when? Cite any other instances of employment of cover for credit or other purposes not already cited above. Include specifically use of Agency-provided cover units or facilities.

8. After the currently proposed tour, do present plans for this agent contemplate (a) continuation in a nonofficial cover status; (b) transfer to an official cover status; (c) assignment to headquarters or (d) termination? It must be recognized that protection of certain nonofficial cover facilities precludes early assignment to a more compromising cover status after completion of the non-official cover tour.

9. If this request is for interim cover, what are foreseeable plans for eventual, more permanent cover?

10. Identity, relationship, degree of knowledgeability, and address of person designated to Chief, Benefits and Counseling Branch, Office of Personnel for contact in the event of an emergency situation involving agent, as prescribed by HR 20-46.

11 Government or Agency-affiliated beneficial plans in which agent participates (WAEPA, GEHA, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance, Association Benefit Plan, etc.) and other personal insurance held, together with identity and location of beneficiaries and whether or not each beneficiary is witting of agent's CIA affiliation.

12. Agent's Selective Service, military or naval reserve status, including current unit attachment.

13. Clearance status o: agent, spouse, and other adult dependents who will accompany agent overseas. Are spouse and adult dependents knowledgeable of agent's CIA connection? His Government connection? Has agent been polygraphed?

## OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

1. Type of Operation

The general type of operation involved, l.e., CA, FI, COMMO, Logistics, etc., and the expected duration of assignment. The sensitivity of the operation should be indicated-e.g., observation, spotting and reporting only; case officer for established agents;

# SECRET

recruitment of new agents; penetration operation-and a statement should be included as to the identities of any individuals and organizations, in the U.S. or abroad (other than CIA staff personnel, cover facility officials, and those listed under 2(C) (4) above), who are or will be made witting of agent's CIA or U.S. Government affiliation while he is under this nonofficial cover.

2. Location

The city in which the agent is to reside should be specifically stated and alternates in order of preference should be given

3. Indicate localities outside of agent's permanent location which agent should be free to visit and state the frequency and duration of such visits. Also it is important to know whether or not the time and intervals of such mectings will be determined by the agent or dictated by influences or circumstances beyond has control.

4. Special groups agent should be able to contact

It is sometimes possible to relate a cover to a particular group in the operatioral area, i.e., social, cultural, political, commercial. If this is considered an important factor in the cover, this aspect of the requirement should be explained in detail.

5. Approximate annual income which agent must be able to attribute to the cover organization. Sound cover, of course, requires overt (cover) explanation for a reasonable approximation of the sum actually to be available to the agent through Agency salary and allowances. However, a professional inteliigence agent's qualifications frequently cannot plausibly command an ostensible income from commercial or other lay sources nearly approaching his Agency income. Firm understanding should be had relative to the agent's living within his cover income. Reservation of a portion of his Agency remuneration may be required. A less desirable alternative is the provision of additional cover for income.

6. Estimate of the minimum number of hours per week which the agent must devote to operational duties.

7. Communications channels desired

In rare instances it may be possible to set up SW means of communication through the cover facility. If this is desired, the justification and frequency of such communication facilities should be indicated.

8. Cover Suggestions

Any specific cover suggestion or preferences expressed either by the agent or the operating division emphasizing the agent's special suitability to the cover suggested and or the special advantages of the cover vis-a-vis the target.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET





SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

SECRET 282200Z CITE CARACAS 7683

DIRECTOR, JMWAVE

KAPOK

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 29984

B. JMWAVE 8954(38443)

1. LABANOW MET WITH DIGERVENO AT AIRPORT 24 AUGUST AND DISCUSSED OP. HUNKELER PRESENCE AT AIRPORT TO SEE OFF BUSINESS ASSOCIATES FACILITATED PRELIMINARY THREE SIDED CONVERSATION RE COVER POSSIBILITIES AND TRAINING. HUNKELER AND DIGERVENO WHO ALREADY ACQUAINTED, APPEAR HAVE GOOD RAPPORT.

2. DISCUSSION CENTERED AROUND TRAINING, BUT IT CLEAR THAT HUNKELER FIRM OFFERS WIDE SCOPE COVER OPPORTUNITIES EITHER AS SALES REP, IN MARKET ANALYSIS, OR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SURVEYS. IN CONNECTION WITH LATTER, HUNKELER FIRM PLANS INITIATE STUDY IN COSTA RICA DURING NEXT SEVERAL WEEKS WHICH MAY OFFER OPPORTUNITY FOR ON THE JOB TRAINING FOR DIGERVENO IF LATTER SPECIALTY DECIDED UPON.

3. FOR IMMEDIATE FUTURE SUGGEST THAT FOLL ACTION BE TAKEN CONCURRENTLY WITH PREPARATION PROJECT IN ORDER TRY GET DIGERVENO IN PLACE BY I JAN 68:

A. HQS REP TRAVEL JMWAVE CONFER WITH HUNKELER AND 28 aug. 67

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

INDEX. ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
X-REF TO FILE NO
FILE RID ☐ RET. TO.
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
DISSEM BY. PER.
ACTION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPSODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
NOTIFICATION TO ☐
AU. CUPY
☐ISSUED ☐SLOTTED BY: AT:
INFO. FILE.

TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR
INITIALS SEEN BY
1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
RID COPY

PAGE TWO CARACAS 7683 SECRET

DIGERVENO TO PINPOINT COVER ASSIGNMENT AND PREPARE COVER
TRAINING PROGRAM.

B. THAT DIGERVENO BE MADE AVAILABLE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE TO UNDERTAKE FULL TIME TRAINING FOR COVER ROLE.

C. IF POSSIBLE, DURING TRAINING PERIOD, SUGGEST
DIGERVENO IDY CARACAS FOR ABOUT ONE WEEK TO REVIEW SITUATION
AND DISCUSS OP WITH STATION.

SECRET
BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

18 August 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3

FROM : Chief, WH/3/Venezuela

SUBJECT : Assignment of Emilio Rodrigues

1. I wish to make it clear that I do not oppose the assignment of Rodrigues per se to Venezuela, but I do have some reservations on what he is going to be doing. COS, Caracas intends to use him as the case officer for the CIHAVOC and CITILT Projects. Since both are basically CE/CI projects I think this is a great mistake. The amount of research in these projects necessarily requires a great amount of files research which Rodrigues in his cover situation will not be able to do. This will entail a greater amount of work for the inside case officer, defeating the purpose for which Rodrigues was originally considered; freeing the inside case officer for developmental work.

2. The introduction of Rodrigues into the CIHAVOC Case will also inťoduce one more step through which most of the vital information that CIHAVOC-2 produces must pass. For example, his info now goes through CIHAVOC-1 to the case officer. With the addition of Rodrigues one more time consuming step will be added.

3. I am also of the firm opinion that different case officers should be used for these operations since both are penetrations of the same party and at times produce similar info. In addition, both are extremely sensitive and the compromise of one could possibly lead to the compromise of the other.

4. If Rodrigues was assigned to Caracas for the handling of a sensitive case which exposure would be embarrassing to the United States, such as a high level political penetration or a sensitive Soviet/Satellite Case then it would be well justified. However, I feel that his assignment as an outside case officer for these two activities is not since they could be better handled and serviced from the inside.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Page 2

SECRET

18 August 1967

5. Finally, the cost of placing Rodrigues in the field is not commensurate with his planned utilization. It will cost over $40,000 for the first year and approximately $35,000 per year from then on. See attached approximate schedule prepared by WH/Support.
   An amount the current budget cannot easily absorb.

![Signature of Ernest J. Tsikerdanos]
Ernest J. Tsikerdanos
C/WH/3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SECRET

INDEX
YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
1. TO FILE NO
   FILE RID RET TO
   DESTROY SIS.

BRANCH

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled in)

TOTAL COPIES
2
ROUTING AND/OR
INITIALS - SEEN BY

1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
NOTIFICATION TO
ADV COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED BY: AT:
DISSEM BY: 21 PER
ACTION WH 8 RID COPY FILE: VR, WH/COS 8, COS 3, CSOS, OPZ

SECRET 241700Z CITE JMWAVE 8954 (STEADMAN ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS

DYVOUR

REF: DIRECTOR 29984

24 Aug 67 IN 38443

1. DIGERVENO ACCEPTS DEEP COVER ASSIGNMENT CARACAS ON BASIS ALLOWANCES AND BENEFITS DISCUSSED DURING HIS RECENTIDY HQS.

2. DIGERVENO WILL MEET LABANOW PER REF.

SECRET

BT

CIELBOW

SECRET

24 aug '67
201-274049


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET 172218Z CITE JMWAVE 8860

DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS

KAPOK DYVOUR

1. RE DIGERVENO FORTHCOMING ASSIGNMENT CARACAS UNDER DEEP COMMERCIAL COVER, DIGERVENO SUGGEST FOR HQS AND CARACAS CONSIDERATION THAT HIS WIFE BE EMPLOYED AS SECRETARY FOR BUSINESS. WIFE IS EXPERIENCED COMMERCIAL SECRETARY WITH KNOWLEDGE OF TYPING, SHORTHAND, FILING AND GENERAL OFFICE PROCEDURES. ALSO SPEAKS FLUENT SPANISH. WIFE HAS NEVER WORKED FOR WOFACT OR LINHARP.

2. BELIEVE USE OF DIGERVENO WIFE AS COVER COMPANY SECRETARY RATHER THAN LOCAL EMPLOYEE AS DISCUSSED IN HQS, WOULD GREATLY ENHANCE SECURITY OF OPERATION; AND WOULD OBVIOUSLY FACILITATE DIGERVENO'S WORK IN OFFICE ON SENSITIVE REPORTS.

3. IF ADDRESSEES CONCUR, REQUEST PROPER TYPE CLEARANCE FOR WIFE (IDEN).

4. WHILE ABOVE ENVISAGES USE OF WIFE PRIMARILY IN COVER CAPACITY, CARACAS MAY POSSIBLY SEE SOME ADVANTAGE HAVING HER ALSO FAMILIARIZE HERSELF WITH WOFACT PROCEDURES (REPORTS WRITING, DISPATCH FORMAT ETC) PRIOK DEPARTURE FROM JMWAVE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

INDR.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR
INITIALS - SEEN BY

SECRET 173218Z CITE JMWAVE 8861

DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS

KAPOK DYVOUR 17 AUG 67 IN 34022

REF: JMWAVE 8860 (IN 34037)

IDEN IS PAULINE JUANITA ROSS RODRIGUEZ, AKA PAULA, DPOB

2 JAN 23 BOGALUSA, LOUISIANA, U.S. CITIZEN.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

MEMORANDUM FOR: De/4/3
2/wit/3

Lets discuss when C/WN/3
returns. We know how we feel about this but the ops.
Considerations have not been
well thought out in my opinion.

Ev

(DATE)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

PAY AND ALLOWANCES - JULIO AZCUIQUE

GRADE: GS-13(2) SALARY $13,321 p.a.

GROSS PAY EVERY 4 WEEKS: $1,024.00
DEDUCTIONS:
Retirement $66.56
Contr. Life Ins. $12.00
Contract Health $86.52

Income Taxes withheld at JIAVE

Quarters Allowance: $4,600 p.a.
Post Differential: 10%
Equalization Allowance $2200 p.a.
Educational Allowance: 2 children $900 p.a. each
2 children $1,100 p.a. each

Transfer Allowance $175.00

Temporary Lodging Allowance $9.00 per day per adult up to 90 days
$4.50 per day per child under 11
Supplementary Post Allowance $5.00p.a. for each child, or $20 p.d.

Furniture Monetary Allowance $4,500 (does not include appliances)

Appliances to be added:

Stove $125.00
Refrigerator $295.00
Freezer $230.00

Under Project TVE, POV $50.00 allowance or full use of QP less personal mileage

Cost of Air travel and shipment of effects $5,865.75
$927.50 Total air fare Miami to Caracas $1143.00 (econ jet)
For 6 adults and 1 child
$31.25 Total per diem for ½ day $25.00 p.a., 6 adults, 1 child
$35.00 Passport charges (pictures, fees, etc.) for 7 persons
$20.00 Taxis to airport in Miami & from airport in Caracas
$4,200.00 Based on total shipping and storage allowances of
12,000 lbs. @$40.00 per CWT - estimated to include excess baggage an air freight.


SECRET

11 AUG 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

FORM 2010

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
REF TO FILE NO.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: SECRET
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
TOTAL COPIES: 16
DESTROY SIG.
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIL

ACTION: 25/M
INFO: C/WH/COC-5 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY
FILE: VR C/WHG, DDP, ADDP

SECRET 152663Z CITE LA PAZ 2505 15 May 67 IN 67462
JAWAVE INFO DIRECTOR
RY

COS WISHES TO COMMEND PETER J. DI GERVENO ON HIS
PERFORMANCE DURING RECENT TOY LA PAZ. DI GERVENO WORKED HARD
AND SKILLFULLY UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS, COOPERATED FULLY
WITH STATION, AND EARNED RESPECT OF GOS OFFICIALS FOR
COMPETENCE OF HIMSELF AND THEREFORE WOFACT.

SECRET
BT

SECRET

15 May '67
201-274047


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

INDEK: YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE B
X-REF TO FILE NO.
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES
19 habregorz
AMIKE-1
FILE RIO ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ACTION
ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
WH/CG-8 ☑ RID COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED
FILE, VR, CCS-3, CSPS, OP-2, D/ms-2

SECRET 241934Z CITE JMWAVE 6411
DIRECT OR
4 APR 67337140-
TYPIC PERSONNEL

RE EFFIELD-LABANOW TELECON OF 4 APRIL ALL MEMBERS OF
RODRIGUEZ FAMILY EXCEPT MOTHER OF EMILIO HAVE HAD MEDICAL
EXAMINATIONS. RESULTS WERE FORWARDED BY UFCT-18624
DATED 2 FEBRUARY. MOTHER SCHEDULED FOR 4 APRIL, RESULTS
WILL BE FORWARDED WITHIN THE WEEK.

SECRET
BT
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

T-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON-UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED

UNIT
TIME
SY

SECRET 311947Z CITE JMWAVE 6367

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, LA PAZ

REF: DIRECTOR 88252

31 MAR 67 534474

1. JMWAVE PREPARED SEND TYPIC CASE OFFICER PETER
   DI GERVENO (IDEN) WHO NATIVE SPANISH SPEAKER AND EX-
   PERIENCED IN WORKING WITH SGSWIRL OPERATORS. DI GERVENO
   HOLDING CONFIRMED RESERVATIONS 1 APRIL UNDER TRUE NAME,
   CAN ETA LA PAZ 1930 BRANIFF FLIGHT 521. SPACE ON NEXT
   AVAILABLE FLIGHTS SUNDAY, TUESDAY AND THURSDAY NOT YET
   CONFIRMED.

2. IF WOFACT OFFICER NOT REQUIRED, CAN SEND EX-
   PERIENCED CUBAN REFUGEE INTERROGATOR, HOWEVER REQUIRED
   TRAVEL DOCUMENTS WOULD DELAY ETD.

3. PLEASE ADVISE PRIOR 1900 PREFERED TIME ARRIVAL
   LA PAZ AND WHETHER WOFACT OFFICER REQUIRED.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

INDEXIO YES, CNO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPI 35
X-REF TO FILE NO.

SECRET

FILE RIDO RET. TO BRANCH

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFILO

DESTROY SIG.

PRECEDENC

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

1 CI 5

2 FO 6

3 7

4 8

ACTION -WH/C09 8 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY UNIT TIME BY

INFO FILE, UR, WHS, SODE, CCSS, Calca, eslps, esIDO, SECURA,

SECRET 3119472 CITE JMHAVF. 5368

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, LA PAZ

REF: DIRECTOR 88252

JIWAVE 6367 (IN 34474)

IDEN: EMILIO A. RODRIGUEZ

SECRET

BT

311AR0734458

ANNN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

WHD AGENT O

Part I - Request for action

NLE Poer. Digerveno
(Pseudonym)

STATUS: Caz000
(Career gespent, Contract amployes

PROPOSED ACTION:
Summary of branch and/or field recommendations; pecifie operationa task performed by individual; views re and autor short ringe utility of individual for Branch area and overal needs

1. It is recommended that Peter J. Digervena, a Type A Contract Agent with Career Agent status, be promoted frca his present trade GS-13 step 2 level to the grade (equivalcac) of 03-14 800 1.

2. During the period 1 December 1965 through 25 February 1967 Digerveno has served as an operations officer in the Fi Branca ac the Mical Station. Ilis performance during this period has been cacoccad-ing. His primary duty, and the one in which is performance has beca excepcionally competent, was as the principal caber of the co-called "operational flying squad" of the Station, 1.c., Le traveled, aloma or with another officer, to various creas of the world co ερχοch Cuban target personalities for recruitment purposes; to debrief ucaly Lecruited agents or resident agents traveling broed; to train newly recruited agents or more senior agents; to serve as a consulcons and cavicor on Cuban affairs for stations or bases which did noc pes0003 ca officer knowledgeable regarding Cuban operacions; to aid seca Scations in conducting operations, to ccafer with cad, where desired by the iceal Station, to advise or assist local liaison corvices in the couduct of Cuban operations.

3. Caly an officer with the highest qualificaticas cakes a fully effective "flying squad" member. He must be flucut in Cuban Spanish; he cust have crea knowledge in depth concerns Cuba, including the latest internal developments. He cast have a personality which enables hiu to induce officials--on occasion very senior officials to cofia-borate with the U.S. Goverment while serving dusida Cuba despico the sericus personal risks involved. lie must be able to train agents in all of the complex skills involved in the caintenance of a resident

CACH/COC
binici

Clytabuse

BOARD ACTION:

APPROVED BY:

DATE:

23 mar 67

701-77404g

SECRET
(when fiilea ta)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# WAID AGENT BOARD

Part I - Request for Action
(Continued)

agent in a Comuniss denied area, including OMVL, ceeret writing, crypto- graply, W/T procedures, concealment devices, personal security, incelli- gence colicction and reporting. He must bỏ able to acccplich all of this training against critical time limitations. It has been Digerveno's ability to handle this very complex and difficult job in a consistently effective and secure wanner which has won him the praise of the Hiami Station cauagement and commendations from several other field stations. He has turned in an exceptionally competent performance in every opera- tion which he has handled. In a Station which considers it has developed a number of very capable and versatile operations officers, Digerveno Gust be regarded as one of the two or three top officers, regardless of grade.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

WHO AGENT BO....D

Part II - Biographie Data

PSEUDONYM

Peter J. DIGERVENO

|             |             |
| ----------- | :---------: |
| DOB         | CITIZENSHIP |
| 27 Jan 1928 |     USA     |
| 201 NUMBER  | 201-274049  |

MARITAL STATUS

Married

DEPENDENTS (Relationship and! Jo)

Pauline - Wife - 30 January 1923

Ellio - Son - 11 September 1951

Joseph - Son - March 1953 14

Patti - Daughter - 23 October 1954 12

Paul - Son-1957 10

EDUCATION

| Dates   | Name of School    | Location    | Degree | Major Studies |
| ------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ------ | ------------- |
| 1945-48 | Tulane University | Tulane, La. | BS     | Psychology    |
| 1948-54 | Tulane University | Tulane, La. | NA     | Humanities    |



FOREIGN LANGUAGE ASILITIES--Indicate Proficiency--R-W-S-U

| Language  | Reading | Writing | Speaking | Understanding |
| --------- | :-----: | :-----: | :------: | :-----------: |
| Spanish   | Fluent  | Fluent  |  Fluent  |    Fluent     |
| Portugese |  Peer   |  Poor   |   Poor   |     Poor      |
| Italian   |  Poor   |  Poor   |   Poor   |     Poor      |
| French    |  Poor   |  Poor   |   Poor   |     Poor      |

NON-AGENCY EXPERIENCE--5 years prior to Agency Comection (Include Military Service)

| Dates     | Name of Employer                                                     | Location     | Job or Function | Salary/ Grade                   |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ | --------------- | ------------------------------- |
| 1954-1960 | Havana District Sales Office (Representative for various U.S. Firms) | Havana, Cuba | Manager         | $10,000 per annum approximately |



AGENCY EXPERIENCE--Staff ☐ Contract ☐ Career K Agent Contract ☐ Employee

| Dates           | *Cover loyer Name                   | Location     | Basic Salary   | Ops Tasks                                       |
| --------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------ | -------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| June-60-July-61 | Scare as above. Bona fide business. | Havana, Cuba | $300 per conch | Case Officer Principal Agent, Stay behind offic |


July-61-

Present JACOCEIN

| Miami, Fla. | $13,321 per annum | FI Ops Offic |
| ----------- | ----------------- | ------------ |


*Indicate also nature of business and whether bend ride or Agency mechanism.

SECRET

(when filled in)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET
(when filled in)

WHD AGENT BO..RD

Part III

Chronological Narrative
Performance Report

PSEUDONIM

Peter J. DICERVEKO

Summary of evaluation of past performance (if applicable) with emphasis
and details of current performance for assigned operational tasks

| D. TFS           | LOCATION       | AGENCY TASK        |
| ---------------- | -------------- | ------------------ |
| June 60-July 61  | Havana, Cuba   | FI, FM, CA, CI, SB |
| July 61-April 65 | Miami, Florida | FI                 |
| May 65-Precent   | Miami, Florida | FL.                |

During the period June 1960-May 1965 DIGERVEKO acquired considerable
FI operational experience, beginning with approximately 18 concks in a
hostile, Lenici Area atmosphere. He is a cost conscicacious officer,
absorbed by and dedicated to his work. He is resourceful, constructive,
*capable and requires a minimum of supervision. iie has growth potential
as en operations officer and can handle FI, CL and CA caces with equal
competence His appearance is more typically Latin American than native
United States which enhances his usefulness in Latin American and some
European posts. Ile would be most effective in deep cover commercial
assignments where his business experience and fluent Spanish can be
used with maxim effectiveness.

During tie period May 1965 through Deccaber 1966, DIGERVERO has
turned in an unusually strong performance. For detailed information
concerning his performance see attached current Fitness Report.

In case of "New Hire" include a personality assessment in terms of
capability, attitude, and projected suitability; state names of Division
personnel who have interview him; give account of his performance in
current non-Agency job.

SECRET
(when filled )


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

SECTION B

W-Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category, requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P- Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O- Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

## SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Develops, recruits, trains, briefs and dispatches denied area resident agents.

RATING
LETTER

O

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Handles denied area resident agents thru clandestine communications channels (OWL, SW and W/T).

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Handles agents in Station area engaged in developing leads to denied area target officials and carrying out operational support functions.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Reports by dispatch, cable and internal memorandum.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Coordinates extensively with other elements in the Station and with other Stations concerning his operational responsibilities.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
LETTER

## OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER

S


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

This officer's performance during the reporting period has been distinguished by outstanding devotion to duty and exceptional competence in all phases of denied area operations. As one of the officers on the Station's "flying squad", subject has travelled widely and often to meet and handle denied area agents in western countries as far separated as Mexico City and Beirut, spending six of the last twelve months away from the Station; despite the consequent disruption of his family life, he has accepted and carried out every assignment with unfailing enthusiasm and consistently high standards of performance, is perceptive manipulation of people, whether in approaching and recruiting new agents or guiding and controlling established resident sources, has shown positive results in product quality and operational security throughout the reporting period. His ability to prepare an agent for clandestine operations in a denied area, in both tradecraft and psychological terms, is unsurpassed among officers working against their logical target; he is imaginative, yet meticulous in paying attention to the multitude of detail needed for successful resident agent operations, and is able to draw extensively on his earlier personal experience as a stay-behind resident to buttress his briefings. Most of his operational contacts have been carried out abroad, without the advantage of briefings. Continuing personal contact with senior Station officers; despite the often unfamiliar local situation, he has consistently maintained the highest Tradecraft standards and respect of all elements of the host Station.

SECTION D

1. DATE
   9 February 1967

2. MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION
20. 
CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE
I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT
/s/ Peter J. Di Gurveno (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.)
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

DATE
9 February 1967
BY SUPERVISOR
IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

3. COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
   See Attachment.

DATE
16 February 1967
OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
Chief, FI Branch, JMWAVE (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.)
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
/s/ Mortimer McCollough
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
Chief of Station, JMWAVE (signed in pseudo on Fld. Trans.)
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
/s/ John P. Ditzler, Jr.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

SECTION C - NARRATIVE COMMENTS (cont'd)

wherever he has been.

Subject's linguistic ability (bi-lingual Spanish-English) and has logical, orderly approach to his work are particularly effective with respect to clandestine communications. Not only is he fully qualified to instruct agents in SW and OWVL (including the use of numerical and literal ciphers), but the clandestine messages he prepares himself are notable for meaty content, unambiguous style and concise format; other officers less fluent in Spanish frequently consult him concerning their own OWVL or SW messages.

Although Subject is a career agent, he has functioned in a staff capacity during most of his tour at this Station. Lacking experience with internal procedures at the beginning, he is today fully familiar with operational administration and production) and support matters, and his files (operational, administrative are among the best and most complete in the Branch. He is by nature a gregarious person but is also self-sufficient and likes to work on his own; left to his own devices, he may spend undue time on routine detail which could be handled by his secretary or one of the Branch IAs but this characteristic has been most valuable during TDY trips when circumstances have often left him without the possibility of any qualified assistance. In all his work he shows a healthy regard for operational and administrative economy and is cost-conscious in the use of funds and materiel.

Subject's performance merits an exceptionally strong evaluation when rated against the standards expected of staff officers in his grade. He is an outstandingly able agent handler in Cuban operations and as he acquires broader experience, can be expected to compare equally favorably with officers running denied area operations anywhere in the world. In terms of personal character and professional talent, he is a fine officer, dedicated to the work of this organization, and it has been a distinct pleasure to have served with him.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

SECTION D - 3 COMMENTS BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The Chief of Station has chosen to review this report in order to underline the very high opinion held by the Station concerning the performance of this officer. The excellent educational background, intense devotion to duty, courage, imaginative approach to operations, agent-handling ability, and his tradecraft skills have been noted in other reports and need not be repeated here. However, the reviewer wishes to note that during the reporting period, laced with a number of new operational challenges and a sizeable amount of independent work in areas far removed from the Station location, Subject has turned in an unusually strong performance. In his handling of several important and sensitive agents being mounted into a denied area Subject demonstrated exceptional attention to detail, a fine knowledge of tradecraft, and unusual good judgment in a number of difficult operational situations. Thus, the reviewer fully concurs with the narrative comments and the performance evaluations of the rating officer.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, WAD

CLASSIFICATION
RYBAT - SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

INFO
FROM
Chief of Station, JMWAVE REE

MICROFILM
SUBJECT
Renewal of Robert S. HUNKELER Contract

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: As Indicated

1.  The present contract with Robert S. HUNKELER expires on 31 March 1967 and the question of renewal is up for immediate treatment and decision. The paragraphs below outline the major factors to be considered in this matter.

2.  HUNKELER is a former staff officer who resigned from WOFACT in 1964 to establish a market research and marketing firm. He was recontacted in the spring of 1965 and employed as an independent contracter by the then COS, JMWAVE, who expressed the hope that this relationship might set a standard for use by WOFACT of former staff officers as long term clandestine assets and outlined HUNKELER's duties and responsibilities as follows:

a. To provide cover for WOFACT personnel abroad.

b. Spotter and assessor of Central American consular community in Miami.

c. Spotter and assessor of recruitment targets throughout Latin and Central America as developed through his travels and contacts.

d. Third party recruiter and agent handler, but only in certain carefully controlled circumstances.

3.  These original concepts framing HUNKELER's activities have continued as the major guide lines to his employment. Also added was the task of reporting such positive and operational intelligence as he might elicit from his contacts and associates.

Attachments

1 - Operational Review of Robert S. HUNKELER h/w

2 - IDENTITIES u/s/c

Distribution:

3 - WH/COG w/atts.

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-27019

DATE
16 February 1967

CLASSIFICATION
RYBAT - SECRET

KOFLE NUMBER
21-27404-9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH                                                              UFGA-27019

RYBAT-SECRET

4. The following summarizes the progress that was made in these areas during the two year period of HUNKELER's contract status with us.

a. Cover was provided for a Berlin based agent, ANTHRILL/1.
Although the agent was terminated by Berlin Station, management of his cover was competently and professionally handled by HUNKELER. HUNKELER has continued to offer his services to WOFACT in this respect and, although he could provide a cover office anywhere in the Latin American sphere, has specifically suggested Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Costa Rica and Venezuela. He is now in the process of opening, on his own initiative, branch offices in Venezuela and the Dominican Republic and again volunteered them for possible use as cover. According to HUNKELER, Station Caracas has shown some interest in taking advantage of the offer. There has been no other use by WOFACT of this HUNKELER potential during the past two years. Such use in the future is an open question depending in part on whether WOFACT has a requirement for cover facilities such as this, and in part on the nature of our relationship with HUNKELER.

b. HUNKELER has met frequently with members of the Central and Latin American consular community in the Miami area. These associations were enhanced by HUNKELER's activity and participation in several international organizations concerned with business and social relations among Latin and North American countries. Some operational information was gathered about these persons, but none of them ever shaped up as a valid intelligence target worthy of further development and recruitment. It is not expected that this target area will be of any more interest in the future than it is now.

c. HUNKELER has a large number of business associates through out Latin America and in his travels has contacted a number of government officials up to the presidential level. Most of these contacts have been of a business nature. One of them, a Panamanian legislator, is of some interest to the Panama Station. Interest in the others has been minimal. Future prospects remain open, but must be considered as long range.

d. There has been no use made of HUNKELER as a third party recruiter and agent handler during his two year tenure. He has declared himself always ready and willing to take on agent handling tasks, but the Station has found it more advantageous and efficient to use inside personnel for this. It is highly unlikely that station policy will change in this regard.

4. HUNKELER has been on several business trips during this period. On these occasions he was given an intelligence brief and his operational expenses were defrayed by WOFACT. The results, in terms of disseminated reports, have generally been negative.

5. Recently, HUNKELER provided an introduction to some individuals who have a potential for use in the JMUNION program, There was some discussion of continued activity for HUNKELER in this program, but it was the consensus that there was not sufficient promise in his contribution to merit retaining him for this purpose alone. It can be expected, however, that he might, in the future, assist in entree to other persons of JMUNION interest.

6. Station JMWAVE is of the opinion that employment of Robert S. HUNKELER has not had the results that were hoped for when the contractual relationship was first established. Recognition of this was implicit in the renegotiation of his salary scale from $4800 to $3600 per annum in March 1966 at the end of his first year's contract. It is also the opinion of this Station that there is little likelihood of improvement in the near future although it is recognized that a long range potential exists. These statements are made without prejudice to Robert S. HUNKELER, who has at all times taken a responsible, willing and cooperative attitude in his relationships with Station representatives.and discussions of tasks and the prospects of future employment. It should be noted that HUNKELER wants very much to retain some form of relationship with the organization, as much for reasons of interest in the intelligence profession as for income he might derive.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH RYBAT-SECRET UFGA-27019

Headquarters Action Requested

7. To summarize, it is JMWAVE's view that HUNKELER's only actual
   potential value to WOFACT is as a support agent to Wil Division as a
   whole, in supplying unofficial cover and possibly in spotting, develop-
   Ing, and recruiting JMUNION assets. His value to operations of JMWAVE
   Station itself will be non-existent or minimal, since there is little
   HUNKELER can do for that Station which cannot be accomplished more
   easily by a staff employee. Therefore, it is requested that Head-
   quarters review this case and comment as soon as possible. The
   alternatives are:

a. Renewal of contract as it is at present salary of $3600
per annum.

b. Terminate, HUNKELER has advised that he is not prepared
to accept a salary under his present level. It is suggested that the
following representative memoranda also be read in this connection:

UFGT 18719, Memorandum in Lieu of Fitness Report
UFGA 26782, Unofficial Cover Opportunity, Caracas
UFGA 26598, JMUNION/Donald James Miller
UFGA 26195, Unofficial Cover Opportunity, Haiti
UFGA 26170, HUNKELER Visit to Haiti

8. The above was outlined to Robert S. HUNKELER on 15 February
   1967 by his present Case Officer, Jeremy F. GEDLAND. After an object-
   ive and frank discussion, HUNKELER requested that he be permitted an
   opportunity to prepare a memorandum setting forth his views on the
   situation and further asked that it be forwarded to Headquarters in
   conjunction with the present memorandum. The Case Officer agreed that
   he should be granted the chance to so express himself and to be heard
   on all levels where his employment was being treated of. HUNKELER'S
   memorandum is attached.

Philip G. ELMARD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

S-F-C-R-E-T

Date 19 October 1966

Career Agent Biographic Data

a. Pseudonym of agent Peter J. DiGerveno Staff or Division WH

b. Date and place of birth: 27 January 1928 - Cuba

c. Marital status: Married

d. Relationship and years of birth of dependents:
Wife - 30 Jan 1923 Son - 1957
Son - 11 Sep 1951
Son - Mar 1953
Dau - 23 Oct 1954

e. Citizenship of agent: USA

(1) If naturalized, when?

(2) If naturalized, where?

f. Non-CIA education to include name and location of college, degrees, dates, and major:
1945-48 Tulane University Tulane, La BS Psychology
1948-54 Tulane University Tulane, La MA Humanities

g. Military service None

(1) Country served and years:

(2) Branch of service and rank:

h. Non-CIA employment: Kinds of business or profession, positions, salaries, locations, and dates:
1954-1960 - Was manager of a combined Havana District Sales Office for various U. S. firms. Income estimated at about $10,000 yearly.

S-F-C-R-E-T Group 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

S-E-C-R-E-T

(Career Agent Biographic Data p. 2)

i. Da es of psycholog.cal assessment, professional and language aptitude tests, if applicable:

j. Languages, including English, using the following terms:

Elementary, Intermediate, High, Native

| Language   | Reading | Writing | Speaking |
| ---------- | ------- | ------- | -------- |
| Spanish    | Fluent  | Fluent  | Fluent   |
| Portuguese | Poor    | Poor    | Poor     |
| Italian    | Poor    | Poor    | Poor     |
| French     | Poor    | Poor    | Poor     |

k. Agency training:

| Subject Covered | Duration of Course | Years Taken |
| --------------- | ------------------ | ----------- |
|                 |                    |             |

l. Alias or pseudonym used for psychological assessment, testing or training, if applicable:

m. Security clearance number:

n. Date of last 1.CFLUTTER:

o. Contract provisions: (Underline One)

(1) Provision for periodic step increases
Yes No

(2) Provaion for legislative pay mercases
Yes No

(3) Provon for total oftet of cover income
Yes No

(4) Provon for vil service retirement
Yes N

(5) Any unusual provisions (please specify)

S-EC-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

S-E-C-R-E-T

(Career Agent Biographie Data p. 3)

P Date of beginning of current tour:

q. Previous CIA employment:

| Years       | Type of Cover | CIA Duties                      | Project     | City   | Salary  |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------------------------------- | ----------- | ------ | ------- |
| 15 Jul 1961 |               | Contract Agent (MOC)            | JMWAVE      |        | $9600   |
| 1 Sep 1962  | NOC           | Conversion to Contract Employee |             |        |         |
|             |               | FI Ops Off                      | Taskforce W | JMWAVE | $9600   |
| 17 Mar 1963 | "             | FI Ops Off                      | "           | "      | $10,400 |
| 5 Jan 1964  | "             | "                               | "           | "      | $10,950 |
| 5 Jul 1964  | "             | "                               | "           | "      | $11,295 |
| 14 Feb 1965 | "             | Conversion to Career Agent      | "           | "      | $11,315 |
| 1 Dec 1965  | "             | "                               | "           | "      | $12,510 |
| 3 Jul 1966  | "             | "                               | "           | "      | $12,873 |

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# ATTACHMENT TO UFGA 27019

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Operational Review of Robert S. Hunkeler

DATE: 16 February 1967

## Background:

1. Shortly after Hunkeler resigned from KUBARK he met with the then Chief of Station on several occasions concerning Hunkelers potential use as a Station asset. It was between the period following his resignation, and before his first contract with the Station, that the COS told Hunkeler that he was in a "cooling off period" during which time Hunkeler should devote his energies towards the settlement of his personal affairsand the development of his own business interests. Hunkeler was also told that his value to the Station and to KUBARK would be increased if he were free from all ties with KUBARK and ODYOKE in order that Hunkeler may be available at a later date for KUBARK assignments. The COS did not, however, make any commitments to Hunkeler.

## Developments:

2. During the months which followed Hunkelers resignation he proceeded to attend to his personal affairs in Lakeland, Florida, and established his company, Identity A, in the WAVE area.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

- 2 -

3. After a number of months had lapsed, Hunkeler was contacted by the Station COS and was recruited under a contract in the amount of $500.00 a month plus operational expenses. Hunkeler expressed a willingness to undertake any assignment and a desire to actively participate in operations. (His initial target was largely limited to the monitoring of the activities and the personalities of the foreign consular corp in the WAVE area and reporting on matters of operational interest as they came to Hunkelers attention.)

4. Shortly after Hunkeler was placed under contract he submitted a paper to the Station which spelled out a number of specific tasks which he could, under the cover of his company if required, undertake for the Station or KUBARK. (These assignments are still comptable with hio present cover and background.) There follows a list of these tasks;

(a) Sale of KURIOT doctored parts and supplies to the government of PBRUMEN through middlemen and in a manner as to not disclose Hunkelers involvement.

(b) Providing non-official cover facilities to persons being assigned overseas and who require a tight, realistic and flexible cover.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

- 3 -

(c) Recruitment pitches, courier work, or related assignments anywhere in Latin America.

(d) Monitoring of diplomatic and commercial activities in the WAVE area.

(e) Reporting on targets of operational interest, both in the WAVE area and in those countries where Hunkeler visits.

(f) Spotting and assessment of specific operational targets in the PEPRIME and in Latin America.

Review of Accomplishments:

5. Whereas Hunkeler remained ready and willing to travel anywhere at anytime for any KUBARK assignment, he was advised that his long range value would be jeopardized if he were to take operational assignments involving any degree of risk. Hunkeler was, in his opinion, "kept in a vacuum" as regards his being able to serve field Stations which have not to this date been made aware of his availability to travel except in those cases when his business travel takes to a country and the field Station is advised of his presence in the area.

6. From the outset Hunkeler began to report on developments in the JAVE area and he began to work in organizations which would permit him to penetrate the diplomatic community


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

- 4 -

and strengthen his operational capabilities in terms of being able to spot and assess Latin American political leaders. Hunkeler got him-self appointed to a policy making position in the Identity B, he was elected to the position of President of Identity C, appointed to the Board of Directors of Identity D, was elected to the position of President of Identity E, and became a delegate to several conferences (Panama, Jamaica and in PBPRIME) of the Identity F.

7. It was largely as a result of Hunkelers Latin American oriented commercial activities and his organizational activities that he was able to provide timely and valuable reports on the Dominican crisis, establish a personal relationship with Identity G and persons close to him, spot and access several Panamanian targets, and report on the activities and recommendations of Identity H, an organization which provides commercial policy to the President of Panama. (See ___________) Hunkeler kept the Station up to date on the personalities and activities of the Consular Corp in the WAVE area, and has furnished assessments and biographic information on 12 members of this group.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

- 5 -

8. Other accomplishments include the following:

(a) *Operational reporting:* During the last two years Hunkeler has traveled to and submitted operational and/or intel reports about Mexico, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Venezuela, Panama and Costa Rica, in addition to reports originating in the WAVE area.

(b) *Establishment of Cover Facilities:* In 1966 Hunkeler set up and maintained cover facilities for an agent who was initially trained in Hunkelers companies and subsequently assigned to a European post where he remained until a personal reduction cut caused his termination. The cover aspects of this cover operation, however, were tight and professionally mnaged by Hunkeler. Other cover facilities developed by Hunkeler in this period included a cover office facility in Haiti, Venezuela and the Dominican Republic.

(c) *Other:* In late 1966 Hunkeler met with an Officer assigned to the WAVE Station for the purpose of reviewing the operational potentials of the Caribbean. Hunkeler was able to provide the Officer with the names and introductions to persons well known to lHunkeler who are now in the Caribbean or residing in Miami and available to participate in went, p.a., or informant capacities.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

- 6 -

## Present Situation:

9. In early February, 1966, Hunkeler met with a Case Officer of the Cracas Station who reviewed Hunkelers existing business activities in Venezuela and who told Hunkeler that the Caracas Station desired to use a Hunkeler company for non-official cover purposes in Venezuela. The success of Hunkelers commercial activities in the Dominican Republic (and the corresponding move by Hunkeler to open an office in Santo Domingo) is a recent development and there has not yet been time to query Station Santo Domingo as to whether or not they have a requirement to use Hunkelers facilities. (Hunkeler is presently phasing out of much organizational work in the WAVE area in order to devote more time to the chore of setting up his operations in Santo Domingo and Venezuela where both of his companies are currently doing business.)

10. There are several aspects of Hunkelers present business activities which have not yet been finalized: He will soon terminate his lease at his present address and has not yet decided where to re-locate his offices; he is still in negotiations with an investment group in Haiti and may undertake a consultant type survey there which would provide access to Haiti of possible interest to that Station.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

-7-

Future Potentials:

11. When Hunkelers contract was about to expire in February, 1966, he met with a Station Officer and advised that he was fully in accord with a salary cut from $500.00 to $300.00 a month in keeping with budgetary cuts which were evident at that time. Moreover, Hunkeler volunterily ceased requesting reimbursement for operational expenses choosing to use his KUBARK income for entertainment expenses which oftimes have operational value to KUBARK. Although he has expressed his strong desire to continue his KUBARK relationship under a renewal of his present contract for $300.00 a month, he has advised that he does not care to renew his contract for a figure of less than $300.00 a month.

![signature of Robert S. Hunkeler]
Robert S. Hunkeler

16 February 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SEPARATE COVER ATTA MENT TO UFGA-27019

IDENTITY

A. The NALAD Corporation (North & Latin American Development Corporation), an exporting comany now specializing in industrial equipment, light industrial plants, and equipment.

B. Florida Colombia Alliance, founded by the Secretary of the State of Florida, Tom Adams.

C. The Dominican-American Chamber of Commerce

D. The Miami-Dade County Chamber of Commerce

E. The International Affairs Council of the Miami-Dade County Chamber of Commerce, the largest international trade organization in the Southeastern U.S.

F. The Chamber of Commerce of the Americas, comprised of 47 Chambers of Commerces from 17 countries.

G. Haitian Dictator Francois Duvalier

H. CONEP - Consejo Nacional de Empresas Privados (National Association of Private Industry)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET 151220Z CITE FRANKFURT 5899 (QUAINTANCE ACTING)

PRIORITY ROME, BEIRUT INFO DIRECTOR, JMWAVE IN. 57332

15 JULY 66

KAPOK TYPIC

REF A FRANKFURT 5627

B FRANKFURT 5882

C JMWAVE 1994

D ROME 2439

1. FYI ROME: DIGERVENO IS IDEN A USING IDEN B OPS ALIAS.

ASSUME BEIRUT WILL CABLE ETA. SOKENIS IS IDEN C USING IDEN
D OPS ALIAS. HE IS PARTICIPATING AGENT TRAINING.

2. AFTER INITIAL DIGERVENO DEBRIEFING OF ROMERO, BARRING
   UNFORESEEN COMPLICATIONS EITHER LANGOSCH OR SOKENIS COULD
   FOLLOW UP. DECISION DEPENDS ON CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH
   DEBRIEFING WILL TAKE PLACE IN ITALY. WILL APPRECIATE ROME
   COMMENTS PER REFS A AND B, INCLUDING VIEWS ON WHETHER LANGOSCH
   PARI ICIPATION WOULD INHIBIT FUTURE OPS USE IN ITALY.

3. FYI JMWAVE: AMVAN HAS TENTATIVE ARRANGEMENTS FOR
   ANOTHER MEET WITH NUNEZ WHICH MAY FACILITATE SOKENIS USE IN
   ITALY. WILL ADVISE DEVELOPMENTS.

4. SUGGEST ROME CABLE CONTACT DIGERVENO INSTRUCTIONS TO BEIRUT.

*CONCURRISS DI GERVENO STOPOVER
ITALY TO HANDLE ROMERO SCREENING
INTERVIEWS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 21-16524 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 22
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DISSEM BY 3
ACTION AC/WH/C 5 RID COPY
INFO FILE VR, CLEUR4, C/NE3, CLA, CLAPSER, CLCCS3, CLE12

SECRET 151220Z CITE FRANKFURT 5900 (QUAINTANCE ACTING)
PRIORITY ROME, BEIRUT INFO DIRECTOR, JMWAVE
KAPOK TYPIC
REF FRANKFURT 5899 (15-7332)
IDEN A: EMILIO RODRIGUEZ
IDEN B: MAJOR ALEXIS DELGADO
IDEN C: JOHN POULTER
IDEN D: CAPT LEWIS EXHOLM
SECRET
BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

### INDEX
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
R-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE R’D
DESTROY
FROM
ACTION
INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFICO
ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED
FILE, VR, WH/C-8, CI, CI/ps, RE

SECRET 0923562

PRIORITY MEXI INFO DIR CITE WAVE 3809

DYVOUR PBRUMEN ANTHRILL

REF A UFGA 21519

B MEXI 4068(*INO7548*) *

C WAVE 3810(*INO8651*)

10 JUL 65 08655

1. AMTHRILL-1 AND DI GERVENO ARRIVING MEXI 10 JULY, ETA 1930.

2. DI GERVENO (IDEN A) TRAVELING UNDER ALIAS' LEON BERNADA.
   PLAN STAY PRADO HOTEL. WILL CALL IDEN B AFTER SETTLED. PLAN
   VISIT STATION 12 AND 13 JULY.

3. DISPATCH REF A FORWARDED HQS 25 MAY 65, POUCH 2767,
   ITEM 20. BELIEVE COPY DELIVERED MEXI DURING REUTEMAN/ELMARD RECENT
   VISIT.

*CONCUR DIGERVENO VISIT

SECRET

CFN 3809 UFGA 21519 4068 3810 AMTHRILL-1 DI GERVENO 10 ETA 1930
DI GERVENO A ALIAS LEON BERNADA PRADO HOTEL B 12 13 A 25 65 2767
20 REUTEMAN/EL MARD

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASS TO FILE NO.
STAFF TO FILE NO.
FILE RIDO RET. TO BRANCH☐
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
24 SECRET
TOTAL COPIES 1

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

FROM
JWAVE

ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
ACTION
WH-8 ☑ RID COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TOODO
INFO
FILE, VRCI, CI/DPS, RE,WH/C-8

SECRET 0923562

PRIORITY MEXI INFO DIR CITE WAVE 3810

DYVOUR PERUMEN AMTHRILL . 10 JUL 65108651

REF WAVE 3809(IN08655)

IDEN A: EMILIO AMERICO RODRIGUEZ

IDEN B: ALAN WHITE. HOME PHONE 48-14-46.

SECRET

CFN 3810(3809) EMILIO AMERICO RODRIGUEZ ALAN WHITE 48-14-46

BT

![SECRE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

C: STEPHEN ROKA
VT: TSD/OA/AB/12 & 19
EXT: 2835
DATE: 5 MARCH 1965

TO : JMWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: TSD6

INFO: DOR, WH/C8, CCS3, OPZ VR FILE

TO WAVE INFO CITE DIR 90299

AQUATIC

RE UFGA 19153

DISGUISE TECH BERNARD PREPARED TO TDY

WAVE WEEK 15 MARCH. NEED NOT MEET. REQUEST
CONCURRENCE AND WHETHER SUBJECTS OF REF
AVAILABLE.

*End of Message*

TSD Comment: Request disguise support for WELDRAKE,
HUSEBY, SLOMAN, DIGERVENO and
AMTRUNK-21.

WH/SA/MOB Mr. Cini by phone x-6488
TSD/PERS Mr. E. Mac Lure by phone x-3031

![signature]

SIDNEY GOTTLIEB
DC/TSD
RELEASING OFFICER

![signature]

ROBERT BUSSEY
C/TSD/OA
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)