# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: LIENVOY-8

1.  As a result of the recent review done of the LIFEAT and LIENVOY Project, it came to Headquarters attention that LIENVOY-8, who was believed to have been terminated, was still covered by the LIEKVOY Project.

2.  According to HOMA-14876, LIENVOY-8 was the cause of a security problem for LIENVOY in February 1960 when he requested release from LIENVOY and a transfer to his parent organization, the General Staff of the Presidency. LIENVOY-8 was described as a "scur" nationalist who disapproved of ODTOKE's sharing of the LIENVOY take.

3.  Headquarters now notes that LIENVOY-8's clearance has never been cancelled and there is no Agent Service Record or termination report in his file. LIENVOY-8 was included in the LIENVOY Project renewal request for the 1961/62 project year, but not for the 1962/63 year. The field project renewal request for the 1963/64 year included him again.

4.  It is requested that the Station inform Headquarters of the present status of LIENVOY-8 (201-118406). If he has been terminated, please forward an Agent Service Record. If he is still being used, please provide a current analysis of his reliability and comments on any security problems present in light of his actions and reputation in 1960.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
0&1 - COS, Mexico City


|            |
| ---------- |
| HUME-12027 |
| SECRET     |

| 31 Oct 63 |
| 23 October 1963 |
| 201-118406 |


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)