# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S E C R E T

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: DEBRIEFING OF DAVID M. WILSTED (ps)

6 June 1960

1. On 1 June 1960 Mr. (John G. Heyn and Mr. John Kennedy of WHD,
   Mr.(Robert Brown) of CI/OPS, Mr.(Robert Bryant) of FI/OPS and Mr.(Charles Bray) of FI/D met with David M. WILSTED (ps).

2. WILSTED emphasized that the whole tolephone system in Mexico City is undergoing a reformation. The company Telefonos de Mexico, S.A., has sub-contracted this work of cleaning up and reorganizing the phone system to the independent firm, Intel. They are cleaning up unused and old lines, putting in new and spare lines, redefining exchange areas, laying underground cables, etc. Eventually we should be better off because there should be more surplus lines. The renovation work has hampered much of the LIFEAT work, principally because many of the lines now are underground and we cannot get access to them before they enter the central. This is particularly trus with respect to the Czech Em-basry, to whose telephone lines we cannot obtain access from the vantage point we now occupy.

3. WILSTED said that we try to keep track of the activities of "Intel" but since they seem to attack "Colonias" at random, we have no prior warning of their presence in a certain area.

4. In the recent past, Mexico has been using houses for listing posts for security reasons. We have more control over the access of phone company inspectors or repairman to houses. Ilowever, under new regulations, all now apartment buildings must have telephone lines installed in the building by the phone company during the construction phase. This means that the lines and their destination are concealed. WILSTED proposed that this will mean we can again use apartments since we can siphon off a line destined for use by another tenant in such a way that the phone company cannot trace its destination without tearing the building apart and we can then install a separate line to the building and hook up the subscriber to this line which, if checked, will belong to a legitimate subscriber.

5. One system which has been used effectively is to take one-half of two separate pairs which have one faulty line each. These two half pairs then form one good pair which we can use.

6. WIISTEN explained that it cost about 3000 pesos to get a reguler telephone. This entails the purchase of a telephone company bond, which later can be sold.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

7. Personnel involved in the tapping of the lines are:
   (Rene)- who has access to the centrals He contacts the following men:
   Two brothers
   (Jose) does exchange connections.

8. The take from each basehouse is collected early in the morning before office hours by RAFANELLI. He only enters one basehouse which is occupied by an elderly couple. All other contacts are in automobiles made at different spots each day of the week. RAFANELLI then takes the material to a meeting between him, WILSTED and SECHEN where RAFANELLI turns the material over to SECHEN and they all discuss the problems and plans for the day.

9. According to WILSTED there is no live monitoring done by any of the basehouse keepers.

10. There follows a list of the basehouses and the lines covered at each base:

a) (Calero 39) - formerly covered American commies, now no lines. Being held for future use.

b) (Juanacatlan 179)- Cuban residence
Russian Commercial
E. T. (Nicaraguan)

c) (Atlixco 47) - 2 Polish
Seborer
Cropate
Bekier

d) (Tenanzingo) - Cuban military office
Cuban Ambassador's office
Campos (travel agency)
1 spare

e) (Aristoteles 80) -UAR
Ejercito Nacional 540 (name of person unknown)

f) (Suderman & Horacio) - facilities for three lines. Formerly processed the Czech lines. Now nothing but being held open.

g) (Cuautla 131) - 3 Soviet Embassy (tapped in the Central)
1 Soviet propaganda office (tap in box)

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)