1200000
104-10004-10156 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box 8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

1 June 1964

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

1.  At 0900 this morning I talked with Frank Friberg recently returned COS Helsinki re Warren Commission inquiry concerning the timetable of Oswald's stay in Finland in October 1959, including his contact with the Soviet Consulate there. (Copy of the Commission letter of 25 May 64 and State Cable of 22 May 64 attached.)

2.  Friberg gave me the following information:

    a. It takes 25 minutes to drive from the airport to downtown Helsinki;

    b. By taxi, it would take no more than 5 minutes to reach the Soviet consulate;

    c. The Soviet consulate probably closed at 1300 hours local time on Saturdays in 1959;

    d. Passenger lists (manifests) at the U.S. Consulate in Helsinki are retained for six months only and then are destroyed. Mr. Robert Fulton (CIA) was U.S. consular official there at the time.

    e. A copy of State's cable inquiry would go to the Helsinki Station and they would assist in preparation of a reply.

3.  Mr. Friberg agreed that it would be worthwhile to cable the Station concerning points not covered by State in their inquiry. He suggested changes incorporated into the cable sent to Helsinki.

Document Number 780-340

FAIA Review on JUN 1976

Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/CI/R

SAME AS 716-838


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

See Sanitized File 4
Number 335
For sterile ...


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)