# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FID FILES REVIEWED 15 October 1969. Contained following info:
PICO Ramor, Reinaldo name contained in list of cubans traveling
to Latin America in document dated 12 Sept. 1967. PICO had requested
visa to travel to Honduras.from Guatemala. 15 day Honduran business
visa authorized 30 August 1967.

OTHER TRAVEL NOTED IN FILE:

| Travel FR/TO                                                                                                                                                                                            | Message sent FR/to   | Message Date    |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | --------------- |
| U.S./Brazil                                                                                                                                                                                             | Miami/Rio            | 14 August 1055  |
| REMARKS: Visa REquested                                                                                                                                                                                 |                      |                 |
| Chile/Venesuela                                                                                                                                                                                         | Caracas/San Juan     | 9 February 1965 |
| REMARKS: 15 day tourist visa authorized provided he has reentry visa or visa to continue to another country.                                                                                            |                      |                 |
| Vene.Chile                                                                                                                                                                                              | Santiago/Caracas     | 21 Jan. 1965    |
| REMARKS: 15 day temporary resident visa authorized. He is a delegate to Executive Council of Latin American Confederation of Christian Trade Unions to be held in Santiago first two weeks in February. |                      |                 |
| U.S./Venezuela                                                                                                                                                                                          | XMiami Caracas/Miami | 14 Oct. 1964    |
| REMARKS: 10 day tourist visa authorized at request ofXXNXXXNNXXEXX Confederaction Latino Americana de Sindicalistas Christianas provided bhey have re-entry or continuation visas.                      |                      |                 |
| U.S./Dom. Rep.                                                                                                                                                                                          | Santo Dom/Miami      | 1 Aug 1964      |
| Dominican Visa Authorized.                                                                                                                                                                              |                      |                 |
| U.S./Venezuela                                                                                                                                                                                          | Miami/Caracas        | 14 Jul 1964     |
| REMARKS: 15 Day tourist visa authorized provided he has re-entry in into U.S. at request of Latin American Christian Trade Union Confederate.                                                           |                      |                 |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Travel Fr. To.   Message Sent  Message Date:

U.S./Venezuela Caracas/Miami 10 March 1964

REMARKS: 1 Week tourist visa provided he has reentry to U.S.

U.S./Venexuela Caracas/Miami 2 March 1967

REMARKS 30 day tourist visa is authroized at the request of La Confederacion de Trabajodores de Venezuela.

Helen H. Stilson

15 Oct. 1969


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

BY AT 0025 Z

DISSEM OF 30 PER

ACTION CAS RID COPY

412

FILE OR R/Ann CSDO CA/PEG WH8.C.1/0A

SECRET 162245Z OCT 69 CITE CARACAS 3820

PRIORITY DIRECTOR:

DTDORIC JMDEVEL

REF: DIRECTOR 46526

1.  FIELD TRACES FIVE NO NEW INFORMATION SAVE FOR LOCAL ADDRESS AND TOUTED MEDIA CONNECTION PER WH/MIAMI 4639; OTHER GENERAL, NONDEROGATORY TIDBITS.

2.  REGRET DELAY DETERMINING AMICE-31 CURRENT STATUS REGARDING CLASC. PROBLEM HAS BEEN IN LOCATING HIM FIRST THROUGH AMCLEVE-15, BOTH BEING MUTUAL FRIENDS, TO DETERMINE IF HE HAS ACCESS AND STATUS CLASC AFFAIRS MERITING STATION DIRECT FOLLOW-UP. SUBJECT REPORTEDLY INVOLVED IN CHURCH FUND RAISING WORK AND SPENDS CONSIDERABLE TIME AWAY FROM HOME. WILL ADVISE SOONEST BUT GIVEN DIFFICULTIES AMCLEVE-15 HAS HAD MERELY IN REACHING SUBJECT SINCE RECEIPT HVCW-8792, HAVE DOUBTS ON PROSPECTS FOR MISSION.

3.  FILE: 221-284658, X-REF: 200-124-192/3.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

ORIG:

CAT:

DATE:

Barbara Bowen
CA/04
6352
15 October 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PER

CONF:

CAS

FILE. VR. RIAN CALPEG, WH& CHICA

To:

PRIORITY CARACAS

CITE DIRECTOR 46526

DEDORIC JADEVIL

REF A: EVCW-8792

REF B: DIR-42602

1. IN VIEW IMMINENCE QUITO MEETING CITED REF A, AND PROVIDED CARACAS DECISION IS AFFIRMATIVE ON FEISIBILITY OF HANDLING AMIC-31 REQUEST PRIORITY FIELD TRACES TO UPDATE A-31'S OA AS REQUESTED REF B.

2. FILE: 200-124-192/3.

![Signature of releasing officer]

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

![Signatures of coordinating officers]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT.

FROM:

CA/BI
H. Stilson 3 D 0119

EXTENSION
1254

DATE
30 September 1969

TO

DATE
OFFICERS INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom.
Draw 17 acress column efter each comment)

RECEIVED
MARWARIYO

1. FI/D
   7 B 44 Tube ES-1
   7 OCT 1969 all

2. CI/A
   15- 16 OCT 69 cel
- Prev green list was *operational.*

3. CA/B4
   3 D 0119 Tube EW-4
   H. Stilson

2-3: to attention in yours

nb file
Rios=201

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED

![photo of coca cola logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

a man
45/b/veraguide
frican
2 man 67
30 day parind, Vener an la lettraial of La
red of La co federacion de gestaysi ous
de Venigneda
novit Fron-to
Mascage tuw/to
mag Sale
Ran anks


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST
NAME CHECK

PICO Renon, Reinaldo

DATE 30 Sep. 1969

CHIEF. FI/D

ORIGINATING OFFICER
Helen H. Stilson
OFFICE DESIGNATOR CA/B4
ROOM, BUILDING 3 D 0119
EXTENSION R1254

TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)
FIRST TIME SUBMITTED
ADDITIONAL DATA
RECHECK FOR CURRENT

INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)
ESPIGNAGE OP CE ACTIVITY
OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE
OTHER

3.  DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
    21 July 1933, Regla, Havana

4.  CITIZENSHIP
    Cuban

5.  PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION
    Correspondent - Carcas
    Daily "EXCELSIOR"

6.  OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION
    Journalist

Former Chief CTC Youth Bureau
Officer in National Transport
Federation

LOCATION Cuba

DATES

Member 26 July Movement later fought clandestinely against Castro in Cuba

| DESCRIPTION | (HEIGHT) | (WEIGHT) | (EYES) | (HAIR) | (PACE) | (OTHER) |
| ----------- | -------- | -------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------- |
| 5'7"        | 155      | Brown    | Black  | Latin  |        |         |



Carmen

Father: Regino PICO; Mother: Maria de la Poz PICO

Please check for all available information.

INSTRUCTIONS: INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. SEE CSI 10-7
SEND BOTH SHEETS TO F1/D.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

TO: Stilcon

FROM: FI/D

SECRET

7 OCT 1969

A. XXX SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. F1/5 HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: FI/D

FROM:

NAME
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
2004, BUILDING
EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Barbara Bowen
CA/B4
6952
15 October 1969

SECRET

CAS
FILE, VR. RIAN, CA/PEG, WH 8, CITOP

SECRET

TO PRIORITY CARACAS 15 20 0220ct69 CITE DIRECTOR 46526
DTDORIE JMDEVIL
REF A: HVCW-8792
REF B: DIR 42602

1. IN VIEW IMMINENCE QUITO MEETING CITED REF A, AND
   PROVIDED CARACAS DECISION IS AFFIRMATIVE ON FEASIBILITY OF
   HANDLING AMICE-31 REQUEST PRIORITY FIELD TRACES TO UPDATE
   A-31'S OA AS REQUESTED REF B.

2. FILE: 200-124-192/3.

C/CA/B4
WI/3/
WH/CA

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

AMICE-31.

5831

PICO Ramon, Reinaldo 201-284658 C-85445

DPOB: 21 July 33, Regla, Havana wu!

PDA req 3 Jun 64 - WAVE 7146 - CA ops.

WH/SA/LOB/PA-PROP (Ott) DL-11 June 64

FLUTTERED ON PEQ Part I PRQ Part II

POA P. O. A. granted

POA CANCELED Field Advised

TO: Gr nriond

FROM:

SUBJECT:

DATE. 17 sept 69


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION 09/04

INFO VR. FILE CAZ, CA/PROP, CT/OA, WEG, WH/SA 8, 700P, WH7, FI

SECRET 252120Z

DIR INFO SAGO PALP CITE WAVE 7479

QRSNIPE PBRUMEN

REF DIR/79563

1. DETAILS AMICE-31 RECRUITMENT AND PRQ DATA BEING FORIARDED UFGA 19590. ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE AND SUBJ RESPONSIVE SEF OP.

2. PLAN HANNDLE A-31 INITIAL PERIOD PRIMARILY THROUGE AMICE-3 AND AMOT-20, AMICE OFFICIALS. IF A-31 GETS ONE OF REF TAPET POSITIONS, PROPOSE UNILATERAL HANDLING BY KUBARKER AND GRADUAL SEPARATION FROM AMICE EXCEPT NOMINAL COVER TIES.

3. A-3, LEFT 22 JAN PRIOR RECEIPT REF. DUE IMFORTANCE JARCE GUIDANCE (ESPECIALLY SINCE PRESS AND PROPAGANDA DEPT JOS DE LIKELY BE OFFERED AND ACCEPT DUE PAST AMICE/CLASC DEALISE;

BONGIRNO WILL CONTACT A-31 CARA WHERE LATTER STOPPING

DISCUSS CIV SHIPPING BOYCCIT, BONGIONO VILL PASS SES

DETEXT PROP JOB NOT PRODUCTIVE OR INFLUENTIAL.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

ORIG: Willier Lrown/ser
UNIT CA/B4
EXT 6761
DATE 22 January 1965

## MESSAGE FORM 35

SECRET

*   INDEX
*   NO INDEX
*   FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-284658

ROUTING
1.
2.
3.
4.
5
6
7
8

*   RETURN TO BRANCH
*   FLE RID

TO: JMWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/ICPIPIT

ROM. DIRECTOR.

EONE: CA/04
INFO VR, FILE, CA2, WH7, DDP, WH/SA8, WEG, W/OA, FI, FILINT2

TO: WAVE

QRSNIPE PBRUMEN

REF: DIR 79560
INFO SAGO PALP

CITE DIR
79561-

![image of abstract and index stamps]

IDEN: ENRIQUE VILLARREA (CUBAN)

END OF MESSAGE

WE/PO/D

VISA/MB JOst coordinated in draft

C/CA

DC/WH/SA

RI COPY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# MESSAGE FORM 34

ORG. William Brown/ser
UNIT CA/34
EXT. 6761
DATE 12 January 1965

TO JYWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/LCPIPIT

FROM DIRECTOR
CONF. CA/04 INFO VR, FILE, CH2, WH7, DOP, WH/SAS, WE6) CIHOA, FI, FILINI 2.

TO WAVE INFO SAGO PALP
QRSNIPS PBRUMEN
REF: WAVE 7250 (IN 62274) NOT SENT PALP

1. AGREE IN PRINCIPLE OPS USE AMICE-31 PER REF. REQUEST ASSESSMENT A-31, METHOD OF
   HANDLING, AND DEGRES HE RESPONSIVE. POA NOW BEING REINSTATED AND REQUEST STA FORWARD
   PRQ 1 AND 11 SOONEST.

2. IN VIEW NATURE CLASC EXEC MTG DO NOT EXPECT A-31 TO BE IN POSITION INFLUENCE
   THIS EVENT. FUTURE VALUE WILL DEPEND ON CLASC POSITION OBTAINED. SUGGEST FOLLOWING
   CLASC TARGETS AS KEY SECTORS FOR PENETRATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT HEADED BY DI PACCE;
   OFFICE.OF SEC GEN MASPERO; OFFICE OF PRES GOLDSACK. FYI SACO NOW HAS ΓΕΝΣΤΡΑΤΙΟΝ IN
   CLASC HQS PRESS AND PROFAGANDA DEPI THROUGH FUBIAS-7 (IDER) AND DO NOT WISH DUPLICATE
   THIS CHANNEL. DEFER TO SACO FOR ADDITIONAL COMENTS A-31 USE.

3. IN A-31 BRIEFINGS DO NOT INDICATE SCOPE KUBARK EXTEREST AND PROGRAMS RE CLASC.

4. REQUEST A-31 DEBRIEFING SAGO MTG. BE FORWARDED WEEN OFTAINED.

|     |         |                |
| --- | ------- | -------------- |
| OB  | SS      | SB             |
| 195 | PERS AR | END OF MESSAGY |
| BI  | 100 CA  |                |
| 17  | SEC 25  |                |

/FO/B
HUSA/B

DC/MIL/SA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

ORIG: William Brown/scr
UNIT: CA/34
EXT: 6761
DATE: 22 January 1965

MESSAGE FORM 34
SECRET
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO 201-264658

TO: JMSWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/ICPIPIT
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: CA/04 INFO VR, FILE, CA 2, WH7, DOP, WH/SA8, WE6, C/OA, FI, FILINT2

TO: WAVE INFO: SAGO PALP CITE DIR: 79561
QASHIPS PERUMEN
REF: DIR 79560

IDEN: ENRIQUE VILLARREA (CUBAN)

END OF MESSAGE


MOB INT SS SB
IOS PERS AR
EOB RFTS LOA BA
CI SL





WE/FO/B
WILDA/KO J Ott. coordinated in draft

DC/WH/SA

C/CA

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,
WH/SA/IOS - W. Ullery

NUMBER
201 - 284658

SUBJECT
PICO Ramon, Reinaldo

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated
22 January 1965 crm

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of his Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

POA reinstated until 26 April 1965 to allow for submission of PRQ Part I and PRQ Part II on Subject per WH/SA/IOS request of 22 January 1965.

201-284658

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not-later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

![signature]

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

26 January 1965

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

22 January 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, ____

SUBJECT: Reinaldo PICO Ramon
201-284658
C-85445

Please reinstate Subject's POA for 60 days.

A PEQ Part I and II was requested from the Field on 22 January 1965 via cable.

John L. Hert
Deputy Chief, WH(SA)

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - WII/SA/IOS
1 - 201-284658


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

47 SECRET

![table with information about PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED]

FROM JM WAVE

ACTION CA104

ADVANCE COPY UNIT TIME BY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED

INFO VR. FILE WAISA 8, DOP, WH7, CA2, SI, CI/OPS, FI, CI/15 2

SECRET 182223Z

DIR INFO SAGO CITE WAVE 7251 19 JAN 65 IN 62266

DIDORIC ZRGAMIN PBRUMEN

REF WAVE 7250 (IN 62274)

IDEN: REINALDO (PICO) RAMON.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION SA/0 4

INFO VR. FILE, WH/SA 8, DDP, WH 7, CAZ, CI, CILOPS, FI, RIAN, GI/le2

SECRET 182223Z

DIR INFO SAGO CITE WAVE 7250

DIDORIC ZRGAMIN PORUMEN

REF DIR 76863 +

1. PAST SEVERAL MONTHS CLASC PROMISING HIRE AMICERS AFTER SOLUTION BUDGETARY PROBLEMS PRESUMALBY AT NEXT EXEC COMMITTEE MEETING. CLASC ALSO INDICATED CERTAIN AMICERS INCLUDING IDEN

(ASSIGNED AMICE-31) WELCOME ABOARD NOW IN ANTICIPATION SALARY FUNDS WITHIN FEW MONTHS.

2. PLAN HAVE A-31 ACCEPT OFFER AND ALSO PERSONAL INVITATION ATTEND CLASC EXEC COMMITTEE MEETING SAGO. A-13 WILL BE INSTRUCTED PENETRATE CLASC FOR JOINT AMICE/KUBARK PURPOSES:

A. REPORT DETAILS CLASC STRUCTURE, BIODATA AND INTER-RELATIONSHIPS KEY PERSONNEL.

3. ASSESS EXTENT SUCCESS COMMUNIST FAR LEFEIST ATTEMPTS TRUN CLASC AGAINST U.S. THEREBY UNDERMINING HEMISPHERIC ANTI-CASTRO OSOLIDARITY.

C. MANEUVER INTO POSITION SPOT AND EXPOSE OR NEGATE ADVERSE INFLUENCES AND BRING CLASC MORE IN LINE MUTUAL GOALS.

3. A-31 ETD 21 JAN. INDEX.

* R6 OP TO UNDERMINE MASPERO STATURE IN CLASC, AND THUS SECRET SET STAGE FOR SECRET HIS REPLACEMENT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 15 January 1965 jb

MEMORANDUM FOR: CHIEF, WH/SA/IOS

ATTENTION: Wendell Ullery

C# 201-284658

The file on PICO Ramon, Reinaldo is cancelled and closed in CI/QA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

> WAVE 7146
> 60 day reinstatement
> requested on 22 Jan 65

201-284658

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/OA.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

SECRET

FORM 691 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
12.43
(*)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

Chief, WM

Chief of Station, JMSAVE

TYPIC/ANSAFE

Request for HQ Intercession to Facilitate Entry of Identity A

AR: See Paragraph below

1. Identity A, who is the mother of AMICE/31, a Station asset, has been twice denied permission to enter the United States as a refugee from Cuba. The local ODURGE office has stated that Identity A has been placed on a denied admissions list because of information supplied by ODACID.

2. According to AMICE/31, Identity A applied for admission to the United States with her daughters, Identities B and C. Identities B and C received the necessary authorization on 24 February 1966 from the Swiss Embassy and arrived in the United States by air on 28 February.

3. Identity A was the wife of Identity D, a member of the Cuban Communist Party for some twenty years, at the time of her first application to leave Cuba. Identity D died in October of 1965 and according to AMICE/31 lost his Communist Party membership card about a year prior to his death. According to AMICE/31, Identity A has never joined or been a member of the Communist Party although there is a possibility that her husband may have placed her name on the membership lists, AMICE/31 also stated that she has long been a practicing Catholic and that she is very anti-Communist. Sent as separate cover attachments are the statements from the Bishop of Cienfuegos and the Assistant Bishop of Havana testifying to her good character and to her standing as a practicing Catholic.

- Continued -

Attachments:

1. Identities, MSC

2. Letters, LIC

Distribution:

1 - WH/C/W/Attn HSC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

TEGA 3-2881

4. It is requested that Headquarters contact the appropriate ODACID and GOURSE officials for the purpose of removing Identity A's name from the denied admissions list since her close connection with a member of the Cuban Communist Party, which presumably was the basis of the derogatory information, is no longer a fact.

Philip G. ELMARD

A. Marias de las Pay RAMON Rodrigung de PICO

Colles Fonte No. 506 kepti stavine, Con

H

DOB: 111 no. 1912

PUBL

B. Regres Pico Salierite

C. Tomas Pico Ramon

D Milagros Pico Ramon


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

FROM:
Chief, WHd

SUBJECT:
TYPIC/OPERATIONAL
AMICE/31

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: UFGA-19701

Subject was granted an OA on 4 February 1966.


Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - JMWAVE



UPCH-5818 ES COPY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 9 Feb 66

NUMBER: 201-284658

ORIGINATING:

OFFICE: WH/C/RR/OS

ORIGINATOR: W. J. Mery

TYPIST: Jin

COORDINATING APPROVALS

WH/C/RR/OS 9 Feb 66
J. Houghton

WH/C/CA/PP
S. Chacocas

R. Ortman (draft)

APPROVING AUTHORITY

A. Teohwd
John

---

CROSS REFERENCE TO

1 - WH/C,/RR/OS

1 - WH/C/ESEC

1 - 201-284658



DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# DISPATCH

CONFIDENTIAL

TO: Chief, EE

INFO: Chief, EE/SA

FROM: COS, Brussels

SUBJECT: Cuban Travel

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: REF: DBBT-2238, 4 August 1965

Attached is Cuban travel information received from NIGALE during August.

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

3 - Chief, EE (w/att)

1 - Chief, EE/SA (w/o att)

2 - Brussels (w/o att)

Diana G. WIGZELL

![Processed by FOD Stamp]

201-284658

DATE: 3 September 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: DBBT-2275

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

HQS FILE NUMBER: PP-5231


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# AME SADE DE BELGIQUE A SANTIAG DU CHILI

VAN BELGIE TE
da Bélgica a

Modèle 18

# BULLETIN DE RENSEIGNEMENTS

POUR L'OBTENTION D'UN VISA DE PASSEPORT

# STAAT VAN INLICHTINGEN

TOT HET BEKOMEN VAN EEN PASPOORTVISUM

# FORMULARIO DE INFORMES

PARA OBTENER LA VISACION DE UN PASAPORTE

Nature et durée du visa:
Aard en duur van het visum:
Naturaleza y duracion de is visacion:

Nom (1):
PICO RAMON
Noam:
Apellido:

Prenoms: Reinalda
Voornamen:
Nombres:

Lieu el date de naissance: L. Havane, Cuba, 21-7-1933
Ploats en datum van geboorte:
Lugar y fecha de nacimiento:

Nationalité d'origine: cubaine
Oorspronkelijke nationalitest:
Nacionalidad de origen:

Nationalité actuelle: cubaine
Huidige nationaliteit:
Nacionalidad actual:

Etat civil (celibataire, marié, veuf, divorcé): célibataire
Burgerlijke staat (ongehuwd, gehuwd, weduwnaar, weduwe, gescheiden):
Estado civil (soltero, casado, viudo, divort ado):

Nom du pere:
Regino PICO
Naam van de vader:
Nombre del podre:

në à: La Havane le: 17-7-1909
geboren te:
nacido en:

Nom de la mere: aria de la Paz RAMON
Maam van de moeder:
Nombre y apelice de la modre:

née à: Lima, Pérou le: 14-11-1912
geboren to:
nocida en:

Voyage-t-il (elle) seul(e)?: oui
Reist hij (zij) alleen?:
Viaja sola(la)?:

Identite
de la personne qui
sollicite le visa:
(Grande Caractères)

Identiteit
van de persoon
die het visum aanvraagt:
(Blokletters)

Identidad del (de la)
solicitante
(letra de imprenta)

ME65 2 412

Identité
du conjoint:
(Grands
Caractères)

Identiteit van
de echtgenoot
of echtgenote:
(Blokletters)

Identidad
del cónyuge
(Retra de imprenta)

Epoux ou épouse
veuf ou veuve,
divorcé
ou divorcee de

Photographie du conjoint
sil accompagne
(A attacher)

![photo of the conjoint]

Foto
van de echtgenoot
(de pehtgenote)
ladien bij zij medereiat
(vesthechten)

Echtgenoot
of echtgenote
of weduwe
Weduwnaar
geschorden ven

Condi
* casada con,
  moto,
  direciono
  *da de

Nom (1):
Noam:
Apellido:

Prenoms:
Voornamen:
Nombres:

Lieu et date de naissance:
Ploats en datum van geboorte:
Lugar v echo de nacimiento:

Nationalité d'origine:
Oorspronkelijke nationaliteit:
Nacionalidad de origen

Nationalite actuel.e:
Huidige nationatiteir:
Nacional dad actuci

Date de mariage
Datum van het huwelijk

Nom da pers
(Naam van de vader

Nentre del padre

gebaren te
nacico en

Nom de iu mire
Noom ren de moeder
Nimere, cetinu sai mare

.boren ta

(Ethart)

(1) inscrire en tout dans tous d'une épouse ou d'une veuve ou
salu dicmat te non de jeune fille

Fir 201-
> 284658


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# 3645 S.W. 128th MIAMI, Florida, E.U.

Profession :

Gewoon beroep :

Protefion hat :

commerçant

Durée du séjour en Belgique :

Duur van het verblijf in Belgie :

Tempo de permanecer en Belgica : 10 jours

Motif étant au voyage : assister au Conseil No C.I.S.C.

Juiste reden ven de reis :

Finallad exaeto ce viaje

Le depart esti ti determine par une cause politique, raciale a ideologique redenen?

Vindt het vertres pleats com politiche, rossenpolitieke of ideologische redenen? : mon

Es la sandgra rog a гecnu

Séjourmerez-vous en Belmou comur pragte milititque Motife?

Zult U in Belgie verblijven als politică vluchteling? Redemen? non

Permanecera en Fergico en calidad de telugioso poltico indicar los motivos

Mode de transport utilise :

Gebruikt vervoermiddel : avion

Modo de transavre que se uso

Date d'entree en Belgique et adresse complete pendant la durée du séjour

Datum van contomst in Belgie en volledig odree tijdens het verblijt 12 octobre 1965

Fecha de enraad en fe'gica y direccion compiera en ei tempo de permanencia en Belgica

76, Boulevard Poincaré, Bruxelles

Nom, prenoms, adresses compie.es des personnes à visiter

Naam, voornamen, volledig adres der te besoeken personen

Apellido, nombres direccion comp'eta de los personas que se visitarón

Auguste VANISTENDAEL, 76, Boulevard Poincaré, Bruxelles

Monseigneur J. CARDYN

Indication de l'autorite qui a detivre le passeport, date, numero el durre et validité

Aanduiding der overheid die het paspoort heett afgeleverd, dotum, nummer en geldigheids-
dour

Indicar la répartición que ha extendido el pasaporte, fecha, numero y termino de validez

La Havane Cuba, 16-10-243-27730.

Prenoms et age Ers enturies qui accompagnent

Voornamen en leeftijd der kinderen die medurersen

Nombres v edad de los hijos que lo acompañan

References (nom et adresse des personnes citées

Raferenties (naam en adres der vermelde personen)

Referencias (nombre y direccion de las personas que cito)

Auguste VALMISTA, Jes. nirali Galax

Monseigneur Joseph CARDYN, assesseur de la

Faut a Santiago-du-inili le 11 août 195.

Gedaan te

Extendido en el

![Signature du requérant]

CONSIDERATIONS ET AVIS DE L'AGENT DIPLOMATIQUE ET CONSULAIRE

BESCHOUWINGEN EN ADVIES VAN DE DIPLOMATIEKE OF CONSULAIRE AMBTENAAR

MINISTERE DE LA JUSTICE

Ministoria von Justitie

Direction Genérale

Algemene Directie

Administration

de la Police dos Etrengers

Bosna

der Vroomde.inganpolitie

![Ministry of Justice Logo]

A

Te

Renvoud o

Tereggevendes noer

Decision

Beslissing

Brazelles, le

Brasssi, de

le

Au nom du Mimsire,

Namens de Minister,

Pour Administration de la Police des Airangers

Vear het Bestuur der Vreemdalingespote. 19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

# PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,

-WH/e/FR/OA - W. Ullery

WiH/C/CA/PP

NUMBER

201-284658

SUBJECT

AMICE/31

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

cre

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

Subject's PQA is herewith extended until 30 September 1965 to allow additional time for the completion of the OA investigation.

![signature]

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested If use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

Edward P. Brown

APPROVAL

201-284658

CI/OPERATIONAL APIROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

DATE

29 June 1965

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 3 REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM

VMWAVE

ACTION

WH/C 8

INFO

VR. FILE WA 7:00P TCHY, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CAI04,5006

SECRET 0917362

SAGO INFO DIR CITE WAVE 0532

TYPIC MHVIPER

REF. SAGO 9006(N30977)

9 Apr 65 IN 42032

PREPARATORY SAGO TRIP AMICE-31 CABLED WENCESLAO MORENO AMICE

COLLECTING FUNDS AMONG CUBAN EXILES FRO CHILEAN EARTHQUAKE VICTIMS

AS DONATION PROPER AUTHORITIES THROUGH HIS FEDERATION. MORENO

REPLIED WITH GRATITUDE. FUND APPEAL WILL NOTE 24-HOUR WORK

STOPPAGE BY CHILEAN PORT WORKERS 24 FEB IN CONNECTION BOYCOTT

MOVEMENT. HOPEFULLY AMICE WILL COLLECT SEVERAL HUNDRED DOLLARS

WHICH WAVE MAY SUPPLEMENT TO ASSURE GOOD PUBLICITY ON A-31 ARRIVAL

SAGO. WILL ADVISE ETA WHEN FIRM.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

201-28465

9 april 1965


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

16 February 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT : AMICE/31
201-284658

Attached herewith are two copies of Subject's PRQ Part I and one copy of a PRQ Part II. An OA is requested.

John L. Hart
Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee w/att.
1 - WH/SA/IOS
1 - 201-284658

201-284658


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

201 No. 234658

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, W/G/AR/CA Wendell Ullery
Wet/C/CA/PP

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of

ANMICE/31, for the purpose specified in your request
dated 16 February 1965

![FMF & file]

Ref:
UFGA-19701

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/s/ Edward P. Brown
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 4 February 1966 jab

Distriontion:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

SECRET

![Form 124 and other information]

761-284658

(1)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

SECRET 1515432 JUNE 68 CITE CARACAS 9800.

DIRECTOR INFO JMAVE

JMDEVIL AMICE

REF JMWAVE 2626 (FN 24511)

5 JUN 68 IN 25149

STATION CARACAS ESTIMATES AMICE-31 W LULD REQUIRE $500 PER MONTH PLUS HOUSING AND EDUCATION ALLOWANCES OVER AND ABOVE JMDEVIL OFFER IN ORDER ENABLE HIM LIVE EVEN MODESTLY HERE. ATTEMPTING COVER MONETARY SUPPLEMENT THIS MAGNITUDE COULD BE DIFFICULT. WHILE WE DO HAVE INTEREST IN MONITORING JMDEVIL, IT IS RELATIVELY LOW PRIORITY IN TERMS LOCAL REQUIREMENTS AND STATION WILL TAKE IT ON ONLY IF HQS BELIEVES IT CONSTITUTES OVER-RIDING NATIONAL PRIORITY. PERHAPS EVEN MORE IMPORTANT THAN COSTS AND COVER CONSIDERATIONS, HOWEVER, IS BALPA.

SECRET

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC
PERSON, UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET
(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF CNS.COM PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

BY:
AT

DISSEM BY
ACTION
RIO COPY
FILE:
WHS, CMS, CP/PEE, OF/PROP CI

SECRET 042023Z JUN 68 CITE JMWAVE 2626
4 Jun 68 IN 24511
CARACAS DIRECTOR/INFO JMCOBRA
JMDEVIL AMICE

1. DURING NINTH CONGRESS IN SANTO DOMINGO EMILIO
   MASPERO RENEWED AN OFFER TO AMICE-31 OF A POSITION IN THE
   CLASC OFFICES IN CARACAS AT A SALARY OF $400 PER MONTH
   AND ONE WAY AIR FARE. AMICE-31 TOLD MASPERO THAT SALARY
   WAS NOT ENOUGH IN VIEW HIGH COST OF LIVING IN CARACAS BUT
   THAT HE WOULD THINK IT OVER AND GIVE ANSWER BY EARLY JUNE.

2. IT IS NOT CLEAR JUST WHAT AMICE-31 FUNCTION AND
   RESPONSIBILITY WOULD BE BUT THIS SEEMS TO PRESENT WOFIRM
   AND OPPORTUNITY TO MONITOR CLOSELY CLASC PLANNING AND DAY
   TO DAY ACTIVITIES. REQUEST ADDEES COMMENT ON OPERATIONAL
   NEED AND POSSIBILITY OF STATION CARACAS OFFERING AMCIE-31
   SOME FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE IN MOVING FAMILY TO CARACAS
   AND SOME REGULAR SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME IF AND WHEN HE IN
   PLACE.

SECRET
BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET 241524Z MAY 63 CITE SANTO DOMINGO 5604

DIRECTOR, JMSAVE, BUENOS AIRES INFO, MONTEVIDEO, LA PAZ

DTDORIC JNDEVIL

REF: BUENOS AIRES 0663/(H5743)

1. STATION INITIATED CONTACT WITH AMICE-31 ON 24 MAY FOR SHORT DEBRIEFING. DUE SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS NO ADDITIONAL CONTACT TO BE MADE. AMICE-ZI TO PROVIDE COMPLETE DOCUMENTATION FROM CLASC EVENTS ON ARRIVAL JMWAVE 27 MAY.

2. MOST SIGNIFICANT ASPECT MEETINGS ACCORDING AMICE-31 COORDINATED EFFORT COMMENCING JUNE, WHICH FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY INTERNATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION (ILO), TO DEMAND RELEASE ALL LABOR AND POLITICAL PRISONERS IN LATIN AMERICA. CLASC AL-READY SENT CABLE TO BARRIENTOS IN BOLIVIA DECRYING HIS TREATMENT ORGANIZED LABOR. THESE EFFORTS TO CONTINUE DURING ENTIRE ANNIVERSARY YEAR OF ILO AND PER AMICE-31 COULD WELL BE SOURCE OF DISCOMFORT TO MAJORITY LATIN GOVERNMENTS.

3. SINGLE CENTRAL OF LABOR DISCUSSED AT MEETINGS BUT NOT YET FIRMED UP. PERMANENT COMMITTEE FOR CENTRAL TO BE ESTABLISHED, PROBABLY IN CARACAS WITH PRATAS OF URUGUAY AS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

PAGE 2 SANTO DOMINGO 5604 SECRET

HEAD. MASPERO LIKELY TO BE NAMED AS SECRETARY GENERAL FOR
COMMITTEE. AMICE-31 SAID THAT INCLUSION COMMUNISTS IN
CENTRAL NOT BROACHED AND HE DOES NOT BELIEVE IT LIKELY IN
LIGHT STRONG ATTACK MADE BY MASPERO AGAINST COMMUNISTS DURING
SESSIONS, AT ANY RATE, EMPLEMENTATION THIS CONCEPT DOES NOT
APPEAR IMMINENT.

4. AMICE-31 COMMENTED THAT MOST OUTSPOKEN OPPONENTS
   OF.U.S. DURING GATHERINGS HAVE BEEN RAIMUNDO ONGARO OF
   ARGENTINA AND GALLO OF URUGUAY: HOWEVER, BASIC TENOR ENTIRE
   GROUP STRONGLY ANTI-US.

5. FOR BUENCS AIRES: POUCHING TAPE 19 MAY TV SHOW IN
   WHICH ONGARO VIOLENTLY ATTACKED U.S. WHILE PRAISING
   CUBA.

SECRET

BT

*BEING SUCD

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

## DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT:

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OF SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

DATE
SOURCE (CRYPTONYM)
DATE OF INFO.
EVALUATION
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO TN'S FILE
TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

PICO RAMON, REINALDO
201-284658
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
200-124-052
HDCA-07090
15 MAY 68
P10
DELEGATE TO IX CLASC COUNCIL CELEBRATED IN
SANTO DOMINGO FROM 13-17 MAY 1968

R 6806030162

FILE IN 201.35-46.58

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

CABLE SECRETARIA! DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIPIL.C

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-284658

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

1
6

2
7

3
8

4
9

5
10

BY:
AT:

DISSEM BY:
ACTION:
PER:
KYBAT
X-REF TO FILE NO:
FILE RID RET TO COG/PP BRANCH DESTROY.G.

INFO:
FILE:
C/WH 6, C/C1, C/F12

SECRET 101604Z MAY' 68 CITE JMWAVE 2352

PRIORITY SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR

PBRUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE 10 MAY 68 IN 08270

REFERENCE: SANTO DOMINGO 5478 (005810)

AMICE-31 (IDEN) ETA SANTO DOMINGO 1715 HOURS
(LOCAL) DOMINICANA FLIGHT NO. 301 ON 11 MAY.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
ASGOMIUNIT NOTICILO
CLASS FIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COFES I FOLOG AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

# SECRET
(When Filed)

REPPOCOCMON OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
INDEX YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO

DISSEM BY 8 PER TYPAT
FILE RIO RET TO BRANCH DESTROY SIG
ACTION RICOPT
INFO FILE: C/WH6, C/C1, C/FLZ

SECRET 101605Z MAY 68 CITE JMWAVE 2353.

PRIORITY SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR

10 MAY 68 08272

PARUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 2352(408270)

IDEN: REINALDO PICO.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

1

2

3

4

5

6

7

8

9

10

DISSEM

ACTION

RIO COPY

INFO

DESTROY SIG

SECRET 2721042 MAY 68 CITE SANTO DOMINGO 5478

7 MAY 68 LN 05810

JAVE INFO DIRECTOR

PERUMEN JADEVIL AMICE

REF: A. SANTO DOMINGO 5655(59355)

B. JNWAVE 2316(1705038)

1. INSTRUCT AMICE/31 CALL 94141 EXTENTION 332 AND ASK FOR JOSE. MEETING TO TAKE PLACE ONE HOUR BEFORE TIME MENTIONED ON TELEPHONE AT INTERSECTION GEORGE WASHINGTON AVENUE, WHICH PARALLELS SEA, AND PALO HINCADO. LARGE OBELISK IN MIDDLE GEORGE WASHINGTON AT THIS INTERSECTION. CASE OFFICER TO PICK UP AMICE/31 IN FADED MAROON AMERICAN RAMBLER WITH PRIVATE PLATES. HAVE AMICE/31 CARRY COPY "EL CARIBE", LOCAL MORNING DAILY, IN LEFT HAND.

2. PLS PROVIDE IDENTITY AMICE/31.

SECRET

ST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
REF TO FILE NO.

SECRET 262217Z MAY SS CITE JMWAVE 2309
SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR, CARACAS

PORUMEN JMDEVIL AMOCE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 1345

1. AMICE-31 REPORTS THAT FOLLOWING CUBAN EXILES INVITED ATTEND NINTH CLASC CONSEJC IN SANTO DOMINGO:

REINALDO PICO-SECRETARY GENERAL OF CLASC AFFILIATE
URGANIZACION REVOLUCIONARIA DE TRANSPORTE (ORT) AND ALSO
REPRESENTING MIAMI-BASED SOLIDARIDAD DE TRABAJADORES
CUBANOS (STS). OFFICIAL DELEGATE WITH RIGHT TO FULL PAR-

TICIPATION AND VOTE.

NELSON (DIAZ) FERNANDEZ-SECRETARY GENERAL OF STC.

OFFICIAL DELEGATE WITH RIGHT TO FULL PARTICIPATION AND VOTE.

JUAN A. WOODS-FORMER REPRESENTATIVE OF JUVENTUD

TERERA CATOLICA (JOC) NOV RESIDING NEW YORK. FULL PARTICI-

PATION AND VOTE.

ALBERIO CAO-FORMER JOC MEMBER NOW RESIDING SANTO
DOMINGO. TO ATTEND AS FRATERNAL DELEGATE ONLY. NO VOTE.

RAMON (GARCIA) TOME--FORMER JOC MEMBER NOW RESIDING
PUERTO RICO. NO VOTE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

PAGE-2 JMWAVE 2309 SECRET

LAZAKO MIRANDA-FORMER JOC MEMBER NOW RESIDING
NEW YORK. NO VOTE.

EDUARDO (GARCIA) MAURE-ASSISTANT SECRETARY GENERAL
OF CLASC. RIGHT HAND MAN OF EMILIO MASPERO.

CARLOS MORIS-MEMBER OF CLASC EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

JOSE DE JESUS PLANAS-MEMBER OF CLASC EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE. CLASC DIRECTOR OF WORKER EDUCATION.

2. THE THREE MEMBERS OF CLASC EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE WILL
   HAVE RIGHT TO FULL PARTICIPATION BUT NO VOTE. AMICE-31
   SAYS THAT GARCIA AND MORIS ARE UNCONDITIONAL SUPPORTERS
   OF EMILIO DASPERO EUT THAT PLANAS WILL LIKELY REMAIN
   ALLOF FROM DEBATE. ANICE-31 REPORTS THAT OTHER CUBANS
   AMONG DELEGATES TEND TO BE ANTI-MASPERO AND THAT THEIR
   FASIC CRIENTATION IS ANTI-CASTRO AND ANTI-COMMUNIST. THEIR
   MAIN CONCERN WILL BE THAT CUBAN EXILES ARE NOT UNDERCUT
   EY ANY CLASC DEAL WITH LA COMMUNIST UNIONS.

3. AMICE-31 FURTHER REPORTS THAT ALL OF THE ABOVE
   NAMED CUBANS WILL CAUCUS IN SANTO DOMINGO IN EFFORT FIND
   COMMON BASIS FOR PRESENTING PROGRAM TO CLASC ON BEHALF ALL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
# SECRET

PAGE-2 JNWAVE 2529 SECRET

CUBAN EXILES. THIS TO INCLUDE OPPOSITION TO IDEA OF FRENTE
SINDICAL LATIONS AMERICANO. CHAIRMAN OF THE CAUCUS WILL
PROBABLY BE PLASAS WHO HIGHLY REGARDED AND RESPECTED BY
CARCIA MAURE AND MORIS. AMICE-31 DOUBTS POSSIBILITY OF
UNANIMITY BUT THINKS THAT ANTI-MASPERO CUBAN CONTINGENT
CAN CARRY THE DAY IN THE CAUCUS. AMICE-31 BELIEVES THAT
PICO WILL CONTROL VOTES OF DIAZ AND WOODS AND THAT CAO,
GARCIA TOVE AND MIRANDA WILL PROBALY GO ALONG WITH THEM.
THEY ALSO COUNT ON AT LEAST TACIT SUPPORT FROM PLANAS WHO
VERY ANTI-COMMUNIST.

4. JMWAVE STATION TRACES AS FOLLOWS:

ALBERTO CAJ-PROBALY IDENTICAL WITH ALBERTO (CAO)
Herrera, CUBAN NEGRO WHO ACCORDING AMBLESS-DEBRIEFING
REPORT WAS LAST PRESIDENT OF JOC IN CUS. MEMBER OF
CATHOLIC LEFT WHO SELECTED TO GO TO ICFTU CONFERENCE IN
VIENNA, JULY 1963. CALLED EXPERT IN YOUTH PROBLEMS AND
"NICE PERSON WITH PRINCIPLES AND GOOD FAITH".

NELSON (DIAZ) FERNANDEZ-AMOT REPORT OF JULY 1961
LISTS SUBJECT AS INFORMER AND VOLUNTARY COLLABORATOR WITH
CASTRO REGIME. ARAZZ-1 REPORTS OF JULY 1966 LIST SUBJECT

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

PAGE-4 JMWAVE 2309 SECRET

AS MEMBER OF LEFTIST CUBAN EXILE GROUP CALLED "NUEVA
GENERACION". SOME AMONG GROUP ARE ANTI-U.S., ACCORDING
TO AMICE-31.

LAZARO MIRANDA-WORKED WITH MANUEL ARTIME IN
SIERRA MAESTRA ACCORDING TO REPORT DATED MAY 1960. WELL
THOUGHT OF BY ARTIME. NO TRACES ON JUAN A. WOODS OR
RAMON (GARCIA) TOME.

SECRET

BI

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
-SECRET
(When Filed in!)

TOTAL COPIES: 3
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY:

1
6
2
7
3
8
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
9
ADVANCE COPY: ISSUED SLOTTED
INDEX: YES NO
5
10
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
BY: 3 AT: 2
X-REF TO FILE NO

DISSEM BY: PER:
FILE RID RET TO: BRANCH: DESTROY SIG:
ACTION:
INFO: WH8. c.alaps alisz, alas
FILE: G. FINT. CAS, CAL/PROP, mps/B62

SECRET 062117Z MAY 68 CITE JMWAVE 2310
SANTO DOMINGO INFO DIRECTOR, CARACAS
PBRUMEN JMDEVIL AMICE
REFERENCES: A. JMWAVE 2309 (~ 05435)
B. SANTO DOMINGO 5099 (~ 59355).

1. AMICE-31 WILL ATTEND CLASC CONSEJO BEGINNING 13 MAY IN SANTO DOMINGO. WILL FORWARD ETA WHEN TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS FIRM.

2. IT IS AMICE-31 UNDERSTANDING THAT ALL DELEGATES TO BE HOUSED TOGETHER IN INFA. IF SO, THIS FACT, COUPLED WITH PR OSABILITY THAT SEVERAL PBRUMEN EXILES WILL TRAVEL AND STICK TOGETHER (SEE REFERENCE A), MAKES IT DIFFICULT LAY ON CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS FROM THIS END. REQUEST THAT SANTO DOMINGO STATION PROVIDE TELEPHONE NUMBER AND NAME BY MEANS WHICH AMICE-31 CAN INITIATE CONTACT. AMICE-31 WILL GIVE HIS NAME SAYING HIS "AMIGO DE MAIRO EN MIAMI". FYI AMICE 31 SPEAKS NO ENGLISH.

3. AMICE 31 BELIEVES THERE WILL BE NO PROBLEM IN EXPLAIN- ING SOURCE OF FUNDS FOR TRAVEL. EACH CLASC AFFILIATE RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCING DELEGATE TRAVEL AND IN PRACTICE THIS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
# SECRET
(When filled in)
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP I
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX
YES NO
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
1
6
2
7
3
8
4
9
5
10
BY
AT
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
DISSEM BY:
PER
FILE RID RET TO
BRANCH
DESTROY BIG
ACTION
INFO
AD COPY
FILE.
VR.

PAGE-2 JMWAVE 2310 SECRET
MEANS THAT HERE EACH DELEGATE IS MAKING HIS OWN PRIVATE COLLECTION AMONG FRIENDS, COLLEAGUES, AND CONCERNED PERUMEN EXILES. JMWAVE PLANS TO PROVIDE AMICE-31 WITH $250 TO INCLUDE ROUND TRIP TRAVEL AND ALL EXPENSES.

SECRET
BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET

FROM JMWAVE

ACTION CA/04

INFO VR. FILE CAZ, GA/PROP, CT/OA, WEG, WH/SA 8, DOP WHT, FI

SECRET 2521202

DIR INFO SAGO PALP CITE WAVE 7479

QR SNIPE PBRUMEN

REF DIR 79560

1. DETAILS AMICE-31 RECRUITMENT AND PRQ DATA BEING FORWARDED UFGA 19590. ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE AND SUBJ RESPONSIVE REF OP.

2. PLAN HANNDLE A-31 INITIAL PERIOD PRIMARILY THROUGH AMICE-3 AND AMOT-20, AMICE OFFICIALS. IF A-31 GETS ONE OF REF TARGET POSITIONS, PROPOSE UNILATERAL HANDLING BY KUBARKER AND GRADUAL SEPARATION FROM AMICE EXCEPT NOMINAL COVER TIES.

3. A-31 LEFT 22 JAN PRIOR RECEIPT REF. DUE INFORTANCE TARCE!

GUIDANCE (ESPECIALLY SINCE PRESS AND PROPAGANDA DEPT JOR ONE HE MOSS LIKELY BE OFFERED AND ACCEPT DUE PAST AMICE/CLASC DEALING;

BONGIRNO VILL CONTACT A-31 CARA WHERE LATTER STOPPING EN POLTE S430

DISCUSS CIV SHIPPING BOYCCIT. SONGIRNO WILL PASS RES INSTRUCTIONS

DETEXT PROP JOB NOT PRODUCTIVE OR INFLUENTIAL.

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET

ACTION ANT
WM-8

VR. FILE DDP/WH/SA-S,CA-2/R-2,WE-6: C=/B, Fi

S E C R E T 252222Z

25 JAN 6678
WAVE INFO PALP DIR CITE SAGO 8628

QRSNIPE PBRUMEN

CLASC OFFICES GOLDSACK MASPERO AND DI PACCE ARE SMALL ONE-TWO MAN UNITS USUALLY INCLUDING OFFICIAL AND PRIVATE FEMALE SECRETARY, UNLESS AMICE-31 HAS ACCESS TOP LEVEL CLASC OFFICIALS AND STRONG CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC BACKGROUND SAGO DOUBTS IF HE CAN OBTAIN HIGH LEVEL JOB OR INFLUENCE CLASC EXEC MTG. BELIEVE BEST WAIT UNTIL DEBRIEFING AND SEE WHAT TYPE JOB CLASC OFFERS. SAGO CAN MONITOR A-31 ACTIVITIES SAGO THRU FUBIAS-7. IMPORTANT TO NOT MASPERO

VERY SUSPICIOUS ANY PBRUMEN EXILE CONTACT PAST OR PRESENT WITH OD YOKE.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Ous: Williar Brown/scr
Uaft CA/34
EXT 6761
DATE 22 January 1965

MESSAGE FORM 34
SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-284658

TO JYSHAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/LCPIPIT

FROM: DIRECTOR 25 JAN 1965

CONS: CA/04 INFO VR, FILE, CA 2, WHT, DDP, WH/SA 8, WEG, C/OA, FI, FILINT 2

TO WAVE INFO: SAGO PALP CITE DIR 79561

CRSHIPB FBRUMEN

REF: DIR 79560

IDEN: ENRIQUE VILLARREA (CUBAN)

END OF MESSAGE

WE/PO/3

WEBA/MB J Ott coordinated in draft

361-284658

C/CA

DC/WH/SA

COORDINATITY OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

ORG: William Brown/scr
UNIT: CA/B4
EXT: 6761
DATE: 22 January 1965
MESSAGE FORM 34
46 SECRET
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-281,658

RL
ROUTING

TO: IMWAVE SANTIAGO PARIS/LCPIPIT
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: CA/04
INFO: VR, FILE, CA2, WH 7, DOP, WH/SAS, WEG, CIIOA, FIFIANT 2
TO: YWAVE INFO: SACO PALP
CITE DIR:
QRSNIPE PBRUMEN
79560
REF: WAVE 7250 (IN 62274) NOT SENT PALP ABSTRACT 22 January 1965

1. AGREE IN PRINCIPLE OPS USE AMICE-31 PER REF. REQUEST ASSESSMENT A-31, METHOD OF HANDLING, AND DEGREE HE RESPONSIVE. POA NOW BEING REINSTATED AND REQUEST STA FORWARD PRQ 1 AND 11 SOONEST.

2. IN VIEW NATURE CLASC EXEC MTG DO NOT EXPECT A-31 TO BE IN POSITION INFLUENCE THIS EVENT. FUTURE VALUE WILL DEPEND ON CLASC POSITION OBTAINED. SUGGEST FOLLOWING CLASC TARGETS AS KEY SECTORS FOR PENETRATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT HEADED BY DI PACCE; OFFICE OF SEC GEN MASPERO; OFFICE OF PRES GOLDSACK. FYI SAGO NOW HAS PENETRATION IN CLASC HQS PRESS AND PROPAGANDA DEPT THROUGH FUBIAS-7 (IDEN) AND DO NOT WISH DUPLICATE THIS CHANNEL. DEFER TO SAGO FOR ADDITIONAL COMMENTS A-31 USE.

3. IN A-31 BRIEFINGS DO NOT INDICATE SCOPE KUBARK INTEREST AND PROGRAMS RE CLASC.

4. REQUEST A-31 DEBRIEFING SAGO MTG. BE FORWARDED WHEN OBTAINED.

END OF MESSAGE

WE/PO/B
WESA/MB J Ott coordinated in draft

DC/WH/SA

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

FROM

# JMWAVE

ACTION

# SA/O 4

INFO

VR. FILE, WH/SA 8, DDP, WH 7, CAZ, CI CILOPS, FI, ZIAN, SI/15 2

SECRET 182223Z

DIR INFO SAGO CITE WAVE 7250

DIDORIC ZRGAMIN PBRUMEN

REF DIR 76863 +

1. PAST SEVERAL MONTHS CLASC PROMISING HIRE AMICERS AFTER SOLUTION BUDGETARY PROBLEMS PRESUMALRY AT NEXT EXEC COMMITTEE MEETING. CLASC ALSO INDICATED CERTAIN AMICERS INCLUDING IDEN (ASSIGNED AMICE-31) WELCOME ABOARD NOW IN ANTICIPATION SALARY FUNDS WITHIN FEW MONTHS.

2. PLAN HAVE A-31 ACCEPT OFFER AND ALSO PERSONAL INVITATION ATTENT CLASC EXEC COMMITTEE MEETING SAGO. A-13 WILL BE INSTRUCTED PENETRATE CLASC FOR JOINT AMICE/KUSARK PURPOSES:

A. REPORT DETAILS CLASC STRUCTURE, BIODATA AND INTER- RELATIONSHIPS KEY PERSONNEL.

3. ASSESS EXTENT SUCCESS COIST FAR LEFTIST ATTEMPIS TRUN CLASC AGAINST U.S. THEREBY UNDER MINING HEMISPHERIC ANTI-CASIRG SOLIDARITY.

C. MANEUVER INTO POSITION SPOT AND EXPOSE OR LEGATE ADVERSE INFLUENCES AND BRING CLASC MORE IN LINE MOIGAL GOALS.

3. A-31 ETD 21 JAN. INDEX.

* RE OP TO CINDENTITE ATEPERO STIITURE IN CLUSE, AND THUS

SECRET SET STALE FOR SECRET HIS REPLICEMC.

![signature]

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 2

SECRET

FROM
IMWAVE
ACTION
CA104
INFO
VR. FILE, WH/SA 8, DOP, WH 7, CA 2, C1, CI/OPS, F1, CI/IC 2

SECRET 182223Z

DIR INFO SAGO CITE WAVE 7251
19 JAN 65 IN 62266
DIDORIC ZRGAMIN PBRUMEN
REF WAVE 7250 (CN 62274)
IDEN: REINALDO (PICO) RAMON.
SECRET
CFN

SECRET

According to official file Subject was flattered.

Union leader in Cuba when Castro took over - successfully fought Communist in his Union - Eventually left Cuba - became member of CUBAW forces and was captured during Bay of Pigs - Coffers sent to negotiate for tractors deal in exchange for prisons - Defeated during negotiation trip - used lay were in PW. -

member of FAROC - POA expired 15 Jan became of founder to submit PRQ Part II - jury alt hary
POA reinstated

21 Jan 65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

Case Cancelled 15 Jan 65
WH/SA/SBS

Failure to submit Part II

WH/K

GG-1903

1154

317-33-1653


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# SECRET

ACTION: SANTIAGO.

INFO: Will P.

YR. FILE: E, DDP, with s. 8, co.i, calcep, ciles, clea, casa, silic

LOC: 6, Day, Ex/11-3

SECRET 1622042

DIR INFO WAVE CARA CITE SAGO 5749

REF: DIR 84546

DYVOUR PBRUMEN MHVIPER PSYCH

IN 8729-5"

1. FUBIAS-7 AND AMICE/31 MADE TRIP TO VALPARAISO 13 FEB 10- GETHER WITH GUILLERMO MARTINEZ OF CLASC. THEY ARRANGED WITH WENSELAO MORENO AVILA, VICE PRES ORIT AND SEC GEN CONFEDERACION MARITIMA DE CHILE (COMACH) TO HOLD BOYCOTI AGAINST ENGLISH, FRENCH AND SPANISH SHIPPING ON 24 FEB FOR 24 HR FERIOD IN SOLIDARITY WITH F-7 AND A-31 ARRANGED WITH EMILIO MASFERO, SEC GEN CLASC, TO GE MOVE CLASC RESOLUTION JOINING COMACH IN BOYCOIT AND IN SUPPORT CT.

2. STATION HAS COPY LETTER FROM MORENO TO CIV, OBTAINED THRU OFFERING SUPPORT AND GIVING INFO ON BOYCOTT. SAGO FLANS USE EAS FART MEDIA PROP BEGINNING 21 FEB. F-7 CLAIMS MORENO

COMACH CONTROLS APPROX

CISED BOYCOTT IN ALL CHILEAN FORIS.

4.SET PER CENT OF MARITIME WORKERS OF CHILE.

3. STATION PROP ASSE'S WILL GIVE MAX COVERAGE ORIT CONGRESS RESOLUTIONS PER PARA 2 REF

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET

CANTINGO

CA/04

DOP WHIS08, WH47, CJITCZ, CAZ

WEG

SECRET 122225Z

DIR INFO PALP WAVE BUEN CARA RIOD MEXI LIMA CITE SAGO 8737

DIDORIC ZRGAMIN

REF: SAGO 8787(IN 77/2?)

12 FEB 65 IN 79831

1. FUBIAS-7 REPORTS AS OF 11 FEB MASPERO AND ALL EXEC SECS
   PRESENTED THEIR SPEECHES AND THAT DISCUSSIONS PROPOSED RESOLUTIONS
   NOW BEGUN ONE BY ONE. NO DISSENSION YET APPARENT AND ACCORDING
   EDUARDO GARCIA, APPEARS MASPERO TRYING TO APPEASE EVERYONE AND
   WILLING ACCEPT ALL RECOMMENDATIONS. DUE TO SLOW START MTG WILL
   EXTEND THRU 17 FEB. APPEARS GENERAL ATMOSPHERE CLOSED BUT MOST
   PROPOSALS ARE OPEN AND YET TO BE DISCUSSED.

2. F-7 SAID VANISTENDAEL CONVERSATIONS WITH MASPERO HAVE
   HELPED. VAN TOLD M ALL HIS BAD POINTS AND SAID CORRECT THEM OR AID
   WOULD CEASE. M ACCEPTED CRITICISM AND PROMISED REFORM.

3. FOR WAVE: AMICE-31 NOT SITTING IN ON CLOSED EXEC COMM MTG,
   ONLY ALLOWED SPEAK TO EXEC COMM ON RESOLUTION ESTABLISH FRATERNAL
   RELATIONS A-31 UNION AND CLASC. F-7 SAID MASPERO HAS GIVEN CONSENT
   TO RESOLUTION AND THINKS HIGHLY A-31. A-31 AND F-7 TRAVELING
   VALPARAISO WITH CLASC LDRS TO ORGANIZE MARITIME BOYCOTT, APPEARS

CLASC WILLING HELP. A-31 ETD NOW IS FEB.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

CLASSIF TO RELEASE:

# SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

INFO VR, FILE, GMGY, 1154 342, SANO, CILE 7,

SECRET 110153Z

SAGO INFO DIR PALP CITE WAVE 8143

!! FEB 65 IN 78079

TYPIC ORSNIPE

REF SAGO 8703 (77077)

1. WILL DEGRIEF AMICE-31 ON EXEC COMMITTEE MTG WHEN RETURNS WAVE.

2. A-31 SECGTS IDEN GROUP AND HIS REMARKS RE AFFILIATION REFER TO IDEN NOT AMICE.

SECRET

* AMICE-21 ASKED FUBIAS-7 FOR CONTACTS IN VALPO TO START STRIKE IN FAVOR PERANTEN EYILES AND SAN PERAMIDA SHIPPING, SAID HE PLANS STRIKE WORK THRU ORIT,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

VR, FILE, DO CAR GAPH WEG, WH7, SOOG, CC2

11 FES 65 IN 78081..

SECRET 112:532

SAGO INFO DIR PALP CITE WAVE 8141

TYPIC QRSNIPE

REF WAVE 8143 (73017)

IDEN: ORGAKIZACION REVOLUCIONARIA DE TRANSPORTE (ORT).

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# SECRET

ACTION

INS VR, FILE, DDPCA-3 CA/O-4 WC-6, WH-7 SOTC. C/C 2
DO-4 Dol/H-3, C/CA

S ECRET 092216Z

19FEB GAIN 77077

WAVE INFO DIR PALP CITE SAGO 8733

REF: WAVE 8029(C53365)

TYPICORSHIPE

ACCORDING FUBIAS-7, AMICE-31 ARVD SAGO 7 FEB AND STAYING HOTEL
RITZ. F-7 SAID MASPERO APPARENTLY SENT CABLE AND INVITED A-31 TO
ATTEND CLASC EXEC COMM MTG. A-31 TOLD F-7 HE ASKING FOR FRASTERNAL
AFFILIATION WITH CLASC AND PLANS TRAVEL LA VISITING VARIOUS MARITIME
UNIONS AND TRY ENGAGE THEM WITH CLASC. A-31 ASKED F-7 FOR CONTACTS
IN VALPO TO START STRIKE IN FAVOR PBRUMEN EXILES AND BAN PBRUMEN
SHIPPING, SAID HE PLANS STRIKE WORK THRU ORIT. A-31 LEAVING SAGO
16-17 FEB FOR ANTOFAGASTA, LIMA AND BOGOTA.

SECRET

*Re KUBARK Relationship with Amice members.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

14-00000

4-45 SECRET

SANTIAGO

WH 8

VR. FILE, ODP, WH/SA 8, DA 2, CA/04, WE-6, DD 4, CO/H 3,

SECRET 2220170

A. HAVE DIR INFO ONLY GIVE INFO

REFS: A. 3130 0621 ("66618)

B. CAVE 7253 ("62274)

4 2 FEB 65 IN 72335

TSNIPE PERUVEN

FUDIAS-T 1 FOR 11 STATION 2 PLS THAT EMILIO WASPERO, 201
CLAFC, TOLD ME HE PIDN'T FULL OF EMILIO FROM FORDOS TO WORK

IN CENTRAL AMERICA DOING LABOR THIS WILL VERY UNDER LOCATED CONTROL.

ALSO LYRIC DUO CAN APPEAR AREA. SHOULD SAID BE AWARE TELAVIV'S VISIT.

FOUR WITH KUBARSKI. THE FACT THEY WILL WORK FOR CLARO AND ADAPTATION

SALARY PAID BY SOMEONE ELSE, WILL ACCEPT THEM. MENTIONED RIVER

FRANCISCO TORRES AND ALMIRADO WILL SHOW THOSE KE PLANS WITH

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET

VE. FILE, DDP MIH-7 CHE-6 C=/0A CS-OPS

De-4 Do/H-3

SECRET 0700452

DIR INFO SAGO PALP CITE WAVE 8329-

1:PIC CRSNIPE

7 FEB 65 175365

REF A. SAGO 8679 (IN 72335)

B. SAGO 8628 (IN 66678)

1. MASPERO REF A STATEMENT RE KUBARK RELATIONSHIP FOUR AM.CE MEMBERS PROBABLY REFERS IDEN A THROUGH D ON WHOM AMICE AND CLASC IN CORRESPONDENCE PAST SEVERAL CONTHS. OF THESE ONLY IDEN A (AMICE-S.) HAS DIRECT KUBARK RELATIONSHIP FOR FORMALIZED RECENTLY FOR QASNIPE. IDEN S ALSO UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR RECRUITMENT, BUT NEVER CONTACTED. IDEN O NOT CONSIDERED AGENT CANDIDATE. HIS MAIN IMPORTANCE AS MULATTO SHOWN LATIN AMERICAN WORKERS CASTRO-COMMUNISM NOT HOFF OF COLORED PEOPLES. IDEN D OPERATIONALLY PREEMPTED BY OTHER ODYOKE AGENCY.

2. AMICE WAS MENSER AMBUD WHICH HIGHLY PUBLICIZED AS ODYOKE SUBSIDY AT TIME ITS STORMY DEMISE, AND GRE OF FEW MEMBER OROS STILL ACTIVE. ON THIS BASIS MASPERO PROBABLY CONCLUDES AMICE FUADS FROM NUSARK. HOWEVER A-31 2RIEFED TO SAY AMICE OPERATING COSTS AND SALARIES COVERED BY DUES SEVERAL TOUSAND MEMBERS WHO ALO OCCASIONALLY DONATE DAY'S PAY FOR SPECIAL ACTIVITIES AND

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

VR, FILE, DOP WH-T CE-SCADA WE-C CHICA SO-OP e-fe-2
De-4. Do/H-3

SECRET 070345Z

01 FEB 65 IN 75364

DIR INFO SAGO PALP CITE WAVE 8330

TYPIC ORSNIPE

REF: WAVE 8029 (IN 75365)

IDENS: A. REINALDO PICO

B. FRANCISCO DE LA TORRE

C. LUIS MORENO

D. CONRADO RODRIGUEZ

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO
Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

INFO
Chief, WH

FROM
Chief of Station, JMAVE

SUBJECT
DYVOUR/JMDEVIL/Operational
Transmittal of letter from Juan Carlos LOUREIRO to AMICE-31

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
AR: None

Forwarded under separate cover for addressees' possible interest is a copy of a letter from Juan Carlos LOUREIRO, secretary-general of the Acción Sindical Argentina (ASA), to AMICE-31, regarding Argentine labor developments in the transport sector.

Philip G. ELMARD

Attachment:
"copy of letter, USC

Distribution

1. CCS, Buenos Aires, w/att., USC
2. C/WH, w/att., USC
3. WH/C, w/att., USC

![MICROFILMED JAN 18 1967 DOC. MICRO. GER.]

CS COPY

DATE TYPED
11 Jan 67

DATE DISPATCHED
JAN 12 957

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-267-11

201-284038

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

-COPY

Buenos Aires, 10 de Dicicubre de 1966

Companero
Reinaldo Pico Ramon
P.0.BoxF3373
Miami 33101, Fla.

Querido Amigo:
Paso a contestar tu atenta nota de fecha 2
del actual.- Rapidamente, trataré de darte un panorama de lo que
ocurre aquí y de algunas ideas para la FLAT. Para mejor informa-
ción tuya, te acompaño además un informe sobre la situación inter-
na de la CGT Argentina y algunos problemas que nos afectan muy agu-
damente a los trabajadores de esta parte de Latinoamerica.-

1,-
La huelga general de los obreros del puerto
lleva ya al día de la fecha 53 días de duración. A pesar de la
solidaridad que han recibido de muchos gremios y de todas las fuer-
zas populares, la situación de estos compañeros es muy dura.- Los
motivos de la huelga los encontrarás en el informe adjunto.-

La ITF ha "recomendado" el boycott interna-
cional en apoyo de los portuarios argentinos.- La medida es justa,
pero ha resultado bastante limitada ya que no todos los sindicatos
adheridos a la ITF lo han puesto en práctica, además en algunes lu-
gares se aplicó mal, pues se boycoteaba a los barcos argentinos, pero
no a los de otros banderas que venían con mercaderías de Argentina;
esto no es eficaz y se presta a maniobras turbias. YO ESCRIBE A LA
CLASC y a la CISC pidiendo un apoyo decidido a los portuarios argen-
tinos, pero aun no hemos recibido aquí la documentación sobre las me-
didas que hayan adoptada nuestras centrales internacionales.-

2.-
Otro conflicto sumamente grave, es el que
enfrântamos en este momento los ferroviarios. El gobierno ha sancio-
nado por lay un nuevo reglamento de trabajo que nos retrotras a 50
años atrás en muchos aspectos; además el plan oficial prevé la redu
ción de los 25 talleras con 51 líneas de producción que existen, a
solamente 19 talleros con 31 líneas de producción. Esto significa
RESOSUPACION y además, perjudica al sistema ferreviario y al país.-

Es necesario presionar a la Federación In-
ternacional de Sindicatos Cristianos del Transporte de la CISC, ya,
las organizaciones de base de la FLAT, para que se prenuncien tambien
en este grave conflicto, crucial para el movimiento obrero argentino,
YA QUE LA UNION FERROVIARIA ES EL SINDICATO MAS PODEROSO DE LA AR-

3.-
La CCT Argentina se ha lanzado ya a un en-
frentamiento abierto contra el gobierno militar de Onganfa. El proxi-
mo miercoles 14 habra un paro general de 24 horas, como protesta con-
tra el escandaloso aumento del costo de vida, contra el "arbitraja
obligatoria" y en apoyo de los gremios en conflicto..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

4.-
En el aspecto interno de la FLAT, te dire que como secretario general, me he visto totalmente frenado por la falta de recursos, ya que ni para imprimir papel membretado tengo dinero.-

A pesar de esta dificultad, he tratado de hacer algunas tareas mínimas: Enviar información a la CLASC y a la CISC sobre los problemas del transporte que existen en Argentina, y mantener un minimo de cohesión y de organización del grupo de sindicalistas cristianes del transporte que actuaten mi pais.-

Lo que estoy necesitando, son las direcciones de las organizaciones afiliadas a la FLAT. En Panama no las tomé, porque se nos había prometido una lista completa de nombres y direcciones de todos los participantes del Congreso de CLASC; pero esto nunca llego.

5.-
Estoy completamente de acuerdo contigo, en la necesidad de presionar al Buro y al Comité Ejecutivo de CLASC, para que pongan en marcha las FEDERACIONES PROFESIONALES.- Tambien deberan solucionar tu situación (es necesario que vengas a Latinoamerica), proveer de algunos recursos mínimos a la FLAT, y CONCRETAR DEFINITIVAMENTE EL CURSO-CONGRESO DEL TRANSPORTE.-

Siempre a tus órdenes, te saluda fraternalmente,

Juan Carlos Loureiro


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# SECRET

FILE, WH/C, CH2, CM/KROT, exfat, FI, FI/INT

SECRET 27223EZ CITE PANAMA CITY 1175

RIO DE JANEIRO INFO DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY, SANTIAGO, JMWAVE

JADEVIL

REF: RIO DE JANEIRO 2153(IN07329)* . 8 Oct 66 12580

1. AMICE-31 REPORTED CLASC CONGRESS VOTED 6 OCTOBER TO AFFILIATE CSB. AT SAME TIME VOTED DECIDEDLY TO DISAFFILIATE "CIRCULO OBRERO" (A-31 COULD NOT IDENTIFY THIS ORGANIZATION AS CBTC BUT DESCRIBED IT AS "ORGANIZATION WHICH SUPPORTED MILITARY COUP OF CASTELO BRANCO IN BRAZIL"). SAID THEY WERE DISAFFILIATED FOR TAKING THIS POSITION. CIRCULO OBRERO REP ONLY HAD OPPORTUNITY TO PROPOSE CREATION OF A NEW ORGANIZATION WHICH CLASC COULD SUPPORT. WHEN ASKED WHETHER FIGHT ENDUED ON THIS ISSUE A-31 SAID NO. CONGRESS WAS IN AGREEMENT.

2. NO FURTHER DETAILS AT PRESENT. WILL ADVISE WHEN MORE INFO AVAILABLE.

SECRET

> [Figure: ABSTRACT]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# SECRET

FILE VB CS/29 WH/KG GAS CA/PEG CO/PRIS CA/04 of 41/05 01/102
FI FI/SPG, FI/INT, COLOR, Ger

SECRET 302044Z CITE PANAMA CITY 1129

IMMEDIATE JMWAVE INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR

JMDEV IL

REF: JMWAVE 3273(IN05357

1.  STATION SOURCE REPORTED FITC SEC/GEN, DIOGENES
    GUTIERREZ, STATED JMDEVIL CONGRESS PENETRATED BY US.
    SPEC IF ICALLY NAMED AM ICE-31 SAYING A-31 WILL BE UNMASKED
    FROM CONGRESS POD ILM (ASSUMEDLY AT CONGRESS INAUGURAT I ON
    2 OCTOBER).

2. STATION HAS NO IND ICATION WHAT EVIDENCE GUTIERREZ
   MIGHT POSSESS. A-31 CONTACTED STATION OFFICER BY PHONE
   EVEN ING 29 SEPTEMBER SAYING ONLY THAT HE WITH FRIENDS AND
   WOULD HAVE TO CALL AGAIN D620 FOLLOWING MORN. DID NOT CALL
   FOLLOWING MORN (POSSIBLY DUE TO IN OPPORTUNE SITUATION OF
   DELEGATE LODGING). NO MEETING WITH STATION YET EFFECTED.

3. EXPECT A-31 CALL AGAIN EVENING 32 SEPT. BELIEVE
   WE SHOULD WARN A-31 OF GUTIERREZ PLAN AND ADVISE HIM PREPARE
   DEFENSE WITH SUPPORT OTHER DELEGATES. HOWEVER WILL AWAIT
   JAVAVE CONCURRENCE SEFORE TAXING THIS COURSE. ALTERNATIVE
   IS TO HAVE A-31 WITHDRAWN RO CONGRESS POSSIBLY SUFFERING

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

PAGE 2 PANAMA CITY 1129 SECRET

ATTACK IN ASSENCIA. PLEASE ADVISE

IMMEDIATE PRECEDENCE CABLE.

SECRET

BT

XREF RYBAT

RID/M:
Ост 19 5 45 111 '66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 34

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

DISSEMINATION

ACTION: WH/C

☑ RID COPY

FILE UR, WHS C:/DA, C/IPS, C/I/C2, FI, FI/INT, CAZ, CA/PEG, CA/PROBO C/IDS, FI/SPG

SECRET 302313Z CITE JMWAVE 3341

IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYP! JMDEV IL

REFERENCE: PANAMA CITY 1129 (1607300)

AGREE PACY STATION PLAN TO ALERT AMICE-31 SOONEST

OF PARA 1 REF REPORT IN ORDER ADVISE HIM PREPARE DEFENSE

AND OBTAIN POSSIBLE SUPPORT OTHER DELEGATES. AMICE-31

AND HIS ORGANIZATION OFFICIALLY AFFILIATED TO

JMDEVIL, AND WITH HIS RECEIVING LEITIMATE INVITATION

TO ATTEND CONGRESS BELIEVE HE IN POSITION REBUT POSSIBLE

CHARGES. SPECIFIC EXPOSE INFORMATION POSSIBLY POSSESSED

BY GUTIERREZ NOT KNOWN AT JMWAVE. OBVIOUS CHARGES WOULD

PROBABLY EXPOSE AMICE-31 AS FREEMEN EXILE LABOR

LEADER, AND AMITE COLLABORATOR AND WHOSE ORGANIZATION IS

MEMBER OF AMICE, WHICH GENERALLY VIEWED AS WOLADY-SUPPORTED

ORGANIZATION.

SECRET

SECRET

* REPORTED FITC SIG/GEN KNEW JAIDEVIL CONEVESI PUTTUNTED E. by U.S.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID REF. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

# SECRET

ACTION By 7
FILE KR WH/68

SECRET 281547Z CITE JMWAVE 3272

PRIORITY PANAMA CITY INFO DIRECTOR

JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: PANAMA CITY 1070

1. AMICE/31 WILL MAKE CONTACT PER INSTRUCTIONS IN PARA ONE REF.

2. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION OF AMICE/31 AS FOLLOWS: AGE 33
   AGE 33 YEARS, BROWN EYES, BLACK HAIR, HEIGHT 5' 7", WEIGHT 155 POUNDS, SOLID BUILD, LIGHT SALLOW COMPLEXION, EVEN FEATURES.

AMICE/31 FORMED JUVENTUD OBRERA CATOLICA, AND SERVED AS OFFICER IN NATIONAL TRANSPORT FEDERATION. WAS MEMBER 26 JULY MOVEMENT UNTIL 1960 WHEN JOINED ANTI-CASTRO UNDER-GROUND AND CAME INTO-EXILE. AMICE/31 IS ADHERENT OF CLASC POLICIES AND PRACTICES, AND IS CONSIDERED BE PRO-MASPERO, WHOM HE VIEWS AS STRONG, EFFECTIVE LEADER.

SECRET

BT

# SECRET

NNNN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES: 26

ORIG: MR THOMAS J. FLORES FILE RID
UNIT: C/WH/C  INDEX
EXT: SECRET
DATE: 30 SEPT 1966  NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
DISSEM BY 25/M PER

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH/C 8 INFO: VR, FILE RID COPY WH8, CI/OA, CAZ, 10/P2P CA/54

CITE DIRECTOR 39752

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR

IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY, JMWAVE

JMDEVIL

REF PANAMA CITY 1109 (IN 07300)

SUGGEST AMICE-31 BE WARNED OF PLAN ATTACK HIM AND THAT
HE PREPARE DEFENSE AS SUGGESTED REF. HOWEVER DEFER TO
WAVE IF OTHER ALTERNATIVE APPEARS PREFERABLE.

SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER MR THOMAS J. FLORES C/WH/C

BT

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE B

REF: FILE NO. -1-28

*   REF TO FILE NO.
*   FILE RID
*   RET. TO BRANCH
*   DESTROY SIG.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

DISSEN BY 28

ACTION : WH8
INFO : FILSUR, WH/C8, CI/OPS, CI/12, CI/CA, FI, FI/INT, CA2, CA/PROP, CA/04

RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT: FILSUR
TIME

ΟΥ

PACY

SECRET 11746 CITE PANAMA CITY 1115

DIRECTOR INFO JMAVE

REF:
A: PANAMA CITY 110S (IN07300)

B. DIRECTOR 39752

C. JMAVE 35-41 (N07380)

1. AMICE-ST ALERTED 30 SEPTEMBER RE POSSIBLE ATTACK.

CONFIDENT GUTIERREZ COULD ONLY MAKE OSVITUS CHARGES

DELIEVES REAL SOURCE OF PROBLEM IS PERSCAL.

LENTIONED REF C.

A-31 DISLIKES GUTIERREZ WHCA AL DESCRIBES AS TOO SOFT ON COMMUNISTS. APPARENTLY THIS DISLIKE IS MUTUAL.

2. A-31 CONFIDENT HE WILL HAVE SUPPORT OF OTHER CUDAI

DELEGATES AND MASPERS WHO CONSIDERS A PERSONAL FRIEND.

ALSO FEELS IT POSSILLE TO ULTAIL SUPPORT OTHER CONGRESS DELEGATES, BUT DOES NOT SELIEVE PROBLEM WILL BE SERIOUS.

SAYS HE WILL BE PREPARED TO DEFEND AIMSELF.

3. NEXT CONTACT WITH A-31 EXPECTED 3 OR 4 OCTOBER

COMPLIDENT HIS JUDGEMENT OF SITUATION.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# MESSAGE FORM

: A.B. Outright
WH/2/P
EXT 5421
DATE 11 October 1966

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO PANAMA CITY INFO: REP/LANT, CARACAS, SANTIAGO, JHAVE, SANTO DOMINGO,
LIMA, MEXICO CITY, RIO DE JANEIRO, SAO PAULO, ICPIPIT

REF: PANAMA CITY 1190 (IN-13995).

REF ZRWAHOO DISSEMED AS TDCS-3114/12911-66 WITH ADDED CONTROL NO FOREIGN DISSEM.
SOURCE DESCRIPTION CHANGED TO READ: "AN ATTENDER AT THE CONGRESS DESCRIBED BELOW
WHO IS A SUPPORTER OF EMILIO MASFERO. HE HAS NOT PROVIDED SUFFICIENT
INFORMATION TO WARRANT A JUDGMENT AS TO HIS RELIABILITY."

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# SECRET

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-2196
TOTAL COPIES 33
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

Dissem By ZL

ACTION: WH-8 ☑FID COPY

INFO: FILE VR WHC8 CI/ops, CE/OA, CI/IC.2, FI, FI/INT.2 CA-2 CA/FEUP, CA/O-4

SECRET 072006Z CITE PANAMA CITY 1171

JMWAVE INFO DIRECTOR

JMDEVIL

ABSTRACT INDEX: 7 Oct 66 12485

REF: PANAMA CITY 1119(INO7778)

1. AMICE-31 ETA COSTA RICA 9 OCT. HAD NO TROUBLE AT CLASC CONGRESS PARTICULARLY SINCE GUTIERREZ DOES NOT ENJOY MASPERO FAVOR.

2. A-31 COOPERATIVE, HELPFUL AGENT. ONLY PROBLEM WAS HIS DIFFICULTY IN LEAVING CONGRESS SITE ALONE WHICH PREVENTED FREQUENT CONTACT. THIS NO FAULT OF HIS.

LAST CONTACT SCHEDULED 8 OCT. APPRECIATE JMWAVE ASSISTANCE.

SECRET *Amice-31 ALERTed 30 Sept Re Possible ATTACK.

I to WIH/CUBA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# SECRET

? YES NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIE 37

FILE NO. 201-22

ACTO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
M C

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

UNIT
TIME
BY
DISSEM BY2
ACTION

WH 8
INFO
ADVANCE COPY

RID COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED
FILE, VR, Wo/c 8, ofors, ofer, CH2, c/toos, c/y/04, ET, Ef/INT 2

SECRET 271449Z CITE PANAMA CITY

27 SEP 56 04387

PRIORITY JMWAVE INFO DIRECTOR

JMDEV IL

REF: A. DIRECTOR 37751

B. JMWAVE 3243

1. PREFER NOT TO CONTACT AMICE-31 AT REF IDEN B
   ADRESS DUE POSSIBLE SECURITY RISKS, REQUEST JMWAVE DIRECT

AMICE-31 PHONE (PANAMA) 35551, IDENFY SELF AS "RAMON" AND
ASK FOR "LUCHO". LUCHO WILL TELL RAMON. THAT HE (LUCHO) IS A
FRIEND OF PABLO AND ARRANGE MEET ING. SUGGEST AMICE-31 CALL
LATE EVEN ING OR EARLY MORNING HOUR S.

2. ALSO REQUEST JMWAVE PROVIDE AMICE-31 DESCRIPTION
   AND PERTINENT DATA.

SECRET

BT..

NNNN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

INDEX ☐ YES
☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RIJO RET. TO BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES 3
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
1 PP-
5
2
6 CA
3 FI
7 X
4
UNIT
TIME
BY
DISIGN CY 30/9
ACTION
WH B
☒ RID COPY ADVANCE COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TURYO
INFO FILE, UK, CI/OPS, CI/OA FI, FI/INTZ, CAZ, CA/4, WH/CO

SECRET 262302Z CITE JMWAVE 3243
PANAMA CITY INFO DIRECTOR, SAN JOSE
JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCES: A. DIRECTOR 37751 (NOT SENT SAN JOSE)
B. DIRECTOR 37752 (NOT SENT SAN JOSE)

1. AMICE/31 (IDENTITY A) ARRIVING PANAMA CITY 29 SEPTEMBER AT 1230 HOURS ON PAN AMERICAN FLIGHT 511. A/31 ALERTED TO TELEPHONE CALL AT IDENTITY B ADDRESS FROM PERSON IDENTIFYING SELF AS "FRIEND OF PABLO". IF STATION WISHES MAKE OTHER CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS, PLS CABLE INSTRUCTIONS PRIOR TO 29 SEPTEMBER.

2. A/31 BRIEFED PER REFERENCE B GUIDELINES AND WILL SUBMIT REPORT UPON RETURN TO JMWAVE 20 OCTOBER. AMICE/31 PLANS SPEND 12-20 OCTOBER IN SAN JOSE TO PARTICIPATE IN DISCUSSIONS WITH COSTA RICAN TRANSPORT WORKERS.

SECRET
BT
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE G TOTAL COPIES 3

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

USSEM BY 30/4
ACTION

RID COPY ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED

FILE, UR, CI/OPS, CI/CA, FI, FI/INT2, CH2, CH/04, WA/CB

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SECRET 262322Z CITE JMWAVE 3244

PANAMA CITY INFO DIRECTOR, SAN JOSE

JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 3243

IDENTITY A. REINALDO (PICO) RAMON, PRESIDENT OF
ORGANIZACION REGIONAL DE TRANSPORTE
(ORT - CLASC AFFILIATE) AND MEMBER FORDC.

IDENTITY B. FEDERACION INTERAMERICANA DE

TRABAJADORES CRISTIANOS

AVENIDA 7, CENTRAL 2420

EDIFICIO PREMIER, FIRST FLOOR.

SECRET
BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# MESSAGE FORM

Phil Holts:res
WH/2/Panama
5421
Date: 23 September 1966

TOTAL COPIES: 08

SECRET

FILE RIO
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF WH 8 RID COPY INFO: VR FILE WH/C 8, CA/0A, CA 2

CA/PROP, CA/04, FI, Filint
SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 37751

23 28 32 Z INFO: LIMA

TOPANAMA CITY XNKOX JMWAVE

REFS: A. JMWAVE 3126 (IN-99957)*

B. PANAMA CITY 1039 (IN-01669)**

IN ADDITION EMFEVER-1, SUGGEST PANAMA CITY ALSO CONTACT JMWAVE ASSET

AMICE-31 FOR COVERAGE JMDEVIL CONGRESS. FOR PANAMA CITY: PLEASE ARRANGE

CONTACT INSTRUCTIONS AMICE-31 WITH JMWAVE. FOR LIMA: WILL DUBOLD-1

ATTEND CONGRESS? IF SO, BELIEVE STATION CONTACT WOULD BE USEFUL.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comments: *JMWAVE asset AMICE-31 invited to CLASC congress Pacy. JMWAVE plans pay his travel to Pacy and instruct to report congress developments, especially CLASC proposal to create Miami based organization of Cuban workers.

**Contact instructions for EMFEVER-1 in Panama City when he arrives for CLASC congress.

WH/C/MO Magaret Forsythe (by phone)

WH/3/Peru E. Laffin (in draft)

WH/7/DR A. Kida (in draft)

WH/CA

![Signature of William V. Broe] WILLIAM V. BROE C/WHD

![Signature of Releasing Officer] RELEASING OFFICER

![Signature of coordinating officers] COORDINATING OFFICERS SECRET

![Signature of Edwin M. Terrell] EDWIN M. TERRELL C/WH/2

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# SECRET

SECRET 262144Z CITE JMWAVE 3126 INGHURST ACTING 20 SEP 66$5957

DIRECTOR INFO PANAMA CITY

TYPIC

JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 3225 (:N99954)

1. AMICE-31, (IDENTITY A), HAS BEEN INVITED ATTEND REF CONGRESS. UNLESS HEADQUARTERS ADVISES TO CONTRARY, JMWAVE PLANS PAY COST OF ANICE-31 AIR TRAVEL AND WILL INSTRUCT HIM MONITOR AND REPORT ON CONGRESS DEVELOPMENTS, PARTICULARLY JMDEVIL PROPOSAL TO CREATE MIANI-BASED ORGANIZATION OF CUBAN WORKERS.

2. AMICE-31 JMDEVIL CONTACTS INCLUDE CIHAZEL-1 AND CIHUMP-1 (IDENTITY 3), BOTH OF WHOM RECENTLY TRANSITED JNWAVE.

SECRET

ST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

DISSEM by X/1

ACTION

*WH/C*

RID COPY

INFO FILE UR WH2, CI/OA, CI/OFS, CI/IC2, CA2, CA/04, CA/FROF, FI

SECRET 232145Z CITE JMWAVE 3127 INGHURST ACTING 20 SEP 65 9959

DIRECTOR INFO PANAMA CITY

TYPIC JMDEVIL AMICE

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 3126 (/N 99957)

IDENTITY A. REINALDO (PICO) RAMON, PRESIDENT OF ORGANIZACION

REGIONAL DE TRANSPORTE (ORT - CLASC AFFILIATE)

AND MEMBER FORDC.

IDENTITY B. JOSE DE JESUS PLANAS

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill to Sect. 4. on back. Detach Lack flap and forward to Bid

2.  Dontrey front cover sheet, unless it recorde significant acron taken a cont..en! requir-mg preservanen.

FROM: RID/AN

TO ACTION BRANCH

It the no. ad tits shown are re propo sert preper tale no. below awar ument to RID/AN.

TO
ROOM NO
DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED
OFFICES INITIALS

WH/C/ES
22
July 66

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10

11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
FHOPEA FILE NO

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILLIN SECTION I ON PACK. FAPPROPRIATZ

COMMENTS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

UFCA 24.5.22./05.,

UFGA-24522/05

C-300

ALCETVER

PICO Rainaldo

201-284658

RICO Famon, Rainaldo

Parents: Derino and Maria de la Paz. DPOR: 27 July 33, Regla, Havona. Married to Corren PICO Herrera. Brothers: Hector, Forio and Milagros. Address: 2267 SW 16th ST., Miami. Address in Cuba: Forerto 516, apt. 2, Foparto Palatino, Cerro. Arrived at the US on 29 Dec. 60 from Tegucigalpa, Honduras. Pareport 35973.

Source: Perysonel dato recruitment form, 17 Jar 61.

26 years old. Married. Cuban. High School Education. Corrist. Secretary of the AORP.

Co rces MDR resistration form.

Gays he will not return with the rest of the Gefon prisoners that came in a Commission to try to obtain an exchange of priconers.

Pources Memo C-300 (from Newspaper "El Popular", 29 July 61)

DPOR: 21 July 33, Regla, Havona. Current address: 1067 SW 8th St. Miami, Joined the military commission on 15 Sept. 61 (transportation organization) Metropolitan curses. Docs not receiv o wx.

Unemployed.

Sources: Form as member of the Revolutionary Organ ration, Military Commission, 16 Porch 62.

Born in Regla, Havana on 21 July:33. Address: 1067 SW 8th St. Miami. Worked for Metropolitan turres.

Sources: Revolutionary transportation Organization, Military Commission, April 62.

DD-231. noting between 141101 ive and revea arrons in Minal, 29 funa 63.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

UFGA 24.5.22/05

(cont.)

Born 21 July 33, in, Havana, Cuba. Parents: Pedro PICO and Maria de la Fe Yes Porn Rodriguez. Married to Alicia Lugo Gonzalez. Sons: Reinaldo Mario and Paris 3-1 Corran PICO. Piro (First marriage) on Alex PICO lago (second carrier). Our driver. Address: 1645 SW 12 St. Niemi. Passport No. 187738 (expires on 18 Oct. 68) Resident No. A12 445 812. Preparatory course. Took courses with the Catholic working Youth. Was a delegate to the X Anniversary Congress of the J.O.C. Conference. Pica and move sev roi conference. Started an underground cell of the 26 of July Movement as Chief of Action and Fabio are in the Havana area. On 3 May 59 was appointed delegate before the official and employers organizations representing the Metropolitan buses union. At the First Congress of Transportation Workers was appointed President of Comments Commission and later Secretary of Foreign Relations of the National Trans tot in Federation. Because of the X CTC-R C tremors held on Nov. 59 resigned to both ports. When he arrived at Miami joined the FORDC, but left it from April '1 to March 64, when he again joined the CRDC. While he was away from the FORDC he organized the "Cruizoci n Revolucionario del Transporte" (ORT) now with the FIRD and also the "Alianza de Trabajadores Cubanos" now also with the FORDC. During 1958 was an activist for the M-26-7, the only organization to which he belonged apart from the JOC. Late 1959 joined the MIR and was National Coordinator until December 1960 when he became an asylee. Currently is only a member of the FORDC, as a sector of iriyaon 2505 and was a prison Ciron, war in the Rebel Army at the victory of the Revolution.
Source: P-8, 15 April 64.

From the Transportation Revolutionary Organizations. Member of the anti-Castro groups called "Los Juramentados" who want to start the Cuban war of liberation and are collecting money for arms and munitions. This group is made up by representatives of several organizations.
Source: Archiver, infile info. 19 May 64.

Secretary-general of the Revolutionary Transportation Confederation. Was invited me Venezuela by the Latin American Confederation of Christian Union (CLASC) representing the Frente Obrero revolucionario Democratico Cubano (FORDC) the festivities of the 1st of May.
Free-vapeur "Miami Herald", 22 May 64.

Appeared in the program "Entrevista Fetelor de Prensa" over radio station WFAB, Miami, on 20 June 65.

An employee of the recruitment of a Transportation Battalion.
Source: "Radio Flag", Miami, escort, 9 April 62.


Source: "Diario las Americas", 7/10/71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

UFGA 24.5.22/05

PROO_irinalo (cont)

Member of the MRDC. Lives at 2267 NW 17th street, 'is 1.
Source: List of MRDC memberr, 1 March 61.

Took part in the debates at the MRDC Session, according to the column "Noticias al Cifo".
Source: "Diario de las Americas", 1 Feb. 61.

Has taken shelter together with Hilton Collazo at the house located at 1930 NW 20th st. because he fears an attack.
Source: C-42, 29 July 61.

While at the offices of the Committee for the Liberation of the Prisoners at Giron said Fidel told the Commission that came to Miami for the exchange of prisoners that if they did not show up with 6 or 8 millions, there would be no exchange.
Source: C-84, 28 July 61.

Revolutionary persons who worked in action and sabotage in the M-26-7 together with Angel Maria Hernandez Avila.
Source: Angel Maria Hernandez Avila, 17 Jan 61.

Albor o Mellado says that Reinaldo Pico told him he would leave for Cuba to take explosives; that he worked for the CIA and was paid $300.00 monthly.
Source: C-5, 18 Dec. 61.

Remained in Miami when he came with other prisoners of Playa Giron to try to obtain his freedom and that of his companions.
For rees C-90, 12 May 62.

DD-505. Function in honor of Jose Ignacio BUTRO Hernandez, in Miami, en 17 Nov. 63.

President of the Revolutionary Transportation Organization. One of the four organization sponsoring the Workers Training Course.
Source: Newspaper ",iami Herald", 21 Feb. 6.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

SECRET

WH8RID COPY

701 RIAN, WH/COAS, EURE, CT/OA, FIZ

SECRET 3914452 JAN 59 CITE WH/MIAMI 2294

CARACAS INFO DIRECTOR SANTO DOMINGO PORT AU PRINCE PARIS KINGSTON

EVNULE AMCLEVE 9 JAN 53 IN 68106

REF: CARACAS 1545(W 66735)

1. PARA 3 REF ASSUMPTION CORRECT. SUBJECT IS AMICE-31.

2. STATION POUCHING PERTINENT DOCS FROM HIS 201.

AMICE-31 HAS OA AND RECEIVED $333 MONTHLY SALARY VIA AMICE
PAYROLL UNTIL PROJECT TERMINATED IN 1957.

3. NO ONE PRESENTLY AT WH/MIAMI KNOWS SUBJECT. HOW-
   EVER, HENRY RUBASH, LAST JWAVE AMICE CASE OFFICER, WHO NOW
   HQS ON CONSULTATIONS, MAY DE ABLE PROVIDE PERSONAL ASSESS-
   MENT AMICE-34 FOR CARACAS.

4. FILE: 231-284503.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

SECRET

8 July 1968

MEMORANDUM

TO: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

VIA: Chief, CA

FROM: CA/Henry J. RUBASH

SUBJECT: AMICE Progress Report
1 April - 30 June 1968

A. OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

1. AMICE-31 was a delegate to the Ninth CLASC Consejo which was held in Santo Domingo from 17-24 May 1968 and he also attended the First Latin American Labor Conference on Development and Integration which took place following the Ninth Consejo. A documented report on these meetings was submitted under UFGA-30216.

B. ADMINISTRATIVE

2. During the fourth quarter of FY 68 a total of approximately $6,787 was spent on the AMICE activity. This amount includes termination payments made to AMICE-3 and AMOTEX-66. The cumulative total of AMICE expenditures for FY 68 is $71,628.

3. AMICE-3 and AMOTEX-66 were terminated amicably as of 30 June 1968. The only remaining active AMICE agent is AMICE-34 who will be retained by JMCOBRA as the labor reporter for the AMHIM Bulletin.

C. PROBLEMS

4. There are no problems of an operational nature.

D. PLANS FOR NEXT QUARTER

5. Not applicable.

SECRET

![AMICE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# JEAN BELL
## CA/INT
## 4383
## 19 JUNE 1968

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY 28 PER

CONF: CAS

RID COPY INFO: FILE CA/PEE CA/TEROP FI

FI/INTO WHS, WH/CO/G8 C/OPS CI/162

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO JMWAVE CITE DIRECTOR 09760

INFO SANTO DOMINGO

DTDORIC INTEL JMDEVIL

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 5604 (IN 17932)

PLS ADVISE IF STATION HAS YET DEBRIEFED AMICE-31 RE CLASC

CONFERENCES HELD IN SANTO DOMINGO DURING MAY AND, IF SO, WHEN

REPORTS CAN BE EXPECTED HEADQUARTERS. LNGOLD AND LNWIRE HAVE

REQUESTED ALL INFO AVAILABLE WHICH NOT REPORTED IN PRESS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/C/CA

De/WH/7/

CA/B4 - TONY HOLLAND (IN DRAFT)

C/WH

COORDINATING OFFICERS

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

C/CA/INT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

# DISPATCH

## SECRET

Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
Chief of Station, Santo Domingo: Chief of Station, JMCOBRA, Chief, All Division.

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
AKULE/AMICE
Comments of AMICE-31 on Raimundo ONGARO

AR: None; FYI

REF: (HDCA-7116), 31 May 1968

AMICE-31/had only the following to add concerning Raimundo ONGARO and his activities: After ONGARO had made his violent speech on television in Santo Domingo he was cornered by the Cuban (exile) delegation the members of which were incensed by his allegations concerning Cuban exiles and his misinformation about the Castro regime. According to AMICE-31 their arguments prevailed and ONGARO in the end was quite apologetic and admitted to them (AMICE-31 thought sincerely) that he had been in error. As proof of the sincerity of ONGARO's change of mind on the Cuban question AMICE-31 pointed to the fact that, on behalf of the Cuban delegation, ONGARO approached Juan Luis GALLO Estevez, the intransigent Uruguayan whose negative vote (the only one) doomed the Cuban-sponsored resolution on political prisoners to defeat, and tried to get him to go along with the majority.

2. AMICE-31 called ONGARO basically "un buen muchacho" and non-Communist. He reported that ONGARO was a strong peronista and a "good, practicing Catholic". He added this latter description with some wonderment because he had always placed "good, practicing Catholics" automatically in the pro-U.S., anti-Castro camp.

Henry J. RUBASH

Distribution:

2 - COS Buenos Aires

2 - COS Santo Domingo

2 - COS JMCOBRA

2 - C/WH

2 - WH/COG



CS COPY

UFGA-30217

SECRET

DEFERRED

19 June 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

(FAMILY NAME) (FIRST NAME) (MIDDLE NAME) NATIONALITY ALIEN REGISTRATION NO

LUGO Alicia None Queen

ALL OTHER NAMES USED

Helena Lugo

FATHER FAMILY NAME FIRST NAME DATE CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH KNOWN CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE

LUGO Jose (DECEASED)

MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME) CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE

ESTINE

FORMER SPOUSES (IF NONE, SO STATE)

FAMILY NAME FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE DATE & PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE

NONE

APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST

| STREET AND NUMBER | CITY | PROVINCE OR STATE | COUNTRY | MONTH | YEAR | MONTH        | YEAR |
| ----------------- | ---- | ----------------- | ------- | ----- | ---- | ------------ | ---- |
| 1173 NW 29 st     | alla | Fla               | Usa     | April | 68   | Present Time |      |
| 530 SW 10 st      | alla | Fla               | Usa     |       | 65   | April        | 68   |
| 1921 sw 4 ave     | alla | Fla               | Usa     |       | 62   |              | 65   |
|                   |      |                   |         |       |      |              |      |
|                   |      |                   |         |       |      |              |      |

LAST FOREIGN RESIDENCE OF MORE THAN ONE YEAR IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE INCLUDE ALL INFORMATION REQUESTED AGO.E)

APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS (IF NONE, SO STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST

| FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER | OCCUPATION | FROM  | TO   |
| --------------------------------- | ---------- | ----- | ---- |
|                                   |            | MONTH | YEAR |
| Fred Frank Store - 1514 s w 5 ave |            |       |      |

LAST OCCUPATION ABROAD IF HOT SLOVABUVE (INCLUDE ALL INFORMATICY REQUESTED ABOVE)

THIS FORM IS SUBMITTED IN CONNECTION WITH APPLICATION FOR

NATURALIZATION ON ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS

OTHER (SPECIFY) permanent resident

PENALTIES SEVERE PENALTIES ARE PROVIDED 81 LAW FOR ANOMINGLY AND WILLFULLY FALSIFTING OR CONCEALING A MATERIAL FACT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Operational/TYPIC/JMDEVIL/AMICE

Proposed Travel of AMICE-31

AR: FYI

REF: UFGA-25587 dated 25 July 1966

Headquarters has considered the invitations received by AMICE-31 and has reached the following conclusions on his proposed travel:

A. There seems no useful purpose to be served by covering AMICE-31's personal expenses for the trip described in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the referenced dispatch as WOFACT has good coverage from other sources.

B. Headquarters has no interest in AMICE-31's attendance at the meeting described in paragraph 3 but also no objections to his accepting the invitation if Station JMWAVE deems it advisable or considers this will be of value in any of the Station's own operations.

JANE D. ASTRAHAN

Distribution:
3 - COS, JMWAVE

19-126-35/3

UFGW-6158

201-284658

82 AUG 1968

US COPY

SECRET

201-284658

TYPED:
16 August 1966

WH/C/CA/PP
W Forsythe/Konea

2981

DISTRIBUTION:
1 - SA File

1 - CK File

1 - EXEC

4 - W/C/CA/PP

AC/W/C/CA

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

INCER:
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-2EF TO FILE NO.
FILE RIDO RET. TO DRANCHO
GISTROT SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
# SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION: D-SEM 8460/8
INFO: WH/C 8, RID COPY
FILE: UR, SECUR 4, C1/DPE, 61/OA

**SECRET 2832152 CITE WAVE 1348**

DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMSAFE AMICE

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 39454*

1. WAVE OFFICER MET WITH COORDINATOR CUBAN AFFAIRS MIAMI AND DEPUTY CHIEF IMMIGRATION OFFICE 7 JUNE FOR DISCUSSIONS ON REF CASE. BOTH OFFICERS AGREED TO ARRANGE ENTRY OF MOTHER AMICE 31 BASED ON OUR INTEREST THIS CASE.

2. CHIEF CCA/M PREPARING LETTER FOR SWISS AMBASSADOR IN CUBA STATING THAT MOTHER'S CASE REVIEWED AND PERMISSION HAS BEEN GRANTED FOR HER ENTRY TO U.S. LETTER WILL INCLUDE REQUEST FOR PRIORITY ACTION BASED ON POOR STATE MOTHER'S HEALTH.

SECRET

ST

8 JUN 66 132850

*HQS STATOS BUEDEN OF ALTION RE FIEF CASE NOU HAS with AMICS 31 AND KIN.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

Margaret Forsythe:now
WH/C/CA/DP
2931
2 June 1966

SECRET

DIE 09454

SECRET

JMWAVE

TYPIC AMSAFE AMICE

REFS A. UFGA 24861

B. JMWAVE 1135 (IN 25370)

1. REP B ENTRY REFUSAL FOR MOTHER ANICE-31 PER SECTION 212-A
   INDICATED DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE COMMUNIST PARTY MEEBERSHIP. REF A
   PARA 3 STATES POSSIBILITY DECEASED HUSBAND PLACED NAME ON PARTY ROLES.
   THERE NO EVIDENCE. IN FILES TO CONFIRM OR DANY AND HQS HAS NO BASIS FOR
   REQUESTING RK-OPENING OF CASE.

2. KUSODA SUGGESTS IT BEST FOR AMICE-31 AND OTHER RELATIVES OR
   KNOWLEDGEABLE PERSONS CONTACT LOCAL ODURGE OFFICE TASING AFFIDAVITS FROM
   PERSONS NOT IN WAVE AREA, LETTERS FROM BISHOPS MENTIONED REF A OR ANY
   OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS, EXPLAINING DACKGROUND AND ASCERTAINING WHAT
   FURTHER EVIDENCE MAY DE NECESSARY TO SECURE REVERSAL PRESENT DECISION.

3. WAVE MAY BE ABLE ARRANGE FAVORABLE RECEPTION ANICE PRESENTATION
   THROUGH ODORGE CONTACT OR AT LEAST STEER AMICE-31 TO SYMPATHETIC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

SECRET

PAGE TWO

OFFICIAL. HQS WILL FOLLOW UP WITH ODURGE AND ODACID HQS WHEN THERE ENOUGH EVIDENCE TO WARRANT RE-OPENING DISCUSSION AT THIS LEVEL BUT BURDEN OF ACTION NOW LIES WITH AMICE-31 AND KIN.

END OF MESSAGE

RE/COMMENT: Requests assistance in arranging entry of AMICE-31's mother barred under Section 212A of Immigration Law

C/WH/C/CA

OS/AAS (Mr. Knott by phone)

WH/C/MO (Mr. Chiocca in draft)

WI/C/CA/PP (Mr. Chaconas in draft) Thomas J. Flores
C/WH/C
William V. Broe
C/SED

WH/C/CI (Mr. Cutoro in draft)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

INDEX: YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. ☐
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE B TOTAL COPIES 1
X-REF TO FILE NO. ☐
FILE RIG ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐
SECRET
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8
FROM
Dissam Blal
ACTION WH/C-8
RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED
UNIT TIME DY
INFO FILE, VR, CI, CE/OPS, CE/OA

S E C R E T 262100Z CITE JMWAVE 1135 INGHURST ACTING
DIRECTOR
TYPIC AMSAFE AMICE
26 MAY 66 25370
REFERENCE: UFGA 24861

1. AMICE-31'S MOTHER (IDENTITY A OF REFERENCE),
   TELEPHONED HIM ON 13 MAY, READING LETTER FROM SWISS EMBASSY
   WHICH STATED THAI U.S. AUTHORITIES HAD DECIDED THAT SHE
   WAS INELIGIBLE FOR ENTRY INTO U.S. FURTHER CHECK WITH
   LOCAL ODACID OFFICE HERE REVEALED AGENT'S MOTHER REFUSED
   ENTRY ON BASIS OF SECTION 212 A OF IMMIGRATION LAW.

2. PER PARA 4 OF REFERENCE, STATION WOULD APPRECIATE
   HEADQUARTERS DISCUSSION OF CASE WITH ODACID AND ODURGE.

S E C R E T
31


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

1 Fill in Sectia back Detach back flap
and forward to RID

2 Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records
significant action taken or comments requir-
ing preservation

TO ACTION BRANCH

If the no and title shown are not proper,
insert proper file no below and forward
document to RID'AN

FROM:

RID: AN

FROFEN FILE NO

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

CONMENTS

| TO             | ROOM NO | DATE        | OFFICERS INITIALS |                                                                     |
| -------------- | ------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| WH/C/ES        |         | 6 april 66  |                   | Copy detained                                                       |
| WH/C/CA/PP     |         |             |                   |                                                                     |
| WH/CA/         |         |             |                   |                                                                     |
| 3-8-4466       |         |             |                   |                                                                     |
| WHK/ANTRE      |         |             |                   |                                                                     |
| WHK/MO         |         | 18 APR 1966 |                   | 3-10-We have pulled one copy of dispatch and attachments for sondy. |
|                |         |             |                   | uis/call 6 april 66                                                 |
| LWH/3 Colombia |         |             |                   |                                                                     |
|                |         | 18/4 CH     |                   | Copy for cerone                                                     |
| WH/E/CA/PP     |         |             |                   |                                                                     |
|                |         |             |                   |                                                                     |

261-284656

31 Mu Cl

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# DISPATCH

**TO** Chief, WH

**INFO** WH/C

**FROM** Chief of Station, JMWAVE

**SUBJECT** DYVOUR/JMDEVIL/
AMICE-31 Production

**ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES**

**CLASSIFICATION** SECRET

**PROCESSING**

1.  Attached is AMICE-31's report on the meeting of the Eighth Continental Council of the Confederacion Latinoamericana de Sindicatos Cristianos (CLASC, Latin American Confederation of Christian Trade Unions), held in Medellin, Colombia, from 5 to 14 January 1966.

2.  Since the Station has not received copies of any disseminations that may have been made from information cabled during the meeting at Medellin, no attempt has been made to prepare portions of AMICE-31's report for dissemination. If any of the report is disseminated at Headquarters, the Station would appreciate receiving copies, along with copies of any reports that may already have been disseminated on the meeting at Medellin, and any future disseminations on the CLASC.

3.  Also attached, under separate cover, is a copy of a report by Keith G. BONGIRNO which includes a list of AMICE-31's achievements at the meeting and his impressions of and attitudes toward certain delegates and issues.

"Canor D. Pimsler
for Philip G. ELMARD

Distribution:

3 - WH w/atts h/w, and u/s/c-AT'D RIDIAN

2 - WH/C w/atts h/w, and u/s/c

2 ATTS

201-284658

**DATE TYPED** 29 March 1965 **DATE DISPATCHED**

**DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER** UFGA-24874

**CLASSIFICATION** SECRET

**HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER** 201-294659


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SCA

February 7,1966

# PICO'S TRIP TO MEDELLIN

After reading Pico's report and talking to him twice I reached following conclusions:

## I ACHIEVEMENTS & Pica

1.  Achieved with the cooperation of Edgar Maduro to soften the anti-Us line in the Declaration of Principles and elimination of US name which was xx replaced by "imperialisms".

2.  Together with the Venezuelan delegates drafted the motion condemning the Tricontinental Conference. and participated actively in drumming up the support for this motion.

3.  Pushed thru the motion condemning Castro's regime.

4.  Excercised a strong anti-communist and anti-Castro influence among the delegates.

## II PICO'S IMPRESSIONS OF THE MEDELLIN MEETING

1.  Pico came back favorably impressed by strongly anti-communist stand of the delegates. He says that even if Maspere would try to cooperate with the commios the rank and file will not let him to do so.

2.  Pico noted only three rabid anti-US delegates : Miguel Cardoso(Accion Sindical Uruguaya), Diogenes Gutierrez(Federacion Istmeña de Trabajadores Cristianos -Panama) and Heliodoro Agudelo Rivera (Accion Sindical Antioqueña).

3.  Pico informs that Henry Molina(Sec.Gen.of Confederacion Autonoma de Sindicatos Cristianos CASC-D.R.) even if highly critical of US intervention in D.R. is an outspoken communist and he recommends him as a material for recruitment.

4.  Molina spoke very favorably of Conrado Rodriguez who during his stay in D.R. as FORDC delegate made an excellent impression and became good friend of CASC.

5.  It is evident from the briefing instructions received from HQ and cables received from "our man in Medellin" that a strong opposition to CLASC HQ stand (or Maspero's) to the new funding proposal by CISC and ISI was expected. Pico says that he could not discover such opposition and that three national unions which already applied for direct funding according to the instructions received from CISC quickly withdrew their application. Pico also did not note any "betrayal" on the part of Federacion Campesina.

Thus I see two possibilities : a) the opposition to CLASC HQ stand that all funding should go thru HQ was exaggerated b) Pico is considered as close [unclear] to Maspero and was not trusted by the opposition.

According to Pico the feeling was quite unanimous the the funding should go thru CLASC HQ and the CISC attempt of direct funding was resented as an effort to undermine CIASC Executive Committee.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

6. It looks that our friend who talked to Pico in Medellin and Bogota was disgusted because Pico was satisfied with the results of the meeting. Pico's satisfaction stemmed from the strong anti-Castro stand the Council adopted and it is obvious that the fusing problem so important to us could not x upset him.

7. Pico reports that there is a good chance that Dagoberto Gonzalez ( Sec.Gen.of Trabajadores Copeyanes) will be elected as CLASC president at the next CLASC Congress, According to him Jose Goldsack will become Treasurer and present treasurer Alfredo di Pacce will herd new CLASC office dedicated to raise funda from the LA affiliates.
   Pico considers Gonzalez as a staunch anti-communist and better disposed toward |
   than Raspero. He thinks that flanked by Gonzalez and Gold sack, Maspero wall not have so much to say and his power will be limited. Gonzalez is apparently a much more forceful personality than Goldsack, who doesn't have enough guts to oppose Maspero.

8. Pico believes that Maspero is less aggressive and anti-US as he used to be. He thinks that the pressure from CISC and ISI plus a strong anti-communist posture pf the affiliates accounts for this.

In the cables received from our Colombia office there is a strong criticism of Pico as a sort of Maspere's stooge. After discussiong this topic several times with Pico I think that his opinion of Maspero XX is s

educated
Maspero is a forceful, dynamic and well prepared leader. As an Argentine and ex-peronista he has more drive and is a better organizer than the others in CLASC. Besides he offers CLASC a promise of bringing CTG into an alliance with them, a feat which only he can accomplish. For Pico's taste Maspero is too demagogic and he doesn't like his anti-US and soft of commies attitude, however, Pico claims that Maspero lately is much more aware of commie danger. As Maspero is without doubt the most powerful single individual in CLASC and as Pico positi is weak(his Federation is not created yet and he has to be confirmed as Secretar General) he sees no use of bucking Maspere especially as no organized and strong opposition exists. Pico, however, would see with sympathy aspero power restricte or it will not bother him al all to see Maspero removed completely. But as long as he exists Pico believes that for his personal good and in order to be able te push strong anti-Castro stand(in which he is mainly interested) he has to work and live with Maspero.

This position impresses me as a sensible one.

### MISC. REMARKS

1. There is some inconsistence in the cables we received. In one of them Romano Tschumi, CLASC Executive Secretary for the Dutch Antilles and President of CEDEU is described as widely considered insignificant and unipresive element". In another cable this same Tschumie is quoted as a source (direct source not via Pico as Pico said that he didn't know about campesinos sold out) and as a new CLASC Asst Secretary General (Pigg also claims that he doesn't know about it even if he was criticisedbefore xxxkihaxxxx getting his info from such a lousy source as schunie).

2. Pico reports that in Caracas he met Carl Norden from ISI Benn office in CLASC office. Carlos Moris( vice-directors of Instituto do Estuilos Pociales de Caribe), Hariano Sonites (Centro Dodusentacion Caracas) Santiago Tortosa (Soe Gen of CODA), Seaquiol Borges (CIS) were also present. Nerdon reperted that the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

US Embassy in Bonn informed them on Sunday Jan. 16th in the morning about all important topics discussed, resolutions etc adopted in Kodeilin. while impressed by the fast work and correct reporting at Norien oxpressed his curiosity as, to how it was possible that the embassy in Bonn was so fast informed (NOTE : I am surprised even more that a blubber-mouth like Norden was informed about such reporti). The general consensus of the present was that CIA must have few men infiltrated among the delegates.....

3. According to the new by-laws Pico's Transport Federation(in formation) will have 3 votos during the next Congress, equal to other L.A. Foderations and national delegations. Threfore it is important for us that we continue to work with Pico.

4. Pico should also go to the CLASC meeting in Guatemala in March when the Central American Confederation will be created. CLASC also wants to create Contral American Transport Federation and there where Pico's presence is requested.

5. I asked Pico if his CLASC friends don't 'resent the fact that he works for FORDC. He said that this problem was solved once for ever. CLASC executives know that only two principal carrents exists among the Cuban exiled labers the batistian and the revolutionaries. The Batistianos are the Mujalistas of CIC aided by ORIT and CLASC is against the Mujalistas. They are in favor of the revolutionaries an they are in FORDC, which is the only really active exile labor organizations. CLASC leaders know that FORDC is being supported by the US government, but they accept it as a necessity and understand that it is inevitable as neither the batistianos er the communists will support it and CLASC has no funds to do so.

SUMMING UP

By no means I consider that Pico is an ideal agent. He aight be influenced or awed by Maspero. He also is sometimes impulsive and puts his foot in the mouth. On the other hand he is young, agressive, better educated than average Cuban labor loader He is accepted in CLASC, his organization ORT is a futk member and he will be the head of the Latin American Transport Federation which will give him following advantages : a) voice and 3 votes at CLASC meetings b) can influence CLASC decisions c) will bring strong anti-Castro and anti-communist influence d) will soften up antius outbursts 3) will report to us, even if we have to take his reliability wit a grain of salt.

NOTE: I forget to call your attention to the curious little item in Pico's repor

iHe advises that the Copeyanos gained the control of the Sindicato Portuario in Puerto Cabello wrestling it away from Correa after åt was found that 200,000 bolivares were missing from the treasury. Pico also reports that there are widespread rumors that Correa is living it up at the expense of the boycott and that he is blackmailing Spanish, Japanese and British embassies getting hard cash for not beycotting the ships......


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

UNCLASSIFIED TERNAL USE ONLY CON..JENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Ophonol)'

FROM:

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

EXTENSION NO.

DATE Att. # 2 to UFCA 24574

DATE 31 Mar 66

|          | DATE      | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment) |                                                                                         |
| -------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| RECEIVED | FORWARDED |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 1.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        | 201-284658                                                                              |
| 2.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        | SUBJECT: PICO-Ramen, Reinalde                                                           |
| 3.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        | REPORT (in Spanish) ON MEETING OF LATIN AMERICAN CONFEDERATION OF CHRISITAN TRADE UNION |
| 4.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 5.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 6.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 7.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 8.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 9.       |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 10.      |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 11.      |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 12.      |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 13.      |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 14.      |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |
| 15.      |           |                    |                                                                                                        |                                                                                         |


> [Figure: The word BULKY is stamped diagonally across the center of the document in large, bold letters.]

PALL RIO FLES EXT. 6869

FOR ATTACHMENTS. RECORDS

CENTER JOB NO. ES-28

BOX NO. 4

610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INILANAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2erback. Detach back flap.
2. Afov heat cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation. If hie no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN

FROM: RID/

PROPER FILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO          | ROOM NO | DATE        | OFFICERS INITIALS |               |
| ----------- | ------- | ----------- | ----------------- | ------------- |
| 1.          |         |             |                   |               |
| 2. SWH/C/MO |         | 14 APR 1966 |                   | copy attached |
| 3.          |         |             |                   |               |
| 4.          |         |             |                   |               |
| 5.          |         |             |                   |               |
| 6. WH/C/220 |         |             |                   |               |
| 8. US/AAS   |         | 10 MAY 1966 |                   |               |
| 9.          |         |             |                   |               |
| 10.         |         |             |                   |               |
| 11.         |         |             |                   |               |
| 12.         |         |             |                   |               |
| 13.         |         |             |                   |               |

2 to 5 can you handle this?

01s/catt

MICROFILMED
APR 12 1966

DU. MICRO. SER.

13 apves.

I copy retained by os/aos

19. MAY 1966

Dhrog in info that des Mana de La Paz Ramay Robes Rey, (without the de Pree) not otherwise identified and not me-mand identified. barten

![photo of table]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

X MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAR JUDGE INDDING

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

CMIG MICROFILM

SUBJECT: TYPIC/AMSAFE
Request for HQ Intercession to Facilitate Entry of Identity A

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

AR: See Paragraph 4 below

1.  Identity A, who is the mother of AMICE/31, a Station asset, has been twice denied permission to enter the United States as a refugee from Cuba. The local ODURGE office has stated that Identity A has been placed on a denied admissions list because of information supplied by ODACID.

2.  According to AMICE/31, Identity A applied for admission to the United States with her daughters, Identities B and C. Identities B and C received the necessary authorization on 24 February 1966 from the Swiss Embassy and arrived in the United States by air on 28 February.

3.  Identity A was the wife of Identity D, a member of the Cuban Communist Party for some twenty years, at the time of her first application to leave Cuba. Identity D died in October of 1965 and according to AMICE/31 lost his Communist Party membership card about a year prior to his death. According to AMICE/31, Identity A has never joined or been a member of the Communist Party although there is a possibility that her husband may have placed her name on the membership lists. AMICE/31 also stated that she has long been a practicing Catholic and that she is very anti-Communist. Sent as separate cover attachments are two statements from the Bishop of Cienfuegas and the Assistant Bishop of Havana testifying to her good character and to her standing as a practicing Catholic.

- Continued -

Attachments:

1. Identities, USC...

2. Letters, USC...

Distribution:

3 - WH/C w/atts USC

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUNBER:
DATE:
UPCA 24861
29 March 66

SECRET
201-284655


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET UFGA 24851

4. It is requested that Headquarters contact the appropriate ODACID and ODURGE officials for the purpose of removing Identity A's name from the denied admissions list since her close connection with a member of the Cuban Communist Party, which presumably was the basis of the derogatory information, is no longer a fact.

Sylvia B. Minetrin
Philip G. ELMARD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

SECRET
MICROFILMED
APR 1 2 1905

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
NO. 1 TO UFGA 24861

Identity A. Maria de la Paz *RAMON Rodriguez de *PICO
Calle Fomento No 506 Rpto Palatino, Cerro
Havana, Cuba
DOB: 14 November 1912 POB: Lima, Peru
Peruvian Citizen

Identity B. Regino Pico Valiente

Identity C. Sonia Pico Ramon

Identity D. Milagros Pico Ramon

![stamp that says "Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification"]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

TRANSLATION

ASSOCIATION OF
CUBANS IN EXILE
"Sevillane" Manor,
Los Almendros Avenue,
San Rafael de la Florida,
Caracas, Venezuela, (Phone:71.33.327

MICROFILMED
APR 1 2 1966
DOC MICRO. SER.

Caracas, March 11, 1966.

Department of State,
Washington, D.C.

Gentlemen:

By this means I am pleased to state that I know Mrs. Maria de la Paz
Ramón personally, whose son Reinaldo Pico Ramón worked actively for
Catholic Labor Youth in Havana, Cuba. I can assure you that Mrs. Ra-
món Rodríguez was never a Communist and that due to her opposition to
the regime she wishes to leave Cuban territory. She has always had de-
mocratic ideals.

Hoping that this Information may be of use to you, I remain,

Very truly yours,

(signed) Eduardo Boza Masvidal
Asst. Bishop of Havana, Cuba.

(There is a seal of the
Mission of Our Lady of Charity,
Caracas, Venezuela)

(This is a translation of the attached letter)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

# UNION
DE CUBANOS EN EL EXILIO
[photo description]

[photo description]

Señores:

Me es grato manifestarles que conozco personalmente a la Sra. Maria de la Paz Ramón Rodriguez, cuyo hijo Reinaldo Pico anda trabajando activamente en la Juventud Liberal. Puedo asegurar que la señora Dalia Rodriguez Rincon fue comunista y que ella persistió al que desea salir de Cuba, habiendo sido ella siempre portadora de ideas terroríficas.

Esperando que esta información quede de Uds. muy atentamente

Eduardo Roca Meridat
[photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

14-00000

A quien pueda interesar

La Habana, 23 de Febrero de 1986

Yo Monseñor Alfredo Muller Obispo de Cienfuegos por la presente *HAGO CONSTAR BAJO JURAMENTO* que la señora Maria de la Paz Leron Rodriguez a la cual conozco desde hace años asi como a sus hijos son de procedencia Catolica y con los cuales hube de tener tratos y conocimientos ya que pertenecia a los Grupos de Accion Catolica de mi Parroquia en el Carma " El Salvador del Mundo "

Atentamente.

Obispo de Cienfuegos


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

# SECRET

155.10  ALOTTED
CSBO

NO

UP FO

6205
FO FILE NO

AT 2025

DISSEM
CAS HID COPY

FILE VR RITIAN CSDO CA/PEG WH8 CI/CA

SECRET 162245Z OCT 69 CITE CARACAS/3820

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

DIDORIC JMDEVEL

REF: DIRECTOR 46526

1.  FIELD TRACES FIVE NO NEW INFORMATION SAVE FOR LOCAL ADDRESS AND JOUTED MEDIA CONNECTION PER
    (IN 05005)
    WH/MIAMI 4639; OTHER GENERAL, NONDEROGATORY TIDBITS.

2.  REGRET DELAY DETERMINING AMICE-31 CURRENT STATUS REGARDING CLASC. PROBLEM HAS BEEN IN LOCATING
    HIM FIRST THROUGH AMCLEVE-15, BOTH BEING MUTUAL FRIENDS, TO DETERMINE IF HE HAS ACCESS AND STATUS CLASC AFFAIRS
    MERITING STATION DIRECT FOLLOW-UP. SUBJECT REPORTEDLY INVOLVED IN CHURCH FUND RAISING WORK AND SPENDS
    CONSIDERABLE TIME AWAY FROM HOME. WILL ADVISE SOONEST BUT GIVEN DIFFICULTIES AMCLEVE-15 HAS HAD MERELY IN
    REACHING SUBJECT SINCE RECEIPT HVCW-8792, HAVE DOUBTS ON PROSPECIS FOR MISSION.

3.  FILE: 201-284658, X-REF: 200-124-192/3.

SECRET

MICROFILMED
NOV 3 1969
DOC. MICRO. SER.

US COPY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

# SECRET

30 September 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/CA

VIA: WH/COG

SUBJECT: AMICE/31 (201-284658)

1. It is requested that responsibility for AMICE/31 be transferred from WH/COG to CA/M, and that his OA be amended for a one-time reporting mission on the 20-24 October 1969 Quito meeting of the Council of the Latin American Confederation of Christian Trade Unions.

2. Caracas is being asked for unilateral traces and for determination as to whether AMICE/31's present employer, the Office of the Coordinator for Economic Affairs in Caracas, in an organ of the Venezuelan government or of the United Nations.

HENRY A. OZGA
Chief, Branch 4
Covert Action Staff

DDP/CA/PA: B. Bowen:bln (30 September 1969)

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - Addressee

1 - WH/COG

1 - WH/3/V

1 - 201-284658

1 - CA/CRU.

2 - CA-B-1

CA - 89 - 333


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

# SECRET

ORIG: Barbara Bowen
UNIT: CA/31
LXT: 6728
DATE. 30 September 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX NO INCC RETURN TO BRANCH FILE AID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FILE: v1/a/1, WH/2, CA/PEG, DOY, CITRES, CI/OA

TO: CARACAS
01 15 49Z Oct69
CITE DIRECTOR: 42602
DTDORIC JIDEVIL
REF: HVCW-8792 (19 SEPTEMBER 1969)

1. AMICE/31 OA NOW FOUR YEARS OLD. APPREICATE STATION TRACES SOONEST FOR UPDATING.

2. AMICE/31 ALLEGEDLY NOW EMPLOYED "OFFICE OF COORDINATOR OF ECONOMIC AFFAIRS" IN CARACAS. IF TRUE, IS THIS A VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT BODY OR PART OF THE UNITED NATIONS?

3. FILE: 200-124-192/3 AND 201-284658.

END OF MESSAGE

C/CA/BA +

WH/3/

WH/CA

C/WH

C/CA

CS COPY FILED IN 200-124-192/3 Pico:

FILE IN 201-284658

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)