2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

25 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Central Cover Staff

ATTENTION: Charlie Danish

SUBJECT: Ross CROZIER

REFERENCE: SAS Memorandum Dated 14 May 1963

1. Referenced memorandum requested the Subject be provided with military cover while assigned in the Headquarters area for operational and credi: purposes in the performance of his duties with SAS. It is understood that your office was reluctant to issue the Subject the necessary military cover because he was physically located in a DODS office which was under commercial cover.

2. As indicated verbally on 24 June 1963, SAS will move the Subject out of the DODS area on 26 June. SAS has also requested suit- able office or apartment space through the Office of Logistics from which the Subject will operate in the future. Until this property is acquired, the Subject will perform his duties from his home. Consequently, it is requested that immediate attention be given to providing the Subject with the necessary military cover. Refer any questions to Q. A. LADNER, Jr., SAS/Security, ext. 5909.

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - SAS/Security

SAS/Security:GALadner:ftk - 25 June 1963

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, SAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

19 June 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Central Cover Staff
Room 1-B-24 Headquarters Building

SUBJECT : Request for Domestic Cover
Mr. Ross Lester Crozier

REFERENCE : Form 1322, forwarded to your Office,
14 May 1963

1. It is requested that this Office be advised as to the disposition of our request dated 14 May 1963 for providing Mr. Ross Lester Crozier appropriate Domestic Cover.

2. Since security requirements prohibit Mr. Crozier from being located in the Headquarters Building, he has been provided an office in the DODS Area. Subject needs "Cover" as soon as possible, for credit purposes, employment, etc.

3. Your prompt attention to this matter would be appreicated.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief, Special Affairs Staff

cc: DODS
DDP/SAS/PERSONNEL/J.ALBERT HOESER/Kct (19 June (63)

Distribution:
Orig 1)-Addressee
1- DOPS
1- SAS/Personnel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN TRIPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO: Central Cover Staff

THROUGH:

SUBJECT: Mr Ross Laster, Crosier

| ENTRY                                                                                                                                                                                                                             | DATE        |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------- |
| Inclusion of subject on the Domestic Cover List is requested for the reason noted below. When notified that cover has been established, subject will be specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation. | 14 May 1963 |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   | CHANGE      |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |             |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |             |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |             |

Subject is currently included on the Domestic Cover List. For the reason noted below, it is requested that

this employee be removed from the Domestic Cover List.

the following change be made:

REASON

Request subject be provided Military Cover (Army) while assigned in Headquarters Area for operational and credit purposes in performance of his duties with SAB.

Note: Subject was formerly under commercial cover at JMWAVE prior to January 1963.

COVER (Complete only for new entries)

| TYPE COVER IN USE  | TYPE SUGGESTED (Specify whether official or non- official) |     |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| IF NO COVER IN USE | JUSTIFICATION, IF NON-OFFICIAL COVER SUGGESTED             |     |
|                    |                                                            |     |

APPROVED BY CENTRAL COVER DIVISION

| SIGNATURE | REQUESTING OFFICIAL  |
| --------- | -------------------- |
| DATE      | ORVILLE C. DAWSON    |
|           | TITLE                |
|           | Chief, SAB/Personnel |

201-16881

FORM

7-58 1322 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

(When Filled in)

## DD/P PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

NAME: CROZIER, Ross

STATION H3.

AND DUTIES:

AGE: E? April 1963

DOB: 20 June 1922

PRIMARY CAREER CARSER AGENT

DD/P UNIT:

LESIGNATION:

PRESENT GRADE: GS-12

PROPOSED GRADE: NA

CIA TRAINING:

PRESENT T/O SLOT NA

NUMBER AND GRADE: NA

PROPOSED T/O SLOT NA

NUMBER AND GRADE: NA

EDUCATION:

Wife: Costa Rican citizen, D03: 15 Mar 1913

Son: D03: Sept 1949 U.S. Citizen.

DAU: FOB: 24 June 1951 - U.S. Citizen

LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY:

Spanish (Fluent - writing/reading/speaking)

ASSESSED:
DATE:
TYPE OF POSITION:
RESULTS:

EXPERIENCE PRIOR TO CIA (excluding SSU-OSS):

U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force, Tech Sgt. (1940-1945: Intelligence BC)) & (April 46 - Apr 49)

Leading man labor, $12.3% per day, US Naval Air Station, Coco Solo, Canal Zone;

(Jan. 194- April 1946).

SUMMARY OF CIA-SSU-OSS ASSIGNMENTS INCLUDING PREVIOUS GRADES AND DATES:

Contract and career agent since June 1949 - Intelligence assigments in Costa Rica,
Guatemala, and Jubas (Foreign Intelligence with some Psychological Warfare and
Paramilitary) FI mission with Castro's forces in Sierraestra (April 58).

Mexico City Jan 59 to May 1960; assigned to P PA-PROP from June 60 to Oct 61;
Assigned PCS SMWATE Oct 1 to Jan 1963. (Case Officer on student project involving
propaganda and area intelligence collection & network operation; CO on press
placement and press collection project).

RECOMMENDED BY:

RECOMMENDATION OF CAREER SERVICE BOARD:

CONCURRENCES:

201-16881

FORM NO.

1 MAR 57 965 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# TRAVEL ORDER

**SECRET**

NAME: Mr. Foss L. Crozier

OFFICIAL STATION: Washington, D. C.

OFFICE PHONE: 6576

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.: SAS-473-63

GRADE: Career Agent

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE:

From Washington, D. C. to NYC for approximately three (3) days TOT and return.

MODE: Air tourist/ce

PURPOSE: Operational contacts

TRAVEL DURATION: 19 Mar 63 / 22 Mar 63

DOMESTIC: 16.00

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE: MAXIMUM / OTHER (See below)

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE: CENTS PER MI. NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER / CENTS PER MI. AS MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO GOV'T.

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED:

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL: $100.00

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY: TRANSPORTATION REQUEST / CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS AUTHORIZATION: SHIPMENT / NON-TEMPORARY STORAGE. SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED. EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED. ACCOMPANIED LBS. AND MODE / UNACCOMPANIED LBS. AND MODE

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO. 473-63

CHARGE COST CENTER NO. 3132-1000-1000

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER / FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS / ADVANCE RETURN

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED: YES $100.00 / NO

SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER:

REQUESTING OFFICIAL:

SIGNATURE: Vincent J. Beyman, Chief

COMPONENT: SAS/Support

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL:

TYPED NAME AND TITLE: Desmond Fitzgerald, Chief

COMPONENT: SAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

13 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division
Chief, Staff Agent Accounts Section

THROUGH: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Reassignment of Career Agent -
Harold R. NORMAYE

This is to advise you that Career Agent Harold R.
NORMAYE[^1] is reassigned PCS from JHAVE to the Washington,
D. C. area on 21 January 1963.

![signature of Howard J. Osborn, Chief, SAS/Support]
HOWARD J. Osborn
Chief, SAS/Support

DDP/SAS/Personnel/John H. Martin/kct (13 Mar 63)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CPD
1 - SAS/Pers

201-168881

[^1]: NORMAYE is circled with pen.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)