# 104-10290-10190 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIORITY MUNI
ROUTINE

LULI FAME OSLO BRIK TEEΣ TUNE MANI BEEN HEID PARI CAIR ACCA C
FROG 2008 ATHE JILD LECP ESGO MEXI GEVA ANDA RAHI PRET SING OULT
BORR AMΜΑ ΑΙΟΙ MELA OKIE PRAN LAND VIEN DAHAR KHAR
HAGU NARO BAGH NEED TELL HEAL MOD KNCO SJAN ADDI

PRABAND

WORLD BRIEF

(NORORN IN SLANTS. REMAINING INFO RELEASABLE TO LIAISON.)

1. BERLIN: THE COMMUNISTS VIEW AS "OFFICIAL" THE TALKS BETWEEN

EANT AND WEST BERLIN NEGOTIATORS WHICH ACHIEVED, THE AGREEMENT ON

CHRISTMAS POSSER AND CONSIDER THEM A BOOST TO SCOR'S "FREE CITY

PROPOSAL FOR WENT BERLIN. WILLY BRANDT ON THE OTHER HAND PURGAIDS

THEN AS CALY "TECHNICAL" AND AS NO SEYBACK TO HIS STATURE IN WEST

GERMAN POLITICS

2. YUGOSLAVIA: //TITE) 15 APPARENTLY NO LONGER DEEPLY INVOLVED IN

ADMINISTRATION OF YUGOSLAV AFFAIRS. HE HAS EXHIBITED, LACK OF

KHOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF A NUMBER OF FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES ANTE

JAS BIKE DIVESTING HIMSELF OF RESPONSIBILITIE

THO RESPONSIBLE

OFFICIALS HAVE EXPRESSED CONCERN THAT HIS FACHTIES HAVE DIMMED

3. FORTTI VIETNAM HEAVY PROPAGANDA KAPOASIS ON TUS TR

ARRIVERBABY ΟΙ ΤΗΣ ΝΑΤΙONAL FRONT FOR THE 11USHALL os sort SLSTKAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

20 Dec 63 00 472

SIG CEN

90407

(PAGE TWO)

SUGGESTS A GROWING CONFIDENCE IN HANOI THAT INSURGENTS CAN SUSTAIN AND IMPROVE THEIR POSITION DESPITE US BACKING OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE GOVERNMENT. (CONF)

4 CUBA: COASTAL DEFENSE CRUISE MISSILES NOW ARE PART OF THE CUBAN ARTILLERY FORCES, (REPORTEDLY). CUBAN, INVOLVEMENT IN THE SOVIET-DOMINATED AIR DEFENSE SYSTEM IS ALSO INCREASING A SOVIET SO-1-CLASS SUBCHASER HAS ARRIVED IN CUBAN WATERS AND TWO OTHERS ARE PROBABLY EN ROUTE.

5. USSR: KHRUSHCHEV'S LONG-RANGE PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE SOVIET CHEMICAL INDUSTRY IS TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY RETRENCHMENT IN OTHER PARTS OF THE ECONOMY DURING THE NEXT TWO YEARS. HOUSING, CONSUMER SERVICES, AND SOME HEAVY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION ARE TO BE AFFECTED, AND IT SEEMS LIKELY THAT THERE WILL BE A SLOWING IN THE RATE AT WHICH MILITARY EXPENDITURES HAVE INCREASED SINCE 1960

6 ITALY: DOUBTS ABOUT THE MORO GOVERNMENT'S VIABILITY HAVE SUBSIDED SOMEWHAT AS A RESULT OF STRONG VOTE OF CONFIDENCE IT RECEIVED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

(PAGE THREE)

SUPPORT ON THE CONFIDENCE VOTE. MORO'S POSITION IS FIRMER BECAUSE OF THIS AND BECAUSE OF THE VATICAN'S PRESSURE ON CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS RIGHTWINGERS NOT TO BREAK PARTY UNITY (CONF)

7. CUBA: THE CASTRO REGIME SEEMS INTENT ON CULTIVATING AFRICAN COUNTRIES AS WAY OF LESSENING ITS ISOLATION FROM THE FREE WORLD. AN EMBASSY IN TANGANYIKA INDICATES THIS. IN ADDITION, CUBA HAS, DURING THE PAST MONTH, EXPANDED CONTACTS WITH NINE COUNTRIES SOUTH OF THE SAHARA. THERE IS ALSO REASON TO SUSPECT AFRICANS GOING TO CUBA ON SCHOLARSHIPS ARE GETTING TRAINING IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TECHNIQUES.

8. UK://BRITISH FOREIGN POLICY UNDER THE DOUGLAS-HOME GOVERNMENT INCREASINGLY FOCUSED ON KEEPING THE EAST-WEST DIALOGUE OPEN AND IMPROVING RELATIONS WITH WEST GERMANY. BOTH SIR ALEX AND FOREIGN SECRETARY BUTLER ESPECIALLY DETERMINED TO KEEP EXPLORING AREAS FOR POSSIBLE AGREEMENT WITH MOSCOW -- A POLICY WHICH PAID OFF HANDSOMELY FOR CONSERVATIVES IN ELECTIONS OF 1955 AND 1959. MAIN OBJECTIVE - BUTLER'S RECENT VISIT, BONN WAS TO SOUND OUT GERMAN REACTION TO SUCH BRITISH INITIATIVES.

9. BRITISH GUIANA. JAGAN AND HIS LIEUTENANTS HAVE BEEN ATTACKING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

14-00000

90407

(PAGE POOR)

THE UK AND US IN INCREASINGLY VITRIOLIC TERMS.

PARALYZED BY INTERNAL DIVISIONS AND IN UNDECIDED WHETHER TO CONTEST THE PUS-IMPENHORSE ELECTIONS SET FOR NEXT YEAR OR TRY TO BLOCK THEM BY RESORTING TO VIOLENCE. OPPOSITION PARTIES, MEANWHILE HAVE DONE LITTLE TO COOPERATE AGAINST JAPAN BEYOND REACHING A TENTATIVE AGREEMENT NOT TO ATTACK EACH OTHER PUBLICLY.

10. FRANCE: PARIS IS TRYING TO PROMOTE TRADE WITH COMMUNIST CHINA BY ENCOURAGING PRIVATE FIRMS TO DEVELOP NEW MARKETS THERE.

THERE ARE BUILT IN LIMITATIONS TO THE EXTENT THAT FRENCH-CHINESE TRADE CAN GROW, COMPLEMENTARY PRODUCTS ARE FEW, AND CREDIT PROBLEMS CONTINUE TO LIMIT PURCHASES BY CHINESE WHO SEEM PRIMARILY INTERESTED IN OBTAINING FRENCH TECHNICAL SKILLS. PARIS INTEREST IN CHINESE TRADE AND EXPANDED CULTURAL CONTACTS WITH PEIPING HAVE STIMULATED SPECULATION THAT SOME SORT OF DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION IS IN THE OFFING. THIS IS STOUTLY DENIED AT ALL LEVELS OF FRENCH GOVERNMENT.

11. FINLAND: FOR SECOND TIME IN FOUR MONTHS FINLAND IS GOING THROUGH A CABINET CRISIS BROUGHT ON BY DISAGREEMENT WITHIN THE RULING COALITION OVER DOMESTIC LEGISLATION. A NON-POLITICAL GOVERNMENT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

(PAGE FIVE)

0 CIVIL SERVANTS, HEADED BY ECONOMIST REIMO LEHTO, HAS BEEN APPOINTED TO SERVE UNTIL THE PRESENT CONTROVERSY IS RESOLVED. ALTERNATIVE SOLUTIONS SEEM LIMITED TO AGRARIAN MINORITY GOVERNMENT. RECONSTITUTION OF AGRARIAN-DOMINATED COALITION OR AS A LAST RESORT.

GENERAL ELECTIONS. WHATEVER THE OUTCOME, PRESIDENT DEKKONEN DESIRE
(CONTINUE)
TO IMPROVE RELATIONS. MOSCOW CAME OUT AGAIN DURING HIS TRIP TO THE USSR.

12. SOUTH KOREA: PRESIDENT PAK CHONG-HUI'S DOMINATION OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY INAUGURATED ON 17 DEC UNDER SOUTH KOREA'S NEW CONSTITUTIONAL REGIME MAY TRANSFER POLITICAL INFIGHTING TO A NEW ARENA. THE CONTROVERSIAL FORMER SECURITY CHIEF KIM CHONG-PIL CONTROLS THE PARTY APPARATUS, AND HIS MANY ENEMIES ARE LIKELY TO TRY TO USE THE LEGISLATIVE PROCESSES TO TRY TO WREST POWER FROM HIM. PRESIDENT PAK STILL BACKS KIM, HOWEVER, AND THEY AND THEIR COHORTS WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE THE GOVERNMENT'S MAJOR DECISIONS. THE CABINET HEADED BY CHOE TU-SON APPEARS TO HAVE BEEN CHOSEN WITH A MIND TO BALANCING FACTIONAL AND SECTIONAL INTERESTS AND FOR AN ABILITY TO CARRY OUT RATHER THAN FORMULATE POLICY. WITH ELECTIONS OVER, THE REGIME IS

![signature]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO (PAGE SIX) CITE DIR: 90407

LIKELY TO SPEED DECISIONS ON LONG OUTSTANDING QUESTIONS. A STAGNANT ECONOMY BESET BY INFLATION IS THE MOST PRESSING ONE. DISCONTENT WITH RISING PRICES EXTENDS INTO THE ARMED FORCES. PAK IS ALSO ANXIOUS TO CONCLUDE THE TEN-YEAR OLD NEGOTIATIONS FOR A NORMALIZATION OF RELATIONS WITH JAPAN. (CONF)

13. TURKEY: THE THREE-WEEK OLD CABINET CRISIS APPEARS TO BE APPROACHING A CLIMAX FOLLOWING THE FAILURE OF BOTH MAJOR PARTIES TO BRING MINOR PARTIES INTO COALITION ARRANGEMENTS. ONLY A COALITION BETWEEN THESE TWO, PRIME MINISTER INONU'S REPUBLICAN PEOPLE'S PARTY AND THE JUSTICE PARTY, OR A "NATIONAL COALITION" OF ALL POLITICAL GROUPS, REMAINS TO BE TRIED. DESPITE THE DEEP DIFFERENCES, AN ASSOCIATION BETWEEN THE TWO MAY PROVE FEASIBLE, FOR THE POLITICIANS FEAR THAT EXTENDING THE CRISIS MUCH LONGER MIGHT PROVOKE MILITARY INTERVENTION. (CONF)

14. CONGO: //THE ADOULA REGIME'S POSITION REMAINS PRECARIOUS. ITS EXTREME LEFTIST OPPONENTS JOINED IN A "COMMITTEE OF NATIONAL (CWL) LIBERATION" CONTINUE TO PLOT AGAINST IT FROM THEIR BRAZZAVILLE BASE THOUGH SOMEWHAT CRIPPLED BY LEOPOLDVILLE'S EXPULSION OF THEIR SOVIET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

( PAGE SEVEN )

EMBASSY CONTACTS. THE EXILES HAVE SENT EMISSARIES ABROAD TO SEEK FUNDS AND ARMS. THEIR PLANS REPORTEDLY INCLUDE ASSASSINATION OF LEOPOLDVILLE LEADERS, AN INVASION OF THE CONGO, AND INSTIGATION OF A COUP BY THE CONGO ARMY. THE WEAKNESS OF THE LEOPOLDVILLE REGIME, ESPECIALLY THE QUESTIONABLE RELIABILITY OF GENERAL MOBUTU'S ARMY, CLEARLY ENHANCES THE CHL PROSPECTS. LAST MONTH MOBUTU AND SURETE CHIEF NENDAKA, THE REGIME'S TWO KEYSTONES, WERE WAYLAYED BY SOLDIERS AND NEARLY KILLED. STUDENT AGITATION MAY BECOME A FACTOR IN VIEW OF THE CLOSE CONNECTIONS TO STUDENT GROUPS OF TWO HIGH OFFICIALS RECENTLY OUSTED - FOREIGN MINISTER MABIKA-KALANDA AND LONDON CHARGE THOMAS KANZA IN THE NEWEST DELIBERATIONS TOWARD WRITING A CONSTITUTION. PROVINCIAL VOICES DESIRING A LOOSE ARRANGEMENT APPEAR STRONGER THAN SUPPORTERS OF ADASI FOR A STRONG CENTRAL GOVERNMENT.

// LAOS // RIGHT-WING AND NEUTRALIST MILITARY FORCES, ENCOURAGED BY RECENT SUCCESSES IN CENTRAL AND NORTHERN LAOS, ARE CONSIDERING PLANNING MOVES AIMED AT CAPITAL, VIENTIANE.

MERRIGED KIENG KHOUTO AND FUND FOR SOUTH OPERATIONS AGAINST COMMUNIST SUPPLY ROUTES FROM NORTH VIETNAM COMBATANTS CONTINUALLY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

HUIN CS FILE NOU

INFO

(PAGE EIGHT)

90407

HAVE RECAPTURED THE KEY ROAD JUNCTION OF LAK SAC, HOWEVER, AND RETAIN THE CAPABILITY TO MAKE SHARP COUNTERMOVES ELSEWHERE. THE CONTINUING MILITARY NEGOTIATIONS BETWEEN PATHET LAO AND NEUTRALIST FACTIONS HAVE BEEN MARKED BY ACRIMONIOUS EXCHANGES, BUT THE PATHET LAO HAVE EXPRESSED NEW INTEREST IN ARRANGING A MEETING BETWEEN THEIR CHIEF PRINCE SOUPHANNOUVONG AND PREMIER SOUVANNA PHOUMA TO ARRANGE FOR FULL PATHET LAO PARTICIPATION IN THE COALITION GOVERNMENT. COUP RUMORS, MOSTLY CENTERING ON PLANS BY RIGHT-WING MILITARY ELEMENTS ALLIED WITH THE SANANIKONE CLAN, CONTINUE TO CIRCULATE IN VIENTIANE.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)