# Chapter 3

Page 13 - Refers to deep cover personnel income offset against CIA salary and to CIA officers under light cover protected by diplomatic or official passports.

Page 14 - Refers to laundering of CIA salary before deposit to personal bank account.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

- 4 -

## Chapter 5

Contains detailed references throughout to Winston Scott, identified as chief of station, Mexico City. Central Cover Staff points out that Mr. Scott, who was never officially acknowledged as a CIA employee, retired under State Department cover in Mexico, where he subsequently died and where his widow and children still reside.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

- 5 -

## Chapter 7

Page 29 et. seq. - Discussion of cover

Pages 44-49 - Identifies ("Camp Perry" 99 as a CIA training establishment, discusses training cover and Department of Defense cover. Central Cover Staff asserts that while the CIA auspices of (Camp Peary) has been often alleged in the press, the Agency has never confirmed it as a fact.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

- 6 -

# Chapter 8

Pages 2, 3 - Discussion of cover.

Page 4 - Reference to CIA/State ground rule that ambassadors are not necessarily informed about deep cover officers.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Chapter 9
Page 37 - As written, passage in first full paragraph could endanger a particular source, according to NE Division, which suggests the following modification:

...unexpected development. From surveilling the group's movements it was established that the intention was to travel to an adjoining area, where a major energy installation, we assumed, might be their target. CIA, through liaison, warned the authorities of that country and appropriate defense measures were taken. I instructed the CIA Station in Costa Brava to advise the president that the terrorists might be using his country as...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

- 8 -

Pages 38-41:

LA Division recommends that the passage on the ter-
rorist kidnapping in the Dominican Republic be deleted
for the following reasons:

1) This incident is still fresh in the minds
   of most Dominicans and it is unrealistic to assume
   that it will not be picked up and published in the
   local press. Barbara Hutchison, USIA, one of the
   people kidnapped, is still in the Dominican Republic
   and, according to two recent reports, is again being
   considered as a target for kidnapping. The potential
   for terrorist acts against US citizens continues;
   three leaders of terrorist-oriented groups are in
   prison and publication of this item could propel the
   terrorists into action.

2) The close link between the ambassador and
   the station, as portrayed in the book could be pre-
   judicial to his public image and might even provoke
   the terrorists to target against him.

3) The station has renewed a (liaison) relation-
   ship and much effort is being directed toward deve-
   loping mutual confidence. Revelation of details of
   a (joint operation) by a former division chief might
   lead the increasingly friendly (Liaison contacts) to
   wonder whether we can maintain confidence on future
   operations and thereby throw the new relationship
   into jeopardy.

4) Although the bugging of the thermos was
   discovered and appeared in the press, the use of
   the Coca Cola case was not exposed and therefore
   continues to be an operational possibility, at least
   as far as the Dominican Republic is concerned.
   Revelation of the technique by Agee should not be
   a criterion for further disclosure.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)