2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMCANOE

Job # 65-535/28

File # 19-6-91

Dates included:

Volumes: 11

1. Description:

This project concerns U.S. contacts for a resistance group in Cuba. Support of the Unidad de Liberacion Nacional (ULN) and their plans and efforts to overthrow CASTRO.

Principle players are:

AMCANOE-1 (201-0283570) Eduardo GARCIA Molina

AMCANOE-2 (201-0726572) Enrique Alfredo GARCIA Molina

AMCANOE-3 (201-0727185) Antonio Jose RAMIREZ Mendez, captured and executed in Jan 64;

AMCANOE-4 (201-0729621) Armando SOSA Rodriguez

AMCANOE-5 (201-0727186) Marcelino PEREZ Diez

AMCANOE-6 (201-0729610) Orlando OROPESA Perez

AMCANOE-7 (201-0729080) Benjamin ACOSTA Valdes, captures tried and killed by firing squad 15 Sept 63.

AMCANOE-9 (201- ) Juan AMESTOY Dominguez, killed 29 Sept 63 in a gun battle.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

2. Review of these files turned up the following documents:

TDCSDB-3/654-571, dated 9 May 63: Concerns efforts of Cuban lawyer Paulino A SIERRA of Chicago to unify exiles and an offer by Chicago businessmen to support the overthrow of CASTRO.

Memo for the Record dated 3 March 1964: a friend of AMCANOE-1 who is a businessman and ship owner, with interests in a slot machine business (placing them in gambling houses), placed him in contact with elements of the underwrold, through a former St. Louis police officer. Through the police officer there was reportedly a tie-in with the Cosa Nostra. The latter reportedly offered to assassinate CASTRO at a price of $150,000 dollars.

UFGA-15233, dated 15 April 1964: Report on a Byron CAMERON who said that he represented an unidentified group of persons who had made contact with two Cuban gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel CASTRO. CAMERON reportedly was associated with a Mr. S.W. TYLER (no identifiable traces) of Caribbean Producer, Inc., Miami Springs, Fla., and Herbert F. JENNE (no traces) with the firm F.A. Johnson, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

UFGA-15954, dated 11 May 1964: CAMERON mentioned contact with unidentified group willing to assassinate selected Cuban leaders: Fidel CASTRO, Raul CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. CAMERON made fairly clear that the MAFIA was involved.

Jane Zerance
Researcher


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)