# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEMENTE
201-300,985
VOL. II

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               | 8/16/79       |                          | PMON                            |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

STATE DEPARTMENT DOCUMENTS

DATS: 25 AUGUST 1977 FROM AMENBASSY CARACAS (CARACAS 8438)
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: GOV CHARGES "CUBANA AIRLINER: DEFENDANTS WITH MILITARY CRIMES

FROM AMERBASSY CARACAS
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
DATE: 9 MARCH 1977
SUBJECT: ORLANDO FOSCH AND THE LETELIER ASSASSINATION
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL/NOFORN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

FBI DOCUMENT CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 8 JUNE 1977

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: SALVADOR ALDEREGULA; ESPIONAGE - CUBA - PANAMA

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FBI Document
Date: 15 February 1977
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CCORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)
NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA (ANTI-CASTRO).
No File Number


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

State Department Cable
Date: 22 January 1977
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CHARGE THAT POSADA IMPLICATED IN CIA PLOT TO KILL
CASTRO PUBLISHED
CARACAS 0680


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLL THING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FL IM AVITHEP OFFICIAL DO FILE. PERS INS EA572414G SAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOU-MENT FROM 141CH THIS EXTRACT AS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATICY PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM 10/FILES.

POSADA CARRILES, LUIS
201-0300985 022-009-028
SEX M CILL-00445/76.
23 DEC 76
P4

SUMMARY OF INFO TO FBI AND ARMY
INTELL-TERRORIST PLOTTING BY CURAN EXILES.

DATE 20 JUL 77 09526970

201-300985

SECPET E2 IMPOET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SCIE

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//INTELLIGENCE DIVISIO
U.S. ARMY INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FORT MEADE, MARYLANE//ATTN: MITA-52.4
C101-0495-74

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AIND
METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATICMLS--NOT
RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION
AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR.Y

SUBJECT: TERRORIST FLOTTING BY CUBAN EXILES: INFORMATION RELATING
TO ACTIVITIES OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND CONTES
REFERENCES: CIOL-0424-16 OF 11 DECEMBER 1976, SUBJECT AS ADOVER
FIRCI-312/03635-76 OF 6 DECEMBER 1976, SUBJECT "COOPERATION
MAINTAINED BY CERTAIN DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS AND ANTI-CASTRO
CUBAN FXTLES."Y

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATIO!! WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO
   ITS RESPONSE CALLAN OF TITELE TRENCE ON FOREIGN
   ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. ACCORDING TO A
   USUALLY RELIABLE DOMINICAN SOURCE WHO RECEIVED THE INFORMATION
   FPOIL A DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL, U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARHAND

'NKSCARI ET-3/201


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# OUTCOME MESSAGE

SCRET

CONF: INFO: FILE

CIA

962167

GISSEM BY:
PER

MONTES ATTENDED A MEETING OF ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES IN SANTO DOMINCO IN EARLY NOVEMBER 1976 AT THE HOME OF A FORMER SENATOR OF THE BATISTA GOVERNMENT. MONTES CAME TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TO ACQUIRE DOMINICAN SUPPORT FOR THE "CRUSADE AGAINST CASTRO" AND NOTED THAT CUSAN EXILE'S IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND DOMINICAN MILITARY AND CIVILIANS WERE WILLING TO COOPERATE. THE LIAISON MAN BETWEEN THE VARIOUS ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILES IS JUAN (OR JOSE) ANTONIO PRAT WHO APPARENTLY RESIDES IN MIAMI.

CHEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PRAT MAY POSSIBLY BE ANTONIO PRAT BARROSO, A VETERAN OF THE BAY OF FIGS INVASION.34

2. ACCORDING TO THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE COLONEL, A MEETING TOOK PLACE WHEN ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST LEADER, STILL LIVED IN SANTO DOMINGO TO DISCUSS VARIOUS TERRORIST PLANS. THE LATTER INCLUDED PLACING BOMBS ON CUBAN AIRCRAFT AND AT CUBAN DIPLOMATIC MISSIONS: SABOTAGING CUSAN AND SOVIET SHIPS: KIDNAPPING THE CUSAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED NATIONAL AND KILLING HIGH-LEVEL CUBAN OFFICIAL CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ IN LISBON (SICO). PARTICIPANTS AT THIS MEETING INCLUDED BOSCH AVILA:

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

CO.: INFO: FILE CIA

91-2167

JUAN EDUARDO PEREZ FRANCO, A CUBAN EXILES EX-BRIGADIER GENERAL SALVADOR LLUBERES MONTAS, FORMER CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCES COLONEL ABREU (FNU) OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCES JOSE CUBA DURRI (PHONETIC), FERNANDO MUNIZ. A DOMINICAN RAUL (OR RUDEN) SLINDER (PHONETIC), A DOMINICAN AND LUIS POSA CORPEZA OR POSADA.
PETER (OR PEDRO) MARTINEZ WAS MENTIONED AS A COORDINATOR OF ONE OF THE PLANNED TERRORIST ACTS.

3. (FIELD COMMENT: AIR FORCE COLONEL ABREU MAY BE EITHER COLONEL JUAN DISLA ABREU, COMMANDER OF THE NORTHERN ZONE, OR GENERAL ELADIO MARMOLEJOS ABREU COMMANDER OF THE SAN ISIDRO AIR FORCE BASE WHO IS A CLOSE FRIEND OF FORMER GENERAL LLUBERES MONTAS. FERNANDO MUNIZ IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH THE RIGHTIST DOMINICAN LABOR LEADER OF THIS NAME.) HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: JOSE DADURRI IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH JUAN JOSE BUTTARI CRESPO, BORN 22 NOVEMBER 1933, HAVANA, A VETERAN OF THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. PETER MARTINEZ MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH PEDRO CELESTINA MARTINEZ GARCES. BORN 19 MAY 1924.

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE CIA 962167

DATAGANO, CUBA, CAPTURED DURING THE DAY OF PIGS INVASION AND SUBSEQUENTLY LIBERATED. LUIS POSA MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH LUIS POSADA CARRILES WHO WAS ARRESTED BY THE VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES WITH BOSCH AVILA FOR HIS INVOLVEMENT IN CONNECTION

4. THIS AGENCY CONTINUES WILLING TO ASSIST IN WHATEVER ACTION ADDRESSEES MAY WISH TO TAKE. PLEASE ADVISE US OF THE RESULTS OF YOUR INVESTIGATIONS.

5. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2-B
   BASED ON: SANTO DOMINGO 17932 [IN 132225]

SANTO DOMINGO 17938 [IN 133364]

SOURCE: EMKAGO: EMFIST-1 FROM COLONEL USINO GUZMAN LIRIANO
FILE: 22-9-26 AND 201-742365.

DATE: 22 DEC 76
ORIG: VIVIAN CARDELLA
UNIT: LASCAR/DRH/R
EXT: 3349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

STAFF

TO: CARACAS, SANTO DOMINGO. Y

UNINTEL RYBAT NHSPIKE Y

REFS: A. CARACAS 31765 [IN 1363391]

B. SANTO DOMINGO 17938 [IN 1333841] Y

1. WE HAVE NOT YET DETERMINED IF LUIS POSADA CARRILES (201-0300985) IS A U.S. PERSON. THIS IS A COMPLICATED ISSUE AND REQUIRES FUTHER INVESTIGATION AT HAS. OUR LATEST INFO FROM ISNS IS THAT HIS RESIDENT ALIEN STATUS WAS TERMINATED AT OUR REQUEST BECAUSE OF HIS 30 JUNE 1974 DECISION TO STAY IN VENEZUELA. Y

2. DUE TO COMPLEXITY OF SITUATION INVOLVING POSADA AND CUBAN EXILE MATTERS IN VENEZUELA, HQS FEELS INVESTIGATION OF POSADA (UNILATERAL OR LIAISON) MIGHT CAUSE PROBLEMS FOR CARACAS STATION. THEREFORE REQUEST CARACAS TAKE NO ACTION AT THIS TIME ON REF B REQUEST. Y

3. FILE: 200-6-484; 201-0742365; 201-0300985. E2 IMPDET.H

LA COMMENT: POSADA IS FORNER WKSCARLET-3, CABAN AGENT WITH VENEZUE- LAN CITIZENSHIP, WHO WAS A HIGH-LEVEL DISIP (CIVILIAN INTEL) OFFICIAL. HE HAS BEEN ADDOCIATED WITH PERSONS IMPLICATED IN CUBANA BOMBING OF L OCTOBER.

DATE: 22 DEC 76

ORIG: G.VICKERS:PM

UNIT: LA/PNC/V

EXT: 1719

AC/LA/CAR--L.THERRY (DRAFT)

AGC--TONY GOLDEN (DRAFT)

![signature]

![signature]

AC/LAD

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CROSS FILE COPY FOR 201-3985

![signature]

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 007255


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSONIJUNIT NOTIFIQ

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED BLOPTED BY

ACTION UNIT
C/LAR
ACTION

RE FILE VR
DD03 SPC/ITY
USIA/FL

T 474963 EIA315

TOPALCOM 37/1
SECRET

UPTOMS JANE AL4/200
Jay JRPS/EG2
USIA c/DCAZ UPCS
PAGE 21-21

IN 136339
CARA 31765

SECRET 212234Z DEC 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31765

TO: DIRECTOR, SANTO DOMINGO.

WN INTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 17938 (IN 133384)

1. WE CAN TASK WKNORTH-6, LIAISON PENETRATION, WITH REF
   REQUIREMENT. HOWEVER, SINCE LUIS POSADA CARRILES MAY BE
   U.S. PERSON, WOULD LIKE TO BEFER TO HQS FOR READING UNDER
   E.O. 11905.

2. FILE: 220-6-484: 201-0742365. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER IH
IBRUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITI

STAFF

FILE
INFO

177/NL60

A6CD00 774 YSIA YSIA CATEL

T 456855: Ε14292
FAGE 01
IN 133384

TOR::719362 DEC 75
SDOM 17938

SECRET 1719162 DEC 76 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17938

TOI DIRECTOR. CARACAS

UNINTEL RYEAT NUSPIKE

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 17932

1. RE PARA 1 E, REF. STATION UNILATERNAL ASSET EMCLIPPER-1

REPORTS THAT VENEZUELAN CITIZEN LUIS P O S A D A ARRIVED

SANTO DOMINGO FROM CARACAS ON VIASA FLIGHT 4 JUVE AND DEPARTED

7 JUNE 1976. POSADA TRAVELLED ON A TOURIST CARD. POSADA

MATRONYMIC UNCLEAR. ENCLIPPER-1'S BES GUESS IS "GARR I00"

OR "CARRIDO" BUT HE THINKS THIS COULD BE WAY OFF.

2. CARACAS: REF REPORTED ON PARTICIPANTS IN MEETING

(DATE UNKNOWN) OF CURAN EXILE TETRORISTS IN SANTO DOMINGO.

NAME OF ONE OF THE PARTICIPANTS WAS REPORTED AS "LUIS P O S A.

PEZA OR POSADA". STATION ASSUMES THIS IS LUIS

POSADA CARRILES. 15 POSSISLE. WILL APPRECIATE CARACAS

CHECK TRAVEL OF POSADA ON 4 JUNE. NO OBJECTION CHECKING WITH

LIAISON.

FILE: 202-6-454 221-747365. 52. IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

17 December 1976

File EXSCARLAT-3

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

As a result of the request in CARACAS 31137, a check of I&NS records revealed the following regarding U.S. person, status of

1.  Orlando Garcia
    Became U.S. citizen on 11 October 1954.
    Lost U.S. citizenship when he became a citizen of Venezuela on 31 August 1962

2.  Luis Posada Carriles
    I&NS files contain a letter from CIA terminating his resident alien status because of his 30 June 1974 'decision to stay in Venezuela

3.  Ricardo Morales Navarrete
    Last admitted to US August 1, 1976 with a visitor's visa. (Address to be visited given as 8100 SW 4th St., Miami, Fla.) Does not have resident alien status. Was never naturalized.

hw


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

FBI DOCUMENT

CABLE
DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1976
(FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: UNSUBS: BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINES DC-8 NEAR BARBADOS, WEST INDIES,
OCTOBER 6, 1976, NEUTRALITY MATTERS - CUBA - WEST INDIES

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM : Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT : Information Regarding Anti-Castro
Figures Possibly Involved in Neutrality
Or Other Violations of Federal Law

REFERENCE : Memorandum from Director, FBI, to
Director, CIA, Dated 26 November 1976,
Same Subject

The referenced memorandum requested complete CIA
Information on some 92 principal anti-Castro figures who
are of investigative interest to the FBI. Attached here-
with are CIA traces on seven individuals mentioned in the
FBI listing. Data on the remaining 85 will follow sepa-
rately and incrementally as traces are completed.

CIR-316/04881-76

Classified by 09560. Exempt from General Declassification
Schedule of E.O. 11652, Exemption Category 5B (2). Impos-
sible to Determine Date of Automatic Declassification.

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

DDO/LA/OPS/W.Carley:lch (7 Dec 76) (1173)

Distribution:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

1.  NOVO Sarpol, Guillermo. There is no information available on him beyond that provided this Agency by the FBI. There is no current or previous operational interest in this individual.

2.  NOVO Sampol, Ignacio. There is no information available on him beyond that provided this Agency by the FBI. There is no current or previous operational interest in this individual.

3.  LUGO Alejandrina, Freddy. There is no information available on him. There is no current or previous operational interest in this individual.

4.  RICARDO Lozano, Hernan. There is no information available on him. There is no current or previous oper- ational interest in this individual.

5.  BOSCH Avila, Orlando. This Agency was in contact with BOSCH in Miami from approximately January to November 1962. He was under consideration as an "external coordinator" in the Evelio Duque exile group. BOSCH was to assist the Agency and Duque in fornuiating operational plans for infil- tration (into Cuba) teams. BOSCil did obtain safehouses and procured food supplies for the teams. Available information does not indicate any Agency contact with BOSCH for this purpose subsequent to November 1962. Later, on 31 October and 1 November 1965, a representative of this Agency met in New York City with BOSCH twice. These two meetings were in connection with efforts by BOSCH to secure financial backing for air strikes (mounted irem Central America) against Cuba. BOSCii at this time was the General Coordinator of the in-surrectional Movement.

BOSCH was informed through an intermediary on either 2 or 3 November 1963 that no financial backing would be forthcoming. There is no available information to indicate any Agency contact with BOSCH subsequent to 1 November 1963.

6.  POSADA Carriles, Luis. POSADA arrived in the U.S. in February 1961 as a political refugee. Shortly after his arrival, he joined the 2500 trigade and received paramilitary training in Guatemala under Agency auspices in preparation for the Bay of Pigs invasion. POSADA received at least rudimentary familiarization training in demolitions, and was trained in usage of various hand-held weapons, in Guatemela. From March 1965 until March 1964 POSADA was in the U.S. Aray at Fort Benning, Georgia, finishing up as a Secord Lieutenant


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

and C...ting officer of a weapons platoon in a Ranger
battl... In the latter function, POSADA would very
likely have r.ceived demolitions training. In March
1965 P...A was recruited by the Agency to serve as a
Maritime .ramang Branch instructor in Florida. Information
at that tire indicated that he already was reported to be
a "demolitions expert". POSADA also was used as a source
of infer..tion on Cuban exile activities. In 1965 POSADA
was involved with Luis SIERRA Lopez who was working with
Roberto Miles Arzu, a Guatemalan who was attempting to
overthrow the Guatemalan Government. POSADA was of interest
to the SIERRA/ALEJOS group because of his knowledge of
demelitions and weapons. POSADA reported to the Agency
and later to the FBI, on his involvement in and the activities
of this group (and subsequent other Cuban exile activist
organizations with which he became affiliated). As of
August 1966 he was used solely as an informant on the activities
of the Cuban Representation in Exile (RECE), a Miami-based
exile group. POSADA was formally terminated in July 1967.
In August 1967 he was mentioned in a Havana Radio broadcast
as a liaison man between the Agency and RECE. In August
1967 POSADA moved to Caracasand secured a position with
DIGEPOL, the Venezuelan security service (now known as
DISIP). The Agency's Caracas Station hired POSADA as an
informant on DIGEPOL/DISIP activities, with secondary use
as a source on Cuban exile activities in Venezuela.
functioned in this capacity until 1974 when a change in
Venezuelan Government administration resulted in the loss
of his job with DISIP. He was formally terminated by Caracas
Station on 30 June 1974; however, occasional contact was
maintained with him at his initiative because of certain
outstanding U.S. Federal Income Tax problems POSADA had
because of his (then) status as a Permanent Resident Alien
of the U.S. In mid-February 1976, POSADA recontacted Caracas
Station to volunteer a report on the whereabouts of Orlando
BUSCH AVila, Frank CASTRO Faz, and on a threat to the life
of Salvador ALLENDE's nephew in Costa Rica. The final con-
tact between the Agency and POSADA occurred on 24 June 1976.
when he contacted the Caracas Station to request visa as-
sistance for his wife and himself; the assistance was denied.

7. CARBALLO Diaz, Roberto. CARBALLO received Agency
   paramilitary training as a member of the 2506 Brigade in
   preparation for the Bay of Pigs invasion. He was captured
   at the Bay of Pigs, and subsequently was released by the
   Cuban Government. Apart from the 2506 Brigade service, there
   is no available information to indicate any subsequent con-
   tact between the Agency and CARBALLO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

S. Agency traces on additional persons mentioned in the 26 November 1976 FBI memorandum to the Agency will follow separately.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

## Chief, Latin America Division

Chief of Station, Quito

RYBAT KMSTONE VWNOCK/NOC Byron W. GUTRADT's Fast_Contacts_with_ Orlando Bosch and WKSCARLET-3

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES & METHODS INVOLVED

1. We understand from press accounts that Orlando Bosch, WKSCARLET-3 and several other Cuban exiles were recently arrested and charged with the sabotage of a Cubana Airlines airliner on 6 October. After having read these accounts NOC Byron W. GUTRADT reported, for the record, that he once knew Bosch and WKSCARLET-3 in the early 1960's. GUTRADT met WKSCARLET-3 in 1964 when both were enrolled in OCS at Fort Benning, Georgia. GUTRADT at that time had already terminated his relationship with BKHERALD. While at OCS GUTRADT was not particularly close to WKSCARLET-3 but WKSCARLET-3 was generally knowledgeable of GUTRADT's back- ground and past BKHERALD activities. GUTRADT has not seen WKSCARLET-3 since 1964 after completion of the OCS course and doubts seriously that WKSCARLET-3 would remember him.

2. GUTRADT met Bosch circa 1963 in Miami when GUTRADT was training Bosch in a BKHERALD-sponsored program. Bosch only knew GUTRADT in alias. GUTRADT has not seen Bosch since completion of this training.

3. Given the length of time that has elapsed plus the lack of closeness to either WKSCARLET-3 or Bosch, GUTRADT and the Station do not believe that their knowledge of his past BKHERALD activities presents any security problems today. GUTRADT, of course, was unwitting of their alleged current activities and was surprised to hear of the bombing of the Cubana airliner.

Gerald R. GIZZI

Distribution:

3-C/LAD

B201-299292

HEQA-09809

15 Nov 76

201-300985


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

FORM JIT

CALL SEC DISSEY BY 291PER

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE CORK SSUFDSLOTTED LA

ACTION C/LAS

AF FILE VR C/P/AN, C/614, clops,
C/PS/EG2, Close, C/SIA 2, 0003

TOTAL COPES 34-3

CDUA 1947:

T367182 El A351

PAGE 01

TOR: 0919432 NOV 76

SECRET 09 19 214 NOV 76 STA FF

CITE CARACAS 31380

TO PRIORITY DIRECT UR.

UNINTEL RYBAT WKBOXER

REFI DIRECTOR 939719

NODUCTION BY OTHER THA'
ASSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

PRECEDENCE

IN 294881
CARA 31380

1. EVENING 8 NOVEMBER 1976 WKSCARLET-1 (W-1) MADE SURPRISE
   VISIT TO CONSULATE REQUESTING SEE BRADSPIES. IN TYPICALLY
   DEMANDING FASHION; WKSCARLET-1 SAID HE WANTED TO BE PUT IN
   CONTACT WITH MICHAEL C. CHOADEN AND WANTED BRADSPIES HELP
   IN OBTAINING BUSINESS VISA FROM CONSULATE. W-1 PREFACED
   HIS FIRST REQUEST WITH STATEMENT HE HAD BEEN PROMISED BY
   CHOADEN WHEN HE LAST VISITED THE HEADQUARTERS AREA THAT A
   BKHERALD REPRESENTATIVE WOULD CONTACT HIM FOLLOWING HIS RETURN
   TO CARACAS, AND THAT NO ONE HAD CONTACTED HIM. (FACT OF
   MATTER IS W-1 HAD EARLIER TOLD US THAT FOR SECURITY REASONS
   HE SHOULD ONLY BE CONTACTED AT HIS OFFICE. IMMEDIATELY
   FOLLOWING HIS RETURN FROM VISIT, HE CLOSED THE OFFICE AND
   DID NOT RESPOND TO ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT HIM.) W-1 AL SO
   SAID HE HAD TRIED TO GET HELP FROM LEGATT IN OBTAINING VISA
   BUT HAD BEEN TOLD "LEGATT NOT AVAILABLE".

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

FORM 5500
7-71 U.S. G.P.O. 2-7

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY: PI-4

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT

STAFF

ACTION UNIT RF. FILE VR.

ACTION #

T 367182 EIA351 PAGE 02 IN 094881-

TORI 09 19 432 NOV 76 CARA 31380

2. W-1 WAS TOLD THAT WE DID NOT KNOW THE PRESENT
   LOCATION OF CHOADEN AS HE HAD RETIRED BUT WOULD LOOK INTO
   THE MATTER. W-1 INDICATED HE WANTED THE VISA IMMEDIATELY
   (CONSULATE WAS OBVIOUSLY CLOSED WITH CHAR FORCE IN FULL
   SWING) AND WAS ASKED THE NATURE OF HIS BUSINESS VISIT. HE
   SEEMED TO RESENT THIS INQUIRY AND SAID NEVER MIND. HE WOULD
   VISIT THE CONSULATE HIMSELF ON 9 NOVEMBER AND MAKE HIS OWN
   APPLICATION. BRAD SPIES ASKED IF W-1 WOULD INDICATE A TIME
   FOR HIS PROPOSED VISIT AND VOLUNTEERED TO BE AVAILABLE TO
   PERSONALLY RECEIVE HIM. THPS SEEMED TO ANNOY W-1 EVEN
   FURTHERI HE THEN AROSE AND WALKED OUT OF THE CONSULATE WITHOUT
   ANOTHER WORD.

3. AS HEADQUARTERS AWARE: W-1 HAS IN PAST RETAINED
   PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS FIRM OF LUIS POSADA TO CON DUCT
   INVESTIGATIONS FOR W-1 AS SECURITY ADVISOR TO THE GUSTAVO
   VOLMER INDUSTRIALIST GROUP, WE HAVE SEEN OTHER AGENCY INFO
   THAT W-1 IS ACTUALLY A SHAREHOLDER IN POSADA'S INVESTIGATIONS
   FIRM. BUT POSADA NEVER LISTED W-1 AS AMONG PARTNERS HE
   IDENTIFIED TO US DURING OUR LAST FEW CONTACTS WITH HIM.
   WKNORTH-17 BELIEVES W-1 IS A BUSINESS PARTNER OF POSADA AND HAS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

CABLE SEC OSSEM BY: PER

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED:

ACTION UNIT: RF FILE VR

ACTION:

INFO:

T 36 71 82 EI A351 PAGE 03 IN 29 48 81

TORI0919432 NOV 76 CARA 31380

ALLEGED TO US THAT W-1 IS IN PART RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CUBANA AIRLINES BOMBING ON 6 OCTOBER, WE THINK THIS ALLEGATION WAS PART OF THE GOV INTENT TO TIE THE COPEI PARTY INTO THE BOMBING, BUT DO NOT KNOW WHAT EVIDENCE GOV MAY HAVE.

4. AMBASSADOR HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON PARA 1 AND 2 ABOVE. HAS STATED HE DOES NOT WANT STATION INVOLVED VISA MATTER AND IS INSTRUCTING CONSULATE ON HOW TO HANDLE.

5. ONLY EXPLANATION FOR W-1 CONDUCT WHICH IMMEDIATELY OCCURS TO US IS THAT HE WAS STILL SMARTING FROM IMAGINED SNUB BY LEGATT (LATTER IS NO DOLOT GUN-SHY ABOUT GIVING VISA ASSISTANCE AFTER THE HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO EPISODE) WHEN HE CONTACTED STATION, HE MAY BE IN A HURRY TO LEAVE VENEZUELA DUE FEAR IMMINENT ARREST (SEE REF) AND WAS COUNTING ON IMMEDIATE GRANT OF BUSINESS VISA WHICH WOULD FACILITATE PROLONGED STAY IN U.S.

6. ABOVVE IS FYI AS W-1 MAY ATTEMPT HIGH LEVEL AGENCY CONTACT NEXT TIME HE IS IN HEADQUARTERS AREA.

7. FILE: 201-0740849, E2, IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET

CABLE SEC. DISSE 25 PER

PERSONAJNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE CORY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

LAS

ACTION

FILE VR YRIAN, NE8, 0D03,
AGC/DDO, OPS/1764, cLops,
CI 41

T 352499 E1A048 -PAGE 01 TOR:E317432 NOV 76

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEL

STAFF

IN 088993
CARA 31326

SECRET 031722Z NOV 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31326

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE

REF: CARACAS 31255 (IN 081811)

1. FYI, CARACAS NEWSPAPERS MORNING 3 NOVEMBER 1976

REPORT FOLLOWING RESULTS 2 NOVEMBER JUDICIAL HEARING. ON

INVESTIGATIN OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT BOMBING:

A. JUDGE ORDERED CONTINUED DETENTION OF HERNAN

RICARDO LOZANO, FREDDY LUGO, LUIS POSADA
CARRILES AND ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA.

B. HERMES ROJAS PERALTA, GUETON OLEG

RODRIGUEZ DE LA SERRA TRETIACOFF. WILLIAM WOLF
FIGUEREDO AND FRANCISCO NUNEZ VALLEJO WERE SET FREE
BUT WILL CONTINUE TO BE SUBJECTED TO FURTHER INVESTIGATION.

C. ALFREDO RAFAEL MAZINI (MASSIN I) PEREZ AND CELSA
MARY TOLEDO ALEMAN WERE ABSOLVED OF ANY TIES TO THE
CASE.

2. IN COMMENTING UN DECISION, JUDGE SAID ALL FOUR
   DETA INEES HWD VIOLATED ARTICLES 408 AND 275 OF THE CRIMINAL

> [Figure: A stamp that says "SECRET RECORD COPY"]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

FORM 30200
7.71 MPO 2/70

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

| ACTION |
| :----: |
|  INFO  |

| RF FILE | VR  |
| :-----: | :-: |

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

STAFF

|     |     |
| :-: | --- |
|  1  | 4   |
|  2  | 5   |
|  3  |     |

T 352499
E1A048
PAGE 02-22
IN 288993
TOR: 0317432 NOV 76
CARA 31326

CODE AND WERE ALLEGEDLY GUILTY OF "VGUALIFIED HOMICIDE" AND
MANUFACTURE AND USE OF WEAPONS OF WAR. 80SCH AND POSADA
WERE ACCUSED AS AUTHORS OF THE BOMBING. BOSCH WAS ALSO
CHARGED WITH VIOLATIONS OF ARTICLES 320, 323 AND 327 OF
CRIMINAL CODE FOR USE AND FABRICATION OF FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
JUDGE COMMENTED THAT COURT HAD SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO
PROSECUTE.

3. FILE: 201-0300985. E2 IMPDET.

> [Figure] An obfuscated SECRET stamp is shown.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CONF: SECRET

DATE-TIME GROUP
030008Z CIA/DDO
INFO: FILE D003, D0/00

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
937064 meh
DISSEM BY:45
RETURN TO PER SoP
#132

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION/INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.Y

CIOL - 0367-76

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY
ORIGINATOR Y

SUBJECT: REPORT RECEIVED BY PANAMANIAN NATIONAL GUARD ON ACTIVITIES
OF CUBAN EXILES POSSIBLY INVOLVED IN TERRORISM Y

1. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WAS RECEIVED FROM AN OFFICIAL OF A
   PANAMANIAN SERVICE WHO IS A USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTER. HE PROVIDED
   THE INFORMATION WITHOUT THE KNOWLEDGE OF HIS SERVICE OR GOVERNMENT.
   THE INFORMATION IS VERY SENSITIVE, AND NO ACTION BASED UPON IT SHOULD
   BE UNDERTAKEN WITHOUT THE APPROVAL OF THIS AGENCY.Y

2. ON 22 OCTOBER 1976. THE 6-2 SECTION OF THE PANAMANIAN
   NATIONAL GUARD (GN)RECEIVED A HANDWRITTEN DOCUMENT WHICH APPARENTLY
   WAS OBTAINED FROM A NEW GN G-2-SOURCE IN MIAMI. ALTHOUGH THIS SOURCE
   IS NOT IDENTIFIED BY NAME IN THE DOCUMENT, THE WRITER APPEARS TO BE
   THE PROPRIETOR OF "PASCO'S SEA FOOD," 1030 WEST TWENTY-THIRD STREET,
   HIALEAH. WITH TELEPHONES 885-7344 (OFFICE), 888-6267 (HOME). THE

DATE:
ORIG: CABLE SEC. SUGGESTS ADDITIONAL DISSEM TO: CIA, 10PS/176, ACE/000
UNIT:
EXT:

DT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

![Diagram of signal center use only]

OMF 0 0 0 0 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

CIA/DDO

937064

DISSEM BY:
0 ROES
0 No mbes
0 RETURN TO PER

SE 0

PHONE NUMBER 854-4031 FOLLOWED BY NOTATION "MY HOURS." ALSO APPEARS ON DOCUMENT. THE WRITER IS ASKING US.S $10,000 FOR HIS SERVICES.

3. PRESUMABLY TO ESTABLISH HIS BONA FIDES AND SUBSTANTIATE HIS ACCESS TO INFORMATION OF VALUE TO THE PANAMANIAN GOVERNMENT, THE WRITER SUBMITTED A LENGTHY REPORT ON ALLEGED RECENT CUBAN EXILE ACTIVITIES ACCOMPANIED BY A LONG LIST OF CUBAN EXILE ACTIVISTS. THE DOCUMENT CONTAINS AN ALLEGATION OF CIA INVOLVEMENT IN THIS ACTIVITY. THE DOCUMENT STATES THAT ORLANDO BOSCH IS UNDER ARREST IN VENEZUELA TOGETHER WITH LUIS POSADA CARRILES ALIAS "EL BAMBI." BOSCH WAS TRAVELING ON A COSTA RICAN PASSPORT AND ALSO HAD NICARAGUAN, DOMINICAN, AND CHILEAN PASSPORTS.

4. THE REPORT LISTED BOSCH'S CONTACTS AS MANUEL PORRO IN NICARAGUA, DESCRIBED AS BEING CLOSE TO GENERAL ANASTASIO SOMOZA ORLANDO NUNEZ IN COSTA RICA; AND MARIO RIVADILLA IN SANTO DOMINGO. POSADA IS DESCRIBED IN THE REPORT AS A FORMER U.S. ARMY RANGER, WHO WORKED FOR THE VENEZUELAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF POLICE (DIGEPOL) FOR EIGHT YEARS AND THEN ORGANIZED A PRIVATE DETECTIVE AGENCY WHICH EMPLOYS OVER 1,000 MEN. POSADA, ACCORDING

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 'S PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICANOR

SECRET

CONF:

INFO: FILE

937064

PAGES

3

DISSEM BY:

PER

TO THE REPORT, DIRECTED ALL VIOLENT ACTIONS IN VENEZUELA AGAINST THE COMMUNISTS. HIS ALIASES WERE "INSPECTOR BASILIO" AND "EL ÇALICHE." THE RECENT OPERATION AGAINST THE CUBANA PLANE WAS MOUNTED BY POSADA. ASSISTED BY ALDO VERA. THE WRITER OF THE REPORT CONTINUES THAT BOSCH'S RECENT TRIP TO VENEZUELA WAS AN ATTEMPT TO SETTLE THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN "ALDO'S GROUP" AND THE "COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS" (CORU). BOSCH'S MISSION WAS SUCCESSFUL AS IT APPEARS CORU AND ALDO'S GROUP WILL UNITE. ALDO VERA IS REPORTEDLY IN PUERTO RICO. THE WRITER ADDS THAT ALDO'S GROUP WILL ENTER VENEZUELA IN NOVEMBER 1976 TO MOUNT A SERIES OF ATTACKS AGAINST CUBAN EMBASSIES IN CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA.

5. IT IS NOT ENTIRELY CLEAR FROM THE REPORT, BUT IT APPEARS THAT THE WRITER IS REQUESTING THAT VIVIAN FERNANDEZ DE EL CASTRO, POSSIBLEY JAILED IN CUBA, BE ALLOWED TO TRAVE TO PANAMA SINCE SHE HAS ALREADY SERVED HER SENTENCE. FERNANDEZ WOULD THEN TRAVEL FROM ΡΑΝΑΜΑ ΤΟ MIAMI WHERE SHE WOULD BE OF SERVICE TO THE WRITER.

6. THIS AGENCY PROVIDED ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO THE FBI

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF O

SIGNAL CENTER UBE ONLY

CONF: INFO: FILE

937064

ON LUIS POSADA VIA CIR-294-76 ON 12 OCT 1976. NO ADDITIONAL INFORMA-
TION IS AVAILABLE ON MANUEL PORRO. ORLANDO NUNEZ MABY BE IDENTICAL
TO ORLANDO NUNEZ PÉREZ, WHO ACCORDING TO THE RECORDS OF THIS
AGENCY, IS A CUBAN EXILE RESIDING IN COSTA RICA AND SERVING AS PRESS
SECRETARY OF COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT JOSE FIGUERES AS OF
MARCH 1971. MARIO RIVADILLA MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH MARIO RIVA-
DULLA CARCEDO, DPOB: CIRCA 1930, CUBA. IN 1952 A FORLY RELIABLE
SOURCE SAID THAT HE WAS A COMMUNIST MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL EXECUTIVE
COUNCIL OF THE ORTHODOX CUEBAN PEOPLE'S PARTY (PPC) AND CHIEF OF THE
PROPAGANDA BUREAU OF THE ORTHODOX YOUTH, AN ARM OF THE PPC. IN A
1970 PRESS ARTICLE BASED ON INTERVIEWS WITH RIVADULLA、HE CLAIMED TO
HAVE BEEN IMPRISONED IN CUBA FROM 1961 TO 1967 FOR ANTI-CASTRO
ACTIVITIES. HE LEFT CUBA IN 1970. IN A 1972 NEWSPAPER INTERVIEN.
RIVADULLA CLAIMED TO BE A JOURNALIST LIVING IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SINCE 1970 AND A MEMBER OF THE INTER-AMERICAN PRESS ASSOCIATION
WORKING FOR THE FREEDOM OF NEWSMEN IMPRISONED IN CUBA. IN ANOTHER
INTERVIEW IN 1972 HE CLAIMED TO HAVE ACTIVELY OPPOSED THE FULGENCIO
BATISTA REGIME AND BACKED FIDEL CASTRO, BUT BECAME

DATE:

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXTI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

![image]

SIGNAL CENTER JOS ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE

937064

DISSEM BY:

PER

DISILLUSIONED WITH THE CASTRO REGIME. IN 1974 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE A RADIO AND TELEVISION COMMENTATOF IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

IN NOVEMBER 1975, A WOMAN LIVING IN MIAMI WHOSE SON IS CURRENTLY ALLEGEDLY A PRISONER IN CUBA ADVISED A CONTACT OF THIS AGENCY THAT RIVADULLA HAD BEEN IN PRISON WITH HER SON. THEY HAD PROMISED EACH OTHER THAT THE FIRST ONE TO BE RELEASED WOULD DO ALL IN HIS POWER TO OBTAIN THE FREEDOM OF THE OTHER. IN THIS CONNECTION, RIVADULLA FURNISHED TO THE MOTHER OF THE PRISONER THE NAME OF A WOMAN IN NEW YORK CITY WHO PROMISED TO GET THE SONG OUT OF JAIL IN RETURN FOR PAYMENT OF U.S. $25,000. THE WOMAN IS MARTA JIMENEZ MARTINEZ, WHO IS DESCRIBED IN AGENCY RECORDS AS VERY CLOSE TO FIDEL CASTRO, AN OPPORTUN- IST, IRRATIONAL, AND UNPREDICTABLE. HER ESTRANGED HUSBAND, BERNAL JANIS FAYAD, IS REPORTEDLY A CUBAN GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE (DGI} OFFICER. JIMENEZ IS ATTACHED TO THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS AND IS FREQUENTLY A DELEGATE TO THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY.

![image]

FBI REPORT SJ-105-.

14608, DATED 27 JUNE 1974, CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON RIVA- DULLA. NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE ON VIVIAN FERNANDEZ

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

![image]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. E 2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

USIGUING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE 937064

DE CASTRO. Y

17. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM
    GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF EXECUTIVE ORDER 11652. EXEMP-
    TION CATEGORY 58 (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC
    DECLASSIFICATION. CLASSIFIED BY 007255.18

FILE: 56-8-11; 56-2-9/3; 201-281694; 201-281197; 201-876630; 201-784065; 201-920333; 201-299292.

AC/LA/PNC
AC/LA/COG
AC/LA/M&CA
C/LA/CAR
C/LA/OPS
P&CS/ITG
AGC/DDO
CI/OG
CI/R&A

DATE: 1 NOVEMBER 1976
ORIG: DAVID F. THOMPSON: MEH
UNIT: LA/PNC/PA/R
EXT: 1454

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUPJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL FILE. PERSONS PERFITOMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THET THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTATUS CODITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE PEQUESTED FPOM 1P/FILES..

POSADA CARRILES, LUIS
201-0300985
075-008-015
CARA-31189
SEX M
20 OCT 76
HVC-07522.
CIT. VENE.

RES VENE. NATIVE BORN CUBAN, GOVM HILOS SUBJ DIRECTLY RESPONSIBLE FOR 6 OCT 76 BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIPLINER. WILL REQUEST VENE GOVT REVOKE HIS VENE CITZENSHIP AND TUPN HIM OVER TO THEM FOR PROSECUTION. CUBAN GOVM INTENDS TO LIQU1-DATE SUBJ CITHER WITH OR WITHOUT DUE PROCESS OF LAW

DATE OL NOV 76

0944697.5.

J01-300985

SECRET

E2 123ET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

SECRET

STAFF CONF: L75 INFO: FILE 3019352 DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

935878 DISSEM BY: P

TO: CARACAS-Y

UNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE Y

REFS: A. CARACAS 31198 [IN 076710]

B. DIRECTOR 93359

C. CARACAS ENSTEL 12805, 28 OCTOBER 1976 Y

1. DIEGO ARGUELLES OF REFS A AND B RETRACKED UNDER

LAST NAME ARGUELLO AS RECEIVED REF C. ONE CARD REF FOUND

TO A DIEGO LAZARO ARGUELLO LASTRES, DOB CA. 36, MEMBER OF

CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE IN EXILE, ADDRESS 1785 N.W. 29 STREET, MIAMI.

SPECIAL SEARCH HAS BEEN REQUESTED FOR SOURCE DOCUMENT, UFGA-8043,
DATED 12 MARCH 63. WILL ADVISE IF ADDITIONAL INFORMATION LOCATED.Y

2. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ON MARIA INES VEGA OR PAULA
   VALLADARES OF REF C.Y

3. FILE: 201-300985. E2 IMPDET.A

LA. COMMENT: A. DIEGO ARGUELLES BELIEVED TO BE ASSOCIATE IN
INVESTIGATION FIRM OF LUIS POSADA.

B. NO HQS TRACES ARGUELLES

C. PRESS REPORTED ARREST OF ARGUELLO, VEGA AND VALLADARES.

DATE: 29 OCTOBER 1976

ORIG: L. COOLEY:MEH

UNIT: LA/PNC/V

EXT: 1715

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

STAFF

T 336956 E14875
PAGE 01
IN 082793
TOR: 2815152 OCT 76
SJOS 20051

SECRET 2815022 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE SAN JOSE 20051

TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO, CARACAS.

WNINTEL RYBAT FUDWELL

REFSI A. SANTIAGO 35352 (_IN 08/609_)

B. SAN JOSE 19715 (NOT SENT CARACAS) (_IN 978488_)

1. FOLLOWING COMMENTS RE PARA 2 OF REF A ARE BEING REPEATED FOR CLARIFICATION.

2. PER PARA 1 OF REF B. IT WAS COSTA RICAN PRESIDENT DANIEL ODUBER QUIROS WHO APPARENTLY CONJURED UP INVOLVEMENT OF ORLANDO B O S C H IN THE ARMS MOVEMENT STORY DISCUSSED BETWEEN COSTAN RICAN FOREIGN MINISTER GONZALO F A C I O AND CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO COSTA RICA JORGE A R A N D A PARRA. "CONFIDENTIAL FUNCTIONARIES OF THE U.S. EMBASSY" (ACTUALLY U.S. AMBASSADOR USING STATION INFO) WHO ADVISED THE COSTA RICAN GOVERNMENT OF AN ULTRA-RIGHTIST PLOT DID NOT REPEAT NOT MENTION THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED IN ANY WAY WITH THIS PLOT. AND STATION HAS NO INFORMATION INDICATING THAT BOSCH WAS INVOLVED.

3. ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT OF BOSCH WAS APPARENTLY PURE INVENTION BY PRESIDENT ODUBER AND FOREIGN MINISTER FACIO AND THEY TOLD INVENTION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

STAFF

T 336956
E1A875
PAGE 02-02.
IN 082793
TOR:281515Z OCT 76
SJOS 20051

TO ARANDA POSSIBLY TO STRENGTHEN THEIR CASE SINCE BOSCH TRAVELLED ON CHILEAN PASSPORT.

4. FILE: 201-300985, 200-12-200/1. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

FORM 3020B

7-71MFG 3.76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY - 4 - PEA

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES: 35 RUN B:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

CL48

STAFF

INFO RF. FILE: DOO3/NEG

1

ACCIODO, C/PSHTE4, C/CFY 2

C/PS/EEG2, QOPS, DSS/SOC-3 3

4

5

6

ACTION #
T 33 44 60 ETA466

PAGE 01-01 IN 0818 02

TORI 272033Z OCT 76 CARA 31254

SECRET 272020Z OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31254

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE

REF: CARACAS 31218 (077924)

1. FYI, ACCORDING WKSCARLET-5 WHO OBTAINED FROM DISIP OFFICER, EVIDENCE WHICH IMPLICATES SUBJECT 201-300985 IN 6 OCTOBER 1976 CUBANA AIRCRAFT BOMBING INCLUDES AIRLINE BILLING INVOICE SIEZED IN RAID ON ICICA OFFICES IN CARACAS. BILLING IS TO ICICA FOR AIRLINE TICKETS USED BY HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO DURING BOMBING OPERATION.

2. FILE: 201-0300985, E2, IMPDET.

![Signature]

SECRET

RECORD COPY

LAPNECIV
WKSCARLET-3
201-300985
27 Oct 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

DD DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DD FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED FROM ID/FILES.

ORSADA, LUIS
201-0300935
SEX M
075-005-009
CARA-31174
19 OCT 75
HVC-07521
P2
CIT CUBA

SES VENE. FORMER OFFICER OF DIRECTORATE FOR
SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION /DISIP/
CURRENTLY UNDER DETENTION IN CONNECTION WITH
THE BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER 6 OCT 76.
TRAVELED TO COSTA RICA IN SEPT TO MEET WITH
ORLANDO BOSCH /201-3294202/.

DATE 27 OCT 76

09446116

201-300985

SECRET

F2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

DATE-TIME GROUP

262350Z DIRECTOR

CITE

PAGES

15-1

1

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

933599

DISSEM BY

CONF: LAS INFO: FILE *IKLAN, OFSINC4CY*

TO: CARACAS. Y

UNINTEL MHSPIKE KMSTONE Y

REF: CARACAS 31198 |IN 076710|

1. NO *HAS* TRACES ON DIEGO ARGUE*L*LES.Y

2. HAS FILE ON CIVISTA-6 INDICATE HE BORN 6 OCTOBER 1943 IN CARACAS. HE ATTENDED COLEGIO CARMELITANO DEL NORTE IN SAN ANTONIO PAMPLONA, COLOMBIA, 1959-1961, HE WAS A PLASTIC WORKER 1962-1965 AND IN 1966 WAS ACCEPTED AS AGENT/INVESTIGATOR WITH THE JUDICIAL POLICE (PTJ). WKSCARLET-1 REQUESTED TRAINING FOR CIOISTA-L IN JUNE 1968 IN FLAPS AND SEALS. HOWEVER, FOR SOME UNKNOWN REASON, UKSCARLET-1 LOST INTEREST IN TRAINING CIVISTA-L AND HIS POA WAS CANNBCELLED.

LATEST DOCUMENT IN HAS FILE, 6 MARCH 1969, HVCA-16340, STATED THAT CIVISTA-6 HAS NEVER BEEN CONTACTED BY STATION PERSONNEL NOR HAS HE BEEN GIVEN BKHERALD TRAINING. Y

3. FILE: 201-030098&: 201-0835821. E2 IMPDET.d

REFERENCE ADVISED THAT THERE NO STATION TRACES ON ALFREDO GUTIERREZ OR OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ DE LA SERRA TRETISCOFF. IN ADDITION STATION ADVISED THAT DIEGO ARGUE*L*LES AND CIVISTA-6 ARE BELIEVED TO BE ASSOCIATES IN INVESTIGATION FIRM OF LUIS POSADA CARRILLES.

DATE: 26 OCT 76

ORIG: CATHY LEE WARD

UNIT: LA/PNC/V

EXT: 1719

RECORD COPY

201-300985
26 OCT76

C/PCS/ITC (FOR INFO)

C/LA/COG(FERINFO)

CLASSIFICATION

B 201-835921

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

ARIE RE DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SIOTTED

ACTION UNIT

ACTION

INFO

VR

33-2

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

PAGE 01

IN 079612

T 329742 ETA926 TOR:2612572 OCT 76 CARA 31229

SECRET 2612242 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31229

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYEAT M-SPIKE KMSTONE

REFS: A. WASHINGTON 920330

B. CARACAS 31188 (074978)

C. CARACAS 31224 (078286)

1. WE HAD HOPED RESOLVE QUESTIONS RAISED BY APPROACH OF

SERGIO DIEGUEZ. OSTENSIBLY ON BEHALF LUIS POSADA.

THROUGH DISCUSSION WITH POSADA. POSADA IS NO LONGER

ACCESSIBLE.

2. WKNORTH-17 RECENTLY SHOWED STATION OFFICER A CATALOG

OF INTELLIGENCE TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT PRODUCED BY AUDIO INTERNATIONAL

DEVICES (AID) OF FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA. INSIDE THE CATALOG

COVER WAS A SMALL POCKET CONTAINING THE BUSINESS CARD OF SERGIO

DIEGUEZ, REPRESENTING AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL CONSULTANTS. INC..

MIAMI. WK NORTH-17 SAID HE HAD GOTTEN THE CATALOG INDIRECTLY AND

THROUGH THE VENEZUELAN NATIONAL GUARD: THAT HE DOES NOT KNOW

DIEGUEZ PERSONALLY.

3. THE THOUGHT OCCURS THAT DIEGUEZ MAY HAVE BEEN HE

SECRET

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-30985

DO NOT DESTROY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

SUPPLIER OF PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS EQUIPMENT FOR ICICA. POSADA'S PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS COMPANY IN CARACAS AND MAY HAVE HAD A SUSTAINED CONTACT WITH PUSADA FROM WHICH HE OBTAINED INFORMAZION WHICH HE RECOGNIZED AS OF PROBABLE INTEREST TO BKHERALD. SINCE POSADA HND PREVIOUSLY SUPPLIED BKHERALD WITH INFORMATION ON EXILE PLANS FOR ASSASSINATION AND SOMA ING. ONE WONDERS IF PERHAPS DIEGUEZ MAY HAVE HAD INFORMATION OF THIS TYPE FROM POSADA WHICH, IN ADDITION TO THAT MENTIONED REF A, HE WAS TRYING TO PEDDLE. DIEGOEZ' APPROACH WAS PRIOR THE 21 SEPTEMBER ASSASSINATION OF ORLANDO LETELIER AND THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF A CUBANA AIRLINER. SUGGEST HEADQUARTERS MAY WISH TO RECONTACT AND DEBRIEF DIEGUEZ OR SUGGEST SAME TO LNERGO.

4. FILE: 220-6-484/31 201-0302985. E2. IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET 201952 OCT 79 STAFF

CITE GEORGETOWN 2369

TO: DIRECTOR INFO LONDON

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF: A. GEORGETOWN 21356 (LV071334)

B. GEORGETOWN EMSTEL 2276 (NC 30242)

1. FOR PAST TEN DAYS ATMOSPHERE SURROUNDING OUR EMBASSY HAS BEEN ONE OF APPREHENSION. REVIEWING EVENTS:

A. ON 11 OCTOBER FORMIN FRED WILLS ISSUED STATEMENT WHICH REFERRED TO DESTABILIZATION IN CONTEXT OF CUBANA CRASH. EMBASSY WAS PEACEFULLY PICKETED 13 OCTOBER BY TWO GROUPS, ONE (YSM) WITH GOVERNMENT APPROVAL. THERE FOLLOWED TWO TELEPHONE THREATS TO EMBASSY 14 OCTOBER.

B. ON 15 OCTOBER STATE DEPT MADE DEMARCHE TO GUYANESE CHARGE HALDER OF WHICH KEY PHRASE FOCUSSED UPON BY GOG WAS THAT GOG WAS "STRAINING US PATIENCE." EMBASSY DID NOT RECEIVE ACTUAL TEXT OF DEMARCHE, BUT SECRETARY LEURS, IN TELECON WITH CHARGE BLACKEN, DENIED THAT PHRASE WAS USED. NEVERTHELESS, THIS HEIGHTENED BURNHAM'S EMOTIONAL BROODING OVER CRASH AND THERE FOLLOWED BURNHAM'S SPEECH (SEE TEXT REF 6).

SECRET

NOTE LAST PAGE:

re WKSCCAM/CF-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

ACTION UNIT

RF FILE VÀ

ACTION.

T 323461 ΕΙΑ624

PAGE 22

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PUMPTED

STAFF

IN 2775 04

TOR:2212462 OCT 76.
GORG 21369

C. ON 18 OCTOBER BARBADIAN CRICKET TEAM LEFT GUYANA PREMATURELY, REPORTEDLY AFTER RECEIVING BOMB THREAT. ON 19 OCTOBER SGMS SEARCHES WERE CONDUCTED AT BANK OF GUYANA AND LOCAL AUTO/ELECTRONICS DEALER GEDDES GRANT.

D. ON HEELS OF BURNHAM SPEECH DEPT ADVISED CHARGE HE TO BE RECALLED FOR CONSULTATION AFTER DELIVERING US PROTEST. COIN-CIDENTALLY, WE RECEIVED GOG LETTER REQUESTING CESSATION OF ONGOING AID PROJECT DUE AID ALLEGED FAILURE TO FOLLOW APPROVED PROCEDURE: AND EMBASSY'S UNCLASSIFIED POUCH WAS DETAINED AT AIRPORT.

E. CHARGE DELIVERED ORAL PROTEST TO WILLS EVENING 19 OCTOBER AND WAS LATER CALLED TO MEET WITH BURNHAM.

2. PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE MORNING 22 OCTOBER CHARGE TOLD COS BURNHAM WAS UNAPOLOGETIC OVER SPEECH AND DID NOT REACT TO OUR PROTEST (WHICH WAS MILDER THAN WILLS AND WE EXPECTED), BURNHAM WAS PARTICULARLY ANGRY AT BARBADIAN POSITION ON CRASH, BLAMING US FOR THAT POSITION AS WELL AS FOR SUPPORT OF CUBAN EXILES WHO PERPETRATED CRASH, BURNHAM NOW SEEKS VENGENCE THROUGH DEATH OF SUSPECTS. HE SEEMED TO IMPLY THAT USG ASSISTANCE IN BRINGING THEM TO "JUSTICE" WOULD REESTABLISH OUR CREDIBILITY. RASALT/3 CONFIRMED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

T 323481 E14624 PAGE 23 IN C77504
TOR:2212482 GCT 76 GORG 21309

THIS AS BURNHAM'S VIEW.

3. AFTER BURNHAM'S SUNDAY SPEECH NEITHER RASALT/3 (R/3) NOR RATROJAN/3 (T/3) WERE AVAILABLE, APPARENTLY DUE TO HEIGHTENED GOG MEETING ACTIVITY, AFTER MISSING 16 OCTOBER. CONTACT. R/3 CHECKED IN MORNING 22 OCTOBER. MEETING SET FOR SAME NIGHT. ON VOIE LINK RXE COMMENTED THAT CRASH GAVE RISE TO GREAT DEAL OF EMOTION WHICH FOR BURNHAM WAS VERY STRONGLY REINFORCED BY DISCOVERY OF JOE LEO'S NAME IN SUSPECT'S DIARY. FOR BURNHAM THIS INDICATED A PRESENT USG ASSOCIATION WITH SUSPECTS EVEN IF WE WERE NOT INVOLVED IN AIR CRASH. R/3 SAID THAT IN MEETINGS PRIOR TO BURNHAM'S SPEECH FORMIN WILLS WAS NOT ANXIOUS FOR CONFRONTATION WITH US. HOWEVER, IN HIS AND WILLS' ATTEMPTS TO DISCUSS BURNHAM'S SPEECH APPROACH, BURNHAM WOULD NOT COMMIT HIMSELF AS TO HOW FAR HE WOULD GO. R/3 THINKS THAT BURNHAM WENT JUST AS FAR AS HE INTENDED. AND WAS EVEN SOMEWHAT RESTRAINED EMOTIONALLY. EXPECT MORE DETAIL IN DEBRIEFING R/3; PARTICULARLY ON WILLS' ROLE DURING THIS CRISIS, AND CUBAN OR OTHER ROLES IF ANY. GNCOIN ALSO ATTEMPTING CONTACT T/3 FOR READING ON SITUATION.

4. WE HAVE SEEN NO MEASURABLE CHANGE IN OPERATIONAL CLIMATE AS YET. WILLS TOLD CHARGE THAT PARA 1 POUCH AND AID-LETTER INCIDENTS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPIES ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

|     | RF. | FILE | VR. |
| --- | --- | ---- | --- |
| N   |     |      |     |
| F   |     |      |     |
| O   |     |      |     |

ACTION

T 323481   EIA534                                   IN 677584

PAGE 24-24                                             GORG 21369

TOR:221245Z OCT 76

WERE DUE TO COINCIDENCE. AS THERE IS NO GOVERNMENT PLANS TO HARASS
US. HE ALSO PROMISED INCREASED "VIGILANCE" ON BEHALF US MISSION
PERSONNEL. ALTHOUGH HE WAS NOT SPECIFIC. R/3 REQUESTED FACE-TO-
FACE MEETING SAYING THAT HE SEES NO CHANGE IN SECURITY SITUATION.
STATION WILL CONTINUE WITH SCHEDULED MEETING ARRANGEMENTS, BARRING
CHANGE FOR WORSE. IN THIS CONTEXT OPS CLIMATE COULD DETERIORATE
IF ANY PLAUSIBLE EVIDENCE IS DIVULGED LINKING USG OR BKHERALD
DIRECTLY TO CUBANA BOMB SUSPECTS. RIGHTLY OR WRONGLY THIS WOULD
PROBABLY SERVE AS CONFIRMATION OF BURNHAM'S PARANOIC SUSPICIONS OF
US. CANNOT PREDICT NATURE OF HIS REACTION. HOWEVER, HQS SHOULD
BE AWARE THAT ONE OF ARRESTEES IN CARACAS, LUIS POSADA
CARRILES, WAS FORMERLY HANDLED BY GABRIEL J. LABRENE CIRCA 1972.
5. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

FILE

STAFF

LAS  11/AY/075/764,
DDO, ACC/DDO, NES, SS/SOC-4
SSY, P//EC2, C14, TOPS,
T 324264 E14565 PAGE 21 IN 277924

TOR: 22 16512 OCT 76 CARA 3121

SECRET 2216362 CCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31218

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE

REF: CARACAS 31268 (0069408).

1. DURING 22 OCTOBER MEETING WITH WKNORTH-17, HE
   PLACED TELEPHONE CALL TO OFFICE OF WKNOBLE-24 AND PRSONALLY
   VERIFIED THAT ORLANDO GARCIA HAD NOT BEEN ARRESTED.
   IT OPINION OF WKNORTH-17 THAT PRESS ALLEGATION IS RESULT
   OF CONFUSION NAME ORLANDO GARCIA WITH ORLANDO BOSCH.
   WKNORTH-17 ALSO SAID HE HAS NO INFORMATION THAT FRANCISCO
   NUNEZ HAS OR HAS HAD IN THE PAST ANY CONNECTION WITH
   VENEZUELAN "SECRET POLICE".

2. WKNORTH-17 HAD TIME ONLY BRIEFLY TO DISCUSS
   BOMBING CASE: INFO BEING FORWARDED BY HVC. CONCERNING THE
   PRESS ALLEGATION THAT POSADA'S "FORTIFIED RESIDENCE" HAD
   BEEN SEARCHED, WKNORTH-17 SAID THIS WAS UNTURE AND ONLY
   THE ICICA OFFICE HAD BEEN RAIDED. WKNORTH-17 ADDED THAT
   SOME ITEMS OF BOMB PARAPHERNALIA FOOND IN THE ICICA OFFICES
   WERE CONSIDERED EVIDENCE IMPLICATING POSADA IN THE 6 OCTOBER

SECRET

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-300285

DO NOT DESTROY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET

STAFF

T 324264 EI A5 65 PAGE C2-02 IN 277924
TOR:221651Z OCT 76 CARA 31218

DOWNING OF THE CUBANA AIRCRAFT.

3. FILE: 201-6676601 201-0360985. E2. IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

CABLE SPC OSSEMB

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTEO

ACTION UNIT

ACTION

INFO

T 321023 EIA429

PAGE 01

TOR: 2118012 OCT 76

IN 076710

CARA 31198

SECRET 2117182 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31198

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

RYBAT WNINTEL REAM MHSPIKE

REF: DIRECTOR 930282

1. NO STATION TRACES ALFREDO GUTIERREZ OR OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ DE LA SERRA TRETISCOFF.

2. POSADA ASSOCITES IN INVESTIGATIVE FIRM ARE BELIEVED BE DIEGO ARGUELLES (NO STATION TRACES) AND CIVISTA-6: THE LATTER MAY HAVE HAD HIS INTEREST IN THE FIRM PURCHASED BY POSADA AND ARGUELLES A FEW MONTHS AGO. WKSCARLET-1 HAS BEEN ALLEGED BY WKNORTH TO BE A PARTNER OF POSADA IN THE FIRM BUT WE HAVE NO INFORMATION TO SUBSTANTIATE THIS. POSADA DID TELL STATION THAT HIS FIRM HAD DONE WORK FOR WKSCARLET-1 AS A CLIENT. THE ALLEGED PARTNERSHIP CONNECTION WOULD BE VALUABLE FACT IN ANY GOV EFFORT SHOW CONNECTION OF POSADA ACTIVITIES WITH COPEI, STATION HAS NO RECENT INFORMATION ON CIVISTA-6 . WE ARE AS YET UNABLE TO IDENTIFY THE 11 OTHER PERSONS CONNECTED WITH ICICA BUT, IF THIS FIGURE CORRECT, SUSPECT THAT FREDDY LUGO AND RICARDO HERNAN LOZANO MAY FIGURE AMONG THE ELEVEN.

![RECORD COPY]

21 Oct 76

201-300985


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# SECRET

RF FILE VR AI

T 321023 E1A429 PAGE 02-02 IN 076710

TORI 211801Z OCT 76 CARA 31198

3. FILE: 201-0308985, E2, IMPDET.

![image of staff]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

FORM 30200
7.91MFG 276

CABLE SEC DISSEN RY ______ PER

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIER

ADVANCE COPY ISSLED SLOTTED CLAROID/405
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR D003 AGC/ADO CUBITGY
C/LAS C/NEL COPS/INT, C/CIV, C/PS15020
C/PIA

T 317069 EI A6 47 PAGE 01 IN 074978

TORI 2013592 OCT 76 CARA 31186

SECRET 2213222 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31186

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE KMSTONE

REFSI A. DIRECTOR 930240

B. DIRECTOR 875121

C. WASHINGTON 922330

1. THE AGENCY HAS HAD NO, REPEAT NO. RELATIONSHIP WITH
   LUIS POSADA'S INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY OR ANY OTHER
   BUSINESS VENTURE HE MAY HAVE HAD IN CARACAS.

2. DECISION TO TERMINATE RELATIONSHIP WITH POSADA WAS
   TAKEN IN EARLY 1974, ALMOST TWO YEARS PRIOR HOS FORMAL
   TERMINATION ON 13 FEBRUARY 1976. OUR ONLY REASON FOR CONTINUING THE CONTACT BEYOND DATE OF THAT DECISION IN 1974
   WAS TO RESOLVE CERTAIN OUTSTANDING FEDERAL COVERT INCOME
   TAX MATTERS, AND WE TRIED TO KEEP THESE SESSIONS AS
   INFREQUENT ASPOSSIBLE. AS SOON AS TAX SITUATION WAS
   SATISFACTORILY RESOLVED, WE PRECEEDED WITH FORMAL TERMINATION
   SESSION IN FEBRUARY 1976, BECAUSE POSADA HAD HIGH LOCAL
   PROFILE, WE HAD NO REALLY COVERT MEANS TO CONTACT HIM AND

SECRET

RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

CABLE SEC OSSEN

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTES

ACTION UNIT

ACTION

INFO

FILE

VR

T 317069 E1A647

PAGE 02

TOR: 201359Z OCT 76

IN 074978

CARA 31186

WE WAITED FOR HIS PERIODIC, NON-SCHEDULED CALL-INS TO RECEIVE AND CONVEY ANY NEWS CONCERNING TAX MATTERS.

3. CONTACTS WITH STATION SUBSEQUENT TO FORMAL TERMINATION SESSION WERE AT POSADA OWN INITIATIVE AND WERE FOR PURPOSE VOLUNTEERING INFORMATION ON SIGNIFICANT EXILE EXTREMIST PLANS, TO SOLICIT AID FOR RETENTION OF HIS RESIDENT ALIEN STATUS AND FOR HELP IN OBTAINING U.S. VISITORS VISAS FOR SELF AND FAMILY. POSADA WAS NOT TASKED TO PROVIDE INFORMATION BEYOND SPECIFICS OF EXTREMIST PLANNING WHICH HE HAD REPORTED ON OWN INITIATIVE.

4. POSADA RECONTACTED THE CARACAS STATION ALMOST IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HIS FORMAL TERMINATION TO VOLUNTEER. REPORT ON WHEREABOUTS OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, FRANK CASTRO AND THE THREAT TO LIFE OF SALVADOR ALLENDE'S NEPHEN, HE WAS CONTACTED A DAY OR SO LATER (19 FEBRUARY 1976) BY STATION BUENOS AIRES TO DEBRIEF FOR ANY POSSIBLE INFORMATION CONCERNING SECURITY OF SECRETARY KISSINGER VISIT, AT THIS TIME POSADA WAS TRAVELLING WITH FORMER DISIP CHIEF REMBERTO UZCATEGUI (HIS CLIENT) AND INVESTIGATING THE AUTHORSHIP OF A LETTER BOMB SENT TO CUBAN AMBASSADOR IN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

CARACASI THE BOMB ENVELOPE BORE RETURN ADDRESS OF WEALTHY
VENEZUELAN INDUSTRIALIST GUSTAVO VOLMER WHOEMPLOYS UZCATEGUI AS
SECURITY ADVISTOR, FOLLOWING HIS TETURN TO CARACAS

FROM THIS TRIP POS ADA CONTACTED THE STATION AND SAID
SO ME WHAT ACCUS INGLY THAT HE HAD VERY NEARLY BEEN RRED EE MA BLY
COMPROMISED WITH THE EXILE EXTREME ISTS WHEN BOSCH WAS ARRESTED IN
SAN JOSE AND THE INFORMATION CONCERNING THE THREAT TO ALLENDE'S
NEPHEW WAS LEAKED.

5. ON 22 JUNE 1976 POS ADA AGAIN CONTACTED THE STAT 10N,
   REPORTED INFO TDFIRDB-315/06286/76 CONCERNING POSSIBLE EXILE
   PLANS TO BLOW UP A CUBANA AIRLINER LEAVING PANAMA, AND REQUESTED
   VISA ASSISTANCE REPORTED CARACAS 30169. THE LAST CARACAS STATION
   CONTACT WITH POSADA WAS A FEW DAYS LATER TO COUNSEL HIM PER REF 8.
   AN UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT WAS MADE TO CONTACT POSADA ON 7 OCTOBER
   1976 IN CONNECTION REF CI

6. THE STATION HAS NO REASON TO BELIEVE THAT THE SOURCE OF
   TDFIRDB-315/10256 DELIBERATELY DELAYED PASSING ON BOSCH'S AND
   POSADA'S REMARKS ABOUT HITTING A CUBAN PLAN UNTIL AFTER THE
   INCIDENT. WHEN POSADA MADE THE STATEMENTS TO THE SUBSOURCE HE
   WAS NOT SPECIFIC AS TO ANY TIME OR PLACE FOR THE INCIDENT. WHEN

SECRET. *fre date in Number
Furnished upon Request.
301-300985-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

FOAM 30200
7-71 MFG 2-70

CABLE SEC DISSEY BY:

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED BY:
ACTION UNIT

|     | RF  | FILE | VR  |
| --- | --- | ---- | --- |
| N   |     |      |     |
| F   |     |      |     |
| O   |     |      |     |

ACTION:

SECRET

| STAFF |     |
| ----- | --- |
| 1     | 4   |
| 2     | 5   |
| 3     | 6   |

T 317069 EIA647
PAGE 04-04
IN 074978
TOR: 201359Z OCT 76
CARA 31186

THE SUBSOURCE REPORTED THIS INFORMATION TO THE SOURCE. THE
SUBSOURCE HAD NO REASON TO BELIEVE THE INFORMATION WOULD BE
PASSED ON BY THE SOURCE TO AGENCY AS HE IS UNWITTING OF THE
SOURCE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AGENCY.

7. FILE: 201-0300985, E2, IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# SECRET 2013SS LCT TO STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31186

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

WHITITEL PYFAT NUSPINE KII TONE

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 930240
B. DIRECTOR 875121
C. WASHINGTON 920330

1. THE AGENCY HAS HAD NO. REPEAT NO. RELATIONSHIP WITH
   LUIS INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY OR ANY OTHER
   BUSINESS VENTURE HE MAY HAVE HAD IN CARACAS.

2. DECISION TO TERMINATE RELATIONSHIP WITH POSADA WAS
   TAKEN IN EARLY 1974. ALMOST TWO YEARS PRIOR HOS FORMAL
   TERMINATION ON 13 FEBRUARY 1976. DUS ONLY PERSON FOR CON-
   TINUING THE CONTACT BEYOND DATE OF THAT DECISION IN 1974
   WAS TO RESOLVE CERTAIN OUTSTANDING FEDERAL COVERT INCOME
   TAX MATTERS. AND WE TRIED TO KEEP THESE SESSIONS AS
   INFREQUENT AS POSSIBLE. AS SOON AS TAX SITUATION WAS
   SATISFACTORILY RESOLVED. WE PROCEEDED WITH FORMAL TERMINATION
   SESSION IN FEBRUARY 1976. BECAUSE POSADA HAD HIGH LOCAL
   PROFILE. WE HAD NO REALLY COVERT MEANS TO CONTACT HIM AND
   WE WAITED FOR HIS PERIODIC, NON-SCHEDULED CALL-INS TO
   RECEIVE AND CONVEY ANY NEWS CONCERNING TAX MATTERS.

3. CONTACTS WITH STATION SUBSEQUENT TO FORMAL
   TERMINATION SESSION WERE AT POSADA OWN INITIATIVE AND WERE
   FOR PURPOSE VOLUNTEERING INFORMATION ON SIGNIFICANT EXILE
   EXTREMIST PLANS. TO SOLICIT HIM FOR RETENTION OF HIS RESIDENT
   ALIEN STATUS AND FOR HELP IN OBTAINING U.S. VISITORS VISAS
   FOR SELF AND FAMILY. POSADA WAS NOT TASKED TO PROVIDE
   INFORMATION BEYOND SPECIFICS OF EXTREMIST PLANNING WHICH HE
   HAD REPORTED ON OWN INITIATIVE.

4. POSADA RECONTACTED THE CARACAS STATION ALMOST
   IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING HIS FORMAL TERMINATION TO VOLUNTEER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

COUTS OF USLONG BOSCH AVILA, FPHIC

VEDALA INDUSTRIALIST GUSTAVO VOLMER WHOEMELLOYS UZCATEGUI AS SECURITY ARPSTOP, FOLLOWING HIS TETUEN 10 CAPALAS

1-: TIFF FOR ANY POSIBLE FORMATION

FIFFINSY KICEIDGES VICIO. AT THIS

WAS WELL WITH FORMER DELIP CHIES FEMIESTO

CLIEN 60 1106STIGATING THE

A LETTER UP SENT TO CUESS ANESSANDOR IN

5101 FELOPE BOSE PETUAN ADIRESS OF WEALTH

FED ΤΡΙΣ ΛΟΓΑDA LONTACTED THE STATION PAD SAID

Y THAT HE HAD VERY DEMPLY BEEN IPFEDE EMAFLY

COMEFONUSST HITH THE EXILE EXTREMEISTO WHEN BOSCH WAS ASPECTED IN

CHN JUST AND THE INFORMATION CONCERNING THE THREAT TO ALLENDE'S
NEPHEW WAS LEAKED.

5. ON 22 JUNE 1976 POSADA ASRIN CONTACTED THE STATION,
   PERORTED INFO TOFIPD8-315/062896-76 CONCERNING POSSIBLE EXILE
   PLANS TO FLOW UP A CURAKA ATALINEP LEAVING PANAMA. AND PEQUESTED
   VISA ASSISTANCE FEPORTED CAPACAS 30169. THE LAST CAPACA CISTION
   CONTACT WITH PORADA WAS A FEW DAYS LETES IN CAMEL HIM FER BEF F
   EMUSELESSFUL HITEMPT WAS MADE TO CONTACT POSADA ON 7 OCTO
   1976 IN CONDECTION REF с.

6. THE STATION HAS NO PEASON TO PELIEVE THAT THE SOUPCE OF
   THEIRDR-315-10256 DELIBERATELY DELAYE! PASSING ON DOSCH'S AND
   POSAJIA'S FELINKS HADI! HITTING A CUFFIN FLAN UNTIL STEP THE
   INCIDENT, WHEN POSADA MAJIE THE STATEMENTS TO THE SUESOURCE HE
   WAS HOT SPECIFIC AS TO ANY TIME OF PLACE FOS THE INCIDENT. WHEN
   THE SUPSOUPCE FEPORTEL TIMES INFORMATION TO THE EDUFCE, THE
   SUESOURCE HAD NO REASON TO PELIEVE THE INFORMATION MOLE
   PASSED CH DV THE COURCE TO AGENCY AS HE IS UNMITTING OF THE
   SOUPCE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AGENCY.

7. FILE: 201-0300985. ES, IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

OPERATIONS CENTER

Oct 20 1 12 PM 76

LOX MESSAGE RECEIPT

FROM: Raymond A. Warren, Chief, Latin America Division, x7763

SUBJECT OF MESSAGE
Data for Inclusion in Draft Memorandum to Secretary of State

CLASSIFICATION/CONTROLS
SECRET

| LOX TO        | DELIVER TO                     | EXTENSION | NUMBER OF PAGES | ROOM NUMBER |
| ------------- | ------------------------------ | --------- | --------------- | ----------- |
| Dept of State | Mr. Francis DeTarr INR/DDC/OPS | 22285     | two             | 6635        |


REMARKS

FORM 3624 (12-75)

WKSCARLET-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

20 October 1976

SUBJECT: Data for Inclusion in Draft Memorandum
To Secretary of State

REFERENCE: LEX-0714, 19 October 1976

1. In response to the queries posed in the Reference, there follows below amplification of information concerning Luis Pesada.

2. The Agency has had no relationship with Luis POSADA'S Investigative Agency or any other business venture he may have had in Caracas.

3. The decision to terminate the relationship with Posada was taken in early 1974. Our only reason for continuing the contact beyond date of that decision in 1974 was to resolve certain outstanding federal income tax matters, and we tried to keep these sessions as infrequent as possible. Because Posada had high local profile, we waited for his periodic non-scheduled call-ins to reccive and convey any news concerning tax matters.

4. Contacts with him subsequent to February 1976 were at Posada's own initiative (except as indicated below) and were for the purpose of volunteering information on significant exile extremist plans, to solicit aid for re- tention of his resident alien status, and for help in obtaining U.S. visitors visas for self and family. Posada was not tasked to provide information beyond specifics of extremist planning which he had reported on own initiative.

5. Posada recontacted the Caracas Station in mid- February 1976 to volunteer a report on the whereabouts of Orlando BOSCH Avila, Frank CASTRO. and the threat to the Life of Salvador ALLENDE's nephew. He was contacted a day or so laver by Station Buenos Aires to debrief him on any possible information concerning the security of Secretary Kissinger's visit. At this time Posada was travelling with former DISIP Chief Remberto UZCATEGUI (his client) and investigating the authorship of a letter bomb sent to Cuban Ambassador in Caracas.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

6. On 22 June 1976 Posada again contacted the station and requested visa assistance, for his wife and himself.

7. The Caracas station has no reason to believe that the source of TDFIRDB-315/10256 deliberately delayed passing on Bosch's and Posada's remarks about hitting a Cuban plane until after the incident. When Posada made the statements to the subsource he was not specific as to any time or place for the incident. When the subsource reported this information to the source, the subsource had no reason to believe the information would be passed on by the source to this Agency as he is unwitting of the source's relationship with the Agency.

![SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

20 October 1976

Frames DeTARR
IN2/000/CFS

SUBJECT: Data for Inclusion in Draft Memorandum
To Secretary of State

REFERENCE: LDX-0714, 19 October 1976

1. In response to the queries posed in the Reference, there follows below amplification of information concerning Luis Pesada.

2. The Agency has had no relationship with Luis POSADA'S Investigative Agency or any other business venture he may have had in Caracas.

3. The decision to terminate the relationship with Posada was taken in early 1974. Our only reason for continuing the contact beyond date of that decision in 1974 was to resolve certain outstanding federal income tax matters, and we tried to keep these sessions as infrequent as possible. Because Fosada had a high local profile, we waited for his periodic non-scheduled call-ins to receive and convey any news concerning tax matters.

4. Contacts with him subsequent to February 1976 were at Posada's own initiative (except as indicated below) and were for the purpose of volunteering information on significant exile extremist plans, to solicit aid for re- tention of his resident alien status, and for help in obtaining U.S. visitors visas for self and family. Posada was not tasked to provide information beyond specifics of extremist planning which he had reported on own initiative.

5. Posada recontacted the Caracas Station in mid- February 1976 to volunteer a report on the whereabouts of Orlando BOSCH Avila, Frank CASTRO, and the threat to the life of salvador ALLENDE's nephew. He was contacted a day or so laier by Station Buenos Aires to debrief him on any possible information concerning the 'security of Secretary Kissinger's visit. At this time Posada was travelling with former DISIP Chief Remberto UZCATEGUI (his client) and investigating the authorship of a letter bomb sent to Cuban Ambassador in Caracas.

WARNING ROTICE
SENSITIVE IN ELLIGENCE SOURC...
AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

6. On 22 June 1976 Posada again contacted the station and requested visa assistance, for his wife and himself.

7. The Caracas station has no reason to believe that the source of TOFIROB-315/10256 deliberately delayed passing on Bosch's and Posada's remarks about hitting a Cuban plane until after the incident. When Posada made the statements to the subsource he was not specific as to any time or place for the incident. When the subsource reported this information to the source, the subsource had no reason to believe the information would be passed on by the source to this Agency as he is unwitting of the source's relationship with the Agency.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

State Department Cable
Date: 20 October 1976
Classification: Confidential
SUBJECT: OMANG QUERY ABOUT POSADA
STATE 259140


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# OUTGOING 'ESSAGE

![Signal center use only]

# SECRET

STAFF

1922832 DIRECTOR

930240 DISSEM BY: 25

CONF: C/LAS INFO: FILE CIPAN, C/NEG,
0003, 000/00, ACI1000, ClOPS/IT64, C/CI/4, CIPS/EG2, ClOPS/INT

TO: IMMEDIATE CARACAS.Y

NIACT RYBAT UNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE Y

1. DEPARTMENT OF STATE HAS LEVIED BELOW REQUIREMENTS ON US FOR USE IN BRIEFING OF DR. KISSINGER. WOULD APPRECIATE STATION RESPONSE AS EARLY AS POSSIBLE MORNING 20 OCTOBER. WE RECOGNIZE THAT SOME OF INFO ALREADY AVAILABLE HERE, BUT WOULD LIKE DEFINITIVE STATEMENTS BY STATION ON BELOW QUESTIONS. Y

2. HAS THE AGENCY HAD ANY RELATIONSHIP WITH LUIS POSADA'S INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY OR ANY OTHER BUSINESS HE MAY HAVE HAD? Y

3. WHAT WAS THE NATURE OF THE CONTACTS THE AGENCY HAD WITH POSADA AFTER HE WAS TERMINATED? WHAT DID THE CONTACTS HAVE TO DO WITH CUBA? Y

4. WHO WAS THE VISA FOR THAT POSADA APPROACHED THE AGENCY AND THE DEFENSE ATTACHE ABOUT IN JUNE 1976? Y

![Illegible text]

5. DOES THE AGENCY BELIEVE THAT THE SOURCE OF TDFIRDB-315/30256 DELIBERATELY DELAYED PASSING ON BOSCH'S AND POSADA'S REMARKS ABOUT HITTING A CUBAN PLANE UNTIL AFTER THE INCIDENT? Y

![Illegible text]

6. FILE DEFER. E2,IMPDET-A LA/COMMENT: CONCERNING CUBANA PLANE CRASH NEAR BARBADOS. OCTOBER.

DATE/19 OCTOBER 1976

ORIG: WAYNE CARLEY:LH

UNIT: LA/OPS

EXT: 1244

![Signature]

RECORD COPY

![Signature]

![Signature]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

TOTAL COPIES 35-5

SECRET

LIPAD, CINEG
LORS, C/PRT64 C/PS/EG2, AGC/000, DD03, C/OSG, C/SIAZ, C/FI4

SECRET 1920542 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31184

TOI PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE MHSPIKE

REFSI A. DIRECTOR 929165

B. WASHINGTON 920330

C. CARACAS 31137 (IN 070661)

1. WE SHARE HEADQUARTERS CONCERN RE ARREST OF WKSCARLET-3 (W-3) AND POSSIBILITY OF SUSPICION/ADDITIONAL CHARGES BKHERALD CONNECTION WITH BOMBING. IN ADDITION TO INTEL REPORTING, STATION CONTINUOUSLY ASSESSING EVENTS IN RELATION TO MOST RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND WE ARE IN CLOSE COORDINATION WITH AMBASSADOR. WE ARE UNABLE TO REPORT ANY FIRST-HAND INFORMATION FROM W-3 OR WXTANGO-1 (W-1) DUE TO LIMITATIONS ESTABLISHED BY AMBASSADOR. PRIOR TO BOMBING INCIDENT BRADSPIES ATTEMPTED TO CONTACT W-3 REGARDING APPARENTLY UNRELATED MATTER IN REF BI AFTER INCIDENT AND INITIAL REPORT FROM WKSCARLET-5 FROM WKSCARLET-3, ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT W-3 WERE STOPPED AND LATER WERE PROHIBITED BY AMBASSADOR. AS W-1 NAME BEGAN COMING UP WITH INCREASING

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

FREQUENCY, AMBASSADOR REQUESTED STATION PULL BACK IN LIAISON
CONTACT (THIS APPLIED ONLY TO W-1 PERS ON AL CONTACT
AND NOT TO WKSCARLET LIAISON IN GENERAL).

2. AS YET STATION HAS NO HARD EVIDENCE WHICH DIRECTLY
   LINKS ELTHER
   W-3,
   W-1; OR RICARDO MORALES NAVARETTE TO THE
   6 OCTOBER 1976 BOMBING. HOWEVER, THEIR REPORTED ASSOCIATION
   WITH ORLANDO BOSCP AVILA, THEIR BACKGROUNDS, AND W-3'S
   PRIOR REPORTING ON TERRORIST ACTIONS SUGGEST THAT THEY WERE
   ALL AWARE TO ONE DEGREE OR ANOTHER OF PLANS FOR THE 6 OCTOBER
   ACTION AND THAT NONE OF THEM ACTIVELY OPPOSED IT OF THE
   THREE W-3 SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN MOST LIKELY IMPLICATED THROUGH
   HIS POSSIBLE ASSISTANCE TO HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO AND/OR
   FREDDY LUGO. W-1 AND MORALES MAY HAVE BECOME ACCESS OR IES-
   AFTER-THE-FACT DEPENDING UPON THE POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF
   ORLANDO BOSCH IN THE BOMBING AND ITS AFTERMATH.

3. IT MAY BE WISHFUL THINKING BUT DO NOT FEEL THAT
   W-3 IS IN POSITION REVEAL ANY TRUE INFORMATION WHICH COULD
   IMPLICATE ANY OF HIS SEVERAL EMBASSY CONTACTS. SINCE CONTACT
   WITH HIM IN RECENT YEARS HAS BEEN TO OUR KNOWLEDGE LIMITED_ON٢٥-٧
   VISA ASSISTANCE AND INFORMATION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

REPORTING, HE COULD AT MOST REVEAL NAMES AND TELPHONE-
NUMBERS. WKSCARLET-5 EXPRESSED PERSONAL OPINION THAT W-3.
FEARING POSSIBLE RETRIBUTION FROM ORLANDO BO'SCH, WOULD NOT
DARE FIX BLAME ON 80SCH AND MIGHT. UNDER INTERROGATION
PRESSURE ATTEMPT TO IMPLICATE BKHERALD AS HIS SPONSOR: WE
FEEL THIS POSSIBILITY IS RATHER REMOTE.

4. WKSCARLET-9 APPEARS NOT TO GE INVOLVED IN THE
   ABOVE BUT HIS CUBAN BACKGROUND AND CLOSE ASSOCIATION WITH
   W-1. ESPECIALLY IN RECENT WEEKS. UNDOUBTEDLY HAS BROUGHT
   HIM SOME NOTICE AND PROBABLY SUSPICION. WKSCARLET-9 HAS
   NOT BEEN MET SINCE HE MISSED A MEETING IN LATE SPETEMBER:
   HE CALLED IN THE NEXT DAY TO SAY THAT HE WAS NOT ABLE TO
   MAKE IT. HE SUB SE CUENTLY CALLED HIS CASE OFFICERIS HOME ONCE WHILE
   HE WAS OUT BUT HAS NOT CALLED BACK TO SPECIFY A TIME FOR THE
   NEXT MEETING HE ALSO HAS NOT RESPONDED TO THREE RECENT
   RS-708 SIGNALS CALL IN AND ONE TO MAKE AN EMERGENCY
   MEETING ON THE NIGHT OF 8 OCTOBER. STATION HAS DECIDED
   AGAINST CALLING HIM DURING THIS CURRENT TENSE PERIOD AT
   HIS ONLY REACHABLE NUMBER--HIS AND WKNOBLE-1'S HOME. WE
   WILL CONTINUE SIGNALLING AND AWAITING HIS CALL IN, FYI:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE CORY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
ACTION #
RF FILE VR
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
STAFF
T 315150 EI4741 PAGE 04 IN 074149
TOR11922432 OCT 76 CARA 31184

WITH WKSCARLET-9'S NEW POST IN WKSCARLET GOES A
ROUND-THE-CLOCK ARMED ESCORT WHICH HE HAS TO RID HIMSELF OF
BEFORE MAKING A CLANDESTINE MEETING WITH HIS CASE OFFICER!
WKSCARLET-9 HAS EXPRESSED CONCERN OVER THE SECURITY PROBLEMS
OF MEETINGS IN HIS CURRENT SITUATION, ESPECIALLY SINCE HE HAS
MANY ENEMIES IN, OR UNTIL RECENTLY IN, WKSCARLET WHO WOULD
LOVE TO TAR HIM WITH THE BKHERALD BRUSH. SOMEONE WITH HIS
CUBAN BACKGROUND, OF COURSE, IS ESPECIALLY VULNERABLE TO THIS
CHARGE IN THE ATMOSPHERE OF THE CURRENT FUROR ABOUT EXILES IN
VENEZUELA, WILL ADVISE AS SOON AS WKSCARLET-9 RECONTACT IS
ESTABLISHED.

5, STATION FILES CONTAIN NO TRACES TO OLEG GUETON
RODRIGUEZ OR CELSA TOLEDO, STATION HWS ONE TRACE TO FRANCISCO
NUNEZ, A CUBAN EXILE AND FORMER NAVY OFFICER EMPLOYED BY
ZULOAGA AND MACHADO GROUPS. INFO APPEARS IN CONTACT
REPORTS DATED 6 AND 8 JUNE 1967, FILED IN AMEMBER-1 FILE
WHICH NO LONGER AVAILABLE IN STATION. THERE IS ANOTHER TRACE
THAT ONE FRANCISCO E, NUNEZ REPORTED A CASTRO ASSASSINATION
ATTEMPT TO A STATION ASSET: UFAA-4022, 7 APR 72: 100-009-014.
PROBABLY THE SAME FRANCISCO E. NUNEZ WAS LISTED IN HVCA-8538.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

P.71MPG 870

`ABLE SEC. DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

SECRET

STAFF

ACTION #

RF FILE VR

T 315150 EI 4741 PAGE 05-05 IN 07 41:49

TOR:1922432 OCT 76 CARA 31184

23 AUGUST 1961. AS GENERAL DIRECTOR OF THE COMPANY AISLA.

C.A. AND IDENTIFIED AS HAVING FURNISHED A LEAD

TO A CUBAN VICE CONSUL WHO WAS PLANNING TO DEFECT,

6. FILE: 200-6-484/31 221-03009851 201-02859238

201-0067360. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

1. State Department Cable
   Date: 19 October 1976
   Classification: Confidential
   CARACAS 12401
   SUBJECT: Press Queries re Bosch/Cubana Case

2. State Department LDX
   Date: 19 October 1976
   Classification: Secret
   SUBJECT: Additional Questions
   LDX MESSAGE NO. 0714


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

OMP 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: C/LA8 INFO: FILE CLIP/AN, C/NE6, 0003,

PRIORITY AGC/DDOT/CIOR/ITG4,

TO: CARACAS. Y CLOPS, CL/AY, C/PS/EG2,

RYBAT
UNINTEL KMSTONE MHSPIKE Y CLOSE, DOO/DO

DISSEM BY: ap

1. LATE PRESS CLIPPINGS REPORT ARREST OF LUIS POSADA CARRILES.
   ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, OLEG GUETON RODRIGUEZ, CELSA TOLEDO AND
   FRANCISCO NUNEZ. POSADA AND CARRILES KNOWN TO STATION. PRELIMINARY
   TRACES ON NUNEZ SHOW HE JEALTHY CUBAN EXILE AND MEMBER OF CORU
   RESIDENT IN CARACAS.

2. WE ARE CONCERNED IN SO FAR AS ARREST OF WKSCARLET-3 MIGHT CAST
   SUSPICION, AND BRING ON ADDITIONAL CHARGES OF BKHERALD CONNECTION
   WITH BOMBING、ESPECIALLY SINCE WKSCARLET-3 HAS IN PAST BEEN PUBLIC-
   ALLY ACCUSED OF BEING BKHERALD AGENT. WE ALSO NOTE HE HAS BEEN SOME-
   TIME CONTACT OF CARACAS LEGATT, AND STATION SUSPICION THAT HE WAS
   CONTACT OF DAO.

3. OF INTEREST IS THAT MUCH OF THE CARACAS END OF INVESTIGATION
   OF THE AIRLINER BOMBING AND REPORTING IS CONTROLLED BY WKTANGO-B3
   GROUP. RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETTE IS WKTANGO-3 DEPUTY AND HAS BEEN
   SERVING AS CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANT FOR LEGATT. DISIP SUB-INSPECTOR
   ORLANDO JIMENEZ WHO SENT TO PORT OF SPAIN IS ALSO INCLUDED IN GROUP.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-300985
DO NOT DESTROY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 007255


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0
CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

CONF:

INFO: FILE

029165

( ~069101)

ACCORDING TO CARACAS 31117 WKTANGO-1 AND MORALES
NAVARRETTE HAVE ALSO BEEN INCLUDED IN ORLANDO BOSCH/UKSCARLET-3
GROUP. FBI REPORT QUOTING NUNEZ OF PARA 1 ABOVE STATED THAT
UKTANGO-1 AND MORALES NAVARRETTE ARE BOTH CONSIDERED TRUSTED PEOPLE
WHO HAVE BEEN COOPERATIVE AND INSTRUMENTAL IN CORU SUCCESSES AND IN
OTHER ACTIVITIES: INFORMATION IN CARACAS 31087 REPORTING
TRUE NAME OF HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO, BEFORE IT WAS ACTUALLY REVEALED
BY RICARDO IN PORT OF SPAIN ON 9 OCTOBER ALSO CAME FROM MORALES
NAVARRETTE, INDICATING THAT HE HAD FOREKNOWLEDGE, BUT WHETHER HE
KNEW THIS THROUGH PARTICIPATION IN PLANNING OR INFORMATION HE
RECEIVED FROM HIS OWN INFORMANT IS UNKNOWN. PUTTING ALL THIS TOGET-
HER, BAND IN LIGHET OF CARACAS 31117 INFORMATION, WE
CANNOT HELP BUT WONDER IF THERE IS NOT MORE GOING ON THAN IS APPARENT.

(~064447)

CARACAS 31088 ALSO SEEMED TO SUSPECT THIS AT AN
EARLY STANGE.

4. WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOUR VIEWS ON THE FOLLOWING:

A. LIKELIHOOD OF UKSCARLET-3 REVEALING INFORMATION WHICH
COULD IMPLICATE ANY OF HIS SEVERAL EMBASSY CONTACTS.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMP 0

CLASSIFIE STIC

SECRET

SIGNAL CENTER USE

0 0 0 0 0

BATE-TIME GROUP

ens

3

MESSAGE REPEREMOS se

CONF:

INFO: FILE

929165

DISSEM BY:

PER

B. POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT OF WKTANGO-1 AND/OR MORALES NAVARRETTE.Y

WE WOULD ALSO LIKE TO HAVE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON THOSE ARRESTED ALONG WITH BOSCH AND POSADA, ON WHOM WE HAVE NO INFORMATION. Y

5. PLS ADVISE WHAT YOU HAVE BEEN ABLE TO LEARN THROUGH LIAISON CONTACTS WITH WKTANGO-3 AND UNILATERALLY FROM UKSCARLET-٩٠٧

6. FILE: 200-6-484/3; 201-0300985: 201-0285923; 201-0067860.
   E2 IMPDET.

![C/LA/COGWIN]

![C/LA/CARA]

DATE: 15 OCT 76

ORIG: ROBERT W. ANDREUS

UNIT: C/LA/PNC/V

EXT: -1735

![signature of releasing officer]

CLAD

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![signature of authenticating officer]

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 007255

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

X-REF.

TYPE. SUMMIT

REC. LATE

DATE 3/16/76

VOL. FILED IN

201-0300454

CA-A-31187

15 OCT 76

201-0157561

THE ABOVE DOCUMENT(S) ARE CROSS-REFERENCED TO THE 201 FILE CITED AND/OR LEFT MARGIN, FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THE LOCATION OF THE FILE CONTAINING THE SECOND COPY DOCUMENT, CALL FILE, SECTION, OR SLICK 4127.

FS 106,1 CL V 054479

FILE 201-031045

![photo of C symbols on the side]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

## Incoming Pouch Message

SUBJECT. (Optional)

PROMENYERI ISABELLE EXTENSION NO HVCA-21673
IP/AN GR-219 DATE 14 0ct 76
EXT. 8104 1446 305394-
SECRET E2 IMPDER CL BY 00591 TUBE ET-C
TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) DATE OFFICER'S COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
INITIALS to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. CLA/PNC B

ACTION COPY

2. 
3. LAPNC/V 9 Chuan

4. ExA Q Detaed

5. L-C -

6. File 201-

7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
USE ONLY

FORM 610A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# DISPATCH

CAUTION-BLANK FORM REQUIRES
SECURE STORAGE
IN.FIELD

SECRET

TO
Chief, LA Division

FROM
COS, Caracas

SUBJECT
WKMAYOR/WKSCARLET--Termination of WKSCARLET-3

WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND
METHODS INVOLVED

Forwarded herewith is an agent service record
for WKSCARLET-3 who was amicably terminated on
13 February 1976. Forwarded as a separate cover
attachment is the termination secrecy oath executed
by WKSCARLET-3 at the time of termination.

![signature of Frederick C. BRADSPIES]
Frederick C. BRADSPIES

Attachment:
Agent Service Record, h/w
Termination Secrecy Oath, usc/tnp

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - C/LA, w/atts a/s

![handwritten text indicating document workflow]

E2, IMPDET.


RECORD COPY


HICA-20673

14 October 1976

SECRET

201-0300985


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# SECRET
AGENT SERVICE RECORD

1. AGENT: WKSCARLET-3

2. PROJECT: HKHAYOR

3. AGENT RECRUITED BY: Perry G. DRAPKIN DATE: 2 February 1968

4. CAPACITY IN WHICH AGENT SERVED: Penetration of HKSCARLET

5. RATE OF PAY: Bs 2,000.00 or U.S.$466.62 at recruitment.

6. OTHER COMMITMENTS: None

7. AGENT DISMISSED BY: Frederick C. DATE: 13 February 1976
   BRADSPIES

8. REASON FOR DISMISSAL: Loss of access of interest.

9. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS: On 13 October 1976 Subject was arrested by Venezuelan security agents on suspicion of involvement with others in the destruction of a Cubana aircraft near Barbados on 6 October 1976. Chief, NVIDEA Caracas has prohibited any Station contact with Subject until further notice.

10. IS AGENT RECOMMENDED FOR REUSE? Depending upon resolution of question as to involvement in above cited incident. Suggest no further use of Subject.

11. MANNER OF DISMISSAL AND ATTITUDE AT DISMISSAL: Subject was amicably terminated by Caracas Station officer.

12. LETTER OF TERMINATION OBTAINED? Yes SECRECY AGREEMENT: 13 Feb 76

13. OTHER COMMENTS: None

SECRET

![RECORD COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

I, Luis Clemente Posada C., am about to terminate my association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which concerns the present and future security of our country. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage laws of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLE'NLY SWEAR, WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS, AS FOLLOWS:

1.  I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or otherwise, any information relating to the national defense and security and particularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods, personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the Organization or his authorized representative.

2.  I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that I am not satisfied with the decisions of the Organization concerning any present or future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action to obtain satisfaction without prior written notice to the Organization, and then only in accordance with such legal and security advice as the Organization will promptly furnish me.

3.  I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of the Organization, having come into my possession as a result of my duties with the Organization or otherwise.

4.  During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the Organization I have been given an opportunity to report all information about the Organization, its personnel, and its operations which I consider should receive official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information which it is my duty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor am I aware of any violations or breaches of security which I have not officially reported, except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other attachments.

5.  I have been advised that, in the event I am called upon by the properly constituted authorities to testify or provide information which I am pledged hereby not to disclose, I will notify the Organization immediately; I will also advise said authorities of my secrecy commitments to our government and will request that my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

6.  I am aware of the provisions and penalties of the espionage laws of our government and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn to by me under this oath may subject me to prosecution under the terms of these laws, and that violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances warrant.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my signature hereto with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRET

It will be retained in the files of the Organization for its future use or for reference by me at any time in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of the matters included within the scope of this onth.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this 13th day of February 19 76

Signature

![signature]

Witnessed by me this 13th day of February, 1976 at Caracas, Venezuela.

![signature]

Neyle C. Theriault

SECRET

301-310915-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

SECRET

13 OCT 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

TRON : Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division

VIA : Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT : Previous Agency Association With Persons
Allegedly Responsible for Bombing of
Cubana Airlines Flight

1. On 6 October a Cubana airlines flight crashed shortly after takeoff from Seawell airport at Barbados. Seventy-eight persons aboard were killed in the crash. The passengers were mostly Cuban, but also included a North Korean delegation and the wife of the Guyanese DCM in Havana.

2. Following the incident the Trinidad and Tobago police detained two Venezuelan citizens who they believe are connected with the bombing. The suspects are Jose VAZQUEZ Garcia and Freddy LUGO, both holders of Venezuelan passports. On subsequent interrogation by the Trinidadian potice it was learned that Vazquez is an alias used by Hernan Ricardo Lozano.

3. There are no Headquarters traces on Lugo, Lozano, or the alias Varquez. According to the Legal Attache in Caracas, however, both Lugo and Lozano are employed as investigators by an industrial security firm operated by Luis POSADL Carrites. Posada is a former salaried agent of the Agency. lle is a Cuban exile, naturalized Venezuelan, who was formerly head of the counter-intelligence divisi n of the Venezuelan civilian security service. Posada to... his job with the security service in March of 1974 and was amicably terminated by the Caracas Station in June of 1974. The Station continued in occassional contact with Posada pending resolution of problems concerning his U.S. income taxes. His last reported contact with the Station was in June 1976 when he unsuccessfully sought Station assistance with a visa problem.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET.

1. Salvador ROMANI ORUF Garcia, a Cuban exile who is a journalist in Caracas, has been reported by an untested Caracas Station source to be suspected by Cuban Embassy officials as involved in the plane crash. Their suspicion is based on the fact Romani was seen surveilling a Caracas hotel occupied by members of a Cuban fencing team, who subsequently were killed in the crash. Romani was employed by Caracas Station from September 1960 until December 1966 as a writer and press placement asset in the Station's anti-Castro propaganda campaign. His termination was somewhat less than amicable, but in March of 1967 Romani was paid a termination bonus and signed a quit claim.

5. Caracas Station and Headquarters have no further information of Agency association of any of the other individuals thus far mentioned in connection with the Cubana crash.

cc: DDCI

CONCUR:

signed
Raymond A. Warren
Raymond A. Warren

/ Deputy Director for Operations

13 OCT 1976
Date

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRET

SUBJECT: Previous Agency Association with Persons
Allegedly Responsible for Bombing of Cubana
Airlines Flight

DEO/DC/LA/OPS/N/D.Winters:tch (13 October 1976) (81173)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - DCI
1 - DDCI
1 - Ex Reg
2 - DDO
1 - ADDO
2 - C/LA
1 - LA/OPS
1 - LA/CAR
1 - LA/PNC/V

SECREГ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

# SECRET

ARI SEC DISSEN D PF

FUSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANTE ISSUEDISIO
ALTION UNI!

LAS

ACTION

F FILE VR ICTAN, C14, clops,

PS/EG2, 056, OSG/OC

REPRODUCTIONFOLAR JAY
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAF PRECEDENSE

T 29 96 44 EI A6 93 PAGE 01-01 IN 26 78 46

-TOR:132220Z OCT 76 CARA 31115

SECRET 1322162 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31115

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WN INTEL AXULE

1. FYI, STATION HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM SEVERAL SOURCES
   WHICH INDICATE ALMOST CERTAINLY THAT WKSCARLET-3 WAS ARRESTED BY
   DISIP 12 OCTOBER AND IS BEING DETAINED UNDER SUSPICION OF
   INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT NEAR
   BARBADOS. ALSO, THAT WK SCARLET-3'S OFFICE WAS RAIDED AND ALL
   FILES CONFISCATED MORNING 13 OCTOBER,

2. FILE: 201-0300985. E2 IMPDET.

> [Figure: A hand-drawn block of text labeled "TROAR PROCVAN" and "LAPNEV"]

RECORD LO

SECRET

201-300985.
13 Oct 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

DATE TIME GROUP:
122244Z

DIRECTOR

CONF: /LAB INFO: FILE /LSNVID, ClOPS,

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER:
926531
DISSEM BY: 48
RETURN TO PER OSSP
#132

TO: IMMEDIATE FBI//INTELLIGENCE DIVISON.

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE

TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

SUBJECT: TRACES ON PERSONS INVOLVED IN 6 OCT 1976 CUBANA CRASH

CIR-294-76
SHOULD BE CIRA-

1. THIS AGENCY HAS CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF THE NAMES OF

PERSONS SUSPECTED OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER 1976 CRASH OF THE

CUBANA AIRLINES FLIGHT OFF THE COAST OF BARBADOS. WE HAVE NO CIA

TRACES ON HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO, AKA HERNAN RICARDO LOZANO, ALIAS JOSE VAZQUEZ GARCIA: FREDDY LUGO OR E. SEALY.

2. WE HAVE DETERMINED THAT THIS AGENCY HAD A RELATIONSHIP WITH

ONE PERSON WHOSE NAME HAS BEEN MENTIONED IN CONNECTION WITH THE

REPORTED BOMBING:

LUGO'S EMPLOYER IN CARACAS IS LUIS POSADA CARRILES,

FORMER HEAD OF THE COUNTERINTELLIGENCE DIVISION OF THE DIRECTORATE

FOR THE SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP), THE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT: WKSCARLET-3

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
E 2 IMPDET
CL. BY: 012913


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF. INFO: FILE

12

2

DIRECTOR

926531

DISSEM BY:

VENEZUELAN CIVILIAN SECURITY SERVICE. POSADA IS A FORMER AGENT OF CIA. HE WAS AMICAELY TERMINATED IN JULY 1967 BUT CONTACT WAS RE- ESTABLISHED IN OCTOBER 1967. HE LOST HIS POSITION WITH DISIP IN MARCH 1974 AS A RESULT OF A CHANGE IN THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT AND WAS AMICABLY TERMINATED. WE CONTINUED OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH HIM. HIS LAST REPORTED CONTACT WITH US WAS IN JUNE 1976 WHEN HE UNSUCCESSFULLY SOUGHT ASSISTANCE REGARDING A VISA PROBLEM.

3. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FRON GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 58(2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.Y

DATE: 12 OCT 76

ORIG: LEN THERRY:RB

UNIT: LA/CAR

EXT: 9156

![signature of C/PCS/LSN]

C/PCS/LSN

![signature of I. Winter, LA/OPS]

I. Winter

LA/OPS

![signature of C/LA/CAR]

C/LA/CAR

E 2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# SECRET

CABLE SEC DISSEM PER

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

RF FILE VR

CL/RAY C/059 CLOPS/INT Clops/164 DD03

T 291926 EI A1 61 PAGE 81 IN 264944

TOR:091836Z OCT 76 CARA 31120

SECRET 0918262 OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31102 (HACKELING ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

NIACT DIRECTOR

WNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE.

REF: DIRECTO 926098

1. REF CORRECT THAT CRYPTONYM IS WKSCARLET-3 WHICH RECEIVED INCORRECTLY DUE TO ERROR IN TRANSMISSION (FIGURE AFTER NUMBER 3 WAS OPEN PAREN). AMBASSADOR BRIEFED ON FORMER STATION RELATION- SHIP WITH WKSCARLET-3 WHO TERMINATED ON 13 FEBRUARY 1976.

2. STATION HAS NO FIRM INFORMATION INDICATING WK SCARLET-3 INVOLVEMENT EXCEPT FOR SPECULATIONS OF LEGAL ATTACHE, CIRCUM- STATIAL EVIDENCE IS BASED ON APPARENT ASSOCIATION OF TWO SUSPECTS DETAINED IN TRINIDAD WITH WKSCARLET-3 AND ITEM FROM RICARDO MORALES TO LEGAL ATTACHE (WHOSE ACCURACY WE CANNOT JUDGE) TO EFFECT THAT WKSCARLET-3 ALSO LEAVING VENEZUELA.

3. FILE: 221-302985. E2 IMP DET.

![LAPNY]

SECRET

RECORD COPY

201- 300985
9 Oct 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

# SECRET

STAFF

CONF: C/LA 8 INFO: FILE C/IfrAy D003 000/00 C/C14
CIPS/ECO Clos9 ClorStINT ClOPSITEY

TO: IMMEDIATE CARACAS.

NIACT CARACAS

UNINTEL RYBAT KMSTONE

REFS: A. CARACAS 31088 |IN 064447|

B. CARACAS 31087 IIN 0644241

1. REF A INDICATES THAT YOU HAVE BRIEFED AMBASSADOR ON SALVADOR
   ROMANI'S FORMER EMPLOYMENT BY AGENCY. IT APPEARS FROM REF B AND OTHER
   INFO REPORTED BY LEGATT CARACAS THAT WKSCARLET-3 ALSO PROBABLY IMPLI-
   CATED IN BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER. THEREFORE RECOMMEND THAT. IF
   YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY DONE SO, YOU BRIEF AMBASSADOR ON WKSCARLET-3'S
   PAST CONNECTION WITH AGENCY AND CURRENT RELATIONSHIP,
   IF ANY. PLEASE ADVISE.

2. CRYPTONÝM IN PARA 2 REF B RECEIVED AS WKSCARLET-36. PLEASE
   ADVISE WHETHER WE CORRECT IN ASSUMING WKSCARLET-3 WAS MEANT.

3. FILE: 201-300985. E2, IMPDET.

B 201-282136

REF A - PLVWCADET/MESSAGE FROM AMBASSADOR TO ASST SECY SHLAUDERMAN

REF B - INFO RE CUBAN AIRLINES BOMBING RECEIVED BY LEGATE.

DATE: 9 OCT 76
ORIG: L. COOLEY/PK
UNIT: LA/PNC/V
EXT: 1715


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# SECRET

STAFF

TO: IMMEDIATE CARACAS.

NIACT CARACAS

WNINTEL RYBAT KNSTONE

REFS: A. CARACAS 31088 |IN 064447|

B. CARACAS 31087 |IN 064424|

1. REF A INDICATES THAT YOU HAVE BRIEFED AMBASSADOR ON SALVADOR ROMANI'S FORMER EMPLOYMENT BY AGENCY. IT APPEARS FROM REF B AND OTHER INFO REPORTED BY LEGATT CARACAS THAT WKSCARLET-3 ALSO PROBABLY IMPLICATED IN BOMBING OF CUBANA AIRLINER. THEREFORE RECOMMEND THAT. IF YOU HAVE NOT ALREADY DONE SO. YOU BRIEF AMBASSADOR ON UKSCARLET-3'S PAST CONNECTION WITH AGENCY AND CURRENT RELATIONSHIP.

IF ANY. PLEASE ADVISE.

2. CRYPTONÝM IN PARA 2 REF B RECEIVED AS UKSCARLET-36. PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER WE CORRECT IN ASSUMING UKSCARLET-3 WAS MEANT.

3. FILE: 201-300985. E2, IMPDET.

REF A - PLVWCADET/MESSAGE FROM AMBASSADOR TO ASST SECY SHLAUDERMAN

REF B - INFO RE CUBAN AIRLINES BOMBING RECEIVED BY LEGATT.

DATE: 9 OCT 76

ORIG: L. COOLEY/PK

UNIT: LA/PNC/V

EXT: 1715


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# SECRET

lufs Clememe PAPA Carriles (201-3000)

ASCURLES (Cormerly ANCLIVE-15, CIFENCE-4)

DFC5 15 February 1920, Cienfuegos, Cuba

U.S. Permaneat Resident Alien (PRA) at least until 20 May 75. Possibly has lost status ne result of allowing his reentry permit to expire, but this not clear. We protected his PhA status while he worked for us in Caracas-- until termination June 74.

Also holds Venezuelan passport.

Entered U.S. as exile 20 February 1961.
Served U.S. ay as and Lt. Fort Benning March 63 - March 64.
Nember of Jas to early 65.

April 65 - granted POA and recruited by JMWAVE as instructor working for Training Branch sai as source of into on exile activities in Miami area. OA Oct 15.

Aug 60 - being used by JWAVE CI Branch to report on activities of "Central Junta" being organised to govern activities of RECE, Comandos L, MRT, and AVBC. Subject associated with RACE.

June 6T Subject known to FBI and Department of Justice us CIA employee. Cooperating with FRI/Mirai in investigation of Frank "Lefty" Rosenthal.

July 67 - Amicably terminated by JMAVE. Continuing to cooperate with FBI.

Αυς ότ Mentioned as CIA agent in broadcasts from LASO conference.

Oct 67 - Having obtained Job in DICEPOL, Caracas, Subject picked up by Caracas Station as unilateral penetration of DIGEPOL. Held several responsible positions--Chief of 4th Division, Explosives & Armoments, and Chier of CI section. Continued working for DISIP, successor to DIGEPC, during COPEI administration and was used by DISIP Chief, Dr. Remberto UZCATEGUI ΧΧΧΧΧΧΧΧΧΧΧ αι various sensitive operations.

March 73 Suspected by DEA or involvement in narcotics trafficking. (He was in Burope on Dwir business at the time.) Nay 73 "passed" polygraph on this subject.

March 74 Dismissed Frau DISIP, long with many others, when AD administration inaugurated. Terminated 30 June 14 due to loss of access. Sairy at time or termination 400 per month.

Contact with Surjeet continued because of outstanding problem re U.S. taxes, which was finally settled February 70. At that the Subject was informing Station re movements and activities of Orlando 30OSCH. Occasional ccutact continued at least through June To.

Agency protected Subject's Phi status from March 1970 until his termination June 19. in January 19.5, remo is sent to Alien Affairs Officer telling hia that les file could be "decentralized."

wescaiet 3 (F6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

WKSCARLET-3

October 1961 Employed at Firestone International Div. in Akron, Ohio.
1963 U.S. Army Platoon leader (2nd Lt) Fort Benning, Ga.
19 Aug 63 Polygraphed in connection with investigation for attendance at intelligence course. passed.
March 64 Released from active duty
May 64 Subject in charge of group setting up training camp in - Polk County, Fla. Was also an instructor.
June 64 Resided in Miami, was member of JURE
Jan 65 Subject assigned to M/V Venus and one of the plotters to take command of the M/V Venus, a 110-ft Panamanian vessel belonging to Manuel Ray Rivero, leader of JURE. Subject dispatched to Miami by Jose Ricardo Rabel Nunez, one of the chief plotters.
14&23 March 65 Subject approached by 281386 re using subject as Mexico?
weapons instructor in Mxexaxi, connection with planned coup. Station advised subject accept offer and report findings to WAVE
26 Mar 65 Recruited by JMWAVE/training as instructor and reporter on exile activities in the Miami area.
April 65 POA granted
20 Apr 65 Team leader of Cuban exile recruits for operational teams to participate in an attempt to overthrow the Guatemalan government.
15 Apr 65 Polygraphed on 1) whether he had withheld anything re his knowledge of Roberto Alejos Arug (Subject had withheld


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

info on a U.S. military uniform mentioned in a conversation related to the plan to overthrow Guatemala)

2) fact that Subj in contact with the group planning a been revolution in Guatemala; that Subject had/recruited to transport arms for the group from N.Y. (place of purchase) to Miami, that Subj had told no one of his connection with CIA; that he was not reporting to anyone other than CIA.

3) Fact that he never took part in any communist party activity; never worked for any Castro intell or security service and that apart from Cuba, he had no connection or agreement with the government of any other country. Polygraphed to verify that[^1] subject was not cooperating in any way with the govt.of any country other than U.S. and was not obligated to any Cuban exile group.2. He never did anything on purpose to cause an operation to fail and never tas took CIA equipment or cargo without authorization.

3. Did not assist in the training of any unauthorized persons since working for CIA.

4. Did not recall having discussed the details of his operational activities with any unauthorized person.

21 Apr 66

20 July 66
Subject requested permission to accept a position (military leader) as part of a collective Junta set up to govern the activities of joint forces working collectively in activities against Cuba.

26 Jun 67
In U.S. Dept of Justice investigation of Lefty Rosenthal, Subject was revealed as "attached to CIA" and as supplier of 240 lbs of C-4 explosives. The Dept had a report from its Security Squad which stated that Subject was CIA agent in a MxS GS status.

[^1]: 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

6 July 67 Justice Dept requested have Subject recontact Rosenthal for meetings for purpose of arresting Rosenthal for possession of goods passed to him by Subject. amicably

11 July 67 Subject terminated/by JMWAVE at Hqs instructions for loss of access (resigned from his position as a military coordinator/member of RECE) and security reasons (involved with Miami gambler Frank Rosenthal.

1 Aug 67 Subject informed KICOBALT-1 that he had offered his services to Bolivian Consul in Miami as interrogator/guerrilla fighter in Bolivia, offered $800 (Hqs in no way involved) Proposed to organize a group of Cuban glerrilla training officers. He left the impression that he departing soon

10 Aug 67 Traveled Caracas seek employment through an old friend who resided there.

17 Aug JMWAVE advised that no contact with subject be made because he mentioned as CIA agent on radio & TV LASSO conference and also involved shaby deals in Miami.

28 Aug 67 Returned to Miami obtain proper visa enable him work in Venezuela. Said he obtained job with DIGEPOL through Rafael Tremolst Gustavo Ortiz Faez

11 Sept 67 Subject's contract held in abeyance until he in place. Subject to be re-contacted by Station when he returne Caracas and starts new job.

28 Oct 67 Subject picked up as unilateral penetration of CIRASH and CIRASH-4.

1 Nov 67 Subject began working with DIEGPOL.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

28 Jan 68 POA requested on Subject for use as DIEGPOL penetration but cancelled because of his involvement in clandestine sobatage activities and failure to report complete stories of his activities. Subject handled as hostile until his motives completely ascertained.

22 May 68 Polygraphed re Purpose: To determine conclusively that he broke off completely with Lefty Rosenthal group and that he not currently involved in any illegal activity which could cause embarrassment to US Gov. and 1) Status of his relationship with his brothers 2) degree of his involvement with in theft and disposal of demolition and other sabatoge devices. 3) past illegal activities or association with gangster elements make him vulnerable to blackmail. 4) that he not engaged in activities hostile to to U.S. government. Subject was willing and eager to Pxxx take SWIRL. passed SWIRL exam 23 May with satisfactory clarification on all points of Kadera concern.

7-12 Aug 68: Attended Latin American student conference at Merida

17 Jan 69 Subject returned to Caracas (from Miami?-not clear in 201)

29 AUG 69 Subject ordered by CIVISTA to make surrepitious entry of Guayana Embassy in Caracas to get "any info of interest".

19 Oct 69 Left Caracas for Miami to investigate purchase of $300,000 worth of weapons by Richard Hart.

17 Nov 69 Subject making efforts preserve rights to become U.S. citizen while becoming citizen of Venezuela (which might be necessary for ops reasons i.e., to maintain his high position in GOV). Sought Station's help who, through Has was able solve problem.

18 Mar 70 Subject & family in Miami to process application for U.S. re-entry permits. Returned Caracas 20 March.

14 Apr 71 Subject sent by CIFENCE service to Lima to assemble bomb to be sent to former Venezuelan dictator Perez Jimenez. Subject requested Lima Station's help in mission. Station recommended against it.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

1 Sept 71 Subj notified that he to accompany Venezuelan Minister
of Interior (Loreazo Fernandez) on a 4 to 6 week trip
to Europe. Trip speculated to be Fernandez' touching
base for political reasons prior announcing his presidential
candidacy upon return.

28 Nov 71 OA requested for use as penetration of DISIP.

29. Νοv 71 Subject polygraphed to determine if DISIP and/or CIFENCE-1
    had knowledge of Subject's connections with Station; if
    he ever requested to work against U.S.; if he contacted
    either of his brothers since May 68; he involved with
    illegal arms smuggling. Result: answered truthfully, no
    indication of deception.

1 Dec 71 Travelled to Miami by his employer to purchase 25 nine
milimeter pistols for GOV use. (unable to refuse or evade
assignment).

17 July 72 OA granted.

Apr 72 Subject placed in charge of another CIRASH division with more
responsibility and importance. Initiated extensive
investigation of Prensa Latina and its Caracas Director
and the kidnapping of Venezuelan industrialist Carlos Emin
dominguez.

5 Feb 73 To Rome to aid in audio operation

12 Feb 73 Name mentioned in unspecified connection with several
members of the UIR who involved with narcotics.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

22 Feb 73 Subject refused a $30,000 bribe (from 2 U.S. attorneys) to influence Venezuelan government officials to drop charges against a representative of a New Jersey corporation.XXX The New Jersey Corporation (AVM) was instrumental in getting a $20,000 contract for the U.S. for the voting machines to be used in the December 1973 elections.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)