# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6 Apr 61

19-120-26
UR

6 April 1961

Chief, Contact Division
Support

Chief, Miami Office

Memorandum of Visit to: Julio Pablo RODRIGUEZ Nogueira
1330 S.W. 22nd Avenue
Miami, Florida

1.  Mr. Frank Watterson, representative of the US State Dept. in Miami, advised this office that Subject arrived in the US on 31 Mar 61 as an exile and that he might have information of interest to this office.

2.  On 4 Apr 61, Luis J.C. Rodriguez interviewed Subject in Watterson’s office. An examination of Subject’s passport disclosed that he was born on 23 Jan 1943 in Havana, Cuba.

3.  Subject stated that he is a member of a clandestine organization named United Revolutionary (UR), which is composed of 26 underground groups. The Coordinator for military operations of UR was Major Humberto SORI Marin, who was arrested recently. Among the leaders of UR are Rogelio GONZALEZ bottero known by his nom de guerre of "Faveloso"; and Rafael DIAZ also "Ralpa". All three individuals were arrested recently and UR is completely disorganized as a result.

4.  Subject also stated that his mission with UR was to serve as courier between the organization and the Catholic Chaplain at the Cabana fortress. The liaison between the Chaplain and Subject was Fray BALSIERO, who is the sexton at the Jesus de Miramar Church, in the suburb of Miramar, near Havana.

5.  Subject also made a trip to Sancti Spiritus in the Province of Las Villas bringing a radio transmitter for the anti-Castro guerrillas operating in the Escambray. Through the above mentioned priests, Subject obtained some information furnished by prisoners held in the Cabana fortress which is being forwarded in a repent memo.

6.  Subject intends to remain in the US indefinitely and has been instructed to contact a Cuban national named "Barcelo", who resides at 1321 S.W. 22nd Ave., Miami. Barocio is the UR representative in Miami.

7.  No further contacts with Subject are anticipated.

JUSTIN F. GLEASON

[signature]

L/Rodriguez/emb

Action chief in
guerilla
Command &
security risk

(re discipline)

by [illegible]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)