# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE: 16 DECEMBER 1958
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: WI 5

INFO: COP, FI, FI/OPS, FI/RCM 3, PP/PRD, PP/PYD' 2, PP/PMD, ICD 4, DD/1, AD/CI, S/C

ROUTINE IN 38553

TO: DIR
INFO: SACU
CITE: HAVA Ø693

INTEL

DA 16 DEC

APPR: PARAS 1,4 (2) PARAS 2,3 (3) PARAS 5-6

SOURCE: PARA 1 GEORGE K HARPER LAS VILLAS PLANTATION

OWNER (F) PARAS 2,3 AMARIA (B) PARA 4 AMDARK-1 (C) PARA 5 HARRY GRAHAM (F) FROM DR MEMBER (F)

1. ERNESTO GUEVARA HAS MOVED WESTWARD. HIS EXACT LOCATION NOT KNOWN BUT 165 MEN THOUGHT TO BE UNDER HIS COMMAND ARE CAMPED NEAR MANACAS IN WEST LAS VILLAS.

GUEVARA IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE SELIEVED TO BE TO CUT OFF CENTRAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC WEST OF SANTA CLARA. FC: AMBARK-2 CONFIRMS THIS REDEL STRATEGY, SAYS MAY BC PLANNING TRY CUT HIGHWAY AT SANTO DOMINGO. SC: HEAVY TRUCKS CANNOT TRAVEL EAST OF SANTA CLARA, BACKROADS CAN BE USED BY AUTOS AND LIGHT TRUCKS.

2. 26TH OF JULY REPLACING CTC LABOR OFFICIALS WITH OWN PEOPLE ON SUGAR CENTRALES WHICH IT CAPTURES.

CONRAD BEQUER DIAZ, WITH HQS IN CIERRA MAESTRA, IN CHARGE OF THE PROGRAM.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 16 DECEMBER 1958

TO

FROM

ACTION

INFO

INFO PAGE 2

ROUTINE
IN 38553
HAVA 093

3. MANUEL RAY, MRC CHIEF, IS VISITING SIERRA MAESTRA FOR CONFERENCE WITH FIDEL CASTRO DISCUSS CASTRO DESIRE DISSOLVE MRC AND INCORPORATE IT INTO 26TH JULY.

4. SMALL FEU FORCE ACTIVE NEAR COLISEO IN MATANZAS. ARMS SHIPMENT SEIZED IN CAYO HUESO, FLA WEEK 7 DEC WAS PURCHASED BY FEU FOR USE IN HAVA.

5. BATISTA HAS CONTRACTED FOR SERVICES 2 FRENCH ARMY OFFICERS EXPERIENCED IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TO ADVISE CUBAN ARMY.

SUPDATA: HQS MAY WISH QUERY [PARI]ON PARA 5.

DISSEN EMS DEF ORALLY.

RELEASED 1618302

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)