2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO 93-2030668

SECRET

PAGE: 1

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: CIC/LA INFO: C/ORMO, CIC/COWB, CICEDC, CIDORECORD, DOOPS,
INT/CC, INT/RQ, INT/RR, MDSX, NROC, ODPD, FILE, C/CIC, C/LA/RB5, CIC/CEG,
CIC/CEI, CIC/CEX, CIC/ISB, CIC/00-2, CIC/TA, DC/CIC, DC/LA/RB5, LA/CCG-4,
LA/CCGCAR-2, LA/CCGPL, NR/OPS, NR/RB, NR/RMS, NR/SCB-3, NR/WEST (27/P)

93 2030668 ASP PAGE 001
TOT: 060138Z APR 93 DIRECTOR 926886

SECRET

STAFF 060137Z DIRECTOR 926886

TO: PRIORITY NR/MIAMI.

FROM: CIC/LA INFO LA/CCG, NR/SCB, LA/CCGCAR

SLUGS: WNINTEL REAM

SUBJECT: REQUIREMENT FOR VZTOUCHDOWN

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. SLANK/1 (ORIGINALLY ENCRYPTED AMMUG/1, 201-749641) WAS ONE OF OUR EARLIEST CUBAN DEFECTORS. HE WAS A DGI
   OFFICER WHO DEFECTED 24 APRIL 1964 IN CANADA. FOLLOWING LENGTHY
   DEBRIEFING, HE WAS USED OPERATIONALLY AND FINALLY TERMINATED IN
   JULY 1967. WE WOULD LIKE TO RUN HIS NAME AND PHOTO BY
   VZTOUCHDOWN WHO MAY BE AWARE OF HIS CASE. (A REVIEW OF
   VZTOUCHDOWN'S REPORTING INDICATES THAT HE HAS NOT BEEN ASKED
   ABOUT SLANK/1.)

2. WE RECOGNIZE THAT THE DGI DOUBLE AGENT PROGRAM DID NOT
   BEGIN UNTIL AFTER SLANK/1'S DEFECTION AND THAT THE DGI NEVER USED
   DGI OFFICERS AS DOUBLES NONETHELESS, AS SLANK/1 PROVIDED
   INFORMATION WHICH INDICATED THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF CUBA PLAYED NO
   *ROLE IN THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION >WE NEED TO THE UP ALL LOOSE
   ENDS AS WE APPROACH THE THIRTY YEAR DECLASSIFICATION TIME LIMIT
   ON FILES COVERING THAT ERA. WE WOULD APPRECIATE, THEREFORE,
   HAVING YOU ASK VZTOUCHDOWN IF HE RECOGNIZES THE NAME AND PHOTO
   AND WHAT HE KNOWS ABOUT SLANK/1.

3. FILE: 201-749651, 201-1454012. DECL OADR DRV
   HUM 4-82.>
   ORIG: CIC/LA (WEBER, 39380); AUTH: C/CIC/LA (AUSTIN); COORD:
   C/LA/CCG; INFO: NROC; REL: C/NR/SCB. CL BY 0610917.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)