14-00000
104-10226-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

21 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. The DDP and Chief, SR met with Ambassador Thompson in his office to advise him of our plans to proceed to hostile interrogation in order to clarify the NOSENKO case. The DDP explained that while we had reached a firm conclusion late last year that NOSENKO was a pro- vocateur and that hostile interrogation was in order, we decided to review these conclusions with representatives of the FBI. After some unavoidable delay, a series of meetings was held with the FBI at the level of Deputy Director for Security, Mr. William C. Sullivan. The find- ings of the FBI, which agreed generally with our own views, were formulated in a letter to the Director signed by John Edgar Hoover. A copy of this memorandum was shown to Ambas- sador Thompson by the DDP with the comment that the FBI and ourselves now have a common understanding on the case which was something both the DCI and the Director, FBI, agreed would be necessary.

2. DDP went on to say that we would hope to begin hostile interrogations in the near future but before we did, we wanted to discuss the case with Ambassador Thompson in light of the various contingencies which might arise during the course of these interrogations. DDP felt that it was preferable to advise Ambassador Thompson well in advance of our intentions so that if consultations with the State Department became necessary on a contingency basis, Ambassador Thompson would be in possession of the background. Ambassador Thompson first asked if we were sure that NOSENKO could not escape and turn himself into the Soviet Embassy. We told him that we had established him in a country house with a large security guard which we felt made escape improbable. Ambassador Thompson then asked if there was a possibility that NOSENKO might commit suicide. We said psychiatrists did not believe he was the type to do so and that our security surveillance was such that we were alert to this possibility and would try to prevent it. Ambassador Thompson also wondered if there had been any communications concerning NOSENKO from the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Soviet side. He replied there had been none since si the
this country. confrontation last year following NOSENKO's arrival in
We then mentioned the attempts on several -occasions by NOSENKO's wife and mother to contact him
through the Embassy in Moscow brit added that these attempts
ceased in March 1964 and nothing has been heard from them
since.

3. Ambassador Thompson then asked if NOSENKO had
   provided information which would discredit any American
   officials. We answered in the negative, pointing out
   that he had reported on former French and Canadian
   ambassadors. We Tater qualified the statement on Americans,
   pointing out that NOSENKO did provide information on a few
   Americans of lesser rank as well as private citizens.

4. The DDP then noted that after we reached a
   point of no return in our interrogations, we might decide
   that NOSENKO would have to be turned back. Ambassador
   Thompson expressed concern that the Soviets might use this
   action to discourage defections. We explained that when we
   came to the point that a turn-back appeared desirable, we
   would hope that a statement could be made by the U. S. Govern-
   ment which would establish NOSENKO as a provocateur. The
   DDP then described the AEJOYFUL case in brief terms to
   Ambassador Thompson, emphasizing the parallel planning and
   the possibility that a quadripartite statement by the govern-
   ments might be considered. The DDP did note, however, that
   AEJOYFUL was in British hands and that they have the major
   responsibility even though we and other security and intelli-
   gence services had agreed on the handling of the case. The
   DDP then noted that in past cases where we had turned back
   people with intelligence backgrounds at their own request,
   the Soviets had not made publicity capital of these actions.

5. The earlier mention of our discussions with the
   FBI recalled to Ambassador Thompson some of the material on
   Soviet political issues which he has been receiving recently
   from the FBI. He commented that it was his very strong im-
   pression that the information was being fed to us by the
   Soviets. He said that it either consisted of information
   we already knew or that which the Soviets would not object
   to our having. He asked our views on this. The DDP com-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

pented that it was Che opinion of several officers in the Clandestine Services that some of these FEJ sources were mader Soviet control whereas the FBJ believed them to be genuine.

0. In summing up our position on the NOSENKO case for Ambassador Thompson, the DDP referred to the kinds of information the Soviets had given up throw SOSENKO. lie Rade particular reference to the Jolmson ce and observed that if the Soviets were prepared to provid this kind of build-up to insure the success of NOSENKO's mission, it must then be very important to them. In conclusion, the DDP said that he would send a letter for the record to Ar. Highes on the topic of NOSENKO to which Ambassador Thompson agreed.

David E. Murphy
Chief, SR Division


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)