# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JEWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Operational Transmittal of Operational Plan for ANTEUEK VII

ACTION REQUIRED/ REFERENCE: Action Required: Request Approval

References:

A. UPGA-8312, ANTEUEK Op Plan, 1 June 1963

B. UPGA-10436, Amendment of ANTEUEK Op Plan, 31 July 1963

C. UPGA-10533, Op Plan ANTEUEK V, 31 Aug 1963

D. UFGA-12725, Op Plan ANTEUEK VI, 27 Nov 1963

E. UFGA-13139, Amendment to ANTEUEK VI Op Plan, 18 December 1963

Transmitted for approval herewith is the operational plan for ANTEUEK VII. The ANTEUEK team is scheduled for infiltration on 7 February and for exfiltration on 19 February. A five-man team with intermediate Craft will be infiltrated into northern Batangas Province from which point the team leader, AMICE-14, and ANTEUEK-13 will proceed into Havana to accomplish the MEAPRON objectives of this operation. Approval is requested at the earliest possible time.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment: Op Plan (3 cys) - H/W

Distribution: S - C/CAS w/atts.

DATE TYPED: 22 Jan 64
DATE DISPATCHED:

DESIGN SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-13707

HEADQUARTER FILE NUMBER: 13-8-64/1

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OPERATIONAL PLAN

## CRYPTONYM

AMTRUNK VII

## REFERENCES

A. UFGA-9312, AMTRUNK Operational Plan, 1 J-10 1963

B. UFGA-10436, Amendment of AMTRUNK Operational Plan, 31 July 1963

C. UFGA-10933, Operational Plan - AMTRUNK V, 31 August 1963

D. UFGA-12725, Operational Plan - AMTRUNK VI, 27 November 1963

E. UFGA-13138, Amendment to AMTRUNK VI Operational Plan, 18 December 1963

## BACKGROUND

Operation AMTRUNK III/IV which was mounted in August 1963 was successful in that the two principals of the team, AMICE-27 and AMICE-14, were able to contact and to recruit two principal agents and several other action agents to lay the groundwork for the MHAPRON objectives of the AMTRUNK operation. One of the two internal P/A'S, AMTRUNK-9, was exfiltrated with the four-man ANTRUNK infiltration team for training and operational discussions in the JMWAVE area. In early September, AMTRUNK-9 was re-infiltrated into PBRUMEN in Operation AMTRUNK V, the same operation which exfiltrated AMFAUNAS -1, -3, -13 and -34. In late October AMICE-27 was separated from the clandestine part of the AMTRUNK operation. The original objectives of Operation AMTRUNK VI, postponed from December 1963 to January 1964, were to revitalize and re-direct the efforts of the two internal P/A's toward their primary task, 1.e. to spot and recruit among high level figures who are dissatisfied with the Castro regime. In late December, the scope of this mission was altered by the receipt of a commercial telegram in open code from AMTRUNK-9 indicating that he was in grave danger and wished to be exfiltrated. The twin objectives of Operation AMTRUNK VI then became: first, to exfiltrate AXTRUNK-9 and, this accomplished, for AMICE-14 to proceed to Havana for his task of re-channelling AMTRUNK-10's responsibilities. The exfiltration of AMTRUNK-9, who brought with him his entire family consisting of wife, brother-in-law, and three small children, was accomplished on 9 January 1964. The unexpected presence of AMTRUNK-9's family, coupled with reports of increased vigilance in the infiltration area, forced AMICE-14 to exfiltrate the same night without attempting to accomplish the second part of his mission.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 4. OBJECTIVES

A. To re-establish personal contact with AMTRUNK-10 and to secure his full cooperation in spotting dissidents within the higher levels of the military for the purpose of organizing a conspiracy against Fidel Castro.

B. To obtain from AMTRUNK-10 operational information on other MHAPRON recruitment targets.

C. To attempt the recruitment of FAR Captain and Cubana pilot Jose Alberto SEMIDEY Isalgue, a frequent personal pilot for Fidel and Raul Castro and an influential figure in civilian and military aviation.

D. Through the AMTRUNK ratline, to transport to Havana and cache a clandestine radio set for the future use of an infiltrated AMTRUNK radio operator. At the same time, to explore with ANTRUNK-10 and other internal contacts the possibility of safehousing and supporting a radio operator in Havana.

# 5. TASKS

A. The AMTRUNK Intermediate Craft will be towed by the KUBARK mother craft to the DRP at coordinates 221668, AMS Sheet 4085 IV (23° 14' 00" N and 80° 47' 00" W, H. O. 2624).

B. The AMTRUNK IC will then proceed to the vicinity of coordinates 133511, AMS 4085 III. At this point, AMICE-14 and/or AMTRUNK-7 will make contact with either Oscar DIAZ Jabiela-Garcia or his son Antonio DIAZ Torres in Casualidad (17654795, AMS 4085 III). These two individuals are knowledgeable of the fact that the AMTRUNKS may return to the infiltration area although they do not know even the approximate date. Oscar DIAZ and his son Antonio are prepared to activate the ratline consisting of three different taxis, to move AMICE-14 and AMTRUNK-13 into the Havana area. AMTRUNK-7 and -16, the team guides, and AMAGREE-1, the radio operator, will remain with the IC in the mangroves in the vicinity of the infiltration area until the return of AMICE-14 and AMTRUNK-13.

C. Once in Havana, AMICE-14 and ANTRUNK-13 intend to split up and seek refuge in different safehouses. They will maintain contact with each other, however.

D. AMICE-14's primary task vis-a-vis AMTRUNK-10 is to cement the recruitment of AMTRUNK-10 and to obtain his full cooperation to work toward MHAPRON objectives. In addition, AMICE-14 will teach AMTRUNK-10 an OWVL system and leave a receiver with ANTRUNK-10. AMICE-14 also intends to give AMTRUNK-10 a review


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

ECRET DYBAT

- 3 -

in the principles of secret writing.

E. Secondary tasks to be accomplished with AMTRUNK-10 are:

(1) To debrief him on his activities since AMICE-14 recruited him in August 1963.

(2) To collect operational information on other possible recruitment targets

(3) To explore the possibilities of accommodating and supporting an infiltrated radio operator.

F. AMTRUNK-13 will attempt the recruitment of Jose Alberto SEMIDEX Isalgue, a close friend of AMTRUNK-13's for 18 years and a first cousin of AMICE-14. The following is short biographical sketch of SEMIDEY:

age 37-38 years old. Born in Matanzas, the son of Brig. Gen. Jose SEMIDEY, ex-Comptroller of the National Army and veteran of the Spanish-American War. SEMIDEY studied for one year at Purdue University, Indiana. He and AMTRUNK-13 graduated from the second class of ANACRA Pilot Training School in 1942. SEMIDEY flew for Expreso Aereo Inter-Americano and Cuba Aeropostal for about 11 years before he became Interventor or Administrator for the latter company after the Revolution. After Cuba Aeropostal was absorbed into Cubana, SEMIDEY held various positions of importance in Cubana. He also holds the rank of Captain in the Rebel Air Force and reportedly has made reconnaissance flights and black flights carrying arms and/or agents to and from other Latin American countries. SEMIDEY has a close friendship with Victor PINA Cardoso, the Director of Civil Aviation, and is reportedly close to Raul CASTRO for whom he is a frequent personal pilot. Because of the close former friendship between AMTRUNK-13 and SEMIDEY and because of reports from AMICE-14's family which indicate that SEMIDEY has become disenchanted with the Castro regime, both AMTRUNK-13 and AMICE-14 consider SEMIDEY a prime candidate for re-cruitment.

G. If SEKIDEY should be out of the country on a flying trip at the time of infiltration, AMTRUNK-13 will attempt to set up contact with Commandante Rene de los SANTOS Ponce, who is reportedly stationed in Las Villas Province with a unit of "Lucha Contra Bandidos", an anti-counterrevolutionary force. AMTRUNK-13 and de los SANTOS are friends from boyhood and, for a period of 6 or 7 years, de los SANTOS worked as an apprentice plumber for AMTRUNK-13's

SECRET

DVRAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

- 4 -

RYBi..
DESENSITIZED

father and lived in their home. AMTRUNK-13 and de los SANTOS also worked together in the 26th of July under- ground in Havana.

H. To return through the ratline to the infil/exfil area. Recognition signals will be established with AMTRUNK-7 and -16 and AMAGREE-l who will be waiting with the IC in the mangroves in the vicinity of the lagoon at coor- dinates 129498, AMS 4085 III.

6. TIMETABLE

The scheduled date for the infiltration of the AMTRUNK tean at the DRP is 2200 hours, 7 February 1964. The exfiltration of the five team members with the ANTRUNK IC and rendezvous with the mother craft at the DRP is 2355 hours, 17 February, with an alternate on 18 February. If exfiltration is not successful on either of these dates, the radio operator will be in contact with the base and contingent plans for exfil- tration can be set up through this medium.

7. ANTRUNK PERSONNEL

A. See references for biographical information on AMICE-14 and AMTRUNK-7.

B. AMTRUNK-13

AMTRINK-13 is a 42-year-old Cuban citizen who has been a commercial airline pilot for most of his life. He is a high school graduate. In early 1959, AMTRUNK-13 was named Interventor of "Aerovias Q", one of the major Cuban airlines. He defected in December 1960 while still in that post. He is a native of Havana who was active in the 26th of July underground in that city from early 1957. While later in exile in the United States, AMTRUNK-13 made two clandestine flights into the Sierra Maestras during the war against Batista, the last bringing Provisional President Manuel URRUTIA Lleo from Venezuela for his first meeting with Fidel Castro in December 1958.

C. AMAGREE-1, Radio Operator

AMAGREE-1 is a 33-year-old Cuban citizen who has two-college degrees, in education and in journalism. He is native to the province in which the infil/exfil area is located. Until his departure from Cuba in August 1961, AMAGREE-1 was & municipal official in Matanzas Province and was active in the propaganda section of the 30th of November Movement. AMAGREE-1 began his association with KUBARK in April 1963 as a radio operator trainee. As in the case of ANTRUNK-13, this is his first operational mission.

SECRET

SENSITIZED

DAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

D. AMTRUNK-16, Guide

AMTRUNK-16 is a 41-year-old single Cuban citizen who, as a commercial fisherman, lived and worked in the infil/ exfil area all of his life. He participated in Operation AMTRUNK VI in December 1963 and his up-to-date knowledge of the infil/exfil areafrom which he fled in late October 1963, proved invaluable on this mission. While he was still in Cuba, AMTRUNK-16 was a trusted contact for the AMTRUNKS on both Operation III/IV and V.

8. COMMUNICATIONS

A. Primary.

RS-501 with special signal plan with continuous guard. channel. This equipment will remain with the ANTRUNK IC and will not be carried into Havana.

B. Alternates.

(1) OWVL

AMICE-14 will carry a RR-44 receiver with appropriate signal plan on the trip into Havana.

(2) AMICE-14, AMTRUNK-13 and AMAGREE-1 will all have in their possession a S/W system with indicators, materials and accommodation addresses in the JMWAVE area.

C. Case Officer Challenge

To be used to determine whether or not the radio operator, AMAGREE-1, is being controlled by a hostile force. C/O: "Diganos si los barcos de patrulla estar equipados con radar y armas pesadas". ("Tell us if the patrol boats are equipped with radar and heavy armament"). Radio Operator, if free from hostile control, will reply: "En Cuba no hay culebras venenosas". (In Cuba there are no poisonous snakes). Any other response to this question which the radio operator might give would indicate hostile control.

9. COVER

The entire infil/exfiltration using the IC will be black. During the trip to Havana, AMICE-14 and ANTRUNK-13 will devise their own cover stories to fit the individual situation, All five agents will be provided with false documentation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

10. FINANCES

The team will carry D5,500.00 of which D1,500.00 will remain with the personnel in the IC. AMICE-14 and AMTRUNK-13 will each take 22,000.00 into Havana.

11. CONTROL

Control over the five members of the ANTRUNK team takes the form of providing or denying them the wherewithal, both financial and material, to engage in clandestine operations against the Castro regime.

12. COMMITMENTS

No commitments have been made to any member of the team other than a broad commitment to continue to pay their salaries in the event they are captured and to continue to provide support to their families for a reasonable period of time in the event of their death.

13. SECURITY

Both AMICE-14 and AMAGREE-1 have bean granted OA's. The other three team members, AMTRUNK-7, -13 and -16, have been granted POA's. All five have been LCFLUTTERed.

14. TRAINING

A. AMICE-14

The earlier training of AMICE-14 has been supplemented with three additional weeks of tradecraft training and he has since received review training in weapons firing, maritime, OWVL and S/W.

B. AMTRUNK-13

Prior to dispatch of Operation ANTRUNK VII, AMTRUNK-13 will have received the following training:

(1) Three weeks of tradecraft training

(2) One week of maritime training

(3) One week of survival training

(4) One week of PM training accenting map and compass and weapons firing

(5) Three half-day sessions in S/W


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

C. AMAGREE-1

AMAGREE-1 has received the same training as ANTRUNK-13 above plus basic radio operator training which included the use of medium speed communications gear. AMAGREE-1. prior to dispatch time, will have received training in a special signal plan with continuous guard channel.

D. ANTRUNK-7

Since AMTRUNK-7's primary function on the ANTRUNK team is as a coastal guide, his formal training has been necessarily limited. He has received extensive maritime and weapons training and three days of instruction in basic tradecraft principles.

E. ANTRUNK-16

This agent's function on the ANTRUNK team is similar to that of AMTRUNK-7. He will have received PM and maritime training prior to dispatch.

15. DAMAGE REPORT

See Attachment A

16. EQUIPMENT LIST

See Attachment B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET RYC ATTACHMENT A
DESENSITIZED
DAMAGE REPORT

A. The damage report for AMICE-14 and AMTRUNK-7 remains the same as was transmitted in Attachment A to Reference D with the addition of Rudolph W. SOSPINE as "Jack".

B. Safehouses and Training Areas Exposed to ANTRUNK-13:

Safehouse #216
Maritime Training Site
Firing Range
Survival Training Site

C. KUBARK Personnel Exposed to ANTRUNK-13:

Irving N. PEGGINS as "Joe Webster"
Reuben A. HANNULA as "Fred Folsom"
Rudolph W. SOSPINE as "Jack"
Andrew S. PARMERS as "Angel Martin", training instructor
Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as "Dewey"
Alton T. PIRNACK as "Larry"
Fletcher K. THENE as "Harry"
Paul V. MENDECINO as "Ted"
Wilfred R. KNEAFSY as "Pete"
Floyd H. RUSANO SKI as "Jack", LCFLUTTER operator
Keith D. WINETT as "Jim"
Paul I. NAPOLILLI as "Paul"

D. Agent Personnel Exposed to ANTRUNK-13:

AMICE-27 by true name
AMICE-14 by true name
AMAGREE-1 as "Mario Ramirez"
AKAKA-1 as "Antonio Garcia"
AMTRUNK-7 as "Carlos Menendez"
AMTRUNK-8 as "Tomas Rodriguez"
ANTRUNK-9 as "Jose Lopez"
AMTRUNK-16 as "Juan Gonzalez"
AMPAL-1 as "Joe"
AMSKILL-1 by training alias
AMSWING-2 by training alias
Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNE"

E. Safehouses and Training Areas Exposed to AMAGRKE-1

Safehouse #174
Safehouse #216
Maritime training site
Survival training site
Firing range

SECRET
DESENSITIZED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

RYBA.
DESENSITIZED

F. KUBARK Personnel Exposed to AMAGREE-1:

Irving N. PEGGINS as "Joe Webster"
Reuben A. HANNULA as "Fred"
Rudolph W. SOSPINE as "Jack"
Andrew S. PARMERS as "Angel Martin", training instructor
Daniel V. GUSSOW as "Bill" " " "
Humphrey O. EDDERY as "Ski" " " "
Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as "Dewey" " " "
Alton T. PIRNACK as "Larry" " " "
Fletcher K. THENE as "Harry" " " "
Paul V. MENDECINO as "Ted" " " "
Wilfred R. KNEAPSY as "Pete" " "
Floyd H. RUSANOWSKI as "Jack"
Paul I. NAPOLILLI as "Paul", LCFLUTTER operator

G. Agent Personnel Exposed to AMAGREE-1:

AMPANIC-14 as "Enrique", training instructor
AMPAL-l as "Joe" " "
AMSKILL-1 by training alias, training instructor
AUSWING-2 " " "
AMLABEL-1 as "Terry"
AMTRUNK-7 as "Carlos Menendez,"
AMTRUNK-8 as "Tomas Rodriguez,"
ANTRUNK-9 as "Jose Lopez"
AMTRUNK-16 as "Juan Gonzalez"
ANSONIC-1 as "Juan Sanchez"
AMHINT-48 as "Paco Gonzalez"
AMLITAINT-1 by true name
AMICE-14 "
AMAKA-1 "
Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNE"

H. Safehouses and Training Areas Exposed to ANTRUNK-16:

Safehouse #104
Safehouse #216
Maritime Training Site
Firing Range

I. KUBARK Personnel Exposed to ANTRUNK-16:

Irving N. PEGGINS as "Joe"
Reuben A. HANNULA as "Fred"
Stuart V. KAPRIDNO as "Dewey", training instructor
Alton T. PIRNACK as "Larry" " "
Wilfred F. KNEAFSY as "Pete", LCFLUTTER operator
Keith D. WINETT as "Bill"

SECRET
DESENSITIZED
RYRAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET
- 3 -
  MAT

J. Agent Personnel Exposed to AMTRUNK-16:

AMICE-14 by true first name and training alias
AMTRUNK-7 by true name
AMTRUNK-8 by true name
AMTRUNK-9 as "Jose Lopez"
AMTRUNK-13 as "Maximo"
AMAGREE-l as "Mario"
AMAKA-1 as "Antonio"
AMLABEL-1 as "Terry"
Captain and Crew of "NEPTUNE"

SECRET
DESENSITIZED
DVDAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET
RYBAT
A
DESENSITIZED
ATTACHMENT B
EQUIPMENT LIST

Five-man infiltration team (2 infiltrees, 2 guides and radop)

A. Material to be Cached:

1 RT-48 Medium Speed Communications Gear

B. Personal Weapons and Equipment

1. 5 Belgian Browning 9 mm. Pistols

2. 2 M-3 SMGs

3. 2 FAL 7.62 Automatic Rifles

4. 200 Rounds 9 mm. Ammo

5. 400 Rounds 45 Cal Ammo

6. 300 Rounds 7.62 Ammo

7. 12 Magazines for 9 mm. Ammo

8. 10 Magazines for 45 Cal Ammo

9. 15 Magazines for 7.62 Ammo

10. 2 Sten Ammo Carriers

11. 2 BAR Ammo Carriers

12. 5 Pistol Belts

13. 5 Belt Holsters for 9 mm. Pistols

14. 5 Pr. Suspenders

15. 4 Canteens w/cup and cover

16. 1 Entrenching Tool

17. 1 Machete w/scabbard

18. 3 Trench or Bowie Knives v/scabbards

19. 1 Pr. Binoculars

20. 5 Silva Compasses

SECRET
DESENSITIZED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

- 2 -

IBAT
DESENSITIZED

21. 5 UDT-type Watches

22. 5 Plastic Waterproof Flashlights

23. 5 Backpacks

24. 20 Waterproof Bags

25. 5 Swiss Pocket Knives

26. 5 Zippo Lighters

27. 2 Metascopes

28. 5 Penlights

29. 10 Plastic or Rubber End Caps for 45 Cal SMG Magazines

30. 6 Hand Grenades

C. Rations

1. 12 Black Concentrated Rations

2. 20 C-Rations (1 box - 3 meals)

3. Assorted Cans Fruit, Meat, Beans, etc.

4. Assorted Packages Rice, Dry Beans, Coffee, etc.

5. 100 Bouillon Cubes

6. 6 Packages Tropical Chocolate Bars

D. Medical Supplies

1. 1 Corpsman's First Aid Kit with Morphine Syrettes and Codeine (in metal container)

2. 5 Individual First Aid Kits

3. 100 Coricidin Pills

4. 100 APC Tablets

5. 100 Water Purification Tablets

6. 100 Vitamin Tablets

7. 100 Acromycin Tablets

SECRET DESENSITIZED

RYRAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

E. Clothing

1. 5 Sets Fatigue Uniforms, HBT Shirts and Trousers
2. 5 Fatigue Caps
3. 5 Civilian Sport Shirts
4. 5 Prs Civilian Trousers
5. 5 Pr. Civilian Shoes
6. 5 Pr. Jump Boots
7. 5 Leather Belts
8. 15 T-Shirts
9. 15 Pr. Undershorts
10. 15 Pr. Socks
11. 5 Pr. Light Gloves
12. 5 Sets Foul Weather Rubber Uniforms
13. 5 Berets
14. 5 Green Ponchos
15. 5 Pr. Insulated Underwear
16. 5 Field Jackets

F. Communications Gear

1. 1 RR-44 Receiver (for OWVL)
2. 1 RS-501 w/Signal Plan (continuous guard channel)

G. Secret Writing Materials

1. 3 Sets S/W Materials with Extra Carbons and Extra Vials of Developer Pills

H. Intermediate Craft

1. 16' 7" Boston Whaler, "Currituck" Model, Painted Dark Green, Outfitted with Wide-Angle Towing Rig


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SFCRET

- 4 -

2. 2 75 hp Commercial Outboards w/Tool Kit

3. 7 Fiberglass Outboard Fuel Tanks, Capacity 13 Gal. Each

6 Horizontal Tanks, Size 11¼ x 26¼ x 12"

1 Vertical Tank, Size 13¼ x 26¼ x 10¼"

4. 5 Flotation Cushions

5. 2 Air Mattresses

6. Extra Propellers and Drive, Shear and Cotter Pins for both Commercial Outboards

7. 5 Black UDT-type Life Preservers

8. 1 Fire Extinguisher (for Gasoline Fires)

9. 1 12-lb. Anchor

10. 2 Hoses for Transferring Fuel from One Tank to Another (or 3 feet of 3/4 inch Plastic Tubing)

11. 2 Oars, Length 10 feet

12. 2 Wooden Push Poles, Length 12 feet, Diameter 2¼"

13. 1 Plastic Bailing Bucket, 1 foot deep

14. 2 5-Gallon Plastic Jerrycans (for water)

15. 8 Extra Spark Plugs (4 for each Commercial Outboard)

16. 3 Rolls, Non-Shiny Plastic Tape

17. 50 ft. ⅜ inch Nylon Rope

18. 200 ft. Parachute Cord

19. 1 Small Hammer

20. 1 Pr. Pliers

21. 1 Screwdriver

22. 1 Spark Plug Wrench

23. 2 Upright Poles, 3½ feet in Length, w/Oarlocks


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

- 5 -

DESENSITIZED

24. 1 Ritchie Compass

25. 1 Sheet Camouflage Material, 20' x 10'

26. 1 RB 9.6

27. 1 HRT-7 Beacon

I. Maps

## Maritime Charts

2 H.O. 1002

2 H.O. 2624

2 H.O. 0944

Series E723, 3-AMS, 1:50,000

2 ea. Sheets 4085 I 4085 IV

4085 II 4085 III

4084 I 4084 IV

J. Miscellaneous

1. Cleaning Gear for 9 mm Pistol, M-3 SMG and FAL including RIG Gun Grease

2. 200 ft. Parachute Cord

3. Box of Matches and Waterproof Containers for same

4. 12 Polyethylene Bags

4--Large Enough to Contain FAL

4--Large Enough to Contain Assembled M-3

4 18" Size for Personal Documents, etc.

5. 2 Sheets Infra-Red Paper, 18" x 24"

6. 1 Dynalite

7. 14 Extra Flashlight Batteries

8. 4 Flashlight Bulbs

9. 8 Extra Penlight Batteries

SECRET

DESENSITIZED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET
- 6 -
  "BAT
  DESENSITIZED

10. 4 Packs Lighter Flints

11. 4 Cans Lighter Fluid

12. 1 Set Parallel Rulers

13. 1 Set Dividers

14. 2 Protractors, Metal

15. 2 Pocket Rulers, Metal

16. 1 Flat Mill File

17. 1 Pocket Carborundum Stone

18. 1 One-Burner Gas Stove--Butane Gas or Similar Type--w/Extra Cylinders of Gas

19. 1 Cooking Pot (at least 8" in Diameter)

20. 5 Knife-Fork-Spoon Sets

21. 2 Messkits

22. Box of Insect Repellent, 48 Small Plastic Bottles

23. 6 Cans Spray Paint, Black

24. 1 Can Saddle Scap

25. 1 Package of Sponges

26. Toilet Paper

27. Hand Soap and Detergent

28. Paper Plates

29. Plastic Spoons

30. Assorted Fishhooks and Line

31. 8 Burlap Bags

32. Assorted Empty Cardboard Boxes


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)