# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION: Mrs. Dorothy Turner
Room 5E03

FROM: Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Operational Support)

SUBJECT: (SAFLEY, Harold F.) (A)
#73036

1. This is to advise that a CIA Identification Card will be issued in the above captioned alias to an employee of TFW. You are requested to establish an indices card in the above alias in order that the Office of Personnel will be in a position to acknowledge any inquiries that might be received concerning the Subject.

2. Upon receipt of any inquiry, you are further requested to promptly acknowledge Agency employment for such individual and then to advise the Chief, Cover Support Section of the Office of Security, extension 6280 or 7380 or in the latters absence, Mr. George Ladner, TFW/Security, extension 6055.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

![signature of Victor White]

CC: 00/C

KUHNKE/efb
6 November 1962
PENDING M/R: See TFW memorandum dated 5 November 1962 which was concurred in by Moorhouse of CCS with the understanding that I would advise Mr. Bannerman of the action taken and obtain his approval upon the latters return on or about 9 November 1962. An exception was made in this case to the general rule that CIA identification in alias will not be issued to (State Department) integrees. The exception was granted because of the Subject's position and long experience in matters of this nature and due to the fact that it will be strictly controlled and limited to assignment which will be directly by Mr. Harvey.

Ervan E. Kuhnke, Jr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   016229 SWENSON, Harold F.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

| 6. FUNDS |
| - - - |
| V TO V |
| CF TO V | V TO CF |
| | X | CF TO CF |

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP
Task Force W
Office of the Chief

73086

DATE PREPARED

24 October 1962

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH DAY YEAR

REGULAR

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
   ABLE Office of Personnel)

3132-1000-1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

ATTACHE, POL OFF
OPS OFF (D BR CH) (D) 0663 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

FSR
GS (15) 0136.01 15 (2) $ 15,045

18. REMARKS

From: DDP/WH, Br. 2, BuenosAires, Argentina, #0084

1 cy Security

CONCURRENCE Date 29 OCT 1962

> [Figure: a stamp marking with text 'Security Approval has been granted for the use contemplated by this request Chief, Personnel Security Division']

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED
OFFICER

LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFM/Pers.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

| 19. ACTION CODE | 20. EMPLOY. CODE | 21. OFFICE CODING | 22.STATION CODE | 23. INTEGREE CODE | 24. HDOTRS. CODE | 25. DATE OF BIRTH | 26. DATE OF GRADE | 27. DATE OF LEI |
| - - - | - - - | - - - |
|  |  NUMERIC | ALPHABETIC |  |  |  | MO. DA. YR. | MO. DA. YR. | MO. DA. YR. |

| 28.NTE EXPIRES | 29. SPECIAL REFERENCE | 30. RETIREMENT DATA | 31. SEPARATION DATA CODE | 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA | 33.SECURITY REQ. NO. | 34. SEX |
| - - - | - - - | - - - |
| MO. DA. YR. |  | CODE | 1 CSC | TYPE | MO. DA. YR, |  |
|  |  |  | 3 FICA |  | EOD DATA |  |
|  |  |  | 5 NONE |  |  |  |

| 35. VET. PREFERENCE | 36. SERV. COMP. DATE | 37. LONG. COMP. DATE | 38. CAREER CATEGORY | 39. FEGL! / HEALTH INSURANCE | 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO. |
| - - - | - - - | - - - |
| CODE | 0 NONE | MO. DA. YR. | MO. DA. YR, | CAR/RESV | CODE | 0 WAIVER | HEALTH INS. CODE |  |
|  | 1-5 PT. |  |  | PROY/TEMP |  | 1-YES |  |  |
|  | 2-10 PT. |  |  |  |  |  |  |

| 41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA | 42. LEAVE CAT. CODE | 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA | 44. STATE TAX DATA |
| - - - | - - - | - - - |
| CODE | 0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE |  | FORM EXECUTED | CODE | NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS | FORM EXECUTED | CODE | NO, TAX STATE CODE |  |
|  | 1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE |  | 1 YES |  |  | 1 YES |  |  |  |
|  | 2 BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS) |  | 2 NO |  |  | 2 NO |  |  |  |
|  | 3 BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS) |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |  |

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

46. O.P. APPROVAL

> [Figure: a stamp marking with text 'GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic doc.']

FORM 1152 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION
4-62 AND FORM 1152A.

DATE APPROVED

(4)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)