2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

IP/CFS 1 B 4003 6740 DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. HM 788

HOLMES RUSSELL

2. CI/EXO

3. 2 D 4921

4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. Tube DT-6

IP/CFS

Our records indicate that the attached document is classified into a file currently charged to you/your office.

Permanent Temporary

Please file this document in the 201 Subject file since it may be of immediate value. Destroy this coversheet after material is filed.

If the file is no longer held by your office, please indicate its present location so we may correct the charge.

If you do not know the location of the file, please return this coversheet together with the attached material and fill in the following:

Check if unable to locate

Suggest possible location:

Signature:

Office designation:

12027

CL BY: 062147

SECRET

1993.07.19.14:50:37:460280


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR: STAFF

DATE-TIME GROUP: 030016Z

CITE: DIRECTOR

CONF: AF9 INFO: FILE: PLAN EUR8, 44, PS/E62, OPS/INT

TO: BRUSSELS INFO PRETORIA, DAR ES SALAAM

UNINTEL SESCYTHE TOPHONE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 937078

DISSEM BY: 45

REFS: A. OBBA-35455 DATED 19 AUGUST 1976 (BEING POUCHED PRETORIA)

B. DIRECTOR 9362246

1. HQS READ WITH INTEREST REF A REPORT BY TOPHONE/1 ON HIS CONTACTS WITH SOUTH AFRICAN ANC AND PAC REPRESENTATIVES IN DAR ES SALAAM. IN CONNECTION WITH REF B PROGRAM, HQS WOULD APPRECIATE TOPHONE/1 MAINTAINING CONTACT WITH SUBJECTS REF A (P.K. LEBALLOS, DAVID SIBEKO AND VUZ MAKE OF PAC AND MZIMKULU AMBROSE MAKIWANE OF ANC) BY CORRESPONDENCE, TO OBTAIN INFORMATION ON PLANS AND ACTIVITIES OF THEIR RESPECTIVE ORGANIZATIONS, AND LEADS AND INTRODUCTION TO EUROPEAN BASED REPRESENTATIVES.

2. HQS WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE TOPHONE/1 EXPLOITING ANY EXISTING CONTACTS OR ACCESS TO EUROPEAN BASED REPS OF ANC, PAC, SASM OR SASO WITH VIEW TOWARD OBTAINING INTELLIGENCE AND ASSESSMENT DATA ON PERSONALITIES FOR POSSIBLE RECRUITMENT.

3. FILE: 201-306052; 72-300-001; 72-300-004. E2 IMPDET-H

DATE: 26 OCTOBER 1976

ORIG: L. SANDS:RG

UNIT: AF/ES/S

EXT: 1949

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)