104-10178-10112-1012025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

NCLASSIFIED """TERNAL ONLY CONT ENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM

C TSD/AB/PDS
212 Central Building

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

EXTENSION NO AB Memo No, 9605
DATE 24 April 1968

DATE
OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show hom who to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. C/TSD/AB 25 APR 1969

2. 
3. C/TSD/AGG 26 APR

4. 
5. TSD/COP APR 298

6. 
7. TSD/REG 30 M PW

8. 30 APR 1968

DDP/P
may
Dear Tom; FYI
SINCE I UND BASTAND you originsted this Romt. you might be interested in the result. - Sich

9. DDP/CI 34 Apr 1965
   Attn: Mr. Richard Ober
   2 C 43 Headquarter MAY 1858.

Thaidpor

10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

'RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

104-10178-10112

![CD:P 4747]

AB Memo No. 9605
24 April 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDP/CI

ATTENTION : Mr. Richard Ober

SUBJECT : Identi-Kit Composite of James Earl Ray

1. In response to your request of 20 April 1968, an Identi-Kit composite of the subject was completed on that date, and the coded information was communicated to you for dissemination. The composite was assembled 03 by the undersigned with the cooperation of Mr. Joseph Baglio, of this office.

2. We are forwarding, for your information, a copy of the composite, along with the photographs and list of stations received from your office.

![signature of Edward M. Sudol]
EDWARD M. SUDOL
TSD/AB/PDS

Attachment: (1 env., h/w)
As stated

Distribution:
Original & 1 - Addressee (W/Att.)

![stamp]
281-6532732

21BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

104-10178-10112

SECRET

SECKER

TO: DDP/CI
ATTN: Mr. Richard Ober
FROM: TSD/AB PDS
Attachment: h w to AB Memo No. 9605
DATED: 24 April 1968

SECRET

201-6832732


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

104-10178-10112

![drawing of person's face with numbers and letters around it]

H50 C32x2 E31 D82 N35x2 128x2

Photograph shows left ear stands away from head in pronounced manner, and it should be noted eyes were drawn in since they were closed when photograph was taken.

According to description subject is 5'10" tall, weighing from 163 to 174 pounds.

Subject is said to have a small scar on forehead, exact location not stated, and another scar on palm of right hand.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

104-10178-10112

*   Arancion - San Jose
*   Bogota San Salvador
-   Brasilia Santiago
*   Buenos Aires Santiago De Los Caballeros
-   Caracas Santo Domingo
-   Georgetown Sao Paulo
-   Guatemala City Tegucigalpa
-   Guayaquil
-   Kingston
*   La Paz
-   Lima
-   Managua
-   Montevideo
*   Panama City
-   Port au Prince
-   Port of Spain
-   Porto Alegre
-   Quito
-   Recife
    *Rio de Janeiro

99

VBR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

104-10178-10112

- Barcelona

✓ Berlin

- Bern

- Brussels

✓ Copenhagen

✓ Frankfurt

- Geneva

✓ The Hague

- Hamburg

- Helsinki

✓ London

✓ Madrid

- Lisbon

✓ Munich

- Oslo

- Ottawa

✓ Paris

- Remo

✓ Stockholm

- Vienna

✓ Zurich


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

104-10178-10112

* Hong Kong
* Manila
* Tokyo

99

* Beirut
* New Delhi
* Rawalpindi

99

2188


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)