# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: OBYEDKOV, Ivan Dmitrievich
261-779495

INCLUSIVE DATES: Aug. 64 - March 77

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 15 AUG 1978   | 15 Aug 1978   | LOPES                    | Edmund Juan Joy                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

![MATERIAL FILED IN IMS FOLDER IS IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

DATE: TIME & HOUR

3203472

CONF 1PAP-9 INFO: FILE

TO: LONDON.Y

FROM: SE/CI/X INFO SE/X/EU,E/BC Y

SUBJECT: WNINTEL CKTOP JAGUAR/IVAN DMITRIYEVICH OBYEDKOV (201-779495)

REF: LONDON 81224 IN 2003461 4

1. OBYEDKOV ACTED AS A GUARD AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY, ALTHOUGH HE APPEARED TO BE BETTER EDUCATED THAN HIS DUTIES AS A GUARD WOULD DEMAND. AMONG HIS MAIN DUTIES, HE TENDED THE SOVIET EMBASSY TELEPHONE, STOOD GUARD DUTY AT THE GATE, TOOK MESSAGES FOR OTHER SOVIETS, NOTIFIED THEM OF MEETINGS, AND ARRANGED APPOINTMENTS. HE ALSO OCCASIONALLY DROVE ONE OF THE EMBASSY CARS ON ERRANDS. DURING HIS TEHRAN TOUR, HE WAS ALSO LISTED AS A GUARD AT THE SOVIET EMBASSY. HE WAS OBSERVED TO BE VERY SECURITY CONSCIOUS. Y

2. ON BOTH PRECEDING TOURS OBYEDKOV APPEARED TO FUNCTION AS A LEGITIMATE GUARD AND WAS NEVER OBSERVED IN THE ACT OF PERFORMING ANY INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES. BECAUSE A SOVIET IS LISTED AS A GUARD AT A SOVIET EMBASSY, IT DOES NOT FOLLOW THAT HE IS NECESSARILY A KGB OFFICER. SINCE WE HAVE NO EVIDENCE TO SUPPORT AN INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION WE WILL NO LONGER CARRY HIM AS SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY KGB.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RECORD COPY

12 Mar 77

201-779495.

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY:035018


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CORP INFO: FILE

CPB WASHINGTON

PAGE 2

000781

DISSEM BY:
RETURN TO: PER

3. FILE: 201-779495. E2, IMPDET.A

M
ORIG: SE/CI/X (JONSSON, 1911) COORD: SE/X/EU (C. BACNAMARA),

E/B (S. BROWN), C/SE/CI/X (NOYES), REL: C/E/BC (A. STIMSONBE).

DATE: 9 MARCH 1977

ORIG: JONSSON/DTM

UNIT: SE/CI/X

EXT: 19011

C/SE/CI/X Arbyss-

SE/X/EU C.Maelburara

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPOET
CL BY:035018

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1.71MFO 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY: **Sp133**

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT: **TPOP5**
FILE: VR

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

T 636975 EIA248 PAGE 01-01 IN 200346
TOR:2814312 FEB 77 LOND 81224

SECRET 2813592 FEB 77 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE LONDON 81224

TO WASHINGTON.

FOR: SE/BIO INFO SE/CI

SUBJ: WNINTEL CKTOR JAGUAR

REF: DIRECTOR 719659, 17 JUL 1975

1. JAGUAR NOTES THAT *IVAN OBYEDKOV* (SUBJECT REF) IS NOW WORKING AS AN ELECTRICIAN AT SOVIET EMBASSY, LONDON, THEY INQUIRING REASONS WHY WE CONSIDERED HIM SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY KGB AND ALSO ASKING, IF POSSIBLE, FOR A DESCRIPTION OF THE FUNCTION HE PERFORMED AS GUARD AT SOVIET EMBASSIES IN TEHRAN AND MEXICO CITY.

2. FILE: 201-779495. E-2 IMPDET

SECRET

28 FEB 1977
201-779495


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ORF 0 0 0 0 0 2x 1

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: SE5 INFO: FILE UP/AN. EURY DIRECTOR

201-0779495

TO: LONDON.Y

CKTOP JAGUAR TRACEY

REF: LONDON 63248 |IN 629248| |*|y

FOR LIAISON LESS 2014 TRACE REILY

OBYEDKOV (201-0779495) AND WIFE HAVE SON, VLADIMIR,
BORN CIRCA 53. IN 65 OBYEDKOV SPOKE POOR SPANISH. OBYEDKOV WAS A
GUARD FOR THE SOV EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY FROM 28 AUG 62 TO 4 AUG 65;
AND A GUARD FOR THE SOV EMBASSY IN TEHRAN FROM 15 AUG 67 TO PRIOR
APR 71. DURING BOTH TOURS, OBYEDKOV'S WIFE SERVED AS PRINCIPAL
OF SOV SCHOOLS. OBYEDKOV IS CONSIDERED SUSPECT RIS, PROBABLY
KGB, BASED ON HIS POSITION. E-2 IMPDET.H

*REQUEST TRACES PCS SOV.

MD 641970



DATE: 15 JULY 1975

ORIG: CHARLIE WOODWARD/CF

UNIT: SE/BIO

EXT: 1079

EURBC

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CABLE SIC DISSEM BY L PER SOP
TOTAL COPIES 12-1
SECRET
PPMALIN UNIT NOTIFIED
AUYANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED BY
AL LION UNIT RF FILE VR MAN EUR 4
ACTION # T 149631 EIA106
PAGE 01-01
TORI101040Z JUL 75

SECRET 100944Z JUL 75 STAFF
CITE LONDON 63248
TO: DIRECTOR,
CKTOP JAGUAR TRACE

1. JAGUAR REQUESTS TRACES ON IVAN DMITRIYEVICH

OBEDKOV, BORN 28 JUL 27, RYAZANSKAYA OBLAST,
WIFE: YELENA LVOVNA OBEDKOVA NEE DMITRIYEVA,
BORN 04 MAR 28, MOSCOW. POSTING: TWO YEARS SOVIET
EMBASSY REPLACING ANATOLIY IVANOVICH SUKHOV
(201-905449), MD #221776

2. FILE DEFER, E2, IMPDET.

RECORD COPY
SECRET

10 Jun 75
201-779495


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SB

INFO: Chief, NE

FROM: Chief of Station, Tehran

SUBJECT: REDTOP AEKICK

PCS Departure - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

X NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1. For your information, we no longer carry Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495), guard at the Soviet Embassy in Tehran, as PCS. He was not listed on ROGWEN's April 1971 Presence List nor their December 1971 list. We assume he has departed PCS.

2. During OBYEDKOV's tour in Tehran his wife, Yelena, served as principal at the Soviet school. His son was apparently in Moscow living with Yelena's mother. On 23 October 1969, ROARC reported the grandmother calling to check with OBYEDKOV regarding a tutor for the child. They discussed the possibility of the tutor coming for three times a week, at five rubles per hour, but OBYEDKOV, after checking with his wife, decided on two times a week. OBYEDKOV seemed to be very fond of his mother-in-law. According to our AESCREEN transcriber, she was the only one that could tell OBYEDKOV what to do.

3. The following are comments made by our AESCREEN transcriber on OBYEDKOV on 8 July 1970:

He is very security conscious, especially in dealing with "official people" or superiors. He mentions his name to his friends freely, but refuses to say his name when he knows that one of the superiors is calling, "this is the duty officer" OBYEDKOV would say several times. He often lectures people when they violate security regulations when talking on the telephone. OBYEDKOV has to be persuaded several times or even

(continued)

ATTACHMENT:

Photo, h/w

DISTRIBUTION:

2-C/SB, w/att., a/s
2-C/NE, wo/att.

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO: ATT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: NITA-25520

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 7 February 1972

HQS FILE NUMBER: ✓201-779495


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
NITA-25520
begged if someone needs help (getting a vehicle or when asking for a favor), but when he decides to help, OBYEDKOV will stay with the problem until he gets results. Although OBYEDKOVA seems to be more cultured and better educated than her husband, it is certain that only OBYEDKOV makes the final decisions. OBYEDKOV could be very pleasant, helpful and even kind, but it usually depended on his mood.

5. The only Soviet we noted as being friendly with OBYEDKOV during his tour here was Rafik Nazhaf-Ogly ABDULLAYEV (201-808524), Third Secretary, suspect RIS, probable KGB. When speaking to one another they used the familiar "ty". We do not know the extent of their relationship.

4. Forwarded herewith is a photograph, date unknown, received from ROGWEN. We have destroyed the Station file.

Marcia A. BURGOON


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                             |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                                      |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC, SYMBOL NO.  4. DATE      |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 6. DATE OF INFO. 8. EVALUATION  |
| 9. DATE PROCESSED               | 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE                        |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |
| 14.                             | PERTINENT INFORMATION                               |

ORYEOKOV, IVAN DMITRIYEVICH 041-008-005
201-779495 NITA-23060A01
SEX M D08 ? 09 DEC 68
CIT ? P4
OCC ?
CHIEF GUARD, SUSPECT RIS. WIFE YELENA LVNOVNA
IS DIRECTOR, DEPENDENTS SCHOOL.

R 6903190152

FILE IN 201-779495

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
9-57

SECRET

(7-60)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SB

Int: Chief, NE

FROM: Chief of Station, Tehran

SUBJECT: REDTOP: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. Request traces on:

Ivan Dmitriyevicen OBYEDKOV (201-779415)
born 27 August 1927, Ryazan
passport: S-105042 issued 26 May 1967
wife: Yelena born 1923, Moscow
passport: S-105043 issued 26 May 1967
occupation: guard, Soviet Embassy, Tehran
arrived: 15 August 1967.

Photocopies of the OBYEDKOVS' passports are attached.

2. According to the 1963 and 1964 Checklists of Soviet Officials Abroad, one Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV (201-121531); born 14 July 1912; wire Yelena; A number 04377, was present in Mexico City since August 1962 as an employee of the Soviet Embassy. The. Checklist for 1965, lists one Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495); born 14 July 1912; wife Yelena; A number 41970, as an employee of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City since August 1962. Apparently these two OBYEDKOVS are one in the same and although Subject's birthdate is different we believe he is identical with the OBYEDKOV who served in Mexico City. Recently a conversation was recorded on ROARC during waich Subject used several Spanish words and expressions. It is possible Subject acquired a knowledge of Spanish during a previous tour in a Spanish speaking country such as Mexico. Please compare the attached photo of Subject with that of the OBYEDKOV who was assigned to Mexico City to determine if they are identical.

Veronica L. ANTELARKE

RIS INPUT LO. 14

Attachment: As stated, h/w
Distribution:
2 C/SB w/att
1C/NE w/o/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

NITA-21,826

7 September 1967

SECRET

201-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Tehran

FROM: Chief, Se via Chief, WE

REFERENCE: VITA-21826, 7 Septemoer 1967

1. Forwarded herewith are Suamary Traces in SPA format on Ivan Dmitriyevich DGYBUKOV (201-779495) who is suspect KIS. Paragraph 20 of the Summary is for passage to liaison.

2. Subject is not identical to Ivan Ivanovich OBYLDKOV (201-121531). When Subject first arrived in Mexico in August 1962, he was reported as Ivan Ivanovica and this orror was not corrected until May 1905; therefore, two Checklists carried the wrong an PCS in Mexico. When the records were corrected, the Subject's birthdate was not, and the same date was listed for both parties. Headquarters records do not list a wife or other dependents for Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV and, as far as is known, he has not been assigned abroad PCS prior to the date of this dispatch.

Rita N. TULJANIC

ATTACHMENT: "Soviet Personality Report" h/w

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - COS, Tehran w/att., a/s

> CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: NITW-11583

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 15 November 1967

HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-779405

OFFICE: SB/O/NE

OFFICER: Betty Given

TYPIST: ii

EXT.: 5604

COORDINATING:

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE  | OFFICER'S NAME |
| ------------- | ----- | -------------- |
| CSB/9/NE      | 20 L? | Walter Lope    |
| SE/CI/K       | 27..  | B. Pizen       |
| SB/CI/G       | 77/N  | 28. Stilin     |

OFFICE SYMBOL: CNE/GTI/1

RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRE

PREPARED BY: Rita N. TOLJANIC

DATE: 3 October 1967

201-NUMBER: 201-779495

A NUMBER: A 41970

1. NAME: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

2. DPOB: 27 August 1927 or 19 July 1927 in Ryazan

3. CITIZENSHIP AND PASSPORT DATA:

a. USSR

b. Service passport S009260, used while Subject was in Mexico

c. Service passport S105042, issued 26 May 1967

6. CURRENT POSITION:

Guard in the Soviet Embassy, Tehran

7. RELATIVES:

c. spouse - Yelena Lvovna possibly nee DMITRIYEVA, born 1928 in Moscow. She traveled to Mexico on Service passport S009270. She served as the director of the Soviet Primary School in Mexico City and ran the summer camp in Cuernavaca.

d. children - a son, Vladimir Ivanovich, born 1953.

e. Boris Lvovich DMITRIYEV and Mariya Borisovna DMITRIYEVA, who are probably wife's brother and sister-in-law. During Subject's stay in Mexico they occupied Subject's apartment in Moscow, given as Moscow E-143, Metrogorodok, Otkrytoye Shosse 26, Building 7, Apartment 69, telephone G3-72-34.

![image of stamped word SECRET and other illegible text]

AHI NITW 11583

201-774445


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRE

-2-

7. (cont'd)

In May 1964 Subject spoke to "Boris" in Moscow about certain purchases for the apartment, and Subject's wife also spoke to her mother, who apparently lived with Boris and his wife.

8. LANGUAGES:

Russian - native

Spanish - poor

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

-3-

9. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:

Photo number S010797

![photo of a woman and a man]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

-4-

10. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, AND HABITS:

Although Subject acted as a guard at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, he appeared to be fairly well educated and was not subservient to any of the other Soviets, with the exception of Counselor Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV. (201-028975). On one occasion Subject was reported to be helping the daughter of Commercial Counselor Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO with her arithmetic homework. On another, Subject was asked about methods of producing metal wire, a subject on which Subject was well informed as a result of his having once worked for a wire factory.

Subject had a tape recorder at home which he liked to listen to. lle also occasionally went fishing with other Soviets..

Subject told "Boris" in Moscow to build a large garage, because he was bringing a big car back with him. He also asked whether Boris had bought a refrigerator and TV for the apartment. On another occasion he was negotiating for a can of paint to take back to Moscow with him to repaint "the Moskvich". Subject and his wife were both buying watches just before leaving Mexico. From the above it appears that Subject was fairly well-off financially, for a guard.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

-5-

11. CURRICULUM VITAE:

Date unknown - Subject reportedly worked at the Serp i Molot (wire) factory in Leningrad.

28 August 1962 - Subject, accompanied by wife and son, arrived PCS in Mexico as an employee of the Soviet Embassy. Subject replaced Vyacheslav Aleksandrovich YEGOROV (201-273431), who is suspect GRU.

6-19 November 1962 - Subject was in the hospital in Mexico City. On the 11th of November he underwent a three hour operation of unspecified nature. The other Soviets had to guard him when he came out of the operating room.

17 August 1963 - Subject stated that he had just returned from a trip with Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (201-261813), who is known GRU. There was no information on where or why the trip was taken.

4 August 1965 - Subject departed Mexico PCS, transiting Belgium on his return to the USSR. He was accompanied by Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052) who is known KGB. Subject was replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN (201-782164).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION:

Mexico City Station considers Subject suspect RIS because he appears better educated that his duties as a guard would demand, because he seems financially better off than other Soviet guards and because of his apparent association on equal footing with Soviet RIS officers. DERYABIN in 1955 advised LNERGO that the surname OBYEDKOV was familiar to him as the name of a person who was in the Guards Directorate of the MVD in 1951.

In September 1967 DERYABIN and RASTVOROV said that they neither recognized the face nor the name of the Subject. (Both Ivan Ivanovich and Ivan Dmitriyevich were seen by the defectors and they did not recognize either of them.)

13. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

There was no intelligence activity noted on the Subject's part while he was stationed in Mexico.

14. NON-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

Subject primarily handled the main Soviet telephone and took guard duty at the gate. Subject took messages for other Soviets, notified them of meetings, and contacted them for appointments with each other. He occasionally drove one of

SECRET

201-779495


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

-7-

14. (cont'd)

the Embassy cars on errands. ile kept a ledger of the telegrams sent out by the Embassy and notified other Soviets when cables came in for them.

15. CONTACTS:

a. Soviet friends and associates.

1.  Valeriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-293945),
    employee in the Soviet Trade Representation in Mexico from February 1961 to May 1964, suspect RIS. When the ANDRIANOVS left Mexico they were planning to get in touch with Subject's family in Moscow.

2.  Aleksandr Mikhaylovich DENISOV (201-726491), Second Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from August 1962 to April 1967, known GRU. Subject appeared not to like DENISOV. It also appeared that DENISOV was responsible for reimbursing Subject for the gas Subject used in- KUKHARENKO's car.

3.  Aleksey Nikolayevich GANIN (201-757775), known GRU officer who visited Mexico 31 July - 14 August 1964.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

-8-

Subject, along with other Soviets who were known GRU officers, met GAVIN on his visit to Mexico.

4. Sergey Semenovich KUKIIARENKO (201-260831), chief of the Soviet information Bulletin in Mexico from October 1962 to August 1964, suspect KGB. Subject and KUKHARENKO were the best of friends for a time, but ther KUKHARENKO began drinking too much and getting into various scrapes. Subject frequently commiserated with KUKHARENKO's wife over her husband's drinking, automobile accidents, money problems. Subject occasionally used KUKHARENKO's car..

5. Oleg Pavlovich MOSKVICHEV (201-285090), employee in the Soviet Trade Representation in Mexico from March 1961 to July 1964, known KGB. Subject gave MOSKVICHEV his home address in Moscow..

6. Vladimir Nikolavevich RADVANSKIY (201-298171), code clerk at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from September 1964 to March 1967, known KGB. Subject is not known to have associated with RADVANSKIY; however, Subject's wife and RADVANSKAYA worked together in the school and children's camp, and

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

15. (cont'd)

RADVANSKAYA took over the camp after Subject's wife left Mexico. RADVANSKAYA asked Subject's wife to tell her (RADVANSKAYA'S) daughter to enter the institute when she saw her in Moscow.

7. Vladimir Aleksandrovich ROMANCHENKO (201-727109),
   Second Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico from August 1963 to July 1967, no known RIS affiliation. When ROMANCHENKO was in Moscow on leave in May 1964, Subject told "Boris" (believed to be Subject's brother-in-law) to send letters to him through ROMANCHENKO when he came back to Mexico.

8. Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602), Commercial Counselor in Mexico from July 1962 to circa December 1966, suspect GRU. Subject's wife and Mrs. VISKO taught together in the school and seemed to be good friends. Subject also seemed to be friends with Mrs. VISKO, and he reportedly helped the VISKO's daughter with her arithmetic homework on at least one occasion.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

20. TRACES FOR LIAISON:

Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV, born 27 August 1927,
accompanied by his wife Yelena Lvovna, and son, Vladimir
Ivanovich, born 1953, were stationed in Mexico City from
August 1962 to August 1965. Subject was a guard in the
Soviet Embassy. Subject is suspect RIS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Some of

I would like to have all the material pertaining to

Ivan Dmitrijevich Obystkov (201-777495) removed from

Ivan Ivanovick Obyeoltov's file (201-121531) and reclassified into Ivan Emitrijeviche file.

This material to be removed has Ivan Ivanovichi's name on it and refers to his being PC5 in Mexico, which he was not, Ivan Dmitrijevich was.

If this note is too confusing and you have further question please call Betty Griven, 50/0/NE,
8x1043.

CC OCT 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# DISPATCH

Chief, 33. Division

Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

REDTOP - Voice Samples of Soviets in Mexico

Forwarded herewith for Headquarters retention are voice samples, taken from LIENVOY, of the following Soviets previously stationed in Mexico:

Ivan Gavrilovich ALFERYEV (201-236701)
Yuriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-230429)
Ivan Afanasyevich PEKETOV (201-754500)
Ina Nikolayevna BOLDOVA (201-245416)
Vasiliy Karpovich BUTSEV (201-273883)
Yuriy Aleksandrovich DOMRACHEV (201-297666)
Aleksey Ivanovich GARMASHEV (2010277418)
Vladimir Petrovich GULIN (201-734985)
Viktor Petrovich KALININ (201-735049)
Nikolay Konstantinovich KELEBNIKOV (201-227420)
Sergey Sergeyevich KONSTANTINOV (201-101794)
Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052)
Sergey Semenovich KUZHARENKO (201-260831)
Oleg Maksimovich NECHIPORENKO (201-305870)
Vladimir Petrovich OBRUBOV (201-731394)
Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)
Aleksandr Petrovich PAVLOV (201-761265)
Georgiy Aleksandrovich KHCHUCHKIN (201-243728)
Vasilty Vasilyevich SIMONOV (201-735055)
Sergey Iosifovich SOKOLOVSKIY (201-025485)
Gennadiy Fedorovich STROGANOV (201-735030)
Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602)

for/Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
Voice samples.
Distribution:
2-CSB, w/att., H/W
1 - CWH, w/o att.

HMMA - 31217

27 JANUARY 1967

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

OBYEDKOV & WIFE

1. 15-60-55 Dec. 16, 64 L34-M5-T537 #451to 490
   In. 1532 hrs. IRA VISKO & ANDREY SOKOLOV talk to OBYEDKOV in Russian.

2. 15-60-55 18 Dec. 64 L34-M8-T587 #9143
   Out. 1919 hrs. OBYEDKOV talks to New York in Spanish.

3. 15-60-55 18 Dec. 64 L34-M8-T587 #462
   1939 hrs. MF talks to OBYEDKOV in Spanish.

OBYEDKOV & WIFE

4. 15-60-55 26 Dec. 64 L34-M8-T594 #328
   In. OBYEDKOV talks to his wife in Russian.

> [Figure: A partially blurred image of an OBYEDKOV film reel.]

CRYEDKOV

201-779495


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# DISPATCH SECRET

TO:
Chief, SR Division

INFO:
Chief, WH Division

FROM:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:
REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

REFERENCE: HMMA-26177, 28 May 1965 SR TRAVEL INPUT PROGRAM

1. LIFIRE reported the departure on 7 July 1965 via Sabena flight 556 for Brussels (and the USSR) of Subject's wife and son. According to LIENVOY, Subject will follow in September. It is not known whether this travel is PCS or TDY.

2. Travelling on the same flight with Subject was Lyudmila Ivanovna ZHEVTUN (201-754502), who has gone on home leave to the USSR.

3. The Station would appreciate a reply to the Reference, which requested clarification of Subject's identity.

for
Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
2 - CSR
1 - CWH

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA - 26658

DATE
22 JULY 1965

HQS FILE NUMBER
201-
FFN: P-8125


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SR Division

INFO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

REFERENCES: A. HMMA-26824, 10 August 1965

B. MEXI-4485, 19 August 1965

1.  Reference A reported the departure of Subject from Mexico on 4 August 1965. The Station now believes that Subject departed PCS, and that he has possibly been replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN, whose arrival on 14 August 1965 was reported in Reference B.

2.  According to LIENVOY, KARCHIN has been answering the telephone at the Soviet Embassy, a duty for which Subject was previously responsible. According to LICALLA, KARCHIN has also been taking guard duty at the entrance gate to the Soviet Embassy, which Subject also had as one of his duties.

3.  In addition, LIENVOY reported that on 17 August 1965 that "a new school director" had arrived at the Soviet Embassy. OBYEDKOVA had previously been the director of the Soviet school in Mexico, and the fact that she had been replaced indicates that she will not return to Mexico. The identity of the new school director has not been established, although it may be KARCHINA.

4.  The attached Soviet Personality Report (SPR) on Subject represents a summary of Station information on him. It is noted that Subject is listed as suspect RIS, service unknown. his previous designation as suspect KGB was based primarily on his presumed identity with the subject of 201-121531, which has now been established as incorrect.

Attachment:

SPR Photo retained in Bro

Distribution:

√2 - CSR, w/att. (2 copies), H/W

1 - CWH, w/att. (1 copy), H/W

for

Willard C. CURTIS

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA - 27030

DATE: 26 AUGUST 1965

HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-779495

FFN: P-8125


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

ATTACHMENT TO HMMA-27030

DATED 26 August 1965

SPR PREPARED BY: Jonathan L. WEENING

DATE: 26 August 1965

1.  NAME: Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (4).

2.  DPOB: ca. 1927-30 (3). Place unknown.

3.  CITIZENSHIP AND PASSPORT DATA:
    Soviet service passport no. 009260, used in 1965 (3).

4.  ETHNIC ORIGIN: No information.

5.  OTHER NAMES USED: No information

6.  CURRENT POSITION: Unknown

7.  RELATIVES:

    a. Wife: Yelena Lvovna OBYEDKOVA (1). Probably nee DMITRIYEVA (3).

    DOB: ca. 1928-31 (3).

    Soviet service passport no. 009270, used in 1965 (3).
    In Mexico 28 August 1962 - 22 July 1965 (2,5). Served as director
    of the Soviet primary school in Mexico City and also ran the summer
    camp in Cuernavaca.

    b. Son: Vladimir (1,2).

    DCB: ca. 1953-56 (3).

    In Mexico 28 August 1962 - 22 July 1965. Travelled on
    mother's passport, (2,5).

    c. Boris Lvovich DMITRIYEV and Mariya Borisovna DMITRIYEVA.who are
    probably wife's brother and sister-in-law. During Subject's tour
    in Mexico, the DMITRIYEVs were staying in Subject's apartment
    in Moscow, given as Moscow E-143, Metrogorodok, Otkrytoye Shosse 26,
    Building 7, Apartment 69, telephone G3-72-34 (4). In May 1964
    Subject spoke to "Boris" in Moscow about certain purchases for the
    apartment, and Subject's wife also spoke to her mother, who apparently
    lived with "Boris" and his wife (1).

8.  LANGUAGES: Spanish - poor (1).

9.  PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AND PHOTOS:
    Photos of Subject and his wife are attached (7).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

-2-

HMMA-27030

10. PERSONALITY, CHARACTER, HABITS:

Although Subject acted as a guard at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico, he appeared to be fairly well educated and was not subservient to any of the other Soviets, with the exception of Counselor Boris Aleksandrovich KAZANTSEV (201-028975). On one occasion Subject was reported to be helping the daughter of Commercial Counselor Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO with her arithmetic homework. On another, Subject was asked about methods of producing metal wire, a subject on which Subject was well informed as a result of his having once worked for a wire factory (1).

Subject had a tape recorder at home which he likedto listen to. He also occasionally went fishing with other Soviets (1).

Subject told "Boris" /paragraph 7c above/ in Moscow to build a large garage, because he was bringing a big car back with him. He also asked whether "Boris" had bought a refrigerator and TV for the apartment. On another occasion he was negotiating for a can of paint to take back to Moscow with him to repaint "the Moskvich." Subject and his wife were both buying watches just before leaving Mexico. (1). / From the above it appears that Subject was fairly well-off financially, for a guard/.

11. CURRICULUM VITAE:

(date unknown)

Subject reportedly had worked at the *Serp i Molot* wire factory in Leningrad (1).

28 August 1962

Subject, accompanied by his wife and son, arrived in Mexico as employee of the Soviet Embassy. Subject replaced Vyacheslav Aleksandrovich YEGOROV (201-273431, /suspect GRU/. (2) Iu Mexico City Subject and his family lived at Tacambaro 4, reportedly in Apartment 5 in January 1963 and in Apartment 4 in July 1965. (1).

22 July 1965

Subject's wife and son departed Mexico for the USSR (5).

4 August 1965

Subject departed Mexico for the USSR (3). Subject is believed to have been replaced by Ivan Petrovich KARCHIN (no Station traces.)

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION: Suspect RIS.

The Station has no real evidence of Subject's intelligence affiliation; however, because Subject appears better educated than his duties as a guard would demand, because he seems financially better off than other Soviet guards, and because of his apparent association on an equal footing with Soviet officers, he is considered suspect RIS. It is further noted that Subject's predecessor was suspect GRU.

13. INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY: Unknown.

14. NON-INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITY:

In Mexico City Subject primarily handled the main Soviet Embassy telephone (1) and also took guard duty at the gate (3), Subject took messages for other Soviets, notified then of meetings, and contacted them for appointments with each other. He also occasionally drove one of the Embassy cars on errands. He kept a ledger of the telegrams sent out by the Embassy and notified other Soviets when cables came in for them (1).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

KMMA - 27030

On 17 August 1963 Subject stated that he had just returned from a trip with Valentin Vasilyevich BAKULIN (231-261813) (1). /BAKULIN is an identified GRU officer. The Station has no further information on the nature of this trip, nor any reports of other trips taken by Subject./

From 6 to 19 November 1962 Subject was in the hospital (Sanitorio Reforma) in Mexico City. On 11 November he underwent a three-hour operation of an unspecified nature. The other Soviets had to take guard duty with him in the hospital, and it was stressed that one of the Soviet men should be with him after he came out of the operation. (1).

15. CONTACTS:

Subject is not known to have had any contact with non-Soviets during his tour in Mexico, with the exception of an occasional visit to one of the doctors regularly consulted by the Soviets. Subject's closest Soviet contacts appeared to be the following:

a. Valeriy Aleksandrovich ANDRIANOV (201-293945), employee in the Soviet Commercial Office in Mexico from February 1961 to May 1964, suspect RIS. When the ANDRIANOVS left Mexico they were planning to get in touch with Subject's family in Moscow (1).

b. Aleksandr Mikhaylovich DENISOV (201-726491), Second Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico since August 1962, known GRU. Subject appeared not to like DENISOV. It also appeared that DENISOV was responsible for reimbursing Subject for the gas Subject used in KUKHARENKO's (see below) car (1).

c. Aleksey Nikolayevich GANIN (201-757775), known GRU officer who visited Mexico 31 July - 14 August 1964. Subject, along with other Soviets who were known GRU officers, met GANIN on his visit to Mexico (6).

d. Sergey Semenovich KUKHARENKO (201-260831), chief of the Soviet information Bulletin in Mexico from October 1962 to August 1964, suspect KGB. Subject and KUKHARENKO were the best of friends for a time, but then KUKHARENKO began drinking too much and getting into various scrapes. Subject frequently commiserated with KUKHARENKO's wife over her husband's drinking, automobile accidents, money problems. Subject occasionally used KUKHARENKO's car. (1).

e. Oleg Pavlovich MOSKVICHEV (201-285090), employee in the Soviet Commercial Office in Mexico from March 1961 to July 1964, known KGB. Subject gave MOSKVICHEV his home address in Moscow (1)........

f. Vladimir Nikolayevich RADVANSKIY (201-298171), code clerk at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico since September 1964, known KGB. Subject is not known to have associated with RADVANSKIY; however, Subject's wife and RADVANSKAYA worked together in the school and children's camp, and RADVANSKAYA took over the camp after Subject's wife left Mexico. RADVANSKAYA asked Subject's wife to tell her (RADVANSKAYA's) daughter to enter the institute when she saw her in Moscow (1).

g. Vladimir Aleksandrovich ROMANCHENKO (201-727109), Second Secretary at the Soviet Embassy in Mexico since August 1963, no known RIS affiliation. When ROMANCHENKO was in Moscow on loave in May 1964, Subject told "Boris" (believed to be Subject's brother-in-law) to send letters to him through ROMANCHENKO when he came back to Mexico. Subject said that ROMANCHENKO could be reached through (Enu) MURAVYEV at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (1).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

-4-

HMMA - 27030

h. Georgiy Stepanovich VISKO (201-243602), Commercial Counselor in Mexico since July 1962, suspect GRU. Subject's wife and Mrs. VISKO taught together in the school and seemed to be good friends. Subiect also seemed to be friends with Mrs. VISKO, and he reportedly helped the VISKO daughter with her arithmetic homework on at least one occasion. Mrs. VISKO was planning to send some things to Moscow with Subject when he left (1).

16. PAST OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY AGAINST SUBJECT:

None, with the exception of technical surveillance.

17. OPERATIONAL PLANNING DATA:

Not applicable

18. OPERATIONAL STEPS TO BE CARRIED OUT IN NEXT YEAR:

Not applicable.

> [Figure: A photograph with markings. The photograph on the right shows a person with a beard and sunglasses. On the left, there is a stamp that reads "LIMITED 28 May 65". Below the photographs, the text reads "PHOTOS SECRET HMMA-27030"]
> ![photo of a person with a beard and sunglasses]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

-5-

HMMA - 27030

19. SOURCES:

1.  LIENVOY, date as given if applicable..
2.  MEXI-1850, 31 August 1962
3.  HMMA-26824, 10 August 1965, LIFIRE travel report.
4.  HMMA-26177, 28 May 1965, LIENVOY information on Subject.
5.  HMMA-26658, 22 July 1965, LIFIRE travel report.
6.  MEXI-0503, 7 August 1964, LIEMPTY report on GANIN's visit.
7.  LIEMPTY photographs, taken in 1965.
8.  LILYRIC surveillance reports, 1962-65.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

## DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

SOURCE CRYPTCM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9 EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PENTINENT INFORMATION

OBYEOKOV, IVAN DMITRIYEVICH 050-008-010
201-779495 HMMA-27102
SEX M 008 ? 08 SEP 55
CIT ? P2
OCC ?
LEFT MEXICO PCS DURING 4 AUG 1965.

R 6509151383

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-779495

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET (when Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2.
RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

9. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

ORYEDKOV, IVAN OMITRIYEVICH
201-779495 201-305052
SEX M DOB ? HMMA-26853
11 AUG 65
CIT ? P1
OCC ?
TRAVELLIN ON SAME FLIGHT WITH KOSTIKOV WAS
SUBJ. SUBJ ASSIGNED AS GUARD AT THE SOV
EMB IN MEXICO CITY, RETURNING TO THE USSR.


R 6508251179

15. FILE THIS FOPM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-779495

FORM
6-67 867 *** PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET (1-48)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SR Division

INFO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: REDWOOD - Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV (201-779495)

1. LIFIRE reported the departure on 4 August 1965, Sabena flight 556 for Brussels (and Moscow) of Subject. (It is not known whether Subject's travel was PCS or TDY. Subject's wife and son had left Mexico on 7 July 1965).

2. LIFIRE reported that Subject was travelling on Soviet service passport no. 009260; his wife and daughter had travelled on no. 009270. Subject's age was given as 35, that of his wife as 34, and that of his son Vladimir as 9. (Comment: These ages may be as of 1962, when Subject originally entered Mexico.)

3. Travelling on the same flight with Subject were Valeriy Vladimirovich KOSTIKOV (201-305052) and his family. KOSTIKOV is an identified KGB officer who was returning to the USSR.

RIS INPUT NO. 23

for

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:

CSR

CWH

---

CS COPY

| CROSS REFERENCE TO | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | DATE            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | --------------- |
|                    | HMMA - 26824               | 10 August 1965  |
|                    |                            | MGS FILE NUMBER |
|                    |                            | 201-779495      |
|                    |                            | FFN: P-8125     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# DISPATCH

TO

Chief ni Station, Mexico City

INFO.

FROM

Chief, SR via Chief, WH

SUBJECT

REGWD/sperational
Ivan Dmitriyevich OSTROV

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

REFERENCE: IMMA 2017, 25 May 1965

1. Headquarters agrees that Subject is probably not identical with
   Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV (201-121531) as was earlier believed, and has
   accordingly assigned Ivan Dmitriyevich 201-779495. A full Headquarters
   trace under that name turned up no information other than that originating
   from Mexico City Station, which has now been re-classified into the new
   file. We are puzzled by the fact that MEXI-1850, dated 1 September 1962, the
   first piece of correspondence from Mexico City Station on Subject, reported
   him as Ivan Ivanovich.

2. A photo comparison of the two individuals in this case is not
   satisfactory proof that they az in fact two people because of the difference
   in years and exposure in the photographs. The pre-Mexico City traces on
   Ivan Ivanovich reflect only a date and place of birth as identifying data.
   It is hoped that Mexico City Station can obtain soon identifying biographic
   data on Ivan Dmitriyevich in order to firmly resolve the matter.

B.H.G.

BRUCE H. GINTALAS

Distribution:

Orig & 2-COS, Mexico City



207-779995


DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER-

DATE 29 JUL 1965

138/43
CS CO27

CLASSIFICATION

21 July 1965
HQS FILE NUMBER

CROSS REFERENCE TO

SECRET

201-778495

OFFICE

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

EXT.

SR/O/PA
JOHN P. CARLSON
cmg
5523


COORDINAING

OFFICERS NAME

CFFICE SYMBOL
DATE

SR/O/WH

WH//MEX



1-RID

1-SR/O/WH

1-WH/3/MEX


DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SR Division

INFO: Chief WH, Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: REDWOOD / Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV

SECURITY: SECRETE

PROCESSING ACTION: MARKED FOR INDEXING

REFERENCE: XXX NO INDEXING REQD

ORIGIN: CCC A Mexico City, Mexico

1. Douglas J. FEINGLASS has reported that the OBYEDKOV who is in Mexico City is definitely Ivan Dmitriyevich, not Ivan Ivanovich as previously recorded. (Source: LIENVOY tapes.) It is impossible to check the original flight manifest listing OBYEDKOV's arrival in 1962, since this has been destroyed.

2. OBYEDKOV also appear's to be much younger than the Ivan Ivanovich OBYEDKOV (201-121531) who was born 14 July 1912 and with whom Subject was assumed to be identical. No date of birth is available for the OBYEDKOV in Mexico City.

3. Subject's wife is Yelena Lvovna OBYEDKOVA. They have a son Vladimir, born roughly in 1953. LICALLA photographs of Subject and his wife are enclosed. According to LIENVOY, Subject's home address in Moscow is Moscow E-143. Metrogorodok, Otkrytoye Shosse 26, Buliding 7, Apt. 69, telephone G3-72-34. In 1964 the apartment was occupied by Boris Lvovich DMITRIYEV and Mariya Borisovna DMITRIYEVA..

4. Headquarters is requested to retrace Ivan Dmitriyevich OBYEDKOV and assign a new 201 number if Headquarters agrees that he is not identical with the Subject of 201-121531.

for Willard C. Curtis

Attachment: 3 photos

Distribution: 2 SRD w/att 1 WHD, w/o att

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA- 26177

DATE: 28 May 1965

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

Atta To: HMMA-26177. 28 May 1965

TO; Chief, SR Division

From: Chief of Station, Mexico City

> [Figure] A photo of two people with a wall in between them. It is labeled "HUBIRA ONLY"
> ![photo of two people with a wall in between them]

> [Figure] A photo of an individual person.
> ![photo of a person]

CS COPY
Ahahi
1.1.192


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                  | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |                     |                  |               |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ | ------------------- | ---------------- | ------------- |
| 1.  RI FILE NO.                      | 2.                             |                     |                  |               |
| 3. QISPATC on SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                        |                     |                  |               |
| 5. ANALYST                           | 6. DATE PROCESSED              | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM | 8. DATE OF INFO. | 9. EVALUATION |
| 10. DISSEMINATED IN                  | 11. DATE                       |                     |                  |               |
| 12. CROSS REPEARED TO THIS FILE      | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION           |                     |                  |               |
|                                      | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |                     |                  |               |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

OBYEDKOV, I. XD------VICH
201-121531 779495
SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
SUPPORT GROUP. GUARD SUSPECT KGB.
MEMBER KGB REZIDENTURA, MEXICO CITY.

050-008-010
HMMA-26081
14 MAY 65
A01 Pl

R 6505262121

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. --> 2--779-495

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOLUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

6. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. 
PERTINENT INFORMATION

OBYEDKOV, IVAN IVANOVICH
201-121531-779475
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
EMBASSY GUARD. SUSPECT KGB OFFICER.

074-126-060/01
HMMA-25843
16 APR 65
A01 P5

R 6505032159

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-777495


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND ...USS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |               |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------- |
|                                       | 2. RI FILE NO.          |               |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                 |               |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. DATE OF INFO.        | 9. EVALUATION |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. DATE PROCLOSED       |               |
| 10. DISSEMINATED IN                   | 11. DATE                |               |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION    |               |
| 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.        |                         |               |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

*DIMITRIJEVIH*
*IVANOVICH*

OBYEDKOV, IVAN DMITRIYEVICH
201-121531 *779475*
SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?

201-727109
HMMA-25188
22 JAN 65
A01 P2

IN A CONVERSATION W/WIFE, SUBJ IMPLIED
VLADIMIR A. ROMANCHENKO 201-727109 WAS
UNFIT FOR JOB OF NEGOTIATING FOR THE RE-
ROOFING OF SOV EMB CAUSE HE WAS INDECISIVE
AND VACILLATING.

R 6508121590

FILE IN 201- *779495*

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: OBYEDKOV, Ivan Ivanovich - Mexico 1964

Subject's photo was shown to Soviet Defectors RASTVOROV and DERYABIN on 18 August 1964 with negative results.

SR/CI/S

201-7794-95

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRE

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
1. FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE
7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO 9. EVALUATION
5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO AI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Dm. Triyevich

OUYEOKOV, IVAN IVANOVICH-
201-121531 777475 050-008-010
SEX M DOB ? HMMA-24698A01
06 NOV 64
CIT ? P2
OCC ?
EMPL GUARD. SUSPECT KGB OFF.

R 6411241378

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. Qw- 777495

FORM 867
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET
DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                              | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |                     |          |
| ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ | ------------------- | -------- |
| Memo for 201 file on<br>OBYEDKOV, Ivan Ivanovich | RI FILE NO.                    |                     |          |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.            | 4. DATE                        |                     |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYMS                             | 8. DATE OF INFO.               | 9. EVALUATION       |          |
| 5. ANALYST                                       | 6. DATE PROCESSED              |                     |          |
| Ceo. Finney                                      | 21 Sept 63                     | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE                  | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION           |                     |          |
|                                                  | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |                     |          |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Photo of OBYEDKOV was shown to ALDOVO. He did not recognize OBYEDKOV.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

779495

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

1. 
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
15!

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: PRICE CITY

ACTION: WW# (TEMPO ISSUED AT 2230 6 AUG)

INFO: JR7, CI, CI/OPS, CI/ICO, CI/ON, FI VR

SECRET 070034Z

DIRCITE MEXI 0492

7 AUG 544977

REDCOAT

IMMEDIATE ACTION

REF: MEXI 0444 (41779)*

1. ACCORDING 1 AUG LIENVOY SERGEY SEMYONOVICH KUKHARENKO ARRANGED PACKING OF CERTAIN PERSONAL EFFECTS FOR SHIPMENT USSR. (PER CTHER LIENVOY REPORTING AND INFO FROM SUBJ PARA 2 REF DEPRATURE IS FOR HOME LEAVE.) SAME DAY MRS. K TOLD SUSPECT KGB

GUARD IVAN IVANOVICH OBYEDKOV THAT WHEN K TOOK HER HOME THAT AFTERNOON HE PULLED FAST ONE ON HER, "STEPPED ON THE GASS AND DISAPPEARED IN CLOUD OF SMOKE AND DUST. I DON'T KNOW THE PLACE WHERE COES, BUT I KCOW THE (UNINTELLIGIBLE) PERFECTGY."

AT 1900 HOURS SAME EVE MRS. K AGAIN CALLZD OBYEDKOV, TOLDR HIM MRS K RETURNED COMPLETELY DRUNK AND HAD WRECKED HIS CAR.

(KNOWN MRS K PLEADED WITH O ON 12 JULY TO PREVENTNK FROM DRIVING CAR THAT DATE SINCE HE DRUNK AND MRS K FEARED WOULD WRECK CAR.)

2. 3 AUG LIENVOY REPORTING CONNECTED ABOVE UNCLEAR, BUT CONTENT SHORT, MRS K-O CONVERSATION INDICATES POSSIBILITY X H.D CO APPEAR AT A GON OFFICE, AND THAT UNNAMED HIGHER LEVEL

SOVERS OFFICER'S PATIENCE EXHAUSTED WITH K. WOULD ALSO APPEAR

SECRET

201 779495

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET IN44972 PAGE 201...

FROM I AND 3 AUG LIENVOY THAT INCIDENT OF DRUNKENNESS AND MOON ENOWN THROUGHTOUT ENΒ.

3. AS HOS AWARE FROM PREVIOUS MEXI TRAFFIC, KUKHARENKO C OF STATION'S PRIME TARGETS FOR DEVELOPMENT DUE ERRATIC SCANVIOR DRUNKENNESS. CONSISTENTLY UNUSUAL INDEPENDENT CELEANOR, AND HIS EXPRESSIONS DISRESPECT COLLEAGUES AND EVEN AMB.

4. MEXI DEVELOPING ONE AGENT ACCESS AGAINST ((SÉE REF) AND INTENDS INJECT LICOOKY-1 AFTER K'S RETURN.

5. GIVEN PARA 1 AND 2 INFO, APPEARS POSSIBLE THAT K MAY NOT SE PERMITTED RETURN MEXI AFTER HOME LEAVE.

6. ACCORDING 5 AUG LIENVOY, K LEAVING 16 AUG. SARBANOV FAMILY AND FEDOTOV ON SAME FLT.

7. ABOVE PRESENTED FOR HQS INFO, AND CONSIDERATION POSSIBLE APPROACH X AT THIS TIME. MEXI RECOMMENDATION IS GAMBLE THAT X FETURNS AFTER HOME LEAVE, DEVELOP MORE ASSETS AGAINST HEW AND EVENTUALLY MAKE APPROACH IF SUFFICIENT VULNERABILITY INFO OSTAINED.

8. ACVISE.

SECRET

*215 COMMENT- APPROVALED USE LICOOKY-1 AGAINST KUKHARENYO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET

![Signature]

H/W ATTACHMENT
NITA-25520
TO: Chief, SB
From: Chief of Section, Hebron

SECRET

![Photograph]

CS COPY

H/W ATT#1 TO NITA-25520

45932
201-74-6945
14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

END OF MESSAGE

FROM AIN WALLS TO ADM NICK DARRIN 203.

A. IVAN *DOSITRIYEVICH*, LIFE HISTORY AND FOR REAL...

B. ALVAREZ REQUENA, INTERROG AND ANALYSIS

C. CASE IS RELATION TO PGP

D. LINO, RESULTS READING AND....

E. INFO YET IN GESTATED FULL SCALE OF ... TRAINING

END OF MESSAGE

201-777945


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SÉCRET

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RID/201 Section TUBE STATION: D6

FROM: NAME

NOTE: See instructions on reverse side of form. Type of print. Guide for use of 201 system is contained in CSHB 70-1-1. Chapter III. Annex B.

|        |          |       |        |
| ------ | -------- | ----- | ------ |
| DATE   | ACTION   |       |        |
|        | OPEN     | AMEND | CANCEL |
| BRANCH | ROOM NO. | PHONE |        |

CHECK 2-4 FOR 201 REQUEST. 2. EXCLUDE TRUE NAME FROM MACHINE LIST 3. RESTRICTED 4. PERMANENT CHARGE

FOR ION. YES NO YES NO YES NO

5. 201 NO. ION NO. 6. SOURCE DOCUMENT DATE

7. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) 8. SEX 9. PHOTO

M F YES NO

10. NAME VARIATIONS

TYPE (Last) (First) (Middle)

11. DATE OF BIRTH 12. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 13. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH 14. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE 15. CITIZENSHIP

16. ORGANIZATION OR INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION

17. OCCUPATION (Clear text)

18. ACTION DESK CODE 19. SECONDARY DESK CODE

20. CRYPTONYM HAND CARRY IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE

21. COMMENTS

22. SIGNATURE

FORM 11-62 831

23. IDN- 201-

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)