# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Operational/AMLILAC
Amended MOC for Subject 201-332676

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: A. UFGA 18946, 9 December 1964
B. UFGA 17818, 25 September 1964

Transmitted herewith for Headquarters information and files are three copies of an amended Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Subject 201-332676. This amendment is submitted due to a raise in Subject's salary.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

Attachments:
A. 3 cys, MOC H/W
B. 3 cys, IDEN U/S/C

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Addressee w/atts

![stamp] CS COPY

DATE TYPED: 14 Jan 65
DATE DISPATCHED: JAN 18 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-19442

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-332676


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Engagement of IDENTITY A

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Engagement of IDENTITY A 201-332676

1.  Term and Project Charge. The Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TYPIC and is to be charged against FL cost centor. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 January 1965 and it shall continue until termination by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2.  Escurity Approval. The appropriate security approval, to utilize subject as requested, has been obtained. OA requested per UFGA-17555, 3 September 1964.

3.  Citizenship. The Subject is a foreignmtional and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resides at IDENTITY B

4.  Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, Subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $244.67 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5.  Taxes. Subject will/ be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Taxes will/ be deducted from the above stated paid compensation. Subject is ineligible for Social Security. # IDENTITY C. Subject is married and has a total of dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents are/ not residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6.  Quarters and/or Subsistence. The Subject will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence.

7.  Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8.  Other Commitments.

a. In case of capture, 50% salary until released or for two years, whichever is less.

b. In case of death, four months salary to dependents.

c. In case of wounds, medical care.

d. With prior approval of CCS, a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and results which were achieved but will not exceed $100 per single bonus payment.

9. Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the Subject.

JAN 15 1985

SIGNED: Frederick J. Ingham

Field Contracting Officer

REVIEWED: Charles Francis

Contract Approving Officer

REVIEWED: Joseph B. Regan

Special Contracting Officer

S & CRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:
UPGA-19442, 14 JANUARY 1965

IDENTITY A: Juan F. BLANCO Fernandez

IDENTITY B: 6831 SW 6 Street, Miami, Florida

IDENTITY C: 265-74-1626


S/c attach #2
UFGA-19442

SECRET

![illegible text] Feb 13 1982

201-332676


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)