14-00000
104-10218-10083
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RICHARDSON/as
ORIG: HEITSMAN
UNIT: FE/CO/CIDI
LAT : 5743/5645
DATE: 20 MAY 64

TO : MEXICO CITY GUATEMALA CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: FE 8

INFO: WH7. CI, CI/OPS, CI/ICL, 31, 31/INTZ, VR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

12-62
POUTING

21 MAY 64 26 45z

X DESIGECEN
ROUTINE

TO MEXI INFO GUAT CITE DIR 22829

LCHARVEST 22 MAY 1954

REF: MEXI 9468 (IN 83286)*

1. SUBJ DESCRIBED FOR YEARS AS LEFTIST, BUT ANTI-COMMUNIST
   AND STRONGLY ANTI-AMERICAN. HQS WANTS DEVELOP INFO HIS CURRENT
   POLITICAL BELIEFS AND WHY SUBJ WANTED VISIT CHINA. HE OBVIOUSLY
   CONSIDERED MAN OF STATURE/BY CHICOMS, COULD PROBABLY SWING NEW
   INVITATION TO VISIT CHINA. WE WANT EVALUATE ANSWERS PARA 2 AND
   3 QUESTIONS TO DETERMINE HIS ABILITY PROVIDE INTEL, WITH VIEW
   TOWARD RECRUITING HIM FOR BRIEFED MISSION OR RESIDENCE IN CHINA.
   DO LINLUCK-1, LICOOKY-1 FEEL HE APPROACHABLE UNDER ANY GUISE?
   IF HE ASSESSED UNWILLING COOPERATE ODYOKE, SUGGEST FALSE FLAG
   RECRUITMENT.

2. CHICOMS MAY CONSIDER HIM COMMIE; IF SO HE MAY HAVE BEEN
   ASKED CARRY BACK MESSAGES, MONEY, OR PERFORM OTHER SERVICES IN
   MEXI. SUGGEST LINLUCK-1 OR LICOOKY-1 TRY QUERY HIM THESE POINTS.
   ALSO REPORT DATES TRIP, ITINERARY, INSTALLATIONS VISITED, INDOC-
   TRINATION GIVEN, IF ANY, AND LECTURES SUBJECT GAVE.

3. AS OUTLINED PAGE 15, NEW PART IV/A CHINA HANDBOOK, DE-
   SIRE SUBSTANCE SUBJ'S CONVERSATIONS WITH CHINESE LEADERS, DATES

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000

OLIG:
UNIT:
DATE:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

[] INDEX
[] NO INDEX
[] FILE IN CS FILE NO.

-17-02
ROUTING
1
4
2
5
3
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

10 :
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

PAGE TWO

10 :
GUAT INFO CITE DIR

AND CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH HELD. PARTICULAR TOPICS OF INTEREST: 22029
CHINA'S POSITION TOWARD UN ADMISSION AND THE SINO-
SOVIET DISPUTE.

TRADE WITH AND RECOGNITION FROM LATIN AMERICAN
COUNTRIES.

MORAL, FINANCIAL, LOGISTICAL, AND MILITARY SUPPORT
FOR LATIN AMERICAN CP'S AND REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENTS--
PARTICULARLY IN GUATEMALA.

REQUESTS FOR SUPPORT OF CHINA'S INTERNATIONAL POSI-
TION ON VARIOUS ISSUES (INCLUDING NON-ALIGNED AND BANDUNG
CONFERENCES) FROM LATIN AMERICAN PRESS, CP'S, GOVERNMENTS.

STATUS AND PLANS FOR ESTABLISHMENT AND EXPANSION NCNA
AND TRADE OFFICES MEXICO.

END OF MESSAGE

*Requested rqmts for two Mexi Station assets use in eliciting
info from exiled Guatemalan journalist on his recent trip China.

![signature of W Hood]

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WH
RELEASING OFFICER

ADCFE(C) ![signature of Andrew Pore]

C/WH/3 ![signature]

COORDINATING OFFICERS

S-E-C-R-E-T

![signature of William E. Colby]

WILLIAM E. COLBY
C/FE
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN. THE ISSUING OFFIC. IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)