104-10101-10239 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Mary Parrish
7861
CA/PROP/G
19 Dec 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING
1
4
2
5
3
6

19DEC 63 15 202

SEE BELOW

DIRECTOR

DEFO1OCEN

ROUTINE

CA/2, AF 4, EE 4, WE

CITE DIS 0168

PRI ANDE RADA LAGG ABEJ PEAR
MORY EKAR MOGA PRET SKR LEOP THA


16172


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

![Message Header Image]

ROUTINE

INFO

CITE DIR 90168

1. REUTERS, UPI, AP REPORT FROM MOSCOW EIGHTEEN DECEMBER THAT APPROX FIVE HUNDRED AFRICAN STUDENTS GATHERED AT GHANA EMBASSY, FOUGHT THEIR WAY PAST POLICE BARRICADES AND MARCHED TO KREMLIN TO PROTEST ALLEGED KILLING GHANA STUDENT ASARO ADDEO.

STUDENTS CARRIED PLACARDS "STOP KILLING AFRICANS", SKULL AND CROSSBONES LABELLED "RUSSIAN FRIENDSHIP", "FRIENDS TODAY, THE DEVEL TOMORROW" "MOSCOW IS SECOND ALABAMA". STUDENT DELEGATION PRESENTED MEMO TO MINISTRY HIGHER EDUCATION CHARGING "OUR FREEDOM BEING THREATENED HERE BECAUSE STUDENTS ARE BEING BEATEN IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF SOVIET UNION AND ONE WAS KILLED RECENTLY IN KALININ. WE WANT THE POLICE TO TAKE STRONGER ACTION". SOVIET OFFICIALS CLAIM ADDEO DIED OF EXPOSURE WHILE INTOXICATED.

STUDENTS BELIEVE HE KILLED BY RUSSIAN BECAUSE HE WANTED MARRY RUSSIAN GIRL.

2. USING FIRE SERVICE, FBIS SOURCES PLAY STUDENT ACTION ALONG LINES:

INCIDENT

A. MEETING IS EVIDENCE OF RACIST ATTITUDES DESPITE SOVIET PROPAGANDA EFFORT.

![Footer Image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

P.A. COMMUNISM MEANS BROTHERHOOD

FILES

A. DEATH PROBABLY ONLY SPARK SETTING OFF

FANG SHOULDERING STUDENT RESENTMENT OF
POLITICAL INDOCTRINATION, SEGREGATION,
EXPLOITATION FOR PROP PURPOSES

C THE INCIDENT TO RECENT CONGO EXPULSION OF
SOVIET DIPLOMATS AS ANOTHER FACET SOVIET
LONG RANGE PLAN TO DUPE, EVEN TAKEOVER,
NAIVE AFRICAN STATES BY MEANS OF SUBVERSION,
STUDENT INDOCTRINATION AND CONTROL, ECONOMIC
AID
WITH POLITICAL STRINGS

3. SEE BIWEEKLY GUIDANCE SEVEN HUNDRED NINETEEN FOR FURTHER R
   ACTION AND BACKGROUND. WATCH STUDENT GROUPS FOR DEMONSTRATIONS,
   ARTICLES AND PUBLIC STATEMENTS FOR REPLAY. INTERVIEW COMMUNIST
   TRAINED STUDENTS. GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, EDUCATORS FOR REACTION.

4. SEND CLIPS HOS

END OF MESSAGE

![stamp of SKCB and text that reads 'included from automat downgraded and declassified after review']


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

XT
DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI:

INFO:

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

INFO

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 90168

Coordinating

AF/CA Wayne Murphy (in draft)

WE/INT -

EE/OPS/CA -

NE/OP/PA Walter Harris (phone)

WE/TO/B William Newt (phone)

FE/TO/P Joka Istikul (phone)

BR/CA Terry Loit (phone)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)