# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 98-2262774 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

/

SECRET

FRP: ,2,

STAFF

ACTION: EUR/NG (393) INFO: CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGEUR, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC,
EUDORECORD, EUR/COPS, EUR/DCCI, EUR/LGL, EUR/NGUK, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD,
ORMS/EUR, RYBAT, FILE, CIC/EUR (2/W)

98 2262774 ASO PAGE 001 IN 2262774
TOR: 301620Z JUL 98 LOND 19048

SECRET 3016212 JUL 98 STAFF

CITE LONDON 19048

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM EUR/NG INFO CIC/EUR, EUR/NGUK, EUR/LGL, EUR/COPS

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: PROPOSED DECLASSIFICATION OF BSS DOCUMENT FOR RELEASE TO <JFK>BOARD

REF: DIRECTOR 908321 98 2225461

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE ADVISE NEXT STEPS ON REVIEW/RELEASE OF BSS DOCUMENT PER PARA 3 IN LIGHT OF BSS' STRONG OBJECTIONS.

2. REF DOCUMENT DESCRIBING 1963 INTERVIEW BY A BSS OFFICER OF MRS. LILLIAN SLOBODA WAS PASSED TO H1L/5 LIZ HOLEHOUSE MORNING 30 JULY. IN TWO SUBSEQUENT PHONE CONVERSATIONS, WHICH WERE FOLLOWED UP WITH A TELEX, HOLEHOUSE ADVISED THAT BSS HAD REVIEWED THE 1963 DOCUMENT (CSCI-3/778,353) AND THE CASE, AND BSS DOES NOT/NOT CONCUR *WITH THE RELEASE OF A SANITIZED VERSION OF THIS DOCUMENT TO THE<JFK> REVIEW BOARD. TEXT OF BSS TELEX 766 OF 30 JULY OUTLINING BSS' OBJECTION TO RELEASE OF THE DOCUMENT IS AS FOLLOWS:

"THE INFORMATION GIVEN TO THE SECURITY SERVICE BY MRS. SLOBODA, AS RECORDED IN THE INTERVIEW REPORT, WAS GIVEN TO US IN CONFIDENCE AND PASSED TO THE U.S. AUTHORITIES IN CONFIDENCE ALSO. ON THE GROUNDS OF ITS AGE AND THE PERSONAL NATURE OF ITS CONTENT, WE WOULD NOT PUBLICLY RELEASE SUCH A REPORT IN THE UK AND ASK THE U.S. AUTHORITIES TO WITHHOLD IT FROM PUBLIC RELEASE IN THE USA."

3. PLEASE ADVISE FOR STATION AND BSS INFORMATION WHAT HAPPENS NEXT WITH DECLASSIFICATION/RELEASE OF THE DOCUMENT. HOLEHOUSE HAS *ASKED WHETHER, IN FACT, WE CAN DENY RELEASE TO THE<JFK>REVIEW BOARD GIVEN BSS OBJECTIONS. WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE ANY FURTHER EXPLANATION HQS CAN PROVIDE FOR BSS ON THE REVIEW BOARD'S INTEREST IN SOVIET DEFECTORS. BSS IS SOMEWHAT PUZZLED BY THE REQUEST TO RELEASE THIS *PARTICULAR DOCUMENT SINCE THERE IS NO APPARENT CONNECTION TO THE<JFK> *<ASSASSINATION>OTHER THAN THE TIME FRAME.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 98-2262774                                   SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT                                   PAGE: 2

4. FILE: NONE. DECL ON: X1, CL REASON: 1.5(C), CL BY: 0491759
   DRV LIA 1-87.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)