# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO: DEPUTY CHIEF, WH/SA

FROM: CHIEF OF STATION, JMHAVE

SUFYPIC/AMTRUNK/MHAPRON OPERATIONAL
TRANSMITTAL OF COPY OF MEMO REGARDING AMTRUNK-9 INFIL WHICH
ACTION REQUIRED REFERENPASSED TO ACSI 19 JANUARY 1965

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN SUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

FYI

A. WAVE-7247
B. WAVE-7248

1. TRANSMITTED UNDER SEPARATE COVER VIA FLEXOWRITER IS A COPY OF THE WAVE MEMO TO ACSI AS PRESENTED TO ACSI ON 19 JANUARY 1965.

2. THE 'CAS SOURCE' MENTIONED THROUGHOUT THE MEMORANDUM IS AMICE-14. THE 'SUB-SOURCE' IN PARAGRAPHS 11 THROUGH 14 AND THE 'SUB-SOURCE' IN PARAGRAPH 24 ARE THE SAME PERSON, IDEN A OF REFS.

3. LATER DEVELOPMENTS SINCE THE PASSING OF THIS MEMORANDUM ARE THAT BOTH THE WIFE OF AMTRUNK-9 AND AMICE-14 HAVE IDENTIFIED "JORGE" AND "TORRES" AS THE SAME PERSON FROM A PHOTOGRAPH PROVIDED BY ACSI AND, PER PARAGRAPH 27, THAT THE WIFE OF ANTRUNK-9 /WHO NOW BELIEVES HER HUSBAND TO HAVE BEEN TAKEN PRISONER/ IS EXERTING PRESSURE UPON ACSI FOR ODYOKE TO NEGOTIATE THROUGH DIPLOMATIC CHANNELS FOR HER HUSBAND'S RELEASE. REPORTEDLY, THE WIFE OF AMTRUNK-9 HAS ASKED FOR AND RECEIVED PERMISSION FROM 'TORRES' TO WRITE A LETTER TO THE WIFE OF GPIDEAL PLEADING HER HUSBAND'S CASE.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

ATTACHMENT - USC
WAVE MEMO TO ACSI DATED 19 JAN 65

AMLASH-1 file

DISTRIBUTION BY TAPE
3-DC/WH/SA W/ATT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-19569

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 22 JANUARY 1965
HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-728707

> CASE:
> Excluded from automatic
> downgrading and
> declassification

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR - ACSI, MIAMI

SUBJECT - INFILTRATION INTO CUBA BY MODESTO ORLANDO CRCZCO BASULTO

1. AT ABOUT 1800 HOURS, 29 DECEMBER 1964, MRS. JOSEFINA LOPEZ ANGULO DE OROZCC, WIFE OF MODESTO CRLANDO ORCZCO BASULTO AKA "BEBO", TELEPHONED A CAS SOURCE WHO HAS BEEN FRIENDLY WITH GRCZCC FOR SEVERAL YEARS. MRS. OROZCO ASKED THE CAS SCURCE TO VISIT HER AT HER HOME THAT EVENING.

2. THE CAS SOURCE ARRIVED LATER THAT EVENING. MRS. OROZCO ASKED THE CAS SOURCE IF HE KNEW THAT HER HUSBAND HAD LEFT FOR CUBA. CAS SOURCE REPLIED THAT HE HAD HEARD RUMORS TO THAT EFFECT. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE WAS VERY WORRIED ABOUT HER HUSBAND BECAUSE SHE HAD NOT HEARD A WORD FROM OR ABOUT HIM SINCE HE LEFT WITH 2 OTHERS 8 DAYS PREVICUSLY, ON 21 DECEMBER 1964. OROZCO HAD PLANNED TO RETURN IN A WEEK. MRS. OROZCO ASKED CAS SOURCE TO TRY TO FIND OUT SOMETHING ABOUT CROZCO THROUGH HIS FRIENDS IN CUBA CAS SOURCE SAID THAT HE WOULD TRY SINCE HER HUSBAND HAD BEEN A GOOD FRIEND OF HIS BUT THAT HE WOULD NEED SOME CETAILS OF THE PROPOSED TRIP TO HELP HIM IN HIS INVESTIGATIONS.

3. MRS. OROZCO SAIO THAT HER HUSBAND HAD GONE INTO CUBA ΤΟ RESCUE JOSE VASQUEZ NEREY AND 3 OTHERS WHO WERE HIDING IN THE HOME OF AWOMAN NAMED GLORIA CABRERA WHO LIVED AT NO.72 27TH STREET BETWEEN **N' AND '0", ΑΡΓ. 3, VEDADO, HAVANA. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT THE ADDRESS HAD BEEN GIVEN TO OROZCO BY HORTENSIA ORIZONDO MENESES /ACSI SCURCE NO. 180/. MRS. OROZCO ADDED THAT BOTH SHE AND HER HUSBAND HAD KNOWN GLORIA CABRERA IN THE SIERRA MAESTRAS AND THAT SHE/MRS. CROZCO/ DID NOT TRUST HER BECAUSE SHE HAD BEEN COMPLETELY WITH THE REGIME UNTIL ONLY A FEW MONTHS AGO".

4. MRS. OROZCO TOLD CAS SOURCE THAT HER HUSBAND HAD BEEN VISITED ABOUT FIVE TIMES BETWEEN MID-NOVEMBER AND MID-DECEMBER 1964 BY A PUERTO RICAN WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS JORGE. IT WAS "JORGE, ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO, WHO TOLD HER HUSBAND OF THE PLIGHT OF JOSE VASQUEZ NEREY. DURING THE SECOND OR THIRD MEETING, "JORGE MENTIONED THE NAME OF HORTENSIA", LATER IDENTIFIED AS HORTENSIA ORIZONDO MENESES, AND, AGAIN ACCORDING TO MRS. CROZCC, ORIZONDO WAS FROM THAT TIME OROZCO'S CONTACT IN THE VASQUEZ AFFAIR. ALTHOUGH JORGE DID NOT AT ANY TIME REPRESENT HIMSELF AS CIA, MRS. OROZCO ASSUMED THAT HE WAS SENT BY CIA. THIS ASSUMPTION SHE PASSED ON TO CAS SOURCE. JORGE NEVER IDENTIFIED THE ORGANIZA- TION WHICH HE REPRESENTED BUT HE DID TELL MRS. CROZCO THAT HE WAS NOT FROM CIA. JORGE DID, HOWEVER, CONTINUE TO REPRESENT HIMSELF AS HAVING OFFICIAL BACKING FROM THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT. "JORGE WAS DESCRIBED AS 5' 6" TO 8", MEDIUM BUILD, DARK BROWN SLICKED-BACK HAIR WITH NO PART, DARK BROWN EYES, CLIVE COMPLEXION, ABOUT 33 YEARS OLD, AND SPEAKING NEAR-PERFECT SPANISH.

5. THE CAS SOURCE REMARKED THAT A TRIP OF THIS NATURE REQUIRED A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF MONEY AND SUPPLIES. WHO HAD HELPED OROZCO TO GET THE BOAT, TO EQUIP IT AND FUEL IT AND TO PROVIDE THE OTHER NECESSITIES? MRS. OROZCO REPLIED THAT THE FINDING, EQUIPPING AND READYING OF THE BOAT HAD BEEN HER HUSBAND'S RESPONSIBILITY BUT THAT CRIZONDO HAD PROVIDED THE FUNDS. IAS WILL BE SEEN BELOW, THIS ALLEGATION THAT ORIZONDO WAS THE PAYMASTER FOR OROZCO'S TRIP IS SUPPORTED BY A SIMILAR STATEMENT BY ANOTHER CAS SUB-SOURCE TO WHOM OROZCO TALKED QUITE FREELY ABOUT A WEEK BEFORE HIS DEPARTURE/.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

ATT TO UFGA-19569 PG 2

6. CAS SOURCE ASKED MRS. OROZCO INTO WHICH AREA DIO HER
HUSBAND INTEND TO INFILTRATE CUBA. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT HE
PLANNED TO GO INTO NORTHEASTERN MATANZAS PROVINCE TO THE MARTI AREA
WHERE HE HAD SEVERAL CONTACTS WHO HAD HELPED HIM IN THE PAST. CAS
SOURCE PRESSED FOR OTHER DETAILS OF THE ACTUAL SITE OF INFILTRATION
BUT MRS. CROZCO PROTESTED IGNORANCE OF FURTHER DETAILS. SHE SAID
THAT HER HUSBAND HAD WITH P١٧٣٠٠٤XPERT NAMED MATEO HO
KNEW THE AREA COMPLETELY. /''MATEO" WAS LATER IDENTIFIED AS
ALBERTO GONZALEZ ORTIZ. CAS FILES INDICATE THAT GONZALEZ HAS MADE
A NUMBER OF CLANDESTINE TRIPS TO CUBA WHILE CONTRACTING TO BRING
OUT RELATIVES OF EXILES FOR MONEY. HIS REPUTATICH IS UNSAVORY
BASED UPON THE GENERALLY-ACCEPTED FACT THAT HE HAS ACCEPTED LARGE
SUMS OF MONEY TO BRING FAMILIES CUT AND HAS FREQUENTLY FAILED TO
MAKE GOOD. HIS PROMISES. IT IS ALSO A COMMONLY-ACCEPTED FACT AMONG
THE EXILE FISHERMEN THAT GONZALEZ WILL NEVER UNDERTAKE SUCH A TRIP
UNLESS HE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY PAID OR IS COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT THE
MONEY WILL BE MADE AVAILABLE UPON HIS RETURN/.

7. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW THE NAME OF HER
HUSBAND'S INTENDED PRIMARY CONTACT IN THE MARTI AREA. SHE MENTIONED
ONE *CANDIDO* DIAZ, A FISHERMAN, AND ONE PEDRO BARBI, THE OWNER
OF THE BATE MARINO RESTAURANT IN CARDENAS. OROZCO HAD TOLD HIS WIFE
THAT HE INTENDED TO SEE THESE PERSONS TO HELP HIM WITH TRANSPORTATION
TO HAVANA AND TO PROVIDE HIM WITH FUNDS /MRS. OROZCO CONTENDS--AND
IT IS A SORE POINT WITH HER--THAT OROZCO LEFT WITH ONLY A FEW
COUNTERFEIT PESOS/. ONCE IN HAVANA, CROZCO PLANNED TO GO FIRST TO
THE HOME OF MARIO GIL GONZALEZ /HIS PATRONYMIC HAS ALSO BEEN SPELLED
''HILL''/. FROM THERE, OROZCO PLANNED TO GO DIRECTLY TO THE
ADDRESS OF THE CABRERA WOMAN WHICH HE HAD RECEIVED FROM ORIZONDO,
PICK UP VASQUEZ AND GROUP AND LEAVE.

8. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT HER HUSBAND TOLD HER THAT HE WOULD
SEND A TELEGRAM TO HER AS SOON AS HE REACHED HAVANA SAFELY. SHORTLY
BEFORE HIS DEPARTURE, HE WOULD SEND ANOTHER CABLE IN PRE-ARRANGED
CODE TO INDICATE THAT HE WAS ON HIS WAY GUT. MRS. CROZCO WAS THEN
TO CALL ORIZONDO WHO WAS TO ARRANGE AN AIR SEARCH FOR THE BOAT.
/AS LATER TOLD BY MRS. ORCZCO, INCLUSION OF THE WORD 'BIEN / GOOD/
IN A CABLE INDICATED THAT OROZCO WAS SAFE IN HAVANA. INCLUSION OF
THE WORD "SAL10" /LEFT OR DEPARTED/ WOULD INDICATE THAT HE WAS
ON HIS WAY OUT.

9. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT ORIZONDO HAD CALLED HAVANA ON 30
DECEMBER 1964, PRESUMABLY TO THE CABRERA WOMAN'S HOME. VASQUEZ
HIMSELF HAD ANSWERED THE PHONE AND STATED THAT THERE WAS NO NEWS
FROM OROZCO OR FROM ANYONE ELSE. VASQUEZ AND THE GROUP WERE STILL
WAITING FOR CONTACT.

10. CAS SOURCE ASKED MRS. OROZCO HOW MUCH MONEY OROZCO HAD
LEFT BEHIND FOR HER SUPPORT. SHE REPLIED THAT HER HUSBAND HAD LEFT
$50.00 BUT THAT HE HAD TOLD HER TO RE-CONTACT ORIZONDO IF SHE
SHOULD NEED MORE.

11. A CAS SUB-SOURCE REPORTED THAT OROZCO HAD COME TO HIS
HOME ON 12 DECEMBER AND HAD TOLD HIM THAT HE PLANNED TO GO TO CUBA
TO RESCUE VASQUEZ. OROZCO SHOWED SUB-SOURCE A RECEIPT FOR 41.00
FOR REPAIR TO AN OUTBOARD MOTOR. OROZCO SAID THAT THE BOAT WAS NOT
FAST BUT QUITE SEAWORTHY. OROZCO SAID THAT ORIZONDO HAD PAID THE
BILL FOR THE MOTOR REPAIRS AND HAD PROVIDED THE OTHER NECESSARY
FUNDS. OROZCO NAMED ORIZONDO AS A PERSON WHOM HE /CROZCO/ HAD
BROUGHT OUT OF CUBA AND WHO HAD WORKED IN CUBA UNDER ONE DAVID
CABEZAS. AS REPORTED BY SUB-SOURCE, OROZCO TOLD HIM THAT ORIZONDO
HAD TOLD HIM OF VASQUEZ' DANGER AND ASKED FOR HIS HELP IN RESCUING
HIM. CROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT HE HAD REPLIED THAT HE WOULD DO
ANYTHING TO HELP HIS FRIEND VASQUEZ BUT THAT HE WANTED TO KNOW WHO
THE PEOPLE WERE BEHIND HER / ORIZONDO/. ORIZONDO HAD REPLIED THAT
SHE WAS GOING TO PUT HIM IN TOUCH WITH A PERSON WHC SPOKE FLUENT
SPANISH BUT WAS NOT. CUBAN. THIS WAS ''JORGE AND FROM WHAT SUB-
SOURCE IS ABLE TO RECONSTRUCT OROZCO MET JORGE JORGE IN A BAR ON
FLAGLER STREET ON THURSDAY MORNING, 10 DECEMBER 1964. /HERE THE
ACCOUNT OF THIS SUB-SOURCE IS SCHEWHAT AT VARIANCE WITH WHAT

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

ATT TO UFGA-19569 PG 3

MRS. OROZCO TOLD CAS SCURCE/.

12. OROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT GRIZONDO HAD SET UP THE MEETING FOR WESNESDAY MORNING, 9 DECEMBER, WITH THE TWO PERSONS WHC WOULD ACCOMPANY HIM ON THE TRIP. CROZCO MET THEM ON FLAGLER STREET AT A SPECIFIC CORNER WHICH OROZCO DID NOT MENTION TO SUB-SCURCE.

13. OROZCO SAID THAT HE HAD ASKED FOR A RECEIVED $400.00 FOR EACH MEMBER OF THE CREW / IT IS UNCLEAR WHETHER CROZCO ACTUALLY RECEIVED THIS SUM OF MONEY FOR HIMSELF AS WELL/ PLUS A PROMISE TO TAKE CARE OF ALL OF THEIR FAMILIES IF THEY DID NOT RETURN.

14. OROZCO CALLED SUB-SOURCE BY TELEPHONE LATE ON THE VENING OF 14 DECEMBER TO TELL HIM THAT HE HAS "ON HIS WAY TO THE KEYS". OROZCO TOLD SUB-SOURCE THAT THE ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE MONEY AND THE ASSURANCES TO TAKE CARE OF THE FAMILIES HAD BEEN AGREED UPON.

15. AT A SECOND MEETING BETWEEN MRS. ORCZCO AND CAS SOURCE ON 8 JANUARY, MRS. OROZCC TOLD CAS SCURCE THAT SHE HAD COME INTO THE POSSESSION OF SOME INFORMATION FROM AN UNNAMED FISHERMAN WHO HAD RECENTLY COME OUT OF CUBA. THIS INFORMATION INDICATED THAT SEVERAL ARRESTS HAD BEEN MADE IN THE SAME AREA IN WHICH HER HUSBAND INTENDED TO INFILTRATE. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT SHE HAD ALSO HEARD A RADIO BROADCAST THE DAY BEFORE, 7 JANUARY, STATING THAT 4 INFILTRATORS HAD BEEN PICKED UP IN THE CARDENAS/MATANZAS AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE. MRS. OROZCO HAD CALLED ORIZONDO AND INSISTED UPON SEEING "JORGE" TO GIVE THIS INFORMATION TO HIM PERSONALLY.

16. "JORGE" AND ORIZONDO ARRIVED AT HER HOME ABOUT 2000 HOURS, 7 JANUARY. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE TOLD "JORGE" THE INFORMATION ABOUT ARRESTS IN THE AREA AND MENTIONED A PERSON NAMED "PEDRO". MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT "JORGE" HAD PRICKED UP HIS EARS AT THE MENTION OF THE NAME "PEDRO". ''JORGE ASKED MRS. OROZCO THE LAST NAME OF "PEDRO". MRS. CROZCO REPLIED THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW. "JORGE ASKED WHAT BUSINESS THIS "PEDRO" WAS IN. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE THOUGHT THAT "PEDRO" OWNED A RESTAURANT IN CARDENAS, MATANZAS PROVINCE. ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCO, "JORGE" THEN IDENTIFIED PEDRO AS PEDRO BARBI/OR BALBI/ FEBLES AND SAID THAT BARBI DID NOT WORK WITH THE AMERICANS OR WITH ANY ORGANIZATION BUT THAT HE HAD HELPED MANY PEOPLE. MRS. GROZCO SAID THAT THIS PIECE OF NEWS WORRIED HER GREATLY BECAUSE HER HUSBAND HAD TOLD HER HE INTENDED TO CONTACT THIS PERSON. ACCORDING TO HRS. OROZCO, ORIZONDO THEN BROKE INTO THE CONVERSATION TO DECLARE THAT "WE" / PRESUMABLY MEANING SHE AND JORGE/ HAD DONE ALL THE PLANNING FOR OROZCO'S TRIP AND THAT CROZCO WAS NOT SUPPOSED TO CONTACT BARBI ACCORDING TO THIS PLAN. MRS. CROZCO REPORTED THAT "JORGE" DID NOT COMMENT ABOUT ORIZONDO'S USE OF THE TERM "WE".

17. THE LICENSE NUMBER OF THE AUTOMOBILE IN WHICH JORGE AND ORIZONDO ARRIVED WAS NOTED AS A NEW YORK PLATE, BU-5523. THE CAR WAS DESCRIBED AS A LARGE FIAT. THIS LICENSE NUMBER WAS TRACED AND IT WAS REPORTED BY THE NEW YORK MOTOR VEHICLE AUTHORITIES THAT IT WAS REGISTERED TO ONE LEWIS BURNS, 75 EAST PARADE AVENUE, BUFFALO, NEW YORK. THE ONLY OTHER INFORMATION AVAILABLE FROM THE MOTOR VEHICLE RECORDS INDICATED THAT BURNS WAS BORN 11-10-98, THAT HE WAS RETIRED AND THAT THE AUTOMOBILE REGISTERED UNDER THIS NUMBER HAD BEEN A 1950 BUICK. MRS. CROZCO SAID SHE THOUGHT THAT THIS WAS THE SAME CAR JORGE HAD USED ON PREVIOUS VISITS.

18. MRS. OROZCO SHOWED CAS SOURCE A NOTE WHICH MRS. OROZCO IDENTIFIED AS HAVING BEEN WRITTEN BY CRIZONDO TO HER HUSBAND /SEE ATTACHMENT A/. THE NOTE WHICH WAS NOT DATED STATED THAT THE ACCOMPANYING $500.00 WAS FOR OROZCO TO USE TO BEGIN PREPARATIONS FOR HIS TRIP. ANOTHER $200.00 WAS FORTHCOMING BUT SHE ADVISED

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

ATT TO UFGA-19569 PG 4

OROZCO NOT TO TELL THIS TO "LOS MUCHACHOS", PRESUMABLY OROZCO'S CREW MEMBERS. THE NOTE MENTIONCO A PERSON ANMED "ALDC" AND ALSO "JORGE". MRS. CROZCO SAID SHE DID NOT THINK ORIZONDO REALIZED THAT SHE /MPS. OROZCO/ HAS STILL IN POSSESSION OF THIS NOTE.

19. MRS. OROZCO REPORTED THAT ORIZONDO HAD RETURNED TO HER HOUSE THE MORNING AFTER HER VISIT WITH "JORGE". MRS. OROZCO SAI0 THAT ORIZONDO HAD BEEN VERY WATCHFUL AND THAT IT SEEMLO TO MRS. OROZCO THAT THE PURPOSE OF ORIZONDO'S TRIP WAS TO ATTEMPT TO WHITE-WASH JURGE OF ANY CONNECTION WITH ORCZCO'S TRIP. /THIS INFORMATION WAS VOLUNTEERED FREELY TO CAS SOURCE AS AN OBSERVATION OF MRS. OROZCO/. URIZONDO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT ''JORGE HAD ONLY COME ALONG WITH HER THE PREVIOUS EVENING BECAUSE HE WAS INTEREST-ED IN WHAT HAD HAPPENED TO OROZCO AND THAT HE "JORGE" HAD HAD NOTHING WHATEVER TO DO WITH OROZCO'S TRIP. MRS. OROZCO REMINDED ORIZONDO THAT IT HAD BEEN JORGE WHO HAD ORIGINALLY CCME TO SEE CROZCO TO TELL HIM ABOUT VASQUEZ'S PLIGHT AND THAT "JORGE" HAD VISITED OROZCO SEVERAL TIMES THEREAFTER. HOW WAS IT POSSIBLE THAT "JORGE" HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH CROZCO'S TRIP, ASKED MRS. OROZCO. CRIZONDO PROTESTED THAT JORGE " WAS ONLY INVOLVED IN TRYING TO GET INFORMATION ABOUT VASQUEZ.

20. MRS. CROZCO REMARKED SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW IF ORIZONDO CONSIDERED HER A COMPLETE FOOL BUT SHE /MRS. OROZCO/ KNEW THAT SUCH A TRIP REQUIRED A CONSIDERABLE AMOUNT OF MONEY, AT LEAST $1000.00, AND THAT SHE WAS CERTAIN THAT ORIZONDO CID NOT HAVE THAT KIND OF MONEY OF HER OWN. CRIZONDO REPORTEDLY REPLIED THAT SHE HAD RAISED THE MONEY FROM FRIENDS. MRS. OROZCO PERSISTED AND STATED THAT SHE WAS COMPLETELY SURE IN HER OWN MIND THAT IT HAD BEEN 'THIS GENTLEMAN JORGE WHO HAD SUPPLIED THE MONEY. ORIZONDO DID NOT ANSWER. /SEE PARA 26 BELOW IN WHICH MRS. OROZCO CLAIMED TO HAVE OVERHEARD A CONVERSATION BETWEEN JORGE AND GROZCO IN WHICH JORGE STATED HE COULD NOT SUPPORT OROZCO'S TRIP DIRECTLY BUT COULD SUPPLY FUNDS/.

21. MRS. OROZCO TOLD ORIZONDO THAT SHE WAS STILL UNCERTAIN OF "JORGE'S CREDENTIALS. MRS. GROZCO TOLD ORIZONDO THAT HER HUSBAND HAD HAD GREAT TRUST IN ORIZONDO AND SHE /MRS. OROZCO/ REALIZED THAT ANYTHING ORIZONDO WAS INVOLVED IN WAS TO HER HUSBAND'S BEST ADVANTAGE BUT AT THE SAME TIME SHE COULD NOT BRING HERSELF TO FEEL THE SAME CONFIDENCE IN JORGE AS SHE FELT IN ORIZONDO. ORIZONDO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT "JORGE WAS NOT CUSAN PUT PUERTO RICAN, AN AMERICAN CITIZEN WHO WORKED FOR THE PENTAGON''. ORIZONDO SAID THAT SHE HERSELF WAS NOT ACTIVELY WORKING FOR THE "PENTAGON" ANY LONGER BUT THAT THERE ARE TIMES WHEN HER FORMER EMPLOYERS NEED HELP AT WHICH TIMES THEY CALL UPON HER /ORIZONDO/. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT HER HUSBAND HAD TOLD HER THAT BOTH ORIZONDO AND JORGE WORKED FOR THE PENTAGON'י.

22. ORIZONDO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT SHE WOULD PROVIDE TO MRS. OROZCO ANY MONEY THAT SHE NEEDED TO SUPPORT THE FAMILY. ON 4 CR 5 JANUARY, CRIZONDO HAD GIVEN MRS. OROZCO $100.00 TO PAY HER RENT /FOR WHICH SUM MRS. OROZCO DID NOT SIGN A RECEIPT/. ORIZONDO ALSO TOLD MRS. OROZCO THAT ''JORGE WOULD BE OUT OF TOWN FOR AN UN-SPECIFIED PERIOD.

23. OROZONDO PAID ARS. OROZCO ANOTHER VISIT ON 11 JANUARY. ACCORDING TO MRS. CROZCO, ORIZONDO NOW CLAIMED THAT NEITHER SHE NOR JORGE HAD HAD ANYTHING TO DO WITH CROZCO'S TRIP, THAT IN FACT THEY HAD BOTH TRIED TO TALK HIM OUT OF MAKING THE TRIP.

24. ANOTHER SUB-SOURCE PAID A SOCIAL VISIT TO MRS. OROZCO ON THE EVENING OF 11 JANUARY. MRS. CROZCO SHOWED THIS SUB-SOURCE THE SAME NOTE WHICH INDICATED THAT ORIZONDO HAD GIVEN ORCZCO $500.00 FOR THE INITIAL PREPARATIONS FOR HIS TRIP. MRS. OROZCO TOLD THIS

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SUB-SOURCE THAT BOTH ORIZONDO AND "JORGE" WORK FOR THE PENTAGON
AND ALSO MENTIONED ORIZONDO'S VISITS ON & AND 11 JANUARY IN WHICH
ORIZONDO ATTEMPTED TO DISCLAIM ANY PART FOR HERSELF OR "JORGE" IN
OROZCO'S TRIP. MRS. OROZCO TOLD THIS SUB-SOURCE THAT SHE WAS GOING
TO PUT PRESSURE UPON THESE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE PENTAGON
/CRIZONDO AND JORGE/, TO LITHER GET HER HUSBAND OUT OF CUBA OR
FAILING THAT TO BUY HIM OUT.

25. "JORGE" PAID AN UNANNOUNCED VISIT TO MRS. OROZCO ON 13
JANUARY. DURING THIS VISIT, HE CONFIDED TO MRS. CROZCO THAT HIS
NAME WAS NOT JCRGE BUT TORRES". "TORRES SAID THAT HIS
ORGANIZATION HAD NOT BEEN INTERESTED IN VASQUEZ BUT IN TWO AGENTS
HE USED THE TERM AGENTES''/ WHO WERE IN HIDING IN THE SAME HOUSE
WITH VASQUEZ. AT WHICH POINT MRS. CROZCO ASKED TORRES IICW HE
HAPPENED TO KNOW ABOUT THIS IF HIS CLAIM WERE TRUE THAT HE HAD
NOTHING TO DO WITH HER HUSBAND'S TRIP. TORRES MADE NO REPLY,
ACCORDING TO MRS. OROZCC.

26. MRS. CROZCO THEN COMMENTED THAT SHE KNEW FROM PERSONAL
EXPERIENCE HOW DIFFICULT IT WAS TO RAISE EVEN A FEW HUNDRED DOLLARS
IN THE EXILE COMMUNITY. SHE SAID THAT SHE KNEW CRIZONDO DID NOT HAVE
THE $1000.00 CR MORE WHICH HAD BEEN SPENT FOR HER HUSBAND'S TRIP.
THIS LED HER TO THE CONCLUSION, MRS. OROZCO SAID, THAT TORRES
AND HIS ORGANIZATION HAD SUPPLIED THE FUNDS. AGAIN THERE WAS NO
REPLY FROM TORRES". /CN 11 JANUARY 1964, MRS. OROZCO TOLO SAME
CAS SCURCE MENTIONED IN INITIAL PARAGRAPHS THAT SHE HAD OVERHEARD A
CONVERSATION BETWEEN HER HUSBAND AND TORRES" A WEEK OR TWO BEFORE
OROZCO'S DEPARTURE IN WHICH TORRES TOLD ORGZCO THAT HE COULD
NOT SUPPORT HIS TRIP "DIRECTLY BUT COULD PROVIDE MONEY WHICH
OROZCO COULD USE TO MAKE HIS OWN PREPARATIONS/.

27. MRS. OROZCO SAID THAT SHE HAD HAD TWO SPECIFIC PROPOSALS
TO BRING UP TO TORRES". ONE, THAT IF WORD WERE RECEIVED FROM HER
HUSBAND THAT HE WAS STILL HIDING OUT, TORRES' ORGANIZATION
SEND A BOAT IN TO HELP HIM EXFILTRATE. THE OTHER WAS THAT IF IT
BECAME CONFIRMED THAT HER HUSBAND WAS A PRISONER, TORRES'
ORGANIZATION NEGOTIATE FOR HIS RELEASE THROUGH DIPLCHATIC CHANNELS.
AS PART OF THIS LAST PROPOSAL, MRS. OROZCO SUGGESTED THAT SHE BE
PROVIDED WITH SUFFICIENT MONEY TO TRAVEL TO MEXICO TO TAKE UP HER
HUSBAND'S CASE PERSONALLY WITH THE PRESIDENT OF MEXICO. TORRES"
SAID THAT HE HAD TO TAKE THE MATTER UP WITH HIS ORGANIZATION.
TORRES RE-EMPHASIZED THAT HE PERSONALLY HAD HAD NOTHING TO DO
WITH HER HUSBAND'S TRIP. HE WAS STILL ATTEMPTING TO USE ALL THE
RESOURCES AT HIS COMMAND TO FIND OUT WHAT HAD HAPPENED TO OROZCO
AND WHILE HE WAS VERY SORRY ABOUT HER HUSBAND'S MISFORTUNE, HE
STATED THAT IT HAD BEEN CROZCO'S OWN DECISION TO GO ON THIS TRIP.

28. UPON LEAVING, MRS. OROZCO TOOK NOTE OF THE LICENSE
NUMBER ON TORRES' BLACK VOLKSWAGEN. SHE ASSUMED BUT COULD NOT
BE CERTAIN THAT IT WAS A FLORIDA LICENSE PLATE, NO.6801304 OR 68D
1344. ACCORDING TO A CAS' INVESTIGATION, THE PREFIX 680"
REPRESENTS A PLATE BLOCKED AT THE TALLAHASSEE LEVEL FOR THE COVERT
USE OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

29. ORIZONDO VISITED MRS. OROZCO LATER THAT SAME EVENING OF
13 JANUARY. SHE SEEMED SURPRISED TO LEARN THAT "JORGE" HAD
VISITED MRS. OROZCO EARLIER THAT DAY. ORIZONDO ATTEMPTED TO CON-
VINCE MRS. OROZCO THAT THE JORGE MENTIONED IN A NOTE SHE HAD LEFT
FOR OROZCO WAS ONE JORGE MAYO /OR MALLO/ CARDOSO, A FRIEND OF
OROZCO'S IN THE REBEL-ARMY-IN-EXILE ORGANIZATION EJERCITO
LIBERTADOR" TO WHICH ANOTHER CLOSE FRIEND OF CROZCO'S, JOSE LOPEZ
LEGON AKA PEPE EL TORO BELONGS. MRS. OROZCO REMARKED TO
ORIZONDO THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW HOW STUPID GRIZONDO CONSIDERED HER TO
BE BUT THAT SHE WAS COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT THE JORGE MENTIONED
IN THE NOTE WAS THE SAME JORGE WHO HAD VISITED HER AND HER
HUSBAND. MRS. OROZCO ALSO TOLD ORIZONDO THAT JORGE HAD TOLD
HER THAT HIS NAME WAS TORRES". ORIZONDO CONFIRMED THAT THIS
HAS HIS NAME.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

30. IN ATTEMPTING TO RE-CONSTRUCT HOW MUCH MONEY WAS SPENT TO PREPARE THE BOAT AND EQUIPMENT FOR GROZCO'S TRIP, IT APPEARS LIKELY THAT GROZCO WAS EXAGGERATING WHEN HE SAID THAT HE HAD ASKED FOR AND RECEIVED 400.00 FOR EACH MEMBER OF THE CREW. MRS. OROZCO HAS STATED THAT OROZCO HAD GIVEN THEM EACH $200.00 AND SHE THOUGHT BUT WAS NOT COMPLETELY CERTAIN THAT HE HAD LATER GIVEN EACH OF THEM AN ADDITIONAL UNSPECIFIED SUM. STARTING WITH THE FIGURE OF $700.00 WHICH IS MENTIONED IN THE ATTACHED NOTE FRCM CRIZONDO, IT APPEARS SAFE TO SAY THAT MOST IF NOT ALL OF THAT SUM WOULD HAVE BEEN PAID OUT FOR FUEL / AT LEAST 50 GALLONS SINCE IT HAD BEEN A 50-GALLON TANK WHICH HAD EXPLODED AND HAD TO BE REPLACED/, FOOD FOR ONE WEEK, THE ITEMS /KNIVES, PONCHOS, CANTEENS, FATIGUE UNIFORMS, AMMUNITION, ETC./ WHICH MRS. OROZCO CLAIMS OROZCO BOUGHT IN AN ARMY/NAVY STORE PLUS OTHER MISCELLANEOUS BOAT ITEMS. ADD TO THIS $700.00, THE $200.00 APIECE FOR THE TWO FISHERMEN /WHICH COULD HAVE BEEN MORE/, THE $41.00 FCR THE REPAIR OF THE BOAT ENGINE, THE ESTIMATED $100,00 TO PEPLACE THE SO GALLON FUEL TANK, THE $100.00 GIVEN TO MRS. OROZCO BY ORIZONDO, AND THE TOTAL /A CONSERVATIVE ONE AT THAT/ AMOUNTS TO APPROXIMATELY 31341.00. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT SHORTLY BEFORE HER HUSBAND'S DEPARTURE, ONLY $125.00 REMAINED OF THE INITIAL SUM. THE GROUP LEFT FOR THE MARATHON AREA A DAY BEFORE THEIR ACTUAL DEPARTURE AND HAD TO RETURN TO MIAMI BECAUSE THEY HAD FORGOTTEN THE KEYS TO THE BOAT. MRS. CROZCO SAID THAT THE $50.00 SHE RECEIVED FROM HER HUSBAND WAS TAKEN FROM THE REMAINING $125.00 AND SHE ASSUMES THAT THE BALANCE OF $75.CO WAS SPENT FOR MOTEL ROOMS IN THE KEYS AND FOR OTHER LAST-MINUTE PURCHASES. THE ONLY ITEMS FURNISHED TO OROZCO, ACCORDING TO HIS WIFE, WERE AN M-1 RIFLE AND AN M-1 CARBINE WHICH ORIZONDO HAD GIVEN HIM /MRS. CROZCO THOUGHT THAT THEY HAD HAD TO BUY THE AMMUNITION FOR THESE WEAPONS/, AND A PISTOL OF UNIDENTIFIED MAKE BY LAUREANO BATISTA FALLA OF THE MDC /CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC MOVEMENT/ WHO ALSO GAVE OROZCO A MEANS OF ENTREE TO THE FRENCH AMBASSADOR IN CUBA IF HE SHOULD RUN INTO UNFORESEEN DIFFICULTIES. CROZCO ALSO BOUGHT OR RECEIVED FROM SOME UNNAMED SOURCE AN UNKNOWN AMOUNT OF COUNTERFEIT PESOS.

31. AS ATTACHMENT B TO THIS MEMORANDUM, A COPY OF ANOTHER NOTE FROM ORIZONDO TO OROZCO RECOMMENDING AN INDIVIDUAL WHO COULD PROVIDE A BOAT FOR HIS INFILTRATION IS APPENDED FOR YOUR REFERENCE. THIS INDIVIDUAL IS BELIEVED TO BE ACSI SOURCE NO. 693.

32. CAS WOULD APPRECIATE ACSI COMMENTS ON THE ABOVE PARAGRAPHS, PARTICULARLY AS THESE CONTAIN CERTAIN ALLEGATIONS AGAINST ''JORGE'' AND ORIZONDO. SINCE IT IS NOW APPARENT THAT "JORGE" AND TORRES" ARE ONE AND THE SAME, IT IS BELIEVED THAT FURTHER INVESTIGATION INTO THE IDENTITY OF THIS INDIVIDUAL IS UNNECESSARY.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

ATT A TO UFGA-19569 PG 6

BEBO -

I AM LEAVING YOU $500 SO THAT YOU CAN GO TO SEE ALDO EARLY AND BEGIN THE PREPARATIONS. TONIGHT I WILL HAVE $200 MORE AND I WILL TRY TO OBTAIN THE REST. FIND OUT IF THEY OBTAINED SOME MONEY, I DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING ABOUT THIS BUT IT WOULD BE CONVENIENT ANYWAY. JORGE WAS HERE TONIGHT. YOU CAN COME TOMORROW NIGHT TO ARRANGE ALL THE DETAILS.

TAKE CARE OF THE TANK AS YOU THINK IS BEST. SINCE YOU ALREADY PAID FOR IT, YOU CAN PICK IT UP AND TELL THE BOYS THAT DUE TO THE BAD WEATHER IT IS BEST TO WAIT. IN ORDER TO AVOID HAVING THE "RUMOR" SPREAD DOWN FLAGLER STREET, I DON'T THINK IT IS CONVENIENT TO SAY ANYTHING ON THIS OTHER MATTER TO THE BOYS UNTIL LATER ON. THINK ABOUT IT AND SEE WHAT IS BEST ON THIS MATTER.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CONTINUATION OF

SECRET

ATT B TO UFGA-19569 PG 7

BEBO -

I CAME TO SEE YOU BECAUSE I HAD TO SPEAK TO YOU. I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH PROGRESS YOU HAD IN THE NEGOTIATIONS, BUT I WANTED TO TELL YOU THAT I HEARD OF A MAN, HUMBERTO VERGARA, CALLED VERGARITA. HE WAS RECOMMENDED TO HE AS A VERY SERICUS PERSON, AND IT IS SAID THAT HE HAS A BOAT READY TO SAIL. MAYBE YOU KNOW HIM. AS I CANNOT SEE YOU OR DO ANYTHING DURING THE DAY, I MADE THE FOLLOWING ARRANGEMENTS TO SAVE TIME. I TOLD HIM TO GO TO THE FLAGLER BRIDGE, TOWARDS DOWNTOWN AND TO STOP ON THE LEFT SIDE /NATURALLY GOING TOWARDS DOWNTOWN/ AT 1200 NOON. YOU CAN THEN APPROACH HIM AND ASK HIM IF HE IS VERGARITA, AND YOU IDENTIFY YOURSELF AS MARQUIES. HE IS A YOUNG MAN, HAS ONE TOOTH MISSING. IF YOU THINK HE IS GOOD, SPEAK TO HIM, FIND OUT WHAT HE HAS AND HOW MUCH HE ASKS FOR THE TRIP.

IN ANY EVENT, WHEN YOU GET HOME AND YOU READ THIS NOTE, CALL ME AND LET ME KNOW IF YOU ARE GOING TO SEE HIM. ALSO LET ME KNOW WHETHER YOU HAVE ARRANGED SOMETHING ELSE.

---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)