# DISPATCH

To: Chief, Task Force W

Classification: S-E-C-R-E-T

From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Subject: Operational/GYROSE/KUCAGE/AMHINT. Debriefing of PBRUMEN Legal Travelers for PW Aspects

Action: FYI and files

Ref : WAVE 3748

1. On 15 May 1962, at about 1730 hours local, JMWAVE conducted a PW debriefing of the following legal travelers:

a. Raquel LA VILLA Gonzalez, PDOB: 10 Jan 1940, Havana. Avenue 19 No. 3611 Marianao, Havana, Employed as clerk in Ministerio Comercio Exterior, Department of "Empresas y Alimentos", Foreign Exchange Section. Subject has been militant in the DRE since late 1900, working as a messenger and confidant for contacts in their legal apparat (not the clandestine net). Subject arrived in Miami on PAA Flight 422 on 15 May 1962.

b. Cecilia LA VILLA Gonzalez, PDOB: 18 June 1943, Havana. Avenue 19 No. 3614 Marianao, Havana. Unemployed. Student. Subject is sister of a. above and has assisted her in a similar capacity.

c. Miriam BARO Esteva, PDOB: 26 Oct 1937, Palma Soriano, Oriente Province, Calle 27 No. 906, Vedado, Havana. In Miami;

Distribution:
3 - C/TFW

A: Miami, FLA C.T. CUBA

RE: PW debriefing of Subjects 1962

Date Typed: 30 May 1962

Date Dispatched: JUN 11 1962

Dispatch Symbol and Number: UFGA-4211

Headquarters File Number: 19-120-19/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF
| DISPATCH | SE-C-R-E-T | UFGA-4211 |
| -------- | ---------- | --------- |
220 NE 26th Terrace, Miami. Subject was employed as receptionest_in the office of her brother Carlos BARO 06 a dentist in the L & 23rd Bldg Vedado. Subject arrived in Miami on PAA Flight 422 on S Naj 1962.

2. Subjects a and b are sisters and were questioned together. On the topic of reception of radio programs in Cuba, both were agreed that the best reception was the "Voz de las Americas" which came in strong and clear with rarely any interference jamming. Program content was described as generally good, gave a morale boost to the audience and was becoming popular.

3. In commenting on Radio Las Americas, they pointed out that they had not heard it or attempted to tune in because they felf the quality was much the same as its predecessor, "Radio Swan" which lost its prestige prior to and during the April 1961 invasion attempt. Both declared this was a general opinion among their acquaintances.

4. Subjects commented very favorably on programs heard over station XEW, Mexico and WRUL, New York, describing reception and content as good and with large audiences in Cuba.

5. In referring to other programs, subjects reported that on 1 May, relatives in the Matanzas area telephoned them in Havana to tell them that the "students" (DRE) were on again (TV intrusion). Also, later in the day, friends in the Vedado area called to tell them to tune into Channel 2, that there was a program there (about 2115 hours local). Unfortunately, they had already sold their TV set since they were leaving soon. Both agreed that the system of announcing the TV intrusion broadcasts over CONTE Aguero's program on WRUL a few minutes prior to the intrusion was the key to large audiences. Almost all GOC oppositionists upon hearing this announcement, start telephoning their friends to tune into the TV channel announced.

6. Concerning the DRE internal organization, subjects reported that they had not been active recently and not witting to clandestine operations. They were aware, however, that the DRE internal net was waiting for the infiltration of AMHINT-53 or AMHINT-2 to brief them on the situation in exile and what support would be forthcoming. They reiterated the reports on two bombs set off in the university area by the DRE and burning of cane and henequen fields in Matanzas and Las Villas.

7. When queried on disturbances in Las Villas and/or Katanzas on or about 3 May, they replied that they heard the persistent rumor that a unit (company or regiment unknown) of militia had bolted and gone up into the Escambray Mountains. No further details were known.

8. When questioned on written propaganda such as flysheets or clandestine newsheets, both declared that the last propaganda seen was the clandestine issue on "Trinchera" (DRE organ), that no other propaganda sheets had been seen since before the April invasion.

9. When asked their impression on anti-CASTRO propaganda in general they felt that it was too negative: that while the exiles and opposition groups were busy tearing down the image of CASTRO, he was before the people with some proposal that was based either on truth, had a ring of truth in it, or at least appealed to the masses. That some of their contacts with young girls who served as "brigadistas" (rural tutors in the campaign for literacy) turned up interesting remarks. These girls claimed that many of the country folk would throw thoir hands in dismay when Communism was mentioned to them, and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH S-E-C-R-E-T UFGA-4211

10. Subjects also felt that propaganda should be directed more toward that sector of Cubans that are not fanatic Fidelistas or communists, and have not commited, themselves to the opposition movement for such reasons as indolence, lack of courage, or economic docibility: Raquel remarked that our propaganda seemed to be divided into two broad categories, one directed at or attacking the hard-core Fidelistas and the other for opposition movement consumption.

11. Subject c above was debriefed for her report on reception of a FALCON broadcast in Havana on 1 May 1962. She stated that she was called by a friend at about 2100 hours on 1 May and told that the DRE Trinchera program was being broadcast over Channel 2 at that moment. Miriam turned on her TV and does not recall how high she had to turn up the volume, but to her recollection, not higher than normal. She heard very clearly, the monologue rebuttal of the CASTRO speech earlier that afternoon. She immediately called two of her friends and subsequently received calls from them and others on reception of the program. Her account of parts of the program and the times stated agree with WAVE' file copies of the program script.

END OF DISPATCH


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)