# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MARVIN FRANCIS:ack
WH/C/PI/TC
R. 1271
29 MARCH 1993

ROME BONN INFO: PARIS, GERMANY, FRANKFURT, BERN, GENEVA

A: DIRECTOR

ROME BONN INFO PARI GMNY FRAN BERN CITE DIR
GNVA
TYPIC MILAPRON AMWHIP AMWEST

REFS: A. ROME 9425 (IN 80558) (NOT SENT BONN)
B. FRAN 2758 (IN 83177) (NOT SENT BONN)
C. ROME 9478 (IN 85022) (NOT SENT BONN)

1. SUBJECT REF A PARA 3 TRACE REQUEST IS AMWEST/1 WHO

APPROACHED BY KUBARK APR 65 FOR RECRUITMENT. A/1 AGREED COOPERATE BUT FOLLOWING AUG 65 TRIP PARIS REVERSED HIS DECISION AND REFUSED RECRUITMENT. BONN C/O MANGANELLO (M) HOWEVER HAS MAINTAINED CONTACT WITH AMWEST/1'S WIFE, AMWEST/2 WHO HAS CONTINUED BE COOPERATIVE. M HAS BEEN REQUESTED OBTAIN CURRENT ASSESSMENT AMWEST/1 FROM ANWEST/2, AND IF ASSESSMENT FAVORABLE TO PROCEED WITH RECRUITMENT OR DEFECTION OF AMWEST/1 ALONG PREVIOUSLY ESTABLISHED GUIDELINES.

2. FOR ROME, FRAN, GNVA: DURING BRIEF 23 MAR PHONE CONTACT WITH AMWEST/2, M CONFIRMED THAT AMWEST/1 IS UPSET DUE RECENT ARRESTS AND PURGES. AMWEST/2 STATED THAT AMWEST/1 TO MEET ANTONIO CARRILLO IN GENEVA SOON FOR TALKS. AMWEST/1 CONCERNED ABOUT POSSIBLE REASSIGNMENT SINCE HE NOT PARTICULAR FAVORITE OF CARRILLO AND WAS FRIEND OF AMLASH/1.

3. FOR BONN, ATTN MANGANELLO: AMWHIP-2 (IDEN BONN ONLY)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

☐ DESTROY ☐ RETURN TO BRANCH ☐ FILE
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

☐ INDEX
SECRET
ROUTING
1
5
☐ NO INDEX
2
6
☐ FILE IN CS FILE NO.
3
7
4
8

TO:

PAGE TWO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
INFO: VR, FILE ☐ RID COPY

TO
INFO
CITE DIR 92482

IS ROME ASSET. HIS WIFE OF CURRENT OPS INTEREST DUE HER PROPOSED
SUMMER TRIP TO VISIT SICK MOTHER IN PBRUMEN, WHERE SHE MAY POSSIBLY
CONTACT HIGH LEVEL PBRUMEN MILITARY FRIEND ON OUR BEHALF. BRIEFLY
REFS SURFACE POSSIBILITY OF DANGER TO AMWHIP/2'S WIFE DURING TRIP
DUE PROBABILITY PBRUMEN AUTHORITIES AND ANTONIO CARRILLO
KNOWLEDGEABLE OF AMWHIP/2'S PAST BUSINESS ASSOCIATION WITH AMLASH/1.
DURING 22 AND 23 MAR PHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMWHIPS AND CARRILLO,
LATTER GUARANTEED AMWHIP/2'S WIFE'S SAFETY WHILE PBRUMEN. HOWEVER
CARRILLO'S CURIOUS REFERRAL OF AMWHIPS TO AMWEST/1 AS CONTACT DURING
HIS (CARRILLO'S) ABSENCE HAS RAISED THE QUESTION OF A POSSIBLE
PROVOCATION ATTEMPT. THIS PARTICULARILY VALID SINCE ALL PARTIES
CONTAMINATED BY PAST AMLASH/1 ASSOCIATION, AND DUE AMWEST/2'S STATEMENTS
RE CURRENT AMWEST/1-CARRILLO RELATIONSHIP.

4. VIEW ABOVE SITUATION, SUGGEST NO CONTACT BETWEEN AMWESTS
   AND AMWHIPS. REQUEST REPORT DETAILS AMWEST/1-CARRILLO MEETING AS SOON
   AS THEY CAN BE OBTAINED FROM AMWEST/2. MEETING OUTCOME SHOULD
   ESTABLISH AMWEST/1'S FUTURE STATUS AND ALSO RESOLVE PROVOCATION QUESTION..

END OF MESSAGE

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
GROUP 1
-Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
decasification

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION
OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS OHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MESSAGE FOR
TOTAL COME!.

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

PAGE THREE

:OM: DIRECTOR

INFO: VR FILE RID COPY

INFO

DESTRO RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RI
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
ROUTING
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8

CITE DIR 92482

WH/C/RR/MHAPRON
C/WII/C/FI

WH/C/CICS

WE/3

WE/4

EE/SA/S

C/WE

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

COPY NO

![photo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPISSI 20

ORIG: MARVIN FRANCIS:ack

UNIT: WH/C/FI/TC INDEX

EXT: R. 1271 NO INDEX

DATE: 29 MARCH 1966 FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO : BONN

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONFI: DESENSITIZED RID COPY C/CI,C/FI-2 C/FI/D-4 C/EES

TO BONN INFO CITE DIR 92483

TYPIC KAPOK MHAPRON AMWEST AMWHIP

REF: DIR 92482

IDEN REF: JUAN VENTURA VALNER, CUBAN EXILE WHO OWNS
JEWELRY SHOP AND RESIDES GENEVA. MAKES INFREQUENT
BUSINESS TRIPS TO ROME.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/C/RR/MHAPRON 8.W.Robert

WH/C/CICS Listad

C/WH/C/FY Willi

EE/G George J. Kunz

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WH

RELEASING OFFICER 31-6

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

![group 1 excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)