# SECRET

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

17 September 1975

SUBJECT: Responses to SSC Request for Additional Information on Project ZRRIFLE

REFERENCE: William G. Miller Letter to Mr. Walt Elder, 3 September 1975

Response:

1. a. The cryptonym FUCKTUBE is apparently a garble and FUTURE is probably meant instead. This is a cryptonym belonging to LA Division assigned to a U.S. citizen formerly of operational interest to us. His true name should not be divulged because, according to our records, he still resides abroad in the country against which he was targeted as a reporting source. Revelation of his identity and of his past association with us would be dangerous to his security.

   b. The cryptonym KUTUBE referred to FI Staff, now known as the Operations Staff.

   c. The cryptonym DALIVID was assigned to a sensitive foreign operational target personality whose identity should not be revealed for reasons of his personal security.

2. a. LAURICLE was an action indicator for FI/D.

   b. Monroe B. ROZENEY, Ed JOUVENOY, Wanda CRICKARD and James N. RABNEY are all pseudonyms. ROZENEY and JOUVENOY are pseudonyms assigned successively to the same individual, IDENTITY A. This officer is currently actively employed in clandestine operations under official cover. During the period in question he was stationed in western Europe as an operations officer. CRICKARD was the pseudonym of IDENTITY B, who resigned in 1970. During the period from 1960 to early 1962 she was assigned to Headquarters and an African field station as a clerk. CRICKARD resigned for the first time in March 1962 and rejoined the Agency in mid-1963, when she was assigned to a South American Station under State Department cover as a Reports Officer.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

-2-

RABNEY was the pseudonym of an Agency officer who is currently active in a sensitive nonofficial cover agent role in Europe. During the 1960-63 period he served as an operations Officer at Headquarters and in Europe.

3. Mr. Harvey was issued the pseudonym Daniel M. PRESLAND in 1956 and he used this pseudonym until he retired in 1967. This is the only pseudonym he used in connection with the ZRRIFLE Project and Cuban operations. Mr. Harvey was issued the alias William WALKER in May 1962 and he continued to use it while he was Chief of Cuban operations until he was reassigned in June 1963. There is no indication in the file that Mr. Harvey used this alias in connection with the ZRRIFLE Project. There is no record that Mr. Harvey was ever issued or used a cryptonym.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

IDENTITY A: Oliver M. Silsby

IDENTITY B: Elizabeth A. McNeill

SECRET

Yes


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)