# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.

2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper title no. below and forward document to RID/AN

FROM: CC

RID/AN

PROPER FILE NO:

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO            | ROOM NO. | DATE                | OFFICER'S INITIALS |           |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------- | ------------------ | --------- |
| 1. WH/C/ES    |          | 15 June 65          |                    |           |
| 2. WH/C/ES    |          | A7 JUL 1965         |                    | MICROFILM |
| 5. WH/C/MO/CI |          |                     |                    |           |
| ES/AK         |          | JUL 1965            |                    |           |
|               |          | 29 JUL NEEDED       |                    | MICROFILM |
| 7.            |          |                     |                    |           |
| 9.            |          |                     |                    |           |
| 10.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 11.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 12.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 13.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 14.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 15.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 16.           |          |                     |                    |           |
| 17. RID/FI    |          | CHARGED FROM RID/FI |                    |           |

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

ABSTRACT

INDEX

19-5-

DOCUMENT DATE

June 1961

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA-21693/1.1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# UFGA

Att. No. 4 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: ALEMAN, Carlos

1. Source met Subject about 1953 in the home of Agustine
   ALDAMA Acosta, calle Tejar between San Lazaro y San Anastasio,
   Lavton, Havana City. Source became a close friend of the Subject
   during this period because of their mutual activities against the
   Batista regime. About 1958 Subject was arrested because of his
   political activities and was confined at Principe prison until the
   overthrow of the Batist regime. Source believes Subject was a
   member of the Policia Nacional Revolucionaria in the early days of
   January 1959. In February 1959 Subject was appointed to a position
   in the Presidential Palace the same as source, where they were
   under the direct orders of Cusy AULET (mat unk). In December 1959
   Subject was a member of the Policia Nacional Revolutionaria, station-
   ed in a building located at Ave. Misiones y calle Pena Pobre.
   Subject vas transferred to the D'I as chief of the Departamento de
   Robos about 1961. Source last saw Subject about late 1961 when
   source went to the DTI to help a friend find his stolen car.
   Subject was not a communist before 1959, but now he is a staunch
   supporter of the GOC and a communist. When source left Cuba in
   March 1964 Subject was residing in Reparto Santos Suarez, Havana
   City. Subject is divorced and has a minor son. Source believes
   Subject came to the USA about 1952, but Subject has never travelled
   to any communist countries.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1928, HavanaCity,
   probably. Race: white. 5'6". 160 lbs. Hair: light and gray.
   Eyes: light. Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No
   visible scars.

3. JAVAVE Traces: Believed identical with Carlos ALEMAN
   Grass, 201-752505.

![ES COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SUBJECT: ALEJO Iniguez, Delfin

Att. No. 5 to UFGA-21693

1. Source met Subject about 1940 when they were neighbors at calle San Lazaro between Concepcion and Dolores Streets, Lawton, Havana City. Subject as a young man worked as a piano repairman. Source believes that Subject worked in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas during Batista or Prio regimes. In 1959 Jubject was working at the Bolsa de Confecciones (Control Office for textile factories) which was located at the Retiro Odontologico building, located on 23 St. and L. St., but source does not know exactly what type of work Subject did. Source believes that Subject worked in that position until he left Cuba for the U.8. in late 1960 or early 1961. nov resides at 1529 SW 7th St. Apt. 6, M11. Source believes that Subject has never been a communist and that he (Subject) was offered the mentioned position at the Bolsa de Confecciones because of his activities against the Batista regime. Subject has never travelled to any of the communist countries and source believes Subject never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1926, source does not know the place of birth. Race: white. 5'10". 165 lbs. Hair: light brown. Eyes: light brown. Shape of face:round. Build: medium. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET
UFGA 21093/14
Att. No. 7 to UPGA-21693

SUBJECT: AULET, fuu
aka: Cusi

ID: circa 1928
201-754934

1. Source met Subject about 1955 when they lived in the same neighborhood, Reparto Santos Suarez, Havana City, and since that time they have had frequent contact with one another because of their activities against the Batista government. About 1958 Subject went into exile in New York where he remained until January 1959, when he returned to Cuba. In early 1959 source was appointed to a position in the Presidential Palace through the influence of Subject. At that time source worked under Subject's directions and they had developed a close friendship. When source returned to Cuba in December 1959 he saw Subject only occasionally. Subject became a member of the Rebel Army and source heard that Subject attended a military course in Matanzas City. Source last saw Subject about January 1964 about two months before source departed from Cuba. Source says Subject is married and has children and that he resides at calle Luis Estevez between Mayia Rodriguez and Pasaje Oeste, Santos Suarez, Havana City. Source does not know if Subject has ever travelled out of Cuba, or if Subject has relatives outside Cuba nor does source know if Subject has ever received any political or intelligence training. Source does not know to what military unit Subject belongs. When source last saw Subject about January 1964, Subject had been shot in one leg during a personnal quarrel with a militia man, which occured in early 1963. Subject is very reserved and source stated they avoided speaking about politics.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1928, source believes Subject once told him he was born in the USA. Race: white. 5'8". 140 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of Face: long. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JMwave Traces: None.

UFGA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

Att. No. 8 to UPGA-21693

SUBJECT: AULET, fnu

C.I. UFGA: 21693/11/
aka: Pichi

1. Source met Subject in early 1959 when both were appointed to a position in the Presidential Palace and they remained in contact, but not close friendship, until June 1959 when source left this position. Source has not seen Subject since. In 1961 source heard rumors that Subject had a post at the Ministerio de Relaciones Exterices, but source does not know exact position held. About 1962 source heard rumors that Subject was in some communist country studying mechanics. When source left Cuba in March 1964 he was under the impression that Subject was still in this communist country studying. Subject is single and lived in Reparto Santos Suarez, exact address unknown. Source does not know if Subject has received any political, military or intelligence training, or if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1938, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'7" 125 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: thin. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET OFC - 21603/14
Att. No. 10 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: *BARZ, Jorge*

1. Source has known Subject since 1956 or 1957, being from the same neighborhood in Reparto Santos Suarez, in Havana City, Both were involved at that time in activities against Batista's regime. During this period Subject used to work as a construction laborer. In early 1959 Subject was appointed Chief of the Cayo Cruz garbage disposal unit and remained in this position until September 1962 at which time he resigned and left Cuba, coming to the USA. He presently resides at 2 Vicent Court, Apt. 2-C, Newark, New Jersey. Source last saw Subject in Cuba in September 1962. In the beginning of March 1965 Subject visited source in his home in Miami. Source states that Subject was never a communist and that since very early in 1959 was against the Castro regime. Subject has never traveled to any of the communist countries and has many relative residing outside Cuba at the present time. Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1926, Havana City (probably). Race: white. 5'11", 210 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# LGA - 21693/14
Att. No. 11 to UFGA-21693

## SUBJECT: BARRENA Barrena, Obdulio

1.  Source met Subject about 1960 at which time source was working at the Ministerio de obras Publicas as "Chief Buyer" for the District of Havana. Source and Subject became very close friends. Subject resigned his post about 1963, in order to arrange for his exit permit, and is waiting to leave Cuba for Madrid, Spain. Source says he believes Subject was never a communist and is sincerely against the present GOC. Since 1960 Subject resided at calle San Anastasio #678, la Vibora, Havana City. Source heard that Subject was separated from his wife and is living with his mother at the above mentioned address. Subject has never traveled out of Cuba; and has a cousin Berta NORIEGA (this is husband's patronymic) who lives in Miami, address unknown. Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2.  Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1930, Havana City. Race: white. 6'2", 155 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: long. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3.  JEWAVE Traces: None

UFGA-21693/14 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET FGA - 21693/14

Att. No. 12 to UPGA-21693

SUBJECT: BELLO San Pedro, Gregorio

1. Source met Subject about 1950 being from the same neighborhood in Reparto Santos Suarez, Havana. At that time Subject worked in the "La Estrella" (candy factory) located in Via Blanca, Havana City. Source became much more friendly with Subject about 1955 or 1956 when both were engaged in activities against the Batista regime. Subject was arrested in 1958 for such activities and was confined to the Castillo del Principe where he remained until January 1959. Source believes that for a few months in early 1959 Subject was a member of the Policia Nacional Revolucionaria. Source believes Subject then returned to his job at La Estrella. Source has a slight idea that Subject also worked for the ICA (Instituto Cubano del Petroleo) in the domestic gas division. Source last saw Subject about January 1964 in the streets in Reparto Santos Suarez where they had a casual conversation. Source says that in his opinion Subject is one of those persons who wants to remain on the "fence"; that sometimes he speaks in favor of the government and at other times against the GOC. It is source's opinion that Subject has never traveled outside Cuba and that he has no relatives outside Cuba. Source also stated that Subject has never received any kind of political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1925, Havana City probably. Race: white. 5'8", 130 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: long. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JEWAVE Traces: One Gregorio BELLO was the 26th July Movement leader, delegation No. 11 of Santos Suarez, Estrada Palma, and Sola Streets, Havana (AMWREN/1, 6 April 1961).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

RUFCA- 21693/14
Att. No. 13 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: BONITO, Luis

1. Source met Subject in December 1957 in Mexico City where Subject was in exile at that time. Source last saw Subject in January or February 1958. Source saw Subject several times in Mexico but never became friends. Source claims he has heard rumors that Subject has traveled to some of the Communist countries. Source believes that after the communist takeover in Cuba Subject had some position as a labor leader in the CTC (Confederacion de Trabajadores de Cuba) but souce is not able to provide any other info on this matter. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba or if Subject has received muy political, military or intelligence training. It is source's opinion that Subject was not a communist at the time they ast.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1920, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'9", 160 lbs. Hair: light brown. Eyes: light. Shape of face: oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

JEWAVE Traces: Subject above is possibly identical with Luis BONITO Milian, 201-187196.

UFGA 21693/1
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# UFGA- 21693/14

SUBJECT: CALDERIN, Pedro

1.  Source first met Subject about 1950 when Subject was a taxi driver in Havana, but had no close contact with him until early 1959 when both were appointed to positicas at the Presidential Palace under the direct orders of Cusi AULET. They became friends during this period of time which lasted until June 1959, when source left this job. Source again established contact with Subject in 1960 or 1961, at which time source was working at the Ministerio de Ohras Publicas and Subject had been appointed Administrador of "Luis Hion Company" (torrazo floors) which had been confiscated by the govern- bent. Because of Subject's position in said firm be had to frequently go to the Ministerio de Obras Publicas for which Ministerio this firm made terrazo fiocru. During these visits Subject used to talk with Subject. Source last saw Subject in mid-1963 when source visited him at the office of the Consolidado del Granito (this was the new name for all terrazo floor companies) located at calle Neptuno and Industria, Havana City. Source made thir visit in order to try to secure from subject a permit to buy a spare part for his (source) car. Source believes Subject was never a communist prior to 1959, but that he is now a supporter of the _COC. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled outside Cuba or if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba. Source does not know if Subject has ever received any political, military of intelligence training.

2.  Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1925, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'10", 155 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: long and thin. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3.  JMWAVE Traces: Hone.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

UFGA 21693/11. No. 15 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: CALZADILLA, fnu

1. Source met Subject in early 1959 when both were appointed to similar positions at the Presidential Palace under the direct supervision of Cusi AULET. Source maintained with Subject the normal relations of fellow employees until source left that position in December 1959. Source last saw Subject in June 1959. Source is not able to provide any info on Subject's life prior to the time they met. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled outside Cuba, or if he has any relatives outside Cuba. Source does not know if Subject has received any political, military or intelligence training. Due to the fact that source was in personnal contact with Subject for a very short time, source is not able to provide any information regarding Subject's political sympathies.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1937, Matanzas City, probably. Race: white. 5'11", 170 lbs. Hair: blonda. Eyes: light. Shape of face: oval. Physique: medium. No scars.

3. JEWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# UFGA-21693/14
Att. No. 16 to UFGA-21693

## SUBJECT: de CARDENAS, Orlando

1. Source met Subject in June or July 1959, when source was working at the Cuban Labassy in Mexico City, which Subject used to visit very frequently because he was a personnal friend of many of the Cubans employed there. Subject is a Cuban who has been residing in Mexico since about 1935. Source became a friend of Subject and this friendship lasted until December 1959, at which time source returned to Cuba. They did not see one another again until 1934 when source re-established his contact with Subject.
   -> Source believes subject has never been a communist and always expressed himself against the Cuban communist regine. Source says Subject has some medical products representations in Mexico City.

2. Physical Description: POB: circa 1915, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'8", 190 lbs. Hair: black and gray. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JEWAVE Traces: One Orlando de CARDENAS was a member of the PRD Delegation in Mexico in December 1960. In 1962 one Orlando de CARDENAS Miro attended a meeting in Mexico to discuss the formation of a new Cuban-Mexican anti-Castro organization, where he was named the Provisional Treasurer of the organisation (DBA 8997, 30 April 1962).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Att. No. 17 to UFGA-21693
UFGA- 21693/14
SUBJECT: CARRASCO, Irma

1. Source met Subject in 1962 when Subject was residing in an Apartment building located in Marianao, behind the Colegio de Belen, where a friend of source, Dr. Emilio FORS, used to live. Source maintained the social relationship with Subject until March 1964. Afterwhich they have maintained correspondence from Spain, where Subject has resided since September 1964. Subject according to source, is not a communist and is against the Castro regime. Source believes that Subject has never previously traveled outside of Cuba. Subject informed source that she has a brother (name unknown to source) who has been in the US since about 1961. Source believes Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training. Subject resides at calle Martin de los Heros 674-1, Madrid, Spain, and in Cuba Subject used to live in Reparto La Ceiba, Marianao, Havana Province, complete address unknown. According to source Subject intends to emigrate to U.S. from Spain.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1940, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'5", 130 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of Face: oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JEWAVE Traces: None.

> [Figure] A large 'X' mark is centered on the page.

13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

UFGA Att. Ho. 18 to UFGA-21693

21693/14

SUBJECT: CASAB, Roberto

aka: Pilin

1. Source met Subject about 1960 at the home of Ramon Buvelo, who resided on calle Serrano or calle Zapote, Santos Suarez, Havana City. Source had little contact with Subject at that time and they were never close friends. When source arrived in Mexico City in March 1964, he received a letter from WILTS in which source was given the Subject's US address: 461 B. 13th St., Hialeah, Florida. Source last saw Subject about mid-1961. Source stated that, although he had very little contact with Subject, his opinion is that Subject has never been a communist, and believes Subject never had any position in the Communist regime in Cuba. Source believes Subject left Cuba in early 1967, going to Spain, from where he came to the US. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled to any of the communist countries and does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba. Source does not know if Subject has ever received any political, military or intelligence training. Source cannot provide any information on Subject's private life.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: ca 1928, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'8", 165 lbs. Hair and eyes source can't remember. Shape of face: round. Physique: mid-heavy. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# UFGA- 21093414
Att. Fo. 19 to UYGA-21693

SUBJECT: CONCEPCION Morales, Jose Antonio
aka: Tito

1. Source has known Subject all his life because they are distant relatives. Source gave Subject a position as laborer in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas in 1960, when source worked there. Prior to this, Subject had never worked, because of his youth. After working in the Ministerio Subject became a benber of the Militia and a staunch supporter of the COC. Source claims that about 1962 Subject accused him of having removed a TV set from his (source's) home, which the source did because at that time he vas arranging his exit permit to leave Cuba. Subject on several occasions received military instructions for periods of one to two months, but source is not able to say the exact nature of thene courses or where the Subject received the training. Subject has not traveled outside Cuba, and has no close relatives outside Cuba.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1941, Santa Clara (probably), Las Villas Province. Race: white. 5'7", 130 lbs. Hair: blonde. Kyes: light. Shape of face: oval. Physiques slim. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# UFGA Att. No. 20 to UFGA-21603
~1093/14

SUBJECT: CUENCA, Cesar Ramon

1. Source met Subject in Mexico City in 1957 where Subject was then residing at calle Chapultepec, Colonia Narvarte. During the two months source was in Mexico he saw Subject frequently and they became very close but source has not seen or heard from Subject since about February 1958. In 1959 he heard rumors that Subject was stationed at the Estado Mayor in the Ciudad Libertad, Havana City, and also that Subject worked for a period of time at the Ministerio de Recuperacion de Belenes, but was later transferred to G-2 in Camaguey City. Source later heard that Subject was appointed to a post in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's mentioned positions or as to where he might be working at the present time. Subject's father prior to 1959 owned a drug store in Guanajay, Pinar del Rio Province. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled to any of the communist countries or if he has any relatives outside Cuba, nor whether Subject has over received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1937, Guanajay, Pinar del Rio Province, probably. Race: white. 5'8", 160 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

JEWAVE Traces: Subject above believed identical with Cesar CUENCA Montoto, 201-328943.

SECRET

UFGA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# UFGA-21693/14

SUBJECT: DUQUESNE, fau

Att. No. 21 to UFGA-21693

1. Source met Subject about 1960 when source was working at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas at which time Subject was a Labor Leader of the Construction Workers, and acted as "liaison" between the Ministerio and the constructions workers. Source's only contact with Subject was in December 1961 when source resigned his job. Subject is a militia member. Source is not able to provide any background information on Subject. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has traveled outside Cuba, or if he has received military or intelligence training. Source believes Subject has received some kind of political indoctrination or training but is not able to provide any other information on this matter.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1923, place of birth unknown. Race: negro. 5'10", 145 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: black. Shape of face: thin. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: One Armando DUQUESNE was listed as a Castroite-Communist employee of the Ministry of Justice (19-6-52/4-2, Report from Monte dated 10 November 1981).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# UFGA - 21693/14
Att. No. 22 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: ESPINO Lezcano, Roberto

1. Source met Subject about 1960 when source was appointed to this position at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, at which time Subject was already working there in the Department of Statistical Budget. Source last saw Subject in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas a few days before source left Cuba in March 1964. Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's life prior to the time they met. Source heard from fellow employees in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, that Subject was an "old" employee of that Ministerio, and had been working there since about 1950. Source saw Subject again in Mexico City, when Subject arrived in June 1964. Source says that Subject left Mexico about October 1964 and has since been residing at 1134 SW 4th Street, Apt. 20, Miami, Florida. Source says in his opinion Subject was never a communist and never was a member of any of the communist sponsored organisations. Source believes Subject had never traveled outside Cuba before. Source says Subject has many relatives outside Cuba at present time. Source says Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: POB: circa 1927, Cardenas, Matanzas Province. Race: white. 5'9", 150 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JHEAVE Traces: Roberto Santa Ana ESPIEO Lescano, DPOB: 26 July 1928, Cardenas, Matanzas, a former Public Works employee in Cuba is presently residing in Hialiah, Florida (MEXI 1007, 24 Sept 64).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# UGA- 21693/14
Att. No. 23 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: FERNANDEZ, Osmin

1. Source met Subject about 1955 or 1956 in the Castillo del Principe in Havana where Subject was serving time for political crimes and source went there to visit a friend, (Gregorio BELLO San Pedro). Source saw Subject again in 1957 while both were exiles in Mexico City. After his return to Cuba in 1959 source heard that Subject was a member of the Rebel Army. Source saw Subject again in 1959 or 1960 when, source visited his at the Marianao City Hall, where Subject was the Comisionade Municipal. Source also saw Subject several times at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas when Subject visited Osmani CIENIUEGOS Gorriaran who was his very close friend. Source believes he saw Subject for the last time in late 1960 on one of the visits Subject made to Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Source claims he is a friend of Subject, although not a very close one. Source believes that Subject has been a Communist sympathizer since 1957, as he heard Subject on several occasions making pro-Communist statements. Source believes that Subject has traveled on different occasions to Communist countries. Source does not know if Subject has relatives outside Cuba. Source believes Subject is a staunch supporter of the Cuban Communist regime. Source is not able to say if Subject has ever received any military, political of intelligence training. Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's private life. FERNANDEZ, Osmin

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1937 probably in San Juan y Martines, Pinar del Rio Province. Race: white. 5'5", 130 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: Source can't remember. Shape of face: thin. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JAVE Traces: Subject above is believed to be identical with Osmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion, 201-334092.
   FERNANDEZ, ASMIN
   J201-7549387


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

UGA - 21693/11
Att. No: 24 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: PORS, Emilio

1. Source believes he met Subject about 1955 while both were engaged in activities against the Batista government. Source states that since that time he has had a close relationship with Subject, as both used to visit each other frequently. Source states that since 1955 Subject worked in a Medical organization called O.M.P.O. (Source can't say what these letters mean) which was located on calle 23 in Vedado but source can't say the exact address. This was a Medical organization that made house calls for clients of said organization. Source believes Subject continued this same work after 1959, never worked for the government, and has never been a member of any communist sponsored organizations. (Source says Subject is married to Marta (patronymic and matronymic unknown) and has two minor children. Subject has lived since about 1963 at Ave. 41 #6623 Apt. 1, Marianao, Havana Province, Cuba. Source believes that since February or March 1959 the Subject has realized the evils of Castro's regime and has been against it. Source claims Subject has never been a communist sympathizer. Source believes Subject has never traveled outside Cuba. Source says that Subject has a sister named (fnu) FORS (Matronymic unknown), Mrs. Octavio DORESTE who has lived at 105-B Wallworth Park, Cherry Hills, New Jercay, since about 1963. Source says he believes Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1925, Cifuentes, Las Villas Province. Race: White. 5'9", 140 lbs. Hair: gray. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: long. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

UFGA-
Att. No. 25 to UFGA-21693
21693/14

SUBJECT: FUENTECILLA, Fernando

1. Source met Subject in early 1959 when source was working at the Presidential Palace and at this time Subject was applying for a position there, which source believes he never got. When source left Cuba in June 1959 Subject was still frequently visiting the Presidential Palace trying to acquire a position there. The next time source saw Subject was about March 1960 at which time Subject visited source at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas where he was then working, and where Subject wanted to get a job. Through source Subject was appointed office clerk at the Distrito #3, Havana which position he held until late 1960, when he was transferred as office clerk to the offices of Reforma Urbana located on calle O between 23 and 25 Streets, Vedado, Havana City. Source does not know why or when Subject was trans- ferred from the offices of Reforma Urbana to the Ministerio de Transporte in Plaza Civica, but during the first half of 1963 source was accompaning a relative who wanted a taxi permit from the Ministerio de Transporte and at this time souce saw the Subject who was then Chief of the Departamento de Licencias de Autos de Alquilor; source says that Subject was very helpful and through him source's relative got the necessary permit. Source believes that Subject is not a communist and if he is working for the government he is doing it because he has to have a job. Source believes Subject has never traveled outside Cuba, not has he ever received political, military or intelligence training. Source says Subject once told him that he has a married sister residing in the US; but source is not able to provide the name of the husband or the address. Source is willing to establish nail contact with Subject if necessary, who he believes, if properly approached could and would cooperate.

2. Physical Description: DPOR: circa 1941, Guantanamo, Oriente Province. Race: white. 5'8", 150 lbs. Fair: blonde. Eyes: light. Shape of face: oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars. Face has acne marks.

![signature]

3. JHWAVE Traces: None.

21

![stamp] SECRET
LUFCA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

UFG 21698714
Att. No. 29. to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: GAVILAN, Mario

1. Source get Subject about 1957 in Guanabacoa, Havana, through Ezequiel GOMEZ aka Kelo, who was engaged with activities against the Batista regime. Subject used to work for the Urban buses (routes 3 &5) Guanabacoa, and lived in Cojimar, Havana. On Castro's rise to power Subject continued working as driver in the Urban buses, and never held any position in the Castro regime.
   Subject went as an "alzado" to Escambray Mountains, with Ezequiel GOMEZ in early 1961 and was arrested in March 1961. When source left Cuba in March 1964 Subject was at the Isle of Pines Prison. Source says Subject has never been a communist and that he was honestly trying to overthrow the Castro regime. According to source Subject has never traveled outside Cuba, not has any relatives residing outside Cuba nor has he ever received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1930, Cojimar or Guanabacoa, Havana Province. Race: white. 5'8", 140 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: thin. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

UFGA- 21693/14
Att. No. 31 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: GIL Suarez, Lino

## 1.
Source met Subject in Mexico City in June or July 1959 at which time Subject was Military Attache at the Cuban Embassy. Source and Subject had the normal relationship of fellow employees but they were not close friends. At that time Subject was a sympathizer of the Communist system, and used to read communist and anti-USA propaganda. Source saw Subject again in the latter part of 1960, at which time Subject had a position in the Immigration Department of the DTI located at Monserrate and Empedrado, Havana City (this department issued exit permits). Source had gone there to request Subject's assistance in securing an exit permit for a friend and Subject granted said exit permit. In 1962 Subject was working for MINREX at Calzada & G, Vedado. In early 1963 source heard rumors that Subject had been appointed Military Attache to one of the Cuban Embassies in one of the Communist countries, the exact country is unknown to source. Source was not able to provide any information en Subject's private life, work, or any of Subject's activities prior to 1959. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba or if Subject has ever received political, military or intelligence training. Source believes Subject is a complete and staunch supporter of the Communist regime.

## 2. Physical Description:
DIPOB: circa 1935, Marianao, Havana. Race: white. 5'10", 150 lbs. Hair: light brown. Eyes: light. Shape of face: round. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

## 3. JMWAVE Traces:
Subject above is believed to be identical with Gil Lino SUAREZ Hernandez, 201-262638.

UFGA. 21693/14 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

UIGA- 21693/14
Att. No. 33 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: K-GOMEZ, Ezequiel
aka: KKelo

1. Source met Subject about 1955 at the home of Agustin ALDAMA Acosta, located in Calle Tejar between San Lazaro and San Anastasio, in Lawton, Havana City. After they met they became close friends and were engaged together in revolutionary activities against the Batista regime. Subject fought in the Escambray Sierra and was ther: when Batista vas overthrown in January 1959. At the time source met Subject he was a labor leader of the Urban Buses (Routes 3 and 5). Source believes in early 1959 Subject went back to his work at this bus line. In early 1960 Subject was appointed to a position at Customos at the Jose Marti Airport, Havana, but source is not able to provide any information on the tasks the Subject performed there. Source last sav Subject in late 1960 or early 1961 in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Some days after this visit Subject went as an "alzado" again to the Escambray Hountains where he remained until 17 March 1961 at which time he was arrested. When source left Cuba in March 1964 he knew froa newspapers that Subject was at the Isle of Pines prison. Source is of the opinion that Subject has always been against the communists and that he had been honestly engaged in activities against the Castro regime in Cuba. Source believes that Subject has a 16 year old son who is residing with his mother in New York, address unknown. Subject made a trip to Mexico about 1956, and also a trip to Miani about 1958.

21 DPOB: circa 1925, Guanabacoa, Havana Province. Race: white. 5'5", 135 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: round. Physique: medium. Ho visible scars.

3. JEWAVE Traces: One Ezequiel GOMEZ was identified as a pro-Castro infiltree at the Isle of Pines Prison. GOUKZ is a former Beabor of the MRP (DOI: September 1962) (UFGA 6761, 2-2, 4 December 1982).

SECRET 24

UFGA-21693/14

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

Att. No. 34 to UFGA-21603

UFGA-21693/14

SUBJECT: GONZALEZ Polanco, Horacio

1. Source met Subject about 1955 both having resided in same neighborhood in Reparto Santos Suarez, Havana, and at which time they were both engaged in activities against the Batista regime. About 1957 Subject went to the Sierra Maestra, where he joined Castro's forces, and upon the overti ow of Batista Subject returned to Havana with the rank of Lieutenent in the Rebel Aray and now has the rank of Captain. Source last saw Subject in early 1963 at the restaurant "La Antigua Chiquita" in calle Carlos Tercero, Havana, at which time they had a casual conversation. Source has heard sumors that on different occasions Subject has been stationed in Camaguey Province and also at the Isle of Pines. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled outside Cuba, has any relatives outside Cuba, or if he has ever received military, political or intelligence training. Source believes Subject is not a real communist, but a person who under that system has obtained a better position in life and has become one of the "new class".

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1926, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'11", 160 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: long. Physique: slim. Ho visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: Traces on Subject follow by special channel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

Att. Ko. 35 to UFGA-21693

# SUBJECT: GONZALEZ, Victoriano CAUFGA- 21693/14

## 1.

Source met Subject about 1940 both having resided in the same neighborhood in Reparto Lawton. At that time Subject worked as a salemman at a fruit store located on Calle San Lazaro and Dolores in Lawton, Havana City. In 1954 or 1955 Subject and source were also in contact because both were engaged in activites against Batista. Subject was one of the men that was placed with the source near the Presidential Palace in Havana to help in the attack that took place on 13 March 1957. They were not able to do so because the weapons they were supposed to use did not arrive on time. In 1960 source appointed Subject as carpenter in the Ministerio do Obras Publicas, and source believes Subject has remained in that post until the present time. Subject is not in favor of the present GOC because he is not a communist. Subject has never traveled to any of the communist countries, but source believes Subject came to the US as a baseball player in 1953 or 1954. Source says he believes Subject has no relatives outside Cuba, and that Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training. Source says he last saw Subject about October 1963 on the street in Lawton.

## 2. Physical Description:

DPOB: circa 1927, Matanzas City.
Race: mulatto. 5'5", 150 lbs. Hair: dark, curly. Eyes: light.
Shape of face: round. Physique: mid-heavy. No visible scars.

## 3. JUWAVE Traces:

No identifiable traces.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

UFGA - 21693/14
Att. No. 36 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: GRANADO, Miguel

1. Source met Subject about April 1960 when source was appointed to his position at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, where Subject was the Administrador of the Distrito #3, Havana. Subject remained in that position until early 1961, at which time he was transferred to another job located in the main building at the Plaza Civica, in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Since then source has seen him about two or three times, meeting his casualy in the street. During the period of time in which source and Subject were working together they became friends although not close friends. Source is not able to provide information on Subiect's life prior to the time in which they met. Source believes, based on the conversations he had with Subject, that Subject is against the Cuban communist regime although Subject's brother (fou) GRANADO was the Sub-secretario tecnico de Obras Publicas about 1961. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba or if Subject has received political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1915, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'7", 125 lbs. Hair: bald. Eyes: light. Shape of face: long. Physique: slin. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# UFGA-1093/14
Att. No 37 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: GRAUPERA, Roberto

1. Source met Subject about April 1960 at which time source was appointed to the Personnel Department at the Distrito #3, Havana in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, at which time Subject was the Chief Engineer of the said Distrito #3, Havana. In early 1961 Subject was transferred to the main office of Obras Pulicas at Plaza Civica and also at this time source believes Subject was appointed a professor at the University of Havana. At that time source became friendly with Subject. Source went to visit Subject at his home in Calle Santa Catalina, Reparto Santos Suarez, when source heard that Subject was leaving Cuba and coming to the US and source wanted to say goodby. Source has had no contact with him since that time. Source has heard that Subject is living with his family in Miami, and has a position as an Engineer in Hassau, where be goss every week. Source believes Subject has never been a communist, has never traveled to any communist country, nor has received any military, political or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1930, place of birth unknown. Race: white. 6'1", 210 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: black. Shape of face: oval. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces:

a. One Roberto GRAUPERA was employed as Cuban manager for MAM Dredging before the advent of the Castro regine (KUJUMP Novo, 18 September 1983).

b. Roberto J. GRAUPERA Graniela departed from Mexico 11 November 1980 (Travel Manifest)

c. Roberto J. GRAUPERA Graniela appeared on a list of the Technological Faculty, School of Engineering, Havana University (DOI: September 1962) (UFG 2714, 22 April 1933)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# FGA- 21693/14
Att. No. 38 to UPGA-21663

SUBJECT: GRIFFIN, fu

1. Source met Subject about 1960 when source was working at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas and Subject as one of the labor leaders of the Construction Workers acted as "liaison" with the Ministerio. Source only had contact with Subject while he was in his post in the Ministerio from 1960 until December 1961 when source resigned in order to come to the US. Subject was a militia member at that time but source is not able to provide any information prior to the time in which they met, or after December 1961 when source left the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, nor if Subject has traveled outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: POB: circa 1932 place of birth unknown. Race: negro. 6'1", 210 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of Face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JUWAVE Traces:

a. One William GRIFFIN Prado, aka: Willy, 35 years old, a blond with fair skin resides at Mariel, Pinar del Rio Province. He works in a cement factory called "El Morro" as Chief of Fleet, i.e. he is in charge of the ships which belong to the cement factory. His mother is a widow that was a teacher of the American children whose parents used to work and to manage the cement factory. Willy knows English perfectly. He has a brother, Richard GRIFFIN Prado who lives in the U.S. (ANOT Report, 6 June 1963)

b. One Victor GRIFFIN, a Negro is the General Superintendent of Construction Works in "La Antillana" steel rod factory. He is the most dangerous and fanatical defender of the regime. He is rumored to have sent some persons to the "firing wall", but source doesn't remember any specific details about this. Subject gives flash rallies in favor of the regime and against the U.S. (ANOT Report, 24 September 1963).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Att. No. 39 to UFGA-21693

UFGA- 21698/14

SUBJECT: ISALGUE, Sara

1. Source met Subject in June 1959 when Subject's husband, Salvador MASSIP was appointed Ambassador in Mexico City. Source stated his only contact with the Subject was from June 1959 to December 1959. Source believes Subject is a complete communist and a staunch supporter of the communist regime. Source has heard that Subject is now residing with her husband in a communist country where he is the Cuban Ambassador.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1890, Matanzas Province, probably. Race: white. 5'5", 150 lbs. Hair: gray. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: round. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces: Wife of Subject of 201-218391.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

Att. No. 40 to UFGA-21693
UFGA- 21693/14

SUBJECT: DE JOHN, Roberto

1. Source met Subject in January 1959 when both held positions at the Presidential Place under the direct orders of Cusi AULST. In early 1960 source heard rumors from mutual friends that Subject had a position in the Cuban Embassy in Santiago de Chile but source is not able to provide any information on Subject's position in said Embassy. Source last saw Subject on January 1964 at the Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores in Havana City, where source went in order to arraign some of his documents for his future departure from Cuba. At this time Subject vas vearing a militia uniform and he told source he was now working at the Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores. Source does not know Subject's political ideologies, if he has traveled to the comunist countries, if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if he has received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1930, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 6'8", 135 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: thin. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JHWAVE Traces:

a. One Roberto de JOHN replaced Julio T. CHUS as Cuban Civil Attache in Chile. Eis wife, Hidia ACOSTA is replacing Carmita ZUNIGA as secretary to the Cuban Ambassador (ECSA 8372, 13 January 1961).

b. Roberto de JOHN Fragua, a Diplomat, entered Mexico ca 11 September 1981 and departed Eexico on 14 September 1961 (Travel Manifests).

c. Roberto de JOHN Fragua, Diplomat, departed Bexico on 30 March 1982 (Travel Manifests).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

Att. No 41 to UFGA-21693
UFGA 21693/14

# SUBJECT: PLANTIDOD, Francisco
aka: Paquito

1. Source met Subject while both were in exile in Mexico City in 1957. Subject previously worked at the Compania de Electricidad in Havana City. Source heard that when Subject returned to Cuba in early January 1959, he returned to work at the Compania Cubana de Electricidad. Source believes Subject never had any position in the Cuban government. Source heard by rumor from mutual friends that Subject took asylum in the Venezuelan Embassy in La Havana about 1980, and that after a few months he went to Caracas, Venezuela, and then to the U.S. where he has been since late 1960. Source is unable to provide Subject's address. Source believes Subject has never been a communist. Source doesn't know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if he has received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1933, Havana City, probably. Race: white. Skin: dark. 5'10", 170 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JUWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SUBJECT: FOLLORA, Jorge

Att. No. 42 to UFGA-21693

1. Source stated he has never personally met the Subject. The Subject's name was given to him by a mutual friend, Ramiro RODRIGUEZ Puentes. Source wrote a letter to Subject addressed to 10 Bulkley Avenue, 3rd Fl., Port Chester, New York, 10573, and Subject answered this letter and told source to use his, Subject's name if necessary with the US Immigration Authorities. Source is unable to provide any further information on Subject.

2. Physical Description: Note: Source is not able to provide any physical description because he (source) has never seen him.

3. JHWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Att. No. 43 to UFGA-21693

UFGA- 21693/11

SUBJECT: LOFORTE, from C.I. Cule
alias Jimmy

1. Source met Subject in early 1959 while both were working at the Presidential Palace. About 1960 Subject told source that he, Subject, was working at the Ministerio de Interior (at the department of Foreigners resident in Cuba). Source last saw Subject about February 1964, when source went to the Ministerio de Interior to secure his exit permits. They spoke for a few minutes and source is not able to provide any details on Subject's position there. Source is unable to provide any information concerning Subject's political ideology, if Subject has traveled outside Cuba, if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1940 Guantanamo, Oriente.
   Race: white. 5'7", 130 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: oval. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JNWAVE Traces:

a. One Jimmy LOFORTE is either a member of, or the President of the Comite Para la Defensa de la Revolucion, Committee for the Defensas of the Revolution, for a sector of Infante Street in Havana (UFGA 3513, 15 March 1963).

b. Jimmy LOFORTE is a member of the Cuban I.S. (UFGA 17638 E-1, 26 August 1934).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SUBJECT: MACHADO, Manuel
aka: Manolo

1. Source met Subject in June or July 1959 because Subject was a frequent visitor to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, where source worked. Subject used to go there because he was a personal friend of many of the Embassy employees. Subject is a Cuban citizen who has been residing in Mexico since about 1945. Source maintained a friendship with Subject since they first met which was interrupted when source returned to Cuba in December 1959. Source re-established contact with the Subject in 1964, when source arrived in Mexico. From the conversations they had, source believes Subject has never been a communist and is against the Cuban communist regime. Source is not able to provide any other information on Subject.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1915, Cuban citizen. Place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 6'0", 150 lbs. Hair: gray. Eyes: light. Shape of face: thin. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JHAVE Traces: Subject above is believed to be identical with Manuel MACHADO Liosas, 201-267298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

Att. No. 46 to UTGA-21693

SUBJECT: KAS, Juan 1093/14

1. Source first met Subject about January 1959 when both used to work at similar positions at the Presidential Palace. Source believes that in about 1961 be met Subject who stated that he had recently returned from a post in one of the Cuban Embassies in a Latin American country, but source is not able to state the nature of Subject's position nor in which country this position was held. This was the last time source saw Subject. Subject once told source that he had once worked for the Judicial Police when the head of the organisation waa, Krundino VILELA, thich must have been during the period 1948-1952. Subject told source be was married to an Argentine woman. Source believes Subject still holds some position in the Ministerio de Relaciones Exteriores, but is not able to provide any information on this Batter. Source is unable to provide any information on Subject's trips abroad, if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB, circa 1912, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'7", 165 lbs. Hair: reddish. Ryes: light. Shape of face: oval. Physique: nid-heavy. Ho visible scars.

3. MWAVE Traces: Bubject above is believed to be identical with Juan MAS y Lana, Cuban Charge in Tegucigalpa (TEGU 3534, 20 June 1960).

SECRET, 36


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# UTGA-

Att. No. 48 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: MAZORRA, Rigoberto

1. Source met Subject on circa 1957 through Ezequiel GOMEZ aka Kelo at Guanabacoa, where Subject worked in the Urban Buses (Routes 3 & 5). Subject was then engaged in activities against the Batista government, and in 1958 he went with Ezequiel GOMEZ to the Escambray Mountains to fight against Batista remaining there until January 1959. In 1959 Subject returned to his work in the urban buses (routes 3 & 5) and Subject never held a position in the Castro government. In early 1961 Subject went to the Escambray Mountains to fight against Castro and was arrested about March 1961. When source left Cuba in March 1984 Subject was at the Isle of Pines prison. Source believes Subject has always been anti-communist. In 1959 Subject went to Guatemala with Agapito AMARO, who was trying to start a transport business in that country, but they returned because that business didn't work out. Source believes that Subject's wife and children are in the US but he is unable to provide names or addresses. According to source Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1923 Cojimar probably. Race: white. 6'0", 200 lbs. Hair: light brown and gray. Eyes: light. Shape of face: oval. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE traces: None.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

Att. No. 49 to UPGA-21693

SUBJECT: MENDEZ, Placido
aka "El Gallego"
UFGA-21693/14
indsuly-201-754938

1. Source met Subject about 1955 through a mutual friend Ezequiel GOMEZ, when they both were engaged in activities against the Batista regime. Source was exiled in Mexico with the Subject in 1957 in Mexico City, where both resided at calle Milan No. 40. In late 1959 Subject told source (in the street) that he was working in an Electrical Appliances store near Carlos Tercero, Havana. About 1960 source learned from a mutual friend that Subject was under arrest and source believes as of March 1964 Subject was still in jail. Source heard that Subject has a son, who is presently about 18 years of age. Source believes that the Subject is truly anti-communist, and that this is the reason why he is under arrest.

CIT: C

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1925, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'9", 160 lbs. Hair: blond. Eyes: light. Shape of face: round. Physique: mid-heavy. No visible scars.

3. JUWAVE Traces:

a. Placido MENDEZ Ramos was listed as under investigation by the Cuban G-2 for anti-Castro acts December 1960 (HKHA 7210, 16 December 1960).

b. One Placido MENDEZ Ramos, formerly MER Chief for Havana was imprisoned at the Isle of Pines (CK 234, 16 August 1968)

c. Placido MENDEZ, member of the MIM was taken prisoner (AMPAID/4 Production, 31 October 1982)

![signature]

US COPY

SECRET

UFGA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

Att. No. 50 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: *MEHENDEZ, Segundo*

UFGA-21693/14

1.  Source met Subject about 1948 at the Tricunal de Cuentas, Plaza Civica, Havana as source's sister, Blanca MONDEJAR Rodriguez, used to work in the same office of which Subject was the Director. Source last saw Subject in Cuba in early 1963, at which time Subject was leaving Cuba for Mexico. Source saw Subject again in Mexico in 1964. Source does not know if Subject has relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has received any political, military or intelligence training. Source intends to maintain correspondence with Subject.

2.  Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1918, place of birth unknown to source. Race: mulatto. 6'0", 210 lbs. Hair: gray. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: round. Physique: very heavy. No visible scars.

3.  JUWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# Att. No. 51 to UFGA-21693

# 21693/14

SUBJECT: PAEZ, Juan

1. Source met Subject about 1961 when Subject was appointed Administrador Distrito #3, Ministry of Obras Publicas, Havana, and source used to work at said Ministerio. Source claimed that their relations were the normal ones between fellow employees, but they were never friends. The last time source saw Subject was in 1963 at the "Bar Canciller" located on calle Paseo y Zapata. Source believes Subject continued working for the Ministerio de Obras Publicas but that he had been transferred to another post. Source is unable to provide any information on Subject's life prior to the time they met. Subject always dressed in the militia uniform and from his conversation source believes Subject is a complete communist and a staunch supporter of the regime in Cuba. Source does not know if Subject is a member of the PURS. Source is not able to say if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba. Source heard that Subject had worked in Brasilia, Brazil, while that city was being built. Source does not know if Subject has ever received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: 1930, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'9", 150 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark. Shape of face: oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: Subject above is believed identical with Juan BAEZ Martin, brother of Frank PAEZ Martin. Juan was an active member of the 26th of July Movement during the Batista regime. In December 1962 was the Chief of the Auditors Section of the Ministry of Public Works. (UFGA 08929, 18 December 1962).

CS COPY

SECRET
UFGA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SUBJECT: PENA, Pablo

Att. No. 52 to UPGA-21693

UIGA-21693/14

1. Source met Subject about 1960 when source was working at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, at which time Subject was one of the labor leaders of the Construction Workers, who acted as a "liaison" between the Ministerio and the Construction workers. Source only had contact with Subject from 1960 until December 1961. Source is not able to provide any information prior to the time in which they met, or after December 1961 when source left the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Subject is a militia member. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, if Subject has traveled outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received militiary or intelligence training. Source believes Subject has received some kind of political indoctrination or training, but is not able to provide any other information on this matter.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1925, place of birth unknown. Race: negro. 5'9", 145 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: black. Shape of face: long. Physique: slin. No scars.

3. JMHAVE Traces: Subject is believed identical with Pablo PENA Urrutia, Personnel Chief for Cayo Largo projects; negro. PENA is a member of the Construction Syndicate; lives in a reparto between Cotorro and San Francisco de Paula, Habana; is married and has two children, usually wears an olive drab uniform; is about 38 years of age, 6 feet tall, weighing 190 lbs, and has brown hair and eyes. (KUJUMP Memo, YCAC 2359)

CIT: Cuba Dob:C1927 Behinen PENA, PARLO

to suby. ~ 201-754938

UFGA-21693/SECRET

41


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# Att. No. 53 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: PERAZA, Luis

1. Source met Subject in Mexico City in December 1957 at which time Subject was in exile there. Source stated he was only an acquaintance of the Subject and never became a close friend. During this period he learned that Subject's father was Captain Adjutant for General) Ruperto CABRERA, during the regime of Pres. Prio. After source returned to Cuba in early 1958 he didn't see Subject again until early 1959 at which time source visited at his home, located on the second floor of a house located at Ave. 41 about two blocks from the Obelisco near Camp Libertad. Source made this visit because a few days previously someone had thrown a hand granade into the Subject's house and Subject's brother Sergio PERAZA was severely wounded. Source believes Subject has never held a position in the Castro regime and that subject has never traveled to any of the Soviet countries, nor received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1938, Havana Prov. probably. Race: white. 5'7", 140 lbs. Hair: dark, Eyes: dark. Shape of face: long. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces:

a. One Luis PERAZA Barrios recently arrested by BRAC as a communist suspect. Distributor of PSP propaganda under Abelardo J. ADAN y Garcia (HKHA 4549, 14 August 1958)

b. Luis PERAZA Barrios admitted having enlisted in the Republican Army in Spain in 1938 during the Spanish Civil War. He vas repatriated from France after the war and returned to Cuba. He said he had been affiliated with the PSP since 1946 and had continued to engage in clandestine activities for the Party after it was declared illegal in Cuba (HKH 1693, 13 August 1958).

c. Luis PERAZA Garcia, common passport 251992 arrived in Montevideo from Paris 23 November 1963 on Air France flt 97. (MONT 8411, 28 November 1963)

d. iuis PERAZA organized the Cuban Branch of Cuban-Polish Friendship Society, DOI: 3 October 1960. (WAVE 8244, 28 November 1963)

e. Luis PERAZA Cabrera is a mender of the G-3 with an officer's rank. His mother bes a pharmacy at 50 meters from AHLICE/2 (SOURCE) father's home, PRAZA supports CASTRO fanatically. His family is very detested in the neighborhood (AMRICE/2, 22 February 1964)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Att. 54 to UFGA-21693 dated

SUBJECT: *PERAZA (mat. unk.), Sergio, UFGA- 21693/14

1. Source met Subject in Mexico City in December 1957, at which time Subject was in exile there. Source was only an acquaintance of the Subject and they never became close friends. During that time he learned that Subject's father was Captain Adjudant of General Ruperto Cabrera during the presidency of Prio. After Source returned to Cuba in early 1958, he didn't see Subject again until early 1959 at which time Source visited Subject at his home on the second floor of a house located at Ave, 41, abouttwo blocks from the Obelisco near Camp Libertad. Source went to visit Subject due to the fact that a few days previously someone had thrown a hand-grenade into Subject's house and Subject was severely wounded. Source believes Subject has never held any position in the Castro regime, and has never travelled to any of the Soviet countries or received any political, military or "intelligence" training.

2. Physical description: DPOB: circa 1937 Havana Province. 5'8", 140 lbs., race: white; hair: blond; eyes: light; shape of face: long; build: medium. Scars on the left cheek produced by wounds from hand grenade explosion, also has difficulty in speaking from same wounds.

3. JMWAVE traces: Sergio PERAZA Cabrera, member of the G-2 with the rank of an officer, supports Castro fanatically. PERAZA's mother has a pharmacy 50 meters from AMRICE-2's (Source) father's home. PERAZA's family is very distrusted in the neighbori.cod (AMRICE-2, 22 February 1964).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SUBJECT: PERDIGON (mat. Wak.), Presbistero C.I.T.: Cund DOB: C1930

UFGA - 1693711

1. Source met Subject about February 1960 at which time both were working at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Source is not able to provide any information regarding Subject's life prior to this time. Source stated their relationship was merely that of fellow employees. Source last saw Subject in December 1961 at which time Source resigned his post at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Source believes that although Subject is a militia man and has a position in the Purchasing Department at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, Subject really works for the DSK or G-2 as Subject used to go frequently to the personnel department where he secured information from the personal files of the employees. Source does not know if Subject has ever travelled outside of Cuba, if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received any political, military or "intelligence" training. In Source's opinion Subject is a staunch supporter of the Cuban Communist regime. Subject is married to (fnu) FERNANDEZ (mat. unk.) who is a sister of Osmin FERNANDEZ (mat. unk.)

2. Physical description: DPOB: circa 1930, San Juan y Martinez, Pinar del Rio. Race: white. 5'10", 150 lbs., dark hair, dark eyes, long face, slim build. No visible scars.

3. JEWAVE traces:

a. Previstero PERDIGON is G-2 and head of the supply department for the Public Works, Havana (Navy Intel Info Rpt 9-8-61, 13 December 1961).

b. Prebistere PERDIGON, DOB: c. 1932, is Chief of Unidad 22, Materials Supply for the Ministry of Public Works, via Blanca and Paso Superior, Havana. Subject is also a Lt. in the Rebel Army and wears a uniform (DCE 15394, 5 August 1962).

c. Previstero PERDIGON, DPOB: 1930, Pinar del Rio. Subject is 5'8" tall, 108 lbs., black hair and eyes, a G-2 agent in Ministerio de la Construccion. Works as "Responsable de Suministros de la Regional Habana" of HICON, Office in the HICON warehouse in Carretera de Rancho Eoyeros, Subject is a miliciano and a member of the Rebel Army (Source: Olga FORNES Lopez de Espino, AMSIGH-1 Cobriefing, dated 15 September 1964).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET

Att. 56 to UFGA-21693 dated

## UEGA- 21693/14

SUBJECT: *RAPART (mat. unk.), Carlota Cilie indj.201-154938

Doo: C.1940

1. Source met Subject in early April 1964 through Olga *GOICOECHEA (mat. unk.) when she visited someone at the boarding house where Source was living in Mexico City. Source was socially acquainted with Subject from March 1964 to 22 December 1964. Subject lived in Cuba with her family until 1959 or 1960 at which time Subject loft Cuba with her parents for Mexico where her father Manuel RAFART (mat. unk.) was employed by the United Nations in Mexico. Subject is a Cuban citizen by birth, but Subject's father is a Spaniard who went to Cuba (date unknown) where he became a Cuban citizen. Source claims that from conversations he had with Subject, she is not a Communist and is against the Communist regime in Cuba. Subject lives at Calle Versalles #29, Apt. 3, Mexico D.F. Source believes Subject is in some way related to Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoya but is not able to say exactly how. Source believes Subject has never received any kind of political, military or "intelligence" training.

2. Physical description: DPOB: Circa 1940, Havana City probably. Race: white. 5'7", 150 lbs., light hair, light brown eyes, oval face, build medium. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE traces: None.

SECRET

UFGA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Att. 58 to UFGA-21693 dated

SUBJECT: RAMIRO (mat. unk.), Hector UFGA 21693/14

1. Source met Subject about 1955 at which time Subject had a small cigar store in the entrance of "La Estrella" candy factory in Via Blanca, Havana City. In early 1959 Subject was appointed to a position in the Presidential Palace where Source had been employed before he went to Mexico in June 1959. Subject remained working at the Presidential Palace but Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's position there. Source frequently saw Subject in their mutual neighborhood in the Reparto Santos Suarez. Subject is married and has three or four children, but Source is not able to provide any other information on Subject's private life. Source does not know if Subject has ever travelled out of Cuba, if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received any political, military or "intelligence" training. Source claims that Subject was never a Communist and that if he is working for the regime, it is because of the need for his job. Source believes that if Subject is properly approached he possibly would cooperate with us, but Source does not have Subject's address nor does he know anyway in which he could establish contact with Subject but is willing to do so if so asked.

2. Physical description: DPOB circa 1925, place of birth unknown to Source. Race: white; 5'8", 155 lbs, dark hair but balding, dark eyes, oval face, medium build. No scars. Has a nervous tck on the left side of the south.
   Cited thy andy ~201-754938

3. JWAVE traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Att. 59 to UFGA-21693 dated
UFGA - 21693/14
SUBJECT: RODRIGUEZ Puentes, Ramiro

1. Source met-Subject about 1950 as both resided in the same neighborhood in Havana. Subject was a radio-telegraphist and was employed as such in the Presidential Palace in Havana until 1959. Subject also worked as a radio-telegraphist at the Jose Marti Airport and at the Ministerio de Comunicaciones, all of which positions Subject held prior to the Castro regime. Source believes Subject remained working as a radio-telegraphist in the Jose Marti Airport and that Subject resigned this position in mid 1962 in order to secure his exit permit from the authorities. Since that time, Subject has been trying to leave Cuba. Source is not able to say how Subject has been able to support himself from 1962 up to the present time. Subject left Cuba for Mexico City on 30 October 1964-where they saw each other. Subject resides at Arcua de Belen #73, Mexico D.F., and is attempting to secure a U.S. visa. While in Cuba Subject used to live on Calle Della Vista between Agua and Santa Lutgarda, Reparto Palatino, Havana. Subject is married to Rosa VILCHES Montero and has an 18-year-old son and a 12-year-old daughter. Source says Subject has never been a Communist and is against the Castro regime. Source says Subject has a brother, Juan RODRIGUEZ Fuentes, who has been residing at Santurce, Puerto Rico since 1959 or 1960. Source believes Subject has never received any political, military or "intelligence" training.

2. Physical description: DPOB: 1925, Sagua la Grande, Las Villas Province, Race: white. 5'8", 165 ibs., black hair, black eyes, round face, heavy build, No visible scars.

3. JMJAVE traces: None.

UFGA-21693/14 SECRET 48


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Att. 60 to UPGA-1633 dated

SUBJECT: RODRIGUEZ (Mat. Unk.), Ramon

1.  Source met Subject in late 1957 when they lived together for two months at Calle Milan #10, Mexico, D.F.. This was the last time the Source saw the Subject. Source believes the Subject had a business of transporting commercial alcohol in Havana during the period from 1950 to 1957. Source doesn't know why Subject was exiled in Mexico, but knows Subject was a close friend of Placido MENDEZ (mat. unk.). Source has never heard from Subject again, and is not able to prvide any in.ormation about his political point of view or on his, private life.

2.  Physical-description: DPOB: Ciron 1620, place of birth unknown. Race: white. 5'4", 165 lbs., dark hair; dark eyes. Source cannot remember any other physical characteristics of Subject.

3.  JMVAWE traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

Att. 61 to UFGA-21693 dated
UFGA- 21693/11

SUBJECT: (pat. unk.)(mat. un.)(iou)
aka: ROLO

1. Source met Subject in 1959 when both were employed at the Presidential Palace, Havana. Source never saw Subject again until 1960 when both were employed at the Ministry of Obras Publicas. Subject was a delegate of the Minister, Osmani CIENFUEGOS. During that time Source saw Subject frequently until December 1961 when Source resigned his post at the Ministry. After this time Source never saw Subject again. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside of Cuba, if Subject has ever travelled outside of Cuba or if Subject has received any kind of political, military or "intelligence" training. Source says he has never talked to Subject and cannot provide any information on Subject's political point of view.

2. Physical description: DPOB: Circa 1930, place of birth unknown to Source. Race: white. 5'10", 150 lbs., black hair, dark eyes, long and thin face, slim build. No visible scars. Subject limps on one leg -- Source believes due to a gunshot wound.

3. JMWAVE traces: Card references for aka: POLO indicate that this is the nickname for Chafik Homero BAKER Zenni, 201-335014.

SECRET 50

UFGA-21693/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

Att. 62 to UFGA-21693 dated

SUBJECT: *SALINAS (mat. unk.), Pablo
UFGA -1693/11

1.  Source met Subject about September 1959 when Source visited Ciudad del Carmen, Mexico, where Subject lived. This trip the Source made on instructions of Agustin ALDAMA Acosta who told the Source to visit the Subject who would introduce Source to journalists and directors of newspapers at Ciudad del Carmen, Campeche, and Merida who would write and publish articles in favor of the Cuban Communist regime. Source saw Subject for about three or four days at that time and never saw him again. Source has the impression that Subject was a Communist by the way in which he talked. Source says he heard during this trip that Subject's wife and children lived in Mexico City and Subject remained in Ciudad del Carmen mainly because he had a small coconut plantation there. Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's private life prior to the time they met nor afterwards.

2.  Physical description: DPOB: Circa 1910, Mexican citizen. Race: white. 6'0", 190 lbs., black hair, light eyes, oval face, heavy build. No visible scars.

3.  JMWAVE traces: One Pablo SALINAS, Communist, who is an agent of Hector GARCIA Vidal, former Cuban Military Attache, is now in southeastern Mexico (CSCI-3/763,359, 9 January 1961, EMI 5286).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# 1030,11
Att. 63 to UFGA-21693 dated

SUBJECT: SANTANA (mat. unk.), Odilio

1. Source met Subject through Ezequiel GOMEZ (mat, unk.) at Guanabacoa in about 1957. Subject was engaged in activities against the Batista Government and was employed as a conductor in the urban busses (Routes 3 and 5) in Guanabacoa. Source believes Subject was exiled in Miami in 1958. After Subject's return to Cuba, Source believes he went back to work at the urban busses in Guanabacoa. Source has not seen Subject since 1957. Source heard that Subject was "alzado" with Ezequiel GOMEZ (mat. unk.) aka Kelo in the Escambray Sierra in early 1961, and they were arrested together circa March 1961. When Source left ha in March 1964 he heard that Subject was at the Isle of Pines Prison. Source believes Subject has no relatives outside Cuba and has not raced ved any military, political or "intelligence" training.

2. Physical description: DPOB: Circa 1932, place of birth unknown to Source. Race: white. 5'10", 150 lbs., blond hair, light eyes, long face, slim build. No visible scars,

3. JMWAVE traces: None.

![photo]

STT UTGA-31693/14

SECRET 52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

Att. 64 to PGA-21693 dated

# SUBJECT: *SARDA* (mat. unk.), (fou)

1. Source met Subject about early 1960 when Source was working at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas, and at which time Subject was the Secretario of the Constructions Workers and acted more or less as "liaison" between the Ministerio and the Construction Workers. Because of his work, Subject made frequent visits to the Ministerio de Obras Publicas where he would contact Source because of Source's position there. Source had no contact with Subject since 1961 when Source left his position with the Ministerio de Obras Publicas. Source says Subject is a militia man, which uniform he constantly uses. Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's life prior to the time when they met, or after December 1961. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, if Subject has travelled outside of Cuba or if Subject has ever received military or "intelligence" training. Source believes Subject has received some kind of political indoctrination or training but is not able to provide any other information on this matter.

2. Physical description: DPOB: Circa 1930, place of birth unknown to Source. Race: Negro. 5'10", 165 lbs., black hair, black eyes, long face, medium build. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

Att. 65 to UTGA-21693 dated

UIGA-

SUBJECT: FSOLIS Gonzalez, Piedad SEYF

1. Source met Subject in 1957 in Mexico City at which time Subject (who is a Mexican citizen) was married to Reinaldo BENITEZ (mat. unk.). According to Source, BENITEZ was one of the men who went to Cuba in 1956 with Castro on the GRANMA . Source stated he saw Subject again in 1958 when Subject visited Cuba. Source believes Subject stayed with the ALDAMA family on Calle Tejar between San Lazaro y San Anastasio, Lawton, Havana City. Source stated he may have seen Subject when he was working in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico from July to December 1959. Source saw Subject again when Subject went to Havana in 1960 when Subject resided at the Edificio Los Colonos on Calle Juan Delgado and Lacret, Santos Suarez, Havana City. Subject returned to Mexico in late 1961. Source does not believe she later returned to Cuba. Between March and December 1964 Source saw Subject once or twice a week as Source received mail at Subject's address in Mexico City. Subject told him that she is separated from her husband. Source does not believe there is another man in Subject's life. Source stated he is almost positive that Subject has never been a Communist and that she is against the Communist regime in Cuba. Source does not know if Subject has ever travelled to any Latin American country or to any Soviet Bloc country. Source says Subject has a brother, Ignacio *SOLIS Gonzalez, who has been in New York since about 1960, address unknown to Source.

2. Physical description: DPOB: Circa 1933, Veracruz (probably) Mexico. Race: white (Indian characteristics). 5'3", 130 lbs., dark hair (straight), light crown eyes, round face, mid-heavy build. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

Att. No. 66 to UFGA-31693

# SUBJECT: SUARES, Jose

UFGA-1693/14

1. Source met Subject in late December 1957 in Mexico City, but had very little contact with him then. Source saw Subject again early in 1959 in a public office building in Havana. This was the last time he saw Subject. Source says that Subject was one who attacked the Cuartel Moncada on the 26 of July of 1953 and was arrested with Fidel CASTRO. Source believes the Subject is not a Communist. As far as source knows Subject does not hold any position in the Cuban government. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled to any of the Soviet bloc countries or if he has any relatives outside Cuba.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: Circa 1926, probably Artemisa, Pinar del Rio. Race: white. 5'6", 145 lbs. Hair: light. Eyes: light. Shape of face: long. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: One Jose SUAREZ, member of the 26th of July Movement, N.Y.C., resides at 610 W. 163rd Street, Apt. 16, N.Y. 32, N.Y. (DBY 97723, 29 Dec 61).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# UFGA-21093/14

Att. No. 67 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: TOMAS, Israel

1. Source met Subject in early 1961 when Subject was appointed Chief of Distrito #3, Havana in the Ministry of Obras Publicas where source also works. Source claims his relation with Subject was as fellow employees and they never became friends. Source heard in the Ministerio de Obras Publicas that Subject had been appointed to that post because of his old membership in the CommuList Party. Source is unable to provide any information on Subject's life prior to this period. Source heard that Israel TOMAS is not the real name of the Subject, but an aka used according to Communist practice. Source last saw Subject on December 1961 at which time source resigned his post at said Ministerio. Source is sure that Subject has to be a PURS member. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled outside Cuba. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, or if Subject has ever received any military, political, or intelligence training. Source does not know any information on Subject's private life.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1910, Havana Province.
   Race: white. 5'11", 210 lbs. Hair: gray. Eyes: light. Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JKWAVE Traces: Believed to be identical with 301-315876.

![signature]
UFGA-21643/14

56. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# UGA-21693/14
Att. No 63 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: TORRES Picart, Juan

1. Source met Subject about July 1960 when Subject was appointed Chief of Personnel of Distrito #3, Havana, where source worked. Source learned from Subject that he, Subject, was a Spaniard, who came to Cuba about 1938 after the Spanish Civil War. Source Also learned that during the 1930's Subject was a member of the Partido Anarquista in Spain. Source believes he last saw Subject in early January 1962 on a visit he made to the Ministerio Obras Publicas. Source says Subject always wore the militia uniform, and that Subject claims he is a good friend of Carlos DIAZ ex-father-in-law of Osmani CIENFUEGOS Gorriaran, and is an old member of the Communist party. Source says Subject is married and has a son of about 18 years of age, but source is unable to provide any other information about Subject's private life. Source does not know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba. Source has heard rumors that Subject worked prior to 1960 in the Departamento de Cultura of the Rebel Aray. Source was unable to provide any information as to whether Subject had ever received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1910, Spain, Cuban citizen. Race: white. 5'6", 185 lbs. Hair: almost bald. Eyes: brown. Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JENAVE Traces:

a. Juan TORRES Armesto's name appeared in a list of alleged Communist, informers and voluntary collaborators. Subject is a resident at the Calixto Sanchez Section in Rancho Boyero (UFGA 1914, 19 July 1961)

b. One Juan TORRES is the Administrator of the Telephone Company in Cienfuegos. Subject is anti-Communist and trustworthy. (AMOT Report, 22 August 1962)

c. One Juan D. TORRES was identified as a pro-Communist employee at the Cuban Telephone Company. (UFGA 5663, 13 Sept 1963)

d. One Juan TORRES is Head of the Defense Committee in Holguin. Age approximately 50, Address: Marti Street, near the corner to Central Highway. Employed in the Public Works. Subject was repatriated from the U.S. but is dissatisfied with the CASTRO regime and regretted having left the U.S. (AMOT Report, 23 Oct 1962)

e. One Juan TORRES is a member of the Communist Party in Ceiba Mocha. (AMOT Report, 26 October 1965)

f. One Juan B. TORRES works for the Communist regime in Cuba. Address: JZdo. Instruccion Cienfuegos (UR MEMO 110, 13 February 1963)

g. Juan TORRES Picart, is listed as the Head of the Personnel Department of the Havana Regional (AMOT Report, 29 July 1963)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

Att. No. 70 to UFGA-21693

UFGA- 21693/14

SUBJECT: VALDES Meneses, Pedru

1.  Source met Subject when source began to work at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas in 1960, where the Subject also worked, from which time they became very close friends. Source last saw Subject on 31 July 1962 on which date Subject left Cuba and came to the U.S. Subject used to work in private construction companies, before the Castro regime. Source says Subject has never been a Communist and that although he was working at the Ministerio de Obras Publicas he was against the Cuban Communist regime. Source believes Subject has never traveled before outside Cuba. Source says Subject has some relatives outside Cuba but is not able to provide their addresses. Source says Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2.  Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1938, Marianao, Havana.
    Race: white. 6'0", 150 lbs. Hair: light brown. Eyes: brown.
    Shape of face: long. Physique: slim. No visible scars.

3.  JMWAVE Traces: None.

![UFG.4.21692/1/SECRET 58]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

Att. No 73 to UFGA-21693

UFGA - 1693/14

SUBJECT: VICTORIA, Aido

1. Source net Subject about 1953 or 1954 when they were engaged in activities against the Batista regime. Subject used to work as a truck driver for "Expresos Amaro" in Havana City and about 1959 he was employed at the Compania Cubana de Telefonos as a truck driver, working there for about two years when he resigned in order to be able to get an exit permit to leave Cuba. Source does not know why Subject has not as yet been able to leave Cuba. Since about 1961 Subject has been able to support himself as a truck driver, driving a truck owned by Subject's friend. Subject has lived since about 1960 at calle Teresa Blanco #35, Apt. 4, Luyano, Havana, residing there with his wife, Lucia Haria PERDOMO Mirabal, no children. Source says Subject has never been Communist and is against the Castro regime. Source believes Subject has never traveled outside Cuba. Subject, has one sister in the USA and another one in a Central American country, but source is not able to provide their addresses. Source says he is almost sure Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

Cince of VICTORIA, ALDO

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1932, Las Villas Province.
   Race: white, dark skin. 5'6", 155 lbs. Hair: dark. Eyes: dark.
   Shape of face: round. Physique: heavy. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

Att. No. 74 to UFGA-21693
UFGA - 21693/14

SUBJECT: VIDAL, Ricardo

1. Source met Subject in June 1959 at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City where Subject was the first Secretary. During this period source became a friend of Subject's. While in Cuba source heard rumors in late 1960 or early 1961 that Subject had defected from the Castro regime. When source returned to Mexico in March 1964, and after he was denied his entrance 1: the U.S. he went to see Subject at a printing shop where Subject was employed at calle Sandalo #93, Mexico D.F. The source made this visit to Subject because source knew that Subject had very good relations with many U.S. Diplomats, and also had good contacts in Washington, D.C. (Source knew Subject had been a career diplomat for more than 30 years.) Subject orientated the source in the steps he should take such as writing a letter to the State Department and to others. During the time source was in Mexico from March to December 1964 source saw Subject about six or seven times, sometimes in the streets, or visiting him at the printshop. Subject resided at calle Cholula #109, Apt. 3, Colonia Hipodromo, Mexico, D.F. Since source arrived in the U.S. he has had no contact with Subject. Source believes that Subject has never been a Communist and that if Subject was in a post in Mexico it was because he was an experienced Diplomat and the Cuban Government needed him. Bource believes Subject has never traveled to any Communist country. Source believes Subject has his immediate family in Maxico with him, and does not know if Subject has any relatives in Cuba or in the U.S. Source does not know if Cubject has received any military, political or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DOB: circa 1910, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'4", 140 lbs. Hair and eyes source can't remember. Shape of face: round. Physique: medium. No visible scars. Wears moustache.

3. JNWAVE Traces: Subject above/believed to be identical with Ricardo VIDAL Domingues, 201-390894.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

#

Att. No. 75 to UFGA-31693

SUBJECT: VILLAFANA, Manuel C

1. Source met Subject in 1959 when Subject was the Military
   Attache at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, D.F. Source is not able to provide any information on Subject's life prior to this date. When source returned to Cuba in December 1959 Subject remained in his post in Mexico City, and source has not seen Subject since that time. Source said he read in the newspapers in 1960 that Subject left his post and had come to the U.8. Source says that he wrote to Subject from Mexico when source was denied his U.8. visa, securing Subject's address through source's sister who was in Miami. In source's opinion Subject_is_not a Communist and resigned his post when he realized the Cuban regimo vas a Communist one. Source does not know if Subject has ever traveled outside Cuba besides the trip to Mexico and to the U.S. Source does not know if Subject has relatives outside Cuba or if Subject ever received political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1925, place of birth unknown to source. Race: white. 5'7", 150 lbs. Hair and Eyes: dark. Shape of face: oval. Physique: mediun. No visible scars

3. JEBAVE Traces: Subject above is believed to be identical with Nanuel ULLAFANA y Martinez, 201-093818.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# GA

21693/14

Att. No. 76 to UFGA-21693

SUBJECT: WILTZ Bucelo, Ramon

1. Source met Subject about 1940 being from the same neighborhood, Reparto Lawton, Havana. Before the Castro regime Subject used to work as office clerk in a Notary Public office. In early 1959 Subject was appointed to a position in the Ministerio de Salud Publica, but source is not able to provide any information on this position. Subject worked at this position for one or one and a half years. About 1960 Subject was appointed as coach of the basket-ball team at the University of Havana but resigned this position in late 1961 in order to secure his exit permit. He left Cuba in early 1962 and presently resides at 2565 SW 25th St. Apt. 2, Miami. Source says that in his opinion Subject has never been aCommunist and is completely against the present GOC. Subject has traveled widely to Latin America, the U.S. and also Europe, with different sport teams. Subject has a brother and a sister residing in Miami. Subject has never received any political, military or intelligence training.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1926, Havana City..

Race: white. 5'9", 165 lbs. Hair: black. Eyes: dark. Shape of face:oval. Physique: medium. No visible scars.

3. JMWAVE Traces: Ramon Francisco WILTZ Bucelo. DPOB:

12 December 1926, Arroyo Naranjo, Habara, arrived in the U.S. on 22 June 1962 (DBA 14541, 7 July 1962).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# SUBJECT: YOUNG, Manuel
aka:"El Chino"

E.I: Cuba, DPOB: C 1940, Pinar Cuba
Filed: Young, 201-7-4938, Reporte
G-2 in Pinar del Rio, Revised through

1. Source met Subject when both were exile in Mexico City in late 1957. Source saw Subject again about 1960 in Pinar del Rio City on a trip source made there accompanying his father who had a farm in Consolacion, Pinar del Rio Province. Source claims he never was a close friend of Subject. Source heard about 1959 that the Subject is a Lieutenant in the G-2 in Pinar del Rio City. Source is not able to provide any information on subject's private life nor does he know if Subject has any relatives outside Cuba, if Subject has ever traveled to any country in the Soviet bloc, or if Subject has ever received any political, military or intelligence training.

manuel Young Lezcano.

2. Physical Description: DPOB: circa 1940, San Juan y Martinez, Pinar del Rio Province, probably. Race: Mulatto with chinoce characteristics. 5'5", 135 lbs. Hair: black and straight. Eyes: dark. Face: thin., Physique: slim. No visible scars.

CIT: Cuba

3. JUAVE Traces: Subject above is believed to be identical with Manuel YOUNG Lezcano. DPOB: 8 October 1940, Pinar del Rio. YOUNG is the Deputy Chief, G-2, Pinar del Rio.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)