14-00000
104-10227-10150 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

10 Cctober 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with Dr. MIRO Cardona on 6 October

1. Dr. MIRO arrived about 9:50 a. m. for the meeting we had set at 10:00; again he was driven by his secretary whom he introduced. As during the first meeting, she remained outside in the car. Our meeting lasted until 12:00 noon.

2. First, Dr. MIRO handed me a note in longhand listing the topics discussed with me on 5 October. These points are:

a. Groups conducting propaganda, etc. with Agency support should receive their support and be coordinated through the Council.

b. A propaganda campaign should be waged by the Council aimed at:

(1) Cuba, via a long wave radio station in Key West.

(2) Cubans in Miami and other U. S. areas by:

(a) Subsidising *Diario de las Americas*.

(b) Contracting for time on radio stations.

(3) Latin America, with a plan such as the Operacion Griete."

c. Underground Activities.

(1) Provision of monthly funds to Council for procuring Cuban pesos to send to the seven-odd resistance groups in Cuba through reliable channels (such as previously sent through the Italian Embassy).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

(2) Commando action as outlined in plan presented to ma on 6 October.

3. Commando Plan

Then Dr. MIRC handed me a plan (in English) for clandestine action prepared by his military collaborators, whom he named as Colonel Manuel VARELA Castro, an officer of the Academy, Captain Enrique DESPAIGNE, and Colonel (fnu) MONTEAGUDO, He slated that they were of the BARQUIN group and had been prisoners.

With respect to the plan for clandestine operations in Cuba, he stated that 300 men could be counted upon for commando action, part of them hore, part iu Cubs. Ho reiterated that a commando operation was essential to bolster morale among the anti-Castro clomente in Cuba ated in exile sa well as to conduct sabotage that would further weaken Cuban economy and the Communist regime. He said that for this operation V. S. help would be necessary in providing weapone, arnino, demolitions, equipment, and funds. He proposed that if this plan was considered to have merit, that I arrange to have someone mact with his military mon to work out the details. After all preparations had been made and matoriel provided, etc, the operation would be purely a Cuban affair. (NOTE: Plan turned over to Thorageen at our neeting at 15:30 on 6 October for transmission.)

4. Request for Arma, etc, to send to Escambray

Dr.MIRO zenmarked that over a month ago he had made a request to Clark for arma for the anti-Castro insurgents in the Escambray, but to dato bad heard nothing relative to the request. He commented wryly. "I ask but never hear an answer." He said that the lighters there should be supported. Dr. Mlite stated that he had a boat (provided by us) and a means for delivery of the arme. Cavaldo RAMIREZ 18 chief of the Escambray group.

COMMENT: Has anything been done about this request?

5. Information on Arms Heceived by Castro Regimo

Ur. MIRO handed ine a lone report which he said was brought to him by the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba when the latter came to the U. 5. at the time of President RONDILIO visit. *"He eaid the Ambassador would not divulge the source of the information but commented, "You will know."*

* Report turned over to Thompson on 6 October.

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Dr. MIRO said there was no way to determine the accuracy of the figures given of planes, guns, etc, received from the Soviet bloe (and Italy and Canada) but even if the figures wore exaggerated 100 per ceat, they would still be impressive.

Ho added that Castro is daily becoming stronger militarily with weapons and with a large militia of close to 300,000 being trained to use them while the economy continues to deteriorate. Ferhaps caly half the militia would be effective. But that is siseable. Thus, he said, the longer the delay in positive military action to overthrow Castro, the greater will be the task. "We must act soon, vigorously and effectively, to insure victory. Another defeat would be disastrous and would make Cubnas, Latin Americans and others believo Castro to be invincible. Then would come accommodations and even worse, the traplanting of Castro-backed regimes in the hemisphere. And the U. S. would sufier worst of all, being diacredited for defeat and "gullt of interiorence." "in the UN na nation would stand boside the U. S."

6. Proposal that Comell go to Cuba with Commando Group and Establish a Goveroment on Cuban soil

Dr. MURO then declared that he was convinced that Castro would never be overthrown by all the propagania, the sabotage, commando raido, guerrilla activities, rupture of diplomatic relations and deteriorating ocononly, and that it was inconceivable to establish a government-irexile for nothing would come of it, that the only solution for defeating the Castro regime was for the Revolutionary Conacil to go to Cuba and estab- lish a goverament cu Cuban soil, ask recognition by all friendly countries and military assistance of its principal ally, the U. S., and that the U.S. be ready to intervene Immediately with its Forces. This would all have to take place in a matter cf 48 hours, otherwise it would fail. I recognise that this is a bold plan, but boldness is necessary. There will be many risko, many may be killed. As for myself, I don't care if I die. I have loat all my personal possessions and may son is a prisoner," he reiterated that all roust be well prepared in advance, there must be no vaciliation, everything must proceed rapidly. First, a commando raid in force to Beina a piace of Cuban territory, preferably near Guantanamo, and loanie- diately the members of the Council go ashore, proclaim a provisional government, broadcast by radio to a'l nations an appeal for recognition (and cables prepared in advance would also be sent out), requeat U. S. assistance, and the U. 5. should furnish such assistance at once in ade- quate strength to ensure victory.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

Before such an action is undertaken, the enemy must be softened by propaganda, cabotage, raids, underground action, and the mass of the people of Cuba must be prepared to accept the provisional government through propaganda, increased knowledge of the Council and its unifying efforts.

Dr. MIRO asked me what I thought of this project; did I think that Castro could be overthrown in any other way. I admitted that strong military action appeared necessary. I stated further that of course his plan would have to be studied at the highest government levels. He proposed that he might elaborate a plan with his military collaborators, and I suggested that he do this so that it might be examined and considered.

Dr. MIRO declared that he was convinced that this Communist dagger in the side of the States could only be eradicated by such action, that the U.S. is and will be blamed for all anti-Castro propaganda, sabotage, etc. and that enemy states will denounce it for intervention in Cuba, but that if the U. S. goes to the aid of a friendly revolutionary regime established in the country and helps it defeat the Soviet-backed Communist regime, all friendly governments will applaud.

"I have no personal political ambitions," declared MIRO. "I merely am trying to chair the Council, whose mission is to unify the anti-Castro elements inside and outside of Cuba. If the team isn't considered effective, then change the pitcher. But I believe the Council must establish itself on Cuban soil, and soon. Time is against us." The Junta del Este agreement will backfire against the U. S. if Castro is allowed to remain in Cuba. In a year, after the politicians of the countries receiving U. S. aid have gotten their hands on U. S. gold, they will say, 'Thanks to Castro, we got this.' And they will spend it as in the past with no benefits to the social and economic welfare of the people."

## 7. Views about the Judges and Lawyers

I queried Dr. MIRO as to his views relative to the judges and lawyers and their future status. He said he hoped that they could all reunite and that they could be given assistance as in the past. He declared that Dr. ALABAU was not qualified to be a justice and that he was doing nothing but making politics and trying to discredit the Council and MIRO and VARONA. Dr. MIRO declared that he, as Prime Minister in the early days of the Castro government, had named LABAU to the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Supreme Court, but that now he considered LABAU unfit to hold any judicial position.

## 8. Members of the Revolutionary Council

Dr. MIRO remarked that he had a meeting of the Council an 10 October. I asked what elements now composed it and what he proposed to add. He named the following as presently in the Consejo:

Rescato
30 de Noviembre
MAR
Accion Democratica
20 de Mayo
AAA Indopondiento
MDC
Montecristi

Ho said ho had invited to join:

MRP
Unidad Revolucionaria

and awaited their reply.

He would also like to have the Workers, Students, and the Professionals (Doctors, Lawyers, etc.) come into the Council. He believes Batistianos and Comunistas and elements unwilling to cooperate should be excluded, but that all other groups should be brought together under the Council.

Ho contends that all anti-Castro activities, except clandestino and military, should be coordinated by members of the Council, but that the excepted activities should be known only to him (MIRO).

## 9. Probable Argentine Rupture of Relations with Cuba

Dr. MIRO declared that he believed finiminent the Argentine rupture of relations with Cuba. He said the Argentine Ambassador to Cuba (Julio AMOEDO) was ordered to return to Havana (he had boon vacationing in the U. S. after FRONDIZ.I's visit); that VILLANUEVA, a Secretary of the Argentine Embassy in Cuba was coming to see MIRO today; and further that he (MIRC) had received a phone call last night


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

from a Spaniard (Nicanor FERNANDEZ) in Buenos Aires, urging MIRO
to go to Buenos Aires to arouse anti-Castro sentiment of the people,
Inasmuch as some Argentine action against Cuba appeared imminent.
(FERNANDEZ said he had already written MIRC a letter.) MINO says,
"Of course, I cannot go. I have the Consejo meeting on the 10th,
Furthermore, I am going to New York on October 11th or 12th for the
SIP (Socloded Interamericana de Prensa) meeting and have boen allotted
12 intoutes to address the meeting."

10. MIRO to attend Homage to LACERDA (Brazilian who
    Precipitated QUADROS' resignation) on October 15

Dr. MIRO sald he planned to remain in New York City (after
11 and 12 October SIP meoting) until October 15th to attend the homago
for LACERDA, the Governor of Guanabera province in Brasil. MIRO
probably will stay at the Park Chambers Hotel, but will advise Clark
of his location.

I cominented that I would probably remain in Washington next
week in view of his plans, but that I might go to New York City to meet
with him; if so, I would get in touch with him and arrange a meeting
time and place through Clark.

11. Propaganda Cominission

I asked Dr. MIRO about his ideas on the future organization
and structure of the Propaganda Comnilesion. He stated that it is out-
aide the Consejo and not under his direct control, although the Council
accountant has been passing funds to it. He said CARRILLO had resigned
as head of Propaganda and that he would like CONTE AGUERO to handie
it. He claimed that MESTRE had not done anything with propaganda.

12. MIRO's Views Relative to Supreme Court Justice or PRIO
    being Recognised as Head of a Provisional Government

I asked Dr. MIRO if he believed that there were many anti-
Castro Cubans (both in and out of Cuba) who lavored PRIC, or the head
of the Supreme Court to be the provisional president if a government were
to be established on Cuban soil. Dr. MIRC declared that the revolution
is a fact, and that practically nobody wants to go back to any former
regime. The people in Cuba would resist any such possibility. He do.

6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

nounced FRIC's activities against the Council and its efforts to unify
the anti-Castro elements. Fie said that the people should be given an
opportunity to elect thoir chief of state after Castro's overthrow and
reestablishment of order in the island.

## 13. Offices of Council (Consejo Revolucionario)

When questioned about his business and private telephones.. MIRO said, "The business phone is also in my house. I have no office except in my house, but that phone is always busy (Jefferson 2-4680). So use the other phone (JE(forson 4-2751) when you wish to call me. "

"I need to have a small office somewhere away from my home because all the activities there are driving my wife crazy. I want to find something modest so that no accusation can be inade of ostentation - merely a room for myself, one for my secretary, and one for meetings of the Council, atc. The FRD had a place but at that place also was the press, the refugee center, etc. it would not be satisfactory. The FRD is now practically dead. It was the forerunner of the Consojo as the unifying agency of the anti-Castro resistance,"

## 14. MIRO's. Views on Coordinating the Activities of Other Exilo. Groups

After Dr. MIRC reiterated his view that he should be the channel for funds and coordinating the activities of groups outside the Consejo such as the Studente, FORD (Labor), etc., I said that I under- stood that some of those elements were unwilling to function under the Consejo; and that in view of that situation, did he consider that an. Activity Committee might be organized with a delegato from each of these groupe and under the chairmanship of a member of the Consejo. This would serve to coordinate their activities, give them a tie-in with the Consejo, yet not make them subservient to it. Dr. MIRC replied that this would merely set up another Consejo outside of and parallel to the existing Consejo. I did not pursue this further, not having enough background of these organizations to be able to discuss the matter effectively.

## 15. Telephone Conversation with MIRO on 7 October

Before my departure from Miami for Washington on 7 October, I telephaned to Dr. MIRO (rom the airport. He appreciated the call and asked if I had seen in the morning paper the action taken yesterday by

7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

the ALABAU Lawyers' group in proclaiming Julio CARCERAN (one of the chief justices in exile) as "President of Cuba at War." He expressed his indignation at this unilateral "political" move by ALADAU and his adherents among the exiled lawyers and judges. He added his best wishes to me and reminded me that he would probably go to New York on October 11th or 12th for the SIP (Sociedad Interamericana de Pronsa) meeting. I replied that I would appreciate if he would contact Clark after his arrival to give his location in New York City, and that Clark might have a request from me for an appointment with him, if this seemed desirable. I suggested that in future phone conversations I would be known as JUANITO. He agreed with pleasure that this would be a good procedure. I wished him Godspeed and he replied likewise to me.

16. Comment

During those first two meetings I endeavored to establish myself favorably with Dr. MIKO and therefore refrained from bringing up details of budget or opposition to any of his specific proposals. I listened, asked various questions, and he talked at length.

In future meetings, after I have gained further background and have more policy guidance, I shall be able to discuss with him specific issues and endeavor to reach agreements or compromises, as may be required.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)