# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

de Verna

INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CO-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY El Salvador

SUBJECT Report on Conditions of the Country Submitted by a Special Representative of the Cuban National Revolutionary Council

REPORT NO: 00-A-3228565

DATE DISTR. 28 June 1962

NO. PAGES 1

DATE OF INFO. 7 Jun 62

PLACE & DATE ACQ. San Salvador - 2 May 62

REFERENCES (MIMI-4417)

c/s Rodriguez 05

SOURCE: Cuban national exiled in the US. THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION Source (DR. Jose Julio FERNANDEZ Gutierrez).

Source is [a lawyer who returned recently from a trip to the Central American countries as special representative of the Cuban Revolutionary Council.]

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

Attached

[So-Pitcho of the CIA Library is a copy of a paper in Spanish by Jose Julio Fernandez Gutierrez to Antonio de Vargas. This report, written on 2 May 62, is a full report to the Revolutionary Council of Cuba regarding general conditions in El Salvador and specifically dealing with Cubans in that country. The author of the report was sent to El Salvador for this particular purpose and spent 45 days in El Salvador and other Central American countries. Classified: CONFIDENTIAL.]

-end-

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

> [Figure: Handwritten notes including "6/28,", "Routed to T7W with suggestions then forward to area", "Removed from automatic downgrading and declassification" and "#09583"]

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

5

3

2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)