# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

CONFIDENTIAL

WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
February 25, 1963

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On February 21, 1963, a confidential informant, who has furnished reliable information in the past, advised that he had learned that Carlos Alejos, Guatemalan Ambassador to the United States, had contacted Miguel Ydigoras-Fuentes for the purpose of advising him that Joso Miro Cardona, Prosidont of the Cuban Kevolutionary Council, an organization opposed to Fidel Castro, Cuban Prime Minister, had apologized for not keeping an appointment ho had been granted with Ydigoras-Fuontes. Cardona stated that he had been extremely impressed with what Ydigoras-Fuentes had done for Cuba and told Alejos that those individuals who had said that Ydigoras-Fuentes had to bo removed had already been expelled from Cardona's group. Ydicorns-Fuentes commented that the moeting Cardona had missed was a meeting of all important Cuban loadors who wont to Guatemala to sign an agreement. Alejos indicated that Cardona wished to see Ydigoras-Fuentos in order to relieve any misunderstanding and Ydicoras-Fuontos agreed to see Cardona anytime he would come to Guatemala. He instructed Alejos to issue Cardona a vica at his roquest.

The position of Carlos Alojos was verified through the "Diplomatic List" dated November, 1962, published by the United States Department of State.

Miguel Ydigoras-Fuentes is the President of Guatemala.

This document contains neither recomandatiens nor conclusions of It is the party of the 11 and 15 toned your aguncy: it and its contents are not to bu distributed outside your agency.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)