104-10326-10014 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Date: 01/04/00
Page: 1

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10326-10014
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJECT FILES

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : WITHHELD
TO : DIRECTOR
TITLE : WITHHELD
DATE : 02/25/98
PAGES : 3
SUBJECTS : JFK ASSASS.

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS :
CURRENT STATUS : POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/03/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : JFK-M-11:F1 1999.02.03 11:31:38:873120: CIA
CORRESPONDENCE RE ARRB

![CLASSIFIED ATTACHMENT]

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 64937 DocId:32403863 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

MHFNO: 98-0651289 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

SECRET FRP: , , , , ,

STAFF

ACTION: NE/NAOE (273) INFO: AF/EXO, AF/HG, C/NE/NAO, CIC/AF, CIC/CEG,
CIC/CEGAF, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC, LIMITED, MDSX, NE/NAOCI, NE/NAORE, NEDORECORD,
ODPD, ORMS/AF, RYBAT, FILE, AF/OPS (3/W)

98 0651289 ASR PAGE 001 IN 0651289
TOR: 251439Z FEB 98 ADDI 22385

SECRET 251436Z FEB 98 STAFF

CITE ADDIS ABABA 22385

TO: DIRECTOR, CAIRO.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM NE/NAOE INFO NE/NAORE, NE/NAOCI, AF/HG, AF/OPS, CIC/AF

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT FCSTANDARD

SUBJECT: SUMMARY OF RECENT CONTACTS WITH FCSTANDARD/32

REF: A. DIRECTOR 699262 98 0626779
B. CAIRO 85035 98 0176920

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLS SEE PARA 2.

2. REF A WAS USEFUL AND MUCH APPRECIATED. WITH CAIRO STATION'S
   CONCURRENCE, C/O TONY P. RAGL WOULD LIKE REF A OFFER OF BACKGROUND
   INFO ON SUDAN, AND HOS TALKING POINTS ON OTHER TOPICS TO SUPPORT
   DEVELOPMENT OF SUBJ. C/O WILL PROVIDE ASSESSMENT OF FCSTANDARD/32
   (SUBJ) SEPARATELY. C/O AND SUBJ HAVE BEGUN DISCUSSING SUDAN AND
   LIBYA, AND SUBJ HAS BEGUN VISITING C/O'S RESIDENCE (REPORTED
   SEPARATELY). PLS ENSURE REF B IS FILED IN SUBJ'S FILE (IT WAS
   INADVERTENTLY FILED AS FCSTANDARD/1).

3. 12 FEBRUARY: SUBJ PHONED C/O AT HOME AND, WITHOUT
   MENTIONING NAMES OR PLACES, RECOMMENDED A MEETING. C/O MET SUBJ FROM
   2330-0200 HOURS AT CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB. SUBJ WAS NOT SURE IF A SAUDI
   INTEL OFFICER WAS POSTED TO ADDIS. SUBJ ASKED IF C/O LEARNED
   ANYTHING ABOUT A VISITING RUSSIAN DELEGATION (C/O HAD NOT, SEE PARA
   5). SUBJ SPOKE OF JOGGING ON LOCAL STREETS AND C/O GAVE HIM A CAN OF
   PEPPER SPRAY TO WARD OFF STRAY DOGS.

4. 16 FEBRUARY: U.S. EMBASSY RECEPTION: C/O INVITED SUBJ TO
   U.S. EMBASSY'S NATIONAL DAY RECEPTION (MOVED FROM 4 JULY TO 16 FEB
   DUE TO HEAVY LOCAL RAINS IN JULY). SUBJ POINTED OUT ISRAELI SECOND
   SECRETARY RAMI ((HATAN)), ADDING HATAN HAD RECENTLY ARRIVED IN ADDIS
   AND SUBJ THOUGHT HATAN WAS SHIN BET AND WORKED WITH ISRAELI SECOND
   SECRETARY ELIEZER "ELI" ((YITZHAKY)).

5. 19 FEBRUARY: SUBJ PHONED C/O AT EMBASSY, SUGGESTED MEETING

SECRET

NW 64937 Docld:32403863 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

MHFNO: 98-0651289 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 2

AT CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB (0030-0330). SUBJ PAID FOR DRINKS. HIS SPOUSE
MAY RETURN TO ADDIS CIRCA EARLY MAY. SUBJ SAID HE WAS DISTANCING
HIMSELF FROM EGYPTIAN BUSINESSMAN SAFAH (PHONETIC) AND ADDED, "BEFORE
I LEAVE ADDIS, I HAVE A LOT TO TELL YOU. I'LL TELL YOU WHEN THE
STORY IS FINISHED. A LOT GOES ON HERE." SUBJ MENTIONED ISRAELI
TRADE FAIR AT SHERATON HOTEL 25-26 FEBRUARY (THE EGYPTIAN ECONOMIC
COUNSELOR WAS INVITED). REGARDING RAMI HATAN, SUBJ SAID HE WAS AWARE
HATAN WAS SINGLE, LIVED IN BOLE AREA, WAS A FIRST TOUR OFFICER. THE
RUSSIAN DELEGATION (PARA 3) WAS HERE FOR ETHIOPIAN TANK (T-55)
REFURBISHMENT; RECENT ISRAELI DELEGATION WAS HERE TO BID ON T-55 AND
AIRCRAFT REFURBISHMENT (CORROBORATED BY 2/00/1607-98, 191934Z FEB 98;
AND 2/00/1584-98, 191609Z FEB 98). SIX OROMO OPPOSITIONISTS WERE
EXTRADITED FROM DJIBOUTI TO ETHIOPIA. FOREIGN MINISTER MOUSSA IS
VISITING ADDIS WEEK OF 23 FEBRUARY; HE IS A WOMANIZER AND MAY VISIT
CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB. HE HAS THREE BODYGUARDS, BUT THEY ARE NOT
"PROFESSIONALS." SUBJ PAID EQUIVALENT US$ 60 TO BLOOD TEST LOCAL
GIRLFRIEND HELEN, "SHE'S ALL RIGHT." REGARDING SALARY, SUBJ IS PAID
"PRETTY WELL" AND WORKS HARD TO "EARN THE PAY." UPON PARTING, SUBJ
SAID, "SLEEP WELL, I WON'T SAY HAVE NICE DREAMS BECAUSE WE (I.E.,
INTEL OFFICERS) DO NOT HAVE NICE DREAMS."

6. 20 FEBRUARY: LATE DINNER WITH SUBJ AT LION CLUB, THEN
   CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB. TWO BUSINESSMEN (A SAUDI NAMED SALAH LNU WHO
   DEPARTS ADDIS WEEK 23 FEBRUARY, AND A JORDANIAN NAMED MAHMOUD LNU,
   BOTH CONCORDE REGULARS) JOINED SUBJ AND C/O. BUSINESSMEN SPOKE OF
   EXPORTING ETHIOPIAN CATTLE TO SAUDI ARABIA, ALSO SPOKE OF HORSES AND
   CAMELS. SUBJ'S EMBASSY OFFICE IS BEING REMODELED BY AN ETHIOPIAN
   INTERIOR DESIGNER, A SUBORDINATE WATCHES THE DESIGNER AT ALL TIMES.
   SUBJ WILL HAVE C/O OVER TO THE OFFICE ONCE IT IS FINISHED. SUBJ WILL
   BE BUSY WEEK OF 23 FEBRUARY DUE TO VISIT OF MOUSSA.

7. 21 FEBRUARY: C/O VISITED SUBJ'S HOME AND OFFICE (WHICH WAS
   BEING PAINTED; HAD ONLY CHAIRS AND A BOOKCASE; MAHMOUD LNU, AN
   EGYPTIAN, SUPERVISED ETHIOPIAN PAINTER). IN SUBJ'S LIVING ROOM WERE
   MEMENTOS FROM THE U.S. MARINE CORPS BALL (AMERICAN FLAG PLACE
   SETTINGS, CHAMPAGNE FLUTES). FCSTANDARD CHIEFS POSTED ABROAD HAVE
   USE OF A GOVERNMENT VEHICLE, AS DOES SUBJ. C/O APOLOGIZED FOR NOT
   PHONING, SUBJ REPLIED C/O COULD CALL AT HIS HOME ANYTIME,
   UNANNOUNCED. HE UNDERSTOOD C/O'S AVERSION TO PHONES, AND ADDED
   ETHIOPIANS TAP DIPLOMATS' OFFICE AND HOME PHONES. DURING
   CONVERSATION WITH C/O, SUBJ TURNED ON TAPE PLAYER FOR SOUND MASKING
   AND EXPLAINED HIS HOME HAD NOT YET BEEN TESTED FOR BUGS ( A SIMPLE
   TEST IS TURN OFF ALL APPLIANCES AND CHECK ELECTRIC METER; THERE IS
   ALSO A MORE SOPHISTICATED TEST). SUBJ PHONED SPOUSE IN CAIRO AND HAD
   C/O SPEAK WITH HER. SUBJ GAVE C/O TWO SMALL GIFTS (MARBLE HEAD OF
   NEFERTITI AND PAPYRUS PAPER PAINTING). SUBJ'S BROTHER-IN-LAW (A
   POLICE MAJOR) IS NO GOOD, HE ASKS HIS FATHER-IN-LAW FOR MONEY. SAUDI
   ATTACHE WADIE A. AL-((THAGAFI)) MAY BE THE SAUDI INTEL OFFICER IN
   ADDIS, BUT SUBJ IS NOT YET SURE. ISRAEL IS NO GOOD; ISRAEL WAS
   *BEHIND THE<JFK ASSASSINATION.> SUBJ CHEATED ON HIS WIFE ONLY THREE
   TIMES (ALL IN ADDIS IN THE LAST EIGHT MONTHS; HE FEELS GUILTY BUT
   REMAINS FOND OF HIS LOCAL GIRLFRIEND HELEN, WHOM HE DOES NOT BRING
   HOME FOR FEAR HIS HOUSEHOLD HELP WOULD TELL HIS SPOUSE). OWNER OF
   CONCORDE NIGHTCLUB SMUGGLES MERCURY (NFI), HAS GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG
   ISRAELIS AND ETHIOPIAN GOVERNMENT.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

MHFNO: 98-0651289 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 3

8. 22 FEBRUARY: A LENGTHY, SUBSTANTIVE CONTACT AT C/O'S RESIDENCE WHICH WILL BE REPORTED SEPARATELY.

9. FILE: FCSTANDARD/32; 027-009-095. CL BY: 2195330. CL
   REASON: 1.5(C). DECL ON: X1. DRV HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)