# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, Task Force W

FROM:
Chief of Station, JICA.X

SUBJECT:
GYROSE/Operational-Transmittal of CAC Reports

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

EXPARENCS: UPGA 3787, 16 April 1962

ACTION: For your information

Transmitted herewith are CRA reports, numbers 134 through 149, and 156.

An Index is attached.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachments: (Herewith)
CLA-14 thru 149, 1 ea.
CLA-156 (1 copy)
CAA Index, in duplicate

Distribution:
3- TP/N, w/atts. (h/w)

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]

DATE TYPED:
16 Apr 62

DATE DESPATCHED:
APR 20 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:
UPGA-3416/3

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER:

$29-120-33

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CIA - 137

12 April 1962

545-503

Chief, Task Force/W
Chief of Station, JHHAVE

Operational/GYROGE
DRE, Santiago de Duba

ATTENTION REQUESTED: HR/KUCAGE/NTUBE. 06

1. On 9 April 1962, Jose Antonio Sadurni Sacana (aka "Che"), born 11 April 1936, Santiago de Cuba; Miami address: E/O Elisa Sadurni Casas, 06 1619 Meridian Ave., Apt. C-10] Miami Beach, telephone: JE 2-2641, was Interviewed.

2. Source said that during the revolution he was a member of the DR in the University of Habana. After the revolution he went to the University of Oriente, Santiago de Cuba, and eventually became the DRE chief for the city. In regard to his former DR association he had no operational leads, claiming that all contact with DR members terminated in 1959, and he knew no one who attained any stature in the Castro Government.

3. As DRE chief for Santiago, the source claimed that he had 50 members who he considered well organized and capable of any type of action. He said that there were, and are, other members, but he does not consider them in the same category with the 50 who are organized into cells. He said each cell has nine men. There are four cells in the University of Oriente and two in the high school.

4. He said that he left Santiago in March 1962 and turned the DRE over to his deputy. He then went to Habana and informed the DRE leader- ship that the second in command had taken over and he was told that Habana would initiate contact with the new leader. (Note: Since close relations are maintained by the JMHAVE Station and the DRE, no attempt was made to press the source for names and addresses, etc., as this in- formation can be obtained in subsequent outside debriefings. The JMHAVE Officer responsible for the DRE operational matters was informed of the source's arrival and processing.)

5. Source said that at the time he left Santiago, the remnants of the Catholic student organization was trying to make contact with the DRE and he believes that by this time this contact has been made. He said that the DRE member who was following this matter, and who would follow through, was a blind person.

6. Listing the arms and supplies in the possession of the DRE in Santiago, the source said that it has about 5-6 pounds of plastic remain- ing out of a shipment of 20 pounds which was received from the DRE in Habana. He said the DRE in Santiago placed bombs in places where the explosion would not injure anyone. As far as arms are concerned the source said that the DRE in Santiago has ten .45 caliber pistols; five 38 caliber pistols; one M-3; and one Tommy gun.

7. The source furnished the following KUTUBE-type information:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

СКА - 137
раде 2

a. He said that his father is in Jail in Puerto Boniato,
and that in order to try and get him free, the source went to see Kajor
Delarmino "Anibal" Castilla, the chief of training for the Palna Soriano
Military Encaanent, whom he knew fron their days in the Santiago High
School. Source made his plea an: "Anibal" told him that before he could
act upon it, he would have to talk to the source for five hours in order
to determine his political orientation. The source replied that he did
not come to talk politics but to picad for his father. "Anibal"
answered that he would think about it and call the cource one vay or
another, but he never called. Source thought that this story adequate-
ly demonstrated the (Corrmmist) political orientation of "Anibal."

b. The brother of "Anibal" (pera 6a above) is "Bertico"
Castilla, first name possibly Alberto. He resigned from the army and
is now living in Santiago, but the source is not clear on "Bertico's"
political orientation.

c. Electra Fernandes, the wife of Mendez Coninche (the
Santiago G-2 chief), is no longer the civil head (comissionado) of
Santiago. She is now the president of the Federacion de Mujeres Cubanas..

d. The source has given a complete military nap of Oriente
Province to the DRE member he left in charge of Santiago DIKE (see para 4
above). Information is passed from Santiago to the DIE in Habena and
the latter, in turn, is to forward the information to the States.

e. Source said that his contacts who work in Ricaro report
that the Nicaro-Mayari Arriba area is restricted and thet unknown types
of military installations are being constructed.

f. The foreign instructors in the University of Oriente con-
sist of Czechs and Chileans. The Czechs have started a new medical
school in the university and the Chileans have taken over the Business
Administration Courses.

![signature]Nelson L. RAYTMOCK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET.

ATTACHMENT TO: UPCA-3846 Dated 16 April 62

CKA 134: Arturo *Ines* Rodriguest A 12 895 717 (SEE UFCA - 3846)

CKA 135: Jorge *Pastorroll* Comes: A 12 895 206 (SEE UFCA - 3846/1)

CKA 136: Omelio Julian *Garcia* Consales: A 12 895 617 (SEE UFCA - 3846/2)

CKA 137: Jose Antonio *Sadumi* Casas: A 12 875 903 (SEE UFCA - 3846/3)

CKA 138: Raul Sanchez Rodriguess A 12 895 974 (SEE UFCA - 3846/4)

CKA 139: Justino Pelayo Buncio Peres Pogueres: A 12 835 872 (SEE UFCA-3846/5)

CKA 140: Ramon Alonso: A 12 895 841 (SEE UFCA - 3846/6).

CKA 141: Emilio Alejandro Arrasate: A 12 895 866 (SEE UFCA - 3846/7)

CXA 142: Hector de la Pananals Puentest: A 12 490 361 (SEE UFCA - 3846/8)

CXA 143: Manuel Oloda-Castillo: A 12 895 646 (SEE UFCA-3846/9

CXA 144: Benigno *Soriano*-Hernandes: A 12 695 840 (SEE UFCA - 3846/10)

CLA 145: Antonio Tomas *Gonzalez* Crespo: A 12 895 929 (SEE UFCA - 3846/11)

CKA 146: Alejandro Profirio *Camacho* Gonzales: A 12 895 939 (SEE UFCA - 3846/12)

CKA 147: Joaquin Antonio *Jimenez* Jimenos: A 12 895 933 (SEE UFCA - 3846/13)

CKA 148: Antonio C. *Samper* Harrero: A 12 903 024 (SEE UFCA - 3846/14)

CKA 149: Donald *Arrowsmith* Boulets: A 12 903 013 (SEE UFCA - 3846/15)

CKA 156: Alberto Hernantes Dolst A 12 895 949 (SEE UFCA - 3846/16)

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)