# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 95-0906823
SENSIND: EO RYBAT

E-O.

CONF: EA/TIB INFO: LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, DDO (2/P)

95 0906823 ASR PAGE 001 PAGE: 1
TOT: 292123Z JUN 95 DIRECTOR 343286

SECRET
STAFF

TO: BANGKOK, RANGOON, PHNOM PENH, CHIANG MAI.

FROM: LIMIT C/EA/TIB

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: EYES ONLY - COS - WEEKLY HIGHLIGHTS

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: BANGKOK: PLS HOLD FOR COS/HANOI'S PERUSAL THE NEXT TIME HE STOPS AT STATION.

2. DEAR ALL, FOLLOWING ARE THE MAIN HIGHLIGHTS OF THE 28 JUN DO MEETING AS PRESENTED BY DCEA/SEA-(CEA-OCCUPIED FOR PART OF THE TIME WITH ANOTHER MEETING) AT THE 29 JUN EA STAFF MEETING:

- IT WAS ANNOUNCED THAT IF YOU HAVE CHILDREN AND WOULD LIKE TO GET THEM REGISTERED IN THE AGENCY'S NURSERY, YOU SHOULD APPLY AS SOON AS POSSIBLE FOR THE OPENINGS THAT WILL COME AVAILABLE THIS SEPT.

- ADDO MET 30 MEMBERS OF THE PRESS FOR A BACKGROUNDER NEWS CONFERENCE. CNN, ABC, AND ALL THE OTHER BIG MEDIA REPS ATTENDED. PER ADDO, THE BRIEFINGS WENT QUITE WELL. AT ONE POINT, SOMEONE MENTIONED THEY WOULD LIKE TO SAY SOMETHING "OFF THE RECORD," AND THIS CAUSED SOME COMPLAINTS FROM THE PRESS. HOWEVER, ON THE WHOLE, THIS NEW SYSTEM OF HAVING THE DO INTERFACE WITH THE PRESS IS SAID TO HAVE GONE QUITE WELL. THE DCI IS ALSO PREPARING A BACKGROUND FOR THE "NEW YORK TIMES" (NFI).

- THE ADDO MET WITH TOM DONILAN (THE SECRETARY OF STATE'S CHIEF OF STAFF) TO DISCUSS ISSUES OF CONCERN TO THE SECRETARY. THIS IS PART OF A NEW SYSTEM INTENDED TO HAVE THE DO GET BRIEFINGS ON WHAT SPECIFIC MATTERS HIGH LEVEL CABINET MEMEBERS ARE INTERESTED.

- THE EXDIR IS STARTING A HUMAN RESOURCES OVERSIGHT COUNSEL TO BE CHAIRED BY BETSY GRAVES. THE COUNSEL WILL HOLD ITS FIRST MEETING NEXT THURSDAY. THE GROUP'S PURPOSE WILL BE TO REVIEW THE-AGENCY-S-PROCEDURES FOR HANDLING PERSONNEL MATTERS- (TRAINING, PROMOTIONS, ETC.) FROM_CRADLE TO GRAVE, I.E., EOD TO
  SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-0906823 SENSIND: EO RYBAT PAGE: 2

RETIREMENT, AND THE DIVERSITY ISSUE WILL BE ANOTHER MAJOR CONCERN OF THE GROUP.

- A NEW STRATEGIC BUDGET PLANNING GROUP IS BEING CREATED. IT WILL BE LED BY ERIC QUACKENBUSH AND JOE DETRANI.

- PRESIDENT BUSH'S 27 JUN VISIT TO HQS WENT QUITE WELL, IN THE DCI'S ESTIMATION. • THE DCI ADVISED THAT THE BRIEFINGS BY DO PERSONNEL WERE RIGHT ON THE MONEY AND VERY WELL RECEIVED, ESPECIALLY THE CHINA BRIEFING BY ADCEA/CO.

- THE ADDO WILL ATTEND A COVERT ACTION HEARING AT THE SSCI ON 14 JULY. ON THAT SAME DAY, THE PRESIDENT AND FIRST LADY WILL VISIT THE AGENCY.

- GEORGE TENET HAS BEEN CONFIRMED AS THE DDCI AND WILL ARRIVE ON MONDAY, 3 JULY. ADMIRAL STUDEMAN WILL REMAIN WITH THE AGENCY FOR A FEW MONTHS OVERLAP.

- A HONDURAN TASK FORCE-HAS BEEN CREATED TO FULFILL THE SAME FUNCTION AS THE GUATEMALA TF.

- AN EFFORT IS BEGINNING TO DECLASSIFY ALL *DOCUMENTS RELATED TO THE<JFK ASSASSINATION.> RELEASED DOCUMENTS WILL NOT INCLUDE ANY INFO DEALING WITH THIRD COUNTRY LIAISON RELATIONSHIPS OR ABOUT AGENT ASSETS. HOWEVER, ALL ELSE WILL BE RELEASED.

- THE IG SEMI-ANNUALS ARE ABOUT TO BEGIN (NFI).

- DDA AND DDO WILL BEGIN HAVING BREAKFAST MEETINGS TO HOLD DISCUSSIONS ON "CONNECTIVITY" (E-MAIL AND OTHER COMMUNICATION) BETWEEN HQS AND FIELD STATIONS.

-RE MEALS: EXECUTIVE DINING ROOM #2 WILL SOON CLOSE, AND IT MAY BE RE-ESTABLISHED SOMEWHERE ELSE IN THE HQS BUILDING. DINING ROOM #1 WILL REMAIN FOR USE WITH LIAISON VISITORS.

- FRANK ROCCO (DDA) IS RETIRING. AS PART OF HIS RETIREMENT PROCESS, HE WILL WORK FOR ABOUT TWO MONTHS HELPING ESTABLISH OF THE NATIONAL IMAGERY AGENCY AND THEN SPEND ABOUT ONE MONTH IN THE TRANSITION PROGRAM. AT THE DO STAFF MEETING, ADDO FORMALLY BID ADIEU TO LA DIVISION OFFICER BILL DEVINE, WHO IS ALSO RETIRING.

3. TOWARDS THE END OF THE EA STAFF MEETING, CEA JOINED THE GROUP; AND, AT THE CONCLUSION OF DCEA/SEA'S BRIEFING PRESENTED AN EA PLAQUE TO IDEN REPORTS (AND SOMETIMES FRONT OFFICE) SECRETARY FOR HER SEVERAL YEARS OF OUTSTANDING SERVICE TO THE DIVISION, FIRST AS EA/J SECRETARY AND THEN IN REPORTS. SHE IS MOVING INTO AN AGENCY JOB AT AN OUTLYING OFFICE MUCH CLOSER TO HER RESIDENCE.

4. FYI, THIS WAS YOURS TRULY'S LAST EA STAFF MEETING AS I WILL BE ENTERING THE 90-DAY RETIREMENT TRANSITION PROGRAM.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

MHFNO 95-0906823 SENSIND: EO RYBAT PAGE: 3

STARTING 3 JULY AND WITH AN ACTUAL RETIREMENT DATE SET FOR 30 SEP.
WINFIELD-WI-LL-BE-AC/EA/TIB UNTIL THE DIVISION PMAP SOON DECIDES ON
THE NEXT BRANCH CHIEF. HE IS A LEADING CANDIDATE FOR THE
POSITION. FINAL WORD SHOULD BE OUT TO YOU ALL BY EARLY JULY. IN
ANY EVENT, IT HAS BEEN VERY SATISFYING WORKING WITH YOU ALL OUT
THERE VICARIOUSLY (UNFORTUNATELY) FOR THE MOST PART THOUGH I DID
GET TO MEET AND RENEW ACQUAINTANCES WITH THE COS'S AND SOME OF THE
CAO'S DURING YOUR TRIPS BACK HERE. THE WORK YOU ALL ARE DOING IS
TERRIFIC AND BEING ACCOMPLISHED UNDER VERY DIFFICULT CONDITIONS.
IT WAS GREAT BEING INVOLVED WITH YOUR EFFORTS AND I HOPE OUR
SUPPORT HAS BEEN UP TO YOUR EXPECTATIONS. I AM SURE THAT THE VERY
SOLID OPERATIONS YOU ALREADY HAVE IN TRAIN WILL CONTINUE TO
SUCCEED; AND, BASED ON THE OBVIOUSLY HIGH MOTIVATION BY ALL OF YOU
OUT THERE, I AM SURE YOU WILL ALL BE ACCOMPLISHING MANY OTHER GOOD
THINGS FOR THE ORGANIZATION AND THE COUNTRY. I WISH YOU THE BEST
IN YOUR ENDEAVORS AND YOU CAN COUNT ON THE FACT THAT I WILL STILL
BE CHEERING FOR ALL OF YOU AND THE AGENCY FROM THE RETIREMENT SIDE
LINES. GOOD LUCK, EMERSON.

5. FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>

RELNO: E202312
ORIG: EA/TIB (KUSTRRJ, 39874); COORD: DC/EA/TIB (AHR); REL:
C/EA/TIB (KUSTRA)-CL BY_498.5.19
END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)