104-10072-10228

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.

2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

If file no. and title shown are not proper, Insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

TO

ROOM

DATE

OFFICER'S

INITIALS

1. 
WH/COG/REG.

2. 
#897

30 8967

-RYBAT/SECRET

3. 
4. 
5. 
WH/RR

WH/COG/CIC'S

E. SEDECIN

BT

# Nov 12 Nov

1967 1967

6N 23

182

U/s/kalladed

8. 
OCT

9. 
CIP/AN.

plus ideby

RYBAT/SECRET

11. 
12. 
The foll

13

Si

Desent

D. Vitab

M

AB

IT

F

BX

DES CED

FI

![photo of aperture corrections]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000

FROM:

RD/

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

TO

1. 
WH/COG/REG.

2. 
![photo of illegible handwriting]

4. 
![photo of illegible handwriting]

5. 
WW/LRR
WH/COG/CIC'S
E. SECECIN

![photo of illegible signature]

![photo of illegible handwriting]

9. 
![photo of handwriting] CIA/AM.

![photo of illegible handwriting]

![photo of illegible handwriting] 11.

12

13

14. 
15. 
16. 
![photo of illegible handwriting]

17. 
TRACE REQUEST

DATE MICROFILMED

![photo of illegible handwriting]

![photo of illegible handwriting]

1-RYBAT/SECRET

U/s/c alladed

![table of distribution list]

RYBAT/SECRET

![photo of handwriting] Desen 88
Q. Utab
VHCoy
Coordinate

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UNDA 03263

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, SAS

INFO: Chief of Base, Merida
Chief of Station, WAVE; Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Contact Report/LITAMIL-901

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

PERUMEN

Attached, for addresses, are copies of Subject contact reports dated 11 May, 14 May, and 15 May 1963.

![signature of Willard C Curtis]

Willard C CURTIS

Attachment:

As stated above

Distribution:

2 - C/SAS, w/att

2 - C/WHD, w/att

2 - COS, WAVE, w/att

2 - COB, Merida, w/att

3 - Files

CS COPY

INDEX 56-6-105/3

DATE TYPED: 21 May 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: ΗΜΜΑ 21403

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: P-6079


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# LITAMIL

(P

On the night of 10 May 63, I met LITAMIL-9 be usual rendezvous point and we drove to outlying district of city where debriefing took place. NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED.

Time: 2130-2245.

1.  (LITAMIL-9) reported as follows:

    RR/255 Spy

    Manuel VEGA Perez, Cuban G-2 Mexico, told (I-9) that he had been with Dolore LA MORA Canada and that DE LA MORA asked for I-9. I-9, of course, will take advantage of VEGA remark to make con- with DE LA MORA. (I-9) commented that fact VEGA was with DE LA MORA is interesting. It will be recalled that "Conchit a" FERNANDEZ told (I-9) to be careful with DE LA MORA because she is a contact of CLERGE Fabra, Cuban G-2 type.

2.  I-9 reported that on 9 May 63, while near the Cine Diana at IXEX at 10:30, he saw Ramon LOBAS Casado waiting for someone. BIOBAS saw (I-9) and waved at him. (This was KUBARK meeting) (I-9) commented that HINORAS was definitely waiting to make a contact with someone.

3.  Francisco MAIZ Alberdi, Spanish/Cuban, who formerly tended the cafe at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, returned to Mexico on 10 May 63, this time assigned to the Embassy as "Auxiliar de Segunda Clase"

    (LIFIRE Airlifts show MAIZ and his wife returned via Cubana on 10 May 63). (I-9) said that MAIZ' wife is suffering from cancer, that she was operated on in Habana but there is no hope.

4.  I-9 reported that on 9 May 63, Ramon LOBAS Casado, Cuban Charge, met with students (about 6) from Chapingo. The meeting took place at 1700 at the Embassy.

5.  Foo. MAIZ told (I-9) that EXXXX Hector GALLO Portieles, Cuban Charge in Bolivia, went back to Habana recently for what he thought was short stay, i.e. two weeks, but he is still there. GALLO was assigned to study "instruccion politica y revolucionaria"

6.  MAIZ also told (I-9) that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, formerly in Mexico reportedly received a scholarship. It is not known what kind for where.

7.  MAIZ told (I-9) that Heberto JORRIN was expected to return to Mexico on 13 May 63. MAIZ said that Antonio GARCIA Lara was expected to return to Mexico shortly.

SECRET P-6079


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

(1-8) said that he had the duty (security) all day Saturday, on 11 May 63. (L-9) said that Jose LLAGOSTERA is taking the day off and will not return until about 2200 this evening. I told (2-9) to report any similar info particularly re Armando SARDIFAS and others who live at the Embassy.

9. MAIZ told (1-9) that Eusebio AZCUE was expected back in a week or so. MAIZ said that his wife would return after him. He added that Sra de. AZCUE is anxious to return to Mexico.

10. (1-9) finally identified Jose HERNANDEZ Roa as the person who in working with Buenaventura REYES Acosta and Ramon BORES.

(L-7) reported this previously) (1-9) said he asked FERNANDEZ if he was related to the Foreign Minister and FERNANDEZ didn't say yes or no. (L-9) believes that he might be bodyase ho doan't seem very sharp and yet he's hanging around with SINOBAS and BHENAVENTURA. FERNANDEZ told (L*7) who asked him about his relationship with ROA, that if he was related to ROA it was a distant relationship.

11. Coty SOLORZANO, sister in law of Gral. Lazaro CARDENAS is scheduled to leave for Habana on 13 May 63.

12. L-9 said he attend a meeting at the Academia Mexicana de Derecho Internacional on 8 May 63 and the Mexican Amb to Israel spoke re non-intervention and autodeterminación. (L-9) said the speech was typical of Mexican govt policy re Cuba.

13. (L-9) said that he saw Rafael PEDROSA Perez and Antonio ARRUZA on at the Embassy on 9 May 63. THEY were in session with Ramon SINOPAS. PEDROSA, the mulatto type, told L-9 at the inaugural session of the Microonda Seminar that "it was necessary for him to make a lot of contacts in Mexico". It was he who also told (L-9) that he was in contact with Raul ROA, i.e. "Estoy en contart con ROA". (L-9) said that on 9 May at the Embassy, PEDROZA was sick, i.c. pale green, bad breath etc. L told (L-9) to make contact with PEDROZA and ARRUZA if possible and size them up. He said it would be difficult because he has no reason to see thom. He merely attended the inaugural session of the Seminar. (L-9) however, did identify both men from LIERODE take which I showed him on this date.

SECRET

FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

14-00000

MORIM, according to (L-9), was a

suggested that a ltr to be written to her asking her to come
embassy at which time the CO could interview her. He said that
was told at the embassy that it would take about a month to
et clearance etc, that she had to be investigated. L-9 points
out that Embassy request she report for interview would appear
to past this investigation.

15. L-9 brought a contract to the meeting re his brother's company
    and Nestle. He pointed out that the contact was signed on 7 March
    and he left for Habana on 4 March. Because he was not present, his
    name did not appear in the AKMENEE contract and he was unhappy that
    this had to be. L-9, however, diplomatically and politely pointed
    out that he want to bring this to my attention to show that this
    had been a sacrifice on his part, i.e. his travel to Habana on my
    behalf. I asked L-9 whether this meant anything to him in dollars
    and cents and he said it did not. He said the only thing was that
    if his name appeared as the Administratorof the company when the
    contract was signed with (Nestle) it would give him a feeling of accom-
    plishment and security re his future relationship with the company.

16. L-9 identified the following from (LIERODE photos):

Emidio VEGA no 201
Antonio ARRUZZA no 201
Rafael PEDROZA Perez no 201

17. L-7 reported that the Gabino FERNANDEZ who was invited to and
    attended the Cuban Embassy coctail on 19 Apr 63, is married to
    Cuban woman and has been to Cuba several times. L-9 said that
    FEDERICO FERNANDEZ has a home near Acapulco, where Eusebio ASSUR
    has stayed on occasions.

SECRET FILE: LIREUIL-9

FOR REDACTION IS POST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED

10/7/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

14-00000

Sabado de guardia todo el
Mier. Domingo con Sinobas
Maria a las 11 g.m. "Los Vivea
Row Coyoacan.

Joyeria probablemente
Ferreira Lunes 13

Licue
Embajador

Ros-Embajada

Coty Solórzano Lunes 13
a la Habana.

Llegar Miercoles familia
Comen Abaacal etc.

Miercoles 8 Academia Mex.
en Derecho Internacional

ADVERTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Embajada americana Jones q
Urta, Morin, solicito visn.

M. Dolores de la Mora-Vega

Sinobas, Jueves a las 10.30
A.m. junto cine Diana

Llegó Maiz hoy Viernes 10.
adscripto a la Emb. Mex.
auxiliar de segunda clase.

Sinoban, Jueves a las 5 pom
recibió estudiantes Chapin-
80.

Galio, estudiando en Habanm
"instrucción política y re-
volucionaria", crayó que
estaría en Cuba solo 15 dia

Rogelio, becado 8

![arrow pointing right]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

On 19 May 63, I met LITAMAt the youa, rendezvous point and we drove to outlying district of the town, where we held meeting, THOR ECURITY PROBLEMS HOPID. Timer 2230-
tiont

(LITA MIL-9) provided the following informa

FranciscoΛΙΖ Α told (L-9) that Euro FARIAS, former upotaire said at the Cuban Embassy, and now employed by the PORTUONDOS in Oriente (Anh Jose PORTUGUDO) 16 pot used to Rexiona

he is expected to arrive from one day to the next. According to MAIZ, FARIAS was "sacking in" with anybody who came along, and has even become friendly with counterreves. In view of the above, FARIAS in being "bounced". AIZ said the Cubane plan to conduct a full body search of FAR IAS when she leaves Cuba, 1.0. КЕНИНDEX "en queros". (1-9)pointed out that FARIAS 19 a Mexican and if it true what MIZ reporting about body search etal it would be good for PP play in Mexico

2. L-9) reported that Andrea ARMONA io in Tonnic333036-201 Jose FERVANDE ROA, newly arrived Cuban dip. told 1-9 that ho came to Meriod in 1959 with a group of yourg people on "official"FERNANDEZ said that Amb MASSIP was in Mexico at that time. 1-7 reported the this is PERNANDEZ first oversens posti

Heberto JORRIN is oxpected to return on 14 May 65.

5. 149 reported that ovisi ARA, the ice Congul in Verarru 18 ουίτα πλες with "turistas", 1.e. amoebas. ile apparently han had this probada Ovda.

6. Ramon STHORAS, Cuban Charce, told L-9) that his baby world about a week old when the new Ambassador arrived and that this wonld be fine because he wanted to return to Cuba and see kiso father who has returned to Habans from Paris (Ramon SINGBAS col Olmo). SINOBAS' wife gave birth to baby boy

7. Maruel VEGA Perez told L-9) that the new And Joaquin HERNANDES de Arras "ilerara a mas tarder en diez dias"

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

On 19 May 63, Soviet Counselor, drove to the Cuban Embassy from Coyoacan. DUNIN, who in L-9's opinion is extremely "sharp", "realistic" and "talented" told L-9 the following:

a. The Cuban Rev is now consolidated as the recent trip of Fidel CASTRO to Moscow proves. DUNIN said that CASTRO's absence in Cuba did not affect the regime; that things went on the same in his absence etc. DUNIN, however, said that this does not mean that Cuba does not need CASTRO. He said that Cuba is not like the Soviet Union where the loss of KRUSCHEV would not affect the regime. Cubans need CASTRO and he must be protected to avoid an assassination attempt etc.

b. (L-9) asked DUNIN about the "tapado" and DUNIN answered that at this time, in his opinion, not even President LOPEZ M., knows who is going to be the candidate.

c. DUNIN stated that a revolution in Mexico similar to that in Cuba would be very difficult. He attributed this to the fact that the masses in Mexico do not have the "debida properacion politica" required for such a revolution. He said that it will take one or two generations before Mexico is ready for such a revolution.

9. L-9 said that Eusebio AZCUE Lopos, Cuban Consul, is expected back on 17 May.63.

10. L-9 said that while he was in Habana he asked that 5 copies of Bohemia he sent to the Embassy. He said that 10 copies are arriving each week since his return to Mexico. He said very little propaganda is coming.

11. L-9 said that he saw Rafael PEDROSA and Antonio ABRUZA at the Embassy but he did not have a chance to talk with them. He said they quickly slipped into SINORAS' office.

SECRET

CKS

FROM APERTUAR DARD SUBMITTED

5/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Lama, ciudadana traxicana, (doméstica de Portuondo)

Armona, en Tampico

Roa, vino como Oficial en época de Vassip

mañana Martes 14 llega Jorrin

probablemente en un mes Binobas coincidirá en Habana con su padre procedente de Paris

Vega, "De Armas llegard a más tardar en dies dica


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

14-00000

Dunin. "La Revolución está tan consolidada, que la momentanea ausencia de Piddel, no ha trastornado la buena marcha de las cosas en Cuba. Esto no quiere decir que Fidel no séa indispensable."

Dunin. "Yo creo que en este momento ni el mismo Presidente sabe quien va a ser el candidato" (elecciones en México).

Dunin. "Difícil en México una revolución estilo Cuba, no existe para ello en la masa la debida preparación política"ePo requiere por lo menos una o dos generaciones

![CAND SUBMITTED]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

(LITAMIL-9)

On 14 May 63, I met LITAMIL-9 at usual rendezvous point and we drove to outlying area to hold meeting.

NO SECURITY PROBLEMS NOTED. Time: 2200-2300

(LITA MIL-9) provided the following info:

1. L-9 had dinner at the Embassy on 14 May and he identified Emigdio VEGA Calero as a TDYer.

2. L-9 said that Emmanuel CARPALLO told him that "Chiquia" ARSANE DI (sic) employed by the Casa de las American is coming to Mexico soon for a couple of weeks. SARSALENSI, Imu, Subject's father lives in Mexico and according to CARPALLO, was disappointed that his daughter was not going to stay in Mexico. Subject's mother is living in Miami.

3. (L-9) reported that Seydon DIALLO, Guinean Amb/arrived on Cubana on 14 May 63 and he saw to it that DIALLO had no problems at the airport. DIALLO is the Guinean Amb to the U.N. also. DIALLO told (L-9) that Carlos LECHUGA, Cuban Amb to the U.N. was highly respected by all members of the U.N., including the U.B. He said that LECHUCA knew how to handle himself in the (COMMENT BY SEYDON DIALLO, GUINEAN AMB TO UN. COMMENT MAY BE) very complicated U.N. maneuvers. DIALLO said that Raul THERESE and LECHUGA make a good team (L-9) said that DIALLO is very much pro-CASTRO and undoubtedly a member of the pro-CASTRO U.N. clique. DIALLO told L-9 that he has known Vicente LO PARDO Falconing for many years.

4. (L-9) identified the following LIRODE photos:

> [Figure: LIKRODE photo of Marcial MARTINEZ (COLORED)]
> Description: A colored photograph of Marcial MARTINEZ.

> [Figure: LIKRODE photo of Rafael PERROSA Arandia]
> Description: A photograph of Rafael PERROSA Arandia.

L-9 said he saw MARTINEZ in Havana recently.

TDyer for conference on microwaves.

L-9 also identified Jose FERNANDEZ Ron in LIFIRE photo at Soviet Embassy press "fiesta" recently.

5. (L-9) said that Manuel VEGA Peres told Rafael PETROSA Arandia and Antonio ARRUZA Mon that she should not leave any docs or papers at their hotel room. In fact, both men left immediately to get papers from their room. (L-9) believes they are staying at the Hotel Agnes.

SECRET

FILE: (LITAMIL-9)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)