2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE NUMBER/VOLUME: NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY
(WEST GERMAN) & ITS ACTION GROUP
HITLER WELLE.

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:


| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 19 SEPT 78    |               | PHOEBE ERR               | Phoebe Orr                      |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |


NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

![NPD]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# NPD

National emokratische Partel Deutschlands National Democratic Party of Germany)

Combined Deutsche Rechtspartei, Deutsche Reichspartei, the split off Sozialistiche Reichspartei and the Deutsche Partei.

In August 1964 von Thaden arranged a meeting with other right-wingers to promote unification of all nationalist forces. Friedrich Thielen served as both front man and financial backer. A committee of 10 drafted a constitution which was accepted in November 1964 by representatives of the DRP, DP, GLP and the DVNP (Deutsche-National Volkspartei). The DRP officially disolved in December 1965 although the NPD had, in fact, long been the nationalist party. At the 21 l'arch 1967 meeting of the NPD Fxecutive Committee, the more moderato Thielen (former Deutsche Partei) was ousted from the NPD by the more extreme von Thaden forces (CRP).. There was no major rush to leave the NPD, however. Recent reporting hes indicated that those who did leave the PD, even including Thielen, are being invited back into the NPD.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

NEND SCOSS CARD

1. Bundestag Elections 1965 --NFD's first Effort

664,157 votes = 2$

2. 13 March 1966, communal Elections, Schleswig-
   Holstein. (NTD Has directive
   not to participate. A few did)

In 11 communities where
NTD ran candidates,.
averaged 10.5% of vote
compared with 65 in same
towns in 1965.

3. 13 March 1966, Bavarian Coramal Elections
   NFD major effort concentrated
   enly in Franconia.

1.6 % of total Bavarian
vote but:
Middle Franconia =.
Ansbach - 5.1$
Erlangen - 8.2$
Mürnberg- 7.3$
Scwhabach-5.6%
Upper Franconia
Bayreuth - 8.4$
Coburg - 5.3$
Kulmbach - 5.5%
+ 2 village mayors
  3.9% (1.8% in 1965)
  no candidates elected

4. 27 March 1966 Hamburg Burgerschaft Election

5. 10 July 1966 Northrhein-Westphalia Landtag Election
   No NFD candidates elected none entered.

6. 16 Cotober 1966 Hamlin Byelection (Communal Concil) 8.4% (165= ) 2 seats

7. 6 November 1966 Hesse Landtag Slections

221.507 votes = 7.9%+
8 Seats in Landtag
Marburg, Wiesbaden, Barnstadt
and Giessen =ca 10%
FT/M = 8.4%

7. 20 November 1966 Bavarian Landtag Elections

votes 7.4%
15 Seats in Landtag

8. 23 April 1967 Sheinland-Palatine

4 Seats, 6.9 % of vote

9. 23 April 1967 Schleswig-Holstein

4 Seats, 5.7 % of vote

10. 4 June 1967 Lower Saxony

10 Seats, 7 % of vote

11. 11 October 1967 Bremen Burgerschaft

8 Seats, 8.8 I of vote

12. 25 April 1968 Baden-Wuerttemberg

12 Seats, 9.8 1 of vote

13. 28 Sept 1969 Faderok

Suits, 4.3% of vote


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

JUNE 8. 1974

# The Hitler Boom

by Charles Lam Markmann

Heidelberg

Had he lived Adolf Hitler would have been 85 years old on April 20. And it was on this April 20 that the forces responsible for the ouster of Chancellor Willy Brandt-for things must be called by their right names-had almost finished preparing West Germany for her start on the short march back to the past. One hears everywhere "If we only had a strong man again." On the fashionable North Sea resort island of Sylt, Hitler's birthday was celebrated in the best National Socialist style by several dozen Germans, none oldest 15, and all of them arrested on charges of having circulated or displayed Nazi symbols. Young men wore brown shirts and swastika arm bands; the girls frumped themselves up in the dowdy blue skirts and white middy blouses of the Bund deutscher Mädeln (League of German Girls), the auxiliary of the Hitler Jugend. The walls of the room in which they held their party were decorated with pictures of Hitler and other National Socialist emblems for which they had scoured Schleswig-Holstein. After they had listened to records of Hitler's and other Nazi leaders' speeches and of old party march music, they drank a toast to the fuhrer.

When they were arrested, one of the young men said the party had been planned merely as "ein guter Gag." Perhaps so. But for millions of other Germans the re-creation of "the Nazi time" is serious business for some, because they want those good old days back, and for a few because they fear the others may very easily get their wish when the Federal Republic of Germany must at last put its democracy to the test. The fear is heightened by the steady and at times spectacular rise in what is called die Hitlerwelle-the Hitler wave, or Hitler boom-which has kept pace with the economic crisis, price levels and unemployment. The number of jobless has doubled since December.

It is as much a Hitler and Hitler-associated boom as a Nazi boom. This is not to say that Nazi thinking has no following in West Germany-quite the contrary, as the letters-to-the-editor columns of newspapers demonstrate. In Bavaria-Nurnberg (indeed where else?), in a 17th-century Franconian castle, a 25-man "army" of youths trains regularly, with the same steel helmets and rifles that the Wehrmacht used from 1939 to 1945. Their leader is a sign-painter named Karl-

CHARLES LAM MARKMANN, critic, translator and journalist, is at work on a book about the two German republics.

Heinz Hoitmann, whose goals are simple: the destruction of communism and big capital, the end of parliamentary rule, government by an unelected elite, the annexation of Austria (which, as the Weimar Constitution makes clear in Article 61, was also the goal of the first German "republic"), and the reunification of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic.

There is a core of some 120,000 regular readers of the National Zeitung, which for two decades has been whitewashing the Nazi era, "proving" that the only concentration and extermination camps were those built after the war by German prisoners under American orders, for propaganda purposes( there are even pictures); promoting a brisk trade in Nazi medals, uniforms weapons and other memorabilia, as well as books and recordings of speeches party congresses, narrations of military campaigns (victorious one.), and engaging in a fairly subtle anti-Semitism. There is no need for blatancy, after all the Jews were only the first and most conspicuous of Nazi targets. Twelve or so million non-Jews murdered by the Germans died just as painfully-facts that are almost daily branded as "Lies" in letters to newspapers, occasionally in demonstrations, less infrequently in swastika-daubings and cemetery vandalism.

But these things-the Sylt birthday party, Hoffmann's army (which ought to be taken seriously-the Nazi party's strength rose to seven members when Hitler joined it), the National Zeitung, the "antiquarians" whose windows and shops are filled exclusively with Wiheimine and especially National Socialist clichés à vertu-are only symptoms of the Hitler-welle. The real thing is far more widespread, far deeper and more "respectable": in West Berlin alone there are more than 500 cars bearing registration plates that, after the mandatory "B" (for Berlin), carry such letter combinations as SS, SA, HJ, KZ before the various numerals. These designations-for Sturmschatzstaffel (Elite Guard), Sturmabteilung (Storm Troops), Hitler Jugend, Konzentrazion-lager (concentration camp)-have not been issued routinely. They are issued by request, and Karl Koenig, the Social Democrat who heads the city's Economics Department, the issuing office, explains that under West German law such requests cannot be refused. (I am not for one moment implying that the law should be revised: one does not fight ideas, or even brute hatreds, with muzzles.) The


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

18
same kinds of plates are visible in many other parts of Federal Germany.

There are now in print literally thousands of paper back titles dealing with every possible aspect of the Third Reich and its personahties. There are serious, analytical histories that sacritice success for integrity; on the other hand two big, exhaustive, expensive biographies of Hitler are selling more than well, and one of them, by loachim C. Fest, an editor of the arch-reactionary Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, has gone well past 275.00 copies at almost $20 apiece-the püblishers have 25.000 more ready and wanting in the warehouse. This book makes much of Hitler's "modernity," little of his parbarities: he was necessary to his time. The other, which is much more overtly an apologia-is by Werner Maser, who teaches the Hitler era at the University of Munich. It has sold 30.000 copies. It endeavors to create the impression that, had he not had certain problems arising out of misguided medication in 1933, Hitler would have done more good (and less harm).

In addition there are the big hardcover editions of

In England and in the US there has been a revival of interest in the Hitler era paralleling the one in West Germany At least 12 English and American publishers have capitalized on this interest. Here's a sampling ot theit recent books:

Pictures: *Sieg Heil*, an illustrated history of Germany trom Bismark to Hitter. by Stefan Lorant (Norton), more than 700 photographs and a literate text *Hitler Close-up* (Macmillan), interesting because these are tle pictures taken by futler's friend Heinrich Hoiff-mann, with commentary by confidant and diarist Henty Picker.

History: *Hitler's Rise to Power. The Nazi Movement in Bavana, 1923-1933*, by Geottrey Pridhan (ilarper & Row). In-depth answer to the question. what made people support Hitler in the early '20s' Careful and scholarly.

Military: *Hatter's War Arms. The Establishment of the New Order*, by Normen Rich (Norton) The second volume of a huge, hugely detailed study dealing with Hitlers tore:ga policies *The Rise and Fall of the Luftwajje*, by David Irving (Little, Brown), the life of Field Marshall Erhard Milch who was second in command to Goering and who surn ved to tell much of this to the author *The Admiral's Pack*, by Jean Noh (Double-day), containing authentic tirst-hand accounts of *U-a (Grey Wolves)* ations *Battle Over the Reich*, by Altred Ince (Cambridge University Press), contains pictures and text about the bombing and strating of German cities and towas. Part of the revival because it is Germany seen as destroyed from the air. *Hitler's Strategy. 1940-1941 the Baltan Clue*, by Martin van Creveld (Cambridge University Press), a new view

THE NEW REPUBLIC

Hitler's speeches (four volumes) and Propaganda Minister Paul Joseph Goebbels' (two volumes), four new books about Rudolf Hess, Hitler's deputy who is now, at 80, the last prisoner in Spandau, innumerable radio and television programs dealing with various aspects and personalities of the period, and, most lately, a fort nightly publication, *Das dritte Rech*, planned to cover the whole *NS-Zeit* for popular consumption in two years, and then expire.

The Alles especially the Americans for a long time torbade any mention whatever of the Hitler period. and West Germany, once it became a more or less miependent state, continued these bans for years. Even more than other peoples, Germans have the touching notion that censorship and repression will eftectively chainate ideas and facts; and, against this, reither the left nor the right has the famtest concept ot civil liberties, thus it is still forbidden, even though the German Communist party has been legalized again, to form a "Nazi" or "National Socialist" party. Consequently the old SA and SS men organized the totally Naša Nationaldemokratische Parter Deutschlands,

of Hitler's interest in the Mediterranean and his rula-tions with taly

Religion: *German Charch: Struggle and the Holo-caust* Mayne Unversity Press), a collection of essays that grew out it the First International Scholars' Con-ference m 1

Refugees: *Sand Refuge*, by A. J. Sherman (University of Cantoria Press) An interesting study of how Britain changed her policy aband retugees nom the Third Reich rom 1933 to 1939 and why.

Persons: *Target Heydrich*, by Miroslav Ivanov (Afac-millan). Nay-y-play account of the assassination of Czech excupation head Reinhard Heydrich and the Nazi revenge that culminated in Lindice *Hitler*. by Joachim i est (tlarcourt Brace Jovanovich), the English transiamsa by Eisland and Clara Winston of the breg-raphy in which best concludes that it Hitler hast died or been killet in 1935 "ten would hesitate to call him one of the greatest of German statesmen," which may be why ine to is seven-eightos over before we come to the Hitler os the wat years *Werner Maser's Hitler Legend Muthara Reality* Harper & Row). Enormously detaried with so many tazas they obscure the man end his works

Future: To be published by Viking in August, already published in England (Secker & Warburg). The lone-hest Man in the the "inside story of the 30-year imprisonment kadolt Hess." inside because the author. Eugene K wird, was tormer commandant of Spandau Frison and seems to have won Hess' confi-dence Despite is promises it says very little that has not already been known or surmised.

- The Editors


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# JUNE 8, 1974.

which, after some initial successes, took cover in the hardly inhospitable Christian Democratic and Christian Social Uhions but has recently announced its determination to purge itself of this taipt." In addition in spite of the constitutional ban (Article, 18) on on any use of civil liberties to endanger the undetined free democratic basic order," the state of Lower Saxony alone has 34 active Fascist and Nazi organizations, publishing houses, and mail-order book distributors. No one knows how many members and customers they have because they operate furtively, as the rather stupid law compels them to dó Mut (Courage), a monthly magazine addressing a frankly Fascist if not Nazi program to the young in that state, has a circulation of 10.00%) and is regarded by the Lower Saxon Minister of the Interior as potentially or latently dangerous.

Everywhere there is curiosity about those mysterious 12 years. The teachers who taught then are stiil teaching, unless superannuated, but very few of them dare to teach what they used to teach, or even to talk about "the past." That is why Das drifte Rech was founded this year: to make money out of that curiosity. The idea was that of Hans-Peter Dietze, now its managing editor, according to his editor-in-chief, Dr. Christian Zentner, who stakes, a pious claun to a de-site to show his young compatriots how the Third Reich carne to pass. in order to prevent its ever happening again. After four issues, Dr. Zentner is not so sure that his publisher, the big Hamburg house of John Jahr Verlag KG, will do much more than break even, because, he told me, what millions of people are insatiably interested in is not "the abstractions" of nazism and its history but its personalities, and in particular Adolf Hitler. These, he says, are "simple" people who do not read books but who watch television and read magazines, and it was they whom he set out to capture to clarify the past for them.

His magazine is expensive - about $1.50 a copy. A tremendous advertising campaign, of dubious taste, resulted in first-issue sales some 150,000 above the 250.000 copies that the editors and publishers expected. The second issue sold between 330 000 and 340.000 copies, the third something over 250,000 so far, and the fourth-which is still on the newsstands-more than 200,000. The overwhelming majority of the purchasers and subscribers, Zentner admits, seems to include few of those young people he was looking for. the real circulation is among the people old enough to remember, the Nazis who write furious letters to the editor because he tarnishes their legends. Both Dietze and Zentner fold me that the greatest sales of Das dritte Reich are not in cities but out in the country and the small towns, in Bavaria and Franconia especially. One of the reasons for the phenomenal success of a television program called "Ein Herz und eine Seele" ("One Heart and One Soul") is its enthusiastically en-

19

joyed derogations of the sub-men, by name: the Slavs, the lows, the Latins, the Levantines A German exaggeration ot "All-in the Fantily, the program plays also on the hysterical dread of the Communists" that has been endemic here ever since the general staft realized in 1915 that it had made a terrible mistake in helping Lenin in 1917. Ex-Chancellor Willy Brandt Br was a constant target because of his illegitimate birth and his "traitorous" conduct from 1935 to 1915, when he fought against nazism, as well as bis "selling out" to "the Reds." The program regularly attracts 60-65 percent of the national audience, and only an occasional editorial writer or commentator dates to see its popularity for the darger it is. Its "lett-liberal" creator, Wolfgang Menge, claims it to be a satire and so recognized because people say its protagonist, Altred Tetzlaff, sounds just like Franz Josef Strauss, the head of. the CSU: but then in each regional election this year more of them vote for the Strausses.

In mid-March the Bavarian State Radio and Television broadcast a long interview with Hitler's (and Franklin Roosevelt'sa old thiend, Ernst (l'utzi) Hanf-staengl, who is now S. Though in the end-through a rather gruesome practical joke-he felt he had to lee to the United States in 1997, and was malenalty as-sisted by Roosevelt, his old Harvard classmate, in gaining entay (later he became an adviser on policy to the American forces!). Hanfstaengl spent his whole tume on camera telling what ime fellows Hitler, Goering, Goebbels, Himader and the others really were, when all was said and done-and masters of their trades to boct: firne solchets, gentuses at propaganda, und so weiter. Their Weimar predecessors he belittled and dismissed as nothings, though he admitted he had never known much about their aspirations or their achievements. Moreover in spite of having, with his wife and sister. lavishly and almost single. mindedly supported Hitler from the days before the 1923 Munchen. Pres to his own abrupt departure for the decadent democracy, ifentataengl insisted that he had never thought tot a moment that the umemitting vuulent anti-Semitis. ot his friend and hato would ever amount to anything serious ("some of my best friends were..."). o tinut his protege would ever have been "stupra enough to start a war "

The real danger et a Ruler renascence, in the view of Dr. Hugs Mare, a scholar who surfered under the original, lies in the combination of a tomanne nostalgia and the millenn German taith in authoritanan rule as the solution to all problems Weimar, atter all, failed primanly, as both William B. Shirer and Karl Dietrich Bracher have shown, because no one, including the Social Democrats who proclaimed it out of desperation when they could find neither a Hohen-zollern nor any other royalty to accept the throne, wanted a repubis. When the economic crash came after 1929, the millennial search for the "strong man" lost its last restraint.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# Intelligence Information Report

![seal of the Directorate for Plans]

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

S E C R E T

COUNTRY West Germany

REPORT NO. CS-311/01424-72

DOI March 1972

DATE DISTR. 14 March 1972

SUBJECT Intention of the Executive Committee of the National Democratic Party to Urge Non-participation of the Party in Baden-Wuerttemberg Election

ACQ Germany, Hamburg (10 March 1972) FIELD NO. EGG-1825

SOURCE An official West German security service at the Land level. Analogous information from other West German services should not be construed as confirmation. The sub-source is an NPD official who had access to the information.

1.  The executive committee of the West German National Democratic Party (NPD) will meet on 18 March with officials of the Baden-Wuerttemberg NPD organization and attempt to persuade the Land organization not to contest the 23 April Land election. The executive committee will point out that if the NFD does not run candidates in this election, the chances for the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) to obtain a majority in the Baden-Wuerttemberg election will be enhanced. This would enable the CDU to retain its Bundesrat majority and improve the chances of defeating the Eastern treaties of the Social Democratic Party/Free Democratic Party government.

2.  The background of the executive committee's desire to avoid contesting the Baden-Wuerttemberg election is its estimate that the NPD would capture only two per cent of the vote this year compared with 9.4 per cent in the last election, a result which the executive committee is most anxious to avoid.

3.  Field Dissem: Sent to Bonn and Berlin.

S E C R E T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE    | DIA | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | CRS | (for Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| -------- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| E/INTEL  |     |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/R    |     |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/R/BD | 1   |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/R/LB | 1   |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/W    | 1   |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| TOTALS   | 3   |      |      |     |     |     | NOT FOR LIAISON                              |

IE 2, CI 2, FI 3, FR 1, EUR 6

EGG-1825
Hamburg-21038
IN 557585
CAEROTIC/3

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# TOCS INFORMATI REPORT

OPO LOIS BARNAAL/kmb
UNIT E/G/R
EXT. 7118
DATE 1 DECEMBER 1971
CONF
EUR 11 FI 5, IN, CSDO, DO 4.

DATE DISTPIBUTED 1 DECEMBER 1971

|                                                                                      | DISSEMINATION       |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------- |
| E/R             2                                                                    | E/G/R/SP 2.4-1      |
| E/G/R           2                                                                    | E/G/W 1             |
| E/G/R/BD-1                                                                           | E/F/R 2             |
| E/G/R/JE-                                                                            |                     |
| E/G/R/LB-1                                                                           |                     |
| EVALUATION REQUESTED                                                                 | STATE ARMY NAVY AIR |
| OF HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS (Piece X in appropriate space. List electrical addrestees.) |                     |

RECOMMEND EXO
BASIC DOCUMENT NOT MADE AVAILABLE DCI
RELAY CABLE ATTACHED
SHOW IW

W DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO: SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB
USIB PERSONAL ATTN
ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON

**C S INTERNAL USE ONLY**

![Signature of JOHN NAPOTHER]

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

![Stamp]

![Signature of HANS JOSES]

FORM 1K-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

---

TDCS-314/12543-71

PRECEDENCE
X ROUTINE
SASED ON (FED. APT, PROIJ)
EGG-1781
HAMBURG 20722
IN 479259
CAEROTIC/3
LIAISON *

WP 2.4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# Intelligence Information Cable

• ROUTINE

IN 479259

PAGE 1 OF 5 PAGES

DIRECTORATE OF PLANS

STATE/INS DIA NMCC/MC (SECDET ICS ARMY NAVY AR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONF CRS XXXXXXXX
TREAS XXXXXX

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

CITE TDCS -314/12543-71

COUNTRY WEST GERMANY

DIST 1 DECEMBER 1971

DOI NOVEMBER 1971

SUBJECT SUMMARY OF ADOLF VON THADDEN'S 3 DECEMBER SPEECH TO THE NORTHWEST MINING ASSOCIATION

ACQ GERMANY, HAMBURG (23 NOVEMBER 1971) FIELD NO. EGG-1721

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL WEST GERMAN SECURITY SERVICE AT THE LAND LEVEL. ANALOGOUS INFORMATION FROM OTHER WEST GERMAN SERVICES SHOULD NOT BE CONSTRUED AS CONFIRMATION. THE SUB-SOURCE IS AN NPD OFFICIAL WHO HAD ACCESS TO A COPY OF THE DRAFT SPEECH.

1. (FIELD COMMENT: ADOLF VON THADDEN, FORMER NATIONAL CHAIRMAN OF THE WEST GERMAN NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (NPD), HAS BEEN INVITED TO SPEAK TO THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF THE NORTHWEST MINING ASSOCIATION, SPOKANE, WASHINGTON, ON 3 DECEMBER ON THE TOPIC: A EUROPEAN'S VIEW OF THE AMERICAN CURRENCY PROBLEM. SEE AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL HAMBURG TELEGRAM 767, 10 NOVEMBER 1971. DESPITE VON THADDEN'S RECENT RESIGNATION FROM HIS NPD POST HE STILL PLANS TO ATTEND THE MEETING AND

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

IDCS-314/12513-71
PAGE 2 OF 5 PAGES

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classificationi: (dissem controls)

TO PRESENT THE SPEECH WHICH IS SUMMARIZED BELOW.)

2. VON THADDEN BEGINS BY TRACING THE HISTORY OF
   THE UNITED STATES' RELATIONSHIP WITH GERMANY FROM WORLD
   WAR I TO THE PRESENT, DEVOTING CONSIDERABLE ATTENTION TO
   THE 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH. HÈ GIVES CREDIT TO THE
   UNITED STATES FOR HELPING EUROPE BACK ON ITS FEET AFTER
   WORLD WAR 11 THROUGH THE MARSHALL PLAN. BUT POINTS OUT
   THAT THE NATIONS WHICH WERE HELPED USED THE AID TO BUILD
   AN EXPORT BASE WHICH NOW IS CONTRIBUTING TO AMERICA'S
   FINANCIAL TROUBLES. HE SAYS THAT GERMANY AND OTHER.
   COUNTRIES BECAME INFECTED WITH AN "EXPORT HYSTERIA"
   AFTER THE WAR WHICH HAD SHORT TERM BENEFITS FOR WORLD
   TRADE, BUT WHICH IN THE LONG RUN DAMAGED THE DOMESTIC
   ECONOMIES OF THE EXPORTING COUNTRIES.

3. THE 15 AUGUST 1971 SPEECH BY PRESIDENT NIXON IS
   COMPARED WITH THE 24 OCTOBER 1929 STOCK MARKET CRASH,
   AND VON THADDEN SAYS THAT THE SPEECH WILL HAVE JUST AS
   PROFOUND AN EFFECT ON THE WORLD'S FINANCIAL SYSTEM AS DID
   THE CRASH. HE DEPICTS THE SPEECH AND THE RESULTING CONTROLS
   AS SPELLING THE END OF THE ECONOMIC SYSTEM ESTABLISHED
   AT BRETTON-WOODS.

5
4
3
2
1

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem control)

5
4
3
2
1.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

JUCS -314/12543-71
PAGE 3 OF 5 PAGES

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

4. IN HIS ANALYSIS OF THE TYPE OF WORLD ECONOMIC SYSTEM WHICH SHOULD FOLLOW THE CURRENT AMERICAN CONTROLS AND FLOATING OF THE DOLLAR, VON THADDEN DRAWS HEAVILY FROM THE 23 SEPTEMBER PRESS CONFERENCE OF FRENCH PRESIDENT POMPIDOU.. HE SAYS THAT THE DOLLAR CAN NO LONGER BE CONSIDERED THE SINGLE WORLD CURRENCY. THE PRODUCTIVE CAPACITY OF EUROPE MAKES IT NECESSARY THAT A EUROPEAN RESERVE CURRENCY BE AVAILABLE AS A SECOND WORLD CURRENCY. THIS CANNOT BE THE BRITISH POUND AS MANY PEOPLE AT ONE TIME WOULD HAVE BELIEVED, BUT MUST BE A CURRENCY ACCEPTED BY BOTH FRANCE AND GERMANY AND ADMINISTERED BY A COMMON GERMAN-FRENCH BANK SUPPORTED BY GOLD. ALL EUROPEAN STATES WOULD USE THIS BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS. VON THADDEN VIEWS POMPIDOU'S SPEECH AS A SIGNAL TO THE UNITED STATES THAT THE FRENCH ARE NOT WILLING TO STAY PERMANENTLY UNDER ECONOMIC PRESSURE FROM WASHINGTON, AND AS PROVIDING AN OUTLINE OF THE TYPE OF ECONOMIC ORDER EUROPE SHOULD HAVE IN THE FUTURE. HE CRITICIZES THE WEST GERMAN GOVERNMENT FOR NOT TAKING A SIMILAR STAND, SAYING THAT WHEN IT IS POSSIBLE FOR ONE STATE TO PUT ECONOMIC PRESSURE ON OTHER STATES, THE SITUATION CAN LEAD TO

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

TDCS -314/12543-71
PAGE 4 OF 5 PAGES

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN
(classification) (dissem controls)

POLITICAL AND MILITARY PRESSURES WHICH WOULD BE PROFITABLE
ONLY TO THE COMMUNISTS.

5. VON THADDEN SEES TWO ALTERNATIVES IN THE PRESENT
   SITUATION, I.E., EITHER A RETURN TO FIRM PARITY WITH A
   DEVALUED DOLLAR, OR A CHANGE TO FLEXIBLE EXCHANGE RATES
   AGREED TO BY THE INDIVIDUAL COUNTRIES AND GUARANTEED BY
   INDIVIDUAL CURRENCIES. HE BELIEVES THE DOLLAR MUST BE
   DEVALUED BECAUSE THE UNITED STATES CANNOT EXPECT EUROPEANS
   TO CONTINUE TO BUY THE DOLLAR AT A RATE WHICH IS NOT
   LEGALLY FIXED. HE VIEWS FLEXIBLE EXCHANGE RATES AS
   DESIRABLE FOR EUROPE, BUT NOT REALIZABLE AT PRESENT
   BECAUSE THIS SYSTEM WOULD EXCLUDE THE "THIRD WORLD"
   AND THUS WOULD BE OPPOSED BY THE UNITED STATES.

6. SUMMARIZING, VON THADDEN STRESSES THE NECESSITY
   FOR THE FREE WORLD TO REMAIN STRONG AND FOR EACH EUROPEAN
   COUNTRY TO RETAIN ITS NATIONAL CHARACTER AND DIGNITY TO
   PREVENT DOMINATION BY COMMUNIST AND FAR-LEFT FORCES. HE
   CRITICIZES THOSE WHO SAY THAT AMERICA IS NO LONGER NEEDED
   AS A COUNTERWEIGHT TO THE USSR, DECLARING THAT THERE IS
   NO OTHER COUNTRY WHICH CAN SERVE IN THIS CAPACITY, ESPECIALLY
   NOT PRESENT DAY WEST GERMANY. HE SAYS THAT THE WEST

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classifier) (dissem controls)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

IN
IDCS -314/12543-71
PAGE 5 OF 5 PAGES

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)

GERMAN PEOPLE, THROUGH COMMUNIST INFLUENCE AND LEADERS
WHO ARE FRIENDLY TO COMMUNISM, HAVE LOST THEIR NATIONAL
CHARACTER AND ARE TOO WEAK TO OPPOSE THE USSR. HE ENDS
BY CALLING FOR A CHARACTER RENAISSANCE IN THE FREE WORLD
TO MAKE IT STRONG ENOUGH TO COUNTER COMMUNISM. (HEADQUARTERS
COMMENT: THE STATEMENT OF VON THADDEN IN SPOKANE MAY
ATTRACT PRESS INTEREST DUE TO THE NOTORIETY HE GAINED IN
RECENT YEARS AS LEADER OF A GERMAN NATIONALIST PARTY
WIDELY DESCRIBED AS NEO-NAZI. IN FACT, THE PARTY. HAS
DECLINED IN THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC TO THE POINT WHERE IT
IS THREATENED WITH EXTINCTION, AND VON THADDEN'S RECENT
RESIGNATION FROM THE PARTY DEPRIVES HIM OF ANY POLITICAL
PLATFORM IN WEST GERMANY.)

7. FIELD DISSEM: NONE (SENT BONN).

• SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

![logo of central intelligence agency]

DIRECTORATE OF PLANS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

REPORT NO. CS-311/01861-71

COUNTRY West Germany

DATE DISTR. 10 March 1971

DOI March 1971

•2JP 24

SUBJECT Intention of Adolf von Thadden to Resign As Chairman of the National Democratic Party

ACQ Germany, Hamburg (8 March 1971) FIELD NO. KGG-1682

SOURCE An official West German Security Service concerned with right and left radical organizations, from sources described as NPD officials, who have access to the information. Similar information received through other West German intelligence channels should not be construed as confirmation.

1. In early March 1971 Adolf Von Thadden indicated to close associates including members of the Executive Committee of the National Democratic Party of Germany (Nationaldemokratische Partei Deutschlands - NPD) that he plans to resign as Chairman of the NPD in the near future. Von Thadden has not announced the date when he plans to resign but close associates believe it will be sometime during the period 1 April to 1 June 1971.

2. Von Thadden's decision has been prompted by his discouragement over prospects for the NPD, serious financial difficulties of the party and by severe internal bickering within the NPD Executive Committee during the past several weeks. Von Thadden is basically more moderate than many members of the Executive Committee. Among other disagreements, Von Thadden has opposed certain aspects of the "Resistance Action" (Aktion Widerstand) in which NPD members have recently staged demonstrations which erupted into violence. Von Thadden was also personally humiliated when his sister and other relatives asked him not to attend the funeral of Von Thadden's brother-in-law, the well-known historian Percy Schramm who died in Goettingen in January 1971.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR NSA CES (For Field Distribution see final paragraph)

|                |     |        |     |     |     |     |
| -------------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E/R            | 1   | CA/INT | 2   |     |     |     |
| E/G/R          | 2   | CA/PEG | 1   |     |     |     |
| E/G/R/JE       | 1   |        |     |     |     |     |
| E/G/R/BM       | 1   |        |     |     |     |     |
| E/G/R (WP 2.4) | 1   |        |     |     |     |     |

TOTALS IE 2, CI 2, FI 3, DO 1. EUR 6, CA 3

EGG-1682
HAMBURG 19934
IN 282656
CAGROFIC
COORDINATING ALLESPING

LIAISON 32

HM: JM

sam


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
CS-311/01861-71

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3.  (Source Comment: Von Thadden's resignation
    will in all probability mean the end of the NPD as an
    effective political organization. With the possible
    exception of the Bavarian District Chairman of the NPD,
    Dr. Siegfried Poehlmann, the NPD lacks effective
    and dynamic leaders. Pochlmann, however, has health
    problems and also does not have the stature of Von Thadden.
    The disintegration of the NPD will probably result in a
    number of smaller right-wing groups coming into existence,
    some of which, like the recent "Aktion Widerstand" may
    have a propensity for violence. After the NPD disin-
    tegates, most of its former supporters will probably
    cast their votes for one of the three major political
    parties in West Germany. The CDU and CSU stand to gain
    most of these votes.)

4. Field Dissem: None.

SECRET. NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# Intelligence Information Report

![Intelligence Directorate of Plans logo]

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sec. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FORGIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

**SECRET**

REPORT NO. CS-311/02895-70

COUNTRY West Germany

DOI. Mid-February 1970

SUBJECT Analysis of the West German National Democratic Party's Election Chances and Cohesiveness

ACQ Germany (27 February 1970) FIELD NO.

SOURCE A medium-level West German government official who follows the activities of the National Democratic Party (NPD), from an NPD official who attended the party congress. The report is the NPD official's analysis of the party's situation in the wake of the congress. The information is also passed to an official West German service, from which similar information should not be construed as confirmation.

1. Adolf von Thadden. NPD chairman, remains firmly in control of the party following the 14-15 February 1970 NPD congress in Wertheim.

2. Skepticism about the future of the NPD is increasing among party leaders. The NPD is definitely planning to wage vigorous cam- paigns in all 1970 Land elections, but there appears to be little chance that the party will do even as well in these elections as it did in the 1969 Bundestag elections, when it failed to obtain five percent of the total vote.

3. At the congress, several prominent NPD leaders emphasized the need for party unity; these appeals were well received by the delegates. There are many unresolved questions and problems, how- ever, which will continue to plague the party. For instance, the "national-conservative" concept, which was adopted in the manifesto issued by the congress, came under strong attack. One group, which includes both older and younger members, rejects the concept of the NPD as a conservative party, because they consider that this term conveys the idea that the party is an out-of-date and reactionary political group. On the other hand, the proponents of the national- conservative concept consider themselves as upholding "positive values" in the face of manifestations of disintegration. Von Thadden is the party's unifying force, and one delegate accurately summarized the situation by saying: "Von Thadden, by virtue of the charisma of his speeches, succeeded in bridging the many cracks in the party."

4. Field Dissem: Embassy Bonn, USBER.

**SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM**

| STATE | DIA | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | SID | CRS | (For Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| ----- | --- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
|       |     |      |      |     |     |     |     |                                              |

| E/G/W    | 1   |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| -------- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| E/G/R    | 2   |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| C/E/G/W  | 1   |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| E/R      |     |     |     |     | 1   |     |     |
| E/G/R/WP | 2,4 |     |     |     |     |     |     |

OGA-953
CATERROR
HM:CHW
lah

IE 2.CI 2. FI 3, DO 1, EUR 6

![No Liaison Liaison]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# Intelligence Information Repo

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the espionage laws, Title 18, USC Secs. 793 & 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

![logo of central intelligence agency]DIRECTORATE OF
PLANS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET

REPORT NO. CS-311/08556-69

DATE DISTR. 26 September 1969

COUNTRY West Germany

DOI June 1968, 1 September 1969

SUBJECT West German Ministry of Interior
Evaluation of the Prospects of
Banning the National Democratic
Party

ACQ Germany (1 September 1969) FIELD NO. OGA-913

SOURCE A medium-level West German government official who follows
the activities of the National Democratic Party and who had
access to the study during his official duties. The informa-
tion was extracted from the original document and is believed
to be an accurate summary of its highlights.

Summary: In June 1968, the West German Ministry of the Interior prepared a basic study of the prospects of banning the West German National Democratic Party (NPD). The summary of this study given below describes the major charges which the government could bring against the NPD, the defenses the NPD could be expected to make against these charges, and the probable political results which would follow both a successful and an unsuccessful case against the NPD. According to the source, this study is still considered the basic Interior Ministry evaluation of the case against the NPD and is being studied by senior federal government and state (Land) officials. End of Summary.

1. (Field Comment: For several years, West German political and government leaders have debated seeking a constitutional court ban on the NPD. On 13 November 1968, Ernst Benda, West German Interior Minister, advised Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger that there was sufficient evidence to warrant bringing a suit against the NPD. Kiesinger, however, opposed bringing a suit, and the subject became embroiled in West German politics. Cn 23 April 1969, the Federal Cabinet decided not to seek a court ban of the NPD, at least until after the September elections, This decision was prompted by evidence that the NPD was making no membership gains and apparently was losing popular support.)

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE                            | DIA | ARMY          | NAVY | AIR | NSA           | CRS | (For Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| -------------------------------- | --- | ------------- | ---- | --- | ------------- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| C/E/R                            | 1   | E/G/R/C   1   |      |     |               |     | OGA-913                                      |
| E/G/R                            | 2   | E/G/R(WF 2/4) | 1    |     |               |     | CATERRO                                      |
| E/G/W                            | 1   | E/BERLIN 2    |      |     |               |     |                                              |
| C/E/G/W                          |     |               |      |     | NO LIAISON 32 |     | COORDINATING RELEASING HM:CH:                |
| E/G/R/P                          | 1   |               |      |     |               |     |                                              |
| TOTALS                           |     |               |      |     |               |     |                                              |
| IE 2, CI 2, FI 3, DO 1, EUR 8(2) |     |               |      |     |               |     | sro                                          |


![Form 11-69] OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

Page 2 of 3 Pages
CS-311/08556-69

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

2. In June 1968, the West German Interior Ministry prepared
   a 50-page study of the prospects for banning the NPD entitled
   "Considerations Regarding a Ban of the National Democratic Party."
   The study was well prepared and carefully written. It is still
   considered the basic Interior Ministry paper on the NPD and is
   being studied by senior officials of both the federal and state
   governments. It avoids giving an opinion on the prospects of ob-
   taining a court decision against the NPD, but from the content of
   the study, it is clear that the authors believed that the courts
   would probably reject a government proposal to ban the NPD.
   (Field Comment: If the study is still considered current, it is
   unclear how it fits with Benda's November 1968 statement that there
   was sufficient evidence to obtain a ban against the NPD.)

3. The study summarized the case which could be brought
   against the NPD as follows:

a. It could be shown that there was a similarity
between the NPD and the National Socialist German Workers
Party (NSDAP) which has been outlawed.

b. It could be argued that the goals, and parts of
the party platform, of the NPD are contrary to the prin-
ciples of a free democratic state.

The study concludes that a sufficiently strong case could be pre-
sented to prevent the case being thrown out by the courts without
a hearing..

4. The study lists the following points which the NPD cculd
   be expected to use in its defense:

a. The party could prove that it has given firm instruc-
(tions to its members not to engage in rowdyism or violence.

b. It could show that a sizeable number of former
NSDAP members have been forced out of the party as part
of the Selbstreinigung (self-cleaning) process.

c. It could point out many features of its program
which are in accord with democratic principles.

d. It could show that its elected representatives
have worked with other parties and have not disrupted the
Landtage (state diets) and other elected bodies in which
they participate.

e. It could point out that other political parties
have many ex-Nazis and ex-communists as members and could
claim that the majority of the 28,000 NPD members are not
opposed to the concept of the Federal Republic.

f. It would charge that the government's charges were
one-sided, unfairly presented, and out of date.

g. It would claim that not all of Professor Ernst
Anrich's points were included in the party plat-
form. (Field Comment: Anrich is a former university
professor-from Darmstadt whose proposals were apparently more
extreme than those incorporated in the party platform.)

h. It could claim that the increased violence
(Verrohung) of the political climate in West Germany is
the fault of the New Left and not of the NPD.

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRE T/NO FOREAN DISSEM

Page 3 of 3 Pages
CS-311/058556-69

5.  The study states that it would be very difficult to refute these NPD defenses in court. The government would have to admit that since carly 1968 there have been very few statements made by NPD leaders, or incidents caused by the NPD, which could be used to support the government's case. Objectively, it would have to be admitted that many incidents of violence in which the NPD has been involved were initiated by opponents of the party.

6.  The study predicts the following probable results should the government win its case against the NPD:

a. The NPD would probably respect the prohibition. It is very unlikely that the NPD would attempt to go underground as the illegal Communist Party of Germany (KPD) did.

b. NPD members and sympathizers would not change the ir opinions because of a ban. Many would join other groups or parties and continue to work for their political beliefs.

c. NPD and rightist sympathizers would begin a campaign for the banning of the new German Communist Party (DKP) and other leftist groups.

d. A ban of the NPD would be well received in foreign countries.

7. The study concludes that if the government should lose a case against the NPD, it would be the result of the lack of valid evidence (Beweisschwierigkeiten). In such an event, the following adverse effects would occur:

a. The NPD would receive a new impetus and valuable publicity.

b. The policy of Selbstreinigung which has had some success in keeping former Nazis out of key positions would be halted....

c. Many middle-class persons who sympathize with the NPD, but who have refrained from open support because of the stigma of being associated with a party which could be declared illegal, would join the party or become active supporters.

d. The party would undoubtedly attract more members. (Field Comment: The NPD leadership is known to be worried because the party's membership has not increased significantly during the past 18 months.)

8. Field Dissem: Embassy Bonn, USBER.

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

Chief of Base, Berlin

Chief of Station, Germany

Chief, European Division
CALL/INTEL
NPD Activities.

REF: EGBT-14559, dated 9 September 1969

SECRET

WP 2.4

1. We are very pleased with the quality of the information on the NPD which has been made available through CATERROR. It is particularly useful during this pre-election period, but we also appreciate not having to wait 6 to 8 weeks for CAVIUSPER to digest the material and pass it on.

2. After looking over the Reference, we are inclined to stick with the requirements mentioned in DIRECTOR 39284 for items worthy of intel dissemination. In this context Bonn State Department Telegram 12253 dated 17 September quotes Foreign Minister Brandt as saying that there has been evidence that the East Germans, undoubtedly with Soviet approval, had given financial support to von Thadden. While we are inclined to think that Brandt's comment may be wishful thinking, evidence of East German financing for the NPD would be of great interest and utility. Material not bearing on the requirements in DIRECTOR 39284 should be forwarded now to Headquarters for review. The NPD, as you know, is a subject of interest beyond its proportions as a political force, and we are grateful for the timely opportunity to keep up with the ins and outs of it.

Harriet G. COCOLLATO

2 - COB/Berlin

2 - COS/Germany

Group I

Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification

| CROSS REFERENCE TO                                             | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER    | DATE                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
|                                                                | EGBS-6522                     | 30-SEP-1969 25 September 1969 |
|                                                                | CLASSIFICATION                | HQS FILE NUMBER               |
|                                                                | SECRET                        |                               |
| 2 - E/G/R 1 - E/G/IS 1 - E/REG/Chrono. 1 - C/EUR/R : 1-C/E/G/R | OFFICE E/G/R Cassandra Horton | ORIGINATING TYPIST sro        |
|                                                                | OFFICE SYMBOL C/E/G/R         | COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME   |
|                                                                | DATE 26 Sept 69               | John Rluapistin               |
|                                                                | OFFICE SYMBOL C/E/R           | RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE |
|                                                                | DATE                          | EXT. 6196                     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the espionage laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

DIRECTORATE OF PLANS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

--- SECRET

REPORT NO. CS-311/0S430-69

COUNTRY West Germany

DATE DISTR. 22 September 1969

DOI Early August 1969

SUBJECT Miscellaneous Information on the National Democratic Party

ACQ Germany, Hamburg (15 August 1969)

FIELD NO. EGG-1444

SOURCE Member of the National Democratic Party in Schleswig-Holstein whose reliability has not yet been established. He obtained the information from two district officials of the Party.

1. According to a ranking official of the Kiel district of the National Democratic Party (NPD), Karl-Heinz Knipphals, the chairman of the Kiel district of the NPD, and Adolf von Thadden, the national chairman of the NPD, are personal enemies. (Source Comment: In January 1969 Knipphals was elected to be his party district's candidate for the West German Parliament. Knipphals, a Kiel lawyer, is in his early 50's. He was severely wounded during World War II and has only one arm.)

2. Von Thadden is aware of, and unhappy about, the fact that Knipphals, prior to joining the NPD, participated in Easter Marches and received unfavorable publicity. Furthermore, von Thadden is concerned about Knipphals' strong and ruthless political ambitions. He has referred to Knipphals as a "second Hitler", and he welcomes and encourages the fact that there is strong opposition to Knipphals even within the Kiel district of the party. Von Thadden, for the above reasons, would very much like to see Knipphals remain on the district level and is anxious to keep him out of the West German Parliament.

3. The same official who made the remarks about von Thadden and Knipphals. also stated that many wealthy industrial-ists contribute funds to the NPD anonymously, because they do not wish their association or sympathy with the party to become known.

4. The chairman of another NPD district in Schleswig-Holstein stated that, in view of the fact that each new

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE   | DIA  | ARMY | NAVY | AIR  | NSA   | CRS |
| ------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ----- | --- |
| C/E/R   | 1    |      |      |      |       |     |
| E/G/R   | 2    |      |      |      |       |     |
| E/G/R/P | 1    |      |      |      |       |     |
| E/G/R/C | 1    |      |      |      |       |     |
| E/G/W   | 1    |      |      |      |       |     |
| TOTALS  | IE 2 | CI 2 | FI 3 | DO 1 | EUR 6 |     |


EGG-1444
CAINFER

NO LIAISON

COORDINATING RELEASING

HM:CH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
CS-311/08430-69

Session of the West German Parliament is opened by its oldest member, the NPD will insure that the oldest member of the next Parliament will be an NPD man. (Headquarters Comment: The possibility that an NPD Deputy might open the Bundestag has already been considered by the CDU. See CS-311708164-698)

5. Field Dissem: None (sent Bonn, Berlin)

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning
of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any
manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

DIRECTORATE OF
PLANS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORT NO. CS LT-313/01123-69

COUNTRY West Germany

DATE DISTR. 9 July 1969

DOI 1 January 1969

SUBJECT German Government Evidence against
the National Democratic Party (NPD)

ACQ Germany, Bonn (26 March 1969)

FIELD NO. EGN-4107

SOURCE An official West German security service.

1. A 77-page German-language report, describing the
   National Democratic Party (NPD) and presenting documentary
   and testimonial evidence of possibly unconstitutional aspects
   of the NPD, has been deposited in the files of the CIA Docu-
   ment and Pictorial Services Division, from which copies may
   be obtained upon request. The report is the shorter of two
   versions prepared by the Federal Office for the Protection of
   the Constitution (Bundesamt fuer Verfassungsschutz). This
   shorter version is said to be complete in substance and is
   the version which was made available to West German Cabinet
   members in preparation for Cabinet discussion of whether the
   NPD should be banned. The longer, two-volume version has not
   been obtained.

2. Appraisal of the legal validity of the evidence
   against the NPD was omitted from the report at the order
   of the Minister of the Interior, who reserved to himself an
   assessment of the NPD's "legality. Also, pages 9 to 13--a
   section entitled Chief Features of the Ideology (Grundzuege
   der Ideologie)--was omitted from the report at the request
   of the Minister of the Interior. (Headquarters Comment:
   The evidence in the report appears to be overt and less than
   conclusive. The West German Cabinet decided in the spring
   of 1969 not to request a ban of the NPD; substantial doubt
   existed as to whether there were sufficient grounds to obtain
   a legal ban of the NPD. The omissions from the text, referred
   to in this paragraph, may reflect realization by the Interior
   Ministry of the weakness of the case against the NPD.)

4. Field Dissemination: U. S. Embassy Bonn (limited).

Distribution of Attachment:

CRS/ADD

CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE   | DIA                              | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | CRS | (For Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| ------- | -------------------------------- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| C/E/R   | 1E/G/R (WP2.1) - 1               |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| C/E/G   | 1E/G/R/L                         |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/INT | 1E/G/R/P                         |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/CE  | 1E/Bonn                          | 12   |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/R   | 2                                |      |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| TOTALS  | IE 2, CI 2, FI 3, DO 1, EUR 9(2) |      |      |     |     |     | LIAISON 32                                   |
|         |                                  |      |      |     |     |     | CAWHISPER EGN-4107                           |
|         |                                  |      |      |     |     |     | COORDINATING RELEASING HM: JL/ rmm\\y        |

5

4

3

2

1

4

3

2

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning
of the Espionage laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any
manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

![logo of intelligence agency]

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

REPORT NO. CS-311/06103 -69

COUNTRY West Berlin/West Germany

DATE DISTR. 7 July 1969

DOI March to Mid-May 1969

SUBJECT Status Report on Problems, Activities and Plans of the West Berlin National Democratic Party

ACQ. Germany, Berlin (March - Mid-May 1969) FIELD.NO. EGB-24,611

SOURCE Intercepted communications, supplemented by information from a member of the West Berlin National Democratic Party (NPD) with close contacts among members of the Berlin NPD Executive Council and a record of accurate reporting.

Summary: The Berlin NPD has been plagued by a split between the Berlin City leadership, which is loyal to the Party's national leaders, and the "Loyalists" headed by the Berlin district leaders, who opposed the dissolution of the Berlin NPD ordered by National Party Chairman Adolf von Thadden in October 1968. Court action led to the thwarting of the plan for dissolution. In an effort to keep the Berlin Party alive, in mid-March von Thadden ordered a cessation of open Party activities until after the September parliamentary elections. Subsequently, von Thadden arranged a postponement of a scheduled Berlin Party convention until October, because of the possibility of a ban on the Berlin NPD by the Allies and the threat of trouble from the militant left. At the end of March, Berlin City NPD Chief Rudolf Kendzia resigned in an effort to promote party unity in Berlin, but he remains active behind the scenes. Since early April, the Berlin NPD leadership has followed von Thadden's guidelines. The influence of the Loyalists has been greatly reduced, and in accordance with von Thadden's instructions party activities have been circumspect. Both the Berlin and the National leadership are hoping that the NPD will obtain 25 to 35 Bundestag seats in September, which, they feel, will make the party more acceptable to right-wing voters in Berlin and enhance NPD chances during the 1971 Berlin communal elections. Berlin is planning to send volunteer workers to campaign for the NPD in West Germany, especially in North Rhine-Westphalia, the NPD strong- hold. End of Summary.

1. (Field Comment: In October 1968, the West Berlin NPD had approximately 480 dues-paying members. According to a senior party official, more than 100 members have officially dropped their

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE         | DIA       | ARMY      | NAVY | AIR | NSA | CRS | (For Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| ------------- | --------- | --------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| C/E/R         | 1 E/G/CE  | 1 CA/INT  | 1    |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/R         | 2 E/G/INT | 1 CA/PROP | 2    |     |     |     |                                              |
| E/G/R/L       | 1 E/SI    | 1         |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E G R P       | 1 CIOP EU | 2         |      |     |     |     |                                              |
| E G R(WP2.4)/ | - 1       |           |      |     |     |     |                                              |

TOTALS IE 2, CI 4, FI 3, DO 1, EUR 9, CA 3

LIAISON * EGB-24,611

CAYANK

CAVANISH

COORDINATING RELEASING

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

CS-311 06103-69

membership and others are dropping out quietly. In March the paid-up membership was about 300.)

2. Following the abortive attempt by the National Democratic Party (NPD) leadership to force the Berlin SPD to dissolve itself for tactical reasons in October 1968, routine party activity resumed almost immediately. It was characterized by a split between the leadership of the Berlin City (Landesverband) party unit and that of district (Kreisverband) party units. The former are generally loyal to National Party Chairman Adolf von Thadden and the national leadership in Hanover and their broader tactical concepts, while the latter, referred to as the "Loyalists" (Satzungstreue), defend the letter of the Berlin NPD statutes. The Loyalists initially objected primarily to the method of the attempted dissolution, but the friction with the city Executive Committee (Landesvorstand) headed by Rudolf Kendzia led to total mutual mistrust, disloyal statements to the press, and efforts to get each other expelled from the party by a party court (Schiedsgericht).

3. At a general membership meeting in Berlin on 15 March 1969, von Thadden attempted to achieve a truce within the party and ordered that there be no "political organizational activity" until after the September 1969 parliamentary elections. At this meeting von Thadden approved the scheduling of a Berlin party convention (Landesparteitag) for 26 April 1969, at which a new and hopefully more stable city Executive Committee was to be elected.

4. The 15 March meeting provided an indication that the Berlin NPD may well stick together under von Thadden's guidance until 1971, in spite of the friction between city and district leadership. Although the eight spokesmen for the local leadership, who took the floor after Kendzia's situation report and von Thadden's keynote speech, approved the action of the Berlin NPD districts in opposing the self-dissolution of the local party, and no one contradicted them, all but 31 of the 140 members present then voted for a resolution condemning District Chiefs Johann Ratzek (Schoeneberg) and Philipp Goelles (Wilmersdorf), leaders of the Loyalists, for anti-party activity. This vote amounted to a vote of confidence in the tactics of the Berlin City leadership, and according to members present was due solely to von Thadden's presence and influence. In the view of these members, a meeting without the attendance of representatives of the Hanover headquarters would have led to a no-confidence vote in the Kendzia leadership. During the meeting, von Thadden also rejected Kendzia's "Berlin Program," which called for a softer line on East Germany and on German reunification.

5. At the 15 March session, left-wing, anti-NPD protestors assaulted a number of NPD members and forced the NPD twice to change its meeting site. This leftist action and the obvious fact that the militant left has a penetration of the Berlin NPD have had a seriously dampening effect on the NPD's willingness to meet in the open. The party is now tentatively planning to hold future meetings on a rented excursion boat whose location would not be announced until the time of the meeting.

6. The Berlin NPD has made strenuous efforts to determine which left-wing organizations made up the task force which tried to disrupt the 15 March meeting. The Extraparliamentary Opposition (APO) claimed the honor, but the NPD investigation showed definitely that all but a handful of the protestors were an organized group dispatched by the Spandau branch of the West Berlin Socialist Unity Party (SEW) whose actions are part of a long-range program of harassment by the East Berlin Socialist Unity Party (SED).

7. Because of the subsequent possible threats of prohibition by the Allies (signalled by a letter from Governing Mayor Klaus Schuetz to the Allies asking that the NPD in Berlin be banned) and of further counter-demonstrations by the militant left, on 27 March von Thadden wrote a letter to the Berlin City leadership asking that

5

4

3

2

1

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page 3 of 4 PAGES
CS-311/06103-69

the Berlin party convention be postponed until October 1969, the
normal expiration date of the term of the present city Executive
Committee and well after the national elections. The letter, which
was read at several district meetings, also stipulated that the city
and district organizations were to restrict themselves to routine
monthly meetings with no speeches and no invited guests until next
October.

8. In a tactical move to promote party unity, Party Chief
   Kendzia resigned on 28 March. In response to von Thadden's letter,
   the Berlin district pare unit leadership, which otherwise remained
   intact, called a session of the Berlin Party Council (Landesausschuss)
   on 10 April to approve the postponement of the party convention.
   (Field Comment: The Party Council consists of the Executive Committee
   plus the 12 district leaders.) Walter Seezen, a member of the na-
   tional leadership, was present. The situation was ticklish because
   the Berlin NPD statutes provide that if full membership meetings in
   four of the 12 districts had voted for holding of the party conven-
   tion in April, the postponement motion would fail; there was a dis-
   tinct danger that this could occur. At the 10 April meeting, the
   district leaders grumbled but approved the postponement until
   11 October.

9. On Kendzia's resignation, Guenther Mensel, a member of the
   Executive Committee, was selected as Acting Pa. ty Chief and Speaker
   of the Party Council until a new Executive Committee is elected in
   October. Mensel, an attorney, was hesitant about accepting the job
   because of its possible effect on his practice, and did not commit
   himself until the 10 April executive meeting. Mensel's age (62) and
   stability were the main reasons for his selection. The only other
   replacement considered was Guenter Kleinert, also on the Executive
   Committee, whom Kendzia did not trust. Mensel's duties are to con-
   sist of calling and chairing pro-forma monthly Executive Committee
   meetings and of presiding at the party congress next October.

10. Kendzia considers his resignation a temporary tactical re-
    treat caused by disagreements with the NPD national and Berlin dis-
    trict leaders, by von Thadden's public rejection of his "Berlin
    Program," loss of business because of unfavorable publicity, and a
    hit-and-run car accident involving a bicyclist on 27 March. Kendzia
    promised Mensel to remain active behind the scenes and set up a
    vacant office in his place of business as party headquarters, with
    desks for himself and Executive Committee members Frank Schwerdt,
    Joachim Rebuschat and Hans Werner Andreas, the *de facto* heads of the
    Berlin NPD.

11. Kendzia and a majority of the NPD leaders hope that the fall
    elections will bring some 25 to 35 NPD members into the Bundestag.
    This, they feel, will make the party more acceptable to potential
    right-wing voters in Berlin and thus enable the NPD to make a showing
    in the 1971 Berlin communal elections. (Source Comment: The Berlin
    NPD's major problem in Berlin is to keep its membership intact and
    it's machinery functioning until 1971. Whether Kendzia will hold to
    his promise to direct the Berlin NPD from behind the scenes indefi-
    nitely, and whether he will emerge as leader in 1971, are open ques-
    tions, because Kendzia has shown an interest in the current program
    and policies of the Free Democratic Party (FDP) and particularly in
    its "General-Contract" concept, which fits in with his "Berlin
    Program." A close friend of Kendzia's, (fnu) Nerchert, resigned from
    the NPD to protest its participation in the presidential election in
    Berlin on 5 March and has already made overtures to the FDP.)

12. Since Kendzia's resignation and the 10 April executive meet-
    ing, the Berlin City Executive Committee (under Kendzia's behind-the-
    scenes tutelage) has kept the Berlin NPD functioning and loyal to the
    Hanover leadership. Executive Committee members (especially Schwerdt,
    Rebuschat and Andreas) have attended annual election meetings in all
    12 party districts. Through their influence, pro-von Thadden or
    neutral District Executive Committees have been elected in each case.s
    The district officers who led the opposition to the self-dissolution 4

5
3
2
1

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

3
2
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page 4 of 4 PAGES
CS-311/06103-69

of the Berlin NPD last fall have been effectively expelled or neu-tralized. As of early May, Loyalist influence had been greatly reduced. Although there is now no significant internal opposition group, there was a call pending for formation of an informal group representing both the city organization and the districts to propose organizational changes. Routine monthly district meetings with "guests" from West Germany, whenever possible, are to be continued, under the watchful eye of the pro-tem Executive Committee, until next October when the party convention of the Berlin NPD will elect a new leadership.

13. Schuetz' attempts to have the NPD banned in Berlin have not been taken seriously. Local party activists are preparing to support the NPD election campaign in West Germany by sending volunteer workers. A letter appealing for such help states that the decisive electoral campaign which will determine whether or not the NPD gets into the Bundestag will be waged in North Rhine-Westphalia. Air fare and living expense subsidies are being offered to volunteers who are to distribute leaflets, put up posters and ring door-bells. (Field Comment: The NPD made inroads in North Rhine-Westphalia during the economic recession of 1965-66, and the NPD national leadership is counting heavily on salvaging their foothold in the Bielefeld-Ruhr area.)

14. The main NPD weapons in the national election campaign are to be pamphlets describing the party's election platform. One is to be distributed between 1 and 15 June; a follow-up pamphlet, between 15 and 30 August; and a third pamphlet on the eve of the election. Each will be printed in 15,000,000 copies. Distribution will be handled by two firms--Velbringer Company and Erdmann Company.

15. Ruediger Krauss, head of the NPD's student organization, the National University League (Nationaler Hochschulbund - NHB), has moved from Berlin to Bonn to assume the post of chairman of the Bonn City NPD Executive Committee. Von Thadden plans to use the tactic of moving reliable leaders into critical areas after the elections. For example, he plans to move a Bavarian NPD officer to Berlin and assume the chairmanship of the Berlin NPD. In an attempt to obtain legal recognition for the NHB in Berlin, (fnu) von Hindy, a Hungarian law student and good friend of Krauss, is to be appointed Krauss' successor.

16. Field Dissem: USBER, DCSI/USCOB (Also sent Bonn).

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

West Germany

June 1968

West German Ministry of Interior
Evaluation of the Prospects of
Danning the National Democratic
Party

Germany (1 September 1969)

OGA-813

A medium-level Vent German government official who follows the activities of the National Democratic Party and who had access to the study during his official duties. The information was extracted from the original document and is believed to be au accurate summary of its highlights.

Summary: In June 1968, the West German Ministry of the Interior prepared a basic study of the prospects of banning the West Geraan National Democratic Party (NPD). The summary of this study given below describes the major charges which the government could bring against the NPD, the defenses the NPD could be expected to make against these charges, and the probable political results which would follow both a successful and an unsuccessful case against the NPD. According to the source, this study is still considered the hasic Interior Ministry evaluation of the case against the NPD and is being studied by sentor federal government and state (Land) officials. End of Summary.

1. (Field Comment: For several years, West German political and government leaders have debated seeking a constitutional court ban on the NPD. Cu 13 November 1968, Brust Benda, West Geraan Interior Minister, advised Chancellor Kurt Georg Kiesinger that there was sufficient evidence to warrant bringing a suit against the NPD. Kiesinger, however, opposed bringing a suit, and the subject became embroiled in West German politica. On 23 April 1969, the Federal Cabinet decided not to seek a court ban of the NPO, at least until after the September elections. This decision was prompted by evidence that the NPD was waking no membership ga ins and apparently was losing popular support.)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSIM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

Page 2

2. In June 1968, the West Gerain Interior Ministry prepared a 50-page study of the prospects for watcg the NPD catitled "Considerations Regarding a Ban of the National Deaceratic Party." The study was well prepared and carefully written. It is still considered the basic Interior Fluistry paper on the NPD and is being studied by sentor officials of both the federal and stuce governments. It avoids giving an opinion on the prospects of obtaining a court decision against the NFD, but from the content of the study, it is clear that the authors believed that the courts would probably reject a government proposal to beu che NPD. (Field Comment: If the study is still considered current, it is unclear how it fits with Benda'a November 1966 statement that there was sufficient evidence to obtain a ban agatust the NPD. There have been other reports, however, that the evidence was not as clear-cut as Denda would have had the Chancellor believe. See, for example, 3GN-3894.)

3. The study summarized the case which could be brought against the NPU as follows:

a. It could be shown that there was a similarity between the NPD sud the National Socialist Gerann Workers Party (NSDAP) which das wen outlawed...

b. It could be argued that the goals, and parte of the parcy platform, of the NPD are contrary to the principles of a free democratic state.

The study concludes that a sufficiently strong case could be presented to prevent the case being throwe out by the courts without a bearing.

4. The study lists the following points which the NPD could be expected to use in its defense:

a. The party could prove that it has given fira instructions to St3 co to engage tu pייס גינמ feat.

b. It could show thet a sizeable number of former NSDAP members have been forced out of the party as part of the Selbstreinigung (self-cleaning) process.

c. It could point out many features of its progrea which are in accord with democratie principles.

d. It could show that its elected representatives have worked with other parties and have not disrupted the Lendtage (state diets) and other elected bodies in which they participate.

e. It could point out that other political parties bave many ex-Nazis and ex-communists as members and could claim that the majority of the 28,000 NPD numbers are not opposed to the concept of the Federal Republic.

f. It would charge that the government'a charges were one-sided, unfairly presented, and out of date.

g. It would claim that not all of Professor (fou) Anrich's points were tucluded in the party platform. (Field Comment: Anrich is appareatly a rightist whose proposals were more extreme than those incorporated in the party platforя.)

i. It could claim that the increased violence (Verrohung) of the political climate in West Germany is the fault of the New Left and not of the NPD.

stre RT.'NO FOREIGN DISSFU


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

Page 3

5. The study states that it would be very difficult to refuce these NPD defenses la court. The government would have co adait that since early 1968 there have been very few statements made by NPD leaders, or incidents caused by the HPD, which could be used to support the government's case. Objectively, it would have to be admitted that many incidents of violence in which the NPD has been involved were initiated by opponents of the party.

6. The study predicts the following probable results should the goveroment win ito case against the NPD:

a. The NPD would probably respect the prohibition. It is very unlikely that the NPD would attempt to go underground as the filegal Communist Party of Germany (KPD) did.

b. NPD members and sympathizers would not change their opinions because of a ban, Many would join other groups or parties and continue to work for their political beliefs.

c. NPD and rightist sympathizers would begin a campaign for the banning of the new Cerman Communist Party (DKP) and other leftist groups.

d. A ban of the NPD would be well received in foreigs countries.

7. The study coreludes that if the government shoula lose a case against the NPO, It would be the result of the lack of welld evidence (Beweisschwierigkeiten). la such an event, the following adverse affects vould occur:

a. The NPD would receive a new impetus and valuable publicity.

b. The policy of Selbstreinigung which has had some success in keeping former Nuzle out of key positions would be halted.

c. Many middle-class persons who sympathize with the , but who have refrained from open support because of the stigma of being associated with a party which could be declared illegal, world join the party or become active supporters.

d. The party would undoubtedly attract wore weabers, (Field Comment: The NPD leadership is known to be worried because the party's mestership has not increased significantly during the past 16 months.)

3. Field Dissen: Sabassy Bonn, USBER.

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

DIRECTORATE OF
INTELLIGENCE

# WEEKLY SUMMARY

*Special Report*

West Germany's National Democrats and the Grand Coalition

Secret
No Foreign Dissem

Secret

No 919

31 May 1968

No. 0022/68A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET

WEST GERMANY'S NATIONAL DEMOCRATS AND THE GRAND COALITION

Germany's far-right National Democratic Party (NPD) showed another increase in strength in recent elections in Baden-Wuerttemberg, while the Social Democrats (SPD) lost heavily. This outcome in a traditionally liberal and prosperous state appears to stem in part from the dissatisfaction of many Socialists and trade unionists in the SPD with their party's cabinet cooperation with the Christian Democrats (CDU). Another factor was the discontent of farmers. and refugees with the policies of the Grand Coalition in Bonn. Concern over student dis- orders contributed to the NPD gains, but this was not as decisive as some have supposed. Despite - these gains, the NPD is unlikely to achieve a growth comparable to that of the Nazi Party in the early 1930s.

The outcome in Baden-Wuerttemberg confirmed the belief of many Socialists that their coopera- tion with the CDU at both the national and state level is proving to be unprofitable for the party. As a result, they have already decided at the state level not to renew cabinet cocperation with the CDU in Baden-Wuerttemberg, thus making prospects for the Bonn coalition appear less favorable. Nevertheless, SPD leaders in Bonn remain committed to the Grand Coalition and serious instability at the federal level seems unlikely. Over the long run the outcome of this latest election may have certain implications nationally, including the possibility that Bonn leaders may be encouraged to take a more nationalist line.

## The NPD's Success

The West German state elec- tions in Baden-Wuerttemberg on 28 April brought the far-right National Democratic Party (NPD) 9.8 percent of the vote, the most impressive total it has yet attained in any state. About 71 percent of the voters turned out, approximately three percent more than in the last Baden- Wuerttemberg state election in 1954, but 15 percent less than in the 1965 federal election.

Christian Democratic Union (CC) strength fell slightly to 44.1 percent (1964: 46.2 per- cent), while the Social Demo- cratic Party (SPD) achieved a vote of only 29.1 percent (1964:

SECRET

Page 1 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET

# PARTIES IN BADEN-WUERTTEMBERG

> [Figure: Pie charts illustrating party representation in Baden-Württemberg for 1968 and 1964. In 1968, CDU has 60 seats, SPD has 37, FDP has 18, and NPD has 12, totaling 127 seats. In 1964, CDU has 59 seats, SPD has 47, and FDP has 14, totaling 120 seats.]

(37.3 percent). The liberal Free Democratic Party (FDP), made a slight gain, winning 14.4 percent of the vote (1964: 13.1 percent). Against the background of last October's Bremen elections, in which the National Democratic Party won what was then a record percentage of 8.9, the Baden-Wuerttemberg results brought renewed cries of alarm over the dangers of neo-Nazism in the Federal Republic. More important, the results also raised doubts as to the future of a coalition government by the Christian Democrats and Social Democrats, not only in Baden-Wuerttemberg but at the federal government level as well.

## Baden-Wuerttemberg: A Test Case

Baden and Wuerttemberg traditionally have been strongholds of liberal, nonsocialist democracy in Germany. In the early 1930s, the Nazi vote in this area was almost always appreciably lower than elsewhere in Germany. The hotbeds of Nazism lay in other regions, for example in Franconia, East Prussia, and Schleswig-Holstein.

The economic and social picture in Baden-Wuerttemberg would lead to expectations of stability there. The proportion of the population now employed in industry is higher than in any other state. The economy of the state was virtually untouched by the recent West German recession, during which unemployment never exceeded one percent. Per capita income is above average. Protestants and Catholics are almost evenly balanced in population, while the proportion of protestants in the Federal Republic is slightly higher.

A few observers correctly forecast the outcome, but the general expectation was that the vote for the National Democratic Party would be lower than in Bremen. The two major West German polling organizations had predicted in March that the NPD would receive five percent of the vote.

Federal-level politicians had campaigned actively in the state. Chancellor Kurt Kiesinger, a popular native son, made a three-day speaking tour, in which he sharply attacked "arrogant, thoughtless, and dangerous nationalism." He stressed this theme in the Hohenlohe area, where the NPD later received its highest vote in the state. Willy Brandt also appeared to speak for the Social Democrats.

SECRET

Page 2 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

NPD Representation in West German States

![NPD Representation in Schleswig-Holstein]
5.8% (4 seats)
23 April '67
SCHLESWIG-
HOLSTEIN

![NPD Representation in Hamburg]
8.8%
(seats)
1 Oct. '67
HAMBURG

![NPD Representation in Bremen]
3.9% (seats)
27 March '66
BREMEN

![NPD Representation in Lower saxony]
7% (10 seats)
4 June '67
LOWER
SAXONY

NORTH RHINE-
WESTPHALIA

![NPD Representation in Hesse]
7.9% (8 seats)
6 Nov '66
HESSE

![NPD Representation in Saarland and Rhineland-Palatinate]
6.9% (4 seats)
23 April '67
SAAR
RHINELAND-
PALATINATE

![NPD Representation in Baden-Wurttemberg]
9.8% (12 seats)
28 April '68
BADEN-
WUERTTEMBERG

![NPD Representation in Bavaria]
7.4% (15 seats)
20 Nov. '66
BAVARIA

SECRET
Page 3          SPECIAL REPORT          31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

The participation by na-
tional figures reflected a feel-
ing in Bonn that this state elec-
tion, the last before the 1969
federal election, might influence
national politics. The analogy
to the federal scene was pointed
up by the existence in Baden-.
Wuerttemberg of a coalition of
Christian Democrats and Social
Democrats, similar to that in
Bonn.

## Reaction to Student Riots

In looking for explanations
of the NPD gains, German observ-
ers have emphasized the public
reaction against the Easter stu-
dent rioting, and dissatisfaction
with the federal grand coalition.
Conservatives lean to the former
explanation, while students and
trade unionists stress the latter.
The NPD did not receive less than
6 percent in any electoral dis-
trict. This suggests that the
sentiment expressed by the vote
is widespread, and may extend
throughout the FRG.

Reaction to student rioting
probably contributed something,
but this aspect seems to have
been exaggerated as a factor in
NPD gains. In Heidelberg, the
NPD vote rose to 11.9 percent,
but in three other university
towns, the party's vote fell
below the state average of 9.8
percent. In industrial Esslingen,
where there had been two stu-
dent riots, the NPD only attained
9 percent. Some voters may have
been influenced by student dem-
onstrations to transfer their
votes from the SPD to the CDU,
whose spokesmen have generally ad-
vocated a stern treatment of
rioters.

At the same time, the "new
left" certainly failed to win
popular support. The Democratic
Left, supported by radical stu-
dents, won only 2.3 percent in
the state as a whole, while mak-
ing better showings in certain
university and industrial local-
ities. While the Democratic
Left's state-wide average was bet-
ter than the far left had at-
tained in recent elections under
other names, it fell below the
last, low figure gained by the
Communists before they became
illegal: 3.2 percent.

## Hostility to the Grand Coalition?

There is dissatisfaction
with the coalition within the
CDU, and it can be assumed that
some of the party's right wing
voted for the National Democrats.
The Socialists, however, suffered
the greater loss. Left-of-center
Socialists often complain that
the party has compromised its
principles and lost public favor.
There is an undercurrent of feel-
ing in these quarters that the
party has endangered German democ-
racy by abandoning its long-
time position of opposition and
entering into collaboration with
the CDU.

Although the SPD has pro-
vided much of the impetus to the
grand coalition's economic and
foreign policies, and although
the coalition in Baden-Wuerttem-
berg has generally functioned
well, dissatisfaction undoubtedly
exists among idealistic members
of the left and among tradition-
ally class-conscious union mem-
bers. Middle class voters of
this persuasion probably turned

SECRET

Page 4 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

to the Free Democratic Party, which has assumed the role of respectable opposition. The connection between this left-liberal criticism and the NPD gains on 28 April is not immediately apparent.

Some commentators including some Socialists, conclude that many SPD voters defected to the NPD. The respected Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung fudged some of the election data to support its argument that workers had gone over to the NPD, but a more careful analysis has shown that the NPD did indeed win above-average support in some working-class neighborhoods.

Many old Socialists and trade unionists, such as Willi Bleicher, the powerful boss of the metalworkers in this state, are cool to the coalition and hostile to intellectuals, and some of them are repelled by anarchic student leftism. Even so, most workers are unlikely under conditions of full employment to cast what they would consider a neo-Nazi vote; certainly Bleicher would never favor such action. SFD electoral losses would seem to be due less to defection to the NPD than to the failure of lower-level SPD functionaries, apathetic, or even hostile toward the coalition, to get out the vote, and to the failure of many trade union and normally SPD voters to go to the polls.

In traditionally socialist Mannheim, only 58 percent of those entitled to vote turned out. SPD percentages dropped 14 percent in one district and 13 percent in another. The percentage of NPD strength rose to 12.1, 10.9, and 11.2 in the three city districts, but working class votes would not be needed to provide these percentages, especially in the face of a low SPD turnout. These votes probably came mainly from the CDU, the FDP, or from those who had not voted before.

NPD Activity Pays Off

The NPD organization worked hard during the campaign, conducting more meetings than all the other parties put together. The party has overcome its former inexperience and disunity, and is developing into a well-oiled political machine. The organization fields speakers and provides canned speeches and propaganda materials to local groups. The NPD's heritage is not purely Nazi. It encompasses more respectable antecedents, such as the Deutschnationaler (German Nationalists) and other conservative elements. In the interests of avoiding a government ban, the National Democratic Party shuns blatantly Nazi appeals and tactics.

Adolf von Thadden, the national leader of the NPD, is a smooth personality from a Junker family who denies charges that he was an active Nazi. He seems to model himself more on De Gaulle than on Hitler. The Baden-Wuerttemberg leader of the party, Wilhelm Gutmann, is a former Nazi. During "the good old days," he was Buergermeister of Tiengen on the Swiss border, where he sponsored anti-Semitic

SECRET
Page 5 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

activities in 1938. He refused to permit the raising of white flags when the Allied forces arrived in 1945. Despite his past, he won 15,000 votes in Karlsruhe. In one commune in the northern end of the state, the NPD gained an absolute majority with 55 percent of the vote; this was the home of an NPD candidate named Valentin Goetz, who had been voted out as Buergermeister two years before.

The NPD won its greatest relative successes in three northern districts: Oehringen (14.8 percent), Crailsheim (14.5 percent), and Tauberbischofsheim (14.3 percent). The first two of these districts are largely protestant; the latter is predominantly Catholic. This northern area, and especially its Hohenlohe section, is filled with dissatisfied small farmers, who now face Common Market competition and who have recently suffered the loss of a state subsidy on milk. Rural dissatisfaction provides opportunities for the NPD, but this is not a promising base for a mass movement, particularly since the farm population in the Federal Republic has dropped in the last ten years from 20 percent to 11 percent. Another important voting factor in this northern area is the relatively high proportion of refugees, who were probably aroused by recent statements by Willy Brandt about the Oder-Neisse line and by the failure of the CDU to react more forcefully against Brandt.

As was the case in the early 1930s, overwhelmingly Catholic areas, where the Church influences its members politically, had the lowest right extremist vote. One overwhelmingly Protestant district, Freudenstadt, also produced a

> [Figure: Photograph of Adolf von Thadden]
> ![photo of Adolf von Thadden]

> [Figure: Photograph of Wilhelm Gutmann]
> ![photo of Wilhelm Gutmann]

SECRET
Page 6 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

low NPD vote. A postelection
poll of 1967 voters in Bromen
showed that, unlike the Hitler
movement, the National Democrats
do not yet attract many women
and youth. More than two thirds
of the voters for the party,
were males, and the strongest
participation was in the 45 to
60 age bracket.

## FDP Gains and Losses

The FDP profited from its
position in the opposition. Ralf
Dahrendorf, a sociologist from
the University of Konstanz with
an international reputation, has
recently entered the party and
has assumed a leading role, in-
fluencing the FDP in a loftward
direction and attracting left-
liberal support. In the Stuttgart
district where he was a candidate,
the party vote rose by 6 percent.
On the other hand, the new pat-
tern is not acceptable to many
old members of this tradition-
ally business-oriented party, who
looking askance at Dahrendorf's
readiness to debate and discuss
with Rudi Dutschke and other rad-
ical students. Two of the three
districts with heaviest NPD gains
also showed heavy FDP losses, as
did some other former FDP areas
of strength.

## Perspectives on the Vote

The over-all picture appears
to be that while both the Chris-
tian Democrats and the Free Demo-
crats lost to the NPD, they gained
at the expense of the Socialists.
The Socialists suffered from
apathy and incurred some loss to
both the NPD and Democratic Left.
The NPD probably garnered some
new and uncommitted votes. It
is fortunate for the SPD leaders
in Bonn that the annual party
congress came before the Baden-
Wuerttemberg election. It is
hardly likely that the congress
would now defeat a motion with-
holding endorsement of the coali-
tion, as it did by a four-vote
margin in March. Assuming the
SPD remains faithful to the
Bonn coalition now, the prospects
are for further erosion of its
strength and for greater diffi-
culties within its ranks.

Meanwhile, the NPD probably
will continue to grow in in-
fluence. It now is probably
stronger in some other areas
than in Baden-Wuerttemberg. A
change from proportional rep-
resentation to single-member..
constituencies, which might have

Baden-
Wuerttemberg

Mannheim

Heidelberg

Heilbronn.

Karlsruhe

Pforzheim

Freudenstade

Freiburg

Tiengen
Tauber-
bischofsheim

Ochringen

Crailsheim

STUTTGART
Esslingen

Tuebingen

Ulm

Constanz

Page 7 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

served to block NPD growth, has
now become even less acceptable
than before to the SPD, which
would have lost three-fifths of
its Baden-Wuerttemberg seats
under this system.

A ban of the NPD appears
unlikely unless the party com-
mits some flagrant violation of
accepted rules. A Bonn press of-
fice spokesman has stated that
the government will seek a po-
litical debate with the NPD, and
not a ban. On present form, the
NPD may get 40 seats in the 1969
Bundestag elections. An attempt
to set a higher minimum per-
centage of votes (present mini-
mum: five percent) for Bundestag
representation would arouse.
violent FPD opposition, and does
not seem to be under serious con-
sideration at the moment. It
would violate German tradition,
and might produce a reaction in
favor of the NPD, enabling it
to overstep even the new margin.

Although the growth of
the NPD is disturbing, alarm does
not seem to be warranted. In the
early 1930s, Germany suffered
from depression and high unem-
ployment, and had bitter memories
of a recent inflation which wiped
out savings. Powerful elements
in the government and society,
including President von Hinden-
berg, the army, the courts, and
heavy industry, were highly re-
actionary and either cool or hos-
tile to republican democracy--as
were the professors and students.
Racism was rampant and more or
less respectable, and unwilling-
ness to accept defeat in World.
War I provided endless opportu-
nities for demagoguery. All
these conditions are now vir-
tually absent. The defeat in
1945, and subsequent disclosures,
work to discredit any real Nazi
manifestations. Moreover, the
fact that no other state will
elect a new assembly before the
1969 federal elections may help
to prevent a real bandwagon de-
velopment. It must be emphasized
that the NPD is still a small
party, if no longer a mere splin-
ter group.

## The Coalition Problem

German observers tend to be
more worried about the effect of
the NPD showing on foreign opin-
ion than about the increase in
NPD strength itself, and their
greatest concern is over the pros-
pects for the grand coalition,
resulting from the SPD losses.
A Baden-Wuerttemberg SPD conven-
tion voted on 18 May against con-
tinuing the coalition in Stuttgart,
and the old state SPD leaders
resigned. This would seem to
make the prospects for the Bonn
coalition less favorable.

At the same time, the FDP
appears not to be in a mood to
return to a coalition in either
Bonn or Stuttgart. Dahrendorf
has suggested that there might be
a CDU minority government in the
state. State CDU leaders may,
however, prefer to call new elec-
tions if a coalition cannot be
formed. In this event, they
would appeal for an absolute ma-
jority from the voters. If they
got it and if the NPD vote de-
clined, this would be encouraging,
but new elections might also have
a less favorable outcome.

SECRET

Page 8 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SECRET

If the 1969 federal election follows the pattern of the 28-April election, the same problems will arise in Bonn. With this kind of a breakdown of the vote, the FDP and the SPD together cannot form a majority, and a refusal on the part of both of them to join the CDU means that the latter cannot organize a majority government either--unless the CDU invites NPD collaboration, which it is far from ready to do.

A collapse of the grand coalition in Bonn either before or after 1969 and a return by the SPD to opposition positions would signify more than a passing cabinet crisis. In the past, parties tended to harden into intransigence, committed to particular ideological and material interests, and unable to reach pragmatic compromises with each other. In recent years, West German politicians have tried to break with this tradition and to work on the consensus principle. A failure of these efforts would have serious implications. If--as does not seem likely at present--the three major parties were unable to form a majority government, this might lead to severe instability and the discrediting of parliamentary government.

Bonn and Weimar

Many misleading analogies have been drawn between the Bonn and Weimar republics. One Weimar precedent may help, however, to explain why some observers view the coalition problem seriously. In March 1930, another grand coalition with SPD participation collapsed over the question of cuts in unemployment insurance, leading to the formation of a conservative majority government under Heinrich Bruening. Bruening was later replaced by the reactionary Franz von Papen, who in turn was followed first by a wire-pulling general, Kurt von Schleicher, and then by Adolf Hitler. The worst aspect of the SPD withdrawal was that it made the parliament ineffective and powerless.

Once minority government was embarked on, supported by presidential prerogatives, there was no effective test for legitimacy except the will of Hindenburg by then susceptible and old. The Nazis ultimately came to power, not by a majority vote, but through the paralysis and impotence of the constitutional system and through intrigues in the presidential palace on the part of those, especially Papen and Schleicher, who thought they could "use" Nazi mass support.

In contrast to the 30s, the presidential powers now are far weaker, and aside from all the other factors inhibiting a recurrence, the Weimar precedent itself must influence SPD leaders in Bonn. They are completely committed personally to the present coalition. A decision to go into opposition is unlikely under Brandt and Wehner.

*The absence of executive emergency powers is not of course without dangers. In a bitter parliamentary deadlock, an illegal assumption of power, perhaps by extragovernmental elements, might be the only way out.

SECRET

Page 9 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

Another possibility might be a left-wing withdrawal from the SPD, although the leadership for a dissident faction has yet to emerge. This might provide a healthy outlet for criticism of the system without a turn to minority rule. Unlike the early 1930s, virtually all West German politicians now would do their best to maintain a functioning constitutional system. Real dangers will probably not arise unless, as in the late Weimar period, the government finds itself confronted with economic or political problems which seem to defy compromise settlement or rational solution:

Immediate Prospects

Assuming that the Bonn coalition lasts until the 1969 elections, its leading members may still modify their policies somewhat in the light of the Baden-Wuerttemberg experience. The adverse vote of the refugees in the recent election could act as a brake on the policy of detente with Czechoslovakia and Poland, although there is no sign of this as yet. Chancellor Kiesinger has attributed NPD gains partly to "years of agitation against our own history and against healthy self-confidence," which suggests that he may try to sound a more nationalistic note. To the extent to which the results continue to be attributed to student activities, this will strengthen the demand for firmness. Even before the election, Brandt sent a telegram to SPD state headquarters, advising that speakers should react "completely hard" against student demonstrations.

Although the antistudent reaction does not seem to have been as important a factor as some have believed it to be, constant violence and provocation on the part of the students, accompanied by constant press attention, could lead to severe official or unofficial counteraction. This, in turn, could bring more serious student violence, perhaps with the support of other elements.

Some matters of student concern have appeal for others. Thus students and many trade unionists oppose emergency laws, and this question is again being agitated. Because of the Nazi experience, there is widespread aversion among left-of-center elements to the use of force in the name of "order," however great the provocation. But also because of the Nazi experience, a really large increase in NPD votes does not seem likely in the 1969 election, or in an earlier new election in Baden-Wuerttemberg, should that come to pass. (CONFIDENTIAL)

SECRET

Page 10 SPECIAL REPORT 31 May 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

Secret

Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SCANS CORD

1.  *Landtag Elections 1965* -- NPO's First Effort 664,157 votes = .5%

2.  13 March 1966, communal Elections, Schleswig-Holstein. (NPD Hqs directive not to participate. A few did)

    In 11 committees where NPD ran candidates, averaged 10.5% of vote compared with 6% in same towns in 1965.

3.  13 March 1966, Bavarian communal Elections NPD minor effort concentrated only in Franconia.

    1.6 % of total Bavarian vote date in

    Middle Franconia = 5.%

    Ansbach - 5.1%

    Erlangen - 3.2%

    Nurnberg - 7.%

    Schwabach - 5.6%

    Upper Franconia

    Bayreuth - 8.%

    Coburg - 5.%

    Kulmbach - 5.%

4.  27 March 1966 Hamburg Burgerschaft Situation 3 + 3 village mayors

    3.9 % (1.5% in 1965)

    no candidates elected

5.  10 July 1966 Northrhein-Westphalia Landtag Election No NPD candidates elected *novo entered.*

6.  16 October 1966 Berlin Election (Communal Council) 8.0% (NSA) 2 seats

7.  6 November 1966 Hesse Landtag Elections .5% (28,530 votes = 7.6%+

    8 seats in Landtag.

    Marburg, Wiesbaden, Darmstadt and Giessen *circa* 10%

    VF/M = 9.1%

8.  20 November 1966 Bavarian Landtag Elections votes= 7.1%

    15 Seats in Landtag

9.  23 April 1967 Rheinland-Pfalatine 4 Seats, 6.9 % of vote

10. 23 April 1967 Schleswig-Holstein 4 Seats, 5.7 % of vote

11. 4 June 1967 Lower Saxony 10 Seats, 7 % of vote

12. 11 October 1967 Bremen Burgerschaft 8 Seats, 8.8 % of vote

13. 28 April 1968 Baden-Wurttemberg 12 Seats, 9.8 % of vote


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# Secret

Ne Foreign Dissem

![Central Intelligence Agency seal]

DIRECTORATE OF
INTELLIGENCE

The National Democratic Party in West Germany

Special Report

# WEEKLY REVIEW

Secret

NΩ 310

9 June 1967

SC No. 00773/67B


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

# THE NATIONAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY IN WEST GERMANY

The poor showing of the ultranationalistic National Democratic Party (NPD) in recent elections in several West German states clearly disproves the party's claim of providing an acceptable alternative to the policies and programs of the country's major parties. The NPD's failure to maintain the momentum suggested by the successes scored in two state elections last fall is directly attributable both to its own well-publicized internal dissension and to voter preference for the Christian Democrats and Socialists deriving from the image of vigor and decisiveness imparted by their "grand coalition" under Chancellor Kiesinger. Barring some serious reversal in the fortunes of the Kiesinger government--which is unlikely--it is doubtful that the NPD will be any more successful than other fringe groups have been in seeking to rally latent right-radical sentiment in Germany and revive it as a dynamic political force.

## Election Setbacks

The NPD has claimed wide attention both in Germany and abroad and led many observers to conclude that it was a force to be reckoned with. Within two and a half years of its founding in November 1964, the party elected representatives to the legislatures in five of West Germany's ten states (11 counting West Berlin). In elections this April the party was expected to obtain close to 10 percent of the vote in Rhineland-Palatinate and 12 to 15 percent in Schleswig-Holstein but actually won only four seats in each parliament with 6.9 and 5.8 percent of the vote respectively. In the 4 June election in the party's "home base bastion" of Lower Saxony, the NPD's performance was similarly unimpressive--7 sercent of the vote and 10 Landtag seats..

Emphasis by party leaders on their success in gaining representation in all the states where the party has competed during the past year has not masked their disappointment that the NPD's momentum of growth has leveled off. The party's failure to make a good showing in Schleswig-Holstein and Lower Saxony--areas considered particularly susceptible to nationalist appeals--is especially damaging, and raises fundamental doubt about the party's future pros-.pects.

SECRET

Page 1 SPECIAL REPORT 9 Jun 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET

NPD Representation in West German States

![pie chart of NPD representation in Schleswig-Holstein: 5.8% (4 seats)]

BREMEN
HAMBURG

LOWER
SAXONY

![pie chart of NPD representation in Lower Saxony: 7% (10 seats)]

NORTH RHINE
WESTPHALIA

![pie chart of NPD representation in Hesse: 7.9% (8 seats)]
HESSE

![pie chart of NPD representation in Rhineland-Palatinate: 6.9% (4 seats)]
RHINELAND-
PALATINATE
SAAR

BADEN-
WUERTTEMBERG

![pie chart of NPD representation in Bavaria: 7.4% (15 seats)]
BAVARIA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

## Origins and Early Successes

Formed from the remnants of the defunct German Reich Party (DRP)--one of a number of ultra-nationalistic splinter groups which have dotted the political landscape of postwar Germany--the NPD quickly established a political apparatus capable of functioning throughout the country. The new party soon distinguished itself by its relative success in attracting the support of other ultranationalistic elements and a variety of political malcontents. Earlier attempts by other groups to unite disparate nationalists invariably had foundered on personal rivalries and tactical disagreements. Some were no more than platforms for self-expression by leaders advocating a particular set of extremist notions. Even the most successful, the Socialist Reich Party (SRP), which at its high water mark obtained 11 percent of the vote in the Lower Saxony Landtag elections in 1951, was unable to establish effective working relations with rival rightist groups before it was outlawed by the West German supreme court in 1952.

During its first year, the NPD encountered many of the problems experienced by its predecessors. The party was unable to put on an effective campaign for the September 1965 national elections and obtained only 2 percent of the votes--short of the 5-percent minimum required for representation in the Bundestag. In local elections in Bavaria and Schleswig-Holstein in March 1966, however, the NPD showed that it could command pockets of strength. In the Bavarian cities of Nuremberg and Bayreuth, it received between 7 and 10 percent of the vote and elected representatives to the local governing councils. These gains were facilitated by concentrating the party's efforts in selected areas such as the Protestant centers of Middle and Upper Franconia in heavily Catholic Bavaria.

The first clear demonstration that the NPD could attract more than the ultranationalist vote came two weeks later in Hamburg, where the party nearly doubled its vote as compared with the Bundestag election the year before. Although the NPD failed to elect any deputies, the Christian Democrats and the Socialists were concerned about its ability to secure even 3.9 percent of the vote. The threat to the traditional third party, the conservative Free Democrats (FDP) became apparent. The FDP fell a third below its 1965 vote and lost 4 of its 12 seats in the Hamburg city council. Profiting from a decline in the economy which was already under way and the increasing public disenchantment with the leadership of then Chancellor Erhard in Bonn, the NPD accelerated both its organizational effort and its public relations campaign.

The stage was then set for the party's breakthrough in the Hesse and Bavaria state elections

SECRET

Page 3 SPECIAL REPORT 9 Jun 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# SECRET

last fall in which it won 7.9 and 7.4 percent of the vote and elected 8 and 15 deputies respectively. In Bavaria the NPD emerged as the only small party in the Landtag, causing the FDP to lose its representation in the legislature for the first time in its history. By underlining the weakness of the FCP, the election outcome contributed to the formation of the grand coalition government in Bonn by the Christian Democrats and the Socialists.

For the major parties, the NPD's successes had disturbing implications. In contrast to its various predecessors, the NPD appeared capable of mobilizing urban as well as rural support and of altering the general trend long evident in most West German elections toward a two-party system. In Hesse, the combined vote of the Christian Democrats and Socialists was a lower percentage of the total vote than in the previous election four years earlier. Still more significantly, however, Hesse and Bavaria provided further evidence of the NPD's ability to attract "pro- test" votes from various dis- affected lower-middle-class elements including small businessmen and farmers unhappy with their lot in present-day Germany.

## Basic Characteristics and Sources of Support

In spite of its direct lineage from the old German Reich Party, the NPD has tried to dispel the impression among the general public that it is the spiritual heir of Hitler's National Socialists. The party has sought acceptance as a legitimate political party and insists that it intends to function within the established democratic order. Party spokesmen maintain that it differs from the established parties primarily in its allegedly superior devotion to the national interest, which they accuse the governing parties in Bonn of having failed to protect. The NPD says it offers the voter a genuine choice between bankrupt policies of the major parties and a return to national morality.

As much as some NPD support- ers might wish to play down the party's Nazi associations, how- ever, it has been clearly estab- lished that the leadership con- sists of a nucleus of former Nazis, who have been active in neo-Nazi parties throughout the postwar years. According to police reports, some 2,000 of the estimated 25,000 members of the NPD belonged to the Nazi party before 1933. This ratio is roughly eight times that for the public as a whole. The party has lost libel suits in which it has chal- lenged charges of neo-Nazism. The German Interior Ministry notes the parallels in political outlook and philosophy between the NPD and the Nazis, and main- tains that the party's activities "approach" unconstitutionality. In the words of one former party member, the NPD is made up of people "who have forgotten nothing and learned nothing" from Germany's past.

SECRET

Page 4 SPECIAL REPORT 9 Jun 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

The Bonn government is generally reluctant, however, to ban the NPD, believing that it would be imprudent to drive the ultra-rightists underground. If the NPD were to score impressive new successes in future elections, however, the resulting concern in the major parties might prompt a reconsideration of this policy. Interior Minister Luecke favors banning the party as soon as enough evidence can be obtained to assure successful court action. It is also possible that new NPD gains would motivate the established parties to make proposed changes in the electoral law that would make it more difficult for the NPD to obtain Bundestag representation.

Although the NPD program is strongly reminiscent of Hitlerian National Socialism, the party's electoral supporters in Hesse and Bavaria also include persons who have no prior Nazi affiliations or any particular susceptibility to Nazism per se. It has managed to attract impulsive youngsters, as well as political malcontents of all ages. Its membership includes individuals from a broad range of occupations. The NPD's special appeal among the lower-middle-class, and particularly among the small business men and farmers is reinforced by the economic squeeze these groups are experiencing as a result of government economy measures. In Hesse and Bavaria, the party did especially well in areas noted for traditional German nationalism and in areas which are predominantly Protestant. Many NPD adherents are expellees from the territories lost at the end of World War II.

The makeup of the formal NPD membership is not radically different in age or occupation group from a cross section of the general public. However, there are certain characteristics of NPD supporters which set them apart from supporters of the three major parties. The NPD tends to attract a somewhat larger number of older persons as well as young adults, and the number of lower middle class members, including pensioners, is disproportionately large. Formal membership among students, however, is very small and only 350 of a total of 244,000 university students are on the party rolls..

There is no evidence that the NPD receives significant financial support from German industrialists. It is, however, able to operate in the black. The sound state of its finances is in part a result of its practice of charging admission to its rallies. This serves the double function of making the rank and file feel that they have a stake in the party and of making it necessary for its opponents to pay for the right to heckle. The party also derives considerable sums from membership dues, subscriptions to party publications, and donations from members and sympathizers.

SECRET

Page 5 SPECIAL REPORT 9 Jun 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SECRET

> [Figure] Party leader Von Thadden at Second NPD Congress at Karlsruhe, June 1966
> ![Party leader Von Thadden at Second NPD Congress at Karlsruhe, June 1966]

> [Figure] NPD audience: a characteristic cross section
> ![NPD audience: a characteristic cross section]
> 66827 667 CIA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Rumors of clandestine fi-
nancial support from the Commu-
nists or from sympathizers among
Nazi emigrants to Latin America
have not been confirmed.

Despite NPD claims of wide-
spread sympathy in the West German
armed forces, there is no evidence
of this. German security offi-
cials estimate that no more than
2 percent of armed forces members
are card-carrying NPD members.
Since the NPD is a legal political
organization, military leaders
are constrained from openly in-
fluencing members of the armed
forces to oppose it.

Many Germans are probably
reluctant openly to admit their
support for an organization like
the NPD. It is significant, how-
ever, that only 6 percent of
respondents to a national opinion
poll in January 1967 indicated a
preference for the NPD.

### Leadership Problems

The most notable single
handicap confronting the NPD is
the weakness of its leadership.
None of its leaders possesses any
great talent or stature. Cer-
tainly no individual with Hitler's
demagogic genius has yet ap-
peared. The absence of strong
leadership in what has been called
a "fuehrer-oriented party" has
left it divided and weakened by
fractionalism. This was clearly
demonstrated in March 1967 wher.
then party chairman Fritz Thieien
and Deputy Chairman Adolf von
Thadden engaged in a public feud
which further damaged the party's
reputation. An outgrowth of long-
standing personal antagonism, the
dispute was triggered by Thielen's
resistance to Von Thadden's at-
tempted take-over as party chair-
man in Lower Saxony. Thielen
claimed that Von Thadden's elec-
tion to the state chairmanship
had been illegal and would hurt
the party's reputation. The par-
ty's federal executive, however,
turned the tables on Thielen and
not only voted to reinstate Von
Thadden but also to drop Thielen
from the national chairmanship and
expel him from the party. Thielen
clung to the helm under a temporary
court order until finally throwing
in the sponge in early May with
an announcement of his formation
of a new, rival part', the Na-
tional Peoples Party (NVP).

More of an archconservative
than a neo-Nazi, Thielen was never
more than a figurehead. Real au-
thority and leadership--as well as
ideological guidance--was provided
by Von Thadden. Von Thadden is.
a 45-year-old native of Pomerania,
a member of a prominent and aris-
tocratic Prussian family, a number
of whose members were prominent
in the anti-Nazi resistance. Al-
though Von Thadden applied for
Nazi party membership he appar-
ently was never formally admitted.
An ardent nationalist, Von Thadden
aspires to become a German De
Gaulle rather than a re-creator of
the German Reich.

Other leaders of some promi-
nence include Otto Hess, party
propaganda chief, and Waldemar
Schuetz, editor of the NPD's


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

official weekly, Deutsche
Nachrichten. Both were active
Nazis.

Thielen's departure clears
the way for Von Thadden formally
to take over leadership of the
NPD. It is doubtful that Thielen
has the personal force or follow-.
ing to organize a party with
significant strength. The impact
of the new party on the NPD will
probably be small since the bulk
of the NPD membership appears to
prefer the leadership and ideology
of the Von Thadden group. On
the other hand, the strengthening
of extremist tendencies within the
NPD signaled by the triumph of
Von Thadden may hurt the party's
interests in the long run. The
result is also likely to assist
those actively seeking a formal
government crackdown on the party.

Program

In addition to its leadership
difficulties, another failing of
the NPD is its inability as yet to
offer a clear, positive program
relevant to existing problems.
Xenophobic and opportunistic, the
NPD feeds upon nostalgia for an
older German nationalism, discon-
tent with the existing social or-
der, and Germany's international
standing and frustration over the
fact that reunification remains
as distant a prospect as ever.
Its stated objectives are ill de-
fined, when not deliberately am-
biguous, and are sometimes incon-
sistent. Its electoral approach
is generally negative and destruc-
tively critical rather than af-
firmative. Its principal targets
include foreign interests and cul-
ture which undermine old values
and "de-Germanize the fatherland."
It attacks the renunciation by
those in power of what the NPD
regards as justified Germán ob-
jectives. It deplores what it
considers the miseducation and
corruption of youth, "crime in the
streets," foreign aid, and the
competition of foreign workers..

The NPD demands an end to
German dependence on the US and
calls for the revival of German
national consciousness. It at-
tempts to draw a parallel between
West German - US relations and
those between the East German
regime and the USSR. In order to
free Germany from foreign domina-
tion, NPD spokesmen maintain,
American "occupation" forces must
go, although not before the with-
drawal of Russian troops, which
the NFD would have occur simultane-
ously with that of US troops.
Germany must again become master
of its own fate, party leaders in-
sist, and the "lie" of war guilt
and war crimes trials must be
ended and a new German general
staff created. A key demand is
that the reunification of Germany
cannot be limited to uniting West
and East Germany but must include
the lands beyond the Oder-Neisse
border now held by Poland. Al-
though it does not advocate the
use of force to achieve this ob-
jective, the party holds out hope
that recovery will be possible by
a Machiavellian deal of some scrt.
NPD spokesmen at present renounce
a national nuclear capability for
Germany.

SECRET

Page 8 SFECIAL REFORT 9 Jun 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

The party puts forth slogans proclaiming "Germany for the Germans" and "Europe for the Europeans." Indeed, the NPD favors a united Europe somewhat along the lines advocated by De Gaulle. Europe, it holds, should be completely independent of the US, and possess its own nuclear deterrent. It should be built on a Franco-German alliance that smaller European countries sooner or later would have to join. The NPD would welcome the decay of NATO as signaling the end of sterile policies which do not serve Germany's real interests.

In seeking to gain the broadest popular acceptance, the party avoids affirming the more extreme aspects of Nazi ideology. There is, for example, no obvious anti-Semitism in the party program and Jews technically could become party members. The private attitudes of the leadership, however, are said to resemble traditional Nazi anti-Semitism closely. The NPD makes vague references, moreover, to the importance of "blood ties," rejects evidence relating to the Nazi extermination policy, makes derogatory references to the Jews in the party press, and denounces aid to Israel.

In recent campaigning in Lower Saxony, NPD spokesmen shifted tactics somewhat by no longer stressing issues obviously associated with the Nazi period such as war guilt and reparations. Instead, they sought to exploit current grievances including the economic recession, unemployment, lack of progress on reuni-fication, and what they called the unreliability of NATO.

## Future Prospects

The NPD's failure to maintain the momentum of last fall's successes in this year's state elections in Schleswig-Holstein, Rhineland-Palatinate, and Lower Saxony is a serious blow to the party's hopes. The squabble among the leadership apparently reinforced the feeling among uncommitted elements that casting a protest vote for the NPD was not worthwhile under present circumstances. The widespread discontent among farmers over government economy measures did not result in a significant shift of votes to the NPD. Moreover, there has been a strong resurgence of general confidence in the Bonn government. Although the NPD benefited last fall from the popular dissatisfaction with the Erhard government, the grand coalition headed by CDU Chancellor Kiesinger has displayed vigor and decisiveness which has been rewarded at the polls.

Even if the NPD were to follow its forerunners into oblivion it would not mark the end of rightist extremism. A portion of the German electorate will remain receptive to this kind of appeal. In the absence of a party such as the NPD, right-wing voters tend to give their support to one of the insignificant splinter parties, or to one of the more conservative established parties, such as the FDP, when they vote at all.

SECRET

Page 9 SPECIAL REPORT 9 Jun 6.7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

It is possible--although in- creasingly unlikely--that the NPD could turn out to resemble other parties of a national-conserva- tive stamp. Despite the radical views of some of their members, such groups have managed to op- erate without subversive mani- festations. The 'German Party (DP), for example, which had been rep- resented in several North German state legislatures and in the Bundestag conducted itself in a responsible fashion.

The NPD at present draws a good deal of this traditional right-wing vote from the old Refu- gee Party, the DP, and small con- servative regional parties such as the Bavarian Party. The total extremist vote, however, has in- creased very little since the establishment of the NPD. Es- timates of the extent of hard-core ultranátionalist sentiment in Germany vary between 5 and 15 per- cent of the electorate. Under present conditions this does not constitute a threat to German dem- ocratic institutions and is not greater than the degree of ex- tremist sentiment in other West- ern. European countries.

## Outlook

Assuming the NPD survives the current period of internal strife, its potential for further growth beyond its present 6- to 8-percent range appears to be limited under conditions now pre- vailing in West Germany. The NPD is still capable of capitalizing on circumstances which might pre- sent themselves as a result of a protracted economic recession or major political blunders which would discredit the present gov- ernment leadership. The outcome of recent state elections, how- ever, tends to confirm that the overwhelming majority of German voters continues to prefer the moderate, albeit increasingly independent and nationalist, pol- icies of the major parties and the government, and rejects the radical alternatives advocated by the NPD. (SECRET)

Page 10 SPECIAL REPORT 9 Jun 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

Secret

Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains. Information affecting the National Defense of the limited States within the meaning of the Fopionate Laws. Title
14. U.SC. See 793 and 194. the transmission revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY West Germany REPORT NO. CS DB-312/00003-67

SUBJECT BfV Program to Monitor and Counter DATE DISTR. 5 JAN 1967
the Activities of the National
Democratic Party

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES

DATE OF
INFO 23 November 1966

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. Germany, Bonn (25 November 1966) FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED FORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIνε.

SOURCE: A qualified American official from a senior official of the
West German Federal Office for the Protection of the Con-
stitution (BfV). This official is responsible for monitoring.
the activities of right radical organizations throughout
West Germany. The information is probably true.

1. (Summary: The West German Federal Office for the Protection
   of the Constitution (BIV) and its regional affiliates
   (LfV) have undertaken a program to monitor and counter
   the activities of the National Democratic Party (NPD).
   Included in this program are efforts to penetrate the NPD
   at all its levels, to monitor its membership and finances,
   and to counter its influence.)

2. Report: For a number of years the BfV has been engaged in
   penetrating and monitoring the activities of right radical
   organizations. Since the establishment of the NPD in ego,
   1964, the BfV has made a concerted effort to penetrate it
   at both the national and regional levels. This effort has
   resulted in the recruitment of about 60 sources with access
   to the NPD organizations at all levels. In several cases
   the BfV or LfV have been able to recruit local NPD county
   chairmen and in six Laender have access to the minutes and
   files of the Land organizations. The BfV has also penetrated
   the national headquarters of the NPD in Hannover.

3. Through its penetration of the national organization, the
   BfV has been able to obtain and photograph the entire mem-
   bership rolls, which currently contain about 20,000 names.
   The national list has been augmented by additional member-
   ship applications obtained via penetrations of the
   Land organizations. The BfV is currently in the process
   of tracing all of these membership applications against
   the master Nazi Party membership files at the American

STATE DIA ARMY # NAVY SECRET /Continued/
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM
AIR NSA AX OCR

Excluded from automatic
doungrading and
dertansdination

(Note, freld distribution-indicaled by ".")

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

| FI/D/E |  1  | E/G/INT |  1  |
| ------ | :-: | ------- | :-: |
| E/R    |  1  | E/G/CE  |     |
| E/CR/R |  2  | E/SAS   |     |
| E/G/R  |  1  |         |     |
| E/G/R/ |  2  |         |     |

TE 2, CI 2, FI 4, EUR 9, DO/H 1.

EGN-3098
CAVATA-1

NO LIAISON COORDINATING RELEASING
LIAISON 32 HM
suj


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

Page 2

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM
CSDB-312/00003-67

controlled Berlin Document Center. Although this tracing activity has not been completed and is handicapped by lack of personnel at the Berlin Document Center, the BfV estimates its current file on the NPD is far more accurate than the files at the NPD headquarters. Because of its access to the Berlin Document Center, the BfV will eventually have a better estimate of the number of NPD members who are former Nazi Party members than does the NPD itself.

4. The BfV is also making a concerted effort to obtain documentary evidence on the NPD's sources of income. The recruitment efforts to do this are directed at spotting and recruiting clerical help who work in NPD offices and have access to files. Information in the BfV's possession to date, which includes considerable documentary evidence regarding finances, indicates that the party is not receiving any substantial financial assistance from abroad. The principal sources of funds are as follows:

a.  The monthly DM 3.- membership dues. For the 20,000 members, this amounts to DM 60,000 per month or DM 720,000 a year.

b. Subscription fees for publications.

c. Single donations from financially well-to-do members and supporters.

d. Admission fees for political rallies. The BfV has registered, since May 1966 when the NPD began its campaign in Bavaria, a total of more than 2000 political rallies in Bavaria. Although at times more than one third of those attending such rallies were estimated to be opposed to the NPD, everyone attending the rally paid an admission fee. The BfV estimates that the NPD has been able through the above sources of income to collect from DM 3,000,000 to DM 4,000,000. The LfV are watching this funding quite closely, particularly for evidence of financing from Communist countries. Thus far they have been unable to substantiate the existence of any such support. Although there is no firm evidence of actual financial support of the NPD from Communist sources, the BfV is aware of an interest on the part of the Eastern intelligence services to penetrate the NPD and monitor its activities.

5. At the instigation of Federal Minister of Interior Luecke, the BfV has undertaken to establish a confidential all-party committee consisting of members of the Social Democratic Party (SPD), Free Democratic Party (FDP), and the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) and the Trade Union Movement (DGB) to counter the NPD in Rheinland-Pfalz prior to the upcoming elections in spring 1967. All of the parties have agreed to participate and this activity is moving ahead. Recently at a two-day conference chaired by the BfV in a village on the Mosel River, it was decided not only to counteract NPD propaganda during the election campaign, but also to undertake orientation lectures for all officials in the Rheinland-Pfalz and other local governments who have shown NPD leanings. These courses will be launched as soon as the campaign gets underway. A similar propaganda and orientation activity is also being planned for the elections in Schleswig-Holstein.in 1967.

6. The BfV has persuaded the DGB to set up an action group aimed at organizing the Labor movement into countering the

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM
/Continued/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM

Page 3

CSDB-312/00003-67

influence of the NPD. The BfV is assisting the DGB in
working out methods for the infiltration of workers into
NPD organizations to report and counteract their influence
within factories and workers councils. The BIV has also
established contact with the German Industrial Institute
in Cologne, which is sponsored by the German equivalent of
the U.S. National Association of Manufacturers. The BfV
used as an argument with the industrialists the fact that
increasing influence of the NPD in German industry would
have a negative effect upon foreign trade.

7. The BFV undertook a survey of the election results at the
   village and county level in Land Hesse. This survey showed
   that the NPD had substantial success in areas containing
   German military installations. It was further determined
   that the NPD had considerable appeal among non-commissioned
   professional soldiers who feel they have failed to find
   acceptance in the postwar German society. This negative
   attitude has been less among Bundeswehr officers and draftees
   than among non-commissioned officers, who feel themselves under-
   paid and lacking in social acceptance. The BfV has contacted
   the security organizations of the Bundeswehr to under-
   take a program of orientation to counter the influence of
   the NPD within the Bundeswehr.

Headquarters Comment: CS-311/16288-66 from a different
source reported that the President of the West German
Association of Military Reservists had stated that a
large percentage of older reserve officers and non-
commissioned officers had voted for the NPD in the Land
Hesse election.


SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# Anlage 1

Stellenbesetzung des Bundesparteivorstandes der NPD

(Stand: 1.10.1966)

*   Parteivorsitzender:

THIELEN, Friedrich (Fritz) geb. 25.9.16 in Bremen,

wohnhart: Bremen-Schönebeck, Brauteichen 19

Beruf: Betonfabrikant

Frühere Organisationszugeherigkeit:

Grundungsmitglied der CDU,

Mitglied der Bremer Bürgerschaften,

1957 Mitglied und spater Landesvorsitzender der

"Deutschen Partei" (DP) in Bremen.

NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

1.  Stellvertreter:

GUTMANN, Wilhelm, geb. 9.6.1900 in Basel,

wohnhaft: Karlsruhe, Kaiserallee 30

Beruf: Angestellter

1.  Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Baden-Württemberg

der NPD

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit/

"Gesamtdeutsche Partei" (GDP/BHE),

ehem. Funktionär des "Bundesverbandes ehem. Internierter-

und Entnazifizierungsgeschädigter" (BIE).

NSDAP: 1.3.1932

1933 Bürgermeister in Tiengen

von THADDEN, Adolf, geb. 7.7.1921 in Trieglaff,

wohnhart: Benthe, Larchenweg 6

Beruf: Chefredakteur

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:

1949 fintglied der "Deutschen Rechts-Partei" (DRP),

Mitglied des Deutschen Bundestages in der Fraktion

"Nationale Rechte",

1950 Matgl. u. Funktionär der "Deutschen Reichspartei"(DRP)

1955-1959 Mitglied des niedersächsischen Landtages.

NSDAP: 1.9.1939

WINTER, Franz Florian, geb. 23.3.1923 in Amberg,

wohnhart: Tegernsee, Bahnhofstr. 11

Beruf: Metzgermeister u. Fachredakteur

1.  Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Bayern der NPD

Frühere Organisationszugehorigkeit:

CSU-Mitglied u. Mitglied der Landesleitung

GDP-Mitglied u. Mitglied des Vorstandes des Landesaus-

schusses und des Kreisverbandes

NSDAP: nicht Mitglied


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

### III. Prasidium:

BROWSER, Otto. Theodor, geb. 31.5.1906 in Paris,
wonnhaft: Bremen-Vegesack, Gerhard-Rohlfs-Str. 61,
Beruf: Kaurmann
Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Bremen der NPD.
Frühere Organicationszugehörigkeit:
"Deutsche Partel" (Dr),
Mitglied der Bremer Bürgerschaft
NSDAP: 1.8.1931

HESS, Otto, geb. 19.12.1908 in Rossdorf,
wonnhaft: Bissendorf, weidendamm,
Beruf: Oberregierungsrat a.D. (Jurist), Kaufmann,
Frühere Organationszugeherigkeit:
Mitglied u. sunktionar der "Deutschen Reichspartei" (DKP),
NSDAP: 1.8.1930
Kreisleiter, Gauinspekteur, Gauredner,
1938 Referent im Berichts- und Rechtsamt der
obersten SA-Führung, SA-Obersturmbannführer.

LANKER, Dr. Karl, geb. 22.9.1913 in Theesen,
wohnhaft: Bielefeld, Paderborner Weg 24 a
Beruf: Rechtsanwalt und Notar
Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Nordrhein-Westf.d.NPD
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: keine
NADAP: 1.5.1933

SCHUTZ, Waldemar, geb. 9.10.1913 in Dausenau,
wohnhaft: Gottingen, Felix-Klein-Str. 4
Beruf: Schriftleiter u. Verlagsinhaber
Frühere Organisationszugehrigkeit:
DAP-Mitglied und Funktionar
NSDAP: 1.11.1936,
1909 Eintritt in die HJ,
1934 Adjutant des Cau-Pressechefs,
1937 Kreiswart u. Gaureferent "Kraft durch
Freude" (KdF),
1938-1939 Junker der Ordensburg Vogelsang,
anschließend Beauftragter der NSDAP im Gau Hessen,
SS-Hauptsturmführer der Waffen-SS

SCHWEIMER, Horst-Günther, geb. 11.2.1913 in Essen,
wonnhaft: hamburg-Grow-Flottbek, Hochrad 7,
Beruf: Reedereibesitzer
Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Hamburg der NPD
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: keine
NSDAP: 1.4.1932
SS-Hauptsturmführer und Adjutant
Legationsrat im Auswärtigen Amt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

IV. Parteivorstand:

a) gewählte Mitglieder:

BRANDEIS, Anneliese, geb. 7.10.07 in Hargarten/Lotheringen
wohnhaft: Herzberg, Enzianstr. 7
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DRP-Mitglied und Funktionär
NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

LAUM, Peter, geb. 30.11.1940 in Löhnhorst,
wohnhaft: Hannover, Auf dem Larchenberge 15,
Beruf: Student
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: keine
NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

MAI-DORN, W.I., geb. 26.9.1908 in Kaufbeuren,
wohnhaft: Großaitingen, Bahnhofstr. 45
Beruf: Kaufmann
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DRP-Mitglied und Funktionär
NSDAP: 1.8.1930
1934 Gauwart "Kraft durch Freude" (KdF)
1936 Leiter der Gauschulungsburg Gau Schwaben
1937 Reichsschulungsleiter im Amt für Technik, München.

PRINZ zu SALM, Karl, geb. 8.11.1911 in Coesfeld,
wohnhaft: Breitscheid u. Düsseld., Kahlenbergweg 7
Beruf: Kaufmann/Oberst a.D.
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: keine
NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

ADAM, Willi, geb. 31.1.1907 in Berlin,
wohnhaft: Vrotno/Weser, Hochstr. 6,
Beruf: Dipl. Politologe
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
Mitglied der DSU, des LD, der GVP und der NE-Freunde.
NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

WINKELMANN, Fritz, geb. 21.5.1909 in Wittingen/Krs.Gifhorn
wohnhaft: Wittingen, Stackmannstr. 4
Beruf: Rechtsanwalt und Notar
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
Mitglied der "Deutschen Partei" (DP) und
Mitglied des niedersächsischen Landtages
NSDAP: nicht Mitglied


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

- 4 -

WINKELMANN, Gertraud, geb. 18.2.1917 in Prettin,
Wohnhaft: Lüneburg, in der Techt 1
Beruf: Hausfrau

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
Gründerin und Leiterin des "Deutschen Kinderschutz-
bundes" Oldenburg
FDP-Mitglied und Funktionär
NSDAP: 1.9.1938

b) Sonstige Angehörige des Parteivorstandes:

AHRENS, Adolf, geb. 21.2.1906 in Saarbrücken,
Wohnhaft: Saarbrücken, Enkircher Weg 23
Beruf: Versicherungsaufmann
Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Saarland der NPD

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: nicht bekannt
NSDAP: 1.6.1933

MAY, Fritz, geb. 26.10.1914 in Osthofen,
Wohnhaft: Osthofen, Mainzer Str. 20
Beruf: Winzer/Weinhandler

Vorsitzender des LV Rheinland-Pfalz der NPD

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DAP-Mitglied und Funktionär
NSDAP: 1.3.1933
SS-Sturmbannführer

FARBWERDER, Heinrich, geb. 24.5.1899 in Solingen,
Wohnhaft: Rothenburg/Fulda, Oberer Hausberg 4
Beruf: Kaufmann

Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Hessen der NPD

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
1918 Mitglied der "Deutsch-Nationalen-Volkspartei" (DNVP)
1946 FDP-Mitglied und Mitglied des hessischen Landtages,
1949 Mitglied des Bundestages,
1955 Übertritt zur "Deutschen Partei" (DP) u. Mitglied
der Fraktion der DP im Deutschen Bundestag.

NSDAP: 1.10.1931
Austritt erfolgte im November 1932

KÜHNE, Dr. jur. Lothar, geb. 2.1.1908 in Steinbach/Thür.,
wohnhaft: Hannover, Im Moore 12,
Beruf: Rechtsanwalt,
Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Niedersachsen der NPD

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
FDP-Mitglied u. stellv. Landesvorsitzender
NSDAP: 1.12.1931
1934 Reichssicherheitshauptamt,
1936 Referent in der "Parteiantlichen Prüfungskommis-
sion" im Stab des Stellvertreters des Führers,
1937 Büro des Botschafters von Ribbentrop,
SS-Untersturmführer

- 5 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

- 5 -

LOBER, Karl-Ernst, geb. 6.8.1927 in Naslau/Schl.,
wohnhart: Schleswig, holonnenweg 31,
Beruf: Backer und Jugendpfleger
Vorsitzender des Landesverbandes Schleswig-Holstein der NPD
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
SKP-Mitglied und Funktionär,
DRP-Mitglied und Funktionär auf Kreisebene.
NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

V. Ämter im Präsidium:

Organisationsabteilung: Adolf v. THADDEN (s.Stellvertreter)
Finanzabteilung: Otto Theodor BROUWEN (S.Präsidium)
Rechtsabteilung: Fritz WINKELMANN (s.Präsidium)
Propaganda- u. Schulungsabteilung: Otto HESS (s.Präsidium)
Pressenbteilung: Waldemar SCHUTZ (s. Präsidium)
Referat z.b.V.: Fritz WINKELMANN (s.Prasidium)

VI. Referenten im Parteivorstand:

Außenpolitik:

von THADDEN, Adolf (s. Stellvertreter)

Innenpolitik:

HERRMANNDORFER, Benno, geb. 20.3.1916 in Altötting,
wohnhatt: Munchen, Heckenstaller Str. 178,
Berur: Senatsrat
Mitglied des geschäftsführenden Vorstandes des Landes-
verbandes Bayern der NPD,
Vorsitzender des Bezirksverbandes Oberbayern der NPD.
Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: nicht bekannt
NSDAP: 1.1.1938
HJ-Mitglied seit 1933

Agrarpolitik:

RUDOLPH, Heinz, geb. 7.6.1922 in Elberberg,
wohnhart: Klein-Ilde 5,
Boaf: Burgermeister, Dipl. Landwirt, Hauptmann d.R.
Referent für Agrarfragen im LV Niedersachsen der NPD,
Redner aur Landesebene im LV Niedersachsen der NPD,
1. Vorsitzender am Kreisverband Hildesheim der NPD.
   Fruhere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
   CD-Mitglied
   NSDAP: 1.9.1940

- 6 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

- 6 -

Wirtschafts-, Finanz- und Steuerpolitik:

FABBENDER, Heinrich (s. Parteivorstand)

Verkehrapolitik:

SCHWEIMER, Horst-Günther (S. Präsidium)

Jugendfragen:

LOBER, Karl-Ernst (s. Parteivorstand)

Sozialpolitik:

KNUPFER, Kurt, geb. 7.6.1915 in Rippien,
wohnhaft: Neuenhaus, Jahnstr. 2,
Beruf: Elektromonteur.

Geschäftsfünrer und Kassenleiter im Kreisverband
Grafschaft Bentheim der NPD

Fruhere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DRP-Mitglied und Funktionär

NSDAP: 1.5.1930

Frauen- und Familienfragen:

WINKELVOSS, Gertraud (s. Parteivorstand)

Kulturpolitik:

DEINEN, Dr. Dietrich, geb. 19.4.1924 in Duisburg,
wohnhaft: Duisburg-Meiderich, Haferacker 13
Beruf:. Oberstudienrat

2. stellv. Vorsitzenaer im LV Nordrhein-Westf. d.NPD
   Landesreaner des LV Nordrhein-Westfalen der NPD

Primere Organ.sationszugehörigkeit: nicht bekannt

NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

Vertriebenenfragen:

GUTMANN, Wilhelm (s. Stellvertreter)

Arbeitskreis Bundeswehr:

NITSCHE, Dieter, geb. 4.7.1934 in Zittau,
wohnhaft: Oldenburg, (z.Z. Putlos)
Beruf: Hauptmann der Bundeswehr

NPD-Stadtrat im Stadtparlament Oldenburg

Fruhere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
AKON-Mitglied

NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

- 7 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

VII. Sonstige Funktionen iz Parteivorstand

Leiter der Abteilung Kasse:

SCHUTZ, Waldemar (s. Präsidium)

Leiter der Revisionsabteilung in der Finanzabta lung:

SCHIMMEROHR, Dr. Heins, geb. 22.1.1911 in Chemnitz,
wohnnart: Hannover, Raimundstr. 1
Beruf: Versicherungs-Kaufmann

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DKP-Mitglied und Funktionar
DAP-Mitglied und Funktionar

NSDAP: 1.6.1930

SS-Obersturmbannführer

Bundesgeschaftsfuhrer:

SCHWARZ, Martin, geb. 16.9.1912 in Oels/Schles.
wohnnart: Porz-Ensen, Charlottenstr. 14
Beruf: Hauptmann d.Bw. a.D.

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit: keine

NSDAP: 1.5.1932


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

Gesellschafter des Veriages
"Deutsene enrichten" (Dii) GmbH.

SCHUTZ, Walgems, geb. 9.10.1915 in Dausenau,
wonnnaft: Gottingen, Felix-Klein-Str. 4
Beruf: senriftleiter und Verlagsinhaber

Frünere Organisationcsugehörigkeit:
DRP - Mitglied und Funktionar

NSDAP: 1.11.1936,
1929 Eintritt in die ild,
194 Adjutant des Gau-Pressechefs,
19/7 Kreiswart und Gaureferent "Kraft durch
Freude" (KuF),
1938 - 19 Junker der Ordensburg Vogelsang,
anschließend beauftragter der NSDAP in Gau Hessen,
SS-Hauptsturmführer des Waffen-SS.

von THADDEN, Adolf, geb. 7.7.1921 in Trieglaff,
wohnhalt: Benthe, Larenenweg 6
Beruf: Chefredakteur

Fruhere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
1949 Mitglied der "Deutschen Rechts-Partei" (DRP),
Mitglied des Deutschen Bundestages in der Fraktion
"Nationale Rechte",
1950 Mitglied und Funktionär der "Deutschen Reichs-
partei" (DRP),
1955 - 1959 Mitglied des niedersachsischen Landtages.

NSDAP: 1.9.199

HESS, Otto, geb. 19.12.1908 in Rossaori,
womhaft: Bissendorf, weidendamm,
Beruf: Oberregierungsrat a.D. (Jurist), Kaufmann,.

Fruhere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
Mitgl. u. Funktionar der "Deutschen Reichspartei" (DRP)

NSDAP: 1.8.19:0
Kreislerter, Gauinspekteur, Gauredner,
1938 Referent im Berichts- und Rechtsamt der
obersten Sa-Fuhrung,
SA-Obersturmbannführer.

MATER - DORN, Emil, geb. 26.9.1908 in Kaufbeuren,
wonnnaft: Grobaitingen, Bahnhofstr. 45
Beruf: Kaufmann

Fruhere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DRP - Mitglied und Funktionär

NSDAP: 1.8.1920
1934 Gauwart "Kraft durch Freude" (KdF)
1936 Leiter der Gauschulungsburg Gau Schwaben
1937 Reichsschulungsleiter im Amt für Technik,
München

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

- 2 -

MELLWILLY, Dr. Go, geb. 24.5.1910 in Berlin,
wohnung: Wiesbaden-.enverg, Tennela.car. 23
Berur: Kaufmann

Fruhere Organitionszugehorigkeit:
DAF - mitglied una ranationar

NNAP: 1.0.1038
Referatsleiter der Haupttreunandstelle Ost, Berlin


KAHLAXKOHR, Dr. Heinz, geo. 22.1.1911 in Chemnitz,
wohnung: Hanover, Ministr. 1
Berat: Versienerungsscann

Franere Onnurient.onds.cehorigkeit:
DAF - mitglied und sunctionar
NNAP: Mitriica una Funktionär
NNAP: 1.6.100
SS-Obersturmbannfunrer

von HAUENKRO, Prof. Dr. Hans-Bernhard, gen. 20.2.1903
in Protzig/Pommern
wohnung: Wuppertal-Venwinkel, Am Osterholz 55
Berar: Universitats-Professor 3.Wv.
our ceit Lehrer an einer Privatschule

Frere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
DAF - Mitglied and ranationar

NNAP: 1.2.11
Gaulenter der ASAP (Gau Ostpreußen)
Goalstattentatsleiter,
Galustentenbonaru.rer.
Ortentlicher Professor der Staatswissenschaften
Rektor der Altertus-Universitat in Königsberg.

I.A. Alter, reb. v.10.1906 in Bresiau,
agitona, Arnoldstr. 24
berat: angestellter

Ere Organisationszugehorigkeit:
DAF - mitsilea und runcionar
NSDAP: 1.4.1922

LEICHT, Peter, geb. 22.10.1950 in Greifswald,
wohnung: stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt, Spreuergasse 45
meral: heentsanwalt

Frere Orgmisationszurenörigkeit:
DAF - Mitglied und Funktionar
NNAP: nicht Mitglied

-3-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

- 3 -

SERTZEN, Walter, geb. 25.11.1916 in Hamburg,
wonnnaft: Bremen, Kalenkampffallee 162
Beruf: Kaufmann

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
Sa Mitglied und Funktionär
- Mitglied und Funktionär
  DRP
  NSDAP: 1.4.1936

THIELEN, Friedrich (Fritz), geb. 25.9.1916 in Bremen,
wonnnaft: Bremen-schonebeck, Brauteichen 19
Beruf: Beton-Fabrikant

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
Gründungsmitglied der CDU,
Mitglied der Bremer Bürgerschaften,
1957 Mitglied und später Landesvorsitzender der
"Deutschen Partei" (DP) in Bremen

NSDAP: nicht Mitglied

BROUWER, Otto Theodor, geb. 31.5.1906 in Paris,
wonnhaft: Bremen-Vegesack, Gerhard-Rohlfs-Str. 61
Beruf: Kaufmann

Frühere Organisationszugehörigkeit:
"Deutsche Partei" (DP)
Mitglied der Bremer Bürgerschaften.
NSDAP: 1.8.1931


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

18 July 1963

# GERMANY AFTER THE WAR, A BACKGROUND READING LIST

## BOOKS

ABOSCH, HEINZ. The menace of the miracle: Germany from Hitler to Adenauer. London, Collet's, 1962. 277p. DD259.A683.1963 DLC; DD259.AIRS CIA.

ARNTZ, HELMUT. Germany in a nutshell. 2d ed., rev. and enl. Bonn, Press and Information Office of the Federal Goverment of Germany, 1960. 116p. DD43.A8 1960 DLC.

BENGTSON, JOHN ROBERT. Nazi war aims; the plans for the thousand year Reich. Rock Island, Ill., Augustana College Library, 1962. 155p. (Angustana Library publications, no.30) DD256.5.B37 DIC.

BITHELL, JEIHRO, ed. Germany, a companion to German studies. 5th ed., rev. and enl. London, Methuen, 1955. 578р. DD61.B56 1955 DLC; DD61.B6 1955 CIA.

BOSSENBROOK, WILLIAM JOHN. The German mind. Detroit, Wayne State University Press, 1961. 469p. DD76.B677 DLC.

BRANT, STEFAN, pseud. East German rising. London, Thames and Hudson, 1955. 202p. DD261.4.B713 DLC; DD261.4.B385 CIA.

BULLOCK, ALAN LOUIS CHARLES. Hitler; a study in tyranny. Rev. ed. New York, Harper, 1960. 776p. DD247.85B85 DLC; DD247.H5B85 1960 CIA.

CLAY, LUCIUS DU BIGNON. Decision in Germany. Garden City, N. Y., Doubleday, 1950. 522p. DD257.055 DLC; DD257.C6 CIA.

COLLIER, DAVID S., and KURT GLASER., eds. Berlin and the future of Eastern Europe. Chicago, Pegnery, 1963. 251p. (Foundation for Foreign Affairs series, no.7) DR48.5.C6 DIC; D843.C7 CIA.

1

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CONANT, JAMES BRYANT. Germany and freedom; a personal appraisal. Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1958. 117p. (The Godkin lectures at Harvard University, 1958) DD259.2.064 DLC; DD259.2062 CIA.

CROCE, BENEDETTO. Germany and Europe, a spiritual dissension. New York, Random House, 1955. 83p. DD76.074 DIC.

DAVIDSON, EUGENE. The death and life of Germany; an account of the American occupation. London, J. Cape, 1959. 422p. DD257.D33 DLC; DD257.D3385 CIA.

DEHIO, LUDWIG. Germany and world politics in the twentieth century. New York, Knopf, 1959. 141p. DD232.D413 DIC; DD232.D5 CIA.

DICKINSON, ROBERT ERIC. Germany; a general and regional geography. 2d ed. London, Methuen; New York, Dutton, 1961. 716p. DD43.D5 DLC; DD43.D5 1961 CIA.

DLC has 1953 ed. only.

DILL, MARSHALL. Germany; a modern history. Ann Arbor, University of Michigan Press, 1961. 4678. DD89.D5 DIC; DD89.D5 CIA..

DONNER, JOERN. Report from Berlin. Bloomington, Indiana University Press, 1961. 284p. DD881.D633 DLC; DD881.D62 CIA.

Translation from the Swedish.

DORNBERG, JOHN. Schizophrenic Germany. New York, Macmillan, 1961. 3029. DD259.2.6 DIC; DD259.2.D6 CIA.

DULLES, ALLEN WELSH. Germany's underground. New York, Macmillan, 1947. 207р. DD256.D8 DIC; Y1838.D8 CIA.

A simple, clear account of the opposition to Hitler during the war.

EPSTEIN, FRITZ THEODOR. Germany and the United States: basic patterns of conflict and understanding. Lawrence, Kansas, 1959. 284-314p. 183.8.G3E6 DIC.

"Reprinted from Issues and Conflicts, University of Kansas Press, 374р. 1959."

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

ERHARD, LUDWIG. Prosperity through competition. New York,
Praeger, 1958. 260p. HC286.5.E7313 DLC.

KYCK, ERICH. A history of the Weimar Republic. Cambridge,
Harvard University Press, 1962. DD237.K913 DLC.

FREUND, GERALD. Germany between two worlds. New York, Harcourt,
Brace, 1961. 296p. DD259.4.F78 CIA.

GERMANY (FEDERAL REPUBLIC) CONSTITUTION, 1961. The basic law of
the Federal Republic of Germany; amendments as of 31 December
1961. New York, German Information Center, 1961. 62p.
JN3971.A3A5 1961 CIA.

GOERLITZ, WALTER. History of the German general staff, 1657-1945.
New York, Praeger, 1953. 508p. DD101.G614 1953 DLC;
DD101.G61 1953ES CIA.

GOTTLIEB, MANUEL. The German peace settlement and the Berlin
crisis. New York, Paine-Whitman Publishers, 1960. 275p.
DD257.G68 DLC; DD257.G68 CIA.

GT. BRIT. FOREIGN OFFICE. Selected documents on Germany and
the question of Berlin, 1944-1961. London, HMSO, 1961. 483p.
(Its Germany, 1961, no.2. Gt. Brit. Parliament. Papers by
command, cmnd. 1552) DD257.4.075 1961 DLC.

GROSSER, ALFRED. The colossus again; Western Germany from defeat
to rearmament. New York, Praeger, 1955. 249p. DD257.G7413
DLC; DD257.G7E5 CIA.

HEIDENHEIMER, ARNOLD J. The governments of Germany. New York,
Crowell, 1961. 224p. JN3971.A58H4 DLC; JN3971.A58H4 CIA.

HELLER, DEANE, and DAVID HELLER. The Berlin Wall. New York,
Walker, 1962. 242p. DD881.H39 DLC; DD881.H42 CIA.

HERTZ, FRIEDRICH OTTO. Development of the German public mind;
a social history of German political sentiments, aspirations,
and ideas. London, Allen & Unwin, 1957. 524p.
DD112.H44 DLC.

HEYDECKER, JOE JULIUS, and JOHANNES LEEB. The Nuremberg trial;
a history of Nazi Germany. New York, World Pub. Co., 1962.
398p. KI836.1.G3H61t5 CIA.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

HISCOCKS, RICHARD. Democracy in Western Germany. London, New
York, Oxford University Press, 1957. 324p. DD259.4.H5 DIC;
DD259.4.H6 CIA.

HOETTL, WILHELM. The secret front; the story of Nazi political
espionage. New York, Praeger, 1954. 327p. DD256.5.H563
- DIC; Y1832.5.H69E5 CIA.

Translation from the German.

HOLBORN, HAJO. A history of modern Germany. New York, A. Knopf,
1959- DD175.H62 DIC.

v.l: The Reformation.

HOLBROOK, SABRA. Capital without a country: The challenge of
Berlin. New York, Coward-McCann, 1961.

HORNE, ALISTAIR. Return to power; a report on the new Germany.
New York, Praeger, 1956. 415p. DD259.4.H65 1956 DIC;
DD259.4.H8 1956 CIA.

HUEBNER, THEODORE. The schools of West Germany; a study of
German elementary and secondary schools. New York, New York
University Press, 1962. 181p. LA721.82.H8 DLC;
LA721.82.H8 CIA.

INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL FOR PHILOSOPHY AND HUMANISTIC STUDIES.
The Third Reich; a study published under the auspices of the
International Council for Philosophy and Humanistic Studies
and with the assistance of UNESCO. New York, Praeger, 1955.
910p. DD256.5.158 1955a DLC; DD256.5.I5 CIA.

JARMAN, THOMAS LECKIE. The rise and fall of Nazi Germany. New
York, New York University Press, 1956. 388p. DD256.5.J3 1956
DLC; DD256.5.J3 CIA.

JOHNSON, UWE. Speculations about Jakob. New York, Grove, 1962.

A novel reflecting life during the last decades in Germany.

KITZINGER, UWE W. German electoral politics, a study of the 1957
campaign. Oxford, Clarendon Press, 1960. 365p. JN3971.A95K5
DLC; JN3971.A956 1957.K7 CIA.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

KOCHAN, LIONEL. The struggle for Germany, 1914-1945. Edinburgh,
University Press; Chicago, Aldine Pub. Co., 1963. 150р.
DD240.K57 DIC; D443.K7 CIA.

KOHN, HANS. The mind of Germany; the education of a nation.
New York, Scribner, 1960. 370p. DD76.K59 DLC; DD76.K59 CIA.

KRIEGER, LEONARD. The German idea of freedom; history of a
political tradition. Boston, Beacon Press, 1957. 540p.
DD112.K82 DIC.

LAQUEUR, WALTER ZE'EV. Young Germany; a history of the German
youth movement. London, Routledge & Paul, 1962. 253p.
HN19.13 DIC; HQ799.0513 CIA.

LIDDELL HART, BASIL HENRY. The German generals talk. New York,
Morrow, 1948. 308р. 0757.15 1948a DLC; D757.15 CIA.

LOEWENSTEIN, Prince HUBERTUS, and VOLKMAR VON ZUEHLSDORFF. NATO
and the defense of the West. New York, Praeger, 1962. 383p.
UA646.3.18E5 CIA.

LOWIE, ROBERT HARRY. Toward understanding Germany. Chicago,
University of Chicago Press, 1954. 396p. HH445.168 DLC;
HN445.16 CIA.

MCINNIS, EDGAR, RICHARD HISCOCKS, and ROBERT SPENCER. The shaping
of postwar Germany. London, Dent, 1960. 195p. DD257.M35 19608
DLC; DD257.M35 1960 CIA.

MCCLELLAN, GRANT S., ed. The two Germanies. New York, Wilson,
1959. 184p. (The Reference shelf, v.31, no.1)
DD257.M27 DLC; DD257.M2 CIA.

MANDER, JOHN. Berlin, hostage for the West. Baltimore, Penguin
Books, 1962. 124p. (A Penguin special, 8209) DD881.M27
DLC; DD881.M2 CIA.

MANVELL, ROGER, and HEINRICH FRAKNKEL. Goering. New York, Simon
& Schuster, 1962. 442p. DD247.G67M3 DLC; DD247.067M2 CIA.

MEINECKE, FRIEDRICH. The German catastrophe; reflections and
recollections. Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1950. 121p.
DD256.5.M42 DLC; DD256.5.1485 CIA.

Translation from the German.

5

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

MERKATZ, HANS JOACHIM VON, and WOLFGANG METZNER, eds. Germany today: facts and figures. Frankfürt a.N., A. Netzmer, 1954. 413p. DD259.M372 DIC; DD259.M372 CIA.

METCALF, JOHN C. Our stake in Germany. Washington, Washington College Press, 1961. 96p. DD259.2.M42 DLC.

HEAL, FRED WARNER. War and peace and Germany. New York, W. W. Norton, 1962. 166p. DD257.25.N38 DLC; DD257.253 CIA.

MESSELRODE, FRANZ VON. Germany's other half; a journalist's appraisal of East Germany. London, New York, Abelard-Schuman, 1963. 207p. DD261.N45 DLC; DD261.2.4 CIA.

PASSANT, ERNEST JAMES. Short history of Germany 1815-1945. London, New York, Cambridge University Press, 1959. 255p. DD232.P35 DIC; DS; DD232.P2 CIA.

PINNEY, EDWARD L. Federalism, bureaucracy and party politics in Western Germany. Chapel Hill, University of North Carolina Press, 1963. 268p. JN3971.A77P5 DLC.

PINSON, KOPPEL SHUB. Modern Germany, its history and civilization. New York, Macmillan, 1954. 637. DD203.P5 1944 DIC; DD203.P5 1954 CIA.

A useful survey, particularly of the intellectual background.

PLISCHKE, EIMER. Contemporary government of Germany. Soston, Houghton Mifflin, 1961. 248p. JH3971.A5P55 DLC; JN3971.A5P7 CIA.

POLLOCK, JAMES KERR, and others. Germany in power and eclipse; the background of German development. New York, Van Nostrand, 1952. 661p. DD89.P64 DLC; DD89.P6 CIA.

POUNDS, NORMAN JOHN GREVILLE. Divided Germany and Perlin. Princeton, N. J., Van Nostrand, 1962. 128p. DD257.25.P6 DIC; DD257.25.P7 CIA.

PRITTIE, Hon. TERENCE CORNELIUS FARMER. Germany dividel. Boston, Little, Brown, 1960. 380p. DD257.P72 1961 DIC; DD257.P7 CIA.

DLC has English ed.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

FOR OFFICIAL USE OHLY

REINHARDT, KURT FRANK. Germany: 2000 years. Rev. ed. New York,
F. Ungar Pub. Co., 1961. 2v. DD89.R36 1961 DIC;
DD89.R36 1961 CIA.

ROBSON, CHARLES B., ed. Berlin--pivot of Genaan destiny. Chapel
Hill, University of Horth Carolina Press, 1960. 233p.
DD881.84553 DLC; DD881.862 CIA.

ROTHFELS, HANS. The German opposition to Hitler, an appraisal.
2d rev. ed. Chicago, Regnery, 1962. 166p. (Foundation for
foreign affairs series, no.6) DD256.3.R6 1962 DIC;
Y1838.R84 1962 CIA.

SHIRER, WILLIAM LAWRENCE. The rise and fall of the Third Reich;
a history of Nazi Germany. New York, Bimon and Schuster, 1960.
1245p. DD256.5.848 DIC; DD256.5.855 CIA.

This is issued also as a paperback ed.

SMITH, BRUCE LANNES R. The governance of Berlin. New York, Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, 1959. 171-230p. (International
conciliation, no.525) JX1907.A8 no.525 DLC..

SNYDER, LOUIS LEO. Basic history of modern Germany. Princeton,
N. J., Van Nostrand, 1957. 192p. DD175.858 DLC;
DD175.858 CIA.

SPRIER, HANS. German rearmament and atomic war; the views of
German military and political leaders. Evanston, Ill., Pow,
Peterson, 1957. 272p. UA710,856 DLC; UA710.57 CIA.

SPETER, HANS, and W. PHILLIPS DAVISON, eds. West German leadership
and foreign policy. Evanston, Ill., Row, Peterson, 1957. 323p.
DD259.4.86 DIC; DD259.487 CIA.

STAHL, WALTER, ed. The politics of postwar Germany. New York,
Praeger for Atlantic-Bruecke, 1963. 480p. DD259.4.38 DLC;
DD259.4.871 CIA.

STERN, FRITZ RICHARD. Cultural despair and the politics of
discontent; a study of the rise of the "Germanic" ideology.
Berkeley, University of California Press, 1961. 367p.
D076.872 1961 DLC.

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

STOLPER, WOLFGANG F. The structure of the East German economy. Cambridge, Harvard University Press, 1960. 478p
DIC; HC287.A2S7 CIA.

TAYLOR, ALAN JOHN PERCIVALE. The course of German history; a survey of the development of Germany since 1815. New York, Coward-McCann, 1946. 230p. DD203.13 1946 DLC.

TETENS, TETE HARENS. The new Germany and the old Nazis. New York, Random House, 1961. 286p. DD259.2.T4 DLC; DD255.2.3 CIA.

THAYER, CHARLES WHEELER. The unquiet Germans. New York, Harper, 1957. 275p. DD257.T45 DIC.

VERMEIL, EDMOND. Germany in the twentieth century; a political and cultural history of the Weimar Republic and the Third Reich. New York, Praeger, 1956. 288p. DD232.V413 1956 DLC;
DD232.V5E5 CIA.

VIERECK, PETER ROBERT EDWIN. Metapolitics, the roots of the Nazi mind. New York, Capricorn Books, 1961. 364p. (A Capricorn book, CAP45) DD253.V5 1961 DLC.

WHEELER-BENNETT, JOHN WHEELER. The nemesis of power. London, New York, Macmillan, 1953. 829p. DD240.W5 DLC; DD240.W56 CLA.

Revised ed. 1963

WOHLRABE, RAYMOND A., and WERNER KRUSCH. The land and people of Germany. Philadelphia, Lippincott, 1957. 118p. DD17.W6 DLC.

8

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)