# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CODE

4/11/68

TELETYPE

URGENT

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. G. C. Moore

1 - Mr. Griffith

1 - Mr. Atkinson

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

VIA TÉLETYPE
1232 PM
APR 11 1968

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

ENCIPHERED

REURTELS NUMBERS TWO AND FOUR DATED APRIL EIGHT LAST.

PERTINENT DATA IN RETELS WAS INCORPORATED INTO LHM AND FURNISHED WHITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL AND INTERESTED GOVERNMENT AGENCIES BY LETTER APRIL TEN INSTANT.

IN VIEW OF NATURE AND ENORMITY OF ALLEGATIONS MADE BY HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA CONCERNING THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST ENDEAVOR TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

PHOTOGRAPH OF ONE HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AS HERNAN HENRIQUEZ URENA LORA, BORN OCTOBER TWENTY FOUR, FIFTEEN, AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, OR SANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEING FORWARDED SEPARATELY.

REC-44-3826-1-498

BUREAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZEN AND HIS PARENTS WERE MAX AND GUARINA HENRIQUEZ.
10 APR 12 1968


1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for review)

1 - 105-168197 (H. Rap Brown)

1 - 100-446080 (S. Carmichael)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO
RE: ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

THIS INFORMATION WAS CLASSIFIED "SECRET" BY CIA..

CIA ON AUGUST NINE, SIXTY SIX, ADVISED IT HAD NOT HAD ANY
OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN
AND ITS FILES
INDICATED HE HAS "VERY UNSAVORY REPUTATION."

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION CONCERNING HENRIQUEZ LORA
WILL BE FORWARDED BY AIRTEL:

NOTE: Legat in retels reported Henriquez Lora had volunteered a third party had over heard a conversation in Santo Domingo between two Dominican communists in which it was alleged that Stokely Carmichael and H. Rap Brown advocated the death of Martin Luther King and King's assassination would benefit the cause of black violence.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TELETYPE

TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

CODE

URGENT

4/11/68

1 - Mr. Rosen
1 - Mr. G. C. Moore
1 - Mr. Griffith
1 - Mr. Atkinson

ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

REURTELS NUMBERS TWO AND FOUR DATED APRIL EIGHT LAST.

PERTINENT DATA IN RETELS WAS INCORPORATED INTO LHM AND
FURNISHED WHITE HOUSE, ATTORNEY GENERAL AND INTERESTED
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES BY LETTER APRIL TEN INSTANT.

IN VIEW OF NATURE AND ENORMITY OF ALLEGATIONS MADE BY
HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA CONCERNING THIS MATTER, LEGAT MUST ENDEAVOR
TO VERIFY OR DISPROVE SUCH ALLEGATIONS.

PHOTOGRAPH OF ONE HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA, ALSO KNOWN AS
HERNAN HENRIQUEZ URENA LORA, BORN OCTOBER TWENTY FOUR, FIFTEEN,
AT SAN DIEGO, CUBA, OR SANTIAGO DE CUBA, CUBA, BEING FORWARDED
SEPARATELY.

BUREAU FILES REVEAL ABOVE INDIVIDUAL IS DOMINICAN CITIZEN
AND HIS PARENTS WERE MAX AND GUARINA HENRIQUEZ.

10 APR 12 1968

CIA ON APRIL SEVENTEEN, SIXTY TWO, ADVISED ABOVE HENRIQUEZ
LORA WAS CITIZEN OF DOMINICAN REPUBLIC WHO HAD BEEN TRAVELING ON
CUBAN PASSPORT NUMBER ONE ONE TWO SEVEN DATED JANUARY TWENTY FIVE,
FIFTY NINE. IN ONE NINE SIX TWO HE RESIDED AT ANTONIO MAURA TEN.

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (route through for review)

1 - 105-168197 (H. Rap Brown)
1 - 100-446080 (S. Carmichael)
1 - 05481938(nan Henriquez Lora)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TELETYPE TO LEGAT SANTO DOMINGO
RE: ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

MADRID, SPAIN. ACCORDING TO CIA, HE HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN BOTH
PRO-CASTRO AND ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN MADRID DURING PRECEDING
TWO YEARS AND WAS SUSPECTED OF BEING A MAMBER OF CUBAN G-TWO.
THIS INFORMATION WAS CLASSIFIED "SECRET" BY CIA.

CIA ON AUGUST NINE, SIXTY SIX, ADVISED IT HAD NOT HAD ANY
OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN HERNAN HENRIQUEZ LORA AND ITS FILES
INDICATED HE HAS "VERY UNSAVORY REPUTATION."
ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION CONCERNING HENRIQUES LORA
WILL BE FORWARDED BY AIRTEL

NOTE:
Legat in retels reported Henriquez Lora had
volunteered a third party had over heard a conversation in
Santo Domingo between two Dominican communists in which
it was alleged that Stokely Carmichael and H. Rap Brown
advocated the death of Martin Luther King and King's
assassination would benefit the cause of black violence.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

DATE: April 17, 1968

FROM: S. J. Papich

UBJECT: MURKIN

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA),
furnished the following to the Liaison Agent on April 17, 1968:

A CIA source, characterized as being very reliable,
advised that on or about April 15, 1968, an individual identi-
fying himself as called
at the office of the and
asked to be as soon as possible. (It should
be noted that reference is being made to the office of the
He was asked to furnish his local
address in and he refused to do so. He became very
agitated and then left. So far he has not returned to the
aforementioned office. CIA's source stated that
answers, the general description of the suspect in the instant
case as reported in newspapers.

volunteered information indicating that
he applied for in California, on
June 16, 1964, and that he registered as a member of the
in on February 21, 1968.
He has and
He was born April 8,
1937 in Missouri (town not given). CIA's source described
him as 5'10"; 155 pounds; brown hair, receding hairline on
both sides; a scar, not prominent, about two and one half
inches long across the center of his forehead. His most
outstanding characteristic was his grin, described as "dis-
concerting and resembling a grimace."

advised that this same information has been
given to our Legat, CIA is checking through available
sources in Tokyo to establish the whereabouts of
If this lead washes out, CIA would like to be advised.

ACTION: The above information is being directed to the
attention of the Civil Rights Section of the
General Investigative Division.

SJP:clb (4)

1 - Mr. McGowan (Long)

1 Liaison

Mr. Papich


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

FROM: S. J. Papichy

SUBJECT: MURKIN

DATE: April 17, 1968

Richard Ober, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following to the Liaison Agent on April 17, 1968:

A CIA source, characterized as being very reliable, advised that on or about April 15, 1968, an individual identifying himself as Gerald Lee Richards, a U. S. seaman, called at the Tokyo, Japan, office of the National Maritime Union and asked to be signed on a ship as soon as possible. (It should be noted that reference is being made to the office of the U.S. National Maritime Union.) He was asked to furnish his local address in Tokyo, and he refused to do so. He became very agitated and then left. So far he has not returned to the aforementioned office. CIA's source stated that Richards answers, the general description of the suspect in the instant case as reported in newspapers.

Richards volunteered information indicating that he applied for seaman's papers in San Pedro, California, on June 16, 1964, and that he registered as a member of the National Maritime Union in San Pedro on February 21, 1968. He has Social Security number 562-46-5078 and U. S. Coast Guard identifying document 22711-782. He was born April 8, 1937, in Missouri (town not given). CIA's source described him as 5'10"; 155 pounds; brown hair, receding hairline on both sides; a scar, not prominent, about two and one half inches long across the center of his forehead. His most outstanding characteristic was his grin, described as "disconcerting and resembling a grimace."

Ober advised that this same information, has been given to our Legat, Tokyo. CIA is charging through lavandable sources in Tokyo to establish the whereabouts of Richards. If this lead washes out, CIA would like to be advised.

ACTION: The above information is being directed to the attention of the Civil Rights Section of the General Investigative Division.

SJP:clb (4)

1 - Mr. McGowan (Long)

1 Liaison

Mr. Papich


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# UNITED STATES G ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM: Mr. J. A. Sizoo

SUBJECT: MURKIN

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following information to Night Supervisor James F. McGuire by telephone:

Further, he does not know of any factual connection of these individuals with the King case. He said CIA sources were trying to develop this matter further. He also advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication concerning this matter on 4/23/68,

At 9:10 pm 4/22/68, orally advised that a check had been made with the determined that

JFM:chs (7)

1 - Mr. Sullivan 1 - Mr. J.A.Sizoo

1- Mr. Rosen 1 - Mr. Papich

1 - Mr. Helgeson 1 - Mr. J.F. McGuire

DATE: April 22, 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan
RE: MURKIN

(b)(3) the assassination of Martin Luther King. indicated that the entire information may be a complete hoax; however, CIA will advise FBI if any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION:
The above information was orally furnished to Mr. Helgeson, General Investigative Division.

![Signature]

- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# UNITED STATES ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: Ap111 22, 1968

FROM: Mr. J. A. Sizoo

SUBJECT: MURKIN

At 6:35 pm 4/22/68, John Mapother, Clandestine Service, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), furnished the following information to Night Supervisor James F. McGuire by telephone:

CIA sources in Panama have reported two American citizens are being detained in Panama City, Panama, at the request of the Costa Rican authorities. Allegedly, they are being detained in connection with the assassination of Martin Luther King. These individuals are identified as Tom Wolman, born 7/17/44 in New York. Wolman has Passport Number J085474, issued 1/29/68, and his permanent residence is shown as 30 Larrys Lane, Pleasantville, New York. The other individual is identified as Douglas Harry Hulbard, Passport Number 330926. Hulbard is described as a former soldier who has returned to Panama to be married. CIA did not have any further descriptive data regarding Hulbard.

These two individuals were traveling in a Chevrolet, License Number 23GH19, Motor Number 13 387 13 113711. The vehicle and license plates could not be further described by CIA. According to CIA, Wolman's passport indicates he had entered and departed El Salvador and Honduras on 4/17/68; Nicaragua on 4/18/68.

Mr. Mapother advised he has no indication why the Costa Rican authorities have requested the detention of the above-described individuals. Further, he does not know of any factual connection of these individuals with the King case. He said CIA sources were trying to develop this matter further. He also advised that CIA would send the FBI a written communication concerning this matter on 4/23/68,

At 9:10 pm 4/22/68, Norman Poulin, CIA, orally advised that a check had been made with the Costa Rican authorities and determined that Costa Rica has no information regarding the above-mentioned individuals; that Costa Rica did not request Panamanian authorities to hold these individuals, that they have no request from any American authorities to detain them; and that they have

JFM:chs (7)

1 - Mr. Sullivan 1 - Mr. J.A.Sizoo

1 - Mr. Rosen 1 - Mr. Papich

1 - Mr. Helgeson 1 - Mr. J.F.McGuire

REC-48 CONTINUED OVER

0 AHR 24 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Memorandum to Mr. Sullivan
RE: MURKIN

no knowledge of any connection between these individuals and the assassination of Martin Luther King. Poulin indicated that the entire information may be a complete hoax; however, CIA will advise FBI if any additional data comes to their attention.

ACTION:
The above information was orally furnished to Mr. Helgeson, General Investigative Division.

![Signature]


- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

: Mr. W. C. Sullivan DATE: 4/28/68

: J. A. Sizoo

T: MURKIN

Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised this date that

Germany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, that he believed he had seen an individual whom he thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the on the afternoon of 4/23/68. Because he thought the individual looked like Galt he made an effort to get some information concerning him. He found he was registered at the hotel as

The did not know if registered at the hotel as an American. In conversation with he learned that was employed by the (adress unknown) and was en route to.

Bufiles contain no references to or the.

CIA, was advised that Bufiles contain no references to or.

ACTION: None. For information. This is being referred to the General Investigative Division.

JHK:brr (8)

*   1 - Mr. Sullivan
*   1 - Mr. Rosen
*   1 - Mr. Sizoo
*   1 - Mr. G.C. Moore
*   1 - Mr. McGowan
*   1 - Mr. McDonough
*   1 - Mr. Kavanagh


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

Mr. W. C. Sullivan DATE: 4/28/68

J. A. Sizoo

T: MURKIN

Norman Pulin, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), advised this date that a german doctor, Klaus Steer, German Director, Scientific Department, Africa, E. Merck Aktiengesellschaft, Karmstady, Germany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, that he believed he had seen an individual whom he thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the Bristol Hotel, Lagos, Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4/23/68. Because he thought the individual looked like Galt he made an effort to get some information concerning him. He found he was registered at the hotel as Joe-Musgaque, Room 403, receipt number D52138, account number 08325. The doctor did not know if Musgaque had registered at the hotel as an American. In conversation with Musgaque the doctor learned that Musgaque was employed by the Wilder Oil Company (adress unknown) and was en route to Warri Oil Field, Nigeria:

Bufiles contain no references to Joe Musgaque or the Wilder 011 Company.

Mr. Pulin, CIA, was advised that Bufiles contain no references to Jos Musgaque or Wilder Oil Company.

ACTION:

None. For information. This is being referred to the General Investigative Division.

JHK:brr : (8)

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Rosen

1 - Mr. Sizoo

1 - Mr. G.C. Moore

1 - Mr. McGowan

1 - Mr. McDonough

1 - Mr. Kavanagh


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

13-00000

Airtel 4-29-68

To: SAC, Washington Field 1 - Mr. Hudson

From: Director, FBI

MURKIN

On 4-28-68, a representative of CIA advised the Bureau that

had advised the American Embassy, that he believed he had seen an individual whom he thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the on the afternoon of 4-23-68. The individual was identified as who is reportedly an employee of the (address unknown).

Washington Field, check passport records for any identifying data concerning and also attempt to determine through the Department of State any information concerning the which reportedly is operating in . If no information available in State Department records regarding the determine whether State Department can obtain this information from the Embassy.

Handle immediately.

1 - Memphis (info)

FJH:jlh

NOTE: See memorandum from J. A. Sizoo to W. C. Sullivan dated 4-28-68, captioned "Murkin" JHK:brr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

13-00000

Airtel

4-29-68

To: SAC, Washington Field 1 - Mr. Hudson

From: Director, FBI

MURKIN

On 4-28-68, a representative of CIA advised the Bureau that a German doctor, Klaus Steer, German Director, Scientific Department, Africa, E. Merck Aktiengesellschast, Karmstady, Germany, had advised the American Embassy, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, that he believed he had seen an individual whom he thought to be Eric Starvo Galt at the Bristol Hotel, Lagos Nigeria, on the afternoon of 4-23-68. The individual was identified as Joe Musgaque, who is reportedly an employee of the Wilder Oil Company (address unknown).

Washington Field, check passport records for any identifying data concerning Musgaque; and also attempt to determine through the Department of State any information concerning the Wilder Oil Company, which reportedly is operating in Nigeria. If no information available in State Department records regarding the Wilder Oil Company, determine whether State Department can obtain this information from the Nigerian Embassy.

Handle immediately.

1 - Memphis (info) EX-110 REC 5 1-2440

APR 30 1968

NOTE: See memorandum from J. A. Sizoo to W. C. Sullivan dated 4-28-68, captioned "Murkin" JHK:brr.

MAY 3 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

S. J. Papich

COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA
INTERNAL SECURITY - COLOMBIA

ACTION:

This information will be checked out by the Soviet Section for any significant indicators relating to the movement of funds through Soviet intelligence channels.

This information and enclosure are also being directed to the attention of the General Investigative Division in the event we desire to check any identified currency utilized by James Earl Ray against the attached listing.

Enclosure

SJP:clb
(7)

1 - Mr. Branigan
1 - Mr. Wannall
1 - Mr. McGowan
1 - Murkin File
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Papich

May 22, 1968

![scribbled notes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# 13-00000

Mr. D. J. Bronnen, Jr.

May 23, 1963

S. J. Papich

COMMUNIST PARTY OF COLOMBIA
INTERNAL SECURITY - COLOMBIA

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) previously has furnished information concerning the arrest of two individuals in Colombia who clandestinely brought into the country a large sum of U. S. currency slated to be delivered to the Communist Party of Colombia.

On May 21, 1968, Thomas Karamessines, Deputy Director of Plans, CIA, made available the enclosed list of serial numbers of the currency recovered by Colombian officials. It should be noted that the first digit in each listed number designates the particular denomination (1-$1; 2-$5; 3-$10; 4-$20; 5-$50; 6-$100).

ACTION:

This information will be checked out by the Soviet Section for any significant indicators relating to the movement of funds through Soviet intelligence channels.

This information and enclosure are also being directed to the attention of the General Investigative Division in the event we desire to check any identified currency utilized by James Earl Ray against the attached listing.

Enclosure

SJP:clb
(7)

1 - Mr. Branigan

1 - Mr. Hannall

1 - Mr. McGowan

1 - Dorkin File

1 - Mainon

1 - Mr. Papich

![Not recorded stamp]

54. DECT 31968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# 13-00000

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAT 1962 EDITION
OSA CON. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. E. S. Miller

DATE: November 29, 1973

FROM: W. A. Branigan

SUBJECT: COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On November 21, 1973, Mr. of the
Central Intelligence Agency personally delivered the attached
Press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsoring
a two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and
24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F.
Kennedy's death. Mr. particularly noted that former
Special Agent William Turner was scheduled to be the moderator
of a panel dealing with unique investigative techniques. In the
program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent, author of
numerous books on investigative techniques. Among others
appearing on the program are Fred Cook, Mark Lane, Harold Weisber
all of whom who have been outspoken critics of the FBI.

The Central Intelligence Agency, according to Mr.
was concerned over the appearance of their ex-employees
Victor Marchetti and GeorgeXO'Toole.

Mr. advised that his Agency would have coverage
of the conference and that he would be happy to pass along any
data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:

For information. Anything of pertinence received
from Mr. will be made a matter of record. A copy of this
memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of
ex-Agent Turner.

WAB:hke
(5)

62-112697
Enclosure

1 - Personnel File of William Turmer
1 - Mr. E. W. Walsh
1 - Mr. E. S. Miller
1 - Mr. W. A. Branigan

REC-89
62-112697-3FM
FX-112

XEROX
1973
DEC 3 1973

ENCLOSURE

XEROX
DEC 10 1973

![photo of a signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. E. S. Miller

FROM: W. A. Branigan

DATE: November 29, 1973

SUBJECT: COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS
MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING

On November 21, 1973, Mr. Raymond Rocca of the Central Intelligence Agency personally delivered the attached press release noting that the captioned committee was sponsoring a two-day conference at Georgetown University on November 23 and 24 in commemoration of the Tenth Anniversary of President John F. Kennedy's death. Mr. Rocca particularly noted that former Special Agent William Turner was scheduled to be the moderator of a panel dealing with unique investigative techniques. In the program Turner is identified as a former FBI Agent, author of numerous books on investigative techniques. Among others appearing on the program are Fred Cook, Mark/Lane, Harold (Weisberg, all of whom who have been outspoken critics of the FBI.

The Central Intelligence Agency, according to Mr. Rocca, was concerned over the appearance of their ex-employees - Victor Marchetti and George O'Toole.

Mr. Rocca advised that his Agency would have coverage of the conference and that he would be happy to pass along any data developed by their coverage.

ACTION:

For information. Anything of pertinence received from Mr. Rocca will be made a matter of record. A copy of this memorandum has been designated for the personnel file of ex-Agent Turner.

WAB:hke
(5)

62-112697
Enclosure

1 - Personnel File of William Turner
1 - Mr. E. W. Walsh
1 - Mr. E. S. Miller
1 - Mr. W. A. Branigan


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

13-00000

IERNAND FENSTERWALD, JR.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE
ASSASSINATIONS
1520 16TH STREET, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20006
(202) 232-1132

ROBERT SMITH
DIRECTOR OF RESEARCH
JAMES LEBAR
COUNSEL

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:

In observance of the tenth anniversary of President Kennedy's death, the Committee to Investigate Assassinations is sponsoring a two-day Conference at Georgetown University on November 23rd and 24th. A brochure describing the Conference and its program is attached. As you will note, several of the Nation's prominent writers and investigators of the assassinations of the past decade will speak.

While a number of different points of view on the subject will be represented, there is general consensus that the Executive Branch has failed to make known all the relevant facts of the assassinations..
We believe that the Congress must ultimately take the initiative if the public is to learn all of the facts, and that Watergate has shown us that Congress' action depends largely on disclosures by an informed press and other news media.

A press pass will be available for you at the Conference registration desk. For further information, please contact:

Ms. Andrea Wyatt
Conference Coordinator
(202) 232-1152

memo W.A. Bhargan
& Mr. E. S. Weiler,
11/29/73
WA ENCLOSUR

21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DECADE OF ASSASSINATIONS

COME SHARE THE FINDINGS
OF THE NATION'S EXPERTS

AT A TWO DAY CONFERENCE

SPONSORED BY THE COMMITTEE TO
INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS

TO BE HELD AT:

GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY

GASTON HALL

Nov. 23-24, 1973

COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ASSASSINATIONS
1520 16th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. • (202) 232-1152

1963 - 1973

THE LAST THREE PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTIONS HAVE BEEN DECIDED BY
BULLETS:

1964 - result decided by the assassination of
President John F. Kennedy

1968 - result decided by the assassination of
Senator Robert F. Kennedy

1972 - result decided by the near-assassination of
Governor George Wallace

WHAT is the evidence?

WHO fire the fatal shots?

WHY has there been such a concerted effort
to withhold the facts?

WHO was really behind the assassinations?

JOHN F. KENNEDY • SYLVANUS OLYMPIO •
ABDUL KARIM KASSEM • MEDGAR EVERS •
"NGO" DINH DIEM • JIGME DORJI • ACIB AL •
SHISHAKLI • PIERRE NGENDANDUWE
HASSAN ALI MANSOUR • MALCOLM X • VIOL-
LIUZZO • MARIO MONDEZ MONTENEGRO • SIT
ABUBAKAR BALEWA • J.T.V. IRONSI AGUIYI •
HENDRIK VERWOERD • TRAN VAN VAN •
GEORGE LINCOLN ROCKWELL • CHE GUEVARA •
MARTIN LUTHER KING • ROSEP F.
KENNEDY • EDUARDO MONDLANE • TOM
MBOYA • A.A. SHERMARKE • GEORGE
WALLACE • SALVADORE ALLENDE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# 1963-1973

PROGRAM

FRIDAY - NOVEMBER 23

9:00 LATE REGISTRATION -
Early Registrants pick up passos.

9:50 WELCOME:
Mr. Bernard Fensterwald, Jr., Executive Director, Committee to Investigate Assassinations

Mr. Normasi Mailer, Author and Forwarder of The Fifth Estare

10:00 CURRENT STATUS OF PROMINENT ASSASSINATION CASES:

JFK CASF Mr. Robert P. Smith, Director of Research, Committee to Investigate Asassinations

RFK CASE Air. Robert Hanson, Attorney, present counsel for Sirhan Sirhan

KING CASE Mr. James Lesar, Attorney, present counsel for James Eari Ray

WALLACE CASE - Mr. Ronald Van Doren, Newsuman, Author, researcher into the background of Arthur Bremer

ROCKWELL CASE Ms. Meredith Rode, Professor at Federal City College, Authority in killing of George Lincoln Rockwell

11:30 UNIQUE INVESTIGATIVE TECHNIQUES:
Mr. William Turner, Moderator Former FBI Agent, Author of numerous books on investigative techniques

Mr. George O'Toole Former CIA Agent, Free-Lince Writer, expert on the PSE (Psychological Stress Evakuator)

Mr. Robert Saltzinen Computer Engineer, lecturer on the Warren Commission Report

FRIDAY - Continued

12:30 BREAK FOR LUNCH

2:00 MEDICAL AND PHYSICAL EVIDENCE:
Mr. Josiah Thompson, Moderator - Professor at Haverford Coliege, author of Six Seconds in Dallas

Dr. Cyril Wecht Professor of Law and Forensic Medicine at Duquesne University; Coroner of Pittsbürgh, Pa.

Ms. Sylvia Meagher - Attorney, UN Official, author of Accessories After The Fact

Mr. Roger Hanson Attorney, counsel to Sirhan Sirhan

Mr. Herbert MacDonnel! Professor of Criminalistics, Corning University; expert in case of Fred Hampton

Mr. Mark Lane Attorney, author of Rush To Judgment and Executive Action

6:00 BREAK FOR DINNER

8:30 WARREN COMMISSION REPORT: FACT OR FICTION -
A slide show and lecture by Mr. Robert Saltzman

SATURDAY - NOVEMBER 24

9:30 AS5/SSINATIONS AND THE MEDIA:
Mr. John Henry Fauli, Moderator - Humorist and Author of Fear On Trial

Mr. Robert Kaiser Author of RFK Must Dic

Mr. Donald Freed Co-Author of Executive Action

Mr. Hured Weisberg - Author of Frame Up

Mr. Ted Charach Author of Second Gun

Mr. Peier Noyes Author of Legacy Of Doubt

Mr. Fred Cook Author of numerous books and articles

12:30 BREAK FOR LUNCH

2:00 THEORIES OF CONSPIRACY:
Mr. Richard Sprague, Moderator - Computer expert and author

Dr. Richard Popkin, Professor at Washington University; author of The Second Oid

Col. Fletcher Prouty Fermer Liakהנ Officer between PentagonWand CIA author of The Secret Teams

Mr. Revert K. Brown -- Former Specid Services Officer; expert in attempts on life of Castro

Mr. Earl Golz- Reporter for Dallas Morning News, expert on Organized Crimes

Mr. Victor Marchetti - Former CIA Agent; author

Mr. Peter Dale Scott Professor a: Berkcicy; Author of The Wer Conspiracy

5:00. INDIVIDUAL WORKSHOPS WITH 2:10 SPEAKERS-
Question nad Answer Sessions

6:00 FINI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

7 BJ document
forwarded to CIA
for review

![C]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)