2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PERSONAL DATA:

*   NAME: Emilio A. Rodriguez
*   AGE: (32) years.
*   DATE OF BIRTH: (January 27, 1928)
*   PRESENT ADDRESS: Edificio FOCSA, Apt. 23-L, Calles 17 & M., Vedado, Habana, Cuba.
*   NATIONALITY: American. PLACE OF BIRTH: Havana, Cuba.
*   SOCIAL SECURITY NO.: (438-42-7817) SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.: (16-45-28-53)
*   MARITAL STATUS: Married (11-1/2 years) CHILDREN: (3 boys, 1 girl)
*   EDUCATION: Colegio De La Salle, Havana, Cuba
    Alcee Fortier High School, New Orleans, La.
    Tulane University, New Orleans, La.
*   DEGREES: Bachelor of Science, Master of Arts.
*   UNDERGRADUATE WORK: Scientific-Medicine Program, majoring in Psychology and minoring in Biology and Chemistry.
*   GRADUATE WORK: The Humanities, majoring in Linguistics and Literature. (Lacking 1 more year to complete work on my Ph. D.)
*   HONORARY MENTIONS: (Phi Kappa Chapter) of (Phi Sigma Iota National Honor Society); All graduate work done under scholarships and fellowships provided by (Tulane) University and the (State of Louisiana)
*   CAMPUS ACTIVITIES: Phi Kappa Sigma, Phi Iota Alpha; Pan-American Club, International Club, Flying Club, American Association of Teachers of Spanish and Portuguese.
*   PLACEMENT TESTS: Graduate Record Examination
    Advanced Test Score: 670 (Upper 5% of National Average).
    U. S. Civil Service Commission -- 1952
    Military Intelligence Research Specialist: Grade GS-7
    Intelligence Research Specialist: Grade GS-7
    Foreign Affairs Officer: Grade G3-7
*   LANGUAGES: Conversation: English, Spanish, Portuguese (poor).
    Reading: English, Spanish, Portuguese.
    Writing: English, Spanish, Portuguese (poor).
    Working knowledge of: French, Italian.
*   CHARACTER REFERENCES:
    Mr. David L. White, 512 Walnut St., New Orleans, La.
    Mr. Perry M. Arthur, 9820 Thanksgiving Drive, Ferrine, Fla.
    Mr. Lee T. Wolf, 420 Park Ave., Swarthmore, Fa.
    Mr. Clarence Zehnder, Edificio FOCSA, Apt. 28-3, Calle 17 & M., Habana, Cuba.
    Miss Dorothy Maness, 2722 Palmer Ave., New Orleans, La.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

December 1959

# WORKING EXPERIENCE:

U.S.A. - 1948-1954:

(Gas Refrigerating Co., New Orleans, La) -- Sales (Counselor)

Cardiovascular Research Laboratory, Tulane School of Medicine
New Orleans, La. -- Research Technician.

Middle America Research Institute, Tulane University, New Orleans
La. -- Assistant Librarian.

Touro Infirmary, New Orleans, La. -- Medical Technician

Berlitz School of Languages, New Orleans, La. Professor.

Tulane University, Spanish Department, New Orleans, La
(Teaching Fellow.)

(Most of the above positions were held principally for
the purpose of providing additional income while doing
Graduate Work at Tulane University))

HAVANA, CUBA - 1954-1969. Branch Sales Office for the following:

Appleton Electric Co., Chicago, 111 -- Asst. District Manager.

Arrow-Hart & Hegeman Electric Co., Hartford, Conn.) -- Idem.

Century Electric Co., St. Louis, Mo.-- Idem.

Hubbard and Company, Chicago, Ill) -- Idem.

Hubbard Aluminum Products Co., Pittsburgh, Penn -- Idem.

The Okonite Company, Passaic, N.J -- Idem.

This is a combined (Havana District Sales Office,) handling the
individual business of each of the above companies in this
territory, and representing their interests in Cuba.

# PRESENT POSITION AND DUTIES:

Since April 1954 I have been working as Assistant District
Manager of the Havana District Sales Office for the above
described companies. In this capacity I have been directly
responsible for all business operations of these companies
throughout the territory of Cuba. It has been my duty to
promote the sale in Cuba of all items manufactured by said
companies; organizing representation in the main cities; appoint
distributors; assist in collection of accounts when necessary;
direct the servicing of their products in case of operating
difficulties; supervise the handling of all of their export-
import shipments; study the market conditions and trends,
analyze competitive situations and advise the factories accord-
ingly; cooperate with and advise local distributors in their
sales promotion programs and assist with important accounts and
contracts; to counsel Management in sales policy and procedures
in this territory; and to protect in every way possible the
interests in Cuba of the above mentioned American manufacturers.

# RESUME:

Due to the economic and political situation prevailing in Cuba,
and present restrictions on imported goods, I am considering the
advisability of making a change whereby I can improve my present
standing and future potentialities in accordance with my educa-
tional qualifications and proven experiences. I am only inter-
ested in working direct for an American Company, either at home
or abroad, with a starting base salary of about $12,000 a year.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)