104-10172-10001 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

16-7

No. of Pages: 3 Report No.: [illegible] Local File No:

Report Made By: Howard W. Antell Approved By:

Distribution: Winch (2)
By copy to: [Kana] (1)
10 (1)
Files (1)
Orally to:

Kaše available to the Embassy and G-2

Source Cryptonym: Sources Identified References:

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

23

[TAM-A-15 indicated that the Headquarters of the Caribbean Legion wore being transferred to Panama" whore it could count on the aid of the ARIAS government", and that Julio Torrz Hasegoza, motive in the Caribbean Legion, would remain in Mexico dedicating himself to the purchase of gold and its clandestine exportation to Guatemala and Panama.

[TAM-K-639 requested confirmation of the above information.

It is possible that the attached report may tend to confirm part of this information.

Classification

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Subject: Gold Shipments

Place Acquired: Panama City, Panama

Evaluation: B-C

Source:

1. G-2 reported that on 7 May 1950 a B-26 type boctor arrived in David, Panama, from Browneville, Texas, due to a low gasoline supply. The plane was headed for Tocumen Airport in Panama City, and carried as a crew the following according to G-2:

Frank OMGFL, U.S. Citizen, Pilot

O. MARTINEZ, U.S. Citizen, Co-Pilot

Steve MURRAY, U.S. Citizen, Mechanic

Mauricio CASTRO, Panamanian, Passenger

A tire blew out at David, and Mr. John LEROY, Civil Aeronautics technician at Tocumen Airport was instrumental in getting a spare tire to them.

2. Mr. LEROY advised this office that he had met Steve MURRAY in Havana in April 1950 in company with a fellow named ZORRILLO, who claimed to have some connection with the Secret Police, in-Mexico. LEROY described MURRAY as an adventurer who had been in the Philipines and the Far East and whom he suspected of gold smuggling activities. LEROY said that MURRAY was pilot of the plane and he thought it was unusual that so fast a plane as this and as expensive to operate was being used when it had comparatively little cargo space. In May 1950, when MURRAY was in Panama, he told LEROY that he was buying orchid bulbs.

3. On 16 June 1950 the following information was received (from Civil Intelligence Section, Panama Canal) regarding this matter:

> It has been reported that Very frequently a B-26 airplane (N5546N - a Martin Marauder) makes trips between Tocumen and David, R.P. It is piloted by Steve MURRAY, and at least two other Americans ride on the plane, which is who ma sometimes met at Tocumen Airport by either Tito, Harmodito or Toni ARIAS. On landing at the airport it goes directly to a hangar, and allegedly the only ones who visit it are the ARIAS brothers, PASTOR Ponce, Chief of the Airport, and one (fnu) LINARES, Chief of Customs at Tocumen.

Informant stated that it was believed at first that the plane was engaged in arms contraband, but later it appeared more logical to assume that it was involved in another type of smuggling, possibly drugs.

Virgilio RAMIREZ, then Chief of the Control Tower, is said to have stated that the plane comes and goes without being registered at the airport under orders of Police, Airport Manager; that the plane lands without signalling


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

ty radio or talking to anyone for four of dater:!a at Alirook Finld, but
list it is sigled by ms of a list wit atomatics that the ti01 10/
fire for lantis doilea ore Jiany
told
steve that farcato air agmucent with the raind statea regardire landing
rules an tiority beliv: violated, and that these two son wore afterwards
reacted from their joba.

"Informant acto that the above plane Lnded at Tocumen from Pavid on 11 kay.
at 5:15 p.s., on 12 bay at 6:51 p.r., on 14 Nay at 6:19 part. and on 16 Kay
at 9:55 802.

The above forcation was allegedly given to PresLient ARIAS by the Kinister
of coverment and Justico, and he apparently shored little interest in the
suttect, acrely stating that the ratter should be tavestigated to seo nhất
there is to it."

Upon receipt of this information it appeared that Tirgilio RATREZ might have
been the source, since he was fired from his post at Tocumen Airport and was
disled about it. It was ascertained that the information contained in
the (are) pararan), in which RAMIPEC is mentioned, ras reported by RA THEZ but
the vicer information care from other Civil Intelligence sources.

4. 6 July. advised that the above-plare-and Steve LURRAY had re-
   turned to Farma and that the Minister of Goverment had ordered that the plane
   by dissentled and searched, but he could not ascertain the basis for the search.
   had talked to the Kanager of the airport, Estel PASTOR Porce, and with
   Toal AS, Director Gonoral of Civil Aeronautics, ani a rophew of President
   Ariss, to indicated that they were aware of the Kinister of Government's order
   but did not know what was behind it. Both felt that it was an extreme measure,
   which should not be carried out.

5. Ca 8 July 1950 Kr. MURRAY called at the Entassy to obtain assistance in
   securing the release of his plane. Briefly he stated that he had departed
   from Kexico City via Nanaqua and arrived at Tocumen at 7:30 p.m. 5 July. His
   passport reflected the followings

Name: Steven T. Hurray
Fassport No.: 1024
Issueda Kanila, Lacenter 2, 1946.
Renewed: Kanila, Doconter 27, 1948
Expires: Decoater 1, 1950

He furnished the following additional informations

Type of Planes Converted B-26
U.S. Registrys N 5546 N
Pilot and Owners Steven T. Murray
Coliots Frank Oorgel, U.S. citizon
Flidt Engireers Cristobal Wartinez, Noxicon citizen
Pasengers Kauricio Di: CASTRO, Paramantan citizen (bearer of official
passport), passenger from Lexico City to Tocumen
Destinations Brownsville, Texas
Purpose of Trips Business


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

He stated that he was in the export-import business and that he dealt in gold. He said that he had come to Panama to see a man by the name of SAS, a gold dealer from Buenos Aires, about gold shipments.

6. On 8 July, Minister of Government Alfredo Aleman reported the matter to the U.S. Ambassador, stating that prior to arriving in Panama the plane had been signaled, that all was not well at the airport and that the crew had jettisoned cargo prior to arrival. (A check with the Air Force authorities does not confirm that any such message was sent and Murray denies that anything was jettisoned. He insisted that he was coming to Panama to discuss the gold business but that he had no cargo.) The Minister also advised the Ambassador that PASTOR Ponce had been fired as Head of the airport.

7. In a conversation with PASTOR Ponce and Murray on the night of 8 July [illegible] was advised that PASTOR Ponce had, in fact, been fired and that he was determined to bump off Toni ARIAS. Both Murray and PASTOR Ponce claimed that Toni ARIAS was behind it all but that PASTOR Ponce was the fall guy.

8. The Mexican/referred to, Cristobal Mateo, and the Mexican, Zorrilla, are believed to be identical. SAS has been identified as Fernandez, a gold dealer, who operates in Buenos Aires and Montevideo. Civil Intelligence Section-has-advised that SAS was staying with Toni ARIAS and that he-had departed from Panama hastily. CIS-also-advised that President ARIAS at first-had given orders for the/dismissal of both his nephew, Toni Arias, and PASTOR Ponce, but it was later agreed that Toni ARIAS would not be fired to avoid a public scandal involving the President's family.

9. The present status of the matter is that the plane has been searched with negative results, that the plane is still being held by the Panamanian authorities and that Murray and others are endeavoring by every means possible to secure the release of the plane. The head of the Tocumen Airport, PASTOR Ponce, has been dismissed and Toni ARIAS, the President's nephew, will probably be allowed to withdraw from his position gracefully.

Distributions

Wash (2)
Noxl (1)
Y (1)
Kana (1)
Files (1)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)