2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HLI-IRCOLA 44.3.2
Vol. II
201-128561

INCLUSIVE DATES: Oct 51- Dec 55

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVISED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| 3/7/78        | 3/7/78        | Betsy Wolf              | Betsy Wolf                      |
| 15 MAY        |               | JOHANNA SUHH            | Johanna  Sindel                 |
| 23 MAY        | 23 MAY        | "                       | "                               |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

![photo of VOL. II]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FBI +
misc other Docs
3rd Agency

ORIN Maurice Hyman 201-128561


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

DEE-17437

22 September 1955

Chief CI/SRS

S. H. Johnson

James A. PERRY
#90178

James A. PERRY, Jr., mailed two letters from Washington, D. C., on 29 June 1955, one to his fater, and another to Severino D. 00:EZ; however, in so doing, PEFFI placed the letter to his father in the envelope addressed. to C0EZ, and the letter to GUEZ in the envelope addressed to his father. When the letters were received by PEFRY, Sr. and COMZ, both noting the error, they exchanged letters. Hovever, COEZ considered the contents of the letter he had at first received important enough to turn over to his brother M. Leal GOMEZ, who in tum referred it to the Boston Office of the FBI.

The letter, in substance, indicated that while PERRY was serving in South America, under cover for this Arency, bo had revealed his true status to his wife's father, EN CONSALTES, on a visit to South America, and who later had revealed this information to PERRY's father. In correspondence following FEST's father having become knowledgeable of PEFFI's true status, he indicates that therein he might have intimated that his work was not so hush-hush, and that on that basis P's father "had dropped his card" in effect, and had told others of PERRY's true status. This letter was a warning to PEFFY's father that he should attempt to correct the indiscretion of revealing PERFI's status while he was in South America. The letter refers to other letters which PERFI indicates contained information revealed torough indiscretion on his part, and which he asks his father to destroy.

According to our records, PEFFY was granted an Operational Clearance on 22 May 1953, for use as a witting informant or as a contract agent on anti-Communist student activities atas used as a contract agent from September 15) to Febrity 1955 in Frasil under Dis cover.

Fe is of Portuusa Fort extriction, striction, and he or his father had changed the family name to A to PERRY, his s name was C. SALVES. prior attendance at lorth-western University.

He attended Northeastern University from 1947 to 1951 and received an AB Degrees Poston University from 1951 to 1952 where he received an PA Degree in Latin America Regional Studies, and at Vanderbilt University from 1952 to 1953 oral a Ph.D. מים

than professor-student relating serdi cost Lifemants as no more

SECRET file in

201-1138567


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

the letter intended for PERRY's father, advised the FBI that he, GOMEZ,
had attended Boston University during the period PERRY was studying
under HALPERIN. GOMEZ was of the opinion that the HALPERIN-PERRY
relationship was more than just the professor-student type because PERRY
saw HALPERIN during the evenings, but never told GOMEZ what he discussed
with HALPERIN.

GOMEZ also advised that about June 1953, just before PERRY's depart-
ure for Rio de Janeiro, PERRY called HALPERIN on the telephone and at
that time HALPERIN was under investigation. PERRY told GOMEZ that
HALPERIN was in a predicament, and that he, PERRY, felt sorry for him.
Earlier PERRY had told GOMEZ that HALPERIN had a lot of influence in
Washington, and was going to get a job for PERRY.

According to the FBI, the HALPERIN mentioned above, appears to be
identical with Maurice Ryan HALPERIN, former employee of OSS, who was
identified in November 1945 by Elizabeth BENTLEY as having furnished
information for transmittal to the Soviets.

PERRY recently contacted this Agency requesting permission to state
that he had worked for the Agency in his application for employment with
USIA. WH Division, to whom this request was forwarded, was advised that
PERRY was not to disclose his past employment with this Agency.
Division, in turn, informed Security of their desires that USIA be
informed of PERRY's past connections with this Agency.

Security, on the basis of the above request by WH Division, contacted
the appropriate person in USIA and advised them on a controlled basis of
PERRY's former affiliation with this Agency.

S. H. Johnson

SRS/SHJ:pal


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                              | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| American Communists in Mexico and Their Contacts | RI FILE NO. 50   DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4 120  DATE 30 31 Oct 55  SOURCE CRYPTONYM HM-1300  DATE OF INFO.  EVALUATION B-Doo |
| ANALYST D. Heron                                 | DATE PROCESSED 13 Sert 57  DISSEMINATED IN DATE  DOCUMENT DISPOSITION TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.                                        |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Source: LIFEAT/LITHOSPHERS
Date of Info: 12 Sept - 21 Oct 55

VERBATIM:

The following information concerning American Communists in Mexico and their contacts has been developed.

1.  On 12 September a meeting was held of stockholders in the ice cream business which functions under the management of the American Communist, Robert STRAND. This business is believed actually to be owned by the leading American Communist, Frederick Vanderbilt FIELD. The meeting was held at the home of STRAND, and was attended by the American Communists Maurice HALPERIN and Noah SEBORER and possibly by other stockholders

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

LX: 356
DATE: 19 JULY 1955
TO: MEXICO CITY.
FROM: DIRECTOR. *Foreign Communists - Mefico*
CONI: CI
INFO: COP, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, RI 2, WH 4, S/C 2

DIR 14833 (OUT 57103)
1800Z 19 JUL 55
ROUTINE
TO: MEXI Sul, Suminatilily connected with:
CITO: DIR
HOLD FOR IDEN D DIR 14150 (OUT 56504)

JAMES LEIGH WHITE BORN 1914 VERMONT NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT
AND AUTHOR SINCE 1939, IN MEXICO CITY JUNE-AUGUST 1941, WIFE
MARIA CRUZ CARROCERA WHITE BORN 1921 SPAIN; SYLVIA AGELOFF
MISTRESS OF JACQUES MORNARD AND REPORTEDLY IN MEXICO CITY
AT TIME TROTSKY MURDER, SISTERS HILDA AND RUBY: CONSTANTA
DE LA NORA ALLEGEDLY KILLED IN GUATEMALA; FERNANDO DE LOS
RIOS BORN SPA N 1897, SPANISH REPUBLICAN AMBASSADOR TO U.S.
1937-39, REPORTED RECENT YEARS REPRESENTATIVE SPANISH JUNTA
OF LIBERATION. MEXICO CITY: ALVAREZ DEL VAYO BORN SPAIN
1921 WAS ACTIVE SPANISH REFUGEE ACTIVITIES IN NEW YORK, SON
UAN IN LONDON WWII; JULIAN CORKIN PROMINENT TROTSKYITE IN
U.S. AND SPAIN IN '40S. WRITER CLOSE TO TROTSKY PRIOR TO
MURDER; NANCY JOHNSTONE REPORTED KEY CP OFFICIAL IN MEXICO

COORDINATING OFFICER:
19 Jul 55
S.U.C.R.E.T.
201-128561
IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

DIR 14670 (OUT 57188) 19 JUL 55 PAGE 2

1948 AND OPERATED HOTEL MEXICO CITY WITH HUSBAND ARCHIE.

OH'S TONE WHO WAS FORMERLY WITH LONDON NEW CHRONICLE AND

SAID TO BE IN RUSSIA AT PRESENT, MAXIM LEIDER ALIAS LEIDERMAN

HOPN 1897 WARSAW REPORTED LIVING CUERNAVACA, MEX.CON

1951 WITH ALBERT NALTZ FORMERLY OF HOLLYWOOD, ACCUSED

BY CHAMBERS OF SETTING UP SOVIET COVER COMPANY IN 1934,

HAS HAD CONNECT ONS WITH ANNA SEGUIRES AND BOUOUISE, FRANK

JELLINEK AND HANS HOFFMAN WHO WAS REPORTEDLY TREATING

LEIDER 1953 FOR PSYCHIATRIC DISTURBANCE, WIFE MINNA REPORTED

TEACHING AMER CHN SCHOOL MEXICO CITY 1953, REPORTED IN CONTACT

WITH MAURICE ALPER N. WAS RECIPIENT $100 FROM FOL SE BANK

WARSAW 1953: VITTORIO VIDALI ALIAS CARLOS CONTRERAS HEAD OF

CP TRIESTE. INTERMITTENTLY IN U.S. AND MEXICO DURING 1940'S.

SUSPECTED DIRECTED MURDER TROTSKY: FONTELLE MARIA HILLS

(VILIACID OR FLLIACD) ALLEGEDLY ONE OF CORRESPONDING

SECRETARIES OF JUAN NEGRIN 1937-20. REPORTEDLY IN LONDON 1945

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CIR 15370 (OUT 57183) 19 JUL 55 PAGE 3

AND SUBSEQUENTLY IN MEXICO, RELATIVES INCLOS)ATAIM:

(1) VILIACID, (2) QUIN VILIACID MARRIED TO FORMER SPANISH

REPUBLICAN DIPLOMAT JOSE JAREACO; (3) PERSUACID WHO

WAS REPORTED IN MEXICO CITY 1943; FRANK ELL NEK

CORESPONDENT OVERSEAS NEWS AGENCY 1943 IN MEXICO.

(END OF MESSAGE)

![signature] COORDINATING OFFICER:

SECRET

CHIEF, CI

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CLASSTED MESSAGE

SECRET

CONF : TE 6

ROUCAS

DIR 26783 (OUT 95321) - 23112 22 NOV 54

IT: FAST 6756 (IN 23695)

1. CONDUCTED TO GIFER REPORTS INTO CANC CA PUGATE PANAREA. ONT PANDOR CAS CATADA. VOLUNTARIES INTO

FACTOR SCHOLARSUP SITTING OFFY KEY WEIGHT. S

5. OBTAINING AN UNIDENTIFIED PHOTO

SECRET

IS FOR OFF A COPY OF THIS

24 NOV 54
201-128524

ITTH AUTRIALD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

Noah SEBORER and Family

ANALYST

D Heron

DATE PROCESSED

9 Sept 57

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

201

66549

DATE

6 June 1955

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
H-1117

SOURCE CRYPTONYM

EVALUATION

LITHOSPHERE

B-Doc

DISSEMINATED IN

DATE

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT. INFORMATION

Report from Mexico City, Mexico
Date of Info: 12 Feb - 12 May 55

VERBATIM:

II. Contacts

Set out below is a listing of contacts known to have been made by Noah and Anne SEBORER during the period covered in this report:

Maurice HALPERIN was dismissed from Boston University because of refusal to answer questions before a Congressional Committee. With him in Mexico are his son, David, his wife Edith and, at least during part of April, his or his wife's father. Noah SEBORER suplied Yiddish newspapers for the father to read. The HALFERINS dined at the SEBORERS 14 May 1955. HALPERIN is believed to be engaged in the trucking transportation business in connection with the firm E.A. Ojeda at Isabel la Catolica 38-610.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)