# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# PATCH

Chief, Far East Division

Chief, WODONE 13-7

Chief of Station, Vientiane

RYBAT FJDUST - [ ]AIL/1 - Damage Report

*   Vientiane 03-17
*   Vicrtiane 1355
*   Vientiane 1563
*   Vientiane 0932

1.  Station has been advised by

that did marry CYFRAIL/1 (201-845063)

and they are currently residing in Pottstown, Pennsylvania.

also advised that hopes to get employment with R.C.A. and be assigned to a classified project in the Caribbean area.

2. It is difficult to ascertain how much, if any,

sensitive information may have conveyed to [ ]AIL/1. However, it has been determined that during the ten and one-half months saw [CYFRAIL/1, he introduced her to the following WOFIRM personnel:

1. 
    Drone Tenley
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
    Richard Riet
10. Frank Nagy

11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
    John R. M...
16. Frunk J..Ki.

The following were identified to her

as having worked upcountry in Laos with him:

17. 
    Anthony A
18. 
    Fichael Stief
19. 
20. 
    H.STEPHENS

Attachment:

1 - IDEN, USC/THP

Distribution:

2 - C/FE, W IDEN USC/THP

1 - C/WOBONE, W IDEN USC/THP

-continued-

RETURN TO CIA

Background Use Only

Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECR.

DISPATCH
22

4. It should be noted that [] FRRLL/1 was curveilled by a Station curveillance tean on ral occasions and var reported to have visited IDEN A. organization's [Vienti office is currently under investi by this Station. 13-7 (See Vientiane 413, 748 and [FOVT]

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO[FOVT]7774

IDENTITIES

IDEN A - [Investment Overseas Service]

son W. Alburdas

7190


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)