2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: (TICHBORN)
LOPER, HENRY W,

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

![edge of document]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

17 September 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Contract Amendment
Edward G. TICHBORN

Transmitted herewith is original and one copy of amendment to subject's contract which was terminated 31 August 1968, signed by subject acknowledging a one-time lump sum taxable payment in the amount of $3,311, which serves as a "quit claim".

![signature of Virginia C. Lynch]
Virginia C. Lynch
Chief, DO Personnel & Training

Attachments: 2

cc: Mr. George Powell w/o att's

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Govern-ment, effective 19 May 1961, as amended.

Effective: 1 August 1968 you are authorized a one-time lump sum taxable payment in the amount of $3, 511.

In full and final consideration for authorization and payment of the above sum, you herein release and forever discharge the United States Government and any Agency, Department or Instrumentality thereof and its agents, officers, employees and representatives from any and all claims, demands and liabilities in any form or by any party whatsoever throughout the world arising from services performed by you for the United States Government under said contract.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Edward G. Tichborn

WITNESS:

APPROVED:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

12 August 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

THROUGH: Assistant for Non-Staff Personnel..

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN (P) - Contract Agent

1. Subject has been given 30 days notice as provided in his contract, to the effect that his contract will be terminated 31 August 1968.

2. Subject was initially employed in 1959 and was transferred to DO Division in July of 1967 from the WH Division. In the course of discussing the termination of his services, subject stated that during his tenure with the WH Division, he had been promised certain bonuses upon termination of his Agency service. The WH Division has agreed to a termination payment of $3,310.72 which represents two months' salary of a per annum salary of $17,000 plus $477.39 in settlement of his accounting which is nontaxable.

3. In addition it is requested that the following statement be included in the amendment:

You release and forever discharge the United States Government and any Agency, Department or Instrumentality thereof and its agents, officers, employees and representatives from any and all claims, demands and liabilities in any form or by any party whatsoever throughout the World arising from services performed by you for the United States Government under said contract.

4. Attached is signed Notice of Termination in duplicate.

![Signature of W. T. Montgomery]
W. T. MONTGOMERY
Chief. DO Support Group

APPROVED:

Attachment:
as stated


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# NOTIFICATION OF TERMINATION OF CONTRACT

Mr. Henry P. Lopcz

Dear Mr. Lopez:

You are hereby notified that your services under a contract with the U. S. Government, effective 19 May 1961, are to be terminated for the convenience of the U. S. Government pursuant to paragraph 10 of said contract, and that the thirty (30) days notice required by the contract begins 2 August 1968.

You are reminded of the contents of paragraph 9 of said contract which reads as follows:

"9. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the espionage laws, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations."

Your signature in the space provided below is acknowledgement of the contents hereof.


ACKNOWLEDGED:

![Henry P. Lopez's signature]

![Witness's signature]

U. S. GOVERNMENT

BY /s/ Dew H. Luetscher
Special Contracting Officer

![Date of acknowledgement]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

24 November 1967

Edward G.. Tichborn

1 October 1967

19 May 1961

one (1) year

24 No.67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

16 November 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Persxxel Division

SUBJECT : Edward C. TICZEN (P)

It is requested that si's contract which expired 30 September 1967 be extended for one year.

![signature of Viegile C. Lynch]

Virgile C. Lynch.
Chief, Fersonnel & Training

APPROVED:

![signature of W. T. MONTGOMERY]

W. T. MONTGOMERY,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: OF/C&TD/CAAS

VIA: Contract Personnel Division

FROM: WH/Contracts

DATE: July 5, 1967

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN, Reassignment

1. Effective 1 July 1967, Edward G. TICHBORN, Independent Contractor, has been reassigned to DO. Effective the same date all costs incident to contract services are chargeable to DO.

2. Miss Virginia Lynch, C/DO/Pers may be contacted for further information.

WM. S. Benehan

cc: C/WH/BAF
C/DO/Pers.

APPROVED:

/s/ Dow H. Luetscher

Special Contracting Officer

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

DATE:

CTC No.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Finance

ATTENTION: Chief, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Tax Assessment for

1.  A flat rate covert tax assessment of this individual's gross, taxable Agency entitlements has been approved by the Covert Tax Committee as indicated below. An acknowledged letter of tax instruction is will be forwarded.

| Tax Assessment Rate |
| :-----------------: |
|         ()          |

Effective Date

2. Other payroll factors pertinent to this Covert Tax Committee tax assessment action are as follows:

![signature] Approval Chief, CPD

Secretary, Covert Tax Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

C/CFD:

18 Oct 66

Attached is a draft of an amendment on TICHSON.
Note cemo of reatest asks for an increase in basic fee fr$12,000 רי to $17,000 based on TICHPOPN's "overall performance and full time services". This

Additional memoranda in file reflect the following:

(1) 19 May 1961 contract (still in effect) provided a basic fes of $8000 with no mention of amount of time gubject worked to earn such.

(2) Mi mamo of 18 June 63 asked a pay increase from $3000 to $5000 based upon, "manner of TICHPOPN'S performance and the increase amt. of time which he devotes to Agency requirements".

(3) H dispatch of 9 Nov 64 said that, "Hos agrees that present expiring contract called for about 2/3rds subject's time---TICHROHN pointed out.... he now engaged 90% of his time for Agency".

(4) WH memo of 24 Nov 6h requested an increase from $9000 to $12,000 based upon TICHBORN's increased value plus "using TICHSOMI's service on sbstantially a full time basis".

(5) As cited above, current WH memo of 7 Oct 66 asks for an increase of & from $12,000 to $17,000 based on subject's "overall performance and full time services".

I pointed out the above chromowith respect to the ever increasing usage of subject's time to Renehah who apparently feels the last memo is OK unless CPD desires to make a formal objection and return it.

Paul

Paul-ok to prеpся

I will hold pending.

waist of supplementu

Note - Per C/CRD WH(Corchom)

will submit a new memo to justify the current request.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SCORET

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 19 May 1961, as amended.

Effective 1 October 1966, said contract, as amended, is further amended by:

(a) Doleting the figure $12,000 from paragraph one (1) (a) and substituting in lieu thereof the figure $17,000;

(b) Deleting paragraph one (1) (b) in its entirety; and

(c) Adding the following paragraph:

"13. Offset. Emoluments (including benefits in kind) received from or through your cover activities are the property of the U. S. Government. Procedurally, such emoluments will be offset against armovats due you under this agreement and are acknowledged to be payment by the Government hereunder and for Foderal income tax purposes. If cover emoluments exceed those duo you under this contract, you will dispose of the excess amount in conformance with Governmental instructions:"

In addition, said contract is further amended by extending its term through 30 September 1967.

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended, remaia in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer


ACCEPTED:

Edward G. Tichbern

WITNESS:


APPROVED:


Pitch
20 001.66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

31 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : WH/Pers/Contracts

SUBJECT : Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Compensation

1.  Reference is made to your recent oral request con-
    cerning the increase in compensation for Edward G. TICHBORN,
    Independent Contractor.

2.  The recommendation for the increase was based on
    C/WHD's review of TICHBORN's performance, availability of full
    time services and direct negotiation. It is to be noted that
    the basic recommendation also provided for the amendment to
    offset, cover earnings.

![Signature of William S. Renehan]

William S. Renehan

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

7 OCT 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Amendment

1. It is requested that the contract, as amended, for Edward G. TICHBORN, Independent Contractor, be further amended effective 1 October 1966 as follows:
   a. Increase basic compensation to $17,000. per annum.
   b. Delete para. 1.b. The provision is not applicable due to reassignment to a domestic location.
   c. Provide offset provision of basic contract compensation as TICHBORN will be paid through a DODS proprietary (WUSALINE).
   d. CPD may determine whether it is necessary to modify the amendment) relating to Social Security and Income Taxes as deductions will be handled by the cover organization.
   e. Extend contract through 30 September 1967.
   f. Provide for TICHBORN's acceptance and signature on the amendment.

2. The increase in basic compensation is based on TICHBORN's overall performance and full time services.

![signature of William V. Broe]
for William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Contract Service - Edwind G. Tichborn (P)

| Date      | Action                                                   | Compuration  |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 15 oct 54 | Hired as an Independent Contractor                       | $50 Perday   |
| 13 Jan 60 | Pay adjustment                                           | See Contract |
| 23 Feb 61 | "                                                        | "            |
| 18 May 61 | Contract Terminated                                      |              |
| 19 May 61 | Hired as an Independent Contractor                       | $8,000 P.A.  |
| 19 May 63 | Pay increase                                             | 9,000        |
| 1 Dec 64  | "                                                        | 12,000       |
| 1 Dec 64  | As an Independent Contractor, authorized Social Security |              |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

Mr. Edward O._Tichborn.

Dear Mr. Tichborn

Reference is made to your current contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Effective 27 May 1966 said contract is amended by deleting all reference to income taxes therefrom, and by adding thereto the following paragraph:

"12. Taxes As an independent contractor, monies paid you under paragraph one (1) above constitute taxable Income for Federal tax purposes and you must satisfy your Federal tax liability thereon. Such income may be paid you by or through a cover facility. Because of cover, operational, and security considerations the Tax Committee of this organization is authorized to make certain determinations and establish procedures (including tax withholdings) which will result in the full satisfaction of your Federal income and Social Security tax obligations. It is specifically understood and agreed that such determinations and procedures, whether oral or written, constitute an integral part of this contract and are legally incorporated herein by reference."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

SECRET

Group 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

DATE:

CTC No.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Finance .

ATTENTION: Chief, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Tax Assessment for Edward 0. TICHBORN

1. A flat rate covert tax assessment of this individual's' gross, taxable Agency entitlements has been approved by the Covert Tax Committee as indicated below. An acknowledged letter of tax instruction is will be forwarded.

| Tax Assessment Rate                        | Effective Date  |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------- |
| Ten and eigthen..19 per cent (10.0)        | 1 December 1963 |
| Eleven and nineteen-tenths per cent (11.9) | 1 January 1964  |

2. Other payroll factors pertinent to this Covert Tax Committee tax assessment action are as follows:

Approval Chief, CPD

Secretary, Covert Tax Committee

FORM 2643
SECRET
(1-4-21)
3 - CPD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

S E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled in)

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

Office of Finance

Contract Personnel Division

Contract Extension for
Edward G. TICHBORN

1. Effective *19 November 1965*, the contract (as amended) is for the subject individual, effective *19 May 1961* extended for a period of *one (1) year*.

2. All other terms and conditions of the contract (as amended) remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

DMK/BK/21 ApRiN '66
Reg in DAZRIOTIS files. S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filed in)

Group 1: Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

Mr.

Dear Mr. :

Reference is made to your current contract with the United States
Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Arrangements have been recently completed allowing certain
Independent contractors of this organization to obtain social security
credits by covering such individuals under the social security tax
provisions applicable to employees. These arrangements also include
a provision for retroactive applicability to the beginning of the
1965 tax year. This can be done only for reasons of security since
the procedure results in reducing the social security tax from the
self-employed rate to the employee rate. For example, in January
of 1965 the tax rates were 5.4% and 3-5/8% respectively.

As a consequence thereof, said contract is amended by deleting
all reference to social security and by adding the following paragraph:

"Effective I December 1964, social security taxes will be covertly
deducted by this organization from your compensation in the same
manner and to the same extent as would be done if you were a Govern-
ment employee. Security reasons make this procedure necessary. Its
implementation does not imply in any manner the actual creation of an
employee-employer relationship, Your legal status under this agree-
ment continues to be that of an independent contractor."

If you receive or expect to receive full or partial social security
credits from overt sources you will so notify this organization and an
adjustment will be made or covert deductiona discontinued, depending
upon the circumstances. Further, if you should subsequently receive
overt social security credito, evidence thereof will be submitted to thiế
organization. In such event your covert credits will be erased and your
covert deductions returned.

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force
and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT-

BY

Contracting Officer

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

Pw/id/9.65

wh/vie


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as roprosented by the Contracting Officer, affective 19 May 1961, as amonded.

Effective 15 November 1964 said contract is amended by onlarging the scope of paragraph one (1) entitled "Compensation" to authorise a one time payment of additional taxable compensation in the amount of $1500.

Effective 1 December 1981 the figure $9,000 is deleted from paragraph one (1) (a) and in lieu thereof the figure $12,000 is substituted.

Effective 19 November 1964 said contract, as amended, is extended for a period of one (1) year.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

24 November 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Amendment

1. It is requested that the contract, as amended for Edward G. TICHBORN, be further amended as follows:

a. Effective 15 November 1964 a one-time payment of additional compensation in the amount of $1,500 for full time services rendered during a TOY assignment from June through August 1954. Payment will be made by the Station.

b. Increase in baste compensation from 50,000 to $12,000 per annum effective 1 December 1964.

c. Extend period of contract for an additional one year.

2. The Mexico Station recommendation as concurred with by Wd is based on increased operational activities which required having available and using TICHEOR'S services on substantially a full time basis. T0206: has agreed to fulfill the assignments including TDY assignments in other countries from tim to time. In view of the Lovel of the work involved and of TICHBOR's dwonstrated ability, the basic recommendations are considered fully warranted.

APPROVED:

![signature of Joseph L. Regean, Special Contracti]

![signature of Desmond Fitzgerald, Chief, Hosen Hemispher Division]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# MESSAGE FORM

ORIG. C. R.llallwell
UNIT 11/1
EXT 4523
DATE 9 NOVEMBER 1964

*   INDEX 27 SECRET
*   NO INDEX 50-6-116/2
*   FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-253203

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM DIRECTOR
CONF WH8 INFO RI/AN, CA/04 C72,00Z, OF3, VR, N

TO MEXI
LICOLIC CITE DIR 63360
REF: IMMA 24353

1.  EDNARD G. TICHBORN DISCUSSED TERMS HIS KUBARK CONTRACT DURING VISIT HOS EARLY NOVEMBER. HOS AGREES PRESENT EXRIRE EXPIRING CONTRACT CALLED FOR ABOUT TWO THIRDS SURJ'S TIME. TICHBORN POINTED OUT PER REFERENCE HE NOW ENGAGED NINETY PERCENT TIME FOR KUBARK.

2.  SUBJECT STATION CONCURRENCE HOB RECOMMENDS NEW ONE-YEAR KAXXXXXET CONTRACT PROVIDE RAISE FROM $9000 TO $13000 PLUS $3000 QUARTERS PER ANNUM. ALSO LUMP SUM PAYMENT 1500 DOLLARS FOR COMPENSATION HIS RECENT FULL TIME SERVICE FUASPEN. ADVISE IF YOU CONCUR EXTEND HIS CONTRACT ONE YEAR EFFECTIVE 19 NOVEMBER.

3.  HQS TOLD TICHBORN WE CONSIDERED HIS SERVICES VALUABLE AS WELL AS HIS EVER-NILLINGNESS DEPART ON SHORT & NOTICE ASSIGNMENTS OTHER DIVISION AREAS. OBVIOUSLY THIS PROPOSED RAISE WITH WHICH SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST HAPPY SINCE STILL IMPOSES NO RESTRICTIONS ON HIS SOMETIME OUTSIDE LEGAL WORK, WILL BE WITH UNDERSTANDING HE CONTINUE DEVOTE NEAR FULL-TIME MANAGEMENT AND HANDLING ORMINE AND ORMANTLE PLUS or Hes MANEES STATION ASSIGNMENTS.

CONTINUED

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

ORIG
UNIT
EXT
DATE:

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
12 84764

ROUTING
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8

TO
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF
INFO PAGE TWO

CITE DIR
63360

4. DISPATCH FOLLOWS ON QRMINE.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of desmond fitzgerald]
DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/NHD

![signature]
WH/POB
WH/PERS
WH/BFF

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

![signature of n. j. xaufman]
N. J. XAUFMAN
ER/1

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division

FROM : Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Contract Extension for

Enosrd C. TICHBORN

1. Effective 18 May 1954, the contract (as amended) for the subject individual, effective 18 May 1961 is extended for a period of six (6) months.

2. All other terms and conditions of the contract (as amended) remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY
Contracting Officer

S/st 22 May 64

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

13 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Edward G. TICHEORN

Please extend for a period of six (6) months the present contract of Edward G. TICHBORN which was due to expire on 18 May 1964.

W. E. Brooks
C/WH/Support


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 19 May 1961, as amended.

Effective 30 September 1963, said contract, as amended, is further amended by adding the following paragraph aftor paragraph ten (10) of said contract:

"11. Health Insurance. You are herein authorized to apply for enrollment in a health insurance program for certain selected contract individuais of this organization, subject to all the terms and conditions of that program. If accepted, this organization will bear that portion of your total premium cost which it is authorized to bear for the original group of contract participants in said program, you will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodic inter- vals to be established by this organization."

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# 14-00000

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 19 May 1961, as amended.

Effective 19 May 1963 said contract is extended for a period of one (1) year. Effective 1 June 1963 said contract, as amended, is further amended by the deletion in its entirety of paragraph one (1) entitled "Compensation" and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:

"1. Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such Information and services you will be compensated as follows:

(a) Basic compensation in an amount calculated at the rate of $9000 per annum.

(b) Additional compensation for quarters procurement in an amount calculated at the rate of $3000 per annum, effective upon your arrival and applicable only to your initial permanent post of assignment over- seas. Quarters will not be furnished you nor will you accept quarters provided by your cover facility without prior amendment of this agree- ment."

Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. Monies paid you by the Government under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as well as the procedures used by this organization to implement its tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. You herein authorize this organization to withhold taxes on said income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.

All other terms and conditions of the contract as amended remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

19 June 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN; (2), Amendment of Contract

1. It is requested that the contract, as amended for Edward G. TICHBORN, Contract Agent, be further amended effective 1 June 1953 as follows:

a. Increase basic compensation from $2,000 to $3,000 per annum.

b. Provide additional compensation for quarters procurement at the rate of $3,000 per annum for self and dependents.

c. Extend the period of the contract for an additional year.

d. All other provisions of the contract remain in effect.

2. The increase in compensation is recommended by the Security Office for use on the account of TICHBORN, on the basis of the increased amounts of time and money required of him.

3. The official can compare with the results of other similar contracts. This action would not indicate any reflection concerning an individual's loyalty or discreet conduct as such.

W.W. BROOKS
Chief, Support

SECRET

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: 8

INFO : OP 2 S/C 2

SECRET 2123252

IN43611

DIR CITE MEXI 4670

22 MAY 1963 IN 43671

REF HMMW-11562

1. STATION AGREES HQS EVALUATION TICHBORN AND CONCURS SALARY INCREASE
   AND HOUSING ALLOWANCE AMENDMENT. ALSO AGREE INSURANCE RIGHTS SHOULD
   BE INCLUDED CONTRACT.

2. BELIEVE RAISE SHOULD BE $1,300 PER ANNUM WITH HOUSING AT
   $3,000, WHICH TOTAL MEETS TICHBORN'S OWN REQUEST. THESE FIGURES
   PROPOSED TO TICHBORN (WITHOUT COMMITMENT) 21 MAY AND ACCEPTABLE
   TO HIM.

SECRET


SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 19 May 1961.

To rectify an administrative oversight said contract is amended as of its effective date by revising paragraph two (2) entitled 'Travel and Operational Expenses" to read as follows:

"2. Travel and Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds on an actual, reasonable and necessary expense basis for those expenses incurred by you in connection with such travel as may be directed or authorized by the Government and while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. In addition, you will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses as specifically approved by the Government. Payment and accounting for all expenses incurred hereunder will be in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.'

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

DHL-ld 25 Mar 63
wiat Do

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

20 March 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN (p), Contract Amendment

1. It is requested that the contract for Edward G. TICHBORN,
   Contract Agent, be amended to delete the current paragraph 2.
   Travel and Operational Expenses and insert:

"2. Travel and Operational Expenses. You will be
advanced or reimbursed funds on an actual, reasonable
and necessary expense basis for those expenses incurred
by you in connection with such travel may be directed
or authorized by the Government and while on temporary
duty away from your permanent post of assignment. In
addition, you will be advanced or reimbursed funds for
necessary operational expenses as specifically approved
by the Government. Payment and accounting for all
expenses incurred hereunder will be in substantial con
formance with applicable Government regulations.

The effective date of the amendment should be as of the effective
date of the contract, 19 May 1961.

2. The above request is corrective in nature as it was not
   intended to change the travel expense provision which had been in
   effect during his previous contract.

![signature of W. E. BROOKS]
W. E. BROOKS
Chief, WH Support

Note: Per WH/B&F no travel and
operational expense accountings have
as yet been forwarded to FD. Both
Division and subject intended subject's old
travel and operational expense clause to be a part of
the 19 May 1961 agreement. Check List was in error
on this point.

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Finance Division
Attention: Contract Agent Section

13 July 1961

VIA: Contral Cover Division
Attention: Mr. Millen

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN (p): Method of Payment

1. It is requested that Finance Division pay
   Contra et Agent Edward G. TICHEORU (p) through Central Cover
   Division's mechanism Ashmoad, Hanniford Associates. TICHDORN'
   new contract became effective 19 my 1%1.

2. It is requested that walory dus TICHBORN
   ainco the effective date of his contract be paid as soon as
   poosible.

3. Attached horeto are forms 281 and 13a (top
   section). The botton section of 313a is distributed separately.

J. C. King
Chief
Yostorn anis here Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

# EMPLOYEE'S WITHHOLDING EXEMPTION CERTIFICATE AND QUESTIONNAIRE

PRINT NAME (Pseudonym)

TICINOGEN, Edward 0.

## WITHMOLOINS EXEMPTIONS

INSTRUCTIONS

1.  NUNRER OF EARSTIOONS... Do not claim more than the correct number of exemptions. However, if you expect to ove more income tax for the year then will be withheld if you claim every exemption to which you are entitled, you may increase the withholding by claiming a smaller number of exemptions.

2.  CHANGES IN KAENGTIONS. You may file a new certificate at any time at the number of your exemp?inns INCREASES.

You must file a new certificate within 10 days if the number of exemptions previously claimed by you URREASKS for any of the following reasons:

(a) Your wife (or husband) for whom you have been claiming exemption is divorced divorce or legally separated, or claims her (or his) own exemption on a separate certificate.

(b) The support of a dependent for whom you claimed exemption is taken over by someone else, so that you no longer expect to furnish more than half the support for the year.

(e) You find that a dependent for whom you claimed exemption will receive $600 or more of income of his own during the year (except your child who is a student or who is under 19 years of age).

OTHER DECREASES in exemption, such as the death of a wife or a dependent, do not affect your withholding until the next year, but require the filing of a new certificato by December 1 of the year in which they occur.

For further information about changes in exemption status rosulting from marriage, divorce, legal separa.

tion, birth, death, new dependents, multiple-support agreements, old age, blindness, etc., consult your local District Director of Internal Revenue of your employer.

3.  DEFENDENTS.: To qualify as your dependent (line 4 below), a person (s) must receive more than one-half of his or her support from you for the year, and (b) must have less than $500 gross mume during the year (except your child who is a student or who is under 19 years of age), ag and (c) must not be claimed as an exempe tion by such person's husband or wifs, and (d) must be • citizen or resident of the United States or a resi. dent of Canada, Mexico, the Republic of Faneme of the Canal Zone, and (e) must (1) have your home es his principal residence and be a member of your household for the entire year, or (2) be related to you as follows:

Your son or daughter (including legally adopted children), grandchild, stepson, stepdaughter, son in-law, or daughter-in-law;

Your father, mother, grandparent, stepfather, stop. mother, father-in-law, or mother-in-tow:

Your rother, sister, stepbrother, stepsister. er, half brother, half sister, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law:

Your uncle, aunt, nephew, or niece (but only if related by blood).

4.  PENALTIES...Penalties aro Imposed for willfully supplying falso information or willful failure to sup. ply information which would reduce the withholding exemption.

1. If SINGLE, and you claim an exemption, write the figure "1"

2. If MARRIED, one exemption each for husband and wife if not claimed on another certificate.

(a) If you claim both of these exemptions, write the figure "2"
(b) If you claim one of these exemptions, write the figure "1"
(c) If you claim neither of these exemptions, write "0"

}

3. Exemptions for age and blindness (applicable only to you and your wife but not to dependents):

(a) If you or your wife will be 65 years of age or older at the end of the year, and you claim this exemption, write the figure "1"; if both will be 65 or older, and you claim both of these exemptions, write the figure "2".

(b) If you or your wife are blind, and you claim this exemption, write the figure "1"; if both are blind, and you claim both of these exemptions, write the figure "2"

4. If you claim exemptions for one or more dependents, write the number of such exemptions. (Do not claim, exemption for a dependent unless you are qualified under instruction 3 above.)

5. Add the number of exemptions which you have claimed above and write the total.

2

3

5


| INDICATE SOURCES OF INCOME |                      |
| -------------------------- | -------------------- |
| ![photo description]       | ![photo description] |
| ![photo description]       | ![photo description] |


| SALES DITHHELD FROM PROVE COVER        |
| -------------------------------------- |
| INDICATE VPELS) OF TALES AND AMOUNTIS) |
| INDICATE COVER PAY PERIO               |


| SOURCES COME |
| ------------ |
| U.S. FAXES   |


| DICATE HOW MUCH  |
| ---------------- |
| WITHHELO PER PAY |
| FOREICI TAXES    |


| PER VAAR |
| -------- |
| 3        |
| 3        |


DECLARATION OF ESTIMATES COME TAX

## CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY that the number of withholding exemptions claimed on this form does not exceed the number to which I am entitled, and that the information relative to sources of income shown hereon is correct.

DATE

SIGNED (Proudonya)

313

SECRET

(30)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

1.  PSEUDONYM: TICHBORN, Edward G.

PART I COMPENSATION AND WITHHOLDING DATA

SOURCES OF COMPENSATION PAYMENTS (Check as appropriate)

[X] FIELD ALLOTMENT [X] COVER FACILITY

COMPENSATION PAYMENTS BY COVER FACILITY

TOTAL AMOUNT (Per annum): $8,000 AMOUNT SUBJECT TO TAX: $

EXPLAIN ANY DIFFERENCES UNDER "RE- MARKS" BETWEEN THE AMOUNT AND TOTAL BY GIVING TYPE OF PAY REPRESENTED (Allowances, etc.).

PAYMENTS TO BEGIN (Date):

PAY PERIODS USED BY COVER FACILITY

WEEKLY BI-WEEKLY SEMI-MONTHLY [X] MONTHLY

TAXES TO BE WITHHELD BY COVER FACILITY FROM COMPENSATION PAID

INCOME TAXES: $ AMOUNT WITHHELD PER PAY PERIOD: $ IS SOCIAL SECURITY (FICA) WITHHELD:

NONE THIS COUNTRY: $ FOREIGN: $ YES NO

NAME OF COUNTRY:

COMPENSATION SUBJECT TO A FOREIGN TAX

COVER FACILITY WILL REPORT COMPENSATION AS FOLLOWS (See item 16 below)

[X] WILL NOT REPORT FORM W-2 FORM 1099

COVER FACILITY (Cryptonym):

9.  THE AGENCY WILL REPORT COMPENSATION AS FOLLOWS (See item 16 below)

[X] COVERT (If covert only, omit rest of this item.) FORM W-2 FORM 1099

NAME AND ADDRESS OF OSTENSIBLE EMPLOYER

10. DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED INCOME TAX (Check one)

[X] HAS BEEN FILED [ ] HAS NOT BEEN FILED [ ] NOT APPLICABLE

PART II DEPENDENCY DATA

11. NO. OF DEPENDENTS, INCLUDING SELF, CLAIMED WITH COVER 12. NO. OF DEPENDENTS, INCLUDING SELF, CLAIMED ON FACILITY: TWO FORM 3110 OR W-4 (Or equivalent) ATTACHED

13. MARITAL STATUS (Complete as appropriate)

[ ] SINGLE [X] MARRIED [ ] WIDOWED [ ] DIVORCED

DATE OF MARRIAGE: 5 April 1954 DATE OF DEATH: DATE OF DECREE: [ ] LEGALLY SEPARATED [ ] ANNULLED

CITIZENSHIP OF SPOUSE: RESIDENCE OF SPOUSE (Country):

14. DEPENDENTS ELIGIBLE TO BE CLAIMED FOR PURPOSES OF FILING TAX RETURNS WHO MAY OR MAY NOT BE INCLUDED IN NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS DECLARED ABOVE (Over self and spouse)

| RELATIONSHIP (No Names) | YEAR OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE |
| ----------------------- | ------------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| Boy                     | 1952          | U.S.        | Mexico               |
| Boy                     | 1955          | U.S.        | Mexico               |
| Daughter                | 1957          | U.S.        | Mexico               |

15. REMARKS

16. APPROVAL OF CENTRAL COVER DIVISION

The employer's names and methods for reporting compensation shown in Items 6, and/or 9, above are approved.

17. FORM PREPARED BY: [X] INDIVIDUAL [ ] OFFICIAL

PART I CERTIFIED CORRECT

DATE: 13 July '61 SIGNATURE OF OFFICIAL:

W. Labean Smith

PART II CERTIFIED CORRECT (Explain when not signed)

DATE: SIGNATURE OF INDIVIDUAL (Pseudonym):

(not available)

DISTRIBUTION: SIGNED ORIG. AND COPY - TO FINANCE COPY - TO CENTRAL COVER. COPY - TO FILE

FORM 313a OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, DHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Signed Contract for Edward G. TICHBORN

ACTION REQUIRED: None for information.

REFERENCES: HWS-1921, 6 June 1961

1.  Returned herewith is one copy of Edward G. TICHBORN's contract.

2.  Regarding paragraph 1 of the contract, TICHBORN states that he has already arranged with Headquarters to mail his salary check from a foundation in Philadelphia to his bank.

3.  TICHBORN further states that under his previous contract he did not file a covert tax return and taxes were not withheld. According to TICHBORN he was told in Headquarters that KUBARK would depend on him to report his KUBARK income as coming from the Philadelphia client and it would be incorporated in his overt return. TICHBORN does not wish to give a copy of his overt return to KUBARK.

Willard C. Curtis

Attachment: TICHBORN Contract (1 copy), h/s

5 July 1961

Distribution:

3 - Hqs, w/att

2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

Mr. Edward O. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 15 October 1959, as amended. Effective 18 May 1961, said contract is hereby terminated by mutual consent of the parties hereto and in lieu thereof the following is substituted.

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officen hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

## 1. Compensation

In full consideration for the submission of such information and services, you will be paid an amount calculated at the rate of $8000 per annum. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. Monies paid you by the Government under this paragraph constitute income for Federal tax purposes. You will be advised as to the method to be followed in reporting and paying such taxes. The method as well as the procedures used by this organisation to implement ite tax reporting responsibilities will be based primarily upon cover and security requirements. You herein authorize this organization to withhold taxes on said Income if it determines such requirements so necessitate.

## 2. Travel and Gerational Expenses

You will be advanced or reimbursed furids incurred in connection with such operational travel as may be directed or authorized by the Government. This may include per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of auch travel and while on temporary duty away from your perma- nont post of assignment. In addition, you will be advanced or roimbursed funda for necessary operational expensos as specifically approved by the Government, Payment and accounting for all expensos incurred hereunder will be in sub- stantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

## 3. Ropayment

I is recognised that your failure to account for or refund any montes advanced you asreunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deerns appropri- ato.

## 4. Funding

It is necessary to protect the security of this arrangement, monies dua you hereuncer may be funded in other than a direct manner. It is junderstood and agreed that any monies so funded constitute payment by the Government in satisfaction of its obligations under thia agreement.

## 5. Execution of Documents

I, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which proр- Perty has in fact been purchased with montes of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either Foxpress or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

6. Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

7. Instructions. Instructions received by you from the Government in briefing, training or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

8. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government.

9. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.

10. Term. This contract is effective as of 19 May 1961, and shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated either:

(a) By.thirty (30) days' actual notice by either party hereto, or

(b) Without prior notice by the Government, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreamont may be extended upon notice from the Government. Termination of this agreement will not release you from the obligations of any security path you may bo required to tako.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Edward G. Tichborn

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

RC ejul/29 May 61
wdl/jmpaper
CA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

1. NAME:

TICHE!!, Edward O.
C-77112

5. PREVIOUS CIA PSEUDONYM OR BLIASES

2A. PROJECT:

JMPOPLAR-10

2B. PERMANENT STATION:

3. ALLOTMENT NO.

4. SLOT NO.

6. INDIVIDUAL HAS BEEN PROPOSED BY CIA OR ITS ALLIED ACTIVITIES IN SOME CAPACITY
   PRIOR TO THIS CONTRACT. [X] yes ☐ no (If yes, describe and include dates and salary.)

Contract Agent (Independant Contractor) Contract signed

15 Oct 1959. Basic salary $50.00 per day.

7. SECURITY CLEARANCE (Type and date)

7A. MEDICAL CLEARANCE

8. CONTRACT IS TO BE WRITTEN IN STERILE FORM
   I.E., "U.S. GOVERNMENT" [X] yes ☐ no

9. INDIVIDUAL WILL WORK UNDER "CONTROLLED CONDITIONS" I.E., REGULAR OFFICE
   HOURS AWAY FROM SUBJECT'S HOME AND PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A
   STAFF EMPLOYEE OR STAFF AGENT.

10. PROPOSED CATEGORY (Contract agent, contract employee, etc.)

Contract Agent

## SECTION II

PERSONAL DATA

11. CITIZENSHIP:

United States

12. IF NOT U.S. CITIZEN, INDIVIDUAL IS A PERMANENT RESIDENT ALIEN ☐ yes ☐ no

13. AGE:

41

14. DATE OF BIRTH (Month, day, year)

28 May 1920

15. LEGAL RESIDENCE (City and state or country)

6505 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles, California

16. CURRENT RESIDENCE (City and state or country)

17. MARITAL STATUS (Check as appropriate):

SINGLE ☐ MARRIED [X] WIDOWED ☐ ANNULLED ☐ SEPARATED ☐ DIVORCED

18. NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including individual) RELATIONSHIP AND AGE:

2 Sons - Sven 9, and Gregory 6 years old;

1 Daughter - Drasilla 3 years old.

19. INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE, STAFF AGENT OR
    AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME CAPACITY
    RELATIONSHIP? ☐ yes [X] no

## SECTION III U.S. MILITARY STATUS

20. RESERVE:

21. VETERAN:

Yes

22. IF RETIRED, INDICATE CATEGORY (Longevity, combat disability, service disability non-combat)

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE:

US Army, Medical Corps

24. RANK OR GRADE:

Staff Sergeant

25. DRAFT ELIGIBLE: ☐ yes [X] no

26. DRAFT DEFERMENT OBTAINED BY CIA:
    NA

## SECTION IV COMPENSATION

27. BASIC SALARY:

$8,000.00 per yr.

28. POST DIFFERENTIAL:

N.A.

29. COVER (Breakdown, if any):

N.A.

30. FEDERAL TAX WITHHOLDING

COVER
CIA
yes ☐ yes ☐
[X] no [X] no

## SECTION V ALL GRANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)

31. QUARTERS:

N.A.

32. POST:

N.A.

33. OTHER:

N.A.

34. COVER (Breakdown, if any):

Commercial

## SECTION VI TRAVEL

35. TIPS ☐ yes [X] no

36. WITH DEPENDENTS ☐ yes [X] no

37A. TO BE SHIPPED: ☐ domestic operational

37B. PERSONAL VEHICLE TO BE SHIPPED ☐ yes [X] no

38. TRANSPORTED VEHICLE TO BE STORED ☐ yes [X] no

39. USED FOR OPERATIONAL TRAVEL ☐ yes N.A. no

40. IF WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH

41. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH:

CIA regulations

## SECTION VII OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

42. PURCHASE OF INFORMATION

43. ENTERTAINMENT

44. OTHER: Subject will be reimbursed for operational expenses (travel & per diem, including mileage for travel by private vehicle), when making AUSARK-directed trips outside Maxico City.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST
(CONTINUED)

NOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHEET.

SECTION VIII

40. BENEFITS (See F 20-615. R 20-620. R 20-670. R 20-1000. and HB 20-620-1. HB 20-1000-1 and/or successor regulations for benefits applicable to various categories of contract personnel.)

N.A.

SECTION IX

47. STATUS
    (Check)
* PROPOSED
* ESTABLISHED

48. TYPE
    (Check)
* PROPRIETARY
* SUBSIDIZED

COVER ACTIVITY

* CULTURAL
* EDUCATIONAL

* COMMERCIAL
* MILITARY

* TOURIST
* OTHER

49. IF COVER PAYMENTS ARE CONTEMPLATED. THEY WILL BE EFFECTED ON REIMBURSABLE BASIS

N.A.

* YES
* NO

* COMPLETE
* PARTIAL

SECTION X

50. OFFSET OF INCOME AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES (If less than total, justify in separate memo attached hereto.)

* TOTAL
* PARTIAL
* NONE

TERM

SECTION XI

51. DURATION

2 DAYS

MONTHS

YEARS

52. EFFECTIVE DATE
    19 May 1961

53. RENEWABLE

* YES
* NO

54. TERMINATION NOTICE (Number of days) /

30 days

55. FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR RESIGNATION PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION

* YES
* NO

SECTION XII

56. PRIMARY FUNCTION (CI, FI, PP, other)

C.A.

FUNCTION

SECTION XIII

57. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

DUTIES

Subject will spot and assess student leaders in relation to ZREAGER Program. Subject will travel throughout the Hemisphere on political action missions as directed by WHD.

SECTION XIV

58. EXPERIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

Subject has carried out several high-level political action assignments for KUBARK in Latin America and other areas. He is particularly experienced in advising on political techniques.

59. EDUCATION
    (Check Highest Level Attained)
* GRADE SCHOOL
* BUSINESS SCHOOL GRADUATE
* COLLEGE (No degree)
* HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
* COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE
* TRADE SCHOOL GRADUATE
* POST GRADUATE

60. LANGUAGE COMPETENCY

LANGUAGE

SPEAK

WRITE

READ

61. INDIVIDUAL'S COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

Spanish

*X*

*X*

*X*

United States

(Check Appropriate Degree Competency)

62. AREA KNOWLEDGE

Mexico; Latin America.

SECTION XV EMPLOYMENT PRIOR TO CIA

63. GIVE INCLUSIVE DATES. POSITION TITLE OR TYPE WORK. SALARY AND REASON FOR LEAVING

Subject is in private law practice.

SECTION XVI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

64. ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS, JUSTIFICATIONS OR EXPLANATIONS (Use other side if necessary)

Subject will be authorized to audit courses of instruction in universities in Maxico City on a reinbursable basis, in fulfillment of objectives under the ZREAGER Program.

APPROVAL

DATE

TYPED NAME & SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OPERATING OFFICIAL

DATE

TYPED NAME & SIGNATURE OF CONTRACT APPROVING OFFICIAL

23 May 1961

Penny, Charles P., /WH/CA/Prop

23 May 61

Paul E. Arneson, C/WH/Support


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

22 May 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Payroll Division

SUBJECT: Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

1. Please cancel Edward G. TICHBORN's present contract effective as of 25 May 1961.
   cob /y
2. A new contract for Subject will be requested by the WH Division in the immediate future.

Thomas F. McCoy
Acting Chief
Political Action Group
Covert Action Staff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

22 May 1961

SUBJECT: New Contract for Edward G. TICHBORN (p)
C-77119

Preparation of a new contract for Subject is requested, to be drawn up on the basis of the attached Contract Information Check List.

![signature of R.W. Herbert]
R. W. Herbert

J. C. KING
Chief

Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

ORIG.C.C.PKUNEY
UNIT/PO/B
EXT 3503
DATE 22 MAT 1961 1667

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF, WH 5

INFO, CA 2, CA/PRG, CI/OA, OP 2, S/C 2

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

22 MAY 61 23 01Z
910-CRM
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

TO:
MEXI
INFO
CITE DIR
NP 58,OUT58552
41303
41303

1. REWARD O. TICHBORN IDEM A DEPARTED WASH 20 MAY FOR MEXI WHERE HE WILL BE EMPLOYED AS LEGAL COUNSEL TO LIEN B.

2. TICHBORN HAS BEEN USED BY KUBARK AS POLITICAL ADVISOR ON ELECTION OPS. PRIOR DEPARTURE HAS DISCUSSED CONTRACT POSSIBILITIES WITH HIM AND AGREED PREPARE CONTRACT WHICH WILL BE SENT MEXI NEAR FUTURE FOR SIGNATURE.

3. HQS ANTICIPATES USING TICHBORN AS ROWING POLITICAL ADVISOR PROVIDINO VARIOUS FIELD STATIONS WITH GUIDANCE ON ELECTION OPS. WILL ALSO USE HIM TO DEVELOP ZREAGER CAMIUTATES VARIOUS COUNTRIES AND HAI APPOINT HIN FIRLD RAP FOR DTFHBARGO.

4. TICHBORN WILL HAVE NO OPS RESPONSIBILITIES MEXI UNLESS STATION SO DESIRES. HOWEVER HE WOULD MEQUIRE BOMS CONSIO AND ADMIN SUPPORT WHEN OVERT CHANNELS UNSUITABLE.

5. POUCHING PROPOSED CONTRACT AND MORE INFAILS RE POSSIBLE USE IN NSAR FUTURE. REQUEST STATION OFFICER USING NAME "FRANK NELSON" CALI, TICHBORN AT HOTEL HUNTEJO, REFORMA 29 HAY TO ESTABLISH INITIAL CONTACT. ATTEMPTINO HAVE CONTRACT MEET BY THAT TIME.

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

S-E-C-R-E-T

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 15 October 1959, as amended.

Effective 23 February 1961, the first sentence of paragraph one (1), entitled "Compensation," is suspended and in lieu thereof is substituted the followings:

"In full consideration for your undertaking a task, the subject matter and scope of which have been made known to you, you will be paid a fee in the amount of $ 1000.00. Payment of said fee will be made you upon the successful completion of the task, after which the suspended portion of paragraph one (1) shall once again assume full force and effect. "

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Edward G. Tichborn

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

CA PAC Szinateal
CA
Co (All Trihael x4941

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

3 March 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Contract Amendment #2 for Edward G. TICHBORN (P)

1.  Contract amendment #2 is requested for Edward G. TICHBORN using the same general fomat as used in the first amendment excepting that Subject will receive the entire fee upon completion of the task. It is requested that the amount of the fee be left blank. Your office will be notified as to the correct figure as soon as it is determined.

2.  The amendment is to be effective as of 23 February 1961.

![signature of Horace W. Davis]

Horace W. Davis
Chief
Political Action Group
Covert Action Staff

The figure $1000 is your Bull

![signature of Shichael Mar 61]

Shichael Mar 61

ed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

9 February 1960

Bishop
ar Clafan
H Hornbgr
Jek Rogan

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Edward G. Tichborn (P) - Hernia

1. On 1 February Edward G. Tichborn advised me that in lifting his bag out of a taxi on his return trip from Cuba, he suddenly felt a pain in the groin and was afraid that he had a hernia.

2. On the way to the airport he asked me if there would be any chance of the Government picking up his medical expenses in the event that he actually had a hernia which required any substantial treatment. I told him at that time that I did not know what the Government's position would be, but that I would check into the matter and let him know.

3. On 2 February, I contacted Mr. Vernon Turner, SOA/DDU, and explained the circumstances to him. At that time, I also pointed out that as far as the provisions of his contract were concerned, it was stated that he was not an employee of the U. S. Government and while it did not make specific reference to medical payments while he was working for us, it did not specifically preclude such payments.

Mr. Turner stated that although the contract hinted he was not an employee of the U. S. Government, in actual fact during the period he was doing our bidding on OAS, I went on further to explain to Mr. Turner that in all probability we will call on Tichborn to do future services for us and that while he was being paid, it was doubtful that this reimbursement was to equal what he would make in his regular law practice. Mr. Turner stated that there were a number of ways that we could alleviate his situation should it become necessary.

Misunderstanding. I said the facts of a case - not the words in a paper would probably be the basis for determination of employee status. If we wish to pay in this case a contortiod paipment- not necessarily related to medical problem - would probably be better.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

4. The conclusion reached between me and Mr. Turner was that I should point out to Tichborn that we were under no obligation to recompense him for his injury; however, that upon the completion of treatment if he would submit a claim, we should be glad to review it sympathetically.

5. I passed the gist of the above on to Tichborn on 3 February.

![signature]

Horace W. Davis
Chief
Political Action Division

HWD: bil

Distribution:
Orig. - subj. file
- 1 - SSA/DDS
- 1 - chrono

![Stamp indicating page number]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Μτ. Εσπαrú C. Tichdues

Doar Ar. Tichborn:

Pelorence la made to an agreement by and between yourself and the
United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective
15 October 1939.

Effective 13 January 1969, the first sentence of paragraph one (1),
entitled "Compensation," is suspended and in lieu thereof is substituted the
followings

"in full consideration for the undertaking by you of a task, the subject
matter and scope of which has or will be made known to you, you will
be paid a fee of $1300. It is understood and agreed that said fee is based
upon the fact that the completion of the specified task can be achieved
within a 21-day period. One-half of said fee may be advanced you as
of the effective date of this amendment. Upon the successful completion:
of the task, you will be paid the remaining one-half, after which the
suspended portion of paragraph one (1) shall once again assume full
force and effect."

All other terms and conditions of the agreement, as amended, remain in
full force and effect.

You will pleaco indicate your approval by signing in the space provided
bolow.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Gificar

ACCEPTED!

Edward C. Tichbor24

WITHESS

ΑΡΡΡΟΥED:

Ntflakw-12 Jan 60

C.A.

teal

C. 2017


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

8 January 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

ATTENTION: Mr. Miller

SUBJECT: Contract Amendment for Edward G. Tichborn (P)

To confirm your telephone conversation of this date with Barna Sprague, we wish to have the amendment for Subject's contract effective as of 13 January and to provide for basic compensation in the amount of $1300. for a period of approximately 21 days. We wish, further, to pay Subject one-half of this fee upon the date the contract amendment becomes effective. Should Subject complete his assignment in less than 21 days, he is still to be entitled to a payment of $1300. for his services.

![Signature of Horace W. Davis]

Horace W. Davis
Acting Chief
Political Action Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

Mr. Edward G. Tichborn

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

The United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1.  Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such information and services you will be compensated, on a fee basis, at the rate of $50.00 per day or any fraction thereof during which your services are utilized hereunder, not to exceed $265 per week. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to CIA. No taxes will be withheld therefrom, but it will be your responsibility to report such income under existing federal income tax laws and regulations. An appropriate Form 1099 will be furnished by the Central Intelligence Agency in furtherance of the tax reporting requirement.

2.  Travel and Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds on an actual, reasonable and necessary expense basis for those expenses incurred by you in connection with such operational travel as may be directed or authorized by the Government and while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. In addition, you will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses as specifically approved by CIA. Payment and accounting for all expenses incurred hereunder will be in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

3.  Repayment. It is recognized that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle CIA to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.

4.  Execution of Documents. In the performance of services under this contract, you agree to the custody of Government funds or take title or record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

5.  Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

6.  Secrecy. You will be required to keep, forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws, dated 15 June 1918, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

7. inotructiono. Instructions received by you from Ctn in brieling, training or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein. provided that ouch motructions are not inconsistent with the 'or co hereci.

8. Unauthorized Comnit nonts. No pr. nised or con nit.nonte pertaining to rights, privileges or beneinte uther than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agrua ment or any a nend-nent theruto shall be birming on the Govorn nont.

9. Torm. This contract is effective as of 15 October 1939, and shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) yeara unless sooner terminated a.ther:

(a) Dy thirty (30) days' actual notice by either party hereto, or

(b) Without prior notice by CIA, in the event of a broach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof ur by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended upon notice from CIA. Termination of this agreement will not release you fron tha obligations of any security cath you may be required to taka.

CENTRAL HITELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

Special Contracting Cょの

ACCEPTED:

Edward C. Lachbera,

WIT NA:

APPRCYC

/14059
lactial
PP/PPO/ Splectick
C. Horace Dave 2017
c.
AL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

INSTRUCTIONS: Complete all items, inserting “NA” when items are not applicable. Forward original and one copy for preparation of contract

1. NAME:
   Edward G. Tichborn

2A. PROJECT:
SGLACTEAL

Horace W. Davis
AC/PP/PAD
2017
7 October 1959

3. ALLOTMENT NO.:
   9-2100-91-599

4. SLOT NO.:

5. PREVIOUS CIA PREUDONYM OR ALIASIS:
   NA

6. INDIVIDUAL IS PRESENTLY ENGAGED, OR HAS BEEN ENGAGED BY CIA OR ITS ALLIES ACTIVITIES IN SOME CAPACITY (If yes, describe and include salary)

7. SECURITY CLEARANCE (Type and date):
   POA, 11 May 1959 - OA pending

8. CONTRACT IS TO BE WRITTEN IN STERILE FORM I.E., “U.S. GOVERNMENT”

9. INDIVIDUAL WILL WORK UNDER "CONTROLLED CONDITIONS" I.E., REGULAR OFFICE HOURS AWAY FROM SUBJECT'S HOME AND PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A STAFF EMPLOYEE OR STAFF AGENT

10. PROPOSED CATEGORY (Contract agent, contract employee, etc.):
    Contract agent

## PERSONAL DATA

11. CITIZENSHIP:
    US

12. IF NOT U.S. CITIZEN, RESIDENT ALIEN:
    NA

13. AGE:
    39

14. DATE OF BIRTH (Month, day, year):
    28 May 1920

15. LEGAL RESIDENCE (City and state or country):
    Los Angeles, California

16. CURRENT RESIDENCE (City and state or country):
    Los Angeles, California

17. MARITAL STATUS (Check as appropriate):
    Married

18. NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including individual) RELATIONSHIP AND AGE:
    2 sons, 7 and 4 years old.
    1 daughter, 1 year old.

19. INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE, STAFF AGENT OR AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME CAPACITY RELATIONSHIP

## U.S. MILITARY STATUS

20. RESERVE

21. VETERAN:
    Yes

22. IF RETIRED, INDICATE CATEGORY (Longevity, combat disability, service disability non-combat)

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE:
    US Army Med. Corps

24. RANK OR GRADE:
    Staff Sgt.

25. DRAFT ELIGIBLE:

26. DRAFT DEFERMENT OBTAINED BY CIA:

## COMPENSATION

27. BASIC SALARY:
    $50.00 per day

28. POST DIFFERENTIAL

29. COVER (Breakdown, if any)

33. TAXES TO BE WITHHELD BY:
    CIA
    NOT WITHHELD

## ALLOWANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)

31. QUARTERS:
    NA

32. POST:
    NA

33. OTHER:

34. Cover (Breakdown, if any)

## TRAVEL

37. HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS TO BE SHIPPED

38. PERSONAL VEHICLE TO BE SHIPPED

39. TRANSPORTED VEHICLES TO BE USED FOR OPERATIONAL TRAVEL

40. WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH

Subject will be reimbursed for all expenses and in addition will receive $12.00 per-day when working, not to exceed $295.00 per week.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST (CONTINUED)

WITH SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHEET.

48. BENEFITS (See Part XIV of Confidential Fund Regulations or successor regulations for benefits applicable to various categories of contract personnel. If medical benefits are requested. see 8 18-230 or successor regulations.)

## SECTION IX

47. STATUS 48. TYPE COVER ACTIVITY

(Check) X (Check) SUBSIDIARY CULTURAL X COMMERCIAL
ESTABLISHED ESTABLISHED EDUCATIONAL MILITARY
OTHER PAYMENTS ARE CONTEMPLATED THEY WILL BE EFFECTED REIMBURSABLE BASIS OTHER
COMPLETE PARTIAL
NA
## SECTION X

50. OFFSET OF INCOME AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES (If less than total, justify in separate memo attached hereto.)
    TOTAL PARTIAL NONE

## SECTION XI

51. DURATION 52. EFFECTIVE DATE 53. RENEWABLE

Years 15 October 1959 YES NO

54. TERMINATION NOTICE (Number of days) 55. FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR REDESIGNATION PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION

30 days YES NO NA

## SECTION XII

56. PRIMARY FUNCTION (FI, PP, other) PP

## SECTION XIII

57. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

DUTIES

Subject will consult and advise on political techniques.

## SECTION XIV

58. EXPERIENCE QUALIFICATIONS

Active in Southern California politics, particularly Los Angeles area.

59. EDUCATION GRADE SCHOOL HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE TRADE SCHOOL GRADUATE

Check Highest BUSINESS SCHOOL GRADUATE COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE

Level Attained COLLEGE (No degree) COLLEGE DEGREE X POST GRADUATE LL.B NA PHD

60. LANGUAGE COMPETENCY LANGUAGE SPEAK WRITE READ 61. INDIVIDUAL'S
    COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
    Check Appropriate
    Degree Competency
    Spanish X X X U.S.A.

62. AREA KNOWLEDGE

Mexico; Latin America

## SECTION XV PRIOR EMPLOYMENT

63. JOB AND SALARY PRIOR TO SERVICE FOR CIA

Subject is in private law practice.

## SECTION XVI ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

64. ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS. JUSTIFICATIONS (Use other side if necessary)

NA

![signature] 8/1/59 Hardee W. Davis PP/AC/PAD ![signature] Q.W. 5.9 ![signature] Charles J. Eranais

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)