# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUNE:
APAUJO-Pernal, Leopoldo
201-771754

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: 2 D 11

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 20 Jul 7      |               | Clifford A. FENTON       | ![signature]                    |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# ARAUJC- Bernal, Lespress

201-771754

# STATE DEPT. DOCUMENTS

(1) DESP # 1056, 2 Aow. 1960

Sulj, Medical Asse. Officer the Furie
Indeintion of plans of Bosch for Medical Profession

(2) USINT. Hanna, 25 Oct. 1977 NC 86475

SUBJ. NIV Applications

(3) Com. Emb. Particule of, dated 12 Dec. 1960

# FBI DOCUMENTS

(1) DBA-76368 25 Oct. 1962, Miami, Florida

Subject: Verisimo Francisco Domingo, Sanchez Barrio; Internal security

(2) DBA-78316, 19 May 1961, Miami, Florida

Subject: Foreign Political matters - Cuba

Status of Cuban medical Profession

File: 105-1747

# LIAISON

(1) Document dated 28 mayo 1966

(2) Cable, Meyer City 18206 dated 13 Nov. 1971

(3) Calle, Mexico City "(copy) of above-betting

# CIA DOCUMENTS

(1) Cable DIRECTOR 205666, dated 24 Nov. 1971

(sanitized copy placed in 201)

(2) WH/miami cable 13875, 29 Nov. 1971

(sanitized copy placed in 201)

# AIR ATTACHE

(1) I.R. 457-54 Air Attache. Office, Rome, Italy, 1971


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

![SIGNAL CENTER USE]

- SECRET

1023192 CIA/DDO

CONF: INFO: FILE

TO: PRIORITY DEPT OF STATE INFO FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.Y

SECRET WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

CIR-336/03356-77

DONKEY CHIPMUNK

REF: HAVANA 0427 DATED 25 OCTOBER 1977 SUBJECT: NEW ADDITIONS

1. SUBJECT: ARAUJO BERNAL: LEOPOLDO EDUARDO (U)

DPOB: 9 JUNE 1912, PINAR DEL RIO, CUBA

2. (S) SUBJECT HAD BEEN REPORTED AS A MILITANT COMMUNIST

SINCE 1935, AND HE HAD BEEN ACTIVE IN MANY COMMUNIST AND LEFTIST

REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATIONS. IN FEBRUARY 1961 HE WAS REPORTED TO BE

AN INFORMABENT OF THE CUBAN 6-2 (SECURITY POLICE). THIS INFORMATION

WAS RECEIVED FROM A GROUP OF CUBAN REFUGEES, TRAINED IN INTELLIGENCE

COLLECTION, WHO HAVE PROVIDED RELIABLE INFORMATION SINCE 1961.

3. CLASSIFIED BY AUTHENTICATING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL

DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY PARA: 10 Nov 1977

5B(2): AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON DATE IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE-

BASED ON: UFGA CIE81; 13 JULY 61; UFGA 15378; 5 NOV 64; FILE IN:
201-771754; ORIG: R HARRIS; UNIT: IP/EIS: JE/DM; EXT: 9461; COORD:
LA/COG: H SPEED; REL: C/PCS/LSN; AUTH: C/IP/RB.

DATE: 10 NOV 1977
ORIG: R HARRIS
UNIT: IP/EIS: JE/DM
EXT: 9461

![signature]

SECRET

RECORD COPY

COORD IN DRAFT:
LA/COG: H SPEED

062147

316-0385877

201-771754

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

INSTRUCTIONS

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no below and forward document to RID AN.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

RID/

COMALIS 2022
GA-637
IP/2R
GA50
EXT. 4239
TUBE GT7

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO      | ROOM NO | DATE       | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| ------- | ------- | ---------- | ----------------- |
| C/WH/C  |         |            |                   |
| DC/WH/C |         | 6 DEC 1971 |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |
|         |         |            |                   |


RID FI

FILE TITLE

ABSTRACT

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-771754

TRACE REQUEST

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

29 Nov 71

UFAA 03604

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: ANOT Report on Dr. Leopoldo Araujo Bernal (201-771754)

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

Reference: WH/MIAMI 13167

Forwarded herewith, as promised in Reference, is a copy of an AKOT report (EE 1970) on Leopoldo Araujo Bernal.

Priscilla J. BRAZLEY

Attachment: Copy of EE 1970, herewith

Distribution:

3 - COS, Mexico City w/att, herewith-To Out Pouch

6 - Chief, WHD without att

CS COPY

UFAA 3604

SECRET

Typed: 22 November 1971

201-771754


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

P
BETTY VAZQUEZ:ak
WH/COG/FI
EXT: 7144 R. 1819
CATE: 6 DEC 1971

CAELE SECRETARIT DISSEMINATION
E46
EY
FER


WHT FLE IR

INCEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE FO
FILE IN CS FILE NO

SECRET

TO TE/TAMI INFO: MEXICO CITY

TYPIC

DED: MUTAVI 13225 (IN 479676)*

CITE DRECTOR 3775

1. WHILE ARAUJO MAY HAVE HAD CONTACT WITH JUSTO CARRILLO'S GROUP
   IN 1958 SUBSEQUENT INFO WOULD TEND TO INDICATE HE NOW IN SOLID WITH
   THE CURRENT REGIME. THEREFORE, DO NOT FEEL CHANCE ENCOUNTER BASED ON
   PPE-REVOLUTION ACQUAINTANCE WOULD BE PRODUCTIVE.

2. FILE: 201-771754.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COLDWENT: *Said Araujo had had contact with Justo Carrillo's
Montecristis group in December 1953 and suggested
Headquarters might want consider sending Carrillo
to Nexico City for chance encounter with Araujo
to explore depth of his ideological sentiments at this
tine.

CS COPY
LAWRENCE STERNFIELD,
C/H/COG

VILLIAN V. BROE
C/HD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTIN SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
COPY NO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINAT CLASSIFIED MESSAGE, TOTAL COPIES: 12-1

SECRET. (When Filled In)

SECRET 221546Z NOV 74 CITE WH/MIAMI 15167

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF: MEXICO CITY 18226 (2)460629 2211or in 475064

1. TRACES ON LEOPOLDO ARAUJO BERNAL (231-771754)

REQUESTED PARA 3 OF REF AS FOLLOWS: DOB 9 JUNE 1912. AS OF MARCH 69 WAS PRESIDENT OF CUBAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION,

PROFESSOR AT HAVANA UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICAL SCIENCES, AND HELD POSITION AT BRAIN FUNCTIONING RESEARCH INSTITUTE.

UFGA 2693, 8 FEB 67, LISTED SUBJECT AS SECRETARY OF PAN AMERICAN MEDICAL CONFEDERATION FOR CARIBBEAN ZONE WHO WAS MANIPULATED BY JOSE ANGEL BUSTAMANTE O'LEARY.

MEMBER OF CUBAN DELEGATION TO 4TH WORLD CONGRESS Oti PSHCYIATRY IN MADRID SEPT 66. ATTENDED VARIOUS INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL CONFERENCES IN EUROPE AND LATIN AMERICA PRIOR TO CASTRO REGIME. RECENT TRAVEL: CUBA TO SPAIN TO UNITED KINGDOM JULY 69, RETURNING CUBA AUG 69, PASSPORT EF/69/733.

2. POUCHING COPY OF AMOT REPORT ON SUBJECT DATED OCT 64. SOURCE OF REPORT IS MEDICAL DOCTOR WHO WAS RESIDING MIAMI AT THAT TIME.

3. FILE: 201-771754. GP-1

SECRET

CS COPY SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET 291622Z NOV 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 13225

DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY

REF: DIRECTOR 235656

RYBAT TYPIC

1. FOR WHATEVER IT IS WORTH. LEADERS OF MONTECRISTI GROUP IN ARAUJO'S HOME LATE DEC 58 WHEN MONTECRISTIS ATTEMPTING MOUNT UP TO TOPPLE BATISTA BEFORE FIDEL COULD. LEADER OF MONTECRISTIS AT THAT TIME WAS FORMER ASSET JUSTO CARRILLO WHO NOW WITH BID SAN SALVADOR. HAS MAY WISH TO CONSIDER HAVING CARRILLO TRAVEL MEXICO CITY FOR "CHANCE ENCOUNTER" WITH ARAUJO TO EXPLORE DEPTH OF HIS IDEOLOGICAL SENTIMENTS AT THIS TIME.

2. FILE: 201-771754. GP-1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

MEXICO CITY

TYPIC

REF: A. MEXICO CITY 18206 (IN 468629)*

B. WE/MIAMI 13167 (IN 475064)**

1. FOLLOWING ATUMENTS INFO PER BAR-ARAUJO IS A LONG-TIME COMMUNIST HAVING BECOME INVOLVED WITH THE PARTY IN HIS SCHOOL DAYS. ON STOPOVER IN SANTIAGO IN JUNE 1963 ARAUJO WAS PERSONALLY RECEIVED BY THE THEN PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE SALVADOR ALLENDE.

ARAUJO IS REPORTEDLY A GOOD PERSONAL FRIEND OF FIDEL CASTRO.

2. ARAUJO HAS BEEN MARRIED AT LEAST TWICE. FIRST WIFE-CARMEN CARRUANA REPORTEDLY A COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBER. SECOND WIFE IS ELSA PRADERES, WHO AS OF 1967 WAS PRESIDENT OF THE ASSOCIATION OF CUBAN PSYCHOLOGISTS. ARAUJO'S DAUGHTER LOIPA ARAUJO PRADERES IS WITH THE CUBAN NATIONAL BALLET AND MARRIED TO A RUSSIAN-BORN BALLET DANCER. SHE IS ALSO A PARTY MEMBER.

3. FILE: 201-771754.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: Requested traces on Araujo who to attend conference in Mexico City. **Sent trace.

WILLIAM V! ROE, C/WH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

PERALE, Legildo DR.

BF

XIX INTERNATIONAL CONGRESS OF FSYCHOLOGY

London
27 Jul-2 Aug 1969

LIST OF MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES

A supplementary list of late registrants will be available at the Congress.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

CANADA (contd)

*SCHUFLIN, David, Dept. of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary..
*SCHMITT, Jocelyne, Dept. of Psychology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon.
*SCHULL, John W., Dept. of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 5.
*SHAHE, S.Gerald, 5545 Cote des Neiges, Suite 575, Montreal 26.
*SHAPIRO, Paul D., 400 Walter Road, Toronto, 10.
*SMITS, Denis H., 30 Colborn Street, Guelph, Ontario.
*SUOMI, Milton D., Dept. of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario.
*TANNENBAUM, Maurice R., DRT, Box 2000, Downsview, Ontario, Canada.
*TULVING, Endel, Dept. of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, 5.
*TURNER, Christopher D., Alcoholism & Drug Addiction Research Foundation, 334 Bloor Street West, Toronto 4, Ontario.
*VIVIAN, Robert G., Dept. of Psychology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta.
*WIGDOR, Blossom T., 503 Roslyn Avenue, Montreal 217, Quebec.
*WINCLA, Gordon, Dept. of Psychology, University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon.
*WONG, Roderick, Dept. of Psychology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver 8.
*WRIGHT, Mary J., Dept. of Psychology, University of Western Ontario,
*ZELLER, Philip R., Dept. of Psychology, Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario.
*ZWEIG, Joseph P., Dept. of Psychology, Sir GeorgeWilliams University, 1435 Drummond Street, Montreal Quebec.

CEYLON

(JAYASURIYA, J.E.) University Bungalows, Sanghamitta Hill, Peradeniya.

COLUMBIA

ARDILA, Ruben, Box 1212, Lincoln, Nebraska 68508, U.S.A.

CUBA

BECKUL, Valdes Leopoldo Dr., Havana University, Havana, Cuba.
GUEVARA, Juan Jose, address as above
PULL, Ernesto Gonzales, " "

CZECHOSLOVAKIA

M. Jilek, Jilovce 1143, Praha 4, Branik.
Bernard, Institute Psychology.
W. Man, Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Praha -Krc, Budejovicka 1083.
Olga, Institute of Physiology, Czech Academy of Sciences, Praha -Krc, Budejovicka 1083.
MIC, Ladislav, Dept. of Educational Psychology, Gondova 2, Bratislava.
Jaroslav, Vrane nai Vitavou 314.
HUMAS, Emil, Ministerstvo skolstvi, Ozeriova 10, Olomouc.
ADAM, Josef, Pribram VII, Pod Halcou 452.
Sci, Bratislava, Karlova 17.
JARMILA, Psychology Institute CSAV, Purkynova 2, Praha 1.
LACKO, Psychiatric Research Institute, Bohnice Prague 8.
SUCHANEK, Otakar, Beleicka 2626, Praha 4, Sporilov II.
HRAZDIRA, Jaroslav, Psychologicky ustav KU, Hradcanske nam 5, Praha-Hradcany.
KRENEK, Praha 10, Nam. Kus. revoluce 24.
Diedrich O., Petrinska 10, Prague 5.
OVA, Jaroslava, Prague 6, Dotalova 86.
SIMEK, Jaroslav, Bratislava 4, Bozeman 1233.
IVAN, Bratislava, Kocelova 17.
Institute of Physiology, Academy of Sciences, Sienkiewiczova, 1, Bratislava.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| S.BJECT OF DOCUMENT              | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                       |                                              |
| -------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
|                                  | AI FILE NO.                                   |                                              |
|                                  | 3. DISPATCH OR SL VIE SOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. CATE |                                              |
| 5. ANALYST                       | 6. SATE PROCESSED                             | 7. SOURCE CRYPTORTY. 8. STOF INFO. 9. COAL.C |
| 10. CROSS REFERENCE TO THIS FILE | 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. CATE                  |                                              |
|                                  | DOCUMENT DISPOSITICR                          |                                              |
|                                  | 13. TRANSFER TO SI FILE NO.                   |                                              |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

ARAUJUUTRAL, LEUPOLDO E. /UR/ 019-000-069/03
201-111/24 UFGA-20430A01
SEX M DUB ? 08 FEB 67
PS.
LIS 7
LCC?
SILKETARY OF THE UMP /PAN AMERICAN MEDICAL
Lund LutnAllon For The CallBDLAN CURL
AND MANIPULATRO DY JUSE ANGEL OUSTAMANTE
U'LEARY /201-223701 AS A PUPPET IU SERVE
HIS ENDS.

UFG R 6705100140

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-771 754


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# DISPATCH

|                                                       | CLASSIFICATION    |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
|                                                       | CONFIDENTIAL      |
| TO                                                    | PROCESSING ACTION |
| Deputy Chief, WE/C                                    |                   |
| FROM                                                  |                   |
| Chief, European Division, UFG                         |                   |
|                                                       |                   |
| Chief of Station, Madrid                              |                   |
| SUBJECT                                               |                   |
| D TTIC/ANTOIL-1                                       |                   |
| Information on Medical Colleagues of ANTOIL-1 in Cuba |                   |
| ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES                          |                   |
| Action: PTI                                           |                   |

1. In late December 1966 and early January 1967 CHTHP-1 debriefed ANTOIL-1 in detail regarding his medical colleagues still in Cuba. ANTOIL-1 said that most of them would like to leave Cuba. The majority of those described below are psychiatrists who are keenly aware of, and depressed by, the effect of the Castro regime. Almost all of the psychiatrists mentioned herein have friends and patients among Cuban Government officials and, in ANTOIL-l's opinion, those defecting would cooperate in extensive debriefings of their considerable knowledge. Most of them frequently travel abroad. ANTOIL-1 is attempting to get them. The defection of any of the psychiatrists would be especially harmful to the present Cuban Government, since it is faced with a rapid increase of suicides, mental illnesses, and alcoholism, stemming from a general breakdown of morals and mental health as traditional values are uprooted and replaced by repressive, unfamiliar demands.

2. In the descriptions that follow, it should be noted that the Department of Psychiatry of the University of Havana Medical School is composed of professors and instructors from the psychiatric staffs of several hospitals, where the classes actually are given; there is no University Hospital per se.

3. Cuban Physicians Considered as Possible Prospects for Defection/ Operational Utilization

> [Figure: Handwritten notes and annotations on the document, including notations like "Possible defector"]

*   ACOSTA Nodal (fnu). Assistant Director of the Department of Psychiatry of the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Full Professor. Acosta, wife, and mother criticize the regime. Has son 13 years of age. Admits correspondence with a brother in the U.S. Takes a courageous stand against the regime but volubly indiscreet. In August 1966 said that he probably was going to be the father of an illegitimate child. Age 40, 5'5", 140 pounds, almost totally bald. Would defect and cooperate in being debriefed if abroad with family.

| REFERENCE SERVICES | DISTRIBUTIONS                                                    |
| ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
|                    | GROUP 1                                                          |
| 201-805766         | CS COPY Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification |
| CASE REFERENCE TO  | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER                                       |
| OSHA-22,232        | DATE                                                             |
| CLASSIFICATION     | 20 January 1967:                                                 |
| CONFIDENTIAL       | NCS FILE NUMBER                                                  |
|                    | 201-805766                                                       |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL, DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OSMA-22,232

**DOB: c. 1925**

J. SUAREZ Ramos, Roberto. Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Intelligent and professionally skilled. Admitted to be a candidate for the Cuban Communist Party in order to live more comfortably. Married to a former medical-school student who desires to leave Cuba and who constantly criticizes the political indoctrination in Cuban schools suffered by their four children. Suarez admits corresponding with a brother in Miami. Age 35-40, 5' 7", 170 pounds, black hair. Would probably defect and be debriefed if abroad with family.

**DOB: c. 1928**

J. YODU Prevez, Rene. Assistant Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Is sole member of Onlixto Garcia staff to side with the staff of the Department of Medical Psychology of the University of Havana, headed by Jose Angel Bustamante, which is notoriously servile to the regime. Attended the 1960 international psychiatric congress in Madrid. Married and regularly fights in public with his wife. Mulatto, Age 35-40, 5' 11", 170 pounds, black hair. Vague possibility of defection and subsequent debriefing, if Yodu felt there was absolutely no risk involved.

**S.F.**

**DOB c.1940**

J. Cunill, Cristina. Specially appointed Professor of Psychology of the University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Only intimate friends know that she is firmly anti-regime, as she pretends the opposite, in order to support her widowed mother and younger brother Philip, currently majoring in English Literature at the University of Havana and attempting to obtain a scholarship for study abroad (probably England) in order to defect. Cunill may have been born in the U.S., when her father was a Cuban diplomat posted there. She would leave Cuba if it were not for family commitments. She is a courageous, discreet woman, about 26 years old, who might possibly work against the regime while still in Cuba, and most probably would do so if she and her family were outside of Cuba. Would seek a scholarship to study abroad if there were a way to make up for the loss of her monthly income of approximately 500 pesos, which is needed for the support of her family.

**DOB: c. 1939**

J. Mora (fnu). Instructor of Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Admits he desires to leave Cuba but is too gripped by inertia or fear to try. His wife also wishes to leave. They have one or two children. Age 25-27, 5' 6", 130 pounds, blond hair. If abroad with family dice he would probably defect and consent to debriefing. He is too timid for any other operational utilization.

**DOB: c. 1928**

J. Perez Villar, Jose. Instructor and head of the Department of Child Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Admitted being so emotionally distressed by his inability to leave Cuba that he requested not teaching university classes. He is attempting to leave through a scholarship, as a delegate to a medical congress, or through the translation/publication of *Intelligence and Americans*, a medical text by U.S. author James Lacy. Eint, with whom he corresponds. He is married and has a 15-year-old son, whom he is resigned to leave behind to perform obligatory military service, in the event he and his wife can-leave. Perez formerly attended a U.S. university. Age 39, 5' 7", 160 pounds, black hair. If outside of Cuba, Perez could be used as an access agent to Cuban officials, as his opposition to the regime is known to only a few friends.

**DOB: c. 432**

J. Lopes, Mirta. Instructor of Child Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Never makes


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CONFIDENTIAL 081-22,232

political comments but does not desire to leave Cuba. In process of divorcing per his stated, a physician for the Ministry of Interior. They have two four or five-year-old children. White male, age 34, 5' 7", 145 pounds, black hair. She would be of little operational use, for she is too lazy to arrange travel outside of Cuba or to work against it.

V.E. Sanches, Isidoro. Instructor/Intern of Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital

DOB: C. 1936
Has an official post, probably secretary of the Communist Youth. Probably defects through obtaining a scholarship to study abroad, probably in England. The scholarship was authorized by the Cuban Government in September 1966. Sanches is intelligent, discreet, and anti-Castro. He is a bachelor, 23 years of age, 5' 4", 130 pounds, black hair. It is virtually a certainty that Sanches will defect while outside of Cuba. There would be an excellent chance of recruitment for use as an access agent.

I
Acereto (fnu). Instructor of Psychiatry, University of
DOB: C. 1932 Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Worked to correct ills of the regime, now disillusioned, depressed, and criticizes the regime in public. Courageous and combative personality. Possible Married, several small children. Brother of Miles Acevedo, defects. professional singer who represents Cuba International events:
Age 34, 5' 7", 130 pounds, brown hair. If armed with family would probably defect and could be used as an access agent.

J. Azzo Canasi, Jorge: Head of the Psychiatric Department of the
201-756155
National Hospital. Assistant Professor at the University of Havana Medical School. See paragraph 1 of CSMA-22,221, dated 30 December 1966.

201-107514
V.K. Frayde, Marta. Former director of the National Hospital, former delegate to LTSM, Paris. Frayde told Cristina Curill

Se: F that she is completely anti-regime, that she personally told Possible Fidel Castro that Communism is ... (obscenity) and that Castro defects. just laughed by way of reply. She is rumored to be protected by Castro, who has allowed her to dedicate herself exclusively to private practice. AMICIL-1 has never met Frayde personally but believes that she would probably defect and undergo debriefing.

GARCIA Mauri, Clotilde. Assistant Professor of Medical
DOB: C. 1928 Psychology of the National Hospital and of the University of
Se: F Havana Medical School. She is single, sexually promiscuous, and has never revealed her political affiliation. Age 30, 5' 6", 125 pounds, brown (but changeable) hair.

V. Grau, Miguel. Instructor of Psychiatry of the National
DOB: C. 1933 Hospital/University of Havana Medical School. He is currently attempting to obtain a scholarship to study abroad in order to defect. Married, two children. Wife is sharply critical of the regime and wishes to leave soonest. Grau is the nephew of
Probably defects. Pedro Grau Triaca, who reportedly made millions of dollars in construction and real estate before Castro came to power. Pedro Grau now lives abroad. He gave Miguel a European trip upon graduation from medical school. Miguel's wife is also from a wealthy family. Age 33, 5' 8", 140 pounds, brown hair. Once outside Cuba with his family, Grau would defect and possibly could be used as an access agent.

N. Muniz Leon (fnu)., Instructor of Psychiatry at the
DOB: C. 1933 University of Havana Medical School/Mazorra Hospital of National Psychiatry. Openly anti-regime; Muniz has requested permission
the requested permission to emigrate.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## CONFIDENTIAL

to emigrate. He is married, has no children. Age 33, 5' 5", 150 pounds, light brown hair. Once allowed to leave, he could be debriefed, but his open request to emigrate would make any use as access agent impossible in spite of his motivation.

**J.** *Esteves, Carlos.* Psychiatrist of the Civil Hospital of Clara Estrella. Secretly but flexible & amenable. Married, two or three children. Age 30, 5' 7", 150 pounds, blond hair. AMCOIL-1 has had no contact with him since 1952.

**4.** Cuban Physicians Whose Defection is Dubious but Not Impossible

**A.** *Collado (fnu).* Official psychiatrist of the Cuban Air Force and formerly of the National Hospital psychiatric staff. He is constantly posing fun at the American Government & sparkling wit at parties that he regularly gives for friends in the Arts, whom he seems to cultivate. He is a close friend of Cristina Cchilli and Marta Frayde, to whom he has admitted feigning approval of the Cuban Government. He is cultured & loves the good life. He was first married to Eva FREJA VALLS, a French national formerly a professor at the Alliance Francaise in Havana, who is now living in France, since their amicable divorce in 1961. He has one child.

Collado moves in high government circles. Age 42, 5' 7", 150 pounds, black hair. He might defect, if shown a good offer, in spite of traditionally seeking not to complicate his life. He can be reached through his former wife, with whom he maintains correspondence. AMCOIL-1 is trying to obtain her secret address.

**K.** *Torroella, Gustavo.* Professor of Psychology, University of Havana Medical School, and head of vocational guidance for the University of Havana. His brother-in-law is Tony Sims, Cuban Foreign Minister. Torroella is most compatible <WITH> with alternating postings in Paris and Havana. In 1960 he told AMTOIL-1 that he intended to publish books outside of Cuba in order to have income and pretexts to justify travel and residence abroad. In AMTOIL-1's opinion, Torroella studied and failed to justify Marxism, and obtained his current UNESCO posting so as to be out of Cuba.

His wife Marta Kouri de Torroella and two daughters are presently in Havana. Age 39, 5' 8", 170 pounds, light brown hair. It is very doubtful that Torroella will openly break with the regime, even though he establishes a semi- or permanent residence abroad, but it might be worth approaching him when he has his family abroad because of his knowledge of, and access to, key Cuban Government officials.

**C.** *Palacios, Claudio.* National Coordinator of Psychiatric Care, Ministry of Public Health, and full Professor of Psychiatry at the University of Havana Medical School/Mazzorra Hospital. He is extremely clever, intelligent, materialistic, and ambitious. He maneuvered himself into an important post and a wealthy private practice. He is a candidate for the Cuban Communist Party, which probably will be denied him because of a previous internship in a New York hospital, according to the opinion of Jorge Abdo Canasi, a former partner in medical practice. Palacios was a delegate to an international congress of psychiatry in Madrid in 1966. He has two daughters by a first marriage; no children by the second. Age 35-40, 5' 5", 170 pounds, brown hair. Defection is doubtful, but it is felt that Palacios would give serious consideration to the offer of any post that would enhance his professional career.

**D.** *Cordota, Armando de.* National Coordinator of Psychiatric Teaching, Ministry of Public Health, full professor, head of the Psychiatric Department of the University of Havana Medical School/Fajardo Hospital. An aristocrat whose effortless adaptation to the regime surprised his cohorts, Cordoba is intelligent, ambitious for power and prestige. He is married, no children. His brother


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CONFIDENTIAL OEMA-22,232

is a former ambassador to Great Britain, who fears that the regime's excesses will strike him. Age 64, 5' 6", 140 pounds, brown hair.
Because of his age and position, defection is highly doubtful, but he would consider any post that would enhance his international prestige; however, it is more likely that he will continue to prefer being an important man in a little country.

5. Cuban Physicians Whose Defection is Considered Virtually Impossible

A. Rodriguez, Luis. Professor and Director of the University of Havana Medical School. He has been a member of the Communist Party in Cuba since a youth. He is intelligent, personable, and dedicated to his career. He is married and has three or four children. Age 36, 5' 7", 180 pounds, black hair.

B. Irizarqui Dupuy, Fidel. Assistant Professor of the University of Havana Medical School, Member of the Cuban Communist Party. He is quite satisfied with the present situation - is well off financially, has prestige, and travels regularly. He was a delegate to the medical congress in India in 1966. He is married to Noemi Valles, a professor of the School of Psychology, University of Havana. Age 35-40, 5' 6", 150 pounds, mulatto.

C. Marrero Darrinsson, Jose. Rector of the University of Havana since August 1966. He made a rapid rise from Director of Rural Health to Vice-Minister of Public Health. He is credited with professional skill as an administrator and public relations type and is said to be a traveling companion of Fidel Castro. He is not believed to be a member of the Communist Party or G-2. Age 34, married and is a former classmate of AMTOIL-1's. 5' 8", 170 pounds, black hair.

D. Corticos Torrado, Francisco. Dean of the Medical School, University of Havana, and brother of the President of Cuba. AMTOIL-1 worked closely with him for six months in a Cienfuegos Hospital and describes him as straightforward, honest, hard working, and one who avoids politics. His present post was forced upon him by his brother. He is married, and one of his sons is active in the Communist Youth. Age 47, height 5' 7", 180 pounds, grey-black hair.

E. Rojas Ochoa, Francisco. Director of National Statistics and member of the Communist Party of Cuba. He represented Cuba as a delegate to the World Health Scholarship in Mexico in 1965 and to a 1966 conference concerning sanitation in Washington, D.C. He was a university classmate of AMTOIL-1's. Age 35-36, 5' 4", 140 pounds, brown hair, balding.

F. Modesto (fnu). Instructor of Psychiatry at the University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital. A Brazilian citizen resident in Cuba since 1961, Modesto is a fanatically anti-American Marxist who broadcasts to Brazil for Radio Havana. He swears he will participate in the violent overthrow of the Brazilian Government, once he returns from Cuba in 1967 via Mexico. He is married to a Cuban whose wealthy father lives in Mexico but travels frequently to Cuba. Age 30-35, 6' 1", 200 pounds, black hair, mulatto. In AMTOIL-1's opinion, Modesto is a dangerous political fanatic, about whom the Brazilian authorities should be warned.

G. Caligarcia, Jose. Director of the Department of Psychiatry of the University of Havana/Calixto Garcia Hospital. Full professor. Attempts to ignore the realities of Cuban life but has been emotionally depressed by them. Age 58-60. Will stay in Cuba where he is assured of material comfort in return for being integrated with the regime.

H. Rodriguez Rivero, Alipio. Instructor of Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical School/Calixto Garcia Hospital.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTINUED

201-805-766


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

OSA-20,232

integrated with the regime. His brother Luis is Director of the University of Favera Medical School. Alipio Rodrigues is ill; he underwent spinal fusion in East Germany in 1965. He is married and has one child. Age 35-40, 5' 7", 140 pounds, light mulatto.

*I.* **FUENTES Ymer** (fnu). Instructor of Psychiatry, University of Havana Medical School/ Calixto Garcia Hospital, Havana, is a Communist but follows the dictates of the regime. Age 20-35, 5' 9", 150 pounds, black hair.

*J.* **DURAN Conejo**, Carlos. Psychiatrist at the Matanzas Civil Hospital. Conejo, a recent graduate, is apolitical and so happy with his 600-peso-a-month salary that he will stay in Cuba. He is a bachelor, age 35, 5' 7", 150 pounds, black hair.

*K.* **MENENDEZ Antal**. Professor of the School of Psychology of the University of Havana Medical School. He is an opportunist and collaborates with the regime. His brother is Mariano Menendez, tobacco painter. Menendez Antal is married and has several children. Age 40, 5' 6", 140 pounds, black hair.

*L.* **GONZALEZ Martin**, Diego. Instructor in the School of Medical Psychology, University of Havana Medical School. He is a married, a former journalist, and member of the Communist Party of Cuba. Age 46, 5' 7", 170 pounds, black hair.

*M.* **DIAZ Barral**, Fernando. Psychiatrist at the Ministry of the Interior and former instructor of psychiatry at the University of Havana Medical School. A convinced Marxist-Leninist (and dissipated), he nevertheless was sharply critical of the Soviet suppression of the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, since he is of Hungarian descent. He is currently the director of psychiatric treatment for personnel of the Ministry of the Interior. His office is at the corner of Avenida de los Presidentes and 19th Street, Havana, in the building formerly occupied by the Brazilian Embassy. Barral is a skilled and intelligent psychiatrist who is assisted in his work by Dr. Abilio DIAZ Abascal, a Communist. Barral is divorced from a Hungarian-born physician and is now married to a luxury-loving medical student many years his junior. Age 35-40, 5' 6", 150 pounds, brown hair.

*N.* **DIAZ Abascal**, Abilio. A recently graduated psychiatrist. He is an assistant to Dr. Fernando Barral in the psychiatric department of a clinic in Havana for personnel of the Ministry of the Interior. He is ignorant and illogical, constantly bragging of revolutionary experiences with Castro in the mountains. Age 35-40, 5' 4", 140 pounds, blond hair.

*O.* **VILLA Landa**, Florencio. Visiting professor at the Naval Hospital and the University of Oriente in Santiago de Cuba from September 1958 to June 1959. A life-long Communist, Florencio has a brother who is the physician for the Cuban Embassy in Madrid. Both brothers were born in Spain. Age 45-50, 5' 6", 140 pounds, black hair.

*P.* **ARAUJO, Leopoldo**. President of the Cuban Psychiatrists' "Association and Professor/Assistant Director of the Department of Medical Psychology, University of Havana Medical School. He is fully integrated with the regime but held important posts, such as head of the Psychiatrists' Association, under Batista as well. Araujo is married to Elsa Praderes, President of the Association of Cuban Psychologists. One of two or three daughters, Loipa ARAUJO Praderes, is with the Cuban National Ballet and married to a Russian-born ballet dancer. Age 50, height 5' 7", 160 pounds, black hair.



CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

PAGE NO

6

CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CONFIDENTIAL

DEB: 1916
201-022396
CEA-22,232

Is *Constante*, also *Augie*: professor and head of the Department of Medical Psychology of the University of Havana Medical School. Is fully integrated with the party, but it is believed that he is not a member of the Communist Party of Cuba.

Is materialistic and a political maneuverer who held important posts under Batista as well. He travels regularly. He is married to Maria Luisa Colombie, a professor of Spanish for the Ministry of Education, and they have one son about 25 years old. Age 50, 5' 6", 150 pounds, black hair.

Ernest P. Bybee
for Floyd B. Mileera


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Following were among the
from Havana on 4 September:
Olga Campos Poca, Manuel
Sosa Escasena to Ro. Enrique Garza Trevino, Jose
Mauricio de Urola, Marta Comer Man,
Manuel Minuez Sandoval, and Juan Ro. Murigo Man and his brother.

Luis Angel Ortiz Monastrio, Sergio Gonzalez Rodriguez,
Constantez Gonzalez Arroyo, Ivan Josejo, and Catalina Eibenchutz de
Baca and his children Julia and Pablo left Mexico City for
on 4 September.

AMERICAN RESIDENTS UNION ELECTS NEW OFFICERS -- Havana, El Mundo, 30
August 1936

The Union of Mexican Residents in Cuba elected new officers.
Chosen president was Humberto Espino-Barros Ramirez; other offi-
cers are Eduardo Canudas, Carlos Moyola, Miguel Kiriev and Amira
Ayalde de Costa.

CUBANS ATTEND CONGRESSES IN WESTERN EUROPE -- Havana, El Mundo, 30
August 1936

Leaving for Madrid were Cuban doctors Claudio Palacios, Angel
Lopez Valdes, Rafael Larragoiti, Jesus Suarez Ramos and Rene You,
who along with Cubans Leopoldo Anario and Jose Angel Eustacente,
are already in Europe, will participate in the Fourth World Con-
gress of Paychiatry, which will be held from 5 to 11 September.

Doctor Julio Martinez Paez left for France where he will at
tend the Tenth World Congress on Orthopedics and Traumatolgy from 4
to 9 September. He will join Doctor Rodrigo Alvarez who already is
in Paris.

Cuban Doctor Ubaldo Pamot, a specialist in obstetrics and
gynecology, will travel to Spain, Great Britain Sweden, and Norway
under a scholarship to widen his knowledge in his fields.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR

IMMEDIATE MADRID INFO SMVAVE, FRANKFURT, GERMANY,

9 22 33 Z CITE DIRECTOR - 24227

TYPIC MHAPRON 9 Sept 66

REF MADRID, 9088/(/N 92.840)

3P

1. TYPIC DESK, TRACES SUBJS REF:

A. DR. JOSE ANGEL BUSTAMENTE O'LEARY HARD CORE COMMIE AT LEAST TWENTY YEARS AND DO NOT BELIEVE HE VULNERABLE ANY PITCH.

B. [DR] LEOPOLDO ARAUJO WAS ONE OF DIRECTORS MEDICAL COLLEGE IN HAVANA AND ONE OF MOST INFLUENTIAL MEDICAL MEN CUBA - ROSE 1O-THIS- POSITION OUT OF COMPARATIVE OBSCURITY. HE COMMIE OF LONG STANDING AND CONSIDERED TO BE ONE OF TOP COMMIE PARTY MEMBERS IN LATIN AMERICA

C. SR. LUIS YODO PREVEZ: ONLY TRACES SHOW HE TRAVELED CZECHOSLOVAKIA '61 AND '62.

D. DR. RAFAEL J. LARRAGOITI, BORN 9/8/12, MATANZAS, CUBA.

GRADUATE UNIVERSITY HAVANA '40. '40 - '43 INTERNED CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL. '43 - '46 RESIDENT IN DEPT- NERVOUS AND MENTAL DISEASES UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL. TOOK POST GRADUATE TRAINING IN ILLINOIS AT

9 Sept 66

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIESI: SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR

(CLASSIFICATION): SECRET
Page 2. CITE DIRECTOR 34227

PSYCHIATRIC AND NEUROLOGICAL INSITITUTE WHERE ALSO STUDIED ELECTRO-
ENCEPHALOGRAM. LICENSED PRACTICE CUBA. PSYCHIATRIST AT CASA DE SALUD,
COVEDANGA FRCM-'48 TO DATE. WAS IN PRIVATE PRACTICE TEACHING UNIVERSITY
HAVANA FROM 1943 TO 1945, PROFESSOR EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHIATRY AT MAZORRA
HOSPITAL DE MENTES DE CUBA FROM 1945 TO AT LEAST 1963. MEMBER CUBAN
PSYCHIATRIC SOCIETY. PUBLISHED ARTICLES IN THERAPEUTICAL DIA 1943 AND
IN REVIEW MEDICAL CIRCULATION FOR CUBA 1945. ADDRESS CALLE 22
NUMBER 273 ALTO VEDACO, HAVANA.

E. DR JORGE LOPEZ VALDES PSYCHIATRIC SPECIALIST IN
DEPENDIENTES DEL COMERCIO HOSPITAL. ONE TRACE LISTS JOSE LOPEZ
VALDES SCHEDULED ATTEND SPECIAL TRAINING IN ORGANIC FUNCTIONS IN
PSYCHIATRIC ESTABLISHMENTS IN USSR FOR TWO YEARS. INFO DID OCT '63.

F. DR. GERARDO NOGUEIRA RIVERO BORN HAVANA 27 JAN '18.
GRADUATED IN MEDICINE FROM UNIV HAVANA. DIRECTOR SANITARY UNIT
MARIANAO '44 TO '47. WORKS IN CHILD PSYCHIATRY. WAS ASSISTANT CLINIC
ANGEL ABELLI FOR CHILDREN. PODIATRIST. ALSO INVOLVED IN TROPICAL
AND PARASITIC MEDICINE. BROTHER, AMGERM-1, TERMINATED JAN '64 FOR
NON PRODUCTIVITY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECCEI
Page 3.
CITE DIRECTOR 34227
G. FO, OR INSIGNIFICANT, TRACES ON REMAINING DRS.

2. UNLESS THERE IS INDICATION THAT ANY SPECIFIC MEMBERS SUSCEPTIBLE, DESIRE THAT APPROACHES BE LIMITED TO ONE-MEMEER CF DELEGATION, PREFERABLY LARRAGOITI SINCE HE HAS AT LEAST BEEN EXPOSED TO THE U.S. PURPOSE OF PITCHING ONE DELEGATE, EVEN THOUGH COLD, IS TO HAVE OTHERS BECOME AVARE THAT RECRUITMENT AND/OR DEFECTION POSSIBLE.

SECRET

NOTE:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE                                                     TOTAL COPIES 34

# SECRET

NSSEM BT 3

ACTION    RID COPY       VANCE COPY     REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FILE VR, WH/C 8, S88, a, clors, callez, F1, Filinta

631453

SECRET 2611432 CITE MADR D 2294

DIRECTOR INFO PARIS JKVAVE

KEYWAY PBRUMEN MHAPRON

QUDOZE 32 MAY REPORTS ARAUJO (FRU) TRAVELING TO PRAGUE AS CUBAN
DELEGATE TO CP CONGRESS. TRAVEL LIST SHOWS ONE LEOPOLDO ARAUJO

BERNAL, CUBAN DIPLOKAT, LEFT MADRID FOR PARIS 1 JUNE.

SECRET

ET

SECRET

201-771754


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

C-0-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

REPORT NO. 00-K-323/03240-66

List of Psychiatrists Who Have Attended DATE DISTR. 16 May 66
Medical Congresses and Lectures in the
Sino Soviet Bloc NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES DCS Case 42491
(356) Responsive to
C-S14-50555 (closed)

Cuba - Apr 66 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

Cuban national, A 17 357 520, who arrived in the US on 14 Apr 66. He had been on the staff of the Mazorra Hospital in Havana for more than 25 years.
This is one of several reports. Source specializes in psychiatry.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

The following Cuban psychiatrists have attended medical congresses and lectures on psychiatry in Sino Soviet Bloc and/or other countries:

a. Jose Angel Bustamante - USSR, Communist China and Italy.
He has been a Communist for at least twenty years.

b. Leopoldo Araujo - USSR, Italy, Communist China. He is the current President of the Medical College in Havana.

c. Jose Galigarcia (mnu) - USSR, Communist China, East Germany and Czechoslovakia. He took an intensive course in psychiatry in East Germany.

d. Jorge Abdo Canasi - USSR, Communist China, Czechoslovakia and East Germany.

e. Edmundo Gutierrez Agramonte- USSR, Spain, UK, Czechoslovakia.

f. Armando de Cordova (mnu) - USSR, Communist China, Czechoslovakia.

g. (fnu) Calvizu (mnu) - USSR, Spain, Czechoslovakia, UK.

h. Gerardo Nogueira (mnu) - USSR, Spain, Czechoslovakia, UK.

i. Margarita Prendes Varela - USSR, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Communist China and other Sovbloc countries.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SCIENTIFIC

CURRENT DEVELOPMENT IN MEDICINE

The following is a translation of the titles, authors and summaries of several articles which appeared in the Revista Cubana de Medicina, Vol. IV, No. 2, Havana, 30 April 1965. The pages are indicated before each title.

129 SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGY: A STUDY ON ITS LIMITS AND BASIC CONCEPTS(*)

By Dr. Leopoldo E. Araujo/Bernal(*)

(*) Professor of Medical Psychology, School of Medical Services of the University of Havana. Director of the Department of Social Psychology of the Institute of Advanced Nervous Activity.

137 ELECTROCARDIOGRAPHICAL ALTERATIONS IN THE TRANSVENTRICULAR MITRAL COMMISSUROTOMY

By Dr. A. Hernandez Canero(*), Dr. M. Amoedo Mon(**) and Dr. J. Castillo Navarro (**)

(*) Professor of Internal Medicine, Head of the Cardiology Department of the Comandante Manuel Fajardo Training Hospital.

(**) Assistant Specialists, Department of Cardiology of the Comandante Manuel Fajardo Training Hospital.

142 CONCLUSIONS

1.  The electrocardiograms corresponding to 33 cases of mitral stenosis operated transventricularly were studied.

2.  The rhythm variations, as well as the favorable changes in the auricular and ventricular complex are those which, according to other authors, are present in patients operated transauricularly.

JPRS: SUB No. 33,413 : Date 20 DEC 6516
Trans. ca Cuba No. 341


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

3. Many instances of pericardic injury were observed immediately after the operation. This injury is similar to that observed in patients through the auricle.

4. We were able to observe a fast deviation of the QRS axis towards the left, accompanied by signs of left ventricular hypertrophy, which shows severe mitral insufficiency.

5. The possibility of myocardial infarction following the trans-ventricular mitral dilatation is mentioned.

155

## CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE EMPHYSEMA(*)
### PSYCHOPATHOLOGY

By Dr. Alberto Orlandini N.(**)

(*) Presented before the First Regional Congress on Stomatology of Southern Oriente, on 29 October 1964.

(**) Resident of the Psychiatric Service, Provincial Training Hospital of Santiago de Cuba.

157

## SUMMARY

The chronic obstructive emphysema with breathing insufficiency of the fourth degree originates first delirium, and then catatonic stupor. The psychic disturbances following the changes of consciousness are described.

168

## CARDIOVASCULAR ASPECTS OF SICKLEMIA(*)

By Dr. Jose Cabrera Flores(**) and
Dr. Hugo Camargo Gallegos(°°)

(*) Presented before the First Regional Congress on Stomatology of Southern Oriente. Santiago de Cuba, October 1964.

(**) Dr. Enrique Cabrera Cosio Cardiovascular Department. Provincial Hospital of Santiago de Cuba.

190

## CONCLUSIONS

After studying eight patients with Sicklemia, the most important observation has been the enlargement of the electric systole shown by the electrocardiograms. This is to be confirmed in subsequent studies. Other observations are the presence of the Keglin syndrome in the two cases presenting the lowest hemoglobin level, the evolution with normal cardiac rhythm in most cases. This phenomenon is present in the evolution of chronic anemic syndromes and has not been fully explained yet.

-17-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

Camna

17

The conference of peoples consists of
(21 January 1962) in Havana as a reply to Punta del Este Conference

10. University Rector

Alberto Ponce Concept

Ferre Movement

Unlon of Writers

De Mon Alvarez CTC Foreign Affairs

FEN

FUF

FEE

JJL

Jose

JH

Pedro

FIJP

Leopoldo

National Medical College

Jose Lores Sanchez

Pirelical Confederation

Ramon

CEI Est. Administration

Emilio

OEI Est. Administration

Jose Mata

Committees for Defense of the Revolution

Jesus Valdes Garcia

Tourists

SO: FRIS, 22 January 1962, OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# DISPATCH

TO Chief of Station, JEWAVE

FROM Chief, L/D

SUBJECT TYPIC/Operational/AMOT
Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: UFGA 20354

Subject has been assigned 201-771754.

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - JEWAVE

UPGW-5000

S-E-C-R-E-T

201-771754

25 MAR 1965

201-771754

| OFFICE       | ORIGINATING                   |
| ------------ | ----------------------------- |
| WH/C/RR/OSOA | M. Simmons  db 24 Mar 65 7646 |
| OFFICE       | COORDINATING                  |
| WH/C/RR/OSOA | J. Moughan                    |
| WH/C/MO/F1   | S. Darling                    |
| OFFICE       | RELEASING                     |
| C/WHD        | Desmond Fitzgerald            |

1 - WH/C/RR/OSOA

1 - WH/C/ESEC

1 - 201-771754

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back fap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM: RID/AN

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are proper insert proper file no. below and forward document to FID AN.

PROPER FILE NO

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO                | ROOM NO. | DATE             | OFFICERS INITIALS | COMMENTS                                          |
| ----------------- | -------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. WHSAESC        |          | 18 MAR 65        | QIN               | Copy Detached                                     |
| 2.                |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 3. WN/C/RR/65/CA  |          | 24 MAR 65        | MHA               | See gara 6 advena Hall Filled (Refused) UFEW 5000 |
| 4.                |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 5. WN/C/MO/FI     |          | 26 MAR 1965      | DS                |                                                   |
| 6.                |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 7. WN/C/FI/FC     |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 8.                |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 9. WN/C/RR/OS/MHA |          | Hatcher 30.11.65 | YR                |                                                   |
| 10.               |          | 21               |                   |                                                   |
| 11.               |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 12.               |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 13.               |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 14.               |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 15.               |          |                  |                   |                                                   |
| 16.               |          | 12 HR 22 10 34   |                   |                                                   |
| 17. RID/FI        |          |                  |                   |                                                   |

![Microfilmed MAR 18 1965]

FILE TITLE

ABSTRACT

TRACE REQUEST

INDEX

FILE NUMBER PRIMARY CODE

201-771754

DOCUMENT DATE

12 MAR 65

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 20354


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# DISPATCH

TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Operational/TYPIC/AMOT Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal (201- )

ACTION REQUIRED: See paragraph 5

REFERENCE: UFGA-18378, 4 November

1.  Forwarded herewith are Parts I and II of an AMOT Defection-in-Place Form on Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal, President of the Cuban National Medical Association. Part I contains biographic data on the Source, Alberto Antonio del CASTILLO Guerra (A 12-481-172), a friend of Subject's since 1949; Part II provides background data and an assessment of Subject.

2.  Attached to the Defection Form are AMOT traces on Subject. covering the pericd September-December 1964; AMOT traces dating prior to September 1964 were included with the report forwarded in referenced dispatch.

3.  No identifiable traces were found in JMWAVE on the Source, Alberto Antonio del CASTILLO Guerra. There is voluminous information in Station files on Subject, all available to Headquarters.

4.  In view of Source's assessment of Subject as a Communist sympathizer and a follower of the regime, which is corrcborated by other information available on Subject, we plan to take no further action on this case at the present time and are forwarding the attached form for the record only.

5.  It is requested that Subject be assigned a 201 number and that the individuals appearing in the attachment be carded as marked to Subject's 201 file.

Attachment: Defection Form (Parts I & II), h/w

Distribution: 3 - DC/WH/SA, w/2 cys att.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

## SECRET

TO: Amct-2

FROM: AMDIAL-2

RR-2753.

23 Feb 65.

SUBJECT: Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal, President of the Cuban National Medical Association. Case Но. 237.

DEBRIEFERS: AMCHEER-1. ANTONIC PORTUINDO LARRIEL

Attached herewith is Part I of the Defection Form giving biographic data on Dr. Alberto Antonio del CASTILLO Guerra, who has been Subject's friend since 1949.

(No file traces on this person.)

> [Figure: MICROFILMED MAR 18 1965 DCC. MICRO SER. stamp]

> [Figure: SECRET stamp]

AKHI UFGA 20354

201-771754


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

BB-2753.

No: 237

Date: 23 Feb 65.

PART I

1.  Name: Alberto Antonio del CASTILLO Guerra.

2.  Immigration No.: A-12 481 172 (U.S. resident).

3.  List any and all nicknames, aliases and war nares ever used.

aka "Castillito" (nickname). Close friend and some of rofe on

DR. Leof-Lite ARAUTO FRPNEL 201-77:754
Transmittel of Bic data

4.  Date and place of birth: 20 April 1922, Havana, (ila

5.  Name of spouse (wife or husband): Carmen Rafaela RUIZ Suárez.

(give both patronymic and matronymic for all neres requested)

(Divorced from his ist wife, Raquel CRUZ Flores.)

6.  Date and place of birth of spouse: 17 July 1935, Bayamón, Puerto Rico.

7.  Children: (list by name, date and place of birth)

(Hone by his present wife. The following by his first wife:

a. Alberto del CASTILLO Cruz. Born 17 May 57 in Bavana.

b. Roberto del CASTILLO Cruz. Born 29 Dec 58 in Havana.

c. (No others.)

d.

e.

f.

8.  Father: (sive nare, date and place of birth)

José del CASTILLO Avilés. Born in 1884 in Santiago de Cuba, Oriente
Province. Died in 1948 when he was 64 years old.

9.  Present address of father: (if deceased, write "deceased")

Deceased.

10. Mother: (give name, date and place of birth)

Bárbara María GUERRA Hanson. Born on 4 Dec 1900 in Bagua la Grande, Las

11. Present address of mother: (if deceased, write "deceased")

Deceased.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

EE-2753, Case No. 23. 23 Feb 65 (cont.)

List all brothers and sisters and present address: date and place of birth

a. (None.)

b.

c.

d.

e.

13. What is the date of your arrival in the United States?

1 January 1952.

14. How did you arrive--via Pan, boat, via another country? Give briefly any pertinent details.

Via Spain. Arrived in the U.S. in New York.

15. What is your present address and how long have you lived at this address?

585 SW 13th Ave., Apt. 4, Miami, Fla., phone FR-1-1058.

16. Where are you employed and what is your job title? Practices medicine clandestinely among old patients and friends. Receives some money from Spain. Trying to enter the USAF as a medical doctor.

17. How long have you had this employment?

Since I arrived in the U.S.

18. List your employment in Cuba, giving addresses and dates. (approximate if you are not sure of dates)

Medical doctor in the Cuban Air Force (1956-1959). Doctor in the "Sagrado Corazón de Jesús" Clinic in Vedado section, City of Havana (1954-59), and in the "Hijas de Galicia" Clinic, City of Havana (1954-59). Professor of Medical Clinic Pharmacology in the school of Medicine of Havana, University.

19. List your affiliations with any and all Cuban political parties, and indicate whether you were merely a member or whether you were active and/or held some office--give dates.

"Partido Acción Unitaria" (pro-Batista). Formerly affiliated with the "Partido Revolucionario Cubano (Auténtico)" as a rank-and-file member.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

·BB-2753, Case No. 23-23 Feb 65 (cont.)

20. If you have or ever have had any citizenship other than Cuban, so indicate, giving dates and other pertinent details.

No.

21. List your travel outside of Cuba, giving dates and purposes of such travel.

To the U.S. on vacation more than 5 times since childhood. In 1961, already an exile, to Spain, France and Italy.

22. List any membership in professional and/or social organizations.

Aerospace Medical Association. Cuban National Medical Association and Havana Medical Association. Cuban Endocrinology Society.

23. List your educational background, giving the names and locations of the schools attended and listing any degrees received.

Grammar school and high school in "Colegio de la Salle," Vedado section, City of Havana. Graduated as a medical doctor in Havana University. Aviation Medicine on 4 Apr 58, Texas, U.S.A.

24. List any languages spoken besides Spanish and estimate your fluency in reading, writing and speaking as poor, fair, good or excellent, as indicated.

| Language | Reading   | Writing   | Speaking  |
| -------- | --------- | --------- | --------- |
| English  | excellent | excellent | excellent |
| French   | good      | fair      | fair      |
| Italian  | good      | poor      | poor      |
| German   | fair      | poor      | poor      |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

TO: AMOT-2

FROM: AAMDIAL-2

KB-2753.

23 Feb 65.

SUBJECT: Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Barnal, President of the Cuban National Medical Association. Case Do. 237.

DACHEEIR-I ANTONIO PERTUIADO LARRIEU

Attached herewith is Part II of the Defection Form giving biographi data on Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal, President of the Cuban National Medical Association.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

1. BE-2753, 23 Feb 65,- Case No. 237. Identify by name your relative (a very close friend) in Cuba who holds an important position in the Communist Party and/or with the Castro regime or in the Cuban Armed Forces.

Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal.

2. What is the relationship- brother, son, first cousin, etc., if a close friend, how well do you know him, for how long (give sufficient details)?

Professional friends and associates (shared the same medical office) 1949-53.

3. List the position he holds with the castro regime, the Communist Party, and/or the Armed Forces; list his place or employment or assignment. If possible, give the date of approximate date when this individual took this position or office.

President of the National Medical Association.

4. Date and place of birth: Born circa 1920 (POB unknown).

5. What is his address and phone number (give both official or business and residence listings):

Unknown.

6. What is the name of his spouse: (give both patronymic & betronymic)

Unknown.

7. List his children by name, date and place of birth:

I know he has a son, but I don't remember anything else.

8. Identify his father and mother by name (include patronymic and betronymic), date and place of birth, and present address. If deceased, write "deceased" instead of address.

I don't know.

9. Identify his brothers and sisters (give all possible details)

I don't know.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SSCARY

PART II (cont.) (BE-2753, 23 Feb 65, Case No. 237)

10. List any comments or actions taken by the above indiricual
    Indicative of his loyalty of lack of loyalty to the Coannist
    Party and/or the Castro rejime. List any incidents possibly
    indicative of any disarfection or disillusionment with the party
    or the regime.

In mid-1961, we had a discussion about the Soviet Exhibition in
Havana and he praised Soviet medicine, criticized Americans and
expressed himself in favor of all the measures of the regime,
justifying everything the Castro regime and the USSR did.
(Source could not be more specific.)

11. Present political nilitancy: Sympathizer of the regina & Marxism.

12. Fest militancys leftist intellectual.

13. Describe this individual-age, height, color of hair, eyes, weight,
    complexion, list any obvious physics bandicaps, scars, peculicxi-
    ties, distinctive cannariens, etc.

White, dark complexion, slender, 5'9" tall, brown eyes, dark brown
hair. Usually wore dark glasses.

14. What is his educational beceground? List the schools he attended
    and any deprees he has received.

Doctor in Medicine. Havana University graduate (I don't know when.)
No further details known.

15. List any travel this indizidual has made outside Cuba.

I don't know.

16. Docs bs speak any languages other than Spanish? Bame and estimate
    his degree of fivency in caca.

I don't know.

17. Are you in contact with this parsun by noil, telephone, or any
    other way? How often do you communicato?

No.

18. Do you have and may we see some of the letters you have recul.ed
    from hia?

-2-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECR88

Part II (cont.) (-2753, 23 Feb 65, Case No. 237)

19. List his close friends in Cuba, particularly those holding high positions in the Government or the communist Party, and give their positions if you know them.

I don't know.

20. List, with brief background and biozephic data, plus jour personal espesarent, any individual in Cuba sto misht be willing to act as a go-between to contact this person, sach 2o a relative, a close friend, a mistress, a vorzing associate. ecc.

I don't know.

21. If you are not on friendly terns with this individual, list any incidents or individuals in his Life or background which migirt be
    pressize hia. (te all pertinent details.)

I don't know any such incidents.

a. Has he ever been involved in an assassination or assessination attoopi?

Bot to my knowledge.

b. Has he ever cornisted any act of violence auch aa murder?

Bot to my knowledge.

c. Has be ever been inalied in any embezzlements, misuse of riate funds, etc.

Not to my knowledge.

d. Does he have a pistress of mistresses? Can you identify?

Not to my knowledge.

-3-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

TO: C-300.

FROM: C-94.

RR-2753.

23 Feb 65.

SUBJECT: Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal, President of the National
Medical Association. Case No. 237.

DEER INVERS: C-90 and 9-124.

Attached herewith ar file traces on Dr. Leopoldo ARAUJO Bernal,
President of the Cuban National Medical Association.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET

report f ЕГ 2753 FEB 2 3 1965

TJE AMOT-2

FROMS ARCHIVE

UBJECT: File traces requested ons:

ARAUJO Bernal, Dr. Leopoldo

FIL DATA:

Anal, Leopoldo

Laformation on this person was submitted in Report 35-1970, of 15 October 1964 (UFEA-18378, 4 Nov 1964).

REAL DATA:

ARAUJO, Leopoldo

President of the National Medical Association and Communist curing many years.

SOU.CE: equest of file traces Amo T2, 12 Aug 64.

Medical coctor. President of the National Medical Association. ill take part in aeminary on the flood Eanks, to be heic at Havana in the current month, organized by the ministry of ublic Health. It will te held in the Medical association Euilding.

CUOLUCION Newspaper, 5 ep 64, page 2.

Medical coctor. President of the National Ledical Association. Attended a lunch of ered in the restaurant "Rio cristal" at lavana, by the l'inistry of ublic health, as homage to the 247 new Physicians gracuated at the University of Havana.

SCU CA LA TALE Neuspor, 10 ep 64, paro 5.

President of the Hational Medical Association. Attended the act of gradu tion of 25 now coctors in the Theater of the to, ilazana, to mich attended and spoke the Prime Minister.

CURCES ALVOLULICH Newspaper, 11 Sep 64, page 2.

President of the National Medical Association. In the Presidential stand curing the graduation of the 247 new puysicians at the Theater, on the luta of e tember (Caursday).

Cat C Magazine, 15 ep 64, paro 04.

Leader of the National Medical ssociation. Attended the celebration of the conteniai of the International, held at the Medical Association, Havana..

CUOLUCION Newspaper, 22 up 6%, page 3.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

Page 2

FEB 23 1966

Report: EE 2753

ARAUJO Bernal, Jr. Leopoldo

ARAUJO, Leopoldo (continued)

Medical doctor. President of the National Medical Association. Attended to day the inauguration of the First Seminary on Blood Banks and Transfusions, which will last two days, meeting at the Medical Association of Havana.
SOURCE: LA TARDE Newspaper, 24 Sep 64, page 1.

Medical Doctor. In the Presidential stand of an act in homage of the American Medicine, scientist Carlos Finlay, and the day of Revolution, held in the central Military Hospital.
SOURCE: Revolucion, 4 Dec 64, page 2.

President of the National Medical Association.
SOURCE: HOY Newspaper, 4 Dec 64, page 5.

Physician and Surgeon. Attended last night the commemorative acts to celebrate the 67 Anniversary of the foundation of the Hospital "General Calixto Garcia".
SOURCE: EL MUNDO Newspaper, 8 Dec 64, page 8.

President of the National Medical Association. Attended yesterday the act of presentation of Profes or André VOISIN.
SOURCE: EL MUNDO Newspaper, 9 Dec 64, page 2.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# DISPATCH

Operational/

School

ACTION REQUIRED: see para. 5

REFERENCE: JA-17,312, 12 June 1964

1. The following information on Leopoldo Araujo Bernal, Subject of reference, was obtained by AROT, leader of the AROT Group, from an interview with Pia Leonor Borja, who said that the AROT knew Araujo well. Source is a medical doctor.

2. currently residing in Miami as an exile. "Her first husband, Armentes inceps, aka Inocencio Diaz Alcantara, was a member of the Communist Party's central cell in Cuba.

2. 
2. Source reports that Leopoldo Araujo Bernal was born about 1914 in San Diego de los Banos, Pinar del Rio Province, Cuba. He lived at 2312 Calle 41A in Vedado. Source describes him as white, with a pale complexion, slender, about 5'11" tall, straight brown hair cut short with some grey. He is nearsighted and wears glasses. Araujo graduated from the University of Habana School of Medicine in 1937 or 1938 and is a specialist in respiratory diseases. He decided to enter this field after he had tuberculosis.

3. Subject's first wife was Caridad Carvajal, a bank and file Communist. She was a teacher and had been married before to a Spaniard. She was one of the organizers of the Communist Party of Cuba. Araujo had two daughters, Argia Araujo Carvajal, born circa 1945, who is a ballerina in Alicia Alonso's ballet, and also a Communist, and another younger daughter whose name source does not remember. Around 1957 Araujo married again. His second wife was a physical education teacher but source could give no further information about her.

Attachments:

AROT traces on Subj., h/w

Distributions:

2 - CO, Cuba, w/att. - To Outpost
2 - CI/OPS/SA, w/att.
2 - CI/R, w/att.

CS COPY

DATE TYPED: 29 Oct. 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: 054-10374

![Index]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

COMINGTION OF
DISPATCH
JFK-18378
Was active in many Communist, leftist and revolutionary organizations in Cuba. Union also then as a leader of the life day student and belonged to an organization called "Cuban Anti-imperialist, together with arolina France, jose Pacel
Vicaurrets, then in Antonio. Subject collected money to help the communist faction of the working in the history of labor at a later inspection, About 1935.
Purtliera, organizer the "Private Union of Public". ource states that out tart Communist here reason. In Cuhan Communist (Partim cial national Medical Association which the Party had organized in an attempt to seize control of the membership of the National Medical Association. In 1951 subject was closely connected with r, Prezula resident of Venezuela, and had maintain contact with since 1938.
5.. Attach. For your information is a copy of file trote on subject.
6.. reference does not indicate whether the source of the information in reference dispatch, one of the were stationed in idiara or of arrived in the me. If one latter, planning to to come to the would like to be revised of the fate of the referere departure in order to courier.
7. sterilize version of the above information on day passed to the.

![photo of signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# 2-1970

Date: October, 1550.-

FURI: AMAT

FROM: ARCHIVE

SUBJECT: Report about all file traces appearing in this Archive in connection with your request on the following:

ARAUJO Leopoldo

FILE TRACES:

*   ARAUJO Bernal, Leopoldo

Promoter of the "Comité iro-Liberación do Nicaragua" (Committee for tho Liberation of the Republic of Nicaragua).

Ref.: Newspaper "Y" - 7/22/59.-

Doctor.- General Secretary of the Pan-American Medical Congress.-

He requests from the subsidiary associations their sending cablegram to the President of the United States expressing their protest for the air-raid over the City of Havana.

Ref.: Newspaper "" - 10/27/59.

In connection with Justo CAILLO and in the company of José Angel ELST and Jorge QUINTAA he suggests statements supporting tho Covorn.

Ref.: "Bonenia" magazine, part named "Jeccada en Cuta" (Cuban Section:

Edition of the 10th of July, 1930, Page 61.

Loctor.- Cifico imator of "dministración de los Departamenice da Crientación y Eshabilitación de menores (.anagexft of Departments for the Crientation add Berdjustuct of literal. In an article appearing in the magazine "Lokasia" ne explains about the operation of the cadjustment Program for incr .ale Boys at Torrens.-

Ref.: .apasino cia", edition of the 31st day of July, 1950, Pa

Vice-President of the Medical College.acer of the Dalciation on "Cuban Physicians arriving at Santiago de Chile.

Ref.: Newspaper "Y" - edition of 12/10/६०:

Doctor. Director of "Prevención de Bidnestar Social (Prevention of Eocial Colfare).-ber of "?.S.P". (Popular Socialist Party)

Fef.: José PAZ Kovás - January-17, 1961.-

Physician.- Comunist.- Informer of the G-2 (Secret Police)

Ref.: February 25, 1961.-

AMC-1

Arrived to i'axico on Docetor 19/61- Ref.: 001143.- Shoot to. 00102

Fof.: "Acicos" Passenger List.-

Doctor.- Professor of retical Psychology of the University of Havana Salary $409.66.-

Rof. CC-32.-

CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

- Page 2 -

OCT 15 14

SUBJECT: Report about all file traces appearing in this Archive in connection with your request on the following:

ARAUJO Leopoldo

FILE TRACES:

ARAUJO Bernal, Leopoldo (continued)

Leader of the Medical College. Visits "Granjas del Pueblo" (People's Granges).- ref.: Newspaper "Revolución" - January 10, 1962, Page 2.-

Doctor.- Head of the "Departamento de Psicología social del Instituto de Investigaciones de la Actividad Nerviosa Superior" (Department of Social Psychology of the Research Institute oriented to the top level Nervous Activity) which is located at No. 37 L Street, Alturas del Vodado Residential Section.-
Ref.: Newspaper "El Día" - December 9, 1962, Page 3.-

In the presidency of the opening event of the I National Medical Congress held in the "Habana Libre" Hotel on the 17th. day of , 1963.-
Ref.: S/N - Agent - March 12, 1963.-

He was in the presidency of the closing event of the I National Medical Congress held on the 24th. day of the month of February, 1963 in the Chaplin Theater, in which event delivered the closing speech. - Fidel CASTRO
Ref.: S/N - Agent - March 12, 1963.-

Doctor.- Member of the "Instituto de Investigaciones de la Actividad Nerviosa Superior" (Research Institute for the top level nervous activity) and forming part of the Medical Psychology Department of the University of Havana.- Ref.: Newspaper "Hoy" - March 17, 1963 Página 3.-

Doctor.- President of the National Medical College.- He heads a meeting in which it is informed that the goal aimed at in connection with 400 physicians taking part in the events of the 1st. of May, has been surpassed.
Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo", edition of the 24th. of April, 1963, Page .

Doctor.- Communist Professor of the Medical Psychology Faculty of the University of Havana.- Appointed in accordance to paragraph 20/62.- Monthly Salary $409.66.-
Ref.: Report CC-95 - April 26, 1963 (Agent ).-

Doctor.- President of the National Medical College.- He takes part in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

- Page 3 -

OCT 15 1954

ARAUJO Leopoldo

PILL TRACES:

ARAUJO Bernal, Leopoldo (continued)

*   the 1st. of May Parade in the company of the Socialist Physicians.-
    Ref.: Newspaper "Revolución", edition of the 2nd. day of May, 1963, Page 5.-

*   White Race.- Older than 45 years old. Domiciled in Cuba at No. 1010 Forty First Street, Nuevo Vedado Residential Section.- It is understood that at present he is in the United States. He belongs to the medical Profession. He belonged to the Staff of the "Centro Benéfico Jurídico de Trabajadores de Cuba" (a Hospital catering to workers) which Hospital belongs to the "Partido Comunista" (Communist Party). He was on record in the "B.R.A.C." (Bureau for Reprisals again Communist Activities).-
    Ref.: Report No. 66-120 - Agent AMOT-14 - May 7, 1963.-

*   Travels Habana - Mexico on 6/21/63.- Passport 62-631.- Diplomat.. Ref.: "Ambos" Passenger List.-

*   Doctor.- President of the National Medical College and Professor of the Medical School of the University of Havana.-
    Ref.: Newspaper "Hoy" - February 20, 1964.- Page 5.-

*   President of the National Managing Committee of the National Medical College.-
    Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo" - March 3, 1964 - Page 8.-

*   Doctor.- He was in the presidency of an event held at the "Instituto de Ciencias Básicas y Pre-Clínicas 'Victoria de Girón' ('Victoria de Girón (Giron Victory) for Basic and Pre-Medical Sciences), where on Institute
    the 11th. of March a homage was offered to Dr. Enrique CABRERA,
    a Mexican Physician who died in Moscow.-
    Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo" - March 12/964.-

*   Doctor.- President of the National Medical College.- then the remains of the Cuban Physician, Dr. Tomas Romay, were moved from the Colon Cemetery to a special crypt in the "Museo Histórico de Ciencias Médicas" (Medical Sciences History Museum), he took part in a honor guard beside such remains.
    Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo"- March 31st., 1964 - Page 1

*   Doctor:- President of the National Medical College.- Yesterday at night he received a group of visiting Soviet Physicians in the premise of the National medical college. Ref.: Newspaper "Hoy" - April 22, 1964.- Page 5.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

- Page 3 -

OCT 15 1964

## AZAHUJO Leopoldo

**FALL TRACES:**

AZAHUJO Bernal, Leopoldo (continued)

the 1st. of May Parade in the company of the Socialist Physicians.-
Ref.: Newspaper "Revolución", edition of the 2nd. day of May, 1963, Page 5.-

White Race.- older than 45 years old. Domiciled in Cuba at No. 1010 Forty First Street, Nuevo Vedado Residential Section.- It is understood that at present he is in the United States. He belongs to the medical Profession. He belonged to the Staff of the "Centro Benéfico Jurídico de Trabajadores de Cuba" (a Hospital catering to workers) which Hospital belongs to the "Partido Comunista" (Communist Party). He was on record in the "B.U.R.A.C." (Bureau for Reprisals against Communist Activities).-

Ref.: Report No. CC-124 - Agent (AT-14) - May 7, 1963.-

Travels Habana - Mexico on 6/21/63.- Passport 62-631.- Diplomat.-

Doctor.- President of the National Medical College and Professor of the Medical School of the University of Havana.-
Ref.: Newspaper "Hoy" - February 20, 1964.- Page 5.-

President of the National Managing Committee of the National Medical College.-
Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo" - March 3, 1964 - Page 8.-

Doctor.- He was in the presidency of an event held at the "Instituto de Ciencias Básicas y Pre-Clínicas Victoria de Girón" ("Victoria de Girón (Giron Victory) for Basic and Pre-Medical Sciences), where on the 11th. of March a homage was offered to Dr. Enrique CABRERA, a Mexican Physician who died in Moscow.-
Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo" - March 12/964.-

Doctor.- President of the National Medical College.- then the remains of the Cuban Physician, Dr. Tomas Romay, were moved from the Colon Cemetery to a special crypt in the "Museo Histórico de Ciencias Médicas" (Medical Sciences History Museum), he took part in a honor guard beside such remains.
Ref.: Newspaper "El Mundo" - March 31st., 1964 - Page 1

Doctor:- President of the National Medical College.- Yesterday at night he received a group of visiting Soviet Physicians in the premise of the National Medical College. Ref.: Newspaper "Hoy" - April 22, 1964.- Page 5.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

- Page 4 -

OCT.15 ESA

ARAUJO Leo colco

FILE TRACES:

ARAUJO, Leopoldo 5.

President "P.S.E." (could be by Special Substitution) of the National Medical College. He appears signing Resolutions Appointing and/or Dismissing Several Physicians.
Ref.: Official Gazette No. 40 of February 27, 1962, Page 2542.

Departed from Mexico on April 9/1962.- Diplomatic Visa.- Ref.: 1675
Sheet No. 256.-
Ref.: "Airplane" Passenger List.-

As President "P.S.E." (could be by Special Substitution) he signed minutes of the National Medical College.
Ref.: Official Gazette No. 156, Section First, edition of August 14,19-62.

Doctor.- Belonging to the "Instituto de Investigaciones de la Actividad Nerviosa Superior" (Research Institute of the Top Level Nervous Activity) of the University of Havana.
Ref.: "Bohemia" magazine - February 8/1963 - Page 99.-

President "P. S. R." (by substitution determined in the Charter) of the National Medical College.
Ref.: Official Gazette No. 102 - September 20, 1963 - Page 9477.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

REPUBLICA DE CUBA

MINISTERIO DE RELACIONES EXTERIORES

La Habana,
5 do Octubre
do 1964 "ANO DE
LA ECONOMIA"

COLEGIO MEDICO NACIONAL
Pag. 27
Calle 23 No, 201
esq. a N, 3er. piso,
Vedado, La Habana.

Pizarra: 32-9551

Dr. Leopoldo Araujo Bernal, Presidente
C

Dr. Rubén Rodriguez Gavalda, Secretario General
C

Dr. Daniel Alonso Menéndez, Tesorero
C

Sr. Lucas Escalante Bravo, Contador del Comité Ejecutivo
C

Dr. Ramón Granados Navarro, Vice-Presidente
C

Dr. Alfredo Gómez Sanpera, Vice-Secretario
C

Dr. Genaro Suárez Suárez, Vice-Tesorero
C

Comp. Clara Cos, Jefe de Despacho


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

14-00000

15-9-11

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: SANTIAGO

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : DOP, CI, CI/CPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/INT 2, RI/AN, SAS 8, S/C 2.

SECRET 2515522

INFO PACY HAVE CITE S460 544

FRIAR-7 REPORTED THE FO TURKS AND S460 24 JUNE VIA CPA

SUBJ: LEOPOLDO ARAUJO BERMA DPOS 2 JUNE 12 PINAR DEL RIO, CUBA

REF: DIPL PP D4S/531 TO ATTEND PANAMERICAN MEDICAL CONFERENCE;

JOSE ANGEL ESTEVANTE O'LEARY - JAN 11 CUBA (MEDICAL DOCTOR

DIPL OP D52/532 PRESIDENT OF PANAMERICAN MEDICAL DELEGATION;>

EUSEBIO RODRIGUEZ MANZANO DPOS 21 MAR 47 CUBA, EMPLOYEE INRA

SPECIAL PP P-43-547: BARTOLOME SOLIS CLIVA DPOS 8 FEB 13 CUBA,

EMPLOYEE INRA SPECIAL OB-5-53-32. INDEX.

SECRET

MIS: Add to info on all four:

CIT: CUB!

Subj among Cubans who arrived

Santiago, Chile 24 June 63 From Mexico


ROUTING

FINAM

FI/DIST

INDEX

PROCESSED

GROUP
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

A delegation of physicians, presided by the vice president of the national committee of the Academy of Sciences, Jose Toman Sanchez, is departing shortly for Bolivia, where it will take part in the special general assembly of the Pan-American medical confederation in La Paz on 28 and 29 June. The departing members of the delegation are Leopoldo Anjo, the president of the national medical college, Pedro Director of the school of medicine of Havana University, Feliciano Bunto, of the staff of the national medical college, and Jose Angel Justamente, president of the executive committee of the Pan-American medical confederation. Leaving Mexico are the ambassador of the People's Republic of Yugoslavia, Bosko Vidakovic, and the Cuban manager of the Royal Dutch Airlines, Paul Boicke. (Emma PRIMERA LADILLA in Spanish to Latin America 0115 GMT 24 June 1563-2) (OFFICIAL USE ONLY)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

COPAR DATORS--The Cuban doctorsting part in the spiciat cons of the par-American zedical confederation 'a La Paz, Leopoldo Arnu'oreal ari Jose Al Bustacante, vere received by Cailean presidential camidate Salvador Allerde during their brief stopover in Santiago de Chile their way to Bolivia. (Eavara Spanish Americas 1100 GT 26 June 1963--E)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

SUBJECT: ARAUJO Bernal, Leopoldo

SOURCE: Passport 2/62/631

DATE: Nov 62

PROCESSED INTO WH CICS PHOTO FILE 15 Oct 65
as #501

ADDITIONAL COPIES AVAIL. BLK IN W/C CICS ROOM

GH 5510 EXT. 4255.

> [Figure] A grainy portrait of a man with glasses wearing a suit and tie.

SECRET

201-771754


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# SECRET

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RID/201 Section TUBE STATION: DWÓ

FROM: NAME

NOTE: See instructions on reverse side of form. Type or print. Gaste for use of 201 system is contained in CSHB 70-1-1. Chapter 111. Annex B.

1. 
ACTION

SPEC

CANCEL

PHONE

2. EXCLUDE TRUE NAME FROM MACHINE LIST

3. 
RESTRICTED

4. 
PERMANENT CHARGE

YES

NO

YES

NO

5. 201 NO.

124 NO.

6. SOURCE DOCUMENT

DATE

7. NAME

(Last)

(First)

(Middle)

8. 
SEX

9. PHOTO

W

M

F

YES

NO

10. 
NAME VARIATIONS

TYPE

NAME

(Last)

(First)

(Middle)

11. DATE OF BIRTH

12. COUNTRY OF BIRTH

13. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH

14. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE

15. CITIZENSHIP

16. ORGANIZATION OR INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION

17. OCCUPATION (Clear text)

CODE

18. ACTION DESK

CODE

19. SECONDARY DESK

CODE

20. CRYPTONYM

HAND CARRY IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE

21. COMMENTS

22. SIGNATURE

23. 
IDN-

201-

FORM

11-62 831

SECRET

(369)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)