14-00000
104-10295-10001
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

29 August 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Summary of S/W Training and Issuance of Materials.
AGENT : AMLASH/1
PLACE : Paris, France
DATE : 17-22 August 1962
TRAINER: Richard M. Fallucci, TPE C/O.

1. AMLASH/1 was instructed in S/W techniques by the under-
   signed in a Paris Station safehouse on 17 and 18 August, and was
   given an S/d review in the final briefing session held in the hotel
   room of Wallace A. Growery (Madrid Station C/O) on 22 August.
   Instruction was given in the use of carbon writing system No. 15136
   and in the use of liquid developer system No.56638. The "scorch"
   method of development was also demonstrated to A/l as an alternate
   system. A total of five hours was devoted to this instruction.

2. A/1, who was recruited a short time prior to coming to
   Paris, was introduced to the idea of using S/W by the undersigned
   during discussions held in Copenhagen. Although for security
   considerations, he was skeptical at first about using such a means
   of communication, he was without undue effort convinced that any
   productive relationship depended upon his being able to communicate
   with his C/O on a regular basis through the medium of S/N letters
   sent through normal mail channels. It was apparent from his early
   questions that he was unfamiliar with the principles of S/d and clandes-
   tine communications in general. After further talks in Paris with
   Growery on 16 Angust, A/1 was fully prepared to accept the concept
   of S/W communications, and arrangements were made for this instruction
   to begin the following day.

3. The first training session on 17 August lasted a little
   more than two hours, and was devoted to an explanation of the S/
   system of communication, including careful instruction in the
   preparation of a letter containing S/W. A/1 also prepared an S/
   letter of his own under the supervision of the undersigned. He
   seemed to grasp readily the principles of the preparation of an 5/

SCORET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

message and experienced only a little difficulty at first in remember-ing all the steps in sequence necessary for the preparation of an S/W message. He was generally attentive to the instruction given. However, in keeping with his temperment, he was a little impatient during the preparation of the S/W message itself upon the cover letter. At the end of this session, he demonstrated that he remembered the basic steps in a satisfactory manner, particularly considering that it was his first day in S/W instruction.

4. The second period of instruction took place in the same safehouse, lasting about two hours. This session was devoted to a review of the S/N procedures and the preparation by A/l of another practice S/W letter. Following this, A/1 was instructed in the development of S/W messages, using the liquid developer No. 56638 The scorch system of development was also demonstrated. A/1 was impressed by the simplicity of the liquid developer and the immediate reaction which it produced. The undersigned developed one message; then 4/1 was allowed to prepare the developer from its dry pill form and to develop a second practice S/W message for himself. Following the period devoted to S/W development, a general review of S/W communications was held, the basic points apparently being well-fixed in A/l's mind.

5. During the final formal meeting with A/1 on 22 August with Growery and the undersigned participating, the latter gave A/1 a general review of all the 3/6 procedures which were to be used in his contact with KUBARK. He also was provided with the following items:

A. Two sheets of S/W carbon paper (No. 15136)
B. Forty-seven pills of developer ( No. 56638)
C. One tablet of writing paper provided by TSD and known to be compatible with the carbon sheets.
D. 3 No. 2 pencils of French manufacture.
E. One ball-point pen with water-resistant ink.
F. Two accomodation addresses: one in Madrid for regular contact; one in New York City for rapid emergency contact (see attached S/W data sheet).
G. Appropriate indicators (see S/W data sheet)

It is noted that A/1 did not have a secure accomodation address in PBRUMEN to give us at this time. He was told, however, that it was imperative that he provide one for us by S/W letter within two weeks of his return to PERUMEN. This he stated he would do.

6. During the last S/W review, A/1 was shown a photograph of one of his practice messages which he had prepared. He was quite interested in seeing this, which served to illustrate a number of the training points which had been covered during previous instruction.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Generally, A/1 was an interested pupil and it is believed that he will be able to carry out the instructions in a proper manner. He is quite security conscious, a factor which it is believed, will add to his attempts to seek perfection in his S/W correspondence and in the secure storage of his S/W materials when not in use. It is also known that A/1 practiced his S/W techniques in his hotel room after leaving the 22 August meeting. This is known because he had an additional question to ask us at a brief meeting on 23 August.

7. It should also be noted that the TSD technician who developed A/l's practice letters recommends that for best results, all letters from A/1 be subjected to ammonia fuming before immersion in the developer.

Richard M. Fallucci

Attachments:
Agent S/W Record
Form #H-55900


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

24 Aug 62

REPORT OF S/W TRAINING, PARIS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# AGENT S/W RECORD

Date 29 August 1962

1.  Agent Cryptonym: AMLASH/1

2.  S supplies issued to the Agent (date and quantity):
    2 sheets of carbon S/W paper #15136 and 48 pills of developer #56638 both issued on 22 August 1962.

3.  Cover correspondence to the agent will be in Spanish and handritten or typed; from the agent will be printed or typewritten (in Spanish).

4.  Location assigned for placement of S/W text: S/W text will be placed on the face of the cover letter; agent has, however, been instructed to check both sides of letters received for S/W. Letters from the agent on face of cover text.

5.  Accommodation addresses:

    To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be by 15 September 1962 at the latest.)

    Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:

    Regular accommodation address: Senorita Maria Dolores Gomez
    Apartado 1231
    Madrid, Spain

    Rapid/Emergency accommodation address: Mr. Humphre E. Foncavil
    P. O. Box 892
    General Post Office
    NYC 1, N. Y.

    Agents letters to be signed "Ramon".

6.  Re-suppl arrangements:

    If carbons lost: Agent writes cover letter to Madrid address in normal manner. Absence of S/W message indicates loss of carbons and Agent is to expect next letter he receives to be a re-supply of carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

    If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Madrid (in S/W): re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which Agent has been told to locate and report soonest by S/W. Identity of Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Agent through S/W message developed by "scorch" method... see below.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

7. Required indicators:

A. For presence of S/S on letters to the agent: All letters to agent will contain S/S.

B. To indicate loss of writing materials: Carton sheets: Agent writes to Madrid, letter with no S/4. Developer: Agent writes in S/ and so indicates.

C. Indicate carton re-supply by mail: Upon indication of loss of carton sheets (see above), preferably the next letter sent to Agent will be a carton sheet. In any caso agent understands that any cover letter containing the word "fincs" (Spanish for farm) has been written on a carton sheet, which he is then to use Tor S/ correspondence as needed.

8. Optional Indicators: Any letter received by Agent containing the word "hacienda" in the cover letter is understood to indicate that the S/ message contained therein is to be developed by the "scorch" system.

Danger or control indicators:

Letters from Agent: Any word, mark, phrase, etc., after the Spanish word "FDI" at the end of the S/ message indicates agent is under control.

Letters to the Agent: Acknowledgement of Agent's control indicator le to be made by duplicating his "control indicator" in the next S/ message to him.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# AGENT S/W RECORD
Date 29 August 1952

1.  Agent Cryptonym: AMLASH/1

2.  S supplies issued to the Agent (date and quantity):
    2 sheets of carbon S/ paper #15136 and Lô pills of developer
    #56638 both issued on 22 August 1952.

3.  Cover correspondence to the agent will be in Spanish and handwritten or typed: from the agent will be printed or typewritten (in Spanish).

4.  Location assigned for placement of S/ text: S/ text will be placed on the face of the cover letter; agent has, however, been instructed to check both sides of letters received for S/M. Letters from the agent on face of cover text.

5.  Accommodation addresses:
    To be supplied by agent in first S/W letter he sends (this to be by 15 September 1962 at the latest.)

    Accommodation addresses for letters from the agent:

    Regular accommodation address:

    Senorita Maria Dolores Gomez
    Apartado 12318
    Madrid, Spain

    Rapid/Emergency accommodation address:

    Mr. Humphrey R. Boncavil
    P. O. Box 892
    General Post Office
    NYC 1, N. Y.

Agents letters to be signed "Ramon".

6.  Re-suppl arrangements:
    If carbons lost: Agent writes cover letter to Madrid address in normal manner. Absence of S/ message indicates loss of carbons and Agent is to expect next letter he receives to be a re-supply of carbons (in the form of the letter itself).

    If developer lost: Agent so indicates in letter to Madrid (in S/); re-supply will take place through one of the three Dead Drops which Agent has been told to locate and report soonest by S/W. Identity of Drop utilized and date loaded to be conveyed to Agent through S/W message developed by "scorch" method... see below.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

7. Required indicators:

A. For presence of S/4 on letters to the agent: All letters to agent will contain s/4.

B. To indicate loss of writing materiale: Carton sheets: Agent writes to Madrid, letter with no 34. Developer: Agent writes in S/ and so indicates.

C. Indicate carton re-supply by mail: Upon indication of loss of carton sheeta (see above), preferably the next letter sent to Agent will de a carton sheet. In any case agent understanda that any cover letter containing the word "finca" (Spanish for fare: has been written on a carton sheet, which he is then to use for S/ correspondence as needed.

8. Optional indicators: Any letter received by Agent containing the word "hacienda" in the cover letter is understood to indicate that the S/4 message contained therein is to be developed by the "scorch" syaten.

Danger or control indicators:

Letters from Agent: Any word, mark, phrase, etc., after the Sranish word "FIM" at the end of the S/W message indicates agent is under control.

Letters to the Agent: Acknowledgement of Agent's control indicator is to be made by duplicating his "control indicator" in the next S/4 message to him.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)