14-00000
104-10114-10162

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE
COPY.

7 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR:
The Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION: Mr. Sam J. Papich

SUBJECT: COURT FOSTER WOOD
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

Reference is made to a 25 March 1961 and a 6 July 1961 in-
vestigative report on captioned Subject which have previously been furnished to this Agency.

Michael Weimer Stratton, born 21 January 1941, Austin, Texas, who is a current Agency employee, has recently been interviewed concerning his knowledge of Court Foster Wood whom Stratton had known since mutual attendance in high school. Attached is a detailed report of the information furnished by Stratton concerning his knowledge of Wood.

Since [Stratton] personally has sufficient reason to question the activities of Wood and the activities of the associates of Wood, Stratton has been advised to discontinue any further contact with Wood.

It would be appreciated if your Bureau would furnish this Agency any additional information brought to your attention concerning Court Foster Wood and of particular interest would be any information received by your Bureau concerning past association of Court Foster Wood with Michael Weimer Stratton.

The above information is for your use only and should not be disseminated outside your Bureau.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

R. L. Bannerman
Acting Director of Security

Attachment:
As noted

OS/SRS/BLSolie:ect - 16 October 1961

SECRET

![RETURN TO CIA Background ve Only Do Not Reprodu]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

(2 ONTIONS)

The Director
Attachés, Cairo or Damascus
FROM : Chief, Counter Intelligence
SUBJECT: SECURITY -- SEE
Reference is made to the travel to the U.A.R. for security briefing to personnel on the subject project, this Headquarters desires to know the names of all personnel scheduled to visit Cairo and/or Damascus.
2. It is requested this Headquarters be furnished a list of all personnel who were contacted during the briefing in order to determine what persons specifically had access to the knowledge of the identities of the personnel on the subject project.
3. It would be appreciated if your personnel would furnish this agency any additional information brought to your attention concerning Court Foster Food and of particular interest would be any information receive by your personnel concerning said espionization of Court Foster Food with Project Direction.

The above information is for your use only and should not be disseminated outside your Bureau.
FOR THE DIVISION OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:
R. L. Bannerman
Acting Director of Security
Attachment:
As noted
OS/SRS/BLSolie:ect - 16 October 1961
Exemption 3(b)(3) Army
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SUBJECT: Court Foster Wood

RETYPED FROM UNREADABLE COPY.

[Michael Weimer Stratton] has recently advised that Court Foster Wood was a relatively close high school friend of [Stratton] during mutual attendance at George Mason High School, Falls Church, Virginia, during 1957 to 1959. [Stratton] described Wood as an average high school student who had no particular problems with the exception that there were domestic difficulties between the father and mother of Wood.

[Stratton] became acquainted with the parents of Wood and made occasional visits to their home during the above period of time. The father of Wood, Foster Wood, is an attorney who was then living in Falls Church. Some time ago the father and mother of Court Wood split up and Court Wood and father moved into an apartment on Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.

[Stratton] advised that after graduation from high school in June 1959 he lost any close contact with Wood who then started to attend George Mason College, where he seemed to have an interest in philosophy. [Stratton] started to attend a military school and Wood expressed extreme opposition to military schools.

[Stratton] married in 1960, which also helped to move [Stratton] somewhat out of the social circle of Wood. [Stratton] believed that for approximately a year, during 1959 to 1960, he did not actually see Wood but advised that after this period in which he did not see Wood he has had a number of contacts with Wood, many of which occurred during mutual attendance at the University of Virginia Extension School (night school) in early 1961. On one occasion [Stratton] attended a party at the apartment occupied by Wood and father at the invitation of Wood, and on this occasion came into contact with the "new set of friends" of Court Wood, whom [Stratton] described as being "beatnik_types." Girls in attendance at the party, according to [Stratton], appeared to be of the "street pickup" type.

After the above party Wood occasionally telephoned [Stratton] and about Christmas 1960 Wood called and stated that he was going to Cuba under the auspices of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. [Stratton] called on Wood after the return of Wood from Cuba and at that time Wood lauded Castro very highly. The father of Wood was also present and [Stratton] obtained the impression that the father was also in sympathy with Castro. [Stratton] recalled that he again, at a later date, had visited the Wood apartment, this being an occasion when Wood had been visiting somewhere in Falls Church and contacted [Stratton] to ask [Stratton] to take Wood home. On this

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

cientioned Stratton and
s going to Cube under the
ico presect and Stretton lestined

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

cendion Stratton stayed at the food pertrent for prozimatelyjen hour, addylsed it on this ocerzión te observed at propon in the. Theriouchdicted, c. tod, he you

3
taiton Iton leo disc dviset that, woodt the University of Fi igin clasect the shington nd Lac High be. Both Woodd ot trending mutuel 1

3Florerettending the high clases but were not. Ciration fac lied rot Hood hile ttending wight el gors odd shout going to Cub uld be the.

Mic, togethe Coner individuls st the r Baker, le some ot tament to

03

[

[

03

E

![image of fraction] 11/BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

George Mason College with Wood.
Stratton also recalled that at the first
party which he attended to which at the apartment of Wood and a man,
David Lockman was also present. Stratton spoke to Stratton.
Met at George Mason High School, Wood headed to Stratton High School
in June 1951.

Stratton recalled at the time of the mail of Wood in Prussia
But did not know day before when. In the same party. Wood told him that
he moving to Philadelphia to his wife still in George for college
education, but Stratton at the time of the interview did not know whether
Wood has actually moved to Philadelphia.

Wood, during conversation with Stratton in his report to Stratton
that he Wood, did not know if his wife was a Communist but she likely was.
Wood, however, did not

At the time of the above party Stratton understood that Wood was
knowledgeable in conversation about Communist. Stratton did not recall
Stratton and at the time that he

SECRET

![unreadable text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

On, Derived at the head quarters, from that the exclusion of writers whose work is in some manner of the same as the writer.

![illegible text]

That they would be ready to come half way in a compromising spirit, that the V.S.A is in such a favorable position to take advantage of the fact. V.S.A. is not in a position to benefit thereby, under the following conditions:

During the school year 1961, it is time that the fate of the V.S.A. is still a burden. If this is true, but that they have strongly opposed to the V.S.A.

In regard to specific associates of wool, strict control raised that the apartment occupied by acid and varied crazy which the intended at the apartment occupied by acid and varied crazy
actually not but, Made names he did not recall. did recall that the following individuals were present: "Wilt" Mc Donald, now believed living in Washington, D.C. but who had attended George Mason College With wool, and Viers Wierer, who lives in Washington, D. C. and was wounded

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

14-00000

CANNOT BE EVALUATED UNDER EXISTING CRITERIA. PENDING RECEIPT OF SPECIFIC EXPLOITATION, INFORMATION, REQUEST WILL BE RE-EVALUATED AND REPLY FORWARDED. WILL BE ADDRESSED IN GENERAL MESSAGE. DO NOT QUERY.

CANNOT BE EVALUATED UNDER EXISTING CRITERIA. PENDING RECEIPT OF SPECIFIC EXPLOITATION, INFORMATION, REQUEST WILL BE RE-EVALUATED AND REPLY FORWARDED. WILL BE ADDRESSED IN GENERAL MESSAGE. DO NOT QUERY.

![image]

SECRET

6
GR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)