# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
Chief, WE
Chief, WH

FROM:
Acting Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT:
Counter Espionage
Luis TEDESCHI, aka Luis TEDECHI

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO:
201-6145

DATE:
25 August 1961

ACTION REQUIRED:
FYI

REFERENCES:
OIN-18463, 29 May 1961

On receipt of reference, Madrid Station traces were run on the Subject with negative results. Traces were also requested of the QUANTUM service and on 21 August 1961 they informed us that they had no record of the Subject in their files. In this case the QUANTUM service also carried out traces in the QUOTA files for KULARK.

ANTHOLY B. FELDMRAKS

24 August 1961

Distribution:
2 - Buenos Aires
2 - C/WE
2 - C/WH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Buenos Aires
INFO: Chief, RE  Battalion Chief,  IG
Chief, WH

FROM: Chief of Station, Rome

SUBJECI: Counter Espionage
Luis DISCUI (Possibly Luis DISCHI)

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCEIS:

OIM-18463, 29 May 1961

File checks conducted on Subject through Police Liaison are negative.

Distribution:
2-Buenos Aires
✓1-WE/4
1-WH

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WE (Attention AUDESK).

INFO: Chief of Station, Madrid

FROM: Chief of Base, Barcelona

SUBJECT: Counter Espionage
Luis TEDESCHI, possibly Luis TEDECHI

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information

REFERENCE(S): OIRW-18463

There are no base file or QUOTA traces on Subject in Barcelona.

13 June 1961

Distribution:

3 - Headquarters

2 - Madrid

2 - Files

![Signature of Elaine B. Friedwald]
Elaine B. Friedwald


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# DISPATCH

To: Chiefs of Station, Rome, Madrid; CCB, Barcelona

From: Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

Subject: Counter Espionage
Luis TEDESCHI, possibly Luis TEDECHI

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:
See paragraph 3

1. A source who has given highly reliable information in the past, and whom we have no reason to question, has stated that during 1943 one Luis TEDESCHI was either being considered for recruitment by/or was actually working for the RIS. According to the source, he was known to have been active as a member of the Spanish Communist Party. The address used by TEDESCHI during early 1943 was Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

2. The Buenos Aires Station has determined that a Luis TEDESCHI, born 2 February 1918, is listed in local police files as living at El Domador 3150, telephone 58-3717. Further investigation is being conducted there. Unfortunately, Headquarters does not have the date and place of birth of Subject of paragraph 1. The source has indicated that Subject was probably born in Italy and may have been active in the Spanish Civil War 1936-39. This, of course, could explain his involvement in the Spanish Communist Party.

3. It is requested that Rome, Barcelona, and Madrid check station and Base files for any traces of Subject. Liaison and police contacts may be approached for any information available in their files.

4. Please address replies in this matter "Attention KUDESK."

GERALD P. NUTTAND

Distribution:

2 - Rome

1 - Barcelona

1 - Madrid

1 - Buenos Aires

![RECLASSIFIED stamp]

![RI/Files text]

DATE TYPED: 29 May 1961
DATE DISPATCHED: 12 JUN 1961

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OTRM-18463

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-6145

211-289247

OFFICE: WE/X
OFFICER: John D. Walker
ORIGINATING TYPIST: sjs
EXT.: 2528

COORDINATING:

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE | OFFICER'S NAME  |
| ------------- | ---- | --------------- |
| C/WE/4        | 21/5 |                 |
| C/WE/5        | 31/  | Thank of Thiele |
| C/CI/SID      | 1    | Oscar H. Silla  |

RELEASING OFFICER SIGNATURE: John D. Walker


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

DRAFT

7 February 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/Project

SUBJECT: Luis TEDESCHI

1. This office is extremely interested in obtaining all available information on one Luis TEDESCHI, who was reported to be residing at Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires, in the early part of 1943, at which time he allegedly was of interest to the PIS. The attached document refers to a Luis TEDESCHI residing at this address in 1942 and to an individual by the name of TEDESCHI who had resided at Estados Unidos 0366 in 1942. Apparently the information as shown on the attached document was obtained through mail intercepts.

2. We would appreciate having you tell us if you know of any way we might locate the intercepts referred to and possibly any other intercepts directed to TEDESCHI.

BIRCH D. O'NEAL
Chief, CI/SIG

Attachment: 1

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
2 - CI/SIG

CI/SIG/EAGEgerter:jm

DRAFT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

FROM:
Chief, WH

SUBJECT:
Counter Intelligence/Luis TEDEDCHI (Correct spelling believed to be TILESCHI)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:
See Paras. 3 and 4
HABA-9016 of 4 November 1960

1. Headquarters regrets that it has been unable to learn the date and place of birth of the Luis TEDESCHI who, according to a usually reliable source, was being considered for recruitment in 1943 by the FIS, or was actually working for the FIS. As stated in Halk-6515, our source reported that the address used by TEDESCHI during the early part of 1943 was Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires.

2. Collateral information on Luis TEDESCHI of Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires, has been found in a 1942 document which appears to have been based on censorship reports. This document indicates that TEDESCHI's address, as given above, was a cover address for a DE (Union Democratica Espanola) manifesto sent from Cuba. Also one TEDESCHI, Estados Unido 366, Buenos Aires, was given as a cover address in a secret writing message. A copy of the pertinent portions of this document is attached.

3. It is hoped that a unilateral surveillance on the Luis TEDEDCHI living at El Domador 3150, Buenos Aires, if instituted as the station planned, will be fruitful. Headquarters will be extremely interested in any further information on this individual you may be able to develop, as it is possible that he may be linked with Communist and/or RIS activities in Cuba as well as being used locally by the RIS.

4. As..KUDESK is currently handling this case, it is requested that the slug PEDWOOD not be used.

OLIVER G. GALBOND

Attachment: 1

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee, with one attachment

DATE TYPED
6 February 1961

DATE DISPATCHED
10 FEB 1961

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HABW-6669

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
201-289247

OFFICE
CI/SIG

ORIGINATING
TYPIST
jm

EXT
2621

COORDINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL
C.CI/STG

DATE
7 Feb 61

OFFICER'S NAME
Birch D. O'Neil

C.WH/2

RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
Chip WH/C. Ke


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# HABW-6669

## H.E. Secre

FROM : No name, HAVANA. CUBA

TO : MR. LUIS TEDESCHI, PICHINCHA 959, BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINE.

28th July to 14th August 1942. Spanish

SUBJECT : CONDITIONS IN SPAIN, AS SEEN AND RELATED BY COMMUNISTS
AND THEIR RELATIVES VISITING SPAIN

This cover contains Reports Nos. 250-3, 355-3 and 571, compiled from interviews with persons who have recently left Spain, and describing the attitude of the Spanish people to the war and to their government, the extent of German penetration in Spain and of Spanish aid to the Axis, the activities of political parties of the Right and Left in Spain, and general living conditions in the country. This group of reports contains criticisms of both Communist and Falangist sympathizers.

PREVIOUS RECORDS:

TRI.1001/42, TRI.110-3/42,
TRI.24517, and TRI.14201/42 cover groups of reports on the same subject.

S/4555 covers a group of reports on the Spanish political scene, possibly from the same source as the above, which may be VICENTE URIBE, the Communist leader, whose headquarters are in CUBA. See also BIR.14567/42, BIF.14974/42, SER.19252/42.

Addressee, LUIS TEDESCHI, is shown by TRI.15328/42 to be a cover address for U.D.E. (UNION DEMOCRATICA ESPANOLA) Manifesto sent from Cuba. He may also be the TEDESCHI, ESTADOS UNIDOS 3566, who is given as a cover address in the same message in TRI.14725/42 (secret).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WID

INFO Chief, SRD

FROM Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

SUBJECT REDWOOD/IMPROVE
Inis *TEDEDCHI* 201-6145

ACTION REQUIRED
See Paragraph 2

REFERENCES HABT-6515

MICROFILMED
SECRET
FEB 23 1961

DOCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO. HABA-9016

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO 201-6145

DATE 14 November 1960

RE 433 (CHECK ONE)
XX MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

1. In view of the fact that Subject dispatch presented a possible lead to an RIS agent, it was decided to do a unilateral check on *TEDEDCHI* rather than refer the matter to liaison. As a result of investigations undertaken by *BIPATA-1*, the Station learned that:

Luis *TEDEDCHI*

Is listed in the Buenos Aires police files as living at El Donador 3150, with telephone number 58-3717, and has no record of police offences. This individual was born on 2 February 1918.

2. If possible, it is requested that Headquarters attempt to confirm the above date of birth with the source of reference. The Station plans to institute a unilateral surveillance on Subject, and will keep Headquarters informed of pertinent developments.

Carlton G. RECART

Distribution:

3 - Chief, WHD

1 - Chief, SRD

1 - Chrono

1 - File: 201-6145


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO:
Chief of Station, Buenos Aires

FROM:
Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT
General-Counter Espionage
Specific-Luis TEDEDCHI*

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
See Para. 2

1. A source who has given extremely reliable information in the past, has stated that, during 1943, one Luis TEDESCHI was either being considered for recruitment by the RIS or was actually working for the RIS. TEDESCHI was known to have been an active member of the Spanish Communist Party. The address used by TEDESCHI during the early part of 1943 was Fichincha 969, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

2. Our source was unable to provide further information on TEDESCHI and Headquarters' files contain no pertinent identifiable information on him. It is requested that you check all available records including any appropriate local services for any information on TEDESCHI that may be available.

![signature of Oliver G. Galbond]
OLIVER G. GALBOND

![MICROFILMED JAN 6 1961 DOCUMENT MICROFILM SERVICE]

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE TYPED
12 Oct. '60

DATE DISPATCHED
17 OCT 1950

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HEADJARTERS FILE NUMBER
200-6-145-501-289247

OFFICE
CI/SI

OFFICER
AEGEgerter

ORIGINATING
TYPIST
jrm

DIS ROUTING INITIAL

OFFICE SYMBOL
C; CI/SIG

COORDINATING
OFFICERS NAME
Bescheid

EXT
2356

OFFICE SYMBOL
C/WH

DATE
12 Oct. '60

RELEASING
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
Chief, WH/J. C. KING

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

5 October 1960

SUBJECT: Luis TEDESCHI

1. A Source, who has given extremely reliable information in the past, stated that, during 1943, Subject was either being considered for recruitment by the RIS or vas actually working for the RIS.

2. Subject is known to have been an active member of the Spanish Communist Party. The address used by Subject during the ecrly part of 1943 was Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires.

3. It is requested that Latin American, as well as Spanish and Portuguese stations be asked to check available local services for any possible traces on Bubject.

#75


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

REPRODUCTION ROUTING SHEET

TO

Come Egirtu

BRANCH

C/516

ROOM & BLDG.

1408 g

PHONE

2621

REQUEST NO.

21

REQUEST DATE

12 Jan 61

SUBJECT

Jedichi

THESE REPRODUCTIONS ARE OF A PERMANENT QUALITY AND ANY INDIVIDUAL DOCUMENT, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, MAY
BE INCLUDED IN A 201, SUBJECT OR PROJECT FILE. REMAINING MATERIAL MUST BE DESTROYED AS SOON AS THE
IMMEDIATE PURPOSE HAS BEEN SATISFIED. PR

1259


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (use separate sheet) should be use in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This record and Routing Chart should be returned to registry.

FROM:

ACCESS NO.

DATE RECEIVED IN S.A.

| TO  | ROOM NO | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                  |     |
| --- | ------- | ---- | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| 1   |         |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 2   |         |      |                    | One shall provide to filing his receipts of similar info. |     |
| 3   | Timer   |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 4   | Olean   |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 5   |         |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 6   | Spain   |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 7   | FBW     |      | 21/4               | see ofs.                                                  |     |
| 8   |         |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 9   |         |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 10  | Liddy   | R13  |                    | AV                                                        |     |
| 11  |         |      |                    |                                                           |     |
| 12  |         |      |                    | Order - file                                              |     |
| 13  | FBI     |      |                    | ORD - 58.                                                 |     |
| 14  | RLG     | 2212 | 26/4               | 28/4                                                      | CA  |

ORD COMMENTS
MAR 25 1948

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

OFFICE OF ORIGIN
HABANA, CUBA

REPORT MADE AT
28 Jar 48

DATE
15 Jar-10 for 1948

PERIOD COVERED
SERIES NO TXII-344
FILE NO. 80-33
MADE BY Clarence D. Lloyd

SUBJECT
GENERAL Communist Matters

SPECIFIC Spanish Communist Party

REFERENCE THII--258, THII-377, THII-330

SOURCE A - LA files; B-ACC.

STATUS

SYNOPSIS

Information used by Spanish Communist Party in 1943, as reported in Source A files, set forth. Relates to persons ako night se identical with some of those listed, or investigations of whom might lead to identification of individuals listed, in THII--258 also submitted as background material that is being used as a basis for investigations of Spanish Communist Party in Cuba.

ADMINISTRATIVE ADDENDUM:

To date no definite information has been received that would link any of the individuals reported heroin to those arred in reference THII--258. It is realized that this information is quite vague ana is not conclusive in any way, but it is hoped that, by using it as a tesis for our investigations, more concrete details regarding the Party's present a czivities in Cuba, as well as identification of individuals named in reference, can be obtained. Copies of this report are being furnished to our field stations in Lexico and Dusnos Aires inasmuch as addresses used by the Party in 1943 include several in those countries.

EVALUATION : C-3

DISTRIBUTION :
* Wash (3)
* Mexico (1)
* Buenos Aires (1)
* Files (2)
* No other distr.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

Series No. TRI-344
16 March 1948

SUBJECT: Spanish Communist Party

1. Investigations are being conducted/in attempts to identify individuals named in material concerning Spanish Communist Party transmitted to us in J-250/ review of Source A files has revealed only scattered information which is being used as a basis for the investigations and this preliminary data is set forth below:

2. In March 1947 Source A outlined in some detail the Spanish Communist reporting system in the Western Hemisphere. The addresses known to be used by the Party at that time were stated to be as follows:

a. Buenos Aires

Jose Muraro
Costa Rica 4050
Buenos Aires

Emilio Azana
Calle Corrientes 2244
Tercero D
Buenos Aires

Juan Remez
Calle Aicina 1854
Buenos Aires

Roberto Canini
Inclan 4235
Buenos Aires

Jaime/Dimitrovky
Rivadavia 3754 (7° piso)
Buenos Aires

Luis Tamini Saul
Pichincha 569
Buenos Aires

Luis Arata
Estados Unidos 2300
Buenos Aires.

b. Mexico

Andre
Calle Pino 32 Depto 9
Mexico, D.F.

A. Sanchez
Morales 77
Mexico, D.F.

Antonio Perez
Avenida Egido 37
Mexico, D.F.

Antonio Dominguez
Zaragoza C7, Apt. 27
Mexico, D.F.

R. Hernandez
Morales 77
Mexico, D.F.

-1-

SECRET 200-4-5-33


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

Series No. TH-344
March 16, 1948

c. Cuba

Caridad Diaz
Calle Nueva del Pilar 2 altos del café
Habana, Cuba

Manuel Duran
San Lazaro 1003 altos
Habana, Cuba

Juan Jose Nunez
Casa de la Cultura
Paseo del Prado 210 altos
Habana, Cuba

Cesareo Martinez
Luis Estevez y Ferrera
Santos Suarez (bodega)
Habana, Cuba

Alexandro Nunez
Calle Lawton, entro Tejar y Pocito
Habana, Cuba.

d. JACK STRONG
c/o W.L.P.
532 Broadway, 9th flr.
NewYork, New York

Bonifacio Rodriguez
c/o Francisco Janivet
51 Cleveland Square
London W. 2, England.

Dolores Ibarruri
Moscow, Russia.

3. Enclosure to TH-W-258, report on expenses, cites payments to:

a. "Daughter of Ciuanio" - 17 in Mar and Apr; 17 in May.
Source A reported that:

(1) On 21 Sep 45 one EDUARDO VEGA Y GADGET, a Spanish political exile, spoke at a meeting at The Fraternidad de Cultura, Cuban Communist Front organization, leading the success of a convention held 14-16 Sep 45 by the Junta Consultativa PRO REPUBLICA ESPAÑOLA.

(2) On 1 Mar 46 EDUARDO MARTINEZ CONDELES, representing the Association of Cuban ex-combatants of the Spanish Republic, spoke at a demonstration in front of the Spanish Legation in Cuba held as a result of the execution of ten leftist underground workers in Spain.

b. "Son of Esteban" - $11 each month. From Source A it is learned that:

SECRET
201-4-5-55


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

-2-

Series No. T-214
March 16, 1943

(1) YUMAN VEGA (nationality not given) was named Secretary General of the ACCION ESCON CUBANA and known as a prominent member of the Cuban Communist Group.

(2) RITA FORUMAN (nationality not given) was the spouse of (illegible) one of the leaders of the Cuban Communist Party.

a. “YUMURTH” - 70 in Mar; 150 in Mar; Source A reported: In Apr. There is only one document which might vaguely be considered to have any bearing on this item.

(1) SANTIAGO ALVAREZ (aka Santiago (illegible) PINO PRENDES) resided in Cuba in 1910. From that time until 1915 he lived in Santiago de Cuba when he came to Havana to assist Sainz (Pancho) GARCIA GONZALES in work “of an Intelligence nature” for the Spanish Front group, Casa de la Cultura.

(1) FRANCISCO ALVAREZ was acting in 1915 as first Vice President of COMITE HISPANO CUBANO PRO REPUBLICANO ESPANOL in Ciego de Avila, Cuba.

(2) JOAQUIN LORENZO was a sailor on the vessel RIO MAZARIN in 1942 and was acting as a courier to Havana for the Spanish Communist Party. This information, it is stated, was obtained from secret writings between one “PALACIOS” in Buenos Aires and one “GUILLERMO” in Habana.

Source B advises that according to official Cuban records, the vessel RIO MAZARIN of Argentine Registry has arrived at Cuba only once since 1942. That was 19 April 1943. There is no record of the vessel having been here any time in 1942. The crew list of the RIO MAZARIN does not carry the name of Joaquin LORENZO nor any name similar thereto.

“A” - a seaman, who usually makes trips to Cuba, and two comrades who are anti-com. “PANCHO” - Summary Jan-May-47. “CO PANCHO Jan-Feb $315.55.

(1) In March 1947 it was reported by source A that Francisco (see 3c(1))
had traveled in 1942 and 1943 from Cuba to Portugal

-3-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET
Ceries No. TTM-814
March 16, 1948

and returned; that he was an intelligence agent working for the Spanish Communists in Cuba and was in liaison contact with the Soviet Legation here. He was at that time reported to be utiliz- in the services of a carrier named S. L. BO- tween Cuba and France.

One STORY, Cuban, who fought with the Republican army in the Spanish war and was with the American merchant marine during World War II was reported as being anti-Soviet. However, it was pointed out that this individual in supposed to be anti-Soviet. In March 1947 he was em- ployed on a vessel (unnamed) between Philadelphia and Colombia but he also came to Habana often. There is no further report in Source A files con- cerning identification of this individual.

(2) See also 3d(2) above.

E. "Exchanges for Documentation ACTVT17.04 in May.
Source A reports:

(1) FELICIDAD TORRES (probably Cuban though nationality not given) attended the national PSP training school. Was president of Socialist Committee of the first district of Camagüey Cuba.

(2) LUIS ORTIZ (nationality not given) represented JUVENTUD SOCIALISTA MEXICANA in 1945 and was a member of the JUVENTUD SECTION of Casa de la Cultura.

G. "What They Send Us From Cuba On the Organization Thore".
One of the family members is the daughter of a mourned member... HARINERA TRUJILLO who died here.

(1) María GARCIA IZQUIERDO was elected in January 1945 Secretary of Feminine Section of the JUVENTUD COMPATIENTES ESPAÑOLA DE CUBA.

4. Others mentioned in reference TAE-H-253 - MARIANANGELES, ANGELITA, CONCHITA, DULALIO, VICTOR, HUERTA - cannot be identi- fied in any way with persons named in Source A files.

-1-

SECRET
204-5-55


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET
-5-
Series NO. TIN-344
10 Merch 1240

5. In addition to the information outlined above, there have been cleaned some details regarding lesser known Spanish Communist groups and indivisuals. These are not inciuded herein since the meager information available on them--which dates back two-four years--or the mere submission of the names can serve little or no purpose at this time. In view of Mexico reports T-377 and T-336 concernig Carlos DINE Resueno no inquiry regarding him is being made here.

-5-
SECRET
200-1-5-58


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

VIA: Air
(SPECISY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

DISPATCH NO. OTTA-38

CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 12 March 1954

TO : Chief,

FROM : Acting Chief, Trieste Substation

SUBJECT: GENERAL- 11.TEL

SPECIFIC- Summary of Reports Submitted by It. Col William Washington

REF: TRIE 2175

Attached hereto is a summary of reports relative to possible disturbances in Trieste which was prepared by C2/CCST for the rectin described in reference.

Enclosure: 1 G2 report

6 March 1954

Distribution:
3 - Headquarters w/encl
2 - Rome w/encl

![signature]

FORM NO. 51-28 A

CLASSIFICATION

RI COPY

77-7-12-265


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

VIA:
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

DISPATCH NO. OITA-33

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief, ME

FROM: Actin Chief, Trieste Substation

DATE: 12 March 1954

INFO: Senior Rep., Rome

SUBJECT: GENERAL- INTELL

SPECIFIC Summary of Reports Submitted by Lt. Col. William Washington

REF: T.M.: 2175

Attached hereto is a summary of reports relative to possible disturbances in Trieste which was prepared by C2/CRI for the meeting described in reference.

James B. Blevins

Enclosure: 1 C2 report
6 March 1954

Distributions
3 - Headquarters w/encl
2 - Rome w/encl

FORM NO. 51-28 A
MAR. 1949

CLASSIFICATION
COPY

11-7-12-265


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

End to OITA-38
12 Mar 57

1.  TO: Dept. No. 242 dtd 20 Dec 53. (Val -)

To late dan 4th the nation reas of the I will co er slated on a rev victor in any eventall do to trattato ta a orph. Before that I- pos s will con e from the certtern povisage of Italy particularls, from the trieste V. ward. These people will my tried to ta co a atel troval- tortillons. This will live in reaw to do 100 40 41s ot co that with the I will co Clean Ica. Iva that the police ara ncorned with his active in the Let tev torts.

2.  CIC/R/R/N. (1) dtl 2 Dec 54. Val

a a nula vet w as a tople in presently
that a ward capital from cate M office in
K. tre a dy ore of
at ni will collecte a Italy by one of the ream a Cal 1500 alen Arr. to riced of conde with the orrector t, for the word his vindicore in the Vil I t Icaia. In tararial for electri ats.

3.  CIC R pt No. 556-1012 dtd 12 Mar 56. (val -)

The Ie is wihin plans to have thousands of lefflets printed for the Cth and 20th of or. To I leaflets will be nationatte in the distri i will report to I r terlattion to reade the two dates. The leaflets will I petition in to people Trieste, and aro to le distri ut ed those tout the streets of trieste a ay 4 by before the two monticed antis.

4.  CIC R pt No. 556-1416 dtd 15 Jun 56. (Val -)

I. Folyatory, recently returned from , was tonulted al re to to a tllon If correnly also preted ftanctal asst tecco Srca I you r 100001 is presently known. He Has roved to aver a the death of the aiz Trieste ricoris Will d duple the borrb store. He has notified his troop that a decive alos ca to or for 4th with the Sa ostev dele on Trieste and also the rittish und mericus Furteartere in Irinte to. is presently approchins Trieste nrchats and tairsistars ma alarsiatance for his vorbers. It is known that ta certain cater of his croup is in porcanelen of arms and explosivie futoaded to o ured by Atto:

-1-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

5.  (6) did 13 Jan. Val.

A report of 10 Italian, not on 2. Pay to discuss the situ. alva-
tion of trip to M. The den. of the M. would be would
enter for it. submission on 23. 1. The confined to their role in coll
to avoid suspicion on the part of the police. The informer about the
operation of the M. in the report however reports h and
6.  (5) did 22 Jan. Val.

It is a continuation of the M. It was in-
forming to the M. on what (or which) list of students
to concentrate the efforts on by the M.
authority such do submission on that boy.

According to the source, M. and also the youth section of the
Italian M. are for or under the influence of M.
(role). This group, which is considered of anti M., com-
of netion records of 3-2, is now working virtually as under one leader
The source also told that this group is in formed with M
if M. decide is police a, although he has a very type of ability as
possibly.

The source also added that the following action squad leaders not
(ally in town are) appear to discuss their programs. They are quoted to have
said that M. or will suffer on their day of rov ma on ainst the police.

1. M., for in 21 0
2. "N."
3. M. , M.
4. M., M.
5.  , M. Oreste
6. M.
7.  M. did 25 Jan. Val F

The M. intends to use violence in an attempt to kill state all local
Yu oslav contracts. A group member of the M. stated to have said that
the future rallies of the party is to te e e of violence.

8. C/P 5-2555 did 3 Feb. "Val F-3

9.  C.P. noted Italian nationalities, stated that to the best of M.
    knowled e there were no plans on the part of Italian troops to replace it.

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

## DECLARATION

Tribute to win a concentrations on Di. would, no dot certain woman, to hurry up the the law, ov plot victims were dealt 8. rowtor real. ranfol a protocol by only claiming. Lars Clavation, a police attempted to to.

1. CD0-50-25) 0.48. -3

Venters who vow day to end 1. They are plans to have pres-i for disturbances them beat the other other 8. would participate in show in in conjunction with the political police in Rome 8.

Immort, who have written to Trieste because his appearance would .

10. CD13 8-64-25/3 and 11 m. -3

Salvatore, who is in forming the River Mieters' action group, has requested a promotion of somotic place for the mayors of the commis. The R.N.V.D. accepts his resolution. It is believed that permission will be granted to him.

11. 1/0/32. (15) del 23 1971 -3

In a conversation with the Col. the followin information was supplied:

a. "cording, members of the Comitto for the defense of Italianity in Trieste and Istria are discussin; the possibility of patriotic processions to be organized in Trieste on 25 br.

b. Trieste does low not as yet to give a demonstrations on that date, but the 'Comitto on" in favor of sympathetic student pre-
cussions.

c. It was not excluded, during these discussions, that the presence of civilian police be taken as a shelter and will have eventual procursions into disturb ances.

d. RICARDO informed congress that he later to have written on 16 ar to avoid a repetition of the

-2-

CONFIDENTIAL

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

12. INFO re SH-5 and I Feb. Hal-6-9

Italian prelim re recruiting a W/M. States that there is no danger of recr 1 or other activities as he is under the attention of 20 B/R. It is said that it had been planned to use that boy for activities but because that boy works in the car pool director of W/M to go to car pool operations in ca 2er. F was not a

To watch W/M. He said that F will have nothing to do with him.

13. INFO re 1216 and 22 Feb. Hal V-2

Italian prelim re recruiting an attention on death of I. W/M. When he is more involved re other activities, to only part re I. 5. to ask the origin and to have that continue the next recurrent.

Italian prelim re founded by B/R, elevatorn. A certain " W/M",. Tranceres with a spy active monitor with B/R. At present this group is checking:

a. District moon on 20 Bar
b. Word records attack on the Yaslov Preaple: Irsica Headquarters.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

VIA: AIR

DISPATCH NO. STTA-3769

DATE: 5 February 1954

TO: Chief, CE

FROM: Chief of Mission, Trieste

TO: Senior Representative, Rome

SUBJECT: GENERAL- SI/INTEL

SPECIFIC- SI Activities and Plans for 20 March 1954

REF: TRIE 2069; SITA-3697, dated 14 January 1954

1. The following information was obtained from SSn/c/309(5), dated 22 January 1954, a report of the Trieste Security Office (British Field Security Service) made available by COPA. Source is PILSEN (Evaluation is F). Date of information is 19 January 1954.

2. Riccardo GEFTER-WONDRICH presided at an ISI meeting held on Via Rismondo. Approximately thirty persons were present. GEFTER-WONDRICH told the students of "Giovane Italia" that it was inadvisable to demonstrate against the sentences imposed on students who participated in the November riots. Instead, he invited them to concentrate their efforts and attention on preparations for 20 March, promising that he would authorize student demonstrations on that date.

3. It is rumored that a new clandestine organization, composed of approximately 260 youths who are members of the MSI and other parties, is being formed under Bruno MARSETTI (TSO Comment: Bruno MARSETTI is possibly identical with Salvatore MARSETTI.) This organization consists of action squads of twenty to twenty-five men, each squad being under one leader. MARSETTI was expected to return from Rome during the weekend of 23-24 January with arms and funds for this organization. In the opinion of source, these arms and funds are supplied by prominent Masons in Rome and Milan. Source stated that the organization is being formed with the knowledge of GEFTER-WONDRICH, although the latter attempts to evade any responsibility therefor.

4. The action squad leaders meet daily in different locations to discuss progress. At the present time they have no headquarters. Their principal task appears to be the formation of plans for demonstrations on 20 March. They state that 20 March will be their day of revenge against police. The following persons are leaders of action squads:

Constantino DE MARCO

Aurelio D'ALESSIO

Pasquale BUONAIUTO

Orazio BOCOLO

SANNA (fnu), brother of Duilio SANNA Natale


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

Security Information
Secret Control
US Officials Only

STTA-3759
5 February 1954
page 2

5. The following data is from 750/0/309(4), dated 19 January 1954. Source is FILSEN. Date of information is 16 January 1954. The following MSI members met in the Buffet Gallopin, in Piazza Golzoni:

Constantino DE MARCO
Aurelio D'ALESSIO
Pasquale BUCHAIUTO
Orazio FOSCOLO (armed with pistol)
SANNA (fnu) (armed with pistol)
Natale ERA

Subjects discussed FARSETTI's trip to Rome. FARSETTI had left for Rome on 16 January, arriving on 15 January, and had telephoned Trieste that he would "bring back the goods." The meeting also discussed plans for demonstrations on 20 March. It was decided to use acid in small bottles in limited quantities against the police.

6. (Dr. TEDESCHI (fnu), manager of the Ridotto in the Rossetti Theater, keeps MSI arms stored there.

Michael L. Rosemont

Michael L. Rosemont

30 January 1954

Distribution:
3 - Headquarters
2 - Rome

Security Information
Secret Control
US Officials Only

27-7-12-240


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

FROM: London, England
REPORT NO: WAL-28265
NUMBER
OF PAGES: 1
MADE BY: David P. Zeck APPROVED BY: Fever S. Barnes
DISTRIBUTION BY COPY TO:

Washington (1)
Registry (1)

ORIGINATING BROADWAY STATION: R-6
SOURCE CRYPTONYM:
Source Operational Data and Comments

Attention: DYCLAMOR

![INDEX]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

Date of Information July 1952.

Country: ITALY

Subject: The S.T.I.M. Machine Tool Factory, MILAN.

Remarks:

Source: Believed reliable, based on documentary evidence.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# ITALY

## Economic
The S.A.I.M. Machine Tool Factory, I.I.A.F.

1. Location.
   The firm, which designs machinery for construction in other factories, has its technical offices in Viale Monza 66 and its sales department in Via T. Pisoni, 3, Milan.

2. Personalities.
   The manager is (Dr.) COSSETTI, a German and former manager of a German machine tool factory. He is assisted by Ing, WEDESCHI and by other technicians.

3. Production.
   The firm designs and/or produces on a sub-contracting basis the following types of machines:-

Machine tools for the manufacture of micron bearing balls, steel bearing balls, cylindrical roller bearings, conical roller bearings, cages for ball bearings, external and internal rings for ball bearings, sewing needles, bicycle accessories, mount for typewriters, eccentric presses for hot and cold stamping, sandpapering machines, special grinders, oscillating grinders, selectors, rotary rolling mills, control instruments, pneumatic hammers, splining machines, rectifiers, presses, drilling machines, and polishing machines.

4. Patents.
   With the exception of some very small items, the machines designed by the firm are not covered by patents.

5. Destination of Output.
   The firm's products are sold on the home market.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# N.Y.-Si Op. 38

NOT SECRET

FROM: No name, HAVANA, CUBA.

TO: SR. LUIS TEDESC, PICHINCHA 969, BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINE

28th July to 14th August 1942 : Spanish

## OPINION AND CONDITIONS IN SPAIN: REPORTS COMPILED BY COMMUNISTS FROM INTERVIEWS WITH PASSENGERS FROM SPAIN.

This cover contains Reports Nos. 350-3, 355-8 and 371, compiled from interviews with persons who have recently left Spain, and describe the attitude of the Spanish people to the war and to their Government, the extent of German penetration in Spain and of Spanish aid to the Axis, the activities and standing of political parties of the Right and Left in Spain, and general living conditions in the country. This group of reports contains opinions of both Communist and Falangist sympathisers.

## PREVIOUS RECORDS:

TRI.10901/42, TRI.11693/42,
TRI. 24567, and TRI.14201/42 cover groups of reports on the same subject.

S/4555 covers a group of reports on the Spanish political scene, possibly from the same source as the above, which may be VICENTS URIBE, the Communist leader, whose headquarters are in CUBA. See also BER.14567/42, BER.14974/42, BER.19252/42.

Addressee, LUIS TEDESCHI, is shown by TRI.13828/42 to be a cover address for a U.S.E. (UNION DEMOCRATICA ESPANOLA) Manifesto sent from Cuba. He may also be the TEDESCHI, ESTADOS UNIDOS 8566, who is given as a cover address in the s.w message in TRI.14725/42 (secret).

## REPORT No.350

Results of our first conversation with a young man from TORREL VEGA, SANTANDER, about 28 years old. At the beginning of the war he was in the army in MOROCCO and spent the whole war in Franco's army. He comes from a family of small garage-owners. Neither he nor any of his family have belonged to any political party or syndicate although his sympathies have always been on the left.

## SPANISH ATTITUDE TO THE REGIME AND THE WAR.

He says that the immense majority of the Spanish people is against Franco and the Falange, workers, peasants, employees, bourgeois, big and small and a large proportion of the soldiers and the Roquetes. He says that everyone hopes for the victory of the Allies. In it there is a blind trust, especially when the U.S. entered the war as the U.S. and England are the most powerful countries in the world, especially with the assistance of Russia. Only the Falangists desire and plan for the victory of Hitler, even though there are many Falangists too who take a very black view of him. He says the majority of people sympathise with England. They have complete faith in the victory of the Democracies. There are supporters of the USSR, but the immense majority, according to our informant, do not like "communism" and prefer Democracy. He is obviously rather muddled by the Falangist propaganda against the U.S.S.R. He says that the entrance of the U.S.S.R. into the war gave rise to happiness all over the world, although there had been a great deal of confusion before, through the "Treaty of Aid between Russia and Germany." But this confusion disappeared with German aggression against the U.S.S.R. He says that the German defeats on the Russian front raised morale and renewed everyone's confidence in victory. Hitler's admission in his speech of how much they had suffered in Russia in winter, and that they were on the edge of catastrophe, produced great joy among the people. He says that the entry of the U.S. into the War caused a very good impression, and increased people's confidence in victory although Pearl Harbour caused some demoralisation. He says that no one wishes Spain to enter the war, except the Falangists. Franco does not wish it.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

- 2 -

S/4612

himself, and desires neutrality But since these who command are Serrano Suner
and the Palangiats, Franco has no choice but to do what Hitler orders him, and
there is serious danger of war for Spain. He says that the Anglo-Soviet and the
Soviet Azerican pact are known through the Falangist press which has spoken of
them. They made a very good impression on the people. Asked if he knew that
the said pact stipulated that after the victory nations would have freedom to
decide their destinies without foreign interference, he says yes, the press
published it. Acot the Second Front me says that everyone thinks of it, and
is hoping for it to oen if possible throch Spain. That the day they disembark,
all the peole will rise. Asked what the people would do in case of a landing
in France, he said that his orion was that if that happened the Spanish
people would rise, even tote invasion was not on their coasts. The agreement
about the Second Front is also known. He says the people who are most fervent
supporters of the Nazis are Scrrane Suner, Primero de Rivera, and a certain
Count whose name he does not now. He often says that he nows nothing of politics,
because he only read the sports news in the papers and did ot want to know any-
thing about the Falange. He says that there are many preparations for war; they
are making fortifications on the coasts of Galicia and placing a considerable
amount of artillery there. He says that the political force of the Falange and
the syndicates is "artificial": evrione hates them. The eo: le belong to the
syndicate because they can't help it, but they do not pay their dues or take
them seriously. Discontent has even reached the ranks of the Falange. Many
clerks, students, and people w joined it thinking they were going to steal the
music are now very discontentel, and do not pay their dues, and when they are
threatened with being expelled they say that is what they are waiting for, for
the Falange to play at "fisticuffs". There are many officers in the army wo
are not in agreement with the Falange or the idea that Spain is to go to war.
The most molent op ositio:: comes from usipo de Llano and Yague. No one knows
where queipo is going and Yaque is thought to be in exile in the Prov. of Pontevedra.
Both were cashiered, Qusipo for protesting against food leaving for Germany and
Yague because in a speech at Zaragoza, he said - "we do desire a great and
free Spain, but without any Blue Shirts, Red Shirts, or prisoners."

All the sergeants say that they are very discontented, because they earn
5 pts. w ich keeps them very short and o: the soldiers he says-in a word they are
hungry, many years in barracks, and then the danger that they might be sent to
war". He says that they are well-uniformed, just as well as before the war.
They have dismissed the 1941 Draft. He thinks that there was very little sympathy
for the Division Azul and the people laughed at those who volunteered. 40%
were forced to go, others went because they were hungry, and there were volunteers.
He says that survivors came back 1. a state of panic, there was a lack of food
and equipment, several of then mutilated themselves in order to escape fron
this inferno. All say that the Russians are very well-armed and fight with
great courage.

HELP TO THE NAZIS. He says that his opinion is that a great deal of food is
taken to Germany, although he can give no details, but if there is no food and olive
oil in Spain where is it? He says that in Torrelavega the "Fabrica Continental"
is working at high pressure, making tyre covers, while in Spain transport is held
up for want of them.

THE CHURCH. - He says that it is not true that in the Church there are anti-
German and Anti-Falangist groups. The supporters of the Regime are the Falange,
the Germans and the Clergy, in that order. The Church wishes for the triumph
of Germany, in spite of her anti-Catholic policy because they believe that in
that case they will be able to preserve their position of influence. He says
that English and Russian news can be heard alth ugh it is very difficult and is
forbidden although there is no watch or inspection. He says that everybody is
against the Falange and submissione to Germany, including the monarchists and the
rich on whom toe Falangists inpose large fines for racketeering. Many of the
monarchists, bourgeois etc. are on the side of England. Democracy is considered as
a possible substitute for the Regime. A democratic Republic like there was
before the war. A Regime of peace and work. Speaking of the solution of the
present situation, he says that they want a regime of peace and not a revolution.
The he contradicts himself by saying t at it will not be achieved by peaceful
means. He says that this would be the best but that the deaths, the betrayals, the
crimes must be avenged.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# S/1612

The people are very united and there are not the old differences between the parties of the Frente Popular. The policy of National Union is unknown, he has heard no one speak of it.

## DETAILS OF THE PEOPLE'S STRUGGLE

He says that he thinks that secret organisations function, especially in Bilbao and he says particularly "It is a city of brave son". He says that notices painted on the walls are often seen there. He only remembers one "Less Franco, more white bread". Asked if the notices were signed by any party he says no, because it would give away the people who had done it. He says that he knows, because he was told, that in Bilbao there were illegal pamphlets and even a newspaper in circulation, but he does not know their content. He thinks that there must have been a clandestine press, but as he was never an idealist the people who did those things would not trust him, and as he is out of everything he does not know any details". He says he thinks that the people working in Bilbao are nationalists and communists, especially the latter. That a few months ago two Italian submarines, badly damaged by English planes, came into Santander. Two hundred persons were arrested for discussing this, and many people thought that the second front has already begun. He gives no more details. He says that Serrano Suner was the object of an attack in Madrid when he met Arress, and when the latter tried to protect Suner he was seriously wounded and had to undergo a critical operation. Asked if he thought there was sabotage etc., he says no - the disorganisation of the train services is due to all the employees being new and not knowing their business.

## GUERRILLEROS

He says that "El Carinoso" was working in Santander and "The Railwaymen" too; that "El Carinoso" came from Miercoles and had his headquarters in Santander. That he was recently killed through quarrels and imbroglios caused by his girlfriend who was from the J.C. and had another lover, and it was he who was arrested at the same time as El Carinoso. It was he who informed against them all. Many people love the guerilleros, although there are many people to help them through fear, as for example a relation of his from whom they took. It is only slightly, but in general the Guerilleros behave excellently. "El Carinoso" was once in Barcelona, where he went in a cab to get his teeth fixed. El Carinoso was not a politician but took to the mountains in order to avenge the death of his cousin who was assassinated by the Falange. That they often, like the guerilleros of Asturias, disguised themselves as Civil Guard, went down to the villages, and arrested the Falarists. But where there are most guerilleros, and the most active, is in Asturias. Six months ago, about three hundred guerilleros were ready to embark on the coast in order to leave Spain. But there was a quarrel and a terrific fight between these guerilleros and the forces of authority, with many dead, and after that they retreated to the mountains. He says that the politicians who are most popular are Prieto and Asana. Some speeches of Prieto's have been circulated through Bilbao, but he does not know what they say. There is also in circulation an article, reproduced from an English paper, reprinted by an employee in the Real Comp. Asturiana, de Inss. Republicana. The article refers to the powers and resources of the Allies and their chances of victory. He says he does not know of any activity of the communists, that this is obviously the activity of other people who are not communists; that for example the man who reprinted the article and those who read it were all on the Republican Left, and if there is any communist activity it is so camouflaged that no one knows who is the author. He says that during the crossing they were detained by the English in Bermuda and in Baltimore by the Americans. That the English made a short examination, they did not interrogate them in front of everybody and left them the letters they carried. In Baltimore they were interrogated one by one and were asked about fortifications, food, if they sent it to Germany, etc. When our informant said he had been in Franco's army up to the war they asked him why he did not desert to the Republican army.

## SOLIDARITY

He says there is no organisation for solidarity, that this only exists between groups of friends who have a relation or acquaintance in prison. They are not allowed to visit the prisoners more than once a week. He says that the killing goes on, and that in Vog, a few days before he left, a lieutenant of the Civil Guard was shot for having gone for a walk along "at his own risk".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

REPORT No.351

MARIA RODRIGUEZ, about 29 years old. Comes from a comfortably-off peasant family in the Province of Orense. She is very sluggish and at evary question repeats that she does not know and that woman do not understand many thin s. She had only a little more than an hour to spare as she was busy in the evening and had to leave for the interior in the morning.

WAR - She says that she was surprised when she arrived in Havana as she thinks there is more enthusiasm in Sain than here ani acre confidence in an American victory. The peasants alike everyone else would like the "American to win, even tilose on the Right are sure the Germans will lose. She cannot explain the nature of Franco's assistance to Hitler, she says only luat as it was the Germans wr:o won, Spain owes them more than it has". She cannot be explicit, either, about the dangers of war, but she says that Franco's soldiers, the young men in general, and as a concrete instance a anther of hers ma servei five joins in Franco's army, aastat they mil go up into the mountain and shoot before going again to the war. About the Division Azul she knows on that when it was first formed a volunteer left from her district. He was an outlaw who had committed crimes and she says that he went through fear of the consequences. The people do not like the alue Division. They were not asked for anything for the #volunteers".

FUTURE PROSPECTS - She insists that there is great confidence that it will soon change. So much so that a Republican who was hidden for years and afterwards discovered told her to tell her husband Do not leave beacuse things will soon change The village has a hundred inhabitants, and she says that they all hope it will change; but from what we can gather this confidence is based entirely on an Allied victory. She says that if the English opened a second front in Spain the people would revolt, but she says she has heard no ci inions on this point. The peole speak without fear. She relates that the Falangists tried to take a pistol from her father and that he hid it. They threatened him, they took him in a car telling καλαχάaxsiuk him that they were going to knock his head off, but the old manremained firm, telling them to do what they liked. They did not do anything to him nor dia they get the pisici. As an example of solidarity against the Falange the old man said he had sold the pistol to a man who was going to America. They told him to prove it, the old brought as witnesses two peasants who lived more than a league away, without having agreed on a story first, but being quite convinced that the peasants when they saw the Falangists, if only for the sake of contradicting them, would say that what he said was true. A little later they sent him a notice for a Falangist meeting and he refused to go. She does not know if the other peasants did.

ARMY She knows t. at a short time ago they dismissed the 36 (1936) Draft. Her husband was on service in Orense and deserted and went to Cuba. Immediately the Captain of the Company and a lieutenant went to his house to make inquiries. His brother told them "In his circumstances I do not know what I would have done", and the captain and the lieutenant went away saying "He is right".

PEASANTS. - As we have already said, she belongs to a family which is com fortably off, they have several labourers in their employ. She says that the day la bourers, and the farmer are equallygainst the Government and the Germans. To illustrate the situation she says that the daily wage is 20 pts. without food, and 6-with-food. They-all-prefer-the 5 and food, because otherwise they have nothing to eat. The peasants are very discontented, and show it openly to the Falangist officials when they come to inspect the harvest and when they Bir the prices, saying "They have no right to do it, it is an abuse", but it appears that it goes no further then this. They have not requisitioned anything but theyforce them to sell to the official buyers who issue permits to authorised buyers. These individuals take the produce to large shops and amass recal fortunes. A quintal of potatoes, they have to sell at 50 pts. and they are sold afterwards by the dealers at the standard rate of four or ive ptas the kilo, that is to say at a 800% profit, to private people who require them. And if the peasants take their produce to the market they have to sell it at the standard rate to the dealers. No peasant takes any rye to the market, they prefer to run the risk of selling it to private peo le. This is the only way in which they can


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# 5

S/4612

get other products. They have imposed a new tax; they have to pay 15 centimes for each vinestock. They have given up the "one-dish meal" and they are not forced to contribute to Auxilio Social. She says that the Government does not know what is going on in the country. They distribute the sulphate, not according to the number of vineyards, not even according to the number of inhabitants, so that her district which is wine country, gets less sulphate than the next one and produces very little wine, although it has more inhabitants. A kilo of sulphate is worth 39 ptas. - before it was worth 50 centimes. She says that they were taking a few things to America and they made them pay in Pielato, in Orense, and in Vigo, and if they had passed through more provinces they would have had to pay again.

REPORT No.352

Information volunteered by three Galician peasants, not members of political parties. They remained throughout the war in Franquist territory, although only one of them fought in the army. Very backward politically, anti-franquist, and more anti-Falangist. With the exception of one who was in Asturias as a soldier, the others never left their village which is a hamlet in Galicia.

SPANISH ATTITUDE TO THE WAR AGAINST HITLER. - The majority of the Spanish people with the exception of the very rich and the Falangists are against Franco and the Falange. They explain that Falangists see what is coming to them through the crimes they have committed, and they are the people who really wish for a German victory, with the object of saving their skins, and the money they have stolen from the people. In Spain, in general, no one wants the war, since they are exhausted, according to our informants, except for the Falangists. It is said that Franco is a partisan of neutrality, and daily visits the British Ambassador at his private residence and has interviews with him. In spite of this they say there is a danger of Spain being rushed into the war against her will, because in Spain the Germans are the masters. All the world believes that the Allies will be the victors except the Falange. Before the attack on Russia many people were demoralised by the German advances and began to *think them invincible*. When Russia entered the war, enthusiasm and confidence in Hitler's defeat increased enormously, but that was especially when the Russian victories began. They say: I do not know what would have happened to us but for Russia; the Nazis would be masters of the world. They also say that the Nazi army will not stand another winter of war, that they have suffered such losses that the next Russian winter offensive will defeat them although there is no talk of a Second Front. They are sure that the Democracies will win the war. They admire the resistance of the U.S.S.R. They say that Germany has already lost the war as a consequence of the losses suffered in Russia. The entrance of the U.S. into the war contributed to increase the already existing confidence in victory. They do not know of the Anglo-Soviet and Soviet-American agreements, nor the agreement about the second front. One of our informants asked us what "O Hitler in 1942" meant and when we told him he said that they also said it in Spain, because in order to achieve it it was necessary to open a second front. They think that if there was a landing in France the people would rise. They also say that there are rumours that they land in Galicia and in this case the whole of Galicia would revolt to help the Allies. The same thing would happen in any part of Spain.

The "DIVISION AZUL" is hated by the majority of the people. They say that the majority have been forced to volunteer, and explain how the recruiting is done. Anyone who does-not-want-to-go-and fight Communism, take a step forward. Some enlisted because of the desperate situation they were in. Some enlisted, too, because they were stalwart Falangists. When the recruits left the province a great many people went to see them off, calling them "sons of bitches" and insulting their mothers. Then one contingent of "Volunteers" came back from the Russian front at Irun they had to leave the train because the people were stoning them. Many people came back maimed and with frostbite. They tell terrible stories about the Germans and the horrors of the war. They say the Russians are very brave and fight with great courage. That they have large supplies of ammunition, and that things on the Russian front are not like the papers said they were. They said that the food on the Russian front was very scarce and bad. It was sent to them from Spain and they suffered many hardships. They all wished to return to Spain as soon as possible; they repented of having enlisted.

*Ogre hour for Hitler in 1942*.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# 6

# HELP GIVEN BY THE FRANQUIST REGIME A'D THE FALANGE TO HITLER.

Now and then they send reinforcements to the Division Azul, in groups of a thousand or one thousand five hundred. They say that in order to replace the casualties and the those who return crippled. Even the Falangists themselves say the Russian front is a very serious matter. Those who are recruited to replace losses in Russia are recruited by force, by the process already mentioned. All airmen have to serve some months on the Eastern Front as "training". They say that lately they were training about 150 pilots to send then to Russia. The war factories are workingat high pressure. The Germans are directing the erection" of an aerodrome in the province of Lugo. In Gal cia very few Germans are to be seen. Military instruction is obligatory for boys and youths in the Frente de la Juventud". They also train youths from 15 onwards to serve in aviation. A friend of the informants told them that there passed daly through a city in the North fifty card loaded wit war material in the direction of the French frontier. German submarines refuel at redendeia and Vigo. He says that English seroplanes often make reconnaissance flights over the heroours of Galicia. They aescribe Serrano Suner as the most subservient to the Nazis and in general to the Falangists who have crimes behind them or who have become rich through roubing the peo: le.

Those who go to work in Germany are those workers who have nowork, or even if they have any live in the greatest poverty. They believe that by coing to Germany they will be able to solve their economic situation and that of their families. The groups aant are not very large, according to our informants, at least in Galicia. This is understandable because the Germans preier specialists. According to our informants, three workmen came back from Germany who say that in Germany the situation is terrible. They hardly eat, there is great poverty. They have the impression that Germany will not resist long in consequence of the situation there is in the country. They also say that a roup of Spanish workmen were thrown out of the country because they caused trouble".

# FRICTION BETWEEN THE RULING CLASSES

He does not know of any dissension in the army except the case of Yague and Queipo, and gives data which is already kn.m. The soldiers in general are against the entry of Spain into the war.... They live in very bad conditions, badly fed, badly clothed and ill-reated by the officers, especially by the recently recruited Falanists. Thay all wish to be demobi ised as soon as possible. They have demobilised the '39 fraft. By their conversation we observe that the soldiers from the "national" and the "Red" zones receive different treatment. In Galicia there are rany soldiers from Cataluna who have already spent several years in the army. They do not make it difficult for youths of military age to leave Sain; they cited their own cases. One of them is 18, the other 24 years old.

# THE PEOPLE'S PAST STANCE TO THE WAR AND THE FRANQUIST REGIME

They say that there is no resistance there at all, because no one can act, and passivity is the opinion and state of and of the people. When we insist they say there have been various tran smashes and some derailments which they think were due to sabotage as well as to the defective material. Everybody knows the British and Soviet war communiques and they are discussed in private conversation. Some people take them down in shorthand and later circulate them. He says that in Vigo there is a secret transmitting station, but it was discovered by the police and all tiose connected with it shot. They were said to belong to the republican Left ("Isquierda Republicans) and among those shot there was one doctor and other intellectuals. He does not know any more details. Wezen complain loudyin queues of the shortage of foodstuffs. He knows because the rumour went round there that Prieto nade a speech in the White House before Roosevelt, and that Roosevelt embraced him saying that the Americas were behind the Spaniards. This speech too is circolating in clandestine copies, cut he never could see one. He says that there is no organised political activity because this is impossible. He tells several jokes which are going the rounds, and quotes this ons: "Recently they made a film called "We Thieves are Hanest Men". Beneath the announcement of this film in Vigo, someone wrote "The Caudillo's Own Fords". Es says the press give most space to the English Far com uniques and the U.S. war news bulletins.

# WHAT IS THE ATTITUDE OF THE PEOPLE TOWARDS NATI NAL UNION.

Talking of Unity they say textually There, there are no parties, there are only anti-franquista, and all the differences between sections of the Popular Front have disappeared.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# 8/4612

Lister is known and has a following in Galicia. The politicians with most prestige are Prieto and Asana and Negrin, although Negrin is the most hated by the Falangists".

## FUTURE PROSPECTS.

He thinks of the Republic as the Regime to substitute for Fascism, but without a revolution, and he immediately adds that the Republic will come because when the Germans are at their weakest the whole people will revolt and avenge the crimes of the Falangists. The people's blood rises when thay see those who assassinated their relations dressed up in blue shirts. The Palange consists only of professional assassins and robbers. Those who wear the shirt can be recognised by their faces. Those who joined the Falange at first now do not want to know anything about it, and do not want anyone to wear the shirt. There is friction between Requetes and Falangiste. The people hate the Requetes less than the Falangists. They say that the schools teach only militarism and religion. There are many little boys who can hardly read, but who can speak of military operations with maps, artillery and aviation. A teacher who was dismissed and came back to his post, told our informants that the Ministry constantly sent them boks of military tactics, so that they could teach them to the children. The summer camps for children consist of sanding boys to camp and teashing them drill.

## GENERAL SITUATION OF THE PEOPLE.

They spoke of the terrible poverty endured by the people, and the high price of food; wages have hardly been raised in comparison with those paid under the Republic. The Committees of Supply get hold of agricultural products and only leave a small quantity per person for the whole year's supply. Already in their village the Falange had listed the crop although they had not yet requisitioned it, which they had already done in other parte of Galicia. Falangists speculate in foodstuffs, selling them at high prices and so get rich. He says that in Figo a large quantity of rice went bad and had to be thrown into the sea because they would not sell it to the people at lower prices. The rationing is quite inadequate. They were a whole year without seeing olive oil. Maturally on the Black Market it could be bought at 50 pts and more. In a year they only had bread twice. A very small meal in a restaurant costs 16 pts. Two courses and dessert 25 pts. One of them was charged 75 pts. for eating and sleeping in a pension in Vigo one day. A pair of shoes costs 25 pts., a poor suit 500, a dosen eggs 18 or more pts. The people hate the Committees of Supply used by the Falangists to make themselves rich. They say that there is the greatest immorality in all official organisations and everyons steals.

In the prisons there are still many people. They treat the prisoners very bedly. In the prison of Oviedo, which has a capacity for 600 there are more than 5.500 prisoners. There are batallions of forced labour (workers they call them); they grant some people conditional liberty but they send them to districts where they know no one and where they die of hunger.

Generally these three young men have great confidence in the victory over Hitler, and say Germany may break up this very year.

## REPORT No, 355

Information volunteered by an ex-Consular official of the Cuban Government in Spain, who arrived on the "Marques de Comillas" on the 25 th of July 1942. The subject is a person of quite good economic position. He is the sons of Spaniards and owns some properties in Asturias. He went as Consul to after Fram.cofs_troops_had taken penesssion of it. A man of moderate views, politically of the persuasion that was regnant there at the moment, he honestly believed, doubtless as a result of Falangist propaganda in America, that Franquist Spain was a paradise". Later he had the opportunity of experiencing what Franqui sa represented, and still represents for Spain, and owing to his honourable behaviour as Consul he was often insulted and was even threatened with expulsion. He was closely connected with of icials of the Fascist Regine and with Falangists in high positions. His term of office, to use his ow expression, was more sufessful through his friends than owing to his position.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# 8/4612

SITUATION OF THE FRANQUIST REGIME - 80% of the Spanish people are against the Franquist regime. He says that to assess accurately the solution desired by this ninety percent is very difficult. Some wish, specifically, for the restoration of the Republic, but he maintains that what everyone is longing for is a change in the Regime, something to relieve the really chaotic situation in which the Spanish people find themselves. (He did not know life under the Republic, and therefore when he talked with people they always underlined the enormous difference there was between that life and life under the present regime). The Falangist unity may boast of is a myth. Division in the Franquist Camp grows daily. The Falangists write happens in the streets and so do the Requetes, but their slogans are contradictory. The Falangists accuse the rest - of being sure and traitors to the doctrine of the Falange. For example, he talked to a Falangist lieutenant who had come from Cuba to fight at Franco's side - in the cafe El Cate Negro in Madrid, a few days before embarking. He seemed to be ashamed of the present situation in Spain. He excused himself by repeating the Falangist tenet that the Falange had been betrayed. (This must refer to the Monarchists, Requetes, and other reactionaries). The Falangists are aware of the present situation in Spain. Perhaps that is the reason why they are seeking a solution which will preserve their class privileges. In his own phrase - the Franquist regime hangs from a very thin thread, which must snap very soon. (Perhaps this is not only the view of our informant, but also of some military and civil leaders with whom he was closely connected). For this reason, he says, they have tried to give the impression of a change, taking advantage of the Camara Corporativa, and, if it is true, with the restoration of a Falangist-Monarchy.

ON THE MONARCHY - There is, he says, no public activity with this goal. There does not exist what we might-call psychological receptivity for this measure; but undoubtedly negotiations in this direction are being carried on by high officials of the Franquist Regime. He was in Madrid on the 22 - 25 June 1942, at the time of the visit of Don Juan. His visit was not given any publicity, but there were widespread police precautions. The streets nearest to the palace were closed to the public and a strict watch was kept. There were also arrests of suspicious persons, those who had been in prison etc. But the press gave no sign. The presence of Don Juan was public property. The people seemed completely indifferent. The monarchists displayed no activity either. Perhaps, he added, they took precautionary measures with some people characterised by their adhesion to the Monarchy. His impression is that if the monarchy were restored in Spain it would be in alliance with the Falangists, but the people would still have the impression that the situation had changed. He maintained that there would be the semblance of a coup d'etat, apparently directed against the Falange, but Franco would remain head of the army. If so, things would, fundamentally, remain here as they are; that is, the Spanish State would still be entirely subordinated to Hitler, and without changing the policy of "partiality" they now maintain, to one of "neutrality" in the war. They would take this step, in his opinion, only in the last resort, if faced with a second front in Europe, and on the approach of Hitler's defeat, which would, naturally have an immediate repercussion on the countries subject to the Nazis in Europe.

ON THE COMPLETE SUBSERVIENCY OF THE FRANQUIST REGIME TO HITLER. - In Spain the Falangists do not speak of their position of "Neutrality" in the war but of "partiality". This is their attempt to justify the help they give to the Axis. There are German submarine refuelling stations in Vigo, Redondela, and on the Galician coast. This is public property, but every now and then the press publishes a complete denial that Axis submarines refuel in Spain. These denials are very frequent but they do not give much proof. Those who can see tanker-launches carrying on this work laugh at these ridiculous denials. Also on more than one occasion German submarines have been repaired in Spanish dockyards. In Galicia it is quite impossible to get a pot of jam. All the production, which is enormous, goes to the Germans. There are places on the frontier, through which trains pass with produce for Hitler. There are fortifications and artillery on the coasts of Galicia, where the Germans are in command. There are also new aerodromes, some already finished and some under construction by German technicians. They fear an Allied invasion in Galicia. Hitler is assisted not only with food and primary materials, but also with men.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

- 9 -

S/4512

There is continuous propaganda for the sanding of volunteers as workers to Germany. Unwilling contingents of soldiers have left for the Blue Division.

## THE DIVISION AZUL

was a Falangist manoeuvre to give political importance to some Falangist leaders. The manoeuvre turned out very badly. This Division is the most unpopular innovation of the Falange. Our informant talked with 11 survivors of the division, who had returned from the Russian front on account of their wounds. One of them was 18 when he left as a volunteer, without the consent of his family. He asked if he would return to the front again and he answered categorically "My eyes have been opened. I will rever return". They all speak of the bad food they are given mainly vitamin pills and pots of Jam. They speak of the courage and fighting spirit of the Russian aray, but above all of the contempt with which the Ogrmans treated them. They regarded them as inferior beings and they also said that when they said compliments to the German women, a Spanish custom, they answered them disdainfully as if they despised them. There were cases of self-cutilation in the ranks of the Blue Division. At any rate their panic was obvious, and they refused to return. Everybody speaks ill of the Division Asul.

Its commander Minos (rande, is the most despised of scldiers. Countless jokes about this division circulate in Spain. Our informant knows several, but cites the following as an example which came from the Club Benevente Arniches etc. El Gato Negros in Madrid. Minos Grande sent a telegram to the political address of the Blue Division at the front - this was the address: 1.3.. URSS M.G. The telegram arrived and no ons could decipher it, but finally a soldier said - This is quite clear", and read the following words "We were all deceived. Serrano Suner is the only one responsible. Many thanks". (Tuimos enganados todos. Unico responsable S.Suner. Eachas gracias").

## ON THE DANGER OF WAR FOR SPAIN AT HITLER'S SIDE

His izpression is that Spain will continue to assist Hitler as she is doing now but that she will not enter the war. Some of the Generals are in disagreement with the present policy - among them Varela, Aranda, Yagus, Queipo etc. Among the soldiers the feeling against the Fascist Regime is very marked. They complain of bad food, treatment, clothes.... too much time spent on marches etc. Queipo, on his returní ron Italy was rude to Serrano Suner and struck him for which he was sant back to Italy. General Aranda spent a month at Gijon and talked to our informant. They had an interview. Our informant has a real addration for Aranda, who, he says, is a gentleman. He says that Aranda appeared to be Igftist. Among his remarks he remembers the following words. We Spaniards are robbers. We are, and we have been for some time. If you walk through the Castellana of Madrid you will see the susptuous palaces owned by Wexler (7) and Pramo de Rivera, etc. built wi with the blood of the Cuban people and the poor Spaniards who went to defend the Spanish colonies. The colords were lost but the military leaders, whose duty it was to defend them, enriched themselves. How it is the same thing over again. We made a revolution in order to bring progress to Spain but we have spilt blood in torrents uselessly. The result was not worth the expense of so much blood and so much repression".

Da his conversation, although he said nothing against the Germans, he showed contempt for the Falangists who are enriching themselves; he showed particular fear of the treatment meted out to the soldiers in barracks. His impression is that it was a result of the seriousness of the situation through which the Franquist regime was passing and fear of what the outcome might be. He said nothing about the state of the war, and whether he was a partisan of England. In the conversation he had with the General It is possible that there was another aspect, which through discretion he did not repeat.

## HUNGER SITUATION

The situation has become noticeably worse during the last months. For several months already the rationing has been practically ml. The rich buy everything on the Black Market. Our informant, with his wife and five children spent from 9.600 to 10.000 a month on food alone. He says that during the year his expenditure on food - he does not drink nor smoke wa 120,000 pesetas. Of course he had a special clothes budget - 600 pesetas for a suit and 180 to 200 for a pair of shoes. When asked how the workers live who earr 10 to 15 pts. salary or perhaps less, he says very badly. They do not eat, and adds that besides they cannot earn more. I, the workers and the people in general had a greater purchasing power, life wuld be impossible in Spain as they


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

would also buy on the Black Market and no one would eat. Therefore the privileged classes can eat, and they can only do it if they have a fortune. They accuse the Falangist leaders and the Government of racketeering on the Black Marketes. Dimense fortunes have been made in a night. They go tobed poor and wake up millionairess This is the only explanation of the fact that ons is allowed two packets of tobacco at 0.90 per person per week, and in the Compania arrenditaria de Tobacos, which is a state monopoly, ons person can buy from 100 to 10,000 packets of the 0.90 at 7.50 a packet. He also relates the following instance. Petrol is scarce in Spain. A litre costs 15. pts. Cara frequently stop in the streets for lack of it. He cites a case which happened in the street of Gijon. A distinguished military personage had no petrol He saw a tank-convoy of Campsa pass and asked the chauffeur for a few litres, and when he refused, he ordered them to give it to him, as a superior officer. The chauffeur refused again, and in a panic explained that he could not do it because he was not carrying petrol but olive oil, without being able to explain which military leader or leaders it was destined for, although he knew it was to be sold/contraband.

### SITUATION OF THE PRISONERS

He cannot calculate the number of prisoners there are actually at the moment although he asserts that it is at any rate enormous. by reason of his position he has vis ted prisons and fortresses, and is terrified at the terrible treatment in the "Comisarias Civil Guard barracks etc. On more than one occasion he says he has saved more than one Republican frono rtain death. The prison that he knows is the Cote at Oljon. It is at the moment completely full. The treateent is inhuman. They do not give the prisoners a call number but allocate them only a square meter for sleeping, standing sto. That is to say that when a prisoner arrives he is given a metre of ground. Nor do they give them a mess. Lately they agreed to give them a peseta dály for maintenance. Ee does not understand why there are not mere deaths, as with one peseta a day in the prison canteen one can only buy bread. They took the miners who were prisoners to camps so that they could work in the mines. They gave them 50 s. day wages for bachelors and a peseta for a wife and 50 cts. for each child, to the married ones. They keep then working ten and twelve hours daily in the mine. The number of shootings has diminished. It is imputed to the fact that "almost all must have been tried,"

### THE CLERCY

He says that the clergy have never intervened in politics from the pulpit as much as they do now, sometimes inveighing against the Franquist Government, and at other times, naturally, defending the policy of the Falange. Humbers of the priests and monks continually exound their view on the political regine and the points on which they differ from it. As a characteristic example he relates that about two months ago in Gijon there was a house used provisionally as the Church of San Jose, which was destroyed during the war. A priest, professor at Salamanca, gave five lectures. In these lectures he spoke almost exclusively on political questions, and attacked the Franquist Government for their method of supply and distributing the foodstuffs among the people, saying that what was wanted was more rationing and less Franquist regulations. He also advocated the necessity of a pardon for all condemned people and other things that our informant does not remember. 500 people went to the first lecture, but in the second one, when they heard what the subject was, was attended by literally all Of jon.

### RECONSTRUCTION

Reconstruction is only done as a matter of private enterprise by proprietors and churches. In Madrid, the Montana barracks, the prison, the workers districts, damaged by the bombardments, remain as they are.. Nothing has been rebuilt. The Arguellos district has bean partly rebuilt. Every owner has taken-in-hand-his own property. The Franquist reconstruction policy is a myth. The people mock at it and make jokes, among then the following - Da Gijon they wond s erected a building marked "Reconstruction Office sin the hallway there were two doors, one marked for partial destruction and the other for total destruction' 80 a well-known Asturian who was visiting the office about his house which had been partially destroyed went into that department. Once inside, there were twe more doors - "for those who have some resources, and for those who have not". He went through the first door, there was another room with two doors - for those who are Falangists, and for those who are not". He went through the second door and found himself in the street.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# 3/4612

FACTS ABOUT PESISTANCE. - In Spain acts of sabotage are carried out on the rail-ways, factories, etc., although he cannot decide whether these are organised actions decreed by illegal organisations of Spanish Republicans or are spontaneous acts of workers who are enemies of the Falangist regime. He does not know any concrete instance of the activity of the workers organisations, C.P.S. etc., but when he was in Madrid on the 22nd and 23rd of last June, there was a film on called "Ee Thieves are Honest Men". There were thousands of lampoons done on that, some very clever and suggestive which were scattered throughout Madrid. According to our informant, one day the lampoons appeared printed in the same type lettering as the poster, with the following - "words of the Caudillo, from a recent speech". For this reason there were arrests and a number of beatings in Madrid. He also saw how the people had lost their fear. In the Oran Via in Madrid a man cried out that he was not only red but communist, and he could not endure this any more. Apparently the people told him to be silent but he did not take any notice. The R.A.F. bombardment of Cologne, which was known in Spain from the English broadcasts, was celebrated almost all over Spain by the people who stayed up much later than the usual time in the streets, drinking in bars, etc. He says that even the police took part as they are largely Anglophile.

GUERILLEROS - He says that there are many in Asturias; there is a state of war. There are Moors and the 'Tercio'. The guerilleros appear occasionally in the villages and avenge the deaths of anti-Fascists who have been murdered by the Falange. They take food and clothes. Once his car was stopped by a group of them in the street of Llanes. They were dressed as Falangists. When he showed his papers as Consul of Cuba and proved he was not the previous consul Pena, a known Falangist, they saluted him and said - Long live the people of Cuba. He says that although they behaved correctly he was rather afraid. He knows that a short time ago the guerilleros of Campocaso had fight with the Civil Guard and killed several people, among them some well known Falangists in the district. It appears that the Querilleros are magnificently armed.

FUTURE PROSPECTS. - He believes firmly that Hitler will be defeated this year. He has great faith in the people of Spain and France, etc. Hasi-dominated Europe will arise, since this life cannot continues "even one winter more". He is confident that the U.S.S.R. will not be defeated; on the contrary the Soviet battlefronts will be the end of Hitlerism. He believes that England and the U.S., in opening a second front, will count on the help of peoples oppressed by the Nazis, in France or in Spain, and things will move rapidly. The Spanish people are waiting for the invasion of the Allies in order to take arms in the streets against their rulers. The Spaniards trust in the Allies and hope that the Second Front will not be long delayed. Soviet and English broadcasts are listened to; they follow the progress of the war. They hate the Germans and the Italians. These who before supported Franco are now his enemies and partisans of the defeat of Hitler. The Spanish people hope to escape from this situation by the defeat of Hitler and trust in the Restoration of the Republic.

Cuba. - 28.7.42.

REPORT No,355

ANGEL MARTINEZ, 26 years old, is a student from Bilbao. He is not a consistent Fascist or anti-Fascist either, as his opinions either confused.

SPANISH ATTITUDE TOWARDS THE WAR. - He says that no one speaks of the war because they take the view that Spain will not enter it. All the world thinks that Germany will lose the war because her enemies are very strong. He says that nothing is said about the second front. About the Blue Division he says that the people are against those who went to Russia, chiefly because they think them mad. He talked to a friend of his who came back from Russia, who was thoroughly glad to be back. He said that our entire war was child's play compared with this one and the way the Russians fight. He says that some Leftists were in the Division through hunger, and some were Falangist adventurers, and in spite of its being said that all are volunteers it is obvious that many were forced into it. He says that in the Gibraltar demonstration, there were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

only four Palangists, “who do not know what war means”.

In general he pretends to be slow and tries to get out of the questions with trifling answers. We think it is because he feels constrained by a Falangist who is with him. He declares that he is against Serrano Suner, but he says he is quite favourable to Franco because he promulgates laws which favour the people and is a partisan of neutrality besides. When we give him examples, especially that of the Blue Division, to show him what Franco's neutrality amounts to, he maintains that they are all volunteers. He says they are always speaking in favour both of Germany and the Allies, because Franco wishes to stand well with both sides. He says that when the state of non-belligerence was established the people were content because before that they were afraid of being involved in the war. This fear, he says, is not so strong now.
When asked what he would do if he were in Spain and the Spanish people were involved in the war he answered - “I would go to the mountains or spend a bullet on the first officer who tried to force me”. He says that many Spaniards would do the same if Spain were forced into the war, because it would be so terrible.

SUPPORT GIVEN BY THE FRANQUIST REGIME TO HITLER. -- He does not know the proportions of this assistance but he says that volunteers continue to leave for the front. In the same way he thinks that if the Germans did not take provisions from Spain all the needs of the country would be supplied. With this idea he complains against the Germans and against Serrano Suner above all. Falangists in uniform are now only seen in parades.

WORKERS FOR GERMANY - He says that a few months ago they sent a great quantity of workers to Germany. They were almost all Galicians, and very few from Bilbao. A little later they were returned because they were being deceived”, “getting into difficulties”. When he was asked to be more precise he said that when they got to Germany they asked to be returned to Spain, and so they did with almost all of them.

TERROR - He says there are no persecutions or executions. When the execution of Larranaga was mentioned he said that the people had no knowledge of those crimes. About the refugees he says that the people talk of their returning to Spain when the war is over.

FRICTION - On this point, without being questioned, he says that the Requetés and Falangists cannot meet, because when the two parties were amalgamated the Requetés were pushed into the background, and that is the reason they prefer the monarchy. On this point he says that he has heard nothing about the restoration nor about the differences between certain leading factions in the army.

RESISTANCE. At first he said that no one speaks about the war or any other problems because the people are afraid. But afterwards he said that people remember the Republic and how well they lived then. He does not report any example of resistance to the war. He says that the Nationalists have a lot of influence, but not so other parties, among them ours. Prieto has no influence either.

In general it is obvious that he is ignorant of many things or does not dare to speak of them.

UNITY - All the anti-Fascists are united, but he gives no details.

FUTURE PROSPECTS - When the war ends with the victory of the Allies Franco will fall, and he thinks that the Republic will return. He thinks it will happen soon because the situation is unbearable, although "there is no need to think of Revolution". He says that if the Germans invaded Spain the people would rise. As we said, he is studying for his bachelors degree. His matriculation costs, including the price of books, about 500 pts; before it used to cost 200. He says that studying has become very difficult. He says that all students belong to the S.E.U. although it is not obligatory, but they are coerced, and they join in order to be in a good position.

ON CONDITIONS OF LIFE - He explains that in the rationing they allow a L. of potatoes per person a week, a quarter litre of live oil, 200 gr. of vegetables etc. No one can live on that except those who have a lot of money; the rest go


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

- 15 -

hungry. The workers, who are paid the same salary as before, cannot afford to deal on the Black Market and he says that there have been cases at Altos Hornos where workers have fallen dead from hunger at work. This causes discontent although it is not openly expressed. Now they have appointed wardens in the factories in Bilbae, and the workers receive larger rating. Here he is contradicting himself, because cocotines he says that these wardens ware demanded cy the workman (which would be a demonstration of resistance) and sometimes he says that the directors asked for them. He says that in spite of everything he cannot understand why when food production is on the increase the workers are so badly fed. Later he says that they watch thes closely and force then to work without ceasing. He relates (although, we inw no details) that the middle class does not feal the pinch like the workers.

POPULAR ORGANISATIONS. They exist fast as they did before. He cites the Club Andauchu which organises excuratong. These organisations are not con- trolled by the Falange. Young people are as gay as before, and dance and go to the mountains.

ARMY- He refers above all the discontent of the families because their sons have to spend four years in the army. Es says that they demonstrate their discontent and that they all want to be demobilised. But this open discontent is confined, he says later, to private conversation.

REPORT No.356.

LUIS FARHAD - a Maxican student, who has always lived in Oljon, Spain. Es Yasily is comfortably off and he is going to Maxico to join his father as he lived on what his father sent him in dollars and when this was forbidden he decided to leave Spain. He is an ardent Falangist. He is ignorant of all problems of the working and middle class. He only associated with people who were very well off, and especially with Falangist students. He is very cultured.

He says that he was in Of jon at the beginning of the war and remained there till now, as he was a Mexican he was molested by neither party.

HUNGER - He roundly asserts that there is no hunger, only a scarcity of certain articles. That with rationing there is not enough for one mouthful but that he never felt the want of food. That the olive oil ration is 1/8 of a litre overy 15 days, and so on for all other commodities. That the rationing of bread (black bread, since white can only be got on the Black Market) is arranged in three categories, and for that there are thres classes of fards - poor, middleclass, and rich. That the ration of the poor is larger, as they have less money for buying on the Black Market. That at Belmonte, Asturias, the rations are double what they are in Cijon. That rationing is different in each province, and even in different places in the same province. He says that no one is interested in politics, that everyone's daily preoccupation is food. He says that it used to make him laugh to see wall-to-do old people who in all their conversations spoke of nothing but the price of beans and bread etc. When ho was asked for facts he says that it is obvious that the poor (by which he seans the workers) who earn 10 or 12 pts. cannot buy anything contraband and live on their rations, which causes them to suffer somewhat from hunger and be very discontented. He says that the fis hunger is caused by the war and the blockade, because as soon as the Spanish war was over there was abundance of everything and free exchange, and as soon as the European war began there was scarcity and rationing. He also says at the same time that the cause of the scarcity is that the Government has bought thousands and thousands of tons of food in case_the.. situation gets any worse. That this is good policy of the "Generalissino's and that the Falange is doing a lot of propaganda, saying that it is much better to keep the food now, whan a lot is coming from Argentine and the U.S., than to eat it now and then if the situation gets worse, have nothing. That the people who are "good stuff accept it, but most people protest and complain. He says that another cause of hunger are the Provisions Committees, which, like those of of jon, are composed of bandits who sell as contraband the articles they are supposed to: divide among the population.

KNTRANCE INTO THE WAR -

says that Spain will not enter the war, that this is
the opinion of everybody. That all approve the foreign policy of the Government,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# 3/4612

which is wry intelligent, as it knows how to maintain a balance in the situation and remain neutral. He says that the Spaniards are very favourable to Germany because they could have penetrated into Spain and taken Gibraltar, thus closing the Mediterranean to the English, but that it is "a Geraan idea that one wiet be pleacant". After arguing a little with hin I said that Geгваду might not have invaded Spain because she was not interested in dispersing her troops, considering that she needs them all for fighting against Russia. Later he confessed that all the Spaniards would fight against the Germans in case they invade Spain because the Spaniards are very fond of their independence, and would fight anyone who wished to enter Spain. The Spanish Government is a partisan of neutrality and the immense majority of the Valange think that Spain should send volunteers to Russia but not enter the war because they do not know that many thousands of Spaniards would be killed.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE WA一 He says that in Spain much petrol has been stored and that now tanks are under construction. He says that this too is being kept for the bad times, and in case anyone tries to invade Spain the 139, 140 and 142 drafts cre mobilised. The 141 draft has been sent homs. The '42 draft was called up with a three months delay. They spend two years in military service. There is also a pre-military service for Youth Organisations. This is not obligatory but it is sounted as tine spent in the servics and for that reason every one does it.

INVASION - He says that there are no Cormans in Spain. Eg has seen none and so on. If there are any they are disguised as peasants. Es is not certain that they are making fortifications in the north of Spain. Mijon is in fact defended by two ships, one of them a "sulta-tacos and if there was an English invasion there #they wuld be the masters.

HELP TO THE NAZIS. - He says that it is not a fact there are more factories in the north of Spain which were not there before, and they do not work for the Germans. That the Germans say in their propaganda that they mean to suspend arnament manufacture, befause they have enough. That Germany is selling a quantity of war material to Turkey, which is a proof that they have no need of it, therefore armaments are not mamfactured in Spain nor exported. But he takes the opposite view, that pain receives material from Germany; there are frequent consignsants, mostly tanks. What Spain does send, not, "as soms sxy because the Germans take it", but because the Government gives it very willingly, is food. Every day many loaded open cars leave Spain and the people talk of it and are dia contented, but those are only those who think with their stomachs".

DESPATCH OF WORKERS, - Es cannot be accurate about the quantity but many thousands have gone, all volunteers. He says it is quite natural for a man with no food or job to go there wherethey eat well and can send money home and because all the poor are like that. That is the reason thay "go as volunteers and are glad to better their position.

DIVISION A- 40,000 want, all volunteers, among them some quite well-known people and distinguished Falengists. The number of volunteers was so great that they had to close the lists and there are many thousands still waiting for their turn to go when they send reinforcements. In April 3,000 who had been r relieved came home, that they were all very happy. Eg had many friends who had gone and others who were ready to leave Our informant asked them if they had.. had many losses but the legionaries said that this was a lie, they had had very fow deaths. There had been many wounded, to the point that not one of then had not been-wounded-at-least once. All those to come homs have bean wounded. They say
• that it is very cold but they stand it very well and are much congratulated by the Germans. They wear the German uniform and thered cap. They say they behaved Mirvellously in Russia and gave the Russians a beating That the Russians, are brave, that is why they attack then from behind, but that they do not know how to fight and do not have good officers, although they have an abundance of material. They attack in nass formation and do not care about theûr losses, so that very few reach the trenches. That nen of the division always fought in a numerical superiority of ten to tone and caused the Russians many losses. Thay ware congratuated by the Hasis and often appeared in the Ogrman war communiques. That on occasions they established a salient on a river and rentated for more than ten days, that as they fought they sang and sang and tint many Spaniards


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

- 15 -

had been decorated with the iron cross. Our informant thinks that they have more losses than they confess to (all trose he spoke with were Falanzist students), and that in the casualty lists published only the names of the most important are given. In Spain everyone admires the courage of the Lezionaries and praises them twice as much as the Germans do. He insista that they are all volunteers, and says in his own words - "a few idealists and the rest, the immense majority, because they were in a bad scatti on in Spain and could get not work or food. They went into the Div. Azul in order to earn a good living because they are paid at the German rate and a war bonus, plus an allowance and large indemnity in case of death". Besides, if they are brave they can desert, when they go on leave they have millions of pts. in their pockets and can put on airs and pose as heroes in their uniforms and their iron crosses in Spain". He says that although the lists are closed, there are thousands who are ready to leave at a day's notice, and that he "knows several. They said they celebrated Christmas very happily in February as they sent them tobacco and food from Spaing

He says that in Spain there is a lot of talk about the war, although no one bothers about politics at all now, and only about food. There are all sorts of parties, partisans of the Allies and the Germans, and among his friends the people are mostly partisans of the Germans; ha also thinks the majority of Spaniards are on the side of the Germans and among the 150 in his university hall only two were partisans of Democracy and they had fierce arguments in loud voices until the director came. The partisans of the Masis maintained that anyone who wanted England to win was not a Spaniard because if the Democracies win Prieto will come back and all the Reds of the Republic, and there will be a government of Leftists and in this fashion they attach the defenders of England. The students say - "we are very fond of Ogrmany, because sha helps us to be free of communism and is now defending us against it." H says that this appeals to many people who also hate communism.

SECOND FRONT, - He says that no one believes it will be established. The Cormans cannot invade England, nor can the Engrish invade Europe. All Spaniards would unite to defend themselves from the English. Theywuld do the same if the Carmans invaded Spain,

ON THE WAR.- He said that the Spamsh idea was that it would last five or six years and that when they were all exhausted there would be an armistice or negotiated peace. This is the opinion of the people on the Right and the Falangists; he does not know the views of the rest. Franco said in a speech - "If the Russiana make a breach and arrive at Berlin, he will send two million men to fight comrunisa". They do not attack the Republicans much, but blame the Russian agents and the Communists for all that is happening in Spain. He says that in Hendaye there are hundreds of asro lanes and many fields full of tanks. The Germans have war material on the frontier in fantastic quantities. He thinks that is in order to be in a position to assist either France or Spain if it were necessary.

FRICTION - He says that there are no disagreements between the Roquetes, Falangists or Catholics; they are all united, and if there ware any friction there are no scenes or qua rrels bebause the "Generalissimo would shoot them.

FRENTE DE LA JUVENTUD, - He says that it was a failure, that at the beginning many people were excited by the propaganda, then they got tired and practically the Youth Front does not exist.

STUDENTS, These-are-all-the-very harpy to be members of the S.E.U. because they avoid military service. The S.B.U. is obligatory. They only corps they have to belong to is the University Militia. In summer they go to camps where they have military instruction and are commanded by students who are officers with some officers from the Aray.

RESISTANCE OF THE PEOPLE - There is none at all. In Spain there is a totalitarian Government favourable to the Ogrmans. In totalitarian countries there are no protests or any resistance because anyone who resisted would be shot. There are discontented people but they are silent, they do not speak because they cannot. I have seen no inscriptioton the walls of Cijon, the only thing there are a few robbers, the so-called Querilleros, who rob, kil


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

and assassinate. Three months ago at the Puerto de Somiedo, they machine
gunned a bus wit: travellers in it and the Civil Juard retreated. They
are assisted by the discontented peasants and their families. If they came
to Franco, with their hands free of blood, he would pardon them".

TERROR - At the beginnig they shot many people, especially to pay off
personal scores. Now it is done through the tribunals. It is a fact that
shooting continues, but only for those ondermed to death.....

FUTURE PROSPECTS - Perhaps the end of the war will solve all these problems,
The Governments of Spain will impuse peace, law and order as soon as the war
is over.

RESTORATION OF THE NARCHY, - All a lie; all respectable people support
Franco and the disagreements there are between the parties do not constitute
a problem.

DI SAGREEMENTS IN THE ARMY - He says there are none. Queipo was sent out side
Spain diplomatically, as a drunkard and a rescal, as all the army is with
Franco and Hitler, wizo have saved Spain and Burope from Communism.

PECONSTRUCTION - He says there is a lot being done in the way of reconstruction.
In Of jon they have built hundreds of new houses and the town is very much changed.
The people who have money are afraid it will lose its value, daily, and eithar
build or use the money for business.
4.3.42.

REPORT No.357

JCSE FAGOS, a peasant, resident in Cuba for 11 years, returned to Spain
in 1940. At that time he was a Franquist. He is very backward and extremely
suspicious. At first to refused to speak, especially when he was told that
he must talk to a journalist. He knots very little, since he lived in a small
village in the district of Estrado and only left it to embark. He often mys
that he knows nothing, and can only give information about his village that is
not political. Is a Loderate anti-Falangist, and continues to defend Franco, of
whom he has a high opinion, in many instances. The first thing he asserts is that
in Spain there is not so much hunger as they say here. There is a scarcity
caused by the war but it is just the same as it is everywhere, those with money
eat and those without go hungry. It is not true that they requisition the
peasants cros, at least in the part of Spain he knows. He says that
everyone says in Spain that they control the crops, and even if they force them to
sell at the standard rate they leave the peasants enough to eat. It is obvious
that everyone makes fun of the order and hides the produce "but it is not that
they requisition them, but that the Government controls produce and they
have to sell it at fixed rates." He says that he has a brother in the army and
the soldiers are very well fed. The food is nell prepared but rather scarce.
In Estrada they get the kod two regulation loaves just as before the war,
but in Coruna tread is scarcer in the barracks. What everybody wants is for
the war to end, anyhow, what is wanted is peace and tranquillity. When asked
about the second front he says everyone is hoping for the English to come and
give orders in his house but when the people are so anxious they want some-
thing to happen to change the situation and see if it isproves". On further
questioning he confesses that 90% of the population are against Franco- not on
his own account but on account of the hunger and misery there is..

There is no repressica. People are only executed legally, through the
tribunals.

He says that no one wishes Spain to enter the war, and Franco, if he could, woi
would have bean on the other side already, but as he has the Germans on the
frontier he cannot do it". The rich and the nenarchists are discontented, and
there are many people who were deceived and do not like the present regine.
Asked whether the people support the Germans of the Allies, he says -
some on each side. A little later he says everybody hates the Germans and is
afraid of their encroachments except the Balangists.

arrive, which is natural. He says he does not want the English to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# 17

## THE DIVISION AZUL, he says vas voluntary, at least the papers say 80.
although I do not know". (His most frequent phrase is the papers say 80
but nobody knows). Be asserts that there were many volunteers and one
went fros the municipal government of Estrada, his village, he was the
assistant to a high official. He does not know anything about the sur-
vivors. Es gives the address of a Cuban who arrived in the Comillas with
an asputated foot, a volunteer in the Blue Division. (The father of the legionary,
when questioned at the port, said he was lane through an accident).
He confirms the stories about Quaipo and Iague, In Vigo he heard the
following story The Governor of Burgos was imprisoned for black marketeering
and a son of his, a lieutenant in the army, went to Madrid to see Serrano
Suner, who refused to see him and told him to see his secretary; the lie
tenant refused and was referred to the Aide-de-Camp. The Alde-de-Camp
unfortunately asked him what he wanted and the Governor's son said - I
wanted to put two bullets in S. Suner, but as I can't I'll put them in
you instead, he shot his and left him dead.

In Vigo a bad meal cost him 20 pts. He does not know anything about it,
but the people say the Germans take everything. When we ask his opimon
about the scarcity of rice, olive oil, etc. he ends by saying that he thinks
too that the Nazis take it.

## FUTURE PROSPECTS - He says that any regime will do as long as it is not
this one. No blood to be spilt and those in the wrong to be pardoned. There
are many people in the wrong who joined Franco, but have now repented. He
says that those people fear the fall of Franco because there would be re
tribution, and many people would be killed, but if the Republic could come
without bloodshed everyone would be delighted.

A cow is worth 5.000 pts. The Civil Quard turn a blind eye to the con
traband såles of the peasants because it suits them.

## REPORT No.358

Report from a youth of 17, a Cuban, born of Spanish parents, who
was living in Santander for about ten years with his grandmother. He has
no political convictions and in some respects is rather influenced by Nazis
and reactionary propaganda. He is quite a wide awake intelligent boy. Eg
talks váth no reservations and seems to be telling everything he knows.

## ATTITUDE OF THE SPANIARDS TO THE WAR AGAINST HITLER.- He says that in
Spain there are two parties, ons which supports the Ogrmans and wishes
for their triumph and the other which sympathises and hopes for the victory
of the Allies. In the first class S. Saner stands out, it includes all the
Falango, some generals, and the middle class, government employees etc.
The other class includes the majority of Requites, the rich whose money is
in London, the workers, and all the poor in general. En says that in Spain
it is only permitted to speak in favour of the Germans, and that the parti-
sans of the Allies speak in Asecret and among-trusted friends. With the
passage of tim, owing to the German campaign in Russia, which the Falangists
said would end in a week, there is growing a loss of confidence in the
German triumph, both among the partisans of the Allies, who were dispirited at
the beginning of the Russian campaign, and among the supporters of Germany
themselves. He says that in Spain, except for a couple of Falangist focls, no
one-wants-the-war, not-even-the-army chiefs, such less the soldiers. Ha
really thinks that if they gave the order to march, no one_would protest, but
he does not insist on what would definitely happen. The German defeats in
Russia, which are considered very important in Spain, have greatly contributed
to raise the morale of the enemies of the Falange, who are now resisting it
openly. (He refers to the Roquetes and in gandx general to the partisans of
England who are very mumerous). The entry of the U.S. into the war was not
considered very important, because Garman propaganda, which is very widespread,
says that the submarines sank all the ships which campe to Europe and that
there was very little use in producing a quantity of war material if it never
reaches Europe. He adds that the people realised that the Germans were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# 3/4612

and assassinate. Three months ago at the Puerto de Somiedo, they machine- gunned a bus wita traveliers in it and the Civil Quard retreated. They are assisted by the discontented peasants and their families. If they came to Franco, with their hands free of blood, he would pardon them".

TERROR - At the beginnig they shot many people, especially to pay off personal scoгев. Now it is done through the tribunals. It is a fact that shooting continues, but only for those ondemed to death.

FUTURE PROSPECTS - Perhaps the end of the war will solve all these problems, The Governments of Spain will impuse peace, law and order as soon as the war is over.

RESTORATION OF THE NARCHY - All a lie; all respectable people supnert Franco and the disagreements there are between the parties do not constitute a problem.

DI SAGREEMENTS IN THE ARMY - He says there are none. Queipo was sent out side Spain diplomatically, as a drunkard and a rescal, as all the army is with Franco and Hitler, wiro have saved Spain and Europe from Communism.

PECONSTRUCTION - He says there is a lot being done in the way of reconstruction. In Of jon they have built hundreds of new houses and the town is very much changed. The people who have money are afraid it will lose its value, daily, and either build or use the money for business.

4.3.42.

REPORT No.357

JOSE PAGOS, a peasant, resident in Cuba for 11 years, returned to Spain in 1940. At that time he was a Franquist. He is very backward and extremely suspicious. At first he refused to speak, especially when he was told that he must talk to a journalist. He knows very little, since he lived in a small village in the district of Estrado and only left it to embard. He often says that he knows nothing, and can only give information about his village that is not political. Is a Loderate anti-falangist, and continues to defend Franco, of whom he has a high opinion, in many instances. The first thing he asserts is that in Spain there is not so much hunger as they say here. There is a scarcity caused by the war but it is just the same as it is everywhere, those with money eat and those without go hungry. It is not true that they requisition the peasan ta crops, at least in the part of Spain he knows. He says that everyone says in Spain that they control the crops, and even if they force them to soll at the standard rate they leave the peasants enough to eat. It is obvious that everyone makes fun of the order and hides the produce "but it is not that thay requisition them, but that the Government controls produce and they have to sell it at fixed rates." He says that he has a brother in the army and the soldiers are very well fed. The food is well prepared but rather scarce. In Estrada they get the kxand two regulation loaves just as before the war, but in Coruna bread is scarcer in the barracks. What everybody wants is for the war to end, anyhow, what is wanted is peace and tranquillity. When asked about the second front he says everyone is hoping for the English to come and give orders in his house but when the people are so anxious they want some- thing to happen to change the situation and see if it improves". On further questioning he confesses that 90% of the population are against Franco- not on his own account but on account of the hinger and misery there is..

There is no repression. People are only executed legally, through the tribunals..

He says that no one wishes Spain to enter the war, and Franco, if he could, wot would have bean on the other side already, but as he has the Germans on the frontier he cannot do it. The rich and the sanarchists are discontented, and there are many people who were deceived and do nit like the present regime.

Asked whether the people support the Germans of the Allies, he says - some on each side. A little later he says everybody hates the Germans and is afraid of their encroachments except the Balangists.

* arrive, which is natural. He says he does not want the English to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

- 17 -

8/4612

THE DIVISION AZUL, he says was voluntary, at least *the papers say so* although I do not know. (His most frequent phrase is *the papers say so but nobody knows*). He asserts that there were many volunteers and one went from the municipal government of Estrada, hic village, he was the assistant to a high official. He does not know anything about the survivors. He gives the address of a Cuban who arrived in the *Comillas* with an amputated foot, a volunteer in the Blue Division. (The father of the legionary, when questioned at the port, said he was lane through an accident).

He confirms the stories about Queipo and Zague, In Vigo he heard the following story - The Governor of Burgos was imprisoned for black marketeering and a son of his, a lieutenant in the army, went to Madrid to see Serrano Sunar, who refused to see him and told him to see his secretary, the lieutenant refused and was referred to the Aide-de-Camp. The Aide-de-Camp unfortunately asked him what he wanted and the Governor's son said - *I wanted to put two bullets in S. Suner, but as I can't I'll put them in you instead*; he shot him and left him dead.

Da Vigo a bad meal cost him 20 pts. He does not know anything about it, but the people saythe Gerana take overything. When we ask his opinion about the scarcity of rice, olive oil, etc. he ende by saying that he thinias too that the Nasis take it.

FUTURE PROSPECTS - Ho says that any regime will do as long as it is not this one. No blood to be spilt and *those in the wrong* to be pardoned. There are many people in the *wrong* who joined Franco, but have now repented. He says that those people fear the fall of Franco because there would be re tribution, and many people would be killed, but if the Republic could come without bloodshed everyone would be delighted.

A cow is worth 5.000 pts. The Civil Quard turn a blind eye to the contraband sales of the peasants because it suits them.

REPORT No.358

Report from a youth of 17, a Cuban, born of Spanish parents, who was living in Santander for about ten years with his grandmother. He has no politica convictions and in some respects is rather influenced by Nasis and reactionary propaganda. He is quite a wide awake intelligent boy. Eg talks with no reservations and seems to be telling everything he knows.

ATTITUDE OF THE SPANIARDS TO THE WAR AGAINST HITLER. -- He says that in Spain there are two parties, ons which supports the Carmans and wishes for their triumph and the other which sympathises and hopes for the victory of the Allies. In the first class S. Suner stands out, it includes all the Falange, some generals, and the middle class, government employees etc. The other class includes the majority of Requêtes, the rich moso money is in London, the workers, and all the poor in general. Eg says that in Spain it is only permitted to speak in favour of the Garaans, and that the partisans of the Allies speak in secret and among-trusted friends. With the passage of tim, owing to the German campaign in Russia, which the Falangists said would end in a week, there is growing a loss of confidence in the Garman triumph, both among the partisans of the Allies, who were dispirited at the beginning of the Russian campaign, and among the supporters of Germany themselves. He says that in Spain, except for a couple of Falangist fools, no one wants the war, not even the army chiefs, much less the soldiers. He really thinks that if they gave the order to march, no one would protest, but he does not insist on what would definitely happen. The German defeats in Russia, which are considered very important in Spain, have greatly contributed to raise the morale of the enemies of the Falange, who are now resisting it openly. (He refers to the Requstes and in pad gemeral to the partisans of England who are very mumerous). The entry of the U.B. into the war was not considered very important, because Ogrman propaganda, which is very widespread, says that the submarines sank all the ships which came to Europe and that there was very little use in producing a quantity of war material if it never reaches Europe. He adds that the people realised that the Germans were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

- 18 -

3/4612

exaggerating, since in the Russian Campaign they said that the Russians were defeated already and nevertheless months passed and the war went on. Our informant did not know the existence of the Anglo-Soviet and Soviet-American pacts, although he heard some agreement spoken of, but he never knew exactly what it bas. There was a lot of talk about the second front, and it is thought it will be in France. When asked what, in the event of the English landing in Spain, the attitude of the people would be, he says he thinks the Requetes would unite with them. When I told him I thought they had sent a brother of mine to the Div. Asul. he made a face as if they had sent him to the devil. "I am sorry, because those wo go to Russia in generd do not return, and those who do come back are crippled for life". He says that to the Div. Axul was joined by the unfortunates who are, with their families, dying of hunger, and adventurers and robbers; some too because they were soldiers already and did not dare say no because they would have cut their throats if they had. He says that in the beginning a group of 40 left Santander and a few months ago ten came home, armless, legless or tubercular, the restdied of it. One of them, a captain, and tubercular, told some of his family and friends that all the Ogrman propaganda on the Russian war was an absolute lis. That the Russians never retreated until they were killed or received an order to retreat. That it is a lie to say that they have no leaders, and similarly that they have rio material. He knew better than anybody what the war in Russia had already cost the Germans.. During the winter they had lost millions of men and a great deal of material. It was terifying what went in there. He says that those who come back from Russia are forbidden to speak of what they see there and therefore it is impossible to get more details. However they tell their friends in confidence.

ASSISTANCE GIVEN BY THE FRANCO FALANGIST REGIME TO HITLER. - The reinforcements they send to the Div. Asul grow less each time. No one wants to go because the stories of the survivors are gradually passed round. He adds that the Germans pay then very highly. They give them 3.000 pts. just for crossing the frontier. A few months ago a few left Santander to concentrate in San Sebastian. It is there that they train. While before, they made propaganda out of those who were going to Russia, and saw them off at the Station, now it is done secretly.

All foodstuffs are sent to Ogrmany, that is why there is famine in Spain. "I wish you could see all the things they send. Imagine that one cant get olive oil, which used to be so abundant in Spain". They say that in Bilbao and in Reinosa (?) and other places the factories work for the Germans. According to him there are no German soldiers in Spain, only technicians. Germans in civilian clothes are particularly common. He added that the Ogrmans spend millions on propaganda and there are many newspapers, reviews, pamphlets etc. which are distributed gratis. The people, as a result of so much propaganda, do not know what to think on some points. They say - "If what the Germans say of Russia is true that country is doomed to disappear; there is nothing but savagery there". He says that some German propaganda postcards show Roosevelt and Churchill dressed as prostitutes, and Stalin in the middle embracing them. The people do not like this kind of propaganda. As for the German infiltration into the country, he limits imself to saying that they are the masters in Spain. He gives no data. He says that the Falange is very much weakened, that only timeservers and those who do business, thanks to the positions they occupy in.it, are its supporters. Whereas, when it began, everybody wished to be Falangists, now no one takes any notice, and some people are careful to conceal the fact that they are Falangists. They say that the Requstes appear very upset. They were the ones who fought hardest in the war and now the Palangists are taking advantage of the victory. He says they do not give positions to the Requetes, and when the Falangists control the syndicates they do not give then work either. There is a great deal of discontent among the Roquetes, and they have already begun to speak openly against the Falangists and those whon they blame for the present situation in Spain. They accuse them of being rabbars. He says that they have printed broadsheets about the Falange, which they scatter on the streets and stick on walls at night. He adds that the syndicates have many members, because membership is obligatory, bat if it were not so no one would belung. They oblige the young men to enter the Trente mix de la Juventud", although many are already losing their fear, and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# 8/4612

do not join, or, if they make them members against their will, do not pay the duss. Referring to the despatch of workers to Germany, he says the numbers were high because they offered them a good salary and food as well, but he has the impression that they were deceived, like the members of the Div. Asul. He does not know any more details.

## FRICTION BETWEEN THE RULING CLASS IN SPAIN. -

In the army there is a group headed by Laque and Queipo, who are opposed to Spain entering the war, and the Germans and Italians controlling Spain. He says that in conjunction with the Requetes and other individuals in the army, they were preparing a coup against Franco, and principally against S. Suner, who is the worst hated of all, but it was found out and no one knows what happened to Yague and Queipo. General Espinosa de los Monteros also had something to do with it, but he does not know exactly what his part was. Referring to Yague, he says that he was dismissed from the Air Ministry when he made a speech in favour of releasing the prisoners. Queipo refused to allow the Italians to have any olive oil. The situation of the soldiers is very bad. They hardly eat at all, and are very badly clothed. It is pitiful to see them. They all wish to be demobilised as soon as possible. The '39 draft has been demobilised and he thinks the first reserve of the '40 draft as well. He thinks it is because they cannot keep them in barracks for want of food.

## THE PEOPLE'S RESISTANCE TO THE WAR AND THE REGIME -

According to our informant the state of mind of the people is one of extreme hostility towards the present state of affairs, although it is not obviously shown. The Reds are in hiding. He says that the only people who are openly fighting against the Falange and the Regime in power are the Requetes. That besides the pamphlets we have referred to above, there often appear on the walls, lampoons and posters against the Palange. He remembers one which said more or less - "Famine and Theft, that is the Falange". There appeared another very like it, but he does not know what it said because they rubbed it out at once. He says the Requetes also accused the Falangists of being cowardly assassins who are only useful for doing mass assassinations ("dar Paseos").

The people take a sympathetic view of these actions of the Requetes. In the queues people speak against the Government and the Falange. There are many prisoners. When the "nationalists" first entered Santander they killed people in thousands. The Falangists held many "paseos". They went on killing, only less than at first. The prisoners died of their harsh treatment, many were tubercular. He does not know if they give them organised assistance. Probably relations and friends. He does not know of any activity of the party, or the J.S.U. The Reds are very carefully watched. The only ones who do anything are the Requetes. In general our informant does not know any of our organisations because he was very young when the war began. The only thing he says is the Falangists are like those they used to call the F.A.I. They go to a house, steal, take a man, take him and shoot him, and then it is finished". We could not get any information about the Union Nacional, although he gives the impression that he does not know anything about it.

He has no ideas in the future prospects. He thinks that this depends on England; there is talk that the Requetes wish to set up a King who is not a Bourbon. He does not know anything the restoration of Don Juan. The Falangists are enemies of the Monarchy and the people do not worry much about this problem. Referring to the attack on S. Suner, Espinosa de los Monteros, Ambassador in Berlin, had on one of his visits to Madrid, a violent quarrel with Suner and in consequence resigned. He reports that then he was appointed Captain General of the Sixth Region, Burgos, and on taking over the post he made a speech in which he attacked the Falange. He reports that as a consequence he was violently dismissed. A few days later a son of the general who is a lieutenant in the army, shot at S. Suner several times, he thinks in Madrid. Arrese was wounded in consequence. The press said nothing about it. They published a notice that the Secretary of the Party was undergoing an abdominal operation.

The Italian submarine which entered Santander was damaged in the Caribbean. A few miles from Santander, and in full view of everybody, it was attacked very near the coast by two English aeroplanes which all but sank it. He says it entered harbour, listing over on one side. The English aeroplanes were not able to finish the sinking because German pursuit planes forced them to retire. When asked where the (German) planes came from he said Irun. (He gives


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

- 20 -

3/4612

the impression that he does not know really where their base was).

30.7.42.

REPORT 371

A young Basque 24 or 25 years old. By profession a metal-worker. Up to the beginning of the war he was working with an uncle in Zaragoza. Es remained in the battle sone throughout the whole war and was mobilised in Franco's army, Is a Basque nationalist, like almost all tis family. Although a workman by profession he always worked with his relatins, almost always as foreman, or at least as manager. He has no political point of view nor are his class feelings very developed. He has never belonged to any syndicate. After the war was over he worked in Bilbao in a wire factory where there were about a thousand workmen. He final'y left work in order to devote himself to the Black Market because, acording to him, it was impossible to live on what ho was paidi at the factory. He lived in Nationalist circles, they were the only ones with which he was conected. For this reason his report is rather incomplete, and in some cases lacks objectivity. He is rather reserved.

ATTITUDE OF THE SPANIARDS TOWARDS THE ANTI-HITLER WAR, - In the graphic words of the informant, 80% of Spaniards are partisans of England. The workers, peasants, petit-bourgeois, capitalists, and some of the clergy, (later he told us the majority of the Basque cures) are on the side & England, although in a passive way, and against Germany and the Falange.

The general opinion which is expressed in conversations between groups of friends, and lately also in the street, is that the defeat of Germany is in evitable, due, according to our informant, to the fact that the Allies have more economic resources and more primary materials. It is thought that the United States will be a very important factor in therelisation of victory. Also the defeats suffered by Germany on the Eastern front contribute to stressing this opinion.

In Spain everyone is tired of the war, and no one wishes Spain to take part in it. There people are in a real panic on this score. Our informant thinks that if Franco should decide to fight, in viewd the terrorist nature of the Regime, the people would have to obey. Later in another conversation he said that there were people who, in that case, would hide in the mountains.

The defeats suffered by Germany on the Rastern front were well known there and contributed to increase the people's confidence. He says that they said there that, in spite of their resistance, it was obvious that the Rassi ans ware not sufficiently prepared to face a power like Germany.

The entry of the United States into the war was received with toy by the people who interpreted it as an event destined to shorten the war, of which they are all very tired over there.

The Ratification of the Anglo-Russian Pact and the American-Russian agreemant is known there, although the range and content of the pact and the agreement were not known. He says that the Falangist press; only said that these nations had promised not to make a separate peace.

He does not know the agreement about the second front, although this subject is very often spoken of, with the idea that it would be the final blow to Germany. Over there they think that the opening of the Second Front will result in the rising of the French people, perhaps the Spanish people too. With the idea in mind the people often discuss possible landing places. It is thought that this-will-take-place-in-France, although some say it might also happen in Spaina The opening of the second front would be received with joy by all..

The attitude of the people to the Division Asul is frankly hostile.

It has no sympathy from the people, even from the very moment the recruiting was begun. He says that in the beginning a few volunteers gave their names, mainly Falangists who w. shed to earn merit in order to improve their position in Spain. Others went because their position in Spain was desperate and they thought it might improve if they left it. Some, who want in the army, found themselves in the position of not being able to refuse, because if they had they would have got into trouble. But they all went in the belief that they would see the war fron a distance, and that they were really being sent as a symbolic deputation for the Moscow parade. He says the press made propaganda, asserting that the Spanish soldier could fight in all climates, as they had shown at Teruel. H


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

- 21 -

3/1612
says that when the names of the first casualties arrived, the people were glad
and said that "that will teach them to interfere in what does not concern them".
The survivors came back disillusioned. They repent of having gone. The
majority of them come back ill or crippled. He adds that the war in Russia
is worse than the Press reports.it; the Spanish war was child's play compared with
it. The Falangists are more reserved and make no public criticisms like the
others but among their friends they also say that it was terrible. They went
into action in fact just before the Russian counter-offensive began, and
received the full brunt. They had many losses through bullets and the cold.
Some of those who came back crippled have German iron crosses for which they
get a pension, our informant does not know the an unt, from the German Government.

SUPPORT OIVEN BY THE FRANGIST REGIME AND THE FALANGE TO HITLER. - Our
informant does not know in whatquantity they send reinforcements to the Blue
Division. He thinks that there is some exageration on this point on the part
of the Falangist Press which tries in this way to encourage enthusiasm among the
young men. He knows that the place they report to and train is San Sebastian,
and that from there they leave for thefront. He thinks that they are still
sending people, but they are only reliefs for those who come home. He adds
that those who go to the Division Asul today, with very few exceptions, do it
against their will. They get the majority of those who go from the barracks.
He says that many workmen went to Germany on account of the lack of food and
work. He does not know how many but he thinks a fair Quantity. He says that the
people take these things calmly generally, because they cannot do anything
against them. He only heard that in Irun there had been some scene with the
Blue Division or with the workers who were going to Germany but he gives no
actual details, saying that it is dangerous to try and know too much.

In Spain the fost fervent supporters of the Naxis are - Suner, Munos Grande,
Moscardo and other generals, and especially the "idealist" Falangists, or those
who cauitted injustices or profiteered and are afraid of "the tables being
turned.

Es says that the Falange is only the shadow of what it was during the
war. That at the beginning many people joined it for safety's sake, but now
it is dead thing that no one takes any notice of. The same happened with the
Flechas", "Frente de la Juventud etc. The syndicates have many members,
because membership is obligatory in order to get work. The workers would not
join them if they could help it. He says that all the directors are Falangist
bureaucrats who take avantage of their position to steal all they can. He
cites as an example the fact that employers are obliged to pay sometring as
a contribution to the subsidy allocated to workmen with large families, out he
says that the Falangists do not pay it to anybody, but spend it themselves.
For these and other similar reasons there is a lot of discontent among the
employers.

Our informant says that they are still sending large quantities of food
to Germany, also iron and other materials. The people know that if there is
famife in Spain it is because the Germans and the "Black Marketeers"

Aaked about the production of the metal factories in Bilbao, he says that
they are working at pressure, but he does not know if it is war material.
He knows that pig-iron is being sent to France, he imagines it is intended
for Germany. Dron ore is also sent to France by sea.

FRICTION AMONG THE RULING CLASSES. - He knows that in the army there is a surge
of feeling against the Falange, but he says that it has no outside reperoussions...
The only incident known there was the case of Yague and Queipo de Llano. In
general there is a great feeling against the Falange among the soldiers. The
consequence is that they make life impossible for Falangists in the army.

He says that the majority of the Basque Priests are enemies of Germany,
of the Falange and of Franco. They are very indignant about the executions
of nationalist priests carried out by France. Even today there are many of
them in prisons. He says that the priests devote voluntary masses to praying
that Spain may not enter the war.

He says that other members of the clergy, although they are opposed to the
Catholic persecutions in Germany and Poland, support Franco because they balteve
that only with his help can they preserve their positions.

Be adds that the richest and most influential people there do not wish to
hold official posts because they feel that there will be a change in Spain
and they do not wish to have the responsibility of the crims committed by others.
Official posts are occupied by a series of bandite.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

Hatred for the Falange is general in the majority of sodal classes. He says that even those who belonged to the Falange before, young students, employees or just rich peole, do not wish to have anything to do with it now, and say that the Falange is going to the dogs. He adds that in general everybody hopes that the triumph of England will cause a change of government in Spain and so they confine themselves to waiting although there is talk of a possible coup d'etat by the soldiers,

RESISTANCE OF THE PRO LE AGAINST ENTERING THE WAR A''D AGAINST THE FRANQUIST REGINE - The peoole wish to see the situation change as soon as possible, but they believe that the solution must come from outside. According to our informant, there is no thought of fighting against a regine. He says that the workers in the factory in mich he worked spoke openly against the regise but he does not know that there was any activity. (Civen the character of the informant we may sup ose that even if there was he would take pains to ignore it). From time to time the women ricted in the queues, at first they simt them up, ow they say nothing. I asserts that every day the people speak more openly against the regime. The contribution to "Auxilio Social" was obligatory before but now no one pays. When the young ladies of "Auxilio Social beg for subscriptions in the streets and ask the reason for refusal, some people answer - because I do not wian to.

He says that when Franco was at Bilbao the people remained in their houses and he was received only by four chats bottes in the offices of the Falange, At the end of Franco's sech not a soul applauded. Then some Falangist young ladies said, half in tears, what we must do is buy a machine gun and shoot them all.

Assistance to the prisoners, according to our informant is given by relations and friends. There is no organised assistance, but he proceeds to tell us that certainly there have been collections sometimes in the factory in favour of the prisoners, but by groups of friends". He does not know of the activity of ary organisation, as such. The nationalists, according to him (he is a nationalist) are the ones who have some organisation.

They distributed there a speech made by Aguirre in America. One of the Prieto's was also in circulation. He has no news of the other organisations although he admits that if they have any organisation they would not go and tell him about it.

When he is asked about the activity of the different organisations of which the Frente Popular is composed, and the attitude of the militant party members of these organisations, he asserta categorically that there the people are completely united, and there is now no talk of socialists, anarchists, communists, republicans.etc. All treat each other as comrades, and help each other as far as they can. In Spain, according to our informant, there are only now enamies of Franco and the Falange, who maintain a strict unity among themselves; thay discuss the progress of the war together, comment on the situation etc. Eg says that the people wish for unity, regret the disunion there was before in Spain. and the quarrels between different parties and anti-fascist organisations.

He did not know of the shooting of Larra or Diegues. The execution of Larra impressed him very much and he said that in order to do what Larra had done one would need plenty of guts.

FUTURE PROSPECTS - He repeats again that they believe in Spain that the triumph of England will cause a change in the situation. (We must point out that for some time there have been currents in the Basque nationalism which have been seeking for a solution of their national problem with the assistance of England, transforming the Pais Basque into an English protectorate or Dominion or something like that, and even during the Spard sh war there were individuals who thought that at the critical moment the Basques would receive help from the English)

Our informant told us at the beginning that there people spoke only in favour of England, but after considerable circumlocution he confessed that the workers also sympathised very such with the Soviet Union, although conversations in this direction ware much more restrained. He added that the people were quite well informed about the course of events as they listen daily to the bulletins of Radio London, and some also listen to those of Radio Moscow

The people in general are in favour of a solution on the basis of the Republic. Others are afraid that the fall of France will result in a revolution worse than the other and for this reason they are more hesitant. Those individuals are specially the rich. If they believed that the Republic would be established without bloodshed they would be in complete agreement with it.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

In Spain they believe that Hitler may be defeated in 1942, especially
if the Second Front is started. They also say that Russia is bearing the
brunt of the fight..

Speculation about a monarchist restoration has neither delighted cr
depressed the people. The possibility does not arouse mich. interest.
The people, who, according to our informant, have most prestige in
Buskadi (Basque national territory) are Aguirre and Prieto, especially the
former.

As regards conditions of material life he assures us that they are terrible
and that is the fundamental reason why all the people have turned against
France. There is much talk of no Lome without bread or a roof, but that
does not improve the situation.

All business is controlled by the "Black Marketeers of the falange who,
sheltered behind the Comittees of Supply, requisition the crops from the
peasants at the standard rate, and instead of selling them to the people at
the standard rate they reduce rationing to almost nothing in order to compal
the people to buy articles on the Black Market, at a price which will give them
the profits. He says the these who have money to buy things contraband (and
they are the majority since salaries have hardly been increased at all in
comparison with pre-war standards) die of hunger. He gives prices which
correspond with those for other regions of Spain".

NOTE: the military and naval information contained in these reports has been
extracted and supplied to the S.O... Trinidad, and the Military
Adviser, Imperial Cersorship, Trinidad, under the reference numbers
S.B./3.0.1.1, and S.B./M.A.1 respectively.

T/9.9.42.
Copies to London, New York, Bermuda & Jamaica.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DU FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

TFDESCHI, LUIS
201-0289247
SEX M
CIT ARGE

379-001-002
D80-76473
04 SFP 44
FBI
P8

LETTER DROP
CONNECTED W/OR MENTIONED IN PALACIOS-NUNEZ CASE
/INVOLVING SPAN COMMUNIST NETWORK, PRINCIPALLY.
IN LATIN AMER/ SEE PALACIOS-NUNEZ CASE INDEX
FOR VOLUME /S/ AND PAGE /S/

DATE 15 OCT 74

09190912

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

For Bolly

Bob Turn Tarr

1943 Address,

under same ven

① Estados Unidos 2266

Buenos Aires

② Pichincha 969

Buenos Aires

Collateral information on

On original no additional -

29 AUG 1975

See if filed can furnish any additional
background info -

20

Form Filled In
F: IMPDET
CL BY 05-975

FORM 2731

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

## FIELD PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

**TO** HEADQUARTERS, RI

**DATE** 9 December 1960

**FROM** ANN EGERTER, CI/SIG, 1408J

**ACTION**

**INSTRUCTIONS:** Form must be typed or printed in black letters. (82621)

SECTION 1: All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION 11: Cryptonym or pseudonym will be entered in Headquarters.

SECTION 111: To be completed in all cases.

SECTION I

SENSITIVE

NON-SENSITIVE

201 NO. 289247

1. SOURCE DOCUMENT HABW-6515-17oct 60

NAME (Last) TEDESCHI, (First) Luis
(Middle)
(Title)
SEX

NAME VARIANT

TYPE

NAME
(Last)
(First)
(Middle)
(Title)

PHOTO

YES

NO

BIRTH DATE 2-2-19

COUNTRY OF BIRTH ?

CITY OR TOWN OF BIRTH ?

OTHER IDENTIFICATION 1 cm:58

OCC/POS. CODE

OCCUPATION/POSITION

SECTION 11

CRYPTONYM PSEUDONYM

SECTION 111

COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE Argentina 004

10. ACTION DESK R/S+6 731

11. 2ND COUNTRY INTEREST Wafa

12. 3RD COUNTRY INTEREST

12A.

COMMENTS: etc.?: e 1943 was an active member of the Spanish Communist Party.

*   Address 1943: Pichincha 969, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
*   Suspected Soviet agent dufo rotl. 1943 C's Coxy

PERMANENT CHARGE

RESTRICTED FILE

SIGNATURE Abu Fegrtiz

201-289247

FORM 831a

10-57

SECRET

RECORD COPY

(38)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

FBI doc.
27 Jan 69 (NY)
RE: Carl Winter, Helen Winter
DBC 41305

FBI doc.
1 Feb. 1972 (NY)
RE: Jim Beynon
Bufile: NY 100-175210
DBD 31051

FBI doc.
26 Dec. 1968 (Seatlle)
RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov
DBC 39101

FBI doc.
22 April 1963 (Detroit)
RE: The United States Festival Committee, Inc.
Bufile: 100-436225
DBA 39107

FBI doc.
24 Jan 1969 (NY)
RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov, Galina Sergeyevna Orekhova
DBC-41307

FBI doc.
24 June 1966 (Wash.)
RE: Communist Party, United States of America; International Relations
Bufile: 100-3-81
DBB 51452

FBI doc.
28 Feb. 1974 (NY)
RE: World Peace Council
DBD 69841

FBI cable
11 Oct 1974 (NY)
RE: Communist Party, USA, International Relations
DBD 81515

FBI doc. 18
18 Oct. 1974 (Chicago)
RE: World Peace Council
Bufile: 100-41972
DBD 82108


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

FBI doc.
27 Jan 69 (NY)
RE: Carl Winter, Helen Winter
DBC 41305

FBI doc.
1 Feb. 1972 (NY)
RE: Jim Beynon
Bufile: NY 100-175210
DBD 31051

FBI doc.
26
RE:Dec. 1968 (Seatlle)
RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov
DBC 39101

FBI doc.
22 April 1963 (Detroit)
RE: The United States Festival Committee, Inc.
Bufile: 100-436225
DBA 39107

FBI doc.
24 Jan. 1969 (NY)
RE: Boris Mikhaylovich Orekhov, Galina Sergeyevna Orekhova
DBC-41307

FBI doc.
24 June 1966 (Wash.)
RE: Communist Party, United States of America; International Relations
Bufile: 100-3-81
DBB 51452

FBI doc.
28 Feb. 1974 (NY)
RE: World Peace Council
DBD 69841

FBI cable
11 Oct 1974 (NY)
RE: Communist Party, USA, International Relations
DBD 81515

FBI doc.
18 Oct. 1974 (Chicago)
RE: World Peace Council
Bufile: 100-41972
DBD 82108


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

FBI doc.
20 Aug. 1975 (NY)
RE: International Conference of Solidarity with the
Independence of Puerto Rico, Havana, Cuba, September, 1975
DBD 90674

FBI doc.
26 April 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Michele Allison Winter
Field office file: 100-21782
DBA 1530

FBI doc.
16 Feb. 1971 (NY)
RE: Communist Party, USA, International Relations
Bufile: 100-3-81
DBD 5593

FBI doc.
2 Feb. 1971 (NY)
RE: Communist Party, USA, INternational Relations
Bufile: 100-3-81
DBD 4464

Winter


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

# EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

|                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION            |
| ----------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DATE OF DOC.                       |
| FBI/DBD-97891     | 06 JL 76                           |
| DOC, SUBJECT      | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| HELEN MARY WINTER | 201-0289246                        |
|                   |                                    |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM  | SOURCE INFORMATION                 |
|                   | DATE OF INFO.                      |
|                   | EVALUATION                         |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution. Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)

![Signature]

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED
SECTION BY TS#768033 CL

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

| SUBJECT OF 201 (Last. First. Middle) |                           |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------- |
| WINTER, HELEN MARY                   | 201-0289246               |
| FORM 12.72 867                       | E-2, IMPDET CL BY: 007622 |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET
(When Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| FBI/DBD-97886     | DATE OF DOC. 15 JUN 76  | 201-0289246                        |
| DOC. SUBJECT      | SOURCE INFORMATION      | EVALLATION                         |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM  | DATE OF INFO.           |                                    |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution. Dissem. No.. etc - if applicable)

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED
SECTION L: TS#210307

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

| SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle) |              |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------ |
| WINTER, HELEN MARY                   | 201- 0289246 |

FORM 867 USE
12-72 PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

* SECRET

E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET
(When Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

|                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                                        |
| ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| DOC. SYMPOL & NO. | DATE OF DOC.                FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| FBI/DBD-91238     | 08 September 1975           201-289246                         |
| DOC. SUBJECT      |                                                                |
| HELEN MARY WINTER |                                                                |
| SOURCE CRYPTOM    | SOURCE INFORMATION                                             |
|                   | DATE OF INFO.               EVALUATION                         |
|                   |                                                                |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc distribution. Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
CRET CONTROL
TS# 208557

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last. First, widdle)
WINTER, HELEN MARY   201-289246

FORM 867 OBSOLETE
8-60 PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET

GROCT 1
(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET
(When Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION DATE OF DOC. | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| ----------------- | ------------------------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
| FLI/ULD-01429     | 10 Apr. 73                           | 201-289246                         |
| DOC. SUBJECT      |                                      |                                    |
| HELEN MARY WINTER |                                      |                                    |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM  | SOURCE INFORMATION DATE OF INFO.     | EVALUATION                         |
|                   |                                      |                                    |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissem. No., etc. - if applicable)

TS# 207019

DRD

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

| SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle) |             |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------- |
| WINTER, HELEN MARY                   | 201- 289246 |

FORM 867
USE PREVIOUS
12-72 EDITION

SECRET

E-2, IMPDET CL. BY: 007622

(7-48)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

# EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

| DOC. SYMBOL & NO.  | DATE OF DOC.  | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| ------------------ | ------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| FL1/UU-0/430       | 27 Apr. 75    | 201-289246              |                                    |
| DOC. SUBJECT       |               |                         |                                    |
| HELLEN MARY WINTER |               |                         |                                    |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM   | DATE OF INFO. | SOURCE INFORMATION      | EVALUATION                         |
|                    |               |                         |                                    |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED IN THE TOP SECRET CONTROL
SECTION BY TS-207828

Also

DBD-87447 TS-207886 DRD'E
DBD-93319 TS-203391 Dreie

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First. Middle)
WINTER, HELEN MARY

| FORM 12-72 867 |     |
| -------------- | --- |

SECRET

E-2. IMPDET CL BY: C07622
(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET
(When Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

|                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                                    |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DATE OF DOC.            | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| FBI/DBD-95432     | 03 MAR 76               | 201-0289246                        |
| DOC. SUBJECT      |                         |                                    |
| HELEN MARY WINTER |                         |                                    |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM  | SOURCE INFORMATION      |                                    |
|                   | DATE OF INFO.           | EVALUATION                         |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution. Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED IN THE TOP SECRET CONTROL
SECTION BY TS# 208998


Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle)
WINTER, HELEN MARY 201-0289246

| FORM 12-72 867 | USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS | SECRET | E-2, IMPDET CL BY: 007622 | (7-46) |
| -------------- | --------------------- | ------ | ------------------------- | ------ |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SECRET
(When Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

|                   |                         |                                    |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                                    |
| FBI/DBD-93305     | DATE OF DOC.            | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
|                   | 13 February 1976        | 201-289246                         |
| DOC. SUBJECT      |                         |                                    |
| HELEN MARY WINTER |                         |                                    |

|                  |                    |            |
| ---------------- | ------------------ | ---------- |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM | SOURCE INFORMATION |            |
|                  | DATE OF INFO.      | EVALUATION |
|                  |                    |            |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite dac distribution. Dissen. No., etc. if applicable)

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED IN THE TOP SECRET CONTROL
SECTION BY -------- TS# 208972 --------

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

|                                      |             |
| ------------------------------------ | ----------- |
| SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle) |             |
| WINTER, HELEN MARY                   | 201- 289246 |

FORM
12-72 867
USE
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET

E-2, IMPDET CL BY: 007622

(7-46)

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

HENRY WINSTON

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO. 201-006987

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. FB1/900-80203 4. DATE 26 Sep 74

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 8. DATE OF INFO. 9.

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

THIS REFER TO A TOP SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED IN THE TOP SECRET CONTROL
SECTION BY ---TS-206249---

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 201-289 246

FORM 9-57 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DUSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES AFE CAUTIONED THAT THE COCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPOFED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0269246
SFX F
200-004-208/04
DPD-69841
28 FER 74
FBI
PG

MAR U.S. DELEGATION TO WORLD CONGRESS OF PEACE
FORCES, MOSCOW, USSR, 25-31 OCT 73, SPONSORED
BY WPC.

DATE 27 MAP 74

09086070

201.289246

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE PEQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0289246
SEX M
100-009-022
DBD-90674
20 AUG 75
FBI
P2

FROM THE POLITICAL COMMISSION OF THE CP-USA
MBR DELEGATION U.S. SUPPORT COMM. FOR THE IN-
DEPENDENCE CONF IN SOLIDARITY WITHE INDEPEN-
DENCE OF PUERTO RICO

DATE 12 SEP 75
09327216

201-0289246

SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0289246
SEX F
201-0850469
080-75231
31 MAY 74
FBI

SECY OF INTERNATL AFFAIRS CPUSA INQUIRES RE
SONDRA SANDY PATRINOS IF SHE INTERESTED IN THE
TRIP TO MONGOLIA

DATE 27 JUN 74
09136546

201-289246

SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SFCRFT

CO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUPJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM 1P/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0289246
SEX F
100-004-123
080-74602
13 JUN 74
FRI

MAR OF POLITICAL COMMITTEE AND CHAIRMAN OF THE
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE CPUSA.
MBR OF A DELEGATION FROM CP USA WHO VISITED
MOSCOW TO ENGAGE IN DISCUSSION W/LEADERSHIP
CPSU DURING PERIOD 4-10 MAY 74

DATE 23 JUL 74
09144083

201-0289246

SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCJ-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0289246
SEX F
200-C04-203/04
032-32103
18 OCT 74
F31
P2

DISCUSSED QUESTION OF CHIL AND USA GOVM
INVOLVEMENT

DATE 22 NOV 74

09210285

201-289246

SECRET E2.IMPDET.CL BY 054979..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARF CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0289246
SEX F
CIT USA

201-0006887
DRD-78208
06 SEP 74
FBI

SCHEDULED TO DEPART ER NY 01 MAY 74 DESTINED
FOR MOSCOW VIA AEROFLOT TOGETHER WITH FERN
AND HENRY WINSTON /201-0006887/ AND JAMES
JACKSON /201-0011793/

DATE 04 NOV 74

09199669

201-289246

SECRET F2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUー
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM IP/FILES.

WINTER, HELEN
201-0289246
SEX F
201-0133419
DBD-81515
10 OCT 74
FBI

OBSERVED ENTERING PREMISES OF POLD UN MISSION
NYC. MBRS OF CPUSA

DATE 24 OCT 74 09195351

201-289246

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

X-REF. SHEET S-F-C-R-E-T DATE 26/10/74

| X-REF       | SYM3 NUMBER | DOC. DAIE | DOG FILED IN |
| ----------- | ----------- | --------- | ------------ |
| 201-0289246 | DBD-80203   | 26 SEP 74 | 201-0006887  |

THE ABOVE DOCUMENT(S) ARE CROSS REFERENCED TO THE 201 FILE CITED UNDER LEFT MARGIN. FOR INFORMATION CONCERNING THE LOCATION OF THE FILE CONTAINING THE RECORD COPY DOCUMENT, CALL FILES SECTION, EXTENSION 4127.

S-E-C-R-E-T E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979

FILE IN 201-0289246


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

FBI document
10 May 1974 (NY)
Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document
18 July 1974 (NY)
Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document
15 May 1974 (NY)
Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document
19 Nov. 1973 (NY)
Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document
22 Aug. 1973 (NY)
Subject: Tour of Union Of Soviet Socialist Republics by
Representatives of Central Committee, Communist Party, USA,
July 13 - Aug. 12, 1973


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

FBI document
30 March 1973 (NY)
Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufale: 100-423449

FBI document
23 March 1973 (NY)
Subject: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449

FBI document
10 January 1973 (NY)
Subject: Gus Hall, aka/ Helen Mary Winter, aka
Bufiles: 61-8077 and 100-433449

FBI document
20 December 1972
Subject: Gus Hall, aka; Helen Mary Winter, aka
Bufile: 61-8077 and 100-423499

FBI document
15 June 1972 (NY)
Subject: Helen Winter
Bufile: 100-423449


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# SECRET

(When Filled in)

# EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DATE OF DOC. | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| ----------------- | ------------ | ---------------------------------- |
|                   |              |                                    |

DOC. SUBJECT

SOURCE INFORMATION

| SOURCE CRYPTONYM | DATE OF INFO. | EVALUATION |
| ---------------- | ------------- | ---------- |
|                  |               |            |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)

WINTER, FELEN
201-239246
SEX F CCE ?
103-004-124
DBD-31051
C1 FEB 72
FBI
CIT ?
OCC ?
MET WITH JIM BEYNON, CANACA, NGV 71

R 7202281340

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File-No. In-WhichThis-
Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last. First, Middle)

201-289246


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2. RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE
5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED
7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION
10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.
14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN 200-004-324
201-289246 DBD-04464
SEX M DOB ? 02 FEB 71
CIT? FBI
OCC?
CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA LITERATURE COMMISSION
VENEZUELA TO ATTENDED THE IV PARTY CONGRESS

R 7102160350

FILE IN 201-289246

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATC

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 7. SOURCE CRYPTOMYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN 200-004-324
201-289246 DBD-05593
SEX F DOB ? 16 FEB 71
CIT? FBI
OCC ?
HAD DEPARTED USA 21 JAN 71 FOR VENEZUELA TO
ATTEND THE IV PARTY CONGRESS AS DELEGATES OF
CP USA

R 7103030740

FILE IN 201-289246

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM
8-67 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET (7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

FBI Doc.
17 Sept. 1970 (Wash.)
RE; Communist Party, USA Contacts with Communist Parties of
Venezuela, Colombia, and Peru
(NOFORN, NO DISSEM ABROAD)
DBC-93754

FBI DOC.
14 May 1970 (Wash.)
RE: Comtacts Between Communist Party, USA and Communist Party
of Venezuela
DBC 82704

FBI Doc.
24 June 198669 (NY)
RE: Helen Winter
Bufile: 100-423449)
DBC 54933

FBI doc.
20 May 1969 (NY)
RE: Heler. Winter
Bufile : 100-423449
DBC 52075

FRL&600&


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

FBI doc.
10 Jan. 69 ZNY)
RE: Carl Winter, Helen Winter
DBC 39844


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION               |                                |                  |               |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------- | ------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                        |                                |                  |               |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                        |                  |               |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                     | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM            | 8. DATE OF INFO. | 9. EVALUAT10% |
|                                 |                                       | 10. DISSEMINATED IN            | 11. DATE         |               |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                  | 13. TRANSFERRED ۲۵ RI FILE NO. |                  |               |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION:

WINTER, HELEN
201-289246
SEX F D00 ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
201-760835
DBC-41305
27 JAN 69
FBI

HAD RETURNED FROM A TRIP AND ARRIVED FOR
WORK AT COMMUNIST PARTY, UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA /CP, USA/ HEADQUARTERS ON JAN 27,
69

R 6902051315

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-289246.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

DATE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM

DATE OF INFO.

EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

DISSEMINATED IN

DATE

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN
201-289746
SEX F DOH ?

201-752914
DBC -41307
24 JAN 69
FBI
P4

CIT ?
OCC ?
SEC ORGANIZATION COMMISSION, CP, USA.
MBR NATIONAL COMMITTEE, CP USA ON TRIP
7 DEC 68 TO CONNECTICUT W/HUSBAND CARL
WINTER /201-760835/, B. M. OREKHOV
/201-752914/ AND WIFE GALINA SERGEYEVNA

R 6902061627

FILE IN 201-289246

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH DE SOURCE DOC. SVWBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPT 8. DATE OF SHFO. D. EVALUATION

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERDEG TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN 201-752914
201-289246 DBC-39101
SEX M DOB ? 26 DEC 68
CIT USA FBI
OCC ?
SECRETARY OF THE ORGANIZATION COMMISSION,
CPUSA, ALSO A MBR OF THE NATIONAL COMMIT-
TEE, CPUSA
IN CONTACT WITH BORIS M. OREKHOV, 201-752914

R 5901141020

FILE IN 201-289246

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

FBI doc.
18 April 1967 (Wash.)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
BUfile: (SC) 100-423449
DBB 77957

FBI doc.
8 Nov. 1960
RE: Helen Mary Winter
DBF 62099

FBI doc.
26 July 1967 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
ABB 88376

FBI doc.
2 June 1967 (NY)
RE; Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 81991

FBI doc.
23 May 1967 (Seattle)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: &hilad Field Office 100-17363
DBB 81995

FBI doc.
27 April 1967 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 78966

FBI doc.
18 April 1967 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 78724

FBI doc
18 Jan. 1967 (NY)
RE? Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77690


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                       |                                                    |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                                |                                                    |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE |                                                    |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                             | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
|                                 |                                               | 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE                       |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                          |                                                    |
|                                 | 13. TRANSFERRED TO VI FILE NO.                |                                                    |
| 14.                             | PERTINENT INFORMATION                         |                                                    |

WINTER, FELEN
201-285246
SEX F CCO ?

CIT USA
CCC ?
< USA, NEW YORK, NEW VCRK
CCPMUNIST PARTY FLACTIONARY WHO CRKS IN
MATICAAL OFFICE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

100-C04-121
CBB -51452
24 JUN 66
FBI

R 6607180197

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-299246

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET (7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

4. DATE

5. SOURCE (CRYPTONYM)

8. DATE OF INFO.

9. EVALUATION

ANALYST

8. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN
201-289246
SEX F DOB ?
201-762338
DOB -51958
20 JUN 66
CIT USA
FBI
OCC CP OFFICIAL
P2
< USA
ELECTED TO NATL COMM CPUSA DEC 59 IN
CHARGE OF CP SCHOOL IN MARXIST TRAINING
IN NEW YORK CITY, MAR 66.

R 6607122280

FILE IN 201-289246

19. 
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM
867 *** PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

(7-60)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

FBI doc.
6 July 1966 (Seattle)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Field office file: SE 100-17363
DBB 77913

FBI doc
21 Jan. 1966 (NY)
RE; Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77914

FBI doc.
26 Oct. 1965 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-223449
DEB 77915

FBI doc.
30 July 1965 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77916

FBI doc.
5 May 1965 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77917

FBI doc.
12 Feb. 1965 (NY)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77918

FBI doc.
20 Nov. 1964 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter, nee Wagenknecht
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77919


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

FBI doc.

20 August 1964 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77920

FBI doc.

25 Feb. 1964 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77921

FBI doc.

17 May 1962 (Detroit)
RE: Comgress of Canadian Women, Information Concerning
DBA 10048


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

THE UNITED STATES FESTIVAL COMMITTEE,
INCORPORATED (EIGHTH WOFLD YOUTH FESTIVAL

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO. 200 004 236 €1
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. IBA-39107
4. DATE 22 AFF 63
5. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 201-280246

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN (201-289246)

DE T-2 ADVISED DURING SEPTEMBER, 1962, THAT ON SEPTEMBER 15, 1962, CARL AND HELEN WINTER HELD A BUFFET SUPPER OPENHOUSE AT THEIR RESIDENCE, 9555 BUFFETT, PETROIT, IN HONOR OF THEIR DAUGHTER, MICHELE WINTER, UPON HER RETURN FROM THE EIGHIN WORLD YOUTH FESTIVAL.

DE T-3 ADVISED ON MARCH 18, 1963, THAT CARL WINTER WAS THE STATE CHAIFMAN OF THE MOCP
DE T-1, ON MARCH 20, 1963, ADVISED THAT HELEN WINTER WAS CUFRENT MEMBER OF THE YOUTH CLUB OF THE MDCP.

DE T-2 STATED THAT AT THE OFENHOUSE MICHELE WINTER GAVE A TALK AND TOLD OF VISITING SOCIALIST CITIES, SCHOOLS, FACTOFIES, HOUSING, AND TRANSPORTATION. SHE TOLD OF VISITING LENINGPAD, VOLGAGFAD, MOSCOW, AND EAST GERMANY.

MICHELE EXHIBITED SOUVENIRS WHICH SHE BROUGHT BACK, AMONG THEM THE FED FLAG AND THE EAST GERMAN FLAG. MICHELE SAID SHE HAD MOST OF HER SOUVENIFS SENT BACK FROM THE COUNTRIES FROM WHERE CHE ACQUIRED THEN AND CAFRIED HER LITERATURE IN THE BOTTOM OF HER BAG, WHICH HAD A SHOULDER STFAP. SHE SAID THIS WAY SHE HAD NO TROUBLE WITH CUSTOMS AND IMPORT AUTHORITIES IN THE DIFFERENT COUNTRIES.

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-289246

FORM 867

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

FBI doc.
30 1.ον. 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBF 96370

FBI doc.
24 Aug. 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
BBB 77922

FBI doc.
21 June 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBF 81488

FB&&&&&&&
L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

SECRET
(When Filed In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

MICHELE ALLISON WINTER

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

100

004

134

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

DBA-01530

4. DATE

26 APR 61

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

201-289246

13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

WINTER, HELEN (201-289246) SUBJ. WAS BORN 6/25/24. AT LOS ANGELES, CALIF., RESIDES AT 9556 BURNETTE, DETROIT. SUBJ.'S PARENTS ARE CARL AND HELEN WINTER, BOTH MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL COMMITTEE. CP, USA. INFORMANT ADVISED DURING 4/61, THAT SUBJ. IS NOT A MEMBER OF THE CP. SUBJ. WAS REPORTED AS AN ASSOCIATE EDITOR OF "NEW HORIZONS". SUBJ. ATTENDED CLASERS IN MARXISH INSTRUCTED BY CP MEMBERS. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES SET FORTH. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMANTS CONTACTED DURING 4/61, COULD FURNISH NO ADDITIONAL SUBVERSIVE INFORMATION. SUBJ. IS A FRESHMAN AT WAYNE STATE UNIVERSITY, DETROIT.

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201-289246

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

FBI doc.
24 Jan. 1961 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter, nee Wagenknecht, et al.
DBF 67557

FBI doc.
6 Sept. 1960 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-423449
DBB 77923

FBI doc.
3 June 1960 (Detroit)
RE: Helen Mary Winter
Bufile: 100-6423449
DBB&28984 DBB 77924


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTE: Consult the 201 Control System Reference Manual
before completing this form. Form must be typed or
printed in block letters.

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: PID/201 Section

FROM:

DATE:

1. ACTION
   OPEN / AMEND CLOSE
   ROOM NO. / PHONE

CHECK 2-4 FOR 201 2. EXCLUDE TRUE NAME FROM MACHINE LIST 3. RESTRICTED 4. PERMANENT CHARGE
REQUEST. DO NOT CHECK
FOR IDN.
YES NO YES YES NO
5. 201 NO. IDN NO. 6. SOURCE DOCUMENT DATE

7. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) 8. SEX 9. PHOTO
   M F YES NO
   NAME VARIANT VARIATIONS IN BIO. DATA
10. TYPE (Last) (First) (Middle)

11. DATE OF BIRTH 12. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 13. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH 14. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE 15. CITIZENSHIP

16. AFFILIATION CODE 17. ADDITIONAL CODES - P B PATTERN ONLY
    P B PATTERN ONLY

18. ORGANIZATIONAL OR GROUP AFFILIATION (Clear text)

19. ORG/GROUP CODE

20. OCCUPATION/POSITION (Clear text)

21. OCC/POS ABBREVIATION

22. ACTION DESK 23. CODE 24. SECONDARY DESK 25. CODE

26. CRYPTONYM 27. PSEUDONYM

28. COMMENTS
    Wife of CARl. Winter, head of the michigan Districl.
    The Communist Party, USA, in early 60,

29. SIGNATURE 30. IDN- 201- 79-26

FORM 831 OBSOLETE
6-60 TEST PREVIOUS
KOITIONS.
SECRET
(38)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)