# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

## JUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Robert R. Kierce
Chief
Special Security Unit, DDO

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

EXTENSION NO.

1015

DATE

14 June 1976

DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. C/EAB/SSD

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
> ![Priority stamp on document]

FORM
3-62 610 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

14 JUN 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, External Activities Branch, SSD
SUBJECT : Manuscript by David Phillips

1. The following passages are a compilation of observations made by the SSU regarding Mr. Phillips' manuscript. The comments are by no means a total list of reservations concerning the submitted chapters but those noted from the perspective of the SSU.

2. In general the undersigned felt somewhat enlightened but rather uncomfortable in reading the submitted manuscript. This uneasy feeling appears to be based upon two impressions. Throughout the text, there is an obvious effort on the part of Mr. Phillips to "set the record straight" with regard to events, techniques and activities involving the CIA. Regrettably, as is often the case when one attempts to clarify and present the real facts, there is a possibility of further compounding a confused and ambiguous circumstance. Because of the various ramifications of the activities of the Agency, the SSU gained the feeling that more was lost rather than won in Mr. Phillips' efforts. The second disarming impression is that because an individual has proved to be an effective and successful CIA operations officer, there is no clear-cut assurance that he can achieve the same success as an author. The SSU was continually pained by Mr. Phillips' efforts to employ certain techniques often seen in spy fictions. The problem with author Phillips is that he is not writing fiction and has been identified as a former CIA employee with over 25 years in intelligence service. Although Mr. Phillips labored to introduce some humor into his manuscript, some of his anecdotes appear to be in bad taste.

3. The following comments are codified to complement those parts of the manuscript reviewed in this reading.

Epilogue

Page 6: Although Mr. Phillips makes a considerable effort to conceal the true identity of "Abe", there is a question as to whether the fact that two cables were sent from Headquarters to Chile in May 1973, and if this manuscript is the proper vehicle to surface such information.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

Page 13: Mr. Colby is quoted by the author indicating certain information revealing complications between Mr. Colby and Dr. Kissinger. In addition to breaching personal confidences, the author contradicts what he had indicated earlier to be an intent to permit Mr. Colby to speak for himself.

Page 14-18: Mr. Phillips again refers to "Abe" and his evaluations of the various congressional select committees investigating the CIA. In effect these comments are suggestive of Agency judgments and evaluation regarding the conduct and success of the investigative efforts as well as other personalities critical of the Agency.

## Chapter 3

Page 5: Have the circumstances regarding Mr. Wisner's death ever been surfaced with such particulars as provided in this text?

Page 14: The information regarding the "laundering of money" as set forth in the first paragraphs of this page serves as a confirmation of official involvement in such activities. This should be deleted.

Page 21: There is a serious question raised regarding the author connecting Ernest Hemmingway and the Havana Chief of Station implying the prospect of a professional as well as personal affiliation.

Page 48: If it is in fact correct, has it ever been officially acknowledged that a U.S. citizen, a businessman in Havana, implied by the author as being a CIA agent was executed? Note: This chapter is replete with a profusion of illustrations of tradecraft and operational activities too numerous to set forth.

## Chapter 5

Page 1: Mr. Phillips in his writing provides a historical chronology of senior assignments within the Agency with particular reference to the LA or WH Division. This is illustrated on this page in his reference to Colonel King "regaining leadership of the WH Division". Anyone interested in noting the organizational hierarchy and key personalities in the WH or LA Division during the period of Mr. Phillips' tenure with the Agency, would be aided considerably on page 2 and further as the author proceeds to identify Mr. Winston Scott as the Chief of Station Mexico.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CONFIDENTIAL

Page 3: Although it has been publicly surfaced that Mr. William F. Buckley had worked for CIA in the past, the author on this page now ties him in with Howard Hunt and Mexico City and further as an American contract agent. The best interests of the Agency are not served nor for that matter the interests of Mr. Buckley and Mr. Hunt are not served by such revelations.

Page 4-6: The SSU believes it is totally unwise to have the mission and organization of the Mexico City Station outlined as explicitly as contained in these pages.

Page 5-6: The above observation is further complicated by the author's remarks regarding operations levied against the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

Page 8: The SSU further challenges the information set forth on this page regarding the biographic details of Mr. Winston Scott's assignments in Cuba, (London), Eur Division and Mexico City.

[^1]

Page 15: The undersigned does not believe the content of the information set forth regarding the Agency's procedures associated with the purchasing of scotch liquor. He is implying things which may perhaps have been unique to that station but certainly has not been a worldwide practice. Mr. Phillips' anecdote about the prospects of the Agency printing counterfeit tax stamps and the details involved in such planning, even though perhaps presented in jest would not be viewed as such in the eyes of many individuals in the United States today.

Page 16: Because Philip Agee has revealed the secret of the camera operation in his book, is it necessary for Mr. Phillips to repeat and in effect collaborate what a diseffected employee of the Agency is purporting? From a friendly alumnus of the Agency, this serves as a verification of Agee's statements and provides a violation of sources and methods of this organization.

Page 18-19: Pursuing the aspect of sources and methods, the SSU questions the author's anecdote regarding the identif- ication and employment techniques of the material "why me". It would seem that in so far as any chemical or technical devices of this nature used by the Organization should not be surfaced in a book such as this.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CONFIDENTIAL

Page 25-27: The specifics associated with the Cuban Missle Crisis of 1962 involving former Director John McCone and others are subject to strong question as to whether they should be included in this text. Again, what is provided by Mr. Phillips in this manuscript is drawn from such personal experiences realized in his Agency duties.

Page 33-35: The SSU takes exception to the information presented regarding "walk-ins" based upon the same rationale as contained above. It also flirts with the concerns of sources and methods of this Agency.

Page 46-48: All remarks concerning technical operations such as hidden microphones, quick plants, etc, are out of order particularly with reference to the development of a microphone in the armchair. This again violates the Agency's concern regarding sources and methods.

Page 55-61: Considerable inside information is provided regarding Lee Harvey Oswald and his activities in Mexico. The SSU defers to LA Division, SE Division and OS regarding the advisability of inclusions of this material in this manuscript.

Chapter 7

Page 26: Although there is a legal basis for the serving of alcoholic beverages in the DCI dining room, is it appropriate to include such "tidbits" providing the news media with grist to conjure up stories of senior CIA executives making critical decisions following an alcoholic luncheon. This implication is synonymous with the problem of beer being available to the Secret Service when they are on assignment with the President.

Page 31: Throughout the manuscript the author in his narration confirms the fact that CIA has stations located around the world and in his writing procedes to verify the location of these stations. The comments relating to where he was assigned and where others in the Agency have been or are assigned, not only relates to the South America area but on this page the author confirms the fact that there was a CIA station in (Brazzaville.) Other than in the change in name there is no effort made to dispel the prospect that the station continues.

Page 42-44: Although it is a most timely subject, information regarding any U.S. Government effort to assassinate Castro is highly explosive. Mr. Phillips is reporting information which he has privy to as a direct result of his Agency experiences. These should not be contained in this book.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CONFIDENTIAL

Page 44: Although (Camp Peary) has unfortunately been identified as a CIA facility, is it necessary for the author to reinforce media articles regarding this establishment by spelling out the cover background and other "chapter and verse" items regarding this facility. I believe comments regarding firearms training, counterterrorism training should be avoided.

## Chapter 8

Page 7: The author's remarks concerning CIA support to the Elbrick kidnapping again is a violation of sources and methods, and should be deleted.

Pages 13-21: It is understandable but regrettable that the author continues to single out sensitive issues; i.e., assassination and in this instance CIA involvement in Chile. The information contained in these pages are volatile and should not be included in such a commercial venture. Any such information is liable for quotations out of context warping or reinforcing the involvement that the Agency did have in the political activities of Chile.

Page 25: For the first time the SSU was made aware of the daughter of a CIA officer who was stripped naked and held with a knife at her throat by political assassins. If this is in fact a true statement, I question the value of such an inclusion in this text particularly in light of the terrorism problems that this Agency and other elements of the U.S. Government are experiencing around the world.

Page 27: The statement the author makes with regard to promotion to GS-17 is not correct.

Page 31: I believe that Office of Communications should be consulted on the entire section relating to communications, communications personnel and the Office of Communications, however, the SSU raises the question concerning the inclusion of teletype decoding speeds on this particular page.

## Chapter 10

Note: Chapter 10 continues in the same vein as all of the other chapters. It further reinforces the earlier remarks that the more one tries to explain and clarify a point the more confusing it becomes. The remarks contained in pages 23 and 24 regarding Chile are illustrative of this.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

4. In summary, the SSU joins those who feel that this book would better have been left unwritten. It is a text replete with names, details, operational information and close personal privileged information based upon the author's assignments which has been rendered into a commercial version of Mr. Phillips' affiliation with this agency for over 25 years. This manuscript reinforces the difficulty of a retired operations officer to develop a non-fiction text which is attractive to the public but does not contain information regarding intelligence personalities, organization and sources and methods.

![signature]

Robert R. Kierce
Chief
Special Security Unit, DDO

CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)