2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

1. Attached is Annex A - Statements of Soviet Officials About *NOSENKO* - which is part of the summary entitled, Conclusions and Comments in the Case of Yuriy Ivanovich *NOSENKO*, (copy number 7) dated 1 October 1968. The aforementioned summary was forwarded for your review on 13 March 1978.

2. Certain portions of Annex A of this study are deleted since it contains information which bears on the security of ongoing, viable CIA operations, or is related thereto.

3. We request return of the study (copy 7) and Annex A when your review has been completed.

Attachment: As Stated Above

Declassified and Approved for Release by the Central Intelligence Agency Date: 2003

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TOP SECRET

1. Attached are the following pages of the Top Secret study entitled, *The Examination of the Bona Fides of a KGB Defector - Yuriy I. NOSENKO*, dated February 1968 (copy 10). Copy 10 of this study had been forwarded to you earlier for your review.

2. We have deleted certain portions of these pages containing information which bears on the security of ongoing, viable CIA operations, or is related thereto.

3. We request return of the study (copy 10), Annex A and Attachment when your review has been completed.

Attachment: Pages vi, vii, 20, 46, 47, 49, 50, 266, 277, 278 281, 294, 295, 297, 313, 324, 325, 326, 336 and 357

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Top Secret

CONTENTS

PAGE

VIII SEVENTH DEPARTMENT (January 1962-January 1964) (Cont.)

Deputy Chief of Seventh Department (July 1962-January 1964) 291

KGB Operations 292

Recruitment of SVENCHANSKIY 292

Investigation of SLESINGER 293

Arrest and Interrogation of KOTEN. 295

GRU Agent SHUBIN 296

Arrest of BARGHOORN 298

Investigation of OSWALD 303

Residence in USSR 303

Request to Return to USSR 305

Post-Assassination Review of KGB File 307

The CHEREPANOV Papers 309

Contents 314

NOSENKO's Travel Document 315

Return to Geneva (January-February 1964) 316

Purpose of Trip 317

Visits to KGB Legal Residency 318

Availability for Meetings with CIA 318

NOSENKO'S Written Notes 319

NOSENKO's Defection 320

The Recall Telegram 324

Knowledge of Other Seventh Department Operations 325

Operational Activities (July 1962-January 1964) 326

KGB Counterintelligence Operations Among American Tourists 326

Information Furnished the KGB by George BLAKE 327

KGB Study of American Intelligence Tourist Operations 327

NOSENKO's Information 330

Summary 331

Summary and Conclusion 331

(vi)

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

![copy]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Top Secret

CONTENTS

IX OTHER ASPECTS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMED KGB SERVICE 335

Relationship with General GRIBANOV 335

Communist Party Status 338

Knowledge of KGB Forms and Procedures 342

Awards and Decorations 345

Sourcing 349

Ranks 350

X PSYCHOLOGICAL AND PSYCHIATRIC ASSESSMENT 355

XI SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS: NOSENKO'S BONA FIDES 357

Annex A - Statements of Soviet Officials About NOSENKO 361

Annex B - Summaries of Cases Not Examined in Text 399

Index of Personalities 437


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Top Secret

(FOUNDATIONS OF NOSENKO'S CLAIMS)

Soviet Officials' Statements About NOSENKO

The portrait of NOSENKO which emerges from Soviet officials' statements about him since his defection coincides markedly with NOSENKO's self-description. According to the comments of Soviet officials, principally intelligence officers most likely to be speaking authoritatively, defector NOSENKO was the son of the deceased Minister, he served over a decade in the KGB, his personal shortcomings were overcome through the patronage of KGB General GRIBANOV, and in connection with operations against Americans he occupied positions of progressively greater trust and responsibility, ultimately becoming Deputy Chief of the largest department in the key Second (Counterintelligence) Chief Directorate. According to these sources, his defection wrought severe damage "for years to come" to the KGB because of his knowledge of KGB operations against American targets, and his treachery prompted the expulsion and disgrace of numerous senior KGB personnel, the recall of many others from abroad, the virtual suspension of KGB operations in the United States, and extraordinary plans to assassinate him.

These statements are related in chronological order in Annex A.

20

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# Top Secret

(PRE-KGB BIOGRAPHY)

Baku), where he finished the Eighth Class in spring, 1943. In a second version (more probable since entry to the Moscow Special Naval School required prior completion of the Seventh Class) NOSENKO said that when the war broke out he and his mother were evacuated to Chelyabinsk, where he completed the Seventh Class in summer of 1942. They returned to Moscow afterwards, and NOSENKO was then enrolled in the Moscow Special Naval School (then in Kuybyshev) where he completed the Eighth Class in 1943; in the fall of 1943 NOSENKO was enrolled in the Leningrad Naval Preparatory School (then in Baku).

After just six months in Baku, without completing the Ninth Class, NOSENKO ran away from school and returned to Moscow.

Comment: NOSENKO has asserted variously that he ran away and fought on the front at Tuapse, and that he had finished the Tenth Class in Baku and then spent the period 1943-1945 at the Frunze Higher Naval School, the equivalent of Annapolis. He has retracted both assertions.

NOSENKO completed the Ninth Class in June 1944 at the Moscow Mining Institute, and when the Leningrad Naval Preparatory School returned to Leningrad from Baku, he resumed his studies there. Early in 1945, however, NOSENKO received a gunshot wound in the hand, and after being hospitalized for a month, he left the Naval school.

Comment: NOSENKO has claimed both that he was shot by a jealous naval officer whom he then protected by stating that the wound was self-inflicted, and that he actually did accidently shoot himself.

a sensitive source quoted to a KGB offic the effect that NOSENKO shot himself to avoid being sent to the front while attending a naval college in 1942.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Top Secret

(PRE-KGB BIOGRAPHY)

Comment: (Continued)
After NOSENKO's defection was publicized, Soviet Naval defector ARTAMONOV volunteered to CIA that he had known the son of the Minister NOSENKO in the naval school in Leningrad from 1944 to 1946.

NOSENKO completed the Tenth Class at the Leningrad Shipbuilding Tekhnikum in June 1945, and he successfully passed the necessary examinations to qualify him for entrance to the Moscow Institute of International Relations that summer.

Birth to 1945: Summary and Conclusion

NOSENKO is virtually the sole source of information on his early life. However, this portion of his claimed biography is consistent with the NOSENKO family's whereabouts as publicized in press accounts at the time of his father's death in 1956, and with the existence of the schools he claims to have attended.

Allowing for exaggerated claims of boyhood heroics (fighting at the front, attending the Frunze Academy, and formal induction in and discharge from the Navy), all of which NOSENKO has retracted under interrogation, NOSENKO'S claimed identity as the son of Minister Ivan I. NOSENKO and the substance of his claims about his life until 1945 are accepted as true.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Top Secret

(PRE-KGB BIOGRAPHY)

NOSENKO has said at various times that the Institute course was of four years' duration and that he entered the Naval RU on graduation in 1949; that it was four years' duration and that because he failed a state examination he was graduated later, in 1950; that it was of five years' duration and he graduated in 1950, on schedule; and that it was of five years' duration but he failed an examination which delayed his graduation for three months.

Comment: See p.367 for report that NOSENKO joined the KGB upon graduation from the Institute in 1947. The duration of the Institute course and the date of NOSENKO's completion are material to the plausibility of his claimed Naval RU service, which he said followed almost immediately upon his departure from the Institute.

## Naval RU Service (ca. 1951 - ca. 1953)

NOSENKO claims that upon completion of his studies at the Institute of International Relations he entered the Naval RU, serving in the Far East and then in a Baltic post, finally successfully "transferring" to the KGB through the intervention of his father's friend, KGB General KOBULOV. A sensitive source

is the sole source also asserting that NOSENKO served in the RU. According to , NOSENKO attended this the Military-Diplomatic Academy and then served in the RU Information Department for about a year before securing a transfer to the KGB through his father's influence. NOSENKO denies having attended the Military-Diplomatic Academy and has never claimed service in the RU Information (Reports) Department, although he had on occasion claimed to have held Reports assignments.

49

# Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# Top Secret

(PRE-KGB BIOGRAPHY)

A sensitive source has quoted two KGB officers respectively, as stating NOSENKO joined the KGB in 1947 or 1949.

The significance of NOSENKO'S RU service is the fact that he claims it launched his intelligence career and served as the means through which he secured appointment to the KGB after once having been rejected. The two or more years he claimed to have served in the RU represent a significant period of his adult life for which he should have no difficulty accounting. Finally, the date of his actual transfer from the Naval RU to the KGB is critical to determining the time from which his claims about KGB service can be judged credible.

NOSENKO volunteered extensive comment on his Naval RU service at his first meetings with CIA in 1962. After his 1964 defection, it was the topic on which he made one of his initial retractions and his first admission that he had earlier made a false claim. The subject of his Naval RU service was consequently prominent in interrogations in 1964, 1965 and 1966. However, throughout these interrogations, challenges of his assertions about his RU service prompted adjustments in his claimed date of graduation from the Institute or claimed date of entry into the KGB, just as challenges on those latter topics prompted amended statements with respect to his RU service. The extent of the still-unreconciled discrepancies and contradictions in NOSENKO's various accounts is best perceived in comparison of his statements made in 1962, 1964, 1965 and 1966.

NOSENKO's Information-1962

NOSENKO finished the Institute of International Relations in 1950 and immediately reported for duty with the RU. [He did not amplify how he drew such an assignment.] In September 1950 he was offered assignments in Leningrad, Moscow, and in the Far East, and he chose the Far East "so no one would think he would take advantage of his father's position". He was assigned to a radio signals interception unit in Sovetskaya Gavan' (on the Soviet coast opposite Sakhalin), where he collected Order of Battle information by monitoring the communications of American units operating in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

> FRIPPEL was. a weak agent: "he was afraid and gave pract.1-
> cally nothing." NOSENKO said that although he had recruited
> him, "honestly speaking, FRIPPEL was not an agent." The KGE
> nevertheless hoped that FRIPPEL would be reassigned to Mos-
> cow at some future date. (See p.137 for details of the
> FRIPPEL case.)

Comment: FRIPPEL agrees with NOSENKO that they met twice
in the USSR in 1963. However, FRIPPEL asserts
he also met NOSENKO in Odessa in February 1962.
which NOSENKO flatly denies. FRIPPEL is known
to have planned to travel to the Soviet Union
at that time, and there is no apparent reason
why he would make a false claim on this matter.
According to FRIPPEL, who is now
in New York City. is a current target of the
Soviet intelligence service,

## Johannes PREISFREUND

The KGB considered PREISFREUND compromised to American
Intelligence after GOLITSYN's defection (in December 19611 and
thus unsuitable for further use against Americans at the Em-
bassy in Moscow. For this reason, NOSENKO was told to take
PREISFREUND with him when he transferred to the Seventh De-
partment.. As the agent spoke only Finnish and Russian, however,
he was of no use against English-speaking tourists. NOSENKO
met with PREISFREUND on the latter's visits to Moscow in 1962,
but did not use him in any operations.

Comment: PREISFREUND asserts that he was no longer a KGB
agent after the STORSBERG operation (see p.175)
and that although he saw NOSENKO on his frequent
return visits to Moscow, it was only because
NOSENKO sought a companion for wenching and
drinking.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

who was [erroneously] considered to be a CIA officer. SHAKHOV "maybe" had some contact with MARK in 1960 or 1961, but NOSENKO did not know the substance of it. A counterintelligence officer of the First Chief Directorate, S.M. GOLUBEV, had once been on a delegation with SHAKHOV and he had noted "little details". While SHAKHOV was in the United States, earlier, he had been terminated (as an agent) by KGB officers who had submitted a report stating that SHAKHOV liked life in the Unites States, American products, and money. In that KGB report he was depicted as "not good" and 'not wanting to work as an agent".

NOSENKO stated that SHAKHOV had served with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the United States and that during that service he acted as an agent-recruiter for the KGB. SHAKHOV was permitted to travel abroad even though suspected of being an American agent, because he belonged to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and "the KGB could do nothing about his trips abroad'. "There was no proof, only suspicions, and furthermore, SHAKHOV was a member of the personal staff of the head of the Soviet delegation, S.K. Tsarapkin." According to NOSENKO, SHAKHOV was not and never had been a KGB officer.

Comment: SHAKHOV has served in and visited the United States since 1942, when he was assigned to the Soviet Consulate General in New York. He attended the 1945 Conference on International Organization in San Francisco, and he had attended a number of sessions of the UN General Assembly. Most recently SHAKHOV was assigned to the U.S. in 1963 as a member of the Soviet Mission to the UN. KGB officer RASTVOROV 1dentified him as an MVD (KGB) officer whom he is certain he saw at MVD Headquarters in Moscow,
a sensitive source identified him as "an employee of the KGB": and KGB defectors PETROV and DERYABIN have reported that from a photograph, SHAKHOV'S face was familiar". An FBI source, however, in 1964 said that SHAKHOV was a "pure diplomat" and that to his knowledge, SHAKHOV had engaged in no Soviet intelligence activity until that time.

277

TS No. 197124

Top Secret

Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO described the various ways he had tested suspicions of SHAKHOV in Geneva. He gave SHAKHOV disinformation and then watched for an indication that he passed it on to his American contacts. SHAKHOV was told to perform countersurveillance tasks during a meeting by NOSENKO with an imaginary agent, while other KGB officers checked for signs that SHAKHOV had forewarned the Americans about the meeting. Finally NOSENKO revealed to SHAKHOV the location of a KGB dead drop and checked five days later to see whether the specially prepared materials emplaced had been disturbed in any way. NOSENKO's conclusion was that SHAKHOV was absolutely free of suspicion, and it was his intention to report this finding when he returned to KGB Headquarters from Geneva.

Comment: Currently in the United States, SHAKHOV is still "under suspicion", according to a sensitive source.

## Security Escort Officer for Soviet Disarmament Delegation

NOSENKO said that he was the sole KGB officer with the 94-man Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference and as such he was responsible for the security and behavior of the entire delegation. (KGB officers I.S. MAYOROV and M.S. TSYMBAL came with the delegation to Geneva, but they had left Geneva before NOSENKO made the foregoing statement to CIA.) To assist him in carrying out his security functions, NOSENKO had the services of a number of coopted informants of the KGB who were serving in the delegation. [NOSENKO has never reported what, if any, security checks he ran on the delegates in his charge, or what, if any, information his informants provided him.]

NOSENKO has never been precise about how he spent his days and nights in Geneva, but he has indicated that he disposed of his time as he saw fit, and for the most part had little to do. He explained in 1962 that he could come and go as he pleased because Ambassador Zorin knew who he was, as did most of the delegation. No one paid him any attention. It was known that he was not really a Ministry of Foreign Affairs officer, and he could absent himself from conference meetings at any time.

Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

## Yu.I. GUK

Implying that their friendship was of long standing, NOSENKO related in 1962 that he and GUK were together nearly every day in Geneva, where they went out to chat and have a few drinks. As a consequence, NOSENKO was granted access to the residency and was able to elicit information about some of GUK's operations in Geneva. He described his "big, big friend" GUK as the Deputy Legal Rezident in Geneva and the only "strong officer" in the residency.

Comment: In 1964 NOSENKO attributed his gaining access to the residency in 1962 to TSYMBAL, not to GUK. According to several sources (see Annex A, because of his friendship with NOSENKO, GUK was dismissed from the KGB.

## M.S. TSYMBAL

In 1962 NOSENKO reported TSYMBAL's presence in Geneva and identified him as Chief of the Illegals Directorate of the KGB First Chief Directorate. He alluded to having spoken with him, but placed no particular emphasis on their relationship.

In 1964 NOSENKO claimed that he had been dealing with TSYMBAL since 1960 or 1961, when he was looking for some candidates for recruitment and came across some whose back- ground would have made them suitable for the Special (Illegals) Directorate. NOSENKO met TSYMBAL in Moscow in the KGB Head- quarters and TSYMBAL had asked him several times to transfer to the First Chief Directorate and suggested that he might be assigned to the United States. In Geneva, he and TSYMBAL had dinner together several times a week, sometimes accompanied by KISLOV and sometimes alone. It was TSYMBAL's influence, NOSENKO said, which secured NOSENKO access to the residency in 1962 and established the precedent from which he was granted access in 1964.

281

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-1964)

## NOSENKO's Information

SLESINGER came under suspicion by the KGB First Chief Directorate because of his business transactions with a number of Soviets who visited his store and in whom he seemed to show more than casual interest. The First Chief Directorate was of the opinion that SLESINGER was trying to become closely acquainted with some Soviets, to study them. SLESINGER had visited the Soviet Union several times. Learning SLESINGER planned another trip to the USSR, the KGB suspected that "he might make some contacts or do something interesting" while visiting the Soviet Union. The KGB wanted to resolve its suspicions that SLESINGER was possibly an agent or operational contact of the FBI. The KGB had a file on SLESINGER, and a senior case officer in the American Section of the Seventh Department, Yu. M. DVORKIN, was the responsible case officer. An agent of the Seventh Department who was director of a photo- graphic shop in Moscow was instructed to become friendly with SLESINGER while the latter was visiting the Soviet Union, and the two men later exchanged correspondence. SLESINGER went to Odessa to visit relatives, and DVORKIN directed the Odessa KGB to "surround" him with agents. who could watch his behavior. If there had been any indication of intelligence activities, the KGB would have attempted. to recruit SLESINGER, but since no evidence was developed, no approach was made. SLESINGER had travelled to the Soviet Union before, several times.

Comment:

A sensitive source had reported to the FBI that the KGB suspected SLESINGER to be an FBI "plant" and that KGB officer "might be trying to develop SLESINGER to act as a courier or in some other agent capacity."

NOSENKO's information was substantially correct. Alfred Lazarevich SLESINGER, reported to the FBI in July 1962 of his June 1962 visit to Moscow and Odessa. In Odessa SLESINGER was contacted by a Soviet official who exhibited "intimate: knowledge" of his business in New York City and had asked whether SLESINGER had "ever been bothered by the FBI."

294

# Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-1964)

Comment: (Continued)
In 1966 SLESINGER reported to the FBI. that he was in touch with a Moscow photographic shop proprietor, and he described evidence of KGB interest in him during his visit to Odessa in 1962. Previous to visiting the Soviet Union in 1962, SLESINGER had been in contact with a number of Soviet officials from the United Nations.

NOSENKO was not specific in describing how he learned of SLESINGER, who may represent a First Chief Directorate case.

## (KOTEN'S) Arrest and the KGB Agent

NOSENKO was asked in Geneva in 1964 whether he was involved in the arrest of an American tourist in the USSR in the fall of 1963. Almost at once, NOSENKO identified the case as that of Bernard KOTEN, a guide for Afton Tours in New York City (and hence an employee of Alexander SVENCHANSKIY, see above) who had been arrested on homosexual charges in Kiev. NOSENKO said that KOTEN was involved with an American agent of the KGB Scientific and Technical (S&T) Directorate. NOSENKO did not know the agent's name, but from the description he provided he is believed identical with a KGB S&T agent identified earlier on the basis of a May 1962 report from a sensitive source.

## NOSENKO's Information

KOTEN was a longtime member of the American Communist Party and a frequent visitor after the Second World War to the Soviet Union, where he had extensive contacts among dissident literary figures and other Soviet citizens, particularly among Russian Jews. [NOSENKO explained in another context that the KGB is wary of foreigners' contacts with Soviet Jews because the Israeli Intelligence Service has frequently inspired such contacts.] Because of these many suspicious contacts, both the KGB First and Second Directorates had concluded that KOTEN might be a "provocation agent" planted in or recruited from the ranks of the Communist Party in the United States.

295

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO's Information

SHUBIN was a native of California of Russian extraction, a Russian speaker, and a university professor in New York City. SHUBIN, who had visited the Soviet Union twice before, visited the Soviet Union in 1958 or 1959, while NOSENKO was serving his first tour of duty in the Seventh Department. At that time, SHUBIN was the target of Seventh Department case officer A.A. VETLITSKIY, NOSENKO heard later that SHUBIN was placed under surveillance, and when the KGB surveillance observed SHUBIN as a passenger in a Ministry of Defense automobile, the GRU was asked about the American. "They very furtively said that they were interested in him," from which the KGB concluded that SHUBIN was a GRU agent.

In 1962 (sic) NOSENKO was reviewing a list of foreign visitors to the Soviet Union and he noted SHUBIN's name and recalled his earlier identification as a GRU agent. NOSENKO himself telephoned GRU General SOKOLOV'S office and informed SOKOLOV of SHUBIN's presence (or, according to another version, SOKOLOV'S office was advised by others). SOKOLOV'S office eventually apologized for having failed earlier to notify the KGB of the GRU'S interest in SHUBIN.

Comment: Earlier, identified an agent apparently identical with SHUBIN and FBI sources reported SHUBIN's travel to the USSR in summer 1961 and in September 1963.

SHUBIN had no valid U.S. passport between 1940 and June 1961; if he visited the Soviet Union during that period it was not as an American tourist under his true name. Consequently, he could not then have been the tourist target of the Seventh Department case officer, as NOSENKO claimed. If NOSENKO erred, and actually was referring to SHUBIN's visit in 1961, there is a further contradiction: NOSENKO could not have noticed his name while reviewing tourist lists in the Seventh Department, because he claims he was in the American Department at the time.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

NOSENKO went to Gorkiy on the fourth day after CHERE-
PANOV's disappearance. The area was covered with very deep
woods, "where a person could lose himself for life". On the
seventh day CHEREPANOV was located and arrested in Baku,
where he was on his way to the Iranian border.

A special plane was immediately sent to Baku, carrying
S.M. FEDOSEYEV and several other American Department offi-
cers. They brought CHEREPANOV immediately back to Moscow,
interrogating him on the plane. He immediately confessed
to having given the documents to the Americans. When asked
why, he said he was "angry at the KGB, very angry", and
besides, he thought he might ask the Americans for some
money in return for the documents. He confessed that on
4 November he had passed the documents to an American tourist
who was a librarian interested in Russian books. He said he
had given the documents to the American in the entrance
hallway in the building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
the building in which the Ministry of Foreign Trade was also
housed.

Because CHEREPANOV had eluded the KGB between the two
fixed surveillance posts which had been established, the
Second Chief Directorate suffered considerable criticism
for not putting CHEREPANOV under full, round-the-clock
surveillance. CHEREPANOV himself, however, told the KGB
that if he had detected his surveillants he would have
written to the government and newspapers a letter of protest
against "such an indignity, such persecution", and then
would have committed suicide, leaving the KGB without proof
of his guilt.

Comment: Other sources, including sensitive sources, have also reported various aspects of the
CHEREPANOV incident.

NOSENKO's assertions with respect to the
CHEREPANOV case, however, are not material to
his claim that he was Deputy Chief of the
Seventh Department at the time.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

## The Recall Telegram

NOSENKO's Information

On 3 February 1964, NOSENKO claimed, he visited the KGB Legal Residency once during the morning before he met with CIA and again that evening after 1800; there were at those times no KGB telegrams concerning him. On the morning of 4 February he again stopped in at the Residency, but there were again no such messages for him. Later in the morning of 4 February, however, after attending a session of the Disarmament Conference, he returned to the Residency and found that a telegram from KGB Headquarters had arrived, instructing him to return to Moscow immediately to participate in the KGB conference on tourism. After relating the substance of the telegram, NOSENKO defected and was thenceforth in CIA custody.

Comment: Special Intelligence does not confirm NOSENKO'S assertion regarding the existence of the recall telegram. According to Special Intelligence, there were enciphered communications from Moscow to the Soviet Mission in Geneva earlier and later, but there was none from 1815 on 3 February until 1730 on 4 February, several hours after NOSENKO was in custody of CIA.

324

Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# Top Secret

(SEVENTII DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

## NOSENKO'S Eventual Retraction Regarding Recall Telegram

NOSENKO maintained throughout his interrogations in 1964 and 1965 that there was the recall telegram and that it prompted his defection. In October 1966, however, while being questioned again, NOSENKO stated that there had been no telegram recalling him to Moscow from Geneva, and he signed the following statement:

"On 4 February 1964, I told my CIA contact in Geneva that a telegram from Headquarters in Moscow had been received in the KGB Residency in Geneva recalling me immediately to Moscow. I said at the time that this telegram said that I was recalled to participate in a conference to plan KGB activity against tourists for the 1964 season. I maintained this story as fact throughout subsequent interviews and interrogations by American authorities in 1964 and 1965. No such telegram ever existed. No telegram was received in Geneva. I admit that the story was a lie. I myself invented this telegram in order to hasten my defection. I was nervous and afraid that my contacts with American Intelligence might be noticed."

## Knowledge of Other Seventh Department Operations

The notes NOSENKO brought to CIA in Geneva in 1964 (see p.319) included brief reference to thirteen other KGB operations conducted against what NOSENKO described as tourists during the 1962-1963 period. For reasons cited in the description of these operations in Annex B, these operations are not material to NOSENKO's claim to service in 1962-1963 as either Chief of the American-British Commonwealth Section or as Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# Top Secret

(SEVENTH DEPARTMENT - January 1962-January 1964)

Operational Activities - July 1962-January 1964: Summary

To substantiate his claims to having served as Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department during this period, NOSENKO describes KGB involvement in the recruitment of (SVENCHANSKIY) the arrests of KOTEN and BARGHOORN, and the investigations of SLESINGER, OSWALD, and of former KGB officer CHEREPANOV, his discovery that SHUBIN was a GRU agent, and his assignment to Geneva. Even if NOSENKO learned of the operations as he described and they were as he described (there are substantial reasons why they might have been conducted by KGB elements other than the Seventh Department), they are atypical with respect to NOSENKO's own description of Seventh Department operations. They do not accurately characterize, as NOSENKO claims, KGB counterintelligence operations against tourists, and thus do not substantiate his Seventh Department service. NOSENKO's explanations for his assignment to Geneva in 1964 are no more plausible than for his earlier assignment there in 1962. NOSENKO has asserted that he was not a lieutenant colonel as the temporary duty authorization indicated, but a captain, a rank incongruous with a Deputy Chief of Department and one from which he presumably would have been promoted as he assumed the senior KGB positions which he claimed to have held.

KGB Counterintelligence Operations
Among American Tourists
1962-1963

Because of his position as a Deputy Chief, then First Deputy Chief of the Seventh Department, NOSENKO claimed awareness of what the KGB posture was with respect to

326

Top Secret

![TS No. 197124 Copy]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# Top Secret

(OTHER ASPECTS OF NOSENKO'S KGB CAREER)

## Other Sources - 1964 and 1965

As indicated in Annex A, a sensitive source reported several items of information he stated he obtained from various KGB colleagues. According to these reports, GRIBANOV was expelled from the KGB as a consequence of NOSENKO'S defection, it was rumored that GRIBANOV was to be fired because he had been NOSENKO's friend and patron, that GRIBANOV was held responsible for the defection of his protege, that GRIBANOV had approved NOSENKO's assignment to Geneva in 1964 despite knowledge of facts making NOSENKO ineligible, that GRIBANOV was a long-time friend of NOSENKO'S father, that NOSENKO had been a deputy to a Department Chief despite his junior rank because of GRIBANOV's influence, and that GRIBANOV was dismissed from the KGB and Party because he willfully withheld information about NOSENKO'S procuring women for parties which he and the General arranged.

## NOSENKO's Information - Post 1964

Immediately following his defection NOSENKO continued to refer to this special and personal relationship, which touched on nearly every aspect of NOSENKO's KGB service. Under interrogation, however, NOSENKO could not sustain this claim. The extent NOSENKO's statements were retracted or contradicted with respect to GRIBANOV or contradicted by other evidence, is seen from the following examples excerpted from the earlier chronological examination: GRIBANOV wrote the very best fitness report on NOSENKO that could be given (Retracted. GRIBANOV wrote none of NOSENKO's fitness reports); NOSENKO and GRIBANOV carroused together with women provided by NOSENKO (Retracted. NOSENKO recalled only two occasions, and could relate only one in any detail.); recruited Edward SMITH (see p. 37) together with NOSENKO (Retracted. NOSENKO played no active role in SMITH recruitment attempt and was not in Embassy Section at time.); NOSENKO accompanied GRIBANOV to diplomatic receptions in 1961 at which the latter learned that French Ambassador DeJean was GRIBANOV's agent (Retracted. NOSENKO accompanied


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# Top Secret

SUMMARY OF CONCLUSIONS
CONCERNING NOSENKO'S BONA FIDES

NOSENKO claims that he served for a decade in the KGB in successively senior positions of authority from which he derived extensive knowledge of the scope, character, and results of KGB operations against Americans in the Soviet Union in the period 1953-1963. To substantiate his claim, he provides an impressive array of information about KGB personnel, organization and operations which, to the extent that it has been confirmed, is presumptive evidence of his bona fides. Various Soviet officials, including intelligence officers, have generally corroborated NOSENKO'S claims. According to some of these sources, NOSENKO was a senior KGB officer who occupied a series of sensitive positions, who enjoyed considerable authority and trust despite personal shortcomings, and whose defection, "the greatest loss ever suffered by Soviet Intelligence", paralyzed the work of KGB

The examination has compared each element of NOSENKO'S biography relevant to his claimed KGB service with known facts and reasonable surmise. The examination reflects the test to which his accounts were put: whether his accounts are internally coherent and consistent with known fact, and whether he actually gained the information he has from occupying the KGB positions he claims to have held. In short, is he what he says he is, according to his own accounts?


Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

13-00000

TOP SECRET

1.  Attached is Annex A of the Top Secret study entitled, *The Examination of the Bona Fides of a KGB Defector - Yuriy I. NOSENKO* dated February 1968 (copy 10). Copy 10 of this study had been forwarded to you earlier for your review.

2.  Certain portions of Annex A of this study are deleted since it contains information which bears on the security of ongoing, viable CIA operations, or is related thereto.

3.  We request return of the study (copy 10) and Annex A when your review has been completed.

Attachment: As Stated Above

WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011340

TOP SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

Top Secret

Annex A

Statements of Soviet Officials About NOSENKO

4 February 1964

NOSENKO defected in Geneva.

6 February 1964

The Chief of the Soviet Disarmament Delegation notified the Soviet Ambassador in Bern shortly before noon that NOSENKO had disappeared, correctly placing the date as 4 February. They speculated privately between themselves that he might have been "poisoned" or injured in an auto- mobile accident.

8 February 1964

An official spokesman of the Soviet Mission in Geneva reported to the Swiss police that NOSENKO, an "expert temporarily assigned to Geneva", had been missing for four days.

9 February 1964

Evening news broadcasts in Geneva carried reports attributed to both Soviet and Swiss sources that NOSENKO had disappeared.

10 February 1964

The Swiss press quoted unidentified Soviet sources as saying it was presumed that NOSENKO had defected.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Top Secret

(Annex A)

10 February 1964 (continued)

A U.S. Department of State press release was issued identifying NOSENKO as KGB officer and acknowledging his request for political asylum in the United States.

According to a sensitive source, Because of his long tenure in the KGB, NOSENKO would have a great deal of important information which he could impart to intelligence agencies of other countries. Certainly, he would be acquainted with many KGB employees and could identify them. He also would be intimately acquainted with a large number of Soviet agents working inside the USSR against American and British nationals.

According to a sensitive source,

The bulk of NOSENKO's knowledge concerning KGB activities would revolve around the intelligence operations of the KGB in Moscow and also KGB personalities working in lleadquarters. NOSENKO was also undoubtedly familiar with all KCB personalities in Geneva and certainly knew some KGB personalities in other countries.

Comment: NOSENKO identified a number of KGB officers in Geneva; he asserted that some others, known by CIA to be connected with the KGB, were not.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# Top Secret

(Annex A)

10 February 1964 (continued)

According to a sensitive source

NOSENKO was affiliated with the KGB for approximately sixteen years, since about 1947, and was an employee of the Second Chief Directorate in Moscow. His father, now dead, was a Deputy to the Prime Minister of the Soviet Union and also Minister of the Shipbuilding Industry. There is a shipyard named after NOSENKO's father in the Ukraine.

Comment: NOSENKO claims to have served in the GRU until 1953, when he entered the KGB.

According to a sensitive source,

It appeared quite certain to several KGS officers that NOSENKO had the rank of lieutenant colonel in the KGB.

Comment: NOSENKO was at the time claiming to have been a KGB lieutenant colonel.

According to a sensitive source, from KGB officers

The photograph which appeared in U.S. newspapers is not that of NOSENKO. One worked with NOSENKO for several years in KGB Headquarters; he described NOSENKO as a person who likes to be fashionably dressed at all times and is fond of women, by nature a friendly individual and generally well-liked by his fellow workers. NOSENKO worked in the Second Chief Directorate.

363

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

Top Secret

(Annex A)

10 February 1964 (continued)

Comment:

The photograph accompanying American and Swiss press accounts of NOSENKO's defection was by error not that of NOSENKO but of Vladimir SHUSTOV, whom and NOSENKO both identified as a "clean" Soviet diplomat at the Geneva Disarmament Conference.

Noting the publicity accompanying the defection of KGB officer NOSENKO in Switzerland, GOLITSYN recalled that NOSENKO had been a Second Chief Directorate officer working against American citizens.

Comment: Routinely, GOLITSYN had reviewed in March 1962 (before NOSENKO contacted CIA) a list of Soviet delegates to the Disarmament Conference. NOSENKO'S name, which was on the list, did not at that time prompt any comment from GOLITSYN.

11 February 1964

Ambassador DOBRYNIN informally notified the Department of State that a Soviet note would be delivered later to ask how NOSENKO had left Switzerland, to request his release, and to demand an immediate interview with him.

12 February 1964

S.K. TSARAPKIN, the head of the Soviet Delegation to the Disarmament Conference, read a statement at a press conference in which he strongly condemned the Swiss authorities for permitting NOSENKO's "kidnapping" and for hindering efforts to locate him. TSARAPKIN demanded that immediate steps be taken to return NOSENKO to Soviet custody.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

Top Secret

(Annex A)

12 February 1964 (continued)

At simultaneous press conferences in Bern and Geneva, the Swiss rejected these accusations of non-cooperation and noted the Soviet delay in advising the police of NOSENKO's disappearance and Soviet failure to cooperate with Swiss authorities in locating NOSENKO.

The Soviet note earlier promised by DOBRYNIN was delivered to the State Department. A noncommittal reply was given to Soviet queries concerning the requested interview and the means of NOSENKO's departure from Switzerland.

The Swiss Embassy asked for a meeting with NOSENKO in order to obtain assurance that the defection had been voluntary. Arrangements were made to have NOSENKO meet with Swiss and Soviet representatives in Washington as soon as possible.

NOSENKO arrived in Washington at 2130 hours.

12-13 February 1964



14 February 1964

In Moscow, Soviet Foreign Minister GROMYKO read to Ambassador KOHLER a statement deploring the "evasive" reply of the State Department to Soviet inquiries in Washington and terming the whole event of NOSENKO's disappearance a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Top Secret

(Annex A)

14 February 1964 (continued)

"gross provocation by American Intelligence organs".
GROMYKO repeated the demand for NOSENKO's immediate release from American custody

The Counselor of the Swiss Embassy interviewed NOSENKO at the Washington offices of the U.S. Immigration and Naturali- zation Service. The Soviet confrontation immediately after- wards was handled by Minister Counselor G.M. KORNIENKO, and Third Secretary V.F. ISAKOV, a recent arrival in Washington. NOSENKO told both the Swiss and the Soviets that he had defected of his own free will after careful consideration and that he had no desire to return to the Soviet Union. In response to KORNIENKO's questions, he specifically renounced his status and rights as a Soviet citizen.

18 February 1964

Feliks KOVALEV, a Soviet diplomat in Buenos Aires, told a CIA agent that he had attended the Institute of Inter- national Relations with NOSENKO. According to KOVALEV, NOSENKO had twice married, had a good family background, was the son of a Minister in the Government, was notorious for his "adventurous" nature, and "famous for his character".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Top Secret

(Annex A)

367

TS No. 197124


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# Top Secret





368

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# Top Secret

According to a sensitive source,

NOSENKO had been in the Second Chief Directorate for about 14 years and was acquainted with almost all of the employees of this directorate. He was aware of the structure of the KGB and knows many personnel of the First Chief Directorate.

NOSENKO, as Deputy to the Chief of the Seventh Department, had in his possession a telephone directory which listed the names of some 10,000 KGB employees in Moscow. Only Chiefs and Deputy Chiefs of Departments had these phone books. A KGB officer expressed the opinion that "NOSENKO is much more valuable to the FBI and CIA than was Oleg PENKOVSKIY because of the fact that he knows so much about the methods of work of the First and Second Directorates of the KGB and is familiar with so many individuals in the KGB both in Moscow and abroad. a KGB office said that PENKOVSKIY was able to furnish American and British Intelligence with a lot of information concerning defense secrets of the Soviet Union, but NOSENKO is much more knowledgeable in intelligence and counterintelligence operations of the KGB."

Comment: NOSENKO has never commented on the KGB telephone book referred to above.

369

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

13-00000

Top Secret

370

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

According to a sensitive source, in response to a question whether NOSENKO actually defected or whether the defection might be a KGB "trick", the source replied that from his own knowledge of this matter, he was convinced that NOSENKO's defection was not a "trick" by the KGB.

22 February 1964

According to a sensitive source from conversations with various unnamed KGB officers: NOSENKO worked against personnel stationed at the American Embassy in Moscow, and with his help agents were developed among these Americans. It is assumed by the KGB that he is familiar with the number and location of microphones in the Embassy.

Comment: Although NOSENKO knew that there were microphones in three general locations in the Embassy, his specific information regarding the number and location of microphones was limited to that contained in a written list brought to Geneva in 1964, a list which he claimed no one in the KGB knew he had.

24 February 1964

Women claiming to be the wife and mother of NOSENKO visited the American Embassy in Moscow for the first time, expressing disbelief that he had voluntarily betrayed his family and country and requesting a personal meeting with him.

371

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

13-00000

(Annex A)

24 February 1964 (continued)

Comment: NOSENKO confirmed their identities as his wife and mother on the basis of physical descriptions. On only one previous occasion have members of a defector's family called on a foreign embassy in Moscow. Following the defection of Yuriy Vasilyevich KROTKOV in England in 1963, his wife appeared at the British Embassy to make inquiries about him.

According to a sensitive source, KUROCHKIN (fnu), a KGB S&T officer scheduled for assignment to Washington, will not be sent as he is "well-known" to NOSENKO. In the course of his duties in Moscow, KUROCHKIN had very often visited the department where NOSENKO worked and, as a result, NOSENKO is "more than casually acquainted with him".

Comment: NOSENKO has never identified KUROCHKIN nor referred to the name.

372

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

Top Secret

(Annex A)

February 1964

Nikolay ARTAMONOV, who defected from the Soviet Navy in the late 1950's, noted the publicity accompanying NOSENKO's defection. He volunteered to CIA that he attended a naval preparatory school with the son of Minister NOSENKO in 1944-1946.

Comment: ARTAMONOV's description of the school and of the dates involved differs from those claimed by NOSENKO.

KGB officer Vladimir TULAYEV mentioned NOSENKO to a (CIA double agent in Vienna) TULAYEV said that NOSENKO, whom he knew well, came from a wonderful family, loved his wife and children, and earned a good salary. (TULAYEV later said on another occasion that he had friends who knew NOSENKO well.)

Comment: NOSENKO never identified TULAYEV by name or photograph. When asked, NOSENKO denied knowing him.

373

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

13-00000

February-March 1964

According to a sensitive source:

A KGB commission was in the process of studying "the scale of loss" (caused by NOSENKO's defection) to the USSR. The commission was very large, formed from different departments of the KGB. The study (sic) was made "because it is supposed that NOSENKO had access to many rocket matters, to many nuclear matters, to many strategical objects of the country...many details about life of the leaders of the country, in the government...that he knew very much about internal relations between the people working in the KGB, that he had many close friends among them and (spent) days and nights together with them. The whole history of his life was studied step by step very carefully."

374

TS No. 197124


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

According to a sensitive source, (from conversations with various unnamed KGB officers: NOSENKO knows many of the chiefs and deputies of the KGB directorates and departments at KGB Headquarters in Moscow. In KGB Headquarters there are four separate dining rooms for personnel who work there; one such dining room is reserved for chiefs and deputies of departments. Because of this fact, NOSENKO has a vast knowledge of the hierarchy of the KGB.

Comment: NOSENKO never referred to the dining rooms until the January-March 1965 interrogations, when he volunteered that he had eaten occasionally in the "chiefs' dining room".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

13-00000

Top Secret

(Annex A)

23 March 1964

The two women claiming to be the wife and mother of NOSENKO made the last of five visits to the Embassy in Moscow. NOSENKO's wife had explained that she required some definite statement in writing from her husband SO that she could plan for her own future and that of the NOSENKO children.

376

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# Top Secret

(Annex A)

27 March 1964
According to a sensitive source (from various unnamed KGB officers
certain: There seems to be unanimous opinion among KGB chiefs that NOSENKO...could do the KGB a tremendous amount of harm. NOSENKO in his position as a deputy chief in one of the departments of the Second Chief Directorate would have been entitled to have one personnel directory of approximately 30 pages setting for the identities of all of the supervisory officials in KGB Headquarters... NOSENKO would also have had a 200-page directory listing by name and telephone number all the rank-and-file employees working in Moscow. The opinion was expressed by some KGB "chiefs" that if NOSENKO were merely able to make these two directories available to American Intelligence, the KGB would be severely damaged for the present and for several years to come.

Comment: NOSENKO has never referred to the KGB directories described..

31 March 1964

KGB officers (I.I. PETUKHOV nad P.P. BORISOV in Canada told their agent George Herman SPRECHER to cease all intelligence activity for a year, to destroy any incriminating materials in his possession as well as to supply the Soviets with passport photographs so that "escape" documents could be prepared for himself and his family. SPRECHER asked whether the action had any connection with NOSENKO's recently publicized defection, but the KGB officers denied it, asserting NOSENKO "was just a secretary".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

13-00000

# Top Secret

(Annex A)

31 March 1964 (continued)

Comment: When *PETUKHOV* recontacted *SPRECHER* in February 1965, *PETUKHOV* acknowledged that *NOSENKO* had in fact been the cause of KGB concern, that he had had some connection with *NOSENKO*, and *NOSENKO* may have known something of what the KGB was doing in Canada. *NOSENKO* described a KGB Illegal, whose name was unknown to him, who apparently is identical to *SPRECHER.*

March 1964

According to a sensitive source who, was briefed in his office in KGB Headquarters by a Second Chief Directorate officer of the American Department: Personnel of that Department, in which NOSENKO had served until his defection, were so shocked at the event that they would not mention it at all.

Comment: In this and other contexts a sensitive source has stated or implied that NOSENKO served in the American Department in 1963-1964: NOSENKO asserts he left the American Department in January 1962 and served in the Seventh Department until his defection.

378

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# Top Secret





379

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Top Secret

(Annex A)

April-May 1964

KGB officer G.N. VLASOV, case officer of Robert Lee JOHNSON in Paris, began to meet JOHNSON on the street rather than in various restaurants as had been their habit. At one of their final meetings before JOHNSON returned to the United States, VLASOV told JOHNSON that a Soviet Intelligence officer had defected to the Americans in Geneva, and that extreme caution must therefore be exercised in JOHNSON's contacts with the KGB. VLASOV said that the defector could not identify JOINSON but that JOHNSON should dispose of everything he had which might link him to Soviet espionage activities. (See p. 24 for a summary of the JOHNSON case.)

May 1964: According to a sensitive source (from unidentified sources, presumably from KGB officers): Two commissions have been established by the CPSU for the purposes: (a) to: determine why KGB employees such as DERYABIN, GOLITSYN, and NOSENKO defected while serving abroad, and (b) to attempt to eliminate the "weak" employees and improve the efficiency of the KGB.

380

Top Secret

TS No. 197124

Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

13-00000

Top Secret

(Annex A)

20 May 1964
According to a sensitive source from a KGB officer:

The KGB was lucky that the Americans found only 40 microphones in the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. Actually, about 200 microphones were concealed by the Soviets in the Embassy. NOSENKO was responsible for furnishing information to the Americans which resulted in the microphones being found. NOSENKO knew only the general location of the 40 microphones which were found and does not have any knowledge of the remaining ones.

12 June 1964
Professor John M. THOMPSON reported at the American Embassy in Moscow that an unnamed Soviet official with whom he was acquainted told him that NOSENKO was a profligate with two wives and many debts and is considered in Moscow to be someone they are well rid of.

22 June 1964
According to a sensitive source:

(from various unnamed KGB officers)

The consensus among some KGB employees is that in the future the KGB will be feeling sharply the effects of NOSENKO's escape to American Intelligence. NOSENKO is considered to be vastly more important than either GOLITSYN or DERYABIN. This opinion appears to be based on several factors: First, NOSENKO worked against personnel stationed at the American Embassy in Moscow and with his help agents were developed among these Americans. Second, it is assumed by KGB personnel that because of his closeness to

381

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

## Top Secret

22 June 1964 (continued)

the American Embassy in the past, NOSENKO would also be familiar with the number of microphones which had been installed in the Embassy by the KGB and the locations of these microphones. Third, as a Deputy Chief of a depart- ment, NOSENKO would normally have had access to a telephone directory listing all personnel in all directorates of the KGB in Moscow. Another factor, which is a formidable one in the minds of other KGB employees, is that NOSENKO travelled in a rather influential circle of friends in Moscow who were high in the Soviet Government. All these comments were cited as reasons for NOSENKO being an "important catch" for American Intelligence, but no one in the KGB really knows exactly how much information NOSENKO had concerning the KGB.

29 June 1964

GOLITSYN (from personal acquaintance): NOSENKO, the son of the former Minister of Shipbuilding, was a KGB officer who had worked in the American Department and the Seventh Department of the Second Chief Directorate. GOLITSYN, while on his own First Chief Directorate business, met NOSENKO two or three times in the American Embassy Section in 1953, and had seen him occasionally at work during 1958 and 1959. When GOLITSYN asked him where he was working in 1959, NOSENKO replied that he was assigned to the Seventh Department. NOSENKO served in the American Embassy Section from 1953 until 1957 or 1958, and was specifically responsible for KGB coverage of American military personnel in Moscow during 1953. For the remainder of his service in the Embassy Section until 1957 or 1958, NOSENKO may have had the same responsibilities or may have been working against other Embassy personnel or correspondents, but he was definitely in the American Department during the entire period. In 1957 or 1958 NOSENKO was transferred to the Seventh Department, and was a senior case officer there as of 1959. NOSENKO did not work in the American Department of the Second Chief Directorate American Department at any time during 1960; GOLITSYN visited the Embassy Section on at least three occasions from early 1960 to early 1961, and would have known if NOSENKO had been in the Section, particularly if NOSENKO had been Deputy Chief. C.I. GRYAZNOV was acting as assistant of the Chief of the Section during this period.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

(Annex A)

Top Secret

29 June 1964 (continued)

Comment: NOSENKO claims he left the Embassy Section in 1955 and was assigned to the Seventh Department until 1960, when he returned to the Embassy Section as Deputy Chief. NOSENKO did not identify GOLITSYN's photograph and has denied since defection that he has ever met or even seen him.

June 1964

According to a sensitive source "Just after" NOSENKO's defection V.S. MEDVEDEV from the Exits Commission of the CPSU Central Committee travelled to Geneva to speak to the Soviets stationed there and to Soviet delegates to the Disarmament Conference. MEDVEDEV underscored the seriousness of the defection and urged greater vigilance against such acts. The defection caused the recall of Nina Ivanovna YEREMEYEVA, a KGB secretary in Geneva. It was rumored that some sixty Soviet officials stationed abroad would be transferred from their assignment as a consequence of the NOSENKO affair. V.A. POCHANKIN, a KGB officer with the permanent Soviet Mission in Geneva, speculated that he had been completely exposed by NOSENKO and would therefore have to return to Moscow. Yu. I. GUK who was known had been discharged from the KGB because he had recommended NOSENKO's travel to Geneva. According to one rumor, the chief of the Department in which NOSENKO had been employed, would also lose his job.

Comment: MEDVEDEV, a KGB officer formerly stationed in New York City, was said by to be one of those from the CPSU Central Committee who conducted interviews with KGB personnel going abroad. identified MEDVEDEV,.

383

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

(Annex A)

June 1964 (continued)

Comment: (Continued) a Counselor of the Soviet Mission at the United Nations, as the Communist Party organizer and possibly a member of the KGB, but said that MEDVEDEV's role is not important and that he worked mainly with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. POCHANKIN, who NOSENKO had identified as a KGB officer, was still in Geneva in December 1966.

29 July 1964

According to a sensitive source,
(from unnamed sources, presumably KGR officers):
An investigating commission of the CPSU Central Committee checking into the circumstances surrounding NOSENKO's defection has thus far been responsible for the expulsion from the KGB of 15 Second Chief Directorate employees. These include GRIBANOV, who was also expelled from the CPSU and was stripped of his rank of lieutenant general. GRIBANOV has been given a very small pension, like an ordinary Soviet citizen. This drastic action was taken since the primary responsibility for the defection was placed on GRIBANOV. It was realized that, in addition to being Chief of the Second Chief Directorate at the time of the defection, GRIBANOV was a personal friend of NOSENKO and had more or less treated NOSENKO as a protege and had taken many steps to further NOSENKO'S career within the KGB.. It was felt that GRIBANOV should have been aware of NOSENKO's plans to defect. Three of GRIBANOV's deputies were also expelled from the KGB, one of whom was a Major General BANNIK [BANNIKOV]. Of the 11 other Second Chief Directorate employees expelled, some were found to have been personal friends of NOSENKO and some of them were found to have confided to NOSENKO details of operations in which they were working. S.M. GOLUBEV, a KGB officer stationed in Washington, would be leaving for Moscow because the Investigating commission had determined that Yu. I. CUK, a mutual friend of NOSENKO and GOLUBEV told NOSENKO that GOLUBEV had been assigned to the Washington Legal Residency. GOLUBEV had himself worked with NOSENKO in KGB


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Top Secret

(Annex A)

29 July 1964 (continued)

Ileadquarters sometime in the past, but subsequently NOSENKO and GOLUBEV were given different assignments within the KGB and thereafter did not associate with one another in the course of their daily activities.

Comment: NOSENKO retracted in 1965 his earlier claims that CRIBANOV had been instrumental in his advancement and assignments. NOSENKO identified by name and photograph GOLUBEV, whom he had known personally since 1959, but NOSENKO said he had never worked with him at KGB Headquarters since GOLUBEV had always been in the First Chief Directorate. GOLUBEV left for the USSR on 28 August 1964.

July-August 1964

According to a sensitive source: The first information about NOSENKO was from KGB Headquarters which reported the conclusions of the commission which had been appointed to prepare the damage report on NOSENKO's defection. The letter, which was very brief, said that "the loss was very great and some new forms of work should be created to be efficient in the future". The Legal Residency had not before received any "reports or commentaries on NOSENKO'S escape".

385

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

Top Secret

(Annex A)

November 1964

Asked while visiting the United States if the Russian people had been told of the ABEL-POWERS exchange, Soviet mathematician R.V. GAMKRELIDZE replied to an American acquaintance that they had not been told officially but they knew about it since there was "quite a grapevine" in Moscow. It was in this way,, GAMKRELIDZE stated, that he learned of the NOSENKO defection and of its significance. According to the "grapevine", the defection was very damaging to Soviet Intelligence in that NOSENKO was the Chief of the American Section, and he knew the identities of all Soviet agents in the United States.

386

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

Top Secret

(Annex A)

November 1964 (continued)

Comment: GAMKRELIDZE is suspected of having connections with Soviet Intelligence because of his statements, actions, and unusual freedom of solitary movement while on visits to the United States. GAMKRELIDZE rebuffed a CIA recruitment attempt in 1964, but added that he "welcomed the opportunity to meet with an American Intelligence officer...to compare the Soviet Intelligence officers he had met with their American counterparts'. During that 1964 meeting GAMKRELIDZE again raised the subject of NOSENKO, describing him as "obviously a traitor to his country".

December 1964

Nikolay RESHETNYAK, NOSENKO's/roommate in Geneva at the time of his defection, told a source that he had been interrogated by the KGB in connection with NOSENKO's defection, and that he had later attended the Moscow trial in which NOSENKO was sentenced to death in absentia. RESHETNYAK source reported to the dismissal of large numbers of KGB officers, including GRIBANOV and GUK. From what RESHETNYAK said, source thought the KGB might go so far

Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Top Secret

(Annex A)

December 1964 (continued)

as to send someone to the United States to locate and kill
NOSENKO. later identified RESHETNYAK as a KGB
officer.)

Comment: NOSENKO identified RESHETNYAK as a Ukrainian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs officer on the
staff of the Disarmament Delegation.

29 January 1965

According to a sensitive source
(from conversations with unrecalled KGB officers:

It is common knowledge among
KGB employees that GRIBANOV was expelled from the KGB and
CPSU and is now on pension, partial rather than full, as a
result of the NOSENKO defection. When NOSENKO was being
considered for assignment to Geneva (in 1964), a summary
statement of his activities was prepared in the Second Chief
Directorate and sent to GRIBANOV. This summary contained
considerable "compromising information", concerning NOSENKO;
if acted upon properly, it would have removed him from
consideration for this trip. GRIBANOV read the summary
material, ran a line through all of it, and added the nota-
tion: "Send him to Geneva." The general feeling is that
GRIBANOV was willing to overlook a lot of NOSENKO's
deficiencies because of GRIBANOV's long-time friendship
with NOSENKO's father.

Comment: NOSENKO originally asserted that GRIBANOV
was responsible for sending him to Geneva in
1964, but after retracting his claim that
GRIBANOV had played any special role in his
assignments, he asserted that BANNIKOV approved
the 1964 trip. NOSENKO denies that his father
and GRIBANOV were acquainted.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# Top Secret

(Annex A)

8 February 1965
According to a sensitive source from a KGB officer

: Prior to NOSENKO'S
defection he was Deputy to the Chief of a department in the
Second Chief Directorate. While working in the Seventh the KGB officer
(Surveillance) Directorate in Moscow, on three
separate occasions participated in conferences between
"important people" of the Second Chief Directorate and the
Seventh Directorate. NOSENKO was present at all of these.
Although NOSENKO was a Deputy Chief he held only the rank
of captain in the KGB. attributed this (the the KGB officer
disparity between job and rank) to the influence which
GRIBANOV exerted on the behalf of NOSENKO.

Comment: the KGB officer NOSENKO the KGB officer NOSENKO has never identified
always claimed that he had been a lieutenant
colonel in the KGB until October 1966, when he
retracted that claim and asserted that he had
been only a captain.

According to a sensitive source from a KGB officer

: GRIBANOV has been dismissed from
the KGB, expelled from the CPSU, and is presently living on
a small pension. His dismissal occurred immediately after
NOSENKO's defection. In addition, not less than 50 other
people were dismissed, many of whom were close friends of
GRIBANOV. Most of these were from the First and Second
Chief Directorates, with the majority from the Second Chief
Directorate. The present Acting Chief of the Second Chief
Directorate is a Major General BANNIK, whose appointment
has not yet been approved by the Central Committee of the
CPSU. One of his deputies is a Major General (F.A.)
SHCHERBAK.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

Top Secret

(Annex A)

8 February 1965 (continued)

Comment: GRIBANOV was reported in operational contact with a senior Western diplomat until late autumn 1964 (almost a year after NOSENKO's defection), when he turned over that contact to another KGB officer.

9 February 1965

According to a sensitive source from a KGB officer:

The amount of damage caused by NOSENKO's defection is "unpredictable". NOSENKO knew few employees of the First Chief Directorate working abroad, but knew many such employees serving in KGB Headquarters by virtue of seeing them in the dining room which is reserved for chiefs and deputy chiefs of KGB departments.

Early June 1965

According to a sensitive source (from conversations with KGB officers:

Major General BANNIKOV is currently temporary Chief of the Second Chief Directorate, having replaced GRIBANOV who was expelled from the KGB because he supported NOSENKO in his career. GRIBANOV is working in a small city outside Moscow as the chief of security at an unimportant military plant and is now a "nothing".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# Top Secret

(Annex A)

15 July 1965
According to a sensitive source from a KGB officer

who attended the Moscow meeting described): A meeting of all First Chief Directorate personnel at KGB Headquarters was held on 15 July 1965. The meeting was devoted to the circumstances of the expulsion of the Chief of the Second (British) Department of the First Chief Directorate, Ye. A. TARABRIN, about three and a half months earlier. I.A. BELOV and other officers also attended the meeting. According to official statements made at the meeting, after the defection of NOSENKO the KGB conducted an extensive investigation to determine which employees knew him and the nature of their relationship. During this TARABRIN was questioned; he said he knew NOSENKO, but only casually and only because of limited contacts within the KGB. The investigation determined, how- ever, that TARABRIN attended several parties at which NOSENKO was present. Girls invited by NOSENKO were also there.
described one such party. Thereafter, TARABRIN was afforded a hearing and was accussed of willfully concealing vital information. As a result he was expelled from the KGB and the CPSU and was deprived of all pension rights.

Comment: NOSENKO had most recently asserted that he met GRIBANOV socially only three times during his KGB service, and on each occasion TARABRIN was present. NOSENKO said he twice provided girls for GRIBANOV and TARABRIN, once in October or November 1963 in circumstances similar to those referred to. NOSENKO said that TARABRIN was Chief of the British Department from 1958 to 1963, when he became Deputy Chief of "Service No. 2", the reorganized Counterintelligence Department of the First Chief Directorate.

391

# Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy: 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

Top Secret

(Annex A)

Summer 1965 According to a sensitive source:

As a result of NOSENKO's defection, many KGB officers were punished, expelled from the Party, and from the KGB. These included KGB Chairman SEROV, and Second Chief Directorate Chief GRIBANOV had been expelled from the Party and from the KGB. GRIBANOV had been especially friendly with NOSENKO, had given him many privileges, and they were "buddies and night buddies".

Comment: SEMICHASTNYY, not SEROV, was KGB Chairman in 1965. SEROV became head of the GRU in 1958.

Winter 1965-1966
Source, a self-professed former KGB Second Chief Directorate agent (from KGB officer V.G. SVIRIN, a colleague of her husband at the State Committee for Science and Technology (GKKNR) in 1960-1962. said Source that SVIRIN was later head of a KGB unit conducting operations against the American Embassy in Moscow):

NOSENKO's father was a Minister or General and his mother was Jewish and "always involved in some blackmarketeering". NOSENKO was not a KGB officer but a "civilian" connected somehow with the KGB. When NOSENKO defected, everyone said he was detestable. NOSENKO told the Americans about the microphones and things (sic) in the Embassy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

Top Secret

(Annex A)

Winter 1965-1966 (continued)

Comment:

Source's allegation is the single report from any source describing NOSENKO as other than a KGB officer.

March 1966
According to a sensitive source, (from unidentified sources in Moscow): NOSENKO, who was not personally known to , was an important Source boss in the KGB. When NOSENKO was a young man, he was in the GRU Military Academy and was then sent to the GRU Information Department for a short time; in all, perhaps for a year. NOSENKO had been a very undisciplined person while in the GRU and "not very good". He was to have been discharged from the GRU; however, his father, who was a very influential person in the Ministry of Shipbuilding, was able to get NOSENKO transferred to the KGB. It was the opinion of persons to whom talked that NOSENKO had given very, very good information to the U.S. after his defection and that NOSENKO had had great access to KGB information which included all means of KGB coverage of people in Moscow, microphone systems in the embassies, etc. Based on NOSENKO's information the American Embassy found many of the microphones.

393

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

March 1966 (continued)

Top Secret

Comment: NOSENKO has claimed that he rejected an offer to attend the Military Diplomatic Academy (which he, like, called the GRU - Source Military Academy), by choice accepting assignment to the Far East on entry to the GRU in 1951. At the time, the Military Diplomatic Academy was a four-year course; if NOSENKO did attend the school, he could not have served as he claimed in the GRU. is Source the sole source (besides NOSENKO) who alleged NOSENKO served in the GRU.

394

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

13-00000

Top Secret

(Annex A)

![blacked out content]

![blacked out content]

395

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

Top Secret

(Annex A)

Mid-1966

Yuriy Dmitriyevich KOROLEV, a Soviet journalist, visited Paris and spoke with representatives of the French magazine *Paris Match*. KOROLEV indicated that he would like to serve as a stringer for the French journal and proposed that he begin with a story on the life of the family of a "Soviet secret agent". AS KOROLEV spoke only broken French and English, the magazine staff did not seriously pursue the matter at that time.

Comment: KOROLEV is believed identical with Yuriy KOROLEV who, as of 1964, was employed part-time for the United Press International *Moscow* correspondent, Henry SHAPIRO, whom both NOSENKO and GOLITSYN have identified as an agent of the KGB (*Second Chief Directorate*) KOROLEV has travelled previously to Brussels as a correspondent for the Soviet publication *Sputnik*, and to Japan and the United States as a correspondent for *Novosti*, the Soviet news Agency. The offer by an official Soviet press representative of information on a "Soviet secret agent", which turned out to refer to NOSENKO, is without precedent.

October 1966

Soviet journalist Yu. D. KOROLEV returned to Paris with an interpreter to renew his offer to *Paris Match* editors to provide a story on the life of the family of a "Soviet secret agent". The story was to concern NOSENKO's family and their


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

Top Secret

(Annex A)

October 1966 (continued)

life in Moscow since NOSENKO's defection. A short background statement KOROLEV provided *Paris Match* editors stated:
"NOSENKO, about 36-38, an officer of the Soviet Secret Police organization, defected to the USA without his family about two years ago and asked for political asylum in the U.S.: it was granted to him. This was the most serious defeat of the Soviet Security organs as NOSENKO occupied important positions in espionage and counterespionage departments and also was closely acquainted with the country's leading families and homes. NOSENKO's family consists of a wife, 35, two daughters, 10 and 12, a mother and a younger brother. The family is not prosecuted (sic) but feel very badly about the incident (the defection). Very soon the wife will apply to the International Lawyers Organization for a divorce and compensation. It is possible that this case will be given much publicity. His wife has not heard from him since he defected, but it is obvious that he is still in the USA." KOROLEV displayed a photo spread showing NOSENKO's wife and family going about their daily affairs in Moscow, and indicated that additional photographs of NOSENKO's family could be obtained and that interviews with them and with others knowing NOSENKO could be arranged for a *Paris Match* correspondent.

Comment: A divorce from a defector from the Soviet Union, who is legally considered to be an enemy of the state, is granted automatically upon the wife's request.

28 January 1967

According to a sensitive source (from personal knowledge): Referring to his own knowledge of KGB organization, [redacted] said if NOSENKO heard his explanation, he would call [redacted] a child, since NOSENKO knew these matters better than [redacted] because he had served at KGB Headquarters longer.

Source

Top Secret


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

Top Secret

(Annex A)

February 1967
According to a sensitive source (from unidentified GRU sources in Moscow):
NOSENKO worked only in RU Information Department of the GRU, and only for about five or six months, after which he went to the KGB.

May 1967
According to a sensitive source:
The KGB assumes that NOSENKO divulged the whole system of surveillance of Americans. He worked on it, knew all about it and exposed the whole system of work. He knew all the posts, the sources (few words unclear) he knew all the surveillance groups and knew surveillants by sight.

According to a sensitive source: When NOSENKO worked in the GRU Information Department he worked only in the Center (Headquarters) in Moscow. He worked badly there, and received bad efficiency reports, as a result of which he had arguments. Then with his father's help he went to the KGB.

5 June 1967
According to a sensitive source:
There had been some KGB suspicions of Pavel Fedorovich SHAKHOV while he was in Geneva, because he had allegedly had many American contacts which he had not reported, and NOSENKO was sent to Geneva to investigate him. Rezident KULEBYAKIN is still suspicious of SHAKHOV.

Comment: NOSENKO claims he was sent to Geneva in 1962 to investigate SHAKHOV.

398

Top Secret

TS No. 197124
Copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# SECRET

## ANNEX A - STATEMENTS OF SOVIET OFFICIALS

### ABOUT NOSENKO

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# ANNEX A

STATEMENTS OF SOVIET OFFICIALS ABOUT NOSENKO

Pages 361 - 398 of the previous summary contain statements by Soviet officials including several sources in regard to NOSENKO. These remarks cover the period of February 1964 to June 1967.

None of the quoted information with the exception of a statement a Source (a self-professed former KGB Second Chief Directorate agen by who stated NOSENKO was not a KGB officer but a "civilian" connected somehow with the KGB, raises a question concerning the identity of NOSENKO or whether he was actually a KGB officer. It is not considered that the remark by SOURCE can be given any particular weight or that it represents any material evidence he was not a KGB officer.

Of the cited information from Soviets in regard to NOSENKO, the most important, other than statements by GOLITSYN which are sensitive Source #1, sensitive Source #3 cited elsewhere, is the information from and sensitive Source #2 and probably in that order. Source #1, Source #3 and Source #2 had no personal knowledge of NOSENKO and most of their comments were based on information from third parties or obtained through conversation. There are discrepancies between what Source #1 and Source #2 have reported about NOSENKO and what NOSENKO has


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

said, but under the given circumstances of how Source #1 and Source #2 acquired the information, certain discrepancies should be expected.

No discrepancies would appear highly suspicious. It should be noted that Source #2, Source #3 and Source #1 and have furnished no information that NOSENKO is not a bona fide defector.

It is felt that information from Source #1, Source #3 and Source #2 and is a factor which should be given due consideration in the NOSENKO case, but the fact that they furnished no information indicating that NOSENKO is not a bona fide defector should not be considered as absolute proof

he was not dispatched by the KGB. A decision as to whether NOSENKO was or was not dispatched should be based on a full consideration of all available information. It must be realized there is a possibility NOSENKO could have been dispatched by the KGB and Source #1, Source #3 and Source #2 be completely unaware; conversely, a determination that NOSENKO was not dispatched by the KGB does not establish the bona fides of Source #1, Source #3 or Source #2.

NOSENKO, until October 1966, stated that a telegram had been received in the Geneva Residentura ordering NOSENKO to return to the USSR in connection with an expected conference on tourist matters. The telegram,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

according to NOSENKO in interviews prior to October 1966, had beer received in the Residentura the morning of the same day he met his CIA contacts and stated he had defected.

In October 1966, NOSENKO responded to a casual mention of the "recall telegram" with a complete retraction of his previous state- ments on the subject. NOSENKO stated, and has subsequently maintained, that there was not a "recall telegram." He has explained that he inventeci the "recall telegram" matter because he was concerned about his personal safety in remaining "in place" for a longer time. NOSENKO has stated he thought the alleged "recall telegram" would be accepted by CIA as a logical reason for his precipitate defection.





3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

13-00000

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

Certain of the discrepancies noted in the previous summary between information from Source #1 and Source #2 and from NO have been clarified and certain discrepancies could not be clarified. In some instances the information from Source #1 and Source #2 is adjudged to be inaccurate. The judgment is based on the hearsay nature of the reporting by Source #1 and Source #2 measured against the absence of any reason to question this part of his life as related by NOSENKO. Examples are information from Source #1 that NOSENKO had been


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

affiliated with the KGB since about 1947 and information from Source #2 that NOSENKO attended the GRU Military Academy and that NOS ENKO worked in the GRU Information Department in Moscow. There are also certain discrepancies between information furnished by Source #2, Source #1 and Source #3 in and in regard to the life and career of NOSENKO prior to 1964.

In regard to discrepancies previously noted between information from Source #1 as to certain KGB officers whom Source #1 understood NOSENKO had personally met and concerning whom NOSENKO had pre-viously indicated no knowledge, a satisfactory explanation has been obtained for certain of the discrepancies during current interviews with NOSENKO. In certain other instances, a completely adequate explana-tion is not available but there is just as adequate reason to believe Source #1 had obtained incorrect or incomplete information as there is to believe NOSENKO is being deceptive in his failure to recognize a name and/or photograph.

As an example of previous noted discrepancies which have now been completely clarified, it was previously stated that NOSENKO had never commented on the KGB telephone book which Source #1 had re-ported NOSENKO, had in his possession.

During current interviews, NOSENKO, in response to a query concerning


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

how an officer in the SCD would obtain the telephone number of an
FCD officer, gave a detailed report including information that there
was at least one complete SCD telephone directory in each room
occupied by SCD officers. In addition, NOSENKO stated he had access
to a directory which was maintained in the office of the Chief of the
Department and which listed the KGB officers down to Section Chiefs
in the various geographical Directorates throughout the USSR.

It is interesting to note that there is a discrepancy between the
information furnished by concerning the telephone directory
Source #1
and the description furnished by NOSENKO. This is quite logical
since could hardly give an accurate description of a telephone
Source #1
directory which he had never seen.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)