# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET - SECURITY INFORMATION

# CONTRACT PERSONNEL

OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
RETURN FILE TO SE-45

NOTICE: This is an office of Personnel File and subject to 10 day limitation period. This file has been charged to MAGGIE and is due to be returned to CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION, SE-65 HS., x7841, as of_27/15/75


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Mr. George Martin Rosnek

Dear Mr. Rosnek:

Reference is made to your contract with the U. S. Government as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 8 April 1979, paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" is amended by deleting the figure $37,270 as it appears therein and by substituting in lieu thereof the figure $41,270. Said paragraph is also modified to provide that subsequent augmentation of your basic fee, based upon the percentage increase authorized U. S. Government employees in the annual Legislative Pay increases, will be individually authorized by contract amendment at appropriate times as requested and certified by the responsible Government official, provided however, that your total compensation under this paragraph does not exceed the salary

THE TOP STOP of

all other Terms and Conditions of the CONTRACT, as amended, remain in full fore and effect.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

Mr. George Hartin Roerek

Dear Hr. Rosnek:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 7 October 1979 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" is amended by deleting the figure $41,270 as it appears therein and by substituting in lieu thereof the figure $44,159.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY /s/ Gene L. Byrd

Contracting Officer

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

$
5_{oct\atop 1979}$
CI 321-79

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM: David H. Blee
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH: Chief, Career Management Staff
Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

SUBJECT: Amendment to Contract for
George Martin Rosnek,

1. Per paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation"
   of subject's contract, effective 1 March 1970, as amended,
   it is hereby requested that the figure $41,270 be deleted
   and the figure $44,159 be substituted therein. This in-
   crease represents the percentage increase (7 percent)
   authorized US Government employees in the annual Legislative
   Pay increase effective 1 October 1979.

2. All classified Secret.

David H. Blee

CONCUR:

![signature of the Chief, Career Management Staff]

Chief, Career Management Staff

$
9 oct
Date
$
79
$
APPROVED

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Date

CL BY 063765
RVW 5 Oct 99 DRV D9c.1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERIAL USE ONLY

Mr. George Martin Posnek

Dear Mr. Rosneks

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as emended.

Effective 8 Foril 1979, paragraph four (4) entitled "Carpensation" is amended by deleting the figure $37,270 as it appears therein and by substitating in lieu thereof the figure $41,270, Said paragraph is also modified to provide that subsequent augmentation of your basic fee, based upon the percentage increase authorized U.S. Government employees in the annual Legislative Pey lecreases, will be individually authorised by contract amendmen at appropriate thes as requested and certified by the responsible Government official, provided however, that your total compensation under this paragraph does not exceed the equivalent of the salary rate paid at the top step of GS-15.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY /s/ Gene L. Bund
Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTEN:

George Martin Posnek 11 APR 1979
Date

WITNESS: 11.1 APR 1979
Date

APPROTED:

David H. B 12 APR 1979
Date

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

MAR
29
CI 121-79

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM: David H. Blee
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH: Chief, Career Management Staff
Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

SUBJECT: Amendment to Contract for
George Martin Rosnek

1. Action Requested: It is requested that the contract
   for Mr. George Martin Rosnek, an Independent Contractor, be
   amended to increase his compensation from $37,270 to $41,270
   per annum effective 8 April 1979.

2. Background: In September 1978 Mr. Rosnek, a former
   senior officer of the KGB, raised with his case officer the
   question of prior financial commitments made to him by the
   Agency. Specifically, he claimed that the Agency still owed
   him $20,000 of an original commitment of $50,000 made to him
   at the time of his defection. This $20,000 claim has become
   an obsession with Mr. Rosnek and is likely to affect negatively
   his relationship with the Agency unless resolved to his relative
   satisfaction. Attached for background information are
   documents relating to Mr. Rosnek's claim.

3. After careful consideration of the equities involved
   in this case it is my belief that security considerations
   dictate that we settle Mr. Rosnek's claim in the following
   manner. I will approve an increase in his annual payment by
   $4,000 effective April 1979 (from $37,270 to $41,270).
   Thereafter, his annual compensation would be increased each
   October in the amount identical to the cost of living increase
   given to US Government employees. (This cost of living pro-
   vision is currently in his contract). However, at such time

SECRET

CL BY 063765
RVW 26 Mar 99 DRV D9c.1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

as Mr. Rosnek reaches the salary paid an employee in the
top step of GS-15 (currently $47,500) his annual compensation
would be increased only as the pay for that step increases.

4. All other terms and conditions of said contract, as
   amended, remain in full force and effect.

5. All classified Secret.

![signature of David H. Blee]
David H. Blee

Attachments:
As Stated

CONCUR:

![signature]
Chief, Career Management Staff

05 APR 1970
Date

APPROVED:

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Date

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

FROM: Steven K. Rubenstein
C/CI/A/DEF

SUBJECT: PDDONOR

REFERENCES: A. Memo Dated 16 February 1970
From DC/Security Research Staff

B. Memo Dated 14 August 1972
From DC/Security Research Staff

C. Acknowledgement and Release Form
Dated 12 July 1973

1. A careful review of the PDDONOR file substantiates the fact that there were three unequivocal financial commitments made to PDDONOR at the time of his defection in February 1964. These three commitments were:

a. He would be paid $25,000 for each of the two years he cooperated in place. Total $50,000.

b. He would receive $10,000 for his part in identifying William Vassal, a British Admiralty employee as a KGB agent.

c. He would receive $25,000 per year salary from the Agency.

2. The question at issue now is whether an additional commitment was also made to PODONOR to the effect that the Agency would provide financial assistance to him to purchase a home. According to PODONOR, on 30 January 1964 in Geneva prior to his defection in a conversation with his case officer, Mr. Tennent Bagley he stated, "I will arrive with what I have on my back - no home - no roof - no anything." The reply to PDDONOR was as follows; "This will be taken care of. It will be provided." This exchange in PDDONOR's view, constituted

SECRET

DCL RVW 14 Feb-00
DRY D.9c.1 BY 06-3765


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

what he believes was a commitment on the part of the Agency to provide him with financial assistance in the purchase of a home. A memorandum dated 16 February 1970, written by Mr. Bruce Solie describes this verbal exchange between PDDONOR and his case officer. (See Reference A). In addition, a memorandum dated 14 August 1972 also written by Mr. Solie (Reference B) states that "Nosenko stated that prior to his defection in Geneva, he discussed his future with Bagley and made three requests, these being:

a. Employment at $25,000 per year;

b. $50,000 in savings account;

c. Assistance in purchasing a house.

According to Nosenko, Bagley, a day or two later, informed Nosenko that his requests had been approved and Nosenko considers this constituted a valid verbal contract."

3. From PDDONOR's viewpoint therefore an additional commitment, quite separate and apart from the three listed in paragraph 1 was made to him. Consequently, he now argues that a payment made to him in July 1970, in the amount of $20,000 and which he used as a downpayment on a house, was the fulfillment of this additional commitment and not part of the $50,000 he was promised for his two years in place. This despite the fact that in the 14 August 1972 memorandum as Mr. Solie states in paragraph 5. "Nosenko also considers that the assistance in purchasing furniture, a house, etc., which he has been given since 1969 should be considered as cancelling the matter of the $50,000.

4. What seems to have occurred is a change of position on PDDONOR's part. While previously acknowledging that the original $50,000-commitment had been met (paragraph 5 of Reference B) PODONOR now takes the position that of the below listed payments only $30,000 should be applied against the $50,000 commitment. The July 1970 payment of $20,000 should be applied against a separate commitment to provide assistance in purchasing a home.

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

$2,000 in March 1964
$8,000 in May 1969
$5,000 on 1 July 1970
$20,000 on 1 July 1970 (According to PDDONOR this
payment should not be applied
against the $50,000 commitment)
$15,000 on 12 July 1973

Thus, according to PDDONOR's reasoning $20,000 is still due him as part of the original $50,000 commitment.

5. Several additional points should be noted. On 2 July 1973 PDDONOR signed an "Acknowledgment and Release" prepared by the General Counsel in which PDDONOR releases and forever discharges the US Government and the Agency from any claim for money promised to him. (Reference C). In addition, the issue of the $20,000 he says is still owed him does not surface in the file until September 1978, 14 years after his defection. The explanation of why this issue would arise at this late date is not clear from available records.

6. Attached are copies of those documents which impact on this issue. Because of the complexities of this case I recommend that we request the Office of General Counsel to review the entire case and provide a ruling on the legitimacy of PDDONOR's claim of $20,000. After such a ruling we can discuss our future course of action.

7. All classified Secret.

Attachments:
As Stated

Steven K. Rubenstein
Steven K. Rubenstein

3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

OGC 79-02042
1 March 1979

MEMORANDUN FOR : Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

FROM : John A. Rizzo
Assistant General Counsel

SUBJECT : Financial Commitments to PODONOR/1

1.  This is in response to your memorandum of 23 February 1979 which requests our opinion concerning CIA's existing financial obligations to PDDONOR/1, a former high-ranking KGB officer who defected to this country in February 1964 after having cooperated in place for the previous two years. Based on information contained in CI Staff files, there appears no question that the Agency made three documented, unequivocal promises to PDDONOR/1 at the time of his defection:

a)
he would be paid a total of $50,000 ($25,000 per annum) in consideration for his previous two years' service in place:

b)
he would receive a $10,000 payment for his part in identifying a certain KGB operative in the British government; and

c)
he would be placed under contract for "an indefinite period" after his defection at a yearly salary of $25,000, with accompanying provision for retirement and other benefits.

Your memorandum seeks our assistance in resolving the issue of whether or not the Agency has, as PDDONOR/1 asserts, any current, independent obligation to pay PDDONOR/1 $20,000 based on an oral commitment made to him by a now-retired CIA officer at the time of his defection promising him the Agency's financial assistance in his securing a residence in this country.

ORIGINAL CL BY 035779
DECL REVW CN 28 Feb 99
EXT BYND 6 YRS BY same
REASON 3d (3)

SECRET

ALL PORTIONS ARE CLASSIFIED SECRET

ATTACHMENT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

2.  As you know, due to unforseen and extraordinary factors which arose shortly after PDDONOR's defection, the three documented commitments made to him as outlined in the previous paragraph were not fulfilled until some years after his defection. In this connection, the file indicates that PDEONOR/1 did not start receiving an Agency salary until March 1969, and that it was not until six years later that he began to be paid at the previously promised rate of $25,000 per annum. Accordingly, in order to belatedly satisfy in full the commitments originally made to PDDONOR/1 in 1964, lump-sum payments have been made to him on three occasions in recent years with the approval of senior Agency management. Briefly, these lump-sum payments consisted of:
    a) $125,000 (less taxes) in November 1972 to cover the balance owed for salary during the period April 1964 το March 1969; b) $15,000 in July 1973 to settle the remainder due on the $50,000 obligation to PDDONOR/1 for his service in place overseas prior to his defection; and c) $28,500 (authorized in April 1976 but evidently not paid until late last year) to cover the balance of his previously promised $25,000 annual salary for the period March 1969 - March 1975 as well as the $10,000 commitment originally made to PDDONOR/1 prior to his February 1964 defection (see paragraph 1(b) above) for his role in identifying a certain KGB operative in England.

3.  As previously stated, the sole issue for consideration at this point revolves around PDDONOR/l's relatively recent assertion that CIA still owes him $20,000 as a result of a vaguely worded oral commitment made to him by a now- retired Agency officer in 1964 who promised that CIA would provide housing for PDDONOR/1 in this country following his arrival. In analyzing PDDONOR/I's contentions in this regard, we believe for For the following reasons that the details surrounding CIA's July 1973 payment to him of $15,000 assume particular significance and do, in fact, firmly rule out any further, outstanding legal obligation to him with respect to payments to cover PODONOR/l's eventual purchase of a home. Of course, the key considération involved is the fact that the $15,000 payment was made following PDDONOR/l's execution of a quitclaim prepared by this Office through which he agreed to "release and forever discharge...the Central Intelligence Agency...from any claim for money promised to him for, and/or at the time of his defection, and from any and all other claims... ...in any form whatsoever arising out of or in any way connected with his cooperation and association with... CIA prior to the date of this document, 12 July 1973."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Thus, the wording of the quitclaim is clearly and purpose-fully unconditional and is specifically intended to bar the kind of belatedly raised claim which PDDONOR/1 is raking now.

4. In taking this position, we recognize that one could properly point out in rebuttal that notwithstanding the seemingly all-encompassing scope of the quitclaim, a further payment of $28,500 was in fact subsequently authorized for PDDONOR/1 in April 1976. However, as was noted in an internal OGC memorandum dated 1 April 1976 which concurred in this additional $28,500 payment, the real purpose of the 12 July release was to settle once and for all the issue of the balance of the $50,000 owed PDDONOR/1 for his two years of in-place cooperation prior to his defection. Accordingly, since the $28,500 payment was intended to satisfy other pre-existing commitments to PDDONOR/1 (i.e.. back-salary owed for 1964-1969 as well as the $10,000 promised for his role in identifyig the KGB operative in England), this office concluded at that time that the payment was legally permissi-ble since it was outside the intended scope of the quitclaim and was being used to fulfill separate, fully documented promises of compensation made earlier to him.

5. By contrast, at the time that CIA made its July 1973 payment to PDDONOR/1 in return for his quitclaim, the available background materials contained in the files you have provided us leave little doubt that the issue of compen-sation to cover his purchase of a home was an intrinsic part of the calculations which led to the decision to authorize the $15,000 payment to him at that time. For instance, in the 25 June 1973 memorandum to Mr. Colby which contained the recommendation for the $15,000 payment, the Director of Security delineated some of the previous advances made to PDDONOR/1 in partial satisfaction of the $50,000 owed to him for the 1962-64 period. It was specifically noted in that connection that "[a]gainst this ($50,000), sum in April-May 1969, (PDDONOR/1} was given $8,000 as financial assistance for resettlement in in the private economy and $25,000 in mid-1970 towards the purchase of a new house and other related expenses:" (Emphasis added). These amounts plus an additional $2,000 which had been previously advanced were subtracted from the original $50,000 commitment, thứs leading to the final figure of $15,000 that was subsequently paid to PDDONOR/1 in July 1973 and for which he readily signed the quitclaim re leasing CIA from any further financial obligations to him. The Director of Security's memorandum went on to indicate that PDDONOR/1 "agreed" with these calculations; moreover PDDONOR/1's acknowledgment that CIA had previously fulfilled its


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

commitments to him regarding a house is more explicitly documented in a 14 August 1972 memorandum for the file from the Deputy Chief, Security Research Group, which quotes PDDONOR/1 as saying that he "considers that the assistance in purchasing furniture, a house, etc. which he has been given since 1969 should be considered as cancelling the matter of the $50,000". (Emphasis added).

6. Therefore, from all of the above, it must be concluded that, contrary to PODONOR/1's assertions, CIA has long since fulfilled any promises which Agency representatives made to him prior to his defection concerning his housing in this country. Further, the available evidence clearly tends to indicate that PDDONOR/1 fully understood and accepted the fact that these obligations had been fully met at the time that he signed his quitclaim in July 1973. Thus, since the terms and scope of the quitclaim are fully controlling on the claim which PDDONOR/1 is asserting, ve have determined that the Agency has no legal obligation whatsoever to pay him the $20,000 which he seeks

7. As a final note, this Office recognizes that, notwithstanding the absence of any legal obligations, the particularly sensitive status of PDDONOR/1 within CIA may nevertheless give rise to an understandable desire in some quarters to make the $20,000 payment to him on security and/or moral grounds. We do not necessarily quarrel with such a viów, nor do we mean to implý thất CIA is legally precluded from, in effect, "waiving" the terms of the quit-claim if it so chooses. At the same time, it must be remembered that this. Office was asked to prepare the quitclaim at issue in 1973 precisely in anticipation of a situation such as the one before us now. It is respectfully submitted that such documents will cease to have any future efficacy or credibility whatsoever if individuals such as PUDONOR/1 who are ostensibly bound by them perceive a willingness on the part of CIA to set aside these carefully worded and legally binding documents whenever a claim (no matter how 111-founded) is advanced. In short, we hope and trust that any decision to pay PDDONOR/1 the $20,000 at issue despite the quitclaim and documented evidence to the contrary will be based on truly compelling security or moral considerations.

![signature of John A. Rizzo]

John A. Rizzo

SECRET

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

Mr. George Martin Rosnak

Dear Mr. Rosnak:

Reference is made to your contract with the U. S. Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 26 December 1978, paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other Expense" is amended by the deletion of the last sentence in its entirety and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:

"If in the course of this contract you are directed to travel or are authorized to incur other expenses, reimbursement of such expenses will be made on a commuted rate basis, based on constructive cost, while in the Washington metropolitan area. This commuted rate sum will not be reduced by any operational entertainment that may be provided to you."

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By:

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

George Martin Rosnak

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

2CB) JS
1/9/79


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY SOC-2

Mr. George Martin Rosnek

Dear Mr. Rosnek:

Reference is made to your Contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 8 April 1979, paragraph four (4) entitled *"Compensation"* is amended by deleting the figure $37,270 as it appears therein and by substituting in lieu thereof the figure $41,270. Said paragraph is also modified to provide that subsequent augmentation of your basic fee, based upon the percentage increases authorized U.S. Government employees in the annual Legislative Pay increases, will be individually authorized by contract amendment at appropriate times as requested and certified by the responsible Government official, provided however, that your total compensation under this paragraph does not exceed the equivalent of the salary rate paid at the top step of GS-15.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

George Martin Rosnek

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Mr. Bruce A, Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 3 October 1973 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" is amended by deleting the figure $35,327 as it appears therein and by substituting in lieu thereof the figure $37,270.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
BY /
Contracting Officer

Of
Administrative - Internal Use On,

RCB/SP
10/12/78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# ADMINISTRATIVE-INTERNAL USE ONLY

Mr. George Martin Rosnek

Dear Mr. Rosnek:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 9 October 1977 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" is amended by deleting the figure $33,000 as it appears therein and by substituting in lieu thereof the figure $35,327. Said paragraph is also modified to provide that subsequent augmentation of your basic fee, based upon cost-of-living increases, will be individually authorized by contract amendment at appropriate times as requested and certified by the responsible Government official.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

/S/

George Martin Rosnek

2 APR 78

Date

WITNESS:

/S/

2 APR 78

Date

APPROVED:

B. C

3 APR 1978

Date


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Mr. George Martin Roanok

Dear Mr. Rosneks

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Overnment, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amantel.

Effective 16 February 1977 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" is amended by authorizing you a one-time, lump suim taxable payment in the amount of $2,100.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amendod, remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

By

Special Contracting Offloar

ACCEPTED:

/s/

George Martin Rosnek

2 apr 78

Date

WITNESS:

/s/

2 apr 78

Date

APPROVED:

B 24

3 APR
1973

Date


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

Mr. George Martin Rosnek

Dear Mr. Rosnek:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 1 June 1977 paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel, and other Expenses" is amended by expanding its scope to authorize the concurrent, voluntary, travel of your dependent wife, including the appropriate rate of per diem, when it is determined by the responsible Government official that such travel will support and best serve operational interests and objectives. The extent and destinations of such dependent travel will be as designated and defined by such official and, when in the course of such travel it is determined as a matter of operational necessity or as a matter essential to her health and well being that she remain at some particular place in the course of such travel while you continue on to specific geographical locations in fulfillment of operational mission, continuation of her per diem will be authorized for such periods. All monies advanced or reimbursed you hereunder by the Government and for the purposes herein indicated are determined to be additional income to you and as such considered to be taxable for Federal income tax purposes.

It is also understood and agreed by all concerned, and is herein so confirmed, that this amendment is in no way intended or should be construed as obligating your dependent wife to accompany you on travel abroad, under the terms of this agreement. It is also understood and agreed that the U. S. Government neither infers or assumes any liability of whatsoever nature concerning her health and well being if she freely elects to undertake such travel.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

151

George Martin Rosnek

2 Apr 78

Date

WITNESS:

151

2 apr 78

Date

APPROVED:

AFR

1373

Date


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

ogc 78-0606
1-31-75

30 January 1978

Bertotally, Bruce A.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

VIA:
Office of General Counsel, OSMLD, Attention: Mr. John Rizzo

FROM:
Charles W. Sandman
Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT:
Contract Amendment for Mr. George Martin Rosnek

REFERENCE:
Memorandum from Chief, CI Staff, dated 20 December 1977

1. (S) Referenced memorandum pertained to a formal request to amend Subject's contract to provide authorization for specific operational expenses.

2. (S) Paragraph five (S) of Subject's current contract, among other things, provided for "other expenses". It is our opinion that the intent here was to provide authorization for expenditures for "Operational" purposes. The language being general and non-restrictive in nature, it would follow that any expenditure deemed by you, as the operating activity, to be of an operational nature, and so authorized, would be within the framework of the authorization and that there would be no need to specifically identify and additionally authorize the item and/or its value. Accordingly no action is taken upon your request, it being presumed that you already have adequate contractual authority.

Charles W. Sandman

Concur:

/s/ John A. Rizzo

Office of General Counsel

Date:

8 FEB 1978

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - OGC/OSMLD
2 - OP/CPD.

SECRET

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 063837


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Mr. George Martin Rosnek

Dear Mr. Rosnek

Ref. is made to your contract with the U.S. Govt., as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 26 Dec. 1973 paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other Expenses" is amended by the deletion of the last sentence in its entirety and by substituting in lieu thereof the following:

"If in the course of this contract you are directed to travel or are authorized to incur other expenses, reimbursement of such expenses will be made on a commuted rate basis, based on constructive cost, while in the in the Washington metropolitan area. This commuted rate sum will bot be reimbursed reduced by any operational entertainment, that may be provided to you."

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

Signature.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

26
CI 494-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

FROM: David H. Blee
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH: Chief, Career Management Staff
Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

SUBJECT: Contract. Amendment for
Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

1. Action Requested: It is requested that the contract
   for Bruce A. BERTOTALLY, an Independent Contractor, be amended
   by changing the last sentence of Paragraph S, Allowances,
   Travel, and Other Expenses, to read as follows:-

> "If, in the course of this contract, you are directed
> to travel or are authorized to incur other expenses,
> reimbursement of such expenses will be made on a
> commuted rate basis, based on constructive cost, while
> In the Washington metropolitan area. This commuted
> rate sum will not be reduced by any operational
> entertainment that may be provided to you."

2. Background: Because of the current wording in
   paragraph 5 of BERTOTALLY's contract, C/PCS/CSS/B&F believes
   that a reduction in BERTOTALLY's commuted rate entitlement
   must be made when operational entertainment (meals) are
   provided him by his case officer. This interpretation is
   based on the present wording in the contract stating that
   reimbursement for expenses will be in "substantial accordance
   with CIA regulations." Since under CIA regulations a re-
   duction in per diem is effected when meals are provided by
   the Government, C/PCS/CSS/B&F believes the language of the
   contract should be amended to permit operational entertainment
   (meals) to be provided to Subject without resultant deduction
   in his commuted rate reimbursement

3. All other terms and conditions of the contract
   remain in full force and effect

David H. Blee
David H. Blee

CONCUR:

DERIVATIVE CL BY 063765
DECL REVW ON
DERIVED FROM 090.1

C/CMS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

Mrs Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally

Ref. is made to your contract with the U.S. Govt., as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended, and with specific reference to the amendment effective 1 June 1977 pertaining to travel as authorized in paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other Expenses." Effective 1 June 1977 the last sentence of said paragraph, the sense of which pertains to the imposition and the subjectivety of funds received under the contract to taxes, is deleted in its entirety.

Effective 25 Jan. 1978 said K is further amended by expanding the scope of parazreja four (k), entitled "Compensation to provide for ther authorization of a one time lump sum payment in the amount of $140.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# EDITLONAL USE UNLI

Mr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear Hr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, ad represented by the Contral Intelligence Acency, offective 1 March 1970, as emondod, with specific reference to the amendment offective 1 June 1977 pertaining to travel as authorized in paragraph five (3) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other Expenses." Effective 1 June 1977 the last sentence of said paragraph, the senso of which partains to the imposition and the subjectivety of funds received under the contract to taxes, is deleted in its entirety.

Effective 25 January 1978 said contract is furthur amended by expanding tha soppopof paragraph four (4), entitled "Compensation" to provide for the authorization of a one-time, lump sum payment in the amount of $1,404.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remaم مل full force and offect

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Special Contracting Officer

CE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

ReBingo Ing.

1-30-78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

20 DEC
1977

CI 659-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : B. Hugh Tovar
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH : Chief, Career Management Staff
Manpower and Support Branch/Contract

SUBJECT : Contract Amendment for
George Martin Rosnek

1. Action Requested: It is requested that the contract for Mr. George Martin Rosnek, an Independent Contractor, be amended effective as of 1 January 1978 to pay him $50.00 per month for the use of his private living quarters as an office. It is also requested that Mr. Rosnek's contract be amended to include the interest payments on a car that he purchased so that he could be ready and available for work when we request him.

2. Background: When CI Staff assumed responsibility for Mr. Kosnek in July 1976, we noted that the Office of Security had an informal arrangement by which it reimbursed Mr. Rosnek $50.00 per month for the use of his private quarters as office space. It is now requested that this arrangement be incorporated into Mr. Rosnek's contract.

On 7 February 1977 former Chief CI Staff agreed to reimburse Mr. Rosnek for the interest payments on a car which he purchased so that he would be ready and available for work when we needed him. The monthly interest charge as of December 1977 is slightly less than $39.00 and it is

SECRET

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012208


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

expected to decline steadily as the unpaid balance is amortized over the next two years. It is, therefore, requested that Mr. Rosnek's contract be amended to also include this payment.

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

![signature of B. Hugh Tovar]
B. Hugh Tovar

CONCUR:

![signature]

C/CMS/MSB/C

23 DEC 1977

Date

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

CI 031-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : B. Hugh Tovar
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH : Chief, Career Management Staff
Manpower and Support Branch/Contract:

SUBJECT : Contract Amendment for
Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

1. Action Requested: It is requested that the contract
   for Bruce A. BERTOTALLY, an Independent Contractor, be
   amended retroactive to 1 June 1977 deleting the last sentence
   of paragraph 3, concerning the taxability of operational
   travel by his wife, of a previous amendment effective 1 June
1977. It is further requested that a one-time payment of
      $1,404 to BERTOTALLY be authorized to offset the tax he is
      required to pay on the $3,100 which represents his wife's
      travel expenses on their last operational trip abroad, which
      appeared on BERTOTALLY's W-2 form for 1977 as additional
      taxable income.

2. Background: After CI Staff assumed responsibility
   for BERTOTALLY in July 1976, based on requirements developed
   by the field, he was asked if he would be willing to under-
   take occasional operational trips abroad for the purpose of
   briefing and lecturing friendly liaison services and other
   high-level foreign officials. BERTOTALLY agreed, but was
   adamant that he would only do so if the Agency would allow
   his wife to accompany him not only for purposes of companion-
   ship but also to enhance his security. Because this was his
   condition to such overseas operational travel and because it
   was felt her presence would contribute to his good morale,
   effectiveness in the performance of his mission, and also
   preclude his possibly creating potentially embarrassing
   incidents for us and the host liaison services; Chief,

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012208

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

CI Staff made a personal commitment to BERTOTALLY that he could indeed have his wife accompany him on any operational trips abroad, if he chose to have her do so, and that her travel expenses would be borne by the Agency. It was understood that her travel expenses would be limited to the cost of her travel and per diem.

Subsequent to this agreement BERTOTALLY took three separate trips abroad accompanied by his wife and one quick trip to Mexico accompanied by his case officer. No problems developed following the first two trips. Vouchers submitted after each trip, claiming their joint costs as operational expenses, were honored without question. However, following their last joint trip abroad her travel expenses of $3,100 were interpreted as additional taxable income. BERTOTALLY considers this a violation of the commitment made to him and has demanded that the Agency pay him a sum equivalent to the additional Federal and state taxes he will have to pay as a result of our unilateral decision on this matter.

Presently we already have three separate trips abroad planned for BERTOTALLY during 1978. We are convinced that unless we reimburse him for the $1,404 additional tax he must pay for 1977 and assure him that his wife can accompany him on future operational trips abroad at Agency expense and without having such expenses declared as additional in- come, he will refuse to go on any more trips abroad on our behalf..

3. All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

CONCUR:

B. Hugh Tovar

B. Hugh Tovar

26 Jan 78
Date

C/CMS/MSB/C

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. Bortotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 9 October 1977 paragraph four entitled "Compensation" is amended by deleting the figure $33,000 as it appears therein and by substituting in lieu thereof the figure $35,327. Said paragraph is also modified to provide that subsequent augmentation of your basic fee, based upon cost-of-living increases, will be individually authorized by contract amendment at appropriate times as requested and certified by the responsible Government official.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

/s/ Rogers C. Brooks
Contracting Officer

E2IMPDET
CL by: 063837

RCG/ngs
1-13-78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

5 1978

CI-001-78

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION : Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : B. Hugh Tovar Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

THROUGH : Chief, Carcer Management Staff Manpower and Support Branch/Contracts

SUBJECT : Contract Amendment for George Martin Rosnek

1. Action Requested: It is requested that the contract for Mr. George Martin Rosnek, an Independent Contractor, be amended retroactive to 9 October 1977 to increase his compensation from $33,000 per annum to $35,327. This represents a cost of living increase of 7.05 per cent. (It is further requested that a clause be included in Mr. Rosnek's contract to the effect that he is entitled to the equivalent of any future cost-of-living increases granted to Agency employees.)

2. Background: Mr. Rosnek was recruited by the Agency in Switzerland in 1962 and promised $25,000 per year while working as an agent in place. He later defected to this country. In July 1976 responsibility for him was transferred from the Office of Security to the CI Staff and he continues to be of great assistance to this Staff as well as to the FBI.

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012208

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

The remuneration that he receives from the Agency is his
family's sole means of support. He was given cost-of-living
increases in the past and when CI Staff assumed responsibility
for him he was assured by the Chief, CI Staff that he would
continue to receive such increases in the future. In early
December 1977 he inquired why his pay did not already reflect
the 7.05 per cent increase given to Agency employees in October.
We believe it to be in the best interests of the US Government
to honor all commitments made to him and to assure that he
continues to identify himself positively with the Agency.

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as
amended, remain in full force and effect.


B. Hugh Tovar

CONCUR:


C/CMS/MSB/C


Date

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

14 November 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM: Chief, PCS/CSS/B&F
Terrell W. Hutchison

SUBJECT: Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

REFERENCE: A. Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977
B. Our Memorandum of 28 September 1977

In regards to referenced memorandums, we were telephonically advised by your office that subject's contract was being amended to provide that the travel expenses of subject's wife represented taxable compensation. As we are nearing the end of the tax year, It would be appreciated if the amendment could be provided in the near future in order that these payments can be included in subject's earning's statements. Thanks.

![signature]

Terrell W. Hutchison

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061922


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

29 June 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : Chief, PCS/CSS/B&F
Terrell W. Hutchison

SUBJECT : Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

1. We are in receipt of a copy of subject contract
   amendment dated 27 June 1977. To administer the conditions
   of this amendment, there are two questions which come to
   mind:

a. The amendment provides, that travel of subject's
dependent wife may be authorized "when it is
determined by the responsible Governmont official
that such travel will support and best serve
operational interests and objectives." Under the
provisions of HR 22-2a (18) (now in the process of
amendment), TDY travel for dependents of an employee
must be approved by a Deputy Director. Further,
under the OGC ruling 77-1264, TDY travel for a
dependent "should not be authorized, save the
Deputy Director's discretion. It should be changed
to preclude any possible interpretation of which
would give rise to TDY junkets for wives and depen-
dents at Government expense." While it is recognized
that subject is in fact an Independent Contractor,
the entire subject of dependents TDY travel is a
delicate issue, and because of this, we ask that
your office identify the level of the "responsible
Government official" who must approve the operational.
necessity travel of subject's wife.

# SECRET

![image of the reference line on the right side of the document]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

b. Query, if the TDY travel of subject's wife is in fact properly approved, not as an operational necessity, but for matters "essential to her health", do these payments in fact become taxable income. The regulations define an Independent Contractor as a self-employed individual who may be paid a fee for certain services or products, and generally contracts provide for reimbursement for necessary operational expenses. We have no difficulty in certifying the wife's travel when it can be classified as an operational necessity. However, as both references provide authority only to Deputy Directors to approve dependent operational TDY travel, this also gives rise as to what level of authority is required to authorize travel for a dependent wife to accompany her husband on a TDY trip "as a matter essential to her health." It is requested that we be advised of the level of the "resonsible Covernment official" who can approve such travel. Further, as subject's contract draws a line between the operational necessity travel and that travel essential to her health, we would appreciate being advised if the non-operational travel payments for subject's wife represents taxable in- come.

Terrell W. Hutchison

PCS/CSS/BEF/TWHutchison:nr

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 C/Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

- 2

![IMPDET CL BY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# SECRET

28 September 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM: Chief, PCS/CSS/B&F
Terrell W. Hutchison

SUBJECT: Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (S)

REFERENCE: Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977

A response to our referenced memorandum (copy attached) would be appreciated.

Terrell W. Hutchison

28 September 1977
PCS/CSS/B&F/T. W. Hutchison:nrr

Distribution:
* Orig. & 1 - CPD
* 1 - B&F files

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061922


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

7 Oct. 1977

Ar of this date a full reach has been made of CPD for the eabouts of cubject's file. Our record indicate that it var charged out to Jim Hai in July probably in refertare to cuertion raised by Terry Hutchinson on dependent travel. He has reached and his rery has searched OGC with no cuccace.

On 6 Oct Chuck Sandman John Rizzo and undersigned met with Brad Abernathy con- Terry's uestions. We all agreed that any cume expended on Ber'otally ife travel should be con-idered as taxable additional income that in egard to hi uestion re approval authority for travel - Chief CI. We also covered paint ar totravel of ou independent contacto in conformence with Govt rule and Reg. and Abernathy and John R. indicated acceptance of the fuation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# Mr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 June 1977 paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other Expenses" is amended by expanding its scope to authorize the concurrent, voluntary, travel of your dependent wife, including the appropriate rate of per diem, when it is determined by the responsible Government official that such travel will support and best serve operational interests and objectives. The extent and destinations of such dependent travel will be as designated and defined by such official and, when in the course of such travel it is determined as a matter of operational necessity or as a matter essential to her health and well being that she remain at some particular place in the course of such travel while you continue on to specific geographical locations in fulfillment of operational missions, continuation of her per diem will be authorized for such periods. All montes advanced or reimbursed you hereunder by the Government and for the purposes herein indicated are determined to be additional Income to you and as such considered to be taxable for federal income tax purposes.

It is also understood and agreed by all concerned, and is herein so confirmed, that this amendment is in no way intended or should be construed as obligating your dependent wife to accompany you on travel abroad, under the terms of this agreement. It is also understood and agreed that the U. S. Government neither infers or assumes any liability of whatsoever nature concerning her health and well being if she freely elects to undertake such travel.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

/a/ Rogera C. Brooke

BY Contracting Officer

E2IMPDET-

CL BY: 063837

KOS/SP

10/17/77


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

17 October 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief PCS/CSS/B&F

FROM : DC/CPD

SUBJECT : Contract amended Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

REFERENCE : Your memorandum, subject as above, dated 29 June 1977

Your referenced memorandum raised two basic questions in regard to an amendment effected to the contract of Bruce Bertotally. To determine the answers a meeting was held 6 October 1977 with discussion and decision by those present: Brad Abernathy SSA/DDA, John Rizzo for the General Counsel and Charles Sandman with Rogers C. Brooks for CPD.

In subparagraph (a) of your memorandum you requested identification of the level of the responsible Government official who must approve the operational necessity travel of subject's wife. The Chief CI Staff was so identified.

Subparagraph (b) basically related to the taxability or non taxability of funds made available and relating to the dependent wife's travel. It was the consensus and agreement of all present that all such funds should be considered as additional compensation and taxable.

/s/ Rogers C. Brooks

Rogers C. Brooks.

E2IMPDET
CL BY: 063837


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

28 September 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : Chief, PCS/CSS/B&F
Terrell W. Hutchison

SUBJECT : Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (S)

REFERENCE : Our Memorandum of 29 June 1977

A response to our referenced memorandum (copy attached) would be appreciated.

![signature] Terrell W. Hutchison

28 September 1977
PCS/CSS/B&F/T. W. Hutchison:nrr

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061922


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET

29 June 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM: Chief, PCS/CSS/B&F
Terrell W. Hutchison

SUBJECT: Contract Amendment - Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

1. We are in receipt of a copy of subject contract amendment dated 27 June 1977. To administer the conditions of this amendment, there are two questions which come to mind:

a. The amendment provides, that travel of subject's dependent wife may be authorized "when it is determined by the responsible Government official that such travel will support and best serve operational interests and objectives." Under the provisions of IHR 22-2a (18) (now in the process of amendment), TDY travel for dependents of an employee must be approved by a Deputy Director. Further, under the OCC ruling 77-1264, TDY travel for a dependent "should not be authorized, save the Deputy Director's discretion. It should be changed to preclude any possible interpretation of which would give rise to TDY junkets for wives and dependents at Government expense." While it is recognized that subject is in fact an Independent Contractor, the entire subject of dependents TDY travel is a delicate issue, and because of this, we ask that your office identify the level of the "responsible Government official" who must approve the operational necessity travel of subject's wife.


# SECRET

![JMPDET CL BY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

b. Query, if the TDY travel of subject's wife
is in fact properly approved, not as an operational
necessity, but for matters "essential to her health",
do these payments in fact become taxable income. The
regulations define an Independent Contractor as a
self-employed individual who may be paid a fee for
certain services or products, and generally contracts
provide for reimbursement for necessary operational
expenses. We have no difficulty in certifying the
wife's travel when it can be classified as an operational
necessity. However, as both references provide authority
only to Deputy Directors to approve dependent operational
TDY travel, this also gives rise as to what level of
authority is required to authorize travel for a dependent
wife to accompany her husband on a TDY trip "as a matter
essential to her health." It is requested that we be
advised of the level of the "resonsible Government
official" who can approve such travel. Further, as
subject's contract draws a line between the operational
necessity travel and that travel essential to her health,
we would appreciate being advised if the non-operational
travel payments for subject's wife represents taxable in-
come.

Terrell W. Hutchison

PCS/CSS/B&F/TWHutchison:nr

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - C/Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

![IMPDET CL BY261722]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

CI 373-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

FROM : B. Hugh Tovar
Chief, Counterintelligence Staff

SUBJECT : Amendment to Contract for
Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

1. Action Requested: It is requested that paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other expenses" of Bruce A. BERTOTALLY's contract dated 1 March 1970, as amended, be further amended effective 1 June 1977 to permit his wife to accompany him on travel abroad.

2. Background: As an independent contractor Bruce A. BERTOTALLY'S contract makes no provision for his wife to accompany him when traveling abroad at our request. This amendment will make such travel possible when at the option and direction of the Central Intelligence Agency it is believed that such travel will materially improve his cover and security and substantially contribute to the performance of his mission. The requested change in paragraph five (5) should in no way obligate BERTOTALLY's wife to accompany her husband on travel abroad nor does it assume any liability if she freely elects to make such travel.

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

Signed: Leonard McCoy
B. Hugh Tovar

EZ IMPDET
CL BY 019359

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effectivell March 1970.

Effective 1 June 1977 paragraph five (5) entitled "Allowances, Travel and other Expenses" is amended by expanding its scope to authorize the concurrent, voluntary, travel of your dependent wife, including the appropriate rate of per diem, when it is determined by the responsible Government official that such travel will support and best serve operational interests and objectives. The extend and destinations of such dependent travel will be as designated and defined by such official and, when in the course of such travel it is determined as a matter of operational necessity or as a matter essential to her health and well being that she remain at some particular place in the course of such travel while you contine on to specific geographical locations in fulfillment of operational missions, continuation of her per dien vill be authorized for such partods.

It is also understood and agreed by all concerned, and is herein so confirmed, that this amendment is in no way intedded or should be construed as obligating your dependent wife to accompany you on travel abroad, under the core of this agreement. It is also understood and agreed that the U. S. Covernment nofthor infero or assumes any liability of whatsoever nature concorning her health and well being if she freely alects to undertaka ouch travel.

Reimbursement, payment and accounting for the foregoing shall be in substantial conformance with CIA redas and regulations.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES COVERIMENT

/s/ Ergers C. Brooks
BY
Contracting Officer

SECRET

E2IMPDET
CL by: 063837


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. Bertotally

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1975, said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of twenty-five thousand, two hundred fifty dollars ($25,250) per year."

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

![signature]

By Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Bruce A. Bertotally

WITNESS:

APPROVED:

MICROFILMED
JULY 19.

SECRET

E2IMPDET
CL by: 063837


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Dear

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1976, said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of Twenty-Six Thousand Five Hundred Thirteen Dollars ($26,513) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY

Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

April 8, 1976

Date

WITNESS:

Bine Aihe

Sopul 1976

Date

APPROVED:

J76

Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office of Security.

![signature of Edwin A. Reetz]
Edwin A. Reetz
Chief, Eudget and Fiscal Brach
Office of Security

MICROFILMED
JULY 1977

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY

Mr. Bruce A.. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 1 October 1976, said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of Twenty-Eight Thousand One Hundred and Three dollars ($23,103.00) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.


ACCEPTED:

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

WITNESS:

![signature]

APPROVED:
MICRO ILMED
JULY 1977


CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

![signature] 12 OCT 1976

BY
Special Contracting Officer

APPROVED:

![signature]
Chief, Contract Personnel Division
October 12, 1976
Date.

![signature]
Date

1976
Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in CI Staff.

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY

![signature] Ruth I. Malecki 10/29/76
Personnel Officer
CI Staff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 December 1976 said contract is amended by deleting the figures $12.50 and $603.52 as they appear in subparagraph (a) of paragraph six (6) entitled "Negotiated Benefits" and by substituting in lieu thereof the figures $18.75 and $900.04 respectively.

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BY Charles W. S
Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

WITNESS:

![signature of Witness]

APPROVED:

![signature of Approval]

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in CI Staff.

![signature of Ruth I. Malecki] 12/14/76
Ruth I. Malecki
Personnel Officer

MICROFILMED
JULY 1977


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Covernment, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 16 February 1977 paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" is amended by authorizing you a one-time, lump sum, taxable payment in the amount of $2,100.

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remali in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES COVERNMENT

![Signature of Chole W. Hulle]

BY Chole W. Hulle
Contracting Officer

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in CI Staff.

![Signature of Ruth I. Malecki]

Ruth I. Malecki
Personnel Officer
23 Februsy 1977.

MICROFILMED
JULY 1

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE OLY

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, аз amended.

Effective 1 March 1977, said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of Thirty-three thousand dollars ($33,000) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

![signature] CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

![signature] by Charles W. Sudu Special Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

![signature]
George Martin Rosnek

May 3, 1977
Date

WITNESS:

![signature]

3 May 1977
Date

MICROFILMED
JULY 1977

APPROVED:

![signature]

4 May 1977
Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in CI Staff.

![signature]
Ruth T. Malecki
Personnel Officer

ADMINISTRATIVE
INTERNAL USE OKLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1770.

Effective 1 March 1973 said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of Twenty-Two Thousand Two Hundred Fifty Dollars ($22,250) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
As Represented by the
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
By:

![signature of Kenrith C. Rushmo]

Contracting Officer.

ACCEPTED:

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY Date: March 16, 1973

WITNESS:

/s/ Bruce L. Solie Date: 16 March 1973

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office of Security.

![signature of Edwin A. Reetz] 20 MAR 1973
Edwin A. Reetz
Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch
Office of Security

![unreadable symbol]

SECRET

E2IMPDET
CLby: 026715


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY:

`064010`
`20/71`

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1974, said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of Twenty-Three Thousand Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($23,750) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

![signature]
BY
Special Contracting Officer

![signature]

ACCEPTED:

![signature]
7/75

![signature]
May 9, 1974
Date

/s/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

WITNESS:

![signature]

![signature]
9 May 1974
Date

APPROVED:

![signature]

![signature]
17 May 74
Date

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office of Security.

![signature]
E2IMPDET

Edwin A. Reetz
CL by: 063837
Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch
Office of Security

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# Nº 10392

BENTOTALLY, Bruce A.

SPONSORING COMPONENT: Office of Security/SRS

CASE OFFICER: Bruce L. Solie

PERSONAL DATA: Independent Contractor

EFFECTIVE DATE: 1 March 1969

CURRENT ACS POST: Washington, D. C.

FUTURE ACS POST (EFFECTIVE DATE): Washington, D. C.

DEPENDENT INFORMATION (Noms NOT Required): ATTACH FORM 313 OR W-4

RELATIONSHIP, DATE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP, RESIDE WITH SUBFET, IF NOT, WHERE

IS SPOUSE UNDER CONTRACT OR EMPLOYED BY WOFACT: NO

IF YES, PROVIDE PSEUDONYM

COVER DATA: H. A.

EFFECTIVE DATE OF COVER

SOCIAL SECURITY TAXES TO BE WITHHELD BY COVER: NO

OFFICIAL COVER: UNREAD

NONOFFICIAL COVER: PROPRIETARY, DEVISED

OTHER (Specify)

COVER FACILITY CATFTONYN

COVER, SALARY AND ALLOWANCES (Per Annum)

SALARY

ALLOWANCE

PAY PERIOD USED BY COVER: WEEKLY, BIWEEKLY, MONTHLY, SEMI-MONTHLY

TYPE OF TAX DOCUMENTATION TO BE ISSUED BY COVER

REMARKS (Pertinent to Personnel or Cover Data)

WOFACT DATA:

PAYMENT OF COMPENSATION:

HEADQUARTERS

FIELD

(EFFECTIVE DATE)

(AMOUNT)

WOFACT TO REPORT:

LNREAD 1099

LNGOLD 1099

DEVISED FACILITY 1099

DEVISED FACILITY ACCOUNT HO

LNREAD W-1

LNGOLD W-2

DEVISED FACILITY W-1

DEVISED FACILITY W-2

IF SUBJECT IS UNDER NONOPHCIAL COVER CONSULTATION WITH THE COVERT TAX COMMITTEE IS REQUIRED

A TAX-ASSESSMENT

WILL: Not Applicable. WILL NOT BE ASSIGNED BY THE COVERT TAX COMMITTEE

COMMENTS: * Prior to preparing Form, call Mr. Reetz, X5345, for address

Income and social security taxes will be withheld. O/SEC will handle filing of state estimated tax returns.

DATE: 6/25/69

SIGNATURE CENTRAL COVER STAMP: Lange S. Lowell

AUTHENTICATION DATE: 6/25/69

SIGNATURE RESPONSIBLE OFFICER: Bruce L. Solie

DISTRIBUTION SIGNED ORIG. TO OFFICE OF FINANCE, COPY TO CENTRAL COVER, COPY TO FILE

FORM 313 a USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

NOTE: DEFACH THIS PORTION OF FORM AND DISTRIBUTE SEPARATELY

Nº 10392

IF SOCIAL SECURITY NO IS NOT AVAILABLE, HAVE FORM NO 55-5, "APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCOUNTS." COMPLETED AS PROVIDED IN DETAILED PROCEDURES

SOCIAL SECURITY NO: 577-74-5121

ADDRESS OF RECORD (IN US): * See above

ADDRESS (foreign)

DISTRIBUTION SIGNED ORIG TO OFFICE OF FINANCE, COPY TO CENTRAL COVER, COPY TO FILE

FORM 313a USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

Empl # 064010

Per your request, the following is a breakdown of additional retroactive salary for the period 1 March -31 May 1977. This will be included with normal salary check for the month of June.

| Gross    | Fica   | Fedtax | Stx   | Net    |
| -------- | ------ | ------ | ----- | ------ |
| 1,224.27 | *20.40 | 401.10 | 85.44 | 717.33 |

New normal salary effective 1-30 June 1977 is as follows.

| Gross    | Fica | Fedtax | Stx    | Hosp  | Net     |
| -------- | ---- | ------ | ------ | ----- | ------- |
| 2,750.00 | 0    | 608.07 | 170.08 | 18.75 | 1953.10 |

*Fica Max reached for tax year. Stopped effective 1 June 1977

MICROFILMED
JULY 1977


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SPEED LETTER

TO: Chief, C&TD/OF

ATTN: Special Payroll Ops - Sandy Smith

REPLY REQUESTED

DATE
2 May 1975

LETTER NO.

FROM: OS/B&F Edwin A. Reetz
4E71 Hqs

SUBJECT: Bruce A. BERTOTALLY #064010 - Independent Contractor

Attached is an amendment to Subject's contract increasing his compensation from $23,750 to $25,250 per annum effective 1 March 1975. Withholding of North Carolina state tax should be increased from $125 to $130 per month concurrent with the effective date of this amendment. I trust it is not too late to include the increase plus adjustment for March with his April pay. Your assistance is appreciated as always.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Mr. BERTOTALLY (P)



15!

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

MICROFILMED
JULY 1977


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970.

Effective 1 March 1971 said contract is amended by revising the first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "Compensation" to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the Central Intelligence Agency at the rate of Nineteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars (19,500.00) per year."

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

> ![stamp: DOC. MICRO. SER. MICROFILMED]

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
As Represented by the
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
By:

> ![signature: Kenneth C. Rushimach]

Kenneth C. Rushimach
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

/S/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY Date: 12 February 1971

WITNESS:

/S/ Bruce L. Solie Date: 12 February 1971

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office of Security.

> ![signature: Edwin A. Reetz]

Edwin A. Reetz
Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch
Office of Security

> ![stamp: Office of Security]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Dear Mr. Bertotally:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Central Intelligence Agency, effective 1 March 1970, as amended.

Effective 1 March 1972 said contract, as amended, is further, amended as set forth below:

(a) The first sentence of paragraph four (4) entitled "COMPENSATION" is revised to read as follows:

"You will be compensated by the CIA at the rate of Twenty-one Thousand Dollars ($21,000) per year."

(b) Sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph six (6) entitled "NEGOTIATED BENEFITS" is deleted, and in lieu thereof the following is substituted:

"6(a): You presently have a private health insurance plan for yourself and your wife. It is understood and agreed that you will bear a portion of the total premium cost of said plan; this organization will bear the remainder. Your portion is herein established at $12.50 per month and will be deducted from contractual payments due you. The total annual premium cost of said plan is presently $603.52. If required, the Government's portion may be paid yearly, in advance."

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

Please acknowledge by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
As Represented by the
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
By:

![Signature of Kenneth C. Rushmach]

Kenneth C. Rushmach
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

/S/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY Date: February 29, 1972

WITNESS:

/S/ Bruce L. Solie Date: February 29, 1972

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office of Security.

![Signature of Edwin A. Reetz]

Edwin A. Reetz
Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch
Office of Security

![MICROFILMED]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SECRET

Mr. Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY:

Reference is made to your contract with the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, as represented by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, effective 1 March 1969. Effective 1 March 1970 said contract is herein terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto, and in lieu thereof the following agreement is substituted.

The UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, as represented by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, hereby contracts with you under the following terms and conditions:

1. STATUS. Your legal status under this contract is that of an independent contractor or consultant. You are not considered an employee of the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT by virtue of this contract. You will be required to hold yourself available at all times to fulfill requeste made of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY or to respond to tasks requested of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. You will refrain from engaging in other gainful employment or occupation untill approval has been received from the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. Instructions furnished to you pursuant to this contract and within the terms hereof shall be as binding upon you as if included in the written terms beroof

2. COMMUNICATION. In all relationships with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY you will accept requests, tasks and relevant instructions from an individual hereinafter referred to as the "Authorized Government Represent tive." He will be fully authorized to discuss matters with you relating to your responsibilities under this contract Including, but not limited to, cover arrangements, place of assignment, conditions of work or any other matters relating to your relationship with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

3. COVER AND SECURITY. In the performance of your responsibilities hereunder, appropriate arrangements will be made regarding cover and general security conditions. You may be required to execute certain documents in the course of establishing cover arrangements but it is to be expressly understood that such documents are solely for the purpose of cover and security and confer no additional legal rights or obligations and that all of your rights and obligations with respect to the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY derive solely from this agreement. In connection with cover and security you will be provided from time to time specific instructions by the Authorized Government Representative and you will be required to adhere precisely to such instructions.

![Microfilmed July 1970 Doc Micro Ser]

![Exempt from automatic downgrading and declassification]

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# COMPENSATION.

You will be compensated by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY at the rate of Eighteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($18,500.00) per year. Payment of this compensation shall be monthly in accordance with arrangements acceptable to the Authorized Government Representative. This sum is subject to Federal income taxes and to such income tax laws as are applicable to your place of residence. Additionally, this compensation is subject to FICA taxes. The current rates and method of payment will be in accordance with applicable laws and the security instructions issued by the Authorized Government Representative. Paynent of all taxes and preparation of necessary tax returns are your personal obligation and responsibility but in accord with appropriate security instructions which will be furnished by the Authorized Government Representative.

# ALLOWANCES, TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES.

If. In the course of fulfilling your responsibilities under this agreement, monetary allowances would be payable under general UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT rules and regulations, you will be paid such monetary allowances in substantial accordance with those laws and regulations. If, in the course of this contract, you are directed to travel or are authorized to Incur other expenses, reimbursement for expenses will be made by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY in substantial accordance with applicable CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY regulations.

# NEGOTIATED BENEFITS.

a. You presently have a private health insurance plan for yourself and your wife paid until lata December 1970. Prior to the expiration date of the current policy the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY hay the option of paying premiums on the current policy until I March 1972 or enrolling you in a health insurance program for selected contract individuals of the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY subject to all the terms and conditions of that program. The CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will pay the premiums on elther Insurance coverage until 1 March 1972. However, any new contract will include an appropriate clause providing that this organization will bear a portion of the total premium cost of any health insurance and you will bear the remainder.

b. The CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will endeavor to arrange for you to secure a term life insurance policy with a face value of $15,000.00: This policy contains no additional accidental death benefits. The premiums for the policy will be your personal responsibility. The current premium charge is $12.00 per month.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

c. (1) Subject to the priorities of work you are herein authorized twenty-one (21) work days vacation with pay per contract year to be taken only at times and places approved in advance by the Authorized Government Representative. Vacation time is not accruable and will not be carried over from year to year. Payment for unused vacation time will not be authorized.

(2) If Incapacitated for work due to illness, injury and the like, your compensation may be continued for periods not to exceed a total of thirteen (13) working days per contract year. Periods of absence in excess of three (3) consecutive days will require a doctor's certificate. Like vacation time, this benefit la not accruable and will not be carried over from year to year. Cash payment in lieu of this benefit will not be authorized.

7. SECRECY OBLIGATION. You will be required to keep forever secret this agreement and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the espionage lawe, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations. Your relationship with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY and this contract must be kept secret and you may not discuss any aspect of this relationship and contract with any person other than the Authorized Government Representative or such other person as he may specifically approve.

8. UNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENTS. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges, or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

9. TERM. This agreement is effective as of 1 March 1970 and shall be for a term of two (2) years. At the end of that period this contract shall be deemed to be renewed for another year unless notice of termination has been furnished to you thirty (30) days in advance. Thereafter the contract will be renewed automatically on similar terma and conditions. This contract may be terminated at any time by either party upon furnishing thirty (30) days advance notice. Upon termination of this contract or renewals thereof, including amendments, if any, the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will undertake to assist you in obtaining gainful employment or to to provide continuing compensation to assure you that you will be able to maintain a reasonable standard of living. This undertaking is contingent upon your fulfilling the terms of

> [Figure] A stamp on the bottom indicates that the document contains classified information.
> SECRET
> MICROFILMED
> -1970
> DOC. MICRO. SER.
> GROUP:
> Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

this contract and the continuing compliance with the secrecy obligations imposed on you by paragraph 7 of this contract and the provisions of any secrecy agreement which you have signed with the CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
As Represented by the
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
By:

/s/ Kenneth C. Rushmack

Contracting Officer

Date: 6 March 1970

ACCEPTED:

/S/ Bruce A. BERTOTALLY

Date: 6 March 1970

WITNESS:

/S/ Bruce L. Solie

Date: 6 March 1970

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the
Office of Security.

![Signature of Edwin A. Reetz]
Edwin A. Reetz

19 MAR 1970

Chief, Budget and Fiscal Branch
Office of Security

SECRET

MICROFILMED
"L-0 1970."
DOC. MICRO. SER.

![image of Excluded from automatic declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

Bruce A. BERTOTALLY (P)

Dear Mr. BERTOTALLY,

The UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, as represented by the
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, hereby contracts with you under
the following terms and conditions:

1.  STATUS. Your legal status under this contract is that of an
    independent contractor or consultant. You are not considered an
    employee of the UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT by virtue of this
    contract. You will be required to hold yourself available at all times
    to fulfill requests made of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
    or to respond to tasks requested of you by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
    AGENCY. You will refrain from engaging in other gainful employment
    or occupation until approval has been received from the CENTRAL
    INTELLIGENCE AGENCY. Instructions furnished to you pursuant to
    this contract and within the terms hereof shall be as binding upon you
    as if included in the written terma hereof.

2.  COMMUNICATION, In all relationships with the CENTRAL
    INTELLIGENCE AGENCY you will accept requests, tasks and relevant
    instructions from an individual hereinafter referred to as the
    "Authorized Government Representative." He will be fully authorized
    to discuso matters with you relating to your responsibilities under this
    contract including, but not limited to, cover arrangements, place of
    assignment, conditions of work or any other matters relating to your
    relationship with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

3.  COVER AND SECURITY. In the performance of your
    responsibilities hereunder, appropriate arrangements will be made.
    regarding cover and general security conditions. You may be required

> [Figure: Microfilmed stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

to execute certain documents in the course of establishing cover arrangements but it is to be expressly understood that such documents are solely for the purpose of cover and security and confer no additional legal rights or obligations and that all of your rights and obligations with respect to the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY derive solely from this agreement. In connection with cover and security you will be provided from time to time specific instructions by the Authorized Government Representative and you will be required to adhere precisely to such instructions.

4. COMPENSATION. You will be compensated by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY at the rate of Sixteen Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($16, 500. 00) per year. Payments of this compensation shall be monthly in accordance with arrangements acceptable to the Authorized Government Representative. This sum is subject to Federal income taxes and to such income tax laws as are applicable to your place of residence. Additionally, this compensation is subject to FICA taxes. The current rates and method of payment will be in accordance with applicable laws and the security instructions issued by the Authorized Government Representative. To assist you in establishing yourself, the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will assist you in procuring an automobile and necessary household furnishings, providing funds therefor, up to a maximum of Eight Thousand Dollars ($8,000.00). Payment of all taxes and preparation of necessary tax returns are your personal obligation and responsibility but in accord with appropriate security instructions which will be furnished by the Authorized Government Representative.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

5. PLACE OF RESIDENCE. In the interests of security, you will be required to live in such State, area, and house or apartment as is specifically approved by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY after mutual discussion and due consideration of all circumstances. All of the expenses of such leased house or apartment will be borne by you and the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will not be obligated to pay any such expenses.

6. ALLOWANCES, TRAVEL AND OTHER EXPENSES, If, in the course of fulfilling your responsibilities under this agreement, monetary allowances would be payable under general UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT rules and regulations, you will be paid such monetary, allowances in substantial accordance with those laws and regulations. If, in the course of this contract, you are directed to travel or are authorized to incur other expenses, reimbursement for expenses will be made by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY in substantial accordance with applicable CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY regulations.

7. HOSPITALIZATION AND MEDICAL CARE. The CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will provide you with reasonable insurance covering medical care and hospitalization equivalent to that which could be obtained through standard insurance policies; or, the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY may provide directly such medical care and hospitalization.

8. SECRECY OBLIGATION. You will be required to keep forever secret this agreement and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such

-3-

MICROFILMED
JUL - 6 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the espionage laws, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations. Your relationship with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY and this contract must be kept secret and you may not discuss any aspect of this relationship and contract with any person other than the Authorized Government Representative or such other person as he may specifically approve.

9. UNAUTHORIZED COMMITMENTS, No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges, or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY,

10. TERM. This agreement is effective as of 1 March 1969
    and shall be for a term of one (1) year. At the end of that period this contract shall be deemed to be renewed for another year unless notice of termination has been furnished to you thirty (30) days in advance of the elapse of one (1) year. Thereafter the contract will be renewed automatically on similar terms and conditions. This contract may be terminated at any time by either party upon furnishing thirty (30) days advance notice. Upon termination of this contract or renewals thereof, including amendments, If any, the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY will undertake to assist you in obtaining gainful employment or to provide continuing compensation to assure you that you will be able to maintain reasonable standard of living. This undertaking is contingent upon your fulfilling the terms of this contract and the continuing compliance with the secrecy obligations

-4-

> [Figure: MICROFILMED JULA 1970 DOC. MICRO. SER.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

imposed on you by paragraph 8 of this contract and the provisions of any secrecy agreement which you have signed with the CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
As Represented by the
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
By:


Contracting Officer

Date:

ACCEPTED:

Date:

WITNESS:

Date:

Certified to be a true copy of the signed original which is on file in the Office of Security.



HOWARD J. OSBORN
DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

-5-

MICROFILMED
"L-0 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)