# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> RETURN TO
> (Background Use Only)
> Do Not Reproduce

20 February 1961

21 FEB 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM : Chief, SB/2 Desk

SUBJECT: COVER, (NONOFFICIAL) - GENERAL
(Proposal for A&E Assessment of Potential REDSKIN Agent Candidates)
#90682

1. Reference is made to my previous memorandum pertaining to the proposal to initiate a change of policy with respect to the processing of potential REDSKIN Agents.

2. As will be noted, it was initially recommended that potential REDSKIN Agent candidates be provided with an A&E assessment by CTR prior to disclosure of Agency interest in them and prior to the disclosure of any classified information. This assessment will be conducted utilizing a (nonofficial cover). It was initially suggested that TSD's Psychological Assessment Associates firm now used by Dr. GITTINGER be used for this purpose. If the A&E assessment were favorable, Security would be requested to conduct a full investigation of the Subject and he would be subsequently contacted under alias CIA credentials. At that point, he would be requested to perform a mission for us and would be given requirements for same if he agreed to accept such assignment.

3. Attention is invited to the attached memorandum dated 8 February 1961. A copy of this memorandum was furnished to the writer with the verbal request that credit checks be conducted on all the staff A&E members mentioned. Prior to the initiation of credit checks, it was verbally agreed between the undersigned and Mr. Thomas STRANGE, CCG/NC, that no credit check would be conducted on Jacob GOLDER, in view of the fact that it was known the latter was recently surfaced as an Agency employee. The requested credit checks were completed on or about 16 February 1961 and the results verbally transmitted to Mr. Thomas STRANGE.

4. As of this date, CCG feels that they may have to establish another notional cover for this program. It is understood that this cover will be utilized in addition to utilizing the (Psychological Assessment Associates.) Pending a further request in this matter from CCG, no further action is contemplated.

Attachment:
A&E Memo dated 8 Feb. 1961
KUHKE/ewd(2-20-61)

CLOSED

Ervan E. Kuinke, Jr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ATTACHMENT

BRADY, Roger 0.

EOD: 12 September 1951
GS-13
Overt employee of the Agency except for 1957-1959, (Saipan - Navy) Cover
* WH/4 Project

COLDER, Jacob V.

EOD: 3 January 1955
GS-15
Overt employee of the Agency - DAC Cover (overseas use)
* WH/4 Project

GOODRICH, David C.

EOD: 9 April 1956
GS-13
Overt employee of the Agency
* WH/4 Project

KOMMERL, Alice F.

EOD: 20 October 195
GS-13
Overt employee of the Agency, 1950 - DAC Cover for three months

LAU, James B.

EOD: 21 September 1951
GS-15
Covert employee of the Agency
1951-1954 Overt Status with CIA
1954-1955 Army Status Overseas
1955-1957 U.S. (Foreign Service)
1957-Present Army Civilian Cover

McKEE, Michael G.

EOD: 25 January 1960
GS-12
Overt employee of the Agency

* Participated in TDYs within the U. S. for WH/4 during 1950.
  Cover for these trips was provided by the operating division.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)