# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## AMLASH/1 - Paris Station Aspest

Paris Station involvement with the ANLASH case began in 1962, after AMLASH/1 came to Paris after attending the Helsinki Youth Festival that year. In Helsinid, AMLASH/1 was contested by UNRUMELE/2 (an asset of the Paris Station who attended the Festival for purposes of disruption) and by other KUBARK assets. It is not clear from our files just when ANLASH/1 was "recruited" but it appears that he was recruited during or shortly after the Festival.

In Paris he was in contest with Peter J. KIMINGHAM (probably in alias although I know that ANLASH/1 was at KIMINORAN's home upon cocasion). In 1962 AMLASH/1 was given training in explosives by IMX (I believe) upon request of the Paris Station. He appears to have returned to FBRUMS in late 1962. It is not town if other Paris Station personnal were in content with ANLASWI during that period.

APEASE/1 Rent arrived in Paris on ih September 1963, coming from the International Games held in Porto Alegre, Brasil, where he was in contact with TYPIC officers.
At this point AMBFORT/1 (now QUSPORT) was in contact with ANLASH/1.in Paris and AMWHIP/1 was another comme channel (the cas being med primarily by Bos.). The madquarters TYPIC officer, ONTRICH (F), arrived in Paris on 3 October 1963 and proked up the contact vith AMLASH/1 which was being maintained by ANSPORT/1 and XINHAN. The metinga with AMLASH/1 took place in  hom as best I remember. These discussions concerned AMLASH/1's plans to assissinete AMTEUO and overthrow his regins.

OSTRICH returned to Parts In late October, after discussions at Headquarters on the cars. ONTRION ad DAIHOLD, who was tay in Paris at the time, not with ANLASH/1 in late Ostober or early November. DAIHOID's participation was due to ANLASH/1 strong desire to talk with some high-level ODYOKS official concerning Ma plans and to obtain ODIOKE blessing if possible. I an at ware of exactly what happened at these mostings but I recedved the impression fron KYMINOHAN that such blessing was given.
LAST/1 returned to PBR on 27 November 1963. It was during this visit to Paris


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

2. 
that STOCKFOOD met AMLASH/1 and AMWHIP/1, presumably in alias but I do not know the details. It was also apparent by the time AMLASH/1 left that he knew UNSHA FU/5 was working for KUBARK and we knew that UNSHA FU/9 was aware to some extent of AMLASH/1's plans (UNSHA FU/9 had been recruited by KUBARK at that time). It was agreed that AMLASH/1 would need the address of UNSHA FU/13's parents for a/w letters to KUBARK (UNSHA FU/13 is wife of UNSHA FU/9).

AMLASH/1 first arrived in Paris in late November or early December 1964. AMWHIP/1 STOCKHOOD and ONTRICH (tdy from Headquarters) met with him in Paris (this time in a safe house of the Station. AMLASH/1 left for PERUMEN from Madrid on 20 February 1965. During this stay in Paris AMLASH/1 met the following KUBARK staffers and agents:

STOCKFOOD, CLOADER, RODAMER
AMWHIP/1, UNSHA FU/9, UNSHA FU/5, UNSHA FU/13

You will recall that in December 1964 UNSHA FU/5 had a nervous breakdown and AMLASH/1 played an important part in convincing UNSHA FU/5 that he should agree to hospitalization. It was in this connection that CLOADEN and RODAMER met AMLASH/1.

CLOADEN subsequently met with AMLASH/1 two or three times to received reports for STOCKHOOD. These meetings were street meetings or in the home of UNSHA FU/5.

During this stay, AMLASH/1 traveled to Madrid at least once to meet with ANBIDDY/1 and AMBANG/1. I am not aware of results of those meetings except that AMLASH/1 was seeking the physical instruments to carry out his plan to eliminate ANTHO.

There was no additional contact with AMLASH/1 in Paris subsequent to February 1965 but the Station (CLOADEN and HERLEES) did have subsequent contact with UNSHA FU/5, UNSHA FU/9, AMLASH/2 and AMLASH/3. You will recall that it was AMLASH/3 who made the "joking" pitch to HERLEES on 6 May 1965. AMLASH/2 and HELSH/3 were both aware of AMLASH/1 plans.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Paris Station personnel known to AMLASH/1

Peter J. KYMINGHAM

*   not known what alias used. Some meetings were held in KYMINGHAM's hose in 1962/63. It is not known if other staff personnel (other than ONTRICH) were met then by AMLASH/L.

Jul K. STOCKWOOD

*   calias not known for sure but believe ho used "Roberto". AMWHIP/1 knew STOCKWOOD as embassy officer and called him there.

Peter H. GLOADER

*   Known as "Dick". True name not used unless told to AMLASH/1 by UNSHAFT/5 or UNSHAFU/9.

Milton P. RODAMER

*   not AMLASH/1 only once, when transporting UNSHAFT/5 to hospital. Known to all as "Dr. ......" (cant remember aka used).

Dr. Lipsich

*   cleared Dr. at American Hospital, Paris. AMLASH/1 met him briefly when admitting UNSHAFU/5 to hospital.

Walhace A. CROWERY (from MADR)

*   met in 1962 during explosives training in Paris. Details not known.

Agents (involved to some degree)

UNSHAFU/5

UNSHAFT/7

UNSHAFU/13

APLASH/2

AMLASH/9

AMWHIP/1

Peter M. GLOADE

7 March 1966


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)