14-00000
104-10219-10282 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT:

Benson Ferguson MITCHELL,
William Hamilton MARTIN,
Espionage - R

201-989338
1 August 1961

1.  Reference is made to our memorandum of 17 July 1961, captioned as above, and also to Bureau letter dated 22 June 1961, addressed to the Director, National Security Agency, with copy to the Agency, Subject: Benson Ferguson MITCHELL, William Hamilton MARTIN, MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING.

2.  The following information supplements the material on Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASKOU aka DAMAAKOS aka DAMASCUS, reported in paragraph 4 of our 17 July 1961 memorandum, referenced above.

3.  Our representatives in Melbourne advised that Australian Security Service indices reflect that Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASKOU, Greek national born 10 March 1911 at Alexandria, Egypt, arrived in Sydney, Australia, for permanent residence on 26 October 1936, aboard the S. S. STRATHNAVER traveling on Greek Passport No. 2003/1942, issued 8 March 1939 at Alexandria, Egypt. At the time of his arrival in Sydney, DAMASCOU was in possession of Australian Visa No. 4334, issued in Cairo on 18 July 1936. He was described as follows: single, 5 feet 10 inches tall, normal build, brown eyes, black hair, occupation "writer". He departed Australia on 25 May 1943 aboard the S. S. ORONSAY, destination not indicated, and as of 18 July 1961 had not re-ordered Australia.

4.  Our representatives in Mexico City meanwhile had learned that Anastasio Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, sister of the above, on 8 July 1960 applied at the Mexican Consulate in San Antonio, Texas, for a Mexican Tourist Card to enter Mexico to visit her brother Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU, then residing at the hotel.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

New York is ible for an entry permit, she made no mention of any wedding plans. The Mexican Government approved her trip on condition that she deposit with the Consulate a 10,000 Peso bond, as a guarantee of her intention to depart Mexico upon expiration of her tourist card. Mexican Immigration files contain no record of her actual arrival in Mexico following approval of her 8 July 1960 application. The most recent correspondence on this case contained in Mexican files is dated 15 February 1961, reflecting that Anastasie DAMASCO again requested a Tourist Card on or about the date of the letter, at which time her address in the United States was given as c/o Mexican Consul, San Antonio, Texas. In reply to her second application for an entry permit, Mexican authorities again replied with a request that she post a bond in the amount of 10,000 Pesos, to guarantee departure from Mexico upon expiration of her tourist visa. There is no further information currently available on her further travel plans.

c. With reference to Nicolas George DAMASCOU, on basis of the information reported in preceding paragraphs, a recheck by our representatives with officials of the United States Embassy in Mexico City revealed that Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU, born 10 March 1931 at Alexandria, Egypt, holder of Greek Passport 1951 issued in Alexandria, Egypt, on 5 March 1961 and valid to 29 April 1961, with address of 5 Elizabeth Bay Road, Elizabeth Bay, Sydney, Australia, was the recipient of a United States Visa on 23 October 1960. On his application, DAMASCOU indicated that he desired to visit the United States for a period of four months, described as a pleasure trip to visit his sister. His visa application did not include any destination address in the United States. It was also noted that the visa card maintained on Nicolas DAMASCOU in the Embassy in Mexico City contains a notation "76688 to Immigration and Naturalization Service, Los Angeles, May 29 1961."

d. Through a reliable confidential source our representatives in Egypt had learned in the interim that Nicolas DAMASCOU, who is identical with the individual described in preceding paragraphs, currently resides in Los Angeles, California, at 1690 North Gardner, Apartment 18, and that he advised his mother and younger brother, still residing in Alexandria, that he plans to marry the daughter of an American official, who is not further identified. The same source also advised that Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASKOU, father of Nicolas and Anastasie DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS, died during the summer of 1956. Following the demise of the father, Angelika DAMASCOU nee SAVOURAS, widowed mother of Nicolas and Anastasie

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

NOTORY CONTINUED CONTROL

DAMASCOU, in company of a younger son not identified by name, had planned to emigrate from Egypt to join her son Nicolas in the United States. However, prior to the ratification of these plans, Angelika DAMASCOU suffered a stroke, exact details concerning which are not known, but she is reported as of this writing still to be paralyzed and obviously unable to travel. No further information was available on the possible future emigration plans of Angelika DAMASCOU aka GAVOURAS and/or of the unidentified younger brother of Nicolas DAMASCOU and of Anastasie DAMASCOU.

2. On basis of the reported filing of an application for a United States Visa in July 1956 at the U.S. Embassy in London by Anastasie DAMASCOU, our representatives in London were requested to initiate a check of British liaison indices in the names of Nicolas DAMASCOU and of Anastasie DAMASCOU. MI6 advised that as of late July 1961, they hold no traces on Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCOU aka DAMASCO, but that although they had no traces on Anastasie DAMASCOU, they were continuing to check her possible residence in London during 1956, based on the reported visa application data. MI6 advised that they hold no traces on either Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCOU aka DAMASCUS or on his sister Anastasie Georges DAMASCOU.

3. It is suggested that the Indices of the Department of State, Visa Section as well as the indices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Department of Justice, may contain further detailed information on the current immigration status, whereabouts in the United States, and also the contacts in the United States of Nicolas Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCOU, of Anastasie Georges DAMASCOU aka DAMASCOU, and any other members of the family who may have applied for entry visas from abroad.

4. With regard to Justo SIERRA Casarana, mentioned in above referenced memorandum of 17 July 1961 as a contact of Nicolas DAMASCOU aka DAMASCO, it is suggested that the indices of the Department of State may contain additional information on his activities during his service at the Mexican Embassy in Washington, D.C.

5. The information reported above is for the internal use of

SECRET

NOTORY CONTINUED CONTROL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET
NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL

addresses only and may not be further disseminated without the prior permission of the originator.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

![signature] /s/ WILLIAM K. HARVEY

2 ect National Security Agency
Attn: Mr. S. Wesley Reynolds

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)