14-00000
104-10121-10263
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

24 October 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Security

ATTENTION : Support Branch

SUBJECT : MOR'LES, David S.

1. This will confirm the verbal request to Mr. John Lavery from Mr. J. J. Mullane, Jr. on 13 October 1960 that two backstopped residence addresses be provided for Subject, one in the Washington, D.C. area and one in the Los Angeles area.

2. Mr. Lavery also requested to backstop the Washington address to the extent that Subject's residence at the address from 5 October 1960 on would be acknowledged. He was to be identified as a recently returned State Department employee who had secured a new position with the Department of the Army, since returning from overseas and resigning from State Department. It was to be indicated that pending determination of the location of his assignment, Subject's family had not joined him in the Washington, D.C. area but were understood to be at the home of his wife's family somewhere in New England. Subject's employer is the U.S. Army Staff-Group whose telephone number, left by Subject with the management of his residence for emergency contact, is OX 6-2255. It was explained to Mr. Lavery that this residence and cover was necessary to backstop Subject in the event of inquiry arising out of some private business ventures in which he is currently engaged in the Phoenix, Arizona area.

3. Mr. Lavery was requested to provide a second residence address in the Los Angeles area where Subject's residence from approximately 1 August 1958 to 14 October 1960 could be acknowledged. He was to be identified at this residence as a local representative for a New York City concern, Bartlett and Rogers, and to have done economic research for them concerned with Latin American trade. Subject was understood to have been moved by his company to the Miami area, leaving Los Angeles on 14 October 1960.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

-2-

4. Mr. Lavery was advised that for purposes of answering
   inquiries in Los Angeles, Subject was to be identified as a
   single individual approximately 35 years old, 6 feet tall, 200 lbs.,
   swarthy complexion, with dark hair and eyes. He is understood to
   have a good position with his employer, and earning, it is estimated
   over $10,000 per year.

![signature of JOSEPH F. LANGAN]

JOSEPH F. LANGAN
Chief, WH/4/So

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)