# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Base, JMWAYΣ

Transmittal of Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Alberto PONZOA y Alvarez

Process MOC

1. Transmitted herewith is the Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Mr. Alberto PONZOA y Alvarez (aka "Junior").

2. Subject was originally a contact of the Havana Station and in the summer of 1960, using his boat *PRCIS* made the first of four successful sea rendezvous operations with MATUSA TIME. He was subsequently forced to escape from Cuba, in *PISCIS*, to December 1960. Since this date Subject has sailed on many maritime operations in WASP, MATUSA TIME and on several Cuban-crewed boats. On several occasions he has effected rubber-boat beach landings to meet reception parties under extremely hazardous circumstances.

3. In Miami Subject was associated with the AMDIPs but has become disenchanted with this group because of constant political squabbles and their lack of ability to perform to his satisfaction. He now wishes to disassociate himself completely from any Cuban political group and desires to place himself under KUBARK control.

4. It is proposed to use Subject as a small boat captain in maritime operations; as an intermediate craft crewman in beach landings; as interpreter on American-crewed vessels; to assist in training Cuban, non-English-speaking crews and to assist generally where and when needed.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:
MOC

DATE TYPED

10 August 61

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-1011

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

**Classification:** SECRET

**To:** Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

**From:** Chief of Base. JMWAVE

**Subject:** JMATE/

**Action Required References:** Transmittal of Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Alberto PONZOA y Alvarez

Process MOC

1.  Transmitted herewith is the Memorandum of Oral Commitment for Mr. Alberto PONZOA y Alvares (aka "Junior").

2.  Subject was originally a contact of the Havana Station and in the summer of 1960, using his boat PISCIS, made the first of four successful sea rendervous operations with MATUSA TIME, He was subsequently forced to escape from Cuba, in PISCIS, is. December 1960. Since this date Subject has sailed on many maritime operations in WASP, MATUSA TIME and on several Cuban-crewed boats. On several occasions he has effected rubber-boat beach landings to meet reception parties under extremely hazardous circumstances.

3.  In Miami Subject was associated with the AMDIPs but has become disenchanted with this group because of constant political squabbles and their lack of ability to perform to his satisfaction. He now wishes to disassociate himself completely from any Cuban political group and desires to place himself under KUBARK control

4.  It is proposed to use Subject as a small boat captain in maritime operations; as an intermediate craft crewman in beach landings; as interpreter on American-crewed vessels; to assist in training Cuban, non-English-speaking crews and to assist generally where and when needed.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment:
MOC

Date Typed: 10 August 61

Dispatch Symbol and Number:
UFGA-1011

Headquarters File Number

Classification: SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)