2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

and resultant limited time available for Committee matters plus other factors, it might be possible to handcarry selected KCIA documents to the SSCI for reading by Mr. Kramer. This office objected on the grounds of the sensitivity of the material, the ground rules established for the Congressional (and DOJ) review of this material by staffers and the problems which could be caused by exceptional treatment being afforded to one Committee or staffer. Mr. George Cary provided the compromise solution which is acceptable to all parties, to wit, that Mr. Garbler invite Mr. Kramer to the Agency for lunch after which time he would review the requested material in the Headquarters building. (ESVidal)

4. MEETING OF SSCI STAFFER AND DDO: At Mr. Hal Ford's request a luncheon meeting with Mr. William Wells has been scheduled for 26 October. Mr. Ford is researching material for a study on China reporting and wishes to discuss this subject with Mr. Wells due to his extensive background and experience in East Asian affairs. (ESVidal)

5. ASSASSINATIONS COMMITTEE: Counsel G. Robert Blakey met with DO, DDA/Security and OLC representatives to determine how he might frame his requirements to best meet our capabilities. His efforts appear to be aimed at the possible CIA role with the Mafia, and a double Mafia role with Castro. He has information which implies that Trafficante was playing both sides. The IG, particularly Scott Breckenridge, has responsibility for the Bill Harvey association and the analysis of the Schweiker report. Blakey has agreed that DO will concentrate initially on the Bayo-Pawley affair and the "Soviet Defector" cover operation. Non identified informants have told him that Col. "Rep" Robertson was involved. His queries are logical, manageable, and, if we can keep his requests to specific people or events, we should be able to respond to his requirements. (It would be, in our opinion, an excellent idea for the ADDO to meet informally with Blakey over a luncheon. This would be useful in giving Blakey a picture of JMWAVE, but also it would perhaps give Blakey a perspective on his own terms of reference. (JDWalker)

6. LITIGATION/HORMAN V SECRETARY OF STATE, ET AL, (JAMES E. ANDERSON COS, COSTA RICA): We prepared a reply to Anderson and suggested he indicate to the Department that he would accept the routine officer of Department of Justice legal representation as a government official in the Horman family suit.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)