104-10215-10096 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992 201-168881

CROZIER Ross L

SECRET

Vol. Ⅳ of Ⅴ

OFFICIAL CS FILE

(June 1958-Dec. 1960)

FORM 1505 B
3-68

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 130 ES/OBS
Ø2 JAN 59

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, COP, A/DD/P/P, FI, FI/OPS, FI/ROM 3
PP 2, PP/PRD, PP/PYD 2, S/C

FILE N° 201-37725
201-168881

![routing information]

PRIORITY

IN 43348

TO: DIR INFO: MEXI SACU CITE: HAVA 0796

AMUTTER

STATION TAKING ADVANTAGE OPPORTUNITY SEND NOEMAYR ON PLANE
CHARTERED BY BOHEMIA AND TIME MAG TO CARRY JAY MALLIN AND
CARLOS CASTANEDA TO SACU TO INTERVIEW FIDEL CASTRO AND POSSIBLY
ACCOMPANY CASTRO PARTY WHEN IT COMES TO HAVANA. PLANE ETD
HAVA Ø600 JAN 2.

END OF MESSAGE

![stamp of copy]

![routing details table]

FORM 1389 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CLASSMED-MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL'

10) ER/DLD
    DATE 01 JAN 59

TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : SANTIAGO DE CUBA
ACTION: WH 6
INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, FI/OPS, 15/02

RE Filia (check one):
No O's Record Valur. Destroy.
R1 the this copy as indicated
Brassch copy filed as indicated
KE レンド check one!
Signature:
None required
1 Chif

201-32775
201-168881

ROUTING

REOL CECT

ROUTINE
IN 43223
CITE SACU 317

TO PRITY HAVA INFO DIR
RE: HAVA 0766 (IN 42971)*

AFFIRMATIVE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMENT: QUERIED IF SACU WAS IN POSITION TO ARRANGE VAIVADA ENTRY INTO REBEL
TERRITORY AS IN PREVIOUS CASES. HOS WISHED TO SEND HIM ON MISSION SIMILAR TO THAT
TAKEN LAST MARCH.

![RI COPY]
![GS COPY]

![RI/Files]
![RI/TY]
![TED]
![R/FI]
2 Jan 59
201-168.881

FORM 1389
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 1

SECRET

DATE: 104/LB/JJM/U/D
01 JAN 59

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: WH 6 MR. GRUNWELL, WH DIV!

INFO: S/C 2

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
NOTIFIED 1730 1 JAN 59
Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked
None required

JAN 23 57.59
REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 43216

TO: OPIM SACU INFO PRITY MEXI PRITY DIR CITE HAVA 0784

VIEW STRONG RUMORS FIDEL CASTRO COMING HAVA, CANCELLING NOEMAY DEPARTURE FOR SACU.

FOR HQS, MEXI: MEANTIME PLAN USE HIM LOCAL INTEL COLLECTION.

RELEASED 011850Z

END OF MSG

RI/Files

WH/3M

SECRET

1 Jan 59
201-168,881

FORM 1389
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 007 DB/OLDER
01 JAN 59

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: WH 6 (MR. EVANS, WH ISSUED TOO COPY 2330, 1 JAN

INFO: S/C 2

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.

RE file this copy as indicated:
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked  Node required

JAN 2 05 13.59

REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 43248

CITE HAVA 0790

TO: PRITY MEXI INFO DIR

PLS ADVISE WIFE NOEMAYR HE SAFE AND NO NEED WORRY. HE CONCERNED EXAGGERATED STORIES SUBMITTED BY WIRE SERVICES MAY UNDULY UPSET HER.

END OF MESSAGE

![RI COPY]

CS Com WH/3M

FORM 1389 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. 2 Jan 59
201-168 881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief, WHD

SUBJECT: Harold R. *[Unclear Text]* Pavic

ACTION REQUIRED: See below

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.: HMM-7302

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.: 201-32723

DATE: 13 FEB '59

CS COPY

RE: "43-3" (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

X NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

Cover Division has requested that the Station make a thorough assessment of Subject's notional cover in relation to its operational suitability and report to Headquarters on the strength or weakness of the arrangement, giving any recommendations deemed advisable to strengthen it. For guidance the Station may consider such factors as the security consideration involved and the ability of Subject to live his cover.

OLIVER G. GALBOND

6 February 1959

Distribution:

3 - Mexico City

1 - WH/Mailroom

1 - WH/3/Mexico

1- RI

WH/3/Mexico/B.MERRELL.ngs

![signature]

CS COPY

![handwritten text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

407 DMCL/WS
DATE : 31 DEC 58
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : HAVANA
ACTION: WH 6
INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, S/C
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
RE FILES (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
file this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
RI Index (check one):
Marked ()  Nice required

JAN 1 03 1159
REC'D CABLE SECT.
ROUTINE

TO PRITY SACU INFO DIR
RE: DIR Ø6245 (OUT 57838) *

1. SUBJECT REF ARRIVED HAVA EVENING 3Ø DEC.

2. FOR SACU: SUBJ IS VAIVADA. HQS WISHES SEND HIM TO FIDEL CASTRO TERRITORY ON MISSION SIMILAR TO THAT UNDERTAKEN LAST MARCH. IS SACU IN POSITION ARRANGE HIS ENTRY INTO REBEL TERRITORY AS IN PREVIOUS CASES? IF NOT HAVA PROBABLY CAN ARRANGE THROUGH 26 JULY CONTACTS HERE BUT PREFERS IT BE DONE THROUGH ESTABLISHED CHANNELS SACU IF AT ALL POSSIBLE.

3. CABLE REPLY PRIORITY.
   END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *ADVISED NOEMAYR ENROUTE HAVA OMA FLT 565 ETA 30 DEC.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/NOBAT

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO

IDMW-7933

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

-201-32723

FROM Chief, WHID

SUBJECT Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps)

DATE

AUG 4 1959

RE: "43-3" (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

X NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

ACTION REQUIRED

Reply reference.

REFERENCE(S)

HMSW-7790, 19 June 1959

Please reply to referenced dispatch at your earliest convenience so

WH Division can start making plans for Subject's future assignment.

OLIVER G. GALBOND

3 August 1959

Distribution:

3 - Mexico City

1 - WH/Mexico/Rybat Chrono

Subject

WH/III/Mexico/E. I. SCALETTI:mpm

![DESENSITIZED]

![stamp received]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Sent to RIO/AN

23 Dec. 70

- HMMW-6430 10 June 58 201-168881

- HMMW-6481 19 June 58 201-168881

- HMMW-6448 17 June 58 201-168881

- DIR 29606 1 July 58 201-168881

- HMMW-6748 22 Aug. 58 201-168881

- HAVA-766 31 Dec. 58 201-168881

- HAVA-784 1 Jan. 59 201-168881

- HAVA-790 1 Jan. 59 201-168881

- HAVA-796 2 Jan. 59 201-168881

- SACU-317 1 Jan. 59 201-168881

- HMMW-7302 13 Feb. 59 201-168881

- HRSW-1730 15 June 59 201-168881

- HMMW-7790 19 June 59 201-168881

- HMMW-7933 4 Aug. 59 201-168881

- HMMA-13726 14 Sept. 59 201-168881

- HMMA-14169 27 Nov. 59 201-168881

- HMMA-14463 5 Feb. 60 201-168881

- HMMW-8499 16 Feb. 60 201-168881

- HMMA-14701 22 Mar. 60 201-168881

- HMMA-14661 8 April 60 201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# DISPATCH

TO Chief of Bass, JMASH

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

INFO

FROM Chief, VID

SUBJECT Administrative Matters

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: As Indicated

REFERENCES: (A) UFCT-135, dtd 29Oct60
(B) UFGT-150, atd 4Nov60

1. Please advise Harold R. KORFAIR that the hospitalization application forwarded via reference (A) is being processed, and the effective date of coverage is 27 November 1960.

2. Please advice Charles R. PARZON that his U. S. Savings Bonds will be retained in headquarters pending his return. The Payroll Office handling PARZON's accounts has determined that this is a more secure method of making sure he receives them in person, rather than sending the bonds in care of the party indicated in reference (B).

3. Please advice IDEN A that as a result of the Proficiency Test he took while assigned locally, he obtained a Proficiency Score of 87. As the Minimum Proficiency Score for award of Proficiency Pay is 94, he is not eligible for the award of Proficiency Pay.

4. Forward under separate cover is another envelope containing copies of Travel Orders for personnel currently assigned JMASH and J-RIK.

5. Please advise Oliver H. CORBISTON that the annual premium on his Specified Diseases policy is due 30 November 1960. The Family Plan for this policy is $10.00. Inasmuch as a grace period of one (1) month is granted, you may advise CORBISTON to submit a check for the premium amount to Headquarters as soon as possible.

END OF MESSAGE

ENCLOSURES:
(A) IDEN A, u/s/e
(B) T/Os a/s par.4, u/s/e

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. #2 - CUB, JMASH, w/encls. a/s

DATE TYPED 25 Nov. 1960
DATE DISPATCHED 1 DEC 1960
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGS-127
HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

OFFICE SYMBOL
C
ORIGINATING TYPIST

DATE 25 Nov. 60
RELEASING

1 - WH/A/Registry

1 - WH/A/Personnel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Mr. Harold A. Noomays

Dear Mr. Noomays:

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, effective 1 June 1957.

Effective 26 November 1960 said contract is an ended by adding thereto the following paragraph:

"Health Insurance: You are herein authorized to apply for enrollment in a health insurance program for certain selected (career agents) of this organization, subject to all the terms and conditions of that program. If accepted, the organization is presently authorized to bear a portion of the premium cost, you will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodic intervals to be established by this organization."

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING

NOV 12 1742 60

ROUTINE

IN 41651

MASH KUCAGE FACED WITH INCREASING ACTIVITIES IN STUDENT AND OTHER FIELDS: CONTINUATION AND PROGRESS AMRASP PROPCON ACTIVITIES AND INDEPENDENT OPS SUCH AS AMHOSE, AMPACA, TODD NEWSLETTER, CRUZAA FOTO CUBANA, PREISA LIBRE, ETC: TRAINING, INFILT AND SUPPORT PROP ITEMS CUBA; DEVELOPMENT PROP ACTIVITIES WITH NEW POLITICAL ENTITIES E. G. ALIANZA, MRP PLUS ACTIVITIES IN LAWYER FIELD, BLACK OPS, PROP AIRDROPS CUBA, ETC.

2. IN ORDER BETTER EXPLOIT OPERATIONAL POTENTIAL EXTANT CURRENT AS TO DEVELOPMENT NEW OPS PARA I ABOVE, MASH HAS NEED FOR ADDITIONAL PERSONNEL. MASH KUCAGE SECTION COMPOSED GOUDEAUX, NOEMAY, HAROLD CORBUSTON. THEIR DUTIES IN ADDITION HANDLING KUCAGE MATTERS INCLUDE LARGE VOLUME INTERNAL PAPERWORK AND ACCOUNTING, PLUS ASSISTANCE OTHER MASH OPS REQUIRING SPANISH LANGUAGE CAPABILITY.

3. REQUEST HOS CONSIDER IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT MASH MINIMUM ONE CASE OFFICER, WITH SOME EXPERIENCE AND WORKING KNOWLEDGE OF SPANISH. EXPECT HAVE SUBSEQUENT NEED FOR SECOND JUNIOR CASE OFFICER.

4. PM CASE OFFICER REQUIREMENTS TO BE SUBJECT SEPARATE CABLE.

END OF MESSAGE

12 Nov. 60
201-165581

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# TRAVEL ORDER

SECRET

NAME

Harold R. Noemayr (P)

OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.

IDY

PCS

INVITATIONAL

OFFICE PHONE

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

WI-A-353-61
Amend No. 1

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

GRADE

Contract

FOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND FURPOSE

Amended to authorize reimbursement $.10 per mile for auto allowance as more advantageous to the government.

Balance of order remains the same.

TRAVEL DURATION

BEGIN

END

DOMESTIC

FER DIEM ALLOWANCE

FOREIGN

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE

$

MAXIMUM

OTHER

(See below)

CENTS PER MI.
NOT TO EXCEED
COST BY COMMON CARRIER

CENTS PER MI.
AS MORE
$.10 ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOVT.

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

NAME

DATE OF BIRTH

RELATIONSHIP

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS

AUTHORIZATION

SHIPMENT

NONTEMPORARY
STORAGE

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED

LBS AND MODE

UNACCOMPANIED

LBS AND MODE

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.

WI-A-353-61

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

1535-5000-0021

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER

FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS

ADVANCE RETURN

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED

YES

NO

ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

DATE

9
Nov

SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER

Joseph F. Baker

REQUESTUNG OFFICIAL

COMPONENT

COORDINATION

SIGNATURE

TITLE & COMPONENT

DATE

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

William E. Eisemann

C/WH/L/Support

SIGNATURE

DATE

Ellchined for

Nov

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

Jacob D. Esterline

C/W/

SIGNATURE

DATE

les 9 nov 60

FORM 540
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRE

201-167851

(23-44)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# TRAVEL ORDER WORK CET

NAME

Harold B Noem ayfrol (P)

OFFICIAL STATION

Wash.

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

Amend.

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER A2

Contract

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Amend to auth. reimbursement 10¢ per mile for auto allowance and more advantageous to government.

Balance of order remains the same.

TRAVEL DURATION

BEGIN END

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

DOMESTIC FOREIGN

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

NAME DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS

AUTHORIZATION

SHIPMENT NON TEMPORARY STORAGE

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE

CENTS PER MI.
NOT TO EXCEED
COST BY COM-
MON CARRIER

CENTS PER MI.
AS MORE
ADVANTAGEOUS
TO GOVT.

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED UNACCOMPANIED

LBS AND MODE LBS AND MODE

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER

FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS

ADVANCE RETURN

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED

DATE

SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER

ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

YES

NO

COORDINATION

SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT

DATE

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

REQUESTING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT

Cal. lofas to show

WH/4/Seu 11/36

SIGNATURE

Alfhlunchto

DATE

3 Nov 80

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT

SIGNATURE

DATE

FORM 540a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# SECRET

PERFORMANCE REPORT
FOR CONTRACT PERSONNEL

TO : FD/C&TAB/SAAS

THROUGH: WH/B&P

FROM : WH/3/Moxico

INDIVIDUAL (Pseudonym) PROJECT PERIOD

Harold R. NOEMAYR LIEDGE 30 Oct. - 27 Nov. 1960

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING METHOD OF PAYMENT

Deposit to bank account
on file in Finence Division

FACTORS AFFECTING AMOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKEN DURING PERIOD (II contract provides leave entitlement)

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL HAS PERFORMED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF HIS CONTRACT AND IS ENTITLED TO PATMENT.

DATE SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL

Ned P. Holman, AC/WH/3

FORM 433 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
8-58

SECRET

201-168581


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Base, MASH

SUBJECT: JMNET/Admin/WSLUGGAGE
Hospitalization Insurance, Harold R. NOEMAYR

ACTION REQUIRED:

REFERENCES: UFGS-66

Attached herewith is the hospitalization application on Harold R. NOEMAYR. Subject requests that premiums for this insurance be automatically deducted from his salary. We would appreciate being advised of subject's policy number and the effective date of the coverage.

Stanley M. Westray

Attachment: Hospitalization Appl. ASA

27 October 1960

Distribution:
3 - Headquarters w/att
2 - Files w/o att.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Base, JHASH

INFO.: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: Harold R. NOEMAYR

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING:

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

1. It is requested that the attached application for Health Insurance be given to Harold R. NOEMAYR for completion. NOEMAYR may retain the covering memorandum which outlines his coverage. The completed forms should be returned to Headquarters for processing. The premiums will be deducted from NOEMAYR's salary. Headquarters will notify NOEMAYR when his policy is in effect.

2. Please explain to NOEMAYR that this plan covers basically two types of health insurance. 1: the normal hospitalisation explained in paragraph 3 of the attachment which includes in- and out-patient care, surgery and maternity. The allowable expenses covered under this section are immediately reimbursable within the limits of the plan. 2: the major medical benefit plan described in paragraph 4 covers miscellaneous medical expenses not normally connected with hospitalization such as doctors' office visits, doctors' home visits, prescriptions, injections and medications given by doctors, E-rays and other laboratory work done in connection with diagnosis or treatment, etc. The insured pays up to $100 of such allowable expenses under this category for each member of his family. If expenses exceed this $100 for any person during the calendar year, then the policy will pay for 80% of their additional expenses. In connection with this phase of the plan, it is suggested that NOEMAYR be advised to have his family keep a detailed record of all medical expenses incurred by each member of the family.

3. NOEMAYR should be advised that under the hospitalization section of the plan, up to $75.00 can be reimbursed for surgical fees in connection with a tonsillectomy, whether the tonsillectomy is performed in a hospital or in the surgeon's offices.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

3 - JHASH

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

1 - Subj. 201

1 - WH/3/Mexi Chrono

1 - WH/4/Registry

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE TYPED: Oct. 1960

DATE DISPATCHED: 12 OCT 1960

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGS-66

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-168881

ORIGINATING: C/WH/3/Mexi 2555

COORDINATING

OFFICER'S NAME:

RELEASING:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA AIR
(Speculy Ar or Sea Poach)

DISPATCH NO. HW-6481

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

201-32723

19 JUN 1958

TO : Chief of Station, Hexico City

DATE

FROM : Chief, WHD

SUBJECT  GENERAL
SPECIFIC - Harold R. NOSHAYR

ACTION REQUESTED: Sign and Return Contract

Forwarded herewith is an original and three copies of an amendment to Subject's contract. Please bave Subject sign these copies and have them properly witnessed and signed by the Chief of station as contracting officer. Please return all but one copy to Headquarters.

16 June 1958

Attachment:
As described above.

Distribution:
3- Mexico City
1- WH/Failroom
1-WH/3/Mexico/Chrono
-RI

WE/III/Mexice/LSulc:mpm

![signature of J. C. KING, C/WHD]

for J. C. KING, C/WHD

FORM NO. 51-29
JUB 1949

![signature] KING
CHIEF, WHD

(Coordinating officer)

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

![signature of R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III]

19 JUNG8
R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III

201-168881

201-32773


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

FERFORMANCE REPORT
FOR CONTRACT PERSONNEL

TO : FD/C-TAB/SAAS

THROUGH:

FROM : WE/3/Endso

INDIVIDUAL (Pseudonym)

Harold R. FORMAYR

PROJECT: LIKEDGE

PERIOD: 2 Oct. - 29 Oct. 1960

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS REGARDING METHOD OF PAYMENT

Deposit to bank account on file in Finance Division

FACTORS AFFECTING AMOUNT DUE

LEAVE TAKEN DURING PERIOD (If contract provides leave entitlement)

CERTIFICATION

I CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PERIOD INDICATED THIS INDIVIDUAL HAS PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF HIS CONTRACT AND IS ENTITLED TO PAYMENT.

DATE SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL

Ned P. Holman, AC//3

FORM 433 USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# TRAVEL ORDER WORK SHEET

NAME: Harold & RA Noemayer (P)

OFFICIAL STATION

OFFICE TRAVEL ORDER NO. 353

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

GRADE: Career Agent

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE:
Wash. to Area IIA for TDX and return.
Travel: For Purpose to assist Kent in Propaganda workshop.

TRAVEL DURATION:
BEGIN: 1 Sept.

END: 31 Jant

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

DOMESTIC:

FOREIGN:

MAXIMUM:

OTHER: (See below)

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE:

10¢ CENTS PER MI. NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER

CENTS PER MI. AS MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO GOV'T

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS:
Auth. reimbursement auto expense for operational use.

DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

NAME
DATE OF BIRTH
RELATIONSHIP

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY:
TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

CASH OR OTHER

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS AUTHORIZATION

SHIPMENT:
NON TEMPORARY STORAGE

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL:
FY 61-$750

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED:
LBS AND MODE

UNACOCAMPANIED:
LBS AND MODE

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER
FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS
ADVANCE RETURN
ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED:
$500
ACCOUNTING DUE DATE
DATE
SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER
COORDINATION

SIGNATURE: Hinkle, XO (Shave)

TITLE & COMPONENT: 27 Miller 50/WN/4

DATE: 9/2/60.

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

SIGNATURE: Phillips (Phond)

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

REQUESTING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT

DATE

AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

COMPONENT

SIGNATURE
DATE

FORM 540a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

TRAVEL ORDER

NAME

Harold R. Nocmayer (P)

OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D. C.

OFFICE TRAVEL CHIER NO.

WI-A-353-62

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER &3.

GRADE

Career Agent

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR
CHANGE OF OF FICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.
ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Washington, D. C. to Area IIa for TDY and return.

MODE: POV
PURPOSE: Operational Mission

| TRAVEL DURATION | DOMESTIC      | PER DIEM ALLOWANCE | FOREIGN           | AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE                                                                            |
| --------------- | ------------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| EEGIN 1 Sept.   | END 31 Jan 61 | MAXIMUM            | OTHER (Ser below) | 10¢ CENTS PER MI. NOT TO EXCEED COST BY COMMON CARRIER CERTS PER M AS MORE ADVANTAGEGUS 10 cort |

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

Authorized reimbursement auto expense for operational use.

| DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED | PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY  | ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| KAME                        | DATE OF BIRTH RELATIONSHIP | TRAYSPORTATION REQUEST CASH OR OTHER  DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS AUTHORIZATION SHIPMENT MONTEMPORARY STORAGE SHIPMENT PCA AUTHORIZED EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED ACCOMPANIED UNACCOMPANIED LBS AND MODE LBS AND MODE |

FY 61 - $750

| ACCOMPANY TRAVELER  FOLLOW WITHIN & MONTHS  ADVANCE RETURN |     | I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO. |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | --- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| COORDINATION SIGNATURE TITLE & COMPONENT                   |     | WH-A-353-61 CHARGE COST CENTER NO.                     |

SIGNATURE

Title ad 20 Sept

1535-5000-0021

|                                          |                                          | ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED XYES $500 ACCOUNTING DUE DATE NO | DATE 162. 7 Sept |
| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| TYPED NAME AND TITLE William E. Eisemann | SIGNATURE OF B&F OFFICER Michael J. King | REQUESTAS OFFICIAL COMPONENT                                |                  |

Ellfchuned for C/WH/4/Support

| TYPED NAME AND TITLE Jacob D. Esterline | SIGNATURE | DATE 8. Sept AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL COMPONENT |

SIGNATURE

Jurk & states

DATE

C/MH/L

7. Dept.60

PORM 540 OBSOLETE SKPU S-Se PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

201-16 881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG: JAMES A. REARSON
UNIT: WH/4/PERSONNEL
EXT: 8717
DATE: 1 SEPTEMBER 1960

TO: JMASH

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH

INFO: COF, ADDP/A, S/C 2

ROUTING

DEFERRED 22 31 260

ROUTINE CD CABLE SEC”

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

CUT65049
OUT 65049

TO: MASH PRIORITY INFO CITE DIR 48514

48514

JANET ADMIN

Normayer, CAREER AGENT, TO ASSIST MR. KENT DEPARTING VIA PO

1 SEPTEMBER TDY. ETA 3 OR 4 SEPTEMBER. WILL PHONE MR. KENT OR

MR. CHELLIFO.

END OF MESSAGE

Believe Subj file
Should be kept in
Pseudo. Herb

WILLIAM E. EISEMANN
C/WH/4/SUPPORT

DC/MB/4 E.Hinkle(Phas)
C/MB/3 J.Hync(Phas)
C/WH/4/PROP M.Marey(Phas)

HERBERT V. JOUZ
C/MH/4/PERSONNEL

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

From CCD:

NAME:

AGE: 38

ADDRESS: Route #1 Longmont, Colorado

EMPLOYED: Clarence A. DePew & Cons since September 6, 1960

SALARY: $600 per month

OCCUPATION: Research Specialist


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

20 JUL 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH Division
ATTENTION : Miss Charlotte Zehrung
FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations
and Support)
SUBJECT : S-8760
215483

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 22 April 1960 wherein you requested a covert security approval to cover the possibility that Subject may learn of details of her brother-in-law's work for this Agency. It is understood the Subject resides with her brother-in-law and his wife, and although she is aware he does confidential work for the U.S. Government, she is not witting of his Agency connections. It is also understood that no direct revelation of the Subject's_brother-in-law's work for this Agency is intended.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction Field No. 10-5, à covert security approval is granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph-1, above.

3. A memorandum containing pertinent information regarding Subject is being forwarded to CI/QA this date. CI/OA should be contacted and this information reviewed prior to any utilization of Subject.

4. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

6. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

![Signature of Louis W. Vasaly for Fred H. Hall]

201-168881

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

SEGRET

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Chief, MI Division

ATT'N : Miss Charlotte Zehrung

DATE: 20 JUL 1960

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Operational Support)

SUBJECT: S-9546
#112559

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 12 April 1960 wherein an amended covert security approval was requested to permit the PCS of Subject, a career agent, from Mexico to Headquarters and specifically, to permit his utilization in translating documents pertaining to Cuban matters from Spanish to English and English to Spanish. The Subject will also assist the Division by making suggestions for PP and FI purposes. It is understood that Subject will work under a cover established for him by CCD/C and that he will have no access to official Agency buildings or installations. It is further understood that he will not engage in clandestine operational activities in the USA.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3. A memorandum containing pertinent information regarding Subject is being forwarded to CI/OA this date. CI/OA should be contacted and this information reviewed prior to any utilization of Subject.

4. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

5. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

6. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

Louis W. Vasaly
for Fred H. Hall

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

C-82713 (5-8644)

RI Trace, non-derog.

CL #100169, 22 April 1950.

Arge ina Cordero de CROZIER

CSA red 22 April 1960. Acknowledged by CI/CA 27 April 1960.

Acknowledged by OS/SSD, 6 May 1960. (5 # 8644)

CSA granted 20 July 1960

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

C-82712 (S-8750)

RI Trace, No record.

GL #100170, 22 April 1960.

CSA req'd 22 April 1950. Acknowledged by CI/OA 27 April 1960.

Acknowledged by OS/SSD, 13 May 1960. (S $3760)

CSA granted 20 July 1960

Conalo Felicia CORDERO-Calderon

201-165881/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Harold R. Noessayr Assistance
to WH/4/CA Effort

1.  Harold R. Noezayr has been working full time for WH/4/?rop and WH/4/PA since early June 1960. He has translated important propaganda or political action manuscripts into Spanish and from Spanish into English. Ho has proofread materials to be sent to the station. lie has offered συς-gestions on operational possibilities and reviewed critically a great deal of propaganda material under preparation by wil/4.

2.  Mr. Noemayr's work has been of the highest quality and has been of inestimable value to WH/4.

3.  It is hoped that he will be able to continue in his advisory and support capacity, especially to our propaganda offort.

DAVID A. PHILLIPS
C/WH/4/Prop

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Finance Division
WH/B&F
WH/3/Mead.co

Harold R. HOFMAYR
LIEDGE
Mexico
10 Jul - 6 Aug 1960

Bash

N. P. Holman, AC/WH/3

file:
NOEMHYR
201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET.

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Alwaye handcarry I copy of this 1010).

TO: CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT:

(True name) Argentina CORDERO de CROZIER

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES

DATE 22 Amil 1550

FROM: WHD

PROJECT LIEDGE

CI/OA FILE NO.

RI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPPIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT NAME CHECK

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

FULL DETAILS OF USE

Subject will not be used operationally. She is the wife of Harold A. NO HAYR (C-25507), a Career Agent. By virtue of this relationship she necessarily becomes exposed to some operational activity of her husband. She knows he is engaged in intelligence work for KUBARK. She knows he meets agents and has spoken to them on the phone, but does not how their names. She knows his activities are targeted against Communists.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

| YES                                                 | NO    |     |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ----- | --- |
| IS OR BILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM? | X YES | NO  |

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

Any investigation of Subject should reveal in no way Government interest. Subject's husband is under sensitive deep cover.

IF NO INVESTIGATION GUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY

| X PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED | PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS not | urless requested |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------- |
| PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED    | X GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:    | 100169           |

FIELD TRACES Costa Rica

| NO RECORD                                        | SO INFORMATION OF VALUE     |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- |
| DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH EVALUATION | MOT INITIATED (Explanation) |
| BILL BE FORWARDED                                | 200                         |

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached) no traces former husband

| NO RECORD | X NON-DEROGATORY | DEROGATORY |

DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation. Attached)

| X NO RECORD | RECORD | DEROGATORY |

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

C.Zehrung, WH/3/Mexico 3162 H.P.Holman, AC/WH/3

FORM

11-56 772 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

701-16 117/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA"
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

SECTION 1 GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First)
   Argentina
   (Middle)
   I.
   (Last)
   CROLIER
   (Nee)
   Cordero-Calderon

2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than Item 1.)
   Argentina Iris de Los Angeles Cordero-Calderon

4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES. LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)

5. DATE OF BIRTH
   15 March 1918 (also reported 1915)
6. PLACE OF BIRTH
   San Jose, Costa Rica

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)

8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquitals)

None known.

9. 
|         |                                                                   |
| ------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9a. SEX | DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible) |
| M       | 9c. APPARENT AGE 9d. HEIGHT 9e. WEIGHT 9f. COMPLEXION             |
| 9b. AGE | 1.2 ft. 5 in. 1 127 olive                                         |

9h. COLOR OF HAIR
dark brown (dyed blond)
9i. COLOR OF EYES
brown
9j. TEETH
9k. BUILD
med heavy
9l. POSTURE

9m. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES
Scar on left cheek and jaw visible only on examination.

9n. GENERAL APPEARANCE
Good

9o. PROMINENT FEATURES
None

9p. OTHER. IDENTIFYING FEATURES

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDWRITING: ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS. IF OBTAINABLE

FORM 1050 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
7-89
1
(4-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

## SECTION II

1. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP
   Costa Rican

CITIZENSHIP
2. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 1.)

3. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant)
   Presidential Gardens, Alexandria, Virginia

4. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 3.)
   San Juan Tibas, San Jose, Costa Rica

5. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN. GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

6. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)
   Has traveled with husband throughout Latin America. Prior to marriage she had traveled in Panama where she worked.

## SECTION III

OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

1. PRESENT OCCUPATION
   Housewife

2. TITLE

3. SALARY (Per annum)

4. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposits, securities and property)

## SECTION IV

ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

1. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

2. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS: POLITICAL, AFFILIATIONS

## SECTION V

EDUCATIONAL DATA

1. SCHOOLS

| NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL                | NAME OF COURSE  | DATES ATTENDED            | DEGREE RECEIVED |
| ------------------------------------------ | --------------- | ------------------------- | --------------- |
| Vernice Coiffure Design Inst. Havana, Cuba | Beauty Operator | August 1957 February 1958 |                 |


2. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

| LANGUAGE                                                                  | COMPETENCE |        |        |        |            |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ---------- |
| (List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.) |            | READ   | WRITE  | SPEAK  | UNDERSTAND |
|                                                                           |            | YES NO | YES NO | YES NO | YES NO     |
| Spanish - native                                                          |            | X      | X      | X      | X          |
| English                                                                   |            | X      | X      | X      | X          |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECTION VI

SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

1. INDICATE ANY WRITING. GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES. ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICATION DATES.

None

2. SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

SECTION VII

MILITARY SERVICE

| COUNTRY | DATES FROM | TO  | UNIT | RANK | DUTY |
| ------- | ---------- | --- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
|         |            |     |      |      |      |

*IDENTIFYING COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS, WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS IF WAS PRISONER.

SECTION VIII

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT.

|                                                       |                                    |                                      |                       |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------------- |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) December 1945-present    | 2. EMPLOYER housewife              | 3. ADDRESS                           | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK                                       | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS              |                                      |                       |
|                                                       | $ PER                              |                                      |                       |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) Early 1945-December 1945 | 2. EMPLOYER Cafe & Bar             | 3. ADDRESS Colon, Rep de Panama      | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK Cashier                               | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS $ 129 PER MO |                                      | marriage              |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 1944                     | 2. EMPLOYER Post Exchange          | 3. ADDRESS Fort Gulick, Canal Zone   | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK Soda Fountain                         | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS $ 75 PER MO  |                                      | higher salary.        |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 1944                     | 2. EMPLOYER Post Exchange          | 3. ADDRESS Fort Sherman, Canal Zone  | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK Soda Fountain                         | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS $ 75 PER MO  |                                      | Labor problems        |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 1942                     | 2. EMPLOYER U.S. Army              | 3. ADDRESS Fort Randolph, Canal Zone | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK Soda Fountain                         | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS $ 75 PER MO  |                                      |                       |
|                                                       |                                    |                                      |                       |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECTION IX

1. CHECK ONE:
   SINGLE MARRILD HARITAL STATUS IDOWED SEPARATED XDIVORCED ASGULLED

2. STATE A.L. FLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS. DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

Pedro CA-PO-Marzal, married sometime in 1935 in San Jose, Costa Rica. Date and Place of birth are unknown, believe Srain; has held Spanish and Germa:: passports. llow residing in Hexico City. Divorced in 1940 in San Jose, Costa Rica for incompatibility.

3. 
WIFE OR IF YOU HAVE BLEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FOPMER #IFE OR HUSBAND HUSBANDI GIYING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

3. NAME OF SPOUSE (First) (Middle) (Nee) (Last)
   Ross Lester CHOSTOR

4. DATE OF MARRIAGE 5. PIACE OF MARKIAGE
   17 December 1945 Cristobal, Canal Zone

6. DATE OF BIRTH 7- PLACE OF BIRTH
   20 June 1922 De Kalb, Illinois

8. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH S. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
   U.S.A. 1.one

10. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Last residence, if deceased)
    Presidential Cardens, alexandria, Virginia

# SECTION X

| FULL NAME       | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | NATIONALITY AT BΙΑΤΗ |
| --------------- | --- | ------------- | -------------- | -------------------- |
| Ross Arnuifo    | X   | 1949          |                | U.S.                 |
| Lillian Caridad | X   | 1951          |                | U.S.                 |


SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give his, or her, present address)



# SECTION XI

|                            |                  |                      |                           |
| -------------------------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------- |
| 1. FULL NAME               | 2. YEAR OF BIRTH | FATHER               |                           |
| Alberto CORDERO-LOAIZA     | 1897             | 3. PLACE OF BIRTH    | 4. NATIONAL I TY AT BIRTH |
| 5. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS | 6. OCCUPATION    | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican               |
|                            | shoemaker        | 7. PRESENT RESIDENCE |                           |
|                            |                  | deceased - 19:2      |                           |


# SECTION XII

|                            |                  |                      |                            |
| -------------------------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------- |
| 1. FULL NAME               | 2. YEAR OF BIRTH | MOTHER               |                            |
| Dora CALDERON-MARTINEZ     | 1999             | 3. PLACE OF BIRTH    | 4. NATIONAL I TY. AT BIRTH |
| 5. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS | 6. OCCUPATION    | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican                |
|                            | housewife        | 7. PRESENT RESIDENCE |                            |
|                            |                  | deceased - 1956      |                            |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

## SECTION XIII BROTHERS AND SISTERS

| FULL NAME                 | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH       | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH   |
| ------------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Federico CORDERO-CALDERON | X   | 1914          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican            |
| Franklin CORDERO-CALDERON | X   | 1916          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican (deceased) |
| Antonio CORDERO-CALDERON  | X   | 1919          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican (ZXXXXX)   |
| Gladys CORDERO-de CAMPO   | X   | 1921          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican (deceased) |
| Mario CORDERO-CALDERON    | X   | 1923          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican            |
| Consuelo CORDERO-CALDERON | X   | 1925          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican            |
| Isabel de TAPALICO        | X   | 1929          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican            |
| Azdruval CORDERO-CALDERON | X   | 1932          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican            |
| Norma CORDERO-CALDERON    | X   | 1932          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rican            |

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sister and give his, or her, present address)*

## SECTION XIV RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

1.  NAMES OF RELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICE: INDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELD.

Husband - Ross L. CROZIER - CIA (Career Agent)

2.  RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)

2 sisters - Consuelo CORDERO-CALDERON - sister (live together)

Norma CORDERO-CALDERON (husband's name unknown) - sister (residing at 160 Main Street, Quincy Pt., Mass.)

3.  NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number of certificate granted)

Norma may have U.S. citizenship. - she has applied.

4.  NAMES, ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE.

## SECTION XV PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

1.  LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

## SECTION XVI MISCELLANEOUS

DATE SIGNATURE

5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)

TO:
CI/Operational Approval and Support Division
Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT:
Consuelo Felicia CORIPRO-Calderon
(True name)

CRYPTONYM. PSEUDONYM. AKA OR ALIASES

DATE 22 April 1960

FROM: WHID

PROJECT LIEBGE

CI/OA FILE NO.
RI 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

APROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK

☑ COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

FULL DETAILS OF USE

Subject is residing with Harold R. NOZMAYR (ps), Career Agent, her brother-in-law. Because of this she might find out some details of NOZMAYR's real job. She does not know he is working for KUSARK, but she does know he works for ODYOKE in a confidential capacity: NOZMAYR said she has neither an awareness nor an interest in politics. No RI traces on her husband Arthur Burgett. Without more bio-data, it was impossible to trace Bill Parker.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
YES ☑ NO

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
YES ☑ NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

No investigation should indicate U.S. Government interest. NOZMAYR is under sensitive deep cover.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

☑ PRO I. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO II. OR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
☑ PRO II WILL /NOT/ be forwarded

GREEN LIST ATTACHED.. NO: 100170

FIELD TRACES Costa Rica

☑ NO RECORD
NO INFORMATION OF VALUE

DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED. WITH EVALUATION
NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

WILL BE FORWARDED

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

☑ NO RECORD
RECORD
DEROGATORY

DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

☑ NO RECORD
RECORD
NON-DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

C. Zehrung, WH/3/Mexico 3162 N. P. Holman, AC/H/3

FORM 772 USE PREVIOUS
11-56 EDITIONS.

SECRET
201-161171 (0)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA"
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

## SECTION I - GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First)
   Consuelo
   (Middle)
   Felicia
   (Last) (Nee)
   CORCORO-CALDERON

2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different then Item 1.)

4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)

5. DATE OF BIRTH
   2 July 1925

6. PLACE OF BIRTH
   San Jose, Costa Rica

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)
   None

8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals)
   None

| 9a. SEX | 9b. AGE | 9c. APPARENT AGE | 9d. HEIGHT | 9e. WEIGHT | 9f. COMPLEXION | 9g. FACE (Shape) |
| ------- | ------- | ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| F       | 35      | 30               | 5 ft. 5 in | 130        | light          | oval             |

| 9h. COLOR OF HAIR | 9i. COLOR OF EYES | 9j. TEETH | 9k. BUILD | 9l. POSTURE |
| ----------------- | ----------------- | --------- | --------- | ----------- |
| brown             | blue              |           | slender   | good        |

9m. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES

9n. GENERAL APPEARANCE
attractive and neat

9o. PROMINENT FEATURES
none

9p. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES
none

ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDWRITING: ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS IF OBTAINABLE

FORM 1050 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. (4-20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECTION II

**CITIZENSHIP**

1. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP 2. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 1.)
   Costa Rican
   Costa Rican - no subsequent

3. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant)
   Presidential Gardens, Alexandria, Virginia

4. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 3.)
   San Juan Tibas, San Jose, Costa Rica

5. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

6. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)
   Panama in 1943 to visit sister Argentina and again in 1944 and 1945. To the U.S. (Port of Entry Norfolk, Virginia) in 1947 with husband Arthur Burgett to live in Ohio and Wisconsin. To Guatemala in February 1954 to visit Argentina for two months. To Cuba fr. 1944 and 1953 (July) to visit sister Argentina to U.S. on 14 April 1958 to visit

# SECTION III

**OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA**

1. PRESENT OCCUPATION 2. TITLE 3. SALARY (Per annum)
   Beautician

4. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposits, securities and property)
   Not known - not believed to have any assets

# SECTION IV

**ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS**

1. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
   Catholic

2. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS: POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS
   None

# SECTION V

**EDUCATIONAL DATA**

1. SCHOOLS

| NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL                 | NAME OF COURSE | DATES ATTENDED | DEGREE RECEIVED |           |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --------- |
|                                             |                | FROM           | TO              |           |
| Gregg Shorthand School San Jose, Costa Rica |                | 1950           | 1952            | Graduated |
|                                             |                |                |                 |           |

2. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

| LANGUAGE (List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.) | COMPETENCE |       |       |            |     |     |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ----- | ----- | ---------- | --- | --- |
|                                                                                    | READ       | WRITE | SPEAK | UNDERSTAND |     |     |
|                                                                                    | YES        | NO    | YES   | NO         | YES | NO  |
| Spanish (native)                                                                   | X          |       | X     |            | X   |     |
| English                                                                            |            | X     |       | X          |     | X   |

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECTION VI SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

1. INDICATE ANY WRITING. GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES. ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICATION DATES.

None

2. SPECIAL SKILLS. ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

None

# SECTION VII MILITARY SERVICE

| COUNTRY | DATES   | UNIT | RANK | DUTY |
| ------- | ------- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| NA      | FROM TO |      |      |      |

*IDENTIFYING COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS. WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS IF WAR PRISONER.

# SECTION VIII EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY GOVERNMENT EMPLOYMENT.

|                                          |                                         |                       |                               |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 2. EMPLOYER | 3. ADDRESS                              | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING         |
| 1957-present (see attached)              |                                         |                       |                               |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK                          |                                         |                       |                               |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 2. EMPLOYER | 3. ADDRESS                              | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING         |
| 1953 - 1957 Pordallo Beauty Parlor       | San Jose, Costa Rica                    | $35 per mo            | came to U.S.A.                |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK                          |                                         |                       |                               |
| beautician                               |                                         |                       |                               |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 2. EMPLOYER | 3. ADDRESS                              | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING         |
| 1947 - 1949 Gina's Cocktail Lounge       | Panama City                             | $85 per mo            | departed for Costa Rica       |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK                          |                                         |                       |                               |
| cashier                                  |                                         |                       |                               |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 2. EMPLOYER | 3. ADDRESS                              | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING         |
| 1945 - 1946 Kresch Cafe & Car            | Colon, Republic of Panama               | $110 per mo           | married and departed for U.S. |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK                          |                                         |                       |                               |
| cashier                                  |                                         |                       |                               |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To) 2. EMPLOYER | 3. ADDRESS                              | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING         |
| 1942 - 1944 Post Exchange                | Fort Randolph, Fort Sherman, Canal Zone | $75 per mo            | left with sister              |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK                          |                                         |                       |                               |
| Soda fountain                            |                                         |                       |                               |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SECTION IX

1. CHECK ONE:
   SINGLE MARRIED WIDOWED SEPARATED DIVORCED ANNULLED

2. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

Married Arthur Burgett, U.S. citizen, U.S. Navy, at Cristobal, Canal zone, in March 1916. Livorced in 1947.

Married William Parker, U.S. citizen, Canal zone employee, early 1950 in Panama City. Divorced early 1951.

WIFE OR IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
HUSBAND: GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

3. NAME OF SPOUSE
   see above

4. DATE OF MARRIAGE
   see above

6. DATE OF BIRTH
   not known

8. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
   U.S.A.

(First) (Middle) (Nee) (Last)

5. PLACE OF MARRIAGE
   see above

7. PLACE OF BIRTH
   not known

9. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
   none

10. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Lost residence, if deceased)
    not known

# SECTION X

| FULL NAME | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |
| --------- | --- | ------------- | -------------- | -------------------- |
| none      |     |               |                |                      |
|           |     |               |                |                      |
|           |     |               |                |                      |
|           |     |               |                |                      |
|           |     |               |                |                      |

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give his, or her, present address)


# SECTION XI

1. FULL NAME
   Alberto CORDERO Loaiza

5. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
   none

# SECTION XII

1. FULL NAME
   Eora CALDERON-Martinez

5. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS
   none

|                  |                            |                         |     |
| ---------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------- | --- |
| 2. YEAR OF BIRTH | 3. PLACE OF BIRTH          | 4. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |     |
| 1897             | San Jose, Costa Rica       | Costa Rican             |     |
| 6. OCCUPATION    | 7. PRESENT RESIDENCE       |                         |     |
| shoemaker        | deceased 10 October 1962   |                         |     |
| 2. YEAR OF BIRTH | 3. PLACE OF BIRTH          | 4. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |     |
| 1899             | San Jose, Costa Rica       | Costa Rican             |     |
| 6. OCCUPATION    | 7. PRESENT RESIDENCE       |                         |     |
| housewife        | deceased 29 September 1956 |                         |     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

## SECTION XIII

| FULL NAME                  | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH       | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH  |     |
| -------------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | --- |
| Federico CORDERO Calderon  | X   | 1911          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |
| Franklin CORDERO-Calderon  | X   | 1915          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica (deceased) |     |
| Antonio CORDERO-Calderon   | X   | 1919          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |
| Cladys CORDERO-de CALIFO   | X   | 1921          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica (deceased) |     |
| Argentina CORDERO-Calderon | X   | 1918          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |
| Mario CORDERO-Calderon     | X   | 1923          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |
| Isabel CORDERO de BARANJO  | X   | 1929          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |
| Azdruval CORDERO-Calderon  | X   | 1931          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |
| *Norma CORDERO de GREGOR   | X   | 1932          | San Jose, Costa Rica | Costa Rica            |     |

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sister and give his, or her, present address)

*may be naturalized U.S. citizen - residing at 160 Main St., Quincy Pt. Mass.

## SECTION XIV RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

1. NAMES OF RELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICE: INDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELD.

None

2. RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)

sisters - see Section XIII

3. NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number of certificate granted)

see Section XIII

4. NAMES, ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE.

## SECTION XV PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

1. LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

## SECTION XVI MISCELLANEOUS

DATE

April 1950

SIGNATURE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

Section II

#6 - sister Argentina. (B-2 visa issued at San Jose, Costa Rica, No. V 2056 500 issued on 3 April 1957, Port of Entry, Miami, Florida).

Section VIII

| Dates        | Employer                    | Address                                |
| ------------ | --------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| 1957         | Manicurist Salon BORDALLO   | San Jose, Costa Rica                   |
| 1957         | Unemployed                  | Havana, Cuba                           |
| 1957-1958    | Salon BORDALLO              | San Jose, Costa Rica                   |
| 1958         | Unemployed                  | 160 Main St., Quincy, Mass.            |
| 1958         | Salon MODERNO               | Mexico City, Mexico                    |
| 1958-1959    | Unemployed                  | 180 Main St., Quincy, Mass.            |
| 1959-1960    | Student at Wilfred Academy; | New York, New York                     |
|              | Glamour Cut;                | Bronx, New York                        |
|              | Ciro's Coffiure;            | New York City                          |
|              | Jacques Beauty Salon.       | New York City                          |
| 1960-present | Temporarily unemployed      | 225 Burgess Ave., Alexandria, Virginia |

* The dates were taken from passport travel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

April 15, 1960

TO: Central Cover Division, Notional Cover

Attention: Mr. Dick Diladeau

Subject: Harold R. NOLMAYR (p)

Attached is a review made by HO-MAYR of the notional cover provided by your office in 1957. You will note that NOPMAYR included some operational information in the report so you will be better able to assess his cover. In view of the sensitive information contained in the attachment it is requested that it receive special handling.

John G. Heyn
Chief, WH/3/Mexico

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# A RESUME OF THE USE OF A "EOTICHAL COVER" EMPLOYMENT

Harold A. Fоеmаут 10 April 1960

1. The following "notional cover firm" was established in April 1957
   and backstopped mail-cable-telephone checks:

   Public Surveys Instituta 532 Fidelity Union Life Bldg
   General Polling Service 1511 Bryan Street
   Riverside 1-3674 Dallas, Texas

A fow hundred business carde were printed up both in Washington and
locally in Havana, Cuba for my use. It was agreed that stationary would
be printed up and some correspondence should be initiated from Havana.
The business cards were first used in May 1957 in Havana; renting an
apartment, purchasing furniture, automobile, and among friends and
acquaintances. It was later used as a developmental recruitment approach
with known communists in Havara- details set forth with each case
reviewed here.

2. Generally, it is believed that this cover held up well with Latinamericar
   in Cuba, Mexico, Costa Rios, Peneme. It was received with some curiousitj
   by some Americans living abroad in these countries, and was often questic
   "Well, what do you do?" Actually, university background in economics made
   it possible for me to answer and converse professionally, and only diffi-
   culties ever encountered with with two persons who were in a position to
   appeal to my firm for services. This, of course, made it obvious that I
   had to be prepared at all times to actually render some service or procen
   a valid technical reason for not being able to do so. To my knowledge,
   this cover firm has never been com; romised as such, and it has only been
   seriously challenged on one occasion. This was a neweman in the Sierra
   Maestra in Cuba and will be set forth in detail.

3. It would be impossible, of course, to remember and record every"brushing"
   acquantance that has been given this business card. But the well known
   and more important ones are listed for Cuba as follows:

   Bernardo ALAEZ: Spanish Cuban, about 50 years old, a former
   Calle 64 No. 908 Ap. 2 "Prio man" (Carlos PRIO Socarras). Was a police
   Almendares, Lieutenant and anti-communist strongarm man.
   La Habana, Cuba Also worked for the Military Attache (US) in
   Havana. Has recommended for recruitment as a
   spotter in 1955, but not favorably received.
   because "new blood" was sought.

   Angel BOAR Acostat Het in Cuatemala in February 1954. Cuban exile.
   Present address unk. BOAN was a news and radio announcer in Quatemala
   not a comsunist, but enjoying entree with them
   Was later encountered in Havana in 1956 and in
   1957, employed by our station as one the
   AMPHODARCH project. He was later terminated and
   now believed to have been re-activated in Havana


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

4. On 11 March 1958 I went into the Sierra Kaestra mountain range of Santiago, Oriente Province, on an assignment as obeerver with the Fidel CASTRO Rus revolutionary movement. CASTÃO "cleared" me for this assignment and was given my business card. It was also considered operationally advantageous to "drop a hint" to CASTRO from another direction as to my true mission. During the period 11 March - 1 April 1958, the following percons were either given a business card or informed of the cover firmi

Fidol CASTRO Rus Commander, 26 July Revolutionary
Ernesto (Che) QUEVARA 8. 2nd in Command, Commandor 4th Supply Colum.
Rene RODRIGUEZ Crus Adjutant and Chief of Sabotage in Havena
Celia SANCHEZ Manduloy Starf Sourotary
Raydee SANTAMARIA Cua rado Staff Liaison
Ramiro VALDEZ Menondes 2nd in Command, 4th Column

Civilian Componentsi

Sra. Herminia de QR 500 Civilian Coordinator and Secretary of
Tel. Santiago 2424 Finances in Santiggo
Felipo CORRALES Owner of the estate and sanatorium "San
Juan Bautista" located about 10 to 15 miles
SSE of Manzanillo, Oriente. CORRALES was
high-level official in Manzanillo sector
and managed a clandestine supply-porsonnel
route to Sierra Maestra.
Ramon FAJARDO Owner of the. Finca, La Candelaria
and the bodega El Toro, camino de Estrada
Palma. About 30 miles SE of Manzanillo.

Newspaperment

Andrew St. George Time-Life photographer and free-lancer.
104 Pearsall Drive, St. George made several trips of considerable
Et Vernon, B.Y. duration into the Sierra and in addition to
his journalism, was debriefed by our organi-
sation and the State Department. He was a
very shrewd photographer and an observing
person. We became very close during those
weeks and he eventually drew ne aside and
told me that he wanted to bring me in
contact with some friends of his in Washing-
ton who would like to talk to me concerning
the military and intelligence aspects of
CASTRO's movement. While I do not think that
he strongly doubted my cover firm, he seemed
to recognise my approach as more for military
intelligence than journalism or economies.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Charles SCHUMAN
348 East 19th St.,
New York City
Tel. Oregon 4-7360

United Press International. This was his trip into the Sierra and he was very green for camp life and had no knowledge of Spanish or their history. It was a cimple matter to give him a hand in everything and become his interpreter during the entire assignment. This gave me a lot of access persons and information that I would normally have to struggle for - but eventually, his being a veteran nawanan - he recognised my approach as something more than journalien. He put it in a few words, saying that I was ontirely too thorough- too many field trips, too many technical photographs, etc. He came out and asked if I did belong to my true oranisation. It became necessary to become very convincing here) and I think that I did eventually allay his musicions.

5. On December 29, 1958, I returned to Havana for a second assignment in the Sierra Maestra which wa interrupted by the fail of the BATISTA regimo. During a period of three weeks, the following persons were given the business cards:

George KAPPES
George Michael KAPPES (Micky)
Calle k, No 58 Ap 5,
Vedado
La Habana, Cuba
Home Address:
2530 Woodhull Ave.
Bronx 69, H.Υ.

Don Soldini
120 Laconia Ave,
Statten Is., & Y.

Jay Mallon
Life Magazine, Havana
Tel. P-6579

KAPPES is now employed with Harry Wassel & Associates in Havans - he was then in Havara in the employ of Fidel CASTRO as an Under-water demolition expert and was in the process of sabotaging the Cuban destroyer "Joso Marti". He had lost his contact with the movement and did not speak Spanish I helped him make contact and remove the explosives he ramained in Havana. (This has been reported complete with photographs.)

U.S. volunteer rifèeman with Fidel CASTRO. Present whereabcute unknown

Charles Schuman and Andrew St. George wero also met again on this trip.

6. In Mexico City, from 7 June 1958 to 12 March 1960, the cover employment was used from renting houses and apartment, schools, purchase of automobile, and with general acquaintances:

Agustin Bivana Torres,
703 Martin Mendalde,
Colonia del Valle,
Mexico 12, D.F.

Owner and rentor of the addressgiven.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

## .atod tnemtioq

.oni stesatisqA *WOIZA*

## HOXTOO J' D'E

.teJ A--ee-ES

Loodoe asoltoma orebol

But not safoor All

## HEXTOO JS D'A

.csonetatsωρολ

## ТОТО

ЗАІRAT orlobol

SI.of Noot cotnok charze
stattotiei lob staolo bas

.csonstatsuDOA

## VILLOGO TEDENV

## HEXICO 13 DE

COA GA DESI .Of Stone Lette
elley leb sinclo

## R0X700 JS DA

beansoor - "etoyoo" & sonstratupol

.om tot eengoli atevith tatil ya

> [Figure: a person speaking into a microphone]

.Α.2 στολel Botna

81-12-11 .LeT emol

edelemesel El no tasbioos elldonotus yn ddiw nottoscno al
edt To Totoegant Isael,HARUI (UN) 8 of devta esa biso naentand

Day onwer of Fre

Cajje qe jee cras

27FTO

|                                  |
| -------------------------------- |
| ju26 46 מסן )TURALiCE comber) ww |
| wwe                              |

BOJTAS

18:exiba) .bevlovai eloidev Tedto
Tallat egaisg edt of nevta cais aew biso edt (.ooted sosverze

.to cotxe de eeliste ella no eilsete coinsoon ob
sentand ads del dosad Si no laviris conta stataziv alzhnazela al

To ancareq Batwollol edt dit moltsottiinebi tot been saw biso

anoituskant

.cal Baebied Latinebiseri

.SVA RONZE.
SV etibaaze IA

betto anezhbs edt to тоздей

Βουκ ολίγοer open Ε' κθομ

ttbeto bas sawooos Noedo gainege το

Βοοποτολ

180 gaituent bas AAA gainiot to

outtatot garisador του

στοχά .Η Batal

.avi esegue ass
dass notatmo bio

180x800 1-8500

Bop yugreas

## АЛА

дей

.12 notanidaaw 2 SLE

.av sirbasxe LA

1910...

.00 outlet notantou

. 
. 
8°

2 ROLE CTоре на

14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

9. Finally, the following persone are friends and relatives that at different times have been given a business card or informed of its:

Mr. & Mrs. L.E. Crosier
Longwont RR #1 Box 243
Colorado.
Tel: Meade 2424

Parents

Alicia C. de Crus
3321 Foland Drive,
Santa Cruz, Calif.

Friend of the family

Jose A. Chacon
P.O. Box 469,
San Jose, Costa Rica

Friend of the family

Arthur Gregor,
160 Main Street,
Quincy 69, Mass.

Brother-in-law

Mrs. Norma Gregor,
160 Main Street,
Quincy 69, HABO

Bister-in-law

Grant Heitsig
Calle Ja No. 9609
Miramar, La Habana, Cuba

Aoquaintance.

Ouillermo Loaiza,
550 Riverside Drive,
New York 27, N.Y.

Wife's cousin

Fernando NARANJO A.
P.O. Box 3881,.
San Jose, Costa Rica

Boother-in-law

Isabel NARANJO
P.O. Box 3881,
San Jose, Costa Rica

Sister-in-law

Tony Portilla,
3907 Bruce St. (Formerly)
Alexandria, VA.

Acquaintance

Bernardo Wolf
P.O. Box 1656
San Jose, Costa Rica

Aoquaintance

Mr. Frenois Williams,
16 Kendig Rd,
Hickory Hille RR #1
New Carlisle, Ohio

Old Fréénd


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

Cuy Shirflot:
1001 Coleman St.,
Charlottesville, Va.
Tol. 2-4302

Orestes PADILLA
Miramar. B-5440
Office N-9721

Roberto PUENTE Blanco
Tel. U-3857 and U-3231
Federacion Estudiantil
Universitario (FEU).
And mother, Pilar BLANCO,
Tel. I-9366.

Alberto RUBIERA
Translator on Bohemia
magasino.

Juan BRADMAN
CMQ-TV, Havana

U.S., Virginian, worked as a loom technician in Cuba from 1954 to 1958. Guy is a fishing and family friend. No political interests in Cuba or U S.

Cuban, Lawyer. Active leader of the 26 July Revolutionary Movement in Havana. Has given to me as useful contact and potentiei sposter. Worked about 4 months in 1957 and assisted in setting up escape poute for him - rather, one of his leaders thru the Costa Rican Ambassador and the Brazilian embassy.

Both are AMPHOPARCHS and are currently leaders in the Directorio Revolucionario (DR). I also met the brother Pedro PUENTE Blanco in Miami - he is curre:: ly an official in the FEU.

Cuban, about 28-30 years old, was secretary of organization (?) in the Juventud Popular Socialista (JSP) in Havana. The cover firm was utilised during a lengthy developmental approach. He originally engaged as my translator for a short story of mine which was published 9 Sept 1957 issue of Bohemia. He was eventually approached on the possibility of working for a local survey on "economic" aspects of "labor supply" in Cuba. He resisted all ap oaches. He was later arrested by the Buro de Repression de Actividades Comunistas (ERAC) and interrogated. During body search, my PSI business card turned up - he told the simple gruth about our relationship and to cur knowledge nothing ever came of the incident. (This was learned through our liaison contacts with Cuban BRAC. )

White, Cuban, originally from Guantanamo, Cuba. Employed as small parts actor on CMQ TV and was strongly indicated as high level intellect-ual crypto-communist. Travelled behind curtain once. I cultivated BRADMAN over long period and eventually used the "survey" pitch. He refused because the Cuban Buro de Investigacion had his residence under surveillance and were questi náng or searching his quarters regularly.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

15 March 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: FD/HAAS

FROM: Chief, MD

SUBJECT: Harold R. HOLMAYR (pg)
Career Agent

1. Harold R. HOLMAYR left Mexico City on 12 March 1960 for PC3 assignment at Headquarters. He arrived in Washington, D.C. on 12 March.

2. It is requested that HOLMAYR's complete salary be deposited to his bank account.

R.U. Dahlgren, C/WH/3

Distribution:
Orig. # 2 - Addressee
1 - WH/B&F
1 - Mexi chrono
Subject

![signature]

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

449 DMCL/SE/M

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 10 MAR 60

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

MAR 11 0209Z 60

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 2 (MR HEYN, WH DIV NOTIFIED 2150 10 MAR 60)

INFO: COP, C/CCD 2, C/CI, S/C 2

PRIORITY

IN 11770

TO DIR INFO CITE

RE MEXI 5261 (IN 10787)** MEXI 5269

1. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ETA WASH 12 MARCH VIA AMERICAN AIRLINES FLIGHT: 380 WILL CALL BYNAM AT HOME ON ARRIVAL. NO RESERVATIONS NECESSARY.

2. ASSUME COVER BACKSTOPPED PER REF REQUEST. SUGGEST BE COVERED FOR EITHER CABLE OR TELEPHONE REQUEST SINCE FLIGHT FROM MEXI DIRECT TO DALLAS WHERE CONNECTS 380. QUESTION SOLVENCY MAY ARISE DALLAS SITE OF COVER COMPANY.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES..

**STATED NEED ASSURANCE COVER WILL BE BACKSTOPPED IF NOEMAYR REQUIRED CABLE COVER ADDRESS TO VERIFY EMPLOYMENT AND SOLVENCY.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG: J. HEN

UNIT: WH/3/EXICO

EXT: 2555

DATE: 10 MARCH 1

TO: MEXICO CIE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/H 2

INFO: CCP, C/CCD 2, C/Ci, S/C 2

TO MEXI INFO

DESENSITIZED

REF: MEXI 5261 (IN 10787)

1. NOZMAYR AND FAMILY TO PROCEED DIRECTLY WASH. TRAVORD 262-60.

COVER ALERTED TO BACKSTOP E FLOWENT AND SOLVENCY.

2. ARE RESERVATIONS DESIRED? UI ON ARRIVAL WASH CALL MR. HEYN EL 65243.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *STATED NEED ASSURANCE COVER WILL BE BACKSTOPPED IF NOEMAYR REQUIRED CABLE COVER ADDRESS TO VERIFY EMPLOYMENT AND SOLVENCY.

COORDINATIONS:

CCD/NC/NR. BILADSAU (BY PHONE)

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

DATE : 9 MAR 60

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION : C/WH 2

INFO : COP, C/CI, S/C 2 *

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

MAR 9 0653Z 60

ROUTINE

IN 10787

CITE MEXI 5261

TO DIR INFO

RE MEXI 5206 (IN 46565) **

1. NOEMAYR CAR SOLD 2 MARCH FOR 680 DOLLARS HIGHEST PRICE FINALLY OBTAINABLE. POUCHING FULL REPORT.

2. TENTATIVE ETD NOEMAYR AND FAMILY NOW 11 TO 13 MARCH. ADVISE PRIORITY DESTINATION DESIRED. ASSUME WASH BUT WISH CONFIRM.

2. ALSO NEED ASSURANCE COVER WILL BE BACKSTOPPED IF NOEMAYR REQUIRED CABLE COVER ADDRESS TO VERIFY EMPLOYMENT AND SOLVENCY. ODACID REP MEXI SUGGESTED HE BE PREPARED SUPPLY SUCH PROOF IF CALLED FOR.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION SAME AS REFERENCED CABLE.

**STATED THAT NOEMAYR'S ETD WAS DEPENDENT ON SALE OF CAR.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

459 DHCL/NCB/2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 17 FEB 60

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 2

INFO: COP, C/CCD 2, C/CI, DD/S, SSA, D/OP, OS 2, S/C 2

ROUTINE

IN 43086

TO: DIR INFO: MEXI 5153

REFS: A. DIR 14001 (OUT 91470)*

B. HMA 14463

DESENSITIZED per CSII 43-23

DESENSITIZED

1. NOEMAYR LOST PASSPORT SOMETIME DURING WEEK ENDING 13 FEB. AFTER THOROUGH SEARCH FAILED DISCLOSE REPORTED LOSS EMB AND ON EMB ADVICE TO MEXI SECRET SERVICE SIGNED AFFADAVIT RE LOSS AT EMB AND EMB REQUESTING DUPLICATE URGENT BASIS. ESTIMATE DUPLICATE WILL BE APPROVED APPROX THREE WEEKS. REQUEST HANDLED NOEMAYR WITHOUT INVOLVING STATION.

2. DUR DELAY ARRIVAL NOEMAYR REPLACEMENT AND STATION STRONG FEELING NOEMAYR DEPARTURE SHOULD NOT BE POSTPONED FURTHER STATION PLANNING USE OLIVER Q. WIMPEN AS CUTOUT CP OPS PENDING ARRIVAL REPLACEMENT. REQUEST WIMPEN CLEARANCE BE AMENDED IF NECESSARY TO ALLOW USE AS INDICATED. ADVISE PRIORITY. WIMPEN TO BE MOVED EVENTUALLY FROM LIERST AND USED SOLELY CP OPS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *HQS STATED NOEMAYR NEW ASSIGNMENT NOT YET FIRM.

S-E-C-R-E-T

17 Feb. 60

201-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

Mr. Harold R. Noemayr

Dear Mr. Nsemayr

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Covernment, as represented by the Contracting Cificer, effective I June 1957, as amended.

Effective 15 February 1960 said contract, as amended, is further amended by adding after subparagraph (c) cí paragraph four (4) entitled "Allowances!" the following:

"(d) You will be entitled to a home service transfer allowance in conform- ance with applicable Government regulations."

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

15/

Contracting Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

![signature of NOEMAYR]

15 February 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Harold R. NOEMAYR (ps)

It is requested that the contract for Harold R. NOEMAYR, Career Agent, be amended to include a "Home Service Transfer Allowance."

J. C. King
Chief, WHD

WH/3/Mexico/CZehrung:gm

Distribution:
2 - Addressee
1 - WH/3/Mexico
1 - Subject

SECRET

![Signature of LIEDGE] 201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

10 February 1960

NOTE FOR THE RECORD:

NOEMAYR is a Career Agent in Mexico City on Project LIEDGE. According to Charlotte Zehrung he is to depart Mexico City for Hqs upon the arrival of HEGARTY. HEGARTY is scheduled for a medical release about 27 Feb 60 and should arrive in Mexico about 20 March. After a few weeks overlap, NOEMAYR should depart for Hqs about 1 April 60, ready to go to work."

According to Charlotte he prefers to take no home leave.

Apparently Mr. Gomez has been working with the Covert Training people in an attempt to place him in that type of activity in a cover status.

Per Col. King on 10 Feb Covert Training indicated that they had no interest in subject and Col. King requested the above information for use in his contact with Col. Baird in a further attempt to place NOEMAYR with OTR.

Bowers


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, OTR

FROM : Chief, WHD

SUBJECT : Harold R. NOEMAYR (pa)

Fel- 1960

1.  Reference is made to our telephone conversation on 10 February
    1960 regarding the possible use by your office of Subject. Attached
    for your information are some facts concerning his personal and opera-
    tional background.

2.  NOEMAYR has successfully worked for KUBARK under deep cover
    for eleven consecutive years. All operations officers handling sub-
    ject and his training officers at lHeadquarters have commended his
    operational capability and achievements. He received an official
    commendation from the agency for his work in Cuba.

3.  WH Division has several motives for wishing to bring NOEMAYR
    to Headquarters for a tour of duty.

a) After having lived and worked for so long under deep cover
without being able to mingle freely with Americans he needs to return
to the United States for mental and physical readjustments for himself
end his family. The fact that his wife has not been able to beooms an
American citizen and that his children have not had an opportunity to
live in the States has been of understandable increasing concern to
NOEMAYR. This, combined with the stress of his double lifo required
by his deep cover position and his non-association with anyone except
his Case Officer with whom he can discuss his work and problems has
been making him increasingly more tense during the last year or two.
NOEMAYR is an extremely capable Operations Officer and WH Division
earnestly believes that it is KUBARK's responsibility to bring this
man and his family to the United States for two years. Your cooper-
ation in this effort is being sought.

b) NOEMAYR, even though he has received Headquarters covert
training, still needs to be closely associated with Headquarters for
a tour to acquire additional background on operational techniques and
approaches and to be exposed to Headquarters' activity and thinking.
This experience is requisite to making a well-rounded intelligence
operator out of NOEMAYR and will certainly affect his future useful-
ness to KUBARK.

c) A Headquarters tour will onable NOEMAYR's wife to become
a United States citizen and permit his children to receive, at least,
a part of their education in the States.

SECRET

201-168881

file

LIEDGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET

- 2 -

4. WH Division plans to bring NOEMAYR to the States the end of March 1960 in his capacity of a Career Agent. At that time a cover will be arranged for him which will be consistent with his Headquarters assignment. Appropriate cover will be decided upon only after consultation with your office if you decide to use NOEMAYR.

5. As e Career Agent, NOEMAYR will continue to be funded under LIENGS, his present project. All funds required to support NOEMAYR and his activity will be charged to this project against the WH Division allotment. In addition, WH Division will handle all administrative problems connected with HOEMAYR, such as renewal of the project, covert income tax returns, cover, etc. after coordinating such action wit your office.

6. WH Division has confidence in NOEMAYR and believes he can be of velue to CTR in its training program. The micen desk will من glad to work closely with you in the handling of NOEMAYR if you so desire. NOEMAYR is enthusiastic about his impending Headquarters assignment and is anxious to start work immediately upon return to the United States.

7. If you decire any additional information on NOEMAYR, I will be happy to make it available on request.

J. C. KING
Chiof, WHD

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

## I. PERSONAL

NOSHAYR was born on 20 June 1922 in De Kalb, Illinois. He had five years experience in General Air Force intelligence work. He was discharged from the Air Force on 18 February 1949. He attended the University of Costa Rica for three yearsthen transferred to the University of Habana. NOEMAYR speaks fluent Spanish.

He was married to Argentina CORDERO of San Jose, Costa Rica, on 17 December 1945. His wife hopes to obtain hor U. S. citizenship when NOENAYR is transferred PCS to the United States. They have two children.

## II. PHOTOGRAPH

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET

-2-

## III. CONTRACT

NOZMAYR was first placed under contract by KUBARK on 1 June 1949.
He is now under contract as a Career Agent. He is a 05-12.

## IV. COVER

NOEMAYR is operating under a notional cover. He supposedly was sent by the "Public Surveys Institute" of Dallas, Caxas, into Mexico to investigate the prospects of establishing a Mexican affiliate. Ho supplements his incoms by free-lance writing. He actually has had articles published in *Bohemia* and *Boys Life*. Subject can show these articles to support his cover. On one operational trip he took photo- graphe which appeared in the *Hew York Times* and the *New York Daily Hirror*. To further cover his sources of income NOLMAYR has let it be known that he owns property in Costa Rica and in Cuba and that rentals provide him with monthly income. When Subject returns to the U.S., WH Division will request Cover Division to assist NOEKAYR in establish- ing a new, back-stopped cover which can be used during his tour here.

## V. TRAINING

NOEMAYR received covert training at Headquarters during October and December 1953 in all phases of basic tradecraft. He was rated above average by all three of his instructors.

NORMAYR was given additional covert training in May 1958.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET

- 3 -

VI. OPERATIOKAL BACKOROUND

HOZMAYR was first recruited in Panama in November 1948 and transferred to Costa Rica under the HUMANOID PROJECT. He succoss-fully directed and exploited a high-level penetration of the Costa Rican Communist Party. Among other accomplishments he recruited two mail intercept agents, processing the take himself, and recruited thres additional ants. He also set up safe houses and was in charge of the monitoring post in a technical surveillance.

In early 1953 he was transferred to the PBSUCCESS Project with additional duties as cutout under Project ESCROW.

In 1954 he transferred to Cuba under Project AMPHODARCH. На went under cover as a studant since he had one more year of acadendo work to finish in order to receive a B.A. in Economics. In Cuba he worked on penetration of the Communist targets at the University of Habana. During the sazs period he was also in contact with subver-sive oppositionist elements.

In May, 1957, Chief CI/ICD recommended that NOZHAYR be considered for spot assignments of making recruitment pitches throughout Latin Amarica to CP targets. This recommendation was made after Mr. Paul Purke, Deputy Chief CI/ICD, had an informal discussion with NOEKAYR on 9 May on this subject. Kr. Burke believed NOKMAIR would be an effective recruiter and NOS MAYR expressed an interest in such assign-mants.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

- 4 -

In May, 1958, ha volunteered to go to the rebel mountain head- querters of Castro, in Cuba, to obtain information for KUBARK. He received a commendation for his work during this special assignment.

NOEMA YA was transferred to Mexico on 7 June 1958 where he has been handling Communist Party penstration agents and inforzants.

He spent January 1959 in Cuba on a TDY assignment similar to that he undertook in March of 1958, and for which he received his commenda tion.

## VII. OUTSTANDING PERFORMANCE AND COMMENDATIONS

On 1 Hay 1953, NOEMAYR was in charge of an attempt to physically penetrate the hous of Manual :DRA Valverde, President of the Costa Rican Communist Party for the purpose of obtaining documents which could be used to prove the Communist Party's control over the Partido Progresista Independiente, a front which had been organized to par- ticipate in the 1953 elections. When the sub-agent who was to actually perform the penetration failed to appear, NJEMAYR, realizing the u gency of the operation, voluntarily and on his own initiative made a successful surreptitious entry, removing approximately 85% of the PPI documentation plus Communist Party documents. On 24 July 1953 the President of Costa Rica signed a bill outlawing the PPI. The parti- cipation of NOSAYR in the campaign to prevent the PPI from becoming a legal party is considered to have been instrumental in its success.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

- 5 -

In May 1959 NORMAYR was awarded a monetary bonus of $300.00 in recognition of his outstanding services on behalf of KUBARK in the Sierra Maestra area during the early part of 1958. For his outstanding performance on this assignment and his great devotion to duty, NORMAYR received a personal commendation from General Cabell. In early January 1958 NORMAYR volunteered to undertake a mission to contact Cuban rebel leader Fidel Castro in the Sierra Maestra mountains in Southeastern Cuba. He spent approximately three weeks in the mountain hideout of Castro's headquarters during which time he even joined them in an actual attack on the town of Manzanillo.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 352 BD/MCB/
20 JAN 60

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: -5

INFO: OR2, S/C 2

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING

JAN 20 22332 60

ROUTINE

IN 31964

TO DIR INFO CITE MEXI 4993

REF: MEXI 4883 (IN 26097)*

1. NOEMAYR WISHES EEGIN WORK NEW ASSIGNMENT IMEDIATELY UPON ARRIVAL. NO LEAVE PLAND.

8. REQUEST INFO RE NEXT ASSIGNMENT BINCE HE HAD CHILDRENS SCHOOLING TO CONGIDER.

3. TWO WEEK MINIMUM OVERLAP WITH HEGARTY REQUIRED MEXI.

END OF MESSAGE

C/8 COMMENT: MEXI CONCURRED PROPOSAL HEGARTY AS NOEMAYR REPLACEMENTS. WOULD ADVICE LEAVE PLANS NOYMAYR ON HIS RETURN 7 JAN FROM PERSONAL BUSINESS TRIP BANJ TO SCLL HOUSE. CEPARTED MEXI FOR SANO 1 JAN.

Replacemial (HEEARTY) ETA FED
which would makI NOEMAYR ETA HAS
O/A I MARCH 60.

S-E-C-R-E-T

DOI-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

40%/30/AP/MP

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

JAN 6 02592 60

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: CCD 2, OP 2, S/C 2, DD/S, SSA

ROUTINE

II. 26097

TO: DIR

INFO: SANJ

CITE: MEXI 4853

RE: DIR 08383 (OUT 78527) (NCT SENT SANJ)

1. CONCUR PROPOSAL HEGARTY AS NOEMAYR REPLACEMENT.

2. WILL ADVISE LEAVE PLANS NOEMAYR ON HIS RETURN 7 JANUARY FROM PERSONAL BUSINESS TRIP SANJ TO SELL HOUSE. DEPARTED MEXI FOR SANJ 1 JANUARY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "HQS PROPOSED HEGARTY AS NOEMAYR REPLACEMENT."

![signature]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG: 622/SE/HP/HP
UNIT: WH/III/MEXICO
EXT: 2555
DATE: 29 DECEMBER 1959

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 5
INFO: CCD 2, OP 2, S/C 2

|                       | ROUTING           |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
|                       | 4                 |
|                       | 5                 |
|                       | 6                 |
| DEFERRED              | DEC 23 23 12 255  |
| ROUTINE               | REC'D CABLE SECT. |
| PRIORITY              | PUMAL             |
| OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE |                   |

TO: MEXI INFO
RE: E 14169 CITE DIS: OUT 78527

1. HQS PROPOSES FRANOIS R. HEGARTY AS HORMAYR REPLACEMENT. VIEW RECENT SURGERY PERFORMED ON HEGARTY HIS EARLIEST ETA ABOUT 15 FEB, REQUEST STATION CONCURRENCE.

2. ADVISE LEAVE PLANS OF HORMAIR.

WE COMMENT;

END OF MESSAGE

STATION REQUESTED HORMAYR ETD AND ETA OF REPLACE-ENT. STATION'S TENTATIVE ETD FOR HORMAIR WAS 1 JAN 1960.

![signature] J. OF KING, C/MED
RELEASING OFFI

COORDINATION

![signature] WH/PERS
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

29 Dec 59
201-168881

![signature] R.E. DAHLGREN C/WE/III
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WRD
INFO

FROM: Chief of Station, San José
SUBJECT: Operational/Field Traces CORDERO Calderon Family
ACTION REQUIRED: None; for information only
REFERENCE(S): ERS-H-1730

1. Field traces reveal the following on the CORDERO Calderon family:

a) Federico was born on 29 March 1912, has been living in Panama for several years, and is currently employed at the Union Club in Panama City;

b) Antonio had been living for several years in the Pacific Banana Zone city of Quepos, Costa Rica. Recently, he was placed in jail in San Juan de Tibas (a suburb of San Jose) on a charge of robbery;

c) Mario was born in San José on 7 February 1920 and was a militant communist prior to and during the 1948 Costa Rican Revolution. After the revolution, he left the Party voluntarily, but was reported to have been actively sympathetic towards communism for the past ten years. Another source reported this month that Mario is visited regularly by communists, who leave printed propaganda with him;

d) Aníbal was born in San José on 12 November 1928 and is currently living in San José, employed as a shoemaker in a shop owned by a communist. He is reported to be sympathetic to communism;

e) Angela Argentina was born in San Jose on 15 March 1915, now living in Mexico with her husband who is a FBI/RDE citizen. They own a house in San José, in which Mario (see c. above) now lives;

f) Gladys was born in San José on 27 February 1923, is married (common law) to a Spaniard, and has resided in Spain for many years;

g) Consuelo is living in New York City, working in a beauty parlor; There are no available traces on Norma or Isabel.

2. Discrepancies will be noted on the vital statistics as opposed to those in reference; Costa Rican Civil Registry files are the Station's source. The Registry had no file on either Norma or Isabel. Station files, inquiries to Station assets, and an investigation conducted by HUBURBOT accounted for the narrative portions of the traces. The above traces include all of the information available to the station.

Distribution:
3-Washington
2-Files

FHA:tef

18 August 1959

Floyd E. Ainonet


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, MR

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, San Jose

SUBJECT: Operational
Mario COMIERO Calderon

ACTION REQUIRED: Base, information only

REFERENCES:

1.  As an operational meeting on 8 July 1959, ESUDIB/3 told EUZARAH that he was aware of the efforts of Mario COMIERO Calderon to re-enter the PVP, presumably on ODOTORE behalf. Without waiting for a reply, HWAHOI/3 then pleaded with EUZARAH to stop these efforts for the following reasons:

    a) while handled by KOHATE several years ago, EUWARDIB/3 often had operational meetings in KOHATE's house. On occasion, EUHARIB 1/3 would be entertained by KOHATE's wife and mother-in-law until KOHATE's arrival for the meeting. EUHARDIB/3 has harbored a deep fear for years that Subject (KOHATE's brother-in-law) might have asked HWAHOIL/3 either to enter or leave the meeting site, or that KOHATE's wife, a Costa Rican national, might have (wittingly or otherwise) exposed EUHARDIB/3 to her brother.

    b) ROMAROI/3 who knows COMIERO personally, claims that COMIERO was probably a poor choice for a party penetration, since he was known to be actively sympathetic to the PVP for the past ten years. In addition, KEURILY/3 doubted that COMIERO had the necessary qualifications of intelligence and discretion to perform in the capacity of a penetration agent.

2.  EUZARAH denied any knowledge of a penetration attempt, and assured KEURILY/3 that no action would ever be taken to undermine EUHARDIB/3's position. At an operational meeting with the project case officer later the same evening, HUSKAHAN expressed deep concern over EUHARDIB/3's state of mind concerning COMIERO, and tactfully advised against EUZARAH's entry, if it were within the Station's ability.

3.  Regardless of the validity of EUHARDIB/3's allegations, it is quite apparent to the extent and the Station that EUHARDIB/3 is upset and worried about the possibility of COMIERO entering the PVP and discussing with other party members, details of KEURILY/3's part activities and contacts. As a supplementary factor, it was also felt that COMIERO's extremely limited ability, potential, and access would not be worth the security risks involved. In the interest of security and agent morale, the Station decided to step COMIERO's penetration attempt, diverting him temporarily, to provide a fuller coverage on communist labor (COTC) activities, and to perform spotting tasks for the Station.

4.  At a contact on 13 July 1959, HE set up a contact plan, and instructed COMIERO in the Station's wishes. COMIERO asserted without question, and a meeting with the Station has been scheduled for 5 August 1959.

5.  An investigation of the COMIERO family is being contacted by the Station.

![signature of Floyd H. Adcock]

17 July 1959

Distribution
3-Wash
2-Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

035/ER/CWT/CWT/CWT
DATE: 14 JULY 1959
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM SAN JOSE
ACTION: WH 5
INFO: S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 9.
SECRET
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
JUL 14 08 11:59
RECO JALE SECT.
ROUTINE
IN 40409
CHIF SANJ 3428

TO PRITY MEXI
INFO DIR
RE: MEXI 4103 (IN 37896)*

NOEMAYR AND FAMILY RETURNING MEXI 14 JULY VIA LACSA.
END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *REQUESTED ETA NOEMAYR.

![signature]
SECRET
201-16 8881
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

190 ERB/SH/SW/

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE 9 JULY 59

TO: 'DIRECTOR

FROM: SAN JOSE

ACTION: WH 5

INFO COP, CCD 2, DD/S, SSA, C/MS 2, MS, OP 2, S/C 2

ROUTING

JUL 18 14 03 Z

REC'D CABLE SECT:

ROUTINE

IN 38892

TO MEXI

INFO DIR

CITE SANJ 3427

REF MEXI 4103 (IN 37896) * SANJ 3425 (IN 38658) **

NOEMAYR RETURNED SANJ 8 JULY. ENTIRE FAMILY CONFINED BED
SERIOUSLY ILL WITH FLU. EPIDEMIC SPREADING THRU CR. WILL
ADVISE WHEN SUBJ PLANS RETURN MEXI.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED NOEMAYR'S ETA.

**NOEMAYR AND FAMILY WERE IN PACY, BUT EXPECTED TO ARRIVE SANJ VERY SOON.

SECRET

201-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

372/KM/HP/HP/
DATE 7 JUL 59

TO • DIRECTOR

FROM MEXICO CITY

ACTION WH 5

INFO S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING
1
4
2
5
3
6

JUL 9 01292 59

ROUTINE

IN 37896

INFO

TO SANJ

DIR

REQUEST ETA NOEMAYR.

CITE MEXI 4103

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

201-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRET

30 June 1959 par

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/III/Mexico - *Larry Site*

SUBJECT: Ross Lester CROZIER

1. Reference is made to your request to this office dated

17 April 1958

2. The reply to your request is contained in the attached memorandum from the Office of Security dated 29 June 1959

![signature]

Chief, CI/OA

FORM 388 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

201-168881

(47)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

29 JUN 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

FROM : Deputy Director of Security (Investigations and Support)

SUBJECT : C-25507
#112569

1. Reference is made to a mezorandum dated 17 April 1958 from WH Division through CI/OA requesting that the Covert Security Approval granted on 3 July 1957 be amended to permit Subject's utilisation as a career agent in Mexico City under Project LIEDGE.

This will confira the verbal Covert Security Approval granted to Mr. Larry Sulc, WH Division on 3 June 1958 for the use described abovel

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - Field No. 10-5, a covert security approval is granted for the use of the Subject, as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3. Subjects of covert security approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a covert security approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-210. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

![Signature of David E. Hanlon for Robert H. Cunningham]

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

DATE: 019 ER/JLS/
15 JUN 59

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: S/C 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: (PRIORITY) SANJ INFO DIR CITE MEXI 4017

1. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY DEPARTED MEXI FOR SANJ 14 JUNE BY LACSA.

2. WILL PHONE COS SANJ USING NAME ROGER.

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

182/SE/CG/CG/A
DATE 29 MAY 59
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : SAN JOSE
ACTION: WH 5
INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy. ☐
RI file this copy as indicated ☐
Branch copy filed as indicated ☐
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked ☐ None required ☑

NO. 201-32723
201-165881

MAY 30 17 4123
REC'D CABLE SECT.:

ROUTINE

TO INFO CITE
DIR MEXI SANJ 3375

REF MEXI 3931 (IN21594 )
CLOSED
SEE 201-16888/
SANJ CONCURS WITH REF PLAN.

C/S COMMENT: * REQUESTED HQS APPROVAL NOEMAYR AND FAMILY GO SANJ SOONEST.

END OF MESSAGE

![FILE CLASSIFICATION CHANGE REQUEST]

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| RI/AN   | L       |
| RI/TY   | cm      |
| DESTROY |         |
| RI/FI   |         |

29 May 59
201-168581v

FORM 1389 EDITION
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

ORIG: 663 ES/JLS/...
UNIT: WHD
EXT : 2555
DATE: 27 MAY 1959

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 5
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, CI/OA, S/C 2

PRECEDENCE
1
2
3
ROUTING
4
5
6
X ROUTINE
DEFERRED MAY 27 20 49:59
'D CABLE SECT.
INITIALS
PRIORITY
INITIALS
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

OUT 58618
CUIT50318
CITE DIR 28397

TO MEXI INFO SANJ
REF: MEXI-3931 (IN 21594)*

HQS CONCURS PROPOSED RECRUITMENT PITCH AND TRAVEL REF.

END OF MESSAGE

*WHD COMENT: SUGGEST NOEMAYR BE AUTHORIZED ATTEMPT RECRUITMENT OF BROTHER-IN-LAW, INACTIVE COSTA RICAN CP MEMBER, NON CARETAKER OF NOEMAYR HOUSE IN SAN JOSE.
NOEMAYR AND FAMILY DESIRE TRAVEL TO SANJ FOR PERSONAL REASONS ON 14 JUNE.

COORDINATE WITH:
WH/CA/S 201-168881
CI/ICD/R. WILLIAMSON (BY PHONE)

SECRET
R. I. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
J. C. KING, C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

555 ES/OBS

DATE: 26 MAY 59

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

RE Filing (check one):

No CS Record Value. Destroy.

RI file this copy as indicated

Branch copy filed as indicated

RE indexing instructions:

Marked None required

Signature:

ROUTING

MAY 27 03332 59

ROUTINE

IN 21594

TO DIR SANJ INFO CITE MEXI 3931

(WARE ACTING)

RE A. HMMA 12436

B. HRSW 1705

C. HRSA 3915

1. RE PARA 2 REF C, MEXI BELIEVES NO SECURITY PROBLEM. REQUEST HQS
   CONCURRENCE.

2. DUE LEGAL ACTION REQUIRED FOR NOEMAYR OWNED HOUSE SANJ, HIS PRESENCE
   NECESSARY SANJ DURING NEXT MONTH. HE AND FAMILY WILL ALSO UTILIZE TRIP THERE TO
   RENEW TOURIST STATUS WHICH ABOUT TO EXPIRE AND TAKE TWO OR THREE WEEKS LEAVE. IF
   RECRUITMENT PITCH AGREED TRIP WOULD PROVIDE EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY IMPLEMENT OPN
   UNDER DESIRABLE COVER CONDITIONS.

3. NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ETD FOR SANJ 14 JUNE. REQUEST APPROVAL HQS SANJ
   SOONEST. TRAVEL FUNDS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT LIEDGE.

END OF MESSAGE

![FILE CLASSIFICATION CHANGE REQUEST]

FORM 1389

S-E-C-R-E-T

![ROUTING INITIAL table]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

ORIG: 697 CVT/CBS
UNIT: WHD
EXT : 2555
DATE: 29 APRIL 1959

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO : MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 5
INFO: OP 2, S/C 2

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 24246
REF: MEXI 3786*

REF QUARTERS BENEFITS NEED NOT BE INCLUDED CONTRACT. CONTRACT STATES QUARTERS IN ACCORDANCE GOVT REGS. COS HAS AUTHORITY GRANT FOR CAREER AGENT.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMENT:
REQUEST HAS AMEND PARA 4 NORAYR CONTRACT.

*(IN 10582)

![signature of J.C. LELEASING OF]

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..

![signature of R.N. DAHLGRE, C//III]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

016 ES/OBS/UST/

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE : 29 APR 59

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5

INFO : OP 2, S/C 2

APR 29 03412 59

ROUTINE

IN 10582

TO DIR INFO CITE MEXI 3786

(WARE ACTING)

RE HMMS 726

REQUEST HQS AMEND PARA 4 HAROLD R. NOEMAYR CONTRACT PERMIT FR 115-1050

BENEFITS RETROACTIVE TO 1 AUGUST 1958.

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CC: NOEMEYR

201-169971

Copy No

![photo of document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Project LIEDGE (General)

ACTION REQUIRED: See para 3

REFERENCE(S):

1. HS-H-6:20, dated 11 June 1958
2. HS-H-7302, dated 13 February 1959
3. HS-H-7407, dated 6 March 1959

DISPATCH STAB D AND NO: HS-A-12611 - KAPCE-1595

HEADQUARTERS LE NO: 50-6-67/1

DATE: 10 April 1959

RE: 433 (CHECK "X" ONE)

MAPPED FOR INDEXING

NO PROFING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIF!ED HQ. DESI. ONLY

1. Attached is a cover review of the notional cover under which Harold E. HOMAYE, the principal component for Project LIEDGE, has been operating. This analysis was mainly written by HOMAYE, himself, with additions made by the Station. It is requested that this review be sent to Cover Division for their study.

2. The following constitute the basis for which the Station is requesting that Project LIEDOR be renewed for the period 1 May 1959 through 30 April 1960:

a. As this is a support project for the maintenance of Harold E. HOMAYE, an outside case officer whose responsibilities comprise the running of operations currently in progress against the Communist movement in Mexico, there is no direct product derived other than that obtained from projects LIONHEART, LIMAD and LI

b. As of 1 January 1959, Project LIEGHOUSE was transferred to a case officer under official cover at the station, and must, therefore, not be included as one of the operations under the direction of FOEMAYR.

c. FOEMAYR has continued to manage operations under his control very satisfactorily and fully justifies the expenditure of KUBARK personnel, time, funds and the security risk involved. (For production specifics, consult reviews for projects LIONHEART, LIFEAT AND LEIAD.)

d. Operations under jurisdiction of this Project are the primary projects possessed by the Station against the Communist movement and are based on Priority A requirements of the Station'a Related Mission Directive.

e. This Project has continued to satisfy those requirements necessary to maintain an outsian case officer under the Cosmist penetration progres.

f. There is no change anticipated in operational planning for the future of this Project, nor are there any changes believed necessary in line with altered political or operational conditions or any other changing situations.

g. During the period under review (1 May 1958 - 30 April 1959) funds obligated total U. S. $22,270. It is requested that the same obligation be made for the period 1 May 1959 - 30 April 1960.

h. All commitments are contained in the contract for Herald E. FORMAyre in the oral agreements with subagents LIJERSEY-1 and LLJOINT-L

i. LIJERSEY-1 continues to sarve es cutout for LEOLD-1, a high-level penetration of the Partido Populor (PP) and the Union General de Obreros-Campesinos Mexicanos (UGOCN), but changes are anticipated in this status. Since LEEED-l's recruitment by LLJERSEY-1 on 15 August 1957, LDMOLD-1 has been handled by LLJERSKY-1 in a loosely-controlled mmer. LD:OLD-1 still does not subunit sensitive init on his organisations nor dos he know that he is receiving funds monthly from an agency of ODFEE. FOEMAYR is currently attempting to obtain & direct interview with LDKID-1- as arranged with LLJERRY-1- in order to either establish direct contol of the agent or, on the negative side, to determine if LIMOLD-1 should be termiunted. Thus far, LEED-1 has not appeared, for apparently valid reasons, at any of the scheduled seetings with JORNAYR. When contact is finally established it mybe that


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

LDJUG-1 will react negatively upon learning that he is and has been working for GYTOP, but this risk is considered by the Station to be worth while because of the lack of production of LIMID-A during the past 10 months. If LDOFD-1 accepts direct control by KEMAIR, then LLJERIFY-1 may be separated from his present function and placed on a stand-by status for conducting new penetration approaches to members of the Communist movement in Mexico.

J. ILFOIFT-1 has been placed on an inactive status until such time as her services may be required in new penetration operations. As such she does not receive a monthly salary, but merely spot payments and a Christmas bonus for occasional assignments performed by her.

3. It is therefore suggested the Project LIDUS be renewed for the period and amount of funds as stated in subparagraph 6, paragraph 2 above.

Willard C. Curtis

8 April 1959

Distribution:
3 - Hqs w/att
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# 14-00000

SUBJECT: Cover Review for Harold R. NOMAYR

1.  The leading factor that has been responsible for the maintenance of a suitable cover arrangement for HORMAYR has been the flexibility and adaptability of HEKAYR himself. Without this person's fundamental ability to mold his cover around his personal qualifications, the notional cover story vould not have been adequate in Mexico. Hozæver, to date, this cover has provided the added backstopping needed to peruit NORMAYR to give a convincing appearance of being gainfully ceployed and with no apparent inference to COOKE connections.

2.  When NOEMAYR originally was assigned to Mexico City, he stopped in Dallas, Texma en route here in order to visit the cover address of his supposed cover concerns that ho could be avare first hand of the details surrounding this company. In Jcvember-Deccaber 1958 he became acquainted with several Texans who were considering business opportunities in Mexico and although they were not from Dallas - was able to mccessfully convince than of the legitimacy of his business. In this case, as is usual with his general cover story, he also shovel then published articles in Bohezala and Boys Life, written under his true nane, to further illustrate his varied means of financial support.

3.  As stated above, the notional cover fira alone wuld probably not satisfy NOMAIR's cover requirements, but when combined with his actual vriting activitios, it furnishes & fairly well-rounded background story. Thus caerges the basic necessity for this type of cover: cone large grains of truth mixed tastefully with the nebulous aspects of a notional story.

4.  The exact manner by which WOFMAYR achieves this impression is as follows:

a. He mentions that his cover firm has sent him into Mexico to investigate the prospects of establishing a Mexican affiliate. HOMAYR's absences from Hexico (once in July 1956 for consultation in Washington and again in January 1959 on TDY to Cuba) are thus explained as added surveys of this nature outside of Mexico - thus providing the pattern of flexibility in movement.

b. To implement his income, HOFMAYR has taken up free-lance writing and can prove his accomplishments by exhibiting his published articles. His home has office space that is surrounded by populer literature, mamuscripts and other aids that a writer would nomally possess.

c. To further cover for his source of income, NOEMAYR has let it be known that he owns property in Costa Rica and in Cuba (places where he was previously assigned - the Costa Rican property is actual) and that rentals provide him with monthly income.

d. MOEMAYR does not attempt, however, to mix with the American communisty in Mexico, but prefers to lend the general impression thathe wishes to get "dom to grass roots" in dealing with the native environment. His residence is situated in a middle to upper class neighborhood largely settled by Hexican families. He the creates the impression of a slightly "bohemian American writer who has adapted his life during long experience in Latin America, to local conditions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

-2-

DESENSITIZED

5.  For the remainder of his tour in Mexico (his first year will expire in June 1959), HOEMAYR believes that his present cover will be entirely suitable. However, should KURARK desire to continue the same cover arrangement for his successor - at the end of his normal tour - it is sugested that thought be given to the establishment of a registered affiliate of an American concern, with the accompanying requirement of securing the costly working papers necessary for regular employment in Mexico. This would be particularly of value if his successor should happen not to possess the type of back ground that would permit independent activity in support of his cover, as is writing in HOEMAYR's case.

DESENSITIZED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, LF Division

INFO
Chief of Station, San Jasa

FROM
Chief of Station, Faxico City

SUBJECT
Proposed Costa Rices CP Penetration

ACTION REQUIRED

REFERENCE(S)

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO:
EN-A-12434

MEADQUARTERS FILED

DATE
13 March 1359

RE: 43-3
CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED INDEXING

NO INDERING REQUIRED.

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALE.ED HQ. DESK ONLY

1. As recorded in Zcadquarters files, PAYR's brother-in-law, Marie CORDERO Calderon, Costa äls, residing in San Juan Sibas, San Jose, Costa is onze & munber of the Costa Rican CP. Mario'a first loyalty had been to the CALECTOTISZA party, but since the latter was allied with the CP, a great deal of recruitment had taken plave within the allegiawe. Kerio drifted fra P ailitancy shortly after the 1343 revolution

2. If the organization so desires, all the factors are present for the reciteent of Hario and retura to CP militancy with a low to nedives leval peretzation as the objective. These factors are as follows:

a. Hario CORDERO has been carstakar and therefore living in MAYE' house in Costa Rica for the past two years. On tid occasions during visits in 1956 and 1957, WORMAYR converted at sove length with Mario concerning the Costa Rica CP. Nario Indicated very emphatically that be was dispsted with thez (party icedera) because of the corruption.

b. Lattern received from Hario during the past year have ladieated no change in this attitude. Mario de extremely grateful to A for this period of residence without graying rent. (Mario is a abresaker of hole LESALE).

3. MFMAYE is reasonably certats that Hario CORDERO would accept such en offer and could return to CP militancy without security problems. It is believed that with a little guidance and manipulation, Norto could become a medium Level peretution with a relatively abort time. While not having are then an clonestory school education, Mario is a stolid type sincere and detersined in his own way. Dace satisfied that be could improve his lot by this service, he could land a steady and reliable service.

HEM/cpa

16 March 1959

Bistributioar
3 - Haga

1 - Sen Jose

2- Files

Villard C. UZIG

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, WH Division

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
Harold R. NOEMAYR

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
IMM-T-719

DATE
11 March 1959

RE: 43-3 (CHECK "X" ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

It is requested that the Station be sent a copy of the original contract for Harold R. NOEMAYR and a copy of each amendment thereto.

Willard C. CURTIS

PCK

PCK/cps

8 March 1959

Distribution:
3 - HQs
2 - Files

Grid- 11 MMS-726

201-168851


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

# DISPATCH

JB Division

SECRET

BMM-T-723

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Medical Reimbursement for Harold R. ROEDMAYR

DATE

11 March 1959

RE: "43-3" (CHECK "X" ONE)

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HG DISK ONLY

A. BMM-T-535

B. BMM-6-559

1.  Attached, per Headquarters instructions in reference B., are the required documents from Harold R. ROEDMAYR applying for reimbursement for medical treatment required by his dependent daughter. These include Form 1126, receipts for payments made and a statement from the attending physician as to the treatment given. The physician's statement merely indicates that he provided medical care and a biopsy, without delving into the nature of the illness, his diagnosis or specific treatment. Mrs. ROEDMAYR was unable to obtain any further declaration from the physician and security considerations prevented her from becoming more demanding on this point.

2.  If Headquarters requires a more elaborate statement, would it be permissible for ROEDMAYR to certify as to the missing aspects from the physician's statement? Otherwise, no other document of this nature is available.

KC/jps

Attachment - as stated above - receipts u/s/c

10 March 1959

Distribution:

1 - Add w/att

2 - Files

Willard C. CURTIS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

ORIG: R.REYNOLDS
UNIT: WH/III/CARIB
EXT: 2056
DATE: 25 FEBRUARY 1959

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONA: WH 5

/LSR/LSB/ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, PP 2, PP/PROD, PP/PROP 2, S/C 2

TO MEXI INFO HAVA CITE DIR 114189

RE MEXI 3392 (IN 22960)*

1. ON BASIS HAVA AID ODENVY REPORTS ON HOGAN HOS PREFERS NOT IMPROVE HIS CHANCES SECURING CUBAN ACCOUNT. ACCORDING ARRAIL, CUBAN OFFICIAL IN HQS AREA 20 FEBRUARY, AN ACCOUNT MAY GO TO EITHER OF TWO FIRMS IN PBPRINE WITH WHICH KUBARK HAS CONTACT AND EITHER OF WHICH WOULD SERVE ODYOKE INTERESTS BETTER THAN HOGAN.

2. HOWEVER, IN EVENT HOGAN BEATS OUT OTHER CONTENDERS IT COULD BECOME REQUEST ADVANTAGEOUS HAVE KUBARKER IN HIS GROUP, DEPENDING ON NATURE OF ACCOUNT. THEREFORE/ NOEMAYR ATTEMPT KEEP JOB OFFER OPEN WITHOUT COMMITTING HIMSELF TO HOGAN AND THEREBY STRENGTHENING LATTER'S HAND WITH CUBANS. USE CAUTION IN TOUCHING ON WEAK ASPECTS NOEMAYR COVER STORY WHICH COULD BE CHECKED ON BY HOGAN.

3. MICKEY IS GEORGE MICHAEL KAPPES, ABOUT 24, U.S. CITIZEN WHO HAS WORKED WITH HOGAN SINCE LATE 1958

(END OF MESSAGE)

WH Comment: *Noemayr received letter dated 1 Feb from "Mickey" sounding out Noemayr for job with Don Hogan, who hopes to get major public relations contracts with Cubans

R. E. GOMEZ, AC/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER
WH/III/Mexico
COORDINATING OFFICER
R. N. DARIOTEN, C/W/III
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No. 501-1688.81


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FCR: Chief, WH Division

ATTENTION : WA/III/Mexico

SUBJECT : Cover Review - Harold Noemayr (P)

1. In compliance with the regulative responsibility placed upon Central Cover Branch for the review of nonofficial cover arrangements, it is requested that the action herein prescribed be taken in the subject case.

2. The interested Area Branch and the field station, if applicable, should make a thorough assessment of this notional cover in relation to its operational suitability and report to you on the strength or weakness of the arrangement, and any recommendation they deem advisable to strengthen it. For guidance, the field station should consider such factors as the security consideration involved and the ability of the individual to live his cover. The report from the field station, along with the Area Branch comments should be forwarded to CCS.

3. The Area Branch Desk should also advise CCS of future plans for the Agent with particular regard to termination, change of operations, change of station, extension of the Agent's tour of duty, etc., in order that Central Cover Branch may take measures to ensure cover continuity and to protect the security of the arrangement.

4. After the above-requested review has been completed, action will be taken to solve any existing problems.

5. This case will be reviewed again six months after the completion of this review, or if the Agent is being rotated or terminated, 90 days prior to his termination or departure

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

SECRET

- 2 -

from his present post. Therefore, it is requested that Central
Cover Branch be notified of pending termination or change
of station as soon as such determination has been made.

6. For matters concerning this case, please contact
   Mr. Richard J. Bialdeau Extension 8264.

![signature of JOHN G. SCUTWARD, CHIEF, CCD/NC]

CCO REMARKS:

Your attention is invited to the fact that Noemayr has
never communicated with either of his cover forms, even to
advise them of his address.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

# File NOEMAYR (201) Creprey Road Seatin (SA)

## DISPATCH

**CLASSIFICATION** S-E-C-R-E-T

**DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO** IDH-S-558

**TO** Chief of Station, Mexico City

**INFO**

**FROM** Chief, WH

**SUBJECT** Harold R. GOEMAYR

**ACTION REQUIRED** See below

**REFERENCE(S)** BOF-585

**HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.**

**DATE** 16 January '59

RE: 43-3" (CHECK ONE)

[X] NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

1. In answer to your queries of reference, we wish to direct your attention to FB 20-620-1, dated 28 November 1958, which provides information on overseas medical benefits available from KUBARK. This new handbook should be of great help in the future on questions of this nature as it sets forth in one place EUBARK provisions for employee and dependent medical benefits, together with the procedures required.

2. Section 2a of the handbook specifically states that Career Agente, if they are full-time employees and citizens of PBPRIME, may receive all medical benefits available to Staff Employees. Ecction 3a also specifically states that Career Agents, if they are full-time employees and citizens of FBPADME, are eligible to receive the benefits of the KUBARK dependent medical program.

3. We suggest that Subject forward to Headquarters receipts for his dependent medical expenses, together with a statement from his physician attesting to the nature of the illness, his diagnosis and treatment. Subject should also execute Form No. 1126 as requested in Section 5e of the sxibook. to will submit the claim to the Office of Personnel for their review and determination of any allovable reisbursement.

OLIVER G. GALBORD

29 December 1958

Distribution:

3 - Mexico City

1 - WH/Pers

1 - WH/Mailroom

WHD/RB/om


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

472 ER/WS/ CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE : 13 JAN 59

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : HAVANA

ACTION: WH 5

INFO : S/C 2

SECRET

TO PRITY MEXI INFO DIR

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
REPRO CABLE SECT.

ROUTINE

IN 47110

CITE HAVA 0893

NOEMAYR ETD HAVA 13 JAN 1715 CMA 30%. ETA MEXI 2040.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

301-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

524 RLG/R/R/!
ORIG : EUDOLPH E. GOMEZ
UNIT : WH
EXT : 8081
DATE : 10 JANUARY 1959

TO : HAVANA
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 5
INFO: S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

|                       | ROUTING           |
| --------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1                     | 4                 |
| 2                     | 5                 |
| 3                     | 6                 |
|                       |                   |
| DEFERRED              | JAN 10 16 39 Z59  |
| PRECEDENCE            | REC'D CABLE SECT. |
| X ROUTINE             | INITIALS          |
| PRIORITY              | INITIALS          |
| OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE | 50979             |

TO HAVA INFO MEXI CITE DIR 07614

REF: HAVA 0872 (IN 45998) *

APPROVED.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *STATED STA FELT NOEMAYR JOB COMPLETED. WOULD HAVE HIM RETURN MEXI IF HQS. APPROVED.

![signature of RUDOLPH E. GOMEZ/UCHH]

![COORDINATING OFFICERS SECRET]

![signature and file information]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

003 HM/DLD
ATE 29 JAN 59

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: WH 5 (MR. COBB WH DIV. NOTIFIED 0100, 10 JAN 59)

INFO: S/C 2

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
JAN 10 06 31 Z 59
REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 45998

TO: DIR INFO: MEXI CITE: HAVA 872

FEEL NOEMAYR JOB COMPLETED. WILL TELL HIM RETURN MEXI

IF HQS APPROVES.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

034 HM/DLD
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DATE 2 JANUARY 1959
SECRET
TO DIRECTOR
FROM HAVANA
ACTION WH 5 (ROBERT REYNOLDS WH ISSUED TEMPO COPY 0215 3 JAN 59.)
INFO COP, S/C 2

ROUTING
JAN 3 07 30Z
REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 43650

TO
INFO
DIR SACU
MEXI
CITE
HAVA 0805
RE: HAVA 796 (IN 43348)*:
REBELS CANCELLED AUTHORITY FOR FLIGHT ON WHICH NOEMAYR SCHEDULED GO SACU.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
201-168881
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

DATE
01 JANUARY 1959

TO
DIRECTOR

FROM
HAVANA

ACTION:
WH-6

INFO
S/C-2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
JAN 1 17 50259
REC'D CABLE SECT.
ROUTINE
IN 43176

TO
OP IM SACU

INFO
DIR MEXI

CITE
HAVA Ø778

NOEMAYR ETD HAVA FOR SACU 1 JAN 1530 CUBANA VISCOUNT.
END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

172 ES/BJ
DATE: 30 DECEMBER 1958

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY
ACTION: WH 6
INFO: S/c 2

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
DEC 30 18 03:50
REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY
IN 42435

TO: OPIM HAVA INFO PRITY DIR
CITE: MEXI 3027
REF: MEXI 3025 (IN 42393)*
CORRECTION REF: FLIGHT 565 ARRIVING 1645. HAVA TIME.
END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *NOEMAYR TO LEAVE MEXI 30 DEC.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG : R.REYNOLDS

UNIT : WII/III

EXT : 2508

DATE : 30 DEC 58

TO : HAVANA

FROM : DIRECTOR

CONA : WH 5

INFO : CI, CI/CPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, S/C 2

---

TO HAVA INFO MEXI CITE DIR 062/5

06245

REF HAVA 0746 (IN 42224) *

AMUTTER

KOEMAYR EN ROUTE HAVA CMA FLIGHT 565 WITH ETA 1645 HOURS 30 DEC. MAY
HAVE MISSED REF. IF SO, WILL DEVISE CONTACT ARRANGEMENT. CABLE HQS AND MEXI
CONFIRMATION HIS ARRIVAL.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: CONTAINED CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS FOR NOEMAYER.

---

![Signature of J.D.KING, C/WHD, RELEASING OFFICER]

J.D.KING, C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

![Signature of R.N.DAHLGREN, C/WH/III, AUTHENTICATING OFFICER]

R.N.DAHLGREN, C/WH/III

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.

301-168871

![Signature Noemayr]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

152 VCJ/BJ
DATE: 30 DECEMBER 1958

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 7
SECRET

ROUTING

DEC 30 16 31:58
REC'D CABLE SECT.

TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY
ACTION: WH 6
INFO: S/C 2

PRIORITY
IN 42393

TO: OPIM HAVA INFO PRITY DIR CITE: MEXI 3025 (WARE ACTING)

NOEMAYR LEAVING MEXI 30 DECEMBER VIA CMA FLIGHT 566
ARRIVING HAVA 1515 HOURS. WILL PHONE COS AT OFFICE.
END OF MESSAGE

![signature]
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: 10

DATE: 29 DEC 58

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 6 (MR BRADY, WH DIV, NOTIFIED AT 1800 29 DEC)

INFO: CT, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, S/C 2

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
DEC 29 23 18:58
REC'D CABLE SECT.

PRIORITY

IN 42232

TO: PRITY DIR INFO: HAVA CITE: MEXI 3019

RE: DIR Ø6062 (OUT 57143)

AMUTTER

1. NOEMAYR SUGGESTS FOLL PLAN:

A. AVOID HAVA DUE SECURITY RISK.

B. ARRANGE U.S. NAVAL AIR TRANSPORTATION TO GUANTANAMO.

C. HAVE REQUIRED SUPPLIES FOR TRIP ISSUED FROM NAVAL BASE AND WHATEVER BRIEFING DONE HELD ON BASE.

2. ΝΟΕΜΑYR ALSO CONSIDERING POSSIBLE NEED THIS TRIP CARRY SIDEARM.

3. ALTERNATE PLAN FOR SUPPLIES COULD BE PURCHASE LOCALLY MEXI AND CARRY TO JUMP OFF POINT NAVAL AIR IN U.S.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *HQS REQUESTED HAVA ADVISE MEXI SUGGESTED ITINERARY AND CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

640 RLG/RLG/
ORIG: J. B. BRADY
UNIT: WH/III
EXT: 3997
DATE: 24 DECEMBER 1958

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 6
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

DEFERRED DEC 24 23 16258
ROUTINE: CCD CABLE SECT.
PRIORITY: OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE
DETAILS: ABA
OU157143

TO: MEXI INFO: HAVA CITE DIR: 06062
AMUTTER
REF: A. MEXI 3006 (IH 40908)
B. DIR 05525 (OUT 56079)

1. POSTANY AND MARCHMAN NOT AVAILABLE IDY AS TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT NOEMAYR. MR. BALMES HIDALGO WILL ETA MEXI CA 30 DEC THIS ASSIGNMENT. NOEMAYR SHOULD PROCEED HAVA CA 1 JAN AND INFORM WIFE.

2. FOR HAVA: ADVISE MEXI SUGGESTED ITINERARY AND CONTACT ARRANGEMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of R. Gomez]

![signature of F.C. Edwards]

![signature of J.B. Brady]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

350 BD/LR/LRM

DATE: 23 DEC 58

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: CWA 5MR REYNOLDS, WH DIV, NOTIFIED AT 1725 23 DEC)

INFO: CI/OPS, FI, FI/OPS, S/C 2

1
2
3

ROUTING

4
5
6

DEC 23 22 3453

REGIO GAME ВЕСТ.

PRIORITY

IN 40978

TO INFO CITE

DIR HAVA MEXI 3026

AMUTTER

REF: DIR Ø5525 (IN 56079)*

1. NOEMAYR WILLING ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT PROVIDED:

A. WIFE BE INFORMED.

B. SUITABLE TEMPORARY REPLACEMENT SENT MEXI.

2. STATION CONCURS NOEMAYRS OPINION. OPERATIONAL
   CONSIDERATIONS NOEMAYRS AGENTS MEX! REQUIRE OUTSIDE CASE
   OFFICER THOROUGHLY ACQUAINTED LOCAL SITUATION. SUGGEST
   POSTANY OR MARCHMAN TDY.

3. REQUEST CABLE REPLY SOONEST.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN NOEMAYR RETURN FIDEL CASTRO AREA. DURATION AND NATURE MISSION SAME AS NOEMAYR 'S TRIP LAST MARCH. QUERIED WHETHER MEXI COULD RELEASE HIM FOR APPROX SIX WEEKS BEGINNING EARLY JAN.

SECRET

201-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

ORIG: R. Reynolds
UNIT: WH/II/Carib
EXT: 2056
DATE: 20 December 1958

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 5

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC, FI, FI/OPS, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO: MEXI INFO HAVA CITE DIR: 05525

AMUTTER 05525

CONSIDERATION BEING GIVEN NOEMAYR RETURN FIDEL CASTRO AREA. DURATION
AND NATURE MISSION SAME AS NOEMAYR'S TRIP LAST MARCH. AFTER CONSULTATION
NOEMAYR ADVISE FEASIBILITY THIS OP AND WHETHER STATION CAN RELEASE HIM FOR
APPROX SIX WEEKS BEGINNING EARLY JANUARY

END OF MESSAGE





Robert n. Dalgun
F.C. KING
C/RELD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

440 ER/CLD/11

DATE 19 DECEMBER 1958

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MEXIBO

ACTION: WH 5

INFO CI, CI/OPS, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
Dec 20 04 31250

REC'D CABLE SECT.

ROUTINE

IN 39959

TO DIR INFO CITE MEXT 2988

REF: HAVA Ø666 (IN 36388 )
DIR Ø4579 (OUT 54018)*

1. NOEMAYR DID NOT GO HAVA. ONLY WIFE AND CHILDREN FOR PURPOSE RENEWING THEIR TOURIST VISAS, DISPOSING BULK OF HOUSE HOLD ITEMS AND CARRYING BACK REMAINING SMALL ITEMS MEXI.

2. NOEMAYR PLANS GO TEXAS EARLY JANUARY FOR VISA RENEWAL.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED REASON FOR NOEMAYR TRAVEL TO CUBA, LENGTH OF STAY AND WHERE HE CAN BE CONTACTED.

SECRET

201-168881

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

CUO
FSS IM/DLD/lsa/
ORIG: Robert N. Dahlgren
UNIT: C/WH/III
EXT : 3997
DATE: 14 Dec '58

TO : MEXICO CITY, HAVANA

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: *H 5*

INFO: s/c 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

PRECEDENCE
DEFERRED DEC 14 19 21:59
ROUTINE REC'D CABLE SECT.
INITIALS
PRIORITY
INITIALS
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE
INITIALS
OUT 54018

TO MEXI INFO HAVA CITE DIR O4579

ADVISE REASON NOEMYER TRAVEL CUBA, LENGTH STAY AND WHERE CAN BE CONTACTED.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of R. N. DAHLGREN] R. N. DAHLGREN
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
![signature of Roemyer]
301-16 8881 Roemyer
File: 201
Personal
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

418 BD/LR/LRAM

DATE: 16 DECEMBER 1958

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: C/WH 2

INFO: * COP, S/C 2

ROUTING

DEC 11 01 52:58
REC'D CABLE SECT.

ROUTINE

IN 36388

TO MEXI INFO DIR CITE HAVA Ø666

RE: HAVA 482 (IN 41535)
DIR 46487 (OUT 71918)

FYI: HAROLD B NOEMAYR AND FAMILY ARRIVED HAVA FROM MEXI 5
DEC 58 VIA CUBANA 465.

END OF MESSAGE

ICS COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WH Division
INFO

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.
HMMT-585

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
Hospitalization Benefits for Dependents of Harold R. NOEMAYR

DATE
10 December 1958

RE: 43-3 (CHECK "X" ONE)
X MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ. DESK ONLY

ACTION REQUIRED
See paragraph 2 below,

REFERENCE(S)
FR 20-1000, paragraph 2, c.

1. Harold R. NOEMAYR, a Career Agent, is incurring medical expenses from the required hospitalization and medical/surgical treatment of one of his minor dependents. He wishes to know if he is covered by insurance that includes the above type of expenses for his dependents.

2. It is noted that reference regulation mentions in general terms that Career Agents are usually entitled to the same benefits as Staff Employees. However, since the Station does not have a copy of NOEMAYR's contract, it is requested that Headquarters check his personnel file to determine if he and his dependents are all covered by some manner of hospitalization plan and, if so, what the exact terms are that this plan covers.

Willard C. CURTIS

PCK/vps
8 December 1958

Distribution
3 Hqs


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

ORIG : MARVIN JENNINGS: 88
UNIT : FINANCE DIVISION 538
EXT : 1677
DATE : 7 AUGUST 1958

TO : MEXICO

FROM : DIRECTOR

CONF : FD 2

INFO : WE 4, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING

Aug 13 16 56:51
CABLE SECT

DEFERRED
PRIORITY

ROUTINE
OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

OUT61555
OUT 61565

TO : MEXICO

INFO :

CITE DIR : 36120
36120

PAY NORMAY: 328.73 FOR SUMS DUE FROM HQS THRU 12 JULY. EFFECTIVE
PERIOD ENDING 9 AUGUST, DEPOSITS OF 43.70 WILL BE MADE TO HIS BANK.

END OF MESSAGE.

![signature of releasing officer]

C/HR/SS
RELEASING OFFICER

![signature of coordinating officer]

WE/BF
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

![signature of authenticating officer]
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.
201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

SECRET

12 August 1958

NEKURANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

VIA:

Deputy Director (Plane)

SUBJECTI Commendation for Mr. Rosa L. Crosior

> ![Executive Registry ID 10-6438]

The signature of the Deputy Director on the enclosed coumendation is requested. It will be recalled that Mr. Crosier made an autstend- ing contribution to the intelligence mission of the Western Hemisphere Division in March 1958.

J. C. KING
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

1 Attachment

DD/P/WH:RReynolds:fem 12 August 1958

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 Addressee
Y - Signer
1 - WH/III

> ![scribbled number 201-168881]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

SECRET

24 July 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnal Division

VIA : FI/OPS/Projects (Miss Paxton)

SUBJECT : Harold R. HOSMAYR Amendment of Contract

Forwarded herewith are the signed original and one copy of an amendment to Subject's contract. This amendment was prepared at Headquarters and forwarded to the field for signature.

Subject is a career agent in Project LIEDGE.

R. H. Dahlgren
Chief, MI/III

WH/3/Mexico/LSulcings

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - Mexico Chrono
1 - Subject

SECRET

301-16888/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

509 SE/SE/SE/

ORIG : ROBERT N. DAHLGREN
UNIT : WH
EXT : 2207
DATE : 12 JULY 1958

TO : MEXICO CITY
FROM : DIRECTOR
CONF : WH 5
INFO : OP 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING

PRIORITY

DEFERRED X

ROUTINE
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

12 1615
CABLE SLU

CUT99445
OUT 99445

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 31306

REF: DIR 31132 (OUT 99075) *

NOEMAYR ARRIVING FLIGHT 69 AMERICAN 13 JULY.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *NOEMAYR RETURNING 12 JULY.


![signature of File: Nolmayr]

![signature of RN Dahlgren]

![signature of J.C.KING/CHIL]

![coordinating offices SECRET]

![signature of Rn Dahlgren]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

512 ERB/SW/
ORIG : J. B. FRADY
UNIT : WH/III/MEXICO
EXT : 2555
DATE : 11 JULY 1958

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF WH 5

INFO : OP 2, S/C 2

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 31132

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

JUL 11 15 522

DEFERRED X PRIORITY

ROUTINE OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

OUT 99075

NOEMAYR RETURNING 12 JULY.

END OF LASSAGE


J.C. KING, C/AND
RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

R. N. DAHLGES, C/H/I
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy Na


201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

VIA:
AIR
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO. HMM-T-494

TO: Chief, WHD DATE: 9 July 1958

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City INFO: Finance Division

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Administrative

SPECIFIC- Contract Amendment - Harold R. NOEMAYR

ACTION REQUIRED: For your files

REFERENCE : HMM-W-6481, 19 Jun 58

For referenced dispatch, we are forwarding herewith subject's contract amendment, signed as requested. We have retained a copy for our files.

![Signature of Willard C. Curtis]
WILLARD C. CURTIS

GPO/jpw

Attachment:
1 & 2 cc's contract

7 July 1958

Distribution:
5 - Chief, WHD, w/atts a/s
1 - Finance Division, w/o att

FORM NO. 51-28 A
MAR. 1949

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

301-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

SECRET

Mr. Harold R. Noemayr

Dear Mr. Noemayr:

Reference is inade to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 1 June 1957, as amended.

Effective 1 May 1958, said contract, as amended, is further amended in the following manner:

a. The first sentence of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph four (4), entitled "Allowances," is revised to read as follows:

"In addition to the above payments, you will be entitled to an equalization allowance computed in conformance with applicable Government regulations and policies. (For your information, the equalization allowance for Mexico City is presently $000.00)"

b. The following sul-paragraph is added after sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph five (5), entitled "Travel":

"(d) For you, your dependents, your personal automobile and your household effects between permanent posta of assignment."

All other terms and conditions of the contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

You will please indicate your approval by signing in the space provided below.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

BY Willard C. Curtis
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Harold R. Noemayr

WITNESS: Walter B. Marchman

APPROVED:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE 6

## *SECRET

DATE 295 ERB/SW/RFL/
Ø2 JULY 1958

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION : WH 5

INFO : COP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, F:/OPS, S/C 2

File No. 201-167881

| ROUTING |
| ------- |
| 1       |
| 2       |
| 3       |
| 4       |
| 5       |
| 6       |

Jul 2 19 00.58
REC'D CABLE SECT.

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 49957

TO OPIM DIR INFO HAVA CITE MEXI 1892

RE: DIR 29606 (OUT 95479).

NOEMAYR LEFT MEXI AMERICAN AIRLINES FLT 158 1115 HRS 2 JULY.

ARR WASH AMERICAN AIRLINES FLT 114 2345 HRS 2 JULY. PLANS STAY
DUPONT PLAZA HOTEL.

END OF MESSAGE.

C/S COMMENT: *REQUESTED HAROLD R NOEMAYR REPORT HQS IMPED FOR CONSULT PRIOR TDY CUBA TO REESTABLISH CONTACT FIDEL CASTRO.

> [Figure: Routing and Initial table]

* CLASSIFICATION ASSIGNED BY WASH SIG CEN.

SECRET

M 1389

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

094 ERB/RG
DATE '10 JUN 1958-94

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

BONFIDENTIAL

TO 'DIRECTOR

FROM 'MEXICO CITY

ACTION: FD 3

INFO • FI/OPS 2, WH 4, S/C 2, OP 2

TO DIR INFO

DTEARN


CITE MEXI 1746

HAROLD R. NOEMAYR AND DEPENDENTS ARRIVED MEXI 7 JUNE.
PLS ADVISE FIELD ALLOTMENT AND EFFECTIVE PERIOD.

END OF MESSAGE



CONFIDENTIAL

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

ORIG :
UNIT : WID
EXT : 2555
DATE : 2 JUNE 1958

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM : DIRECTOR

CONT : WH 5

INFO : OP 2, S/C 2

TO : MEXI

RE MEXI 1608 (IN 32113)*

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING

JUN 3 10:18:58
REC'D CABLE SECT.

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
PRIORITY
OPERATIONAL IMMELAATE
OUT34452

24007
24927

NOEMAYR ETA 1730 HRS 7 JUNE. WILL CALL POSTANY HOME USING TRUE FIRST
NAME. WILL CALL MARCILIAN OFFICE IF UNABLE REACH POSTANY.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *REQUESTED NOEMA'R ETA.

Travel Ordu #WH-318-58

Collet # 8-3570-83-599

Obligation ref. #734, 7 July 58

x247571

DCA/DAL AAL 15 0935-1145 6 JUN 58
DAL/MEX AAL 159 1350-1730 7 JUN 58

J. C. KING, CAPU
RELEASING OFFICER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.. Copy No.
201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

PERSONAL DOCUMENTS FROM

VOL IV of V

CROZIER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

SUBJECT

DOC. NO.8 STMSOL MFG.-11-69

DOC. DATE DATE REC'D

SUSPENSE DATE

NOTIC COMMENTS

FILE NUMBER

ROUTING DATE OUT

1. 
2. FORM NO. 779 LOCATOR AND CONTROL RECORD (13) 3
   I MAY S6
   UBE PREVIOUS EDITION

3. DATE

4. Do you contemplate dissemination of information reviewed:

to field

to another US Government Agency (if so, to whom)

The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information,
including FBI reports, must be coordinated with CI/RA and the Office
of Security.

5. Comments:

FORM 3230 DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/RA/CB
8-70

SECRET (13-21-40)

![photo of folder with text saying DIV. AFTER USE SEE ARCHIVES"] SECRET

THIS FOLDER IS NOT TO BE RELEASED OUTSIDE OF
CI/STAFF. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH THIS FOLDER
MUST NOTIFY CI/OA(5077) IMMEDIATELY IF IT IS
TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER GROUP WITHIN
CI/STAFF SO THAT IT MAY BE RECHARGED TO THE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

05/74/13

C-101080

201-33555

70324円

FORCED OF ISCROY OR OTHER COLTSINES.

A INTPL NET.

ANDAUNA/1S ATTEMPTED RE-

JU LICH CONTACT WITH APPACE VIA AS PANOUCUOUS LATTER IN 1904 AND

GENT AN S/W SCORCE CARDO. NO OT 34 CORRESPONDENCE FOLLOTED.

AN OA PAS GANEED A 1900

2. FILE INDICACES AUAUNA 19 NAS ONE SEVERAL HUNDRED EMPLOYSES

DISMISSED BY CUBANA PING PRESE FOCIONING THE TRIALS OF MASLI

AND ANTRUNT(10 APRIL 1968. THERE IS HO INDICATION COC AWARE OF ENS

CONNECTION IN ANZUNA NOT, HOWEVER, HIS ROUS WAS KNOTA TO

CONCUR SGSELFIE PROVIDE OFS AND INTEL REQUIREMENTS

PHEN INITIAL DEBATATLAN EN13CEIVED.

END ON MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

SECRET

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

DATE:

CALLE CURSOFIA DESENATION

RETURN TO

SWACK

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

FOCS 180.

CITE PALCIOR

703047

TLCOG/COSMENTS: Addressed that AUPID/A.19 arrived Spain as refugee and requested guidance re any Committments or ESCROW necount cotoblished.

C/WH/COG/OPS

CA/WH/CON

FH/1/MEXICO (E.Tsikerdanos (by phore)

E/G Bob Wood (by phone)

EUR/CUDA

RAIRES

JOHN L. HART
C/EUR

WILLIAM T. BROZ
C/MED

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICER

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REFSODUCTION PY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

C-101080

SECRET

SECRET 032232Z MAY 63 CITE JMZAVE 2293 3EOE03837
MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC AMICARUS

REF: BOOK DISPATCH 6372 (NOT SENT MEXICO)

1. REF REQUESTS CERTAIN STATIONS LOCATE CONTACTS
   AND POSSIBLE ACCESS AGENTS TO OBTAIN ASSESSMENT AMICARUS/1 (CIDEN TO MEXICO ONLY).

2. WHILE VISITING MEXICO CITY MARCH 68, AMCONCERT/1
   MET ORLANDO DE JESUS (VENTURA) REYES, CUBAN EXILE DOCTOR
   AND FORMER MEMBER 13 MARZO DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO.
   VENTURA, DP03 15 JULY 31, SANTA CRUZ DEL SUR, CAMAGUEY,
   ARRIVED MEXICO CITY 17 NOV 57, RESIDES APT 1, CALLE ZAMORA
   112, COLONIA CONDESA. VENTURA WAS CLOSE FRIEND JOSE
   ANTONIO (ECHEVERRIA) BIANCHI, CONSIDERED MARTYR BY
   DIRECTORIO, AND WAS CLOSE FRIEND AMICARUS/1 AND OTHER
   DIRECTORIO LEADERS. VENTURA ARRESTED DURING AMLASH/1 TRIAL
   AND SENTENCED TWO YEARS FOR ANTI REGIME ACTIVITIES.

3. ANCONCERT/1 BELIEVES VENTURA WILLING COOPERATE
   WITH WOFIRM BUT NOT WITH CUBAN EXILE GROUPS. IN ORDER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

PAGE 2 JMWAVE 2292 SECRET

SATISFY HQS REQUIREMENTS OSTAIN INFO DIRECTORIO LEADERS, MEXICO MAY WISH ESTABLISH DIRECT CONTACT FOR DEBRIEFING.

4. JMWAVE TRACES SHOW VENTURA ANTI COMMUNIST DOCTOR WHO PLANNED DEFECT 1964, WORKED FOR CUBAN GOVT AS MEDICAL DOCTOR, WAS IN EXILE MEXICO CITY 1958 WHERE ARRESTED FOR ANTI BATISTA ACTIVITIES AND WORKED WITH GUSTAVO (ARCOS) BERGNES IN 26TH JULY MOVT MEXICO.

SECRET

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

ALL SECRETA
PERSON/UNT NOTIFL

SECRET
(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

24
DISSEM BY
ACTION
PER
FILE AID/RET. TO
BRANCH
DESTROY S.I.G
WH/CG-8 KID COPY
INFO.
VR. WH-8 EUR-8 CF/ CE/EPS,
CI/OA FJ. FI/INT-2, CI/IC-2

SECRET 232232Z MAY 69 CITE JMWAVE 2291 3 MAY 69 03842

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMICARUS

REF: JMWAVE 2293 (CI03837)

IDENTITY: (JULIO (GARCIA) OLIVERA, CUBAN AMBASSADOR

TO NORTH VIET NAM AND MEMBER 13 MARZO DIRECTORIO.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

# Cuban Asks to Be Shot For Plot to Kill Castro

HAVANA (AP) - A former Cubelas said. "I simply fell into Cuban army major has asked a the hands of the enemy."

revolutionary tribunal to sen- "If I have to die, I will do it tence him to death because he yelling, 'Viva la revolucion, agreed to shoot Prime Minister fatherland or death, we will Fidel Castro. win.'"

"To the wall. To be executed, that is what I want," Rolando

Cubelas told the tribunal yester-
Nday

Death Asked for Three

At the opening of the trial in La Cabana prison fortress,

He and six other Cubans are prosecutor Jorge Segura asked on trial, accused of plotting to the death penalty for Cubelas, assassinate Castro with the U.S. former Maj. Ramon Guin, Jose Central Intelligence Agency and Gonzalez Gallaretta and Alberto Cuban exile leader Manuel Blanco Romariz.

Artime. He asked 30-year prison terms

"I was the victim of my for Juan Alsina Navarro, Guil- weaknesses and contradictions," lermo Cunil Alvarez and Angel Herrero Veliz.

Guin is charged with knowing about the plot, concealing it and spying for the CIA.

# Schirra Ponders Settling in Perth

Cubelas testified that Artime persuaded him to join the plot during a meeting in Madrid on Christmas Day, 1964. He said that in February, 1965, Artime gave him a high-powered tele- scope and a silencer for his rifle, and he agreed to shoot Castro from a distance of about 800 yards.

PERTH, Australia (AP)-

American astronaut Walter M. Schirra Jr. says he is seriously considering settling in Perth when be is through with outer Space.

Navy Capt. Schirra and Air Force Col. Frank Borman orbited around the capital of western Australia today, meet- ing poltical and civic leaders and other residents of the "City of Lights."

'In Hands of Enemy'

"This was a cowardly act," he said. "I fell in the hands of the enemy."

Cubelas said the meeting was arranged by a Cuban resident of Madrid and by Odon Alvarez del la Campa, a former counselor to the Cuban embassy in the Spanish capital who defected in March, 1965.

Perth is the site of a tracking station for U.S. space flights and puts on is lights when American astronauts fly over the area at night. Schirra during his six-orbit flight Oct. 3, 1962, radioed the station that he had spotted the lights during his second orbit.

About 500 persons, including Cuban and foreign newsmen, attended the session of the trial.

# The Evening Star-The Sunda

Published by THE EVENING STAR NEWSPAPER COM

MAIN OFFICES 225 Virginia Ave. S.E., Washington, D. C. 20003-Tele

The Associated Press is entkied sxdwively to the use for rep the local news printed in this newspaper as well as all A. Pi

EUROPEAN BUREAU-

London SW 7, England, 122 Old Brompton &

ASIAN BUREAU

Hong Kong, Rapatte Bay Hotel

ADVERTISING REPRESENTATION SY

BULLION MARKET NEWSPAPERS, INC.

NEW YORK, N. Y. SAN FRANCISCO, CALIP.

CHICAGO, ILL LOS ANGELES, CALIR

DETROIT, MICH.

THE LEONARD COMPANT

MIAMI BEACH, FIA

DELI

Evoning and Sunday

Monthly 2.60 R

Weekly -40

RATES BY MA

Anywhere

Evening cad Sunday

1 year --32.00 11

6 months. 16.50 6

3 months 8.50 3

1 month 2.00 1.

Entered at Post Office, Washington, D. C., Second-Class Pest


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

negotiate peace, and let war! stand aside while the people of

## Two Ex-Majors Arrested in Cuba As CIA Agents

HAVANA (AP)—Two former Cuban Army men, one of whom played a key role in Fidel Castro's rise to power, have been arrested on charges of counter-revolutionary activities for the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.

The Interior Ministry announced last night that Dr. Rolando Cubela and Ramon Guin, both former majors, had been arrested for "actions which seriously involve them in counter-revolutionary activities" with the CIA.

Cubela, a physician, has been director of Havana's Fajardo Hospital. Before the overthrow of Fulgencio Batista's regime, he was a commander of Castro's guerrilla forces in the Escambray Mountains.

After Castro took over, he became first president of the Federation of University Students at Havana University.

No information was given on Guin.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

L

C-101080

ECLANDO. CUBELAS

FILAFLL

GUIN & COLETAS, Jana FUAITOL TING

abols

-Danny the treat the counhoabe the

a penchain

(Cn its quiring) fecun

(2) the mattise,

wabra with

WAVE

SLODET

B. Cuither.de
E/or


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

U.S. C

CJ.

Sale

117. 1981. The Plate Depa
           grom an exira Mfr.

Crame

Cuiries way to be the hond

Atime

correvolutios
tion


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

SECRET 252214Z CITE JMWAVE 4286

DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF DIRECTOR 53681

1. DEBRIEFING JUAN A. ORTEGA HERRERA AND JULIAN PEREZ PARRADO AS WELL AS INTERVIEW WITH CAPTAIN OF SHIP "CHIRICANO" WHICH PICKED UP ESCAPEES ESTABLISHED BONA FIDES. LOW KEY EXPLOITATION OF ESCAPE STORIES ARRANGED THRU AMHIM FACILITIES.

2. AMLASH-1 REPORTED BY ESCAPEES TO BE WORKING AS PRISONER-MEDICAL ASSISTANT ON ISLE OF PINES. SOME AMERICANS IN PRISON BUT NAMES NOT KNOWN. NO KNOWLEDGE

AMSOUR-1. OTHER NAMES RESULTING FROM DEBRIEFING WILL BE REPORTED BY SEPARATE CABLE.

3. ESCAPEES MADE AVAILABLE TO QKFLOWAGE AND LNYUMA 25 NOVEMBER. LNYUMA HOPES TO USE EVIDENCE OBTAINED FROM PEREZ PARRADO AGAINST OSMANI NODARSE, ALLEGED CUIS AGENT RESIDENT JMWAVE. AREA.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

SECRET

INSTRUCTION SHEET

|                |                  | DATE        |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ----------- |
| SET UP FOR POA | EXPEDITE INDICES | 28 SEP 1964 |
| SET UP FOR GA  | SPECIAL INQUIRY  |             |
| USE            |                  |             |
|                | COVER NAME CHECK |             |

|                      |     | DATE   |
| -------------------- | --- | ------ |
| EXPEDITE FBI INDICES |     | 101080 |
|                      |     |        |
| AREA                 |     |        |


ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REVIEW F/ COLLATERAL INFORMATION

LEINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL INTERROGATION FROM SECURITY OFFICE DIVISION

FORGARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

| FORWARD TO SECURITY OFFICE | ATTACHMENT | REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA |
| -------------------------- | ---------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
|                            | PRO I      |                                                 |

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED REVIEW AT CI/OA FBI REPORT LCFLUTTER REPORT
(No notice to Division)

CANCEL PER CI/OA NOTICE TO DIVISION REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE, ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE
(Reason checked below, or see remarks)

REQUEST RI TRACES FILE

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES TICKLE

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

|         | NOTICE | FIRST | SECOND | FINAL |
| ------- | ------ | ----- | ------ | ----- |
| REQUEST | PRO I  |       |        |       |
|         | PRO II | OTHER |        |       |

POA EXPIRED. PLEASE SUBMIT PRO II. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

*FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRO II AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKS

Proc -

cancel tickle and retire file.

![Signature]

SIGNATURE

FORM
7-63 707 PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

OVER

(21)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

SECRET

6 August 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT : AMLASH-1 C-101080

1. Reference is made to your "Request for Information" dated 31 July 1964 concerning Subject.

2. The PRQ Part II on AMTRUNK-10 (201-142291) contains certain errors which are being struck: AMLASH-1 is not a Headquarters internal asset, nor is he running any internal group. The relationship between AMTFUNK-10 and AMLASH-1 is a personal one - they have been friends for many years. AMLASH-1 is not doing anything whatsoever at the present time inside Cuba which has anything to do with any KUBAEK operation, plan, activity; in addition, he is not furnishing any Political or Foreign Intelligence. A POA was requested on him in June of 1962 for recruitment as a possible defector. He returned to Cuba and has resumed his career as a surgeon. He is working with the cardiology department of the Manuel Fajardo Hospital.

3. Station JMWAVE is being advised of the above.

Samuel Halpern
ADC/WH/SA

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee

File < 101080
142291 thermafax copy

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO: WH/SA/IOS - Joe Houghan

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA

DATE: 31 July 1964

C NO: C-101080

SUBJECT: AMLASH/1

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

PRO I                                               REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER
PRO II                                              REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION
FIELD TRACES                                        REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA
RI TRACES                                           REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA
OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES                     REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA
RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION                   REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE
GREEN LIST                                          OTHERS (See Remarks)

NOTICE: FIRST SECUD  THERD AND FINAL.

REMARKS:

1.  Statements in the PRQ Part II for AMTRUNK-10 (201-112291) indicate that Subject is being used, although POA expired and was cancelled on 4 November 1963, as the leader of a group including AMTRUNK-10.

2.  It is requested that a Division representative discuss this case at CI/OA.

/s/ Edward P.. Broza

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

FORM 8-60 889 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 133

# SECRET

## INSTRUCTION SHEET

|                |                  |                   |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
| SET UP FOR FOA | EXPEDITE INDICES | DATE              |
| SET UP FOR DA  | SPECIAL INQUIRY  | COVERT NAME CHECK |
| USE            | AREA             | DATE              |
|                |                  |                   |

CASE NO. 201-

101080

31 JUL 1964

EXPEDITE FBI
INDICES

REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER PEVIE

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REINSTATE POA FOR

REVIEW FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

FORWARD DIVISION

SECURITY OFFICE

FORWARD TO

RESULTS TECHNICAL
SECURITY OFFICE
DIVISION

REVJE SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED
(No notice to Division)

REVIEW AT CI/OA

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCES;
ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

FILE

LCFLETTER REPORT

CANCEL PER CI/DA
(Reason checked be

REQUEST FI TRACES

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

X TICKLE

30 Aug 64 discuss

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

NOTICE

SECSOD

FINAL

OTHER

REQUEST

X

PLEASE SUBMIT PRO 11. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT

POA EXPIRED
HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

*FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRO II AS REQUIRED UNDER CSI NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKS

WH/SA/105

1.  Statements in the PRO-II for AMTRUNK-10 (201-142291) indicate that Subject is being used,
    Although POA efperid and was cancelled on 4 Nov '63, as the leader of a group including AMTRUNK-10.

2.  It is requested that a division representatives descurce this case at CI/CA.

FORM 7-63 707

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)