# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 96-5367593 SENSIND:

ACTION: EA/J (223) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC, DC/EA, EADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, PAS, FILE, CIC/EA, EA/ΧΟ (3/W)

96 5367593 ASP PAGE 001 IN 5367593
TOR: 120802Z SEP 96 TOKY 30260

SECRET 1207582 SEP 96 STAFF

CITE TOKYO 30260

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT AC/EA/J INFO D/PAS, DC/EA, C/EA/CI

SLUGS: WNINTEL

*SUBJECT: NEWS STORY ON LEE HARVEY OSWALD AND CIA IN JAPAN

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE PROVIDE NAME AND PHONE NUMBER OF *PROJECT OFFICE RESPONSIBLE FOR DECLASSIFICATION OF<KENNEDY> *<ASSASSINATION>PAPERS.

2. EMBASSY PRESS OFFICER/ADVISED COS AT RECEPTION LAST NIGHT THAT LOCAL UPI REPORTER IS ABOUT TO FILE A STORY BASED ON LOCAL RESEARCH AND AN INTERVIEW WITH A RETIRED MARINE OFFICER WHO CLAIMED *TO BE<LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S>COMMANDER IN JAPAN THAT OSWALD WAS RECRUITED BY CIA WHILE STATIONED WITH THE MARINES IN JAPAN IN THE 1950S. UPI CORRESPONDENT OFFERED (PRESS OFFICER A CHANCE TO COMMENT. PRESS OFFICER DECLINED. COS SUGGESTED THAT MUCH, IF NOT ALL PAPERS ON OSWALD'S PERSONAL HISTORY HAVE BEEN DECLASSIFIED FOR USE BY MEDIA, *RESEARCHERS AND ASSASSINATION>BUFFS AS PART OF OVERALL<KENNEDY> *<ASSASSINATION>DECLASSIFICATION PROGRAM. (COS ALSO RECALLED THAT THE UPI REPORTERS STORY, IN SOME FORM, FALSO HAS ALREADY BEEN WRITTEN. HENCE, AS A LONG SHOT AT KEEPING A CIA-RELATED STORY FROM SURFACING CIN JAPAN, THEREBY PROMPTING JAPANESE JOURNALISTS TO PURSUE THE SAME INFORMATION, COS>SUGGESTED TO PRESS OFFICER THAT (SHE) PASS NUMBER OF THE HISTORICAL OFFICE ATCHEADQUARTERS RESPONSIBLE FOR DEALING WITH PUBLIC QUERIES TO THE REPORTER, ADVISING THAT HIS SCOOP MAY, IN FACT, BE OLD NEWS.

3. WOULD THEREFORE APPRECIATE NAME AND/OR NUMBER THAT UPI REPORTER COULD CALL AT HEADQUARTERS SHISTORICAL OFFICE RESPONSIBLE FOR *<JFK ASSASSINATION>INQUIRY DECLASSIFICATION. IF THERE IS ANOTHER OFFICE AT NATIONAL ARCHIVES OR ELSEWHERE THAT HAS RESPONSIBILITY FOR SUCH INQUIRIES, THAT WOULD BE FINE AS WELL. THANKS FOR THE HELP.

4. CL REASON 1.5(C); DECL X1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO 96-5367593 PAGE: 2

SENSIND SECRET

S. FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)