2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MAY 30, '95 11:44AM

P.1

facsimile
TRANSMITTAL

to: John Pereira, Director, Historical Review Group, CIA
fax #: (703) 351-2114
from: David Harwell, Executive Director, ARRB
date: 5/30/95
pages: 8, including cover sheet.

CYA-2

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW Room 208
Washington, DC 20530

(202) 724-0088
Fax: (202) 724-0457


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW ◼ 2nd Floor ◼ Washington, DC 20530

May 30, 1995

Mr. John Pereira
Director
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

RE: ARRB Additional Information Request No.CIA-2

Dear John:

As you know, the ARRB Board at its May 19, 1995 meeting concluded that it required additional specific information before it could review the CIA records under discussion at this meeting. Based upon my discussions with you and with Barry Harrelson, I understand that the Historical Review Group can respond only to questions that draw upon information already on hand, and that any questions requiring further research will go to the components for a response.

Since I understand from you and Barry that it will be faster if we divide those of our questions directed to the Historical Review Group from those directed to the components, we are submitting two separate lists for CIA's response. List 1, which we are submitting to the Historical Review Group, asks basic questions about documents, including the Mexico chronology, which HRG has not previously addressed. List 2 asks for the answers to questions about names, pseudonyms, and crypts that go beyond what we understand is HRG's current available information.

Since the ARRB Board will consider these documents at its June 7, 1995 meeting, we hope to have this information by then. Thank you for your continued cooperation, and we look forward to your response. Please do not hesitate to contact me or Jeremy Gunn for any clarification regarding these requests.

Sincerely yours,

![signature of David G. Marwell]

David G. Marwell
Executive Director


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

ARRB Request for the Central Intelligence Agency, May 30, 1995

1.  Please confirm the information we have for the following portions of file numbers, and provide information for those portions still in question:

19-9-8 Cuba Country Indicator-?-?
19-4-128 Cuba-Communist Infiltration of Government-2
65-6-38/4 Spain Country Indicator-?-?
33-126-22/4 Greece Country Indicator-2-Restricted File, Still Active
50-2-4-1 Mexico Country Indicator, Liaison File-2 (Communist Activities?)

2.  Please tell us which of the following crypts are still in use. (We understand that most of these pertain to surveillance operations in Mexico City):

LICALLA
LIEMBRACE
LIENVOY
LIERODE
LITEMPO (or LITEMPOS)
LCIMPROVE
REDWOOD
LIMITED
LILYRIC
LIFEAT
LIFIRE
MKCHARITY

3.  Please confirm the information we have for the following crypts and provide additional information, including whether these crypts are still in use. For agent crypts, please give us some background for the individuals in question (janitor or president of country?), and tell us where these individuals are now, as well as what they are doing. (It is possible that providing the Board with the 201 file for that individual would be helpful).

LIELEGANT Liaison Official
LITENSOR High Mexican Official (Source)
LIERGO Liaison Official
LIRING-3 Mexican Agent With Access to Cuban Target (cultural type)
LUENNET-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LINILE-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LITEASE-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

ARRB request, page 2

SECRET

LISTEED-2 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LINEB-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LICRAVE-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LICUFF-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LICANNY-1 Access Agent Operating Against Soviet Target in Mexico
LIMERICK ?
LIENTRAP Photo Operation Against Prominent Mexican Communist
LIFEUD-22 Mexican Operating Photo Surveillance Basehouse (LIERODE) Against
Cuban Target
AMKIRK-1 Cuban Access Agent (friend of LICOOKY-1)
AMROD Sensitive Cuban Operation in Mexico City-(Explain?)
ERTHYROID-3 Nicarguan Liaison Official

4. Please confirm the information we have on the following individuals and provide additional
   information, including what these individuals were doing for CIA in 1963-64, as well as what
   they are doing now and where they are presently located:

Munro, George Frederick (Jeremy K. Benadum)
NOC; former FBI agent in Mexico
Manell, Herbert (Gerald F. Gestetner)
Transcriber/translator (Spanish), Mexico City station
Manell, Barbara (Lucy A. Dillinger)
Transcriber/translator (Spanish), Mexico City station
Tarasoff, Boris (Douglas J. Feinglass)
Transcriber/translator (Russian), Mexico City station
Shaw, Robert T. (Lawrence F. Barker)
Officer, Mexico City station
White, Allen P. (Robert Easby)
DCOS, Mexico City Station
Bustos, Charlotte (alias Elsie Scalletti)
WH-3/Mexico
Horton, John (Roger Kingman)
Diamond, Robert
Deceased
Langan, Joseph
Staffer in WH/Sec officer
Langdon, Joseph
Office of Security staffer

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

13-00000

MAY 30-'95 11:49AM

P.5

# SECRET

ARRB request, page 3

Zambernardi, Robert (Gregory D. Parmuth)
Liaison between photo baschouses and station, Mexico City?

Whitten, John (alias John Scelso)
C/WH-3
Retired under cover to Vienna, Austria?

Herbert, Radford W. (TN)
Gallery, L.N. (TN)
C/WH/REPTS

(Scantling, Oliver G.)
American Support Asset in Mexico
True name?

(Kasnicka, Lewis F.)
Staff Commo. Also used in photo support operations
True name?

(Gerende, Raymond H.)
Mexican support asset
True name?

(Mulford, ______)
Staff Photo Techician
True name?

Flick, Charles F. (Arnold F. Archart)
Support Staffer

(Urquhart, Thomas G.)
True name?

(Rowton, Wallace B.)
Case Officer for LIRING-3
True name?

King, Joseph C. (Oliver G. Galbond)
C/WH
Deceased?

Wolf, Wesley F. (Orville R. Horsfall)
Technical officer in Mexico

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

ARRB Request for the Historical Review Group, Central Intelligence Agency, May 30, 1995

Please provide us with information on the following:

PACYY
MRID
MNTY
HMYA
EGGA

Peter K. Woodhead
Rescigno
Jentons
Salvador Diaz Verson
Joaquin Nassim
Robert Florstedt (CIA)
Burnell Goodrich
Tessarolo
Wilfred Clower
Tichborn
Stan Watson
Jonathan Weening
Wallace B. Rowton
Richard Welch (COS Georgetown)
Lund
Poscher

AMPALM-26
AMPALM-4
LIHUFF-1
DØTDORIC TPRANSACK
AMRAZOR-1
AMBUCKLE-1
ODEARL
ZRMETAL
LITEMPO-8
KUDESK
PBPRIME

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

ARRB request, page 2

LITEMPO-4
HBFINCH
LITEMPO-1
LIOVAL-1
KUJUMP
AMTHUG-1
LIKAYAK-2
LIMUD
ASCHAM
LICOWL-1
LIMESA
LIONION
PBSWING
LITAINT-2
LICHANT-1
WOFACT
WOVIEW
LIRAMA
LICOMET-2
LNERGO
LNPURE
LIRING-3
LICOAXES
LITEMPO-12
LIQUIFIER
LIROBBIN-1
LNGOLD
WOFIRM
AMOT-2
LITAMIL-7
LITAMIL-9
ERTHYROID-1
KMULCER
ZRERASE
KUCLUB
AEGENERATE
LICASA-1
LITAINTS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

13-00000 MAY 30.95 11:51AM P.8

SECRET

ARRB request, page 3

NIEXIT-3
NIETO
STGANG
UNSTAR





SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Page 6

SECRET

ARRB Request for the Historical Review Group, Central
Intelligence Agency, May 30, 1995

SYMBOLS

PACY Panama City
MRID Merida Base, Mexico
MNTY Monterrey Base, Mexico
HMYA Monterrey Base dispatch symbol
EGGA Hamburg, Germany dispatch symbol

IDENTITIES

1. Calvin E. Davis (T)
2. Donald Velasquez (T)
3. J. Deering Danielson (deceased)
4. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)
5. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)
6. Walter G. MARCHMAN (P)
7. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)
8. Judd Allen Austin (T); alias Raphael G. Leminger (T)
   (201-0220680)
9. Joseph G. Sancho (T)
10. (See Secret bio summary attached)
11. DCOS/Mexico City under Scott (deceased)
12. Cynthia J. Hausman (T)
13. Staffer who was case officer for LIRING/3
14. Deceased; assassinated in Athens, Greece (1976)
15. Jack Kaufman (T)
16. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)

CRYPTONYMS

17. Media Asset
18. Sensitive media Asset
19. See attached secret file summary
20. Covert Action/International Federation of Journalists
21. Cuban Asset
22. Cuban Asset
23. Department of Defense (DOD)
24. Washington, D.C.
25. Mexican liaison official
26. CI Staff
27. United States

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

Pages 7 and 8

28. Mexican (liaison) officer

29. U.S. Embassy

30. Mexican (liaison) officer

31. Mexican asset

32. Was Office of Operations (00); later Domestic Contact
    Service (DCS)

33. Fidel Castro

34. Mexican asset

35. Postal Intercept Program

36. Allen W. Dulles

37. Double agent against Soviet target in Mexico City

38. Technical surveillance operation against Soviet Embassy
    in Mexico City

39. Fixed photo coverage of Cuban Embassy (unilateral
    operation)

40. U.S. Embassy/Consulate/Consul General

41. Mexican asset

42. Manuel Calvillo (Mexican Social Security Institute
    Consultant)

43. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

44. Covert Action Staff

45. Mexican asset

46. Mexican asset

47. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)

48. U.S. Embassy/Consulate/Consul General

49. (Carlos Juredo Delmar) (access agent against Cuban
    target)

50. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)

51. Mexican (liaison officer

52. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)

53. Asset

54. Department of State (DOS)

55. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA)

56. Cuban support asset

57. (Consuelo Esperon) Cuban Embassy penetration

58. Luis Alberue-Suoto) agents

59. Nicaraguan Security Service Officer

60. Italy/Italian

61. (REQUIRES RESEARCH)

62. Office of Communications (OC)

63. Access agent to Soviet target

64. Mexican asset

65. Surveillance support group.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

66. Foreign embassy FI assets;
67. both used contacts of (J. Deering Danielson)
68. ChiCom audio operation
69. Contact of (J. Deering Danielson; foreign embassy FI asset.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW 2nd Floor Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 7, 1996

HAND DELIVERY

Mr. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to memorialize our conversation of October 1 regarding the status of Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the CIA.

We discussed the following formal requests:

CIA-1 (Organization materials)

CIA has made records available to the Review Board. The Review Board staff will continue its review and make recommendations to the Board and will request further information, if necessary, from CIA. CIA needs to do nothing further at this time.

CIA-2-5 Complete.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA originally informed the Review Board staff that these materials could be made available by December, 1995. CIA now agrees to make the records available (or to have a response) by the first of November, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Mexico City. CIA has shown the Mexico City history to Gunn. CIA will compile the portion of the history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 7, 1996
Page 2

which will be processed as an assassination record. Gunn will then determine whether there are any additional portions of the history that should be added to the Blakey version. CIA will compile the "Blakey version" as soon as possible and Gunn will promptly thereafter review the documents.

Index. CIA has made an index available to Review Board staff and the staff has identified certain histories that may be appropriate for review. CIA will make available those histories that are of obvious relevance, and will raise with Review Board staff any questions regarding the requests where the basis for the request is unclear. CIA will begin to make histories available on a rolling basis. Review Board has agreed to review histories promptly once they are made available. Although it was not discussed at our meeting, we would very much appreciate it if you would, within the next two weeks, identify which histories you are prepared to make available and those that CIA believes should be subject to further discussions.

Cram's multi-volume counterintelligence history. Although Cram's history was not specifically discussed at our meeting, the Review Board staff understands that the history has been located and the Review Board staff awaits its being made available.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA will provide a report to the Review Board staff within two weeks.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

The Review Board staff provided CIA with a list of certain publications as they appear in an LBJ Library finding aid. CIA will report back on recommended action to the Review Board promptly.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has compiled information responsive to the request. CIA will make records available within two weeks.

CIA-11 (Duran's original statement)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

13-00000

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 7, 1996
Page 3

CIA has been unable to identify to date Duran's original statement. CIA will make some further attempts to locate it.

CIA-12 (JMWAVE materials)

CIA will begin to make materials available on a rolling basis.

With respect to the informal requests, it is our understanding that:

CIA is inquiring into matters related to Spas Raikin. The Review Board staff will discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

CIA is locating a cable number IN 24738 (7 July 62), which is identified in record number 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630 (Box 34, F 22), p. 2.

CIA is inquiring into matters related to Marilyn D. Murrett. The Review Board staff will discuss issues with CIA once the pending research is completed.

CIA is continuing to search for HTLINGUAL records, particularly those identified in Church Committee index that was provided to CIA by Review Board staff. CIA is prepared to provide oral briefing on HTLINGUAL.

Please let me know if you have any supplements or corrections. We would very much like to ensure that these matters are handled expeditiously.

As always, thanks for your cooperation and assistance.

Sincerely,

T. Jeremy Gunh
General Counsel and Associate Director for Research


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)