# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## CII 2
### 000
## EE COELE GOVERNMENT BOOK HA MEXICAN PHASE OF THE REVOLU

FLD INDEX ONLY

MMMA 656

13 December 1958 is bares,

Orfeo

Omer and manager (NOSSITE, E.I. GIESTANDRIGYEL, Albert)

To be used to report on activities of Danes, receiving monies & traveling. Gar no IDs furnished with names and numbers of the above temperament, as a political action case. Setup with Danish and numbers.

Fd granted 6 June 60 E CHILL

*RACOUID, Ronald (//1011…)

> [Figure: Image of table]

Station contacted Engl. former transporter NL 21 Avenue Road. Katz stated zits providing Ontario transport in Amd. Any spying activity of mutual Fidel Carter, stash Katz anger Fidel send up report sailing parties. send telegram L.a. Collins fried rising wrath. irritation activities also; money. Any.

Adsense of opinion

G-2430

U1, PTT772, 1 Des. 59. Bife to file, W. Lenz

Pd granted 4 June 1960. Field info traced 58208, 1 June 1960.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOC. SYMROL & NO.
DATE OF DOC.
FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY

Memo Draft 13 Sept (7?)

DOC. SUBJECT
Results of Our Survey of Cuban Assets

SOURCE CRYPTONYM
SOURCE INFORMATION

1. COS Lima did well to raise the question as to what will happen, *vis a vis* our operational security, when the Cubans achieve diplomatic recognition in the various Latin American countries where this is gradually occuring. The responses from the Branches indicate that we do have a considerable amount of operational activity and equity that revolve around our Cuban assets and that we would do well to begin a gradual cut-back in our use of Cubans, given the targetting that we presume will be made on then as the Cuban CI effort begins in the various countries.

2. However, the solution to our problem should be a gradual one and keyed initially to where the official Cuban presence is. and then to those countries where it is coming. Therefore we start with Peru.

b. GICITRON-4, who has been Treasurer of the 26th July movement in the period 1957-58 provides the cover for LITHGOE.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or 201 File No. In Which This Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First. Middle)
GICITRON-4

FORM 867 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

201-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

15 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/FI

SUBJECT : GICITRON-4

a. GICITRON-4

b. Subject is used by the Bogota Station to provide cover, status and funds for an operation handled by Errol R. LITHGOE, also a Cuban, who is nominally Subject's partner in the business enterprise.

c. Cuban

d. Legitimate businessman who was formerly in Mexico and now manages a Mexican business firm in Bogota.

e. Resident alien of Colombia.

f. Subject has received no training in clandestine operations, though he was involved in several clandestine Cuban activities while treasurer of the 26th of July Movement during 1957-53.

g. Since Subject provides cover for LITHGOE, he is not required to utilize any tradecraft. Having his own company provides for adequate cover.

h. Due to his position, Subject is probably well-known in the Cuban community, but he performs no operational tasks.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

CHIC: DON MCCADE: SV

CUIT: U/I/3/CO

ST: 5267/1034

DATE: 7 AUGUST 1972

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES: 11-1

ROUTING AND CIR INITIALS

INDEX

NO INDEX

RETURN TO

BRANCH

FILE AID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FILE. VR, 19/AN

SECRET

TO BOGOTA

CITE DIRECTOR: 73572 21 172 208135

1. HQS ATTEMPTING ASSESS THREAT GROWING PBRUMEN DIFLOMATIC PRESENCE IN HEMISPHERE CREATES FOR EKTRUST EMPLOYED FORUMEN ASSETS.

2. HQS RECORDS SHOW ERROL A. LYTHGOE, REGINALD M. DACIEK, GICITRON-4 AND GICITRON-5 IN-BOGOTA. PLS INDICATE IF STATION HAS ADDITIONAL PORUMEN ASSETS WE UNAWARE OF, OR OTHERS WHOSE FILES SHOULD BE REVIEWED.

3. DOES GICITRON-5 CONTINUE WORK FOR LYTHGOE ANY CAPACITY?

4. FILE 17-120-21. EX-2, APDIR, UN-SISM.

END OF MESSAGE

HQS COMMENT: BASED ON MEMORANDUM, "SURVEY OF CUBAN EXILE ASSETS," DATED 25 JULY 1972, C/UH/FI.

C/UH/FI

CLASSIFIED BY GRII

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

APPROVAL OF DIRECTOR

![signature of approver]

GARDNER R. HATHAWAY
C/UH/3

![signature of releasing officer]

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

REFERENCE: HLBA-12320, 10 November 1970

Operational Approval was granted on 8 February 1971 for the use of GICITRON-4 as requested in Reference.

Ernest A. PUKALA

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - COS/Bogota

> [Figure: Stamp that reads "CS COPY"]

|                                      |                                |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| CROSS REFERENCE TO                   | DATE 17 FEB 1971               |
|                                      | typed 11 February 1971         |
| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER HLBW-6561 | HQS FILE NUMBER 201-267298     |
| CLASSIFICATION SECRET                | ORIGINATING                    |
| OFFICE WH/3/C                        | TYPIST BMerrell/blb            |
| COORDINATING                         | TYPIST (11 FEB 71)             |
| OFFICE SYMBOL C/WH/3/C               | OFFICER'S NAME Calvin M. Smyth |
| RELEASING                            |                                |
| OFFICE SYMBOL C/WH/3                 | DATE 12 Feb 71                 |
| OFFICER'S SIGNATURE                  | OFFICER'S INITIALS /Shelly     |
|                                      | Alfonso Spera                  |

DISPATCH

1 - RID

1 - WH/3/C (Chrono)

> [Figure: Illegible handwritten annotations]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

No. 201-267298

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/C - P. Kaylor

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of GICITRON/4,
for the purpose specified in your request dated as follows:

As outlined in Section VI (4) of Part II (undated).

> Field Notified
> 11 Feb 71

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-P 10-5.

/S/ John E. Howard

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 8 February 1971 lc

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

2 February 1971

ATTENTION : Mr. Lally

SUBJECT : GICITRON-4 (201-267258)

REFERENCE : Form 889, dated 19 January 1971

The information on GICITRON-4 contained in DBF-9745, 16 September 1958, was located and reviewed. The information is considered non-derogatory by this Deak. It duplicated information already in Subject's 201.

Pattie S. Kaylor
WH/3/Colombia..

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - 201 File
1 - 1.1 Chrono

PSKaylor:WH/3/C:blb (2 February 1971)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

DATE
1 February 1971 1c

TO:
C/WH/3/C - P. Kaylor

FROM: CHIEF; CI/CA
/87 John E. Howard

C NO.
201-267288

SUBJECT:
GICITRON/4

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR ARPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FLANISH THIS OFFICE THE INF COMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIER INFORMETICO AS INDICATED.

|                                     |                                              |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| PRO I                               | REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOS51EP                    |
| PRO 11                              | REVIED OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION     |
| FIELD TRACES                        | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF REPORT AT CI/O        |
| RI TRACES                           | REVIER OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMD AT CIDA |
| OPERATICHEL AND DIVISION TRACES     | REVIEW OF FRI REPORT AT CIDA                 |
| RESULTS CO TECHNICAL INTERROGATION: | REVIES OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                 |
| GREEN LIST                          | **XX** OTHERS (Ser Remarks)                  |

NOTICE:
FIRST SECOND **XX** THIRD AND FINAL

REMARKS:
Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.
Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is derogatory or non-derogatory.

Answered on 1 Feb 71.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

DATE:
19 January 1971 lc

TO:
C/WH/3/Col. P. Kaylor

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA

/S7 John E.. Howará

201-267298

SUBJECT:..
GICITRON/4

IN CADER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REGLESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATICS CHECKED. BELOW.OR REVIES INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

REVIEW OF STAFF'S DOSSIER.

REVIEW OF STAFF'S COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/OA

REVIEW OF SEC. FF: CONCURRENCE HEMO AT CIDA

REVIEW OF FBI FEPORT AT CI/DA

REVLER OF ATTACHED REFERENCE

PRO I

PRO II

FIELD TRACES

RI TRACES

OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION

CAEEN LIST

NOTICE: FIRST [x] SECOND TOARD AND FINAL XX OTHERS (See Remarks)

REMARKS:
Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA
Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is
derogatory or non-derogatory.

*Noi Considins de. -rog.*

*DBF 9745, 16 Sep-58, 100-2-18.*

*Located in Llerena's 201-215431.*

FORM 889 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

188 JAN1 71
SECRET
(when filled In)

DT-6

VID CONTROL NO. (Filled in by BID)
DOCUMENT SERVICE REQUEST

L.
DATE OF REQUEST

KAYLOR PATTI
GG-196
BRANCH
ROOM NO.
PHONE NO.
WH/3/CO
382627
EXT. 5269
TUBE BS4
12 Jan 1971
TO:
DATE
INITIALS
INSTRUCTIONS
RCD.
FED.
1 RID/FILES
DT-6
2 REQUESTER
1. Use this form to request files and/or documents
   from RID FILES. (Not to be used in lieu of Form
   362.)
2. Include badge number and tube station.
   block if gumed label has not been initialed
3. Indicate type of charge:
   Temporary
   Permanent
4. Indicate source of reference:
   Document reference from RID/Index.
   Document reference from source other
   than PID Index.
   3 RID/FILES
   SUBJECT
   LLEFENA Rodriguez, Rafael Mario

HO FILE NUMBER
DOCUMENT SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DOCUMENT DATE
100-2-18
FBI report
DBF-9745
21 August 1958
16/9/58
NOT FOUND IN RIDFILES
If Further Search Desired
Call 47672
Called 14 Jan 1971

FORM 1870
11-64
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIS0s
SECRET
(38)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

DATE

18 December 1970 1c

TO:

C/WH/3/Col - P. Kaylor

C NO-

201-267298

FROM: CRIEF, CI/OA

SUBJECT:

/S/ John E. Howard

GICITRON/4

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|                                    |                                                |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| PRO I                              | REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER                      |
| PRO 11                             | REVIE OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION        |
| FIELD TRACES                       | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/OA        |
| RI TRACES                          | REVIEW OF SEC.. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    | REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA                  |
| RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION | REVICE OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                   |
| GREEN LIST                         | XX OTHERS (See Remarks)                        |

NOTICE:

FIRST SECOND THIRD and FINAL

REMARKS:

Please locate and review FBI data re Rafael Mario LLERENA Rodriguez, sent to this Agency on 8-21-58, p. 1.

Please forward your analysis as to whether this information is derogatory or non-derogatory.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

FROM: Acting Chief of Station, Bogota KNP

SUBJECT: GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

ACTION: Process for OA

REF : HLBS-2641, 28 October 1970

Forwarded herewith are three copies of Subject's updated PRQ Part II as requested in Reference.

Orrin K. BANASIAK

DISTRIBUTION:

3-Chief, WHD w/att h/w

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HLBA-12320

DATE: 10 November 1970

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

NOS FILE NUMBER: 201-267298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART II - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

1.  This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in- forsation. It is not to be shown to the subject....
2.  Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval weless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ parte 1 and 11. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap- plicable provisions of FR 10-215. paragraphs 60. 8. 126 and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or con- plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215.
3.  Three completed copies of PRQ part I (including copy sn subject's handoriting, if possible) and two (2) con- pleted copies of this form aver be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.
4.  Dato acquired later oust be sent to headquarters in PRQ-forest in two (2) copies.
5.  Pill in all items, if information obtainable. If ites not applicable write "NA." Il additional space required for ites, ase reverse side of page keyed to appropriate stem sumber.

1. CRYPTONYM 2. PSEUDONYM

SECTION I
GICITRON-4 (Originally LITAMIL-1)
CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE HOD, SHEN, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOW SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR SEVELOPED. First contacted
   by Mexico Station CO Clyde SHRYOCK (ps) on 21 Oct 59 (MEXI-4554).
   SHRYOCK visited Subject's business office and presented self as a "frend"
   of Gustavo ARCOS Bergnes, who at that time was Cuban Ambassador in Brussels,
   Belgium and a former contact of SHRYOCK while ARCOS was in Mexico prior to
1959. Purpose of meeting was to assess Subject's attitude towards the
      Castro regime. Subject was subsequently utilized by Mexico City Station
      to assist in coordinating anti-Castro activities.
      Bogota Station contact with Subject established in 1970 through Station
      Contract Agent under non-official cover, Errol R. LYTHGOE. GICITRON-4 επα
      LYTHGOE are long-time friends and preformed operational tasks for JKLANCE
      when both werer Mexico City assets.

2. INDICATE PHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR
   HANDLING. IF SO. INDICATE TO WHOM.

Subject could be turned over to any Spanish speaking Case Officer.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS BHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR HOM HE KNOWS OR MAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY MAVE
   BEEN KNOWN-

None.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

SECTION 11 MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as "anti-communist.")

Subject became disillusioned with the Castro regime early in 1959 because of the communist infiltration in the Cuban revolution. Subject is strongly anti-communist and anti-Castro and thus willing to lend his services to combat these regimes.

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)

Except/long-time relations between Subject and Errol R. LYTHGOE for
No actual control exists over Subject.

SECTION 111 COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

NA

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

NA

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (Is working).

Subject presumably knows he is cooperating with JKLANCE

SECTION IV INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

Subject is not known to have worked for any intelligence service.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

None.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

None. However, Subject was involved in several Cuban clandestine movements while treasurer of the 26th of July Movement during 1957-58.

SECTION V COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN POWER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

None.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

SECTION VI OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE. INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFORMATION HE PROVIDED.

In 1960 Subject was utilized by the Mexico City Station to assist in the coordination of anti-Castro activities as part of the XR AMWAIL operation. Subject was rated a reliable source by the Mexico City Station.

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

NA

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.

NA

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR EL TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject is used by the Bogota Station to provide cover for status and funds for an operation handled by Errol R. Lythgoe who is Subject's nominal partner in the enterprise.

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

NA

SECTION VII PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL OF ANOTHER AGENCY OF THIS GOVERNMENT:

NA

SECTION VIII AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION. IF ANY: AGENCY PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

Subject is an unpaid field agent of JKLANCE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

SECTION IX

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

1. INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Subject has been in Latin America for a number of years during which time he has numerous contacts and friends.

SECTION X

COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT: IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Subject is not paid/salary by the Station.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)

None

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

Mexico City Station files have been checked re Subject.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

None.

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP- PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

Operational Approval

4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

6 June 1960

5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

Subject is an exile Cuban "businessman" with a *strong* character who is highly respected in the Bogota business community. Subject is an independent thinker and not easily manipulated.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT. In 1960 Mexico Station CO Clyde K. "SHRYOCK" and Subject met several times in his business office. While at the office a Cuban representative, Ricardo VIDAL Domingues, saw SHRYOCK and on 2 occasions talked with the CO. At the time Subject felt VIDAL would not talk about these contacts to Cuban officials. This occurred ten years ago in Mexico and the Bogota Station does not believe this incident will SECTION XII adversely effect the SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS present operational use of Subj

3-USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.

Subject not known to have any overt vices.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

## SECTION XIII
AVOCATICAL INTERESTS

1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTERESTS IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC.

Boxing enthusiast

## SECTION XIV
GENERAL

1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

Subject could pass as a native of any Latin American country.

2. INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRC PARTS I AND II HAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

Information obtained through LIFEAT, name checks of Mexico City and Bogota Station files, Mexican Government files, Dun and Bradstreet, and Headquarters.

3. IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN.
   (Also see para. 43b, supra)

NA

## SECTION XV
EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

1. GIVE FULL DETAILS (IVE. RECOGNITION SIGNALS. S/W) WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE; WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL MAKING CONTACT USE?

Not applicable for the circumstances in which he is being used. Should there be a break between GICITRON-4 and LYTHGOE and this or another Station want to meet with him to assess him for other operational activities in the future it would only be necessary to mention his friendship with SHRYOCK and his activities in conjunction with LYTHGOE.

## SECTION XVI
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS


DATE
SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

![Signature]

SECRET
201-267298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

# PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,

WE/3/Col - B. Merrell

| NUMBER                            |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- |
| 201-267298                        |     |
| SUBJECT                           |     |
| GICITROE/4                        |     |
| REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated |     |
| 28 October 1970                   | ms8 |

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a terporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

For limited use as requested in your memo of 28 October 1970, the POA is reinstated until 30 January 1971.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

/S/ John E. Howard

| APPROVAL                                     | DATE            |
| -------------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION | 30 October 1970 |

FORM 125 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

28 October 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. Lally

SUBJECT : GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

1. We have received your memorandum of 22 October 1970 informing us that GICITRON-4's file has been closed. However, from Bogota Station correspondenco se know that GICITRON-4 is still of operational interest and there is a strong probability that the missing PRC Part II has been delayed by the recent restriction on pouching material to and from the field.

2. It is requested that the file on GICITRON-4 be reopened and his POA be extended for an additional 30 days to allow time for the FRQ Part II to arrive or to be prepared if necd be.

Burdell Merrell
WH/3/Colombis

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - 1.1 File
X - 201 File

WH/3/C: EMerrell:blb (28 October 1970)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Acting Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4 (201-267298)

ACTION: Forward PRQ Part II

REFERENCE: HLBS-2626, 15 September 1970

1.  We have been notified that the POA for GICITRON-4 was cancelled on 22 October 1970 because we failed to provide a *PRQ Part II* showing the details of our present relations with him. He made an attempt to complete this Part II here at the desk, but found that there were too many items of information that we do not have.

2.  We have requested that GICITRON-4's POA be extended for an additional 30 days to allow time to provide the Part II. We indicated that perhaps the document has been delayed by the recent pouch restrictions.

3.  We would appreciate the receipt of the PRQ Part II within the next 30 days. If it has crossed this dispatch in the mail, please disregard this notice.

Ernest A. PUKALA

DISTRIBUTION:
2-ACOS/Bogota




HLBS-2641

*SECRET*

30 OCT 1970
typed 28 October 1970

201-267298

WH/3/C BMerrel (28 October 1970) 1034R

C/WH/3/C 280570 Calvin M. Smyth

C/WH/3 28 Cct 70 Alfonso Spera

1 - RI (F201)
1 - Chrono

DISPATCH



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

CANCELLATION TO DIVISION

DATE 22 October 1970 lc

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/WH/3/C

ATTENTION : C. Roberson, Jr.

201- 267298

C

The file on GICITRON/4 is cancelled and closed in CI/OA for the following reason:

Failure to submit PRQ-II as required under CSI No. 10-5 or to indicate any further interest in obtaining approval for the operational use of Subject.

Prior to any future use of Subject, it will be necessary to furnish a new approval request (Form #772) to CI/QA.

/S/ John E.. Howani

CHIEF, CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 6-65 691a

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declasification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# DISPATCH

SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Bogota

INFO.

FROM: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: GICITPOR-1 (201-267298)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: Please forsard PRQ Part II.

The POA on GICITRON-4 expired on 6 September 1970.
Please submit a PRQ Part II based on the current proposed use of GICITRON-4 within 30 days.

Gracia V. TILLING

DISTRIBUTION:

2 - CO3/Bogota

DISPATCH SYMBOL ARD NUMBER

HLBS-2626

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE: 16 SEP 1970

15 September

HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-267298

ORIGINATING

OFFICER: -

TYPIST: n

OFFICE SYMBOL: W

DATE: Se

COORDINATING

OFFICER'S NAME:

EXT: 34R

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WH/3

DATE: 155 70

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE:

for Alfonso Spera

* 1 - RI (F201)
* 1 - Chrono

![photo of dispatch logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

|                                       |                          |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| TO:                                   | DATE 7 September 1970 JR |
| WH/3/C C. Roberson, Jr.               | C NO. 201-267298         |
| FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA /S/ John E. Howard | SUBJECT: GICITRON/4      |

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE. IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|                                    |                                               |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| PRQ I                              | REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER                     |
| X PRQ II                           | REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFOMATION       |
| FIELD TRACES                       | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA       |
| RI TRACES                          | REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEWO AT CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    | REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA                 |
| RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION | REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                  |
| GREEN LIST                         | OTHERS (See Remarks)                          |

NOTICE:

REMARKS:

Limited POA expired 6 September 1970. Please submit PRQ II.
If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has been indicated, POA
will be automatically cancelled.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Forwarding of PRO's I and II on GICITRON-4

ACTION REQUIRED: None.

REFERENCE : KLBS-2533, 6 April 1970

Forwarded herewith as Attachment 1 for Station information and the file are two (2) copies of PEQ Part II for GICITRON-4 (formerly LITAKIL-1). Separate Cover Attachment, Number 2, to this dispatch consists of two (2) copies of PEQ Part I.

Gracia V. TILLING

ATTACHMENTS:
1. PEQ Part II, b/u
2. PRQ Part I, u/s/c

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - CCG/Bogota (w/atts 1 & 2 [two copies each], h/s & u/s/c)

20 MAY 1973

|                                    |
| ---------------------------------- |
| HLBS-2564                          |
| SECRET                             |
| 13 May 1970                        |
| 201-267298                         |
| WH/3/C PSKaylor ect (13 May 70)    |
| 9494R                              |
| C/WH/3/C 13 May 70 Calvin M. Smyth |
| C/WH/3 13 May 70 Alfonso Spera     |

1 - RI (201)

1 - Chrono

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
## PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA"
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

SECTION I

GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First)
   Manuel
   (Last)
   Magalo Lloss
3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different than Item 1-)

2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)
   "Manvelito"

5. DATE OF BIRTH
   14 December 1913
6. PLACE OF BIRTH
   Auras, Oriente

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)

8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals)

9. 
DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)

a. SEX
b. AGE
c. APPARENT AGE
d. HEIGHT
e. WEIGHT
f. COMPLEXION
g. FACE (Shape)
h. COLOR OF HAIR
i. COLOR OF EYES
j. TEETH
k. BUILD
l. POSTURE
black
brown

m. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES

n. GENERAL APPEARANCE

o. PROMINENT FEATURES

p. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES

FORM 1050 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
2-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

## SECTION 11 CITIZENSHIP

10. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP 11. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Stem 10.)

12. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Indicate as omer, tenant or sub-tenant)

13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Item 12.)

14. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAME, DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

15. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)

United States

Cuba - 1959

## SECTION 111 OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

16. PRESENT OCCUPATION 17. TITLE 18. SALARY (Per annum)

19. FINANCIAL STATUS (Earnings, bank deposite, securities and property)

(Will-fit financially)

## SECTION IV ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

20. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

21. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS, POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

Former Treasurer of the 20 of July Movement in Mexico

## SECTION V EDUCATIONAL DATA

SCHOOLS

22. 
| NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL | NAME OF COURSE | DATES ATTENDED | DEGREE RECEIVED |     |
| --------------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --- |
|                             |                | FROM           | TO              |     |
|                             |                |                |                 |     |
|                             |                |                |                 |     |
|                             |                |                |                 |     |
|                             |                |                |                 |     |


23. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

LANGUAGE

(List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence.)

|         | COMPETENCE |       |       |            |     |     |     |     |
| ------- | :--------: | ----- | ----- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|         |    READ    | WRITE | SPEAK | UNDERSTAND |     |     |     |     |
|         |    YES     | NO    | YES   | NO         | YES | NO  | YES | NO  |
| Spanish |     x      |       | x     |            | x   |     | x   |     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECTION VI SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

14. INDICATE ANY WRITING. GIVE DETAILS :CLUDING TITLES OF GODS GO ARTICLES, ALSD NAMES OF PUBLISHEDS AND PUBLICATION DATES.

25. SPECIAL SKILLS, ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ६१८.

# SECTION YII MILITARY SERVICE

| COUNTRY | DATES From | DATES To | UNIT | RANK | DUTY |
| ------- | ---------- | -------- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
|         |            |          |      |      |      |
|         |            |          |      |      |      |

*IDENTIFYING COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATSONS. HER AND WHY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS. IF BAR PRISONER.

# SECTION VIII EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDS ANY COVERWENT EMPLOYMENT.

26. 
| a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-To | b. EMPLOYER | c. ADDRESS | d. TYPE OF BORK | e. SALARY OR EARNINGS PER | f. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
|                             |             |            |                 |                           |                       |

27. 
| a. INCLUSIVE DATES (Froe-Yo | b. EMPLOYER | c. ADDRESS | d. TYPE OF FORE | P. SALARY OR EARNINGS PER | f. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
|                             |             |            |                 |                           |                       |

28. 
| a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-Toxb. | b. EMPLOYER | c. ADDRESS | d. TYPE OF SORK | SALARY OR EARNINGS PER | f. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| ------------------------------ | ----------- | ---------- | --------------- | ---------------------- | --------------------- |
|                                |             |            |                 |                        |                       |

29. 
| a. INCLUSIVE DATES (Froa-To | b. EMPLOYER | c. ADDRESS | d. TYPE OF BORK | e. SALARY OR EARNINGS PER | f. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
|                             |             |            |                 |                           |                       |

30. 
| a. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-TO | b. EMPLOYER | c. ADDRESS | d. TYPE OF GORR | e. SALARY OR EARNINGS:- PER | f. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------- |
|                             |             |            |                 |                             |                       |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECTION IX

31. CHECK ONE:

SINGLE MARRIED WIDOWED SEPARATED DIVORCED ANNULLED

32. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS. DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

NOTE OR IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS, USE SHEET FOR FORMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
HUSBAND: GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

33. NAME OF SPOUSE (First) (Middle) (Nee) (Last)

34. DATE OF MARRIAGE

35. PLACE OF MARRIAGE

36. DATE OF BIRTH

37. PLACE OF BIRTH

38. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

39. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

40. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Last residence, if deceased)

# SECTION X

| FULL NAME | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH* |
| --------- | --- | ------------- | -------------- | --------------------- |
|           | M F |               |                |                       |
|           |     |               |                |                       |
|           |     |               |                |                       |
|           |     |               |                |                       |
|           |     |               |                |                       |

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give his, or her, present address)

# SECTION XI

41. FULL NAME

42. YEAR OF BIRTH

43. PLACE OF BIRTH

44. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

45. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

46. OCCUPATION

47. PRESENT RESIDENCE

# SECTION XII

48. FULL NAME

49. YEAR OF BIRTH

50. PLACE OF BIRTH

51. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH

52. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

53. OCCUPATION

54. PRESENT RESIDENCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECTION XIII

| FULL NAME            | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |
| -------------------- | --- | ------------- | -------------- | -------------------- |
| Pablo MACHALO Lioras | M   |               |                |                      |
|                      |     |               |                |                      |
|                      |     |               |                |                      |
|                      |     |               |                |                      |
|                      |     |               |                |                      |

*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sister and give his, or her, present address)*

# SECTION XIV RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

55. NAMES OF RELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICE: INDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELD.

56. RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)

57. NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number-of-certificate-granted)

58. NAMES, ALIASES, TELECODES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE.

# SECTION XV PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

59. LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

# SECTION XVI MISCELLANEOUS

DATE

SIGNATURE

5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

PRO AO.

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

DISPATCH по.

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best oreilable information. It is not to be shown to the subject.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PG parte 1 and 11. However, in an energency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 15-215. paragraphs 60. 8. 126 mms 12d. Thereafter the wowal method to document of com plete the case must be followed as set forth in FR 10-215-
3. Three (3) completed copies of 80 part 1 (including copy is subject's hinduriting, if possible) and swe (2) com pleted copies of this fure sast be sent to headquarters es. soon as possible..
4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRO format in two (2) copies.
5. Fill in all items, il information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required for iten, use reverse side of page heyed to appropriate item number.

1. CRYPTONYM

2. PSEUDONYM

GICILON-4 (Originally LITAM!!-i)

SECTION I

CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE HOW, HEN, WHERE, WY, AND BY BHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

Cose officer, Clyde K. SHEYOCK (3) made contact with LITAMIL-1 on 21 Oct 59 (X1-4554). (ase officer went to the business office of Subject as a friend" of Gustavo ARCOS y Bergnes, who is presently Cubsa Ambassador in Brussels, Beigium, and formerly a contact of Case Officer's while ARLOS was in Mexico prior to the downfall of BATISTA. Case Officer made contact with Subject la order to "feel him out" re his attitude toward the CASTRO regime

Station, through LIFEAT, was able to evaluate Subject well before. the approach vas mace.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR MANDLING. IF SO. INDICATE TO WHOM.

Subject could be turned over to any Case Officer with a speaking knowledge of Spanish.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS SHO NAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM ME KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN KNOWN.

None

FORM
11-68
1050a OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

1

(4-20)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# SECRET

## SECTION II MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (De detailed, of possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comrtol such as "anti-Comunist.").

portee 100 وشمال Moveben. ...0, 2.v. rid the country of BATISTA & breng democracy. However, Subject as been convinced that the CASTRO regine has been infiltrated by Communists and CASTRO, his forcer intend, has done nothing about it. Cube, therefore, is motivated by botriotist.c.. to riefes of

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL, IF ANY. EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control englein.).

Case Officer has little control or no control over Subject, it is more of a cooperative arrangement wherein Subject is veiling CD 13sist PEPRIME in its cesire to get rid of CASTRO.

## SECTION 11 COVER

1. COOER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEID MEETINGS.

Meeting usually at LITANIL-1's business office, where Case Officer could pussuscitent

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

Subject, long time friend of officials of the Cuban Embassy, perely listens to his friends relate tacir problems & activities.

3. 1DCATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (Is working).

Subject knows he is cooperating with FAFRIME intelligence agency."

## SECTION IV INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION BITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT SUO CONNECTION IS KNOON OVERTLV.

Subject is not known to have sorked for any intelligence service, however, his service with the 26 of July Hovesunt during the period 1957-58, has equipped him well for intelligence wors.

2. LIST OTHER. INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) mit KNOW OF SUBJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

LITAHIL- knows that Subject is cooperating with PBPRIME.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

None. However, Subject was involved in several clandestine novements while treasurer of the 26 of July Movement during 1957-58.

## SECTION V COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREIGN PODER SUBJECT COULD BE WOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY OR PAST ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

Cuban Government.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECTION VI

SECRET

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFORMATION HE WAS FURNISHED.

During 1958 Subject was aware of Gustavo ARCOS' contact with the Case Officer and on one occasion called the Case Officer to say that ARCOS would not be able to make a meeting.

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

Subject obtains his information from officials in the Cuban Embassy & friend.

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.

Subject is aware that the information he provides is sent to Washington.

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject will assist in coordinating anti-CASTRO activities in Mexico as part of the AHWAIL operation.

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

NA

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL OF ANOTHER AGENCY OF THIS GOVERNMENT:

NA

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION, IF ANY AGENCY PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

Subject is an unpaid field agent of KUBARK.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

## SECTION IX QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Subject uses a printing plant and therefore could if necessary provide printed material clandestinely.

## SECTION X COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Subject will be given gifts at appropriate times during the year.

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)

None

## SECTION XI CE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

Station Havana and Headquarters files have been checked re Subject.

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

A financial check by Dun and Bradstreet was also run on Subject.

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL APPROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

Provisional Operational Approval

4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

S 1-Nov-1959

5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

Subj is a liberal Cuban businessman who dedicated time & money to the Cuban 26 of July Movement in Mexico during 57-58. He is of strong character & highly thought of by most members of the Cuban colony in Mexico. He is an independent thinker & cannot be pushed around

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT. The Case Officer has met LITAMIL-1 on several occasions during the past year at his business office. While at the office, Ricardo VIDAL Dominguels, Cuban Chargeas has been Case Officer at the office and on two occasions talked with Case Officer. LITAMIL-1 believes that VIDAL will not talk about these contacts to Cuban officials.

## SECTION XII SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.

Subject not known to have any obvious vices.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

SECTION XIII
AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS
1- INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC.

Boxing enthusiast

SECTION XIV
GENERAL
1- INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

Subject could pass as a native of any Latin American country.

2- INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND IT WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

Information obtained through LIFEAT, name checks Station files, Mexican Government files, Dun and Bradstreet, and Headquarters.

3- IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also see para. 63b, supra)

NA

SECTION XV
EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS
1- GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/W WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE: WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL MAKING CONTACT USED

NA

SECTION XVI
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

Subject is owner and operator of a print shop employing approximately 50 employees

DATE
SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# Chief of Station, Bogota

# Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

## GICITRON-4

References: A. HLIST 1475
B. DIRECTOR 006731

Headquarters will prepare PEQs I and II and forward copies to Station Bogota. Reference B was a summary of pertinent information from GICITRON-4's 201 file.

Anita G. POMARLEN

Distribution:
2 - CO3/Bogota





|            |
| ---------- |
| FILES 2533 |
| SECRET     |



| OFFICE | OFFICER                        | EXT. |
| ------ | ------------------------------ | ---- |
| WH/3/C | Judy Hoopes (mac 6 April 1970) | 9494 |



| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE     | OFFICER'S NAME  |
| ------------- | -------- | --------------- |
| C/WH/3/C      | 7 Apr 70 | Calvin M. Smyth |



| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE     | OFFICER'S SIGNATURE |
| ------------- | -------- | ------------------- |
| DC/WH/3       | 7 Apr 70 | Richard Conolly     |




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

TO:
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

DEFO.

FROM:
Chief of Station, Bogota

SUBJECT
GICITRON-4

ACTION ROUTINED REFERENCES:
REFERENCES: A. HLBS-2503, 16 March 1970

B. BOGOTA 3423, 20 January 1970.

1. The receipt of Reference A Provisional Operational Approval for Subject was much appreciated. We were puzzled, however, by the request for FRQ Parts I and II on GICITRON-4 since all biographic and operational data on him with the exception of References and DIRECTOR 006731 is on record only at Headquarters as far as we are aware unless Mexico City has retained their old file on him. Paragraph 3 of Reference B specifically requested that pertinent material from Subject's 201 be forwarded to Bogotá, but we have never received it.

2. Errol C. Lythgoe, despite his old friendship with Subject, has no present justifiable reason consistent with cover to question him regarding all the biographic details required for preparation of a full FRQ Part I. Nor could Lythgoe logically elicit from Subject the answers to such PAQ Part II items as "How, when, where, why and by whom Subject was first contacted or developed" by RVROCK, "List other case officers who have handled Subject or whom he knows or has known...", and the like.

3. Subject's proposed present operational use is detailed in Reference B, and Headquarters has the rest of the basic data necessary for preparation of both parts of the PRQ. It is therefore suggested that this be done at Headquarters, with copies being forwarded to Bogotá for updating.

![signature of Joseph R. Kendon]

Joseph R. Kendon

DISTRIBUTION:
Original and two - Chief, WHD.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HLBT-4475

DATE
25 March 1970

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER
201-267298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

S K C E E T

Chief of Station, Bogota

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

GICITRON-4

Reference: A. BOGOTA 3483
B. DIRECTOR 06731

1. On 6 March 1970 a POA was granted GICITRON-4 to permit him to form a corporation to provide funding cover for Errol R. LYTEGOE. No other operational use is authorize.

2. Please submit a PRQ I and II as soon as possible.

Anita G. POHARLEH

Distribution:
2 - COS/Bogota

---

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HLBS 2503

S E C R E T

DATE

17 MAR 1970

16 March 1970

RI (201-267298)

201-267298

OFFICE

ORIGINATING

WH/3/C

Judy Hoopes (mc 16 Mar 70)

9494

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

COORDINATING

C/WH/3/C 16 Mar 70

Calvin M. Smyth

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

RELEASING

C/WH/3 16 Mar Alfonso Spera

DISPATCH

FORM
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

## PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief,

WH/3/Col - C. Smyth

NUMBER
201-267298

SUBJECT
GICITROE/4

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

22 January 1970

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

To form a corporation to provide cover for Bogota Station asset Errol R. LYTHGOE business and funds on a strict need-to-know. No other operational use authorized.

> Station notified
> 13 MAR 1970

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

/S/ John B. Howard

BY

APPROVAL

DATE

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

6 March 1970

FORM 125 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

![ORDIFI exclusing foreign dissemination and contractors]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

4 March 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Counter Intelligence/Operational
Approval and Support Group

ATTENTION : Mr. Jack Lally

SUBJECT : GICITRON-4 (201-267288)

A review of the Staff D dossier on Subject reveals
no derogatory information.

Joel H. Beyer
WH/3/C

Distribution:
Orig & 1- CI/OA
- (201-267288)
  1 - Memo Chrono
  1 - Extra copy file

WH/3/C-JHBeyer:mac/x9494 (4 March 70)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:
WE/3/C - C. Roberson, Jr.

FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA
/S/ John B. Howard

Date:
24 February 1970
mss

No.
01-267293

SUBJECT:
GICITECH/4

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|                                    |                                               |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| PRO I                              | [x] REVIEW OF STAFF'S DOSSIER TO CI/CA        |
| PRO II                             | REVIEW OF STAFF'S COLLATERAL INFORMATION      |
| FIELD TRACES                       | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA       |
| RI TRACES                          | REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    | REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/CA                 |
| RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION | REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                  |
| GREEN LIST                         | OTHERS (See Remarks)                          |

NOTICE: [ ] FIRST [x] SECOND [ ] THIRD AND FINAL

REMARKS:

FORM 8-65 889 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

(20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

|                                       |                          |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| TO:                                   | DATE 9 February 1970 MBS |
| WH/3/C - C. Roberson, Jr.             | C NO. 201-257298         |
| FROM: CHIEF, CI/CA /S/ John E. Eozard | SUBJECT: GICITRON/4      |

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED...

|                                    |                                               |
| ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| PRO I                              | X REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER TO CI/CA          |
| FAQ II                             | REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION      |
| FIELD TRACES                       | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/CA       |
| RI TRACES                          | REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    | REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA                 |
| RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION | REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                  |
| GREENS LIST                        | OTHERS (See Remarks)                          |
| NOTICE:                            | FIRST SECOND THIRD AND FINAL                  |
| REMARKS:                           |                                               |

FORM 8-65 889 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET (201)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

1. SUBJECT (TYPE NAME IN ROMAN LETTERS - SURNAME IN UPPER CASE)

MACADO Llosa, Manuel 201-267291

2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLING, CTC NUMBERS, ETC.

"Manuelito"

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

12 Dec 13, Auras, Oriente, Cuba

4. CITIZENSHIP

Cuban

5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Manager for Colombia of Galas y Cia.,
Mexican-headquartered Printing firm,
Bogota, Colombia

6. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Printing

REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST
NAME CHECK

DATE 22 Jan 70

TO CHIEF, FI/D

ORIGINATING OFFICER

NAME C. Roberson, Jr.
OFFICE DESIGNATOR WH/3/C
ROOM, BUILDING 3B 2627
EXTENSION 3B 2627

13. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

□ FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

□ ADDITIONAL DATA

□ RECHECK FOR CURRENT

14. INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

☒ ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

□ OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

□ OTHER

7. PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

| ACTIVITY                                                | LOCATION                                  | DATES  |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------ |
| Owner and Manager of "Machado, S.A." (Lithograph Plant) | Tlalpan #710  Mexi City, Mexi Mexico City | Nov 59 |
| Treasurer, 26th July Movement                           |                                           | '59    |


8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

9. DESCRIPTION (HEIGHT) (WEIGHT) (EYES) (HAIR) (RACE) (OTHER)

. 
10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

Pablo MACHADO Llosa (Brother)

12. INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY. GENERAL TERMS SUCH AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN SEARCH THAT DOES NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS.)

All information

![Timestamp]10 53 AM 270

INSTRUCTIONS: INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D. SEE CSI 10-7

![Form Number]Form 501 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

TO: C. Roberson, Jr.

FROM: FI/D

FEB 1370

DATE

A. XX SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. FI/D HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: FI/D

FROM:

NAME
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING
EXTENSION

DATE

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET

C. M. Sayth
C/WH/3/с
9494
30 Jan 70

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

SECRET

31 10 02Z JAN 70 CITE DIRECTOR 006731

BOGOTA INFO MEXICO CITY PANAMA CITY GICITRON TECES

REF: BOGOTA 3483 (IN 010310)*

1. SUBJECT PARA 2 REF ASSIGNED GICITRON-4 AND 201-267298. HE WAS ORIGINAL MEMBER 26TH OF JULY MOVEMENT BUT BECAME DISILLUSIONED WITH ADMINISTRATIVE INCOMPETENCE OF CASTRO REGIME (HE INVESTED $50,000 IN REVOLUTION) AND SOVIETIZATION OF CUBA. HE TURNED AGAINST CASTRO IN 1959 AND WITH OTHER ANTI-CASTRO REVOLUTIONARIES SUPPLIED ARMS TO CUBAN COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES FROM HIS EXILE IN MEXICO. WHILE IN MEXICO HE HAD EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN CUBAN DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES AND WITH CUBAN UNITED NATION AND MEXICAN POLICE OFFICIALS. HE WAS RATED RELIABLE SOURCE BY STATION MEXICO CITY. HE WAS GRANTED OA 6 JUNE 60 FOR ASSISTING IN COORDI- NATION OF ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO AS PART OF AMKAIL OPERATION. BY 1963, HOWEVER, HIS OPERATIONAL CONTACTS HAD BECOME MARGINAL AND THEREAFTER HE WAS NOT USED BY STATION. THERE IS NO INFO AT HQS TO PRECLUDE YOUR PROPOSED USE OF HIM. WE PROCESSING POA.

CS COPY

SECRET

201-267298:
31 JAN 70
CONTINUED

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET

ORIG:

UNITS:

6XX:

DATES:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

1. 
6. 
2. 
7. 
3. 
8. 
4. 
9. 
5. 
10. 
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ILG 3 9 08 AH '70

INDEX

DESTROY
10
RETURIMO
24 FM 70
BRANCH
FILE RID

BY

PER:

NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.-

COMP:

INFO:
FILE
VE

RID/EDIRED COPY

RID/EDI

SECRET

(eliete)
(reference number)

TO PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR 006731

2. CONCUR IN REF PROPOSAL THAT IMPROVEMENT GICITRON
   RECEPTION COULD IMPROVE PRODUCT AND, HENCE, WORTH PURSUING.
   THOUGHT OCCURS TO HQS THAT. GISOY-92, BEING AWARE GICITRON
   OPERATION, WOULD PROBABLY SUSPECT PROPOSED LYTHGOE COVER
   OFFICE IN GICITRON BUILDING IS NEW LP. DO YOU PLAN MAKF
   GISOY-92 WITTING OF LYTHGOE ROLE? IF NOT, WOULD HE BE
   PIQUED IF HE LATER LEARNED OF IT? WHAT REPERCUSSIONS
   COULD THIS HAVE ON STATION/GISOY RELATIONS? WOULD APPRECIATE
   YOUR COMMENTS.

3. FILE: 201-267298.

END OF MESSAGE

> [Figure: Text below is a footnote]
> *Ref proposed renting office space in building where Novosti
> news agency is located so that Station could acquire clocer
> LP for monitoring "take" from present tech installation of
> Novosti.

![signature of william v. broe]

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

![signature of e. juhedson]

WH/1 E. Juhedson

WH/2/P. Schafer

SB/X/WH RLVely

TSD/AOB - Mr. Collyer (by phone)
COORDINATING OFFICERS

![signature of alfonso spera]

Spera
ALFONSO SPERA

C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCT BY OTHER THAM THE ISSUING OFFICE

GROUP 1
Excluded from sutomatic
downgrading and
dectensification

ROHIBITED,

COPY HO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Above handcarry 3 copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

TO: X CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

DATE 22 Jan 70

FROM: C. Roberson, Jr.
171-3-C 38 2627
X. 8-9494

CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:

PROJECT

(True name) MACHADO Llosa, Manuel C-80433

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM. AKA OR ALIASES

CI/DA FILE NO.

LITATIL-1 (Former Crypt)

"Hanuelito"

GNCTERCE

RI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE AO.
201-267298

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

X PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT NAME CHECK

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

X SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

CONTRACT TYPE A

CONTRACT TYPE B

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Bogota, Colombia

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

To form a corporation to provide cover for Bogota
Station asset Errol R. LYTIGER business and funds.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                                      | YES | NO  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :-: | :-: |
| A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                       |     |  X  |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAT BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                                   |  X  |     |
| C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?                              |     |  X  |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HEMT                                          |     |  X  |
| E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.             |     |     |
| F. SUGGEST COVER PRETEXT TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT. |     |     |
| G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT VITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST?             | YES |     |
| IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY                                       |     |     |


5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

X PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED

PRO 11 WILL BE FORWARDED

I GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NOI

6. RI TRACES

NO RECORD

BILL FORWARD

X NON-DEROGATORY

DEROGATORY ATTA ED

7. DIVISION TRACES

NO RECORD

BILL FORWARD

X NON-DEROGATORY

DEROGATORY ATTE ED

8. FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD

BILL FORBARD

I DEROGATORY ATTACHED

X NO DEROGATORY INFO.

SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED

LIST SOURCES CHECKED Bogota & Me

NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER

FATENSION SIGNATURE OF DRANCH CHIEF

FORM 772
EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

27 January 1965 travelled from Mexico City to Venezuela
on a tourist visa.

14 April 1964 travelled from Cuba to Mexico on Ppt #696,
file # 532/59 issued 19 January 1959. The passport was extended 14 April 1964 for 3 years by the Cuben Consul, EREKKAIX
Mexico City.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# WH/3/C

SECRET
(When Filled In)

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

| DOC. SYMBOL & NO. | DATE OF DOC.       | FILE CLASSIFICATION OF RECORD COPY |
| ----------------- | ------------------ | ---------------------------------- |
|                   |                    |                                    |
| DOC. SUBJECT      |                    |                                    |
| SOURCE CRYPTONYM  | SOURCE INFORMATION | EVALUATION                         |
|                   | DATE OF INFO.      |                                    |

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite doc. distribution, Dissem. No., etc. if applicable)

MACHADO Losa, Manuel

201-267298

WH/3/C

THIS IS A RESTRICTED CI/CA FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201

FORM 44 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS ABSTRACT FILE SLIP

Indicate The Subject, Project Or
201 File No. In Which This
Form Is To Be Filed.

|     |     | 2 Feb 70 |
| --- | --- | -------- |

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle)

|     | 201- 26 72 98 |
| --- | ------------- |

FORM 867 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP 1
(7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

MACHADO, MANUEL

SFX M 005 7

CIT?

OFC ?

PE CUBAN GYERNMENT BOOK ON MEXICAN PHASE OF THE REVOLUTION

FLD INDEX ONLY

WH/006 Cards

20 Jan 1970

050-006-128/03

HMMA-33839

17 JAN 68

+50-6-124/4
P2

UFG 950


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

14-80600

## lalsness

### (202-267396)

Subject, Operator of Publo *FATAL*.

Subj. Osman exits to Belize, but may visit occasionally to new printing establishment, *Akanol* Barrenechea 1.A., Avenida de Yslasnos 710, Belize, C.A.

|           |     |
| --------- | --- |
| 5-29-1985 |     |
| 1015 hrs  |     |
| 2409-173  |     |

(Some businessmen in Mexico & one U.S. are of P. drug shipment-repts, & one U.S. the business addresses in Yslasnos 710, Belize C.A. Says source, if 1 U.S. is entitled *Fiscal* de la registration from in. outside the M.O., if ever exits to Madrid.

Subject says he alr leave recently (Mexican cities) in the last week. Subj will be returning to Mexico. Said (can't recall name) is head of Cuban radio station in Fort. Benning, Ga. Gave same locally produced in Guatemala. Mentions, would like owner of printing like him. (General Pat A.E., S.A., Tel: or Tlx. Said Atty. (Hial DP recalls).)

| 5-30-1985 |
| 0912 hrs    |
| 2409-174    |

Subj. planned to leave Mexico City for Retana 15 June 1985. And he expected to leave for Dan Fort. Says to be back to Mexico City on Sunday 16 June. Price purchased is going to Mexico and to return to Ft. Fl Capture the brilliant work being done by Salvador Rosello Salinas. Makes ambassador in Mexico. Gossip is being orchestrated for a position in Lactura's contact.

| 5-31-1985 |
| 14 June 1985 |
| Intercepted   |

## ABCTV (Items, Panama)

### 7-132-13-6

Subj leaving Fort Geo. 12 Feb and will see att Deal Berr. , Turtle Berrl. , Fortier Pines, Attering best 17 Feb at latest.

| 5-17-85    |
| 1230 hrs |

Malincky reported that what's/as/experienced, to late Bear 79, by localside means, under vehicle to Fort City, Panama; to contact me to lure r/of Latrous-1 20 eo hoteltype to Cuba she could provide area for ABCTV Directive group in Mexico. ABCTV dispersion, well-known PA artist, reported heading group meeting

| 5-17-85 |
| 3-1/19.325    |
| 8-5/19.090  |
| 8-5/19.440  |

**NPA, inf, available in M/A/94, 202-667798.**


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/URMET MOTIPIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED FLOTTED

BY: ATI: Z

DIESEM BY: 16 PER

ACTION UNIT: WH8 FILE, VR RILAN, CI, Cilops, F12, TSD 6

ACTION NO: 881

LASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 21
SECAFT
GROUP.I
(When illed In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED.

INDEXI YES NO

CLARIFY TO CS PILE NO.
X-REP TO CS FILE NO.

FILE RO RETURN TO

BRANCH.

SECRET 261705Z JAN 78 CITE MEXICO CITY 2329 (PRALLETT ACTING)

BOGOTA INFO DIRECTOR, PANAMA CITY

GICITROE TECKS

REF: BOGOTA 3483 (O/0310)-

26 JAN INO 13404

1. NO DATA MEXICO CITY STATION WHICH MILITATES AGAINST
   USING MACHADO PER PARA 2, REF.

2. FILE: 281-267298.

SECRET

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| AN  | UB  |
| AB  |     |
| N   |     |
| N   |     |
| N   |     |
| DEC | MED |
| N   |     |
| WH/ |     |

LUH/2CI

CS COPY
SECRET

201-267298
26 JAN 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET

PERSONAUMEY NOTIPIED WH/3/G_

REFROCUTION OF THIS COFF PROMIDITED

GROUP 1

5

6

7

8

DVDEX: YES NO

ACTION LOLIT WH 8

CLARIFY TO CS FILE мо. 3
X-REP TO CS FILE NO.

FILE, VR BILAN

SECRET 282245Z JAN 70 CITE BOGOTA 3483

DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY INFO: PANAMA CITY

GICITRON TECHS

20 JAN INO 10310
M

1. STATION HAS LEARNED OF SPACE BEGGING AVAILABLE IN GIC)

ITRON TARGET BUILDING WHICH SHOULD IMPROVE RECEPTION AND THEREFORE TAKE CONSIDERABLY. FOR VARIETY

REASONS BELIEVE ERROL R. LYTHGOE (FOR MEXI: FORMERLY LITAINT-1) SHOULD RENT AND SERVICE AND TOLD HIM TO FORM
A COMPANY WHICH COULD PROVIDE COVER FOR THIS. HE SAID HE HAD ALREADY FORMED ONE FOR TAX PURPOSES IN CONJUNCTION WITH

MANUEL MACHADO LLOSA, CUBAN MANAGER FOR COLOMBIA OF GALAS Y CIA., MEXICAR-HEADQUARTERED PRINTING FIRM.

CHACHADO IS LONG-TIME FRIEND OF LYTHGOE WHO PERFORMED COPS TASKS FOR RVROCK IN MEXICO AND IS AWARE OF LYTHGOE'S OPERATIONAL HISTORY.

2. IF THERE NO DATA HEADQUARTERS OF MEXICO WHICH MILITATES AGAINST USING MACHADO OPERATIONALLY REQUEST HEADQUARTERS OBTAIN CLEARANCE OF PRIORITY BASIS TO PROVIDE COVER FOR LYTHGOE'S BUSINESS AND FUNDS. ALTHOUGH HE NOTNVO BE INVOLVED DIRECTLY IN OPERATING: IT MUST BE EXPECTED THAT,

CS COPY
SECRET

AN

FI

☆

201-267298

20 JAN 40


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

PERSON/UBREY NOTIFIED

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

GROUP 1
SOLIDO PON STEELTE
SELECSPCATIES

ADVANCE O IEUED ELOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DIEXI YES NO

CLASRPY TO CS FILE NO.

DIESDA BY
ACTION PET

ACTION MO

INFO FILE, VR

KREP TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID RETURN TO: BRANCH

PAGE TWO CITE BOGOTA 3483 SECRET

CUBANS BEING CUBANS, HE WILL BE MORE THAN GENERALLY
AWARE OF WHAT IS GOING ON,

ADVISE SOONEST IF ANY HINDRANCE TO USING MACHADO SINCE MUST
MOVE FAST TO SECURE THE SPACE.

3. PLEASE FORWARD PETINENT MATERIALS FROM
   MACHADO 201, CRYPTONYM AND 201 NUMBER.

4. NO INDEX. FILE MACHADO 201.

SECRET

A PORTION GARALAD-SKIEG SERVICED

![SECRET stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

PRQ PART I EQUIVALENT

NAME:
MACHADO Llosa, Manuel.

DFOB:
12 December 1913, Auras, Oriente, Cuba

OCCUPATION: Manager for Colombia of Galas y Cia., Mexican-
Headquarted Printing Firm in Bogota, Colombia

CITIZENSHIP: Cuban

BROTHER:
Pablo MACHADO Llosa


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# SECRET
NOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON REVERSE SIDE TYPE OR PRINT

# 201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

**TO:** RID/201 Section Room GA-20 Tube Address DW-6 DATE

**FROM:** Name OFFICE ROOM PHONE TUBE ADDRESS

1. 
| TYPE ACTION | OPEN | 2. FILE RESTRICTED | YES | 3. PERMANENT CHARGE | YES |
| ----------- | ---- | ------------------ | --- | ------------------- | --- |
| AMEND       | NO   |                    | NO  |                     | NO  |

4. TRUE NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) 5. 201 NO.

6. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (see Instructions, item 6)

TYPE (Last) (First) (Middle)

7. SEX FI. 8. DATE OF BIRTH 9. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 10. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH

11. CITIZENSHIP 12. OCCUPATION (clear text) OCC. CODE 13. SUL

14. ORGANIZATION OR INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION OF CODE

15. DOCUMENT SYMBOL & NUMBER DATE 16. RESIDENCE

17. COMMENTS (text for Index cards)

18. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE 19. ACTION DESK CODE 20. SECONDARY DESK CODE

21. INFORMATION ADDRESSEES

22. CRYPTONYM

23. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTER HAND CARRY OR FORWARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE. 201 NO.

FORM 831 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS (38-51)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# IDATION REQUEST

EXT. 5126 382627
TUBE 854 DATE BID CONTROL 85.

19Jan 70

| TO           | TUBE | ROOM | DATE    | INITIALS | CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS |
| ------------ | ---- | ---- | ------- | -------- | --------------------- |
| RID/INDEX    | DT-3 |      | 21-1-70 |          |                       |
| REQUESTER    |      |      |         |          |                       |
| RID/FILES    | DT-6 |      |         |          |                       |
| REQUESTER    |      |      |         |          |                       |
| RID/ANALYSIS | GT-7 |      |         |          |                       |
| RID/201      | OB-6 |      |         |          |                       |
| RID/INDEX    | DT-8 |      |         |          |                       |

JAN 21 3 07 PH '70

SURNAME SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED GIVEN NAMES

MACHADO LLOSA, MANUEL

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

201 NO. IF KNOWN

ARA. ALIASES OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, I. S. affiliations, etc.)

CUBAN MANAGER FOR COLOMBIA OF GALASY CIA, MERICAN HQS PRINTING FIRM.

| SEX | DATE OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | RESIDENCE        |
| --- | ------------- | -------------- | ----------- | ---------------- |
| M   |               |                |             | BOGOTA, COLOMBIA |

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK. COMMENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED C-25 frus M

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES 201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Use gummed label; type or print all entries.
2. Upon receipt of index card reproductions draw a green diagonal line across the items you do not want.
3. Edit (use green) the reproduced index cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with green D and note reason for destruction) Examples: document destroyed; duplicate or less informative than retained in- formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu- ding infinity symbol ∞ when card in- cludes all facts contained in the document.

1. Return this form with the card repro- ductions, also return pertinent documents, aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference to be placed in the 201 file), green D the corresponding card and check (a) or (b) below:

(a) ☐ Consolidate into 201-

(b) ☐ Open 201 file on subject.

| RESTRICTION (If any) | CRYPTONYM ASSIGNED |     |
| -------------------- | ------------------ | --- |
|                      | YES                | NO  |
|                      | FILE TO BE KEPT    |     |
|                      | RID                | DES |

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

Note 2. Information concerning foreign public personalities (except mili- tary) may be available in BR/OCR x7997.

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG are in RID/AFD, and those that meet indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are carded in the CS Main Index. If you believe there could be additional in- formation of value in these records, you must request an Archives Index search.

DATE SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER

362 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET (4-8-381)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

@ 'MANUELITO'

A MEXICO

OWNER AND MANAGER OF 'MACHADO, S. A.' /LITHOGRAPH PLANT/. LEADER OF 26 JULY GROUP, CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY. /AFP/

ELOSA, MANUEL B.

Peru- 17 Jun 48

IN 45700
Lima 387

New Minister of Finance.

658
From: CIA
To: State

310603

MACHADO, Manuel Vieira

VIEIRA MACHADO, Manuel

61-0-1-109
(HFLA-1959)

29MAR-55

THIS
CARD
FILED IN
INDEX

MACHADO, Manuel Richard
Born: 12 February 1925
Hudson, Massachusetts

The files of SO (Security Office) contains information on the subject of this card.

033107


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

RES. OCCUPATION

> [Figure: This card filed in main index]

MACHADO, Manuel Richard
Born: 12-Feb 1925
Hudson, Mass,

FILE

MACHADO, MANUEL JUAQUIM LOPES (DE) (SA)

SEXM DOB 20 JAN 35
201-8524610
PORTUGAL, MASOUCO
CIT PORTUGAL
TYPE NAME: T.
OCC DIPLOMAT
OCC CODE DIPT
REF H88-1000, 12 MAY 69
OI CODE ?
< BRAZIL, BRASILIA
COUNSELLOR IN BRASILIA, BRAZIL
HUSBAND OF (SA) MACHADO, REGINA

6906111271

MACHADO, MANUEL GINESTAL /DR./

SEX M DOB ?
061-004-117
CPL 00808 E0
09 JUN 60
P 27
CIT PORTUGAL
A RUA DE S. NICOLAU, 36
MEMBER OF THE SANTAREM DISTRICT COMMISSION OF
THE MOVIMENTO DE UNIDADE DEMOCRATICA
/MUD/ AS OF 1947.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

✓HACHADO, Antonio Mendonca
HERBONGAY-Catelina-Adelaide
de FREITAS, Karia Alice
✓MACHADO, Celina M. Freitas
MACHADO, Antonio Mendonca Jr.
NACHADO, Jose Merconca

AZORES
This card filed in
MAIN 15 Jan 1954
USA

SFUSJORS:
MACHADO, Manuel

013004

Madrid-X-2-Pts-10
Folder H

A-1783
REFERENCH CAND
MACHADO, MANUEL
Writes German and Italian pronsgende
gtones/yPalungo.

21943

FACHADO, Manuel Richard

2003

THIS CARD ED
GMAY 1254

31312 IN MAIN INDEX

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

Zenter of the Spanish Academy

T

MACHADO, MANUEL
DOB ?
CIT VENEZUELA
RES: MEXICO
ONE OF THE FOUNDERS OF THE COMMUNIST
PARTY OF VENEZUELA,

201-005939
TMM-02878
09 SEP 52
SER. 161

MACHADO, MANUEL
DOB?
CIT VENEZUELA
RES: MEXICO
MEMBER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY

050-004-012
TMM-02758
SER. 245

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

MACHADO, MANUEL

019-009-0003
ΜΕΧΙ-02161.
14 AUG 58

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY IN MEXICO..

L-2 R-5207

MACHADO, MANUEL

SPR X-2 H-5207 0-15 MARTIKS, ARTOBIO

1001
2/2/24

![unreadable text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET 092228Z

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 3735

PBRUMEN LITAMIL

1.  LITAMIL-1 SUBMITTED FLWG NAMES IN RESPONSE SPOTTING RQM. (A) ING. MIGUEL L. PALMER, FORMER CHIEF FERROCARRILES OCCIDENTALES DE CUBA WHO WORKED FOR MANOLO RAY IN SABOTAGING CUBAN RR SYSTEM UNDER BATISTA (B) LUIS ARGIBAY, BORN C. 1933, CURRENTLY IN TOUCH WITH CURBELO OF CUBAN EMB IN ATTEMPT OBTAIN EXIT VISAS FOR ARGIBAY FAMILY. (C) RAUL VIANELLO GARCIA, FORMER CUBAN CONSUL GENL MEXI.

2.  REQUEST TRACES ON ALL THREE WHO NOW MEXI. VIANELLO INTENDS PROCEED U.S. MOMENTARILY TO JOIN FRIEND DR. RODRIGO BUSTAMANTE AT V.A. HOSPITAL, WOOD, WISCONSIN (SIC). VIANELLO WAS NOT DEBRIEFED BY LICOMETS. L-3 SUGGESTS USE HIS TRUE NAME (IDEN) AS BONA FIDES IN EVENT FOLLOWUP ON VIANELLO.

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

4. DATE

MACHADO LLOSAS, Manuel

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM

8. DATE OF INFO.

9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

Mary Thervieu
WH/SM

THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/OA FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201 HELD UNDER CF 80638

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

![Arrow]

201-262298

FORM 867
8-57 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

INDEX: YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID ☐ RLI. TO BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIL 2/

SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
REFR CUCTION PROHIBITED
FROM
MEXICO CITY

RID COPY ☐ ADVANCE COPY ☐ISSUED ☐SLOTTED ☐TOBED

FILE, VR, WH/C 8, CI/OPS, FI/ENTZ

SECRET 392229Z

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 3787
FBRUMEN LITANIL
REF MEXI 3736 *(J/s)*
IDEN: DR. RICARDO VIDAL ("VIDALITO").
SECRET
CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                                |          |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- |
|                                       | 2. RI FILE NO.          |                                |          |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                 |                                |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. DATE OF INFO.        | 9. EVALUATION                  |          |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. DATE PROCESSED       | 10. DISSEMINATED IN            | 11. DATE |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION    | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |          |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

HACHADO LLOSAS, MANUEL
201-267298
SEX M DOB ?

019-005-001
UFGA-21693/14
01 JUN 65
P35

CIT ?
OCC ?
BELIEVED IDEN/W MACHADO MANUEL WHO WAS CONTACT
OF SUBJ OF 201-754938.

R 6506161148

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.:

201-267/298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

TO: CHIEF, CI/OA

FROM: (Division) WHD/3 (Case officer) Bestos (Extension) 6026

SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt of true name be used) LITAVIL-1

NAME SHOWN IS: TRUE  PSEUDO COPT

CI/OA NO. C-80638

201 NO. 201-267298

PROJECT: ncnc

DATE OF BIRTH: 12 Dec 1913

PLACE OF BIRTH: Auras, Oriente, Cuba

AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD: IS ATTACHED WILL BE FORWARDED

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION

became marginal

DATE: 23 August 1963

SIGNATURE

IF SUBJECT IS USED IN ANY CAPACITY, A NEW REQUEST FOR APPROVAL WILL BE SUBMITTED TO CI/OA

FORM 937 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION.

SECRET

(30)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, \

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LITAMIL-1 and LITAIL-5 now Undon/1 -201-20213 4

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

Ambel/1-21-267248

ACTION: FYI

REFERENCES: A. HOW 11727

B. HM 11729

Agent Service Record on Subjects are enclosed as requested in the References.

Attachment:
As stated above

Distribution:
3 C/WIID w/att
3 - Files

> [Figure: Stamp with text. The visible text is: SILITSE]

> [Figure: Stamp with text. The visible text is: MICROFILMED AUG 16 1963 DOC. MICRO. SER. CS COPY]

CROSS REFERENCE TO: D-201-30834/(fled)

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: EMA 21924

DATE: 201-267278 9 August 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET
AGENT SERVICE RECORD

1. Agent Cryptonym: LITAMIL - 1

2. Project: LITAMIL

3. Agent Recruited By: Clydo K. SHRYOCK Date: 6 Nov. 1959

4. Capacity in Which Agent Served: Spotter, info Cuban exiles, Cuban Officials, penetration 26 July movement.

5. Rate of Pay: None. Was given $10,000.00 as a loan, will probably never be repaid.

6. Other Commitments: None.

7. Agent Dismissed By: Not dismissed, but not recontacted after SHRYOCK's departure.

8. Reason for Dismissal: Became marginal.

9. Security Risks: None.

10. Is the Agent Recommended for Reuse: Yes, depending on circumstances.

11. Manner of Dismissal: No recontact made after SHRYOCK's departure.

12. Letter of Termination Signed: No

13. Cost of Termination: See 5 above

14. Station Case Officer: Terrence P. MOOER

15. Chief of Station: Willard C. CURTIS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

: Chief of Station, Mexico City

: Chief, WH Division

: PBRUMEN/LITAMIL-1

Headquarters files reveal no Station contact with LITAMIL-1 since October 1962. It is requested that the Station report on its current relationship with LITAMIL-1. If this agent has been terminated, please submit an Agent Service Record.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
01 - COS, Mexico City





SECRET

2 July 1963

201-267298

| OFFICE        | OFFICER   |
| ------------- | --------- |
| WH/3/Mexico/C | Bustos:dd |
| EXT.          | 5940      |

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE | COORDINATING | OFFICER'S NAME |
| ------------- | ---- | ------------ | -------------- |


| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE       |
| ------------- | ---------- |
| C/WHD         | 3 JUL 1963 |

for J. C. King

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# 081

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE LITAMIL

SECRET

ROUTING

DATE : 17 OCT 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/TFW 5

INFO : DDP, ADDP, C/SO0 3, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/WH 5, S/C 2*

OCT 17 0508Z 62

ROUTINE

IN 40768

DIR GUAT INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 2221

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.*

GYROSE/LITAMIL

REF MEXI 2222 Ca 407731

1. ON 16 OCT 62, LITAMIL-2 REPORTED MTG PRO-UILIDAD "CLANDESTINE UNIT"
   NIGHT 15 OCT COMPOSED FOL: LITAMIL-1, LITAMIL-2, LITAMIL-3,
   LITAMIL-5, HORACIO WIESZESUK GUERRERO, JOSE MANUEL LOPEZ ALFONSO,
   TULIO PRIETO RUIZ, FERNANDO OROZCO, AND DR. ALFREDO FERRER.

2. AT MTG LOPEZ TOLD GROUP THAT COL, ENRIQUE PERALTA AZURDIA,
   GUAT MINDEF, WHO CAME MEXI OFFICIAL VISIT SEPT 62, MADE CONTACT
   LOPEZ AND OFFERED ARMS, AMMO AND (SLOW) VESSEL. PERALTA LONGTIME
   FRIEND LOPEZ. LOPEZ SAID THAT COURIER PERALTA ARRIVED MEXI FEW
   DAYS AGO AND SAID PERALTA OFFER STILL STANDS BUT THAT DIRECT CONTACT
   MUST BE MADE WITH PERALTA GUAT. GROUP CHOSE LITAMIL-2 OR LITAMIL-3
   AS MOST LIKELY PUC COURIERS VIEW FORMER'S BUSINESS INTEREST GUAT AND
   LATTER'S DIP CONTACTS. ACCORDING LOPEZ CONTACT WITH PERALTA SHOULD
   BE MADE BEFORE END OCT. PUC PLANS COLLECT FUNDS SEND COURIER GUAT
   SOONEST. WILL ADVISE. LOPEZ DID NOT IDENTIFY PERALTA COURIER.

3. L-2 REPORTED 16 OCT HE GAINING MORE CONFIDENCE WIESZESUK.
   DOES GUAT HAVE ANY INFO RE PARA 2?

4. ABOVE NOT BEING DISSEMINATED VIEW OPS INTEREST. (END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

DATE: 024 7 SEP 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/TFW 5

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/MH 5, S/C 2*

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET WO

ROUTING

SEP 8 02482 62

ROUTINE

IN 18812

DIR INFO WAVE SJAN CITE MEXI 1889

GYROSE/AMLAW-1/LITAMIL-1

REF A. MEXI 1614

B. DIR 28483

1. ON 5 SEPT 62, AMLAW-1 CALLED LITAMIL-1 AND ARRANGED MTG APARTMENT RAMON SINOBAS AT 1808 THAT EVENING.

2. AM-1 TOLD L-1 HE FELT HAD OBLIGATION MAKE CONTACT AS PROMISED PRIOR DEPARTURE FOR HAVA RE POSSIBLE DISCUSSIONS MEXI. SAID UPON ARRIVAL HAVA SAW RAUL ROA AND FIDEL CASTRO FIRST TWO DAYS. THEN DISCUSSED SUBJ MATTER OF INTEREST L-1. HE DID NOT SAY WITH WHOM HE TALKED RE MATTER. AM-1 SAID THAT CUBAN GOV'T IN VIEW THREATS AND AGRESSIVE ACTION INCLUDING SHELLING CUBAN COAST COULD NOT CONSIDER *TALKS* IN MEXI. ANY "TALKS" WOULD DEPEND ON THE U.S. CLEAR DEMONSTRATION THAT IT REALLY INTERESTED IN *TALKS*, THAT IS, THAT U.S. STOP ITS AGRESSIVE ACTIONS AND PROVE INTERESTED PEACEFUL APPROACH PROBLEMS. HE ADDED THAT THEY IN CUBA FELT THAT "TALKS" MEXI MERELY STALL FOR TIME

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
201-267298


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

PAGE 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

1
4
2
5
3
6

MEXI 1889 IN 18812

WHILE U.S. PLANNED FURTHER AGRESSION. AM-1 THEN TOLD L-1 HE NOT
ABLE UNDERSTAND DUALITY U.S. FOREIGN POLICY, THAT IS, WHILE L-1 MEXI
TRYING ARRANGE "TALKS" WITH U.S. REP OTHER AGENCIES PLANNING AGRESSION.
L-1 TOLD AM-1 HE DID NOT KNOW REASON THIS, IF TRUE, BUT SUPPOSED
DIFFERENT GROUPS INTERESTED CERTAIN ASPECTS PROBLEM AND THAT
CAUSING DUALITY.

3. AM-1 ASKED L-1 WHY HE CONSIDERED VULNERABLE "DEFECTION".
   L-1 TOLD HIM THAT ALL EXILES SURPRISED SEE HIM REMAIN WITH REGIME
   WHICH THAY FELT NOT TO HIS TASTE. AM-1 SAID THAT WHILE HE HAVA PRESS
   RELEASE FROM STOCKHOLM REPORTED AM-1 HAD TAKEN ASYLUM.

4. L-1 SAID THAT AM-1 VERY MUCH ALARMED SITUATION, CONVINCED
   U.S. PLANNING AGGRESSION. TOLD L-1 HE PLANNED BREAK NEWS TO PRESS
   RE PLANNED AGRESSION TWO OR THREE DAYS. (COMMENT: AM-1 STATEMENTS
   APPEARED PRESS MORNING 6 SEPT). DOOR "LEFT OPEN" FURTHER CONTACT
   IF FELT CONVENIENT.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT CABLES.

*RE RECRUITING SUBJ.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

Act, c/m 2, C/ 5, S/C 2

(out 63555) F

ANA-1/LITA:I-1

::: 44830

CONFIRMS), L-: USING THAT HAVE LEFT TEL KUMPER BITH AMA

APLICO T., AMB'S SECRETARY CRDER AM-1 RETURN CALL

RECVERSATICI VE HAD THAT THOSE HER CPAQUELLOS SPICE)

JERENS

SLE - SAID would RVANTAGE TRIP CURA YZEL

SENTING CRE COCRETE, ADDED THAT דעת אפקט

L-1 AND LET HIM KICY.

SE CURTIS SEES NO PROBLEM /CDACID LATIONS.

ETERNATIONAL ASFOCTS COENG SHUID AA-1

PRODUCTION SY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

PAGE 2

THEOUGH 1-1 DEMONSTRATE DESIRE DISCUSS PERSONAL SITUATION CONTIS BELIEVES THIS COULD BE HANDLED LOCALLY ON CLANDESTINE BASIS.

AT ANY RATE FUTURE ACTION DEPENDS REMARKS AM-1 UND FLAGS RETURN END AUG.

3. ANY DEVELOPMENTS RE HAS PLANNED CONTACT AM-116 FOTHWITH.

IM-LAUT

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO BEAT CABLES.

![REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN image description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

reporting use as yet to the the in for as in to have expanded considerable during July, and this report will attempt to give a bird's-eye view of the overall as a basis for future progress reporting. In summary during July 1962 the AFIO/CID registered a new team operation of the Cuban 2nd by in Mexico City: a former employee of that Theory with surely and one of channel functioning acutely know to the smir tray located a unit and their clandestina radio; that cars a cover company possibility which is being seriously considered for activation; and that they have immediately several legal traveler operations under development or active. The number 13, practically all of whom are also active.

16 August 1962


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
## SECRET
### RYBAT

CRG EDWARD MARELIUS.rk
UNIT: C/TFW/FI 1535
FXT 602 1535
DATE 6 August 1962

TO MEXICO CITY JMWAVE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF. /TFW 5
DIST. DDH, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/WH 5, S/C 2

TO MEXI
INFO WAVE
RYBAT GYROSE LITAMIL-1 per CSH 43-43

REF: A. MEXI 1614 (IN 40150)

B. HMMA-19172, 8 JUNE 1962

1. SUBJECT REF A ASSIGNED CRYPTONYMN AMLAW-1.

2. CONCUR STATION OPINION REASONS AMLAW-1 INTEREST FURTHER MEETS AND DESIRE FOLLOW UP BY INTRODUCTION KUBARK STAFFER AT APPROPRIATE TIME. APPEARS FROM WHAT WE KNOW OF A-1 AND INTIMATIONS REF B, HE MORE INTERESTED IN HONEST BROKER ROLE THAN DEFECTION OR ANY OTHER TYPE ROLE IN PLACE, FEEL THEREFORE WE SHLD APPROACH HIM WITH THIS IN MIND AND PLAY HIM FOR INTEL, PREPARED HOWEVER TO PUT HIM ON PAYROLL OR CATCH HIM IF HE DROPS.

3. ABOVE RAISES PROBLEM OF HANDLING (1) VIS A VIS EMB AND ODACID AND (2) SELECTION APPROPRIATE STAFFER, I. E., SUFFICIENTLY SENIOR SPANISH SPEAKER PREFERABLY, WE ASSUME, FROM OUTSIDE MEXI, WHO AVAILABLE FOR PERIODIC MEETINGS,

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
RYBAT

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

CONT........
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

201-267298

![routing table]

![fyi logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

ORIG: EDWARD MARELIUS:kk
UNIT: C/TFW/FI
EXT: 6172
DATE: 6 August 1962-
TO: MEXICO CITY JMWAVE
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

PAGE TWO

TO INFO CITE DIR 28483

WLD HAVE RENARD AVAILABLE THIS PURPOSE IN ABOUT A MONTH. REQUEST CURTIS COMMENTS ON ALL ABOVE, ESP ODACID/EMB ANGLE.

4. MEANWHILE, SUGGEST LITAMIL-1 RECONTACT A-1 PRIOR LATTER'S DEPARTURE FOR ANOTHER GENERAL TALK ALONG LINES STATION SUGGESTS WITH ADDED FILLIP THAT HE ABLE GUARANTEE CHAT WITH ODYOKE OFFICIAL ON A-1 OSTENSIBLE TERMS AFTER PBRUMEN TRIP.

5. IF IT TURNS OUT THERE IS MORE BEHIND A-1 CALL THAN WE HAVE READ INTO IT, HQS PREPARED AND STATION AUTHORIZED GO ALL OUT MAKE A DEAL WITH HIM.

(END OF MESSAGE)

TFW/SA
WH3/MEX COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 4 AUG 62

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ROUTING

1
2
3
4
5
6

AUG 4 2025Z 62

ACTION: C/TFW 5 (HR MULLOY TFW NOTIFIED & COPY SLOTTED AT 1745, 4 AUG)

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/AH 5, S/C 2

PRIORITY

IN 40150

PRITY DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 1614

REF MEXI 1475UN32730 DESENSITIZED

GYROSE/LITAMIL-1/RYBAT per CSN 43-43

1. NIGHT 3 AUG, CARLOS LECHUGA HEVIA, CUBAN AMB MEXI CALLED LILAMIL-1 AND ASKED HIM WHAT HAD DEVELOPED RE CONTACT PARA 4 REF. L-1 SAID HE HAD NOT HEARD BUT SUPPOSED CASE STILL UNDER STUDY.

2. LECHUGA MOVE HIGHLY INTERESTING AS L-1 WAS TO HAVE MADE CONTACT LECHUGA WHEN NEWS RE CONTACT AVAILABLE.

3. MEXI OPINION L-1 SHOULD CONTACT LECHUGA SOONEST ORDER EXPAND DISCUSSION REF AND SEEK COMMON GROUND RE LECHUGA PERSONAL POSITION. IN VIEW LECHUGA SCHEDULED TRIP HAVA 10 AUG REQUEST HAS COMMENTS SOCHEST AS TO WHAT L-1 MIGHT SAY. STATION OPINION LECHUGA INTERESTED U.S. CONTACT ORDER DISCUSS CUBAN U.S. RELATIONS OR PERSONAL SITUATION.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: "LITAMIL 7 TOLD CARDOS LECHUGA THAT LITAMIL 1 INTERESTED TALK TO HIM RE PERSONAL MATTER."

SECRET

680GP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

201-267298 Copy No.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

22 MARCH 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

SUBJECT: Transfer of Agent Files to TFW

The following agent files have been permanently transferred to TFW. They will assume all responsibility for these agents effective this date. The area of operations and duties for the agents will not change, therefore, no PRQ II amendments will be submitted and the effective clearences are valid.


LITANTL-1 C-80638 201-267298
LITANTL-2 C-82583 201-275992
LITANTL-4 C-86903 201-275058
LITANTL-6 C-93632 201-304783


W. P. Holman
C/III/3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)