# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![image of routing and record sheet]

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments, requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID

*Ac/ws*

| TO          | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                                                                                            |
| ----------- | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. C/S/Rclp |          | 21 MAR        |                |                    | 1 gy det for c/3/510 C/CI/510 has advises that British officers handler these agents 06 on (Wynne - Ellen)locally song 4 march 1962 |
| 2.          |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 3. IF/DMS-  |          | 5 MAR 77      |                | MSG                |                                                                                                                                     |
| 4. DW-6     |          | 5 MAR 77      |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 5. CI/CA/I  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 6. CT-5     |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 7.          |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 8.          |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 9.          |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 10.         |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 11.         |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 12.         |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 13.         |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 14.         |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |
| 15.         |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                     |

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

RYBAT

RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO RID FOR MICROFILMING BEFORE IT IS FILED. IF THIS DOCUMENT IS TO BE RESTRICTED, CHECK HERE

RESTRICTED TO

Unit Designation

201-09948

FILE TITLE

TRACE REQUEST

ABSTRACT

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WE

FROM: Chief of Station, London

SUBJECT: Operational/REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/AELADLE Michael WYNKE-ELLIS

ACTION REQUIRED: See below

REFERENCE: OEIM-19307, 23 January 1962

(SMOTH appreciated the KGB document forwarded with Reference and have submitted the following comments and questions:

1. "We have a number of questions about this document on which we should be grateful for your comments, and as background to some of these we think it will be useful for you to have an account of (WYNNE-ELLIS) dealings with AELADLE:

a. "They date from June 1961 when he was considering a visit to the U.S.S.R. He mentioned this to the Soviet Ambassador, whom he met at the Queen's Erthday Celebration in Helsinki, (he did not realise at first that it was the Ambassador to whom he was talking). The Ambassador suggested that he should get in touch with Ivan Efimovich SERGEEV, an identified R.I.S. officer.

b. "Between 5th and 15th July 1961 (WYNNE-ELLIS) went to the Consular Section of the Soviet Embassy to see about the visa. Apparently he did not see SERGEEV but met AELADLE who showed a good deal of curiosity about him and asked whether he had ever been to the U.S.S.R. before, whether he had applied in London for a visa, what he was doing in Helsinki etc. The possibility of ABLADLE taking English lessons from WYNNE-ELLIS was mentioned and AELADLE said he would get in touch with WYNNE-ELLIS about this. He asked for a short biogrphy of WYNNE-ELLIS)

c. "He brought the visa application forms and his biography to AELADLE two days later and although AELADLE was apparently very busy he asked WYNNE-ELLIS for clarification of various details AELADLE did no notytake English lessons from (WYNNE-ELLIS)

d. At the end of September, or beginning of October 1961, WYNNE-ELLIS received a letter from AELADLE asking for the address of his pen friend in Russia, Stanislav GALKIN, who had been concerned in (WYNNE-ELLIS,% recruitment by the R.I.S (WYNNE-ELLIS) telephoned AELADLE to say that he did not have the new address. AELADLE told him that if he wanted it, he could have a visa 'tomorrow' to visit Stalingrad (now Volgograd) and in the course of conversation said sometimes it is better to visit places but not old friends'. We wondered at the time, and ever more after AELADLE's defection, whether this remark had any special significance.

e. "On 16th November AELADLE invited (WYNNE-ELLIS) to attend a Soviet concert. AELADLE told him that he had been granted a tourist visa but that if he wished to visit his pen friend he would require a letter of invitation from him. AFLADLE asked about_is British friends in Helsinki and said that he would phone WYNNE-ELLIS next week to make a further appointment. He did not do this.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET/RYBAT : CELA-35334

f. "A further development which may be of interest is that in early January 1952 *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* received a further letter from his Russian pen friend giving him a fairly pressing invitation to visit him. *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* who was not aware of AELADLE's defection, wrote to AELADLE telling him that he had now receiven the invitation, and inviting him to coffee at his house!

2. "We thought that the arrival of this letter (it was dated 25.12.61) so shortly after AELADLE's defection, and after a long gap in the correspondence between *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* and his pen friend, might indicate that the R.I.S. suspected that *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* had had a hand in AELADLE's defection. *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* was never aware that AELADLE was an R.I.S. officer.

3. "As you know from an earlier conversation about this case *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* is a most unsatisfactory character to deal with, and we believe that the R.I.S. have found him equally unsatisfactory! We have no reason to suppose that (he has double-crossed us since he was turned) but we would not exclude this as a possibility - or at least would not exclude the possibility that he might have considered this.

4. "Our questions on the *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* document supplied by AELADLE are as follows:

a. "What is the manuscript word at the top of the first page, and what is its significance?

b. "The two typed words, one immediately below the manuscript word on page 1 and the other to the left, are not legible on our copy.

c. "Is there any significance in the date 11th November being in inverted commas, thus "11"?

d. "We are puzzled by what at first sight appeared to be a date, 22.XII.1961, in the heading immediately above the text on page 1. In fact the Roman numerals XII are the cyrillic letter XIT, but we do not understand their meaning. Can AELADLE explain this?

e. "What is the name in which the document is signed, and does AELADLE know the true identity of this person?

f.d"we are a little surprised at the cyrillic trans-literation of *WYNNE-ELLIS*'s name. We should have expected the KGB to have a system which would enable them to get back to the correct English spelling. Admittedly *(WYNNE-ELLIS)*'s name is an awkward one to deal with.

g. "We should have expected that AELADLE would have sent a trace request to his Headquarters shortly after the first meeting with *(WYNNE-ELLIS)* in July 1961. Yet the reply was apparently sent only on 11th November. Can AELADLE comment on this?

5. "We do not wish to suggest by these comments that we suspect that this dooument might be a forgery, but we would be grateful for your confirmation that you do not consider this a possibility.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET/FYBAT CELA-35934

6. "You will no doubt in due course be questioning06
   AELADLE in detail on his knowledge of the (WYNNE-ELLIS) care.
   We do not at this stage wish to suggest detailed questions
   except to remark that we do not know the real names of any
   of the R.I.S. officers who dealt with him - including the
   man whom, it is stated in the AELADLE document, he met in
   the U.K. There is some mystery about this because (WYNE-00 WYNE-OG
   ELLIS) denies having met any R.I.S. officer in the U.K.,
   he did however have contact with various Russians here
   (including an R.I.S. officer) and we suspect that the
   R.I.S. officer never identified himself as such to WYANE-06
   ELLIS."

Distribution:

3 - Chief, SR

2 - Chief, WE

James L. ORIFFITHS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)