# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

LONDON

EXPECTED TO: ARRIVE CAN APR 64

KNOWN TO BE IN MEX CITY AS OF 1 DEC, DEPARTED '66 MAYA 21

TEMP ON VISIT TO SEE AGENT

MAR 64

69 AND 51ST AVES AND 78 AND 80TH STS LARRAZABAL HAVANA HABANA

APR 64

MEXICO CITY 23 MAR 64

THAY MEX TM MAY 21-23 MAR 64 BY PLANE ECCA 665 ENROUTE CAN

NEW YORK 16 OCT 67

PAGE 1944 SECRET/NOFORN 116781 EZ IMPDET CL BY 063729

---

116781 SECRET/NOFORN CONT.

REPORTED PNG

CUBA

MAZATLAN CONDESA MEXICO CITY 11 DEC 70

MEXICO CITY

CUBA HAVANA HAVANA 27 AUG 73

CID COLON DIMAS

UK LONDON CA JUL 62

COLLEAGUE

ODENVY PBA-18727

DOMENECH GADEA MEXICO CITY 18 DEC 64

ASSOCIATE-SPENT AFTERNOON WITH SAKER AT CUBAN EMB AND DOMEN

LIEMBRACES MEXI-2067 IN-50724 30 DEC 64

LNU LUCIO

CUBA HAVANA HAVANA APR 64

SUPERIOR PEREZ WORKS FOR LUCIO ILLEGAL DEPT CSCI 3/781,763 11 JUN 64

SANTIESTABAN CASANOVA

MEXICO CITY 20 JUL 73

SAKER ACCOMPANIED SANTIESTEBAN MEX CUBA

ODENVY HPMA 43312 13 AUG 73

ARHUG-1 DBA-18727 21 JUL 62

P 925 OTA 2947

SLIGOS OTA 2947

SLIGOS OTA 2947

SLIGOS OTA 2947

SLIGOS OCOW-6646 17 APR 64

VARIOUS

LIEMBRACES MEXI-2067 IN-50724 30 DEC 65

AMSICE-1 WAVE-8967 1N-56945

PASSPORT

TSD PASSPORT MACHINE RUN AUG 65 CB 311/00115-66 10 JAN 65

FORMER CUBAN IS OFFICER SERVED W CUBAN IS UMTIL APR 64 11 JUN 64

FORMER CUIS OFFICER SERVED W COHANIS UNTIL APR DA CSCI 3/781,763

FORMER CUIS OFFICER SERVED CUIS UMIIL APR LEA-05620 13 JAN 35

PASSPORT WMA 26340


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

28/08/75 PAGE 1963 SECRET/MOFORN 116781 MB 01 525
MB 01 437 EZ IMPDET CL BY 063729

L 65405 0 SISTER FRANCISCA SAKER ZENNI
L 00410 0 SISTER MORMA SAKER ZENNI
L 00409 0 SISTER GLADYS SAKER ZENNI.
L 00409 0 SISTER MARGOT SAKER ZENNI
L 00408 0 MOTHER SURALIA ZENNI
L 00407 0 FATHER CHAFIK RAFOUL. SAKER
L 00407 0 SON IVAN JUAN
L 00406 0 SON ROLANDO
L 00406 1 SON ROMERO
L 64406 F SCAR ON RIGHT TEMPLE
L 64406 E LINK/DE
L 99401 A BLA/BC/STRAIGHT
L 65401 C CUBA
L 65406 C CURA HAVANA
L 61406 DUC054619
L 6000$$?? DUC062168
L DUC005278
L 99401 C CUBA NAVARA

SKIN CAUCASIAN
MEDIUM/S/10 160

11 MAR 56 HAVANA
MAY 37 MADAMA
11 MAR 56 MADAMA

L 62401 J ZENNI
L 65402 J R.A.S.
L 65402 J PALMER
L 69401 J
L 70401 L

L A 99401 0 WIFE DORA RIVERA HERNANDEZ 06 JAN 38 MB 01 526
MB 03 466
L 64406 I PROTRUSING TEETH CONT.
L 70401 6 DIPT ATTACHE
L 62401 H EMBASSY CUBA LONDON
L 62401 6 DIFT
L 64404 H CUBA FORM MIN
L 68401 6 PIPI FIRST SECRETARY 66.
L 70401 6 DIPT FIRST SECRETARY DEC 70-AUG 73
L 70401 H EMBASSY CUBA MEXICO CITY
L 64404 H CUBA FORN MIN
L 64405 H CHUN
L 64405 6 ALBIPT INSPECTOR CONSULATES
L 64405 K OFFICER
L 64405 K CUTS
L 65405 K OFFICER
L 62401 K (CUIS)
L 62401 OFFICER
L 00406 KC
L 70401 L DGI CHIEF OF CENTER IN MEXICO

ILLEGAL DEPT

L 00A01 PLAYS JAPORTANT ROLE IN EMB ANO CORDOVA COORDINATES ACES WI
L 00A02 CLAIMED CUIS USING EVERY AVAILABLE DOLLAR TO PAY AGENTS
L 62401X CLAIMED CARRYING OVER US DOLL 100,000 TO PAY AGENTS US AND
L 64403 RECALLED HAVA SEP 62
L 64407 OFFERED PAY US 4000 DULLARS FOR INFO ON FOREIGN AGENTS INFI
L 64407 CUBA AND PLANS IN ASSASSINATE FUEL CASTRO PES 64
L 64403 JEWISH AFFERRANCE BUT NOT OF DESCENT OR RELIGION
L 00A0S REPORTED 6-2 MEMBER & FORMER STUDENT.. HAVA MILITARY ACADEMY
L 00A06 SOURCE AND PEREZ MET MEXI WENT OUT FOR HAIRCUT TOGETHER
L 00403 USA ISA PEQUEST BIGO CITY MES
L 00A0S OF FOUNDERS OF Desast FoliiON IN DET HAS UNK
L 00A0S USA HEW YORK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

## green
Jun 3127 X6

1. Charlie Murphey, DCS-Key,ble 4. Dist had call from SCD Ha. Fonden Cuesta. contistes DCS mem. I said she wants written response to Rew letter, Das menneither. she will get longer to make request if we donch comply.

2. I for letter written by den hery. DCS/AD decided as should red geant. & Del Ray W. Condinite & blue and longer in oac?

3. What should we do now. send out letter already prepared by L.T.
   re write.

Reported letter from AC/WAD and attitel Deste. left with Mary Muldoon 11 Jauk 75 for decision by C/CAD.

@ address DCS Charlie Muphy & ton them address Joch Hemery. 4/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

yun hubend hanen
asked fath agey
2 O'clock

X2268
Jack min.field
NyHenery office
1 cc- Castro
GC-Mc Doben


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

REMORANDUM
OF CALL

Chris

YOU WERE CALLED BY-
MURPHY

PLEASE CALL
WILL CALL AGAIN
RETURNED YOUR CALL

PHONE NO.
CODE/EXT. 2268

IS WANTING TO SEE YOU
WISHES AN APPOINTMENT

But pls call him
on GREEN 3124

RECEIVED
Owen 8/9/75 1150

STANDARD FORM 53
REVISED AUGUST 1967
63A FPMR (41 CFD 101-11.6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

FBI doc
7 oct 71 (Miami)
Re: Antonis Cuenta Valle

FBI doc
30 Mar 71 (Miami)
Re-Antonio Cuesta Valle


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

N. CRATI:all
WH COG/SA
1163/1325
27 JANUARY 1971

SECRETARI PANEL/

SECRET

FILE IN CE FILE NO.

C/RF/AN, O/CI, C/FI.2 DDP HWY CADO

SECRE AR 51971.
DOC MICRO.231371 01142

WH/MIAMI

R.O...

BYRAT TYPIC AMECRU AMDENIM

REF: WH/MIAMI-0125 (IN-248374)

1. SUGGEST LNERGO BE ADVISED JKLANCE HAS NO PRESENT OR FUTURE OPERATIONAL INTEREST ANDENIM-14 AND CAN NEITHER INFLUENCE NOR ASSIST ANY EFFORT OBTAIN RANSOM TO SVURT RELEASE. ANT PROPAGANDA VALUE RESULTING FROM CROFILMED RELEASE CONSIDERED HIGHLY UNLIKELY. LNERGO CERTAINLY FEB 1971 AWARE SEVERAL FORMER PRISONERS OF EQUAL STATURE RANSOMED CRO. SER. BY FAMILIES IN PAST TWO YEARS WITH LITTLE IF ANY PROPAGANDA MILEAGE GAINED FROM RELEASES.

2. SINCE LNERGO FULLY AWARE LNGOLD IS APPROPRIATE CHANNEL TO APPROACH FOR GUIDANCE AND ASSISTANCE IN CONDUCT OF SUCH DELICATE MATTER, HQS SUSPECTS RATHER TRANSPARENT APPROACH TO JKLANCE MOTIVATED BY POSSIBLE RUMORS IN EXILE COMMUNITY THAT JKLANCE PROVIDED RANSOM FOR AMEIGH-2 AND OTHERS.

3. ALTHOUGH HQS RECORDS FAIL REFLECT EXTENT LNERGO
   ES COPY

B201-061063

/CONTINUED/ 28 JAN 1971

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

PAGE 2

RELATIONSHIP WITH AMDENIM-14, HE OBVIOUSLY WAS VOLUNTARY
LNERGO INFORMANT FROM 62 UNTIL 65 WHEN HE WAS RECRUITED
BY LNMICA. LNMICA TERMINATED THE RELATIONSHIP 10 MAY 66,
SHORTLY BEFORE THE FATAL COMMANDOS L EXPEDITION WHICH
RESULTED IN AMDENIM-14'S CAPTURE 29 MAY 66.
FILE: 201-281313, 201-061093.

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

ACTION COPY

SECRET 222331Z JAN 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 0125

DIRECTOR

RYBAT TYPIC AMECRU

20 JAN 240374

1. LNERGO/MIAMI ADVISED STATION THAT:

A. CONFIDENTIAL NEGOTIATIONS HAVE BEEN INITIATED BY WIFE OF AMDENIM-14 WITH AMECRU-1, TO ATTEMPT RANSOM HUSBAND.

DR. MARTINIANO ORTA, A FRIEND OF AMDENIM-14'S, IS ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY WITH AMECRU-1 AND MET WITH HIM CIRCA 1 JAN 1971 IN MIAMI BEACH TO DISCUSS RANSOM TERMS.

B. RANSOM PRICE QUOTED BY AMECRU-1 WAS $50,000 AND HE WANTED ASSURANCE IN WRITING FROM WIFE OF AMDENIM-14 THAT SHE COULD RAISE THE MONEY. SHE GAVE ASSURANCE ALTHOUGH SAID PRIVATELY SHE HAD NO IDEA WHERE SUCH AN AMOUNT WOULD COME FROM.

C. AMECRU-1 WAS IN NEW YORK 9 JAN ON HIS WAY TO PARIS PRESUMABLY TO INITIATE NEGOTIATIONS.

D. LNERGO HAS A "HUMANITARIAN" INTEREST IN FREEING AMDENIM-14 AND ASKED FOLLOWING QUESTIONS INFORMALLY OF STATION:

(1) CAN JKLANCE SUBSCRIBE TO THIS RANSOM IN ANY AMOUNT?

(2) CAN JKLANCE INFLUENCE OR OTHERWISE ASSIST IN THIS RELEASE, I.E., GET PRICE REDUCED?

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 0125 SECRET

(3) CAN JKLANCE SUGGEST ANY SOURCES OF FUNDS FOR THIS PURPOSE OR ACT AS INTERMEDIARY IN OBTAINING SUCH FUNDS?

2. LNERGO/MIAMI COMMENTED THAT RELEASE OF AMDENIM-14 MIGHT BE ADVANTAGEOUS TO JKLANCE AS SOURCE OF INFORMATION (AND, POSSIBLY, AS OPERATIONAL AGENT) AS WELL AS BEING A PROPAGANDA VICTORY IN THE CUBAN COMMUNITY.

3. STATION WH/MIAMI HAS REMAINED NON-COMMITTAL RE THIS CASE AS WELL AS ENTIRE SUBJECT OF RANSOMING CASTRO PRISONERS. PLEASE ADVISE TACK HQS WISHES STATION TO TAKE WITH LNERGO CONCERNING ABOVE.

4. FILE: 201-281313; 201-061063. GP1.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

FIBI doc
27 Oct 69 (Miami)
Re - Antonis Cuesto Valle
Bureau #105-1795


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

634801 CUESTA VALLE ANTONIO 1.06 20

SUPPLEMENTARY PASTEN KO YH

![photo of a punched card with handwritten annotations]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

1. BI FILE NO.

2. DISPATCH ON SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO: 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO BI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

CUESTA (DFL) VALLE, ANTONIO
201-281313
SEX M DOB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
<CUBA, HAVANA

100-009-014
DAC -23A57
22 JUL 68
FBI

R 6901100852

FILE IN 201-281313

14. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET
FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS (7-68)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

FBI doc
10 May 68 (Miami)
Re-Antonis Cuesta Valle
(aka-Tony Cuesta)
Bureau #mm 105-1795

FBI doc
29 april 68 (Unami)
Re: Commandos L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

OGC 68-0374

5 March 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/COG

SUBJECT: James C. Wray

1.  I called Mr. James C. Wray today to determine his reason for having called the Agency on 27 February regarding Antonio CUESTA Del Valle's patent application. At that time Wray had stated that as a patent attorney he was representing CUESTA who had an application pending on which some $140 in fees was due.

2.  Wray advised that he had been retained by CUESTA several years ago to file an application concerned with a high speed boat on which a patent was ready to issue upon payment of $140 in filing fees. He stated further that as a consequence of CUESTA's subsequent capture he had been unable to communicate with him and that he had failed in his efforts to interest CUESTA's friends in assuming responsibility for the fees. Wray readily accepted my representations that the Agency had no responsibility in the matter. According to him, he had called us merely as a matter of last resort.

3.  I found Wray's description of the boat's configuration and attributes to be interesting. While emphasizing that we had no re- sponsibility for his client's present situation or for his fees, I suggested that he might want to provide me with the boat's specifications. Wray accepted this suggestion. My thought here was that an item of this nature might be of interest to SOD/Maritime Branch.

![signature of ROBERT. BLADERGROEN]
ROBERT. BLADERGROEN
Assistant General Counsel

cc: Mr. George Laúnar (C3)

SECRET

201-281313


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SEAUER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICA W TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

# OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | Nancy Groty      |      | my       |
| 2   |                  |      |          |
| 3   |                  |      |          |
| 4   |                  |      |          |
| 5   |                  |      |          |
| 6   |                  |      |          |

|  | ACTION | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY |
|  | APPROVAL | DISPATCH | RECOMMENDATION |
|  | COMMENT | FILE | RETURN |
|  | CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION | SIGNATURE |

Remarks:

After much jegging and jagging, we agreed it would be desirable to return call as a matter of courtesy. Please ask OGC to do so - denying any knowledge of the matter.

Mr. Bladengroen called & I will handle matter 3/4/68

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

![Signature]

DATE

3/4/68

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM NO. 237 the previous editions
1-67
(40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# INCIDENT REPORT

## BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

DATE 21 February 1968

TIME 1520 Hours

NAME James C. Wray GRADE N/A OFFICE N/A

Hirsey Building, Room 1204

1329 "E" St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

Phone: NA 8-5555

INCIDENT Request for assistance TIME 1520 Hours PLACE Headquarters

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION:

At 1520 hours, Mr. James C. WRAY called identifying himself as a Patent Attorney and requested someone contact him concerning Mr. Anthony CUESTA. Mr. Cuesta, according to Mr. Wray, filed a patent application, $472,763, on 19 July 1965, for a high speed boat with a flexible hull. Mr. Wray stated that after filing, Mr. Cuesta left the United States and is now in a Cuban prison. Mr. Wray stated the reason he called is that he wants the Agency to either pay $145.00 for the patent issue fee as the deadline is 10 April 1968, or talk to the Patent Office. Advised Mr. Wray that a report would be made of his call.

(201-281313)

Security dismissed with OGC (Bladergroan) and

WH/CUE/EXO. Agreed no response desired.

3/1/68

WH/Security/Hannah called and said OS recommends return telecom. WHICOG will also ask Bladergroan to handle.

ACTION TAKEN:

A check in SR & CD was negative re Mr. Wray but two files, 242 095 and 530 946, were found on Mr. Cuesta.

![signature of chief of building security branch, Robert D. Buckley]

REPORTING OFFICER

William E. Craig

CHIEF, BUILDING SECURITY BRANCH

ROBERT D. BUCKLEY

DISTRIBUTION:

ORIG: DD/SEC (PTOS)

COPY: C/PHY. SD

COPY: C/PSD

FILE: BSB/PHYS. SD

COPY:

![form 9-67 1798 editions]

CONFIDENTIAL

![number 30]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

1.  Filing & collection, isolate base leg
2.  Survey and recover short, isolate records & prioritize isolate or comments as required by preservation.

FROM: EDICL

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILE IN SECTION BRANCH, IF APPROPRIATE
CORPSNAME

| ..  | TO       | CODE NO. | DATE RECORDED | DATE PROCESSED | OF  |
| --- | -------- | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | --- |
| 1.  | Dincoo/f |          | 22 JUE57      |                | Wa  |
| 2.  | WH/C/CY  |          | 27 JUE57      |                | MR  |
| 3.  |          | MC       |               | 28 JUL57       | qL  |
| 4.  |          | CL       |               |                | K   |
| 5.  | BED/fl   |          |               |                |     |
| 6.  | WH/C/A   |          |               |                |     |
| 7.  | WH/C/FL  |          |               |                |     |

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP
The following action is
authorized:

8. 
9. 
10. Sign:
11. Note: Instruction, cite reasons and coordinate if appropriate.
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. 
18. 
PROCESSING DEFERRED
PLEASE INDICATE ACTION
Destroy. Records Officer Stamp and Signature Required.
Route to RID/DU, RI-9-660
Classify to 201-281313.
(CS File Number) 1-D-47
Route to RID/IR, RI-9-653
for final processing..

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | INDEX |
| ------------- | -------- | ----- |

FILE TITLE: 201-821216

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE): 231-281/1.3.

DOCUMENT DATE: 19 JUE 67

DOCUMENT NUMBER: UFGA 27020


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# DISPATCH

## KAPOK/SECRET

Chief, SN Division

From: Chief of Station, JHWAVE
TYPIC/Operational
CUIS Recruitment of IDENTITY

1. On 8 and 13 June 1967 the local LNERGO officer who is handling the IDENTITY case informed a JHWAVE officer that she had been recruited by the CUIS on her recent visit to Cuba. LNERGO requests that the know- ledge of this information be kept to a minimum, for they intend to operate her as a double agent. LNERGO does not intend to disseminate any information on the case, at this time; however, the following information was provided so that JHWAVE could furnish LNERGO with traces and comments:.

A. IDENTITY received permission from U.S. and Cuban authorities to travel to Cuba to visit her in- prisoned husband. She arrived in Cuba on 7 April 1967 and (fnu) INFANTE of the MININT met her at the airport. In general, INFANTE was her escort; however, she also had to keep Tita (lnu) at telephone number 30-2056 informed of her movements. Enrique ECHEVARRIA was also assigned to IDENTITY's case and she thought possibly that he was INFANTE's superior officer. She described ECHEVARRIA as a DSE officer who had formerly been in the U.B. and who had some type of a back ailment.

Attachment: UDC

IDENTITY

Distribution:

3- WH/CCO w/att. U/S/C

/continued/

DATE TYPED

16 Jun 67

DATE DISPATCHED

JUN 19 1967

UFGA-27020

## KAPOK/SECRET

201-301313


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# CONTINUATION OF DISPAICH

KAPOK/SECRET 1706-27820 page 2

B. Oscar HERNANDEZ was in charge of her husband's case and Paul ALFONSO was his assistant. IDENTITY said that her husband was formally kept at the Cargo Libertad Hospital, not at the main building, but at a small building on the hospital grounds. She visited him frequently at the hospital and on one occasion they met in an office at the Villa Marista Detention Center. This office had telephone numbers 40-3535 and 40-3536.

C. On 13 April INFANTE made the recruitment pitch to IDENTITY. He said the pitch was on behalf of the DSE and would benefit her and her husband. He said if she would successfully report on anti-Castro activities in Miami, and especially activities of the Commando L, for a period of six months they would release her husband from custody; and after three years of reporting they would grant him permission to depart from Cuba. She said that she certainly wanted to help her husband; however, she did not have any information regarding her husband's activities nor information about anti-Castro activities in Miami. INFANTE instructed her to just do her best and he thought everything would work out all right.

D. For the next few days, INFANTE debriefed her on her family, friends, work, etc.

E. From 20 thru 23 April she was picked-up daily by INFANTE and taken to a safehouse in the Mariano district of Havana for training. Somewhere along the route, they would stop and pick-up the instructor, Pascual (LNU). Pascual gave IDENTITY training in document photography, development, and techniques in the collection of information. She was instructed in the use of a single lens reflex camera and although she claimed to have done very poorly, Pascual assured her, that with more practice, she would do OK. He told her to purchase a camera and two goose neck table lamps with 100 watt bulbs on her return to Miami and practice until she became proficient.

F. IDENTITY was instructed to print or typewrite (using all uppercase letters) her reports as she obtained the information, hold then and every fifteen days photograph then, develop the film, destroy the reports, and hold the negatives. Every six months she would take all of the negatives to New York and deliver them to Chafik Homero SAKER Zonni (201-335014) at the Cuban U.N. Mission: Her first assigned meeting with BAKER was scheduled for any work day between 28 September and 2 October 1967.

G. IDENTITY was told that she would have no further contacts with the DSE in Cuba, but should she have any serious trouble, she could write to:

"Rafaela Domenech S.
Avenida 41 # 6011
Ent. 68 y 70 Coiba,
Marianao, Havana, Cuba"

She was told to make up a false name and return address and sign the letter with the first name used in the return address. She did not receive a code name, was told nothing about EW, was not promised money, nor expenses, and was not given any further information or training.

/continued/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH KAPOK'SECRET LTCA-27820 page 3

2. Possible JLEAVE traces on the above are as follows:
   A. Havana telephone number 30-2056.

(a) Number listed to Ma Antonieta MARRERO; 8 No. 10 Vedado. (1965 Havana Telephone Directory)

(b) Lt. (fau) MARRERO was listed as a DSE member assigned to Villa Marista and in charge of prisoners. (UFGA-26564, 30 Dec 66)

B. Avenida 41 # 6811. Address listed to Pedro Raul RODRIGUEZ. (1962 Havana Address Book)

C. Omar HERNANDEZ.

(a) Omar HERNANDEZ name appeared on list of Cuban G-2 agents and/or Cuban officials involved in the Revolutionary Trials in La Cabana from 18 April 1960 through 25 August 1961. (UFGA-03228, 6 Feb 62)

(b) Omar HERNANDEZ was identified as a Communist and a G-2 agent in Havana who infiltrated anti-Castro groups. (UTGA-03492, 13 March 62)

(c) Lt. Omar HERNANDEZ was identified as a DSE interrogator at Villa Marista. (UFGA-24423, 8 Feb 66)

(d) Omar HERNANDEZ was described as a DSE agent who has acted as an investigator in several trials acted on by the Cuban Revolutionary Courts. (UFGA-25012, 25 April 66)

D. Raul ALFONSO was described as a DSE interrogator stationed at Villa Marista. (UFGA-27168 AO1, 16 March 67)

John H. EARMIDRIER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CONTINUATION OF DESPATCH
# RAPOK SECRET
KEA-27820 page 4
INSTRUCTIONS: 1= "ALLOUT" char 201. 8 number edited.

## IDENTITY

SURNAME
DATE OF BIRTH
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES-STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION


SURNAME

## INFANTE
GIVEN NAME

201-

DATE OF BIRTH
Inu
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
SEX
M
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
RESIDENCE

Cuba
MINIST/IES
OTHER NAMES-STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)
Cuba
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION


SURNAME
GIVEN NAME
MIDDLE NAME
201-

3 SCHEVARRIA
Enrique
DATE OF BIRTH
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
SEX
M
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
RESIDENCE

Cuban
MINIST/IES
OTHER NAMES-STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

Has formerly been in U.S. Has some type of a back ailment.

SURNAME
GIVEN NAME
MIDDLE NAME
201-

4 Havana Telephone No:
DATE OF BIRTH
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
SEX
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES-STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
-2456-

SURNAME
GIVEN NAME
MIDDLE NAME
201-

5 HERNANDEZ
Omar
DATE OF BIRTH
COUNTRY OF BIRTH
CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
SEX
CITIZENSHIP
OCCUPATION
RESIDENCE

Cuba
out Comandante
OTHER NAMES-STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

Form 61d.
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
CLASSIFICATION
KAPOK
SECRET
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

INSTRUCTIONS: "ACTION" the TIL # suited

201-

40-5535

ivana Telephone No. 40-5535

OCCUPATION: VICT/M

40-3535

Bo. at Villa Karista Detention Center.

ivana Telephone No. 40-3536

201-

40-3536

Bo at Villa Karista Detention Center

201-

(LTU) F Pancual

OCCUPATION: Intelligence

TD instructor

201- 335014

JAKER Zonn Chafik Homoro

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

FORM 53d

KATOR
SECRET

[X] CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

A A P O K
S E C R E T
1761-27920
INSTRUCTIONS: Use "ASSIGN" dater & number needed.
1 SURNAME L Befora GIVEN NAME Benech S. MIDDLE NAME 201-
SEX DATE OF BIRTH COUNTRY OF BIRTH CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP OCCUPATION MINIST/DCB Letter Cosp RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES - STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Avenida 41 #5811
Ent. 68 y 70, Celba
Marianao, Havana, Cuba
2 SURNAME GIVEN NAME MIDDLE NAME 201-
SEX DATE OF BIRTH COUNTRY OF BIRTH CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP OCCUPATION RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES - STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
3 SURNAME GIVEN NAME MIDDLE NAME 201-
SEX DATE OF BIRTH COUNTRY OF BIRTH CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP OCCUPATION RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES - STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
4 SURNAME GIVEN NAME MIDDLE NAME -201-
SEX DATE OF BIRTH COUNTRY OF BIRTH CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP OCCUPATION RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES - STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
5 SURNAME GIVEN NAME MIDDLE NAME -103
SEX DATE OF BIRTH COUNTRY OF BIRTH CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
CITIZENSHIP OCCUPATION RESIDENCE
OTHER NAMES - STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDEN)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
FORM 53J OBSOLETE PREVIOUS CLASSIFICATIO
201-821216
10-66 EDITIONS KAPOK □ CONTINUED PASTNS
S E C R E T 00


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

KAPOK/SECRET Itt. to 1731-27820

IDENTITY

Maria Lourdes BLANCO Diez de Cuest (001-821816)

![image]

JULI 19 1967

![image]

FORM 53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION

CLASSIFICATION

KAPOK/SECRET CONTINUED

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# INFORMATION REPORTESINFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U. S. C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY
Cuba
REPORT NO.
00-K-323/16570-67
SUBJECT
Treatment of Antonio Cuesta Valle, Political Prisoner of the OOC
DATE DISTR
9 Jun 67
NO. PAGES
2
REFERENCES
(356)
LA CIRL C-DC7-53338

![signature]

DATE OF INFO. 17 May 67
PLACE & DATE ACQ. ---17 May 67

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE
Honduran national, US resident, executive of a foreign airline. Through travels and contacts he keeps in touch with events occurring in foreign countries.

(This report was developed by an Air Force AFHIN representative assigned to the office of preparation.)

1.  My secretary recently returned from a 17-day visit to Havana, Cuba. Through conversation, with her, I learned of her visit and permission to visit her husband, Antonio Cuesta Valle, a political prisoner of the Cuban government.

2.  Cuesta, who was active in an anti-GOC movement, was taken prisoner on 29 May 66 in company of four other men, while on an infiltration mission. While trying to escape he supposedly blew up his boat and as a result of the explosion he lost his left hand at the wrist. He was captured along with Eugenio Saldivar Cadena, and both are presently held prisoners at the Military Hospital in Marianao, Havana.

3.  While in Havana she was permitted, on a daily basis, to visit with her husband in his hospital cell. She was permitted to visit alone with him on one occasion in a room that had several mirrors and for a period of approximately 15 minutes. The remainder of her visits were in the presence of her assigned escort or the guard assigned to her husband's ward. She knew her escort as "Infante," and he was always dressed in civilian clothes. He was most polite and courteous at all times. She was told what hours she could visit her husband by phone each specific day, and her escort would pick her up and take her to the hospital.

4.  I was told that her husband has been given the best treatment available and that he had no complaints in that respect. He is suffering from advanced active cataracts and is almost blind. He has been treated by two Soviet doctors, but due to the language barrier proper treatment was not administered and the Soviets became very angry at the nurses at the hospital. Considering his background he is being treated like a VIP. He was told that a Cuban specialist is going to take his case in the near future. He said that his food is very good and generous servings are the order of the day. By direct order of Fidel he is furnished a box of the best cigars, and they are replenished each time the box becomes empty. During a Sunday afternoon he and his wife were taken to the beach, complete with a picnic lunch, in company of four guards that kept a distance of about 100 feet.

![Information about the document]

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

3-201-2813/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 00-8-323/16570-67

- 2 -

5.  He has not been formally charged and she was told that because of his condition a date could not be set. However, she was told not to vorry bicause Fidei van would be post lenient with his case. She vas also told that as far as the Cuban govermect vas concerned she could visit with his again at any time in the future.

6.  She stayed with family members of her husband and vas permitted to go anywhere she liked when not visiting her husband, but because of fear she stayed in ber quarters.

-end-


MAR 2 7 69

69.23
55


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION: GirlIkas &

INFO: FILE, UNG WH8, cai calops, alicz, F. FLINTZ

SECRET 071945Z CITE WAVE 6475

DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY

TYPIC

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 74423 (NOT SENT MEXICO)

1. FYI: AMOTS AND AMCLEVE-15 HAVE REPORTED LOURDES BLANCO DE CUESTA, WIFE OF TONY CUESTA, DEPARTED MIAMI FOR MEXICO CITY 2 APRIL, PLANS LEAVE FOR HAVANA 7 APRIL FOR TWO WEEK VISIT WITH HUSBAND.

2. FYI. IN NOVEMBER 1966 LOCAL ACSI INFORMED STATION OF BLANCO PLANS TO GO CUBA AND VISIT IMPRISONED HUSBAND WHO FORMERLY ACSI SD 6836. ACSI SAID SHE HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH CHAFIK HOMERO SAKER ZENNI OF NEW YORK CUBAN UN MISSION. ACSI ASKED IF STATION WANTED TO PURSUE AS OPS LEAD. STATION DECLINED OFFER AND SUGGESTED ACSI INFORM FBI. FBI WAS INFORMED AND THEY HAVE BEEN MONITORING CASE.

SECRET

SECRET

antonio de la Curla Valle, 28 1313

201-281313
7 april 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

DIA doc

20 May 66

Subject - Withdrawal of U.S. Army Proposal-Cuba

![Document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

SD 15413 ILLAS GONZALEZ, Francisco (201-783822)

Subject was terminated without prejudice by ACSI on 17 January 1966

File: 7/DC/8-66

Lt. Cl. Fanis 4/25/66
Chat SD 15413 and SP 15410

28 Apr 66: ACSI requested reinstatment of SD-15413 and SD-15410.

Rimsted 28 apr 66.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION               |                  |                  |               |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------- |
| 2. BI FILE NO.                  | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE          |                  |               |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                     | 7. SOURCE CRYPTO | 8. DATE OF INFO. | 9. EVALUATION |
| 10. DISSEMINATED TO             | 11. DATE                              |                  |                  |               |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                  | 13. TRANSFER TO  |                  |               |
| THIS FILE NO.                   |                                       |                  |                  |               |

PERTINENT INFORMATION:

CUESTA (DEL) VALLE, ANTONIO
201-281313
SEX M DOB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
MEMBER OF THE PUERTO RICO GROUP OF
COMANDOS L. OF INTEREST TO WESTERN
INTELL.

019-002-012
UFGA-25032
02 MAY 66
+19-2-4-7
P2

R 6605170628

16. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-281313

![form 867 or previous editions logo] 867

SECRET

(7-68)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

Cuesta, Antonio Valle

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FILE NO.

SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

DATE

SOURCE CRYPTO DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

23 Jan 61

DISSEMINATED

DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRED TO
FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Joe Piccolo

IS A RESTRICTED CI/OA FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201 FIELD UNDER C: 90118.

wh/4

8565

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

file


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

7 April 1966

FOR DETAILS OF COORDINATION, PLEASE SEE: F/DC/8-66

File in: 201-281313

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECKET

OGC 66-0119

19 JAN 1966

Honorable J. Walker Yeagley
Assistant Attorney General
Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

Dear Mr. Yeagley:

By letter of 5 January 1966, you advised test the Department is contemplating prosecutive action against certain individuels involved in the hit-and-run raid conducted in the Havana Harbor area in November 1965. In this connection, you requested our comments relative to any past or current interest this Agency might have had or has in Antonio CUESTA Del Valle and whether disclosure of that interest in the event of prosecution would be detrimental to its operations. In addition, you also requested to be advised whether this Agency has or over had an operational interest in Jorge MAS Canosa or his anti-Castro organi-sation, the Cuban Representation In Exile (RECE).

This Agency has no present operational interest in CUESTA or MAS, although it did have in times past. We do not believe that disacio-sure of those past interests would have any serious consequences for the Agency.

For your information, with 303 Committee approval, this Agency does have a relationship with the RECE pursuant to which limited financial support is provided for the maintenance of its Miami office. While MAS should not be knowledgeable of this fact, any statements he might munke should not affect our relationship with that organisation.

Sincerely,

SIGNER

Lawrenes R. Houston
General Counsel

cc: Thomas Flores
Donald Huefner,

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

CCFL SITIAL

MC Jan. 14, 1966

1. Xr. Bladergroen of (GC phoned on 12 January. After checking back with Dept. of Justice he learned that latter is in contact with Army concerning Cuesta. He suggested I not tell army this but tell them that Justice has an interest in the man.

2. This daten I called Maykovich who was well aware of the Justice interest. He said that Justice was now waiting for an assessment of the man by Army.

D. Huefner


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

REGISTRATION REQUEST

NAME
CUESTA VALLE, Antonio

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATIONS

DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP

PRESENT ADDRESS

PRESENT EMPLOYMENT OCCUPATION

TRAVEL

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT IDENTIFYING DATA

Terminated without prejudice 10 May 1966

SUBJECT would not submit to control.

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE
ITEM NO. 1979
DATE
201 NO. 281313

DOWNGRADED AT 18-YEAR INTERVAL
CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

DISSEM BY Z6

FILE UR, DCI, DIACI, DCI(MORAN), DAP, ADDP, CSIRE, CSIDO, CI, CILOPS, FI, CILOA, CAZ, CA/PROP

SECRET 302315Z CITE JMWAVE 1209

PRIORITY DIRECTOR

NO NIACT

TYPIC PBRAMPART

REFERENCE: JMWAVE 1208 (IN06931)

1. FOLLOWING FILE INFO SUPPLEMENTS REF.

A. NO INDICATION JMWAVE FILES THAT OTHER THAN GUILLERMO ALVAREZ GONZALEZ ANY OF PERSONS MENTIONED HAVE EVER BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH KUBARK. ONLY POSSIBLE TRACE RE GUILLERMO ALVAREZ GONZALEZ IS UNDATED CARD CIT-ING 201-301881, STATION SUBJECT ON "FRD" PAYROLL, POA NOT REQUESTED.

B. GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES, LATER IDENTIFIED AS CUESTA, ROMER, FERNANDEZ ANTA, DIAZ, ZALDIZAR, EXERCISING WITH SEABIRD BEARING REGISTRATION FL-8509-F, WERE SPOTTED BY WAVE OFFICER IN FLAMINGO KEY AREA ON 18 APRIL 66. SINCE CUESTA KNOWN AS ACSI AGENT, CHECK MADE WITH LOCAL CSI, WHICH REPLIED THAT CUESTA STILL BEING USED BUT ACTIVITY IN QUESTION NOT SPONSORED BY ACSI.

C. SEE ATTACHMENT TO FI/DEPARTMENTAL COORDIN-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

PAGE2 JMWAVE 1239 SECRET

SECRET

ATION GROUP MEMO DATED 11 APRIL 66 (POUCHED TO JMWAVE
WITHOUT MANIFEST). ATTACHMENT, DATED 5 APRIL 66, CON-
CERNS COORDINATION OF ACSI OP INTO CUBA INVOLVING USE
OF ANTONIO CUESTA, CRAFT OWNED BY HIM, AND NINE OTHER
EXILES ASSOCIATED WITH COMMANDOS L AND ALPHA 66.

2. ON 16 MAY, AFTER RECEIVING INFO INDICATING
   CUESTA AND COMMANDOS L PLANNING SOME FORM OF OP INTO
   CUBA OR HAITI, COS JMWAVE QUERIED CHIEF LOCAL ACSI DET
   RE STATUS OF CUESTA. ACSI CHIEF STATED CUESTA IN PRO-
   CESS OF BEING TERMINATED.

3. UPON RECEIPT REF INFO COS JMWAVE CHECKED BY
   TELEPHONE WITH CHIEF LOCAL ACSI CONCERNING ALL PERSONS
   MENTIONED REF. LOCAL ACSI CHIEF STATED FOLLOWING:

A. CUESTA TERMINATED BY ACSI MORNING 25 MAY.

B. ON 19 APRIL LOCAL ACSI "ESTABLISHED
INTEREST" IN ALVAREZ, FERNANDEZ ANTA AND ZALDIZAR BUT
THIS STILL PENDING, NAMELY, THEY HAVE NOT HEARD FROM
ACSI HQS RE THEIR REQUEST.

C. ROMER AND DIAZ NEVER OF OPS INTEREST

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

PAGE 3 JMWAVE 1279 SECRET

TO LOCAL ACSI ALTHO THEY KNOWN TO ACSI AS SOMETIME PEMBERS
CF BOAT CREW HEADED BY ENRIQUE GONZALEZ (PERSON INVOLVED
IN NORTORICUS BAHAMAS INCIDENT OF APRIL 66)

4. WHILE IMPOSSIBLE PREDICT CUBAN REACTION BELIEVE
   THEY MAY CHARGE THAT 29-33 MAY INCIDENT WAS OPERATION
   BY U.S. ARMY AND PRESENT INFO FROM CAPTURED PERSONNEL AS
   SUBSTANTIATING THEIR CLAIM. IT CLEAR THAT ACSI HAS BEEN
   IN CONTACT WITH CUESTA AND THRU HIM WITH VARIOUS COMMANDOS
   L-ALPHA 66 PERSONALITIES SINCE AT LEAST 65, PROBABLY
   EARLIER. CUESTA ASSOCIATION WITH ACSI VIDELY KNOWN IN
   LOCAL EXILE AND ODYOKE CIRCLES. ALSO POSSIBLE THAT
   CUBANS WILL CHOOSE TO CHARGE THAT OP WAS DIRECTLY SPON-
   SORED OR MASTERMINDED BY KUBARK. IT WOULD APPEAR
   UNLIKELY THAT CUBANS CAN PRODUCE ANY PLAUSIBLE EVIDENCE
   LINKING INCIDENT PARTICIPANTS WITH KUBARK.

SECRET *Reported a clash at sea between a Cuban exile group and
the Cuban Armed Forces.

BT

NNNN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

FBI doc
13 Dec '65 (Miami)
Re- Representacion Cubana del
Exilis (RECE)

FBI doc
19 Nov '65
Re- Representacion Cubana del
Exilis (RECE)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET

JLAVE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

RID COPY ( COPY ISSUED TO CS/DO AT 2358 21 CCT (1))

SOO 4, CI, CLIPS, WM 8, CS/RF. D/OCT 2, D/OXE.

22 OCT 05 03072 IN 75044

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR CITE WAVE 6751

INTEL TYPIC

UPDATA: AMMED-16, 21 OCTOBER 1965. INFO WAS PASSED TO SWAN K. SCHWAMBORN (P) BY PETER QUAROTTI (P) MARI BRANCH CREW MENSER WHO RECEIVED INFO FROM AMMED-16. NOTE GUESTA IS ACSI SCURCE NO. 232.

FIELD COMMENT BASED UFG 7574. NO INDEX FILED 220012

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM CUBA

SUBJECT: PLANS OF COMANDOS L FOR ATTACK AGAINST CUBA

21 OCTOBER 1965

UPADA: UNITED STATES, MAIMI (21 OCTOBER 1965) UFG 7645

SOURCE: A CUBAN EMIGRE WHO IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH CUSAN EMIGRE

TIME MATTERS IN THE MIAMI AREA. HE IS CONSIDERED TO BE A RELIABLE REPORTER.

COMMENT:

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED TO PORTION OF CABLE HAS BEEN MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.

TDCS

DATE DISTRIBUTED

ROUTINE BASED ON

LIAISON

PRIORITY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

CUNTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

TDCS

DATE OF INFO.

DISTIL

SUBJECT

PLACE & DATE ACQ.

REF.

IN 78044

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL

1. ON OR ABOUT 25 OCTOBER 1965 ANTONIO CUESTA DEL VALLE, CHIEF OF MILITARY OPERATIONS OF THE COMANDOS L, A MILITANT CUBAN EMIGRE ORGANIZATION, PLANS TO LEAVE FLORIDA FOR CUBA WITH A GROUP TO CONDUCT AN OPERATION AGAINST CUBA. THE PURPOSE OF THE ACTION IS TO DISRUPT THE MOVEMENT OF CUBAN REFUGEES FROM CUBA TO THE UNITED STATES, BECAUSE CUESTA FEELS THAT THIS EMIGRATION IS AN INDICATION THAT THE UNITED STATES IS MOVING TOWARD A POLICY OF COEXISTENCE WITH FIDEL CASTRO RUZ..

2. CUESTA WAS SOLICITING MONEY IN MIAMI ON 21 OCTOBER TO

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

STATE/DIR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AR ICS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCH ORR OO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

FINANCE THIS OPERATION. CUESTA OWNS A GASOLINE STATION ON 12TH AVENUE, HIALEAH, MIAMI, FLORIDA. HE OWNS A 95-FOOT BOAT.

3. (FIELD COMMENT. A RECENT REPORT FROM AN INDEPENDENT SOURCE, REPORTED THAT CUESTA WAS A LEADER OF A GROUP OF 13 MEMBERS OF COMANDOS L WHICH WAS SCHEDULED TO LEAVE MIAMI FOR PUERTO RICO ON 18 OCTOBER.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF STATE, FBI, 1&NS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, USCG, US ARMY

FIELD APPRAISAL DETACHMENT 1.

> [Figure: A hand-drawn shape]

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back cap and tab.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM: >

RID/AI

TO ACTION BRANCH

If file in and note the above, see that proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

|           | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS     |                  |     |
| --------- | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------- | --- |
| 1.        |          |               |                | MFEBUSON Copy DETRched |                  |     |
| WHSAESC   |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 2.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 3.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| UN/SA/RST |          |               | 23th@          |                        | CSDB -312/009786 |     |
| 4.        |          |               |                |                        | 23 Feb 65        |     |
| 5.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 6.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 7.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 8.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 9.        |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 10.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 11.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 12.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 13.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 14.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 15.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 16.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| 17.       |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |
| RID/FI    |          |               |                |                        |                  |     |

MICROFILMED
FEB 16 1965

DOC. MICRO. SER.

|     | TRACE REQUEST    | ABSTRACT INDEX | FILE TITLE                            |                           |
| --- | ---------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------------- |
|     |                  | ![check mark]  | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) 201-281313 |                           |
|     | DATE MICROFILMED |                | DOCUMENT DATE 10 Feb 1965             | DOCUMENT NUMBER UFG 06676 |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# REPORT COVER SHEET

SECRET

FROM

JMWAVE

DATE OF REPORT

10 February 1965

REPORTING OFFICER

James D. TATTERSFIELD

REPORTS OFFICER

Margaret R. NANKALLuta

APPROVING OFFICER

Andrew K. REUTEMAN

BACKGROUND DATA AND COMMENTS:

TYPIC

Source: AMDECK-1 from Luis Diaz, a friend who joined Comandos L in 1963.

RID: Please index.

Group 1: Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification

![Microfilmed on Feb 16 1965, Doc. Micro. Ser.]

![Reports on Feb 11 1965]

OPTIONAL: ENTRIES BELOW NEED NOT BE FILLED IN IF DUPLICATED IN ACCOMPANYING REPORT

| INTRA-AGENCY            | DISTRIBUTION | EXTRA-AGENCY                  |
| ----------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------- |
| 4 - Hqs                 |              | 1 cy. each to Miami reps. of: |
| 1 - OO/C                |              | State, F.B.I., I&NS           |
| 2 - Santo Domingo       |              |                               |
| 2 - JMBARR              |              |                               |
| 2 - Panama (for CINCSO) |              |                               |

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REFERENCES

PADA

APPR

SECRET

DOI

CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba/Dominican Republic

SUBJECT Attempts of Antonio Cuesta del
Vallo of Comandos L to
Establish a Training Camp in
Puerto Rico or the Dominican
Republic

DATE OF 3 February 1965
INFO
PLACE & United States, Miani
DATE ACQ(5 February 1965)

REPORT NO

DATE OF REPCO February 1965

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

UFO-6676

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFTOL. APPAGAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE:
A Cuban exile with good access to activities of exile activist
groups. His reporting on raider activities has been generally
reliable since 1963. This information was obtained from Luis
Dias.

201-281313

1. According to Luis Diaz, a member of Comandos t, a militant Cuban
   exile organization, Antoniof Cuesta del Valle has been in Puerto
   Rico for several months attempting to set up a camp there for
   training Cuban exiles. He has also been attempting to obtain
   pornission from the Dominican Republic to use the Dominican
   camp which was used by Kloy Gutierrez Monoyo, a military leader
   of the Segundo Frente Nacional del Escambray (SFNE, Second
   National Front of the Escambray), and has been making regular
   trips to the Dominican Republic from Puerto Rico for that purpose.

2. On 3 February 1965, Ramon Font Saumell, second in command of
   Comandos L, told Diaz that the recent accusations made against
   the top Dominican military personnel by Gutierrez after his
   capture in Cuba in January had jeopardized his organization's
   good relations with the Dominican Government.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN

DISTRIBUTION

GROUP I
Excluded from aviomalia
downgrading and
declassification

201-281313


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

1. RI FILE NO.

2. DATE

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM

8. DATE OF INFO.

9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED TO

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. 
PERTINENT INFORMATION

CUESTA DEL VALLE, ANTONIO
201-281313
SEX M DOB ?

019-300-003
UFG-06214
17 NOV 64
WAVE-04911
P1

CIT ?
OCC ?
RECRUITING. MEN FOR CLOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO'S
CAMP IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

R 6501053230

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM
S-59 C67 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(9-66)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)