# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, Sov Bloc Div; Chief, Far East Division

INFO:
Chief, WOMUSE/ICG

FROM:
Chief of Station, Tokyo

SUBJECT:
RYBAT (MHPASHA REDTOP - Beheiren and the Four U.S. Navy Deserters

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:
(TOKYO) 7263

18-3

As noted in reference, forwarded herewith is a copy of the subject memorandum. Please note that the information in the memorandum Paragraph B. 4. b) is particularly sensitive and should only be given properly restricted dissemination.

![signature of Mark J. LIDGERWOOL]

Mark J. LIDGERWOOL

ATTACHMENT
Memo dtd 27 Nov 67

Distribution

2 - C/SB Div w/1 cy attach

1 - C/FE w/1 cy attach

1 - C/WOMUSE/ICG w/1 attach

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
Conducted On 16-10-76

E/2 IMPDET CL BY 060595

![image of CS COPY stamp]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

FJTA-53626

DATE
DEC 6 1967

CLASSIFICATION

![image of SECRET TRYBAR stamp]

HQS FILE NUMBER
UNKNOWN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

3.  Respectable Intellectual Front: Following fundamental Communist principles for mass movement work (better than the JCP itself follows these tenets), the ex-JCP organizers of BEHEIREN kept themselves in the background and lined up a number of prominent Japanese progressive intellectuals and leftist cultured persons to front for BEHEIREN. The choice of ODA Makoto, ex-Fulbrighter and popular young novelist, to be the chief front man - Chairman - was an extremely lucky stroke for BEHEIREN. ODA has taken to this grand-standing, front work like a duck to water. It has given him a chance to give unbridled vent to his own latent anti-American foolings, puffed him up to the extent that he has been dubbed "the emperor" by other BEHEIREN activists, and given him at long last an ideological mission to pursue. YOSHIKAWA has performed magnificently in feeding ODA's ego needs and in infusing and indoctrinating ODA so that his words and actions take on sufficiently virulent anti-American overtones. ODA has served another vital function for BEHEIREN by recruiting a sizeable number of fellow intellectuals to join the ranks of BEREIREN activists. (Attachment 1 is a listing of a number of those Japanese who have been identified as active BEHEIREN supporters or sympathizers.)

4.  Organizational Development: In its 2 1/2 year history, BEREIREN has not appreciably changed its organizational format, although it has moved its office three times and modified its name even oftener. PEHEIREN is not a "pass organization", because it has had no sizeable popular backing to the present time. Its hard core, secretariat organization is run by YOSHIKAWA and his lieutenants. Its public image, intellectual front is led by ODA, and given body by a score of like-minded intellectual friends of ODA and YOSHIKAWA, who form the loose body of BEHEIREN's activist leadership. Under this BENEIREN leadership superstructure lies a paltry base of only several hundred BEHEIREN "rank-and-file" supporters, mostly young Japanese students. Organizationally, EEHEIREN has no formal membership system, so its base of supporters is fluid and not precisely measurable. However, the base support for BEHEIREN has definitely been on the upswing during 1967, and made such notable strides during the past summer that JCP Headquarters officials finally felt constrained to note with concern that BEHEIREN was beginning to drain off a growing number of progressive youth who otherwise would have been absorbed into the JCP's own youth movement. BEHEIREN leaders have tried to help this growth along by setting up a youth section, calling it "Young BEHEIREN." BEHEIREN's imaginative actions and publicity-conscious programs have been responsible for its recent growth, and this period of growth seems to be now on

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

-3-

the verge of really picking up speed and momentum. As a result of its role in the case of the four deserting sailors, BEHEIREN has reaped bountiful publicity, has succeeded in touching a delicate Japanese public nerve of sympathy and pacifism, opening a floodgate of support for BEHEIREN from all over Japan. When this case fades from the limelight, it is still most likely that a fair percentage of current wave of popular support for BEHEIREN will solidify into permanent mass backing, giving BERSIREN, for the first time, a meaningful base to support its future activities.

5. Activities and Accomplishments: BEHEIREN has engaged in a number of propaganda actions, and participated in international anti-Vietnam War activities. It has tried to co-operate with certain front activities in Japan controlled by the JCP, most notably the Japan Committee to Investigate War Crimes in Vietnam activities, which culminated in the Tokyo Court of last August, but has been soundly and rudely rebuffed by the JCP. In spite of this, BEHEIREN bas churned along at its own pace, with a continuing series of anti-Vietnam war actions, most of them related in some way to the American pacifist movement. In this regard, BEHEIREN has succeeded in cornering a virtual monopoly on Japanese contacts with the U.S. pacifist movements, and has effectually capitalized on this to promote its own action program. The case of the four deserting sailors, while an apparent lucky windfall for BEHEIREN, only points up the fact that BEHEIREN, through past organizational work and promotional activities, was "johnny-on-the-spot", ready and capable (unique in Japan in this regard) to take the ball and run with it. BEHEIREN ran all the way in this case and scored its most notable success since it was organized. (Attachment 2 is a listing of BEHEIREN's more notable activities since its founding. Attachment 3 is a partial listing of American and other foreign persons known to have been in contact with or cooperated with BEHEIREN.)

## B. The Case of the Four Sailor Deserters and BEHEIREN.

1. How It Started: The consensus of all available overt media material, with no recorded dissent, indicates that the four sailors voluntarily left their ship, went AWOL, and ended up wallowing around Tokyo's hippie-land. Precisely what personal grievances prompted the four to embark on this mis-adventure is not yet known. But, up to this point, the four could fairly be categorized as misguided youngsters, gone astray in a foreign land, and due to get slapped back in line with traditional Navy justice when they finally decided to stop the fun and go back to the ship. So far, this made their cases far from unique.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

2. How It Became an Incident: But instead of returning to their ship of their own volition or being apprehended by the Shore Patrol, the four made contact with BEHEIREN leaders. Again, press reports indicate that this was just a coincidence, that there was no pre-planning by the four to contact EEHEIREN. There are no available overt nor covert reports that indicate otherwise. But, once the BEHEIREN people made contact, they recognized the potential immediately and moved fast for the kill. (Attachment 4 is a Yomiuri Newspaper clipping, 22 November 1967, that is both a representative and comprehensive account of this phase of the case. Even if this article should contain some minor inaccuracies, the basic line seems factual and has not been challenged elsewhere.)

3. BEHEIREN Takes Over: When the four made contact with BEHEIREN, it suddenly became an entirely different ballgame. BEHEIREN had everything needed to capitalize on this: veteran activist leaders who are experienced enough to recognize the windfall that had come their way; an apparatus that could provide hiding places for the four; long standing liaison contacts with Soviet Embassy officials for use in planning exit from Japan; solid contacts with reliable American pacifists with whom the bona fides of the four sailors could be checked; money and organization to capitalize on the propaganda potential (such as preparing a movie film for the initial BEHEIREN press conference announcing the desertion, prepared more likely than not by BEHEIREN stalwart EUFO Keinosuke, an independent film producer); and English speaking activists capable of sympathizing, encouraging, soothing, or agitating the four young sailors, so that there would be no turning back.

4. The BEHEIREN Apparatus At Work: While many of the small pieces of this puzzle, which would put the whole case in proper detailed chronological order and eliminate speculation on minor points, are still missing, enough is known now, through overt and covert sources, that the picture of BEHEIREN'S adept handling of this case shines through clearly. The following elements, all part of the BEHEIREN apparatus, make up the bulk of the picture:

a) Hide-out: When EEHEIREN got hold of the four on about 26 October, they had to be hiden out for the approximate two week period until their exit from Japan could be arranged. This presented BEHEIREN no great logistical problem. A number of the BEHEIREN activist leaders have homes well suited to harboring fugitives. For example, BEHEIREN activist leader FUKASAKU Mitsusada has a villa hidden away in Chigasaki, which was used on the night of 12 September for a meeting of about 20 top BEREIREN leaders, and which would be highly suitable

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

-5-

for hiding the four deserters. Other private-dwellings, be-
longing to BEHEIREN leaders and loyal supporters, are scattered
throughout both the Kanto and Kansai areas.

b) BEHEIREN/Soviet Liaison: BEHEIREN Secretary General
YOSHIKAWA has maintained periodic contact with Soviet Embassy
officials for years. BEHEIREN Chairman ODA has met Soviet
Peace Committee officials in Koscow. The exact means of how
this liaison was accomplished in this case is precisely known
from a covert phone tap on the Soviet Embassy's line. A full
transcript is available of two phone calls made on 30 Octobor,
first by Brian Victoria to Chief Press Attache Nikolay V.
Vasilyevich, and second by YOSHIKAWA to First Secretary
Sergey D. Anisimov, urgently requesting a private meeting
later that day to discuss "an extremely important, extremely
delicate matter", without doubt the case of the four sailors.

c) BEHEIREN/U.S. Pacifist Liaison: BEHEIREN contacted
Dartmouth University professor Ernest P. Young, who flew to
Japan on & November, apparently helped BEHEIREN leaders check
out the bona fides of the deserters, and returned to the U.S.
on 11 November. (Attachment 5 is the translation of a Sankei
Shimbun article, dated 21 November, reporting an interview
with Young, giving his version of his role in this case.)

5. Escape to Moscow: The four deserters turned up in
   moscow on 20 November. The press has speculated widely and
   unanimously that the four left Japan on the Soviet passenger
   ship Baikal on 11 November. Again, there is no dissenting
   opinion, overt nor covert. The only mystery concerning this
   final phase of the Japanese portion of this case concerns the
   mechanics of how the four boarded the Baikal and who assisted
   in this caneauver. But with the sailing of the Baikal from
   Yokohama, BEHEIREN completed its most highly successful and
   beautifully executed activity in its 2 1/2 year history. Not
   only did BEHEIREN smear the American Government's image in
   Japan, not only did BEHEIREN gain a vast amount of priceless
   publicity that will swell the ranks of its supporters and be
   invaluable in future activities, but BEHEIREN doubtlessly
   even made a profit, financially, on this low budget operation
- donations are still pouring into BEHEIREN Headquarters from
  all over Japan to "help and protect U.S. deserters".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Attachment No. 1.

Japanese Who Have Been Identified as

Active BEHEIREN Supporters or Sympathizers

1.  YOSHIKAWA Yuichi (BEHEIREN Secretary General) - former JCP member.

2.  ODA Makoto (BEHEIREN Chairman) - popular novelist.

3.  KAIKO Ken - Akutagawa prize winning novelist.

4.  KUBO Keinosuke - film producer and director.

5.  TSURUMI Shunsuke - Doshisha University professor.

6.  TSURUMI Kazuko - sister of Shunsuke (their father is the late philosopher, Yusuke).

7.  FURUYAMA Yozo - high school teacher.

8.  MUTO Ichiyo - ex-JCP (tried to travel to U.S. to represent BEHEIREN at October 21 demonstrations this year, but was denied a visa to enter the U.S.)

9.  YAMADA Atsushi - ex-JCP.

10. FUKUDA Yoshiyuki - playwriter.

11. TOMINAGA Ichiro - cartoonist.

12. FUKASAKU Mitsusada - professor:

13. AWAZU Kiyoshi - graphic designer.

14. TAKADO Kaname - Christian leader.

15. YOSHIDA Kiju - film director.

16. UMIHARA Shun - writer.

17. HASHIMOTO Mineo - Buddhist priest

18. HOTTA Yoshie - novelist.

19. GOTO Hiroyuki - scientist.

20. KUWABARA Takeo - professor at Kyoto University.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

14-00000

# SECRET

21. SAKAMOTO Yoshikazu - Assistant professor at Tokyo University.
22. HIDAKA Rokuro - professor at Tokyo University.
23. IIDA Momo - writer.
24. TSURUMI Yoshiyuki - employed at International House in Tokyo.
25. TERAI Minako
26. ANAI Fumihiko
27. NASU Masanao
28. MATSUMOTO Ichiju
29. FUKUTOMI Setsuo
30. KURIHARA Yukio
31. etc: ANDO Jimbei, CHIBA Hido, EGAWA Taku, FUJII Nittatsu,
    HARIYU Ichiro, HOSHINO Yasusaburo, ICHII Saburo, IKEYAMA Juro,
    ISHIDA Takeshi, KANAI Yoshiko, KASAI Seiichi, KATAGIRI Yuzuru,
    KATO Shuichi, KAZAMA Michitaro, MATSUURA SOZO, KIDOKORO Masac,
    KITAKOJI Satoshi, KOBAYASHI Shoichiro, KOMATSU Sakyo,
    KOBAYASHI Tomi, KUNO Osamu (Shu), KURODA Hidetoshi, MARUYAMA
    Masao, MIDORIKAWA Toru, MIZUSAWA Yana, MORITAKI Ichiro,
    MUCHAKU Seikyo, MURAMATSU Hiro, NISHIO Noboru, NOMURA Koichi,
    OGOSHI Teruo, OTSUKOTSU Yoshiko, SERIZAWA Tae, SHIRAI Shimpei,
    SHINMURA Takeshi, SHISHIDO Hiroshi, SUGIURA Mitsuo, SUGIYANA
    Tatsumaru, SUZUKI Masahira, TAKEUCHI Yoshitomo, WADA Nagahisa,
    YAMADA Munemitsu, YAMADA Toshio, YAMAGUCHI Kosaku, YAMANISHI
    Kiichi, YASUDA Takeshi, YOSHINO Genzaburo, YOSHIWARA Koichiro,
    OKAMOTO Taro, MATSUMOTO Seicho, EI Rokusuke, IZUMI Taku,
    AWAYA Noriko, KATO Yoshiro, SHIROYAMA Saburo, TAKAHASHI
    Taketomo, ODAGIRI Hideo, OKUMA Minoru, SANO Kenji, SUZUKI
    Michihiko, KUBATA Hanya, SHINOHARA Seiei, MARUYAMA Kunio,

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

TSURUSHIMA Sotsurei, NURO Kenji, KONAKA Yotaro, SAKAMOTO
Yoshikazu, SAITO Masahiko, etc.

COMMENT: Although not recorded here, many of the above persons
are ex-JCP members.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

Attachment No. 2

Some BEHEIREN Activities and Accomplishments

1.  Regular once-per-month demonstrations at a public park in Tokyo, consisting of anti-American speeches and followed by street marches.

2.  An all night TV "teach-in" with DEHEIREN activist leaders, along with special guest, U. S. pacifist Carl Oglesby (Chairman of the Students for a Democratic Society.)

3.  A full page advertisement in the New York Times (16 November 1965), followed by another full page ad in the Washington Post (3 April 1967), appealing to Americans to stop the war in Vietnam.

4.  A "Meet in Conference of Two Nations for Peace in Vietnam," held in Tokyo in August 1966, and attended by BEHEIREN activists and seven U.S. pacifist leaders (including Dave Dellinger), and observers from France, England, Canada, the USSR, Pakistan, and Mongolia.

5.  A mass meeting in Tokyo in October 1966, guest speakers of which were French pacifists, Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir.

6.  Nationwide tours of Japan for lectures and peace rallies for such anti-Vietnam war pacifists as Professor Howard Zinn and the late A. J. Muste of the United States, Claude Bourdet of France, and Thich Nhat Hanh of South Vietnam.

7.  A mass meeting in Tokyo in January 1967, sponsored by DEHEIREN and featuring U.S. folk singer and pacifist Joan Baez.

8.  A continuing program of direct distribution of pamphlets to U.S. troops stationed in Japan, and those coming to Japan on warships, and for rest or hospitalization from Vietnaz.

9.  Participation by two BEHEIREN activist leaders (Kyoto University professor KUWABARA Takeo and International House staffer TSURUMI YOshikyuki, taking advantage of a trip to the U.S. to attend a non-political Japan-America Congress on Cultural Problems) in anti-Vietnam war speech rallies and demonstrations at Dartmouth University in early May 1967, followed by an unsuccessful attempt to invite Cassius Clay to visit Japan on behalf of SEHEIREN.

10. Continuing offorts to bring to Japan for a nationwide

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

tour on behalf of BEHEIREN, Soviet poet Yevgeni Yevtushenko, effort that has not yet reached fruition but is still po.

11. Participation in the Stockholm July 1967 "World Conference Vietnam," by sending two BEHEIREN activist leaders as delegates.

12. Cooperation with the U.S. Quakers, pacifists, and Earle Reynolds in sending the yacht "Phoenix" with medical aid, first to Haiphong, then on a second trip in the Fall of 1967, seeking but failing to find landfall to deliver medical aid to either North or South Vietnam.

13. Attempted, but failed due to inability to obtain U.S. visa, to send a BEHEIREN activist leader (MUTO Ichiyo) to the U.S. to participate in the 21 October 1967 anti-Vietnam War demonstrations.

14. Currently carrying out a fund raising campaign to send an aid ship to North Vietnam. In this, and other activities, BEHEIREN leaders are maintaining ever closer liaison contact with their counterparts abroad, such as the French "Comite' Vietnam National." In an effort to generate public support for this aid ship fund raising campaign, BEHEIREN succeeded in issuing a public appeal, under the endorsing signatures of Tokyo Governor MINOBE Ryokichi and Yokohama Mayor ASUKATA Ichio, as well as the usual intellectuals supporting BEHEIREN.

15. In October 1967, BEHEIREN solicited approval to hold anti-Vietnam War demonstrations in front of the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, expecting to be denied and then intending to make this denial a court test case. Instead, BEHEIREN was given this permission, and conducted two orderly and well-publicized demonstrations in front of the American Embassy, garnering a larger public turn out of participants than in any previous BEHEIREN-sponsored demonstration.

16. Assisted and abetted the defection to the USSR of four American sailors from the U.S. Navy carrier Intrepid. Following this success, BEHEIREN's most effective activity to date, BEHEIREN leaders are organizing a permanent "underground railway" of Japanese intellectuals who will volunteer their homes as possible "way stops" for hiding future U.S. military deserters that BEHEIREN now hopes to induce.

Comment: For other details, see Tokyo intelligence reporting:

FJT-11547, 31 May 1966

FJT-12046, 14 October 1966

FJT-12690, 10 May 1967

FJT-12851, 5 July 1967

FJT-13081, 8 September 1967

FJT-13154, 27 September 1967

FJT-13303, 22 November 1967

Also, OSS-6790, 11 July 1967

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

ATTACHMENT 3

SECRET

Partial Listing of American and Other Foreign Persons Known to Have Been in Contact with or Cooperated with BEREIREN

A. Americans.

1.  Staughton Lynd (ex-Yale professor)
2.  Norman Mailer (novelist)
3.  Dave Dellinger (Editor of Liberation)
4.  Howard Zinn (Boston U. professor)
5.  Donald Keyes (National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy)
6.  David McReynolds (Chairman, War Resisters' League)
7.  A. J. Kuste (now deceased)
8.  Karl Meyer
9.  William Davidson
10. Bradford Lyttle
11. Charlotte Thurber
12. (Miss) Quentin Bassett (Students for a Democratic Society)
13. Murray Levin (Boston U. professor)
14. Robert Ockene (Veterans and Reservists to End the War in Vietnam)
15. Carl Oglesby (Chairman, Students for a Democratic Society)
16. Barbara Deming (Associate editor of Liberation)
17. Joan Baez (folk singer)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

18. Ira Morris (Paris expatriate)

19. Otto Naisan (phonetic, New York City peace activist)

20. Barbara and Earle Reynolds (divorced but separately active long-time residents in Japan)

21. William R. Christensen (an American pacifist drifter, who gave BENEIREN its first experience in the ssummer of 1966 in exploiting for pro- paganda in Japan, and then in arranging the onward journey of an American who wanted to defect to the USSR)

22. Brian Victoria (head-shaved pacifist and "converted" Buddhist priest, known to be in regular contact with the Soviet Embassy in Tokyo)

23. Mr. Willowby (inu, phonetic, "chief of the Quaker Peace Action movement in the U.S")

24. An unidentified American of Japanese descent, from Hawaii, who is currently a student at Waseda University

25. Kosaku Yamaguchi (reportedly born in U.S., present citizenship status unclear) (formerly was a professor at Momoyama University in Osaka, but has been teaching at the University of California in Berkeley for some time)

B. Other Foreigners.

1. Mikhail Kotov, USSR (Soviet Peace Committee)

2. Claude Bourdet, France (French Committee to Support the Vietnamese People)

3. Peggy Duff, Great Britain (Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament)

4. James Endicott, Canada (World Peace Council)

5. Faiz Ahmed Faiz, Pakistan

6. Gabita Muslepov, USSR

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

7. Mrs. Erdenebat Ojon, Mongolia

8. Konstantin Shugnov, USSR

9. Francis Marcel Kahn, France (Comite Vietnam National)

10. Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir, France

11. Thich Nhat Hanh, South Vietnam

COMMENT: This is not, by any means, a complete listing, nor does it necessarily list BEHEIREN's most important activist contacts abroad. But this list is representative in showing the breadth of BEHEIREN liaison abroad, particularly with the American "new left".

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# ATTACHMENT. 4

# THE YOMIURI

## 4 US Deserters Possibly Left Japan Aboard Baikal

The four deserters from the US aircraft carrier Intrepid who made a dramatic television appearance Monday in Moscow are believed to have left Japan irregularly by the Soviet-liner Baikal which left Yokohama on November 11 for the Far East Soviet port of Nakhodka.

Sources in the Metropolitan Police Department said Tuesday that the four Americans could have boarded the ship by a special gangway for Soviet Government officials.

Japanese watchmen were on guard at another gangway for ordinary passengers when 222 listed passengers. including eight Americans, boarded the liner before it departed Yokohama at 11.50 am, November 11.

The watchmen told police that they did not see any person who was not on the passenger list board the ship through the ordinary gangway.

It was learned that 17 officials of the Soviet Embassy and trade mission in Tokyo and scores of visitors boarded the Baikal through the special gangway.

The police sources said that it was "quite possible" that the Soviet authorities in Tokyo arranged the deserters' exit....

## Beheiren Pledge

YUICHI YOSHIKAWA, secretary-general of the Japan Peace-For-Vietnam Committee (Beheiren), told a press conference Tuesday that the committee could not disclose how the four Americans left because it had promised, not to do so.

He neither affirmed nor denied the report that the Americans left Japan by the Baikal on November, 11.

It was the. Beheiren 'which announced for the first time the desertion of the four crew members of the Intrepid to pro

test against the Vietnam war at a press conference held November 13 in Tokyo.

Yoshikawa said that the deserters first wanted to live peacefully in Japan and asked the Beheiren 'to find them jobs, in which they could utilize their English proficiency..

The Beheiren told them that they could not live in Japan without being "found by the Japanese police or. US military authoritles sooner or later, Yoshikawa said.

### Lived Like Hippies

Hiromi Naito, 20, a painter of Tokyo, told The Yomiuri Shimbun that he and his friend, Sansei Yamao, a hippie and member of the Beheiren, acted as go-betweens for the deserters and the Beheiren,

Naito said he met two of the four deserters Airman Dick D. Bailey. 19, and Airman Mike A. Lindner, 19-at a hippie hangout in Shinjuku around October 20.

He said both Americans wore leather jackets and other informal clothing which they said they borrowed from their Japanese hippie friends hanging around the Shinjuku area.

Bailey and Lindner and the other two-Airman John M. Barilla, 20, and Airman Apprentice Craig W. Anderson, 20-went around in pairs, Naito said.

Naito said he let Bailey and Lindner stay overnight at his house in Hayamiyacho, Nerima-ku, from October 24 to 25.

Not Worried

When he first met the deserters, they were practically penniless but appeared quite unconcerned, Naito said.

He said the deserters apparently enjoyed hipple life living on cheap Japanese food and drink such as udon (noodles) and shochu.

He said the four Americans wanted to live in Japan, and if possible in Tokyo.

Naito and his friend Yamao decided to ask the help of the Beheiren and delivered the four men to the Beheiren around November 26.

Naito said he believed that all the four Americans were not communists and that they had no interest in communist ideology.

He said the four must have decided to go to some neutral country via the Soviet Union after they learned that they could not live in Japan.

A spokesman for the Justice Ministry said Tuesday that there was nothing 'legally wrong' in the four Americans leaving Japan because the administrative agreement in the Japan-US Security Treaty guarantees US military personnel the right to come, to stay in or leave Japan.

He said he understood that the four Americans were technically still enlisted US military personnel.

Furthermore, if their exit took place on November 11, it was before e US authorities made an official request to the Japanese police to search for them, he added,

He also said there were no Japanese laws allowing charges to be preferred against the Beheiren officials and other Japanese people who "protected" the Americans in Japan and helped their departure to the Soviet Union.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# 14-00000

SANKEI (Full)

November 21, 1967

Prof. YOUNG Says Four American Deserter Seamen Not in Japan Any More

Went to Tokyo and Tried to Dissuade Them;
Probably Escaped from Japan on the 12th or the 13th

(New York, November 20, Correspondent Tadashi ONODERA) Professor
Ernest P. YOUNG of Dartmouth College in the U.S., consented to an interview
with this reporter on the question of the four American seamen who deserted
from the U.S. aircraft carrier Intrepid. At the interview held on the 19th,
Professor YOUNG clarified that the Peace for Vietnam Association (Beheiren,
with Makoto ODA acting as its representative) contacted an anti-war organiza-
tion in the U.S., and at this, Professor YOUNG hurriedly visited Tokyo, and
meeting the four seamen in a room in an apartment house in Tokyo on the 9th
rand 10th, tried to persuade them to return. In regard to the pres ent where-
abouts of these four seamen, he made the noteworthy statement that "those
four were still in Japan, up until the night of the 11th, when I left Japan,
but they are probably no longer in Japan now."

Families Perplexed

The questions and answers exchanged with Professor YOUNG are as follows:

-- Why did you go to Japan?

Professor: Beheiren contacted David DERKINGER, a pacifist activist
in the U.S., asking him to "send someone to Japan to hear the stories of
the four seamen and announce them in the U.S." I have been in Japan twice,
and I also once served as special assistant to Ambassador REISCHAUER.
During that time, I became friends with Beheiren representative ODA' and
other intellectuals in Japan. It was for these reasons that I was given
this assignment. I personally have never participated actively in the
anti-Vietnam war movement so far.

-- When did you arrive in Japan, and where did you meet the four
seamen?

Professor: I arrived in Haneda on November 8, and met the four seamen
on the 9th and the 10th. The place of interview was in an apartment house
in Tokyo, but I cannot say at this time where that apartment house was and
who owned it. However, on both days, I talked fully with these four seamen,
for more than three hours on each occasion (according to an investigation
made by the public security authorities, Professor YOUNG arrived in Japan
toward the evening of the 8th, and stayed at Hotel Tanakanwa in Shiba,
Minato-ku, until the morning of the 11th).

-- What were the motives for these four seamen's desertion?

Professor: The desertion was completely the decision of these four
persons. It seems that the four seamen decided not to return to the ship,
when the Intrepid entered Yokosuka Port on October 17, and they were per-
mitted to go ashore for rest for one week. My impression on meeting these
four seamen was that they were definitely not deserting for the purpose of
self-advertisement or that they were giving false reasons. I am convinced
that they deserted really out of doubt about the Vietnam war.

-- What were the movements of the four after they deserted?

Professor: On the night of the 23rd, two days before the Intrepid
was due to sail, the four went to Shinjuku, and told the people whom they
met at a bar they happened to visit, that "we are fed up with war." The
Japanese who heard them sympathized with them, and at one time, the four
lived with some hippies (according to this paper's investigations; they
include Mr. K., a student of Tokyo University's Liberal Arts Department,
and vanguard artist A., who gather at Fugetsudo in Shinjuku.) Finally,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# 14-00000

they were taken to Beheiren by a student who spoke English (according to this paper's investigation, this was Mr. S., a Waseda University student).
After that, they were hidden by Beheiren. I cannot say where they were hidden.

-- Were the four firmly determined to desert?

Professor: My purpose in visiting Japan was to dissuade the four.
I explained to them what the results of their desertion would be. I even told them that they would never again be permitted to stand on American soil; their fatherland. At the time I met them, it was still at a stage where they would only receive light punishment, if they reported back immediately, saying that they "had missed their ship.". However, their determination was firm, and my persuasion had no effects.

The four seamen's desertion was announced in the form of a press interview given by Beheiren, Were there no facts of their having been forced to desert, during that period?

Professor: I ascertained that point, too. However, they firmly denied any fact of their having been forced, saying that they had voluntarily consulted Beheiren as to whether they should publicly announce the intention to desert, and if so, in what form this should be made.

-- Where are the four seamen now, and where are they planning to go?

Professor: I am certain that the four of them were still in Japan, up until the 11th, the day I left for home. However, they already knew fully well that it was not possible for them to obtain asylum in Japan. They even said that "we will probably have to go to some third nation, which is neutral." (The public security authorities judge that the four seamen left Japan immediately after Mr. YOUNG's persuasion, and consider that they probably were smuggled out of Japan after the 10th, and before the evening of the 13th, when Beheiren announced their desertion at a press conference, However, Mr. YOUNG says that the four seamen were in Japan up until the night of the 11th. Therefore, the possibility is strong that they were smuggled out of Japan by ship, between the night of the 11th and the evening of the 13th.)

-- The films showing the four seamen were shown publicly in the U.S., too. What were the reactions in the U.S.?

Professor: When the films were publicly shown, there was big excitement, with rows and rows of television and press cameramen. I thought I would be exposed to persistent questioning by the FBI and the CIA, after I returned home, but so far, I have only been questioned once by the Navy's Intelligence Section, about the circumstances. It seems that American authorities concerned do not want to make too big a fuss over the matter.

-- What do the parents think of this action taken by their sons?

Professor: A certain television station asked the mother of one of the four men about her son's life... This mother was completely perplexed, saying: "My son is a most average American youth. His school records were quite ordinary, and he liked sports, just like any other student. I cannot understand why he acted in such a way."

33

KH


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)