# SECRET

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

4 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Personnel Security Division

SUBJECT: Reassignment

1. It is requested that clearance be granted for the reassignment of
   Career Agent, to Caracas, Venezuela under (AID) cover.

2. security clearance number is 32.

3. It is planned that will depart Headquarters during June, 1965.

Desmond FitzGerald
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

Date 7/12/6

Security Approval has been granted for the use
by his request.

Chief, Personnel Security Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO: Central Cover Staff

THROUGH: Office of Security

SUBJECT: OTRAIN, Lucien E.

(True Name)

DATE: 06 JUN 1965

ENTRY Inclusion of Subject on the Domestic Cover list is requested as noted below. When notified that cover has been established, Subject will be specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation.

CHANGE Subject is currently included on the Domestic list. For the reason noted below, it is requested that:

This employee be removed from the Domestic Cover list.

The following change be made.

military cover. He was temporarily scheduled for duty at ISOLATION under.

TYPE COVER
| MILITARY/VERIFIABLE JOB DESTATION. | OTHER GOVT. AGENCY |                  |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------ | ---------------- |
| USE OF COVER                       | ALL PURPOSE        | OPERATIONAL ONLY |

| STAFF OR DIVISION                   | REQUESTING OFFICE:          |
| ----------------------------------- | --------------------------- |
| SIGNATURE AND TITLE:                |                             |
| Chester R. Wontam, Security Officer |                             |
| CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL        | OFFICE OF SECURITY APPROVAL |
| ---                                 |                             |
| SIGNATURE                           | SIGNATURE:                  |
| P. Rhode                            |                             |
| DATE                                | DATE:                       |
| 4 January 1965                      |                             |

FORM 1322 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

# REQUEST FOR DOMESTIC COVER LIST ENTRY OR CHANGE

SUBMIT THIS FORM IN DUPLICATE, ENCLOSED IN SEALED ENVELOPE

TO: Central Cover Staff

THROUGH: Office of Security

SUBJECT: GOMAIN, Lucien E.

DATE: 6 Jan 1965

ENTRY Inclusion of Subject on the Domestic Cover list is requested as noted below. When notified that cover has been established, Subject will be specifically authorized and instructed to conceal his Agency affiliation.

CHANGE Subject is currently included on the Domestic list. For the reason noted below, it is requested that:

This employee be removed from the Domestic Cover list

The following change be made

TYPE COVER: Military

USE OF COVER: ALL PURPOSE / OPERATIONAL ONLY

REQUESTING OFFICE:

STAFF OR DIVISION

SIGNATURE AND TITLE:
Chester R. Norton, FD Security Officer

DATE: 6 January 1965

CENTRAL COVER STAFF APPROVAL

OFFICE OF SECURITY APPROVAL

SIGNATURE

SIGNATURE

DATE

DATE

OFFICE OF SECURITY COPY

FORM 1322


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)