14-00000
104-10221-10022
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

F12.79.00

Chief, Percomol Security Division, 08

16 March 197

Director, Domestic Contact Bervice
(Chief, Gervices Division)

HEREEIL, Mitchell Livingston, III -- Revocation of DOD Security
#27636 Clearance/Recont Contact
MD1-056-71

1.  The infomation reported in the enclosed self-explanatory
    κομοτandımı, regarding Subject's self-initiated contact with our
    Hlal Field Offion, may be of interest.

2.  The Office of the General Counsel and I Division have
    been apprised of Subject's recent activities.

3.  Any questiona portaining to this sesoramina should be
    directed to Hrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

![SECURITY]

HILLIAM J. VAURORAD

Eclosure: As stated above

Vihornetgry

4.78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

ATTH

Director, Dorcutic Contact Service
John McConnell
John Creany (OCC)
Chief, Miami Field Office

V. Thone

NIN-056-71

10 March 1971

Mitchell Livingston Kerbell, III

1. On 9 Mar 71 we received a long distance call, presumably from Powder Springs, Georgia, from subject, who is an old and unsavory contact of this office dating from 1959. Werbell has been involved in a variety of scrapes, the latest of which concerned an abortive invasion of Haiti which John Creany was very much concerned about a year or so ago.

2. Werbell stated that the Department of Defense had just revoked his security clearance on grounds of Werbell's "frivolous behavior" in the Haitian caper. Werbell stated that he intended to "fight it to the Supreme Court", as he had always kept us and other clements of the US Government informed concerning developments in the Haitian matter.

3. Werbell asked if there was anything that we could do for him in the way of interceding for his with the DOD, and we informed him bluntly and in no uncertain terms that he was strictly on his own, and we could do nothing for him. He then asked if it would be worthwhile to subpoena Cart Gonzales. We informed him that it was up to his attorney to take such recommendations.

4. Werbell seemed to get the message, and then offered to keep us advised regarding an alleged forthcoming attempt on Haiti which is being sponsored by Rolando Fasferrer, even though Fasferrer is currently incarcerated in a federal prison. He told Werbell that if he wished to pass any information along we would accept it but under no circumstances should he attempt to elicit any information on our behalf. He agreed that he would operate on this basis and said he might be in touch with us again.

5. In view of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should be a matter of record and that CGC should be informed of developments.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

JFC/csa


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

# Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

F-12-77-00

22 May 1969

Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

MERRELL, Mitchell L. - Local OHI Inquiry to DCB Miami Office for
#27686 Information Concerning
mim-084-69

1.  The enclosed copy of memorandum from our Miami Office, regarding the OSI representative's inquiry for information concerning Subject, is forwarded for your records and possible future reference.

2. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

SECURITY

B. FRANK YATES

Enclosure: As stated above

Vihorne:grw

4.47

SECRET

![Label 1, Letterhead NSA emblem identifying NSA originating office]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Memorandum

TO: Director, Domestic Contact Service

FROM: Chief, Niami Field Office

DATE: 15 May 1969

MIM-084-69

SUBJECT: Local OSI Inquiry Regarding Information on Mitchell L. Werbell

1.  On 15 May 1969, Special Agent Dave Ploumen, local OSI representative, USAF, visited the Miami Field Office to solicit any information we might have regarding Mitchell L. Werbell who apparently is undergoing a security clearance check as the result of presently being employed by a company with a government contract.

2.  Werbell was an unsolicited contact of this office beginning in 1959 and he reached peck notoriety In November 1967 as a result of his Involvement in the Rolando Masferrer trial in connection with the abortive Haitian Invasion. John Greaney, OSG was in iht the time to oversee Agency interests.

3.  Ploumen in contacting other. US Goverment nncies locally including the U Attorney's Office somehow received an indication that CIA hal information on Werbell; thus Floumen's vist to the plant Field Office.

4.  It was indicated to Ploumen, who is knowa personally by several members of this staff, that we knew of Werbell and that on occasion he had reported unsolicited information. It was suggested, however, that Ploumen direct his request officially through channels in OSI'sengehey liaison officer in Washington.

5.  This is for background and is being forwarded at the cuggestio of local CIA Security.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

Chief, Miami Field Office

ATT: Mr. E. Hozna
Director, Domestic Contact Service (Services Division)

REF: MANN, Mitchell L.
MD1-084-69

22 May 1969

Thank you for the information reported in the referent. The suggestion made by your office that OCI direct its request through official security channels is entirely correct. In the future, however, it will be helpful and appreciated if you will forward correspondence pertaining to security matters directly to the Security Liaison Officer, rather than to Support Staff. This saves time in getting the information to the appropriate channel for any action that may be indicated.

![SECURITY]

JAMES R. MURPHY

VThornsigr

4.46

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE: 5 July 1967

TO: Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT: WERBELL, Mitchell Livingston III

FILE NO: #27686

1.  Reference is made to your request for security checks on the subject person as a source of intelligence information.

2.  This is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with the following results:

a.  ☐ No additional information has been obtained, except for such biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b.  ☐ Information has been received that Subject was investigated with favorable results in.

c.  ☑ Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3.  It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be notified immediately.

Attachment:

State Passport Report
Summary

RESTRICTED

EYES ONLY
+4237

WILLIAM R. KOTTMISH
Chief, Personnel Security Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

WERBELL, Mitchell L.
027 086 26 April 1967

On 19 April 1967, the current passport file of Mitchell I. WERBELL was reviewed at the Passport Office, Departmentof State. The following is a summary of the information contained therein:

Birth: 8 March 1918 at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
(Verified by birth certificate)

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida, on 29 May 1962, Passport Number C-301433, for a two week trip to England and Germany for the purpose of business.

Residence: RD #1, Powder Springs, Georgia
Occupation: Public Relations and Advertising Executive.

SUBJECT's file also reveals that the Federal Bureau of Investiga- tion has information pertaining to SUBJECT concerning his involvement in Haitian Revolutionary activities.

FLR/me

CONFIDENTIAL

4.45


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

DATE 31 July 1957

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief, MIAMI FIELD OFFICE

FROM: Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Services Division)

SUBJECT: Security Check Completion -- US Citizen

REFERENCE:
(a) DCS R 10-30, dated 1 July 1965
(b) Operations Nemo 80-64

1. Attached is a notice of security check completion on the individual
   listed below. The CS approved Subject's exploitation as a source of intell-
   patisinformation, but the level of classified information which may be di-
   realed is left to your discretion.

2. As indicated in the attachment, the CS provided a Summary of derogatory
   information for you to coustier in determining the level of classified discloure.
   It will be forwarded by Services Division by an "Eyes Only" memorandum which will
   vera a number identical to the one marked on the lower left corner of the
   completion. Please use this number to identify a Summary with an individual.

3. The CS directs that the field chief, after reading the information,
   will use it to establish the level of classified disclosure, if any, and to
   provide guidance to the Contact Specialist in his relations with the source.
   He may, at his discretion disclose the mature of the derogatory information
   to Contact Specialist. The field chief, after making an appropriate
   determination in the open files of the office with respect to the security status
   of the individual, will then either destroy the information or place in a
   sealed envelope which will carry the caveat: "To be opened by the Chief or
   Acting Chief of Field Office."

JAMES R. HENRY

Attachment:
WERBELL, MITCHELL Livingston, III

CLASSIFICATION: "Restricted" -No Classified Info
to be revealed. Check with Mr. Gleichauf before
contacting.

![signature of Justin F. Gleichauf]
Justin F. Gleichauf

S: 4 July 1927

Vierasipat

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

4.45


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

F12.79-00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 08

21 February 1967

ATP : Mr. Leland Bunn
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

VERDELL, Mitchell L. -- Recent Telephone Call from Chet GRAY
of Los Angeles re Possible Assassination
in US of Close Relative of Middle East
Ruler

A.127900

1.  The enclosed copy of telstype from cur Miami Field Office
    is forwarded for your information and immediate transmittal to the
    FBI.

2. Mr. John McConnell, of this Office, has discussed this
   matter with Mr. Cara Papich, FBI, who said the FBI will contact Sub-
   ject and GRAY, and will subsequently advise us of any action they
   might want us to take.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be
   directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2730.

B. FRANK YOUNG

Enclosure: Telotype Contacts/Miami-1710
dated 20 February 1967

VThorne:pat

4.44


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

6857
CC-FBI Via OS
SECRET
SECRET 201530Z CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710
CONTACTS/WASHINGTON
file
ATTN: MCCONNELL
FROM: GLEICHAUF

1. WE HAVE RECEIVED A MOST UNUSUAL PHONE CALL FROM MITCHELL
   WERBELL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WHICH FOLLOW,

2. WERBELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN IN
   OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959.
   WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE HAS
   FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. HE FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE
   RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY BART
   GONZALES FRON HIM AT 1103 HOURS ON 18 FEBRUARY. HE STATED THAT HE HAD
   JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CHET GRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO ADDRESS
   (PHONE 274-4922).

3. GRAY STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE
   POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE RELATIVE, POSSIBLY
   A BROTHER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT 10 DAYS.
   HE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR BY WHOM
   HE WAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOLD WERBELL THAT HE DID NOT WANT
   TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL

4.44


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECURITY

PAGE 2 CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710 SECRET
REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED WERBELL FOR ADVICE. VER BELL ADVISED GRAY

TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO. WERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE WILLING TO TALK WITH A MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGREED. WERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIM, WERBELL'S NAME WOULD BE USED AS ENTREE.

4. THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS," BUT I DID MEET A CHET GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S HOUSE IN 1962, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ARE CONTAINED IN OOA(S)5621 AND OOA(S) 5598 DATED 18 DEC 62. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPROACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

54. PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT.

SECRET

Sum Papich says

FBI will To Werb

and. Gray - Will advise of any action. They want us To Tolke


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

12-77-00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS 24 February 1967

ATT: Mr. Leland Dunn
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

VERBELL, Mitchell L. Communication from Chet GRAY
re Alleged Assassination Attempt -- FBI
A127700 Against Foreign Diplomat -- FBI
Interest

REF: DCS memorandum dated 21 February 1967, same subject

1. Please forward a copy of the enclosed self-explanatory
   Diary Item to Mr. Sam Papich. Mr. Papich was informed of this
   matter by phone on 23 February 1967.

2. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be
   directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2733.

D. FRANK YOUNG

Enclosure: As stated above

CC: Mr. Sam Papich

VThorne: pat 4.43


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

DEY, 23 February 1967

SUBJECT: Mitchell Worbell/Cat Cray

Gleichauf called to say that Vorbeil had heard from Cray both yesterday and the day before expressing concern over the fact that no one had contacted him concerning the alleged assassination attempt against a foreign diplomat. Cray stated that unless he heard from someone immediately he would go to the Governor of California, 23 February. This information was passed to Sam Papich by phone.

cc: Chief, Miami Office

JMcConnolling

![security]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1. SUBJECT'S LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME
   WERBELL, Mitchell L.

2. ALIASES
   A-127900

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
   8 March 1918-Philadelphia, Pa.

4. SEX 5. CITIZENSHIP
   Male US

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP

7. RESIDENCES (Including No. and Street, Zone, R.F.D., etc.)

| FROM | TO      | COMPLETE ADDRESS        |
| ---- | ------- | ----------------------- |
|      | Present | Powder Springs, Georgia |
|      |         |                         |


8. EMPLOYMENT

| FROM | TO      | NAME OF EMPLOYER                           | COMPLETE ADDRESS        |
| ---- | ------- | ------------------------------------------ | ----------------------- |
|      | Present | Lender of Organization to Combat Communism | Powder Springs, Georgia |
| ?    | ?       | Alexis, Inc.                               | Atlanta, Georgia        |
| ?    | ?       | Cool Roof of Georgia, Inc.                 | Atlanta, Georgia        |
| ?    | ?       | Werbell-South, Inc.                        | Atlanta, Georgia        |
|      |         |                                            |                         |


9. EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)

| FROM | TO  | NAME OF SCHOOL | DEGREE OR MAJOR |
| ---- | --- | -------------- | --------------- |
|      |     |                |                 |
|      |     |                |                 |


10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA OF PARENTS AND CHILDREN.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

A-12-79-00

MITCHELL L. MERRELL

Powder Springs, Georgia

BUSINESS

41


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# 14-00000

CIRS-0422/79

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Maurice A. Bern
Chief, PPL Group

ATTENTION:
Lee E. Carle

FROM:
George L. Marling
Chief, Operations Group

SUBJECT:
Request for records Search --
Robert John Morgan, et al. (U)

REFERENCE:
OGC 79-02608 dated 20 September 1979

1. An intensive search of the files and Indices of the Directorate of Operations has revealed no information concerning Robert John MORGAN, Colin Duncan LEIBOLT Hubert Stewart COTTON, John Sylvester CARPENTER, Wayne Ernest DANIEL, or Guy Perilton CARE. (U)

2. However, this search has revealed the following information concerning Wiley Gilmore SIMS (AKA: William Gilmore SIMMS) and Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III (AKA: Mitch THREE). (U)

A. William Gilmore SIMMS

1) In December 1965 SIMMS contacted the United States Embassy in Port of Spain, Trinidad, and talked to a representative of this Directorate. He requested assistance in retrieving an airplane impounded by authorities in Venezuela which they suspected was used in smuggling operations. SIMS also stated that he had been in Guatemala looking for air freight business. The files of this Directorate contain no indication that any action was taken regarding this matter. (U)

2) SIMMS was never employed by this Directorate nor has this Directorate ever had any operational interest in him. (U)

B. Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III

1) WERBELL has never been employed by this Agency nor does this Agency have any operational interest in him. WERBELL was a commissioned officer with the OSS during World War II and served in the China-Burma-India


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

theater. In August of 1959, this Agency considered using WERBELL as a source of information on revolutionary activities in the Caribbean area, particularly Cuba, but terminated its consideration of his possible use in October 1959 when it was determined that his information was of little value and it was suspected that he would use the proposed connection with this Agency to promote his personal interests.(S)

2) In 1973 WERBELL was under investigation by the United States Treasury Department Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and by the United States Customs Service for activities relating to possible mercenary activities on Abaco Island in the Bahamas. In this connection, WERBELL contacted three retired CIA employees during 1974 in an attempt to involve them in a scheme concerning the activites of an organization called the Friends of Abaco (FOA) which advocated the secession of the island from the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. All three individuals reported their contact with WERBELL and sought quidance from this Agency. In May and June of 1974 they were advised to break all ties with WERBELL. On 27 June 1974 the Federal Bureau of Investigation was formally apprised of WERBELL's overtures to the three retired CIA employees. (S)

3. It has been determined that Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III is the subject of PA request number P76-0028. There is no indication that Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III has ever been the subject of an FOIA request of that the remaining individuals listed in reference have ever been the subject of an FOIA or PA request.

(U)

George L. Marling
George L. Marling

OG/EIR:Ditess/CCcreaner/ran:6347 (14Nov70)
BASED ON: 201-259910
FILE IN: 201-259910 Mitchell Livingston WERBELL III
Distribution:
Orig - Addressee w/ref.
1 - OG/EIR w/ref.
1 - OG/EIR Chrono


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

OGC 79-08601
20 September 1979

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate Deputy Director for Administration
Attn: Chief, Security Analysis Group, OS
Associate Deputy Director for Science &
Technology
Associate Deputy Director for Operations
Attn: ISA/DIP/IP/FIS
Thru: C/Reference Branch/ISS/IPG

FROM: John K. Greaney
General Counsel

SUBJECT: Request for Records Search --
Robert John Morgan, et al.

1. The Department of Justice is currently engaged
   in an investigation with state and federal law enforcement
   agencies concerning importation and distribution of marijuana and cocaine. Attached is a copy of the Department's
   letter to requesting verification by CIA of any employment
   or other involvement with certain of the subjects of this
   investigation.

2. In order to respond to the Department's request,
   it would be appreciated if your offices could determine
   if there are any records on the subjects listed in the
   attached letter from the Justice Department.

![signature of John K. Greaney]
John K. Greaney

Attachment


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20530

Organized Crime Strike Force
Richard B. Russell Federal Bldg.
Post Office Box 543
Atlanta, Georgia 30303
September 17, 1979

Mr. John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Mr. Greaney:

It was a pleasure to meet with you and Clyde Carter last Monday.

As I explained to you at that time, we are engaged in an investigation with state and federal law enforcement agencies concerning importation and distribution of marijuana and cocaine. During the course of this investigation, allegations (unfounded, I am sure) have been made that certain of the subjects of this investigation are employees of the Central Intelligence Agency.

I believe it is necessary to resolve as much in advance of an indictment any problems which may arise should any of the subjects of the investigation be involved with the Central Intelligence Agency.

The following individuals are among the subjects of this investigation:

Robert John Horgan - DOB: 3/6/36
John Duncan Leilott - DOB: 7/25/24
Robert Stewart Cotton - DOB: 11/19/23
John Sylvester Carpenter - DOB: 1/27/35
Wiley Gilmore Sims - DOB: 11/5/18
Mitchell Livingston Wartell - DOB: 3/8/18
Wayne Ernest Daniel - DOB: 2/13/40
Guy Perilton Owen - DOB: 11/1/45


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Mr. Greancy -2- September 17, 1979

Please advise as soon as possible if indictment or continued investigation of these individuals will create problems for the Central Intelligence Agency.

Sincerely,

William L. McCulley
Special Attorney
U. S. Dept. of Justice

cc: Robert L. Keuche
Deputy Asst. Attorney General
Criminal Division

Gerard T. McGuire
Deputy Chief
Organized Crime & Racketeering Section
Criminal Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

*CONFIDENTIAL*

FBI reports extracted from Werbell file (DCD) :

1.  FBI report dated 6 August 1974 from Washington, FBI file
    (CI-3) 62-108665, SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III.
    INTERNAL SECRUITY - ABACO, NEUTRALITY MATTERS - ABACO.
2.  FBI report dated 22 July 1974 from Atlanta, Georgia, no
    Bureau file, Subject: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III.

*CONFIDENTIAL*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

DCD-11-2/78
31 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: D20/ISS/IP/EIS
FROM : Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO
SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations:
(IISCA) Request (OLC 77-5685/4)
REFERENCE : Your Memorandum, Same Subject, 28 December 1977

1. In response to referenced request, I am forwarding
   the following material from DCD files:

a. Dan Carswell -- one memorandum which may
relate to the individual you requested.

b. Louis Posada -- negative.

c. Cesario Diosada -- copies of all material in
DCD files.

d. Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III -- file
A-12-79-00, containing all DCD material.
This file is on loan and should be returned
to DCD as soon as possible. PLEASE HAND CARRY.

e. David Atlee Phillips -- negative.

f. Lucien Conein -- one document. (This document
was also furnished in response to Conein's
request (P 77-0805) under the Privacy Act.)

g. William Stuckey -- negative.

h. Ed Butler -- copies of all material in DCD
files.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 386990


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

DCD-11278
31 January 1979
SUBJECT: House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA)
Request (OLC 77-5635/4)

f. Priscilla Johnson McMillan -- DCD response to her request (P 76-1861) under the Privacy Act. Full text and sanitized copies of all this material should be available from IPS. Also attached are four intelligence information reports which were not furnished in response to the PA request.

j. Richard Snyder -- one memorandum which may relate to the individual in whom you are interested.

k. Alexis Davison -- negative.

2. I have made no attempt to sanitize this material. I understand that HSCA staff members who will be examining these documents are fully cleared, and will not be allowed to remove any of this material from our Headquarters, make any copies of this material, or make any notes therefrom that would reveal any material that is properly classified and deals with intelligence sources and methods. All of the attached material is for your retention *except* file A-12-79-00.

3. Please direct further inquiries about this matter to the undersigned on extension 3767.

![signature of Ruth Elliff]
Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:WEC
Distribution
Orig #1


Addressee, w/atts

1 - C/DCD, wo/atts
1 - C/Staff A, wo/atts
3 - RELLIE
11 - Control

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

From: Walter Lloyd

Information from SEN
under demanded and gave him
available for review on him (July)

Who stored in Miami-

Best is cuing unt - He could be
tragged into Laurent- works for
Anderson

WARREN

3136292

27 July

A 8161

Letter to le
file 10/02

24 Aug

CONFIDENTIAL 092000Z SEP 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13596

TO: PRIORITY DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

TO: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (SPILMAN) FROM HENNESSEY

WNINTEL

SUBJ: FIELD OFFICE ASSISTANCE TO OGC

REF : SPILMAN/MAINWARING TELECON, 9 SEPTEMBER 1975, SAME SUBJECT

1. IN RESPONSE TO A TELEPHONE CALL FROM DEPUTY CHIEF, OCD, ON 23 AUGUST 1975, WE MADE HOTEL RESERVATIONS IN CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA, FOR WALTER LLOYD, OGC, FOR THE NIGHT OF 23 AUGUST. THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE WAS HELD OPEN THAT EVENING FOR A MEETING ATTENDED BY MR. LLOYD, SAMUEL SHERES, US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND WILLIAM WARNER, US DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION. JACK HENNESSEY, DCD/MIAMI, ALSO ATTENDED AND PROVIDED A SHORT GENERAL BRIEFING ON DCD OPERATIONS. FOR THE MOST PART, THE MEETING CONSISTED OF A DISCUSSION OF THE PAST RELATIONSHIP OF MITCHELL L. VERSELL III WITH BKHERALD, ESPECIALLY WITH DCO AS REVEALED IN THE DOD MEMORANDUM TO OGC DATED 3 MARCH 1975.

2. WE WERE ADVISED BY TELEPHONE DURING THE EVENING OF 27 AUGUST BY A. THOMANN, DCD DUTY OFFICER, AND SUBSEQUENTLY BY WALTER LLOYD, THAT LLOYD WOULD VISIT MIAMI AGAIN ON 30 AUGUST IN CONNECTION WITH THE WESSELL CASE. LLOYD DID NOT TASK DCD/MIAMI IN ANY WAY DURING THIS VISIT. HOWEVER, HE DID CHECK IN WITH US LOCALLY BY TELEPHONE UPON ARRIVAL IN THE MIAMI AREA. HE CALLED US AGAIN DURING THE EVENING OF 31 AUGUST AFTER HIS RETURN FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON, D.C., AS A COURTESY SINCE HE DID NOT HAVE THE TIME TO CONTACT US PRIOR TO HIS DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI.

3. MR. LLOYD AGAIN RETURNED TO MIAMI, THIS TIME ONSOARD A USAF JET STAR AIRCRAFT, EARLY ON THE MORNING OF 2 SEPTEMBER. HE CONTACTED US THAT AFTERNOON BY TELEPHONE TO REQUEST THAT WE KEEP OPEN THE FIELD OFFICE SO THAT HE COULD DEPOSIT CLASSIFIED FILES IN OUR VAULT OVERNIGHT. HE APPEARED AT THE FIELD OFFICE AT 1753 HOURS AND BRIEFED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 13506 CONFIDENTIAL

US ON HIS TRAVEL OF THE DAY. HE PLACED TWO FOLDERS OF CLASSIFIED
MATERIAL IN OUR VAULT FOR THE NIGHT, AND RECLAIMED THEM ON THE
FOLLOWING MORNING, 3 SEPTEMBER. IN ADDITION TO MAKING WORKING SPACE
AVAILABLE TO LLOYD FOR A COUPLE OF HOURS DURING THE MORNING OF 3.
SEPTEMBER, WE MADE CURSELVES AVAILABLE FOR ANY FURTHER ASSISTANCE
THAT MIGHT HAVE BEEN REQUIRED THAT DAY. HOWEVER, NOTHING FURTHER
WAS REQUESTED OF US. THE LOCAL OS OFFICE PROVIDED AN ESCORT FOR
LLOYD'S RETURN COMMERCIAL FLIGHT TO WASHINGTON LATER THAT AFTERNOON.
LLOYD ADVISED US IN THE MEANTIME, HOWEVER, THAT THE LOCAL JUDGE
HANDLING THE WERBELL CASE ASKED FOR LLOYD TO APPEAR IN MIAMI AGAIN
DURING THE FOLLOWING WEEK, WHICH APPARENTLY BECAME UNNECESSARY SINCE
WERBELL AND HIS CO-DEFENDANTS WERE ACQUITTED OF ALL CHARGES BY. THE
JURY ON 3 SEPTEMBER.

4. AFTER RECEIVING TWO OR THREE FELEPHONE CALLS FROM AR, SHERES,
   DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, MIAMI, ON 25 AUGUST, DURING WHICH HE ASKED
   FOR BKHERALD INFORMATION HELD IN BEHERALD HEADQUARTERS FILES, US
   SUGGESTED THAT HE CALL LLOYD DIRECTLY AT HIS OGC OFFICE. WE BELIEVE
   THAT THE ATTEMPTED USE OF DCD/MIAMI AS A CHANNEL BY SHERES STEMMED
   FROM THE SEEMING (TO HIM) EXPEDIENT NATURE OF SUCH AN ARRANGEMENT AS
   MUCH AS FROM A PASIC MISUNDERSTANDING OF BKHERALD'S CHAIN OF COMMAND
   AND INFORMATION FLOW STRUCTURE. NEVERTHELESS, NO SUBSTANTIAL
   DIFFICULTIES DEVELOPED DURING THE VISITS TO DOD/MIAMI BY LLOYD,
   E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Watts

Attached is all the material DCD has on Werbel. He has been the subject of several communications between DCD's FIO/PIC staff and OGC and the FIO staff in the DDO.

Also attached is the microfilm-records on an Arnold A. Bayard. I don't think he is the Colonel Bayard referred to in the memo, but it is hard to tell since we don't have any bio data on him.

4.54 (DATE)

FORM NO.
101 REPLACES FORM. 10-101
WHICH MAY BE USED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

OGC 76-0844
24 February 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SOG
Chief, DCD
Chief, LA Division

SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston Werbel Ill

1. I was advised by the Justice Department on 23 February that Werbel has been indicted and the trial is scheduled to begin on 29 March in Miami, Florida. The charges relate to importing and distributing quantities of marijuana. With Werbel's propensity to raise his past affiliations with the Agency, we can anticipate problems during this trial. An additional problem is presented because Werbel is defended by Edwin Marger who was the defense attorney for John Hawk in the B-26 case in Buffalo, New York in 1966. It was Edwin Marger who subpoenaed the CIA General Counsel as a defense witness.

2. The Justice Department has received information that a person either currently or formerly affiliated with the CIA has been participating in Werbel's meetings with his attorney. It would be appreciated if all addressees could review their holdings on Werbel and determine if there is any validity to any recent contacts with him. I would urge that instructions be sent to Miami that no, repeat no, contact with Werbel take place between now and the beginning of the trial.

3. It would be helpful if each addressee could prepare a summary of the various contacts Werbel has had with CIA in the past. Please check to see if you have any information on a Colonel Bayard who was killed-in Atlanta, Georgia during the summer of 1975. Bayard, reportedly an associate of Werbel's, had previous contacts with the Agency. It would be appreciated if your responses could be received by close of business 2 March.

![signature of John K. Greaney]

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

4.54


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

ARCIOLO A. BAYARD

1175 York Avenüe
New York City, New York.

BUSINESS:

Subject is President of the:

1097765 - M. L. Bayard Company, Inc., Philadelphia, Penna.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

F 92744

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

S1 OCT 1961

DATE

4 October 1961

TO:

FROM:
Chief, Contact Division, M
Chief, Personnel Security Division, O3

SUBJECT:

FILE:

Belford, Arnold A. (303030)
A 42744

1. Reference is made to your request for a security clearance on the subject person as a potential source of intelligence information. The necessary checks have been completed with the following results:

a. [ ] No additional information has been obtained, except for such biographical information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b. [x] Information has been received that subject was investigated with favorable results in 1950.

c. [ ] Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

2. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying information you furnished on or as attachment to this memorandum. Should this information be erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be notified immediately.

![signature]

![printed name]
Chief, Research Security Division

![document ID]

4.54


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| SUBJECT'S LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE NAME                                                                   |                                                 |
| BAZARS Arnold A                                                                                                |                                                 |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH:                                                                                       | 29 Nov 1924 - Madison, N. J.                    |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| RESIDENCE(S) (Including Dates, and Places of Birth, Etc.)                                                      |                                                 |
| COMPLETE ADDRESS                                                                                               |                                                 |
| 6656                                                                                                           | 1175 Bar Simms, New York City, N. Y.            |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| EMPLOYMENT                                                                                                     |                                                 |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| Jones                                                                                                          | H. L. Graves Company, Inc. Philadelphia, Penna. |
| (Present date since 1954)                                                                                      |                                                 |
| 579977                                                                                                         |                                                 |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| 92745                                                                                                          |                                                 |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| EDUCATION (List school, dates attending, major & minor)                                                        |                                                 |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| None                                                                                                           | Lehigh University M In Mechanical Engineering   |
|                                                                                                                |                                                 |
| Indicated below is a summarization of known pertinent facts about the subject which are accurate and complete. |                                                 |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

CONFIDENTIAL

3 March 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Washington
Chief, Miami

SUBJECT : Mitchell Livingston Werbell III

1. The attached memorandum was prepared for John Creaney, OGC, who requested a summary of our records on Mitchell L. Werbell III. Werbell is to be tried in March 1976 in Florida on a charge of importing narcotics. OGC anticipates that Werbell may claim some Agency connection because he has done so in the past. Creaney also asked about 400 connec- tions with Colonel Anyard who is mentioned in paragraph 9 of the attached memorandum.

2. OGC has asked that there be no contact with Werbell at least until the trial is over. In view of Werbell's tendency to become involved in schemes with which the Agency cannot afford to be identified, I wish to extend indefinitely the AUSA's injunction against contact with him.

JACKSIAL R. BURTON
Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Attachment: 1/S

Distribution:
2 - Washington
2 - Miami
2 - OGC
1 - C/P&E

DIETKER/kb

CONFIDENTIAL

F2 REPORT CL DT 034152

4.53


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL

2 March 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of General Counsel

ATTENTION : John K. Creaney

VIA : Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT : Mitchell Livingston Werbell III

REFERENCE : OGC 76-0344 dated 24 February 1976

1. A review of DCD records indicated that Mitchell L. Werbell III was an occasional contact and source of this Division from 24 July 1959, when he first initiated the contact, until March 1971. It appears from our records that all of the contacts were at Werbell's volition and that at no time was he viewed as a particularly useful or reliable source. Werbell did provide unsolicited information which was reported by DCD in seven foreign intelligence information reports. In January 1976 DCD responded to a Freedom of Information Inquiry from Werbell. Copies of the documents released to him are available from the DDO/PIC.

2. After meeting with Werbell at his own request in July 1959 the Chief of the Miami Field Office noted in a Memorandum for the Record that little credence could be placed in anything Werbell said. During succeeding contacts Warbell provided information which resulted in the following reports:

a. Photographs of Canarioca Harbor, Cuba (1965)

b. Dope and arms running, Dominican Republic (1965)

c. Planned coup in Guatemala (1966)

d. Political, economic, military situation in Dominican Republic (1966)

e. Planned invasion of Haiti (1966)

f. Planned invasion of Haiti (1966)

g. Venezuelan request for arms (1967)

E2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

4.53


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CONFIDENTIAL 271454Z FEB 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/WASHINGTON 13234

TOR PRIORITY DCD/MIAMI

MAINAR ING FROM ZEIMER

SUBJECT: MITCHELL L. WERBELL, 111

HAS MIAMI FIELO OFFICE HAD ANY CONTACT WITH VERBELL DURING
PAST YEAR? HE WAS LAST CONTACT? E2 MPDET CL BY 238552

CONFIDENTIAL

![date stamp] 12-09-00
FEB 27 10 47 AN 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CONFIDENTIAL 271600Z FEB 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13136.

TO: PRIORITY OCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: OFFICE OF THE CHIEF (ZEIMER)

SUBJ: MITCHELL L. WERBELL, III

REF: DCD/WASHINGTON 13834.

WE HAVE HAD NO RECENT CONTACT WHATSOEVER WITH MITCHELL WERBELL, III. THE LAST CONTACT BY THIS OFFICE WAS A TELEPHONE CALL RECEIVED BY JAY GLEICHAUF ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND DISCUSSED IN MIM-056-71.
E2-IMPDET-CL BY 011568-
CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

12-79-00

Feb 26 3 34 PM 76

CONFIDENTIAL 262306Z FEB 76 STAFF

CITE DOD/WASHINGTON 13825

TO: PRIORITY OCD/MIAMI

FROM ZEIMER

12:09.00

SUBJECT: MITCHELL L. WERBELL III

JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAS ADVISED OGC THAT SUBJECT HAS BEEN INDICTED AND TRIAL WILL BEGIN ON 29 MARCH 1976. THERE MUST BE NO REPEAT NO DOD CONTACT WITH WERDELL EVEN IF HE SHOULD ATTEMPT TO INITIATE THE CONTACT. E2 IMPDET CL BY 838592

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

22 January 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/PIC

ATTENTION : Hal Matter

SUBJECT : P 76-023 - Mitchell Livingston WerBell, III

1. DCD records reflect that Subject has been in contact with the Agency since 1959. The last record of contact with Subject was in March 1971.

2. The documents in DCD's file which pertain to Subject fit into the following categories:

a. CIA Office of Security namecheck data. (OS File Number 27686)

One Slographic data sheet is attached for release to Subject provided those portions marked with brackets are doleted from the released version.

b. Eighteen internal decuments are attached and may be released to Subject provided those portions marked with brackets are deleted from the released versions. Deletions are based on exemptions (j) (1) (b), (j) (1) (d), (j) (1) (e), (j) (1) (f) and (k) (1).

c. Attached are two newspaper articles which pertain to Subject and which may be released to him.

d. DCD also has a document which reflects that Subject provided DCD with 56 black and white photographs taken of the Camarioca Harbor area of Cuba. DCD has neither the originals nor copies of these photographs although they may be retrievable from NPIC. Should Subject request that these photographs be returned to him, we would make every effort to surface them.

E 2 IMPDET CL BY-010650

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: P 76-023 - Mitchell Livingston WerBell, III

A copy of this document is attached and may be released to Subject provided those portions marked with brackets aro deleted from the released version.

e. DCD also has two FR Division cables which pertain to Subject. One is from FR/Atlanta (00349) to Director, dated 11 July 1974. The other is to PR/New York (670514) from NE/ARI/I, dated 17 March 1975.

f. One FBI report (CI-3) 62-108665
DATE: 6 August 1974
TO: Director, CIA
FROM: Director, FBI
Washington, D.C.
SUBJECT: Mitchell Livingston WerBell, III

g. DCD has reference to a report on the Dominican Republic which Subject provided DCD in September 1966. DCD, however, does not have a copy of this document. A notation in our file indicates that the document was sent to OCI/WH/Dominican Desk. DCD records do not reflect the exact title, only that it is a report on the Dominican Republic.

h. Six internal DCD documents which may not be released to Subject. Copies are attached for your information. Denial is based on exemptions (J) (1) (b), (j) (1) (d) and (k) (1).

i. DCD suggests that in answering Subject's request he be informed that Agency records indicate that he willingly provided information that resulted in soven foreign intelligence information reports. Four of these reports recoived advance toletype dissemination. We suggest that Subject be informed that the Agency is reluctant to declassify and release the eleven documents via the mail as such an action would put then in the public domain. Should Subject insist on seeing the documents, DCD will considor sanitizing and showing them to him in the presence of an Agency representative.

j. DCD also has one monorandum for the record which concerns an OGC trace on Subject's sons, dated 16 April 1975. A copy of this document is attached


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: P-76-028 - Mitchell Livingston WerBell, III

for your information. In light of paragraph ono
of OGC 75-4582, dated 10 Decomber 1975, can we
assume that this is not a record?

3. DCD suggests that a statement thanking Subject
   for his cooperation be included in the Agency's response
   to his request.

JACKSON R. HORTON
Chief, Domostic Collection Division

Attachments:
As stated

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - Control
1 - DCD/Privacy
1 - OC/DCD

ro

3

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

1. SUBJECT: LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME
   WERBELL, Mitchell L.

2. ALIASES
   127900

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
   8 March 1913-Philadelphia, Pa.

4. SEX 5. CITIZENSHIP
   Male US

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH. CITIZENSHIP.

7. RESIDENCES (Including No. and Street, Zone, R.F.D., etc.)

| FROM    | TO  | COMPLETE ADDRESS        |
| ------- | --- | ----------------------- |
| Present |     | Powder Springs, Georgia |


CONTINUED

8. EMPLOYMENT

| FROM    | TO  | NAME OF EMPLOYER                          | COMPLETE ADDRESS        |
| ------- | --- | ----------------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Present |     | Leader of Organization to Combat Communiu | Powder Springs, Georgia |
| ?       | ?   | Alexis, Inc.                              | Atlanta, Georgia        |
| ?       | ?   | Cool Roof of Georgia, Inc.                | Atlanta, Georgia        |
| ?       | ?   | Werbell-South, Tic.                       | Atlanta, Georgia        |


CONTINUED

9. EDUCATION (High school, undergraduate work, etc.)

| FROM | TO  | NAME OF SCHOOL | DEGREE OR MAJOR |
| ---- | --- | -------------- | --------------- |

CONTINUED

10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME, CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

E-12-79-00
MIM-008-74

11 January 1974

Chief, Domestic Collection Division
ATTN: Support Branch/OSS (Ryan/lce)

Chief, Miami Field Office

Mitchell L. WerDell, III

REF: OSS-44-74, Dated 8 January 1974

Thank you for referent. For the record, subject has made no further effort to contact anyone in this office; similarly, we plan no attempts to get in touch with him. Thus the matter rests there at this writing. Should he call again, however, we will keep the advice contained in referent in mind in dealing with him.

BRUCE K. MATIMARINO

BEM:mb

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

B 2 IMPORT CL BY 010650


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Chief, Miami Field office
ATTH: Mr. Bruce Halvaring

Chief, Domestic Collection Division (Support Branch/033)
Mitchell L. Vorbell, III

F-12-79-00
033-44-74
8 January 1974

1. We have reviewed subject's 201 file for additional information. Subject was of interest to this Agency in 1959 and was granted a POA in August of that year. This was cancelled in October 1959 when his information proved to be of little value and because it was suspected he was using Agency funds to promote his personal interests. He has subsequently attempted to pass himself off as an Agency employee. He is characterized by the file as unscrupulous, a "wheeler-dealer" and a promoter of grandiose schemes. The subject has been under investigation in 1973 by both the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the United States Customs Service for activities relating to possible mercenary activities in Abaco Island, Bahamas.

2. If the subject should contact your office again, we suggest you accept whatever information he has to offer but make no further commitments concerning Agency contact. Subject is well known to the appropriate look and is of extremely doubtful character.

3. We trust this memorandum will provide you with useful information concerning this subject. Thank you for bringing his name to our attention.

SPRyan for REames/h
cc: Services Br. (Control)
IP Files

FILE: HI-25819

JACKSON N. HORTON

REPORT CL. BY 010830
4.51

INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

Chief, Washington Field Office

Director, Domestic Contact Service

12 July 1972

A-168762

Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs

RE: Van Izer/Marlin telcons

A-127900

1.  Attached for your reference telephone conversations in case of indictment or possible release of certain telephone monitoring information, summarized in your memorandum. Georgia officials differ in that regard, in as much as they all feel Mr. Dorrill is in a tenor of urging the same thing. They all feel it is adverse to this writer (being) compounded in other telcons in file.

2. This writer will so advise several dependable sources who have considerable interest in same. This writer feels informing the committee staff is the vital point. They know, of course, of the telcons as they were furnished a copy; however, same do not emphasize the conversation character or the recognition in the telcons to be used in indictments. This writer feels it is vital to avoid perpetual financial difficulties.

3. Marshall was reached but this writer (only) had a conversation with him wherein Marshall advised "you will not be able to do anything with it". We can not refuse to do it. Marshall is to be advised this writer will furnish protection to the best developing of officials, or otherwise. This writer feels Marshall takes it no other or in minute detail and possible information of additional significance.

4. If we can be of further assistance in this matter, please advise.

Attachment
CJH:rml:111
CC: Services Division (Control)
File: RE 23000

James H. Durkin


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 08 16 March 1971

Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

William Mitchell Livingston, III - Retention of DOD Security Clearance/Recmt. Contact

1.  The information reported in the referenced self-explanatory memorandum, regarding Subject's self-initiated contact with our Miami Field Office, may be of interest.

2.  The Office of the General Counsel and HR Division have been apprised of Subject's recent activities.

3.  Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thornewberry, Ext. 7075.

William J. Vaughan

Enclosure: As stated above

VThornergry

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET

OGC (John Creany)
F12.77-00
MIM-056-71

Director, Docestic Contact Service
ATTN: John McConnell
John Creany (OGC))
Chief, Miami Field Office

Mitchell Livingston Kerbell, III

10 March 1971

1. On 9 Mar 71 we received a long distance call, precumably fre Powder Springs, Georgia, from subject, who is an old and unsavory contact of this office dating from 1959. Werbell has been involved in a variety of pers, the Latest of which concerned an abortive invasion of Haiti which John Creany was very much concerned about a year or so ago.

2. Werbell stated that the Department of Defense had just revoked his security clearance on grounds of Werbell's "frivolous behavior" in the Haitian coper. Werbell stated that he intended to "fight it to the Supreme Court", as he had always kept us and other elements of the US Government informed concerning developments in the Haition witter.

3. Werbell asked if there was anything that we could do for him in the way of interceding for him with the DOD, and we frformed his bluntly and in no uncertain ters that he was strictly on iis can, and we could do nothing for his. He then asked if it would be worthwhile to subpoenal [Bart Comtales]. We informed him that it was up to his attorney to make such recomendacions.

4. Werbell scened to get the message, and then offered to keep us advised regarding an alleged forthcoming attempt on Haiti which is being sponsored by [Rolando Masferrer], even though Masferrer is currently incarcerated in a Federal [prison]. We told Werbell that if he wished to pass any information along we would accept it but under no circumstances should he attempt to clicit any Information on our behalf. He agreed that he would operate on this tasis and cuild he eight be in touch with us again.

5. In view of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should be a matter of record and that OCC should be informed of developments.

[JFG/cea] E.: VThone - 3/15

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

SECRET

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CONFIDENTIAL 331530Z DEC 69 CITE CONTACTS/WASHINGTON 24675

CONTACTS/MIAMI

FROM MCCONNELL

JOHN GREANEY, OCG, WILL BE COMING TO MIAMI MONDAY, 8 DECEMBER, IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRIAL OF THE EIGHT INDIVIDUALS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN THE BOMBING OF PORT-AU-PRINCE.

NEW SUBJECT: (MITCHELL LIVINGSTON MERRELL) OF ATLANTA IS MENTIONED IN A (WASHINGTON POST) ARTICLE TODAY IN CONNECTION WITH ALLEGED RECEIPT OF GUNS SHIPPED FROM VIETNAM THROUGH BOLIN AIR FORCE BASE.

MR. GREANEY SUGGESTS THAT YOU AVOID, IF POSSIBLE, ANY CONTACT WITH WERBELL.

CONFIDENTIAL

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Director, Domestic Contact Service
ATTN: John McConnell
Chief, Miami Field Office

Michhell L. WerBell

Think you will be interested in the attached clippings, which indicate that all charges have been dropped against Werbell.
(Please pass to John Greaney, Office of General Counsel.)

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

JPC:sb

Enclosures

![handwritten notes on the bottom of the page, blurred]

![handwritten notes on the bottom of the page, blurred]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

F-12-79-00

Miami Heatd Herald

24 March 1967

att to me 098.1)
dated 3167 Jul

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

CONFIDENTIAL F12-79-00

Director, Domestic Contact Fervica

ATTH: John MeConnell

Chief, Kical Field Office

Mitchell L. Vorfell A127900

010-67

24 March 1967
HIM-070-07

1.  Vorbeli called the Nical office on 23 Fa of and then told that Bart Conzalez vos pot in, civiced the cocretary that the leveral charge eguinet his had been druppel. to have not confind this. 20 2 intend to renew our contacts with his for the ties beng at least.

2.  Please novice John Oroaney of the office of the Conmal Counzel of this development and give us whatever raaieno ho or you may Lave as to our future roletions with Veneil.

BIOIEM

JUMOI T. GLEICHAR

4.  51

![excluded information] Exched

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

CONFIDENTIAL E12-79-003

Director, Domestic Contact Service

ATTN: John McConnell

Chief, Nical Field Office

2 March 1967

HDI-060-67

Mitchell L. Hardell A-127900

1. You will recall that John Greeney of the Office of General Counsel was in Miami for several days in connection with the federal case pending against subject Verdell was indicted on federal conspiracy charges growing out of the abortive invasion attempt of Haiti a short time ago.

2. Following the indictment Verdell called us and indicated that he was to be interviewed on "nationwide TV through station WSB-TV in Atlanta." We called Harry McCrea and asked him to monitor local coverage, and WSB covered the NBC stations for a period of several days. Verdell did not appear on a national hookup, but Harry McCrea informed us that he did appear on a two-minute taped comment on the WSB-TV, 6:25 A.M. telecast only. Verdell said he would, if he could, "make a citizen's arrest of Dwight Eisenhower, Jean Rerone, et al, because he did no more than they did." Harry said that he didn't believe that the station took his statement seriously.

3. Verdell was also interviewed by "The Atlanta Constitution", and we are enclosing a clipping from the "Constitution" of 20 Feb 67 in which Verdell is quoted concerning the indictment.

4. Would you please pass the above to John Greeney. You might inform him that the statement of an undesignated federal official in Miami undoubtedly refers to the Customs agent in charge, with whom Verdell had a conversation prior to calling us. Verdell quoted him in the same fashion in our conversation. We have had no further contact with Verdell.

JIG:pw

Enclosures: As stated

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

CONFIDENTIAL

4:51

![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

SECRET 2314322 CITECONTACTO/MIAMI 1714

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

SUBJECT: ALLEGED ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT

ACER A. MIAMI 1710

MC CONNELL/CLEICHAUF TELCONS OF 21 FEB AND 23 FEB 67

BITCHELL VER BELL CALLED ART GONZALES YESTERDAY TO ADVISE THAT HE HAD RECEIVED TWO PHONE CALLS FROM CHET GRAY EXPRESSING CONCERN OVER THE FACT THAT NO ONE HAD CONTACTED HIM FOR DETAILS CONCERNING THE ALLEGED ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT REFERRED TO IN MIAMI 1716. PAY STATED THAT UNLESS HE HEARD FROM SOMEBODY IMMEDIATELY, COULD TAKE HIS INFORMATION TO THE GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA ON THE MORNING OF 23 FEB 67. WE CURRENTLY HAVE AN ADDRESS FOR GRAY:

124 LERTH OAKHURST DRIVE, BEVERLY HILLS, TALE: 274-4922.

SIZOHET

![photo of handwriting that states 'Copy F/# B-67-59 (Chet Gray)']

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Chief, Personnel Security Division, 08

ATT: Mr. Leland Dunn
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

WOTESTA, Mitchell J. -- Communication from
re: Alliance Authentication
re: Foreign Diplomat

REF: DCD memorandum dated 21 February 1967, date subject

1. Please forward a copy of the enclosed communication to Mr. Tom Pepich. Mr. Pepich was informed of this matter by phone on 23 February 1967.

2. Any questions pertaining to this communication should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Extension

![document logo]

Enclosure: As stated above

CC: Mr. Tom Pepich

VThorne:pat

4,51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

DIARY, 23 February 1967

SUBJECT: Mitchell Verbell/Chet Gray A-127700 B-67-52

[Sleichauf] called to say that Verbell had heard from [Gray] both yesterday and the day before expressing concern over the fact that he had contacted him concerning the alleged assassination attempt against a foreign diplomat. [Gray] stated that unless he heard from someone immediately he would go to the Governor of California, 23 February. This information was passed to Sam Yorty by phone.

cc: Chief, Miami Office

M McConneling

B-67-41

Copy, all jackets!

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

Chief, Personnel Security Division, OS

21 February 1967

Mr. Leland Puna
Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

WIRELL, Mitchell L. Recent Telephone Call from Chet GUY of Los Angeles re Possible assassination in US of Close Relative of Middle East Ruler

A 127900

1.  The enclosed copy of teletype from our Miami Field Office is forwarded for your information and immediate transmittal to the FBI.

2. Mr. John McConnell, of this Office, has discussed this matter with Mr. Sam Papich, FBI, who said the FBI will contact Subject and Gill, and will subsequently advise us of any action they might want us to take.

3. Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, Ext. 2753.

B. FROM YORIO

Enclosure: Teletype Contacts/Miami-1715 dated 20 February 1967

VThorne:pat

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

Law Offices
of
# Edwin Marger

Edwin Marger (Fla. & Ga.)
Reid Kennedy (Ga. & Ga.)
Richard A. Garcia
Robert O. Davies
Donald B. Walker
Nancy L. Finkel
Allan J. Hall (Fla. & Ga.)
of Counsel
P 76-028

Telephone: 256-6258
Area Code (404)
Suite 320
6666 Powers Ferry Road
Atlanta, Georgia 30339

December 30, 1975

Gene F. Wilson,
Information and Privacy Coordinator
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Reference is made to your letter of December 18th, 1975 concerning our client, Mitchell Livingston WerBell, III and his request for information under the Freedom of Information Act.

I am enclosing a notarized statement providing you with the address and place of birth of Mr. WerBell.

With regard to your last paragraph asking for clarification as to which records he desires to have searched, we, of course, are not familiar with your files or filing system. Mr. WerBell spent sometime in the United States Army during World War II and has traveled extensively since that time. He was in Cuba at the time of the Castro military operation, in the Dominican Republic during that military operation and in Thailand and Viet Nam during the Viet Nam War. We feel quite confident your office must have extensive files and documentation concerning Mr. WerBell and this request for information is intended to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

Gene F. Wilson
December 30, 1975
Page Two

cover all information contained in the files of your agency.

Should any of the matter contained in your files have a security clearance classification that would preclude its dissemination, we would appreciate being notified that the information exists.

We would appreciate your early attention to the foregoing.

Very truly yours,

![Signature of Reid Kennedy]

Reid Kennedy

RK:den
Enclosure (1)

4.49.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

AFFIDAVIT

STATE OF GEORGIA: SS
COUNTY OF FULTON:

I, MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III, after first being duly sworn, do hereby, under oath, depose and say that my current address is 4321 MacLand Dallas Road, Powder Springs, Georgia, 37007. Further, that I was born on March 8, 1918, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

I further swear and affirm that I am the same MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III, whose signature appears below and that I am the same person who is making the request for release of information.

![signature of MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III]
MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL, III

Sworn to and Subscribed before me, Notary Public, on the 31st day of December 1965.

![signature of Notary Public]
Notary Public-Georgia State at Large

My Commission expires:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

[E12-79-00]

SECRET

SECRET 2219373 CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1718

CONTACT/WASHINGTON

ATTN: MCCONNELL

FROM: CLEICHAUN

A127900

1. WE HAVE RECEIVED A MOST UNUSUAL PHONE CALL FROM MITCHELL VERDELL, POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WHICH FOLLOW:

2. VERDELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN IN OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959.

WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. HE FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS OF THE RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY [HART].

[GONZALES] FROM HIM AT 1428 HOURS OF 18 FEBRUARY. HE STATED THAT HE HAD JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM [CLAY GRAY OF LOS ANGELES], NO ADDRESS

June 8-67-57

3. [GRAY] STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE RELATIVE, POSSIBLY A BROTHER OR SON, OF A MIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT 12 DAYS.

HE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIM, NOR BY WHOM HE WAS APPROACHED. [GRAY] TOLD VERDELL THAT HE DID NOT WANT TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

PAGE 2 CONTACTS/MIMI 1719 SECRET
REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED VERDELL FOR ADVICE. WER BELL ADVISED GRAY

TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.
VERDELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE WILLING TO TALK WITH A
MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGREED. VERDELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A
REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIM, VERDELL'S NAME WOULD BE
USED AS ENTREE.

4. THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS,"
   BUT I DID MEET A GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S
   HOUSE IN 1963, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ARE CONTAINED IN CUA(S)5691
   AND COA(S) 5694 DATED 16 DEC 62. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM
   AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPROACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

5a. PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT.

SECRET
ST


4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

PRIORITY VA CITS 14 1048.

SUBJECT: RUMORED ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT ON FIDEL CASTRO

REF: AIR 677-65 OF 17 DEC [A-127902]

1. MITCHELL VERTFEUIL ADVISES [ ] THAT A GROUP OF CIA MEN IN HIS ORGANIZATION HAS PENETRATED CUBA AND IS CURRENTLY IN THE VARADERO/HAVANA AREA. PRINCIPAL PURPOSE IS ASSASSINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO TO BE ATTEMPTED WITHIN 3-45 JANUARY. IF FOUND NOT POSSIBLE, SECONDARY TARGET WILL BE TO BLOW UP THE ELECTRIC PLANT FURNISHING ELECTRICITY TO HAVANA.

2. THE GROUP IS TO USE AN AIRPLANE MODEL TYPE OF RADIO DETONATORS. THEY WERE UNABLE TO PROVIDE CONTROLLED FREQUENCY RADIO DETONATORS WHICH WERE PREFERRED OF HIGHER QUALITY. THE DETONATOR ALLEGEDLY WILL BE TRIGGERED AT TIMES OR THEY WILL USE SUD-MACHINE GUNS IN THE COURSE OF A PUBLIC APPEARANCE BY CASTRO. NO INDICATION AS TO HOW THEY KNOW WHEN HE WILL APPEAR. GROUP SAID TO KNOW MISSION IS SUICIDAL.

3. ATTEMPT ON A NARCOTIC PLANT WILL BE TO KILL GUARDS AND PENETRATE AREA FOLLOW WHIGH THEY WILL BLOW UP KEY EQUIPMENT.

4. GENDELL SAID THAT HE [ ] ALSO ALLEGEDLY HAS A GROUP IN CUBA AT PRESENT FOR THE PURPOSE OF ASSASSINATING FIDEL CASTRO.

5. PLEASE HANDLE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT. FYI: GENDELL IS A NOTORIOUS CON MAN AND A USER OF TORTURE TYPE. HE IS CONSIDERED UNRELIABLE.

---

OFA 1208 FC COMPELLER FISEL CASTRO AIR 677 65 17 DEC 65 MITCHELL VENTFEUIL
BARE CONCEALS A CUBA WARRIOR HAVANA 9 JANUARY NOT POSSIBLE
UNABLE TO DO INDICATE.... FYI: CON CONSIDERING UNRELIABLE

[ ]

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

Chief, Contact Division
Index Branch
Chief, Mismi Field Office

Memorandum of Visit to Mitchell Warbell III
2211 Segovia Circle
Coral Gables, Florida

27 July 1959

1. In the evening of 24 July 1959 I received a telephone call from subject, who had been given my name and address by another segment of the intelligence community in connection with the possibility of his passing along late information concerning the rumored impending flight of Batista to the US.

2. Warbell indicated that he spent a great amount of his time in the Dominican Republic and had extremely close association with leaders of the government, and also with General Jose Pedraza. He claimed to have been a former member of the 033 with service in China in WWII. Warbell is a soldier-of-fortune type who wears a monocle, drives a Mercedes-Benz, sports a most attractive blonde girl friend, and is a Big Spender. He also volunteered that he has a wife and six children living in Georgia.

3. Werbell told me that his principle source of income is in dealing with Cuban pesos, and said that he is associated in the business with a John Lipke of Garber bands.

4. Lipko also claims to have been a member of 033 during WWII, serving in the Rumanian and Eastern European area. Lipko was busily engaged in making long distance phone calls to Mexico City, Guatemala City, and Los Angeles during a part of the time I was with the group.

5. Warbell gave me some information on Batista's plans, which is basically supposition, and furnished some other marginal information which is being forwarded, although in my opinion little credence can be placed in anything he says. It is hard to evaluate what Warbell's motives are in connection with his desire to furnish information regarding Batista to us, but it appeared that he was also attempting to fish for information, throwing out a number of questions concerning the Biltmore Terrace Hotel, reportedly recently to have been purchased by Cuban interests with 9 million Cuban pesos. The penthouse reportedly has been completely redecorated, with heavy steel doors guarding the entrance. This penthouse suite has been rumored to be Batista's intended headquarters once he arrives in the US. All of this has been written about in the gossip columns of the local papers.

6. Inasmuch as Warbell has my name and phone number, probably little can be done to prevent him getting in touch with me from time to time, but contact will not be initiated by me except by direction. The basic purpose of this memo is for the record.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# The Allania Lomna
Covers Dixie Like the Dew
Since 1883
James M. Coe, Chairman 1939-1937-10's M Cox Jr.. Chair 19371974
Jack Tarver, President Jack Spalding, Edits
22-A***** APRIL 9, 1975

## The Need for MARTOC

THE POSSIBILITIES of MARTA bot good and bad are tremdous. On good side the area pieds a rapid and economical transporation system. The ea also cords az construction proje.

When MARTA was ablished it. was apparent that the ed it would bring was balance by de tremendous possibilities for patrage and featherbedding. So a corphittee was established by the Guter Assembly to oversee MARTA and was called MARTOC.

The area peds MARTA Tut it now needs MAEROC as never beige.

Laber contract time is coming up for MARTA and upon its chrome rides the fate of the 15-cent fare The chatirman of MARTA's board is Jeen Wright, a labor man, acc have faith in Mr. Wright not that he would stul we're happy that betching. MARTA into problemis deta tion of es rait sute with condemnation other with lig ther is insure bat mean more dei mire more wond ciency of the ope ati

MARTA's heard is se the hyidling of there today board isnt قة yesterday's. We're arogant to backspa cofumittee is aware e!: duties here.

## Which Domino Is Next

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

F.12-79-00

18 April 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Werbell

1. On 17 April 1975, Annet, DDO/FIO, called DCD on the green line to relay the following OGC priority request.

Please check Agency records for:

a. Mitchell Werbell, IV
DPOB: 16 November 1949; Atlanta, Georgia

b. Godfrey Werbell
DPOB: 21 June 1951; Atlanta, Georgia

These two have been charged with crimes...
alleged they work for CIA.

2. After checking DCD's records I found that DCD has had contact with Subject's father in the past. DCD's records reflect no direct contact with the sons. The only mention of the sons appears in an article published in The Washington Post, 27 December 1970, Section D, page 3 and a cable to FR/NY, 17 March 1975 (Director 670514).

3. DDO/FIO was notified of the above by telephone on 17 April 1975.

Rose O'Toole

Distribution:

Orig. - A 127900

1- DCD/FOIA

1- OC/DCD

14.40

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

OMF 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: NE 10 INFO: FILE 11/AM FRS, DCD2 LSN/ID

TO: FR/NEW YORK. Y

AJAJA FORRES Y

REF: FR/NEW YORK 30417 [IN 511214] Y

1. NO ADDITIONAL HOS TRACES ON EDGAR LEMMENS AND CO. OTHER THAN CONFIRMATION THAT IT LICENSED DEALER OF ARMS LOCATED IN/TIRLEMONT,
   BELGIUM AND THAT IT IMPORTED FROM NEW YORK TO BELGIUM A SILENT SUB-MACHINE GUN WHICH LATER SHOWED UP IN SPAIN CONNECTED WITH BASQUE ASSASSINATION.

2. MICHELL L. WERBELL, III (201-259910) IS PARTNER OF DEFENSE SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL INC. OF POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA A LICENSED ARMS DEALER. HE BORN 8 MAR 1918, PHILADELPHIA. HAS HAS *LENGHTOY* 201 ON WERBELL WHO HAS LONG HISTORY POPPING UP IN AREAS AND SITUATIONS WHERE CAN MAKE FEU FAST BUCKS. HE CHARACTERIZED AS UNSCRUPULOUS, WHEELER-DEALER AND PROMOTER OF GRANDIOSE SCHEMES. HE OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN MID-1959 WHEN BECAME INVOLVED UITH ANTI-CASTRO PLOTTERS IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND OFFERED PROVIDE SKHERALD WITH INFO ON REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES IN CARIBBEAN. HE GRANTED POA IN AUGUST 1959 BUT THIS CANCELLED OCTOBER 1959 WHEN HIS INFO PROVED BE OF


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECRET

STAFF CONF INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

670514

LITTLE VALUE AND IT SUSPECTED THAT HE USING BKHERALDA FUNDS TO PROMOTE PERSONAL INTERESTS. EVER SINCE, BKHERALD HAS BEEN DIS-
CLAIMING WERBELL WHO HAS REPEATEDLY ATTEMPTED PROMOTE SELF AS REP OF LNBUZZ AND BKHERALD. SINCE MUCH OF BKHERALD INFO ON WERBELL ORIGINATES LNERGO, NE SUGGEST LNERGO REP/NEW YORK PERFORM TRACE THROUGH HIS OFFICIAL CHANNEL. CABOVE INFO MAY NOT BE PASSED FOREIGN NATIONALS BECAUSE WERBELL WODUAL CITIZEN. Y

3. ONLY TRACE ON MITCHELL WERBELL IV IS THAT HE ALSO INVOLVED FATHER'S IN/9839938 ARMS BUSINESS TRADE. HE HAS HAD NO CONNECTION WITH BKHERALD. Y

4. FILE: 201-918247, E2 IMPDET.H

DATE: 17 MARCH 1975
ORIG: WENDY RAHMAN
UNIT: NE/ARN/I
EXT: R 1386


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# SECRET

CARLE BRC DISSEM

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 14/1

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

STAFF

ACTION UNIT

FILE

ACTION

F-12-79-00

T 256357

E1A471

PAGE 01

IN 324568

TORI:120552 JUL 74

ATFR 02349

SECRET 1122802 JUL 74 STAFF

CITE FR/ATLANTA 00349

TOI DIRECTOR,

RYBAT ISOLOG

1. GEORGE KENNY, FBI SPECIAL AGENT IN ATLANTA, HAS ADVISED BASE THAT HOWARD GIBSON HEAD OF ATLANTA BASE CENTRAL INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY OFFICE IN WASHINGTON AND FORMER SUBURBAN ATLANTA (C0B2 COUNTY) COP ADVISED HIM BY TELEPHONE THAT WASHINGTON OFFICE SUBLEASED BY HIM TO DRUG ENFORCEMENT AGENCY BEING USED BY DKHERALD AS ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE LP. GIBSON CLAIMS OFFICE IN CHARGE EKHERALD OFFICER WHOSE NAME GARBLED ON PHONE. KENNY BELIEVES NAME MAY BE CORDEN, OFFICE IS LOCATED 4 OR 5 BLOCKS FROM WHITE HOUSE, KENRY WILL ATTEMPT ODTAIN ADDRESS.

2. OWNER CENTRAL INVESTIGATIVE AGENCY IS ATLANTAN MITCHELL WORBELL, LOCAL GUN RUNNER AND PRIVATE EYE ON WHOM DOD NAS REPORTED. WERBELL AND GIBSON CURRENTLY IN LITIGATION FOR UNSNEWS REASON. FBI AGENT KENNY STATES GIBSON PROBABLY CAPABLE SURELDING PARA 1 STORY WIDELY AS MEANS EMBARRASS WORBELL.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Steve Van Cleave

FROM:

William D. Pangburn, Atlanta RO

NO.

ATL-78-74

DATE

21 June 1974

TO: (Office designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICER'S INITIALS

COMMENTS (Enter each comment to show action to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. Support Branch/OSS Attn: Grant

Lillifan:

Reference cur telecon of 6/21/74.
This is the unedited transcript we discussed. The Tape has been cleared and this in the only copy.

Regards.


437


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# TELL OR COVERSATIOS BETSEEDS PETERSON AND VAN CLEAVE - Tuesday, 6/18/74, 1:32

I had heard a rumor that, I thought at the time that these guys, these idiots can't be doing this again, but in the last weck I have picked up a great deal of information that I think needs to be known at this location that involves the Worbeil group out of Powder Springs. Are you familiar with that name? [So, I'm not. Zill has been handling all of that and I just don't know anything about it:, Mr. Van Cleave. You can give me what information you have and I will pass it on or do what we can, but Bill has been handling that entirely and we work differes: accounts and I'm sorry to say that I am totally unfamiliar with it.] Well, let ze put it to you this way. Is there any way at all that you will be in touch with Bill, so that I could get this information to him by phone. [Well, he is up in Tennessee and we can get in touch with him, yes. I could give him a call.] Well let ze zive you a brief synopsis so that you can at least pass that on to him.

And in the process, I'll have to give you a bit of background on this subject. : consider it very important, not from the standpoint of the fact that what these people are involved in now is starting to break, but I think it is extremely faportant that this location gets something in to indicate that their contact lens them know what is going on. Mitchell Worbel is a gun dealer basically. He has what is called a farm out at Powder Springs, Georgia. Basically, it is a place of property with a lake and a firing range and a big house and a gun shop below and a vanit with about three thousand Ingram subanchine guns and other assorted weapons. How Werbell has been in and out of all kinds of things. He pops up al over, He loves publicity and he loves to imply a relationship with the Agency.

Now, about a year ago they were involved with some people from Britain in an attempt to set up a secession of the Island of Abaco, at the time the Bahszes were : granted their independence. Now this was a very serious thing; there were people including rambers of Parliment from London that came over here and they were g to have a small army on Abaco and the local settlers on Abaco were all for this because they were mostly wistte and the thing never got off the ground at thar cire. However, it was known, there were newspapers articles written about it. Fendling, the Prime Minister of the Bahamas vas incensed by this whole schere basically. If you could think of anything that would be against the best inccres: of the US as the Agency and everybody, it would be some idiotte echers 1٤٠٠٠٠٠٠

I berdafusor ft this thing and bes
Id Bill told har thought wit


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

2

suddenly growa bigger. And to be more specific about this, when I say that. I
can tell you that it is a fact that last Thursday night the new Ambassador frem
the Bahamas in Washington got Congressman Andrew Young to one side at a reception
and they discussed this matter with grave seriousness. OK, now, therefore I am
positive that within certain circles in Washington this matter is being discussed
at this moment. Now I also learned that last week the whole group of the Warbells
and their associates were in Washington and I'll give you the names that I know :
for sure: Mike Oliver, who is a key figure in this. He represents several wealthy
Americans and Britishers who have long had a dream of having their own island ac
establishing their own country. Now this sounds like something right out of cheap
fiction; however, it is a fact. I have met Mike Oliver. And there are about six
wealthy individuais, one of whom I think lives in tise Bahamas, I believe two are
in England, one of then I think is Lord Bellhaven who is a member of Parliament.
He has been over to the farm recently and In Washington a few weeks ago with this.
About three wealthy Americans, all older fellows with many millions. Now this
thing came up once before about eight years ago when they bought a boat and Oliver
went out into the Pacific and laid claim to the cocal reef in the Samoan Islands I
think it was and planted a flag on it and established the free soverign state of
Menerva, Life Magazine had a spread on this. And that lasted for about a week
until the King of Samos, or somebody, nose Tribal King sent. [end of side of tapej

putting aside a piece of Nicaraguan soil and giving it extra territorial rights
and I know they have money. To make a long story short, Oliver is involved in
this. He came in, I understand, two weeks after the Bahamas got their independence
and said we've got the money for the Abaco operation. Now I have it on goci
source from an informant in their organization that a south or so ago a U-Haul truck
came up from Fort Lauderdale in the middle of the nigin and loaded up a bunch of
guns and explosives and took them to Fort Lauderdale. The name of the man whe
drove the truck was Wally Gillis. He is a freelancer soldier of fortune type and

a bout - you know, a good sized cruiser, can go to the Bahamas or wherever.
Supposedly this material
being involved down there it !!
to narcoties people he ispitet artis aired everes and t...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

Weck was Mike Oliver, Mitchell Verbell, III, retired Colonel Robert Bayard, US
Army who also lives in this area and is associated with Worbell and a fellow
naced Chuck Hall who is a resident of the Bahamas in Nassau, who is a key part
of this operation. And I don't know who else but they were staying for several
days at the Gramercy Inn, Washington. It is my understanding that they made
contact there with a former agent of your organization, with an offer of
substantial amounts of money for him to recruit covert types, para-military
types, technicians in effect, mercenaries. And I have reason to believe tha:
he is reporting this information. I certainly hope so. So again, what I am
showing you is that I think stuff is coming into Washington right fast. Now
Werbell has been known to drop Mr. Colby's name to me and to many other people
because he wangled Werbell originally was in the OSS you know. So he has a
lot of old friends who are OSS Lypes in those days and I understand one of these..
old boys did Ad have dinner with Colby and Werbell wangled his way into it a couple
of months ago In Washington, So, that is all he needs to start dropping names
like mad. He does know some people in and former people. Now I understand that
they have also made contacts in Miami recently with two companies who manufacture
electronic equipment and used the name of another former Agency man who is now
with the DS DEA in Washington. Again, I have an informant in the organization whe
is about ready to break with them and he has told me all this. He was in the
office when calls were made to these people, talking about buying electronic
equipment which is illegal and using the name of this former Agency man in the
DEA and indicating that they would like to see the equipment, that he'll probably
arrange to buy some, that type of thing. And I know for a fact that that individual
knows about this now and he in a good man and in good standing with everybody.
But to summarize this, the point is this the whole thing is idiotic scheme by
a bunch of fools. It Is financed by some wealthy idiots, you know, who have
money and are behind the scenes and these fools in other words, if someone came
wouldn't touch it with a 10 foot pole because it is totally against the interests
of hori bovaromonts inywed. Even the silightest leak on it can cause a sericas
diplomatte probles, you lood, regardless of how cray it is, the fact is an
involveont of this top levalving Americans, anything that comes out, the first
colug that is gelo, to be to an Agency Luvolve
ks this the land of
it


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

is that it?] Yes. You see the Bahamas - I don't know how familiar you are with them, but they don't have an army or anything. They have a small police force and they have some small police boats, little 30 foot jobs that run around the Islands, and they are talking about establishing ... [Aren't they still under the British protection for foreign troops?] I would certainly think so, but there are no troops stationed there; you follow me? But what I am trying to say is the implications of this thing which I know now are known in Washington by people. When you have the Bahamian Ambassador, the new Ambassador, getting a black American congressman from Georgia aside - you see these people talk a lot, that is another reason - anybody involved with them is crazy. They have all kinds of these mercenary types and they make calls all over in Miami and all over the world and talk about their schemes and it has broken somewhere, you know, along the line; probably in the Bahamas or Miami. [Well do we know now what the essence of the conversation was between the Ambassador and Young?] I think it expressed grave concern about this situation. I think some names were given of the people. You see they know who Werbell is because Pendling, in fact, one time made a very tough speech about this type of thing with the American intervention in the affairs of the Bahamas and the name Werbell is an international soldier of fortune. I am concerned about one thing: No. 1, I know it isn't going to get off the ground, now. I knew it never would. It might have got off the ground but the thing is it's one of these things that could be so messy and opponents, let's say people on the other side would love something like this so they could capitalize on it forever - you know, reports hinting at secret involvement of an American intelligence agency and attempts to establish a base in the Bahamas. A good propagandist could just have a field day with this. So I have a feeling that unless I am really crazy I think people in your organization are aware at this moment of this thing surfacing in Washington. And that is why I am calling this office because I have given information here before on these people and I think that it's important that if somebody says - Hey, have you guys heard anything about them and you fellows say no, we haven't heard anything - you know. [Well you real in your own mind that this is something that will come about in the very near future, this attempt?] No, I would have to say I have a feeling now the attempt will not come about at all. If enough people in Washington start asking questions and they do know the names of these people and if the former agent up there goes in and gives information to somebody naming the people, you come to ask, what's the amount of money they offered.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

him to recruit people for this. That's why they were in Washington last week.

This fellow lives up there and he is now in the function of a private investigator
but he is a former agent of your organization. So I just want to be sure that if
fellows down here, you know, if someone asks a question, or if they don't then at
least you throw a report in indicating that an informant here, namely me, and b
name, has given you this information. Because there is another factor involved
too. Werbell - see Bill knows about my relationship with him. I was forced to
take Werbell to Argentina last year for a private client of mine. One of the
Board of Directors thought he was the greatest international thing in the world
and he was the biggest millstone I have ever had around my neck. I was down there
defending against the ERP terrorist group and Werbell was running all over Buenos
Aires with smugglers and prostitutes and everybody and dropping our names and
getting drunk and hinting that we were big American secret agents. He stayed on
after I left and nearly got picked up by the Federal police. They were friends
of mine I might add, so I got every situation cleared down there. But he loves to
talk to me. I do international security work for corporations and he wanted to
get involved with me in business and I refused to have anything to do with him
you know. But he loves to get drunk and call me and brag. And he called re
several months ago and told me he was working with a group in Bolivia and I said
I hope it is the government. And he said Oh no, it's the other guys And I
well Mitch, you're crazy. It's not up to any private citizen or private organizati
to go anywhere in the world and get involved with people against the government.
It just is trouble, that's all there is to it. And I forgot about that and he
called me the morning after the attempted coup (ph) down there and named his
source there as Lt. Colonel Gary Prado and as it turns out Prado was one of the
two leaders of the attempted coup and he had shipped guns down there through
New Orleans, through an intermediary named Phillips, and here again - well
frankly, Bonzaire his General, Hugo Bonzaire, the strong man of Bolivia, and I
don't think we have bad relations with them. In fact, he is getting closer to

5

strong men down there and it is a known fact that he hates communist and he
senas the troops out to kill them so what should anybody be doing trying to
overthrow an anti-communist government. I'm an old country boy but that just
doesn't make sense to me. Furthermore a private individual. So because I guess
when they break up...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

they, round up everybody and Interrogate then and say where did you got the guns
they, find Ingrams and Ingrams only come from Werbell and then you have State
Department you know, saying what is thin, do you know who, down here trying to
overthrow our government. And since Prado, by the way was leader of the tropps
that captured Shay Dravarro (ph) than once again you get into a good left-sing
Journalist can really weave a nice little story of that big bad Agency down there
doing things again. So he is like a mosquito in that he doesn't accomplish
anything but he is very dangerous in my opinion to our relations. Bad enough to
mess up good things. [I will pass this on to Bill.] Well tell him this, that
I was in Washington last week and let me emphasize again that I would be the cos:
surprised person in the world if Senior Officers at Langley aren't aware as of
the Friday, of this situation and through the Washington surfacing there, you
follow me? And really I like Bill and what I'm trying to do, I'm putting aysele
in his position and this is his area and I know that reports, because I have
talked to him before about them and I am sure that this has been made a matter
of record. And I just think it would be nice for Bill to be able to say yes, y
Informatit has given me information this information. Because it will all tie
in. You might mention too that within the last two months Werbell has visited
Vesco in Costa Rica and after that visit a Vesco associate named Marino came up
here from Panama and stayed at Werbell's. So he is dealing now with Vesco too and
all of this is just nothing but bad. And he is implying, he talks to newspaper
people and writers and he does Imply and use names that he is not authorized to
use and shouldn't use. I know that he is not an official or unofficial or anything
else connected with your Agency but this is the way he is surviving. People are
dealing with him thinking that really he is there are enough problems happening
as it is but all we need is one good left-wing newspaper om to get hold of this
type of thing and get it in Jack Anderson's coluen or some place like that and
have an official blast from the government of the Bahamas and then everybody in
the world is going to think that the. Agency was behind this and got caught. The
Appreciateしい CHES, LHASん。 JBL LInk he end of next
week is going to be a little bit late because there night even be sobe public
surfacing of this. So I think it is important that they are that this office
des have access to front. I can be reached at av Bucher here which is
254 7593 or at my home, which is 217-2474.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

14-00000

12-77-00

CONFIDENTIAL 351345Z MAR 24 STAFF

CITE DCD/31491 12494

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: SUPPORT BRANCH/OSS (GRANT) A 182014

SUBJ: STEVEN VAN CLEAVE, INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, LTD., ATLANTA, GEORGIA

REF: GRANT/HENNESSEY TELLCON, 25 FEBRUARY, SAME SUBJECT

1. DURING THE AFTERNOON OF 21 JANUARY 1974 WE RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM ANSELMO ALLEGRO, 3551 FOCKERMAN ROAD, MIAMI, FLORIDA, (A CONTACT OF THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE) WHO ADVISED US THAT AN ACQUAINTANCE OF HIS IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA, STEVEN VAN CLEAVE, WANTED TO SPEAK WITH US IN CONNECTION WITH INTELLIGENCE MATTERS CONCERNING LATIN AMERICA. WE TOLD ALLEGRO THAT VAN CLEAVE SHOULD CONTACT OUR OFFICE IN ATLANTA; HOWEVER, ALLEGRO SAID THAT VAN CLEAVE DIDN'T WANT TO DEAL WITH "RECRUITERS", RATHER HE WANTED TO SPEAK WITH A CIA OFFICER "IN THE BUSINESS OF INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION". WE TOLD ALLEGRO THAT OUR ATLANTA OFFICE HAS THE SAME STATURE AS THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE, AND THAT HE SHOULD URGE VAN CLEAVE TO CONTACT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN ATLANTA. ALLEGRO WOULDN'T ACCEPT THIS RESPONSE ON OUR PART AND INSISTED THAT WE AT LEAST HEAR WHAT VAN CLEAVE HAD TO SAY. FINALLY, WE AGREED TO ACCEPT A CALL FROM VAN CLEAVE SO THAT WE COULD TELL HIM TO CONTACT OUR ATLANTA REPRESENTATIVE.

4.36


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 12494 CONFIDENTIAL

2. VAH CLEAVE CALLED US AT HIS EXPENSE FROM ATLANTA AEOUT
   FIVE MINUTES LATEK. WE ADVISED HIM AT THE CUTSET THAT HE
   SHOULD SPEAK WITH BILL PANGEURN IN THE ATLANTA PESIDENT OFFICE
   AT FIS EARLIEST CONVENIENCE. WE EXPLAINED THAT OUR WORK FORCE
   IS DIVIDED GEOGRAPHICALLY RATHER THAN FLACTICALLY, AND THAT
   SINCE DHE LIVES IN ATLANTA, HE MUST DEAL WITH THE ATLANTA RO.
   PROVIDED HIM WITH THE TELEPHONE NUMEER FOR THE MILANTA EO, AND
   HE INDICATED THAT HE WOULD CONTACT PANELEN THE SAME DAY. WE
   CALLED PANSEUAN TO ADVISE HIM OF VAN CLEAVE'S INTENTION TO
   CONTACT FIS. VE LATER LEARNED FROM ECTH PANGPUEN AND VAN CLEVE
   THAT THE COSTICT WAS MADE.

3. WE PRESUMED THAT WE HOLLD HAVE NO FURTHEP CONTACT WITH
   VAN CLEAVE. POWEVER, WE WERE MISTAKEN. VAN CLEAVE PLACED T
   LEAST TWO MORE TELEPHONE CALSS TO US FROM ATLANTA CAT MIS
   EXPENSE), AND ONE FROM SADE COUNTY, FLORITA. EACH TIME WE
   ADVISED HIM TO CALL FANGELEM FATHER THAN US. RIS RESPONSE 08
   THESE OCCASIONS WAS THAT HE ALSZASY FAD OR INTENDED TO YOEF
   PANGBURN ADVISED BUT THAT KE WANTED TO KEEP LO INFORMED ALSO.
   THE LOCAL CADE COUNTY CALL WAS MADE TO ADVISE US THAT VAN
   CLEAVE WAS IN MIAMI IN THE COMPANY OF THE RECENTINE POLICE
   OFFICIALS, WHOM WE COULD DEELIEF IF WE 50 0251.10. WE AGAIN
   TOLD HIM THAT HE COULD REPORT TO SILENTA.

4.36


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

PAGE 5 DCD/MIAMI J2494 CONFIDENTIAL A127900
A164

4. VAN CLEAVE TOLD US DURING ONE OF THE AFOREMENTIONED CONVERSATIONS THAT HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH MITCHELL VEREFIL

POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, AND THAT HE HAD BEEN *"PRESHORED"*

INTO TAKING WEREELL TO ARGENTIRE WITH HIM IN LATE JANUARY 1974 BY OFFICIALS IN THE COCA COLA COMPANY, CORAL GALLES, FLORIDA, WITH WHICH VAN CLEAVE HAD (OR HAS) A CONSULTING CONTRACT IN CORRECTION WITH COCA COLA'S SECURITY SYSTEM IN ASGENTINA. VAN CLEAVE ADVISED US THAT HE NEVER AGAIN WOULD HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH MEREELL BECAUSE THE LATTER HAD ACIED SO BADLY DURING THIS TRIP. HE TOLD US THAT WEFEELL HAD COMMENTED TO ASGENTINE OFFICIALS THAT HE (VEREELL) WAS SOME-
HOW CONNECTED WITH THE CEATEAM TELLINGENCE AGENCY, AND ON A FIRST GAME LASIS WITH *"EILL"* COLEY, DCI. VAN CLEAVE TOLD US THAT MATTERS HAD DEGENERATED TO SUCH A DEGREE THAT HE RETURNED TO THE US WITHOUT FEREELL. (OUR MEMORY IS A FIT FUZZY ON THE CONTENTS OF THIS DISCUSSION, BUT WE RECALL SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT YEAR.LL WAS INVOLVED WITH WINE, WOMEN, AND SONG, AND VAN CLEATE HAD AFRAID THAT VERTEIL MIGHT BE ARRESTED BY ARGENTINE POLICIAS VAN CLEAVE TOLD US THAT HE PERSONALLY COVER HAS SO MUCH AS IMPLIED A RELATIONSHIP WITH TOY TO LAY CLESIDER.

41.34


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

PAGE 4 DCD/MIAMI 12494 CONFIDENTIAL

5. ALTHOUGH WE FAVE NOT MET 649. CLEAVE IN PERSON, PASED UPON OUR TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS 2017 FIN HE APPEARED TO DE AN INTELLIGENT AND CASONABLE WE ARE SORRY THAT NG CANNOT PROVIDE A MORE DETAILED ACCOUNT OF OUR CONVERSATIONS. WITH VAN CLEAVE, EUT AS WE MENTIONED IN REFERENCED TELECON WE DID NOT HAVE NOTCE DURING THE CONVERSATIONS NOR DID VE FEEL IT RECESSARY AT THE TIME TO CRITE A NEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD SINCE WE BELIEVED THAT IT BAS A NORMAL, ALFEIT COMPLEY, REFERRAL TO ANOTHER OCD OFFICE. EE IMPORT CL FY 1265/2

CONFIDENTIAL

4.36


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# 12-77-00

Chief Domestic Collection Division
Attn: Support Branch 'OSS(Grant)

ATL-30-74
28 February 1974

Chief Washington Field Office
Atlanta Resident Office

Resume of Contacts -ith Stephen Van Cleave

$A-128214$ $A-127900$

1. Jack Hennessy, Miami Field Office, called on 21 January 1974 to give us a source lead on Stephen Van Cleave and Mitch Verbell, both from Atlanta, Georgia. Jack briefed us isa paut Miami contacts with Van Cleave and suggested we might want to contact him concerning his activities in Argentina. At that time we were in the process of moving the office to the present location so did not contact Van Cleave until 25 January 1974. On that date he called, identified ourselves and briefly explained the reason for the call. His first question was, "Do you know Mitch Verbell and does this have anything to do with him?" We assured him e did not knoVerbell, and our interest was not related to him. Van Cleave suggested e come to his office at 1:00 that afternoon.

> [Figure: handwritten note]

2.  arrived shortly before 1:00 at his office in 171 W. Wieuca Rd., N.E. Atlanta, Georgia. Van Cleave has a one man office in a modern building located in a moderate to high rent district of Atlanta. After presenting credentials and a business card we asked if he felt these transactions as he resented to be absolutely cure any information he gave was reported accurately. Enclosure No. 1 is a rough draft of the first interview. The actual tape has been erased. Some of this information was reported in 00-A(S)-300/0735-74, Secret. CIA Internal Use Only.

3. On 6 February 1974 we received a call from Van Cleave at home. He wanted to report in detail on a recent trip to Oakland, California, where he had supposedly met with police officials and discussed the Hearst kidnapping, the SLA, etc. He told him this was very interesting but not CIA business.

4. Van Cleave called again on 25 February 1974 to fill us in on a visit to the US by Argentine police officials and an operational opportunity in the Bahamas. We prepared this information for dissemination as 00-A(S)'s. In view of recent developments to assure neither report should be disseminated. To complete your record of contacts, both reports are enclosed as Enclosures No.'s 2 and 3 (disregard the Atlanta report numbers, they will be used for future reporting or cancelled).

> [Figure: Illegible text indicating file information.]

4.35


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

ATL-39-74
28 February 1974

5.  In the meantime the R & Murphy kidnapping came up to occupy his time until 26 February when he called to say he had some sensitive information of definite interest to CIA. When told we could not get into his office the following day due to a lack of transportation, he said he would come to our office. We reluctantly agreed. In the morning of 27 February he came to our office and presented us with the information in Enclosure No. 4 (rough draft-the tape will be saved in case it is needed at a later date).

6.  Met on the transcript but of possible interest, before leaving our office he said he was afraid he might be fired by Coca Cola on 4 March 1974. Briefly, what apparently happened (and this in his story)

a. When it was learned Peg Murphy had been kidnapped, Chief John Inman of the Atlanta Police Department called Van Cleave requesting his assistance. He asked Van Cleave to come to headquarters and work with Assistant Chief Malline (we believe this is the correct name) on the Murphy kidnapping,

b. Van Cleave apparently expressed concern to the Assistant Chief that prominent members of Coca Cola Company residing in the Atlanta area might be targets for the same kidnappers,

c. The Assistant Chief agreed and went along with Van Cleave notifying, by phone, Coke officials,

d. Van Cleave had not cleared this action with his immediate supervisor at the Coca Cola Company.

e. Apparently the phone calls were made very late in the evening;

f. When the Murphy kidnapping was resolved, Van Cleave was called in by his boss to account for his actions. He apparently has not been able to justify the calls and this will be discussed at the meeting on 4 March. We suspect this may be his last official action for the Coca Cola Company.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

## SECRET

ATL-30-74
28 February 1974

7. Since receiving the 27 February 1974 call from OSS, we have checked with Charles Haynes and Bob Perry of the FBI. Both are familiar with Van Cleave and his operations. Perry confirmed that Van Cleave had passed the information contained in Enclosure No. 4 to the FBI. Perry had a few other things to say about Van Cleave that probably do not need to be repeated in this memorandum.

8. Concerning the future, we intend to be hard to reach when Van Cleave calls; if necessary, talk to him on the phone a few times to see if he gets the idea; then if all fails simply tell him we have been told to stay out of this business.

A. B. COLEY

WDPengburn:ns

Enclosures
(as stated)

E 2 EXEMT CL BY 010650

4.35


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

# SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

F-12-79-00
MIM-008-74

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

ATTH: Support Branch/OSS (Ryan/Ames)

Chief, Miami Field Office

11 January 1974

Mitchell L. WerBell, III

REF: 088-44-74, Dated 8 January 1974

Thank you for referent. For the record, subject has made no further effort to contact anyone in this office; similarly, we plan no attempts to get in touch with him. Thus the matter rests there at this writing. Should he call again, however, we will keep the advice contained in referent in mind in dealing with him.

BRUCE E. MAINWARING

B:

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SECRET

4.34

E 2 IMPOST CL BY 010550


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

# Chief, Miami Field Office

**ATTH:** Mr. Bruce Malwaring

F-12-79-00
038-44-74
8 January 1974

Chief, Domestic Collection Division (Support Branch/083)

Mitchell L. Worbell, III

1.  We have reviewed subject's 201 file for additional information. Subject was of interest to this Agency in 1959 and was granted a POA in August of that year. This was cancelled in October 1959 when his information proved to be of little value and because it was suspected he was using Agency funds to promote his personal interests. He has subsequently attempted to pass himself off as an Agency employee. He is characterized by the file as "unscrupulous, a wheeler-dealer" and a promoter of grandiose schemes. The subject has been under investigation in 1973 by both the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the United States Customs Service for activities relating to possible mercenary activities in Abaco Island, Bahamas.

2.  If the subject should contact your office again, we suggest you accept whatever information he has to offer but make no further commitments concerning Agency contact. Subject is well known to the appropriate Desk and is of extremely doubtful character.

3.  We trust this memorandum will provide you with useful information concerning this subject. Thank you for bringing his name to our attention.

JACKSON R. HORTON

SPRyan for SBAmes/b
cc: Services Br. (Control)

ID Files

FILE: TI-25819

4.33

E-2 DOYDET CT. BY 010830

INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

CONFIDENTIAL

Chief, Washington Field Office 12-79.00

12 July 1972

Director, Domestic Contact Service (C)

A-765546 A-168762
Palmolive Transformer Co., Military Armament Corporation, Powder Springs, Georgia

RE: Van Lipper/Musulin telecom

A-127900

1. Attached is for referral telephone conversation in copy of
   Description is referred to in the attached memorandum
   Indicates he is not under CIA. He is not
   Return to this tri is information is needed.

2.  This/ may be will be to arrive at states, have
    contacts of
    Involves in. He has
    That port of individuals making

3. Individual was involved in the. In
   operation that is
   Director of.by
   director of.
   Was an/.
   Of CIA and is mentioned in state

4. If we can be of further assistance in this letter, please advise.

JULIUS H. KANE

Attachment
CHawk/111
CO:  Domestic Provision (C-)
FILE: H 25.00

4.32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SECRET

OGC (John Greany)
F12.79-00
MIM-056-71

10 March 1971

ATTN: Director, Domestic Contact Service
John McConnell
John Greany (OCC)
Chief, Miami Field Office

Mitchell Livingston Werbell, III

1.  On 9 Mar 71 we received a long distance call, presumably from Powder Springs, Georgia, from subject, who is an old and unsavory contact of this office dating from 1959. Werbell has been involved in a variety of scrapes, the latest of which concerned an abortive invasion of Haiti which John Greany was very much concerned about a year or so ago.

2.  Werbell stated that the Department of Defense had just revoked his security clearance on grounds of Werbell's "frivolous behavior" in the Haitian caper. Werbell stated that he intended to "fight it to the Supreme Court", as he had always kept us and other elements of the US Government informed concerning developments in the Haitian matter.

3.  Werbell asked if there was anything that we could do for him in the way of interceding for him with the DCD, and we informed him bluntly and in no uncertain terms that he was strictly on his own, and we could do nothing for him. He then asked if it would be worthwhile to subpoena Bart Gonzales. He informed him that it was up to his attorney to make such recommendations.

4.  Werbell seemed to get the message, and then offered to keep us advised regarding an alleged forthcoming attempt on Haiti which is being sponsored by Rolando Masferrer, even though Masferrer is currently incarcerated in a federal prison. We told Werbell that if he wished to pass any information along we would accept it but under no circumstances should he attempt to elicit any information on our behalf. He agreed that he would operate on this basis and said he might be in touch with us again.

5.  In view of Werbell's record we felt that this latest contact should be a matter of record and that OCC should be informed of developments.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUP

JFG/cas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

# Mitch WerBell: Gunsmith to the 'Right' Sic
By Roger Williams

The following is ercerpted by pre-mission from *Atlanta* magazine,

DOWN THE DRIVEWAY that snakes through the country estate came two teenage boys. They were clean-cut and handsome in the traditional college fashion, and they looked at home in the quiet, leafy setting. But one wore a camouflage suit and carried a large pistol in each hand, the other had an M3 "grease gun" tucked under one arm and a slender equipped sniper rifle under the other.

Behind them, propelling himself victoriously in a wheelchair, came their father, Mitchell Livingston Werbell III of Powder Springs, Ga-soldier of fortune, militant anticommunist and one of the nation's leading developers of military weapons and accessories.

Mitch IV and Geoff chatted lightly about the weapons they were carrying. Their father, temporarily immobilized by a fractured heel, punctured the conversation with rapid bursts of information about the sniper rifle, one of his most choice products. "This weapon had killed 1,900 VC in six months," he said proudly. "Those VC took only 13 rounds per kill. Twenty-seven cents apiece they cost Uncle Sam. That's the greatest cost effectiveness the Army's ever known".

Moments later, young Mitch and Geoff pumped round after round from the weapons into the bullet shattered hulk of an automobile that serves as the primary target on the WerBell firing range. Then Mitch began firing a pistol, a standard Army 45. The gun roared upward and the noise echoed across the fields and treetops. De then picked up a strange, smoothly rectangular handgun, an Ingram Model 11, equipped with a "flash and-muzzle suppressor," and began firing it. The muzzle barely moved, and the only sound was a metallic click, followed by the song of the bullet and the pop as it hit the target.

The effect was eerie, almost chilling, especially when young Mitch put in a clip on a tall automatic and whipped off 54 chirking rounds in one second. Geoff provided the same kind of demonstration with the grease gun, a standard military submachine gun and the sniper rifle which WerBell calls the NM-21 and which is also equipped with a suppressor.

On the way back to the house, Werbell explained why the suppressor, commonly called a silencer, is so effective as a firearm accessory. "It hides the muzzle flash and reduces they firing signature so as to have metal on metal," You can't do that!

nir weapons given to him by friendly forces in Vietnam, he said, and they were shipped to the States for display in military museums.

Not surprisingly, WerBell has often been called an operative of the Central Intelligence Agency, a charge that angers him only when it is leveled too vehemently. It is not that he has anything against the CIA. He just doesn't, he says, happen to be one of its boys. His paramilitary work, which consists of advising and sometimes directly assisting foreign governments, is done in the employ of what he calls "an independent group of well-intentioned, patriotic Americans." The Birch Society? The Minutemen? A bunch of far-right Texas millionaires? WerBell won't say, other than to insist that it is not the CIA.

It hardly matters, for according to WerBell, it is all in the service not only of freedom and anticommunism, but of the U.S. government; he does not supply or advise or fight for regimes not bearing the State Department seal of approval. A heavy percentage of his merchandise goes directly to the U.S. government, which distributes it to its own forces that need silent or exotic weapons. The balance is sold to friendly governments, either directly or through the good offices of the "independent group." He says he does not sell to individuals, not even if they're certified anticommunists.

Werbell-takes pains to point out that he is no ordinary arms broker. That is, he is not one of those shadowy figures who sell weapons to both sides at exorbitant prices or who take possession of contraband shipments on the high seas. "We've always adhered to a basic policy: There is only one friend of the United States in a given area, and we deal only with that friend."

What does WerBell peddle? A range of firearms from machine guns to desk-sized cannons, from the meanest-looking weapons to innocent looking swagger sticks that fire a bullet or even a small rocket; an array of techniques "systems," he calls them that will help an American soldier or a foreign army hold off insurgent forces, and occasionally, his personal services.

These services, present WerBell at his most shadowy Serving as a combatant in the armed forces of a foreign nation is against U.S. law, and WerBell is understandably reluctant to admit having done so. He describes himself in such terms as "paramilitary" and "adviser," but acquaintances suspect he has been in the thick of the fighting a number of times. He may even have

> [Figure: Photograph of WerBell]

In Operational jargon on the "Technology of
and 1" nuclear weapons In one instance,
Environmental Integrity in Congress
In earnest to develop a like hardware. Some NVA or VC
I was abort a was?
spent hundreds of
in underwater demolition
Father took him to M
ago, but the plans t.
One day I sat in Werb's
Geoff displayed a
Armanent's non.
Euises the pl
barte Werbell
h
sort Gasinot th
In the
:
:
cial mo
:
:
h
Aback for
105
ment, a bullet
visitor More from Loa
Werßers
outer,
milometer rifle that
the eye at 200 meters."

The buốt gf Berteils
sound
submachine gar
used on large as well a
ons, and li
tively
machine
helicopters in
Army Journal Cana
Stonies
thing res
now
s
from rejat civ
ים when
Wertelt to
Ingrant Monte
are twe
cartrid,
eventuall
Videas w
Arras


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

14-00000

elaborat system, and it's not 'th it.
can't hear the bolt noise /way in a.combat situation, so for all prae- tical purposes the firing is soundless. Often, the loadest noise is when the bullet hits home. If it hits a human. it makes a peculiar, thunking sound, like hutting a watermelon."

'Compulsive Warrior'

ITCH WERBELL sounds completely matterof-fact, when he talks about firearms, and death, and with reason, lie has been in the mili tary hardware business for years.. and he has either heard or prontuant-er boin-the-thunking watermelon-sound many times-in Latin America and Somheast Asia, in the US. armed forces and as a paramilitary "adviser." He is a compulsive warrior, an armed crusader fighting against "ungodly communism."

Wer Beil is not alone in this occupa Lion, but he practices it in a unique manner. Most soldiers of fortune are nothing else, and they live from one little war to the next, brawling and boozing their way through a tough and financially unrewarding life.

WerBell, by contrast, is a business man who dabbles in military adven ture only when and as far as it suits 4. 11 combat didal titillate him, he wouldn't partake of it. His business is supplying weapons, not using them in anser. He specializes in the weapons and techniques of counterinse sency, which may be roughly defined as the forceful suppression of coups etat, rebellions and the like.

The way Wer Bell operates, this means defending established regimes, some of thein dictatorships, against armed revolt. This political posture not only does not trouble Wer Bell, it pleases him. "I have no objection to dictatorship if it serves the interests of the country," he says. Particularly if the threat to those interests is from the left: "Communism has no place in the Western Hemisphere-or in ary hemisphere lam totally opposed to it, and to the spread of ideological germs and fifth that it brings."

and again, WerBell's name the news. The first labue of

Corporate Setup

THE HEADQUARTERS for h.. 1 work, the former Dobbs estate, is on Highway 360 just outside of Pow- der Springs in a remote section of Cobb County. Actually, corporate headquarters is in Washington, in a firm called Environmental Industries, Inc. a neat euphemism for a company dedicated to killing people. Environ- mental Industries, WerBell says, is bankrolled by some of the East's most prominent investment houses; he is its director of international operations, He is also president of a subsidiary called Military Armaments t'n, Inc., and because he is in Powder Springs, Military Armaments is there, too. (Be hind Environmental Industries, Wer Bell says, is "a third shadow of which El. is a subsidiary"-another tantaliz ing hint of the CIA.)

Military: Armaments may well be a unique Américan; enterprise. Nobody eise, WerBell says, is in the business of designing special purpose weapons on such a scale. A good deal of its de signing and manufacturing is done under federal license. Silencers, for ex- ample, are outlawed by the National Firearms Act, along with sawed-off shotguns, submachine guns and other vestiges of Prohibition era gangland WATS

To manufacture his suppressors, Werkell must pay a special tax of $500 a year, collected by the Treasury Department. The Timen also check pe riodically to see that his awesome collection of firearms over 200 indi- vidual pieces is properly registered. Apparently the market for suppressors is not very large because, according to WerBell, his firm is the only one au- thorized to manufacture, them.

WerBell will not discuss the sales or profits of Military Armaments except to say that, after two years of exten- sive research and development (result ing in a tax loss of a half million dol lars"), the company is now doing very well. It has about 12 employees, includ ing four machinists who work under the direction of. Gordon Ingram, who' has charge of the design operation and; whose name is on the Model 11 subma- nund Mitch demon-

> [Figure] Mitchell WerBell dresses the part ot his private arsenal in Georgia, where he makes specialized light weapons for the ES. Army and other counterinsar-

WerBell six children and put up with his rather unusual way of life. (When he left for the Far East in 19et he said he'd be gone for a year or more, and he was.)

A Military Profile

ITCHELL WERBELL is a short. My man of a quick with quip and quite sensible until he begins talking about communism or other so cial Issues. He has the face and bear- ing of a Prussian officer, an, image he cultivated by wearing a mustache and occasionally a monocle. He often dresses in military clothing of indeter minate origin, and he embellishes the image by talking in slightly chopped sentences peppered with military phrases. There is nothing phony in this. WerBell has a strong attachment to weapons and to warfare, and he has been around them so long that the Ideas and styles they foster are an in grained part of his personality.

He comes by both his militarism and his anticommunism honestly. His father was an officer in the Russian Imperial army, even though he was born in the United States. "It was a tricky situation." says Mitch. "Ile was a citizen of both the U.S. and Russia In those days you could do that."

The elder Wer Bell fought against the Bolsheviks, but before the collapse of the czarist regime he wisely secured an appointment as liaison officer bes tween the Russian and American forces-stationed in the US. He itved in this country for the rest of his life putting his early medical training ta use in cancer research.

A legacy from father is Mitch's barely disguised aristocratic sympa ..:

geney forers oround the world. Beside him is his son. Geoff. The breers were only temporary, while Her Bell recovered from e leg injury.

vertising in a department store. Soon he was head of the department, and soon after that he went on his own,

in the mids, WerBell pulled out his agency and then formed his oun public relations form "d already been drifting into internationa! PR," WerBell says, using my fannly dark- ground. I had tremendous contacts in Eumpe, and I moved into the Far East, too. How much of this moving in was military. WerBell won't say, but his business took en more and more of what he calls a "geopeinseat" Caver

Before long, he was dabbling in Latin American dictatorships, "Before Fidel took over in Cuba, we were working closely with Batista." fie adds with grammar function was to keep Bausta to power, although the US. overament was looking favorably on Padel at abat point."

From all this, even WerBeil doesn't know exactly how, came a passionate concern conce about comarunism. "I decided to devote whatever time i could to anticcismunist activities," he says. "At first it was sort of a hobby, but then it became my main drive in life. What Is dong now-here he ges- tenes at the arsenal on his office wails "altords me a damned good living. But the living is not why i do it."

The Heart of It.

IN 1945, WHILE anticommunism was still a baby, albeit a paying hobby, Werbell purchased the Dobhs estate. He installed rudimentary design facili hes and negan experimenting with seapons of counterinsurgen, weap ons he beled had the best chance of preverin Communist takeovers in the small, underdeveloped naltons of

who had both the savvy and the guts to help preserve them.

fully at thr Inssam models toward making them sta merit of merican soldiers, if pens, ti inancial auereas of Armaments wid presumat sured. According to data u the firms, the higram shorter, Ughter and capabic o ing more firepower than כהס the market. They are alse, says, ideal for secret agents snugly into a dispatch c Armaments makes the cas plete with suppresser and zipes.

Busines a Business

His first major paramilitary opera DOES WERDELL tion was in the Dominican Republic during the 1963 revolt, lle was, of course, on the side of the government, which was fending off allegedly Com- munist insurgents: the United States was on its side, too. WerBell wound up in the midst of the fighting. He was the second Dominican government man to reach the Orama River, scene of the major battle.

Ellsworth Bunker, then U.S. ambas sader to the Organization of American States, became highly exerrised over WerBell's activities and his häwkish views on the conchet (Werbelt opposed a cessation of hostilities and establisn meat of a coalition government).

Punker considered trying to fos WerBell out of the country, but noth ing came of it. Werbell's "independent group"-1.1. Texas milionaires or whatever saw to that.

Werbell was already active in the anti-Castro movement, and he trought to it a sense of dash and discipline that the ragtag, bickering bunch of Cahan exiles had seldom seen. Perhaps his major anti-Castro exploit was a sperd boat foray into Camarioca, on Cuba's southern coast. The mission was to drop a swimmer, apparently a spy, off. shore, and to pick up the family of an exile leader. The beat, flying the Con federate flag on the radio antenna, foundered in high seas, and the raiding party was captured The Cubans, the story goes, did not know what to maku of the brash WerBell, and he and his pals wound up stealing a Castro twat and spiriting some is anti Castrosies cut of the country before they them. selves returned to the United State

contact about pr world with such dealty and weapons No "i we no r concerned," he "We a certain praluct that is unt a part of the civilized world propie exist, there's going arms business. I don't see ence between our app: combatants and house supplying cause to the wounds influird

3 sumira There is his onlin מן ותפוח Werdell i Communist hispace: it in a must be won and weaponив to win 11.

Contrary to cyniral opinber Springs was not named in WerBell and his enterprise In fact, stays an alon! fr community as possible. ilet well-stocked, 11 14 practically cimat save for orrashmo grocery and liquor store been, from have to time on feeling in Powder Spring clares, "The hell with a h tell 'c'm prepared to pare property if they don't is ite does not suites from however. There is a stead visitors and customers, well as Ammeroraps. A l٢٠١ Wet heti's mon in law, an traant clapel. Er in it mainis to see wh the shop: he badet bren אל monthe, he said this Awfully qurais around here I was there the evinged en swapped as on Pisithash partment of nowin pola on bringing the my to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

ong their way through a tough and uncally unsavorylife.

WerBell, by contrast, is a business-abo dabbles in military adven-de only when and as far as it suits, 10. If combat didn't utilitate him, he adot partake of it. His business is supplying weapons, not using them in 257. He specializes in the weapons techniques of counterinsur-wy, which may be roughly defined as the Sopotul supportwen of coups and rebelliont and the like.

The way Wribell operates, this is be artending stablished regimee, e of them dictatorships, agzinst and revolt. This political posture vely does not trouble WerBell, it makes him! I have no objection to ctatorship if it serves the interests of country" be says. Particularly if Dareat to those interests is from left. Communism has no place in Western Hemioghere-or in any-cam-ere. I am totally opposed to it. to the aprend of ideological germo toth that it brings."

Now and again, WerBell's name into the news: The first issue of a new mucktaking magazine, Scan-s carried an exhaustive story on at movement in an abortive inva-of Haiti in 1969, and WerBell was aded with a major, if uncertain, in the operation. WerBell was ar-sted and indicted after the fiasco, charges against him were dropped. wile six others, arrested were brought to trial. Asked by a friend for an ex-anation, Werbell replied Jauntily. hen you work for the company. take care of you. I'll never hear a word about it." So far be maintains)

In December, WerBell hit the r page of The Atlanta Constitution in a shipment of captured enemy weapons bound from Vietnam was de-nded at Eglin Air Force Base. Yor-A notional columnist conjectured ther WerBell or his friends meant to tribute the weapons to rightwing tremist groups in the U.S. WerBell narily denies that. They were mouve-d

a mata mate. A Lood designer signing and manufacturing is done under federal heense: Silencers, for ex-ample, are outlawed by the National Firearms Act, along with sawed-off shotguns, submachine guns and other vestiges of Prohibition era gangland wars.

To manufacture his suppressors, WerBell must pay a special tax of $500 a year. collected by the Treasury Department. The T'ormen also check po-rodically to see that his awesome collection of firearms-over 200 indi-vidual pieces-is properly registered. Apparently the market for suppressors is not very large because, according to WerBell, his firm is the only one au-thorized to manufacture them.

WerBell will not discuss the sales or profits of Military Armaments except to say that, after two years of exten-sive research and development (result-ing in a tax loss of a half million dol-lara), the company is now doing very well. It has about 12 employees, includ-ing four machinists who work under the direction of Gordon Ingram, who has charge of the design operation and whose name is on the Model: 11 subma-chine gun that young Mitch demon-strated on the firing range.

### 'Cottage Industry'

INGRAM WORKS in a well-equipped machine shop-lab attached to the main house on the estate, which Wer-Bell likes to call "the farm." WerBell's office is next door to the shop: Its walls are so loaded with weapons that it is a wonder they do not collapse. There are knives and spear guns and pistols and rifles and machine guns, dozens and dozens of them, some purchased, some won in combat, some presented by the appreciative recipients of WerBell's counterinsurgency techniques.

Wer Bell, who has a sense of humor, calls his enterprise a "cottage indus-try" and likens himself to "a country doctor. ... I can fall out of the living area upstairs right down to the office."

Upstairs is the domain of his German-born wife Hildegard, a pleasant, gray-haired woman who has borne

cultivated by wearing a mustache and occasionally a monocle. Ile often dresses in military clothing of indeter-minate origin, and he embellishes the Image by talking in slightly clipped sentences peppered with military phrases. There is nothing phony in this. Wer Bell has a strong attachment to weapons and to warfare, and he has been around them so long that the ideas and styles they foster are an in-grained part of his personality.

He comes by bath his militarism and his antioremmunism honestly. Hie father was an officer in the Russian Imperial army, even though he was born in the United States. "It was a tricky situation," says Mitch. "He was a citizen of both the U.S. and Russia. In those days you could do that."

The elder WerBell fought against the Bolsheviks, but before the collapse of the czarist regime he wisely secured an appointment as liaison officer be-tween the Russian and American forces stationed in the U.S. He lived in this country for the rest of his life. putting his early medical training to use in cancer research.

A legacy from father is Mitch's barely disguised aristocratic sympa-thies. He has been quoted as saying. "Communism is a substitution of a peasant dictatorship over the aristocra-cy-1 prefer the aristocracy." He is without question an elitist. Not surpris-ingly, his elite is composed of superpa-triots and military men.

Mitchell Wer Bell was born in Penn-sylvania, shortly after his Russian-American father and his Scottish-born mother arrived in the U.S. at the end of World War I. His parents traveled a good deal, here and abroad, and Mitch traveled with them, picking up his edu-cation as he went. He got a degree in journalism from the University of Pennsylvania. In World War II. te Joined the OSS, and served with a unit behind Japanese lines in China, rising to the rank of captain and acquiring a taste for guerrilla type warfare he would never lose.

Wer Bell moved to Atlanta shortly after the war and went to work in ad-

of what he does is no favor.

Before long, he was dabbling in Latin American dictatorships. "Before Fidel took over in Cba, we were working closely with Batista." He adds miha grin, "Our function was to keep Batista in power, although the U.S. government was looking favorably on Fidel at that point."

From all this, even WerEcil doesn't Loow exactly how, came a passion. force in about commume I decided to devote whatever time I could to antiocommunist activities" ise Laye. "At first it was sort of a hobby, but then it became my main drive in life. Waz: I'm doing now here he ges-tures at the arsenal on his office walls -affords me a damned good living. But the living is not why i do it."

### The Heart of It

IN 1948, WHILE anticommunism was sull a hobby, albeit a paying hobby, WerBell purchased the Dobha estate. it installed rudimentary design facilities and began experimenting with weapons of counterinsurgency. weapons he believed had the best chance of preventing Communist takeovers in the small, underdeveloped nations of Asia and Latin America. "I realized ratha in conteneurgency, the pri-mary problem was a lack of depth in weaponry. People say, win the hearts of the enemy, and you'll win the fight! That's a lot of bull. The best way to get their hearts, if they're the enemy, is to shoot 'em and cut the hears out."

While he experimented with weap-ocs quietly, to avoid problems with the federals-Wer Bell proceeded with bis personal brand of geopolitics. He made himself available to anticommu-sit regimes that wanted teip in fight-ing off one band of insurgents or an-ether. In the process, he became friendis with a number of Latin Amer-ica's political stronamen. They were delighted to discover a Now Ameri-cano ho felt as they did about the need for stable, andcommunist re-gimes, especially their regimes, and

sador to the Organization of American States, became highly exercised over WerBells activities and his hawkish views on the conflet (WerBell opposed a cessation of hostilities and establish-ment of a coalition goverom).

Bunker considered trying to tons WerBell out of the country, but noth-ing came of it. Werbell's independent group"-CIA, Texas milionaires or whatever saw to that.

Werbell var already pethe in the anti-Castro movement, and he brought beit a sense of death arus discipline that the raviac, bickering boark of Cuban exiles had seldom seen. Perhaps his major anti-Castro exploit was a speed-mat foray into Canariora, on Cube's southern coast. The mission was to drop a swimmer, apparently a spy, off-shore, and to pick up the family of an exile leader. The boat, fiying the Con-federate flag on the radio antena, foundered in high seas, and the raiding party was captured. The Cubans, the story goes, did not know what to make of the brash WerBell, and he and his pals wound up stealing a Castro boat and spiriting some 16 anti Castroites out of the country before they them-selves returned to the Umted States.

### Vietnam Superhawk

IN THE LATE '6m. Vorfell turned is attention to Southeast Asia. Ho is, of course, a superfiawk on Vie-nam, and would be happy if the U.S. were airo Sghting communists in sil its neighboring countries. He was in Thalland, "working closely with the supreme command," for months, pro-moting the sales of his weapons and systems. "I showed them things like surveillance equipment and night vi-sion equipment, stuff that lets you sur-prise the hell out of the bastarda."

Did he do any fighting himmelf? Wer-Peil chuckles. "I ain't supposed to be shooting the stuff, just demonstrating how to shoot it."

Three years ago, Werholl's weapons business beratte promising enough for him to go into it full time. lic organ-ited a firm called Sisnics (for Studies

There is anticomunist movement, the two lighting Communist messure. If a light man to nor and we nce to win it.

Contrary to eysical opinion, Pow Springs was not named in honor Werbell end an enterpris 'an in fact, stay as t frame the community as posible. We hav well stacked, wectically will cient ans fery and sucrurent res Seen, from tie to worry feeling in Powder Springa Werbell clares, "The sell wit, Who care tell 'em I'm prepared to purcha t property if they don't like th He does not flutter from longie however. There is a steady stree visitors and customers, wer as Amorani A lows Werbell's social on Als tenant colubel, flea in frute mainly to see what was now i the shop; be hadn't wenty months, he said, and things awfully quickly around here The I was there, the colon nwapped picas on shiding the State periment of noin puolicy Mahero on bringing the en to It grave, in Vietnam

Werkell recalls with reling ticular visitor. He came from the Department a few years part, and cording to WerBell, he said, "The tions of the foreiga policies of United States are the bus State Department in Wactungton, of Mitchell Werbel In Fon Springs, Goors WerBell's re "You can't print it it was all in Ar Sazon words" But that was th swashbuckling Werbell The profile WerBell says : ליPRESENT policy that with theory completely. l'eriod

If actions to the contra loudly, they, like Meribells wear can alwayn be suppert himself. Meanwhile, Mitch and bis dependent group" march on

4.3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

CONFIDENTIAL 231539Z DEC 69 CITE CONTACTS/WASHINGTON 24675
CONTACTS/MIAMI
FROM MCDONNELL

JOHN OREARFY, OCG. WILL BE GOING TO MIAMI MONDAY, IN DECEMBER, IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRIAL OF THE EIGHT INDIVIDUALS ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED IN THE HONSING OF PORT-AU-PRINCE.

DA127700

NEW SUBJECT: MITCHELL LIVINGSTON WERBELL OF ATLANTA IS MENTIONED IN A (WASHINGTON POST) ARTICLE TODAY IN CONNECTION WITH ALLEGED RECEIPT OF GUNS SHIPPED FROM VIETNAM THROUGH EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE.

MR. OREARFY SUGGESTS THAT YOU AVOID, IF POSSIBLE, ANY CONTACT WITH WERBELL.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service

ATIN : 038

15 May 1969

MTM-084-69

Chief, Miami Field Office

Local OSI Inquiry Regarding Information on Mitchell L. Werbell

1.  On 15 May 1969, Special Agent Dave Ploumen, local OSI representative, visited the Miami Field office to solicit any information we might have regarding Mitchell L. Werbell who apparently is undergoing a security clearance check as the result of presently being employed by a company with a government contract.

2.  Werbell was an unsolicited contact of this office beginning in 1959 and he reached peak notoriety in November 1967 as a result of his involvement in the Rolando Masferrer trial in connection with the abortive Haitian invasion. John Greaney, OSI was in Miami at the time to oversee Agency interests.

3.  Ploumen in contacting other US Government agencies locally including the US Attorney's Office somehow received an indication that CIA had information on Werbell; thus Ploumen's visit to the Miami Field Office.

4.  It was indicated to Ploumen, who is known personally by several members of this staff, that we knew of Werbell and that on occasion he had reported unsolicited information. It was suggested, however, that Ploumen direct his request officially through channels via OSI's agency liaison officer in Washington.

5.  This is for background and is being forwarded at the suggestion of local CIA Security.

Kegan:pas

JUSTIN F. OLKICHALY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

File

Hill
F-12-79-00

A127900

Answered by phone - Advised
gleich auf he Contact

Copy sent to
Mr. Greany, 28 mae 67

msc

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

F-12-79-00

Director, Domestic Contact Carvice

ATTN : John McConnell
Chief, Hiend Field Office

Mitchell L. Verfell A-127900
HD1-086-67

28 March 1967
MDM-060-67

1.  Verfell called the Miami office on 23 Mar 67 and then told that Bart Gonzales was not in, advised the secretary that the Federal charges against his had been dropped. We have not confirmed this. We do not intend to renew our contacts with him for the time being at least.

2.  Please advise John O’reaney of the Office of the General Counsel of this development and give us whatever recommendations he or you may have as to our future relations with Verfell.

JUSTIN F. GLAUCAUF

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

# CONFIDENTIAL

Director, Domestic Contact Service

2 March 1967

ATTN: John McConnell
MDI-060-67
Chief, Miami Field Office

Mitchell L. Verball A 127900

1. You will recall that John Creaney of the Office of General Counsel was in Miami for several days in connection with the federal case pending against subject. Verfall was indicted on federal conspiracy charges growing out of the abortive invasion attempt of Haiti a short time ago.

2. Following the indictment WorDell called us and indicated that he was to be interviewed on "nationwide TV through station WSB-TV in Atlanta." We called Barry McCrea and asked him to monitor local coverage, and to covered the NBC stations for a period of several days. Verfell did not appear on a national hookup, but Larry McCrea informed us that he did appear on a two-minute taped segment on the WSTV, 3:25 A.M. telecast only. Verfoll said he would, if he could, "make a citizen's arrest of Dwight Eisenhower, John McCone, et al, because he did no more than they did." Harry said that he didn't believe that the station took his state-ment seriously.

3. Verball was also interviewed by "The Atlanta Constitution", and we are enclosing a clipping from the "Constitution" of 23 Feb 67 in which Verball is quoted concerning the indictment.

4. Would you please pass the above to John Creaney. You might inform him that the statement of an undesignated federal official in Miami undoubtedly refers to the Customs agent in charge, with whom Verball had a conversation prior to calling us. Verball quoted him in the same fashion in our conversation. We have had no further content with Verball.

JUSTIN P. GLEICHALUF

JFG:pw

Enclosure:
As stated

CONFIDENTIAL

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

SECRET

- F-12-79-00

231432Z CITECONTACTS/MIAMI 1714.

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

ATTN: JOHN MCCONNELL

SUBJECT: ALLEGED ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT

REF: A. MIAMI 1710. H-197900

B. MC CONNELL/OLEICHLAUF TELCONS OF 21 FEB AND 23 FEB 67

MITCHELL PER BEGL CALLED GANT GONZALES YESTERDAY TO ADVISE
THAT HE HAD RECEIVED TWO PHONE CALLS FROM CHET GRAY EXPRESSING
CONCERN OVER THE FACT THAT NO ONE HAD CONTACTED HIM FOR DETAILS
CONCERNING THE ALLEGED ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT REFERRED TO IN P-67-54

MIAMI 1710. GRAY STATED THAT UNLESS HE HEARD FROM SOMEBODY IMMEDIATELY,
HE WOULD TAKE HIS INFORMATION TO THE GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA ON
THE MORNING OF 23 FEB 67. WE CURRENTLY HAVE AN ADDRESS FOR GRAY:
324 NORTH OAKHURST DRIVE, BEVERLY HILLS, TELE: 274-4922.

BT

Copy F/# B-67-54 (Chet Gray)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

F-12-79.00

DIARY, 23 February 1967

SUBJECT: Mitchell Wortell/Chet Gray

Moichouf called to say that Wortell had heard from Gray both yesterday and the day before expressing concern over the fact that no one had contested him concerning the alleged assassination attempt against a foreign diplomat. Gray stated that unless he heard from someone immediately he would go to the Governor of California, 23 February. This information was passed to Sam Papich by phone.

cc: Chief, Miami Office

JiMcConnell:

B-67-41

Copie F/ All Jackets!

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

F12-77-00

28 II 5:50 FH '92
SECRET

2015322 CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1710

CONTACTS/VASHINGTON

ATIN: MCCONNELL

FRON GLEICHAUF

A 127900

1. VE HAVE RECEIVED A NOST UNUSUAL PHONE CALL FROM MITCHELL VERBELL, POUDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA, DETAILS OF WHICH FOLLOW:

2. VERGELL IS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WHO HAS BEEN IN OCCASIONAL CONTACT WITH THIS OFFICE, OF HIS OWN VOLITION, SINCE 1959. WHILE AN UNSAVORY CHARACTER, MUCH OF THE INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED HAS PROVED TRUE. HE FURNISHED COMPLETE DETAILS ON THE RECENT HAITIAN INVASION PLAN. THE PHONE CALL WAS RECEIVED BY BART SONZALES FROM HIM AT 1123 HOURS ON 13 FEBRUARY KE STATED THAT HE HAD JUST HAD A TELEPHONE CALL FROM CHET GRAY OF LOS ANGELES, NO ADDRESS (PHONE 274-4922).

> /me B 67-54

3. GRAY STATED THAT HE HAD BEEN APPROACHED REGARDING THE POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION IN THE U.S. OF A CLOSE PELATIVE, POSSIBLY A BROTHER OR SON, OF A RIDDLE-EAST RULER, WITHIN THE NEXT 10 DAYS. NE DID NOT FURNISH THE NAME OF THE ALLEGED VICTIN, NOR BY WHO HE YAS APPROACHED. GRAY TOUD VERBELL THAT HE DID NOT SANT TO GET INVOLVED IN AN INCIDENT THAT MIGHT CAUSE INTERNATIONAL-

B.67-54 (Chet Gray)

4:19

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

![CIA logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

PAGE 2 CONTACTS/MIAMI 1712
REPERCUSSIONS AND ASKED VERBELL FOR ADVICE. VER
BELL ADVISED GRAY
TO INFORM THE FBI IN LOS ANGELES, BUT GRAY WAS RELUCTANT TO DO SO.
VERBELL THEN ASKED GRAY IF HE WOULD BE VILLING TO TALK WITH A
MEMBER OF CIA AND GRAY AGREED, VERBELL TOLD GRAY THAT IF A
REPRESENTATIVE OF CIA CONTACTED HIA, VERBELL'S NAME VOULD BE
USED AS ENTREE

4. THE ABOVE SOUNDS LIKE SOMETHING OUT OF THE "ARABIAN NIGHTS,"
   BUT I DID MEET A CHET GRAY FROM LOS ANGELES AT A LOCAL CONTACT'S
   HOUSE IN 1962, SOME DETAILS OF WHICH ARE CONTAINED IN COA(S)5601
   AND OOA(S) 9398 DATED 18 DEC 62. GRAY IS A NOTORIOUS HOODLUM
   AND MIGHT EASILY HAVE BEEN APPROACHED FOR SUCH PURPOSE.

5A. PLEASE HANDLE THE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT.

3T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

F12-77-00

PRIORITY CONTACTS/WASHINGTON INFO PRIORITY JHAVE DIRECTOR

ATTNI INT DIV (HELLER)

COUNTRY: HAITI

SUBJECT: MINI 18756 - PROPOSED INVASION CANCELLED

DOI: 23 NOV 66 AND EARLIER

ACQ: --23 NOV 66

REF: LA CIRL C-DC6-52851

C43: NITCHELL L. VERDELL A 127900

POUDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA

U.S. NATIONAL, SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WITH VIDE
EXPERIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA. HE IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED
WITH ROLANDO HASFERRER.

(THIS REPORT WAS DEVELOPED BY A NAVY REPRESENTATIVE ASSIGNED TO THE OFFICE OF PREPARATION.)

1. DURING THE NIGHT OF 22 NOV 66 A DECISION WAS REACHED TO CALL OFF THE PROPOSED INVASION OF HAITI BY THE GROUP SPONSORED BY ROLANDO (HASFERRER). THE INVASION IS OFF INDEFINITELY.

2. FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE (GEORGES) AND COLONEL RENE (LEON) HAVE BEEN ARGUING WITH HASFERRER WHICH HAS CAUSED CONFUSION AND DISORGANIZATION IN THE MOVEMENT. MANY CUBANS SCHEDULED TO PARTICIPATE HAVE PULLED OUT AND MILITARY CHIEF NAPOLEON (VILLADOISE) (SIC), A CUBAN NATIONAL AND ALLEGED MILITARY EXPERT, WAS RESIGNED BECAUSE OF DISSENSION IN THE GROUP.

3. IT IS BELIEVED THAT U.S, GOVERNMENT AGENCIES HAVE INFILTRATED THE MOVEMENT AND THE LEADERS FEAR THAT ALL WEAPONS AND EQUIPMENT WOULD BE CONFISCATED IF PLANS FOR THE INVASION PROCEEDED.

END OF REPORT.

4. C/S: BARTOLO GONZALES. PLEASE PREPARE HARD COPY IN HEADQUARTERS.

4.18

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

14-00000

112-79-00

PRIORITY: CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

ATTN: INT DIV (HELLER)

COUNTRY: HAITI

SUBJECT: MIMI 10706 - FALSE REPORT OF INVASION/REPORTED CHANGE OF PLANS

DOI: 22 NOV 66

ACC: --22 NOV 66

CES: MITCHELL L. VERBELL

POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA

A.127900

U.S. NATIONAL, SOLDIER OF FORTUNE TYPE WITH WIDE EXPERIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA. HE IS CLOSELY ASSOCIATED WITH ROLANDO MASFERRER.

(THIS REPORT WAS DEVELOPED BY A NAVY REPRESENTATIVE ASSIGNED TO THE OFFICE OF PREPARATION.)

1. AS OF 22 NOV 65 IN SPITE OF WIDESPREAD PRESS REPORTS, NO INVASION OF HAITI HAS TAKEN PLACE.

2. ROLANDO (MASFERRER) ROJAS WHO IS SPONSORING THE ALLEGED INVASION, HAS BEEN TELLING CUBAN EXILES THAT HIS GROUP HAS SECURED THE AIRPORT AT PORT-DE-PAIX AND THEY SHOULD BE PREPARED TO LEAVE AT ANY TIME.

3. MASFERRER HAS GIVEN UP THE IDEA OF MOVING HIS GROUP, WHICH CONSISTS OF APPROXIMATELY 300 CUBANS AND 100 HAITIANS, BY BOAT AND IS TRYING TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS FOR CHARTERING ELEVEN AIRCRAFT,

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

INCLUDINGSOME DO-3'. ONE OF The DC-3'S COULD CARRY COLONEL RENE
(LEON), RASFERRER, AND FATREE JEAN BATISTE GEORGES.

4. THE M/V HUDSON IS 10 BE USED TO CARRY PART OF THE WEAPONS.
   THE NASFERRER GROUP IS FELL ARDED AND HAS PLENTY OF WEAPONS THEY
   HAVE THREE TONS OF C-J DYNAMITE, AND ALSO HAVE SOME C-2 AND C-4.

5. ΤΗΣ HENRIETTA II WILL CARRY PHOTOGRAPHERS.

6. IN SPITE OF THE ABOVE I BELIEVE THAT THE "INVASION IS A
   FARCE AND IS FALLING APART. BASFERRER IS NERELY TRYING TO COVER UP
   FOR THE FUNDS HE HAS RECEIVER FOR THE INVASION. IT IS BELIEVED
   IN
   THAT KASFERRER'S LIFE WILL BE DANGER IF HE DOES NOT MAKE SOME
   OSTENSIBLE EFFORT. END OF REPORT.

7. C/S B. GONZALES. PLEASE PREPARE HARD COPY IN HEADQUARTERS.

BT

CC SUBJECT LINE FIRST PORTION AFTER KIMI NUMOR SHLD READ "FALSE
NEERATSPOF INVASION/"; AND PARA & LINE

RT SNED REA

READ "THAT HASFERRER'S LIFE WILL SE IN DANGER 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

# APPROVED FOR HELLAJE
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW FROCKA F-12-79-00

0115582 CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 1642

CONTACTSZEASKINSTON

ATINS INT DIV CALYTEA)

COUNTRY HAITI DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/BAHAMA

SUBJECT: MIRI 19335 - PLANNED INVASION OF HAITI BEIVEEN
5-13 NCV 66

DOI 28 OCT 66

ACQ ---1 NOV 66

REF 1 DCS CASE 415.5: LA CIRL C-DC6-52851

C&S MITCHELL L. VERふらしし A127900

POWDER SPRINGT GEORGIA

U.S. NATIONAL SITH WIDE TRAVEL EXPERIENCE IN LATIN
AMERICA. HE SPEARS SOME SPANISH, AND HAS MANY SOCIAL
AND BUSINESS CONTACTS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
(THIS REPORT WAS DEVELOPED SY A NAVY REPRESENTATIVE ASSIONED
TO THE OFFICE OF PREPARATION)

1 ON 28 OCT 66 I SPOKE WITH ROLANDO CRASFERRER) ROJAS, A
CUBAN EXILE, AND HE TOLD AL THAT HE HAS ORGANIZED A MILITARY
FORCE OF APPROXIMATELY 25 NEN TO INVADE ΚΑΙΤΙ. ΤHE INVASION FORCE
CONSISTS OF CUDA.. AND HAITIAN EXILES RESIDIGO IN THE U.S., THE
BAMAKA, AND THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE INVASION VILL PROBABLY
BE LAUNCHED FROM THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC SOMETIME BETWEEN AND IS
NOVEMBER AND THE TARGET IS PORT-AU-PRINCE. THE INVASION FORCE
WILL STRIKE IN THE CARLY ROUND OF THE MORNING SELECTED. IT IS
WELL ARMED, AND BILL HAVE AIR COVER, THE PRESIDENTIAL PALACE
BILL BE LONG20.

4.16

2. MASFERRER SIATED THAT COURNE L. CHAXIMILIEN), HAITIAN
   CONSUL IN RIANI, FLORIDA, IS ALARE OF THE INVASION, SUT NE DAS
   NO KNOWLEDGE OF THE INVASION DATE. MARIBILIEN TO PRESENTLY
   HAITI INFORMING PRESIDENT (DUVALIER) THAT THE INVACION CAN BE
   PREVENTED BY PAYING OFF LO TO HASPELER. MAXIMILIEN VILL
   RETURN TO THE U.S. NON AND HE HAS AGREE WITH BASFERRA
   THAT IF DUVALIER AG7215 10 PHE PAY-OFF, MAXIMILIEN ILL RECEIVE
   03


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

3. MASFERRER TOLD ME THAT THE INVASION WILL TAKE PLACE IN ANY EVENT AND THE $158,823, IF RECEIVED, WOULD BE USED TO FURTHER SUPPORT THE INVASION.

4. MASFERRER STATED THAT HE MET WITHIN THE PAST 13 DAYS WITH SEVERAL DISSIDENT HAITIAN ARMY OFFICERS AND HE HAD RECEIVED THEIR SUPPORT. THE HAITIAN ARMY OFFICERS TOLD MASFERRER THAT THEY WOULD REVOLT AS SOON AS INFORMED THAT THE INVASION HAD COMMENCED. THEY DO NOT KNOW THAT THE TARGET WILL BE PORT-AU-PRINCE; THEY BELIEVE THAT IT WILL BE IN THE CAP HAITIEN AREA.

5. MASFERRER STATED THAT HE WAS CONFIDENT THAT THE INVASION WILL SUCCEED, AND IF SUCCESSFUL, FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE (GEORGES) WOULD BE APPOINTED PROVISIONAL PRESIDENT. MASFERRER STATED THAT COLONEL RENE (LEON), HAITIAN EXILE, WILL PARTICIPATE IN THE INVASION. END OF REPORT.

6. C/S1 B. F. GONZALES: PREPARE HARD COPY IN HEADQUARTERS PLEASE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

RR 6315
DE 552/26 131950
ZNY XXXXX
R131420Z
ST
AAXXX
ZERO THREE SEVEN VA

TOTG 131424Z
NA CITE RIAM. 1228
ATTN: INTERNATIONAL DIV (CONANT)
COUNTRY: GUATEMALA
SUBJECT: MINI 63716 - ARMED FORCE'S COUP D'ETAT PLANNED
DOI: 12 JAN 66
ACQ:
REF: CIRL C-005-52574
CAS: MITCHELL L. VESSELL A-127900
POWDER SPRINGS, GEORGIA

U.S. NATIONAL WITH WIDE TRAVEL EXPERIENCE IN LATIN AMERICA. HE SPEAKS SOME SPANISH, AND HAS MANY SOCIAL AND BUSINESS CONTACTS IN LATIN AMERICA.
(THIS REPORT WAS DEV LOOSE BY A NAVY REPRESENTATIVE ASSIGNED TO THE OFFICE OF PREPARATION…)

1. ON 16 JAN 66 MIGUELITO (GUILLERMO) LAPARRA, SON OF THE FORMER PRESIDENT OF GUATEMALAN ARMED 4.14

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

F-12-79-00


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

FORCES WERE PLANVI TO SVL-T, BY COLONEL ENRIQUE (ALIAS ON 15 JAN 66. YOIGOLAR TOLD ME THAT IF THE COUP WAS NOT CARRIED OUT ON 15 JANUARY, IT WOULD BE EXECUTED AS SOON AS POSSIBLE THEREAFTER.

2. YDIGORAS WOULD NOT TELL ME THE NAMESOP THE INDIVIDUALS LEADING THE COUP, BUT STATED THAT "ALL OF THE ARMED FORCES WILL BE INVOLVED." END OF REPORT.

3. C/51 3. F. GONZALES. HARD COPY TO BE PREPARED

BY HEADQUARTERS.

4.14

CEN-1288 CONANT GUATEMALA RIGIL PATIC-COUP D'ETAT 12 JAN 66 12 JAN 66
CINE C DC 5/52576 MITCHELL L VERSELL POWDER-SPRINGS GEORGIA US LATIN
AMERICA SPANISH NAVY 15 JAN 66 EQUELITO YOIGORAS LAPANGA
COLONEL ENRIQUE PERALTA 15 JAY 66 COUP NOT CARRIED 15 JANUARY
NOT TELL CSB F GONZALES
UT

![signature] 1-19-66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

12-79-00

PP 215
l. 2552/35 C42120
ZNY XXXXX
PUAZIRUZ
ET
XXXXX
ZERO ONE SIX WA

53. HC.A. P. ES

HITS-42/1982

PRIORITY WA CITY FIAR 1250

ATIN: EC CONELL

SUBJECT: HUNDRED ASSASINATION ATTEPT ON FIDEL CASTRO

REFI AIR 677-55 OF 17 DAC A 127900

1. MITCHELL MERILL ADVISOR BART GONZALES THAT A GROUP OF SIX SEN IN KIS ORGANIZATION HAS PENETRATED CUBA AND IS CURRENTLY IN THE VARAGLAO/HAVANA AREA. PRINCIPAL PURPOSE IS ASSASINATION OF FIDEL CASTRO TO BE ATTEPTED WITHIN 3-5 FEBRUARY. IF FOUND NOT POSOTBLY. SECONDARY TARGET WILL BE TO LOCK UP THE ELECTRIC PLANT FURNISHING ELECTRICITY TO HAVASA.

2. THE GNOD 1 TO E AN AIRPLANE MODEL TYPE OF RADIO DETONATOR. THEY ARE UNABLE TO PROCURE CONTROLLED FREQUENCY RADIO DETONATORS ERICH VERF PREFF . A HEPIER ФALITY. THE PETONATON

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

4.  VERBELL SAID THAT RECE ALSO ALLEGEDLY HAS A GROUP IN CUBA AT PRESENT FOR THE PURPOSE OF ASSASSINATING FIDEL CASTRO.

5.  PLEASE HANDLE ABOVE AS YOU SEE FIT. FYI: WERBELL IS A NOTORICUS CON MAN AND SOMETHING OF FORTUNE TYPE. HE IS CONSIDERLO UNRELIABLE.

CFN 1268 AO CORNELL FIDEL CASTRO 218 677 65 17 DEC 65 MITCHELL VERBELL BART GONZALES A CUBA WARRIOR MARAVAR 9 JANUARY NOT POSSIBLE UNABLE TO ANG INDICATION RICEFY A CON CONSIDERED UNRELIABLE

BT

4.12

3. ATTEMPT ON THE ELECTRIC PLANT VILL BE TO KILL GUARDS AND MISSION IS SUICIDAL.

AS TO NOW THEY KNOW WHICH THEY VILL BLOW UP KEY EQUIPMENT. GROUP SAID TO KNOW IN THE COURSE OF A PLANNING BY CASTRO. NO INDICATION
14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

# Office Memorandum

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT F-81615

TO:
Chief, Contact Division DATE: 21 July 1959

ATTI: Index Branch A-81615

FROM: Chief, Miami Field Office

SUBJECT: Memorandum of Visit to Mitchell Werbell III Coral Gables, Florida

1. In the evening of 21 July 1959 I received a telephone call from subject,
   who had been given my name and address by another informant of the intelligence community in connection with the possibility of his passing along information with the impending visit of Batista to the US.

2. Werbell indicated that he spent a great amount of his time in the Dominican Republic and had extremely close association with leaders of the government and with General Jone Pedraza. He claimed to have been a former member of the 0SS with service in China in WWII. Werbell is a soldier-of-fortune type, who was a mongoloid, drives a Mercedes-Benz, sports a shortwave radio set and an attractive blonde girl friend, and is a Big Spender. He also volunteered that he has a wife and six children living in Georgia.

3. Werbell told me that his principle source of income is in dealing with Cuban pesos, and said that he is associated in the business with a John Lipko of Los Angeles, a jazz musician who formerly played with the Jimmy Dorsey and Jan Garber bands.

4. Lipko also claims to have been a member of 0SS during WWII, serving in the Indonesian and Eastern European area. Lipko allegedly engaged in making distance phone calls to Mexico City, Guatemala City, and Los Angeles during part of the time I was with the group.

5. Werbell gave me some information on Batista's plans, which is based on supposition, and furnished some other marginal information which is being forwarded, although in my opinion little credence can be placed in anything he says. It is hard to evaluate what Werbell's motives are in connection with his desire to furnish information regarding Batista to us, but it appeared that he was also attempting to fish for information, throwing out a minimum number of questions concerning interests with 9 million Cuban pesos. The penthouse reportedly has been completely redecorated, with heavy steel doors guarding the entrance. This penthouse suite at the Biltmore Terrace Hotel, reportedly recently to have been purchased by Cuban Interests with 9 million Cuban pesos. The penthouse reportedly has been completely redecorated, with heavy steel doors guarding the entrance. This penthouse suite has been rumored to be Batista's intended headquarters once he arrives in the US. All of this has been written about in the gossip columns of the local papers.

C. Inasmuch as Werbell has my name and phone number, probably little can be done to prevent him getting in touch with me from time to time, but contact will not be initiated by me except by direction. The basic purpose of this memo is for the record.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

(When Filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE | REPORT NUMBER | CMO-COM | CASE NUMBER | MS/D(S) | B   | D/O |
| ------------ | ------------- | ------- | ----------- | ------- | --- | --- |
| IMIHI        | 10756         |         | 11236       | 1911266 |     |     |

SUBJECT AND AREA

Proposed Invasion Cancelled

Haiti

G. CONTACT: (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Mitchell L. Werbell

Powder Springs, Georgia

H. SOURCE: (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

BAKE

I. SUB-SOURCE: (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview Trip Report

Other Document Other (specify below)

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USE ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

TO USSR

FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

C/S F.O. Chief Case Officer Division/Seb/Desk

Monzales J.Gleichsauf Heller for Alyea LHSaltzer

FORM Obsolete previous editions

3

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.10.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti

REPORT NO. OO-B-321/19112-66

SUBJECT Proposed Invasion Cancelled

DATE DISTR. 30 Nov 66

NO PAGES 1

REFERENCES This report was previously
disseminated as TD-00B-321/
19112-66

DATE OF INFO. 23 Nov 66 and earlier

PLACE &
DATE ACQ 23 Nov 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, soldier of fortune type with wide experience in Latin America.
He is closely associated with Rolando Masferrer.

[This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office
of preparation.]

1. During the night of 22 Nov 66 a decision was reached to call off the proposed
   invasion of Haiti by the group sponsored by Rolando Masferrer. The invasion
   is off indefinitely.

2. Father Jean Baptiste Georges and Colonel Rene Leon have been arguing with
   Masferror which has caused confusion and disorganization in the movement.
   Many Cubans scheduled to participate have pulled out and military chief
   Napoleon Villaboise (sic), a Cuban national and alleged military expert,
   has resigned because of dissension in the group.

3. It is believed that US Government agencies have infiltrated the movement
   and the leaders fear that all weapons and equipment would be confiscated if
   plans for the invasion proceeded.

- end -

S-YES U-YES

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.10

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the subordinate components
of the USMC member organizations; and to those senior staff members who require the data in the performance of their duties.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

A. FIELD OFFICE

B. REPORT NUMBER

C. REQ CODE

D. CASE NUMBER

E. RECEIVED

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

10706

11226 1906766

False Reports of Invasion/Reported Change of Plans

(Haiti)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Mitchell L. Herbell
Powder Springs, Georgia

INDIVIDUAL NO.

A-127900

45 TYPE O0€

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same as above

ORGANIZATION NO.

I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify, below)

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

NO:

D117

TO USSR

FROM USSR

FIELD COMMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

I don't believe you could have covered the "invasion" better if you had used an umbrella. An excellent job, I think. heller

C/S

F.O. Chief

Case Officer

Division/Staff/Desk

Gonzales

JFUlsichauf

EHeller

LEEaitzer

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti

REPORT NO. 00-B-321/19067-66

SUBJECT False Reports of Invasion/Reported Change of Plans

DATE DISTR. 28 Nov 66

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES This report was previously disseminated as TD-00-B-321/19067-66

DATE OF INFO: 22 Nov 66

PLACE & DATE ACQ --/22 Nov 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US national, soldier of fortune type with wide experience in Latin America. He is closely associated with Rolando Masferrer.

This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. As of 22 Nov 66 in spite of widespread press reports, no invasion of Haiti has taken place.

2. Rolando Masferrer Rojas who is sponsoring the alleged invasion, has been telling Cuban exiles that his group has secured the airport at Port-de-Paix and they should be prepared to leave at any time.

3. Masferrer has given up the idea of moving his group, which consists of approximately 300 Cubans and 100 Haitians, by boat and is trying to make arrangements for chartering eleven aircraft, including some DC-3's. One of the DC-3's would carry Colonel Rene Leon, Masferrer, and Father Jean Fatiste Georges.

4. The M/V Hudson is to be used to carry part of the weapons. The Masferrer group is well armed and has plenty of weapons. They have three tons of C-3 dynamite, and also have some C-2 and C-4.

5. The Henrietta II will carry photographers..

6. In spite of the above I believe that the "invasion" is a farce and is falling apart. Masferrer is merely trying to cover up for the funds he has received for the invasion. It is believed that Masferrer's life will be in danger if he does not make some ostensible effort.

- end -

S-YES U-YES

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.9

The classification of this document is in accordance with the criteria prescribed in Public Law 89-487. It contains information. However, solely/primarily controlled departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence.
IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS.
IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS.
It shall not be disseminated to employees or personnel, including contractors, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

12-79-00

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE | REPORT NUMBER | CEO CODE | CASE NUMBER | RECEIVED | RELEASED |
| ------------ | ------------- | -------- | ----------- | -------- | -------- |
| XXXIII       |               |          |             | 04197    | 1146767  |

F. SUBJECT-AND AREA:

Request for Area

(Venezuela)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address):

Mitchell L. WERBELL
Powder Springs
Georgia

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address):

Same

I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION:

Interview Trip Report

Other Document Other (specify below)

FIELD COMMENTS HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

JOIC (L. Shoemaker)

C/S: JPGleichauf:ps F.O. C/:

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

08 MAY 1967

4.8

3

![logo of CIA historical review program]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY Venezuela

NO DISSEM ABROAD

REPORT NO. OO-B-324/11467-67

SUBJECT Request for Arms

DATE DISTR. 27 Apr 67

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES LA CIRL C-DC6-53134

DATE OF INFO Apr 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ ---/Apr 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US national, soldier of fortune type, with wide experience in Latin America.

1. In April 1967 I was approached by a prominent Venezuelan whom I prefer not to identify. He asked me to arrange procurement of 150-300 9 mm sub-machine guns, with 1-2000 rounds per gun. Delivery was to be "as soon as possible".

2. He did not identify the group for whom they were being obtained but indicated it was a "right wing operation".

3. I told him I was unable to be of assistance.

-end-

![APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM]

08 MAY 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

12-79.00

[When Filled In]

![process sheet]

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

![Table containing several properties such as FIELD, OFFICE, NUMBER, CASE NUMBER]

I. SUBJECT/AREA

Planned Invasion of Haiti Between 5-13 Nov 66

Haiti/Dominican Republic/Bahamas

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Mitchell L. Vorbell

Powder Springs, Georgia

A-127900

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

SAME

I. SUB SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview Trip Report

Other Document Other (specify below)

FIELD COMMENTS

![field comments]

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM RESPONSIVE TO SOWING REQUIREMENTS

FOR OLAY EXCHANGES(CHECK ONE)

TO USSR

FROM USSR

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

Although these rumored invasion have occurred before, This report one of interest to OCI, and suspect, others. One of these rumored happens

C/S

Monsalee

TI Chief

Alleichner

Case Other

Oalyra

Division/Staff/Desk

![division staff]

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.7

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti/Dominican Republic/ Bahamas REPORT NO. 00-B-321/17379-66

SUBJECT Planned Invasion of Haiti between DATE DISTR. 7 Nov 66
5-13 Nov 66

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES This report was previously
disseminated as TD-008-
321/17879-66

DATE OF INFO. 28 Oct 66

PLACE & DATE ACQ ---1 Nov 66 CIRL C-DC6-52951

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national with wide travel experience in Latin America. He speaks some Spanish, and has many social and business contacts in the Dominican Republic.

[This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. On 28 Oct 66 I spoke with Rolando Masferrer Rojas, a Cuban exile, and he told me that he has organized a military force of approximately 250 men to invade Haiti. The invasion force consists of Cuban and Haitian exiles residing in the US, the Bahamas, and the Dominican Republic. The invasion will probably be launched from the Dominican Republic sometime between 5 and 13 November and the target is Port-au-Prince. The invasion force will strike in the early hours of the morning selected. It is well armed, and will have air cover; the presidential palace will be bombed.

2. Masferrer stated that Eugene L. Maximilien, Haitian Consul in Miami, Florida, is aware of the invasion, but he has no knowledge of the invasion data. Maximilien is presently in Haiti informing President Duvalier that the invasion can be prevented by paying off $200,000 to Masferrer. Maximilien will return to the US on 3 November and he has agreed with Masferrer that if Duvalier agrees to the pay-off, Maximilien will receive $50,000 and Masferrer $150,000.

3. Masferrer told me that the invasion will take place in any event and the $150,000, if received, would be used to further support the invasion.

4. Masferrer stated that he met within the past 10 days with several dissident Haitian army officers and he had received their support. The Haitian army officers told Masferrer that they would revolt as soon as informed that the invasion had commenced. They do not know that the target will be Port-au- Prince; they believe that it will be in the cap Haition area.

5. Masferrer stated that he was confident that the invasion will succeed, and if successful, Father Joan Baptiste Georges would be appointed provisional president. Masferrer stated that Colonel Rono Leon, Haitian exile, will participate in the invasion.

- end -

S-YES U-YES

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

Filled In). 12-79-00

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOM. C CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

Report on the Dominican Republic
(Dominican Republic)

Mitchell L. Berbell
Ponder Sgringo, Ceorgia

DOCUMENTARY

Source stated that he received a copy of the attached report from Rolando Astorger Bojes, former Casa Sonstor, Nesterres cold source that the report wes erit- ton by Haval "Patty" Carcla, a cuban anilo. The report contains lofomation on the political, military, Cozamist and economic oltestton'in the Dominican Republic, en woll as information on the elections held on 1 Jun 66.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 2001 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.  6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTAC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

REPORT NUMBER

SUBJECT AND AREA

James Freccy (Ocup d'Face Plamer)

CONTACT (Name, title, Organization, Address)

Alston T. and

Long Ray Register of Deeds

SOURCE (Name, title, Organization, Address)

SUB SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

METHOD OF COLLECTION

Debriefing Trip Report

Other Document Other (specify below)

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

12-79-00

INDIVIDUAL NO.

0127900

ORGANIZATION NO

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

28 FEB 1955

4.5

APPROVED FOR RELEASE, 1994,
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, USC Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Guatemala

REPORT NO. 00-B-321/00782-66

SUBJECT Armed Forces Coup d'Etat Planned

DATE DISTR. 20 Jan 66

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES CIRL C-DCS-52374

DATE OF INFO. 12 Jan 66

PLACE & DATE ACO.../12 Jan 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national with wide travel experience in Latin America. He speaks some Spanish, and has many social and business contacts in Latin America, but his realiability is not of the highest.

This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. On 12 Jan 66 Miguelito Ydigoras Laparra, son of the former President of Guatemala, told me that Guatemalan Armed Forces were planning to overthrow Colonel Enrique Peralta on 15 Jan 66. Ydigoras told me that if the coup vas not carried out on 15 January, it would be executed as soon as possible thereafter.

2. Ydigoras would not tell me the names of the individuals leading the coup, but stated that "all of the Armed Forces will be involved."

- end -

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

![CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM logo]

U-YES 8 FEB 1965 U-YES

4.  5

![information is included here]

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

The dissemination of this document is based to either employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence community. However, unless opportunity controlled reports and opinions of the J 2 cannot directly coordinated the viewpoints of the components and agencies of the. J 2. Coordinating action is the responsibility of the J 2. Information is processed and must be disseminated to contractors. It must not be disseminated to contractors without the express permission of the originator and the originators release of this document relating to the G 2. Commented valued opinions presented in this document.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS.

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE | REPORT NUMBER | FORWARDED      | CASE NUMBER       | RECEIVED       | EXTRA DISSEM RECORD           | RELEASED |                |
| ------------ | ------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | -------------- | ----------------------------- | -------- | -------------- |
| MO DA        | MO DA YR      | MO DA YR       |                   |                |                               |          |                |
| 1 2 3 4 5    | 6 7 8 9 10    | 11 12 13 14 15 | 16 17 18 19 20 21 | 22 23 24 25 26 | 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 | 37 38 39 | 40 41 42 43 44 |

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Possible toys and/or time reporting

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.
A) 12/79.00

ORGANIZATION NO.

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

I. SUBSOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Debriefing Trip Report

Other Document Other (specify below)

FIELD COMMENTS HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

![Image of stamp text: APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994 CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM]

74 JAN 193

4.4

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

|                |                 |                      |                |                     |                      |
| -------------- | --------------- | -------------------- | -------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- |
| A FIELD OFFICE | B REPORT NUMBER | C FORWARDED MO DA YR | D CASE NUMBER  | E RECEIVED MO DA YR |                      |
| 1 2 3 4 5      | 6 7 8 9 10      | 11 12 13 14 15       | 16 17 18 19 20 | 22 23 24 25 26      | 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 |

12-79-00

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

I. SUB SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   Debriefing
*   Other Document
*   Trip Report
*   Other (specify below)

FIELD COMMENTS HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

EXTRA DISSIM RECORD

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 36  | 37  | 38  |

RELEASED

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 40  | 41  | 42  |

INDIVIDUAL NO.

TYPE OF DOCUMENT

GRAPHICS MAPS PUBLICATIONS REPORTS OTHER

ORGANIZATION NO.

SUBJECT

|     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 47  | 48  | 49  | 50  | 51  |

AREA

|     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 52  | 53  | 54  |     |     |

INDIVIDUAL NO.

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 0   | C   | O   | 1   | S   |

2.100 GENERAL

SOV

ORGANIZATION NO.

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 2   | P   | O   | L   | 2   | N   |

DATA SUPPLIED BY OTHER AGENCIES

INDIVIDUAL NO.

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 3   | M   | I   | 1   | 4   |     |

OTHER WISE

ORGANIZATION NO.

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 5   | O   | C   |     | 5   |     |

COMBINED with

INDIVIDUAL NO.

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 6   | C   | E   | O   | 7   |     |

INSUFFICIENT

ORGANIZATION NO.

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 7   | B   | I   | O   | 8   |     |

INTEREST

|     |     |     |     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 9   | M   | I   | S   |     |     |

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

24 JAN 1966

4.3

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

# PRESENTATION FORM FOR GRAPHIC MATERIAL

(Submit to MD-OC/IC in triplicate with process sheet attached)

DIST: ORIG-GRAPHICS; DUPLICASE FILE; TRIPL: SOURCE FILE; QUAD. FOR RECORD

DATE: 13 December 1965

AREA: Camarioca, Cuba A-127900 Mitchel L. Herbell

SUBJECT: Photo prints taken in Camarioca Harbor and immediate vicinity

NUMBER OF ITEMS AND CATEGORY: 15444 photographs, negatives, or slides) 56 B&W prints

DATE OF EXPOSURE: 1 to 7 Nov 65 CAMERA OR FOCAL LENGTH:

CHECK CLASSIFICATION OF PHOTOGRAPHS WHEN SEPARATED FROM THIS FORM. (The classification need not be the same)

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

UNCLASSIFIED

BRIEF SOURCE DESCRIPTION:

US national with wide travel experience in the Caribbean Islands, especially in the Dominican Republic. He speaks some Spanish.

IS SOURCE APT. TO MAKE ADDITIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC MATERIAL AVAILABLE? Yes No

MAY SOURCE'S NAME BE REVEALED TO GRAPHICS REGISTER, OCR, IF REQUIRED? Yes No

DESCRIPTION OF MATERIAL:

56 Black and white phot prints (3 and 1/2 X 5) taken with a 35mm camera.

IF ADDITIONAL SPACE IS REQUIRED USE BLANK PAPER FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

CO-1 NO. 22507-05 CASE NO.

DATE IDENTIFIED TO CR BY CBP

GA CONTROL NO. APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

4.2

1471


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

# SECRET

PROCESS SHEET
FOR
00/C COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

Impending Flight of Batista/Pedraza Expedtionary Force
(CUBA/DOMINICAN REPUBLIC)

CONTACT (Nama, Title, Organization, Addrese or Numbert

Mitchell Warbell III New A# 816.15
2211 Segovia Circle
Coral Gables, Florida

M. BOUACE (Nama, Tille, Organinition; Address or 'Y' Number)

Demo ea above

I. SUD-SOUNCE (Name, Tille, Organisation, Addron)

EXTRA DISSEMINATION CONTROL
MAY DP RELEASED ON NEED TO KNOW ΤΟΙ

FLD OFFICE CASE STATUS
THIS REPORT RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENTS FROM OFFICE OF AGENCY,

EXPECT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WITHIN (UAVA).

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM



![table description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

2-77-00

ATL-30-74
23 February 1974

Chief Dette Collection Division
Attn: Smart Branch 00S(erant)
Chief Washington Field Office
Atlanta Resident Office

Resume of Contacts with Stephen Van Cleave #182014 A-157900

1. Jack Hennessey, Miami Field Office, called on 21 January 1974 to give us a source lead on Stephen Van Cleave and Mitchell WerBell, both from Atlanta, Georgia. Jack briefed us on past Miami contacts with Van Cleave and suggested we might want to contact him concerning his activities in Argentina. At that time we were in the process of moving the office to the present location so did not contact Van Cleave until 25 January 1974. On that date we called, identified ourselves and briefly explained the reason for the call. His first sentence was, "Do you know Mitch WerBell and does this have anything to do with him?". We assured him we did not know WerBell, and our interest was not oriented to him. Van Cleave suggested a come to his office at 1:00 that afternoon.

2. We arrived shortly before 1:00 at his office in N.W. Atlanta, Georgia. Van Cleave has his own office in a modern office building located in a moderate to high rent district of Atlanta. After presenting credentials and business cards we asked if we might tape the interview. He said he preferred a tape as we could be absolutely sure any information he gave in transactions as he wanted to be accurately reported. I made a rough draft of the first interview. The actual tape has been erased. Some of this information was reported in 00-A(S)-02/0335-74, Secret, CIA Internal Use Only.

3. On 9 February 1974 we received a call from Van Cleave at home. He wanted to report in detail on a recent trip to Oakland, California, where he had supposedly met with police officials and discussed the Hearst kidnapping, the SLA, etc. We told him this was very interesting but not CIA business.

4. Van Cleave called again on 25 February 1974 to fill us in on an opportunity to visit to the US by Argentine police officials and an operational opportunity in the Bahamas. We prepared this information for dissemination as 00-A(S)'s. In view of recent developments we assure neither report should be disseminated. To complete your record of contacts, both reports are enclosed as Enclosures No.'s 2 and 3 (disregard the Atlanta report numbers, they will be used for future reporting or cancelled).

E 2 SECRET CL BY 010050


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

ATL-39-74
20 February 1974

5.  In the meantime the R & Murphy kidnapping come up to occupy his time until 26 February when he called to try he had come sensitive information of definite interest to CIA. Wien told we could not go into his office the following day due to a lack of transportation/he said he would come to our office. He reluctantly agreed. Late the coming of 27 February he came to our office and presented us with the information in Kosure No. 4 (rough draft--the tape will be saved in case it is needed at a later date).

6. Not on the transcript. but of possible interest. before leaving mur office he told he was afraid he might be fired by Coca Cola on March 1974. Briefly. What apparently happened (and this in his story) was:

a. Then it was learned Peg Murphy had been kidnapped. Chief John Inman of the Atlanta Police Départant called Van Cleave requesting his assistance. He asked Van Cleave to come to headquarters and work with Assistant Chief Mullins (we believe this is the correct name) on the Murphy kidnapping,

b. Van Cleave apparently expressed concern to the Assistant Chief that prominent members of Coca Cola Company residing in the Atlanta area might be targets for the same kidnappers;

c. The Assistant Chief agreed and went along with Ven Cleave notifying, by phone, Coke officials,

d. Van Cleave had not cleared this action with his immediate supervisor at the Coca Cola Company,

e. Apparently the phone calls were made very late in the evening,

f. When the Murphy kidnapping was resolved, Van Cleave was called in by his boss to account for his actions. He apparently has not been able to justify the calls and this will be discussed at the meeting on 4 March. We suspect this may be his last official action for the Coca Cola Company.

E 2 IMMEDIATE CL BY 010650

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

SECRET

ATL-30-74
23 February 1974

7. Since receiving the 27 February 1974 call from 033, we have checked with Charles Haynes and Bob Perry of the FBI. Both are familiar with Van Cleave and his operations. Perry confirmed that Van Cleave had passed the information contained in Enclosure No. 4 to the FBI. Perry had a few other things to say about Van Cleave that probably do not need to be repeated in this memorandum.

8. Concerning the future, we intend to be hard to reach when Van Cleeve calls; if necessary, talk to him on the phone a few times to see if he gets the idea; then if all fails simply tell him we have been told to stay out of this business.

A.G. CONRAD

WFongburnam

Bielicare
(as stated)

E 2 EXEMPT CL BY 010650

SECRET

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

# SECRET
OSS
ATL-4-75
14 January 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

John R. Poterson
Atlanta Resident Office

Response to Call-in to Agency Headquarters/Initial Contact (Telephone) with John Daniel Williasson, Carrollton, Georgia

1.  On January 1975 Albert S. Coleman of the Washington Field Offico called da to pass on inforration that he had just been given by Dale Zelmer, Leadquarters, reperding a call/received by the Agency duty officer on Le Year's Eve from one John antal Willison of Carrollton, Cor 11110 1dentified Mocalf as a Methodiot ministar and gave his address on Route 12, for 3946, Carrollton, Coorgia, Phone: (404) 54-0443.

2.  In his call to Arency lHeadquarters, Williamsou said that he had a friend who had information on the speeding overthrow of a foreign sovorn ment. The information recarded illegal shipment of ancs from the US to the foruien country. Willingon said that his friend had wanted to try to poll the information to the foreing country concerned but that when the friend told Williasson about it lison prevailed on him to let him (Williamson) bring it to the attention of the proper government agency, resulting in hio call to our ligniquarters on New Year's Eve. Hilliamson asked that aozione from the Agency by put in contact with him.

3.  On the afternoon of 7 January 1975, after verifying through the phone operator that Willion was listed in the Carrollton area (ho actually lives at koopvilde, Georgia, on True Road, but tha Roopvillo phones are handled under the Carrollton exchange). wo called his number. We were inforced by a young walo walo voice, apparently his son, that williamson uns indeed a Methodief minister, but that he taught achool every day during the week in the high school at Frouklin, Georgih, except on Saturdays whon he worked all day of a hardware store et Rockhard, Georgia. Wa were cold that ho proached on Sunday morning. We were not told what he does on Sunday afternooup. Since he was not to be at home optil after 5 Pil, wa called him from our own home that some evening.

4.  Williamson seemed to be expecting our call although we had not identified gurselves during the ecriter call. He gave us assentially the saza information furnished during his Rew Year's Eve call. Ne said that the friend about idiom ho called is a 'former parishioner and lives in the Carrollton area." He preferred not to provide us with the friend's nano and aduress. The inforantion, however that which we were able to ascertain--sounded on the up-and-up, as far as tir. Williamson's part in it was concerned, for be acemad to be a sincere and well intentioned Individ-nay. Man we tried to at least learn the rame of the foreign country involved, Williamson said that his friend vould not give him that Information.

E 2 INPDET CL 010650
4.51
SELMET C/S TEEI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

# SECRET

ATL-4-75
14 January 1975

We did learn that the friend whom Williamson described as a business consultant, "a kind of a high-finance man involved in setting up corporations," who often travels abroad, had been approached by someone locally, i.e., in the Carrollton-West Atlanta area (Carrollton is about 40 miles west of Atlanta). The friend was said to be "a good friend, a reliable man, a college graduate, an established man in the community. According to Williamson, the friend was approached because of the nature of his work to perform some sort of tank for the group, and he knew that something was wrong. The friend then learned all he could about the planned operation and eventually talked with Williamson about it. The friend told Williamson that the gun-running operation had been going on for about a year.

6. At one point Williamson said that his friend told him that "the people involved in this thing won't hesitate to kill him (the friend) and he knows that they're going to have to leave this part of the country when it comes to light." Williamson told us: "I feel like I've got this man's life in my hands and I don't want to do anything to jeopardize his life, because I know him and his family and all." Williamson suggested that we meet his friend at the Cope and Sword Hotel restaurant on I-20, near Six Flags Over Georgia, west of Atlanta, and he said that the two of them had already talked of this as a good meeting place. We told Williamson that we would be glad to meet with his friend but first we would like for his friend to give us a call so that we may talk with him. We gave our office phone number to Williamson. As of the writing of this memorandum, we have had no call.

7. From the information that Williamson provided, e.g., location of people involved, an attempt to meet with an Agency representative (to possibly get us involved merely by association), we believe that much of the substance of the matter could be the same as that which was reported from this office to OSS as related by Stephen Van Cleave regarding Mitch Werbell, et al. (See ATL-39-74, 28 February 1974, Resume of Contacts with Stephen Van Cleave; ATL-53-74, 9 April 1974, Stephen Van Cleave.) Hitch Werbell's operation, which has been described locally as a "machine-gun factory," is located at Powder Springs, Georgia, about ten miles north of the I-20 Cope and Sword Motel. At any rate, Mr. Williamson's friend has been given the opportunity to contact us and we are awaiting his call.

JOHN R. PETERSON

cc: Office of Chief, DCD (D. Zeimor)
/OSS
Services

R 2 IMDET CL BY 010650

SECRET

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

# CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL 051345Z MAR 74 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 12494

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: SUPPORT BRANCH/OSS (GRANT) A-182014

SUBJ: STEVEN VAN CLEAVE, INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, LTD., ATLANTA, GEORGIA

REF: GRANT/HENNESSEY TELCON, 28 FEBRUARY, SAME SUBJECT

1. DURING THE AFTERNOON OF 21 JANUARY 1974 WE RECEIVED A
   A177650
   TELEPHONE CALL FROM ANSELMO ALLIEGRO, 8550 POCKERMAN ROAD, MIAMI,
   FLORIDA, (A CONTACT OF THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE) WHO ADVISED US THAT AN ACQUAINTANCE OF HIS IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA, STEVEN VAN CLEAVE, WANTED TO SPEAK WITH US IN CONNECTION WITH INTELLIGENCE MATTERS CONCERNING LATIN AMERICA. WE TOLD ALLIEGRO THAT VAN CLEAVE SHOULD CONTACT OUR OFFICE IN ATLANTA; HOWEVER, ALLIEGRO SAID THAT VAN CLEAVE DIDN'T WANT TO DEAL WITH "RECRUITERS", RATHER HE WANTED TO SPEAK WITH A CIA OFFICER "IN THE BUSINESS OF INTEL- LIGENCE COLLECTION". WE TOLD ALLIEGRO THAT OUR ATLANTA OFFICE HAS THE SAME STATURE AS THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE, AND THAT HE SHOULD URGE VAN CLEAVE TO CONTACT OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN ATLANTA. ALLIEGRO WOULDN'T ACCEPT THIS RESPONSE ON OUR PART AND INSISTED THAT WE AT LEAST HEAR WHAT VAN CLEAVE HAD TO SAY. FINALLY. WE AGREED TO ACCEPT A CALL FROM VAN CLEAVE SO THAT WE COULD TELL HIM TO CONTACT OUR ATLANTA REPRESENTATIVE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

RAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 12494 CONFIDENTIAL

2. VAN CLEAVE CALLED US AT HIS EXPENSE FROM ATLANTA ALOUT
   FIVE NOUTES LATER. WE ADVISED HIM AT THE CUTSET THAT HE
   SHOULD SPEAK WITH BILL PANGEURN IN THE ATLANTA PESIDENT OFFICE
   AT HIS EARLIEST CONVENIENCE. WE EXPLAINED THAT OUR WORK FORCE
   IS DIVIDED GEOGRAPHICALLY RATHER THAR FUNCTIONALLY, AND THAT
   SINCE HE LIVES IN ATLANTA, HE MUST DEAL WITH THE ATLANTA RO. V
   PROVIDED HIM WITH THE TELEPHONE NUMBER FOR THE ATLANTA FO, AND
   HE INDICATED THAT HE WOULD CONTACT PANGEUEN THE SAME DAY. E
   CALLED PANGPURN TO ADVISE HIM OF VAN CLEAVE'S INTERTION TO
   CONTACT HIS. WE LATER LEARNED FROM BOTH PANGEURN AND VAN CLEAVE
   THAT THE CONTACT WAS MADE.

3. WE PRESUMED THAT WE WOULD HAVE NO FURTHER CONTACT WITH
   VAN CLEAVE. HOWEVER, WE WERE MISTAKE. VAN CLEAVE PLACED AT
   LEAST TWO MORE TELEPHONE CALSS TO US FROM ATLANTA CAT FIS
   EXPENSE), AND ONE FROM DADE COUNTY, FLORIDA. EACH TIME WE
   ADVISED HIM TO CALL PANGBURY FATHER THAN 65. HIS SESPONSE ON
   THESE OCCAS1043 WAS THAT HE ALREADY HAD OR INTERMED TO KEEF
   PANGBUR ADVISED BUT THAT HE WANTED TO KEEP US INFORMED ALSC.
   THE LOCAL DADE COUNTY CALL WAS MADE TO ADVISE US THAT VAN
   CLEAVE WAS IN MIAMI IN THE COMPANY OF TWO ARGENTINE POLICE
   OFFICIALS, WHOM WE COULD DEERIEF IF WE SO DESIRED. WE AGAIN
   FOLD HIM THAT HE COULD REPORT TO ATLANTE.

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

RAGE 3 DCD/MIAMI 12494 CONFIDENTIAL

VAN CLEAVE TOLD US DURING ONE OF THE AFOREMENTIONED
CONVERSATIONS THAT HE IS ACQUAINTED WITH MITCHELL WEREZIL,
FOLDER SAPINGS, GEORGIA, AND THAT HE HAD BEEN *"PRESCUEZD"*
INTO TAXING WERBELL TO ARGENTILA WITH HIM IN LATE JAKUARY
1974 EY OFFICIALS IN THE COCA COLA COMPANY, CORAL CARLES,
FLORIDA, WITH WHICH VAN CLEAVE FAD (OR FAS) A CONSULTING
CONTRACT IN CORRECTION WITH COCA COLA'S SECURITY SYSTEM IN
ARGENTINA. VAN CLEAVE ADVISED US THAT HE NEVER AGAIN WOULD
HAVE ANYTHING TO DO WITH VERDELL BECAUSE THE LATTER FAD ACTED
SO BADLY DURING THIS TRIP. HE TOLD US THAT WERBELL HAD
COMMENTED TO ARGENTINE OFFICIALS THAT HE (VERDELL) WAS SOME-
HOW CONNECTED WITH THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY, AND ON
A FIRST NAME BASIS WITE *BILL* COLEY, OCT. VAN CLEAVE TOLD
US THAT MATTERS HAD DEGENERATED TO SUCH A DEGREE THAT HE
RETURNED TO THE US WITHOUT FERDELL. (OUR MEMORY IS A EIT
FUZZY ON THE CONTENTS OF THIS DISCUSSION, PUT WE RECALL
SOMETHING TO THE EFFECT THAT WERDELL WAS INVOLVED WITH CINE,
WOMEN, AND SONG, AND VAN CLEAVE WAS AFRAID THAT VERFALL MICHI
BE ARRESTED BY ARGENTINE POLICE BEFORE IT WAS OVER.) VAN
CLEAVE TOLD US THAT HE PERSONALLY DEVER PAS 50 ALCH AS
IMPLIED A RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AGENCY TO ANY CUISIDER.

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

PADE 4 DCD/MIAMI 12494 CONFIDENTIAL

5. ALTHOUGH WE HAVE NOT NET VAN CLEAVE IN PERSON, BASED
   UPON OUR TELEPHONE CONVERSATIONS WITH HIM HE APPEARED TO BE
   AN INTELLIGENT AND REASONABLE MAN. WE ARE SORRY THAT WE
   CANROF PROVIDE A MORE DETAILED ACCOUNT OF OUR CONVERSATIONS
   WITH VAN CLEAVE, EUT AS WE MENTIONED IN REFERENCED TELECON
   WE DID NOT MAKE NOTES DURING THE CONVERSATIONS NOR DID WE
   FEEL IT NECESSARY AT THE TIME TO WRITE A MEMORASDEM FOR THE
   RECORD SINCE WE BELIEVED THAT IT WAS A NORMAL, ALFEIT COMPLEX,
   REFERRAL TO ANOTHER DOD OFFICE. E 2 APOST CL PY 713652

COFIDENTIAL

4.51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

SEGREI

F12-79-00

Chief, Personnel Security Division, CC

Director, Domestic Contact Service
(Chief, Services Division)

22 May 1969

IL, Mitchell L. - Local OSI Inquiry to DCS Miami Office for Information Concerning

1.  The enclosed copy of memorandum from our Miami Office, regarding the OSI representative's inquiry for information concerning subject, is forwarded for your records and possible future reference.

2.  Any questions pertaining to this memorandum should be directed to Mrs. Virginia Thorne, ext. 2733.

SECURITY

FRANK YOUNG

Enclosure: As stated above

VThorne: grw

![stamp]

4.51

![illegible text]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

SECRET

Chief, Miami Field Office 22 May 1962

ATT: Mr. E. Hogan

Director, Domestic Contact Service (Services Division)

Mr. Hull, Mitchell L.

REF: 182-008-69

Thank you for the information reported in the referent. The suggestion made by your office that ORI direct its request through official security channels is entirely correct. In the future, however, it will be helpful and appreciated if you will forward correspondence pertaining to security matters directly to the Security Liaison Officer, rather than to support Staff. This saves time in getting the information to the appropriate channel for any action that may be indicated.

SECURITY

John R. Noyer

Volkov:grv

SECRET

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service
ATTN 033 15 May 1969
MI-M-004-69
Chief, Miami Field Office

Local OSI Inquiry Regarding Information on Mitchell L. Werbell

1. On 15 May 1969, Special Agent Dave Ploumen, local OSI representative, USAF, visited the Miami Field Office to solicit any information we might have regarding Mitchell L. Werbell who apparently is undergoing a security clearance check as the result of presently being employed by a company with a government contract.

2. Werbell was an unsolicited contact of this office beginning in 1959 and he reached peak notoriety in November 1967 as a result of his involvement in the Rolando Masferrer trial in connection with the abortive Haitian invasion. John Greaney, COG was in Miami at the time to oversee Agency interests.

3. Ploumen in contacting other US Government agencies locally including the US Attorney's Office somehow received an indication that CIA had information on Werbell; thus Ploumen's visit to the Miami Field Office.

4. It was indicated to Ploumen, who is known personally by several members of this staff, that we know of Werbell and that on occasion he had reported unsolicited information. It was suggested, however, that Ploumen direct his request officially through channels via OSI's agency liaison officer in Washington.

5. This is for background and is being forwarded at the suggestion of local CIA security.

Logan: pav

JOSEPH F. GLEICHAUF

SECRET

4.51


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)