# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED PESSAGE

ACTION:

INFO : DDF, ACDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, 1/3, C/VE 2, B/C 2

SECRET 2211522

OPIN DIR INFO PRETY HAVE (FRAM WARD CITRIX480 600)

RYBAT TYPIC CALL

22 APR 64 N22657

1. AFLEB 29 MET (IN ROTT) BY VAREBOLD AND ARLES 1 ON 23 APR.

WE EXPLAINED THAT HE DID NOT RECRUIT IDEN A AS PLANNED BECAUSE

IDEN B TOLD HIM IDEN A IS NOW BEING WATCHED CLOSELY DUE HIS RECENT

ATTEMPTS TO RESIGN FROM MILITARY. A 29 HAD NO FREE TINE TO SEE

AND MAKE OWN ASSESSMENT IDEN A SITUATION DUE SERIOUS ILLNESS MOTHER

AND HIS REQUIRED PRESENCE ABOARD SHIP DURING REPAIRS.

2. TUFO IN REF OBTAINED BY AHLEB 29 FRON IDEN C. REQUEST

TRACES. SHE IS FORMER GIRL FRIEND OF AFLEB 29 AND PARENTS ARE

NEIGHBORS. SHE VERY ACTIVE IN RESISTANCE GROUP WHOSE NAME SOUNDS

LIKE "FRENTE LIBERACION NACIONAL - FRENTE LIBERACION ESCAMBRAY."

A 29 SEES HER IN HAVANA EACH TIME HOME ALTHOUGH SHE SPENDS CIRCA

TWO OF EVERY THREE VEEKS VITH GRANDPARENT IN FATANZAS,

3. A 29 CERTAIN IDEN C VOULD ACCEPT RECRUITHENT BY HIM TO

WORK WITH ODYOKE. VARKBOLD SEEING HIM AGAIN EVENING 23 APR.

REQUEST OPIN PERMISSION PRIOR NEXT MEETING WITH A 29 TO INSTRUCT

HIM TO RECRUIT IDEN C. TRAIN AND GIVE HER SV AND ACCONNODATION

ADDRESS PREVIOUSLY PLANNED FOR IDEN A.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 13-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ACTION: /SAS (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT: 1035, 22 APR LIG)

INFO: DOP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/EE 3, C/E 2, S/C 2

SECRET 2211522

CPIE DIR INFO PRITY WAVE FRAN HARS CITE HABU 3696
22 APR 1953 IN22624
RIBAT TYPIC CALL

MAGU 3695 (22657)

IDEN A: ANTONIO CONCEPCION.

IDEN B: MANUEL JUSTO NUINOS, BROTHER-IN-LAW OF ANTONIO CONCEPCION. SEE PREVIOUS INFO ON KUINOS FROM ANLEB 29.

IDEN C: (NORMA FLORES) DOB CIRCA 39, RESIDES WITH MOTHER AND FATHER AT CALLE NO. 18332, ENTRE PRIMERA Y SEGUNDA, RESIDENCIAL MONTERREY, SAN MIGUEL DEL PADRON, GUARABACOA, HABANA. RESIGNED FROM JOB AS TEACHER IN UNIVERSITY OF VILLANOVA IN HAVANA IN 62.

HAD PBPRIME VISA PRIOR BLOCKADE BUT BLOCKADE NULLIFIED CHANCE TO LEAVE. FATHER FORMER (SERGEANT IN BATISTA ARMY) NOW GARDENER.

SISTER, (NANCY FLORES,) DOB CIRCA 36, IS OFFICE CLERK IN LA ISLA DE CUBA DEPARTMENT STORE, HAS APPLIED FOR PBPRIME VISA. GRANDFATHER AND UNCLE LIVE IN MATANZAS.

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)