# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

12 December 1967

SUBJECT: SCHLUMBERGER WELL SURVEYING CORPORATION
(See Houma Munitions Bunker - Lease by Subject firm)

## ALLEGATION:

GARRISON has charged that the burglary of the Houma munitions bunker was "CIA-inspired." He issued arrest warrants for Gordon NOVEL and-Sergio ARCACHA SAITE charging them with the Houma burglary.

## SOURCE:

Enclosure 24 of CI/R&A memorandum of 7 August 1967.

## CIA CONNECTION:

CIA had no connection with the alleged burglary of the Houma Munitions Bunker or any connection with the bunker itself.

However, Pierre SCHLUMBERGER, president of the SCHLUMBERGER CORPORATION, was of contact interest in 1950 for routine exploitation as a foreign intelligence source. The FBI advised they had no objection to the Agency's interrogating Pierre SCHLUMBERGER who was an alien. In 1962 DAYSTROM, INC. was acquired by SCHLUMBERGER, INC. The Agency had a contract with DAYSTROM for an unclassified item ($49,000 contract for the production of Mark II limpet mines); Agency interest was classified Secret. SCHLUMBERGER, LTD. is a Dutch firm controlled by French nationals. After the merger, it was determined that future relationship with DAYSTRON must be governed by Agency policy not to place classified contracts with a foreign firm. In 1963 the same decision was reached concerning Agency contracts with Electro-Mechanical Research, Inc., a subsidiary of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD. EMR dealt in all phases of telemetry. Contact clearances for other personnel of SCHLUMBERGER are set out below.

## OF INDICES RESULTS:

The SCHLUMBERGER COMPANY was the subject of a name check in 1947 because of a contact request, and it was determined that there are a number of SCHLUMBERGER corporations in Latin America which are dominated by French nationals. SCHLUMBERGER has a patented operation for an oil well "shooting" service which is subscribed to by various oil companies. The SCHLUMBERGER WELL SURVEYING CORPORATION in Houston was controlled by Henri Georges DOLL, a French national. He was of contact interest in 1956 and 1957. His wife is the daughter of Conrad SCHLUMBERGER.

![image of a stamp indicating the document is secret and contains the text: Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification. RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

In August 1951 the Agency was interested in contacting Professor Edouard POLDINI, a geophysicist and professor at the University of Geneva and formerly an employee of the SCHLUMBERGER CORPORATION in Paris, for operational use. He was to be used as a channel to a Janus KANTAS who could give information about the fate of the previous employees of the Jersey Company in Hungary, the production figures and extent of exploitation of existing oil fields and exploration of new oil fields together with the names of the officials of the Russian Hungarian Company who took over the Jersey Company.

In March 1953 the SCHLUMBERGER file reflects that an FBI source furnished information that one Maurice Henri MARTIN, employed as an engineer by the SCHLUMBERGER Company, Paris, France, received a letter dated 27 July 1951 at Moscow from one Biegfried Stefanovitch MOROSOFF, asking MARTIN for specialized information concerning geophysics. The letter requested that MARTIN's reply be forwarded to Moscow through an inter- mediary. From January 1932 until April 1937 MARTIN represented the SCHLUMBERGER Company in Russia as an engineer, and it was thought that the correspondence from MOROSOFF may represent a Soviet attempt to resume contact with MARTIN and develop clandestine relations with him. The FBI conducted an investi- gation dated June 1953 and determined that Maurice Henri MARTIN resided at Nod Hill, Wilton, Connecticut and was employed by the SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Co., Ridgefield, Connecticut. Informants advised that although MARTIN was strongly nationalistic toward France, he gave every indication of being anti-Russian and there was no evidence of CP activities.

When DAYSTROM, INC. merged with SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., research was done on the directors and officers of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD. The results are as follows:

OS indices reflect a record on Dillon ANDERSON, a trustee of Electro-Mechanical Research, Inc. (a subsidiary of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD.) who was also a proposed trustee of "NEW DAYSTROM" when it merged with SCHLUMBERGER. ANDERSON is an attorney from Houston, Texas who was appointed by President EISENHOWER as an advisor to the National Security Council from 1953 until 1956. He was considered for a special clearance in August 1955 but the briefing was not given. He was granted a covert clearance in December 1953 and April 1954 for use as a covert associate on Project LPFUNNEL.

Pierre SCHLUMBERGER, President and Chief Executive Officer, SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., Houston, Texas, French citizen, was of contact interest in 1950.

Charles C. PARLIN, Director of SCHLUMBERGER, LTD., and a member of the law firm of SHEARMEN, STERLING and WRIGHT, Englewood, New Jersey, U. S. citizen, was of contact interest in 1962 but was security disapproved. PARLIN was allegedly the boy friend of Johanna BEKER who was in contact with known Soviet Agents, ROBERT and JACK SOBLE. BEKER advised the FBI in 1957 that she received, paid for and transmitted to Robert SOBLE, OSS information which was given her by two former OSS employees. She also advised the FBI in 1957 that she

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

had given a very general outline of her activities to PARLIN ani
it is reliably reported that PARLIN and EMER shared a hotel roon
in Folland in 1957. PARLIN recorrented & Willion bart LANCASTER
for OSS employrent. LANCASTER was a member of the care law firm as
PARLIN and had a long record of Cortunist, front affiliations. PARLIN
in 1956 traveled to Jussia as a menber of & delegation under the
sponsorship of the National Council of Churches. De was aloo the
lawyer for & Swiss & zament industrialist who sold erms to the
Nazis and the Communist countries since that time.

Clark Drouillard GOODMAN, Vice-President of SCHLUBERGER,
"Ltd., Houston, Texas, U. S. citizen, was security disapproved for
use by TED in 1952 and for contact use in 1955 based on his support
of Frofessor Dirk STRUIK, a colleague at ETT, who was indicted on
chere of having been a Communist conspirstor and identified as a
Corrmaist Party member. In Farch 1959 the same derogatory information
wis furnished the Contact Office to be considered in determining any
use of GOODAN. Also, a took written by GOODE K's wife, Kay Ellen
GOOD AN, was favorably reviewed by the 'DAILY WORKER" in 1956.

Jean C. LEGRAND, Vice-President of the SCLUBERGER WELL
SURVEYING CORPORATION, Pigefield, Connecticut (U. S. citizen,
naturalised Fouston, Texas 1941) was approved for contact use in Nay
1957. Els file is clear. There is a notation that one Hrs. J. C.
TEGRAND, 5319 Fanell Street, Houston, Texas, in November 1944 was
Fresident of the Houston Chapter, France Forever, The Fighting French
Comittee in America.

Everett STRAITOR, Sales Manager, Houston Area, SCHLUMBERGER
HELL SURVEYTIK Corporation, Fouston, Texas, U. S. citizen, was security
proved (CAUTION) for contact use in October 1950. His file is clear.

Daniel SCHIANBERGER, French citizen, archeologist and teacher
t the University of Strasbourg, France in 1955, vis granted s
mer tional approval (for use as a contract arent in Kabull in April
1956 but the clear ace vis encelled 20 Septenter 1956. Eis file is
clear. Fowever, iz & Pile on Nicholas KAGE, French financier, and
suspected Soviet agent, which contains detailed study of the inter-
relationships and ferily connections existing in French firms,
information on Daniel SCEUBERGER is containel therin. Daniel
SCHAUBERGER, rester of the DCEUPERCER WELL SURVEYING Corporation,
vas head of the French Archeologicel Deletion in Afghanistan (1948-
1954). An associate of Daniel SCHLUBERGER WS Reoul CURIEL of a wealthy
Jevich banking family in Cairo, Egypt. Paoul and his brother, Henri
CURITd Cortunist chτουnds and their mother want to Deorge
TIME TO Rich Soviet ar to Pefected to Pussis. BLMT lives with
the PIET's in Ciro. Iso Cilbert PONTECORVO, known Communist,
wus in cont et with Demenio ARIEL, relative of the CURIEL family
involve in the Geore DE case. Bruno PONTECORVO, Gilbert's brother,
in the storic scientist wo defected to Russic in 1950, worked for
the Well Surreyine form or tion, Tules, Olhor, from 1940 to 1942 but
it was not known it the 900U BERGER Well Surveying Corporation is in ny
wer connected with the Well Surveying Corporation in Tulse.

-3-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

SCELUNBERGER end Company and another SCHLUMBERGER subsidiary
fire, Machine Bull (Competitor of IBK), are connected with Schneider
and Company, 42 rue d'Anjou, Paris. Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL, manager
of Compagnie Internationale de Commerce, represents SCHNEIDER for
the USSR and is a Soviet agent. In September 1961, an investigation
conducted in France disclosed that "everything that takes place in
the Elysee is known in Moscow within 48 hours and the originator of
such intelligence is Francois SAAR-DEMICHEL." Machines Bull is
controlled by General Electric Company of the U. S. and SCHNEIDER
and Company is affiliated with U. S. Westinghouse Corporation
under the name SCHNEIDER-Westinghouse.

The Study in KAGAR's file contains the following additional
information concerning SCHLUMBERGER and Company:

Maurice and Remi SCHLUMBERGER are affiliated with Lazard
Freres and the Worms Bank. Lacard Freres controls SCHNEIDER-
Westinghouse and has a New Orleans Branch Office. Closely associated
with the SCHLUMBERGER's is Charles DOH. DOH was born et Odessa in
1911 and arrived in the United States in 1937 to join the SCHLUMBERGER
Well Surveying Corporation at Houston, Texas. He become a U. S.
citizen on 6 September 1950. Charles has a brother, Jean, who was
closely associated with Leonard FOURAU, a suspected Soviet agent.
HOUNGU was closely associated with Francois S/AR-DEMICHEL, previously
reatione Soviet agent connected with SCHLUMBERGER and Company.
Charles DOE was approved for Agency contact use in September 1955 es
a perber of the SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Corporation. His file
is clear.

Roger Robert Henri KENQUET, Executive Vice-Fresident,
SCHLUMBERGER Well Surveying Corporation, Fouston, Texas, was approved
for contact use on a limited basis in October 1950. He had been an
employee of OSS from 1943 to 1945; was given American citizenship
nd the Congressional Vedal of Ponor for his deeds during World War II.

Arthur Henry FPENTROP, an employee of the SCHLUMBERGER WELL
SURVEYING CORPORATION, Ridgefield, Connecticut, was of contact
interest in June 1956. Information concerning his spouse's critical
attitude towerde erican customs and institutions and the dominant
osition she exercised over her busband was furnished the contact
office.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)