# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Subject has been identified as having remained in Korea since 28 January 1960, presumably in the above position.

PERSONS WITH WHOM GEORGI PARISTEROPOULOS IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT:

1. Kenneth C. MILLER, Chase Manhattan Bank, Tokyo, Japan. Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

2. Al (Alphonse) RIGOD (name of firm illegible but probably L. RONDIN and company, of Tokyo, Japan). Named as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

The KANIU DIRECTORY for Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan for 1955 on page 325 lists L.R. and Mrs. Alphonse (Alphonse) RIGOD, with residence address of 67 Kita-machi, shibuya-ku, Tokyo, with business address for Alphonse RIGOD as c/o L. KUNDEN and Company, Ltd. (Japan), Tokyo. Tel. 27-3521-4.

Alphonse RIGOD was identified in 1947 as a French citizen, resident in Shanghai, (China at 75 Route Frelupt, who was serving as a cover out carrying French intelligence requirements to a double agent in Shanghai in 1949.

3. Gregory TOPUZU, of the PONY2 Company, Tokyo, Japan. Listed by Subject as a personal reference in 1957.

4. Antonious (Anthony) E. PAPPALOPOULOS, Greek Consul, Yokohama, Japan, listed as a personal reference by subject in 1957.

5. Valentine HALIN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich ZHAN aka Yen-Shin HAR, former Soviet Agent, who is elsewhere identified.

6. Emmanuel Abraham USTROVICKT, who in 1953 was the manager of the Tokyo Branch of Sendovich Brothers, Incorporated, by which organization Subject was then employed.

7. William Hamilton MARTIN, as reported in cover dispatch.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

8. Officials of the Claggett-Nolan Company, Incorporated, Tokyo,
   Japan, whose identities have not been determined on basis of
   reported direct contact with Subject, but who are presumed to
   include Richard William Nolan CHILD and Mortimer Claggett
   COCKE, Junior, the principal officers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

HX-3

18 November 1960

MLMORANDUM FOR: National Security Agency

ATTENTION: Mr. 6. Wesley Reynolds

SUBJECT: Vernon Ferguson MITCHELL,
William Hamilton MARTIN,
Espionage - R

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1.  Reference is made to information orally furnished by your office to representatives of this Agency to the effect that William Hamilton MARTIN at one time mentioned the fact that prior to his resignation from his civilian contract employment with the Department of the army in Tokyo, Japan, and prior to his actual return to the United States in late August or early September 1955, he had been offered a job as a rug salesman by one George PARIS of Tokyo, Japan.

2.  A check of the indices of this Agency reveals that William MARTIN'S Tokyo acquaintance, who offered him a job as a "rug salesman", and whom MARTIN called "George Paris" is undoubtedly identical with one George B. PERISTERFOULIS aka PBRISTELLFOULOS aka PERISTELLOPOULOS aka George B. PERIS, aka George PARIS, born 4 January 1909 at Constantinople, Turkey, but of Greek nationality since birth. According to information provided abroad to representatives of this Agency by a Japanese Liaison service, George • PERISTEROPOULOS in about 1946 abbreviated his name to George PERIS. The Liaison service added that he operated the Pickela Rag Company in Tientsin and Shanghai, China, as his own business" between 1927 and 1941, at which time the firm was closed down because of the war. Between 1941 and 1945 he was under house arrest, or "confined to his home in Shanghai, but significantly was not interned by the Japanese. From 1946 to 1950 he operated the George PERIS COMPANY in Shanghai. He claimed to have been unemployed between 1950 and 1952, at which time he emigrated to Tokyo, Japan, from Shanghai, obtaining employment in Tonys with the firm of a-ND-VICM

SECRET

1/90


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

RATMARS became the manager of the Tokyo branch of this firm in 1951. In 1954 he established his own firm under the name of Phali ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, which firm appears in the trade indices published for Japan, and is reflected in attachment. In 1955 George PERISTERLPULLOS aka PERIS was appointed to the position of honorary Deputy Greek Consul in Yokohama, in which position he was the deputy to Anicatos A. PAPPAOPOULES aka Anthony A. PAPPADOPOULLS, the honorary Greek Consul in Yokohama. PERISTERLPULLOS appears to have continued in this diplomatic post until sometime in mid 1959, when an official Royal Hellenic diplomatic mission to Japan was accredited to the current government of Japan, and the functions of the Yokohama Consular office were taken over from the two honorary consuls.

3. Liaison reported that on 28 January 1960 George

and that he had not returned to Japan as of 30 August 1960. Through a sensitive source in Seoul, with whom representatives of this Agency are in operational contact, and who is believed to be reliable, it has been ascertained that George PARIS left Haneda Airport in Tokyo on 28 January 1960 aboard regular CAT scheduled flight to Seoul, Korea, where he was to assume the position of resident representative in Seoul, Korea, of the firm of CLAGGETT-NOLAN COMPANY, INCORPORATED, an export-import firm, with offices in the Hotel Sazo, in Seoul. This firm is listed in the Foreign Directory for Seoul as having headquarters in the United States, located at 24 California street, San Francisco, California. PARIS replaced a British national named Julian James PILR, as representative of the CLAGGETT-NOLAN Company in Korea.

4. On basis of an official inquiry by a representative of our Agency to the United States Embassy in Seoul, it was learned that the above firm of CLAGGETT-NOLAN Company enjoys a good reputation locally and deals in the sale of electrical and mechanical machinery and equipment. It was also learned that the capital stock of the firm is controlled by one Mortimer C. CLUKE, Junior, and a Richard W. Child, both of whom are United States citizens. The indices of this Agency reveal that Mortimer C. Clagget Cluke, Junior, co-owner with Richard William Nolan Child of the firm of BA-COM TRADING COMPANY INCORPORATED, which has offices in Tokyo, Japan, and is incorporated under the laws of Panama. Additional

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Information concerning the above firms and regarding Richard & William
Nolan CriliLD and Mortimer Claggett Clai, Jr. will be furnished
separately.

5. The activities and contacts of George PERISTERUPCULis
   aka PERIS in Japan and Kures are currently being investigated by this
   Agency.

6. George S. PERISTEROPOULOS aka PEALS, Identified above,
   and known to William H. MARTIN as "George PARIS, is identical
   with the individual whom Volestia HAHN eka Valentia Vasiliyevich
   KHAN aka Wanita HAN, admitted former (1947) Soviet agent, identi-
   fled as "George PARIS, a Greek bastnessman in Ichyo", and as one of
   HAWN'a close contacts and friends in Japan. Y ben interviewed by
   representatives of this Agency ta 1958, Valentine HAILS advised that
   the above "George PARIS was the person who introduced HANN to a
   Tokyo nightclub, located off the Ginza, the name of which HAHN gave
   only as "Tac Tomorrow is Too Late Club". HAHN claimed that thie
   was an exact and direct transistion into English of the actual Japanese
   nama, which, however, he never mentioned during the interview.
   Date of HAhn's visit to this "clab" in company of George PERIS aka
   PARIS, Is astimated to have been somewhere between 1954 and 1957.
   HAWN stated that by the Torrow ! حج؟ Late Club he was intro-
   deced to a Japanese hostess by the name of Noriko SATSUZAKATA
   alias Noriko AWAJL with whom HAHN sabsequently enjoyed dates.
   It is believed that Noriko MATSUZAKAYA AWAJI became the mistress
   of Valentine Hain for an undetermined period of time following bis
   original introduction to her at the above "Club" while in the coтраву
   of George PERSTEALPCULAS aka PERIS aka PARIS. HAHN also
   advised, that following his original introduction to this establishment
   by PERIS, HAHN had taken a number of cocamed married American
   nationals, who were stationed in Tokyo, to the same club, where sach
   persons had also been introduced to and had enjoyed dates with the
   bostesses. At this time, there is no information to indicate that
   either Filliam Hamilton -ARTIN or Berasa Ferguson AITCHELL
   were among the United States cationals HAMN referred to as having
   been taken to the aforementioned club by HAHN. Neither is there any
   information currently availedis to reflect that William Hamilton
   MARTIN was known to Valestine HARN through their mutual acquaint-
   aneeship with George PARETEROPOULLS.

7. As ottechment kerewith, we are forwarding a chronologically


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

organized biographical outline of all information on George
PLEINTEROPUUMO aka PLRIS, developed to date. Attachment to
this communication indicates that I has been or may still be a
contact of manuel Abraham USTROVSKY, suspect Soviet Agent, who
is the Tokyo Branch manager of the firm of SUNDUVICH BROTHERS
INCORPORATED, which firm has long been suspected of being a front
or cover organization for Soviet intelligence operations. Attention is
invited specifically to the fact that Attachment reflects that the 1954
Japan Directory of Foreign Firms lists .. UTAOVO&Y as Tokyo
representative of this firm, which has offices at 81 - Tamura-cho,
4-chome, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo, and telephone lines: 43-1809,
43-4369, 43-4237, whereas in 1958 subject is officially listed as
George PARIS, of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, located at
14-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Telephones: 43-1809
and 43-4287, reflecting that he shared telephone numbers with
SUNDOVICH BROTHERS, and presumably with Manuel A. OSTROVSKY.
It is suggested that the Department of the Army,
Chief of Staff, G-2, intelligence, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation
may have additional information on George ParlsTIALPCCULAS aka
PARIS and associates.

8. No additional information, to supplement that which is
   reported in paragraph 6 above, identifiable with Noriko MATSUZAKAYA
   & AAVL would be located in the indices of this Agency.

9. With reference to the 'Tomorrow is Too Late Club', men-
   tioned in paragraph 5 above, to which Valentine HAHll claims to have
   been taken by George PARIS, an exact and direct re-translation of the
   club name into Japanese from the English as given by HAHIN, would
   read "Asu de wa ososugiru". It is noted that the Tokyo Telephone
   Directory for 1957 contains a listing for an establishment of this
   name, as follows: ASU DE WA LoosugiraU, located at Chuo-ku,
   Ginsa, 8-Chome, 3 Banchi, Tokyo-to, Telephone No.: 57-0945,
   57-6363, 57-6928. A reliable source, who is familiar with the city of
   Tokyo, advised in October 1960, that as of 1959 this establishment
   was still operating at the listed location, and that it is a coffee-house
   rather than a nightclub in the western sense, although alcoholic
   beverages are available for consumption on the premises by the
   patrons. The same source also advised that the above coffee-house
   employs Japanese hostesses", as is customary in such establishments
   in Japan, and that such females might be dated under the circum-
   stances indicated by Valentine HAHM. However, it should be noted

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

that the same source also indicated that the coffee-house known as ASU DE WA COLOUGIRU to which he was referring, which is identical with the establishment of this name listed in the 1957 Tokyo Directory, is the type of place which is not frequented in general by American nationals stationed in or visiting Tokyo as tourists; rather it caters mainly to indigenous patrons and their guests, or to foreign residents of Tokyo who have been introduced to the place and the management by Indigenous patrons. Those foreigners then become regular patrons after becoming known to the management, inasmuch as the above described ASU DE WA (BLSUGI coffee-house generally fits the description of the "Tomorrow is Too Late Club" mentioned by Valentine HAHN as a nightclub" to which he was taken by George PERIS, it is suggested that they are one and the same establishments.

10. In light of the mutual acquaintanceship of William K. MARTIN and Valentine Hahn with George FLASTEROPOULOS aka Pikis, and in turn, PERIS' role vis-a-vis HANN's introduction to the ASU DE WA (JCSUGIRU coffee-house, it is suggested that FERIS may have played a similar role in terms of introducing William MARTIN to Japanese night-life. This may have eventually led to MARTIN's contact and Involvement with Japanese individuals, who introduced him to or indulged his masochistic interests.

11. Additional information on the individuals mentioned above will be forwarded as developed. It is requested that addressees forward to this Agency any information on George PIRISTEROPCULCS aka PLAIS, his contacts and activities, and on the other individuals mentioned herein.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

Attachment: as stated

cc: Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of the Army, ACSI

DDP/FI/D/AP:mem
Orig & 2 - addressee
* 1-100-6-124/3 (ZRGRACE)
* 1-201-284530
* 1-201-282337 (MARTIN)
* 2-OS/SRS
* 1- chrono

SECRET

![unknown]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SZC..ET

ATTACHMENT

SUBJECT: Summary of Information on
George F&RISTLEOPOULOS
aka George FERIS, aka Gorge D.
PERISTEROPOULOU, aka George
FERISTALLEROPOLU, aka
George PAKIS.

BORN: 2 January 1949 at Constantinople, Turkey

Nationality at Births: Greek

Present Nationality: Greek

Parents: Names not reflected in the record, both deceased. Father died Chita, Siberia, USSR, date unknown. Mother died in Shanghai, China, date unknown.

Marital Status: Widower since about 1956; marital totes since that date unknown.

Name of deceased Spouses: Aurelie PARETAROPOULOS ase CZSLIFEA, COB unknown. Nationality: Polish. Married at Shanghai, China. Date of marriage not reflected in the record. Died in Tokyo, Japan circa 1956.

Relatives: In April 1948, under maiden name, listed as registered member of the Polish Citizens' Association of New Poles in Shanghai, which organisation is loyal to the Polish Government in Warsaw.

Mother-in-law: Mrs. Bronislawa CIERVINSKA, Polish National; 1951 resident Shanghai, China; as of 1953 applicant for a United States Immigrant Visa filed in Tokyo, Japan.

SECRET

NOFORN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Sister-in-law Mrs. Irene ADAMSKY, nee CZERINSKA;
1953 resident 1306 Massachusetts Avenue, San Bernardino, California.

Residences

|            |                                        |
| ---------- | -------------------------------------- |
| 1909-1915: | Constantinople, Turkey                 |
| 1915-1917: | Illegible, but probably Odessa, Russia |
| 1917-1923: | Chita, Siberia, USSR                   |
| 1923-1924: | Harbin, China                          |
| 1926-1937: | Tientsin, China                        |
| 1937-1952: | Shanghai, China                        |
| 1952-1957: | Tokyo, Japan                           |

April 1953: 3-Chome, Yoyogi Tomigaya, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, Japan

1958: 64, 3-Chome, Lensenchofu, Ota-ku, Tokyo. Home telephone: 72-3444

1959: 64, 3-Chome, Lensenchofu, Ota-ku, Tokyo. Telephone: 59-1666.

1-28 January 1960: Tokyo, Japan

Since 28 January 1960: Seoul, Korea

Employment Records

|            |                                                                                               |
| ---------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1927-1935: | Operated "own business", Nichols Rug Company in Tientsin, China.                              |
| 1935-1937: | Unknown                                                                                       |
| 1937-1941: | Operated "own business", Nichols Rug Company, Shanghai, China. Closed in 1941 because of war. |
| 1942-1945: | Confined to own home in Shanghai, China, but not interned by Japanese occupation authorities. |
| 1946-1950: | Operated firm George Peris Company, Shanghai, China.                                          |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET
LOFOSA CONTINUED COATROL

1950-19524: Unemployed (presumably in Shanghai).

1146-19514: Subject and wife from Shanghai, China applied for visas to enter Japan from Chios. Subject claimed be hald Greck Fassport A 6/50-1 Lessed by the Greck Consalata in shongbol on 20 September 1950 and valid until y repten.ber 195L.

Vife held Greek Passport A 20/56-1, tssued Shanghai, 15 June 1951, valid cntil June 14, 1952.

Sabject indicated he was engaged in da Imanes and amart business. deal. ing in raw wool,

1952: First entered Japan at Yokohama on 2 February 1557 with status of semi-permanent resident. Stated ca arrivel ta Yokohama to Japenese s'olice that he had come to Japan to ase's peace and freedom".

Employed by Tokyo Branch of Sando-vich Brothers, lacorporated, through 1952.

Other indices consulted reflect that Subject in 1952 operated the firm of George PERIS in Tokyo, Japan daring 1952.

1953: Subject was elevated from the position of employee" to that of anager of the Tokyo Branch of sondovich Brothers In 1953.

Also, Fodjoet was reported still operat-ing the George PERIS Company is Tokyo in 195

SECRET:

MOFORM CORINUD CONTEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

MOFORM CONTINUED CONTROL

# SECRET

1954:
Subject reportedly terminated his employment with Fondovich Brothers sometime during 1954, exact date not known, and established his own firm under the name of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES.

The 1954 Japan Directory of Foreign Firms lists SUNIOVICH ARCHITHES as a United States Firm, with offices at #1 - Tamura-cho, 4-chome, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan. Telephones 43-2609, 43-4369, 43-4287, and lists E. OSTROVSKY as the Tokyo Representative.

E. OSTROVSKY, of course, is Emanuel Abraham OSTROVSKY, who is known to have been the Tokyo Branch Manager of the above firm, who resided in 1954 at 19 Kouncho-Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Home telephone: 43-6773.

1955:
Subject continued in his position as President of PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES.

During 1955, exact date not specified, Subject was named to the position of Honorary Deputy Greek Consul in Yokohama, in which position he became the deputy to Antonios Z. PAPPADOP-OULOS, the Honorary Royal Greek Consul in Yokohama.

It is presumed that the Consulate in 1955 was probably located at the same address given in the December 1957 Caimasho "Consular List", which reports the following information:

# SECRET

MOFORM CONTINUED CONTROL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

"Royal Greek Honorary Consulate in Yokohama, Sutherland Building, No. 75, Yamashita-cha, Naka-ku, Tel. 8-1513."

Mr. Antonios PAPPADOPOULOS,
Honorary Consel

Mr. George PERISTEROPOULOS,
Honorary Leputy Consul."

1956:
Continued as President of PERES
ASSOCIATAD ENTERPRISES, Tokyo.
Continued as Honorary Greek Deputy
Consul, Yokohama.

1957:
Continued as President of PERIS
ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISE 5, Tokyo
Continued as Honorary Grock Lepozy
Consul, Yokohama.

1958:
Continued as President of PAPIS
ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES; Listed in
directories as George PARIS, PERIS
ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES, located
at f4-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Tel. 43-1809 and 63-4287.
(1958 Japan Times Directory)

A separate listing is also carried in the
name of George PERISTEROPOULOS with
office telephone listed as: Yokohama
8-1713, which is the same telephone
number given in the Lecemosr 1957 Cen-
solar List for the Royal Greek Honorary
Consulate in Yokohama, above.

1959:
Subject continued as president of PERIS
ASSOCIATED ENILEPRISES, and is
listed as George PLEIS, in conection
with this firm, whose offices according


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

to the 1953 Japan Times Directory are located at #6-3 Chome, Tamura-cho, Shiba, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Telephone 59-1666.

It should be noted that this is the same address listed for subject and the PARIS ASSOCIATED ENTERPRISES in the preceding year, but there is a change in the telephone exchange.

1966:

On 28 January 1966, Subject departed by air from Haneda Airport, Tokyo,
from a source believed to be reliable that subject was going to Korea as the Seoul Resident Representative of the American-owned firm of Claggett-Nolan Company, Inc., which has its home office at 25 California Street in San Francisco, California, and maintains an office in Seoul in the Bando Hotel. Subject allegedly replaced one William James PHILP, a British National, in this post. The capital stock of Claggett-Nolan Company, Inc. is controlled by Mortimer Claggett Cooke, Junior, and Richard William Nolan CHILD, both American citizens, who are also the principal controlling stockholders and officers of the BALCOM TRADING COMPANY, which has its main offices in the Fukoku Building, 2-Uchisaiwai-cho, 2-Chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan, but also has branches in Seoul and Pusan, Korea. BALCOM TRADING COMPANY also controls another subsidiary firm known as Allied Distributors, Incorporated, with which firm Thomas Robert KIRK aka Doris YASHDI has been affiliated for a number of years.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Subject has been identified as having remained in Korea since 22 January 1960, presumably in the above position.

PERSONS WITH WHOM GEORGI PERISTEROPOULOS IS KNOWN TO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT:

1. Kenneth C. MILLER, Chase Manhattan Bank, Tokyo, Japan. Listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

2. Al (Alphonse) RIGOD (name of firm illegible but probably L. RONDON and care of Tabun [illegible], reference by Subject in 1957.

The KANTO DIRECTORY for Tokyo and Yokohama, Japan for 1955 on page 325 lists Mr. and Mrs. Alphonse (Alphonse) RIGOD, with residence address of 67 Oate-machi, Shibuya-ku, Tokyo, with business address for Alphonse RIGOD as c/o L. RONDON and Company, Ltd. (Japan), Tokyo, Tel. 27-3521-4.

Alphonse RIGOD was identified in 1949 as a French citizen, residing in Shanghai, China at 75 Route Frelupt, who was serving as a control officer conveying French Intelligence Requirements to a double agent in Shanghai in 1949.

3. Gregory TOPZU, of the PONYX Company, Tokyo, Japan. Listed by Subject as a personal reference in 1957.

4. Antonious (Anthony) L. PAPPAIOPOULOS, Greek Consul, Yokohama, Japan, listed as a personal reference by Subject in 1957.

5. Valentine HALIN aka Valentin Vasiliyevich ZHAN aka Fon-Shin HAN, former Soviet Agent, who is elsewhere identified.

6. Emanuel Abraham USTROVSKY, who in 1953 was the manager of the Tokyo Branch of Sendovich Brothers, Incorporated, by which organization Subject was then employed.

7. William Hamilton MARTIN, as reported in cover dispatch.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)