# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

B-3786
6 MAR 1973

SUBJECT: Travel from Algiers

1.  A sensitive and reliable source reported on 26 February 1973 that the travel documents (Titres de Voyage) requested from the Algerian Government by William HOLDER (Subject of your New York Field Office File 164-694) are intended for HOLDER himself, Melvin MCNAIR (Bureau File Number 157-26560), Jean MCNAIR (Bureau File Number 157-26561), Larry BURGESS, also known as George Edward WRIGHT (Bureau File Number 157-26562), Joyce BURGESS (Bureau File Number 157-26563), George BROWN (Bureau File Number 157-26564), Jean Catherine KERKOW (Subject of your New York Field Office File 164-694), and Eldridge CLEAVER.

2.  Source speculates that CLEAVER's name was included with the others desiring travel documents in order to convince certain Algerian authorities that CLEAVER, who departed in early February 1973, was still in Algiers. Although Source does not know when the documents will be issued, he believes that the Government will do so.

3.  Both Melvin MCNAIR and George BROWN were arrested by the Algerian police on separate charges of possession of handguns. BROWN was found to be carrying a loaded revolver, and MCNAIR had given an Algerian youth two pistols for safekeeping. One of the pistols was of Chinese manufacture. Neither BROWN nor MCNAIR were kept under arrest for any length of time.

4.  Source has been unable to provide any additional information regarding the destination of above mentioned individuals. We are checking

> [Figure: WARNING NOTICE box]

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

> [Figure: EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION box]

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEIM ABROAD

## SECRET

7131


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

further abroad and will provide your Bureau with any additional pertinent information obtained. The above information is being made available to your Bureau in response to your request for infor- mation on the activities of the CLEAVER Faction located in foreign countries as transmitted in your teletype 004, dated 17 March 1971, Subject: Black Panther Party-CLEAVER Faction, Racial Matters.

5. The information in this report is being provided to your Bureau with the understanding that it will receive no further dissemination, other than to your appropriate field offices, without the prior approval of this office; and that any reference to it in internal Bureau documents will state only that it was obtained from a confidential source, with no mention of the office originating this report.

Please transmit reply via CACTUS channel

Originated by: CI/SO: MMullen: jb: 6 Mar 73
Based on: Algiers 1368, 2 Mar 73
Source:02(GADUEL/1
Distribution:
Original - FBI (via CI courier)
1 - CI/SO B-Memo Chrono
1 - PROD Algiers
1 - PROD GADUEL
1 - BPP/Algiers
1 - Eldridge CLEAVER
1 - PG Chrono


Z/PW

2
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)