14-00000
104-10164-10110
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-406

FROM AMEMBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE

DATE: 11 APRIL 1963

CLASSIFICATION: OFFICIAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: U.S. BUSINESSMAN SIGNS CONTRACTS WITH
HAITIAN GOVERNMENT AND LOCAL PANK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CHARLES, Clemard-Joseph L. HOTT.

President and General Manager of the Comercial Bank of Haiti

President and General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Haiti (Banque Commerciale d'Haiti - BCH), Clemard Joseph Charles is known as a confidant of President in Francois Duvalier and as a businessman of questionable repute. One well-informed official source reports that Charles, is as "slippery character" and, although, active on the Haitian scene; there is considerable doubt as to his importance or political significance despite the fact that he appears to have a "line into the Palace" and is persona grata with the President. Source: President, National Bank of Haiti. Regarding Charles' business interests, a prominent and knowledgeable Haitian recently (March 1963) reported that the Commercial Bank of Haiti is in bad shape, "holding a worthless portfolio made up of notes guaranteed by political figures," and that Charles himself was dishonest.

– having for example, recently approved a loan for $14,000 on his daughter's signature alone. Furthermore, Charles was alleged by this same source to know nothing about banking and to be a favorite of President Duvalier.

This estimate is confirmed by one U S official who adds that Charles is more accurately described as a "promotor" than as a businessman and that he is a partner in the BCH rather than the sole owner. Charles frequently endeavors to attract US venture capital for various Haitian projects and claims to be an honorary citizen of Long Beach, "Long Island, New York,

having promoted a "sister city" relationship between that town and Port-au-Prince.

A dark Negro about five-feet seven-inches tall, Clemard Joseph Charles

REPORT HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ROUGH UNEDITED for biographical Report on HAITIAN opposition personalities
WA TO EXPEDITE THE SERVICING OF AN URGENT REQUEST
ALERTE CONFIDENTIAL 261-957029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

was born of peasant parents at Scrates, Haiti, on 21 April 1925, and received his primary education at a Parochial school, and graduated from Lycée Geffrard in 1939. According to Charles' own account, during his early career he taught in rural Haitian schools, worked as an upholsterer, time-keeper, plantation supervisor and free lance journalist. In 1947 he was appointed controller general of Haitian Southern Banana Industry, and became general agent, he then established himself as a manufacturer's representative and created his own export-import business. Charles traveled to London in 1953 and to Brussels in 1957 as a member of various Haitian Government missions. Charles further states that he created the Commercial Bank of Haiti in 1960 and is its sole owner, as well as being the sole representative in Haiti of the General Electric Company, Ltd., of London, England and of Siemens Schuckert Werke, Germany.

Charles and his wife, Sophie, have one adopted son.

DJR March 1963

CONFIDENTIAL

THIS REPORT HAS BEEN PREPARED IN ROUGH UNEDITED FORM TO EXPEDITE THE SERVICING OF AN URGENT REQUEST.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# STATE
Page 4 of 5
Enclosure No. 1
Port-au-Prince A-345
5 March 63

Pros Natl. BK. of Hoiti

Smaller Comercial Banks in Bad Shame

André remarked quite flatly that there are really only two banks in Haiti, the BIH and the Royal Bank. The others are pretty sad affairs. The BANQUE COLOMBO-HAITIEN, for example, has a portfolio of $1.4 million which is, as André put it, "all fraud". The president of that bank, he said, is a rich man today. His technique, according to André, is to find someone willing to accept a loan which he knows cannot or will not repay on which he kicks back in some cases more than half. André said he knows personally of one man who was leaving for the United States who signed notes for $10,000 and accepted $2,000, the remainder going into the pocket of the bank president. As for reserves, the Colomco-Haitian bank has been below the legal requirements for months and is now paying, in accordance with law, fines of $150 daily. What will happen when depositors want their money back ne, André, would rather not think about.

André said he knew the bank had tried to interest some American investors in the business, perhaps in the hope of getting new capital with which to keep going. He, André, however, understood that the Americans were a rather dubious Miami group, even if they did come in (which he did not at the moment foresee) he didn't think it would improve the situation. The Colombo-Haitian bank, he said, was in such poor shape it would take a major overhaul to save it.

I had led the conversation over to the Colombo-Haitian bank because of certain special interests we have. I now took the occasion to ask about Clemard CHARLES end his COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI. André replied that the situation was practically the same. The bank held a worthless portfolio made up of notes guaranteed by political figures. Charles himself was dishonest - recently, for example, he had approved a loan for $14,000 on his daughter's signature alone - and he also knew nothing about banking but he was something of a favorite with the President who gave him support. The BIH holds mortgages on the Commercial Bank of Haiti, for example, and, since payments are now substantially in arrears, André said, he might have foreclosed. The President, however, had asked him not to in order to avoid a scandal.[^5]

Balance of Payments Situation Temporarily Improved

Turning briefly to the balance of payments question, I asked André how matters now stood (having in mind, but not mentioning, some

[^5]: The latest balance sheet on the Commercial Bank of Haiti, with some comment on its president, was forwarded with Embassy A-325, February 15, 1963.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-325

DATE: 16 FEBRUARY 1963

CLASSIFICATION: OFFICIAL USE ONLY

FROM: AMEMBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE

SUBJECT: BANKING: BALANCE SHEET OF THE
BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 2 AUGUST 1962

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: RE: CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES
INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI

FBI FILE NO: 105-6311 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

JOSEPH D. CHARLES

Joseph D. Charles, a Negro, was born 15 November 1907, at Limbe, Haiti. He is married and has five children. He received his law degree at the Law School in Cap Hatien in 1928. A former law professor, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney and Judge of the Civil Court in Cap Hatien (1928 - 1940), Charles served as Ambassador to the United States from 8 October 1946 until 1 June 1960. During this period, he served also as Ambassador on the Council of the Organization of American States (1949 - 1950). He resigned his ambassadorial post after the fall of the government of President Estime who had appointed him. On 29 February 1952, ho was designated Secretary of Education and Public Works by President Magloire and resigned from the cabinet on 31 March 1953, allegedly because of his opposition to increasingly close ties between the governments of Haiti and the Dominican Republic.

Charles chaired the Haitian delegation to the second post of the first session of the UN General Assembly (1946), the second session (1947) and the fourth session (1949). He chaired also the delegation to the Ninth International Conference of American States at Bogata (1948) and is reported to have been friendly to the United States.

Charles has in the past been mentioned more than once as a possible successor to the incumbent president. The most recent occasion was in 1955 when he was mentichadas a possibia successor to President Paul E. Magloire.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

# CHARLES

- 2 -

Madame Charles, nee Telson, is a sister of Adelphin Telson,
forwerly Minister of Defense and Justice, formerly President of
the Chamber of Deputies, who is friendly to the US and in con-
tact with US officials in Port-au-Prince. A sister of Madame
Charles is married to Colonel Marcaisse Prosper, former Chief
of Police under the Magloire government. It has been alleged
that the three men, Charles, Telson and Prosper, constitute a
potentially strong political force in Haiti.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

COUNTRY Haiti

SUBJECT Interview with Clemond Joseph Charles/
Possible Duvalier Successor/His Ideas/
Friends and Supporters/Interpretation
of Current Situation

REPORT NO. 00-B-3,260,765

DATE DISTR. 10 May 1963

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES OO/CD Case 40556

DATE OF To early May 63
INFO.

PLACE & --/2 May 63
DATE ACQ.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, former Journalist, who has followed developments in the Caribbean area closely for many months and maintains contact with persons directly concerned with the area.

His command of French and his habit of making detailed shorthand notes enable him to report with an unusual degree of accuracy.

1. On 2 May 63, we had a four-hour interview with Clemard Joseph Charles, president and general Manager of Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, Port-au-Prince, vice president of the Haitian Chamber of Commerce, and cousin of Joseph D. Charles, former Haitian ambassador to the US.

2. Clemard Charles, whose PO Box in Port-au-Prince is No. 5751, told us that he was a man of peasant stock and that while a business leader he has the full confidence of the predominantly peasant population of Haiti, and, that with the additional backing of forcibly retired anti-Duvalier army officers, intellectuals, journalists and businessmen, he is in a position to become the head of a provisional government after Duvalier is removed. He believes the span between now and 15 May when Duvalier's term expires and 22 May, when his new term is scheduled to commence, will be the most crucial period for Haiti. He believes Duvalier is ready to institute a reign of terror, killing those who oppose him, and is willing to accept Soviet bloc help. About two weeks ago, the Polish charge d'affaires left Port-au-Prince for Poland, and Charles believes he carries Duvalier's request for economic and possibly military help.

3. As vice president of the Chamber of Commerce, he learned that in early April 1963 a Czechoslovak delegation arrived in Port-au-Prince, presumably to discuss trade matters, a fact which gave rise to rumors that it consisted of military technicians.

4. Charles firmly believes this will be the last chance for the US Government to help establish a democratic Haiti friendly to the US and save the country for a Castro-type Communist takeover. Although he has been on good terms with Duvalier, he now feels that the President "went crazy and must be stopped before he liquidates the opposition. Shortly after Charles made this statement he was called to the phone. Returning, he told us that one of his friends had been killed two days before by Duvalier forces. He declined to give the name of the alleged victim, but talked frankly about some of his own influential supporters on whom he could rely with a firm pledge of holding free elections.

| STATE | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | FBI | APC |
| ----- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |



INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NO DISSEM ABROAD

CONTROLLED: The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the US member agencies, and to those senior officials who must utilize the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 4 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the US. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO ORGANIZATIONS OR PERSONNEL, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Ambruse IHARTNG
(201-345-467) h Lp
the FEL IN New ba
That DESINCR IS
ONE IF TOV card-carrying
Communists In Gort.

3. Clovis Démur, Secretary of Commerce & Industry, and a good friend.
4. Timothy Férère, retired colonel, former Haitian military attaché in Washington
5. Col. (fnu) Honorat, now en asylee in the Brazilian Embassy, Fort-au-Prince
6. Col. H. Leconte, retired officer, "a good and honest man."
7. Former Ambassador Joseph D. Charles
8. Dr. Emile Saintelot, former law professor; president of Haitian Senate and National Assembly in 1957; former ambassador to France, now in exile in New York (pt. 12J, 392 Central Park West at 100th St., tel. U 5-5115). Charles called him a "player," that is, an Opportunist, but anti-Duvalier.
9. Col. (fnu) Cham

5. Charles intimated that he had many other prominent supporters who are violently anti-Duvalier and who are ready to back "my government." He has just passed his 40th birthday (he was born 21 Apr 1923 in Consives), which makes him eligible for the presidency in so far as the constitutional age requirement is concerned. In case he did not become provisional president after Duvalier's overthrow, he would be satisfied with the post of Secretary of Finance & Economic Affairs. He said the present secretary, Dr. Herve Boyer, has leftist tendencies, and his wife is definitely a Communist.

HARKVETT described BOYER as second card-carrying Commie KNOWN TO

6. Charles added that as he is of "100% black origin" (He is very black), he would be qualified to become president. He said that only those who are in this category can become president.

7. Charles said he would need the "moral and economic help of the US Government and people" to transform Haiti into a true and prosperous democracy. He said he would need about one year to put into effect his "plan for the economic and social development of Haiti," which, among others has these salient points:

a. Creation of a balanced economy adapted to Haitian conditions
b. Development of industry and exploitation of natural resources
c. Modernization of agriculture

8. Charles would like to present his plan to US officials for consideration. He said about 90% of Haitians are against Duvalier, who maintains his rule by keeping the militia strong. But Duvalier no longer has funds to pay the militiamen but allows them to "live off the land." Charles believes that in the event of an anti-Duvalier uprising, the army would kill the hated militiamen who are proven responsible only to Duvalier.

9. Once Duvalier is finished, Charles would suggest that as a goodwill gesture toward the Haitians, who are overwhelmingly pro-US, the US construct the promised airport and thus create jobs. Another way to bolster the economy would be to encourage tourists.

10. Charles hopes the Dominican Republic will not invade Duvalier': Haiti. He believes the Dominicans could easily defeat Haiti's army and militia but an invasion would cause the Haitians to rally around Duvalier in defense of their country.

11. Before leaving Port-au-Prince, Charles worked out a telephone code with his wife, Sophie. On 30 Apr 63, he called her, and she told him "not to rush home," which meant that his life might be in danger if he returned to Haiti now. In view of this, he told the Haitian Consul in New York that he has to stay a few days longer to buy parts for machines used in his Haitian sisal enterprise.

12. Charles gave the following date concerning his career: He went to parochial school; in 1937, was graduated from Lycée Goffrard, Gonaives; taught in rural schools after his father's death in 1939, and also supported his family by working as upholsterer, timekeeper, plantation supervisor and

SECRET
CONTROLLED DLJEM TO DLJEM ABROAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET
-3-
000-3,260,765
free-lance journalist. In 1947 he was appointed controller general of southern Haiti banana industry and became general agent in 1948. In 1949 he established his own export-import business. In 1953 he went to London as member of a Haitian government economic mission. In 1954 on behalf of Haiti he negotiated a contract with General Electric, Ltd., of Coventry, UK, for modernization and extension of Haiti's telecommunications system. In 1957 he was appointed member of a Haitian mission to an international conference in Brussels. In 1960 he founded Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, of which he is sole owner. In addition, he is full or part owner of the following Haitian enterprises: Universal Enterprises SA; National Deutsch (sic) (associates); Clemard Joseph Charles Import-Export; a South Haiti cocoa enterprise; J.C. Charles & Co. He is sole representative of General Electric, Ltd., of London, and Siemens Schukert Werke, West Germany. In the past few years he has made many business trips to the US, UK, France, Italy and West Germany. He said he had invested about US$500,000 in the Haitian economy and as a patriot under no circumstances will he take money out of Haiti.

MERIT

13. Charles, who is married and has one adopted son, has received many honors, including the Civil Merit Order, Officer of the Labor Order, etc. In 1962 he was given the Key of the City of New York.

14. Charles concluded by saying that in the world today there are two alternatives: The US or the USSR. He says he and his group have chosen the US. As to how to get rid of Duvalier, he said "the tyrant may be killed by the army" before 22 May 63. He did not elaborate; he merely called attention to Trujillo's fate.

CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO DISSEM ABROAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999

DATE: 2 MAY 1964

FROM: NA CITEREVODOD

TRANSMIT TO:

ITOR CIT: W

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

ROUTINE
ORIGINATING OFFICER:
LATIRIMA DR

PRIORITY

URGENT

CONFIDENTIIAL

TYPE IN CAPITAL LETTERS, DOUBLE SPACED

NEW CASE 40556: RE FREUND-CZATKOWSKI TELECONS OF 1 AND 2 MAY: THE FOLLOWING

REQUIREMENTS ARE SUBMITTED FOR CLEVORD JOSEPH CHARLES

A. WHOM DOES CHARLES SEE AS THE MOST DESIRABLE INTERIM PRESIDENT IN
CASE DUVALIER IS OUSTED? WHAT ARE HIS REASONS FOR THIS PREFERENCE?

B. WHAT IS SOURCE'S ASSESSMENT OF CERTAIN HAITIAN POLITICAL FIGURES WHO ARE
COMMONLY CHARACTERIZED AS LEFTISTS OR COMMUNISTS AMONG THOSE ARE PAUL
BLANCHET, ADRISS CT. ARMAND AND HERVE BOYER. DOES WE BELIEVE THAT THEY
ARE UNDER MOSCOW DISCIPLINE?

C. DOES CHARLES KNOW ANYTHING OF THE REPORTED ENTRANCE INTO HAITI IN EARLY
APRIL OF A SMALL NUMBER OF CZECH MILITARY TECHNICIANS?

D. WE WOULD BE INTERESTED IN BACKGROUND DATA ON CHARLES, SEE CASE 402571
ALSO, WE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE THE PLACE AND DATE OF HIS BIRTH FOR NAME CHECK
PURPOSES.

00/c learned from Army intel
that Charles...

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

☐ UNCLASSIFIED  ☐ CONFIDENTIAL  ☑ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Chief, DO/COEO

| TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. DO/COEO/Allen                                     |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 2. DO/COEO/Bessette                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3. RI/AN Attn: Dick Leach                            |      |                    | Please classify into -200-6-203/3 201-357029                                                            |
| 4.                                                   |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5. ROUTING                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6. RID/AN                                            |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7. RID/MIS                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8. RID/PS                                            |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9. DO/COEO/Bessette                                  |      |                    | File Copy - 201 file                                                                                    |
| 10.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |

EXTENSION NO. IX-122

2224 DATE 2 May 1963

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999

FORM 610
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

☑ SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL  ☐ UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999

IX-122
2 May 1963

CONTACT REPORT

WUBRINY - M. Clemard Joseph CHARLES

1. WUBRINY/1 telephoned on the sterile line from Chicago, on his way to the West Coast, to report his final contact before departing with subject.

2. Subject telephoned WUBRINY/1 on 1 May and said that because of the recent unpleasant developments in Haiti he thought it would be quite inappropriate to continue discussions regarding WUSALINE possible investment in the area at least until things were clarified.

3. M. CHARLES indicated that he was returning to Haiti shortly and asked if WUBRINY/1 could visit him there. WUBRINY/1 said that he would consider this or have one of his representatives go, if it later seemed desirable. He indicated, however, a continuing interest in the investment picture in Haiti if, as, and when.

C. FRANK STONE, III
Chief
DO/COEO

DO/COEO/CFS:jj(2 May 1963)
Distribution:
Orig - EO subject
- EO chrono
  1- WUBRINY Ops

![stamp with abstract and date boxes and the number 122]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999

IX-104
30 April 1963

CONTACT REPORT
WUBRINY - Haitian Operation

1. WUBRINY/1 telephoned from his residence on the sterile
   lim at approximately 0930 hours to report the following.

2. WUBRINY/1 said that he believed that the meeting that
   is to be held by Mr. CHARLES and WUBRINY/1 plus an unnamed third
   party would involve a Mr. Tardieu.

3. I told WUBRINY/1 here had been considerable interest
   in this general development on the part of the Department of
   State and cited (without identification) A-406, Amembassy, Port-
   au-Prince, dated April 11, 1963, subject: U.S. Businessman Signs
   Contracts with Haitian Government and Local Bank. I told WUBRINY/1
   that the Department information I had before me cited Le Moniteur
   of March 13, 1963 and said that the Airgram also mentioned a
   Mr. Rert Cindine TARDIEU. I also gave WUBRINY/1 the points raised
   under "comment" on page 2 of the Airgram.

4. WUBRINY/1 said that he agreed with all of these comments
   as he had come to the same conclusions.

5. I told WUBRINY/1 that there was obviously considerable
   intereer in any reporting that he can do on the subject and
   requested that he let me know when the meating takes place and
   continue his detiled reporting as heretofore. He agreed to do so.

C. FRANK STONE, III
Chief
DO/COEO

DO/COEO/CFS133(30 Apr 63)
Distribution:
* 10 subject
* EO chron
* WUBRINY Ops

![Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-419

FROM: AMEMBASSY, PORT-AU-PRINCE

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: CONVERSATION WITH CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES
OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI ON APREL I
18, 1963


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
DO/HQT
Rm. 5 B 2825

ENSION
4551
DATE
25 April 1963

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                                | DATE                                     | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. DO/COEO Attn: Gale W. Allen | RECEIVED <br> FORWARDED <br> 30 APR 1963 |                    | 2-4.                                                                                                    |
| 2. C/DO/CoEO                   | MAY 1 1963                               |                    | Suggest additional                                                                                      |
| 3. DODS/ops/Janney             | MAY 1 1963                               |                    | info obtained from B/I be added to the official 201-                                                    |
| 4. DO/COFU/ALLEN               |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5.                             |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                             |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7.                             |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                             |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9.                             |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 10.                            |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                            |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                            |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                            |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                            |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                            |                                          |                    |                                                                                                         |

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL
1999

FORM
610

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

![CIA historical review program logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
# RELEASE IN FULL
# 1999

MEMORANDUM FOR: DO/COEO

IX No. 76
23 April 1963

ATTENTION: Mr. Gale W. Allen

SUBJECT: Trace Reply - Clenard Joseph CHARLES

REFERENCE: DO/COEO Memorandum dated 23 April 1963 requesting traces on CLEMARD, Joseph Charles

1. There are no traces on Clemard Joseph CHARLES (201-357-029) born 21 April 1923 at Gonaives, Haiti, who is President and General Manager of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, in RID or at the WH/Haitian Desk. In March 1963, Biographics Register prepared a summary of information on Mr. CHARLES for inclusion in the Biographic Intelligence Report on Haitian Opposition Personalities. This summary is made up of information obtained from several different sources. One source classifies CHARLES as a slippery character who is active on the Haitian scene and refers to him as a "promoter" rather than a businessman, who endeavers to attract United States "venture" capital for various Haitian projects and then becomes a partner by virtue of the promotion. Biographics Register has a very high opinion of this Source, who is the State Department's Haiti Desk Officer. During a debriefing on CHARLES, in February 1963, this same source stated that CHARLES is a confidant of President Duvalier and that he has emerged as an active businessman by virtue of his priviledged position with the President.

2. Another source of information regarding CHARLES' business interests is the President of the National Bank of Haiti who considers CHARLES, himself, as dishonest. For example, according to Source, CHARLES approved a loan of $14,000.00 on his daughter's signature alone. Also, the Commercial Bank of Haiti held a worthless portfolic made up

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SUBJECT: Trace Repl; Clemard Joseph CHARLES

of notes guaranteed by political figures. This Source also stated that CHARLES was "something of a favorite of the President, who gave him support."

3. Attached to this memorandum is a copy of Department of State Airgram No. A-325, dated 16 February 1963, from the United States Embassy, Port-Au-Prince, Haiti, subject: Banking: Balance Sheet of the Banque Commerciale d'Haiti which includes some information on CHARLES' life story. You will note the comment in the last paragraph of Airgram A-325 that reads, ". . . Be all that as it may, the Embassy has no strongly adverse information concerning Mr. Charles' integrity or banking honesty. And as the balance sheet shows, his bank, if not thriving, is at least still a going concern."

4. It may be that a check with 00/C through Mr. Schreyer's office and a request for field station traces will provide additional information concerning CHARLES. A copy of this memorandum is being forwarded to RID with a request for a 201 file on Subject which will be forwarded to you on permanent charge.

Anna Panor
Anna Panor
DO/HQT

Enclosures:

1.  State Airgram No. A-325 (copy)
2.  Draft BR Summary


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE IN FULL

1999

24 April 1963

CONTACT REPORT

WUERIFY/1 - Ambassador Boengnignca - Clemard Joseph Charles

1. Ambassador Boengnignca had previously informed MUERIFY/1 that Clemard Joseph Charles, President of the Commercial Bank of Haiti, was coming to New York on 24 April and suggested that WUERIFY/1 might work with his in financing Boengaigaon's diplomatic residence in Haiti.

2. Mr. Allen informed VOORINY/1 that Charles is a confident of President Devalier and could be expected to report on all Americans with whom he had conversations and the substance of these conversations. WUERIFY/1 was admonished that in any contact with Charles the security of WU/L's relationship with KUMOK should be uppermost in his mind. WUERIFY/1 was informed that Charles is reported as a brainstorm of questionable repute. He is characterized as slippery, dishonest, and more of a promoter than businessman. His bank holds a worthless portfolio of notes guaranteed by political signatures. For example, he approved a loan of $14,000 for his daughter on her signature alone. He is also reported to be a partner in the bank rather than sole owner, as is alleged.

3. Mr. Allen said that Charles was of great interest and that we would like to know why he was in the U. S. at this time. WIN/1 was admonished in any conversations with Charles to concentrate on economic rather than on political matters unless Charles himself first raised political matters. It was suggested to 5/1 that he might inquire about Haiti's economic status, the outlook for the coffee crop on which Haiti's economy may stand or fall, and how the currency is being handled in the absence of a foreign aid program.

4. It was further suggested to WERIFY/1 that should the conversation with Charles get lease that he might inquire as to whether top Haitian officials are subting coiffe funds outside the country and question the rationale for an expensive inaugural celebration for the President, given the bad state of the Haitian economy. VUOT/1 said that he could easily send the flight of capital question by discussing the availability of Haitian capital for investment outside Haiti.

5. /1 said that in view of the delicacy of this operation that he would wear his other hat, i.e., represent his own firm rather than WUALLIME in making this contact. By preview no problems stating

> [Figure: A box containing the text 'GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification']


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

that it is routine for business people to ascertain Ash other's views. Essere. Otome and Allen occurred in the use of private firm and admonished WEREX/1 to keep Charine on the string in view of our interest in him.

6. Mr. Allen indicated to that we were definitely interested in Benegnigard and wanted a good endorsement such as Game on FALAB/1. said that this prevented zo prehisa. Es stated that he had not specifically asked Bennguignan who his opposition coupes are because he did not want Benegnigasa to become enlecious.

Shaw.Allen

Distributions
* Orig - TBB Tbbd
* 1 - TBB Ops
* 1 - Ramsey
* 1 - Bt Graves
* 1 - Coaile 201

> [Figure] GROUP 1
> Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

ROUTING

201-97839

SECRET
(When Filled in)

ORIG. HELEN & MORGAN

UNIT WH/6/H

EXT. 4506

DATE 7 MAY 1963

CONFIRMATION COPIES WH 11

INFORMATION COPIES
CI/IC, CI/OPS,, FI/D, FI, FI/INT 6, IW 2, CA/04, CA/PEG 2, CA 2, SAS 5

DATE DISTRIBUTED
7 MAY 1963

|           | DISSEMINATION |
| --------- | ------------- |
| WH/6/H 3  | WH/FRIN 1     |
| WH/6/DR 1 | WH/PACY 1     |
|           | WH/SNTO 1     |
|           | JMWAVE 1      |


EVALUATION REQUESTED
OF

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR

X ROUTINE

PRECEDENCE

BASED ON (Fid. Rpt., Prot)
WAVE 8122 (IN 32935)
NO PROJECT
EMTIN-1
LIAISON

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

RECOMMEND FOR EXO

RELAY REQUEST ATTACHED FOR RELAY TO DOPA

DD/P INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER(S)

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
SAS/INTEL/R (BY PHONE)

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET
(When filled in)

RELEASING OFFICER
C. Baner
57/MES/R

COPY TO:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C Secs. 793 and 794; the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED LISSEM

COUNTRY HAITI

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/654,521

SUBJECT REMARKS MADE BY FELIX FRANCIS CONCERNING THE HAITIAN SITUATION

DATE DISTR. 7 MAY 1963

DATE OF 5 MAY 1963
INFO.

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE & UNITED STATES (6 MAY 1963)
DATE ACQ.

REFERENCES TDCSDB-3/654,459
IN 32935

APPRAISAL 3 (THAT THE REMARKS WERE MADE)
FIELD REPORT NO. UFO-2784

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE CUBAN (F) IN TOUCH WITH PRO AND ANTI-DUVALIER HAITIANS, FROM FELIX FRANCIS, WHO HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS A CONFIDANT OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER.

1. ON 5 MAY 1963 RUDOLPH BABOUN, HAITIAN CONSUL GENERAL IN MIAMI, TOLD FELIX FRANCIS THAT IT WAS THE BELIEF OF THE HAITIAN FOREIGN OFFICE THAT THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC WOULD NOT ATTACK HAITI UNLESS THE UNITED STATES INTERVENED MILITARILY, BABOUN SAID THAT THIS BELIEF WAS SUBSTANTIATED BY INFORMATION WHICH THE HAITIAN FOREIGN OFFICE OBTAINED FROM ALBERTO ZULETA ANGEL, HEAD OF THE COMMISSION OF THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (OAS) WHICH VISITED HAITI.

2. FRANCIS SAID THAT THE ONLY RESISTANCE TO THE REGIME OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER WAS THE WEAK CLANDESTINE GROUP HEADED BY CLEMENT BARBOT. HE ALSO SAID THAT IT IS DOUBTFUL THAT BARBOT COULD TOPPLE DUVALIER, HOWEVER,

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC OCI ONE OCA

REPOLNOLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS
SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM
TDCS DB-3/654,521
IN 32935
PAGE 2

IF SUCCESSFUL, HE WOULD PROBABLY INSTALL JOSEPH D. CHARLES, FORMER HAITIAN
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES, AS HEAD OF THE GOVERNING JUNTA.

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE (MIAMI) CINCLANT CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

COR (5)

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROL
SEORET/MO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

VITATOT
ZERSE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

XXXXX ZEA

SECRET TOTO 061708Z

FRITY VA CITE NYOR 8910

L/A BR INFO SUPPORT (STUNTZ) AND CZAJKOWSKI

GROUP ONE EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

CASE 40556

THIS IS REPORT NY 2147-3 FOR 00-A(S) CREDIT.

1. THE SITUATION CONCERNING CLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES/ACTIVITIES IS JUST AS "FLUID" AS THE SITUATION IN HAITI. CHARLES ADVISED US THAT HIS FRIEND OF MRS. DOROTHY MATLOCK (SEE WHAT I MEAN BY "FLUID"?) HAD CHANGED HIS TRAVEL PLANS TO WASHINGTON. INSTEAD OF TUESDAY HE (DRYER) NOW EXPECTS TO BE IN WASHINGTON IN THURSDAY OR FRIDAY. CHARLES INDICATED THAT HE WOULD BE WILLING TO GO TO WASHINGTON SOME TIME THIS WEEK. HE ASKED US TO SEE HIM AGAIN THIS AFTERNOON. OUR MEETING (THE THIRD SINCE THIS WEEK. HE ASKED US TO SEE HIM AGAIN THIS AFTERNOON. OUR MEETING (THE THIRD SINCE LAST THURSDAY) IS SCHEDULED AT 1430. BALOG (STILL CAPTAIN BALOG, US ARMY TO CHARLES) WILL GET IN TOUCH WITH STUNTZ RE THEIR TELECON AFTER BALOG-CHARLES MEETING.

2. CHARLES TOLD US THAT HIS "SPIRITUAL FATHER", B. GINDINE TARDIEU, A FRENCH CITIZEN, A CONSULTANT TO CHARLES' BANK IN PORT-AU-PRINCE IS IN NEW YORK NOW. TARDIEU WHO HAS SPENT AT LEAST 26 YEARS IN HAITI, IS NOW STAYING AT THE PARK SHERTON HOTTEL, ROOM 2032.

SECRET

FRITY NYOR 8910 L/A INFO (STUNTZ) CZAJKOVSKI BALOG 40556 NY 2147-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

XXXXX ZEA

SECRET TOTG 931836Z

PRITY VA CITE NYOR 8918

3 may

PRIORITY

LA BR INFO CZAJKOWSKI FROM BALO3

GROUP ONE EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

CASE 48556

THIS IS REPORT NY-2128-3 FOR OG-A(S) CREDIT. ITUS SUPPLEMENTAL.

TO NY-2119-3.

1. AT HIS REQUEST, ON 3 MAY 63 WE HAD AN ADDITIONAL INTERVIEW WITH CLEWARD JOSEPH CHARLES. HE INFORMED US THAT HE HAD RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM JOSEPH F. DRYER, TAMPA, FLORIDA. DRYER TOLD CHARLES THAT HE COULD NOT SEE HIM OVER THE WEEK END, BUT WOULD VISIT HIM IN NEW YORK CITY NEXT WEDNESDAY, 8 MAY. PRIOR TO THAT DRYER PLANS TO MEET IN WASHINGTON DC JACQUELINE DELMAR, 3130 P STREET, NY, TEL: FE 3-9966, A FRIEND OF RISS MADLOCK'S TO DISCUSS "THINGS OF MIITAL INTEREST CONCERNING HAITI."

2. CHARLES TALKED TO US ABOUT THE VORSENING SITUATION IN HAITI. HE BELIEVES THAT IT WAS TIME FOR THE US TO LAND THE MARINES IN HAITI TO LIBERATE THE COUNTY FROM "MADMAN DUVALIER" AND PROTECT THE LIVES OF AMERICANS THERE. HE FEELS THAT THE US SHOULD ACT LINDER THE AEGIS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

OF OAS IN THE INTEREST OF HEMISPHERIC SOLIDARITY. HE MENTIONEL THAT WE US DID NOT HESITATE TO SEND MARINES TO LERANCY WHEN IIS INTERESTS WERE THREATENED.

3. CHARLES DECIDED TO STAY IN NEW YORK *FOR THE TIES BEING*. TODAY HE SENT A CABLE TO HIS BANK IN PORT-AU-PRINCE INDICATING THAT HIS BUSINESS TRANSACTION (RUYING MACHINE PARTS FOR HIS ENTERPRISES) VILL KEEP HIM IN US FOR AWHILE.

4. DISCUSSING THE REPORTED MASSACRE OF ANTI-DUVALIER ARMY OFFICERS CHARLES URGED FAST ACTION ON PART OF US. HE REITERATED HIS OPINION THAT DUVALIER WOULD BE "ELIMINATED" RY 22 MAY, BUT WARNED AGAINST LETTIVO

ANTI-DUVALIER EXILES NOW IN THE DOMINICAN PEPUPLIC. CUDA AND ELSEWHERE RETURN TO HAITI AND *START SHOOTING THERE*. WE SELIEVES THAT THE BEST POLICY FOR THE US TO FOLLOW WOULD BE TO COME TO AN AGREEMENT WITH LEADING MAITIAN ARMY OFFICERS. IN ADDITION TO PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED NARES, HE FEELS THAT GENERAL CONSTANT, COL. CHAM AND COL CAILLARD COULD BE VOR OVER FOR COOPERATION. HE CLAIMS TO KNOW THESE OFFICERS WELL AND CASE OF LANDING OF US MARINES HE VOULD PE GLAD TO GO ALONG AND SERVE AS AN INTERMEDIARY. HE FEELS THAT HE HAS ENOUGH INFLUENCE TO BRING ABOUT SITUATION VITHOUT BLOODSHED IN WHICH SETTING UP A PROVISIONAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

GOVERNMENT VOULD BE FEASIPLE. IF NECESSARYUE VOULD BE WILL IN TO STAY
IN THE BACKGROUND IN THE ROLE OF "SMINENCE GRIS FOR THE GOOD OF HIS
COUNTRY.

SECRET

CFN PRITY NYOR 8918 L/A BR INFO CZAJKOWSKI BALO 46556 NY-2128-3 30-A(3)
CREDIT NY-2119-3 3 MAY 63 CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES A JOSEPH F. DRYER
TAMPA NOT SEE NEW YORK WEDNESDAY & MAY PRIOR DC
JACQUELINE DELMAR 313P P STREET, VW, TEL: FE 3-9066 A MISS MADLOCK'S
"THINGS OF MIITAL INTEREST CONCERNING HAITI
US DIJVALIER US AEGIS OAS US NOT HESITATE LEBANON LIS A PORT-AI-PRINCE
US ANTI-DUVALIER US TELIMINATED" 22 MAY IIS GENERAL CONSTANT, COL.
CHAN COL CAILLARD US A WITHOUT BLOODSHED A PROVISIONAL EMINENCE PIS
MBT
63/20262 MAY ESG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Miami, Florida

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20535

FILE NO. (If any)

DATE

A-2

December 29, 1966

The allon listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or Section 101 (a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

FAMILY NAME (Capital Letters)

CHARLES

Clemard

Middle Initial

COUNTRY OF CI বিবসSHIP

Haiti

UNITED STATES ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Zip Code)

Consulate General of Haiti, Miami, Fla.

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL

PAA 432

Number, Street, City, Province (State) and Country PERMANENT RESIDENCE

626 Facet, Port An in
Haiti

BIRTH DATE

BIRTA PLACE

4-21-23

Consivos, Baiti

NA140501-36/02952-66 Sutillas aboul

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSIONE

129 am 67 not

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION

DESTINATION

Duration

Def

Other agencies the remaind ta furalah say derogatory subversive Information regarding this alles to the F. B. I.

Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control

Fill 201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20535

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or Section 101 (a) 15 (G) of the immigration and Nationality Act.

FAMILY NAME (Capital Letters)

CITY
COUNTRY OF CITIZENSHIP

Haiti
UNITED STATES ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Zip Code)

Ambassador of Haiti, Washington, D. C.
AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL

PAA 234
Number, Street, City, Province (State) and Country of PERMANENT RESIDENCE

BIRTH DATE
Pecot, Port au Prince, Haiti
BIRTH PLACE

4-21-32
Haiti

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION

11-27-66
NYC
PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
DESTINATION
DA

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this alien to Immigration and Naturalization Service.

cc: CIA
O.S.I.
State Dept:
JWP
Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control
File in 201-3570244


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

17/2

FILE NO. (if any)

DATE:
7/17/65

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 101 (a) 15 (A) or 101 (a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

|                      |         |                           |
| -------------------- | ------- | ------------------------- |
| NAME (Last, in CAPS) | (First) | (Middle)                  |
| CHARLES - Clemand    |         | NATIONALITY (Citizenship) |
| Haiti                |         |                           |

UNITED STATE ADDRESS
Haitian Consul - NYC

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
PAA. 119

PERMANENT ADDRESS
Pacut #26  PTO prince Haiti

|            |                |
| ---------- | -------------- |
| BIRTH DATE | BIRTH PLACE    |
| 7/13/66    | GONALUES Haiti |

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
7/13/66

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
43

OFFICIAL D/S

DESTINATION
Haitian Consul - nyc

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this alien to the P. R. 1.

![signature of Deputy Associate Commissioner Travel Control]

![signature of other department]

![NAI 2 Aug 66]

Form 1-17
(Rev. 9-15-63)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Haturalization Service

Miami, Florida

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters., All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20535

![signiture]

A-2
DATE
5-3-67

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or Section 101 (a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

FAMILY NAME (Capital Letters)
CHARLES

First Name
CLEMARD

Middle Initial
J.

COUNTRY OF CLILZENSHIP
HAITI

UNITED STATES ADDRESS (Number, Streat, City, State, Zip Code)
WALDORF ASTORIA
NEW YORK CITY

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
PAA 432

Number, Street, City, Province (State) and Country of PERMANENT RESIDENCE
PORT AU PRINCE
HAITI

BIRTH DATE
4-21-23

BIRTH PLACE
Gonsives, Haiti

CHARLES CLEMARD Joseph

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
4-30-67 Hiami, Fla.

PURPOSE AND ENGTH OF ADMISSION
official-dur. of status

DESTINATION
above U.S..

th

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive Information regarding this allen to the F. B. I..

![Signiture]

Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 28 DECEMBER 1966

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET - NO FORN DISSEM

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HAITI
INTERNAL SECURITY - HATTI

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten e tries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20535

FILE NO. (If any)

DATE
12-4-66

The allen listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or Section 101 (a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

FAMILY NAME (Capital Lette/s)
CHARLES Clemmard J.
First Name
Middle Initial

COUNTRY OF CITIZENSHIP
Haiti

UNITED STATES ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Zip Code)
Ambassador of Haiti, Washington, D. C.

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
PAA 234
Number, Street, City, Province (State) and Country of PERMANENT RESIDENCE

BIRTH DATE
Peeot , Port au Prime, Haiti
BIRTH PLACE
4-21 32
Haiti

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
22-2-66
NYC
PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
A-2
DESTINATION
A/2

Other egencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive Information regarding this allen to

C.I.A.
O.S.I.
State Dept..
ΟΝ.Ι.

Jwp
Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control

File in 201-3570294


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-357029
X-REF TO FILE NO. 201-739205
FILE RID RET TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG. 201-737125
DISSEM BY PER

ACTION IW (ELH) RID COPY ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED

INFO VR. FILE, ADDP, CA 2. CA/PEG, CA/PROP. CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D CS/DO FI/INT 6, SOD 4, DO/H 5, CA/O 4, CI/PS, FI/SPG, CS/SGO, WH/REG 8, WH/7/H/RE 3, WH/C 9

![An abstract and handwriting on it]

SECRET 191615Z CITE PORT AU PRINCE 4164
DIRECTOR INFO REP/LANT, PANAMA CITY, JMWAVE

INTEL

SUPDATA: EVMISER-1. FIELD COMMENT PARA FIVE FROM

EVLEMON-2. NO INDEX.

FILED 191615Z

S-E-C-R-E-T

![Stamp MICROFILMED DEC 1 1966]

B 201-73920.5
B 201-73712.5

19 Nov 6
201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

* ROUTINE

IN 42726

PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JCS SECOEF NSA NIC AID USIA SDO ONE OCR ORR DCS CGS CIA/NMCC

FBI I&NS

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT. NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE.

CITE TDCS-314/15055-66

192027Z

DIST 19 NOVEMBER 1966

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI MID-NOVEMBER 1966

SUBJECT POWER JOCKEYING AMONG GOVERNMENT LEADERS

ACQ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE, 18 NOVEMBER 1966 HTP-971

SOURCE A HAITIAN STUDENT AND MEMBER OF THE CLANDESTINE

CATHOLIC ACTION PERSONNALISTE MOVEMENT WHO HAS

MANY CONTACTS AMONG CATHOLIC, COMMUNIST, AND

DUVALIERIST STUDENTS. SOURCE USUALLY REPORTS

ACCURATELY THE INFORMATION HE RECEIVES. HE

RECEIVED THIS INFORMATION FROM FOUR DIFFERENT

SOURCES WITH ACCESS TO OPPOSITION AND PRO-

DUVALIER CIRCLES INCLUDING FRANTZ LEROY, PRIVATE

SECRETARY TO AGRICULTURE MINISTER VICTOR NEVERS

CONSTANT.

1. WITHIN DUVALIER'S ENTOURAGE THERE ARE THREE

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

IN 42726
TDCS-314/15055-66
PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

PERSONS VYING FOR POWER AFTER THE FALL OF PRESIDENT DUVALIER. THEY ARE JOSEPH CLEMARD CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE HAITIAN BANK OF COMMERCE, CLOVIS DESINOR, MINISTER OF FINANCE, AND LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS. EACH OF THEM HAVE THEIR SUPPORTERS WITHIN THE GOH OR DUVALIER POWER STRUCTURES AND SOME HAVE SUPPORT FROM SOME OPPOSITIONISTS. ALL THREE REMAIN OUTWARDLY PRO-DUVALIERIST AND THERE ARE NO SIGNS THAT THEY INTEND TO TRY TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER THEMSELVES. THEY ARE PRESENTLY JOCKEYING FOR SUPPORT FOR THEIR BID FOR POWER WHEN DUVALIER LEAVES THE PRESIDENCY.

2. CLOVIS DESINOR IS CONSIDERED TO BE THE MOST POWERFUL. HE HAS THE SUPPORT OF COLONEL JACQUES LAROCHE, ASSISTANT CHIEF OF STAFF, AND IS WIDELY CONSIDERED TO BE A RUTHLESS AND UNSCRUPULOUS SEEKER OF POWER. (SOURCE COMMENT: DESINOR HELD POSTS UNDER PRESIDENTS DUMAR SA IS ESTIME AND PAUL MAGLOIRE YET SUPPORTED THE OVERTHROW OF BOTH THESE PRESIDENTS.)

3. JOSEPH CLENARD CHARLES HAS THE SUPPORT OF FORMER ASSISTANT FINANCE MINISTER LIONEL LAJOIE AND AGRICULTURE

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

IN .4726

TDCS-314/15055-66

PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM

MINISTER VICTOR N. CONSTANT PLUS THAT OF SEVERAL PPO-DUVALIER
BUSINESSMEN IN PORT AU PRINCE.

4. LUCKNER CAMBRONNE HAD THE SUPPORT OF COLONEL
   DANIEL BEAUVOIR AND THEREFORE LOST GROUND WHEN BEAUVOIR
   WAS DISMISSED FROM THE ARMY AND TOOK ASYLUM IN THE BRAZILIAN
   EMBASSY. THE HOUSE OF CAMBRONNE'S MISTRESS, NEE LAFOREST,
   WHO IS THE SISTER OF MRS BEAUVOIR, WAS PILLAGED BY THE
   MILIT IA ALONG WITH THE HOUSE OF BEAUVOIR, AND THIS IS
   INTERPRETED BY MANY OBSERVERS AS AN INDICATION OF CAMBRONNE'S
   LACK OF INFLUENCE WITHIN THE GOH HIERARCHY. WITHIN THE PALACE
   IT IS RUMORED THAT CAMBRONNE WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO KEEP HIS DEPUTY'S
   SEAT FROM ARCA HAIE IN THE JANUARY ELECTION AND THAT HE WILL
   BE REPLACED BY DABELMAR, MENTOR. (FIELD COMMENT:
   IN 1961, DABELMAR MENTOR WAS SECRETARY GENERAL OF
   THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE.)

5. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER RELIABLE SOURCE WITH EXCELLENT
   CONTACTS WITHIN THE GOH HAS REPORTED MUCH THE SAME INFORMATION
   AS ABOVE.)

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, ARMY, CINCLANT, CINCSO.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSM

S-E-C-R-E-T

201-557029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-77CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
X-REF TO FILE NO. 201-35702
FILE RID RET. TO: BIANCH
DESTROY SIG.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

DISSEM BY 2
ACTION

WH 8
ADVANCE COPY
INFO
RIED COPY
ISSUED BLOTTER
FILE, VR, IDP, ADD, CT, CF/PRS, FI, FI/ENT2

PRIN

SECREI 211435Z CITE PORT AU PRINCE 3939
21 JUL 66 IN 61072
DIRECTOR

1. EVMOUNT-1 REPORTED 19 JULY FOLLOWING:

A. FROM HIGH RANKING PALACE SOURCE WHO CLAIMS
OBTAINED INFO FROM TOP PALACE PERSONALITY THAT CLEMARD
JOSEPH CHARLES TRAVELED TO ITALY TO ARRANGE CONTACT AND
PAYMENT OF 125 THOUSAND DOLLARS TO WOFACT OFFICER WHO
KEEPING DUVALIER INFORMED RE WOFACT PLANS FOR HAITI. - *wow!!!*

B. FROM SEPARATE SIMILAR SOURCE THAT DUVALIER
RECEIVING INFO FROM POLE WHO MILITARY LEADER WOFACT
SUPPORTED CARIBBEAN LEGION.

C. FROM SAME SOURCE A ABOVE THAT PRESIDENT
JOHNSON SENT DUVALIER PEN USED BY JOHNSON IN SIGNING IMPORTANT
CIVIL RIGHTS LEGISLATION.

2. EVMOUNT-1 ANESAIEMISE DUVALIER LEAKING FALSE
   INFO IN EFFORT TRACK DOWN INFORMERS IN ENTOURAGE. FOR THIS
   REASON EVMOUNT-1 HAS NOT SENT INFO TO EVMEND.

3. SEE ALSO PORT AU PRINCE EMBTEL 62.

SECRET

BT

SECRETI

21 JUL 66
201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDC RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 18

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIチまえね

ACTION WH 8

☑RID COPY ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED

INFO FILE, VR, IDD, 2000, CT, OTORS, ET, ECHONT2

SECRET 2114352 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 3939

DIRECT OR

21 JUL 66 IN 61072

1. EVMOUNT-1 REPORTED 19 JULY FOLLOWING:

A. FROM HIGH RANKING PALACE SOURCE WHO CLAIMS
OBTAINED INFO FROM TOP PALACE PERSONALITY THAT CLEMARD
JOSEPH CHARLES TRAVELED to ITALY TO ARRANGE CONTACT AND
PAYMENT OF 125 THOUSAND DOLLARS TO WOFACT OFFICER WHO
KEEPING DUVALIER INFORMED RE WOFACT PLANS FOR HAITI.

B. FROM SEPARATE SIMILAR SOURCE THAT DUVALIER
RECEIVING INFO FROM POLE WHO MILITARY LEADER WOFACT
SUPPORTED CARIBBEAN LEGION.

C. FROM SAME SOURCE A ABOVE THAT PRESIDENT
JOHNSON SENT DUVALIER PEN USED BY JOHNSON IN SIGNING IMPORTANT
CIVIL RIGHTS LEGISLATION.

2. EVMOUNT-1 ANE SAIEMISE DUVALIER LEAKING FALSE
   INFO IN EFFORT TRACK DOWN INFORMERS IN ENTOURAGE FOR THIS
   PEASON EVMOUNT-I HAS NOT SENT INFO TO EVMEND.

3. SEE ALSO PORI AU PRINCE EMBTEL 52.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

CHRONO

251-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration end Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish nemes shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's come following.

Director, Federal Bureau of lavestigation
Department of Justice.
Washingten 25, A. C.

## FILE NO. (any)
4/2

## DATE
7/17/66

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 101 (a) 15 (A) or 101 (9) 15 (6) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

| NAME (Last, in CAPS) | (Fust) | (Middle) | NATIONALITY (Citizenship) |
| -------------------- | ------ | -------- | ------------------------- |
| CHARLES - Clem and   |        |          | Haiti                     |

UNITED STATES ADDRESS

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
Hawkin Consul- 43c

PERMANENT ADDRESS
PAR 119

| BIRTH DATE | BIRTH PLACE      |
| ---------- | ---------------- |
| 7/13/66    | PTO prise Haiti. |

| DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION |                |
| --------------------------- | -------------- |
| 7/13/56                     | GONALVES Haiti |

| PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION |     |
| ------------------------------- | --- |
| Official D/S                    |     |

DESTINATION
Haitian Consul- 34c

Other egencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this alien to the F. B. 1.

![illegible text] 201~22 jul 66

![illegible text] NAI 2. Aug 66 Imz

![illegible text] Deputy Associate Commissioner Travel Control

![illegible text] 23 July 66 Ref.

![text in the buttom of the page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

FILE NO. (If any)

DATE
7-1-66

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 101 (a) 15 (A) or 101 (a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

NAME (Last, in CAPS) (First) (Middle) NATIONALITY (Citizenship)

N CHARLES CLEHARD HAITI

IN TRANSIT

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL

PA 26

PERMANENT ADDRESS

HAITIAN Consul, Port Au Prince

BIRTH DATE BIRTH PLACE

11-11-23 HAITI

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION

6-28-66 14C

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION

A.2 Q/5

DESTINATION

TRANSIT

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this alien to the F.B.I.

![photo of some annotations]

FILE IN 201-350029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 23 JUNE 1966

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HAITI

FBI FILE NO: 109-51 (CHICAGO)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Cites to DOE 3,260,843

![photo of page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# Attached # 2

00E 3,260,843

By Clemand Jeraph Charles

The very best way to affirm the existence of true democracy lies in the creation of a political agency which would constitute the inalienable rights of men to live, to enjoy freedom and happiness. A true and effective political decentralization would then corroborate the existence of this democracy.

Fully confident in the power of the truth which cannot over be hidden, much more in the indisputable justness of the cause we are endeavouring to diffuse; convinced of the practical possibility to put an end to the looming privileges of a minority whose personal interest stands against all honest and impartial government managements, as the son of peasants, we reaffirm here our faith in the final triumph of a true and indispensable political evolution through a broader representation of the interest of the people, thereby assuring to our miserable co-citizens still fighting for the acknowledgment of their most sacred rights now reasons to believe and to hope. In this view our action shall tend toward the evolution of our masses in order that they may enjoy living conditions compatible with their dignity. And by means of social productivity expressed in terms of the welfare of our rural population, we shall formulate the economic requirements of the country within the framework of a realist and rational program. In line with this goal we are outlining below a program for the economic reconstruction and the social promotion of our rural masses.

An objective consideration of the present condition of our country makes it clear that the solution of the country's social and economic problem lies in the following considerations:

1.- Creation of a balanced economy adapted to the conditions of the country;

2.- Development of Industry and exploitation, of our natural resources so as to promote an improvement of living conditions;

3.- Transformation of rural way of living and modernization of agriculture so that the peasants who represent the largest portion of the country's population come out of their ancestral misery and participate in the prosperity of the nation. And then, arrive at the integration of the rural population of the country in its economic life by means of literacy and the preparation of skilled workers in order to increase the productivity of the agricultural activities, also that of the traditional handcrafts and of the manufacturing Industries which are still got a primitive stage.

The formation of man and the preparation of leaders is a factor of primary importance for the speedy achievement of the contemplated objectives


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

- 2 -

Those phases of equal importance are linked together. Therefore, they cannot be separated without endangering the whole pattern. Of course errors have been made repeatedly. However, the straightening which is a must calls for a general review of the principles and objectives of our economic and financial policy, which should be considered the first steps to be taken towards a true economic start.

For a long time, the people responsible for our Economic and Financial Policy had built their programs upon illusions. The continuous demographic pressure and the influence of social progress, together with the normal desire of the different classes of the population to benefit a reasonable part of the national revenue, have made indispensable the development of a well balanced economy. This development can be conceived but in terms of industries using to the latest extent the raw materials and the resources of the country. As a matter of fact, the mobilization of these resources is paramount for the achievement of true progress in the way of political liberty and for the improvement of material living. Education, medical care, transportation facilities and the improvement of living conditions are the primary requirements for modernizing the living conditions of the population. To sum up, the increased production of riches through the creation of industries and the systematic exploitation of our subsoil, added to other natural assets, shall furnish the resources necessary to the adequate operation of our system. For fault of considering the situation in this point of view, any and all idea of generalized social welfare and national grandeur will remain purely a dream.

The modernization of agriculture, and the improvement of the rural way of living which will result therefrom should go abreast with Industrialization. The rapid increase of the rural population and the recession of infantile mortality, as well as the extension of life limit obtained through the application of Hygiene rules, make it necessary to use to the largest extent the rejects of agricultural production in Processing Manufactures in order to assure the surplus subsistence to the surplus population and, through the export of the thus processed agricultural rejects and products, supply the Treasury with the proper foreign exchange stock necessary to maintain a well balanced economy.

The improvement of the living standard, as said before, is subject to the adequate development of the production assets, which cannot be attained without the improvement of the people. Brought up to a level which make them aware of their needs and of the role that society and the development of their region request from them, those people will understand that the essential data of the problem reside in the followings better cultivated land, adequate equipment, creation of industries, application of experimented agricultural techniques, processing industries, skilled labor.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

It may be well to recall that at the Conference in Punta del Este was emphasized the importance of the transformation of the people in the development process of under developed countries.

All this leads to consider the protection and preservation of the understructure works of which the urgency cannot be underestimated. Electric power, roads, bridges, urbanism, irrigation and drainage system etc, are the factors that the contemplated development calls for its full realization.

Of course the Haitian State has always cared for the understructure equipment of the country. However, the investments - very important at times- to this end have been made without an all out plan, not with a statistical and rational estimate of the country's needs, but with such wastes in the execution that the general problem of the country's basis equipment is still a matter of consideration.

In Haiti, the National Capital comprises broadly the understructure equipment and the production equipment, as a result of the fact that our social and Economic System lacks a natural repartition of the functions as exist in the advanced countries where the state takes care of the understructure equipment while private enterprise engages in production. The obligation for the State to devote its activities to both the understructure and the production problem, the latter private initiative; cannot assume due to failure or lack of experience, compels new state to build proper methods and means to accelerate the formation of the National Capital through the adequate and honest exploitation of our financial sources.

To this end, we propose to build a program including the execution of specific projects already studied and for which the financing can be obtained from abroad.

### A.- PRIMARY FACILITIES:

1.- Hydro-electric Plant at Poligre ...................................................$ 20.000.000.-

2.- Electrification of the Southern Peninsula - Saut Mathurine-
Jaut du Caril & others .................................................................9.000.000.-

3.- Wharf and Airport - Port-au-Prince .................................................6.000.000.-

4.- Wharf and Port facilities in the Southern Peninsula ..........................3.000.000.-

5.- Market - Port-au-Prince ............................................................1.500.000.-

6.- Telecommunication system .........................................................4.000.000.-

7.- Sewage system - Port-au-Prince .................................................1.500.000.-

8.- Port-au-Prince - Layou (156 km) & Dufort-Jacmel (56 km) roads. ..........8.000.000.-

9.- Along the coast road, Miragoane - Jérémie .......................................4.000.000.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

10. Dam & Hydro-Electric Plant - Solo Livières ..................$ 7.000.000.-
11. Improvements - Water Supply - System - Port-au-Prince ......... 4.000.000.-

TOTAL ..................$ 68.000.000.-

B.- PROJECTS STILL IN THE DEVELOPMENT:

12. Sugar Mill in the Artibonite .........................
13. " " " Nord Ouest .........................
14. " " " South .........................
15. " " " North .........................
16. Vegetable Oil Refinery .........................
17. Cotton Oil Extracting Plant .........................
18. Tapioca Starch Extracting Plant .........................
19. Salt Refinery (Manaives) .........................
20. Sesame Oil Processing Plant .........................
21. Banana Industry .........................
22. Canned Fruits Plant .........................
23. Spinning Mill .........................
24. Kenaf Industry .........................

Estimated cost for the whole ..................$ 32.000.000.-
GRAND TOTAL ..................$ 100.000.000.-

Within the framework of the objectives outlined in this summary, we propose the creation of an agency titled "National Planning Committee". Concurrently with this Committee would be created a Bank for Economic Development.

The National Planning Committee would build a plan of general development of which the execution would spread over a period of 25 years, split into 5 year periods. The plans and programs applicable to each period would be executed under the close supervision of the Committee, and modified in accordance with such economic changes as may happen. The program would be maintained in a permanent basis. In the course of its execution and as a result of the possible modifications, would follow the curve of international progress and thereby remain actual.

First of all would be prepared a priority order which would be based on the nervous centers of the economy to be straightened. This priority order would embrace a well coordinated and concrete actions, based upon observation and experience.

The lack, or rather the absence of financial means against the important disbursements called for by the general program obliges to rely upon investments from abroad. It would be the duty of the Bank for Economic Development to channel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# 5

the forein under the form of rants - counterpart funds - or of private investments jointly with the mobilization of our national resources.

As for the assistance to be given to private initiative towards the development of new agricultural, industrial and commercial enterprises, it will be necessary to reorganize our banking system by the creation of a Central Bank: Stock Exchange, Mortgage Bank, Agricultural & Rural Credit Bank and other financial institutions such as: Savings & Credit Bank, Bank for Financing low cost housing for the people with low revenues, etc.

Besides, negotiations shall be made with the International Financing Company which has been created lately in order to finando national private enterprises. We will work jointly and closely with the International Monetary Funds, the BID, and the BID in view of obtaining the financing of a certain amount of revenue - producing projects. At the same time, we shall endeavour to strengthen the position of our national currency.

In addition, the Budgetary Reform will be accomplished. A National Budgetary policy which observes the difference between administrative expenses and capital expenditures shall permit a proper adaptation of the budget to the requirements of the economy so as to make of it a true instrument of a general policy.

Also The Fiscal policy shall take into account the requirements of the economy. A revision of the Customs Tariff shall be pursued and made. Measures shall also be taken to guaranty honesty and integrity in handling the State's Funds. Just consider that for the fiscal years 1949-1950 to 1956-57, the total disbursements of the state has reached the sum of Gs 1,350,596,631.-, or around $270.000.000.-, and that the largest portion of this sum has gone into triple expenses or served for spectacular works most of which with absolutely no economic justification. In this sum are not included neither the various financial disbursements made outside of the budget through loans obtained during the same period and which brought the public debt up to Gs 249,134.000.- or $49.836.000.- as at September 30, 1957, nor the expenses supported by the non-fiscal accounts and the various autonomous enterprises of the State. All this is the evidence that the formation of the National Capital can be worked out through sound administration.

As regard Public Finance, emphasis shall be made on the following points:

1.- Harmonization of the fiscal policy with the economic policy;

2.- Harmonization of the budgetary policy with the economic policy;

3.- Improvement of our banking system in to mainly smooth credit conditions;


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

4.- Creation of new private banks for the development of henderafst and industry;

5.- Reorganization of the suprete Court of Accounts upon such basis as shall suaren-
ty its most complete RLOLOGY;

6.- Reorjaniz sion of the Department of Finance. Integration of tho dinance Irapec-
tion Service and the valis Accounting within the General Accounting;

7.- Completo reform of our fiscal logislation by means of measures able to modify
the structure of fiscality so to attain a better orientation of the economic
and financial policy of the country;

8.- Remodelling our Cone of Commerce in order to give more guaranties to local and
foreign creditors, and to adapt the law to the requirements of internal exchange.

If the straightening of our public finance is of primary importance, production
and equipment are likewise necessary. Therefore, in the execution of the 25 year de-
velopment plan submittel and within the priority order to be invited out by the
National Planning Committee, serious consideration shall be given to the following
revenue producting and understructure projects:

a) Colonization and transformation of the rural centers through the integration:
of the agricultural section in the economic, political and social life of the
country in order to obtain better economic and social results, and to attain
the following primary objectivess

I: Increase production.

II: Build villages in order to avoid the dispersion of the rural groups and thus,
to better use the working force of the community:

III: Kaise the rural living standard, and,

IV: Assurs to the rural lavorer a permanent living upon the economic lot through
an adequate agrarian reforms fight the peasant's inclination to migrate to the
tonis and thereby, protout auriculture.

All of this implies that problems shall have to be sold in as various fields as
Education, Public Health, Housing, Transportation, Agricultural Credit, Agricultural
Extension, Apicultural Equipment, Irrigation, Drainage, Koforest ration and the
control of wision, doneco roads, Professional and Handicrafot Schools, Rural Poli-
ce, dlectric Power, lygiene, Santtution, Croclon of Cooperativon, Transformation
of our 550 Rural Jeations into village whore the priest, the doctor, the sanita-
tion Inspector, the Aricultural Aront, the Toucher, the Judge, the Tax Collecter,
the Minister, the Mayor, the natural londors of these villagos hall join together
toward mutual action holuding mainly the improvement of the diary, the orandaa-
tion of sound sooroutlom, a molitiontion in the unmint bohaviour of the peasant
witli regards to the problems of their familion and the community to watch tigr


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

- 7 -

audio-visual comters, movies with woli balanced program.s.

However, the transfer of part of the apicultural laver to Industry, to bo appreciable, shall necessitate the creation, besides the agricultural industrios, of other unterprises to process either the resources of our sub-coil, or imported raw-materials.

In this fiell, we shall concentrate our efforts on the followings:

1.- Project for the processing of coconus and vejotable oils.

2.- Frotory for doshyarato coconut for export

3.- Vegetable oil Extrating Plant cor local consumption.

4.- Toilet soap Frotory

5.- Extension of Palm oil Plants and Production of Oleaginous.

6.- Cocoa lroduction along with a Processing ilant.

7.- Extension of Cotton Production for a modern spinning-Hill.

8.- Spinning-Mill.

9.- Plant for the preparation of Hydrophil and Absorbent Cotton ) (100.cons)..

10.- Croation of a Hechanical Industry with branches over the whole territory for the manufacture of agricultural tools and spare parts for all kinda machines.

11.- Plant for the manufacture of low cost electric rango and of all olectric accessories.

12.- Plant for the Production of Organic Fertilizer.

13.- Aasombling Industries to work for Export.,

14.- Sisal, Fruits sugar Cane Straw Processing Plants.

15.- Bottle manufacture.

16.- Bafety match factory.

17.- Paper Mill.

18.- Jattle huiring Industry to intensify the development of our live-stock.

19.- Fishing Industry.

20.- Tourism.

In propuring our plan, we will not underos tuate the that the transportation, and communiontion dotornine at all their ataon the rhythm and the trond of the omoio volomon, Thoroform all have to bo von dito consideration the impo vement and extension of our roud and rail notioch in order to enlarge the rural market. Only through good roads and suffiolent and 10-cost transportation menna shall the Agricultural products reach the mansumers at moderate risus. This will antibute townda melut the alvir standard of the utire population. Also


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

- 8 -

shall be necessary proper communication means to ease the mobility of labor and attenuate to the price fluctuations. These facilities make it possible to decide on the geographic implantation of new industries and on the extent to be given to the development of various zones in line with the all our program.

These shall be considered:

a) The asphalting or cementing of all main roads; the stonning of all secondary roads, and the construction of new roads.

b) The construction of telephonies to join certain commodity-producing centers to urban centers.

c) Organization of an adequate railway system.

d) Nationalization of general transportation (transport en commun).

As for marine transportation, our country has not yet exploited its insular position and its geographic situation. Rather than developing normally, our coasting-vessel is jeopardy for lack of well equiped dry docks, also due to the insufficient technical preparation of our sailors. Yet, the marine way remains the cheapest in internal trade.

We shall consider the creation of a Navigation School, the acquisition of a merchant Marine for external trade, and we shall give such facilities as can facilitate the modernization of the coasting-vessels, the opening of new ports for external trades; the construction of a modern and free port in Port-au-Prince to serve as warehousing for goods consigned to certain south-American countries, also the repair and modernization of our existing ports.

In the field of air-transportation, these shall be created a national airline to link Port-au-Prince with foreign cities. Shall also be created airports in the large towns of the republic.

It is obvious that the success of this program which calls for disbursements amounting to around one billion five hundred millions dollars ($1.500.000.000.-) over 25 years, shall depend largely upon the competence of all engaged in the Public Administration.

We shall also concentrate our efforts on the following points:

a) Complete autonomy to the Communes. The Council of Notables shall be re-established on new basis in both the Commune and the Village (rural section). Periodic Congress between the Mayors of a same Department and the different officers of this Department shall make possible the preparation of local programs of which the execution shall promote the general plan.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

-9-

b) Organization of the Administrative career which shall be free from political influence. A law shall fix the status of public officers;

c) Remodelling of our different codes to adapt them to the present economic and social conjuncture, and the adoption of each measures as can speed up legal decision;

d) Complete emancipation of women who shall be able to fill the same administrative and technical positions as men, inasmuch as they are qualified;

e) Technical assistance shall be requested from the following International Institutions: FAC, CEU, BIRD, FMI, and BID towards a complete remodelling of public administration, mainly for the adequate execution of the general plan.

f) Remodelling of National Education, for Education is basic for the success of all actions undertaken by the community. The remodelling of our universities and the new orientation to be given to our Primary, Secondary, Superior and Professional Schools shall be in line with the formation of our technicians and our Philosophic of Education;

These are, briefly, the various phases of the programs intended to change the social and economic structure of the country.

Ever since the conquest of his independence, the Haitian, to-date, has been sufferings morally as the result of an excessive discrimination; physically because of a criminal misunderstanding and a generalized corruption, so much so that the impression remains this corruption, has been made a political system.

A new concept is imperative to assure the normal distribution of the National riches. A new concept of which the conoration shall be accomplished by the sound portion of the country jointly with the specialized agencies of the United States Government.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# FRIDAY 24th August 1962

CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, a pioneer
by
EMMANUEL C.PAUL

If the competitive communities are so dynamic and impose by the rate of their cycle of evolution, it is because, to the end, their social struggles result into economic terms through the production of valuable men superior to their consumption.

Because we failed to draw up our balance-sheet at each epoch of our life, we do not seem to understand that we are arriving at inverse reports. Our bachvaraness is the result of this negative unbalance between the production and the consumption of our valuable men.

We should be concious of the urgency if not to change our method of struggling, at least to come up with superior principles susceptible of making our struggles less nocive and much more profitable to the community. On this point, the example offered by more advanced countries of which we are copying the bad sides can be of service to us. To decrease the rate of consumption of our valuable men in order to increase their production in the course of time is to learn to appreciate, then to utilise and to respect them. We shall, thereby, create the condition that will preserve and fecundate them.

We know, indeed, that it is extremely hard to come to this reasoning, it is much more difficult to adopt it as the motto of our collective behavior. We are only a few to grasp this thruth because this phase of our social competitions results into a mass of historic factors. The first effect of our internal divisions generated by colonialism and fed up, afterwards by the old regime of oppression was the creation, at the various levels of our societies of a complex of self destruction, that turned into a social cannibalism. In the production of this event where everyone, without undergoing in any way the influence of a mystic or of a superior principle, is moved while believing he is moving towards his rightful interest, one has the impression that the community is unable to find it was without the help of a trustee, hence the implicite or public acknowledgement of the superiority of the former boss.

These truths that are found in filigree thoughout the pages of modern and contingenary history of colonialism should rouse the Haitians' thought in orar that thay may endeavour to increase their national potentiallities and over appreciate and respect their social values.

.../..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

Of course in the political, military and intellectual domain we have had real stars. However, our economic and social history is rathor poor on a certain point of view. This means that very few are those who, in spite of numerous obstacles, have succeeded by notably increasing the national economy and improving the living condition of our people. Our understanding of the "Benevolent State" requires that this objective be its main job.

There have been numerous attempts, indeed. Comes to our memory Pantaléon Quilbaud, the tobacco king during the time of our youth, but at last! just fugitive attempts! If this is the case and of we really love this country we wish to be fully ours, our duty is to tie up the old man binding us, and meaning hatred, seanness, above all, envy. Then we will limit the consumption of our valuable sen.

Hot so long ago, we have written an article about Dr.Day when his laboratory was consumed by fire. We did it then because in our opinion, for tro generations, this nane stood as the sunbol of continsity for the community. In the same spirit, we would like to evoke a new name, another social value who deserves admiration. This name is Clonard Joseph CHARLES.

This emersion dates back from yesterday, and yet, he is already a pioneer. Dark, average in size. Quick yes under a boad forehead which is already graved by a prema- ture baldness. This is his phisical stature in brief. Still young, only 39 years of age. Clenard Joseph CHARLES was born in Gonaives in April 1923 and is proud of his peasant origin. It was in this town that he received bis primary and secundary educa- tien, at the "Frères de l'Instruction Chrétienne" and the "Lycée Geffrard" Schools. It was also in this Artibonite that he began the struggle for life, first as a rural teacher. His father's death in 1939 marked a stage in his life. He had to take over the heavy responsibility of meeting his family needs. Charles then proved to be a disciplined man and became successively craftsman, plantation supervisor, without giving up intellectual studies; he ventured in journalism as an amateur. As a progres- sivenind, he strongly believes in the value of effort. From one activity, he goes to another and is never discouraged by obstacles. He is a man who searches his way and is determined to find it. In 1947, be, was General Controller of the Banana Industry in the south and the year after, he was appointed General Agent for a Corporation. Hie numerous contacte gave him at this time sufficient business experience for his te undertake his own businase. In 1943, he settled se Manufacturer's Agent and dealt in import-Export. Zy dint of discipliro, ef úrnsaion and tenacity, the little raral


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

-3-

teacher of the year 1939 is already well know as an experienced businessman, and
his relations overseas are such that in 1953, he was appointed as a member of an
Econonio Mission sent to London by the Government. Ed did so well that one year la-
ter, he vas enousted by the Government with the mission of negociating a contrast
with the General Electric of Coventry for the improvement and extension of our tele-
communiostion system. In 1957, as a member of another mission, he took past in the
International Conference in Brussels. In the meantime, Clemard Joseph CHARLES devo-
ted himself to various commercial and industrial activities. His life is shared
between his office in the Capital City and numerous trips in the country where he
kept inquiring on possibilities of investment. Whenever you happen to meet him, he
speakes of new projects for the development of the country. His waiting-room is
always full of people either awaiting instructions for the countries, or agents,
also of other people asking for credit. Among his enterprises we note the Universal
Enterprise Co. (USACO) the National Deutsch Associates, The Cotton Industry in the
South and Charles-Kews & Co., without mensionning the branches of his store, All
These activities do not hinder an from representing the General Electpic Co., Ltd.
of London and the Siemens Sohukert Werke Co.

But the masterpiece of his life as a businessman was the creation in 1960 of
the Commercial Bank of Haiti, a project he had long been dreaming ofi His initiative
ranks him as a great Pioneer. The Commercial Bank of Haiti is the first private Hai-
tian Bank. When one reals that the National Bank was redeemed only in 1949 to beco-
ne property of the Haitian State, then one will realise the amount of daring throughs,
tenacity and broadness of view it took Clemard Joseph CHARLES in such a place to
materialise this creation that will have a part in the Roonomic History of our coun-
try. Clenard Joseph CHARLES is the image of a new type of businessaan we did not
know before. He broke up with the low customs of tradesmen, these brokers who find
themselves selfishly satisfied with profit margins which the accumulate in banks
abroad and who begin again the routine each year. The reason for the backvardness
of sur masass is that they do not have the support of an enterprising bourgeoisie
creating welfare opportunities. Charles believes that it should not be left to the
State alone the duty of promoting the economic development of the country. He i
vell avare of his alssion and he knows that he must give a hand to the less fortuna-
te enes to help thoir evolution. Therefore, this Commercial Bank that has met with
so sual succese in so short a time is the conter of multiple activities profitable
to many people with low pay. If we do not loose faith in this country and that ve
believe in its potentialition, then we believe that a Pioneer as Clemard Joseph
CHARLES ought to be better known in order to be better understood and encouraged.

.../..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

This is the reason for our writing this article. At the same time ve would like
to present to the youth a model of honesty, discipline and tenacity in a community
that so much lakes hese qualities.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

COE 3; 260.842

CLÉMARD JOSEPH CHARLES

PRÉSIDENT ET DIRECTEUR GÉNÉRAL
BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI
PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

COE 3.200.743
Attachment #10

396 Central Park West
NYC
Tel IN 5-5815


DR. LUDWIG SAINT-LOT.

À Port-au-Prince, Haïti, le 11 Septembre 1908.
Etudes classiques: Institution St. Louis de Gonzague,
Lycée Pétion et Lycée Partic.
Licencié en Droit, Avocat du Barreau de Port-au-Prince.
Docteur ès-lettres, honoris causa, de l'Université de Lybie (1957)

ENSEIGNEMENT. Professeur d'Enseignement primaire, Secondaire et Supérieur,
Professeur à la Faculté de Droit de Port-au-Prince, Haïti.
Professeur de Sociologie et d'Histoire du Droit,
Professeur de Droit à l'Académie Militaire d'Haïti,
Professeur d'Économie Politique et de Géographie Commerciale à l'Institut Commercial d'Haïti,
Doyen de la Faculté de Droit de Port-au-Prince (1946).

CARRIÈRE PUBLIQUE. Commissaire du Gouvernement près le Tribunal Civil de Port-au-Prince,
Juge au Tribunal Civil de Port-au-Prince,
Sénateur de la République (1946-1957)
Président du Sénat et de l'Assemblée Nationale (1957)
Secrétaire d'État de l'Éducation Nationale et de la Justice (1947)
Secrétaire d'État du Travail et de la Santé Publique (1950)

CARRIÈRE DIPLOMATIQUE. Membre de la Délégation d'Haïti à la Première Session de l'Assemblée Générale des Nations-Unies (1946) et à la Première Partie de la Deuxième Session de la dite Assemblée (1947).
Délégué Permanent aux Nations-Unies (1947)
Ambassadeur à Paris (1948)
Chef de la Délégation d'Haïti à la Troisième Session de l'Assemblée Générale des Nations-Unies, tenue à Paris en 1948,
Rapporteur de la Troisième Commission (Droits de l'Homme)
Chef de la Délégation d'Haïti à la Conférence Générale de l'UNESCO, tenue à Mexico en 1947,
Président de la Délégation d'Haïti à la Conférence Interparlementaire tenue à Helsinki (1955),
Délégué des Intellectuels Haïtiens au Premier Congrès de Culture des Intellectuels Noirs, tenu à Paris en 1956,
Chef de la Mission Permanente d'Haïti aux Nations-Unies (1957),
Observateur à la Conférence des États Indépendants d'Afrique (1958)
Ambassadeur d'Haïti en Éthiopie (1958)

DÉCORATIONS. Officier de l'Ordre de l'Éducation Nationale,
Officier de l'Ordre du Mérite Agricole,
Grand Officier de l'Ordre du Bénin Noir,
Grand Officier de l'Ordre Honneur et Mérite,
Grand Croix de l'Ordre de l'Indépendance de la Lybie,
Grand Croix de l'Ordre de l'Étoile de la République de Somalie,
Vice-Président de la Société Africaine de Culture.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# BANQUE
COMMERCIALE
D'HAÏTI

![photo of BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI building]

SOCIETE ANONYME DE BANQUE
AU CAPITAL AUTORISE DE UN MILLION DEUX CENT GINQUANTE MILLE GOURDES
FONDÉE EN 1960
MEMIAS DE: THE AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION
PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI

JANVIER 1993


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

![photo of Clemard Joseph Charles]

CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES
Président et Directeur Général


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

Bilan arrêté au 21 Janvier 1963

ACTIF

PASSIF ET CAPITAL

DISPONIBILITES: Gdes 262.640.30

EXIGIBILITES : Gdes 2.126.802.25

|                             |                 |
| --------------------------- | --------------- |
| Encaisse                    | Gdes 178.322.65 |
| Dépôts – Banques locales    | 31.858.40       |
| Chèques s/Banques locales   | 31.040.10       |
| Dépôts – Banques étrangères | 21.419.15       |

|                                         |                 |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------- |
| Dépôts. Comptes Courants                | Gdes 617.122.90 |
| " Comptes d'Epargne                     | 1.141.550.45    |
| " Compte Marginal                       | 12.937.55       |
| " Marginal Account garantie de de Prêts | 158.803.05      |
| " A Terme                               | 108.232.05      |
| " A l'ordre spécial                     | 3.195.20        |
| Divers créditeurs                       | 21.297.00       |
| Chiques de Direction                    | 3.017.40        |
| Chèques certifiés                       | 70.646.65       |

REALISABLES : Gdes 2.580.599.75

|                                                  |                 |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------------- |
| Souscripteurs                                    | Gdes 421.500.00 |
| Titres et Bons du Trésor du Gouvernement Haïtien | 197.950.00      |
| Bons à Présentation (Warrant et Divers)          | 579.080.05      |
| Prêts, Escomptes et Autres                       | 1.219.841.70    |
| Prêts hypothécaires                              | 151.606.75      |
| Divers débiteurs                                 | 10.621.25       |

RESERVES ET AMORTISSEMENT: Gdes 10.938.65

|                                                   |          |
| ------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| Provisions pr. int. à payer s/dépôts à Terme Gdes | 6.679.90 |
| Provisions pour divers                            | 92.10    |
| Réserves pour dépréciation                        | 4.168.65 |

IMMOBILISES : Gdes 87.882.10

|                      |                |
| -------------------- | -------------- |
| Matériel et Mobilier | Gdes 72.057.10 |
| Véhicules            | 24.750.00      |
| Cautionnement        | 1.075.00       |

VALEUR A REGULARISER : Gdes 14.010.55

|                             |                |
| --------------------------- | -------------- |
| Escomptes perçus non acquis | Gdes 14.010.55 |

INTANGIBLES : Gdes 347.870.75

|                                |                |
| ------------------------------ | -------------- |
| Frais de constitution          | Gdes 25.666.35 |
| Frais de premier établissement | 322.204.40     |

CAPITAL AUTORISE : Gdes 1.250.000.00

PROFITS A CE JOUR: Gdes 14.267.25

VALEUR A REGULARISER : Gdes 187.025.80

|                              |                |
| ---------------------------- | -------------- |
| Intérêts acquis non pergus   | Gdes 37.162.25 |
| Frais à régler               | 89.566.95      |
| Manques et Surplus de caisse | 296.60         |

PARTS DE FONDATEURS : Pour mémoire

TOTAL ACTIF: Gdes 3.416.018.70

TOTAL PASSIF ET CAPITAL: Gdes 3.416.018.70

ADRIEN LAURENCEAU: CHEF DE LA COMPTABILITS

CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES: PRESIDENT BY OBROTEUR GENZAL

L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# CONSEIL TECHNIQUE

Dr. Lebert JEAN-PIERRE : *Ancien Membre du Conseil d'Administration* de la B. N. R. H. - 1960-1961

St. Louis JEANTY : *Ancien Directeur Général des Contributions* 1947-1950

J. Remusat THEBAUD : *Ancien Directeur de la B. N. R. H.* 1912-1958

Moïse E. CADET : *Ancien employé de la B..N. R. H.* 1946-1949

Nelson GELIN : *Ancien employé de la B. N. R. H.* 1949-1957

# CORRESPONDANTS ETRANGERS

IRVING TRUST COMPANY : New-York

EMPIRE TRUST COMPANY : New-York

PAN AMERICAN BANK OF MIAMI : Miami

MANUFACTURERS HANOVER TRUST COMPANY : New-York

THE AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY Inc. : New-York

AMERICAN TRUST COMPANY : New-York

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF BOSTON : Boston, Massachusetts

MIDLAND BANK LIMITED : London, Angleterre

CREDIT LYONNAIS : Paris, France


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

Exécute toutes opérations de Banque en Haïti et à l'Etranger :

NOTAMMENT :

Crédits Commerciaux et Lettres de Crédit

Chèques de Voyage

Dépôts à vue (Compte Courant)

Dépôts à Terme

Conipte d'Epargne

Effets de commerce

Hypothèques

Ouverture de crédit à l'Importation et à la Production

Achats et Ventes de change (chèques et transferts)

Warrant, etc. etc.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SYLVANIA
LIGHTING PRODUCTS.USA

Le plus grand choix
d'ampoutes, de Tubes
Luminescents-(toutes couleurs).

La Marque de confiance et de Durée...

Distributeur:
DON MOHR SALES CORPORATION S.A.

SOF 5,260,843

Le Nouvelliste
HEHBRE DE L'ASSOCIATION INT

No. 25.627 QUOTIDIEN LE PLUS ANCIEN D'HAITI -PONDE EN 1896 67EME ANNEE Direct.

# Figure de Pionnier:
Clémard Joseph Charles

## Brillante réception à l'Ambassade Américaine

Par Emmanuel C. PAUL

Si les sociétés compétitives sont tellement dynamiques et aimposent par la rapidité de leur cycle d'évolution, c'est parce qu'au fond les luttes sociales qui s'y livrent se woldent en termes évuna-miques par une production de valeurs supérieuren à la consommation.

Nous autres, pour ne nous ître pas souciés de faire, à chaque époque notre bilan, nous n'avons pas l'air de nous rendre compte que nous aboutissons à des rapports inversos. Notre retard est dû à ce déséquilibre négatif entro la production et la consommation de nos Valcurs. Nous en somines tous responsables.

Il nous faut être conscients de la nécessité sinon de changer la forme de nos luttes, du moins d'y introduire des principes sürieurs susceptibles de les rendre moins nocives et plus profitables à la collectivité. Sur co point, l'exemple d'autres pays plus avancés dont nous imitons les mauvais côtés peut nous servir. Ralentir le rythme de la consomiation de nos Valeurs pour en augmenter in production dans te temps, c'est en effet apprendre comme ailleurs à les apprécier, à les utiliser, à les respecter. Du coup, nous aurons créé des conditions à leur conservation à lour fécondation.

Nous savons certes, qu'il est extrêmement difficile d'arriver à ces raisonnements, voire d'en fuir re la mobile de comportements Kollectifs. On est une minorité à saisir cette vérité parce qu'un tel aspect de nas compétitions sucialos résulte d'un ensemble de facteurs historiquan. Lor divisions Internes de tous ordres secrétées par le colonialisme at approfondies ar is suite anns l'influence des denuolien to l'ansion régima d'oppression ont pour promter et..

de répondre aux besoins de la fa mille. Charles fait alors preuve de discipline et devient tour à tour artisan, superviseur de plantation, sans négliger le commerce des choses intellectuelles en faisant du journalisme amateur. Esprit progressiste, il croit ardemment en la valeur de l'effort. 11 passe d'une activité à une autre et ne se laisse jamais décourager par les obstacles. C'est un homme qui cherche sa voie et est déterminé à la trouver. En 1947, nous le voyons comme Contrôleur Général de l'Industrie bananière dans le Sud et l'année suivante comme Agent Général d'une Compagnie. Ses divers contacts lui donnent déjà assez d'expériences en affaires pour lui permettre d'entreprendre son propre «business». Il s'etablit en 1940 comme Représentant de Manufactures et fait le commerce d'importation et d'exportation, Le petit instituteur rural des environs de 1930 à force de discipline, de dynamisme, de ténacité, est déjà asses connu par ses expériences en affaires et ses relations à l'Etranger pour qu'en 1953, il soit choisi comme Membre d'une Mission Economique du gouvernement à Londres. I! s'y est si bien tirá qua c'est lui qui, une année plus tard, recuto re pou in gouvernement un con trat aver la General Electric de Conventry pour la modernisation et l'extonsion de notre ayatenia de Télécommunication. En 1957, il se volt envové dans une autre Mission à la Conférence Internationale de Bruxelles. Entre temps, Clémard Joseph Charles s'adonne à de multiples activités commerciales et Industrielles SA

(voir suite page 4)

La réception qu'ont offerte hier soir en leur résidence à Bourdon, l'Ambassadeur des Etats Unis et Mme Thurston a connu un très grand succès. Elle avait été organisée en l'honneur du nouveau conseiller de l'Ambassade américaine et de Mme Edward Glion Curtis Jr.

De nombreuses personnalités a i Port-au-Prince, le 23 Août 1913. Après avoir quitté Haiti en 1944, M. Curtis Jr. se rendit à Madrid (Espagne) en qualité de Second Secrétaire d'Ambassade et Vice Consul (1944-1947).

Il fut nommé par la suite Consul et 2ème Secrétaire à La Haye. En 1950, il occupa les fonctions d'officier économique celles de Consul à Zonich (Seis tion de l'Ambassadeur et de Mme se) de 1950 à 1951. Nommé ler Thurston. Ce furent deux hou res magnifiques. Les amphitryons, dont l'amabilité est connue, comblèrent leurs invités d'attentions.

On eut l'occasion de prendre contact, de causer avec le nouveau Conseiifer de l'Ambassade américaine dont nous prenons plaisir à publier le curriculum vitne:

***

BIOGRAPHIE DE M. E G. CURTIS JR.

Né à St Louis (Missouri), le 8 septembre 1909. Mr. Edward Glion Curtis Jr., Ler Secrétaire et Ministre Conseiller de l'Ambassade des Etats Unis en fluiti, ext un officier de carrière du Service Diplomatique.

Après avoir obtenu sa Licence en Lettres a l'Université de Washington, il reçut son diplôme i l'Institut Cesare Alfieri Florence (Italie). C'est en 1036 qu'il fit son entrée dans le Service Diplomaticus. Le premier pou qu'il occupa fut celui de vice-Con-sul à Budepest. (Hongrie), das 1935 A 1938, a de se rendre à Wollierton, en Nouvelle Zélan do.

Nummé lente. Secrétaire de Légation à Port-au-Prince (Haii ti), le 24 Avril 1940, M. Edward Gilon Curtis Jr. devait desuper co. posto jusqu'en 1048. !! fut pronais 2ème Hecrétaire de Légation

Secrétaire et Consul à Panama, M. Curtis Jr. séjourne à Managua comme Conseiller (1953-37), avant d'être assigné nu poste d'officier en charge de la Securité Inter américaine et d'Assistant aux Affaires du Département d'Etat, le 28 juillet 1957.

M. Edward Glion. Curtis Jr. est marié et il a quatre enfants.

## Le Vatican et le cas Sherry Finkbine

CITE DU VATICAN - AFP L Il était un homme vivant et innocent, on l'a tué on a commis un crime, a déclaró la presse du Vatican en commentant le cas d'avortement de la nord américaine Sherry Finkbine,

Après avoir critiqué le cas da la more qui se fait opérer phonr ne pas donner naissance A un an Difant déforiné, la radio du Vatican déclaro que embina les main-loa désirent vivres La féllelte eat un fait intérieur. Un meerem de l'esprit quo perronno, non una mère ne pout imposer de l'uxteriour. Ce n'est pas un privilega de riche, ni de Jounes, ni do forte de personnes enines. Coux qui st curayé de Justifier is eas rin Finkbine ignorent ce que c'est que l'amour, to le sungut de la la ١٥١١٠٠٠ la fondement de la vrate grandeur humaines, ajoute in Pros du Vatican.

Los puissances


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# 14-00000

truction se t
ritable cannilme .. Dans
la production de ce pumème,
où chacun sana sabır nullement
l'influence d'ape mystique ou d'un
principe supeneur, cet ari tout
en croyant agir dans le sens de
ses intérêts les plus légitimes, on
a l'impressión que la Tominunau
tê ne peut se frayer sa voie sans
un tuteur, d'où la reccanaissance
Implicite ou avoué de 'n supério
rité de l'ancien pation.

Ces vérités qu'on 'on trouve en fi
ligranimé à travers les pages de
l'histoire moderne et contemporai
ne du colonialisme, devraient
citer des réflexions chez les hai
tlens pour qu'ils s'efforcent d'aug
menter les potentialités nationa-
les et se dépasser dans 'apprécia
tion et le respect de leurs Valaurs
sociales.

Si dans le domaine politique,
militaire, intellectuel, nous avons
compté des étoiles, notre histoire
économico sociale est bien pau
vre en un certain sens.

On veut dire que l'on trouve
très peu de gens qui, en dépit
des obstacles, set arrivés à fai
re époque, en augmentant de fa
con notable la richesse nationale,
en améliorant les conditions de
vie de notre peuple. Notre repré-
sentation de l'Etat Bienfaisan--
co veut que cet objectif soit son
job principal.

Nous avons certes, bien noté
des tentatives et nous son-
geons à un Pantaléor. Guilbaud,
le roi du tabac du temps de no-.
tre enfance - mais seulement
des tentatives sans lendemain, hé
las! Nous pensons que s'il en
est ainsi que si nous aimons sin
cèrement ce pays que nous vou-
drions étre globalement nôtre, il
nous faut ligoter en nous le vieil
homme ce condensé de haine,
de petittesse, de haine,
et surtout d'envie et limiter la
consommation de nos Valeurs de
cet ordre.

Il n'y a pas longtemps, nous
avons consacré une page au Doc
teur DAY, à l'occasion de l'incen
die d'un Laboratoire, parcequ'à
notre sens, à travers deux géné
rations, nous avons trouvé en ce
nom un symbole de continuité
dans le travail, une Valeur so-
'ciale positive, enrichissante pour
la communauté. Dans le même es
prit nous voudrions évoquer ict
un nouveau nom, une autre Va-
leur sociale qui mérite l'admira-
tion. Nous citons Clémard Jo-
soph CHARLES.

Iwerns Regiments. Compdaill. Conses D'janne. Serenade.

_Dedia_
_lin ali prow_
_Pétion Gé-P-T_

Par Constantin DUMERVE

pron aimable confrere
Lucien Montos, redacteur ."
Chef da Quotidien Le Nourethate

Haiti devee Nation ler
Janvier 1804-le le premier soin soin
des dirigeants furile promouvoir
l'escor du nouve' Etat. Les Arts
ne furent pas négligés. L'Armée
trouva diuis la Musique un stimu
lant pour appuyer ses manifesta-
tions pacifiques ou guerrier

Les régiments étaient répartis
ainsi :

ler Port-au-Prince, 2ème Cap
Haitien, Jeme Port-au-Prince, le
Petite Rivière de l'Artibonite, be
Dondon, Gome St Michel de l'At-
talaye, 7e et Sème St Mare, Demo
Port de l'uix, 10ème Mirebalute.
11 et 12èmes Port-au-Prince, 13-
Les Cayes, 14ème Gonaives, ibe
Aquin, lie. Anse à Veau, 17ème
Les Cayen, 18ème Jérémie, 19ème
Anse d'Ilainnult, 20ème Verrot
tes, 21ème Leogame, 22ème et
23ème Jnemel, 24ème Petit God-
ve, 2home Gonaives, 20ème Hor
gue, 27ème Grande Riviere du
Nord, 280me Trou du Nord, 200
Fort Liberto, 30ème Cap Haitien,
Bleme Lascahobas, 32ème Mole
St Nicolas, 33ème Aux Coteaux,
340me Limbé, 36ème Vallières,
36ème Hinche, 37ème Plaisance
32ème Saltrou.

Ces régiments, annuellement,
tenaient parnison six niois à la
Capitale. Co séjour permettait
aux soldats de compléter leur for
mation militaire et les musicions
attachés aux régiments de int
tier à la théorie et à la pratique
sous la direction d'instructeurs
spéciaux.

Son émersion est d'hier et pour
tant c'est déjà une figure de
Plonnier, Noir, taille et corpulen
ce moyenne. Des yeux vifs sous
un front large quo ronge déjà u-
ne calvitie précoce. Voilà, en
deux traits, l'homme au physique.
Encore jeune: 10 ans seulement..
Chimard Joseph Charles qui est
né aux Gonsives en avril 1923
est fler de 43 cclgina paysanne,
Clest dans mite régica qu'll
fait ses findes primairen et se-
condaires à l'Ecole des Frères de
Praatruction Chrétienne et au Ly
cie Jeffraro. C'est ausel dati
gotto Artibonite qu'il a commencé
la bataille de la vin d'abord com
me instituteur rural. La mort
de son père survenue on 1989

Les Butterles Sonores grou-
paient les bruyants tambours, les
clairons au timbre éclatant, les
fibres aux offets ingénieux. Leur
jeu d'ensemblo déterminalt un
programmune compliqué selon occa
sion et leur rythme varió d'une
technique parfois endlublés
multipialt sans perdre, haloine.

Vors quelle époque ant paru
ces manifestations musicales dé-
nommées Coup d'Jaille (non cou
56
dialles), Casser d'Janno, (diave)
(espagnole diana), les Béréna.
des?

Aux promiers jours de l'Indé-
pendance.

Le 30 Octobre 1804 lors de la
cérémonio du Sacre de l'Empe-
rour Donsulines, les Coup d'jalli
s'emparant du pays, le pouple ne
put contenir son allégresse.

En 1906, un coup d'all! de 400
litaires, lo premier anniversaire
de l'Indépendance connai un do
cint dont le souvenir ne s'etface
ra Jamnis.

CANSER D'JANNE 1. (Diane),
not institué pour stimuler to ro
voi don soldats au point du jour
lon quatre heures du matti, lus
Hattorin Honors tenidos por
ton militairen (Fort Nationi, Bu
arreaux arrondissement, in Place,
Fort ute) fendatent l'air. Le Luis
matte conducteur inoculó, trans.
forme mille manières, suivant
les porptios de l'action, chan-
geait d'expression ou de sens.

A ces mélodies vivan es, de cou
Lur locale, l'esprit haitien adap-
ta d'un souffle admirable, paro
les que tout le monde enthousias-
me, chautait avec une bonne nu-
meur communicative. Nous en dé
tachons parmi les quatorze for-
mant de Casser d'jarne les cou
plets suivants :

Toutt moun lévé, lévé, lévé, ἱε
vé, lévé,
Soldata ! livé, lévé, lévé, lévé,
lévé,
Si nous pus lévé,
Ya mété'n lan Salle police,
Si nous pas lévé
Ya mete'n lan Salle police.

-11-

Si té gain l'agent
Nounout nou geus bouillon,
Général si nous gain l'agent
N'a fait gnoy gros bouillon

-111-

Pour se faire distinguer, la
Batterie de chaque régiment se
signalait par le numéro d'ordre.
Par exemple, celle de ma ville na
taie Môle St Nicolas (32ème) tai
sait ćelater :

Trentt déxième pas gangnin
imanman (bis)
Trentt déxième pa gangnin papa
Toutt ti qui choille
Có trentt déxième
Toutt gran qui choille
Cé trentt déxième

-IV-

Maintenant, tour de la Mérin-
gue. Du copieux catalogue nous
extrayons la mélodie et paroles
suivantes parues sous Tuesias :
Zouzoutt,
(bis
Gudó Thómo,
Thomo it, piti, piti con ça
Fait bota sousoutt tout dou
boutt.

Voiri en quelle circonstance ce
Chanté a sto trouvé. Commissais
Zouzoutt chef de la police, gran
gabari, arrogant, ventru se tenait
au Bureau Contral (actuellement
Centro de Santé près de la Cathé
drole).

Commissals Thómo, sous Chef
de la police sympathique, court
de taille, mince en un mot Ti-
corps répondait au service du bu
reau.

Un jour à in suite d'une vivo
altercation, Commissais sougoutt,
s'oubliant, administra trois coups
de comenaquatt à Thomo. Celul
dont le souvenir ne s'etface
line façon notre sysic
cres taliguidées.s
son tour ronfia une dégolée en
rogie A. Kouxoust qui, ne pouvant
plus tonir, quetta. L'incident fit
sensation. La chanson s'en ampa
ra.

Balt-on que pou de jours après,
los doux coconiaquateurs se ren-
contraient Journellement chos Ro
se Pinpin au whart shorh (Cité.
(Seite, page 4)
# WASHINGTON

Les Etats Unis
Grande Bretagne remettront
bablement avant la tin de
semaje kure notes au Gom
ment Sovietique à propos de
lin. Dans cette note, les trois
sances occidentales, reiteré
lours positions respectives à
gard de la décisior unitatérai
PURSS d'abolir son Comme
ment militaire à Berlin Est.

# Prêts de l'AID
# à un syndicat

WASHINGTON - AFP
L'agence pour le Dévelo
ment International a octroye
prêt de 400.000 dollars su sy
cat de la Compagnie de Che
de Fer du Honduras pour la
truction de logements.

# Incidents entre
# cubains à Kingsto

KINGSTON (AFP),
Une fois de plus on a eru
tré hier des incidents aver l
légation cubaine à Kingston.
cident ie plus grave a ét
gistré au marché. «Victori
où il y eut bagarre entre
bains de la délégation et I
lés résidant à la Jamaique.

D'après une version, les fi
tes ont attaqué les exliés d't
une autre c'est le contraire
est dit. Il n'y a aucun rappo
ficiel à ce sujet.

Depuis la police jamaica
pris des mesures spéctales d
caution.

Maintenant, tour de la Mérin- **Le système de fus**
**Des USA est**
**invulnérable.**

WASHINGTON - AFI
Le Ministre de la Défer
Namara a affirmé que le s
de fusées télé - guidées des
Unis est einvulnérables
peut être détruit par l'Uni
Interrogé par les jourr
su sujet de la possibilité
méricaines davant meme
Russie de détruire les fui
ne soient lancées de leurs
le Secrétaire d'Etat V
déclaré: «Il ell n'existo pue
sibilité immédiate pour !
Soviétique de sorganiser
vert de Mme
Maurice Castera

Mudamo Maurico Caste
Lucio Tanerede Augusto
Aout 1962 1 son Ame à Dieu lo mars
7 hrea so
Nos sincères condolent
son époux. M. Maurice
ainal qu'aux autres pare
Gruellement éprouvός.s


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# Institut des Hautes Etudes Commerciales de Port-au-Pce signe un Accord

Des nouvelles qui nous parviennent, il semble qu'un accord est intervenu entre l'Ecole des Hautes Etudes Commerciales (HEC) Montréal que dirige - Monsieur Roger Charbonneau et l'Institut des Hautes Etudes Commerciales et Economiques (IHECE) Port-au-Prince, dirigé par Messieurs Gérard R. Latortue et Yang Alcindor.

C'est grâce au dévouement de notre compatriote le Docteur Veleroy, professeur de Sciences Economiques à l'Ecole des H. E. de Montréal que Gérard R. Latortue a pu prendre contact avec Messieurs R. Charbonneau Directeur des H. E. C. et Francis Albert Angers Directeur de l'Institut d'Economie Appliquée, Ecole des H. E. C. Montréal.

Nous sommes ea mesure d'enseigner nos lecteurs sur les points importants de cet accord. 1- H. E. C. se fera un plaisir d'envoyer à IHECE de Port-au-Prince tous les livres à caractère économique et commercial au No. 139 de la Rue Pavée.

Nul doute qu'un, tel accord facilitera le développement des échanges commerciaux culture's et économiques avec le Canada et qu'un plus grand nombre de nos compatriotes, s'intéresseront davantage à l'Institut des Hautes études Com. et Economiques qui répondait à une nécessité dans notre milieu.

Monsieur et Mme Otto Ed. Thur, professeurs de Sciences Economiques à Montréal et à l'Université Laval ont grandement encouragé les initiatives de l'institut des Hautes Commerciales et Economiques. Ils seraient prêts dès Mai prochain à venir prononcer quelques conférences surtout sur l'épineuse question de la «Stabilisation des prix des matières premières. Monsieur THUR s'intéresse particulièrement au problème des fluctuations économiques.

qu'elle a en double. Des instructions seront passées au Directeur de la Bibliothèque Mr. Ulen dans ce sens.

H. E. C. envoie à IHECE toutes les revues et une cople des cours BHEC.

MECE. devra également envoyer à Montréal une copic des différents cours - ceux qui sont polygraphiés des profes

EC. va faire démarcher auprès du Ministères des Affaires Culturelles pour établir a-PICE un programme d'échange de professeurs et peut-adme d'étudiants.

. est prête à faciliter le séjour au Canada d'hommes d'affaires haïtiens que 'NHECE lui renderaft, charge bien en-pour THECK de faciliter Je séjour en Haiti d'hom d'affaires canadiens qui se intéressée à avoir des relations en Haiti.

En outre l'Institut d'Economie Appliquée publie une revue «L'Actualits Economiques» son Directeur de cet Institut Mr. Abort Angers est prêt à publier des artielas de professeurs de l'I fate haition que PIECE tion général de tout é-amanderait. L'THECE Re correspondant de la revue revue au Prince vo elle sera nden yar la Llorairie Athénée

# FIGURE DEPIONNIER

(Suite)

vie se partage entre ses bureaux à la Capitale et de multiples voyages à l'intérieur du pays où il enquête sans cesse sur les possibilités d'investissement. A chacune de nos rencontres, il nous parle de projets nouveaux qu'il a pour contribuer au développement du pays. Sa salle d'attente est toujours remplie de gens venus prendre des instructions pour la Province, d'intermédiaires, de solliciteurs de crédits. Parmi les Entreprises qu'il dirige, nous notons La Universal Enterprise Co. (USACO) la National Deutsch Associates, la Cocon Industry in the South et Mews Charles et Co sans comoter des Succursales de sa Maison de Commerce. Cela ne l'empêche pas de représenter la General Electric Co.Ltd. de Londres et la Siemens Schuckert Werke Co.

Mais le chef d'oeuvre de la vie d'homme d'affaires de Clemard Joseph Charles, c'est la création en 1960 de la Banque Commerciale d'Haiti dont il a longtemps ea ressé le projet. C'est cette ini
tiative qui fait de lui un Grand.

Plonnier. La Banque Commerciale est la première banque privée haïtienne. Si l'on s'imagine one même la Banque Nationale n'a été rachetée qu'en 1949 pour devenir propriété de l'Etat Haitien, on s'imagine ce qu'il a fallu à Clémard Joseph Charles dans un milieu comme le nôtre, de hardies 'se de pensée, d'audace, de ténacité et de largeur de vue pour arriver à une telle création, laquelle fera époque dans l'histoire économique de notre pays. Cléonard Charles nous donne l'image d'un nouveau type d'hommes d'affaires que nous ne connaissions pas avant-lui. Il a divorcé d'avec ces usages sans grandeur de commerçants courtiers à la petite semaine qui se contontent exuis
qu'ils accumulent à l'Etranger tement d'une marge de profits ot qui recommencent la routine chaque année. Si nos masses restent ai arriérées c'est parce qu'elles ne sont pas encadrées par une bourgeoisie. entreprenante, créatrice d'opportunités de bien-être. Charles pense qu'il ne faut pas laisser à l'Etat tout seul la tâche de promouvoir le développement économique du pays. Il est conscient de sa mission sociale et sait qu'il doit donner la main aux moins munis pour les faire montor. Aussi cotto Banque Commerciale qui a connu dans le pubilo un suecds ai étonnant on un court taps do temps est alle conque comme le centre de rayonnement de multiples activités dont tireront profit de millera de gerne projets à l'itudo, loraqu'lls seront réalisés, feront de cette initiatives une véritable institution nationale.

Al nous ne désespérons pas do voir fleurir de l'lanter comme en
vitait d'être mieux connue afin d'être compriss et encouragée. C'est pouround nous avons derit cot article. Nous voudriona on même temps avoir propose à la fotonaulte à Bogota.
# LA SITUATION A BERLIN

## Folicier tué à Berlin

BERLIN - AFP

Un membre de la police de transport en uniforme de la R. D. U. a été tué cette nuit par la police de Berlin. Est, au moment où il essayait de traverser le mur.

xxx

## A propos de Berlin

WASHINGTON - AFP

Les Etats Unis contmueront à considerer (l'Union Sovtétique comme responsable du secteur Soviétique à Berlin. Les gouvernements des Etats Unis du Royaume Uni et de France continueront d'exercer pleinement leurs droits et d'assumer leurs responsabilités à Berlin, ajoute une déclaration publiée cette nuit par le Département d'Etat.

Et aucune mesure ünilatérale du gouvernement soviétique ne peut affecter l'unité de Berlin dans son ensemble conclut-il.

# Jean 23 et Pie 9

CITE DUVATICAN - AFP

Pia IX scra-t- béatifié au cours du prochain Concile osucumenique? Le Pape Jean 23 a confié aujourd'hui au cours d'une audience générale accordée à Castelgondolfo que son voeu le plus cher est de voir que le Seigneur lui accorde la grâce de décréter los honneurs de l'autel à celui qui a convoqué le premier Concile du Vatican. En parlant de la fête du Coeur Immaculée de Mario que l'église céióbrait ce jour, le Pape a dit que trois pontific svinient distitikués par leur devotion à in Vierge, Pie Viil qui linaugura le culto de Mario, Pie IX qui a proclamé le dogmi XII qul a consacré le genre humain au Coour Immaculée de Marie Jean Insulate nur les mérites do Pio IX ot a dit que beaucoup ont comparé ce pape ve fule l'homme to plus chéri at la plus hal par ses contemporaine.

# TOI

LE GOUVERNEUR C. POLETTI ET SA FN AMERIQUE LAI

Hier après midi, codemnt annoncé, let Charles Poletti et sa épouse Jean Ellis sont la capitale, accompagna George H. Bennett. I accueillis à l'aéroport lentin Edward Blacqu Commercial à l'Ambass tats Unis à Port au sa charmante femme l par M. Me Elhannon, In Pan American.

Le gouvernuer Pols à la boutonnière la Commandeur avec Etoidre de St. Grégoire le ne distinction, du Pape plus haut rang jamais un laique pour les res services rendus comme ur militaire allié en rant la guerre. Le visdent des Affaires Intles de la prochaine Foi le de New York répon un français impeccable haits de bienvenue qui té adressés. Avenant, gouverneur Poletti auenveloppant d'un parfum du monde. On comprentson don de persuasion sons qui ont porté les teurs de la Foire à le da la mission délicate de adhésions des pays du cette grande manifeste diale de la Palz.

Gouverneur Poletti visiter la Jamaique, nou année à l'indépendance, à nifestation. Il s'est ent avec le Chef de la nouve blique, Monsieur. Bunet avec les Ministres des et du Commerce, avee dent de la Chambre de dustrial Development tion, M. Braham nourquer l'objectif de cette

Il était eccompagné ces réunions du Dr. Ge Bennett, Docteur en Phel'un de ses huit Assistas Ich le vice présides
Foire mondinie a prie hier avec le Secrétaira Tourisme, M. Victor Ne il s'est entretenu co mlala Secrétaire d'Etat du ce, M. Clovis Désinoravec le Ministre de M. Herve Boyer. Demalune conversation avesdent de la Chambre de re, M. Louis Décatrel, conference de presse roulera au local de cettantion.

C'est l'ingénieur Harmhauer qui a sto charge dea piana (1) Foire de Now York da- Gouverneurquite 57688 Halti Samedi pour sentent Arusenieiis quicomment visité l'aire de tion & Plushing Mondon 11 deur dire Etats Thurs ente xin da na Commo at temtournée dans l'Amériquepour une vlaitu à Caune Noua aouhaitons indlale bienvenue au Godof Mine Charles Ilatti

![photo of a magic cine advertising] Magic Cine
ANCHE A 6 hros, 7 hres et 9 hres Vendradi. Hamedi,

![photo of a advertisement of L'EPDSE UN HORS LA LOI] EPDUSE UN HORS LA LOI -Harry Rullivan, Marjorie, Jave


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# MR. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARI-35

President & General Manager, Banque Commerciale d'Haiti, Port-au-Prince.

## Life Story

Born at Gonaives, Haiti, on April 21, 1923, of peasant parents; went to Parochial School; in 1939 graduated from Lycée Geffrard, Gonaives; taught in rural schools; in addition, father having died in 1939, did various jobs to support his family; upholsterer, time-keeper, plantation supervisor, free lance journalist, eto.

In 1947, appointed Controler General of Haytian Southern Banana Industry; became General Agent in 1948.

In 1949 established himself as Manufacturers' Representative and created his own export and import business.

In 1953 went to London as Member of the Economic Mission of the Haytian Government, and in 1954 negotiated on the Haytian Government's behalf a contract with the General Electric Co.Ltd., of Coventry, England for the modernising and extending of the telecommunication system in Haiti.

In 1957, appointed Member of the Haytian Mission to the International Conference held in Brussels, Belgium.

In 1960 created the Banque Commerciale d'Haiti.

Mr. Charles is the sole owner of the Banque Commerciale d'Haiti and the full or part owner of several industrial and commercial enterprises in Haiti, such as :

Universal Enterprises Co., S.A. (U.B.A.C.O.)
National Deutsch Associates, S.A. - Clemard Joseph Charles Import-Export
Cocoa Industry in the South - Clemard Joseph Charles & Co.
Keva Charles & Co.

He is the sole Representative in Haiti of the following concerns :

The General Electric Co.,Ltd., London, England
Siemens Schuckert Werke, Germany

## Bank References :

Banque Nationale de la Republique d'Haiti
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
The Royal Bank of Canada, New York
Irving Trust Company, New York

## Member of :

The Committee for the Rehabilitation of the Rural Sections of Haiti
The Haitian Chamber of Commerce
The International Club of Commerce, Haiti
Commerce & Industry Association of New York - Charter Member
Rotary Club, Port-au-Prince, Tennis Club of Port-au-Prince.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# Honors & Awards :

Knight of the National Order "Honor & Merit "
Officer of the Labor Order
Commander of the Civil Merit Order
Honorary Citizen of the City of New York - Honorary Citizen
Of the City of Long Beach, L.I.,N.Y.

Mr. Charles married his wife, Sophie, in 1952; they have one adopted son.

June 21, 1962


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

INDEX: YES ☑NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-357029 CLASSIFIED MESSAGF
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY S'G.

SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO
TOTAL COPIES 28

FROM
Rgalante
Dissem By z4

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION WH-8 ☑ RID COPY ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBEO
INFO FILE VR, EUR-8, CI, CI/OPS, FI, CA-2, wol/7/Ht

SECRET 202054Z CITE PORT AU PRINCE 3885
ABSTRACT
20 Juzz 66 1:.41197

DIRECTOR

1. COLONEL CLAUDE RAYMOND, DR. ROGER LAFONTANT, PORT AU PRINCE
   UNIVERSITY MILITIA LEADER, AND DUVALIER'S PRIVATE SECRETARY
   PIERRE BIAMBY APPLIED U.S. CONSULATE 17 JUNE FOR TRANSIT VISAS
   FOR SPECIAL MISSION TO LONDON. TRIO REQUESTED TWO WEEKS STAY
   U.S. GOING TO UK AND TWO WEEKS ON RETURN TRIP.

2. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES TRAVELLING AS INSPECTOR HAITIAN
   EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES REQUESTED SEPARATELY TRANSIT VISA FOR
   TRIP TO EUROPE.

BT
ECRET

SECRET

20 JUNGE
201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

UNCLASSIFIED CON DENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Ophonal)

FROM:
RID/CE

EXTENSION NO.
CSCI 316/02952-66

DATE
10 June 1966

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. CI STAFF 2C 35
   14 JUN 1966

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. RID/AN GA 50

6. 
7. RID/MIS

8. 
9. 
10. 
TO: DIM/FBI

11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. RID/FI 1B 4003

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER
201-357029

ENCLOSURE ABSTRACT

DOCUMENT DATE
16 JU 1966

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: CHARLES, Clemard
DOB: 21 April 1923
POB: Gonaives, Haiti
VISA: Haitian

16 JUN 1966

1. - Reference is made to the I-57 request form concerning Subject who entered the United States on 3 April 1966. The files of another Office of this Agency contain the following pertinent information regarding Subject more recent than that contained in EDCSDB-315/00977-64 dated 9 October 1964, subject: Inquiries Regarding the Possibility of Buying Aircraft for Haiti.

2. According to an unevaluated report dated 14 April 1966, from a United States national with forty years' experience in the tobacco industry who makes frequent trips to Latin America and who is considered a shrewd observer, which contained biographic information, concerning Subject, CHARLES was specifically referred to as President DUVALIER's banker and financial manager. Subject was regarded by Source as being "very close to the Palace" and as having ready access to DUVALIER. Source described Subject as a "crook and poor liar; in other words, truly a Haitian political character and not to be trusted under any conditions." Subject had mentioned to Source his activity in 1954 as a negotiator on behalf of the Haitian Government with the General Electric Company of England for modernization of Haiti's telecommunications system. As a result of this contract, Haiti experienced one of its greatest political scandals, for the contract was for 4 million dollars, and the actual delivery of products was only 1 million dollars. Source observed that CHARLES was president of the Haitian Banana Corporation which was originally operated by Eric TIMSIT and Colonal FROGER, and subsequently went bankrupt because of financial mismanagement. Further, Subject had headed the Essential Oils Company since the death of Senator Louis DEJOIE. Source was satisfied that those companies headed by Subject were actually owned and/or controlled for the benefit of DUVALIER. At the time of the report's CHARLES' principal assistant in the tobacco industry was Henry ABCLAIN, who.

FILE IN 201-357022

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
US COPY 201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# SECRET
NO FOREICH BISSEL

was director of the Haitian Tobacco Monopoly and secretary-treasurer of Le Tabac Eaition, S.A. SICLAIR was gmerally believed to be Subject's "batchet ma" "Cut Source was unable to verify this.

CSCI-316/02952-66

RID/CE: JMA/KG/mac

Based on: 00-B-324/06340-66

![Handwritten text reading 'FILE IN 201-1352.029' and a rubber stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration end Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital kiters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mather's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of lavestigation
Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

FILE NO. (if any)

DATE
4/11/66

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 101 (a) 15 (A) or 101 (a) 15 (6) of the Immigration and Dictionality Act.

NAME (Last, in CAPS)
CHARLES CIEMAO
NATIONALITY (Citizenship)
Haiti

UNITED STATES ADDRESS

AIRLING AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL

PERMANENT ADDRESS
Pacas Haiti

BIRTH DATE
4/1/23
BIRTH PLACE
GULAVIS

DATE AND MACE OF NOMISSON
IPKIC 4/3/66

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
A2 DIS (TS)

DESTINATION
As Agove

OTH any derogatory subversive information regarding this alion to the F. 8. 1.

Date 2 Thay to
INITIALS
HAiTi
Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control

4/23/66

FILE IN 201-357,029.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

FPI DOCUMENT

DATE: 24 APRIL 1966

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HAITI

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# SECRET

12 April 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: DCS/OSS

Attention: Mr. Husulin

SUBJECT: Contact with Clemard Charles

1. Pursuant to our telephone conversation on ? March, it is requested that your representative, in talking with Clemard Charles, obtain the latter's views on the following:

a. the economic and political stability of the Haitian Government for the next four months;

b. current threats to President Duvalier and origin of these threats;

c. ability of President Duvalier to control opposition from within or outside the country;

d. attitudes of Haitian business men in Port-au-Prince relative to the present government.

2. I would be very interested in any indication from Clemard Charles that he is anti-Duvalier or that Duvalier's tenure is limited.

Paul V. Harwood
C/WH/7

WW/7/Ut/WJGremillier:rae

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - 201-357029 file in FSR 4624

1 - Memo chrono

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 6 APRIL 1966

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HAITI

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

1. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# CONTROLLED DISSEM

8-1-U-8-E-8

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY: Haiti

REPORT NO: 00-E-34/N314-66

SUBJECT: Clénard Joseph Charles believed to be President Duvalier's Personal Financial Manager/Biographical Data on C J Charles

DATE DISTR:

NO PAGES: 5

REFERENCES:

DATE OF INFO: Feb - Mar 66

PLACE & DATE ACQ: Fort-au-Prince/Feb - Mar 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, sales representative of a US tobacco manufacturing company who has had 40 years' experience in the industry. Source makes frequent business trips to Latin America and recently returned from a six weeks' visit to Ecuador, Panama, and Haiti. He has excellent contacts in the areas he visits, speaks moderate Spanish and French, and is a shrewd observer.

1. During the period 1952-59 I tried to establish business association with certain Haitians including such characters as Eric Tippenhauer, Colonel M Prosper, Senator Louis De Joie, George Léger, and many others. On the occasion of my first visit to Port-au-Prince in five years, I encountered a new set of characters, but they are obviously of the identical "cut" as my previous acquaintances.

2. A reportedly privately-owned tobacco company known as Le Tabac Haitien, S. A. is directed by Clénard Joseph Charles, a black Haitian who also happens to be President of the Commercial Bank of Haiti. This cigarette manufacturing firm is the direct descendant of the long defunct Haitian-American Tobacco Co. Some six months ago Le Tabac Haitien began ordering moderate quantities of leaf tobacco and providing letters of credit to pay for the leaf. When I held my first series of conferences with Mr Charles, he immediately attempted to impress me with his political, social, and economic influence in Haiti and then proceeded to enlist my principal's financial participation to the small sum of US$300 thousand. Fully cognizant of the Haitian style of business, I deferred the offer and proceeded to discreetly inquire of Mr Charles' status in Haiti.

3. As a matter of convenience Mr Charles provided me with a curriculum vitae which I quote as follows:

CLÉNARD JOSEPH CHARLES: President & General Manager of the "BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI"

President of the CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF HAITI

S-INS

U-NO

S-Z-U-8-88

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically authorized by the originating agency, this information may be released to other departments and agencies of the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.
It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

2d-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

# CURRICULUN VITAE

Born in Gonaives, Haiti, on April 21, 1923, from a peasant family. Bad his pricary schooling at the 'Ecole des Freres des Gonaives,' and his secondary schooling at the 'Lycée Geffrard' in the same toun.

Upon his father's death, did various jobs to support his family. Was in turn schoolmaster at the rural school of Verrettes, at $15 a math, free lance teacher at $0.40 par north per child, time- keeper, plantation supervisor, photographer, sanitary clerk, free Lance journalist. In the latter capacity, founded 'L'Intrepide' and 'L'Aurore' in cooperation with the late Erasmiel C. Paul.

Phyto-Pathologist.

In 1946, ves appointed Controller General of the Banana Development Company (BADECO), of which he became the General Agent in 1948. The following year, established himself as Hamfacturer's Agent, and created an Import-Export trade house.

Married in 1952, Sophie Lherisson.

In 1953, vent to London as a Member of the Economic Mission sent to England by the Haitian Government, and in 1954, negotiated, on behalf of the Government, a contract with The General Electric Co., Ltd., Coventry, England. This contract vas in connection with the extension and modernization of the Telecomunication System in Haiti.

Da 1957, vas appointed as a member of the Economic Mission to the International Conference held in Brussels, Belgium.

Crented in 1960, the 'BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HARFI,' of which he is the President and Director General. Is also the President of the following firms he himself created:

Universal Enterprises Co. S.A. (USACO)
National Deutsch Associates, B.A. (Kennf Cultivation)
Mekcorp d'Eaiti, S.A.
Magéco Enterprises, 8.A.
Société Haitienne de Posur & Cuirs (Leather & Skins)
Le Tabac Haitien
Administration Portuaire de Port-au-Prince
Caribbean Cordage Kill
Corporation Fhilatélique d'Haiti
Bhada Division, Montrouis
Automobile Insurance Division - Third Party Liabilities
Les Essences Aromatique d'Haiti (Essential Oils)
Froduits Nationsux, S.A.
Assurance Vieillesse Obligatoire (OMA)
Estresa, 8.Α.
Société Chadral de intérieux de Constructions (BCGEMACO)
Bociété Nationale de Fruita et de Légumes (BOBAPRUCO)

Eo is the exalusive Agent for the following firms:

The General Electric Co., Ltd. of Coventry
Siemens Schuckertvarka A. O. Erlangen, Germany

President of the Chamber of Commerce of Haiti


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

E-E-C-R-E-T

-3-

Member of: Committee for the Rehabilitation of the Rural Sections of Haiti
Commerce & Industry Association of New York
Rotary Club of Port-au-Prince
Tennis Club of Port-au-Prince
Action for Latin American Unity, Mexico
Academia de Derecho International, Mexico

Awards & Distinctions:

Knight of the National Order 'Honor & Merit' (HAITI)
Officer of the Labor Order
Commander of the Civil Merit Order
Commander of the International Order for Public Welfare - France
Commander of the National Order for Agriculture. Merit
Commander of the Order 'Petion & Bolivar' - for services rendered to the cause of Pan Americanism
Honorary citizen of the City of Longbeach, L. I., New York
Honorary citizen of the City of New York
Honorary citizen of the City of Berlin
Medal of His Holiness Pope Paul-VI.

In addition Mr Charles made available two other papers that are likewise of interest. One is a list of correspondents for the Commercial Bank of Haiti and the second consists of enterprises controlled by that bank which were not included in the latest balance sheet. I quote these papers as follows:

BANKS - LIST OF CORRESPONDENTS

U. S. A.:

(1) Bank of America (International)
P. O. Box 3415
Rincon Annex, San Francisco 20, California

(2) First National City Bank
399 Park Avenue
New York, N. Y. 10022

(3) Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company
44 Wall Street
New York 15, N. Y.

(4) Irving Trust Company
One Wall Street
New York 15, N. Y.

(5) First National Bank of Boston
Boston 6, Mass.

(6) Pan American Bank of Miami
P. O. Box 831
Miami 30, Florida

FRANCE:

Credit Lyonnais
19 Boulevard des Italiens
Paris, France

SWITZERLAND:

(1) United Overseas Bank (Banque Unie pour les Pays d'Outre-Mer)
3-5 rue du Conseil Général
Geneva, Suisse

E-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

CONTROLLED DISSEM                                                                                   NO DISSEM ABROAD

S-E-C-R-E-T

(2) Union de Banques Suisses
8, Tue du Fhone
Geneve, Suisse

ENGLAND:
XIDLAND BANK LIMITED
(Overseas Branch)
P. 0. Box 831
60 Gracechurch Street
London, B. C. 3

EHTERPRISES CONTROLED BY DANÇUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

Hot Included in the Balance Sheet

(1) SHADA - St. Marc Division                                                                                             $ 500.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(2) PORT AUTHORITY - PORT-AU-PRINCE                                                                                 $ 600.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(3) THIRD PARTY LIABILITY - VEHICLE INSURANCE                                                              $ 1.000.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(4) ESSENTIAL OILS                                                                                                          $ 300.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(5) SEAFOOD - EXPLOITATION                                                                                             $ 250.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(6) MODERM TAΝΗΣΟΥ                                                                                                           $ 5.000.-
(Yearly Incone)

(7) PHILATELIC CORPORATION                                                                                              $ 300.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(8) KHERASA                                                                                                                    $ 150.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(9) U.S.A.C.O.                                                                                                                 $ 875.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(10) TOYOTA SALES DIVISION - C. J. Carten Dot-gort                                                               $ 150.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(211) BRAIN - LUNGER DIVISION                                                                                           $ 100.000.-
(Yearly Income)

(12) O... -MORIAMEN INGMARCE                                                                                           $ 2.000.000.-
(Yearly cinture Anca capected)

5. Since try previous commerciel acciations in Haiti dated prior to 1959, I found it extremely difficult to locate old acquaintances, for soos are dood or in voluntary mila. I did manage to assemble some data on

B-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

S-E-C-R-E-T

- 5 -

Mr Charles that I regard as reliable. He is specifically referred to as "Papa Doc's" banker and financial manager. Mr Charles, as would be expected is "very close to the Palace" and has ready access to President Duvelier. As for his character, he is described as "a crook and a poor liar." In other words, Mr Charles is truly a Haitian political character and not to be trusted under any conditions.

6. I noted that Mr Charles mentions his activity in 1954 as a negotiator on behalf of the Haitian Government with the General Electric Co of England for modernization of the country's telecommunications system. As a result of this contract Haiti experienced one of its greatest political scandals for the contract was for US$4 million, and the actual delivery of products was only US$1 million. I, likewise, observed that Mr Charles is president of the Haitian Banana Corp. which was originally operated by Eric Tippenhauer and Colonel Prosper, and subsequently was bankrupt because of financial mismanagement. Still further, Essential Oils Co was at one time the exclusive domain of Senator Louis De Joie, and since his death the company is headed by Mr Charles.

7. I am personally satisfied that Mr Clémard Joseph Charles is President Duvalier's personal financial manager, and the companies directed by Mr Charles are in fact owned and/or controlled for the benefit of Haiti's chief executive. At the moment Mr Charles' principal assistant in the tobacco industry is Henry Siclait, who just happens to be Director of the Haitian Tobacco Monopoly and Secretary-Treasurer of Le Tabac Haition, S. A. Siclait is believed to be Mr Charles' "hatchet man" but I was not able to verify this allegation.

- end -

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in black capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

|                   |         |
| ----------------- | ------- |
| FILE NO. (if any) | A-2     |
| DATE              | 2-13-66 |

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 101 (a) 15 (A) or 101 (a) 15(G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

| NAME (Last, in CAPS)    | (First) | (Middle) | NATIONALITY (Citizenship) |
| ----------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------------------- |
| CHARLES, Clemard Joseph |         |          | Haiti                     |

UNITED STATES ADDRESS
Hatian Consulate, New York, N.Y.

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
PAA 234

PERMANENT ADDRESS
c/o Banque Commerciale, Port-au-Prince, Haiti

| BIRTH DATE | BIRTH PLACE           |
| ---------- | --------------------- |
| 4-21-23    | Port-au-Prince, Haiti |

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
2-2-66, NYC

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
Duration of status

DESTINATION
See above

> [Figure] A handwritten annotations and signature.

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this alien to the F. B. I.

on C.I.A.
S.S.I.
State Dept.

Form I-97
(Rev. 7-15-63)

Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control

201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

SECRET

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RID/201 Section Room GA-20 Tube Address DW-6 DATE

FROM:

1. TYPE ACTION OPEN 2. FILE RESTRICTED. YES 3. PERMANENT CHARGE YES
   AMEND NO
   CLOSE

4. TRUE NAME CLEMARD JOSOUN CHOKI 5. 201 NO. 725692
   (Last) (First) (Middle)

6. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (see Instructions, item 6)
   TYPE

7. SEX 8. DATE OF BIRTH 9. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 10. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
   M F

11. CITIZENSHIP 12. OCCUPATION (clear text) OCC. CODE 13. SWL 14. 01 CODE

15. DOCUMENT SYMBOL & NUMBER DATE 16 RESIDENCE

17. COMMENTS (text for Index cards)

> [Figure: A small block with text that reads "CENTRAL INDICES UNIT 004 357029"]

18. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE 19. ACTION DESK CODE 20. SECONDARY DESK CODE
    2-61

21. INFORMATION ADDRESSEES

22. CRYPTONYM HAND CARRY OR FORWARD BY TUBE IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE.

23. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTER 201 NO. 725692

FORM 661 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

4 November 1965

TO:
Assistant Chief of Staff, Intelligence
Department of the Army
Attention: ISI

FROM: Interagency Source Register

SUBJECT: CHARLES, Joseph Cleard (ID 11612)

1. Reference is made to your requests concerning Subject dated 8 May 1963 and 27 October 1965. The files contain no pertinent information in addition to that which has been incorporated into the enclosed Biographic Report dated July 1964.

2. The Interagency Source Register has no record of a current operational interest in Subject.

E28M-11,348

Encl. 1 attachment as stated above

EID/CE: JMA/HP/bjr

Based on: 201-35709

FILE IN 201-357029

![Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SECRET
(When Filled in).

# RECHECK

REGISTRATION REQUEST

Glenn Crispell
FI/ISR
4 C24
X5045

NAME

CHARLES Joseph Clemard
ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATIONS

DATE OF BIRTH
21 April 1923
PLACE OF BIRTH
Gonaives, Haiti

CITIZENSHIP
Haitian

PRESENT ADDRESS
Port-au-Prince, Haiti, (Presently travelling in the U.S. '63) Unknown
PREST EMPLOYMENT
Unknown

TRAVEL

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT IDENTIFYING DATA


WH

DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

ISRM NO.
11,348
DATE
27 Oct 1965
201 NO.
357029
dup 725692

OCCUPATION



MEMORANDUM COORDINATION

| Date 29 Oct 65 | INITIALS |
| -------------- | -------- |
| RI ANALYST     |          |
| DIV. BRANCH    |          |
| RI EDITOR      |          |
| RL TYPIST      |          |

RID/CE: Both 20/8 are
Suld by Ise.

RECEIVED
RID/IN
27 8 48 AM '65

10/27/65
RH Refs

FILE IN 201-357029

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 30 SEPTEMBER 1965
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CLEMARD JOSEPH CLARLES REGISTRATION ACT - HAITI
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

DATE: 30 SEPTEMBER 1965
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES INTERNAL SECURITY - HAITI
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

# AGENC. CHECK SHEET

FROM: Defense Intelligence Agency

Charles, Clemard Joseph, or Clemard, Joseph Charles

SEX: Male

MARITAL STATUS: Unk/

ALIAS(ES) OR NICKNAMES: Via ei

DATE OF BIRTH: Unk

PLACE OF BIRTH: Unk (Haiti) (?)

PURPOSE OF CHECK: Request for Record Check.

LIST OF ORGANIZATIONS, ASSOCIATIONS. SOCIETIES OR CLUBS WITH WHICH AFFILIATED.

President, Chamber of Commerce, Port-au-Prince, Haiti





SPOUSE'S FULL NAME: Unk

RESIDENCES DURING PAST 15 YEARS

DATES:

FROM: Unk

TO: Present

STREET AND NUMBER:

CITY: Port-au-Prince Haiti

STATE OR COUNTRY:

NAI to dated 9 Oct 64, subject the Possibility.

TOCS-DB-315/009 Regardity state reference

DATES

FROM: Unk

TO: Present

EMPLOYMENT DURING PAST 15 YEARS

Director, Commercial National Bank of Haiti, Port-au-Prince, Haiti

(2) 201's reg. 1 Oct

offlop of Sec. sufs

EDUCATION

DATES

FROM:

TO:

NAME OF SCHOOL:

LOCATION OF SCHOOL:

RETURN TO RID/CE/CS-

REMARKS OF CHECKING AGENCY

5

This is a request for a name check only and is not a request for an investigation or a clearance.

DIA FORM 6 (Rev 3-65)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 16 SEPTEMBER 1965

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUPJECT: FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - HATTI

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAMS

FROM PORT AUPRINCE EMBTEL 1188

DATE: 5 FEBRUARY 1965

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: VERBATIME TEXT

DATE: 23 JANUARY 1965

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

PORTAUPRINCE 1214

SUBJECT: NONE GIVEN (RE CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

INDEX:

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

K RES TO FILE NO

FILE RTD

DESTROY

FROM

PORT All PRINCE
ACTION
WH &

INFO
VR, FILE, di cilofs cl/sp
D04 21/13 5006 EEN FI NES!

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL
COPIES 38

ADVANCE COPY
IFSUED SLOTTED TUACO

TOI UNIT

RI COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

TIME BY

CAZ CA/CP

S ECRET 29 15252
29 DEC IN 5039
DIR INFO GNVA BERN CITE PRIN 29 74 FIASCO NARO AGTING

REF: DIR 68358 (NOT SENT GNVA, BERN)

ABSTRACT

1. PER PRIN DAILY LE NOUVELLISTE REPEAT LE NOUVEL LISTE,
   ELIZABETH DABINOVIC LEFT PRIN 23 DECEMBER AFTER FIVE DAY VISIT
   WITH MRS. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, WIFE PRESIDENT COMMERCIAL
   BANK HAITI.

2. VISIT SIGNIFICANT SINCE PER REF, BOZO DABINOVIC,
   ELIZABETH'S HUSBAND, POSSIBLY INVOLVED MOHAMMED FAYED'S EFFORTS
   PURCHASE ARMS FOR HAITI. CLEMARD CHARLES IS HAITIAN ST
   INVOLVED FAYED'S AFFAIRS PRIN. PER GNVA INFO, BOZO'S SHIPPING
   FIRM GNVA REGISTERED IN ELIZABETH'S NAME.

SECRET


![signature]

201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-35772
X-REF TO FILE NO
FILE RID RET TO
DESTROY SIG
PORT AU PRINCE
SSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES: 1-1
3 SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
COPY DUMMY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ACTION
INFO
WH 8
ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
ISSUED LOTTED USED
AN
FI DESTROY
VR. FILE, D04,D0/H3, FS/sp6, FI,
ABSTRACT X INDEX
ROLUNET 2315232
DIM CITE PRIN 2966
REF: PRIN 2953 C1H42019
23 DECC:IN 48045
1. CLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES RETURNED PRIN 21 DECEMBER. NO INFO AS
   YET AVAILABLE RE RESULT HIS NEGOTIATIONS.

2. LUCKKER CAMBRONNE RETURLED SANE FLIGHT BUT, PER PRESS REPORTS,
   PROBABLE HE TRAVELED TO ESCORT DUVALIER'S DAUGHTER FRON GIVA SCHOOL TO
   PRI.

SECRET

RI COPY

FORM 1389
RI COPY
RI COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and P. turalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington 25, D. C.

FILE NO. (if any)

DATE

12-13-64

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of section 101 (a) 15 (A) or 101 (a) 15 (6) of the lamigration and Nationality Act.

NAME
CHARLE
(Last, PS)
CIZYART
(First)
F.
(Middle)
NATIONALITY (Citizenship)
HAITI

UNITED STATES ADDRESS

CONSULATE De HAITI NY City

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO, OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
PAN 222

PERMANENT ADDRESS
TACUT FORT A. PRINCE, HAITI

BIRTH DATE
4.25.23
BIRTH PLACE
HAITI

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
19-12-64 JEKIA

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
A.2(7.5) Dipl STATE

DESTINATION
CONSULATE De HAITI, NYCITY

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this allen to the F. B. I.

![seal] NAI to TOCS DB 315/OCA 74-6709 checked 9 Oct 64

FILE IN 201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

TRANSMITT
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

201-357029
131: E.CRET
Ост 9 21 59.64

|                     |                                                                             |     |
| ------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-: |
| ORIG.               | HELEN NORGAN                                                                |     |
| UNIT                | WII/2/HAITI                                                                 |  1  |
| EXT.                | 6026                                                                        |  2  |
| DATE                | 9 OCTOBER 1961                                                              |  3  |
| CONFIRMATION COPIES | WH 12                                                                       |     |
| INFORMATION COPIES  | CI/IC, CI/OPS, FI/FI/D, FI/INT 6, IW, CA/0 6, CA/PEG, DODS, WII/SA 5, SOD 4 |     |

DATE DISTRIBUTED
9 OCTOBER 1961

| WH/2/HAITI 4 | DISSEMINATION     |
| ------------ | ----------------- |
|              | WH/PRIN 1 WH/PRIN |
|              | WH/JMWAVE/JMPALM  |

|                         |       | ARMY | NAVY | AIR |
| ----------------------- | ----- | ---- | ---- | :-: |
| EVALUATION REQUESTED OF | STATE | XX   |      |     |

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

RELAY REQUEST ATTACHED FOR RELAY TO CINCSO AND CINCLANT.

C S INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET
(WMEN FILLED IN)

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DECLASIFICATION

RELEASING OFFICER

N/WH/R H. Benchee

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

## Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY HAITI

DATE OF 3 OCTOBER 1964
INFO.

* ROUTINE

TDCS DB-315/00974-64

DISTR. 9 OCTOBER 1964

SUBJECT

INQUIRIES REGARDING THE POSSIBILITY OF
BUYING AIRCRAFT FOR HAITI

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (7 OCTOBER 1964)

REF IN 89699

SOURCE

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6004

AND
APPRAISAL: UNITED STATES CITIZEN (C) WHO OPERATES A BUSINESS IN HAITI, WHERE HE ENJOYS
THE FRIENDSHIP OF MANY MILITARY AND GOVERNMENT LEADERS, AND WHO IS A FORMER
MILITARY OFFICER AND A TRAINED REPORTER, FROM SAUDERS V. ROBERSCI.
APPRAISAL: 3.

1. ON OR ABOUT 3 OCTOBER 1964 THE AVIATION INVESTORS COMPANY OF FORT
   LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, RECEIVED AN INQUIRY ABOUT THE POSSIBILITY OF BUYING A
   C-119 AIRCRAFT FOR THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT. THE CALL WAS MADE BY RAYMOND
   (NOT FURTHER IDENTIFIED) TO SAUDERS V. ROBERSON, AN AVIATION INVESTORS COMPANY
   EMPLOYEE, WHO AGREED TO INVESTIGATE THE PROPOSED AIRCRAFT PURCHASE.

2. ON 5 OCTOBER ROBERSON RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL FROM A MAN WHO
   IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS "RASH" (PHONETIC) REGARDING THE POSSIBLE PURCHASE OF A
   P-51 AIRCRAFT OSTENSIBLY FOR THE COLOMBIAN GOVERNMENT, BUT IT WAS ACTUALLY
   INTENDED FOR HAITI. ROBERSON AGREED TO MEET WITH "RASI" AT THE CONGRESS
   BUILDING IN MIAMI TO DISCUSS DETAILS OF BOTH PURCHASES.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN/CONTROLLED DISSE

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONE OCR GRR OO TREASURY FRI INS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

TDCS DB-315/00974-AGE 2

3. SOURCE COMMENT: ROBERSON IS A CAUCASIAN BORN CIRCA 1917 WHO ONCE
   ATTEMPTED SUGAR NEGOTIATIONS IN HAITI, WHERE HE BECAME KNOWN TO SEVERAL HAITIAN
   GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS, INCLUDING JOSEPH CLEMARD CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE
   COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI. (FIELD COMMENT: ANOTHER SOURCE PREVIOUSLY REPORTED
   THAT CHARLES HAD UNSUCCESSFULLY ATTEMPTED TO BUY T-28 AIRCRAFT IN ARIZONA.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, CUSTOMS, FBI, I&NS, BORDER PATROL, CINCLANT,
   CINCSO (ALSO SENT PORT-AU-PRINCE).

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

NO FOREION DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

FROM PORT-AU-PRINCE CONTROL: 7094

DATE: 8 OCTOBER 1964

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: NONE GIVEN (RE CLEMARD CHARLES AND
FNU SANJURJO)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# SECRET

## DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM S. DATE OF INFO. 8. EVALUATION

9. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE DOCUMENT DISPOSITION 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

CHARLES, JOSEPH D.

201-097839

SEX M DOB ?

CIT HAITI

OCC ?

SUBJ REPORTEDLY WOULD RECEIVE POWER

POSITION IF DUVALIER GOVT OVERTHROWN

IN HAITI. OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENCY.

201-727690

UFGA-14051

19 FEB 64

*200-120-63

P2

1892208

![chart with vertical bars]

#HTP

1 892 208

![signature or writing on page]

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

Estucel), Comments:

201-97539

13 June 1963

IV. Joseph D. Charles (Black): A man of correct behavior, cultured, honest, would like to be Chief of State, but does not have the real stuff to lead the people.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

SECRET
(When Filled in)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

**SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT**

**DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION**

**RI FILE NO.**

**3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.**

**4. DATE**

**5. SOURCE CRYPTONYM**

**6. DATE OF INFO.**

**9. EVALUATION**

**8. ANALYST**

**6. DATE PROCESSED**

**101 DISSEMINATED IN**

**10. DATE**

**DOCUMENT DISPOSITION**

**18. CROSS REFERERED TO THIS FILE**

**19: TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.**

**PERTINENT INFORMATION**

CHARLES, M. CLEMARD JOSEPH
201-357029
SEX M DOB?
201-725439
IX -00193
21 MAY 63
PAZR 2054126

CIT ?
OCC ?

SUBJ HAS RETURNED TO HAITI AND IS BEING SERIOUSLY CONSIDERED AS THE NEXT PRES..
SUBJ 201-725439 SAID THAT M. CHARLES IS RECEIVING CONSIDERABLE SUPPORT.

AR278
5/5/64 718

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET

![photo of 01 00001_00000000 60000 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 77 78 79 8 11111111111111111111 22222222222222222222 .333333333333333333333 ....................44 55555555555555555555 86666666666666666666 7:777777711111111111 100]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

-- ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Clemaid Joseph Charles

FROM: Stunts EXTENSION NO. 39,201
Chief, Contact Division (Suppl) 2270 Care 40-556

DATE: 21 May 63

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                | RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| -------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. Fritz Farry | DODS     | fri       | For the 201        |                                                                                                         |
| 2.             |          |           |                    | frent a copy to K.T. Ripley                                                                             |
| 3.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9.             |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 10.            |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11.            |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.            |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.            |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.            |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 18.            |          |           |                    |                                                                                                         |

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

Chief, Contact Division
ATTN: Support (Stunts)
INFO: LA (McCrea) and Czajkowski

Chief, Nov York Office

Case-40,556 --- Clemard Joseph Charles

C601A(S) 3, 2007, 278
17 May 1963

1. At Clemard Joseph Charles' request, on 14 May 63 C/S Balog
   had a "farewell" interview with the Haitian banker. The private con-
   versation, which took place at Charles' room at the Park Sheraton
   Hotel in New York, lacted about one hour. On 15 May 1963 Charles flew
   back to Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

2. At the outset of our "confidential" interview Charles'
   sheved us a letter written by William Stix Wasserman, 40 Wall Street,
   Hew York 5, H.Y. whom Charles' Cescribed as a "big financier and my
   adviser" and addressed to Sensor Hubert Humphrey. According to Charles,
   Humphrey and Wasserman are good friends, an allegation which may be trus
   since the salutation of the letter was "Dear Hubert" and the general tone
   of it indicated a fairly close relationship between the two.

3. In his letter, Wasserman asked the Senator to receive Charles
   when he described as a man with "liberal views in regard to cooperatives."
   Wasserman vant en saying that Charles sees "the necessity of creating
   a nev relationship between capital and labor primarily through profit
   / sharing that will at least nullify to some extent the siren song of
   Communist propaganda." Wasserman concluded by stating the following:
   I think at this very critical time in Heitien affairs and with Castro.
   enly 60 miles away that the Administration might begin to look for men
   with Mr. Charles' ability and attitude to see what can constructively
   be, dane te bring some hope to that unfortunate island."

4. Charles stated that since he was unable to make another trip
   to Washington to see Bouzator Eusphrey he asked his friend and business
   partner, Joseph F. Dryer, Tampa, Florida to present Wasserman's letter
   to the Senater and request him to receive Charles when the Haitian banker
   returns to the US en cue of his frequent business trips.

5. Charles reiterated his villingass to cooperate with the Us
   Coverunont. En visbon te be contacted at his bank in Port-au-Prince, but not hi5
   his home, Fast Et. He stated that after his return to Haiti he will
   suntact la utasat confidence" wake of his influential friends, Army
   officers, intellectuals, writers, Journalists, business men and will be

SEGHET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

glad to talk with a US Government official concerning the "general political climate in Haiti." Although he has had several contacts with members of the US Kabassy in Port-au-Prince, he prefers to cooperate with "one of Captain Balog's friends." All the US official has to do is to walk Anto his office at the bank and say that "In an a friend of Captain Balog's". If a contact is made this way he will be willing to cooperate "to the fullest."

6. He told us that he was not prepared to give his support to those anti-Duvalier politicians in exile who had a few days ago announgod the formation of a government in exile since "they are not the right people to take over in Haiti." He emphasized that he would not under any circumstance support Duvalier with whom he is thoroughly disillusioned. In fact, he thinks that Duvalier "went crazy and must be and will be eliminated." He did not elaborate and stated that first he must go back to Haiti and talk with his friends. He mentioned, however, that his cousin, Joseph D. Charles, a former ambassador of Haiti to the US who now lives in "forced retirement" in Cap Haitien, vas ready to re-enter the political life at a propitious mement. lie believes that his cousin vill have enough Army support to become provisional President and then with popular support will be elected President of Haiti. Upon his return to Port-au-Prince, Charles will work toward rallying support for Joseph D. Charles. He is confident that once in power, his uncle vould pursue a pro-US policy. At this point, Charles intimated that "a Joseph Charles government could grant the US rights to establish a naval base atMôle St.-Nicolas, which is about 60 miles from Cuba."

7. We wished Charles bon voyage and, of course, promised nothing concerning his offer to be contacted in Port-au-Prince. We merely told him that we would report our conversation to "our mutual friends in Washington" for their decision. Regardless of this decision, Charles" stated that during his next trip to New York he would call us on the telephone to discuss "things" in confidence.

Zalegipas

JAY B.L. REEVES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

# INFORMATION FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Clemard Joseph Charles

THIS COPY IS NOT FOR RELEASE.

1. On 29 April 1963 Dorothe Matlack, Domestic Exploitation Section, ACSI, telephoned to the effect that a banker named Clemard Joseph Charles had left Haiti six days earlier and had just arrived in New York. A friend of Charles, named Joseph Dryer, 109 Lakewood Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida, had written to General Delmar, former CG Antilles Command, recommending Charles as a man of great interest to the US government in view of the events in Haiti. Charles was described as President of the Banc Commerciale, Fort au Prince, Haiti, who is in President Duvalier's favor. Mrs. Matlack mentioned that she had alerted Col. Sam Kail in Miami to contact Dryer in order to obtain more background information and an assessment on Charles.

2. On 1 May 63 Mrs. Matlack advised that Charles was staying at the Park Sheraton Hotel, New York, and that he had telephoned her since her name had been supplied to him by Dryer. Charles considered her to be his point of contact in Washington. According to Mrs. Matlack, Charles had appointments to see Vice President Johnson, Senator Keating, and Congressman Rogers (Florida). However, Charles was willing to talk to representatives of Mrs. Matlack's office. Mrs. Matlack stated that the Haitian Desk man in ACSI was ready to go to New York to talk to Charles and invited CIA to accompany him. Charles speaks very little English and a fluency in French was therefore required for the interview. Mrs. Matlack stated that she might be able to obtain a French linguist from First Army, Governor's Island, but he would not be an intelligence officer. It was decided that James Balog, New York Office, who has a knowledge of the French language would accompany the ACSI representative. It was also arranged that Balog would meet the ACSI representative (Captain Rogers) at the Park Sheraton Hotel where Charles was staying.

3. On 2 May 63 Mrs. Matlack reported that Col. Kail had interviewed Mr. Dryer in West Palm Beach. Dryer had appointed Charles as Director of his bank in Haiti. Charles, according to Dryer, formerly had no political ambitions but in view of the current political situation in Haiti, Charles now thinks that he may some day be president. Dryer described Charles as well-connected, politically and financially, on both sides of the fence in Haiti. He is also a good friend of President Duvalier. Dryer had given Charles letters of introduction to Senator Keating and to other officials in Washington. Charles wanted to see President Kennedy and indeed had gone to the White House to arrange for an appointment. He was well received by the President's appointment secretary and invited to dinner that evening with the appointment.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

# SULICT: Clemart Joseph C

secretary. Through a misunderston ling, however, Charles did not attend the dinner but went to New York instead.

4. Charles is travelling, according to Dryer, with a Texan geologist namei de Mohrenschilat. de Hohrenschildt is associated with Charles in a business venture in Haiti and is trying to arrange a meeting for Charles with Vice President Johnson.

5. On 3 May 63 Jim Balog telephoned to advise that he had had a five-hour session the previous day with Charles and that he had obtained both personality data and views by Charles on what the United States should do in the current Haitian situation. Balog advised that he was transmitting the information to Washington. Upon arrival, copies of the teletypes were transmitted to ACSI (Mrs. Matlack), WH Division, and the Latin America Branch.

6. On 6 May 63 Mayo Stuntz, Support Franch, advised that WH Division wished to speak to Charles and Balog was asked to arrange an appointment. Mrs. Matlack telephoned at approximately 1715 to advise that she had just received a telephone call from Mrs. de Mohrenschildt asking assistance in obtaining hotel reservations in Washington. Upon being told that we had no special means of obtain- ing reservations, Mrs. Matlack stated that she would check with the State Department Protocol Office to determine which hotels would admit negro guests. Mrs. Matlack finally made reservations at the Alban Towers. A check with Jim Balog revealed that he had arranged for Charles to meet the Wil representative in the lobby of the Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C., at 10:00 noon on 7 Nay. Attempts to reach Mrs. Matlack that afternoon were unsuccessful. At 0830, 7 May, a call was made to Mrs. Hatlack to confirm that Charles would be in Washington on that day and that arrangements had been made for a meeting with an Agency representative for 12:00 noon. Mrs. Matlack retorted that both Mrs. de Mohrenschildt and Charles had called her that previous evening to confirm a 12:00 luncheon appointment with her. Mrs. Matlack was concerned that CIA and Army should not be working at cross purposes. She had received authorization from ACSI to meet Charles at lunch and felt that it would not be politic for her to withdraw from her appointment since Army considered her the point of contact with Charles. Mayo Stunts informed Wil Division of the conflict and passed on the suggestion that the WH Division representative mislit meet Charles and Mrs. Natlack at noon and that Mrs. Matlack offered to withdraw shortly thereafter. The WH repre- sentative declined the offer and requested that a mecting later in the afternoon be arranged. Mrs. Matlack believed that due to con- flicting instructions, she had been placed in the middle in the situation from which she could not graciously withdraw and requested that someone accompany her.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

-3-

SUBJECT: Clemani Joseph CHARGES

7. I met Hrs. Hatlack in the lobby of the Hotel Willard shortly before noon, and a few minutes later, Mr. Charles arrived, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. de Mohrenachi Lelt. We lunched in the restaurant in the hotel. Nr. do Mohrenschildt mentioned that he had been born in Batu, Russia, but during the Bolshevik Revolution had been taken to Poland as a small child. lie had spent approximately 20 years in Poland prior to World War II and had servel in the Polish Army. He also mentioned that he had been a member of un ICA Team to Yugo- slavia in 1957 and while in Belgrado had met Gomulka who was visiting Belgrade at the time. He had spoken to Gomulka and was invited to visit Poland, which invitation he had accepted. His home is in Dallas, Texas. He has sth. in jeology and has hol some teaching experience. Mrs. de Nohrenschildt was born in Peking, China. Her father was Russian and her mother French, and che is now or has been a fashion designer. Nr. de Hohrenschildt mentioned that he has known Charles for sometime and that he is a partner with him ir a sisal business in Haiti.

8. Both Charles and de Mohrenschildt were anxious to arrange meetings with government officials in Washington. I mentioned to Charles that a meetin; had been arranged for him at 2:15 and that a Mr. Green would meet him in the lobby. At 1410 Mrs. Matlack, Mr. and Mrs. de Mohrenschillt and I departed and Charles remained in the lobby waiting for contact.

9. In the course of theo luncheon conversation, Charles had mentioned to Mrs. Matlick that he desired to see a Mr. Wise, AID, to discuss US aid to llaiti. Inter that afternoon Mrs. Matlack called to state that she had called the State Department to pass along Charles' request. Mr. Zagorski (State) had called her back to pass on the Haitian Desk man's extreme displeasure that anyone in the United States Government should be in official contact with Charles. The desk man considered Charles to be close to the Duvalier Government, to have been involved in several shady financial dealings, and in general, to be an undesirable character. Mrs. Matlack asked whether the Agency had any interest in Charles which would dictate further contact with Charles.

10. Mayo Stuntz chocked with WIl Division and determined that as a result of the mooling with Charles, the DD/P Haitian Desk had no further plans to contact him. I told Mrs. Matlack that our interest seemed to have been satisfied and that I believed we should disengage ourselves as gracefully as possible.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

- 4 -

11. DD/F Coordinator, called on 7 May to inquire concerning our involvement in the Charles case. He stated that ACSI had called him earlier that day to assure him that ACSI had no direct interest in Charles and that it was acting as an intermediary at the request of General Delmar who had passed the lead to General Fitch.

ACSI was concerned that due to the mix up in appointments to see Charles, charges might later be made that ACCI had interferred or had obstructed CIA contact with Charles. I explained to Nelson what had happened and he later called back to state that ACSI was completely satisfied in the way the matter had been handled.

12. On 3 May Mrs. Matlack telephoned to advise that the Operational Branch of ACSI was discussing the Charles case with DD/F to determine future course of action. She was still somewhat concerned over her own position in the case since Charles considered her to be the focal point in Washington. I reiterated to her that the matter was one for either the State Department or the operational elements to handle and that we preferred to disengage ourselves. Mrs. Matlack mentioned that a dispatch had been received to the effect that a cousin of Charles was prominently mentioned as a successor to Duvalier should the latter be overthrown. She was of the opinion that the US government should continue to "play ball" with Charles as a future asset in Haitian affairs.

Distribution:

Oris - O/Chief

1 - New York Office

1 - Support (Stunts)

1 - LA Branch

1 - Index (Control)

1 - Dep/Coll chrono

A. F. CZAJKOWSKI

AFCzajkowskitaor


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

# 14-00000

# PENMORAJADUS FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Clemari Joseph CHARLES

file - Charles-20
Card

10 May 1963

1. On 29 April 1963 Dorothe Matlack, Domestic Exploitation
   Section, ACSI, telephoned to the effect that a banker named Clemard
   Joseph Charles had left Haiti six days earlier and had just arrived
   in New York. A friend of Charles, named Joseph Dryer, 109 Lakewood
   Avenue, West Palm Beach, Florida, had written to General Delmar,
   former CG Antilles Command, recommending Charles as a man of great
   interest to the US government in view of the events in Haiti, Charles
   was described as President of the Banc Commerciale, Fort au Prince,
   Haiti, who is in President Duvalier's favor. Mrs. Matlack mentioned
   that she had alerted Col. Sam Kail in Miami to contact Dryer in
   order to obtain more background information und an assessment on
   Charles.

2. On 1 May 63 Mrs. Matlack advised that Charles was staying at
   the Park Sheraton Hotel, New York, and that he had telephoned her
   since her name had been supplied to him by Dryer. Charles considered
   her to be his point of contact in Washington. According to Mrs. Matlack,
   Charles had appointments to see Vice President Johnson, Senator Keating,
   and Congressman Rogers (Florida). However, Charles was willing to talk
   to representatives of Mrs. Matlack's office. Mrs. Matlack stated that
   the Haitian Desk man in ACSI was ready to go to New York to talk to
   Charles and invited CIA to accompany him. Charles speaks very little
   English and a fluency in French was therefore required for the inter--
   view. Mrs. Matlack stated that she might be able to obtain a French
   linguist from Mrst Army, Governor's Island, but he would not be an
   intelligence officer. It was decided that James Balog, New York
   Office, who has a knowledge of the French language would accompany
   the ACSI representative under Army cover. It was also arranged that
   Balog would meet the ACGI representative (Captain Rogers) at the Park
   Sheraton Hotel where Charles was staying.

3. On 2 May 63 Mrs. Matlack reported that Col. Kail had interviewed
   Mr. Dryer in West Palm Beach. Dryer had appointed Charles as Director
   of his bank in Haiti. Charles, according to Dryer, formerly had no
   political ambitions but in view of the current political situation in
   Haiti, Charles now thinks that he may some day be president. Dryer
   described Charles as well-connected, politically and financially, on
   both sides of the fence in Haiti. He is also a good friend of President
   Duvalier. Dryer had given Charles letters of introduction to Senator
   Keating and to other officials in Washington. Charles wanted to see
   President Kennedy and indeed had gone to the White House to arrange
   for an appointment. No war well received by the President's appoint-
   ment secretary and invited to dinner that evening with the appointment


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

# 2-

SUBJECT: Clemant Joseph CHARL

secretary. Through a misunderstanding, however, Charles did not attend the dinner but went to New York instead.

4. Charles is travelling, according to Dryer, with a Texan geologist namei de Mohrenschildt. de Mohrenschildt is associated with Charles in a business venture in Haiti and is trying to arrange a meeting for Charles with Vice President Johnson.

5. On 3 May 63 Jim Balog telephoned to advise that he had had a five-hour session the previous day with Charles and that he had obtained both personality data and views by Charles on what the United States should do in the current Haitian situation. Balog advised that he was transmitting the information to Washington. Upon arrival, copies of the teletypes were trasmitted to ACSI (Mrs. Matlack), WH Division, and the Latin America Branch.

6. On 6 May 63 Mayo Stuntz, Support Franch, advised that WH Division wished to speak to Charles and Balog was asked to arrange an appointment.. Mrs. Matlack telephoned at approximately 1715 to advise that she had just received a telephone call from Mrs. de Mohrenschildt asking assistance in obtaining hotel reservations in Washington. Upon being told that we had no special means of obtaining reservations, Mrs. Matlack stated that she would check with the State Department Protocol Office to determine which hotels would admit negro guests. Mrs. Matlack finally made reservations at the Alban Towers. A. check with Jim Balog revealed that he had arranged for Charles to meet the Wil representative in the lobby of the Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C., at 10:00 noon on 7 Nay. Attempts to reach Mrs. Matlack that afternoon were unsuccessful. At 0830, 7 May, a call was made to Mrs. Matlack to confirm that Charles would be in Washington on that day and that arrangements had been made for a. meeting with an Agency representative for 12:00 noon. Mrs. Matlack retorted that both Mrs. de Mohrenschildt and Charles had called her that previous evening to confirm a 12:00 luncheon appointment with her. Mrs. Matlack was concerned that CIA and Army should not be working at cross purposes. She had received authorization from ACSI to meet Charles at lunch and felt that it would not be politic for her to withdrm: from her appointment since Army considered her the point of contact with Charles. Mayo Stuntz informed Wil Division of the conflict and passed on the suggestion that the WH Division representative might meet Charles and Mrs. Matinck at noon and that Mrs. Matlack offered to withdraw shortly thereafter. The WH representative declined the offer and requested that a meeting later in the afternoon be arranged. Mrs. Matinck believed that due to conflicting instructions, she had been placed in the middle in the situation from which the could not graciously withdraw and requested that someone accompany her.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

-3-

SUBJECT: Clemani Joseph M

7. I met Mes. Hatlack in the lobby of the Hotel Willard shortly before noon, and a few minuter Inter, Mr. Charles arrived, accompanied by Mr. and Mrs. de Mohrenachilalt." We lunched in the restaurant in the hotel. Nr. de Mohrenschildt mentioned that he had been born in Batu, Russia, but during the Bolshevik Revolution had been taken to Poland as a small child. lie had spent approximately 20 years in Poland prior to World War II and had served in the Polish Army. He also mentione! that he had been a member of an ICA Team to Yugo- slavia in 1957 and while in Belgrado had met Comulka who was visiting Belgrade at the time. He had spoken to Gomulka and was invited to visit Poland, which invitation he had accepted. His home is in Dallas, Texas. He hasth. in geology and has had some teaching experience. Mrs. de Mohrenschildt was born in Feking, China. Her father was Russian and her mother French, and che is now or has been a fashion designer. tir. de Mohrenschildt mentioned that he has known Charles for sometime and that he is a partner with him in a sisal business in Haiti.

8. Both Charles and de Mohrenschildt were anxious to arrange meetings with government officials in Washington. I mentioned to Charles that a meeting had been arranged for him at 2:15 and that a Mr. Green would meet him in the lobby. At 1410 Mrs. Matlack, Mr. and Mrs. de Mohrenschillt and I departed and Charles remained in the lobby waiting for contact.

9. In the course of the luncheon conversation, Charles had mentioned to Mrs. Matlick that he desired to see a Mr. Wise, AID, to discuss US aid to laiti. Later that afternoon Mrs. Matlack called to state that she had called the State Department to pass along Charles' request. Mr. Zagorski (State) had called her beck to pass on the Haitian Desk man'a extreme displeasure that anyone in the United States Government should be in official contact with Charles. The desk man considered Charles to be close to the Duvalier Government, to have been involved in several chady financial dealings, and in general, to be an undesimble character. Mrs. Matlack asked whether the Agency had any interest in Charles which would dictate further contact with Charles.

10. Mayo Stuntz chocked with WIH Division and determined that as a result of the meeting with Charles, the DD/P Haitian Desk had no further plans to contnet him. I told Mrs. Matlack that our interent seemed to inve boon satisfied and that. I believed we should disengage ourselves as gracefully as possible.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

11. Wayne Ison, DD/P Coordinator, called on 7 May to inquire concerning our involvement in the Charles case. He stated that ACSI land called him earlier that day to assure him that ACSI had no direct interest in Charles and that it as acting as an intermediary at the request of General Delmar who had passed the lead to General Fitch. ACSI was concerned that due to the mix up in appointments to see Charles, charges might later be made that ACCI had interferred or had obstructed CIA contact with Charles. I explained to Nelson what had happened and he later called back to state that ACSI was completely satisiel in the way the matter had been handled.

12. On 8 May Mrs. Matlack telephoned to advise that the Operational Branch of ACSI was discussing the Charles case with DD/P to determine future course of action. She was still somewhat concerned over her own position in the case since Charles considered her to be the focal point in Washington. I reiterated to her that the matter was one for either the State Department or the operational elements to handle and that we preferred to disengage ourselves. Mrs. Matlack mentioned that a dispatch had been received to the effect that a cousin of Charles was promintently mentioned as a successor to Duvalier should the latter be overthrown. She was of the opinion that the US government should continue to "play ball" with Charles as a future asset in Haitian affairs.

Distribution:
Orig - O/Chief
1 - New York Office
1 - Support (Stuntz)
1- LA Branch
1- Index (Control)
1- Dep/Coll chrono

A. F. CZAJKOWSKI

AFCzajkowski:acr


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)