# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BOREAL OF INVESTIGATION

RE: CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

DBA31003

Miami, Florida
April 16, 1963

The April 9, 1963, issue of the "Miami News" carried an article entitled, "Exiles Say Miro To Quit". This article stated that informed exile sources claim that Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA would resign his post as head of the Cuban Revolutionary Council. The article said exile sources gave two possibilities for his resignation. One faction believed that MIRO's recent trip to Washington from which he returned Sunday (April ?) was to pin down the United States Government to a statement of positive policy regarding Cuba. Another school of thought was that the Council head was retiring from his post in protest of Government curbing of hit-and-run raids on the Communist island of Cuba.

The article went on to state that Dr. MIRO's leadership in the Council, aimed at uniting all Cuban exiles, has been burdened by problems since his appointment in March 1961.

On April 10, 1963, MM T-1, a former Cuban business executive, who is employed by the Cuban Revolutionary Council and who is a close personal friend of Dr. MIRO CARDONA, who has furnished some reliable information in the past, advised that an all-night session of the Council was held beginning April 9, and ending at about 6:00 A.M., on April 10, during which time MIRO CARDONA presented his resignation but the Council refused to accept his resignation and MIRO CARDONA was persuaded to remain as President of the Council.

MM T-1 said that MIRO's resignation consisted of a 25-page statement which was in effect an indictment against the administration of President JOHN F. KENNEDY of the United States. In rejecting his resignation, the Council backed up

CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

MIRO but in the interest of both the United States and the Cuban exiles, decided upon a public statement which reads as follows:

"CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL

"The Cuban Revolutionary Council, having studied the report of its President, Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, concerning present relations with the United States Government, agrees:

"1. Not to accept the resignation of Dr. Jose Miro Cardona, and declare its full support for the basic plans contained in his resignation.

"2. To affirm that there is a serious crisis, brought about by the present policy of the government of this country.

"3. To express the Council's hope of overcoming the present crisis and calling upon all of America, including the United States, for moral and material support in their fight to regain their sovereignty and independence, and the strict fulfilment of American treaties and agreements, as well as the joint resolution of the U. S. Congress, calling for effective action against Soviet intervention in America.

"4. To affirm that the Council has always insisted, and still insists, upon the necessity of Cuban participation in the process of liberating Cuba. The only procedure which the Council would accept would be coordination of forces, on a plane of complete respect for national dignity. Cuba will never renounce her legitimate right to be in the first line of combat.

"5. To reaffirm their unshakeable decision to continue the fight against the Soviet-Castro regime, under any circumstances whatsoever.

2. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

"6. In these difficult times, the Cuban Revolutionary Council urges all Cubans to close ranks to achieve the national unity needed to hasten our march towards Freedom.

"Miami, April 10, 1963,"

"Movimiento Democrata Cristiano
(Christian Democratic Movement)
JOSE FERNANDEZ BADUE

"Movimiento de Recuperacion Revolucionaria
(Movement for Revolutionary Recovery)
CESAR BARO

"Agrupacion Montecristi
(Montecristi Group)
FRANCISCO CARRILLO

"Unidad Revolucionaria.
(Revolutionary Union)
FERNANDO FERNANDEZ CABADA

"Rescate Democratico Revolucionario
(Revolutionary Democratic Recovery)
RAUL MENDEZ PIREZ

"Movimiento Revolucionary 30 de Noviembre
(30th of November Revolutionary Movement)
ORLANDO RODRIGUEZ

"Accion Revolucionaria Democratica
(Democratic Revolutionary Action)
GERARDO QUESADA

"Frente Obrero Revolucionario de Cuba (FORDC)
(Revolutionary Labor Front of Cuba

"Military Section
JOSE E. MONTEAGUDO

3. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

"Sector Frofesional
(Professional Section)
ENRIQUE HUERTAS

"Corporaciones Economicas
(Economic Branch)
Dr. TULIO DIAZ RIVERA
MANUEL ANTONIO DE VARONA
SERGIO CARBO
RICARDO LORIE
ANTONIO MACEO
ANTONIO SILIO, Secretary

MM T-1 explained that when Dr, MIRO CARDONA returned to Miami from a trip to Washington, D. C., on Sunday, where he contacted high government officials, he came away with the feeling that:

1) The United States has no plan to free Cuba of Communism.

2) If the United States ever does formulate any plans, it will do so without consideration for the Cuban exiles in the United States.

3) The United States policy is now one of peaceful co-existence with Communist Cuba.

MM T-1 said that in his opinion, the Cuban exiles are frustrated, confused, losing faith in the United States and there is a growing feeling of abandonment of them by the United States.

The April 10, 1963, issue of the "Miami Herald" carried a headline article entitled, "Miro Resigns as Exile Chief; Raps U. S. Policy". This article stated that MIRO CARDONA resigned because the United States refused to allocate fifty million dollars to train a Cuban invasion force, according

4. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CUBAN FEVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

to government sources. The article said that exile leaders
close to MIRO said he resigned not only because of disagree-
ment with United States policy, "but because he feels
Waenington does not have any concrete plans to deal with
the dictator".

The April 11, 1963, issue of the "Miami Herald"
carried an article entitled, "Cuban Exile Council Vows to
Continue the Freedom Fight". In this article it was
stated that the Cuban Revolutionary Council had vowed to
continue its fight against Castro-Communism whether the
United States likes it or not. The article said that Dr.
MIRO CARLONA denied reports from U. S. Government sources
that he offered his resignation to the Council because the
United States refused to allocate fifty million dollars to
train a Cuban invasion force. The article stated that an
informed source said that KIRO decided to quit "because
of the change in the U. S. Cuban policy".

The April 16, 1963, issue of the "Miami Herald"
carried an article entitled "JFK Accepts Demand, Fidel Says".
This article by the UPI bearing a Havana dateline reported
that PILEL CASTRO told Cubans on Thursday (April 11) that the
KENUZDY Administration has accepted one of his five demands
for an end to tension in the Caribbean. This article stated
that in a one hour and forty minute speech, CASTRO said that
Washington in forbidding exiles to carry on further armed
attacks on Cuba, has fulfilled one of "five points for peace"
advancedby him and endorsed by the Soviet Union. The article
then went on to state that FIDEL announced that there are
still four conditions to be fulfilled and that acceptance of
them is the only sensible thing the KENNEDY Administration
can do. One of the five conditions, according to the article,
is U. S. evacuation of the big Naval base at Guantanamc.

On the morning of April 15, 1963, Miami radio news
broadcasts announced MIRO CARDONA would again offer his
resignation to the Council on that same day.

5. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY CO'MICIL
INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

On April 15, 1963, MM T-1 advised that he was positive that MIRO CARDONA did not intend to again tender his resignation on Monday, April 15, 1963, but was contemplating taking that action on the following Thursday, April 18, 1963. MM T-1 said that the Council was meeting on Thursday to take a definite attitude or tough line of action and that it was entirely probable that all of the members of the Council might resich in protest to the present policy of the United States with regard to the Cuban situation. He said that the prezent feeling of the Council towards the United States is basically "to hell with it".

MM T-1 expressed the personal feeling that U. S. policy towards Cuba 13 presently in a vacuum and consequently everything is at a standstill. The Cuban exiles in the Miami area feel that the U. S. is abandoning their cause and has now adopted a course of peaceful co-existence with Communist Cuba.

On April 15, 1963, MM T-2, a Cuban exile who has furnished some reliable information in the past and who is associated with fellow Cubans who belong to several different organizations, advised that reaction among the Cuban exiles 18 "very bad against the United States". He explained that the Cuban exiles allege that President KENNEDY has made promises to help them in their fight against CASTRO but is now opposing them and consequently they feel that the U. S. 18 now committed to a policy of peaceful co-existence with Communist Cuba. The Cuban exiles are fearful as to the future, confused as to why the U. S. has changed its policy and the exiles feel that they have been abandoned in their fight.

PROPERTY OF FBI - This memorandum is loaned to you by the FBI and neither it nor its contents are to be distributed outside the agency to which loaned.

6.*


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)