# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 95-1435429

SECRET

RYBAT

PAGE: 1

SECRET. FRP:

STAFF

CONF: EUR/PLANS INFO: EUDORECORD, EUR/CA, EUR/CGT, EUR/RIB, EUR/TECH,
LIMITO, MDSX, NR/OPSB, NR/ORG, OCC/CRG, OCC/RB, ODPD, FILE, DC/EURTNO (2/P)

95 1435429 ASR PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 415240

TOT: 221736Z AUG 95

SECRET

STAFF 221736Z DIRECTOR 415240

TO: STAMFORD, NEWARK.

FROM: LIMIT EUR/PLANS INFO EUR/CGT, EUR/CA, EUR/TECH, OCC/CRG,
NR/OPSB, NR/ORG

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT FASTTRACK LPAVERT

SUBJECT: LPAVERT PRINCIPAL AS E-MAIL COVER PROVIDER

REF: A. STAMFORD 17619 95 1221202

B. STAMFORD 17640 95 1241611

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: FYI, ONLY.

2. THIS CABLE SUPPLEMENTS INFO CONTAINED IN REFS. IT HAS BEEN DELAYED WHILE HQS WEIGHED THE SIGNIFICANCE OF THE LUNCHEON CONVERSATION REPORTED BELOW AND DECIDED HOW BEST TO USE THE PRESIDENT OF LPAVERT (SUBJ) IN EUR DIVISION'S E-MAIL COVCOM PROGRAM.

3. AFTER THE REF A'S SUCCESSFUL OPS MEETING WITH SUBJ, THE LATTER AND EUR I.C: MACDONALD E. ZAPPLEY HAD A LATE LUNCH TOGETHER AT A LOCAL MAEL RESTAURANT. OVER LUNCH SUBJ VOICED SOME OPINIONS WHICH MERIT RECORDING HERE:

A. AFTER SOME GENERAL CONVERSATION, SUBJ ASKED ZAPPLEY IF HE HAD EVER DONE ANYTHING FOR NWBOLTON THAT LATER HAD GIVEN HIM PAIN OR SHAME. AFTER A MOMENT'S REFLECTION, ZAPPLEY REPLIED, "NO."

SUBJ CONTINUED TALKING OF NWBOLTON AND EVENTUALLY SAID HE WAS CONVINCED THAT THERE HAD BEEN SOME FORM OF NWBOLTON INVOLVEMENT IN *THE<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY.> TO ZAPPLEY'S REJOINDER THAT THIS WAS PURE FANTASY, SUBJ ADMITTED THAT HE COULDN'T POINT TO HARD EVIDENCE FOR HIS BELIEF BUT HELD TO IT NONETHELESS. HE ADDED THAT NWBOLTON'S ROLE IN ALLENDE'S OUSTER AND DEATH WAS *ANOTHER BLACK MARK*.

B. WHEN ZAPPLEY ASKED WHY HE WOULD COOPERATE WITH AN ORGANIZATION THAT HE FELT WAS SO TAINTED, SUBJ ANSWERED WITHOUT HESITATION; "I BELIEVE YOUR ORGANIZATION MUST EXIST TO HELP US COMBAT CURRENT EVILS, I SIMPLY ALSO BELIEVE THAT NWBOLTON - OR ELEMENTS OF IT, PERHAPS OUT OF CONTROL - HAS ITSELF DONE EVIL."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

PAGE: 2

MHFNO 95-1435429

SECRET
SENSIND RYBAT

"THINGS IN THE PAST."

3. THE WARNING FLAGS RAISED BY SUBJ'S CONTRADICTORY FEELINGS
   ABOUT NWBOLTON, HAVE-LED-EUR-TO-CHANGE-ITS-PLANS-FOR HIS USE.
   INSTEAD OF USING HIS E-MAIL ACCOUNT AND THE SUB-ACCOUNT (IDEN)
   SPECIFICALLY RESERVED FOR NWBOLTON WITH A SENSITIVE FIELD ASSET
   AS ORIGINALLY PLANNED, HQS WILL RESERVE IT FOR APPLICATIONS OF
   MUCH LESS SENSITIVITY. IT WILL BE MAINTAINED FOR THE NEXT YEAR,
   AS OUR CONTRACT WITH SUBJ STIPULATES AND FOR WHICH HE HAS BEEN
   PAID HIS TAXABLE FEE. BUT AFTER THAT IT MAY BE DROPPED. HIS MOVE
   TO NEW JERSEY SHOULD NOT BE MUCH OF A BURDEN ON NEWARK STATION
   SINCE NORMALLY THE ONLY CONTACT NEEDED WOULD BE TO RECEIVE HIS SIX
   MONTHLY ACCOUNTINGS-AND-REPLENISH_THE_REVOLVING-FUND-FROM-WHICH HE-
   PAYS HIS E-MAIL ACCOUNT'S MONTHLY BILLS.

4. DESPITE THE CHANGES EXPLAINED ABOVE, OUR ORIGINAL URGENT
   REQUEST WAS HANDLED WITH ALACRITY AND SKILL BY OCC/CRG, STAMFORD
   STATION AND C/O JENSON. EUR DIVISION REPEATS ITS THANKS FOR THIS
   SUPPORT AND OFFERS IT COMPLIMENTS TO ALL CONCERNED.

5. FILE: CS-6745, 201 PENDING. INDEX: NONE. DECL OADR DRV
   HUM 1-82.>

RELNO: E228240

ORIG: EUR/CA (MCULGHJ, 32684); AUTH: C/EUR/PLANS; COORD:

EUR/CGT(WARK), EUR/TECH(BETZER); INFO: OCC/CRG., EUR/CA.; _ REL.:.

NR/OPSB(WALTHER) CL BY 370417

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)