2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CHAYES, ABRAM
DCD FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DCD

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 18-06-95      |               | BETH LICHTENFELS         |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONFIDENTIAL

PROF. ΑΞΞAM CHATZS

A-19-91-59

BUSINESS:

Subject is with the following:

A000723 - Earvard Law School, Cambridge, MA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

DCD-459/78
19 April 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: DDO/ISS/IP/EIS

FROM : Ruth Elliff
DCD/FIO/PAO

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
Request (OLC 73-0986/1)

The following material is forwarded in response to subject request:

a. DCD file A-19-91-59 on Abram Chayes (on loan).

b. Documents concerning Monica Kramer and Rita Naman.
(Please excuse the poor quality of some of this material, it was impossible to get a clear reproduction from our microfilm.)

![signature of Ruth Elliff]
Ruth Elliff

Attachments a/s

RELLIFF:wfc
Distribution
0 - Addressee
1 - DCD Chrono
1- Staff A
3 - RElliff
3 - Control

![WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED]

E2 IMPDET CL BY 386090

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

yellow
19-91-59

PES-263-77
31 August 1977

MEMORANDUM TO: Chief, Boston Field Office
Chief, New York Field Office
Chief, San Francisco Field Office
Chief, Syracuse Field Office
Chief, Washington Field Office

FROM: Acting Chief, USSR-EE Collection Group

SUBJECT: Case 64574 - USSR External Policy - Pugwash Conference
Munich, Germany, August 1977

1. Enclosed you will find a list of attendees (Enclosure A) to the Pugwash Conference held in Munich, Germany, in August, and a set of questions (Enclosure B) prepared by the ORPA analysts at our request. Since the original list of attendees contained only the last name and first initial of each US participant, we had to make some educated guesses as to the true identities of many of them. As a result, do not be surprised if some question why we felt they had attended. In many cases, however, there was no question as to the true identity of the source.

2. ORPA has been quite pleased with the reporting generated by their previous requirements. As a result, they have made an extra effort to write even more thought provoking requirements. We feel that the enclosed questions are the best we have sent out to date.

3. Responsive reporting should cite the current CIRL, Objective Ala and KIQ 90. We look forward to receiving your responses.

![signature of Thomas A. Nesser]
THOMAS A. NESSER

Enclosures: As stated above

APBlake/bjp

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

E2 IMPDET CL BY
476500

![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

ENCLOSURE A

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

Abram Chayes A 199159
Harvard University

Carl Djerassi A 49345
Stanford University

Paul Doty A 46309
Harvard University

Bernard T. Feld A 5927
MIT

George B. Kistiakowsky A 6304
Harvard University

Richard N. Rosecrance A124263
Cornell University

Jack P. Ruina A 99072
MIT

Herbert Scoville A157380
McLean, Va.

W. Murray Todd A123586
National Academy of Sciences

John S. Toll A28995
State University of New York
Stony Brook, New York

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS 19-91-59

| FIELD/RESIDENT OFFICE | ORGANIZATION NUMBER | CASE NUMBER    | FORWARDED      | RELEASED          |                      |          |             |             |
| --------------------- | ------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- | -------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| 1234                  | 5678910             | 11 12 13 14 15 | 16 17 18 19 20 | 21 22 23 24 25 26 | 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 | 34 35 36 | 37 38 39 40 | 41 42 43 44 |
| HBOS                  | 64574               | 09146          | 2/665976       | 09236             |                      |          |             |             |

SUBJECT AND AREA
Four Papers by Soviet Scientists on Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Disarmament, the Complete General Ban of Nuclear Tests, and European Security (USSR)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Prof. Abram Chayes
Harvard Law School
Cambridge, MA

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Documentary

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

|                                         | METHOD OF COLLECTION  |                 | EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM | EXCHANGES (COL. 35) |              |                               |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------- |
| INTERVIEW                               | TRIP REPORT           | 1               | 1-EXCHANGE                | 3. COMMERCIAL       |              |                               |
| ![Unordered list marker] OTHER DOCUMENT | OTHER (Specify below) |                 | 2-BILATERAL               | 4. ARTICLE IV       |              |                               |
| DIRECTED TO                             | OSG                   | SREE            | ICG                       | ETF                 | DESK OFFICER | HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS         |
|                                         |                       | ![Check Symbol] |                           |                     | TWebbe.      | Extra copies of documents to: |

FIELD COMMENTS

1.  John Souders OCI/SRE 7631
2.  Martha Mautner
    STATE/INR/DDR/RSE/SEY 4841
3.  Glenn Buchan OSR SF25
4.  William Chapin
    STATE/INR/DDR/PAT 6638

| MBO                                                         | KIO   | GRACE             | INDIVIDUAL NO. | MA          | TD  | COUNTRY |
| ----------------------------------------------------------- | ----- | ----------------- | -------------- | ----------- | --- | ------- |
| 45 46 47 48 49 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 | 65 66 | 67 68 69 70 71 72 | 73 74 75 76    | 77 78 79 80 |     |         |
| AIA-06-01                                                   |       |                   |                |             |     |         |

F.O. CHIEF DESK OFFICER BRANCH SE
John H. Mahoney Tom Webbe

FORM 25 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS CONFIDENTIAL (EZ IMPDET CL BY 306687) (120-411)
7-75


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# CONFIDENTIAL

Domestic Collection Division

Foreign Intelligence Information Report

COUNTRY: USSR

DCD REPORT NO.: OO-B-321/26659-76

SUBJECT: Four Papers by Soviet Scientists on Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, Disarmament, the Complete General Ban of Nuclear Tests, and European Security

DATE DISTR.: Sept. 23, 1976

NO. PAGES: 1

REFERENCES: DCD Case: 6,574 C-JT-6-50174

RODATE OF INFO.: August 1976

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Documentary

[Available in CRS Central Libraries Division, Document Services Branch are four papers presented by Soviet scientists at the 26th Pugwash Conference on Disarmament, Security and Development, Muhlhausen, German Democratic Republic, 26-31 August 1976. The papers are as follows: (1) "On Complete and General Ban of Nuclear Weapon Tests" by L.S. Seneiko of the USSR Institute of the USA and Canada; (2) "Implementation of the Agreements of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe" by Professor V.G. Trukhanovsky, Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO); (3) "Concerning the Question of Atomic Power Energetics and Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons" by Academician V.S. Enelyanov; and (4) "Pugwash and Development" by Academician V.A. Engelhardt - UNCLASSIFIED.]

--end--

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL
(when filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

| FIELD/ RESIDENT OFFICE | ORGANIZATION NUMBER | CASE NUMBER    | FORWARDED      | REPORT SERIES & NO.          | ATTACH                 | RELESAED |
| ---------------------- | ------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------- | -------- |
| 1 2 3 4                | 5 6 7 8 9-10        | 11 12 13 14 15 | 16 17 18 19 20 | MO. DAY YR 21 22 23 24 25 26 | X 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 | 34 35 36 |
| HBOS                   | 64574               | 09146          | 2651476        | MO. DAY YR 40 41 42 43 44    | 09230                  |          |

19-91-59

SUBJECT AND AREA
Reports of the Four Working Groups at the 26th Pugwash Conference

(USSR/INTERNATIONAL)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Prof. Abram Chayes
Harvard Law School
Cambridge, MA

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Documentary

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

| METHOD OF COLLECTION | EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM | EXCHANGES (COL. 35) |               |
| -------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
| INTERVIEW            | TRIP REPORT               | 1-EXCHANGE          | 3. COMMERCIAL |
| OTHER DOCUMENT       | OTHER (Specify below)     | 2-BILATERAL         | 4. ARTICLE IV |

DIRECTED TO

| OSG | SREE | ICG | ETF | DESK OFFICER |
| --- | ---- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| X   |      |     |     | Webber       |

FIELD COMMENTS

Headquarters comments:
Extra copies
of documents to:

@ JOHN SOUDERS OCI/SRE 7631
@ MARTHA MAUTNER STATE/INR/POR/RSE/SON 4841
@ WAYNE LIMBERG EPR/USSR 5632
@ GLENN BUCHAN OSR SF25
@ WILLIAM CHAPIN STATE/INR/DDR/PMT 6638

|     | INDIVIDUAL NO.                               | 45 TYPE ODE | 46 *NOT DISSEMINATED |
| --- | -------------------------------------------- | ----------- | -------------------- |
| 1   | GRAPHICS, MAPS, PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, CT-ER |             |                      |
| 2   | SUBJECT*                                     |             |                      |
| 3   | 47 48 49 50                                  |             |                      |
| 4   | O E C O                                      |             |                      |
| 5   | NO. PROCESSING ELEMENT                       |             |                      |
| 6   | 51 52                                        |             |                      |

| AIB-06-01    | INDIVIDUAL NO. | MA             | COUNTRY           |     |          |
| ------------ | -------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | --- | -------- |
| MBO 58 59 60 | KIO 61 62 63   | GRACE 64 65 66 | 67 68 69 70 71 72 | 73  | 74 75 76 |

| Alar X6 el | Sohn H. Mahoney | 6166 | Desk Officer Tom Wattes |

FORM 25
7-75

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-1-I-A-L

Domestic Collection Division
Foreign Intelligence Information Report

COUNTRY USSR/International

DCD REPORT NO. OO-B-321/26514-76

SUBJECT Reports of the Four Working Groups at the 26th Pugwash Conference

DATE DISTR. Sept. 23, 1976

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES DCD Case: 64,574
C-JT-6-50174

DATE OF INFO. August 1976

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Documentary

[Available in CRS Central Libraries Division, Document Services Branch are copies of the reports of the four Working Groups at the 26th Pugwash Conference on Disarmament, Security and Development held at Mulhausen, German Democratic Republic, 26-31 August 1976. The subjects discussed in each of the Working Group reports are as follows: "Problems of Limiting and Reducing Strategic Nuclear Armaments and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction," "Controlling the Spread of Nuclear Armaments," "European Security and Co-operation Issues," and "Development and Security" - UNCLASSIFIED.]

- end -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

The Aaron E. Norman Fund, Inc., New York, New York

Purposes and Activities: Interests include the improvement of inter-cultural and inter-racial relations; the protection of civil liberties; the prevention and treatment of emotional disturbances, etc.

Norman Fund channeled the following amounts of CIA money to CIA projects:

1961 - $15,000 to American Society for African Culture (AMSAC)

1962 - $10,000 to African-American Institute (AAI)

1963 - $15,000 to Pan American Foundation (PAF). (This represented a part of the total budget for PAF in 1963. Virtually all PAF funds in 1963 were used for grants to individual recipients of Agency operational interest. No domestic organizations received any of the funds.)

1964 - $10,000 to International Development Foundation (IDF)

Norman Fund gave its own money to the following CIA projects:

1962 - $7,500 to American Society for African Culture (AMSAC)

1962 - $3,000 to African Research Foundation

1962 - $3,100 to U.S. National Student Association (USNSA)

We hold copies of Schedule of Ordinary Grants of the Norman Fund for 1962 and 1963. These documents confirm the figures and the recipients cited in the Drew Pearson column. No CIA funds were given for other than the four grants listed above.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

20 FEB 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Alleged CIA Use of the Jersan Foundation and the J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. to Pass Funds to Organizations Involving Mr. Leo Cherne

REFERENCE: New York Times Article of February 19, 1976 by Mr. John M. Crewdson, Same Subject

1. Reference reports that the President of the Norman Foundation, Mr. Frank Weil, said that he was approached by a "mysterious gentleman" from the CIA in 1953 or 1954 and asked to pass about $15,000 in Government funds to the International Rescue Committee of which Mr. Leo Cherne was then Chairman of the Board. CIA files reveal that the Norman Foundation (formerly the Aaron L. Norman Fund, Inc.) was never used to pass CIA funds to the International Rescue Committee as implied in reference. Attached is the record of CIA funds passed through the Aaron L. Norman Fund, Inc. and bonafide grants made by the funds to CIA projects. It is noted that in 1961 the Norman Fund passed $15,000 of CIA funds to the American Society for African Culture (ASPAC). Possibly Mr. Weil confused this funding for African activities with the International Rescue Committee.

2. It is true as reported in the article and sourced to an executive of the J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc., that the Fund supported a single Agency program in the 1950s. This program was the Institute of International Labor Research, Inc. (IILR) an Agency-controlled non-profit organization active in the Latin American labor field. CIA's use of the J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. to fund the IILR terminated in 1964 when use of the Kaplan Fund was exposed in Congressional hearings of the Patman Committee on Tax-exempt Foundations. CIA files confirm that the J.M. Kaplan Fund, Inc. made in 1958 a bonafide grant to the International Rescue Committee for Czech refugee relief. There is no evidence that CIA funds were passed to the Kaplan Fund for any other purpose than support of the IILR.

3. Although there is no evidence that CIA ever directly or indirectly funded the International Rescue Committee or Freedom House, Mr. Cherne personally and through his firm, Research Institute of America, Inc., actively assisted the Agency in the past. A 300 agent, Joel A.

12 DORSET
CL BY 959779

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

SHALLOWAY (P) currently in Paris was provided cover in Paris, France from 1954-1955 by the Research Institute of America, Inc. During operations azafat Cuba in 1959-60 Mr. Cherne was active in both an FI and CA capacity. Re was also subsequently a DCD source.

/s/ ERICH W. ISEISTEAD

ERICH W. ISEISTEAD
Chief, Cover and Commercial Staff

Attachment: Fending Record

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Aise (handcarried)
1 - 18382 (Shalloway) file
1 - C/CCS
1 - LPCORSET/46 - FS-1121 (Aaron E. Norman Fund)
1 - MD-296 (International Rescue Committee)
1 - 201-76662 (Cherne, Leo)
2 - CCS/PRG chrono & board

DDO/C/CCS/PRG/GWAllen:ekw (20 February 1976)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET
Classification

# JFK MICROFILM FILE SUMMARY

SUMMARY; REEL 4, FOLDER(S) 3, CREATED 02/07/94 by ES

SUBJECT OF FOLDER: Abram Chayes

201 NUMBER, IF ANY

INCLUSIVE DATES OF FILE MATERIAL Undated THRU APRIL 1978

RELEVANCE OR NON-RELEVANCE TO OSWALD & JFK ASSASSINATION:

Neither the information or time frame is relevant. See Summary below.

REASON OR ASSUMED REASON FOR INCLUSION IN THIS COLLECTION.

A review of the HSCA volumes did not surface an "Abram" Chayes but an "Abraham" Chayes, a legal advisor to the State Department, who maintained that at the time Oswald received his visa to enter Russia from the Soviet Embassy in Helsinik, normally at least 1 week would elapse between the time of a tourist's application and the issuance of a vias. It would appear that Abram and Abraham are not identical to each other. Betty Lichtenfeld of the HSCA reviewed the file on 17 August 1978.

SUMMARY OF INFORMATION WITHIN FILE:

Harvard Law School professor who attended a Pugwash Conference in Munich in 1977.

CIA/U. S. GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP:

None.

PAGES OF NON-JFK-RELATED MATERIAL: 8


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)