# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 92-7827323
SENSIND:
PAGE: 1

STAFF
CONF: CIC/CEX-3 INFO: C/ORMO, CICEDC, CIDORECORD, DOCHRONO, DOOPS,
MDSX, ODPD, ORMS/CI, FILE, C/CIC, CE/RBI, CED/CIC, CETF/W-5, CETF/W/BAL,
CIC/CEG, CIC/CEI, CIC/CLFL, CIC/EOB, CIC/ISB, CIC/OG-4, CIC/PRB, CIC/TA,
DC/CE, DC/CIC, DDO-2 (28/P)

92 7827323 ASR PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 324829
TOT: 041754Z APR 92

STAFF 041754Z DIRECTOR 324829
TO: VILNIUS.

FROM: CIC/CEX INFO CIC/PRB, CETF/W/BAL.

SLUGS: WNINTEL TAZZACEX LWOPUS

SUBJECT: WASHINGTON TIMES ARTICLE RE KGB OFFER TO HOLLYWOOD

REF:
A. DIRECTOR 283424 (92 7575137)
B. VILNIUS 10599 (92 7801082)
C. VILNIUS 10578 (92 7735236)

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: FYI.

2. FOLLOWING ARTICLE APPEARED IN THE 27 MARCH EDITION OF THE "WASHINGTON TIMES:"
   "THE KGB SPIES WHO CAME IN FOR THE GOLD
   "MOSCOW: ON THE 'STREET OF TRUTH,' RETIRED KGB SECRET AGENTS CAME TO TELL ALL.

"WITH NO HINT OF SHAME, THE COLD WAR SPY MASTERS SAID THEIR MEMOIRS CAN BE HAD FOR CASH--ON EVERYTHING FROM<LEE HARVEY OSWALD>TO KIM PHILBY AND THE SPY RING THAT STOLE THE SECRETS OF THE ATOM BOMB FROM AMERICA.

"'THE IDEA THAT ALL PEOPLE WHO ENGAGE IN ESPIONAGE ARE VERY RICH IS SIMPLY NOT TRUE,' SAID ANATOLY PRIVALOV, VICE CHAIRMAN OF THE ASSOCIATION OF KGB VETERANS OF FOREIGN ESPIONAGE, OR FIVA, AS THE RUSSIANS CALL IT.

"MR. PRIVALOV AND THREE COLLEAGUES FROM THE ELITE OF KGB ESPIONAGE CAME NOT OUT OF THE COLD BUT OUT OF THE RAIN WEDNESDAY TO THE OFFICES OF KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA ON ULITSA PRAVDA (TRUTH STREET).

"THEY TOLD REPORTS OF THEIR PLANS TO ENTER THE CAPITALIST WORLD THAT THEY TRIED TO VERY HARD TO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 92-7827323

SECRET

SENSIND

UNDERMINE DURING THEIR CLOAK-AND-DAGGER DAYS.

"FEAR OF POVERTY HAD SPURRED THE RETIRED SPIES TO
SIGN UP WITH THE HOLLYWOOD FIRM ENTERTAINMENT AND
COMMUNICATIONS HOLDINGS ASSOCIATION TO PEDDLE THEIR
INSIDE HISTORY OF THE COLD WAR FOR FILMS, MINISERIES AND
DOCUDRAMAS.

"'DUE TO THE PRESENT CONFUSION IN OUR COUNTRY, MANY
OF THE VETERANS ARE IN A VERY DIFFICULT (FINANCIAL)
SITUATION,' MR. PRIVALOV SAID.

"OLEG NECHIPERENKO, A 25-YEAR KGB VETERAN, SAID HIS
FORTHCOMING BOOK WILL GIVE DETAILS OF HIS TWO MEETINGS
WITH<LEE HARVEY OSWALD>IN MEXICO CITY TWO MONTHS BEFORE
OSWALD SHOT<PRESIDENT KENNEDY.>

"THE OSWALD MEETINGS TOOK PLACE SEPT. 27-28, 1963,
ON THE INITIATIVE OF OSWALD, SAID MR. NECHIPERENKO, THEN
KGB STATION CHIEF IN MEXICO CITY.

"'HIS MOOD WAS BAD,' SAID MR. NECHIPERENKO.

"BUT, HE TEASED, 'THE OSWALD HE MET IN MEXICO CITY
WAS THE SAME ONE WHO WAS IN DALLAS.

"ANOTHER NECHIPERENKO TIDBIT: TWO OTHER KGB MEN
WERE PRESENT AT THE INTERVIEW AND AN OPERATIVE IN MOSCOW
WAS KEPT ABREAST OF THE DISCUSSIONS.

"EXHIBITING FAMILIARITY WITH OLIVER STONE'S MOVIE
<'JFK,'>MR. NECHIPERENKO SAID HE WOULD AGREE WITH 'SOME OF
THE CONCLUSIONS OF JAMES GARRISON,' BUT ONLY BASED ON THE
FORMER NEW ORLEANS DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S BOOK, NOT ON ANY
EVIDENCE.

"IF HE HAD THE DOCUMENTS, MR. NECHIPERENKO SAID, HE
COULD GIVE A BETTER VERDICT. OF COURSE, NO TALK OF SUCH
AN<ASSASSINATION>TOOK PLACE IN MEXICO CITY AND THERE WAS
NO ENCOURAGEMENT OF SUCH A DEED, HE SAID.

"MR. NECHIPERENKO HAS BEEN TROTTED OUT BEFORE BY THE
KGB ALONG WITH YURI MODIN, THE HANDLER OF KIM PHILBY, THE
BRITISH MASTER SPY WHO WORKED FOR THE SOVIETS. PHILBY
DIED IN MOSCOW IN 1988.

"THE NEW FACE SHOWN WEDNESDAY WAS ANATOLY YAZKOV,
CODE-NAMED 'YAKOVLEV' IN HIS WORLD WAR II YEARS IN
AMERICA WHEN HE HELPED RUN THE SPY RING THAT GAVE JOSEF
STALIN THE ATOM BOMB. IT WAS ONE OF THE MOST SUCCESSFUL
ESPIONAGE PENETRATIONS IN HISTORY.

"BUT MR. YAZKOV, BEYOND ADMITTING THAT HE WORKED OUT
OF THE RUSSIAN CONSULATE AT 7 E. 61ST ST. IN NEW YORK
CITY, ACROSS FROM THE HOTEL PIERRE, WAS SINGULARLY

SECRET

PAGE: 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 13-00000

MHFNO 92-7827323

SECRET

SENSIND

PAGE: 3

RETICENT.

"ASKED IF JULIUS AND ETHEL ROSENBERG, WHO WERE
EXECUTED IN 1953 FOR PASSING ATOMIC SECRETS, WERE INDEED
GUILTY, MR. YAZKOV SAID HE PREFERRED 'NOT TO TALK ABOUT
PEOPLE WHO TOOK PART IN THIS OR MIGHT HAVE TAKEN PART IN
THIS.

"IT WAS NOT THE BEST ADVERTISEMENT FOR HIS
FORTHCOMING WORK.

"WHEN ASKED IF HE MISSED THE COLD WAR, MR. YAZKOV
REPLIED, 'THANK GOD THAT IT IS OVER.'

"UNCONTRITE, HE INSISTED HE WAS 'NOT SPYING AGAINST
AMERICA, BUT IN SUPPORT OF THE SOVIET UNION IN ORDER TO
BALANCE THE TWO POWERS.'

"ABOUT 5,000 FORMER KGB OPERATIVES ARE MEMBERS OF
THE ASSOCIATION.

"'WHEN A PERSON LEAVES HIS POST, HE IS LEFT ALL
ALONE,' SAID MR. PRIVALOV, A 42-YEAR KGB VETERAN. 'SO IN
ORDER THAT PEOPLE WILL NOT FEEL THEMSELVES ABANDONED, WE
DECIDED TO UNITE AND TO ORGANIZE A CLUB WHERE VETERANS
COULD COME TO RELAX, TO DRINK A BEER OR A WHISKEY, AS THE
ASSOCIATION OF THE CIA DOES.

"INSTEAD OF FEELING SORRY FOR THEMSELVES, THE FORMER
CLOAK-AND-DAGGER MEN WILL WORK ON A FILM ABOUT THE ATOM
BOMB SPY RING; A TV MINISERIES ABOUT U.S. NAVY EMPLOYEE
GLENN MICHAEL SOUTHER, A SOVIET SPY WHO COMMITTED SUICIDE
IN MOSCOW IN 1989; AND A DOCUMENTARY ON OSWALD'S BIZARRE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE KGB.

"DOCUDRAMAS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF LEON TROTSKY AND
THE CASE OF NATO OFFICIAL ROBERT LEE JOHNSON, KNOWN AS
'THE AMERICAN KIM PHILBY,' ARE ALSO PLANNED."

B. FOR THE RECORD, WE HAVE NOTED THAT SOME SIMILAR
THREADS RUN THROUGH BOTH THIS ARTICLE AND THE LWOPUS CASE.

A. THE TIMING OF THE OFFER BY THE FIVA GROUP ON
WEDNESDAY, 25 MARCH, FALLS DIRECTLY INTO THE MIDDLE OF THE
WINDOW ESTABLISHED BY LWOPUS (24-26 MARCH). ALSO, LWOPUS
NOTED THAT IF THERE WERE ANY DOUBTS ABOUT GETTING THE
MANUSCRIPT-ACROSS THE LITHUANIAN BORDER, HE WOULD RESORT TO A

RESERVE VARIANT BUT WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF OTHER PARTIES,
I.E., HE WOULD APPROACH SOMEONE ELSE.

B. LWOPUS SENT A SAMPLE OF HIS WORK TO US NOT FOR
PUBLICATION BUT FOR A CRITICAL READING. HE STATED THAT IF A
PUBLISHING HOUSE SHOWED INTEREST IN HIS MANUSCRIPT, AGREEMENT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MHFNO 92-7827323
SENSIND SECRET PAGE: 4

COULD BE REACHED REGARDING JOINT ACTIONS AND MUTUAL LEGAL
COMMITMENTS ALTHOUGH-MONETARY-COMPENSATION-IS-IMPLIED. LWOPUS DOES NOT MENTION ANY SPECIFIC SUM, RATHER HE SUGGESTS
THAT HE IS WILLING TO ENTER INTO SOME SORT OF CONTRACTUAL
AGREEMENT. THIS IS COMPATIBLE WITH WHAT THE FIVA GROUP
APPEARS TO BE ATTEMPTING. THE FIVA GROUP STATES IN NO
UNCERTAIN TERMS THAT THEY NEED MONEY.

C. IN EACH CASE THERE APPEARS TO BE A LARGE VOLUME
OF MATERIAL. LWOPUS STATED THAT UP TO NOW HE HAS PREPARED
SEVEN FOLDERS ON FOURTEEN COUNTRIES AND FORESEES WRITING 22-
25 SMALL BOOKS OR EPISODES ON DIFFERENT COUNTRIES. THE FIVA
GROUP ALSO IMPLIES THAT A LARGE VOLUME OF MATERIAL EXISTS.
LWOPUS CLAIMS THAT HIS WRITINGS WERE BASED ONLY ON DOCUMENTARY
SOURCES. THE FIVA GROUP MAKES NO SUCH CLAIM, BUT IMPLIES THAT
THEIR MATERIAL IS FROM PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE.

D. BASED UPON THE GEOGRAPHIC DIVERSITY OF THE
MATERIAL AND THE TIME SPAN IT ENCOMPASSES, WE SUSPECT THE
LWOPUS MANUSCRIPT MIGHT BE A JOINT EFFORT. IF IT IS NOT A
JOINT EFFORT, COLLECTION MUST HAVE BEEN GOING ON FOR A LONG
TIME BY SOMEONE WITH EXCELLENT ACCESS TO ARCHIVAL MATERIAL.
THE FIVA GROUP IS A COMMON EFFORT OF AT LEAST FOUR (AND
PROBABLY MORE) RETIRED KGB OFFICERS.

E. LWOPUS NOTED THAT HE IS CONCERNED FOR HIS SAFETY
AND THAT OF HIS FAMILY. HIS FAILURE TO SHOW AT THE EMBASSY IN
VILNIUS DURING THE WINDOW MIGHT BE THE RESULT OF HIS CONCERN.
AMBASSADOR JOHNSON STATED THAT HE HAD ALREADY ALERTED THE
EMBASSY, INCLUDING THE LITHUANIAN FSN IN HIS OFFICE, THAT THEY
SHOULD BE ALERT FOR THE RETURN OF THE LWOPUS MESSENGER. IF
LWOPUS BECAME AWARE THAT THE LITHUANIAN EMPLOYEE HAD BEEN TOLD
TO WATCH FOR THE MESSENGER, HE MAY HAVE ELECTED NOT TO RETURN.
IN SUCH CASE, ASSUMING THAT YURASOV IS CONNECTED WITH THE FIVA
GROUP, THEIR OFFER TO THE HOLLYWOOD FIRM MAY BE AN ALTERNATE
PLAN.

F. IN EACH CASE, THE MATERIAL PRESENTED WOULD HAVE
APPEAL FOR THE GROUP TO WHICH IT IS OFFERED, I.E. THE OFFER
TO US OF INTELLIGENCE RELATED SNIPPETS REGARDING IN-PLACE
AGENTS VS THE OFFER TO THE ENTERTAINMENT INDUSTRY OF THE MORE
SPECTACULAR CASES THAT WOULD APPEAL TO A MASS AUDIENCE.

G. THE NAME OF YAZKOV (TRUE NAME ANATOLIY YAKOVLEV)
IS SIMILAR TO YURASOV. ALTHOUGH IT IS CERTAINLY NOT TRUE IN
EVERY CASE, THE FORMER SOVIETS FREQUENTLY USED COVER NAMES
SIMILAR TO OR WHICH HAD THE SAME FIRST LETTER AS THEIR OWN
NAME.

H. LWOPUS IS OBVIOUSLY HEDGING HIS BETS. HE ALSO
MENTIONED THAT HE HAD MADE TWO_PREVIOUS UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPTS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MHFNO 92-7827323

SENSIND

TO CONTACT US. ALTHOUGH WE HAVE BEEN UNABLE TO CONFIRM EITHER OF THESE ATTEMPTS, IT IS NOTEWORTHY THAT THE MANUSCRIPT HE PROVIDED TO US WAS A CARBON. BASED ON THE QUALITY, WE BELIEVE THAT IT WAS NOT CARBON NUMBER ONE.

4. WE ARE CURRENTLY CHECKING THE FILES OF THE FOUR FIVA OFFICERS TO ASCERTAIN WHETHER THEIR BACKGROUNDS MIGHT OFFER THEM ACCESS TO THE SAME INFORMATION THAT LWOPUS PROVIDED. WE ALSO PLAN TO COMPARE THE MATERIAL WE RECEIVED FROM LWOPUS TO SEE IF THE FILES OF THESE FOUR OFFICERS INDICATE THAT THEY HAD CONTACTS SIMILAR TO ANY OF THOSE MENTIONED IN THE LWOPUS MATERIAL. WE WILL ADVISE YOU OF THE RESULTS OF OUR RESEARCH.

5. WELCOME VILNIUS COMMENTS.

6. FILE: 201-1478016. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>
   ORIG CIC/CEX (BORGRINK); _ COORD: C/CIC/CEG_(ROBINSON),
   C/CIC/PRB (BANNERMAN), CETF/W/BAL (MILLER) ; AUTH: C/CIC/CEX (SANDERS); REL: C/CETF/W (MORRIS). CL BY 0710601.

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)