# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

14-00000
104-10527-10212

**SECRET**

6153
200-106-

27 53 21 502

SAS CEN

ROUTINE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SAS O

INFO: CC, C/DCI, DDP, ADCP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EE 4, WE 4, NE 4, FE 6, WH 7, (POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRLN 5, PARI 5, ATHE 6, ALL OTHER CIA'S 3)

65387

MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE

PERUMEN ZRPRIMA

LOND PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR

SOLE

CABLE SEC: IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)

FRAN PROB BONN HAMB BRLN MUNI VIEN ATHE

BERN GNVA CAIE BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP

MEXI MRID SAGO MONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA

QUIT GUAT SETO MELS TOKY BONO HAVE BARC

HELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE

RELEASING OFFICEB

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICERS

**SECRET**

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG: D. FONIS:jd
SAS/TO2
EXT: 6153
DATE: 21 NOV. 63

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE INICS FILE NO.: 200-120-47

12-47
ROUTING
1.
4.
2.
5
3
6

22 Nov. 63 17 832

TO: CERTAIN STATIONS AND BASES

FROM: DIRECTOR

SIG CEN
DEFERRED
ROUTINE

CONF:

INFO:

NO MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE INFO

PBRIUMEN ZRPRIMA
REF: DIR 22218

CITE DIR 85387

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED HOS REVIEW OF ZRPRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS THAT KUDARI EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGER WARRANTED. MAIN REASON

2. FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECHNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM

FIDEL'S
HAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAI/ORIGINAL

OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECHS FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH OUR FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM ABOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUBARK SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECHS INTO THE VARIOUS BIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL FROM HAVA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BUREAUCRATIC INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

CONT, .

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE TWO

INFO

CITE DIR 85387

AND PROBABLE LOSS OF INTER ST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO
HIMSELF, THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FEDM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN
PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO
APPLICATIONS, LABU DELAY IN GETTING CORD BACK FROM HAVANA AND
SMALL NUMBER OF TECES ULTIMATELY BIARD LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN
INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM JAVA, WHICH RUNS
SIX TO HIME KONTES HAS COST, CUBANS NUMBER OF TECES NEO VE
INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER
JOBS.

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE
   TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZRPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION
   INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. -WISH STRESS /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY
   WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS
   TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR
   MUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE
   TO HIKE NEEC ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR
   TO GRPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ALLE UDARD 100
   ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TOPLOIT THEM IN SAME HANNER

ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE THREE

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 85387

IN THIS CONNECTION WE NOTE THAT MOST PERUMEN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE
FOR RECRUITING TECHS TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF
APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY
ACCEPTALLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION
OR REJECT IT.

4. RESPONSE OF MOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING ZRPRIMA HAS
   BEEN HOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY
   QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECENICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED
   UNABLE OR UNFILLING TO ACCEPT. KUBARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE
   EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT
   ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS MARELY REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION
   AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR OWN GOALS.

5. DISCONTINUE USE ZRPRIMA SLUG AND FILE 200-120-47.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: Cable pre-dates CS files. Copy may be seen in CIA
reference file.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

UNG
CATE

FROM: DIRECTOR
INFO

PAGE FOUR

INFO

SAS/LOB
SAS/NOB
WZ/5
C/WE
AC/RE
C/WE
C/WE

NO INGEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO

ROUTINE
CITE

35387

Ken

RC Locke
Thomas F. Thiede
Fathman
W. Wood
Olligcie


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)