# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

APPROVAL WORK RECORD

27 January 1932, Moron, Province of Camaguey, Coba

CI/CA FILE NO.
0-32064
SECURITY OFFICE FILE NO.
201-267137
210838
TRUE NAME
CRYPTONYM
AMBIDDY/1
ARTDE Buesa, Manuel Francis
AKA-Manuel Francisco Perfecto Seruando ART/MEB

NAME CHECK & INVESTIGATIVE RECORD

| CHECK (√)      | INITIAL | DATE        |            | CHECK (√) | DATE            | TO         |     |
| -------------- | ------- | ----------- | ---------- | --------- | --------------- | ---------- | --- |
| ✓              | Glo     | 20 May60    | P.O.A      | ✓         | 24mar60         | WH/4/Kil   |     |
|                |         |             |            |           | reinst 28 Oct60 | uH/4/      |     |
| ✓              | Jwo     | 30 SEP 1963 |            |           | rein 3ank3      | SAS        |     |
|                |         |             | O.A.       | ✓         | 266 6           | WH/4/      |     |
| 99756          | NPR     | Fly.        |            |           | raine           | 30 sept 63 | SAS |
| GREEN LIST     |         | Noell       |            |           |                 |            |     |
|                |         | 24 mar 60   |            |           |                 |            |     |
|                |         | ata         |            |           |                 |            |     |
|                |         | 28 Marteo   |            |           |                 |            |     |
| RI TRACES      | NDI     |             | C.S.A.     |           |                 |            |     |
| O 8 DIV TRACES | NDI     |             | P.C.S.A.   |           |                 |            |     |
| FIELD TRACES   | NI OF V |             | P.P:A.     |           |                 |            |     |
|                | ND      | Swo         | Jou '63    |           |                 |            |     |
| S.O. INDICES   | N       | 24 Mare     | PROP: APP. |           |                 |            |     |
| P.B.I INDICES  | NIC     |             | C.N.C.     |           |                 |            |     |
| S.O. IN.       | NIC     | June 60     | COMMENTS   |           |                 |            |     |
| COMMENTS       |         |             |            |           |                 |            |     |


CASE OFFICER

Mayb

(Joseph Mascolo)

DIVISION

4

SAS

EXTENSION

2971


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Office of Security Investigative
# Reports
![background image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TO : WH/COG

ATTN:

SUBJECT: ARTIME Buesa, Manuel Francis

REPLY REQUESTED

X VES

NO

DATE

4 Aug 72 pm

LETTER NO

C-82064 /201-267437

FROM: CI/OA Paul Marine, 2B11, x1888

(1) A review of CI/OA records reflects that Subject was of interest
to WH/L/PA(SAS) in 1963; CA total 2 Feb. 61 was Reinstated 30 Sept. 1963.

(2) CI/OA requests that the responsible desk infom CI/OA by reply whether this case is still active, or whether CI/OA may cancel and retire its folder.



TO : CI/OA

FROM : AWA/c/05

SUBJECT: ARTIME Buesa Manuel Fra

(1) Case is:

a. Active ( ) Circle one: CSC, CSA, CA.

b. Inactive (∞)

(2) CI/OA may/mamet cancel and retire Subject ille.

Lee & Paran

ACTING Chief. CI/OA SIGNATURE

17 Aug 72

CANCELLED COPY TO SECURITY 9 AUG 1972


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

JOHN M. BURKE: ghd
WIH/COG/OPS
7144/1819
7 JAN 71

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 151

SECRET

ROUTING AND INITIALS - SEEN BY
C-82064

-BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

MR:
WHE
FILE VR. BURN, Clips, clip, F1

SECRET

WH/MIAMI
030071 21 292
CITE DIRECTOR 10937.1

1. FORMER JMWAVE CONTRACT AGENT NIGEL P. YASUINAS

(IDEN FOLLOWS) CONTACTED HIS JMWAVE CASE OFFICER, NOW AT
HQS, BY TELEPHONE ON 5 JAN AND REQUESTED THAT SOMEONE FROM
WH/MIAMI CONTACT.HIM. CLAIMED TO BE IN CONTACT WITH AMBIDDY-1
WHO WANTED TO GET MESSAGE TO JKLANCE ABOUT SOME FORM OF
FOREIGN HARRASSMENT OF AMBEDDY-1. ALSO CLAIMED TO HAVE
WHAT APPEARED TO HIM TO BE SIGNIFICANT INFO ON CIENFUEGOS
FROM REFUGEE SOURCE OR SOURCES WHO CONCEALED IT FROM JMOPAL
SCREENERS.

2. NO FILE. GP-1.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of William V. Broe]
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

![signature of Wesley L. Laybourne]
WESLEY L. LAYBOURNE
AC/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

JOHN M. BURKE
WH/COG
7144/1819
7 JAN 71

BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

WHE FILE VR. elon cilere cip, Fl

SECRET
E0171 21 292

WH/MIAMI
RE DIR 100371

C.76331
10037.2

1. IDEN IS RUBEN MARTINEZ, 17240 S. W. 89 COURT,
   MIAMI, FLORIDA 33157. TELEPHONE 305-233-7894. EMPLOYED
   BY PROVIDENT MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY, MIAMI.

2. NO FILE. GP-1.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of william v brok]
WILLIAM V. BROK
C/WHD

![signature of wesley l. laybourne]
WESLEY L. LAYBOURNE
AC/WH/COG

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO:HIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

### Al Uchade:cb
PT. WH/2/ID
7163/1946
Arc: 9 October 1970

C. 82064

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET

SECRET

DO BASE NEW YORK, TEGUCIGALPA

INFO MANAGUA WH/MIAMI

12070 16 52

CITE DIRECTOR 076615

13 OCT 1970

REF: TEGUCIGALPA 9118 (IN 179726)

1. UNLESS DO BASE NEW-YORK-W5SHT.3 CONTAGIY HOS SEES NO NEED (AMBIDDY-1) CONTACT, KEYORK

2. FILE 201-267437.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment: *COS Tegucigalpa met AMBIDDY-1 in Managua 4 Oct.
A/l asked by SAMOZA to join Nicaraguan delegation to UN Assembly as special advisor. Defer to Has. contact AMBIDDY-1.

/DO/I/B2 Bob Baker (Telcoord)

C/WH/COC

C/WH/2/N

C/WH/2

wn/cos/ors

JOHN MARKHAM
C/DOI/2

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

FABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
FLABONET NOTIFIE

ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES

REPRC 20.3 CYPRU
DDEL.
CLASPY TO CS FLE C.
BREF TO CS FLE
FILE RO RETURN TO

C-82064
ROUTING AND/OR CHITLALS-GEEN DV

BABY 23
ACTION UNIT
WH8
ACTION NO
402
PER
-260
FILE, VR RILAN, DOP ADDP CL, a. lops CalDA, FIZ,5006

SECRET 1417832 OCT 69 CITE MANAGUA 7158

DIRECTOR INFO SAN SALVADOR, TEGUCIGALPA, PORT AU PRINCE,
WH/MIAMI

140ст 65 № 6535 Г
AMBIDDY

REF: A. MANAGUA 7941 (IN 01386)

B. MANAGUA 7859 (107442 15 OCT 1969

C. MAHAGUA 7869 (IN 10406)

D. DIRECTOR 39886

E. MANAGUA 7134(1~ 49758)

1. COS MET WITH AMBIDDY-15 NIGHT 13 OCTOBER. HE REPORTED
   ON DEVELOPMENTS OF REFS AS FOLLOWS: AS AMBIDDY WAS PREPARING
   LEAVE FOR SALVADOR IN JULY HE WAS VISITED BY SALVADORAN
   HUMBERTO RODEZNO (PHONETIC) WHO HAD LONG SHOPPING LIST OF
   ARMS AND AMMUNITION. AMBIDDY EXPLAINED THAT HE COULD NOT
   GET INVOLVED IN ANY ARMS EXPORT MATTERS, THAT HE IS WLL
   KNOWN AS PBRUMEN PATRIOT AND DOES NOT WISH CHANGE IMAGE FOR
   THAT OF ARMS DEALER OR SOLDIER OF FORTUNE. RODEZNO SAID XE
   ALREADY IN TOUCH WITH AN AMERICAN IN MIAMI WHO WAS GOING TO
   FURNISH 30-06 AMMO AT TEN CENTS A ROUND, SHIP IT FROM INTER-
   ARMCO IN VIRGINIA TO CANADA FOR ONWARD SHIPMENT TO SALVADOR.
   AMBIDDY WARNED RODEZ NO THAT THE AMERICAN, WHOSE NAME WAS NOT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

PAGE 2 MANAGUA 7158 S E C R E T
GIVEN, WOLD PROBABLY REPORT HIM TO FBI, CIA, BORDER PATROL, "OR TO THE BOY SCOURTS". AMBIDDY THEN BROKE OFF CONTACT WITH RODEZNO AND DECIDED THERE NO REASON TRAVEL TO SALVADOR.

2. TWO DAYS LATER RICARDO ZUNIGA OF HONDURAS APPEARED IN MIAMI AND CONTACTED AMBIDDY. HE ALSO HAD LONG SHOPPING LIST RANGING FROM SMALL ARMS TO ONE THOUSAND POUND BOMB. MEETING TOOK PLACE IN DUPONT PLAZA HOTEL AND ZUNIGA WAS ACCOMPANIED BY HONDURAN CONSUL "MIKE" (LNU). AMBIDDY GAVE THEM ESSENTIALLY SAME STORY, COMMISERATED WITH THEM, AS HAD WITH RODEZNO, SUGGESTED THEY WOULD DO BETTER TO SHOP IN EUROPE, FOR EXAMPLE BELGIUM OR SPAIN, WHO WOULD SELL TO ANYONE. ZUNIGA ASKED IF AMBIDDY THOUGHT FABRIQUE NATIONAL WOULD GRANT CONFIDENTIAL COMMISSION (KICKBACK) OF AT LEAST TEN PERCENT. AMBIDDY ASSURED HIM FN WOULD. ZUNIGA TOLD AMBIDDY THAT IF HE, ZUNIGA, SUCCEEDED IN OBTAINING KICKBACK FROM FN, AMBIDDY COULD EXPECT TO RECEIVE NICE PRESENT. AMBIDDY HAS HEARD NOTHING SINCE FROM ZUNIGA BUT HAS HEARD FROM CONTACT IN HONDURAS THAT ZUNIGA BOUGHT ARMS AND AMMO FROM FN AND BOMBS IN PORTUGAL. PORTUGUESE GAVE HIM FIVE PERCENT RAKE-OFF. ZUNIGA TRAVELLED TO EUROPE ON HONDURAN PASSPORT IN ALIAS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

TOTAL COPIES
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
PAGE 3 MANAGUA 7158 SECRET

3. AMBIDDY SAYS HE DID NOT GET INVOLVED IN ANY WAY
   IN OBTAINING ARMS FOR EITHER SIDE OTHER THAN REFERRING THEM TO
   POSSIBLE FOREIGN SOURCES OF SUPPLY AND HAS NO INTENTION OF
   JEOPARDIZING HIS POSITION WITH U.S. BY GETTING MIXED UP IN
   ARMS TRAFFIC. HE HAS NO INFORMATION ON ARMS TRAFFIC WITH
   HAITI. AMBIDDY STILL HAS COPIES OF SALVADORAN AND HONDURAN
   SHOPPING LISTS AND OFFERED SEND THEM TO BARKER.

4. NO INDEX. FILE: 201-267437.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSENATION

ADVANCE COPY ☐ ED ☐ LOTTED

LASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

**NO SECRET**

(When Filled in)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLAERFY TO CS FILE NO.

LREF TO CS FILE NO.

☐ FILE RD ☐ RETURN TO BRANCH

WH-8 FILE, VR RI/AN, DDP, H&P, CS/DA SOD6, CE/CA,

FI-2

SECRET 222223Z SEP 69 CITE MANAGUA 7134

DIRECTOR INFO SAN SALVADOR, TEGUCIGALPA, WH/MIAMI

REF: DIRECTOR 39886

1. COS NANAGUA HAS NOT SEEN ANBIDDY-1 SINCE SALVADOR/
   HONDURAS WAR. ANBIDDY WAS IN TOWN FOR ONE DAY DURING MID-
   SEPTEMBER INDEPENDENCE HOLIDAYS AND SENT REGARDS TO BARKER
   THROUGH MUTUAL CUBAN FRIEND SAYING WOULD BE BACK IN MANAGUA
   SOON AND WOULD LIKE TO HAVE CHAT. COS WILL ATTEMPT TO
   CORRAL HIM IF HE DOES SHOW UP AND ELICIT INFO REQUESTED BY
   REF.

2. FLE 281-267437.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# RICHARD HARRINGTON

WH/2/HLEES

7163/1916

22 SEPTEMBER 1969

C-82064

SECRET

TO: MANAGUA INFO SAN SALVADOR, TEGUCIGALPA, WH/MIAMI

REF: MANAGUA 7059 (IN 07442) 23 SEP 1958 CITE DIRECTOR 39886

1. REQUEST COS MANAGUA CONTACT (AMBIDDY-1) AND DEBRIEF ON REF TRIP TO SAN SALVADOR. OF PARTICULAR INTEREST IS ANY INFO AMBIDDY-1 HAS ON HONDURAS/SALVADOR ARMS PURCHASES.

2. FYI: ON 17 SEPTEMBER EQS LEARNED FROM IUSTEER-1 THAT AMBIDDY-1 ARRANGED CONTACT FROM MIAMI FOR A HONDURAS ARMS BUYER TO PURCHASE ARMS IN SPAIN. FOR THIS SERVICE AMBIDDY-1 WILL RECEIVE A COMMISSION FROM THE HONDURAS ARMS BUYER BASED ON THE TOTAL ARMS PURCHASE PRICE. DO NOT REVEAL THIS INFO TO AMBIDDY-1.

3. NO INDEX. FILE: 201-267437 AND 201-283488

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COMMENT: On 22 July COS Managua received urgent phone call from AMBIDDY-1. AMBIDDY-1 said he just received phone call from Salvador and they (Salvadorans) needed eight pilots and wanted to consult with AMBIDDY. A Salvadoran visa had been authorized. COS Managua instructed AMBIDDY to proceed to San Salvador and obtain info on Salvador war plans. Once he acquired this info AMBIDDY was to inform the Salvadorans that he could not be involved in any way. AMBIDDY agreed and told COS Managua that he would contact COS on his return from the trip to San Salvador

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

JOSEPH Y. KIYONAGA

AUTH/DISTING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# C-82064

ORIG: Robert C. Rooney
UNIT: WH/2/Nicaragua
EXT: 4489
DATE: 28 July 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

DKB

CONF: WH8 . Rilan, alan, fia, SUDC.

SECRET

TO MANAGUA INFO: PORT AU PRINCE, WH/MIAMI

REF: A. PORT AU PRINCE 6311 (IN 10768)

B. MANAGUA 7069 (IN 10406)

1. HDQS WELCOMES ANY INFO ON AMBIDDY ARMS DEALINGS.

2. IF TELEPHONE ONLY LINK WITH AMBIDDY, COS IN BEST POSITION DETERMINE POSSIBILITY OF ELICITATION WITHOUT UNDUE SECURITY RISK.

FILE: 201-267437

WII Comment: Ref A indicated Port Au Prince interest in any info obtained by Managua on AMBIDDY involvement in arms sales to Haiti. Ref B reported possibility AMBIDDY and Somoza involved in arms dealings with Duvalier and asked addresses if they desire COS try elicit info from AMBIDDY.

![signature of Robert F. Riefe]

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WII DIV

![signature]
AC/WH/7
WH/COG

![signature]
JOHN C. MURRAY
AC/WII/2

CLEARING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

ROUTING AND/OR DETAILS SEEN BY:

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

A-REP TO FILE NO.
FILE BIO RET TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG
DISSEM BY
ACTION
INFO
FILE VR
WH8
RID COPY
Cilon-fiz
BILAN SODE
146

SECRET 261548Z JUL 1969 CIE PORT AU PRINCE 6311 26 Jul 10768
(RACICOT ACTING)

MANAGUA INFO DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI
REF: A. MANAGUA 7069
B. WH/MIAMI 4789

1. APPRECIATE INFORMATION REFS. STATION ALWAYS
   INTERESTED IN ANY DUVALIER OR OPPONENT ARMS DEALING DUE
   SITUATION IN HAITI, WELCOME ANY INFORMATION AMBIDDY MAY BE
   ABLE TO PROVIDE.

2. FILE 201-267437.

SECRET

![signature] 28 JUL 1969

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

C-82064

SECRET 106815Z FEB 69 CITE MANAGUA 6868
DIRECTOR, PANAMA CITY INFO WH/MIAMI

JUSTEER

REF: DIRECTOR 72449

1.  STATION FILES SHOW ERYTHROID-1 REQUESTED TRACES

16 DECEMBER 1964 ON RAFAEL GARCIA BORN 4 FEBRUARY 1932,
HABANA, CUBA. WAS ENGINEER EMPLOYED BY MOTOROLA, BEING
CLEARED FOR INSTALLATI/N FM RADIO EQUIPMENT FOR ERYTHRCID.

NO OTHER TRACES GARCIA.

2. BUSINESS PARTNER IS RESLECTED IN STATION FILES C.87513 AS
   ANTASY-27 ON WHOM PRESUME HEAD QUARTERS AND WH/MIAMI
   HAVE EXTENSIVE MATERIAL. STATION FILES SHOW HIM AS
   EXECUTIVE PILOT. 781872

3. FYI ERLOOP-1, IS CLOSELY INVOLVED AS BUSINESS PARTNER AND
   PROTECTOR IF CUBAN CROP DUSTING PILOTS IN NICARAGUA.
   HAS REPORTEDLY USED HIS OFFICIAL POSITION TO PRESSURE OTHER
   PILOTS TO LEAVE COUNTRY SO HE CAN MAKE MORE PROFIT FROM CROP
   DUSTING VENTURES HERE.

4. COS CAN PROBABLY OBTAIN CONSIDERABLE INFO ON REF
   ACTIVITY BY TRACING ERLOOP-1 DIRECTLY BUT BELIEVE BEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

PAGE 2 MANAGUA 5368 SECRET

LET MATTER LIE AT PRESENT.

5. STATION DOES NOT BELIEVE IDEN D OF REF WOULD BE INVOLVED ANY PRO-ARIAS ACTIVITY.

6. COS CAN ELICIT FROM AMBIDDY (IDEN E OF REF)

WHEN HE NEXT VISITS MANAGUA. HE ALWAYS CHECKS IN WITH

FILE 201-283488, 206-287180, 201-323565.0

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

CAB I SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERES/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
(When Filied In)

TOTAL COPIES 1 ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
GROUP 1
C-82064
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROMIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
INDEX ES NC

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
X-REF TO FILE NO.
DISSEM BY:
ACTION:
343 WHP
FILE RID RET. TO
INFO:
RID COPY
FILE:
VR: RILAN WH/COGP CLOPS aloa

6 CAS

SECRET 081957Z JUL 68 CITE PANAMA CITY 6976 (THEBALD ACTING)

JMCOBRA INFO DIRECTOR, MANAGUA 01140095

REF: MANAGUA 6617 (V45324)

1. PANAMA CITY MOST INTERESTED EFFORTS ALFREDO ALEMAN JUNIOR,
   c-82064
   MINISTER OF HACIENDA, CONTACT AMBIDDY-1. REQUEST AGENT CONTACT
   PANAMANIAN CONSUL MIAMI TO SEE IF SHE KNOWS WHAT ALEMAN WANTED.

2. FYI, ALEMAN AMONG THOSE SUPPORTERS OF DAVID SAMUDIO WHO
   REFUSING ACCEPT ELECTOR DEFEAT OF SAMUDIO. IT NOT IMPOSSIBLE HE
   SEEKING CONTRACT CUBAN EXILE STRONG ARM TYPES.

SECRET

9 JUL 1968

BT

![Signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES
GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

INDEX YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH DESTROY

DISSEM BY ACTION AT: PER INFO RID COPY FILE.

297 WHP RI/AN WH/COGP DDP ADDP CSDO

a cabes Glor 5/22 SaD6 7 JUL 4322

SECRET 071937Z JUL 68 CITE MANAGUA 6617 (TRECKLER ACTING)

DIRECT OR INFO JMCOBRA, PANAMA CITY, PORT AU PRINCE

AMBIDDY-1 TOLD ACOS 7 JULY THAT HE HAD RECEIVED PHONE CALL FROM HIS WIFE IN MIAMI ADVISING THAT SOMEONE HAD BEEN TRYING CONTACT HIM. AMBIDDY-1 ASSUMES THIS MIGHT BE HIS HQS CASE OFFICER AND WISHES TO ADVISE HQS THAT HE WILL BE RETURNING TO MIAMI ON 8 JULY.

2. FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO PICKED UP IN 2 JULY MEETING WITH AMBIDDY-1 ON EVENTS THAT OCCURRED.

PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE FROM MIAMI FIRST WEEK JULY:

A. (FNU) BLANCA ROBLES, PANAMA CONSUL IN MIAMI CONTACTED AMBIDDY-1 AND TOLD HIM PANAMANIAN MINISTER OF HACIENDA WHO WAS VISITING IN U.S. WANTED TO MEET WITH AMBIDDY-1 TO DISCUSS UNSPECIFIED URGENT MATTER.

B. EUGENE MAXIMILLIAN, HAITIAN CONSUL IN MIAMI TOLD AMBIDDY-1 THAT PRESIDENT DUVALLIER WANTED TO SEE HIM. PURPOSE WAS TO CARRY PRIVATE MESSAGE FROM DUVALIER TO PRESIDENT SOMOZA.

CLAIMED THAT IF AMBIDDY-1 DID THIS DUVALLIER WOULD RELEASE THE SON OF LEON CANTAVE FROM PRISON. SOMOZA HAS GIVEN AMBIDDY-1, PERMISSION TO MAKE THE TRIP. ACCORDING AMBIDDY-1, HE AND SOMOZA FIGURE THIS IS A PLAY BY DUVALIER TO TRY OPEN MORE DOORS ACCEPTANCE IN LATIN AMERICA. SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 36

INDEX: YES NO

ROUTING AND

FILE RID RET TO

BRANCH DESTROY SIG.

WH/CEG 8, FI, CI/OPS, CI, CI/OA, CI/I92

SECRET 201986 MAY 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 5618

DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE, MADRID, PARIS

PBRUMEN LISASSY

20 MAY 68 IN 14784

REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 5535 (IN08508)

B. MADRID 4911 (INO9784)

1.  LISASSY-1 RETURNED MEXICO CITY 15 MAY. AFTER MADRID VISIT REF B LISASSY-I VISITED FRANKFURT, EAST AND WEST BERLIN, AND PARIS. DID NOT CALL CUBAN AMBASSADOR PARIS BECAUSE DECIDED WOULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE HIS OWN RELATIONSHIP. ALSO FELT ALTHOUGH HE MET AND KNOWS AMBASSADOR SLIGHTLY, THERE WAS STRONG POSSIBLIITY AMBASSADOR WOULD NOT REMEMBER HIM AND WOULD REFUSE SEE HIM. PURPOSE LISASSY-1 PLANNED CONTACT WAS TO INFORM THE AMBASSADOR THAT DR ENRIQUE HUERTAS WHO CONSIDERS SELF MOST REPRESENTATIVE CUBAN EXILES IS WILLING MEET FIDEL CASTRO TO DISCUSS POSSIBILITY RAPPROCHEMENT WITH HUERTAS GROUP. DURING 17-18 APRIL MEET MIAMI HUERTAS CLAIMED HE IS CONTACT WITH HIGH LEVEL PERSONS CASTRO GOVERNMENT WHO MAY BE RECEPTIVE PROPOSAL RAPPROCHEMENT WITHOUT CASTRO.

2.  LISASSY-1 TOLD STATION ORIGINALLY HIS TRIP EUROPE WAS TO VISIT PHARMACEUTICAL FIRMS ON BEHALF HIS COMPANY NEW CONTRACEPTIVE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 5618 SECRET

PRODUCT PERLUTAL. ONE MONTHLY INJECTION INLIEU PRESENT DAILY
PILL CONTRACEPTIVES. ENROUTE EUROPE LISASSY-1 DECIDED VISIT HUERTAS
C-82064
AND AMBIDDY-1. DURING DISCUSSIONS WITH THESE TWO, LISASSY-1 WAS
INSTRUCTED BY MUERTAS TO CONTACT MADRID CUBAN EXILES TO FIND ONE
WHO HAS GOOD RELATIONS WITH CUBAN AMB PARIS. IF SUCH PERSON COULD
BE LOCATED, LISASSY-1 WAS TO ASK THAT PERSON TO CONVEY HUERTAS
PROPOSAL TO THE AMBASSADOR. FAILING TO LOCATE SUCH A PERSON HE WAS
TO DO IT HIMSELF. FOR REASONS CITED PARA 1, ABOVE, LISASSY-1 DID
NOT DO SO. LISASSY-1 IS CEROWGN AMBIDDY-1 UNDERSTANDS WHY HE
COULD NOT SEE THE CUBAN AMB, BECAUSE AMIBDDY-1 IS ONLY LISASSY-1
FRIEND WHO IS KNOWLEDGEABLE LISASSY-I DOUBLE ROLE.

3. LISASSY-1 HAD MESSAGE FROM LIRING-9 ON ARRIVAL MEXI,
   ASKING LISASSY-1 CALL HIM SOONEST. LISASSY-1 PLANS WITHHOLD DETAILS
   HIS EUROPEAN AND U.S. TRIP FROM LIRING-9 PENDING STATION INSTRUC-
   TIONS AS TO WHAT ELEMENTS OF TRIP CAN BE PASSED LIRING-9.

4. PRIOR HIS DEPARTURE MEXICO LISASSY-1 RECEIVED 100 CUBAN
   PESOS FROM LIRING-9 WITH INSTRUCTIONS PASS TO HUERTAS, WHO LIRING-9
   HOPED WOULD GIVE THE MONEY TO AGENTS HUERTAS MAY BE SENDING INTO
   CUBA. LIRING-9 TOLD LISASSY-I HE PHOTOGRAPHED THE MONEY SO IT
   COULD BE TRACED TO WHOEVER TURNS UP WITH IT IN CUBA. LISASSY-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

PAGE 3 MEXICO CITY 5618

DID NOT PASS THE MONEY TO HUERTAS BUT WILL TELL LIRING-9 HE DID. LISASSY-1 EXPLAINED TO STATION HE DID NOT GIVE MONEY TO HUERTAS BECAUSE COULD NOT TELL HIM LIRING-9 PLAN TO TRACE MONEY TO HUERTAS AGENTS. ALSO FELT STATION MAY WISH USE THE MONEY TO BURN SOMEONE, SO HAS IN HIS POSSESSION.

5. WILL ADVISE RESULTS LISASSY-1 MEET WITH LIRING-9.

DIRECTOR: PLS COMMENT RE PARA 4 ABOVE.

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

BY:
zef

DISSEM BY:
ACTION
WH-8
PER
RID COPY
INFO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
# SECRET
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES
3

ROUTING AND/OR INITIAL-SEEN BY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX:
YES
NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
S-SEF TO FILE
FILE DID
RET TO
SEARCH
DESTROY
SIG.
FILE VR AdHP CSDO SERVICE
EUR-6, WH/COG-8, CI/Ops, CS (CI/OA CI/FC-2

MEXICO CITY 5618
STA & NR
28 MAY 68
DATE
14784-A
IN NR

PLEASE CORRECT THE GARBLED PORTION(S) OF THIS MESSAGE TO
READ AS FOLLOWS:

"EXPLAINED TO STATION C/O HE DID NOT GIVE MONEY"

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

C-82064

SECRET 173315Z APR 68 CITE MEXICO CITY 5237

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE MADRID

PBRUMEN LISASSY

REF A DIRECTOR 90426

B JMWAVE 2831 (~90586)

1.  (LISASSY-1; DID NOT DISCUSS WITH LIRING-9 HIS PANAMA MEET WITH ENRIQUE HUERTAS. AS SUGGESTED PARA 1 REF A LISASSY-1 TOLD LIRING-9 15 APRIL HUERTAS ADVISED BY PHONE ORGANIZING INTERNATIONAL GROUPS TO WORK AGAINST AMTHUG. LISASSY-I WILL SAY DOES NOT HAVE DETAILS AND NAMES BUT WILL ATTEMPT SOLICIT FROM HUERTAS DURING STOPOVER MIAMI 17 APRIL. LISASSY-1 ALSO BRIEFED PARA 2 REF A AND AGREED GO PRAGUE FOR TRAINING IF ASKED. WILL TELL LIRING-9 HE MAY HAVE UPDATED INFO HUERTAS PLANS WHEN ARRIVES MADRID 20 APRIL FOR TWO WEEK STAY AND WILL REQUEST LIRING-9 FURNISH HIM MADRID CONTACT AND/OR. ACCOMMODATION ADDRESS.

2.  LISASSY-1 ETA MIAMI AFTERNOON 17 APRIL FOR DISCUSSIONS WITH HUERTAS AND AMBIDDY-1. THESE DISCUSSIONS WILL HAVE BEARING HIS MISSION FOR HUERTAS IN MADRID. ON 18 APRIL GOES PUERTO RICO TO VISIT BROTHER WIFE. IN MADRID PLANS SEE QUGROWL-1 AND QUGROWL-2, AND AMSEELY-1.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

PAGE TWO HEADS OFF SECRET

3. JMJAVE, MADRID: LISASSY-I VISIT THERE MAY PROVIDE EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY FELD HIM DECEPTION INFO FOR PASSAGE LIRING-9, BEARING IN MIND PARA 3 ALFA FACTORS. AS STATION REPORTED EARLIER, LISASSY-APPARENTLY IN GOOD GRACES PERUMENERS, THUS NOW IS TIME FOR HIM, COME UP WITH INDICIOF INTEREST TO THEM.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SECRET 821528Z CITE MANAGUA 6480

DIRECTOR, SAN JOSE, JMWAVE

REF: MANAGUA 6399

1. AMBIDDY-I IDENTIFIED HIS NEGRO BODYGUARD OF PARA

2 REF AS EUGENIO CLAUDE WHO RETURNED MIAMI BEFORE
CHRISTMAS. DID NOT VISIT COSTA RICA.

2. AMBIDDY IDENTIFI) FREDDY OF REF AS FREDDY BORGES,
   EMPLOYED BY TIRE COMPANY MIAMI. BORGES IS PART-TIME
   INFOFMANT AND FIXER FOR ONUMA. EFFECTIVE BUT INCLINED
   SPIN TALES OF OWN IMPORTA: UL. AMBIDDY WILL ADVISE HIM
   SHUT UP.

3. STATION OFFICER HIS IDENTIFIED QUIET CUBAN OF REF AS
   ALBERTO RUIZ. NO RECORD STATION FILES. AMBIDDY REPORTS
   BORCES WAS TRYING ARRANGE ENTRANCE TO U.S. FOR CUBAN
   REFUGE WHO ARRIVED NICARAGUA FROM SPAIN. DESCRIPTION
   SIMILAR TO RUIZ.

4. AMBIDDY SAYS NONE OF "HIS" CUBANS IN COSTA RICA
   RECENTLY.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 24

C-82064

SECRET

ACTION WH8 RID COPY

FILE, VR CI/OPS C1/102, WH/CAGE/ CI/CA/FI

SECRET 301726Z CITE MANAGUA 6399

2 JAN 1968

SAY JOSE INFO DIRECTOR, JMWAVE

30 DEC 67 IN 21302

REF: SAN JOSE 9881 (NOT SENT JMWAVE) (20968)

1. NO ERYTHROIDS WERE IN SAN JOSE AREA 21 DECEMBER.

   C-82664

2. AMBIDDY-1 IN MANAGUA FOR CHRISTMAS SEASON, MAY

STILL BE IN TOWN. COS WILL ATTEMPT FIND HIM TO SEE IF HE

CAN SHED ANY LIGHT ON THREE MEN OF REF. ABOUT 20 DECEMBER

AMBIDDY CAME TO COS HOME TO BORROW BABY CRIB, HAD WITH HIM

TALL NEGRO WHO APPARENTLY BODYGUARD. AS SAN JOSE AVARE,

BOTH ERA(CORN-1) AND AMBIDDY-1 WERE ON GUARD AGAINST

POSSIBLE ASSASSINATION. AMBIDDY MAY HAVE BROUGHT BODYGUARDS

WITH HIM FROM MIAMI THIS TRIP AND SOME OF THESE MAY HAVE

SPILLED OVER INTO COSTA RICA.

3. ANOTHER POSSIBILITY: ABOUT 13 DECEMBER SALVADOR

TOLEDO OF NICARAGUAN IMMIGRATION BROUGHT TWO CUBANS TO

ADLON NIGHT CLUB MANAGUA, INTRODUCED THEM TO OWNER AS

FRIENDS OF JOSE IVAN "PEPE" ALEGREIT, IMMIGRATION CHIEF,

ASKED THAT THEY BE WELL TREATED. ONE CUBAN DID ALMOST

ALL TALKING. GAVE NAME AS FREDDY. LAST NAME UNDECIPHERABLE

FROM HANDWRITTEN NOTATIIN, BEGINS WITH LETTER B, CONTAINS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRE

23211

ABOUT 5 LETTERS. ADDRESS VEVC#V 16 STREET, MIAMI, PHONE 633-4584. FREDDY ABOUT FIVE NINE, MEDIUM BUILD AND COMPLEXION, DARK HAIR, NO DISTINGUISHING MARKS. OTHER, QUIET, CUBAN WAS SHORT, WALKED WITH LIMP, BLACK MUSTACHE, VERY HEAVY CUBAN ACCENT. FREDDY FLASHED PLASTIC CARD SHOWING HIM TO BE CUBAN REFUGEE (PROBABLY ALIEN REGISTRATION CARD), SAID HE AND OTHER CUBAN BOTH WORKING FOR WOFIRM. CLAIMED HAD SOMETHING TO DO WITH CUBANS PICKED UP IN MANAGUA BY IMMIGRATION. WAS PLANNING GO MIAMI NEXT DAY CARRYING SOME PASSPORTS. WOULD RETURN IN ABOUT TWO WEEKS. ON 28 AND 29 DECEMBER TOLEDE AND THE QUIET CUBAN APPEARED AT ADLON CLUB BUT FREDDY HAS NOT SHOWN UP AGAIN ALTHOUGH WAS EXPECTED BACK IN MANAGUA 29 DECEMBER.

4. SINCE JMWAVE DID NOT GET EARLIER TRAFFIC, SUGGEST HQS FILL IN AS APPROPRIATE. JMWAVE PLS CABLE TRACES ON FREDDY.

5. ALEGRETT HAS LOTS OF CUBAN CONTACTS MIAMI AREA AND IS CONSTANTLY BRINGING THEM INTO NICARAGUA ON BUSINESS DEALS. STATION HAS GOOD RELATIONS WITH HIM, WILL TRY ELICIT INFO ON FREDDY AND OTHER CUBAN.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SEGRET

PAGE 3 MANAGUA 6399 SECRET

6. SOUNDS LIKE SAN JOSE AND MANAGUA INCIDENTS MAY
   SIMPLY BE BIG-MOUTHING BY MEN SEEKING ENHANCE IMPORTANCE.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

0-82064

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

WH/COG 8 ☑ RID COPY

vr WH 2

6 Nov 67: €7575

SECRET 06168. CITE MANAGUA 6328

PRIORITY DIRECTOR 'N/O JMWAVE

TYPIC AMBIDDY

C-82064

AMBIDDY-1, HA: OST PHONE NUMBER OF GROWERY WHOM

HE KNOWS AS "MIST WILSON". WOULD APPRECIATE PHONE

CONTACT AT HIS M/11 RESIDENCE 6 OR 7 NOVEMBER.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 2

FILE RID
SECRET
O INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO 201-300923

BARRY CARTWRIGHT
/COG/CICS
R-9008
21 JANUARY 1967
DISSM FY 4 PER S

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH/COGS/RID COPY INFO: VB. FILE WH8, CI/OPS, CROA

SECRET 25 10 15 Z. CITE DIRECTOR 69479

TO: MEXICO CITY INFO: JUWAVE 26 JAN 1967

TYPIC LISASSY/LIRING

REF: MEXICO CITY 0024 (IN:83232)

HQS CASE OFFICER (GROWERY) IN PROCESS CONTACTING
(C-82064)
LAMBIDDY/1 TO REQUEST HE NOT CORRESPOND WITH LISASSY/1 ON
THIS OPERATIONAL MATTER. REQUEST STATION EXPLAIN THIS
LISASSY/1.

2. DO NOT WISH INTERRUPT PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP OR
   EXILE ORG BUSINESS BECAUSE IT ONE REASON FOR LIRING INTER-
   EST LISASSY/1, AND LISASSY/1 AND AMBIDDY/1 WILL TALK TO
   EACH OTHER ANYHOW.

3. HAS STATION BEEN ABLE ESTABLISH COMMO FROM
   LISASSY/1 TO STATION AS DISCUSSED WITH TRECKLER AT HQS.

4. REQUEST STATION SEND PARA FIVE REF COMMO
   INSTRUCTIONS AND AMSPICE COMMO INSTRUCTIONS.

END OF MESSAGE

CONT/

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIMITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET
PAGE 2

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 69479

WH/COG COMMENT:

REPORT ON 16 JAN MEETING WITH LISASSY/1, PARA FIVE:
LIRING/1 PROVIDED ELABORATE AND OVER-COMPLICATED COMMO
INSTRUCTIONS WHICH APPEAR ENAMATE FROM HAVANA.

C/WH/COG/CICS

WH/COG/MO E. CHIOCCA (DRAFT)

WH/COG/FI W. MURRAY (DRAFT)

WH/1/MEXICO J. STEWART (DRAFT)

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

THOMAS J. FLORES
C/WH/COG

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# TOP SECRET

B.CAREW/mak
W/C/CICS
2578
26 OCT 66

TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
201-300923

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WHK8 RID COPY

INFO: FILE WH8 CI/OPS C/162
CAR F1 FI/INT2

27 17 06 Z CITE DIRECTOR 47286

TO: SECRET

MEXICO CITY INFO: JMWAVE MANAGUA

TYPIC LISASSY

REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 8972 (IN 25337)

B. MEXICO CITY 8860 (IN 17955)

C. HNMA 3667, 5 OCT 66

D. DIR 47285

1. SUBJECT 201-300923, PRINCIPAL REF CASE, ASSIGNED LISASSY/1.

2. BELIEVE SALIENT POINTS RAISED BY PRELIMINARY HQS ANALYSIS

TO BE KEPT IN MIND DURING HANDLING CASE ARE:

A. FACT HE HAS RELATIVES CUBA.

A.A CLAIMS CONTACTS WITH OTHER WOFACT STATION CASE

OFFICERS (HNMA-3667):

RELEASING OFFICER
27-7
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
CONT/
GROUP 1
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

| 1   | 5   |
| --- | --- |
| 2   | 6   |
| 3   | 7   |
| 4   | 8   |

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

(CLASSIFICATION)
SECRET

INFO: VR, FILE

(DATE AND TIME FILED)

ELITE (REFERENCE NUMBER) PICA
CITE DIRECTOR
c-82064

3. LISASSY-1 IN SECRET WRITING CONTACT WITH AMBIDDY AND
   ALTHOUGH HEADQUARTERS HAS NOT SEEN MESSAGES, BELIEVE HE HAS INFORMED AMBIDDY ABOUT CASE. LATEST MESSAGE BEING DECRYPTED. HEADQUARTERS FOR COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT. DUE SENSITIVITY OF CASE HEADQUARTERS MAY ASK AMBIDDY MINIMIZE OR COMPLETELY STOP CORRESPONDENCE WITH LISASSY WITH AGREEMENT WE INFORM AMBIDDY ANY DEVELOPMENTS THAT MIGHT AFFECT HIM. AMBIDDY MAY REFUSE THIS REQUEST BECAUSE HE VITALLY CONCERNED AND BECAUSE INITIAL CAVEAT TO WOFACT IN REF C THAT CONTROL OF OPERATION NOT BE GIVEN WORFACT. IN ADDITION, REGARDLESS ANY AGREEMENT, LIKELY THEY WOULD CONTINUE CORRESPOND SECRETLY.

4. HEADQUARTERS DISSEMINATING IARTS REF A TO INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ON LIMITED BASIS AS EXAMPLE CUIS REQUIREMENTS.

5. FYI: PER PARA SIX REF A, AMBASSADOR TO MOROCCO ENRIQUE (RODRIGUEZ-LOECHES) HERNANDEZ CONTACTED RABAT BY QUWHIP/1 (MADRID STATION ASSET) 12 OCTOBER 1966 IN ATTEMPT RECRUIT OR DEFECT.

CONT

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

MESSAGE FORI
TOTAL COPIES:
# SECRET

DISSEM BY: PER

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

RID COPY

(CLASSIFICATION)
# SECRET

TO:

CITE DIRECTOR

1. CURIOUS DESCRIPTION OF 29 SEPT 66 MEETING WITH CAPOTE, INVOLVING EVASIVE ROUTE TO, AND SURVEILLANCE WHILE AT, RESTAURANT (HNMA-3667).

2. POSSIBILITY SUBJECT WITH OR WITHOUT AMBIDDY-1 KNOWLEDGE "PLAYING" ABREU FOR SOME TIME, WHICH MIGHT
   EXPLAIN WHY SUBJECT IN POSSESSION SUCH LENGTHY LIST

LITAMIL-9

CUIS REQUIREMENTS AFTER ONLY FIVE DEVELOPMENTAL MEETINGS WITH C/O.

3. CONFIRMATION CAPOTE IN MEXICO ON SCHOLARSHIP AND INVESTIGATION HIS ACTIVITIES.

4. POSSIBILITY IDENTIFY VALVERDE THROUGH TRAVEL MANIFESTS AND LIONION.

5. AS STATION COMMENTED, PUT BRAKES ON OPERATIONAL SLANTS INITIATED BY SUBJECT.

CONT/

COORDINATING OFFICERS
# SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

MESSAG FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8

FILE RID
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN ES FILE NO.

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: RID COPY INFO: VR FILE

(CLASSIFICATION)
SECRET
(DATE AND TIME FILED)
(ELITE) (PICA)
(REFERENCE NUMBER)
47280
CITE DIRECTOR

752480
ACCUSED QUWHIP BE ASSOCIATED SAME GROUP AS QUBRAVE/1 AND
NR
AMLASH/2. IMPLIED WOULD SOON BE MEMBER PCC. SAID "KNEW WHAT
HE DOING. WAS RETURNING CUBA OCTOBER OR NOVEMBER AND WOULD
COME OUT AGAIN IN FEW YEARS". CONSIDER LISASSY/1 IDEA SOUND BUT
PREFER LET OPERATION STARLIZE BEFORE TAKING ACTION.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/C/CICS
C/WH/C/CA
C/WH/C/MO
C/WH/C/FI
WH/1-J.Stewart (draft)
WH/2

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RELEASING OFFICER
C/WHD

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
C/WH/C


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

CAIG: B. CAREW:not
UNIT: WH/C/CICS
EAS: 2578
DATE: 26 OCT 66
DISSEM BY 7 PER

FILE RID
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-300923

TOTAL COPIES:

1
2
3
4

ROUTING

5
6
7
8

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR
COMF: WH/C/8 RID COPY

THPOYR FILE WH 8 c/ops c/152

(CLASSIFICATION)
SECRET

CLOA
(DATE AND TIME FIRED)
27 17 05Z

(ELITE)
(REFERENCE NUMBER)
47285
CITE DIRECTOR

TO MEXICO CITY INFO: JMWAVE MANAGUA.
TYPIC LISASSY

28 OCT 1966

REFS: A) MEXICO CITY 8972 (IN 25337)

1. TRACES: AMARO ESTEBAN ALVAREZ TORMO BORN, 3 AUG 29 MATANZAS CUBA, CUBAN, MEDICAL SURGEON, SON OF AMARO ALVAREZ GONZALEZ AND MERCEDES TORMO LAGULLON, WIFE MARIA CARMEN CAGIGAS ARTESGABEITIA. UFGS-21693. 1 JUN 65: SUBJECT ENGAGED ANTI-BATISTA ACTIVITIES, DID NOT AGREE CASTRO POLICIES AND WENT MEXICO EARLY 1960. MEXICO CITY 7802, 8 APR 61: OFFICIAL DELEGATE, BUSINESSMENS SECTION FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD). HMYA-1383, 25 NOV 60: MEMBER TOURING FRD TEAM, REPORTEDLY WITH FIDEL CASTRO IN SIERRA MAESTRA. (NO EVAL) UFGA-24076, 21 DEC 65: OFFICER OF JUANA CASTRO GROUP MEXICO ?

2, NO INDICATION HQS FILES SUBJECT EVER WOFACT ASSET. HE WAS KNOWN PERSONALLY TO ANDREW F. MERTON UNDER EMBASSY COVER AND PROBABLY THOUGHT MERTON WAS WOFACT. HE NEVER USED AS ASSET BY MERTON OR ANY OTHER STATION OFFICER ACCORDING MERTONS BEST

RELEASING OFFICER
27-6 cont/
SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

OFILE RID
SECRET
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
RID COPY

(CLASSIFICATION)
SECRET

(DATE AND TIME FILED)
CITE DIRECTOR

TO PAGE TWO

RECOLLECTION, WHICH IS THAT HE WAS PEST TRYING ESTABLISH HIMSELF WITH AMEMBASSY AS LEADING EXILE, AS PUSHING OWN VISA CASE AND AS LEADING ATTEMPT BY BUSINESSMANS SECTION FRD TAKE OVER POLITICAL CONTROL FRD MEXICO CITY DURING TRIP TO MIAMI. (DOCUMENT POSSIBLY MEXICO CITY 7802 ABOVE WHICH UNAVAILABLE THIS WRITING). 3. SUBJECT WELL-KNOWN LITAMIL /2 WAD SHOULD BE ABLE PROVIDE CONSIDERABLE BACKGROUND. / END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/C/CICS

WH/C/MO

WH/C/FI

WH/C/CA

WH/1
Indoft He

WH/2
Q. EDWARDS GRAME)

WH/C/A/PA

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP 1
SHOAS J. FLORES
Excluded from
downngrading and
declassifica
C/H/C


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

MESSAGE FORM

# SECRET

6416: E.WILLIAMSON/yh FILE RID

UNIT: DC/WH/C C INDEX

EXT: 3481 OKO INDEX

DATE: 18 OCTOBER 66 FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-267437

DISSEM BY 24

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH/C-8 RID COPY INFO: VA FILE

TO MEXICO CITY INFO MANAGUA

TYPIC AMBIDDY

REF: MEXICO CITY 8860 (In 17955)

1. RE PARA 4 REF, AMBIDDY/1 COM TO RECEIVESA SUBSIDY OF $3005 AMENTA FROM WOFACT, WHICH HE CLAIMS IS DISBURSED TO FAMILIES OF AMWORLD CASUALTIES. THIS SUBSIDY WAS CUT LAST JULY, AND HE HAS BEEN WARNED IT MAY BE ELIMINATED IN THE FUTURE.

2. AMBIDDY/1 HAS MENTIONED IN PAST HE LIKELY TARGET FOR ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT BY CASTRO BUT DOURT ALVAREZ REPORT IS ATTEMPT BY AMBIDDY/1 TO REGAIN STATUS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/C/FI

C/WH/C/CICS

WH/1 J.Stewart (draft)

C/WH/2/CR&N BEDWARDS

DC/LWH2

WILLIAM BROE

C/WH

RELEASING OFFICER

19--7

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

THOMAS J. FLORES

C/WH/C

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

![logo of group i automatic downgrading and classification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

INDEX: YES □ NO □

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

B-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE BID RET. TO BRANCH □

DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 2x

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

DOSEM AV 53

ACTION RID COPY □ ADVANCE COPY □ SLOTTED □ TUSED

UNIT TIME BY

INFO W/4/c.8

FILE: VP, WH.8, CA 2, CA/RKOP, SLOTS, CLI. 2, CI, C,/

SECRET 150140Z CITE MEXICO CITY 8860

DIRECTOR INFO MANAGUA

TYPIC AMBIDDY

REF: A. MANAGUA 5808

B. DIRECTOR 41783

1. ONLY ELEMENT WHICH WOULD EFFECTIVELY FAN-FIRE OF CURRENT ANTI-GOC PROPAGANDA IN MEXICO WOULD BE EXPOSURE OF:

A. CUBAN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS DIRECTED AT MEXICO, OR,

B. COMPLETE DISREGARD FOR MEXICAN SOVEREIGNITY ON PART OF CUBANS INVOLVED IN THIRD COUNNTRY OPS.

2. IN LINE WITH REF B, STATION PLANNING:

A. IDENTIFY VALVERDE AND COLLEAGUES AND TRY DEIERMINE IF THEIR ACTIVITIES INVOLVE MEXICANS.

B. TRY TAPE STRONG ANTI-MEXICAN STATEMENTS HOPEFULLY MADE BY VALVERDE AND FRIENDS DURING MEETING WITH DR. ALVAREZ.

3. PLAN HAVE FIRST MEETING WITH ALVEREZ 18 OCTOBER USING LIEMBRACE TEAM FOR SURVEILLANCE MEETING SITE AND TAILING OF ALVAREZ FOR SEVERAL DAYS. WILL EXPLORE WITH ALVAREZ HOW VALVERDE COULD BE TRAPPED INTO MAKING STATEMENTS DETRIMENTAL TO MEXICO IN CONNECTION WITH STRONG ARM TYPE OPS AND HOW THESE STATE-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 8863 SECRET

MENTS COULD BE RECORDED. CLANDESTINE PHOTOS OF VALVERDE WOULD
BE TAKEN AT SUBSEQUENT MEETINGS. DEPENDING ON TAKE, TAPES AND
PHOTOS COULD BE SEHT MEXICAN OFFICIALS WHILE PART OF INFO
LEAKED TO FOREIGN PRESS. LIEMBRACE WOULD NATURALLY SURVEIL
VALVERDE'S MOVEMENTS FOR PERIOD AFTER INITIAL MONITORED MEETING
WITH ALVAREZ.

4. PLEASE ADVISE STATUS ANBIDDY-1 RELATIONSHIP WITH WOFACT.
   REF A COULD POSSIBLY BE AMBIDDY-1 ATTEMPT TO REGAIN STATUS.

SECRET

BT

NNNN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES: 17

BRIC: E.WILLIAMSON/yb
UNIT: WH/C
EXT: 3481
DATE: 24 JUNE 66
DISSEM BY: 12
PER:

* FILE RID
* ONDER
* CINDER
* FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

1
2
3
4

* DESTROY
* RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH/C 80 RID COPY
INFO: VR. FILE
01/04, CI/OPS, SOD6

SECRET

25 16 307 CITE DIRECTOR 154F0

TO JMWAVE C82064

TYPIC AMBIDDY/1

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 13592

B. JMWAVE 1479 (CIN 37522)

1. IN MEETING 22 JUNE AMBIDDY/1 (A/1) SAID ONLY GEAR LEIT IN
   U.S. FROM AMWORLD IS 2-3 RUBBER BOATS AND 6-8 SILENT OUTBOARD MOTORS
   WHICH STORED SMALL ROOM IN FARM NEAR WEST PALM BEACH. HIS REP, SAENZ,
   ALSO HAS 6-8 RADIOS IN HIS HOME MIAMI. A/1 CLAIMS HAS NO SIGNIFICANT
   ARM; OR AMMUNITION IN U.S. AND KNOWS OF NO SOURCES MIAMI AREA WHERE
   ANY QUANTITY ARMS CAN BE OBTAINED. HE SAID AT TIME GUANTANAMO ALERT
   HE CHECKED RE PURCHASE ARMS MIAMI AREA IN CASE NEEDED AND COULD ONLY
   LOCATE ABOUT 60 RIFLES AMONGST 3 EXILE GROUPS.

2. A/1 DISCLAIMED ANY KNOWLEDGE BOB BROWN (REF B), SAID HE HAD
   NOT BEEN APPROACHED FOR INFO ON ANY MAGAZINE ARTICLES OR FOR INFO RE
   PURCHASE OR POSSIBILITY PURCHASE ARMS MIAMI.

3. A/1 TO FURNISH INVENTORY REMAINING AMWORLD GEAR IN J.S. ON
   RETURN MIAMI. UPON RECEIPT, HQS WILL FORWARD COPY AND ANY ADDITIONAL
   PERTINENT INFO TO WAVE.

......CONTINUED....

RELEASING OFFICER: 25-9

COORDINATING OFFICERS: SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COPY NO.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR

RID COPY

CITE DIRECTOR
PAGE TWO

15400

4. A/1 GOING NYC ON OWN EVENING 23 JUNE AND PLANS RETURN
   MIAMI 24 or 25 JUNE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/C/MO 3. mills

SECRET

![signature of WILLIAM V. BROE] WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WH
RELEASE OFFICER

![signature of THOMAS J. FLORES] THOMAS J. FLORES
C/WH/C
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# MESSAGE FORM

A.D. ROELFING/lak
UNIT: HR/C/CA/EW
EXT: 6357-1255
DATE: 22 NOV 65

TO: CARACAS MANAGUA SAN JOSE GUATEMALA TEGUCIGALPA PANAMA CITAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH/c 8, INFO: VR, FILE RID COPY, wh 8, colors, clop

TO: CARA MANA SJOS
INFO: GUAT TGU PACY WAVE
CITE DIR: 60386

TYPIC

REFS: A. DIR 59681

28 NOV 1665

1. HQS REQUESTED AMBIDDY-1 (A-1) NOT INVOLVE HIMSELF ALEJOS-
   PONCIANO-SOMOZA MEETING WHICH SEEMINGLY TO TAKE PLACE MANA DURING
   WEEK 22-28 NOV, WAS ASKED POSTPONE TRIP IN ORDER AVOID GRIST FOR
   RUMOR MILLS. A-1 UNDERSTOOD BUT EXPLAINED HAD LONG-STANDING APPOINT-
   MENT SOMOZA RELATING OTHER MATTERS SUCH AS TURNOVER OF BASES ETC.
   AS COMPROMISE OFFERED DEPART MANA 23 NOV FOR SJOS THUS AVOIDING
   MEETING WITH ROBERTO ALEJOS WHO DUE IN FROM WAVE SAME DAY.

2. IN SJOS A-1 HOPING RECEIVE INVITE FROM IDEN-1 VIA VENEZUELA
   EMBASSY SJOS. IF FALLS THROUGH WILL RETURN MANA IN ORDER ASCERTAIN
   WHAT TRANSPIRED AT ABOVE MENTIONED MEET. HOWEVER, IF RECEIVES INVITE
   PLANS TRAVEL CARA O/A 29 NOVEMBER, HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED STAY TAMANACO
   HOTEL AND REGISTER UNDER NAME IDEN-2. WAS TOLD IF KUBARK WISHED HIM

CONTINUED//


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE BID

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
SECRET

1
2
3
4

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
INFO: VR FILE RID COPY

TO
INFO
CITE DIR 60386

PAGE TWO

MAKE CONTACT WITH PLOTTERS MENTIONED REF B WOULD RECEIVE CALL
FROM "AMIGO DE ANDRES". IF NO INTEREST IN HIS MAKING CONTACT
WOULD NOT BE CALLED AT ALL.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

DC/WH/C/CA

Terrell
WH/2 (telecon)

M. Peake
WH/3 (telecon)
WH/C/MO

JOHN E. HART
DCWHD/C

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

SECRET
GROUP I
COPY NO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

ORIG : A.D. POHLFING/Lak

UNIT : WH/C/CA/EW

EXT : 6957-1255

DATE : 22. NOV 65

NOT
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX

6 SECRET
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 200-120-58

TO : CARACAS MANAGUA SAN JOSE GUATEMALA TEGUICIGALPA PANAMA CITY JEWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH/C INFO: VR FILE RID COPY WH P, CI/OPS/4/09

TO INFO CITE DIR

CARA MANA SJOS GUAT TEGU PACY WAVE 60387

TYPIC

DIR: 60386

IDEN - 1 PRESIDENT RAUL LEONI

IDEN.- 2 MANUEL A. BUESA

END OF MESSAGE

![Signature of Terrell] DC/WH/C/CA

Terrell

WH/2 (telecon)

M. Peak

WH/3 (telecon)

![Signature of Bmil] WH/C/MO

![Signature of William V Broe]

WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER 24-3

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded hem automatic downgrading and delarcification]

![Signature of John L Hart]

JOHN L. HART

DOWHD/C

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)