2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

Coordination: JFK Assassination Document (FBI referral)

FROM: Barry Harrelson, Reviewer
CSI/HRG
402 Ames

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                        | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICIAL'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ---------------------- | ------------- | --------- | ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. DCI / FIO 7E 12 OHB | 3/29/93       |           | Me                  | Becky,                                                                                                  |
For your reviews,
FBI memorandum dated 12/23/63 (Brennan to Sullivan) containing CIA information.
We are proposing "Release-in-Full" for this document. |
| 2. |   |   |   |   |
| 3. |   |   |   |   |
| 4. Barry Harrelson CSI/HRG |   |   |   |   |
| 5. 402 Ames |   |   |   |   |
| 6. |   |   |   |   |
| 7. |   |   |   |   |
| 8. |   |   |   |   |
| 9. |   |   |   |   |
| 10. |   |   |   |   |
| 11. |   |   |   |   |
| 12. |   |   |   |   |
| 13. |   |   |   |   |
| 14. |   |   |   |   |
| 15. |   |   |   |   |


Barry

no alyection to
full release of
This document

Becky Ravy

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS
1-92 EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 13-00000

OPTIONAL PORM NO. 10
MAY 1963 EDITION
GIA DEN, BEG. NO. 27
2016-106

UNITED STATES GO ERNMENT

# Memorandum

TO : Mr. W. C. Sullivan

FROM : Mr. D. J. Brennan, Jr.

DATE: 12/23/63

SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) Lee Oswald

Reference is made to memorandum dated 12/19/63, from Mr. Brennan to Mr. Sullivan. Pursuant to instructions, Agent Papich met with John McCone, Director, CIA, on 12/23/63, to confront the CIA Director with false statements attributed to him by Mr. DeLoach's source. The Liaison Agent is reporting this meeting in some detail so that you may have full appreciation of all aspects.

Agent Papich advised McCone that he had a piece of business which needed ironing out before the end of the year. The Agent explained that since the assassination of President Kennedy, there have been various types of stories circulated concerning the case and the evidence collected; that some of these stories could immediately be discounted; and that there was certain information received by the Bureau which very directly affected relations between the Bureau and CIA. The Agent stated that certain information had reached such proportion to be most alarming and that the Agent had requested permission from Mr. Hoover to discuss the matter with the CIA Director.

McCone was then told that he was charged with being the source of information conveyed to a high Government official and to Drew Pearson in that he, McCone, had stated that CIA had uncovered a plot in Mexico City indicating that Lee Harvey Oswald had received $6,500 to assassinate President Kennedy. The Agent elaborated by stating that if this were true, McCone had endeavored to leave the impression with certain people that CIA had developed information not known to the Bureau and, in essence, made the Bureau look ridiculous. The Agent advised that if McCone had made such statements, we could only assume that he was employing vicious and underhanded tactics since he and officials of his agency fully well knew that the story concerning the $6,500 had been proved to be absolutely false. McCone's attention was directed to the Alvarado interrogation, Alvarado's admission that he had fabricated the information and the subsequent

1 - Mr. Belmont

1 - Mr. DeLoach

1 - Mr. Sullivan

1 - Mr. Branigan

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

NOT RECORDED 199 JAN 2 1964

22 DEC 31 1963


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 13-00000

emo Mr. Brennan to Mr. Sullivan
Re: RELATIONS WITH CIA

corroboration of the polygraph. [^5]

***SECRET***

McCone was very visibly incensed and left the impression that he might at any moment ask the Agent to leave. After pausing a few moments, he made the following statements: [^6]

(1) He stated that he has never talked to Drew Pearson in his life; that he has never sent any kind of message to Pearson directly or indirectly and that he does not have any intention of communicating with Pearson. He briefly referred to the fact that he has been the target of attacks by Pearson, one of these occurring within the last two weeks.

(2) With regard to the "$6,500 story," McCone advised that as soon as the original report was received from his people in Mexico City, he contacted President Johnson and informed him of the development. He explained to the President that this was a matter which required intensive interrogation of Alvarado and that CIA had coordinated very closely with the FBI. He told the President that Alvarado would be kept in a safe house by CIA until the FBI was satisfied that all necessary investigative action had taken place. [^5]

(3) McCone advised that he has not been critical of the Bureau; that if he had any criticism he would confer directly with the Bureau and not get involved in malicious gossip. He commented that in connection with the Oswald case, he has encountered people who have been critical of the Bureau and the Secret Service and he, McCone, has gone to the defense of both agencies. [^5]

McCone was left in an angry mood but he did retain his composure throughout. Before the Agent left, McCone inquired about the status of FBI - CIA relations in general and the Agent replied that they were satisfactory. He also asked about the Director's health which the Agent answered that the Director was in excellent health.

As indicated above, no statement was made which in any way might jeopardize the security of Mr. DeLoach's sources.

ACTION:

For information.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CIA SPEC REGISTOLL JONS
2000 10 April 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Grant P. Harmon
Unit Chief, JFK Taskforce
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Barry Harrelson, Senior Reviewer
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency

SUBJECT: Authenticity of Document

1.  This is in response to your request to this office to review the attached document and advise if it is a valid Agency document or something made up using an Agency reports format and information either entirely made up or from other sources. The 3 August 1962 document purports to tie Dorothy Kilgallen, Marilyn Monroe and former Attorney General, Robert Kennedy, together with knowledge of an number of matters, including the plot to kill Castro.

2.  Those Agency officers who have reviewed the document consider it to be fradulent. While the format resembles a "reports" form used in the 1960's, the substantive information and presentation is foreign to normal presentaion or collection efforts. Also, the control stamps and other administrative items are not typical of CIA reports written during the 1960's.

3.  If you have any further questions in this regard, please call me directly at (703) 351-2909.

![signature of Barry Harrelson]
Barry Harrelson

BH:gb

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# 13-00000

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

NOT FOR PUBLICATION

COUNTRY: New York, US

SUBJECT: Marilyn Monroe

REPORT NO.

DATE DISTR: 3 August 1962

NO PAGES:

REFERENCES: MOON DUST Project

3 August 1962

SUBJECT: Wiretap of telephone conversation between Reporter Dorothy Kilgallen and Howard Rothberg (A); Wiretap of telephone conversation of Marilyn Monroe and Attorney General Robert Kennedy (B). Appraisal of Contents.

1. Rothberg discussed the apparent break up of subject with Kilgallen and the Kennedys. Rothberg told Kilgallen that she was attending Hollywood parties hosted by the "inner circle" among Hollywood's elite and was becoming the talk of the town again. Rothberg indicated in so many words, that she had secrets to tell, no doubt arising from her trists with the President and the Attorney General. One such mentions the visit by the President at a secret air base for purpose of inspecting things from outer space. Kilgallen replied the she know what might be the source of visit. In the mid-fifties Kilgallen learned of secret effort by US and UK governments to identify origins of crashed spacecraft and dead bodies, from a British government official. Kilgallen believed the story may have come from the late forties. Kilgall- said that if the story is true, it would cause terrible embarrass Jack and his plans to have NASA put men on the moon.

2. Subject repeatedly called the Attorney General and complained about the way she was being ignored by the President and his brother.

3. Subject threatened to hold a press conference and would tell all.

4. Subject made reference to "bases" in Cuba and plans of the President's plan to kill Castro.

5. Subject made reference to her "diary of secrets" and what the newspapers would do with such disclosures.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

13-00000

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

15 May 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ms. Ellie Neiman
DO JFK Review Team

FROM:
Barry Harrelson
Senior Reviewer, CSI/HRG

SUBJECT: FBI Request For CIA's Opinion
On Proposed FBI Release Of Agent
Specific Data

1. The FBI has asked for an Agency response on the following matter.

2. HRG counterparts at the FBI are engaged in serious discussions with representatives of the Review Board concerning withholding the identities of FBI confidential informants. In the course of those negotiations, FBI officers advise they are increasingly concerned about being able to withhold the crypts and, possible even the true names, of three former Soviet agents. Given that view, they believe it would assist their overall efforts and negotiating position if they could release additional information on one or more of the three Soviet-agents.

3. The three former Soviet agents are:

a. "TOPHAT" also encrpyted as BOURBON;" true name is provided on separate attachment.

b. "SHAMROCK" true name on attachment.

c. "FEDORA" also encrpyted or known as "IRONCLAD" "SCOTCH" AND "JADE;" true name on attachment.

4. Attached are seven documents that the FBI is considering for release. Two of them are CIA documents found in the FBI JFK file. HRG has been unable to locate these documents in the CIA JFK collection.

5. Please provide DO views on the FBI proposal.

![Signature of Barry Harrelson]
Barry Harrelson

Atts: A/S

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

IDEN ATTACHMENT TO 10 MAY 1995 MEMORANDUM

The following names and descriptions are keyed to paragraph 3 of the 10 May memornadum:

a. Dmitriy Fedorovich POLYAKOV; reportedly died as a result of Ames disclosure.

b. Nikolay Romanovich MAKAREVICH; whether he is dead or alive is not known.

c. Aleksiy Isadorovich KULAK (Kulyak ?); reportedly died of natural causes.

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

FBI file
26.7.95

Passed this excised portion of OO's 7 Jan 95 memo to the FBI.

NOTE: GOT LEE CARLO'S concurrence to do so beforehand.

a. SHAMROCK's real name, Nikolay Romanovich MAKAREVICH may not be released. His identity has remained a secret for 30 years. We do not know if MAKAREVICH is alive or dead, and believe that exposure could damage him and his family.

b. Tom RYAN's name should be deleted from the front cover of the SHAMROCK debriefing. Mr. RYAN retired under cover, and is employed as an intelligence contractor on a sensitive project.

c. The name and cover name of NARKULYANI ("Greta") should be deleted.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)