# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10326-10026

SECRET
MHFNO: 97-8745117
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 1

SECRET
FRP:
STAFF
ACTION: EUR/IBIL (714) INFO: CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGEUR, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC,
EUDORECORD, EUR/FRS, EUR/FRSF, EUR/IBII, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD, ORMS/EUR,
RYBAT, FILE, CIC/EUR, DCEUR/CI (3/W)

97 8745117 ASR PAGE 001 IN 8745117
TOR: 070622Z AUG 97 ROME 31799
SECRET 0706162 AUG 97 STAFF

CITE ROME 31799

TO: DIRECTOR INFO PARIS.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM EUR/IBIL INFO EUR/FRS, CIC/EUR

SLUGS-WNINTEL RYBAT VYSWORD TRACE

SUBJECT VYSWORD REQUEST FOR DOCUMENTS ON JEAN RENE SOUTRE AKA
MICHEL ROUX, OAS CAPTAIN

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: CONFIRM DECLASSIFICATION AND AVAILABILITY
   OF DOCUMENTS

2. PER MEMO (NR 04/46) FROM THE VYSWORD_FIRST DIVISION
   (COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/COUNTERTERRORISM) VYSWORDS HAVE REQUESTED
   ASSISTANCE IN OBTAINING/CONFIRMING AVAILABILITY OF SEVERAL DOCUMENTS
   RELATING TO ORGANIZATION SECRET ARMIE (SAO) CAPTAIN JEAN MARIE
   ((SOUTRE)) (ALSO SPELLED ((SOUETRE)) THE VYSWORDS-NOTE THAT PER
   THE "INTERNET" THESE HAVE RECENTLY BEEN DECLASSIFIED AND ARE
   AVAILABLE IN THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES IN COLLEGE PARK, MARYLAND. THIS
   INFORMATION IS BEING REQUESTED ON BEHALF-OF-CERTAIN (UNNAMED)
   MAGISTRATES IN MILAN. VYSWORDS SPECIFICALLY ASK FOR AVAILABILITY OF
   THE FOLLOWING:

A. FBI 46 PAGE REPORT ON JEAN SOUETRE AKA MICHEL ((ROUX))
DATED 22 NOV 63, RECORD NR. 180-10110-10054, AGENCY FILE NUMBER
*<025-JFK.>

B. CIA ONE PAGE DOCUMENT MENTIONING JEAN RENE SOUETRE (NO
DATE), RECORD NR. 180-10142-10273, CIA FILE NR 023-025-024.

C. CIA 3 PAGE DOCUMENT DATED 1 APR 64 RE "FORTH WORTH,
TEXAS," "MICHEL ROUX," "DALLAS, TEXAS," AND "MICHEL
MERTZ/EXTRADITION," RECORD NR 104-10002-10042, CIA FILE NR.
201-0289248.

D. CIA ONE PAGE DOCUMENT DATED 1 APR 64 RE JEAN SOUETRE,
RECORD NR. 180-10001-10374, CIA FILE NR. 000111 (SIC).

3. WE ARE NOT KEEN TO GET INTO CHASING SUCH DOCUMENTS DOWN FOR
   VYSWORD. WE INTEND TO RESPOND THAT V/SWORD SHOULD WRITE DIRECTLY TO
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO:97-8745117

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE: 2

THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES TO OBTAIN THEM. HOWEVER, WE WOULD LIKE CONFIRMATION THAT THESE DOCUMENTS-HAVE-INDEED_BEEN_DECLASSIF-I-ED-ARE AVAILABLE_AT_NATIONAL ARCHIVES, AND THAT INFORMATION TO THIS EFFECT HAS BEEN POSTED ON THE INTERNET./ (FROM-THE-LOOKS AND DATES OF THE *DOCUMENTS, THEY MAY BE RELATED TO THE<JFK ASSASSINATION> INVESTIGATION). THANKS.

4./ FILE: 043-002-012/03. CL BY: 0541440. CL REASON: 1.5(B).
DECL ON: X5. DRV LIA 1-87-

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)