# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992


CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

16-26

27 SECRET

SAN SALVADOR

WH9

VR. FILE DISP, WHKAZ, CAZ, CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/C2, FI, FI/INT, SOD6.

ECRET 201440Z

DIR INFO NEXI WAVE CITE SALV 5513
WH DIN CUBA

REF A) HSSW-2195 (NOT SENT MEXI, WAVE)

B) DIR-7001

C) DIR-74952

SALV-5468 (IR 52564)

20 JAN 65 IN 63642

1. AMBASSADOR DELAINE FOLLOW UP APPROACH TO PRESIDE H

RIVERA PENDING RECEIPT OF LEXI GOVT REACTION IN Cuban Defictor SURFACING.

HE UNDERSTANDABLY WARY OF LETTING RIVERA TOO ENTHUSED OVER
PROPOSAL WHEN ADANA MEXICAN REJUCTION OF SURFACING NIGHT

TORPEDO OF. 21-26

2. WHILE SALV FELLS PAPER RECEIVED MEF A MILL

MAKE INTERESTING PRESENTATION. WE NOT CLEAR ON WHO SLATED TO
PRESENT IT. ASSUME PRESENTED BY Dyt State AT

REQUEST GOES

Cuban defector, WITH LATTER THER

BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO FURTHER DEBRIEFING. 16-26

3. -45-370/9854529, SI -72 8,19 STATION

FEELS IT WOULD BE UNDESIRABLE SURFACE NAMES OF TRAINEES
FOR FOLLOWING REASONS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

ING2642
Page 2

A. GOES WOULD HAVE TO ARREST ALL PERSONS MENTIONED OR IT WOULD APPEAR THAT GOES DOES NOT BELIEVE *Dilicta* INFO. ALTHO RIVERA INDICATED THAT HE WILLING TO MAKE THE ARRESTS, STATION 18-26 INCLINED TO DOUBT THAT HE WOULD FOLLOW THROUGH DUE FEAR OF STIRRING UP SALVADORAN LEFTISTS, AND LACK OF JURIDICAL GROUNDS FOR PROSECUTION.

B. ALTHO *Dilictor* HAD KNOWLEDGE THAT AT LEAST 75 SALVADORANS RECEIVED G/W TRAINING BETWEEN APRIL 1963 AND APRIL 1964, HE WAS ABLE TO FURNISH ONLY 35 NAMES. OF THESE, LESS THAN HALF ARE KNOWN TO BE TRUE NAMES. WE THUS FEEL THAT IT WOULD BE BETTER NOT TO MENTION ANY OF THE G/W NAMES, STAND ON THE 75 FIGURE, AND IMPLY THAT *Dilictor* HAS MADE NAMES OF ALL 75 AVAILABLE TO GOES WHO PRESUMABLY AWAITING PROPITIOUS TIME TO ROUND THEM UP.

C. G/W TRAINEES HAVE BEEN INACTIVE SINCE RETURN FROM CUBA AND ONLY RECENTLY STEPS BEING TAKEN BY FUAR MILITARY COMMISSION TO REACTIVATE THEM. SINCE *asset* IN KEY POSITION TO REPORT ON THIS BUILDUP, THERE IS GOOD CHANCE OF PASSIVE GOES INFO AT LATER DATE WHICH WOULD PERMIT THEM TO CATCH WHOLE GROUP RED HANDED WITH EVIDENCE ON WHICH THEY COULD BE PROSECUTED.

*Rejecto* INFO COULD BE USED AT THAT TIME TO BOLSTER GOES CASE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

16-26

4. 1-261 INTEL AGENTS SALVADOR, [STATION] COMMENTS.

ENTION IN TESTIMONY (PAGE 55 OF DRAFT PAPER) THAT CUBANS ALSO RECRUITED SALVADORANS AS INTEL AGENTS AND SURFACE

[Target] CASE [Dutton] DOSSIER AS EXAMPLE, WITHOUT MENTIONING [Target] CASES. THIS COULD AVOID SURFACING OF [Target] ASSETS WHO WOULD PROBABLY TURN INTO HOSTILE AGENT VIS-A-VIS [Target]

11-26 [STATION] IF HIS NAME MENTIONED. SURFACING OF [Target] CASE SHOULD BE PRECEDED BY AFREJI OF [Dutton] AND [Target] BY [GOES].

5. RE PAGE 55 OF DRAFT CAS PAPER, WE RECOMMEND DELETION OF DGI ESTIMATE THAT [GOES] PLANNING AGGRESSION AGAINST CU...

16-26 TO [STATION] KNOWLEDGE IT HAS NO BASIS IN FACT AND COULD BE COUNTERPRODUCTIVE FOR PROP PURPOSES OF PAPER.

16-26

6. IF FOREGOING RECOMMENDATIONS APPROVED BY HQS, [STATION] ENVISAGES FOLLOWING CHRONOLOGY SUBJECT TO [GOES] APPROVAL:

A. [GOES] KICKS OFF OPERATION BY ARRESTING PRINCIPALS IN [Target] CASE, WITH TELE ANNOUNCEMENT IN PRESS THAT [GOES] HAS EVIDENCE OF EXTENSIVE CUBAN PLOT WHEN IT TAKING TO OAS.

B. IN HAD [illegible] WILL REVEAL THAT ARNAL WAS GIVEN THE DETAILS OF CUBAN SUBVERSIVE EFFORT IN EL SALVADOR AND

![illegible]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Dipt Sale
indicato
PETITIONS ARE AVAILABLE TO TESTIFY.
IN 63642
PAGE 4
C. IN RESPONSE, DISTRIBUTES REVISED OF
REF A PAPER FOR STUDY BY CAS MEMBERS.

Aictor
THEN IS MADE AVAILABLE TO ANSWER QUESTIONS.
D.
7. REQUEST COMMENTS.
SECRET
CFN

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)