104-10174-10036 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

4 February 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with Renry P. Lopes at Carleton Hotal. PP/PA représentatives vere Horace Davis and Eveline Vidal. WH representatives were (Robert Reynolda) (Retcher) and (Philip Toomey Thompson). The mosting took place 15 Jamary 1960 1200 hours to 1540 hours.

He read the PP staff report on opposition groups (sanitized) and the report (ssnitized) on the (Indian political action operation.

(Lopes was briefed by Mr. Reynolds on the current situation in Cuba. He was given a check for $1300 and instructions to call Benjamin Avana at the Embassy and use the name Fred Horse.

Mr. Lopes stated that he foresaw no problems in getting around in Cuba. He mentioned that one of his friends in the Harvard Graduato School, Begino Boti Leon, was now in the Castro Cabinet) and that he and Boti hed dated the same girl who was now in New York. Ha intended to phong no the girl on his stop-over in New York to renew acquaintance.

Lopez was told about security precautions axl that Mr. Evens would brief hin further contacts to be made. Mr. Davis asked when he would be back here and Lopes) sald about the second of February. Davis said that we would tipe his remarks at that time (Lopes) was anked to keep eccurate account of his arrivals and departures for accounting paгрозев.

(P. TOCHKY)
WH//PP


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)