# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SE CT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MASFERRER Y ROTAS, COLANDO
201-72669
(VOL, VIII

INCLUSIVE DATES: / JAN. 66 THRU 31 DEC.66

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 4 AUG.78      |               | PAT ORR                  | *illegible signature*           |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OGC 66-2615

16 December 1966

The Honorable J. Walter Yeagley
Assistant Attorney General
Internal Security Division
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20530

Dear Walt:

After you informed me on 29 November 1966 of the possible indictment by the U. S. Attorney in Florida of Rolando Masferrer and others concerned in the plan to launch an expedition from Florida against President Duvalier of Haiti, I asked for a report on our knowledge of, or involvement in, this activity.

As you know, we have installations in the Miami area which utilise a variety of sensitive covers. The Chief of Station coordinates his activities closely with the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Bureau of Customs of the Department of the Treasury and disseminates to those offices in the area pertinent intelligence information.

Our Station was well informed on the plans of Masferrer and his cohorts and disseminated this information in the normal manner. Part of this reporting included information that Masferrer and some of his associates repeatedly asserted that their plotting had been approved by the U. S. Government. On some occasions they stated this approval came from this Agency, and the other times they intimated that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had approved their actions. These claims were apparently used to persuade various persons, primarily Cuban exiles, some of whom formerly had contact with the Agency, to join the plot. It appears logical to assume that Masferrer would continue to claim that he had received what he interpreted to be U. S. Government approval of the scheme to overthrow President Duvalier, and if he has

SECRET

![Seal]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECT

nothing more positive he can take the approach that he considered the U. S. Government tacitly approved his plot since it obviously knew about it and did not take any action against him.

For the record, it can be flatly stated that neither by statement nor by implication has the Central Intelligence Agency indicated to anyone that it approved or was supporting the plot. On the contrary, those who queried people they knew were connected with our Agency concerning possible participation in the plot were told that it had no U. S. Government backing whatsoever. Some of the plotters attempted to contact this Agency through various intermediaries, and the intermediaries were told that the Agency wished to have nothing to do with the undertaking and that any information concerning violations of U. S. laws should be passed to law enforcement agencies, particularly the Bureau of Customs and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Technically, therefore, the Agency has stayed clear of the plotters, and we would be in a position to state that we had no connection with the plot and had given it no encouragement or backing of any sort.

As a practical matter, however, if prosecution were pursued, Masferrer, and perhaps other defendants, would probably claim that they had CIA backing and some might even believe it to be true. This might well lead one or more defendants to seek a subpoena duces tecum for an Agency witness and the Agency documentation on the subject. As noted above, the witness can testify to the fact that the Agency had in no way participated or encouraged the activity. If it proved impossible to quash the requirement for production of documents, however, we would be faced with a situation where we would almost certainly have to claim the documents were privileged on the grounds of security. Aside from the sensitivity of the reports and their possible compromise of sources, we would have the problem of identification of our personnel under cover and of protecting the sensitive cover arrangements.

The same is true to a lesser extent of action against Masferrer in connection with violations of his parole. In view of the flagrant and numerous violations which were actually known to and reported by Government agencies without any punitive action resulting, it would appear that he could make a plausible claim that the Government had at least winked at, if

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

not condened, his activities. It would seem preferable to have him immediately put under a more stringent parole, perhaps with an accompanying requirement of bond. In the event he violated this new status, prompt action could be taken on those circumstances alone.

Sincerely,

Lawrence R. Houston
General Counsel

cc: The Honorable David C. Acheson
Special Assistant to the Secretary
(Tax Enforcement)
Department of the Treasury
Washington, D. C. 20220

ExDir-Comp
DDP
CI
Office of Security

133

SECRET

201-42669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

FBI doc
31 Dec 66 (Miami)
Re-Rolando Arcadis Mosferrer Rojas
Bureau# 2-156

FBI doc
16 Dec 66 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadis Masferrer
Rojas

FBI doc
7 Dec 66 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadis Mosferrer Rojas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

ORIG : A. WISNIOWSKI/
UNIT : WH/COG/NO/FI
EXT : 3458
DATE: 5 DEC 1966

MESSAULL FURR
TOTAL COPIESI 1
SECRET
201-42669

Nonerror
xxxxxxxxxxxxx
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: S/WH/COG-5 BUFO: VR, FILE RID COPY DOP/, OGC-2 c/wits, c/cl

SECRET
7 1415 Z CITE DIRECTOR 57687

IMWAVE
DRYBAT TYPIC

REF JMMAVE 4359 (IN 49628)

1. FOLLOWING RECEIVED FROM GENERAL COUNSEL IN RESPONSE REF.

2. REF REPORT IS EXCELLENT AND VERY USEFUL IN CONNECTION OGC DISCUSSIONS WITH DEPT OF JUSTICE.

3. TECHNICALLY, ON FACTS STATED, THERE DOES NOT APPEAR BE ANY REASON WHY WOFACT SHOULD OPPOSE INDICTMENT AND TRIAL OF MASFERRER. THIS BASED ON GROUND THAT WE COULD REFUTE ANY CLAIMS MASFERRER AND HIS COHORTS MADE OF WOFACT SUPPORT. UNFORTUNATELY, THIS DOES NOT RECOGNIZE TYPE OF SITUATION WOFACT LIKELY GET INTO IF INDICTMENT IS BROUGHT. WOFACT LEARNED THROUGH EXPERIENCE THAT DEFENSE COUNSEL ONLY TOO EAGER CLAIM WOFACT PARTICIPATION AND APPROVAL AS PART OF DEFENSE, AND IT NOT DIFFICULT FOR HIM TO LAY ENOUGH BASIS FOR COURT TO ISSUE A SUPOZNA DUCZS TECUM REQUIRING PRESENCE OF A WOFACT

(CONTINUED)

RELEASING OFFICER 7-3
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIESI

ORIG:
UUT:
EXT:
DATE:


FILE RID
INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NOL
SECRET


xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxca
ROUTING
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8

FROM: DIRECTOR
ODESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH
PLR

INFO: VR, FILE RID COPY

SECRET

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR 57687

WITNESS TOGETHER WITH ALL WOFACT DOCUMZSTATION ON TEZ SUBJECT. IN THE
BUFFALO B-26 CASE THIS WAS NOT TOO BAD AS ONLY DOCUMENTATION WAS FOUR
REPORTS IN WHICH THE INFO WAS NOT SENSITIVE, AND JUDGE AGREED TO
EXCISE SOURCE AND OTHER SENSITIVE INFO ZZFORE PAPERS WERE INTRODUCED
INTO ZVIDENCE.

4. IN MASFERRER CASE A SUBPOENA DUCES TECUM WOULD REQUIRE
   PRODUCTION OF ALL DOCUMENTS WE HAVE WHICH TOUCH ON YASZZRRER-HAITIAN
   PLAN AND ACTIVITY. OGC REASONABLY SURZ WOULD NOT 37 AELE HONOR SUCH
   SUBPOENA, AND DEPT OF JUSTICE AGREES WITH OCC. IT MUST BE REMEMBERED
   THAT PROCESS OF SUBPOENA AND PRODUCTION OF RECORDS WOULD PROBABLY COME
   TO ISSUE BEFORE WOFACT WOULD HAVE OPPORTUNITY TO INTRODUCE EVIDENCE
   TO REFUTE THE CLAIM OF OUR PARTICIPATION. IF WOFACT REFUSED TO EONOR
   SUBPOZKA, THE GOVI WOULD HAVE TO DROP ITS CRIMINAL CASE SO CHANCES
   SUCCESS ARE MINIYAL, BUT THE PROCESS WOULD DEVELOP EXTENSIVE PUBLICITY

(CONTINUED)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR
57687

PAGE THREE

WHICH EXPERIENCE SHOWS WOULD BE MOSTLY UNFAVORABLE AND WHOLE PROCEEDING
MIGHT WELL EXPOSE JYJAVE COVER AND OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES.

5. BASEDON OGC DISCUSSION OF ABOVE ASPECTS, DEPT OF JUSTICE FEELS
   INDICTMENT SHOULD NOT BE SOUGHT. ONE PROBLEM, HOWEVER, IS THAT CUSTOMS
   THINKS THEY HAVE HOT CASE AND WANT TO PURSUE IT. ACCORDINGLY, WITH
   AGREEMENT OF DEPT OF JUSTICE, OGC HAS TALKED TO DAVID C. ACHESON,
   DEPT OF TREASURY AND POINTED OUT PROBLEM. ACHESON IS LOOKING INTO IT
   AND OGC WILL PROBABLY CONTACT HIM IN NEXT FEW DAYS.

6. OGC STATES DOES NOT WISH HAVE JMWAVE BLAMED FOR INTERFERING
   WITH CUSTOMS CASE AND THAT JMWAVE CAN PUT THE FULL BURDEN ON OGC
   AND DEPT OF JUSTICE. OCC SUGGESTS, HOWEVER, THAT UNLESS JMWAVE IS
   APPROACHED BY CUSTOMS JMWAVE SHOULD MAKE NO MOVE UNTIL OGC GETS THINGS
   FIRMLY ESTABLISHED AT HQS.

END OF MESSAGE

JACCS D. ESTERLINE
for AC/WHD

OCC L. R. Houston (telecon) THOMAS J. FLORES
C/WA/COG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti

REPORT NO. 00-B-321/19112-66

SUBJECT Proposed Invasion Cancelled

DATE DISTR. 30 Nov 66

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES This report was previously disseminated as TD-005-321/19112-66

DATE OF INFO. 23 Nov 66 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. 23 Nov 66

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, soldier of fortune type with wide experience in Latin America. He is closely associated with Rolando Masferrer.

[This report was developed by a Navy representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. During the night of 22 Nov 66 a decision was reached to call off the proposed invasion of Haiti by the group sponsored by Rolando Masferrer. The invasion is off indefinitely.

2. Father Jean Baptiste Georges and Colonel Rene Leon have been arguing with Masferrer which has caused confusion and disorganization in the movement. Many Cubans scheduled to participate have pulled out and military chief Napoleon Villaboise (sic), a Cuban national and alleged military expert, has resigned because of dissension in the group.

3. It is believed that US Government agencies have infiltrated the movement and the leaders fear that all weapons and equipment would be confiscated if plans for the invasion proceeded.

- end -

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Confidential

Thursday - November 17, 1966

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION between

Andrew St. George -- CBS photographer.

William G. Bowdler.

SUBJECT: Invasion of Haiti

Andrew St. George called me from Miami.

He said that he and the CBS film crew, headed by a Mr. McMullin (phonetic), were back in Miami to cover the departure this weekend of the expedition which Rolando Masferrer was organizing to invade Haiti. St. George claimed that Masferrer had recruited 300 men and arranged for the use of one B-89, two C-46s and a large boat. He said that all the preparations were so much in the open that it was evident that Masferrer and his Haitian colleagues had received the "green light". Recent events in Haiti, plus Masferrer's activities, were attracting a lot of newsmen to Miami.

I told St. George that he was mistaken about the "green light". We will not tolerate violation of our neutrality laws. Our enforcement agencies, whose duty it is to enforce these laws, will not permit what he described taking place. I wanted him and those with whom he was dealing to be clear on this point. He said he would inform Mr. McMullin.

William G. Bowdler

cc: W.W Rostow

Bill Meyers

Linc Gerden/State.

Bill Broe/CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains intermation affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18. USC. Sect. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM
SECRET
NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti/Dominican Republic/ Bahamas
REPORT NO. 00-B-321/17879-66
SUBJECT Planned Invasion of Haiti between
5-13 και 66
DATE DISTR 7 Τον 66

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES This report vas previously disseminated as TD-OOB-
321/17879-66

DATE OF INFO. 26 Oct 66
PLACE &
DATE ACO -1 Μον 66
CIEL C-DC6-52851

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: 03 national with wide travel experience in Latin America. Es speaks some Spanish, and has many social and business contacts in the Lominican Republic.

[This report vas developed by a Kavy representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. On 28 Oct 66 I spoke with Rolando Masferrer Rojas, a Ciben exile, and he told me that he has organized a military force of approximately 250 men to invade Faiti. The invasion force consists of Cuban and Eaitian exiles residing in the U3, the Bahamas, and the Dominican Republic. The invasion vill probably be launched from the Dominican Republic sometime between 5 and 13 November and the target is Port-su-Prince. The invasion force vill strike in the early hours of the morning selected. It is vell arned, and will have air cover; the presidential palace vill be bombed.

2. Masferrer stated that Bigene L. Maximilien, Baitian Conmil in Miami, Florid, is aware of the invasion, but he has no knowledge of the invasion date. Maxinilien is presently in Haiti informing President Drelier that the invasion can be prevented by paying off $200,000 to Vasferrer. Hellion will return to the US on 3 November and be has agreed with Vasferrer thes if Duvalier agrees to the pay-off, Maximilien vill receive $50,000 and Masferrer $150,000.

3. asferrer told me that the invasion will take place in any event and the $150,000, if received, would be used to further support the invasion.

4. Masferrer stated that he met within the past 10 days with several dissident Haitian army officers and be had received their export. De Baitian army officers told Vasferrer that they would revolt as soon as informed that the invasion had commenced. They do not know that the target vill be Port-au- Princes they believe that it will be in the cap Esities area.

5. Masferrer stated that he was confident that the invesion will succeed, and if Frocess, Father Jean Baptiste Gearzes vouid be expointes provisional president. Masferrer stated that Colonel Rene Leos, Esties exile, vill houle garticipate in the invasion.

21-424698


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

FBI doc
28 Oct 66 (NY)
Re - Rolando Arcadia Mesfener
Lojas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT            | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                                                |
| ------------------------------ | ----------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| BI FILE No.                    |                         |                                                |
| DISPATCH DURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | DATE                    |                                                |
| ANALYST                        | 6. SATE PROCESSED       | 7. SOURCE CRYPTOUT 8. DATE OF 1976. EVALUATION |
|                                |                         | 11. BATS                                       |
| CROSS REFE 10 THIS FILE        | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION    | 18. TRASSERIES TO BI FILE                      |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFEPRER ROJAS, ROLANDO 100-009-016
201-042669 VDBB -63505
SEX A CUB ? 20 OCT 66
CIT 2 P2
OCC ?
RE INVOLVEMENT IN HAITIAN EXILE ACTIVITIES.

& 6701130960

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-0112669

![arrow pointing right]
SECRET

20 Oct LC
201-42169


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: Haiti

REPORT NO. CS-311/10608-67

SUBJECT: Illegal Plan by President Francois Duvalier to Have Anti-Duvalier Revolutionaries in Miami, Florida, Assassinated

DATE DISTR. 13 October 1967

NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO: 21 September 1967

PLACE & DATE ACQ: United States, Miami (26 September 1967)

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-9090

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: Former Latin American diplomat who maintains relations with officials of Latin American countries. Source is a trained reporter and his information has been reliable in the past. He obtained this information from Aurea Esther Poggio.

1. On 21 September 1967 in Miami, Florida, Aurea Esther Poggio, Cuban emigre who is a secretary to Rolando Masferrer Rojas said that plans had been made to assassinate persons linked with revolutionary movements in Miami opposing President Francois Duvalier of Haiti. Poggio said that the first such attempt was against Julio Aton Constanzo Palau on 17 September 1967.

2. Poggio said that Masferrer's group was investigating the matter in an effort to find out who was carrying out the assassination plans for Duvelier.2

1. Field Comment: Constanzo, Cuban emigre, was among those indicted with Masferrer, former Cuban senator, and Father Jean Baptiste Georges, Haitian emigre, by a federal grand jury in Miami in February 1967 on charges of conspiring to launch an invasion of Haiti from the Florida Keys. No coverage of an attempt to kill Constanzo has been noted in the local press.

2. Headquarters Comment: According to IDCS-314/08723-67, about mid-1967 Duvalier instructed Andre Elie, Haitian Consul in New York, to keep close surveillance on Haitian exiles and to report all plans for invasions of Haiti.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE |
| ----- |
| DIA   |
| ARMY  |
| CICSO |
| NAVY  |
| AIR   |
| NSA   |
| AIO   |
| GCB   |

SEZZT SERVICE (PID) (Also sent Port-au-Prince)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

| FROM        | TO                 |
| ----------- | ------------------ |
| 1           | WH/PACY (CICSO) -1 |
| 1           | WH/7/D3            |
| 1           | SI/NA              |
| 1           | WH/ET/CM           |
| 3           | WA/COG/2R          |
| 1           | WA/MA/E            |
| UTG-9090    |                    |
| SP          |                    |
| (DOAMBER-6) |                    |
| CS-311/     |                    |
| CS/2        |                    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION               |                     |                  |               |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ---------------- | ------------- |
|                     | RI FILE NO.                           |                     |                  |               |
|                     | 5. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 6. DATE             |                  |               |
| 8. ANALYST          | 9. DATE PROCESSES                     | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM | 8. DATE OF INFO. | 9. EVALUATION |
|                     |                                       | 10. DISSEMINATED TO | 11. DATE         |               |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. GROUPS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO OF FILE NO. |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
100-C09-016
UFG-08589
12 OCT 66
ACTIVITY OF ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS
AND FATHER JEAN BAPTISTE GEORGES IN
PREPARING FOR ACTION AGAINST HAITI

MOCHTP
R 6610210178,

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-42669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

4. DATE

5. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

7. SOURCE CRYPTO; DATE OF INFO.

8. EVALUATION

9. ANALYST

9. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
    BY FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669
SEX M COS 7

CIT ?
OCC ?

201-002705
LIFG -08588
12 OCT 66

REPORTEDLY ANDREW ST. GEORGE, A FREE-LANCE PHOTOGRAPHER, HAD RECEIVED
PERMISSION FROM MASFERRER TO MAKE A FILM FOR THE COLUMBIA BROADCASTING SYSTEM
CONCERNING THE ACTIVITIES OF THE MAS-
FERRER GROUP WITH RESPECT TO AN INVASION OF HAITI TO BE MOUNTED FROM THE DR

R 6610190209

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-42669

SECRET

120CT66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASFERRER ROLAACC
201-042665
SEX M COR ?

CIT 2
GCC 2

IN EARLY MAR 66 CCAZALES, ELSIUIA /201-787753/ ACCOMPANIED SUBJ TO AVC TAKING ME WOULD HELP LIEFKATE CLEA BUT FINDING HER FALSE, SHE LEFT MASFERRER AND MOVED ABOUT BYC LIVING WITH FRIENDS. PASIIKKIR STATED IN APR 66 HE DID ALT TRUST CLA/ALLY AND FELT SHE WOULD RETURN TO CUBA

6610260297

FILE IN 201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

INDEX YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-42164 LASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

DISSEM BY 25 PEC-17
ACTION WH/C/8 RID COPY ALYANCE COPY
FILE NR, WH8 SEENE W/6, SSO CAZ, Cu/eoe, ci/coF c/i/4
Cl, Citors, cilez, CIPE FT, FIE fi/INT 14, Hoop Se, of 25/4

23 Sept. 2597
SECRET 231938Z CITE WAVE 3193 (JM/MRST ACT LE)

DIRECTOR INFO SANTO DOMINGO, PORT AU PRINCE

TYPIC

REFERENCES: A. JM/WAVE 3141 (in coel?)
B. JM/WAVE 3153 (in c0931)

1. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON FUNK AND DUNKIN CITED

PARAS TWO AND FIVE REF A AS FOLLOWS:

A. ADDRESS FOR ROSWELL FUNK IS NEW YORK OFFICE OF
C3S.

B. ADDRESS GIVEN FOR FOSSA T. DUNKIN IS HIS CURRENT RESIDENCE.
PRIOR MARCH 65 HE LIVED AT 215 TWELFTH STREET
N.E. ATLANTA GEORGIA, WORKED FOR ATLANTA NEWS AS COPY READER
AND HELD THIS JOB SINCE AUGUST 64. PRIOR TO THIS DATE
DUNKIN WORKED FOR PALM BEACH POST.

2. FYI COORDINATOR FOR CUBAN AFFAIRS MIAMI REPORTED ON
   22 SEPTEMBER THAT LOCAL L/MYAPA HAD LOCATED AND STAYED OUT TAG
   BOATS BEING LEASED BY ROLANDO MASFERRER. ALLEGEDLY THESE
   BOATS WILL BE USED TO TRANSPORT ARMS TO LARGER MOTHER VESSEL
   LOCATED OFF FLORIDA COAST. ACCORDING L/MYAPA CURRENT

> [Figure: Image of partially obscured text.]

ARMS SHIPMENT EXPECTED TO BE AT LEAST ONE HUNDRED TONS AND
OTHER RECOVER WEAPONS ABOARD AND IN SAME

23 Sept. 1966
201-42469


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

J.E.TOMAS;sld
UNIT: WH/7/Haiti
EXT: 5595
DATE: 22 Sept. 1966

TOTAL COPIES: 31

FROM: DIRECTOR
COM: WH-8 RID COPY
INFO: VA FILE • WH/C-8, SODE, DOP
AddP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/FIT-2

23 [17 00 Z] CITE DIRECTOR 37582

PORT AU PRINCE, JMWAVE, SANTO DOMINGO,
SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS
-PRIORITY-
REF: JMWAVE 3153 (IN 00931)

1. FOR YOUR INFORMATION: ON 6 SEPTEMBER 1966, FREELANCE
   PHOTOGRAPHER ANDREW ST. GEORGE REPORTED FOLLOWING TO WILLIAM
   LATIN AMERICAN REFERENT ON ROSTOW STAFF
   G. BOWDLER, STATE DEPARTMENT REPRESENTATIVE AT WHITE HOUSE:

ST. GEORGE IS ON A CBS CREW FILMING A STORY OF GUNRUNNING
FROM THE U.S. TO THE D.R. FOR USE SGAINST HAITI. CREW HAD
COMPLETED ITS FILMING IN MYAMI AND SOON WOULD TRAVEL TO
SANTO DOMINGO TO FILM OPERATION AT THAT END. ROLANDO MASFERRER
AND MITCHELL WARBEL (PHONETIC) HAD PERMITTED ST. GEORGE TO FILM
LARGE ARSENAL IN MASFERRER'S HOUSE IN MIAMI. WARBEL DESCRIBED
AS A SOLDIER OF FORTUNE/ARMS MERCHANT FROM ATLANTA WHO ASSISTING
MASFERRER IN ACQUIRING ARMS. WARBEL SUPPOSEDLY RESPONSIBLE FOR
SEIZURE OF MANUEL RAY'S VESSEL "VENUS" WITH ARMS ABOARD IN
DOM REP. PLOTTERS PLAN TO USE BEATA ISLAND AS BASE. ARRANGEMENTS
IN DOM REP BEING HANDLED THROUGH SANTIAGO REY, MARTINEZ ARANA

....CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR

RID COPY

CITE DIRECTOR 37582

PORT AU PRINCE, JMWAVE, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS

AND OTHERS. PRES BALAGUER HAS GIVEN NOD TO OPERATION.

2. BOWDLER EXPRESSED DOUBT TO ST. GEORGE CONCERNING BALAGUER'S COMPLICITY AND ASSURED ST. GEORGE THAT U.S. LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES WOULD TAKE NECESSARY ACTION.

3. ON 20 SEPTEMBER, RELIABLE SENSITIVE SCORCE REPORTED THAT EX ROLANDO MASFERRER MADE AN OFFER TO A COMMUNICATIONS MEDIUM OF ADVANCE STORY OF AN INVASION WHICH HE PLANNING, ON CONDITION THAT STORY BE HELD UNTIL AFTER ACTION STARTS, IN MAKING OFFER, HE REFERRED TO HIS SALE TO CBS OF FILMS OF HAITIANS IEC TRAINED FOR INVASION.

4. HQS REALIZES THIS PROBABLY ANOTHER IN LONG LINE OF RUMORS OF INVASION OF HATTI BUT KEQUESTS STATIONS WATCH THIS MATTER EVEN 17 ONLY REALITY INHERENT THEREIN IS THAT KASPERRER IS ENGAGING IN SELF-PROMOTION SCHEME.

5. FOR PORT AU PRINCE: PLS INVORM AMBASSADOR OF ABOVE.

"....CONTINUED

SECRET

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR

TO: PORT AU PRINCE, JMWAVE, SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS.

CITE DIRECTOR 37582

6. FOR SANTO DOMINGO: SUGGEST COS BRIEF EMANTHEM-1 ON SUBSTANCE OF NEXT MEETING.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: REPORT OF MASFERRER CLAIM THAT SMALL FORCE WILL LEAVE BY BOAT FOR DOM REP TO SET UP BASE FOR SUBSEQUENT ATTACKS ON HAITI AND CUBA, AND THAT HE HAS SUPPORT OF DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT.

![signature of William V. Broe]
William V. Broe
C/WED

![signature of David Ronis]
David Ronis
C/WH/7/DR
(by phone)
Ernest Chiocca
WH/C/MO/PM

![signature of Paul V. Harwood]
Paul V. Harwood
C/WH/7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

21 September 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Liaison Meeting with FBI New York Agent Frank O'Brien

1. At 1500 hours on 13 September, Ken Millian and I met with FBI Cuban specialist Frank O'Brien at a cafe/coffee shop at 72ad St. and 3rd Ave., two blocks away from the Bureau's New York headquarters. I had arranged the meeting by telephone from Washington and advised C'Brien that I wanted to review and coordinate a number of items with him. I also informed him that I would be accompanied by Millian, a colleague interested in the Cuban UN Mission.

2. The meeting opened at an easy pace with an uninhibited review of happenings of mutual interest: O'Brien noted that in his view the Cubans at the Mission had been relatively inactive and had not recently been involved in subversive activities of any magnitude. He reviewed FBI coverage of as yet not fully explained purchasing activity by Mission personnel which included procurement from various New York area military surplus cutlets of ponchos, leggings, and other similar equipment. He implied that in the process of covering the activities, the Bureau had acquired a substantial amount of surplus equipment itself but he didn't provide details and we didn't pursue the matter.

3. He noted that blanket Bureau coverage of the activities of Rolando Masferrer was continuing and that he occasionally talked with Masferrer by telephone or in person. He indicated that the Bureau was intimately aware of efforts on the part of Masferrer and other Cubans both in New York and Florida to procure arms in the U.S. and position then in the Dominican Republic. He reported that an attempt to move a shipment of such arms from the Florida Keys to the D.R. currently was underway and that the U.S. Customs Service was alerted to move in at the appropriate time to confiscate the material. (Although acknowledging Masferrer's gangster background, O'Brien complemented him on his intelligence and efficiency and indicated that Masferrer was one of the ablest Cuban refugees he had met.)

4. O'Brien also surfaced his current contact with former Rebel Army Captain Raimundo F. Antonio de la Torre


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

Ugarte, 81-11 Pettit Ave., Elmhurst, Long Island, tel. NR 2-5487. De la Torre apparently is involved with Cuban refugees in the U.S. who are attempting to re-establish the 26th of July Movement here in the United States minus the Communist implications contributed by Fidel. O'Brien apparently is impressed with De la Torre's sincerity and ability and belicves that De la Torre should be of interest to us. De la Torre has until recently stayed away from exile activities and according to O'Brien is pushing the revitalized 26th of July idea by personal contact rather than make any splash. According to O'Brien De la Torre is now operating a successful painting business and at one time held a good position with Union Carbide International. In conversations with O'Brien De la Torre has been critical of CI... When queried O'Brien indicated that De la Torre's only real gripe was the Bay of Pigs. (C/O note: We should look into De la Torre to see if he could be used in any revitalized effort abroad to establish lines of access to nen-Communist 26th of Julyers still in Cuba - Carlos Franqui etc.) We indicated that we would evaluate information available to us and discuss De la Torre with him again in the future.

5. Note: O'Brien has been working the Cuban target in New York for over ten years and is impressively conversant with the subject. It is, therefore, sometimes difficult to stay with him wher. he covers various complicated subjects with abbreviated statements, e. g., during subject meeting, he alluded to one Miguel Morales, the former husband of Nellie Barletta, daughter of Batista's ambassador to Argentina Anleto Barletta. He apparently feels there may be mileage in Morales. We will, therefore, review Morales, Barletta, et al, and resurface the subject with him when time permits.

6. The two principal action items on my agenda were the coordination of my planned luncheon meeting with photo-journalist Lee J. Lockwood (201-78771), and discussion of NEKNIFE, who allegedly was interviewed by the Bureau in New York several years ago. O'Brien advised me that he had reviewed their Lockwood file and talked with the Bureau agent responsible for the Lockwood "case". He stated that he had not uncovered any derogatory information on Lockwood and saw no reason to prevent my meeting with him. I told him I would advise him of my meeting arrangements with Lockwood when they were firm and that I would brief him after the meeting was over. (It is of interest to note that during my briefing of O'Brien on the morning of the 16th, the day following my luncheon with Lockwood, O'Brien noted that some of his superiors in Washington thought Lockwood was an opposition (sic) "spy". When I asked if there was anything to support this

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET

(Red faction - why
suddenly disc.
contact now with Souza?)

theory, O'Brien said absolutely not, it was pure speculation.)

7. O'Brien checked the Bureau's New York indices on NEKNIFE Lut without success. If he was in fact interviewed by the FBI in New York there apparently was no record of it. I told him that NEKNIFE was expected in New York City in late September to visit his daughter and son-in-law and that we probably would attempt a meeting with him at the time. He had no objection.

8. Specific items of business concluded, we moved into a general and historical discussion of the Cuban Hission to the UN, which was the main purpose of Millian's attendance at the meeting. Recent changes in Mission personnel, including the assignment of Ricardo Alarcón Quesada (201-347550) as Ambassador, were discussed and itineraries of Cutans arriving for the General Assembly were noted. Early in the conversation, O'Brien surfaced his long term contact_with Cuban UN Advisor and Alternate Representative Antonio de Souza Carvajal (201-354048), a friend of Cuban Foreign Minister Raúl Roa, who has served the Cubans in New York for the past ten years or more and has been with the Cuban Foreign Service for 40 years. The Souza subject was not new to me, since O'Brien had brought it up in conversations I had with him earlier this year. I did not choose to pursue the subject with him at that time, however, without first reviewing all implications of the case with Agency officials in Washington. O'Brien indicated no interest in Miguel Juan Alfonso Martinez (201-354041), Counselor at the Mission, whom we suspected they might be in contact with.

9. O'Brien's eagerness to discuss the Souza matter seems to imply that he is deeply interested in it and may suggest that he is not satisfied with results thus far obtained. At one point he indicated that his headquarters was not at all happy with the take from Souza. He reviewed the history of the contact with complete candor beginning with his initial contacts with Souza in the mid/late 1950's when O'Brien had open access to the Cuban Mission in New York and was a frequent visitor there. From his description, Souza would appear to be a thoroughly experienced and skilled diplomat who has survived the numerous changes in the Cuban government because of his friendship with Roa and other influential Cubans, and because of his ability to implement effectively for the Cubans the more subtle diplomatic maneuvers required by membership in the UN community. In fact, O'Brien feels that the Cubans utilize Souza exclusively on these latter duties and tend to exclude him from high level matters involving political, military, or economic policy.

3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

This, according to O'Brien, accounts for Souza's inability to provide information of real value. O'Brien did indicate, however, that the usual P.I. requirements had no punch. He cited, for example, the requirements after Souza's return from Hawaii, which in effect amounted to: What's new?

10. Despite the long history of the Souza contact, O'Brien is not now meeting with Souza in person. Souza feels that O'Brien is too well known in the Cuban community in New York and even the most elaborate contact arrangements would not be free of danger. Souza also shys away from talking on his home phone for fear that it may be tapped. O'Brien can, however, telephone Souza and lay on alternate telephone oz even meeting arrangements. We did not establish the frequency of O'Brien's current contacts with Souza nor did we establish at what point in the history of the contact the decision was made to dispense with personal meetings; the.. nature of our meeting with O'Brien did not permit elaborate and detailed questioning. He did recount, however, an interesting aspect of the case which followed from the fact that a State Department security officer assigned to New York, (fnu) Swazey, occupied the apartment directly above Souza during his tour in New York and became quite friendly with Souza. O'Brien apparently used Swazey as an informal go- betweer on the case. (Should we choose to pursue the Souza lead, an attempt perhaps should be made to locate and debrief Swazey with O'Brien's concurrence. Note: This could be Anthony Clinton Swezey, DOB 9 August 1913, who was Special Assistant to Secretary General of U.S. Mission to UN 1946 to 1947. In 1963 he was First Secretary, FSO-2, in Paris.)

11. It is difficult at this point to identify with accuracy the true nature of O'Brien's tie with Souza. Based upon O'Brien's comments, it does not appear that Souza should be classified as an "agent" of the Bureau in the classical sense, particularly at this point when there apparently are so formal arrangements for contact, no remuneration or even instructions given, and apparently no reports received from Souza. It is probable that a critical point in this operation was reached about three years ago when, according to O'Brien, Souza talked about his advancing age (now 65), his retirement equities with the Cuban government, and his financial needs in general. O'Brien thought that Souza was looking for guarantees which would provide for his future should he choose to cooperate fully and ultimately be surfaced and forced to forego his retirement and remain in the U.S. O'Brien apparently presented Souza's case to his superiors but was unable to generate any substantial enthusiasm. He stated they were not willing to give Souza a stipend. The

4

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SECRET

Bureau's position, both then and now, apparently is that Souza has little potential as an asset for internal security natters and therefore would not justify any substantial fi- nancial obligation. In very low key, it was made clear to O'Brien that the Agency was interested in Souza's Positive Intelligence potential (his access in Havana should be good, given his long friendship with Roa and his closeness to María Celia Girona Fernández (201-327421), cousin of Celia Sánchez Mandaley) and well might find justification for pro- viding modest security for Souza's old age.

12. Throughout our conversation it appeared clear that O'Brien was of the opinion that there may be a role for the Agency in the Souza operation. We asked him, therefore, whether or not he felt Souza may still be interested in feath- ering his nest and, if so, if it would be bureaucratically possible to get word to Souza that such a possibility existed. O'Brien felt that Souza would still be interested and he was of the opinion that he could get the point across to. Souza via double talk in a telephone conversation. This ap- proach was accepted and it was agreed that O'Brien would ad- vise us of the results after the call was made. If prospects appeared encouraging, it was agreed that we would then get together again to discuss the next step which might entail arranging direct contact with Souza. O'Brien noted that Souza lives in Jackson Heights and usually drives to work. Possibly a contact could be arranged somewhere along the route. The foregoing generally covers the extent of our discussion. regarding Souza. When I met with O'Brien again on 16 Sep- tember just prior to my departure for Washington, I requested that he not take any action on the Souza case in our behalf until he heard something further from re.

13. During our meeting we reviewed other members of the Cuban Mission with particular reference to CGI types. O'Brien noted that Chafik Homero Saker Zenni (201-335014) undoubted- ly is the senior member of the DGI group but even so he was not thought to be particularly active. He reported that Saker had been in contact with Lee Lockwood (see above) on several recent occasions but nothing was known of the nature of the meetings. He also noted that the Bureau was in con- tact with Saker's Cuban girl friend in New York City whom they had just traced without surfacing any derogatory infor- mation. She is cooperating and the Bureau is optimistic about her potential. He did not provide the girl's name but indicated that we should hear about her shortly through chan- nels. O'Brien also acknowledged that the Bureau has a pene- tration of Prensa Latina in New York. He did not provide the nase or any details but on the basis of his comments we pre-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

sumed it to be Francisco V. Portella (201-281963). It would be helpful if we could obtain additional details or both these latter cases.

14. Without prompting, O'Brien surfaced the AMBIG-3 double agent case. He noted that he had been involved to a degree and actually was present at the hotel bar in downtown New York when the agent made his meet with the Cuban czse officer. O'Brien, accompanied by at least one other Bureau nan, reported that AMBIG-3 winked at them while passing close by them at the bar on one occasion. O'Brien took this to nean that AMBIG-3 presumed that O'Brien and his friend were Bureau men assigned to surveil the meeting. O'Brien also stated that after his meeting with his Cuban DGI contact, AMBIG-3 called for an emergency meeting with the Bureau and they gave him $200.

15. It was close to 2000 hours before our meeting terminated. We parted on a cordial note with agreement reached that we would talk soon again when some of the material discussed had been further sifted.

![Signature of John R. Lucey]

SECRET

20-42667


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

FBI doc
14 Sep 66 (Miami)
Re-Rolando Arcadio
Masferrer Rojas

FBI doc
7 Sep 66 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadio Masferrer Rojas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# LIMITED OFFICIAL USE

MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION September 6, 1966

SUBJECT: Andrew St. George -- free lance photographer now working with CBS

Mr. St. George came to see me at his request. I have known him from the time that he went to Cuba in the late fifties to film the Castro movement.

He said he wanted to see me as an old friend to tell me that CBS is film-ing a story of gun-running from the U.S. to the D.R. for use against Haiti. He is working with the CBS crew.

Mr. St. George said that the CBS team had completed its filming in Miami and in the near future would be travelling to Santo Domingo to film the operation at that end. He claimed that in Miami Rolando Masferrer and Mitchell Warbel (phonetic) had permitted him to film what he described as a large arsenal in Masferrer's house.

In response to my question about the identity of Warbel, he said that he is a soldier-of-fortune - arms merchant type from Atlanta who is working with Masferrer in the acquisition of arms. St. George claimed that Warbel had been responsible for the seizure of Manuel Ray's vessel "Venus" in the Dominican Republic and the acquisition of the arms (mostly sub-machine guns) which were on board.

St. George stated that the base in the Dominican Republic was on Pesta Islant. Arrangements in the DR are being handled through Santiago Rey with Martires Araña and others whom he did not name. St. George said that Balaguer had given his nod to the operation. I told him that I did not believe there was any truth to this latter point as President Balaguer has recently normalized diplomatic relations with Haiti and is not interested in foreign adventures of this type.

In closing, St. George said he had come to see me because he believed that someone in the United States Government should know about the gun-running and the CBS film. I told him that our law enforcement agencies

LIMITED OFFICIAL USE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

LINITED OFFICIAL USE

-2-

Were aware of Masferrer's past activities and would take whatever action is necessary to prevent violation of our laws. On the film. I told him that I seriously doubted whether an objective treatment of the facts of Haitian and Cuban exile efforts would add up to the type of story he described. Therefore, I questioned the wisdom of making such a film. He responded that the facts were quite different from what I thought.

William G. Bowdler

*   Mr. Rostow
*   Mr. Bill Moyers
*   Mr. Robert Sayre, State - ARA
*   Mr. Edward T. Long - State/ARA-CAR
*   Mr. Robert Stevenson - State/ARA-CCA
*   Ambassador John Crimmins - Embassy, Santo Domingo.

LIMITED C7ZICIAL USE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

FBI loc

12 July '66 (NY)

Re Rolando Arcadio Masferrer

Rojas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

8 July 1966

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: The Activities of Rolando MASPERRER Rojas

1.  Reference is made to a memorandum from this office, Subject: Plot to Overthrow Haitian Government, dated July 6, 1966, concerning a visit to a farm in the Atlanta, Georgia area by an informant who witnessed the loading of arms at the farm for shipment to temporary cache sites in homes in Miami and Coral Gables, Florida; the pickup of arms from these homes; their transfer to small boats already on trailers; and the offloading of latter at Miami River docking sites for shipment to Santo Domingo and ultimate sites on the Haitian Coast. While the information below may not be related to the incident reported in reference, the similarity of the two reports merits attention.

2.  A friend of Rolando MASFERRER Rojas told a usually reliable source of this office that on 27 June 1966 MASFERRER went to a house in Miami where 200 firearms were stored. He was accompanied by two American newsmen, one of whom was a photographer. The arms were removed from the premises by agents of MASFERRER whose faces were covered. The American photographer took photographs during the removal of the arms.

3.  The same usually reliable source of paragraph two reported in conjunction with the above that as of early July 1966, action groups such as the Second National Front of the Escambray, ALPHA-66, Comandos-L, and Los Pinos Nuevos, possessed only small quantities of arms. The only substantial amount of arms in the area was in the hands of KASYZRRER.

4.  This information is being disseminated to the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Department of State.

WM/C/CICS/J. Vidal:kcj

Distribution:

2 - Department of State

3 - FBI

4 - WH/C/CICS

1 - 201-42669

Based On:

AMBIDDY/1

Raw Report, Miami

28 June 1966

![handwritten id]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# FORM 3015

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL LIBE ONLY

INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION CARLE

DATE - 12 JUNE 66
IN-
PAGE 1 OF PAGES

The following intelligence information, transmitted from a CIA Field Station, Fequires review within the Clandestine Services before being released outside the Agency. Panding results of this review, a cupy to being provided for your advance information.

Distribution for BACKGROUND USE ONLY to SDO 2. DDI 20, DIANE

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPLELIC/HAITI/CUBA

DOI: 13-14 JUNE 1966

SUBJECT: PLANS OF ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, FORMER CUPAN

SENATOR, FOR ACTION AGAINST HAITI FROM IZE

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

ACQ: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 JUNE 1956) UFG-2382

SOURCE: FORMER LATIN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WHO MAINTAIKS

FRALATIONS WITH OFFICIALS OF LATIN AMERICAN

COUNTRIES. HE IS TRAINED REPORTER AND HIS

INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST.

1. ON 13 JUNE 1956 IN MIAMI, FORIDA, ROLANDO

ASFERRER ROJAS, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR, SAID THAT HE HAD

REVISED HIS PLANS FOR ACTION AGAINST PRESIDENT FRANCOIS

DEVALIER OF HAITI TO INCLUDE THE COOPERATION OF SANTIAGO

PEY PERKA. REY HAD SAID THAT MASFERRER WOULD BE ALLOWED

TO TAKE A VESSEL WITH SIX OR SEVEN MEN TO THE DOMINICAL

REPUBLIC AFTER JOAQUIN ZALAGUER IS INSTALLED AS PRESIDENT

SALES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

FORM 3007

IN -

TDCS

PAGE of 3 PAGES

OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN JULY. MASFERRER, HIS COUSIN ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER, AND ATON CONSTANZO PALAU WOULD BE AMONG THOSE ON THE VESSEL.

2. FIELD COMMENT: REY, A CUBAN EMIGRE WHO WAS A CABINET MINISTER UNDER FULGENCIO BATISTA ZALDIVAR, WENT TO THE DOMINICAN PUBLIC IN APRIL TO ACT AS AN ADVISER TO BALAGUER DURING THE ELECTORAL CAMPAIGN. 1Η ΧΙΑΣ ΙΝ MID-JUNE, HE REPORTEDLY PLANNED TO RETURN TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. SEE ALSO UFG-8378, WHICH REPORTED THAT ACCORDING TO REY HE HAD BEEN OFFERED THE USE OF A FINCA IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR ANTI-CASTRO CUERRILLA TRAINING. ANOTHER SOURCE, WHO HAS BEEN REIABLE IN THE PAST, REPORTED THAT REY WAS CONFERRIKE WITH POLAIDO PASFERRER AND ANTONIO ROJAS ON 14 JUKE. CONSTANZO PALAU, CUBAN EMIGRZ IN MIAMI, HAS BEEN REPORTED EARLIER AS INVOLVED WITH ROLANDO MASFERRER IN PLANS FOR ANTI-DUVALIER ACTION.)

E. PASFERRER ASSERTED THAT IN ORDER TO MISLEAD AUTHORITIES OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNEMNT CUSE) AND THUS PREVENT INTERFERENCE, THE GROUP ON THE VESSEL YOULD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

FOR-3007
1-65

IN- 40002
TDCS
PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET
(Actual Session) (dissem controle)

GO TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC OSTENSIBLY AS REVOLUTIONARIES AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO RUZ. HE ADDED THAT AS ANOTHER PRECAU- TION AGAINST DIFFICULTIES WITH THE USG, THE GROUP WOULD NOT USE UNITED STATES ARMS OR ATTEMPT TO TRANSPORT ARMS FROM THE UNITED STATES. MASFERRER SAID THAT HENRI VIXAMAR HAD ARMS ELSEVIERE, AND THAT THE ATTACK AGAINST HAITI WOULD BE LAUNCHED FROM THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.

FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO SOURCE, MASFERRER DID NOT YET HAVE VESSEL. VIXAMAR, A HAITIAN EMIGRE WHO HAS BEEN RESIDING IN CANADA SINCE MID-FRIL, KAS BEEN DESCRIZED EARLIER AS IN CHAREZ OF THE PLANS FOR ACTION AGAINST DUVALIER.)

4. FIELD DISSEN: CECSO, CINLANT, COMXWEST FOR, MIANE REPS OF STATE, FBU, I&NS, CUSTOMS, USCC, BOARDER PATROL ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO, PORT AU PRINCE)

REPORT CLASSCONFIDENTIAL NO FOREISE DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEY.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

12-65 WHICH IS OBSOLETE

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-0410 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
S-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DESEM RY 28
ACTION
WH 8
RID COPY
UNIT
TIME
CSDO 02053 D
INFO VR. FILE. ADDP. CA 2, A/PEG. CA/PROP. CI/OPS. CI/IC 2. FI. FI/D FI/INT CS/DO
DCI, D/DCI, DOP, CS/RF, SOD 4, CA/O 4, CI, CI/PS, CS/29A, M.

SECRET 17233UZ CITE WAVE 1553

ABSTRACT

DIRECTOR INFO SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO DE LOS CABALLEROS,

PORT AU PRINCE, PANAMA CITY, REPLANT, JIBAR

INTEL DYVOUR JM.PALM PERUMEN

18.ES:40092

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. NO PROJECT. SOURCE UOAPBER-6 FROM EMILIO

VERA LEYVA FROM ROLANDO MASFERRER. SOURCE MENTIONED FIRST

FILED COMMENT UOAMBER-2.

NO INDEX FILED 1723312

S-E-C-R-E-T

UFG 8382

JUI-42669
18 June 1966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IP 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO
    BI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

PASFERRER ROJAS, ROLANDO
201-042669 100-609-014
SEX M COB ? DBB -50924
17 JUN 66
CIT ? FBI
OCC ?

RE NASFERRER WAS EVER REALLY SINCERE IN OVER-
THROWING THE GOVERNMENT OF HAITI AND ESTABL-
ISHING A BASE ON THE COAST OF HAITI, FROM
WHICH ATTACKS WOULD BE MADE AGAINST ORIENTE
PROVINCE, CUBA.

R 6608101426

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-42669

SECRET
17 Jan 66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

- FBI doc
- 25 May 66 (NY)
- Re- Rolando Arcadia Masferrer
- Rojos


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM: RID/AN

PROPER FILE NO 4P

MICROFILMED JUN 21 1966

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK APPROPRIATE

DOC. MICRO. SER.

| TO         | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICERS INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                    |
| ---------- | ------- | ------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. WH/REG  |         |               |                |                   | RL Insufficient fro. we have 201-43686 on me. Harius, Bill. |
| 2.         |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 3. WH/CIES |         | 26 may 66     |                |                   | 24 May 66 saw copy catalaa K13/201/Wkasa                    |
| 4.         |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 5. WHERE   |         |               |                | de                |                                                             |
| 6. R/AN    |         |               |                | RL                |                                                             |
| 7.         |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 8.         |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 9.         |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 10.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 11.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 12.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 13.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 14.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 15.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 16.        |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |
| 17. RID/FI |         |               |                |                   |                                                             |

MICROFILMED 1966 MAY 23 PM 1:08

CSOB-312-0615-66

I.10 PROC BSING SUSPELJED P ZASE INDICATE HADING

NOTE: This Doru 2: anumite of the C? Looks 3, bat Cain Lu, Desired Handing is Caecked Above and the Deceuntil Louwned to Bi

![photo of boxes containing several statements about document classifications and handling instructions]

ABSTRACT

201-42669

201-42669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# REPORT COVER SHEET

S E C R E T

REPORT NO: UFG-8288

DATE OF REPORT: 17 May 1966

PROJECT: AHOT

PROCESSING ACTION

COVER SHEET
MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED
OPS DATA REPORTED SEPARATELY

CS DISSEMINATION

TOCS DISSEMINATION

FROM: TMWAVE

REPORTING OFFICER: Henry J. SLOMAN

REPORTS OFFICER: Eleanor D. AIMSLER/vkl

SOURCE CRYPT:

INTRA-AGENCY

*   4 - Hqs
*   1 - DCS
*   2 - Port-au-Prince HTP
*   2 - Ottawa

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

EXTRA-AGENCY

State
FBI
Customs
Border Patrol
USCG
OCO

SUPPLEMENTAL DATA: DYVOUR/JMPALM

SOURCE: AMOT Source Raul APANGO de la Hoval in EE 5237, 10 May 1966. ARANGO got the information in a conversation with Antonio ROJAS Masferrer at the home of Enrique MASFERFER Rojas on 6 May 1966. Please substitute the dissemination numbers where UFG-8225 and UFG 8241 are cited in Field Comment No. 1.

RID: Please index for field:

NAME: HARRIS, Bill

SEX: M

DOB: ?

POB: ?

CIT: Prob USA ?

OCC: Unknown. Emissary of Rolando MASFERRER. Subj's office in Miani re anti-DUVALIER planning.

NAME: JOHNSON, Vernon

SEX: M

DOB: ?

POB: ?

CIT: Prob USA ?

OCC: Arms runner; dealer in military equipment with emissaries of Rolando MASFERPER Rojas re anti-DUVALIER planning. Subj is Negro.

Group 1: Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification.

![photo of a stamp with black ink dated MAY 17 1966 and the number 201-42669]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT
GRADING OF SOURCE: A. Completely reliable. B: Usually reliable. C: Fairly reliable. U: Not usually reliable E. Not reliable. (Applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence. F. Reliability cannot be judged (Applied to untested or insufficiently tested sources).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1. Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true. 3: Possibly true. 4: Doubtful. 5: Probably false. 6: Cannot be judged.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Haiti/Cuba

SUBJECT Further Developments in Plan for Action Against the Haitian Government

REPORT NO. CSDFS-31201605-60

DATE OF REPORT 17 May 1966

NO. PAGES 2

DATE OF INFO. 27 April - 6 May 1966

PLACE & DATE ACQ. United States, Miami (11 May 1966)

REFERENCES UFG-8288

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE: A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information collection. The group has provided useful reports since 1961.

1. On 27 or 28 April 1966, in New York, Rolando Masferrer Rojas, former Cuban senator who has been involved in plans for action against President Francois Duvalier of Haiti, received a letter from the Haitian who is heading the operation against Haiti. The Haitian instructed Masferrer to send a trusted person to the office of Bill Harris, 7150 N.W. 29th Avenue, Miami, Florida, to talk with Vernon Johnson, a Negro. The Haitian described Johnson as a trustworthy person who would be in charge of getting arms. Under no circumstances was Masferrer's emissary to talk with anyone else.

2. Antonio Rojas Masferrer Rolando Masferrer's cousin in Miami, contacted Johnson, who said that he had in the Miami area all the equipment and arms needed for the operation and was only awaiting the orders to release them.

3. Rojas and Enrique Masferrer Rojas, Rolando Masferrer's brother, asked a son of Cesar Camacho Covent, who was Minister of Justice in Cuba under Fulgencio Batista Zaldivar, to investigate Johnson. Camacho's son, who conducts private investigations, reported later that Johnson is an arms runner who also deals in military equipment.

Rojas said he had also been able to learn that although Johnson dressed in a suit and necktie he lived in a small, cheap room in one of the poor, Negro sections of Miami.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-2-
UPG-8288

4. After writing the letter, the Haitian visited Rolando Masferrer in New York, brought to his equipment worth $2,000, and told him to be patient, for the operation against Haiti would be accomplished.

5. On 6 May Antonio Rojas Masferrer received a long-distance telephone call from the Haitian, who was in Canada. According to Rojas, the Haitian had told him that when Duvalier goes to Argentina he will not return to Haiti. Rojas added that the United States Government knows this; that some of the Ton Ton Macoutes (Duvalier's personal police) were already giving up their jobs and others had been killed in the streets. The United States Government therefore fears that the Communists may take over in Haiti.

6. Rojas said that Rolando Masferrer was worried about the lapse of time in initiating the Haitian operation and feared that the plan might never materialize. However, Rojas felt that if the Haitian plan did not work out, the arms, which would have supplied about 150 men, could be used in attacks against Cuba.

Field Comments:

1.  Source gave the Haitian's name as Vicemart (sic). Henri Vixamar, who has been identified earlier as the Haitian in charge of the anti-Duvalier plan, is undoubtedly the person referred to. Vixamar left Kingston for Toronto by air on 12 April. For two related reports, see U2275 and UPG 8241.

2.  The telephone directory for the Greater Miami area lists Central Truck Sales at this address.

3.  Duvalier has announced that he will attend meeting of heads of State scheduled to be held in Buenos Aires in July.

| STATE/REDCINCLANT | DIA/CINCSO # | ARMY/USIA (-) | NAVY/I&NS ()# | AIR  | NSA    | OCH       | F        |        |
| ----------------- | ------------ | ------------- | ------------- | ---- | ------ | --------- | -------- | ------ |
| WHC/FI            | WHC/SI       | WE/5/R        | 1             |      | 1      |           |          |        |
| WHC/RR            | WHC/WAVE     | WE/MADR       | 1             |      | 1      |           |          |        |
| WHC/RE            | WHC/CA       |               | 1             |      | 2      |           |          |        |
| WHC/CICS          |              |               |               |      |        |           |          |        |
| WHC/MO            | WH/PACY      |               | 1             |      | 2      | Liaison   |          |        |
| TOTALS            | IE 2         | CI 4          | FI 3          | CA 1 | DE/H 1 | VEC 9 (1) | VE 1 (1) | VH (1) |



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

FBI doc
6 May '66 (Miami)
Re- Rolando Aradiz Massferrer
Rojas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING INSTRUCTIONS TO: ACTION BRANCH

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach flap and forward to RID. If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

2.  Destroy front sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments regarding preservation.

FROM: RID/AU

PROPER FILE NO UFC-8981

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO          | ROOM NO. | DATE      | OFFICERS INITIALS | COMMENTS                              |
| ----------- | -------- | --------- | ----------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| 1. whlcles  |          | 12 May 66 |                   | copy attached                         |
| 2. waklrale |          |           |                   | For an 315/80656- See                 |
| 3.          |          |           |                   | CF                                    |
| 4.          |          |           |                   | that he had CCIDB-31/eSDB-32/01440-66 |
| 5.          |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 6.          |          |           |                   | Vitamar, of the                       |
| 7.          |          |           |                   | on 12 telephone erin Mi               |
| 8.          |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 9.          |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 10.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 11.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 12.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 13.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 14.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 15.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 16.         |          |           |                   |                                       |
| 17. RID/FI  |          |           |                   |                                       |


ABSTRACT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# REPORT COVER SHEET

JMWAVE
DEPARTIVE OFFICER
Henry J. SLOMAN
BEATS OFFICER
Eleanor D. PIMSLER
Live K Papst
Philip G. ELMARD

SECRET
REPORT NO.
UFG-8241
DATE OF REPORT
4 May 1966
PROJECT
SOURCE CRYPT
AMOT
FIELD DISTRIBUTION

PROCESSING ACTION

COVER SHEET
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
OPS DATA REPORTED SEPARATELY
CS DISSEMINATION

TOCS DISSEMINATION

INTRA-AGENCY

1 - Hqs
1 - DCS
2 - Port-au-Prince
2 - Ottawa
2 - Kingston

EXTRA-AGENCY

State
FBI
I&NS
Customs
Border Patrol
USCG

To OUT Pouch

SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

DYVOUR/JMPALM

SOURCE: AMOT Source Raul ARANGO de la Noval, in EE-5185, 27 April 1966. ARANGO got the information from Enrique MASFERRER Rojas on 26 April. Please substitute the dissemination number where UFG 8225 is cited in the field comments.

RID: No Index

> [Figure: REPORTS MAY X 41966 stamp]

Group 1: Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification

FORM 1467 USE
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

CS COPY

4 may 66
201-42669

(20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# FIFID INFORMATION REPOPT

GRADING OF SOURCE A: Completely reliable B: Usually reliable C: Fairly reliable D: Not usually reliable E: Not reliable.
F: Cannot be judged. (Applied to sources of sound honesty or integrity, regardless of their competence) Tested sources

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources 2: Probable 3: Possibly true 4: Doubtful 5: Probably false 6: Cannot be judged.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL/CONTROLLED DISSEN!

COUNTRY: Haiti/Cuba

SUBJECT: Further Activities of Rolando Masferrer Rojas

DOI: Late April 1966

PROD: United States, Miami (27 April 1966)

SOURCE: A member of a group of Cuban émigrés trained in the techniques of information collection. The group has provided useful reports since 1961.

1. According to Enrique Masferrer Rojas, his brother Rolando Masferrer Rojas, former Cuban senator who has been planning action against President François Duvalier of Haiti, left Miami, Florida, for New York on 25 April 1966 to settle several matters pending there. He planned to return to Miami afterward to wait for the right time to invade Haiti.

2. Enrique Masferrers stated that his brother had found somebody who had agreed to transport arms from the United States to a point where the invasion forces were to meet. The acquisition of two aircraft to be used in the invasion effort is still pending. Previously, Rolando Masferrer had said that he would buy or lease them in Miami and then locate a place outside United States territory where they could land and be loaded with bombs.

3. According to Enrique Masferrer, the Haitian who was in Canada arranging various aspects of the operation, had traveled to the United States in the company of two former-colonels of the Haitian army who allegedly had the support of 80 to 90 Haitian émigrés. The Haitian émigrés were to meet at an appointed site and be picked up by when the time to initiate the plan came about. The former Haitian colonels have stated that if they succeed in establishing a beachhead in Haiti with the arms and men who currently support them, Duvalier will leave the country within 24 hours.

4. Reportedly Rolando Masferrer had asked representatives of the Institutos Armados de la Republica de Cuba (Armed Institutes of the Republic of Cuba) to contribute to the operation. The representatives agreed to discuss the matter.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

> GROUP 1
> Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
-2-

5.  Rolando Masferrer again mentioned that his ultimate objective was an attack
Cuba using Haiti as his base.

Field Comments

1.  Rolando Masferrer has been discussing plans for an
invasion of Haiti for many months. TDCSDB-315/00658-66
reported the difficulties he was encountering. See also,
UPG-0328. C-DE-312/01431-66.

2.  Among earlier claims by Masferrer was one that he had
already purchased the two aircraft. See TDCSDB-315/
00289-66 and UPG-0326. C-DE-312/01431-66.

3. The Haitian referred to is probably Henri Vixamar, described
earlier as a former Haitian and an official of the Republic
of Chad. Vixamar left Kingston for Toronto on 12 April
by air. There was a previous report on a telephone
conversation between Rolando Masferrer, then in Miami,
and "the Haitian in Canada" regarding "Operation Haiti."
UPG-0175.

4. C-DE-312/01431-66.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

1 F.i in Sect 2 on back attach back flap and forward to P.P.OT.Pi

2 Destroy Maint cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If the zo and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no below and forward document to RID AN

FROM:

RID/AN

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO      | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| ------- | ------- | ----------------------- | ------------------ |
| WH/C/ES |         | 10 May 66               |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
| RID/FI  |         |                         |                    |


C.SDB-312/01431-66

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | FILE TITLE | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) |
| ------------- | -------- | ---------- | -------------------------- |
| X             |          | 201-042669 |                            |

| DATE MICROFILMED | INDEX         | DOCUMENT DATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER |
| ---------------- | ------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
|                  | 29 April 1966 | UFG 08225     |                 |

SECRET

![Form 610a image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# REPORT COVER SHEET

JOWAVE

REPORTING OFFICER

Henry J. SLOMAN

REPORTS OFFICER

John C. TARBELL/bcp

APPROVED OFFICER

SECRET

REPORT No.

UTC-9205

DATE OF REPORT

29 April 1966

PROJECT

PROCESSING ACTIONS

COVER SHEET
MARKED FOR INDICES

NO INDEXING REQUIRED
OPS DATA REPORTED SEPARATELY

CS DISSEMINATION

TOCS DISSEMINATION

SOURCE CRYPT

AMOT

FIELD DISTRIBUTION

EXTRA-AGENCY

Miami reps of: State

FBI

I&NS

Customs

Border Patrol

USCG

INTRA-AGENCY

4 - Hqs.

1 - DCS

2 - Ottawa

2 - Kingston

2 - Port au Prince

SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

TYPIC

SOURCE: AMOT report EE-5149, 26 April 1966. Paras. 1 to 3:
Raul ARANGO de la Noval, who received the information from
Enrique Masferrer. Paras. 4 and 5: AMOT-237 from Basilio Jorge
PANEQUE Mulet. Field Comment 2: KNGS-2523.

RID: No Index

> [Figure: A circular stamp with text around the perimeter and "REPORTS MAY X 2 1966" in the center]

Group 1: Excluded from
Automatic Downgrading
and Declassification

![CS COPY stamp]

HQS RI COPY

261-4264

29 April 66

1201


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

GRADING OF SOURCE A. Compet reliable B. usually reliable. C fairly reliable D not usually reliable E Not reliable Applied to sources of doubtful honesty or over, regardless of their competence. F Reports cannot be judged (Applies to untested or as efficency tested sources.

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT 1 Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources 2. Probably true 3. Possibly true 4. Doubtful 5. Probably false 6. Cannot be judged.

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba/Haiti REPORT NO

SUBJECT Activities of Rolando Masferrer DATE OF REPORT 29 April 1966
Rojas 201-042667 NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF Mid-April 1966
INFO

PLACE & United States, Miami
DATE ACQ (26 April 1966)

SOURCE: UFG-8225
A member of a group of Cuban émigrés trained in the techniques of information collection. The group has provided useful reports since 1961.

1. On 21 April 1966 Enrique, Masferrer Rojas said that his brother, Rolando Masferrer Rojas, who was in Miami, had received a telephone call from Canada on an unspecified date from the person who was to be the President of Haiti in "Operation Haiti." The Haitian asked Rolando Masferrer to go to Canada. Rolando Masferrer replied that he was in a difficult position.

The Haitian then asked that Rolando Masferrer send an emissary whom he trusted completely and who was knowledgeable of the necessary of accomplishing the mission in Haiti. An unidentified emissary left for Canada on 18 or 19 April.

2. On 21 April Rolando Masferrer received a telephone call from his emissary in Canada and-the-Haitian. His representative said that the Haitian be had received a check from the Haitian which was sufficient for their needs.

3. Rolando Masferrer bought a boat on an unspecified date from the Junta Revolucionaria Cubana (JURE, Cuban Revolutionary Junta) for $25,000. The boat, which is in Miami, was then used as security for a loan of $5,000 which will be used to buy arms. According to Enrique Masferrer, everything that is needed has been obtained, and the operation will definitely be carried out.

4. Another Cuban émigré in Miami said that Rolando Masferrer has about 400 men and all of the equipment which is needed for a military operation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEA/NO FOREIGN DISSEN
-2-
UFG-8225

5. According to tie énigre, Rolando Masferrer said that *nu hos the sight to fight for his native country*, that he has all the equipment that is needed, including two planes and several boats, to carry out his plans. Rolando Masferrer added that he had been persecuted by authorities of the United States Government. Es said that after Fidel Castro Ruz has been overthrown he, Masferrer, will leave for Cuba immediately, with or without permission from U. S. authorities. He plans to follow the example of Francisco Caamano Deno, who, with a small group, stood firm, and became a recognized power in the Deainican Republic.

Field Comments.

1. IDCSDB-315/00714-66 gives information on the Masforrer's plans to invade Haiti.

2. The Haitian may be Henri Vixamar, who has previously been reported to be involved in the plans to invade Haiti. He left Kingston, Jamaica, on 12 April "for Toronto, Canada,

3. Source Comment. Masferrer's involvement in a plan to Invade Haiti may be a subterfuge for obtaining a military force and equipment which will be prepared for action in the event an internal upheaval occurfus in Cuba.

Field Comment. Masferrer has a tendency to exaggerate, and he is disliked and distrusted by many Cuban émigrés, IDCSDB-315/00658-66 геported on the difficulties he was encountering in trying to complete his plan for an invasion of Haiti.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

FBI doc
18 april 66 (NY)
Re-Polands Ascula Pasfever
Rozás

FBI doc
29 March 66 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcade Marf2:12
Pojas


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SAJECT OF DOCUMENT

OF FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

PERTINENT INFORMATION

MASEENER ROJAS, ROLANDO ANCADIU
231-042669
SEA A UUB 7
100-009-016
DOB -42961
20 MAR 69
TBI
CIT 7
OCC 7
REPORT UN ACTIVITIES OF RULANDO ARCADIO
MASPEMMER ROJAS

R 6604210444

FILE IN 201-42669

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCLIENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

BE FILE No.

P. DOURCE Corpores. Bad

8. Bats PROCESSCO

DOCUMENT DISPOSITIC

FILE26.

PLOTINCOOT LOMAYOR

MASFAKKER ROJAS. HULANDO ARCADIO
201-042609
SEX M DUB 7

201-350227
CIT CUBA
DAB-41616
DCC 7
10 MAR 60
< USA
Fol

P4
FMK CUBAN SEN NURKING CLOSELY NY W/DANIEL
FIGNOLE, INTEKEM PALS HASTI 57 KEGAKUING PLANS
OVERTIMUM HAITIAN PRES FRANCOIS DUVALIER. ANU-
TSUN OTHER ALS THERE WERE BU MEM IN FARM MA
MEX C OWNED BY SUBJ, FAR MOR CUSAN HOUSE REP.
WAS IN MIAMI RECENTILY DISCUSSIN W/KODULFO
MASFEKKEN RUJAS, KULANDU'S BROTHER, WAS FRANS-
FERRING THESE MEN MEX TO HAITI. DUS 28 SEP 65.

6606220696

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-0426469


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

FBI dor
10 Mazl66 (Miami)
Re-Roberto Arcadis Maeferer
Rojiss


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INDE. YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 231-
X REF TO FIE NO 20/21

SECRET
FILE RID RET TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: WH 8 ☑ RID COPY (ADVANCE COPY TUBED CS/DO, TIME 2:58, ΞΥ D)

INFO: CS/DO, VR, FILE, ADOP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP/OPS, GAC 2, FL., R.D R/INT, IM, SOD 4, RI/AN, WH/C 8. D/OCI 2.

SECRET 122
DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR PRIN SDOM SNOR MANA TEGU CITE WAVE 9458
INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM HDC HDS NNM NHT

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. NO PROJECT. SOURCE UOAMBER-6. SUBSOURCES PARA 1 VERA, PARAS 2 AND 4 SANCHEZ, PARA 3 CONSTANZO. SEE ALSO AMEMB

PRIN 421 (252215Z) RID INDEX MASFERRER, VIXAMAR, BELT, SANCHEZ.

FILED 122

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEN HAITI/CUBA

SUBJ: FURTHER DEVELOPMENTS IN PLANS OF ROLANDO MASFERRE? POJAS, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR, AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF HAITI

DOI: 26 FEBRUARY - 1 MARCH 1966

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (1-2 MARCH 1966)

> [Figure] Image displaying 'NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED TD PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY LEO RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT'

MICROFILMED MAR 1 41366
DOC. MICRO. SER.

RELEASING IWO
DATE DISTRIBUTED
TOCS DB. 315/207814-66

ROUTINE
BASED ON
PRIORITY

LIAISON

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy file: 4 MAR 66 201-42669

D 200-9-38


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

INDEX YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO ________________

REF TO FILE NO ________________

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE (REVISED 4-65)

MFG. 1-65

ROUTING

SECRET

1 5

2 6

FILE RID ☐ RET TO BRANCH ☐

3 7

DESTROY ☐ SIG

4 8

FROM:

ACTION: ☑ RID COPY

INFO: VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, C/NC 2. R, R/D . R/INT

IN 67457 PAGE 2

UFG-7998

REF: UFG-7969

SOURCE: FORMER LATIN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WHO MAINTAINS RELATIONS WITH
OFFICIALS OF LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER.
AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST.

RE COMMENT:

RELEASING I WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

TDCS

ROUTINE

BASED ON:

PRIORITY

LIASON:

SECRET

(GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

## Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY

DATE OF INFO.

SUBJECT

TDCS

DESTIL

FIELD REPORT NO. 67457

1. DURING THE WEEK OF 2Ø FEBRUARY 1966 IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR WHO HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN PLOTTING AGAINST PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER OF HAITI STATED THAT THERE WAS A POSSIBILITY THAT DUVALIER WOULD GIVE BASES IN HAITI TO CUBAN EMIGRES IN ORDER TO STOP THEIR PLOTTING AGAINST HIM.

2. ON 25 FEBRUARY EUSEBIO MUJAS BARNIOL, SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE CONFEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES CUBANOS EN EL EXILIO (CTCE, CONFEDERATION OF CUBAN WORKERS IN EXILE) SAID THAT AROUND 2 FEBRUARY MASFERRER HAD MET WITH EUGENE L. MAXIMILIEN, HAITIAN CONCUL GENERAL IN MIAMI. MJJAL SAID THAT WHEN HE HAD QUESTIONED MASFERRER ABOUT

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# CONFIDENTIAL

THE MEETING THE LATTER HAD SAID THAT "OTHERS" HAD MET WITH MAXIMILIEN
AND THAT ALTHOUGH HE (MASFERRER) HAD NOT BEEN PRESENT HE HAD DETAILS
OF THE MEETING.

3. LATE IN FEBRUARY MASFERRER TOLD ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, CUBAN
   EMIGRE WHO HAS BEEN REPORTED AS WORKING WITH MASFERRER IN ANTI-DUVALIER
   PLANNING, THAT HE (MASFERRER) HAD TO RETURN TO NEW YORK TO TRY TO GET
   IN TOUCH WITH HENRI VIXAMAR TO GET MONEY TO CONTINUE THE OPERATION
   AGAINST HAITI. MASFERRER ADDED THAT VIXAMAR HAD LEFT NASSAU FOR
   NEW YORK. (FIELD COMMENT: SEE TDCSDB-315/80658-66, WHICH REPORTED
   MASFERRER'S STATEMENT THAT "THE HAITIAN" WHO WAS DIRECTING THE ANTI-
   DUVALIER ACTIVITY HAD GONE TO NASSAU. VIXAMAR HAS BEEN IDENTIFIED
   EARLIER AS A FORMER HAITIAN AND FUNCTIONARY OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHAD.)

4. ON I MARCH GUILLERMO BELT RAMIREZ, PROMINENT CUBAN EMIGRE IN
   WASHINGTON AND A FORMER CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATES,
   TELEPHONED VIRGILIO SANCHEZ OCEJO IN MIAMI AND TOLD HIM TO GET OUT OF
   THE PLOT AGAINST HAITI AND TO TELL ALL HIS FRIENDS TO DO THE SAME.
   BELT ADDED THAT HE WAS GOING TO TELEPHONE OTHER CUBAN EMIGRES AND GIVE
   THEM SIMILAR ADVICE. (FIELD COMMENTS: SANCHEZ OCEJO IS PRESIDENT ADVISING
   OF THE COMITE PRO-GOBIERNO DE CUBA EN EL EXILIO (CPGCE, COMMITTEE MAY NE
   FOR CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE.) (SOURCE COMMENTS: SANCHEZ OCEJO HAD GET OUT
   ASKED BELT TO APPROACH UNITED STATES OFFICIALS AND INQUIRE REGARDING
   MASFERRER'S CLAIMS THAT THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT HAD APPROVED HAITI.
   HIS PLOT TO INVADE HAITI.)

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

FORM 2003 Obesieten Proteus Mitions
161
of Ferm 2004
PLACE CONTRO
CONFIDENTIAL (When Fined in)
ABOVE TOP BLACK LIVE AND BELOW BLOM BLACK LINE
IN
TDCS
NTG 6-68 (3)
CONFIDENTIAL
IN 67457
PAGE 3
5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS
OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, AND USG (ALSO SENT
PORT-AU-PRINCE, SANTO DOMINGO, MANAGUA, TEGUCIGALPA.)
END OF MESSAGE
CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

53 SECRET

FROM JM WAVE

ACTION: WH 8 RID COPY (ADVANCE COPY TUEED TO CS/DO AT: 2215 25 FEB 66 M)

INFO: CS/DO, D 4, DO 4, DO/H 3, CA/O 4, CI/PS, FI/SPG, RI/AN, WH/C 8, IW VR, FILE, CA 2, CA PEG, CA PROP, CI/OPS.

D/I 2, D/CNE

SECRET 2523472 FEB 26 03492

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR PRIN SOOM SNOR MANA TEGU CITE WAVE 935

INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM HTP NDC HOS HNM HHT

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. NO PROJECT. SOURCE PARA 3 UOAMBER-6 FROM MASFERRER WHO VISITED UOAMEER-6 AT LATTER'S HOME 22 FEB. SOURCE PARAS 5 AND 6 AMOT SOURCE ESIRE-1 WHO ATTENDED MEETING. SOURCE

PARAS 7-9 AMOT SOURCE RAUL APANGO DE LA NOVAL AND ESIRE-1, BOTH OF WHOM ATTENDED. SOURCES REFERRED TO IN PARA I UOAMBER-4, UOAMBER-6, AND AMOTS. RE PARA 5 B, SEE WAVE 8587. (IN 3836I) INFORMATION FROM UOAMBER-6 AND AMOTS CONFIRMS SECEN NOT INVOLVED. RID INDEX VILABOA, VIXAMAR, ROJAS, SIERRA, HERNANDEZ, PENA, ARIAS, CONSTANZO, LEON.

FILED 2523472

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

MICROFILMED

MAR 1 0

DOC. MICRO. SER.

TOCS 36-315/0065866

ROUTINE PRIORITY

BASED ON

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

FILE RED ☐ RET TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG

ROUTING

1

5

2

6

3

7

4

8

HAITI/CUBA

SUBJ: DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTERED BY ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR, IN COMPLETING PLANS FOR PROPOSED INVASION OF HAITI.

DOI: 16-23 FEBRUARY 1966

PADA: UNITED STATES, MAIMI (22-23 FEBRUARY 1966)

UFG 7979

SOURCE: (SEE PARAS. 2 AND 4, BELOW)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# CONFIDENTIAL

CONFIDENTIAL
*(When filled in)*

**CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY**
**Intelligence Information Cable**

COUNTRY

TDCS.

DATE OF INFO.

DISTR.

SUBJECT

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.

REF N 63139

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.:

1. (FIELD COMMENT: INFORMATION DATED 20-23 FEBRUARY 1966 FROM THREE SOURCES WHOSE REPORTING IN THE PAST HAS BEEN RELIABLE INDICATES THAT *ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS*, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR WHO HAS BEEN REPORTED PLANNING AN INVASION OF HAITI IN FEBRUARY USING HAITIAN AND CUBAN EMIGRES, IS HAVING DIFFICULTY RECRUITING MEN TO PARTICIPATE. ACCORDING TO EARLIER INFORMATION, MASFERRER IS DISLIKED AND DISTRUSTED BY MANY CUBAN EMIGRES IN MIAMI.)

2. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH 3. BELOW: FORMER LATIN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WHO MAINTAINS RELATIONS WITH OFFICIALS OF LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. SOURCE IS A TRAINED REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs., 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to as unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

STATE/24R DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OG ONE OCR OZ OO

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

CONFIDENTIAL

BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST.

TDCS

IN 63139

PAGE 2

3. ON 22 FEBRUARY IN MAIMI, FLORIDA, ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS

SAID THAT HE WAS HAVING DIFFICULTY GETTING HAITIANS TO PARTICIPATE

IN HIS PLOT TO INVADE HAITI. HE SAID THAT THE ONLY HAITIAN WORKING
WITH HIM IS HENRI VIXAMAR. (FIELD COMMENT: VIXAMAR HAS BEEN

DESCRIBED EARLIER AS A FORMER HAITIAN AND A FUNCTIONARY OF THE
REPUBLIC OF CHAD). MASFERRER ADDED THAT HE WAS STILL ATTEMPTING TO
FIND HAITIAN EMIGRES WHO WOULD BE WILLING TO TAKE PART.

4. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 5-9, BELOW: A MEMBER OF A GROUP
   OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION.
   THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

5. ON 16 FEBRUARY 1966 IN MIAMI MASFERRER MET WITH THE
   FOLLOWING "STAFF OFFICERS" OF THE PROPOSED INVASION EFFORT:

A. GENERAL STAFF: ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER, LUIS SIERRA
LOPEZ, AND JUAN HERNANDEZ. HERNANDEZ, WHO RESIDES AT 569 SW TENTH
STREET, APARTMENT B, MIAMI, HAS BEEN APPOINTED RECRUITMENT CHIEF.

B. CHIEF OF OPERATIONS: VLADIMIR SECEN, WHO WAS NOT
PRESENT AT THE MEETING. (FIELD COMMENT: SOURCE REPORTED LATE
THAT MASFERRER HAD APPOINTED VILABOA TO REPLACE SECEN AS CHIEF
OF OPERATIONS. ACCORDING TO ANOTHER SOURCE WHO REPORTING HAS BEEN
RELIABLE IN THE PAST, SECEN HAS TOLD FRIENDS AND CONTACTS IN THE
HAITIAN AND CUBAN EMIGRE COMMUNITIES IN MIAMI THAT HE IS NOT
INVOLVED IN MASFERRER'S PLOTTING AND THAT HE WILL NOT SUPPORT IT
IN ANY WAY.)

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# CONFIDENTIAL
IS.A BATTALION COMMANDER

F
NAPOLEON VILASDA LLERENA.

D. COMPANY COMMANDERS: OFONIEL PENA ENTENZA, WHO RESIDES
AT 1516 SW THIRD STREET, MIAMI; ERIC ARIAS ARIAS; AND ATON CONSTANZO
PALAU.

6. AT THE MEETING ON 16 FEBRUARY ANTONIO ROJAS SAID THAT
   WEAPONS AS FOLLOWS HAD BEEN ACQUIRED FOR THE INVASION ATTEMPT AND
   THAT THEY WERE IN FIRST-CLASS CONDITION:

TWENTY OR MORE 30-CALIBER MACHINE GUNS

TEN 50-CALIBER MACHINE GUNS

FOUR 81-MM MORTARS

EIGHT 60-MM MORTARS

FIVE BAZOOKAS

AN UNSPECIFIED NUMBER OF AR-15, M-1, AN) 14-14 RIFLES

ONE THOUSAND HAND GRANADES

HAND GUNS AND SUFFICIENT AMAUNITION

7. ON 21 FEBRUARY AT ANOTHER MEETING OF ESSENTIALLY THE SAME
   GROUP, MASFERRER TOLD THOSE PRESENT THAT HE WAS DISGUSTED SINCE HE
   HAD EXPECTED TO HAVE DEFINITE NEWS THAT DAY. INSTEAD, HE HAD
   RECEIVED A MESSAGE FROM THE HAITIAN WHO WAS DIRECTING THE AFFAIR
   ORDERING A CHANGE OF PLANS. MASFERRER SAID THAT THE HAITIAN (инои
   HE DID NOT IDENTIFY) HAD (A) GONE TO MASSAU; (B) SAID THAT THE
   OPERATION COULD BE CARRIED OUT WITH 125 MEN INSTEAD OF 300; AND
   (C) ORDERED ALL WEAPONS IN MIAMI AND NEW YORK TRANSFEERED TO THE
   BAHAMAS. (FIELD COMMENT: MASFERRER UNDOUBTEDLY WAS REFERRING TO

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

CONFIDENTIAL

HENRI VIXAMAR.)

8. MASFERRER SAID THAT HE HAD SENT A LETTER TO THE HAITIAN IN NASSAU CLARIFYING SOME MATTERS AND REMINDING HIM OF THEIR PREVIOUS AGREEMENT. IF BY 22 FEBRUARY MASFERRER HAD NOT RECEIVED AN ANSWER TO HIS LETTER HE WOULD SEND LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ TO NASSAU TO MEET WITH THE HAITIAN AND "LAY THE CARDS ON THE TABLE". MASFERRER ADDED THAT IN THE MEANTIME ATTEMPTS TO RECRUIT 300 TO 400 MEN MUST BE CONTINUED, AND IN CASE THE HAITIAN EFFORT FAILED THEN THESE MEN COULD BE USED "IN SOME OTHER WAY". MASFERRER SAID THAT HE HOPED TO HAVE DEFINITE NEWS TO ANNOUNCE AT ANOTHER MEETING TO BE HELD ON THE EVENING OF 23 FEBRUARY. (FIELD COMMENTS, A CHECK WITH
   U.S. GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES IN MIAMI ON 25 FEBRUARY FAILED TO SHOW ANY RECORD OF RECENT TRAVEL TO NASSAU BY SIERRA).

![Cuba to Florida USA]

9. AT THE MEETING ON 21 FEBRUARY MASFERRER ASKED HOMERO LEON FERNANDEZ WHETHER THE LATTER WAS READY TO FURNISH 100 MEN FOR THE INVASION OF HAITI, AS HE HAD PROMISED EARLIER. LEON ANSWERED THAT HE WAS. (FIELD COMMENT: LEON, A CUBAN EMIGRE, IS A LEADER OF THE FUERZAS ARMADAS CONSTITUCIONALES DE CUBA EN EL EXILIO (FACCE,
   CONSTITUTIONAL ARMED FORCES OF CUBA IN EXILE). FOR EARLIER INFORMATION ON HIS INVOLVEMENT WITH MASFERRER, SEE (CSDB-312/2276-65.)

10. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, AND USCG (ALSO SENT PORT-AU-PRINCE, SANTO DOMINGO, MANAGUA, TEGUCIGALPA).

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

FBI doc
19 Feb 66 (Miami)
Re-Rolands Arcadis Masferrer
Rojas

FBI doc
15 Feb 66 (Miami)
Re-Rolands Arcadis Masferrer
Bureau # 2-154

FBI doc
9 Feb 66 (NY)
Re-Rolando Arcadis Masferrer
Rojas

FBI doc
31 Jan 66 (Wach)
Re-Rolando Arcadis Masferrer
Rojas Bureau #LA-2.16.22

FBI doc
31 Jan 66 (NY)
Re. Haitian Revolutionary Activities


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

SUBJECT: Revolutionary Planning of Haitian/Cuban Emigre Group

FROM: Sally Jamison
WH/7/Ht
382630

EXTENSION NO: CSCI-316/00172-66

DATE: 17 January 1966

| TO: Officer designation, room number, and building | DATE       | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment) |
| -------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. WH/FI (3B4404)                                  | 12/1       |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 2. C/WH/7                                          | 2 JAR 1966 |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 3. CI/LIA (2C35)                                   | 4 JAT:956  |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 4. RID/AN                                          |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 5. RID/MIS                                         |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 6.                                                 |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 7.                                                 |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 8.                                                 |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 9.                                                 |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 10.                                                |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 11.                                                |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 12.                                                |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 13.                                                |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 14.                                                |            |                    |                                                                                                        |
| 15.                                                |            |                    |                                                                                                        |

17 JAN 1966

![Abstract]

201-042669

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

17 JAN 1966

TO : Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM : Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Revolutionary Planning of Haitian/Cuban
Emigre Group

1.  Reference is made to this Agency's dissemination TDCSDB-315/00071-66, dated 7 January 1966.

2.  In addition to the information contained in the referenced report, we believe it will be of interest to your Bureau to note that Rolando MASFERRER Rojes said that he (Masferrer) is keeping in constant touch with an agent of the federal Bureau of Investigation in New York. As you know, Masferrer, a former Cuban senator, is a leader in a Haitian/Cuban emigre group that is plotting the overthrow of Haitian President Francois Duvalier.

CSCI-316/00172-66

DOP/KH/7/HE/SJJamison:rae (11 January 1966)

Distributions:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - RI (2009-981261-042669 BASIC: WAVE-8281 (IX 28264)
1 - CI/LIA PROJECT: XP
1 - CI/RGA
2 - WH/7/Ht LIAISON :
1 - WH/FI

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

204-042669

![Budget Bureau Identification Number stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# 201-042669

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: WH 8 **RID COPY** (COPY TUBED 'TO CS/DO AT 1726 EY P)

INFO: CS/DO, VR, PILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, O/OPS, OIC 2, R., R/D , A/INT, IW, SOD 4, CA/O 4, CI, RI/AN, H/C 8. D/OCI 2, D/ONE.

SECRET 071833 COPIES

7 JAN £6 213EZ IN 29176

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR PRIN CITE WAVE 8385 (INCHORST ACTINE) 48
H2P HTP

INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO. NO PROJECT. UCAMBER-6 FROM ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER. LAST SENTEICE PARA ONE FROM UFG-7584, NOT DISSEVED.

INDEX ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER, ROLANDO LASFERRER ROJAS, RODOLFO MASFERRER ROJAS. FILED 0718332 UFG-7854

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

HAITI

SUBJ: 1. SHIPMENT FROM NEW YORK TO MIAMI OF ARVS FOR USE AGAINST THE GOVERMENT OF HAITI

2. ATTEMPT EY HAITIAR/CUGAN EMIGRE GROUP LEADER TO ILVE THE INSURRECTICKAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTURIMY RECOVERY

> [Figure: A stamp with texts 'NO DISSEMINAT OF THE ATTACHED', 'TO PORTIC', 'MADE OUT', 'AGENCY PENDING', 'RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT'.]

MICROFILMED

JAN 2 7 1966

DOC., MICRO. BER.

TDCS:R-315/00104-66

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

ROUTINE BASED ON: PRIORITY

LIAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

7 JAN 66

201-042669


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

XRID COPY-

IN 29176 PAGE 2

(4122) CARRY OUT SABOTAGE ACTIVITY AGAINST HAITI

DOI: 4 JANUARY 1956

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (6 JANUARY 1966)

UFG-7854

SOURCE: FORMER LATIN AMERICAN DIPLOMAT WHO MAINTAINS RELATIONS WITH OFFICIALS OF LATIN AMERICAN COUNTRIES. SOURCE IS A TALENTED REPORTER AND HIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN RELIABLE IN THE PAST.


RELEASING IWO

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

TDCS

ROUTINE
BASED ON

PRIORITY

LIAISON

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY                                                                       TDCS
DATE OF                                                                        252
INFO

SUBJECT

PLACE &
DATE ACQ                                                              REF
SOURCE                                                             25:76
AND                                                                     FIELD REPORT NO.
APPRAISAL

1. (FIELD COMMENT: THE ACTIVITIES OF ROLANDO MASFERRER
   201-042669                                           U.S.A.
   ROJAS, FORMER CUBAN SENATOR, AS A LEADER OF A HAITIAN/CUBAN
   EMIGRE GROUP PLANNING ACTION AGAINST PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER
   OF HAITI HAVE BEEN REPORTED ON EARLIER. ANTONIO ROJAS MASFERRER,
   HIS COUSIN, HAS BEEN REPORTED, BY THE SOURCE OF THE INFORMATION
   BELOW, TO BE THE COORDINATOR IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, FOR THE EMIGRE
   ACTION AGAINST HAITI.)

2. ON 4 JANUARY 1966, IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, ANTONIO ROJAS
   MASFERRER SAID THAT ROLANDO MASFERRER ROJAS HAD RECENTLY SENT TO
   MIAMI FROM NEW YORK A NUMBER OF RIFLES, 32-CALIBER MACHINE GUNS,
   This material corsaire information alleccias de National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espicespe
   Lave. The is. USC. Scca. 793 and 774, e trataminion or revelacion of which in any med panos
   prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR XS SECDEF NSA NIC AD USIA OCI ONE OCI OII CO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

CONFIDENTIAL

AND PISTOLS BECA JOELLE MÁS AFRAID THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION (F31) IN NEW YORK WOULD FIND AND CONFISCATE THEM

3. ANTONIO ROJAS ALSO SAID THAT ROLANDO MASFERRER HAD
   ORIGINALLLY PLANNED TO HAVE HIM (ANTONIC ROJAS) RECEIVE AND TAKE
   CARE OF THE WEAPONS IN MIAMI, BUT THAT SINCE MASFERRER AOW
   BELIEVES THE FBI IS WATCHING ROJAS HE HAS PUT RODOLFO MASFERRER
   ROJAS, H.S BROTHER, IN CHARGE OF THE THE WEAPONS ROLANDO MASFERRER
   HAD CAUTICED HISTEROTHER TO STAY AWAY FROM THE PLACES W WEAPONS ARE HIDDEN,

4. ACCORDING TO ROJAS, ROLANDO MASFERRER IS IN TOUCH WITH
   THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA
   (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY), A
   CUBAN EMIGRE GROUP LED BY ORLANDO 50SCH AVILA, TO TRY TO
   INFLUENCE THE MIRR TO CARRY OUT SABOTAGE ACTIVITY AGAINST HAITI.
   MASFERRER HOPES THIS ACTIVITY WILL SPARK A REVOLUTION IN HAITI.

5. ANTONIO ROJAS SAID THAT ROLANDO MASFERRER HAD TOLD ALL
   THOSE CONCERNED WITH THE PLOT AGAINST DUVALIER TO PASS THE WORD,
   SO THAT IT WOULD REACH UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES, THAT NOTHING
   IS BEING DONE AGAINST DUVALIER AND THAT THE EXILES ARE DISCOURAGED.
   VASFERRER BELIEVES THIS WILL CAUSE UNITED STATES AUTHORITIES
   TO RELAX THEIR SURVEILLANCE, PERMITTING THE EXILES TO MOVE MORE FREELY.

6. FIELD DISSEY: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMAWESTFOR, MIAMI
   REPS OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, I&NS, AND USCG
   (ALSO SENT PORT-AU-PRINCE).

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)