14-00000
104-10107-10135
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OGC 69-0181

31 January 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Herbert Itkin

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1.  A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Messrs. Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discuss the ramifications of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January. It was concluded that additional information was required on (Thomas L. Roberts)$^{03}$ and (Robert Delson)$^{03}$. I contacted the Director of Security and requested the security files on these two individuals and was advised that we could not have the security files but that Mr. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and discuss their contents openly.

2. On 29$^{03}$ January, Mr. Greene brought the security files on (Roberts) and (Delson) and was most cooperative in explaining their contents. Attached is a chronological rundown on the pertinent information on (Thomas L. Roberts) affiliation with the FBI, CIA and Itkin.

3. On 30 January$^{03}$ a meeting was held$^{02}$ with Messrs. Houston, Warner, Rocca, and (Eugene Milligan), CCS/(LP)GLOBE, to discuss the operational use of Mr. (Roberts). Mr.$^{03}$(Roberts) has been a Staff Agent of CIA since 28 August 1961. From March 1964 to November 1964 he spent time in (West Africa) writing a monograph on (West African legal) problems.$^{10}$ It should be noted that this task was performed under a grant from a foundation which was blown in the MHDOWEL exposures. In November 1964 (Roberts)$^{03}$ was assigned for Cover to the (Radio Corporation of America$^{24}$ legal) staff where he remained until March 1965 and then went to (Dakar).
   (2-10

(4)/PV


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4. The facts in the attached chronology are subject to question since they are the result of (Roberts) own explanation of his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from independent sources. The most critical aspect would appear to be the knowledge or suspicion that Itkin may have known of (Roberts) affiliation with CIA. This knowledge is borne out by the strange way in which Itkin repeatedly brings (Roberts)' name into the story which Itkin develops about his CIA affiliations. One of the questions to be answered by (LP)GLOBE personnel is whether or not (Roberts) reported his activities with Itkin in Geneva, Switzerland, in March 1966. There appears to be no record of (Roberts) having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or what his financial contribution was to the law firm of Itkin, Roberts& and Greenbaum.)

5. Mr. Rocca was advised by Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI that the New York District Attorney may be considering prosecution against Roberts for having absconded with funds received from negligence cases. We do not have sufficient information to evaluate the likelihood of criminal prosecution. It may be necessary to discuss this problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office.

6. With regard to (Robert Delson) there appear to have been two operational considerations, one having been a request to use him with Project DTPILLAR from November 1953 to February 1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations Division for his use on Project WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO Division advised Security that (Delson) was not going to be used on WUBRINY. Mr. Rocca commented that there are some rather ominous allegations against members of the firm of (Delson, Levin& and Gordon,) indicating that one member of the firm was a card-carrying member of the Communist Party. At the present time Mr. Rocca is investigating the DTPILLAR use of Mr. (Delson)

![signature]
JOHN K. GREANEY
Assistant General Counsel

Attachment:
cc: C/CI/R&A

12/지


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

7 March 1966 (Roberts) received letter from Itkin but his secretary advised that (Roberts) was on vacation in Austria. Itkin contacted (Roberts) in (Austria) and set up meeting in (Geneva, Switzerland.)

15 March 1966 Meeting at (Hotel Beau Rivage) in (Geneva)
Present were Itkin and (wife) (Jim Marcus),
(Littman) and (wife) Meeting lasted three days. No projects get off the ground.

Nov 1966 (Roberts) in New York City, met at (Marcus's) apartment with Itkin and (Marcus's) father. Then met Itkin again at a dinner given by (Mario Brod.)

Nov 1967 (Roberts) again in New York and contacted Itkin. Had lunch with Itkin and (Brod.) Last time (Roberts) saw or heard of Itkin until he read in the press about the (Marcus) scandal.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

( THOMAS L. ROBERTS )

Nov 1949 (Roberts) volunteered his services to (Boston FBI) not accepted.

Jan 1950 (Roberts) left United States to study in (Paris)

Nov 1950 From Nov. 1950 until Nov. 1955 reported on security matters to the (Boston FBI) Office, Labor Youth League.

Aug 1955 Itkin (hired Roberts) to work for (Delson, Levin & Gordon.) (Roberts) says he was hired to handle maritime matters in litigation.)

Nov 1955 (Roberts) moved to New York City.

June 1956 Resumed services of reporting to (FBI) Was a paid informant of (New York FBI) office reporting on the National Lawyers Guild.

Fall 1956 (Roberts) and others submitted profit-sharing plan to (Delson, Levin & Gordon) not accepted.

Apr 1957 (Roberts) resigned from (Delson, Levin & Gordon) to form a new(firm, Roberts, Greenbaum & Itkin.) (No mention of financial arrangement of setting up new firm.)

6 Apr 1961 (Roberts) came to Washington and talked with Robert Amory about employment with CIA since Amory had been a former professor of Roberts.) (Roberts) was sent to overt CIA personnel recruiter and filled out an application for employment with CIA.

1 June 1961 (Roberts) took a leave of absence from the (firm of Roberts, Greenbaum & Itkin) which was to last from 1 June 1961 through 31 May (1963) (Roberts)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

was to receive $100) per week from the firm while on the leave of absence. (Roberts) did receive the following payments: 09 (Sept) 1961 $200) 4 Dec 1961 - $100) 09 (10 Jan) 1962 ($100) (1 June) 1962 - $100;) 9 (18 June) 1962 $500) NOTE: (Roberts) received only $1,000) when he should have received ($10,400.)

12 July 1961 (FBI)advised that (Roberts) was still reporting to them in New York.

25 July 1961 (Roberts) was given CIA polygraph interview.

Aug 1961 (Roberts) approved by Office of Security for CIA employment as a Staff Agent.

Sept 1961 (FBI) advised they had broken off all contact with (Roberts.)

24 May 1963 (Roberts) wrote letter to (firm) withdrawing his membership effective (31 May) 1963.

May 1965 (Roberts) received a check from Itkin for $2,500 but with the stipulation that (Roberts) send $1,250 to England in order to get the money out of reach of Itkin's first wife.

26 May 1965 (Roberts) arrived in (Dakar.)

16 June 1965 (Roberts) sent $500 to Itkin, in England after asking Itkin about a desk and chair to be sent to (Roberts, in (Dakar)

10 Nov 1965 (Robert) forwarded money to Aida Itkin in England.

Jan 1966 Itkin advised (Roberts) about the formation of (Conestoga, Ltd.)

Feb 1966 Itkin wrote to (Roberts) about Senator Lodge.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)