14-00000
104-10185-10009
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3 July 1962

TO: NKH

FN: AWS

RE: ZRRIFLE

1. Per our discussion of 2 July 1962, I expect that we shall proceed to transfer QJWIN to Baden-Baden per the proposal In OLLA-1463 dated 2 February 1962. LUXE/0489 dated 19 June 1962 stated that COS would have the full details of the capital outlay required by 23 June; however, the information has not been received as of 3 July. The last cable to the Station, DIR 18391 told COS to contact you directly on his arrival on 16 July.

2. With regard to candidates spotted by QJWIN, the two whom he spotted in Italy a year and a quarter ago can probably be used if needed, if we can accept the assessments of them by the Trieste Base contract agent, Magonetti. Magonetti's assessment is contained in OIRA, 27542 dated 10 May 1961. The names of the two French candidates are contained in OLLA 1426 dated 15 December 1961. No action has been taken on these names regarding tracing or anything else. My handwritten notes attached to that dispatch contain fuller descriptions of the two people than appear in the dispatch.

3. The other spotting effort that can be made is through [Hank Manfredi](TN) in Rome. Hank was well briefed on the qualifications desired and the security precautions to be observed in the spotting activity. COS Rome has a copy of the qualifications and restrictions in his safe: however, if Manfredi is told to proceed with his contact in Florence, I suggest that he be re-brieſed in detail.

4. Frankly, all the rest of the paper in the file is crud except for the pay receiption' which are assembled in one envelope. I have already given the ZRRIFLE authorization paper signed by Helms and Skip has been given the QJWIN contract, including the extension to 1 March 1963.

5. The details which have yet to be worked out are

a. The precise method of contact with QJWIN

b. The system of drawing funds for payments to him

c. An emergency contact for him (this should probably be COS LUXE).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

6. Despite COS LUXE's viewpoint, I happen to know that QJHIN can do more spotting in Corsican circles whenever we want him to.

AMS.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)