# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATION STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME:

201-749651
Vol. TI

INCLUSIVE DATES:

31 Dec 70-13 Apr 78

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

LA/DDO

ROOM: 3036

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 2 JULY 78     |               | CHUCK BERK               | C.d Berk                        |
| 27 JULY 78    |               | CHUCK BERK               | Charles Beck                    |
| 14 AUG 1978   |               | CORNWELL                 | Cornell                         |
| 6 NOV 78      |               | BETSY WOLF               | Betzy half                      |

MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

Volume TI; Jan. 71--


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPERATIONAL MATERIAL dated 2 January 1971 - 10 April 1972


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

FBI, 6 April 1978

I&NS, 19 April 1971


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: LA-8 INFO: FILE. VR. DDO-4, C/PCS, CI-4, DDO/DO, EA-8,
EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS-2, LSN/IO, ODPD-D, PCS/LSN. (34(P)

78 0552087 PAGE 001
TOT: 130012Z APR. 78 DIRECTOR 204604.

## SECRET

STAFF 130010Z DIRECTOR 204604

TO: IMMEDIATE LA/MIAMI INFO PANAMA CITY.

ANINTEL REAM

REF: LA/MIAMI 28157 0527676

1. IN CONVERSATION WITH NVCANOPY THEY HAVE ADVISED THAT THEY ARE INTERESTED IN A PRELIMINARY INTERVIEW WITH SLANK-1 (S-1) AND DEPENDING ON ITS OUTCOME WILL MAKE A DETERMINATION IF THEY DESIRE 3-1'S CONTINUED CONTACT WITH SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA (SA). PACHANKIS SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR TO S-1. THAT RTACTION OBVIOUSLY HAS NO OBJECTION TO HIS COOPERATION WITH NVCANOPY. PACHANKIS ALSO. SHOULD MAKE IT CLEAR TO S-J THAT RTACTION HAS 'NO INTEREST IN HIS (S-1'S) CONTINUED RELATIONSHIP WITH SA..

2. A REVIEN OF THE FILES OF THOSE INDIVIDUALS WITH WHOM PACHANXIS CURRENTLY IN ACTIVE CONTACT INDICATES THAT NVCANOPY APPROVAL WAS SOUGHT AND GRANTED IN EACH CASE, WITH THE EXCEPTION OF DEFECTORS SUCH AS SLANK-1 WHO HAD BEEN HANDLED AS A DEFECTOR ALTHOUGH ACCORDING TO THE FILE HE NEVER OFFICIALLY GRANTED THIS STATUS UNDER PL 110. HQS DOES NOT COORDINATE EACH INDIVIDUAL MEETING NOR IDENTIFY OFFICER HANDLING CASE TO NVCANOPY.

3. FILE: 201-2992431 201-749651. E2, IMPDET.>

LA COMMENT: REF QUERIED HQS REGARDING FBI OR CIA INTEREST IN CS-1 PLAYING ROLE OF CONFIDANT TO ALDEREGUIA,

ORIG: LA/CO (SMITH/SPEED X1819/1325); COORD: AC/LA/CO/EA ),
(HARRINGTON), AC/LA/PHNCR (PORN), PCS/LSN (
C/LA/CARI (BURNETT), C/LA/CAR (GREIG): AUTH: DC/LA/CO (LATRASH).

REL: C/LAD (WARREN); CL BY: 012034.<

END OF MESSAGE!

SECRET

![Document stamp 749651]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

50/22/ DISSEM PER SO 132

SECRET

CONF: C/LA-B
ODPD-D. (15/P)
INFO: FILE, RF, C/CI-2, C/IP/DMS, C/LSN/ID, C/PCS,

78 0530447

PAGE 001
TOT: 080750Z APR 78
CIA 203417

SECRET
080750Z CIA 202417
TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

ATTENTION: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
SECRET/WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS
INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM
CIR-316/ 01514-78
SUBJECT: OTOMCAT; ESP-CUBA-PANAMA; RA-CUBA-PANAMA
REFS: A. FBI TELETYPE DATED 052028Z APRIL 1978, CAPTIONED AS ABOVE.
B. CIR-316/00260-75, DATED 18 FEBRUARY 1975, CAPTIONED "SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA, ALSO KNOWN AS "EL GALLEGO" INTERNAL SECRUITY-CUBA.

1. WITH REGARD TO CLARIFICATION OF SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA'S ASSOCIATION WITH U.S. GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND PARTICULARLY WITH CIA, REFERENCE B ADVISED THAT HE WAS OF INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY IN 1960 WHEN WE WERE INDIRECTLY INVOLVED IN ASSISTING IN HIS EXFILTRATION FROM CUBA. HOWEVER, HE TOOK ASYLUM IN THE URUGUAYAN EMBASSY IN HAVANA ON 3 JULY 1960 AND DEPARTED THE SAME DAY FOR CURACAO. AFTER HIS ARRIVAL IN MIAMI IN FEBRUARY 1961, THIS AGENCY WAS BRIEFLY IN CONTACT WITH HIM BUT OUR INTEREST WAS DROPPED PARTLY BECAUSE HIS UNCLE, ONE OF THE LEADING FOUNDERS OF THE CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY, WAS THEN CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO YUGOSLAVIA AND ALDEREGUIA'S TRUE LOYALTIES WERE UNKNOWN. THIS AGENCY HAS HAD NO INTEREST IN OR CONTACT WITH ALDEREGUIA SINCE THAT TIME.

2. VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAMERA DPOB 6 FEBRUARY 1937, HAVANA, CUBA WAS A FORMER DGI STAFF OFFICER WHO DEFECTED ON 21 APRIL 1964 IN HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA. HE WAS DEBRIEFED AND HANDLED THROUGH NORMAL DEFECTOR CHANNELS AND WAS THE SOURCE OF NUMEROUS CSCI'S CONCERNING THE OGI IN 1964 AND 65. HE WAS USED OPERATIONALLY IN RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTS AGAINST DGI OFFICERS DURING 1964-1967. HE WAS TERMINATED IN JULY 1967, AND WAS CONSIDERED, BUT NEVER USED, FOR ANOTHER RECRUITMENT ATTEMPT IN 1971. SINCE 1971 RODRIGUEZ HAS NOT BEEN INVOLVED IN ANY CIA OPERATION IN MIAMI OR ELSEWHERE. JOSEPH NORRIS IS THE ALIAS OF A CIA REPRESENTATIVE WHO PERIODICALLY DEBRIEFS RODRIGUEZ ON PERSONALITIES AND METHODS OF THE DGI. THERE IS NO OTHER CIA INVOLVEMENT WITH RODRIGUEZ.

3. THIS AGENCY WILL QUERY ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN MIAMI TO DETERMINE IF HE HAS ANY ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THIS MATTER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

NON-AGENCY

PAGE 002
TOT: 080750Z APR 78. CIA 202417

78 0530497 APR 19 8 47 AM 78

4. CLASSIFIED BY 012034. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION
   SCHEDULE OF E.D. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5 B(2). IMPOSSIBLE TO
   DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.>
   ORIG LA/CO/CI SPEED X1325: COORD LA/CARI BURRET:
   L1/PHNC/P PORN: ADC/LA/CD KEENAN AUTH C/LAD
   WARREN: REL AC/PCS/LSN KUNH CL BY 012034.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

55/25/
ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22142
ACTION: LA-8 (837): INFO: FILE, VR. DDD-4, C/PCS, CI-4, EPS/EG-2,
IP/DYS LSN/ID. ODPD-D, SIA, SIA/IC. (25/4)

76 0527670
PAGE 001
TOR: 072209Z APR 78
IN 0527670
LMIM 28158

SECRET 072142Z APR 78 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 28158
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY.
NIACT DIRECTOR
NNINTEL REAM
REF: LA/MIAMI 28157 0527676
IDEN A: WILLIAM WALTON
FBI SPECIAL: AGENT
IDEN B: JACK COGSNELL, A WEST PALM BEACH
RESIDENT WHO SA SAYS WAS A RETIRED U.S. NAVAL
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER. E2, IMPDET.

> [Figure: A hand-drawn coordinate plane with several points plotted. The axes are labeled, but the specific values are illegible.]

END OF MESSAGE

![Record Copy stamp]

7 Apr 78
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

55/89/
ADV NOTIFIED AND ISSUED LA 22162

ACTION: LA-8 (836) INFO: FILE, VR, DDD0-6, C/PES, C/SIA, C/SIA/IC,
CI-4, EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS, LSN/ID, ODPD-D, (25/日)

78 0527676
PAGE 001
IN 0527676
TOR: 072206Z APR 78
LMIM 28157

SECRET 072142Z APR 78 STAFF

CITE LA/MIAMI 28157

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE PANAMA CITY.

NIACT DIRECTOR

ANINTEL REAM

REF: DIRECTOR 201936

1. DURING THE YEARS THAT PACHANKIS HAS BEEN IN CONTACT WITH SLANK-1 (S-1), FORMERLY AMMUG-1, FROM 1965 TO 1978, PACHANKIS HAS HAD NO KNOWLEDGE THAT S-1 WAS EVER IN CONTACT WITH NVCANOPY. SINCE 1969 IT HAS BEEN PACHANKIS' UNDERSTANDING THAT NVCANOPY HAS BEEN INFORMED EVERY TIME PACHANKIS HAS MADE AN OPERATIONAL CALL ON A U.S. PERSON IN THE MIAMI AREA. PACHANKIS HAS NEVER BEEN EXPOSED/INTRODUCED TO NVCANOPY IN MIAMI. PACHANKIS HAS BEEN INTRODUCED TO NVCANOPY REPS IN NEW YORK CITY WHILE ON TDY TO FR/NEW YORK (CIRCA 1974). PACHANKIS HAS ALSO MET AN NVCANOPY AGENT IN NEWARK, NEWJERSEY UNDER THE ALIAS OF JOE NORRIS.

2. PACHANKIS HAS BEEN HANDLING S-1 SINCE EARLY 1970. SEVERAL TIMES OPERATIONS ALMOST CAME OFF BUT HQS DECIDED AT THE LAST MINUTE TO PRESERVE S-1'S SECURITY. IN THE PAST FEW YEARS THERE HAS NOT BEEN MUCH CONTACT WITH S-1 EXCEPT FOR A CHRISTMAS CALL OR A ROUTINE COG REQUIREMENT.

3. SLANK-1 CALLED PACHANKIS ON 6 APRIL AND REQUESTED MEETING TO REPORT FOLL:

A. SALVADOR ALDEREGUIA (SA) HAS BEEN S-1 FRIEND SINCE 1955 IN CUBA. THEY CONSPIRED AGAINST THE BATISTA REGIME WHILE IN THE RANKS OF THE 26TH OF JULY MOVEMENT.

B. S-1 HAD NOT SEEN SA IN ALMOST FOUR YEARS WHEN THEY COINCIDENTALLY MET ON A MIAMI STREET IN 1965 (LESS THAN YEAR AFTER S-1'S DEFECTION FROM DGI). FROM 1965 UNTIL FEB/MARCH 1978, THEY HAD INFREQUENT THOUGH CORDIAL ENCOUNTERS IN MIAMI.

C. AFTER SA'S RECENT ARREST IN MIAMI BY NVCANOPY ON ESPIONAGE CHARGES. SA HAS BEEN A CONSTANT VISITOR TO S-1'S HOME. SA HAS OSTENSIVELY BEEN SEEKING "TEA AND SYMPATHY" FROM S-1.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

STAFF

78 0527676
PAGE 002 IN 0527676
TDR: 072206Z APR 78 LMIM 28157

CLAIMING HE HAS BEEN FRAMED BY NUCANOPY. WHILE S-1 DOES NOT
BELIEVE SA, S-1'S *CI MIND* AND CURIOSITY HAVE COMPELLED HIM
TO CONTINUE CONTACT WITH SA. IN RECENT WEEKS SA HAS INTRODUCED
S-1 TO IDENS A AND B.

4. S-1. WANTS TWO POINTS MADE CLEAR TO RTACTION AND NUCANOPY.
   ONE, S-1 HAS NEVER BEEN INVOLVED IN SA'S APPARENT ESPIONAGE
   ACTIVITIES. TWO, S-1 VOLUNTEERS TO SERVE AS SA'S CONFIDANT IF
   NVCANOPY AND/OR RTACTION CONSIDER S-1 CAN DO GOOD IN SUCH A
   ROLE. PLEASE ADVISE.

5. STATION HAS NO FILES ON S-1 AND THEREFORE CANNOT COMMENT
   ON NVCANOPY KNOWLEDGE OF RTACTION'S PAST RELATIONSHIP WITH S-1.
   IT IS OUR UNDERSTANDING THAT NUCANOPY HAS BEEN INFORMED OF
   PACHANKIS' ACTIVITIES IN ALIAS JOE NORRIS FOR THE PAST SEVERAL
   YEARS AT THE HQS LEVEL.

6. FILE: 201-(SLANK-1). E2, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CALVIN - SPOB(Spic Payroll) x 2135 called

li SLANK/1 (001-749651) formerly sucrypted AMMUG/1-

- He has old (16 OCT75) MCC which not touched since AUG/76 and wants to know status of case 12-

- is SCANK being paid - as he terminal. S- etc.

Since this fuas case handled by Fachankis we will check the file and let calvin know - have ordered the file on melissa walsh name.

REA
13 Apr 77

ANK/1 true name is VIADIMIR RODRIGUEZ Lahore

Informed "Calvin" on 15 April 77 that SCANK/1 is istill on active contact, not receiving any salary, but could be paid if is when used in an operation. No problems here. SPCB will keep his contract in an active folder. RN 15 Apr -7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

NOTE: WE WILL NOT ASK FOR A DEVISED FACILITY FOR SLANK/1 UNTIL
11 IS DETERMINED HE WILL BE USED AGAIN.

30 JUL 1976

LA/COG/EA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

SUBJECT: Engagement of SLANK-1 (201-749651)

1. Term and Project Charge: Subject has been engaged under oral contract for use under Project SLEEPER. The effective date of the oral contract is 16 Oct 1975.

2. Security Approval: An OA for the operational use of Subject outside the U.S. was granted on 6 Jan 1971.

3. Citizenship: Subject is a United States Citizen.

4. Compensation: Subject is reimbursed for travel expenses and is given a salary replacement for any time he is required to be absent form work at the request of the Agency. The salary reimbursement will not exceed $40 a day. He may be awarded cash bonuses for services rendered. He may also be given gifts from time to time, the individual value of which will not exceed $50.

5. Taxes: Subject is obligated to pay U.S. taxes and should be issued a Devised Facility Form 1099 at the end of each tax year.

6. Quarters and/or Subsistence:
   a. Subject is not furnished quarters or subsistence.
   b. No commitments have been made regarding additional compensation to accommodate increased cost of living and quarters expenses.

7. Operational Expenses: Subject will be reimbursed for operational expenses such as entertainment of operational contacts, phone calls, cover expenses, etc., upon submission of proper accounting for such expenses.

SECRET

![photo of a stamp with the text "RECORD COPY"]

LX-4200

16 Jul 76

E2, IMPDET
CL BY: 025231

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

-2-

8. Contingent Obligations: Although no commitment to this effect has been made to Subject, should the security of Subject or his family become threatened because of activities undertaken by him at the request of this Agency, this Agency would have an obligation to reimburse Subject for expenses required to reduce that threat, including expenses needed to relocate Subject and his family and, if necessary, to supplement his income while he is establishing a new residence and employment.

9. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to Subject.

SIGNED: Case Officer

REVIEWED:

APPROVED: Field Contracting Officer

Attachment: Non-Staff Personnel Data Sheet

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - LA/Personnel w/att
1 - Vital Documents w/att
1 - LA/COG/Chrono
1 - 201-749651
1 - LA/B&F

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET

NON-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. SUBMIT FOR:
A. CONTRACT EMPLOYEES (TYPE A. B AND CAREER)
B. INDEPENDENT CONTRAC ORS UNDER WRITTEN CONTRACT OR MOC (US CITIZENS ΟΩ RESIDENT ALIENS ONLY)
2. THIS FORM IS NOT APPLICABLE FOR OPERATIONAL OR FIELD AGENTS
3. COPIES OF THE FORM WILL BE RETAINED BY THE ORIGINATING COMPONENT (NUMBER OF COFIES AT ITS DISCRETION) AND BY CSPS/AGENT BRANCH (I COPY ONLY)

DATE 16 July 76

NAME (LAST.FIRST.MIDDLF.)

RODRIGUEZ LaHera, Vladimir

MARITAL STATUS NO. DEPENDENTS SEX DATE OF DIRTH

M 3 M 2 Jun 1937

YEAR(S) OF BIRTH NATIONALITY LAST MEDICAL EXAM
(wife) 6 Feb 1937 U.S.
24 Aug 1934

JOD TITLE COMPONENT
DATE OF LATEST SECURITY/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL Amended OA 7 Jan 1971

CONTRACT CATEGORY EFFECTIVE DATE EXPIRATION DATE SALARY GRADE EQUIVALENT PROJECT OR FAN O

B 16 Oct 75 Indefinite

BENEFITS

SOCIAL SECURITY NO X

FECA DEATH AND DISABILITY X

ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE X

CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT X

CIA RETIREMENT OR COMMERCIAL CIA ANNUITY X

FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE X

CONTRACT LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE X

MISSING PERSONS BENEFITS X

OTHER (EAFLAIN) If forced to move for security reasons, CIA would help with expenses. X

NON-CIA EDUCATION

Escuela Publica #46 1st-6th Grade
Primaria Superior #19 7th-3th Grade
Artes y Oficios (Construcion Civil) 1 Year
Instituto de Habana 2 years toward bachelor degree

NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT

| DATES FROM - TO  | EMPLOYER                      | LOCATION     | FUNCTION          | SALARY      |
| ---------------- | ----------------------------- | ------------ | ----------------- | ----------- |
| Aug 63-Apr 64    | Ministry of Foreign Relations | Havana, Cuba | Intel Off         |             |
| May 65-Dec 66    | Scheaffer Advertising Co      | Miami, Fla   | Market Researcher | $600 mo.    |
| Dec 66-CA Dec 74 | Marriot Corp                  | Miami, Fla.  |                   |             |
| Dec 74-Present   | Metro Transit Authority       | Miami, Fla.  | Bus Driver        | $13,000 yr. |

CIA TRAINING

| DATES FROM - TO | FUNCTION  | CONTR. CAT. | LOCATION                  | PROJECT | SALARY   | GRADE EQUIV. |
| --------------- | --------- | ----------- | ------------------------- | ------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Apr 64-Nov 67   | Agent'    | B           | Washington, D.C. & Miarji | AMMUG   | $600 mo. |              |
| Jan 69-Present  | Informant | B           | Miami, Fla.               | SLEEPER | WAE      |              |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# JLUREI

SECURITY

FACTORS AFFECTING SUBJECT (PUBLICOSURE FRESS RADIO TV): KNDON OR SUSP EC IDENTIFICATION TO OTHER THAN
CIA STAFF PERSONNEL. INTELLIGENCE SECURITY SERVICES.

Cuban Intelligence Service

COVER

A. PRESENT COVER IS: OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL

DIVISION EVALUATION OF COVER SECURITY:

At present, subject is not involved in any activities that
require him to use a cover. If and when he travels abroad, he
will use business or personal cover appropriate to the mission
involved.

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE:

ADAPTABILITY (SUBJECT AND FAMILY) TOWARDS DUAL LIFE


B. PREVIOUS.COVER AS: OFFICIAL NON-OFFICIAL (GIVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION IF NOC)

MOCILITY

INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS BOTH PERSONAL AND OPERATIONAL

No known limiting factors

FUTURE UTILIZATION

INDICATE PLANS OR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR USE AFTER CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

Headquarters plans to use Subject to contact and approach
Cubans of operational interest to LA/COG.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Pls Pouch to HOS

SECRET

28 April 1976

1. For the Record: SLANK-1 (S-1) has purchased a home at:

2931 SW 19th Terrace
Miami, Florida

tel: (305) 443-3027.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

![abstract for filing]

LX-4130

SECRET

RECORD COPY

28Apr 76

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

ELS CARLE HQS; INFO CAS.

SECRET C/CLA

27 March 1976

1. At 27 March meeting, PACHANKIS discussed latest CARACAS Station requirements with SPANK-1 (S-1).

2. S-1 not seen SP-1 (P-1) since c. 1964, thus unable provide updated assessment. S-1 does not know P-1's wife.

3. S-1 considers highly improbable P-1 would accept private meeting via phone. P-1 could be suspicious of S-1's motives and might round up own welcoming committee for confrontation.

4. S-1 confidant a direct street meeting -one on one- would offer best opportunity to communicate Agency offer to F-1.

5. S-1's second choice would be home approach, were it known P-1 was alone or only with wife.

6. S-1 is disciplined, discreet, devoted, plucky professional. Who can adapt/ Station name/ plan. States will go anywhere; anytime to cooperate. Prepared take up to 5 days sick leave without pay to participate approach to S-1. Could leave Miami on Saturday, returning latest Sunday following week. S-1 is Amcit and has US passport. S-1 needs c. 1 weeks prior notice to prepare for CARACAS POV.

7. S-1 reviewed names of Cubans on latest Diplomatic List. Only positive was: Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (the Ambassador) who former DGI colleague of S-1.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

3 February 1976.

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: SLANK-1

In reviewing SLANK-1's file for possible leads to targets of interest the following names were selected:

1.  Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart (201-865547)
2.  Ricardo ESPINO Martinez (201-818437)
3.  Federico CRESPO Moreira (201-894397) (in Peru since January 1973)
4.  Rafael MIRABAL Fernandez (KDACOUSTIC-1) (201-812117) (Mexico - February 1967)
5.  Manuel CARDONELL Duque (201-279604) (Capt. Pol. worked with M-1)
6.  Armando "Ulises" ESTRADA Fernandez (201-809440)
7.  Ramon Cesar CUENCA Mintoto (201-328945) (PCS Caracas - October 75 (DGI))
8.  Roque DALTON Garcia (201-215097) (DSE - now in Havana)

Individual files of subject now being reviewed. If one or several of these subjects appears recruitable, a plan will be written up explaining "plan of action."

![Signature of Wilfred O. Clower]
Wilfred O. CLOWER

E2 IMPDET
CL BY Q25231

SECRET

3 Feb 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

18 November 1975

SUBJECT: Change of Address and Phone of SLANK-1 (S-1)

1. S-1 has informed me via a letter to my PO Box that he has moved once again and has a new phone. Please record:

   610 SW 19th Road
   Miami
   telephone (305) 858-3043.

HSP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Ref: DIR 759487

29 October 1975

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1 (S-1)

1. S-1 was met on the evening of 28 October, at his Miami apartment, to inform him of the following:

A. His old DGI chum, Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoto, appeared to be settling down for an extended stay in Caracas.

B. Consequently, our people had decided to study him in depth and decide at a later date what action, if any, could or should be taken against him. i.e. to pitch or not to pitch.

C. Our office had asked me to thank him for his offer to assist in any operation and would keep him in mind in any future plans. 5-1 was grateful to hear these words and reiterated his willingness/availability to help out in this or any other Operation.

2. I thought this to be the most diplomatic and effective way to treat this issue. I wanted to give him an answer yet not say we didn't think him the most likely candidate. S-1 has always been PRESENT when we needed volunteers. He longs to get back in the "business" and there is no doubt he can do the job. They don't care any "gutsier." We never know when we'll need him and its good to know he is there.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

For Slank-1
201-7.49651

29 OCT 75


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# PRIORITY- PLEASE

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLAK-1. (S-1)

2/. DIR 754594
CARACAS 282 ES

16 October 1975

1. S-1 was visited on the evening of 15 October, at his new address (5501 NW 7th St, apt 1065) same phone (443-5463) to discuss recent HUS requirements.

2. S-1 was excited to learn his old boss: Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montoro is in Caracas. "I just knew he had to be there because the Cuban Ambassador (Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo) was my boss in the DGI (c. 1963-64) and 'Cesar' was above us both." (In other words, in c. 1963-64, CUENCA was superior in rank to both S-1 and HERNANDEZ -the present Cuban Ambassador to Venezuela.) (CUENCA was know as Cesar to his coworkers/friends)...

3. S-1 is serioulsly ready, willing and able to partake in any Agency Operation against CUENCA and/or HERNANDEZ. S-1 is an AMCIT and has a valid US passport. His only consideration is obtaining the proper permission from his employers. This is a matter which the Agency MUST solicit for him. As previously reported, 3-1 workes for:

Metro Transit Authority (bus driver)
3300 NW 32. Avenue, Miami.

The persons to be contacted at MTA, to grant S-1 the necessary leave are:

Mr. FNU CROSS and
Mr. M. C. BUTLER

4. The ball is in our court. You cannot ask for a more dedicated/ motivated/educated (re the DSI) than S-1. S-l will be ready to travel the minute Agency obtains necessary permission from MTA.

5. Re: "FERNANDEZ" -the Yemen bised Cuban military instructor- S-1 reports NEGATIVE. (SLARSTIUK-1 had previously reported NEGATIVE)

6. Whatever decision HQS takes, would appreciate being informed so we can notify S-1. He is most dedicated/valuable assest and we owe him this courtesy. In past, he has been alerted and we have failed to notify him of abortions, and left him hanging in mid air.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.

![signature of henry s. pachankis]

![handwritten notes with phone number and date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Sally Davdison is 5 years old yesterday and I took the initiative to instill life in him. Report sir:

S-1s Daughter was in 5 years of age took initiative to instill life. Report sir:

For the appoint: (201) 418-0492 S-1 was my pt # 4 in the event he wants to connect, Sir.

Henry E. Aquiarria

201-74965

SLANK-1

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

28 February 1975

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLACK-1.(S-1)

1. S-1 was contacted on the evening of 27 February, at his Miami home (2761 S 24th Cerrace, tel: 443-0155) re his availability to approach his old friend, Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart.

2. As on all previous occasions when we have asked for S-1's collaboration, S-1's answer WAS AFFIRMATIVE. The only condition is that we obtain his employer's permission to be absent from his present job. He is not entitled to vacation until c. August 1975.

3. S-1 is presently employed as a bus driver for the:

Metro Transit Authority
3300 NW 32nd Avenue
Mami.
Tel: 633-9735.

The persons who must grant the permission are, in this order of rank:

H. I. CROSS

B. L. WALLACE

M. C. BUTLER

4. S-1: has a valid US passport. And, he can be available to travel.the moment his superiors grant him the leave without pay we request.

5. I have again thanked him for his sincere/loyal cooperation. I have promised to keep him abreast of developments.

Henry S. PACHAIKIS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

FORM 30206.
7.71 MFG. 3/74

CABLE SEC DISSEM-BY 3 PER

TOTAL COFIES 181 RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
STAFF
FILE
CAIO
ACTION

T22297 EIA861 PAGE 01 IN 539121
TOR:2818572 FEB 75 LMIM 23060

SECRET 2618302 FEB 75 STAFF

CITE LA/MIAMI 23260 (ENNIS ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR,

REAM

REF: DIRECTOR 661106

1. SLANK 1 CONTACTED BY PACHANKIS 27 FEB. 75.

2. AS IN THE PAST. S-1 INDICATED HE IS WILLING TO MAKE AN APPROACH TO SUBJECT PER REF. S-1 IS NOW EMPLOYED WITH THE LOCAL METRO TRANSIT AUTHORITY AND IS NOT DUE A VACATION UNTIL AFTER MID-1975: THEREFORE ANY ABSENCE FROM WORK MUST BE REQUESTED BY BKHERALD AND APPROVED BY ANY ONE OF HIS SUPERIORS (H.I. CROSS, B.L. WALLACES M.C. BUTLER -- IN ORDER OF DESCENDING AUTHORITY).

3. S-1 HAS VALID U.S. PASSPORT AND CAN TRAVEL WHEN NEEDED.

4. FILE: 201-2749651, E2, IMPDET.

RECORD COPY

SECRET

![photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# OUTGOIN MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ON

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 13-1

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF 262113Z DIRECTOR

CONF: LA10 INFO: FILE /AN

TO: LA/MIAMI.Y

REAM Y

1. HAS CONSIDERING POSSIBILITY OF USING VLADIMIR RODRIGU-

E Z LAHERA/(201-749651) IN APPROACH TO HIS OLD FRIEND ROBERTO
RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART (201-8655473.4

2. REQUEST PACHANKIS DETERMINE PRESENT WHEREABOUTS OF
RODRIGUEZ LAHERA AND WHETHER OR NOT HE WILLING AND AVAILABLE TO
ASSIST IN APPROACH.Y

3. FILE: 201-749651, 201-665547. E2, IMPDET.H

B-201-865547.

DATE: 26 FEBRUARY 1975

ORIG: MARY MUSGRAVE CB

UNIT: LA/COG/OPS

EXT: 9229

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

> [Figure: Image of handwritten notes and stamps]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

21 December 1974

SUBJECT: Contact Report on SLANK-1. (S-1)

1. S-1 was met on the afternoon of 21 December, for abrief social call, to pay our respects and present him with a bottle of Scotch for the Christmas season.

2. S-1 was grateful not only for the gift but to see we had not forgotten him. His home life seems to have settled down after some rocky periods earlier in the year and he has a new, more secure position as bus driver for the Metro Transit Authority here in Miami. As previously reported, he has also taken the Postal Service exams and would accepted a letter carrier's job if it is offered to him.

3. As always, S-1 is ready to assist us in any way that he can. If Roberto RODRIGUEZ Lliompart should ever come out again, 5-1 can be counted on to make an approach. All that we would have to do is to contact his employers and obtain the necessary permission.

Henry S. PACHANKIS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGE
SIGNAL CENTE
ONLY
TPZ
MRQ
DCI
OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0
LASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
DATE TIME GROUP
CITE
STAFF CONF: C/LAS INFO: FILE CLIPIAN, CIEURO, c/cilopa DIRECTOR
PAGE OF PAGES
1
MASSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
613425
0 INDE DISSEM BY: 29
0 NO INDE
0 RETURN TO PER
0 PFILES #

TO: PRIORITY MADRID.Y

RYBAT REAM SLASH Y

REF: MADRID 24401 |IN 3951431 Y

CL. APPRECIATE MADRID'S OFFER ATTEMPT APPROACH SLASH-1. HOUEVER, UISH STAND-DOWN FOR MOMENT ON OP, SINCE WE SEE NO CHANCE OF SUCCESS USING ONLY NAME OF SLANK-1. ۲

2. SLANK-1 DISAPPEARED SEVERAL MONTHS AGO. HENRY S. PACHANKIS, WHO IN CONTACT WITH SLANK-1, PRESENTLY N.Y. WHERE INVOLVED OTHER OPERATIONAL PRIORITIES, AND UNABLE RETURN MIAMI TRY TRACK DOWN SLANK-1. WE HOPE DO SO WHEN PACHANKIS RETURNS MIAMI, AND WILL THEN THINK IN TERMS OF SLASH-1'S NEXT TRIP OUT.۲

3. FILE: 201-365547. E2 IMPDET.

LA COMMENT: REF OFFERED CO MADRID TO APPROACH SLASH-L USING NAME SLANK-1 (CHILDHOOD FRIEND OF SLASH-1) AS BONA FIDES.

SLANK-1
201-779651

DATE: 23 OCT 74
ORIG: JOAN SILVERLIED MI
UNIT: LA/COG/OPS
EXT: 9229/
C/LA/COG
2/EUR
Auf.CATING OFFICER
E2 IMPDET
CI. BY: 230ct 74
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 2

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED LA

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT CIA 8
RF FILE VR

ACTION # dosolic, doso, YOPSTINT 2, IPSIEG 3.

T 513726 E1A516

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER 1
ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIDI

STAFF

IN 395143
MADR 24401

PAGE 01

TOR:2317262 OCT 74

SECRET 2316512 OCT 74 STAFF

CITE MADRID 24401

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

AVAAK REAM SLASH (~ 390775)

REFSI A. MADRID 24341

B. DIRECTOR 611511

1. QUTIMID OF 21 OCTOBER REPORTS THAT SLASH-1 WILL BE
   IN MADRID FOR TEN OR FIFTEEN DAYS. CUBAN EMBASSY IS
   REQUESTING 22 DAY VISA FOR HIM. SLASH-1 IS IN MADRID
   NEGOTIATING WITH THREE SPANISH FIRMS FOR COMPLETE EQUIPMENT
   OF PLANTS FOR CUBAN MINISTRY OF MINES. NO INDICATION
   YET OF WHERE SLASH-1 STAYING GUT EXPECT ASCERTAIN THROUGH
   QUTIMID.

2. ASSUME FROM REFB THAT SLANK-1 NO LONGER
   AVAILABLE FOR APPROACH TO SLASH-1. IF HOS DESIRES, MADRID
   STATION WILL ATTEMPT APPROACH SLASH-1 USING NAME OF
   SLANK-1 AS BONA FIDES.

3. FILE: 201-0365547, E2 IMPDET,

![photo of date and code]

SECRET

23 Oct 74


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

B. SLALOM-1-- He is close to Nestor RAMIREZ,
a CURAPESCA Representative who is currently in Tokyo.
SLALOM-1 states RAMIREZ is approachable because RAMIREZ
is definitely not a Comunist, and he thinks very much
like him (SLALOM-1)

C.SLANK-1 He mentioned to PACHANKIS that
he had been close to Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart, a Cuban
Mining Official who often travels to Mexico and Canada.

D. Gustavo MAS Brother-in-law of the current
Cuban Ambassador to Mexico. MAS has advised PACHANKIS
that he is willing to help us only to the extent of
determining the feelings of his sister and the Ambassador
at any given time, but no more. lle will not accept any
remuneration from us and will foot his own bill to visit
his sister.

E. SICCOL-1 and SLACE-1 In describing the
former, PACHANKIS referred to him as from another
generation, i.e., of the ROA class, who could possibly.
be used with any older Cuban officials that might still
be around. He cautionca however, that SLCOOL-1 had
undergone a delicate cancer operation two years ago
which might impede his usefulness. As concern SLACE-1,
PACHANKIS suggested that we were probably better off
forgetting him. lie described SLACE-1 as very problematical
and then went on to add such adjectives as avaricious,
sly, secretive, and a person inclined not to follow-
through on any task given him.

6. PACHANKIS believes that much can be done with
   the above defectors against the targets mentioned and,
   himself, is anxious to get involved in another recruitment
   operation as soon as possible.

Frank C. Esquivel
WH/COG/FI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOT

ACTION UNIT
WHS
FILE
VR FPAN EURO OSG
CIBER OPSTENT PSTEGY Osotac

ACTION
T 147660
E1A780
PAGE 01-01
IN 265330
TOR:2919382 MAY 74
WMIM 21838

SECRET 2918282 MAY 74 STAFF

CITE WH/MIAM: 21838

TO: PRIORITY OTTAWA INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

REAM FHABOVE

REF: OTTAWA 23304 (IN 264930)

1. REGRET TO ADVISE THAT SLANK-1 WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE FOR OPS TRAVEL UNTIL 9 JUNE 1974. HIS EMPLOYER - INDICATED WILLINGNESS FREE SLANK-1 FOR TRAVEL FOR USG UNDER NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES: HOWEVER, TWO OF SLANK-1 FELLOW WORKERS CURRENTLY ON JURY DUTY AND EMPLOYER REGRETFULLY UNABLE LISERATE SLANK-I FROM WORK COMMITMENT UNTIL 9 JUNE.

2. FILE: 201-3327261 201-749651

E2 IMPDET

B201-865547

RECORD COPY
SECRET

201-749651
29 May 74

29 May 74


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ASSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
WH8
ACTION
FILE VR

TOTAL COPIES: 22
SECRET:

2005
PAN CLOP2 EURB

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THI
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE
STAFF

T 038889 E1A064
PAGE: 01-01
IN 226286
TOR:1719572 APR 74
WMIM 21548

SECRET 1719532 APR 74 STAFF

CITE WH/MIAMI 21548 (BEARDSLEY ACTING)

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MADRID.

AKULE REAM

REF: DIRECTOR 538829

1. *PACHANKIS IN TOUCH WITH SLANK-1 WHO WILLING TO TRAVEL,* SLANK-1'S
   NEW EMPLOYER WOULD HAVE TO BE CONTACTED BY STATION SECURITY OFFICER
   TO OBTAIN PERMISSION FOR LWOP. OBTAINING INFO ON NEW EMPLOYER TO
   START CLEARANCE PROCEDURE,

2. FILE: 201-2865447. E-2, IMPDET.

RECORD COPY
SECRET

![table]

201-749651
17 APR 74


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, WH/Miami

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

FROM: Acting Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBACK: Study of Cuban Defectors

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR DIDEXING

NO INDELING REQUIRED

OGY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUNGE INDE KING

MICROFEM

Reference: UFAA-4701, 11 January 1973

Forwarded under separate cover is a copy of a personality assessment report prepared by Lawrence R. SELJACK (P) concerning AMMUG-1.

Linda N. QUASHNOCK

Attachment:

Assessment report U/S/C

Distribution:

3 - COS, WII/Miami w/att U/S/C

RECORD COPY

2

IMPDET CL E-008385

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:

1 - WH/COG/Chrono

1 - 201-749651

1 - Originator

AN

AB

IN

PS

EX

DES-NED

FI

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAW-1709

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

30 MAY 1973

23 May 1973

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-749651

OFFICE

DDO/WH/COG/ MBingham: rf

EXT.

1819

OFFICE SYMBOL

COORDINATING

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

OFFICE SYMBOL

DATE

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNALTy

Lawrence Sternfield


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISPATCH NO - UFAS-2195

FILE NO - 201-749651

DATE - 29 AUGUST 1972

INDEX - NO

FILM - NO

TO - CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

INFO - NONE

FROM - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

SUBJECT - AKULE/TYPIC/AMMUG-1

ACTION - SEE BELOW

REFS - UFAT-3304, 21 AUGUST 1972

1. AMMUG-1 WILL BE ADVISED REGARDING INTERVIEW BUT THE PROCESSING MAY TAKE 3-6 MONTHS DEPENDING ON WORK-LOAD MIAMI INS.

2. E2, IMPDET.

WANDA F. BREMSON

DISTRIBUTION -

3 - COS, WH/MIAMI /BY TAPE/

Distribution:

1 - WH/COG/CHRONO

1 - WH/COG/OS

1 - Originator

1 - 201-749651

![signature of Vivian Barry]
Originated by: Vivian Barry, WH/COG/OS X4163

![signature of Grover Bell]
Released by: Grover Bell
C/WH/COG

![number 2 and other numbers]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

WH/COG/242-72
28 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Security/Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT : Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lahera

It is requested that Subject be processed for naturalization. IGXS forms, completed and signed by Subject, are attached.

Vivian Barry
W/COC/OS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

CRIS: WILLIAM STUREITTS:ak

UNIT: WH/COG/OS

EXT: 4165 R. 1325

DATE: 17 AUGUST 1972

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY:

CONF:

SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID

FILE INCS FILE NO.

TO:

WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMMUG

REF: DIRECTOR 301165

CITE DIRECTOR

302184

1. COPY AMNUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL, (PRIVATE LAW 92-92, 30 JUNE
72) TM NO. 533651 IN 28 AUG 72 POUCH.

2. FILE: 201-749651. E2, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature]

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WID

CS COPY

![stamp]

LAWRENCE ST. FIELD
C/WH/COC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# ORIGNATING MESSAGE

1520572 (J 302

DTG:

CONF WHS SECUR4 OLC ccsz also

301165
301165

TYPIC AIMUG

REF: PH/MIAMI 15472 IN 163346

1.  AMRUG-1 SHOULD COMPLETE THE PAPERS AND STATION FORWARD

COMPLETED PAPERS TO HQS, ATTN: OTIS C. VIGEANT. TYPIC BAT SELL.

PREPARE MEMO AND FORWARD PAPERS TO ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF FOR INS

HAS PROCESSING.

2.  EXPECT RECEIVE COPY OF AMRUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL WITHIN

NEXT FEW DAYS. WILL POUCH TO STATION WHEN RECEIVED.

3.  FILE 201-749651. EE INPUT UN-SISH.

CS COPY

201-749651
15 August 72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

ROUTING AND, OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE VR

/PLAN, CI, cildes, CiloA, SEGURY, OLC

ACTION NO
763

SECRET 141555Z AUG 72 STAFF
CITE WH/MIAMI 15470

DIRECTOR.

AKULE TYPIC AMMUG

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 291693

B. UFAT 3301

653346

4

1. MR. JAMES TILLMAN OF LOCAL INS CONTACTED STATION AND INFORMED US THAT AMMUG-1 HAD CONTACTED HIM FOR ASSISTANCE IN INITIATING NATURALIZATION PROCEEDINGS (WE HAD PREVIOUSLY ALTERED TILLMAN OF POSSIBLE AMMUG-I CONTACT FOR SUCH ASSISTANCE).

2. TILLMAN STATED HE NOT AUTHORIZED ASSIST AS PRIVATE CITIZENSHIP BILL HANDLED BY HIS CENTRAL OFFICE WHICH MUST ISSUE INSTRUCTIONS TO LOCAL OFFICE FOR ACTION. TILLMAN INFORMED US THAT HE GAVE AMMUG-1 VARIOUS FORMS TO COMPLETE AND RETURN TO STATION. COMPLETED FORMS SHOULD BE FORWARDED TO BKTRUST HQS ATTENTION ALIEN AFFAIRS STAFF WHICH SHOULD REVIEW AND THEN FORWARD ON TO INS CENTRAL HQS. INS HQS WILL THEN ADVISE LOCAL OFFICE WHAT ACTION TO TAKE, AFTER WHICH AMMUG-1 WILL BE GRANTED CITIZENSHIP.

3. PLEASE ADVISE SOONEST WHETHER ASOVE PROCEDURE CORRECT

CS COPY
SECRET

AN
ABY
IS
B
D

14ting 72
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN DY

SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
1
5
EXCLLEED FROM AUTOMATIC
2
6
DOWNGRADING AND
EN CLASSICATION
3
7
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
8

AUG 28, 9 24 AM '72

BY: AT:

DISSEM BY PER RECEIVED
IPTEDI
ACTION UNIT FILE, VR

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 15470 SECRET

AND WHAT ELSE MUST BE DONE SO WE CAN ADVISE AMMUG-1 WHAT TO
DO WHEN HE, AND HE WILL VERY SHORTLY, CONTACTS US.

4. ALSO REQUEST DATE WHEN WE CAN EXPECT RECEIVE COPY OF
   AMMUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL.

5. FILE: 201-749651. E2 IMPDET WN-SISM.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

DISPATCH NO TELEPOUCH

DATE UFAT 3391

FILE 29 JULY 1972

TO 291-749651

FROM CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

SBUJECT CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

REF TYPIC/AMMUG - AMMUG/1 REENTRY PERMIT

DIRECTOR 289809

FORWARDED UNDER SEPARATE COVER IS AMMUG/1'S REENTRY

PERMIT FOR DELIVFYP TO 14NS.

STANLEY F. SPECKLER

ATTACHMENT: USC (VIA POUCH 2460(7)6 1972)

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH-

3 C/VHD:V/ATT USC

EX-2 APDIR, UN-SISM.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

T/N/P

USC ATTACHMENT TO UFAR-3301 (TELEPOUCH)

TO: C/WIID

FROM: COS, WII/MIAMI

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CULUS HOPKINS:cb
WI/CCG/OS
1163
19 July 1972

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET

WI/MIAMI
1972 23 422
CITE DIRECTOR
2971693

REF: WI/MIAMI 15074 (IN 6-19-499)

1. PRESIDENT SIGNED ANDUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL (P.L. 92-92) 30 JUNE. A-1 MAY NOW INITIATE NATURALIZATI ON PROCEEDINGS.

2. FILE: 201-749651. EX-2, AFDIR, WN-SISM.

END OF MESSAGE

OLC Pat Carpentier (telecord)

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD

CAMILLE BATHE
DC/WI/COG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN.DY

GERIS LOPKINS: ak
MI/COG/OS
4163 R.1325
14 JULY 1972

FILE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

LUHS FILE VR. IPLAN, SECURY

SECRET

14 JUL 72 20 282

CITE DIRECTOR 2898007

WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMMUG

1. WOBONE HAS REQUESTED AMMUG-1 REENTRY PERMIT FOR DELIVERY I&NS. PLS POUCH SOONEST.

2. FILE: 201-749651. EX. 2, APDIR, WN.SISM;

END OF MESSAGE.

![table]

OS/AAS John Rooney (telecoord) 201-749651

WH/SEC

LAWRENCE STERNFIELD
C/WH/COG

WH/SS

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY
C/WHD

SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

John Scorey, CS/AAS, called. He wants /reerter Halt returned to him for delivery to IS. Al Aort was sused to do this, but apparently did not.

Perice

p.s. JUG is Vladirir Rahera, rectest would be made to Viami.

Berny

Will you please handle this for me? Ann

201-749651

Cable Deus to Will Miami 14 July 72

June

14 July 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIΝΑ ΠΟΝ
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASO FED MESSAGE

*SECRET*
(Win Filled In)

TOTAL C

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN B

1. 
5

2. 
6

3

7

4

8

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

PEIPOSUCT OF THIS COPY FROY SITED

BY:

DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT.

PER

WHB

FILE VAPE C años SR4

ACTICS NG
632

SECRET 301452 N 12 STAFF

CITE WH/MIAMI 15075.

DIRECTOR.

AXLETYPIC AMNUG

REFS WH/MIAMI 15074 (@649499)

IDEN: VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA GP-1

649500

SECRET

![image of routing table]

SECRET

30 Jun 72
201-74965/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNLT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

BY: AT: Z
DISSEM BY: 29/30 PER
ACTION UNIT: WH8 FILE VR PLAN, OLC, CILOPS, SECURY
ACTION NO: 565

CLASS FRED MESSAGE
**SECRET** GROUP 1
(When Filled In) EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

TOTAL COPIES 18-1

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

SECRET 301456Z JUN 72 STAFF
649499
CITE WH/MIAMI 15074
DIRECTOR.

AKULE TYPIC AMMUG

REF: DIRECTOR 283581

1. AMMUG-1 PLANS NO LEGAL NAME CHANGE. WILL FILE
   NATURALIZATION PETITION AS IDEN.

2. FILE: 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET
30 Jun 72
201 749657

![illegible table]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

KIG GIRIS HOPKINS:dh
NIT: 111/COG/OS
T
4163/1325
26 JINE 1972
ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SECRET

27 72 21 412

> ΓΚΗ/ΝΙΑΜΙ
> TYPIC AMIG

1. SENATE PASSED AMMUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL. PRESIDENT'S SIGNATURE
   EXPECTED WITHIN 6 TO 10 DAYS. FLS ADVISE IF A-1 FLANS LEGAL NAVE CHANGE
   AT TIME HE FILES PETITION FOR NATURALIZATION.

2. FILE: 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

'OOG/COMMENT: The Office of Legislative Counsel wants to know if A-1, a DGI officer who
defected to the U.S. in 1964, plans to change his name when he files
petition for naturalization in near future.

OLC Mr. Carpentier (Telecoord)

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY)2
C/HD

RELEASING OFFICER

LANTENCE M. STERNFIELD
CAM/COG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

LASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

DISSEM BY: 35 PER
ACTION UNIT WH8 FILE: VR /(P/AN) SECURY
ACTION NO. 166

SECRET 27 JUN 72 STAFF

CITE WH/MIAMI 15339

DIRECTOR.

27 JUN IN 646464
RD

AKULE TYPIC AMMUG

REF: DRIECTOR 250368

1. REQUEST STATUS AMMUG/ CITIZENSHIP BILL WHICH PER
   REF BEING CONSIDERED BY SENATE.

2. FILE: 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET

3 COPIES
SECRET

![stamped A1, A2, ..., FI]

201-7749651
27 June 1972


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

A letter, with attached memorandum, dated October 6, 1971, to the chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives from the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization with reference to the case, reads as follows:

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE,
Washington, D.C., October 6, 1971.

A-13721684.

Hon. EMANUEL CELLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: In response to your request for a report relative to the bill (H.R. 2076) for the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, there is attached a memorandum of information concerning the beneficiary.

The bill is apparently intended to permit the beneficiary to become naturalized as a citizen of the United States notwithstanding his ineligibility to citizenship by reason of his membership or affiliation with an organization as proscribed in section 313 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. He has been a lawful permanent resident of the United States since April 29, 1964.

Sincerely,

RAYMOND F. FARRELL,
Commissioner.

MEMORANDUM OF INFORMATION FROM IMMIGRATION AND
NATURALIZATION SERVICE FILES RE H.R. 2076

The beneficiary, Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, a native and citizen of Cuba, was born on February 6, 1937. His parents and two brothers are natives, citizens and residents of Cuba. He married Marion Cuca-Calla, a native and citizen of Cuba, on August 13, 1959, in Havana, Cuba. This marriage was terminated by divorce in October 1959. There was no issue of this union. On December 17, 1963, the beneficiary married Luisa Rodriguez Timoneda, a native and citizen of Cuba, in Havana, Cuba. She was born on August 24, 1934, in Havana, Cuba, and is a lawful permanent resident of the United States. One child, Luisa, was born of this marriage on May 25, 1970, in Miami, Fla., and is a citizen of the United States. Mrs. Rodriguez marriage to Vicente del Rosario Hernandez-Garcia on September 3, 1919, in Havana, Cuba, was terminated by divorce October 11, 1963. Two children were born of this marriage in Havana, Cuba, Vincente Maximiliano, on August 21, 1950, and Francisca Luciana, on January 7, 1952. The boy died in Miami, Fla., in 1968 and the girl became a naturalized citizen of the United States on September 2, 1971. Mrs. Rodriguez and her two daughters reside with the beneficiary in Miami, Fla.

The beneficiary obtained the equivalent of 8 years of elementary education and 2 years of vocational school in his

S. Rept. SSO

native country. Since December 1966, he has been employed as a supervisor of food hanillers for a local aircraft catering service at a weekly salary of $110. Prior to his present employment, he was a market research salesman for a local advertising company. His wife, is employed as a machine operator for a local dress manufacturer at a weekly salary of $85. Their combined assets consisting of two automobiles, real and personal property and possessions, total $23,500. The real property bears a mortgage of $17.500.

The beneficiary arrived in the United States from Canada on April 29, 1964. at Thousand Islands Bridge, N.Y., and was paroled into the United States for an indefinite period under the parole provisions of the Inimigration and Nationality. Act. On November 7, 1966, his status was changed to that of a lawful permanent resident of the United States and the date of his admission recorded as of April 29, 1964.

On his alien registration form the beneficiary listed employment with the General Directorate of Intelligence of the Cuban Government from August 16, 1963, until April 21, 1964, just prior to his defection. He also showed military service in the Cuban Rebel Army from February 4, 1959, until December 20, 1961.

The beneficiary desires to become a citizen of the United States because of his long period of residence and to enhance his opportunity for advancement in his vocation.

Private bill H.R. 17740, 91st Congress, introduced in the beneficiary's behalf was not enacted.

The committee, after consideration of all the facts in the case, is of the opinion that the bill (H.R. 2076) should be enacted.

S. Rept. SSO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# VLADIMIR RODRIGUEZ LAHERA

92D CONGRESS.
2d Session

SENATE

{

Calendar No. 841

REPORT
No. 92-880

JUNE 19, 1972 Ordered to be printed

Mr. EASTLAND, from the Committee on the Judiciary,
submitted the following

REPORT

[To accompany H.R. 2076)

The Committee on the Judiciary, to which was referred the bill
(H.R. 2076) for the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, having
considered the same, reports favorably thereon without amendment
and recommends that the bill do pass.

## PURPOSE OF THE BILL

The purpose of the bill is to enable Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera
to file a petition for naturalization, notwithstanding the fact that he
was formerly a member of a proscribed organization.

## STATEMENT OF FACTS

The beneficiary of the bill is a 35-year-old native and citizen of Cuba,
whose status was adjusted to that of a lawful resident alien on No-
vember 7, 1966, retroactive to April 29, 1964, the date on which he was
paroled into the United States from Canada. He resides in Miami, Fla.,
with his wife, a lawful resident alien, and two daughters. The bene-
ficiary was employed in Cuba with the General Directorate of Intelli-
gence, and served in the Cuban Rebel Army. Without enactment of
the bill, the beneficiary would be unable to petition for naturalization
until 1974.

63-007


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

A letter, with attached memorandum, dated October 6, 1971, to the chairman of the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives from the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization with reference to the case, reads as follows:

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE,
IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE,
Washington, D.C., October 6, 1971.

A-13721684.

Hon. EMANUEL CELLER,
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.

DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: In response to your request for a report relative to the bill. (H.R. 2076) for the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez La Hera, there is attached a memorandum of information concerning the beneficiary.

The bill is apparently intended to permit the beneficiary to become naturalized as a citizen of the United States notwithstanding his in-eligibility to citizenship by reason of his membership or affiliation with an organization as proscribed in section 313 of the Immigration and Nationality Act. He has been a lawful permanent resident of the United States since April 29, 1964.

Sincerely,

RAYMOND F. FARRELL,
Commissioner.

MEMORANDUM OF INFORMATION FROM IMMIGRATION AND
NATURALIZATION SERVICE FILES RE H.R. 2076

The beneficiary, Vladimir Rodriguez La Hera, a native and citizen of Cuba, was born on February 6, 1937. His parents and two brothers are natives, citizens and residents of Cuba. He married Marion Cuca-Calla, a native and citizen of Cuba, on August 13, 1959, in Havana, Cuba. This marriage was terminated by divorce in October 1959. There was no issue of this union. On December 17, 1963, the beneficiary married Luisa Rodriguez-Timoneda, a native and citizen of Cuba, in Havana, Cuba. She was born on August 24, 1934, in Havana, Cuba, and is a lawful permanent resident of the United States. One child, Luisa, was born of this marriage on May 25, 1970, in Miami, Fla., and is a citizen of the United States. Mrs. Rodriguez marriage to Vicente del Rosario Hernandez-Garcia on September 3, 1949, in Havana, Cuba, was terminated by divorce October 14, 1963. Two children were born of this marriage in Havana, Cuba, Vincente Maximiliano, on August 21, 1950, and Francisca Luciana, on January 7, 1952. The boy died in Miami, Fla., in 1968 and the girl became a naturalized citizen of the United States on September 2, 1971. Mrs. Rodriguez and her two daughters reside with the beneficiary in Miami, Fla.

The beneficiary obtained the equivalent of S years of elementary education and 2 years of vocational school in his native country. Since December 1966, he has been employed as a supervisor of food handlers for a local aircraft catering service at a weekly salary of $140. Prior to his present employment, he was a market research salesman for a local advertising company. His wife is employed as a machine operator for a local dress manufacturer at a weekly salary of $85. Their combined assets consisting of two automobiles, real and personal property and possessions, total $33,500. The real property bears a mortgage of $17.500.

The beneficiary arrived in the United States from Canada on April 29, 1964. at Thousand Islands Bridge. N.Y., and was paroled into the United States for an indefinite period under the parole provisions of the Inimigration and Nationality Act. On November 7, 1966, his status was changed to that of a lawful permanent resident of the United States and the date of his admission recorded as of April 29, 1964.

On his alien registration form the beneficiary listed employment with the General Directorate of Intelligence of the Cuban Government from August 16, 1963, until April 21, 1964, just prior to his defection. He also showed military service in the Cuban Rebel Army from February 4, 1959, until December 20, 1961.

The beneficiary desires to become a citizen of the United States because of his long period of residence and to enhance his opportunity for advancement in his vocation.

Private bill II.R. 17740, 91st Congress, introduced in the beneficiary's behalf was not enacted..

The committee, after consideration of all the facts in the case, is the opinion that the bill (II.R. 2076) should be enacted.

S. Rept. SSO

S. Rept. SSO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

DETAILED JUSTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT

5 APR 1972

1.  Vladimir RODRIGUEZ Lailera has cooperated with this Agency since his defection on 21 April 1964 at which time he turned over to CIA documents from the General Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) he had collected during the proceeding several months. In addition, he has provided voluminous, accurate and valuable information on the organization of the Cuban intelligence services, their operations, staff members and agents. These documents and information have given us the potential and opportunity to take effective measures to safeguard United States Government interests. Subject has been of great value in the past, and will continue to be in the future, in the CIA recruitment/ defection program. His wide acquaintance among and knowledge concerning high level Cuban diplomats and Cuban intelligence personnel provides the Agency with the necessary background in planning operations against them and makes Subject ideal for use in carrying out the operations. His talents and contacts have been used not only in furthering the defector program, but in other types of political action, psychological warfare and recruitment operations.

2.  As a result of technical interrogations of RODRIGUEZ on 11 May 1964 and again on 15 July 1966, and objective operational testing since, his bona fides have been established not only for intelligence exploitation purposes but also for the purpose of resettlement in the United States. There is no reason to believe that RODRIGUEZ is under the control of any hostile intelligence service.

3.  The psychiatric and periodic medical examinations have shown that RODRIGUEZ has no serious medical or psychiatric problems.

4.  Mr. RODRIGUEZ has adjusted well to American life. He has been trained as a dental technician and for the past two years has been working for the Marriott Corporation, specifically

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

as manager of the airlines' catering division in Miami. He is pleased with this new occupation. There is every reason to expect that he would be a responsible and loyal citizen.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET
(When Filled In)

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

DISPATCH NUMBER
UFAA-4021
DATE
7 April 72
ENCLOSURE NUMBER
1
PAGE NUMBER
1
PARAGRAPH NUMBER
2
SECURITY REGULATION(S) VIOLATED
FR 10-315, 1 July 53. Para 2b (1) (a)
SUBSTANCE OF VIOLATION
Re: UFAA 4018 Use of crypt & True identity in same
UFAA 4019 pouch. Specifically. This is the use of
UFAA 4020
"Cuban defectors" in dispatch and sending the dispatch in pouch which has other dispatches of same format and basic subject, but using the crypt for Cuba

RID. ANALYST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# DISPATCH

FROM Chief of Station, Paris OFP

INFO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division;
Chief, European Division

TO Chief of Station, WH/Miami

SUBJECT: REBUMEN/Photographs of Cuban Diplomats in Paris

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Reference: OFPW 46605, 2 March 1972

1. The photographs of Petra Concepcion Barragan Garcia (201-854152), Carlos Esteban Ramos Frias (201-826455),
   (201-977551), Maria Victoria Aignet Urena,
   Pedro Lara Zamora (201-SSS367) and wife and Marco Campanioni Tamayo (201-886144) and his wife were reviewed with AMSTAFF defector on 6 April 1972 with negative results.

2. The photographs will be reviewed with other Cuban defectors who are the responsibility of WH/Miami and we will advise you of any positive results.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Distribution:
3 - COS, Paris
2 - Chief, WHD
1 - Chief, EURD

![DOC. MICRO. SER. APR 13 1972 MICROFILMED stamp]

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION
NO FIELD DISTRICTION

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFAA-4021

DATE Typed: 7 April 1972

HQS FILE NUMBER 201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# DISTIC

ID:

Chief of cation, Ottawa

INFO:

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division; Chief, EUR

FROM:

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

SUBJECT:

PERUEN/SMABOVE-Felix M. MILIAN Pantoja (201-883219)

ACTION REQUIRED/REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR UDEXING

INO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Reference: OCOA-16803, 11 March 1972

1. The photographs of Felix M. Milian Pantoja (Subject) and his wife, Luisa M. Gonzalez Sabio, wore reviewed with AMMUG-1 on 6 April 1972. While GONZALEZ was familiar to AMMUG-1 he could not provide any information o.. her. He did not, however, recognize Subject.

2. We will review the photographs of Subject and nis wife with the other defectors who are the responsibility of WE/Miami and advise you of any positive results.

3. Station is most appreciative of the high quality photographs that we have recently been receiving from SMACT via SMABOVE.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Distribution:

3 - COS, Ottawa

3 - Chief, WHD.

2 - Chief, EUR

![illegible text] 883019

![illegible text] FOR OG FLC

201- 749651

CROSS REFERENCE 10

201-749652

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAA-1018

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

Typed: 7 April 1972

HOS FILE NUMBER

201-SS3219


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

## SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Paris;
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division;
Chief, European Division

FROM: Chief of Station, WH/Miami

SUBJECT: OSNOWN/INFOUND-Rolando MENESES de la Hoya (201-771827)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

Reference: OFFA 97498, 23 February 1972

Copies of the original photographs of Rolando
Meneses de la Hoya and his wife, Sara Manresa
Gonzalez, which were forwarded to us by Headquarters, were
reviewed with AMSTAFF defector AMMUG-1 on 6 April 1972 with
negative results. The photographs will be reviewed with
other Cuban defectors who are the responsibility of WH/Miami
and we will advise you of any positive results.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Distribution:
3 - COS, Paris
3 - COS, WHID
2 - Chief, EURD

DISPATCH COPY
FOR CROSS FILING IN:

201-749651

TYPED: 7 April 1972

CROSS REFERENCE TO:
201-749551

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:
UFAA-4019

NOS FILE NUMBER:
201-771827


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

ORIG: ALBERT J. AMORI:GHD
UNIT: LH/COG/FI
EXT: 1611/5010
DATE: 31 MARCH 1972

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY J5 PER

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

MESSAGE
FOR
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

CONFI WHE FILE VR P/A11

(elite)
(reference number)
(date and time filed) 1 MAR72 CJ 372

CITE DIRECTOR 250368

(classification)
SECRET

TO LH/MIAMI

AMMUG

1. HOUSE PASSED AMMUG-1 CITIZENSHIP BILL. BILL NOW IN SENATE.
   MAY TAKE ANOTHER MONTH BEFORE DECISION REACHED.

2. FILE: 201-749651. GP-L.

END OF MESSAGE

![Signature of James E. Flannery]

JAMES E. FLAFINERY
AC/UHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
S-E-C-R-E-T

1 Apr 72
201-749651

![Signature of Laurence Sternfield]

LAURENCE STERNFIELD
C/LH/COG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COPY NO

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

CONFIDENTIAL

EXCERPT FROM JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 24 February 1972

3. (Confidential - JGO) Met with Mr. Garner J. Cline, Counsel, Subcommittee No. 1, House Judiciary Committee, who told me that there would be no problem with the Democratic objector relating to H. R. 2076, a bill for the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera. Mr. Donald Benn, Associate Counsel of the Judiciary Committee, has not touched base as yet with the Republican objector but will do so before the private calendar is called on 7 March.

Mr. Cline told me also that the Davis bill, H. R. 5176 was formally tabied by the full Committee in its meeting of 22 February. The tabling was without discussion on the basis of an adverse recommendation by the Subcommittee.

See Memo for Record dated 11 February 1972 on A, Trevor Gallaher.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

CONFIDENTIAL

EXCERPT FROM JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

3. (Confidential - JGO) Met with Mr. Drury Blair, Senate Immigration and Naturalization Subcommittee staff, who told me that due to the primaries in the Chairman's home state he did not believe that any further meetings of the Subcommittee will be held until mid June. H. R. 2076, a bill for the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, is on the agenda for the next Subcommittee meeting. Miss Chris Hopkins, WH Division, has been advised.

Salkyra.
Ke Hod
July
Pat Cerpention.
Legislative Counsel

X 9.2.27
Bill for wow of 10 ya winkype wat has
Paasid E. Houssis


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# PERNICE TURBEVILLE:ak
## WH/COG/FI
## 7265. R. 9229
## 16 FEB 72

FILE RID

SECRET

WH/MIAMI INFO: MADRID

TYPIC AMETROPIA

REF: WH/MIAMI 13554 (IN 533389)

1. AGREE WITH REF CRITERIA FOR FURTHER FURSUIT AMETROPIA/1 CASE.

2. FILE: 201-865547 AND 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT: Miami suggests we not position AMMUG/1 for possible contact with AMETROPIA/1 until he is PCS or TDY long enough to permit an orderly approach.

![signature of JAMES E. FLANNERY]

JAMES E. FLANNERY

AC/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

E/TR

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

17 Feb 72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASELED MESSAGE、ICIAL COPIES 23-1

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

**SECRET**

When Felles In.

ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED BLOTTED

PRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

FILE, VR P/AN, EUR 6, FI, Cl, Ci/oPS, C1/1c2

SECRET 152120Z FEB 72 CITE WH/MIANI 13854

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

AKULE TYPIC AMETROPΙΑ

REF MADRID 15657 (IN 53005)

15FEB IN 538389

1. APPRECIATE REF INFO ON ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART. BELIEVE, HOWEVER, THAT YOUR PRIORITY TARGETS RIGHTFULLY TAKE PRECEDENCE OVER THIS RATHER ELUSIVE ONE AND SUGGEST THAT WE STAND DOWN ON ANY EFFORT TO POSITION AMMUG-1 FOR POSSIBLE CONTACT. THIS, UNTIL SUCH TIME THAT RODRIGUEZ IS PCS OR IN A IDY STATUS LONG ENOUGH TO PERMIT AN ORDERLY APPROACH.

2. FYI: AMGAME-1 WHO KNOWS RODRIGUEZ, ASSESSES HIM AS BEING A WORTHWHILE TARGET AND POSSIBLY RECRUITABLE.

3. FILE: 201-665547, 231-816552, 201-749651. GP1.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

14-00000

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, WI/Miami

TYPIC/Fernando Otero Espino (201-824860)

Reference: HEMA 61008, 18 December 1971

1. While AMGANE-1 immediately recognized the photograph of Subject which was forwarded in Reference, AMBARD-1, AWBIN-1 and AMED-1 did not. We will review the photograph with AMARED-1 and advise any positive results.

2. Forwarded herewith is a debriefing report from AMGAME-1 on Subject. If after reviewing this report, Mexico City has any additional requirements for AMGAME-1, we will be glad to service them.

Eustace D. KLOCK

Attachment:
Report, herewith

Distribution:
1 - CCS, Mexico City w/att, herewith
2 - Chief, WED without att

CS COPY INFO in 201-824860

201-891273, 201-808332, UFAA-3771 Typed: 21 January 1972

201-749681, 201-810652

SECRET 201-834680

748651

21 Jan 72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

'CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC
PERSON UNIT NOTIFICO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPI
5-1
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN

SECRET
5
(When Filed In)
6
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
RO
ODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
7
8

AT
Z
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
48
PER
AWH8 FILE VR, PIAN, EURG, C1, Cilops, calice, Fl,
ACTION NO
251

SECRET 1721432 JAN 72 CITE WH/MIAMI 13595 17 JAN IN 515283

OTTAWA INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC SMABOVE

REF A OCUA 16526

B UFAA 3597

1. PRIOR TO FEBRUARY CONFERENCE WE INTEND TO REVIEW
   ALL PHOTOGRAPHS OF PBRUMENS STATIONED CANADA WITH THOSE
   AMSTAFF/AMQUAKE DEFECTORS WHO ARE RESPONSIBILITY OF
   WH/MIAMI. PLEASE FORWARD ANY AVAILABLE COPIES OF I.D.
   PHOTOS FOR INDIVIDUALS LISTED REF B.

2. FYI: VALUE OF SUCH A REVIEW IS UNDERLINED BY
   AMMUG-I'S RECENT RECOGNITION OF JORGE DE LA VEGA
   VIGNON (201-815356) VIA SUCH A PHOTO. UNFORTUNATELY,
   AMMUG-1 WAS UNABLE TO IDENTIFY VEGA AS BEING INTEL.

3. FILE: 201-815356, 201-749651, 19-2-16. GPI.

SECRET

CS (OP) 19-2-6
2

SECRET

FOR CROCS FILME DI
201-74965/

17 Jan 72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

PESUKEH/Fernando Otero Espino (201-824860)

Reference: HMA 41406

AKBRO-1 did not recognize the photograph of Fernando Otero Espino which was forwarded by Reference. The photograph will be shown to ANDAUD-1,
AMADOLED-1, APGAHE-1 and ASCARD-1 at the first opportunity.

Bastace D. KLOOCK

Distribution:

3 - CGS, Mexico City

3 - Chief, EKD

CS (CIA) FILE N 201-824860

201-749651 UFAA-3735

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING IN

201- 749651

Typed: 10 January 1978

201-694089


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, Miami

FORUMEN/Enrique G omez Cartiz (201-777321)

REQUIRED REFERENCES

Reference:
A. HA-11389, 13 December 1971

D. HA-10315, 7 June 1971

1. AUG-1 failed to identify the picture of Enrique G omez Carliz which was forwarded via Reference A.

2. According to paragraph 3 of Reference D, Subject is to be found at the extreme right of the photograph. While it is entirely possible that we are mistaken, the individual at the extreme right of the photograph bears little resemblance to the AMHOAFCAHAN-1 photograph of Subject which was forwarded to us via Reference L.

3. We would appreciate it if you would review the photographs which were forwarded via References A and D and reconfirm that they are indeed of Subject. We are forwarding as attachments copies of the photographs which we received to facilitate this task.

Eustace D. COOCK

Attachments: Photographs, b/w

Distribution:

3-COS/Mexico City, w/atts

37C/MID w/atts b/w

FILE REFERENCE:

01-719551

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UEAM-3734

CLASSIFICATION

7496.5%

DATE

TYPOD: 10 January 1972

HIS FILE NUMBER

201-777321


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

> [Figure] Photo of a man wearing a suit and tie.

> [Figure] Photo of several people sitting at desks.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, Miami

PERUMEN/Nelson Quesada Rivero (201-836379)

REFERENCES: A. HCA-11292, 16 November 1971
B. HCA-1411, 16 December 1971
C. HCA-11353, 13 December 1971

1.  The delay in responding to Reference A's request that a picture of Subject be reviewed with the appropriate assets was due to the fact that prior to the receipt of the Reference B photographs, we lacked a good picture of Subject. We felt that the picture of Subject, #143 in Volume 11 of the Cuban Mugbooks, was something less than satisfactory for the purposes of positive identification.

2.  Immediately upon the receipt of the Reference B photographs, the undersigned reviewed with AUG-1 the one of Nelson Quesada Rivero with negative results. AMGAME-1, however, did recognize the name of Quesada and identified him as being AMSTAFF. Needless to say, we will show ANGAME-1 the photograph of Subject at the earliest opportunity to determine how well he knows him and if warranted, will debrief him in detail on Subject.

3.  The Reference B photograph of Subject will be reviewed with the other AMSTAFF/AQUAKE assets residing in the JMCOBRA area and we will promptly inform you of the results.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Distribution:
3-COS/Mexico City-c/f
3C/WHD

![signature]

201-836379

201-749651
201-816552

UFAA-3732

2 749651

TYPED: 7 January 1972

201-836379


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE: TOTAL COPIES - 2

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEO SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

FILE, VR P/AN, EUR 6, CI/OPS, CI/ICZ, FI, DOP, ADDR

ACTION NO. 259

SECRE I 291300Z NOV Z CITE (MADRID (15141 23 Nov IN 479487

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMETROPIA/AMUG

REF/ MADRID 15135(₩ 478415)

1. AFTER GUTIMID CONVERSATIONS INDIATED AMETROPIA-I

DUE ARRIVE EACH DAY 23-25 NOVEMBER, SUBJECT FINALLY APPEARED

26 NOVEMBER. QUSEQUIN AT AIRPORT DID NOT NOTE ARRIVAL AND

STATION COGNIZANT ONLY THROUGH QUTIMID MONITORING AFTERNOON

27 NOVEMBER. AFTER NEGATIVE QUSEQUIN-37 CHECK OF HOTELS NOR-

MALLY FREQUENTED BY CUBANS, PHONE CALL TO HOTEL CONDE

DUQUE (WHERE CUBANA AIRCREWS STAY) RECEIVED ANSWER THAT

TARGET HAD CHECKED IN 26 AND LEFT 27 NOVEMBER. (AIRLISTS

LATER SHOW TARGET WENT TO HAVANA ON 28 NOVEMBER AND LIAISON

AFTER-ACTION CHECK CONDE DUQUE REVEALS OTHER CUBAN DIP WITH

SAME PATRONYM HAD REGISTERED AND DEPARTED ON DATES SPECIFIED).

2. AMMUG-1 LEAVING FOR NEW YORK BY IBERIA 951 ON 29

NOVEMBER AND ETA MIAMI 1900 HOURS ON EASTERN 027. ADVANCED

$100 (T/A MIAMID TO COVER PURCHASE NEW TICKET SINCE FULL

VALUE RETURN TRIP GOOD ONLY FOR PERIOD LONGER THAN 17 DAYS.

3. TARGET'S EVASIVENESS MAY REFLECT TIGHTENED MEASURES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
IDOUED
SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE. TOTAL COPIES
# SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8

Jan 25 8 28 PM '72

DY:
AT:
Z

DISSEM. DY:
PER:
FORWARDED
#IFVEDIP/EDI
ACTION UNIT
FILE. VR

ACTION NO.

PAGE 2 MADRID 15141 SECRET

FOR AMWHEN DEFECTION. HE DID NOT STAY AT USUAL HOTEL.

QUSEQUIN TRAVEL CONTROL PROCEDURES OBVIOUSLY DEFICIENT.

AMMUG-1 GAVE PROFESSIONAL PERFORMANCE AND

APPEARS MORE EAGER THAN EVERY TO ATTEMPT PITCH.

4. FILE: 201-855547; 201-749651. GP-1.

SECRET

![date January 11 1972]

SECRET

[


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

WH-4-EUR

BY: D
AT: 1830 Z

MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled-In)
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

23

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DOC. MICRO. SER.

JAN 27 1972

DISSEM BY:
ACTION UNIT:
W48
FILE, VR
MICROFILMED
PRECEDENCE
CI/OPS, SECUR Y
ACTION NO:
087

SECRET 261713Z NOV 71 CITE MADRID 15135

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY WH/MIAMI 26 Nov IN 478415

TYPIC AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: DIRECTOR 205 025

1. AMMUG-1 MET WITHOUT HITCH MORNING 25 NOVEMBER.

STILL NO SIGNS OF AMEIROPIA-1. QUTIMID TRAFFIC 25 NOVEMBER SHOWED CONVERSATION BETWEEN JOSE

MARTIZEZ OF COMPANIA EUROPA DE MANUTENCION CONTINUA
AND CACHON IN COMMERCIAL OFFICE WHERE LATTER ADVISES
THAT A/1 DEFINITELY DUE THAT DAY (BUT NO OTHER CALLS
INDICATING HE ACTUALLY ARRIVED). LIAISON WILLING TO
COOPERATE ONLY SO FAR AS PROVIDE TWICE-DAILY CHECK HOTEL
AROSA ROSIER AND ALERT FROM AIRPORT IF A/1 SPOTTED
ARRIVING, BOTH CHANNELLED THROUGH QUSEQUIN/37, BUT NOT
WILLING TO APPROACH MARTINEZ (WHO DOES NOT APPEAR TO
KNOW MORE THAN WHAT IS TOLD BY COMMERCIAL OFFICE ANYWAY).
QUFLUTE-1 HAD ONLY FALSE ALARM TO REPORT BUT NO OTHER
INDICATIONS.

2. STATION KEEPING CLOSE TOUCH WITH AMMUG-1 AND
   TRYING TO DETERMINE A-1 PRESENCE SOONEST.

B201-865547

CS COPY:
SECRET

201-749651
261771


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
1 PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIAL SEEIN BT
SECRET
(When Filled In) GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
1 5
DOWNGRADING AND
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
2 6
DECLASSIFICATION
3 7
4 8

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

BY AT

DISSEM BY PER # A 32 AM '72

ACTION UNIT FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

PAGE 2 MADRID 15:35 SECRET

3. FILE: 201-749651; 201-865547. GPI

SECRET

![stamp of the paper document indicating a level of classification that is higher than 'confidential']


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# SECRET

IBLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
SON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPLES
MUUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

SECRET
GROUP
5

(Wuen Fille In)
INCLASS CAT
6
VANCE COPY
WH
AISSUED
2
SLOTTED
REPAJULCTION OF THIS COPY PROH 31T.D
7
3
8
4

1930
AT
Z

SEM. BY
PER
#:

CTION UNIT
FILE, VR
SECLR 4.
WH8
Eu6.
FPTAN.
ci. calops fr
STION NO.
2651
SECRET 2319082 NOV 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 13192

IMMEDIATE MADRID INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR 23 Nov IN 476216

TYPIC AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: MADRID 15114(W 476162)

0
1. PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION AMMUG-! FCLLOWS: HT:

64", WT: 140, HAIR: BLACK, AGE 34, FACE: THIN AND

SLIGHTLY MARKED.

2. FILE: 201-865547, 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

23 Nov 71
20%-7476SI...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIO

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

FRECEDENCE

FILE. VR IF/AN SOIP FI SEEUR LI CI/ORS FI

SECRET 191502Z NOV 71 CITE MADRID 12690

IMMEDIATE WH/NIAMI INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR LNG N473565

TYPIC AMETROPIA QUT IMID

REF: A. WH/HIAMI 13896(470042)

B. MADRID 15035 (N 469867)

1. ACCORDING TO QUIINID CONVERSATION BETWEEN TWO CUBAN-

OFFICIALS, AMETROPIA-1 LEFT LONDON FOR MONTREAL EARLY MORNING
19 NOVENEER, WILL RE. TO LONDON 21 TOVEMBER AND PLANS TO ARRIVE
ADK ID 23 NOVEMBER. ONWARD TRAVEL PLAND STILL INDEFINITE BUT

MADE INQUIRIES ABOUT 26 NOVEMBER CUBANA FLIGHT TO HAVANA. (NO
HOTEL RESERVATIONS YET MALE BUT WILL ADVISE ASAP WHEN INFORMATION
ABAILABLE.)

2. DEFER TO ADDEE JUDGEMENT WHETHER ANMUG-1 IRIP SHOULD

DE MADE ON BASIS THIS INFORMATION. IF AFFIRMATIVE, STATION WILL

ASSIST ANY WAY POSSIBLE.

3. FILE 201-865547, 221-743601. GP-1.

SF.RET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 22-1
SECRET
(When Filled In.)
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

1
5
2
6
3
26
7
4
8

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM. BY
Z
AT 28 PER
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR /PAX FURG, CHOPS, SECUR 4
WH8

ACTION NO.
784

SECRET 151712Z NOV 71 CITE MADRID/15035 15 Nov IN 469867
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMETROPIA QUTIMID

REF: MADRID 15010(11467099)

1. PHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN SPANISH BUSINESSMAN AND

AMETROPIA-1 IN LONDON INDICATES A-1 DEFINITELY WILL SEE

SPANIARD IN MADRID BUT AFTER WEEK ENDING 20 NOVEMBER. SINCE
CONVERSATION DID NOT MENTION ANY DEADLINES WE HAVE NO TIME FRAME
WHITHIN WHICH AMMUG-1 MIGHT BEST TRAVEL TO MADRID.

2. FILE 201-749651. GP-1.

SECRET 201-865547

> [Figure: DOC. MICRO. SER. stamp with the date JAN 27 1972 MICROFILMED]

B201-865547

CS COPY
SECRET

201-749651/
15 Nov 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

ALBERT J. AMORI:ghd
WI/COG/FT/
7111/1819
11 NOVEMBER 1971

SECRET

WH/MIAMI
TYPIC AMMUG
REF WH/MIAMI 13055 (IN 466569)*

1. HOUSE SUB COMMITTEE FAVORABLY APPROVED BILL FOR
   AMMUG-1 CITIZENSHIP. BILL NOW GOES TO FULL COMMITTEE AND
   LATER TO HOUSE FOR FINAL ACTION.

2. FILE 201-749651. GP-1.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG Comment: REF REQUESTED OUTCOME OF BILL TO GRANT
AMMUG-1 U.S. CITIZENSHIP.


WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD.

LAWRENCE STERNFIELD
C/WH/COG

CS COPY

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
12 NOV 71
COPY NO
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

CASLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CL
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUEO

AT

SSEM DY
PER
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR IP/ON, CI/OPS, SETUR 4
WH 8
ACTION NO
252

IFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 12-
SECRET:
(When Siled in)
GROUP 1
PRECLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY

SECRET 101851Z NOV 71 CITE WH/MIAMI/13055
DIRECTOR
WMIM I: IN466569

TYPIC AMM UG

1. WOULD APPRECIATE OUT COME OF HQS DISCUSSIONS RE
   AMMUG-1 BEING GRANTED U.S. CITIZENSHIP. IF THERE HAVE
   LEEN ANY POSITIVE DEVELOPMENTS STATION WOULD LIKE TO
   PASS THEM ON TO AMEUG-1.

2. FILE: 201-749651. GP1.

SECRET

![an,ar,dn,rs,rn,st]

CS COPY
SECRET

L.
201-74765


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY ☑ ISSUED ☑ SLOTTED

CSDO EUR

DISSEM 43/51

ACTION UNIT WH8

ACTION NO. 766

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE... TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

(When Filled Ini

DOC. MICRO. SER.

DEC 1 7 1971

FILE, VR EURG SECURY DOP

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

PRECEDENCE

SECRET 050842Z NOV 71 CITE MADRID 5 NOV IN 462511

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMETROPIA

REF DIRECTOR 197498

1. AS OF COB 4 NOVEMBER NO INDICATION FROM STATION

SOURCES CONCERNING AMETROPIA-1 RETURN NOR DID HOTEL AROSA (HIS USUAL RESIDENCE) CLAIM TO HAVE RESERVATION IN HIS NAME.

2. FILE: 201-749651, 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

RELAYED TO AIRTECH PER AIR 198194

B-201-865549

SECRET

5 NOV 71

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION IFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 24-1

SECRET

ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN

46
WH FILE VR 10/CN EUR 6, SECUR 4, C/OPS

96

ECR T 031335Z NOV CITE MADRID 14955
RIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO LONDON, DIRECTOR

YPIC ANID TROPIA

F: WH MIAMI 13330 (IN 460684)

3 Nov IN 460684

1. APPRECIATE OFFER ONT STATION CAN HANDLE

2. FILE: 201-865547: 201-749651. CPI

ECRT

CS COPY FILED IN 201-865547

SECRET

![AS]

File Ini
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect 2 on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no below and forward document to RID AN.

FROM:

RID

PAGE ERIAN
IP/AN
EXT. 4239

GI-879
GA50
TUBE GT7

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

| TO           | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| ------------ | ------- | ------------- | ----------------- |
| 1. C/WH/C    |         | 27 OCT 1971   | <signature>       |
| 2. DC/WH/C   |         |               | <signature>       |
| 3. C/WH/C/FF |         | 29            | <signature>       |
| 4. Marshall  | 1       | Inor R        | <signature>       |
| 5. Albright  | 1       | I Riv71KRC    | <signature>       |
| 6. Judy F.   |         |               | <signature>       |
| 7.           |         |               |                   |
| 8.           |         |               |                   |
| 9.           |         |               |                   |
| 10.          |         |               |                   |
| 11.          |         |               |                   |
| 12.          |         |               |                   |
| 13.          |         |               |                   |
| 14.          |         |               |                   |
| 15.          |         |               |                   |
| 16.          |         |               |                   |
| 17. RID/FI   |         |               |                   |


DiLini't so to MADRID

- could you please do
  Access on CRESPO, The Ken

DOC. MICRO. SER.
OCT 27 1971
MICROFILMED


| FILE TITLE | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) |
| ---------- | -------------------------- |
| 201-749651 |                            |


| ABSTRACT |     |
| -------- | --- |
|          |     |
| INDEX    |     |

| DOCUMENT DATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER |
| ------------- | --------------- |
| 12 OCT 71     | UFAA 03472      |

68765


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

*   MARKED FOR INDEXING
*   NO INDEXING REQUIRED
*   ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING
*   MICROFILM

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, WH/Miami

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Cuban officials in Madrid

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

Reference: UFAW-12415

1.  AMMUG-1 did not recognize the photograph of Manuel Ignacio Quesada Santinach (201-027266), which is contained in Volume I of the Cuban Mugbook.

2.  AMMUG-1 recognized two names from the listing of Cuban officials in Spain, which was forwarded by OSMA-27086 of 24 May 1971. They were Ricardo Espino Martinez (201-818437) and Federico Crespo Moreira. AMMUG-1 commented that he had known Espino quite well and that he was in periodic contact with him from April 1961 to May of 1963. AMMUG-1 added that Espino used to be the director of an import house in Cuba, but was unable to recall the name of this firm. AMMUG-1 stated that he had known a Federico Crespo Moreira from his days in the Cuban police. According to AMMUG-1 Crespo worked underneath him from 1959 to January 1961 when both men were transferred to the Army. AMMUG-1 commented that Crespo was given the rank of sergeant. AMMUG-1 last saw Crespo around early 1962. AMMUG-1 added that Crespo was a Caucasian, would be about 32 years of age and that the last time he saw him, Crespo had blondish hair, was about 5'9" tall and weighed about 170 pounds. Station files list Crespo's DOB as being 9 August 1940 which dovetails with AMMUG-1's information.

3.  AMCARD-1 information on the subject, if any, will be forwarded in the immediate future.

> [Figure: DOC. MICRO. SER. OCT 27 1971 MICROFILMED]

Distribution: 3 - Chief, WH

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO: 201-327266 201-818437

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFAA-3472

DATE: 20% 12 1971.

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

Typed: 6 October 1971

NOS FILE NUMBER: 201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOT FED

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES: 24
(When Filled In)

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUEO
SLOTTED

DOC. MICRO. SER.
AUG 1 1971

MICROFILMED

SECRET 2713132 JUL 71 CITE KH7 MIAMI/12082
PRIORITY MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF: MEXICO CITY 17236 (J387237)

1. DUE TO DOCUMENT PROCEDURAL COMPLICATIONS, AMMUG-1
   DID NOT DEPART FOR MEXICO CITY AS PLANNED. IN LIGHT
   OF INFO CONTAINED REF, AMMUG-1 HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED
   REMAIN IN MIAMI.

2. IN ADDITION TO DEBRIEFING OF AMSLOUCH-6 AND
   AMSLOUCH-7, REQUEST THAT KLOOCK TAKE ADVANTAGE OF
   OPPORTUNITY FOR IN DEEPTH FAMILIARIZATION WITH PBRUMEN
   PERSONALITIES, ACTIVITIES AND MODUE OPERANDI IN MEXICO
   CITY.

3. FILE: 201-872345 AND 201-749651. GP-1
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED NESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

DISSEN BY 38
ACTION UNIT
WHB
FILE. VR
ACTION NO
495

SECRET 262019Z JUL 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 17230

WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR
TYPIC
REF: WH/MIAMI 12022

1. EUSTACE D. KLOOCK ARRIVED PER REF.

2. FILE: 201-749651; 201812117 AND 201-872345.

SECRET

BOSCH FERNANDEZ, AURORA
MIRABAL-FERNANDEZ, RAFAEL

RAMIKEZ LOPEZ, VINCENTE
RODRIGUEZ LFHEFT: VLEMIK

GP-1

CS COPY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

SBIFED MESSAGE • TOTAL COPIES 137

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOSTED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

8
FILE. VR RAND SECUR 4 FI, CI/OPS

SECRET 221324Z JUL 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 12035 CWMIM22 JUL IN 384361

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF A DIRECTOR 162399 (NOT SENT MEXICO CITY)

B WH/MIAMI 12022 (W383676)

1. PER PERMISSION GRANTED REF A, EUSTACE D.

KLOOCK WILL TRAVEL MEXICO CITY PER REF B.

2. FILE: 201-749651, 201-812117 AND 201-872345. GPI.

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.

AUG 19 1371

MICROFILMED

CS COPY

SECRET

B 201-812117

B 201-872345

23 JUL 71

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

ORIG: Lawrence Sternfield:bj.
UNIT: C/WH/COG
EXT: 1945
DATE: 21 JULY. 1971
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY 23
PER.
CONFI
4H8 FILE, VR, RIYAN, ESDO, FI C/OPS, SECURY

(classification)
SECRET
(date and time filed)
21 JUL71 [19 362
(elite)
CITE DIRECTOR2399

TO
PRIORITY WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMROSE AMSLOUCH

REF: WH/MIAMI 12022 (IN 383676)

1. RE PARA 1 OF REF PERMISSION GRANTED.

2. FILE: 201-749651; 201-812117; 201-872345.

END OF MESSAGE

> [Figure: DOC. MICRO. SER. AUG 1 0 1971 MICROFILMED stamp]

> [Figure: A hand-written list with numbers 1, 2, 3, 4]

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

B201-812117
RELEASING OFFICER

B2.01-872345

CS EGY
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

LAWRENCE STERNFIELD
C/WH/COG

201-749651
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

> [Figure: GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declasification notice]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
WH
BY: D-1720
DISSEM. BY:
ACTION UNIT
WA8
ACTION NO.
953

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE • TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(Wilen Filled Ir)-
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DOC. MICRO. SER.
AUG 1.1371
MICROFILD

GROUP 1
10.70M AUTOMATIC
CICLASS IFICATION

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

PRECEDENCE

RIAN, JEZUR4, CT/OPS, FE

SECRET 211628Z JUL 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 12022 (SADELLY ACTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY

TYPIC AMROSE AMSLOUCH

REF WH/MIAMI 11983(3800663)

1. FOR DIRECTOR: REQUEST PERMISSION FOR EUSTACE D. KLOOCK TO TRAVEL IN HIS REGISTERED ALIAS TO MEXICO CITY
   ON AMMUG-1/AMSLOUCH-6 OPS. TRAVEL INFO AS FOLLOWS:
   DEPART MIAMI AT 1730 HOURS 25 JULY VIA PAA FLIGHT 552
   WHICH SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE MEXICO CITY AT 2105 HOURS.

2. AMMUG-1 WILL UTILIZE SAME PAA FLIGHT ON 26 JULY
   WHICH SCHEDULED TO ARRIVE AT 1935 HOURS.

3. FOR MEXICO CITY: REQUEST THAT IF POSSIBLE, YOU
   MAKE RESERVATIONS PER ABOVE SCHEDULE FOR KLOOCK IN HIS
   REGISTERED ALIAS AT EITHER HOTEL BRISTOL OR MONTEJO AND
   RESERVATIONS FORAMMUG-I IN HIS TRUE NAME AT THE HOTEL
   MAJESTIC. KLOOCK WILL CONTACT STATION MONDAY MORNING.
   APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT.

4. FILE: 201-749651; 201-812117 AND 201-872345. GPI.

SECRET

CS BX-1

B-201-5122345
B. 201-512117

SECRET

21 fee 71
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ASS FIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
(When rilled in)
GROUP 1
BALL JOYO PRO
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8

ACTION UNIT
WH8 FILE, VR elan selvet clops, Fl
ACTION O
1624

SECRET 162042Z JUL 71 CITE WH/MIAMI (11983
MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR WmIm
TYPIC AMRO SE 16 JUL IN 380663
REF. MEXICO CITY 17155 (11379734)

1. ALL THINGS CONSIDERED, SUGGEST WE SET 26 JULY AS TARGET DATE FOR
   LAMMUG-I'S TRAVEL TO MEXICO CITY AND THAT HE TRAVEL IN TRUE NAME VIA
   FAIRLY DIRECT ROUTE. NO MATTER WHAT TRANSPIRES WITH AMSLOUCH-6, KLOOCK
   WILL BE IN MEXICO CITY 26 JULY TO DIRECT AMMUG-1, IN CONCERT WITH
   MEXICO CITY.

2. FILE: 201-749651, 201-812117. GPΙ.

SECRET

DOC. MICRO. SER.
AUG 4 1971

MICROFILMED

CS COPY

B.201-812117
SECRET
16 Jul H
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CISIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

DOC. MICRO. SER. AUG 10 1971

MICROFILMED

SECRET 101740Z JUL 71 CITE MEXICO CITY

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMROSE

REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 17833 (IN368344)

B. DIRECTOR 155185

C. WH/MIAMI 11878 (IN374346)

D. DIRECTOR 158728

1. REF C ANSWERS TO OUR QUESTIONS SHOW/AMMUG-1 TRIP HERE CANNOT BE GIMMICKED. HE'LL BE MARKED FROM FIRST MOMENT FOR WHAT HE IS. APPARENTLY, THIS IS OF NO PARTICULAR CONCERN TO WH/MAMI OR AMMUG-1 HIMSELF. THIS BEING CASE, DO NOT SEE WHAT WE HAVE TO LOSE BY GOING AHEAD. THERE NOTHING THAT SENSITIVE OTHERWISE IN PROCESS, INCLUDING KDTUCK-18 CASE, WHICH SHOULD BE AFFECTED BY AN AMMUG-1 APPROACH TO KDACOUSTIC-I IN NEAR FUTURE.

2. LETS'S ELABORATE JUST A BIT FURTHER ON OUR QUERY OF PARA 2G, REF A, AND WH/MIAMI COMMENT OF PARA 2G, REF C. IF AMMUG-1 CAN MANEUVER TO SEE KDACOUSTIC-1 UNDER PRIVATE, RELAXED CIRCUM-STANCES (ADMITTEDLY DIFFICULT), WE CERTAINLY HOPE HE'LL GO BEYOND MERELY OFFERING HIMSELF AS CHANNEL FOR DEFECTION. (KDACOUSTIC-1 KNOWN STATION OFFICERS PERSONALLY AND HOW TO REACH THEM.) WE'D

CS 8387

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIPI

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
**SECRET**
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
GROUP.I
1
2
3
4

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
5
6
7
8

DISSEM
ACTION UNIT FILE, VR
ACTION NO.

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 17120 SECRET

LIKE AMMUG-1, AS AN OLD, KNOWLEDGEABLE COLLEAGUE, TO ENGAGE
KDACOUSTIC-1 IN MEANINGFUL IDEOLOGICAL-POLITICAL DISCUSSIONS,
COMPARE NOTES ON MUTUAL ACQUAINTANCES, ELICIT RE PERSONAL
LIFE, GIVE US A BETTER INSIGHT ON AN UNCOMMUNICATIVE TARGET
AND, THUS, A BETTER ASSESSMENT. THIS WOULD BE WORTH THE TRIP,
EVEN IF AMMUG-1 OTHERWISE REJECTED.

3. ASSUME AMMUG-1 READY TO GO WITHIN THIS OF NEXT MONTH.
   COULD AMMUG-1 VISIT BE COMBINED WITH ONE OF HOBBERLIN'S VISITS
   RE KDTUCK-18 (PARTICULARLY IF AMMUG-1 LOOLS LIKE HE MIGHT BE
   HANDLING PROBLEM)?

4, FILES: 201-749651; 201-842117. GP-1

SECRET

![AUG 18 71]

![CY]

![SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

L. Laser
DC/WII/1
7375/9354
DATE: 9 July 1971

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET

WH/MIAMI, MEXICO CITY
TYPIC AMROSE
REF: WH/MIAMI-11878

1. GIVEN STATION WH/MIAMI AND MEXICO CITY ENTHUSIASM FOR

REF OP, HQS CONCURS IN PROPOSAL TO LAY NECESSARY GROUNDWORK FOR
AMMUG-1 AND KDACOUSTIC-1 MEETING. GARDALPHE WILL DISCUSS WITH
STATION ON ARRIVAL.

2. FILE: 201-749651; 201-862117.

END OF MESSAGE

![DOC. MICRO. SER. AUG 10 1971 MICROFILMED]

WH COMMENT: Ref recommended GARDALPHE delayed for
AMMUG-1 trip to Mexico to contact KDACOUSTIC-1.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONUST NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES. 19-
SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
DOWNGRADED AT AUTOMATIC 2
DECLASSISFICATION 3
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED 4

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY.
5
6
7
8

DOC. MICRO. SER.
AUG 10 1971
MICROFILMED

DISSEM BY AT: Z
ACTION UNIT
WH8 FILE, VR, RIAN FI, CI, CI/OPS, SECUR 4
ACTION NO

SECRET 081503Z JUL 71 CITE WH/MIAMI (11878
DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY
TYPIC AMROSE

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 155185
B. MEXICO CITY 17033 (IW 388344)0

1. WHILE WE UNWILLING GO TO THE MAT TO PLACE AMMUG-1
   IN CONTACT WITH KDACOUSTIC-1, THIS IS A CASE WHERE WE HAVE
   A GOOD ACCESS AGENT AND BELIEVE WE WOULD BE REMISS IF WE
   LET THIS OPPORTUNITY TO RECRUIT/DEFECT AN AMSTAFF OFFICER
   PASS US BY. WHILE LIKELIHOOD OF SUCCESS IS PROBABLY QUITE
   SLIM, WE FEEL POTENTIAL REWARD WELL WORTH THE MINIMAL
   EFFORT INVOLVED.

2. FOR MEXICO CITY: FOLLOWING INFO GEARED TO
   QUESTIONS RAISED PARA TWO REF B:
   SUPERVISOR, MARRIOTT IN FLIGHT SERVICES

B. YES.
C. NO
D. MARCH 1964 MEXICO CITY AS CO-WORKERS IN AMSTAFF

SECTION
E. YES

CS COPY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 11878

F. NO, BUT THEN IT IS NOT OUR OBJECTIVE THAT AMMUG-1 OFFER KDACOUSTIC-1 A JOB.

G. BELIEVE WE CAN SAFELY ASSUME THAT IF AMMUG-1 DOES APPROACH KDACOUSTIC-1 THAT THE LATTER WILL ASSUME THAT AMMUG-1 HAS BEEN SENT BY LNFORT/JKLANCE. THIS BEING SO, BELIEVE AMMUG-1'S PRIMARY GOAL IS TO ESTABLISH CONTACT WITH KDACOUSTIC-1 AND ASSURE HIM THAT IF HE EVER DECIDED TO DEFECT FROM PBRUMEN, THAT AMMUG-1 CAN SERVE AS HIS CHANNEL OF COMMUNICATION TO LNFORT. THIS OF COURSE SAME RATIONALE BEING USED IN THE AMBEATNIK-1/AMMEDIA-1. RELATIONSHIP

H. AMMUG-1'S PRIMARY REASON FOR GOING TO MEXICO WILL BE TO CONTACT KDACOUSTIC-1.

I. NO

3. IN VIEW OF MEXICO CITY'S BELIEF THAT KDACOUSTIC-1 WILL RETURN PCS PBRUMEN THIS SUMMER, RECOMMEND WE PRESS FORWARD AND WITH THE NECESSARY GROUNDWORK TO EFFECT MEETING BETWEEN AMMUG-1 AND KDACOUSTIC-1.

4. FILE: 201-749651 AND 201-882117. GP-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

c. Laser.nih
UNT DC/S1/1
7375/9354
DA 23 June 1971
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: 74PER
COF: NFO FILE, VR,

SECRET

TO WH/MIAMI INFO MEXICO CITY

TYPIC AMROSE

REF: WII/MIAMI 11787 (IN 366332)

1. PAST EXPERIENCE WITH APPROACHES UTILIZING CUBAN DEFECTORS
   DOES NOT LEAD US TO BE SANGUINE REGARDING PROPOSED OP AGAINST
   KDACOUSTIC-1, ESPECIALLY USING "ACCIDENTAL ENCOUNTER" PLOY. WHILE
   RISK IN SUCH AN ATTEMPTED APPROACH IS MINIMAL, WE WOULD FAVOR DELAYING
   OP IN HOPES OF DEVELOPING MORE UP-TO-DATE INFO ON THE TARGET'S
   VULNERABILITIES AND POSSIBLE SUSCEPTIBILITY TO RECRUITMENT/DEFECTION.

2. FOR MEXICO CITY: HAS KDTUCK! OR OTHER STATION ACCESS
   AGENTS DEVELOPED ANY SIGNIFICANT INFO ON KDACOUSTIC-1 RECENTLY?

3. FILE: 201-812117, 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

1 Fili in Sect. 2 on back. Detach back flap and ferward to RID.

2 Destroy front cover sheet, unless if records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM:

WEAVER VID.'
RID/AN
EXT. 4239

TO: ACTION BRANCH

if file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID AN.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

| TO       | ROOM NO | DATE    | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| -------- | ------- | ------- | ----------------- |
| C/WH/C   |         | 13 July | M July R          |
| DEVINE   |         |         |                   |
| GEISLER  |         |         |                   |
| AMORI(?) |         | 19 July | Q.                |
| DC/100   |         | 19      |                   |
| Marshall |         | 19 July | R                 |
| Devine   |         | 20/7 m  |                   |
| Amori    |         | 20 July | Q.                |
| BT.      |         |         |                   |
|          |         |         |                   |
|          |         |         |                   |
|          |         |         |                   |
|          |         |         |                   |
|          |         |         |                   |
| RID FI   |         |         | l                 |

> [Figure: DOC. MICRO. SER. JUN 13 1971 MICROFILMED stamp]
> 
> Description: The stamp is a black rectangle with the text DOC. MICRO. SER. on the first line, JUN 13 1971 on the second line, and MICROFILMED on the third line.

3-6: Since

is on active asset,

someone should be

assigned to his(AMC)

Hys CO. There

seems to be some

confusion about who in coc

should take action on

such a case.

6 to 7,8,9: In review of the domestic aspects of this, I thick the c/o should be done here.

| TRACE REQUEST    | ABSTRACT | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) 201-749651                |
| ---------------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| DATE MICROFILMED | INDEX    | DOCUMENT DATE 28 July 71. DOCUMENT NUMBER UFAA 03131 |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# DISPATCH

To: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Info:

From: Chief of Station Miami

Subject: TYPIC/Future Use of AMBIUG-1

Action Required: FYI

1. During JKLANCE's most recent attempt to contact AMETROPIA-1 via AMMUG-1, it became readily apparent that the cover story AMMUG-1 utilized with his immediate superior was unsatisfactory from two points: First, it did not permit us the operational flexibility so necessary in an approach of this sort and secondly, if AMMUG-1 had not returned when he did, his job security would have been jeopardized.

2. To correct the above deficiency, WH/Miami has arranged the following with the Miami Field Office (MFO): In the future, if we again utilize AMMUG-1 to approach a PBRUMEN official, we will ask that the MFO arrange to have one of their representatives from their Headquarters component contact the appropriate senior official of AMMUG-1's company. This senior official will in turn notify AMMUG-l's immediate superior that AMMUG-1 is to be permitted to travel on matters of importance to the Department of Defense.

3. Transmitted under separate cover is a copy of a memorandum we received from the MFO concerning the above arrangements.

![Signature of Eustace D. KLOOCK] Eustace D. KLOOCK

Attachment:
Memo, u/s/c via True Name Pouch

Distribution:
3 - C/WHD w/att u/s/c

![Illegible handwritten annotation]

![Illegible handwritten annotation]

201-865547

UFAA-3131

21 JUNE 1971

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

3 June 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief of Station, WH/Miami

FROM : MFO

ATTENTION : Security Officer

SUBJECT : Ralph HOSEDA

1. Reference your memorandum OS 189-71.

2. Pursuant to your request this office contacted a senior
   official of the Marriott Corporation in Washington, D. C., who
   approved the travel to Europe of a Miami baned Marriott employee
   who is affiliated with WII.

3. The Marriott official, Mr. James MCALLISTER,
   contacted his Miami representative, Mr. halph ICGEDA, and
   advised NOSEDA that your asset was free to travel to Spain on short
   notice.

4. NOSEDA was advised by MCALLISTER that this was a matter
   of interest to the Department of Defense. NOSEDA, to the best of our
   knowledge, has not been approached by anyone else in Miami or Washington
   on this matter since the initial call from MeALLCTER in March.

![signature of REUBEN O. HARVELL]

![DOC. MICRO. SER. JUL 13 1971. MICROFILMED]

CS COPY

S/cate Ito UFAA-3131.

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

SECRET

SECRET 24287 JUN 71 CITE WH/MIAMI (11787)

26 JUN 71 366332

DIRECTOR, MEXICO CITY

TYPIC AMROSE

REF: CS-311/04132-71

1. DURING HIS RECENT TDY TO MEXICO CITY ON THE KDTUCK-16 OFFRATION, WOODROW G. ROBBERLIN DISCUSSED WITH TERENCE D. SISIONE OUR PROPOSAL TO USE AMMUG-1 TO APPROACH KDACOUSTIC-1. AMMUG-1, WHOSE RELATIONSHIP WITH KDACOUSTIC-1 DATES BACK TO 1954, ASSESSES KDACOUSTIC-1 AS ONLY FEIGNING LOYALTY TO THE PREUMEN REGIME AS HE IS BASICALLY AN OPPORTUNIST.

2. WHEN PROVIDED WITH GIST OF INFO CONTAINED REF AND ASKED TO CATEGORIZE KDACOUSTIC-1, AMMUG-1 COMMENTED THAT KDACOUSTIC-1 WOULD HAVE TO BE GROUPED WITH THOSE WHO HAD COME UNDER FIRE FOR BEING SOMETHING LESS THAN RABID REVOLUTIONARIES. WHILE AMMUG'S APPROACH TO KDACOUSTIC-1 WOULD PROBABLY HAVE TO ASSUME THE FORM OF AN "ACCIDENTAL ENCOUNTER" WE ARE WILLING TO ENTERTAIN ANY IDEAS ADDRESSEES MAY HAVE TO DEVISE A LESS CONTRIVED APPROACH TO KDACOUSTIC-1.

3. REQUEST ADDRESSEE COMMENTS ON THE ABOVE PROPOSAL

4. FILE: 201-812117, 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING IN
201-749651
26 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station WH/Miami

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Review of Cuban Mugbooks Volumes II and III with AMMUG-1

Forwarded herewith is a copy of Eustace D. KLOOCK's contact report on his latest meeting with ALLMUG-1. It is requested that all the individuals mentioned in this report be indexed.

![Signature of Eustace D. KLOOCK]

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Attachment: Contact Report

Distribution: 3-C/WHD, w/att, h/w

> [Figure: DOC. MICRO. SER. stamp]
> The stamp indicates the document was microfilmed on JUN 7, 1971

|                            |                 |
| -------------------------- | --------------- |
| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | DATE            |
| UFAA-3054                  | 21 MAY 1971     |
| CLASSIFICATION             | HQS FILE NUMBER |
|                            | 201-749651      |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

CONTACT REPORT

AGENT AMMUG-1 PLACE: AMMUG-1's home

CASE OFFICER: Eustace D. KLOOCK DATE: 1630-1700, 19 May 1971

FUNDS PASSED: None

1. At the time and place indicated above, I reviewed with AMMUG-1 Volumes II and III of the Cuban Mugbook, with the following results:

Volume II

Armando U. Estrada Fernandez ((201-809440) Photo #39

AMMUG-1 correctly identified the pseudo of Estrada as being "ULISES". AMMUG-1 added that he had last spoken with Estrada in February of 1964.

German Miguel Ramos Photo #42

AMMUG-1's only comment was that he wasn't sure if Ramos was his correct name.

Roque Dalton Garcia ((201-215097)) Photo #118

AMMUG-1 commented that he had spoken with Dalton in September of 1964

Manuel Carbonell Duque ((201-739084)) Photo #159

AMMUG-1 commented that he knew Carbonell from circa 1960, when Carbonell was a captain in the police.

Volume III

AMMUG-1 did not recognize any of the photographs contained in Volume III of the Cuban Mugbook.

2. AMMUG-1 was also shown the photograph of Luis Martinez Menocal (201-769095) which was forwarded in UFAW-1118 of 7 May 1971. While AMMUG-1 thought the face familiar, he was unable to identity the photograph.

3. In addition to the above, AMMUG-1 was also shown the photographs of the following individuals with negative results: Jorge Solis Garcia (201-838320) and Sergio Colon Valdes (201-754447)

Eustace D. KLOOCK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, WE/Miami

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Review of Cuban Mugbooks Volumes II and III with AMMUG-1

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

Forwarded herewith is a copy of Eustace D. KLOOCK's contact report on his latest meeting with AHMUG-1. It is requested that all the individuals mentioned in this report be indexed.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

Attachment: Contact Report

Distribution:
3-C/EHD, w/att, h/w

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: U7AA-3054

DATE: 21 MAY 1971

201-749631


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

# DISPATCH SECRET

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Wil/wim

SUBJECT: TYPIC Visit of U.S. Immigration Official to AMMUG-1

ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI only.

1. During the undersigned's most recent meeting with AMMUG-1, the agent stated that a Mr. Rex M. Griffin, an investigator of the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) had visited him on 13 April 1971. According to AMMUG-1, the purpose of Griffin's visit was to inquire into AMMUG-1's present welfare and to determine his relationship to Mr. Rodino. (COMMENT: Mr. Rodino is the sponsor of H.R. #2076 which will expedite AMMUG-1's application for U.S. citizenship by waiving the standard waiting period.) When asked about his relationship with Mr. Rodino, AMMUG-1 simply explained that Mr. Rodino was a friend of his from Washington.

2. Griffin explained that the reason that he wanted to talk to AMMUG-1 personally, was the fact that nearly all of the information surrounding AMMUG-1 was held in INSS office in Washington. He added that the information that was held by the Miami office was closely held and access to the files was severely restricted. During his visit, Griffin asked AMMUG-1 if he noticed any unusual interest in his comings and goings, to which AMMUG-1 replied negatively.

3. In view of above, believe it reasonable to assume that Griffin suspects that JKLANCE is somehow involved with AMMUG-1. This position is concurred in by Station Officer who maintains liaison with the Miami office of the INS.

4. AMMUG-1 characterized Mr. Griffin's visit as being very pleasant and commented that he was "muy amable". In sum, there does not appear to be any need for intervention on AMMUG-1's behalf or on that of the Station. If the need does arise, we will promptly inform Headquarters.

Eustace D. KLOOCK

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - C/WHD

---

UFAA - 2951

SECRET

Typed: 19 April 1971

201 - 749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO.

FROM
Chief of Station, WI/Miami

SUBJECT
TYPIC/DGI-DSE Officials Known to AMMUG-1

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION

PROCESSING ACTION

XXXX MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Forwarded herewith is a contact report prepared by Eustace D. KLOOCK on his most recent meeting with AMMUG-1. During this meeting, Volume I of the Cuban Hugbook was reviewed with AMMUG-1. The individuals AMMUG-1 was able to identify are listed in paragraph 2 of the attached contact report. It is requested that all the names be indexed.

Attachment:
Contact Report

Distribution:
3-C/WHD, w/att, h/w

![signature of Eustace D. KLOOCK]
Eustace D. KLOOCK

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE

1.  19-5-30

UZAA-2925

13 April 1971

2.  19-5-42
    HOS FILE NUMBER
    201-805801
    201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

# SECRET

9 April 1971

CONTACT REPORT

AGENT: AMMUG-1

CASE OFFICER: Eustace D. KLOOCK

PLACE: AMMUG-1's home

DATE/TIME: 6 April 1971, 1530-1800

1.  On 6 April 1971 I reviewed with AMMUG-1, Volume I of the Cuban mugbooks. He identified the individuals listed in para 2 below. Un less otherwise noted, the following general comments apply to all: That he knew them quite well and the last time he saw them was 1963-1964, usually in Mexico.

2.  Arsenio FRANCO Villanueva (201-346425). According to AMMUG-1, FRANCO is G-2, and is one of the individuals he approached (at our behest) during the Pan American games which were held in Puerto Rico in 1966. He commented that FRANCO dismissed AMMUG-l's initial approach out of hand stating that he was a Marxist-Leninist. According to AMMUG-1, while a follow up was supposed to be made in Caguas, Puerto Rico, the staff officer who was accompanying AMMUG-1 decided against it.

Jorge E. GARCIA-BANGO Dirube (201-736492). AMMUG-1 commented that GARCIA-BANGO was the other individual that he tried to approach during the Pan American games. Like. FRANCO above, while a follow up was planned for Caguas, Puerto Rico, the staff officer accompanying AMMUG-l decided against it.

Eclio LOBAINA Lobaina. AMMUG-1 commented that he did not know LOBAINA very well. He added that he used to be AMMUG-1's instructor in firearms at the Police Academy.



SECRET

CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

SECRET

- 2 -

## 120 201

Rolando PASTOR Rodriguez
Armando PASTOR Rodriguez (201-300074). AMMUG-1 last saw PASTOR about 1962 when he was attached to the Administrative Department of the Police Department.

Ramon Cesar CUENCA Montato (201-328945), AMMUG-1 identified CUANCA as being DGI.

Rafael PAEZ Perez
Rodolfo PAEZ (201-334244) - possibly identifiable with AMMUG-1

Fernando RAVELO Renedo (201-765244). AMMUG-1 correctly identified "RAVELO" pseudo as being "FERMIN"

Manuel VEGA Perez (201-334253). According to AMMUG-1, in 1963, VEGA was the DGI desk officer for Nicaragua.

Joseph Parker MORRAY (201-345787)

Ramon SINOBAS Casado (201-334249). AMMUG-1 said that he knew SINOBAS fairly well.

Carlos Sixto CHAIN Soler (201-349576)

Juan Guido LICEA Figueredo (201-876266). AMMUG-1 identified LICEA as being a diplomatic courier commenting that he only knows him casually as they used to take the same plane from Cuba to Mexico

Augustin YASSELLS Gonzalez (201-345986). AMMUG-1 identified YASSELLS as a diplomatic courier commenting that he only knows him casually as they used to take the same plane from Cuba to Mexico.

Mario OIZ Falgueria (201-737654).

Jose Raul VIERA Linares (201-328953). AMMUG-1 said that his DGI pseudo was "Gomez", and that he was stationed in Bolivia from 1962-1963,

Felipe LLAUDI Hernandez (201-742052). AMMUG-1 commented that LLAUDI's DGI pseudo was "ROBANE".

Oswaldo RELOBA Penechet (201-737138)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

- 3 -

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665). AMMUG-1 commented that he knew RODRIGUEZ quite well and when RODRIGUEZ was in Mexico he used to handle HYSAGE-1.

Julian NOVAS Fernandez (201-747936)

Guillermo ARASTAGUIA Fundora. AMMUG-1 commented that ARASTAGUIA was a TSD technician and that his DGI pseudo was "RENE".

Pedro FARINAS Diaz (201-728234). AMMUG-1 commented that FARINAS' DGI pseudo was "OTONIEL".

Elpidio INTERIAN Comezanes (201-745393) AMMUG-1 correctly identified INTERIAN as being a DGI code clerk. CO Comment: INTERIAN is presently stationed in Santiago, Chile.

Jose LAIN Martin Gonzalez (201-750250). AMMUG-1 commented that he knew LAIN quite well and that in 1963, LAIN used to be stationed in the Cuban Consulate in Merida.

Jose Benigno MEDINA Plasencia (201-756652)). AMMUG-1 identified MEDINA as being a TSD technician and an expert photographer.

Andres Nicolas AROMA Ramos. AMMUG-1 commented that his DGI pseudo was "ERNESTO".

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296). According to AMMUG-1, RUIZ was in Mexico in 1964 where he was in contact with Noel GUERRERO, a member of the Nicaraguan FSLN.

Jose Miguel FERNANDEZ Roa (201-730852)

Guillermo SALGADO Alvarez (201-331825) AMMUG-1 correctly identified him as a diplomatic courier.

Angel TATO Ramirez (201-351544)

Teudys TRUTIE-Matilla (201-733681) AMMUG-1 identified him as a TSD technician,

Angel PIFERRER

Santiago PEREZ

Orlando PRENDEZ Gutierrez (201-330002)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

SEGRET

-4-

Luis Norberto HERNANDEZ Curbelo (201-758151). AMMUG-1 commented that HERNANDEZ had been a friend since 1950. He added that HERNANDEZ, along with Saul GONZALEZ (201-756664) were the ones who recruited him for the DGI.

Rogelio MONTENEGRO Guasp (201-747803)

Chafels Homero SAKER Zenni (201-335014)

AMMUG-1.commented that the name listed for the picture, Manuel RODRIGUEZ, Gonzalez, was incorrect. His real name is Gines Silvio GORRIZ Castroman (201-761475) (CO Comment: RODRIGUEZ is an alias used by GORRIZ.)

Jose L. POSADAS Torres (201-334245)

Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez (201-334253)

SECRET

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

INFO.
FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT
TYPIC/Cuban Mughook

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

REFERENCE: UFAA-2768, 1 March 1971

1. Your request to show the Cuban Mugbooks, Volumes I and II,
   to AMCARD-1 and AMMUG-1 is approved.

2. Per Reference, paragraph 2, Headquarters will forward
   such photographs of Cuban officials to WH/Miami.

3. We are planning a slight change in the new Cuban Mug-
   book (Volume III). This Mugbook will be distributed earlier (i.e.,
   after 100 photos have been collected rather than after 500 as was
   the case with Volume II) and in looseleaf binders. As new sections
   of the Volume III are compiled, probably in groups of 100 photos,
   they will be sent to the Stations concerned to be added to Volume
   III. Incidentally, as a result of your comment on the most recent
   Mugbook, we are sending an alphabetical listing for Volume II to
   the Stations which received this Mugbook.

Thornton V. CARUANA

Distribution:
3 - COS, WH/Miami


> [Figure: "CS COPY" stamp]


CROSS REFERENCE TO
B-201-831373

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFAW-1070

DATE
19 MAR 1971

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

HOS FILE NUMBER
201-749651

OFFICE
WH/COG/OPS

OFFICER
W.J. Devine : pae

ORIGINATING
TYPIST
EXT.
5061

OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME



OFFICE SYMBOL
AC/WH/COG
DATE
RELEASING
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE



(16 March 1971)

Distribution:

1 - WH/COG/CHRONO

1 - WH/COG/OPS

1 - Originator

1 - RID/D&P


FORM
1-63
53


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

SECRET 012129Z MAR 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 105SS (SADELLY ACTING)
CRITY MADRID, LONDON INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC ANETROPIA

REF A MADRID 3167(275331)
B MADRID 3151 (NOT SENT LONDON)
C MADRID 2716 (NOT SENT LONDON)

1. APPRECIATE REFS. WH/MIAMI STILL KEENLY
   INTERESTED IN POSITIONING ANNUG-1 FOR POSSIBLE
   CONTACT WITH AMETROPIA-1.

2. LONDON: REF E REFORTED THAT
   QUTINID REPORT OF 26 FEBRUARY INDICATES
   THAT AMETROPIA-1 EXPECTS TO COME TC MADRID "WITHIN
   FEW DAYS" AND THAT HE WAS STAYING IN LONDON AT
   HOME
   OFI EUGENIO GONZALEZ! WHAMIANI BELIEVES
   THAT GONZALEZ IS POSSIBLY IDENTIFIABLE WITH EUGENIO
   GONZALEZ ALVAREZ. STATION HAS FOLLOWING
   TRACES ON GONZALEZ WHICH MAY BE PASSED TO JAGUAR:

A. GONZALEZ'S NAME WAS INCLUDED IN A LIST
IDENTIFYING COMMUNISTS/INFORMERS WHO WERE ENPLOYEES
AT THE U.S. ROYAL TIRE CO. IN HAVANA (ANFAST-13

![SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

SECRET

MAR. 2 10:26 AM '71
FORWARDED
RTD/AN

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 12595 SECRET

REPORT OF 28 NOV 1965) AND

B. DPOB: CIRCA 1915, CAMAGUEY. EARLY MEMBER OF THE MILITIA AND A SUPPORTER OF THE CUBAN REVOLUTION. (UFCA 3725, 5 APRIL 1962)

STATION HAS FOLLOWING TRACES ON A EUGENIO GONZALEZ WHO IS BELIEVED TO BE IDENTIFIABLE WITH EUGNIO GONZALEZ ALVAREZ:

(A) CHIEF SUBSECTION1-2/SPECIAL STEESL/CF CUBAMETALS (UFG 5352, 15 JUNE 1964); (B) AKA "LA MOSCA" HEAD OF PAYMENT, SUB-SECTION OF THE GENERAL CONTROL SECTION OF THE CONSOLIDATED PETROLEUM ENTERPRISE (ECP) OF THE MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIES (MININD) (MA-4434, 12 JAN 1967) AND (C) ASSISTANT MANAGER OF CUBAMETALS, HAVANA (SP/1/T1C/R215-67). PER REF C, GONZALEZ ARRIVED MADRID FROM CUBA ON 16 DEC 1972 IN COMPANY WITH AMETROPIA-I. HE UTILIZED PP EF 67128.

3. REQUEST YOU CHECK WITH JAGUAR TO IFY AND DETERMINE GONCALEZ'S LONDON RESIDENCE AND/OR AMETROPIA-I'S TRAVEL PLANS.

FILE: 221-565647 AND 221-456517 ΕΡΙ.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

# DISPATCH

TO:

Chie, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO.

FROM:

Acting Chief of Staff WH/Miami

SUBJECT:

CYLIC/Cuban Mugbook

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1.  Request permission to show AMCARD-1 and AMMUG-1 Cuban mugbooks, Volume I and II.

2.  We have noted that on a number of occasions in the past, photographs of Cuban officials which have been obtained by our various Stations abroad, are generally sent only to Headquarters. We request that when Headquarters does receive such photographs that WH/Miami be provided with a copy. It should be borne in mind that barring over-riding security considerations, it is our intention to show such photographs to AMCARD-1 and AMMUG-1 for possible identification.

Distribution:

3 - Chief, WHD

Eustace D. KLOOCK

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

P201-831373

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFAA-2765

DATE

Typed: 26 February 1971

CLASSIFICATION

HOS FILE NUMBER

1-201-749651

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

S-E-C-R-E-T

| X-REF.      | SYM NUMBER | DOC. DATE | CLASSIFICATION | DATE     | X-REF. SHEET |
| ----------- | ---------- | --------- | -------------- | -------- | ------------ |
| 201-0749651 | 4-17543    | 26 FFB 73 | 201-046554     | 18/04/73 |              |

THE ABOVE DOCUMENT (S) IS CROSS REFERENCED TO THE 201 FILE CITED UNDER LEFT MARGIN.





26 Feb 71

201-749651

S-E-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

BERNICE TURDEVILLE': ak
WH/COG/OPS
7144 R. 1819
1 FEBRUARY 1971

MESSAGE FORM
TO. AL CUPIES:
SCPET

E SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
3

*ING AND/OR INITIAL'S SEEN BY

SECRET 02 22. 222 Γε8 71 CITE DIRECTOR 107366

MADRID INFO: WH/MIAMI

RIBAT AMMUG AMETROPIA
REF: MADRID 2964 (IN 256284)

1. CONCUR. PLS SUPPLY TRAVEL DETAILS 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE AS
   REQUIRED BY LNYUMA.

2. FILE: 201-865547 AND 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

![photo of stamp] MAR 51971

![photo of writing on document] 201-74965/
27cb.71

JOHN SHERWOOD AC/WH/COG WILLIAM VBROE
EUR/COPS EUR/IB C/WHB

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER
2 FC671


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

# EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 2.

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

**SECRET**
(When Filled in)

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ACTION.UNIT

FILE, VR *drian deurs da dFIZ*

SECRET C21731Z FEB 71 CITE MADRID 2971

WH/MICCIUNFO DIRECTOR

*AMETROPIA ANNUG*

REF: A. LONDON 7630 (n 256355)

3. WH/MIAMI 0234 (n 206343)

1. *AMMUG-1* SCHEDULED LEAVE MADRID FOR NEW YORK ON

3 FEBRUARY VIA IBERIA FLT 951. ONWARD FLIGHT NEW YORK TO

MIANI 3 FEBRUARY VIA EASTERN AIRLINES FLT 25.

2. STATION PROVIED AMMUG-1 WITH 150 U.S. DOLLARS ON

2 FEBRUARY WHICH HE WILL ACCOUNT FOR IN MIAMI.

3. FILE 201-355647, 201-749551. GP-1

SECRET

![stamp]

MICROFILMED
MAR 5 1971

DOC. MICRO. SER.

CS COPY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES 22

ROUTING AND INITIALS SEEN DI

![initials of person]

FEB 1 2471

C/WH 8 FILE, VR CIRILAN. C/EURS, D/SECUR 4. CICI

SECRET 011752Z FEB 71 CITE MADRID 2964

*   PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR, LONDON, STOCKHOLM
*   RYBAT ANNUG AMETROPIA
*   REF: WH/MIAMI 0228 (~ 256017)

11FEB 250264

1.  IN VIEW COMPLETE ABSENCE INDICATIONS AT STATION OF

AMETROPIA-1 TRAVEL, UNLESS OTHER STATIONS CAN PROVIDE

CONCRETE TARGET ETA MADRID WITHIN NEXT 24 HOURS EELIEVE

AMHUG-1 SHOULD RETRUN HOME 3 FEBRUARY.

2.  FILE 201-865547; 231-749651. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET 1FEB71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN O

SECRET
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED NOTICED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

WH
A 1955

DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
9 PER Ref Rubnt
C/WH8 FILE, VR CRIAN, C/EURS, D/SECUR4 C/CI
9035

SECRET 3191332 FEB 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 6254 (SADELLY ACTING)

PRIORITY MADRID INFO PRIORITY LONDON, DIRECTOR, STOCKHOLM

PSRUMEN AMMUC AMETROPIA
TR EF: 256343
REF: MADRID 2964 (N 256264)

1. CONCUR PLAN OUTLINED REF.

2. FILE: 201-565547: 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET
/ Feb 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

LE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSURD LOTTED

FEB 12 71

FILE, VR c/31/1N C/EURS, D/SECUR 4 c/c1

SECRET 011413Z FEB 71 CITE WIW/MIAMI 6223 (SADELLY ACTING)

PRIORITY MADRID INFO DIRECTOR, LONDON, STOCKHOLM 1 FEB 256017

RYBAT AMMUG AMETROPIA

1. AMMUG-1'S WIFE SAID 31 JANUARY THAT AMMUG-1'S EMPLOYERS CALLED HER ON 27 JANUARY TO INQUIRE WHEN AMMUG-1 WOULD RETURN TO WORK. AS AMMUG-1 HAD TOLD HIS EMPLOYERS THAT HE HAD TO VISIT A SICK RELATIVE IN NEW YORK, SHE REPLIED THAT THE RELATIVE'S CONDITION WAS STILL GRAVE AND THAT SHE DID NOT KNOW JUST WHEN AMMUG-1 WOULD RETURN TO WORK.

2. FOR MADRID: WE ARE RELUCTANT TO WITHDRAW AMMUG-1 AT THIS POINT. HOWEVER, WE DO NOT WANT TO JEOPARDIZE AMMUS-1'S JOB SECURITY WHICH COULD IN TURN ADVERSELY AFFECT HIS ROLE FUTURE OPS. WE BELIEVE, THEREFORE, WE SHOULD SET A CUTOFF DATE ON AMMUG-1'S PRESENT TDY IF AMETROPIA-1 REMAINS UNLOCATED. APPRECIATE YOUR THOUGHTS THIS MATTER.

3. FILE: 201-865547; 221-749651. GPI.

SECRET

SECRET 1 FEB 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
**SECRET**
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

TOTAL COPIES 2

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY.

SECRET 01176OZ FEB 71 CITE LONDON 7830

MADRID INFO WH/MIAMI STOCKHOLM DIRECTOR

RYBAT AMMUG AMETROPIA

REF: WH/MIAMI 6228(N 256017)

1. AS POSSIBLE INPUT TO HELP ANSWER REF, JAGUAR
   CONTINUE TO REPORT AS OF 1600 HOURS LOCAL, THEY HAVE NO
   INFO TO SHOW AMETROPIA/1 HAS LEFT U.K.

2. FILE: 201-365547; 201-749651.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

CABLE SECRET-IGIAL DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

FILE. VR. C/RI/AN, C/EURS, C/FI 2, C/CI

SECRET 281502Z JAN 17 CITE LONDON 7711
PRIORITY MADRID INFO STOCKHOLM WH/MIAMI DIRECTOR
RYBAT AMETROPIA AMMUG
REF MADRID 2915(12 251891)
23 JAN 253864

1. OVER LAST SEVERAL DAYS ON ZASIS AMMUG/I ARRIVAL MADRID, STATION HAS PUT CONSIDERABLE PRESSURE ON JAGUYR TO PROVIDE MORE TIMELY INFO ON ARRIVAL/DEPARTURE OF WATCHLISTED CUBANS AND HAVE CITED AMETROPIA/I AS A CASE OF CONSIDERABLE IMPORTANCE TO JKLANCE.

2. AS OF 1500 HOURS LOCAL, JAGUAR MAINTAINED THERE NO RECORD AMETROPIA/I HAS LEFT U.K. JAGUAR HAS ALERTED BAIRN TRANSCRIBERS AND HAS PROMISED TO REPORT TO STATION ASAP ANY INFO ON FUTURE PLANS FOR PRESENT WHEREABOUTS AMMUG/I. AMETROPIA

3. AS MADRID KNOWS, BEA ON STRIKE AND IT POSSIBLE AMMUGA ONWARD TRAVEL DELAYED.

4. FILE 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 2

SECRET

(When Filled In)

GROUP 1

SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

FILE, VR ODON, C/ELAS CKI, C/E12-D/SECUA4

SECRET 271523Z JAN 71 CITE STOCKHOLM 1369 27 JUN 253082

PRIORITY MADRID INFO WA/MIAMI DIRECTOR LONDON

RYBAT AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: MADRID 2915 (~251591)

1. TELEPHONE CALL MADE TO COMMERCIAL

OFFICE. SUBJECT WAS ASKED FOR IN FULL NAME BUT RESPONSE WAS

"RODRIQUEZ" NO HERE. NO OTHER DETAILS
WERE OBTAINABLE.

2. NOTE CUBAN COMMERCIAL CONSEILLER NAME ALDO RODRIGUEZ CAMPS.

3. FILE: 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

27 Jan 71

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 24-1

ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN

C4448 FILE: NR C/RIHN, CLEVRS, C/CT, C/FID

300 AISECUR-4

SECRET 2500512 JAN 71 CITE MADRID 2915

PRIORITY LONDON, STOCKHOLM INFO WH/MIAMI, DIRECTOR

NYBAT AMETROPIA AMWUG

REF: A. WH/MIAMI 2114 (IN 248101)

B. MADRID 2317 (IN 242980)

25 JAN 251891

1. COULD APPRECIATE ATTEMPT BY ACTION ADDEES CONFIRM OR DENY PRESENCE AMETROPIA-1 LONDON OR STOCKHOLM THROUGH PRETENT PHONE CALL(S) COMMERCIAL OFFICE. AMWUG-1 NOW MADRID AND STATION HAS NO INFO AVAILABLE AS OF MORNING 26 JANUARY FR WHEREABOUTS AMETROPIA-1. PLEASE ADVISE.

2. FILE 201-365547. GP-1

SECRET

26 Jan 71

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 30-1

JAN 23 7 23 PM '71

Marshall

Tubinlli

FILE, VR/CORIAN, 4/EURS/5, 4/CI, 4/FI2

SECRET 231035Z JAN 71 CITE MADRID 2898

WH/MIANI INFO DIRECTOR

RYBAT AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: MADRID 2881 (IN 248307)

1. AMMUG-1 MADE CONTACT WITH STATION MORNING 23 JANUARY

PER REF.

2. FILE: 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

23 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES -/-1

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED AOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM BY 9 PER

ACTION UNIT

WHS

FILE, VR RI/AN, EURG, FI CI, CIOPS

SECRET 221603Z JAN 71 CITE STOCKHOLM 1375

PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO PRIORITY MADRID, ROUTINE DIRECTOR,

LONDON.

22 Jan 246898

REF: WH/MIAMI 0037 (246530)

1. RE REF REQUEST LIAISON REPORTS AS OF 22 JANUARY 71 THEY HAVE NO RECORD OF ANYONE BY NAME OF SUBJ REF:
   ENTERING SWEDEN. HOWEVER, NOTE IT POSSIBLE FOR PERSON
   TO ENTER SWEDEN WITHOUT IT BEING RECORDED BY AUTHORITIES
   PARTICULARLY IF HE COMES SWEDEN VIA OTHER SCANDINAVIAN
   COUNTRY IN WHICH CASE CONTROLS ON ENTERING SWEDEN ARE
   LIMITED OR NON EXISTENT.

2. FILE: 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

22 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

WH 03

SLOTTED

1815

FILE, VR Cleilan, Cleves, C/cl, C/e12, DDP, ADDP

LASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES

GROUP 1

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

JAN 21 1 36 PM 71

ACTION COPY

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SCENE

TURBEVILLE

SECRET 2113002-JAN 71 CITE MADRID 2885

IMMEDIATE WH/MIAMI INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR

RYZAT TYPIC AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: WH/MIAMI-0137 (C-249149)

21 JANE 245203

1. AM30-1 HAS RESERVATION AT HOTEL PLAZA, LOCATED
   PARQUE ESPANA 2.

2. FILE 201-865547, 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

21 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

FORM 3072
10.AD
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES (22) 3
MFG 8.7.

SECRET
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

JAN 21 102 PM 71

ACTION COPY

FILE, VR C/R/LAW. deens, ckc/fc, DOP, ADP TURBEVILLE

SECRET 211643Z JAN 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 0133 21 JAN: 24E150
IMMEDIATE MADRID INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

RYBAT PORUMEN AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: WH/MIAMI 0137/(in 249149)

IDENTITY: HECTOR RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART

CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO EAST GERMANY GP-1

SECRET

21 Jun 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

PIG: BERNICE TURBEVILLE;pfd

NIT: WII/COG/OPS

ATE: 21 JAN 1971

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPICS:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

36 PER

CONF: C/HE FILE. VR. C/BI/AN, C/EUR/S, C/CI, C/F12, DDP, ADDP, CS/OO D/SECURY,

(classification) (date and time filed)

(olite) (reference number) [place]

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR 704225 7

TO PRIORITY WH/MIAMI, MADRID

RYBAT PBRUMEN AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF: WH/MIAMI 0137 (IN 249149)

1. AGREE WITH REF OPS PLANNING.

2. FILE 201-865547 AND 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAM V. BROE
G/WHD

JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/EUR/COPS

EUR/IB Wsorrels

WESLEY L. LAYBOURNE
AC/WII/COG

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

COPY NC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

21 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

## SECRET 211643Z JAN 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 0137

IMMEDIATE MADRID INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

RYBAT PBRUNEN AMETROPIA AMMUG

REF A MADRID 2551 (~248307)

B DIRECTOR 103557

1. WHILE THE OPERATIONAL CLIMATE/SITUATION WILL

WEIGH HEAVILY IN YOUR FINAL DECISION AS JUST HOW AMMUG-1

WILL APPROACH AMETROPIA-1, WE FORWARD THE FOLLOWING

POINTS FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION: (A) AMMUG-1'S RELATIONSHIP WITH AMETROPIA-1 AS A FRIEND/CONFIDANT

**AMETROPIA-1:**

: DATES BACK TO THEIR CHILDHOOD. WHILE AMMUG-1 ALSO

KNEW AMETROPIA-1'S BROTHER, IDENTITY, HE WAS CLOSER TO AMETROPIA-1: (B) THIS CLOSE RELATIONSHIP STILL EXISTED

WHEN AMMUG-1 LAST SAW AMETROPIA-1 IN 1963; (C) AMMUG-1 STILL FIRMLY BELIEVES THAT AMETROPIA-! WILL TALK TO HIM

IF THE OPPORTUNITY PRESENTS ITSELF; (D) AMMUG-1 DOES NOT BELIEVE THAT AMETROPIA-1 IS A LOYAL SUPPORTER OF THE

ANTHUG-1 REGIME; (E) ACCORDING TO AMMUG-1, THE ONLY THING AMETROPIA-1 WANTED IN LIFE WAS THE OPPORTUNITY

TO COME TO WOCOKK; (F) THAT TO HAVE AMMUG-1 PHONE..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

FORM 3020
10-68
USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

CAELE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEM 3

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROFICO

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 0137 SECRET

AMETROPIA-1, WHERE AMETROPIA-1 WOULD HAVE THE CHANCE TO REFUSE CONTACT, IS PROBABLY THE LEAST DESIRABLE APPROACH. AMMUG-I'S ASSESSMENT OF COURSE IS BASED ON OBSERVATIONS NOW EIGHT YEARS OLD.

2. WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT AMETROPIA-1 SHOULD BE BURDENED WITH ANH CLANDESTINE COMMO AT THIS POINT, FER TO MADRID TO SUPPLY AN ACCOMMODATION ADDRESS OR OPS PHONE NUMBER AS APPROPRIATE IF OP DEVELOPS SUCCESSFULLY.

WE EXPECT THAT IF AMETROPIA-1 ACCEPTS THE PITCH, HE WILL ASK JUST WHAT HE WILL GET IN RETURN AND PROBABLY HIS CHANCES FOR RESETTLEMENT IN WOCORK.

WE DO NOT BELIEVE THAT ANY COMMITMENT RESETTLEMENT IN WOCORK CAN OR SHOULD BE MADE AT THIS TIME. RATHER THAT HE BE TOLD THAT POSSIBILITY FOR RESETTLEMENT IN WOCORK WILL DEPEND ENTIRELY ON THE EXTENT OF HIS COOPERATION WITH JKLANCE. IF THE QUESTION OF MONETARY RECOMPENSE IS RAISED AMMUG-1 SHOULD INDICAE SALARY (WE ARE THINKING IN THE RANGE (300 TO $500) WILL SE IUT IN AN ESCROW ACCOUNT.

3. WH/MIANI WILL INFORM AMMUG-1 THAT THE GUIDANCE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

PAGE 3 WH/MIAMI 0137 SECRET

FOR THIS OPERATION WILL BE PROVIDED BY STATION MADRID.

FOR MADRID: AMMUG-1 WILL DEPART MIAMI ON EASTERN FLIGHT 20, 1403 LOCAL ON 22 JANUARY FOR NEW YORK. HE WILL DEPART NEW YORK AT 1903 LOCAL ON ISERIA FLIGHT S52 SAME DAY AND WILL ARRIVE MADRID 0730, 23 JANUARY. DOES STATION MADRID HAVE OPS PREFERENCE FOR AMMUG-1 HOTEL ACCOMMODATIONS IN MADRID?

4. FORWARDING SEPARATELY REQUIREMENTS FOR USE WITH AMETROPIA-1.

5. FILE: 201-855547; 201-749551. GP1.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

FORM 12:10
USE PREVIOUS
LOITIONS
"CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
ROUTING AND INITIALS
CLAN. EURE.  .clops alez fi. Sicurt
710
SECRET 231322Z JAN 71 CITE PARIS 2331
IMMEDIATE WH/MIAMI INFO IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR ACUTILE LONDON STOCKHOLM
PARIS
20 Jan 1971
TYPIC AMETHIOPIA
REF: WH/MIAMI 2114 (INCOMING)
1. RE REF, HAVE AM/WH-1 CALL UNITY 773-5400 EXT 508 AND ASK FOR "SERGIO" ON WORK DAYS BETWEEN 1100-1300 AND 1530-1830 AND WEEKENDS BETWEEN 1000-1300 HOURS.
2. FILE: 201-865547. GP-1
   SECRET
   B.T
   201-865542
   Jice 20 Jan 71
   201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

SECRET

No. 201-749651

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/COG/OPS - B. Turbeville

Operational Approval is hereby amended in the case of AMMUG/1, for the purpose specified in your request dated as follows:

Subject's OA is amended herewith to authorize his operational use outside the United States as set forth in his PRQ Part II dated 13 February 1965, per your memorandum request of 31 December 1970.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office. and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/S/ John E. Howard

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 6 January 1971 lc

SECRET

![GROUP automatic downgrading and declassification]

![signature]

FORM 124 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

AIG:
B. TREVILLE:mli
NIFI: WIL/COG/OPS
TT: 71-11/1819
DATE: 5 JANUARY 1971

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONFI:

SECRET
WH/MIAMI

MESSAGE CAT
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN DY

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

CITE DIRECTOR
099417

TYPIC

REF: DIRECTOR-097508

1. AMMUG-1 OA GRANTED EFFECTIVE 5 JAN FOR OPS USE OUTSIDE U.S. AS SET FORTH IN PRQ DATED 1965.

2. SUBJECT REF ASSIGNED AMETROPIA-1.

3. FILE: 201-865547, 201-749651.

END OF MESSAGE

MICROFILMED
JAN 20 1971
DOC. MICRO. SER.

![Signature of William V. Broe]
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/MID

B201-747651
RELEASING OFFICER

![Signature of Wesley L. Laybourne]
WESLEY L. LAYDOURNE
AC/WH/COG

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTICICO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES?
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM 38
PER
TURREVILLE
ACTION
FILE. VR. C/RI/AN, C/EURS, C/CI, C/F12,
ACTION NR. 187

SECRET 052216Z JAN 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 9956 5 AN IN 237892

PRIORITY LONDON, THE HAGUE INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID

RYBAT TYPIC
REF A LONDON 7124 (NOT SENT THE HAGUE, MADRID) (IN 237738)
B THE HAGUE 8918 (IN 237605)

1. FOR LONDON: OUR INTEREST IN ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ
   LLOMPART IS BASICALLY OUR ASSESSMENT THAT HE IS RECRUITABLE. THIS
   ASSESSMENT PROVIDED US BY ONE OF RODRIGUEZ'S CLOSEST FRIENDS WHO IS
   PRESENTLY RESIDING UNITED STATES. BRIEFLY STATED THIS ASSESSMENT
   INDICATES THAT RODRIGUEZ HAS TALKED AGAINST THE CUBAN REVOLUTION AND
   COMMUNISTS. ACCORDING TO ASSESSOR, RODRIGUEZ HAD ONLY ONE
   PRINCIPAL IDEA AND THAT WAS TO LEAVE CUBA AND GO TO THE STATES.

2. WE DO NOT THEREFORE, HAVE ANY DEROG INFO PER SE. HERE
   FOLLOWS A BIOGRAPHIC SUMMARY ON RODRIGUEZ: DPOB: 22 OCT 1932,
   REGLA, CUBA. IN OCTOBER 1963 RODRIGUEZ APPOINTED DIRECTOR OF
   MINING INDUSTRY SUPPLY UNIT, UNDER MINISTRY OF MINES, FUEL AND
   METALLURGY. IT IS BELIEVED THAT SUBJECT OWES HIS POSITION TO HIS
   BROTHER, HECTOR, WHO IS PRESENTLY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO EAST GERMANY.
   PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: HT: 64 INCHES, WI: 110 LBS, HAIR: STRAIGHT
   BLACK.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET: IN PAGE

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 9956 SECRET

3. FOR THE HAGUE: DPOB AAS PER PARA TWO. IN JUNE 1970, RODRIGUEZ
   WAS REPORTED AS HOLDING CUBAN DIPLOMATIC PPI D/67/587. ISSUED HAVANA
   6 SEPT 1967.

4. FILE: 201-865547. GPI.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 133

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
(When Filled In)

GROUP 1
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

JAL 54 227171

ACTION UNIT

FILE, VR EUNG, RILAN, alops Γ

SECRET 051722Z JAN 71 CITE LONDON 7124

PRIORITY WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR 5 JAN IN 237738

TYPIC

REF WH MIAMI 09883(L234350)

1. IN ORDER MAKE STRONGER CASE WITH JAGUAR FOR COVERAGE
   OF RODRIGUEZ, WOULD APPRECIATE SHORT SUMMARY DEROG INFO FOR
   PASSING JAGUAR SINCE LONDON HAS NO TRACES.

2. FILE 201-865545. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET 5 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 134

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIF
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN &

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
1
5
EXCLUCED C
2
6
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
3
7
4
8

![signature]

DY:
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR EURG. BIAN CIIcilops.alice. G
ACTION NO.
101

SECRET 051550Z JAN 71 CITE THE HAGUE 8910
WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID, LONDON

TYPIC

REF: WH/MIAMI 9914 (L235845)

1. STATION HAS REQUESTED LIAISON WATCHLISTING SUBJECT REF AND RELATED ON WHOM WE HAVE ONLY FULL NAME. TO INCREASE CHANCES EFFECTIVE LIAISON ACTION, WOULD APPRECIATE RECEIPT DPOB AND, IF AVAILABLE, PASSPORT TYPE AND NUMBER.

2. FILE: 201-865545. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET
5 Jan 71


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 135

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

|                   |        |              |     |
| ----------------- | ------ | ------------ | --- |
| ADVANCE COPY      | ISSUED | SLOTTED      |     |
| BY:               |        |              |     |
| DISSEM BY: **53** | PER:   | ACTION UNIT: |     |
| FILE: VR          |        |              |     |


SECRET (When Filled "n) REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

SECRET 312214Z DEC 73 CITE DIRTECH 3696

IMMEDIATE WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMMUS AQUATIC

REF: WH/MIAMI 9915 TR

SEND PHOTOS TO IDENTITY. GP-1.

SECRET


CS COPY

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)