# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

*SECRET*

20 July 1962

CK - 175

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief, Task Force W

GYROSE/PW

Activities of the DRE (Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil)

1.  The source of the information contained in subsequent paragraphs is Jose Ricardo Rabel Ortega, A 12 821 451, Cuban national who is the oldest son of Jose Ricardo Rabel Hunez, the present national director of "Viviendas Campesinas" in Cuba. Source vas a Navy cadet at the Mariel Academy from February 1960 to November 1961. As part of the curriculum source spent two weeks in Minas del Frio, Oriente Province, during the latter part of 1960. From February to 12 July 1962, source vorked for Viviendas Campesinas as a general office clerk. He nay be reached at the following address: c/o Manuel Gomez, 539 NE 70th Street, Miami, Florida, USA.

2.  Source gave the following information which is repeated verbatim herein.

"In a conversation on 13 July 1962 in Havana, my brother-in-law, Fernando Gomez ronseca, told me that the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) in Cuba had received 14 tons of arms and munitions to be used in the near future against the Communist regime of Cuba. He also told me that experts in the handling of explosives were entering Cuba for sabotage of bridges and railroads.

My brother-in-law, Fernando Gomez Fonseca, is in charge of the DRE in Havana Province. I also know Laureano ("Lino") Pequeno (J) who is one of the most important DRE leaders in Cuba

In the conversation, I learned also that the DRE is expecting another ship with arms and ammunition in the near future and a yacht which is now in a Lati. American country. The yacht is for use in activities against the Castro government.

The activities against the Castro government to be carried out by the DRE are expected to start within e month or two months at the latest...

Note: This information is confidential, and I want it to be kept in the greatest possible secrecy. I have spoken with no one else of this matter, which I consider very delicate. I want held in complete


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

CK- 175 -2- 20 Jul 62

08, 06

reserve the name of my brother-in-law and that of Mr. Laureano ("Lino") Pequena.

3. It is suggested that your Station may wish to establish contact with source for purposes of determining any operational potentialities that the source may have and/or to assess a possible breach of security.

Neil T. PICKWORTH

SECRET

//BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)