# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

I. ENTRY INTO DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL HEADQUARTERS

A. BACKGROUND

Five men were arrested by the Washington Metropolitan Police at 2:10 a.m. on 17 June 1972, after having been discovered breaking into the Democratic National Headquarters at the Watergate in Washington, D. C. The five men had cameras and rather sophisticated bugging equipment. Although the suspects initially used aliases during the police interrogation, they were identified as Messrs. James Walter McCord, Jr.; Bernard L. Barker; Frank Anthony Sturgis; Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga; and Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel. The Watergate incident has continued to receive extensive publicity, and there is suspicion that a sixth person was directly involved in the illegal entry.

B. PRIMARY FIGURES

1. James Walter McCord, Jr.

Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., a former Agent of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, served as a Staff Employee of the Agency from 22 August 1951 until his retirement on 31 August 1970. At the time of his retirement, he was a GS-15, Security Officer. He has since set up his private investigative organization known as McCord Associates, and in early 1972, he was named Security Coordinator for the National Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon.

2. Bernard L. Barker

Mr. Bernard L. Barker, a former Captain in the U. S. Air Force, was born in Cuba of American-born parents, and he began cooperating with the Agency in 1959. He was hired on a contract basis in April 1960, and was used primarily to report on Cuban exile activities. Mr. Barker was terminated by the Agency on 31 July 1966, to accept employment in private industry.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

3. Frank Anthony Sturgis

Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis, who has used numerous aliases, formerly served in the U. S. Marine Corps and the U. S. Army in the 1940's. As of 1959, Mr. Sturgis was a Captain in the Cuban Army, but later became disillusioned with Castro, became a soldier of fortune, and in 1961 headed an organization called the International Anticommunist Brigade, which he claimed had 5,000 members. Mr. Sturgis was never recruited by the Agency, but has been associated with Mr. Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, an Agency contact since the 1960's.

4. Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga

Mr. Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, an American citizen of Cuban birth, was recruited by the Agency in 1961. The project to which he was assigned was terminated in 1969, and he has since been on a part-time retainer to report on the Cuban exile community, receiving $100.00 a month. Prior to 1969, he received $8, 100.00 per year for his full-time operational activity. It is to be noted that Mr. Martinez is a real estate partner of Mr. Bernard L. Barker.

5. Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel

Mr. Virgilio Ramon Gonzales-Rosabel, who has used various aliases, is not on record in WH Division/DDP, or any other component of the Agency. The Federal Bureau of Investigation has been advised that the Central Intelligence Agency has no record of Mr. Gonzales-Rosabel.

C. THE WHITE HOUSE

Everette Howard Hunt, Jr.

Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., a former War Correspondent and free lance writer, was previously affiliated with the Office of Strategic Services, and he was employed as an Agency Staff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

EYES ONLY

Employee from 8 November 1949 until his retirement on 30 April 1970, when he commenced private employment with Robert R. Mullen and Company, a firm which has been utilized by the Agency for cover purposes. A news article of July 1971 indicated that Mr. Hunt joined the White House Staff asa Consultant to President Nixon preparatory to the President's visit to the Peoples Republic of China. Much of the recent publicity in the case has focused on Mr. Hunt, who was interviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 17 June 1972. Не admitted that he had written a check to Mr. McCord but invoked his Constitutional rights on all other questions.

On the White House issue, previous reference was made to the employment of Mr. James W. McCord by the Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon.

D. CURRENT AGENCY STAFF EMPLOYEES

1. James Corbin Fitchett

James Corbin Fitchett entered on duty with the Agency in early 1952, and is currently a GS-13, Security Officer. His wife, Kathryn Fitchett, is also an Office of Security employee. Scheduled to retire from the Agency on 30 June 1972, Mr. Fitchett made it known to Mr. McCord in May 1972, that he would be available to work with the Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon, and he was offered a position as a paid Security Officer. Mr. McCord initially wanted to utilize him as of 15 June 1972, but Mr. Fitchett requested a polygraph interview to substantiate his claim that he was not involved in the Watergate incident. Polygraph testing on 20 June 1972, was completely favorable.

2. Ralph Orlando True

Ralph Orlando True entered on duty with the Agency on 1 December 1950, and is currently a GS-15, Security Officer. Scheduled to retire from the Agency on

EVES ONLY
SECRET
3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

EYES ONLY

30 June 1972, Mr. True planned on assuming a position with McCord Associates or an affiliate security unit. It has been established that Mr. True was in Mr. McCord's office at the Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon on 16 June 1972, the day before the Watergate incident. Mr. True denies any direct involvement in the case.

3. (Donald Read Heath, Jr.)

(Donald Read Heath, Jr.) entered on duty with the Agency in mid-1952, and is currently a GS-14, Operations Officer assigned to WH Division/DDP. He has been acquainted with Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., through the years, and he developed an acquaintance with Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., at Montgomery Community College in the fall of 1971, when Mr. McCord was teaching an industrial security course at the educational institution. Mr. (Heath's) association with Mr. McCord developed through his interest in a young Chilean protege, Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas, who formerly worked as an (Agency operational asset in Santiago, Chile.) It is to be noted that Mr. (Heath) arranged for Juan RUIZ Villegas to acquire an office position at McCord Associates while the young Chilean continued to live in Mr. (Heath's) home, drive Mr. (Heath's) vehicle, and attend school.

4. Harry Thayer Mahoney

Harry Thayer Mahoney entered on duty with the Agency on 30 March 1951, and is currently a GS-14, Operations Officer assigned to WH Division/DDP. Scheduled to retire from the Agency on 30 June 1972, Mr. Mahoney, a former polygraph examiner in the Office of Security, is acquainted with Messrs. Ralph O. True and Everette Howard Hunt, Jr. The Office of Personnel Outplacement Assistance Branch referred Mr. Mahoney to Mr. McCord and he was interviewed for a position at his offices for the Committee for the Re-election of President Nixon, or or about 10 May 1972. Mr. Mahoney was offered a position with McCord Associates.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

McCord Associates has an approved job resume, but Mr. Mahoney has made no decision on taking the McCord offer.

E. FORMER AGENCY STAFF EMPLOYEES

1. Therese Mae Shea

Mrs. Therese Mae Shea served as a GS-07, Staff Employee of the Agency from 15 June 1948 until her resignation from maternity leave on 20 April 1956. Her husband, William Francis Shea, was also with the Agency until February 1971. Mrs. Shea has been working as a secretary to Mr. James W. McCord at McCord Associates in Rockville, Maryland, and she quite naturally has extensive knowledge of Agency contacts with the private investigative firm. She knows Mr. (Donald Read 03 Heath, Jr.), and is aware of his ties with Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas.

2. Dr. Edward Mansfield Gunn

Dr. Edward M. Gunn served with the Agency from 13 June 1955 until 31 May 1971, and he was a GS-17, Deputy Director of Medical Services, at the time of his retirement. Dr. Gunn was interviewed by an Office of Security representative on 19 June 1972, and discussed in some detail his involvement with the Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Incorporated, which is affiliated with McCord Associates and occupies space in the same offices. Dr. Gunn last had direct personal contact with Mr. McCord on 21 April 1972, and he denies having any knowledge of the Watergate incident.

3. Dr. Jacob Victor Golder

Dr. Jacob V. Golder, a former OSS employee, served with the Agency from 3 January 1955 until 16 April 1971, and he was a GS-15, Chief of Psychological Services Staff/Office of Medical Services, at the time of .


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
EYES ONLY

his retirement. He is still being utilized by the
Agency on a contract basis at the SECRET level.
Dr. Golder has not yet been interviewed (as of
23 June 1972) but indications are that his ties to
Mr. McCord are similar to those of Dr. Gunn
mainly through his participation as a Consultant-
Instructor at the Institute for Protection and Safety
Studies, Incorporated.

4. William Francis Shea

William F. Shea served with the Agency from July
1951 until February 1971, and was a GS-14,
Intelligence Officer with the Office of Strategic
Research, DDI at the time of his resignation. He
had unsatisfactory fitness reports; resigned in lieu
of termination; and may not be too favorably disposed
towards the Agency. As previously indicated, his
wife, Therese Mae Shea, works as a secretary at
McCord Associates. / The Office of Personnel referred
Mr. Shea to McCord Associates in 1971, and Dr.
Edward M. Gunn indicated that Mr. Shea is affiliated
with the Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc.

5. Walter Edward Brayden

Walter Edward Brayden served with the Agency from
2 February 1948 until 31 October 1969, and was a
GS-13, Intelligence Officer, assigned to Operational
Services/Central Cover Staff/DDP, at the time of his
retirement. Mr. Brayden was interviewed by an
Office of Security representative on 20 June 1972,
when he indicated that he has been employed by McCord
Associates in minor security duties during the last few
months. In April 1972, he served as a guard for Mrs.
Martha Mitchell on a trip to Chicago, and he expected
to work on a security survey of the Hotel Fontainbleau
in Miami in late June 1972.

EYES ONLY

6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

EYES ONLY

6. George Theodore Stanton

George Theodore Stanton served with the Agency from 4 August 1947 to 8 January 1972, and was a GS-14, Operations Officer, assigned to the Counter Intelligence Staff/DDP, at the time of his retirement. Dr. Edward M. Gunn indicated that Mr. Stanton has been serving as a Consultant to the Institute for Protection of Safety Studies, Incorporated.

7. Louis Edgar Sherrard

Louis Edgar Sherrard served with the Agency from 2 July 1952 until 31 January 1969, when he resigned. At the time of his resignation, he was a GS-13, Security Officer assigned to the Security Research Staff. Mr. Sherrard's employment background centers on industrial and physical security, and he resigned from the Agency with the stated intention of taking a position with Bestline Products, Incorporated, of San Jose, California. There have been recent "rumors" that Mr. Sherrard is in some way affiliated with McCord Associates, but there are no specifics on this.

8. Ross Ward Lambert

Ross Ward Lambert, a former OSS employee, served with the Agency from 11 January 1965 to 9 August 1971, and was a GS-13, Contract Employee assigned to the Special Operations Division/DDP, at the time of his resignation. Mr. Lambert served extensively in Far East Division overseas posts, and there was a previous security interest in the case because of his daughter's involvement in activities of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS). The Office of Personnel referred Mr. Lambert to McCord Associates but he took a job elsewhere.

EVES DALY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# 9. James Louis Baker

James Louis Baker served with the Agency from 2 July 1952 until 24 June 1972, when his contract was allowed to expire. Mr. Baker, a GS-12, Operations Officer assigned to Special Operations Division/DDP, was in Saigon, South Vietnam, from April 1968 until 24 July 1971, when he was returned to Headquarters because of serious marital and related medical problems involving his wife. Divorce proceeding's continued through early 1972, and his case has been monitored by the Office of Personnel. Subject was referred to McCord Associates by the Office of Personnel, but he acquired a position with the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, to be effective as of 26 June 1972. His application may possibly be on file at McCord Associates.

# F. OTHER CIA CONNECTIONS

# 1. Robert Foster Bennett

Robert Foster Bennett, son of U. S. Senator Wallace Bennett of Utah, is Director and Executive Vice-President of Robert R. Mullen and Company, which has been utilized by the Agency for commercial cover purposes. Mr. Bennett has been interviewed by members of the news media because of intense interest in Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., a former Agency Staff Employee working for the same firm. A Covert Security Approval was issued on 19 March 1971 for Mr. Bennett's use in providing cover for an Agency overseas asset. The Executive Director-Comptroller and the Director of Central Intelligence were advised at the time of the approval.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

## 2. Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas

Juan Rigoberto RUIZ Villegas was hired by Mr. (Donald R. Heath, Jr.) as a Covert Asset in "(Santiago, Chile) and continued to be used in (Chile) from June 1969 to June 1971. RUIZ came to the United States in August 1971, became something of (Heath) protege, and resided in Mr. (Heath's) home from 19 August 1971 to 21 April 1972. RUIZ attended Montgomery Community College, became acquainted with Mr. James W. McCord at that educational institution, and later acquired temporary (and illegal) employment at McCord Associates as a sort of caretaker. Mr.(Heath) also assisted Mr. McCord in arranging for the payment of RUIZ, a Chilean National, and Mr. (Heath) at one point got RUIZ a part-time job with Mr. Glenn I. Sedam, Head of the District of Columbia Committee to Re-elect Richard Nixon.

G. COVER ORGANIZATIONS

1. Robert R. Mullen and Company

Robert R. Mullen and Company has been utilized by the Central Cover Stafí since 1963, and since that time a total of eight people of the Mullen Company have been cleared or made witting of Agency ties. Mr. Mullen has provided sensitive cover support overseas for Agency employees and he was instrumental in the formation of the Cuban Freedom Committee. Mr. Edward Naeher, Mullen's Book- keeper and Accountant, is a retired CIA Finance Officer. As of 1 May 1970, Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, Jr., who had just retired from the Agency, became a legitimate employee of Mr. Mullen. He is aware of at least two present cover placements under Robert R. Mullen and Company. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was informed of this Agency connection by memorandum dated 21 June 1972.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET
EYES ONLY

2. Interprogres

Interprogres is a new subsidiary of the Mullen Company formed in 1971, as a result of contacts developed at the Zagreb Trade Fair in Yugoslavia. It is a pilot operation aimed at expanding East-West commercial relationships. At least two (Agency overseas assets) have tangential tasks of promoting the acceptance of this company as a Mullen subsidiary. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised of the Agency connection by memorandum dated 21 June 1972, which covered Robert R. Mullen and Company.

3. General Foods Corporation

General Foods Corporation, headquartered in the White Plains, New York area, is a client of Robert R. Mullen and Company. The General Foods Corporation is providing cover support to (two Agency assets overseas). Over the years, because of personnel changes, sixteen officials have been cleared on certain aspects of our interests, but they have not been informed of our use of Robert R. Mullen and Company. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was informed of our (Agency ties) to the General Foods Corporation by memorandum dated 21 June 1972.

H. RELATED AGENCY CHECKS

The Federal Bureau of Investigation and/or the news media have mentioned the following individuals or organizations in the course of the investigation of the Watergate incident. Agency records are either negative or contain no information directly pertinent to the Watergate incident:

1. Association of National Advertisers

Association of National Advertisers was mentioned by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as having offices with Robert R. Mullen and Company. The Bureau was advised "no record".

EYES ONLY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

## SECRET

## EYES ONLY

2. "CIF"

"CIF", without further details, was mentioned by the Federal Bureau of Investigation as having offices with Robert R. Mullen and Company. The Bureau was advised "no record" on the basis of available information.

3. Ameritas, Incorporated

Ameritas, Incorporated is said to be a Florida real estate firm and several individuals listed employment with this organization when registering at the Watergate. The Bureau was advised "no record".

4. George Leonard

George Leonard, 1601 Washington Avenue, Kansas City, Kansas, registered at the Watergate. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised "not identifiable".

5. Edward Warner

Edward Warner, 143 West 73rd Street, New York City, New York, registered at the Watergate. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised "not identifiable". The Federal Bureau of Investigation later listed the person as Edward L. Warren, of the same address, and we advised "no record". The press has speculated that "E. Warren" may be an alias of Mr. James W. McCord,

6. Paul Jose Piedra

Paul Jose Piedra registered at the Watergate. The Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised "no record".

7. Joe Granada

Joe Granada registered at the Watergate. The Federal Bureau of Investicas advised "no record".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

## 8. Michael Douglas Caddy

Michael Douglas Caddy (aka: Douglas Caddy) is a lawyer with an office at 1250 Connecticut Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C. He is mentioned in the press as an attorney who was called into the case by the wife of Mr. Bernard L. Barker, one of the primary figures in the Watergate incident.

On 21 June 1972, the Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised that Caddy has never been employed by or associated with the Agency in any capacity.

## 9. McCord Associates

No Agency file reference located on McCord Associates.

## 10. Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc.

Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc. is affiliated indirectly with McCord Associates and has offices at the same Rockville, Maryland address.

## 11. Joseph A. Rafferty, Jr.

Joseph A. Rafferty, Jr., a trial lawyer who was called into the case by Mr. Barker's attorney, Douglas Caddy. No record.

## 12. Miguel A. Suarez

Miguel A. Suarez is mentioned in the press as a Cuban exile and lawyer and one of the "links to the Republican Party". He was listed by the press as a self-styled "Nixonian" who represented Florida's Cuban community in dealing with former GOP Governor Claude R. Kirk, Jr. He is listed as having an office with Mr. Barker at 955 First Street, Southwest, Miami, Florida, and is said to be a business partner of Mr. Barker. Allegedly the Federal Bureau of Investigation planned on interviewing him. He was of Agency interest between 1960 and 1965 in connection with propaganda activities aimed toward Cuba.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET.
EYES ONLY

13. Marie-Elene Barker Moffett

Marie-Elene Barker Moffett is mentioned in the press as the daughter of Mr. Bernard L. Barker. Thought was given to releasing Mr. Barker to her custody. No record.

14. Alberto Carricarte

Alberto Carricarte is mentioned in the press as the law partner of Miguel A. Suarez and Secretary of Ameritas, Incorporated. No record.

15. All State Investment Fund, S.A..

All State Investment Fund, S.A., is mentioned in the press as the parent company of Ameritas, Incorporated. It reportedly was established in Panama by Miguel A. Suarez to engage in real estate investment activities in the Caribbean area. No record

I. BIOGRAPHIC SUMMARIES

Complete biographic summaries have been prepared on those current Staff Employees, former Staff Employees, and Contract Personnel who were in any way connected with the Watergate incident, McCord Associates, the Institute for Protection and Safety Studies, Inc., or cover organizations.

J. ADDENDUM

Mr. Ralph Orlando True was interviewed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on 23 June 1972, and he furnished a statement covering his association with Mr. James W. McCord and possible future employment by McCord Associates. The Bureau was following up on Mr. True's Agency telephone extension.

EYES ONLY
SECRET
13


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)