2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE-TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 100-5-1

INCLUSIVE DATES: AUG. 62- DEC. 63

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Pre-dates
HSCA request

(Call 3rd Agency)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

UNCLASSIFIED.

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

DC,/03/JPriebo

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|     |                |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| --- | -------------- | ----------- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | DO/SR          |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 2.  | DO/SAT         |             |     |     | 2- This information was sent to CI Staff recently and has probably been forwarded to you for reply. Though you might be able to use this extra copy. |
| 3.  | SR/CI/BBright  | AUG 8 1963  |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 4.  | Joan           |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 5.  |                |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 6.  | CSR/CI/K       |             |     |     | CHANGED FROM RID/FI                                                                                                                                  |
| 7.  | Dolores        |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 8.  | EE/G/CE-Wagman |             |     |     | 6-5 note in memo: Schroeden apparent BND approaching a subra quent Sov. appwach- Coue Fulfe boove spotid ja 11GB?                                    |
| 9.  | SR/CI/K        |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 10. |                |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 11. | SR/CI/A        | AUG 20 1963 |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 12. | Joan           |             |     |     | 8 to 9: Looks like RIS was on him first, but they may have sent Felfe (or emitter) at him for a false flag recruitment attempt.                      |
| 13. | RID/IAN        |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 14. | RI/MIS         |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |
| 15. | RID/files      |             |     |     |                                                                                                                                                      |

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY. UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CLAFET SENSITIVE

/10571

5 July 1963

Chief, Cf Utaff/L
2 C 48 Пра

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Astengted RIB Panetration of bell telephons Laboratories - -10612

1. Attached are two memoranda, dated 26 June 1963, from our New York Field Office concerning apparent RIB interest in Manfred R. Schroeder and Donald B. Thomas, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Murray Hill, New Jersey. We believe this information should be passed to the FBI immediately. We would appreciate being advised of the date this information is forwarded to the Bureau.

2. For your information, permission to brief Dr. Schroeder prior to his trip to the USSR was requested by our New York Office but refused by FI Staff. In view of his employment, however, and previous CD/00 contacts with him, FI recommended he be provided with a strong defensive and realities briefing.

3. Further inquiry may be directed to Mrs. Shirley Stetson, CN/08, Support Branch, Room 413, 1717 N Street, N. W., extension 2268.

K. M. ASHCRAFT

Esorge Vigla

Came. 3761

Faalai As stated above

Stetson/mm

CC: CS

100-5-1

30 JULY 63

CS COPY

SECRET SENSITIVE

100-5-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

*Memorandum*

TO : Chief, Contact Division DATE: 1 July 1963

Attn : Mc Connell/Czajkowski/Lincoln Staff

FROM : Chief, New York Office

SUBJECT: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

Ref: NY Reports 2988-3 and 2989-3

1. We thought the attached reports would be of interest to Lincoln Staff from a Soviet realities standpoint. We also felt that they should be brought to the attention of Division management because the M.0. outlined therein is becoming a major factor in dealing with sources who have contact with Sovbloc nationals. It has been our experience that the type of activity outlined has been on a marked increase, particularly since the establishment of the KGB 10th Directorate. Although such activity by Sov legals is taking place throughout the continental U.3., undoubtedly its greatest impact is being felt in the New York and Washington, D.C. areas because of the larga Soviet Government establishments in both of these cities. For this reason it would seem imperative that both WAFO and NYFO be extremely vigilant for such activity in companies and institutions with which they are dealing in order that it may be recognized in its earliest stages and appropriate CI/CE countermeasures instituted. In order to assist other offices in this respect, we plan to write in the near future an article for the Division Newsletter, outlining some of our experiences along these lines.

2. We were somewhat disappointed in CI Staff's reaction to our recent request for assistance in defensive briefing of the subject of one of the attached reports. It seems to be quite clear now that our original assumption concerning his being R.I.S. targeted was quite correct and that there is a strong likelihood that his current trip behind the Curtain will be utilized by the opposition for provocation and/or an actual recruitment attempt. We wonder in future cases of this nature exactly what support we may expect from Angleton's shop. Although we feel that we have a fair capability for handling such matters here in New York, we do admit that, at least on this one, we would have felt slightly more comfortable had a CI specialist been along, if for no other reason than to preclude any possible Monday morning quarterbacking by the "old pros."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

-2-

Subject: Attempted R.I.S. Penetration of Bell Telephone Labs

3. Judging by the attached material, it would appear that, despite established Bell policy (see our 16 May memorandum re Case 39,790), the opposition has seen fit to deflower at least two of Bell's scientific virgins. We seriously wonder at this point just how many other Bell people might be in the same boat. Perhaps, as a result of all this, some representation by Bell management to the KGB will be forthcoming, spelling out to that organization, as was spelled out to our own, established company policy pertaining to such matters. In any event, it would appear that at least one or two Bell scientists, and there are probably more, have been giving the R.I.S. more cooperation and reporting than the Agency. Let's hope that in the near future Bell management takes some effective steps to rectify this rather ludicrous, and patently dangerous, situation.

Attachments: NY Reports 2988-3
and 2989-3

Chagle/mg

JAY B. L. REEVES

SECRET

10612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# Memorandum

TO: Chief, Contact Division.

Attn: Support (Shirley Stetson)

FROM: Chief, New York Office

DATE: 26 June 1963

SUBJECT: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred A. Schroeder (201-734194) Bell Telephone Labs

1. 0930-1230 hours 14 June, Manfred A. Schroeder of Bell Labs received a strong defensive briefing in connection with his June-July trip to the USSR and Bulgaria (see our 7 May Coordination Outline for subject).

During Schroeder's briefing, Nagle elicited from him that prior to a trip to the USSR in 1959 he had been contacted by an individual who represented himself as a West German Intelligence Officer. More important, we also learned that, at about the same time, RIS cultivation of Schroeder apparently began.

2. Concerning the West German approach, Schroeder indicated that his mother, who resides in Hamburg, was telephoned in 1959 by an individual who claimed to be an old acquaintance of her son's and who was interested in contacting him concerning employment in the US. The caller left a phone number and said that he would appreciate it if Schroeder could call him next time he was in Hamburg. Schroeder's mother relayed the message to her son, and, as requested, he telephoned the caller just prior to his 1959 USSR junket. The individual he called identified himself as a West German intelligence Officer and said that he would like to meet Schroeder as soon as possible. Schroeder agreed. When they met, the individual in question (Schroeder does not recall his name) presented suitable credentials and expressed interest in Schroeder's trip to the USSR. According to Schroeder's account, the West German Intelligence Officer gave him the old "keep your eyes and ears open" pitch, and said him that he would contact him in the first West German city in which he touched down after his USSR trip. Schroeder was contacted in Stuttgart promptly after returning to Germany from the USSR on his way back to the US. Because of his US employment and the fact that Bell paid for his trip, Schroeder became very apprehensive about any further contact with the West German service and at the time of the call indicated that he had nothing to say and wanted no further contact. Other than the cursory examination of credentials (as reported above), Schroeder made no attempt to establish the bona fides of the German who made the approach. We pointed out to Schroeder the unlikely possibility that the approach might not have been bona fide and might, in fact, have been a provocation.

* copy attached.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET
SENSITIVE
10612
Apparenty .I.S. ultivation or
prior to the above incident. According to his routine Savitain
reccived what appeared to be a roultine
acoustics facilities in Moscow and Leningrad in connection with. the invitation
timat during his visit he w uld have to
Sovo acoustics engineer who was very, inttengte, and ind done sever Russian tran
long of time
result of this correspondence, Searouder receves
ut his home a cople of days prior ti dejart
from an individual who claimed to be
in New York. The caller told
delivery the & sp
of the State Conmittee
caller, whose na Schroeder. i.
Like to delive
Schroeder inlia
which he had t. ..
thor condel
finally agreed to inve
up the invitation.
Schroeder Lavis: Si
the latter decilnd, however
an area closed strawny S
the Sov arranged to tout sender
Chithaun, New Jersey, a
for her husband.
Schroeder said that his that hew their to her the invitation
hat. Dott to the same th
a as in the event, was quite
routine and that he cold recull noti thing out
during the trip. Aring the viis, sais
speaks fluent German, acted as his
continually.
5.Sometimin e chroeder received a
one evening from Vladimi
KGB SAT
ys
A
hired.
Mentified self sp
unid that Sola fric
sentative of Amtors so
Purduev had just completed a visit to
to ew York at... secore inaving the
ps esent to Schroder for an, hence
that Solga insisted on on deliverin
in person, and the two ale ar rrangements to have together ne
This began a series approximately
following week in Maniattan.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SENSITIVE

Subject: Apparent interest in Manfred A. Schroeder;
Cell Telephone Labs

or more contacts with Volgin, which started until late 1961 when Schroeder
received a note from Volgin stating that he and his family were planning to the USSR in order that his wife could improve there. Incidentally, Schroeder's only other contact with Piradov was in 1962 when he met him in Copenhagen at a professional meeting.

6. Schroeder said that most, if not all, of Volgin's phone calls to him were to his home and usually appeared to have been made from pay phones. Schroeder said that his meetings with Volgin included lunches and dinners in Manhattan, socializing at the USSR T.R.O. Meeting, theater, and entertainment of each other in their respective homes. Schroeder claims that his wife accompanied him during most of his contact with Volgin. Other than to his own family, Volgin never introduced Schroeder to any other individuals.

7. Schroeder claims that on a couple of occasions he turned over unclassified technical papers to Volgin, who claimed to be an acoustics engineer. Schroeder can't recall whether Volgin specifically requested the information or whether he turned it over to him on his own initiative. At one point during their relationship, Volgin asked Schroeder to write an article on US acoustics work for publication in a Soviet Technical Journal. Schroeder declined.

8. In retrospect Schroeder admitted that he had been quite naive about his relationship with Volgin and expressed some concern that security hadn't been more active in admonishing him against development of relationships with Soviet Government representatives. His view of his experiences now completely coincides with ours as a result of our discussion.

9. Another factor which obviously enters into Schroeder's R.I.D. picture is his wife's Bulgarian extraction. Schroeder claims that neither he nor, to the best of his knowledge, his wife have ever been approached by Sovbloc representatives in this country concerning his wife's family in Bulgaria. His wife's mother, Ivanalia Mensecik, immigrated to the US in April 1965 and lived with Schroeder and his wife until November 1962 when she returned to Sofia, apparently because she was homesick and couldn't adjust to the new language and life in the US. Schroeder said that his mother-in-law's original exit visa request was rejected in 1958 by the Bulgarian Government, but after he and his wife wrote several letters to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry she was finally granted permission to leave in 1960.

SECRET

SENSITIVE 10612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET
SENSITIVE

-4-

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder,
Bell Telephone labs

10. After Schröeder visits the USSR on his current trip, he plans to fly to Sofia to spend approximately a week with his wife's family there. Schroeder had not mentioned the Bulgarian visit in outlining his original itinerary to Bob Martin of this office, therefore, it vas not mentioned in Schroeder's Coordination Outline.

11. All of the above would seem to indicate quite strongly that Schroeder, as we originally surmised, has been targeted by R.1.3. In briefing Schroeder, we ran through some of the typical entrapment situations fabricated by the opposition, e.g., women, homosexuals, purchase of drugs for Sov citizens, black market activity, acceptance of letters to mail outside the USSR, commitments to disaffected Sovs, etc. In addition, we stringently admonished Schroeder against any notetaking or photography which could in any way be construed as com- promising. We also alerted Schroeder to the fact that some attempt might be made to use his wife's family as leverage in a recruitment attempt. In this connection, we pointed out to Schroeder that there was a strong likelihood that the R.I.S. and/or Bulgarian service would make an approach to him during his forthcoming visit to Sofia. An approach in Bulgaria would give the Sovs an opportunity for disavowal and also would provide the proper setting for maximum utilization of relatives. When Schroeder mentioned that his sister-in-law, FNU Mensckik, had indicated several times in the past that she would like to leave Bulgaria, we strongly admonished him against making any commitments to her, pointing out that she may possibly be co-opted by the opposition. We told Schroeder that any representations to gain an-exit visa for his sister-in-law should be channeled through the US Legation in Sofia. Schroeder was told that, if any pressure were applied concerning his wife's family, his best reaction would probably be a noncommittal, "I'll think it over when I get home:" All in all, we alerted Schroeder as best we could to the opposition M.O. and prepared him on how best to avoid some of the not so obvious pitfalls which might be in store for him.

12. Prior to our briefing of Schroeder, Bob Martin alerted Bell management to all of the ramifications of Schroeder's travel behind the Curtain. The management was informed by Martin that we felt it our obligation to point out to them the strong possibility that Schroeder had been targeted in order that they would have all of the facts available before signing off on his trip.

SECRET
SENSITIVE

10612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET
SENSITIVE

-5-

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Manfred R. Schroeder,
Bell Telephone Labs

13. Assessment of Schroeder: Subject, a very accomplished
    scientist, heads up all acoustics research at Bell. He reads
    Russian and is fluent in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch,
    and English. He impresses us as being a rather savvy, discreet,
    cooperative, mature, stable, well motivated individual. We attri-
    bute Schroeder's apparent lack of discretion in his dealings with
    the Sovs more to the subtlety of the Sov approach than to his own
    naivete. It has been our experience that most US businessmen and
    scientists are very susceptible and vulnerable to the opposition
    approach mainly due to somewhat of a lack of realistic public
    education.concerning contacts with Sovbloc nationals. We feel
    that Schroeder's degree of cooperativeness with US services has
    been enhanced considerably by his feeling that he has really been
    taken for a ride by the opposition.

Incidentally, when we asked subject for permission to release this
information with source disclosure to the FBI, he was at first some-
what apprehensive and expressed the desire to talk it over with one
of his Bell superiors before he made any commitments. He finally
agreed, however, when we convinced him that it would certainly be in
his best interest to get on record with the FBI as soon as possible.
Most of his apprehension about the FBI seemed to be attributable to
the fact that he has just been granted UB citizenship and, in addition,
is now somewhat concerned that his activities with the Sovs in some
way may effect his security status which in turn could be very detri-
mental to his career.

Based on our limited contact with Schroeder, we have every reason to
believe that he would be suitable for operational use, should the
bureau choose to pursue such a course.

14. We would strongly recommend that all of the above be passed
    to the Bureau ASAP in order that that organization may effect contact
    with Schroeder and provide him with proper guidance concerning any
    further approaches by Sor or Bloc nationals in this country.

Magle/ng

JAY B. REEVES

SECRET
SENSITIVE

10612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

14-00000

2. **Born, POB, citizenship:** Born 1 July 1926, Ahlen, Germany. German citizenship papers…. application for US citizenship made 22 January 1963.

3. **Home Address:** [redacted]

4. **Place of Assignment and Position**

Technical Staff

Bell Laboratories

Murray Hill, New Jersey

Head of Acoustics Research

5. **Itinerary:** Subject will tentatively depart US 18 May, arriving Moscow 19 May. He will spend two weeks visiting labs in Moscow and Leningrad at the invitation of D. Oviasiantai, Deputy Chairman, State committee for Coordination of Scientific Research. If the 19 May arrival date is not acceptable to the Soviets, subject will make the trip in June or July.

6. **Reason for Trip:** During November 1968, while in Europe, subject received an invitation from the USSR Academy of Sciences to visit various Soviet acoustic laboratories. Because of a tight schedule at the time subject declined the invitation. In early March of this year he received the invitation from Orisbient mentioned above.

During his trip, subject will discuss with Soviet counterparts various aspects of voice communications research, electroacoustics, and architectural acoustics. He will also visit Soviet laboratories involved in research in those fields.

7. **Security Status:** Subject was granted Secret clearance by Middletown Air Material Command 30 July 1956 in anticipation of his being used on classified project at Bell Laboratories. Alias name check on subject pending.

8. **Previous Intelligence Activities:** In 1959 subject was contacted twice by CI/CG New York Field Office for debriefing after a trip to the USSR. At the time he was generally cooperative.

![document number] 10612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

-2-

but somewhat: apprehensive. He was again contacted in lye for briefing subsequent to a US visit of a soviet counterpart.

7. Relatives or Close Friends in Denied Areas: Subject's wife was born in Sofia, Bulgaria. She now reportedly holds US citizenship. In November 1962 Subject managed to arrange for immigration to the US of his mother-in-law, Israel'a Weschler. After a short stay in this country, however, she returned to her home in Sofia in March 1963. In addition to his mother-in-law, presumably there are other relatives of his wife still living in Bulgaria.

10. Extent of Previous Trips to Denied Areas: 13-18 August 1959 subject visited scientist laboratories in Moscow and Leningrad.

11. Analysis of Subject's Competence: Subject is a very competent acoustics scientist. He reads Russian and is fluent in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Czech and English.

12. Extent of Personal Assessment: During our constant limited re-lationships with subject he has given every indication of being discreet, security conscious, mature, and cooperative.

13. Extent of Substantive Briefing Proposed and Requirements to be Levied: None. Subject will not be briefed on operations of any kind. No photography or incriminating note taking will be requested of him.

14. Defensive and Realities Briefing: Subject will receive routine defensive and Soviet realities briefing.

15. Briefing Office and Participants: Briefing will be conducted by CI/CG New York Field Office personnel.

16. Funding of Trip: Subject's trip will be funded by his company.

17. Orientation Briefing: 15 May 1963.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET

# SENSITIVE

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Chief, Contact Division

Attn : Support (Shirley Stetson)

PROM : Chief, New York Office

SUBJECT: Apparent RIS Interest in Donald E. Thomas,
Bell Laboratories

DATE: 26 June 1963

00-A-3266992

(NY-29883)

1. During routine debriefing of Donald E. Thomas of Bell Laboratories in connection with his recent USSR visit to attend the Poyov Society Meeting, 5-14 May, Moscow (see NYOR 8878 for Coordination Outline) subject mentioned having had recent contact with a Soviet Government representative in this country. The Soviet in question identified himself to Thomas as Gleb Aleksi Pavlov and gave his address as 1216 First Avenue, Manhattan.

2. According to Thomas, his initial contact with Pavlov took place in late March following the International Convention and Show of the I.B.E.E., 25-29 March, New York City (see Case 39843). At the convention Thomas became friendly with two Soviet counterparts in attendance, A. V. Tiel and Anatole Trutka, both of whom Thomas invited to his home for a social visit during their US stay. When the Sovs departed for home following the convention, Thomas saw them off at New York International Airport. It was at the airport that he first met Pavlov, who apparently was seeing off all of the Sov I.E.E.E. delegates. After the Sov delegation had departed, Thomas and Pavlov returned to Manhattan together and, on parting, exchanged addresses.

3. A couple of weeks after their initial meeting, Pavlov telephoned Thomas at his home and told him that Tiel and Trutka had asked him to send their warmest regards to Thomas and thank him for the hospitality which he showed them during their trip to this country. During the conversation, Pavlov expressed an interest in renewing his acquaintance with Thomas, and suggested that he would enjoy visiting him at his home in Madison, New Jersey. Thomas said that he would enjoy seeing Pavlov, but that he was currently preparing to leave on a trip to the USSR and Europe and was not scheduled to return to the UB until late May. Thomas suggested that, in view of this, perhaps early June would be a good time for them to plan on getting together. Pavlov replied that he, himself would be in the USSR then, but would contact Thomas when he returned in early July. Incidentally, Pavlov's

* copy attached

SECRET

SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET
SENSITIVE

-2-

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Donald E. Thomas,
Bell Laboratories

phone call to Thomas was made on a pay phone. In fact, when the opera-
tor cut in for overtime, Thomas called Pavlov back at the pay phone.
Thomas mentioned that he possibly might have the phone number written
down somewhere.

4. Soon after the phone call from Pavlov, Thomas called John
   McVicker of the State Department and inquired if any clearance of
   Pavlov's proposed trip to his home in Madison would be necessary.
   McVicker told Thomas that any such clearances were Pavlov's worry
   and that he need not be concerned about. same.

5. During his recent trip to the USSR, it would appear that
   Thomas was exposed to two incidents which possibly could have been
   of opposition fabrication. One involved an approach by a Soviet
   interpreter by the name of FNU Petrov, who took Thomas aside and
   asked him if he could do him a personal favor by getting him a sub-
   scription to National Geographic Magazine for which he, Petrov, would
   reimburse Thomas in rubles. Thomas politely refused.

6. The other incident involved Thomas being photographed with
   an attractive young female Interpreter, Ludmilla Oshkina. According
   to Thomas, when one of the Soviets in their party vas about to take
   a picture of him standing next to Ludmilla, another individual stand-
   ing nearby vas pushed out of the way apparently so that he would not
   be included in the photograph. In addition, Ludmilla attempted to
   strike an affectionate pose with Thomas for the photograph by slipping
   her arm through his. Thomas claims to have pushed her arm avay just
   as the photo was being snapped.

7. Assessment of Thomas: Subject strikes us as being extremely
   naive and unrealistic. He appears to be more apprehensive about his
   dealings with CIA than his dealings with Soviets. In fact, when Thomas
   was asked if he would mind if a tape recorder were used for debriefing,
   he became very nervous and expressed a fear that, if such a tape vere
   made, perhaps the Soviets might gain access to it and use it against
   him in some way at a future date.

Thomas had an outline in his own handwriting of the sessions of the
Popov Society Meeting. When we asked for a photostat of same, he
again expressed misgivings and indicated that he would prefer to have
a typewritten copy prepared for us instead of a copy in his own hand-
vriting because he was fearful that it might fall into Soviet hands.

SECRET
SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET
SENSITIVE

-3-

Subject: Apparent RIS Interest in Donald E. Thomas,
Bell Laboratories

We inquired of Thomas why he had not mentioned Pavlov to us during our defensive briefing of him before his trip. He replied rather nebulously that it was his understanding that it was company policy that our oniy function in seeing him before his trip was to give him a defensive brief- ing, and that, since no debriefing was involved at the time, he felt no obligation to volunteer the information concerning Pavlov.

It is our opinion that Thomas's obvious naivite, apparent lack of sophisti- cation, and extreme apprehension concerning dealings with our Agency would make him most unsuitable from the standpoint of operational utilization by the Bureau.

8. We would strongly reccomend that all of the above be passed to the Bureau ASAP in order that that organization may effect contact with Thomas in time to provide him with proper guidance concerning any further approaches by Pavlov or other Sov legals in US.

![signature of J.J. Comma and JAY B. L. REEVES]

Eagle/mg

SECRET
SENSITIVE 10612


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

1 May 1963

SUBJECT: Coordination Outline - Donald E. Thomas, Bell Labs

FROM: New York Field Office

Following is coordination-outline for D. E. Thomas. Dr. W. O. Baker requested that Thomas be given defensive briefing by us before going behind Curtain. As you are already aware, Baker is Vice President at Bell Labs and member of President's Scientific Advisory Council and President's Intelligence Board.

1. Name: Donald Edgar Thomas
2. Date and Place of Birth: 18 May 1907, Hanover Township, Penna.
3. Home and Address: 45 Fairview Avenue, Madison, New Jersey.
4. Place of Employment and Position: Bell Labs, Murray Hill, New Jersey; Electronics Engineer.
5. Itinerary: Subject departs 3 May for Moscow to attend Popov Society meeting, 5-14 May. Following Moscow meeting he will visit labs in Western Europe for approximately one week.
6. Mission and reason for trip: Subject was invited to give paper at Popov meeting by USSR Academy of Sciences via I.E.E.E. (International Electronics and Electrical Engineers).
7. Security Status: We hold favorable FAC completion on subject dated 23 Jun 59.
8. Previous Intelligence Activities: Subject was contacted by OR/CI 1958-59 concerning info on Soviet work in his field which he acquired from contacts with Soviet scientific counterparts attending international meeting in US.
9. Relatives or close friends in denied areas: None.
10. Extent of previous trips to denied areas: None.
11. Analysis of Subject's Competence: Pa. State College, B.S., E.E., 1929; Columbia University, M.A., 1932; US Army Signal Corps, 1940-44; WEAAY, 1944-46, on radio countermeasures, 1944-45; Retired Lt. Col. USAFR; Member (Civilian) panel on Electronic Countermeasures Field Board, Dept of Defense, 1948-53.
12. Resume of personal assessment: During our limited relationship with subject, he has given every indication of being discreet, security conscious, cooperative, well motivated, mature. He is well regarded in his particular field of competence.
13. Nature of substantive briefing proposed and requirements to be levied: Subject will not be briefed on operations of any kind. No photography or incriminating note taking will be requested of him.
14. Defensive and realities briefings: Subject will receive routine defensive and Service realities briefing.
15. Funding for trip: Subject's trip will be funded by his company.
16. Briefing office and participants: Briefing will be conducted by NY/NJ New York Office personnel.
17. Coordination Deadline: 2 May 1963.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY: USSR

REPORT NO.: (XX-)

SUBJECT: Alleged House Arrest of Soviet Scientist, L. Chistovich

DATE DISTR.: July 1963

NO. PAGES: 2

DATE OF INFO.: July 63

PLACE & DATE ACQ.: July 63

REFERENCES:

(C-XX-XXXXX)

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, professor in a US university.

He is an authority on acoustics.

1. I attended the Third International Congress on Acoustics. 1-8 Sept 59, Stuttgart, West Germany.

2. While at this Congress I met a Soviet female scientist, L. Chistovich, who is connected with the Pavlov Institute of Physiology, Leningrad. One day during the Congress I took a walk in the Black Forest with L. Chistovich and another Soviet scientist. After a short time, the other Soviet scientist excused himself saying that he had to rejoin his colleagues.

3. In June 1963 Manfred Schroeder, an acoustician with Bell Telephone Laboratories, was in the USSR. On his return to the US he told me that he had heard while in the USSR that L. Chistovich, on her return from the 1959 Stuttgart Congress, had been placed under house arrest. He also said that he had seen L. Chistovich while he was in the USSR, and he had asked her whether it was true that she had been placed under house arrest on returning from the Stuttgart Congress. He said Chistovich's only reply was to blush.

4. I suspect that the individual who reported L. Chistovich to the authorities was Yuriy Pavlovich Lysanov. He is connected with the Acoustics Institute in Moscow. He publishes very little and his conduct has seemed strange to me. He was in the United States in 1956-1957. I suspect that the fact that L. Chistovich took a walk with me alone may well have been the reason she was placed under house arrest.

- end -

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

NO DISSEM ABROAD

dissemination of document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically stipulated by the originator, CID 1/9, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U.S. Government directly concerned. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS, it shall not be disseminated to organizations of affiliated with the communist bloc or to communist front organizations unless such dissemination is authorized by the originating headquarters.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

FBI report dated 22 Oct. 62 (Wash. D.C.)
Memo for Secretary, re: 470 Special Committee

FBI report dated 25 Oct. 62 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Exchange of Information Regarding
Soviet Satellite Diplomats

FBI report dated 31 Oct. 62 (N.Y., N.Y.)

FBI Memo dated 24 Jan. 63 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 24 Feb 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 21 March 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 25 April 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 24 May 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 20 June 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 22 July 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 19 Aug 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Analysis dated 4 Sept 63 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 4 Nov. 63 (Wash. D.C.)
Re: Unknown Subjects (Two); Observed Taking
Photographs in Direction of U.S. Naval
Station/Wash. D.C.

FBI Report dated 25 Nov. 63 (Wash. D.C.) filed (E) 65-63478
Re: Soviet-Bloc Intelligence Activities in U.S.

FBI Report dated 27 Dec 63 (N.Y., N.Y.)

TOP SECRET CROSS REFERENCE SHEET! (FBI Report 22 May 63)
Re: Soviet Personnel Intelligence Activities


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)