2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET - Working Paper

DRAFT

8 January 1997

Memo for the Record

Subject: "Compliance" Meeting with ARRB Staff

Date: 7 January 1997

Location: ARRB offices

Attendees: CIA: Barry Harrelson, CSI/HRG
Eileen Wukitch, DO/IMS/JFK team
ARRB: Jeremy Gunn, General Counsel
Other members of ARRB'S CIA team

Purpose: To discuss CIA's response to ARRB'S
Compliance letter dated 27 November, 1996

1. Gunn stressed that the objective of the ARRB is to assure the American public that every attempt has been made to locate JFK assassination related files/materials and that no "secret" files remained. He realizes that it is not possible for the Agency to say with certainty that all documents had been located. In the ARRB's final report, he wants to be able to say that all reasonable searches were made, and where documents were not found, ARRB staff was given appropriate access to ensure the validity of the respond.

2. Gunn divided records into three categories:

a) Sequestered records and Oswald 201 --not an issue in terms of identifying records.

b) Additional information/special requests -- official and informal. The responses should include tasking and response memos plus search strategy and files searched if appropriate. In cases of "no records" additional documentation may be required.

[Note: I have already requested the DO, etc., to provide specifics on search strategy/files searched in future responses; in most cases there should not be a problem including this information into responses to ARRB staff.)

c) Records not previously identified -- in addition to releasing HSCA records (sequestered/201 file/etc.), the ARRB seeks to ensure that all relevant files have been searched and that all assassination records (as defined today) have been identified. The ARRB staff has identified Agency components/files that they feel may contain relevant records and should be (or have been) searched. Gunn said he planned to send a formal letter listing these offices/files but wanted to discuss with HRG first.

SECRET - Working paper


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET - Working Paper

[Note: Category 3 led to a long discussion on agency records. The focus was on how the ARRB staff could be confident that files were searched.]

3. I explained that the Agency would not be able to say that all records had been located (lack of a central file system). Also it may not be possible to provide documentation that explained the disposition of 1963 records in all cases. I agreed that it would be useful to have additional briefings on the records to address their specific requests and concerns. I asked him not to send a formal request until I had the opportunity to discuss his request with C/HRG and the Directorate focal points. He agreed.

[Note: There were numerous questions on how and where -- do we have a record center in Indiana? -- the Agency stores records. Do inventories of all record at the centers exist? Are there individuals who could address specific office records and what type of records existed in 1963? ]

4. Specific Offices/Files mentioned by Gunn as part of Category 3:

DCI files for the 1958-63 timeframe; specifically chrono or subject files of John McCone
Richard Helms (chrono/subject files as DCI, DDCI and DDP.

IG
OGC
DO offices (CI, SAS, Cuba, WH/LA)
DI (OCI, other analysis and finished Intel)
TSD files on Mexico City; where was TSD in the organization
DA (what type of pay records would exist 1958-63;
Angleton's accounting records; agents' records)
OS (types of records that existed)
DS&T (U2 files)
Specific Stations - explanation of types of records maintained and disposition of those records -
Mexico City, Moscow, Helsinki), JMWave, Tokyo
Commo - types of records maintained in 1963; where are they now
DCD/00

5. Gunn also included CSI on his list of offices to be searched -- what other relevant records did we have (histories, working files, etc.) I explained that when agency components/review projects located JFK related records they were forwarded directly to HRG JFK team. We had four boxes of LA records (located in Ex Order survey),

SECRET - Working paper


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET - Working Paper

individual documents located in other project (example Bay of Pigs) or activities. The current automated declassification effort under the Ex. Order is setup to refer any assassination records to HRG/JFK team. We have not done any work on these materials since the sequestered collection and specific ARRB requests are our first priority. A discussion of the History staff's identification of the Agency's JFK collection followed. He would like more information.

## 6. Additional questions/issues raised:

Is there a "records" person at the Agency who can address their concerns?

Gunn ask if he can go to WTC and/or other Records Centers and look at shelf lists and the files around a topic of special interest?

What is on the shelf lists? Would they say, for instance, these are the files regarding JFK from Sheffield Edwards?

What are the steps taken in a name trace?

Are records around the specific hit searched?

Is it possible to provide an explanation of the routing indicators in the collection?

SECRET - Working paper


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)