# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO: 16-3

FROM: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: Operational/Meeting with KDACETONE-1

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES: 16-3

Reference: MEXICO CITY 23232

1. In accordance with a policy decision to keep DKHERALD contact with U.S. business representatives discreet, a small luncheon was held in lieu of the customary formal briefings in the Headquarters building. KDACETONE-1, IDENTITY 1, David C. HIGBY and Floyd N. AIMONET attended the luncheon which was characterized by cordiality and candor. KDACETONE-1 waited until the conclusion of the meeting to raise his current favorite subject, that of countering the leftist propaganda contained in SIEMPRE. Fortunately, HIGBY was forewarned and effectively turned around the thrust of the effort upon KDACETONE-1's shoulders, without offending him. IDENTITY impressed HIGBY with his interest, intelligence and sincerity. IDENTITY 2 to "do things" on our behalf but was convinced by HIGBY that the best way to approach the problem was through the compartmented use of individual members, rather than through IDENTITY 2 as an organization.

2. Discussions were held concerning Mexican affairs as well as Hemispheric trends. In the former category, our guests were most disturbed about the nationalization process in Mexico and enumerated

(continued)

Attachment:

IDENTITIES (USC)

Distribution:

3-COS, Mexico City (W/Att. USC)

27, 16-3

RECORD COPY.

---

Distribution:

1 - WH/1/CHRONO

1 - 201-030289

|                              |
| ---------------------------- |
| 22                           |
| HMMW-19453                   |
| SECRET                       |
| DC/WH/i Raymord J. Swiderrak |
| C/WH/1                       |

| DATE            | 11 MAY 1973    |
| --------------- | -------------- |
| MOS FILE NUMBER | 23             |
| 201-030959      |                |
| ORIGINATING     | 5/8/73         |
| TYPIST          | 9354           |
| COORDINATING    | John C. Murray |

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF.
• DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMW-19453

the latest cases with some alarm. KDACETONE-1 repeated his prediction that President ECHEVERRIA would effectively nationalize most private investment in Mexico before the end of his term.

3. The meeting was judged effective and afforded HIGBY the opportunity to lay the ground work for his future relations with IDENTITY 2 members, while satisfying the guests' need for reassurances that our goals were parallel. They appeared happy with the conversations despite the informality.

Floyd N. AIMONET

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: HMMW-19453

IDENTITY #1 - George Blake, V.P. of American Chamber of Commerce

IDENTITY #2 - American Chamber of Commerce Mexico

Alc att to HMMW-19453

SECRET
RECORD COPY

201-630999
11 MAY 73

5/RS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)