2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

11. (S) LITAMIL-9 was a CIA penetration of the Cuban Embassy. Unfortunately, his identity was indirectly and inadvertently released in 1993 and, as a result, he was identified in true name as a CIA agent in John Newman's book, *Oswald and the CIA*. As of 1993, LITAMIL-9 was still alive and living in Mexico City with family in Cuba. To date, the ARRB Board has agreed to protect his identity and crypt and delay the release of his 201 file until the Agency could make some judgments about the potential damage created by the release on additional documents with his name/crypt in them. That will now occur at the May meeting of the Board. It is, however, unlikely that the Board would agree to delay release until 2017 although there is precedent for delaying release of records on individuals for shorter periods or until death.

ISSUE 6 -- Richard Gibson (CIA Asset)

12. (S) Richard Gibson, who presently lives in England, is a left wing journalist who was associated with the Fair Play For Cuba Committee (FPFCC), an entity to which Oswald wrote letters and claimed to be a member. Gibson did not become an Agency asset until *after* the assassination; however, he had been of interest to the FBI when he headed the FPFCC. Unfortunately, a combination of previous releases led to press reports in 1994/1995 about his relationship with the CIA. At that time, CIA officers were dispatched to advise him about the possible compromise and promise him the very best attempt at protecting the relationship.

13. (S) Since then, the ARRB has agreed to delay the release of any additional information until the Agency and FBI had determined the full extent of the files on Gibson and the potential damage. The issue is scheduled for ARRB action at the May meeting and our objective is to release Gibson's role in the JFK assassination story while protecting his relationship with the Agency; however, the FBI has a four volume file which covers both FBI interest and Gibson's relationship with the Agency. We will be working in detail with the ARRB staff and the FBI on this approach.

- 5 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

## ISSUE 7 -- Certain Files of CIA Officials

14. (S) This is a major request encompassing "... the office files of the individual occupying the following positions during the period 1959-1964."

*   The Office of Deputy Director of Central Intelligence
    *   General Charles Cabell, 1953-1962
    *   General Marshall Carter, 1962-1965
*   The Office of the Deputy Director for Plans
    *   Richard Bissell, 1958-1965
    *   Richard Helms, 1962-1965
*   The chronological files of C. Tracy Barnes, 1959-1964
*   Office of General Counsel, Lawrence Houston, 1959-1964
*   Operational Diaries of William Harvey, 1962-1963.

This request will by its very breadth require significant time on the part of the directorate (and DCI) IROS. While it may appear overly broad, we have developed a methodology with the ARRB staff which provides the access required by the Board but guarantees that their review is focused. In sum, we work from shelf lists to narrow the selection and then conduct file review sessions with the ARRB staff; if material requested is particularly sensitive, access can be limited to the ARRB Executive Director or members of the Board. This effort will continue for some time.

## Conclusion

15. (AIUO) At the present time, 32 persons are involved in the JFK records review and we anticipate that this level of effort will increase to 37 by May and to 40 thereafter as we near the statutory end of the Board (30 September 1998). However, even if the Board is not extended (and it has been extended previously), there are statutory tasks for CIA which will extend 12-18 months beyond the end of the Board's existence. Your continued support is critical.

Lee S. Strickland

- 6 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues





- 7 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

13-00000

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

## Attachment 1

- 8 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

13-00000

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

Attachment 2

- 9 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

CL BY: 0611637
CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
DECL ON: X1
DRV FRM: HUM 4-82

15 May 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Lee S. Strickland @ DA
Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
William H. McNair @ DO
Becky L. Rant @ DA
Teresa Wilcox @ DST
MaryLou Cummings
Barbara T. Blufer

FROM:
J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer

OFFICE:
OIM/HRP

SUBJECT:
ARRB Meeting 13 May 1998 -- Results

REFERENCE:
Lotus note dated 8 May -- ARRB Meeting 12-13 May 1998

The JFK Board addressed six Agency issues at the 13 May meeting. The Agency's proposals prevailed in four of the six issues and one issue was tabled for further discussion. The Board made the following determinations:

1) Alias Documentation and Accommodation Addresses:

accepted our proposal to postpone release of specific information until 2017 and use generic substitute language.

2) LITAMIL-9 (CIA penetration of Cuban Embassy in Mexico City/considered a "key player" in the Oswald-Mexico City story):

agreed to continue to protect the full crypt and delay the release of additional documents (201 file) until his death. They set an annual review date on the documents; the Agency will need to advise NARA annually on his status.

(3) Richard Gibson (member of Fair Play for Cuba Committee during early 60's/considered a "key player in Oswald's story/Agency asset beginning in 1965]:

agreed protect Gibson's relationship with the Agency and designated Agency and FBI files and documents outside the JFK collection window, 1960-64, as NBRs (not believed relevant).

4) AMTRUNK Assets [AMTRUNK was an early 1960's anti-Cuban operation; most of the details of the operation including crypts have been previously released]:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

agreed to protect true name and 201 file numbers of assets not previously released.

5) Mark Lane Item [extract from foreign document]:

postponed until 4 June meeting; board would like have a member or its staff confirm the existence of the document and ensure that it contains no other JFK assassination related information.

6) Carlos Tepedino [CIA asset/ key figure in AMLASH-Cubela plot to kill Castro/true name and role in story has been publicly known for years):

voted to release his name in the 1967 IG Report on Plots Against Castro and other JFK collection documents

The Stone/Golitsyn issue was pulled from the agencd and will be addressed at the next meeting (4 June).

This was a very successful meeting from the Agency's perspective. The loss on Tepedino was not unexpected. Given what is in the public domain, the Agency has not been able to make a persuasive argument to protect his name in the three years Tepedino has been at issue. Thanks to all who assisted in preparing for the meeting, and especially to Steve White and Dick Kinsman who prepared the issue and talking point papers that carried the day.

CC:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Report to the President

June 1975

Report to the President
by the
COMMISSION ON
CIA ACTIVITIES WITHIN
THE UNITED STATES

![US Coat of Arms]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# Recommendation (27)
In accordance with its present guidelines, the CIA should not again engage in the testing of drugs on unsuspecting persons.

# Recommendation (28)
Testing of equipment for monitoring conservations should not involve unsuspecting persons living within the United States.

# B. Other Selected Activities of the Science and Technology Directorate

## 1. The Manufacture and Use of Documents
The Agency maintains a capability for producing and providing to its agents and operatives a wide range of "alias" credentials. Most such documents purport to be of foreign origin. Some, however, are documents ordinarily issued by other branches of the U.S. government or by private United States businesses and organizations.

Among the United States "alias" documents furnished from time to time to Agency personnel and operatives are Social Security cards, bank cards, professional cards, club cards, alumni association cards and library cards. The Agency has recently stopped producing alias driver's licenses, credit cards and birth certificates, unless needed in a particularly sensitive operation and approved in advance by the Deputy Director of Operations.

While the Agency does not produce false United States passports, it has in the past altered a few by the addition of entries to evidence travel which had not actually occurred.

The purpose of alias documents is to facilitate cover during CIA operations. These documents are not "backstopped," i.e., manufactured with the consent and knowledge of the company or organization whose card is being manufactured. They are useful only as flash identification. Only the Social Security Administration has been told that the Agency is manufacturing its cards.

The Commission found no evidence that any Agency employee has ever used false documentation of this kind to his personal advantage.

# Conclusions
Alias credentials are necessary to facilitate CIA covert operations overseas, but the strictest controls and accountability must be main-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

13-00000

SECRET

Alias Documentation, pii

OIM 98-00044
13 April 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Executive Director

VIA:
Director of Information Management

FROM:
Lee S. Strickland
Chief, Information Review Group/OIM

SUBJECT:
Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

1. (AIUO) Per your request at our 1 April bi-weekly meeting, we have summarized below the significant issues which are under deliberation and negotiation with the JFK Board. Our approach on protecting Agency equities is multi-step:

*   First, with the staff, we argue relevance although the statute and implementing regulations define "assassination records" very broadly as including

*   any records related to the assassination or Oswald,

*   any records concerning the various conspiracy theories, and

*   any records within the scope of previous investigations including the Church Committee, Pike Committee, Warren Commission, or House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA),[^1]

*   Second, with the staff, we argue that release would cause current damage although the exemptions under the JFK statute are much narrower than the corresponding exemptions under the FOIA, and

*   Third, if we fail to convince the staff, we must proceed to a more detailed and formal presentation to the Board.

[^1]: (AIUO) It is the materials collected by the HSCA which are the most numerous and often the most troublesome in terms of sensitive equities. They are generally referred to as the "sequestered collection."

SECRET

CL BY: 0219849
CL REASON: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FROM: Multiple


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

## ISSUE 1 -- Unacknowledged Covert Actions

2. (S) Within records surfaced by the Ford Library is a document -- a Helms Memorandum for the Record on a PFIAB meeting which contains references to CIA covert financial support to political parties in Peru, Greece, Italy and Brazil and to labor unions in France and Italy.[^2]

3. (S) After much negotiation, the ARRB staff has agreed to recommend to the Board that the information related to those covert actions be considered non-related and the documents designated "Not Believed Related" (NBR). The document will be grouped with similar “NBR" documents and be presented to the Board for final action at the 13 April or 12 May meeting.

## ISSUE 2 -- Alias Documentation and Accommodation Addresses

4. (S) The CIA security file of former Agency employee, David Morales (deceased -- true name already released), within the sequestered collection contains documentation on five of his alias.[^3] We anticipate similar problems as we re-review other security files within the sequestered collection. We are considering a compromise with the following elements:

*   protect all references to official documents reflecting the alias such as social security cards, drivers licenses,
*   release items designated as pocket litter such as club cards,
*   protect elements of accommodation addresses to avoid identifying specific locations, and
*   lastly, make a decision to actually release or protect the alias itself depending on the timeframe and its importance to the JFK story.

5. (S) However, disagreements on the actual implementation (e.g., protect house number but release street name of accommodation address) have prevented a final resolution at this

[^2]: (S) See Attachment 1.

[^3]: (S) See Attachment 2.

- 2 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

time. We are also exploring with the DO senior management whether the blanket release of pocket litter (whether *lawfully obtained or forged*) might present media or operational issues today. Accordingly, we have requested that the issue be postponed until the May meeting.

ISSUE 3 -- Organizational Materials

6. (S) This request (one of the earliest and known as CIA-1) asked for organization charts on various Agency directorates and/or components for the years 1958-1968. All Agency directorates provided material responsive to the request and the ARRB staff has selected items for inclusion in the JFK collection. Remaining at issue are three DO charts -- a 1961 generic DDP organization, a 1963 generic DDP organization, and a detailed JMWAVE organization. The DO has agreed to release the first two and remain adamantly opposed to the release of the JMWAVE chart given its similarity to current organizational plans.

7. (S) This issue will be presented by ARRB staff to the Board at the 13 April meeting where they will recommend that the DDP generic charts be accepted (good for CIA) and that the JMWAVE chart be declared as an assassination record (bad for CIA); an actual vote by the Board will not take place until the May meeting.

ISSUE 4 -- Mexico City Tapes

8. (S) This request asked for a thorough search of Agency files and documents for and CIA "... surveillance 'take' from Cuban and Soviet facilities in Mexico City at the time of the Oswald visit and in the immediate wake of the assassination." Among the items provided by the DO were five boxes containing audio tapes from telephone taps on the Cuban and Russian embassies and facilities. A number of the tapes are dated

[^4]

[^4]: (S) See Attachment 3.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

SUBJECT: Pending ARRB (JFK Board) Issues

22 November 1963; many others are dated 23 November 1963 through December 1963.[^5]

9. (S) This is one of the most complex requests because of the following facts:

*   at one time, there was a tape of Oswald in existence but it has since been lost or erased;
*   the relevance of these tapes is argued even though they do not contain the Oswald conversation;[^6]
*   this was not an unilateral operation but rather a joint operation with the Mexican Government;
*   there is a confidential request from the ARRB to the Mexican Government for any copies of the actual Oswald conversation they may possess; and,
*   quite obviously, the sensitivity is not so much the mere fact that we possess such tapes but our release of the extent and actual conversations captured.

10. (S) The good news, at least at this time, is that the ARRB staff has agreed to postpone Board consideration until May and, in the interim, the Agency will have an opportunity to review (i.e., listen and transcribe) and determine the sensitivity and provide detailed arguments in this regard.

ISSUE 5 -- Protection of LITAMIL-9

[^5]: (S) The scope of this request is quite significant; it includes five boxes of 185 tapes from operations against both the Cuban and Russian Embassy.

[^6]: (S) The ARRB staff position on the relevance of the tapes has three forms: There could be conversations about Oswald and/or the assassination on the 22 Nov + tapes which could give clues to Oswald's visit to Mexico City on 25 September - 3 October. The absence of any conversation about Oswald or the assassination would itself be of historical interest. Or, there are transcripts of intercepted telephone conversations that mention the assassination in the collection and, thus, by definition, the tapes are assassination records.

- 4 -

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)