# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-1572375 SENSIND:

/ / SECRET FRP: , , , , , ,

STAFF

CONF: CIC/LA INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGLA, CIDORECORD,
LA/COGEO, LA/COGRR, LA/SAGAO, LA/SAGSC, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA,
DC/LA (3/P)

95 1572375 ASR PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 433207
TOT: 052050Z SEP 95

SECRET 052052Z DIRECTOR 433207

STAFF

TO: LIMA INFO HAVANA, SAO PAULO, BRASILIA.

FROM: LIMIT CIC/LA INFO LA/COGEO, LA/SAGAO, LA/SCGBRAB, LA/COGRR

SLUGS: WNINTEL REAM

*SUBJECT: CUBAN 'AFFIRMATION' OF CIA PLOT AGAINST<JFK>

REF: LIMA 36844 95 1542936 (RELAYED HAVANA)

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: SEE BELOW.

2. THANK YOU FOR ALERTING US TO REF ARTICLE. WE BELIEVE YOU
   ARE SEEING THE FIRST INDICATION OF A POSSIBLY MAJOR CUBAN ACTIVE
   MEASURES CAMPAIGN. THE CONFERENCE IN QUESTION WAS/IS ATTENDED BY,
   IN ADDITION TO ESCALANTE, A CUBAN CI OFFICER WHO PLAYED A
   SIGNIFICANT ROLE IN THE CUBAN SPONSORED CUBAN MISSILE CRISIS
   CONFERENCES OF 1992-93, AND CLAIMED A PRIMARY ROLE IN DEBRIEFING
   CIA CUBAN AGENTS IN THE 60'S, SEVERAL US CITIZEN 'INVESTIGATORS'
   ACTIVE IN PROMOTING VARIOUS CONJECTURES REGARDING CIA'S ROLE IN
   *THE<JFK ASSASSINATION.>

3. IN VIEW OF THIS, PLEASE FORWARD TEXT OF ARTICLE AND
   AUTHOR'S BYLINE, AS HE IS POSSIBLY A CUBAN ACTIVE MEASURES ASSET.
   PLEASE INCLUDE HAVANA ON FURTHER MESSAGES THIS TOPIC.

4. FILE: 010-009-013. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>

RELNO: E235319

ORIG: CIC/LA (MAHNCKE, 34428); AUTH: CIC/LA (MARQUES); COORD:
LA/COG (MERTZ), LA/SAGAO; REL: LA/SAGAO (OSTH). CL BY 187203.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)