# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

SBSR-843

23 February 1973

# CI INFORMATION REPORT

SUBJECT: Anatoliy Mikhaylovich GOLITSYN

SOURCE: AESMASH

REFERENCE: SBSR-547

DISSEMINATION
CONTROLS: Any further dissemination must be coordinated with C/SB/CI/P.

COMMENTS: Attached are SB requirements based on Reference, and a report containing Source's reply to those recirements.

ORIGINATOR: Frank McNulty, SB/CI/P

DISTRIBUTION:

2 - IP/AN/SB for 746-756/4
x-ref to 201-294855-
2 - SB/CI/P 201-079755
1 - SS/CI/I
1 - SS/CI/X
1 - SB/CI/R
1 - SS/COPS
1 - C/CI/OPS
1 - SB/10
1 - S5/1/USSR

1 - SB/XO
1 - SB/X/EUR
1 - SB/RIS
1- EUR/SC

SECRET

CONTENTS CLASSIFIED BY OSS348


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

Requirements on Remaining: Source Remorts

Anatoliy Mihaylovich GOLITSYN & KILMOV

05

[TEPLYAKOVA] did not in fact meet GOLITSYNA as previously stated but only knew of her and GOLITSYN from her parents.

2. Source is quite clear about GOLUBEV's instructions and had not confused the names of GOLITSYN and KOSHKO. GOLUBEV had been sent a directive from Moscow setting out his main tasks. This was couched in somewhat rough, direct words in order to put him on the right lines. Source did not deduce from what was in this directive that the K.G.B. believed that either man was living in England. It certainly stated that NOSENKO had visited England after his defection and that GOLITSYN had visited England several times. Source knows only what GOLUBEV told him and what was in the directive; he has no idea why the K.G.B. believed that either of the two defectors had visited the U.K.

SECRET

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING

1/BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Para. 1: It is stated here that Source's companion, while visiting her parents in [Helsinki], heard GOLITSYN's story (presumably this means his defection) and also met his wife. The word order implies that she met Mrs. GOLITSYN after hearing about the defection, but this could not be, since Mrs. GOLITSYN defected with her husband. Please clarify this and give details of the GOLITSYN story she heard. What were the dates of her visit to Helsinki?

Para. 3-b: The wording of this paragraph is almost identical to much of paragraph 3-b of Source's report on Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO, regarding GOLITSYN's instructions, KGB belief that both defectors had visited England, etc. The main difference as given in these reports is that NOSENKO is said to have been in the US in 1965, and GOLITSYN "several times". Since NOSENKO did not visit the US in 1965 but we understand that GOLITSYN did make several visits, we wonder (in view of the strong similarities in wording) if there may be a garble in Source's reporting. Does Source have any idea as to why the KGB believed either of the two defectors had visited the US?

SECRET
7


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)