104-10096-10048 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

150076
DATE

WALLER

BRECKINRIDGE

Leader (keep copy for our Task Force File)

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

RETURN TO: Hannah For File
SSCI

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ ERNAL
ONLY ☐ CONCENTIAL ☐ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O
2 D 0109

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. SA/DO/O

2. 
3. IG

4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
EXTENSION NO.
1542 DATE 12 October 1976

DATE OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED FORWARDED

12/10/76

13
Oct.
76


APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS ☐ SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ INTERNAL ☐ UNCLASSIFIED
3-62: EDITIONS USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

INSPECTOR GENERAL
76-3127

12 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

FROM : Philip F. Fendig
SA/DO/O

SUBJECT : Senate Select Committee on Intelligence
Request for Office of Security File
Material

1. We appreciate the opportunity to review certain OS file material containing DDO information prior to its being sterilized for passing to the SSCI in response to their request.

2. We have reviewed the material listed in the annex, and our recommendations for passing are included thereon.

3. To confirm our understanding resulting from the meeting in the Legislative Counsel's office on 29 September 1976, with the IG, D/IG, D/SEC, SA/DO/O, LC and A/LC present, hereafter no DDO material held in OS files will be made available for review by House or Senate Committee staff members prior to clearance from this Directorate.

(signed)
Philip F. Fendig
Philip F. Fendig

att

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

ANNEX to SA/DO/O Memorandum, 12 October 1976

SUBJECT: SSCI Request for OS File Material

1. From the STURGIS file:

   a. C/SAS memo, 18 February 1964, to D/SEC
   Subject: Interviews by 00/C with West Point
   Cadet, Douglas K. Gentzkow

   b. 00A(S) 3,289,019, 22 January 1964
   Subject: Douglas K. Gentzkow

   c. 00A(S) 3,287,344, 7 January 1964
   Subject: Douglas K. Gentzkow

   d. Cable: (Guatemala City) 19536 (IN 944357),
   25 June 1976

None of the above or any part may be passed on the grounds of protection of sensitive sources and methods. We also wish to observe for the record that per page 252 of the Rockefeller Commission Report (June 1975), Sturgis testified that he "was not an employee or agent of the CIA either in 1963 or at any other time."

2. From Alexander RORKE file:

   a. Identical to item 1.b: above.

   b. Identical to item 1.c. above.

   c. Unreadable card apparently listing extracts from DBF 44345 and DBF 45113, 11 March 1960 and 23 March 1960.

   d. Letter from Alexander Rorke to Senator Thomas J. Dodd, August 24, (year undecipherable).

Items a and b or any part thereof should not be passed (see para 1 above). Item c appears to be FBI information (third agency rule prohibition). Item d is not DDO material. Defer to OS.

3. From MOSS file:

   Memorandum from FIOB/SRS to DC/SRS, 14 May 1973
   Subject: MOSS, Edward K.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

This memorandum appears to contain mostly FBI material (third agency rule prohibition). If clearance is obtained, please delete the first paragraph under sources and methods protection.

4. From ROTHMAN file:

Memorandum for the Record, 25 April 1975.
Subject: ROTHMAN, Norman

No objection to passing.

5. From SOCARRAS file:

Memo from C/SSO to D/OS, undated
Subject: DOCARRAS, Carlos Prio

We concur with the OS position not to make this memo available and we cite sensitive sources and methods protection.

6. From MACEO (MACKLE), Antonio Jaime, Dr.), file:

a. Director OS memo to FBI, 23 February 1961
Subject: (Antonio Jaime Maceo Mackle,
Project Zenith

b. Memorandum for the File from C/AAS/OS
Subject (multiple): (MACEO, Mackle,
Antonio Jaime) i.a.

c. Memorandum for the File, (Massett) OS/AAS
Subject (multiple): as b above (i.a.)

d. Letter to Commissioner, I&NS from D/OS, 28 February 1961
Subject: (see list attached - listing more or less 60 agents)

e. Memorandum For: C/WH from DDOS (I&OS), 3 March 1961
Subject: (S-11386)

f. Bio Data Sheet, #220775, 15 November 1960
Subject: Maceo (Mackle), Antonio Jaime, Dr.)

None of the memoranda should be made available as they contain operational information on sensitive sources and methods.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

7. File on Artime Buesa

a. Memorandum for the Record, 21 February 1975
Subject: Artime-Buesa, Manuel F.

b. Identity List, undated, Case #210838,
Artime-Buesa

c. Memorandum from C/SAS, SAS 63-369, undated
Subject: Request for Technical Support

d. Memorandum For: C/PSD/OS from C/OSD/OS,
28 May 1965
Subject: Artime-Buesa, Manuel F.

e. Memorandum For: C/WH from DDOS/IOS, 28 May 1965
Subject: Use of Sterile Answering Service,
#21-0838

f. Memorandum For: D/OS from C/SAS, 3 February 1964
Subject: (Nicaraguan) Passports Issued to
Manuel Artime and Rafael Ovintero

g. Letter from D/OS to Commissioner I&NS,
14 October 1963
Subject: Manuel F. Artime-Buesa (multiple
subject, i.a.)

h. PRQ I, signed by Manuel I. Artime, undated

i. Memorandum from C/WH to D/OS (AAB), 19 January 1960
Subject: Request for Assistance in the Cases
of Manuel Francis Artime-Buesa
(multiple subject, i.a.)

We concur with the OS position not to make items a through g
and item i available under the requirement for protection of
sources and methods. Regarding item h, under the protection
of sources and methods, please delete paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 21, 22, 23, 24, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32,
33, 34, 36, 37, 38, 40. The remainder of the item may be
made available to the SSCI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

8. From VARONA file:

a. Memorandum For: OS/AAS from WH/4/Political
Action, 14 June 1960
Subject: Planned Travel Outside United States
of JMARC Members in Miami

b. Memorandum for the File, from C/AAS/OS, 27 March 1961
Subject: Dr. Manuel Antonio de Varona Loredo
(multiple subject, i.a.)

c. Memorandum for the File, from AAS Officer/OS,
14 February 1961
Subject: Varona Loredo, Antonio - SP 504
(multiple subject, i.a.)

We concur with the OS position to delete the names circled
both in red and blue. This will confirm oral notification
to Mr. Hunt of your office on 5 October 1976.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)