# Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Deputy Chief, Special Security Division DATE: 21 October 1953

FROM: Chief, Special Referral Branch

SUBJECT: HIDALGO, Jr., Balmes Nieves
#65077

1. Reference is made to your memorandum, dated 16 October 1953, in which it was requested that appropriate inquiries be made to ascertain the answers to the following questions.

a. Can BALMES be made available for testimony before the Subversive Activities Control Board in the United States.

b. If the answer to question "a" is in the negative, can the FBI interview BALMES wherever he may be outside the United States.

c. Or can questions to be answered by BALMES be submitted to CIA for transmittal to BALMES and the answers given by BALMES be sent back to the FBI, via CIA.

2. On 21 October 1953 Mr. (William B. CALDWELL), Chief, WH/FI was interviewed in his office. Mr. (CALDWELL) advised that the Subject was presently a Contract Employee whose services are being utilized in (Panama) under the Travel Control Project. He stated that Subject has been overseas for approximately one and a half years and that his contract period will probably expire within six months. He advised that in answer to question "a", Subject can be made available for testimony before the Subversive Activities Control Board in the United States if necessary. He stated that Subject's position was not such that he was indispensable to the Project and that if it was absolutely necessary, he could be recalled to the United States within twenty-four hours. In reference to question "b", Mr. (CALDWELL) advised that there was no reason why the Subject could not be interviewed by the FBI at his place of duty. In reference to question "c", Mr. (CALDWELL) reported that this was the most desirable alternative and that he would prefer the questions to be answered by Subject be submitted to CIA for transmittal to Subject and that the answers would be returned to the FBI, via this Agency.

3. On 21 October 1953 Miss (Helen POINDEXTER) of Staff C reviewed her records and determined that Subject's true name is identical to the captioned Subject and not as shown in your memorandum of 16 October 1953.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4. In view of the above, no further investigation is contemplated by this office unless advised to the contrary.

McGRATH/mla
10/21/53

Charles W. Kane

03. informed My. papich today of the position. Mr. (Caldwell) told Mr. Papich that serge t could be done. The necessary, that that he would contact at his sent when je prisime & '1 min wer, in the went onyou, the gulalation, i rement subject to be necessary, the gulation symment subject to would be to the extent

- 2 -

![SECTET Security Information]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)