# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title
18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Julian NOVAS Fernandez

REPORT NO. CSCI-316/00699-64

DATE DISTR. 27 August 1964

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1964
INFO.
PLACE & Washington, D. C.
DATE ACQ. August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION, SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence
Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality
information provided by the source and includes supplemental
information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of
the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without
first checking with this Agency.

Source was shown a photograph of Julian NOVAS Fernandez
and source identified him as a Cuban intelligence Officer.
Source saw NOVAS at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City in
March 1964 and assumed he was a functionary there. [^1] [^2] [^3] [^4] [^5]

Headquarters Comments

1. Although source saw Julian NOVAS Fernandez at the Cuban
   Embassy in Mexico City in March 1964, the records of this
   Agency reveal that source was probably in error in
   assuming that NOVAS was assigned to that Embassy and
   it is more likely that he was just passing through.
   The following traces by this Agency is the basis for
   this conclusion.

[^2][^4]

2. An official Jamaican source, in a report dated 24 March 1964,
   stated that Julian NOVAS Fernandez arrived in Kingston,
   Jamaica, on 18 March 1964, to take up his duties at the
   Cuban Consulate in Kingston as Commercial Attache. Source
   said that NOVAS has the appearance of an American and
   speaks excellent English. Since his arrival he has been
   especially occupied with girls. It should be noted that

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

| STATE        | DIA      | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | DXXS | OCR | FBI 2 |
| ------------ | -------- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | ---- | --- | ----- |
| REP CINCLANT | CINCSO # | I&NS |      |     |     |      |     |       |

Note: Field distribution indicated by "#".


|                   |                         |                      |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| /SA/FOR V         | 1 CI/LIA LTE CANADA1 V  | LX-1645              |
| /SA/NOR 4 WE/IADR | 2 CI/RSA B LE BRITISH U | CSCI-316/00399-64    |
| /SA/R             | L/ASH D1 14             | NO PROJECT (AMMUG/1) |
| /SA/CI V          | RIDAAN                  |                      |


16 MAR 1965 /SA 7 (1), EE 1 (2), CI 4 , RID 1 LIAISON * COORDINATING RELEASING MK:LD:swk CI/RC:s

201-747936


[^1]: 1
[^2]: 2
[^3]: 3
[^4]: 4
[^5]: 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

His wife did not accompany him and source speculated that her arrival may be delayed in view of NOVAS' present inclination for feminine diversion.

3.  In a report dated March 1964, this same source said that Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the Cuban Commercial Attache at the Cuban Consulate in Kingston, Jamaica, was born on 2 September 1938, in Habana, Cuba. He carried diplomatic passport D/64/50 which was issued in Habana on 20 February 1964. His home address was given as Carman No. 18, Vibora. He arrived in Kingston from Mexico on 18 March 1964, on Mexicana Flight Number 305.

4.  This same source, in a report dated 28 April 1964, stated that the wife of Julian NOVAS Fernandez, the recently arrived Cuban Commercial Attache, arrived in Kingston on 22 April 1964, via Mexico. Her name is Amarilis Karta VALDES Hijuelos and she was born on 19 May 1937, in Jiquani, Oriente, Cuba. VALDES has been indisposed since her arrival in Kingston; this is probably due to her advanced pregnancy. Her home address in Cuba is Avenida 31, Number 3622, Habana. She carried diplomatic passport D/01/239, issued in Habana on 9 April 1964.

5.  This same source, in a report dated 9 May 1964, noted that the salary and allowances of the new Cuban Commercial Attache, Julian NOVAS Fernandez, suggests that he is the new Cuban Intelligence Service chief in Jamaica, succeeding Gerardo SANCHEZ Robert.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)