# DISPATCH

TO: Acting Chief, WE

INFO: Chief, Task Force W

FROM: Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT: Resistance Activity in Cuba

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: ACTION: FYI

The following information was provided by Francisco Luis Rodrigues Gonzales (CC-1169), a Cuban refugee who arrived in Spain in early August 1962 and had been active in the Revolutionary Student Directorate, an anti-Government resistance group, while in Cuba.

a. Source has been opposed to the Castro regime ever since the defection of Diaz Lanz in May 1959, and was involved in sabotage activity with the Revolutionary Student Directorate. His immediate supervisor was Angel Fontanills known as "Charles" in clandestine circles. Alberto Muller, the leader of this group, arrived clandestinely in Cuba in October or November 1960 and began to organize the various groups of irectorate to bring about an insurrection in the Sieren Maestra area, in Oriente Frovince. These groups were mainly from the provinces of Las Villas and Havana, and received orders to unite with Muller who was already in the Sieyra Maestra. The men went there in small groups, and had the seminary in the Santuario del Cobre as their destination. Once in that spot, they received final instructions and military equipment. Source's group, which consisted of two carloads, entered the Sierra Maestra through Bayamo. Source was riding in the first car. When they arrived on the outskirts of Bayamo, source's car was stopped by the militia, but the car was allowed to pass without any check. A few minutes later they realized that they were being: followed and tried to escape. An alarm and shots went up, and they were finally captured and taken prisoner. The second car, which was following close behind them and was warned by the shots, was able to escape.

b. The prisoners were taken first to G-2 Headquarters in Santiago de Cuba and later to the Boniato Prison, where they were interrogated by the G-2. There were two American prisoners there, and although source did not know their names, he said that they were from the Guantanamo Naval Base.

c. Muller was taken prisoner a few days later (shortly after the ill-fated invasion of Playa Giron). No arms were taken from him when he was arrested. Had this insurrection been successful, about 1,000 men would have risen up.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

**CLASSIFICATION**
SECRET

**DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER**
OSLA-14,272

d. Of the buller group, which was called the "127", about 60 prisoners were taken, five of whom, including source, were set free. One of these was an infiltrator called Flores, whom no one trusted since they knew that he was not "one of the group." Another of these was Rolando Valdés D'Wolf who is now in prison in the Fortaleza de la Cabaña serving a nine-year sentence. He was captured trying to escape in a car belonging to a militiaman and wearing a militia uniform. He defended himself bravely, but received five bullet wounds which incapacitated him. The other two who were released were Eduardo Díaz Lanz and Jorge Cruz Peña, a sergeant in the Rebel Army who was with Castro in the Sierra. The latter had actually not been involved in the group. Source thought that he (source) and Díaz Lanz were released so that they might be followed and lead the Government to other groups and individuals in Havana who might be involved in resistance activity. Source had been in prison six months before being released, and one thing which he could not explain was that on the paper that he was given which indicated his release, no mention was made of any sentence or penalty.

e. On several occasions, Muller had been subjected to false execution procedures, with the purpose of trying to make him talk, but he did not weaken. During the trial, "everyone remained firm," and zource was told that Muller was very bravo in his pronouncements against the Regime and, at every moment, abided by his principles. He presented a very brilliant self-defense..

f. When source was in the Boniato prison, he shared a cell with a Captain Anibal Rodriguez, who belonged to the MRR. This officer, along with other rebel officers and soldiers, had staged an uprising in Imias, in Oriente Province. Later he was sentenced to death and shot.

g. During his last days in Cuba, source avoided all revolutionary activity, since he wanted to leave Cuba more than anything else. However he knew that the various resistance groups worked hard, carrying out a great deal of independent sabotage activity, although there was not much coordination among the various movements. One movement which had a large membership, especially in Orienta Province, was the N-30-II. This group was planning to launch an insurrection in Pinar del Rio in January 1962, but they could not carry it out since the repression in the area was so great..

h. Hans, a member of the Revolutionary Student Directorate, was recently taken prisoner, and it seemed that he was tortured a great deal and talked. As a result of this, a house in Wajay, in Havana Province, was seized and arms and gelatina were found. The owners of the house and other persons were arrested.

Attachments Spanish report - 1

Distributions:
2 - AC/WE, w/att.
2 - C/TFW

![Signature of Helen B. Caporla]
Helen B. Caporla

PCH


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)