# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

25 October 1965

MEMORANDUM

TO: Chief, Training Br
WCY-1066

DISTRIBUTION:

1 - TR

1 - REG

FROM: Chief, Cover Er

1 - 201-262136

1 - 201-300985

SUBJECT: Cover for Luis POSADA Carriles and Alberto de Jesus ALBERTY Garcia
2 - Cov

REFERENCE: Memo from C/Tr to C/Cov dtd 17 Sept 1965, Subj: Action & Status Cover for Subjects

1. In accordance with the request contained in Reference, action and status cover with Tri-State Engineering Service, Inc. has been arranged for Subjects.

2. Luis POSADA will be acknowledged as a Technical Supervisor at a salary of $400 per month. This employment will be acknowledged as of 1 September 1965.

3. Alberto ALBERTY will be acknowledged as a Technician/ Instructor at a salary of $495 per month. This employment will be effective 13 September 1965. Mr. Alberty's previous employment with Radio & Electronics Equipment Company is terminated as of 10 September 1965.

4. Tri-State Engineering Service, Inc. is located at 800 First National Bank Bldg., Miami 32, Fla. The local mailing address is P.O, Box 3737, Micmi 1, Fla. The telephone number is 377-0088 (cover phone located in Cover Branch.) Mr. Peter T. Vay is President of the firm. The firm is engaged in the general practice of engineering in all its branches with particular emphasis in the fields of Marine engineering, including marine salvage, underwater research, underwater communications, underwater demolition, and off-shore petroleum and mineral exploration and development.

5. It is requested that the Case Officer brief Neesra. Alberty and Posado on the cover story as outlined in paragraph 4 above, A copy of this memorandum is attached for inclusion in the individual's 201 files.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)