# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

ADDENDUM TO JOURNAL

OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL

Thursday - 6 July 1978

1. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Accompanied Scott Breckinridge, Special Coordinator for the House Select Committee on Assassinations, OLC, and Rodger Gabrielson, OLC, to brief Thomas K. Latimer, Staff Director, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, on the state of play as between the House Select Committee on Assassinations and the Agency. Mr. Latimer immediately understood that the crux of the problem lay in the House Select Committee on Assassinations possible exposure of sensitive information (Nosenko and/or Mexico operations) in open fora. He said that he would brief Chairman Edward P. Boland (D., Mass.), House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and that the latter might discuss the matter with Chairman Louis Stokes (D., Ohio), House Select Committee on Assassinations. He suggested that the best approach would be for the DCI to raise the issues we were concerned about with Chairman Stokes and, then, if necessary with the President. The latter in turn could register his concerns with Speaker of the House Thomas P. O'Neill. Mr. Latimer said that the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence charter precluded the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence from playing a significant role in this matter.

2. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Spencer Davis, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who asked for the phone number of former Agency employee Newton S. Miler, as one of the Committee staff members wanted to interview him. June, O/PCS/LOC/DDO, subsequently called Miler and, in his absence, left a message that he call Davis. I informed Davis this was how we had handled his request and he was satisfied.

I also explained to Davis the Agency's position, regarding retired Agency employee (Raymond Close), who was Chief of Station Saudi Arabia and upon retiring took a position as a consultant to the Saudi Government. Our position is that as (Close) has retired, the Agency has no control over his activities other than through his secrecy agreement which he signed and which remains in effect. Davis also asked me if the same situation was true for a former Chief of Station in [Amman] and I said I would check.

INTERNAL USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)