104-10183-10346 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFIC ON TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | #   | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
|     | 1   | Jack Siyun       | 3/23 | JF.      |
|     | 2   | He Swenson       |      |          |
|     | 3   |                  |      |          |
|     | 4   |                  |      |          |
|     | 5   |                  |      |          |
|     | 6   |                  |      |          |

| ACTION      |     | DIRECT REPLY |     | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | --- | ------------ | --- | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    |     | DISPATCH     |     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     |     | FILE         |     | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE |     | INFORMATION  |     | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

F/1

I've been asked to bring

nasty and medation plite.

Exford to like to cartoonth

Not Partigate - would like to talk to

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM NO. 2-61 237 Use previous editions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Training

ATTENTION: Chief, Covert Training/OS/TH

SUBJECT: Covert Training for member of [CIWOOD] organization

REFERENCE: Proposed Training Curriculum for [CIWOOD] Trainees From CC/OS/TH

1.  It is requested that covert training be given to the [CIWOOD] trainees listed below for the period of 8 March - 30 April 1965. This will be the second group of [CIWOOD] trainees under this program which was initiated by the Venezuelan Desk of Branch Three of II Division through 03Mr. Rawleigh Taylor, Chief, Covert Training, in September 1967. The first group has been given an 8 weeks covert course ending on 26 February 1965. The trainees will be in Washington under the notional cover of "participating in military training courses" or possibly a "purchasing mission" for their Government. As such, they will not be formal liaison visitors and will not be expected to enter Headquarters buildings, except for one day training in the R & S Building, or to meet Agency officials.

2.  Project [CIWOOD] is a Caracas Station Liaison activity which has as its objectives the establishment of a Liaison relationship with the Venezuelan Armed Forces Intelligence Service, (SIFA) to permit CIA to improve the efficiency and capabilities of SIFA and to Provide CIA access to its intelligence take, and to eventually recruit a member of SIFA. Jacob B. HUNSCHWOOD, a Staff Agent under non-official cover in Curacao, is providing advice and guidance to SIFA and is obtaining intelligence information in return. It is believed that covert training can help improve the efficiency and


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

-2-

24
Interual security or of SITA which will enable this organization to more effectively combat the extremist guerrilla and terrorist activity formented by the Communist Party of Venezuela with aid and encouragement from Cuba. Venezuela is getting maximum attention from Castro in his effort to bring about communist take-over in Latin America. Besides the inherent value of the training itself, the creating of the training will help improve his daily operational association with SITA and enhance his opportunity of making a successful recruitment in the future. Orientation in Counter Insurgency is also being included to give officials
24
a greater awareness of the problem and thus to lay the ground work for future work in this field.

3.  The responsible desk operations officer for this course will be Mr. William E. Cavan, who will be known to the trainees as "Bill Cabal", the same identity he used with the first group. An Agency serviced telephone number, 636-3120 has been arranged and will be given to the trainees as a number where "Bill Cabal" can be reached in an emergency. This number is serviced 24 hours a day and Mr. Cavan is immediately notified to call the persons who asked for him at that number. Mr. Cavan is located in room 382613 of Headquarters Building, extension 4521.

4.  The following is pertinent biographic data on the trainees:

a. Lt. Colonel Mario PALANDO Lobato

DPOB: La Guaira, Venezuela, 25 September 1923

Marital Status: Married 9 April 1949. Has three small children.

Formal Education: High School, Caracas (dates unknown). A graduate of the Venezuelan Military Academy in 1950. Attended the Infantry School at Fort Benning, Georgia, in 1950 and studied English at American University. In 1961 be attended the Argentine Army School of War for approximately 12 months.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

-3-

Language Ability: Spanish and some English. (English listed as "fair")

Present Status: Chief of Administration

Area knowledge: Has visited the USA and Argentina

Previous Intelligence Training: None indicated, but has probably had some intelligence training either in the Venezuelan Army or his Argentina course.

Other: HURSCHWOOD considers Sujardo as potential for reoruition return to Venezuela and suggests he be given special attention.

b. Major Luis Alfonso OCHOA

DPOB: 9 September 1928, Las Mantas, State of Bolivar, Venezuela.

Marital Status: Married 1962, has 5 small children

Formal Education: High School, Caracas 1946-1950. Entered the Venezuelan military service in 1948 and has taken intermediate and advanced courses in the Venezuelan Infantry School. He has commanded rifle platoons and infantry companies and has been an instructor in the Infantry School of the Venezuelan Army.

Language Ability: Only native Spanish

Present Status: SPA official; exact title not indicated.

Previous Intelligence Training: not indicated

c. Lt. Colonel Raul JIMENEZ Gainza

DPOB: 16 December 1932, San Felipe, State of Yaracuy, Venezuela

Martial Status: Married - wife is Matilda Abreu de Jimenez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

-4-

Formal Education: Not listed, but probably a graduate of the Venezuelan 08 Military Academy.

Language Ability: Not indicated.

Present Status: Deputy Director of SIFA 08

Previous Intelligence Training: Not indicated

Area Knowledge: Not indicated.

Other: Jimenez 06 has recently been named Deputy 08 Director of SIFA and should be given deference as the leader of the group.

d. Lt. Colonel Solis Antonio MARTINEZ 06

DOB: 3 August 1926, San Luis, State of Falcon, 08 Venezuela

Marital Status: Married, three children

Formal Education: High School, Caracas, 10 1940-1944; Venezuela Military Academy 1944-1947 (graduate). Also completed specialized courses in Infantry 08 Tactics and Tank Warfare, as well as the course of study given by the Superior War College of the 08 Venezuelan Ministry of War. He has served in a variety of capacities within the Venezuelan 08 Army since 1947, commanding everything from platoons through battalions, as well as instructor 08 of artillery. He has seen action against the guerrillas in the 10 State of Falcon. He served in 08 Colombia, dates unknown, as a member of the Venezuelan mission to "Operation America". 08

Language Ability: Native Spanish, reads but does not speak or write English. His competence in understanding English is given as "fair".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

-6-

Aroa nuowledgo: Subject's ouly travel outside of Venezuela was to Colombia.

Irevious lutelligenco Training: None indicated but probably has had souo intelligonco training during his litary 08 Ogaroor.

Other: He is Cilof of Investigations of the 29 FA and vni probably return to this position. It it is jomalble that he is aware of Station's police liaison with Venezuelas political police (DIGEPOL), without knowing the details of the Folationship.

POA's for trufuing have been granted for Fajardo and Fart tuez and are pending for Clound Jigone61t in auswed that the trainees are aware of the Agency affiliation of HOURSCHWOO and that the training will be conducted by CIA. The Director of SIF is aware of HURSCINWOOD CIA asasoiation and was also received by the DCI on 21 July 1964 during a visit to the U.S.

6. Training Requirements: The training should be hold iu a safehouse, conducted in Spanish and on a full Live basis. The suggested dates are frow & March through 30 April 1965, which have boen approved by Chiof, Covert Training, os/Th. The traduces will use uctional military training cover during the training period, and it is not anticipated they will ontor Headquarters building. They will be taken tuto the It & S Tuilding for a ouo-day indoctrination in Seals and Flaps and Audio Survoillance. Roqueats for this entrance will be covered in a separate paragraph. A one-day orientation course in Counter Insurgency is also discussed in a subsequent paragraph as well as an extonaive two-wook course in Flaps and Seale for Major Ochow at a Tsh Safe House.

7. iloquirements for OTR/08/Covert Training: Station Caracas has submitted the following recommendations as areas which should be covered in the training of these officera: OME/OS/Covert Training may modify and/or adapt the list as necessary.

a. The Organization of Clandestiue Activities

b. Security

c. Observation and Description (Chaingi


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

d. Surveillanco

g. Agent Acquisition
1. Spotting
2. Accout
3. Recruitnout
4. Training
5. Matia-eient
6. Terdination

-6-

f. Ciandestino Communications

g. Counter Intelligenco

h. Interrogation

i. Reporting

j. Intelligence Research and Analysis

8. It is requested that Ground Brauch of SOD moke the services of Colonel Valeriano available for a one-day orientation in the latest techniques used in the field of counterinsurgency. The traineco are well avare of the general problems and history of fighting guerrillas and are actively engaged in oporations at the present. It is suggested that the instructions stress use of intelligence in combatting guerrilla groups and ceana of procuring it to include the creation of intelligenco nets acang peasants in the afflicted areas. It is also belioved that any current information on modifications in the tactics of Mao Tse-tung would also: be of value as would be examples of the use of prychological warfare programs against the guerrillas cud the intellectual leaders of the communiet party, considered as the novlug force bohind the guerrilla novomentin Verozuela)(it is proposed that Mr. Cavan who would use the alias of "ill Cabal" Jake the trainees to the office of Valorians and that Valeriano be introduced as a consultant of CLA who is very knowledgeable of counterinsurgency problems Valeriano as a member of the International lolice Services Academy, has talked to other Latin American officials on this problem as part of his overt duties. It is believed his talks will make coro avare of the threats of insurgency movements and also Lo the ground work for possible future association with SIFA or the Venezuelan Governnout in the counterinsurgency


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

-7-

field. Through Mr. Ellis Chief of the Ground Branch of
So, and Mr. Wall, of the same branch, one-half day
orientation course was given to the first trainees who
suggested that a full day vould be sufficient due to the
lovel of the above traluees and the experience they have
in this fiold.

9. Arrangemente have been made with Mr. Luria and
   Mr. Fritz Nekoof TSD/Training to provido Major Luis 06
   Alfonso Ochomwith a Flans and Souls course for the
   period of 19-30 April at a TSD Safe House. It is believed
   the Flure and Seals couruo will benefit CIA because it
   will offor HERSCHOOL the opportunity to maintain closer
   contact with chon moill the responsible for this type
   activity in SIA SIFA proposen to make a concertod
   offort in the letter intercept fiold to keep botter
   informed of the extreme loftist offorts to overthrow the
   11 Venezuelan government, and it is felt that HUitSCHWOOD
   can keep abreast of the operation. Because of SIFA'8 29
   responsibilities it is believed that the wore effiofent
   effort that Sife can calle in this field will result to
   the benefit of CIA.Tinjor Ochon would take the first six
   wooks of the covert training course then devote the last
   two weeks to the Flops and Souls course.

10. It is also requested that TSO/Training provide
    a one-day course in Audic Surveillance and flaps and
    Seals for the other three trainees at the R & S Building.
    This should be a very geuoral briefing with the least
    possible onphasis on ocapiicated, oxpensive equipaout
    that might be later requested by the trainees. It is
    believed this general introduction will give the IFA 29
    trainere some idea as to approaches and problems luvolved
    in these fields as well as the pitfalls that should be
    avoided. This one-day course was given to the first three
    tratuses who appeared fuproused with the concepte expoand
    to thea, This subject has also been discussed with Mr.
    Luria ani a fira date has been selected for the training.
    The OTit instructor will accompany the trainees and aot
    as translator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

-8-

It is roquested that CI/CA obtalo permission for the visitors to enter the R & S building for this training which is scheduled for the 19th of April.

*   Concurrances:

DC/CI

DESMOND FITZGERALD
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

DDP Training and Qualification Review
03
WH/3/WECAVAN 1p (24 Feb. 65)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - DDP/TRO

1 - CI/Staff

1 - FI/OPS

2 - TSD/TRNG

1 - SOD/Ground

1 - C/WID

1 - C/WH/FIang

2 - WH/3/DO


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)