# SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: C/PCS INFO: FILE, VR, D/DCI, DD0-5, CSRF, AGC/DDO, C/AF-9,
C/CA-3, C/CA/SOG-3, C/CCS, C/CI-4, C/CMS, C/CMS/MS, C/CMS/PEB, C/DCD-3,
C/DEF/AA, C/EA-8, C/EPS/COMP, C/EPS/EG-2, C/EUR-6, C/FR-4, C/IID, C/IMS,
C/INT/ST, C/LA-8, C/LSN/MIL, C/NE-6, C/OG/DMS, C/PCS/CAC, C/PCS/DEF,
C/PCS/INT, C/PCS/ITC-4, C/PCS/LSN, C/PCS/NAR-2, C/PCS/TC, C/PM, C/SE-5,
C/SIA, C/SIA/EE, C/SIA/FL, C/SIA/IA, C/SIA/IC, D/OLC, DDO/DO, ODPD-D,
OGC-2, SA/D010 (105/P)

78 0763280

PAGE 001
TOT: 270110Z MAY 78 DIRECTOR 230113

# SECRET
STAFF 270057Z DIRECTOR 230113
TO: PRIORITY WWSB, LUXEMBOURG.

BOOK CABLE

WNINTEL RYBAT

1. THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS (HSCA),
   CHAIRED BY REPRESENTATIVE LOUIS STOKES, HAS BEEN INTERVIEWING
   A NUMBER OF RETIREES AND EX-EMPLOYEES AND HAS BEEN GOING
   THROUGH MATERIAL FURNISHED TO THEM BY THE AGENCY. THROUGH
   THIS PROCESS COMMITTEE STAFF MEMBERS HAVE OBTAINED A NUMBER
   OF NAMES OF NONOFFICIAL COVER OFFICERS AND AGENT CRYPTONYMS.
   IT IS NOW THE INTENTION OF THE COMMITTEE TO SEND STAFF
   MEMBERS TO A NUMBER OF COUNTRIES TO INTERVIEW INDIVIDUALS IN
   THE FIELD. WE ARE, OF COURSE, MOST CONCERNED ABOUT THE
   PROTECTION OF OUR SOURCES AND THE IDENTITIES OF OUR NONOFFICIAL
   OFFICERS. AT THE SAME TIME, WE ARE ANXIOUS TO ASSIST THE
   WORK OF THE HSCA. WE SHALL THEREFORE EXAMINE EACH REQUEST
   ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS.

2. WE HAVE BEEN WORKING WITH CHAIRMAN STOKES TO DEVELOP
   MUTUALLY ACCEPTED GUIDELINES FOR HANDLING HSCA REQUESTS. THESE
   ARE:

A. CONTACTS WITH FORMER AGENCY EMPLOYEES LIVING ABROAD:
IF WE KNOW WHERE SUCH EMPLOYEES ARE, WE WILL INFORM
THE COMMITTEE. WE CANNOT, HOWEVER, UNDERTAKE TO FIND THEM IF WE
DO NOT KNOW WHERE THEY ARE.

B, INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE NOT AND HAVE NOT BEEN AGENTS,
BUT WHO MIGHT HAVE INFORMATION PERTINENT TO THE
INVESTIGATION:
THE NAMES OF SUCH INDIVIDUALS WILL BE FURNISHED US
BY THE HSCA AND WE WILL CHECK TO ENSURE THAT SUCH AN INDIVIDUAL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 0763280

PAGE 002
TOT: 270110Z MAY 78 DIRECTOR 230113

WOULD NOT BE IN A POSITION TO REVEAL PREVIOUS OR CURRENT AGENCY ASSETS OR OPERATIONS.

C. NONOFFICIAL COVER OFFICERS:
HSCA STAFF MEMBERS MAY INTERVIEW NOCS BUT NOT REPEAT NOT IN COUNTRY. NOCS WILL BE FLOWN TO OTHER AREAS FOR INTERVIEWS. ADDITIONALLY, NOCS WILL USE ALIASES AS APPROPRIATE.

D. AGENTS, PAST OR PRESENT:
HSCA STAFF MEMBERS MAY NOT REPEAT NOT CONTACT OR INTERVIEW AGENTS.

3. IF YOU ARE APPROACHED IN THE FIELD WITH A REQUEST FROM AN HSCA STAFF MEMBER TO BE PUT IN TOUCH WITH NOCS OR AGENTS AND YOU HAVE NOT HAD PRIOR HEADQUARTERS NOTIFICATION OF SUCH A REQUEST, YOU SHOULD IMMEDIATELY CONSULT HEADQUARTERS PRIOR TO MAKING ANY COMMITMENT. E2 IMPDET.>

ORIG: C/PCS (PAGE)X1052; COORD: SA/DO/O (GREGG)X1398; OGC ( )
X9212; OLC (BRECKINRIDGE)X1133; AUTH: JOHN N. MCMAHON, DDO, 1414;
REL: FRANK C. CARLUCCI, DDCI, X1155.<

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)