# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE: 665
8 NOV 62

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : SAN JUAN

ACTION: TFW 10

INFO: DDP, DOP/SIT 3, CI, CI/OPS FL, ISO 4, WE 4, WH 7, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

RE Filing (check one):
No Ca Record Value. Destroy.
Fill file this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated

Marked
None required

19-124-2017

ROUTING

1
4

2
5

3
6

NOV 8 23432 62

ROUTINE

IN 15095

WAVE INFO DIR HAGU CITE SJAN 0835

GYROSE

REF HPSW 1362 (NOT SENT WAVE)

1. IN INITIAL DISCUSSION WITH IDEN A, HE INFORMED KARNLEY THAT HE IS IN CONTACT LOCALLY WITH DRE (FOR DIR: SEE PARA 1 REF). IDEN A SAID HIS CONTACT HAS BEEN WITH JOSE ARTECONA, BROTHER OF CARLOS "TRIPA" ARTECONA.

2. ARTECONA HAD SOUGHT IDEN A'S ASSISTANCE OBTAINING MINIATURE CAMERAS WHICH SAID HE WISHED TRANSMIT TO PBRUMEN THROUGH CHANNEL WHICH HIS ORGANIZATION HAS NOW ESTABLISHED WITH IDEN B. ACCORDING TO ARTECONA IDEN B COOPERATING AS COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL USING "DIPLOMATIC POUCH" AND HAS NOT ONLY TRANSMITTED MESSAGES BUT ON ONE OCCASION TRANSMITTED ONE UNIT SMALL ARMS.

3. WHEN QUERIED FURTHER IDEN A SAID ARTECONA HAS NEVER IDENTIFIED INDIVIDUAL WHO ACTUALLY IN CONTACT WITH IDEN B NOR INDICATED EXTENT IDEN B'S GOVT INVOLVED. WHOLE STORY FAIRLY LOOSE.

4. KARNLEY DECLINED IDEN A SUGGESTION THAT HE TALK DIRECTLY WITH ARTECONA. SUGGESTED INSTEAD THAT IDEN A ADVISE ARTECONA TO PRESENT HIS REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE TO HIS KUBARK CONTACT,

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Copy No.

![illegible]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

RK File (when and):
No Co Record Value. Destroy.
File this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
NE indexed indicate sent.
Marked None required
Signature

PAGE 2

ROUTING

1
4

2
5

3
6

IN 15095 SJAN 0835

(ARTECONA HAD PREVIOUSLY MENTIONED DRE/KUBARK CONTACT) EXPRESSING OPINION THAT IF DRE HAD INDEED DEVELOPED SUCH CHANNEL TO PBRUMEN, KUBARK VERY LIKELY BE MUCH INTERESTED.

5. IDEN A HAS NOW MADE ABOVE SUGGESTION AND ARTECONA HAS SAID WILL PRESENT TO KUBARK CONTACT DURING VISIT MIAMI WHICH EXPECTS MAKE LATER THIS MONTH.

6. SJAN ELECTED HANDLE MATTER THIS WAY SO AS TO AVOID CROSSING WAVE CHANNEL TO DRE. IF CONSIDERED DESIRABLE HOWEVER SELIEVE SJAN CAN EASILY ESTABLISH CONTACT AND FOLLOW THIS UP FROM HERE.

7. ADVISE.

8. FOR HAGU: DRE IS DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL, PROMINENT CUBAN EXILE STUDENT GROUP WITH LONG STANDING KUBARK ASSOCIATION. HOS IS IN MIAMI WITH MARGINAL REPRESENTATION SAN JUAN.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTO-
MATIC DOWNGRADING &
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)