# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ΜΗΕΝΟ: 97-7175531
SENSINDT
PAGE: 1
FRP: 2
STAFF

ACTION: C/OCC (320) INFO: LA/FIG, LA/FIGCC, LIMITED, MDSX, OCDORECORD,
ODPD, ORMS/LA, FILE, C/LA/RB4, DC/LA/RB2 (3/W)
97 7175531 ASP PAGE 001 IN 7175531
TOR: 072251Z MAR 97 SJOS 36861

SECRET 072251Z MAR 97 STAFF

CITE SAN JOSE 36861

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM CHIEF/OCC INFO LA/FIGCC

SLUGS--WNNINTEL

*SUBJECT: RESULTS OF CONTACT WITH FORMER EMPLOYEE CONCERNING<JFK>
*
<ASSASSINATION>RECORD COLLECTION ACT

REF: DIRECTOR 256618 97 7145484

TEXT

1. ACTION REQUESTED: FYI.

2. ON 7 MARCH 1997, COS MET WITH IDEN TO REF) (SUBJECT) TO PASS SUBJECT REF TEAR LINE ALERTING HIM THAT HIS NAME APPEARS IN DOCUMENTS THAT ARE BEING REVIEWED FOR RELEASE TO PUBLIC UNDER *<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORD COLLECTION ACT.
   SUBJECT READ THE TEAR LINE CAREFULLY AND ASKED QUESTIONS WHICH WERE COVERED IN THE ADDITIONAL GUIDANCE PROVIDED IN REF. SUBJECT SAID HE HAD NO OBJECTION TO THE RELEASE OF HIS NAME. SUBJECT NOTED HE HAD BEEN CÓS IN SAN JOSE IN 1971 WHEN HE WAS SUBJECT OF A PNG ACTION BY HOST GOVERNMENT WHICH WAS HEAVILY PUBLICIZED IN THE LOCAL PRESS. THEREFORE, HE FEELS HE IS ALREADY WELL KNOWN IN COSTA RICA AND FURTHER PUBLIC DISCLOSURE WILL NOT DO HIM ANY HARM. SUBJECT WAS IMPRESSED AND GRATEFUL THAT TQHIGHROAD PROVIDED HIM WITH A HEADS UP ON THIS ISSUE.

3. FILE: NONE. CL BY: 2024831, CL REASON: 1.5(C), DECL ON: X1, DRV FROM: HUM 4-82
   END-OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)