# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

![signature]

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Contact Report, Meeting with AMWHIP-1

DATE : 21 May 1965, 1300-1430 hours

PLACE : National Airport

PRESENT Subject and DiUbaldo as Breitheim

1. On 20 May I phoned Subject and requested that he travel to Washington to discuss the background of his discussions with 02 (UNSNAFU-19 from which stemmed the suggestion that A-1 supply a French-English-Spanish speaking secretary to 19's mission in Paris. The meeting was quite short for as it turned out, the discussion between Subject and 19 on the topic of secretaries, had taken place in March 1965, and had been little more than a casual sort of thing devoid of any specifics whatever and, in particular, devoid of any commitment by either party to proffer or to accept a profferred body. Nevertheless, Subject felt quite certain that slots would still be open in 19's mission and that a recommendation from him would suffice to effect favorable action by (U) 19.

2. I sketched AMBUNNY's qualifications stressing the fact that she had gone to school in the U. S., had worked here, and had done a hitch as a social secretary for the American Ambassador in La Paz.)
   Subject drew the obvious conclusions that it might be difficult to dummy up AMBUNNY's labenslauf adequately to prevent her from being "discovered" by the Cubans. At any rate, since she was our only candidate, Subject agreed to meet with her in New York so that together they could thresh out the pragmatics of the problem. The meeting was set for 22 May. Al Marin (alias) would participate in this meeting.

![Amwtinh file]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLORET

- 2 -

3. For the record, I should like to note that in the two and a half years since I had last seen Subject he had aged over 15 years. When I last saw him he was a round-faced, dark-haired, boyish person and has now been transformed into a very grey, very puffy, 50 year old man though I understand his chronological age is something short of 40. These observations had nothing to do with anything except they might indicate that Subject is living under a great strain. I derived the impression, which coincides with that I obtained the first time I met with Subject, that he is constitutionally oblique in his approach to matters. He is a very difficult person to corner. I am firmly convinced that to date in this operation, if it may be called that, we have never come close to placing Subject in the corner and that it is high time we do so. I do not imply that he is a man of ill will, rather that instinctively he is a man who slides off problems until such time as he feels he has sufficient evidence or is in the right posture to solve them. I should think it would be our task to exploit these natural capacities while at the same time attempting to assure that Subjects not sliding away from us.

![signature of Sidney P. Di Ubaldo]

Sidney P. Di Ubaldo


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)