# RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

# DISPATCH

Chief, Task Force

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
Operational/YROSE/FUDESK

ACTION REQUIRED: None; FYI

1. Subject was removed from CAC on 3 September 1962, taken to a safe site where he was debriefed for purposes of the debriefing was to ascertain the subject's reasons for leaving Cuba and determining if he had any relationship with the G-2 or any other Security organization.

2. During the course of the debriefing the subject appeared to be willing to cooperate and there were no indications of attempt of deception. However, it is felt that the subject is a sharp operator, an opportunist and an individual that survives by his wits. He is very verbose, loud and attempts to hold the floor at all times.

3. CEELLANA claims that he had no relationship with the Cuban G-2, that he knew Faniro VALOI, Chief of the G-2
   FINCIPO, Deputy Chief of the G-2, but that he never conducted any business with them. He stated that he knew a few agents by sight but never knew their names. He is of the opinion that all members of the G-2 are communists and individuals of very low caliber.

4. Subject was granted asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy on 06.08 April 1961, which was obtained through [Fernando RODRIGUEZ], leader of the Chauffeurs Union in the Uruguayan Ambassador. According to Subject he had to seek asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy because he was in danger of being picked up by the Cuban Security Services. He claims that in August 1961 he was engaged in the transportation of material and personnel from Habana to the "Segundo frente" in the Escambray mountains, in the Province of Santa Clare. At that time he was cooperating with [Captain (fnu) SALAS], [Lilo BALASIDA], [Benito Politico], [Roy GUTIERREZ Meroyo, Kiko Ibarra], [Captain Ramiro Lestido] and [Bernardo PARALELA]. According to Subject, an individual named Julio was arrested in March 1962 and during the course of his interrogation.

(continued)

Attachments: herewith
History

18 Sept 62

Distributions:
3 - C/TT& w/att

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

Security Service, "ferite" data concerning Subject.

Subject also admitted that he was contacted on 26 April 1961 by the FBI because of his connection with a group engaged in the purchase and sale of arms. According to Subject he and a group were engaged in the purchase of arms. Subject Correcto endeavored to take arms out of the country.

Of the group, Vicente Benito AMPOL Hernandez and a women only Lere arrested by the Security Services. AMPOL Hernandez and COZ informed the Security Service that the Subject knew the whereabouts of RAMOS. Subject stated that he asked to provide the address of RAMOS. Subject stated that they arrested and after being held for four days he was bailed out by Miquel and Z012, who were released a few days before the release of Subject.

7. Subject denies any association with the Communist Party, C-2 or any other Security Service. He states he is anti-Communism and is willing to do anything to fight communism and liberate Cuba. Subject stated he has no political interest and was returned to Cuba for that cause. Subject does not contemplate any future connection.

8. JMCAVE traces reflect the following information on some of the individuals mentioned in this dispatch:

a. Eloy GUTIERREZ Subject of 201-283349; Born 11 July 1921, CECH-275, 1 September 1961; and 201-5558, 25 August 1961.

b. Aurelio SILVA. Probably identical with Aurelio SILVA, former member of Cuban National Police, 19 June 1961.

c. Domingo MENDEZ - Probably identical with Domingo MENDEZ mentioned in HKIL-63284, 24 September

d. General Genoveva PEREZ Davera - Identical with Genovevo PEREZ Davers, one-time chief of the Cuban Army. See HKIW-5580, 20 October 1959.

There are no identifiable traces on all other individuals mentioned in this dispatch.

END OF DISPATCH


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)