# SECRET

MHFNO: 96-3312306 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

FRP: STAFF

ACTION: NR/PGO (522) INFO: C/NR, C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/NR, CIC/OG, CIC/PRC, CP/NR, CTC/COPS, CTC/IFC, CTC/MSB, CTC/OOG, CTCARCHIVE, LIMITO, MDSX, NR/ATA, NR/CEG, NR/ECON, NR/EX, NR/EX/E, NR/EX/W, NR/KRG, NR/TCOM, NRDORECORD, ODPD, FILE, C/CTC, DC/CTC (3/W)

96 3312306 ASR PAGE 001 IN 3312306
TOR: 271506Z FEB 96 MINN 19681

SECRET 271349Z FEB 96 STAFF

CITE MINNEAPOLIS 19681

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT NR/PGO INFO CHIEF/NR, NR/ES, NR/EX/W, NR/EX/E, NR/ECON, NR/TCOM, NR/KRG, CP/NR, NR/CEG, NR/ATA, CIC/NR

SLUGS: WNINTEL MXBLAZE

SUBJECT: NO CONTACT STATUS OF STATION CONTACTS AND ASSETS

REF: A. DIRECTOR 654551 96 3268629

B. DIRECTOR 742844

TEXT:

1. PER REF A REQUEST, FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF STATION CONTACTS AND ASSETS WHO ARE CURRENTLY IN NO-CONTACT STATUS.

A. ((ANDREGG)), MICHAEL GROUND ZERO, ST. PAUL, MIN. IN 1992 PRODUCED AND BROADCAST ON LOCAL CABLE ACCESS TV AN ANTI-NWBOLTON FILM LINKING (NWBOLTON TO THE *<ASSASSINATION>OF<JFK, MLK, ETC. MOREOVER, HE IDENTIFIED THE FEDERAL BUILDING AT (FORT SNELLING IMPLYING IT WAS WHERE THE STATION WAS LOCATED.

B. ((AWNI)), WALID MOHAMMED ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR, PHARMACEUTICALS HENNEPIN COUNTY MEDICAL CENTER MINNEAPOLIS, MN. DPOB: 20 SEP 55, BAGHDAD, IRAQ ACCORDING TO LOCAL FBI, IN MID/LATE 1980S_SUBJ WAS THE DISTRICT LEADER FOR AREA BATHISTS. HE REPORTEDLY WAS ACTIVE IN A NOW DEFUNCT UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA STUDENT GROUP, THE GENERAL UNION OF PALESTINIAN STUDENTS, AND CHAPTER PRESIDENT OF THE ORGANIZATION OF ARAB STUDENTS. THE FBI SAID AWANI FUNNELED MONEY FROM BAGHDAD TO LOCAL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS. HE HAD A GREEN CARD IN 1983 AND MAY NOW BE A U.S. CITIZEN.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

RMHENG 96-3312306 SENSIND:

C. ((BOSROCK)), RONALD M.
H. B. FULLER COMPANY
ST. PAUL, MN.
DPOB: 22 OCT 1938, BATTLE CREEK, MI.
21 JULY 89 SUBJECT TOLD C/O THAT HE DID NOT WANT
TO BE A SOURCE.
FILE: 201-1254083

D. ((DICKEY)), DENNIS B.
DIRECTOR, FAR EAST TECHNICAL OPERATIONS
TOL-O-MATIC
MINNEAPOLIS, MN.
DPOB: 15 AUG 42, MINNEAPOLIS, MN. WAS
C/O RANGOON CALLED TOL-O-MATIC ON 26 AUG 88.
TOLD BY SECURITY OFFICER THAT SUBJECT HAD BEEN ACTING STRANGELY
AND WAS GOING TO SEE PSYCHIATRIST. RECOMMENDED CONTACT BE
DROPPED.
FILE: 201-1259101.

E. ((FEKETE)), DANIEL W.
<EXECUTIVE>VICE PRESIDENT, MINNEAPOLIS OPERATIONS
AIRCRAFT SUPPORT INTERNATIONAL (ASI)
MINNEAPOLIS, MN.
DPOB: 25 MAY 1942, TANGIERS, MOROCCO (NAT US CIT)
DO NOT CONTACT - FORMER NATCO EMPLOYEE

F. ((FUHR)), EBERHARD JOHN
1060 27TH AVE SE, APT D,
MINNEAPOLIS, MN.
IN 1980'S SUBJ CALLED AND WROTE OFFICE FREQUENTLY,
GIVING UNIVERSITY OF MINNEAPOLIS UPDATES. CONSIDERED A KOOK.

G. ((GRUENBERG)), MICHAEL
PRESIDENT, ENDOTRONICS,
COON RAPIDS, MN.
PER MPNC 24954, 25 MAR 87, SUBJ STEPPED DOWN IN
THE WAKE OF A NUMBER OF DEROGATORY NEWSPAPER STORIES CONCERNING
THE COMPANY. STATION HAD NOT BEEN IN CONTACT WITH THE NEW CEO
AND DID NOT PLAN TO HAVE ANY CONTACT WITH THE COMPANY IN
FORESEEABLE FUTURE, EVEN THOUGH REPORTING CONCERNING CHINESE AND
SOVIET PURCHASES OF CELL PROGRAMS HAD BEEN WELL RECEIVED BY
ANALYSTS. TERMINATED CONTACT WITH COMPANY UNTIL THE MATTER WAS
FULLY RESOLVED.
FILE: 201-1258076.

H. ((HALLEY)), J. WOODS
PROFESSOR OF PHYSICS
SEPT 89 FBI ADVISED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL WAS NOT
COOPERATIVE.

I. ((HOOPER)), ALAN B.
PROFESSOR OF GENETICS
SEPT 89 FBI ADVISED THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL WAS NOT
COOPERATIVE.

SECRET
PAGE: 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MHENO 96-3312306
SECRET
SENSIND:
J. ((KWO)), DAVID W.
3M, RIKER LABS PHARMACEUTICAL
DPOB: 2 JUN 35, SHANGHAI (NAT. U.S. CIT)
FORMER NWBOLTON EMPLOYEE. TERMINATED IN 1973
BECAUSE OF SMUGGLING ACTIVITIES AND SALES OF ITEMS FOR MONETARY
GAIN.

K. ((MAPP)), GORDON A.
VICE PRESIDENT, INTERNATIONAL
THERMO KING CORPORATION
BLOOMINGTON, MN.
DPOB: 21 MAR 46, NASSAWADOX, VA.
PER NC/MINNEAPOLIS 12687, 29 SEP 92,
SUBJECT WAS UNCOOPERATIVE.
FILE: 201-1268151; 301-3131263.

L. ((MARZOLF)), LYNN M.
VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF FINANCE OFFICER
KENSINGER INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
ST. PAUL, MN.
SUBJ DOES NOT WANT CONTACT WITH STATION.
FILE: 201-1261295.

M. ((MOUROUKIAN)), RICHARD E.
DIRECTOR, CLIENT SERVICES SYSTEMS
HONEYWELL INC.
MINNEAPOLIS, MN.
DPOB: 5 NOV 39, SHANGHAI, CHINA
SUBJECT NOT COOPERATIVE.
201-1255214; 301-136898.

N. ((O'BRIEN)), KEIRAN W.
DANNY'S CONSTRUCTION CO., INC.
SHAKOPEE, MN.
DPOB: 21 OCT 37, BELLE PLAIN, MN.
SUBJ NOT COOPERATIVE, HOSTILE AND SUSPICIOUS.

O. ((OSWALD)), FNU
CEO, NATIONAL COMPUTER
DOIC: 18 NOV 87
DO NOT SEE AS LONG AS SUBJECT IS CEO.

P. ((QUIST)), B. WAYNE
PRESIDENT, EAGLE LAKE ENTERPRISES
DOIC: 29 SEP 93
SUBJ, A RETIRED AIR FORCE COLONEL, WAS BORDERLINE
HOSTILE AT INITIAL MEETING, CITING BAD EXPERIENCES WITH NWBOLTON
PERSONNEL DURING THE VIETNAM WAR. C/O DID NOT ANTICIPATE ANY
FURTHER CONTACT. (SEE NR/MINNEAPOLIS 15213, 18 OCT 93)

Q. ((SHAPIRO)), ELSA
PROFESSOR OF NEUROPSYCHOLOGY
UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA
MINNEAPOLIS, MN.
DURING ONE-TIME DEBRIEF SEPT 87 SUBJ INDICATED SHE
DID NOT WANT-CONTINUING CONTACT
SECRET
PAGE: 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MHFNO 96-3312306

SECRET

SENSIND:

R. ((STAGEBERG)), JAMES
STAGEBERG PARTNERS, INC.
MINNEAPOLIS, MN.
MET IN JUN 87. DECLINED OFFER OF FURTHER MEETINGS.

S. ((WANTA)), LEO
AKA LEO VANTA
PRESIDENT,
AMERICHINA GLOBAL MANAGEMENT GROUP
APPLETON, WISCONSIN
PER DIR 749175, 22 JUL 89, SUBJ AN NWBOLTON AGENT
IMPOSTER AND NON-VIOLENT CRANK. SUBJECT IS NOT TO BE MET BY
STATION PERSONNEL. HAD APPROACHED FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
AND NWBOLTON ASSETS WITH OFFERS TO SELL VARIOUS NON-EXISTENT
GOODS.

T. ((WEIBEL)), FRIDERICK (FRITZ)
PRESIDENT, TECH-TRADE CO.
ΜΙΝΝΕΤΟΝΚΑ, ΜΝ.
DPOB: 26 MAY 56, SOLOTHURN, SWITZERLAND (NAT.
U.S. CIT.)
IPMS RECORD DID NOT CONFIRM SUBJECT'S U.S.
CITIZENSHIP (SEE DIR 492608, 8 JUN 87)
FILE: 201-1260191

U. ((WOODWARD)), VAL W.
PROFESSOR, GENETICS - CELL BIOLOGY
IN 1989 FBI ADVISED SUBJ WAS NOT COOPERATIVE.

2. CL BY: 0622961, CL REASON: 1.5(C), DECL ON: X1.

3. FILE: 100-120-404. DECL DRV HUM 4-82.
   END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

PAGE: 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)