# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT: Robert A. Maheu

Mr. Robert A. Maheu was born on 30 October 1917 in Waterville, Maine. He graduated from Holy Cross College in 1940 and is married with four children. He was employed as a Special Agent with the FBI from 1940 to 1947, and upon re- signing from the Bureau, formed a private enterprise doing business as "Dairy Dream Products." This venture culminated in bankruptcy in 1952. He then re-entered Government service with the Small Business Administration in Washington, D. C., and was appointed Special Assistant to the Administrator with the specific duty of Director of Security. In February of 1954, he was forced to resign from SBA because of political reasons, determined to be the result of backing the wrong political party in the election. He then set up his own investigative organization known as Robert A. Maheu Associates.

Mr. Maheu was recruited by the Office of Security in March of 1954. He was previously known to Mr. Robert H. Cunningham (deceased) who was, at that time, Chief, Special Security Division, through their mutual employment by the FBI. Cunningham saw in Maheu a covert asset who could be utilized by the Office in extremely sensitive cases. With the approval of the Director of Security, Subject was offered a proposition wherein he was to receive $500.00 per month, with the stipulation that he move into his own office and that he be on call for any assignments by the Office of Security. He agreed to this and immediately took steps to move out of his area, where he rented desk space in a suite occupied by Carmine S. Bellino, a former FBI agent and CPA.

In July of 1954, Maheu was engaged by "British shipping interests" to check on Aristotle Onassis' activities while in the United States. This included technical coverage of Onassis' New York office. It was later learned that the principal "British interest" was Stavros Niarchus and that the ultimate goal of this task was to scrap the Onassis/ Saudi oil doal. Maheu took the job but conditioned his acceptance with the fact that he would do nothing inimical to the U. S. Government. Any information developed of interest to the United States was to be passed by Maheu to the appro- priate Government agency.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

During this operation Maheu had his staff prepare a paper citing dangers to U. S. economy and trade resulting from the Onassis deal. Through contacts in FOA, Maheu had Harold Stassen read this paper in the National Security Council on 22 June 1954. During this same period Maheu briefed Scott McLeod, Assistant Secretary of State for Security and Consular Affairs on the project. McLeod agreed to furnish State commo and pouch facilities subject to Joan Foster Dulles' approval. Additionally, Maheu briefed J. Edgar Hoover and Vice President Nixon.

In August of 1954, Maheu advised this Office of his relationship with Niarchus. NEA Division was contacted and expressed interest in this matter. They were put in touch with Maheu and furnished him a commo channel, a pouch system and operational guidance. International litigation erupted as a result of the Onassis/Niarchus matter, and as a result of Niarchus claiming Government privilege in the case, the Agency was subsequently identified as being the Government agency involved. Files of this Office reflect extensive correspondence furnished us by the Office of General Counsel in 1956 regarding the Onassis matter.

On 16 August 1954 Subject was granted a covert security clearance for utilization as an agent under Project TWIXT in the Near East. On 30 August 1954 he was granted a similar clearance to permit his use in the United States as a covert associate under Project LPHIDDEN. In November of 1957, a cable from Ciudad Trujillo indicated that Mr. Maheu had allegedly been involved in a violation of the Mann Act in procuring and transporting prostitutes for President Sukarno during Sukarno's state visit to the United States in 1956. Mr. Maheu contacted this Office to advise that the allegations were without foundation and stated that he would take steps immediately to have his attorney see that appropriate Dominican officials would retract the charges. This was subsequently done. Edward Bennett Williams acted as Maheu's lawyer in this matter.

In 1957 information was received indicating that during President Sukarno's visit to Moscow in the fall of 1956, he was introduced to a Soviet woman within the Kremlin. He had an affair with her against the admonitions of his advisers. It was reported that the Soviets took detailed films of the affair and that a copy was sent to the PKΙ. In June of 1957 Al Ulmer and Samuel Halpern, FE Division, contacted the

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Director of Security and outlined a project wherein they envisioned a film being made simulating this affair. It was planned that clips from this film would be inserted in a leaflet for distribution throughout Southeast Asia sug- gesting that Sukarno was compromised by the Soviets. In July of 1957, Robert Maheu was given this assignment. Не utilized a trusted male employee of this organization (since deceased) and his fiance. Maheu after an intensive make-up course, administered the make-up to the participants himself, utilizing available pictures and descriptions of the subjects as a guide. He hired a studio where he was given detailed instruction on the use of the lights and camera. When the film was taken, only Maheu and the two participants were in the studio. The project known as "Happy Days," was never completed and the film was not distributed.

Files of this Office reflect that during the 1958-1959 period, FE Division was put in touch with Maheu by this Office for assistance in another operation relating to President Sukarno. This project was originated in May 1958 when FE Division initially contacted the Director of Security and briefed him on the project known as HARPSTAR. Basically, the project capitalized on President Sukarno's known weakness for Caucasion women. Robert Maheu was given the assignment to locate a female-candidate. He advised that a prominent attorney and "man about town, " could come up with a qualified woman. was investigated with favorable results and given a CSA on 2 July 1958 but was not made witting of CIA interest. The female candidate was , a well-to-do widow, approximately 35 years of age, resident of , considered to be highly intelligent and extremely attractive: In August of 1953, the Project HARPSTAR plan was concurred in by the COPS and the DCI.

In September of 1953, Maheu and James O'Connell, of this Office, met with in New York City. was briefed on Agency interest in the matter. Later in September Haheu met within New York City under his true name and told her of governmental interest. knew Maheu's true identity having been introduced to him socially by . On the same day (23 September 1958), was introduced to Joseph Smith, FE Division (known to bota and Maheu as Joseph Sims). was briefed on the assignment, indicated that she understood exactly what was

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

expected of her and stated that she could leave the country in 45 days. On 24 September 1958 "Sims" again met with at which time she was told she would be accompanied by a female traveling companion, Elizabeth Hogarth (actually Elizabeth Harter, FE Division). was told that "Hogarth" would ostensibly be her secretary but would be, in fact, the person she would look to for direction.

Records of this Office do not reflect any of the activities of during the course of her mission. It is known that she did meet Sukarno, but due to unfortunate timing that had him leaving his country on official business, she had little time to cultivate him. Consequently, the purpose of the mission was not fulfilled. The last known contacto had with the Agency was in the form of a telephone call on 12 April 1961 when she called on a sterile line and talked to Mr. Hugh Tovar, who she knew as George Henry. She advised that one had asked her to give a party for President Sukarno who would be in Los Angeles on 21 April 1961. wanted to know whether the Agency was interested in sponsoring this party. A negative response was given.

In June of 1959, a covert security approval was issued for the use of Mahen by IO Division in order for him to be approached and advised of Agency interest in Interuational Labor. Files of this Office do not reflect whether or not this was done. On 7 October 1959 a covert security approval was granted for Mr. Maheu's use in the United States. The request for approval indicated that Subject might be employed by the King of Jordan to handle Jordanian public relations in the United States. Mr. Mahou's later involvement in the procurement of feminine companionship for King Hussein during the latter's state visit to the United States is set forth in Attachment A.

In August of 1960, Richard M. Bissell, the then DD/P contacted the Director of Security regarding the Roselli matter. Details concerning this are set forth in Attachment B.

In 1966 information was received by the Agency indicating that the Senate Administrative Practices Subcommittee, under the chairmanship of Senator Edward V. Long, had advised Maheu that his testimony was desired concerning his relationshin with Onassis, Savros Niarchos, Sam Giancana and. The Subcommittee interest was invasion of privacy and

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

particularly the use of audio devices by private investigators. In July of 1966, Senator Long was alerted to the fact that the Agency had had sensitive operational contacts with Maheu. Senator Long was told that the Agency had used Maheu over the years on a number of occasions but that he had never been asked to engage in any wiretapping and had never engaged in any such activities on our behalf. Office of Security files do not indicate whether or not Maheu did appear before this Subcommittee, although it appears that he did not.

In January of 1971, in light of the involvement of Maheu in a suit between executives of the Hughes Company and Maheu, the Director of Security recommended to the DCI that all existing clearances with Maheu and Associates be terminated. The DCI concurred in this recommendation.

Files of this Office reflect that Subject's company, Maheu and Associates, cooperated with the Agency in supporting the activities of an LPGLOBE agent, Michael G. Merhige, in Ecuador.

A memorandum from the Chief, Central Cover Staff to the Inspector General dated 10 October 1973, delineates the relationship between CCS and Robert Maheu and Associates.

Information regarding the possibility that Subject was involved in a leak of information concerning a sensitive DD/S&T Special Projects Staff project is set forth in Attachment C.

Subject's son Peter Robert Maheu was a staff employee of the Agency and of this Office from 1963 to 1964. He was a clerical employee. In February of 1969, Peter Maheu was granted a covert security approval as an employee of Maheu and Associates for use on Project QKENCHANT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SUBJECT: Robert Maheu - King Hussein Incident

1. In connection with the official State visit of King Hussein from 16 March through 18 April 1959, the Office of Security was requested to render special support during the Los Angeles and New York phases of the tour. According to NEA personnel Messrs. Norman Paul, Fred Larash and Willias Aras, King Hussein was especially desirous of female companionship during his Los Angeles visit and it was requested that appropriate arrangements be made through a controlled source of the Office in order to assure a satisfied visit.

2. On 3 April 1959 Mr. Robert Maheu, a cleared Office of Security contact, was asked to arrange a party for King Hussein at Los Angeles, California. This was done by Mr. Mahou through Mr.  Mr. is a prominent attorney and figure previously granted a covert security approval for use by FE Division. By pre-arrangement, during the course of this party King Hussein was introduced to , a part-time screen and stage actress. For the duration of King Hussein's stay in Los Angeles, 3 through 7 April 1959, he and Miss became intimate friends. It was indicated by Mr. Laïrash, who was integrated into the State party, that King Hussein desired to continue his friendship with Miss and that he wished to meet with her during his stay in New York City from 14 through 18 April 1959.

3. On 13 April 1959, arrangements were made to rent the home of , an Office of Security source, at Long Beach, Long Island, for the period 14 through 18 April 1959. The home was to be used as a confidential meeting place for Miss and King Hussein. At the same time Miss was registered at the Hotel Barclay, 11l East 48th Street, New York City, under the name of Mrs. of El Paso, Texas. The publicity touching on the relationship had become more pointed since/Some publicity mention had been made of the background of Miss. Ca 14 April 1959 Mr. LaTrash and Miss were transported to the home on Long Island which was taken over as


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

the meeting place for King Hussein and Miss. Later the same day, by pre-arrangement, two Department of State Security Agents, a New York City police lieutenant and a hired chauffeur arrived with King Hussein. Miss remained at the site through 13 April 1959, and King Hussein and his party visited each evening and remained for about four to five hours.

4. During the stay at the Long Beach site, Miss discussed the publicity in the case at some length with the Security representatives. She speculated about the possible sources of certain personal information that she felt had been leaked to the press. Additionally she spoke of her deep feeling for King Hussein and commented on how initially sought her out to serve as a party companion for the King. At the time she said she was unclear as to just what part Mr. wanted her to play. In attempting to clarify his case Mr. said, "I am employed by the CIAU We want you to go to bed with him." Miss said she rejected the proposal but finally went to the party. She became quite taken with King Hussein and found him to be most charming.

5. All personal contacts by Security representatives in this case were under arias and implied State Department affiliation. There is no record or indication in any of the files in this case that involves Robert Naheu by name of reference. It is believed that Mr. Maheu was never introduced to Miss , and as far as can be determined "fronted" for all arrangements. Office of Security investigation conducted variously from 25 May through 17 September 1959 of reflected no substantive derogatory information regarding her.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SUBJECT: The Johnny Roselli Matter

1. In August of 1960 Mr. Richard Bissell approached the then Director of Security, Colonel Sheffield Edwards, to determine if the Office of Security had any assets that might assist in a sensitive mission requiring gangster-type action. The mission target was Fidel Castro. Because of its extreme sensitivity, only a small group was knowledgeable of the project. The DCI was briefed and gave his approval. Colonel J. C. King, Chief, WH Division, was briefed, but all details were concealed from any of the JWAVE officials. Certain TSD and Communications personnel participated in the initial planning stages but were not witting of the purpose of the mission.

2. Robert Maheu was contacted, briefed generally on the project, and requested to ascertain if he could develop an entree into gangster elements. Mr. Maheu advised that he had met one Johnny Roselli on several occasions while visiting Las Vegas. Maheu knew Roselli only casually through clients but had been given to understand that Roselli was a high ranking member of the "Syndicate" and controlled all of the ice making machines on the Strip. Maheu was asked to approach Roselli, who knew Mahen as a personal relations executive handling domestic and foreign accounts. Maheu was to tell Roselli that he had recently been obtained by a client who represented several international business firas which were suffering heavy financial losses in Cuba as a result of Castro's action. These firms were convinced that Castro's removal was the answer to the probles and were willing to pay a price of $150,000 for its successful accomplishment. It was to be made clear to Roselli that the United States Government was not and should not become aware of this operation.

3. The pitch was made to Roselli on 14 September 1960 at the Hilton Plaza Hotel, New York City. Mr. James O'Connell, Office of Security, was present during this meeting and was identified to Roselli as an employee of Maheu. O'Connell actively served as Roselli's contact until May 1962 at which time he phased out due to an overseas assignment. Roselli's


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

initial reaction was to avoid getting involved, but through
Maheu's persuasion he agreed to introduce him to a friend,
Sam Gold.. Roselli made it clear that he would not want
any money for his part, and he believed that Gold would
feel the same way. Neither of these individuals were ever paid
out of Agency funds.

4. During the week of 25 September 1960, Haheu was
   introduced to Gold at the Fontainebleau Hotel, Miami Beach.
   During this meeting Maheu also met an individual identified
   as "Joe" who was supposedly a courier operating between
   Havana and Miami. Several weeks later Maheu saw photographs
   of both of these individuals in the Sunday Supplemental
   Parade. They were identified as Momo Salvatore Giancana
   and Santos Trafficant. Both were on the list of the
   Attorney General's ten most wanted zen. Giancana was
   described as the Chicago Chieftan of the Cosa Nostra and
   successor to Al Capone. Trafficant was identified as the
   Cosa Nostra boss of Cuban operations. Maheu called this
   Offico immediately upon ascertaining this information.

5. In discussing the possible methods of accomplishing
   the mission, Sam suggested that they not resort to firearms
   but that he be furnished some type of potent pill that could
   be placed in Castro's food or drink. Gold indicated that
   he had a prospective nominee in the person of Juan Orte, a
   Cuban official who had been receiving kickback payments for
   a gambling interest and who still had access to Castro and
   was still in a financial bind.

6. TSD was requested to produce six pills of high
   lethal content which were then delivered to Orta by "Joe."
   After several weeks of reported attempts, Orta apparently
   got cold feet and asked out of the assignment. He suggested.
   another candidate who made several attempts without success.
   "Joe" then indicated that Dr. Anthony Verona, one of the
   principal officers in the Cuban exile junta, had become
   disaffected with the apparent ineffectual progress of the
   junta and was willing to handle the mission through his
   own resources. Verona asked that he be given $10,000 for
   organization expenses and requested. $1,000 worth of communi-
   cations equipment. Dr. Verona's potential was never fully
   exploited as the mission was cancelled shortly after the
   Bay of Pigs épisode. Verona was advised the offer was
   withdrawn, and the pills were retrieved. At the height of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

the project negotiations, Gold expressed concern about
who he learned was.

Gold asked Maheu to put a bug in
room to determine the extent of with.
The technician involved in the assignment
was discovered in the process, arrested, and taken to the
sheriff's office for questioning. He called Maheu in the
presence of sheriff's personnel and informed him that he
had been detained. Subsequently, the Department of Justice
announced its intention to prosecute Maheu along with the
technician. On 7 February 1962 the Director of Security
briefed the then Attorney General Robert Kennedy on the circun-
stances leading up to Maheu's involvement in the wiretap. At
our request, prosecution was dropped.

7. In May 1962 Mr. William Harvey took over as Roselli's
   case officer and it is not known if he was used officially
   from that point on. It was subsequently learned from the
   FBI that Roselli had been convicted on six counts involving
   illegal entry into the United States some time during
   November 1967. On 2 December 1968 Roselli along with four
   other individuals was convicted of conspiracy to cheat
   members of the Friar's Club of $400,000 in a rigged gin
   rummy game. Mr. Harvey reported his contacts with Roselli
   to this office during November and December of 1967 and
   January of 1968. Roselli was facing deportation at that
   time but felt that he would win an appeal.

8. On 17 November 1970 Mr. Maheu called James O'Connell,
   Roselli's first case officer, to advise that Maheu's attorney,
   Ed Morgan had received a call from Thomas Waddin, Roselli's
   attorney, who stated that all avenues of appeal had been ex-
   hausted and Roselli faced deportation. Waddin indicated that
   if someone did not intercede on Roselli's behalf, he would
   make a complete expose of his activity with the Agency. On
   13 November 1970 Mr. Helms was briefed on this latest develop-
   ment and it was decided that the Agency would not in any way
   assist Roselli. Maheu was advised of the Agency's position
   and was in complete agreement. He stated that he was not
   concerned about any publicity as it affected him personally
   should Roselli decide to tell all. Subsequently Roselli or
   someone on his behalf furnished Jack Anderson details of the
   operation. Anderson wrote two columns regarding this operation


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

on 13 January 1971 and 23 February 1971. Roselli was last
known to be in the Federal Penitentiary in Seattle,
Washington.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SUBJECT: Special Projects Staff Matter

1. On 25 June 1974 Mr. Paul Evans, Security Officer,
   Special Projects Staff, DD/S&T, requested that Office of
   Security records be checked regarding a Mr. James R. Phelan
   and Mr. Wallace Turner who were both of interest in connection
   with a sensitive SPS activity.

2. A check of FBI and Office of Security records
   indicated that Mr. Phelan had written an unfavorable
   article about the FBI in 1965 which appeared in the Saturday
   Evening Post. Additionally Mr. Phelan testified as a defense
   witness in the Clay Shaw conspiracy trial on 26 February 1969.
   A review of Agency library sources reflected that Mr. Phelan
   had published a number of articles. Mr. Carl Duckett, DD/S&T,
   has speculated that Mr. Robert Maheu might have been the
   source of Mr. Phelan's information. Several DD/S&T officers
   recalled that in approximately December of 1970. Mr. James
   O'Connell received a telephone call from Mr. Maheu in which
   Mr. Maneu complained that the Agency had embarked on a new
   project with the Howard Hughes organization and had not
   gone through him. A review of various articles by Mr. Phelan
   indicated that he had written several stories concerning.
   Maheu's defamation suit against Howard Hughes. In these
   articles Phelan reported variously that: Howard Hughes
   might have paid Robert Mahen $520,000 a year because of
   Maheu's Central Intelligence Agency expertise; Mahou
   reportedly claimed that one of his assignments for Hughes
   was to get the CIA to serve as a cover for the billionaire's
   activities, a request which Maheu says he refused to carry
   out; and Maheu claimed that Howard Hughes suggested that
   Maheu work out an arrangement whereby he or his organization
   could become a front for the CIA, another suggestion which
   Marea claims he did not undertake.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)