2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11 OCTOBER 1964

MGE 27. RECEIVED YOUR RM 44 AND 45. WHEN WE SAID THAT JUAN MANUE FERNANDEZ (A-27) COULD NOT BE INSTRUCTED, IT WAS BECAUSE HE EXPECT TO LEAVE THE COUNTRY. IN THE SAME MGE, WE ASKED YOU THAT HE BE SEPARATED FROM THE JAGUAR GROUP. HE WANTS TO LEAVE CUBA BECAU HE THINKS THAT CUBAN COMMUNISM WILL LAST A LONG TIME BEFORE BEING ELIMINATED FROM POWER AND THAT LIFE IN CUBA IS DIFFICULT FOR ALL MEN WHO DO NOT SUBMIT TO ITS DOCTRINE. THAT'S WHAT HE TOLD US. WHEN WE TOLD YOU OF OUR DESIRE TO TAKE LUIS RODRIGUEZ INTO OUR JAGUAR GROUP, WE DID SO ASKING YOUR PERMISSION. AFTERWARD WE WILL TELL HIM YOUR DECISION IN THIS CASE. WE FURTHER PROPOSED THAT HE (RODRIGUEZ) BE GIVEN NUMBER A-27 WHICH WAS ABANDONED BY FERNANDEZ. WE REMEMBER. WE ARE AWAITING YOUR AUTHORIZATION TO INSTRUCT A-35 IN SW. WE KNOW OF NO CASES OF OFFICIALS WHO ARE IN PRISON FOR AFFECTING THE ECONOMY. ON THE ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST FIDEL, WE KNOW THEY TOOK TWO CIVILIANS WOUNDED BY SHOOTING TO THE CALIXTO GARCIA HOSPITAL. MOMENTS LATER, TWO SOLDIERS FROM FIDEL'S GUARDS PRESENTED THEMSELVES IN SAID HOSPITAL TAKING AWAY THE WOUNDED. WE DO NOT KNOW MORE DETAILS..

IN THE LAST DAYS OF LAST MONTH, 70 TRACKED TANKS ENTERED A CAMP LOCATED BETWEEN SANTA MARIA DEL ROSARIO AND EL COTORRO. THE TANKS WERE TRANSPORTED ON TRAILERS FROM WHERE WE DO NOT KNOW. (A-24)

THE 4TH OF OCTOBER, THE RUSSIAN SHIP "SIRHOTE ALIN" ENTERED THE MARIEL PIER COMING FROM THE USSR WITH TOTAL CARGO OF CHEMICAL FERTILIZER IN BULK. REPORT JULIO CAMBAS WHOSE SECOND NAME IS TEXCIDO. REPEAT. SECOND NAME OF JULIO (TEXCIDO). A-7 = A-9.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

THE CREW OF THE SHIP IS SOVIET AND NORMAL. THE NEWS OF THE FLEEING
OF COMMANDANT "CONTRERAS", CHIEF OF THE CUARENTENARIO BASE,
TOGETHER WITH A GROUP OF OFFICERS AND FRIENDS HAS BEEN CONFIRMED.
THERE ARE NUMEROUS PERSONS UNDER ARREST IN SAID BASE FOR NOT
HAVING PREVENTED THEIR FLIGHT. ANOTHER SIMILAR GROUP FLED
FROM THE GRAMMA BASE. ALL THE DESERTERS FLED IN CUBAN NAVY
LAUNCHES. WE SUSPECT THAT AT THIS MOMENT, THEY ARE IN U.S.
TERRIROTY. IF IT IS SO, WE ARE VERY HAPPY BECAUSE OF THE GREAT
DEAL THESE REPENTANT ONES KNOW. A-7 = A-9 = A-15. ΤΟ ΒΕ
CONTINUED IN 28. ALSO REPORT ON NATIONAL BANK. GREETINGS. JUAN.
END END END


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)