1104-10075-10225 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ROUTING

1. 4
2. 5
3. 6

DIRECTOR

C/SAS 5

TION. DDP, ADDP, D/OC 2, VR

IN 69411

SECPET 2722402
DIP CITE WAVE 8225
PYPATTYPIC ARPANTY FEDGUP COMMO

REFS: A. WAVE 8064 (IN 66850)
B. WAVE 827! (IN 66867)
C. WAVE 8272 (IN 66868)
D. WAVE 8074 (IN 66883)
E. WAVE R125 (IN 67242)
F. WAVE 8196 (IN 67216)
P. WAVE 8126 (IN 67381)

1. FOL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS A THRU A.

A. 43. ENTERING DIRECTLY THE PLACE. TEODORO IS IN CHARE OF
TUF VIGILANCE OF KARAT ONE. ARLE, WHO IS ANIRAL'S PAN, IS IN CHARGE OF
KAPAT TWO.. DOCTOR JIVEKES IS IN CHAPRE OF THE INTELLIGENCE FOR KARAT
ONE. THIS YAN OR. JIFEED VED UY PANCHO VILLA IN KERE BEFORE.
ACULES.

44. ITO. THESE ARE DATA ON DAVID'S PAN AND THEDR
    FUNCTIONS. DATA ON EL BALLDOZER. MIGUEL SUAREZ MERKENDEZ. 30 YEARS
20. BORN IN 1933. UE DO NOT HAVE THE DAY AND POSH. SON OF FATED A
    JOSEFA. WORKS IN THE LATER SUPPLY LINE OF BOCA DEL CALAFRE. IS PARA ILD
    AND HAS CHILDREN. LIVES ON THE BEACH OF BOCA DEL CALAFRE. WILL WORK

SECRET

11044


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

IN RECEPTIONS. DATA ON EL PIRATA. JOSE TE FRANA CARMONA. ALIAS EL
NTO. IF OWNER OF THE 14 FOOT BOAT WITH A 6 HORSE POWER NOTOR WHO
VILL VPK IN RECEPTIONS. 93 YEARS OLD. BORN IN 90CA PALAFRE ON 19
APC 1949. YAPR LED AND HAS A CHILDREN. FISHERPAN. CONTINUES.

..BON OF ANDR20 AND ALTA TRACIA. LIVES IN ROCA DE CALAFRE.
THE NAME OF HIS BOAT IS "LA CIVICTA DATA ON ELL VIGILANTE. THIS MA
(also rand TORRADO)
CIVES HIS HOUSE TO LOCATE THE RADIO OPERATOR. ROBERTO ROTTADO CACERES.
37 YEARS OLD. PORN ON 19 SEPTEMBER 1896, SON OF HERMINIO AND MARIETA.
LIVES ON THE SANTA ROSA FARP ON THE HIGHWAY OF SAN JUAN DEL GALAPPE
KILOVETER 9. INEL LATER SEND THE COORDINATES. IS A TAXI DRIVER.
DATA ON ELPATRICIA. HIS SAFE KOUSE. ESTEBAN SUAREZ ROJAS. 56 YEARS
20. 1, SON OF PABLO AND ISABELA. MARRIED
AND HAS CHILDREN, LIVES IN LA PALMA FARM. CONT INUES.

D. 46 FARMER. I VILL LATER SEND YOU THE EXACT LOCATION BY
CODIVAlta
SEID SET OF RAPS ON COLIERI. RECEIVED YOUR MESSAGE 82.
ACULES.

Σ. 47. στο YOU SHOULD WARN SAULO THE GREAT DANGER ARTACAN
IS IN IF HE REVEALS ANYTHING ON THE TYPE OF WORK THAT WAS ENTRUSTED TO
S
HII IN CUM. DEVIL NOT USE POSITION COT OPRA ACAIN. WE ARE AVAITING
FDEUS FRO FARCHO VILLA IF HE HAS RETRIEVED CACHE NORTE THREE.
PLACIDO MAZED REATE FOUR THE CACHE YOU TOLD HIS WAS LOCATED O FRONT
PAP THIS HAS BEEN FOUND BY A TIMER WHO DELIVERED ALL

TOTE CATIA, IRECEIVED YOUR ЧЕ ББА СЕ
PETODE IS ROTRING SERIOUS IN PY GAL RIEOS'S LETTER.

UR
... KATION IS DAT FD 11 יש
LAST YEAR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE | SECRET | IN 0474 PAGE

FACTORY. THERE A PUBLIC DEMONSTRATION WAS GIVEN IN FOLLOWING THE TRAIL AND FIDING A MAN THROUGH OBSTACLES, SUCH AS SUGAR CANE, WEEDS, AND SO ON. THESE ANIMALS ARE NOW IN SANTIAGO DE LAS VEGAS. SOURCE OF INFORMATION, OWNER OF FARY ADJACENT TO THE TOLEDO SUGAR FACTORY. TEODORO INFORMED. REPORTED BY ANTONIO ON 15 NOVEMBER. AQUILES.

50. OTTO. RECEIVED MESSAGE NUMBER 87. AQUILES.

2. WAVE COMMENTS: RE REF. A. KARAT ONE AND TWO REFER TO OPERATION

NO WAVE TRACES SUBJS REFR. AND REF C. REF E. SAULO REFUGEE (later read 73 DRIJ) IN MEXICO, COTORRA IS COBRA 13 DPP.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)