# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10326-10056

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-3101938 SENSIND: PAGE: 1

SECRET

STAFF

ACTION: CE/R/ISP (114) INFO: C/ORMS, CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, CTC/COPS, CTC/IFC,
CTC/OOG, CTCARCHIVE, D/OSE, EUR/BCIR, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, OSE/RAD, FILE,
C/CTC, CE/IS, DC/CTC (4/W)

96 3101938 ASR PAGE 001 IN 3101938
TOR: 062041Z FEB 96 OTTA 90713

SECRET 062038Z FEB 96 STAFF

CITE OTTAWA 90713

TO: DIRECTOR INFO MOSCOW.

FOR: LIMIT CE/R/ISP INFO EUR/BCIR, OSE/LD, D/OSE, OSE/RAD

SLUGS: WNINTEL INTEL

SUBJECT: OPS INTEL: ISIW INTERVIEW REPORT ON GEORGI ENEROVICH MAMEDOV

REF: NONE.

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE REVIEW THE FOLLOWING DEBRIEFING
   REPORT FROM THE CANADIAN DEPARTMENT OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS'S
   INTERVIEW PROGRAM, CLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL CAN UK US AUS NZ EYES
   ONLY, DATED 08 JANUARY 1996, NUMBERED ISIW 922-1-7. ADVISE IF
   WE SHOULD RESUBMIT ANY OF THE FOLLOWING IN INTEL FORMAT. THIS REPORT MAY
   BE SHARED WITH DI ANALYSTS. THE INTERVIEW WAS CONDUCTED DURING
   AN OVER TWO HOUR CAR RIDE BETWEEN MONTREAL AND OTTAWA.

- CONFIDENTIAL-WNINTEL--NOFORN--REL CAN/US/UK/AUS/NZ

COUNTRY: RUSSIA

SUBJ: GEORGI ENEROVICH MAMEDOV, DEPUTY MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

DOI: DECEMBER 1995

SOURCE: A CANADIAN OFFICIAL WHO HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CHAT
INFORMALLY WITH MAMEDOV.

SUMMARY: NONE.

1. SOME OBSERVATIONS AND IMPRESSIONS: GEORGI ENEROVICH
   ((MAMEDOV)) IS UNPRETENTIOUS AND TRAVELS LIGHT; FOR A THREE-DAY
   TRIP HIS LUGGAGE CONSISTED OF ONE GARMENT BAG WHICH HE HANDLED
   HIMSELF AS HEAD OF A DELEGATION HE EXPRESSED CONCERN FOR

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO9.6-31.0.1.9.3.8-

SECRET

SENSIND:

MEMBERS WHO DID NOT SPEAK ENGLISH AND HOPED PROVISIONS WOULD BE
IN PLACE TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE FULLY IN THE SCHEDULED
MULTILATERAL MEETINGS. HURRYING TO A RECEPTION SHORTLY AFTER
ARRIVAL FOLLOWING A LONG FLIGHT, HE DID NOT WISH TO BE LATE BUT
NEITHER DID HE WANT TO LEAVE OTHER DELEGATES FAR BEHIND. WHEN
IT WAS MENTIONED THAT THEY WOULD HURRY ONCE THEY SAW HE WAS
READY, HE COMMENTED -- WITHOUT ANY HINT OF REGRET -- THAT
EVERYONE WAS DEMOCRATIC NOW AND IT NO LONGER WORKED THAT WAY.

2. HE EVIDENTLY HAS A GREAT INTEREST IN, AND RESPECT
   FOR, THE JAPANESE, REFERRING TO THEM AS A SPECIAL CIVILIZATION.
   AT THE RECEPTION, HE AND JAPANESE DELEGATES AGREED TO MEET LATER
   THAT NIGHT FOR FURTHER DISCUSSIONS IN SPITE OF SOME BADLY NEEDED
   REST.

3. A PERSON WHO LIKES TO ESTABLISH A ONE-ON-ONE
   RAPPORT, HE EXPRESSED A REGRET AT NOT SPEAKING SPANISH SINCE
   LATIN AMERICA IS ONE OF HIS MAIN AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY. HE
   NOTED THAT LATIN AMERICANS DO NOT REALLY OPEN UP WHEN SPEAKING
   THROUGH INTERPRETERS. TIME CONSTRAINTS PREVENT HIM FROM
   LEARNING SPANISH AT PRESENT.

4. ECOLOGY - A SPECIAL CONCERN: MAMEDOV SHOWED A
   PARTICULAR CONCERN FOR ECOLOGY AND NOTED THAT RUSSIA WOULD NEED
   HELP IN DEALING WITH ITS PROBLEMS IN THIS AREA. HE RUEFULLY
   COMMENTED THAT MAN WAS THE ONLY CREATURE THAT WOULD DESPOIL HIS
   ENVIRONMENT. THE PROBLEM WAS A GLOBAL ONE AND REQUIRED
   CONCERTED COOPERATION ON AN INTERNATIONAL LEVEL.

5. PROBLEM AREAS FOR RUSSIA: ACCORDING TO MAMEDOV,
   RUSSIA'S CURRENT OPEN BORDERS MAKE THE COUNTRY VULNERABLE TO
   TERRORIST INCURSIONS (IRAN AND AFGHANISTAN WERE MENTIONED) AND
   TO THE OVERFLOW ONTO RUSSIAN TERRITORY OF BORDER CONFLICTS.
   WHEN PROBLEMS BEGAN IN AZERBAIJAN, IRAN SENT FIGHTING UNITS
   ACROSS THE BORDER TO ASSIST AZERIS; RUSSIA WAS NOT NOTIFIED.
   THE PROXIMITY OF THE CONFLICT IN FORMER YUGOSLAVIA AND ITS
   POSSIBLE ESCALATION IS VERY WORRISOME. THE CIVIL WAR IN
   CHECHNYA HAS THE POTENTIAL OF BECOMING MORE SERIOUS AND IS A
   VERY TROUBLESOME ISSUE.

6. THE ECONOMIC TRANSITION: MAMEDOV ASSESSES THAT
   INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS, PARTICULARLY WITH CANADA AND THE UNITED
   STATES, WILL BE STRENGTHENED THROUGH COMMERCIAL TIES. ECONOMIC
   DEVELOPMENTS IN RUSSIA STILL HAVE 50% GOVERNMENT INVOLVEMENT.
   THE BANKING SECTOR IS MAKING PROGRESS TOWARDS
   INTERNATIONAL-STYLE BANKING. YOUNG MANAGERS (MID 30'S) ARE
   INTRODUCING NEW IDEAS, WHILE OLDER EXPERIENCED STAFF PROVIDE THE
   NECESSARY ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT. THE CURRENT PERIOD IN WHICH
   RUSSIA IS BEING ROBBED BY SOME, IS SYMPTOMATIC OF TRANSITIONAL
   UPHEAVAL AND IS COMPARABLE TO THE POST CIVIL WAR ERA IN THE
   UNITED STATES WHEN A NUMBER OF ITS CITIZENS ACQUIRED WEALTH-I-N
   THE 1960'S, THE U.S. WENT THROUGH A STAGE_OF_MILITANT LABOR
   UNIONISM_ASSOCIATED_WITH_MOB ACTIVITIES A CASE IN POINT, THE
   ACTIVITIES OF HOFFA AND HIS ALLEGED ORDERING OF THE
   *<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY>OFFERS AN ILLUSTRATIVE

SECRET

PAGE:

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-3101938                                                                                       PAGE: 3

SENSIND:

EXAMPLE. (FIELD COMMENT: THE SOURCE PROVIDED THE QUALIFIER ON
*THE "ALLEDGED" NATURE OF MOB INVOLVEMENT IN THE<KENNEDY>
*<ASSASSINATION, >WHICH MAMEDOVJAPPARENTLY REPEATED AS IF IT WERE
ESTABLISHED FACT.)

COMMENTS ON TERRORISTS: TERRORISTS EVEN THOSE WHO
OPERATE UNDER THE GUISE OF RELIGIOUS FERVOR, NORMALLY HAVE AN
UNDERLYING FINANCIAL MOTIVE ACCORDING TO MAMEDOV. RUSSIA, AS
OTHER COUNTRIES, IS ESPECIALLY CONCERNED THAT ADEQUATE
SAFEGUARDS BE IN PLACE TO PREVENT TERRORISTS FROM ACQUIRING
NUCLEAR MATERIALS. RUSSIA ALSO WANTS TO SEE AN IMPROVED
INTERNATIONAL LEGAL FRAMEWORK TO DEAL MORE EFFECTIVELY WITH
TERRORISTS AND PREVENT THEM FROM TAKING ADVANTAGE OF LEGAL
LOOPHOLES.

8. MAMEDOV ALSO MADE THE FOLLOWING COMMENTS ON SEVERAL
   PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES

((ZYUGANOV)) - ECONOMIC HARDSHIPS AND THE RESULTING
DISCONTENT HAVE ENHANCED HIS CHANCES AT THE PRESIDENCY. IT
WOULD NOT BE OF CRITICAL CONCERN SHOULD HE WIN THE COMING
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS SINCE THE COMMUNISTS HAVE UNDERGONE A
TRANSFORMATION AND WOULD NEITHER BE ABLE NOR WILLING TO TURN THE
CLOCK BACK. THE NEW RUSSIAN COMMUNISTS WOULD BE SIMILAR TO
ITALIAN COMMUNISTS BUT MAMEDOV WOULD DREAD TO SEE AN
ITALIAN-TYPE POLITICAL SCENARIO IN RUSSIA. THE RETURN OF
COMMUNIST PRESIDENTS IN POLAND, HUNGARY AND ROMANIA HAS NOT
CAUSED DISRUPTIONS IN THEIR RELATIONS WITH WESTERN NATIONS, NOR
SHOULD THIS HAPPEN WITH RUSSIA.

((ZHIRINOVSKY)) - A POLITICAL HOOLIGAN, ZHIRINOVSKY HAS
LOTS OF FINANCIAL BACKING. WITH HIS ATTENTION-GRABBING ANTICS,
HE PROVIDES A DIVERSION WHILE OTHER ELEMENTS CARRY ON THEIR
UNSAVORY (I.E. CRIMINAL) ACTIVITIES. IT REMINDS ONE OF THE
RUSSIAN TALE WHERE TWO CHARACTERS DISTRACT A CROWD WHILE THE
THIRD IS BUSY RIFLING THEIR POCKETS. ZHIRINOVSKY HAS PRESENTED
NO SERIOUS PROGRAM TO PERMIT HIM TO ATTRACT SUFFICIENT VOTES.

((LEBED))- WITH HIS BASS VOICE AND PRONOUNCEMENTS THAT
APPEAL TO THE DISCONTENTED, HE HAS EARNED SOME POPULARITY, BUT
HE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO COME UP WITH SOLID PROPOSALS FOR CHANGE
AND WILL NOT BE A SERIOUS CONTENDER FOR THE PRESIDENCY.

9. RELATIONS WITH CANADA: MAMEDOV FAVORS CLOSER TIES
   WITH CANADA AND PARTICULARLY IN THE ECONOMIC SPHERE. THE
   HALIFAX SUMMIT AND ((YELTSIN'S)) BACKING FOR STRONGER ECONOMIC
   COOPERATION WAS AN IMPORTANT STEP FORWARD (I.E. THE CENTRAL
   GOVERNMENT'S BLESSING IS ESSENTIAL TO MAKE THINGS HAPPEN). THE
   NORTH IS AN IMPORTANT COMMON FACTOR. FOR RUSSIA, DEVELOPMENT OF
   THEIR NORTHERN SEA ROUTE WILL BE A HIGH PRIORITY AS IT WILL
   PROVIDE A SHORTER LINK TO INTERNATIONAL SHIPPING ROUTES.
   ECOLOGICAL CLEAN-UP-WAS ALSO MENTIONED_IN_THE_CANADA/RUSSIA
   CONTEXT BECAUSE OF ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MHFNO:/96-3101938

SECRET
SENSIND:
PAGE: 4

2. FILE: 014-005-039. CL REASON 1.5(B). DECL ON: X5
   DRV LIA-1.
   END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)