# SECRET

Chief, Contact Division
Support Branch

Chief, Chicago Field Office

23 Dec 1963

CHI-63-1314
Hargrave Secret Service

1.  Al Thompson recently asked me for my opinion of Hargrave Secret Service, 6 West Randolph Street, Chicago, Insofar as (cover) potential is concerned.

2.  Chicago Field Office files contain no information on the company. The Chicago telephone directory reflects the company was formed in 1888 and has offices and/or representatives in the principal cities of the world. (see attached Redbook ad).

3.  Local FBI contacts had no information concerning the company. Albert Johnson, an ex-FBI man who has operated a private detective agency in Chicago for years told me that George R. Hargrave is sole owner and is the son of the founder. Mr. Johnson described Hargrave as a big, 250 pound man who has been married five times. In business, he is the type to put on a big show and is not averse to putting more men than necessary, on a job in order to charge his client a higher price and profit accordingly. Mr. Johnson said that, although Hargrave advertises offices throughout the world he doubts that these are any more than investigative correspondent.

4.  A casual inquiry put to Richard Cain, Chief Investigator, Cook County Sheriff's Office, brought forth the comment that Cain distrusts Hargrave. He said he knows him personally and does not regard him as a discreet person.

5.  In view of the above, Cover may want to reconsider using Hargrave.

R.F.B. Lohmann

KPBL/jak

Attachment

# SECRET

> GROUP 1
> Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)