# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

SECRET 191645Z CITE SAN SALVADOR 6756

JMHAVE INFO DIRECTOR

REFS: A. SAN SALVADOR 6727 (~32525)

B. SAN SALVADOR 36711 (~2.0433)

SUBJECT REF A NOT YET LOCATED BY NATIONAL GUARD BUT STATION WOULD LIKE AMMUG-1 TO STAND BY IF POSSIBLE FOR THIS AND OTHER OPERATIONAL POSSIBILITIES INVOLVING DOI TRAINED SALVADORANS KNOWN TO AMMIG-1.

2. AT OUR REQUEST JUSLOOP-1 HAS ORDERED ARREST OF JOSE REMBERTO CARRILLO CALDERON (281-758959). STATION PASSED CARRILLO'S ADDRESS IN AHUACHAPAN PLAN IS TO HAVE CARRILLO BROUGHT TO ISOLATED NATIONAL GUARD HEADQUARTERS IN SAN SALVADOR WHERE HE WILL BE INTERROGATED AND RECRUITMENT ATTEMPTED FOR JOINT OPERATION AGAINST PCES.

3. ALEJANDRO GONEZ MONTANO (281-751265) IS SUBJECT OF REF B RECRUITMENT INDUCEMENT LETTER. WAS ARRESTED BY POLICE ON 29 MARCH 1967 FOR NOT POSSESSING LEGAL IDENTIFICATION CARD. UNILATERAL AGENT JUMUD-13 CANNOT PROMISE THAT GONEZ CAN BE DETAINED ANY LONGER SINCE LEGAL HEARING HAS BEEN HELD AND HE IS TO BE RELEASED AS SOON AS RELATIVES

![illegible writing]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

16-26

PAGE 2 SAN SALVADOR 6756 SECRET

POST NOMINAL BOND. IMKINENT RELEASE EXPECTED. JUMUD-13

I SAID HE THOUGHT HE COULD ARREST GOMEZ AGAIN 15 DAYS AFTER RELEASE AND HOLD HIM IN JAIL GVER VEEKEND TO ALLOW STATION.

TO MAKE RECRUITMENT PITCH. JURUD-13, HOWEVER, NOT VERY DEFINITE IN HIS OFFER AND SINCE HE HAS NOT BEEN ΤΗΣ MOST EFFECTIVE AGENT IN THE PAST, STATION PREFERS COMPLETELY UNILATERAL PITCH. AS SOON AS GOMEZ IS IS RELEASED AND RELOCATED, WE WILL REQUEST AMMUG-1 PRESENCE SAN SALVADOR TO MAXE UNILATERAL PITCH. IF IT BECOMES NECESSARY TO FALL BACK ON JOINT RECRUITMENT PITCH IN JAIL, ARNUG-1'S SERVICES WILL STILL BE NEEΟΣΟ.

SECRET

BT

MINH

8/R1


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)