# 104-10183-10259 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

S WA/SA #LV-750

13 October 1964

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: AAIMUO/1 Operation 06
Meeting with Colonel PORTES Saturday, 10 October 1984

REFERENCE: Memorandum dated 13 October 1964 06 concerning briefing of Colonel Feralta

06 1. Following the meeting described in the reference, Colonel Porres requested a separate meeting which was held on Saturday, 10 October 1984. Andy Rogers of the Guatemalan 03.16-2 Station was present at the meeting.

24
2. During the meeting the matters covered on the previous day with the Chief of State were reviewed and the specific action to be taken was indicated with agreement on the following points:

A. Special treatment should be given to the Caro Asiatigo" and the "Caso Hombres Banas" which Involved von Sosa, Luis Augusto TURCIOS Lima, 06 06 Manuel JOUE Ortega Paz, and one (Inu) (Inu) whom wo will be able to identify if shown a photograph. Every effort should be made to identify the last-named person and then to recruit all four of them. Meanwhile, all Information available concerning them should bo collected and furnished to the Station for forwarding/6-2 to Headquarters. The object in each of these cases should be to achieve contacts with them for the purpose of effecting recruitments. If required, we will have a Cuban who knows the individuals and whom they believe to be a Cuban Intelligence officer go to (6-2 Guatemala for the purpose of contacting them under controlled conditions which will permit us to monitor the conversation during the time that he poses as still active in Cuban Intelligence. Following this, the recruitment attempt would be made in each caso possibly by one of our officers if the circumstances

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

-2-

at the time indicate that this procedure would be most likely to be a success.

B. Without waiting for the outcome of effort to recruit the four individuals described above, the 24 Guatemalan government should bend every effort to locate all those individuals (possibly as many as 200) who have received guerrilla warfare training In Cuba, and to arrest them. Maximum publicity should be given to the arrests once they have been questioned. Hopefully declarations will be made by some of them which will assist in effective propaganda use of their arrest and their involvement in subversion on behalf of the Castro government. They should be interviewed separately and, if possible, some with greater potential should be doubled so that they may serve to keep us informed of plans for subversion in the future.

C. The Guatemalans should keep us advised at every stage of the progress made in the cases so that we may lend assistance when appropriate.

3. Colonel Porres said that he understood the Importance of the case and would do his utmost to follow through in line with the action proposed above. He said that although he does not have a largo organization, it is secure and is capable of collecting information and of arranging for the arrests and interrogation.

4. Colonel Porres discussed three other cases (the ALFARO caso, the case of Luiz Ramirez and the case of Nestor JORDI Chambonyer). Rogers sald that full details concerning the ALFARO case had been sent to Headquarters.24 This is the same case which according to the Chief of State involved a Mexican courier acting on behalf of the Cuban intelligence service. Colonel Porres said that this individual is still in jail in Guatemala The [Jordi)and (Paratrez cases are being made the subjects of separate memoranda.

Harold F. Ewenson
Chief, WIL/SA/CI


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)