14-00000
104-10173-10078
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

17 June 1963

CONTACT REPORT: VASLOUCH/2, DI UBALDO, and DOREMOSE

DATES : 19 & 20 May 1983

PLACE : Sands Hotel
Miami Beach, Florida

1. DOREMOSE and DI UBALDO arrived by taxi at the Sands Hotel at approximately 2330 hours and in the lobby passed the Subject, her traveling companion, Mrs. DI SILVA (mother of Brasilien charge GAMBOA) and Mr. & Mrs. Kurt PLASTEREK (See Contact Report dated 3 May 1963) with whom they had spent the evening. While the two case officers were negotiating rooms with the desk clerk, VASLOUCH/2 made a point of asking for her key which indicated her room number and the case officers were therefore able to get rooms on the floor just below hers. (NOTE: Our contacts with VASLOUCH/2 were dependent upon the amount of time she could spend away from her unwitting traveling companion.) As previously arranged, DI UBALDO went to the Subject's hotel room at 0700 hours the next morning and brought her to his room where the debriefing took place. At the out-set DOREMOSE was introduced as William Cline and it was explained that DI UBALDO was moving out of the operation. This initial meeting which lasted until 0900 hours was confined primarily to two topics; one, VASLOUCH/1's contact with and cultivation of Francisco SANCHEZ who is charged with some road building projects


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

in Oriente Provinco and who is a closo associate of Dr. Rane
VALLEJO, a key advisor to CASTRO and two, the recent social
cultivation of the VASLOUCHES by an officer of the Soviet Embassy.
The facts developed on the second subject are as follows: For
several years VASLOUCH/2 had been contacted at the Brasilian
Embassy by Valentine S. LOCUINOV, an attache at the Soviet
Rabsesy. These conteeta took place every two or three months
when LOGUINOV would bring visa requests from his Anbassy. The
last of these business contacts was in February of this year.
On 27 April, while VASLOUCH/2 was in Mexico City, LOGUINOV
phoned the Brazilian Ambassy asking for VASLOUCH/2 and when
informed that she was not in, requseted her boas phone maber
(walisted) from the girl answering the phone, Hilda BOLIVAR
(girl friend of SANCHEZ). The girl refused to give out the
maber. et 1000 ca 1 May, LOGUTNOV apparently having acquired
the number from the consular list, called VASLOUCH/2 at her
hose only to be told that VASLOUCH/2 was working that morning
at the Brasilian Babassy. He finally got VASLOUCH/2 on the
telephone at 1600 houre and stated that the date vas an
Important holiday for him and that he wished to visit the
VASLOUCHES with his family to bring a mall present for VARIOUCH/2.
LOGUINOV and family arrived at VASLOl1/2's home at 1300 hour
and stayed until 2100 hours. The prelimt was a bottle of "Red

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

Moscow parfuse. The evening was confined to onmall talk. On 3 May, LOCUINOV again called and made a dinner date with VASLOUCH/2 and her husband for 10 May. LOCUIROV and wife pickod up the VASLOUCHES in their private ear and the evening (2130 - 0030) was spent at the Capri Restaurant. Because of the noise from the floor show, again little of note was discussed. The cost of the meal was appresimately $10. At the restaurant, LOCUIKOV invited the VASLOUCHES to attend a reception and showing of the Soviet passenger place, TU-114, to be held at 12:30 14 May. VASLOUCH/2 did not attend because sha vas leaving for Miani. When VASLOUCH/1 telephoned VASLOUCH/2 in Misai on 17 May, be contioned, in German, that Valentine had again dropped by. Frea these contacts with LOGUIKOV the following had boan observed by VASLOUCH/2. He is approximately 32 years old, speake fluent Spanish with just a slight seccat and a little English. He has been in Cuba three years and was fluent in Spanish when he arrived. He is approximately 6 feet tall, weighs about 185 lbs., strongly built, has blue eyes, blond wavy hair, concave forehead, good scoth, and dresses well ath cost and sesktis. He drives himself in an American car (Dodge?) with non-diplocatie plates. He stokes and drinks in moderation. He has a three and onethalf year old sou, an eleven year old daughter and his parents and his wiln's parents are living in Moscow. His wife's name is Alenaadva, she is attractive and vorks in the consular office. Har iniish is poor. Ha vas aware that VASLOUCH/2 had visited Healer recently and also know that the VABLOCKER daughter was vith, the Brasilien Babassy la

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

Moscow. Also that VASLOUCH/I had recently been back to Finland. One thing that stayed in 1/2's mind was thet in conversation with LOGUINOV he referred on three oscasions to the possibility that their daughter wight very well marry a Russien, a point that might relate to any operational approach LOGUINOV may make to the VASLOUCHES. V/2 stated that LOGUINOV was the only one that had ever come to the Brasilien Babassy regarding vises. She also stated that over the past years she has called his office four or five times regarding vises and has never been able to reach him. 7/2 also recalled that during their outing at the Capri Restaurant LCGUINOV stated that he was planning to rent a beach house and was looking forward to the VASLOUCHES spending time with his and his wife there during the sumer Benthe. V/1 Inquired as to the whereabouts of the former PRAVDA correspondent, Borovsky, and was told he was in Moscow.

2. The Finaish Ambassador in Hashington has been kept Informed en LOGUINOV's advances toward the SLOUCHES. His only comment at this point was that "they are after something." V/2 hes advised CAMPOA whose reaction has been to encourage the relationship in hopes of acquiring soma political information from LOCUINOV. The Finnish Ambassador also detailed/that/dating-24/bangla/ stated in his telephone conversation with V/2 in Hiasi that he had requested that the SLOUCHES installation ba elevated and given diplocatie: status. Ho sapressed saprise that stoppy of his letter to tho Cuban Foreign Ministry had not


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

been received by V/1 and proaised a special delivery copy of
it to V/2 in Misal, Relating to this, 1/2 stated to the C/C
that in ons of V/1's meetings with CORONA of the Foreign Offico,
CORONA stated that he was requesting Helsinki to raise the
status of its representation in Havana and to post a charge
there. V/2 was told by the C/O that after checking with
Headquarters soncerning LOCUINOV's background, specific guldanes
on how to handle the relationship would be forthcoming.

3. From SANCHEZ, V/i elicited road building information
   which he had put on an overlay which was passed by V/2 (sont
   to SAS Reports), SANCHEZ bad invited. 7/1 to Oriente Province
   with him in the near future to see some of his projects.
   Reluctantly we instructed 1/2 to tell V/1 to turn down the
   Lnvitation on grounds of ill health but to leave the way open:
   for a similar invitation in the future. It was thought that
   this was best until we could assess LOGEINOV's interest in the
   VASLOUCHES. V/2 also passed the war namse V/1 had assigned to
   his principaleontacts and a diagram of the Brazilian Embassy
   including measurements of the out building which DI UBALDO had
   discussed with V/2 in Mexico City relating to its possible usa
   as a deed drop. A pamphlet entitled, blas of Experta and
   Imnesia of Suhen Zexalza Ikada Bakezuriage, also was passed.
   (Sent to SAS/Reports.) A list of naavil passed showed numbers
   and some other data on those passengers which had departed
   Cuba in two Cubana flights to Brasil Bar the purpose of picking
   the Cuban aporte teen la Brazil (anut 20 JAS/RE).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

4. On 19 May DI. UZALDO returned to washington, DORENOSE met with V/2 on 20 May, from 0700 - 0900 hours. At this meeting, V/2 was given the KEYWAY sterile phone number and told that all future contact should be made to Cline using this number. She was also given our initial assessment of the significance of LOGUIROV's approach (the traces from Headquarters had still not bean received). In our opinon there were three possibilities and two of them vero unlikely. First, LOGUINOV's approsch could be an innocent one and be merely for the purpose of establishing a friendship, an extension of this thought would be the possibility of tis interesting in defecting. Given the aga difference in the two couples and weighing other factors, this was considered unlikely. The second possibility is that the Soviets have been alerted, possibly by V/1's open code cable to Finland, to the SLOUCIES possible involvement with the Americans. This also is unlikely for had this ban the case the last thing the Soviets vould wish to do would be to alert the SLOUCHES to the fact that they wern ander suspicion and back therefore bring about a cut An their mitiviths. (COMMENT: LOGUIMOV's sudden and fairly intensin tultivation effort hes had just this effect.) The third and must likely possibility is that the Soviets are cultivating 1/2 hr use as a penetration of the Brazilian Babassy. V/2 accepted the case officer's

6

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

assessment as valid and in keeping with her own thoughts. She was told that final guidance on this matter would be given her et e subsequent soeting to be held in the afternoon after DORKNOSE had received the Headquarters traces. The discussion then went to the communications.

6. When the subject stated that her husband was unable to bring out either the pads or his Lastruations on how to use the pads which had been given him in New York, it was decided to issue two redused size OTP's concealed in a shaving kit. 8/W Lastructions on the use of the CTP would be passed by BARKAR in Mexico City. She was told that BARKER would be in the lobby of the Hilten Hotel in Mexico City at 0730 on 23 Hay. When they have recogalzed osch other she should follow his froa the Hotel. If BARKER is veable to make the coatset he is to tolephone her later in the day weing the name BETO. Subject was told that we were unable to come up, as yet, with an extended das1-earphone sot which she had requested, but this would be available for the next conteer leter in the summer.

7. Toward the end of the mosting, Subject passed trans-lations she had made of notes given her by 7/1 which he believed to be of intelligence interest. (They are included es Attachment A). Unfortunately, Dasi was mable to review tasse reports with her but she was pursuaded by turn over Finnish language motes and the carben copy of 7/11 latter to his ambassador (a translation of which is Attas/jinant 9). The C/O requested the name of a person in Halsingh to voald have reasca to write to 1/1 bat who is not doing so 41:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

the nase of V/1's aunt, Kaisa RAIKKONEN. She was told that some
of the incoming S/W in the future would be written in Finnish,
mailed in Helsinki, and estensibly come from this person.
Subject stated that she would depart Miami by Guest Airlines
on 22 May 1963. The wasting was conducted hurriedly and
necessarily and conchuded at 0900 hours. Plans were made for
the Subject to return for a brief contact with DORKNOSE between
1430 and 1600 hours after finding sono excuse to get away from
her companion.

8. Subject was unable to break away from her companion
   in time to make the scheduled meeting and when she telephoned
   to so cotify DORENOSE she was erroneously Laforsed by the hotel
   desk that DORKNOSE bad checked out. After some difficulty,
   DORKNOSE was able to contact her and a brief resting was hold
   at 2100 hours. It was at this meating that instructions were
   givan V/2 to tighten up on their security siting the dangers
   of audio-surveillance and the necessity for great care when
   mailing the letters out. For her benefit, KUBARK security in
   dealing with her case wan emphasized. She was also instructed
   to react with disbelief nasbined with Indignation if a recruit-
   mant pitch was made to elther of thes. She was also urged not
   to incourage further social contact with the LOCUINOV's in
   hopes that LOGUINOV would lose interest. She was advised that
   her daughter should be entouraged to Llave Moscow if the

8

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

Brazilian Ambassador is transferred in late fall. If this does not come off, when V/2 visits her daughter in the fall she should attempt, under some pretext, to have her daughter leave Russia.
The case officer was careful not to alarm V/2 and to convey the impression that her daughter's present plight had no relation to her intelligence involvement with ODYOKE. On the contrary, she was very fortunate to have us to advise her on how best to deal with her problem.

V/2 was concerned about her daughter because her daughter had met socially with an OLACID officer in Moscow named Richard Jacobs who has since been pag'd by the Soviets. When asked about other contacts of her daughter's in Moscow she stated that her daughter was in love with one of the UAR Embassy secretaries who had left Moscow and was presently assigned in Tokyo. She mentioned that another UAR secretary stationed in Moscow named SALAH and the Consular, Asia Haase were acquaintances. Also a secretary of the Mexican Embassy named Areando CANTU.

She mentioned that during her scheduled fall visit to see her daughter she had promised to take her daughter to Tokyo to visit her boy friend. This was complicated however because this would infuriate V/1 who is strongly against the daughter marrying a Moslem. Subject was given $50. to off-set taxi fares, the cost of an antenna, and for good will. The meeting was concluded at 2107 when Mrs. DI SILVA was scheduled to get out of the bathtub. Two other names of possible interest were

9

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

![photo of document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

raised by V/2 during the contact. Eila HONKARALA, a Finnish female student in Havana and a rabid Communist and John RETTI, an English national met by V/2 in Mexico City. RETTI, a writer for the "Economist" and an employee of the BBC was once married to a Finn. RETTI was being assigned in Havana. His address in Mexico City: P.O. 1642 Mexico City 1, Mexico. Telephone number, 14-52-25.

1.0

SECRET

> [GROUP 1
> Excluded from automatic
> de-grading and
> reclassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

1. Source: Planca Nogueras Ficero (subsource not indicated). Spare parts from Fogland are sent to Monterey (Mexico), then to Yucatan and after that to Isles Materas and from there the Cuben fisherman take them to the Isle of Pines.

2. Source: Francisco Sanchez, Cuban road construction engineer - in discussing procurement of replacement parts for his equipment stated if the Americans have a subsidiary factory, for example Catapillar, with a factory in Europe, the spare parts are sent to East Germany and from there to Cuba..

3. Source: Blanca - The Headquarters of the Russians is in a tunnel at 36th Street, No. 62 on the corner of Street 39. It has twn entrances, one from the river and the other from the house of M. J. DlAz.

4. Source: Blanca - There to a Ilushin 28 in San Antonio de los Paños.

5. Source: Blanca - A former National Assembly (to Note: or Cuban equivalent) member, Diez Madrazo, stated that the refugee ship that went to Florida on 29 Api/carried two goverment agents, Jose Tiaz (el cojo) and huwife Yolanda Cisneros, whose address, is No. 7414 Avenue 15.

6. Orlando Puente, the private secretary of former President Prio, approached CAMOA's mother in Miami on 9 Mav stating that before she departed the country he would give her the name.of.a Cuban associate of Prio who is in much trouble and wants asvlim in the Brazilian Embassy.

7. Source: VASLOUCH/1 - on 4 May Eduardo Corone, Chief of the Occidental Furopean Countries Office stated to sto!CH/1 that he planned in the rear future to give a luncheon for the Northern European diplomats and at that lurcheon lie would purpose that the Northern countries put on an exposition in Cuba covering each countries. cultural and economic achieverents.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)