# SECRET

104-10183-10261 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Release

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

SECRET

SECRET 30221Z

SIR CITE SALV 5312

DYVOUR PERUMEN AMMUG

REFS A. SALV 5303 (IN83009)

B. DIR 53322

30 SEP SLIN 84511

1. LANGOSCH AND AMMUC I, ONCE EACH ALONE AND ONCE TOGETHER SAM [ ]UNAVE 1
   MORNING 30 SEPTEMBER. [ ]UNAVE I TOOK SAME POSITION AS PARA 2 REF A.
   DENIED KNOWING AMNUG DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS
   ANYTHING ABOUT CUBAN INTEL, AND DECIDED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
   LIFE ANEH.

2. OBTAINING TRUTH FROM [ ]UNAVE I WILL BE TIME CONSUMING. HE FULLY
   AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
   RELEASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
   HIM. SALV GOVT MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
   DUBIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
   OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST AS AGENT IF HE
   CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CUBAN INTEL OR PCES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
   DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST AMNUG TARGETS. IF HE SHOULD
   BE DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
   ENHANCE HIS VALUE. PROBABLY WOULD BE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV
   INCLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

SECRET

318R


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

1.  AS MATTERS STAND MOST IMPORTANT TO PROTECT KURARK EQUITY IN
    CLOSELY
    BY SPREAD OF NEWS ABOUT AMNOC EFFORTS ON BEHALF OF KUTIPA TO EFFECT
    RECRUITMENTS. BECAUSE OF VALUE OF [ ] HAVE 2, PREFER FOR PRESENT NOT
    TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING. AFTER [ ] HAVE
    IS PRODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVAL MUDARK CAN PROCEED WITH [LIAISON]
    RECRUITMENT EFFORTS AGAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH
    DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS.

4. PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF CUERRILLEROS TRAINED IN CUBA PROBABLY
   WOULD BE BENEFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO AMNOC. IN ADDITION
   TO BENEFITS OF CA PLAY, SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUBLED
   AND TARGETED AGAINST GUERRILLA GROUPS OR POP.

5. APPRECIATE PEF E TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FURTHER
   PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH JUHILL-1 AND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT. 01,08

SECRET
01
*[Unintelligible] AGREED WITH [Unintelligible]

HAVING WHEN LAUGUSCH WILL [Unintelligible] 02

SECRET

71BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)