# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Front: BOGOTA

No. of Pages: Two

## SECURITY INFORMATION

**CONFIDENTIAL**

Report No: TLB-1684 Local File No:

No. of Enclosures: None

Report Made By: George S. Vincent/mnf

Approved By: G. Vincent

Distribution:

Orally to:

By copy to:

Washington - 2

Havana - 1

Guatemala City - 1

Caracas - 1

Quito - 1

Maracaibo - 1

Guayaquil - 1

Files - 2

Source Cryptonym: See below

References: None

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

The information in this report was obtained from a local detective who works for the National Police. An informant of the Police in Paris provided a report to the latter concerning activities of the Colombian delegation, and he added names of delegates of certain other countries. This informant is studying in Paris and he accompanied the delegates to Berlin. It is likely that the interested stations have this information, but it is thought it might serve to confirm, or possibly add a bit to, the material already on hand.

![Signature]

1R. COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECURITY INFORMATION

![Form No. FEB 1940 51-99 logo]

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECURITY INFORMATION

**CONFIDENTIAL**

Subject: Delegates to Youth Festival
in Berlin.

Place Acquired: Colombia, Bogotá

Evaluation: 0-2

Source: Local Detective

Report No: TLB - 1634

Date of Information: August-September 1951

Date Acquired: January 1952

Date of Report:: 29 Jamary 1968

1.  Source reports that an informant in Paris has submitted information to the local Police concerning delegates of certain other countries to the III Festival Mundial de la Juventud held in Berlin in August and September 1961. Those names together with the comments of the informant are included in the following paragraphs.

2.  The delegation of Guatemala consisted of the followings:

Edelberto TORRES Rivas, Novena Ave. 8. No. 110
Octavio REYES Ortis, 17 0. 0. No. 78
Hugo BARRIOS Klee, 12 Calle Oriente No. 58
José Victor PONZALEZ, 2 Ave. Sur No. 11

3.  The following is a list of the Venesuelan delegates!

Juvenal HERRERA, estudiante de derecho

Francised MIERKS, peligroso

Cordova ARMANDO, estudiante de derecho in Cumaná

Nicolas CURIEL Acosta, escritor de teatro

Juan Pedro ROJAS, pintor

Yolanda Steffens de ROJAB, casada con el anterior

4.  The Equadoran delegates are as followes

Enrique Gil Gilbert, eseritor

Enrique QUINTBERO

Patricio CUEVAS, estudiante de medicina di Praga

5.  The delegation of Cuba consisted of the following:

Nicolas GUILLEN, poeth y escritor

Santiago GRAJALES, obrero

Antonio NUNEZ-Jimenes, (profesor) de, Podagogía y "responsable de la delegación de Cuba". Es peligroso y cuando hubo necesidad de retratarlo en Paris no se se dejó

Francisco GARCIA Bonites, comerciante de Holguin

José CAKETTI, comerciante en Santiago de Cuba

Classification **CONFIDENTIAL**

SECURITY INFORMATION


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)