2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED IT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MATLACK, DOROTHE K. (MRS)
LOOSE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: Army Document (Third Agency)

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 3 AUG 78      |               | BETH LICHTENFELS         |                                 |
| 24 AUG-78     |               | SUEELL BRADY             |                                 |
| 24 AUG 78     | SAME          | JAMES P. KELLEY          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# RECORD MATERIAL

DUE DATE
11. Aug. 53

1.  THIS DOCUMENT IS CHARGED TO YOU.

2.  RETURN THIS DOCUMENT TO IP/ARCHIVES, RM GA-50, ON OR BEFORE DATE INDICATED.

3.  IF YOU FORWARD THIS DOCUMENT TO ANOTHER INDIVIDUAL PLEASE CALL EXTENSION 4598

DO NOT REMOVE THIS FORM

FORM
3-77 179a USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

3. S. Corbet
   OG/EFR

To Requester:
Please return this reference to IP/ARD/PSU immediately after use..

RECORDS CENTER
JOB NO. 78-1939
SPACE NO. 325 583

FILE NO. Wach-CIA-PRO-384

DOCUMENT

FOLDER NO. 54

BOX NO. 3

15. RETURN TO:
    IP/ARD/PSU GA-50
    E2 IMPDET CL BY: 062147

FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS
3.82 EDITIONS

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

![stamp]

![stamp]

RI/ARCHIVES

![handwritten text] Mark CIA-PRO-384 folder 54


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CHILE

Apr. 4, 1952

## BRIEFS

WORKERS' HOUSING--An executive message to the Chamber of Deputies asks for the authorization of 120 million pesos for the construction of cheap housing for workers employed by the city of Santiago. The bill will be considered soon by the proper committee. (CE1180 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0030 GMT--R)

TRANSPORTATION APPROPRIATION--The Finance Ministry has dispatched the decree putting 94 million pesos at the disposal of the national transport authority for the acquisition of trolley buses and supplies to the comptroller's office. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

TEACHERS' STRIKE--At the meeting of striking teachers held Apr. 3 it was decided to adopt the following procedural points: 1--To continue the strike indefinitely; 2--to demand that salaries be fixed at a rate equal to that of the minimum paid to private employees, plus 20 percent; 3--to protest the refusal of two Deputies to give their votes to the craft of a bill to readjust the earnings of public officials, which also provides that exonerated Communist professors will be reinstated; 4--to protest an anti-strike editorial published in EL MERCURIO; 5--to meet on Apr. 4 at the University of Chile to determine the course to follow. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

COPPER SITUATION--The Minister of Labor has declared that as long as the Finance Ministry does not solve the problem of exchange, the nitrate dispute cannot be solved. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

FORSIGN MINISTRY--Juan (Marin) has been authorized to continue in his post as Chilean Charge d'Affairs in India, and Juan Guzman Cruchaga in his important Foreign Ministry assignment. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0100 GMT--R)

IMMIGRATION PLAN--The Sociedad Italiana plans to invest 100 million pesos for the purpose of cultivating and exploiting sugar beet crops in southern Chile with colonies of Italian immigrants. The society is collaborating with the Development Corporation and the Agricultural Settlement Fund and will exploit 16,609 hectares in the Province of Cautin for the purpose. (CE1174 Santiago, Apr. 4, 1952, 0300 GMT--R)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# RESTRICTED

- E 3 -

CHILE
Mar. 18, 1952

PRESS FIELDGH COMMITTLE--the fresident will form a committee for the purpose of studying laws which include repressive measures against the freedom of the press, on Mar. 18 at La Moneda. Press representatives are Emilio Pacul, Juan Honorato, and Mario Vergara. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952, 2322 GMT--R)

COAL SITUATION--Reports from the coal region state that the situation is normal and that the workers have decided to work with provincial authorities in trying to reach an agreement after the failure of the Santiago talks. Metallurgical workers at the Lota and Coronel mines have returned to work in accordance with union directives. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 17, 1952, 2325 GMT--R)

CHAMBER PRESIDENTIAL LINE-UP--Since the Chamber of Deputies will meet Mar. 18 to open the special session which will extend to May 21, it is interesting to note the position and strength of its members in regard to the roster of Fresidential aspirants: Favoring Arturo Matte Larrain are 33 Liberals, 2i Conservative-Traditionalists, 5 Agrarian Labcrites, 2 Liberal-Progressives, and one Independent Democrat, or a total of 63. Favoring Pedro Enrique Alfonso are 42 Radicals, 9 Conservatives and 5 Democrats: total, 56. Carlos Ibanez del Campo: 9 Agrarian Laborites, 5 Socialists, one People's Democrat, and 2 Independent Conservatives; total, 17. Salvador Allende: 6 Socialists and one National Front; total, 7. The only unknown positions and numbers are those of the National Falangists, and the Independent Deputy, Melendez Anfruns. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 16, 1952, 2350 GMT--R)

GATH Y CHAVEZ CLOSING--Gath y Chavez has announced a closing-out of its entire stock of merchandise, thus terminating the career of one of Santiago's best-known business houses. The company closed its doors last Christmas as a result of a strike declared by its personnel. (Santiago, AFP, Mar. 15, 1952, 0000 GMT--R)

IMMIGRATION PROGRAM--The bill drafted by the Government Immigration Committee, presided over by Under Secretary of the Interior Gres, is designed to legislate all matters connected with the immigration ef foreigners. The plan proposes the creation of an immigration department or office which will be under the jurisdiction.of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and which will be in charge of orienting all immigrants arriving in Chile. Also under consideration is the plan to exempt all immigrants from paying taxes for a period of 5 years. This would include custors duty on their property and machinery as well as income tax. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 14, 1952, 2326 GMT--R)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

RESTRICTED

- E 4 -

CHILE
Mar. 18, 1952

NAVAL APPOINTMENTS--With the retirement of Vice Admirals Carlos Torres Hevic, Incanuel Holger, and Horacio de la Fuente, the Navy will reportedly make sore important promotions. Besides raising Naval Capt. Danilo Basi to the rank of Rear Admiral, and raising Enrique Lagreze and Francisco Ovarsan to naval captains, Victor Oelkers has been made rear admiral, and Alberto (Cass) Wigand, Juan Mercado Munoz, and alfred Lopez have been made naval captains. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2310 GT--R)

FISHING STRIKE--Valparaiso fishervon have joined the Talcahuano fishermen who declared a strike to protest against the Furse Seine fishing enter- prises. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2320 GT-R)

U.S. PASTOR--Protestat U.S. Paster Erickson, whose activities have been attacked in many sectors where he has held public religious meetings, will soon go to Santiago where he will hold meetings in the Caupolican Theater. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2335 GMT--R)

MINING TAX--The Governmsat has imposed a one and one-hali percent tax on sales made by "small" mining companies. All companies capitalized at less than 5 million pesos fall under this category. (Santiago, EL TARAPAÇA, Mar. 15, 1952, 2340 GMT--R)

HOUSING CONSTRUCTION--From the total of 200 million pesos allotted for public housing by the Ministry of Public Works, 20 million will go to Iquique and Santiago respectively, 25 million each to Arica and Antofagasta, 30 millica to Coquimno, 40 million to Valparaiso, and 10 million each to Concepcion, Cautin, Magallanes, and Llanquihue Provinces. (Santiago, EL TARAPACA, Var. 13, 1952, 2334 GMT--R)

HYDROELECTRIC PLANT-Guillerud Moore, manager of the Empresa Nacional de Electricidad has announced that a tew central hydroelectric plant will shortly be constructed on Rio Rapel and three more will bo constructed in the southern zone. (Santiago/Official, Diplomatic, Mar. 14, 1952, 1553 GT--R)

CHILEAN SWEDISH TRADE--The Minister of Foreign Affairs received the Swedish Enisier who proposed negotiations for the drafting of a commercial and cultural treaty. This treaty is designed to increase the exchange of Swedish-manufactured products and machinery for Chilean Agriculturél products and minerals. (Santiago /official/, Diplomatic, Mar. 14, 1952, 1555 ET-R)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

# SECRET

Form No. 33-8

FROM: FRANKFURT

TO: 00/CPC/OSO

ACTIONS: 00/CB

"SECURITY INFORMATION"

PAGE No.

ROUTINE

27 DEC 51

IN 49477

INFORMATION: AD/SO (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), FDM (5-6),
OPC (7-8-9-10), S/C (11-12-13), DDP (14)

*Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-380-5*

FRAN 3173

TO: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT) INFO: KARLF C:TE: FRAN (CEUDEN)
TRANG

PIPELINE

REUR 446 (OUT 95394)

REF PASSED MOFFETT WHO HAS BEEN EXPLORING WITH CANADIANS. THEY DON'T SEEM INTERESTED. ONLY LIKELY BUYER BELIEVED TO BE ANOTHER S.A. COUNTRY SUCH AS ARGENTINA WITH WHOM WE HAVE NO CONTACTS. WE CERTAINLY NOT ABLE TO ANYTHING HERE WHICH CAN'T BE MORE EFFECTIVELY DONE WESTERN HEMISPHERE WITHOUT EXPENSE MOVING FAMILY BACK TO GERMANY AND THEN ON OUT AGAIN.

TAI 507Z 27 DEC 51

# SECRET

COPY NO.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

# SECRET

To: FRANKFURT SECURITY INFORMATION ROUTINE

FROM: 00/OPC/OSO 20 DEC 51

CONFIRMATION: 00/св OUT 95394

INFORMATION: AD/SO (1), OPS (2), PLANS (3), STC (4), FDM (5-6) OPC (7-8-9-10), WHD (11), S/C (12-13-14), OOP (15)

NR. 146

TO: FRANKFURT (CRUDEN) INFO: FRANFG CITE: WASHINGTON (ASHCRAFT!

PIPELINE

JANNEY OF ZACABIN SAYS HE GAVE ROBINOW BACKGROUND ON AERONAUTICAL ENGINEER AMONG CHILEAN DISPOSAL GROUP AND ROBINOW PROMISED EXPLORE POSSIBILITY GETTING HIM INTO CANADA THROUGH GERMAN CONTACTS. ZACABIN ANXIOUS TO FINISH CHILEAN DISPOSAL OPERATION 15 JANUARY. THIS ONE L'A. REFUSE'S WORK AT ANYTHING EXCEPT AERONAUTICAL ENGINEERING, FOR WHICH JOB NOT AVAILABLE CHILE. ADVISE SOONEST WHAT ROBINOW HAS CONE OR WHAT HE CAN DO. ZACABIN THINKING OF MOVING DEFECTOR BACK TO GERMANY, WHERE HE MIGHT LAND IN YOUR LAP.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

To: SANTIAGO

SPECIAL OPERATIONS

Fром: WHD (1-2)

CONFIRMATION: IR (3-4), FO/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), FDS (9),

INFORMATION: FDM (10), S/C (11-12-13)

WASH 06075

TO: SAGOF CITE: PASHE

RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21937), WASH 04807 (OUT 71940)

HEADQUARTERS WAS UNABLE TO STOP DEPARTURE OF SUBJECT,
A POLE, WHO LEFT BY PLANE FOR CHILE ON 21 AUGUST, AS OUR
INTERAGENCY DEFECTOR COMITTEE WAS NOT CONSULTED. FULLNESS
SHOULD BE ADVISED THAT WE HOT INVOLVED IN THIS CASE. SUBJECT
I'S NOT A DEFECTOR THEN IDCOP NO. 1 REGULATIONS. THEREFORE
YOU SHOULD ASSURE NE RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIM UNLESS HE BECOLES.
INVOLVED WITH OTHER DEFECTOPS IN WHICH CASE IT COULD PROBABLY
BE TO OUR INTEPEST AND INTEREST OF PROGRAMA IS TO BE ADVISED
BY DA THAT RESPONSIBILITY IS HIS.

V L. GRESHAM.

H J. MCKELLOPS

TOD:
1292 30 AUG 51

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

28 August 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chairman, CIA Defector Cocadttee

FROM: OSO Representative, CIA Dafector Committee

SUBJECT: Aray Disposal Action on lefector to Chile.

1. On 17 August 1951, CIA received a priority cable (IN 21787) from Santiago adrising that the Chilean Consul in Frankfurt, Germany, had requested authority from his Foreign Office to issue an "ordinary visa" to oπιελες Σταίεz, a Russian defestor (actually a Polish defco- tor), etating that ácerican Intelligence had requested the visa on the same basis as in the case of earlier defectors. Santiago indicated that Chilean officials did not look on this with ſfavor.

2. On 17 August the undersigned was able to ascertain that Borowios had darested to the 66th Detachment, CIA, in Germany in late May 1951 and since that time had been held in ECIG.

3. On 17 August CIA queriod German Station (OUT 71605) as to why Borowies had not been placed in the DRC and requested that Borowies be sent to Chile..

4. On 17 August 1951, the undersigned telephoned Ers, Dorothy Matlack, (2, and requested her to have a cable sant to Germany by G-2 forbidding the disposal of Borowies to Chile. The undersigned provided Mrs. Hatlock with the serial number of the pertinent CIC memo. Lirs. kate lack stated that she would do everything possible to have this cable sent even if it required her to come in the next day, which wac Saturday.

5. On 20 August CIA advised Santiago (OUT 71940) that it had no lmowledge regarding this disposal action and was opposed to any more disposal actions to Calle at this time.

6. on 22 Aust, CIA received a reply from Germany (12 22176) stating that this Borowies natter was ontirely within the province of CIC and under the circumstances it was impossible for CIA in Cerzany to have had the body sent to the 150. It was also stated that ID ECCOM was arranging for caparture on 21 August 1951. The undersigned diately advised Mrs. Katlack of this ETD and she stated that she was doing all she could to have a priority cable sant at once.

7. On 22 August about 1500 hours, Ars. Hatlock telephoned the undersigned and stated that G-2 did not have a copy of the referonsod CIC mozo. She revuested the undersigned to occo over to the Pentacon immediately in order to exhibit the CIA sopy of the CIA memorandus, es otherwise G-2 would not sond out the desired orble to CIC, Germany. This the underal goed ild and such a cable ves eventually sont out priority by G-2 to Germany (IN IV 23393).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

8. On 27 August 1951, CIA received word from Germany (IZ 23898) that on 21 August Borowics had left by plane for Chile and would apparently require no assistance there since he had his own funds.

Walter C. Janney

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Form No. 35-8
ajni Noo

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

FROM: KARLSR HE

To: SPECIAL OPERATIONS

ACTION: FDM (1-2-3)

POUTINE

25 AUGUT 51

IN 23-99

NFORMATION: IR (4-5),AD/SO (′),OPS (7),PLANS (3),S/3 (9-10-11),000 (12) STC (13)

Parsphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence par Pars, 51 (1) 604 AR-323-3

KARL 3118

TO: WASHF INFO: HEIDF, UNIF CITE: KARLF

RE: KARL 3082, (IN 22716)

1. ID EUCOM ADVISES REQUEST TO RICCIO FOR BOROWICZ DISPOSAL CHILE MADE BY ECIC.

2. BOROWICZ LEFT 21 AUGUST FOR CHILE BY PLANE. SAS OWN FUNDS APPARENTLY REQUIRING NO US. HELP IN SETTLEMENT CHILE.

3. ID EUCOM RECEIVED DA CASH CALE AVOUNTING TO REPRIVAND FOR HANDLING BOROWICZ EMIGRATION WITHOUT COORDINATION, ALSO POINTING OUT ZACABAL NOT CONSULTED.

TOR: 0512 25 AUG 51

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Form No. 36-8
(Dec 1947)

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

# SECRET

Page No.

To: SANTIAGO ROUTINE

From: SPECIAL OPERATIONS 27 AUG 51

Confirmation: MD (1-2) CUT 72590

Information: 18 (5-4), AC/SO (5), PLANS (6), FOS (7), OPS (8), COP (9),
S/C (10-11-12), OPG (13-14-15-16-17-18-19-20--1)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 60A AR-300-5

To: SACOF CITE: WASHF

RE: SACO 503 (IN 20501) PARA 2A

> [Figure: Signature]

DEPORTATION OF SUBJECT NO INTEREST OR RESPONSIBILITY OF HEADQUARTERS OR YOUR STATION AND WE NOT WILLING ASSUME OBLIGATION OR EXPENSE THIS CONNECTION. SUCH DECISION STRICTLY UP TO FULLNESS.

V.L. CRESUM
HJMCK DES H.J. DONELLO'S

RELEASING OFFICER ORIGINATING AND COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

TOD: 2222 25 AUG 51 **SECRET** Copy No. 8

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Form No. 43-8
OCT 1948

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PAGE No.

DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
PRIORITY
FROM:
HEIDELBERG
22 AUG 51
TO:
DEPARTMENT OF ARMY
IN " 23393
ACTION:
AD/SO (1), IR (2), OPS (3), STC (4), FDI (5), FDS (6),
INFORMATION: ID (7), RC (8), S/C (9)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as TOP SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 31 (1) 60A AR-380-5
NR: DA 99529
TO: CINCEUR HEIDELBERG GERMANY.

FOR DI FROM G2.

SUBJECT IS BOGUSLAV BOROWIEZ. INFO HERE THAT CHILEAN CONSUL RICCIO, FRANKFORT ROSTED CHILEAN FON OFFICE ISSUED ORDINARY VISA TO SUBJECT AS OF 31 JULY, STATED AMER INTEL ROSTED VISA ON SAME BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS, CAS ALLEGES THAT THEY NOT NOTIFIED OF BOROWIEZ DEFECTION ALTHOUGH HE IN CUSTODY 66 CIC DET SINCE 26 MAY 51. ROST INFO REF ROLE OF 66 CIC DET IN SUBJECTS DEFECTION AND FURTHER DATA AS TO THY IDC OPN PROCEDURE NR 1 WAS NOT FOLLOWED. ROST SUBJECT BE NOT RESETTLED WITHOUT CONCURRENCE OF IDC GERMANY ALSO ROST THAT SUBJECT NOT BE RESETTLED IN CHILE IN VIEW OF DIFFICULTIES NOT HAVING WITH PLEV DEFECTORS SETTLED THERE.

ORIGIN: G2

IISTR: 02(CIA)

DA 99529 (AUG 51) DTG: 221820Z

2338Z 23 AUG 51

SECRET
Copy No. 5
TON:

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

**SECRET**

PAGE No.

---

FROM: KARLSRUHE ROUTINE

TO: SPECIAL OPERATIONS 21 AUGUST 51

ACTION: FOM (1-2-3) I: 22716

INFORMATION: IF (1-5), AD/SO (6), OPS (7), PLANS (8), S/C (9-10-11), EUP (12), STC (13)

---

*Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-380-5*

KARL 3082

TO: WASHF CITE: KAPLF

RE: WASH 04508 (CUT 71605)

1. LATE JULY CIC ADVISED THEY THROUGH WITH DEBRIEFING BOROWICZ WHO WILL BE TREATED AS DISPOSAL CASE FROM 10 AUG ON AND ASKED WHETHER WE INTERESTED IN HIM, ANCE ADVISED NOT INTERESTED; BOB ADVISED INTERESTED AND ASKED JOB INTERVIEW HIM, WHICH CB CID 9 AUG (REPORT IN POWA 6602 EN ROUTE MUNI TO KARL AND WASH, INDICATES HE OF NO FURTHER INTEREST SINCE CIC FULLY DEBRIEFED AND ID EUCO WAS ARRANGING HIS EMIGRATION WITH ETD 21 AUG).

2. BOB INTEREST SIMPLY DUE TO ORIGINAL CIC INDICATIONS SINCE POB PRIMARY BASE FOR DISPATCH SINGLETONS TO POLAND WHILE MOB TRIES SPECIALIZE IN GROUP OPS.

3. PLS REALIZE WE HAD NOTHING TO DO WITH 9 EXCEPT SINGLE INTERVIEW WHICH PRODUCED NO OPS INTEREST IN HIM. RE DRC: IN CIRCUMSTANCES THIS WAS NOT OUR CASE TO ROUTE TO DRC OR ELSEWHERE; ALSO, IT IS NOT SOP FOR PERSONS OF B'S LEVEL AND NATIONALITY TO GO. DRC.

4. RF CHILEAN VISA REQUEST: WE INVESTIGATING AND WILL REPORT FACTS SOON.

---

TOR: 1325Z 21 AUG 51 **SECRET** Copy No.

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

To: SANTIAGO

From: SPECIAL OPERATIONS

CONFIRMATION: WHD (1-2)

INFORMATION: IR (3-4), AD/SO (5), OPS (6), PLANS (7), STC (8), S/C (9-10-11), FDS (12)

ROUTINE

23 AUG 51

OUT 71942

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Para. 51 (1) 60.4 AR-380-5

WASH 24597

To: SAGOF CITE: WSHF

RE: SAGO 305 (IN 21787)

THIS AGENCY HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF PLANS FOR ADDITIONAL
DEFECTOR PRIOR RECEIPT SAGO 305. MATTER BEING CHECKED AND YOU
WILL BE INFORMED OF CIRCUMSTANCES, BUT HEADQUARTERS WILL OPPOSE
SENDING MORE DISPOSAL CASES TO CHILE AT THIS TIME.

V.L. GRESHAN.

H.J. MCKELLOPS

TOD: 17382 23 AUG 51

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Porta N33-6
(LYCIN)

OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

PAGE NO

TO:
KARLSRUHE
ROUTINE

FROM:
SPECIAL OPERATIONS
17 AUC 51

CONFIRMATION:
FO (1-2)
OUT71605

INFORMATION:
IR (3-4) ADSO (5) OPS (6) PLANS (7) S/C (9-10-11)
DOP (12), STC (13)

Paraphrase Not Required. Handle as SECRET Correspondence per Pars. 51 (1) 604 AR-389-5

WASH 04608

TO: KARLF CITE: WASHF

RE: KARL 2945 (IN 18811)

1. SANTIAGO ADVISES CHILEAN FONOF RECEIVED DISPATCH
   DATED 31 JULY FROM ITS FRAN CONSUL, RICCIO PEQUESTING
   AUTHORITY ISSUE "ORDINARY VISA" TO SUBJECT STATED AMERICAN
   INTELL REQUESTED VISA ON SAME BASIS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. IN VIEW COMPLICATIONS CHILEAN DEFECTOR SITUATION
   NO DISPOSOL OP TO CENTRAL OR SCUTH AMERICA TO BE INITIATED
   WITHOUT PRIOR HEADQUARTERS APPROVAL. PILS ADVISE W10
   INITIATED REQUEST PARA 1 AND HOLD UP ACTION THIS CASE
   FENDING INSTRUCTIONS FROM HQ.

3. ADVISE(A) WHY SUBJECT WAS NOT TURNED OVER TO
   DRC FOR DEBRIEFING PER CURRENT OPERATING, PROCEDURES?

(B) SUBJECT'S PRESENT STATUS, LOCATION.

(C) CLARIFICATION B03 INTEREST SUBJECT, SUBSEQUENT
MOB ACTION.

4. RE MOSA 4088. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ROTNICKI
   CR TEPLITZ-SCMBLITSKY. ASSUME CIC FOLLOWING UP CE ASPECTS
   AND ACTIVITIES WEST GERMANY.

H. CUNNINGHAN
RELEASING OFTICLE
VCH
JANEY
GRILINATING AND COORDINATE COFFICERS

C1.022 18 AUG 51

SECRET
Corr No.

IT IS FOLBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

INCOMING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

# SECRET

FROM: SANTIAGO

TO: SPECIAL OPERATIONS

ACTION: VHD (1-2)

INFORMATION: AD/SO (3), OPS (4), PLANS (5), STC (6), FDS (7) S/C (8-9-10), DDP (11)

S400 305

TO: VASHF CITE: SAGOF

1. FULLNESS ADVISED CHILEAN FOREIGN OFFICE RECEIVED DISPATCH FROM ITS FRANKFURT CONSUL, RICCIO, DATED 31 JULY 31, REQUESTING AUTHORITY ISSUE "ORDINARY VISA" TO MAURICY (BORO). BO/USLAV, RUSSIAN DEFECTOR. STATED AMERICAN, INTELLIGENCE REQUESTED VISA EN SAME BASIS AS PREVIOUS DEFECTORS.

2. FULLNESS OPINED ENOUGH DIFFICULTY EXISTED OVER PRESENT DEFECTORS WITHOUT ADDING THERETO. HE HAS BEEN ASKED TO HOLD MATTER ABEYANCE HQS COMMENTS.

3. SAGO RECOMMENDS NO NEW DEFECTORS CHILE UNTIL PRESENT PROBLEMS RESOLVED AND FULLNESS ASSURED THAT UNDESIRABLES BE RECALLED, BELIEVE DEFECTORS 47 AND 38 MOST SERIOUS THOUGH INVESTIGATION UNCOMPLETED TO DATE. DEFECTORS 56 AND 42 NOT BELIEVED RECONCILABLE. RECOMMEND FRANKFURT AUTHORITIES HANDLE SUCH MATTERS THROUGH HQS AND THIS STATION.

SECRET

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO MAKE A COPY OF THIS MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

TCS-630 dtd 24 Aug 49
Ref: TCS-15-644-

Industrial expandion of last few years in Chile reveals shortages skilled welders, automotive mechanics, farm machinery technicians and mechanics, factory mechanics, experienced lathe operaters, die and mould workers, ceramics technicians--skilled labor and technicians in almost every industry in the country.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

OSC Registry
15-6-4

SUBJECT
Disposal Questionnaire

ABSTRACT OF DOCUMENT BEING CROSS FILED

DATE OF DOCUMENT
17 Feb 1949

CROSS FILED BY
ANALYST
Lois Seitz

DATE
29 November 1955

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Pencilled in file No. 31-7-4-1


FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
CROSS REFERENCE FORM

| Wash | CIA | Pro | 382 Folder 54 |
| ---- | --- | --- | ------------- |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Dept. of Army document

12. August 1955

Memo for: Dir, CIA, FM: Collection Div

Subject: Interagency Depection Committee

Class: Secret

Ref: to G2-CDOA

THIRD AGENCY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)