# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE

633
10 OCT 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: KINGSTON

ACTION: TFW 10

INFO: DDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/Q, FI, FI/INT 2,
WH 7, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
RI file this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as Indicated

ROUTING
OCT 11 00212 62

ROUTINE

IN 37423

DIR INFO WAVE CITE KNGS 0208

GYROSE AMBUD

REF A DIR 40852 (GA84508)

B KNGS 0202 (I.N. 32688)

1. COS BELIEVES HIS REF B APPRAISAL JAMAICAN POLITICAL CLIMATE RE-ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD DELEGATION HERE CORRECT. JAMAICAN GOVT WANTS NOT BE OVERTLY INVOLVED IN COLD WAR AND OUT OF CONCERN FOR SAFETY LARGE JAMAICAN COMMUNITY CUBA WILL MAKE STRENUOUS EFFORT TO STAY OUT. HOWEVER THEY WILL HELP COVERTLY WHEREZVER POSSIBLE. ANY ATTEMPT INVOLVE JAMAICAN GOVT AGAINST ITS WILL AT THIS TIME WOULD RESULT IN NET-LOSS OF COOPERATION NOW AND IN FUTURE. STATION REGARDS INCREASING COOPERATION OF RUABBE SERVICE IN CUBAN OBJECTIVES OF CONSIDERABLE VALUE.

2. IF HQS BELIEVES AMBUD REP SHOULD VISIT JAMAICA TO TEST POLITICAL CLIMATE IN GOVT, STATION WOULD CONCUR MOST RELUCTANTLY IN (PIN GELD )
   WILL END WITH FRANK (DIAZ) SILVEIRA DURING CARIBBEAN GAMES WHOM GOVT WANTED TO THROW OUT FOR HIS STATEMENTS TO PRESS ABOUT PROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD REPRESENTATION HERE. IN ANY EVENT STATION WOULD INSIST NO PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS PRECEDE JAMAICAN GOVT RULING. SHOULD GOVT REJECT AMBUD FOLLOWING ADVANCE PUBLICITY THIS COULD BE MAJOR VICTORY FOR CUBAN CONSULATE, SHOT IN ARM TO FACING. "FRIENDS OF CUBA COMMITTEE"

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

RE Filing (trace use):

No C/S Record Value. Destroy.

Hi File this copy as indicated

Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Tracking Race origin.

Marked None required

Signature:

ROUTING

1

4

2

5

3

6

PAGE 2

IN 37423 KNGS 0208

(COMPRISING LOCAL COMMUNISTS AND RAS TAFARIS), AND GIFT TO BUDDING NEW
COMMUNIST FRONT "SOCIALIST PARTY OF JAMAICA".

3. SINCE STATION COULD NOT PLAUSIBLY DENY RESPONSIBILITY FOR AMBUD
   TO RUABBE AND GOVT OPPOSED TO USE OF JAMAICA FOR COUNTER REVOLUTIONARYS
   PURPOSE AGAINST CUBA, COS BELIEVES IT ADVANTAGEOUS TO XUBARK AND ODYOKE
   FOR AMBUD STAY OUT OF JAMAICA UNTIL SENTIMENT CHANGES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *SUBJ KNGS CONCURRENCE, SUGGESTED WAVE SEND AMEUD REP TO TEST
LOCAL GOVT CLIMATE FOR PROPOSED DELEG AND REPORT RESPONSE AMBUD/1.

SECRET

FORM 1389

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)