14-00000
104-10123-10219 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETUR
Background
Do Not Rern

FELE: OCSINH TAMES F., Co

Egia Only
Director of Avidity
Deputy, Director of Avidity
.R. TATE:


15-0.7




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

DD/s 65-0896

Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

23 FEB 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Support

SUBJECT : Key Assignments Office of Security

1. This memorandum submits proposed key assignments in the Office of Security for *your information and approval*; such assignments are contained in paragraph 2.

2. The following key assignments for the Office of Security are proposed for the summer of 1965:

a. Mr. Arthur C. Sheridan, GS-15, Chief, Technical Division, will replace Mr. James P. O'Connell, Jr. in (3-17 (Okinawa) as Chief, Far East Regional Security Staff during July 1965.

b. Mr. James W. McCord, Jr., GS-15, who is presently attending the Air War College, will replace Mr. Sheridan as Chief, Technical Division during June 1965.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET.

RETURN TO CIA
Packground Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

c. Mr. James P. O'Connell, Jr., GS-15, will be assigned to a GS-16 position as Chief, Investigations Division upon his return to Headquarters in August 1965. After Mr. O'Connell has had a brief period of orientation in this assignment, I plan to recommend that he be promoted to GS-16.

(SIGNED)
Howard J. Osborn
Director of Security

The assignments contained in paragraph 2 are approved 26 Feb 65
Date

L. K. White
Deputy Director for Support

Distribution:
Original - Return to OS
2- DDS
2 - Pers Br.

OS/A&TS/ELHardt/ph (x6200 - 19 Feb 65)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)