104-10126-10253

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Journal - Office of Legislative CounselRETURN TO CIA Page 3
Wednesday - 28 June 1978 Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce

7. (Secret - MMP) LIAISON Julie Wetzel, NSA, called to advise us that a letter was coming over from NSA to Lyle Miller, Acting Legislative Counsel, on the subject of the leak of NSA's ability to read Korean diplomatic traffic. She said that the letter states that NSA has no objection to the Director's provision of NSA's damage assessment to the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. The letter goes on to state that NSA does not feel that it would be appropriate to reveal the names of Congressmen and staff who are aware of NSA's capability to read Korean diplomatic traffic inasmuch as the Attorney General is investigating the leak.

8. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Loch Johnson, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to advise him (based on information provided by Suzanne Black, Office of Public Affairs), that the Agency has no past or present substantive involvement with WETA. This was in response to a previous request from Johnson. I also asked Johnson how much information he wished us to provide him on the Agency's relationship with public television. He indicated that he is only interested in a brief sketch of what kinds of relationships the Agency may have had with public television and I passed this requirement on to Ms. Black.

9. (Confidential - DFM) LIAISON Received a call from Ed Greissing, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, regarding the House Select Committee on Assassinations request for access to Church Committee transcripts of testimony by Agency employees. I asked him to send Ted Shackley's testimony to me so he could review it before giving approval. I reminded him that Mr. Sanchez had asked that his testimony not be shown and that that should be considered the final Agency response.

10. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Called Earl Eisenhower, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who mentioned he would like the briefing on counterintelligence to be presented to the Committee during the first week of August. I later picked up a letter from Eisenhower on this subject. We confirmed tomorrow's briefing of four Committee staff members to cover the Martha Peterson case, specifically the allegations of poison pills; the discovery of the antenna in the chimney of the Moscow Embassy; and the Shevchenko case. Eisenhower repeated his earlier request to Lyle Miller, Acting Legislative Counsel, for a trip to NPIC to view Wrangel Island which is part of the USSR but which some U.S. citizens claim really belongs to the U.S. Eisenhower had viewed maps of the Island but wants to see photographs as none of the maps are more recent that ten years old. I agreed to try to set this meeting up for Friday, 30 June.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)