# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 95-1311426

PAGE: 1

CONF: CE/W/MB INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE,
CE/W, CE/W/IS (4/P)

95 1311426 ASP PAGE 001
TOT: 092204Z AUG 95 DIRECTOR 398108

STAFF 092204Z DIRECTOR 398108

TO: PRIORITY MINSK.

FROM: LIMIT C/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W/IS, C/CE/W

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT GTDANCER

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR GUIDANCE

REF: MINSK 14072 95 1207999

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: INFORMATION BELOW PROVIDED AS BACKGROUND FOR DISCUSSIONS WITH THE AMBASSADOR

2. WE RESEARCHED THE JYVAPOROUS PROMISE TO DELIVER FILES ON *<LEE HARVEY OSWALD.>* WHILE NOT MUCH ON THIS SUBJECT IS REFLECTED IN THE FILES, WE DID COME UP WITH INFORMATION WHICH INDICATES THAT THAT MATTER WAS TURNED OVER TO THE FBI FOR ACTION! THE ORIGINAL OFFER WAS MADE BY JYVAPOROUS/1 (V/1) TO FORMER CED IN MAY 92. IN OCTOBER 1992, DC/CETF/W VISITED MINSK FOR FOLLOW-UP DISCUSSIONS WITH V/1 RE THIS AND OTHER SUBJECTS THE FOLLOWING IS TAKEN DIRECTLY FROM THE TRIP REPORT:

* "WE OPENED THE DISCUSSIONS WITH THE TOPIC OF THE<LEE HARVEY> *<OSWALD>FILES; TELLING V/1 THE FBI IS PREPARING A LETTER TO PRIME MINISTER KEBICH, ASKING PERMISSION TO SEE THE FILE. V/1 BECAME IRRITABLE AND DEFENSIVE, SAYING THAT SINCE THE USG DID NOT DEIGN TO MAKE PUBLIC ALL MATERIAL PERTAINING TO ITS OWN INVESTIGATION OF *THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>(THE WARREN REPORT), WHY SHOULD HE BE PRESSED INTO SURRENDERING HIS FILE. WE SAID NO PRESSURE IS INVOLVED WE ARE ONLY FOLLOWING UP ON HIS OFFER. (STILL DEFENSIVE) HE STATED HE WOULD NOT ALLOW ACCESS TO THE RAW FILE, WHICH WOULD EXPOSE SOURCES AND METHODS USED TO SURVEIL AND INVESTIGATE OSWALD IN MINSK HE OFFERED INSTEAD SUMMARIES CONTAINING THE RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION AND SURVEILLANCE, WHICH OSTENSIBLY WERE PREPARED AT THE TIME OF OSWALD'S STAY IN MINSK HE WOULD ALLOW OUR "EXPERTS" (PRESUMABLY USG) TO EXAMINE THE DOCUMENTS CLOSELY AND TO CONFIRM THEIR AUTHENTICITY AND COMPLETENESS. HE HINTED THAT WE (NWBOLTAN REPRESENTATIVES) MIGHT BE ALLOWED TO LOOK A BIT INTO THE RAW FILE. WE SAID WE WOULD RELAY THIS TO OUR SUPERIORS, BUT EXPLAINED AGAIN THAT, DUE TO THE SENSITIVITY AMONG SOME AMERICANS *STEMMING FROM THEIR DISTRUST OF NWBOLTAN VIS A VIS THE<KENNEDY>"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET
MHFNO: 95-1311426 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 2

<ASSASSINATION, WE COULD NOT UNILATERALLY HANDLE THE FILES --
THOUGH WE COULD HELP FACILITATE THEIR PASSAGE TO THE PROPER USG
AUTHORITIES (THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT)

3 V/1 THEN TOLD OUR C/O THAT THE FBI'S LETTER SHOULD BE
SENT TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE SUPREME SOVIET VICE THE PRIME MINISTER
AND WE AGREED TO SO INFORM THE FBI. THAT MEMO IS THE LAST
INFORMATION WE HAVE ON THE MATTER. THERE IS NOTHING TO INDICATE
THAT THE FBI DID INDEED SEND THE LETTER OR, IF IT WAS SENT, THAT
THEY RECEIVED A REPLY TO IT. BECAUSE IT WAS PREVIOUSLY DETERMINED
THAT THE FBI HAD PRIMACY IN THIS MATTER, IT IS OUR DETERMINATION
THAT WE SHOULD NOT REQUERY JYVAPOROUS. WE HAVE ASKED OUR REP AT
THE FBI TO CHECK (INFORMALLY) AS TO THE STATUS OF THEIR DIALOGUE
WITH THE JYVAPOROUS AND WILL LET YOU KNOW AS SOON AS WE RECEIVE
THE ANSWER. PLEASE ASSURE THE AMBASSADOR THAT HE WOULD LIKE US TO
PURSUE THIS MATTER WITH THE FBI THROUGH OUR CHANNELS, WE WILL BE
GLAD TO DO SO. REGARDS.
FILE: NONE. INDEX: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>
RELNO: E221787 REL:
ORIG: C/CE/W/MB(DOWDON, 73516); AUTH: CE/W (FREIMANN);
CE/W (WEBER) CL BY 520992
END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)