# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: WKH

FM: AMS

RE: ZRRIFLE

3 July 1962

1. Per our discussion of 2 July 1962, I.expect that we shall proceed to transfer QJWIN to Baden-Baden per the proposal in OLLA-1463 dated 2 February 1962. LUXE/0489 dated 19 June 1962 stated that COS would have the full details of the capital outlay required by 23 June; however, the information has not been received as of 3 July. The last cable to the Station, DIR 18321 told COS to contact you directly on his arrival on 16 July.

2. With regard to candidates spotted by QJWIN, the two whom he spotted in Italy a year and a quarter ago can probably be used if needed, if we can accept the assessments of them by the Trieste Base contract agent, Magonetti. Magonetti's assessment is contained in OTRA 27542 dated 10 May 1961. The names of the two French candidates are contained in QL1A, 1426 dated 15 December 1961. No action has been taken on these names regarding tracing or anything else. My handwritten notes attached to that dispatch contain fuller descriptions of the two people than appear in the dispatch.

3. The other spotting effort that can be made is through Hank Manfredi (TN) in Rome, lank was well briefed on the qualifications desired and the security precautions to be observed in the spotting activity. COS Rome has a copy of the qualifications and restrictions in his safe; however, if Manfredi is told to proceed with his contact in Florence, I suggest that he be re-briefed in detail.

4. Frankly, all the rest of the paper in the file is crud except for the pay receipts which are assembled in one envelope. I have already given the ZRRIFLE authorization paper signed by Helms and Skip has been given the QJWIN contract, including the extension to 1 March 1963.

5. The details which have yet to be worked out are

a. The precise method of contact with QJWIN

b. The system of drawing funds for payments to him

c. An emergency contact for him (this should probably be COS LUXE).

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

6. Despite COS LUXE's viewpoint, I happen to know that QJWIN can do more spotting in Corsican circles whenever we want him to.

AMS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

The candidate: no name used; circa 43-45. 1.75-1.78. strongly
built, broad shoulders, circa 85 kilos, slightly oval full
face, blond hair combed straight back thinning in corners,
thinning on top, rosa complexion, no eye color noticed, worker's
hands, nose thin and curved outward a little, thin lips;
chín full but not fat, makes impression of a handwerker; has
been in prison Sante twice (burglary) name does not begin
with A,B,C,D otherwise would have gone to Fresne prison; not
knowa whether convicted; has own car; free to travel; 5 years
POW in Germany; M. impression: good nerves; composed; can
open usual safe: would work with someone previously unknown
to him; M. would use him; willing to use gun: did not ask
money: Hugo wants his cut. Lives 250-300 km from Paris;
legal occupation unknown. Contact thru llugo: can cut Hugo
out with money. This candidate ready any time. las no
passport, but can get one. Can also get passport under
phoney name. M. likes this one as candidate

Saw G and G's candidate 28 Aprilwith lokal in Paris; G
contacted this candidate directly; candidate llenri
description: circa 4548. 1.75 - 1.7S; dark brown hair;
full, deep on forehead; shiny and combed back; half part on
right; brown complexion; not quite square face; brown eyes;
heavy eyebrows dark brown w/verbindung between eyebrows; bridge
of nose depressed, nose somewhat small: normal ears; mouth
schrag when he speaks: small scars on left cheek and small
scar running from middle of nose on left side; brown
hair on hands, no (minge); well dressed; hands well kept:
fingertips (squared): smokes (Frouch) Ami cigarettes;
not a drinker; lives Paris: frequents Bar Le Corsaire, 110
Ave de Suffren; can be found there every day from 4:30 PM;
specialist in safes own tools; also holdups; in Sante
prison; belonged after war to Lyon St. Etienne underworld;
gave some facts of this which M knows to be true; wanted to
know if should be armed for job ready to go to the end:
has a colleague with whom wants to work; not behind iron
curtair and not in France; would be expensive: has expired
passport, but no sweat in renewing it: impression would
follow orders; better action man than lugo's candidate, but
not sure whether has safecracking experience to extent
Hugo's man has; las car - Dauphine, beige (?) #24611575
(Paris); not married. V can contact him at tel SUF 46-90--
this is the bar. M told him two weeks to three months (also
told Hugo's man the same but Gaillord's candidate wants
to know in few weeks whether still hope. Could bring both
candidates together into a team.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

2 May:

1) Santilli could not locate his cousin. Trust to Marseille after Tilley, Hugo & Killars Tiliaving this contacts - lived in Hotel du Globe, Marseille.

2) Santilli met Padovani, Jean, married: in 42-43, worked on RR in Marseille - barlies in Bildieselsbolag, no children, alias person can kipplies tongue, has done holdups, never caught, not exaggerator, good connections in Corsican underworld in Marseille; ht 1.70-1.172, medium build, top of head bald, head on sidesis brown, oval face, brownish complexion (dust not bald), brown eyes, mustaste cigarette smoker, French & German, POW 40-45, working for RRA for a few years, hides 7008 Rue St. Therese; in care friend of Santilli; is now looking for candidates!!! purpose in meeting him again. after Issued for a Felix Carboni (?), professionelsmugler, Corsican, living in Marseille, has a brother who was murdered by police in a holdup. Still looking for Felix.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

f. unberisante complete, what is sought.

3) Hugo: species for trousers les in
   Transport Aldo (ofolist) - Vime Julietto
   Jaquillard, 155 Rue de charonne, Paris
   Tel. ROG 06-45; met Hugo 29 Apr (calls
   living from Moraille tee of priestess
   Gascon candidate 1/2 - 3/4 hour

The candidate: no mame used; CA. 43-45,
1.75-1.78, strongly built, broad shoulders,
ca 85 kilos, slightly oval full face, Moul
hair combed straight back thinning
in corners, timing on top, vera
complexion rouge color violet, workers'
hands, nose thin & would outward a
little, thin lips; chin full fait rest
fat, fit make impression of a
hardworker; most has been in prison
Santé device : name does not begin
(mol F, G, H, D - otherwise would have gave
For some reason; not Bintion better


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

convicted; brissonner, bollito trouel; 5 years
POW in derweiz; M. impression garl
nepes, composed, can open mind cafe, would
nearb sue prentzud, welmsson to
min; M. wert wel kim; emilliy towel goen,
did not ask money; Hugo wants
his cut time 250-300 km from
Paris, legal occupation malensions.
Contact the Hugo can ait Puso
清淨
out of/money, Yous cantitate
realy any thine. Hos ir passport, but
can get one. Pan atorget passport
under Parny mame. M. likes this
one as candidate.

4 Aur G-T GA coldste 28 lipor inte
tobal in Paris, & contested this
condidite dereitty for we; pecerijer
12 45-48; 1.75-1.78; dak brown her
full-dit on forest, shin, conset bacts,
half pet on right; brson brown compliction
not quite square fad; drson enges; yey


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

bridges of nose depressed, nose somewhat small; normal ears; mouth somewhat schräg when he speaks; scars on left cheek & small scar running from middle of nose on left side; brown harron hands, no miss, well pressed; hands well kept; fingertips mieckig; smokes for 4-Avi cigarettes, isnt a broker; nice fairs; frequents Bar Je Corsaire, 110 Ave. de Saffren; can be found there every day from 4:30 PM;

specialist in safes - proin touts; also holdups; in Santé prison;
belonged eta war To Lyon-tt.

Etienne misunderstood; jure some facts of this, which M knows to be false; wanted to know if should be armed for fat - ready, to go to the end; has a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

colleague water whom, mounts to wusk; cost
bthind iron curtain & must in Frances;
would be dispensable; not his
lified passport, biet no existin.
renewing, it; M., impression, would
fellow ordere; balite action insu
thon Hugo's causchte but not sure
whitthe bios colorading experiencelo
extent theses manches. Fias car in
Dauphinie, beige (?), #2461/HS
(Paris++); not named, m.can
contact him et til: SUF 46-90-
this is the bar. M. told him
2 nelis to 3 mos (alor told
Hugo's vison the carne) but
Hailiords candidate merits.
lonow in few willhes whethe
stil hope. Could bring this
covellates together nito a
tism


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)