# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Logistics

SUBJECT: Request for Services of Collins Modem Field Service Engineer

1. The Office of Communications recently purchased two Collins Radio Company Model TE-216D-160 High Frequency Data Modems at a cost of $20,000 each. These Modems are specially designed equipment and will be used to test the feasibility of transmitting Secure (encrypted) Voice over a narrow band, high frequency, radio circuit. We also intend to determine their suitability for use in high speed data transmission, and tests by our Engineering Staff are scheduled to commence in mid-February.

2. Owing to the fact Modems are very complex in operation requiring special set-up techniques and adjustment, it would be advantageous to have a specialist available to assist our personnel and to assure timely completion of the tests. Accordingly, it is requested that a contract be let with the Collins Radio Company for the services of a Field Service Engineer. It is presently estimated that the services of this Engineer will be required at (Station "D", VTC) for approximately six to eight weeks depending on test results. The exact date on which the Engineer is needed will be determined as preliminary installation of the equipment is completed. For planning purposes, however, we estimate he will be required on or about 6 March 1967.

3. It is understood from discussions with Collins representatives at Newport Beach, California, that engineering services of this type cost approximately $3,000 per month in addition to travel expenses. We recommend that the services of Modem Field Service Engineer, Mr.(Donald Warren Waycott),
   be secured, as he has an Agency TOP SECRET clearance effective 19 May 1965.

4. For any additional information, please contact Mr.(Jack W. Andrews)
   on Extension 2045.

Attachment:
Request for Procurement Services

JOHN W. COFFEY
Director of Communications


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SUBJECT: Request for Services of Collins Modem Field Service
Engineer

CONCURRENCE:

(Signed) RICHARD H. LANSDALE
Office of General Counsel

7 1967
Date

Harlon a. Westrell
Director of Security

8 FEB 1967
Date

APPROVAL:

/S/ Dow H. Luchepher
Director of Personnel

8 FEB 1967
Date

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee w/att.
1 - Director of Security w/o att.
1 - Director of Personnel w/o att.
1- General Counsel w/o att.

PET
2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)