# SECRET

MICROFILMED

Chief, Task Force AUG 1 1962

Chief of Station,

16 July 1962

GYROSE/Operational
DHE/Guerrillas-Havana and Las Villas

ATTENTION REQUESTED: PM, KUTUBE all CIT: CUBA

1. On 14 July 1962, Juan Rodriguez Jomolca, A 12 821 206, born 19 November 1934, Rancho Veloz, Les Villas, last address, Havana;
   US address: c/o Jose Deetjen, 14746 East 57th Street, Apartment 3, Maywood, Los Angeles, California, telephone 581-5569, was interviewed.

2. Source said he formerly belonged to the DRE, but after Playa Giron it disintegrated. Nevertheless, he said, he was able to keep in contact with a few DRE people who are in Havana. He said details on the DRE could be obtained from Manuel Salvat, but he did state that he belonged to the DRE group headed by a brother of Diaz Lanz. This brother is still in Havana. He said this group wants to engage in political assassination, and has repeatedly requested that pistols with silencers be sent from the United States.

3. Source said that his cousin, Salvador Jomolca, is a guerrilla leader in Las Villas Province, more specifically operating between Matanzas and Corralillo. He said that his cousin is a Ileutenant about 30 years old. He has a small group, few arms, and very little ammunition. He is trying to get outside help but there is no method of communicating with him.

4. Source said that Salvador Jomolca is married to a daughter of "Campito", the elder. (Comment: A previous source reported that there are two "Canpito"s, a father and his son. The son is the most reported upon guerrilla leader, the father apparently only accompanying the son.)

Nelson L. RAYNOCK

CS COPY

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)