104-10004-10143 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Box 8

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 13-00000

# SX-25605

# MEMO FOR THE RECORD

1 June 1964

# Discussion between Member SR Division and COS Helsinki concerning timetable of Oswald's stay in Helsinki

1.  At 0900 this morning I talked with Frank Friberg recently returned COS Helsinki re Warren Commission inquiry concerning the timetable of Oswald's stay in Finland in October 1959, including his contact with the Soviet Consulate therer (Copy of the Commission letter of 25 May 64 and State Cable of 22 May 64, attached.)

2. Friberg gave me the following information:

a. It takes 25 minutes to drive from the airport to downtown Helsinki.

b. By taxi, it would take no more than 5 minutes to reach the Soviet consulate.

c. The consulate was basically closed on Saturdays in 1959;

d. Passenger lists (manifests) at the U.S. Consulate in Helsinki are retained for six months only and then are destroyed. Mr. Robert Fulton (CIA) was U.S. consular official there at the time.

e. A copy of State's cable inquiry would go to the Helsinki Station and they would assist in preparation of a reply.

3. Mr. Friberg agreed that it would be worthwhile to cable the Station concerning points not covered by State in their inquiry. He suggested changes incorporated into the cable sent to Helsinki.

Lee H. Wigren
C/SR/CI/R

Document Number 716-838

for FOIA Review on JUN 1976
SAME AS RELEASED
DOC # -340

![RECORD COPY Stamp]

![a table with check boxes for TRAVEL PROGRAM, ABSTRACT, INDEX, PREPARE FOR FILING, FILM, CODE NO. (2,3,4), RYBAT REST CODE, CABLE IDEN (11), NTD (8), FOR FILING]

1 Jun 64
201-289248


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)