# RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

11 January 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SE Division

ATTENTION : Division Security Officer

FROM : (Thomas L. Briggs)
SE/X/LA

SUBJECT : Appearance As Witness In Behalf of the
United States Government

REFERENCE : USA V. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al. (76-371-CR-CA)

1. During the period of my employment as a Special Agent at the Drug Enforcement Administration, I conducted an interview of Gerald Patrick Hemming (DPOB 1 March 1937, at Los Angeles, California) on 23 May 1975 at DEA Headquarters in Washington, D.C. My report concerning that interview has become part of the case file in USA v. Gerald P. Hemming, Et Al., Case Number 76-371-CR-CA, Southern District of Florida, Miami, Florida.

2. Upon my entrance on duty in SE Division on 5 January 1977, I orally informed the Division Security Officer, Billy Hix, about the information in paragraph 1 above. Mr. Hix asked me to submit the information in writing as soon as I was settled in the Division. On 7 January 1977, however, Special Agent Robert Fredericks telephonically contacted Hope Mason DC/SE/X/LA, and told her that the United States Attornery, Southern District of Florida, had requested that I appear at the U.S. Courthouse, Miami, Florida on 10 January 1977 to confer with the Assistant United States Attorney, Karen L. Atkinson, regarding my appearance as a witness in behalf of the U.S. Government in the trial of Gerald P. Hemming.

3. During the afternoon of 7 January 1977 I conferred with Mr. Hix who advised me to contact the Office of the General Counsel. I talked to Mr. Edmund Cohen who advised me to get in touch with the Office of Security, External Activities Branch (OS/EAB). I completed an Outside Activity Approval Request (Form 879), obtained the concurrence of DC/SE, Mr. John Stein, and submitted the Form 879 to OS/EAB. OS/EAB sent me to Central Cover Staff (Mr. Blandford) and then to the Office of the General Counsel. After discussions with Mr. Cohen, I called


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

S/A Fredericks in Miami at Mr. Cohen's suggestion. S/A Fredericks was
not available. Mr. Cohen then advised me to return to my office and
he would contact me with further instructions. Mr. Cohen retained
the Form 879. Subsequently, Mr. Cohen advised me that I should travel
to Miami as requested and that CIA would reimburse me for expenses
connected with my activities in behalf of the U.S. Government. He
further advised me that being in an overt cover status I should state,
if asked under oath, that I am currently a CIA employee.

4. On 10 January 1977 I traveled to Miami where I met and
   conferred with AUSA Karen Atkinson and DEA S/A Robert Fredericks.
   They informed me that Gerald P. Hemming's case had been severed and
   his trial would not begin on 11 January. AUSA Atkinson told me she
   wanted me as a rebuttal witness if Gerald P. Hemming presented the
   defense that he had been working at the direction of DEA. She said
   they would not call me until and unless that defense was presented.
   She also said that she felt that any attempt to question me concerning
   my current place of employment was irrelevent and she would object to
   any such line of questioning. She said she would only ask me where
   I was employed at the time I interviewed Hemming. I returned to
   Washington D.C. salic any.

(Thomas L. Briggs)

Distribution:

1 - CCS
1 - OS
1 - OGC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

16 January 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM: Edmund Cohen
Assistant General Counsel

SUBJECT: U.S. v. Hemming

1. On 22 November 1977 the undersigned accompanied by Messrs.(Thomas Briggs) Gary Mattocks and Robert Barteaux, travelled to Miami to confer with Judge Hoeveler, and Assistant U.S. Attorney Thomas M. Sherouse, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida, about subject case. Messrs.(Briggs)and Mattocks had dealt with Mr. Hemming while they were employed by the Drug Enforcement Administration and Mr. Sherouse wanted them available as rebuttal witnesses. Mr. Barteaux also was sought as a possible rebuttal witness to describe the Agency's relationship with Mr. Hemming in the event that Hemming raised a CIA defense.

2. On 23 November Mr. (Briggs) Mr. Barteaux and the undersigned met in chambers with Judge Hoeveler, Mr. Sherouse, Mr. Roger Howard, law clerk to Judge Hoeveler, and Mr. Ted Sakowitz, Public Defender for the Southern District of Florida. Mr. Sherouse decided that Mr. Mattocks would not be required to testify and he did not attend the meeting. The Judge initially expressed some reluctance to have an *ex parte* conference because Mr. Hemming had assumed primary responsibility for his own defense with only limited assistance from the Public Defender. The Judge insisted that a transcript of the meeting be made but he promised that the transcript would be sealed and, in fact, would not be transcribed.

3. The undersigned indicated that the Agency had no interest in the outcome of the case and interposed no objection to the introduction of any relevant information. Our sole concern was to protect Mr. Briggs and his relationship with CIA both before and after his DEA employment. The Judge was informed that Mr.(Briggs)sole connection with Hemming was on 23 May 1975 and that he had no contact with Hemming during any period of Agency employment. The national security consequences of exposure of Mr? Briggs)as well as the career consequences were outlined. In addition, the Judge was informed that Mr. Barteaux was prepared to testify as an overt Agency employee about any relationship between Hemming and CIA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

4. Judge Hoeveler asked Mr. Sakowitz to cross-examine Mr.(Briggs)^03 to determine whether he had any information which might be relevant to Hemming's defense. Mr. Sakowitz stated that although he was aware that Mr. Hemming wished to call Mr.(Briggs)^03 as a witness, he was not fully informed of all aspects of the case and, therefore, reluctant to question Mr. Briggs. Thereupon, Judge Hoeveler, swore in Mr.(Briggs)^03 and proceeded to ask him a series of questions to determine whether Mr.(Briggs)^03 interaction with Mr. Hemming had been in any way connected with his CIA employment.^03 At the conclusion of this examination the Judge gave Mr. Sakowitz a second opportunity to question Mr.(Briggs)^03 and when Mr. Sakowitz again declined, he stated that in light of the national security consequences which had been brought to his attention he was not inclined to permit questions relating to Mr.(Briggs)^03 CIA employment.

5. At the conclusion of the conference in chambers, but before the jury was admitted into the courtroom, Mr. Sherouse informed Mr. Hemming that Mr.(Briggs)^03 was available as a witness. When the trial proceeded Mr. Hemming concluded his defense without calling Mr.^03 Briggs. Mr. Sherouse, however, did call Mr.^03(Briggs) as a rebuttal witness. On cross-examination Mr. Hemming asked Mr. Briggs whether he was with CIA. Mr. Sherouse promptly objected to the question, the Judge sustained the objection and Mr. Hemming went on to the next question. The trial concluded soon afterwards without Mr. Barteaux being called as a witness. It was subsequently learned that Mr. Hemming was found guilty as charged.

![Signature of Edmund Cohen]

Edmund Cohen

EC: jz

Distribution:

Original LITIGATION-CRIMINAL, Hemming Gerald P.

1 - EC Signer

1 - Chrono


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE

# OUTSIDE ACTIVITY APPROVAL REQUEST

COMPLETE AND FORWARD ORIGINAL AND 2 COPIES TO EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

**TO**: DIRECTOR OF SECURITY; ATTN: EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH

**THRU**: (Staff, division or office head and security officer, where assigned)

DATE 7 Jan 77

SL Division security Officer

FROM:
NAME AND GRADE OF EMPLOYEE (Print or type) 03 (CROOGE, THOUARD) 10/3
COMPONENT
ROOM NO. AND BLDG. 5E29
PHONE

1. FULL DESCRIPTION OF OUTSIDE ACTIVITY FOR WHICH APPROVAL IS REQUESTED INCLUDING NAMES OF ORGANIZATIONS OR INDIVIDUALS CONCERNED. DATES. LOCALE. ETC. (Refer to HR 10-7 before completing)

On 7 January 1977 at approx. 1130 hrs. [handwritten] R. Cretericks of in Miami, Florida (Case #0030592, 035-50) wants me to travel to Miami to attend a pre-trial commerce on or about 16 January in order to prepare for possible appearance Le claire Frald Patrick [handwritten] 03

I consulted the SL Division security and advised me to contact the 030. At approx. 1200 hrs this date I so advised as to contact the Office of Security, external activities [handwritten] 03

2. REMARKS BY REQUESTOR

IN ENGAGING IN THE REQUESTED ACTIVITY, I WILL MAKE NO REFERENCE TO OR DISCUSS MY CIA ASSIGNMENTS OR DUTIES. I (WILL, WILL NOT) BE IDENTIFIED AS EMPLOYED BY CIA FOR THE FOLLOWING REASONS:

I was a CIA employee from Jan 69 to May 71 prior to transferring to DIA. I was under cover at that time. I have not been out under cover since my return. (3Jsn77).

3. COMMENTS AND CONCURRENCE OF STAFF. DIVISION OR OFFICE HEAD

CONCUR:

DATE

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING EMPLOYEE

DATE:

SIGNATURE OF OPERATING OFFICIAL

FOR COMPLETION BY EXTERNAL ACTIVITIES BRANCH AND RETURN OF ORIGINAL TO EMPLOYEE

SECURITY APPROVAL HAS BEEN (GRANTED, DENIED) FOR THE ACTIVITY CONTEMPLATED BY THIS REQUEST.

2/R(FOR) CHIEF, SECURITY SUPPORT DIVISION

FORM 070 USE PREVIOUS

CLASSIFY AS APPROPRIATE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

9/7 Mo Soveryn - discuses Sherouse call re Q Doc
- re DCD antwacts of on Drugs - Lets de
  Bob Borteaux to be ready to testify.
  Imp Processy part.
  OMFR on Q Doc

9/6: Spoke wf Tom Sherouse 305 350 5449
Trial 25 Oct.

10/3 Liked wf Sherouse stuff is scheduled for
25 Oct - but calendar call set of
20 Oct. Thurs. Cal Call All call bk on 21 Oct
to see where stand

10/25 Spoke w/ Sherouse Hemmy case is
#8 on Judges calender
on on case # !
earliest is late next wk at earliest
Hemmy - will be owed lawyer

11/15 spoke wf Sherouse sch for 16 Nov needing us
(Barton), (Brygs), Maddox & for rebulled case Hawkes fri late AM
but to call on 16th to check.

11/15 Meet wf Mo S. (Brygs) Maddox, Banteaux review Sherouse
statement, ck on why left agny & why returned, what doing
Sales meet wf Mo & Bautem - got DOD (Appeal) view
re unyat a public exposure on (Brygs) Maddox & briefs
review wf Bautem all record on Hemmy.
reserve for Fri. CA 195 no 18ave 9am - am 11/20

11/17 - Called M - for now

3/P/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

9318 (119 Evans St)
Rockville Md 20850
(340 8186)

(Tom Briggs) 1919

1. gimpel o cover

a Jan 69 - May 74 CIA - Army & ArAmin - Army
"one per ops" identitas

b. My 74 - Jan 77 DEA

c. Jan 77 - No comen, State Guer

2. only antrit wf Hemes
   23 May 75

3. Henry to DC to see Conem - yse se
   Snen ball see Tom -

4 Now Sov - tayet recentments
Why ut 2 sov KGM moty in tous name

from 50 - resyned - law enforcent
& CIA cant - no salad, revinto

3/18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

US vs Hemming (Gevald P. Hemming)
Case No 76-71-Cr-CA

S.D of fla.
Judge Hoeveler

P.O. Bldg & Ct House 300 N.E. First Ave Miami Flonda
Mezzanine floor 350-4136
1st Ave 3 St

Thomas M. Sherouse Ast US Attorney (305) 350 5449 or 4471
Sec Mary Jones 300 Ainsley Bldg. hm 856 2295


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

18.19
521 Florida Ave apt 104
Herndon, Va 22070
Bary Maddox
437-8958
impl
CIA 69-73 - Any Cover utturn
DEA Aug 73 - 26 Feb 77 (common cover)
CID 27 Feb 77 - open 5-6 why then
State Gover now Cuban gas - castro people quarters

2. no later than Dec 76 cabled of Maddox
   none since tok of CIA
   no combat before DEA
   never personal contacted only Manual DEA ants

3. rid of Hemmy met under sner je purchase of navitos in Miamie and, hury, argent re even
   a) without riching sild guns b) purchase Caerm envelope
   of silenced rifle

4. ww = Caba qu-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Heming

Oct 25

1) Jan 62 submitted apple. for engl -

on 21 June 62 informed No. persons aval for him in inquiry

2.) Reads do not reflect he ever employed in any capacity as agent.

but records do show Henry has falsly claimed assoc. with agency on several occas since 1960

3. In Oct 60 3 surrvy in eiry 1961, / Jan 1967, 3 in 1970

ally after 23 Aug 70

on those rums Henry can found for volunteer info

which he hyps might be of value + info to

It on Don Soud people who openly need of any US

Drugs ?

3-re that Doe wt be able help - people that could - cover + selly why not would enable people to -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

![drawing of a spoon, circle and drinking glass]

![circle with numbers 7=9 inside]

Demg was food guilh






---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)