14-00000
104-10174-10030

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

10 May 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Payment to Edvard G. Tichborn (P)

1. On 9 May this office received a telegram (in the file) from Tichborn (P) dated 5 May 1960 in which he stated that he had not yet received his check for $650.00 from Ashmead, Hanniford &
   Associates.

2. The undersigned contacted Mr. Thomas Strange, Cover Division, to find out the reason for this delay. After following up this request he informed me that said check had cleared Tichborn's (P) California bank on 27 April, the Federal Reserve on 29 April and is now in Cover Division as a cancelled check.

3. I tried to phone Tichborn (P) late Monday afternoon (9 May) but he was not in his office. I reached him this morning and advised him that the money had been deposited in his bank on the date noted above. Tichborn (P) said he had not checked with the bank but would do so.

Evalena S. Vidal
Political Action Division

08
-(653203)

zind


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

DOCUMENT

Box Number: JFK64-10

Source Number: 104-10174-10031

CADRE Ref ID: C00556281

Pub Date: 05/05/1960

Pages: 1

![barcode C00556281]

![barcode 104-10174-10031]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASS OF SERVICE
This is a fast message
unders tes deferred char
acter to Indienred by the
proper symbal.

WESTERN UNION
TELEGRAM
W. P. MARSHALL, PassIDENT

SYMBOLS
DL-Day Later
NL Night Lotter
LT Internormal
Les. Telegram

The bling time shown in the dove live ca domestic relegrams is LOCAL TIMF or paint of oricin ThreadrAL TIME M point of dexinรต่อด

LLF429 08154 LA610
L LLJ201 PO LOS ANGELES CALIF 5 250P PDT

HENRY DARKIN
PO BOX 8105 SOUTHWEST STATION WASHDC
NO WORD FROM (ASHMEAD)YET. PLEASE CHECK. MAY HAVEMISMAILED.
BEST REGARDS
(HENRY LOPEZ.)

24

5 6 02

09. 
1. 
01(2532.03)
08


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)