104-10105-10285 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

DD/0 `150223`

14 January 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: (Ed Pechous)
SA/ADDO

SUBJECT : Name Trace - Henry L. BRETTON and PRAEGER ;
Publishing Corporation

REFERENCE : OGC 75-0,088, 10 January 1975

1. In response to the referent request, we have checked IP, OSG/OC, FR, DCD, ITG, and CI files with the following results:

a. IP -- 201-153109
b. OSG/OC - no record
c. FR - no record
d. DCD-- see attachment
e. ITG -- no record
f. CI- no record
g. CCS -- see below

A. The IP 201 file indicated Subject was a former OSS man who had used the name Henry BISMARK. He was met by Contact Division in 1964, apparently on several occasions, due to his plans to accept a position with the University of Accra, Ghana. At that time he indicated he did not want to get involved with the Agency. There is no paper in the file after 1964.

B. CCS reported various agency contacts with PRAFCER but CCS itself has had no such contacts. (Mr. Arthur v. 03,24 Cox (retired 1962) Used PRAECEP as cover while on project 7PEVADF.

F2 IMPDET CL BY 010154

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Subject: Name Trace - Henry L. BRITTON and PRACIP Publishing Corporation (Con't)

2. The results of this check are forwarded in this format to allow you to respond as you may wish to OCC who had requested an answer by 13 January. This confirms my phone conversation of this date.

![signature]
Lee F. Patton
Chief, OSC/OC

-2-

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)