2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

| SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS | CATION TOP AND BOTTOM  |
| ----------------------- | ---------------------- |
| UNCLASSIFIED            | CONFIDENTIAL XX SECRET |

## OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS  | DATE   | INITIALS |
| --- | ----------------- | ------ | -------- |
| 1   | Chief, LEOB       | 8/28   |          |
| 2   | Deputy Chief, SRS | 8-24   |          |
| 3   |                   | 8-2278 |          |
| 4   |                   |        |          |
| 5   |                   |        |          |
| 6   |                   |        |          |

| ACTION | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY |
| APPROVAL | DISPATCH | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT | FILE | RETURN |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION | SIGNATURE |

Remarks:

#58745-

(5) Check Robert KORNGOLD to see if schema with this one, please.
15: Do you have copy for LUERS
file. Thanks

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. | DATE                   |
| --------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| Sarah Hall                        | 8/28/72                |
| UNCLASSIFIED                      | CONFIDENTIAL XX SECRET |

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

28 August 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, SRS

THROUGH : Chief, LEOB/SRS

SUBJECT : KORENGOLD, Robert J. #495685

REFERENCE : CIA Cable No. 689548 dated
22 August 1972 from [London]

1.  Information contained in Subject's file is of a miscellaneous nature. He has had no Agency affiliation or use.

2.  An FBI reply dated 19 October 1966 to an inquiry from this Agency stated that FBI files contained references to Subject's assignment in Moscow as a correspondent for *Newsweek* but did not contain any information of a derogatory nature concerning KORENGOLD.

3.  Extract of Foreign Service Dispatch No. 392 from Amembassy Moscow to the Department of State, Washington, D. C. dated 12 December 1960 listed Robert KORENGOLD as UPI correspondent in Moscow. No remarks were made concerning KORENGOLD.

4.  An Overseas Press Bulletin dated 24 April 1965 reported that *Newsweek*'s bureau chief, Robert KORENGOLD, gave a cocktail party for visiting *Newsweek*'s foreign editor, Robert CHRISTOPHER.

5.  On page 4 of a Department of State report of investigation dated 14 December 1965 regarding the activities of a Department of State employee in Moscow, William Henry LUERS, LUERS said that Robert KORENGOLD, *Newsweek* correspondent, was interested in interviewing a Soviet painter whose work had been shown in Paris. The report further stated "At KORENGOLD's request, LUERS

![WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED]

SECRET

![CLASSIFIED BY stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

attempted to arrange for such a meeting through Andre AMALRIK. After calling from the Embassy to arrange the appointment, LUERS and KORENGOLD went to AMALRIK's apartment. The painter was not there, and shortly after their arrival two militia men and KGB officers came to AMALRIK's apartment. AMALRIK was arrested, tried, and sentenced for being a 'parasite'. LUERS said that his superior at the Embassy, Malcolm TOON, was unhappy about this activity and was critical of LUERS in his efficiency rating because of it. LUERS said he did not previously mention it to the interviewing agent because he did not wish to further complicate matters."
(LUERS was security approved as a GS-7 JOT in June 1957, subject to technical interview, but his case was cancelled when he accepted another position. He was subsequently granted liaison clearances in February and March 1962.)

6. A New York Times article for 11 January 1970 reported that Karel VAN HET REVE had given an exclusive interview to Newsweek's Robert J. KORENGOLD concerning the trial of four Russian dissidents. (Karel VAN HET REVE - #839052 was granted a POA in June 1969 for use as an informant by SB/PO/M, West Europe, under Project 24 AEEGGHEAD.)

7. Subject's file contains a copy of his business card identifying him as UPI correspondent in Moscow. A notation by E. MENDOZA/SRS dated August 1960 states "KORENGOLD's card was picked up by Barbara POWERS in Moscow during trial of Francis POWERS."

8. CIA Cable 389853 dated 29 July 1971 from London advised that Mr. Robert James "Bud" KORENGOLD, London correspondent, Newsweek, had told Mr. Eugene ROSENFELD, Press Attache, American Embassy, London, that Newsweek was planning to do a cover story on the Agency and KORENGOLD was looking for anecdotes favorable to the Agency. Headquarters guidance was requested in cable. A CIA Book Message dated 30 July 1971 was sent priority advising that Newsweek magazine was in process of doing a major story on U.S. intelligence community, including CIA, and while cable recipients were not to seek out Newsweek correspondents, they were to be responsive under certain limitations which were specified in detail in the book message.

SKH:jmn

SECRET

-2-

Sarah K. Hall
SRS/OS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)