# SECRET

104-10122-10405
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SECRETARIAT, DISSEMINATION

SIFIED MESSAGE

GROUP
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

TING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

DISSEM BY: Z
X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH DESTROY SIG.

ACTION WH-8 RID COPY FILE VR. RI/AN, WH/COG-8, DDP, AddP, COCC-2

#081 CI, CE/Ops, SOD-6, CS/DO, (Secur-4) CS/SGO, CI/PS

SECRET 241549Z JUL 68 CITE JMCOBRA 0382

DIRECTOR, (SANTO DOMINGO) INFO (PORT AU PRINCE)

REFS: A. (SANTO DOMINGO) 5907 IN 54327 N

B. (SANTO DOMINGO) 5912 IN 55244 N

C. DIRECTOR 18614 N

1. (SECEN) (WHO ALSO FORMERLY (EM)SHAM-1) IS PARTNER OF PARA 7 REF A COMPANY WHICH WE UNDERSTAND IS LEGITIMATE ENTERPRISE TO EXPLOIT HIS EXTENSIVE CONTACTS IN DOMINICAN MILITARY FOR BUSINESS PURPOSES. (SECEN) HAD SOME CONTACT WITH FATHER GEORGES AT LEAST IN PERIOD BEFORE HIS TERMINATION BY JMWAVE IN AUGUST 66. NO (SECEN) CONTACT WITH FATHER BAJEUX KNOWN BUT JMCOBRA NOT KNOWLEDGEABLE HIS RECENT ACTIVITIES.

2. JMCOBRA HAS NO INFO (SECEN) CURRENTLY IN CONTACT WITH MASFERRER OR THAT MASFERRER PROPOSED TRIP NEW YORK, O'MAILED CONNECTED WITH (SECEN) TRIP SANTO DOMINGO. (ONE OF FORMER JMWAVE CASE OFFICERS OF (SECEN) COMMENTS IT

HIGHLY UNLIKELY (SECEN) CURRENTLY DEALING WITH MASFERRER.

ALSO COMMENTS (SECEN) IMPRESSED HIM AND OTHERS AS HIGHLY COMPETENT TOUGH PROFESSIONAL SOLDIER AND IF INVOLVED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

PAGE 2 JMCOBRA 0382 SECRET

IN OR LEADING TROOPS IN INVASION ATTEMPT HAITI COULD BE
EXPECTED MAKE MUCH STRONGER SHOWING THAN PREVIOUS COMIC-OPERA
ATTEMPTS.

3. SY MANDEL PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH SEYMOUR MANDEL
   FORMER OWNER CRAZY AMERICAN BAR HAVANA WHO NOW SHIP CAPTAIN
   REPUTED BE ENGAGED SMUGGLING AND OTHER ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES
   IN CARIBBEAN. NO LOCAL WOBONE TRACES MAC DONALD AND CARTUS.

SECRET

BT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)