# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

**TO** Chief, Special Affairs Staff

**FROM** Chief of Station, JMWAVE

**SUBJECT** OPERATIONAL/TYPIC/AMFAUNA
Debriefing of AMFAUNA-14

**ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES**

Action Required: For Your Information

1. Following are the results of the debriefing of AMFAUNA-14 in the JMWAVE area from 22 November to 2 December 1963.

2. AMFAUNA-14 did not leave her apartment all day Sunday, 6 Oct. On Monday, 7 October, she went to work as usual. When she arrived, she found a letter waiting for her which had been forwarded to her office from her accommodation address; it was in AMFAUNA-1's handwriting and contained nothing of any interest, so she was sure there was a secret writing message on it.

3. At 1255 hours two men arrived at the office, one about 45 years old and short, who from his appearance might have been a bus driver, and the other a very young dark-skinned man. They walked into the office vestibule and told the guard that they wanted to see AMFAUNA-14. The guard came into the office to give AMFAUNA-14 the message, and the two men followed right behind. They told AMFAUNA-14 that she had to come with them to identify an arrested person. AMFAUNA-14 said that she would have to ask her supervisor for permission to leave, because it was not yet closing time. She turned to go back into the office, and the two men followed her in. The supervisor told her that it would be all right for her to go, but said that she should check in by phone if there were any difficulty. AMFAUNA-14's father and uncle, both of whom work in the same office, asked whether they could come with her. The men said no, because she would be coming right back; they said they were taking her to "G-2" headquarters in La Vibora.

Continued......

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - Chief, SAS

INDEX-X

CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4. AMFAUNA-14 tried to dispose of the letter she had just received from ANFAUNA-1 by leaving it on the desk of a fellow employee together with some potatoes and a carrot for cover, but the men would not let her. She did, however, manage to destroy a page from her notebook containing telephone numbers.

5. At the DSE headquarters in Villa Maristas, AMFAUNA-14 was turned over to a militiawoman who had her strip and performed a body search on her. She was fingerprinted and photographed and her biographic data were taken down, after which she was locked in a cell which had an adjoining private bath. Nothing else of importance happened for the rest of the day.

6. During her four-day detention period, AMFAUNA-14 was handled by the following DSE officers:

Francisco ABAD: AMFAUNA-14 believes that this is his real name. He did not introduce himself, but she saw the name on her release papers which he signed. He was born about 1918 and is about 5'4" tall, weighs about 160 pounds, and has a fat build, aquiline nose, greenish eyes, dark skin, grey-brown wavy hair, rough laborer's hands, and two teeth missing from the lower jaw. He smokes both cigars and cigarettes, his manner was soft and kindly, and AMFAUNA-14 believes he is probably poorly educated. He is married, but AMFAUNA-14 did not learn whether he has children or what his address is. He wears civilias clothes and drives a black 1956 Pontiac with a grey roof. Discussing this man later in the AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Pedro CARRILLO (who is a brother of Justo CARRILLO) that Pedro knows ABAD. According to Pedro, ABAD is part Jewish and an old Communist who worked in the Havana underground on behalf of Fidel CASTRO during the Batista period. Pedro CARRILLO thinks that ABAD may now have some regrets about the course he has taken.

(b) "Carlos" aka "Samuel": AMFAUNA-14 does not know his true name. He was born about 1942 or perhaps a little earlier. He is about 5'6" tall, weighs about 150 pounds, and has a muscular build, drooping eyelids, light olive skin, wavy chestnut hair with a widows peak. He is a nervous pacer, and walks with his head bent forward and tilted slightly to one side. An expression which he frequently used was "O.K." pronounced "OKAH" with the accent on the first syllable. He told AMFAUNA-14 that he had been a student in the Commercial School of Havana, that he had worked clandestinely under the Batista regime, had been arrested by Col. Esteban VENTURA Novo, had been released due to the influence of his father, and had gotten out of the country with the aid of the Mexican Ambassador to Cuba, coming then to the United States. He drives a 1959 black and white Chevrolet Corvair, wears civilian clothes, and carries a pistol, sometimes a .45 and sometimes a .38. AMFAUNA-14 believes him to be a 100% Communist. She thinks he may have been somewhat better trained than Francisco ABAD and may have been somewhat superior in rank, although this was never clearly evident There seemed to be a little professional jealousy between the two men. If she told one man something which she had been unable to remember for the other, the second would show signs of jealousy or resentment. "Carlos" subsequently told AMFAUNA-14 to phone 61-4319 and ask for "Samuel" when she wanted to reach him. She phoned him at this number about ten times in all. The phone was always answered by the same wasn, except for once when a boy answered and then called for his ncther to come and take the phone. AMFAUNA-14 would ask for "Samuel" and the woman would invariably reply that he was not there. AMFAUNA-14 would then ask the woman to take a message for him to please call "Dolores." The woman would always reply "Yes, Comrade." Discussing this person later within the AMCOG household, AMFAUNA-14 was told by Israel PADILLA that he thought "Carlos" was Samuel RODILES.

Comment: The physical description of "Carlos" does not match that of Bamuel RODILES Plana. Telephone number 61-4319 is listed in the 1962 Havana telephone directory to one Maria Antonia CARCANO Araujo, Artes 47, Casablanca, Havana, WAVE traces on this


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 14-00000

name include HCSA-09896 of 23 April 1963 showing that one Maria CARCANO Arujo (born 7 December 1935) travelled to Chile in March and April 1963 on a diplomatic passport. An AMOT report of 27 September 1962 mentions one Antonia CARCANO Araujo as a communist in charge of vigilance, and living at 47 Artes St., Casablanca. There also appears to be a Maria ARAUJO (born about 1902) who is an old-time Communist living at Artes 47. AMPAUNA-1 has been given the names of several former residents of this neighborhood in hopes of finding a relative of the CARCANO or ARAUJO families whose physical description matches that of "Carlos." AMPAUNA-1 has also interviewed Col. VENTUELA in the WAVE area. VENTURA remsaberas case similar to that of "Carlos" but does not remember the boy's name. He says that he seems to remoaber that the boy's father was connected with one Jose LOPEZ Villaboy (on whom WAVE has numerous traces) and that he was assisted in getting to Mexico by a Mexican diplomat named "Benjamin."

(c) Fnu Inu: This man appeared a few times during AMFAUNA-14's interrogation. She never heard his name at this time, but later saw him on television interrogating AMBIGHA-2 and he was identified then as Jose Antonio FERNANDEZ Menert. She does not believe that this is his true name, because it is her understanding that DSE officers use aliases in their public appearances. He is about 5'11" tall, slender, with darkish skin and black hair combed straight back. He has very large green cold eyes. He was born about 1939 and appears to be un-educated, with a cynical and vulgar manner. He wears civilian clothes.

7. At about 1600 or 1700 hours on Tuesday, 8 October, AMFAUNA-14 was brought into ABAD's office for her first interview. ABAD began by asking if she knew why she was there. AMFAUNA-14 replied that she had no idea. ABAD observed that that was strange, because he had judged her to be an able and intelligent woman.

8. Honestly believing that she might have been denounced by the jealous wife of her lover, Manuel COMPANIONI, AMFAUNA-14 suggested that it might be a personal matter.

9. ABAD said that it was not. He then asked her if she knew Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret. AMPAUNA-14 said that she did not. ABAD said that this was strange, because VILLAR Negret knew her. He asked if she knew one Angel BRINGAS. AMFAUNA-14 said that she did. ABAD asked why, if she knew BRINGAS, she would deny knowing his cousin NEGRET

10. AMPAUNA-14 said that she knew the man as Luis NEGRET and had not recognised the name VILLAR Negret.

11. ABAD told AMFAUNA-14 that NEGRET was then under detention and had implicated AMFAUNA-14 in his confession. ABAD wanted to know what AMFAUNA-14's connection with NEGRET had been. AMFAUNA-14 said that NEGRET had been in her house once, and once in her mother's.

12. At this point in the interrogation, ABAD was called away and ANFAUNA-14 was returned to her cell. Two hours later the interrogation vas resumed.

13. ABAD picked up where he had left off, and asked AMFAUNA-14 what connection she had had with Angel BRINGAS. AMFAUNA-14 said that she had known BRINGAS no better than she had known NEGRET. ABAD said that she was lying and urged that she cooperate. AMFAUNA-14 promised that she would cooperate. ABAD said that NEGRET had told the DSE that AMFAUNA-14 had had sexual relations with BRINGAS, and AMFAUNA-14 denied the allegation.

14 The interrogation was again interrupted, and AMFAUNA-14 was returned to her cell. When she returned to the interrogation room, she saw that ABAD had an envelope containing what she recognized to be papers taken from her apartment, including airline passenger manifests, deciphering material, instructions for using the deciphering material, and insurance policies and personal papers belonging to AMFAUNA-1. AMPAUNA-14 now realized that it was time for her to pretend to

![photo of Form 53a Use previous edition]

![photo of Classification Secret]

![photo of Page No. 3]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

cooperate with the DSE, as AMFAUNA-1 had briefed her to do in such a situation.

15. ABAD began by telling her that she was in a very serious situation, because he know that she had had very close connections with a KUBARK agent. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-1 was identical with "Julio." AMFAUNA-14 said that AMFAUNA-1 had been known as "Julio," ABAD then wanted to know whether NEGRET had been working with "Julio." AMFAUNA-14 denied this. ABAD asked whether NEGRET had known "Julio." AMFAUNA-14 denied this too, but volunteered the information that "Julio" had provided NEGRET with mail facilities, and that AMFAUNA-14 had been the cutout between them. Did NEGRET know of "Julio's" existance, ABAD wanted to know. AMFAUNA-14 said that he and not, that she had brought NEGRET mail and money which she had gotten from "Julio," and had picked mail up from him and delivered it to "Julio," but that NEGRET had never known "Julio's" identity.

16. The truth about AMFAUNA-14's relations with NEGRET and BRINGAS according to her statements to her KUBARK case officer in November 1963 in the JMWAVE area, is as follows:

(a) In about mid-1962, AMCOG-2 asked AMFAUNA-14 to serve as cutout between herself and an unidentified agent, and AMFAUNA-14 agreed. AMFAUNA-14 was driven to the meeting site, which was on the sidewalk in front of a textile factory near Calle 100 in Marianao, by ANCOG-2's chauffeur, a Spaniard named "Segundo." This agent introduced himself to AMFAUNA-14 only as "El #NEGRO", and AMFAUNA-14 described herself to him as an employee of an unidentified embassy. For contact purposes, "El Negro" gave her the telephone number 29-4900 or 20-4900.

(b) Later, when AMFAUNA-14 began to trust "El Negro" more, she gave him the telephone number of her mother. She learned that "R1 Regro's" true name was Las Braulio VILLAR Negret, and that he lived in a small room in the rear of the textile factory. The telephone number which he had given her was always answered by a woman whose name she learned to be "Maximina."

(c) VILLAR Negret was born about 1928, and was about 5'11" tall with broad shoulders and a strong build. He had black wavy hair, brown eyes, an olive skin, and a face marked by acne. AMFAUNA-14 never learned anything about his family directly from him, but DSE officers told her that he was married with one child, and that his parents lived on a farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

(d) VILLAR Negret was a member of the Acción Revolucionaria Democratica, which AMFAUNA-14 understands to be a successor organization to the AAA of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango. He had formerly belonged to an action component of this organization, but more recently had de- voted himself to intelligence collection. AMFAUNA-14 brought him instructions and money from AMCOG-2, and picked up his intelligence reports which she delivered to ANCOG-2. She understands that AMCOG-2 sent these reports via diplomatic channels to Frank PAEZ inMiami FLA,USA. They were delivered them to an individual identified only as "El Fajiro Doraddez," The last contact which AMFAUNA-14 had had with "El Negro" was in mid September 1963 when he passed her a report which he said concerned a missile base, and a book on Communist infiltration in Colombia.

(e) Once when "El Negro" was sick, he sent his cousin to meet with AMPAUNA-14. This cousin was Angel BRINGAS, an employee of an X-ray equipment company at 23rd and 0. 14 Rampa, Vedado, telephonet 70-5870. On various other subsequent occasions, BRINGAS Filled in for "I Negro."

(f) According to what the DSE officers told her, "El Negro" was arrested about 1 October and was to be shot. AMFAUNA-14 asked her DSE interrogators whether it would not be possible to reindoctrinate "El Negro" instead of shoot him, but they told her that it was not worth the trouble because "El Negro" was a person of low morals who.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# 14-00000

be shown to Angel BRINGAS when and if he is caught.

(g) On 12 or 13 October 1963, after AMFAUNA-14 had been re-
leased, she was telephoned at her place of employment by Angel BRINGAS
who told her guardedly that "El Negro" had been arrested and said that
he would like to send a female cousin of his to talk to AMFAUNA-14. A
meeting was arranged in the home of AMFAUNA-14's mother. The female
cousin, whose name was "Gladys", told AMFAUNA-14 that BRINGAS had gone
into hiding and wondered whether "the family with which she worked"
(the AMCOGS) could help him get into asylum. AMFAUNA-14 said that she
doubted this. "Gladys" told AMFAUNA-14 that, in case it were possible
to do anything for BRINGAS, she should telephone "Gladys" with an
innocent message. It was understood that a meeting would take place at
1800 hours on the same day of the telephone call at the Ten Cent Store
23rd between 10th and 12th in Vedado. AMFAUNA-14 does not remember
Gladys' telephone number which was left with her mother.

(h) In spite of what AMFAUNA-14 told the DSE, AMFAUNA-1 had
had nothing to do with NEGRET. AMFAUNA-14 had told this story to pro-
tect ANCOO-3. NEGRET had known that AMCOG-2 was involved, and had once
had a meeting with her in her home. Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-14 briefed
ANCOG-2 on the cover story which she had told the DSE and told her that,
in case she were ever arrested and questioned, she should admit having
talked to NEGRET in her home, but deny having been involved in the
communications channel or knowing anything about it.

Station Comment: Luis Braulio VILLAR Negret appears to be
identical with Luis *NEGRE* Villar (born 4 November 1930 in Consolacion
del Sur, Pinar del Rio), who is carded as ACSI source No. 492 and
appears in AMBUD correspondence as National Coordinator of the Accion
Revolucionaria Democratica. "El Guajiro Bermudez" appears to be iden-
tical with Gerardo Jose *QUESADA Vasquez (201-292022) (born 9 May 1919,
Pinar del Rio), President and founder of Accion Revolucionaria Democratica
and ACCX couree No. 199. There are no Station traces on Angel BRINGAS.
161 The 1968 Havana telephone directory has no listing ander *20-4900, VOA
86-4900 18 listed το KaraelFLABATUT, DAY 39 #4117, Marianno JMWAVE
has no traces on him. There is no listing under 70-5570. However,
under 70-5579 there is the Cubana de Rayos X y Foto, S.A., Calle 23
#72, La Rampa.)

CUBA
RE.INFO. PROVIDED DY
201332675

17. ABAD appeared to be particularly interested in how NEGRET and
    "Julio" obtained their funds, and kept returning to this subject during
    the interrogation.

18. ABAD then addressed himself to the contents of the envelope
    and a suitcase found in AMFAUNA-14's apartment. He commented that all
    these things appeared to belong to AMFAUNA-1 and his son, and asked how
    they happened to be there. AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1 and his
    son, together with AMFAUNA-3, had been hiding for a few days in her
    apartment because their usual hiding place had become unavailable.

19. ABAD wanted to know how and when AMFAUNA-14 had first met
    AMPAUNA-1. ANFAUNA-14 replied that she had met AMFAUNA-1 in about
    February 1962, that AMFAUNA-1 had regularly parked his car in a lot near
    her office and that they had seen each other on the street frequently,
    that ANFAUNA-1 had finally spoken to her, and that a friendship had
    developed which finally turned into a love affair. (Comment: This was
    a lie told to conceal the fact that it had been AMCUTLER-2 who had in-
    troduced them.) She said that AMFAUNA-1 had been her lover until about.
    July 1962 when she broke up with him because he was too busy with
    clandestine work to pay the proper amount of attention to her.

20. ABAD asked what part AMFAUNA-14 had played in AMFAUNA-1's
    clandestine activities. AMFAUNA-14 replied that AMFAUNA-1would some-
    times telephone her late at night to invite her to go out for a ride,
    and she would then find that AMFAUNA-1 was going out to have agent
    meetings and wanted her along for cover. ABAD asked whom AMFAUNA-1 had
    bean meeting. AMFAUNA-14 mentioned a person known as "Gustavo" and

![photo of classified document ending on page 5]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH. SECRET. UFGA-12894

gave the physical description of AMFAUNA-24, whom she knew to be safely out of Cuba. (She never knew AMFAUNA-24's true name.) She also mentioned Manolo *VILLAMANAN*, the true name of AMFAUNA-13 (whom she had known only as AMFAUNA-1's business partner but when she thought she could safely mention now that he was out of Cuba.) For good measure she added a notional name and physical description.

21. Referring back to AMFAUNA-1's automobile, ABAD asked what kind of a car he had driven. AMFAUNA-14 replied that it was a gray Chevrolet Impala. She repeated that AMFAUNA 1 had formerly parked it near her office, but said that she had not seen it recently. ABAD asked where AMFAUNA-l's red car was, and she said she did not know. He asked what the license number on this car was, and she said she did not know. He never asked anything about the third car which AMFAUNA-1 had obtained.

22. ABAD commented that the DSE had observed AMFAUNA-1 in his automobile in the Havana dock area on 1 January 1963, having a meeting with another person. (AMFAUNA-14 recalls that this other person was AMPAUNA-24, and that he and AMFUANA-1 had rendezvoused in the dock area after an attempt to pick up AMFAUNA-1's radio.

23. With reference to the KUBARK agent known as "Julio", whom they had recently identified with AMFAUNA-1, ABAD said that he knew that "Julio" had left Cuba in October 1962 and believed that he had gone to Europe, but he said he did not know whether "Julio" had gone clandestinely or legally.

24. AMFAUNA-14 was asked about AMFAUNA-1's subsources in other provinces, but she said she knew nothing about them. ABAD said he was sure that ANPAUNA-l had a good source on the Tale of Pineя. Whose war name night be "Raul". ABAD also mentioned the name of a person who had been shot about two weeks previously and who he believed had been work-ing with AMFAUNA-1. (AMFAUNA-14 does not remember the name of this person.)

25. ABAD asked if AMFAUNA-1's son had helped him in this clandes-tine work. ANFAUNA-14 replied that the son had been with AMFAUNA-1 frequently, but that she thought it was only because he was helping AMPAUNA-1 with his business and that the son probably had had nothing to do with clandestine work.

26. ABAD again turned to the envelope of papers found in AMFAUNA-14's apartment, and said he could see she was not cooperating with him. She was not volunteering information, he said, but waiting to be asked questions. ABAD said he was sure that there was much that AMFAUNA-14 could tell him spontaneously, and he intimated that there might be a chance for her to rehabilitate herself.

27. ABAD asked her where the passenger lists came from. AMFAUNA-14 replied that they had been left in her apartment by AMFAUNA-1, who intended to instruct her later by SW what to do with them. She said that AMFAUNA-1 had trained her in this system, and had left her his materials, so that he could use her as a stop-gap communications link while he was trying to reorganize his net.

CIT:CUBA AC.DA RE.COMACT W/201332664.

28. ABAD told her that this was plainly not true, because some of the lists were dated later than AMFAUNA-1's departure date. He said he wisupposed they had been brought to AMFAUNA-14's apartment by AMCUTLER-2, who had been observed coming there on 5 October with Lol1 CORREOS0. (This was true, according to AMFAUNA-14. AMCUTLER-2 and Lolin CORREOSO had brought the passenger manifests to AMFAUNA-14's house at about 1630 or 1700 hours on 5 October, and had stayed about fifteen minutes. AT 1400 hours that same day, AMPAUNA-14 had had a meeting with AMFAUNA-39, the first in two weeks, initiated by AMFAUNA-39 by means of a telephone call to AMPAUNA-1's mother who was serving as cutout between them. AMPAINA-39 had called the meeting to ask whether she had received any instructions from AMFAUNA-1 as to how to act in case of an internal uprising, which a number of people in Cuba seemed to be expecting about that time as a result of the destinit198 caused by Hurricane Flore No.

![aperture card reproduction]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

(The DSE interrogators never at any time mentioned AMFAUNA-39, or asked her about this earlier meeting, so AMFAUNA-14 concludes that she had not been under intensive surveillance that day; either AMCUTLER-2 had been under surveillance on 5 October, or she herself had been under some kind of periodic spot check.)

29. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 how she had become acquainted with AMCUTLER-3, and AMFAUNA-14 replied that she had met AMCUTLER-2 through AMFAUNA-15, the wife of a cousin of AMFAUNA-14 who is a prisoner on the Isle of Pines.

30. ABAD then asked AMFAUNA-14 where her SW materials were, which surprised AMFAUNA-14 because she had thought they had been found during her house search and were part of the incriminating envelope which ABAD was holding. AMFAUNA-14 told ABAD where to look for the materials, and he sent somebody to get them.

31. ABAD wanted to know how AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-3 had gotten out of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know. She said she understood they were to get their instruction on the street once they had left her apart- mont.

32. ABAD abruptly asked AMFAUNA-14 whether she knew anybody in Luyano. AMFAUNA-14 said she did not. ABAD then produced a photograph of ANFAUNA-14 together with AMFAUNA-1 and AMWEE-2 and told her that she had been in AMWEE-2's home in Luyano with AMFAUNA-1 on Saturday, 7 September He asked AMFAUNA-14 whether AMWEE-2 were employed in an embassy. AMFAUNA 14 said she did not know but that she thought so. She said she knew AMWEE-2 to be a personal friend of AMFAUNA-1, and thought that he might occasionally have helped AMFAUNA-1 with his mail. (It was true that AMFAUNA-14 had gone to AMWEE-2's house on 7 September with AMFAUNA-1. Later the same day AMFAUNA-1 took her to Miramar to introduce her to Cap aang. Because the DSE never expressed any interest in AMFAUNA-39, AMFAUNA-14 concluded that they had not observed this meeting, and that therefore it had been AMWEE-2 who had been under surveillance on 7 September and not herself or AMFAUNA-1. She also concluded that the DSE had been inefficient in not transferring their surveillance to herself and AMFAUNA-1.)

33. ABAD again changed the subject suddenly. "Where is the radio?" he asked. "Could AMWEE-2 have it?" AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know anything about a radio. "Where is the camera?" asked ABAD. AMFAUNA-14 admitted having seen AMFAUNA-1 with a Minox camera, but said she did not know what AMFAUNA-1 had done with it. She said she had hoped that AMFAUNA-1 would leave it with her, and pretended to be hurt that he had not done so. ABAD asked her whether she had ever seen one like it in the ANCOG house, and AMFAUNA-14 said that she had. Throughout the interrogation, ABAD kept reverting to the subject of the camera and the radio.

34. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 what her connection was with the AMCOG family. She replied that her grandmother was the cousin of AMCOG-3's mother. ABAD said that the whole family had been under observation for a long time, and mentioned an organization (name not remembered by AMFAUNA-14) which AMCOG-2 had worked with during the Batista era. What, he wanted to know, was AMCOG-3 doing. AMFAUNA-14 said that she did not think he was doing anything clandestine. ABAD replied that the DSE was positive that AMCOG-3 was doing secret work. AMFAUNA-14 said that the DSE should not delude itself, that the entire family was too selfish to engage in anything of the kind.

35. ABAD asked what the diplomatic visitors to the AMCOG household talk about. AMFAUNA-14 said that they never talk politics. ABAD asked about the attitude of "the Doctor" (AMCOG-3's uncle), and AMFAUNA-14 said that he was waiting for the situation to settle.

36. "What about AMFAUNA-3?" asked ABAD. "Did she work with AMFAUNA-1?" AMFAUNA-14 said that she did not, but that she sometimes gave him information. ABAD wanted to know whether AMFAUNA-3 had been working with some one in Florida. AMFAUNA-14 answered that ARFAUNA-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET UFGA-12894

had been involved somehow with her sister who lives in Florida. ABAD
asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had been a good friend of AMFAUNA-3, and she
said that she had been. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-14 had ever heard
AMFAUNA-3 speak about the Escambray insurgents. AMFAUNA-14 said that
she had not. ABAD asked whether AMFAUNA-3 had had contacts with any
embassy people, for example the Spanish Embassy. ANFAUNA-14 said that
she did not know of any such contacts.

37. "How about AMCUTLER-37" asked ABAD. "We know that she spends
    a lot of time there." AMFAUNA-14 said she did not know.

38. ABAD asked AMFAUNA-14 if she were a revolutionary. AMFAUNA-14
    said that she was not, but that neither was the against the revolution.
    She said that she had joined the militia early in the revolution, but
    had soon dropped out because there were some things about the revolution
    which she did not understand. For instance, she could not understand
    why there should be so many shortages and rationing, whereas before the
    revolution there had been plenty. ABAD explained that the shortages were
    the result of the imperialist blockade of Cuba. AMFAUNA-14 said that
    she could understand this, but that it did not explain why there should
    be a shortage of coffee when Cuba grew its own. ABAD said that coffee
    was in short supply because Cuba was sending coffee to the Soviet Union
    in gratitude for Soviet assistance in overcoming shortages caused by the
    imperialist blockade. AMFAUNA-14 replied that this was very logical
    now that it had been explained to her, and said she wondered why the
    revolutionary government did not publicly say so in order to put an end
    to public grumbling on the subject.

39. Early in the morning of 9 October, ABAD produced the letter
    which AMFAUNA-14 received from AMFAUNA-1 on 7 October and held up the
    letter to the light, examining it carefully for traces of SW. AMFAUNA-
    14's developer pills were brought, and she was told to develop the letter
    which she did in the presence of ABAD, "Carlos," and a third man whom
    she was unable to get a good look at. All were very surprised and
    disappointed when no secret writing appeared. They kept asking her if
    she were sure she was doing it right, and began intimating that she was
    deceiving them. (Station Comment: It is indeed surprising that no
    secret writing appeared, because this letter was almost undoubtedly the
    one containing SW message no. 1 to AMFAUNA-14.)

40. AMFAUNA-14 also explained the use of her carbons. The only
    accommodation address she gave away was AMFAUNA-1's JMWAVE area post
    office box. She deliberately protected the (Rosa JUSTIZ address. (the
    home of AMPAN-2), not knowing whether this was a real or a fictitious
    person.

41. "Carlos" and ABAD now invited AMFAUNA-14 to work with them. She
    replied that she might be willing to do so, but first wanted to know
    what work would be expected of her. For instance, she said, she would
    not inform on people in her office. They told her that this would not
    be asked of her, because that sort of work is done by the Defense
    Committees. Her work, they said, would be much more important, namely
    maintaining a link between themselves and KUBARK. She said that would
    be all right, but she was afraid that it would not last long because
    KUBARK would probably put her on ice as soon as they learned that she
    had been arrested. They told her not to worry about that.

42. "Carlos" and ABAD suggested to her that AMFAUNA-1 had briefed
    her to agree to cooperate with them. She denied this, claiming that she
    had not really wanted to work with ANFAUNA-1 at all, but had merely let
    herself be imposed on for old times sake. They asked whether they
    could trust her. She said she thought so, and asked whether she could
    trust them to keep their promises. They assured her that she could,
    and said she would be released the following day.

43. In the morning of 10 October, after being told that she was to
    be released, AMPAUNA-14 was moved to a smaller cell without a bath. She
    sont for ABAD and complained that he had double-crossed her. He told


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

## CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

**SECRET**

UFGA-12894

43. Her that he was going to keep his word and release her, but that her original cell was needed for some new prisoners who were expected. He said that the DSE had received advance word that a boatload of refugees were going to try to leave Cuba that night. Many of them were women, and one of those was pregnant, so he wanted the larger cell with bath for them.

44. ABAD always treated AMFAUNA-14 kindly and considerately. When she had a headache, he ordered aspirin for her. He saw to it that she received soft drinks when she wanted them, and he seemed to be honestly distressed whenever she wept. AMFAUNA-14 believes that it had been the DSE's intention from the very beginning to recruit her, because she doubts that all DSE prisoners are treated as well.

45. The first SW message which AMFAUNA-14 wrote while under DSE control was dated 10 October, the day of her release. The DSE officers asked her what her control signal was, and she replied that it was a rubric, but also included her true control signal. She deliberately numbered her first controlled SW message no. 2, to conceal the fact that she had already written several messages containing intelligence reports.

46. In all she wrote three SW messages under control. She was obliged to write each one in duplicate, one of which was mailed and the other given to the DSE for study. One day "Carlos" came to her very angrily, said he doubted that her carbons were anything more than ordinary paper because he had been unable to develop anything that she had written, and threatened her with rearrest. AMFAUNA-14 told him that she did not know anything about it, but that if by chance he had tried to develop the letters she had written with the pills he had taken from her, it would not work. This surprised "Carlos," and AMFAUNA-14 explained that there were two different SW systems, one for outgoing mail and the other for incoming. "Carlos" then asked her if there were any significance to the size of envelope used, or to the way the letter paper was folded. AMFAUNA-14 said she did not think so. AMFAUNA-14 feels that "Carlos" and ABAD never completely believed that she had an SW system, because none of the letters which she received disclosed SW when developed, and none of the letters which she wrote showed any traces of SW when held up to glancing light.

47. "Carlos" was the DSE officer who maintained contact with AMPAUNA-16 after her release. For two or three weeks he saw her every day at her apartment, sometimes for only twenty minutes, and sometimes staying for several hours, frequently late at night. Occasionally he called her at her office. Finally AMFAUNA-14 told him that she had to get up early in the morning to go to work, and asked him to visit her early in the evening, which he agreed to do. At the time of the in-tercepted AMGLOSSY landing in Pinar del Rio, "Carlos" did not visit ANFAUNA-14 for five days. When he finally returned, he was dirty, sweaty and tired. He dictated an SW letter he wanted AMFAUNA-14 to send to KUBARK, and while she was writing it he fell asleep.

48. AMFAUNA-14 had to prepare written reports for him, which she signed with the pseudonym "Dolores." He told her never to call him at DSE headquarters, because he was never there. Once he brought her a book on Marxism to read, and promised to take her someday to visit a collective farm in Pinar del Rio Province.

49. Despite his occasional efforts to get her to pick up the threads of the AMFAUNA net, AMPAUNA-14 believes that the primary target she was intended to work against was the AMCOG household. From remarks made by both ABAD and "Carlos", she deduced that they already had an informer in the house, but that they were not satisfied with his production. Toward the end of her period of DSE -controlled activity, she felt that the DSE was becoming relatively less interested in AMFAUNA-1 and his net, and more in the AMCOG household.

50. They asked her about one Vicente LAGO, who is a regular guest at the AMCOG house and who seems to be particularly interesting to them.

> [Figure] Aperture card reproductions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:

201-277537

They also wanted to know what diplomats visit the AMCOGs. When she mentioned the Liberian Consul (Tomas *QUESADA*), they exclaimed and said they were very interested in him, and asked whether she could arrange invitations to his house. Other diplomatic personnel AMFAUNA-14 mentioned as visitors to the AMCOG include Wanda FOSCHINI (the wife of an Italian diplomat), Marie BOISSYVAIN (the wife of the Dutch Ambassador), Brazilian Ambassador Luis BASTIAN Pinto, a female secretary of the United Arab Republic Embassy and wife of a former Japanese Ambassador. Fortunately, during the four weeks following AMPAUNA-14's release from DSE custody, no diplomats visited the AMCOG house.

RE visits to 201-294718 household

51. With the knowledge and encouragement of the DSE, AMFAUNA-14 visited the AMCOG house nearly every day. Her first visit took place at noon on 11 October and she stayed until about 1800 hours, during which time she told AMCOG-3 the entire story. He listened and took a few notes, but kept most of the story in his memory. He encouraged and calmed AMFAUNA-14, told her to follow DSE instructions to the letter and assured her that KUBARK would send her instructions.

52. AMFAUNA-14's immediate preoccupations were AMCUTLER-2 and AMWEE-2 (whom she knew to be blown to the DSE as KUBARK agents), AMFAUNA-39 (who was not yet identified but had her telephone number and might call her at any moment with damaging results to himself), and the possible arrival of SW messages from KUBARK naming other agent personnel.

53. On 11 October, the day after her release, AMFAUNA-14 sent a message in AMCUTLER-2 via AMFAUNA-18 and the mother of Manolo VILLAWAMAN warning her that she had been arrested. She also asked AMCOG-2 to send a warning to AMWEE-2.

54. On 13 or 14 October, AMCOG-2 went to the home of Albertina O'FARRILL where she met Wanda FOSCHINI whom she asked merely to warn AMWEE-2 that the DSE had AMWEE-2 identified. Two or three days later, Wanda FOSCHINI reported back to AMCOG-2 that AMWEE-2 evidently was not taking the warning seriously. By this time, however, AMFAUNA-14 was sure that AMWEE-2 knew that something was wrong, because he had telephoned AMFAUNA-I's mother asking for "Soledad" and had been told that "Soledad" was unknown. (Regarding Albertina O'FARRILL'S knowledge of these developments, AMFAUNA-14 believes that she probably knew nothing - more than that AMFAUNA-14 had been arrested and then released.)

55. On 13 October AMFAUNA-14 sent a warning telephone call to AMFAUNA-39. She dialled (20-8192) and told the woman who answered "Please tell Manolo that Soledad called and that he should not telephone me because I am going to be out of Havana and will call him when I return." AMFAUNA-14 is not sure now whether AMCOG-3, whom she consulted on the best way to do this, had noted the telephone number.

56. Another person to whom AMFAUNA-14 sent a warning was her lover Manuel COMPANIONI whose warname is Alejandro. Unbeknownst to AMCOG-3, she sent a message to COMPANIONI via AMCOG-3's chauffeur telling him to stay away from her but asking him to telephone her occasionally.

57. On 20 October when she arrived home from work, AMFAUNA-14 found "Carlos" waiting downstairs for her. Trying to divert his attention from the mail box, she invited him to come right in, but he asked her why she did not open her mail box first. She did so and found two letters from AMFAUNA-1, dated 19 and 25 September. They both contained veiled references to names like "Carmina" (AMCUTLER-2), "Edgardo," (AMFAUNA-37), "El Grande" (AMFAUNA-25), and "Igor" (AMWEE-2). One of them instructed AMFAUNA-14 to have "Carmina" introduce her to "Edgardo" and the other intimated that "Igor" had something for her.

58. "Carlos" ordered her to develop these letters, and she did so. No secret writing appeared, which did not surprise AMFAUNA-14 because the letters themselves contained instructions for her, but it did


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

surprise "Carlos" who again began to accuse AMFAUNA-14 of double-
crossing him. AMFAUNA-14 explained the absence of SW by saying that
KUBARK was probably testing its communications channels and waiting
for things to quiet down before sending messages.

59. "Carlos" then told AMFAUNA-14 to get in touch with ALWEE2
    and get the package which he was holding for her. She telephoned
    ANWER-2 from her office and said she wanted to see him. AMWEE-2 agreed
    to a meeting, but stipulated that it be after 1700 hours and in his
    office. AMFAUNA-14 reported this conversation to "Carlos" who told
    her to proceed with the meeting.

60. AMWEE-2 took AMFAUNA-14 into a small room, where she quickly
    explained the situation (she felt she should not spend much time in
    ANWER-2's office because she was afraid the DSE had her under surveil-
    lance; this was confirmed latero when "Carlos" asked her casually how
    much time she had spent in AMWEE-2's office, apparently trying to
    catch her out in a lie). AMWEE)-2 seemed surprised, and worried, and
    told her to take care of herself. She told AMWEE-2 that the reason
    the DSE had wanted her to meet with him was to pick up a package which
    they believed he was holding for her. AMWEE-2 replied that he was no
    longer in a position to receive or send packages, because the diplomat
    with whom he had been cooperating had been declared persona non grata.

61. "Carlos" also told AMFAUNA-14 to contact AMCUTLER-2 to arrange
    the introduction to "Edgardo." AMFAUNA-14 telephoned AMCUTLER-2's
    number, expecting to be told that AMCUTLER-2 was not there, and was
    very surprised when AMCUTLER-2 herself came to the telephone. AMFAUNA-
    14 told AMCUTLER-2 that she wanted to see her, but AMCUTLER-2 said she
    had a bad case of asthma and could not see anybody. AMFAUNA-14 re-
    ported this conversation to "Carlos."

AMETINA-14 decided that AMCUTLER-2 had either not received or
had not understood the warning message sent to her, so she sent
AMCUTLER-2 two more oral messages via AMFAUNA-15 and one via Lolita
explicitly advising her to hide or take asylum.

63. "Carlos" continued to press AMFAUNA-14 to see AMCUTLER-2, and
    ANCUTLER-2 showed no signs of heeding AMFAUNA-14's warnings. AMFAUNA-14
    therefore sent one more message, this time a written one, via Lolita
    saying that she really must see AMCUTLER-2 in the latter's
    home for the purpose of coordinating cover stories. AMCUTLER-2 then
    paid a visit to the home of Lolita to pass the message that she
    agreed to the meeting.

64. On 3 November, with the knowledge of "Carlos," AMFAUNA-14 went
    to ANCUTLER-3's house. "Carlos" briefed her to obtain an introduction
    to "Edgardo", to find out where AMCUTLER-2's coffee shops were located,
    and to find out whether AMCUTLER-1 was a close friend of Eloy AGUTIERREZ
    Menoyo.

65. ANCUTLER-2 told AMFAUNA-14 to tell the DSE that AMCUTLER-I was
    not a close friend of GUTIERREZ Menoyo. She said to add that she was
    very angry with AMCUTLER-1 and thinking of divorcing him..

66. AMPAUNA-14 and AMCUTLER-2 devised the following cover stories
    for the protection of the source of the airline passenger manifests
    (AMFAUNA-18, whom AMFAUNA-14 does not know) and of "Edgardo" (AMFAUNA-
    27, whom ANFAUNA-14 does not know):

(a) Before leaving Cuba, AMFAUNA-1 had asked AMCUTLER-3 to
look out for his mother, and to pass on to AMFAUNA-14 anything that
might come addressed to "Betty." One day, a colored woman called at
ABCUTLER-3's coffee shop on Calle San Rafael with a package addressed
to "Betty". The coffee shop employees had thought that the package was
intended for an employee whose name is "Ketti" and had given it to her,
but she said it was not hers, and there matters rested until one day
when ANCUTLER-2 visited the coffee shop and was told about the incident.
She told her employees that she knew who the package was intended for,
* it away with her.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

(b) AMCUTLER-2 had received a letter from AMFAUNA-1 dated 18 October saying that she would receive a visit from a person known to her who would introduce himself as "Edgardo", and asking her to introduce "Edgardo" to AMFAUNA-14. This person has not yet arrived, and AMCUTLER-2 does not know who he is.

67. AMCUTLER-2 agreed to stick to these stories in case she is interrogated, and to brief "Ketti" to support the coffee shop story. She also told AMFAUNA-14 she had decided to go into hiding immediately. AMFAUNA-14 asked her not to do it so soon after her visit, but AMCUTLER-2 said that AMFAUNA-14 should provide her with cover by telling the DSE that AMCUTLER-2 had spoken of taking a holiday at Varadero.

68. Making her report to "Carlos" after this meeting, AMFAUNA-14 told these cover stories as though they had just been revealed to her by ANCUTLER-2.

69. A fourth letter arrived from AMFAUNA-1, consisting of two pages of overt text. AMFAUNA-14 was sure that it contained SW because of the banalities in the cover letter. Before turning it over to "Carlos" she took it to AMCOG-3 who had somebody make a literal copy of it and then destroyed the original. AMFAUNA-14 turned the copy over to "Carlos" who had her develop it, and was again disappointed and angry when no SW showed up. (Station comment: this letter had contained SW number groups for OWVL reception.)

70. On or about 10 November 1963, AMFAUNA-14 prepared a written report for the DSE on the visitors to the AMCOG household. This report was actually dictated by AMCOG-3 to AMFAUNA-14 who took it down on the typewriter. She then made a handwritten copy of the report to turn in to the DSE, keeping the typewritten copy for self-briefing. She brought the typewritten copy out with her. Following is a literal translation:

a. (ur.) ernesto MARTI and his wife Lolita: I do not know them very well. All I can say about them is what I have heard, that they are old friends of the family, and that the doctor took a trip to Mexico with AMCOG-3's uncle after the latter's election

b. Sr. Pedro CARRILLO and his wife Margot: He is a brother of Justo CARRILLO and has been a friend of the family for a long time. They sympathize with the Revolution in some aspects, but their daughter (who I think is engaged to the son of AMCOG-2) left Cuba for exile, and this caused them to change. I do not know why their daughter had to take asylum.

c. Dr. Oscar PINA and his wife Margarita: Within the family she has the nickname "Petite." (He is a judge. Until very recently he was neutral, but now it seems that they have loaded him with work and he is in a very bad mood because I believe he has the work of eight cases. She does not sympathize much with the Revolution. They have no children, but almost all of her family is abroad which I think is her principal reason for being discontented.

d. Sra. Nenita de CARAMES: She is the wife of Inu CARAMES, the former Chief of Police of Havana, She has a daughter by him whom she brings to lunch every Sunday, and she is also caring for a son of CARAMES who is insane and in an asylum. I do not believe that at the moment she is on good terms with her husband who is abroad, and therefore she is neither against nor in favor. Actually I believe she is afraid that the situation will change and her husband will return.

e. Sr. Fernando STEFFANI: An elderly gentleman who is the father of an intimate friend of AMCOG-2, who out of pity has given him a standing invitation for every Sunday. To be sure, the poor fellow is rather tiresome.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

f. Elsa DIAZ Biart: Her family has been friendly with the AMCOG family for many years. They were school friends. She has a sister abroad and a brother who is in prison. Her father and mother seldom come to the house. A sister of herz is a doctor of some farm. All she does is obtain medicines for the prisoners, thereby causing a lot of trouble for AMCOG-2, AMCOG-3 and the old man.

g. Joaquin SANCHEZ and his wife Sara: According to what I have heard, he is a travelling salesman for some laboratory. His wife is the sister of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and AMCCG-3 (sic). I have also heard that she is always trying to get medicine for her son who, from what I have heard, is abnormal.

h. Dr. Maria Dolores BANCHEZ Pessino: She lost both her father and mother when she was thirteen years old, and the AMCOG family took her in as an adopted daughter. The old man paid for her education. She is like a daughter to him, and like a sister to the nephew and niece. She works in the emergency hospital. She is not openly opposed to the regime, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives has greatly affected her.

i. (Dr) Vicente LAGO and his wife Maria Julia: His brother Roberto LAGO, who died some years ago, was Pola's first husband. They have two sons abroad. From what I have heard, he devotes himself ex-clusively to his profession, and it is she who is most upset by the separation from her children.

j. Mercedes VALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of STEPΓΑΝΙ, except that she is a woman who is a very good friend of the ANCOG-2's husband, and is in the same situation with her relatives abroad. She is just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth and friendship, with no friends left in Cuba.

k. Julio/BRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all his family is abroad. He is another case of warmth and friendship, he uses the swimming pool a lot, he is alone, I have even seen him cutting trees with AMCOG-3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons he playe chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as is natural - he misses his daughters and his wife.

l. Raquel CASAGRAN: The widow of the Director of Culture in the Grau Government, Jesus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was military aide to both Grau and Prio. She is very highly regarded by the family. I have never heard her express herself in any way against the Government; I would call her neutral.

m. Olga/CRECENTE: Former wife of Jose Maria de la Aguilera she comes to the house with her two daughters and hermother who is a cousin of Sra. Paulina. AMCOG-2 helped her a lot in hiding her husband during the Batista tyranny. I have also heard that AMCOG-3 helped her with her divorce. Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution, although I believe that it is out of spite against her husband. Her mother's name is Leopoldina SANCHEZ Vda. de Crecente, and her nickname is Honga.

n. Hilda FEO: Cousinof ArmandofREO who is a close friend of Frank PAEZ and of JoseGUERO the husband of Polita. She is another case of family warmth, because after all her family had left she came to the house in search of friendship. She has wanted to leave Cuba many times, but was never able to. This is her principal obsession and that of her mother as well. She has been coming to the house a lot for the past three years, and has become a very good friend of the family, though in reality it was her cousin who was a better friend


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

g. Joaquin SANCHEZ and his wife Sara: <According to what I have heard, he is a travelling salesman for some laboratory.> His wife is the sister of the wife of the old man's two nephews, Pancho and AMCOG-3 (sic). I have also heard that she is always trying to get medicine for her son who, from what I have heard, is abnormal.

h. Dr. Maria Dolores SANCHEZ Pensino: She lost both her father and mother when she was thirteen years old, and the AMCOG family took her in as an adopted daughter. The old man paid for her education. She is like a daughter to him, and like a sister to the nephew and niece. She works in the emergency hospital, She is not openly opposed to the regime, but nevertheless the separation from her brother and her relatives has greatly affected her.

i. (Dr. Vicente LAGO and his wife Maria Julia: His brother Roberto LAGO, who died some years ago, was Pola's first husband. They have two sons abroad. From what I have heard, he devotes himself exclusively to his profession, and it is she who is most upset by the separation from her children.

j. Mercedes VALDES Chacon: A case very similar to that of STEPFANI, except that she is a woman who is a very good friend of the AMCOG-2's husband, and is in the same situation with her relatives abroad. She is just one more of the many refugees in search of warmth and friendship, with no friends left in Cuba.

k. Julio BRAVO: A long-time friend of Pancho, all his family is abroad. He is another case of warmth and friendship, he uses the swimming pool a lot, he is alone, I have even seen him cutting trees with AMCOG-3, a typical case of an unhappy man, in the afternoons he plays chess with the old man, and I have never heard him say anything bad about anybody, not even about the situation, the only thing - as is natural - he misses his daughters and his wife.

l. Raquel CASAGRAN: The widow of the Director of Culture in the Grau Government, Jesus CASAGRAN, and sister of Raul LAZARO who was military aide to both Grau and Prio. She is very highly regarded by the family. I have never heard her express herself in any way against the Government; I would call her neutral.

m. Olga/CRECENTE: Former wife of Jose Maria de la Aguilera, she comes to the house with her two daughters and her mother who is a cousin of Sra. Paulina. AMCOG-2 helped her a lot in hiding her husband during the Batista tyranny. I have also heard that AMCOG-3 helped her with her divorce. Apparently she does not sympathize with the Revolution, although I believe that it is out of spite against her husband. Her mother's name is Leopoldina SANCHEZ Vda. de Crecente, and her nickname KA ishonga.

n. Hilda FEO: Cousin of Armando FEO who is a close friend of Frank PAEZ and of Jose AGUERO the husband of Polita. She is another case of family warmth, because after all her family had left she came to the house in search of friendship. She has wanted to leave Cuba many times, but was never able to. This is her principal obsession and that of her mother as well. She has been coming to the house a lot for the past three years, and has become a very good friend of the family, although in reality it was her cousin who was a better friend of the house.

o. Rosendo SACIO and Sra. Leopoldina NUNEZ: This couple has two children who are really hers from her first marriage, Manolito and Lourdes. He has a cleaning shop in Havana, and I know that she has known Pola well for many years because she was her guitar teacher.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

UFGA-12894

before she married J. AGUERO. Politically speaking, she follows the Grau line. She is more or less neutral, and devotes herself to her teaching work. He devotes himself exclusively to his work..

p. Manuel *COMPANIONI and his wife Alicia: They have been acquaintances of ANCOG-2 and AMCOG-3 for many years, although it was not a close friendship, rather a friendship of Montmartre, Tropicana, etc. A daughter of theirs is abroad. He too was a very good friend of Armando FEO who used to be a friend of the family, and now in the course of time they have become closer friends of the family. In other words it is another case of friendship caused by being abandoned by others. He has a small deodorant factory in the same house where they live. They both have their mothers here.

q. Jack/*CONNILL and his wife Marina: His mother has been a very good friend of the family for many years, and she was a school friend of the two nieces of the old man. This couple have always been friends of the family, the more so now that so many of their friends have left Cuba.

71. AMFAUNA-14 turned this report over to "Carlos" on 11 or 12 November. At this meeting he asked her to try to make contact with AMFAUNA-3's brother who he said had been transferred to a hospital in Las Villas. AMFAUNA-14 said she would try, but thought it would be difficult. This was the last time she saw "Carlos." He telephoned her again on 16 November to ask what was new, and this was their last telephone contact.

72. When AMFAUNA-14 arrived at AMCOG-3's house at about 2000 hours on 15 November 1963 for the regular Friday night supper, he took her aside and said he wanted to speak to her privately later. At about 2330 hours she went to his room. There he told her that he had received orders that she was to leave Cuba the following week. He said that precise instructions were to come on 16 and 17 November, so he made a lunch date with her for Sunday noon at his house.

73. AMFAUNA-14 was frightened by this. She did not sleep well Friday or Saturday nights, and spent Saturday in her home.

74. Sunday afternoon in AMCOG-3's house, AMCOG-3 told her that she was to leave the following day. She said that she did not want to. AMCOG-3 responded that this was an order. He said that the DSE would probably arrest her again soon, and for her own safety and that of others she must leave. He added that there were others who were to leave too, whose departure had been made conditional upon her own.

75. AMFAUNA-14 asked whether AMCUTLER-2 were one of these other people who were to leave too, and AMCOG-3 replied that she was. AMFAUNA-14 told him that she thought AMCUTLER-2 would not agree to leave. AMCOG-3 said that he thought she would because the orders had been couched in very strong terms.

76. He then showed her the instructions, both for herself and for AMCUTLER-2. He had her type her instructions on a piece of paper, and then memorize them.

77. Then AMCOG-3 gave AMFAUNA-14 the following verbal messages to deliver when she reached JMWAVE:

(a) A colonel fnu LANDEIRA, a tank expert who had been in the Cuban Army under GRAU and PRIO, is a prisoner on a farm in Havana Province. He is given three days off per week to go home. His wife knows in advance when he will be coming out. AMCOG-3 does not know the wife, but has indirect contact to her. AMCOG-3 says the man is honest and intelligent and a real soldier, and if we want him out AMCOG-3 can arrange it.

(b) As of about 1800 hours on 17 November, a young man who had infiltrated into Cuba and had been hiding at the home of Israel PADILLA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# 14-00000
DISPATCH SECRE UFGA-12894

had been moved to a new hiding place. AMCOG-3 was considering trying
to help the young man into asylum in the Uruguayan Embassy through a
certain "Popin' whose identity is not known to AMFAUNA-14 but who she
thinks is an Uruguayan attache.

(c) AMCOG-3 is out of one-time pads and needs a resupply.

(d) It is very possible that AMCUG-3 may be able to obtain
and forward a copy of AMFAUNA-14 DSE dossier.

78. On Monday morning, 18 November, AMFAUNA-14 dressed as she had
    been instructed, and stuffed a pair of slacks and sneakers into the
    straw handbag which she had been told to carry. At 1300 hours she left
    her office and proceeded on foot to the corner of Atares and Arango in
    Reparto Luyano, arriving there at 1400 hours. Here she exceeded her
    instructions, waiting for AMCUTLER-2 not five minutes but fifteen. She
    then walked very slowly toward Calzada Luyano, hoping that AMCUTLER-2
    might overtake her. This consumed another ten minutes, and by the time
    she reached the Calzada Luyano it was too late for her to walk the re-
    mainder of the distance, so she took a taxi.

79. AMFAUNA-14 discharged the taxi one block before theParque de
    la Virgen del Camino and walked the rest of the way. She went to the
    shrine where she prayed for a few minutes, and then sat on a bench
    from which she could see the whole park.

80. At 1510 hours a 1954 Buick taxi arrived at the park. The
    driver stayed in the car, and two men a colored man and a fair-haired
    man - got out and walked around for about ten minutes. Finally they
    approached her and gave the challenge, to which she gave the correct
    response. One of the men then said simply "Follow me". They took her
    back to the taxi and put her in the back seat with one of the men, the
    other two riding in front.

81. They headed out of the city. When the reached the Carretera
    de Varadero, one of the men asked her politely if she would mind keeping
    her eyes directed down toward the floor and not look out the window.
    She rode this way for about two hours. By then it was dark, and she was
    told she could look up again. She took advantage of the opportunity to
    change into her slacks and sneakers.

82. Finally the car stopped, and she and her two escorts got out.
    They walked a long time. At one point, whistle signals were exchanged
    with someone in the darkness, and two other men appeared, one of whom
    was AMKE-2. AMFAUNA-14 and AMWEE 2 greeted each other politely, but
    pretended mot to know each other.

83. They did a lot more walking and joined up with another man, who
    turned out to be the radio man. He had a lot of equipment with him,
    and AMFAUNA-14 and AMWER 2 helped to carry it.

84. They now reached the mangrove and began to walk through water.
    At one point their guide became briefly lost, but found his way again
    almost immediately. When they came to the open water, one of the guides
    went forward and signalled. The boat came in in response to the signal.
    AMPAUNA-14AMWEE-2, and the radio man walked out into knee-deep water
    and climbed into the boat, which already had a crew of two.

85. The boat proceeded out to an unidentified key. The crew con-
    cealed it in the mangrove, cleverly lacing and tying branches together
    over it to form a camouflage cover. There they went to sleep.

86. The following day, 19 November, was spent at this spot. A
    radio message was received during the day. At night the boat put out
    for Cayo Megano. The waves were enormous, and AMFAUNA-14 was terribly
    seasick. The boat remained at the rendezvous point until 1045 hours,
    with AMPAUNA-14 pleading for the crew to return to land, saying she
    would rather be shot than remain so seasick. Finally the crew did put
    back, saying that the ship probably would not come because the sea was


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET UFGA-12894

87. Wednesday, 20 November, was spent on the same key. A very long radio message was received during the day. AMFAUNA-14 and ANWEE-2 both helped the radio man to decipher it, and their combined efforts took about three hours. Then they put out again for the Cayo Megano rendezvous point. By this time their drinking water was all gone. The boat was overloaded, so much of the food and equipment was left behind on the key. Again no ship appeared. This time, instead of returning to their original hiding place, the crew took the boat to Cayo Mosquito.

88. Here they spent the remainder of the night, and all of Thursday 21 November. Their water was gone, there was very little food left, and there was only enough gasoline left for one more one-way trip out to the rendezvous point. At 1400 hours on 21 November another radio message was received With the combined efforts of the radio man, AMFAUNA-14 and AMWEE)-2, it took between two and three hours to decipher it. Everybody was very optimistic; they were all sure that they would be picked up that night.

89. Promptly at 2300 hours the ship was seen approaching. The boat put out immediately, and its passengers were taken aboard the ship AMFAUNA-14 was taken into the sick bay where she was given a pill, a little water, and somewhat later some warm broth.

90. From the moment she stepped into the boat on 18 November, until she was hauled out by the armpits on 21 November, AMFAUNA-14 never left the boat. Her side and legs were bruised from the pounding of the waves against the boat. A little blood vessel in her right eye was broken by a twig snapping in her face as she walked through the mangrove. This was treated by the ship's doctor.

91. AMFAUNA-14 says that the AMHICK team performed very well. The pickup in the park was done excellently. The slight delay while they looked her over, she says, was due to the fact that the men had expected another woman to be with her, and they were waiting a few minutes in case the other woman should show up. The AMHICK team said that they had also been briefed that she would be wearing her hair in a bun. She had not been briefed accordingly, and she was wearing her hair down her back in a pony tail. This discrepancy did not cause any confusion, because every other item of the visual recognition signals tallied perfectly, and the AMHICK team were well briefed on all of them.

92. AMFAUNA-14 was impressed by the precise timing of the team's movements, by the fact that everybody was where he was supposed to be at the time indicated. She expressed admiration for their seamanship, and their ability to pick out one spot of mangrove from another in the pitch darkness.

93. She says that, during these trying days, the team members were always in calm control of the situation, and never failing in their courtesy to her.

94. Regarding AMCUTLER-2, AMFAUNA-14 is sure that the exfiltration instructions reached her. They were taken, she said, by Lolita FORMOSO who had been standing by for them from Friday to Sunday. What Lolita did with them, AMFAUNA-14 does not know. She knows that we had suggested that Lolita take them to AMFAUNA-1's mother, but she also knows that we had indicated to AMCOG-3 that AMFAUNA-1's mother might be under surveillance, so she thinks Lolita might have taken them directly to AMCUTLER-2. In any case, she knows that messages sent proviously by AMCOG-3 to AMCUTLER-2 reached the latter, and she sees no reason to assume that these instructions did not.

95. It does not surprise AMFAUNA-14 that AMCUTLER-2 did not follow the orders. ANCUTLER-2, she says, plays her own game with little consideration for others. Between the time that AMFAUNA-1 left Cuba on 11 Beptember, and the time that AMFAUNA-14 was arrested on 7 October, AMCUTLER-2 had visited AMFAUNA-14's apartment twice. On both occasions,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH                                                                         UFGA-12894

AMFAUNA-14 had asked her to remove the suitcase that AMFAUNA-1 had left behind, but on both occasions AMCUTLER-2 had found some excuse not to do so. When AMFAUNA-14 visited AMCUTLER-2 in her home in Guanabacoa on 3 November for the purpose of coordinating their cover stories, AMCUTLER-2 did not seem very interested in coordinating stories or anything else. AMFAUNA-14 believes that AMCUTLER-2 may be working for the Second Front of the Escambray, because her very close friend Lolin *CORREOSO* is the fiancee of Hipolito LARRAURI, who was a collector for this organization. Among other reasons possibly keeping AMCUTLER-2 in Cuba, AMFAUNA-14 says that AMCUTLER-2's mother is sick with cancer, and there may be something wrong between AMCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER-2.

96. AMFAUNA-14 also had her reasons for not wanting to leave Cuba. Besides the dangers of the trip, she would be leaving her mother and father in a dangerous position, because the DSE had forced her to sign a confession implicating them. While she appears to be trying not to be overly critical of AMCUTLER-2, she has commented that AMCUTLER-2 knows far more members of the AMFAUNA net than she herself does, so that the reasons requiring the exfiltration of AMFAUNA-14 should be even more compelling for AMCUTLER-2.

End of Dispatch


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)