# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABCE SECRETARIAT DIS
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

SSIFI MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX:
YES
NO

BY:
AT:

DISSEM BY:
PER
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
ACTION
RID COPY
INFO:
FILE, VR,

860
0/FS/C0485 c/SOD 3 EFFIL

I S E C R E T 261218Z MAY 69 CITE (BANGKOK) 3055
SAIGON INFO: DIRECTOR, (VIENTIANE), (SINGAPORE), (MANILA), (RANGOON)
(HONG KONG), (TAIPEI), (DJAKARTA), (TOKYO), (SEOUL), (KUALA LUMPUR)
REF: DIRECTOR 88114 (SENT (BANGKOK) ONLY)

1. WE HAVE BEEN PLAGUED FOR SOME WEEKS NOW

BY MR. MITCHELL L. WERBELL III, VICE PRESIDENT AND
DIRECTOR OF R AND D OF SIONICS, ATLANTA, GEORGIA.

WERBELL DESCRIBES HIMSELF AS A COUNTERINSURGENCY
EXPERT, HAS A VARIETY OF WEAPONS TO DISPLAY, CLAIMS
TO BE A RETIRED COLONEL, AND LAST WEEK INTRODUCED
HIMSELF AT A LOCAL NIGHTCLUB AS CHIEF OF WOFIRM IN
THAILAND.

2. WERBELL HAS A HISTORY OF SHOWING UP IN
   TROUBLE SPOTS WHERE HE CAN MAKE A FAST BUCK. HE
   IMPLIES THAT HE IS U.S. GOVT CONNECTED AND PRESENTS
   A DEMONSTRATION OF A VARIETY OF EXOTIC
   WEAPONS THAT NEVER FAILS TO IMPRESS. REF
   DESCRIBES HIM AS AN UNSCRUPULOUS OPPORTUNIST WITH
   A REPUTATION FOR LIVING BEYOND HIS MEANS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

PAGE 2 BANGKOK 3055 SECRET

3. WERBELL IS AN AMERICAN CITIZEN, BORN 1919, SERVED IN OSS, HAS SHAVEN HEAD AND HANDLEBAR MUSTACHE. REF ADVISES THAT FULL DETAILS OF HIS BACKGROUND SHOULD NOT BE PASSED TO (LIAISON) SINCE HE IS U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, STATES THAT (LIAISON) CAN BE INFORMED, SHOULD HE APPEAR IN YOUR AREA, THAT HE HAS AN UNSAVORY REPUTATION, HAS NO U.S. GOVT CONNECTIONS, AND ANY DEALINGS WITH HIM SHOULD BE APPROACHED WITH EXTREME CAUTION.

4. FOR SAIGON: WE UNDERSTAND THAT WERBELL RECENTLY VISITED SAIGON AND DID HIS THING WITH GEN. ABRAMS, WHO WAS SUITABLY IMPRESSED, AND WERBELL IS NOW SETTING UP A SNIPER TRAINING PROGRAM.

5. FILE: 201-259910


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)