# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF X

DATE-TIME GROUP
262307Z

CTS DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
516053
CONF: c/w/s INFO: FSC/IP/AN, c/CPS/TGS, c/OPS

INDEX 0
DISSEM BY: 357
0 INDEX
RETURN TO PER

16-A ADD: c/DCD, EUR, CR, Lil, Chiono

TO: BUENOS AIRES

FILES 0

RYBAT MHSPIKE *CABLE SEC SUGGESTS
DISSEM TO c/DCD
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 511359*
B. DIRECTOR 507298**

1. FYI ONLY. IT HAS JUST COME TO OUR ATTENTION THAT DOMESTIC
   CONTACT DIVISION (DCD) IN JANUARY 1974 INTERVIEWED STEPHEN VAN CLEAVE,
   PRESIDENT OF INTELLIGENCE SERVICES, LTD A PRIVATE FIRM, ON HIS
   PREVIOUS TRIPS TO ARGENTINA. THE MEETING RESULTED FROM VAN CLEAVE'S
   REPEATED REQUESTS TO MEET WITH DCD REPRESENTATIVES. VAN CLEAVE'S
   INTERVIEW DESCRIBED MAINLY HIS ACTIVITIES IN ARGENTINA TO ORGANIZE A
   SECURITY FORCE FOR COCA COLA. POUCHING STATION COPY OF REPORT.

2. DCD HAS BEEN BRIEFED ON POTENTIAL PROBLEMS FOR BUENOS AIRES
   STATION INHERENT IN VAN CLEAVE AND COUNCIL FOR THE AMERICAS INVOLVE-
   MENT WITH ARGENTINE FEDERAL POLICE ON MATTERS RELATED TO TERRORIST
   KIDNAPPINGS, AND IS ADVISING THEIR FIELD OFFICES TO AVOID CONTACT,
   WITH VAN CLEAVE IN FUTURE.

3. FILE: 4-4-36: 200-6-484/3. E2 IMPDET.

DATE:

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

![authetication number]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTERUSE CALY

ACE COI ACP TOO TPE WAO

0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE-TIME GROUP CITE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CONF: INFO: FILE 518053

0 INDEX DISSEM BY:

0 NO INDEX

0 RETURN TO PER

0 UP FILES #

UH COMMENT: * REPORTED TRIP TO WASHINGTON, D.C. AND MIAMI BY VAN D
CLEAVE AND TWO ARGENTINE POLICE OFFICERS.

**ADVISED THERE NO HAS TRACES ON VAN-CLEAVE WHO HAD
STATED THAT HE WORKED FOR C.I.A. IN LATIN AMERICA
UNDER COCACOLA COMPANY COVERS, AND THAT HAS HAD NO
INTENTION ANY USE OF VAN CLEAVE.

DCD/OSS: LILLIAN I. GRANT (TELECOORD)

DC/OPS/ITG: BILL CANTRELL (IN DRAFTS)

DATE: 26 FEBRUARY 74/1525. HRS.

ORIG: DAVID H. DEUHURST/KN

UNIT: CH/4/AR 03 B.

EXT: 1926

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)