# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 96-3377691 PAGE: 1

SENSIND: RYBAT

SECRET

FRP: , , , , , ,

STAFF

ACTION: C/OCC (171) INFO: EUR/LGL, EUR/SA, MDSX, OCC/OSG, ODPD, RYBAT, FILE, DC/EURN, C/PCS (3/W)

96 3377691 ASR PAGE 001 IN 3377691

TOR: 041414Z MAR 96 VIEN 33696

SECRET 041408Z MAR 96 STAFF

CITE VIENNA 33696 (EVESON ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT CHIEF/OCC INFO OCC/OSG, CHIEF/PCS, C/EUR/SA, EUR/LGL, OGC/OSD, OGC/OFLD, DC/EURN

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT IVTROVE

*SUBJECT: FURTHER RESPONSE FOR<JFK>RECORDS COLLECTION ACT

REF: A. VIENNA 28456

B. DIRECTOR 493642

C. DIRECTOR 493658

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE, FYI.

2. WITH THE RECENT PUBLIC REVELATION CONCERNING WEAPONS CACHES IN AUSTRIA, REF CIDEN CONTACTED STATION AND REQUESTED THAT THE FOLLOWING BE FORWARDED TO HQS IN FURTHERANCE OF HIS REQUEST THAT HIS *NAME NOT BE PUBLICLY RELEASED IN CONNECTION WITH THE<JFK> *<ASSASSINATION. C/O NOBLEHORSE VISITED IDEN'S RESIDENCE ON THE MORNING OF 27 FEBRUARY 96 TO COLLECT A HANDWRITTEN NOTE (BEING POUCHED TO HQS VIA TM 902-980) THE CONTENTS OF WHICH ARE AS FOLLOWS:

FEB 27, 1996

TO BERT MILLS

*SUBJ: (IDEN) AND THE KENNEDY>FILES

ANOTHER REASON FOR NOT DISCLOSING MY NAME HAS ARISEN. IN THE SECOND HALF OF THE 1950'S, I WAS FOR SEVERAL YEARS THE CASE OFFICER FOR OUR OPERATION INVOLVING FRANZ ((OLAH)), CHIEF OF THE LABOR UNION IN AUSTRIA. AFTER HE AND THE WOODWORKERS' UNION HAD GONE INTO THE STREETS IN 1950, ARMED WITH CLUBS, AND BEATEN BACK A RUSSIAN-LED COMMUNIST WORKERS PUTSCH TO OVERTHROW THE AUSTRIAN GOVERNMENT, THE VIENNA STATION TOOK UP CONTACT WITH OLAH, A FEARLESS ANTI-NAZI AND ANTI-COMMUNIST, AND GOT HIM TO ORGANIZE PARAMILITARY GROUPS TO HARASS THE SOVIET ARMY IF IT SHOULD ATTACK THE WESTERN (BRITISH, FRENCH, AND USA) OCCUPATION ZONES IN AUSTRIA. HIS MEN WERE TRAINED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 96-3377691

PAGE: 2

SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT

BY US IN OUR ZONE OF AUSTRIA AND THE NEW ORGANIZATION WAS GIVEN RADIOS SO THEY COULD KEEP IN TOUCH WITH US AND EACH OTHER.

OUR PARAMILITARY PEOPLE PUT CACHES OF WEAPONS, AMMUNITION, FOOD, AND UNIFORMS INTO THE GROUND IN OVER 70 PLACES IN THE U.S. ZONE AND ELSEWHERE. OLAH'S GROUP WAS TO BE GIVEN THE LOCATION OF THE CACHES WHEN THE RED ARMY MOVED.

RECENTLY THE US GOVERNMENT REVEALED TO THE AUSTRIAN GOVERNMENT THE EXISTENCE OF THESE CACHES AND THE EMBASSY GAVE AUSTRIAN OFFICIALS THE LOCATIONS OF THESE CACHES. AUSTRIAN PRESS, RADIO, AND TV COVERAGE OF ALL THIS HAS BEEN GENERALLY FAVORABLE AND EVEN GRATEFUL. OLAH'S INVOLVEMENT IS KNOWN FROM HIS MEMOIRS AND FROM STATEMENTS HE MADE DURING HIS TRIAL IN THE 1960'S (HE WAS TRIED, CONVICTED, AND SERVED ONE YEAR FOR USING A LABOR UNION SAVINGS ACCOUNT AS SECURITY FOR A LOAN TO BUY THE KRONEN ZEITUNG, A TABLOID WHICH NOW HAS THE LARGEST CIRCULATION IN AUSTRIA. THE TWO ΜΕΝ, ((DICHAND)) AND ((FALK)), HE CHOSE TO RUN THE PAPER, THEN TOOK IT OVER AS THEIR PERSONAL PROPERTY, BECOMING ALMOST THE RICHEST MEN IN AUSTRIA. DICHAND LATER SOLD OUT TO FALK AND FOUNDED ANOTHER TABLOID.

IN ALL OUR CLANDESTINE MEETINGS WITH OLAH, HE WAS ACCOMPANIED BY HIS TWO "SECRETARIES," JOSEF ((LAS)) AND HEINRICH ((DAURER)). LAS WENT TO JAIL FOR THE SAME OFFENSE AS OLAH AND DAURER MAY HAVE, TOO.

AT NO TIME WERE OUR NAMES (I WAS SUCCEEDED AS CASE OFFICER BY PAUL VON MARX, THEN UNDER STATE COVER IN VIENNA AND NOW RETIRED IN BERN, SWITZERLAND). I DON'T THINK OLAH KNEW OUR TRUE NAMES, BUT HE KNEW I WAS IN THE EMBASSY.

FROM A TV SHOW THE NIGHT OF FEBRUARY 26, 1996, I LEARNED THERE ARE AT LEAST TWO EAGER YOUNG AUSTRIAN HISTORIANS WORKING TO LEARN ALL THE FACTS ABOUT THIS CASE. ONE HAD SHEAVES OF TOP SECRET DOCUMENTS FROM THE STATE AND DEFENSE DEPTS. BEARING ON U.S. SCHEMES TO RE-ARM AUSTRIA.

IF MY NAME IS REVEALED, IT WILL BE RECOGNIZED BY SEVERAL AUSTRIAN OFFICERS I HAVE KNOWN FOR YEARS. AUSTRIAN TELEVISION CAN SHOW SEVERAL LENGTHY INTERVIEWS WITH ME ON THE 1993 OCCASION OF THE 150TH JUBILEE OF THE VIENNA MEN'S SINGING SOCIETY, WHICH I HAVE BELONGED TO SINCE 1972. OLAH, LAS, AND DAURER CAN ALL RECOGNIZE ME.

(SIGNED
- REF C IDEN)

3. THE MARGINS OF THE LETTER ALSO CONTAIN THE FOLLOWING: (I AM ALSO WELL KNOWN TO MANY PEOPLE IN AUSTRIAN TV.)

4. FILE: 785-120-034.
   CL BY: 618711
   CL REASON: 1.5 (C)
   DECL ON: X1
   DRV FROM: HUM 4-82.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MHFNO: 96-3377691

SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 3

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)