# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

The material contains Information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Explonage Laws, Tit'e If, U.S.C. Secs. 780 and 774, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY CUBA

SUBJECT STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY, EXILE LEADER OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/490,978.

DATE DISTR. 24 OCTOBER 1961

DATE OF INFO OCTOBER 1961

PLACE & DATE ACQ ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES IN 11257

APPRAISAL 3

FIELD REPORT NO. FOEL-30,995

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS, AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRP - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA, INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33 TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION. RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OPPOSED TO CASTRO, THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

SECRET

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 00 EXO FBI
TREASURY REPC INCLANT

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

![Form 1389]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)