2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) WH/4/ExO

|     | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | DATE 5 July 1960 | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| --- | ------------- | --------- | ------------------ | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | C/Prop        |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 2.  | (TOOMEY) 03   |           |                    | SR               |                                                                                                         |
| 3.  | (MANEY) 03    |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 4.  |               |           |                    |                  | FILE Tempo KHRUSHCHEL visit                                                                             |
| 5.  | PROP          |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 6.  | Alice         |           |                    | Anls             | Thumany come ny                                                                                         |
| 7.  | Kay           |           |                    |                  | Nest hip,                                                                                               |
| 8.  |               |           |                    |                  | 47 File Guidance                                                                                        |
| 9.  |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 10. |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 11. |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 12. |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 13. |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 14. |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |
| 15. |               |           |                    |                  |                                                                                                         |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000


5 JUL 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Central Intelligence

VIA: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Operational Exploitation of Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

1.  This memorandum is for the Director's information only and does not require action.

2.  An invitation by the Government of Cuba to Khrushchev to visit that country has been officially accepted, but as yet no definite time has been set. There has been speculation that Khrushchev would arrive in Habana for the 26th of July celebrations, while a press report, confirming a statement of the Soviet Ambassador in Mexico, predicts the arrival for August. Earlier reports had suggested December 1960 or January 1961 as possible dates.

3.  It is felt that a successful visit by Khrushchev to Cuba would assist further in the establishment of a solid Soviet understanding with that country, with disturbing overtones on the possible establishment of closer Soviet relationships in other parts of Latin America. For this reason it is desirable to prevent the visit or to counteract it by a show of massive opposition by the Cuban people.

4.  On 21 June the Habana Station was asked for its views on possible plans. In the exchange of cables that has followed, the Station and Headquarters are now in agreement that the best course of action lies in two operations. First, a massive church manifestation or rally to be called for some other purpose would afford the people of Cuba an obvious way to express their protest. Second, the instigation of rumors that Khrushchev's life will be in danger while in Cuba from a well-planned assassination attempt would be propagated from other Latin American countries.

5.  Because of the need of avoiding action in Cuba in this matter that would imperil Station assets, it has been determined that such assets would be used only as a means of instigating the church to hold the rally.

6.  The latest report from Habana indicates that plans are going satisfactorily. (Bishop Boza Masvidal) is described as enthused about the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

Idea. ith *Rose Lavastida* a prominent lay leader, he is now visiting Camaguey to solicit the support of the local Bishop. *Lavastida* will seek similar support in Santiago. Tentative plans call for a congress or rally on Assumption Day, 15 July.

1.  The Station has asked that the entire effort begin with Cuba, without initial outside support from Cuban exile groups or the sponsors of the anti-Castro programs on Station WRUL. A cable has been sent to Bogota to have the (CELAM) spark similar rallies throughout Latin America. WH press assets will be called upon to support these and the Cuban assets when plans are firmer.

2.  The (Argentine liaison service) will be asked to send one of its contacts in the field of journalism to Habana to contact officials and to visit the offices of the New China News Agency. He will be instructed to ask Communist staff members there what substance there might be to rumors he has heard that an assassination attempt on Khrushchev will take place. The same technique is being used through three Cubans living in Miami who are in constant contact with Cuba. Speculation on such attempts will be surfaced on the WRUL program and in certain controlled Latin press media.

J. C. King
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

EHHinkle:lrh
5 July 1950

Distribution:

Original and 1 - Addressee

1 - DDCI

1 - DDP

1 - C/WHD

1 - C/WH/4

1 - Originator

1 - WH/4/Chrono


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

![photo of handwritten text that reads "MR.", "LAYS", and "Hinke"]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

13-00000

2 July 1960

TO : C/WH/4

Subject: Khrushchev Visit to Cuba

1. Bäckground. An invitation to visit Cuba has been extended to Khrushchev by the Government of Cuba. The invitation has been accepted, but do definite time has been set. There has been some speculation that Khrushchev would arrive in Havana in time for the celebrations of the 26th of July. The press has reported that he will arrive in August (a date confirmed by a statement of the Soviet Ambassador in Mexico). Other reports say the visit will not take place for several months, probably in December or January. In any event we must plan for the possibility of the July visit.

It has been stated from several sanguine quarters that we should "do the same thing to Khrushchev that the Japs did to Eisenhower". This is a completely unrealistic dream.

It is true that a successful Khrushchev visit to Cuba would be the final stone in the construction of a solid Soviet base in Cuba, with disturbing overtones for the possible construction for more Soviet ideoligical bases in all of Latin America. For that reason we are trying to do what we can to prevent the visit, or at least to show a massive sk opposition to it.

2. ExploitationPlans. On 21 June Hqs sent a cable to Havanza asking for views on possibility of a major effort to force cancellation of the visit. A resulting series of cables shows that the station and headquarters are now in agreement that our best hope lies in

a. A massive Church manifestation or rally, which though called for some other purpose, would be to the people of Cuba an obvious way to express their protest. And

b. from outside Cuba, instigating of rumors that Khrushchev's life will be in danger fe from a well-planned assassination attempt.

3. Mr. Helms has told us that he wants CIA to undertake no action that will imperil Station assets. This injunction was placed on us while we were exchanging cables with Havana. The result is that station assets are actively instigating the church to hold the rally. A cable from Headquarters has instructed the station to continue this course of action as long as there is "safety in numbers", i.e., as long as it is a church action rather that an AMPALM one.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

4. The latest cable from the field (IN 18883) reports that that plans are going satisfactorily. Bishop Boza Masvidalis is "enthused" about the idea. With Jose Lavastida a prominent lay leader, he is now visiting Camaquey to solicit the support of the local Bishop. Jose Lavastida a promient lay leader, is in Santiago to seek the help of the Santiago Bishop. Tentative plans call for a congress or rally on Assumption Day, 15 July.

The station has asked that the entire effort at least begin within Cuba, without ouside support from FRD or WRUL.

5. Hemisphere Plans. A cable has gone out to (CELAM), (in 16-11 Bogota) asking this Church organization to spark similar rallies throughout Latin America. JMRAKE assets will be called upon to support these and the Cuban meeting when plans are firmer.

On the assassination angle: (BIOGENISIS) a controlled agent (in B.A), is soon to visit high officials in Havana. He has been instructed to ask these leaders what substance there might be to the rumors he has heard that an attempt will take place.....Rivas, a friend of Rudy Gomez, is using the same technique through three Cubans living in Miami who are constant contact with Cuba.

Speculation on the assassination attempts will be surfaced on the WRUL program, in AMPACA'S paper, etc.

David A. Phillips


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)