# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-2985818 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

SECRET FRP:

STAFF

CONF: EUR/-BNL INFO.: EUDORECORD, EUR/LGL, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,
PCS/CL, FILE (0/P)

96 2985818 ASP PAGE 001

TOT: 262320Z JAN 96 DIRECTOR 615577

SECRET

STAFF

TO: PRIORITY THE HAGUE. 2623182 DIRECTOR 615577

FROM: LIMIT EUR/BNL INFO EUR/LGL, PCS/CL

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: TRACE RESPONSE ON DUTCH JOURNALIST

REF: THE HAGUE 13519 96 2762623

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE, FOR STATION BACKGROUND ONLY
   RESPONSE TO REF QUESTIONS RE THE SHARING OF INFO WITH LIAISON WILL BE
   PROVIDED IN A SEPARATE MESSAGE

2. HQS BELIEVES SUBJECT TO BE IDENTICAL TO WILLIAM LEONARD
   ((OLTMANS)), (DPOB 10 JUNE 1925, HUIZEN, THE NETHERLANDS), WHO WAS
   ASSIGNED 201-0155221 ON 27 FEBRUARY, 1957, ON THE OCCASION OF A NAME
   CHECK REQUEST AGAINST PNINFINITE FILES FROM NVGIFT/
   OLTMANS WAS OSTENSIBLY A CORRESPONDENT FOR AN OBSCURE DUTCH WEEKLY
   AT THE TIME,
   PUBLICATION AT THE UNITED NATIONS IN NEW YORK. HIS REPUTATION AT THE
   UN WAS SUCH THAT HE WAS OSTRACISED BY THE DUTCH DELEGATION AND FELLOW
   DUTCH NEWSMEN FOR HIS OPENLY PRO-INDONESIAN PUBLIC STAND ON THE DUTCH
   GUINEA QUESTION. HE ALSO CLAIMED TO WORK FOR AN UNKNOWN NEWS
   SYNDICATE IN THE UNITED STATES, BUT NONE OF HIS COLLEAGUES COULD
   CLAIM TO HAVE SEEN ANY OF HIS WRITINGS PUBLISHED. HIS MAIN INCOME
   SEEMED TO HAVE BEEN DERIVED FROM PUBLIC LECTURES IN THE UNITED STATES
   ON INTERNATIONAL POLITICS ESPECIALLY MATTERS TOUCHING ON ASIA IN
   GENERAL, AND INDONESIA SPECIFICALLY. HE CLAIMED HE GREW UP IN
   INDONESIA, AND THEREFORE KNEW THE AREA AND ITS "CONDITIONS" WELL. IN
   ADDITION, HE WAS CONSTANTLY SEEN WITH WHAT A WESTERN SOURCE WOULD
   CALL "THE WRONG CROWD", AND HE HAD EXCELLENT CONTACTS WITH ALL THE
   COMMUNIST DOMINATED COUNTRIES, INCLUDING CUBA AND WAS ON INTIMATE
   TERMS WITH ELEMENTS SUCH AS THE GUINEANS, THE INDONESIANS, AND THE
   EGYPTIANS.

3. ACCORDING TO DIRECTOR 243172, 12 JANUARY 1987, ONE OF THE
   LAST ENTRIES IN OLTMANS' FILE, "OLTMANS HAS BEEN A THORN IN OUR SIDE
   FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS. HE HAS HIGH LEVEL CONTACTS IN THE SOVIET
   UNION. HE IS INDEPENDENTLY WEALTHY BY VIRTUE OF HIS FAMILY HAVING HAD
   A VIRTUAL MONOPOLY ON THE QUININE TRADE AT ONE TIME. HE IS HIGHLY
   INTELLIGENT BUT PECULIAR, AND WHETHER OR NOT HE WAS EVER IN THE PAY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 96-2985818

SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 2

OF THE SOVIETS, HE CERTAINLY HAD BEEN A FERVENT SUPPORTER OF THEIR
CAUSES." THE FOLLOWING ARE HIGHLIGHTS TAKEN FROM SUBJECTS RATHER
LARGE HQS FILE.

4. HE STUDIED BRIEFLY AT YALE UNIVERSITY AND WAS EXPELLED FOR
   MISBEHAVIOR (NFI). FOR A SHORT TIME THEREAFTER, HE WORKED FOR UNITED
   PRESS INTERNATIONAL AND "DE TELEGRAFF", A MAJOR DUTCH DAILY
   NEWSPAPER, BUT WAS FIRED FROM BOTH. IN 1956, HE MARRIED AN AMERICAN
   GROUND STEWARDESS, AND IN ON 10 JUNE 1958, HE WAS ADMITTED TO THE
   UNITED STATES IN NEW YORK CITY AS A PRA, A STATUS WHICH HE HELD UNTIL
   AT LEAST 1987. IN 1960, HE DIVORCED HIS WIFE, AND IN 1961, WAS
   LIVING WITH A PHILIPINO MALE.

5. NUMEROUS FIELD REPORTS INDICATE THAT IN 1956, OLTMANS
   ARRANGED AN INTRODUCTION FOR HIMSELF TO INDONESIAN PRESIDENT
   ((SUKARNO)) WITH WHOM HE THEN TRAVELED THROUGH EURPOPE IN 1956 AS
   SUKARNO'S GUEST. HIS TRIP FROM INDONESIA TO THE U.S. IN FEBRUARY 1957
   WAS PAID FOR BY THE INDONESIAN GOVERNMENT, AND ALL INDICTIONS WERE
   THAT HE WAS BEING USED AS A TOOL BY THE INDONESIAN GOVERNMENT TO
   CARRY ON PROPAGANDA IN THE U.S. AND AT THE UN. DURING THE PERIOD
   1960-1961, HE SHUTTLED BETWEEN EUROPE AND THE UNITED STATES.

6. SUBJECT NEXT APPEARS IN OUR RECORDS IN 1968, WHEN HE
   TELEPHONED THE DIRECTOR OF THE U.S. INFORMATION AGENCY (USIA) IN THE
   HAGUE TO ADVISE THEM THAT HE WAS ANTI-AMERICAN AND TO GIVE THE USIA
   INFORMATION ON ANTI-AMERICAN DUTCH GROUPS IN THE NETHERLANDS.

7. IN 1972, SUBJECT PLANNED TO MAKE A FILM ON ECOLOGY IN THE
   FORMER SOVIET UNION AND VISITED THERE 23-26 JANUARY TO MAKE THE FINAL
   ARRANGEMENTS. AT THIS TIME, THE DUTCH SERVICE CLAIMED THAT OLTMANS
   HAD A FIVE YEAR RETAINER FROM THE RUSSIANS AS AN OVERT PR MAN. THERE
   IS NO INDICATION IN THE FILE THAT THE FILM WAS EVER MADE.

8. IN MARCH AND APRIL 1977, OLTMANS GAINED A GREAT DEAL OF
   PUBLIC ATTENTION IN THE U. S. AND THE NETHERLANDS WHEN HE TESTIFIED
   *BEFORE THE U. S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES<ASSASSINATIONS>COMMITTEE ON
   *THE LATE GEORGE DE ((MOHRENSCHILDT))'S CONNECTION WITH<LEE HARVEY>
   *<((OSWALD))>AND THE MURDER OF PRESIDENT<JOHN>F.<((KENNEDY)).> IT HAD
   LONG BEEN KNOWN THAT DE MOHRENSCHILDT, AS PART OF THE DALLAS
   RUSSIAN-SPEAKING COMMUNITY, WAS CLOSE TO OSWALD. OLTMANS HAD LONG
   BEEN CULTIVATING DE MOHRENSCHILDT AS A NEWS SOURCE AND FRIEND. IN
   JANUARY, 1976, DE MOHRENSCHILDT WROTE OLTMANS THAT HE WAS PREPARING A
   BOOK ON HOW HE (DE MOHRENSCHILDT) WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR OSWALD'S
   *<ASSASSINATION>OF<KENNEDY.>

9. IN MAY 1983, THE DUTCH SERVICE HAD A TELTAP (WHICH THEY
   CONSIDERED HIGHLY SENSITIVE AS IT INVOLVED ONE OF THEIR OWN CITIZENS)
   ON OLTMANS WHO SEEMED TO REVEAL SOME INTERESTING TIDBITS SOME OF
   WHICH MIGHT BE CONSIDERED GOSSIP, BUT WHICH MIGHT BE OF SERIOUS
   INTEREST TO ANALYSTS WATCHING THE INTERPLAY OF HIGH LEVEL SOVIET
   PERSONALITIES, PARTICULARLY WHEN HE TALKED TO HIS LEFTIST DUTCH
   FRIENDS. THE QUESTION OF OLTMANS'PRA STATUS CAUSED HQS TO REQUEST A
   STANDDOWN ON FURTHER ELICITATION OF INFO DERIVED FROM THE DUTCH
   SERVICE TELTAP ON OLTMANS UNTIL A REVIEW OF LEGAL ASPECTS COULD BE
   MADE. IT BECAME HOS UNDERSTANDING THAT THIS TELTAP WAS BEING
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MHFNO: 96-2985818

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE: 3

CONDUCTED BY THE DUTCH SERVICE FOR THEIR OWN PURPOSES AND THAT THEIR
INTERESTS WERE INDEPENDENT OF ANY NWBOLTON INTERESTS. SINCE INFO OF
INTEREST TO NWBOLTON WAS THE BYPRODUCT OF THE TELTAP, AND
NOT INFO CONCERNING OLTMANS HIMSELF, THE HAGUE STATION COULD CONTINUE
TO RECEIVE INFO OFFERED AND TO REQUEST ADDITIONAL AND MORE DETAILED
INFO CONCERNING SOVIET INTENTIONS WITHOUT SPECIFYING THE MANNER IN
WHICH IT WAS TO BE ACQUIRED. THE BASIS FOR THIS DECISION WAS THAT A)
OLTMANS HIMSELF WAS NOT THE SUBJECT OF NWBOLTON INTEREST AND
B) NWBOLTON WAS NOT PARTICIPATING IN THE TELTAP.

10. ON 16 JANUARY 1987, SAN FRANCISCO STATION ADVISED THAT
    SUBJECT HAD BEEN ENGAGED IN BROKERING HIGH-LEVEL CONTACTS BETWEEN A
    LARGE U.S. COMPUTER MANUFACTURING COMPANY AND THE FORMER SOVIET UNION
    IN AN EFFORT TO DEVELOP AND SUPPORT AND ENHANCED RUSSIAN
    MICROCOMPUTER MANUFACTURING CAPABILITY.

11. ON 22 SEPTEMBER 1987, FBIS MONITORED THE ACTIVITY OF
    SUBJECT IN MARTINIQUE WHER HE WAS MEETING WITH SURINAMESE CITIZENS
    AND ACCUSED FRANCE AND THE NETHERLANDS OF FAVORING THE SURINAME
    REBELLION.

12. OLTMANS NEXT APPEARS IN A PRESS RELEASE OF 20 MAY 1992 WHEN
    HE SOUGHT REFUGE AT THE NETHERLANDS EMBASSY IN PRETORIA, SOUTH
    AFRICA, AFTER HE WAS ALLEGEDLY ACCUSED BY SOUTH AFRICA'S SECRET
    SERVICE OF BEING AN AGENT FOR NWBOLTON, SAYING HE HAD GONE TO THE
    EMBASSY FOR "PROTECTION AND ASSISTANCE: I FEEL UNSAFE HAVING BEEN
    BRANDED A CIA AGENT". HE ALSO SAID THAT HIS APARTMENT HAD BEEN
    BROKEN INTO AND BUGGEDAND MANY OF HIS PROJECTS HAD BEEN TORPEDOED
    BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN BRANDED AN NWBOLTON AGENT.

13. CL REASON: 1.5 (C), DECL ON: X-1.

FILE: 201-155221. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>
ORIG: EUR/BNL(RICHSNC,39188); AUTH: DC/EUR/BNL (O'DONOVAN); COORD:
EUR/LGL (FRED); REL: C/EUR/BNL. CL BY 0528417.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)