# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TRAVEL ORDER

NAME

Boris D. Tarasoff (FDD)

VIICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.

OFFICE PHONE

10488

SERVICE TRAVEL ORDER NO.

GRADE

GS-11

YOU ARE AUTHORIZED TO TRAVEL AND INCUR NECESSARY EXPENSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH REGULATIONS. THIS TRAVEL OR CHANGE OF OFFICIAL STATION, IF SO DESIGNATED, IS MADE FOR OFFICIAL PURPOSES AND NOT FOR YOUR PERSONAL CONVENIENCE.

ITINERARY, MODE OF TRAVEL AND PURPOSE

Washington, D.C. to Mexico City and return.

MODE: Air

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only

PURPOSE: TDY Replacement for Station Employee while on home leave. Do Not Reproduce

Area Classified Category A.


TRAVEL DURATION

BEGIN

END

PER DIEM ALLOWANCE

DOMESTIC

FOREIGN

AUTOMOBILE ALLOWANCE

CENTS PER MI. NOT TO EXCEED COST-BY COMMON CARRIER

CENTS PER MI. AS MORE ADVANTAGEOUS TO GOV'T.

15 Aug.'60

$

X MAXIMUM

OTHER (See below)

ALLOWANCES AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS WITH REASONS

90 days TDY

[

Light State Cover

]



DEPENDENT TRAVEL AUTHORIZED

NAME

DATE OF BIRTH

RELATIONSHIP

PROCURE TRANSPORTATION BY

TRANSPORTATION REQUEST

ESTIMATED COST OF TRAVEL

CASH OR OTHER

$1400.00 (02)

DISPOSITION OF EFFECTS

AUTHORIZATION

I CERTIFY FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE

SHIPMENT

NONTEMPORARY STORAGE

OBLIGATION REFERENCE NO.

SHIPMENT POA AUTHORIZED

EXCESS BAGGAGE AUTHORIZED

ACCOMPANIED

UNACCOMPANIED

34

LBS AND MODE

LBS AND MODE

CHARGE COST CENTER NO.

40 Air

1135-5700-3000

ACCOMPANY TRAVELER

ADVANCE OF FUNDS REQUESTED

DATE

SIGNATURE OF B & F OFFICER

FOLLOW WITHIN 6 MONTHS

X
YES

ACCOUNTING DUE DATE

ADVANCE RETURN

NO

Dec. 1960

REQUESTING OFFICIAL

Charles A. Moore

COORDINATION

SIGNATURE

TITLE & COMPONENT

DATE

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

COMPONENT



CCI

7/1/6


SIGNATURE J. C. KING

DATE Chief, RID



AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL

5 July 1960

TYPED NAME AND TITLE

COMPONENT

SIGNATURE RICHARD HELMS

DATE Chief, Ops.

5 July 1960

FORM 540 OBSOLETE

PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(28-48)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)