# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![check box]UNCLASSIFIED ![check box]INTERNAL
USE ONLY ![check box]CONFIDENTIAL ![check box]SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: CI/SO Summary on: Contact Report with (MP)TROIKA-7

FROM:

C/CI/SO Rober

EXTENSION 5847 NO. EX-9816

DATE 1 March-1972

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|     | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)                                                |
| --- | ---- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  |      |                    | CI/SO Internal Use Only This information is not to be disseminated outside CI/SO without prior approval of Chief, Special Operations Group, CI Staff. |
| 2.  |      |                    |                                                                                                                                                       |
| 3.  |      |                    | Originated by: W. E. Gavaghe TYPED by: FE/OPS                                                                                                         |
| 4.  |      |                    | Based on: Doc:                                                                                                                                        |
Date:
Filed:  |
| 5. |   |   | SOURCE: Cryptonym (MP)TROIKA-7 Field Station: ACTION: |
| 6. |   |   |   |
| 7. |   |   |   |
| 8. |   |   |   |
| 9. |   |   |   |
| 10. |   |   |   |
| 11. |   |   |   |
| 12. |   |   |   |
| 13. | 08687 |   |   |
| 14. |   |   |   |

DISTRIBUTION:

![check box] EX NUMERICAL FILE (record

![check box] Subject file (MP)TROIKA-7

![check box] Other:

INDEXING:
KP by date 15/3/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

EX-9816
1 March 1972

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT: Contact Report of Meetings with (MPTROIKA-7 in New York City on 14 February and in Virginia on 17-18 February 1972

1.  This memorandum covers recent meetings with (MPTROIKA-7 in New York City and in the Northern Virginia area. The meetings were held under secure conditions and there were no security incidents noted.

2. Operational:

a. United States - China Friendship Association (USCFA) Study Group: (M) 7's persistent efforts to locate and join a pro-Mao study group finally paid off. The manager of the China Bookstore finally broke down under (M) 7's campaign and put her in touch with a local USCFA study group under the leadership of Mrs. Susan Warren, aka Frank. (M) 7 has attended one session and, based on her initial observation, provided the assessment of Mrs. Warren attached hereto at the undersigned's request. (M) 7 believes she has hit it off with Mrs. Warren because of her understanding of dialectics (thanks to Andy Ness's tutoring) and, consequently, she was instructed to attempt to develop a social-business relationship with her with respect to the other members of the study group, (M) 7 claims that the situation, to date, has not been conducive to ferreting out the identities of these individuals, but that she hopes that as the group continues to meet, some rapport will be established with her classmates.

b. New School and language instruction: (M) 7 has formally enrolled at the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research in a course entitled "Comparative Legal Systems," which studies the theories, institutions, concepts, customs and which purports to analyze and compare the law and the administration of law in selected countries, included China, Japan, Vietnam, Germany, the U.S. and the Soviet Union. (M) 7 will also enroll in a French language instruction course in the near future.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

c. Ramparts' Tours - New York Media Workshop's Womens' Tour: Acting on a suggestion proposed by Mr. Jason Horn, CI/SO, the undersigned raised the subject of the Women's Tour which is scheduled to visit London, Paris (where they will meet the DRV peace delegation) and Rome from 27 May - 25 June 1972 with (M) 7 and instructed her to attempt to determine the interest in, and likely composition of, the New York group and explore the possibility of joining such a group and explore the possibility of joining such a group.02(M)7's first reaction to the tour was that the cost ($699, which price includes airfare, trains, hotels, etc.) was too high. It was explained to her that the cost factor should not deter her from following through. It was then that M7 voiced some concern that the timing of the tour may interfere with her own PCS departure (we had been talking in terms of mid-May or June 1972 up to this point). It was made clear to her that no fixed date has been established as yet for her PCS departure and that the aforementioned tour may well prove to be of operational interest, e.g. meeting the DRV delegation and continuing the staging process prior to her actual departure. 7 said that she understood and would look into the matter. She did not believe she would have any difficulty in covering for funds should she find herself included on the tour.

d. South East Asia Reports (SEAR): (M)-7 produced a copy of the first issue of SEAR, a bi-weekly newsletter put out by the New York University Students Mobilization Committee, Box 59, Loeb Student Center, 566 LaGuardia Place, N.Y.C. 1000302(M7 is listed as one of five contributing 08 staff members on the back page) of this mimeographed new left publication. A copy of this first issue is attached hereto. One of (M)'s articles will appear in a subsequent issue of SEAR.

e. JBMINIMUM Testing and Training: As part of M7's covert training and assessment in anticipation of her foreign assignment, the undersigned arranged for two members of the Psychological Assessment Branch, TSD (Messrs. DeMarco. and Saunders) to administer a JBMINIMUM test to her and to brief her in the use and value of the JBMINIMUM test in a field situation. This training and briefing took place on 18 February in a safehouse in N. Arlington, Va. (A copy of the JBMINIMUM assessment on 7 will be made a matter of record in her official dossier) 7 was introduced as "Miss Julie" to members of the PAB/TSD for purpose of this test and briefing. (Mr. Andy Ness devoted the afternoon of 18 February with (M7 for the purpose of continuing her training


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

in dialectics, which she has found to be particularly useful in understanding the study group discussion and to permit her participation.)

## 2. Administrative:

a. Salary and Operational Advances. The undersigned paid (M)7 her January salary on a $500 advance on 17 February 1972. She also received a $300 advance on 14 February 1972. These advances were necessary because of the expenses (M)7 had incurred in enrolling at the New School and to pay for her French lessons. (One of the reasons (M)7 was brought down to the Washington area was to straighten out a problem she was having with her accounting. Hopefully, she is now convinced that she had been receiving all that was due her.)

b. Tax Administration and Notification of Personnel Action. (M)7 was notified of the change in the tax assessment and of the adjustments in her salary due to the legislative pay increase and the withholding of premiums for hospitalization.

## 3. Actions to be taken.

a. (M)7's assignment abroad. Per the undersigned's discussions with Messrs. Flitcroft and (Cornish) a telepouch dispatch will be sent to (Bangkok) Station proposing (M)7's assignment to (Bangkok) primarily for housekeeping purposes, but with a regional mission to perform. (The undersigned is presently working on this message.)

b. Concelament device. (M)7 requested a concealment device for her microdot viewer which the undersigned will attempt to obtain from TSD. Additionally, the undersigned will request TSD to provide concealment devices for (M)7's general use as a storage for papers and funds.

William E. Gavaghen
FE/OPS

Attachments
As stated


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)