# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

3 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, External Activities Branch
Office of Security

FROM : John H. Stein
Deputy Chief, Soviet/East European Division.

SUBJECT : Manuscript by David Phillips.

1. At the risk of tilting continually at windmills, it is the undersigned's view, and that of innumerable colleagues, that Mr. Phillips' book should not be published. In the first instance, those portions we have read are superficial and give the reader the impression that the profession which Mr. Phillips practiced so well is one of derring-do, frivolity and foolishness. More seriously, the entire book is based on knowledge acquired by Mr. Phillips during his career in the Agency. Whether a given sentence is in the public domain or not, Mr. Phillips should not put his stamp of authenticity on that sentence. If publish Mr. Phillips must, and if the Agency cannot legally stop him, then so be it. Hopefully, while there is still time, someone will push for appropriate legislation to stop this foolishness.

2. While it is perhaps fruitless, we have attempted to identify some of the more damaging items in the text as drafted. These are cited below:

a. Page 15: Discussion of back channel communications used to circumvent the Secretary of State seems to be ill-advised and not designed to enhance Agency relations with State.

b. Page 23: There begins here a discussion of the use of women by the DDO. While I understand Mr. Phillips' desire to indicate that the DDO does in fact hire women and minorities, this section causes some anguish. At the present time, certainly in the Near East, Eastern Europe, and the Soviet Union, the

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 018307


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

use of women provides us an operational flexibility which we would not otherwise have. It is quite evident, furthermore, that the local security services have not focused on the extent to which we do use women. We would like to keep it that way as long as we possibly can, and it is the undersigned's firm belief that statements from Mr. Phillips, obviously authentic, will rather quickly bring the women we do use under increased scrutiny of hostile intelligence services. Further, in opening the Pandora's box of the use of women and minorities in the DDO, Mr. Phillips may be opening both himself and the DDO to unjustified criticism that we are either exploiting women or not hiring enough of them; similarly the minorities.

c. Page 25: I have known personally for 17 years the girl who, although stripped naked by burglars, managed to save her mother and father from harm. There are others elsewhere in the government and probably outside who are knowledgeable about the incident. The girl, now a lovely lady, is about to be dispatched under very sensitive cover abroad. Mr. Phillips would do well to delete reference to her as being an Agency employee.

d. Page 26: I think it is unwise for Mr. Phillips to conjecture on the reason why there are few blacks employed in the DDO. His reasoning may be correct, but I would venture that not everyone who reads his book will believe so, and the Agency may come under unfortunate pressure because of it. The specific black cited on page 27 as having removed a flag from the hands of demonstrators is a personal friend of mine. He is under cover. By citing the incident, Mr. Phillips removes that cover, for the black retrieved the flag as an American citizen, not as a CIA officer. In sum, I would suggest the deletion of the section involving women and minorities because it opens a Pandora's box and because, as written, the cover of two highly effective officers is placed in jeopardy.

e. Page 36: The anecdote on page 36 should at least be modified. The person referred to is the undersigned. I am the only Agency and(State) officer who owns a Chow dog. All my acquaintances abroad


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

3

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

know I own the Chow dog. To avoid damaging further what cover I have left, I would appreciate Mr. Phillips simply citing "dog" or calling it a "poodle."

![signature of John H. Stein]
John H. Stein

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)