2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Manuscript Submitted by David A. Phillips

FROM: C/SS/SC

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. Chief, EAB, Office of Security

DATE

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

Attached are the comments of Acting Chief, SOG, regarding subject manuscript. All three comments fall within caveats 2) and 3) cited in your Routing and Record Sheet.

H.R. Keough

FORM 3-62 610


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Chapter XI

Page 10: Though Camp Perry has received much publicity, there appears no good reason to confirm the use of this facility by the Agency. Unless we plan on officially opening Camp Perry as a CIA training facility, it should not be mentioned. (Check OTR)

Page 15: The "Phoenix Program" originated before William Colby became DEPCORDS, COMUSMACV. Ambassador Komer started the program and asked that Colby replace him as DEPCORDS so that there would be some continuity in the effort to deal with criminal elements of the Viet Cong infrastructure. It is unfair to subjectively state that the "Operation Phoenix" was Colby's *own* albatross. Certainly Colby doesn't believe this though he is receiving considerable flack from those who would like others to believe that the whole program was one of assassination of which Colby, as head of the CIA, was in charge.

Page 39: We're still putting audio devices in coke bottles -- all these techniques and methods should not be discussed since we may very well want to use them again in the future.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)