# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NAME CHECK. DOCUMENT SERVICE, AND PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NO. (Filled in by RID)

FROM: (Requestere name)
I McHale 03
DATE
FEB 20
BRANCH
COM
ROOM
2522 R T
EXTENSION
3661

| TO           | ROOM | DATE         | INITIALS | CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS |
| ------------ | ---- | ------------ | -------- | --------------------- |
| RID/INDEX    |      | 1/17         |          | Pls call              |
| REQUESTER    | I.Q  | 5:14 1/22/74 |          | Wher Alaly            |
| RID/FILES    |      |              |          | g & -attached         |
| REQUESTER    |      |              |          |                       |
| RID/DRS      |      |              |          |                       |
| RID/201      |      |              |          |                       |
| RID/ANALYSIS |      |              |          |                       |
| RID/MIS      |      |              |          |                       |
| RID/INDEX    |      |              |          |                       |

SURNAME

BESTA/

Lamberto

SPELLING VARIATIONS

AKA. ALIASES

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

May 1918

CITIZENSHIP

Itelich

RESIDENCE

23 Via Teodosto, Milen, Itely

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP wenberehip,
I. S. olfaliatione, etc.)

Owns Export-Import firm LABE (or LABEX)

in Milan

RID/INDEX TO REQUESTER

COMMENTS

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

BE SURE ALL SUBJECT INFORMATION IS CORRECT

1.  Type or print all entries.
2.  On receipt of index card reproductions: draw a green diagonal line across items you don't want RID to obtain for you.
3.  Hit (use green) the Copyflo listing to reflect: (a) Cards to be destroyed (green D).
    Examples: referenced document has been destroyed; less informative than a retained card leading to the same information; referenced information not significant. (b) Corrections and additions, including oo when card reflects all facts in document. (c) OK all cards that are correct as typed.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

Could this trace be consolidated into an existing or new 201 file? yes no. (If yes, complete the following - no other form required.)

201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION

201 -
(201 number will be supplied by RID. 11 new 201 number has been obtained by desk, nore at in this space.)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

UBR

| CRYPTONYM ASSIGNED | FILE TO BE KEPT | ACCESS RESTRICTED | RESTRICTION (11 any) |
| ------------------ | --------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- |
| YES  NO            | RID  DESK       | NO  YES           |                      |

ALWAYS RETURN THIS FORM WITH COPYFLO OF CARD REPRODUCTIONS. IF YOU HAVE REQUESTED A 201 PARTIAL CONSOLIDATION, ALSO RETURN PERFERENT DOCUMENTS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

BESTA, FNU
DOB ?.
CIT?

ALLEGED ITALIAN AGENT IN MILAN

043-005-004
OIR -13764
TS 107273
PIO
SER. 7889

Cont locate
in RI


BESTA, Lamberto

43-5-1-4334
CI 4-374
4 Apr 55
Att.

Ordenil trying to lockt in RI. we/4

BESTA, Lamberto

NIZA LOG
(2525)
2. Mar 54

![photo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

BESTA, Lamberto

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Files are attached with pertinent items clipped....

Lamberto BESTA

April 1955: Resident of Milan et Via Teodosio 23, collaborated foo brief period with DEMIGOD Remijud regarding clandestine traffic in strategic materials. Lives by trafficking in cigarettes and other things - not excluding done. Also maintains contact with 29 head of French intelligence in Italy in political field. Person of doubtful honesty, braggart and capable of carrying out any kind of activity for money. (Source Diemjod)

March 1954: Itel service 15-22 (Min of Int) offered to turn over to Milan station full control of PIC operation in which BESTA was involved. Hqs warned "heads off" because of BESTA's extremely bad reputation - he has been implicated in all sorts of contreband traffic as well as reputation of completely momimm unanchored intelligence operator.

Nov 1953: He was an attempted double agent operation by Ital service into Yugo I.S.

Hows Not un fet need State Compulchre Referred to in turn Sst"check

41BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)