# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

Newark, New Jersey
August 10, 1960

SECRET

LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA BONET
ESPIONAGE - CUBA

NK T-1, a Cuban refugee who is in a position to furnish reliable information, advised as follows:

On August 4, 1969, the source was contacted by telephone at his place of employment in Carlstadt, New Jersey, by Lazaro Eddy Espinosa Bonet, Third Secretary to the Cuban Mission to the United Nations (CMUN). Espinosa requested the source to meet him at 11:00 AM, August 5, 1969, on the corner of Bronx Park East and Allerton Avenue, Bronx, New York. The source went to designated meet area on August 5, 1969, arriving at approximately 10:50 AM and remaining until 11:25 AM. No attempt to contact source was made during that interval.

On August 11, 1969, source's wife received a telephone call at the source's home, in Union City, New Jersey, from an individual who did not identify himself. A message was left for source which instructed him to appear at the previously mentioned meet location at 11:00 AM, August 12, 1969.

The source arrived at the meet site at the intersection of Bronx Park East and Allerton Avenue, Bronx, New York, at approximately 10:30 A!!, whereupon he was immediately contacted by Espinosa, who had been waiting in a parked car on Allerton Avenue. Espinosa and source proceeded on foot a short distance toward the interior of Bronx Park and sat down on the grass in a shady area. Espinosa took out from a small handbag which he was carrying a Sony Miniature Tape Recorder which measured approximately 9 inches by 4 inches by 3 inches. The tape recorder was placed between the two on the grass as they talked. The source observed approximately 20 small reels of tape in the bag carried by Espinosa.

(this seems to be a different source than the prior Cura-47 things)

SECRET
GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA BORET

SECRET

During the ensuing conversation which lasted from 10:30 AM until 7:30 PM, the source counted three or four reels of tape utilized by Espinosa and each reel would record for about one hour, or approximately thirty minutes on each side. Espinosa, whose true identity had not been revealed to the source, requested him to call him "Esteban." Referring to a report prepared by source and left at a drop site in Union City, New Jersey, on May 18, 1969, Espinosa stated that the report had been poorly prepared and lacked necessary detail. He directed the source to be more specific and thorough in answering any questions for future reports.

Espinosa proceeded to review with the source the information furnished by source in the previous report. Espinosa was quick to cite any small discrepancy between the information contained in the report and that which was furnished by the source during their conversation.

Espinosa queried the source in connection with individuals in Miami with whom the source had been familiar. The questions concerning these individuals included their current addresses, general background and sympathies, activity in Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) operations, etc.

Espinosa displayed a photograph of (First Name Unknown) Mellado and asked source if he recognized him. Mellado was described as male, of Caucasian race, who appeared to be Cuban, 32-35 years old, husky build, dark hair and dark eyes. The source could not recognize the individual photographed.

Espinosa made several inquiries about "Frank", a non-existent individual who the source intentionally included in his prior report as a principal agent for CIA. The source advised Espinosa that he met "Frank" on only two or three occasions and knew nothing more specifically about him.

While the source was answering a question concerning an individual named "Piche", Espinosa inadvertently referred to "Piche" as Epifanio Romero, which the source knew as the true name of "Piche." Romero is known by Espinosa to have been previously connected with CIA

![Source of Cuba-20]

SECRET

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# LAZARO *Frey* ESPINOSA BONET

SECRET

operations in *Africa* as well as the Miami area. He was especially interested in whether the source knew any dates of forthcoming infiltration runs into Cuba in which *Romero* might be involved.

Espinosa mentioned *Raul Villaverde* and asked the source if *Rafael Villaverde* is the brother of *Raul*. He further questioned the source whether or not *Raul* is still a CIA instructor in the use of explosives. The fact that *Raul* was in any way connected with instruction in the use of explosives was never mentioned previously by source in his report and must have been obtained by Espinosa from other sources.

The source happened to mention "La Osa", a nickname for a past team member for infiltration runs into Cuba. Referring to "La Osa", Espinosa interrupted and stated "Oh, Filiberto Leon Delgado." Source had forgotten the true name of "La Osa" and said that this identity must have been furnished to Espinosa through other sources.

Also asked of the source was whether *Justo*, *Luis Llorett*, a colleague of source, was still operating for CIA. The source replied he did not know, inasmuch as he had been too long removed from Miami area to be accurate in his reply.

Espinosa made inquiries on the following individuals with whom the source had been thought to associate in Miami area; specifically, he wanted to know any background information and whether or not the individuals were being directed by CIA:

Otto (Last Name Unknown), previously of operational interest to CIA in the Miami area.

Javier Souto, previously a principal agent in the Miami area for CIA.

Edgar Sopo, active in anti-Castro radio broadcasts to Cuba from the Miami area.

Manuel Artimes, a leader in Bay of Pigs Invasion and subsequently connected with anti-Castro organizations, including MRR.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

14-00000

LAZANO DEOXY ΕΣΡΓΟΣΑ ΕORNT

SECRET

Arturo Palian, porformed infiltration operations into Cuba with source. Espinosa specifically indicated that Source was to attempt to make contact with Lallan to got any Information of value when in the Miani arca.

Dr. Rafael Lolinan Salvucedo, previously attached to anti-Castro novemonts and alleged to be of operational value to CIA.

Andros Rozero, known by Espinosa to have participated in CIA directed operations in Africa. Scurce was directed to specifically contact Rosorg for any inforra- tion of value portaining to CIA activity when in the Miani arca.

Carided Gonzalez lechin, involved with exfiltration runs from Cuba.

Heriberto Dolgado, a cousin of source who lives in Venezuela, a brother of Adolfo Delgado who was killed in 1957 during an assault on the Latista Palace in Cuba. He is thought by the source to be a communist.

Source furnished little information regarding the above individuals and used as an excuse that although he was on close terra with nost of them, he has had little or no contact with then since leaving the Miami area.

Of all the individuals naned by Espinosa, he appeared most concerned in obtaining any information on Dr. Cesar Baro and Dr. Fernando Cabezas. Both individuals had been associates of the source in Havana and Cabezas had worked with the source in Havana. He advised Espinosa that although both are known to be anti-Castro, he did not feel either had any connection with CIA.

4

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

LAZARO EDDY ESPINOSA LONET

SECRET

On at least three occasions, Espinosa asked the source about the degree of fluency of the latter's spoken and written English and asked if he is able to relate with Americans. He was seemingly impressed when the source answered affirmatively and explained that he had attended night school in the New Jersey area.

Espinosa queried the source about some infiltration runs into Cuba that the source had led. Espinosa mentioned specific runs in which the source participated which had not been mentioned previously by the source. He seemed to be very well prepared and gave the impression that he know the answers to all the questions directed at the source. He was interested in any problems that the source's team might have experienced when entering and leaving Cuba during CIA operations.

He inquired about the control methods of CIA infiltration teams, whether members of the teams were ever surveilled in the United States, the chain of command for a team, and to whom team leaders report. The source answered that each member was responsible only to himself. Concerning security rules on the mother vessel during infiltration and exfiltration operations, the source stated that each team leader was responsible for the performance of his team and each team member was held responsible for each piece of equipment issued to him.

Source was requested to identify any mother vessel, the bases from which they operate, and the crew members. The source stated he could not answer these questions due to the length of time passed since the source was connected with CIA operations in Miami.

The source was further questioned regarding the methods of infiltration into Cuba, the role of the mother vessel, intermediary vessels, landing crafts, and the establishment of intelligence nets inside Cuba. Apparently noting that the source was not furnishing full details of the question, Espinosa interrupted and requested the source to verify Espinosa's explanation. Espinosa proceeded to relate concisely the plans and methods utilized in CIA operations.

5

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# LAZARO EDDY ESPIROSA BONET

SECRET

Asked how teams were able to build sheds and living quarters in the cangrove cacups inside of Cuba without being noticed by natives in the same area, the source replied that everyone in the vicinity of the infiltration points vere syupathetic to the teams. The sorce explained that one person in charge of an observation post approximately one mile away from one infiltration point cooperated with the teans and was later taken out of Cuba by the source.

Espinosa asked if there are still any collaborators or persons sympathetic to the United States Government on the Cuban coast with whom the infiltrators worked. Source replied that to his knowledge all those who were of assistance have been either jailed or killed.

Espinosa vas also concerned about the employment of CIA personnel in the Keys off of Florida and asked the source as to why CIA would maintain personnel in that area. Source stated he did not know unless it was to guard against infiltration by Cuban fishing vessels.

Questioned again about his reasons for cooperating with the CHUN, the source replied that he is an individual completely independent of any political belief. He said that he was initially motivated against the regime of Fidel Castro because he had seen his parents work hard and save for 40 years in order to afford a few luxuries in their later lives, only to see the Cuban Government intervene and claim possession of everything, including their home. He further explained that it appears the United States will never force Castro out of Cuba but that the fact remains he is Cuban and Cuba is his fatherland. He said he is willing to cooperate only to the extent that his parents will receive fair treatment from the Cuban Government.

Espinosa had information that the source was suspected at one time by Cubans in Miami of possibly being connected with the Cuban G-2, which information caused a United States Government investigation. Source replied that this was probably due to his number of successful rens into Cuba without incident which prompted others to suspect he had to have connections with G-2.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

LAZARO EDDY ESPIROSA BONET SECRET

On one run, the source was out of contact with CIA for ten days which added further to the possibility that he had cither defected er was working with G-3. Most of the rumors Vere quelled hoever when he submitted to & CIA lie detector test which reculted negatively. He credited his ability to avoid tubushes and misfortune to the experience he had in infiltration exercises as well as extensive CIA training.

Approximately one half hour of the meeting between the source and Espinosa entailed ascertaining the proficiencies of the source in the training of demolitions radio operation, veaponry, seamanship, etc., which he received from CIA. Nothing was mentioned concerning any intentions by CHUN to utilise the source in connection with any of his previously mentioned fields of training.

The source informed Espinesa that he had been contacted since their last meeting by Jose Ramon Egues, who is currently reorganizing the Vanguardia Revolucionaria Cubana, an anti-Castro organization. The source has been designated by Egues to lead the military faction of the organization. It was explained to Espinosa that Egues has goals of ultimately bombing the CHUN at New York City by means as yet not disclosed to the source. The source was instructed that in the future he is to spend as much time as possible with Egues in determining that organization's plans of action against the CMUN and Government of Cuba.

At different times throughout the meeting, Espinosa was observed to lean back on the ground which exposed a weapon tucked inside his trousers at the waist, which was described by the source to be a black Waltham 9MN Automatic Pistol.

At a point of about two hours through the interview, Espinosa took the source on foot to the Allerton Luncheonetic at 649 Allerton Avenue, where each bought a fountain Grink. While the source sat at the bar, Espinosa went into one of the two telephone booths located nearest the rear wall of the luncheonette. He was in the booth about 30 seconds but did not make a call. He did not indicate his reason for entering the booth. Finishing their drink, they returned to a shady area in the same section

7 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

LAZARO HEY ESPINOSA

SECRET

of the park and continued their discussion. At this point the source noted for the first time a person of Cuban appearance sitting on a nearby park bench who as soon as being connected with the meeting.
The source suspected that counter surveillance of the meeting.

Espinosa instructed the source to prepare in the report form the list of questions furnished to the latter on May 13, 1969. The answers in report form are to be placed in an empty cigarette package and dropped at 11:00 All on August 20, 1969, or August 22, 1969, from two to five feet north of the concrete store pillar behind an iron gate fence at the northeast corner of Bronx Park East at Allerton Avenue, which anchors the fence.
The source is to return to the drop site at 1:00 PM to check if the drop was covered.
Two dates for the pickup were provided in the event there were too many persons in that area to risk covering the drop.

Espinosa asked the source if he would be agreeable to go to Miami for a month in an effort to contact friends and ex-associates of CIA. The source stated he was not, in view of his family and employment obligations, but agreed to go for a short period, possibly three or four days. Espinosa told him that while in Miami, the source's mission would consist of determining current activities of the CIA, identities of any new CIA teams, identification of Government vessels currently in or out of service, new principal agents, CIA instructors, and any CIA activities including the deployment of Cubans to South American regions for CIA operations.

The date agreed upon on which source will go to Miami is August 25, 1969, but the source will indicate to Espinosa in the report to be left at the next drop that he will delay his departure until Saturday morning, August 30, 1969, in order to pick up his next pay check, and will not return until Tuesday morning, September 2, 1969. The source was instructed by Espinosa to meet him following his return to New Jersey at 11:00 All on September 17 or September 20, 1969, at the intersection of Gun Hill Road and White Plains Road, New York, at which time results of the Miami mission will be disclosed.

8

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

9*

LAZARO REY ESPINOSA LONET

The cosroo suggested that the next meeting take place in Carlstadt, New Jersey, to which suggestion Espinosa replied he does not like to schedule meetings unless absolutely necessary.

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency: it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

SECRET

14-00000


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)