14-00000
104-10527-10277 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO : 1. RYBAT, RI/AN DARDY, C/WI 2, O/OB 2, VR

TO: MEXI

INFO:

CITE DIR:

KUDESK ZROCEAN
5974
RE DIR-

IDEN A RUREK DUDIM 201-83827.

IDEN B ARLETTE FRANCOISE HEZARIFEND ALIAS CARTIER BORN 2 MARCH 36 PARIS FRANCE.

END OF MESSAGE

(Please cross-ref to attached outgoing)

C/S COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT ZROCEAN CABLES.


RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DESK ROGBAR

CITE DA 65975

KIDEZK KBOGRAH

RB MEXX 7005 (IF 66032)

1. SUBJ IS POFEED CALVIN E RAKEBRAND (IDEN A) WHO HAS COOPERATED WITH IN DOGRE CHAMAELS ODENVY AND KUBARK IN CONTIEU ING LIVESTIGATION BECAUN 1960 BASIS SURFACING.

BY KGB OF TOP SECRET COYOKE DOCUMET ACQUIRED THROUCH ESPIONAGE OP.

2. SUBJ CURRENTLY IF MEXX SINDYING SPANISH CONECTION PLAN DEVELOP JOURNALIST EMPLOYMEN LATTI AMERICA. HAS WORKED AS KEX SCRIPT WRITER AND ANNOUNC FOR FOA AND CURRENTLY DOING SOME SCRIPT WRITING ON PIECE WORK BASIS. BELIEVE MOMME JOLINO HIDI MEKI IS MOSTRESS (IDEN B) RATHER THAN HIS WHO EMPLOYED NEW YORK CITY. NO DEROG.

3. REQUEST HO STATION ACTION. ODENVY WILL HAVE NO CONTACT MEXI.

KID OF MESSAGES

C/S COMMENT: DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO PYBAT PROCEAN CABLES.

(Ref in trece request on subject)

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)