104-10422-10054 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

11/4

O'Reilly says gitting pressure on Weisenberg request on Vosenka. Has to know when S will finish on him. Said wht half. I said would try to console.

Jean said this was done. Will try oft from Sue Wigram. She did it.

Results showed we don't have Rocca's material, Mayd is supposed to be gi thing


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Points for Dan.

TRD - O.T.

Better have writing this off.

Eban on Wed to Subonthar.

Third man on review team.

Other office A. Day.

They will bring old notes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Query Hartman re/R on wamo 11/1
for Rankin of 13 Mar. 64 in Vol 31
which refers to Agency cable
to Homy (Dat 74673).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Mr. Wale:

Mr. Voorhis believes that the drafts to can be withheld for the FOIA requests. Unless- they present a significant change from the final copy. (if we ever see a final copy!) Shall I mark this att. for no release?

Also- what about other drafts-shall we


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

11/3

Bitsy's point on "the settlement")
point for defectors being exposed
by referring to the location of
the resident agent who is involved,
i.e. New Haven.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

AM 10/31

Gene Wilson said he would not provide a response for FOIA over the weekend as he is behind in 2000 requests & one more isn't going to matter.

He called in response to my request to Ed Kaletski.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Want Dan in charge for 3 days next week.

Work and schedule 10 people each day

Have 48 volumes for Senate

FOIA not working over weekend

I would like


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Points for G.K.:

2. Weekend Purs. - Sat - Sun - Mon.
   Don   Jomy   Bob

✓ FBI + State - ok with escagle clauses.

3. ✓ Dedars for Senate & FOIA - One standard

4. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

For final spot check. of
FOIA material.

14-1

* check all [Helbin litho the
* check all Dutch test [tags] info.

24

2/DV


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)