# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-2326398 SENSIND: PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: ,4,

STAFF

ACTION: C/OCC (129) INFO: C/ORMS, CTC/COPS, CTC/IEB, CTC/IFC, CTC/TRGCTB,
CTCARCHIVE, EUR/LGL, EUR/SA, LIMITO, MDSX, OCC/OSG, ODPD, FILE, C/CTC,
C/PCS, CTC/TRG (4/W)

95 2326398 ASR PAGE 001 IN 2326398
TOR: 171655Z NOV 95 VIEN 28456

SECRET 171648Z NOV 95 STAFF

CITE VIENNA 28456

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT CHIEF/OCC INFO OCC/OSG, CHIEF/PCS, C/EUR/SA, EUR/LGL,
OGC/OSD, OGC/OFLD

SLUGS: WNINTEL

*SUBJECT: RESPONSE FOR<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS COLLECTION ACT

REF: A. DIRECTOR 493642 95 2040015
B. DIRECTOR 493658 95 2040060

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE, FYI.

2. ON 14 NOVEMBER 1995, C/O NOBLEHORSE DELIVERED REF TEAR LINE
   INFORMATION AS REQUESTED. REF IDEN THEN ASKED FOR TIME TO FORMULATE
   HIS THOUGHTS AND SUBMIT THEM ON PAPER. ALTHOUGH NOBLEHORSE
   EXPLAINED THAT WE WOULD PREFER HE PASS THE RESPONSE DIRECTLY TO C/0,
   HE WAS APPARENTLY SO ANGERED OVER THE CONTENTS OF REF, THAT HE LATER
   TRIED TO CONTACT BERT MILLS DIRECTLY AND WITHOUT SUCCESS. ON 15
   NOVEMBER, REF IDEN PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING RESPONSE IN WRITING, WHICH
   IS BEING POUCHED TO HQS VIA TM 902-825:

NOV 14, 1995

TO BERT MILLS:

I OBJECT VIOLENTLY TO THE REVELATION OF MY NAME REGARDLESS OF
THE LAW. HERE ARE SOME REASONS:

1. I EMIGRATED TO AUSTRIA TWICE, FIRST IN 1971 AND AGAIN IN 1983.
   BOTH TIMES I HAD TO FILL OUT AND SWEAR TO LENGTHY FORMS ABOUT MY
   BACKGROUND. I USED MY RETIRED STATE COVER BOTH TIMES, THEREBY
   COMMITTING PERJURY TWICE UNDER AUSTRIAN LAW. MY OLD FRIENDS IN HIGH
   PLACES WHO MIGHT HAVE BEEN ABLE TO PROTECT ME HAVE ALL RETIRED OR,
   EVEN MORE, DIED. AUSTRIAN JUSTICE IS NOTORIOUSLY IMMUTABLE. DO YOU
   WANT ME TO GO TO JAIL?

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-2326398
SECRET
SENSIND:
PAGE: 2

2. LIVING SINCE RETIREMENT IN AUSTRIA FROM 1971 TO 1980 AND FROM 1983 TO THE PRESENT, I HAVE ACHIEVED HIGH POSITIONS IN VIENNA'S MUSICAL BODIES, BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE JOHANN STRAUSS SOCIETY AND VICE PRESIDENT OF THE VIENNA MEN'S SINGING SOCIETY, AND I AM PERSONALLY KNOWN TO SEVERAL RECENT AUSTRIAN PRESIDENTS, MANY REPORTERS AND RADIO FIGURES. I SUFFERED A DISABLING STROKE IN DECEMBER 1993 AND MY WIFE AND I, BOTH 75, CAN CONTINUE TO EXIST HERE BECAUSE OUR 2000 SQ. FT. APARTMENT IS WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF 2 POST OFFICES, SEVERAL SMALL SUPER MARKETS, MY FAMILY PHYSICIAN, OUR DENTIST, MY UROLOGIST, AND AN EYE DOCTOR AND OPTICIAN. WE ARE WITHIN WHEEL CHAIR DISTANCE OF THE CONCERT HALLS AND THE OPERA. WHERE CAN YOU DUPLICATE THIS FOR ME?

3. DURING MY ACTIVE CAREER IN VIENNA AROUND 1959 I INTERROGATED AND BROKE AN INTELLIGENCE SWINDLER WHO HAD BEEN A NAZI ASSASSIN: I PROMISED HIM SECRECY IF HE CONFESSED, BUT THE US ARMY PUT OUT A *"BURN NOTICE"* ON HIM, FORCING HIM TO MOVE TO GERMANY. I AM SURE HE WOULD LOVE TO FIND ME AND SHOOT ME.

4. VIENNA IS FULL OF ISLAMIC TERRORISTS. THERE HAVE BEEN SEVERAL *<ASSASSINATIONS,>EVEN* OF A CITY COUNCILMAN, BY THEM IN RECENT YEARS. UNDER AUSTRIAN LAW, I, AS A FOREIGNER, CANNOT EVEN GET A PISTOL LICENSE. YOU MUST KNOW ABOUT THE KIDNAPPING AND KILLING OF OUR COLLEAGUES AROUND THE WORLD.

4. I HAVE TWICE TESTIFIED BEFORE HOUSE AND SENATE COMMITTEES ABOUT *THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.>* THEIR FULL REPORTS SIMPLY CALLED ME THE "DESK OFFICER" AND THAT HAS SEEMED TO SATISFY EVERYONE. NEEDLESS TO SAY, IF YOU DO EXPOSE MY NAME, I WILL NOT EVER TALK TO ANY JOURNALISTS OR SO-CALLED HISTORIANS.

5. IF MY NAME IS EXPOSED, I WILL OBVIOUSLY HAVE TO LEAVE VIENNA, WITH THE WHOLE HOUSE FULL OF FURNITURE, PICTURES, LIBRARY, CLOTHING, ETC. WHICH I PACKED AND PAID TO HAVE MOVED OVER HERE IN 1983. BECAUSE OF MY STROKE, I WILL BE UNABLE TO DO ANY PACKING AND THE MOVE WILL BE VERY EXPENSIVE. WHERE CAN I RESETTLE IN A 2000 SQ FT. APT. SO CONVENIENTLY LOCATED.

6. MY WIFE AND I LOVE LIVING HERE FOR MANY REASONS, AND LEAVING WOULD BE A CRUEL AND NEEDLESS FATE.

7. I REGARD THIS LAW AS DISHONORABLE AND UNWORTHY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. IF YOU DECIDE AGAINST ME, I WANT TO APPEAR BEFORE THE BOARD AND EVEN THE PRESIDENT, WHOM I HAPPEN TO ADMIRE. I WILL PAY MY OWN WAY BACK TO DO SO. I SERVED IN WWII AND NEVER SPARED MYSELF; IN THE OUTFIT I WORKED HARD, WAS FEARLESS IN DEALING WITH MY SUPERIORS (CORD MEYER AND DICK HELMS CAN TESTIFY TO THAT) AND MY ADVERSARIES. I WOULDN'T EVEN THINK OF THREATENING TO EXPOSE THINGS TO PRESSURE YOU. I WILL BE EMPLOYING AN ATTORNEY OR TWO, FAMILIAR WITH OUR AFFAIRS, TO REPRESENT ME. I WILL NOT DENY, THAT I CONSIDER YOU AND EVERYONE ELSE IMPLEMENTING THIS LAW TO BE ENGAGING IN DISHONORABLE CONDUCT, UNWORTHY OF OUR GOVERNMENT SERVICE.

8. IN THE LATE 1960'S WHILE SERVING IN VIENNA UNDER TOM KARAMISSINIS, I WAS ORDERED BY HQ TO REVEAL TO AUSTRIAN MILITARY SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MHFNO: 95-2326398

SECRET

SENSIND:

PAGE: 3

INTELLIGENCE THAT A LOW-RANKING AUSTRIAN DIPLOMAT SERVING AS THEIR
INFORMANT IN BUDAPEST HAD ALSO BEEN RECRUITED BY US AND WAS REPORTING TO US. I REFUSED TO CARRY OUT THIS ORDER AND OFFERED MY
RESIGNATION. TO ME, IT WAS DISHONORABLE TO BETRAY A YOUNG AGENT WHO
HAD ACCEPTED OUR RECRUITMENT AND PUT FAITH IN OUR PROMISE OF
SECRECY.TO MY MIND AN AGENCY WITHOUT PRINCIPLES CANNOT SURVIVE AND
INDEED SHOULD NOT SURVIVE. TOM KARAMISSINIS, PERHAPS ONE OF THE
LAST HONORABLE MEN TO SERVE WITH US IN HIGH POSITION, FIRED A STRONG
CABLE BACK AND THE SHAMEFUL ORDER WAS RETRACTED.

9. I HAVE INVESTED ABOUT $50,000 IN MY APARTMENT, IN KEY MONEY AND
   IMPROVEMENTS. IF I LEAVE, I WILL LOSE ALL OR MOST OF THIS. OUR
   LAST MOVE TO VIENNA COST ME ABOUT $15,000 IN SEA FREIGHT AND
   INSURANCE. I WILL NEVER GET ON MY KNEES AND ASK TO BE MADE WHOLE IF
   YOU EXPOSE ME, BUT I MAY REPORT TO THE COURTS. I AM A RETIRED
   MEMBER OF THE VIRGINIA BAR.

10. LET ME REGALE YOU WITH AN EXAMPLE OF HOW THE HISTORIANS
    MINDLESS DRIVE TO KNOW EVERYTHING CAN LEAD TO A PROUD COUNTRY'S
    DISGRACING ITSELF. DURING WWII WHEN WE WERE INTERROGATING GERMAN
    POW'S, WE PROMISED THEM NO ONE WOULD EVER LEARN THEY HAD "SPILLED
    THEIR GUTS," AND WE ALL BELIEVED WE WERE BEING HONEST. BUT ALMOST
    25 YEARS AFTER WWII THE BRITISH DECLASSIFIED ALL THE ADI(K) REPORTS
    (THAT'S WHAT THEY WERE CALLED, AND EVEN THE "ROOM CONVERSATIONS,"
    TRANSCRIPTS OF THE CONVERSATIONS POWS HAD IN THEIR ROOMS, EVEN
    INCLUDING THE EXTREMELY VALUABLE SPEECHES MADE BY HIGH-RANKING
    LUFTWAFFE OFFICERS TO THEIR HIGH-RANKING FELLOW POW'S AT
    "COCKFOSTERS" MANSION. NEWCOMERS WERE VISITED BY THE OLD HANDS FOR
    A MONTH TO MAKE SURE THEY WEREN'T STOOL PIGEONS, BEFORE THEY WERE
    GIVEN THE PRIVILEGE OF ADDRESSING THEIR FELLOW OFFICERS ON SOME
    IMPORTANT ASPECT OF THE WAR. THE EXCELLENT BRITISH MIKES PICKED IT
    ALL UP.

IN RECENT YEARS, AT LEAST ONE LUFTWAFFE VETERAN ASSOCIATION,
THAT OF J.G.2, THE RICHTHOFEN GESCHWADER, SENT PEOPLE TO LONDON TO
GET. COPIES OF THE INTERROGATION REPORTS OF THEIR PILOTS. THEY DID
IT CHRONOLOGICALLY AND WERE SO SHOCKED AT THE VAST AMOUNT OF VITAL
DATA REVEALED BY THEIR BUDDIES THAT, IN ACUTE REVULSION, THEY
STOPPED LOOKING. I ASSUMED THEN THAT "EVERYONE" HAD "TALKED," WHICH
IS TRUE.

11. I AM 75 YEARS OLD PARTLY PARALYZED ON MY LEFT SIDE FROM A
    STROKE IN DEC. 1993. I WAS NEARLY FULLY REHABILITATED WHEN, IN MAY
    1994, I WAS HIT BY CONSTANT MUSCLE SPASMS ALL UP AND DOWN MY LEFT
    SIDE. THIS RATHER RARE CONDITION, BASICALLY A SUDDEN SUPER-HUMAN
    TIGHTENING OF ALL THE MUSCLES, WITH AFTER EFFECTS LASTING UNTIL THE
    NEXT SPASM, HAVE MADE IT INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT FOR ME TO STAND UP,
    WALK, OR EVEN SIT UP FOR VERY LONG. IN A FEW DAYS, WHEN ALL THE
    MANY MEDICINES ARE HERE, WILL BEGIN A 20-WEEK HOMEOPATHIC CURE FOR
    THE SPASMS UNDER DR. SCHRAMM, A LEADING SPECIALIST HERE. I CAN'T
    VERY WELL LEAVE FOR 20 WEEKS.

YOU WILL BE CONTACTED MOMENTARILY BY ONE OF MY ATTORNEYS. I
WILL ALSO BE IN TOUCH WITH MY CONGRESSMAN AND SENATORS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-2326398 SENSIND: PAGE: 4

WITH BITTER RESOLVE,
(SIGNED - REF B IDEN)

3. REF IDEN HAD ALSO ATTEMPTED TO PUT THE ABOVE INTO "CABALESE," BUT BECAME TOO TIRED TO FINISH IT. NONETHELESS, REF IDEN ALSO REQUESTED THAT THE CONTENTS OF THIS MESSAGE ALSO BE PASSED:
1. SAW SUBJ IN HIS APT NOV 14. CORDIAL

2. REASONS: SUBJ HAS EMIGRATED PRIVATELY TO AUSTRIA TWICE, 1971 AND 1983, USING RETIRED STATE COVER ON SWORN AUSTRIAN FORMS THUS COMMITTING PERJURY TWICE BY AUSTRIAN LAW. HIGH OFFICIAL HERE WHO COVERED FOR HIM NOW DEAD. WOULD FACE SCANDAL TRIAL, JAIL, AND DEPORTATION.

3. SUBJ PROMINENT IN LOCAL MUSIC CIRCLES, RADIO, TV, AND POLITICS AND MILITARY, GREAT SCANDAL POTENTIAL.

4. SUBJ INVESTED 50 THOUSAND DOLLARS IN APT AND WOULD LOSE IT IN HURRIED DEPARTURE, PLUS EXPENSE OF MOVING EFFECTS TO Z1, AND OWN FARES.

5. SUBJ NOW 75 HAD CRIPPLING STROKE DEC 93. WIFE ALSO 75 ABLE TO CARRY ON BECAUSE STORES, DENTIST, DOCTOR, UROLOGIST OF SUBJ, POST OFFICE ALL IN WALKING DISTANCE OF APT. CANNOT DUPLICATE THIS IN Z1.

6. SUBJ WOULD BE ENDANGERED BY ISLAMIC GROUPS HERE WHO HAVE *<ASSASSINATED>SEVERAL INCL ONE CITY COUNCILMAN. EMBASSY GETS THREATENING PHONE CALLS. AS FOREIGNER SUBJ DENIED AUSTRIAN PISTOL PERMIT. SUBJ ALSO ENDANGERED BY FORMER NAZI ASSASSIN AND INTEL SWI NDLER HE INTERROGATED AND BROKE 25 YEARS AGO, PROMISING HIM SECRECY; BUT US ARMY PUT OUT BURN NOTICE, FORCING NAZI TO MOVE TO GERMANY.

7. SUBJ HAS TESTIFIED FULLY BEFORE HOUSE AND SENATE COMMITTEES, TERMED "DESK OFFICER," OWN ROLE MINOR. ALTHO PUT IN CHARGE OF AGENCY INVESTIGATION BY HELMS THEN DDO, HIS WORK WAS SABOTAGED BY ANGLETON WHO WITHHELD HUNDREDS OF BEST FBI REPORTS AND CONFERRED DAILY WITH FBI WITHOUT PRESENCE OF SUBJ, ALL IN FLAGRANT VIOLATION OF HELMS ORDERS.

8. SUBJ AVERS HE WILL NEVER THREATEN TO EXPOSE AGENCY. EVEN IF SURFACED WILL DENY EVERYTHING.

4. FILE: 785-120-034.
   CL BY: 618711
   CL REASON: 1.5 (C)
   DECL ON: X1
   DRV FROM: HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)