2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

[File no: A-15-45-31]

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DCD/F10/760

ROOM: 913 Key Bldg

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

10. Wackenhut Corporation

Material retrieved through use of supplementary index.

HH 23731


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# OPERATIONAL INFORMATION REPORT

![DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE logo]

CLASSIFICATION

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY Algeria

SUBJECT Possible Identification and Surveillance REFERENCES of "CIA Agents" by the Algerian Security Service

REPORT NO. 00-A(S)-372 06270-74

DATE 19 March 1974

NO. PAGES 1

This report has been prepared by the DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE, DDI. The operational information contained herein may not be disclosed to personnel outside of the CLANDESTINE SERVICE, CIA, without the prior permission of the Domestic Contact Service.

SOURCE US citizen, a former intelligence officer who is employed with a firm that conducts business on a worldwide scale.

A representative of a US company with contracts in Algeria in early March 1974 held a personal conversation on business matters with a high level Algerian Foreign Ministry Official (other wise unidentified) in Algiers. The Algerian mentioned that his government has become increasingly concerned with the expanding presence in Algeria of US citizens, who are in the country as a result of the growing number of US business contracts. Almost in passing, the Algerian noted that his government is suspicious that many of the Americans might be US intelligence agents. In fact, he claimed that Algerian security authorities "already have identified six CIA Agents", and that these individuals "are under close surveillance". The US businessman did not want to appear too inquisitive, and so he did not probe for any further information on this matter. He is not able to provide the names of the individuals who are under suspicion.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Possible Identification and Surveillance of "CIA Agents" by the Algerian Security Service

DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
Support Report Section
Room 960, Key Building - ext. 2808
Mr. Evan Ames

WH 26912

12 March 1974

AF/W/Algeria
ATTN: Polly Ann Novell
6 C 35 Hqs.

Attached for your information is a copy of WH-00-A(S)-322/
06270-74.
Source of report is former DCD Chief of the Miami Field
Office. He learned this informa- tion from a co-worker who had just
returned from Algeria. Source does not believe the man has any
additional details.

E-2 INPDET CL BY 007622


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONFIDENTIAL

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

![table header details 1]

SUBJECT AND AREA:

Possible Identification and Surveillance of "CIA Agents" by the Algerian Security Service

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address):

Justin F. Gleichauf
Vackenhut Corporation
3230 Ponce De Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address):

Same as above.

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organisation, Address)

![table header details 2]

METHOD OF COLLECTION

INTERVIEW

THIS REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO X-EBAnes

FIELD COMMENTS

U.S. citizen, a former intelligence officer who is employed with a firm that conducts business on a worldwide scale.

Mr. Gleichauf, who as you know is the former Chief of the Miami and Dallas Field Offices, currently is employed with a company with extensive contractual arrangements overseas. He learned the information contained in this report quite by chance from a co-worker who returned from Algeria last week. Mr. Gleichauf believes that the co-worker does not have any further details.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

Process sheet typed in OSS. (DCD/Miami 12495)

![Handwritten notes about AF/N/Algeria, CC 35, and 26012]

C/S

F.O. CHIEF

J.F. Hennessey

Phatawaring

CASE OFFICER

CONFIDENTIAL

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

OSS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL 1118-92 XXX 74 INTEL
CITE: COV/V/IAR1 12499
LOC/WAR1 140721
ATTN: SUPPORT BRANCH/CSS (SEA-ALO)
INTEL REPORT
SOURCE: JUSTIN F. ALLICLICK, WACHENHUT CORPORATION, 3020
PONCE DE LEON BOULEVARD, CORAL GABLES, FLORIDA
FILES: 111.452

REDACTED CLAUSE CONF1 ATION
REDACTED
"CIA-TO-CIA" BY THE AMEBIAS SECURITY SERVICE

SOURCE: U.S. CITIZENS & FORMER INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS HELD AS
EMPLOYEES WITH A FIRM THAT CONDUCTS BUSINESS ON A
WORLD-WIDE SCALE.

1. A REPUBLIC WATCHING OF A U.S. COMPANY 11 CONTRACTED IN ALGERIA
   TO EARLY MARCH OF 1974, WAS A POTENTIAL PROBLEM WITH RESPECT
   TO POTENTIAL NEGATIVE PUBLICITY CONCERNING U.S. CITIZENS
   PARTICIPATING ON BEHALF OF FOREIGN STATES. 11 TOTALLY OFFICIAL
   THAT IT IS OF A.M. AMERICAN ENGLISH CITIZENS OF THE
   U.S. THAT IT IS THE POSSIBILITY OF AMERICANS BEING HIRED
   AS AN INTEGRAL PART OF THE 11 ARMY 11 FORCE BY THE
   ALGERIAN GOVERNMENT. INVESTIGATION INDICATED THAT THEY ARE
   UNDER ALGERIAN GOVERNMENT CONTROL TO TRAVEL ANY WHERE
   ALGERIA IS AT THEIR SERVICE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECURITY AUTHORITIES “ALREADY HAVE IDENTIFIED SIX CIA ASSETS”, AND THAT IT BE INITIATED THAT A CLOSE SURVEILLANCE
THE U.S. EMBASSY WAS LITTLE. SO BE IT. NOT PROFER TO ANY FURTHER INFORMATION IN THIS MATTER. NE 15 NOT ABLE TO FAGRCIC.
LADEN ALICION. END OF REPORT
1. GLICIA, WHO AS YOU KNOW IS THE
   FORMER CHIEF OF THE MIAMI AND DALLAS FIELD OFFICES. CURRENTLY
   IS EMPLOYED WITH A COMPANY WITH EXTENSIVE CONTRACTUAL
   LANCE THE INFO CONTAINED IN THIS
   REPORTS. CITE BY CHANCE FROM ACO-WORKER WHO RETURNED FROM
   ALISHTA DAUT . HE BELIEVES THAT THE CO-WORKER
3. T. TYPED COPY OF
   LACI CIA FILE. M TYPED COPY '1965'


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

HH 20901

Altan FTXS Data/Deported frea Bl Relvador

-20901

George D. Koulia/ca

19 March 1970

11/15 100

сла/2

39 4402 E.

Attached for your Laforse ica and possible interes of 00-3(3)-322/5120-701

collection of this ini te of cosmo operational.

to your services. Ther of incidents occur ocean!

vo con obtala detaile of information 18 dost

service spacifier requirements which to advance. Ка reply. Parthor of this wetar

your diocrer

2090


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Jalian HIND Beta/Reported from El Salvador

MB-20901

George S. Hamito/ta

19 Ene*

cce: LU/LB

C/WH/2
3 B 4402 Hq.

Attached for you
and possible.Igte:
00-A(3)-322/6120-
enclosure. Ploser
collecttia of thi
le of acca-operst:
to your services.
incidents occur
we can obtain dar
Information if da
servicio specific i
requiremento which
to advance. We po
reply. Further o'
of this isatori
your discretio

2096


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECT

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

![table describing field use only]

SUBJECT AND AREA

Panamanian National, Julian KIND Ruiz, Deportee
El Salvador/Limited Biographics
(Panama/El Salvador/Chile)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Henry I. Sayler, Development Manager
THE MACKICHUT CORPORATION
300 Bird Road
Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (Specify below)

EVALUATION
REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY
EXCHANGES
(CHECK ONE)

NO

TO USSR
FROM USSR

FIELD COMMENTS

ATTN: OSS

Please advise if this information is of interest. These type of incidents occur occasionally and we can obtain detailed information if desired.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

![illegible headquarters comments]

APPROVED BY
Supervisory, OSS

FILM
SECRET
209-16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

COUNTRY: Panama/El Salvador/Chile

XMDI OA(S) 322/06120-70

SUBJECT: Panamanian National, Julian NINO
Ruiz, Deported from El Salvador/
Limited Biographics

13 March 1970

1. On 5 and 6 Nar 70 guard personnel from The Weckenhut Corporation' were contracted to provide guard services for the subject to insure his departure from the US while changing plano at Miami international Airport. While supervising the guard service, the following information was obtained.

2. Subject is a Panamanian national, an alleged Cormunist, deported from El Salvador for political reasons. Covernment of Panama refused to accept entry of subject; Chile agreed to accept his. Subject had no pass- port or visa, only various "emergency" papera. Piyoical description: Black male, 5'6", 140 pounds, about 35 years of age, gold filled teeth.

3. Subject was being transported from-El Salvador to Chile via Lo Chilean Airlines and arrived at the Miami International Airport at 221! hours on 5 Mar 70. He was taken to the Lan Chile VIP room where how guarded until his time of departure ot 0545 ori 6 Har 70 for his dest. In Chile. There was to be a layover in Liza, Peru, where it was real that subject might attempt an escape.

4. At the Niaci International Airport subject was met by the Panam Consul General (name unknown) and the El Salvadoran Consul General, Img Ricardo Dutria, 208 Pan Americon hank Building, 150 EE Third Avenue, Mi Florida, Telephone 371-8850. Both Consuls stated subject was being du ported for political reasons, El Salvadoran Consul atated that subje a criminal and a Cosmumist; Panamanian Consul stated he was a crimin Both considered subject to be dangerous and botti felt that he pigist an escape.

5. Subject's luggage contained a black beret sith a red medalli it shaped like a shield with gold stitching on it which was not reed

6. Subject allegedly was a ceaber of a gang charged with mir and perforaing perverted acts on 20 people in El Salvador.

7. The attached paper contains a list of art, addresses. 2 mabere of individuals in Hani who cubject was supposed to contic his arrival in the Miami arve. When anked if he sisht do so, his ro was dented by officials. However, the El Salvadoran Consul General a copy of the document and I complied with his request. Subject w cware of a copy being made as nothing had been said in front of hi ever, when the document was returned to him he freediately smelled if there was an odor of copter fluid; he was apparently satisti copy had not been made as ho said nothing and just quietly p may,

- end -

SSCOST


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

HOTEL
INTER-CONTINENTAL
Te te ponga rapidamente en contar

Judith Herrera "La China"
Telefono de su casa 5219577 que de parte ella, saludos, y
con los panameños amistos

Harmodio Sledda Alvarado
3049 1/2 N.W. 9 Ave. Miami- Florida

Alberto "Tito" Barría Athanasiades
3712165 (que te pongan en contacto con los panameños) Saludos de mi parte

Hermodio Arias Guardia
4464090

Carlos del CIA
25 S.W. 7 Street
Miami- Fla- 33132

Juty Nones

En el Aeropuerto de Miami, on Taca trabajala Vare, el te puede conectar con los de panama-
Si no es en TACA es en cualquiera de las otras compañías...

LOCALIZAR AL DOCTOR CARLOS - Young Adome
Miami, llamar por gracia sus cheira y quele
La dirección) y a Arredondo

VIRBERTO ZURITA
en el down Town de Miami

EN LIMA - PERU

Teléfono: 5-6787 Saludos a dona Rosa Harilei
Ir a Bertha y a doña Pepita de Restrepo decirle las
preguntas la dirección para sus series
a quien las dirige

20901


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# THE MACKENHUT CORPORATION

300 Bird Road
Coral Gables, Florida

PERSONNEL:

A142050 - Wackenhut, George - President

A154530 - Sauler, Henry I. Development

A179729 - Kirtines,

A180822 - Brodie

- Berchmans, Bruce (Jr.) - Director of International Operations

A197788 - Berkmans

A201550 - Kuncar, Edvard Isa

REMARKS:

$154531 - Wackenhut Services, Inc., 3280 Ponce de Leon Blvd., Coral Gables, Florida


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET 221915Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE UCO/HEADQUARTERS 15633

TO PRIORITY ODO/SIAM

FRON OSG/FRENCH

SUBJECT: ME CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONACT OF JACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

1. THIS CASE IS RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENT CONTROL NUMBER CPLA-702449 AND JECTIVE V.

LA DIVISION HAS REQUESTED DCD ASSISTANCE IN RECONTACTING CRUCE BERCHMANS, JR., DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS OF JACKENHUT CORPORATION, CORAL GABLES, FLA. LA DIVISION PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING ADDRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER 3941 HIDWAY ST, MIAMI, TEL. (305) 443-2260. BERCHMANS IS A FORMER AGENCY NON-OFFICIAL COVER OFFICER WHO WAS ASKED TO RESIGN FROM THE AGENCY IN 1972.

2. THROUGH AN LA DIVISION OFFICER, TOM CLINES, BERCKMANS HAS REQUESTED CONTACT WITH AN AGENCY REPRESENTATIVE AS HE HAS INFORMATION WHICH MAY BE OF INTEREST TO THE AGENCY. THE NAME OF TOM CLINES MAY BE USED TO FACILITATE CONTACT WITH BERCKMANS AS THEY BELIEVE THAT BERCKMANS MAY HAVE INFORMATION ON POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN JAMAICA.

3. LA DIVISION HAS EMPHASIZED THAT THIS REQUEST IS ONLY IN RESPONSE TO BERCKMANS REQUES FOR CONTACT WITH HE AGENCY. LA DIVISION HAS NO OPERATIONAL INEREST IN BERCKMANS NOR HIS COMPANY. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL HAS CONCURRED IN CONTACTING BERCKMANS SY ODO MIAMI. E2 INPDET CL BY 09687

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

DEN-263-75 154531

25 June 1975

Chief, Domestic Collection Division

Operations Services Group/OSS (SStetson)

Chief, Denver Field Office

Headquarters Inquiry re Private Intelligence Organization, Denver, Colorado

Stetson/Walker talcon, 25 June 1975

1.  As per referenced telcon, following your initial inquiry on 20 June 1975 ve mearched our memories for any clue to an organization in the Douver sres such as the one described in the German Gorman novapaper article. It 16 It is quite likely that st an organization staffed with ex-government types and performing such things as telephone tapa for wealthy private citizens would have come to our attention through one of our many contacts in the the area. We could t think of cone that cone that matched your description and vo let the mattor drop

2.  On 24 June ve received a phone call from a local agent of the FBI who had received the same information that you had passed on to us and was trying to run it down. We again dented any knowledge of such an organization. Hovovar, as the matter was rohashed among the DFO staff ve recalled that a few months ago, shortly after the CIA expose first appeared in the New York Times, we received in the mail a brochure from The Wackenhut Corporation, 262 Havana, Denver, Colorado. This organization was described as a private investigative service with capabilities beyond that of the average private investigator in that they are staffed with men and women formerly employed by the FBI, Secret Service and DIA. He also believe that under the list of dervices they offered was some type of electronic surveillance. Since this type of organization in of no interest to us va discarded the brochure and forgot about it until your inquiry prompted us to recall ft.

3.  We passed the above information on to the local Bureau office, stressing that this was indeed a long shot, that our memory of the contents of the brochure is vague at best, that we kave no reason to believe that the Wackenhut Corporation is anything other than what it advertises itself to be, and that thin is our best recollection but even at that we are not absolutely sure it was the Wackenhut Corporation that was mentioned in the brochure.

4.  With this memorandum we merely wish to go on record with you an having passed the above information to the local FBI office in the form stated.

PJWalker/drl

E2 IMPDET CL BY 008582

JAMES N. SOMMERVILLE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET 2314432 JUN 76 STAFF
CITE OCD/MIAMI 13374
TO: DCO/HEADQUARTERS
ATTN: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP/OSD (FREICH) FROM NA INDARNING
SUBJ: CASE 65625 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF WACKETHUT CORPORATION OFFICER
REF: DCO/HEADQUARTERS 15633

I AM DET NO BRUCE DECKMAN, JR., AT 2230 ON 24 JUNE 1976, AT WACKENHUT OFFICES. PLEASE ADVISE IF IT WOULD BE USEFUL PRIOR TO THE MEETING TO KNOW SOMETHING OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES UNDERLYING THE FINAL STATEMENT IN PARAGRAPH ONE OF REFERENT. ES IMPDET CL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET 291430Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13387

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS

ATTN: OPERATIONS SERVICES GROUP (FRENCH)

SUBJ: DCD CASE 65805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONTACT OF WACKENHUT CORPORATION OFFICER

FYI, BRUCE BERYMANS TELEPHONED ME AT MY HOME LATE ON 28 JUNE 1976 TO TELL ME THAT AFTER CONSULTATIONS WITH HIS ATTORNEY HE HAS DECIDED NOT TO SUE THE AGENCY.
E2: IMPDET CL BY 011668

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

CITE DOD/D1A11 13377.

TO: DCO/HEADQUARTERS

ATTN: OSG (FRENCH)

SUBJ: CASE 65835

REF: DCO/HEADQUARTERS 13603

1. I MET BRUCE BERCKMANS AT HIS JACKENHUT OFFICE THIS MORNING AS SCHEDULED. BERCKMANS BEGAN THE INTERVIEW BY REQUESTING THAT I READ A MULTIPAGE LETTER WHICH HE IS THINKING OF SENDING TO THE INSPECTOR GENERAL. IT IS A DETAILED STATEMENT OF GRIEVANCES STEMMING FROM HIS FORCED RESIGNATION AND INDICATES THAT HE IS CONSIDERING A SUIT AGAINST THE AGENCY. HE HAS IN FACT RETAINED COUNCIL, APPARENTLY ANOTHER FORMER AGENCY STAFFER, BUT THEY HAVE NOT YET DECIDED WHETHER TO PROCEED WITH LEGAL ACTION. OTHER ELEMENTS SHOULD PROBABLY BE EXPLORED.

2. THE FOREGOING NOT WITHSTANDING, BERCKHAUS, WHO IS FOND OF SAYING THAT HE RESIGNED FROM THE AGENCY BUT NOT THE UNITED STATES, OFFERED TO SERVE AS A FAIRLY TYPICAL DCD CONTACT WITH RESPECT TO THE INFORMATION HE DERIVES IN HIS REGULAR JACKENHUT DUTIES. BERCKMANS UNDOUBTEDLY HAS EASY USEFUL CONTACTS ESPECIALLY IN LATIN AMERICA AND SOON IN THE MIDDLE EAST. UNDER NORMAL CIRCUMSTANCES THIS MIGHT BE A USEFUL INFORMATIONAL RELATIONSHIP.

3. I TOLD BERCKMANS, HOWEVER, THAT IN VIEW OF THE CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN PARAGRAPH 1 ABOVE I FELT IT INAPPROPRIATE FOR US TO MAINTAIN ANY SYSTEMATIC RELATIONSHIP AT THIS TIME. SHOULD WE DECIDE NOT TO PROCEED WITH HIS SUIT AND OTHER MATTERS FALL INTO PLACE, PERHAPS A FUTURE USEFUL CONTACT COULD BE ESTABLISHED.

4. IN DESCRIBING HIS DUTIES, BERCKMANS DID DROP ONE MINOR PIECE OF INFORMATION WHICH MIGHT BE USEFUL AGAINST THE CURRENT

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 13377 SECRET

JAMAICAN SITUATION. THROUGH A SUBCONTRACTOR HIS COMPANY IS CONSIDERING A CONTRACT IN JAMAICA WHICH WOULD PROVIDE CUSTODIAL SERVICES FOR REVERE BAUXITE HOLDINGS WHICH THE COMPANY IS APPARENTLY PLANNING TO COTHBALL. E2 IMPDET CL BY 211668

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Chief, Domestic Collection Division
Deputy for Field Operationa (Starling)
Chief, Niani Field Office

15-45-31

11-125-13
3 December 1973

Contact with EFT A 170

A-130680

1. In view of the conclucrable interest exposed from them to tive in any Agercy involvement with If the following information 18 awalitted for the record. de have learned fruirectly but opparently accurately that Panvel J. Chavez Je les very recently left Lis position with the lulemus Coronella nos closed as a Senior executive concerned villain Join Moin security ratlero for 17. You will recall that Ciever was store time ait to the Meal Field Office am liter t eplo.ce.

2. Ceciless to say, thin cifice

154531

once got Leen in contact with JTF and
Local reorraply and routine courtesy are such that cu occasion an unintended social encounter ceert hoan vẻ rect in, Charoż again ne official business viễn be conductel of cay hind.

BRUCE E. HARRAGHT

BM:pow

cc: 038 (Watts)

F2 IAPDER CL DY 001176


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET 221915Z JUN 76 STAFF

CITE OOD/HEADQUARTERS 15603

TO: PRIORITY DDS/SIAMI

ERON USG/FRENCH

SUBJECT: CASE 60805 - LA DIVISION REQUEST FOR CONACT OF JACKENHUI CORPORATION OFFICER

1. THIS CASE IS RESPONSIVE TO REQUIREMENT CONTROL NUMBER CPLA-768419/AND JECTIVE V

JUN 22 3451

197788
19778

LA DIVISION HAS REQUESTED DCD ASSISTANCE IN RECONTACTING BRCHMANS, JR, DIRECTOR OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS OF JACESNHUI CORPORATION, CORAL GABLES, FLA. LA DIVISION PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING WOLTRESS AND TELEPHONE NUMBER: 3941 MIDWAY ST, MIAMI, TEL. (305) 443-2260. BERCHMANS IS A FORMER AGENCY NON-OFFICIAL COVER OFFICER WHO JAS A SO I FROM THE AGENCY 14 1978.

1154

2. THROUGH AJ LA DIVISION OFFICER, TOM CLICS, BERCKMANS HAS REQUO CONTACT SITA AN AGENCY REPRESENTATIVE IS HE HAS INFORMATION MAY SE OF ETEROT TO THE AGENCY, THE HANG OP FOR CLIESDAY JE USED TO FACILITATE CONTACT LINN SERCKMANS AS THEY SOF HAVE INFORMATION ON POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS IN JAMAICA.

3. LA DIVISION HAS EMPHASIZED THAT THIS REQUEST IS ONLY IN RESPONSE TO BERGEMANS REQUES FOR CONTACT SIDH HE AGENCY LA DIVISION HAS NO OPERATIONAL INEREST I BERCKYANG NOY HIS COMPANY. OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNSEL HAS CONCURRED TO CONTACTING BERCKMANS BY OCH MIAMI INPOST CL BY 00687

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET 0215152 OCT 73 STAFF
CITE DOD/MIAMI 12422
DED/WASHINGTON

ATTN: DEPUTY CHIEF, DOD (HORTON)

SUPJ: SEBASTIAN CHARLES VOLPE

REF: HORTON/MAINWARING TELECON OF 2 OCTOBER 1973

1. ON THE AFTERNOON OF 1 OCTOBER 1983 I MET AT HIS REQUEST WITH MARTY MARTINEZ, A FORMER AGENCY STAFFER NOW EMPLOYED BY THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION. MARTINEZ SAID THAT HE HAD INFORMATION TO PASS TO US WHICH ACTUALLY ORIGINATED WITH THE DADE COUNTY ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU AND WHICH WAS INITIALLY PASSED TO WACKENHUT WITH THE UNDERSTANDING THAT WACKENHUT WOULD IN TURN CONVEY IT TO THE AGENCY. PARENTHETICALLY, FOR THE RECORD, WE MAINTAIN SOME SLIGHT CONTACT WITH A FEW WACKENHUT EMPLOYEES, SEVERAL OF WHOM ARE FORMER AGENCY STAFFERS, BUT WE HAD NOT MET MARTINEZ PRIOR TO THIS MEETING.

2. ACCORDING TO MARTINEZ, HE HAD BEEN TIPPED BY A CLOSE CONTACT IN THE ORGANIZED CRIME BUREAU THAT SEBASTIAN CHARLES VOLPE HAD BEEN APPREHENDED RECENTLY APPARENTLY IN THE COURSE OF INSTALLING A MIKE OR WIRE. THE CIRCUMSTANCES AND DATE ARE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

PAGE 2 DCD/MIAMI 12422 SECRET

NOT KNOWN AT THIS TIME. VOLPE INMEDIATELY CLAIMED THAT HE WAS ON A MISSION FOR THE CIA AND APPARENTLY SUCCESSFULLY AVOIDED CHARGES AND PUBLICITY, AT LEAST INITIALLY. A LOCAL FOUR-MAN PANEL OF JUDGES REVIEWED THIS MATTER, HOWEVER, AND AT LEAST ONE JUDGE HAS INDICATED HE DOES NOT BELIEVE VOLPE'S STORY.

3. WACKENHUT DOES NOT KNOW WHAT THE NEXT STEP WILL BE BUF

APPARENTLY THE ORGANIZED CRICKE BUREAU WISHED TO ALERT THE AGENCY IN ADVANCE TO POTENTIAL ADVERGE PUBLICITY WHICH MAY ARISE AT ANY TIME. INFERENTIALLY, THE CRIME BUREAU APPEARS ALSO TO BE CONCERNED THAT VOLPE VAS REALLY INVOLVED FOR THE AGENCY.

4. A. VOLFE, BY THE WAY, IN ADDITION TO THE E ALZAOY PROVIDED, IS VARICUSLY AS SAM VOLFE, CHLESS. VOLES AND JUST PLAIN CHAPLIE VOLFE HE HAS APPARENTLY STARTER SOME CO OF SECURITY BUSINESS KNOWN AS ALEX ALERT, A POSSIELE COMPLICATING FACTOR IS OUR WILDERSTAND ENG. THAT VOLPE KAS EX THE TOP WIRE MAN FOR LOCAL STATE'S ATTORNEY RICHARD GERSTEIN, STEIN, AMONG OTHER THINGS, IS KNOWN FOR HIS EFFORTS TO BRING LOCAL CONSPIRACY CHANGES AGAINST THE WATERGATE GROUP, A FLAT WHICH WE BELIEVE ARCHIEALD COX SUCCESSFULLY BLOCKED.

179731

179732


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

PAGE 3 DCD/MIANI 12422 SECRET AFF 179733

5. VOLPE, WE BELIEVE HAS ALSO ACTED ON 22HALF OF DADE COUNTY SHERIFF E. VILSON PURDY, AH EXTREMELY CONTROVERSIAL LOCAL FIGURE, KNOWN ALONG OTHER THINGS FOR EXTENSIVE USE OF TELEPHONE TAPS.

6. THE CIRCUITOUS ROUTE TAKEN DY THE 07044IZED CRIME BUREAU TO PASS THIS INFORMATION IS POSSIBLY ELCT EXPLAINED BY THE FACT THAT A SENIOR MEMBER OF THE BURSAU KNOWS THAT MARTINEL IS A FORMER AGENCY STAFFER. IN ADDITION, WE ARE TOLD THAT THIS INDIVIDUAL HAS A DISLIKE OF AND DISTRUST FOR REGULAR LIAISON CHANNELS AT ANY LEVEL OF GOVERNMENT.

7. AS DISCUSSED WE ARE REPORTING THIS FOR THE RECORD IN THE BELIEF THAT ANGUS THUERMER AND PERHAPS OTHERS NIGHT WISH TO BE FOREWARNED. WE PLAN NO FURTHER ACTION UNLESS REQUESTED BY YOU. E2 IMPDET CL EX 304476

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CONFIDENTIAL

15-45-31

DAL-108-72

1 May 1972

ATIN: Director, Domestic Contact Service
USS (Watts)

Chief, Dallas Field Office

TSD Interest in Electronic Surveillance System

A-154531

1.  A year or so ago, while in Miami, I forwarded some Information on an electronic surveillance system developed by Wackenhut Corporation of Coral Gables, Florida. TSD was quite interested and sent two technicians to Coral Cables to check on the system and subsequently invited Wackenhut representatives to put on a demonstration in Washington, at Agency expense.

A-130680

2.  I recently met Manuel Chavez of Wackenhut, an old friend, and he stated that Wackenhut had not heard further from our people but he would like to advise that the system is now available on the market. He furnished a brochure concerning the product which is appended.

3.  Would you please forward this to TSD. If I recall correctly one of the TSD representatives who visited Coral Gables was Paul Reilly.

JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF

JPC/jb

Attachment

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

15-45-31

SECRET 241608Z NOV 70 CITE CONTACTS/MIAMI 2125

CONTACTS/WASHINGTON

ATTN: OSS (MUSULIM)

SUBJ: CASE 55539 - MINIATURE TRANSMITTERS

REF: CONTACTS/WASHINGTON 87573

A130680

WE WILL EXPECT RILEY AND ROHRER IN THE MIAMI FIELD OFFICE,
ON 1 DEC 70. THEY WILL BE PICKED UP BY MANUEL CHAVEZ OF THE
WACKENHUT CORPORATION AND TAKEN TO THE DEMONSTRATION.

SECRET
A154531

![image of 'Cuble and Esterratic\nSecurity for \nAmericans']


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

15-45-31

![stamp image]

SECRET

SECRET 8413322 NOV 70 CITE CONIACES/MIAMI 2116

CONTACTS/JASHINGTON

ATTN: OSS (MUSULIN)

SUBJ: CASE 55539

MANUEL J. CHAVEZ, WACKENHUT CORP, ADVISES 4F THAT NEW LOCAL FACILITIES FOR TESTING EQUIPMENT REFERRED TO IN MIM-160-73 SHOULD BE COMPLETED BY ABOUT DO YOU AND HE SUGGEST THAT THE DEMONSTRATION REQUESTED BY TAN CAN TAKE PLACE ON NOV. AS ANTIC

IF THIS IS AGREEABLE TO TSD-SO THAT ARRANGEMONES CAN BE FIRMED UP.

GP-1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# CONFIDENTL F15-45-31

MIM-178-70

29 October 1970

Director, Docestic Contact Service
OSS (Masulin)

Chief, Miani Field Office

Miniature Transmitters

MIM-160-70 of 21 Sep 70

Referenced memo reported on a miniature transsitter developed by Electro-Pinders, Inc., a subsidiary of Mackenbut Protection Systems, Coral Cables, Plorida.

2. Manuel J. Chavez has advised me that Electro-Pindere, Inc., operations have been moved from California to Coral Gables and in case we have any interest in the equipeest full particulara can be obtained through this office.

JUSTIN P. GLEI CHAUP

JPC/cas

CONFIDENTL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET F 15-45-31

Chief, Miami Field Office

Director, Domestic Contact Service,

29 October 1970

New Case 33,539 (Electro-Finder's Incorporated/Car Locating System)
Request for Demonstration

B/S 15-4531

REF:
MDM-160-70 with attachments

1. This is new case opened to your office.

2. TSD/SDB is interested in the various Electro Finder's car locating equipment which are the subject of referent, as possible alternative to TSD's present capabilities in this field of interest.

3. If it is possible to do so please arrange for a demonstration of subject equipment for TSD sometime in mid-November 1970, at the convenience of representatives of Electro-Finder's Incorporated. If such a demonstration is not possible in Florida, without incurring any cost to TSD/Special Devices Branch, or in any case, if further discussion is desired, please advise and we will be glad to pursue the matter further with appropriate TSD components.

4. We appreciate your cooperation and support in this case.

JAMES R. MURPHY

OSMusalia/ba
cc: Services Div. (Control)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECRET

Director, Domestic Contact Service

ATTN : OSS (insulin)

Chief, Miami Field Office

21 September 1970
KIM-160-70

## Miniature Transmitters

REFS : MIM-145-70
Your Speed Letter of 3 September 1970

1.  On 21 Sep 70 Mr. George Wackenhut, President Wackenhut Protection Systems of Coral Cables, Florida invited me to a demonstration of a new device his company has developed, which may be of some interest to us and other Government agencies. The device involves a small transmitter, dimensions about 1/2" x 3/4" or less than the size of a half pack of cigarettes.

2.  The transmitter can be used to track vehicles as well as persons. If used in a car reception varies from 2 - 3 miles in major high-rise Metropolitan areas such as New York, to 5 - 6 miles in Miami. The central station could monitor a fleet of cars and determine where a given vehicle is.

3.  If the transmitter is carried on a person, as in a heel, it would only have a range of 3/4 - 1 mile, but if carried at the waist it would have 1 1/2 - 2 miles. If used at the line of sight it would have a range of 8 - 10 miles.

4.  The transmitter is operated on 40 milliwatts and is on the air 1 second of 5. Its signal can not be picked by on FM/AM receivers and the batteries are standard Mercury batteries which last 7 - 10 days.

5.  The equipment was recently tested by the Los Angeles Police Department and a car with the transmitter was located in a 60-foot deep, three-layer parking garage in Los Angeles.

6.  Some printed material describing the equipment is appended as of possible interest to TSD and other selected consumers.

7.  FYI: Electrolinders, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wackenhut.

NRS-154531

JUSTIN F. CLEICHAUP

JFG:mbj
Attachment: Printed Material As Stated


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Director, Domestic Contact Service
ANN : Services Division
Chief, Kiani Field Office

Initial Contact with: Ir, John S. Amarell Jr, Vice President
Weckenhut Servicca Inc
3200 Peace do Icon Divd
Coral Gables, Florida
[Phone: 445-14811

B-67-353
14-20-50
/WACKESHUT SERVICES INC
F-15-45-31
13 December 1967
MM-294-67

B-67-353

$154531

1. On 27 Nov 67 Gua C. Guerrero nct with Mr. Amarell, Vico
   President for Weckenhut Services Inc., with offices at 3230 Ponco do
   Leon Blvd., Coral Gables, Florida

2. tr. Marell, by his position as Vice President, is conizand
   of all contractual cervices in being with the company in forcim
   countries. Even thouch ho doea very limited traveling, Lembers of
   his staff and Mr. George Wackenhut, President, do a considerable
   mount of traveling.

3. Mr. Amarell will make arrangements for Guerrero to meet with
   Mr. Vackophut and other members of the corporation when he feels will
   be able to assist w.

4. The Wackenhut corporation provides various types of security
   services to private industry and government accacies. They are
   attempting to establish investigative and guard cervice, agencies in
   several Latin American countries and are vell established in Colombia
   at the present tine.

5. Mr. Amarell is most cooperative and even though he feels that
   sone of the corporation security projects are privileged information
   he also feels that members of the corporation will be able, at tires,
   to provide useful information.

GCG:nzb

JUTEN F. GLEICHAUR

Copy F/ 8-67-353 (John S. Amarell, Jr)

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# CONFIDENTIAL

(when filled in)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DCD COLLECTIONS

15-45-31

![table defining organization and resident office location]

![table defining case number]

![table defining released data]

COVER AND RELATED OPERATIONAL LEAD/US COMPANY CONTRACT WITH SONATRACH

![table defining contact name, title, organization and address]

Bruce Barkman

Vackonjut Corporation

3200 Ponce De Leon Boulevard

Coral Gables, Florida

![table defining the individual number]

![table defining the subject]

![table defining the source]

![table defining the organization number]

![table defining the type]

![table defining the dissemination]

SUB-SOURCE (Name Title Organization, Address)

![table defining individual number]

![table defining organization number]

METHOD OF COLLECTION

![table defining the method of collection, including interview, other document, trip report, other]

![table defining the evaluation request and exchange]

DIRECTED TO:

![table defining the osg sree icg, desk officer]

OSB SOALHU

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

Process sheet typed in OSG/OSB par

MIAMI TWX 13718

AJAJA

FIELD COMMENTS:

![table for internal use only]

INTERNAL USE ONLY

![table defining the mbo and country]

![table defining the dpdet gl by]

![table defining the individual number]

197778

I/O Mainwaring

F.O. CHIEF Mainwaring

DESK OFFICER Almy

BRANCH SECTION CHIEF

OSB/OSB

FORM 25 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

E2 IMPDET CL BY 006697

CONFIDENTIAL

5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                 | FOR FIELD USE ONLY |                |                      | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY             |
| --------------- | ------------------ | -------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| A. FIELD OFFICE | B.REQ. CODE        | C. CASE NUMBER | FORWARDED MO. DA, YR | J.O REPORT NO. MO DA YR               |
| 1 2 3 4         | 11 12 13 14 15     | 16 17 18 19 20 | 22 23 24 25 26       | 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36         |
| X M I           |                    | 6111           | 03134                | 0641874                               |
|                 |                    |                |                      | RELEASED MO DA YR                     |
|                 |                    |                |                      | DISSEM RECORD 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 |

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

Students at the University of Miami

(Algeria)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Robert Brodie
HACKENHUT CORPORATION
300 Bird Road
Coral Gables, Florida

F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Sama

G: SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

ORGANIZATION NO.

A180822

ORGANIZATION NO.

A-154531

ORGANIZATION NO.

SUBJECT

1. SUFFI-CIENTLY WELL
2. TOO GENERAL

3. SUPPLIED BY OTHER AGENCIES

4. OTHER/MISC

5. COMBINED WITH

6. INSUFFICIENT INTEREST

45. TYPE OO-E

46. GRAPHICS, MAPS, PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHER

46. NOT DISSEM-INATED

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

[X] INTERVIEW

[ ] TRIP REPORT

[ ] OTHER DOCUMENT

[ ] OTHER (specify below)

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USER ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

DIRECTED TO: ALIEN OSS SOV INT

[X]

CASE OFFICER: Grossa

[ ] NO

[ ] TO USSR

[ ] FROM USSR

FIELD COMMENTS:
HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS:

FR Atlanta has reiterated interest in anything we can develop on this group of Algerians at the University of Miami.

C/3

Bemainwaring:paw

F.O. CHIEF

Bemainwaring

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
7-69

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CONFIDENTIAL

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS 15-45-31

Possible Identification and Surveillance of "CIA Agents" by the Algerian Security Service

(ALGERIA)
Justin F. Gletchauf
Wackenhut Corporation
3280 Ponce De Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables Florida

A13347

A154531

Same as above.

METHOD OF COLLECTION

INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT
OTHER (specify below)

EDAmes

U.S. citizen, a former intelligence officer who is employed with a firm that conducts business on a worldwide -scale.-

Mr. Gleichauf, who as you know is the former Chief of the Miami and Dallas Field Offices, currently is employed with a company with extensive contractual arrangements overseas. He learned the information contained in this report quite by chance from a co-worker who returned from Algeria last week. Mr.. Gleichauf believes that the co-worker does not have any further details.

Process sheet typed in OSS. (DCD/Mlam1 12495)

J. F. Hennessey D.Wainwaring EDames OSS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                        |                               |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **FOR FIELD USE ONLY** | **FOR HEADQJARTERS USE ONLY** |

| A. FIELD OFFICE | B. REQ. CODE | C. CASE NUMBER |
| --------------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| XH1H            |              | 53602          |
|                 |              | 61111          |

| D. SUBJECT AND AREA:                |
| ----------------------------------- |
| Students at the University of Miami |
| (Algeria)                           |

| E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address): |
| ------------------------------------------------ |
| Robert Brodie                                    |
| MACKENHUT CORPORATION                            |
| 300 Bird Road                                    |
| Coral Gables, Florida                            |

| F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address): |
| ----------------------------------------------- |
| Same                                            |

| G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address): |
| --------------------------------------------------- |
|                                                     |

| H. METHOD OF COLLECTION |
| ----------------------- |
| X INTERVIEW             |
| OTHER DOCUMENT          |

TRIP REPORT

OTHER (specify below)

| DIRECTED TO | ALIEN | OSS | SOV | INT | CASE OFFICER |
| ----------- | ----- | --- | --- | :-: | ------------ |
| X           |       |     |     |     | Gross        |

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS

a) On several occasions FE Atlanta has expressed interest in whatever we might develop on Algerian Students in the Miami area. We hope to have more than this including some assessment data but this is at least a start.

b) The material originates not with the University of Miami but rather is from the files of Hockenhut.

c) A copy of this report is being sent directly to FE Atlanta.

|                                     |
| ----------------------------------- |
| EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM           |
| USER ONLY: EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)    |
| NO                                  |
| TO USER                             |
| FROM USSE                           |
| RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |

E2 IMFDET CL BY 007622

F.O. CHIEF:
BIGLITEMARIG

RELEASING:
BIGLITEMARIG

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

FORM 7-69 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(120-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

(When Filled In) 45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                                                                                                                              |                                                                                     |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- |
| **FOR FIELD USE ONLY**                                                                                                       | **FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY**                                                       |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| A. FIELD OFFICE                                                                                                              | B. AFC. CODE 11 12 13 14 15                                                         |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| X M I N                                                                                                                      | C. CASE NUMBER 16 17 18 19 20 61168                                                 |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| D. SUBJECT AND AREA Sensitive                                                                                                | E. FORWARDED MO DA YR 22 23 24 25 26 0114                                           |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
|                                                                                                                              | F. DATE 27 28 29 30 31 32 007467                                                    |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
|                                                                                                                              | G. EXTRA DISSEM. RECORD 37 38 39                                                    |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
|                                                                                                                              | H. RELEASED MO DA YR 40 41 42 43 44                                                 |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address) Robert Erle BRODIE Wackenhut Corporation 300 Bird Road Coral Cables, Floride | 45 TYPE DOC GRAPHIC, MAPS PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHER                              |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address) Documentary                                                                   | ORGANIZATION NO. A154531                                                            |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |
| G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)                                                                           | INDIVIDUAL NO. A180822                                                              | 46 DISSEM. RATED | 1. SUBJECT AREA 51 52 53 54 0 0 0 0 1. SUFFICIENTLY WELL KNOWN 0 0 0 0 2. TOO GENERAL 0 0 0 0 3. DATA SUPPLIED TO OTHER AGENCIES 0 0 0 0 4. OTHER/MISC. 0 0 0 0 5. COMBINED WITH 0 0 0 0 6. INSUFFICIENT INTEREST | ORGANIZATION NO. |
| H. METHOD OF COLLECTION: X INTERVIEW X OTHER DOCUMENT DIRECTED TO ALIEN OSS SOV INT FIELD COMMENTS                           | TRIP REPORT OTHER (specify below) X (Asea/Blake) HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS CASE OFFICER |                  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                  |

THIS IS SENSITIVE

E2 INFUET CL BY 007622

C/S F.O. CHIEF CASE OFFICER DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

SEN/NJR REM/WARINE

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

7-69: SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                    |            |                           |
| ------------------ | ---------- | ------------------------- |
| FOR FIELD USE ONLY |            | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |
| FIELD OFFICE       | B.REQ.CODE | C. CASE NUMBER            |
| X H I M            |            | 6 1 1 9 8                 |
|                    |            | 6 1 4 0 4                 |

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

## Cuban Terrorist Program Designed to Affect It-Bahamian Relations

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

### Robert Earle BRODIE
Wackenhut Corporation
200 Bird Road
Coral Gables, Florida

F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

### Seca

G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

* [x] INTERVIEW
* [x] OTHER DOCUMENT
* [] TRIP REPORT
* [] OTHER (specify below)

| ALIRN | 055 | SOV | INT | CASE OFFICER |
| ----- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
|       | X   | X   | X   | (Acca/Blake) |

DIRECTED TO

FIELD COMMENTS

References: Maimering/Austin/Blake telecons of 10 & 11 January 1974.

Wackenhut Corp. offered this information gratuitously, for security reasons, they have said this look like a report to a client - thus, "addressed" and "first" refer to CIA.

Beyond this report, Linal Nial officials, based on their clandestine activities, state unequivocally that this is one phase of a Cuban program to hurt Washington-Nassau relations.

Some of these names are known to other Agency components.

Copy to MI Station

A-7
E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

| C/S             | F.O.CHIEF      | CASE OFFICER | DIVISION/STAFF/DESK |
| --------------- | -------------- | ------------ | ------------------- |
| REMaimering:ljh | REMAIMARING... |              |                     |

FORM 25
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET
(When Filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS 15-45-31

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

FIELD OFFICE R.NFO.CODE C. CASE NUMBER FORWARDED

SUBJECT AND AREA
Presidential Aspirations of Jose Luis Cruz Sacazar

(Guatemala)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Manuel J. CHAVEZ, Jr.
The Wackenhut Corporation
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida
INDIVIDUAL NO.
A130680
DEPARTMENT NO.
+154531

G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
Same

ORGANIZATION NO:

INDIVIDUAL NO:

TYPE OD-E

GRAPHICS, MAPS
SUBJECT
COMBINED ITEM
INSUFFICIENT INTEREST

07 SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

ORGANIZATION NO:

INDIVIDUAL NO:

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   INTERVIEW

*   TRIP REPORT

*   OTHER DOCUMENT

*   OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO: ALIEN OSS SOV INT CASE OFFICER HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS.

FIELD COMMENTS
Another Local source reports substantially the same thing

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

C/5
BEM:ljh

F.O. CHIEF
DEMAINWARING

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET (When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FIELD OFFICE

SUBJECT AND AREA

Cabinet Reassignments/Possible Upcoming Government-vice Shakeup

(GUATEMALA)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chaves
The Wackenhut Corporation
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

SOURCE NO

INDIVIDUAL NO
A150686

ORGANIZATION NO
A154531

SUBJECT

SUBSOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

None

METHOD OF COLLECTION

INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO

CASE OFFICER
R. R. HELLER

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

This report and process sheet was typed in Headquarters from Miami TWX 12282.

10 JUL 1977

C/S

F.O. CHIEF

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

J. R. HENNESSEY
R. HABHARING
R. R. HELLER
L. H. SNITZAR

FORM 25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

15-45-31

FOR. FIELD USE ONLY

FOR HEADQUARTEREUSE ONLY

|                      |
| -------------------- |
| FIELD OFFICE         |
| R.NFO.CODE           |
| CASF NUMBER          |
| FORWARDED MO. DA. YR |
|                      |
|                      |
| X H I M              |
| 8 8 5 3 9            |
| 1 2 0 2 1            |
| 3612071              |

U SUBJECT AND ARA

Boycott of Chilean Newsprint/Anti-Allenda Propaganda

(Chile)

E. CONTACT (Namo, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. CHAVEZ

THE MACKEXHUY CORPORATION

3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard

Coral Gables, Mold

SOURC

INDIVIDUAL NO.

A 130680

ORGANIZATION NO.

A154531

INDIVIDUAL NO

ORGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUALNO.

ORGANIZATION NO

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

[X] INTERVIEW

[] TRIP REPORT

[] OTHER DOCUMENT

[] OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO

ALIEN OSS SOV INT

[X] R Heller

CASE OFFICER

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USSA ONLY EXCHANGES ICHECK ONEI

[] NO

[] TO USSR

[] FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENS

FIELD COMMENTS

C/S

BEMainsaring: jek

FORM 7-69 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

F.O. CHEF

BENA ENVARING

SECRET

07 DEC 1971

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

GROUP

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC

SO BRADING AND DECLASSIFICATI

(20-41)

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# 15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                    |                           |
| ------------------ | ------------------------- |
| FOR FIELD USE ONLY | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |

| FIELD OFFICE | P.E.O. CODE    | CASE NUMBER    | FORWARDED      | A                    | OCT      | RELEASED | EXTRA DISSEM RECORD | MO  | DA  | YR  | TYPE | ROT DISSEM MATED |     |
| ------------ | -------------- | -------------- | -------------- | -------------------- | -------- | -------- | ------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ---- | ---------------- | --- |
| 1 2 3 4      | 11 12 13 14 19 | 16 17 18 19 20 | 22 23 24 25 26 | 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 | 34 35 36 | 37 38 39 | 40 41 42 43 44      | 45  | 46  |     |      |                  |     |

**D. SUBJECT AND AREA**

Background Information on Reverend Roger Vekemans,
S. J., Alleged Left-Wing Priest Affiliated with the Christian Democratic Party
(Chile/Venezuela/Colombia)

**E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)**

Manual J. Chaves
THE MACKEMENT CORPORATION
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

**F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)**

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO:
A130620

**G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)**

ORGANIZATION NO:
A154531

INDIVIDUAL NO:

ORGANIZATION NO:

SUBJECT

1: SUPPLY
2: ECONOMIC
3: POL
4: MIL
5: SCI
6: GEN
AREA

SUPPLIED
BY OTHER
AGENCIES
OTHER MISC
COMBINED WITH

INSUFFICIENT
INTEREST

GRAPHICS, MAPS,
PUBLICATIONS,
REPORTS, OTHER

**H. METHOD OF COLLECTION**

* [x] INTERVIEW
* [ ] TRIP REPORT
* [ ] OTHER DOCUMENT
* [ ] OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO ALIEN OSS SOV INT CASE OFFICER HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS:

ATTACHED MATERIAL FOR RETENTION.

C/S

JFGleichaof/csa JEGLEICHAVF

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CASE OFFICER

SECRET

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET
(When Filled In)

15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE | A. REQ. COUF   | C. CASE NUMBER |
| ------------ | -------------- | -------------- |
| 1            | 11 12 13 14 15 | 16 17 18 19 20 |
| 2            |                |                |
| 3            |                |                |
| 4            |                |                |

| FORWARDED MO. | DA  | YR  |     |     |
| ------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 22            | 23  | 24  | 25  | 26  |

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

Chile: The Threat of a New Cuba

(Chile)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chaves
THE MACKENIUT CORPORATION
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

| INDIVIDUAL NO. | 48  | TYPE DO-E |
| -------------- | --- | --------- |
| H130680        |     |           |

|GRAPHICS, MAPS PUBLICATIONS REPORTS, OTHER|

| DISSEM RATED |     |
| ------------ | --- |

|ORGANIZATION NO.|

|EXTRA DISSEM RECORD|
| MO | DA | YR |

| 1. SUFFICIENTLY |
| 2. WELL |
| 3. GENERAL |
| 4. DATA SUPPLIED BY OTHER AGENCIES |
| 5. OTHER MISC |
| 6. INSUFFICIENT INTEREST |

INDIVIDUAL NO.

|ORGANIZATION NO.|

|INDIVIDUAL NO.|

|ORGANIZATION NO.|

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

[ ] INTERVIEW
[ ] TRIP REPORT
[X] OTHER DOCUMENT
[ ] OTHER (specify below)

| EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM |     |
| ------------------------- | --- |

| USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE) |     |
| ------------------------------- | --- |
| [ ] NO                          |     |
| [ ] TO USSR                     |     |
| [ ] PROMUSSR                    |     |

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

| DIRECTED TO | ALIEN    | OSS | SOV | INT | CASE OFFICER |
| ----------- | -------- | --- | --- | --- | ------------ |
| X           | Fileller |     |     |     |              |

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS

Material for retention.

![drawing of arrows, indicating file paths: PLEX, CASZ, Z-REF, FILES]

16 DEC 1970

C/S

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
7-69

P.O. CHIEF

JEGLOICHAUF/ccs

CASE OFFICER

JEGLEICHAUP

SECRET

DIVISION/STAFF/OPSK

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DR
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# 15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                    |     |                           |
| ------------------ | --- | ------------------------- |
| FOR FIELD USE ONLY |     | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |

| A. FIELD OFFICE     | B. REQ. CODE        | C. CASE NUMBER      |
| ------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------- |
| ![image of numbers] | ![image of numbers] | ![image of numbers] |

| D. SUBJECT AND AREA                               |     |
| ------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| Concern re Security of LAN-Chile Aircraft (Chile) |     |

| E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)                                               |     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| Manuel J. Chaves THE MACKLEBUT CORPORATION 3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Coral Gables, Florida |     |

| F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address) |     |
| ---------------------------------------------- | --- |
| ![image of source]                             |     |

| G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address) |     |
| -------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| ![image of sub-source]                             |     |

| H. METHOD OF COLLECTION                   |                                                |
| ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| * Interview                               | ![image of trip report] TRIP REPORT            |
| ![image of other document] OTHER DOCUMENT | ![image of other option] OTHER (specify below) |

| DIRECTED TO      |              |
| ---------------- | ------------ |
| ALIEN OSS SOVINT | CASE OFFICER |
| X                | Rholler      |

FIELD COMMENTS

| I. INDIVIDUAL NO.   |     |
| ------------------- | --- |
| ![image of numbers] |     |

| J. ORGANIZATION NO. |     |
| ------------------- | --- |
| ![image of numbers] |     |

| K. ORGANIZATION NO. |     |
| ------------------- | --- |
| ![image of numbers] |     |

| L. INDIVIDUAL NO.   |     |
| ------------------- | --- |
| ![image of numbers] |     |

| M. ORGANIZATION NO. |     |
| ------------------- | --- |
| ![image of numbers] |     |

| EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM |     |
| ------------------------- | --- |
|                           |     |

| USSA ONLY - EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE) |     |
| --------------------------------- | --- |
| NO                                |     |
| TO USSA                           |     |
| FROM USSR                         |     |

| RESPONSIBLE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |     |
| ------------------------------------ | --- |
|                                      |     |

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

![A hand-drawn diagram]

CASE OFFICER

CASE

Z-REF

FILES

15 DEC 1970

C/S F.O. CHIEF CASE OFFICER DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

JFGLelchaufl/css JFGLelchaup

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
7-69

SECRET

GROUP I EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(20-411)

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                        |                  |                |                |
| ---------------------- | ---------------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| **FOR FIELD USE ONLY** |                  |                |                |
| A. FIELD OFFICE        | B. REPORT NUMBER | C. REO CODE    | D. CASE NUMBER |
|                        |                  |                |                |
| 1  2  3  4  5  6       | 7  8  9  10      | 11 12 13 14 15 | 16 17 18 19 20 |


F. SUBJECT AND AREA

LAN-Chile Officials Desire Background Checks on Employees to Determine Anti-Communist Sentiments

(Chile)

G. CONTACT (Name, title, Organization, Address)

Henry I. Sayler, Development Manager

THE MACKENBOT CORPORATION

300 Bird Road

Coral Cables, Florida


H. PROJECT (Name title Organization, Address)

Same


I. SUB SOURCE (Name, title, Organization, Address)


J. REPORT NO.

A154530

K. PUBLICATION NO.

A154531

|                                        |                              |                                    |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| L. METHOD OF COLLECTION                | M. EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM | N. USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE) |
| Interview                              | Trip Report                  | NO                                 |
| Other Documents                        | Other (specify below)        | TO USSR                            |
|                                        |                              | FROM USSR                          |
|                                        |                              |                                    |
| O. RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |                              |                                    |


FIELD COMMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

AIR FORCE REPORT

![signature]

2 DEC 1970

C/S - HLopez/csa

F.O. Chief - JFGELELCHAUF

Case Officer

Division/Staff/Desk - 4

FORM 3-66 25

Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET
(When Filled In)

15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE    | REPORT NUMBER    | REQ. CODE   | CASE NUMBER    |
| --------------- | ---------------- | ----------- | -------------- |
| ![Field Office] | ![Report Number] | ![Req Code] | ![Case Number] |

SUBJECT AND AREA

Key Positions in LAN-Chile Airline Given to
Allende Regice Sympathizers

(Chile)

| G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address) | INDIVIDUAL NO. |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Henry I. Stayler, Development Manager           | A.15453-0      |
| THE MACKLENUT CORPORATION                       |                |
| 200 Bird Road                                   |                |
| Coral Gables, Florida                           |                |

SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address) INDIVIDUAL NO.

|---|---|
| Mr. Carlos Chaves, Station Manager | A.15825.4 |
| LAN-CHILE AIRLINES |
| Miami International Airport |
| Miami, Florida | A. 29952 |

METHOD OF COLLECTION EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

Interview US ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

Trip Report NO

Other Document TO USSR

Other (specify below) FROM USSR

FIELD COMMENTS HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

AIR FORCE REPORT

Please direct to
International Division
(Holler)

FLEX

CASE

X-REF K.D.

2 DEC 1970

C/5 F.O. Chief Case Officer Division/Staff/Desk

HLopez/ess JFELEICHAUP

FORM 366 25 Obsolete previous editions

SECRET (20-41)

20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE | REPORT NUMBER | REG CODE | CASE NUMBER | RECEIVED | RELEASED |
| ------------ | ------------- | -------- | ----------- | -------- | -------- |
| XX           |               |          |             | XX       |          |

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Status of Laroase D. ("Vizzy") Bacc
(Dominican Republic)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Michael J. Charles
The MacKlehunt Corporation
2200 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

Individual No. A130680

Organization No. A15453

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION?

Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify below)

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY: EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS

Please direct to: 088

Copy passed to JACOBRA Locally.

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

![signature of FLEX]

FLEX

CASE

X-REF

FILES

19 NOV 1970

C/S

JFleichauf/caa

Obsolete previous
editions

F.O. Chief

JFleichauf

Case Officer

Division/Staff/Desk

FORM 3-66 -25

SECRET

4

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

# 15-45-31

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

| FOR FIELD USE ONLY | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |
| ------------------ | ------------------------- |
![table image]

*XNIM*

## List of Suspects of Subversive Activities

(Persons)

| E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address) | INDIVIDUAL NO. | J. TYPE 00-E |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------ |
| Daniel J. Chavez, Jr.                           | *N/30680*      |              |
| **THE MACKENZIE CORPORATION**                   |                |              |
| 1280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard                    |                |              |
| Coral Gables, Florida                           |                |              |

| F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address) | ORGANIZATION NO. | K. SUBJECT AREA * |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
| ![source]                                      | A154531          | GRAPHICS, MAPS    |
PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHERS

| G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address) | INDIVIDUAL NO. |
| -------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |


| H. METHOD OF COLLECTION | L. EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM     | M. RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |
| ----------------------- | -------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| * INTERVIEW             | USSR ONLY EXCHANGES: (CHECK ONE) |                                        |
| TRIP REPORT             | NO                               |                                        |
| OTHER DOCUMENT          | TO USSR                          |                                        |
| OTHER (specify below)   | FROM USSR                        |                                        |

DIRECTED TO: X | ALIEN OSS SOV INT. | CASE OFFICER | HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS:

Supplemental to:
00A(8) 322/26267-70

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY control used per request of source for protection.

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

| C/S               | F.O. CHIEF  | CASE OFFICER | DIVISION/STAFF/DESK |
| ----------------- | ----------- | ------------ | ------------------- |
| JFGLoletchanfiyas | JPGLEICHAUP |              |                     |

FORM 7-69 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS | SECRET | GROUP 1 EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION | 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY 15-45-31

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

| A. FIELD OFFICE      | B. REG. CODE      | C. CASE NUMBER      |
| -------------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |
| ![Field Office data] | ![Reg. Code data] | ![Case Number data] |

| FORWARDED MO. DA. | A.      | J.O.         |
| ----------------- | ------- | ------------ |
| ![Forwarded data] | ![Data] | ![J.O. Data] |

## SUBJECT AND AREA

Attempt to Establish Intelligence Apparatus in US

(Panama)

## CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chavez, Jr.
THE HACKENHUT CORPORATION
8280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Cables, Florida

INDIVIDUAL NO.

A130680

ORGANIZATION NO.

A154531

INDIVIDUAL NO.

EXTRA DISSEM RECORD

NOT DISSEM NATED

GRAPHICS, MAPS, PUBLICATIONS, REPORTS, OTHER

COMBINED

INSUFFICIENT INTEREST

## SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

ORGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

## H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   [x] INTERVIEW
*   [] TRIP REPORT
*   [] OTHER DOCUMENT
*   [] OTHER (specify below)

| EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM | USSR ONLY EXCHANGES. (CHECK ONE) | RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |
| ------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
|                           | [] NO [] TO USSR [] FROM USSR    |                                     |

DIRECTED TO

*   [] ALIEN [] OSS [x] SOV [] INT

CASE OFFICER

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

![Headquarters Comments]

CASE

X-REF

FILES

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

10 SEP 1970

C/S

JFGleichauf/eas

F.O. CHIEF

JFGLEICHAUF

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

FORM 7-69 25

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1 EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4 (20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET
(When Filled In)

15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

![table for field use only]![table for headquarters use only]

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

El Mercurio Fear of Urban Terrorism/Security Measures
(Chile)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chavez, Jr.
THE MACKENGUT CORPORATION
3200 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

F. SOURCE

INDIVIDUAL NO.
A130680

ORGANIZATION NO.
A154531

G. SUBSOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   INTERVIEW
*   OTHER DOCUMENT
*   TRIP REPORT
*   OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO ALIEN 039 GOV INT

*   CASE OFFICER
    RiHeller

FIELD COMMENTS

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM
USER ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

*   NO
*   TO USSR
*   FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FLEX

CASE

X-REF

FILES

C/S F.O. CHIEF
JFGleichauf/esa JEGLEICHAUF 10 SEP 1970

FORM 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS CASE OFFICER DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN- (20-41)
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|         FOR FIELD USE ONLY          | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |                |                       |                      |                     |                      |
| :---------------------------------: | :-----------------------: | -------------- | --------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------- | -------------------- |
|            FIELD OFFICE             |       B. REQ. CODE        | C. CASE NUMBER | FORWARDED MO. DA. YR. | REPORT A B C         | EXTRA DISSEM RECORD | RELEASED MO. DA. YR. |
|                                     |      11 12 13 14 15       | 16 17 18 19 20 | 22 23 24 25 26        | 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 | 34 35 36 37 38 39   | 40 41 42 43 44 45    |
| ![checkbox] ![checkbox] ![checkbox] |                           | `08310`        | `2521470`             |                      |                     |                      |

D. SUBJECT AND AREA

## Alessandri Leading in Election Preference/Tour of
## Urban Terrorism
(Chile)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

## Manual J. Chaves
The Hackenmut Corporation
3200 Ponce de Leon Boulevard,
Coral Gables, Florida

F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

![checkbox] INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT

OTHER DOCUMENT

OTHER (specify below)

DIRECTED TO ALIEN OSS DOV INT CASE OFFICER

![checkbox] Riiholler

FIELD COMMENTS

INDIVIDUAL NO.

`H-130680`

ORGANIZATION NO.

`D-15431`

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USER ONLY
EXCHANGES
(CHECK ONE)

NO
TO USER

FROM USSR

46. TYPE OF
    GRAPHICS, MAPS

PUBLICATIONS,
REPORTS

47. 48. SUBJECT

49. AREA

5. COMBINED WITH

6. INSUFFICIENT
   INTEREST

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

Report prepared in Headquarters from
HIM THX 2008.

LEX

CASE

X-REF

FILES

02 SEP 1380

C/S F.O. CHIEF CASE OFFICER DIVISION/STAFF/DESK

JFGleichauf JFGleichauf Lohegenstein for Heller Lunitser

FORM
7-69
25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| FIELD OFFICE | R. AFQ. CODE | CASE NUMBER | FORWARDED   | RELEASED |
| ------------ | ------------ | ----------- | ----------- | -------- |
| XMTH         | 08070        | 2386770     | 12 AUG 1970 |          |

SUBJECT AND AREA
Deterioration of Internal Security Leads to Increase
in Private Security Operations

(Colombia)

CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization Address)

Manuel J. Chaves, Jr.
THE MACKENHUT CORPORATION
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

METHOD OF COLLECTION

* INTERVIEW

TRIP REPORT
OTHER DOCUMENT OTHER

DIRECTED TO
ALIEN OSS SOV INT
X Kieller

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

![signature]

C/S F.O. CHIEF CASE OFFICER DIVISION/STAFF DESK

JFGleichauf/cas JFGleichauf

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION
4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

# PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                 | FOR FIELD USE ONLY |                | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |
| --------------- | ------------------ | -------------- | ------------------------- |
| A. FIELD OFFICE | B. RFG. CODE       | C. CASE NUMBER | FORWARDED                 |
|                 | 11 12 13 14        | 16 17 18 19 20 | MO. DA. YR                |
|                 |                    |                | 22 23 24 25 26            |

O. SUBJECT AND AREA

Lack of Industrial and Commercial Security Problems/
Confidence in Government
(Ecuador)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chaves, Jr.
THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

INDIVIDUAL.NO.
A-130680

ORGANIZATION. NO.
A154531

INDIVIDUAL NO.

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   INTERVIEW

☐ OTHER DOCUMENT

DIRECTED TO:

ALIEN, OSS SOV INT

FIELD COMMENTS

☐ TRIP REPORT

☐ OTHER (specify below)

CASE OFFICER

RIeller

|                      | TYPE OOR |               |
| -------------------- | -------- | ------------- |
| EXTRA DISTRIB RECORD | MO DA YR |               |
|                      |          | SUBJECT       |
|                      |          | AREA          |
|                      |          | DISSEM. NATED |
|                      |          |               |
|                      |          |               |
|                      |          |               |
|                      |          |               |

EVALUATION
REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY
EXCHANGES
(CHECK ONE!)

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC
REQUIREMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FLEX
CASE
X-REF
FILES

12 AUG 1970

C/S

JPGleichauf/ess

F.O. CHIEF

JPCLEICHAUF

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION/STAFF/DESK.

FORM 25. USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

7-63

SECRET

GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN-
GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

(20-41)

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                                                                                                                        |                               |                                  |                                     |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **FOR FIELD USE ONLY**                                                                                                 | **FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY** |                                  |                                     |
| FIELD OFFICE                                                                                                           | REQ. CODF                     |                                  |                                     |
| K H                                                                                                                    |                               |                                  |                                     |
| SUBJECT AND AREA                                                                                                       | FORWARDED                     |                                  |                                     |
|                                                                                                                        | MO.  DA.  YR.                 |                                  |                                     |
| Expectation of Allende Victory/Fear of Industrial Violence/Interest in Developing Industrial Security Measures (Chile) |                               |                                  |                                     |
| CONTACT (Name. Title, Organization, Address)                                                                           | INDIVIDUAL NO.                |                                  |                                     |
| Manuel J. Chaves, Jr.                                                                                                  | H130680                       |                                  |                                     |
| THE MACKENIUT CORPORATION                                                                                              | ORGANIZATION NO.              |                                  |                                     |
| 3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard                                                                                           | 4157531                       |                                  |                                     |
| Coral Cables, Florida                                                                                                  | INDIVIDUAL NO.                |                                  |                                     |
| SOURCE (Name. Title, Organization, Address)                                                                            | SUBJECT AREA                  |                                  |                                     |
| Same                                                                                                                   |                               |                                  |                                     |
| SUB-SOURCE (Name. Title, Organization, Address)                                                                        | ORGANIZATION NO.              |                                  |                                     |
|                                                                                                                        | INDIVIDUAL NO.                |                                  |                                     |
|                                                                                                                        | ORGANIZATION NO.              |                                  |                                     |
| METHOD OF COLLECTION                                                                                                   | EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM     | USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE): | RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS |
| INTERVIEW                                                                                                              |                               | NO                               |                                     |
| TRIP REPORT                                                                                                            |                               | TO USSR                          |                                     |
| OTHER DOCUMENT                                                                                                         | OTHER (specify below):        | FROMUSSR                         |                                     |
| ALIEN OSS SOV INT                                                                                                      | CASE OFFICER:                 |                                  |                                     |
| DIRECTED TO                                                                                                            | HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS:        |                                  |                                     |
| Fileller                                                                                                               |                               |                                  |                                     |
| FIELD COMMENTS:                                                                                                        |                               |                                  |                                     |
|                                                                                                                        | 28 JUL 1970                   |                                  |                                     |

C/S JFGLelchauf/ess F.O. CHIEF JFGLelchauf

FORM 7-69 25 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1 EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

15-45-31

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

A. FIELD OFFICE

B. REQ. CODE

C. CASE NUMBER

MO.
REPORT NO.

![table columns 1-10 are empty]

![table columns 11-15 is empty]

![table columns 16-20 is empty]

07150

![table columns 27-33 is empty]

D. SUBJECT AND AREA:

Background on Carlos Lemos

(Brasil)

E. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chaves, Jr.

THE MACKENHOUT CORPORATION
3200 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

F. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

![empty cell]

G. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

![empty cell]

H. METHOD OF COLLECTION:

* Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify below)

DIRECTED TO: ALIEN OSS SOV INT

Case Officer:
RHellor

FIELD COMMENTS

![empty cell]

EXTRA DISSEM. RECORD

RELEASED

MO.

DA.

![table columns 37-44 is empty]

TYPE OO-E

GRAPHICS MAPS

PUBLICATIONS REPORTS, OTHER

SUBJECT

NOT DISSEM. NATED

![table columns 47-52 is empty]

![table columns 53-56 is empty]

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

(USE ONLY IF EXCHANGES CHECK ONE)

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

TO USSR

TO USER

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

20 JUL 1970

![diagram showing FLEX, CASZ, X-REF, F1CS]

C.S.

F.O. CHIEF

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION/STAFF DESK

JFGleichauf/cas

JPGLEICHAUF

![form 25]

USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN- GRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                        |                        |                   |                      |                               |
| ---------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| **FOR FIELD USE ONLY** |                        |                   |                      | **FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY** |
| A. FIELD OFFICE        | B. REPORT NUMBER       | C. REC. CODE      | D. CASE NUMBER       | E. RECEIVED                   |
| ![Field Office Table]  | ![Report Number Table] | ![Rec Code Table] | ![Case Number Table] | ![Received Table]             |
| X M I M                |                        | X 403             |                      | 101167                        |

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Probable Soviet Mi-10 Helicopter at Medellin Airfield

(Colombia)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chavez, Jr.
THE WAQ ENHUT CORPORATION
3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Gables, Florida

H. SOURCE (Name, Time, Organization, Address)

Sama

I. SUB SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

*   Interview
*   Other (specify below)

*   Trip Report

FIELD COMMENTS

Direct to: International Div
(Rheller)

During our interview which resulted in DOB 321/06420-70. Mr. Chavez did not mention that he had a photo of the Soviet helicopter he saw in Colombia. He remembered that he had the attached photo when we were conducting a subsequent interview.

![Headquarters Comments Table]

08 APR 1970

FLEX

CASE

X-PER

FILES

C/S JFHennessy/css F.O. Chief JFGLEICHAUF Case Officer Division/Staff/Desk

FORM 25 Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

4

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET
(When Filled In)

15-45-31

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

| A. FIELD OFFICE | B. REPORT NUMBER | C. REC. CODE | D. CASE NUMBER | E. RECEIVED | F. REPORT NO. | G. RELEASED |
| :-------------: | :--------------: | :----------: | :------------: | :---------: | :-----------: | :---------: |
|      X M H      |                  |              |                |   X 03310   |    064207     |             |

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Presidential Elections/Student Riots at National
University/Maintenance Problems with Soviet Supplied
Trolley Care and Jeeps/Huge Soviet Helicopter to be
Used During Construction of Pipeline/Recent Insurency

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address): (Colombia)

INDIVIDUAL NO.: A-130640

Manuel J. Chavez, Jr.

THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION

3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard
Coral Cables, Florida

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address):

ORGANIZATION NO.: A 1545-31

Same

I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address):

ORGANIZATION NO.:

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

XXX Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify below)

ORGANIZATION NO.:

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)
NO
TO USSR
FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS:

08 APR 1970

FIELD COMMENTS:

Please direct to:

International Division (Rieller)

C/S JFHennessey/css

F.Q. Chief JFGEEICHAUF

Case Officer

Division/Staff/Desk

FORM 25 3-66
Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

FLEX

CASE

X-REF

FILES M

4
(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | FOR FIELD USE ONLY     |                           |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------- |
| A. FIELD OFFICE                                                                                                                                                                                                            | B. REPORT NUMBER       | C. REQ. CODE              |
| X M I M                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |                        |                           |
| D. CASE NUMBER                                                                                                                                                                                                             | E. RECEIVED            |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | MO. DA.                |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | 03 27 0                |                           |
| F. SUBJECT AND AREA                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                        | FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                        |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |                        |                           |
| Increased Income Tax to Help Educational System/Develop-ment of Oil Field in the Northeast/Construction of Oil Pipeline/Foreign Squeeze Being Paid for Concessions/ Rumored Danger of Nationalization of Forelin Holdin, s |                        |                           |
| G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address) (Leusdor)                                                                                                                                                                  |                        |                           |
| Manuel J. Chaver, Jr.                                                                                                                                                                                                      | INDIVIDUAL NO          |                           |
| THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION                                                                                                                                                                                                  | A 130680               |                           |
| 3280 Ponce de Leon Boulevard Coral Cables, Florida                                                                                                                                                                         |                        |                           |
| H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)                                                                                                                                                                             |                        |                           |
| Same                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | ORGANIZATION NO        |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | A 151531               |                           |
| I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)                                                                                                                                                                         |                        |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                                            | INDIVIDUAL NO          |                           |
| J. METHOD OF COLLECTION                                                                                                                                                                                                    | ORGANIZATION NO        |                           |
| Interview                                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Trip Report            |                           |
| Other Document                                                                                                                                                                                                             | Other (specify below). |                           |
| FIELD COMMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                             | HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS  |                           |
| Direct to International Division (Rheller)                                                                                                                                                                                 | 05 APR 1970            |                           |


FLEX

CASE

X-REF

FILES

C/S JF!lennessey/css

F.O. Chief JFGLEICHAUE

Case Officer

Division Sral: Casa

FORM 25 3-66 Obsolete pravίους editions

SECRET

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET

(When Filled-In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

![Form with fields for office, report number, code, case number, received date, and subject area information.]

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

President Velasco Suffers Ill Health

(Ecuador)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Manuel J. Chavez, Jr.
The Wackenhut Corporation
3200 Ponce de Leon Blvd.
Coral Gables, Florida

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview Trip Report

Other Document Other (specify below)

FIELD COMMENTS

Please direct to:
Int'l Div (Feller)

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

0 9 APR 1970

![Handwritten text: FLEX, CASE, X-REP, FILES]

C/S F.O. Chief Case Officer Division/Staff/Desk

JFHeincesey: pmy JFGLZICHAVF

FORM 25 Obsolete previous SECRET (20-41)
3-66 editions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

## PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

| A. FIELD OFFICE | B. REPORT NUMBER | C.   | D. CASE NUMBER | E. RECEIVED | F.   | G.  | H.  | I.  | U.  |
| --------------- | ---------------- | ---- | -------------- | ----------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| X M I           | 07015            | 1031 |                |             | 6120 |     |     |     |     |

**P. SUBJECT AND AREA**

Panamanian National, Julion NINO Ruiz, Deported from
El Salvador/Limited Biographics
(Panama/El Salvador/Chile)

**G. CONTACT**

Henry I. Seyler, Development Manager
THE WACKENHUT CORPORATION
300 Bird Road
Coral Cables, Florida 5142050

**H. SOURCE**

Some

**I. SUB SOURCE**

**J. METHOD OF COLLECTION**

Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify below)

**FIELD COMMENTS**

ATTN: OSS

Please advise if this information is of interest. These type of incidents occur occasionally and we can obtain detailed information if desired.

FLEX

CASE

X-REF

FILES

C/S CCGuerrero/css

F.O. Case Officer GFLEICHAUF Division/Staff/Desk

FORM 25
Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

4 (20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS F15-45-31

FOR FIELD USE ONLY FOR MEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

![Form section A through E]

## SUBJECT AND AREA

Growing Disharmony Between the Government and Business Community

(Colombia)

![Form section G through I]

Ceorge Wackenbut, President

MACKENHUT SERVICES INC.

3280 Ponce De Leon Blvd.

Coral Gables, Florida

![Form section J through L]

*Interview

![Form Field Comments]

C/S GGuartero:pu

F.O. Chief JPGLEICHAUP

Division/Staff: Paghitzer

FORM 25 3-66 Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

3

(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Colombia REPORT NO OC-3-321/37763-67

SUBJECT Growing Disharmony between the DATE DISTR. 10 Jan 69
Government and Business Community NO. PAGES 1

REFERENCES CIRL C-DC7-53900

DATE OF INFO. 4 Dec 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACO. Colombia = 4 Dec 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US national, official of a US firm engaged in providing commercial services to business firms and industries. He travels frequently and has contacts among business executives and government officials.

[This report was developed by an APNIN Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. During a recent business trip to Colombia I had occasion to visit and converse with business executives, owners of industrial firms and government officials. Through conversation with such I gained the information presented below.

2. The majority of the business community, both big and small businesses, is not in complete harmony with the government of President Carlos Lieras. Most business executives confirm that under the previous Conservative Party administration there was a stimulation of interest in foreign investment, a factor which is causing the current administration immense problems due to restrictive legislation on the percentage of capital which may be removed from the country. It is the consensus of the business community that this law will be changed within the next eight months, as a result of pressure by the business community upon the government.

3. At the present time there is much discontent among owners of private business firms as well as among the employees about a proposed new law. Current legislation requires that employers place in a fund a certain percentage of employees earnings, which will be returned to the employee upon retirement or termination of employment. Under this arrangement the employer may make use of the money for investments or development of the firm or industry. The reason for the discontent is that the government is attempting to pass a law requiring all business firms and industries to pay, on a monthly basis to the government, the money received from the employees. Severance or retirement pay of an employee will then become a responsibility of the government. The business community is adamantly against this legislation because it will restrict much of business operation. Employees are equally against the legislation because they feel once the government collects the money it will be appropriated for other purposes and never returned to the people.

4. The government has stated that the money collected will be used for development of low and middle class housing, and rents collected from these developments will be placed in a fund for the payment of severance and retirement benefits.

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

U YES C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L S YES

The dissemination of this document is limited to U.S. personnel and agencies only, and release to those senior officials of foreign governments and staffs specifically approved for access to CONFIDENTIAL information.
This document was prepared by an automatic process and may contain errors. Its content is suitable for intelligence use, in accordance with paragraph 9 of DCDD 17. It may be historical in nature and of limited value. The reproduction of this publication in whole or in part by individuals or private organizations is not permitted. Those participating in the production of Natural Intelligence SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED ITS CONFIRMERS or be quoted as authority to non- U. S. Government personnel. including consultants, under a contract with the U. S. Government.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS F-15-45-31

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

A. FIELD OFFICE

B: REPORT NUMBER

CIREO: CODE

D. CASE NUMBER

E. RECEIVED

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

REPORT NO.

OTHER

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Factors Bearing on the Economic and Political Front/
Assessment of Insurgent Capability

(Ecuador)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

George Wackenhut, President
Wackenhut Services, Inc.
3280 Ponce de Leon Blvd.
Coral Gables, Florida

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.
515453

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO.

I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify below)

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

FIELD COMMENTS

C/S

F.O. Chief
JFGLEICHAUF

Case Officer

Division/Staff Dertzor

FORM 25
3-66
GOGuerreroresá
Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

3
(20-41)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY Ecuador

REPORT NO. 00-D-321/37019-67

SUBJECT Factors Bearing on the Economic and Political Front/Assessment of Insurgent Capability

DATE DISTR 10 Jan 68

NO PAGES 1

DATE OF INFO. Dec 67 and earlier

REFERENCES CTRL C-EC7-53900
(356)

PLACE & DATE ACQ Ecuador/4 Dec 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US national, official of a US firm engaged in providing commercial services to private industry and government. He travels frequently and has contacts among business executives and government officials.

[This report was developed by an AFRIN Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. During a recent business trip to Ecuador I had occasion to visit and converse with several business executives and government officials. Through conversation with business colleagues I gained the information presented below.

2. The business community is in complete harmony with the administration of President Otto Arocemena Gomez. The efforts of the present government to encourage foreign business investment is considered to be the biggest plus on the side of the current administration. Evidence of the efforts made by the government and the success achieved is demonstrated by the Joint venture of two major oil companies, Texaco and Gulf, in drilling for new oil deposits. Agreements were reached between the government and the oil companies for prospective drilling in an area northeast of Quito, approximately 30 minutes by helicopter. The first four holes resulted in four oil producing wells. This strike is considered the richest since the Venezuelan strike. The government is presently being flooded with requests for permits to continue oil explorations in the area. The requests are coming from US, Japanese and West German firms.

3. President Arosemena is in firm control of the Army, and all elements of his political machine. He would like very much to continue as President. The desire of Arosemena to continue as President takes on more meaning when consideration is given to the possibility that Jose Maria Velasco Ibarra may again be elected President. The business community does not look favorably on this possibility but most businessmen are quick to concede that Velasco has the inside track at this time.

4. There is no evidence of insurgent capability by any group at the present time. Guerrilla activity is practically nonexistent and is not considered a problem area for the Army of the government.

-end-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# UNCLASSIFIED

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

INTELLIGENCE EVALUATION REPORT

TO: (For Collection Manager's Use)

X-Mimi Hall

THRU:

IR NUMBER

321/37919/67

SUBJECT: Factors Bearing on Economic and Political Event

TARGET COUNTRY:

EC

IR DATE

680116

DATE IR RECD BY ADDRESSEE

680117

DATE IR RECD BY EVALUATOR

9 Feb '68

IR ORIGINATOR

356

NOTE TO EVALUATOR: Do not complete this evaluation unless you have responsibility for subject matter in the Report. Write appropriate number in boxes below:

A. USABILITY

1. GREAT

2. MODERATE

3. SLIGHT

4. NONE (See Remarks)

B. VALIDITY

1. PROBABLY TRUE

2. CANNOT JUDGE

3. DOUBTFUL (See Remarks)

C. HOW MUCH OF THIS INFORMATION IS BEING REPORTED FOR THE FIRST TIME

1. ALL

2. MOST

3. SOME

4. NONE

D. WAS REPORT RECEIVED BY REQUIREMENT SUSPENSE DATE

1. YES

2. NO

3. NOT APPLICABLE

E. REASON FOR EVALUATION

1. SICR OR DIRM III

2. REQUEST BY COLLECTOR

3. SELECTION BY COLLECTION MANAGER

4. INITIATIVE

F. IF REPORT WAS IN RESPONSE TO A SICR OR DIRM III ITEM, IT SATISFIED REQUIREMENT

1. COMPLETELY

2. PARTIALLY

3. NOT AT ALL

REMARKS

Use this space to amplify responses checked above. Comment, when appropriate, how reporting could be improved, how the information was or will be used, include suggestions for follow-up.

This report will serve as a worthwhile addition to our data base for Ecuador.

![text describing the marks in the paper]

EVALUATOR'S ORGANIZATION

DIAAP-GAI

DATE EVALUATED

23 Feb '68

NAME OF EVALUATOR

Jon Heggan (IL+.)

DD FORM 1480

1 APR 66

PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE.

U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1967-271-072


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

PROCESS SHEET FOR DOMESTIC CONTACT SERVICE COLLECTIONS F-15-NS-31

FOR FIELD USE ONLY

A. FIELD OFFICE

XMIMI

B. REPORT NUMBER

C. REQ. CODE

D. CASE NUMBER

E. RECEIVED

FOR HEADQUARTERS USE ONLY

1. REPORT ORIGIN

Mo. DA. YR.

12227

F. SUBJECT AND AREA

Guerrilla Operations
(Colombia)

G. CONTACT (Name, Title, Organization, Address)
George WACKENHUT, President
Wackenhut Services, Inc.
8280 Ponce de Leon Blvd
Coral Gables, Florida B-67-353

H. SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

Same

INDIVIDUAL NO.

ORGANIZATION NO. S 154531

INDIVIDUAL NO.

RELEASED

EXTRA DISSEM. RECORD

SUBJECT

AREA

I. SUB-SOURCE (Name, Title, Organization, Address)

ORGANIZATION NO.

INDIVIDUAL NO.

49. TYPE 00.E

GRAPHICS, MAPS
PUBLICATIONS
REPORTS, OTHER

J. METHOD OF COLLECTION

Interview

Trip Report

Other Document

Other (specify below)

EVALUATION REQUESTED FROM

USSR ONLY EXCHANGES (CHECK ONE)

NO

TO USSR

FROM USSR

RESPONSIVE TO SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS

IRS

FIELD COMMENTS

HEADQUARTERS COMMENTS

C/S
CCGuerrero;ms

F.O. Chief
JFCleichauf

Case Officer

Divisional Distrib. Desig

FORM 25 3-66
Obsolete previous editions

SECRET

(20-41)

![group 1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Sect. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Colombia REPORT NO. 00-B-321/37619-67

SUBJECT Guerrilla Operations DATE DISTR. 2 Jan 68

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES CIRL: C-DC7-59550

(356)

DATE OF INFO.. 4 Dec 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ Colombia - 4 Dec 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US national, official of a US firm engaged in providing services to industry and business firms. He travels frequently and has contacts among business executives and government officials in several foreign countries.

[This report was developed by an AFNIN Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. During a recent business trip to Colombia I had occasion to visit and converse with several business executives and government officials. Through such conversations I gained the information presented below.

2. Guerrilla activity within the country is presently confined to the following geographical locations. The Army of National Liberation (ELN) is operating in Departemento Santander Del Sur at a point nearest the Venezuelan border. This base of operations provides the group with numerous escape routes to Venezuela in cases of hot pursuit when engaged by elements of the Army. It also provides case of operations in the exchange of necessities. There is considerable traffic in this area and all attributed to the ELN.

3. The leader of ELN is Fabio Vazquez Castano. He is the same person who hijacked a Colombian airliner and forced the pilot to fly him to Cuba. Vazquez. Ia presently in Cuba, Victor Medina Moron is second in command, and is presently running the operations of the group. The ELN is dedicated to and followers of the Peking Line...

4. The Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) is presently operating along the borders of the Departamentos of Tolima and Huila in the Intendencia of Caqueta. The leader of this group is Manuel Morulanda, better known as "Tiro Fijo". This group is dedicated to and followers of the Moscow ling.

5. All members of ELN and FARC are known to be Colombian nationals. The leaders of each organization have been trained in Cuba or in the Soviet Union.

6. Money and necessities for the ELN groups is being furnished by Cuba. Support for FARC is unknown. Numerous weapons have been left behind by FARC after engagements with the Army. These weapons are of Czech origin. However, most of the weapons in use by ELN and FARC have been acquired as a result of engagements with the Army.

INFORMATION REPORT

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 ol DC10 1/7 it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

CONTROLLED DISSEM                                   NO DISSEM ABROAD

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L                                    OOB-321/37619-67

7.  There is a new group, name unknown, operating in Los Altos Del Since in the northwest coast near the town of Sincelejo. This group is of no consequence and the Army has it under control. In the case of ELN and FARC the Army is usually aware of their whereabouts but cannot claim to have them under control.

-end-

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)