# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

9 May 1963

CONTACT REPORT

WUBRINY - General

1. WUBRINY/1 called on the sterile line from Washington at 1430 hours to discuss the subject covered below.

2. Tire Recap: WUBRINY/1 said that he had just heard from the Mohawk people who will be in New York the week of 20 May and has stated that they are now prepared to go ahead investing some $30,000 of their own money in a tire recap plant in Greece. WUBRINY/1 will give us more details as he has them and feels that Lodi will also come in with some money and that WUSALINE can also, if this is desired or needed.

3. FAURRINY/4: WUBRINY/1 said that Luis Borme is briefed him in detail on the difficulties that apparently have built up regarding WUBKINY/4's suspicisons and said that he plans to have RECKREY devote himself to this wonest. WUBRINY/1 said that if this is as serious as Mr. Browne appears to believe it may be necessary to isolate him elsewhere in the WITBRINY Interests, such as the partnership, and taper him off for termination at the end of his six months. WUBRINY/1 suggested that it might be useful to send him to Greece in conjunction with the Mowhawk tire recap plant.

4. Martinique - Pumices WUBRINY/1 said that all arrangements are now made and this is ready to go forward and that KUBARK should decide right away the contribution we wished to be made by RECKREY. I told WUBRINY/: we would be back on this early next week, but I felt sure it was as had been sarlier discussed, namely, that we will foot the bill for RECKREY's time and travel, etc., expenses. ligte: I trust Mr. Allen vill give this priority attention when he returns.

5. Haitim Beaker M. CHARLESI MURRINY/1 said that he had encountered H. Charles at the flexional Airport in Washington at 1920 hours just at the time he was reporting in to me at my Ohown. WUBRINY I said that M. CHARLES was nattily dressed in a gray silk suit and said that he was on his way to Chicago but had not suid why. M. CHARLES was accompanied by George deMOHREN-SHILDT. WUBRINY/I asked M. CHARLES what in the world is going on now in Haiti and M. CHARLES shrugged and said that he felt that they would "bring down Papa Doc." No further details were given and this was apparently a personal opinion rather than something based on fact or knowledge.

Distributioni

Orig - EQ subject, 10Chrono C. FRANK STONE

I - WUBRINY Ope

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

19/BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)