104-10071-10021 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10071-10021
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CI/OBER
TO: FBI
TITLE : SUBJECT: ACTIVITIES OF DALE SMITH
DATE : 09/20/1968
PAGES : 2

SUBJECTS: ACTIVITY
BLACK POWER
DENMARK
SMITH, DALE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 07/29/93
COMMENTS: JFK15: F3 : 1993.07.29.17:33:26:710058

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10071-10021

NW 54559 DocId:32349118 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: Optional

FROM:

CI/Ober

EXTENSION NO.
B-177
5847
DATE
20 Sep 1968

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICER'S INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. EYES ONLY
   Originated by: E/SC/CE:
   Maria Walsh:ed
   6 August 1968

2. Based on: ODCA-15052, 26 Jul 68

3. Disseminated to: FBI on
   20 Sep 1968

4. ACTION
   B-700
   17 Oct 69

5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
7522

File: B-Memos (record copy)
cc: Dale SMITH (201)
cc: PROD COPENHAGEN
PROD

EYES ONLY B-177

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

NO FOREION DISSEM NO DISC ABROAD

SECRET

20 SEP 1968

MEMORANDUM

SUBJECT: Activities of Dale SMITH

1. Attached is a newspaper interview with American Black Power advocate Dale SMITH, which was published in Søndags Aktuelt, 7 July 1968, and which gives a fair description of SMITH's views as they have been expressed on other occasions.

2. SMITH mentions a television program which had been filmed but not shown by Danish TV. The program was, in fact, shown on the week the interview appeared; the title was "The Negro in Denmark" and a group of five American Negroes had a fine time sitting around a table in a dark, smoke-filled set meant to appear as a cafe, damning white America, capitalism, Russian communism, and most emphatically - Denmark, all with a fine disdain for logio or sequence of thought.

PLEASE TRANSKIT REPLY VIA LIAISON, MR. S. J. PAPICH

Attachment:
Newspaper article

E/SC/CE: Maria C. Walsh:ed 6 August 1968

Distribution:

1-E/SC/CE
1-CI/R2A
1-CI/LSN
1-RID

Based on: ODCA-15052, 26 July 1968

SECRET

NW 54559 DocId: 32349118 Page 3

NO DISSEN AODDAD

![Excluded from declassification]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)