# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![image]

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: PARIS ROME FRANKFURT

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: C/WE 2

INFO: DDP, ADDP, C/CI, C/FI 2, C/TSD 3, C/EE 3, DC/WH/SA 5, VR

INFO: ROME FRAN

CITE DIR 17976

DESENSITIZED KEYWAY PERUMEN

REF: PARI 3867 (IN 72764)

1. RISK TO *LIAISON* EQUITY BY UNRETRIEVABLE EQUIPMENT PROPOSED REF OP CONSIDERED OVERRIDING FACTOR. LIMITED LIFE BATTERY INSTALLATION PLUS WHICH MILITATE
   SECURITY AND *LIAISON* HISTORY *UNSOX* ALSO FACTORS ARE AGAINST QUICKIE OP WITH NUMEROUS RISKS. ADDITIONALLY, *UNION* ALMOST CERTAINLY RETAINS CONTACT *UNBOX* 8 AND VIEW LATTER'S POSITION HE WANTS AVOID ALL TROUBLE WITH *HEFAIRY*, HIS APARTMENT NOT CONSIDERED APPROPRIATE FOR LP.

2. SUGGEST STATION CONSIDER INDUCTIVE TAP ON PRESENT *UNSOX* WIRES LEADING TO SECURE LP AS ALTERNATE POSSIBILITY.

3. AMWEIF ONE WILL RETURN PARIS APPROXIMATELY 15 MAY FROM *ROME*. POSSIBILITY THEREFORE EXISTS MOUNT SIMILAR OP AFTER ADEQUATE PLANNING ACCOMPLISHED AND WITH NON-ATTRIBUTABLE EQUIPMENT.

4. FOR ROME: DO YOU HAVE EQUIPMENT SIMILAR TO ERT 24 AND BATTERIES TO OPERATE OF ITALIAN MANUFACTURE? IF YES PLEASE DESCRIBE EQUIPMENT AND BATTERY

CITES TO PARI.

![signature]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO-SITED.

![footer]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO :

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

PAGE TWO

TO PARI INFO ROME FRAN CITE DIR 17976

RYBAT

5. ALSO SUGGEST STATION CONSIDER USING NON-ATIRIBUTABLE BATTERIES MADE FRAN IF ROME CANNOT PROVIDE.

*Proposal to mount audio targetted against UNSNAFU/19.



Thomas F. Thiele

C/WE/INT

RELEASING OFFICER

TSD/AOB E. BRENNAN (PHONE)

WE/4

WE/SPOR. WALSH (PHONE)

WH/SA/LOB W. TYING (PHONE)

CI/TC J. MERTZ (PHONE)

03 FI/OPS (R. CRAVEN)(PHONE)

03/WE/5 (R. LOETS)(PHONE)

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

C/WE/3

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)