2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/DO/O

FROM : H. Clark Schor
Chief, Plans and Review Group
Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT : House Select Committee on Assassinations
(IISCA) Request

REFERENCES : A. Memo for SA/DO/O fr C/CCS/PRG, dtd
25 Jan 78, Same Subject

B. Memo for SA/DO/O fr OLC (OLC 78-0070/1),
dtd 12 Jan 78, Same Subject

C. Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director
of HSCA, dtd 6 Jan 78

1. This memorandum supplements Reference A and provides the additional information per paragraph 6. therein, in response to the request in Reference B.

2. CCS files contain information on individuals and entities cited in certain numbered items of Reference C as follows:

a. Item 5 - George DeMohrenschildt - five documents comprising four contact reports with a commercial asset who was in touch with Subject regarding a business activity in Haiti, and one memorandum detailing the results of a trace request on Subject. The dates of the documents range from 25 April to 21 May 1963.

b. Item 9 - Leo Cherne - 21 documents (six-1954; one-1955; two-1957; two-1958; one-1960; four-1962; and one each-1965, 1967, 1968, 1976, 1977) all of which concern the establishment, maintenance, and use of cover provided by Subject from 1954 to 1965 for a NOC officer assigned to Paris. Additionally, CCS maintains a file on the Research Institute of America, of which Leo Cherne was Executive Director, comprising approximately 100 documents covering the period 1949 to 1964; Mr. Cherne's name appears throughout this file.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

c. Item 17 - William Harvey -- Approximately 50 documents, virtually all of which concern the establishment, maintenance, and use of cover for Subject during his career with the Agency as a Staff Employee from 1947 to 1967.

d. Item 27

(1) International Rescue Committee -- 12 documents (1962 to 1976) addressing Agency non-use of IRC, and FOIA requests.

(2) Alexander Rorke -- No record in CCS.

e. Item 20

(1) Richard Helms -- Approximately 25 documents (1956 to 1974) concerned primarily with TDY travel orders, cover documentation, and clearance verifications.

(2) James Angleton -- Approximately 25 documents (1950 to 1975) concerned primarily with TDY travel orders, cover documentation, and retirement processing for Subject who was a Staff Employee of the Agency from 1947 to 1974.

(3) Raymond Rocca -- Approximately 25 documents (1964 to 1975) concerned primarily with cover matters pertaining to Subject who was a Staff Employee.

f. Item 30 - No record in CCS of correspondence or other communications on the matters identified in-volving Messrs. Helms, Angleton, and Rocca.

g. Item 36

(1) Southern Research Corporation -- No record in CCS.

(2) Wackenhut Corporation -- 100 to 150 documents covering the period 1963 to 1977 and concerning primarily contacts with Wackonhurt officials.

H. Clark Schor

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Adse
1 - DDO/ISS/IP/EIS
1 - 10-4II (HSCA)
1 - CS-2829 (DeMohrenschildt)
1 - CS-1337 (Research Institute of America)
1 - 18382 (Cherne, mentioned).
1 - R.C. 2395 (Harvey)
1 - MO-296. (International Rescue Committee).
1 - R.C. 14876 (Helms)
1 - R.C. 801 (Angleton)
1 - R.C. 12860 (Rocca)
1 - CS-2793 (Wackenhut)
1 - CCS/PRG chrono via board

HCS/vir


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)