# 104-10101-10175 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO:

PRIORITY BOOK CABLE
CARA MARA WAVE LOUS
MEXI LIMA PACY GUAT
BUEN MONT DOGO QUIT
LAYA RIOD SAOP SAGO
LAPA SANG SDOM

REFS: A. DIR 83577
B. DIP. 80638

88205

1. THERE ARE INDICATIONS THAT EXCELLENT EXPLOITATION MOST AREAS HAVING BENEFICIAL EFFECT IN THAT HIGH INTEREST CREATED AMONG PEOPLE IS ENCOURAGING AND/OR CAUSING SOME GOVERNMENTS ADOPT STRON SR TO VENEZUELA POSITION IN OAS. VIEW THIS, SUGGEST ADDED ACTIVITIES CONCENTRATE PRIMARILY (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) THIS ASPECT, I.E. EFFORTS DEMONSTRATE TO LOCAL GOVERNMENTS THAT PUBLIC OPINION IS IN FAVOR VENEZUELAN POSITION OF TAKING FIRM STAND AGAINST CASTRO. EMPHASIZE THAT CURRENT ISSUE BEFORE OAS RAISED BY SISTER REPUBLIC, VICTIM OF SOVIET AND CHICOM SUPPORTED AGGRESSOR; IMPLICATION BEING THAT ODYOKE PLAYING NO MORE THAN SUPPORTING ROLE.

2. CONTINUE USE "NO COEXISTENCE WITH CASTRO" THEME. CONSIDER HAVING LABOR, STUDENT, OTHER ORGS SEND TELEGRAMS TO LOCAL GOVTS AND OAS IN SUPPORT VENEZ POSITION: FOLLOW UP BY PUBLICIZING TELEGRAMS IN PRESS. VIA MEDIA SPECULATE WHAT SERPS LOCAL GOVT MIGHT FAVOR IN SUPPORT VENEZ, INCLUDING.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

16006


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

INFO

ROUTINE

CITE DIR 80205

A. BREAK IN DIPLOMATIC RELATIONS WITH CURA BY ALL LA COUNTRIES

B. CURTAILMENT ECONOMIC RELATIONS,

C. ALL POSSIBLE COMMUNICATIONS BREAK,

D. COOPERATIVE SURVEILLANCE OF OUTGOING CUBAN CARRIERS.

3. WHERE THERE RELUCTANCE ATTACK CASTRO ON POLITICAL GROUNDS SUGGEST USE PBG THAT CASTRO'S EXPORTING OF REVOLUTION OVERTAKEN BY NEWER EXPORT COMMODITY, NAMELY CRIME. THIS EXEMPLIFIED BY ACTS OF ARSON, DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY, MURDER, KIDNAPPING, ETC., AND THAT CUBA TRAINING OF SO-CALLED REVOLUTIONARIES FROM THROUGHOUT HEMISPHERE NOTHING MORE THAN SCHOOL FOR CRIME.

4. FOR MONT GUAT BOGO SOON: ADVISE WHAT ACTION TAKEN PER REPS

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)