14-00000
104-10193-10163
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: FRONT NATIONALE
(NATIONAL FRONT)
LOOSE DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

| DATE RECEIVED   | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAI |
| --------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 10.30 19 SEP 78 |               | ALLDSE ORR               | Phoebe C. Orr                   |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |
|                 |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DEPARTMENT OF STATE MEMORANDUM DATED 20 DECEMBER 1948
(FRONT NATIONALE FRANCE)

THIRD AGENCY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

# LONDON

# OFFICE OF STRATEGIC SERVICES

9 August 194

COUNTRY France

SUBJECT Resistance and Labor organisation in Normandy; Civilian Attitudes.

ORIGINAL REPORT NO SV-130

DATE OF REPORT 24 July 1944

EVALUATION B-2

SOURCE OSS - 3rd Army

CONFIRMATION }

SUPPLEMENT }

CORRECTION }

NUMBER OF PAGES 2

DATE OF INFORMATION Undated

PLACE OF ORIGIN France

ATTACH JENTS

THEATRE ETO-London

THEATRE
DISTRIBUTION

Mr. Phillips

Cmdr. Kittredge

G-2 SHAEF

G-2 12TH A G

M16

SHIR

EXD

E&A

MO

OWI

EAC

X-2

WASH

AL

1. The Conseil de In Resistance in Cherboug is composed of three main groups: the O.C.M., Liberation and the Front National:

The Chief of the Conseil de In Resistance, M. Crealin, is an O.C.M. leader and his organization holds the majority of seats in the Consell. The O C.M. is generally composed of merchants, landowners and notables who, prior to the armistice, were Rightists or extreme-Rightists.

Liberation, which claims to have been the most active and efficient nevement in the Department, is led by and generally composed of Socialists and C.G.T. ten. In fact all the Resistance Socialists and Union men are members of Liberation.

As in the rest of France, the Front National is here the Communist Party's resistance organization. It is not as influential here as it is reported to be in other regions.

2. The right hand men to M. Grolin & M. Docher (Beauchet), who seems to be as well the most prominent labor leader of the department. Bocher is at the same time secretary of the Regional Socialist federation, secretary of the lerchant Sailor's Union, secretary of the Union des Syndicats, representative or the I.T.F. and head of the local Liberation movement. He is a very efficient men and seems to be respected and esteemed by his political adversaries.

3. The enthusiasm in favor of the Allies described in the news- papers should not be overestimated. The Norman did not like the Germans and is glad that they have been thrown out. But a very

SECRET

RETURN TO

IMMEDIATELY AFTER USE

JOB 26-780 BOX /60

320487


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-2-

SV-130.

great number of people here are suspicious of Resistance because of the presence of Communists and Socialists. Moreover, they are very reserved towards foreigners as a rule, and they are not sure of what the Allies intend to do. They are also puzzled about the currency which has been introduced. On the part of Labor, there is a sincere enthusiasm for the victories of the democracies somewhat tempered by the way local problems are handled by military authorities. For example, the Army or the Navy have hired dozens of workers to repair the Cherbourg harbor, but have done it without consulting the unions. (They have thus given work to a lot of former Todt workers, while skilled workers who were in Resistance Movement are left unemployed. Instances of this kind are frequent.

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

#

##

###
Report to 1-129
Receipt from Potomac

###
Information late: 7-10 workdays
Reports at : 16 October 2021

###
Information late: 3 January
Values

###
Source


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

14-00000

3. 
alt

0 1001

こ

1:

jos!

1. 
3. 
L

よい

18. 
2

1. 200

dy

election re old

the stalls

قد

د

7-

el

15:

:::

in priva

::

こ

13

3

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

L
:
'
در
.....
pi
ti
!
udo.
L
C
0
t.:
09
:
یہ
:
borthe A
!
da
ragere
"...
...
ت
:
14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Page 3.

that the GO. not to intimidate a surriter, ly ide ndot eic quo 16.1

a.titudo.

12. In dinering relations of the reaultat parts with resistance arouni. sold, wer of the destal of the party, for the Tars! ber of the Nesned is de segreto e Set It States that hoolline and the 14: to he had hp, this Jual.: docent of the art would constitute a great secret collat rts of the news, trieu of the aufres. 20 treim mssica by alecteur as the party, that tot ko po vistos alko wco aytis to take advans e of the attestor of political pow.

13. :: for forti policy, ..Ces crued 1sel sopposed to the hg:coy are one fiet, cothritte 14.1, the Dite:tatus a Bnala, smi 1 avor of collect, with all cratie Lattem of the world aliyered in a intermiferal wel- 100 of cany, redit oraxrt, be co to natee the ::. !!ard1:5ts the brat ar into the coct ong c allic control of all.

Gorony, the Sut πρώτα.. Justy ad corona 10. for raivetiva desrea.

14. members in the Cor. wd tick to 40000 oradas las 12:eerlesed dactiard te quote any figures,

15. calor platel s that con itava rony molins in the yourous rotating the old ty would retlocalist 1. the furca; tha: it wale besonit to retoca to a revolu-

16. along with the Li part overshor.

17. :::0 docctiomstery 20111::.::rren::1960.:::Caletas:"010 the viesti cleation 12 tuois 129.1. or the view cost


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Page 4

mental and 1:1. Liberation cuttee.. nts. : to wi
fluence his ..sponal opinion on the ralatious of elections at he resort
`tre sirce vorons vote committee! in experiment, und he was a wat of coumducting rich agie.leuts, which `the e as 1 still war. (or it: a: self:
feel that to e elections not vealy prod.a ass of strength for the c. didata.)
tisma illeslie, Car mist. uinicipul delgal .. stated
us for the Cunta.lieved the alitots could be postponed, althaugls: 1 party in
Flatay tat is alilieved the elitions
rasing ito po no to have everything in readiness in case are held in February.

13. noti th of the is both t: 1: 1:2 cthier of the of the Var, for
    not being vi 1:1. an odour loilfaily the prosuount of migate.al supplies. for thiar tivi se
    particul.rly : the programe oris and for his active partitcipation un in restante assist ses
    hat stated as that he was honorary secretire of the of the proceering at valuation
    end that he not brose a pro the uill abita of the plolding permanent
    lionalsais.

15. Fothi. described ferival orders, ingine of Toulon, was a force
    lionary of thy old tradition . along with the gratia larity of h`s 1 1
    ari zi sore at the Toudon seal base.

20. Accordin to alli in, the dation of itation of Frugue-riala, the ferried
    paper publisadin Frio, tas a Cety cicanlative of 1.000 a.. rimis
    ciredtional C.000.

21. Toujours emblistia i, lebres the Toulon, section of the V1 was
    4.7. 11 3. COTM rlo! The officers are. Tasseesse, presidente; 1
    Souzisa. atis .. ter, et 16 e. ter for us the read as 1. 1itre
    Furano hor a more chir. tstation edition of the Christats out that make a..
    aper. to local eirculation of Parce

Thia Toulon ation te started 22. The Ut cheat :

to Juptate the moments Sarice: of te for the trealy po
starita 13:03.litives of the CP13.

23. gedia.listielial Farty, It is to observe to state that we ha
    .ad. יהומתי 4. force in the air lo party
    .::at, is activity as Ji woteral,

24. and. Totalesm, of the W, is co.pletto over tho xslty of
    Fusi in let :i ter the spent ust
    infrar between he two women in the lavaret nut of the Care.
    and rig ε, the points cateca of igni
    aro iesitant dat waiter, with the rest those in tits an intere


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Report No. 4549

of it to ranch the A.I.H. Genoral, is siatins tnd alusions are stil l centering botwaan the two groupa. Iriss assert that nass as of the Mirro not corromlsts al..in the position v responalbility 11 attaching to terroristn.

1.  continuing to arrogar represantitives of the C.G.T. on the of hiny aley atanes nembers of the A.M.I. 7ne I on the ? October 1974.
    (3 key stones) workers in 1977. Because of the most urgen: ..was a foiture the not in the due to art the e lization of (C.T.C.H. ... perits to the serarias $300 as to ot i.. im crealed a workers are too highly paid (ciola..-possib by a thone who widdr to avails labor or certain high. ion, for example, workers in t! building trades are . getting up to .. hear, while skilled adjusters on computing only francs

to rule ill as to less pola: out 14, 0 point 10 to rule
4.. 140000 14000 caused ant i. 1657. resole estaises by tas pomona, since this mo
1.  thorofore the faceed with in delica- task of working fire for the reia r certain extent :core salaries of other,

Sarda Hithitaucat : zilen Pat. : in
Pos : 217.000 ad in. i: 12 i Darrut. to ke quarters
7 K. Set of cation, o. the Shatour, at a ra. ves entate Formerly occupled or hyl:

17. the semmuitoe under secret four part of the As og As clore, Matos 1.258 Pances 1.026 lines, alpse fortition
    1317... passed use the comni a the ornt. i for the 30 official, part in 197. for the end so 31.5 it of con. sere collaborative Mortemnt stock radios as us

to are to

79. Sut tur he be des detua wents out se eme

.os

Did it be prev. 6 a riles er:: :: 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

14-00000

63

ih:



3



?. stare in the w

1:





al, se o ferly Corber of Fiet
vea, clatr





int
30.0
2.

17

cr



motor de fort to join the





53 strada, sen
CT





10 od
fo 1.
10 1 بن
b
vare t


GOT




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

25. 
36. Searching a needle in a haystack

![photo of a haystack]

Cau...

1.2

A

??.

11

1. 
1. 
১.১.

ふじ

C.f

:

To do not to

Cirlerd aft

:

3:

5. 
1,

:1 אני tou

COMP.

٠٠٣٢

:

70. 
Red;

Ately destroy

Sirs. has thich

:

Of

Min. 2012

1.. (

5€

Inc.

14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

14-00000

17

1. 
15 of a

3

and tunce

ה 168 84 כסן. י
i.

1.  6

r

:
oct.

1

...

?

1:

DS

food

el. De as

tor.

Cont

01:0

лес


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

el
eds in
Metlomuls 13
ers
:
:
+30...
ت
S
rich
?
NI
.:. .
1
i
ormico;..
..
erican
si.
::.
::
Ye.
CC: Sir
こいつ do
20
360
こも
100000
::
כים
::
CAC
14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# WAR DEPARTMENT

L.ARTE
Report No. F-189
Report from France

Information Date : 7-10 December 1941
Report Date : 20 December 1941
Classification Rate : 2 January 1942
Status : D-2
Source

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE
Review or Action

650-163


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# CONFIDENTIAL

--48-

## Notes on Section

1.  It is in full accord with above to take note of elections
    nationwide for next February. The Communists and Socialists are the two entries
    of the new political parties, and their strength ought to be fairly evenly
    divided. The Communist doctrine and material deprivation inflicting the populace are losing
    its influence in the country. It is a very favorable hour for
    the United States to strengthen its influence in the area by means of foreign
    technical organizations. Both the N.K.V.D. and the Communist party
    represent themselves to be very patriotic and would like to consider some matters
    to make them be considered more wisely. Therefore
    we must donate a donation (Ukrainian S.S.R.). Some donation would
    in France a defense of the population, but of all promotions to the
    cities of people. I said the richest loan. I have to act
    for that organization (variable Ukrainian S.S.R.), one thing
    I might send to my country.

2.  Furthermore, in private conversation, did you see that elections
3.  for president, in inspector that external and for building
    of the new territory. The Communists and Socialists are the two entries
    parties. Some paid as novel proof of supplanting anybody before
    me by the end of the agreement.

4.  A movement to effect on civil measures on the government.

5.  Movement to effect on civil measures on the government.

6.  I do not hear leaders this voice unwilling to take any
    near tears to be about equal in strength to the so. If they on Communists.

7.  It is stating to be absolutely, prognostications
    The Socialists may lay the dictatorial workers in Union (at corporate).
    The Socialists may lay the dictatorial workers in Union (at corporate).
    before the sun). Be related that 33.3 the face unconditionally
    strawold in 1939, of 32 senselier generals. Answers were Socialists
    may be stated that if elections were held by the Socialists
    The Socialists

8.  Not reported that the political situation is confirmed by the existence
    of the easy force in order to go there. They do not gain
    dignity in power and give way to the political part of them. They
    leaders of the 100 are motivated to make of personal interest
    that will belong to replace the old portion and the old Fedora. He states
    division of the generality they will not accomplish. The
    scientific and scientific columns, simply to show the influence of
    romanticism to that organization and thoroughly understand who is
    the one.

9.  Furthermore, in private conversation, and, of course, Socialist
    called in already spoken before the Congress of the Socialist
    The tree so bold on, inspector that external and for building
    of the new territory. Have pointed out that present Communist
    Socialists in were not representatives of the field of
    democratically reflect public opinion. Parties, I do not see.
    They paid as novel proof of supplanting anybody before
    me by the end of the agreement.

10. Movement to effect on civil measures on the government.

S.A.I.N.T.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

## Report to, --486*

so to draw attention here to cold agen (odere gone to, Mathon et affilio to beligt on 60 areme receale of the prodicatively, w re the gus popilior au jors of Control to Gaullio.

6. The ocialists festa a certain , of the Vermonto vote, they re that the worr s today to be strongly influenced by the olergy when they go to the polls. Despite the fact, however, that kepil its waw thi strenght to be held next rebruary.

7. The ocialist party was a t on the civd, Reprin though, the vein therodire of Toulon, with S. Saltay's display of posters and prepa onda material, and huge point to f. Lova and Jean Jaures. The roolim mittee is still a sessional, the fact that our manifested on w palette of propaganda. In view, However, this is a small knot of proient outions are held.

8. I the ring, The ocialist. M. May, Mr. Pederbor, 11. nodere, retr. of the Co, Ite of the of the 9re 6 and major at of revousto them 300 delegates are val and m. 6. belre cs, is noted by 3. cla-, a. ask for lunch. if nas conducted

9. To dat or of the activistes to the treat 8esteping of ' of the 8r, in to cong enly draty, federal, whenever tonino would be ureated to e contton, not all his positors thia the position of the i. of the in favor of the to tainty

10. It was also close Com to the gues tor of onlles rests site the guesh in tevor of opening wis

unity between the i. 1111 led. Watoron, notion me ration of diations, wian in city of I. e worsers dinean, the our for harmonsor maintien with vers ree, and wester from tevor of the to party aty 2.080.9.S 819 what bepecs, Latest the would not te artist,

11, waring the toter of the cotton madi


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

Page 3.

that the GG is not maintaining a sufficient ly independent and apolitical attitude.

12. In discussing relations of the socialist party with resistance groups, Soldani, member of the Durant Federal of the party for the Var and spoke of the socialist party and expressed his deep regret over the fact that fusion between the socialist party and the MRP now seems impossible. In said he had hope this fusion after now proletarians of the MRP with the base elements of the socialist party would constitute a great renovation socialist party of the future, During the debate on the subject, explosive exception to an transmission by the socialist Sector of the Baron Directeur of the party, that the leaders of the MRP may simply a group of arrivistes who were trying to take advantage of the situation of some political power.

13. As for Fergien policy, the Congress expressed itself opposed to the hegemony of any one great power, whether it to Britain, the United States or Russia, and is favor of a system of collective security, with all the democratic nations of the world equally represented in ca international association of nations. This association should have its own army, credit, transport, etc, in order to be able to guarantee the rescue. Regarding the treatment of Germany, the Congress voted tea opposition to any dismemberment of the country, but approved a long occupation sich severe allied control of all German industry and average and one long range program for the reeducation of German youth,

14. Copied Party: According to fr. Misteraci, secretary of the Toulon Section of the Socialist Party, the Communist to claim to have 4,000 registered members in the Vor. Communist leaders interviewed declined to quote any figures,

15. rotter, prominent casualst member of UM, maintains that the communists have gained many followers in the other since the ww, at the expense or the socialists. He claims the stat results to a large extent from the cammunists nationalist policy and also from Young, vigorous leaders as communist with the socialists who still love the same leaders representing the old regime. He stated that the policy of the Communist Party would remain nationalist in the future; that it would be difficult to return to a revolutionary program.

16. Further asserted that the communists get along better with the Christian Democrats then with the socialists, since the latter - as he put it - instead part, latercate above the catho triteres,

17. The cocoolata are opposed to the citing of elections next February. Their reason iston: tallers, alastions were before the recognition of the protestond Government by the Allies as a means of holding popular referent lies that Chulle d tha country sila im. rent, the passing need re bonditate ate to longer exists, sides, 18:20 4.1 fair to fretera se ilton rivere s onl copatosdora resedin to the polls. tomo on the roamento Carvalsts croposed to the clestions 12 tuciv fear of losia o strength diet here or the varicam dost


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Page 4

Report No. 4630

mental and lower liberation committee. Incidentally, M. Andre elicited his personal opposition to the holding of elections at the present time, since the women's vote constituted an experiment and he was not in favor of conducting such experiments while Prime still still at war. (Andre may sell us for the Communists.) Etienne alleges, Car undeunterprefecture delegate, stated flatly that he believed the elections could be postponed, although the Party in taking its plans so as to have everything in readiness in case the elections are held in February.

18. Both Andre and other criticised the "Professor of the Var", W. Servie, for not being strenuous enough in his inquiries of the scandals of the department. Clearly the procurement of adequate food supplies, Pothier promised, was satisfactory for his personal entourage and for his active participation in resistance activities but pointed out that he was temporarily secretary of the Sous-prefecture at Toulon and that he had not broken away from the old habits of the Petain fonctionnaire.

19. Pothier described Admiral leaders, refers resulting of Toulon, as a revolutionary of the old tradition along with the great majority of higher naval officers at St. Toulon naval base.

20. According to Allene, the Toulon edition of Rouge-Midi, the Communist paper published in Marseilles, has a daily circulation of 17,000 and a Sunday circulation of 15,000.

21. Mouvement Republicain Populaire: The Toulon section of the MRP was formed about a month ago. The officers are: M. Labrousse, president; M. Jouzieu, attache; M. Gomette, secretary; P. Crozier, server as the Rand travail, treasurer. A departmental federation of the MRP is in the process of organization. Labrousse hoped to have it organized before the end of the year, Labrousse stating membership in the Toulon section of the MRP - but this appears to be an exaggeration. Labrousse stated that the Toulon edition of the Christian Democrat newspaper, Le Republicain National, published at Marseilles, has a local circulation of 2,000. This Toulon edition was started two years ago.

22. The Union Feminine et Civique et Sociale (UFCS) is the woman's adjunct of the MRP at Toulon. At Toulon, the MRP in Toulon is making serious efforts to capture the women's vote. A series of three free weekly political lectures, starting 13 December 1944 has been organized by the GFUS.

23. Radical-Socialist Party: It is universally stated that the Radical-Socialists are increasingly important as a political force in the Var. No party headquarters has been established in Toulon, and aside from the brief party paper announcement, no sign of any Radical-Socialist activity was discovered.

24. "FN" and "FFI": Pothier, of the FFI, is optimistic over the possibility of fusion between the FFI and the FN in the Var region after the agreement just reached between the two groups in the department of the Gard. On the other hand, Arigo G., of the FTP, points out that many members of his organization are hesitant about uniting with the FN, because they see in this an attempt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# Page 5

on the of the to absorb the VIN. However, he states that discussions are still continuing between the two groups. IM/A asserts that although most names of the Moure are not communists, all the positions of responsibility in that organization are held by communists.

25. According to a Serene, representative of the on the Cha there have 24.907 registered members of the VI in the 7th of December 1957, as compared with 24,967 in 1957. Besoins considers one of the most urgent problems before the now in the war to the of the mobilization of the. Fire workers are required paid certain compensation to the salaries in order to avoid labor to certain high-level rotala alaries. Because points out that it is not possible to raise all salaries to mention this would cause an infla tion. Therefore, the con was faced with the delicate took of working and the wasting of others.

## Active and Military parties

26. Representative and Sanders Stivouen, proposition man- the Forces d' election do have a total strength of 500 officers and men. under the command of Colonel (FN) Beirut, Their headquarters are at Hidden, about 7 km west of Twion, at the Chataen erto, a row quisition private estate formerly occupied by the vichylite (Grouves Febil de Testan)

27. The two companies under serrat form part of the RS of the 15th of ton Alpes, Almo ritires. Bow Contents on placed as the comani r *Malliet, the MS are ar fficial, and under the prest tron of the 15th talcory begto the of co inting tors, collaborationists and black marketers are relating order, the has the additional task of guarding the prisoners. at 2.856 francs monthly officers and nonscom receive

28. Warranted stated that he had area and equipment for its men. Care for grants or a cold con that it would need a great deal for the discipline of his pen if they could all be prope and equipped. Re bastioned to tivt ta spite of dis An inspection the quarters, however, revealed a rather
    disciplines; the red Jocked the flitary art clean era of trained Corren prisonera walking on the premiere are more prompt than the de to attention essalute at the appro Colonel

29. Somer stetoi that he bed sens detus wonts out on expelions riros the

***
SOVAT. MTTTTT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

Report No. R-459

29. 5 Agent stated that he had made "deteats" out on elements of which had been reported in various localities. The "S.B." does not "made collect" these elements murdered, in the Thau area also have been circulating in Toulon to help carry out the black market; thus, fine for all offenses.

30. Lettat, she was formerly Departmental Chief of the Fillipe intelligence, claim is a bordill for the in Toulon, Burrat stated that the were would civilians devastating their spare time.

31. M.L. According to it, Colonel Burrat, ad the reporting of the For at Taras, make the command of in to leave shortly for the Front to join the less men, in Toulon, medes, accurat to one of the

Franco-American Relations

32. American sailors stationed in Toulon report number of cute fights and between themselves and Frenchmen, principally over women. The fool. at Toulon that the French would create an American at every opportunity possible.

33. On their side, the French are, to a greater or lesser degree, resentful over the maroon barbie of Toulon, which destrove a large part of the city: over American treatment of Serven 7/103 and over the fact that American food supplies to the civilion ropulation have not arrived in prother quantities. Can. se la Cavalese, rocut 3, veterans, of the last war and and acquisard for over ratsons and soap at high black market were sold at 50

34. continued relations with the Vichy Government after its recall; tot plesyal with the de Gaulle government and would have ododos a report on circulating in improper circles to the effect that these days before the liberation or a to de Gaulle; that american service diplomatic representatives had penetrated into the city and used with Vichy officials the possibility of setting up a new French government.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Page 7 Report No.: 48?

35. stated that more people see no desirability to do with the decision of the Government to dismiss the Police divisions in Minimun. In that connection, he stated that the CCN and the PRO represents a great necessity, since people had no confidence in the Police since many of the were men who had served the Vichy regime,

Economic Situation.

36. Housing Construction. Toulon has suffered heavily from allied bombing. The worst destruction does more particularly hard hit, but a good deal of damage was in the center of town as well. According to the municipal bureau of Reconstruction, of a total of 15,311 houses in Toulon, 993 were entirely destroyed and 3,760 require offer damage. Since it is quite difficult to obtaing building materials in quantity, people do homeless are temporarily living with friends and relatives, the shift quarters a large number have not yet returned to the interior. There has been normalcy during the arrivals. Toulon has a population of 160,000 and according to the authorities, 16 had been born to the end of August; it had been about 110,000.

37. The municipal services follow recommendation estimated needs of building materials for construction at Toulon:

0.  6,000 tons of file sideddes for roofing
1.  3,000 tons of bricks
2.  5,000 tons of plaster
3.  1,000 tons of cement
4.  1,000 tons of lime
5.  200,000 square meters of window panes

necessary roofing repairs are being made with wood plaster.

38. The food conditions in Toulon are bad, the most serious shortages being milk for children, and fats and oils. There is only enough milk to meet die.
    for children. Infants up to 9 months are confirm milk for the 1,500 children of 1-13 months, 600 cans of comformed milk. Another 500 cans daily would be needed for the 1,500 children 3 years of age. And sources appraise the urgency of this problem. The American milk is shipped to Toulon, distributed from Marseilles directly to the municipalities. There are some classes that can provide a continuous line. American Red Cross, which of all aboard the milk is sent to the children for them, as to the intensity.

39. Despite the fact that there is an important province of olive oil, there are a certain shortage of this product on the market. According to Allow, in charge of civilian intent, whenever stocks of olive oil do exist in the region are blocked by the Hitler-Korea de Revitaille not for distribution among the people.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

foresight, relation. Men of this etc. a.M. 13. and we are interesting the of no petition by the parts, that they the North. The approved by the the President, the black market, out of and presently, where on the stock, it sold for 300. Hence get in touch, then supplies.

Lo. Thus ed return of the perally in a small consideration satisfactory. The reat ration of about 200 pers rapidly is don't to be a. aidable in-. provement after the 90 percentible received data, the co-operation. However, people se med to operate fralate and generator in referment. In the face tuction with the coming of the Elites men megates in this place,

41. Public services: lectricity, and water supply are normal. The streets are a. The Streets in "ealon en
    micas entera'

### _FROM ABROAD_

Frank Ward President
Amigos Vice President
Blutch Vice President
Mardrin Secretary


New leader of Peasants Movement

### LOGIN

Prades
1200s
XXX
XXX

Guntnis.
Cercis:
Co

Comics de se gare de rctico


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

### MINISTERE DE L'INTERIEUR

**RESPONSABILITES**

Every with Reprions et Falaises (1500F)

* Affaires
  Finances
  Reconstruction, Urbanisme
  Hydratation publique, Eaux artes
  Sports, Théâtre
  Service du matron et buillon
  Travail d'entretien for burthalo communs, voleries, jardins publics, contrôle des trvoux ponics
  Pavillonent

### Departre de F.-69

**Partic or Ministeren Regiment**

FIN
FIN (Chrétien Démocrate)
FIN
FIN

Allégra
Clussess’s

* Au communist Party

Service a payara affaires difficiles
Caters, polices nasire, quats, port: us volven
Tentatidous, Ministres et Ror fugico
Etat civil, contributes, mimos Personal, regie dos sons
Cinemaonal, propou Fundulus, abattoirs
Services publics consiste
Savoira ouplis

GA
Socialito
Socialin
CGT

* 
CGT
CIT

* 130, Aviatoro
  130, Authora
  Simesics

* 
Remplacement, studies, ballon, Pavone
Jausoon, sports
Higiene, Infocaire
Contentios

* Mouvement offre de la Liberation Nationals
  Union ces Farms Francaise
  Fédération de la Joumespe Patriotique
  Logo Vecumique
  (dopendents)
* No. 260.1151
  *F*. Camen t
  Service con York, Hettoiosaont, Association, Usine Zuzzinosation et Colons
  (dopendent)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

K 6
Toulouse 12 Septiembre 1945.

INFLUENCIA DE LOS COMUNISTAS EN TOULOUSE
----------------------------------------------------

Los comunistas influyen totalmente en el *FRONT NATIONAL* y su diario *LE PATRIOT*, de Toulouse.

Asimismo en el COMITE FRANCE-ESPAGNE, cuyo Presidente Jean CASSOU, a pesar de no pertenecer al Partido Comunista, se deja maniobrar por el.

Igualmente en el Comite FRANCE-U.R.S.S.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

Report No. :F-6937
Date, of Report : 28 April 1946
Information : Current

FRANCE POLITICAL

Reported Replacement of "Front National" by a New Paper

The following report is from a member of the staff of "Front National" and is a close friend of Thorez. This information was disclosed directly to a well-tried source, who has extensive contacts in French press circles:

1. It appears improbable that "Front National" will continue to be published after the elections, because of the breaking down of this political formation, which is of no further interest - except perhaps a marginal one - to the Communist Party. However, until now, Thorez has been opposed to its disappearance.

2. At present the leaders of the CP are planning to replace it by a more effective organ, and are studying three possible solutions:

(a) A newspaper which might be called "Ce Matin", and which would be supplementary to "Ce Soir" which would be responsible for its publication. The directors of "Ce Soir", which is a successful paper, are opposed to this idea, because they do not see the necessity for placing an additional load on the budget.

(b) A paper exclusively for women and which would treat all questions interesting to women: the home, the factory, food, the child, clothing, education, etc. But it is wondered if women have not adopted the habit of reading their husbands' paper, and would not be reluctant to indulge in the expense of an extra paper.

(c) An evening paper which would sell for 3 fr., and which would be similar to "Le Monde" in form, and would be the leftist opposite number of that paper. This paper would be destined particularly for the elite, and would stress cultural matters, accurate documentation, etc. The difficulty lies in assembling a first rate editorial staff to handle the political, economic, financial and artistic departments of such a paper.

3. It appears likely that a decision will be reached before the end of May.

SECRET

Distribution: 3 May 1946 SSU/ID PARIS
Embassy/Paris Washington
LO Ancon
MA Bern Hampshire/Bramley II


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

Code Name

Name FRONTrINTIONAL (PARA)

Other Code Names RESISTANCE MOVEMENT

REF. MAPS CARD NO. F65

Pre-D-Day. D-Day.

Address (i) (ii)

Hides (i) (ii) (iii)

Profl of Identity

Description: Height Weight Build Colour of Eyes

Distinguishing Peculiarites

Zones of Operations N

Sub-Organisors COLEERT represents the MOUVEMENT CONSEIL DE LA RESISTANCE

W/T Operator

Experience

Remarks Resistance movement supposed to be run by the Communists strongest id the North but has some following in 2 S.

1219


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

From: Marseille.

Report No: W-833 Local File No:

No. of Pages: 0

No. of RCA?? ':

Report Made By: H. R. SHERIDAN HAS Approved By:

Distribution:

By copy to: 0

Orally to: 0

Source Cryptonym: HOMOHEDRAL

References:

Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

Although this report is based principally on information received from HOMOHEDRAL, the chief facts have been confirmed by HOMESTRETCH and HOMCONE. Much of the information, especially the excerpts from CADI reports, was taken from the original CADI documents which HOMOHEDRAL lifted from the CADI files. (One of HOMOHEDRAL's sub-agents got the char-woman who cleans the CADI offices to lift a few reports each night for a period of a week.) The Italian immigrant sent by this station to the CADI office is Ettore GUIDETTI.

Copies to:

Paris-2

Wash-2

Mars-1

Classification

SECRET

REGISTRY_COPY 29-4-11-2

![APERTURE CARD IMAGING]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# Subject: Comte D'Action et de Defense dou Immigres

Report : WFH-333

Place Acquired: Marseille
Date of information: See below

Evaluation: C-8
Dat Acquired: 28 April 1949

Source: HOMOHEDRAL
Dat. of Report: 29 April 1949

1. The Comite d'Astion et de Defense ces Immigre (CADI) was organized at Paris in November 1944 and operated overtly until ordered dissolved as a subversive group by a decree of the Ministry of the Interior in December 1948.

2. The principal organisations which joined to form CADI are as follows:

*   Parti Communiste Francais
*   Confederation Generale du Travail
*   Conseil National de la Resistance
*   Front National
*   Union des Femmes Francaises
*   Union dos Patriotes Soviétiques
*   Comite Italion de la Liberation
*   Comite d'Unite de la Defense Juive
*   Union National de la Colonie Toheco-Slovaque en France
*   Union Democratique dos Hongrois en France
*   Aide a la Patrie Polonaia
*   Front National Armanion
*   Italia Libera
*   Front National Roumain
*   Union de la Jounesse Republionine de France
*   Union Nationale Bapagnole en tramos
*   Fedoration des Espagnole Residant en Fran

3. As the name CADI implies, the organisation was formed to aid foreign iraigrants in France. It was not ostensibly founded as a political organisation, nor was it ostensibly designed to support any particular political party. Its apparent purpose was rather to give social and legal aid to any end all immigrants in France. Ita social program was quite simple and vas largoly devoted to the distribution of food, clothing, shelter, and money to needy imnigrants. Its legal program was two-folds firet, 18 offered legal assistanco to the individual imigrants through its lowyers, and secondly, it sponsored a series of measures in the Chamber of Deputies which were designed to benefit the status of all immigrants.

Classification SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

- 2 -

4. The measures which CADI spor.sered were officicily known as the "resolutions pour la promulgation d'un statut Juridique des Iminigres", and demanded the following benefits for the Immigranter

a. That "Cartes de residente privileges" bo kranted to all immigrants, without exception, efter three years roaid once in France.

b. That inaigrante be allowed to choose their place and type of employment.

c. That ivmigrants be granted all the social benefita to which a French citison is entitled.

d. That expulsion from France de made, dependent on e court order, rather than on a decree of the Ministry of the Interior.

5. CADI sponsored the above measures for all immigrants. For those certain imaigrants who had volunteered for service in an Allied army, or had taken part in the Resistance, or had been deported to Germany, CADI made the following demander

a. That naturalisation de granted by judges of the peace upon almple proof of the limmigrent's claim to be in one of the above categories, and that all other naturalisation requiremente to waived.

b. That all invalids, doportoes, and widows of men of this category be entitled to the same social benefito as Prench citisens of similar classification.

c. That the term "Mort pour la France" be added to the titles of the deceased of all immigrants of this category.

6. For those immigrants of the above category (para 6) who preferred to maintain their original citizenship, CADI demandeds

a. That they be allowed to choose their place and kind of work and that they be permitted to change their profession whenever they so desired.

b. That they rocsivo all social benefits grented to French aitisons.

c. That all "administrative measures resulting from their antifascist sctivity defore and during the War be annulled." (Piold comment: This is a direct translation from the French and refers to any legal actions taken against immigrants who, as Communists, refused to obey the orders of the French government between September 1939 and the German attack on Russie.)

SECRET 29-4-11-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

7. CADI was largely successful in realising ita demande, for the Statuto of Immigrants which was passed by the Consultative Assembly (the Statuto was composed of the ordonnance of 24 March 1948, the ordonnance of 8 Fovember 1949, the ordonnance of 19 October 1948, the ordonnance of 15 October 1988, and the doores of 85 December 1948) gave to immigrants an equality of rights approximate to those enjoyed by a French citisen. The most active supporter of the CADI isasures in the Consultative Assembly. In 1948 was Madelaine, prossinent Cosmaniot and one of the leaders of the Fray Wat Yonel. The Communiot Forty and the COT also heavily backed they wasures.

8. Paragraphs 4 through 8 represent CADI's original program; it was overs, it was designed to benefit all insmigrente, and it was supposedly non-political. To implement its program, CADI established branch offices throughout France in the the cities citics sich hed large numbers of immigrants. These branch offices were known maxcontres d'Astion de Defense des Iemigres. CADI also soar the load in organising the annual National Congress of Immigrants (Congres National des Immigra), the first one of which was hold In Parte on 23 January 1948. RACHA, representative of the Ministry of Industrial ProductTen presided. In 1943, CADI again sponsored the congress, now called the Interacional Congress of Immigrants in France (Dongres International des Imigres en.. Franco), which took place in Paris 18 February to 19 Fabricay. Some 15,000 delegates, representing 3 million inmigrants of all nationalities, attended. CARD, president of CARI, mado the principal speech. Louie ILLA?, secretary-acneral COT and president of the Chd, was a meader of the sponsoring ccamistoo and sat on the speakero' platform. The sponsore committee for the 1947 Congress which was also held at Perio in February, consisted of Justin GODARD, Louis BAILLANT, Jesqueg A03, Albert HAYET (delegate of the Ligue des Droits de L'Hose), PINED (director of the Union de Jeunesse Espublicaine do Prance), Madelaine ERAUN, and Jogany (ver foمطمح Lettrea Pranosique in the KRA ΟΡΕΙΝΟ ΣΑΣ).

9. Although the ostensible and apparent purpose and activities of CADI were those cutlined in peregraphs 8 το βίο its true purpose and its clandestins activities were quite different. CADI was not the non-political organisation then 18 professed to be, but was in fast a tightly ecntrolled Coczuais s organisation. fo be cure, the legislativo measures it supported benefited all immigrants, but they were designed primarily to help Communist immigrants. Similarly, CALI's program of aid to immigrants das restricted solely to Comunist or pro-Communist ismigrante. The trus purpose of CADI was to aid Communist and

SBORET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

- 4 -

pro-Communist immigrants to enter France; to aid them in establishing themselves in France; to place them in industries, mining, and agriculture; to organize them into faithful followers of the Communist Party; and finally to control them.

10. In order to realize its true purpose, CADI embarked on a clandestine program which may be divided into three major parts: the supplying of certain necessary identification papers, to illegal Communist immigrants, the placing of these immigrants in certain jobs, and the organising of those particular immigrants, along with all the foreign laborers in France, into submissive groups which would follow the orders of the CGT and the Communist Party.

11. Evidence of this first activity is found in the CADI office in Marseille. This office is currently operating a program whereby any avowed Communist immigrant coming to the office is furnished a "carte de travailleur etranger", given a job in industry or agriculture, and, for the sum of 5,000 francs, is furnished with a naturalisation decree.

12. (Field Comment):

Having heard from two sources that CADI was operating such a program, this station sent on 10 March 1949 one of source's sub-agents, an Italian immigrant who had entered France clandestinely, to the Marseille CADI, at 8 Place de la Prefecture, to ascertain if these reports were true. As CADI our sub-agent was received by George LIRIVER. Our sub-agent then presented himself as an Italian immigrant who entered France clandestinely and asked that he be given a "carte de travailleur etranger". LIRIVER asked our sub-agent who had sent him to CADI, to which the sub-agent replied, "I am a Communist." LIRIVER asked to see the sub-agent's Party card, and the latter showed it to him. LIRIVER then asked the sub-agent if he had a job in France, to which the sub-agent replied in the negative. LIRIVER told the sub-agent to return in two weeks at which time he would give him an "autorisation de sejour", and in three weeks, he would provide him with a "carte de travailleur etranger". LIRIVER also promised to give our sub-agent an agricultural job in Sete (Herault). Finally, LIRIVER told our sub-agent that for 8,000 francs he would provide him with naturalisation papers. Our sub-agent replied that he wanted such papers, but that he would first have to acquire the money. The interview ended with both men raising their fists in the Communist salute.

13. From questioning our sub-agent, it appears that the papers CADI furnishes are genuine papers which they obtain through the connivance of certain individuals in the Marseille Prefecture.

SECRET 29-4-11-2

![APERTURE CARD description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

- 6 -

The sub-agent's sister unfortunately died in Paris on 19 March.
The sub-agent then left immediately for Paris and has not yet returned. Upon his return to Marseille, this station will send his back to CADI to claim his "carte de sejour" and "carte de traveilleur etranger". We will also give him 5,000 francs with which to acquire his naturalisation papers and we will direct him to accept the proferred job in Sete.)

14. Additional evidence that CADI is engaged in supplying those papers is found in the fact that on the 24, 63, and 83 of January 1949 four foreigners presented themselves at the office of the Confederation Generale des Internes, et Deportes Politiques de la Resistance et des Victimes de l'Oppression, Hasis on du Rasisma where, thinking they were at the CADI office, they asked that they be given "cartes de sejour". These men were:

*   HILLER, Robert - born in Baden, Germany
*   JACOBSOHN, Carl - born in Hamburg, Germany
*   GEORGES, Norics - born in Sookelyncmakoly, Hungary
*   LASZLO, Alexandre - born in Marovarely, Hungary

These four had entered France clandestinely and each had been told before leaving his own country to apply to CADI for his French papers.

15. The following excerpts from CADI reports indicate CADI's activity in placing immigrants in industries and agriculture.

a. "The Poles sent by CADI into the iron and coal mines number 60,000. In addition CADI has placed '80,000 Polish agricultural workers in France." (Field comment: From a report by LOUKA, delegate of the Conseil National Polonais en France.)

b. "In the large chemical and metallurgical factories of Marseille one-third of the employees are immigrants. In the Acieries du Nord, 340 workers are foreigners; the Cotel Plant, 685 workers are immigrants. CADI has placed many of these men and will continue to place as many again." (Field comment: From a report of Guido ZAMIS, CADI secretary in Marseille.)

c. "There are 3,800 foreigners in the coal mines at Carmaux-les-Mines. CADI has placed 80% of these men." (Field comment: From a report of the CADI representative for the TARI department.)

SECRET

24-4-11-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

16. The following excerpts from CADI documents indicate CADI's activity in organising the immigrant laborers into submissive groups ready to follow CADI-COT-Communist order:

a. "It is necessary that CADI take the lead in organising these foreign laborers in strong and democratic unions. We must protect them from their capitalist oppressors and we must aid them in their struggle against their employers. In CADI and in the COT, the immigrant finds his strength." (Field comment: From a report by Louis PETIT, one of the organisers and national leaders of CADI.)

b. "It is through CADI that the immigrant masses are able to mobilise for the tasks which lie before the whole country. It is CADI which must educate the immigrants in the ways of true democracy and it is for CADI to lead them in their struggle." (Field comment: From a report of LAROCHE, secretary-general of CADI.)

c. "Before the war, the countries from which these immigrants came were under the control of Fascist and reactionary regimes. The immigrants left their homes without hope of returning. Now things have changed! the countries from which they came are today true democracies and they now have the problem of helping those of their former citizens who are now living outside their borders. It is CADI who, working with these democratic governments, is attempting to obtain the rights of liberty and democracy for these immigrants now in France." (Field comment: From a letter written by Louis PETIT.)

d. "We are proud to be from a region where the majority are immigrants, the immigrants who organised the great strike of 100,000 workers during the occupation under the leadership of Auguste LECORUR. In those times, all orders were executed clandestinely, and we will execute them today with the same enthusiasm. CADI must lead the way." (Field comment: From a speech by the CADI secretary in the Pas-de-Calais.)

e. "The control of the recruiting of immigrant workers must be done in a rigorous manner by CADI and the French workers' unions. We must prevent the immigrant worker from becoming a tool in the hands of the capitalists." (Field comment: From a speech by GIOVETTI, (Eng), delegate of Italia Libera.)

17. Further evidence of CADI's activity in organising the immigrant workers is found in CADI files. - Report after report from various CADI delegates throughout France list by

SECRET

29-4-11-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

-7-

nationality the number of imigrants in their areas, and in
addition many of the reporte note the number of these ismi-
grants who are under CADI control. These reports are all
similar, and it is sufficient to quite from one: "more than
50% of the miners in the Loire basin are inmigrantes of thos0,
the following percentages adher to CADI: 98% of the poles, all
the Yugoslave, 80% of the Portuguese, 60% of the Italians, and
75% of the Hungarians." (Field comment: From a report by
the CADI secretary from the Loire.)

18. "Although supposedly dissolved by Ministerial decree in
    December 1948, CADI continues to operate clandestinoly through-
    out France. Its present national president is Justin GODARD
    former minister; KRYDMAN, (nu), a member of the Comite d'Unite
    de la Defense Juive, is vice-president LAROCHE (Yuu), is
    secretary-general. National Headquarters are located at
    100 rue de l'Universite, Paris. The principal organisations
    supporting CADI today are those listed in paragraph 8, except
    for those of theas organisations which have ceased to exist.

19. CADI functions in conjunction with these organisa-
    tions and in addition it has its own delegates scattered
    throughout France in the industrial and mining regions. Among
    the CADI delegates are the following:

HORCADO - delegate of the Federation des Espagnols
Resident en France

LOUKA - delegate of the Conseil National Polonais
en France

GIOVETEI - delegate of Italia Libra

KOVACS, Muranyi - secretary-general of the Union
Democratique des Hongrois en Franco

PAHAB - member of the Front National Hollonique

MULIK - member of the Front National Armenien

VINCIOUKRMA - president of the Union des Voluntaires
Etrangers

SOEU - delegate of the Front National Rouman

CONTI, me. Germaine - secretary of the CADI in Paris

ZELLESY - delegate of the Union Nationale de la Colonie
Tobeco-Slovaque en France

QUERRIERO - member of the Federation des lemigres Portuguais

HOLLAND - delegate of CADI on Eastern France

FRYDMAH - vice-president of CADI, delegate of the Comite
d'Unite de la Defense Juive.

PETIT, Louis - one of the organisers and responsibles of
CADI

SECRET

29-4-11-2-

> APERTURE CARD *REPRODUCTION*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

(Field comment: It is realised that some of the organisations of which these men are listed as delegates have been dissolved, notably Italia Libra and the Front National Armenion. However, the names of the individuals and their affiliations are shown exactly as they appeared on CADI documents.)

80. CADI is well-financed. Its principal financial support comes from the Communist Party and the CGT. (Field comment: CADI documents acknowledge unspecified contributions from those organisations. One of source's informants, the chief of the Foreigners' Section of the Marseille Prefecture, has stated that he knows the Marseille CADI has an undetermined quantity of rubles, presumably received from the Communist Party.)

81. In Marseille, the CADI office was established by OUIDEZANIS and George LINIVER in March 1945. It was originally located on the Blvd. du Huy, but in September 1947 is trans-ferred to 3 Marche des Capucins. In February 1948 is moved to 97 rue Longue des Capucins and then, after it was ordered dis-solved, it continued to function clandestinely at 2 Place de la Prefecture, where it remains today. ZAMIS remains the director of the Local CADI, assisted by LINIVER.

SECRET

29-4-11-2

![APERTURA 9929 REVUE PRESSE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

> [Figure] A plan with rectangular box inside, with some hand written notes and drawing on the right side.

UF-M-339
5 Aug 1948


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

Subject:

Report No:

Date of Information:

Place Acquired: EIOC

Date Acquired:

Evaluation: B-3

Date of Report:

Source: EOUILATIO

SECRET

REGISTRY COPY 29-4-5-236


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET DFM-377

![image]

SECRET

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

Paris

22 November 1948

Report No: A-4195 Serial File No:

Subject: 1 rpt

Action Requested: J. Ackeror

Distribution:
Nash - 2
By copy to:
Ing - 2
Greece - 1
Cred to:

Source Lezpie:
Reference:

Source, Operational Data, and Comments

Attached is a report entitled "Further Arrests and Restrictive Measures by the French Surete to all Albanian CP Activity."

![illegible image]

Classification: SECRET
REGISTRI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# Further Arrests and
# Destructive Measures
by the French Surete
Balt Rumanian Activity

from a punt France, Paris

Evaluation

Source. AETS 1

1. The following person, all of whom have been particularly active in connect-ion with Rumanian Communist Party affairs, especially within the Paris legation, were arrested by the French Surete on 15 November:

Filie SIMIHD, a cobbler, and member of the Front National Rumanian Melli Simin.
SIMIHD has previously been reported by source as a rich man, though cobbler by profession. He has property at Courbevoie (Seine of Oise). At Paris, he lives at 4 rue Anjou. He is a frequent visitor and telephone caller at the Rumanian Embassy.

Dr. Vlace WILK, member of the Front National Rumanian

Barbu-Kwonowaki, Legation employee

Connine TILLARD, a French citizen and noted Communist

In addition to the above and belonging to the same category is HALIFUSON, who was arrested on 17 November.

2. The apartments of the foregoing were searched, but apparently nothing of importance was found. Subsequently the five incriminated persons were released.

3. The Association des Roumains Amis de la France (Front National), was involved by a director of the Surete, which has also forbidden the publication of the newspaper, *Al. Roumaine Libre*.

![logo of the word SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

A-0295

29 April 1949

1.  Subject is a prominent communist in Cannes and is currently one of the leading members of the "Combattants de la Liberté" in that city. He was one of the organizers of the "Front National" in the Alpes-Maritimes.

2.  In 1945 he was elected mayor of Cannes (which also made him, *ex officio*, a *questor* of Cannes). He ran for re-election as mayor in October 14th, 1947, but was defeated.

3.  In 1948 he was also elected as a Conseiller General in the *canton* of Cannes, but was defeated when running for re-election to this office on March 20-27, 1949.

4.  In 1947, he was elected as a conseiller Municipal in Cannes and currently holds this office.

Subject is married and has one daughter, aged 20. His address is chalet Jerôme, Cannes (on the road to Antibes).


![signature]

H. S. SHUBERTAN


![image of copies to]

INDEX

CONFIDENTIAL

REGISTRY COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

DISPATCH NO LPA-1526

SECRET CONTROL
U.S.A.

DATE 26 March 1951

TO Chief, F/V

FROM Chief of Station, Paris

SUBJECT: GENERAL: Transmittal

SPECIFIC: list of Allied Communist dominated organizations

1. Attached is a copy of a list given to Leon H. Sherman recently by Jack West, Legal attache. The attachment was originally given to West by Keith Angell, Security Office, RCA-OSR, Paris, Mr. Angell advised that he had received this list from a source in the Prefecture of Police, Paris, and that it is based upon information in Prefecture files and investigation by that agency.

2. It will be noted that this list is apparently of quite recent date in that these international organizations recently expelled from France (IPDW, WFDY, FTU) are noted as "dissolved".

3. Mr. West also transmitted a copy of this list to Mr. William Crawford in the Embassy here.

Gustav Peterson

FDW - 3 (copies 5 pg att)
Files - WFPA - 1
Comm - 1 (1 att)

![INDEX]

SECRET CONTROL
U.S.A.

![APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

Parti Communiste Francais, 1. de la minterie 128 rue lafayette.

Amicale des Anciens de .. mre Noire, 13 rue Premicourt (15eme).

Amicale des Jeunes e .. terre, 30 rue Rene Boulanger (10eme) Rot. 21.31.

Amicale des Volontaires de l'Ere agine (republicaine, 45 rue du Fg Montmartre, (9eme) - Prov. 02.48

Amicale Nationale des E..... Municipaux Communistes de France, 1 rue de Maubeuge (3eme) Tru. 73.11

Amicale Nationale des E..... republicaine de France, 1 rue de Maubeuge (9eme) Tru. 78.81

Amis de la Commune, 37 rue du Louvre (2eme)

Amis de la Nature, 19 rue St-Morges (9eme) - Tru. 49.88

Amies de la Taizi 37 rue Journet (16eme) - Jae. 86.04

Amitiés Franco-polonaises 9 boulevard des Italiens (2eme) - Ric. 01.95,

Association des Travailleurs Scientifiques, 87 rue Geoffroy St-Hilaire (5eme)

Association d'Etudes et d'informations municipales, 1 rue de Maubeuge (9eme) Tru. 78.81

Association Nationale des Anciens P.P.I. - P.T.P.P. et de leurs Amis, 17 boulevard des Italiens (2eme) - Rie. 46.27

Association Nationale des Cheminots Anciens Combattants, 9 rue Lausten-court, Var. 04.97

Association Nationale des Familles de Fusilles, 10 rue Leroux (16eme) Fle. 71.80

Association Nationale des Rapatries d'Indochine, 19 rue St-Georges (9eme) Tru. 09.88

Association des Veuves Orphelines Ascendants Victimes des deux Guerres, 3 rue de Tilsitt (8eme)

Association Republicaine des Anciens Combattants, 45 Fg Montmartre (9eme) Pro. 32.49


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

Centre de Jiffusion du Livre et de la ٦٠ ...., 112 bulevard Hderet
(120mm) Dor. 11.39 - 15.05

Centm laique de Formation :: curve pour l'an O av. Mathurin. Moreau (100.0) 난

Combattwity to la Paix at de in Li arte, sme dos yranids (ler) pe. 35.

Coalte Francate de Cefence des aizra Imigres, 15 8 Hont artem (100m) 0. 82.78

Conite Francais de la Jeunesses amocratique, 19-at-more Tru. 30.83 (0)

Confederation Manaralo de l'Agriculture, are crt (0) 0.50.20

Comite National des crivains, rie 0199 (Mara) Ang. 08.79

Comito National des Journalistes, ? : mia de l'Elyseu

Coalto Natlonal des hauciane, 13 ra Balls (0)

Confederation Nationale des catalris, 18. Arthur Coater 100ma) Nord. 2.51

Confederation Generale du Corrse at de l'industrie, 149 re du "coplo (Jomn) Tur. 62.15 1

Confederation Generale 'nifies de l'artisanat, 10 . 111ne du Calvatre (300) - Tur. 53,29

Consell Cational de la notat ace, 1 mie - (อเลย) Пу 0.52.

Cooperative de "roduction co un diffusion. Film, mun de Chabrol (9ems) Pro. 07.05

"ditours rancais uunis, 31-inds des rte (Ben) 0.73.24-

Editions. Jaunsare unalot (100)-: -:00. 12.91 !

Editions Sociales, 44 Ud Auguste anal (100) Cob. 45.41

Federation dos Chorales et reu, rtistiques de la Jeunesse, 9 rue "wahiot (1500) Seg. 15.01 i

Vederution dos locataires, 32 bis, ald Richard Lenoir (Hans) Roq. 9,20

Federation Francaise des imma-Clubs, 2 rue de l'mysse (Dama) :
Anj. 9.54 ;


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Federati vi Musicale 'opulaire, 2 rue de Elysee (36.39) - Anj. 91.54

Federation Nationale ter senorton intermen at Resistante Patriotes,
Ce. 71..50, 59.10, 37.52.

"oderation Nationale on on
)م("op. 13.92

"rieanniers to 'uerre, 46 rue Copemia
Podarat! atonale taeportne du Travail, 5 rue du ! Polesondere (10)
Γτον. 15.01

Federation Nationale tas irecteur de Colonie de Vacances,
78 mie St-Merri (4emn)

Fedorat.un. Nationale de lutte nti-uberculouse, 2 av. Hatmurin Moreau (190)
..

"aparat on tattonala as "risonniers do herre, 62 rue Chansese d'intin (Dema)
Tr1. 43.25

Federation Nationale tea Sinioms, Pairie de Notey le Seo, Nord. 26,59

deral on portiva et rmique du Travail, 19 rue St-Georges (gene) Tru, 19.08

erunce - aDamme, & Cite Ponthiere (9ema) Tri. 05.26

France - coumanie, 16 rue Vezelay (Boss) Lab. 26.68

Tchecoslovurula, 18 rue fonaparte Geme) - Gade. 20.20

Prance - ...., min jou (Bar), Ing. 19.54

France - lotnas, 40 rue d'Argout (Base), Lou. (08.20

Front Hatonal, 19, meteorgae (Gama) Tru, 40.84

11 "rancaise oinssimecont, 5 mio Recamier (Jame) Lit. 88.71

Youremat on intelluctuo!
luctual rancais pour la "efense da la "six,
3 110 00 yramides (lor) Ore. 30.02

Mouvement at on ud:taire, Palais de Justice, ad du Palais (4)

Plein Air Jeunes, 9 rue "nalot (leme) 0, 11.01

Adio - liberte, 5 rue Lamartine (9ene) Tru. 71.82

Secours "opulaire Francats, 11 "ld Wontmartre (Cese) Cent, 27.70

- 3 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Travail et Future, 3 de . Faite (3) Can. 49.09)

Tourisme et -ravail, 18 rue 1'interville (9). Pro. 30-48 et 30.19

Union de la Jeunesse ep blicaine. France, 9 rue Himblot (15) Segur 10.44

Union des Architectes Francais, 14 B Cherche-Midi (9)

Union des Artistes Modernes, Club Hallet-Ievens, Rue Hallet-Ievens

Union des Arts Flistiques, 2 Rue de 1'lysee (8) Anj 91.54

Union des Cames et Falais de la Jeunesse, 9 Rue Hublot (15) Segur 11.01

Union des Chirurgiens Dentistes Francais. 22 Rue Hallo Montier (10)

Union des Femmes Francaises, 12 Bis rue d'Astorg (8). Anj. 38.68

Union des Ingenieurs et Techniciens Francais, 8 rue de 1'lysee (8)

Union des Jeunes Filles de France, 9 Rue Hublot (15). Seg. 11.70

Union des Juifs pour la Resistance et 1'Sair'Aide, 14 Rue de Paradis

Union des Medecins Francais, 2 Rue de Sese (8). Cpera 74.40

Union des Vaillants & Vaillantes, 5 Rd Montmartre (9). Cen. 75.51

Union Francaise des Anciens Combattants, 20 R. de la Chaussee d'Antin

Union Francaise des Auberges de la Jeunesse, 140 Bd Haussmann (8)

Union Franchise Iniversitaire, 10 rue de Jussieu (5). Por. 15.38

Union Mle des Etudiants de France, 15 rue Soufflot (5) Dant. 71.40

Union Mle des Intellectuels, 2 rue de l'lysee, Anj. 91.54

Union Mle des Spectacles, 2 rue de l'lysee, Anj. 91.54

Union Mle des Tinux Travailleurs, 3 av. Mathurin Yoreau (19) Nord. 17.23.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Bureau du Congres mondial des Partisans de la Paix, 6 rue de Vlysee
Arr. 14.20

Bureau de Liaison des Intellectuels pour la defense de la paix, (lors du congres de Varsovie), 4 rue de Vlysee, arr. 1.81

Federation Democratique Internationale des Femmes, 17 rue suivant (14)
Jamain 05.04 (Dissolvod)

Federation Internationale des anciens Prisonniers Politiques, 10 rue Leroux (13)
Ely. 71.50

Federation Internationale des Juristes Democrates, ches Me. Joe Nordmann,
13 Quai Bourton (4) Jant. 77.45

Federation Homiale de la Jeunesses Democratic, 21 rue de Chatcaudun (9)
Tru. 13.95 (Dissolved)

Federatice. Syndicale Hominis, 1 rue Vernet (3), Ely. 10.50 (Dissolved)

- 5 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

WYMA-0186

6 October 1948

TO: Chief, FBW

THROUGH: Chief of Station, Paris

FROM: Chief of Station, Marseille

SUBJECT: Organisation of the French Communist Party in the Marseille

BUREL-BOORY

INTEL

The following is a survey of the organisation and membership of the French Communist Party in the Marseille Area.

Departmental Federation: headquarters, 16 Alles

Leon Gambetta

Federal Secretary: Denis BIZOT

Federal Secretariat:
of arrondissement CP, Marseille area

Pierre DOIZE

Josette REIBAUT

Marius COLOMBANI

Federal Bureau:

Denis BIZOT - in charge of political section

Pierre DOIZE

Josette REIBAUT

Marius COLOMBANI

Lucien MOLINO - 19 Blvd. Bordillat

Jean CRISTOPOL

Pierre KIMIANURLLI - in charge of Press-Propaganda

Ludovic TROUIN - in charge of organisation

Pascal POSADO

Henri BERTINI

REne ALLEMAND

Yvonne ESPACHY

Paul COURTIEU

Jean CLAVENIE (alias: POLLUX) - in charge of recruiting and interior police. A particularly dangerous person.

Federal Committee

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

## Federal Committees

| Prosecute Witnesses  | Justice Mitters |
| -------------------- | --------------- |
| Joseph  Adl. Caseldo |                 |
| Alis Al-Ad           |                 |
| Alfonse              |                 |
| Calisaro             |                 |
| Zorni Di T           |                 |
| Dario L.             |                 |
| Eugene E.            |                 |
| Fred                 |                 |
| Semi Siday           |                 |
| Mario                |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |
|                      |                 |

Ex


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Forestrymen in the Human Element Party number about 7,000, and are divided as follows:

| Position     | Pay   | (of which 200 are extras) |
| ------------ | ----- | ------------------------- |
| Foreman      | 2,430 |                           |
| Inspector    | 1,350 |                           |
| Writers      | 1,720 |                           |
| Measurers    | 1,200 |                           |
| Guards       | 300   |                           |
| Wood-cutters | 30    |                           |
| Total        | 7,030 |                           |

21. Promotion of Forestry.

22. Committee to Study It.

23. Examination of Accounts.

![reproduction from photo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

Heedquarteret 41 Core Liostaud

Departmental offi001

Becrotarys Bistand KHARD

Membersi Catherfas

(4,000)
Jeanne, LAVJI

Soarodarys RIGID

1.  100. 

P


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

WFMA-186

Honorary Members of the Committee:
CALLAS (Ex chief of FTP in the Bouches-du-Rhone)
CAPDRALI (Cmdt)
CLAUDIE (Cmdt)
OILETTE (Lt. Col.)
GRANVILLE (Colonel)
KORVAN (Cmdt)
PELLETIER (Colonel)
PETRE (Colonel)
POZZO DI BORGO (Cmdt)
SIMON (Colonel)
SENATORE (Cmdt)

Membership: 3,600, of which 3,000 are members of CP,
300 are CP sympathisers and 200 non-sympathisers

Secours Populaire Francais

Headquarters: 8 rue Villeneuve
Secretary: OLIVI
Fed. Officers: DEVIL
CHERI
MANETTI
ROIG
BOSCHESCHI
ARNOUX
CATALA

Vaillants et Veillantes

Fed. Commissaire: Charles LECA
Fed. Director: Paul ESTEVE
This movement is directed at youths of less than 18 yrs.

Universite Nouvelle

Members: Casimir JOUSSERON, Prof. at University of Aix
Georges MOURIER, Writer
Francis HALBWACHS, Fellow at University of Aix
This movement is directed at university groups.

Amis de la Paix

President: Perrine SOOS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

- 6 -

Association France-Roumanie

Committee Members:

CERMOLAGE MONTROUNON
CLERISSY Dr. FETIT
COHEN RUYSSEN
FROLY HOOLIAND
OLOCANTY SACHTER
HAINICLS SSBAN
LION THERAN
TOSTET

Association France-URSS

Headquarters: 68 rue Montgrand

Association Nationale des Fusilles et Massacre

Sec'y. General: Mme. GEORGES
Legal Counselor: Mlle. JUIPPRA

Association des Volontaires pour l'Espagne Republicaine

Headquarters: 4 rue St. Jacques

Association Republicaine des Anciens Combattants

Headquarters: 4 rue St. Jacques
President: Adrien MOUTON
Secretariat: SENATORE and J. MOUTET
Treasurer: J. CLERC
This organization is made up of 60 sections

Union Francaise des Anciens Combattants

President: RIEU-ROY
Vice-Pres: DUPUY
Sec'y-Gen: QUERINI
Treasurer: BRISSEC

Officiers de Reserve Republicaing

Headquarters: 20 Blvd. Paul Peytral
Honorary Presidents: GRANIER and PETRE
Secretary: BAUD
Asst. Sec'y: PAC
Treasurer: GLOT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# Front National

Headquarters: 18 411ess ison Gambetta

Groupement National des Refractaires of Aquisarda

Headquarters: 41 and 43 mie Grignan
Dept. Sec'y: FHOLY

Millces Patriotiques

President: SIPERT
(RIFERT was in command of a CRS unit hich was dissolved after the events of December 1947, and is now chief of a Communist shock troop group.)

Federation Nationale des Deportes et Internés Patriotes

Headquarters: 54 La Canebiere
President: Oolonel PETRE
Vice-Presi: Abba COCRAC

Artelia thora

Headquarters: 55 rue d'Alger
President: Mario MAGLIOCCO
Secretary: Aurelio BERTINO

front National Armonien

Headquarters: 67 rue Longus des Capucines
President: SAATDJIAN
Secretary: HATORIKIAN

PC Espagnol

Departmental Director: Fausto JIMENEZ

VARIOUS OTHER COMMUNIST-AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

MUR
Union Republicaine et Resistante pour l'Union Francaise
Banjamins et Benjamines
Pionniers et Pionnieres
Federation Nationale des Sinistres
Association des Veuves de Querre
Comités d'Entreprises
Comité de Vigilance
Comité de Defense de la Republique
Bureau Annexe Sud des Vietnamiens, An affiliation of the
Delegation Generale des Vietnamiens de France


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

## INFORTAL IMPORTANT CENTERS

Marseille
Arles
Aubagne
La Ciotat
Martigues
Miramas
Fort de Bouc
Marignane
Gardanne
St. Louis du Rhone

St. Chamas

In case of Communist Insurrection, it would be necessary to count on 12 to 15 thousand "die-hards", and 20 to 25 thousand who would be apt to side with the Communists.

## RESULTS OF THE LEGISLATIVE ELECTIONS OF 1945

Votes case 404,231
Communist votes 157,452 (38.9% of total)

## RESULTS OF THE MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS OF 1947

Number of mayoralities to be elected 117
Number of Communists defeated 26 (22%)
Number of Communists elected 17 (14.5%)

## POLITICAL MAJORITIES IN MUNICIPALITIES

Prior to 1947 - 19 municipalities Communist controlled (16.2%)
After 1947 - 10 municipalities Communist controlled (10.3%)
Municipal elected Jobs held by Communist:
1945 - 459 1947 - 408

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

- WFMA-186

# COMMUNIST PARTY SECTION ADDRESSES IN MARSEILLE

1er Arrondissement: headquarters, 68 rue de Lorette political secty., Louis CALISTI

2eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 20 rue St. Saens Political secty., Leon MERINO

3eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 21 rue Guerin

4eme Arrondissement: headquarters, rue Nourel, Maison du Peuple

5eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 100 Bard Baille

6eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 109 Blvd. Vauban, Maison du Peuple

7eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 191 rue d'Endoume

8eme Arrondissement: headquarters, Chemin du Rouet Political secty., PELLEGRINI

9eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 12 route de Cassia

10eme Arrondissement: headquarters, Por Port, 40 Ave. Delessert

11eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 162 Route Nationale, St. Marcel

12 emeArrondissement: headquarters, 81 Barnabe, 18 Chemin de St. Julien

13eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 92 Ave. de St. Just

14eme Arrondissement: headquarters, Bard de Pons, Bon Secours

15eme Arrondissement: headquarters, 10 Route de Lyon

16eme Arrondissement: Estoque Gare, Bordure du chemin de fer

Section de Saint Louis: Political secretary, BERT

Section de la Pelle de sai: headquarters, 31 rue Guerin

Section St. Lazare: headquarters, 3 Place de Strasbourg

Section Marine: headquarters, 25 Blvd. des Dousnes

Section Plaine: headquarters, 39 Place Jean Jaures

SECRET

29-4-5-233


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# NAMES AND LOCATIONS OF COMMUNIST PARTY CELLS IN MARSEILLE

| Name                 | Location                                             |
| -------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| Cheminots            | Gare St. Charles                                     |
| ARA                  | Vieux Marseille                                      |
| Abattoirs            |                                                      |
| Air France           | Marignane                                            |
| Albert POS           | Sebastopol                                           |
| Alexandre BLANC      | Sorgues                                              |
| AULAS                | FTT, rue Honnoret                                    |
| BACCI                | la Madrague                                          |
| BAGHUSSE             | Trouvat                                              |
| CAMATIINI            | Quartier Lodi                                        |
| CHAINAND             | Bar du Telephone, 20 rue de Lyon, ARENC              |
| COLLOMB              | Estaque Bar du Littoral                              |
| DEVEMOER             | 3 Marche des Capucins                                |
| DI IUSTO             | Porte d'Aix, 3 Place de Strasbourg                   |
| Des Douance          | Bar Moderne, Avenue d'Arane                          |
| Freche               | Bar Robert, 40 rue Emile Zola                        |
| Entreprise Paoli     | 60 rue de Lorette                                    |
| Hideloton            | Rue Kleber                                           |
| FIFI TURIN           | Bivd. Fou                                            |
| FLURY                | 12 Chemin de Cassis, Ste. Marguerite                 |
| Hopital de la Timone | 3 Marche des Capucine (under leadership of SEASSEAU) |
| Jean PEREZ           | 60 rue de Lorette                                    |
| IVA: DI              | Bar des Amis, 9 rue Pautrier                         |
| Joan THINQUET        | Bar de la Veranda, rue des Grands Carmes             |
| LAPORCE              | Bar Amer Picon, 3 Blvd. National                     |
| Louie PORTA          | 3 Place de Strasbourg                                |
| VANTAUZIER           | 60 rue de Lorette                                    |
| Paul LANJEVIN        | 2 rue Moisson                                        |
| Securite Sociale     | 3 rue Moutet                                         |
| Vieux Varseille      | 80 rue de Loretto                                    |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

WFMA-186

- 11 -

COMMUNISTS HOLDING ELECTED OFFICES IN BOUCHES-DU-RHONE

Deputies

Francois BILLOUX, Marseille
Paul CERMOLAGE, Marseille
Jean CRISTOPOL, Marseille
Lucien LAMBERT, Marseille
Adrien MOUTON, Arles
Raymonde NEDELEC, Marseille

Counselors of the Republio

Mangalle BOUVET (alias DUMONT, Mireille)
Charles COSTES
Leon DAVID

Members of the General Council

Jean BARAILLER Martin GONTIER
Marcel BADUIN Jean LAPRO
Denis BIZOT Clement MILLE
Pierre EMMANUELLI Raymondo NEDELEC
Edmond GARCIN Josette REYBAUT
Louis OAZAONAIRE Jean SENATORE
Rene GAUTHIER Ludovio TROUIN

P. D. NOYES

SECRET 29-4-5-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)