# 104-10165-10075 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CHARLES CLEMARD JOSEPH
201-#357027
VOL. III

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 3 AUG 78      |               | BETH LICHTENFELS         |                                 |
| 16 AUG 78     | 16 AUG 78     | BETH LICHTENFELS         |                                 |
| 28 AUG 78     |               | SURELL BRADY             |                                 |
| 18 DEC        |               | S. BRADY                 |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

![photo of Clemard Joseph CHARLES Vol. III]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: CHARLES CLEMARD JOSEPH
201- 357029
VOL. III

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED   | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | --------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 3 AUG 78      |                 | BETH LICHTENFELS         |                                 |
| 16 AUG 78     | 16 AUG 78 11:00 | BETH LICHTENFELS         | Beth Lichtenfels                |
| 24 AUG 78     |                 | SURELL BRADY             |                                 |
| 15 DEC        |                 | S. BRADY                 |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Political Prisoner in Hospital

Clémart Joseph Charles was taken from the National Penitentiary in Port-au-Prince to Haiti's General Hospital. The former Duvalier banker has been jailed since 15.1 "for political reasons" No proper trial was held.

Mr. Charles is suffering from an acute liver infection and the physicians attending him have warned that he will die unless he's allowed to travel abroad for special treatment.

This isn't the first time Mr. Charles was taken from his cell to a hospital. Last year he was rushed to Haiti's military hospital for treatment of the same disease.

Mrs. Charles has been allowed to visit her husband.

This is the first time the Duvalier regime has acted half humanely with a political prisoner. It's been pointed out that Marie-Denise Duvalier Dominique, a friend of Mr. Charles, has often interceded for him.

Army chief-of-staif Jean-Baptiste Hilaire will soon be replaced, say military sources in Port-au-Prince. His likely replacement? Col. Roger St. Albain.

On a lighter note, the General ran for cover on September 22 while there was a review on the Palace grounds to commemorate Duvalier's "election" in 1957. Accidentally the loaded automatic wezpen of a militiaman went off Many officials, General Hilaire among them, scrambled for protection, Jean-Claude, his mother and their body-guard General Gracia Jacques were trembling, but they kept standing, says a-source that was standing close to them.

201 357029

"Haitian Cloverrateni
4-11ex 74

Climaid CHARLES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Intelligence Information Report

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
Classfied by Recorded Deportag Off.cor. Exempt frora General Declassificarios Schedule of EO. 1:652 Exemption Cotagery 24: L
Impassibie to determine date of curamatic arclassification.

DIRECTORATE OF
OPERATIONS

NO FOREIGN DISSEN
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

SECRET

REPORT NO. FIR LT-313/01268-74

COUNTRY Haiti

DATE DISTR. 18 October 1974

DOI Early October 1974

SUBJECT Transfer of Political Prisoner Clemard Joseph Charles to Port-au-Prince General Hospital.

ACQ 15 October 1974

FIELD NO.

SOURCE A reliable source fron a Haitian exile leader who is well educated and who has a wide variety of contacts in Haitian exile groups. The exile was aware that his information would reach the U.S. Government.

1.  Clemard Joseph Charles, former president of the Commercial Bank of Haiti who has been held political prisoner since April 1970 on charges of plotting against the government, was recently transferred from jail to the general hospital in Port-au-Prince. Charles is said to be dying of cirrhosis of the liver and was transferred to the hospital on orders of Madame Simone Ovide Duvalier, mother of Haitian President Jean Claude Duvalier.

2.  Doctors recommended that Charles be sent abroad for proper medical treatment but me. Duvalier authorized his transfer only to the local hospital. According to close relatives, this occurred only after Minister of Interior and Defense Paul B1 anchet told the President and his mother that he would refuse to become involved in this case and would not sign any papers required of him as Minister of Interior certifying that Charles had died in prison. Relatives of Charles still intend to press for his removal fron the country.

3.  Field Dissen: Sent to Port-au-Prince.

SECRET

STATE OCI FBI CRS For Field Distrybution see final porogroga)

CLASSIFIED BY 010116

OBJ:KID

TOTALE OPS/INT 1, PS/EG 1, LA 4 (4) CI 2

TX-1853
NP(EVMEND-1)
FIRLT-313/01268

RH:ER
VG:1h


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

PORT AU PRIICE 1630

DATE: 28 NOVEMBER 1972

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: PRESIDENT GRANTS CLEMENCE TO 89
PRISONERS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

SECRET
(When Filled in)

ORIG: BETTY A. VAZQUEZ

UNIT: WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS

EXT: 4178/1528

DATE: 24 MARCH 1972

CONF: WH-20

ROUTING

#178

CA 5, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC-2, CS/DO,
FR-4, FI 5, IW, EUR-6, DCI, DDP, ADDP, CS/RF

TDCS -314/01961-72

DATE DISTRIBUTED: 24 MARCH 1972

PRECEDENCE

X ROUTINE

BASED ON (FLD. APT. PROJ.)
TX-1534

EVMEND
(EVMEND-1)

LIAISON: *

DISSEMINATION

| WH/REG | 1   | E/INTEL | 2   | E/BC/R | 2   |     |
| ------ | --- | ------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- |
| WH/RR  | 1   | F/F/R   | 2   | CA/INT | 1   |     |
| WH/FI  | 1   | WH/7/DR | 2   |        |     |     |
| WH/CA  | 1   | EE/1    | 2   | CA/B4  | 1   |     |
| FR/7/H | 10  | WH/3/V  | 2   |        |     |     |

EVALUATION REQUESTED OF:
STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS: Place X in appropriate space. List electrical addresses.

RECOMMEND EXO

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT MADE AVAILABLE DCI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED
FOR PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO DOMINGO,

SHOW IW

CARACAS, MEXICO CITY, OTTAWA

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY
TO

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

USIB PERSONAL ATTN

ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER:
Killa Kilnum
C/WH/7/RP

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEASING OFFICER:
Robert Hopkins
C/WH/RR

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET
(When Filled In)

COPY NO.:
File: 201-357029 (Clement Joseph Carlen)

FORM 1K-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
3-69


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# Intelligence Information Cable

* ROUTINE

IN

PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NACC NIC NSA SDO ONE CRS

FBI, EXO, DDI

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

**SECRET**

CITE TDCS -314/01961-72

DIST 24 MARCH 1972

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI 20 MARCH 1972

SUBJECT FURTHER EFFORTS BY THE GOVERNMENT OF HAITI TO BRING ABOUT
RAPPROCHEMENT WITH HAITIAN EXILES

ACQ 22 MARCH 1972

FIELD NO.

SOURCE A YOUNG HAITIAN EXILE LEADER WHO IS WELL EDUCATED AND WHO HAS
A WIDE VARIETY OF CONTACTS IN HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS. HIS
REPORTING HAS BEEN RELIABLE.

1. ON APPROXIMATELY 20 MARCH 1972 LUCKNER CAMBRONNE,
   HAITIAN MINISTER OF INTERIOR AND NATIONAL DEFENSE, TELEPHONED
   FERMIN JOSEPH, AN OFFICIAL OF THE NEW YORK-BASED, HAITIAN
   EXILE NEWSPAPER "HAITI OBSERVATEUR," AND TOLD JOSEPH THAT HE WAS
   DISAPPOINTED AT THE ANTI-GOVERNMENT OF HAITI (GOH) STANCE
   TAKEN BY THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" IN GENERAL AND JOSEPH IN PARTI-
   CULAR IN THE 18 MARCH EDITION OF THE PAPER. CAMBRONNE STATED
   THAT HE HAD HOPED THAT HIS RECENT INVITATION TO ALL HAITIAN EXILES
   TO RETURN TO HAITI, COUPLED WITH HIS PRIVATE DISCUSSION

**SECRET** NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

IN

TDCS -314/01961-72

PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

WITH JOSEPH, WOULD HAVE GIVEN THE PAPER CAUSE TO RE-EXAMINE ITS
POSITION VIS-A-VIS THE GOH.

2. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED IN
   TDCS-314/01942-72 THAT DURING A MEETING ON 16 MARCH 1972
   BETWEEN THE TWO, CAMBRONNE TOLD JOSEPH THE GOH CONSIDERED
   THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" AND ITS SUPPORTERS TO BE THE ONLY OBSTACLE
   TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO REUNITE ALL HAITIANS IN AN EFFORT TO BUILD
   A NEW, PROGRESSIVE NATION. AS A FIRST STEP TO RAPPROCHEMENT,
   CAMBRONNE ASKED JOSEPH TO REALIGN HIMSELF WITH THE GOH AND RETURN
   TO HAITI. IF JOSEPH ACCEPTED, CAMERONNE SAID, THE GOH WOULD BE
   WILLING TO NAME HIM TO WHATEVER OFFICIAL POSITION HE DESIRED EITHER
   INSIDE HAITI OR ABROAD.)

3. JOSEPH REPLIED THAT BEFORE HE OR THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"
   COULD GIVE ANY THOUGHT TO SOFTENING THEIR POSITIONS ON THE GOH,
   THE GOH WOULD HAVE TO SHOW ITS GOOD INTENTIONS THROUGH DEEDS RATHER
   THAN MERE PROMISES. CAMBRONNE THEN INVITED THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR"
   TO SEND A TEAN OF REPORTERS TO HAITI TO SEE FOR THEMSELVES THE
   CHANGES WHICH WERE BEING BROUGHT ABOUT BY THE REGIME OF PRESIDENT
   JEAN-CLAUDE DUVALIER. BEFORE SUCH A TRIP COULD BE MADE,
   JOSEPH SAID, POLITICAL PRISONERS WOULD HAVE TO BE RELEASED. ALSO,

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

TDCS-314/01961-72
PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN
(classification) (dissem control)

THE "HAITI OBSERVATEUR" KOULD INSIST THAT ANY SUCH TEAM OF REPORTERS
WOULD HAVE TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY NEWSMEN FROM OTHER NATIONS WHO WOULD
ACT AS GUARDS AGAINST ANY PRESSURE THE GOH MIGHT APPLY AGAINST THE
HAITIAN REPORTERS.

4. JOSEPH ASKED CAMBRONNE WHETHER THE GOH INDEED INTENDED TO
   RELEASE SUCH POLITICAL PRISONERS AS HUBERT LEGROS, CLEMARD
   JOSEPH CHARLES, AND COL. KESNER BLAIN AS CAMBRONNE
   HAD INTIMATED DURING HIS 15 MARCH PRESS CONFERENCE. TO THIS
   CAMBRONNE REPLIED THAT HE CONSIDERED LEGROS TO BE A VERY DANGEROUS
   MAN AND THAT HE HAD NO INTENTION OF EVER RELEASING HIM. (HEAD-
   QUARTERS COMMENT: LEGROS, A LAWYER AND SELF-PROCLAIMED COMMUNIST,
   WAS ARRESTED IN MAY 1970 AFTER HAVING BEEN SOUGHT BY HAITIAN
   AUTHORITIES FOR SEVERAL YEARS. CHARLES, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE
   COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND BLAIN, FORMER COMMANDANT OF THE
   QUARTERMASTER CORPS, WERE ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR PLOTTING
   AGAINST THE GOH.)

5. CAMBRONNE REITERATED THAT HE BELIEVED THE "HAITI
   OBSERVATEUR" POSED THE NUMEER ONE THREAT TO THE GOH'S PLANS TO
   REUNITE ALL HAITIANS. CAMBRONNE ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT THE GOH
   ALSO BELIEVED GEORGES RIGAUD, A LEADER OF THE HAITIAN

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN
(classification) (dissem control)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TDCS -314/01961-72
PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)

RESISTANCE MOVEMENT IN MONTREAL, AND A PROFESSOR RENE SAINT-
LOUIS, WHO IS ALSO LOCATED IN CANADA, TO BE IMPORTANT ENEMIES
OF THE GOH.

6. FIELD DISSEM: SENT TO PORT AU PRINCE, PARIS, SANTO
   DOMINGO, MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, OTTAWA.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(classification) (dissem controls)
MAR 29 72

5
4
3
2
1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

SECRET

MAR 17 23 14271

TDCS-314/02923-71

HTP 1469

AT:

DISSEM BY: IW PER: JSP

FILE. VB. ADOP. CS/DO. FI 5,

ACTION UNIT: WH 13
ACTION NO.: 544
DOP, CA 3, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, DO 4, EUR 5, SOD 3.

SECRET 171719Z MAR 71 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 17429

DIRECTOR INFO PANAMA CITY, PARIS, REP/LANT, SANTO DOMINGO

INTEL 171289533

SUPDATA: EVLEMON/2 FROM EVLEMON/18 FROM SUBJ PORT AU PRINCE

7355 WHO TALKED TO RAYMOND. NO INDEX. FILE: 35-9-11.

FILED: 171719Z

SECRET

201-357,029

Elemaud Joseph Charles.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# Intelligence Information Cable

* ROUTINE
* IN 289539
* PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

DIRECTORATE FOR PLANS

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC SECDEF ACS ARMY NAVY AIR CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONE CRS

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

COUNTRY : HAITI

DOI : MID-MARCH 1971

SUBJECT : RESULTS OF THE INTERROGATION OF CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES AND KESSER BLAIS

CITE TDCS-314/02923-71

DIST 17 MARCH 1971

ACQ : HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (16 MARCH 1971) HTP-1469

SOURCE : A FORMER HAITIAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAD THE CONFIDENCE OF MANY MEMBERS OF THE DUVALIER GOVERNMENT. HIS PAST REPORTING HAS GENERALLY BEEN ACCURATE. HE RECEIVED THIS INFORMATION FROM A HIGH RANKING MEMBER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF.

1. ACCORDING TO SRIG. GEN. CLAUDE RAYMOND, CHIEF OF HAITIAN ARMED FORCES GENERAL STAFF, PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER COMPLETED HIS PERSONAL INTERROGATION OF CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, FORMER PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, AND COL. KESNER BLAIE, FORMER QUARTERMASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES, ON 15 MARCH 1971.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 289539
TDCS-314/02923-71
PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

(FIELD COMMENT: HTP-1467, TDCS-314/02737-71, REPORTED THAT
DUVALIER HAD SEEN BLAIN PRIVATELY ON 9 MARCH 1971 AND BLAIN
AND CHARLES TOGETHER ON 12 MARCH 1971. THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED
THAT DUVALIER HAD AGAIN SEEN BLAIN AND CHARLES ON 15 MARCH 1971.)

2. RAYMOND SAID THAT, IS HIS INTERROGATION OF CHARLES,
   DUVALIER APPEARED PRIMARILY COSCERNED WITH DETERMINING IF
   CHARLES HAD SERVED AS A FUNDING CHANNEL FROM AMERICAN BUSINESSMEN
   TO THE HAITIAN CONSPIRATORS. IN THE COURSE OF THE INTERROGATION,
   DUVALIER SHOWED CHARLES A PHOTOCOPY OF A CASHIER'S CHECK FOR
   $178,823 DRAWN IN CHARLES' BAKE. CHARLES ALLEGEDLY REPLIED THAT
   HE HAD DEALINGS WITH MAKY FOREIGNERS AND HAITIANS. HE DEKIED
   DUVALIER'S CHARGES SAYING THAT, IF HE HAD BEEN INVOLVED, IT
   WOULD HAVE BEEN A PURELY HAITIAN AFFAIR AND THAT HE WOULD FOT
   SULLY HAITI'S HONOR BY SEEKING HELP FROM FOREIGNERS.

3. ACCORDING TO RAYMOND, BLAIS ALSO DENIED ANY FOREIGB
   INVOLVEMENT. HOWEVER, HE SAID THAT ALL THE CABINET MEMBERS
   HAD CONSPIRED WITH HIM AT OKE TIME CR ANOTHER, EXCEPT FOR
   AURELE JOSEPH, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR INTERIOR AND NATIONAL
   DEFENSE; MAX ΑΒΤΟISE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SOCIAL AFFAIRS;
   AND ANDRE DUBE, SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET
(classification) NO FOREIGN DISSEM
(dissem controls)

IN. 289539
TDCS-314/02923-71
PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

AFFAIRS. BLAIN ALSO IMPLICATED ABOUT ONE QUARTER OF THE 49-MAN NATIONAL ASSEMBLY, INCLUDING SUCH PERSONS AS ULRICH ST. -LOUIS, PRESIDENT OF THE ASSEMBLY AND DEPUTIES LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, VICTOR SEVERS CONSTAKI, AND MME. MARCELLE AUGUSTIN. BLAIN ADDED THAT HE HAD ALSO CONSPIRED WITH COL. BRETON CLAUDE, COMMANDER OF THE DESSALINES BATTALION, AND COL. FRED M. ARTY, INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES. BLAIN SAID THAT, LONG BEFORE APRIL 1970, CLAUDE HAD ALSO BEEN INVOLVED IN VARIOUS CONSPIRACIES WITH CLOVIS DESINGR, FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE FOR FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS, LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, AND THE LATE LEON BORDES, AND THAT THESE MEN HAD FORMED A. CLANDESTINE POLITICAL PARTY WITH DE INOR AS PRESIDENT.

4. RAYMOND SAID THAT DUVALIER WAS CONTINUING A SECRET INVESTICATION OF THESE ADMISSIONS, PARTICULARLY IN RESPECT TO POSSIBLE FOREIGN FINANCING OF THE PLOT. IN RAYMOND'S OPINION, DUVALIER WILL TAKE NO ACTION UNTIL THE INVESTIGATION IS COMPLETE.

5. CONCERNING THE MILITARY TRIBUNAL WHICH WAS CONVENED IN EARLY MARCH 1971, RAYMOND SAID THAT THE TRIAL WAS SIMFLY

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

IN 289539
TDCS-314/02923-71
PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

FOR THE SAKE OF FORM. THE SENTENCES HAVE ALREADY BEEN
DECIDED UPON, BUT THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THEM AWAITS WORD
FROM DUVALIER. THE TRIAL OF THE THREE DEFENDANTS CURRENTLY
IN EXILE, ALPHONSE LAHENS, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER,
AND GERARD LOISEVU, IS SCHEDULED TO BE HELD ON
3 APRIL 1971.

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.
   (ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

REPORT CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# Intelligence Information Report

![CIA logo]

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPORT NO. CS-311/07138-70

COUNTRY HAITI

DATE DISTR. 28 AUGUST 1970

DOI LATE AUGUST 1970

SUBJECT PROSPECTIVE RELEASE OF REMAINING POLITICAL
PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL 1970 FOR
ALLEGEDLY PLOTTING AGAINST GOVERNMENT

ACQ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (26 AUG. 1970) FIELD NO. HTP-1435

SOURCE A FORMER HAITIAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAS THE CONFIDENCE
OF MANY MEMBERS OF THE DUVALIER GOVERNMENT. HIS REPORTING HAS
BEEN ACCURATE SINCE 1963. HE RECEIVED THE INFORMATION FROM
AN OFFICIAL OF THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT WHOSE POSITION PROVIDES
HIM ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF ARRESTS
ALTHOUGH HE HAS BEEN REPORTING FOR ONLY A SHORT TIME, HIS
INFORMATION TO DATE HAS APPEARED RELIABLE.

1. ACCORDING TO A HIGH-RANKING OFFICER IN THE PRESIDENTIAL
   GUARD, THE THREE REMAINING POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN
   APRIL 1970 ON CHARGES OF ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING, WILL BE
   AMNESTIED ON 22 SEPTEMBER 1970, THE ANNIVERSARY OF PRESIDENT
   FRANCOIS DUVALIER'S ELECTION AS PRESIDENT FOR LIFE.
   (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: CS-311/06776-70 REPORTED THE RELEASE
   OF THE OTHER POLITICAL PRISONERS ARRESTED IN APRIL AND MAY 1970.)

THE PRISONERS TO BE RELEASED IN SEPTEMBER ARE COL. KESNER
BLAIN, FORMER QUARTERMASTER OF THE ARMED FORCES: CLEMARD
JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

(When completed, this document contains

(distribution controls)
STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR NSA CRS (For Field Distribution see final paragraph)

| CI/ICG  | 2                                       | WH/PRIN           | 1   | PORT AU PRINCE 7103 | HTP-1435                    |
| ------- | --------------------------------------- | ----------------- | --- | ------------------- | --------------------------- |
| CA/INT  | 1                                       | WH/7/DR           | 1   | (IN 151419)         | EVLEMON                     |
| CA/PROP | 1                                       | WH/SDOM           | #   |                     | (EVLEMON-2 from EVLEMON-17) |
| WH/R    | (1)                                     | LWH/PACY (CINCSO) | #   |                     | CS-311/07138-70             |
| WH/7/Ht | 4                                       | REP/LANT          | #   | LIAISON #           | COORDINATING RELEASING      |
| TOTALS  | IE 2, CI 4, FI 3, CA 2, WH 6 (2), DO 1. | RR, BEB           |     |                     |                             |

Charles 201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
CS-311/07138-70

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

HAITI; AND EDMOND PIERRE-PAUL, FORMER CHIEF
PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPREME COURT. ALL THREE MEN,
CURRENTLY CONFINED IN THE NATIONAL PENITENTIARY, ARE IN
POOR STATE OF HEALTH.

2. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.
   (ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEN
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

# SECRET

REPORT NO. CS-311/06776-70

COUNTRY HAITI

DATE DISTR. 13 AUGUST 1970

DOI EARLY AUGUST 1970

SUBJECT RELEASE OF HAITIAN POLITICAL PRISONERS

ACQ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (11 AUGUST 1970) FIELD NO. HTP-1432

SOURCE A FORMER HAITIAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAS THE CONFIDENCE OF
MANY MEMBERS OF THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT. HIS REPORTING HAS BEEN
ACCURATE SINCE 1963. HE RECEIVED THIS INFORMATION FROM AN
OFFICIAL OF THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT WHOSE POSITION PROVIDED HIM
ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON CERTAIN CATEGORIES OF ARRESTS. ALTHOUGH
HE HAS ONLY BEEN REPORTING FOR A SHORT TIME, HIS INFORMATION TO
DATE HAS APPEARED RELIABLE.

1. AS OF 3 AUGUST 1970, FORTY OF THE POLITICAL PRISONERS
   ARRESTED BETWEEN EARLY APRIL AND LATE MAY 1970 FOR ALLEGED
   INVOLVEMENT IN THE ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING OF COL. KESNER
   BLAIN, FORMER QUARTERMASTER OF THE HAITIAN ARMED FORCES,
   AND COL, OCTAVE CAYARD, FORMER COMMANDER OF THE HAITIAN
   COAST GUARD, HAD BEEN RELEASED. BY 7 AUGUST 1970, AN ADDITIONAL
   NINETEEN PRISONERS WERE RELEASED, MAKING A TOTAL OF 59, AMONG
   THE PRISONERS RELEASED WERE FRITZ THEBAUD, FORMER
   SECRETARY OF FINANCE; VOLVICK CAYARD, FORMER DEPUTY AND
   BROTHER OF COL. CAYARD; MAX PIERRE-PAUL, FORMER

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

| STATE    | DIA                | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | CRS | (For Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| -------- | ------------------ | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
| CI/IC    | 2WH/PRIN           | 1    |      |     |     |     | PAIN 7087 (IN 141314) HTP-1432               |
| CA/INT   | 1WH/7/DR           | 1    |      |     |     |     | EVLEMON                                      |
| CA/PROP  | 1WH/SDOM           | #    |      |     |     |     | (EVLEMON-2 FROM EVLEMON-17)                  |
| WH/R (1) | 1WH/PACK(CENCSO) # |      |      |     |     |     | CS-311/06776-70                              |
| WH/7/Ht  | 4REP/LANT          | #    |      |     |     |     | COORDINATING RELEASING                       |
| TOTALS   |                    |      |      |     |     |     | BY CABLE - DEFERRED LIAISON                  |

IE 2, CI 4, FI 3, CA 2, WH 6(2), DO 1.

Charles. 201.357.29


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES
CS-311/06776-70

SECRE T/NO FOREIGN DISSEN

DEPUTY; RAMEAU ESTIME, FORMER SECRETARY OF JUSTICE;
MME. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES; MME. CLEMENCEAU
PROSPER AND HER DAUGHTER MARYSE; AND ALL OF THE
DETECTIVES OF THE PORT AU PRINCE POLICE DEPARTMENT WHO HAD
BEEN ARRESTED.

2. AS OF 11 AUGUST 1970, THE ONLY PERSONS STILL BELIEVED
   TO BE UNDER ARREST ARE CLENARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT
   OF THE COMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI; COL. BLAIN; EDMOND PIERRE-
   PAUL, FORMER CHIEF PROSECUTOR OF THE HAITIAN SUPREME COURT;
   AND A COUSIN OF CLEMENCEAU PROSPER. OF THE PERSONS ARRESTED
   IN THIS CONNECTION, ONLY TWO, CITE DOUGE AND LEON
   BORDES ARE DEAD. BOTH DIED AS A RESULT OF MISTREATMENT
   WHILE IN PRISON.

3. (SOURCE COMMENT: SEVERAL OF THE FORMER PRISONERS,
   INCLUDING THERAUD, MME. PROSPER, AND PIERRE-PAUL, HAVE BEEN
   SEEN ON THE STREETS OF PORT AU PRINCE SINCE THEIR RELEASE.
   ALL OF THE FORMER PRISONERS ENCOUNTERED THUS FAR HAVE EXPRESSED
   ASTONISHMENT AT THEIR HAVING BEEN RELEASED AND ARE UNABLE TO
   ACCOUNT FOR THE UNEXPECTEDLY LENIENT TREATMENT THEY RECEIVED.
   ONE UNSUBSTANTIATED RUMOR CIRCULATING AROUND PORT AU PRINCE
   HAS IT THAT THEIR RELEASE WAS THE RESULT OF PRESSURE EXERTED
   ON THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT BY THE ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN
   STATES.)

4. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.
   (ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

DEPT OF STATE TELETRAM
PORT AU PRINCE 967
DATE: 6 AUGUST LOTO
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: RELEASE OF POLITICAL PRISONERS

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PRDICE シーン
DATE: 8 MAY 1970
CLASSIFICATION: LETTED OFFICIAL USE
SUBJECT: MEASURES TAKEN BY COH AGAINST ALLEGED
CONSPIZATORS

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM
PORT AU PRICE 546
DATE: 8 MA370
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: COMFISCATION ASSETS CLEMARD JOSEPH
CHARLES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

SECRET 231622Z MAY 78 CITE PORT AU PRICE 6379

DIRECTOR

SIllar M379292

1. ACCORDING MORNING PRESS 8 MAY, LEGISLATIVE CHAMBER PASSED DECREE 7 MAY WHICH STRIPPED FOLLOWING *persons* OF HAITIAN CITIZENSHIP AND CONFISCATED THEIR GOODS AND CHATTELS; CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, CLEMENCEAU PROSPER, ALPHONSE LAHENS, AND KESHER BLAIN. STATED REASOS FOR DECREE WAS THAT THESE PERSONS WERE ACCOMPLICES OF REBEL COASTGUARDSMEK. THIS DECREE ESSENTIALLY SARE AS ONE PASSED 27 APRIL ACCORDING IDENTICAL TREATMENT TO COASTGUARDSMEN.

2. PALACE ALSO ANNOUNCED THAT IT WOULD KOT PROCEED WITH EXTRADITION PROCEEDINGS AGAINST COASTGUARDSMEN BUT WOULD JUDGE THEM IN ABSENTIA. THIS ACTION FOLLCYED NOTE RECEIVED BY EMBASSY ON 7 MAY WITHDRAWING EARLIER REQUEST FOR EXTRADITION.

3. NET EFFECT THESE ACTIONS LENDS CREDENCE TO IMPRESSION THAT HAITIAN GOVT PREPARED ACT IN OUTWARDLY LEGAL YAY IF DEALING WITH REBELLION. ONNONE HAND, REXCVAL OF CITIZENSHIP AND CONFISCATION OF PROPERTY LEAVES FAMILIES DESTITUTE WHICH PROBABLY APPLE OBJECT LESSON TO OTHERS CONSIDERING REBELLION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

FORM 3329
USE PVIOUS
EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETAPAT DISSEMINATION
PLDON ONT NOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND-OR INITIALS-SEER BY
SECRET
GROUP 1
1
5
(Ahen F. ed In)
2
5
REPAC COMSCOPY PROM DITED
PADEL:
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FLE NO.
FILE RO RETURN TO
BRANCH

PAGE TWO PORT AU PRINCE 6879 SECRET

WHILE AVOIDING ADVERSE PUBLICITY ENGENDERED BY WHOLESALE
ARRESTS AND KILLINGS IN PAST. ON OTHER, WITHDRAWAL OF
EXTRADITION REQUEST PROBABLY DONE IN RECOGNITION OF FACT
THAT U.S. WOULD NOT HONOR REQUEST AND THUS NEEDLESS
CONFRONTATION WITH U.S. AVOIDED.

4. IS BOTH RESPECTS, THESE MOVES REPRESENT MUCH MORE
   MODERATE RESPONSE THAN HAD BEEN TRUE IN PAST. WHILE THEY
   SUGEEST DUVALIER MAY BE MELLOWING WITH PASSING YEARS,
   INCLINED BELIEVE THAT THEY PROMPTED MORE BY HIS BELIEF THAT
   HIS POSITION SUFFICIENTLY SOLID TO MAKE MORE DRASTIC
   MEASURES UNECESSARY TEMPERED BY MOTION THAT SUCH MEASURES
   RIGHT PROVONE ADDITIONAL REBELLIONS. THUS DUVALIER WOULD
   APPEAR ONCE AGAIN TO HAVE STRUCK FORKASLE POLITICAL BALANCE
   BETVEEN VARIOUS CONTENDING FORCES AND FACTIONS IN HIS
   ENTOURAGE.

5. ON PERSONAL SIDE, FRAYNE'S LIFE SOMEWHAT
   COMPLICATED BY FACT THAT CHARLES WAS HIS LANDLORD AND EFFECT
   OF CONFISCATION ORDER REMAINS TO BE SEEN.

6. NO FILE. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# TRANSMITTAL OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

ORIG: BERYL E BACKMAN
UNIT: WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS
EXT: 4222
DATE: 7 MAY 1970
CONF: WH 15

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
ROUTING:

#074

CA 5, CA PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D, IW

TDCS-314/04593-70

DATE DISTRIBUTED: 7 MAY 1970

|        | DISSEMINATION        |
| ------ | -------------------- |
| WH/REG | 1 WH 7/Htl 7         |
| WH/R   | 2 WH 7 DR 1          |
| WH/FI  | 1 WH SDOM 1          |
| WH/CA  | 1 WH PACY (CINCSO) F |
| WH/7/R | 1 REF LANT           |

PRECEDENCE:
X ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD. BPT, PROJ:
PORT AU PRINCE 6870,6871 (IN 075915, 075925)
HTP-1406, 1405
EVMISER (EVMISER-8)
LIAISON: *

EVALUATION REQUESTED OF:
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR

HANDUNG INSTRUCTIONS (Place X in appropriate space. List electrical addressees.)

RECOMMEND EXO
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT MADE AVAILABLE DCI

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED

SHOW IW

DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO:

EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

USIB PERSONAL ATTN

ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT

NOT FOR LIAISON

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER: R. Oisen

C/WH/7/R
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

RELEASING OFFICER: Robt. H. Rietz

C/WH/R COPY NO.: Charles 201-357029

FORM 1K-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# Intelligence Information Cable

![INTELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE OF PLANS]

STATE/INR DIA MAMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY MAVY AIR) CIA/NACE NIC NSA SDO ONE CIS
FBI SS/ID I&NS

This material contains information effecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 12, U.S.C. Secs 773 and 794, the tranmission of revelahos of which in any manner to an uncurkanzed person is prohinred by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REFORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

# SECRET

CITE TDCS-314/04593-70

DIST 7 MAY 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI APRIL 1970

SUBJECT

03 14 320 MAY70

1. STATUS OF COL, KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF ARMED FORCES, AND CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COMMERCIAL BANK, IMPRISONED FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING
2. DENUNCIATION OF COL. OCTAVE CATARD, COMMANDER OF COAST GUARD, BY LUCKNER CAMBRONNE, DEPUTY FROM ARCAHAIE

ACQ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (1 MAY 1970) FIELD NO. HTP-1406, 1405

SOURCE A HAITIAN UNIVERSITY GRADUATE WHO HAS GOOD CONTACTS AMONG MEMBERS OF THE HAITIAN MILITARY. HE IS A NEW SOURCE AND THE RELIABILITY OF HIS REPORTING HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

*   ROUTINE
    075915
    IN
    075925

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

1.  ONE OF THE SOLDIERS AT THE DESSALINES BARRACKS WHO IS GUARDING COL, KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, WHO WERE ARRESTED IN EARLY APRIL 1970 FOR ALLEGED ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING, SAID THAT BOTH MEN STILL VERE ALIVE AS OF 30 APRIL. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: TDCS-314/03869-70 REPORTED THE ARRESTS OF BLAIN AND CHARLES.)
2.  ACCORDING TO A SOLDIER AT THE NATIONAL PALACE, COL. OCTAVE CAYARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, WAS SUMMONED

*   SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 075915
075925
TDCS-314/04593-70
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

TO THE PALACE ON 22 APRIL 1970 BY PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER
AS A RESULT OF A DENUNCIATION BY LUCKNER CAMBRONNE,
A DEPUTY FROM ARCAHAIE. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: TDCS-314/03869-70
REPORTED THAT CAMBRONNE WAS A MEMBER OF A COMMISSION ASSIGNED
BY DUVALIER TO INTERROGATE THE PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK
OF 1 APRIL 1970.) WHILE CAYARD WAS WITH DUVALIER, CAMBRONNE
TELEPHONED DUVALIER TO SAY THAT CAYARD SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED
BECAUSE HE (CAMBRONNE) HAD IRREFUTABLE PROOF OF CAYARD'S
COMPLICITY IN ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOTTING. DUVALIER ASKED CAMBRONNE
TO REPEAT HIS ACCUSATION WHILE HE GAVE CAYARD THE TELEPHONE
RECEIVER TO LISTEN. FOLLOWING THE CONVERSATION WITH CAMBRONNE,
DUVALIER REASSURED CAYARD OF HIS TRUST IN HIM AND REQUESTED
CAYARD TO ARREST TWO COAST GUARD OFFICERS DURING THE COURSE OF
THAT WEEK. CAYARD AGREED TO FOLLOW THE ORDER, BUT TOLD DUVALIER
THAT HE KNEW THE ADDRESS OF ONLY ONE OF THE TWO OFFICERS.
(FIELD COMMENT: ON 24 APRIL 1970, CAYARD LED AN ABORTIVE REVOLT
BY THE COAST GUARD AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT. SEE TDCS-314/04646-70
AND SUBSEQUENT REPORTING ON THIS SUBJECT.)

3. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, DEFATT, CINCSO, CINCLANT.
   (ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

S-E-C-R-E-T/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

PORT AU PRINCE 472

DATE: 28 APRIL 1970

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: REPORTS OF EXECUTIONS OF PERSOMS ALLEGEDLY
INVOLVED IN COAST COARD ATTACK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL BO 4. DATE

5. ANALYST
7. SOURCE CRYPTORYM 8. DATE OF INFO 9. EVALUATION

6. DATE PROCESSED
10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
    DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

CHARLES
036-009-006
201-357029
PRIN-06803
SEX M DOB ?
15 APR 70
CIT ?
OCC ?
ACCUSED OF COUP PLOTTING

HTP
R 7005080679

FILE IN 201-357029

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

TRANSMITIA.
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION

# SECRET

ORIG. BERYL E. BACKMAN
ROUTING
UNIT WH/7/HAITI/REPORTS
1
4
EXT. 4222
2
5
#104
DATE 13 APRIL 1970
3
6
CONFIRMATION COPIES
WH 15
TDCS-314/04019-70
INFORMATION COPIES
CA 5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI, CI/PS, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5,
FI 6, FI/D, IW, SOD

DATE DISTRIBUTED
13 APRIL 1970
PRECEDENCE

X ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD. RPT., NOL)
DISSEMINATION
WH/REG 1 WH/7/Ht 7 WH/SDOM #
PORT AU PRINCE 6798
WH/R 2 WH/7/DR 1 WH/MIAMI #
(IN 060590)
WH/FI 1 WH/PACY (CINCSO) #
HTP-1379
WH/CA 1 REP/LANT =
EVLEMON (EVLEMON-19)
WH/7/R 1
LIAISON: *
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
OF
STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

# CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
*PIR Olson*
C/WH/7/R
CLASSIFICATION
COORDINATING OFFICER(S)

RELEASING OFFICER

**SECRET**

![GROUP 1 EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION]

*Robert H. Rife*
C/WH/R
COPY NO.
Charles 201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# Intelligence Information Cable

![Intelligence Agency Logo]

- ROUTINE

IN 060590

PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVT AIR CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO ONE C25

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

13 22 02Z

CITE TDCS-314/04019-70

DIST 13 APRIL 1970

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI 9 APRIL 1970

SUBJECT DENUNCIATION BY CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI, OF ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOT

ACQ HAITI, PORT AU PRINCE (10 APRIL 1970) FIELD NO. HTP-1379

SOURCE A HAITIAN PROFESSIONAL MAN WHO HAS THE CONFIDENCE OF MANY MEMBERS OF THE DUVALIER GOVERNMENT. HE IS A NEW SOURCE AND THE RELIABILITY OF HIS REPORTING HAS NOT BEEN DETERMINED.

1. ACCORDING TO DR. JACQUES FOURCAND, ONE OF THE PERSONAL PHYSICIANS TO PRESIDENT FRANCOIS DUVALIER, DUVALIER WAS INFORMED OF THE RECENT ANTI-GOVERNMENT PLOT, WHICH SUBSEQUENTLY LED TO SEVERAL ARRESTS OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS, BY CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI. CHARLES DENOUNCED THE PLOT TO DUVALIER WHEN HE REALIZED HE HAD BEEN "DOUBLE-CROSSED" BY COL. KESNER BLAIN, QUARTERMASTER GENERAL OF THE ARMED FORCES, WHO HAD PROMISED TO MAKE CHARLES PRESIDENT OF HAITI IN RETURN FOR $100,000 TO FINANCE

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

- SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

IN 060590
TDCS-314/04019-70
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

A REVOLT AGAINST DUVALIER. CHARLES ALSO HAD REFUSED TO GIVE THE MONEY TO BLAIN. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: ALTHOUGH SOURCE DID NOT INDICATE HOW BLAIN HAD "DOUBLE-CROSSED" CHARLES, CHARLES WAS REPORTED IN OCTOBER 1969 TO BE FINANCING A PLOT BEING HEADED BY COL, OCTAVE CAYARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, SEE TDCS-314/15048-69. ALSO IN OCTOBER 1969, TDCS-314/15083-69 REPORTED ANOTHER PLOT AGAINST THE DUVALIER GOVERNMENT BEING HEADED BY BLAIN. CHARLES, HOWEVER, WAS NOT MENTIONED IN THIS REPORT AS BEING INVOLVED IN BLAIN'S PLOT.)

2. FOURCAND SAID THE INQUIRY IS CONTINUING. HE SAID THAT HE WOULD DEFEND THE PRISONERS AND ADDED THAT NO ONE WOULD BE SHOT AS HAD HAPPENED BEFORE. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: FOURCAND PROBABLY IS REFERRING TO A SIMILAR PURGE OF SUSPECTED PLOTTERS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT CARRIED OUT BY DUVALIER IN MID-1967, WHICH RESULTED IN THE EXECUTION OF 19 ARMY OFFICERS.) (FIELD COMMENT: TDCS-314/03869-70 AND TDCS-314/03496-70 REPORTED THAT FOURCAND IS A MEMBER OF THE COMMISSION INTERROGATING BLAIN AND THE OTHER PERSONS ARRESTED DURING THE WEEK OF 1 APRIL 1970.)

3. FIELD DISSEN: STATE, ARMY, CINCSO, CINCLANT. (ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# SECRET 291762Z APR 76 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6795

DIRECTOR:

1.  CONSIDERING FACT THAT BLAIN AFFAIR IS FIRST JUICY MORSEL LOCAL RUMOR MILL HAS HAD TO CHEW ON IN SOME MONTHS.

RUMOR CIRCUIT REMARKABLY QUIET AS OF MORNING 9 APRIL.

STATION ASSETS HAVE HAD NOTHING NEW TO REPORT SINCE EVNISER/8'S ACCOUNT OF UNCERTAINTY IN COAST GUARD. EVEN LAPURE INFORMANTS WHO SOMETIMES WORK OVERTIME CONCOCTING RATIONALES OF PAST EVENTS AND GUESSTIMATES OF FUTURE IN THIS TYPE OF SITUATION HAVE BEEN SILENT.

2.  CURRENT BOX SCORE OF DETAINEES COMPRISES BLAIN, DOUGE, BORDES, CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES AND HIS ASSISTANT, APOLLO GARNIER. ALPHONSE LAHENS STILL AT LARGE AND REPORTEDLY UNSUCCESSFUL IN SEEKING ASYLUM AT VARIOUS LATIN EMBASSIES. MXE. LAHENS NO LONGER IN CUSTODY. ALSO CONSTANTIN DUPLESSIS HAS BEEN RELEASED.

3.  NO HARD INFO AND LITTLE INFORMED SPECULATION CURRENTLY AVAILABLE ON NATURE OR EXTENT OF PLOT IF ONE ACTUALLY EXISTED. MOST PERSISTENT RUMOR IS THAT BLAIN SOMEHOW PLANNED SEIZE GC-18 AND LAY SIEGE TO PALACE WITH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

PAGE TWO PORT AU PRINCE 5795 SECRET

PORT AU PRINCE POLICE SOMEHOW PLAYING ROLE OF GROUND
TROOPS IN ATTACK ON PALACE. IF THERE ANY SUBSTANCE AT
ALL TO THIS RUMOR, SEEMS ODD THAT GOVT HAS HOT MOVED AGAINST
COAST GUARD. SEEMS EQUALLY ODD THAT BLAIN WOULD HAVE BEEN
BADMOUTHING COMBAT EFFECTIVENESS OF POLICE IN TALKING TO
EVMENDS LAST DECEMBE? IF HE ENVISIONED SOXE ROLE FOR THEM.

4. OUR TENTATIVE JUDGEMENT AT THIS POINT IS THAT PLOT,
   IF ONE EXISTED, STILL VERY MUCH IN TALKING STAGE AND THAT
   ARRESTS PROMPTED MORE BY INDISCREET TALK BY BLAIN, CHARLES,
   ET AL WHO NOTORICUSLY VOLUBLE THAN REAL CAPABILITY FCR
   ACTION. ALSO BY FACT THAT GOVT HAD NOT TAKEN DECISIVE
   ACTION OF THIS SORT FOR SOME TIE AND DUVALIER MAY HAVE
   CONCLUDED THAT TIME RIPE TO REMIND DISSIDENTS THAT HE STILL
   IN SADDLE.

5. NO FILE. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

DEPT OF STATE TELEGRAM

PORT AU PRINCE 295

DATE: 7 APRIL 1970

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ARRESTS OF COMMERCIAL BANK OFFICERS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service

MIAMIR FLA.

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20535

FILE NO. (If any)

DATE
1-21-70

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or Section 101(a) 15 (G) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.

FAMILY NAME (Capital Letters)
CHARLES
First Name
CIENIARD,
Middle Initial
JOSEPH

COUNTRY OF CITIZENSHIP
HAITI

UNITED STATES ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Zip Code)
UNIVERSITY PLACE 2 E. ORANGE, NY

ARLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF AREVAL
AF 242

Number, Street, City, Province (State) and Country of PERMANENT RESIDENCE
RUE LAMARRE #2 PORT AU PRINCE, HAITI

BIRTH DATE
10-07-39
BIRTH PLACE
CAPOTILLE, HAITI

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
MIAMI, FLA. 1-17-70

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
official dur of status

DESTINATION
USA above

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatery subversive information regarding this alien to the F.B.I.

cc: CIA
Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control

file in 201- 357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINAT ON

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIE

ROUTING OR FOR INITIALS-SEEN

ADVANCE COPY

SLOTTED

SECRET
(When Filled In)

GROUP

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX
YES
NO
CLARIFY TO CO FILE NO.
BY:
S 1720
LAEF TO CO FILE NO.

ORIGIN BY

PER

FILE RD
RETURN TO
PRECEDENCE

WH8 FILE, VR, K.AN DOT C.iclops CILOA FIR HET AANP

SECRET 281630Z OCT C9 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6531

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO DO BASE NEW YORK

AXULE DONOPS EVMEND

REFS: A. DO BASE NEW YORK 7075 (N70934)

B. DO BASE NEW YORK 7106 (N71095)...

28 OCT 69 74697

1. INTERESTED TO NOTE THAT REF A CITES IDENS F AND H
   .EF A AS ONLY POSSIBLY WITTING OF REF A PLOT, WHEREAS IDEN H
   IS SOURCE OF INFO ON REF B PLOT IN WHICH IDER F IS ALLEGEDLY
   PRIME ACTIVIST. POSSIBILITY THUS EXISTS, IF THERE ANY
   VALIDITY TO EITHER REF, THAT REF B IS SIMPLY EFFORT BY IDEN H
   AND/OR IDEN F TO SMOKE OUT INFO ON REF A PLOT FRON EVMEND/1.
   EVMEND/I'S ACTION IN INFORMING IDEN H AND URGING BC TO COORDINATE
   WITH IDEN F SEEMS FOOLHARDY SINCE IT BROADENS SPECTRUM OF LOOSE-
   LIPPED HAITIANS PRIVY TO ONE OR BOTH ALLEGED PLOTS.

2. ALSO INTERESTING THAT BC ENERGES FROM BOTH REFS WITH
   ACTION CAPABILITY OF WHICH WE HITHERTO UNAVARE. WHILE THIS
   POSSIBLY MORE CASE OF EVMEND/I ATTEMPTING CREATE IMPRESSION OF
   IN COUNTRY CAFABILITY THAT ACTUAL FACT, WOULD APPRECIATE ANY
   ADDITIONAL 1.1GIT 29 OCTOBER MEETING ABLE SHED ON BC PERSONALITIES
   AND ACTIVITIES.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

PAGE TWO FORT AU PRINCE 6531 SECRET

3. WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE HQS COMMENTS ON IMPLICATIONS FOR BC OF APPARENT RIFT BETWEEN EVMEND/1 AND EVMEND/4.

4. CONCERNING PARA 5 REF A REQUEST FOR FAST COMMO BETWEEN EVMEND HQS AND BC, HQS MAY WISH CONSIDER FLOATING FRAYNE'S NAME AS PERSONAL FRIEND OF GILBRIDE FROM SAIGON WHO RECENTLY ARRIVED LNGOLD OFFICER BUT PROBABLY WILLING PASS ON PRIVATELY ANY WORD FROM BC. THIS PLOY USEFUL IN SMOKING OUT EVMEND/1 WILLINGNESS IDENTIFY BC OPERATIVES, WHILE LEAVING FRAYNE FREE TO DISAVOW IN EVENT CIRCUMSTANCES ON GROUND SO DICTATE. THIS ALSO PRESUPPOSES EVMEND/1 CONTINUING VIABILITY AS CHANNEL TO EVMEND ORG DESPITE RIFT WITH EVMEND/4 SINCE WE SEE LITTLE VIRTUE IN OFFER OF COMMO CHANNEL BECOMING SOURCE OF FURTHER FRICTION BETWEEN VARIOUS EVMENDS.

5. FILE: 36-124-25/3.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

27 October 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR : Deputy Chief, VH/7

REFERENCE : Your request this subject

Following our receipt of information that Clemard-Joseph Charles had taken a list of requirements into the U.S. Embassy in Port-au-Prince and asked help in filling them, WH Division sent a memorandum on 19 August 1969 to the Chief, DCS, asking that DCS's contact with Louis A. Brun (from whom Charles had received the requirements) be terminated.

The DCS New York office on 29 August 1969 sent a memorandum to Chief, DCS, which reviewed the case, noted Brun had been guilty of sloppy security, and concluded that no further requirements would be given him. This memorandum did not, however, say that contact would be terminated; in fact, it said they would continue to de-brief Brun whenever he returned from a trip to Haiti. This memorandum was sent to Port-au-Prince (HTPW-1347, 17 Sept 1969).

The Station replied (Port-au-Prince 6496, 11 Oct 69) that this was not enough, that the contact should be completely severed. WH/Branch 7 officers then met with Mr. George Musulin of DCS to discuss the matter further, WH/7 officers maintaining that there was more political action hazard to this contact than the FI product justified. Musulin agreed to raise the matter with C/DCS. The result was a menorandum on 16 October 1969 from C/DCS to C/WHD which referred to the original WHD memorandum of 19 August and advised that contact with Brun has been terminated. Port-au-Prince was so informed (DIR 48277, 21 Oct 69).

![signature of James P. Mullen]

James P. Mullen
C/WH/7/HT

SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIO

ADVANCE COPY  ISSUED  SLOTTED

15/120

BY: D BY: 230

BISSCH BY PE

WH 8 FILE. VR.

ACTION: ECZ ales FIZ, CAS, CAPREC, CA/PPOP, MPS/PSEZ,

SECPET 27221CZ OCT 69 CITE DO BASE NEW YORK 7186

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO POF.. AU PRINCE

NO MIACT

AKULE DOMOPS EVFEND

REF A DO BASE NEW YORK 7875 (IN70936)

B DO BASE NEX YORK 7876 (IN 70937)

1. SOURCE PARA 2 BELOW IS IDEN H OF REF B VIA EVMED/1. DOI

CA 25 CCTОБЕЯ.

2. SEPARATE PLOT FROM THAT DESCRIPED REF A IS UNDER WAY HEADED BY IDEN F REF E WITH ALLEGED SUPPORT OF UNIDENTIFIED OFFICERS WHO

PLANNING TO TAKE POWER USING TWO COMPANIES FROM DESSALINES BARRACKS.

IDER F REQUESTS THAT EVMENDS LAUNCH FATE INVASION PLOT DIVERSION SIMILAR TO ONES IN PAST, LETTING IDEN F KNOW DATE AND PLACE INVASICO SUPPOSED TO OCCUR. COUP YOULD THEN EE TIMED ACCORDINGLY. IDEN H

IMPLIED THAT COAST GUARD ONCE ALERTED COULD BE COUNTED C# TO GO ALONG WITH INSURGENTS BUT DID NOT MENTION IDEN A REF B IN THIS CONTEXT.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

3. EVMEND/1 INFORMED IDEN H IN GENERAL TERMS THAT PEF A PLOT **Blain** IS JELLIEC AND ANY ACTION BY IDEN F GROUP AGAINST PRESIDENTIAL

GUARD COULD BE MISTAKE. EVMEND/I INFORMING BUREAU CENTRAL OF IDEN F PLANS AND URGING THEM COORDINATE, SAYS EVENDS WILL NOT ATTEMPT TO FLOAT INVASION STORY OR APPROVE ANY SUCH ATTEMPT ON PART OF EMIGRES.

4. EVKEID/4 HAS NOT BEEN INFORMED BY EVEND/1 OF INFO PAPA

2 ABOVE, ALTHOUGH EVMEND/4 AWARE THAT EVMEND/1 HAS BEEN SEEING **Bully** IDEN H. EVEND/I HAS APPRAISED EVMEND/3 OF GENERAL FEATURES OF REF

A PLAN BUT NOT OF PAPA 2 ABOVE. RELATIONS BETWEEN EVMEND/I AND EVMEBD/4 APPEAR TO BE AT NADIP, HENCE SUGGEST GILBPIDE PLAN DETAILED

DISCUSSION PRESENT SITUATION IN PC WITH BASE PRIOR TO AFTERNOON MEETING WITH EVEND/1 ON 29 OCTOBER.

5. FILE: 35-124-25/3. INDEX DEFER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET 23:3252 OCT 69 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6528
DIRECTOR INFO DO BASE NEW YORK
AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND
REF: DO BASE NEW YORK 7875 (Id 70936)

1. ONLY POSSIBLE INDICATION OF REF PLOTTING IN RECENT STATION REPORTING WAS DELPHIC COMMENT BY EVLEMOB/18 TO E-2 ON 21 OCTOBER THAT WHILE MEN LIKE DESIBOR, RAMEAU ESTIMΣ, FREDERIC DESVAPIEUX MANEUVER TO REPLACE DUVALIER, IT IS ARMED FORCES WHICH HAS THE LAST WORD IN SUCH MATTERS. ALSO THAT THERE ARE TIMES, IN POLITICS, WHER E/18 MUST BE RETICENT DESPITE HIS CONFIDENCE IN E/2'S INTENTIONS, ALSO WHEN E/2 LEAST EXPECTED IT, E/18 WOULD TELL HIM EVERYTHING THAT WAS GOING ON. REMARKS WHERE MADE IN RESPONSE TO 1/2 QUESTION ABOUT IMPACT OF RECENT NOUVEAU MONDE ARTICLE BY ANTOINE HERARD WHICH BEING INTERPRETED BY E/18 AS DUVALIER PLANT FORESHADOWING PURGE OF MORE CORRUPT ELEMENTS IN GOVT. (REACTION OF E-5, 18 AND 16 TO ARTICLE BEING DISSEMED). THUS E/18'S REMARKS HAY SIMPLY HAVE REFERRED TO THIS SORT OF PURGE INSTEAD BROADER PLOT NOTED REF.

2. FRAYNE HAS APPOINTMENT WITH IDEN B REF 0938 27 OCI TO

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

PAGE TWO PORT AU PRINCE 6520 S E C R E T

DISCUSS NEW LEASE OB HOUSE HE OCCUPYING. PLAN USE MEETING
TO OPEN LOW KEY CHANNEL TO IDEN B. REALIZE THIS DUPLICATES
EXISTING CHANNELS OTHER LAPURE OFFICERS AND IDEN B MOTORIOUSLYS
INDISCREET, BUT MAY BE OF VALUE IF REF PLOT JELLS.

3. ALSO PLAN PAY COURTESY CALL ON IDEN A WHO LIVES TWO
   HOUSES AWAY IN CONTEXT GETTING ACQUAINTED WITH NEIGHBORS.

4. RE IDEN I WHO ENCRYPTED EVLEAF/1, BELIEVE UPCOMING
   PERLITE ONE VISIT MAY AFFORD CHANCE GET FIRST HAND READING
   HIS VIEWS. OR FRAYNE MAY APPROACH DIRECTLY AS PERSON TEEGAST
   SUGGESTED WAS WELL. INFORMED ON HAITIAN AFFAIRS. PLS ADVISE
   IF HQS HAS OBJECTIONS TO LATTER TACK.

5. ACCORDING MILAIT, IDEN D REF IS PROBABLY MAJOR JEAN
   THOMAS, PDOB, ST. MARC, HAITI, 5 JUN 35, GRADUATED HAITIAN
   MILITARY ACADEMY '56.

6. UPON CLEARANCE FROM HQS, WILL PASS SUBSTANCE
   PARAS 2 AND 3 REF TO CHARGE. ALSO PLEASE ADVISE WHEN LEGOLD
   INFORMED.

S E C R E T

S E C R E T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

ORIG. BERYL E. BACKMAN
UNIT WH/7 REPORTS, HAITI
EXT. 4222
DATE 23 OCTOBER 1969
CONFIRMATION COPIES WH 18
INFORMATION COPIES DCI, D/OCI, DOP, ADDP, CS/AF
CA 5, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CS/DO, DO 5, FI 6, FI/D, IW

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
#179

ROUTING

TDCS-314/70936-69

DATE DISTRIBUTED
23 OCTOBER 1969

PRECEDENCE
X ROUTINE
BASED CN (FLD. OST., PROJ.)
DO BASE NEW YORK 7075
(IN 70936)
EVMEND (EVMEND-1)
LIAISON: *

DISSEMINATION
WH/REG 1 WE/7 Ht 7
WH/R 2 WH/7/DR. 21
WH/FI 11
WH/CA 11
WH/7/R 1
EVALUATION
REQUESTED
STATE ARMY NAVY AIR
HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS TD IS BEING TRANSMITTED TO PORT AU PRINCE, SANTO DOMINGO,
PANAMA CITY, REP/LANT, AND DO BASE NEW YORK.

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
PR Cison
C/WH/7/R

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
DO/LAR: Kenny (by phone)
RELEASING
C/W HR
COPY NO.
Charles 201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# Intelligence Information Cable

ROUTINE
IN 70936
PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES
STATE/INE DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NM.CC NIC NSA SDO ONE CRS DER FBIS DCS IRS AID USIA

*This material cantons information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Expionage Lows, Tire 38, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmissice of retion of which in any manner to on smarthorized person is prasioned by law.*

NO FOREIGN DISSEY

SECRET

THIS 15 AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

23 21 012 OCT ЕЗ

CITE TDCS-314/15048-69
DIST 23 OCTOBER 1969

COUNTRY HAITI

DOI MID-AUGUST - MID-OCTOBER 1969

SUBJECT PLANS BY HAITIAN MILITARY OFFICER TO OVERTHROW THE DUVALIER
GOVERNMENT AND TO ESTABLISH A JUNTA

ACQ (23 OCTOBER 1969) FIELD NO.

SOURCE A YOUNG HAITIAN EXILE LEADER WHO IS WELL EDUCATED AND WHO HAS A
WIDE VARIETY OF CONTACTS IN HAITIAN EXILE GROUPS IN EUROPE AND
THE WESTERN HEMISPHERE. HIS REPORTING HAS BEEN RELIABLE. HE
OBTAINED THE INFORMATION FROM ONE OF HIS CONTACTS INSIDE HAITI
WHO HAS BECOME INVOLVED IN THE PLOTTING. SOURCE WAS AWARE THAT
THE INFORMATION WOULD BE MADE AVAILABLE TO OFFICIALS OF THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.

1. ALTHOUGH NO SPECIFIC DATE HAS BEEN GIVEN FOR THE ACTION,
   COL. OCTAVE CAYARD, COMMANDER OF THE COAST GUARD, GEN.
   GERARD CONSTANT, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND
   COL. GRACIA JACQUES, COMMANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD,
   ARE LAYING PLANS TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT FRANCOIS

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

IN 70936

TDCS-314/15048-69

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

.SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

DUVALIER AND TO ESTABLISH THEMSELVES AS A JUNTA. THE
PLOT IS BEING HEADED BY CAYARD AND IS BEING FINANCED BY CLEMARD
JOSEPH CHARLES, PRESIDENT OF THE COMMERCIAL BANK OF HAITI,
IN THE AMOUNT OF $600,000.

2. IN THE ORIGINAL PLAN, THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD WAS REGARDED
   AS A MAJOR OBSTACLE TO THE SUCCESS OF THE PLAN AND, THEREFORE,
   CAYARD AND CONSTANT AGREED TO INCLUDE JACQUES IN THE JUNTA ON THE
   GROUNDS THAT IT WAS A NECESSARY EVIL. CAYARD'S ONLY CONTACT WITH
   JACQUES, HOWEVER, HAS BEEN INDIRECTLY THROUGH CAPTAIN THOMAS
   (FNU). (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: THOMAS PROBABLY IS IDENTICAL WITH
   MAJOR JEAN THOMAS, EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL
   GUARD.)

3. BESIDES THE ASSISTANCE THE PLOTTERS HAVE OBTAINED FROM
   INSIDE HAITI, THEY ALSO ARE SEEKING SUPPORT FROM HAITIAN EXILES
   WHO ACTIVELY OPPOSE THE DUVALIER REGIME.

4. (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT: IN MID-MAY 1969, A MILITARY JUNTA
   WHICH INCLUDED CAYARD AND CONSTANT, WAS BEING FORMED TO OVERTHROW
   THE HAITIAN GOVERNMENT. AT THAT TIME, IT WAS NOT CLEAR IF THE
   GROUP HAD ACTUALLY APPROACHED JACQUES, BUT IT WAS THOUGHT THAT
   AS COMMANDER OF THE PRESIDENTIAL GUARD, HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO

•SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

70936

TOCS-314/15048-69

PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

OFFER NECESSARY SUPPORT FOR THEIR PLAN. SEE TDCS-314/07619-69.

THE PLANNING IN MID-MAY 1969 WAS FOR ACTION IN THE EVENT OF DUVALIER'S DEATH. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE PRESENT PLOT IS IN FACT ONLY A CONTINUATION OF THAT CONTINGENCY PLANNING.)

5. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT. (ALSO SENT PORT AU PRINCE AND SANTO DOMINGO)

SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

CLASSIC MESSAGE

(ses7.eda)

ADVANCE COPY 2 SSLEDATED ANSACTION OF THIS COPY P

AT. 1740

SOLUCO

FILE. VR.

DOP Allicies operate, cascopes,

F12

SECRET 221622Z OCT 69 CITE DO BASE HEW YORK 7876 (ALLENSWORTH ACTING)

1. PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PORT AU PRINCE

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

REF DO BASE NEW YORK 7875 (₩ 70936)

IDEHS

A. OCTAVE CAYARD

B. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES

C. GENERAL CONSTANT

D. CAPTAIN FNU THOPAS PROBABLY JEAB

E. GRACIA JACQUES

F. KESNER BLAIN

G. ROLAND MAGLOIRE

H. FARCEL BONY

I. BERTHONY MADHERE

J. FNU RIGAUD

220cr70937

K. FRITZ HYACINTHE, DOB CA 1929, CLOSE ASSOCIATE OF HUBERT LEGROS, EMPLOYED EITHER AT BANQUE COLOMBO-HAITIENE OR BANQUE NATIONALE DE LA REPUBLIQUE.

L. WILNER CADET, BROTHER OF FRANCKEL, DPOB CANADA, 21 JUNE 1936, EMPLOYED SNEM PORT AU PRINCE.

SECRET ST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

Prof/2

'02' CA/REC, FIZ.

SECRET 2016312 OCT 69 CITE DO EAST NEW YORK 7275 (ALLENSWORTH CTING)

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PORT AU PRINCE 220CT68 70536

KULE DOFCPS EVPEND

EF DO EAST NEW YORK 7275/(U70937)

1. SOURCE PARAS 2 THRU 4 BELOW IS BUREAU CENTRAL (DC) REPORTS ATED 16 SEPT THRU 11 OCTOBER. REPORTS ENCODED IN PRIVATE NUMERICAL COS USED BETWEEN EXTENDS AND EC, MAILED TO EVPEND/I OVERT LETTER ROP WHICH SAME AS THAT USED BY EVMOUNT/1.

2. IDENS A, C AND E PLANNING OVERTHROW DUVALIER AND SET UP ELVES AS JUNTA. TIFING NOT GIVEN. IDEN B FINANCING THE PLOT TO ONE OF $622,002. INSIDE WITTING PARTIES ARE IDENS D AND POSSIBLY F. TSIDE WITTING PARTIES ARE EVENT/I, EVMEND/4 IDEN G, AND POSSIBLY DEN H WHO BROTHER OF IDEN F.

3. CHRONOLOGY OF OC INVOLVEMENT IS AS FOLLOWS: 21 AUG, BC ETING WITH IDEN A, WHO INDICATED HE PLANNING SUPPORT COUP WHICH ICIPISKT BUT NEEDS HELP IN REMOVING OBSTACLE OF PRESIDENTIAL GUARD.

: GAVE HIM NAMES OF RELIABLE INDIVIDUALS AT SPECIFIC POSTS AND IGGESTED APPROACH TO IDEN E VIA IDEN D. 11 SEPTEMBER, BC MEETING IN IDEN A WHO REVEALED THAT HE DEALING WITH IDEN C. BC PLACED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

AGE DO EASE W YOU675 SECRET

TO ILOIPECT CONTACT FITF 1085 C VIA DEP 1. 16 05 17 SEPTEMOFP

CCONTACT WITH 1958 I, LEAPSED THAT IDEN A IS HEADINE PLOT. SC SYED FOP CONTACT WITH IDEN A. 23 SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER 30

CETING VITY IDEN A. 23 SEPTEMBER, LAST SC PEETING WITH IDEN S

ROM THAT DATE TO 11 OCTOBER ONLY EC CONTACT WAS IDEN A. AS OF 11 CTO3EP EC FELT HAD COMPLETED FROYER POLE IN PLAB AND UNDERSTANDS HAT IDEES A AND C AGREED TO INCLUSION OF IDEN E IN JUNTA ON GROUNDS HIS NECESSARY EVIL. IDEN A MAINTAINS INDIPECT CONTACT WITH IDEM E IA IDEA D. IDEN C IS IN DIFECT CONTACT WITH IDEN 1. NAMES OF ITTING GUARDS OTHER THAN IDEN-D MOT DISCLOSED BY EC TO EVEROS.

4. C PEPEER WHO CARRYING BALL THIS OP IS IDEN J.

5. PC FEQUESTS FOLLOWING ACTION FROM EVMENDS: ESTABLISHMENT OF AST TWO-WAY COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN SC AND EVTENDS HP, AND AUNCHING OF DIVEPSIOSARY ACTION TO DISTPACT DUVALIER ATTENTION. MENDS I AND 4 PEQUEST RVROCY ASSISTANCE ON FIRST ITEM AND ADVICE SECOND.

6. EVYOUET/I PLARSING TRIP TO NYC 2 NOVEMBER. EVFENDS VOULD CEPT HIM AS COMMO LINK TO BC BUT UNSURE HOW BC VOULD FEACT TO XING HIM WITTING. EVKENOS! PROPOSES THO OTHER ALTERNATIVES FOR TERMEDIARY, IDENS K AND L. COULD ASCEPTAIN FPOP BC SY TELEPHONE "HETHER EITHER OR BOTH ABLE TRAVEL TO US ON SHORT KOTICE. EVMEND/A ITITUDE THESE CANDIDATES NOT YET KNOW.

7. MEETING SCHEDULED FOR EVMEND/I AND GILBRIDE FOR 29 CTOBER. VILL ADVISE RE EVPERD/A AVAILABILITY 32 OCTOBER. LELAND PEETING EVME&D/4 23 OCTOBER.

ECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# SECRET

ORIG: R. LEHMAN:gt
UNIT: WH/7/HT
EIT: 1349-5595
DATE: 21 OCTOBER 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

![checkbox] INDEX ![checkbox] NO INDEX ![checkbox] RETURN TO ![checkbox] BRANCH ![checkbox] FILE RID
![checkbox] FILE IS CS FILE NO.

CONF: SECRET

TO Γ • PORT AU PRINCE

REF: PORT AU PRINCE 6496 (IX 63672)*

1. ON 16 OCTOBER, WODISH ADVISED AKULE THAT IF HAD TERMINATED CONTACT WITH SUBJECT OF REF.

2. FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Subject of Ref is Louis A. BRUN, contact of Cenard Joseph CHAPLES.*

![Signature of WILLIAM V. BROE C/WHD]

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

CS COPY

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

![Signature of DAVID L. SHOCK C/WH/7]

DAVID L. SHOCK
C/WH/7

21 Oct69

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. : 201-357029

RELEASING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

R. LEHMAN:gt
NH/7/HT
1349-5595
21 OCTOBER 1969

SECRET

TO Γ PORT AU PRINCE

21 23 42 OCT 69 CITE DIRECTOR 48277

REF: PORT AU PRINCE 6496 (IY 63672)*

1. ON 16 OCTOBER, WODISH ADVISED AKULE THAT IT HAD TERMINATED CONTACT WITH SUBJECT OF REF.

2. FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Subject of Ref is Louis A. BRUN, contact of Clenard Joseph CHARLES.*

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

DAVID L. SMOCK
C/WH/7

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: DCS Contact With Louis A. Brun

FROM: GSMusulin/bm
DCS/Operatibe) Support Staff
900 Key 31

EXTENSION: 2268
NO: Case 47540
DATE: 16 October 1969

TO:

1. DO/DCSL 10/16 10/16 See Attached Memorandum.

2. Acting Chief, WE Division
   3 D 3107 Headquarters

3. C/WAIF, Hating 20 Oct

4. C/WH7

5. C/WH/7 21 Oct

6. DC/WH/7

7. C/WH/7/Haiti 21 Oct Pls. adrise Pau-Prince.

8. Ruth Done.- by
   DIRECTOR 48277
   dtd 21 Oct 1969

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

16 October 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Acting Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT : DCS Contact With Louis A. Brun

REFERENCE : 19 August 1969 Memorandum To DCS From WH

We have terminated contact with Louis A. Brun.

![signature of JAMES R. MURPHY]

JAMES R. MURPHY
Director
Domestic Contact Service

SECRET

![stamp with text 'Exchri downgrading ast']


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# SECRET

SECRET 102219Z OCT 1969 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6496
(CHAIDEZ ACTING)

DIRECTOR.

RYBAT

REF: HTPW-1347, 17 SEP 69

1. APPRECIATE REF RESPONSE BUT CANNOT SEE HOW
   RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN WODISH AND LOUIS A. BRUN IS
   ALTERED TO ANY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH NEW HANDLING
   PROCEDURES NOR IS THE POTENTIAL FOR COMPROMISE LESSENED.
   THE FINE NUANCES RE WODISH HANDLING OF BRUN(DEBRIEFING
   BUT NO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE
   UTTERLY MEANINGLESS SHOULD BRUN WIND UP IN FRONT OF A
   FIRING SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE
   HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIM RESPONSIBILITY
   FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

2. HARDLY A WEEK GOES BY BUT THAT LNPURE IS NOT
   MADE AWARE OF ANOTHER PLOTTING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH
   CHARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORTS
   HAVE AGAIN REACHED A PITCH STRANGELY REMINISCENT OF THE
   ONE WHICH IMMEDIATELY PRECEEDED HIS ARREST IN 1967.
   CHARLES NOW CLAIMS SUBSTANTIAL SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

PAGE 2 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

GUARD, AND DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TIME IS
TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY
AND CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE THE GC-10 INTO THE
HARBOR TO START LOBBING SHELLS AT THE NATIONAL PALACE.
PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION,
FUEL FOR GC-10, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHT PEOPLE.

3. THE FACT THAT WODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS
   INVOLVED IN ANY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHEME IN HAITI IS
   NOT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1969,
   BRUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FROM
   PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LNHARP OFFICIAL.
   DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES
   TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY
   DIRECTOR 02376. BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED MOTT ING
   GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE THAN
   ENOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY
   DISPATCH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND
   BRUN HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY.

4. THE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUN CITED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

PAGE 3 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

PARA 2, C. REF ACTUALLY TEND TO IMPLICATE HIM MORE IN
INTERNAL PLOTTING. ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY BRJN
IN DIRECTOR 02376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTTING GROUP WHO
WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69. LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDENTIFIED
AS PLOTTING WITH CHARLES AND BRUN PER DIRECTOR 97813,
20 APR 66.

5. 5. STATION HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC
      INFORMATIOS PRODUCED BY BRUN AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES
      ANYTHING BOT KNOWN (RUMOR OR FACT) TO LUPURE, WHICH HAS
      STRONG ECONOMICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAT BRUN
      HAS NO WORTHWHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORTED BY INCIDENT REPORTED
      PORT AU PRINCE 6323 WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LN PURE
      REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE THE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED
      ON BRUN BY VODISH.

6. BRUN IS ADMITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND
   APPARENTLY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT
   BRUN FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSE) IN HAITI,
   THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISKS FOR RVROCK.

BRUN IS A BATURALIZED AMERICAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT WHILE
HE IS IN KAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A HAITIAN. LNPURE CAN GIVE
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/LUNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSLED SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPES
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

SECRET
GROUP I
1 6.
(When Filled in)
2 7
3 8
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4 9
INDEX: YES NO
5 10

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH DESTROY S.G

DISSEM BY
ACTION
INFO:
PID COPY
FILE. VR.

PAGE 4 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

HIM NO PROTECTION.

7. FILE: 201-357029.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONVUNT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPES
[W'sen Filled in]

VUTING AND/OR DUTIAS SEEN BY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRC-E.TED

ADVANCE COPY SLED SLOTTED

INDER: YES NO

CLASSIPY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FLE NO..

FILE RED MET TO

DIESEM BY PER BRANCH DESTROY SIC

ACTION INFO RID COPY FILE VR

218 C/FIL 0/1075 cales C/MP5/86

PREN

SECRET 102219Z OCT 1969 CITE PORI AU PRINCE 6496

(CHAIDEZ ACTING)

DIRECTOR

RYBAT

REF: HTPV-1347, 17 SEP 69

1. APPRECIATE REF RESPONSE BUT CANNOT SEE HOW
   RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN VODISH AND LOUIS A. BRUN IS
   ALTERED TO ANY APPREICABLE DEGREE THROUGH NEW HANDLING
   PROCEDURES BOR IS THE POTENTIAL FOR COMPROMISE LESSENED.
   THE FINE HUANCES RE VODISH HANDLING OF BRUN (DEBRIEFING
   BUT NO BRIEFING) MAY BE UNDERSTANDABLE TO US BUT WILL BE
   UTTERLY MEABINGLESS SHOULD BRUN WIND UP IN FRONT OF A
   FIRING SQUAD. UNDER THESE CIRCUMSTANCES, WE DO NOT SEE
   HOW RVROCK WOULD BE IN POSITION TO DISCLAIN RESPONSIBILITY
   FOR BRUN'S INVOLVEMENT.

2. HARDLY A WEEK GOES BY BUT THAT LAPURE IS NOT
   MADE AVARE OF ANOTHER PLOTTING EFFORT BY CLEMARD JOSEPH
   CHARLES TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER. CHARLES PLOTTING EFFORTS
   HAVE AGAIN REACHED A PITCH STRANGELY REMINISCENT OF THE
   ONE WHICH IMMEDIATELY PRECEEDED HIS RREST IN 1967.

CHARLES NOW CLAIMS SUBSTANTIAL SUPPORT IN POLICE, COAST

SECRET CS COPY 201-357029.

11 Oct 69


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

## PAGE 2 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

GUARD, AND DESSALINES BATTALION. HIS PLAN THIS TIME IS
TO CREATE PANIC IN PORT AU PRINCE BY SETTING FIRES IN CITY
AND CUL-DE-SAC AREA AND THEN MOVE THE GC-18 INTO THE
HARBOR TO START LOBBING SHELLS AT THE NATIONAL PALACE.
PLOTTING GROUP THUS FAR HAS FAILED TO BUY SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION,
FUEL FOR GC-18, AND PAY-OFF THE RIGHT PEOPLE.

3. THE FACT THAT WODISH DOES NOT BELIEVE BRUN IS
   INVOLVED IN ANY CURRENT REVOLUTIONARY SCHEME IN HAITI IS
   NOT VERY REASSURING WHEN WE RECALL THAT AS LATE AS MAY 1969,
   BRUN SERVED AS AN INTERMEDIARY TO PASS ON REQUEST FROM
   PLOTTING GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW WITH LOHARP OFFICIAL.
   DETAILS THIS REQUEST WHICH INCLUDED OPEN CODE MESSAGES
   TO SET-UP MEETINGS AND RECOGNITION SIGNALS GIVEN BY
   DIRECTOR 02376. BRUN MAY NOT BE ACTIVELY INVOLVED PLOTT ING
   GROUP BUT HE IS GUILTY BY ASSOCIATION WHICH IS MORE THAN
   ENOUGH IN DUVALIER'S HAITI TO ENSURE HIS SPEEDY
   DISPATCH SHOULD DUVALIER DECIDE TO POUNCE ON CHARLES AND
   BRUN HAPPENS TO BE IN THE COUNTRY.

4. THE TWO ADDITIONAL SUB-SOURCES OF BRUN CITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

PAGE 3 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

PARA 2, C. REF ACTUALLY TEND TO IMPLICATE HIM MORE IN INTERNAL PLOTTING. ALFONSO LAHENS WAS IDENTIFIED BY BRUN IN DIRECTOR 82376 AS MEMBER OF PLOTTING GROUP WHO WAS IN SEMI-HIDING IN MAY 69. LOUIS LEVEQUE WAS IDENTIFIED AS PLOTTING WITH CHARLES AND BRUN PER DIRECTOR 97813, 20 APR 66.

5. 5. STATION HARVIEWED LIMITED AMOUNT OF ECONOMIC INFORMATION PRODUCED BY BRUN AND CANNOT SEE HOW IT PROVIDES ANYTHING HOT KNOWN (RUMOR OR FACT) TO LNPURE, WHICH HAS STRONG ECONOMICS REPORTING OFFICER. SUSPICION THAT BRUN HAS NO WORTHWHILE SOURCES IS SUPPORTED BY INCIDENT REPORTED PORT AU PRINCE 6323 WHEN CHARLES APPROACHED LNPURE REQUESTING INFO TO SERVICE THE CIRL REQUIREMENTS LEVIED ON BRUN BY VODISH.

6. BRUN IS ADMITTEDLY UNPROFESSIONAL, UNTRAINED, AND APPARENTLY UNCONTROLLED. AS LONG AS WODISH CANNOT PREVENT BRUN FROM CONTACTING CHARLESCOR ANYBODY ELSE) IN HAITI, THIS ACTIVITY WILL CONTINUE TO POSE RISKS FOR RVROCK.

BRUN IS A NATURALIZED AMERICAN OF HAITIAN ORIGIN, BUT WHILE HE IS IN HAITI, HE IS CONSIDERED A HAITIAN. LUPURE CAN GIVE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

RCABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONUT NOTIR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**
(When Filed in:

TOTIR COPIES

GROUP

--
CLIC

ROUTING AMOVORAS-SEDA BY

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPROCUCTION OF THIS COPY POCH BITED

INDICA
VES
NO

OGSEMB
ACTION
RID COPY
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

R-REF TO PILE NO.

FILE BORET. TO
BRANCH
DESTROY ESC

INFO

PAGE 4 PORT AU PRINCE 6496 SECRET

HIM BO PROTECTION.

7. FILE: 281-357029.

SECRET

SECRET
BID


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET

:
R. BERG/gt
WH/7/HT
1349-5595
15 MAY 69

SECRET

PRIORITY PORT AU PRINCE INFO: SANTO DOMINGO DO BASE NEW YORK

02376

REF: PORT AU PRINCE 6024 (IN 57330).

1. GIVEN BELOW IS TEXT OF DCS REPORT CONCERNING
   REQUEST BY HAITIAN OPPOSITION GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW
   WITH U.S. OFFICIAL. DCS REPORT CAME FROM LOUIS A. BRUN
   ON BEHALF OF CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES. BRUN IS CHARLES' NEW
   YORK LAWYER AND BUSINESS REPRESENTATIVE. DCS WAS ADVISED
   THAT WE HAVE NO INTEREST IN CONTACTING ANY REPRESENTATIVE
   OR MEMBER OF PLOTTING GROUP.

2. DIFFICULT AT THIS STAGE TO DETERMINE DEGREE (IF
   ANY) CHARLES INVOLVED IN PLOT. THERE GOOD POSSIBILITY THAT
   CHARLES HAS ONLY HEARD OF PLOT AND ATTEMPTING TO ACT AS
   BROKER BETWEEN PLOTTERS AND U.S, GOVERNMENT FOR OWN INTERESTS.
   IN MID-67, CHARLES USED THE BRUM-DCS CHANNEL IN ATTEMPT
   OBTAIN U.S. GOVERNMENT SUPPORT FOR ONE OF HIS PLOTS.

3. LAHENS, PRU, MENTIONED IN DCS REPORT PROBABLY
   IDENTICAL VITH ALPHONSE LAHENS, FORMER DEPUTY FROM ARCAHAIS,
   WHO IN JUN 68 WAS REPORTED BY DCS TO BE ORGANIZING PLOT

Continued.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

SECRET

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR 02376

WITH GENERAL CONSTANT, COLONEL BLAIN, AND OTHERS. CY. PRAT

AU PRINCE 5247 (IN 40289) (NOT SENT DO BASE NEW YORK NO TRACES EDGARD BONI, PLS PASS REPORT TO AMBASSADOR RCSS. EQS SENDING COPY TO ARA/CAR. REPORT FOLLOWS:

4. ONE OF THE UNDERGROUND OPPOSITION GROUPS IN HAITI IS CENTERED IN THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS: LAHENS, PMU (FORMER DEPUTY, NOW IN SEMI-HIDING); COLONEL KESNER BLAIN (HEAD OF ARMY QUARTERMASTER WAREHOUSES); COLONEL CATARD (HEAD OF THE COAST GUARD): CONSTANT, PMU (CHIEF OF STAFF). THEY WISH TO ORGANIZE A JUNTA, FOLLOWING THE DEATH OR RETIREMENT OF HAITIAN PRESIDENT DUVALIER, AND EXERCISE POWER DURING TRANSITION PERIOD. FOLLOWING TRANSITION PERIOD, THIS GROUP WISHES TO HAVE FREE ELECTIONS AND THEN RETIRE FROM POLITICAL ACTIVITY. LAHENS WOULD LIKE TO BECOME A MINISTER. BLAIN WOULD LIKE DIPLOMATIC APPOINTMENT. CATARD WOULD LIKE TO RETIRE TO HIS-CATTLE RANCH. THE GROUP HAS NO PARTICULAR CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT.

5. THIS GROUP ALLEGES THAT IT COMMANDS WIDE SUPPORT AMONG ARMY PERSONNEL IN PORT-AU-PRINCE AND IN THE HAITIAN HINTERLAND. THE GROUP IS REPORTEDLY WILLING TO WORK WITH ANY

SECRET

Continued.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

PLE SECRETARIAT DIGGERINGATION

TOTAL COPES:

SECRET

SECRET

OTHER NON-HAITIAN POWER.

PAGE THREE

CITE ORECTOR

70233747

6. UNTIL RECENTLY, THE PLAN OF THIS GROUP WAS TO SIT
   BACK, WAIT FOR INTERNAL UPERAVALS AND THAN MOVE IN TO ASSUME
   POWER. THEY DID NOT WANT TO ACT ON THEIR CEN, BUT PREFERRED
   TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF AN INTERNAL UPHKAVAL CREATED BY SOMEBODY
   ELSE.

7. THE MOST RECENT RUMORS CONCERNING PRESIDENT DUVALIER'S
   HEALTH HAVE, HOWEVER, CAUEND THE CROUP TO CHANGE ITS HIND,
   THE BANKAS NOW DECLARE THAT TIME 18 OF THE ESSENCE AND THAT
   AS BOON AS PRESIDENT DUVALIER "GOES ON THE OPERATING TABLE"
   THEY VILL MOVE.

8/ THE GROUP RECOGNIZES, BOWEVER, THAT CONSIDERABLE
DIFFICULTIES LIE IN ITS PATH AND IS MOST ANXIOUS TO DISCUSS THE
ENTIRE MATTER IN SECRET WITH A 0.8. KUYOY, WHAT THEY HAVE TO
SAY TO THIS ENVOY IS NOT KNOWN.

9. THE GROUP HAS ORGANIZED THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURE FOR
   ΤΗΣ ΕΝΤΟΥ ΤO FOLLOW, PIRST, EE BUST SEND A CABLE TO THE
   FOLLOWING CABLE ADDRESS: TELAHAB, PORT AU PRINCE, HAITI.

CONTINUED....

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR ATTITUDE - SEE

THE CABLE MUST READ AS FOLLOWS: "ARRIVING ON (LIST DATE) TO DISCUSS THE SISAL DEAL. PLEASE RESERVE ROOM FOR ME AT THE SANS SOUCI HOTEL." THE NAME SIGNED TO THE CABLE DOES NOT MATTER. THE CABLE ADDRESS IS THAT OF ESTABLISHMENTS LANDRY-BLAIN & CO., PORT AU PRINCE, HAITI. SECOND, HE MUST REGISTER AT THE SANS SOUCI AND AWAIT CALL OR VISIT FROM MAN NAMED EDGARD BONI. BONI IS KESKER BLAIN'S BROTHER. THE ORIGINAL FAMILY NAME IS "BONI"; BLAIN CHANGED HIS NAME, BONI WILL EITHER TAKE THE ENVOY TO TALK TO CONSTANT OR WILL INFORM HIM OF ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR THE INTERVIEW. THE ONLY PERSON PRESENT AT THE INTERVIEW WILL BE CONSTANT AND THE ENVOY. THIRD, WHEN THE ENVOY MEETS CONSTANT HE MUST ESTABLISH HIS BONA FIDES BY SAYING "I HAVE BEEN SENT BY MR. EISENHOWER TO DISCUSS SISAL." THE KEY WORD IS "EISENHOWER."

10. IT WOULD BE PREFERABLE, BUT NOT MANDATORY, IF THE SECRET U.S. ENVOY WAS ABLE TO SPEAK FRENCH." (END OF REPORT)

11. FILE : 36-0-6.

CONTINUED.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET

BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

PAGE FIVE

7023761

*WH COMMENT: On 10 May, Clemard Joseph Charles told Embassy Officer and COS of plot against Duvalier. Date of plot may be advanced now that Duvalier is ill.

Lander Shatuy
for WILLIAM V. BRUE
C/WHD

THOMAS A. CLAYTON
AC/WH/7

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Port au Prince

FROM: Chief, WE Division

SUBJECT: Subject of 201-357029

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

References: A. HTPA 2457, 19 August 1969
B. DIRECTOR 26288, 1 August 1969
C. PORT AU PRINCE 6323, 29 July 1969
D. HTPA 2443, 29 July 1969

1. Headquarters agrees with Station that the con- tinued contact between Subject of 201-357029 and IDEN A, on behalf of WODISH, poses a potential security threat for the LNGARP components in Haiti. Upon receipt of Ref C, the Desk sent a memorandum to Chief, WODISH, on 19 August 1969, which forwarded a resume of the Ref C information, and requested that the contact between IDEN A and Subject on behalf of WODISH be terminated.

2. On 29 August 1969, the WODISH officer who is in contact with IDEK, replied to the Desk's memorandum as follows.

"a. We (WODISH) have carefully considered the Desk's comments re IDEX A and his relationship with Subject. We have concluded that in the matter of the nine questions concerning the activity of foreign companies in Haiti, IDZA A has been guilty at least of sloppy security procedures and (we) have decided to modify our relationship with him."

"b. Subject has never doubted that IDEN A represented a channel to LNHARP authority which he could use to supplement his contacts with members of the LAPURE staff in Port au Prince. IDISH A"

Attachment: UNDER SEPARATE COVER Continued.

IDEES

Distribution:

2 - Port au Prince w/att U/S/C

CS COPY

RI 1 - WE/7/HT

RTPV-1347

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

OFFICE: WH/7/HT/Ruth Leaman:gt

23 SEP 1969

DATE: 17 September 1969

FILE NUMBER: 201-357029

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/WE/7

DATE: 18-9-69

OFFICER: David L. Smock

EXT: 5595

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

HTPH-1347

was originally introduced to WODISH in New York City by Subject on 15 April 1966. Until the early fall of 1967, much of WODISH activity with IDEN A was devoted to arranging contacts with various elements of LNHARP, which IDEN A requested on behalf of Subject, and reporting operational information. To the best of WODISH knowledge and belief, however, none of these contacts produced any tangible assistance to Subject's various schemes. With two exceptions, WODISH relationship with IDEN A since October 1967 has been exclusively that of foreign intelligence collection. The exceptions were Subject's request for a secret meeting with a WOLADY envoy in May 1969, and an independent similar request from another group in the same month. As has been fully reported, IDEN A made it perfectly clear to WODISH and to Subject and to the other group that he was acting only as a channel and that he was not actively involved or interested. We (WODISH) simply transmitted the request. We wish to point out that what the Desk calls IDEN's "Lobbying" for Subject ended before October 1967. During the nearly two years in which the contact in the WODISH New York Office has dealt with IDEN A, the latter has never sponsored or "lobbied" for Subject's various schemes. IDEN A has occasionally relayed information concerning them, but has told WODISH repeatedly that he no longer wishes to be involved politically with Subject.

"c. We wish also to point out that IDEN A, as a regular supplier of foreign intelligence on Haiti, has supplied data which originate with Haitians other than Subject, and, therefore, IDEN A is not merely Subject's mouthpiece. Specifically, IDEN B and IDEN C are two of IDEN A's Haitian sources. IDEN B is a well-known Haitian businessman; IDEN C is a former deputy."

"d. We (WODISH) are not concerned with Subject, but are very much so with IDEN A. We do not believe that IDEN A is involved in any current revolutionary scheme in Haiti. We are, however, disturbed at the unprofessional way in which IDEN A handled the questions concerning foreign companies in Haiti. We did not request IDEN A to consult Subject about the requirements on foreign companies and, in view of the manner in which IDEN A handled our requirements, we shall continue only to accept information which he proffers on his return from his frequent trips to Haiti, and shall refrain from briefing him. We have requested our WOROMP customers to give us an evaluation of IDEN A's intelligence reporting. Unless this evaluation is unfavorable, we shall continue to exploit IDEN A in the manner just described. Insofar as contact between IDEN A and Subject is concerned, (1) we cannot prevent IDEN A from talking to Subject (or anybody else), but (2) we have never in the past and shall not in the future request that IDEN A contact Subject on behalf of WODISH."

3. To date, the WOROMP evaluation of IDEN A's reporting has not been received. However, since WODISH has agreed to refrain from briefing IDEN A prior to any future trips he may make to Haiti, there should be no recurrence of the type of situation described in Ref C.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

Attachment: U/S/C
HTPW-1347, 17 Sept 1969

IDENTITIES: A. Louis A. Brun

B. Louis Leveque

C. Alfonse Lahens

CS COPY

L

CAT I TO HTPO 1347

201-3570279

![photo of document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Port au Prince

Chief, WH Division

Subject of 201-357029

References:

A. HTPA 2457, 19 August 1969
B. DIRECTOR 26288, 1 August 1969
C. PORT AU PRINCE 6323, 29 July 1969
D. ETPA 2443, 29 July 1969

1. Headquarters agrees with Station that the continued contact between Subject of 201-357029 and IDEN A, on behalf of VODISH, poses a potential security threat for the LNHARP components in Haiti. Upon receipt of Ref C, the Deak sent a memorandum to Chief, VODISH, on 19 August 1969, which forwarded a resume of the Ref C information, and requested that the contact between IDEN A and Subject on behalf of WODISH be terminated.

2. On 29 August 1969, the VODISH officer who is in contact with IDEX, replied to the Desk's memorandum as follows..

"a. We (VODISH) have carefully considered the Desk's comments re IDEN A and his relationship with Subject. We have concluded that in the matter of the nine questions concerning the activity of foreign companies in Haiti, IDEN A has been guilty at least of sloppy security procedures and (we) have decided to modify our relationship with him.

"b. Subject has never doubted that IDEN A represented a channel to LHHARP authority which he could use to supplement his contacts with members of the LEPURE staff in Port au Prince. IDEN A

Attachment: UNDER SEPARATE COVER Continued.

IDENS

Distribution:

2-Port au Prince w/att U/S/C

HTPY-1347

SECRET

23 SEP 1969

17 September 1969

201-357029

WH/7/HT/Ruth Lehman:gt

5595

1-RI
WH/7/HT

C/WH/7

David L. Suock

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HTPK-1347

was originally introduced to WODISH in New York City ty Subject on 15 April 1966. Until the early fall of 1967, much of YODISH activity with IDEN A was devoted to arranging contacts with various elements of LEHARP, which IDEN A requested on behalf of Subject, and reporting operational information. To the best of WODISH knowledge and belief, however, none of these contacts produced any tangible assistance to Subject's various scheres. Fita two exceptions, WODISH relationship with IDEN A since October 1967 has teen exclusively that of foreign intelligence collection. The exceptions were Subject's request for a secret seeting with a WOLADY envoy in May 1969, and an independent similar request from another group in the saze month. As has teen fully reported, IDEN A made it perfectly clear to WODISH and to Subject and to the other group that he was acting only as a channel and that he vas not actively involved or interested. We (WODISH) simply transmitted the request. We wish to point out that what the Desk calls IDEN's "Lottying" for Subject ended before October 1967. During the nearly two years in which the contact in the NODISH New York Office has dealt with IDEN A, the latter has never sponsored or "lobbied" for Subject's various schemes. IDEN A has occasionally relayed information concerning then, tut has told FODISH repeatedly that he no longer wishes to be involved politically with Subject.

"c. We wish also to point out that IDEN A, as a regular supplier of foreign intelligence on Haiti, bas supplied data vaich originate with Haitians other than Subject, and, therefore, IDEM A is not rely Subject's southpiece. Specifically, IDES B and IDEN C are two of IDEN A's Haitian sources. ICEN B is a well-known Haitian businessman; IDEN C is a forner deputy.

"d. Ve (FODISH) are not concerned with Subject, but are very much so with IDEN.A. We do not believe that IDEN A is involved in any current revolutionary schene in Haiti. Ve are, however, disturbed at the unprofessional way in which IDEN A handled the questions concerning foreign companies in Haiti. We did not request IDEN A to consult Subject about the requirements on foreign companies and, in view of the manner in which IDEN A handled our requirements, we shall continue only to accept information which he proffers on his return from his frequent trips to Haiti, and shall refrain from briefing his. We have requested our VORONP customers to give us an evaluation of IDEN A's intelligence reporting. Unless this evaluation is unfavorable, we shall continue to exploit IDEN A in the manner just described. Insofar as contact tetween IDEN A and Subject is concerned, (1) we cannot prevent IDEN A from talking to Subject (or anybody else), but (2) we have never in the past and shall not in the future request that IDEM A contact Subject on behalf of VODISH.".

3. To date, the VOROEP evaluation of IDENA'S reporting has not been received. However, since VODISH has agreed to refrain from briefing IDEN A prior to any future trips he nay mke to Haiti, there should te no recurrence of the type of situation described in Ref C.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

Attachment: U/S/C
HTPN-1347, 17 Sept 1969

IDENTITIES: A. Louis A. Brun

B. Louis Leveque

C. Alfonse Lahens


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# UNITED STATES GONMENT

Memorandum SECRET

TO: Director, Domestic Contact Service

ATTN: OSS (Hasulin)

FROM: Chief, New York Field Office

NY#632-69

DATE:29 August 1969

SUBJECT: DCS Relationship with Louis A.Brun

Ref: WH/7 Memoranda, 28 May 69, and 19 Aug 69, same subject

1. We have carefully considered WH/7's comments about Louis A. Brun and his relationship with Clemard Joseph Charles. We have concluded that in the matter of the nine questions concerning the activity of foreign companies in Haiti Eran has been guilty at least of sloppy security procedures and have decided to modify our relationship with him.

2. Charles has never doubted that Brun represented a channel to US government authority which he could use to supplement his contacts with members of the US Embassy staff in Port-au-Prince. Brun vas originally introduced to DCS in New York City by Charles on 15 Apr 1966 (see memorandum FY-251-66). Until the early fall of 1967, mich of our activity with Brun was devoted to arranging contacts with verious elements of the US goverment, which Brun requested on becalf of Charles, and reporting operational information. To the best co our knowledge and belief, however, none of these contacts produced any tangible assistance to Charies's various schemes. With two exceptions, our relationship with Brun since October 1967 has been exclusively that of foreign intelligence coliection. The exceptions were Charles's request for a secret meeting with a US envoy in by 1969 and an 15-dependent sinilar request from acother group in the same month. As has been fully reported, Brun nade it perfectly clear to us and to Charies and to the other group that he was acting only as a channel and that he was not actively involved or interested. We simply trans-mitted the requests. We wish to point out that what WH/7 calis Brun's "Lobbying" for Charles ended before October 1967. During the rearly two years in which Mitchell has dealt with Brun, the latter has never sponsored or "Lobbied" for Charies's various schemes. He has occasionally relayed information concerning them, but has told us repeatedly that he no longer vishes to be involved politically with Charles.

SECRET

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

SECRET

- 2 -

NY#632-69
29 August 1969

3. We wish also to point out that Brun, as a regular supplier of foreign intelligence on Haiti, has supplied data which originate with Haitians other than Charles, and, therefore, that Brun is not merely Charles's mouthpiece. Specifically, Louis Leveque and Alfonse Lahens are two of Brun's Haitian sources. Leveque is a well-known Haitian businessman; Lahens is a former deputy.

4. We are not concerned with Charles, but are very much so with Brun. We do not believe that Brun is involved in any current revolutionary scheme in Haiti. We are, however, disturbed at the unprofessional way in which Brun handled the questions concerning foreign companies in Haiti. We did not request Brun to consult Charles about the requirements on foreign companies and in view of the manner in which Brun handled our requirements we shall continue only to accept information which he proffers on his return from his frequent trips to Haiti and shall refrain from briefing him. We have requested our DD/I consumers to give us an evaluation of Brun's intelligence reporting. Unless this evaluation is unfavorable, we shall continue to exploit Brun in the manner just described. Insofar as contact between Brun and Charles is concerned, (a) we cannot prevent Brun from talking to Charles (or anybody else) but (b) we have never in the past and shall not in the future request that Brun contact Charles on behalf of DCS.

6. Please pass the foregoing information to WH/7.

![signature of JACKSON R. HORTON]

JACKSON R. HORTON

JEMitchell:kf

File: Louis A. Brun, President
B&B International Corporation
230 Fifth Avenue
New York City

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# Intelligence Information report

![CIA logo]

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

**CONTROLLED DISSEM**

**CONFIDENTIAL**

**NO DISSEM ABROAD**

**COUNTRY** Haiti

**REPORT NO.** 00-B-321/24207-69

**SUBJECT** New Opposition Group Allied With Clemard Joseph Charles/Outline of Charles's Future Political Plans

**DATE DISTR.** 27 AUG 1969

**NO. PAGES** 2

**REFERENCES**

Supplement to: 00-B-321/06913-69
00-B-321/14515-69

**DATE OF INFO.** Late Jul 69

C-DC9-55300

**PLACE & DATE ACQ.** Port-au-Prince/Late Jul 69

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

**SOURCE** Naturalized US citizen of Haitian birth, who makes frequent trips to Haiti. Source maintains close contact with Haitians in the US and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti.

1.  Opponents of Haitian President Francois Duvalier have formed a new political opposition group. The following are members: Colonel Cayard (Commandant of the Haitian Coast Guard); Captain Daniel (assistant to Cayard); Gérard Constant (Haitian Army Chief of Staff); Colonel Kesner Elain (in charge of Haitian Army quarter-master depots); and Colonel Gracia Jaermes (Commandant of the Presidential Palace Guard). [ See 00-3-321/05913-69 (paragraph 2-e) and 00-B-321/14515-69 (paragraph 3) for earlier data concerning some of the members of this group. ]

2.  This group is now working with Clemard Joseph Charles and has formulated, largely under the direction of the latter, a tentative political plan for the organization of a post-Duvalier Haiti. The group is anxious to act, because some of the members, notably Daniel and Cayard, fear that they will be arrested in the not-too-distant future. The entire membership displays, however, the trait common to all Haitian opposition groups: they will not act until President Duvalier dies, becomes totally incapacitated or is overthrown by somebody else. Jacques is an important addition to the group. He is completely loyal to President Duvalier, but has no use for the other members of the Duvalier family. Consequently, he will play no active part unless the President in some manner disappears from the scene.

3.  This group still wishes to exercise power during a transitional period following President Duvalier's departure (see 00-B-321/14515-69 (paragraph 3)). Charles does not want to hold any political appointment during this transition period, but plans to recover his position as the head of the Haitian Chamber of Commerce and travel abroad, to raise money for foreign economic assistance to Haiti. He plans to establish a political party, to be known as TOP (Travail,

![classification markings]

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

CHARLRES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

CONTROLLED DISSEM                                                                         NO DISSEM ABROAD

'CONFIDENTIAL                                                                                    00-B-321/24207-69

-2-

Ordre, Progres). Charles hopes that TOP will become one of two or three political parties in the post-Duvalier period and is convinced that TOP will win a constitutional victory at the polls and propel hin to power. In the meantime, Colonel Kesner Blain will be the head of the provisional government. Blain has no long-range political ambitions. Charles and his colleagues plan a new constitution for Haiti, which will provide for a President and for a Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will exercise the effective power. Charles expects : that TOP's electoral victory will make him, as TOP's leader, Prime Minister in the new constitutional government.

Reportedly, Charles recently received from the US (no additional data available) the sum of US$230 thousand. This money is to be used to finance the overthrow of President Duvalier. I cannot confirm the accuracy of this reported gift.

-end-

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

R. LEHMAN:gt
WH/7/HT
1349-5595
21 AUGUST 1969

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OP INITIALS - SEEN BY

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FILE, VR. DoA. RILAN C. clops 52

SECRET

DO BASE NEW YORK

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 31844 *

IDENTITY: MR. JOHN MITCHELL

END OF MESSAGE

Cable Secretariat: Pis insert DIR number.

WALTER O'BRIEN
C/DOI/2

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

JOHN R. HORTON
AC/WED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Charles


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# 14-00000

ORG:
R. LEHMAN:gt
UNIT:
WH/7/HT
EXT:
1349-5595
DATE:
21 AUGUST 1969

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

CONF:
FILE IN CS FILE NO.
INFO FILE. V. fr. 4. RILAN. Gicalops. 52.

SECRET
WH/7/Ht
Chief

DO BASE NEW YORK 21 21 532 9

IATE DIRECTOR
Extf

AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND
REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 26288

I/A
R/03184%
File Chuli
IN CONTACT

1. ON 21 AUGUST, IDEN, WODISH NEW YORK REP WHO HANDLES
   WITH LOUIS A. BRUN, SUBJECT OF REF, PHONED WODISH WASHINGTON
   OFFICE TO INQUIRE IF EVHEND-1 OR THE EVMEND ORGANIZATION
   WAS OF INTEREST TO RVROCK. BASIS FOR INQUIRY IS THAT BRUN
   HAS REPEATEDLY MENTIONED TO IDEN THAT EVMEND-1 AND HIS
   ORGANIZATION ARE DEEPLY INVOLVED IN EXILE WORK IN NEW YORK
   AND THAT BRUN SUSPECTS THEY HAVE SOME CONNECTION WITH
   RVROCK. WODISH REPS SPECULATE THAT BRUN SEEKING CON-
   FIRMATION OF RVROCK CONNECTION AND THAT BRUN MAY TRY
   PENETRATE EVMEND ORGANIZATION.

2. WODISH WASHINGTON REP WAS INFORMED THAT EVMEND-1
   AND HIS ORGANIZATION ARE OF INTEREST TO WOMACE AND THAT
   IDEN SHOULD REFRAIN FROM MAKING ANY CONTACT WHATSOEVER
   WITH THEM. WODISH AGREED PASS ABOVE TO IDEN AND SUGGEST
   WODISH RELATIONS WITH BRUN BE DISCONTINUED.

3. IN VIEW ABOVE, REQUEST CLELAND TELL EVMEND-1
   CONTINUED.....

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP
Excluded from αυδοπιστής
deangding

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISFERDINATION
CONF:

FILE, VB,

SECRET

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR ATALS-SEEN BY
1
2
3
4
6
7
8

INDEX
NO ISDEX
RETURN TO
DRARCH
FILE RED
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR
731844

DROP ANY CONTACT HE MAY HAVE WITH BRUN, SINCE BRUN SUSPECTS
HE CONNECTED WITH RVROCK AND MAY BE TRYING CONFIRM..

4. FILE: 36-124-25/3.

END OF MESSAGE

WE COMMENT: * BRUN, who collaborator of Clemard Joseph CHARLES on political matters in Haiti, is contact of WODISH, N.Y. office.

![signature of Walter O'Brien]
WALTER O'BRIEN
C/DOI/2

![signature] DOI/B2

![signature of John R. Horton]
JOHN R. HORTON
AC/WHD

SECRET
GROUP
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFIC, IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRET

15 AUG 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT: DCS Case 47540 - Contact with
Louis A. Brun/Clemard Joseph Charles

1. On 29 July 1969, Station Port au Prince advised that Clemard Joseph Charles had passed a list of nine questions concerning the Haitian economy to an official of the United States Embassy in Port au Prince. The list of questions was written in English in standard U.S. Government format and, although sterile, appeared to be intelligence requirements. Charles told the Embassy official that he had just finished a "big job" for the Pentagon and implied that the list also came from the Pentagon. The Embassy official suspected that Charles had passed a copy of the list to the National Palace.

2. On 2 August, a representative of the WH/Haiti Desk contacted Mr. George Husulin, Operational Support Staff of DCS, and learned that the DCS office in New York had briefed Mr. Louis A. Brun and had orally passed a List of CIRI. requirements to Brun concerning Haiti prior to his trip to Haiti during the week of 21 July. Mr. Musulin speculated that Brun had probably noted the DCS requirements on paper and then had passed a copy to Charles upon his arrival in Haiti.

3. For a number of years, the United States Government has been aware of the political ambitions of Charles and his alleged plotting to overthrow the Duvalier regime. In 1967, this rather open plotting led to his imprisonment for over one year. Also, since May 1963, Charles has been trying to obtain support from the United States Government for his plots but he has been consistently rebuffed. Charles is not held in high esteem by U.S. officials and his motives are highly questionable. He owes his position in Haiti to his relationship with Duvalier and his ability to successfully manage some of

SECRET

Charles Yale


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

the more notorious financial rackets of the regime. Charles enjoys no political foliowing and even the "plots" with which he is associated are viewed with considerable reserve. For example, we have never been able to confirm that Charles was involved with the "military junta" formed in May 1969, as he claimed. In February 1959, the U.S. Embassy in Port au Prince commented that, with regard to the most recent plotting of Charles, "the possibility cannot be excluded that Charles....could be a provocation to determine the real motives of the United States Government towards the Duvalier regime." We concur in the Embassy's views.

4. During the past three years, the WH Division has been kept advised of the contact between DCS and Brun and his relationship with Charles. We are also aware from DCS and other sources of the efforts by Brun to obtain support from the United States Government for Charles. Brun is, of course, a close collaborator of Charles and a business representative of his in New York City. Brun has contacted officials of the Department of Defense, the Department of State, and even a person with access to President Johnson on Charles' behalf. The Chief of Caribbean Affairs of the Department of State categorically told Brun in June 1967 that the United States Government was not interested in supporting the plots of Charles or anyone else against Duvalier, but this advice seems to have fallen on deaf ears. The most recent example of Brun's lobbying was in May 1969 when Brun passed on to DCS a request from Charles for a secret meeting between a U.S. envoy and a representative of the "military junta." Brun's involvement with Charles requires that he be considered a biased source of information. While some of the information Brun has obtained from Charles has been of interest, there is hardly anything that was not available through other channels and indeed, much of it was slanted.

5. As was set forth in WH/7 memoranda to the Operational Support Staff, DCS, on 16 July 1968 and 28 May 1969, we interpose no objection to DCS maintaining contact with Brun for its own purposes. However, the

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

SECRET

relationship between Brun and Charles has now taken on operational characteristics (agent/sub-agent) with Brun levying requirements on Charles in Haiti to service on behalf of DCS. The relationship between Brun and Charles also has manifested political and security aspects which could adversely affect the interests of the United States Government regarding Haiti. Accordingly, we request that the contact between Brun and Charles on behalf of DCS be terminated.

Joseph John R. Horton

John R. Horton
Acting Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

DDP/WH/7/Ht: R.Berg st

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/WHD
1 - WH/7/Ht Chrono
1 - WH/Registry
1 - WH/7/HT (CHARLES)

-3-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO.
Chief of Station, Port au Prince

SUBJECT
Subject of 201-357029

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
REFERENCES: A. DIRECTOR 26288 dated 1 August 1969

B. HTPA-2443 dated 29 July 1969

ACTION REQUIRED: See Paragraph 5.

1. The Station would like to offer its views on the WODISH contact, through Identity of Paragraph 1 Reference A (hereinafter IDEN), with 201-357029, as well as on the question of the requirements which 201-357029 gave LNPURE and which were forwarded to Headquarters in Reference B.

2. Since IDEN has been told that his contact is with LNSHOE and since he has told 201-357029 that fact, and since 201-357029 has apparently, in his mind at least, converted that fact into contact with RVROCK, and has probably spread both stories with his associates and thereby throughout the local milieu, we have, in effect, a dangerous security situation. When we consider that the LNPURE receives all the information that 201-357029 gives IDEN anyway, and most of the time receives the information directly from 201-357029, then we have an operation that is difficult to justify.

3. In the case of the requirements forwarded with Reference B, we have a situation in which WODISH levied requirements on 201-357029, through IDEN. 201-357029 then turned those requirements over to LNPURE which returned then via 201-357029 and IDEN to WODISH. Why not cut out the middleman and the security complications, and save the headaches?

4. The Station feels that the WODISH handling of 201-357029 results in a case that has the potential of causing severe problems for AKULE, and that it could well be that AKULE will be made to bear the blame since elements within RVROCK might feel that the ultimate responsibility for supervision of the case lies with AKULE.

Distribution:
3-C/WHD

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HTPA-2457

DATE
19 August 1969

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DOC FILE NUMBER
201-357029


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

CLASSIFICATION

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

DISPATC SYMBOL AND ALREA

HTPA-2457

5. We would appreciate obtaining Headquarters' views on our thoughts as expressed above as well as on what seens to be a contradiction between Reference A, paragraph 2 and the evidence presented in Reference B Attachment. It appears unlikely to us that IDEN could have typed the Attachment.

![Signature of Vincent H. RACICOT]

Vincent H. RACICOT

201-357029

CLASSIFICATION

FORM 53a USE PREVIOUS EDITION,

SECRET

CONTINUED

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

FEI DOCUMENT

DATE: 17 AUGUST 1962

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES

FEI FILE NO: 105-6311 (MIAMI)

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-134

DATE: 13 AUGUST 1969

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

FROM AMEMBASSY PORT AU PRINCE

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES OF CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Domestic Contact Service

# SUBJECT : DCS Case 47540 - Contact with Louis A. Brun/Clenard Joseph Charles

1. On 29 July 1969, Station Port au Prince advised that Cleward Joseph Charles had passed a list of nine questions concerning the Haitian economy to an official of the United States Embassy in Port qu Prince. The list of questions was written in English in standard 5.8. Government format and, although sterile, appeared to be intelligence requirements. Charles toid the Entassy official that he had just finished a "big jot" for the Pentagon and implied that the list also came from the Pentagon The Embassy official suspected that Charles had passed a copy of the list to the National Palace.

2. On 2 August, a representative of the WH/Haiti Desk contacted Mr. George Husulin, Operational Support Staff of DC, and learned that the DCS office in New York bad briefed Mr. Louis A. Brun and had orally passed a list of CIRL requirements to Erun concerning Haiti prior to his trip to Haiti during the week of 21 July. Mr. Husulin speculated that Brun had probably noted the DCS requirements on paper and then had passed a copy to Charles upon his arrival in Haiti.

3. For a mucher of years, the United States Government has been aware of the political ambitions of Charles and In his alleged plotting to oerthrow the Duvalier regine 1967, this rather open plotting led to his imprisonment for over one year. Also, since May 1963, Charles has been trying to obtain support from the United States Government for his plots but he has been consistently rebuffed Charles is not held in high esteen by U.8. officials and his motives are highly questionablo He oves his position in Haiti to his relationship with Duvalier and his ability to successfully manage some of the more notorious financial rackets of the regine Charles enjoys no political following and even the "plots" with which he is associated are viewed with con- siderable reserve For example, we have never been able to confirm that Charles was involved with the "military junta" formed in May 1969, as he claimed. In February 1969, the

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

-2-

U.S. Embassy in Port au Prince commented that, with regard to the most recent plotting of Charles, "the possibility cannot be excluded that Charles could be a provocation to determine the real motives of the United States Government toward the Duvalier regime." We concur in the Embassy's views.

4. During the past three years, the WH Division has been kept advised of the contact between DCS and Brun and his relationship with Charles. We are also aware from DCS and other sources of the efforts by Brun to obtain support from the United States Government for Charles. Brun is, of course, a close collaborator of Charles and a business representative of his in New York City. Brun has contacted official's of the Department of Defense, the Department of State, and even a person with access to President Johnson on Charles' behalf. The Chief of Caribbean Affairs of the Department of State categorically told Brun in June 1967 that the United States Government was not interested in supporting the plots of Charles or anyone else against Duvalier, but this advice seems to have fallen on deaf ears. The most recent example of Brun's lobbying was in May 1969 when Brun passed on to DCS a request from Charles for a secret meeting between a U.S. envoy and a representative of the "military junta." Brun's involvement with Charles requires that he be considered a biased source of information. While some of the information Brun has obtained from Charles has been of interest, there is hardly anything that was not available through other channels and indeed, such of it was slanted.

5. As was set forth in WH/7 memorandums to the Operational Support Staff, DCS, on 16 July 1968 and 28 May 1969, we interpose no objection to DCS maintaining contact with Brun for its own purposes. However, the relationship between Brun and Charles has now taken on operational characteristics (agent/sub-agent) with Brun levying requirements on Charles in Haiti to service on behalf of DCS. The relationship between Brun and Charles also has manifested political and security aspects which could adversely affect the interests of the United States Government regarding Haiti. Accordingly, we request that the contact between Brun and Clemard Joseph Charles on behalf of DCS be terminated.

William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

ORIG: EUTH LEHMAN; nvs
UNIT: WE/7/HT
EXT: 5595/1349
DATE: 1 AUGUST 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: DKB PER
CONF: W48 FILE. VR. RIAN DO5, Fiz. Gicalops aloa.

S-E-C-R-E-T

CITE DIRECTOR 6288

TO Γ PORT AU PRINCE 01 22 22 z Auc
INFO: DO BASE NEW YORK
REF: PORT AU PRINCE 6323 (IN 12581)*

1. PER REF REQUEST, ONE LUIS BRUN, WELL KNOWN COLLABORA-
   TOR OF SUBJECT REF ON POLITICAL MATTERS IN HAITI, IS CONTACT
   OF WODISH OFFICE, NEW YORK. PRIOR TO BRUN'S TRIP TO EAITI,
   WEEK OF 21 JULY, WODISH BRIEFED BRUN AND ORALLY PASSED LIST
   OF CIRL REQUIREMENTS ON HAITI. FYI, BRUN BELIEVES WODISH
   CONTACT IS FROM DEFENSE AND THAT REQUIREMENTS LEVIED BY DOD.

2. IT WODISH BELIEF THAT BRUN PROBABLY NOTED REQUIRE-
   MENTS ON PAPER FOLLOWING BRIEFING, AND PASSED COPY TO SUBJECT
   REF UPON HIS ARRIVAL IN HAITI.

3. FYI, SUBJECT REF WAS REGISTERED IN INTERAGENCY
   SOURCE REGISTER UNTIL 17 MARCH 69, WHEN ACSI TERMINATED HIM,
   WITHOUT PREJUDICE. SUBJECT WELL KNOWN FOR HIS REPEATED
   ATTEMPTS OBTAIN USG BACKING FOR HIS PLANS TO OVERTHROW DUVALIER.

Continued

CS COPY

S-E -C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

S-E-C-R-E-T

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

S-E-C-R-E-T

PAGE 2

CITE DIRECTOR 26288

4. WODISH BRIEFED ON CONTENTS REF AND PROMISED TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION.

5. FILE: 201-357029.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH Comment: Clemard Joseph CHARLES passed list of questions to EXBOFF re Haitian economy. Advised Emb. He had finished "big job" for Pentagon. Advise if list of WOFIRM origin.

Robert Wolfe

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

FI/DCG

DOI/B-2

CHARLES B. DICKENS
AC/WH/7

REPRODUION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

BLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
RSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
**SECRET**
(When Filed)

TOTAL COPIES 22 ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
GROUP 1:
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PRO-BEC-B IS

VANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
INFO
AT: 30 PER
REF TO FILE NO.
FILE REF. RET. TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SG
ISSUED BY:
ACTION RID COPY FILE VR. RILAN 204 DDP ADOP CIAO 52 CI
WH8
cilops
F402
SECRET 29205 Z JUL 69 CITE PORT AU PRINCE 6323 (RACICOT ACT ING)
DIRECTOR INFO DO BASE NEW YORK 29 Jul 69 12581
AKULE DOMOPS EVMEND

1 1. CLEMARD JOSEPH CHARLES PASSED TO EMBOFF COPY OF LIST
OF 9 QUESTIONS WRITTEN IN ENGLISH DEALING WITH HAITIAN ECONOMY.
MENTIONED HE HAD JUST FINISHED "BIG JOB" FOR PENTAGON AND
IMPLIED LIST ALSO CAME FROM PENTAGON. ALTHOUGH STERILE, QUES-
TIONS WRITTEN IN STANDARD GOVERNMENT FORMAT AND APPEAR TO BE
INTEL REQUIREMENTS.

1. 2. STATION POUCHING LIST TO HQS ONLY PER HTPA 2443 DTD
      29 JULY SINCE CANNOT DUPLICATE LOCALLY. WOULD APPRECIATE
      LEARNING IF LIST IS OF VOFIRM ORIGIN. FYI EMBOFF SUSPECTS
      CHARLES HAS PASSED LIST AT PALACE AND STATION THEREFORE FEELS
      SECURITY ASPECTS RE HANDLING CHARLES BY ANY USG AGENCY SHOULD
      BE REVIEVED. SINCE CHARLES HAD PASSED LIST TO EMBASSY FOR
      ANSWERING OF QUESTIONS, IT WOULD APPEAR "INTELLIGENCE" COULD
      HAVE BEEN OVERTLY OBTAINED.

2. FILE: 281-357029.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR NOEXING

TO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

NO INDEXHING REQUIRED

INFO
Vith
ONELY QUALIFIED DESIK
CAN JUDGE BICOCING

FROM
Chief of Station, Port au Prince (VHR Acting)

MICROFL

SUBJECT
Subject of 201-357029

ACTION BEQUERED-REFERENCES

REFERENCE: Port au Prince 6323 dated 29 July 1969.

Per Reference attached is the list of questions given Subject.

Vincent H. RACICOT

Attachment:
As stated above (h/w)

Distribution:
3 - C/LhD w/att h/w

CS COPY

DISPAJON
HTPA-2443
DATE
29 July 1969

CLASSIFICATION
SECETT
201-3570


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

US manufacturers are setting up subsidiary companies in Haiti or are forming partnerships with Haitian enterprises to produce such items as underwear, baseballs, footwear and other export items. They use Haitian facilities and materials imported from the US.

1. What specific companies are involved in producing these goods, and are they completely owned by Haitians (HT) or are they in partnership with US companies?

2. Are there prospects that other companies are entering the field (using Haitian enterprises to produce goods from imported US materials)?

3. Will these enterprises expand? How important would it be to Haiti if these enterprises expanded? discontinued production?

4. What articles are produced?

5. What materials are imported to produce the final product? What percentage of the imported materials are part of the finished product?

6. Give the figures on the value of the imported goods vs. the value of the export goods to gain Haitian profit figures.

7. How do the domestic producers and the US importers feel about operating under President Duvalier? Are there any difficulties? Have investment conditions in Haiti changed since these enterprises began operating?

8. Does the Haitian workers' lack of education affect their training?

9. How effective is the Haitian social security system? Do US importers contribute to the social security fund?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# SECRET

28 May 1500

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director, Domestic Contact Service
Operational Support Staff

ATTENTION: Mr. George S. Masulin

SUBJECT: DCS Case 47540 - Request by Haitian
Opposition Group for Secret Interview
with U.S. Official

1. This memorandum will serve to confirm the telephone conversations between your office and the Chief of the Balti Desk on 15 and 27 May 1969 concerning the request made through Kr. Louis A. Bran on the above subject. During these conversations, your office was advised that the WH Division has no interest in contacting any representative or sente of the plotting group.

2. The WE Division considers Cleward Joseph Charles to be a perennial anti-Duvalier plotter in Port su Prince with little means or following to carry out his anti-government designs. During the weer of 11 May 1969, Charles approached the Embassy in Port as Prince with basically she gase information as relayed to the DCS office in New York by Mr. Bran. The only difference was that be did not request that a U.S. Government official make contact with the internal , ter the the Fabeesy prowide thot the U.S. Covernment would look benevolently on the group once the coup vas launched. The Bebassy replied that the U.S. Government had a fira policy not to intervene in such matters and that no such assurance could be expected.

3. Since 1967, Charles has made similar overtures to the U.S. Government for support of his anti-government plans. When revieving these approaches, there has always been sose doubt as to the accuracy of the information that Charles (or Brun) has furnished. While it was accepted that Charles vas actually plotting against Duvalier, it could never be determined if he was actually a member of the plotting group, which usually included sembers of the Haitian Army, or if Charles had sleply become aware of an anti-Duvalier plot and vas trying to act as a troker between the plotters and the

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

# SECRET

-3-

U.S. Government for his own interests.

4. At the present time, fairly reliable reports have been received that certain officials of the Haitian Army are trying to form a junta to take power in the event Duvalier dies. Some members of this junta are reportedly anxious to overthrow Duvalier, should he recover, but so far have not established a timetable or decided how they intend to carry out the coup. Also, the illness of Duvalier has undoubtedly inspired anti-Duvalier plotting by other groups in Haiti but no reliable information is available on their plans. It is interesting to note that Clezard Joseph Charles is not identified as a plotter in any of the reports from internal sources.

5. As was mentioned in the WH/7 memorandum dated 16 July 1968, we do not interpose any objection to DCS maintaining contact with Brun for its own purposes. However, we feel that in the interests of security and also in conformance with U.S. policy, that Brun should clearly understand that we have no interest in establishing contact with any member of the internal group through his channel and further that the U.S. Government has no interest in becoming involved in any anti-Duvalier activities.

Charles B. Dickens
AC/WH/7

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - WH/7
2 - WH/7/HT (CHARLES file)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: *Ophomo*

Request by Haitian Opposition Group For Secret Interview with US Official

FROM: GSMusulin/br
DCS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Bldg.

EXTENSION NO. Case 47540

2268 DATE 23 May 1969

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|     | RECEIVED               | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across columns after each comment) |
| --- | ---------------------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | DO/DCEL                |           |                    | For your information.                                                                                   |
| 2.  | C/WH/7/HF 3 B 0001 Hq. |           |                    | Shinney STATION.                                                                                        |
| 3.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9.  |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 10. |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11. |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12. |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13. |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14. |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15. |                        |           |                    |                                                                                                         |

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

SECRET

S E C R E T PRIORITY MAY 63 CITE CONTACT/MIMI YORK 1508
CONTACT/WASHINGTON

OPERATIONAL SUPPORT STAFF (HUMINT) FROM WASHINGTON

PROJECT: REPORT BY HAITIAN OPERATION GROUP FOR SLOPES INTERVIEW WITH US OFFICIAL

REFERENCE: S E C R E T/SENSITIVE DRAFT (?) -302/13576-63

OUR SOURCE RECEIVED A TELEGRAM FROM GROUP MENTIONED IN REFERENCE IN 20 MAY 1963, WHICH STATED THAT "THE TRANSACTION HAS NOT TAKEN PLACE". THIS TELEGRAM THEN REQUESTED "URGENTLY" THAT THE TRANSLATION BE SET IN MOTION. SOURCE WAS ALREADY EXPLAINED TO REFERENCE REQUESTERS THAT HE IS NOTHING BUT A CHANNEL. WE HAVE EXPLAINED TO SOURCE THAT WE ARE NOTHING BUT A CHANNEL (WHICH WE UNDERSTANDS). WE PASS ALONG THE REQUEST FOR THE DECODER. THANK YOU.

FILE: LEWIS A. SIMS, PRESIDENT

DAR INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

630 FIFTH AVENUE

NEW YORK CITY

SECRET

WORDS LINE SUBJECT: REQUEST .... ETC VICE VERSA REQUEST COREY

![image of a stamp saying "COPY 1 verified from original for declassification purposes date 9-29-95 initials" ]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Clemard Joseph Charles
GSMusulin/burm
DCS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Bldg.

EXTENSION NO. Case 47540
2268 DATE 21 May 1969

| TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. DO/DCSL                                           | 5/21 | 5/21               | m For your information and file.                                                                        |
| 2. WH/7/HT 3 B. 0001 Fa.                             |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3. DC/WH/7                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                                                   |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5. WH/7/HY                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                                                   |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7.                                                   |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                                                   |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9.                                                   |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 10.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                  |      |                    |                                                                                                         |

SECRET/SENSITIVE

FORM SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

1. CLEMAPD JOSEPH CHAPLES, WHO HAS STATED ON TEORIUS OCCASIONS THAT HE VILL PE THE WENT PRESIDENT OF WAIT! Aט רײַHO HAS CATHERED APOUT HIMSELF A PERSONAL FOLLOWING OF INDIVICIALS COVERTLY OPPOSED ΤΟ ΤΗΣ GOVERNMENT OF PRESIDENT DIVALIER /COLLECTOR'S NOTE: SEE 00-2 - 321/75913-59.1, HAS CY DECLAPED THAT ACTION AGAINST HAITI'S PRESIDENT IS IMPPEATIVE AND THAT DINALIEP'S OVERTYPY WIIST AND CAN BE ACCOMPLISHED DURING THE MONTH OF JINE 1969. HE HAS SET A 1 JILY 1969 DEANLINE FOR THE ACCOMPLISHMENT OF HIS GOAL. CHARLES HAS ALSO STATED THAT TIVE IS OF THE ESSENCE PECAUSE OTHER OPPOSITION TECUPS /COLLECTOR'S VITE: POESUMARLY, HE REFERS TO ONE OD VORE OF THOSE GROUPS LISTED IN 009-321/969.3-69./ MAY TRY TO ACT BEFORE HE CAN. CHAPLES LISTS NO REASON FOR THE SPECIFIC TIME LIMIT OF JULY 1959.

2. CHAPLES MAS PEQUESTED THAT "THE PENTAGON" (SPECIFICALLY, MIS FORMER INTERMEDIARY, COLONEL HOYARD נימוס DISPATCA SECPET ENVOY TO TALK TO HIM. HE LAYS Dוסכי כי אשמNS OPERAI DI FOR THE ENVOY AND PRESINABLY WILL TALY TO HIM IN POPT-A-PRINCE. THIS PEQUEST HAS SEEN "LABELED URGENT."

-END-

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
2. RI FILE NO.
3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 6. DATE
7. SUBJECI CRYPTOR. 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION
5. ANALYST 8. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

CHARLES, CLEMARD JOSEPH
201-357029
SEX N DUR ?

CIT HAITI
OCC ?
< HAITI
MBR OF OPPOSITION GP.

U36-009-006
PRIN-06024
13 MAY 69

HDCUNDHTP

R 6907311254

RI
FILE IN 201-
357029

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM
6-67 667 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET (7-68)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

# 10 MAY 69

REPORT CLASSIFICATIO: SECRET/ENTIVE

REFERENCES: NONE

COUNTRY/S: HAITI

DATE OF INFO: 5-10 MAY 1969

SUBJECT: REQUEST BY HAITIAN OPPOSITION GROUP FOR SECRET INTERVIEW
--WITH US OFFICIAL

1. ONE OF THE UNDERGROUND OPPOSITION GROUPS IN HAITI IS CENTERED IN THE FOLLOWING INDIVIDUALS: LAVENS OPT LAVENS (FORMER DEPUTY, NOW IN SEMI-HIDING); COLONEL VESTVER BLAIN OPT BLAIN. (HEAD OF ARMY QUARTERMASTER WAREHOUSES): COLONEL CAYASO OPT CAYARD (HEAD OF THE COAST GUARD): FOU CONSTANT OPT CONSTANT (C IEF OF STAFF).
   THEY WISH TO ORGANIZE A JUNTA, FOLLOWING THE DEATH OR RETIREMENT OF HAITIAN PRESIDENT DUVALIER, AND EXERCISE POWER DURING A TRANSITION PERIOD. FOLLOWING THE TRANSITION PERIOD, THIS GROUP WISHES TO HAVE FREE ELECTIONS AND THEN RETIRE FROM POLITICAL ACTIVITY. LAVENS WOULD LIKE TO BECOME A MINISTER. BLAIN WOULD LIKE A DIPLOMATIC APPOINTMENT, CAYARD WOULD LIKE TO RETIRE TO HIS CATTLE RANCH. THE GROUP HAS NO PARTICULAR CANDIDATE FOR PRESIDENT.

2. THIS GROUP ALLEGES THAT IT COMMANDS WIDE SUPPORT AMONG ARMY PERSONNEL IN PORT-AU-PRINCE AND IN THE HAITIAN HINTERLAND.
   THE GROUP IS REPORTEDLY WILLING TO WORK WITH ANY OTHER OPPOSITION GROUP, EXCEPT THE COMMUNISTS BUT IT DOES NOT WANT TO APPEAR PUBLICLY BEHOLDEN TO THE US OR TO ANY OTHER NON-HAITIAN POWER.

3. UNTIL RECENTLY, THE PLAN OF THIS GROUP WAS TO SIT BACK, WAIT FOR INTERNAL UPHEAVALS AND THEN MOVE IN TO ASSUME POWER. THEY DID NOT WANT TO ACT ON THEIR OWN, BUT PREFERRED TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

AN INTERNAL UPHEAVAL CREATED BY SOMEBODY ELSE.

4. THE MOST RECENT RUMORS CONCERNING PRESIDENT DIVALIER'S HEALTH
   HAVE, HOWEVER, CAUSED THE GROUP TO CHANGE ITS MIND. THE MEMBERS NOW
   DECLARE THAT TIME IS OF THE ESSENCE AND THAT AS SOON AS PRESIDENT
   DIVALIER "GOES ON THE OPERATING TABLE" THEY WILL MOVE.

5. THE GROUP RECOGNIZES, HOWEVER, THAT CONSIDERABLE DIFFICULTIES
   LIE IN ITS PATH AND IS MOST ANXIOUS TO DISCUSS THE ENTIRE MATTER IN
   SECRET WITH A US ENVOY. WHAT THEY HAVE TO SAY TO THIS ENVOY IS NOT
   KNOWN.

6. THE GROUP HAS ORGANIZED THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURE FOR THE ENVOY
   TO FOLLOW. FIRST, WE MUST SEND A CABLE TO THE FOLLOWING CABLE
   ADDRESS: STSLAVAS, PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI. THE CABLE MUST READ AS
   FOLLOWS: "ARRIVING ON (LIST DATE) TO DISCUSS THE SISAL DEAL. PLEASE
   RESERVE A ROOM" FOR ME AT THE SANS SOUCI HOTEL." THE NAME SIGNED TO
   THE CABLE DOES NOT MATTER. THE CABLE ADDRESS IS THAT OF ESTABLISHMENTS
   LAHEWS-PLAIN & CO., PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI. SECOND, HE MUST REGISTER
   AT THE SANS SOUCI AND AWAIT A CALL OR VISIT FROM A MAN NAMED EDGARD BONI
   RPT BONI. BONI IS KESTNER PLAIN'S BROTHER. THE ORIGINAL FAMILY NAME
   IS "BONI": PLAIN CHANGED HIS NAME. BONI WILL EITHER TAKE THE ENVOY TO
   TALK TO CONSTANT OR WILL INFORM HIM OF ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR THE
   INTERVIEW. THE ONLY PERSONS PRESENT AT THE INTERVIEW WILL BE CONSTANT
   AND THE ENVOY. THIRD, WHEN THE ENVOY MEETS CONSTANT HE MUST ESTABLISH
   HIS BONA FIDES PPT BONA FIDES BY SAYING: "I HAVE BEEN SENT
   BY MR. EISENHOWER TO DISCUSS SISAL". THE KEY WORD IS "EISENHOWER".

7. IT WOULD BE PREFERABLE, BUT NOT MANDATORY, IF THE SECRET IS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

ENVOY WAS ABLE TO SPEAK FRENCH.

-END-

SECRET/SENSITIVE

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

# Intelligence Information Report

CONTROLLED DISSEM

CONFIDENTIAL

NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti

REPORT NO. 00-B-321/10754-69

SUBJECT Reported Final Terms for Award of DATE DISTR. 21 APR 1969

Gambling Concession/Clenard
Joseph-Charles' Involvement

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES Supplement to: 003-321/07210-69

DATE OF INFO. Apr 69

PLACE & DATE ACO--/--69

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Naturalized US citizen of Haitian birth, who makes frequent trips to Haiti. Source maintains close contact with Haitians in the US and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti.

1.  As part of his effort to obtain foreign exchange, Haiti's President Duvalier has decided to award a gambling concession. A US syndicate, consisting of a New York City firm, Keynote Associates, and of Count Michel Levitch, Bishop of the American Orthodox Church, has been trying to obtain the concession. (Collector's Note: see reference for additional details.)

2.  The Bishop has severed his connections with Zeynote, which bombarded President Duvalier with telegrams and made an unannounced trip to Haiti to obtain the concession.

3.  [However, Zeynote received a telegram from Antonic Andre, Director of the Bank of the Republic of Haiti. This message informed them that they would not receive the concession. President Duvalier relies very heavily upon Andre for advice and guidance in economic matters.

4.  Almost at the same time that Keynote received Andre's telegram, Clenard Joseph-Charles notified the Bishop that he would receive the concession on the following terms:

a. A new group of associates of the Bishop will receive 80 percent of the gross receipts from the concession.

b. The Government of Haiti will receive 10 percent of the gross receipts.

c. The Bishop and his chief partner will receive five percent of the gross receipts.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL- NO DISSEM ABROAD

-2- 003-321/10754-69

d. The remaining five percent of the gross receipts will be used by the Bishop, reportedly under Haitian supervision, to begin construction of schools and child care centers in Haiti. These schools and centers will be under the auspices of the American Orthodox Church.

5. Joseph-Charles's authorship of the telegram which virtually promised the concession to the new group indicates that his fortunes may be on the mend. He certainly could never have sent such a message without the approval of President Duvalier. That he was permitted to send it indicates that the President may be beginning to look upon him more favorably than he has done in the recent past.

- end -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

# Intelligence Information Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 773 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM CONFIDENTIAL NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY Haiti REPORT NO. 00-3-321/10768-69

SUBJECT Possible Improvement in Fortunes of Clemard Joseph-Charles/Possible Reason DATE DISTR 22 APR 1969
for President Duvalier's Harsh Treatment of Charles/Eclipse of Luc-Albert NO. PAGES 2
Foucard

DATE OF INFO. Apr 69 REFERENCES Supplement To: 003-321/07210-69 003-321/06914-69

PLACE & DATE ACQPort-au-Prince, Haiti/Apr 69

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE Naturalized US citizen of Haitian birth, who makes frequent trips to Haiti. Source maintains close contact with Haitians in the US and with prominent business and political figures in Haiti.

1. During recent weeks, the fortunes of Clemard Joseph-Charles seem to have improved. He has been playing a not unimportant role in the award of the Haitian gambling concession (Collector's Note: see reference.), an activity which is designed to bring to Haiti some badly-needed foreign exchange. Although I do not believe that he sees President Duvalier as frequently as he used to prior to his incarceration, he does seem to have recovered some of the confidence which the President used to repose in him.

2. One reason for President Duvalier's dislike of Charles (and one possible reason why the President eventually threw him in jail) is that Charles was instrumental in bringing about the marriage of the President's daughter, Marie-Denise Duvalier, to Colonel Max Dominique. Charles and Marie-Denise have been close friends for many years. Marie-Denise became pregnant by Dominique and went to Charles for help. Charles then intervened with President Duvalier, who was furious, and persuaded him to agree to the marriage. The President was bitterly angry at Dominique and somewhat unjustly blamed Charles for the marriage. He agreed to the necessity for the wedding, but resented his new son-in-law and, by association, so to speak, resented Charles. The President and Dominique have formally reconciled. The President met Colonel Dominique at the airport, when the latter returned to Haiti, and made a point of inviting his son-in-law to ride in the presidential limousine from the airport to the palace. The purpose was to demonstrate the burial of old grudges. It remains to be seen, however, whether or not the reconciliation was genuine and whether or not the President has really forgiven his son-in-law.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

CONTROLLED DISSEM                               CONFIDENTIAL                                NO DISSEM ABROAD

-2-                                                                       POB-321/10768-69

3.  Luc-Albert Foucard, Haitian Minister of Tourism, is now in political, if not personal, eclipse. He no longer goes to his office. The New York City manager of the Haitian Tourist Bureau, Jean Sorel, is in Haiti and is acting in Foucard's stead. Ramah Theodore, Deputy Director of Tourism, is amiable and is a friend of President Duvalier. He is, however, of little stature and is not capable of doing anything more than the routine daily chores of the office. Foucard cannot afford to call attention to himself, because he is fearful for the physical safety of his sister, Madame Saint-Victor. President Duvalier recently dismissed her as his personal secretary and replaced her with his daughter, wife of Colonel Max Dominique. Since then, rumors have abounded that Madame Saint-Victor may be marked for physical liquidation [Collector's Note: see reference.]. Whether or not these rumors have any foundation in fact, there is no doubt that the members of the Foucard family (i e, Luc-Albert, Madame Saint-Victor and their sister, Madame Bella Foucard Poitvien) have all made themselves as inconspicuous as possible. The President's change in secretaries has led to a diminution of the power and influence of the Foucard clan.

- end -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

SECRET
(When Filled In)

REGISTRATION REQUEST

NAME
CHARLES, Clemard Joseph

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATIONS

DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP

PRESENT ADDRESS

PRESENT EMPLOYMENT

TRAVEL

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT IDENTIFYING DATA

DATE 28,910

201 NO. 357029

SD 11612 is terminated without prejudice by the Department of the Army.

For additional information, you are referred to the Army Source Registry.

DATE: 17 Mar 69

SECRET
(When Filled In)

GROUP - 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

FORM 1797


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

DEPT OF STATE AIRGRAM A-14

FROM AMEMBASS: PORT AU PRINCE

DATE: 1 FEBRUARY 1969

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ALLEGED PLOT OF CLEVARD JOSEPH CHARLES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Letters from Clemard Charles, Haiti, to US Officials and Businessmen

FROM: Daniel J. Shine for GSMusulin/js
DCS/Operational Support Staff
900 Key Building

EXTENSION: 2268
DCS Case 47540
DATE: 10 January 1969

| TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE                 | OFFICER'S INITIALS    | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. DO/DCSL                                           | RECEIVED 10 JAN 1969 | FORWARDED 13 JAN 1969 | Attached, for your information, is copy of PIII-457-68, with attachment.                                |
| 2. X/WH/7/Haiti 3 B 0001, Hqs.                       | 21 JAN 1969          |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 3.                                                   |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                                                   |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 5.                                                   |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                                                   |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 7. Return to FI/15R                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 8. ATTN: VINCE 2-E-03                                |                      |                       | To 8: Plo file in Charles 201                                                                           |
| 9.                                                   |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 10.                                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                  |                      |                       |                                                                                                         |

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Director, Domestic Contact Service

Attn : Intercational Divisica (GAlyea)

FROM : Chief, Filadelphia Office

PHI-457-65

DATE: 24 December 1968

SUBJECT: Letters From Clemard Charles, Eaiti, to US Officials and Businesszen

Ref : Phil 00-3-321/36501-68 dated 17 Dec 68

1.  Attached for your information are letters from Clemard Joseph Charles addressei το Vice President Eubert H. Eumphrey and President-elect Richard Nixon. These letters vere received in person from Charles, in Eaiti, by Donald Z. Rowe, source of reference, and brought to the US by the latter. The letters have not been delivered as of this date. Rove plans to ask the Kew Jersey Thira District Fencer of the US House of Representatives to deliver them.

2.  In addition to the correspondence referred to above, Rowe also received letters of introduction from Charles to:

Howard L. Burris (celieved to be a lawyer)

Suite 101, RCA Building

1725 K. Street, L.W.

Washington, D.C. 20006

Mr. A. E. Incledon, Vice President

J. G. anite Engineering Corp.

80 Broad Street

New York, N. Y. 10004

Monsieur Albert J. Krieger (believed to be an accountant and business acquaintance of Charles)

401 Broadway

New York, N. Y. 10013

Mr. Eerwan Albert Miller (an accountant)

230 W. 41st Street

New York, N. Y. 10036

Mr. N. V. Rosello (an old friend and very reliable acquaintance of Charles)

Export Credit Western Hemisphere Corp.

477 Madison Avenue

New York, II. Y. 10022

The addressees are individuals from whon Charles is seeking financial assistance.

JAY B. REEVES

BRWatson/cjs

Attachments

Buy US. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

Le President

Port-au-Prince, le 8 Novembre 1968

Excellence,
Vous n'ignorez pas l'intérêt avec le quel j'ai suivi les étapes de la campagne électorale qui devait aboutir au Triomphe de votre Candidat Républicain aux élections présidentielles Américaines.

Vous le savez, à n'en pas douter, que j'ai souhaité de tout coeur Votre propre Triomphe. Je le croyais irrésistible.

Vous avez fait de votre mieux, mais Vous avez perdu.

Que pouviez-Vous faire? Les causes contiennent qu'il y a quelque chose qu'on ne peut écarter par des votes ou des votes - une ceinture qui enserre le monde.

> "Tout ce qui a été décidé arrivera.
> La volonté infinie et supérieure de
> Dieu ne peut pas être transgressée."

Certes, pour atteindre l'objet de vos aspirations, Vous Vous êtes heurtés à des bornes insurmontables. Vous Vous êtes cramponnés à l'espoir de bousculer les faits et les hommes.

Après maintes expériences Vous convenez que depuis le départ la victoire constituait pratiquement une gageure, et qu'il fallait commencer plus tôt; c'est, dire que le monde est régi par des lois.

Maintenant que le rideau est tiré, je prends plaisir à formuler des voeux pour que soit maintenu intact le courage magnifique dont Vous vous êtes fait preuve tout au long de Votre campagne électorale.

Je sais, pour répéter le Président JOHNSON, que "Vous continuerez à servir l'Amérique aussi longtemps que Vous vivrez".

.../.2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

# LASOLE COSIMERCIALE DHAITI

Le Président

Annexo 1

-2-

Jo House, Excellence, de recevoir
l'expression de coses respectueux, et en
clae taps Yous accurates senticenta indo
fectibles d'attachocent et d'aisiration.

![signature]

Cléd JUSER CELLS, P.I...

CJC/pol

SCS EXCALMER
L'OCCABLE LOAN. LUPLEEY
VIC-PLLENT DS SMS-GIS D
WASHINGTON, DC.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

BANQUE COMMERCIALE D'HAITI

Le President

Port-au-Prince, le 8 Novembre 1963

Monsieur le President Elu,

J'ai suivi, comme tous les lettres d'ailleurs, les elections presidentielles Americaines qui constituent toujours un evenement international de premiere importance.

En effet, le monde entier a enregistré les differentes phases de la campagne electorale qui devait aboutir a votre avènement a la Présidence des Etats-Unis d'Amérique.

Un vent de renouveau souffle sur l'Amérique consciente de sa force et de son rayonnement dans le monde.

Vous jouissez, Monsieur le President Elu, d'un prestige incontesté.

Je suis donc certain que, sous Votre Administration, les États-Unis d'Amérique, avec le prestige que lui donnent son passé incomparable et ses grandes ressources tant humaines qu'économiques, sauront remplir sa vocation de Leadership du monde libre et sa place de premier plan parmi les autres Nations du globe qui conspirent ardemment après un monde pacifique et plus humain.

C'est le souhait que je forme à l'occasion de votre triomphe aux élections présidentielles Américaines.

Je vous prie de recevoir, Monsieur le Président Elu, mes voeux sincères pour Votre bonheur personnel et la prospérité du peuple Américain.

CJC/pcl

![Signature]

![Name and title]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)