# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992


REF: CF74656, 18 June 1965

1.  Appearing as part of Section 12 of the CPR on Mikhail Vasilyevich MURACHOV (201-205139), forwarded with reference, the following entries. Station would like to clarify some of the information previously reported by the Station which undoubtedly has led Headquarters to the conclusion contained in the second paragraph immediately below.

When told that Subject (Mikhail Vasilyevich MURACHOV 201-20513)) has been posted to Finland, Sommer (a Soviet defector) commented that Subject (MURACHOV) would probably be responsible for penetrating the police.

(This speculation by Source is probably not correct since this responsibility belongs to Petr Nikitovich SAVELYEV, who arrived in Helsinki about the same time that Subject did, to replace Ivan Yefimovich SERGIYEV.)

2.  Petr Nikitovich SAVELYEV (201-140400), Counsellor of Embassy and head of the Press Section. SAVELYEV filled the Counsellor slot vacated by Vasiliyevich SOLOMKO (201-142338) who dealt with trade. We do not recall the Chief of the Press Section prior to SAVELYEV's arrival, however SAVELYEV was NOT the replacement for Ivan SERGIYEV (201-259447) as stated in CFHA-5447, 13 February 1962.

3.  We doubt very much that SAVELYEV was involved in police penetration. His contacts in Finland (also in Norway) were for the most part with the press (CFHA-6610, 22 May 1964, etc.) and he circulated freely in that media. SAVELYEV did not speak Finnish, despite the fact that VALITSKIN informed us he spoke fairly good Finnish (CFHA-5447) which was probably an initial assessment on their part.

4.  Although a GRU suspect during his tour in Norway, his

![photo of handwritten text that says "Galub Grigoriy Ye."]

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

# SECRET

activities in Helsinki at first appeared to be those of a NO3
co-optce, and later more obviously those of a KGB officer in the
ca field. Walter R. CLASJONERY's contacts with SAVALYEV took
place either in press circles or in the presence of Aleksey
SLU.AROV (201-235095) whom we suspect of being the deputy rezident
in helsinki. Thus the milieu in which SAVALYEV operated, we
tend to place him in the KGB category rather than GRU.

5. SAVALYEV, who left for home leave on 10 July 1964 and never
   returned, was replaced by KGB officer Albert AKULOV (201-232590),
   first secretary and press attache.

6. Concerning Ivan Yefimovich SERGEYEV (201-259447), SERGEYEV
   replaced KGB officer Grigoriy Ye. GOLUB (201-150156), Chief of
   the Consular Section. After the defection of AZADL/1, this
   Section was in confusion and the exact slot-for-slot replacements
   are not known. In our best judgment, SERGEYEV was replaced by
   Anatoliy PAVLOV (201-331811) who departed 2 March 1963 because of
   ill health. PAVLOV was temporarily replaced by an officer Boris
   Vasilyevich PERELETOV ostensibly assigned to the Cultural Section
   (22@FILA-6433, 6 March 1964) who departed 31 March 1964 also because
   of ill health. PERELETOV was replaced for consular responsibilities
   by KGB officer Foliks Dmitryevich KARASEV (201-736991).

Distribution:

3 - WE
2 - SR

OLIVIA R. CLENICK


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)