# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![AIR (SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH)]

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Habanal

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Administrative

SPECIFIC- Arthur G. VAIVADA

DISPATCH NO. HKH-A-1025
(201-16681)
(23-88/2-139) Jocal

![Signature]

DATE: 7 November 1957

![Signature]

1.  Attached herewith is a memorandum prepared by the Subject, dated 29 October 1957, calling the attention of Headquarters to the fact that his assignment in Habana terminates in June 1958 and setting out his wishes as to reassignment thereafter.

2.  While Vaivada did not include it in his memorandum, in recent conversations with the case officer he has expressed considerable interest in the possibility of being assigned under unofficial cover to Spain, saying that both he and his wife would welcome such an assignment. The Subject has also said in those conversations that he would not take it amiss if an opportunity for reassignment outside of the Central America-Caribbean area were to become open to him at any time prior to June 1958.

3.  In the opinion of the Station, Vaivada has done a very good job. here, having been confronted with and overcome a number of difficult problems and situations during his tour of over three years in Habana. The Station is happy to recommend that his request for reassignment be given every consideration.

![James R. Palinger Signature]

James R. Palinger

Attachments:

Memorandum of Reassignment (4 copies)

Distribution:

*   Washington w/att.

2- Files w/att.

4 November 1957

JRP/nin

![FORM BO. MAR. 1949 51-28 A]

![DECLASSIIFIED for Call 43-23]

![SECRET KAPOK CLASSIFICATION]

201-168881


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Havana, Cuba
29 October 1957

SUBJECT: Reassignment - Arthur G. Vaivada

TO: Headquarters Desk

THROUGH: Chief of Station, Havana, Cuba

1.  While at Headquarters in the early part of May 1957, it was verbally agreed that I return to Cuba for about one year, security permitting.

2.  While my operational work in Cuba from August 1954 until February 1957 was concentrated on communist targets in the University of Habana, it should te pointed out that my duties during that period also involved many contacts with subversive oppositionist elements. When governmental persecution increased during February 1957, two of my key agents were lost, one of them by governmental assassination, so that I was obliged to leave Cuba temporarily perding clarification of the security factors involved. During my three months absence in PEPRIME the local situation deteriorated; and after my return my position was less favorable than it had been as a newcomer since I had lost assets tut had retained the cumulative security hazards of three years of cultivation and recruitment efforts. The University was, and still is, closed. Our communist penetration efforts are continuously harrassed by official persecution of the target group.

3.  Since by June 1958 I shall have spent four years in Cuba, I believe it appropriate to submit this letter at this time requesting that Headquarters begin to study the possibilities for reassignment about June 1958, or prior to that date if necessary. As to future assignments, I have no reservations or special reçuests. I an willing and prepared to travel to any area consistent with my qualifications. Generally speaking, and for obvious security reasons, I am interested in getting out of the Central America- Caribbean area if possible. It may be recalled that I was denied an Argentine visa in 1953, for purely technical reasons. This situation may be changed, and I would not be opposed to a tour in Argentina, Chile, or any of the South American republics. In this matter, the nature of the new project or assignment would take precedence with me over personal preferences as to particular area of assignment.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Reassignment - Arthur G. Vaivada
29 October 1957, Page 2

4. Regarding my cover status: I entered Cuba in 1954 under student cover (Pan American Foundation Scholarship), and as it became increasingly more difficult to maintain owing to student disturbances, I completed a course in the writing of free-lance fiction and am thrice published. This writing has been used as a realistic, stop gap cover, even after I was provided with a notional business cover (Public Surveys Institute) cy Headquarters. I understand that journalism is considered a weak and time-worn cover; yet if it is worked at, and financially managed through a PEPRIME checking account, it not only satisfies local SS probes but it does not have the inherent disadvantages involved in setting up a full-fledged business cover. I set this out as a possible suggestion to Headquarters, but have no insistence as to journalistic over business cover. The notional business cover provided me has proved satisfactory in a limited sense thus far, and even utilized as cover for action occasionally, but I would be uncertain about introducing it in a less "Americanized" country than Cuba.

Arthur C. Vavedes
Arthur G. Vaivada


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)