# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF *

CONF: LA!,

INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP

2100222

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

795395

DISSEM BY:

TO: SANTO DOMINGO INFO LA/MIAMI.Y

EMUISE Y

* CS SUGGESTS ADDITIONAL DISSEM TO OPSLITG.

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 17047 | IN 793956|* Y

1. FOLLOWING ARE HQS TRACES ON SUBSOURCES REF INFO:

A. COL. ORLANDO PIEDRA NEGUERUELA (201-247879) DPOB:

18 DEC 17, SAN ANTONIO DE LOS BANOS, CUBA. WAS VERY CLOSE TO

FULGENCIO BATISTA AND WAS CHIEF OF CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE DEPARTMENT

OF INVESTIGATION. ARRIVED IN U.S. 1959 FROM CUBA VIA THE DOM REP

AFTER BATISTA OVERTHROWN. OVER YEARS HAD BEEN INVOLVED IN WORKING FOR

RETURN OF BATISTA TO POWER IN CUBA. LATEST INFO DATED APRIL 1970

REPORTED THAT HE WAS SOLICITING PRICES OF ARMAMENT FOR NICARAGUAN

GOVERNMENT. PRESUME THAT HE MAY KNOW *EMGARNET* BECAUSE OF THEIR

SIMILAR PRE-CASTRO BACKGROUNDS.

B. FNU ALPIZAR POSSIBLY IDEN WITH EVELIO ALPIZ

AR PEREZ (201-2643443) DP08: 27 NOV 31, ARROYO ARENAS, HABANA, CUBA.

EVELIO ALPIZAR WAS CUBAN AIR FORCE PILOT AND POSSIBLY A MEMBER OF THE

SERVICE DE INTELIGENCIA (SIM) UNDER BATISTA. HE FLEW TO FLORIDA 1

JAN 59 AFTER BATISTA'S OVERTHROW AND WHILE IN U.S. HE WAS APPRIENT

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

[Figure: cross file copy for 201-264344 box]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

IMPDET

CL BY: 012913


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CINTER USE OM.

OMF. O 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR 195395

2

TARGET OF CUBAN DGI ATTEMPTS TO LURE HIM BACK TO CUBA. UFGU-371,

5 APRIL LI REQUESTED BROOTHAT HE BE UITHDRAWN FROM "PROGRAM" BASED ON CONTINUOUS TREATMENTS FOR NERVOUS DISORDER AND RECOGNIZED EMOTIONAL INSTABILITY. "PROGRAM" PROBABLY REFERS TO *AKHERALD*-ASSISTED FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) WHICH HAD RECRUITED HIM. IN 1963 ALPIZAR REPORTED PLANS TO BOMB CUBAN OIL REFINERY TO FBI AND CUSTOMS. IN 1972 HE REPORTEDLY OWNER OF MIAMI AIR LEASING CORP.

2. BOTH PIEDRA AND ALPIZAR PEREZ ARE SUBJECTS OF EXTENSIVE FBI REPORTS AND INTERVIEWS AND HIT POSSIBLE THAT ALPIZAR MAY BE BUREAU CONTACT. REQUEST STATION APPROVAL FOR PASSAGE OF NAMES OF PIEDRA AND ALPIZAR TO FBI, NAMING THEM AS SOURCES OF REF INFO IN ORDER TO ASSIST FBI IN ANY INVESTIGATION THAT THEY MIGHT MAKE INTO ALEGATIONS.

3. FILE: 22-4-120; 22-2-21/3; 200-9-35; 201-247879; 201-264344;

201-64137. E2.IMPDET.

LA COMMENT: INFORMATION PASSED BY EMFETCH-9 RE DOMINICAN AND PUERTO RICAN EXTREMISTS TRAINING IN PUERTO RICO.

DATE: 19 JANUARY 1976

ORIGR. SPRAGUE/JP

UNIT:LA/CAR/DRH

EXT: 1497

RICHARD S/SAMPSON

COORD: OPS/ITG-

LA/COG

FISHER AMES

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)