# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

INFO: DOP, DDOP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT IM, SR 7, WH 7, DD/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR

SECRET 1200282

COP INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8923

12 DEC 04202 63 IN 78723

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

INTEL TYPIO

SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 317 DTD 10 NOV RECD FROM TRANSLATION

30 NOV 63. INFORMANTS ARE AUDILIO (HERRERA), SURGIDERO DE BATABANO
RESIDENT AND FORMER WHOLESALE FRUIT VENDOR, AND EDILIO (GOMEZ)

RESIDENT OF FINCA ALGOBIN, BATABANO. BOTH WERE RECRUITED BY (FNU)

DE LA TORRE FULL IDEN NOT ESTABLISHED. FIELD COMMENTS ARE FROM AMSUM-4 MONITORING OF CLT. RID. NO INDEX. FILED 12/082

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: 1. TRAVEL OF SOVIETS FROM BATABANO TO ISLA DE PINOS.

2. CARGO TRAFFIC BETWEEN ISLA DE PINOS AND BATABANO

IN COMMENTS:

NO DIESEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
ED PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS STEIN
MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY GARDEN
RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES IN 78723

DATE OF INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. ON 6 NOVEMBER 1963, AT ABOUT 6:00 P.M., TWO TRUCKS, NOT OF U.S. MANUFACTURE, TRANSPORTING A TOTAL OF 24 MEN, WHO APPEARED TO BE SOVIETS, ARRIVED IN BATABANO, HABANA PROVINCE. THE MEN WERE WELL-GROOMED, WORE CLEAN CLOTHES AND WERE CARRYING SUITCASES AND BUNDLES. AT MIDNIGHT THESE INDIVIDUALS BOARDED THE FERRY SAILING FOR ISLA DE PINOS. (FIELD COMMENT: A USALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT THE ISLA DE TESORO, THE REGULAR FERRY TO ISLA DE PINOS, DEPARTED FROM BATABANO FOR GERONA, ISLA DE PINOS, ON THE NIGHT OF 6 NOVEMBER.)

2. ON 31 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 16:00 P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TRAILER

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

TRUCKS HAULING BOXES ARRIVED AT THE PORT OF BATABANO FROM ISLA DE PINOS.

3. ON 28 OCTOBER AT ABOUT 3:00 P.M., TWO OLIVE GREEN TEN-WHEELED TRUCKS DRIVEN BY MILITIAMEN ARRIVED IN BATABANO AND WERE SHIPPED ABOARD THE ISLA DE PINOS FERRY WHICH LEFT THE SLIP AT 4:00 P.M. THE TRUCKS HAD AN ENCLOSED METAL BODY WITH SMALL SIDE WINDOWS AND EACH TRUCK PULLED A FOUR-WHEELED TRAILER. (FIELD COMMENT: A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE REPORTED THAT ON 28 OCTOBER ZIL TRUCKS WERE ON BOARD THE ISLA DE TESORO FERRY WHICH SAILED FOR GERONA.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMNAVKEYWEST.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)