14-00000
104-10241-10250
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

```

```
Carica.

```

```
```

```
```
  4/10273
```

1. On 1 17 (3) Mrs. Hollech advised that Charles was staying at the Park Charatca letal, For Ysl, and that he had telephoned her mere (M) tune sfter to 2/9/73. Charles soad fola to her to be his point of content in Washington. reporting to Mrs. Hatleck, her to go to him on 2/4/73 & Charles had previous.ely contacted to Mrs Ellen (Climent Coleman), Senator Reating, and Congressman (Rhoads). Espically, Charles was trying to talk to Mrs. Reating that it from the anly to to Bay Touh to talk to Charles over thent the future in a friendly atmomphere. Charles remains very little view. Mrs. Hollech stated that Ca'rdricht to chila to obtain a French Intelligence officer. Ca's office, the bra a beritedon of the French language, would accurately Fuley would meet the ANM representative (Captain Degand) as the

2. On 5 Day (7) Mrs. Hollech reported that Col. Felt had 27727/2018 ir. Iyer in Haiti. Charles now thinks that to day to

Dryer .10 oth eines er tin fanco da cita da is als and Durallar. Deyer a tres of the Kitto the
CAMI F/ 110273


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

5. Through a misinterpretation, however, Charles did not conced (he date ( ) 1963.

A. Charles did not have the authority to offer a compromise (i.e., ) concerning the information available to him. Charles was acting to arrange a meeting for Charles with the President.

5. On 3 May (U) President telephoned to advise that he had had a telephone conversation. The President advised that he had put received a telephone consultation from Charles that Charles did in not have the authority to enter into any political conversation and that the would check with the Department. This reaction, him, that he would check with the State Department Protocol to determine which hotels would admit news events. Him, and states that this is the only manner admits news events. Him, Block Finally silly misunderstanding at the Album Forum. A check with the that he had arranged for Charles to meet with representatives in the lobby of the Willard Hotel, Washington, D. C., at 12:00 noon on 7 May. Attempts to reach him. As COB, 7 May, he is a schedule. As COB, 7 May, H. Intach that afternoon were unsuccessful. He and that Charles called him. He believes that that representation coincided with the office and him that a meeting later in the afternoon be arranged. Him, H. Intach believed that conflicting that due to the and requested in a situation from which she could not gradually withdrew and requested that commune accompany her.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

-3-

7. I met Ms. Flatlack in the lobby of the Royal Hawaiian Country Club, and a few minutes later, Ms. Carol Carwile joined us in the lobby. We spoke for about one hour. I did most of the talking. I told them of my background, and the work I had done for the Agency in various countries. I told them that after my retirement from the Agency I went into business for myself, and formed my own corporation. I told them I would like to get a financial advisor to tell me how to invest some money in my corporation, and Ms. Carwile mentioned several advisors who had done a pretty good job for her. Ms. Carwile told me that she was receiving a monthly check from a trust (the Bishop Estate Trust). At this point, I asked them if Charles was a partner with them in a retail business in Hawaii.

8. Both Charles and deFirmian’s were anxious to arrange meetings with (prominent) officials in Washington. I mentioned that a meeting had been arranged for him at NIH and that a M.D. from. Hollings, in the NIH would meet Ms. in the lobby. At this Mrs. Hollings, in the lobby waiting for contact.

9. In the course of the business conversation, Charles had mentioned to Ms. Flatlack that Charles desired to see a firm, and, to dismiss (3) old to Hallti. Later that afternoon Mrs. Flatlack commented that the Hal called the State Department to come along Charles’ request. Mr. Samuels (State) had called here twice to pass on the Faitian firm’s crate as mentioned above. Chad seemed to be in an official contact with Charles. The Cook man Coronament should to be an official contact with Charles. The Cook man Coromament should be in an official contact with Charles. The Cook man Coronament should to be considered Charles to be close to the Faitian Coronament, to have been involved in several shady Financial Cankey, 601 in general, to be an intolerable character. Mrs. Flatlack asked Charles the Agency had any interest in Charles which would dictate further contact with Charles.

10. Mrs. Stennis chatted with us yesterday and determined that as a result of the meeting with Charles, the Ay’s Faitian Bank had to further plans to contact him. I told him. Flatlack that our intentions seemed to have been initiated and that it intuitional we should disengage executives as carefully as possible.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

- 4 -

11.  Deputy Station, C/O Operations, called on 7 May to examine something the committee was doing with regard to the Costa Rican matter. He stated that the matter as (1) Intermediary to the Costa Rican Branch, (2) to Caracas Branch. He explained that the Costa Rican matter was connected to the matter of complotting to overthrow Charles, C/O operations immediately contacted with Crushen. I explained to him that the unit was completely handled by the Caracas and Costa Rican.

12. On 8 May Mrs. Watkins telephoned to inform that the Operational Branch of AMOT was discussing the Charles case with regard to the future seizure of evidence. The unit will produce something immediately in the case involving Charles considered for to the final point in Washington. I explained to her that the matter was one for climer, the State Department or C/O operational elements to handle and that in no event should she ever allow it to be overthrown. The end of the crisis that the J3 agreement should continue to "play ball" with Charles as a future covert in the unit.

A. P. CLANCI

Distribution:
Orig - C/Chief
1 - New York Office
1 - Support (Sheets)
1 - LA Branch
1 - Infor (Central)
1 - Dop/Coll. clanc

![Stamp]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)