# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISTRI

ACTIONI

INFO:

|            |             |          |                 |
| ---------- | ----------- | -------- | --------------- |
| DEFERRED   | PRIORITY    | INITIALS | INCOMING NUMBER |
| RRRROUTINE | OPERATIONAL | RF       | 11558           |
|            | IMMEDIATE   |          |                 |
| TO         | INFO        | DTG      | CITE, KNS 02081 |
| DIR        | WAVE        | 1010082  | NUMBER          |

GYROSE AMBUD

REF A. DIR 40582

B. KNGS Ø202

1. COS BELIEVES HIS REF B APPRAISAL JAMAICAN POLITICAL CLINATE RE ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD DELEGATION HERE CORRECT. JAMAICAN GOVT WANTS NOT BE OVERTLY INVOLVED IN COLD WAR AND OUT OF CONCERN FOR SA SAFETY LARGE JAMAICAN COMMUNITY CUBA WILL MAKE STRENJOUS EFFORT TO STAY OUT. HOWEVER THEY WILL HELP COVERTLY WHEREEVER POSSIBLE. ANY ATTEMPT INVOLVE JAMAICAN GOVT AGAINST ITS WILL AT THIS TIME WOULD RESULT IN NET LOSS OF COOPERATION NOW AND IN FUTURE, STATION REGARDS INCREASING COOPERATION OF RUABBE SERCIVE IN CUBAN OBJECTIVES OF CONSIDERABLE VALUE.

2. IF HQS BELIEVES AMBUD REP SHOULD VISIT JAMAICA TO TEST POLITICAL XKXXM CLIMATE IN GOVT, STATION WOULD CONCUR MOST RELUCTANTLY IN (PTN GELD WILL FWD) WITH FRANK (DIAZ) SILVEIRA DURING CARIBBEAN GAMES WHOM GOVT WANTED TO THROW OUT FOR HIS STATMENTS TO PRESS ABOUT PROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT AMBUD REPRESENTATION HERE. INX ANY EVENT STATION WOULD INSIST NO PUBLIC ANNOUNCEMENTS PRECEDE JAMAICAN GOVT RULING. SHOULD GOVT REJECT AMBUD FOLLOWING ADVANCE PUBLICITY THIS COULD BE MAJOR EX VICTORY FOR CUBAN CONSULATE, SHOT IN ARM TO FACING "FRIENDS OF CUBA

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

INCOMING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE:
FILE:

INCOMING NUMBER

IN 11558

CITE KINGS 8268

--- PAGE 2---

COMMITTEE" (COMPRISING LOCAL COMUNISTS AND RAS TAFARIS), AND GIFT TO BUDDING NEW COMMUNIST FRONT "SOCIALIST PARTY OF JAMAICA".

3. SINCE STATION COULD NOT PLAUSIBLY DENY RESPONSIBILITY FOR AMBUD TO RUABBE AND GOVT OPPOSED TO USE OF JAMAICA FOR COUNTER REVOLUTIONARY PURPOSE AGAINST CUBA, COS BELIEVES IT ADVANTAGEOUS TO KUBARK AND ODYOKE FOR AMBUD STAY OUT OF JAMAICA UNTIL SENTIMENT CHANGES.

END OF MESSAGE

GROUP 1 - EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)