14-00000
104-10256-10208
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED
NTERNAL
USE ONLY
CONFIDENTIAL
☑ SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:
C/WH/SEC
GH-56

EXTENSION NO.
109301
6300

DATE
5 May 1966

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. Chief, PSD 3E-48
   For inclusion in Subject's security file.

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. Pauline Control Desk
   RECORDED
   CONTROL DESK
   ⑤ Record resequation

6. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS
3-62 EDITIONS
SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL
USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH

INFO: Chief, KUVEST

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: DYVOUR/ADMIN/PERSONNEL James B. Wilcott Jr. Debriefing of Pan- Resignation in field

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: FYI

1.  arrived PCS at JMWAVE on 26 April 1965 and submitted his resignation at JMWAVE from KUBARK to be effective cob 15 April 1966. While at JMWAVE Subject was under the cover of JMOCEAN.

2. resigned in order to seek employment in private industry. A resume of his KUBARK employment is as follows:

a. Mar 57 (EOD) to May 60 - in Hqs - overt employee

b. May. 60 to July 64 - (Tokyo, Japan) under ODIBEX cover

c. Aug 64 - leave

d. Sept 64 to Apr 65 - in Hqs - ODIBEX cover

e. 26 Apr 65 to 15 Apr 66 - JMOCEAN

3. Subject was instructed in the event he ever seeks employ- ment with ODYOKE he should contact the Station for guidance as to what he will show as his former ODYOKE employment.

4. Under separate cover there is being forwarded to Head- quarters a copy of the resume that is submitting in seeking employment with private industry. This resume was written by and it was concurred in by Chief/Finance and Chief/Cover of JMWAVE.

Attachment: 1 (Resume) Under Separate Cover

Distribution:

3 - WH w/att u/s/c

2 - KUVEST w/att u/s/c

Philip G. ELMARD

DATE TYPED 20 A pr 66

DATE DISPATCHED APR25 900

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGT-16012

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT

SUBSEQUENT TO GRADUATION FROM CENTRAL CITY BUSINESS INSTITUTE

March 1957 to May 1960 U.S. Army Element, *Composite Operations Group*
Room 1B945, The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.
Salary: $6,000.

Review vouchers and determine cost center and object class.

Maintain special payrolls and related accounts and resolve problems relating to leave, retirement, taxes, etc. and correlate payroll function with other departments.

Assist in the installation of and supervision of posting machine operation to maintain allotment ledger. Maintain Miscellaneous Obligation Record and supervise posting clerks. Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual Summary of Allotment Accounts preparation and other related statements. Maintain Expenditure Distribution Ledger and balance with IBM run.

Police certain appropriation, Fund and Limitation Accounts.

Assist in the preparation of budgets, summaries and reports.

May 1960 to July 1964 U.S. Army Element, *Composite Operations Group*
assigned to *Composite Analysis Group*
to (Tokyo, Japan)
Salary: $6,500.

Maintain and pay special payroll and prepare reports, surveys and summaries.

Control and responsibility for funds in the high six figures. Monthly disbursements in the high six figures to revolving funds, Supervision and audit of revolving funds and accounting vouchers, Monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual statements, summaries and reports of revolving funds.

Control and responsibility for transfers of funds and foreign currency and maintenance of conversion accounts.

Supervise and perform financial negotiations with (Japanese) businessmen.

(Continued)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

September 1964 to April 1965 U.S. Army Element, Composite Operations
Group Room 1E945
The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.
Salary: $6,890

Perform audit of several special payrolls. Assist in the pilot study and installation of a new payroll system.

Assist various branches in problems relating to the conversion to computer bookkeeping.

Assist in the balancing of the General Ledger accounts in connection with the year-end closing of the books.

May 1965 to Present The (Melmar Corporation)
Miami, Florida
Payroll Officer
Salary: $8,000.

Reorganize the payroll office and assume responsibility for the schedule and accuracy of payrolls. Instruct, direct and assist clerks in compiling, computing and preparation of payrolls. Prepare checks for distribution. Investigate and settle disputes regarding alleged errors in pay checks. Audit payroll summaries, bank balances and labor distribution records, etc. Prepare quarterly and annual tax: report forms, wage reports and surveys. Correlate payroll function with other departments.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)