# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PAGE 81

TOR:8618552 AUG 73

SECRET 861527Z AUG 73 STAFF

CITE WHAMIAMI 19175

TO: QUAYAQUIL INFO DIRECTOR, SAN JOSE, QUITO GUATEMALA, MEXICO CITY

KHABYSS PJBREEZY

REF: QUAYAQUIL 17852 (IN 991390)

1. FOLLOWING ARE STATION TRACES SUBJECTS REFI:

A. EVELIO DUQUE: SUBJECT POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH

EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR AKA LUIS MARTIN HERNANDEZ (201-302006). FILE WAS TRANSFERRED HQS MAY 1968. INDEX

CARDS REFLECT DOB REPORTED AS 13 JAN 27 AND 13 DEC 26. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. A12 418 168. PER (UFGH)-271, 27 FEB 61, SUBJECT

WAS ONE OF MOST WANTED GUERRILLA LEADERS ESCAMBRAY AND HAD BEEN OBJECT INTENSIVE SEARCH BY CUBAN GOVT. HIS QUERRILLA GROUP

KNOWN AS LEGION DEMOCRATICA CONSTITUCIONAL (LDC). ENTERED U.S. 5 JUNE 61 AT MIAMI. POA WAS GRANTED AUG 61. PER

SEPT 61 FOI REPORT, DUQUE WAS COMMANDER ANTI-CASTRO FORCES FROM AUG 60-APR 61.

B. HERMINIO DIA II IN 1964. ONE HERMINIO DIAB BARCIA (201-203848) WAS REPORTEDLY SMUGGLING NARCOTICS OR

SECRET

RECORD COPY

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

T 441386 PAGE 82 IN 995871
TOR1061855Z AUG 73 [WHIM] 19175

ACTING AS COURIER BETWEEN NARCOTICS TRAFFICKERS IN MEXICO AND
U.S., USING PUERTO RICAN DOCUMENTATION. WOULD VISIT HIS
MEXICAN WIFE WHO RESIDED HAVANA. THEY HAVE SON WHO BORN
U.S. IT ALSO RUMORED THAT DIAZ HAD MEETINGS WITH LOCAL
HEXICAN POLICE SHIEF WHO PERSONAL FRIEND. DIAZ TRAVELLED
FREQUENTLY BETWEEN MIAMI AND NEW YORK AND ALWAYS SEEMED
TO HAVE LARGE AMOUNTS MONEY. ANOTHER 1965 REPORT
INDICATED DIAZ WAS MILITARY COORDINATOR 30TH NOVEMBER
MOVEMENT AND WAS ONE OF GROUP WHICH ATTEMPTED INFILTRATE
CUBA 1966.

2. SLIGO TRACES CONTAIN NO INFORMATION CONNECTING DUQUE
   WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING. THEY OF OPINION DIAZ IDENTICAL WITH
   SANDALIO HERMINO DIAZ GARCIA WHO WAS REPORTED BY CUBAN RADIO
   AS HAVING BEEN KILLED DURING 1966 ATTEMPT TO INVADE ISLAND.
   HE WAS ALSO REPORTED 1966 AS POSSIBLE GOC AGENT INFILTRATED
   U.S. ONLY ADDITIONAL SLIGO INFO ON DUQUE AS FOLLOWS: DPOBI
   18 JAN 1927, LAS VILLAS. DURING STRUGGLE WITH BATISTA
   REGIME, SUBJECT WAS MEMBER "13TH OF MARCH REVOLUTIONARY
   DIRECTORATE," AND JOINED QUERRILLAS ESCAMBRAY 1958. IN
   JAN 1959, JOINED REBEL ARMY WITH RANK OF SARGEANT. HAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CABLE SEC DIOSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/FLOTTER
ACTION UNIT
RF. FILE. VR.
ACTION #
T 441386

PAGE 03-03
TOR:061855Z AUG 73

IN 995071
WHIM 19175

ACTIVE EXILE GROUPS U.S. AND CONNECTED WITH RECE. IN 1963. HE WAS ACCUSED BY ORLAND BOSCH AVILA OF MISAPPROPRIATION FUNDS GIVEN HIM TO CARRY OUT WARLIKE ACTIVITIES AGAINST CUBA. BOSCH CLAIMED DUQUE USED FUNDS ON WOMEN AND PARTIES AND DEMPED ARMS HE RECEIVED INTO SEA. NO OTHER INFO.

3. FILE: 208-11-11/31 24-120-25. E2, IMPDET

SECRET

201-0302008


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)