# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Leo\! CHERNE

SECRET SECURITY INFORMATION

CC:CT PERSONNEL

OF PERSONNEL
RETURN FILE TO SE-US HQS

MASTROCOLA, Bruce G. consolidated file #21

![photo of document cover page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CASE OFFICER

T. Cobb

TELEPHONE EXTENSION

2056

DIVISION

WH/III/Carib

DATE

1 June 58

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

INSTRUCTIONS: Complete all items. Inserting are not applicable. Forward original and one copy for prop-
aration of contract

GENERAL

SECTION I

1. NAME

Bruce G. MASTROCOLA

5. PREVIOUS CIA PSEUDONYM OR ALIASES

None

7. SECURITY CLEARANCE (Type and date)

PCA C-11118, 28 May 59

2. PROJECT

Headquarters Support

6. IN WHAT CAPACITY IS PRESENTLY ENGAGED. OR HAS BEEN ENGAGED BY CIA OR ITS ALLIED
   ACTIVITIES IN SOME CAPACITY
   (If yes, describe and include salary)

His business firm furnished cover for a CIA agent.

Personal friend and confidant of DCI

8. CONTRACT IS TO BE WRITTEN IN STERILE FORM I.E., "U.S. GOVERNMENT"

3. ALLOTMENT NO.

9-3500-10-200

4. SLOT NO.

9. INDIVIDUAL WILL WORK UNDER "CONTROLLED CONDITIONS", I.E., REGULAR OFFICE HOURS AWAY FROM SUBJECT'S HOME AND PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A STAFF EMPLOYEE OR STAFF AGENT

10. PROPOSED CATEGORY (Contract agent, contract employee, etc.)

Contract Agent

SECTION II

PERSONAL DATA

11. CITIZENSHIP

USA

12. IF NOT U.S. CITIZEN, INDIVIDUAL IS A PERMANENT RESIDENT ALIEN

13. AGE

46

14. DATE OF BIRTH (Month, day, year)

8 September 1912

15. LEGAL RESIDENCE (City and state or country)

New York, N.Y.

16. CURRENT RESIDENCE (City and state or country)

New York, N.Y.

17. MARITAL STATUS (Check as appropriate)

MARRIED

18. NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including individual)
    RELATIONSHIP

wife 1
daughter 1/2

(no others known)

19. INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE, STAFF AGENT OR
    AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME
    CAPACITY
    RELATIONSHIP?

SECTION III

U.S. MILITARY STATUS

20. RESERVE

Not Known

21. VETERAN

Not Known

22. IF RETIRED, INDICATE CATEGORY (Longevity, combat disability, service disability non-combat)

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE

24. RANK OR GRADE

25. DRAFT ELIGIBLE

26. DRAFT DEFERMENT OBTAINED BY CIA

SECTION IV

27. BASIC SALARY

28. POST DIFFERENTIAL

COMPENSATION

(If any)

29. TAXES TO BE WITHHELD BY

$50.00 per day (not to exceed $265 per wk.)

WAE

Natural

SECTION V

ALLOWANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)

31. QUARTERS

NA

32. POST

NA

33. OTHER

NA

34. COVER (Breakdown, if any)

NA

SECTION VI

35. TYPES

FOREIGN OPERATIONAL

36. WITH DEPENDENTS

37. HOUSEHOLD EFFECTS TO BE SHIPPED

38. PERSONAL VEHICLE TO BE SHIPPED

39. TRANSPORTED VEHICLE TO BE USED FOR OPERATIONAL TRAVEL

40. IF WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH

41. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH CIA REGULATIONS

SECTION VII

42. PURCHASE OF INFORMATION

Yes

OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

43. ENTERTAINMENT

Yes

44. OTHER

Operational Expenses
Representation allowance

45. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY WILL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH CIA REGULATIONS

Form NO. 204 REPLACES FORMS 204 AND 2001. 1 SEP 53

SECRET

(6) 141


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST (CONTINUED)

NOTR: SRP INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHRET.

SECTION 7114

ACT. OFFICER T. Cobb

DIVISION WH/ILL/Carib

TELEPHONE EXTENSION 2056

DATE 1 June 59

OTHER BENEITS

46. BENEFITS (See Part II of Confidential Pund Regulations or regulator 10 bonafite applicable to varous categories of contract personnel. If medical benefits are requested, a R. 15-30 or regulations.)

SECTION IX

47. STATUS (Check) X ESTABLISHED

48. TYPE (Check)

COVER ACTIVITY

PROPRIETARY

CULTURAL

COMMERCIAL X

TOURIST

SUBSIDIZED

EDUCATIONAL

MILITARY

OTHER

49. IF COVER PAYMENTS ARE CONTEMPLATED, THEY BILL DE EFFECTED DO EIMBURSARLE BASIS

NA

OFFSET OF INCOME

COMPLETE

PARTIAL

SECTION X

50. OFFSET OF INCOME AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES (If less than total, juntily in seperate acco attached hereto.)

TOTAL

PARTIAL

NONE X

SECTION XI

51. DURATION

TERM

EFFECTIVE DATE

53. RENEWABLE

DAYS

MONTHS 1

YEARS 5

5 June 59

YES X

NO

54. TERMINATION NOTICE (Number of days)

55. FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR RESIGNATION PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION

30

YES

NO X

SECTION XII

56. PRIMARY FUNCTION (FI, PP: other)

FUNCTION

PP

SECTION XIII

57. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

DUTIES

High level contacts with Cuban Government officiels for political action purposes (subsidiary FI-type reporting also expected from Subject).

SECTION XIV

58. EXPERIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

Arminent authority on government, business, taxse, foreign trade. High-level contacts in Cuban Government.

59. EDUCATION Unknown (Check Highest Lovel Attasued)

GRADE SCHOOL
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
TRADE SCHOOL GRADUATE
BUSINESS SCHOOL GRADUATE
COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE
COLLEGE (No Degree)

COLLEGE DEGREE
POST GRADUATE
MA

PHD

60. LANGUAGE COMPETENCY Unknown (Check Appropriate Degree Coopstericy)

LANGUAGE

SPEAK

WRITE

READ

61. INDIVIDUAL'S COUNTRY OF ORIGIN

Fluent

Poor

Fluent

Poor

Fluent

Poor

Average

Average

Average

62. AREA KISLhこよ

Frequent travel into target area.

SECTION XV

63. JOB ANG SALA PRIR TO SERVICE FCA CIA

PRIOR EMPLOYMENT

Executive secretary of a research institute (current employment) Member of International Rescue Committee

SECTION XVI

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

64. AUDITIONAL DA UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS, JUSTIFICATIONS OR EXPLANATIONS (Use other side if cocessary)

DATE

TYPED YAWE & SIGNATURE OF DIVISION OFFICER

APPROVAL

DATE

TYPED WAVE SIGNATURE OF SENIOR STAFF OFFICER

Robert Dauler

R. N. DAHLGREN, C/WH/III

parmesas

F. E. ARNESON, C/WH/Support

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

Mr. Bruce C. Mastrocola

Dear Mr. Mastrocola:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as an independent contractor for the submission of certain information and related services of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1.  Compensation. In full consideration for the submission of such information and services you will be paid a fee of $50 for any day or fraction thereof during which you are utilized under this agreement, not to exceed $265 per week. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. No taxes will be withheld therefrom, but it will be your responsibility to report such income under existing Federal income tax laws and regulations. An appropriate Form 1099 will be furnished by the Government in furtherance of its tax reporting requirement.

2.  Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary expenses incurred in connection with such operational travel as may be directed or authorized by the Government. This may include per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of such travel and while on temporary duty away from your domestic permanent post of assignment. Payment and accounting for such expenses will be in substantial conformance with applicable Government regulations.

3.  Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to accounting in substantial compliance with Government regulations.

4.  Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

5.  Status. You are not an employee of the United States Government under this agreement and are not entitled to any benefits normally incident to an employee status.

6.  Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

7. Instructions. Instructions received by you from the Government in briefing or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

8. Unauthorized Commitments. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government.

9. Term. This contract is effective as of 5 June 1959, and shall continue thereafter for a period of one (1) year unless sooner terminated either:

(a) By thirty (30) days' actual notice by either party hereto, or

(b) Without prior notice by the Government, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended upon notice from the Government. Termination of this agreement will not release you from the obligations of any security oath you may be required to take.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY

Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Bruce G. Mastrocola

WITNESS:

APPROVED:


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)