14-00000
104-10217-10196
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992


## CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: PARIS

ACTION: WE 8

INFO: FEL, CA2, CA/PEG, CA/PRIP, FI, VR

ADDED: CI/IC 2, VR

SECRET B21352

DIR CITE PARI 5567 BINGHAM ACTING

LCHARVEST

1. VERGES MAGAZINE REVOLUTION COMBINED ISSUES NO'S 10-11 APPEARED
   ON PARIS NEWS STANDS 30 JULY. STA BUYING UP COPIES FOR STUFFER
   PSYCH OP. WILL ADVISE.

2. FYI BULLETIN INSIDE FRONT COVER STATES:
   FOLLOWING GRAVE ACCUSATIONS CONVEYED BY COMRADES IN NEW YORK,
   LONDON AND ACCRA AND CONFIRMED ON INQUIRY, REVOLUTION INFORES
   ITS READERS THAT RICHARD GIBSON WHO HISUSED HIS OFFICE AS FORMER
   SECRETARY OF "FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE" IN ORDER PENETRATE
   RANKS OF INTERNATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT MUST NO LONGER BE
   CONSIDERED COLLABORATOR OF THIS REVIEW. NO EDITION OF REVIEW MAY
   BE HELD RESPONSIBLE FOR HIS DOINGS.

3. DURING OUR OWN PREVIOUS CONSIDERATION OF APPROACHING GIBSON (ALSO REDJEVAY)
   FOR VIRK JERVAY ASKED LOCAL ODENVY IF HE WAS THEIR AGENT AND WAS
   TOLD NO.

**SECRET**

**SECRET**

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SURJICT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

9. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 8. EVALUATION

B. ANALYST

5. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

14. 
GIBSON, RICHARD
201-306052
SEX M DOB ?

CIT USA
OCC EDITOR
A FRANCE
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE EDITION OF REVOLUTION DISPATCH CONTAINS CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SUBJ AND PADBAYON/1

040-006-138/03
NBDA-10084
12 MAR 64

PAZR 1918303

![photo description]

1 918 303

15. 
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

![photo description]

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)