# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: C/WH.5.

INFO : DDP, ADOP, C/CI, C/FI 2, RI/AN DUMMY, C/TSD 3, C/SAS 5, (VR)

SECRET 222100Z

DIR CITE MEXI 7006

KAPOK PERUMEN

REF A DIR 82999

B MEXI 6967 (ir) (64813)

21 MAR 1966

1. PRO DATA ON LICRAFT-1 AS FURNISHED BY BROTHER 28 NOT BEING POUCHED.

2. BROTHER FEELS SUBJ WILLING REMAIN INSIDE FORSEEABLE FUTURE. IS SENDING SUBJ ANOTHER LETTER FOR DEFINITE DECISION AND WILL INDICATE INTERESTED PARTY BEHIND AMSEVER--2 WILLING ESTABLISH TWO HUNDRED DOLLAR MONTHLY ESCROW ACCOUNT.

3. CONTACT WILL BE MAINTAINED USING PRESENT CHANNEL THROUGH [[NET HEMBASSY DIPLOMATIC POUCH]] STATION FEELS SUBJ SHOULD BE TRAINED THROUGH THIS CHANNEL ASAP IN SW SYSTEM TO ENHANCE COMMO SECURITY.

4. SUBJ HAS ACCESS TO ALL SIGNIFICANT PLANS ACTIVITIES MINISTRY [[INDUSTRIES]] IS FREQUENTLY CONSULTED BY ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA AND SITS IN ON ALL HIGH LEVEL PLANNING SESSIONS AT MINISTRY, WHILE KNOWN AS NOT FAVORING REGIME, IS CONSIDERED BY GUEVARA AND ASSOCIATES AS HIGHLY QUALIFIED AND CAPABLE ENGINEER WHO WILL NOT HESITATE EVALUATE SOVELOC MACHINERY AS SUPERIOR TO AVAILABLE WESTERN ITEMS IF THUS CONVINCED.

13532


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

9. KUMARK CONTROL WILL BE COORDINATED TO FINANCIAL AND POLITICAL AID.

"CLEAR" SUBJ OF INVOLVEMENT WITH REGIME AFTER CASTRO DOWNFALL.

BROTHER SAYS SUBJ STRONGLY PRO-PBPRIME AND FORESAW ADVENT COMMUNIST. REGIME AS EARLY AS 1959 WHEN BROTHER HIMSELF WAS NOT YET CONVINCED CASTRO COMMUNIST.

6. SURJ LOOKS LIKE EXCELLENT DIRECT LINE INTO "CHE" AWARE AND SHOULD BE USED ONLY FOR INFO TO WHICH HE HAS NORMAL ACCESS.

BROTHER EMPHASIZED REPEATEDLY THAT SUBJ SHOULD NEVER BE USED FOR CONTACT WITH OTHERS INSIDE NO MATTER HOW WELL SUCH PERSONS TRUSTED BY ODYCHE.

7. INDEX [201-35655].

SECRET

C/S COMMENTS: AFTER ESTABLISHMENT LOWER ECHELON SHOULD WILL REMAIN FORMER, HOW CONTACT WILL BE MAINTAINED, EXTENT OF KUMARK CONTROL, AND STATEMENT OF INTENTIONS (PHRASE).

![stamp graphic]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)