# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

```
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
```

1752

ORIO: RALPH SEEHAFER

UNIT: WH/L/FI

EXT: 2065

DATE: 18 MAY 1961

```
AM(IRE)-1 08
201 (274049)
18-13

ROUTING

1
4

2
5

3
6

MAY 18 20482 61

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

OUT 9:23

CITE DAK BELL 0628
```

TO: CARACAS

FROM: БАССТОЯХВELL

CONF: BEI.L 15

INFO: DDP, COP, ADC/A, WH, BELL S/C

TO: PRITY CARA INFO

JHZIP

PLS PUT FOLLOWING INTO SW WRITE COVER LETTER AND MAIL TO AMIRE 1:

"MSG NUMBER FIVE. (HENRY). RECEIVED YOUR SW MSGS THRU FOURTEEN.

BE VERY CAREFUL OF (ELVIKA JOVANE DE SAYAS) WE HAVE REPORT SHE VERY

PRO-CASTRO. FOLLOWING INSTRUCTIONS FOR YOU ALSO BEING SENT BY

RADIO. HENRY, CLINTON, HAPPY AND EUGENIO SHOULD LEAVE CUBA AS SOON

AS FEASIBLE. USE EVERY MEANS AVAILABLE INCLUDING COMPANY FUNDS

FOR LEGAL OR ILLEGAL TRAVEL. MEANTIME DIVORCE YOURSELF FROM OPERATIONS

AS MUCH AS POSSIBLE AND CONCENTRATE ON YOUR EXFILTRATION. ADVISE IF

OUR HELP NEEDED. IF ROBERTO WILLING BE ALTERNATE WT CHANNEL FOR

PETE AND NET PROVIDE HIM WITH RADIO. HE ONLY TO BE USED IN EMERGENCY.

USE INK AS PRIMARY CHANNEL. INSTRUCT FELIPE USE SW AND COURIERS

FOR NORMAL COMMO AND WT ONLY FOR VERY URGENT MATTERS. WE SENDING

POUCH VIA TIGERS WIFE. FOR SECURITY REASONS WE REMOVED ENVELOPE

THREE CONTAINING PERSONAL LETTERS AND REPLACED WITH ENVELOPE

CONTAINING PESOS FOR FELIPE MANAGE OPERATIONS. TELL FELIPES WIFE

SEND FULL DETAILS BANK ACCT TO HENRYS PO BOX ΜΙΑΜΙ. WE WILL

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:-

INFO:

TO INFO CITE DIR

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

DEFERRED
ROUTINE
OUT 9323 BELL 0628

- 2 99 6 (INTERCEPT AND BEGIN MONTHLY DEPOSITS). TELL (PETE) BE CAREFUL OF COUNSELLOR YUGOSLAV EMB WHO INTELLIGENCE AGENT. (DIMPLE) BRIEFED CONTENTS THIS MSG FOR ORAL RELAY TO YOU."

END OF MESSAGE


J. C. KIN
C/HD
RELEASING OFFICES

(E)
AC/WH/1
COORDINATING OFFICES

Reichhardt
A. STANULIS
AC/WH/L
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)