# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO 95-1366774 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

SECRET

FRP: STAFF

CONF: CE/W/MB INFO: CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, COMPT, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD,
FILE, CE/W, DDO (4/P)

95 1366774 ASO PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 404768

SECRET

STAFF TOT: 152211Z AUG 95 152211Z DIRECTOR 404768

TO: IMMEDIATE MINSK.

FROM: LIMIT C/CE/W/MB INFO C/CE/W

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT CODEL

SUBJECT: DRAFT BRIEFING PAPER AND OSWALD FILES

REF: A. MINSK 14140 95 13601.7.8
B. DIRECTOR 398108 95 1311426.

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE CORRECT DRAFT BRIEFING_PAPER TO REFLECT CHANGES REQUESTED_IN_PARA 3, BELOW.

2. RE PARA 2, REF A: THE BACKGROUND OF THE OFFER TO PROVIDE *THE<LEE HARVEY OSWALD>FILES WAS TRANSMITTED TO STATION ON 9 AUG VIA REF B THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THE MATTER WAS TURNED OVER TO *THE FBI BECAUSE OF THE SENSITIVITY CONNECTED WITH THE KENNEDY> *<ASSASSINATION->WE ARE QUERYING THE FBI TO SEE WHERE THE MATTER STANDS. YOU ARE WELCOME TO PASS THIS ALONG TO THE AMBASSADOR. WE WILL ADVISE AS SOON AS THE FBI RESPONDS TO OUR REQUEST.

3. PAGES ONE AND TWO OF YOUR BRIEFING PAPER ARE RIGHT ON THE MARK. PAGE THREE HOWEVER CONTAINS_SOME_ISSUES_THAT_WE_REQUEST YOU DELETE AND/OR SOFTEN.

A. FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH 4. DO NOT DISCUSS ANY UNILATERAL OPERATIONS WITH THE SENATOR. WE ARE CONCERNED WITH ANY DISCUSSION OF SOURCES; IN THIS INSTANCE THE CASE IS INACTIVE AND WOULD NOT_ADD TO YOUR DISCUSSION.

B. PARAGRAPH 7. PLEASE REDRAFT TO READ AS FOLLOWS: REGARDING EMBASSY SECURITY, OUR CONCERN IS THAT WITHOUT A 24 HOUR PRESENCE WE DO NOT HAVE AN EFFECTIVE DETERRENT TO SURREPTITIOUS ENTRY. ELECTRONIC SECURITY DEVICES WILL ONLY TELL US THAT AN ENTRY HAS BEEN MADE, IT WILL NOT STOP AN ENTRY. SECURITY AT EMBASSY MINSK WAS RECENTLY DISCUSSED BY CE OFFICERS WITH THE SSCI, WHO HAVE EXPRESSED THEIR CONCERN TO THE DEPARTMENT. THE FACT, OF COURSE, IS THAT STATE DEPARTMENT DOES NOT HAVE SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO HAVE MARINE GUARDS AT ALL LOCK AND LEAVE EMBASSIES AND NWBOLTON APPRECIATES THAT. (FYI: THIS IS A PARTICULARLY CONTENTIOUS ISSUE WITH THE AMBASSADOR. WE SEE NO POINT IN ALIENATING_HIM_BY PUTTING

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-1366774 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 2

HIM ON THE_SPOT_WITH_THE_SENATOR WHEN, IN FACT, THIS MATTER IS
BEING SORTED OUT IN WASHINGTON.)

C. PARAGRAPH 8. PLEASE DELETE IT. HOS HAS NOT AGREED
TO ALL OF THE PERSONNEL REQUIREMENTS YOU NOTED SO WE WOULD PREFER
THAT THEY NOT BE DISCUSSED WITH THE SENATOR.

3. PLEASE ADVISE IF YOU DID NOT RECEIVE REF B AND WE WILL
   RETRANSMIT. REGARDS AND GOOD LUCK!

4. FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>

RELNO: E224938
ORIG: C/CE/W/MB(DOWDON,73516); AUTH: C/CE/W (WEBER); REL:
C/CE/W.(WEBER).CL BY 520992.

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)