# SECRET

MHFNO: 95-0938136 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

FRP: STAFF

CONF: C/PCS INFO: C/NR, C/ORMS, LIMITO, MDSX, NR/PGO, ODPD,
OGC/LIT, PCDORECORD, FILE (2/P)

95 0938136 ASO PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 346331
TOT: 031840Z JUL 95

TO: IMMEDIATE ORLANDO.

FROM: LIMIT CHIEF/PCS INFO CHIEF/NR, NR/PGO, OGC/LIT

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUEST TO CONTACT FORMER NWBOLTON EMPLOYEES

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLS HAVE STATION OFFICER CONTACT TWO FORMER NWBOLTON OFFICERS BY COB 5 JULY AND CONTACT NVTAG/JACKSONVILLE FOR_ASSISTANCE IN LOCATING_IDEN_B_PER_PARA 3B.

2. AS YOU MAY KNOW, NWBOLTON HAS BEEN COOPERATING WITH *THE<ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD, THE PANEL CHARGED WITH *RELEASING DOCUMENTS ON THE<JFK ASSASSINATION, BY CONDUCTING A DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW AND PASSING APPROPRIATE DOCUMENTS. THE PANEL HAS SELECTED ITS FIRST BATCH OF DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED PUBLICLY, WHICH CONTAINS THE TRUE NAMES OF TWO FORMER SVLIONZ OFFICERS WHO RETIRED (*COVERTLY* IN THE 1970S *AND*, TO HQS *KNOWLEDGE*) *CHAVE NOT BROKEN COVER!* IN ORDER TO CHALLENGE THE BOARD'S DECISION, WE NEED TO SHOW THAT CERTAIN CONDITIONS EXIST PURSUANT TO THE LANGUAGE OF THE APPLICABLE LAW. THUS, WE NEED THE INPUT OF THE *TWO* FORMER OFFICERS TO COMPLETE OUR RESEARCH AND WRITTEN RESPONSE. WE REQUEST *STATION'S* ASSISTANCE IN CONTACTING THEM AND DEMONSTRATING TO THEM THAT THE REQUEST FOR INFORMATION IS AUTHORIZED AND LEGITIMATE.

3. *SPECIFICALLY*, WE WOULD LIKE AN OFFICER WHO HAS NWBOLTON ALIAS DOCUMENTS TO CALL THE FORMER EMPLOYEES (*IDENS A* *AND* B), IDENTIFY HIMSELF AS A *COLLEAGUE-FROM_THEIR FORMER* EMPLOYER AND REQUEST A BRIEF MEETING. IF IDENS ARE AMENABLE, PLEASE EXPLAIN IN PERSON THAT HQS IS FACED WITH THE POSSIBLE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THEIR NWBOLTON AFFILIATION. WE NEED TO KNOW THEIR DATES/PLACES OF ALL OF THEIR TOURS, THE MOST SENSITIVE OPERATIONS IN WHICH THEY WERE INVOLVED AND ANY OTHER NWBOLTON EQUITIES THEY ARE AWARE OF THAT WOULD BE AFFECTED BY REVELATION OF THEIR FORMER EMPLOYΜΕΝΤ. STATION CAN THEN CABLE THE INFORMATION SECURELY TO HQS.

A. IN THE CASE OF IDEN A, HQS ALREADY CONTACTED HIM AND WAS ADVISED HE NEEDED MORE TIME TO EVALUATE THE CONSEQUENCES OF LIFTING HIS COVER. BELIEVE HE WOULD BE MORE COMFORTABLE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-0938136 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 2

DISCUSSING PERSONAL_AND_OPERATIONAL DATA IN_PERSON_THAN OVER AN OPEN PHONE

B. IDEN B POSES MORE OF A PROBLEM BECAUSE HQS HAS BEEN UNABLE SO FAR TO GET A CURRENT ADDRESS AND PHONE NUMBER FOR HER. THE INFORMATION LISTED IN IDEN CABLE IS HER LAST KNOWN ADDRESS AND CURRENT P.O. BOX NUMBER. NVTAG/HQS LEARNED THAT SHE HAS AN UNPUBLISHED PHONE NUMBER AND THAT HER FLORIDA DRIVERS' LICENSE IS VALID UNTIL 2000. THEY ALERTED NVTAG/JACKSONVILLE THAT STATION WOULD BE CALLING TO COORDINATE LOCAL EFFORTS TO COMMUNICATE DIRECTLY WITH IDEN B. PLS LET US KNOW SOONEST IF, AFTER CONTACTING NVTAG JACKSONVILLE, STATION IS UNABLE TO LOCATE IDEN B.

4. HQS REGRETS THIS SHORT TIME FUSE DURING THE HOLIDAY AND TRULY APPRECIATES STATION''S ASSISTANCE_WITH THIS MATTER. THANKS VERY MUCH.

5. FILE: NONE. INDEX: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82>

ORIG: DC/PCS/CL/L (COHEN, 43923); AUTH: DC/PCS (); COORD:

UR/RGO-INFO: OGC/LIT(); REL: DC/NR. CL BY 2051283.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)