104-10071-10041

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
JSE ONLY

CO DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

C/CI/SO Richard Ober

EXTENSION
5847

NO. B-2628

DATE MAY 1971

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICER'S INITIALS

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. 
CI/SO Internst Use Only.
This memo is not to be disseminated outside CI/SO without prior permission from Chief, CI/SO.
Originated by: CI/SO:GMK:jm
Based on: Budapest 016, 18 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW) and Budapest 017, 19 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)
Source: JKLANCE/Hungarian Press
Dissem to FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier on: 21 MAY

ACTION:

B-2460 B-2809

16 qua 31 Aug

B-2470

18971

File:
WPC/Sens/BW
FAULKNER/Sens/GMK (201-354414/GK)
KUSHNER/Sens/BW (201-878516/BW)
GILMAN/Sens/BW (new)
DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201-854982/BW)
GARZA/Sens/BW (new)
COLBY/Sens/GMK (201-053968/GK)
KAHN/Sens/EC
KENT, Mrs./Sens/GK (201-221724/GK
PECK/Sens/BW (201-830466/BW)
KING/Sens/JD (201-760966/JD)
ABERNATHY/Sens/JD (201-853022/JD)
WALKER/Sens/JD
DOUTHARD/Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)
WYATT/Sens/BW
APTHEKER/Sens/BW (201-757176/BW)
GOODLETT/Sens/BW (201-742726/EW)
Production Budapest
Production JKLANCE

7527

FORM
3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM PROAL

B-2628
21 MAY 1971

SUBJECT: Americans Attending the World Peace Council (WPC) Conference in Budapest, Hungary, 13-16 May 1971

1. A reliable source has reported that the following Americans spoke at the indicated committee meetings of the WPC Conference:

A. Stanley FAULKNER, Committee on European Peace and Security;

B. Sylvia KUSHNER, Committee on Indochina Aggression;

C. John GILMAN, Committee on the Near East;

D. Mary Angie DICKERSON, Section Meeting Discussing Discrimination;

E. Luis GARZA, Section Meeting Discussing Discrimination; and

F. Ruth GAGE-COLBY, Committee on Disarmament.

All of the above-named persons were identified specifically as members of the U.S. delegation.

2. According to the same source, S. FAULKNER, "Vice President of the American National Lawyers' Association," functioned as President in a meeting of lawyer delegates to the Congress and the American delegate Albert KAHN translated a message from the widow of artist Rockwell KENT to the Conference.

3. In its final coverage on 18 May of the WPC Conference, which ended 16 May, the Hungarian Press made the following additional observations regarding United States participants:

A. Sidney PECK, identified as "USA Professor," spoke on the war in Vietnam;

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD

B. The WPC awarded the JOLIOT-CURIE COLD MEDAL posthumously to the Reverend Martin Luther KING. The medal was accepted by the Reverend Ralph ABERNATHY and the Reverend Wyatt T. WALKER, "an American peace fighter." A photograph of the presentation ceremony also included William DOUTHARD and Mrs. Addie WYATT as U.S. delegates to the Conference;

C. U.S. delegates Ruth GAGE-COLBY and Sylvia KUSHNER spoke at a meeting of Indochinese and American delegates; and

D. Americans Herbert APTHEKER and Carlton GOODLETT were re-elected to the Presidential Board of the WPC.

4. For previous information on Subject, please refer to our teletype 3216, dated 14 May 1971, Subject: Ralph David ABERNATHY and Dr. Carlton GOODLETT.

Please transmit reply via CACTUS channel

Originated by: CI/SO:GMKline:jm
Based on: BUDAPEST 016, 18 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW) and BUDAPEST 017, 19 May 71 (WPC/Sens/BW)
Source: JKLANCE/Hungarian Press
Distribution:
Original - FBI (Mr. Wannall) via CI/SO courier
1 - B memo chrono
1 - extra copy
1 - WPC/Sens/BW
1 - FAULKNER/Sens/GMK (201-354414/GK)
1 - KUSHNER/Sens/BW (201-878516/BW)
1 - GILMAN/Sens/BW (new)
1 - DICKERSON/Sens/BW (201-854982/BW)
1 - GARZA/Sens/BW (new)
1 - COLBY/Sens/GMK (201-053968/GK)
1 - KAHN/Sens/EC
1 - KENT, Mrs./Sens/GK (201-221724/GK)
1 - PECK/Sens/BW (201-830466/BW)
1 - KING/Sens/JD (201-760966/JD)
1 - ABERNATHY/Sens/JD (201-853022/JD)
1 - WALKER/Sens/JD
1 - DOUTHARD/Sens/BW (201-857634/BW)
1 - WYATT/Sens/BW
1 - APTHEKER/Sens/BW (201-757176/BW)
1 - GOODLETT/Sens/BW (201-742726/EW)
1 - Production Budapest
1 - Production JKLANCE

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/NO DISSEM ABROAD


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)