# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# ISPATCH

**CLASSIFICATION**

**SECRET**

**PROCESSING**

| PRO- POSED | ACTION                               | ACCOM- PLISHED |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------- |
|            | MARKED FOR INDEXING                  |                |
|            | NO INDEXING REQUIRED                 |                |
|            | HEADQUARTERS DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING |                |
|            | ABSTRACT                             |                |
|            | MICROFILM                            |                |

**INFO** Acting Chief of Station, L-ta

**FROM** Chief, Far East Division

**SUBJECT** Visit of Identities

**ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES**

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE : DBA-12821 (25 June 62)

1.  OKENVY reports that they were advised by Identity A that his associate, Identity B would be visiting Djakarta in mid-July and that probably he (Identity A) would be summoned by General Jani in the near future to assist in procurement activities for the military.

2.  Identity A expressed himself as being willing at the same time to serve ODYOKE without renumeration, on a confidential basis or otherwise, if his services can be of assistance.

3.  Identity A has done some dickering with the local attache regarding aeronautical spare parts for which export permits have been difficult to obtain, claiming that he would have no difficulty in obtaining permits if the parts were purchased through his organisation.

4.  Identity A has also been in contest with another ODYOKE component since January 62 and therefore cannot be approached by KUBARK.

Attachments:

Idens U.S.C. True Ease Pouch

Distributions:

2 - Djakarta

23 July 1962

![signature of Chester D. Dalsold]
CHESTER D. DALSOLD

FORWARDED herewith

201-41581

DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED

23 July 62 27 JUL 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

PHDW- 5498

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

SECRET

41581

| # FE/PIA | ROUTING | INITIAL |
| -------- | ------- | ------- |
| RID/AN   |         | RBH     |
| RTD/ZIS  |         |         |
| EX/F/S   |         |         |
| RID/AN   |         |         |
| EL/WAT   |         |         |
| DESTROY  |         |         |

OFFICE FE/PIA/ FILE Dexter E. Kelpe. ORIGINATING

OFFICE SYMBOL: DATE : COORDINATING: jdk

OFFICER'S NAME: 5503

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE RELEASING

CFE 26 esmond 1 Gerald

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM 6100 WHICH MAY BE USED

DISPA CH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

IDENTITIES U.S.C.

TRUE NAME POUCH Att. to

FHDW-5498

IDENTITY A I Irving Davidson, Public Relations, 1612 K St., N.W.

IDENTITY B Paul Pesik, formerly employed by the Indonesian Embassy, Washington.

FNDW-5493
23 July 1962
Encl. #1

SECRET ES COPY

201-41581


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)