# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

FILE

FILE, CS/EE, DCI, 4/SCl, DCI(GOODWIN), DRE APRE, CAZ, CO/OPER
CI. COPE CHILE EL, 5026, COSA EUSZ, SpRE, scd. pa/2

07-0542 CITE JAVE 3413

DIRECTOR

TYPIC BELLA NAPOLI

1. EVENING 5 OCTOBER ORLANDO BOSCH GIVEN THREE YEAR
   SUSPENDED SENTENCE BY NAPLES/COURT WHEN FOUND GUILTY OF
   TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES WITHOUT LICENSE IN APRIL 66. TWO
   COMPANIONS TO BE TRIED SEPARATELY.

2. EVENING 5 OCTOBER AMOT REPORTED THAT ANTAUP-2 HAD
   BEEN TELEPHONED BY JORGE CUITERREZ ULLA, CHIEF OF
   PROPAGANDA OF HIRR, TO ATTEND PRESS CONFERENCE & OCTOBER.

AKIA J/E ALSO REPORTED THAT AT TRAWL JORGE VEGA, SOSCH
DEFENSE ATTORNEY, HAD MADE STATEMENT TO COURT TO EFFECT THAT
BOSCH SHOULD NOT BE CONVICTED BECAUSE HE WAS TRYING TO FREE
LAND FROM COMMUNIST DOMINATION AND IN DOING SO WAS NOT
ACTING ANY MORE ILLEGALLY THAN WAS MOFACT, WHICH WAS
CONDUCTING SAME TYPE OF ACTIVITY" FROM A BASE LOCATED AT
THE "CAYO GORDO" SECTION OF NAPLES.

3. "CAYO GORDO" UNDOUBTEDLY IS GARBLE FOR SOCOCH PASS
   AREA OF NAPLES AT WHICH BERTHING SITE FOR JAVAVE MARK I SWIFT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

LOCATED. HOWEVER, TIGGER MAS
3 WHEN REMOVED FOR OFS
USE AND STRAITS, WAS SCHEDULED RETURN TO CERTH CIRCA 1
OCTOBER. POSTPONED BECAUSE OF HURRICANE INEZ.
RIM, KEY LARGO, WILL NOT
VALOR SITE. AS WAS AWARE LATTER SITE
ALREADY SCHEDULED FOR TERMINATION OCTOBER-NOVEMBER 66.

4. UPON RECEIPT AMOT INFO JMWAVE CONTACTED AND BRIFFED
   AGENTS SERVING AS CUSTODIANS AT NAPLES SITS. TO DATE THEY
   HAVE NOT REPORTED ANY QUERIES. OFFICIALS OF COVER CORPORATION,

(GULFLANT) WHICH OWNS RIGGER AND RENTS BERTHING SITE WERE
ALERTED AND BRIEFED 6 OCTOBER.

5. MORNING 6 OCTOBER AMTAUP-2 REPORTED PRESS CONFERENCE
   BUT THAT GUTIERREZ STATED HE HAD PHONED UPI,
   HOLD TO GIVE THEM PRESS RELEASE INCLUDING VEGA
   CLAIM RE. FOR NOT ACTIVITIES NAPLES AREA.

6. AS OF 1700 HRS 6 OCTOBER STATION HAD NOT SEEN ANY
   OF ALLEGED VEGA STATEMENTS. MIAMI HERALD
   AND COVERAGE OF TRAIL DID NOT MENTION
   CKING NAPLES PRESS COVERAGE OF TRIAL.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE 3 JOVAN 31 SECRET

7. AT GUTIERREZ REQUEST AMTAUP-2 TAPED STATEMENT FOR RADIO PROCRAM. REVISY OF STATEMENT BY ASOT SHOWS THAT WOSACT NOT PENTIONED.

8. ALTHO NO FIRM EVIDENCE TO DATE ANTICIPATE THAT MIPP MAY STEX PUBLICIZE FURTHER "REVELATIOONS RE JMWAVE ACTIVITY, NOTASLY RE COMBINED OPS FACILISTIES, ACTIVITIES, PERSONNEL. INFO FROM AMOT AND OTHER CONTACTS IN EXILE COMMUNITY INDICATES FELIPE RIVERO AND HIS ANC GROUP ALSO

TALING OF "EXPOSING" WCFACT ACTIVITIES. STATED AIM OF BOTH GROUPS IS TO SHOW "TVO-FACED ATTITUDE OF U.S. GOVT WHICH STOPS ANTI-COMMUNIST EXILE FIGHTERS FROM USING U.S..

AS BASE FOR ACTION AGAINST CASTRO CUBA BUT ALLOYS WOFACT TO CARRY OUT SUCH ACTIVITY. FURTHER AIMS ARE TO SHOW EXILE COMMUNITY THAT MIRR AND ANC ARE "ACTIVIST" GROUPS AS COMPARED WITH OTHER EXILE ORGS AND TO RIDICULE AND TRY INTIMIDATE THOSE CUBANS WHO WORK FOR JMWAVE,

9. STATION EVALUATES INCIDENT AS HAVING NO SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE EFFECT ON OPS OR GENERAL STATION SECURITY. STATION HAS DIRECTED INCREASED STATE OF VIGILANCE AT ALL COMBINED OPS SITES BUT DOES NOT ENVISAGE ANY BASIC CHANGES IN COVER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

SECURITY PROCEDURES WHICH HAVE PROVIDED PEQUIRED
LEVEL OF PLAUSIBLE DENIAL PLUS EFFECTIVE MASKING OF
SENSITIVE DATA RE COMBINED OPS.

SECRET

BT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)