# 104-10298-10184 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PA.

DATE 27 MAY 62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: JAWAVE

ACTION: TFW 10(MR CHARLES MATT, JEW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED

INFO: DCI, DDP, ADDP, CA 2, GA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

MAY 27 22162 62

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 41885

OPPY DIS CITE WAVE 4777

GYNOSE

1. MIAMI HERALD 27 MAY CAPPIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN ENTITLED "HIRO FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY". ARTICLE FLATLY STATES NIRO AND COUNCIL HAVE BEEN REPLACED BY MANUEL RAY WITH RACKING GOU MONOZ MARIN, PPES ROCILO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES JOSE FIGUERAS, THAT RAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST WITH THE BLESSING OF THE UNITED STATES". FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES "FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD LEARNED THAT MIRO WAS NOTIFIED OF CHANGE ONLY THIS WEEK" AND THAT PAYS REAPPOINIMENT AS CHIEF IN EXILE" CAME FROM "UNDERGROUND IN CUBA" ACCORDING TQ. JOAQUIN GODOY, PROVISIONAL MRP HEAD IN MIAMI. AFTER FURNISHING RESUME CUPAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN OF AMBUD, ARTICLE CREDITS CUBANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD IS ADOLF A. BERLE JR. WHO HAS BEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO "MEMBER OF PRES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA". IMPLICATION BEING THAT BERLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED CUBAN EFFORT.

2. THIS RELEASE CAUSING SOME FUROR IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT AT LEAST ONE OPS AGENT DESTINED FOR ISOLATION TRAINING HAS ASKED TO BE RELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

PAGE 2
WAVE 4077 IN 41885

CHECKS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE CONTACTSS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN
VILLIAN'S. VIHALDA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN JOURNALISTIC REPUTATION
INDICATES HE INACCURATE AND SENSATIONALIST. ANCLATTER-1 AND PASSOV OY
ATTE PTING DISCREETLY TRACE BUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."

3. PUCHANAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO IE DURING RETURN FLAYA
   GIPOH PRISONERS MIAMI. HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE
   ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD
   ATTE PIS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CUBA.

۸. EXPECT ASTICLE WILL HAVE FURTHER REPROCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS.
   WISH ALERT HOS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT
   PUCHANAN STORY AS WELL AS REASSURE MIRO WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS
   DECADD AFTER WE HAVE OPPORTUNITY FURTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

5. POUCHING CLIPRING 28 MAY

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)