# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> 
> ![Classified message with routing information]

# SECRET

DATE: 16 DECEMBER 1958

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: HAVANA

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: COP, FI, FI/OPS, FI/RON 3, PP*2*, PP/PRO, PP/PYD 2, PP/PMO, 100 4, DO/I, AD/CI, S/C 2

TO: DIR INFO: [SACU]

CITE: HAVA 0693

ROUTINE: IN 38553

DA 16 DEC

APPR: PARAS 1,4 (2) PARAS 2,3 (3) PARAS 5-6

SOURCE: PARA 1 [GEORGE K HARPER, LAS VILLAS PLANTATION]

OWNER (F) PARAS 2,3 AMARIA (B) PARA 4 AMBARK-1 (C) PARA 5

[HARRY GRAHAM] (F) FROM DR MEMBER (F)

1. ERNESTO GUEVARA HAS MOVED WESTWARD. HIS EXACT LOCATION NOT KNOWN BUT 165 MEN THOUGHT TO BE UNDER HIS COMMAND ARE CAMPED NEAR MANACAS IN WEST LAS VILLAS.

GUEVARA IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE BELIEVED TO BE TO CUT OFF CENTRAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC WEST OF SANTA CLARA. FC: AMBARK-2 CONFIRMS THIS REBEL STRATEGY, SAYS MAY BE PLANNING TRY CUT HIGHWAY AT SANTO DOMINGO. SC: HEAVY TRUCKS CANNOT TRAVEL EAST OF SANTA CLARA. BACKROADS CAN BE USED BY AUTOS AND LIGHT TRUCKS.

2. 26TH OF JULY REPLACING CTC LABOR OFFICIALS WITH OWN PEOPLE ON SUGAR CENTRALES WHICH IT CAPTURES.

CONRAD BEQUER DIAZ, WITH HQS IN SIERRA MAESTRO, IN CHARGE OF THE PROGRAM.

> 
> ![Form 1389 note] SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 16 DECEMBER 1959

TO

FROM

ACTION

INFO

ROUTINE IN 38553 HAVA 0693

INFO CITE

3. MANUEL RAY, MRC CHIEF, IS VISITING SIERRA MAESTRA FOR CONFERENCE WITH FIDEL CASTRO DISCUSS CASTRO DESIRE DISSOLVE MRC AND INCORPORATE IT INTO 26TH JULY.

4. SMALL FEU FORCE ACTIVE NEAR COLISEO IN MATANZAS. ARMS SHIPMENT SEIZED IN CAYO HUESO, FLA WEEK 7 DEC WAS PURCHASED BY FEU FOR USE IN HAVA.

5. BATISTA HAS CONTRACTED FOR SERVICES 2 FRENCH ARMY OFFICERS EXPERIENCED IN GUERRILLA WARFARE TO ADVISE CUBAN ARMY.

SUPDATA: HQS MAY WISH QUERY [PARI]ON PARA 5.

DISSEM EMB DEF ORALLY.

RELEASED 161830Z

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)