# DISPATCH

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

TO: Chief, WOLIME

INFO: Chief of Station, London; Chief, WOMUSE;
Chief, EUR Division

FROM: Chief, LCPIPIT/London

SUBJECT: MHALPHA/MHPROBE/BODIGAST

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

Reference: OEPA-984, dated 18 March 1968

1. The purpose of this dispatch is to raise what we believe to be an operational prospect worth careful study. The proposal is necessarily somewhat tentative at this point, but we believe it is desirable to share it with Headquarters now in order that its early consideration may be facilitated.

2. As you are aware, RODIGAST has developed excellent contacts with individuals active in the Paris SNCC group. Identity A, who is one of these, has recently become increasingly active in the affairs of the SNCC group (which largely centers around several young girls recently arrived from the US) and has come to play a rather important role since she brings to it a sophistication and articulateness which the *several* group lacks.

Identity A would not normally have become active in the SNCC group. She is older and holds "moderate" views of the sort held by the late Dr. Martin Luther King. However, she recently took a rather militant position at a public discussion of civil rights (primarily to avoid confrontation with and criticism by the SNCC girls) after which she was admiringly besieged by the girls who were anxious to have her assistance in preparation of speeches, etc. In this regard please see Reference. Partly because she has the time and partly because she was flattered, Identity A accepted and has grown daily more involved in SNCC matters. At the moment she is devoting virtually full time to this.

Attachment: u/s/c (2)

1- Identity Sheet

2-Biographical data

Distribution:

1 - C/WOLIME w/atts

1 - C/EUR w/atts

1 - C/WOMUSE w/att s

1 - COS/London w/atts

/Continued.../

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OEPA-1058

DATE: 17 April 1968

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

HQS FILE NUMBER: 100-6-148/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

3. RODIGAST reports that Identity A is charming, highly female,
   definitely intelligent and something of an "actress" in that she is
   often willing to tell people what they want to hear; indeed, this is
   what she did at the public discussion mentioned above. At the same
   time she is committed to the civil rights movement. You will note
   from the biographical data which we are forwarding under separate
   cover, that she has worked in civil rights activities before and at
   one point assisted in the organization of a march led by Dr. King.
   RODIGAST, who is a personal friend of the family (she is divorced
   and has a teen-aged girl) in addition to being the representative of
   her publisher, has gotten to know her very well over the past years.
   He reports that she is basically a loyal, moderate and anti-Communist
   person who comes from a middle class family in Detroit where her
   parents were active in the anti-Communist activities of the United
   Auto Workers. At one point RODIGAST had proposed her for possible
   use since she might be able to gain access to North Vietnam. This
   was rejected, however, because she was thought to be too moderate,
   respectable and pro-American to be of interest to the North Vietnamese.

4. All this has been altered by her recent involvement in the
   SNCC activities, and it is now RODIGAST's opinion that she offers
   what may be a unique opportunity to obtain the collaboration of
   someone in a position to report on the attempts by Communist, Castro-
   ist, and radical forces to influence and use the civil rights move-
   ment. Through her involvement in SNCC she has developed contacts
   with various groups which are flirting with SNCC such as the French
   Vietnam National Committee, Vietnamese student groups and the Che
   Guevara Circle-all targets of WOFIRM.

5. At the moment she is the most glamorous figure the SNCC
   returns to the US this Spring, Identity A could easily develop into
   a leading public representative of SNCC. Another candidate for a
   leading role in SNCC following the departure of Identity B is the
   Marxist oriented Identity C-although she is somewhat shy and prefers
   to operate behind the scene. Thus we can envision a situation where
   Identity A might become most influential, if only by default.

6. RODIGAST is convinced that Identity A would be willing to
   collaborate with her government but stresses that the approach to
   her would require great skill and must be done by an individual with
   whom she could feel rapport. He reiterates that she is sincerely
   anti-Communist, and that she does not share the beliefs of the
   militant black racists, although she certainly is a convinced ad-
   vocate of the civil rights struggle. RODIGAST suggests that any
   approach to her must stress respect for her commitment to the civil
   rights movement. This approach should emphasize that Communist
   exploitation of the movement is in the interest of neither the move-
   ment nor the nation and should request her collaboration in report-
   ing on foreign (and only foreign) attempts to exploit the situation.
   As an alternative to this direct approach, we believe that consider-
   ation should be given to the desirability of merely stating that
   because her activity in the civil rights movement she has been
   thrown into contact with Vietnamese, Cubans, etc. of interest to
   WOFIRM and on whom we would welcome reports. This line has the
   virtue of having less blow-back potential should our approach be
   declined and we would hope that once a relationship with her had
   been established she would volunteer information on SNCC and its
   foreign involvement. Reinforcing the approach RODIGAST suggests
   that she be offered a small payment of, say, $200 per month to assist
   her in meeting the obligations of living abroad. This payment will


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH CLASSIFICATION DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
SECRET/RYBAT OEPA-1058

be attractive to her since she is somewhat lazy. She is now living
on a grant from Identity D which is designed to give her the finan-
cial independence to write another book. However, she has done no
writing yet and is beginning to be concerned regarding her source
of income when the grant expires at the end of the year.

7. Time is of great importance in any approach to Identity A,
   in RODIGAST's view. He stresses that she is becoming concerned
   regarding future income and may soon begin withdrawing from SNCC
   activities in order to begin writing. More importantly, her normal
   instincts may soon lead to a falling out with Identity C and other
   radicals who are active in SNCC. If this happens it can be expected
   to severely reduce her access. Were she in contact with WOFIRM,
   however, such arguments with target personalities could be avoided
   through careful WOPIRM guidance.

8. Thus we are presented with what appears to be an opportunity
   to gain a collaborator who might be able to provide information of
   the highest interest regarding Communist efforts to use SNCC, and
   who might be able to gain access to various other radical groups
   at least abroad, seem to be virtually unapproachable and thus this
   opportunity may be almost unique. At the same time, there appears
   to be a rather critical time factor operative here.

9. In addition, rather fondamental questions are raised by
   this possibility, which will certainly require careful consideration
   prior to any approach to Identity A. We are impressed with the
   thoroughness of RODIGAST's assessment of this operational possibility,
   and believe it warrants serious consideration by Headquarters. We
   have no reports regarding the impact of the assassination of Dr.
   Martin Luther King on Identity A and the other members of the SNCC
   group-although our guess is that it will only accelerate forces
   now in operation and render more important, even critical, the
   consideration of this proposal.

10. We request that an appropriate clearance of Identity A be
    expedited and that we be advised as soon as possible whether or not
    Headquarters wishes to pursue further the exploration of this
    proposal.

Adrian B. MASLOTT

CLASSIFICATION PAGE NO.

53 a USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
SECRET/RYBAT CONTINUED 3 of 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET RYBA

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO:

ΟΕΡΑ-1058

IDENTITIES

A - Carlene Hatcher Polite

B - Emily Moore

C - Julia Herve'

D - The National Council on the Arts (USA)

BECRETRYBAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# RESUME

CARLENE POLITE

26 rue des Lyonnais

Paris 5e

PORT Royal: 66-52

BIRTH DATE: August 28, 1932
Detroit, Michigan
U.S.A.

EDUCATION: Detroit Public Schools - 1937 - 1949 (Diploma)

Resident/Student/Employee - New York City
1949-1959

DETROIT, MICHIGAN:

Detroit Council for Human Rights
8014 Grand River Avenue
Detroit 4, Michigan
Reverend C.L. FRANKLIN, CHAIRMAN

May, 1963 - November, 1963

Coordinator/Special Assistant to the Chairman

Duties/Responsibilities included:

Coordination of state-wide organizations for June 23rd

WALK TO FREEDOM WITH MARTIN LUTHER KING - Cobo Hall Arena
(with cooperation of all related City and Governmental Departments)

Coordination and complete organization of the

November 8th through 10th, 1963 NORTHERN NEGRO LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Carlene Polif Resume
- Page Two -

Michigan State Democratic State Central Committee
847 Book Building
Washington Boulevard
Detroit 26, Michigan

August, 1962 - May, 1963
Assistant Office Manager

Spring Electoral Campaign (1963) Coordinator

Citizens for Sound Government
1601 Washington Boulevard Building
Detroit 26, Michigan

December, 1962 - February, 1963 (Executive Secretary)

January, 1983 - Elected by the Voters of the 13th Congressional
District (State of Michigan) to the Michigan
Democratic State Central Committee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Carlene Pote Resume
Page Three

NEW YORK CITY:
1949 - 1959

Student/Dancer - Martha Graham School of Contemporary Dance
Company Member - Edith Stephen Dance Group
YM/YWHA - 92nd Street - Young Dancers Concert Series
Dancer - Amato Opera - Metropolitan Opera

Dancer/Actress:
The Boyfriend
Dark of the Moon
The Disenchanted
Children's Theatre
The King and I

Office Manager - Vanguard Playhouse - Equity Theatre - Detroit
September, 1960 - June, 1961

ADDENDA:

Guest Artist - Wayne State University - Detroit
Conversations in the Arts - 1960

Guest Instructor (Dance). Wayne State University
Dancer's Workshop

Dancer/Teacher - YWCA - Cranbrook Academy of the Arts
Detroit Department of Parks and
Recreation

Dancer/Model for Nation-wide Television - National Auto Show
Representing General Motors (Chevrolet Division)
November, 1963 - August, 1964 - Detroit PLAYBOY Club
(the Bunny Viva...)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)