# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

104-10188-10023

FROM: (Headquarters component)

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

WH/1

TO:

IP/AN

TO: (Station/Base)

Mexico City

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FROM: (Division)

WHD

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYMBOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELEMENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.

ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE ANY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RELATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST: ITEM 10 MAY ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING REQUESTED. TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION REQUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

## INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

1. TYPE OF FILE

SUBJECT PROJECT

2. COUNTRY NUMBER

050

CODE FILE NUMBER
CATEGORY NUMBER

006

SPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER

074/2

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT/PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES)

KDFACTOR

4. ANALYSIS ACTION

OPEN FILE X CLOSE FILE (INDICATE DISPOSITION)

AMEND FILE TITLE

REOPEN

ACTION REQUIRED

5. DISPOSITION

RETAIN x

DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED
THRU (DATE)

6. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION)

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY)

HMM

9. HOLD IN CS FILES

RESTRICTED x

UNRESTRICTED

8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK FIRST)

050

FILES ACTION

PREPARE FOLDER AND SEND TO REQUESTER

CHANGE PERMANENTLY TO
OFFICER & DESK)

10. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

11. ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK OR Q.

![signature of branch desk]

#635

EFFECTIVE DATE

23 July 1973

FORM 812 OBSOLETE EDITIONS
12-63 OBS. 12-63

12. COORDINATION

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O. (WHEN APPLICABLE)

50

SECRET

13. RID APPROVAL

REQUEST APPROVED BY

![request approved by]

CODE (FILE) NUMBER

06

74/2

38 1-CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 1 of 1
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS
ACTION UNIT
TSD-500 FILE VR / 1226 WH/18 DOP FL
SECRET 141955Z MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236
DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR
AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR
REF A. HOMA-41502
B. PANTECH 1879S (IN 559398)
1. PLS PROCURE TWO 1000 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES
   WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.
2. FOR PANTECH: NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS
   UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-1.
   SECRET

560463

File
KDAFGHAN
KDFACTOR
Support Fideliv

SECRET

Does this need WH/Log handling?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CABLE SECHETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PENSONIUNIT NOTΙΓΙΕΟ

ADVANCE COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When filled in)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

REFER TO CF FILE NO.

☐ FILE AND ☐ RETURN TO

AT!

DISSEM BY 15

ACTION UNIT

FILE. VR. 75D 6

029

ACTION NO.

ACTION CHANGE

MEXICO CITY 19236
(STATION & NUMBER)

IN 560463-A
(IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM: TSD
(DIVISION)

TO: WH
(DIVISION)

BY: Bert Lower TSD 3121
(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH : Kin Herdream WA 8252
(NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

INFO
Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT
KDFACTOR Project Amendment

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. Project KDFACTOR was amended 10 December 1971 for $4,260 for FY 1971 to cover the termination bonuses for KDFACTOR-1 and KDFACTOR-7. The Project amendment also provides funds of $19,000 for FY 1972 and $20,000 for FY 1973.

2. One of the provisos of the Project amendment is that the Station furnish Headquarters an updated security review of this operation with particular attention of the knowledgeability of terminated agents and their families. The Station should also address itself to the contingency that the present sites or personnel will be blown and investigate alternate means of continuing the KDFACTOR coverage. Please forward the security review to arrive at Headquarters no later than 15 March 1972.

Leslie D. CLEBANOFF

Dist:
2 - COS, Mexico City

NOT SUITABLE FOR

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

1 - WH/1
1 - IP

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMW-18773

DATE
23 DEC 1971
typed 21 Dec 1971

HOSTILE NUMBER
50-6-74/2

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

OFFICE
WH/L/FI/CI

OFFICER
Hernandez

ORIGINATING
dm

EXT
4167

OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME

OFFICE SYMBOL
C/WH/L

DATE
21-12-71

RELEASING

OFFICER SIGNATURE
John C. Murray

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO: Chief, Soviet Bloc Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Turnover of LIEMPTY Project

ACTION REQUIRED: None. For your information.

REFERENCE: HMMA-39,679, 28 October 1970

1.  Primary responsibility for the operational and administrative handling of the LIEMPTY Project was transferred, effective 1 December 1970, within the Station from the REDTOP, to the Operational Support Section. This transfer was made as part of our effort to consolidate basic support functions in the Operational Support Section, and to relieve the REDTOP Section of activities which do not contribute directly to the pursuit of priority recruitment targets. However, the REDTOP Section will continue to be the principal consumer of the LIEMPTY product as received from the LILYRIC and LICALLA photo surveillance points. It will also be the main provider of guidance and requests for special LILYRIC/LICALLA coverage.

2.  The previous REDTOP Case Officer (Bruce H. FERNALD) introduced the new Case Officer, Howard T. BAGAUS, to LIEMPTY-9, -13, and -14 in early December. LIMOUSINE, owner of the LILYRIC property, will continue to be handled by Timothy M. ARCHBOLD of the REDTOP Section.

Howard J. ARCHADLE

DISTRIBUTION:

-2 - C/WHD

1 - C/SBD

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-39,832

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 9 December 1970

HQS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-74/8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION.
PE SOWUNIT NOTIPLEC

ASSE MESSAGE

**SECRET**
(When Filled)

![image]

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

BY:

DISSEM BY
ACTION

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
LE TO FILE NO
ROHET TO

WH-8
767

RID COPY
FILEIR LOGS-4

BRANCH DESTROY Sia

SECRET 112130Z JUL 69 CITE MEXICO CITY 0915

11 JUL 69 00900.

DIRECTOR

ADMIN/LOGS/LIEMPTY

REFERENCES: A. DIRECTOR 19435

B. BOOK DISPATCH 6678

C. HMMTA-9673

1. KEYED TO REFERENCE S.

A. RAMBLER AMERICAN SEDAN

B. 1969

C. SERIAL AK-17560

D. MV-2947

Ε. 3258.25 USD PURCHAS PLUS 97.75 USD MEXICAN
TAX; TOTAL 3355.00 USD.

G. REGISTERED AS GERENDE PERSONAL VEHICLE. RECORDED
ON FINANCE VOUCHER 20038 DTD 9 JULY 1969

2. DISPOSAL MV - 2606 PEPORTED REFERENCE C.

SECRET

![signature]

**SECRET**

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

ORIG:
Damon Watters/sah
UNIT:
WH/Logistics
EXT:
6282
DATE:
10 July 1969
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: 24
CON: WH-811

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET 14

TO: MEXICO CITY
ADMIN LOGS LIEMPTY
REF: DIRECTOR 83554

REQUEST STATION ADVISE STATUS MV-2947 AND DISPOSITION
MV-2606. INFO NEEDED SOONEST FOR COMPILING NEW BUDGET ESTIMATES.

END OF MESSAGE

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

WH/1
DISTRIBUTION:
OL/SD/FSB/VS
SECRET

R. L. KING
C/WH/LOG
50-6-74

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

ORIG: H. Feverill/jt
UNIT: An/Logistics
EXT: 0252
DATE: 15 March 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 16

SECRET

![routing and initials - seen by]

BY A PER

CONFI WH8 BID COPY
FILE VE Ritan, Lasp

SECRET

MEXICO CITY

ADD'N LOCS LILOPTY

REF: MEXICO CITY 9438 (IN-11843)*

1. STATION AUTHORIZED DISPOSE MV-2606 PER FR 45-31(3) AND REPLACE LOCALLY WITH 1969 RAMBLER, COST NOT TO EXCEED $4000.00. MV-2947 APPLIES TO NEW VEHICLE.

2. ADVISE DESCRIPTION MV-2947 AND DISPOSAL ACTION MV-2606 WHEN ACCOMPLISHED IN ACCORDANCE WITH BD-6678.

3. FILE: 50-6-74/2

END OF MESSAGE

Wil Comment: *Reference requested approval to replace locally a 1963 Rambler which has reached 78,000 miles and is in need of repairs.

WH/B&F David
WH/1 A Matine

DISTRIBUTION:
OL/SD/FSB/VS

![signature of George A. Robertson]

William V. Brol
C/WILD

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

R.L. King
C/WH/LOG

13 mar 69
50-6-74/2

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

LIEMPTY LOGS

1. REQUEST APPROVAL REPLACE NV-2606, USED BY RAYMON H. GERENDE AS LIEMPTY PRINCIPAL AGENT. REPLACEMENT REQUESTED ON FOLLOWING GROUNDS:

   J. VEHICLE NEARLY SIX YEARS OLD AND HAD 72,000 MILES AS OF 1 MARCH 1969.

   B. IN NEXT SIX MONTHS VEHICLE WILL NEED REPAIRS TO ENGINE, BRAKES, STEERING AND BODY, ESTIMATED COST OF WHICH EXCEEDS 50 PER CENT OF CURRENT CASH VALUE OF CAR, WHICH ESTIMATED AT 1000 DOLLARS.

2. PLAN REPLACE MV-2506 WITH EQUIVALENT VEHICLE, COST NOT TO EXCEED 4000 DOLLARS. BELIEVE LOW-PRICED AMERICAN BRAND SEDAN SUCH AS RAMBLER AMERICAN WILL FIT OPERATIONAL, SECURITY, AND COVER REUIREMENTS. NECESSARY MONHDCAVAILABLE IN PROJECT AS STATION PROJECTS FYSS LIEMPTY OBLIGATIONS AT 35,000 DOLLARS AGAINST PROJECT APPROVAL OF 43,320 DOLLARS FOR FY69.

3. IF APPROVED, PLS INCREASE FIELD PROCUREMENT ALLOTMENT.

4. FILE: 50-6-74/2.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CALE SECRETARIAT OSSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESAGE
TOTAL COPES 17 ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SCEN HY

SECRET
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PHOHIII.TED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ANDLA YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
AIRE TO FILE NO.
76
FILE PID REF. TO BRANCH
ACTION WH 8 RID COPY R/AN, LOGS 4, MPS/BG
959

SECRET 112210Z MAR 69' CITE MEXICO CITY 9438

DIRECTOR 11 Mar 69 IN 11643
LIEMPTY LOGS

1. REQUEST APPROVAL REPLACE NV-2606, USED BY RAYMON H. GERENDE AS LIEMPTY PRINCIPAL AGENT. REPLACEMENT REQUESTED ON FOLLOWING GROUNDS:

J. VEHICLE NEARLY SIX YEARS OLD AND HAD 78,000 MILES AS OF 1 MARCH 1969.

B. IN NEXT SIX MONTHS VEHICLE WILL NEED REPAIRS TO ENGINE, BRAKES, STEERING AND BODY, ESTIMATED COST OF WHICH EXCEEDS 50 PER CENT OF CURRENT CASH VALUE OF CAR, WHICH ESTIMATED AT 1000 DOLLARS.

2. PLAN REPLACE NV-2606 WITH EQUIVALENT VEHICLE, COST NOT TO EXCEED 4000 DOLLARS. BELIEVE LOW-PRICED AMERICAN BRAND SEDAN SUCH AS RAMBLER AMERICAN WILL FIT OPERATIONAL, SECURITY, AND COVER REUIREMENTS. NECESSARY MONHDCAVAILABLE IN PROJECT AS STATION PROJECTS FYSS LIEMPTY OBLIGATIONS AT 38,000 DOLLARS AGAINST PROJECT APPROVAL OF 43,320 DOLLARS FOR FY69.

3. IF APPROVED, PLS INCREASE FIELD PROCUREMENT ALLOTMENT.

4. FILE: 50-6-74/2.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

HMMA 35208, 8 August 1968

LIEMPTY/6 terminated amicably and resettled by his son-in-law - was content with termination bonus of $1,736. Following termination, effective 31 May 1968, the LIMITED base house went out of existence - station did not retain apartment since coverage from LILYRIC is completely satisfactory.

LILYRIC personnel have done such good work that station now has better coverage than ever and at leas cost.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Nancy Perkins/rc
WH/1
6954
19 Apr 68

SECRET

MPS/BGZ ADDS ClOA.

SECRET

19 22 22 Z CITE DIRECTOR 93000
File LIEMPTY Support.7

REF: MEXICO CITY 5263 (IN 93773)*

1. LIEMPTY PROJECT STILL BEING PROCESSED. IF APPROVED AS SUBMITTED, WILL CONTAIN $42,185 FOR FISCAL 68. STATION SHOWS $31,071 OBLIGATED AS OF 31 MARCH, LEAVING BALANCE OF $11, 114. ON BASIS PAST EXPENDITURES, CAN PROJECT ROUTINE DISBURSEMENT OF ABOUT $10,000 DURING APRIL, MAY AND JUNE, WHICH WOULD INDICATE INSUFFICIENT FUNDS TO PAY $4,736 HAN BONUS, BARRING UNLIKELY POSSIBILITY YOUR UNLIQUIDATED OBLIGATIONS CAN BE LIQUIDATED SO AS TO COVER IT.

2. RATHER THAN RETRIEVE PROJECT BEFORE APPROVAL IN ORDER TO AMEND IT, SUGGEST YOU TERMINATE LIEMPTY/6 AND CLOSE LIMITED, AND PAY BONUS 1 JULY FROM FY 69 FUNDS

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Wish terminate LIEMPTY/6 and pay bonus. Will project funds cover this?

William V. BROE
C/WHD

SECRET

W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 50-6-14/3 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RET. BRANCH

DESTROY SIG. PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION: LUH 8. ☑ RID COPY. ADVANCE COPY: ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED

INFO: FILE, VR, CILOA, Corps/362

SECRET 181745Z APR 58 CITE MEXICO C.I.

DIRECTOR.

LIEMPTY

1. STATION PLANS TERMINATE LIEMPTY 6 AND CLOSE LIMITED BASE HOUSE EFFECTIVE 31 MAY 68. LIMITED COVERAGE NO 100%

COMPLETELY RELIABLE OR THOROUGH COF ADVANTING AGE AND FAT TAX. HEALTH LIEMPTY-6. LILYRIC BASE HOUSE WILL IN AND RATE INCREASE WORKING HOURS TO PROVIDE FULL SIX DAY COVERAGE.

CONTINUE UNCHANGED. TAKING INTO ACCOUNT SALARY INCREASES PLANNED FOR LILYRIC AND LICALLA PERSONNEL, ESTIMATE ANNUAL SAVINGS OF 4000 DOLLARS THRU LIMITED TERMINATION.

2. REQUEST APPROVAL PAY LIEMPTY-6 TERMINATION BONUS OF 59,200 FESOS (4756 DOLLARS) BASED ON STANDARD MCLEAN FORMULA OF THREE MONTHS SALARY PLUS ONE MONTH FOR EACH FULL YEAR OF SERVICE (THIRTEEN YEARS), AT CURRENT SALARY RATE 3.68 PESOS.

3. PLS ADVISE STATUS LIEMPTY PROJECT RENEW. ACTION INFO.

INFORM STATION TOTAL FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR FY 68. NEED INFO TO DETERMINE IF SUFFICIENT FUNDS AVAILABLE TO COVER PROPOSED TERMINATION BONUS.

SECRET

SECRET

| AN/PW    | FD  | LUH/1 |
| -------- | --- | ----- |
| ABSTRACT | X   | INDEX |

April 68

50-6-74/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# DISPATCH

INFO
Chief, WH

PISAO
Chief, SB

CLASSICA
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

Chief of Station, Mexico City

LIEMPTY/Memoranda of Oral Commitments

Forwarded herewith are authentic copies of Memoranda of Oral Commitments reflecting salary increases for the following LIEMPTY agents:

a. LIEMPTY-9 : Salary increased from 4,000 pesos to 4,500 pesos per month.

b. LIEMPTY-14 : Salary increased from 1,800 pesos to 1,900 pesos per month.

c. LIEMPTY-26 : Initial salary set at 700 pesos per month.

d. LIEMPTY-27 : Salary increased from 1,500 pesos to 1,800 pesos per month.

for/Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments:
MOCS (4)

Distribution:

2 - C/WH, w/atts.
2 - C/SB, w/atts.

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-34573

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

2 May 1968

HOS FILE NUMBER

50-6-74/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WII

INFO: Chief, SB

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: CLIEMPTY Properties

REFERENCE: HMMW-15952, 27 November 1967

1.  Headquarters' confusion regarding the various LIEMPTY properties is understandable, although each change in location was duly reported as it occurred, and at various times project renewal requests, progress reports, and other correspondence has pinpointed the locations of the base houses involved. The confusion undoubtedly stems from the unfortunate fact that LIMITED and LILYRIC in effect exchanged approximate locations in 1966 without changing cryptonyms. Up to this point, LIMITED had been in a building owned by WOFIRM (with LIMOUSINE fronting for WOFIRM). LILYRIC had been renting an apartment in a building in which WOFIRM had no financial interest. In 1965, however, LIMOUSINE bought the property containing the building in which LIMITED had been located, razed the building, and built a new building in which an apartment was rented to the Station (the rent, however, was to be returned to the Station for three years as partial payment on the loan which the Station had given LIMOUSINE so that he could buy the building). For various operational reasons it was decided to put the LILYRIC personnel into the new building, instead of the LIMITED crew, LIMITED was therefore moved into the building which LILYRIC had occupied. At this point, of course, new cryptonyms should probably have been assigned in order to avoid the confusion which has evidently developed. (This was not, however, simply a switch of personnel - each base house retained its organizational integrity, which is undoubtedly why crypts were not changed). As far as LICALLA Is concerned, the confusion

.......continued

Distribution:

2 - C/ WH, w/att.

2 - C/SB, w/att.

Attachment:

Identity Sheet (under separate cover)

![Identity Sheet]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH SECRET ICIMA-33814

Probably stems from the fact that, while its location has not changed, it is located within the LIMUST building, which is owned by BOFIRM (with LIMOUSINE acting as "front") and which is administered within the LIMESA project. As stated, however, all of this has been carefully documented for Headquarters. The LIMOUSINE purchase of the old LIMITED building generated consid- erable correspondence (see particularly MEXI 2159 and DIR 77745 of January 1965). IMMA-28322 and HMMA-30403 spelled out the reasons for switching LILYRIC and LIMITED, and the completion of the move was reported in HMMY-30687. Finally, sketches and plans of the LILYRIC and LIMITED houses in their new locations were forwarded with HMMA-31303, dated 7 February 1967. As far as LICALLA is concerned, its location and status was never open to question, and its location in the LIMEST complex is regularly mentioned in LIMESA progress renewal requests. The Station under- stands that a memo describing the locations of the various base houses was attached to the most recent LIMESA project renewal request when it was submitted to the staffs by WH/1.

2. Personnel within the base houses is also well-documented (most of the LIEMPTY progress reports have identified each agent in each house), and the personnel have never been switched from house to house. Perhaps the best rundown of these personnel is Raymond H. GERENDE's security review, forwarded with HMMA-31164, 24 January 1967.

3. Station Real Property reports are also, with one exception (MEXI-41), up-to-date and they reflect current condi- tions. MEXI-03 does, of course, include LICALLA. Nevertheless, the Station asked for $1800 for rent and utilities for the following reasons: first of all, utilities are an unrecoverable expense no matter who owns the apartment. Secondly, the rent, even though returned to the Station because MOFIRM owns the building, must physically be paid by the occupant of LICALLA. He, in turn, is reimbursed by the Station via GERENDE. LIMOUSINE eventually returns the money, at which tize it is credited to expense. This could, of course, be handled differently, but the Station has always found it convenient to finance in this manner, largely because finances with LIMOUSINE are handled on a semi- annual basis. The reimbursement, therefore, often comes many months after the payment.

4. The Station neglected to cancel MZXI-41, which should be done as it refers to LILYRIC in its old location, before the move in 1966. LILYRIC is now MEXI-132, and is in the building owned by LIMOUSINE. Rent payments are, as originally intended, being used to help liquidate LIMOUSINE's debt, and, as instructed in HMMS-4814, 15 June 1966, the Station is crediting this money to miscellaneous receipts. There can be, therefore, no question of the need to include money for LILYRIC rent and utilities in the LIEMPTY project. LILYRIC rent is, and has been since the apartment was occupied in October 1966, 3,000 pesos per month, which amounts to $2,880 per year ($3,200 has been requested in order to include utilities). Headquarters is correct in stating that the agreed-upon figure for the rent in this new building was 2,300 pesos per month. Statior files indicate that the reason for the increase (and this apparently was not reported to Headquarters) was that the bank which holds the major part of LIMOUSINE'S loan had determined that 3,000 pesos was a fair price for the apartment. The Station had, of course, no choice but to go along with this.

5. The Station has no record of MEXI-02, but it is likely that this is the old LIMITED apartment, which was indeed purchased by WOFIRM (via LIMOUSINE) in 1955. But since that building was later purchased and razed by LIMOUSINE, the old LIMITED apartment ceased to exist. The LIMITED base house was subsequently transferred to the building which had previously housed LILYRIC (but not to the same apartment), and LIMITED is


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRST

HYMA-33814

now carried, in its current location, as MEXI-113. As was the case with old LILYRIC, the rent money is not returned to the Station FOFIRY has no financial interest in the building. Thus it is evident that the LIEMPTY project renewal, which used to say 'LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to Station by LIMOUSINN and credited to Station miscellaneous receipts" should now carry the footnote "LICALLA rent is returned to the Station and credited to expense; LILYRIC rent is, and will be through September 1969, returned to the Station by LIMOUSINE and credited to miscellaneous receipts as partial payment on Station loan to LIMOUSINE."

6. Finally, the LIEMPTY darkroom is the room where the films taken by LICALLA, LILYRIC, LIMITED, and LIENTRAP are developed, printed, and (on request) enlarged by LIEMPTY-4. This darkroom is located in GERENDS's apartment, and he is pald 1,000 pesos per month for maintenance of the darkroom in recognition of the fact that one room in his living quarters has been turned into a darkroom, and his electric and water bills are substantially higher than they would normally be with- out a darkroom on the premises. GERENDE is building a house which he expects to occupy in February 1968. His plans for the house specifically include a LIEMPTY darkroom, and he will continue to be paid 1,000 pesos per month for this. To cover this payment in the new house, MEXI-137 has been written and will be forwarded to Headquarters shortly.

7. In answer to paragraph 5 of reference, it is hoped that the following summary will end the confusion:

a. LICALLA

(1) MENT-03

(2) Address under separate cover (Identity-1).

(3) LICALLA has been in operation at its present location since 1956, originally as a rented property. In September 1957 the building in which LICALLA is located (which consists of four units, collectively known as LIMUST) was purchased by the Station, with LIMOUSINE seting as a front.

(4) Actual cost is nothing, since property is owned by WOFIRM. The original purchase price for the four units was $40,000.00 with an additional $20,000.00 spent on renovation. Rent is paid for cover purposes at the annual rate of $1,248.00

(5) Cost of utilities is estimated at $552.00 annually.

(6) Since June 1957, LIEMPTY-9 (originally LIPSTICK-39) has operated the LICALLA base house. No other LIEMPTY agents are associated with LICALLA.

b. LIMITED

(1) MEX1-113

(2) Address under separate cover (Identity 2)

(3) LIMITED has been in its current location since December 1964, and it is a rented property. At its previous location, the LIMITED base had been in operation from 1953 until September 1964.

(4) Annual rent is $1,440.00

(5) Annual cost of utilities is estimated at $560.00.

(6) LIEMPTY-6 (originally LIPSTICK-14) has operated the LIMITED base house (in both locations) since 1955. No other LIEMPTY agents are associated with LIMITED.

c. LILYRIC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH                                                                SECRET                                    HMMA-33814

(1) MEXI-132
(2) Address under separate cover (Identity 3)
(3) LILYRIC has been in its present location since October 1965, when the new building was completed and ready for occupancy. It is a rented property, although for three years beginning 1 October 1966 the rect to to be turace to the Station es partial payment on a loan to LIMOUSINE. This loan was made to permit LIMOUSINE to purchase the property and construct the building in which LILYRIC is located. This property had previously belonged to WOFIRM and had contained the building in which LIMITED had been located. LILYRIC was previously (November 1956 to September 1966) located in a rented property (the same building, but not the same apartment, in which LIMITED is now located).
(4) Annual rent is $2,880.00.
(5) Estimated annual cost of utilities is $320.00.
(6) LIEMPTY-13 (originally LIJERSEY-2) has operated the LILYRIC base house (in both locations) since LILYRIC was established in 1956. He is supported by his wife (LIEMPTY-14), and his son (LIEMPTY-27). Another son, LIEMPTY-26, has also worked in LILYRIC. (Because LIEMPTY-13 has a full-time job, LIEMPTY-14 does most of the photographic work, assisted by LIEMPTY-27. LIEMPTY-13 does some of this work, and makes all meetings with GERENDE.)

d. LIEMPTY photo lab.

(1) MEXI-137
(2) Address (as of February 1968) under separate cover (Identity 4).
(3) Actually, no property as such is involved here. The Chief of Station authorized payment to GERENDE for the use of a room in his quarters as a darkroom in 1964, after GERENDE was moved out of a base house in which he lived (rent-free) and maintained the dark room.
(4) and (5) Annual cost is $960.00, including utilities.
(6) The occupant is GERENDE, although the photo processing is normally done by LIEMPTY-4.

8. It is hoped that the above will shed some light on the problem; the Station will be glad to answer any further questions Headquarters may have.

FOR/Willard C. CURTIS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:
HMMA-33814, 9 January 1968

IDENTITY SHEET

Identity (1) Benjamin Hill 15

Identity (2) Pedro Antonio de los Santos 104, apt. 17

Identity (3) Gelati 2 (as this is a corner house it is also known as Pedro Antonio de los Santos 100), Penthouse

Identity (4) Calle Bezares, Colonia Molino de Bezares, Mexico 10, D.F.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

Chief, Division

F. LIEMPTY St

Chief of Station, Maxico City

Admin/Finance - Station Accounting for December 1967.

ACTION REQUIRED: Paragraph 3.

REFERENCE:

A. T-8387

B. 1000 [1patch 0372

1. Attached as a copy of the subject accounting. The original was forwarded to the Office of Finance by reference A.

2. As requested in reference B, there are so FY-1986 unliquidated obligations. ??:: FY-1.67 unliquidated obligations are as follows:

SUPPORT $1,704.00

LIHALO 232.13

LIP 169.45

LILISP-X 2.933.30

la revert stands for salebinseront collections for the partial cancery th June 1967, Projecto LINESA and LIEMPTY 111 be crmitted in lise SEOUL.

3. It is rogarated that 21-68 adrices of subellotants for all Station'a activities by to05 * Available and that "Notifications of Project Approval Action" for Projecia LICONGA and LiivUK ba wanded to increase futon available in the field a3 follore:

LICOAGA - to 80,700 (103 4267ter, operational travel, rantai of saichouse, and atscellan3023 operational eкрема).

1,100 - ta $20,000 SSS MA-33449.

Attachment:

As Stated Abo

Distribution:

3 - Color, atぇ。

for/MARD C. CURTIS

HUNT-8583

12 January 1908


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# DISPATCH

(EASY KATION

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Western Hemsiphere Division

LIEMPTY Properties

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERMES

1. The presence of so many new desk personnel at headquarters - people who are unfamiliar with station history - means that we must turn to you with questions oftener than you might wish. Our present question concerns property involved in LIEMPTY. (We are submitting the project as received from the field, but do not understand the background very well.)

2. HMMA-11257 of 16 January 1959, a project renewal, said that "approximately one year ago the LICALLA base was purchased by KUBARK through LIMOUSINE", and we have not found any cables or dispatches which would show a change in that status. Does MEXI 03 LIMUST/LIMESA (see Real Property Report of August 1967) Include LICALLA? If so, and if we own LICALLA, why does it cost us $1800 a year for rent and utilities? (Up until the submission dated 1963 the project renewal used to say "LIMITED and LICALLA rents are returned to station by LIMOUSINE and credited to station miscellaneous receipts" but after that time this sentence was eliminated.)

(Continued..)

Distribution:

2-COS, Mexico City

|                            |
| -------------------------- |
| CROSS REFERENCE TO         |
| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMSER |
| HMMA-15952                 |
| S E C R                    |
| RI                         |
| CHRONO                     |


|               |                        |
| ------------- | ---------------------- |
| DATE          | 50-6-74/2              |
|               | 27 November 1967       |
|               | NUMBER                 |
| OFFICE        | ORIGINATING            |
| WH/1.         | N. Perkins             |
|               | st                     |
| OFFICE SYMBOL | COORDINATING           |
| DATE          | OFFICER'S NAME         |
|               |                        |
|               |                        |
| OFFICE SYMBOL | RELEASING              |
| C/WH/1        | DATE                   |
|               | OFFICER'S SIGNATURE    |
|               | ![officer's signature] |
|               | W.J. Nighting          |
|               | EXT.                   |
|               | DISPATCH               |

53 USC PREVIOUS EDITION.

MFG. 1-66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

CONTINUATION OF

SECRET

HMMW-15952

3. LIMITED is a different problem complicated by the fact that we are no longer sure what the name refers to. Originally we bought LIMITED and then sold it in January 1965 to LIMOUSINE who put up a new building on the lot and saved an apartment for our use. LIMOUSINE now owns the new building, but"MEXI 02, LIMITED Safehouse" is shown on the Real Property Report as "purchased" by WOFIRM in 1955 - should this not be corrected? A further complication is that ΗΜΜΑ -31164, GERENDE's January 1967 security review, speaks of LILYRIC in its present new location, inhabited by LIEMPTY/13, /14 and /27. Has the old LIMITED been re-christened LILYRIC because of its new inhabitants? When was it completed and are we still withholding rent from LIMOUSINE in settlement of his payment to us for the property. The REAL Property Report shows LILYRIC, MEXI 41, as having been leased in 1958 and costing $1030 to maintain ($856 rent, $44 reparis, and $130. utilities). It also shows MEXI 132 LIMEPTY, LIMOUSINE, LILYRIC as having been rented in October 1966 for $2880 a year Which is more than the 2,300 monthly rent for the flat in his new building which LIMOUSINE agrced that we would withhold for a period of two years after completion in partial settlement of his purchase of the LIMITED property. (ΗΜΜΑ 25310, 3 February 1965.)

4. What does the LIEMPTY darkroom consist of?

5. We are, as you can see, confused. Would you be kind enough to send us a brief summary of each of the four LIMEPTY properties.

a. name and property (MEXI) number

b. address (under separate cover)

c. date purchased, sold, rented, etc.

d. Basic cost (original cost if purchased, annual cost if rented).

e. cost of utilities

f. occupants

6. If rental money which we pay out for cover reasons is subsequently returned to us, should it be included in a project?

Theresa H. BACHARDY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

ONG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY
CONF:  RID COPY

TO MEXICO CITY
REF: IBMA 33050*

File LIEPTPY

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

ROUTING AND COMMENTS BY
Support

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO. BRANCH FILE RID
NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.
INFO:
FILE VB

CITE DIRECTOR

FOR ADMINISTRATIVE PURPOSES PLEASE HAVE THE CAR TRUCK UNDER HEIGHT
AND TO NOT INCLUDE IN LIMBRACE MISSION.
OF MORKS/26

*Plan transfer LEMTRAF truck to Project LIFERICS.

not sent. msq. carried by Langdon (P)
a 17 Oct.

WILLIAM V. BROS
C/WMD

RELEASING OFFICER

W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WM/1

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER.
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief/AND

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION: VISED FOR INDEXING

XX: INDEXING REQUIRED, CALY QUALIFIED DESK, CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIEMIRACE/LIMPTY - Transfer of Responsibility for the LIEMTRAP Vehicle

ACTION REQUIRED: Action Required: For your information

References: MEXICO CITY-2600, MEXICO CITY-2654

1. In July 1967, the responsibility for the LIEMPTY Project passed from the Station Support Section to the REITOP Dection, where it more reasombly belongs. However, the LIMMAP segment of the LEMPTY Project bas little to do with RMTOP activities and more rightly belongs in the Support Section. The Station, therefore, decided to transfer the LIEMTRAP vehicle, LIIMMY-10 and LE-TY-ll to the LIMITACE Project with LIEMEVICE-3 to be the Principal Agent. This decision was based on both security and operational efficiency consideretions. The formal change of commani was made on 10 August 1967 in a meeting between GERIDE, LEMPTY-10 and LIENERACE-3.

2. Certoin maabore of the LIMFACE surveillance team vere already knowledgeable of the existence of the LIELARAP vehicle and its opertin from pest operations and also from the old LIPSTICK Project. Conversely, LIEM TY-10 was knowledgeable of the existence of the surveillance team and knew some of the members of the tean (LEMBRACE-4 is the step-son of LIEMETY-10) Sy plecing the vehicle under the commend of TEBRACE-3; there was no break-down of compertnentation.

Distribution:

- C/- Chief/MED

continued...

16 Oct 67: Oral message sent back to station via Al Reynolds to the effect that we feel it impolitic to present a surveil ance poject in the neighborhood of $62,000, so please keep the truck under LIEMPTY for admin. purposes (and use it anyway you want.) C/WH/1 did not want to send a written message on this. NP

CPOSS REFERENCE TO: 50-6-74

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: IDMA - 33059

DATE: 12 September 1967

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HOS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-72/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRST 1024 - 33059

3. On the other hand, the LIENTAP vehicle was the most vulnerable part of the LIEMITY complex and a roll-up of the truck could lead to Reymont H. CESENDE, Principal Agent for LIEVPIY, and from BND to the sensitive LIESTY photo basehouces. Thus, by attaching the LIENTRAP vehicle to the LIENERACE σrveillance team we have actually improved the security of the LIEPTY Project somewhατ.

b. On the operational efficiency side, the bonefits which will accrue fros having the truck tied-in with the surveillance team for use in dispatching are obvious. In many areas of the city, such as around the market areas and third class hotels, an ostensibly empty truck attracts mich less attention than a person on foot or even a passenger car. The ability to dispatch a tergot and at the same time take photographs of the target and any companion's has its operational advantages. Hopefully, in some of the target-of-opportunity coverages now provided by the surveillance team, it will be possible to take photographs of the person with whom the PJSTEAL officer mocto. Certainly, if the team takes an unidentified subject home after a target-of-opportunity discovery, by allowing the teas lendor to place the photo truck on the home we will speed-up the receipt of photographe.

5. LIEMBRACE-3 was told that LIEMPTY-10 and 11 have certain accomodation addresses which they must check on a routine basis and that any assistance given the LIEMBRACE team should not interfere with this task. It was stressed to LIEMBRACE-3 that under no circumstances scull team mabere transport or otherviso assist in the servicing of the accomodation addresses. LLEMBRACE-3 vas briefed on the normal activity of the LIENTRAP truck in providing photographic coverage of addresses in which the Station has an interest. As for handling the use of the truck, the following caveats were laid upon LIEMMTACE-3:

a. LIEMERACE-3 should discuss the normal activities of LIENTRAP only with LIEMBRACE-1, the assistant team leader.

b. The truck is not to be used in active mobile surveillance without the approval of the Station.

c. The truck will be used for dispatching purposes only in those areas in which passenger vehicle and/or foot dispatching ars not feasibla.

d. LIEMPTY-10 and LIEMPTY-11 will not be used for active surveillance nor vill they be introduced to team members who do not presently know their true identities.

6. Operationally, the efficacy of the use of the LIENTTAP truck in coordination with the LIEMBRACE team has been proven in the coverage and surveillance of a letter drop on Mexico City. Please sed references for detaila of this operation, which could not have hean accomplished in a secure manner without the truck assisting the team. No problems have been noted as a result of the change in comannd structure for the LIENTRAP truck.

7. Financially, one possiblo problem is evident in the nev arrangement.. Headquarters has limited the costs of the LIEMBRACE Project to US$ 50,000 per year and it will not be possible for the Project to remain within this figure with the LIENTRAP vehicle and personnel included the rein. The Station does not see this as a great problem because the Operational Program includes the cost of these assets in the LIEMPTY Project and the transfer will merely mean a decrease in LIEMPTY equal to the increase in LIEMBRACE.

for/Willard C. CURTIS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

14-00000

LinFy Support

14. As apssroved by Headquarterm, the meant LIENFRAP vehicle will be replaced by a new Ford "Econolino" truck in' the near future. Before the old LIUHTRAP vehicle is sold, it will be used to cover residences of the FUSPEAL/NYXIS opposition who are living in Maxico City.

ΗΜΜΑ-32068
23 May 67

"The LIENTRAP vehicle has been replaced." ΗΜΜΑ 33455, 8 Nov 57, Project Renewal


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIMOUSINE/LIEM-TY/LILYRIC - Occupants of Building at Gelati #2

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: For Your Information

References: A. HMMW-15157, 18 January 1967

B. HMMA-31303, 7 February 1967

1. Station wishes to correct somewhat the information provided in Reference B. Because of changing of plans and an error on Raymond H. GERENDE's part, the number of floors of the building located at Gelati #2 was given incorrectly in Reference B. The plans forwarded as attachments to Reference B were correct. The description in the dispatch should be corrected to show a ground-floor, three floors with two apartments each and a penthouse.

2. The occupants of the building, all of whom were checked and approved by the Station before leasing are:

Ground Floor Business - A beauty salon is located on this floor which is operated by Nelly Infante de Garcia. Her lease was signed on 1 December 1966 and is valid until 31 May 1969. She pays $152.00 US per month rent.

Second Floor - Apartment 1 - Dr. Hector MUNOZ Franco. His lease was signed on 1 September 1966 and is valid until 31 August 1967. He pays $128.00 US per month rent.

Apartment 2 - Alicia MADRIGAL Osorio rented this apartment on 1 November 1966 and she plans to vacate at the end of April 1967. She pays $04.00 US per month.

continued...

Distribution:

3- Chief/WHD

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-31837

DATE: 13 April 1967

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-714/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

Third Floor - Apartment 3 - This apartment is rented by the Mghth Electoral District for use as an office. The contract was signed on 1 February 1967 and is valid until 31 July 1960. The rent paid on this apartment is $112.00 US per month.

Apartment 4 - Edmundo contract was signed on 1 December 1966 and is valid until 30 November 1966 with a rent of $20.00 US per month.

Fourth Floor - Apartment 5 - Wilfredo and Edith ASCHENBRENNER. Under the terms of their lease, which was signed on 1 October 1966 and is valid until 30 September 1967, they pay $96.00 US per month rent.

Apartment 6 - This apartment is rented by Richard P. MAPES who pays $72.00 US per month. His contract was signed on 1 October 1966 and is valid until 30 September 1967.

Penthouse - The penthouse is leased by Andres GOYENECHEA C. who pays $240.00 US per month rent. His contract was signed on 1 September 1966 and is valid until 30 August 1967.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

ORIO: S.L.Yaxley/ly
UNIT: WII/Logistics
DATE: 7 April 1967

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINA12000
POR: 53
CONF: WH 8

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 15
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| 1   | 6   |
| 2   | 7   |
| 3   | 8   |
| 4   | 9   |
| 5   | 19  |

RID COPY

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE ID
NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO. 50-6-74/1
FILE: LOGS 4

TO: SECRET

MEXICO CITY.
LIEMPTY

REF: MEXICO CITY 0996 (IN-38335)*

PURCHASE OF MV-2823 FOR $3440.91 AUTHORIZED.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH/COMMENT: Station requested approval to increase amount of Ford Econoline from $3200.00 to $3440.91.

![signature]

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/NHD

![signature]

![signature]

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

R. L. KING
C/WH/LOG

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

ΙΝΟΓΧΙ ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE F TOTAL COPIES 14
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐
SECRET
DESTROY ☐ SIG.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
ACTION WA8 ADVANCE COPY
INFO FILE VR, MAS/BG-2 ☐ RID COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED

SECRET 060035Z CITE MEXICO CITY 0996 6 APR 67138335
DIRECTOR
REF A DIRECTOR 85210
B DIRECTOR 46928

REQUEST AUTHORIZED AMOUNT FOR MV-2823 BE INCREASED FROM $3200.00 TO $3448.91 WHICHNEW PRICE OF FORD ECONOLINE NOW GOING INTO PRODUCTION AFTER 6 MONTHS LAPSE. NEW PRICE INCLUDES MANDATORY SAFETY EQUIPMENT INCLUDING FIRE EXTINGUISHER, SEAT BELTS AND WINDSHIELD WASHER NOT PREVIOUSLY REQUIRED BY MEXICAN LAW AND RADIO WHICH NECESSARY TO COVER TRANSMITTING EQUIPMENT TO BE INSTALLED BY WOFACT.
SECRET
ST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIEMPTY/Status of LIEMPTY-5

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: For Your Information

Reference : HMMM-15270, 23 February 1967

1. LIEMPTY-5 is the wife of LIEMPTY-4, the operator of the photography base used in processing the pictorial tako received from the various units within the LIEGTI complex. As such, she sometimes assiste LIFMPTY-4 in the photo processing work. She is carried as a part-time basshousekeeper because cho must remain at home as added security when photographs are being processed and/or being held until the scheduled meeting between LIFMPTY- and Raymond H. GERENDE takes place and the photographs passed for omvard transmittal to the Station.

2. The Station regrets that LIEMPTY-5 was not included in the last Project Renoval Request, but the oversight probably resulted because LIEMPTY-5 does not receive a salary at the present time. The Station wishes to keep her present Memorantun of Oral Commitments, which calls for an hourly salary, in effect in case her services as a salaried asset are needed in the future.

for/Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
3 - Chiot/WHD


> [Figure: a signature and some handwriting on the right side of the page]

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: IMMA-31515

DATE: 6 March 1967

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-150615


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

ORIG:
A. C. Kumra/sty FILE RID
UNIT: W/Logistics
EXT: 6282
DATE: 26 October 66
DISSEM BY: 24
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: W/H-6

SECRET

MEXICO CITY
LOGS LIEMPTY
REF: A. MEXICO CITY 8920 (IN-22107)*
B. DIRECTOR 45720**
C. MEXICO CITY 8962 (IN-25013) ***

MV-2823 APPLIES. COST NOT TO EXCEED $3200.

END OF MESSAGE

*WII/COMMENT: *Requested authority replace MV-2279 with panel truck at maximum cost of $3200.
**Approved disposal of MV-2279 and authorized replacement if project funds available.
***Provide MV number. Approximately $10,000 available.

WILLIAM V. BROE
WII/1 C. Bustos (telecon).
R. L. KING
C/WHD
C/WII/LOG

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

INDEXI YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY S:6:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
TOTAL COPIES 15

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

BI 7
ACTION WH 8
INFO FILE VR LOGS 4
RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED

SECRET 251500Z CITE MEXICO CITY 8962

DIRECTOR

REF: DIRECTOR 45120

PLEASE PROVIDE MY NUMBER FOR NEW TRUCK.

APPROXIMATELY TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS AVAILABLE.

SECRET

BT

NNNN

250ct 66 25013

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

R. L. King/sly FILE RID
WH/Logistics
6252 NO INDEX
21 October 66 FILE IN CS FILE NO.
DISSEM BY 53 PER

MESSAGE FORN
TOTAL COPIES: 16

SECRET

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8 RID. COPY INFO: VA .FILE LOGS 4, MPS/ESG L

SECRET 21 20 42Z CITE DIRECTOR 45720

TO MEXICO CITY
REF: MEXICO CITY 8920 (IN-22107)

APPROVAL GRANTED SELL MV--2279, CAN REPLACE IMMEDIATELY
ONLY IF CURRENT PROJECT FUNDS CAN ABSORB COST, WHICH HDQS.
DOUBTS. OTHERWISE MUST INCLUDE COST IN NEXT PROJ APPROVAL
AND PURCHASE AFTER 1 DECEMBER. ALSO ASSUME THAT FY-67 PROGRAMNED
AMOUNT OF $45,000 CAN ABSORB COST OF NEW TRUCK. SEE IMMS-4969.
PLEASCOMPLY WITH BOOK DISPATCH 5373, DATED 7 MARCH 1966.

& END OF MESSAGE

*WH/COMMENT: Requested disposal and replacement of MV-2279.

WH/1, C. Bustos (telecon)
WH/B&F, Mr. Connor (in draft)

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/HD
R. L. KING
C/WH/LOG

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE AID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIC.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DISSEM BY 35
ACTION
RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
INFO
SECRET 210017Z CITE MEXICO CITY 8920
DIRECTOR

1. REQUEST AUTHORITY TO REPLACE MV-2279 LIEMPTY
   IVA SLOT NUMBER 2 WITH FORD ECONOLINE PANEL TRUCK. 21 Oct 66 22107
   MAXIMUM COST $3200.00.

2. MV-2279 PURCHASED 1959. ODOMETER READING 4900
   MILES. EXCESSIVE OIL USE INDICATES NEED FOR MAJOR OVERHAUL
   OR REPLACEMENT OF ENGINE. TRUCK SINCE USED AGAINST MANY
   TARGETS. CONTINUED USE HAZARDOUS FROM SECURITY STANDPOINT.
   SECRET
   BT

SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

6 September 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CCS

FROM : WH Division

SUBJECT : Project Funding Plan/Project
LIEMPTY (FI)

A. Identification of Activity

1. Project cryptonym: LIEMPTY

2. Approved for: 1 December 1965 - 30 November 1966:
   $41,500
   FY 1966 - $25,520
   FY 1967 - $15,980

3. Proposed successive fiscal year budget: Same

4. Brief statement of project aims, character and structure:

The purpose of this project is to provide support for mobile (1 truck) and stationary (3 base houses ) photographic surveillance; one base house is also used as a dispatching base for a physical surveillance team. This project covers one Mexican Contract Agent who serves as Principal Agent for the eight Mexican field agents under the Project.

B. Funding History

1. The Contract Agent receives his salary directly from the Mexico City Station Case Officer ($540/ month). He also receives money from the Station which he uses to pay the field agents their salaries (total of $1.700/month) and operational expenses. Receipts are received.

2. Funds have always been handled in this manner.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FROM:
*Discom Byxl*
ACTION:
LOGS-4 ☐ RID COPY
INFO:
FILE: VR, WH-8, SOD-6, WH/C-8
SECRET 161803Z CITE MEXICO CITY 7641 IN 39026
LOGISTICS INFO DIRECTOR
REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 02750
JEECHO
PLEASE SHIP 240 ROLLS OF STOCK NUMBER 6750-292-9666
FILM TRI-X 35MM, 36 EXP ROLLS ON REF IURADIAL FLIGHT.
NEEDED FOR UNEXPECTED HIGH DEMAND FOR LIEMPIY PROJECT.
CITE REQUISITION NUMBER 539-73 CS FAN 6:35-2992.
SECRET

SECRET

![Signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WHI/CR

INFO: FILE, VA WH8/CL53 254

SECRET 282130Z

PRIORITY WAVE INFO DIR CITE MEXI 6423 28 Feb 64419

REF WAVE 9343 (IN63107)*

RESERVATIONS CONFIRMED AT GENEVE. ADVISE IF NECESSARY TO MEET.

SECRET

CFN

SDD 9343 GENEVE

BT

SECRET

ETA IMAR

![illegible handwritten text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Memoranda of Oral Commitments

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

XX NO ACTION REQUIRED

Forwarded herewith are three authentic copies of Subject memoranda covering the following agents used within Project LIEMPTY and reflecting recent salary adjustments:

MXC of LIEMPTY-6 201-082444

" LIEMPTY-9 201-136454

" LIEMPTY-10 201-121190

Dice of LIEMPTY-11 201-119960

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Willard C. CURTIS

Distributions:

3- Chief WH Division

Atts herewith

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

P-2464

P-2436

P-2453

P24-73

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:

HMMA-28138

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

50-6-74/0

DATE: 25 January 1966

HQS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-74/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, WH Division

INFO

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
Memoranda of Oral Commitments

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

XX

OCESSING ACTION
WARNED FOR INDELING
NOUADEXING REQUIRED
CMT QUALIFIED CESA
CAN AIVE INCERING
CFIL

Forwarded herewith are three copies of subject memoranda covering the following agents used within Project LIEMPTY and roflecting recent salary adjustments:

*   LIEMPTY-9 201-136454
*   LIEMPTY-11 201-119960
*   LIEMPTY-14 201-167567

for Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:

![image of attachment] feled is wedential 201 julio

CROSS REFERENCE TO

ES COPY

DISPATCH SYM AND NUMBER
HMMA-26232

DATE
50-6-74/2
1 June 1965

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HOS FILE NUMBER
50-6-74/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

ORIG: C. Bostos - Videla
UNIT: WH/1
EXT: 4507
DATE: 10 March 65

MESSAGE FORM 15

ROUTING

SECRET
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-5762

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH 8 INFO OL 4, BPA, VR, FILE

TO: MEXI
INFO:
CITE DIR: 91407
LIEMPTY LIMOUSINE
REFY: MEXI 2732 (IN 19326)*
APPROVAL GRANTED DELAY INITIAL PAYMENT.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Limousine wishes delay initial payment for limitdd property for 90 days.

WH/Log J. Wisniewski
TELCCORD OL/RECD Bill Cabanic, COL
TOCOORD DC/LOG, GEORGE MELLON

Raford W. Herbert
AC/WIHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

ORIG. Joseph F. McMahon
UNIT. WH/Logistics
EXT 7282
DATE: 4 December 1961
TO MEXICO CITY
FROM DIRECTOR
CONF. WH 8 INFO OL 4, VR, Bustos

TO MEXI
REF: A. DIR 66008
B. MEXI 1798 (IN 34775)*

REQUEST FOR $500 INCREASE FOR MV 2676 PER REF B APPROVED.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH/COMMENT: Requested increase from $3000 to $3500.

![signature of RAFORD W. HERBERT]
RAFORD W. HERBERT
AC/NH DIVISION

C/WH/1 by Special
Telecon:
OL/PD, Mr. Gauvreau

SECRET

![signature of JOSEPH T. MCMAHON]
JOSEPH T. MCMAHON
CHIEF, WH LOGISTICS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

CG: John T. Marting
UNIT: WII/Logistics
EXT: 7282
DATE: 23 November 1964
MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
ROUTING
TO : MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF. WHP INFO OL 4 LR FILE Buses
23 Nov 61 19 452
SIG CEN
TO MEXI
INFO
CITE DIR 66003
REF MEXI 1667 (IN26899)*
DISPOSAL OF MV 2284 AUTHORIZED AND LOCAL PROCUREMENT
REPLACEMENT VEHICLE COST NOT TO EXCEED $3000 APPROVED. MV2676
APPLIES. DISPATCH FOLLOWS.
END OF MESSAGE
*WH/COMMENT: Request authority dispose of MV2284 and replace with new compact cost not to exceed $3000;

DESMOND FITZGERALD
CHIEF, WII DIVISION
RELEASING OFFICER
Telecon:
OL/TD/VSB, Maj. Fre
OL/PD. Mr. Gauvreau
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
JOSEPI F. MCMAHON
CHTEF; WII LOGISTICS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 13

32 SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO

FROM MEXICO aty

ACTION OL4

INFO VR. FILE WH 7

SECRET 1923002 20 Nov EIN26899

DIA CITE MEXI 1667(CADDY ACTING)

JBECAU

1. REQUEST AUTHORIZATION DISPOSE MV 2284 WITH 75,000 MILES. COST NEEDED REPAIRS AND OVERHAUL EXCEED 30 PERCENT LOCAL MARKET VALUE.

2. WISH REPLACE WITH NEW COMPACT 8 CYLINDER FORD WITH STANDARD COPMENT FOR USE OLIVER C. SCANTLING. DUE SCANTLING BUSINESS CONNECTIONS WITH LOCAL FORD CAN GET 15 PERCENT DISCOUNT AND 0000 TRADE IN ALLCHANCE MV 2084 WHICH ALSO FORD. COST KOT TO EXCEED $3,000. DUE ALTITUDE, TRAFFIC CONDITIONS, NATURE SCARTLING ASEMENTS, & CYLINDER VEHICLE REEDED.

3. SUFFICIENT FY 1965 AVAILABLE PROJECT LILOFTY THIS

FSE

SEP

CUN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : OL 4, RF, VR

SECRET

ROUTING

SECRET 240224Z

DIR CITE MEXI 6642

LIEMPTY

24 OCT 63 IN 46326

1. REQ AUTHORITY DISPOSE MV 2286 CHEVROLET 1958. MILAGE 65,000. NEEDS EXTENSIVE REPAIR DUE AGE AND USE.

2. REQUEST AUTHORITY REPLACE WITH LOCAL PURCHASE RANBLER CLASSIC 4 DOOR AT $US 3,050. STANDARD FACTORY INSTALLED EQUIPMENT INCLUDES RADIO, WHITE WALL TIRES, CIGARETTE LIGHTER, CLOCK.

3. ABOVE ASSIGNED 'RAYMOND H. CERENDE. FUNDS AVAILABLE PROJECT LIEMFTY THIS PURCHASE.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![CICUP I Pisteded ham demongrading and desclassification.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, WH Division

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING
| PRO POSED | ACTION                                              | ACCOMPLISHED |
| --------- | --------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| X         | MARKED FOR INDEXING                                 |              |
|           | NO INDEXING REQUIRED                                |              |
|           | ONLY QUALIFIED HEADQUARTERS DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING |              |
|           | ABSTRACT                                            |              |
|           | MICROFILM                                           |              |

FROM:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:
Memoranda of Oral Agreement

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

Action Required: For your information

Forwarded herewith are three copies of Subject memoranda covering the following agents employed under Project LIEMPTY and reflecting recent salary adjustments:

LIEMPTY - 4 201-117967

LIEMPTY - 6 201-082444

LIEMPTY - 8 201-121189

LIEMPTY - 9 201-136454

LIEMPTY - 10 201-121190

LIEMPTY - 11 201-119960

LIEMPTY - 14 201-167567

Cover and KUBARK Job assignments of above agents remain as previously reported.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]
Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments:
As stated above

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Distribution:
3 - WH w/3 cpy ea att.

2 - Files

Encl - 7

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

50-6-74/2

DATE TYPED: 11 Jan 1963

DATE DISPATCHED: 15 Jan 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-20491

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-74/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

DISPATCH

F-1667, 3 1961

Project LEMON

Cancelled my authority

H-1667, 15 December 1960

Project LEMON data will be made available to recipient at that

Headquarters cancelled by authority

9 February 1961

Distribution:

3 -

3 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-16426

TO:

Chief, WH Division

FROM:

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:

LIEMPTY/Memoranda of Oral Commitments

ACTION REQUIRED:

None, for Hqs. info only

DATE:

8 February 1961

Attached for Headquarters files are copies of recently revised Memoranda of Oral Commitments on several LIEMPTY agents:

LIEMPTY-4 201-117967

LIEMPTY-6 201- $201-32444$
(No Station record of 201 number)

LIEMPTY-8 201-121189

LIEMPTY-9 201-136454

LIEMPTY-11 201-119960

LIEMPTY-13 201-119961

LIEMPTY-14 201-167567

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Willard C. Curtis

3 February 1961

Distribution:

3 - WHD w/3 cys ea of 7 atts

2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH

Field Procurement of MV-2320 - Project LIEMPTY

ERS-1241, dated 5 Feb. 1960

1. Reference dispatch gives authorization to procure one 2-k door, used sedan for Project LIEMPTY, MV-2320. Authorization was valid until 3 May 1960.

2. Headquarters has no record of procurement of this vehicle. If this sedan has been purchased please comply with paragraph 2 of reference and return signed Declaration of Trust.

3. If the purchase has not been made at this date please advise Headquarters if the Station still intends to secure the sedan and give Justification for an extension of authority to purchase.

END OF DISPATCH

3 - Mexi

Distribution:

![distribution list]

DATE TYPED: 9 Dec. 1960

DATE DISPATCHED: 9 Dec. 1960

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMS-1667

OFFICE: WH/LOG

OFFICER: P. G. PIKE

nd: 4591

OFFICE SYMBOL: WH/3

Tele coord: CL/SD/VS

DATE: 9 Dec. 60

OFFICERS: with J. Herman

DATE: A/SUPPORT

OFFICER: Paul E. Arneson

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

OPERATIONAL AUTHORIZATION

TO: FINANCE DIVISION

THROUGH: PROJECTO BRANCH, FI/OIS; BUGET AND FISCAL BRANCH, FI/SG

SUBJECT: LIBERTY ; VII/Mexico

SECTION 1. OUT GADOWN OF REQUESTED FUNDS (to be completed from date in project outline)

THE TOTAL FUNDS BEING REQUESTED FOR ABOVE PROJECT, AMOUNTING TO $ ARE PRONEN DOON AS FOLLUNSI

| BREAKDOWN AND TOTAL    | FISCAL YEAR |          |
| ---------------------- | ----------- | -------- |
|                        | 1961        | 1962     |
| COMPENSATION           | $ 23,000    | $ 15,000 |
| TRAVEL                 |             |          |
| OPERATIONAL EXPENSES   | 1,500       | 1,000    |
| EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES | 5,500       | 4,100    |
| OTHER                  | 1,500       | 1,000    |
| TOTALS                 | $ 31,900    | $ 21,100 |

SECTION 2. ADMINISTRATIVE (To be completed by project officer)

INDICATE ANY DETAILS THAT WILL ASSIST FINANCE DIVISION IN MARING ADVANCES, DISAURSEMENTS AND ACCOUNTINGS

A. TYPE OF PROJECT (Check one)

REGULAR SUBSIDY

D. METHOD BY WHICH PAYMENTS ARE TO BE MADE

C. FUNDS WILL BE ACCOUNTED FOR DY (Check one)

1. REGULAR FINANCIAL ACCOUNTINGS (FHD 30-1500-1 or FHR 30-1500-1)

2. RECEIPTS ONLY (R 230-200)

OTHER (Explain):

SECTION 3. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS (To be completed by operating division budget officer)

1 CERTIFY THAT, TO MEET THE ESTIMATED ONLIGATIONS OUTLINED IN SECTION 1:

A. FUNDS ARE AVAILABLE IN THE DIVISION'S BUD FOR THE FY 1961

A. FUNDS HAVE BEEN PROGRAMMED FOR THE FY 1961

SIGNATURE OF OPERATING DIVISION BUDGET OFFICER DATE

SECTION 4. AUTHORIZATION (To be completed by Projects Branch, FI/OPS)

THE PROJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED FROM 1 Dec 1960 TO 30 Nov 1961 IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $53,000 AS BROKEN DOWN IN SECTION 1.

SIGNATURE FOR PROJECTS BRANCH, F1/OPS DATE

SECTION 5. ADDITIONAL CRYPTONYMS. PSEUDONYMS. ETC.

Raymond O. GERENDE

Oliver G. SCARTLING

Louisa G. MACRILO

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF DIVISION CHIEF OR DESIGNEE DATE

C.L.Zehrang 2555

FORM

4-53 680 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(3)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

013
DATE: 22 SEP 50
TO: DIRECTOR
FROM: MEXICO CITY
ACTION: TSD 4
INFO : WH 4, OL 3, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
SEP 23 02102 60

ROUTINE
IN 16961

DIR CITE MEXI 6375

6375

AQUATIC

1. POUCH SOONEST TWO ENLARGER BULBS FOR MODEL 57100

EXACT 35 ANDREAS VEIGEL STUTTGARD-BAD CANNSTATT. MACHINE WILL
TAKE PHILIPS 125 V 120 W P28 TYP 5257 C/05 SOCKEL UNTEN WITH
SOCKET MARKING A C32. NONE AVAILABLE MEXI.

2. FOR LIEMPTY SASE WHICH PROCESSES ALL LIMMERICK OP PHOTOS.
   ADDRESS CUINTON N. OUSLER FOR PROPER DELIVERY.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET

# FI OPERATIONAL AUTHORIZATION

TO: FINANCE DIVISION

THROUGH: FI/PLANS/PROJECTS BRANCH, FI/ADMIN/BF

SUBJECT: APPROVAL OF PROJECT

SECTION 1. TO BE COMPLETED BY PROJECTS BRANCH

THE ABOVE PROJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED FROM TO IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF
$ 4910 AS BROKEN DOWN BELOW.

SECTION 2. TO BE COMPLETED BY CASE OFFICER

BREAKDOWN OF REQUESTED TOTAL

|                      | FISCAL YEAR | FISCAL YEAR |
| -------------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| COMPENSATION         | $ 32600     | $ 26120     |
| ALLOWANCES           | 1600        | 920         |
| TRAVEL               | 2273        | 1633        |
| OPERATIONAL EXPENSES | 1000        | 1752        |
| OTHER                | 7000        | 2600        |
| TOTAL                | $ 44473     | $ 36025     |

TYPE OF PROJECT (Check one) REGULAR

ACCOUNTING DETAILS

| SUBSIDY | PROPRIETARY |
| ------- | ----------- |

METHOD BY WHICH PAYMENTS ARE TO BE MADE

REGULAR FINANCIAL ACCOUNTINGS (AFR 30-10)

FUNDS TO BE ACCOUNTED FOR BY:

RECEIPTS ONLY (CPR 9.4)

OTHER (Explain):

SECTION 3. TO BE COMPLETED BY DIVISION BUDGET OFFICER

I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE DIVISION BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 196 CONTAINS SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO MEET THE OBLIGATIONS OUTLINED ABOVE.

SECTION 4. OTHER APPROVALS

FINANCE DIVISION MUST HAVE, IN ADDITION TO FI PROJECT APPROVAL, SPECIFIC WRITTEN APPROVAL ON CERTAIN TYPES OF EXPENDITURES BEFORE FUNDS CAN BE ADVANCED. INDICATE BELOW ANY APPROVALS IN THIS CATEGORY THAT HAVE BEEN SECURED.

PURCHASE OF AUTOMOBILE
APPROVAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN WHEN REQUIRED

PURCHASE OF MAJOR ITEMS OF EQUIPMENT
OTHER (Explain):

RENTALS IN EXCESS OF THAT PERMITTED BY

SECTION 5. ADDITIONAL CRYPTONYMS, PSEUDONYMS, ETC.

[Figure: A handwritten text]

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER

EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF DIVISION CHIEF OR DESIGNEE DATE

FORM NO. 680 REPLACES FORM 59-104
1 JUN 55 WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

SECRET

(3)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

9 December 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR: FI - Projects Branch

SUBJECT : Purchase of one Automobile and Increase of
LIBERTY TVA by One

1. According to the Project Renewal Request for LIBERTY from the Mexico City Station, they plan to increase the LIBERTY surveillance team during the coming year by two agents. To maintain the efficiency of an enlarged team, they will require one additional automobile.

2. It is requested that the TVA for LIBERTY be increased by one automobile and that the Station be authorized to purchase locally this automobile for use under the LIBERTY Project.

S.C. King
C/WED

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Addressee
1 - Subject
1 - Chrono

![signature]

:LIBERTY/Support


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

FI OPERATIONAL AUTHORIZATION

TO: FINANCE DIVISION

THROUGH: FI/PLANS/PROJECTS BRANCH, FI/ADMIN/BF

SUBJECT: LIBUTY A:V:11/Mexico

SECTION 1. TO BE COMPLETED BY PROJECTS BRANCH

THE ABOVE PROJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED FROM 1 October 1959 TO 30 November 1959 IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $95,300.00 AS BROKEN DOWN BELOW.

FI/PLANS/PROJECTS BRANCH

TO BE COMPLETED BY CASE OFFICER

SECTION 2.

BREAKDOWN OF REQUESTED TOTAL

|                      | FISCAL YEAR 1959 | FISCAL YEAR 1960 |
| -------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| COMPENSATION         | $37,710.00       | $33,320.00       |
| ALLOWANCES           | $  1,710.00      | $  1,920.00      |
| TRAVEL               | $  4,750.00      | $  1,850.00      |
| OPERATIONAL EXPENSES | $ 21,500.00      | $  3,710.00      |
| OTHER:               | $  7,500.00      | $  9,000.00      |
| TOTAL                | $ 87,520.00      | $ 49,800.00      |

TYPE OF PROJECT (Check one) REGULAR SUBSIDY PROPRIETARY

METHOD BY WHICH PAYMENTS ARE TO BE MADE

FUNDS TO BE ACCOUNTED FOR BY: REGULAR FINANCIAL ACCOUNTINGS (APR 30-10)

DECEIPTS ONLY (CPR 9.4)

OTHER (Explain):

SECTION 3. TO BE COMPLETED BY DIVISION BUDGET OFFICER

I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE DIVISION BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR CONTAINS SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO MEET THE OBLIGATIONS OUTLINED ABOVE.

DIVISION BUDGET OFFICER

DATE

SECTION 4. OTHER APPROVALS

FINANCE DIVISION MUST HAVE, IN ADDITION TO FI PROJECT APPROVAL, SPECIFIC WRITTEN APPROVAL ON CERTAIN TYPES OF EXPENDITURES BEFORE FUNDS CAN BE ADVANCED. INDICATE BELOW ANY APPROVALS IN THIS CATEGORY THAT HAVE BEEN SECURED:

PURCHASE OF AUTOMOBILE APPROVAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN WHEN REQUIRED

PURCHASE OF MAJOR ITEMS OF EQUIPMENT OTHER (Explain):

RENTALS IN EXCESS OF THAT PERMITTED BY REGULATION

SECTION 5. ADDITIONAL CRYPTONYMS, PSEUDONYMS, ETC.

Raymond H. Morenzie (ne);

Oliver G. Scantling (pa;

LIBUTY-3,-4,-5,-6,-7,-8,-9,-10,-11,-12,-13,-14,-15,-16,-17

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF DIVISION CHIEF OR DESIGNEE DATE

John A. Brady 2555

FORM NO. 680 REPLACES FORM 53-104

1 JUN 55 WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# SECRET
(When Filled In)
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUPPORT ANNEX - TABLE OF VEHICULAR ALLOWANCE

1. PROJECT

2. SENIOR STAFF

3. TYPE OF ACTION (Check one)

4. AREA

A. DIVISION
W4ID

A. NEW TVA

B. BRANCH


D. AMENDMENT OF EXISTING TVA

C. DESK

5. 
| ITEM                  | TYPE | REQUESTED ACTION | TOTAL ON HAND | TOTAL PRESENT TVA | TOTAL PROPOSED TVA |
| --------------------- | ---- | ---------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | ------------------ |
| A. SEDAN              | 201  | /                | 4/            | 5                 |                    |
| B. STATION WAGON      |      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| C. OTHER (List below) |      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (1)                   |      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (2)                   |      |                  |               | 1                 | 1                  |
| (3)                   |      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (4)                   |      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (5)                   |      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| D. TOTALS             |      |                  | -             | -                 | 6                  |

6. REVIEWED BY

7. APPROVAL REQUESTED HY

SIGNATURE LOGISTICS OFFICER

DIVISION

DATE

SIGNATURE CHIEF, ADMIN.

DIVISION

DATE

8. APPROVED

9. AUTHORIZED

BY DIRECTION OF DDP

DATE

BY DIRECTION OF DD/S

DATE

FORM NO. 1116 TEST
1 NOV 58

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

(20-36)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

316 RLF/SW/10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE : 31 JUL 59

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WM 5

INFO : DO/S, SSA, OL 3, S/C 2

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

AUG 1 2057Z 59

ROUTINE

IN 48642

CITE: MEXI 4204

TO DIR INFO

RE HMMS 761

HMMS 737

REQUEST MV AUTHORITY FOR LOCAL PURCHASE NOT EXCEED $3500 OF FOURTH LIEMPTY
CAR AUTHORIZED BY REF 8. WILL BE USED BY LIJERSEY SURVEILLANCE TEAM.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE is prohibited.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

ORIG: JAMES S. BURWELL
UNIT: WE LOGISTICS
EXT: 4591
DATE: 3 APRIL 1959

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WN 5
INFO: DO/S, SSA, OL 3, S/C 2

```
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
DEFERRED APR 3 19 43:59
ROUTINE REC'D CABLE SECT.
INITIALS
PRIORITY
INITIALS
OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE
OUT89600
CITE DIP 20062
```

TO MEXI INFO

RE: A. MEXI 3593 (IN 37255)
B. MEXI 3630 (IN 39968)*

1. REF A APPROVED. COST NOT TO EXCEED $3500. MV 2283 APPLIES.

2. AUTHORITY GRANTED REPLACE REF B VEHICLES NOT TO EXCEED $3000 EACH.
   MV 2284 MV 2285 AND MV 2286 APPLY.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COGENT: REQUESTED AUTHORITY REPLACE MV'S 2041, 2147 AND 2148.

PAUL E. ARNSON
C WH SUPPORT
RELEASING OFFICER

Tele Coord
OL/SD: S. DePyssler

C WH BR III
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

JAMES S. BURWELL
AUTHENTICATING OFFICE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

470/DMCL/CG/S২৬
DATE 2 APR 59

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO DIRECTOR

FROM MEXICO CITY:

ACTION WH 5

INFO 'DD/S, SSA, OL 3, S/C 2

|     | ROUTING |
| --- | ------- |
| 1   | 4       |
| 2   | 5       |
| 3   | 6       |

APR 3 03382 59

ROUTINE

IN 39968

TO DIR INFO CITE MEXI 3630

LIEMPTY

RE: Λ. ΗΜΜΑ 11257

Β. ΗΜΜΑ 11368

C. HAMS 637 PARA 4

1. REQUEST CABLE AUTHORITY REPLACE MV'S 2041, 2147 AND 2148 FOR SECURITY REA-
   SONS IMPLIED REFS A AND B.

2. HQS AWARE EFFORTS INCREASE SECURITY AND COMPARTMENTATION SUPPORT PER-
   SONNEL AND EQUIPMENT. ABOVE 1952 MODEL VEHCILES HAVE BEEN USED ON MANY INVESTI-
   GATIONS BY SEVERAL DIFFERENT AGENTS. CONSIDER IMPERATIVE INCREASE LIEMPTY SECURITY
   BY INMEDIATE REPLACEMENT.

END OF MESSAGE

S-E-C-R-E-T-

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

ORIG : R. M. HERMAN
UNIT : SUPPLY
EXT : 2550
DATE : 17 FEBRUARY 1959
TO : MEXICO CITY
FROM : DIRECTOR
CONF : CL 3
INFO : WH 4, CO/S, SSA, S/C-2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING

FEB 17 21 47:59
REC'D CABLE SECT.

DEFERRED PRIORITY INITIALS
[X] ROUTINE OPERATIONAL INITIALS
IMMEDIATE

OUT73536

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 13232
LIEMPTY/JBECHO

APPROVE MEXI 3318(IN 20248) FOR PANEL TRUCK. MV 2279 APPLIES

END OF MESSAGE

C/S Comments: Requested replace MV 2138 for trade-in plus $2000.


WM Nause
For CHIEF, SUPPLY DIVISION
RELEASING OFFICER

Telecon Coord J. Burwell
WH/LOG
COORDINATING OFFICER
SECRET

R.M. Herman
VEHICLE SECTION
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED. Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE : 141 WCJ/LSE/LSB/
15 FEBRUARY 1959

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5

INFO : DO/S, SSA, OL 3, S/C 2

ROUTING

FEB 14 10 2133
REC'D CABLE SECT.

ROUTINE

IN 20248

CITE MEXI 3310

TO DIR INFO

LIEMPTY

RE: A. HMM/ 7257

B. HMMA 12095 PARA 15 D

C. HMMT 669

CAN REPLACE LIENTRAP (MV-2138) ON TRADE-IN PLUS $2,000.

PLEASE CABLE AUTHORIZATION.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

:file
/Br.3

# OPERATIONAL AUTHORIZATION

TO : FINANCE DIVISION

THROUGH: FI/PLANS/PROJECTS BRANCH, FI/ADMIN/BF

SUBJECT: LI**TY

APPROVAL OF PROJECT
1/3510-33-16/4
ACCOUNT NO.
4/11/Mexico
COUNTRY AREA DIVISION

SECTION 1.

TO BE COMPLETED BY PROJECTS BRANCH

THE ABOVE PROJECT HAS BEEN APPROVED FROM 1 october 1958 TO 30 november 1959 IN THE TOTAL AMOUNT OF $ 95,560.00 AS BROKEN DOWN BELOW.

--G4
FI/PLANS/PROJECTS BRANCH

SECTION 2.

TO BE COMPLETED BY CASE OFFICER

| BREAKDOWN OF REQUESTED TOTAL | FISCAL YEAR 1959 | FISCAL YEAR 1960 |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- |
| COMPENSATION                 | $ 32,710.00      | $ 53,50.00       |
| ALLOWANCES                   | $ 1,500.00       | $ 1,40.00        |
| TRAVEL                       | $ 4,750.00       | $ 1,450.00       |
| OPERATIONAL EXPENSES         | $ 3,350.00       | $ 1,750.00       |
| OTHER:                       | $ 21,000.00      |                  |
| **TOTAL**                    | $ 55,560.00      | $ 59,200.00      |


TYPE OF PROJECT (Check one) REGULAR

METHOD BY WHICH PAYMENTS ARE TO BE MADE

REGULAR FINANCIAL ACCOUNTINGS (APR 30-10)

FUNDS TO BE
ACCOUNTED
RECEIPTS ONLY (CFR 9.4)
FOR BY:
OTHER (Explain):
(Check one)

SUBSIDY

PROPRIETARY

SECTION 3.

TO BE COMPLETED BY DIVISION BUDGET OFFICER

I HEREBY CERTIFY THAT THE ich DIVISION BUDGET FOR THE FISCAL YEAR 959 CONTAINS SUFFICIENT FUNDS TO MEET THE OBLIGATIONS OUTLINED ABOVE.

![signature of Division Budget Officer]

26 NOV
1958

DIVISION BUDGET OFFICER
DATE

SECTION 4.

OTHER APPROVALS

FINANCE DIVISION MUST HAVE, IN ADDITION TO FI PROJECT APPROVAL, SPECIFIC WRITTEN APPROVAL ON CERTAIN TYPES OF EXPENDITURES BEFORE FUNDS CAN BE ADVANCED. INDICATE BELOW ANY APPROVALS IN THIS CATEGORY THAT HAVE BEEN SECURED:

PURCHASE OF AUTOMOBILE
APPROVAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE PLAN WHEN REQUIRED
PURCHASE OF MAJOR ITEMS OF EQUIPMENT
OTHER (Explain):
RENTALS IN EXCESS OF THAT PERMITTED BY REGULATION

SECTION 5.

ADDITIONAL CRYPTONYMS, PSEUDONYMS, ETC.

Raymond H. Corondo (me)
Oliver G. Canting (mc)

LI**TY - 3,-4,-5,-6,-7,-8,-9,-10,-11,-12,-13,-14,-15,-16,-17

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF DIVISION CHIEF OR DESIGNEE DATE

John B. Brady 2595

FORM NO. 680 REPLACES FORM 39-104
1 JUN 55 WHICH IS OBSOLETE.

SECRET

(3)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Operational/LIEPTY Station File Breakdown

ACTION REQUIRED: None, for Headquarters information only

REFERENCES:
(A) SWN-6968, 31 October 1958, Paragraph one.
(S) SWA-11257,

In reply to the request contained in reference (A), listed below is the Station's file breakdown for the LIEPTT Project:

50-6-74/1 - Plans & Developments
/2 - Support
/3 - Operations (General)
/3A - Operations (GERENDE Contact Reports)
/3B - Operations (SCANTLING Contact Reports)
/4 - Production

50-6-74/5 - LIMITED Administration
/5A - LIMITED Operations
/5B - LIMITED Logs

50-6-74/6 - LILYRIC Administration
/6A - LILYRIC Operations
/6B - LILYRIC Logs

50-6-74/7 - LICILLA Administration
/7A - LICALLA Operations
/7B - LICALLA Logs

50-6-74/8 - LIENTRAP Administration
/8A - LIENTRAP Operations
/8B - LIENTRAP Logs

50-6-74/9 - LIJSSEY Administration
/9A - LIJSSSY Operations

![signature] /
/Willard C. CURTIS

Srcanc
5 December 1958

Distribution:

3 - Hqs

2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

MEMORANDUM FOR: VI/OPS - Projects Branch

CRYPTONYM: LIBERTY

DIVISION: Eastern Hemisphere

STATION: Mexico City

HEADQUARTERS CASE OFFICER:
NAME: John P. Brady
ROOM: 2112 Barton Hall
EXT.: 2555
DATE: 21 November 1958

1. It is requested that the LIBERTY Project be approved for the period 1 December 1958 through 30 November 1959 for a total of $395,380.00.

2. WH/Personnel has been requested to locate a Staff Agent to fill the BAR-CUBO slot formerly under the LITTICA Project. This slot will be transferred to the LIBERTY Project and will be filled by a person who will be responsible for the directions of the physical surveillance team under this project.

N. G. Dahlgren, C/WH/III

C.W. Anderson, WH/FI

J. C. King, C/-HD

Date: _____________

Attachments:
FHO (in quad)
Form 680 (in quad)
Table of vehicular allowance
Justification for Purchase of Automobiles
Envelope with true names


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM:

Chief, HHD

FOR:

Operational/LIJSSEY Agents Not Included under Project LIENPTY

Agent Service Records

100A-11257

50-6-21/2

The following LIJSSEY Agents have active Operational Approvals but were not included under Project LIENPTY. It is requested that the Station inform Headquarters whether these agents were ever recruited and whether the Station wishes to have their Operational Approvals remain active.
Please submit Agent Service Records on those agents where appropriate.

LIJSSEY-14 (201-200231)
LIJSSEY-15 (201-200991)
LIJSSEY-16 (201-209153)
LIJSSEY-17 (201-208615)
LIJSSEY-19 (201-207439)
LIJSSEY-20 (201-215073)

OLIVER G. GALBOND

23 October 1958

Distribution:

3 - Mexico City

1 - WH/Mailroom

1 - WH/Mexico Chrono

6 - Subject files

1 - RI

WH/3/Mexico/E.I.SCALETTI

![CS COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# 24 November 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: FI/OPS-Projects Branch

SUBJECT: Justification for Automobiles under Project LICOTY

1. It is requested that the Mexico City Station be authorized to purchase three used sedans for use by the LIRRTY surveillance team. The Station plans to expand the LIEPTY surveillance team into a larger, well-trained physical surveillance asset. They will need three automobiles. Private automobiles or commercial transportation will not be satisfactory since the cars must be outfitted with two-way radios.

2. Authority is also requested to purchase a panel truck to be used in the LIEKRAP operation under this project which mounts mobile photo graphic surveillances.

3. It is also requested that a quasi-personal car be authorized for Oliver C. Scantling (ps). Scantling is an indigenous agent under oral contract. A car is a prerequisite for his work for KWMARK which includes casings, surveillances, and investigations. Because of the sensitive nature of his work, and the heavy use of the car, the Station has decided that Scantling should be furnished a GP car.

4. LIMITY agents were formerly carried under the LIPSTICK Projects. The vehicles used by the LICETY agents under these other projects will be disposed of and new ones will be purchased after the above TVA has been approved. The vehicles which will be replaced are HV 2148, HV 2147, HV 2138, and HV 2044. One of the surveillance cars will be new and will not replace an old car. It was decided that these vehicles should be replaced rather than transferred to the LIKETY Project for security reasons and because of the age of the automobiles. The automobiles are 1951 and 1952 models and have been used for sensitive surveillance work for over two years. The panel truck which was used in the LL-WRAP Operation under the LIPSTICK Project has been operating for two years in all parts of the city and has become a security threat. The fact that the Lim Tica surveillance team knows that the truck exists, even to the point that one of the team members is the listed owner of the truck, also dictates replacement of this vehicle.

J. C. KING
Chief, WHD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET
(When Filled in)
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUPPORT ANNEX - TABLE OF VEHICULAR ALLOWANCE

1. PROJECT

LIEMPTY

2. SENIOR STAFF

3. TYPE OF ACTION (Check one)

4. AREA
   A. NEW TVA
   A. DIVISION
   WMD
   B. AMENDMENT OF EXISTING TVA
   B. BRANCH
   III
   C. DESK
   Mexico

5. 
| ITEM | TYPE                                               | REQUESTED ACTION | TOTAL ON HAND | TOTAL PRESENT TVA | TOTAL PROPOSED TVA |
| ---- | -------------------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------- | ----------------- | ------------------ |
| A.   | SEDAN 2 or 4 door, 5 passenger American or foreign |                  | 0             | 0                 | 4                  |
| B.   | STATION WAGON                                      |                  |               |                   |                    |
| C.   | OTHER (List below)                                 |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (1)  | Truck, panel, American or foreign mfg.             |                  | 0             | 0                 | 1                  |
| (2)  |                                                    |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (3)  |                                                    |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (4)  |                                                    |                  |               |                   |                    |
| (5)  |                                                    |                  |               |                   |                    |
| D.   | TOTALS                                             |                  |               | 0                 | 5                  |

6. REVIEWED BY

SIGNATURE LOGISTICS OFFICER DIVISION DATE

7. APPROVAL REQUESTED BY

SIGNATURE CHIEF, ADMIN. DIVISION DATE

8. APPROVED

BY DIRECTION OF DOP DATE

9. AUTHORIZED

BY DIRECTION OF DD/S DATE

FORM 1116 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
9-57

SECRET
CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
(20-36)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

28 October 1958

MEMORANDUM FOR: WH/Personnel

SUBJECT: Request for Staff Agent to fill JAP-8100 Slot in Mexico City

1. It is requested that WH/Personnel locate a staff Agent to fill the JAP-8100, JO (FI), GS-12 slot in Mexico City which was recently vacated by Alfred J. CLOWER(ps).

2. This Agent must be bilingual in Spanish and should have operational experience, especially in physical surveillance techniques. It would be helpful if the candidate also has area knowledge. He will be expected to spot, develop, recruit, and direct surveillance assets.

3. It is requested that a suitable candidate be located as soon as possible so that the Contract Agent now performing these functions can be relieved of this responsibility and can devote his time to other tasks.

R. H. Dahlgren
Chief, WH/III

WH/3/Mexico/CZehrung:ngs

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - WH/Mexico Chrono

1 - Subject


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET

FROM: (Headquarters component)

WH

TO:

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST
AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

FROM: (Division)

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS I THROUGH 12.
ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.
ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE
ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYMBOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELEMENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.
ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE. CITE ANY FILES. SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RELATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST ITEM 10 MAY ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION DEING REQUESTED. TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED IN A FILE OR TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.
ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION REQUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

1. TYPE OF FILE

SUBJECT
X PROJECT

2. COUNTRY NUMBER
   50

CODE FILE NUMBER

CATEGORY NUMBER ISPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER

6

74/02

3. FILE TITLE ISPECIFIC SUBJECT (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES)

KDFACTOR

4. ACTION REQUIRED

ANALYSIS ACTION

OPEN FILE

X AMEND FILE TITLE

CLOSE FILE INDICATE DISPOSITIONI
REOPEN

5. DISPOSITION

RETAIN

DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED
THRU DATE

6. REMARKS FOR FIELO DISTRIBUTION

FORMERLY LIEMPTY

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROIECTS ONLY)

HMM

O INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK LIST ACTION DESK FIRSTI

50

9. FILES ACTION

HOLO IN
CS FILES

RESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTED

PREPARE FOLDER AND SEND TO REQUESTER

CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO
LOFFICER & DESKI

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

11. ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.

12. COORDINATION

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.
IWHEN APPLICABLE)

13. RID, APPROVAL

AQUEST APPROVED BY

![Signature]

EFFECTIVE DATE

FORM
12-63 812

OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
MFG.264

050
SECRET

006

074/02

38 1-CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

SECRET

# CASE FILE REQUEST

TO: RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FROM: Charlotte Fehring

|           |          |                    |
| --------- | -------- | ------------------ |
| COMPONENT | BUILDING | DATE               |
| EU        | Barton   | 24 October 1958    |
|           |          | ROOM NO. TELEPHONE |
|           |          | 2120   2758        |

1. CASE TITLE

LIFETY/Support

4. ACTION REQUESTED

* OPEN FILE AS INDICATED

AMEND FILE AS INDICATED.

CLOSE FILE

* RESTRICT FILE TO (DESK): EU/III/Mexico

3. COUNTRY AND NUMBER

3. CATEGORY AND NUMBER

* PREPARE FILE FOLDERS AND SEND TO REQUESTER: EU/III/Mexico

50 (Mexico)

6 Operational

5. COMMENTS: (Include brief description of file or project)

Photo and physical surveillance coverage and support for station.

6. FOR RI USE ONLY

1. PROJECT STATUS

2. FIELD STATION(S)

3. HDQS COMPONENT(S)

> [Figure: “RECORD COPY” diagonally written across the page.]

7. ENDORSEMENT

THIS REQUEST SATISFIES RECORDS REQUIREMENTS.

[Signature]

RI/ANALYSIS

8. APPROVAL

REQUEST APPROVED

[Signature]

FOR CHIEF, RI

EFFECTIVE DATE

29 October 1958

RI CASE TITLE NUMBER

N.S.

6 712

FORM NO.

1 DEC 56 812 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(29)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# ATTACHMENT "3"
HMMA-31303-7 February 1967

> [Figure] The figure shows a diagram with the words "pasta" (left), "piedra" (center), and "pasta" (right) indicating different parts of the diagram.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# FACHADA SUR

> [Figure] Architectural elevation of the south facade featuring rectangular windows and stone accents ('piedrin').


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

240

30

240

aparente

30

aparente

150

90

30

1.50

90

30

1.50

.90

30

2.60

15

![image of building facade]

esc 1:50

FACHADA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

ORIENTE

piedra

pasto

c. servicios

toilet

cocina

cocina

cocina

comercio

AL COLECTOR. R-5

CORTE

![building blueprint]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

![photo of a building plan]

reg
w.c.

col
B.A.P.

B.A.N

baño

baño

baño

baño

escalerd
garage

R-1
R-2

cisterna.

R-4
R-3

LBANAL DE TUBO DE CONCRETO DE 15 cms 2% min. de pendiente

> this floor not added in an economy measure.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)