# SECRET

29 Yarch 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WI/CA

SUBJECT: Response to Memo: on "Council for Latin America"

The activities of WI/1 touch upon four organizations listed below. There are no other activities as they may concern organisations listed on the CA memo (attached).

1. [redacted] currently budgeted at $50,000 annually, supports in part this organisation, which also receives funds (some $950,000 yearly) from HISSOR, a German Bishops’ fund with headquarters in Aachen, Germany. The objective of this effort is to help establish model or prototype agrarian organizations designed to alleviate and hopefully to advance the social and economic status of the Mexican campesino.

2. [Instituto de Investigaciones Sociales y Economicas] The executive director of this organization was formerly associated with the LIEFF project, but he is no longer an active member of this project which is funded at the current rate of $4,300 annually and supports LIREFF-1, the Station's only agent with access to rightist political organizations.

3. [Centro Nacional de Estudios Sociales] - The director of this organization (LISIER-3) is no longer an active HOFACT agent. The LISINER project was terminated in 1965 and had been funded at an annual rate of some $65,000. The project supported a mass media propaganda effort directed at the middle and lower classes of Mexico and sponsored by a front group of conservative Mexican businesses.

4. [American Chamber of Commerce of Mexico] - The vice president of this organisation is a current Station asset, LIREFF-1. No money is provided from KOPACE sources to this organization, although LIREFF-1 receives monthly $300.00. The duties of this agent do not directly relate to him

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

- 2 -

29

Cluster of Commerce responsibilities. LIMSY-1's principal duty is to gather material on rightist political organizations.

W. J. Kaufman
C/WH/1

Attachment:
Memorandum

Distribution:

0 & 1 - Addressee
cc - LINDOSEZ Project
cc - LIHW7-1 201
cc - LISIREW-3 201
cc - WH/1/Cr

SECRET

![illegible handwritten text] YRS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)