104-10173-10166 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: KING, MARTIN LUTHER, JR.
201-760966

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 20 APR 78     | 20 APR 78     | ROBIN LINDLEY            | Bobin D.                        |
| 22 Sept 78    | 22 Sept 78    | William A. Webb          | William A. Webb                 |
| 22 Sept 78    | 22 Sept 78    | Kenneth S. Schlag        | Kenneth S. Schlag               |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

King, Martin Luther (see)

201-760966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
DOCUMENT RECEIPT

SENDER OF DOCUMENT(S): Deputy Director for Plans

NOTICE TO RECIPIENT: and Return as Shown on Reverse Side

| CIA NO | DOCUMENT DATE | COPIES | DESCRIPTION OF DOCUMENT(S) SENT DOCUMENT TITLE | ATTACHMENTS | CLASS |
| ------ | ------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------- | ----- |
|        |               |        |                                                |             |       |
|        | 2 MAY 1958    | O & 1  | CSCI 316/01702-68                              | 3           | S     |
|        |               |        |                                                |             |       |

ADDRESS OF RECIPIENT: S.J. Papich Federal Bureau of Investigation Room 845, Riddell Bldg. 1730 K Street, N.W. Washington, D.C.

RECIPIENT

SIGNATURE (ACKNOWLEDGING RECEIPT OF ABOVE DOCUMENT(S))

![signature]

DATE OF RECEIPT 2 MAY 1958

615 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

(33)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

2 MAY 1368

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

1. Reference is made to this Agency's out message number 94270 dated 25 April 1968 concerning the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

2. On 16 April Roderick Claflin BROWN, a Panamanian national born 1 July 1917 in British Honduras, voluntarily appeared at the Department of National Investigations (DENI) of the Republic of Panama and signed a deposition, the highlights of which are as follows:

(1) On 26 October 1962 he served as cook/seaman aboard the Texaco S.S. Southhampton which docked at Mobile, Alabama.

(2) While on a shore visit to the Mobile airport on the morning of 26 October 1962 in the company of two fellow Panamanian seamen, he was approached by Marvin P. LITTRELL, owner of LITTRELL Motor Co., 921-25 South Clinton Street, Athens, Alabama, who after ascertaining BROWN was a Panamanian seaman, asked if he knew of Dr. Martin Luther KING, Jr.

(3) LITTRELL inquired whether BROWN was interested in employment, the details of which were unspecified. Не went on to describe Dr. KING as "Our greatest problem who is causing us much trouble." He gave BROWN a business card to use in the event he was interested in pursuing the employment offer.

(4) On 28 January 1963 BROWN wrote LITTRELL from New York City, stating he was interested in a job and

SECRET

![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

-2-

requested $75 for travel from New York City to Mobile. On 2 February 1963 BROWN received a reply from LITTRELL, restating that he had a job waiting for BROWN in Alabama, but questioning why $75 was needed since the fare was less than $40 by bus.

(5) After discussions with a relative and friends in New York City, BROWN suspected that the LITTRELL job offer was related with assassination plans for Dr. KING. Therefore he did not respond to the LITTRELL letter and dismissed the incident until the death of Dr. KING in April 1968. BROWN returned to Panama in 1964.

3. Enclosed for your information is a copy of the LITTRELL letter and the Spanish language deposition made by BROWN, as well as an English translation of the deposition as described in paragraph 2 of the referenced out message.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: James R. Hunt

JAMES ANGLETON

2

CBCI-316/01702-68

3 Enclosures

WH/2/Panama/G. Hodges:cib 2 May 1968

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee, w/atts
1 - CI/R&A (Dummy)
1 - CI/LIA (Dummy)
2 - CI/OPS/DO, w/atts
1 - WH/2/Panama

Based on: PANAMA CITY 6180 (IN 97566)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID:
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

FROM: RID/AN

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper tile no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

PROPER FILE NO.

TO ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

| TO                      | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| ----------------------- | ------- | :-----------: | :------------: | :----------------: |
| 1. WH/REEC              |         |  15 APR 1968  |  15 APR 1968   |        K46         |
| 2. c/wH/e6              |         |  15 APR 1968  |                |                    |
| 3.                      |         |               |                |                    |
| 4. le/e/PP              |         |               |                |                    |
| 5.                      |         |               |                |                    |
| 6. WH/COG/EXO           |         |               |                |        Fta         |
| 7.                      |         |               |                |                    |
| 8.  Mancy Lind          |         |  16 APR 1968  |  16 APR 1968   |                    |
| 9.                      |         |               |                |                    |
| 10. c//ops//20 (m. Hee) |         |  16 APR 1968  |                |       APR..        |
| 11.                     |         |               |                |                    |
| 12. RI/AN/N. Lindi.     |         |               |  23 APR 1968   |        NRS         |
| 13. RID/EDI (CWP/10     |         |               |                |                    |
| 14.                     |         |               |                |                    |
| 15.                     |         |               |                |                    |
| 16.                     |         |               |                |                    |
| 17. RID/F1              |         |               |                |                    |

2 ce to c/lpos
3 cc to c/wH

![Table with labels]

MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.

8-6 - 10.c routes
toC/WH/Fi for retention
100 retaines for wH/COG file

It Ils reclassify into 201-760966 and X-uto 19-4-105-

![checkboxes for AN and RI with Abstract and Inder selected]

reclassify
19-4-105
019-004-105

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | INDEX |
| :-----------: | :------: | :---: |

FILE TITLE
FILE NUMBER
PRIMARY COOLI
4-115
DOCUMENT DATE
DOCUMENT NUMBER
DATE MICROFILMED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET TELE POUCH

DISP NO - UFGA-29884

FILE NO - NONE

DATE - QQ APRIL 1968

INDEXING - NONE

MICROFILM - NONE

TO - CHIEF, WH DIVISION

INFO - CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF, WOLIME

FROM - COS, JMWAVE

SUBJECT - SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF DEATH OF MARTIN
LUTHER KING, JR., IAO APRIL 1968

REFERENCE - UFGA-29877

IN ADDITION TO THE SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE
MARTIN LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION TRANSMITTED IN REFERENCE, THE
FOLLOWING SUMMARY FOR 8-9 APRIL HAS BEEN FURNISHED BY THE AMOTS -

*   QM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE ONE - JJMOBILIZATION OF 55,000 TROOPS TO REPRESS THE NEGROES'' A THE ARTICLE REPORTED ALL THE DISTURBANCES WHICH HAVE OCCURRED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.
*   WN GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JUWITH THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING THE IDEOLOGY OF NON-VIOLENCE HAS DIED'' A AN INTERVIEW WITH FLOYD MCKISSICK, NATIONAL DIRECTOR OF THE CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/. JJTHIS SIMPLY MEANS THAT NON-VIOLENCE HAS CEASED AS A MEANS OF FIGHTING. THE PEOPLE CANNOT BE TAUGHT TO BE NON-VIOLENT WHILE WE ARE INVOLVED IN A VIOLENT WAR IN VIETNAM. NON-VIOLENCE CANNOT BE PREACHED TO THE BLACK PEOPLE WHO HAVE TO FACE VIOLENCE EVERY DAY ON THE STREETS OF THIS COUNTRY.'' THIS WAS SAID IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN RADIO HABANA AND FLOYD MCKISSICK. WHEN ASKED ABOUT THE POSSIBLE CONSEQUENCES OF THE ASSASSINATION OF KING, MCKISSICK REPLIED - JJI REPEAT THAT WE ARE MAKING NO PREDICTIONS, BUT THE

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE ONE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE TWO

AMERICAN NEGRO IS NOT WILLING TO CONTEMPLATE IMPASSIBLY THE ASSASSI-
NATION OF OUR LEADERS, OUR HEROES, AND OUR PEOPLE."

EM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A ARTICLE BY JUAN MARRERO ENTI-
TLED, JJTHE AMERICAN NEGROES ARE WRITING THEIR FINEST PAGE OF
HEROISM. JJAGAINST ALL THAT AND MUCH MORE, THE NEGROES ROSE UP
TODAY IN MORE THAN SIXTY CITIES. AND IT IS LOGICAL TO EXPECT NEW
PAGES OF HEROISM. STOKELY CARMICHAEL, THE NEGRO LEADER, GAVE THIS
WARNING ONE DAY AFTER THE DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING - JUHAT
HAPPENED ON THE NIGHT WE LEARNED OF THE ASSASSINATION OF DR. KING
IS NOTHING COMPARED TO WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN.J

RM GRANMA, O APRIL, PAGE 3 A JJTHE WIDOW OF LUTHER KING HEAD'S
THE MARCH IN MEMPHIS." THE ARTICLE TELLS ABOUT THE MARCH AND
SHOWS PHOTOGRAPHS OF IT.

TM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL /755 A.M./ A JJA TENSE
CALM REIGNS IN THE U.S. BUT IT IS A PRELUDE TO SERIOUS EVENTS.
NATIONAL MOURNING DECREED BY LYNDON JOHNSON FOR YESTERDAY, U APRIL,
MARKS A LESSENING OF DEMONSTRATIONS WHICH ARE EXPECTED TO START UP
AGAIN AT ANY MOMENT."

YM RADIO REBELDE NEWSCAST, I APRIL /955 A.M./ A JJ JFORWARD
WITH BLACK POWER UNTIL CAPITALIST MISERY, THE FUNDAMENTAL CAUSE OF
HUMAN INJUSTICE, IS OVERTHROWN" SAID THE SOCIALIST PARTY OF CHILE
IN A CABLEGRAM SENT TO THE AMERICAN NEGRO LEADER, STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
ON THE OCCASION OF THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING."

UN RADIO LIBERACIÓN, I APRIL /1230 P.M./ A THIS NEWSCAST
REFERS TO A DEMONSTRATION IN WHICH 200 LAI IN AMERICAN, ASIAN, AND
AFRICAN STUDENT'S WERE SAID TO HAVE PARTICIPATED IN FRONT OF THE
U.S. ENBASSY IN WARSAW, POLAND, AS A PROTEST OVER THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING.

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE TWO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

VIA TELE POUCH

3 A C/WHD

2 A C/WH/COG

2 A C/WOLINE

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29884 PAGE THREE

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

| PRIOR TO FILING                                                                                                                                                                | TO: ACTION BRANCH                                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. Fill in Soct. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID. 2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation. | If file no. and titló shown are not proper, insert proper tile no. below and forward document to RID/AN. |
| FROM: RID/AN                                                                                                                                                                   | FROPER FILE NO.                                                                                          |

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

KAR 2 Ce to CA/FREP

3 acto, C/WH

| TO                           | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED. | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| ---------------------------- | -------- | ------------- | --------------- | ------------------ |
| 1. LWH/REEL                  |          | 15 APR 1968   | APR 1968        | Wa                 |
| 2. /04/006                   |          |               |                 |                    |
| 3.                           |          |               |                 |                    |
| 4. Lille /PP                 |          |               |                 |                    |
| 5.                           |          |               |                 |                    |
| 6. WH/C06/EYO                |          |               |                 | Paw                |
| 7.                           |          |               |                 |                    |
| 8. iaye Buf                  |          | Mepil         |                 | ng                 |
| 9.                           |          |               |                 |                    |
| 10. 01/195/00                |          | 16 APR 1960   | 3 APR 1968      |                    |
| 11.                          |          |               |                 |                    |
| 12. /B1/DN/ 1210/EDI CLOPIDO |          | 23            |                 | q                  |
| 13.                          |          |               |                 |                    |
| 14.                          |          |               |                 |                    |
| 15. fries                    |          |               |                 | la                 |
| 16.                          |          |               |                 |                    |
| 17. RID/FI                   |          |               |                 |                    |

![chart of ITEALL PROGRAM]

MICROFILMED

APR 15 1968

DOC. MICRO, SER.

8-6 - 10c routes to C/WH/F1 for retention.

Icc retained for w/COG file

12. Plo rickass fy into 201-760966 and X-ne into 19-24-105.

Rielasiky 19-4-105

![table with row headers of ANX FI PS and ABSTRACT]

![abstract and index table]

019-004-105

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | INDEX |
| ------------- | -------- | ----- |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO - UFGA-29877

FILE NO - NONE

DATE - 0Q APRIL 1968

INDEXING - NONE

MICROFILM - NONE

TO - CHIEF, WH DIVISION

INFO - CHIEF, WH/COG - CHIEF WOL IKE

FROM - CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE

SUBJECT - SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA TREATMENT OF THE DEATH OF
MARTIN LUTHER KING, TAI APRIL 1968

THE FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF CUBAN MEDIA COVERAGE OF THE MARTIN
LUTHER KING ASSASSINATION DURING THE PERIOD 5-8 APRIL HAS BEEN
PREPARED BY THE AMOTS-

1. QM GRANMA /HAVANA DAILY NEWSPAPER OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF
   CUBA/, APRIL 68, FRONT PAGE - *LAST MINUTE NEWS - MARTIN LUTHER
   KING ASSASSINATED IN MEMPHIS, U.S.A. ACCORDING TO FIRST REPORTS,
   LUTHER KING HAS BEEN SHOT BY A *WHITE WELL-DRESSED YOUNG MALE.*

2. EM GRANMA, / APRIL, FRONT PAGE - *TWENTY-SEVEN PERSONS HAVE
   BEEN KILLED IN THE U.S. AS A RESULT OF THE FIGHTING WHICH HAS BEEN
   GOING ON SINCE THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING.* IN WASHING-
   TON ALONE THERE ARE 750 WOUNDED AND 4,186 PERSONS ARRESTED. SNIPERS
   CONTINUE TO BE ACTIVE IN DIFFERENT CITIES IN THE U.S. THE WHITE
   HOUSE AND THE CAPITOL ARE UNDER HEAVY GUARD.*/FULL INFORMATION
   GIVEN./

3. EM GRANMA, / APRIL, LAST PAGE - *TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE RAP
   BROWN.*

4. *WASHINGTON, / APRIL, ASSOCIATED FRENCH PRESS - AFP,*

FRENCH NEWS AGENCY AMX LEAFLETS WERE DISTRIBUTED HERE THIS MORNING,
URGING THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF WASHINGTON TO GO TO RICHMOND TO LIBERATE
RAP BROWN. *THE LEAFLETS CALLED ON THE NEGROES TO FORM A MOTOR-
CADE AND LEAVE FOR RICHMOND TOMORROW, MONDAY.*

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE ONE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET TELE POUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO

4. GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE - ARTICLE ENTITLED *PRINCIPAL NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS IN THE U.S.*, BY JUANA CARRASCO. THE ARTICLE SAYS THAT NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE DIVIDED INTO TWO GROUPS - THE VIOLENT ONES AND THE NON-VIOLENT ONES. IT MENTIONS THE FOLLOWING AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE THE USE OF VIOLENCE - CONGRESS OF RACIAL EQUALITY /CORE/, STUDENT NON-VIOLENT COORDINATING COMMITTEE /SNCC/, BLACK MUSLIMS, BLACK PANTHER PARTY, BLACKSTONE RANGERS, THE ALERT PATROL, REVOLUTIONARY ACTION MOVEMENT /RAM/, THE BLACK GUARDS, THE DEACONS, AND *THE U.S.*. THE FOLLOWING NEGRO ORGANIZATIONS ARE MENTIONED AMONG THOSE WHICH ADVOCATE NON-VIOLENCE - NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE /NAACP/, NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE, AND THE SOUTHERN CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP CONFERENCE /SCLC/

5. GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE - *ATTEMPTS ARE BING MADE TO BLAME CARMICHAEL FOR THE OUTBREAK OF RACIAL VIOLENCE IN THE U.S.*

6. YM GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE - *RACIAL CLASHES BETWEEN NEGRO AND WHITE AMERICAN SOLDIERS IN JAPAN.*

7. UM GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE - *OTHE AMERICAN NEGRO PEOPLE.*

8. IM GRANMA, APRIL, LAST PAGE - *MARTYR'S OF THE NEGRO STRUGGLE.*

9. OM RADIO LIBERACION AND RADIO PROGRESO /HAVANA RADIO STATIONS/,

10. 6 APRIL, UP A.M. AND 12 NOON- *THE CHIEF OF THE MISSION TO CUBA OF THE SOUTH VIETNAMESE NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT HAS SENT A MESSAGE TO AFRO-AMERICANS ON THE ASSASSINATION OF THE LEADER, MARTIN LUTHER KING. THIS MESSAGE SAYS THAT THE CRIME WHICH WAS COMMITTED AGAINST .MARTIN LUTHER KING UNMASKS THE EVIL FACE OF THE RULERS AND RACISTS OF THE UNITED STATES.* *THE MESSAGE OF THE VIETNAMESE MISSION IN HAVANA ENDS BY SAYING THAT, WITH THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING, ALL THAT HAS BEEN ACCOMPLISHED BY THE RULERS OF THE UNITED STATES IS TO POUR CIL ONTO THE FLAMES OF THE STRUGGLE OF AFRO-AMERICANS,*

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE TWO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE:

AND THAT THESE FLAMES ARE RISING VIOLENTLY TO PUT AN END TO ALL THE
OPPRESSION AND INJUSTICE WHICH IS FOUND IN THE UNITED STATES, WHICH
HINDER'S THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY.

10. OPM RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, REP P.M. - STOKELY CARMICHAEL,
    LEADER OF BLACK POWER, SAID - WE NEGROES MUST ARM OURSELVES WITH
    RIFLES AND PISTOLS AND LAUNCH AN ASSAULT ON THE STREETS OF THE
    CITIES OF THE UNITED STATES IN REPRISAL FOR KING'S ASSASSINATION.
    CARMICHAEL PREDICTED THAT THERE WILL BE EXECUTIONS IN THE STREETS AS
    A RESULT OF KING'S ASSASSINATION. HE ALSO PREDICTED THAT THE
    VIOLENCE WHICH HAS BEEN UNLEASHED BY NEGROES AS A RESULT OF KING'S
    DEATH WILL BE PALE AS COMPARED TO WHAT WILL HAPPEN IN AMERICAN
    CITIES.

11. DOM RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. HIS/KING'S/ DEATH SHOWS
    ONCE AGAIN THAT THE EXPLOITED MASSES CAN ONLY ANSWER REACTIONARY
    VIOLENCE WITH REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE.

12. CWM RADIO PROGRESO, APRIL, P.M. CARMICHAEL SAID
    DURING A TELEPHONE INTERVIEW THAT 'A SERIOUS MISTAKE HAS BEEN MADE
    IN ASSASSINATING DR. KING BECAUSE HE HAD BEEN THE LEADER OF A MOVE-
    MENT WHICH URGED THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES NOT TO BURN
    THE CITIES, NOT TO COMMIT ACTS OF VIOLENCE. THIS MEANS THAT IT WILL
    BE NECESSARY TO START AN ALL-OUT REVOLUTION.' CARMICHAEL ADDED -
    'SERIOUS INCIDENTS HAVE TAKEN PLACE IN 35 CITIES WHERE THERE HAVE
    BEEN FIRES, SHOOTING, FIGHTING, AND DEATHS AS A RESULT OF THE CRIME
    COMMITTED AGAINST DR. KING. NATURALLY, OTHER SIMILAR THINGS WILL
    TAKE PLACE. GUERRILLA WARFARE WILL RAPIDLY SPREAD THROUGH THE CITIES
    BECAUSE IT IS ALREADY EVIDENT THAT WE CANNOT OPENLY REBEL AGAINST
    THE POLICE.' STOKELY CARMICHAEL ENDED THE INTERVIEW BY SENDING
    AFFECTIONATE REGARDS TO THE REVOLUTIONARY CUBAN PEOPLE AND THEIR
    LEADER, FIDEL CASTRO RUZ.'

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE THREE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR

13. RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. JUAN /MARI/ BRAS, SECRETARY-GENERAL OF THE MOVEMENT FOR THE INDEPENDENCE OF PUERTO RICO, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE INTERVIEW - ADR. LUTHER KING'S ASSASSINATION WILL UNDOUBTEDLY PRECIPITATE THE REBELLION OF THE NEGRO PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES AGAINST ALL THE ABUSES OF WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN THE OBJECT.

14. RADIO HABANA, 5 APRIL, P.M. THE EXECUTIVE SECRETARIAT OF THE ASIAN, AFRICAN, AND LATIN AMERICAN PEOPLES SOLIDARITY ORGANIZATION /AALAPSO/ SENT A MESSAGE OF CONDOLENCE TO THE SNCC ON THE ASSASSINATION OF LUTHER KING. "THE AALAPSO'S MESSAGE TO THE AMERICAN PACIFIST ORGANIZATION ENDS AS FOLLOWS WE BEG YOU TO EXPRESS TO THE FAMILY OF MARTIN LUTHER KING AND TO ALL AFRO-AMERICANS OUR DEEPEST SORROW OVER HIS DEATH, OUR DECISION TO SUPPORT YOUR STRUGGLE, AND OUR DEEP CONVICTION THAT THIS TERRIBLE CRIME--WHICH SHOWS US THAT ARMED REVOLUTIONARY VIOLENCE IS THE ONLY WAY OF ACHIEVING GENUINE LIBERATION--WILL HELP STRENGTHEN THE STRUGGLE OF THE AFRO-AMERICAN PEOPLE WHICH IS ALREADY AIMED IN THE DIRECTION OF A TOTAL CONFRONTATION."

15. RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. JAGUSTIN /GONZALEZ/ MARTINEZ, BISHOP OF THE EPISCOPAL CHURCH OF CUBA, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW MAY THE TRAGIC DISAPPEARANCE OF THIS GREAT LEADER AT LEAST HELP TO SPEED UP THE ARRIVAL OF THE DAY WHEN EVERY MAN IN HIS NATION AND IN ALL OTHER NATIONS WILL BE TREATED WITH THE RESPECT WHICH IS DUE TO THEM AS HUMAN BEINGS."

16. RADIO HABANA, APRIL, P.M. REVEREND RAFAEL PASTOR, OF THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH IN LUYANO, HAVANA, MADE THE FOLLOWING STATEMENTS IN A SPECIAL INTERVIEW - HIS BROTHERS, THE AMERICAN NEGROES, WILL LEARN MUCH FROM HIS DEATH. WE CAN ALMOST ASSURE THAT THEY, THE AMERICAN NEGROES WHOSE DIGNITY AND DECORUM HAS BEEN CRUSHED, WILL COME BACK TO LIFE AFTER CENTURIES OF LETHARGY AND

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FOUR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

WILL RISE FROM THEIR GRAVES AND FORM AN INVINCIBLE ARMY.

GUM RADIO LIBERACION, APRIL, P.M. EDITORIAL COMMENTS CRITICIZING THE NON-VIOLENT LINE WHICH WAS ADVOCATED BY LUTHER KING, SAYING THAT THIS LINE WAS INOPERATIVE. MARTIN LUTHER KING DID NOT PREACH VIOLENCE BUT HE WAS THE VICTIN OF VIOLENCE. HE DID NOT UNLEASH VIOLENCE BUT VIOLENCE MOVED HIM DOWN.

RADIO HABANA, APRIL 68, P.M. JOHNSON POSTPONED HIS TRIP. HE CALLED THE CIVIL RIGHTS LEADERS--WHO WERE MORE OR LESS UNDER CONTROL--TO GO TO THE WHITE HOUSE. JOHNSON APPEARED ON TELEVISION. HE EXPRESSED HIS ANGUISH AND HIS SORROW. HE MADE INSPIRED COMMENTS ABOUT MARTIN LUTHER KING. THESE ACTIONS AND THESE WORD'S HIDE FEAR OVER THE WAVE OF JUST VIOLENCE WHICH IS STARTING TO SPREAD THROUGH THE UNITED STATES. AT A TIME WHEN COMPLEX INTER-NATIONAL NEGOTIATIONS MIGHT BE UNDERWAY, UNDER DIFFICULT CONDITIONS, THIS NEW CRIME WIDENS THE CHASM WHICH DIVIDES THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES AND INCITES THE PEOPLE TO PROMOTE DISTURBANCES WHOSE FAR-REACHING EFFECTS ARE HARD TO PREDICT. THE ASSASSINATION OF MARTIN LUTHER KING CONFIRMS THAT THE VIOLENCE OF IMPERIALIST RACISTS IS ONLY ANSWERED EFFECTIVELY WITH THE VIOLENCE OF THE REVOLUTIONARY STRUGGLE.

MARK F. EFFIELD

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3 A C/WHD

2 A C/WH/COG

2 A C/WOLINE

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFGA-29877 PAGE FIVE

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, Insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/CR

PROPER FILE NO.

TO. ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

|     | TO         | ROOM NO. | DATE        | OFFICER'S INITIALS |     |
| --- | ---------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------------ | :-: |
| 1.  | WH/BR      |          | 16 APR 1968 |                    | of  |
| 2.  | WH/7/DR    |          | APR 1968    |                    |  2  |
| 3.  | C/WH/7     | OC       |             |                    | ff  |
| 4.  | Steve      |          |             |                    |     |
| 5.  | Bill       |          |             |                    |  R  |
| 6.  | Vetter     |          |             |                    |     |
| 7.  | Rudy       |          |             |                    |  2  |
| 9.  | C1/OPS/DC  |          |             |                    |     |
| 10. | TWK        |          |             |                    |     |
| 13. | File Mckis |          |             |                    |     |
| 15. | L/Firs     |          |             |                    | sc  |
| 17. | RI/Rer     |          |             |                    |     |

CHRONO DETACHED

![table of AGIL PROGRAM, SINDA, PFILES, PLEASE FOR FRONT, BYSST REGE, SLE FUEN, K/D, TBR TRANS]

MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.

> Pat.
> Please note
> on separate
> Routing slip
> & Dick Aber
> 1/ staff after
> exfone hos rend.
> Richard/f
> 22-4-16
> 022-004-016

FILE TITLE

201-960966
FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY COURT)

TRACE REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

LUMENT DATE

DELUNENT NUMBER

4DCA 07012


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# DISPATCH

10

Chief, WH Division

INFO

FROM

Chief of Station, Santo Domingo SKP

SUBJECT Communist Comments on the Death of Martin Luther King/
Reference to "Black Power" Concept

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1.  Attached for Headquarters retention are one copy each
    of statements on the death of Martin Luther King by the Dominican.
    Communist Party (PCD), the Communist 14th of June Revolutionary
    Movement (MR-1J4), and various trade unions. All appeared...
    in the 7 April 1968 issue of El Nacional.

2.  The text of the PCD statement makes reference to the
    visit of Stokely Carmichael to the Latin American Solidarity
    Organization Conference (LASO), quotes a statement by Fidel
    Castro on Carmichael and the concept of "Black Power," and
    expresses the solidarity of the PCD with the struggle of
    North American Negroes. The MR-1J4 statement, only available
    in gist, says that King's death reveals the profound crisis
    existing within US society and shows that for the "racist
    forces," violence is the only law and is applied to internal
    and external enemies alike.

3.  Neither statement issues a call to violence on the
    part of US Negroes.

Paula C. Janina
for Stewart R. PATAKER

ATTACHMENT:

As. Stated Herewith The follisitred

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - Chief, WH Division w/att h/w

3 - Files w/att

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

![CROSS REFERENCE TO]

CS COPY

D 22-4-13,

SECRET

MICROFILMED
APR 15 1968
ĐỌC MICRO, SER.

22-4-16

10 Apr 68

HDCA 7012

Zor preje

022-4-16-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# Condenan Asesinato De Martin Luther King

Dos organizaciones izquierdis- lencià revolucionaria que derrumbará el sistema imperialista.

ta's condenaron hoy la muerte del reverendo Martin Luther King.

En comunicados separados el Partido Comunista Dominicano y el Movimiento Revolucionario 14 de Junio dicen solidarizarse con ol movimiento negro de los Estados Unidos.

El PCD demando de las organi- zaciones políticas y sindicales dès- arrollar actividades en apoyo a la lucha de los negros norteamericanos.

Por su parte el 14 de Junio consideró que el asesinato del Premio Nobel de la Paz revela la profunda crisis en que ha entrado la sociedad norteamericana.

El PCD señala que el el asesinat asesinato del, ifder pacifista ha tenido justa respuesta en la violencia desatada on las ciudades más importantés de los Estados Unidos que ha obligado a que el presidente Johnson cancelara su viaje al exterior para conversaciones de paz en Vietnam.

Demuestra, según el 14 de Junio, que para las fuerzas racistas la única ley es la violencia y que ésta es aplicada a todo enemigo Interno o externo que se revele contra el imperio brutal.

Dice respaldar la rebelión, y los pronunciamientos del líder negro Stokely Carmichael ya que él único camino en los Estados Unidos para Ubrarse de la violencia de los males que padece ese pueblo es la vio- Entiende la organización política que la muerte del reverendo Luther King es una gran ensefianza para los de su raza que sufren la opresión racista.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# PARTIDO COMUNISTA

# DOMINICANO

# (PCD)

¡Nuestra solidaridad plena

con la lucha de los negros

norteamericanos,

como parte que es de la lucha

de todos los oprimidos

de la tierra!

El régimen de los monopolios imperialistas norteamericanos se conmueve por la acción de los pueblos desde fuera con Vietnamal frente, y desde dentro con el gran movimiento por los derechos civiles y por la páz, El asesinato de Lúther King, será presentado como la obra de la mano fanática de un racista; pero queda clara la responsabilidad de los interesados en liqui. dar la acción civil por la violencia, de los interesados en im. poner la mordaza a los reclamos del pueblo que cada vez más lucha organizadamente y que comprende los objetivos de esa lucha, de los monopolios imperialistas.

La violencia engendra violencia, Muchos siglos de explota. ción y de represión han pasado hasta que en los últimos años el négro norteamerica comienza a organizar su resistencia; y en ello el papel de her King es innegable, de los más altos meritos, de la mas encomiable abnegación, aunque su prédica de pas no haya sido comprensible por todos los oprimidos ni la más apropiada como lo demuestra su propia muerte.

• Los negros constit en los Estados Unidos el sector mas explotado de la clase obrera en el nivel de sueldos, en la dis. criminación social que asume formas raciales, en la propor. ción de les que participan en el ejército, en los planes de seguros sociales, por lo que la discriminación y su respuesta en la lucha por los derechos civiles tiene características esen. cialmente clasistas aunque asuma formas raciales, y por lo que crecientemente este fenómeno es comprendido por las propias masas blancas que apoyan los reclamos civiles de la población de raza africana marginada de la sociedad,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# Creen Disturbios Influiran en Dolar

ARIS, 6 de abril. (AFP).. El allido de los disturbios raciales Estados Unidos, cuya primera al ha sido el asesinato del pas. Martin Luther King, repercu. I en una nueva crisis del diar, iman hoy aquí los observado

También se comprueba ese re. traso en las escuelas y centros sociales, así como la estrecha co. rreiación que existe entre el sub- empleo de una inmensa masa ju. venil y su disponibilidad para los disturbios raciales, agrega el ex ministro france,

Por ello, Washigton proyecta hacer adoptar rápidamente un pro- yecto de ley al que Martin Luther

En efecto, el desencadenamiento la violencia va a obstaculizar saneamiento presupuestario, dich

(ESPACIO PAGADO)

Santo Domingo, 6 de abril de 1968,
Secretariado del Comité Central del Partido Comunista Dominicano,

La muerte de Luther King no es la obra de un fanático, sino que significa la política de un grupo social poderoso, La muerte de Kennedy en poco tiempo se indentifi có con una nueva política. La muerte de King es un rasgo más de la in- minencia de nuevas y más feroces acciones del imperialismo; de un entronizamiento de la violencia en el poder estatal, que sólo será vencida con el triunfo de los pueblos; y en esa lucha el pueblo negro norteamericano tendrá un importante papel que ja jugar, juega ya un importante papel, del lado de todos los pueblos del mundo.

Nuestra solidaridad plena con la lucha de los negros norteame- ricanos, como parte que es de la lucha de todos los oprimidos de la tierra!.

Fidel Castro dijo en la clausura de la Conferencia de la Organización Latinoamericana de Solidaridad, donde Stokely Car- michael representaba a los norteamericanos organizados en el Poder Negro.

...Y es que de ese sector negro, por ser el sector mas explotado y reprimido, mas brutalmente maltratado en Estados Unidos, surgirá la vanguardia revolucionaria en el seno de los Estados Unidos; y alrededor de ese movimiento revolucionario, que no surge en ese sector por problemas de raza, sino que sürge por el problema social, por problema de explotación y opresión, y porque constituye ese sector el más sufrido, por la ley de la historia igual que en todas las épocas de la his- torta: como ocurrió con los plebejos en Roma, con los siervos de la gleba en la Edad Média, con los obreros y los campe- sinos en los tiempos contemporáneos, en la sociedadamericana, de ese sector oprimido surgirá el movimiento revolucionarto.

Tan só o unos días han pasado desde el momento en que Johnson anunciara el retiro de su candidatura presidencial, para fomentar la ilusión de que los políticos llamados liberales llegarían al poder en los próximos meses con su programa de Paz en Vietnam y de respeto a los derechos civiles, cuando la bala disparada contra Luther King, colocara su silbido de violencia como la tónica de la política norteamericana inme- diata, Los quo tienen el poder, los monopolios armamentistas, no lo dejarán pacíficamente, no permitirán la suspensión y la derrota en la guerra de Vietnam sia resistir pir todo's los medios, sin plantear su propia salida de violencia a todas las masas del mundo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

(ESPAIO PAGADO)

# ¡PROTESTAMOS POR EL ASESINATO

# DE MARTIN LUTHER KING!

# ¡SOLIDARIDAD CON LOS NEGROS EN LUCHA!

Martin Luther King, líder pacifista del movimiento negro norteamericano, Premio Nobel de la Paz, ha sido asesinado por los opresores de su pueblo y de todos los pueblos explotados del Mundo.

SU DELITO: Luchar por la liberación de los negros, contra la discriminación racial, contra las vejaciones y la explotación que sufren sus hermanos de raza en los Estados Unidos. Es el "delito" que le cargan quienes gobiernan para el mal a todos aquellos que se rebelan, que luchan por la libertad.

La muerte de King ha conmovido al Mundo porque evidencia en forma alarmante hasta donde pueden llegar los ricachones racistas que controlan el poder en los Estados Unidos.

La violenta rebeldía de los negros y de todos los demócratas corienza de nuevo a estremecer la sociedad norteamericana.

La solidaridad internacional con su causa se expresa en múltiples formas.

Y nosotros, los obreros dominicanos, elevamos nuestra voz de protesta y llamamos a la solidaridad activa con toda manifestación de lucha, que dentro y fuera de los Estados Unidos, exprese el repudio a ese hecho-bochornoso.

Adoptamos esta actitud conscientes de que al sumarnos a la protesta mundial nos colocamos junto al sector más oprimido y vejado de la clase obrera norteamericana: los trabajadores negros. Y de que nos situamos de frente a los poderosos que: con hipocresía unos y con cinismo otros, dicen lamentar la muerte del líder negro, mientras preparan las bayonetas para tratar de aplastar la lucha desencadenada.

Nada han hecho los gobernantes y oligarcas de nuestra tierra en protesta por el asesinato de Luther King. Duelos interminables hubieran realizado si la acción justiciera de los pueblos hubiera terminado con la vida de Johnson o de otro magnate de la explotación imperialista. Pero Luther King era un representante de los negros explotados, un luchador por los derechos civiles de los negros que a su entender no merecía homenaje alguno.

Sin embargo, Luther King tiene en nosotros a sus representantes dominicanos, a los que encarnamos en esta tierra los intereses del trabajo y del progreso de toda la humanidad, y por eso, en esta ocasión, también damos un paso al frente:

Llamamos a todos los hombres honestos de nuestra Patria a manifestar su solidaridad con la causa de los negros norteamericanos.

Llamamos a las demás organizaciones de trabajadores a repudiar el asesinato de Luther King y a solidarizarse con la lucha de los negros norteamericanos.

Llamamos a la Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo y a los ayuntamientos democráticos del país, para que, amparados en su autonomía, declaren tres días de duelo por el asesinato de Luther King.

Que en las fábricas, en las escuelas, en las oficinas y en todos los centros de trabajo se rinda homenaje al líder asesinado y se exprese nuestro apoyo al pueblo negro de los Estados Unidos que es criminalmente colocado en la primera línea de fuego en Viet Nam, al mismo tiempo que en su propio país se le somete a la más cruel explotación.

¡MANTENGAMOS LA SOLIDARIDAD ACTIVA HASTA QUE NUESTROS HERMANOS NEGROS DE LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS CONQUISTEN TODOS SUS DERECHOS!

FEDERACION DE TRABAJADORES REVOLUCIONARIOS UNIDOS DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL (FETRUDISNA)
FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS.
FEDERACION NACIONAL DE TRABAJADORES DE LA INDUSTRIA DE LA CONSTRUCCION Y SUS AFINES (FENATRAICA)
SINDICATO PORTUARIO DE LOS MOLINOS DOMINICANOS
SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES PORTUARIOS DE ARRIMO (POASI)
SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES DE LOS MOLINOS DOMINICANOS
SINDICATO DE LA SOCIEDAD INDUSTRIAL DOMINICANA (MANICERA)
ASOCIACION DE CHOFERES INDEPENDIENTES (ASOCHOIN)
ASOCIACION DE EMPLEADOS DE LA UNIVERSIDAD AUTONOMA DE SANTO DOMINGO
SINDICATO DE TRABAJADORES TELEFONICOS
SINDICATO DE COBRADORES DE AUTOBUSES DE SANTO DOMINGO
SINDICATO DE OPERARIOS SASTRES DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL
SINDICATO DE OBREROS Y EMPLEADOS DEL AYUNTAMIENTO DEL DISTRITO NACIONAL
SINDICATO DE LA PAPELERA INDUSTRIAL
022-004-016 SINDICATO NACIONAL DE CARPINTEROS

022-004-016

El Nacional
7 April 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION               |                     |               |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------- | ------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                        |                     |               |
|                                 | 3: DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE             |               |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 7. SOURCE, CRYPTONYM                  | 8. DATE OF INFO.    | 9. EVALUATION |
|                                 | 8. DATE PROCESSED                     | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE      |
|                                 | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                  |                     |               |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.        |                     |               |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

KING, MARTIN LUTHER
201-760966
SEX M 008 ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
INFO RE PLANS FOR A MASSIVE CIVIL DIS-
OBEDIENCE DEMONSTRATION IN THE NATIONS
CAPITAL THIS SPRING

201-811911
OBC-09700
11 MAR 68
FBI

R 6803140388

![signature]

FILE IN 201-260966

PCS/ITG
/G B0704
1758 ES2

I FILE NO.
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief/Kusoda

INFO: Chief/TH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: RYBAT/FJDUST/PBRUMEN/AMFRISK Surveillance on IDEN C

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information

1. IDEN A, a cleared and witting contact, provided the following information which was obtained during a surveillance of IDEN C. The surveillance was a joint effort of IDEN A and local ODENVY. ODENVY is not aware that IDEN A has passed the information to JMWAVE.

2. On Thursday, 19 May 1966, a surveillance was instituted from Room 618 of IDEN B on adjoining Room 620, which was occupied by IDEN C and his aide IDEN D. The surveillance was initiated at 11:00 a.m. and terminated at 5:15 p.m. During the conversation between IDENS C and D and another unknown Negro male, believed to be IDEN E, references were made to the Florida Gubernatorial Race; a trip to Bimini; and several miscellaneous sex experiences.

3. On 20 May 1966 a search was made of rooms 620 and 622 after IDENS C and D moved out. Forwarded under separate cover are copies of items found in the waste baskets and dressers; a hotel bill, and a list of telephone numbers which were called on 18-19 May 1966.

4. Of special interest among these items was a note which stated, IDEN F, please call Long Distance Operator IDEN G. IDEN H, according to IDEN A, is an identified member of the Communist Party. Also, an envelope of IDEN B with the name IDEN I. This person may have been one of the occupants of the room who remained in the company of IDENS C and D overnight.

5. JMWAVE traces were negative on all personalities mentioned above as well as those names appearing in the date forwarded under separate cover. JMWAVE has carded only those personalities who reside in the JMWAVE area.

Attachment:
A.IDENS A-I u/s/c
B.ITEMS u/s/c

DISTRIBUTION:

(3)- Chief/KUSODA w/att

1. Chief, WH Division w/o att

PHILIP G. ELMARD

DATE TYPED: 15 July 1966

DATE DISPATCHED:

UFGT - 16828


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
KYBAL SECRET

ATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGT - 16828

Soparato Cover Attachment A to UFGT - 16828

IDEN A Lt. Loslie J. Van Buskirk
Chief, Criminal Intelligence
Dade County Public Safety (Metro)
Miami, Florida:

IDEN B Miami International Airport

IDEN C Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.

IDEN D Bernard Loe
This cha dormit in
Polini Lee.

IDEN E Dr. Brown
SLC S

IDEN F Dr. King, Jr.

IDEN G #71, Hemstead, N.Y.
Telephone # 487-5199
Mr. Harry Wachtell and signed Lillian 5/27/08

IDEN H Mr. Harry Wachtell

IDEN I Miss Maxine Thürston

Distribution:
(3)-
1- Chief, WH Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

ROBERT B. BROWNE, ECONOMILC...
PAINLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY
TEANEER, NEW JERSEY
RESIDENCE 214 TRTON AVE. TEANEER N.
TELEPHONE: 201 - ΤΚ 3-1716

PHONE: 800-0410
"JURIS"
MICHAEL ANTHONY GLEAN
ATTORNEY AND COUNCELLOR AT LAW...
100 MITCHELL STREET, S. W.
LEGAL ARTS BUILDING
COURTHOUSE SQUARE
ATLANTA, GA 30303

LLOR & LONG
ATTORNEYS

Motto: "God First, Others Second, Ourselves Last"

Rev. Wm. Lee Lamber, B.Th., D.D.
PASTOR, GREATER MOUNT HOPE BAPTIST CHURCH
6334-40 S. Princeton Ave. - Hyde Park 3-4708
Pres., Interdenominational Ministers Civic League of Ill.
Chairman, Exec. Board, Good Citizenship Org.
Chicago, Ill. 60621

Res. 5676 Normal Blvd.
HUdson 7-1195

PHONE RADCLIFFE 3-6798
OR 224-5710

St. Stephen's Evangelical
Lutheran Church

HARRY S. ANDERSEN
PASTOR
6500 MARYLAND AVENUE
CHICAGO 19, ILLINOIS

PHONE MO 3-5118.
DAY OR NIGHT

Noah Sarvis
PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR

1051 S.W. 64 COURT
MIAMI 55, FLORIDA
INSURANCE
INVESTIGATOR

![logo of The Teachers Voice]

MEMBERSHIP
CARD AND
DUES RECEIPT
1965-1966

NAME Ronald K. Young

№ 4273
Pat L. Tornillo, Jr.
PAT L. TORNILLO, JR.
EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

용 용 기
외신부창
중앙일보사.

Hong, Yong Ki
FOREIGN EDITOR
JOONG-ANG ILBO
SEOUL, KOREA
NEWS COMMENTATOR FOR:
JOONG-ANG RADIO-TV (JOBC)
KOREAN BROADCASTING SYSTEM (KBS)

![logo of State of New York]
Ruth V. Washington
REFEREE
STATE OF NEW YORK
WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION BOARD
80 PARK PLACE
NEW YORK CITY

Separate Cover att to UGFT-16828
FRONT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

St

-08196

6823164

A4112
133914

Five Dr. Martin 665-5116
Luther King
Call thus number
tomorrow.
Very Important!

Bell & Elaine Callowing
40 W 135 ST
NY, NY
Office AUG7593
Home T029861

CORRECTED
ADDRESS
PL 77971
Please Call
Adviser to the
Governor for
Women's Special
Events

If and when your address and/or school changes after joining CTA, please correct on post card or phone CTA (373-7535). This will insure services.

BACK SIDE of CARds.

Card


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FRIDAY

29

APR. 1966

MAR-1966
SMTWTFS
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 31

MAY 1966
SMTWTFS
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
29 30 31

-APPOINTMENTS-

8:00

8:30

9:00 Dr Hwy Jr.

9:30

10:00 Please Cale

10:30

11:00 Long Distance

11:30

12:00 Operator 71

1:00

1:30 Hemstead New York

2:00

2:30 487-5199

3:00 Mr. Harry Wachtell

3:30 Lilian

4:00

4:30

5:00

5:30


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

# Airpi; Men's Shop, Inc.
MIAMI INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.

NILA KRUPP JERRY GALINDO

MIAMI 59. FLORIDA PHONE NEWTON 5-6
AIRLINE UNIFORMS & ACCESSORIES LUGGAGE SHOES

Customer's Phone Date √-20-66
Order No. No.
Sold To
Adresa

Cash C.O.D. Charge On Acct Mdse. Ret. Pd. Out

| QUAN. | DESCRIPTION | PRICE  |
| ----- | ----------- | ------ |
|       | Cabana      | 1495   |
|       | Soer        | 12     |
|       | Huds        | 45     |
|       | Sw Truck    | 495    |
|       |             | 20     |
|       |             | 300    |
|       | X           | 3135   |
|       |             | 310    |
|       | X           | 4675   |
|       |             | 509.10 |

THANK YOU
Please keep this copy for referen TOTAL

No.122912 Rec'd by
WARCO INCORPORATED

PAGE ANALYSIS OR CHARGE REFERENCE TYPE FILE NO. NO.
DOCUMENT
SECRET
(When Filled in)

![photo of document page] 14-00000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

C MEMORANDUM

MARTIN L. KING JR

Subject: PHONE CALLS
5/18/66

From:

Date:

696-8521 111 CORA M. KINSEY 1405 NW 51 ST.

NE-4-4842 ALICE FRANCIS - 4731 NW 15 AVE

758-7650 111-MAXINE THURSTON- 2 line Rotary phone.

NE-5-1275 GEORGE A. MILLER 2535 N. RIVER DR., MIA.

NE-5-2058 PATRICIA D. REEVES (GOLDIE JACKSON) 5001 N.W. 12 AVE, M.

NE-5-4949 MRS. MARY J. McCOY 4950 N.W. 15 COURT, MIA J

888-5211 SEE OTHER SIDE

NE-3-3311 NATIONAL AIRLINES.

5/19/66

661-2511 U. OF MIAMI ASHE MEMORIAL BLDG.

M07-0006 R.W. IVAN HOY 5881 S.W. 52 TER.

377-3681 GREATER MIA. URBAN LEAGUE

758-7659 MAXINE THURSTON, 1302 N.W. 81 TERR.

374-4212 I CHALKS FLYING SERVICE, MACARTHUR CAUSEWAY

377-9445 MACKEY AIRLINES, FORT LAUD.

635-1275 SEE GEORGE A. MILLER ABOVE J

751-6692 I WCKT TELEVISION STATION

691-3311 - NAT. AIRLINES

NE-4-4842 ALICE FRANCIS 4731 NW 15 AVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

888-5211

AIRWAYS HOTEL
"
MOTEl

LENNYS HIDE A WAY. 5055 N.W. 36 ST.
L.A. WIEN INVESTMENTS
MIAMI AIRWAYS HOTEL
MIAMI AIRWAYS MOTEL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT - SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

![Diners Club logo] Diners CLUB. 10 COLUMBUS CIRCLE NEW YORK N.Y 10019

CARDHOLDER
00003 7906 9 NOVES
DR MARTIN L KING JR

ESTABLISHMENT

RECORD OF CHARGE
1700
AMT FOR PURCHASE OR SERVICE OR MOSE

301 031 488 2
51
TAXES

DATE 12/29/65
THE AMOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED HEREON WERE INCURRED BY ME AND I PROMISE TO PAY SUCH AMOUNT. TO THE DINERS CLUB, INC ONLY
275
TIPS AND MISC.

CARDHOLDER'S SIGNATURE
![signature]

17027
2026
TOTAL

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT REMIT ONLY TO THE DINERS CLUB.

---

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT - SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

CARDHOLDER
DC2203 7906 9 NOV68
DR MARTIN L KING JR

![Diners Club logo] DINERS CLUB 10 COLUMBUS CIRCLE NEW YORK, N. 10019

ESTABLISHMENT
THE DINERS CLUB
3212113884
SHERATON CHICAGO HOTEL CHICAGO ILL

DATE
RECORD OF CHARGE
AMT FOR PURCHASE OF SERVICE OR MOSE

1665

THE AMOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED HEREON WERE INCURRED BY ME AND I PROMISE TO PAY SUCH AMOUNT TO THE DINERS CLUB, INC. ONLY.
117
TAXES
CARDHOLDER'S SIGNATURE
TIPS AND MISC

TOTAL
NOTE OMIT THAN RESTAURANTS, HOTELS & UTILIZE USA SPACE BELOW FOR CREDIT APPROVAL OMIT USA & NUMBERS, WHEN APPLICABLE
CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT REMIT ONLY TO THE DINERS CLUB.

---

![handwritten text] 7239125 Herry

![handwritten text] 5. Veleen 2345044

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

CAROMULIER

MAVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

ELPINED

# Diners CLUB

10 COLUMBUS CIRCLE
NEW YORK NY 100פי

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT.
REMIT ONLY TO THE DINERS CLUB.

![Diners Club logo]

ESTABLISHMENT

RECORD OF CHARGE

1000

AMT. FOR PURCHASE OF SERVICE OR MOSE.

2027

2/03/15

THE AMOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED HEREON WERE INCURRED OF. ME AND PROMISE TO PAY SUCH AMOUNT TO THE CISCOS CLUR INC. ONLY.

51

TAXES

275
TIPS
AND
MISC.

CARDHOLOER'S RECEIPT

2026

TOTAL

REMIT ONLY TO THG DINERS CLUB

FORM 2001.

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT-SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

CAROHOLDER

EXPIRES

# DINERS CLUB

10 COLUMBUS CIRCLE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 10019

RECORD OF CHARGE

DC2203 7906 9 NOVE

DR MARTIN L KING JR

THE DINERS CLUB.
3212113884
SHERATON CHICAGO HOTEL
CHICAGO ILL

![card holder's signature]

765

AMY. FOR
PURCHASE
OP
SERVICE
OR MOSE.

2

DATE

THE AMOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED
MEREON.WERE INCURRED BY ME AND
PROMISE TO PAY SUCH AMOUNT' TO THE
OTRAS PLUG INC. ONLY

TAXES

![card holder's signature]

TIPS
AND
MISC.

TOTAL

![card holder's signature]

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT

REMIT ONLY TO THE DINERS CLUB.

5. Nelson
   2345044

32671V. t

A

2349

FORM DC 200 REV. 9/65
MADE IN U.S.A.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

W/o King:
I. Lumberly
P.M.
8:30
Use: of pain
Dean Hines
8:30
ct. / Willey Dr.
by girl Derin.

![logo of Miami International Airport Hotel]

MIAMI
International
AIRPORT HOTEL
DIRECTLY ATOP THE NEW MIAMI, AIRPORT TERMINAL
P. O. BOX 2094 MIAMI, FLORIDA 33159

Miss Mapine Hurston

dup.

* 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

AMERICANA HOTEL
7th Ave. & 53rd.51.

THE Diamond MENS SHOP. NEW YORK CITY LT 1-7200

Customer's Order No. 31741 Date. 3/16 1966
M. Robert Ellis
Address.

| BOLDDY | CASH     | C.O.D | CHARGE ACCT. | MOSE RETD. | PAID Ouf |     |
| ------ | -------- | ----- | ------------ | ---------- | -------- | --- |
| QUAN   |          |       | DESCRIPTION  | PRICE      | AMOUNT   |     |
| ...    | Ties     |       |              | 20-        |          |     |
|        | - Handes |       |              | 6-         |          |     |
|        |          |       |              | 26         |          |     |
|        | Aum Cup  |       |              |            | 130      |     |
|        | -2644    |       |              |            | 770      |     |

ALL claims must be presented accompanied by this bill

37471

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT SEE REVERSE SIDE FOR EXPENSE RECORD

![logo of diners club] Diners CLUB 10 COLUMBUS CIRCLE NEW YORK. N. Y. 10019

CARDHOLDER J.C.~203-7906-9

ESTABLISHMENT T.R. MARTIN L. KING JR

310-910-102-6

AIRPORT MENS SHOP RECORD OF CHARGE

![an empty cell in a table] 1695 AMT, FOR PURCHASE OF SERVICE OR MOSE

MIAMI: 59, FLA.

![an empty cell in a table] 17 TAXES

DATE 1/20:06

THE AMOUNT OF THE CHARGES RECORDED HEREY WERE INCURRED BY ME AND I PROMISE TO PAY SUCH AMOUNT TO THE ISSUERS ELLECTING ONLY.

![an empty cell in a table] TIPS AND MISC.

CARDHOLDERS SIGNATURE X. A.L.

![signature]

17.46 TOTAL

CARDHOLDER'S RECEIPT REMIT ONLY TO THE DINERS' CLUB


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2 on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID
2.  Destroy it dover side unless it records significant action-taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/

PROPER FILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

|     | TO           | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| --- | ------------ | ------- | ------------- | -------------- | ----------------- |
| 1.  | WF/L/N       |         | 12/4          |                | mg                |
| 2.  |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 3.  |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 4.  | WE/1ICE      |         |               | 19ay.          | em                |
| 5.  |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 6.  | WFB/C.Eellen |         | APR 13 1966   | APR 13 1966    | gb                |
| 7.  |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 8.  | Afhael       |         |               |                | am                |
| 9.  |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 10. |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 11. |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 12. |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 13. |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 14. |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 15. |              |         |               |                |                   |
| 16. |              |         |               |                |                   |

COMMENTS

WE/1 CRACO-DESORED

FBI Request

Riclarify
100-248

RID/FI

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
150-002-018

DOCUMENT DATE
3.04.4'66.
DOCUMENT NUMBER
201-760966

OWOA 19623

|               |          |
| ------------- | -------- |
| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT |
| INDEX         |          |

> [Figure] Table shows program and files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, London

INFO: Chief, WE

FROM: Chief of Station, Oslo

SUBJECT: Transmittal of Memo to Legal Attache, London

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

Please transmit to the Legal Attache the attached memo which is in response to his inquiry of 17 March 1966.

Leon S. TOZALL

Attachment: Memo re Martin Luther King, Jr.

201-960966

Distribution:
2 - COS, London w/att
2 - Chief, WE w/att

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO: ![cross reference image]

100-002 - 018
201-760466

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OH/OA-19623

DATE: 30 March 1966

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

SUBJECT: MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.

We have no information that Subject appeared at a rally in Oslo to date, nor does the Embassy have knowledge of a future visit of KING to Norway.

Any future information which becomes available will be forwarded to you. We have also taken due note of your desire that the Norwegian authorities not know of your interest in Subject's activities.

CS COPY

SECRET
att #1,4-owk-19623

100-002-018
209-76096
att to owca - 9623


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

30 NOV 1964

TO:

*   Director
    Federal Bureau of Investigation
    Attention: Mr. S. J. Turch

FROM: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Martin Luther KING, Jr.

1.  Reference is made to a communication from your Bureau dated 20 August 1964 concerning proposed travel to Western Europe of Martin Luther KING, Jr. Reference noted that subject planned to visit Rome, Italy, on 18 and 19 September 1964.

2.  This Agency has received the following information on subject from a source who is considered unreliable. Dr. Martin Luther KING met with various leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18 September 1964 in Rome. He discussed with these Italian politicians the program of demonstrations against segregation in the United States which are to be organized in Italy during the months immediately ahead. Dr. KING reportedly conferred with PCI Senators Valio SPANO and Ugo GAUTESAGHI, with PSI Senator Pealo VITELLI, and with Deputy Lucio LUZIATO of the Italian Socialist Party of Proletarian Unity (PSIUP).

3.  This Agency is unable to evaluate the above report.

4.  The information in paragraph two has been made available to your Bureau's representative in Rome.

CSC-316/02057-61

WE/L/CE/ R. Brockmeyer: ams (24 November 1964)

Distribution:

Orig - 1 - Addressee

*   1 - CI
*   1 - CI/MA
*   1 - FI (201-760266)
*   2 - WE/L/CE

Based on: OIRT-6733 dated 20 October 1964

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CS COPY

![201 70966]

30 Nov 1964


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

INFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Ophenol)

FROM:

EXTENSION: CHT-6782

DATE: 28 NOV 1964

TO: (Officer designation, room mumber, and building)

|     | DATE     |               | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| --- | -------- | ------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|     | RECEIVED | PORWARDED     |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 1.  |          |               | RC                 | 23 NOV 1962 orig intl. WAT                                                                              |
| 2.  |          |               |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3.  |          | 25 NOV 1964   | ET. CHROND         |                                                                                                         |
| 4.  | wa14     |               |                    | 1 - k                                                                                                   |
| 5.  | fore     |               | 7/1. RCC           |                                                                                                         |
| 6.  | Thoenen  |               | dt                 |                                                                                                         |
| 7.  | Bazzetti |               | ERM                |                                                                                                         |
| 8.  | CE       |               | 300 cc gt          |                                                                                                         |
| 9.  | DC/WE/t  |               |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 10. |          |               |                    | Alibwrth 201-760966- with last distroygizer Rinascita                                                   |
| 11. | CI/ICG/  | Sincee safely |                    | Could you find the correct file for this, or other disposition. Thank you. WE/t/CE/k 41794              |
| 12. |          |               |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13. |          |               |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14. |          |               |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15. | "RI/FI   |               |                    |                                                                                                         |

FORM
3-62

610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
CONFIDENTIAL

VIA COURIER POUCH

PROCESSING

| PRO.  |
| :---: |
| FUSED |

| ACTION              |
| ------------------- |
| MARKED FOR INDEXING |
| NO INDEXING REQD    |
| ONLY QUALIFIED      |
| HEADQUARTERS DESK   |
| CAN JUDGE INDEXING  |
| ABSTRACT            |
| MICROFILM           |

|  ACCOM  |
| :-----: |
| PLISHED |
|         |
|         |
|         |
|         |

TO
Chief, WE Attn: Chief, WE/4

INFO

FROM
Chief of Station, Rome

SUBJECT
KEYWAY/Support
PCI Publication of Articles by Martin Luther KING

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REFERENCE: OIRT-6733, 20 October 1964

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information.

Forwarded herewith is a mémorandum prepared for PRESLAND's information concerning an article attributed to Martin Luther KING that appeared in the 22 October issue of the PCI organ, Vie Nuove. Also forwarded is a copy of the 24 October issue of Rinascita which reprints on its last page an article by KING that, according to an editorial note, was originally published in The Nation.

Attachments: as stated.

Distribution:
3-C/WE, w/atts.

Kenneth L. Fittyon
KENNETH L. PETTIJOHN

![stamp that says: Excluded from automatic declassification schedule]

DATE TYPED
16 Nov 64

DATE DISPATCHED
NOV 17 1964

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OIRT-06783

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
100-3-4

CLASSIFICATION
CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

Attachment to: OIRT-06783
16 Νοv 64

SUBJECT: Article by Martin Luther King in Vie Nuove,
22 October 1964.

1. The article entitled "What We Negroes Ask of the President" and attributed to Martin Luther King, published on pages 15 and 17 of the 22 October 1964 issue of the Italian Communist Party organ *Vie Nuove*, is a straightforward expression of the hopes and aspirations of the American Negro population and of its determination to continue the struggle by non-violent means until full social and economic equality has been obtained. The article does not contain anything which could be considered as typical communist propaganda nor anything that seems to be directed specifically to a communist audience. The article, under King's byline, would be perfectly proper for any American publication.

2. At the beginning of the article, *Vie Nuove* includes the following editorial comment:

> The racial problem is one of the subjects that most divides the American states in this presidential election! This article, by Martin Luther King, that we published exclusively, illuminates its most dramatic aspects and expresses the requests that the colored population advances to the entire nation. It is a denunciation of the inequality of rights that goes beyond the secular racial question. The "you must respect my person" is a request that the problem of Democracy poses for everyone.

3. Despite the date of its publication the article appears to have been written some months ago. This is evident from King's reference in the article to the fact that the Civil Rights Bill was before Congress at the time he was writing the article. The Bill, it will be recalled, was enacted into law on 2 July 1964. The conclusion to be drawn-from this is that the article's appearance in *Vie Nuove* or at least, its composition by King, is not the direct result of any contacts that King may have had with PCI officials during his visit to Rome in mid-September.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# Rinascita

Settirianale fondato da Palmiro Togliatti

N. 42 - anno 21 Sabato 24 ottobre 1964 L. 100

Lotta di classe e riunificazione politica

La politica del Ventesimo

Interviste con Vecchietti Lombardi

Le decisioni di Mosca, per l'importanza del- l'avvenimento, per il peso che esso è chiamato ad avéré nelle prospettive della vita sovietica e del movimento operaio internazionale, non potevano non suscitare interrogativi, non diventare argo- niento di riflessione e di dibattito ben oltre le frontière dell'Unione Sovietica. La procedura di quelle decisioni e il modo contraddittorio, tale da lasciare ancora vaste zone d'ombra, col quale sono state comunicate. henno certo determinato è che l'affanno della crisi del centro-sinistra e del naufragio delle sue prospettive politiche im- pedisce a certi democratici e a taluni socialisti di guardare al di là dei voti delle prossime elezioni municipali, anche quando si tratta della prospet- tiva mondiale. Con il risultato, crediamo, di non veder chiaro nè quello che può accadere nel mondo, nè quello che accadrà nel municipio.

A noi spetta ribadire, anche in questa occa sione, una polizer che ci pare fondamentalar


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# Rinascita pag. 32

21 ottobre 1964

Testimonianze

# Carri armati a Jackson

di Martin Luther King

Martin Luther King Jr., lea- der del movimento integracio- nista americano e stato insi- gnito del premio Nobel della pace. Dałł'ultimo dei suoi rap- porti annual sullo stato della lotta delle popolazioni ameri- cane di colore, pubblichiamo un The Nation stralciamo la par te centrale in cui vengono af- frontati i problemi di tattica e strategia della, battaglia ancora in corso. Anche i disegni che illustrano la pagina sono ripre si da The Nation.

Per molti anni, nel passato, la-lot- ta per i diritti dei negri, è stata osta- colata da una confusa molteplicità di tattiche. Nel primo periodo del go verno Kennedy si è sostenuto che l'azione governativa era uno strumento più efficace di quella legislativa; si affermo che le leggi esistevano ma non erano applicate, e che pertanto un più energico intervento governa- tivo sarebbe bastato a determinare profondi cambiamenti.

Prima ancora che il movimento per i diritti civili impostasse una se- ria campagna in quella direzione, l'emergenza di un movimento rivolu- zionario di massa concentrò di nuo- vo l'attenzione sull'iniziativa legisla- tiva, e da allora l'istanza fondamen- tale cui l'opinione pubblica guarda è il Congreso.

Gli atti legislativi, come le sen- tenze dei tribunali, affermano un di- ritto, ma non lo attuano automatica- mente: in ultima analisi, sarà l'azione governativa a determinare l'effetto pratico delle leggi. Quanto possano essere illusori gli effetti benefici dei provvedimenti legislativi è esempli- ficato dal fatto che, da molti anni, una legge federale ha autorizzato la creazione di uffici elettorali federali per l'iscrizione degli elettori in quel- le zone in cui il diritto di voto è violato: eppure, ancor oggi nessuno di quegli uffici ha iscritto un solo elettore negro. Un esempio ancor più clamoroso di carenza governativa, come ha messo in rilievo il dottor Howard Zinn, è che nemmeno la le- gislazione sui diritti civili approva- ta nel 1866 è stata mai applicata nel Sud. Il codice penale americano, al titolo 10, sezioni 241 e 242, stabilisce che un funzionario il quale neghi a un cittadino l'esercizio dei suoi dirit ti costituzionali, o chiunque agisca con questo obiettivo, commette un delitto, ma le violazioni di questo articolo sono ben più numerose dei rari casi in cui il ministero della Giustizia ne ha invocato l'applica- zione.

Il fatto è che la legislazione fede- rale è violata nel Sud in modo cosi massiccio che non è esagera- to affermare che l'unità federale del paese è poco più di un'illusione. Per il negro del Sud è solo un tragico mito: è stato sfruttato, imprigionato e assassinato, e sebbene la legge federa- le avrebbe potuto raggiungere i col- pevoli non è stato fatto nulla per di- minuire l'oppressione di cui il negro è vittima.

Le violazioni più tragiche e fre- quenti si verificano nelle zone in cui la brutalità della polizia non ha un freno, e in cui sono in rigore leggi statali chiaramente illegali contro i negri. Molti americani bianchi del Nord non si rendono conto di quanto sia brutale il comportamento della polizia, e di quanto questo stato di cose sia generalizzato. Il Comitato per i diritti civili, dopo aver compiuto uno studio molto attento e scru- poloso, ha dichiarato che questo è

avverte questa realtà solo quando si svolgono manifestazioni negre non violente, e quindi è convinta di aver assistito a un episodio sporadico di repressione eccessiva: non si rende conto, invece, che quel tipo di com- portamento da parte della polizia è abituale, e non eccezionale.

La brutalità poliziesca con la con- nivenza o, nel migliore dei casi, tra l'indifferenza della comunità, è una esperienza quotidiana dei negri in troppe zone del Sud. I negri vivono in uno stato di polizia che, parados salmente, prospera in seno a una re- pubblica democratica. In tale situa- zione, un'occasionale denuncia del go- verno federale, seguita da un pro- cesso che si trascinerà per anni, non può essere certo ritenuta un freno efficace e anzi, spesso, è ancor peg- gio della rinuncia ad agire, perchè dimostra la futilità e la debolezza del potere federale.

Molti si domandano come mai le dimostrazioni e le lotte nel Sud ten- dono a estinguersi rapidamente do po un avvio vigoroso e una somma di eroici sacrifici: la risposta è che i negri sono stati sconfitti dalla forza bruta. Un apparato statale abituato da generazioni ad agire nella più as- soluta impunità, può ricorrere all'im- piego di qualsiasi strumento di po- tere incontrollato: un'azione legale federale, o le sporadiche e spesso inu- tili crisi di coscienza federali; non aiutano i negri in questa impari bat- taglia più di un amichevole colpetto sulla spalla.

I negri hanno trovato nell'azione diretta non violenta uno strumento miracoloso contro l'impiego della for- za bruta, ma non è uno strumento ri- solutivo. Quando la luce di migliaia di riflettori è puntata sulle violen- ze della polizia del Sud, pistole e manganelli vengono temporaneamen te ranfoderati, ma l'impudenza del costume imperante nel Sud è tale che, nonostante sia osservata dagli occhi di milioni di testimoni, la polizia continua a impiegare contro i negri strumenti barbarici come i bastoni elettrificati per il bestiame e gli idranti ad alta pressione. E quando il delitto può essere compiuto con il favore della notte, la criminalità tocca il fondo, come testimonia la uccisione con una bomba di quattro bambini di una scuola domenicale: Assassinii, mutilazioni, fustigazioni e lancio di bombe sono altre testimo nianze eloquenti.

Quando i carri armati della poli- zia di Birmingham, apparvero alla ribalta, sembrò una manifestazione grottesca ma rara di furia poliziesca locale. Nelle settimane scorse, il sin- daco di Jackson, Mississippi, si è vantato di

preparate per la prossima estate: un carro armato Thompson di 13.000 pound, con dodici uomini a bordo armati di fucili, mitragliatori e bom- be lacrimogene, tre autocarri per il trasporto di truppe, tre autoblindo con riflettori, tre autocarri pesanti con rimorchio e circa 500 uomini, oltre a una forza di riserva di truppe statali, di impiegati dell'amministra zione comunale e di pattuglie di civi li. Questo esercito locale attende le manifestazioni non violente con evi- dente ostilità e con la consueta faci- lità a far uso delle armi.

Non si può non concludere che i negri, i quali hanno dimostrato un coraggio eccezionale nella loro azio ne diretta non violenta, sono stati abbandonati dal più potente governo del mondo. Hanno subito la violenza per rivelare quanto profondo sia il loro dramma e per elevare la loro protesta: il governo non ha saputo invece venire in loro aiuto che con il minimo di coraggio e di deci- sione.

Questa contraddizione deve essere assolutamente risolta. Leggi e comita ti inter-razziali non possono trasfor mare una comunità quando coloro i quali detengono il potere locale sanno di poter ricorrere all'uso della forza mentre il potere centrale tem poreggia. Nel mondo esistono governi i quali non sono in grado di control- lare alcune zone del paese, cosi come il governo americano di cent'anni or sono non controllava le zone abi- tate dalle tribù indiane. Oggi siamo vicini all'anno 2000, e la nostra po- tenza nazionale è quasi senza limiti: eppure, il governo non è in grado di far applicare la legge nemmeno in un piccolo, polveroso villaggio del Sud.

Il governo non ha oramai altra al- ternativa che affrontare in modo del tutto nuovo il problema. Il vigore del movimento per i diritti civili è destinato ad estinguersi, perchè i negri conoscono ora la loro forza reale e non rinunceranno a ricor- rervi.

> [Figure] A cartoon depicts law enforcement behind fences pointing guns at the African American protesters.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

UNCLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

RIDIDEP
RSB

EXTENSION
DIRT-6733

DATE:
29 OCT 1964

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE RECEIVED
DATE FORWARDED
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

1. We/Support
   29 OCT 1964
   8.9 OCT 1964
   ong rt- welt
   ch
4. W-14
   29 OCT 1964
   T CHRONO
5. MORE
   RiKy
   5-6: We should antique FBI wanting to know more about the content of these reported meetings? It makes a world offer in interpretation.
7. C/WE/4/RE
   8 NOV 1964
8. C/WE/4/RE
9. WE/4/CE/RE
10. Info in attached. DIRT-6733
    being forwarded to FBI in CSCI -
    316/02051-64/
    drafted Ghor 64.
11. CI/OPS/WE
    6 6 Cb
13. WE/4/CE
15. RID/Files
    Klean file in
    100-2-4

SECRET
CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL USE ONLY
UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

VIA COURIER POUCH

PROCESSING

TO

Chief, WE Attn: Chief, WE/4

INFO

FROM
Chief of Station, Rome

SUBJECT
KEYWAY
Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther KING with Italian Leftist Personalities

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES.
For Your Information.

1. Following is a translation of a report on the subject: "The Mission of Luther KING with the Italian Left", dated 28 September 1964 and attributed to DEPLENARY/7, from Luigi PINTOR, from information coming into the editorial offices of L'UNITA. The Station received the report on 1 October 1964.

"Luther KING, noted Protestant negro Pastor and 'leader' of the anti-racist movement in the United States, met with various leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18-September in Rome. In particular, KING conferred with PCI Senators Velio SPANO and Ugo BARTESAGHI, with PSI Deputy Lucio LUZZATO, and with Senator Paolo VITTORELLI of the Italian Socialist Party of Proletarian Unity. KING discussed with the above-named politicians the program of demonstrations against segregation in the United States, which are to be organized in Italy during the months immediately ahead."

2. The same report was also received from DEDICATOR/4 who has access to the DEPLENARY establishment and thus it is not considered as confirming the DEPLENARY/7 information

(Continued)

Attachment: b/w.
Copy of a report passed to local ODENVY rep.

Distribution:
3-C/WE, w/att

OCT 20 1964

DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED

16 Oct 64

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OIRT - 06733

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

100-2-4
201-760966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
OIRT - 06733

3. Given the source of the above report, we view it with some reserve. In this connection, we noted the 19 September issue of L'UNITA, which reflected an article on KING's private audience with Pope Paul held the proceding day. According to L'UNITA, immediately after the audience, in St. Poter's Square, KING stated that "Popo. Paul was most clear on the fact that both he, personally, and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil rights". The article also states that in a press conference held at Fiumicino Airport after the audience KING said, "The Pope will shortly make a public statement on racial segregation". We have no other information at this time

4. Attached is a copy of the report which we have passed to the local ODENVY representative.

RANDOLPH A. MEDEORD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

CONFIDENTIAL
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY- Italy/USA

SUBJECT Meeting of Dr. Martin Luther King with Italian Leftist Personalities

DATE OF 28 September 1964

PLACE & DATE ACQ Italy, Rome (1 October 1964)

SOURCE An unwitting leftist oriented journalist (F) with contacts in Italian Communist Party (PCI) circles in Rome from information that was available to editorial offices of L'Unita, the PCI daily newspaper. Reports from this source over the past few years have varied from mediocre and below in quality and in accuracy. Appraisal of Content: 3.

Luther King, noted Protestant negro Pastor and "leader" of the anti-racist movement in the United States, met with various leaders of the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and of the Italian Socialist Party (PSI) on 18 September in Rome. In particular, King conferred with PCI Senators Velio Spano and Ugo Bartesaghi, with-PSI Deputy Lucio Luzzato, and with Senator Paolo Vittorelli of the Italian Socialist Party of Proletarian Unity (PSIUP)/ King discussed with the above-named politicians the program of demonstrations against segregation in the United States, which are to be organized in Italy during the months immediately ahead.

Field Comment: Given the source of the above report, we view it with some, reserve. In this connection, we noted the 19 September Issue of L'Unita, which reflected an article on King's private audience with Pope Paul held the preceding day. According to L'Unita, immediately after the audience, in St. Peter's Square, King stated that "Pope Paul was most clear on the fact that both he, personally and the Catholic Church support the cause of civil rights". The article also states that in a press conference held at Fiumicino Airport after the audience King said, "The Pope will shortly make a public staterent on racial segregation" We have no other information at this time.

CONFIDENTIAL.
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

![Note Freid d str.bution indicated by]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Prisland.
Pettyoh
Medford.

S. DEDICATOR/4

Cilla mint to CIRT-6733
16 OCTLY

wed 15/10/64 ever

Luther King, noto pastore protestante negro, e leader del movimento antirazzista degli Stati Uniti, si è incontrato il 18 settembre u.s. a Roma con diversi esponenti del PCI e del PSI. In modo particolare egli ha conferito coll'on Velio Spano, del PCI, coll'on Ugo Bartesaghi(PCI), coll'on Lucio Luzzatto del PSIUP e col senatore Paolo Vitetorelli del PSI. Il Pastore King ha discusso con loro le manifestazioni contro il segregazionismo negli Stati Uniti, che si dovrebbero organizzare nei prossimi mesi in Italia.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Attachment-DIRT-6733 SEGRETO
166164 28 SET. 1964

OGGETTO: La missione di Luther King presso le sinistre italiane
VALUTAZIONE: Ottima
FONTE: Attendibile/UU

S: lleplenary 17
R: 1Oct64

Luther King, noto pastore protestante negro, e "leader" del movimento antirazzista degli Stati Uniti, si è incontrato il 18 settembre u.s. a Roma con diversi esponenti del P.C.I. e del P.SI.

In modo particolare il King ha conferito con il Sen. Velio Spano, della vice presidenza della Commissione Centrale di Controllo del P.C.I., con l'On. Ugo Bartesaghi (P.C.I.), con l'On. Lucio M. Luzzatto del P.S.I.U.P. e con il Sen. Paolo Vittorelli del P.S.I.

Il pastore King ha discusso con i predetti uomini politici il programma di manifestazioni contro il segregazionismo negli Stati Uniti, che si dovrebbero organizzare nei prossimi mesi in Italia.

Riferita da Luigi Pintor. Notizie affluite alla redazione de "l'Unità".

100 - 2-4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)