14-00000
104-10122-10346
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

| SENDER WILL CHECK CLASS | ATION TOP AND BOTTOM |        |
| ----------------------- | -------------------- | ------ |
| UNCLASSIFIED            | CONFIDENTIAL         | SECRET |

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | DDS              |      |          |
| 2   |                  |      |          |
| 3   |                  |      |          |
| 4   |                  |      |          |
| 5   |                  |      |          |
| 6   |                  |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

Attached are copies of summaries of our operational involvement with Maheu. In addition to giving Mr. Helms the originals, I have also given copies to Mr. Houston.



FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE | DATE    |
| ----------------------------- | ------- |
| Director of Security          | 6/20/66 |

| UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET |

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions (40)
2-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET
EVES ONLY

SUBJECT: Project HARPSTAR

1.  May 1958 - FE Division initially contacted Director of Security and briefed him on Project. Basically, Project capitalized on President Sukarno's weakness for women, especially Caucasian. Because of our inability to get controlled asset close to him to deter- mine his thinking and plans, and the recent apparent success of Soviets use of a woman, believed he may let down guard and become expansive in discussion of plans with a female and accept advice that he would not ordinarily accept from a man.

2.  Object - Locate intelligent, attractive, emotionally stable, and trustworthy female who would accept assignment which would involve eventual intimate relationship with Sukarno.

3.  January 1958 - Gave Robert Maheu assignment to locate candidate. He advised that a prominent attorney and 'man about town,", could come up with a qualified woman. Maheu told he had a "client" whose business was not prosparing in an unidentified country. Felt could improve situa- tion if an attractive and intelligent female could get to him and, through feminine charm, persuade his thinking in a more favorable direction.

4. was investigated with favorable results and given CSA en ? July 1953, but not made witting of CIA interest,

5.  Candidate - a well-to-do widow, approximately 35 years old, resident of , considered highly intelligent and extremely attractive.

6.  August 1953 - Project HARPSTAR plan concurred in by COPS and DCI.

EVES ONLY
SECRET

![Excited from a.alis c... Cod  :)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
EYES ONLY

Page:

7. August 27 - Joseph Smith, FE Division, introduced to Maheu as Joseph Sims.

8. Smith emphasized need for a solid cover story and backstopping. Maheu suggests, in view of close relationship with movie colony, may induce who represents several movie interests, to set up an arrangement that would also include necessary funding mechanisms.

9. September 23 - Maheu and O'Connell, Security, met with in New York City (Hampshire House). Agreed, if he co-operative, would brief him re Agency interest and objective of Project to get maximum effort from him. He responded enthusiastically and offered his complete service and facilities to set up a secure cover mechanism. He suggested that be told of general Government interest (not CIA) at the outset due to her sharp perceptiveness which may cause her to speculate at a later date.

10. Cover Story - would commission her to perform an "on location survey" in certain FE areas for the proposed filming of "Journey to the Center of the Earth." This could be done very naturally because has the reights to the film and is contemplating shooting it in near future.

11. September 23-arrived New York City (St. Regis). Mabeu met her alone for first time and told her of Government interest. She seemed to be relieved about certain misgivings she had of assignment. (She knew true identity of Maheu, having been introduced to him socially by. She also know that he had a personal relations organization.)

11. September 23 (afternoon) - Maheu introduced "Sims" to Was given a gradual briefing on assignment, determining at various points whether she was still interested. She indicated she understood exactly what was expected of her and could leave country in 15 days.

13. September 11 - "Sims" again met with at which time she was told she would be accompanied by a female traveling companion, ( GS-12). Would ostensibly be her secretary, but would be in fact, the person she would look to for direction.

EYES ONLY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

EYES ONLY

Page 3

14. subsequently given several briefings by FE personnel, both in New York City and California. All under aliases. P. O. boxes and sterile phones were set up for communications.

15. Cover arrangements were completed by He arranged for to carry a letter of introduction from to a , his representative in Indonesia. known to Sukarno. Also arranged to have funds placed in the Indonesian branch of Twentieth Century Fox in DJARKARTA:

EYES ONLY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SEGRET
EYES ONLY

Page 4

16. Records of this Office do not reflect any of the activities of during the course of har mission. It is believed she left for Indonesia sometime in January 1959. It is known that she did meet Sukarno, but due to unfortunate timing that had him leaving his country on official business, she had little time to cultivate him; consequently, the purpose of the mission was not fulfilled. It should be noted that Sukarno took sufficient notice of her that during בט בג- official visit to the United States in June 1959, he expressed a stronz desire to see her and did.

17. The last known contact had with the Agency was in the form of a telephone call on 12 April 1961 when she called on the sterile line and talked to Hugh Tovar, who she knew as George Henry. She advised that asked her to give a party for Presi- dent Sukarno who would be in Los Angeles on 21 April 1961. She wanted to know whether Henry's people were interested in sponsor- ing this party. A negative response was given.

18. It is not known where she is or what her activities are at the present time, but presumably she is still in the Los Angales area.

EYES ONLY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# PROJECT NORFOLK

1. In connection with the official State visit of (King Hussein)
   from 16 March (1959) thru 18 April (1959) the Office of Security was
   requested to render special support during the Los Angeles and
   New York phases of the tour.

2. According to (NEA) personnel, Messrs. (Norman Paul,
   (Fred LaTrash) and William Arms, the Subject was particularly
   desirous of female companionship during his Los Angeles visit, and
   it was requested that appropriate arrangements be made through a
   controlled source of the Office of Security, in order to insure a
   satisfied visit. In addition, other supportive service, such as car
   rentals, living accommodations, etc. were required and authorized
   under (NEA) Division Project NORFOLK.

3. On 3 April (1959) Mr. Robert Maheu was asked to arrange
   a party for King Hussein at Los Angeles, California. He did this
   through Mr. , a prominent attorney
   and figure previously granted a CSA for use by FE Division.
   By prearrangement, during the course of this party, (King Hussein)
   was introduced to a part-time and.
   For the duration of (King Hussein)'s stay in Los Angeles, 3 April
   thru 7 April (1959) he and became friends.
   Accordingly, it was indicated by Mr. (Fred LaTrash,) who was
   integrated into the Stata party, that (King Hussein) desired to con-
   tinue his friendship with and that he wished to meet
   with her during his stay in New York City from 14 April thru
   18 April (1959)

4. Because of the publicity that had attended the relationship
   between and (King Hussein)in Los Angeles, the Office
   of Security was requested by (NEA) Division to facilitate the arrange-
   ments for the visit in New York City!

5. On 13 April (1959) arrangements were made to rent the
   home of a Security Office source, at Long
   Beach, Long Island, for the period 14 April thru 18 April (1959)
   as a confidential meeting place for and (King Hussein.)
   At the same time, was registered at the Hotel
   Barclay, 111 East 43th Street, New York City, under the name of
   Mrs. of El Paso, Texas. The publicity touching


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

EVES GULY

on the relationship became more pointed, some public mention had
been made of the background of and thus it became
increasingly important that the New York meeting be carefully arranged.

6. On 14 April (1959) Mr. (Fred LaTrash) and
   after appropriate security arrangements, were transported to Long
   Beach, Long Island, where the residence of
   was taken over as the meeting place between (King Hussein) and

Later the same day, by prearrangement, two Department
of State Security Agents, a New York City Police Lieutenant and
a hired chauffeur arrived with (King Hussein)
remained
at the site thru 18 April (1959) and (King Hussein) and party visited
each evening, remaining for about four to five hours.

7. During the stay at the Long Beach site,
   discussed the publicity in the case at some length with the Security
   representative. She speculated about the possible sources of certain
   personal information that she felt had been leaked to the press.
   She spoke of her depth of feeling for (King Hussain and commented
   on how Mr. had initially sought her out to serve
   as a party companion for (the King) At the time, she said she was
   unclear as to just what part Mr. wanted her to play and in
   attempting to clarify his request, said, "I am employed by
   the CIA. We want you to go to bed with him." continued
   to say that she rejected the proposal, but finally went to the party
   and that it developed that the relationship between her and (King Hussein)
   transcended what had been suggested.

8. Following the departure of King Hussein for (Jordan)
   at the request of (NEA) Division, the Office of Security assisted in
   arranging means of communication between and the
   King. From May (1959) thru October (1960,) the Security Office
   assisted the NEA Division in the handling and examination of personal
   correspondence between and the King.) The last-recorded
   action by the Security Office in this case was 10 October (1960.)

9. All personal contacts by Security representatives in the
   case were under alias and implied State Department affiliation.

10. There is no record or indication in any of the files in
    this case that involves Robert Maheu by name or reference. Maheu,
    as we understand it, never was introduced to and, as far as


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

EYES ONLY

can be determined, "fronted" for all arrangements.

11. Security Office investigation conducted variously from 25 May through 17 September (1959) of reflected no substantive derogatory information germane to the case.

EYES ONLY
3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Third party, personal informetion deletions from attached memo's re "Project HARPSTAR" and "Project NORFOLK".


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)