# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Operational MOC Amendment for Subject of 201-332676

ACTION REQUIRED: Please Record Amendment

References: A. UFGA-17702, dtd 11 Sept 1964 (AMLILAC Progress Report)

B. UFGA-17558, dtd 2 Sept 1964 (MOC)

1.  Transmitted herewith are three (3) copies of an amended MOC for Subject. This amendment has been written to provide Subject a raise in salary from $150.00 net per month to $200.00 net.

2.  Subject now has a total of three dependents other than himself as is stated in the attached MOC amendment.

> [Figure: Stamped text with the handwritten text "DOC FORWARDED W/O S/C BY RID/IAT AC 29 Sep 64"]

Attachments:
Amended MOC - H/W
IDEN Sheet - USC

Distribution:
3 - Addressee w/atts.

> [Figure: A stamp that reads "GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification"]

Andrew K. REUTEMAN

DATE TYPED: 21 Sept 64

DATE DISPATCHED: SEP 25 1964

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-17818

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-332676

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

MEMORANDUM OF ORAL COMMITMENT

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JEWAVE

SUBJECT: Engagement of IDEN A 201-332676

1.  Term and Project Charge. The Subject individual has been engaged under oral contract for use under TYPIC and is to be charged against Fill cost center. The effective date of the oral contract is 1 September 1964 and it shall continue until terminated by either party upon fifteen days actual notice.

2.  Security Approval. The appropriate security approval to utilize Subject as requested has been obtained. POA reinstated 26 June 1964 per UFGW-3997 dtd 8 July 1964

3.  Citizenship. The Subject is a foreign national and was born on 6 May 1939 at Pinar del Rio, Cuba and resides at IDEN B

4.  Compensation. Commencing on the effective date of this agreement, Subject will be paid compensation at the rate of $ 207.52 per month. Such payments to be made following completion of satisfactory service.

5.  Taxes. Subject will be obligated to pay U.S. income tax. Taxes will be deducted from the above stated paid compensation. Subject is eligible for Social Security. IDEN C Subject is married and has a total of 3 dependents other than himself. Subject's dependents are xxx residing in the U.S., U.S. possessions, Canada, Mexico, the Canal Zone, or the Republic of Panama.

6.  Quarters and/or Subsistence. The Subject: xxxx/will not be furnished quarters and/or subsistence.

7.  Operational Expenses. When properly authorized, Subject will be reimbursed for:

a. Operational travel including mileage claims for official use of his personal automobile.

b. Operational hotel expenses, meals, telephone calls, etc.

8.  Other Commitments. Bonus. With prior approval of the Chief of Station a bonus may be authorized for outstanding performance in the line of duty. The amount of the bonus will be commensurate with the risks taken and the results which were achieved; amount not to exceed $100.00 per any single bonus payment In the event of Subject's death in the line of duty, an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 will be paid to Subject's estate.

9.  Contingent Obligations. No commitments other than those stated above have been made to the Subject.

SIGNED: Frederick Daghloust
Field Contracting
Officer

REVIEWED:
Joseph L Durand
Approving Officer

REVIEWED:
Joseph Bogan
Officer

SECRET

CS COPY

att. to UFGA 17818
01-3324 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
TO UFGA-17818

IDEN Sheet

IDEN A - Juan Francisco BLANCO Fernandez

IDEN B - 6831 SW 6th Street
Miami - Florida

IDEN C - SS# 265 - 74 - 1626

SECRET

SCA to UF6A 17818 201-332676


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)