# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, JHRAVE

INFO: Chief, WF Division

FROM: JHZIP/Operational
SUBJECT: (Jose Maria LASA Irrutibeascoa)

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

AR: FYI

1. During your recent TDY to Headquarters, you requested all available information regarding a young Cuban named (LASA) who talked to Identity 1.

2. Identity 2 met with Jose Maria LASA Irrutibeascoa and Identity 1 on 2 October 1961. Identity 1, apparently, had been requested by Subject's uncle, a Cuban official in Switzerland, to meet with (LASA) who had recently departed from Cuba under a safe conduct agreement.

3. During the conversation LASA talked about his uncle, an old school friend of Identity 1 and, also, Subject's father, a minor Cuban Government official also stationed in Switzerland. Both the uncle and father were in disagreement with the CASTRO Government and there was some indication that one or both were willing to defect. Although this point was touched only obliquely, Identity 2 gathered that Subject wanted to get his father into this country with some assurance of support. The question was not asked directly and no commitments were made or implied.

4. After this relatively short talk in Identity 1's office, Subject and Identity 2 went into a conference room where he saw Identity 2 papers dealing with the organization and purpose of the DEN (which were already available) and said he would work with the students in the future. (LASA) also expressed a wish to go to Switzerland for the purpose of informing the International Red Cross group there of the inhumane treatment of Cuban political prisoners.

5. In parting, Identity 2 had a distinct impression that Subject had not really accomplished the primary objective of his visit, and as he was returning to Miami, the foregoing was passed to Identity 3.

6. For further information on Subject refer to WAVE-8368, 9 Oct 61; DIR-17475, 12 Oct 61; and DIR-23974, 14 Nov 61. Also, see copy of GAVA-1631 (Attachment 2).

Distribution:
2 - CCS, JHAVE, w/att. 1 (N.S.C.) and
w/att. 2,RR/RID and para 6.

DATE FILED: 29 Jan 1962

DATE DISPATCHED: 2 FEB 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UPOW-787

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 201-303133

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)