# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADDRESSEL CABLE SEL BELOW

DEFEATED CEN

SAS O

X ROUTINE

CCP, ADOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, EL, WE 4, POUCH FRAN 9, BONN 5, BRUN 5, MUNI 5

ATHE 6. ALL OTHER STAS 3

MULTI-ADDRESSEE CABLE

PERULZEN ZRPRIMA

65387

PARI BRUS HAGU COPE STOC OSLO MADR

CABLE SEC: IPLS POUCH CABLE TO FOLLOWING:) (WRENCH POUCH)

FRAN FROB BONN HAMB PRLN MUNI VIEN ATHE

BERN GNVA CAIR BEIR TEHE TELA RIOD SAOP

MEXI MRID SAGO MONT BUEN CARA LAPA LIMA 99

QUIT GUAT SNTO MELS TOKY HONG WATE BARC

HELS LISB MILA OTTA TRIE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

UNIT: /6/INDIA
EXT: 6267
DATE: 29 Nov 63

TO: CABLE SECRETARIAT

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SAS 8

INFO: DOP, NE, VR

INFO

PLEASE RELAY DIR 85387 TO (NEW DELHI) FOR INFORMATION.

END OF MESSAGE

29 Nov 63 22 21Z

SIG CEN

85387A

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CLOTHIN STATIONS AND BASES

FILE NO. 200-120-47

22 8553 17 032

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

ADDRESSEE CABLE INFO

CITE DIR 00001

BUBUDEN ZAPRIMA

REF: DIR 22213

1. RECENTLY CONCLUDED ECS REVIEW OF ZEPRIMA PROGRAM SHOWS THAT EFFORTS HAVE NOT ACHIEVED ANY SIGNIFICANT RESULTS AND CONTINUATION OF PROGRAM AS SUCH NO LONGE WARRANTED. MAIN REASON FOR KUBARK FAILURE IS THAT CUBAN TECNICIAN RECRUITING PROGRAM HAS BEEN MISERABLE FAILURE WHEN MEASURED AGAINST/ORIGINAL FIDEL'S OBJECTIVE OF 2000 TECES FROM WESTERN EUROPE ALONE. THOUGH CURRENT FIGURES NOT COMPLETE, WE ESTIMATE PROBABLY LESS THAN FIFTY CANDIDATES HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL AND WE ABLE CONFIRM ABOUT TEN WHO HAVE ACTUALLY MADE IT TO THE ISLAND. KUBARK SUCCEEDED IN INSERTING ABOUT THIRTY RECRUITED TECES INTO THE VARIOUS HIRING CHANNELS, BUT SO FAR ONLY TWO HAVE RECEIVED CONTRACT APPROVAL FROM HAVA.

2. CUBAN FAILURE TO RECRUIT IN SIGNIFICANT NUMBERS APPEARS DUE LARGELY TO RELUCTANCE FOREIGN MINISTRY AND FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICERS PURSUE TECH RECRUITING MISSION AGGRESSIVELY, BURLAUCRATIC INCOMPETENCE IN HAVANA, FEAR OF INFILTRATION OF HOSTILE AGENTS

CONT...

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF

INFO

PAGE TWO

TO

INFO

CITE DIR 85387

AMNU PROBABLE LOSS OF INTEREST IN THE PROGRAM ON PART OF CASTRO HIMSELF. THESE FACTORS WHICH EMERGE FROM OUR STUDY OF THE CUBAN PERFORMANCE ACCOUNT FOR LACK OF RESPONSE FROM EMBASSIES TO APPLICATIONS, LONG DELAY IN GETTING WORD BACK FROM HAVANA AND SMALL NUMBER OF TECHS ULTIMATELY HIRED. LONG TIME LAG BETWEEN INITIAL APPLICATION AND ULTIMATE APPROVAL FROM HAVA, WHICH RUNS SIX TO NINE MONTHS, EAS COST CUBANS NUMBER OF TECHS WHO WERE INITIALLY EAGER BUT SUBSEQUENTLY LOST INTEREST OR TOOK OTHER JOBS.

3. IN FACE OF FOREGOING WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE TO CONTINUE INTENSIVE SEARCH FOR ZPPRIMA CANDIDATES FOR INSERTION INTO CUBAN HIRING CHANNEL. /STATIONS WITH ACTIVE LEADS SHOULD STAY WITH THEM IN THE HOPE THEY MAY STILL BE HIRED, BUT CEASE EFFORTS TO GENERATE LEADS FROM SCRATCH. ON OTHER HAND, THERE ARE FAIR NUMBER NON BLOC TECHS IN CUBA AND IT LIKELY CUBANS WILL CONTINUE TO HIRE NEEDED TECHS ON LIMITED SELECTIVE BASIS AS THEY DID PRIOR TO ZEPRIMA PROGRAM. STATIONS THEREFORE ARE URGED TO CONTINUE BE ALERT FOR SUCH OPPORTUNITIES AND TO EXPLOIT THEM IN SAME MANNER AS ALL OTHER OPPORTUNITIES TO PLACE RESIDENT AGENTS IN CUBA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAGE THREE

INFO 85387

IN THIS CONNECTION RE NOTE THAT MOST PERUVIAN OFFICIALS RESPONSIBLE FOR RECRUITING TECES TEND TO RELY HEAVILY ON LOCAL CP STAMP OF APPROVAL OR OTHER STRONG INDICATION THAT CANDIDATE IS POLITICALLY ACCEPTABLE. LACKING THIS THEY MAY EITHER IGNORE THE APPLICATION OR REJECT IT.

4. RESPONSE OF HOST STATIONS IN IMPLEMENTING ZEPETU HAS BEEN MOST GRATIFYING. WE PROVIDED CUBANS WITH GOOD NUMBER HIGHLY QUALIFIED ENGINEERS AND TECHNICIANS WHICH THEY FOR REASONS CITED UNABLE OR UNWILLING TO ACCEPT. KUDARK HAS MADE A RESPECTABLE EFFORT TO EXPLOIT THIS OPPORTUNITY AND FACT THAT WE HAVE NOT ACHIEVED SIGNIFICANT RESULTS IS MERELY REFLECTION CUBAN CONFUSION AND INEPTITUDE WITH RESULTANT FAILURE ACHIEVE THEIR CZY GOALS.

5. DISCONTINUE USE ZAPREMA SLOG AND FILE 200-120-47.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: Cable predates C/S files. Copy may be seen in CIA reference file.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

PAGE FOUR

CITE DIR 85387

SAS/EOB

SAS/MOB

WI/5

C/FE

AC/EE

C/ME

C/WH

C/FE

WILLIAM D. O'RYAN
CAVE

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/EAS

RELEASING OFFICER
4/D/

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

![group 1 for downgrading from automatic downgrading and declassification]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)