# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
SECRET
(When Filled In)

## RECOMMENDATION FOR HONOR OR MERIT AWARD
(Submit in triplicate see HR 20-37)

### PERSONAL DATA

**SECTION A**

1.  EMP.SER.NO. 2. NAME OF PERSON RECOMMENDED (Last.First.Middle) 3. POSITION TITLE 4. GRADE 5. SD

059090 Christ David Lamar C/AP/ORD/DD/S&T 16 R

6. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT 7.OFFICE EXT. (If has) 8. STATION

ORD 3486 X HEADQUARTERS FIELD (Specify location)

9. HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, State, ZIP Code) 10. HOME PHONE 11. CITIZENSHIP AND HOW ACQUIRED

6212 Maiden Lane, Bethesda, Md., 20034 656-2127 USA, Birth

12. RECOMMENDED AWARD 13. IF RETIRING. DATE OF RETIREMENT 14. POSTHUMOUS

Intelligence Medal of Merit 30 November 1970 YES X NO

15. NAME OF NEXT OF KIN 16. RELATIONSHIP 17. HOME ADDRESS (No., St., City, State, ZIP Code) 18. HOME PHONE

Wilma M. Christ Wife 6212 Maiden Lane, Bethesda, Md. 656-2127

**SECTION B RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR HEROIC ACTION OR ACCEPTANCE OF HAZARD**

19. WERE YOU AN EYEWITNESS TO THE ACT

YES NO

PERSONNEL IN IMMEDIATE VICINITY OR WHO ASSISTED IN ACT OR SHARED IN SAME HAZARD:

20. FULL NAME 21. ORGN. TITLE 22. GRADE 23. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT-

LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN ACT:

24. FULL NAME 25. AWARD RECOMMENDED

CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH ACT WAS PERFORMED:

26. LOCATION 27. INCLUSIVE DATES 28. TIME OF DAY

29. PREVAILING GEOGRAPHIC CONDITIONS AND OBSTACLES ENCOUNTERED

> RETURN TO CIA Background.Use Only Do Not Reproduce

30. DATES FOR WHICH AWARD RECOMMENDED 31. ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED 32. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT

YES NO YES NO

**SECTION C RECOMMENDATION FOR AWARD FOR ACHIEVEMENT, SERVICE, OR PERFORMANCE**

33. DO YOU HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

YES NO

34. OFFICIAL ASSIGNMENT OF PERSON RECOMMENDED AT TIME OF SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

Chief, Applied Physics Division

35. COMPONENT OR STATION (Designation and location)

Office of Research and Development

36. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ASSIGNED POSITION..

Direct efforts of 10 professional research and development scientists.

37. INCLUSIVE DATES FOR WHICH RECOMMENDED 38. ASSIGNMENT COMPLETED 39. NOW IN SAME OR RELATED ASSIGNMENT

Nov. 1950 - Nov. 1970 X YES NO YES NO

PERSONNEL WHO ASSISTED OR CONTRIBUTED SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE SERVICE OR PERFORMANCE

40. FULL NAME 41. ORGN. TITLE 42. GRADE 43. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT

LIST ANY OF THE ABOVE PERSONS GIVEN AN AWARD OR RECOMMENDED FOR AWARD FOR PARTICIPATING IN THE PERFORMANCE

44. FULL NAME 45. TYPE OF AWARD

FORM 600 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
9-68

SECRET

![group I information]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECTION D

(When Filled In)

## NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION

Award for Heroic Action or Acceptance of Hazard: Was act voluntary? Describe why act was outstanding, and if it was more than normally expected. Explain, why, and how. If an aerial or marine operation, describe type and position of craft, crew position of individual, and all unusual circumstances. Indicate results of the act. Enclose unclassified citation.

Award for Achievement, Service, or Performance: State character of service during period for which recommended. (Give complete description of administrative, technical, or professional duties and responsibilities if not covered in Section C; include dates of assignment and relief.) What did the individual do that merits the award? Why was this outstanding when compared to others of like grade and experience in similar positions or circumstances? If appropriate, include production records and assistance rendered by other persons or units. What obstacles were encountered or overcome? Indicate results of achievement, service, or performance. Include reference to Fitness Reports, Letters of Commendation, or other documentation already on file which supports this recommendation. Enclose unclassified citation.

Mr. David L. Christ is recommended for the Intelligence Medal of Merit in recognition of his career of especially meritorious service which has contributed significantly to the missions of CIA.

Mr. Christ joined CIA in November of 1950 as the first research and development electronics engineer in what has evolved as TSD. He created an Applied Physics Branch setting high standards for himself and the R&D engineers he recruited. His accomplishments included the anti-disturbance mine and the time pencil, both of which are still Agency stock items, and an IR beacon. As a pioneer in audio surveillance devices, he recognized very early that the use of systems concept would be most productive in meeting Agency needs. As part of his development program, his efforts led to the establishment of specialized contract facilities such as Baird Atomic which in 1953 was the first Agency source of transistorized equipment.[^4]

In early 1957, Mr. Christ was made Chief of what is now the Audio Operations Branch of TSD and, realizing that a drastic upgrading of the caliber of field technicians was required, began aggressively recruiting and training graduate engineers. His high standards and efforts in this area are reflected in the fact that the majority of TSD Audio mid-management personnel were recruited by him. In September 1960, he and two associates were apprehended while on an operation in

CONTINUED ON ATTACHED SHEET

46. ENCLOSURES (List individually) IF ORIGINATOR IS NOT AN EYEWITNESS OR DOES NOT HAVE PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE ACT OR PERFORMANCE. ATTACH AFFIDAVITS OF EYEWITNESS OR INDIVIDUALS HAVING PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF THE FACTS.

1. PROPOSED CITATION

2. 
3. 
47. RECOMMENDATION INITIATED BY

Robert M. Chapman

Robert M. Chapman

SECTION E RECOMMENDATION FORWARDED THROUGH OFFICIALS CONCERNED FOR THEIR INFORMATION

50. 
R CAREER SERVICE
HEAD OF
(Career service of nominee)

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

Carl E. Duckett, Deputy Director for Science and Technology

DATE

51. 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CAREER SERVICE

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

Carl E. Duckett, Deputy Director for Science and Technology

DATE

52. 
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF OPERATING COMPONENT

TITLE AND SIGNATURE

Carl E. Duckett, Deputy Director for Science and Technology

DATE

SECRET

48. TITLE AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE MAKING RECOM-
    MENTION

Director of Research and Development

49. DATE

2 NOV 1970

[^4]:  There is a superscript 24 next to the word equipment, I assume it is a footnote, but the text doesn't have a footnote section. Provide assistance with this ambiguity.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Section D (Cont'd)

a denied area. His exemplary conduct and personal courage during the resulting two and one-half years incarceration permitted the maintenance of a very difficult cover situation and successful extraction of all three men.

Upon his return, Mr. Christ joined the Office of Research and Development soon after its inception, assisting in the definition and establishment of the various divisions. Under his early guidance, the over-the-horizon radar program developed finally into an operational system. His sensitivity to the needs of Agency operational elements based upon his experience, his technical expertise and his dedicated desire to broaden the technological capabilities of the Agency precipitated his development of a major coordinated program of accelerated R&D to provide the clandestine services with a number of new audio surveillance techniques of which the laser probe is an example, and his conception and direction of the Microtechnology R&D program. Within this program, the success of the micro- power transistor led to the award of Medals of Merit to two scientists under his supervision. Other progeny of the micro- technology concept are three novel intelligence gathering systems to function in the air, in space, and in the sea environments, one of which is approaching operational status. Mr. Christ has also been responsible for pioneering efforts in the area of Audio Surveillance Countermeasures, first pro- posing the application of computers to the problem.

Mr. Christ's imaginative leadership and inspiration to those working with him, his broad scope of interest, his resource- fulness, and philosophical devotion to the cause of the Agency and the United States have provided this Agency with an individual whose unique efforts and accomplishments over his 20 years service are worthy of this recognition.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)