14-00000
104-10180-10138
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND FCORD SHEET

FROM

TSD/SAB
4200 Aain. Bldg.

| TO           | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED/FORWARDED | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| ------------ | -------- | ----------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1. AC/TSD/TA |          |                         |                   |
| 2.           |          |                         |                   |
| 3. TSD/SRS   |          | 28 JUN 1960             |                   |
| 4.           |          |                         |                   |
| 5. WH/4/FI   |          | Coordinated by phone    |                   |
| 6.           |          |                         |                   |
| 7. RI/DP     | 1308 L   | 28 JUN 1960             |                   |
| 8.           |          |                         |                   |
| 9. TSD/SRS   |          |                         |                   |
| 10.          |          |                         |                   |
| 11.          |          |                         |                   |
| 12.          |          |                         |                   |
| 13.          |          |                         |                   |
| 14.          |          |                         |                   |
| 15.          |          |                         |                   |
| 16.          |          |                         |                   |
| 17.          |          |                         |                   |
| 18.          |          |                         |                   |

| COORDINATING OFFICERS |          |
| --------------------- | -------- |
| NAME                  | BY PHONE |
| Ralph Sechafer        | WH/4/FI  |

ENCLOSURE

ABSTRACT

INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED

FORM

COMMENTS

PRIORITY

RECORD COPY

PRIORITY

| AUTHENICATING OFFICER         |                 |
| ----------------------------- | --------------- |
| NAME                          | TITLE           |
| (Flendiwon) 03 COLIN C. REID. | C/TSD/SAB       |
| RELEASING OFFICER             |                 |
| NAME                          | TITLE           |
| (Robert K. CRAVEN)            | AC/TSD/TA       |
| FILE NUMBER                   |                 |
| 08 201/274049)                |                 |
| DOCUMENT CATE                 | DOCUMENT NUMBER |
|                               | H-3523          |

!
:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# PRIORITY

TO : Chief of Station, Havana

FROM : Chief, KURIOT

SUBJECT : AQUATIC/Operational of
SW Supplies for AMTRE-1

REFERENCE : JAVA - 4089, 17 June 1960

201(274049)8

DATE 23 JUN 190

RF: 403-CCC
HARSO FOR INDE GING
NO MORING REQUIRED
LY QUAL13 12 OPLY

1. The SW supplies and instructions needed to establish two-way SW correspondence with AMIRE-1 are transmitted herewith. We realize that some of the instruction forms and supplies which are being transmitted are duplicates of those sent to the Station in support of other operations. However, in order to facilitate the handling of each operation, the supplies for each are furnished as a complete unit. This will preclude the need for borrowing from one agent's supplies to outfit another.

2. AMIRE will write to the Case Officer, using carbon system $39337. Two unused sheets of carbon #39337 should be issued to the agent for this purpose. He should be told to store them separately to avoid accidental loss of his writing system. His carbon system is developed by means of tablet #30607. A supply of the developer material, in quantities sufficient for training purposes, accompanies this dispatch.

3. According to the WH operational plan, SW messages written by AMIRE-1 will be mailed to accommodation addresses in various Latin American countries. In accordance with that, KURIOT will provide the appropriate (WH Field Station) 28 with the materials necessary for developing the operational messages.

4. AMIRE-1 will develop the SW messages he receives by means of pill 99 ($58838.) He should be issued twenty pills $58838 for that purpose. It is recommended that the agent be told to hide his developer materials in a safe place. This should not present much of a problem because (the pills are so 99 small). We do not generally recommend that (pills be camouflaged as medicines). Even in cases where the SW ingredient (does have a bona fide medicinal usage,) the concentration represented by the SW pill would usually be in excess of the 99 normal dosage, and thus there would be a danger of having an unwitting person use them by accident. If the Case Officer feels that for operational reasons it is desirable (to camouflage them as medicines) they should only be kept in a bottle which is clearly marked (FOR EXTERNAL USE ONLY)

5. According to the operational plan, the Jace to agent 9: messages will be prepared for the Area Division by KURIOT at Headquarters. The Area Division will pouch the SW messages (as "blank" sheets of stationery) to the appropriate Field Station for application of the cover test and mailing.

6. The AMIRE-1 Case Officer should familiarize himself with the accompanying supplies and instructions before any attempt is made to train and issue supplies to the agent. Experience has shown that it is advisable to plan for two or three short (2 hour) agent training sessions scheduled over a period of days, rather than to attempt to cram the training into one long session.

7. Special attention should be given to planning the cover correspondence. It is usually recommended that the agent use (false name and return address) on his SW messages to the Station, thereby (dis-associating himself) completely from his SI reports once they are in the tail channel. This requires that the correspondence be fictional, and entails a certain amount of skill on the part of AMIRE-1 in fabricating; apparently (innocent correspondence) we have found that the use of a (false postal identity) frequently provides the agent with considerable psychological reassurance during the course of the operation.

3. The cover/

![photo of a form]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

## SECRET

3.  The cover correspondence must in no way appear to be different from the bulk of mail ordinarily found in the channel being used. It should contain no information which could be viewed as suspicious in any way. The external aspects of the correspondence must be innocuous in all aspects if the SW is to be expected to provide any level of security.

9.  We have found that the reliability of any SW system depends nearly entirely on the care with which it is used. Please stress the need for careful writing techniques in your agent training sessions.

10. The following supplies and instructions are transmitted in support of the SW operation:

a. Standard Form (#1059-CWT) which describes in detail how to write with a carbon sheet.

b. One carbon sheet (#2010), labeled (DEMONSTRATION CARBON) is to be used to demonstrate the principles of (carbon) writing. The development process for this system can be carried out in the agent's presence.

c. One bottle (100 ml.) of developer (#20509) which will develop the demonstration carbon writing.

d. Instruction (Form/H-16029) describing the development of the (DEMONSTRATION CARBON).

e. (Three carbon sheets #39337) The one labeled (PRACTICE CARBON) is to be used in training and is to be retained by the Station. (Two) are to be issued to the agent. The agent should not be allowed to witness the development of this system, nor should he be shown the message after development.

f. Instruction (Form II-36037) specific instructions for the development of carbon system #39337.

g. Twenty pills (#30607) to be used to develop practice and real messages written with carbon (#39337).

h. Two practice messages written with AM/IRE's ingoing SW system which he should use to practice his development technique.

i. (Twenty-five pills #56838) which AM/IRE will use to develop the SW messages he receives. Two or three (of these pills) should be used in training. (Twenty of the remaining pills) should be issued to the agent.

j. Instruction (Form FR-25058) instructions for the use of developer #56838.

k. One copy of the "Station Maintenance of SW Supplies" form.

l. Miscellaneous items such as (cotton, swab sticks, and blotters;) items generally useful for SW processing.

11. You will note that two different kinds of (carbon sheets) have been submitted with the supplies. One is labeled (DEMONSTRATION CARBON). This should be used in the practice session only. It should be used to demonstrate (carbon) writing techniques to the agent. This system can be developed in the agent's presence. The other carbons submitted (#39337) constitute the agent's operational sending system (one sheet of carbon #39337) has been labeled (PRACTICE CARBON). After the agent has mastered the use of the (DEMONSTRATION CARBON) he should be given an opportunity to write with the (PRACTICE CARBON). It is very important that the Case Officer have the chance to critique the agent's SW writing technique with the actual system which the agent will use. However, the agent should not/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

99
should not be alloved to witness the development of liis operatic: system nor be shown the vessage after development) The developm carbon 99
39337 should be carried out at the Station. If the Case Officer that the
training messages written with the operational (PRACTICE CARBON)19 that
the sugent's technique is poor, he should use (photographs of the ed
messuies to point out to the agent those areas where improvement. Lded,
or he should just discuss it verbally.

12. The Station should retain the GEMONSTRATION CARBON) thr CTICE 99
    CARBON, and the rest of the supplies. Please bear in mind that developed
    messages and working materials should be treated as classified.

13. Please do not hesitate to request additional help from 1 as
    needed.

for Hieman M. Prusisto
JCANIA H. MANESTI::

Enclosures: (1 Box & 1 Env)
1. Supplies & Instructions
2. Supplies

22 June 1960

Distribution:
3 - CO3, Havana, v/cnclo a/s

✓RI, w/o encls
1-TSD/SR3, v/o encls
2-WII/4/FI, v/o cacls
1 - TSD/SAB, v/o encls

TSD/CAD JIManestrick)(2922):gke

03

![photo of stamp] OCOPY
2360
Ex. 3523
CLASSIFICATUE
SECRET
![photo of a form] 3 of 3
9/12/


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)