# INFORMATION FOR THE SECURITY FILE

TO : Chief, Personnel Security Division Date: 1 July 1965

FROM : Chief, Interrogation Research Division IRD#: 21642

SUBJECT: SWENSON, Harold Francis SF #: 73086

CATEGORY A: 1. Foreign relatives residing in foreign countries.

2. Foreign relatives (non-US citizens) residing in the United States.

3. Relatives residing in foreign countries other than U. S. Government connected

CATEGORY B: 1. Any relatives employed by foreign governments foreign owned firms or foreign intelligence organizations.

CATEGORY C: 1. Foreign social acquaintances residing in foreign countries.

2. Foreign social acquaintances (non-US citizens) residing in the United States.

3. Social acquaintances other than U. S. citizens or Government connected residing in foreign countries.

CATEGORY D: 1. Any acquaintance employed by a foreign government, foreign owned firm or foreign intelligence organization.

CATEGORY E: 1. Close Agency acquaintances.

CATEGORY F: 1. Current roommates.

CATEGORY G: 1. By whom recommended.


| CATEGORY | NAME(citizenship) | ADDRESS   | EMPLOYMENT | RELATIONSHIP TYPE ASSOCIATION TYPE CONTACT |
| -------- | ----------------- | --------- | ---------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| A        | None              |           |            |                                            |
| B        | None              |           |            |                                            |
| C        | None              |           |            |                                            |
| D        | None              |           |            |                                            |
| E        | Bob Sallgren      | Arlington | CIA/I+R    | *former* *supervisor* Friend & content     |
|          | Jack Flynn        | Bethesda  | CIA/WH/C   | Friend & college                           |
| F        | Al Rodriguez      | Bethesda  | CIA/OTR    | Friend & colleague                         |
| F        | None              |           |            |                                            |



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

WH/C #65-200
10 May 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/FI/INT/IE

SUBJECT: Foreign Intelligence Officers in Liaison with CIA in the United States

REFERENCES:

A. Your Memo dated 14 April 1965, Subject as above.

B. SAS Memo #64-96 dated 5 February 1964

1. The following information is submitted per your reference A which has been reported previously in reference B to the Director of Security.

Name: Colonel Carlos LUNA

Position: Argentine representative to the Security Committee of the OAS, Washington, D. C.

Nationality: Argentine

Background: Age, 49. Born Argentina. Wife is Argentine. Senior Colonel in the Argentine Army. Career Army Intelligence officer. Formerly an officer assigned to the Secretaria de Informaciones del Estado (SIDE), the senior Argentine Intelligence Service with which we maintain official liaison.

The Argentine service has assigned officers to the OAS Security Committee (at Washington, D. C.) at our official request. He replaced Lt. Col. Francisco RAMIREZ and has almost finished his tour here. Estimated time of departure from Washington, D. C. in July 65. He was assigned to the OAS Security Committee by the Argentine Army and the Argentine Intelligence Service (SIDE).

CIA Contacts: Harold F.: Swenson, WH/C/SP
Raford W. Herbert, DC/WHD #30061
John Wilson, DC/WH/2 #104.057

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

- 2 -

Frequency of Meetings: Occasional. No more often than once per month as a rule.

Place of Meetings: At homes of above listed officers or at restaurants.

2, The above contact stems from a past association, is only semi-official and in each instance covered by a Memorandum of Record to WH Division.

Harold F. Swenson
WH/C/SP

cc. Deputy Director for Plans
Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DDP
1 - WH/C/ESEC
1 - Chrono

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)