14-00000
104-10194-10017 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: VITALE, GUY
OP FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: PERSONNEL MATERS OUTSIDE TIME
FRAPLE

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 3:30 25628    |               | GAETON FOU               | ![signature]                    |
| 20 AUG 1978   |               | HARDWAY/FONZI            | ![signature]                    |
| 0950          |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

VITA
TALE, GUY
TERMINATED D


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1 SERIAL NUMBER 2 MAME (1st-time-Middle)

003620 VITALE, GUY

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

RETIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER THE CIA

RETIREMENT CIA & DISABILITY SYS

6. FUNDS
   X

CP TO V

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
   DDP/WH

WH/COG

OPERATIONS BRANCH

WH SECTION

11 POSITION TITLE

INTELLIGENCE ASST

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDALE 14.1.B. etc.)

GS

18. REMARKS
    MONTH DAY YEAR

02 28 69

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO 8 LEGAL AUTHORITY [Completed by. Offre of
   CHARGEABLE Personnel]

9235 0620 P.I.. 33-643

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION Sect. 233

WASH., D. C.

12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

1685 D

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE

0301.26 08 6 $ 8984

Last working day is 28 February 1969.

1152 telecoord. w/Paul Geidel, R.D. dmw 3/3/69

1 - Finance

13A. SIGNATURE OF REQUISTING ONICIAL DATE SIGNED 188 SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

Henry L Berthold

C/WH/Personnel

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20 EMPLOY 21 OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23 INTEGREE 24. MODTRS 25 CATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27 DATE OF LEI

4510

28 NTE EXPIRES 29 SPYCIAL 30 RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA 33 SECURITY 34 SEX

REFERENCE

35. VFT. PREFERENCE

36 SERY COMP. GATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAR DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46 OP APPROVAL

FORM

3-07 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET

GROUP I

EXCLUSED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWN
AND BECLASS cation


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

SECRET

DATE PREPARED

17 Feb 69

1 SERIAL NUMBER

2 NAME (Last-First-Middle)

003620 - VITALE, GUY

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RETIREMENT (VOLUNTARY) UNDER THE CIA

RETIREMENT - CIA & DISABILITY SYS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED

MONTH DAY YEAR

02 28 69

7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO
   CHARGEABLE

REGULAR

8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
   Personnel)

9235 0620

P.L. 93-643

Sect. 233

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

6 FUNDS

X V TO V V TO CP

CF TO V

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/WH

WH/COG

WASH., D.C.

OPERATIONS BRANCH

WH SECTION

11 POSITION TITLE

INTELLIGENCE ASST

12 POSITION NUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

1685

D

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, i.e, etc.)

(S)

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16 GRADE AND STEP

17 SALARY OR RATE

GS 0301.26 08 6 $ 8984

18. REMARKS

Last working day is 28 February 1969.

1152 telecoord. a/Paul Seidel, R.B. - dimw 3/3/69

*INTEL ASST assuming Intel ANALYST SLOT #

1 - Finance

18A SIGNATURE OF REGULATING OFFICIAL

DATE SIGNED

Henry L. Berthold

C/WII/Personnel

17 Feb 60

18B SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER

DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODES

CODE CODE

NUMERIC ALPHABETIC

22 STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. MDOTAS 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27 DATE OF LEI

CODE CODE

MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

45/10

28

NTE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL

REFERENCE

30

RETIREMENT DATA

CODE

MO. DA. YR.

1-CSC8

2-DICA

3-DIS

31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

DATA CODE

TYPE MO. DA. YR.

EOD DATA

33. SECURITY 34 SEX

REQ. NO.

35 VET PREFERENCE 36 SERV. COMP. DATE 37 LONG COMP DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEC/HEALTH INSURANCE 40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CODE CODE HEALTH INS. CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA

CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE

0-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1-YES 1-YES

1-NO BREAK IN SERVICE 2-NO 2-NO

2-BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 1 YEARS)

3-BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 1 YEARS)

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION 46. O.P. APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION

3-67

P SECRET

GROUP 1

EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING

AND DECLASSIFICATION

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

JLB: 10 MAR 69

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CEF

| 1 SERIAL NUMBER | 2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE) |
| --------------- | -------------------------- |
| 003620          | VITALE GUY                 |

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RETIREMENT VOLUNTARY UNDER CIA
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

| 4 EFFECTIVE DATE | 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT |
| ---------------- | ------------------------ |
| 02 28 69         | REGULAR                  |

| FUNDS   | 7 Financial Analysis No Chargeable | 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY |             |
| ------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ----------- |
| X       | V TO V                             | V TO CF                        | P.L. 88-643 |
| CF TO V | CF TO CF                           | SECT. 233                      |             |

| 9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS | 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------- |

11. POSITION TITLE

INTELLIGENCE ASST

14. | CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. 18 etc.) | 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES |
    | ------------------------------------- | ---------------------- |
    | GS                                    | 0301.28                |

| 12 POSITION NUMBER | 13 SERVICE DESIGNATION |
| ------------------ | ---------------------- |
| 1685               | D                      |

| 16 GRADE AND STEP | 17 SALARY OR RATE |
| ----------------- | ----------------- |
| 08 8              | 8984              |

18 REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FORM 1150 Use Previous Edition


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

28 FEB 1069

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Guy Vitale

THROUGH : Head of CS Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Approval of Request for Voluntary Retirement

1. I am pleased to inform you that your request for voluntary retirement under the CIA Retirement and Disability System has been approved by the Director of Central Intelligence.

2. Your retirement will become effective 28 February 1969 and your annuity will commence as of i March 1969. The annuity is payable on the first day of the month following that for which it accrued. You may be assured that every effort will be made to expedite delivery of your first check following completion of the administrative process- ing required to effect your retirement.

3. You will receive a lump-sum payment for your accrued annual leave up to 30 days or for whatever amount of leave credit you carried over from the last calendar year if that amount is more than 30 days.

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Fersonnel

Distribution:

0 - Addressee

1 - D/Fers

1 - OP Files

1 - Soft File

1 - ROB Reader

OP BSD ROB/PJSeidel:jef

(27 February 969)

SECRET

![seal]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
(khen Filled In)

CERTIFICATION OF SEPARATING EMPLOYEE Name (Last-First-Middle)

VITALE, GUY

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD - ATTACH TO OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

I hereby acknowledge the receipt of the following forms and/or information concerning my separation from CIA as indicated by check mark:

1. Standard Form 8 (Notice to Federal Employee about Unemployment Compensation).

2. Standard Form 55 (Notice of Conversion Privilege, Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance).

3. Standard Form 56 (Agency Certification of Insurance Status, Federal Employers' Group Life Insurance Act of 1954).

4. Standard Form 2802 (Application for Refund of Retirement Deductions).

5. Form 2595 (Authorization for Disposition of Paychecks).

6. Applicable to returnee (resignee from overseas assignment).

I have been advised of my right to have a medical examination before my separation from this Agency and of the importance of such a medical check to my health and well-being.

Appointment arranged with Office of Medical Services.

Appointment for Office of Medical Services examination declined.

7. I have been informed of "conflict of interests" policy of the Agency and foresee no problem in this regard concerning my new employment.

8. Form 71 (Application for Leave).

9. CSC Pamphlet 51 (Re-employment Rights of Federal Employees Performing Armed Forces Duty).

10. Instructions for returning to duty from Extended Leave or Active Military Service.

Signature of Employee Date Signed

28 Feb. 69

Address (Street, City, State, Zip Code) Correspondence

1730 'H' st., N.6. West. D.C.

Overt

Covert

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

TO:
(Check)
*   CHIEF, RECORDS AND CONTROL
*   CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION
*   CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For action)

ATTN:
Chief Support Staff

REF:
Fotirement Debriefing

SUBJECT
VITALE, Guy

DATE
18 February 1969

FILE NUMBER
11326

LUPLOYEE NUMBER
003620

ID CARD NUMBER

BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED

DISCONTINUED

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS
(ОРИ 20-800-11)

CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORDS
(оги 20-900-11)

A. TEMPORARILY FOR________DAYS

EFFECTIVE DATE CОВ________

DATE (33 of COR)
FROM FOD

B. CONTINUING AS OF COB

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(HHB 20-7)

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(NH820-7)

ASCERTAIN THAT________W-2 BEING ISSUED.
(HHB 20-11)

NA

RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS.

Ок

DO NOT RITE IN THIS BLOCK - FOR CCS INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
COVER: (HR-240-20)

SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER
RESPONSIBILITY. (HR-240-20)

SUBMIT
FORM 2688-
FOR HOSPITALIZATION CARD

REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY

COVER HISTORY:
Oct 49 - Jan 57 Hqs/Overt
Jan 57 - Mar 60 Greece/DAC
Kar 60 - Present hqs/DAC

FORWARDING ADDRESS: UNKNOWN

ENPLOYFENT ADDRESS: UNKNOWN

SUBJECT IS TO INDICATE CIA AS PLACE
OR EXPLONTENT FOR ENTIRE PERIOD,
BUT IS NOT TO REVEAL SPECIFIC PLACES
OR LOCATIONS OF COVER ASSIGNENTS.

RF/kas

DISTRIBUTION: COPY 1 - RCD
COPY 2 - OPERATING COMPONENT
COPY 3 - D/DS
COPY 4 - OL/TELSVC
COPY 5 - CCS - CHRONO
COPY 6 - CCS - FILE

FORM 1551 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
8-68

SECRET

CHIEF, OFFICIAL COVER, CENTRAL COVER STAFF
(13-20-43)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SOF 20 FEB 69

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

003620 VITALE, GUY

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

02 23 69 REGULAR

6. FUNDS X V TO V V TO CF 7. Financial Analysis No. Chargeable 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

CF TO V CF TO CF

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

9235 0600 0000 PL 88-643 SECT. 703

DDF/WH WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. 18. etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

08

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hanle's 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE
    Code
    CODE
    CODE
    Code
    MO
    DA
    YR
    MO
    DA
    YR
    MO
    DA
    YR

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL REFERENCE 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION DATA CODE 32. Correction/Cancellation Date 33. SECURITY REQ NO 34. SEX
    MO
    DA
    YR
    CODE
1. CSC
2. CIA
3. OPA
   CODE
   TYPE
   MO
   DA
   YR
   EOD DATA

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE
1. NONE
2. 5 PT
3. 10 PT
   MO
   DA
   YR
   MO
   DA
   YR
   CARE
   PERS
   TEMP
   CODE
1. WAIVER
2. YES
   HEALTH INS. CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE
1. NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
2. BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 183)
3. BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 183)
   CODE
   FORM EXECUIED
   CODE
   NO. TAX EXEMPWONS
   FORM EXECUIED
   CODE
   NO. TAX
   STATE CODE
1. YES
2. NO
1. YES
2. NO

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM 1150 Use Previous Edition
5-66 Mfg. 10-67

SECRET FYD

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]
(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

14-00000

SECRET

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

DATE PREPARED

7-FEBRUARY 1969

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2 NAME (Last-First-Middle)

003620 VITALE, GUY

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DESIGNATION AS A PARTICIPANT IN THE MONTH DAY YEAR REGULAR

CIA RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM 02 23 69

6. FUNDS 7. COST CENTER NO. (CHARGE 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of
   Prevention)
   X TO V CF TO V CF TO CF AMT

9235 - 0620 PL S3-643 Sect. 203

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH WASHINGTON, D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. FR. F4.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

S $

18. REMARKS

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER DATE SIGNED

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. TOUR CODE 24. HOURS 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF SERVE 27. DATE OF LEAVE
    CODE CODE CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

28. RTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE DATA CODE REQ NO
    MO. DA. YR. CODE
    1-104
    EOD DATA
    3-FIC8 2
    5-NOHE

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEDERAL HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CODE CODE HEALTH INS. CODE
    0-NONE 1-518 1-YES
    1-5 PT
    2-10 PT

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE CODE NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
    0- NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
    1- NO BREAK IN SERVICE 1-YES 1-YES
    2- BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YEARS; 2-NO 2-NO
    3- BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS)

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
6-53
OP-1
1-66

SECRET

DATE APPROVED

13 FEB 69

![signature] INCLUDED DOWNGRADING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Mr. Guy Vitale
1730 H Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C. 20006

17 APR 1969

Dear Mr. Vitale:

As you bring to a close more than twenty-six years of service to your country, I want to join your friends and co-workers in wishing you well and hoping that you find the years ahead filled with enjoyment and satisfaction.

It takes the conscientious efforts of many people to do the important work of this Agency. You leave with the knowledge that you have personally contributed to our success in carrying out our mission. Your faithful and loyal support has measured up to the high ideals and traditions of the Federal service.

May I express to you my appreciation and extend my best wishes for the years ahead.

Sincerely,

Richard Helms
Director

Distribution:
0 - Addressee
1 - ER
1 - C/EAB/OS
1 - D/Pers
1 - OPF
1 - ROB
1 - ROB Reader

Originator: Director of Personnel

Concur: SIGNED 2 APR 1969
C/EAB/OS

OP/RAD/ROB/PJSeidel:jef (1 April 1969)

69-1750

Executive Registry
69-2024

150 1350


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Contral Intelligence

SUBJECT: Request for Voluntary Retirement Guy Vitale

1. This memorandum submits a recommendation for your approval; this recommendation is contained la paragraph 4.

2. Mr. Guy Vitale, CS-08, lutelligence Analyst, Westora Hemisphere Division, Clandestine Services, has applied for voluntary retirement under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-50j, to be offective 28 February 1959.

3. Mr. Vitale has beon designated a participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System and meets tho technical requirements for voluntary retirement under the System. He is 51 years old with over 28 years of Federal service. This service includes over 2: years with the Agency of which 5 years were in qualifying service. The Head of the Clandestine Services Career Service aud the CIA Retirement Board have recommended that his application for voluntary retirement be approved. I ondorse these recommendations.

4. It is recommanded that you approve the voluntary retirement of Mr. Guy Vitale under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-501..

Robert S. Wattles
Director of Personnel

The recommendation contained in paragraph 4 is approved:

Director of Central intelligence

Date

SECRET

![Encart ce Jestass Kates]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1 SERIAL NUMBER
003620
2 NAME (Last-First-Middle)
VITALE, Guy

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
REASSIGNMENT

6 FUNDS
X V TO V
CP TO V
4 EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED
MONTH DAY YEAR
12/28/65
7 COST CENTER NO CHARGEABLE
6235-1162
5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
REGULAR
8 LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by Office of Personnel)

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
DOP/WH
WH/C
Miami Operations Branch
PM Section

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
Washington, D.C.

11 POSITION TITLE
INTELLI ASST.
12 POSITION NUMBER
1506
13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
D

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. 18. 1k.)
GS
(07)
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0301.23
16 GRADE AND STEP
08 (4)
17 SALARY OR RATE
$ 7553

18 REMARKS
From WH/C/MOB, PM Sec., #1142

P.R.A. per HR 20-21c(3) NTE December 1967.

Recorded By
CSPD
fp

18A SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
18B SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
ROBERT P. CASHMAN, CAN/Pers.
20 60615
U.J. Laleev
21 DEC 1965

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19 ACTION CODE
20 EMPLOY. CODE
21 OFFICE CODING
22 STATION CODE
23 DEGREE CODE
24 HOOIRS CODE
25 DATE OF BIRTH
26 DATE OF GRADE
27 DATE OF LEI
37/10
71526
WE 05015
10/16/17

28 NTE EXPIRES
29 SPECIAL REFERENCE
30 RETIREMENT DATA
31 SEPARATION DATA CODE
32 CORRECTION, CANCELLATION DATA
EOD DATA
33 SECURITY #12. NO.
34. SEX
1212767 83
1-CSA
3-HICA
5-NONE

35 VET. PREFERENCE
36. SERV. COMP DATE
37 1096 COMP DATE
38 CAREER CATEGORY
39 FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE
40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
CODE
MO.
DA.
YR.
CODE
MO.
DA.
YR.
CODE
O-WAIVER
1-YES
HEALTH INS. CODE

41 PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA
42 LEAVE CAT CODE
43 FEDERAL TAX DATA
44 STATE TAX DATA
CODE
0-NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
1-NO BREAK IN SERVICE
2-BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YEARS)
3-BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YEARS)
FORM EXECUTED CODE
NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS
FORM EXECUTED
1-YES
2-NO
CODE
NO. FAA STATE CODE EXEMP
1-YES
2-NO

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
    12-23-65-A
    46 OP APPROVAL
    DATE APPROVED
    12.23.65

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
6-63
SECRET
GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING
AND DECLASSIFICATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Guy Vitale

THROUGH : Head of D Career Service

SUBJECT : Notification of Non-eligibility for Designation as a
Participant in the CIA Retirement and Disability System

20 October 1965

1.  As you may know, we are in the process of reviewing the employment history and current career field of all employees in the Agency to identify those who are eligible for designation as a participant in the new CIA Retirement and Disability System. In this process, the initial review of each case is made by the individual's Career Service. If the Head of his Career Service nominates him for participation in the system, this nomination is reviewed by the CIA Retirement Board which recommends final action to me. However, if the Head of the Career Service advises that the employee does not meet the basic requirements of ER 20-50 for participation, I have accepted this finding without further review by the CIA Retirement Board. This practice has been adopted in the interest of expediting this screening process so that those employees who are eligible to participate in the system may be designated participants as soon as possible.

2.  In your case, the Head of your Career Service has advised me that you do not meet the requirements of HR 20-50 for designation as a participant and I have accordingly made the formal determination required by the regulation that you are not eligible for designation. From a review of your record it appears that the decision of your Career Service was based upon the fact that you have 15 years or more of Agency service, but have not as yet performed 60 months of qualifying service as required by regulation. My determination that you are not eligible at this time for designation in no way affects your current status under the Civil Service Retirement System, nor does it preclude reconsideration of your eligibility to participate in the CIA System if you should meet the requirements for designation in the future.

3.  Should you desire further information concerning the requirements for designation as a participant in the CIA Retirement System, I suggest that you read paragraph e of HR 20-50 and paragraph 5 of the Employee Bulletin dated 30 July 1965, entitled "Public Law 88-643, The Central Intelligence Agency Retirement Act of 1964 for Certain Employees".

4.  It is always possible that the records upon which the determination made in your case may have been incomplete or inaccurate regarding your actual employment history with the Agency. If, after studying the materials cited above, you have questions regarding the determination that you are not eligible to participate in the CIA Retirement System, please feel free to contact officials of your Career Service. They are familiar with the details of your case and will gladly discuss them with you. In addition, you may wish to discuss your case with the CIA Retirement Staff located in Room 6E-1319 Headquarters (extension 6001). If such discussions do not resolve any questions you have regarding your eligibility, you may request that your case be formally considered by the Board. However, this request must be made within 30 days of the date of this memorandum.

Emmett D. Echols.
Director of Personnel

SECRET

> Group I
> Excluded from auto-
> matic downgrading
> and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

(When Filled in)

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Lost-First-Middle)

003620 VITALE, Guy

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PROMOTION

6. FUNDS V TO V V TO CF

CF TO V CF TO CF

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP

Task Force W

FI/CI Branch

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

DATE PREPARED

12 December 1962

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

01 20 63 REGULAR

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by

ABLE Office of Personnel)

3232-1000-1000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Washington, D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

0683 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 08 (3) $6500

18. REMARKS

Promotion recommendation attached. Fitness Report submitted previously.

Recorded by

COPD

*Awe*

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED

*Louis W. Armstrong* *14 Dec 62* *N. Trenchaud* *1/7/63*

LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFW/Pers.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLC 21. OFFICE CODING 22.STATION 23. INTERFE 24. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI

CODE CODE ALPHABETIC CODE CODE

22 10 61300 TFW 75013 1 10/16/17

28.NTE EXPIRES 29. SPEC. A. 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32.CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33.SECURITY 34. SER

REFERENCE DATA COME REQ. NO.

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SEG. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP, DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FED'L/HEALTH INSURANCE 41. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

CODE MO. DA. YR. CODE NO. OA. YR. CAR/RESV FORM HEALTH INS, CODE

PROV/TEMP EXECUTED

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42.LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA STATE TAX DATA

CODE NO. OF FORM EXECUTED CODE NUI. TAX STATE CODE

EXEMPTIONS

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

*W. Kerney* *1/1/63*

46. O.P APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

M 1152 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITS.

AND FORM 1152A.

SECRET

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

003620 VITALE, Guy

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION DATE PREPARED

PROMOTION 12 December

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH DAY YEAR

REGULAR

6. FUNDS X V TO V V TO CF 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by

ABLE Office of Personnel)

CF TO V CF TO CF 3232-1000-1000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP

Task Force W

FI/CI Branch Washington, D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER (D) 0533 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS (09) 0136.01 03 (3) $6500

18. REMARKS

Promotion recommendation attached. Fitness Report submitted previously.

18A. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18B. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED

OFFICER

LOUIS W. ARMSTRONG, C/TFW/Pers.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL


FORM 1152 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITI

-62 AND FORM 1152A.

SECRET

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET
(When Filled In)

REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER
   003620

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   VITALE, Guy (MI)

DATE PREPARED
12 March 1962

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED FUNDS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT'
   MONTH DAY YEAR
   13 18 162
   REGULAR

6. FUNDS
   V TO V
   V TO CF

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
   ABLE
   Office of Personnel)

X CF TO V
CF TO CF
2235-1400-1000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/WH
Branch 4
FI/CI Sec.

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
    Washington, D. C.

11. POSITION TITLF.
    INTEL As
12. POSITION NUMBER
    0685
    13.. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
    D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP
    GS
    0301.28
    07 (3)

17. SALARY OR RATE
* 5685

18. REMARKS
    From: DDP/EE/CS/Dev.Compl., D.C.

CONCURRENCE: Frank Driscoll (per phone)
EE/Personnel Officer

1 copy to Security

SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL
DATE SIGNED
18a. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING
OFFICER
DATE SIGNED
JAMES DURHAM, WH/4/Pers.Officer

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

20. EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION CODE

23. NTE CODE
24. MONTH CODE 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEAVE

NUMERIC | ALPHABETIC
16 16 4.5
4773
10 16 17

28. NTE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL REFERENCE
30. RETIREMENT DATA
31. SEPARATION DATA 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
    EOD DATA

33. SENIORITY REG. NO.
34. SEX

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE

38. MIL. SERV. CREDIT/LCD 39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE
40. SOC. SECURITY NO.

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA
43. FEDERAL TAX DATA
44. STATE TAX DATA

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION
    Z. Hearney 03/2-/62

46. O.P. APPROVAL

FORM 1152 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
8-61

SECRET

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION 6 June 196 0

1. Serial No.

503620

2. Name (Lost-First-Middle)

VITALE GUY

3. Date Of Birth 4. Vat. Pref. 5. Sex

Mo. Da. Yr. None-O Code
5 Pr-1
10 16 17 1 M 1

6. CS-EOD

Mo. Da. Yr.

09 13 49

7. SCD 8. CSC Retmt. 9. CSC Or Other Legal Authority 10. Apmt. Affidav. 11. FEGLI 18. LCD 13. Credit, LCD

Mo: Da. Yr. Yes-1 Code Mo. Da. Yr. Yes-1 Code Mo. Da. Yr. Yos.1 Code Mo. Da. Yr.

10 24 42 No-2 1 50 USCA 403 No-2 09 13 49 No-2 2

25

PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

14. Organizational Designations
    DOP EE

ATHENS STATION

OPERATIONS STAFF

RECORDS INTEGRATION SECTION

Code

5231

15. Location Of Official Station

ATHENS, GREECE

Station Code

29501

10. Dept.-Field 17. Position Title 18. Position No. 19. Surv. 20. Occup. Series

Dept Code 1809 GS 0301.28

Usild- 5 INTELL ASST

Fron

21. Grade & Step 22. Salary Or Rate 23. SD 24. Date Of Grade 25. PSI Due 26. Appropriation Number

Mo. Da. Yr. Mo. Da. Yr.

07 1 $4980 DS 09 106 159 09 04 160 0139 9350 3018

ACTION

27. Nature Of Action Code 28. Eff. Date 29. Type C Employee Code 30. Separation Data

Mo. Da. Yr.

17 CA 112 160 REGULAR 25

REASSIGNMENT

PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

31. Organizational Designations Code 32. Location Of Official Station Station Code

CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT

EE DIVISION 5/288 WASH., D.C. 15013

33. Dent.-Field 34. Position Title 35. Position No. 36. Serv. 37. Occup. Series

Dept Code 661260

USfld-

Frgn

39. Grade & Step 39. Salary Or Rate 40. SD 41. Date Of Grade 42. PSI Dua 43.. Appropriation Number

Mo. Da. Yr. Mo. Du. Yr.

S D 0320 1998

SOURCE OF REQUEST

A. Requested By (Name And Title) C. Request Approved By (Signature And Title)

// Personnel

for Additional Information Call (Name & Telephone Ext.)

Annell M. Weiland X3884

CLEARANCES

Clearance Signature Date Clearance Signature Date

A. Career Board Placement E.

B. Fos. Control F. Approved 8v COPD 6-13-60

C. Classification

Remaris

In-casual

FCS RETURNEE

NO 1152

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# Pre 1960 Requests for Personnel Action


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 1)

1. PERS. SERIAL NO.

03630

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

VITALS, Guy (nm)

6. MARITAL STATUS

Single

9. CAREER
   STAFF
   STATUS

11. CURRENT
    RESERVE
    STATUS

3. SEX
   M

7. DEPENDENT(S)
   (Exclud. employee)

No. 0

OTHER STATUS
MEMBERSHIP
Jul 1954

X

12. ASSESSMENT DATE
    None

4. DATE OF BIRTH
   Oct 1917

YEAR(S) OF BIRTH

8. US NATURALIZATION DATE(S)
   NA

10. LAST MED. APT. QUAL. FOR
    Apr 1960 Dept Duties

GRADE

ACTIVE DUTY
WITH CIA-
CAT.-1

13. PROFESSIONAL TEST DATE
    None

SCD: 24 Oct 1942

5. LONGEVITY COMP., DATE
   13 Sep 1949

SPOUSE
EVAL. FOR
O/S Returnee
RELEASE TO
MIL. SER.
CAT.-2
TO BE
RETIRED
DEFERRED
CAT.-3
14. LANGUAGE APTITUDE TEST DATE
None

15. NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT

1935-41 Various jobs for short periods of time; also unemployed during part of this time.

1942-46 Military Service, US Army, Sgt

1946-49 Library of Congress, DC - Book Room Attendant

16. NON-CIA EDUCATION

1937-38 Kents Hill Jr College, Maine

1948-50 George Washington, DC - Poli Sci

17. FOREIGN
    LANGUAGE
    ABILITIES

None

18. AGENCY SPONSORED TRAINING

1962 Reds Off Crs

19. CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY SINCE 18 SEPT 1947 (Personnel Actions, Military Orders, and Principal Details)

| EFFECTIVE DATE | POSITION TITLE & OCCUPATIONAL CODE | GRADE   | SO    | ORGANIZATION & ORGAN. TITLE (If any) | LOCATION |
| -------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------- | ----- | ------------------------------------ | -------- |
| Sep 1949       | Messenger                          | 0302.01 | CPC 3 | CLD/Admin/Mail&CourierSect           | Hq       |
| Sep 1950       | File Clerk                         | 0305.01 | GS-3  | R&E/Map/Proc&RefBr                   | "        |
| Jul 1951       | " "                                | 0305.01 | 4     | RR/Geo/Map Library Br                | "        |
| Nov 1952       | " "                                | 0305.01 | 4     | OIR/Ch, GeoRes/MapLibrary/ProcBr     | "        |
| Sep 1955       | " "                                | 0305.01 | 5 IR  | " " " " " "                          |          |
| Dec 1956       | Clerk                              | 0301.26 | 5 DS  | DDP/SE/OpsDiv/Rpts, Index&Biog       | Athens   |
| Oct 1957       | " "                                | 0301.26 | 6 DS  | " " " " " " " "                      |          |
| Aug 1958       | Intel Asst                         | 0301.28 | 6 DS  | DDP/SE/OpsStf/RI Section             | "        |
| Sep 1959       | " "                                | 0301.26 | 7 DS  | " " " " " " " "                      |          |
| Jun 1960       | " "                                | 0301.26 | 7 D   | DDP/EE/CS/CSDevComp                  | Hq       |
| Mar 1962       | " "                                | 0301.26 | 7 D   | DDP/AH/Br-4/FI/CI Sec                | "        |
| Jan 1963       | Ops Off                            | 0136.01 | 8 D   | DDP/TF/FI/CI Br                      | "        |

20. DATE REVIEWED
    25 Jan 1965

21. PROFILE REVIEWED BY
    he

22. ITEMS 1-19 REVIEWED &
    VERIFIED BY EMPLOYEE No

FORM 1200 (PART 1) USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET PROFILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET
(When Filled In)
BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 2)

PERS. SERIAL NO.
03620

NAME (Last-First-Middle)
VITALE, Guy (nnn)

DATE OF BIRTH
Oct 1917

23. SUMMARIES OF EVALUATIVE REPORTS FOR THE PAST TWO YEARS

> [Figure: A black and white portrait photograph of Guy Vitale]

VITALE, Guy

24. SUMMARY OF CAREER PREFERENCE OUTLINE AND/OR FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

25. IDENTITY OF OTHER DOCUMENTS WHICH SHOULD BE REVIEWED IN DETAIL

26. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
    Commendation 1960 from Ch, EE Logistics for services rendered while on a temporary assignment to EE Division Logistics Office.

27. DATE REVIEWED
    25 Jan 1965

28. PROFILE REVIEWED BY
    hc

FORM NO. 1200 (PART 2) REPLACES FORM 1080 (PART 2) SECRET
1 FEB 17 PROFILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET
(when pulled in)

# BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 1)

1. PERS. SERIAL NO

003620

2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

VITALE, Guy (nnn)

6. MARITAL STATUS

Single

9. CAREER
   STAFF
   STATUS

11. CURRENT
    RESERVE
    STATUS

7. DEPENDENT(S)
   (Exclud. em-
   ployee)
   0

MEMBERSHIP

Jul 1954

NONE SERVICE

X

GRADE

10. LAST MED. APT. QUAL. FOR

Apr 1960

ACTIVE DUTY
WITH CIA
CAT. 1

13. PROFESSIONAL TEST DATE

None

3. SEX
   M

4. DATE OF BIRTH

16 Oct 1917

8. NO. YEAR(S) OF BIRTH

OTHER STATUS

Dept Duties

RELEASE TO
MIL. SER.
CAT. 2

14. LANGUAGE APTITUDE TEST DATE

None

SCD: 21 Oct 1942

5. LONGEVITY COMP. DATE

13 Sep 1949

9. US NATURALIZATION DATE(S)

NA

SPOUSE

EVAL. FOR

O/S Returnéc

TO BE
RETIRED
DEFERRED
CAT. 3

15. NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT

1938-41 Various jobs for short periods of time; also unemployed during part of this time.

1942-46 Military Service, US Army, Sgt

1946-49 Library of Congress, DC - Clk; Libr Asst

16. NON-CIA EDUCATION

1937-38 Kents Hill Jr College, Maine

1948-50 George Washington, DC - Poli Sci

1957 American Mission Sch, Athens, Greece - Greek (3 mos)

17. FOREIGN
    LANGUAGE
    ABILITIES
    (Language, Profi-
    ciency. Date Tested)

None

18. AGENCY SPONSORED TRAINING

1962 Reds Off Cra

19. CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY SINCE 18 SEPT 1947 (Personnel Actions, Military Orders, and Principal Details)

| EFFECTIVE DATE | POSITION TITLE | OCCUPATIONAL CODE | GRADE | SO  | ORGANIZATION & ORGAN. TITLE (If any) | LOCATION |
| -------------- | -------------- | ----------------- | ----- | --- | ------------------------------------ | -------- |
| Sep 1949       | Messenger      | 0302.01           | CPC 3 |     | C&D/Admin/Mail&CourierSect           | Hq       |
| Sep 1950       | File Clerk     | 0305.01           | CS-3  |     | R&E/Map/Proc&RefBr                   | "        |
| Jul 1951       | "              | 0305.01           | 4     |     | PR/Geo/Map Library Br                | "        |
| Nov 1952       | "              | 0305.01           | 4     |     | ORT/Ch, GeoRes/MapLibrary/Proc&r     | "        |
| Sep 1956       | "              | 0305.01           | 5 IR  |     | "                                    | "        |
| Dec 1956       | Clerk          | 0301.26           | 5 DS  |     | DDP/SE/OpsDiv/Rpts, Index&Biog       | Athens   |
| Oct 1957       | "              | 0301.26           | 6 DS  |     | "                                    | "        |
| Aug 1958       | Intel Asst     | 0301.28           | 6 DS  |     | DDP/SE/OpsStf/RI Section             | "        |
| Sep 1959       | "              | 0301.26           | 7 DS  |     | "                                    | "        |
| Jun 1960       | "              | 0301.26           | 7 D   |     | DDP/HE/CS/CSDevCorp                  | Hq       |
| Mar 1962       | "              | 0301.26           | 7 D   |     | DDP/HH/Br-4/FI/CI Sec                | "        |
| Jan 1963       | Ops Off        | 0136.01           | 8 D   |     | DDP/TFH/FI/CI Br                     | "        |
| May 1965       | "              | 0136.01           | 8 D   |     | DDP/WH/C/Miami Ops Er                | "        |
| Dec 1965       | Intel Asst     | 0301.28           | 8 D   |     | "                                    | "        |
| May 1968       | Intel Anal     | 0132.35           | 8 D   |     | DDP/WH/C                             | "        |


20. DATE REVIEWED

6 Feb 1969

21. PROFILE REVIEWED BY

he

22. ITEMS 1-19 REVIEWED &
    VERIFIED BY EMPLOYEE

No

FORM 1200 (PART 1) USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

8-57

PROFILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET
(When Filled In)
# BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE (PART 2)

PERS. SERIAL NO.
03620

NAME (Last-First-Middle)
VITALIE, Guy (nnn)

DATE OF BIRTH
16 Oct 1917

23. 
> [Figure: A portrait of Guy Vitale with what appears to be a signature and another label below it.]
> ![photo of Guy Vitale]
> VITALIE, Guy
> 141

24. SUMMARY OF CAREER PREFERENCE OUTLINE AND/OR FIELD REASSIGNMENT QUESTIONNAIRE

25. IDENTITY OF OTHER DOCUMENTS WHICH SHOULD BE REVIEWED IN DETAIL

26. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
    Commendation 1960 from Ch, ES Logistics for services rendered while on a temporary assignment to EE Division Logistics Office.

27. DATE REVIEWED
    6 Feb 1969

28. PROFILE REVIEWED BY
    hc

FORM NO. 1200 (PART 2) REPLACES FORM 1080 (PART 2) WHICH IS OBSOLETE. SECRET
PROFILE
(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
003620

SECTION A

GENERAL

1. NAME
   Vitale, Guy
2. DATE OF BIRTH
   10/16/17
3. SEX
   M
4. GRADE
   08
5. SD
   D
6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Intelligence Asst.
7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT
   DDP/WH/COG
8. CURRENT STATION
   Hqs.
9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

X CARLER
RESERVE
TEMPORARY
10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT.
CAREER PROVISIONAL
SPECIAL (Specily):
INITIAL
X ANNUAL
REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specify):
11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
July 1968
12. REPORTING PERIOD
1 July 67 - 30 June 68

SECTION B
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
W - Weak
Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive romedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate
Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding
Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY affectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to superviso (indicate number of employees nupervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Analysis and Research of clandestine service documents for information pertinent to the criteria of the CUIS/LA Subversive machine program.
RATING LETTER
P
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Assists personnel with machine name traces and other operational support assistance.
RATING LETTER
P
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
Preparation of biographic input sheets for machine processing into the Cuban IS program.
RATING LETTER
P
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
As Branch Records Officer insures compliance with CS Records directives including authorization for destruction of CS documents.
RATING LETTER
P
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
RATING LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6
RATING LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or hobits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the latter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
RATING LETTER
P
FORM
4-65
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET
(Bhen FilMed 15)

## SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current parition herping in prope: perspective their relationship to overall.performance State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on, foreign language competence, if required for current position Amplify or explain ratings given in Section 8 to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness In the use of personnel seace, equipment and funds, must be commented ra, if applicable. If extro space ace is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Vitale since he was assigned to me Initially on a part- time basis and later as a full time assistant has performed adequately as an input analyst in addition to his proficient work as a Records Officer and General support assistant. The quality of his input has been good and his production has helped considerably in cutting down the size of the input backlog. Mr. Vitale also continues to perform the Records Officers function for the branch with a sound knowledge of general records procedures. His attitude and attendance record continue to reflect a willingness to assist the branch in whatever way necessary. In addition Mr. Vitale's valuable background knowledge on a former vital portion of the branch's effort continues to be utilized to a considerable extent. He gets along well with his colleagues and contributes to the smooth running of the office.

Mr. Vitale is presently within 2 years of retirement or 4 years, if he does not receive an overseas assignment. He has told the career panel, he would accept an overseas assignment to either Vietnam or Laos. In view of his experience with paramilitary operations, it is felt this would be a more fitting assignment for him than the present one, even though he has been performing quite satisfactorily.

## SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE 7/18/68
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

2. 
MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

9

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

15 July

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Alva King

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

3. COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur in the evaluation of this employee as presented above.

DATE

13 July 1968

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

CATH/COG/OS

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Thos. J. Barrett

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECTION C/Continued

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

For approximately four months during 1967, Mr. Vitale worked with me in providing Headquarters' support to JMWAVE in its conduct of special operations into PBRUMEN. In such a role, Mr. Vitale's knowledge of the history, mechanics, requirements and PBRUMEN personnel of these operations was invaluable in (1) the preparation of operational proposals for the 303 Committee, (2) the provision of timely operational information periodically requested by the front offices of both WH/COG and WIHD, and (3) the briefing of WOFIRM personnel newly assigned to JMWAVE to assist in these operations. While under my supervision, Mr. Vitale was a conscientious, loyal, cooperative employee who readily and willingly performed all tasks assigned to him in an exceptional manner. He always expressed his willingness to work as many hours as necessary to finish the task at hand. He has a very pleasant personality, gets along well with his fellow workers and exhibits a good sense of cost consciousness in the use of government equipment and materials. The rating letter "S" most accurately reflects the level of performance of Mr. Vitale during the period he was under my supervision.

Robert J. Weatherwax


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SECRET

# FITNESS REPORT

## SECTION A

1. NAME

VITALE Guy

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Intell Asst

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CARCER RESERVE TEMPORARY

CAREFN-PROVISIONAL (Sea Instructions Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

003620

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX 4. GRADE 5. SO

16 Oct 17 M GS-08 D

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION

DDP/WH/COG Washington

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

ANNUAL X REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specily):

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to-)

1 July 1966 - 30 June 1967

## SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W- Week Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to, slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

### SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Maintains project and agent 201 files for the Branch's paramilitary program.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Locates and maintains material for use in briefings and in the conduct of liaison with other government agencies.

RATING
LETTER

A

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Aids in conducting name traces and in processing operational clearances.

RATING
LETTER

P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

As Branch Records Officer, insures compliance with CS records directives, including authorization for destruction of CS documents.

RATING
LETTER

P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Assists in conduct of input to Cuban I.S. Machine Records Program.

RATING
LETTER

P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
LETTER

31 AUG 1967

### OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER

P

FORM 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made los improvement of work performance. Give recor.mendutions for training. Conan ent on foreign language competence, if required for current positier Amplify ct expluin rotings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of perlembauce of menn jerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and lunds, must be commented or if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section Cattach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Vitale, continues to perform his duties as an operational support assistant capably. His background knowledge of Cuban paramilitary operations has provided the Branch with very useful continuity. His ability and experience in locating material and in handling records for headquarters support to WII/COG Special Operations contribute substantially to the Branch's operational support effort. Mr. Vitale carries out his assigned duties in a willing, loyal and highly dependable manner. Ho recently has been given an additional assignment on the CUIS Machine Input Program which he is handling in a highly efficient manner. He gets along woll with his colleagues and contributes to the smooth running of the office. He does not have supervisory responsibilities, but does show concern for officient and economical use of government property.

# SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE

25 Aug '67

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

2. 
MONTHS EMPLOYER HAS DEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION

12

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT MAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

25 August 1967

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

Section Chief,
PM Operations

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

Ernest Chiocca

3. 
COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

As noted in the last Fitness Report, I concur generally in the supervisor's ratings of Mr. Vitale's performance as listed; but I must again note that these are duties which could be performed by a moro junior clerical type and that Mr. Vitale should not be considered as performing GS-8 level Intelligence Assistant work at a Proficient rating. Indeed, he is, in my opinion, not qualified for such a role and his official position title should be changed to prevent any misunderstanding as to the somewhat unique nature of his value to the Agency.

DATE

28 AUG 1967

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIE ING OFFICIAL TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

C/WH/COG/NO

Robert A. Ortman

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

11 May 1960
File K-1:849

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT : VITALE, Guy, nmi

1.  Cover arrangements are in process, and have been com- pleted for the above-named Subject.

2.  Effective 1 April 1960, it is requested that your records be properly blocked to deny Subject's current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

3. 
Paul P. Stewart
HARRY W. LITTLE, JR.
Chief, Central Cover Division

cc: SSD/OS

THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN
ON TOP OF FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

ALE: 10 MAR 63

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1 SERIAL NUMBER
2 NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

003620 VITALE GUY

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RETIREMENT VOLUNTARY UNDER CIA
RETIREMENT AND DISASILITY SYSTEM

4 EFFECTIVE DATE

02 28 69

5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

6 FUNDS
V TO V X
V TO CF
7 Financial Analysis No. Changeable
8 ESC-OF-OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

CF TO V
CF TO CF
19235 0620 0000

P.L. 88-643
SECT. 233

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/WH
WH/COG
OPERATIONS BRANCH
WH SECTION

WASH., D.C.

11 POSITION TITLE
12 POSITION NUMBER
13 SERVICE DESIGNATION

INTELLIGENCE ASST

1685
D

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS 18 ok.)
15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16 GRADE AND STEP
17 SALARY OR RATE

GS
0301.26
OS 6
8984

18 REMARKS

1. LAST NAME
   FIRST NAME
   INITIAL(S) 2. APPOINTMENT DATA
3. TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE
   (as of date of separation)

VITALE
GUY

Entered on duty

9-13-19
FT
PT
X
Years
Months
Days

4. DATE AND NATURE OF SEPARATION

Subject to Sec. 303(d), 1951 Leave Act
26
4
4

2-28-69 RETIREMENT CIARDS

Yes
No

More than 15 years

Ceased to be subject to Ser. 203(d)

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE
SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE
(HOURS)
(DAYS)
REMARKS

ANNUAL
SICK

5 Balance from prior leave year ended
1-11-
SCD
14. Date arrival abroad for HL purposes
19 69
274 1655
15. Current balance as of
19..
10-24-42
6. Current leave year accrual through
3-08-
16. 12-month accrual rate
19 69
24 12
17. Dates leave used, prior 24 months
7. Total
298 1667
18 Monthly accrual date
8. Reduction in credits, if any (current year)
0 0
9. Total leave taken
1 1
19. Calendar days credit for next accrual date
10. Balance
294 1667
20. Date basic service period completed

MILITARY LEAVE

11 Total hours paid in lump sum
274 hrs
21. Dates during current calendar yr
12. Salary rate(s)
88984.
22. Dates during preceding calendar yr to

ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY
LWOP or AWOL or
Furlough Suspension
(Hours)
13. Lump sum leave dates.

from 0830.3-3-69 to 4-18-69 1030
23. During leave year in which separated
0 0

24 During step-increase waiting
0 0

period which began on 1-14-68


26
2/11/07/69
25. During 12-month HR accrual period (dates!:

(Signature)
(Date)

FOR CHIEF PAYROLL
143-2595
(Title)
(Telephone)

Standard Form 1150
November 1969
1150-106

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED
U.S. CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
FPM SUPPLEMENTS 296-31 AND 990-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 212 AND 216, 26-890-205 AND
EXECUTIVE GROEP 11413 PURSUANT TO ALTH. STIM. FUCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT
OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND A-UCI DIRECTIVE DATED 9 LCTOBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF FAY ADJUSTMENT: 14 JULY 1968

NAME SERIAL OPGN, FUNDS GP-STEP
OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY

VITALE GUY 003520 51 300 V GS CE O $ 3,614 $ 8,984

---

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)
041621 VITALE GUY

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4 EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
   MAY
   05 06 68

A. ASSIGNMENT 7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

FUNDS A V TO V V TO CF
CF TO V CF TO CF

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
   0235 0620 0000
   DUP/WH DIVISION
   AH SECTION WASH., "C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
    INTEL ANALYST 1485 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 1B, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
    G 0132.35 NA

18. REMARKS

---

![signature]

POSTED
![posted date]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

14-00000

1. SERIAL NO. 2. NAME 3. ORGANIZATION 4. FUNDS 5. LWOPO HOURS

003620 VITALE GUY 51 500 V

6. OLD SALARY RATE 7. NEW SALARY RATE 8. TYPE ACTION
   Grade Step Salary Last Eff. Date Grade Step Salary EFFECTIVE DATE SI ADJ.
   GS 08 5 8368 01/16/66 GS 08 6 8614 01/14/68

CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEES IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE..

SIGNATURE DATE

NO EXCESS LWOPO

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS NM AUDITED BY

FORM 560 E Use previous
editions PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION (4-51)

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 89-504
PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962,"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 3 JULY 1966

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY
VITALE GUY 003620 51 500 V GS 08 5 $ 7,781 $ 8,008

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 90-206
PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962,"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT, 8 OCTOBER 1967

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY

V TA Y


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

"PAY ANJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE SITH SALARY SC-E ULES OF PL 19-301
PURSUANT TC AUTHORITY OF IC! AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMEADER, AVC A-DCI POLICY DIRECTIVE DATENA OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 10 OCTOBER 1905

NAME SERIAL ORGY FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY
VITALE GLY 003620 51 500 V GS 18 4 $ 7.29 3 7.553

G-33

| 1. Serial No. | 2. Name    | 3 Cost Center Number | 4. IWOP Hours |
| ------------- | ---------- | -------------------- | ------------- |
| 003620        | VITALE GUY | 51.500 V             |               |

| 5. Grade |      | OLD SALARY RATE |               | 6. Grade |      | NEW SALARY RATE | 7. TYPE ACTION |     |     |      |
| -------- | ---- | --------------- | ------------- | -------- | ---- | --------------- | -------------- | --- | --- | ---- |
|          | Step | Salary          | Last Elf Date |          | Step | Salary          | Effective Date | PSI | LSI | ADI. |
| GS 08    | 4    | 7.553           | 01/19/64      | GS 09    | 5    | 7,751           | 01/15/06       |     |     |      |

/ NO EXCESS LWOP
/ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
/ LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE: DATE 23 JAN 65

BAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

P.JH: 29 DEC 65

SECRET
(When Filled In)

OCF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

003620 VITALE GUY

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4 EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MO. DA. YR.

12 28 65 REGULAR

6. FUNDS
   X V TO V CF TO V CF TO CF 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

6235 1162 0000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 18. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH
WH/C
MIAMI OPERATIONS BR/PM SECTION WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13 SERVICE DESIGNATION

INTELLIGENCE ASST 1506 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18. etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0301.28 08 4 7553

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Ndatrs. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code NUMERIC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE Code MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

37 10 51500! WH 75013 1 10, 16, 17

28. NIE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE CODE DATA CODE REQ. NO.

MO. DA. YR. 3. FICA

12,27,67 83 5. NONE

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. RATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER. CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/ HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE MO DA YR. CODE CODE O. WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA STATE TAX DATA
    CODE CODE FORM EXECUTED, CODE NO TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. STATE CODE
    EXEN.
0. NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1. YES 1. YES

1. NO BREAK IN SERVICE 2. NO

2. BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS?

3. BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS?

SIGNATURE CR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![posted 122965]

FORM 1150 Use Previous SECRET GROUP 1
Edition Excluded from automatic
regrading and
declassification
(4-51)
(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCS 05/27/65

1 SERIAL NUMBER

2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

003620 VITALE GUY

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4 EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

05 31 65

6 FUNDS X V TO V V TO CF 7 COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

CF TO V CF TO CF 5235 1162 0000

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH DIVISION ASH., D. C.
NH C MIAMI OPS BR PM SEC

11 POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 1147 U

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, IB, etc.) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE

GS 0130.01 08

18. REMARKS

> POSTED
> (6-10-65 #

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form 11508 Use Previous (4-51)

1-63 MFG 1-63 Edition

SECRET

GROUP 1

Excluded from automatic
declassifying and
declassification

(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE
SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES SALARY REFORM
ACT OF 1964 PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR
OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND POLICY
DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL
INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 ОСТОBER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE
AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART BELOW.

## GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES
### Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

| GRADE | 1      | 2      | 3      | 4      | 5      | 6      | 7      | 8      | 9      | 10     |
| ----- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
| GS-1  | $3,385 | $3,500 | $3,615 | $3,730 | $3,845 | $3,960 | $4,075 | $4,190 | $4,305 | $4,420 |
| GS-2  | 3,680  | 3,805  | 3,930  | 4,055  | 4,180  | 4,305  | 4,430  | 4,555  | 4,680  | 4,805  |
| GS-3  | 4,005  | 4,140  | 4,275  | 4,410  | 4,545  | 4,680  | 4,815  | 4,950  | 5,085  | 5,220  |
| GS-4  | 4,480  | 4,630  | 4,780  | 4,930  | 5,080  | 5,230  | 5,380  | 5,530  | 5,680  | 5,830  |
| GS-5  | 5,000  | 5,165  | 5,330  | 5,495  | 5,660  | 5,825  | 5,990  | 6,155  | 6,320  | 6,485  |
| GS-6  | 5,505  | 5,690  | 5,875  | 6,060  | 6,245  | 6,430  | 6,615  | 6,800  | 6,985  | 7,170  |
| GS-7  | 6,050  | 6,250  | 6,450  | 6,650  | 6,850  | 7,050  | 7,250  | 7,450  | 7,650  | 7,850  |
| GS-8  | 6,630  | 6,850  | 7,070  | 7,290  | 7,510  | 7,730  | 7,950  | 8,170  | 8,390  | 8,610  |
| GS-9  | 7,220  | 7,465  | 7,710  | 7,955  | 8,200  | 8,445  | 8,690  | 8,935  | 9,180  | 9,425  |
| GS-10 | 7,900  | 8,170  | 8,440  | 8,710  | 8,980  | 9,250  | 9,520  | 9,790  | 10,060 | 10,330 |
| GS-11 | 8,650  | 8,945  | 9,240  | 9,535  | 9,830  | 10,125 | 10,420 | 10,715 | 11,010 | 11,305 |
| GS-12 | 10,250 | 10,605 | 10,960 | 11,315 | 11,670 | 12,025 | 12,380 | 12,735 | 13,090 | 13,445 |
| GS-13 | 12,075 | 12,495 | 12,915 | 13,335 | 13,755 | 14,175 | 14,595 | 15,015 | 15,435 | 15,855 |
| GS-14 | 14,170 | 14,660 | 15,150 | 15,640 | 16,130 | 16,620 | 17,110 | 17,600 | 18,090 | 18,580 |
| GS-15 | 16,460 | 17,030 | 17,600 | 18,170 | 18,740 | 19,310 | 19,880 | 20,450 | 21,020 | 21,590 |
| GS-16 | 18,935 | 19,590 | 20,245 | 20,900 | 21,555 | 22,210 | 22,865 | 23,520 | 24,175 |        |
| GS-17 | 21,445 | 22,195 | 22,945 | 23,695 | 24,445 |        |        |        |        |        |
| GS-18 | 24,500 |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

14-00000

# PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

| 1 Serial No | 2 Name     | 3 Cost Center Number | 4 IWO/F Hours |
| ----------- | ---------- | -------------------- | ------------- |
| 003620      | VITALE GUY | 49 300 37F V         |               |

| 5 OLD SALARY RATE               | 6 NEW SALARY RATE                             | 7 TYPE ACTION |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Grade Step Salary Last Eff Date | Grade Step Salary Effective Date PSI ISI  ACI |               |
| GS 08 3 $6810 01/20/63          | GS 08 4 $7020 01/19/64                        |               |

8 Remarks and Authentication

*   / NO EXCESS LWOP
*   / IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
*   / LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
*   CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY JLZ

SALARY CONTINGENT ON CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE!

![signature]

DATE 3 DEC 63

Form 560 Obsolete Previous Edition

---

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PUBLIC LAW 87-793 AND DCI
MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1956, SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS,
EFFECTIVE 5 JANUARY 1964.

| NAME       | SERIAL | ORGN FUNDS | GR-ST   | OLD SALARY | NEW SALARY |
| ---------- | ------ | ---------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| VITALE GUY | 003620 | 49 300 V   | GS 08 3 | $ 6.500    | $ 6.810    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

BAR: 18 JAN 63

SECRET
(When Filled In)

OCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

003620 VITALE GUY

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

PROMOTION

4. FUNDS V TO (F

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

6. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

3232 1000 1000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP TASK FORCE W.
FI/CI BRANCH WASH., D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0683 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LR. WH) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OF RATE

GS 0135.01 09 3 6500

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Reasgn. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code NUMBER CODE CODE Code MO. DA YR. MO. DA YR. MO. DA YR.
    22 10 61300 TFW 75013 1 10 16 17 01 20 63 01 20 63
28. WIE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA EOD DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE TYPE REG NO.

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LIFE INS. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE Data 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM 1150 Use Previous Edition

SECRET

(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PUBLIC LAW 47-793 AND
OCI MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1956 , SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS.
EFFECTIVE 14 OCTOBER 1964

ΝΑΜΞ SERIAL ORGN FUNDS
OLD GR-ST SALARY
NEW GR-ST SALARY

VITALE GUY 003620 61000 V 07 4 $ 5850 07 4 $ 6095


1. Serial No.
2. Name
3. Cost Center Number
4. LWOP Hours

003620 VITALE GUY 61 000 V 2A

5. OLD SALARY RATE
6. NEW SALARY RATE
7. TYPE ACTION
   Grade Step Salary Last Eff. Date Grade Step Salary Effective Date PSI LSI ADJ
   GS 07 3 $ 5,685 09/03/61 GS 07 4 $ 5,850 09/02/62

8. Remarks and Authentication

/ NO EXCESS LHOP / EXCESS LHOP

/ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ IN LHOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Form
961 560


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

1. Serial No.
2. Name
3. Cost Center Number
4. LWOP Hours

23620 VITALE GUY 10/FF UV

OLD SALARY RATE
NEW SALARY RATE
12. TYPE ACTION
Grade Step Salary Last Fll. Date Grade Step Salary Effective Date FSI LSI Adj

S 07 2 $5,520 03/04/60 07 3 $5,685 09/03/61 X

8. Remarks and Authentication

2-010

NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

IN LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Forms 560 Obsolete Previous
SECRET
(4-51)

---

ABM: 20 MAR 62

SECRET
(When Filled In)

OCF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

003620 VITALE GUY

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO
   VOUCHERED FUNDS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE
5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

03 18 62 REGULAR

6. FUNDS
   V TO V V TO CF 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

X
CF TO V CF TO CF
2235 1400 1000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP WH
BRANCH 4
FI CI SEC
WASH., D. C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

INTELLIGENCE ASST 0685 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0301.28 07 3 5685

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOYEE 21. OFFICE CODING
22. STATION 23. INTEREST
24. REGISTER 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LWI
    CODE CODE ALPHABETIC CODE CODE

16 10 64450 WH 75013 1 10 16 17

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION CANCELLATION DATA
    MO. DA. REFERENCE NO. DA. CODE DATA CODE
    EOD DATA

33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    RSO NO

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. MIL. SERV. CREDIT LCD 39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO
    CODE

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE CODE

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

L.1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

1. EMP. SERIAL NO.

503620

2. NAME

VITALE GUY

3. ASSIGNED ORGAN.

DDP/FF

4. FUNDS

C UV

5. ALLOTMENT

6. OLD SALARY RATE

| GRADE | STEP | SALARY  | LAST EFFECTIVE DATE |
| ----- | ---- | ------- | ------------------- |
|       |      |         | NO DA. YR.          |
| GS 07 | 1    | $ 5,355 | 09 06 59            |

7. NEW SALARY RATE

| GRADE | STEP | SALARY  | EFFECTIVE DATE |
| ----- | ---- | ------- | -------------- |
|       |      |         | NO DA. YR.     |
| GS 07 | 2    | $ 5,520 | 09 04 60       |

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF COMPTROLLER

8. CHECK ONE

☐ NO EXCESS LWOP

☐ EXCESS LWOP

9. NUMBER OF HOURS LWOP

IF EXCESS LWOP, CHECK FOLLOWING:

☐ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

☐ IN LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

10. INITIALS OF CLERK

11. AUDITED BY

TO BE COMPLETED BY THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

12. TYPE OF ACTION

☐ P.S.I. ☐ L.S.I. ☐ PAY ADJUSTMENT

13. REMARKS

200

14. AUTHENTICATION

E.D. ECHOLS

42F 7/23/60

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

FORM 560 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION REPLACES FORM 560a AND 560b.

SECRET

OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FOLDER

(4)

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF P. L. 86-568 AND DCI MEMO DATED 1 AUGUST 1956. SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS EFFECTIVE 10 JULY 1960.

SD NAME SERIAL ORGN GR-ST OLD SALARY NEW SALARY

D VITALE GUY 503620 52 88 GS-07 1 $ 4,990 $ 5,355

/S/ EMMETT D. ECHOLS

DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

ARE:10 JUNE 1960

1. Serial No.

503620

2. Nama (Last-First-Middle)

VITALE GUY

3. Date Of Birth

Mo. Da. Yr.

10 16 17

4. Vet. Pref.

Nono-0 Code
5 Pt:-1
10 Pt-2

5. Sex

M 1

6. CS-EOD

Mo. Da. Yr.

09 13 49

7. SCD

8. CSC Rotmt. 9. CSC Or Other Legal Authority

10. Apmt. Allıdav. 11. FEGLI 12. LCD

13. AELI

Mo. Da. Yr.

Yos-1

Code

50 USCA 403 J

Mo. Da. Yr. Yes-1 Code Mo. Da. Yr. Yos.1 Code

10 24 42 No-2 1

09 13 49 No-2 2

## PREVIOUS ASSIGNMENT

14. Organizational Designations

Code

15. Location Of Ollicial Station

Station Code

DOP EE
ATHENS STATION
OPERATIONS STAFF
RECORDS INTEGRATION SECTION

16. Dept. Field 17. Position Titla

Dent - 1 Code
Usild- 3
Fron - 5 5 INTELL ASST

18. Position No.

19. Sorv. 20. Occup. Series

9231

ATHENS, GREECE

29501

1809 G9 0301.28

21. Grade & Step 22. Salary Or Rate 23. SD

24. Data Of Grade 25. PSI Due 26. Appropriation Number

Mo. Da. Yr. Mo. Da. Yr.

07 1 $ 4980 DS

09 106 159 09 104 166 0139/9350 3018

## ACTION

27. Nature Of Action

Code 28. Elf. Date

29. Type Of Employee

Code 30. Separation Data

Mo Da. Yr.

REASSIGNMENT

67 06 12 60 REGULAR 85

## PRESENT ASSIGNMENT

31. Organizationcil Designations

Code

32. Location Of Official Station

Station Code

CS/CS DEVELOPMENT COMPLEMENT
EE DIVISION

33. Dept. Field 134. Position Title

Dept - 1 Code
Usild - 3
Fron - 5 1 INTELL ASST.

5288
WASH., D. c.

75013

35. Position No.

36. Serv. 37. Occup. Series

061260 GS 0301.28

38. Grade & Step 39. Salary Or Rate 40. SD 41. Date Of Grade 42. PSI Due 43. Appropriation Number

Mo. Da. Yr. Mo. Da. Yr.

07 1 $ 4980 D 09 106 159 109 104 160 10320 1998

44. Remarks

CASUAL (PCS RETURNEE)

![POSTED 16 JUN 1960]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# Pre 1960 Notifications of Personnel Action


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

# FITNESS REPORT

## GENERAL

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
003620

### SECTION A

1.  NAME

Vitale,

(Last)

Guy

(First)

(Middle)

2.  DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX
    10/16/17 M

4.  GRADE 5. SD
    08 D

6.  OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
    Intelligence Asst.

7.  OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
    DDP/WH/COG Hqs.

9.  CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

[X] CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions Section C)

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

[ ] INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
[X] ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL (Specify):
SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
    July 1968

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From - to)
    1 July 67 - 30 June 68

### SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

## SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert.rating.letter which bo'st describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Analysis and Research of clandestine service documents for information pertinent to the criteria of the CUIS/LA Subversive machine program.

RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Assists personnel with machine name traces and other operational support assistance.

RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
Preparation of biographic input sheets for machine processing into the Cuban IS program.

RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
As Branch Records Officer insures compliance with CS Records directives including authorization for destruction of CS documents.

RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING LETTER

![Signature]

## OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING LETTER
P

FORM 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

![GROUP 1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET

## NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or expicia retings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on appiccole. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Vitale since he was assigned to really on a part-time basis and later as a full time assistant has performed adequately as an input analyst in addition to his proficient work as a Records Officer and General support assistant. The quality of his input has been good and his production has helped considerably in cutting down the size of the input backlog. Mr. Vitale also continues to perform the Records Officers function for the branch with a sound knowledge of general records procedures. His attitude and attendance record continue to reflect a willingness to assist the branch in whatever way necessary. In addition "Mr. Vitale's valuable background knowledge on a former vital portion of the branch's effort continues to be utilized to a considerable extent. He gets along well with his colleagues and contributes to the smooth running of the office.

Mr. Vitale is presently within 2 years of retirement or 4 years, if he does not receive an overseas assignment. He has told the career panel, he would accept an overseas assignment to either Vietnam or Laos. In view of his experience with paramilitary operations, it is felt this would be a more fitting assignment for him than the present one, even though he has been performing quite satisfactorily.


| DATE    |     | SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE |
| ------- | --- | --------------------- |
| 7/18/68 |     | Derry Vitale          |



| MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION |     | IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SMOEN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION |
| --------------------------------------------- | --- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 9                                             |     |                                                                 |



| DATE    |     | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE |
| ------- | --- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 18 July |     |                              | Alva King                           |


I concur in the evaluation of this employee as presented above.


| DATE         | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE |
| ------------ | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| 13 July 1968 | C/WH/COG/OS                          | Thos. J. Barrett                    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECTION C/Continued

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

For approximately four months during 1967, Mr. Vitale worked with me in providing Headquarters' support to JMWAVE in its conduct of special operations into PBRUMEN. In such a role, Mr. Vitale's knowledge of the history, mechanics, requirements and PBRUMEN personnel of these operations was invaluable in (1) the preparation of operational proposals for the 303 Committee, (2) the provision of timely operational information periodically requested by the front offices of both WH/COG and WHD, and (3) the briefing of WOFIRM personnel newly assigned to JMWAVE to assist in these operations. While under my supervision, Mr. Vitale was a conscientious, loyal, cooperative employee who readily and willingly performed all tasks assigned to him in an exceptional manner. He always expressed his willingness to work as many hours as necessary to finish the task at hand. He has a very pleasant personality, gets along well with his fellow workers and exhibits a good sense of cost consciousness in the use of government equipment and materials. The rating letter "S" most accurately reflects the level of performance of Mr. Vitale during the period he was under my supervision.

![signature of Robert J. Weatherwax]

Robert J. Weatherwax


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

![document cover]

# FITNESS REPORT

## GENERAL

**SECTION A**

1.  NAME:
    *   (Last) VITALE
    *   (First) Guy
2.  DATE OF BIRTH: 16 Oct 17
3.  SEX: M
4.  GRADE: GS-08
5.  SD: D
6.  OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE: Intell Asst
7.  OFF. DIV. OR OF ASSIGNMENT: DDP/WH/COG
8.  CURRENT STATION: Washlugton
9.  CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT
    *   CAREER
    *   RESERVE
    *   TEMPORARY
    *   CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions - Section C)
    *   SPECIAL (Specify):
10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT
    *   INITIAL
    *   ANNUAL
    *   SPECIAL (Specify):
    *   REASSIGNMENT S/UPERVISON
    *   REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to): 1 July 1966 - 30 June 1967

**SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION**

W - Weak
Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment of to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate
Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding
Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

**SPECIFIC DUTIES**

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Maintains project and agent 201 files for the Branch's paramilitary program.

| RATING LETTER |
| ------------- |
| S             |

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Locates and maintains material for use in briefings and in the conduct of liaison with other government agencies.

| RATING LETTER |
| ------------- |
| A             |

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Aids in conducting name traces and in processing operational clearances.

| RATING LETTER |
| ------------- |
| P             |

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

As Branch Records Officer, insures compliance with CS records directives, including authorization for destruction of CS documents.

| RATING LETTER |
| ------------- |
| P             |

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Assists in conduct of input to Cuban I.S. Machine Records Program.

| RATING LETTER |
| ------------- |
| P             |

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

![date]

**OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION**

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

| RATING LETTER |
| ------------- |
| P             |

FORM 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current positian, keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, it required for current position, Amplify or explain ratings given in Section 8 to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the vie of personnel, space, equipment and lunds, must be commented on, it opplicable. Hextro space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Mr. Vitale continues to perform his duties as an operational support assistant capably. His background knowledge of Cuban paramilitary operations has provided the Branch, with very useful continuity. His ability and experience in locating material and in handling records for headquarters support to WH/COG Special Operations contribute substantially to the Branch's operational support effort. Mr. Vitale carries out his assigned duties in a willing, loyal and highly dependable manner. He recently has been given an additional assignment on the CUIS Machine Input Program which he is handling in a highly efficient manner. He gets along well with his colleagues and contributes to the smooth running of the office. He does not have supervisory responsibilities, but does show concern for efficient and economical use of government property.

# CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE 25 Aug '67

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

12

DATE 25 August 1967

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
Section Chief,
PM Operations

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
Ernest, Chiocca

BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

As noted in the last Fitness Report, I concur generally in the supervisor's ratings of Mr. Vitale's performance as listed; but I must again note that these are duties which could be performed by a moro junior clerical type and that Mr. Vitale should not be considered as performing GS-8 level Intelligence Assistant work at a Proficient rating. Indeed, he is, in my opinion, not qualified for such a roie and his official position title should be changed to prevent any misunderstanding as to the somewhat unique nature of his value to the Agency.

DATE 28 AUG 1967

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
C/WH/COG/MO

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME NO SIGNATURE
Robert A. Ortman

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
003620

SECTION A

1. NAME
   VITALE Guy

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX
   16 Oct 17 M

4. GRADE 5.SD
   GS-08 D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Intelligence Analyst

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
   DDP/WH/C Wash., D.C.

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER RESERVE
TEMPORARY INITIAL
REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
CAREER-PROVISIONAL
XXXXANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
SPECIAL (Specity):
SPECIAL (Specity):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

12. REPORTING PERIOD
    1 July 1965 - 30 June 1966

SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak
Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further waining, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate
Performance meet's all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor oxcellenco.

P - Proficient
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong
Performance is characterized by excoptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding
Performance is so exceptional In relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important saecific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the mannar in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY affectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Maintains project and agent 201 files for an extensive paramilitary program.
RATING LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Locates and maintains material for use in briefings and the conduct of liaison with other government agencies.
RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
Aids in conducting name traces and processing clearances.
RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
As Branch Records Officer, insures compliance with CS records directives, including authorization for destruction of CS documents.
RATING LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
RATING LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6
RATING LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, propestivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal waits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Sosad on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, placa the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately figer, this his loval of performance.
RATING LETTER
P

29 JUL 1966

FORM 45
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrarrept ppaition kooping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for made for improvement of work pefforinades, Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position... Amplily or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner al performance of managerial, or supervisory duties must be describad, if applicable.

JUL 26 4 07 PM 66

Mr. Vitale's principal qualification is his background knowledge of the operational history of Cuban paramilitary operations. This has afforded the branch considerable continuity. He is a very willing worker who gets along well with fellow employees. His knowledge of and experience in handling records and locating material makes him valuable in headquarters support of WH/Cuba paramilitary case officers- a task he performs in a loyal and dependable manner.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. 
BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE 11 July 1966

![signature of employee]

2. 
BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

F THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

10 months

DATE

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

C/WH/C/MO/PM

![signature of Bryan Mills] Bryan Mills

3. 
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I have had opportunity to observe subject's performance closely for nine months and while I generally concur in his supervisor's ratings of the duties as listed, it should be noted that these same duties could be performed equally well by a more junior Intel Clerk or Intel Assistant and, therefore, the overall rating as a GS-8 Intel Assistant does not accurately reflect his capability. In my opinion it would be very difficult, if not impossible, for subject to perform competitively with other Intel Assistants at a GS-8 level, and I recommend his position title be changed to Ops Support Assistant, a role in which he performs capably.

DATE 25 July 1966

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

C/WH/C/MO

![signature of Robert A. Ortman] Robert A. Ortman

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

# FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
003620

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Last)
VITALE, Guy

(First) (Middle)

2. DATE OF BIRTH
   16 Oct 17

3. SEX
   M

4. GRADE
   GS-08

5. SO
   D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Ops Officer

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT
   DDP/WH/C

8. CURRENT STATION
   Washington D.C.

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

RESERVO

TEMPORARY

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

INITIAL

X

ANNUAL

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See instructions - Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
    31 July 1965

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to-)
    1 July 64 - 30 June 65

SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W-Week Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires
positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on
probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor
excellence.

P-Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S- Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O-Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of
others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervise)

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Processes name traces and clearances; traces and maintains agent 201 files.

RATING
LETTER
O

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Conducts research for preparation of reports and plans.

RATING
LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

Maintains office files on a complex project.

RATING
LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Prepares cable or dispatch replies to name trace requests.

RATING
LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Records Officer - Insures compliance with CS records, directives and authorizes destruction of CS documents.

RATING
LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER
S

22 JUL 1965

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Included from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET
(When Filled In)

## NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

Mr. Vitale's longevity on the project makes his services increasingly valuable. This is particular true,in briefing and orienting new officers. He continues to do an exceptional job in assisting his office on a most complex project where many of his colleagues have transferred primarily because of the many demands and frustrations caused by this extraordinary project. Mr. Vitale continues to be a most loyal, cooperative and willing worker, getting along well with all hands. His maturity and many years of experience in his field, in addition to his great general knowledge, make him a most valued employee when compared to colleagues of similar rank. It is because of this that I have again rated Mr. Vitale very high. Although Mr. Vitale has no supervisory responsibilities and fully realizing his limited potential as a senior operations officer, I feel he is still ungraded and should be promoted to the next higher grade at the earliest opportunity. Because Mr. Vitale's job and performance have remained almost exactly the same as during the previous year, this fitness report is also very similar.

## CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

### BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

![signature of employee]

### BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE

13 July 65

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

46 months

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

C/WH/C/MO/PM

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

![signature]
Calvin Hicks

### BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The reviewing official does not use the same rating scale as the supervisor; therefore, would rate subject one letter lower in the first three duties and P in the overall performance. Subject is conscientious, pleasant and has an excellent "stay-on-the-job" approach.

DATE

20 July 1965

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

C/WH/C/MO

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

![signature]
Walter T. Cini

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
49300 66 565

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Last) VITALE (First) Guy (Middle)

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX 4. GRADE 5. 50
   16 Oct 17 M GS-08 D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Ops Officer

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
   DDP/SAS Washington, D.C.

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER X ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
RESERVE INITIAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYES
TEMPORARY SPECIAL (Specily):
CAREER PROVISIONAL (See instructions - Section C)
SPECIAL (Specily):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
    31 July 1964

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From to-)
    1 July 1963 - 30 June 1964

SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W- Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this catagory requires
positive ramedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on
probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor
excellance.

P- Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are boing produced in a proficient manner.

S- Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O- Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in ralation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of
others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the
manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees
with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Processes name traces and clearances; traces and maintains agent 201 files.

RATING
LETTER
O

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. &

Conducts research for preparation of reports and plans.

RATING
LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

Maintains office files on a complex project.

RATING
LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

Prepares cable or dispatch replies to name trace requests.

RATING
LETTER
P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

Records Officer - Insures compliance with CS records, directives and authorizes destruction of CS documents.

RATING
LETTER
P
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per-
formance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and
particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period,
place the letter in tha rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
14 AUG 1964:

RATING
LETTER
S

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVICUS EDITIONS.
4-42

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET
(When Filled In)
OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

SECTION C
NARRATIVE COMMENTS
Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.

MAIL ROOM

Mr. Vitale continues to do an exceptional job in assisting his office on a most complex project. His longevity on the project, coupled with his continued objectivity, makes his services increasingly valuable. This is in contrast to many of his colleagues who have transferred because of the many extreme demands and frustrations caused by this extraordinary project. Mr. Vitale continues to be a most loyal, cooperative and willing worker, getting along well with all hands. His maturity and many years of experience in his field, in addition to his great general knowledge, make him a most valued employee when compared to colleagues of similar rank.. It is because of this that I have again rated Mr. Vitale very high. In addition, and fully realizing his limited potential as a senior operations officer, I feel he is still undergraded and should be promoted to the next higher grade at the earliest opportunity.

SECTION D
CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

DATE
July 23, 64
SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
Larry Vitale

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN
UNDER MY SUPERVISION
BY SUPERVISOR
34 months
IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

DATE
OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
15 July 1964
C/WH/SA/MOB/PM
Calvin W. Hicks

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

Undersigned concurs in the ratings of the specific duties and performance in current position of Mr. Vitale. Mr. Vitale has been concerned with the Cuban effort for several years and his personal knowledge of past events is extremely helpful.

DATE
OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL
TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
28 July 1964
C/WH/SA/MOB
Colonel Arthur A. Maloney

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# FITNESS REPORT

SECRET

SECTION A

1. NAME

VITALE Guy

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Ops. Officer

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER RESERVE

GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX 4. GRADE 5. SD

16 Oct. 1917 Male GS-8 D

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION

DDP/S.A. S. Washington, D.C

15. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

TEMPORARY

INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

CAREER-PROVISIONAL

X ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

SPECIAL

11. DATE REPORT QUE IN O.P. 12. REPORTING PERIOD

31 July 1963 1 July 1962 to 30 June 1963

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W-Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate Performance meats all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P-Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S- Strong Porformance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O-Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which bast describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY offectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATING
LETTER

Processes name traces and clearances. Traces and maintains agent 3/0
201 files.

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

RATING
LETTER

Conducts research for preparation of reports and plans. S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATING
LETTER

Maintains office files on a complex project. S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

RATING
LETTER

Prepares cable or dispatch replies to name trace requests. P

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

RATING
LETTER

Records Officer - Insures compliance with Cs records, directives and authorizes destruction of CS documents. P

SPECIFIC OUTY NO. 8

RATING
LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Taka into account everything about the employee which Influences his effectiveness in his current position such as per- formance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personat traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflocts his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER

S

9 AUG 1962


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# SECRET

## SECTION C
### NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position.

Subject continues to do an exceptional job in assisting his office in the formulation of reports and plans by his research and ability to quickly make name traces and ferret out information from the various agency sources.

During the past year subject has continued to be a most cooperative, loyal and willing worker on a project that due to its nature is more frustrating, and demands more with less apparent return than most projects. As on his previous fitness report, I have rated him very high, primarily due to the fact that he's mature and many years experience with the Agency have made him of much more immediate value than most of his colleagues in the GS 7-9 level. Consequently, although he has made G3-8 within the past year, I feel he is still undergraded and should be promoted to GS-9 at the earliest opportunity.

## SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

1. 
|            |                       |
| ---------- | --------------------- |
| DATE       | SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE |
| June 13,63 |                       |

2. 
|                          |                                                                 |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN | BY SUPERVISOR                                                   |
| UNDER MY SUPERVISION     | IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION |
| 22 mths.                 |                                                                 |

| DATE       | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE |
| ---------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 12 June 63 | DC/SAS/NOB/EM                | Calvin W. Hicks                     |

3. COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

While not wishing to detract from the value of subject's duties or from the manner in which he performs them, I do have strong doubts as to whether the nature of his duties warrant promotion to GS-9 even if they were performed in an outstanding manner. During the next year additional duties of a more demanding nature will be placed on subject and I will want to weigh his performance under those circumstances before recommending promotion.

|         |                                      |                                     |
| ------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| DATE    | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE |
| 6/17/63 | C/SAS/MOS/FM                         | Charles W. Natt                     |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# SECRET

# FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
003620

# SECTION A

1. NAME
   VITALE Guy

# GENERAL

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX
   16 Oct. 1917 M

4. GRADE 5. SD
   G3-7 D

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Intell. Asst.

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
   DDP/FA/PF. Wash., D.C.

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT
   CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY
   CAREER PROVISIONAL
   SPECIAL (Specify):

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT
    INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
    ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE
    SPECIAL (Specily):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
    31 July 1962

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From-to-)
    1 Sept. 1961 to 30 June 1962

# SECTION B PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W-Weak Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment of to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P-Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S- Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O- Outstanding Performance is so excoptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

# SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insort rating latter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilitios MUST be rated on their ability to superviso (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Processes name traces and clearances - Traces and maintains agent 201 files.
RATING LETTER
S/0

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Conducts research for preparation of reports and plans.
RATING LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
Maintains office files on a complex project.
RATING LETTER
S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.4.
Prepares cable or dispatch replies to name trace requests.
RATING LETTER
A

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
Records Officer - Insures compliance with CS Records, Directives and authorizes destruction of CS documents.
RATING LETTER
A

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

# OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.
RATING LETTER
S

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET
(When Filled In)

SECTION C NARRATIVE COMMENTS
Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign-language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. *Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties must be described, if applicable.*

Subject has done an exceptional job in assisting his office in the formulation of reports and plans by his research and ability to quickly make name traces and ferret out information from the various agency sources concerned.

He at all times has been a most cooperative, loyal and willing worker with good security habits. Although, he does not have the ambition or drive to get to the top of the ladder that many younger officers may have (not everybody can or wants to be Chief, but can still be one of the best indians in the business), his great store of general knowledge and many years of agency experience have made him of much more immediate value than most of his colleagues in the GS-7-9 level. It is because of this that he has received such a high rating. Consequently, it is recommended that Mr. Vitale be promoted to the next higher grade at the earliest opportunity.

SECTION D CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS
1. BY EMPLOYEE
   I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT
   DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
   Aug 21, 1962 Guy Vitale
2. BY SUPERVISOR
   MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION
   10 MONTHS
   DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
   21 August 1962 TFW/PM/OPS C.W. HICKS
3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL
   COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE
21 August 1962 DC/TFW/PM C.W. MATT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# FITNESS REPORT

SECRET
(When Filled in)

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Last) (First) (Middle)

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEX

4. GRADE

5. SERVICE DESIGNATION 6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT

8. CAREER STAFF STATUS

NOT ELIGIBLE
MEMBER
DEFERRED
INITIAL
TYPE OF REPORT

REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR
PENDING
DECLINED
DENIED
ANNUAL
REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE

10. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
11. REPORTING PERIOD
    FROM
    SPECIAL (Specify)

SECTION B

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of employees supervised).

1 - Unsatisfactory 2 - Barely adequate 3 - Acceptable 4 - Competent 5 - Excellent 6 - Superior 7 - Outstanding

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

RATING
NO.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING
NO.

Research Work Required in the Preparation of Reports.

5

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING
NO.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING
NO.

Assistant to C/O (leg man)

5
Maintenance of Office Files

6

SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING
NO.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO.

RATING
NO.

Safehouse Keeper

7
Intel Ass't.

5

SECTION C

EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position - performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1 - Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2 - Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects.
3 - Performance clearly meets basic requirements.
4 - Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements.
5 - Performance in every important respect is superior.
6 - Performance in every respect is outstanding.

RATING
NO.

5

SECTION D

DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee

1 - Least possible degree 2 - Limited degree 3 - Normal degree 4 - Above average degree 5 - Outstanding degree

| CHARACTERISTICS                                                 | NOT APPLICABLE | NOT OBSERVED | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GETS THINGS DONE                                                |                |              |     |     |     |     | X   |
| RESOURCEFUL                                                     |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |
| ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                                        |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |
| CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES                  |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |
| DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                             |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |
| FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE                      |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |
| WRITES EFFECTIVELY                                              |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |
| SECURITY CONSCIOUS                                              |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |
| THINKS CLEARLY                                                  |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |
| DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS |                |              |     |     |     |     | X   |
| OTHER (Specify):                                                |                |              |     |     |     |     |     |

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

8-58

SEE SECTION 'E' ON REVERSE SIDE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

## SECTION E NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions made to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in SECTIONS B, C, and 9 to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Subject is very versatile and can be utilized effektively on an assignment involving heterogeneous duties. His ability to/function as an agent handler is extremely commendable. Subject is able to communicate equally well with "high or low level agents." He further demonstrated his usefulness in the preparation of research papers and the maintenance of files. Supervisor feels that Subject's productivity and effectiveness is dependent on whether he is in a position that he personally likes (It should be noted that Subject is 44 yrs old).

Subject has demonstrated that he can assume greater responsibilities. (During the period covered he travelled to Puerto Rico and New Orleans on assignments not under control of the Supervisor).

## SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

**1. BY EMPLOYEE**

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

DATE

28 Feb. 62

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

![signature of employee]

**2. BY SUPERVISOR**

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

9 months

![signature of supervisor]

IF REPORT IS NOT BEING DE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

EMPLOYEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAN 90 DAYS

REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST 90 DAYS

OTHER (Specify):

DATE

12 Feb 62

OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR

c/o

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

![signature of supervisor]

Thomas G. Clines

**3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL**

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOSER EVALUATION.

I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS. I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

![signature of reviewing official] Subject was assigned activities, for which reviewing official was responsible for a period of two months.

DATE

13 Feb 62

OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

![official title of reviewing official]

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

![typed or printed name and signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

# SECTION A GENERAL

1. NAME
   VITALE Guy
2. DATE OF BIRTH
   10/16/17
3. SEX
   M
4. GRADE
   GS-7
5. SERVICE DESIGNATION
   DS
6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Intelligence Assistant
7. OFF/DIV/RR OF ASSIGNMENT
   EE/Germany (casual)
8. CAREER STAFF STATUS
   MEMBER
9. TYPE OF REPORT
   REASSIGNMENT/SUPERVISOR
10. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.
11. REPORTING PERIOD
    From
    1 May 60- 15 Nov 60
    To
    ANNUAL
    REASSIGNMENT/EMPLOYEE

# SECTION B EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE OF SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating number which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of employees supervised).

1 - Unsatisfactory 2 - Barely adequate 3 - Acceptable 4 - Competent 5 - Excellent 6 - Superior 7 - Outstanding

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Process name traces
RATING
NO.
3
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
RATING
NO.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Process POA's.
RATING
NO.
4
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
RATING
NO.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
RATING
NO.
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6
RATING
NO.

# SECTION C EVALUATION OF OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position - performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the rating number in the box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

1. Performance in many important respects fails to meet requirements.
2. Performance meets most requirements but is deficient in one or more important respects,
3. Performance clearly meets basic requirements,
4. Performance clearly exceeds basic requirements,
5. Performance in every important respect is superior.
6. Performance in every respect is outstanding.

RATING
NO.
3

# SECTION D DESCRIPTION OF THE EMPLOYEE

In the rating boxes below, check (X) the degree to which each characteristic applies to the employee
1- Least possible degree 2 - Limited degree 3 - Normal degree 4 - Above average degree 5 - Outstanding degree

| CHARACTERISTICS                                                 | NOT APPLICABLE | NOT OBSERVED | 1   | 2   | 3   | 4   | 5   | RATING |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------ |
| GETS THINGS DONE                                                |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |        |
| RESOURCEFUL                                                     |                |              |     | X   |     |     |     |        |
| ACCEPTS RESPONSIBILITIES                                        |                |              |     | X   |     |     |     |        |
| CAN MAKE DECISIONS ON HIS OWN WHEN NEED ARISES                  |                |              |     | X   |     |     |     |        |
| DOES HIS JOB WITHOUT STRONG SUPPORT                             |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |        |
| FACILITATES SMOOTH OPERATION OF HIS OFFICE                      |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |        |
| WRITES EFFECTIVELY                                              |                |              |     | X   |     |     |     |        |
| SECURITY CONSCIOUS                                              |                |              |     |     |     | X   |     |        |
| THINKS CLEARLY                                                  |                |              |     |     | X   |     |     |        |
| DISCIPLINE IN ORIGINATING, MAINTAINING AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS |                |              | X   |     |     |     |     |        |
| OTHER (Specify):                                                |                |              |     |     |     |     |     |        |

SEE SECTION "E" ON REVERSE SIDE

FORM 45 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

## SECRET

SECTION E NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF MANNER OF JOB PERFORMANCE

Stress strengths and weaknesses demonstrated in current position. Indicate suggestions to employee for improvement of his work. Give recommendations for his training. Describe, if appropriate, his potential for development and for assuming greater responsibilities. Amplify or explain, if appropriate, ratings given in SECTIONS B, C, and D to provide the best basis for determining future personnel actions.

Mr. Vitale was assigned to the S&T Section of the Hoffman Branch on a casual basis from 1 May to 15 November 1960. His duties consisted entirely of processing name traces and POA's. Although he had little experience in this type of work, he performed his duties in a thoroughly satisfactory manner. He was always polite to his fellow employees and did his best to contribute to the smooth operation of the section.

SECTION F CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

1. BY EMPLOYEE

I certify that I have seen Sections A, B, C, D and E of this Report.

DATE SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

2. BY SUPERVISOR

MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

6 1/2 Already reassigned prior to preparation of this fitness report.

IF REPORT IS NOT BEING MADE AT THIS TIME, GIVE REASON.

EMPLOYEE UNDER MY SUPERVISION LESS THAN 90 DAYS REPORT MADE WITHIN LAST 90 DAYS

OTHER (Specify):

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

21 Nov 60 C/EE/G/S&T Herbert W. Natzke

3. BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE ABOUT THE SAME EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A HIGHER EVALUATION.

I WOULD HAVE GIVEN THIS EMPLOYEE A LOWER EVALUATION.

I CANNOT JUDGE THESE EVALUATIONS. I AM NOT SUFFICIENTLY FAMILIAR WITH THE EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE.

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

See attached sheet.

DATE OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE

23 Nov 60 C/EE/Germany William J Graver

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

Section 3. Comments of Reviewing Official:

This employee had no qualifications for assignment in the German desk or German operational field. He was carried in the German Branch in a casual status while an assignment suitable to his talents was being located. The fitness report for the period of his duty with the German Branch is accordingly only a record of the fact that he loyally and diligently carried out assigned tasks to the best of his ability.

![signature of William J. Graver]

William J. Graver
Chief, EE/Germany


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

Pre 1968 Fitness Report


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, EE Fersonnel

2 June 1960

SUBJECT : Commendation - Mr. Guy Vitale

1. The Eastern European Division Logistics Office wishes to commend Mr. Guy Vitale for the manner in which he conducted himself while on temporary assignment in this office. Rather than sit idle awaiting a new assignment, Mr. Vitale volunteered his services and was given various logistical general services Jobs and duties which he carried out with enthusiasm and effort rarely seen in a person in his status. We found him as an enthusiastic-willing worker who gave selflessly of his time and showed a strong devotion to duty.

2. A copy of this commendation should be made a part of the employee's permanent 201 file.

![signature]

S DANILUCK
Chief, EE Logistics

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

Pre 1960 7RQ &
certifications for insurance
and retirement


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET

# QUALIFICATIONS SUPPLEMENT TO PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

READ INSTRUCTIONS.CAREFULLY BEFORE COMPLETING TYPE OR PRINT AVOID USING LIGHT COLORED INKS

## BIOGRAPHIC AND POSITION DATA

|               |                   |                         |                  |                    |
| ------------- | ----------------- | ----------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------ |
| 1. ENE SER NO | 2. NAME           | 3. SEX                  | 4. DATE OF BIRTH | 5. SOME GRADE STEP |
| 083620        | VITALE GUY        | P                       | 10/16/17         | GS-08-05           |
| 6. SO         | 7. POSITION TILE  | 8. OFFICE OF ASSIGNMENT | 9. LOCATION      |                    |
| D             | INTELLIGENCE ASST | A.W.                    | WASH., D.C.      |                    |

## AGENCY OVERSEAS SERVICE

| AREA                        | TYPE TOUR   | FROM     | TO       |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | -------- | -------- |
| GREECE                      | PCS-52      | 97/01/01 | 60/01/24 |
| Vieques Island, Puerto Rico | TDY-10 days | 61/4/01  | 61/04/10 |

> [Figure: A box containing the information of Overseas Data]
> CODED
> DATE:
> 10 JUL 67
> INITIALS: APS

## EDUCATION

| DEGREE                      | MAJOR FIELD | COLLEGE | YEAR |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ------- | ---- |
| NO COLLEGE DEGREE ON RECORD |             |         |      |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# SECRET
When Filled In
EDUCATION (Cont'd)
HIGH SCHOOL

SECTION M

LAST HIGH SCHOOL ATTENDED ADDRESS (City, State, County)

COLLEGE OF UNIVERSITY STUDY

| NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY | SUBJECT | YEARS ATTENDED | DEGREE RECEIVED | YEAR RECEIVED | NO. SEM / QTR HRS (Specify) |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------- | -------------- | --------------- | ------------- | --------------------------- |
|                                            | MAJOR   | MINOR          | FROM TO.        |               |                             |
|                                            |         |                |                 |               |                             |
|                                            |         |                |                 |               |                             |
|                                            |         |                |                 |               |                             |
|                                            |         |                |                 |               |                             |

5. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED ABOVE WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT

TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OF SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO  | NO. OF MONTHS |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | --- | ------------- |
|                            |                         |      |     |               |
|                            |                         |      |     |               |
|                            |                         |      |     |               |

OTHER NON-AGENCY EDUCATION OR TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL              | STUDY OF SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO   | NO. OF MONTHS |
| --------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | ---- | ------------- |
| American Mission School, Athens, Greece | Greek Language          | 57/2 | 57/4 | 3 mo.         |
|                                         |                         |      |      |               |
|                                         |                         |      |      |               |

AGENCY-SPONSORED EDUCATION
Specify which, if any, of the education shown in Section III was Agency sponsored

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OF SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO  | NO. OF MONTHS |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | --- | ------------- |
|                            |                         |      |     |               |
|                            |                         |      |     |               |
|                            |                         |      |     |               |

SECRET
- 2 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET

SECTION A

MARITAL STATUS

PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, Annulled, Remarried. SPECIFY):

NAME OF SPOUSE:

DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country):

OCCUPATION PRESENT EMPLOYER:

CITIZENSHIP FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) COUNTRY(IES) DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED

SECTION X

DEPENDENT CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS OTHER THAN SPOUSE

| NAME | RELATIONSHIP | DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | PERMANENT ADDRESS |
| ---- | ------------ | ----------------------- | ----------- | ----------------- |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |
|      |              |                         |             |                   |


SECTION XI

PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

| NAME AND CHAPTER | ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Country) | DATE OF MEMBERSHIP |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
|                  |                                                | FROM TO            |
|                  |                                                |                    |
|                  |                                                |                    |
|                  |                                                |                    |


DATE

5 June '67

SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE

Guy Vitale


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

Pre 1960 - PHS, CLEARANCE request & appl. forms.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# RECORD OF

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT

SERVICE RETURNED TO

FEDERAL RECORDS CENTER IN

ST. LOUIS, MO.

DATE May 1970


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)