# SECRET

AAC-1622

16 APR 1968

Mr. Raymond F. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C.

Attention: Mr. Frank E. Bartos

Dear Sir:

SUBJECT: Miguel Angel DIAZ Isalgue (A 11 264 049)
DPOB: 14 February 1937, Matanzas, Cuba

Subject is a contract employee of this Agency engaged in activities in the furtherance of the national intelligence mission. He is scheduled to travel in the immediate future to Argentina and several other South American countries.

For operational reasons subject will be documented with a (Republic of Nicaragua) Passport Number 86781 and I-94, Arrival/Departure Record Card, in the name of Juan Hidalgo ELIZONDO Romano. The Form I-94 will be surrendered at the time of his departure from the United States.

It is requested subject be issued Form I-512, Reentry Document, under the name of Juan Hidalgo ELIZONDO Romano to permit his return to the United States. In this connection, there are enclosed two (2) photographs of subject.

Travel information will be submitted prior to subject's departure from the United States to permit control of Form I-94, Arrival/Departure Record Card. Your Service will be advised in advance of subject's return to the United States.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

Your cooperation in this matter is very much appreciated.

Sincerely,

Edmund L. Klipa

for Victor R. White
'Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Operational Support)
NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED
TO ANYONE WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

Enclosure.

OS/AS/LW:es 15 April 1968


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)