# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

25 September 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Report on Cuban Operations for period 1-15 September 61

This is the second summary report of activities in Cuban operations, and covers the period 1-15 September 1961. This report will consist of a breakdown of such operations into the principal categories of activity.

A. VI-CI Activity

1. Reporting to Headquarters. There was a total of twenty-eight reports received during the period, and they consisted of the following: Nine from CI sources, fifteen from debriefings conducted in the Plans area, two via the open mail, and two reports via diplomatic courier. Additionally, eleven CI reports were passed to the FBI, and 1,017 CI name checks were processed for INS.

2. Agent Activities and Developments

a. There was a total of eighteen agents within Cuba at the beginning of the reporting period and twenty-four by the period's close.

b. Comment: Of the seven agents dispatched legally during the period, one agent was a returnee. These agents should provide increased coverage of anti-Castro groups, activities at the airport and new entree into the diplomatic community.

c. Four agents were recruited and two agents were terminated during the period.

d. In cooperation with the German desk, we have initiated an operation to debrief Cuban sailors who pass through


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

- 2 -

the area. Clearances have been obtained for two Cubans who will act as coordinators for the operation.

e. AVCELT-1, a Uruguayan diplomat, has been recruited and has agreed to act as a courier for the intel net in Cuba. The agent is currently on his way to Cuba via boat.

f. AHOT-34, the principal agent/WT operator, using signal plan OGARIK, returned to Cuba via legal means on 6 September and was once again in radio communication with us as of 10 September. He is in contact with AMWARN-1, the principal agent of what remains of our intelligence net in Cuba.

g. Control of the OGARIK W/T communication link was passed to WAVE from Headquarters effective 14 September.

h. AMPALM-I was dispatched to Geneva to attempt to recruit Raul CASTRO Bonilla, Minister of the National Bank of Cuba, who is presently attending the sugar conference in Switzerland.

i. Jesus LOPEZ Guerrara, Cuban airline pilot who is disaffected with the Castro regime, is in contact with the Madrid Station and has agreed to cooperate and remain in place.

j. Arrangements are being made for a technical surveillance of the charge office in the Cuban Embassy, Montevideo.

D. Propaganda Activity

1. Major Efforts

a. Operation Bolivar. Designed to place sixty student/agents of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) exile group in universities throughout the Western Hemisphere. Progress: Three in place and twenty-one are processing.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

h. Operation Virgen del Cobra. Designed to exploit the 8 September anniversary of the Cuban patron saint as a day of mourning expressing opposition to Castro's attacks upon the church, religious freedom, and Cuban freedom. Progress: All local and Western Hemisphere assets alerted for the 8 September campaign. Sixty-five thousand pieces of propaganda were distributed for mailing throughout Latin America. The Cruzada Feminina Cubana (CFC) woman's group sent eight cables and 130 letters in the Latin American area. Through the joint efforts of the CFC and Catholics, mass and benediction services were held before 25,000 people in the Miami stadium. It was said to be a huge success.

c. After the recent Castro executions, an amnesty campaign was initiated on behalf of political and military prisoners. Progress: One hundred and eight cables and 220 letters were sent to Latin America by the Cuban affiliate groups.

2. Broadcasts

a. The Avance newspaper sponsored twenty-four thirty minute programs over WMIE, Miami, targeted against northern Havana and Matanzas provinces on general anti-Castro themes. Seven broadcasts ten and one half hours daily over short and medium wave.

b. We support a Cuban exile group producing a weekly thirty minute tape for distribution to a number of Caribbean basin stations, and a weekly fifteen minute tape for distribution through LAAB channels to Central and South American stations. At present some seventy stations participate in this operation.

c. WAVE has assumed contact role with local offices of Swan and radio broadcaster Luis CONTE Aguero through cutout.

d. Beginning 11 September, Luis CONTE Agnero began short wave broadcasts of thirty minutes daily on five frequencies beamed to all Central and South America and Caribbean basin.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

0. Maritime broadcaste vore cancelled for period for vessel maintenance. An electronte ensincer has been hired and construction of TV intrusion equipeout hae begun. This equipment will be used on the maritime broadcast and bo targeted against the Havane area.

1. Cuban Freedom Committee funded and directed to hours daily over WGBS, Miest, and ots hours daily Over WEAF, Key West.

3. Leaflets/Pamphlets. Produstien and distribution throughout the western Messisphore by sources:

a. Cuben exile groms:

1) DRE - 10,000

2) CPC - 15,000

3) FORD 20,000

b. WAVE printed 4,000 Grandes Mentiras (Big Lies) as first of a veries.

4. Foriodicale

a. Avanco, weakly newspaper: Tuo editions, 40,300 WM circulation.

b. Inforestica novolettor, weekly: Two aditions, 4,540 cireulation.

c. BAE Trinckera: One edition, 2,500 W8 circulation.

d. APJ Bulletin: Two editions, 16,000 Un circalation.

e. MR Balletin: Oce edition, 5,000 WH circulation.

f. FORD Bulletin: Ons edizion, 5,000 wy circulation.

g. $1 Mundo, workly newspaper: 3,000 per week in nomini-con Republic.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMOFOK: DEPUTY DIRRICK (PLANS)

30B-T: REPORT ON CUBENS OPERATIONS 1-15 Augt 61

h. Pohenia Libre, weekly magazine of over 170,000 UN circulation.

5. Tours and Travel - Cuben Group Representation

a. DRE. Two tours covering Brasil, Cruzusy, Argentina, and Chile.

b. CFC. Two tours covering Chile, Bolivia, Argentina, Fera, Ecuador, Colombia and Fanane.

e. Reriquo MUΣΣΤΑ. To κια medical congress.

d. Arrangements are in process to send a small variety troope to anico for propaganda valus. The perfor-cance will be filsed on 16 mm for sowasqwat general ase throughout Latin Aeerica.

e. Arrangements vera made with the State Department by WH/4/Security for the facilitation of re-entry into the United States of long-term Coban assets dispatchod on propaganda tours of Central and South America.

6. Cthar Activitios. Fieadquarters representative mat with Rojas Santararise, and discussed his plan for MAITOK project, i.c., establishment of phantom cells inside Ceba through modiwa of propaganda chain letters. Hend-quarters 19 studying the idea with a view to possibla trial-run on a small scale.

C. Political Action Aekivity

1. CRC. A beating was held 9 September with Dr. Miro Cardona at which time be was advised by bigher authority that our Government regarde the CRC as the control point of contact in its dealing with the Cuban exile and underground activity. A basic edaleistrative budget will be allocated, and it will in in the eighborhood of a million dollars por your. All other allocations of money will be on the basis of specific projects submitted by the Council and approved by the United States. The Cuban Council wil1 continue to broaden its bese allowing entry of all cu-stantial exile groups not identified with Batista or with


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

-6-

Communities. Groups not willing to work with the Council will be dealt with bilaterally (the United States and the group involved), but Dr. Miro will be kept informed of these activities. Such information will be kept in the strictest secrecy by Dr. Miro and his specially appointed assistant. If this arrangement should prove insecure, such contacts will terminate. All problems arising from Council activities will be discussed between the CRC and the Bureau of ARA of State Department. Dr. Miro will maintain his contact with the White House for cases wherein he considers such contact to be urgently necessary.

2. Additional Political Developments. After high level United States consideration and decision, Dr. Miro was informed, at a meeting on 16 September, that the responsibility for the organization and plans for exile Cuban jurists and lawyers would be his. In addition, to his future funding "salaries" of the existing ALABAU organization, $5,000 per month would be provided Dr. Miro or his designee retroactive to 1 August to support Dr. Miro's faction of lawyers to whom he has a long standing commitment. It was emphasized that this transfer of responsibility must be accomplished harmoniously, without adverse press reaction, or support of this work would be withdrawn. Col. Wendell Johnson was hired and will be placed in contact with Dr. Miro prior to 1 October. He will function as the day-to-day contact between Dr. Miro and this Agency and the United States Government. It was made clear to Dr. Miro that his demand for responsibility as exclusive channel to the other professional groups, i.e., students and labor, was rejected. He was told that any proposals he might wish to make in the student and labor fields would be welcomed as promoting harmony and eventual unity of Cuban exile anti-Castro elements.

D. Paramilitary Activity

1. Maritime Activity

a. Eight vessels, four Agency owned and four Cuban owned, are available to support this activity. Of the eight vessels, five were operational and three were undergoing


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

## SEGET

- 7 -

repairs during the period. The principal activity during the period revolved around preparation and support of operation YΞΑΒΑΣ, το το implemented 16 September.

b. The LCI, PARBARA-J, is now awaiting additional engineering and electrical work at the Jan Juan Drydock Company. Poley has been caused by the lack of priority and the induction of several Navy ships requiring urgent repairs.

c. Captain TIRADO has spotted a complete crea for the BARBARA J and crow noses and biographic date have been submitted to Headquartere for clearance.

d. The Cover and Commercial staff is engaged in pסי viding for the chipa registration, name change, and cover mechanica to allow for future finding and operation.

2. Agent Activities and Developments

a. There was a total of forty-tws M assets levolved in activities Caring the period. Inside Cuba there were two agenzo, a principal agent sad a radio cporator. Externally, there were forty agent assets composed of thirty-five FN types and five radio eperators.

b. Approval vas granted for the passage of R3-6 radio gear complete with signal plan, pada and crystala lato Cuba via AMELESS-3 chinnals which atilise a foreign diplomatic courier.

c. Approval was granted for the coodust of operation STIKE, an exfiltration operation to bo izplemented 21 Septeater.

d. Cn 9 Septester caren ANA?? agente vero terminated leaving a total of thirty in the group.

e. The internal PA/T operator ENRIQUE using signal plan MUTLOX reports that his group has been eperating a clandestine radio broadcast olese 12 Septaber (Radio


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

EVES ONLY
SECRET
-3-
Libertad) on 40 meter bead from 1300 to 1313 local time on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. We are attempting to verify this claim, and an announcement will be made over Voice of America as to the existence of the broadcasts.

## B. Training

1. Agents trained by close of period 15 September
   a. Total number of agents trained: 13
   b. Total number of agents in training: 26

2. FI-CA
   a. Agents trained in SW: 2
   b. Agents trained in tradecraft: 4

3. PA-FROP
   a. Agents trained to axit/prop: 4
   b. Agents in training in agit/prop: 9 (Includes two w/T radops.)
   c. Agents ready for training: 12

4. Paramilitary
   a. Agents in training: 17
   b. Type of training: Small boat handling, reception, reconnaissance techniques.

## P. Communications - Agent Type

1. Messages. VT: 15 total - 12 received, 3 sent by WAVE.

EYES ONLY
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

EYES ONLY
SECRET
- 9 -

G. Support

1. Bases

a. WAVE. Nineteen staff agents were processed at Headquarters and dispatched PCS to WAVE bringing the total of PCS personnel to 23 at the close of the period. The renovation of new offices at WAVE is complete.

b. RTEM. Now has responsibility for relaying all traffic to and from WAVE and crypto relay responsibility for all BAGR traffic. The Office of Communications has received their approved T/O for RTEM and have commenced personnel actions on approximately fifty personnel assigned at this installation.

c. The transfer of JMTIG to the Office of Logistics

1) Mr. Glen Laney, WH/4/Logistics, is now at JMTIG for the purpose of adjusting the inventory pending arrangements to be made to transfer all WM materiel held by JMTIG to Supply Division, Office of Logistics.

2) The Planning staff, Office of Logistics, has acted as coordinator in matters pertaining to personnel, finance, cover and security, the majority of which have been or will be settled shortly.

3) Present plans contemplate the release of JMTIG to the Office of Logistics on 1 October 1961.

d. All materiel at JMTIDE has been inventoried and prepared for shipment. Although the intended carrier, the ship JOHAN, arrived at JMTIDE on 13 September, loading was delayed due to the presence of foreign shipping in the area. It is anticipated that loading will commence on or about 18 September and will be completed within four days.

SECRET
LY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

- 10 -

a. JMBARR. A draft of a lease agreement for the JMBARR property has been prepared and forwarded to the owner of the real estate for final approval.

2. Finance

a. Answers have been received from various sources regarding our queries for new Cuban pesos. Two sources are in the process of procuring pesos in the amount of $10,000 U.S. dollars.

b. The funding for JINX is in process. Mr. Fail, WH/4/Finance, is at WAVE to establish a commercial set of records for maintenance by the field office.

c. Total FY 1962 obligations through 13 September for Cuban operations are $4,675,933.00. Of this total, $1,674,775.00 represents payments for the maintenance of the CEC and payments for dependents of the strike force through September.

There is a special intelligence annex to this report, "Counter-revolutionary Activities in Cuba," for the period 1-15 September, issued separately.

J. C. KING
Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division

DDP/WH/4/Plans: W.R. Dinsmore/bh (27 September 1961)

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/OPC
1 - A/DDP/A
1 - C/AID
1 - WH/COP3
1 - C/WH/4
2 - WH/4/Plans


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)