# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

9 June 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Acting Director of Central Intelligence

VIA: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Conversation between President Lopes Mateos of Mexico and Mr. Winston Scott, Chief of Station, Mexico

REFERENCE: MXII 5693 (IN-43514), dated 8 June 60

1. This memorandum contains a suggestion, in Paragraph 3, for the consideration of the DCI.

2. On the night of 7 June, President Lopes Mateos requested Mr. Scott to inform "his good friend, President Eisenhower," of the following:

A. That the President is a friend of the United States, "not only because of necessity but of genuine desire and ideology".

B. That the invitation to President Dorticos of Cuba was extended two weeks after it was indicated that Dorticos was going to Mexico "on his own", through the Mexican Ambassador in Cuba.

C. That he will not invite Fidel Castro to Mexico even though Cuban Ambassador Jose Antonio Portuondo told President Lopes Mateos that Dorticos will request an invitation for Castro.

3. President Lopez Mateos also asked that President Eisenhower be informed that he is delighted that a decision has now been made to get rid of Castro. The DCI may wish to inform the President of the above.

4. President Lopes Mateos was indirectly informed of CIA intentions in regard to Castro through a conversation between Mr. Scott and Jose Lorenzo Cossio, Advisor to the Mexican President, who informed Mr. Scott that President Lopes Mateos would not invite Castro to visit Mexico, even though Dorticos is going to ask him to do so. Mr. Scott suggested that if the Mexican President helped CIA to achieve the overthrow of Castro, he would not have to deal with the problem of inviting Castro to Mexico.

J. C. King
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

cc: DCI
DDP


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)