# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

JOHN SEARS:ch
RIG: WH/COG/OPS
JIT: 5061/1255
DATE: 9 May 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF: WHB FILE, VR. (2/1, FURG, DLC, CL 11/095, F124

SECRET

09 22 242 MAY 69

TO PRIORITY MADRID, MEXICO CITY, WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMCHALK

REF: DIRECTOR 00402

1. AT HQS REQUEST WODISH CONTACTED "BROTHER-IN-LAW"
   MENTIONED PARA 1 REF 9 MAY. TURNS OUT THIS INDIVIDUAL,
   DR. MARTIN PELLA, FORMERLY A REGULAR WODISH (SOURCE), IS NOT GUIN'S BROTHER-IN-LAW. PELLA TOLD WODISH FOLLOWING: HIS BROTHER-IN-LAW, FELIX SUAREC (AS RECEIVED FROM WODISH), DEFECTED MEXICO ABOUT ONE MONTH AGO. HE IS THE ONE HOLED UP IN A MEXICO CITY HOTEL, THOUGH THIS TIME PELLA DID NOT MENTION THE PANUCO. PELLA SAYS SUAREC TOLD HIM BY PHONE THAT COMANDANTE RAMON GUIN HAD HELPED HIM GET OUT OF CUBA, WHERE SUAREC HAD BEEN WITH "MINISTRY OF INDUSTRY ON PROJECT DOUNG COMPUTER COMPILATION OF MILITARY AND INDUSTRIAL FIGURES WHICH BEING PROGRAMMED INTO SOME SYSTEM DEALING WITH TRADE AGREEMENTSS SUAREC HAD PREVIOUSLY BEEN WITH "PETROLEUM INSTITUTE." SUAREC ALLEGEDLY TOLD PELLA THAT HE THINKS GUIN ALSO WANTS TO LEAVE COUNTRY "BUT DOESN'T HAVE THE MEANS".

CS COPY

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

GROUP T
Excluded tran artometic
Goangriding

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS FROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

• PAGE TWO

2. RECHECK REF PARA 2 VISA REQUEST SHOWS RAMON TOMAS GUIN DIAZ'S ADDRESS AS "IN CUBA", WITH HIS WIFE, MARGARITA MARIA EMILIA (ARENAL) VEGA, IN SPAIN. HOWEVER, STILL APPEARS REFERENCE TO TRAVEL OF RAMON GUIN ARENAL(WHICH REPORTED AS "INTENDED") PER PARA 5 REF MAY PERTAIN TO SUBJ, THOUGH COULD ALSO BE HIS SON. AS OF MARCH 66 SUBJ WAS REPORTED TO HAVE TWO CHILDREN (SEX UNKNOWN) BY HIS WIFE DAISY (LNU). HOWEVER NOTE DAISY IS ENGLISH TRANSLATION OF FLOWER "MARGARITA", SO WAS POSSIBLY NICKNAME OF MARGARITA ARENAL. HQS HAS NO TRACES MARGARITA OR DAISY ARENAL OR ON ARENAL'S FATHER VICENTE WHO PER VISA REQUEST RESIDES LOS ANGELES.

3. HMMA 36756 REPORTED ONE FELIX SUAREZ MORE TRAVELLED CUBA-MEXICO 5 MARCH €9 ON CUBAN PP 130637. PELLA'S REPORT INDICATES SUAREC MAY BE OF DEBRIEFING INTEREST. PELLA ALSO SAID SUAREC HAS SON IN DENVER, AND SENATOR DOMINICK OF COLORADO ATTEMPTING ARRANGE SUAREC'S ENTRY INTO U.S. BELIEVE SUAREZ IS IDEN WITH FELIX (SUAREZ) MORE, CITED IN UFGA 26404, 25 NOV 66. THIS DISPATCH FORWARDED DEBRIEFING REPORT OF FORMER MININD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

FILE . VR.

(classification)
SECRET

(date and time filed)
CITE DIRECTOR 00801

PAGE THREE

IBM PROGRAMMERX WHO SAID SUAREZ MORE, DOB CIRCA 1916, HAD
SON IN U.S. AND WAS PROGRAMMER AT "DIRECCION DE SISTEMAS Y
ORGANIZACION" OF MININD.

4. VIEW ALL ABOVE, BELIEVE MEXICO CITY CAN FORGET ABOUT
   GUIN DIAZ. WOULD APPRECIATE (MADRID) STATION, EITHER THROUGH
   QUKETCH OR STATION OFFICER USING (EMBASSY COVER) ATTEMPT ARRANGE
   ROUTINE INTERVIEW WITH ARENAL PEGGED TO VISA REQUEST. GUIN'S
   TRIAL WAS WIDELY PUBLICIZED. OUR IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE IS
   ASCERTAIN GUIN'S CURRENT STATUS AND INTENTIONS, AND ACCOUNT
   FOR WHY MAN SENTENCED YEARS NOW APPARENTLY OUT OF JAIL
   AND APPARENTLY CONTEMPLATING BEING ABLE EXIT CUBA.

END OF MESSAGE

JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI
RELEASING OFFICER

CS COPY
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)