# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: STEPHEN
UNIT: IC/WE/A/1
INFO:
DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, CCS 2, FI, CE 4, SAS 8, RE 2

ROUTINE: 62932

KEYWAY PERUEN
REP ROMB 9965 (IN 01475)*

1. RECENT TALKS WITH AMMHIP 1 IN NEW YORK RE TRAVEL PLANS INDICATE PLANS
   BUSINESS TRIPS EUROPE THREE FOUR TIMES ANNUALLY SPENDING CIRCA TWO WEEKS EACH
   TRIP IN ITALY. ROUTINE BUSINESS HATTERS CAN BE EXPECTED OCCUPY CONSIDERABLE
   PORTION HIS TIME IN ITALY. WHILE AMIHIP 1 CONSIDERED ASTUTE ASSET WITH GOOD
   POSSIBILITIES ACCESS PERUMEN TARGETS ITALY, HOS DOUBTFUL HE CAT MEET STA NEEDS
   FOR ASSET WHO IS READILY AVAILABLE FOLLOW UP LEADS, DEVELOP CLOSE RAPPORT TARGET
   PERSONALITIES IN RESIDENCE OR IN TRANSIT, MAKE PITCHES WHEN CHANCE ARISES
   NECESSARILY LONG INTERVALS BETWEEN HIS STAYS ITALY WILL BREAK RHYTHM OF OP
   DEVELOPMENT AND MAKE HIM UNAVAILABLE TO ASSESS RECRUIT JIEN LEND MATURES IN
   MATTER OF WEEKS.

2. ALSO SINCE HOS USES AMWHIP 1 OTHER AREA OPERATIONS, IT NECESSARY GUARD
   AGAINST CONTAMINATING HIS CLEAN REPUTATION WITH PARUCH FEGIME THROUGH COM
   MENDABLE BUT OVERLY ZEALOUS EFFORTS HIS PART TO DO HOST FOR STA IN TIE AVAILABLE.
   FII, WHILE CONSIDERED SHREND SOPHISTICATED, HE HAS TOUCH OF COACH FRAUEN
   WEAKNESS OF BELIEVING HAND WILL NEVER ES CAUGHT IN COCKIE JAR AND CAN ALWAYS
   EXTRICATE SELY WITH PLAUSIBLE DENIAL.

-B-C-R-E-T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PAGE TWO

3. CONCUR STA DECISION PUMARIEGA.

4. PRIENA FINAL DECISION BELL, WISH SUGGEST ANOTHER POSSIBILITY, I.E.,
   RECRUITMENT IDEN C OF DIR 44488, 4 JUNE 63. IDEN C HAS FOA, IS VOUCHED FOR BY
   AMSHIP 1, AND EXPECTS TRAVEL ROME AT LEAST ONE WEEK PER MONTH TO ATTEND TO
   AMSHIP STORE. NEGATIVE FACTORS ARE HE IS UNKNOWN QUANTITY TO KUBAEK REGARDING
   OP POTENTIAL, SUITABILITY FOR AND INTEREST IN CLANDESTINE ACTIVITIES. ON
   POSITIVE SIDE, AMSHIP 1 SAYS HE MOTIVATED HELP ANTI-REGIME ACTIVELY, AND HE
   PROBABLY PERSONA GRATA PERUMEN TYPES ON SAME BASIS AS AMSHIP SIKKE, UNLIKE
   BELL, DID NOT DEFECT PUBLICALLY AND NOT BEEN OVERILY ACTIVE ANTI-REGIME MOVEMENTS.

FURTHER, HIS PROXIMITY ROME AND FREQUENT VISITS WOULD GIVE STA CHANCES TRY HIM
OUT BEFORE COMMITMENTS AND, IF STA FINDS HAS APTITUDE AND IS WELCOME PERUMENS
ITALY, HE COULD BE CALLED DOWN ON SPUR OF MOMENT FOR SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENTS IN
ADDITION TO REGULAR VISITS.

5. MAIN PROBLEMS WITH BELL APPEAR TO BE (A) LACK PROOF HIS ACCEPTABILITY
   TO FRIMERS (B) COVER TO BE USED HIS PERMANENCE ROME. IDEN C SEEMS OFTEN
   POTENTIAL MIDDLE GROUND BETWEEN AMSHIP 1 AND BELL. COVER IS ALREADY ESTABLISHED
   PROXIMITY IS ADEQUATE FOR REGULAR DEVELOPMENT TARGETS; ACCEPTABILITY TO
   FRIMERS AND APTITUDE FOR WORK CAN BE TESTED WITHOUT TAKING DETAILED ANTECEDENTS
   AND COMMITMENTS, AS WOULD BE CASE WITH BELL.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM, DIRECTOR

PAGE THREE

6.  IP STA WISHES CHECK IDEN C OUT, RECOMMEND FOLLOW UP SOONEST SINCE
    STILL WISH FALL BACK ON BELL, SUGGEST STA OFFICER SHOULD TRAVEL SUISSE VISIT
    IDEN C OUTLINE PROPOSALS. NOTE HOWEVER HOS DOES NOT WISH ANWHIP 1 NAME BE USED.
    REALIZE THIS MAKES APPROACH BIT MORE DIFFICULT BUT BELIEVE IDEN C WELL AWARE
    ODYOKE INTEREST OBTAIN HELP ALL POSSIBLE SOURCES PERUMEN OPS AND WILL ACCEPT
    STORY HIS NAME AROSE DURING CHECK BY ODYOKE OF PERUMEN EXILES RESIDENT
    NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES AND VISITING ITALY PERIODICALLY. THOUGH KUBARK SUISSE
    HAS NO CONTACT IDEN C, PLS CABLE BERN GENVA INFO DIR PLANNING IF STA DECIDES VISIT
    IDEN C AND COORDINATE ON ARRIVAL SINCE THEY MAY WISH USE LOCALLY IN ADDITION TO
    OR IN LIEU OF ITAL USE.

7. FYI: IP IDEN C UNSUITABLE AND WISH PROCEED WITH BELL, BELIEVE
   ESSENTIAL SEND HIM ROME TLY PRIOR FINAL COMMITMENT TO ASCERTAIN CAPABILITIES
   AND ACCEPTABILITY PERUSES THERE, WHILE FINAL COVER FOR RESIDENCE WOULD BE
   RESPONSIBILITY STA AND DEVIGIL, WOULD ATTEMPT ARRANGE COVER FOR TOY THROUGH
   KUVEST. KUVEST INDICATES SUCH COVER POSSIBLE THOUGH HAVE NOT TALKED CONCRETE
   TERMS PENDING DECISION IDEN C AND DEFINITE NEED FOR BELL.

END OF MESSAGE

... prefers defer decision on BELL to get better reading ANWHIP/1 possibilities.

SAS/EOB - Mr. Wainwright(coord in draft)

C/MR/DT
AC/MR/N


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)