# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

..

sauce: adso

ZBI

The attention of our Paris station has been directed to the
possibility that Mr. J. Edgar Hoover be notified
Director, be transmitted to you immediately upon your request.
Federal Büreau of Investigation
U. S. Department of Justice

Dear Mr. Hoover:

With reference to your letter of 11 June 1947 requesting
information on policy matters discussed by Foster and certain
members of the Central Committee of the French Communist Party
in Paris, I should like to summarise the action taken by this
organisation on Foster's trip. All stations on Foster's
itinerary were alerted during the British Empire Conference with
emphasis placed upon Foster's contacts and the content of his
conversations with foreign Communist officials at Paris, Belgrade,
and Prague.

The first reaction from Paris reported Foster's meeting with
Thorez and Duclos on 7 March and a planned meeting for the next
day with other members of the Central Committee (this information
was distributed to you in DB-3658 on 4 April 1947). No adequate
follow up on this original report was subsequently produced - a
fact to be accounted for primarily by the hesitation of the Surete
Nationale, for political reasons, to give Foster's visit adequate
investigative attention (as reported to you in DB-4777 of 1 July
1947).

Information on the policy matters discussed at this meeting,
however, was included in a report from M.I.6, Section V. in May
(copy enclosed herewith). Although the source of this report did
not know precisely what happened at this meeting because great
secrecy was observed, he mentioned several specific topics
allegedly under discussion. This report was not forwarded to you
since it was assumed the report was handed directly to your London
representative by the British.


by hand

to Director

1 Aug. +7





10446

Pittman


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

15-4
The attention of our(Paris)station has been directed to the actual conversations that took place in this Paris meeting, and there remains a possibility that a verification or expatision of the I.6 report will be obtained, such additional information will, of course, be transmitted to you immediately upon its radipt.

Sincerely,

de Balosre


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECNF

COUNTRY: Italy/Yugoslavia/France/3t.Britain/USA

SUBJECT: William Zebulon FOSTAR

ORIGIN: [London] 15-1

DATE OF INFO: As stated

DATE: May 15, 1947

15-9

"On 15.3.47, our representative in (Rome) reported that FOSTER had arrived there on 14.3.47. for a stay of a few days."

"On 1.4.47., we heard from Belgrade that gooording to logal press reports of 25.5.47., FOSTER had left Jugoslavia on 24.3.47. No details were given regarding his destination, but the press report mentioned that he had been accompanied by Tim BUCK, Leader of the Labour Progressive Party of Canada."

"A report dated 1.4.47 from Paris, stated that after the British Communist Party Congress in London, several important delegates had arrived in Paris among whom were William Z. FOSTER, Tim BUCK, LAHAUT, Chief of the Belgian Communist Party, who had not been in London, and who arrived direct from Brussels, and Harry FOLLITT, At the same time several Communist delegates who had been present at the W.I.D.F. Congross in Prague, had also arrived in Paris, including Nina POPOVA, the U.S.S.R. delegate, as well as delegates from Greece, Brazil, Cuba, and the Viet-Nam. Our source, however, does not know names of any except those mentioned."

"Several meetings were held at the Headquarters of the Central Committee of the French Communist Party at 44, rue Le Peletier. At one of these meetings the following were known to have been present:- William FOSTER, Tim BUCK, Dolores BARRURI, Nina POPOVA, Maurice THOREZ, Andre MARTY, Jacques DUCLOS, AUVAIS, CACHIN, BERLIOZ, FRACHON, MONMOUSSEAU, RAJON, Robert PETIT, and Also George WILLIAMS & MICHAILOV, Comintern Delegate."

* John PITTMAN, Paris correspondent of the American 'Da ly Worker' had acted as interpreter. Although our source does not know much of what happened at this meeting because great secrecy was bbserved, he states that the meeting was concerned with uniting of world democratic forces against international reaction. In this connection, the French Communist leaders are said to have very much regretted the difficulty of bringing about the union between the American Federation of Labour, and the Congress of Industrial Organizations in the U.S.A.

BEONF

ENCL.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

"Jacques. DUCLOS made a special report emphasizing that this was one of the most important tasks to be carried out by the Communiste within the C.I.O.

"Besidós the above, the question of Greece and Turkey was discussed, notably the question of boycotting of war materials sent to those countries.

"Finally, the different speakers spoke of the necessity of defendi: the U.S.3.R. by all possible means.

"Andre MARTY is said to have specially dealt with the question of labour in the colonies, emphasising the necessity of bringing about unity of action among the blacks, throughout the Arican Continent, o. g., ir. French, British and Belgian possessiona.

"The above, according to our source, were the principal points which had been studied during the various moetings of Communist chfofa in Paris.

"We understand that all other details about FOSTER's arrival and departure from this country have already been passed to you by
8. I. 5."
24


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)