# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1963 (EXTRACT - LOS ANGELES
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL IS IP-RE)
SUBJECT: MELO RICARDO (a/k/a) IS JMSD A-MAN-CIA
FBI FILE NO: 105-8452 (LOS ANGELES)

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1963
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: 105-5142 (MIAMI)

***

DATE: 24 OCTOBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 18 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR (GROUP OF ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA)
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 18 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: BOMBING ACTIVITIES BY CUBAN EXILES
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855

DATE: 14 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: CUBAN POWER (PC)
MIRR
FBI FILE NO: 105-15556; 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 12 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; THREE MEN ALLEGED TO
HAVE LEFT THE NEW YORK AREA AUG..16 68
TO PLACE A BOMB NEAR THE WHITE HOUSE...
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

DATE: 23 SEPT 1968 CLASS: HOME SECRET
SUBJECT: CUBAN POWER (PC) FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN
(LOS ANGELES)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DATE: 6 SEPTEMBER 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: RAMON SANCHEZ; EXPLOSION ABROAD
FBI FILE NO: 6-1146 (MIAMI)

DATE: 29 AUGUST 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA JOSE ROLAN CUBANO (CUBAN POWER)
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 28 AUGUST 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, ALSO KNOWN AS CUBAN POWER
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 18 AUGUST 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 16 AUGUST 1968 (EXCERPT - COPY AVAILABLE IN IP/AR)
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SUBJECT; EXPLOSION IN ENGINE ROOM OF BRITISH FREIGHTER "GRANWOOD"...
FBI FILE NO: 45-1156 (MIAMI) 4 MAY 68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station: Panama City

Chief of Sec.: JBCOMR/

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Origin of a Telegram Concerning the Movimiento Insurreccional de
Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR) and Fuegos Cubanos. Headed by
Orlando BOSCH Avila (201-286262)

Action: Panama City: See Paragraph 3

JBCOMR/ : See Paragraph 4

References: A. DSC-23508, dated 18 July 1968 (Not sent Panama
City or JBCOMR/)

B. DSC-23423, dated 23 July 1968 (Not sent Panama
City or JBCOMR/)

1.  The Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR--Insurrectional Movement of Revolutionary Recovery) is an anti-Fidel Castro organization of Cuban exiles headquartered in Miami, Florida, under the leadership of Orlando BOSCH Avila, who has been involved in numerous revolutionary acts, some of which have involved violence. He allegedly issues press releases and other communications which are signed "Ernesto, General Delegate, Cuban Power."

2. On 7 July 1968, the following communication was sent via Tropical Radio Telegraph Company, Panama City, Panama, to the Associated Press in Miami, as follows:

"OAR889

*   A TIPI15 VIA TETECEC REA117 SECRC KPA183 PRE300
*   UTMI NL PAPA 54
*   PANAMARP VIATROPICAL 54 7 1838
*   LF
*   MR TED EDIGER
*   ASSOCIATED PRESS
*   2125 BISCAYNE BLVD MIAMI/FLA
*   WING MIAMI VITAL CENTER CUBAN EXILES WE INFORM YOU
*   CUBAN POWER IS FULLY RESPONSIBLE SABOTAGES HAVANA'S
*   RICO OIL REFINERY AND CEINTE'S FEED FACTORY STOP ALL
*   MAN SAFE STOP CONSIDERAGES LOSSES AND DAMAGES ON
*   GOVERNMENT PROPERTY STOP HAVANA MAKING LONG REPORT ON
*   DAMAGES STOP

"ERNESTO

Distribution:

O & I - COS, Panama City

201-299292

12 AUG 1968

Typed: 7 August 1968

201-299292

Art Kamm (In Draft)

I. Roman

Edwin M. Farrell

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CONTRIBUTION OF

## SECRET

*   CPB 2125
*   AP KIA INT
*   1000P EDT

Investigation reflects that BOSCH has a friend or representative of his organization in Panama, name and address unknown. Circumstances indicate that BOSCH may have telephoned or cablegrammed this individual on or about 7 July 1966, from Miami, Florida, requesting that the above-quoted telegram be transmitted.

3.  Headquarters received the above information from LAERGO accompanied by a request to initiate appropriate inquiries in Panama City in an effort to determine the sender of the aforementioned transmission and also to discover if Orlando BOSCH Avila or one of his immediate associates may have been responsible for having this message sent. LAERGO cautioned that its role as the source of the above information should not be revealed in making the requested inquiries, though the data itself could be utilized.

4.  If feasible, it is requested that JNCOBRA check its sources and report any information which connects BOSCH or any of his associates with the transmission of the above-quoted telegram.

Alice J. BORCHSENIUS

![CS CCY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

FI: DOCUMENTS

DATE: 15 JULY 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 22 JULY 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER...
FBI FILE NO: (LA) 97-4474 (WASH.D.C.)

DATE: 27 JUNE 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 20 JUNE 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER...
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 20 JUNE 1968
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR, AKA CUBAN POWER...
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# S E C R E T

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief. WH Division

JTOBIOR - LYNXGO Report (JMWC-81611) possible bombing of a plane from Nassau to Cuba.

The following paragraphs were extracted from a detailed report on the activities of Dr. Orlando BOSCH Avila, a Cuban medical doctor and head of the anti-Castro revolutionary organization, MIRR, and resident in the U.S.I

"On June 10, 1968, WH T-3 reported that BOSCH claims to have a man in Nassau, Robert islands, who is checking British flights used by Cuban United Nations personnel traveling from New Park City to Cuba. WH T-3 expressed the belief that this procedure is a preliminary survey to some form of action, possibly the bombing of a plane going from Nassau to Cuba with Cuban United Nations personnel aboard."

"On June 17, 1968, WH 9-3 reported that BOSCH had declared that he intends to continue bombing ships of countries trading with Cuba. On June 19, 1968, BOSCH disclosed to WH T-3 that he was seen in New Park City, Tampa, and Miami who are checking out BOSCH's plan to bomb ships."

![photo of map]

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - COS, JMWAVE

201-299292

1 August 1968

189-9-1

WH/1/JAM: KRW:ctp
4123/1349

1 - JATS Chrono
1 - 189-9-1
1 - DC/WH/Chg
SC/WH/CI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

F-I DOCUMENTS

DATE: 14 JULY 1967
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 3 JULY 1967 (CROSS REFERENCE SHEET -
DOCUMENT AVAILABLE IN ITEM 68 - MIRR)
CLASS: NOT KNOWN
SUBJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: NOT KNOWN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

FBY DOCUMENTS

DATE: 8 APRIL 1968
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
BURJECT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 26 JULY 1967
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: FRANK ANGELO FIORINI;
DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA; ....
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1967
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MOVIEMENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE
F
RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

O. WILLIAMS: JAP
WH/COG/CICS/OS
9044
28 APRIL 67

SECRET
153

RID COPY

SECRET
201-2992921
201-7266087

9704
CITE DIRECTOR

PRIORITY JHAAVE

1.  FOLLOWING PERSONS WILL BE CHARGED WITH VIOLATION

ARMS CONTROL ACT, CONSPIRACY, NEUTRALITY ACT. U.S.

ATTORNEY MIAMI WILL PROBABLY PRESENT THE CASE TO THE GRAND

JURY 15 MAY 1967.

A. ORLANDO BOSCH Y AVILA (201-299292) DPOB 18 JULY 1926, SANTA CLARA, CUBA. RESIDING 1849 N.W. 35TH STREET, MIAMI.

B. LOUIS CONCEPTION BERTOT AGE 36,
RESIDING 910 N.W. 29TH AVE, MIAMI.

C. JOSE ANTONIO MULET Y GONZALES (201-726604) DPOB 31 DECEMBER 1921, SANTIAGO DE CUBA, RESIDING 201 N.W. 35TH STREET, MIAMI.

D. JOSE DIAZ Y MOREJON DPOB 23 MARCH 1942, CUBA,
RESIDING 72 1/2 S.W. 11TH STREET, MIAMI.

E. MARCOS RODRIGUEZ Y RAMOS DPOB 16 JUNE 1944, CUBA. RESIDING 227 N.W. 17TH AVENUE, MIAMI.

F. BARBARO DALAN Y GARCIA DPOB 4 DECEMBER 1936,
CUBA. RESIDING 735 S.W. 1ST STREET, MIAMI.

201-728607

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

RECEIVEL
RID/IM-S E C R E T

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR 97049

G. ARTHUR ANDREW GERTEIT RESIDING 890 N.W. 45TH
AVENUE, MIAMI. (POSSIBLY @ WITNESS RATHER THAN @ DEFENDANT
IN CASE).

2. PLEASE FORWARD PRIOR COB @ MAY 67 ANY TRACES NOT
   ALREADY AVAILABLE HQS ON SUBJECTS PARA 1.

3. JHWAVE'S COMMENTS ARE REQUESTED ON POSSIBLE EFFECT
   THIS TRIAL ON STATION'S OPERATIONS AND SECURITY IN SAME
   CONTEXT AS NASFERRER CASE. HEADQUARTERS ALSO INTERESTED @
   KNOWING WHETHER OR NOT ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE OF ANY KIND
   EVER EMPLOYED AGAINST THESE INDIVIDUALS (INCLUDING SURREPTI-
   TIOUS RECORDING OF. SGSWIRL INTERVIEW).

END OF MESSAGE

![signature] flores
WILLIAM V. BRON
C/WHD

![signature] C/WH/COG/
![signature] C/WH/COG/CICS
THOMAS J. FLORES
C/WH/COG

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE. PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# 14-00000

HASSIRE

CLASS IF HED MESSAGE

# SECRET

LENKG-P

FILE

720P. 3-29-67 FBC

TO SECRETARY OF STATE 2

TO DIRECTOR CIA 1

TO DIRECTOR DIA 1

TO DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY 1

TO DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE

TO WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM, ATT.: SECRET SERVICE (P1A)

FROM DIRECTOR FBI

MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE

RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR)

INTERNAL SECURITY - CUBA

NEUTRALITY MATTER - CUBA

> [Figure: Microfilmed stamp]

(SECRET)

MIRR IS AN ANTI-CASTRO ORGANIZATION HEADED BY DR. ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND HAS CONDUCTED RAIDS AGAINST CUBA IN THE PAST.

ANOTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY WHICH CONDUCTS INTELLIGENCE INVESTIGATIONS ON MARCH TWENTYTHREE, SIXTYSEVEN, ADVISED THAT AN ANONYMOUS TELEPHONE CALL HAD BEEN RECEIVED ON MARCH FIFTEEN, SIXTYSEVEN, STATING AN AMERICAN PILOT INTENDED TO RENT AN AIRPLANE IN APEL SIXTYSEVEN, AND DROP SEVERAL ONE HUNDRED POUND BOMBS OVER CUBA FOR ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA.

D-19-300-20

> [Figure: CS COPY SECRET stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET 3/3, Page 2

THE ALGALROUS PERSON ON MARCH TWELVE, SIXTYSEVEN, AGAIN CALLED AND CLAIMED THAT THEIR TARGET WOULD BE PURTO ALLEGRO, CUBA. FOUR TO SIX BOMBS WOULD BE USED. THE RAID WOULD BE WITHIN TWO MILES. A TWIN ENGINE AIRPLANE WOULD BE USED. THE FLIGHT WOULD BE OUT OF OPA-LOCKA, FLA. AND THE PILOT WOULD RECEIVE BETWEEN FIFTEEN HUNDRED AND TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS.

A SECOND SOURCE, WHO HAS BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH BOSCH IN THE PAST AND WITH WHOM INSUFFICIENT CONTACT HAS BEEN HAD TO DETERMINE HIS RELIABILITY, ON MARCH TWENTYNINE, SIXTYSEVEN, FURNISHED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION.

ON FEBRUARY TWENTYTWO, SIXTYSEVEN AND MARCH TWELVE, SIXTY-SEVEN, BOSCH MET WITH AN AMERICAN PILOT CONCERNING A BOMBING MISSION OVER CUBA. BOSCH SAID THAT BETWEEN THIRTYFIVE HUNDRED AND FOUR THOUSAND DOLLARS WOULD BE USED TO FINANCE THE RAID, A RENTED AIRPLANE WOULD BE ACQUIRED FROM OUTSIDE FLORIDA, A PILOT AND TWO OTHERS WOULD CARRY OUT THE MISSION, AND THAT BETWEEN FOUR AND SIX ONE HUNDRED POUND BOMBS WOULD BE USED. THE TARGET WOULD BE A SUGAR MILL ON THE NORTH COAST OF CUBA.

THIS SOURCE REPORTED THAT BOSCH IS VERY SECURITY CONSCIOUS, WOULD NOT IDENTIFY THE CREW OF THE AIRPLANE, THE SOURCE OF THE

![image of the word secret]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

BOSES, DE FROM WERE IN THE UNITED STATES THE PLANE WOULD TAKE OFF.

BOSCH SAID HE WOULD CONTACT THE PILOT ON APRIL ONE, TWO OR THREE, SIXTYSEVEN, BRIEF HIM ON THE MISSION, FINALIZE ALL ARRANGEMENTS, AND THE PILOT WOULD BE READY TO LEAVE AFTER THE BRIEFING. BOSCH INDICATED THE PILOT AND CREW WOULD NOT KNOW EACH OTHER'S IDENTITIES OR THE DESCRIPTION OF THE AIRCRAFT UNTIL THE TIME OF THE MISSION.

U.S. CUSTOMS IN MIAMI, FLORIDA, ADVISED THAT IT IS CONDUCTING INVESTIGATION IN THIS MATTER. ACCORDINGLY NO INVESTIGATION IS BEING UNDERTAKEN BY FBI.

SP-1

END

SECRET

201-299292


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

BUSCH AVILA, ORLANDO
201-299292
SEA A DUB 9

CIT 9
OCC 9
RE FORMATION OF CUBAN-HAITIAN EMIGRE VALLIANCE
WITH GOAL OF INVADING HAITI.

036-009-006
WAVE-06130
18 MAR 67
UPG -06833
P2

HTPNHNHVCHGCHNHRS- R 6704130682

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-299 292

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# DISPATCH

Chief, EE

Chief of Station, IWE
TOPIC/AMOT/Operational
SI11-43/CIA Cuban rally held in New York on 19 February 1967

Action Required: None, FYI

1. Attached herewith is AMOT Report Number DL-2000,
   dated 20 February 1967, Subject: Rally Held in New York on
   19 February 1967 Under the Sponsorship of the Cuban
   Nationalist Association (ANC) and the MIRR-Comandos L
   Alliance.

2. As noted in the report, Felipe *RIVERO* Dias, ANC
   leader, and Orlando *ESCH* Avila, MIRR leader, violently
   attacked the United States and CIA during the rally.

Attachment - herewith
AMOT Report

Distribution
- WH/COG

Philip G. ELMARD

GB COPY FILED IN 19-300-20

![Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

ORGN REFERENCE TO

201-281688
201-299292

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

File in
201-299292

DATE TYPED
DATE DISPATCHED

24 Feb 67 MAR -1 1967

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-27081

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-5-3/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

PRE DOCUMENT

DATE: 24 FEBRUARY 1967

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: MIRR

FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

SECRET 1788492 CITE JMWAVE 4132

PRICITY DIRECT OR

NO NIACT

TYPIC

1. LOCAL OKMAGNET RECEIVED PHONE CALL 15 NOV 66 FROM PERSON IDENTIFYING SELF AS DR. ORLANDO BOSCH WHO REPORTED ONE OF HIS TWO ENGINE AIRCRAFT MISSING ON BOMBING RAID ON CUBA STAGED FROM CENTRAL AMERICA. HE REFUSED DETAILS ON ROUTES USED BUT IDENTIFIED CREW AS EVELIO GUTIERREZ AND RAUL FONTONY. JMWAVE TRACES NEGATIVE.

2. QKMAGNET TALKED WITH MRS. GUTIERREZ AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED MEMBERS MIRR EVENING 15 NOV. SHE DESCRIBED MISSING AIRCRAFT AS DARK IN COLOR, TWIN ENGINE, NO NUMBER. AIRCRAFT LAUNCHED FIRST ATTACK FROM BIMINI. SECOND ATTACK ALSO LAUNCHED FROM BIMINI WITH MATANZAS OR LOS VILLAS PROVINCES AS TARGETS BUT AIRCRAFT DID NOT RETURN.

SECRET

![ABSTRACT]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

PASE? JAVE 4132 SECRET SECRET

3. ΣΚΑΕSET ADVISED BY LACLLD OF SAN JUAN RUMOR THAT UNIDENTIFIED VESSEL PICKED UP TWO MEN NAMED (FHU) GUTIERREZ AND EVELIO AL PIZAR GRAFT. SAN JUAN QAMA SHET ATTEMPTING TO DETERMINE VALIDITY RUMOR.

STAT 10W TRACES SHOW AL PIZAR POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH EVELIO AL PIZAR PEREZ DO3 27 HOV 1931 HAVANA CUBAN AIK FORCE PILOT UNDER BATISTA, NOW RESIDING MIAMI.

SECRET

31

2

SECRET

NNNN

![photo of a stamp with handwritten date and initials]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

FILE OR CS/FE, DCI, D/OCL, OCI (GOODWIN), DOR ADOP, COL, CA/8808
Clayers εικE FI, SOD6, CCS3 EURY, GY0A 004 10/13

SECRET 700542 CITS JAVE 341

DIRECTOR

TYPIC

1.  EVENING 5 ОСТОЗER ORLANDO BOSCH GIVEN THREE YEAR SUSPENDED SENTENCE BY NAPLES COURT WHEN FOUND GUILTY OF TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES WITHOUT LICENSE IN APRIL 66. THO COMPANIONS TO BE TRIED SEPARATELY.

2.  EVENING 5 OCTOBER AMOT REPORTED THAT ANTAUP-2 HAD BEEN TELEPHONED BY JORGE GUITERREZ ULLA, CHIEF OF PROPAGANDA OF HIRR, TO ATTEND PRESS CONFERENCE 6 OCTOBER. AMTAUP 2 ALSO REPORTED THAT AT TRAEL JORGE VEGA, SOSCH DEFENSE ATTORNEY, HAD MADE STATEMENT TO COURT TO EFFECT THAT BOSCH SHOULD NOT BE CONVICTED BECAUSE HE WAS TRYING TO FREE HOMELAND FROM COMMUNIST DOMINATION AND IN DOING SO WAS NOT ACT ING ANY MORE ILLEGALLY THAN WAS WOFACT, WHICH WAS CONDUCTING "SAME TYPE OF ACTIVITY" FROM A BASE LOCATED AT THE "CAYO GORDO" SECTION OF NAPLES.

3.  "CAYO GORDO" UNDOUBTEDLY IS GARBLE FOR GORDON PASS AREA OF NAPLES AT WHICH BERTHING SITE FOR JMWAVE MARK I SWIFT

SECRET
201-299297
70866


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRAT

VITH CURRENT NAME RIGGER IS LOCATED. HOWEVER, RIGGER HAS
NCY ΑΙ 2mMBER WHEN REMOVED FOR OFS
USE AND REPAIRS. WAS SCCCS RETURN TO BERTH CIRCA I
OCTOBER BUT THIS POSTPONED BECAUSE OF HURRICANE INIZ.

RIGGER NOW AT TARPOM PORTIES BERTH, KI LARGO, WILL NOT
BE RETURNED TO NAPLES SIE. ASHES AVARE LATTER SITE

ALREADY SCHEDULED FOR TERMINATION OCTOBER-NOVEMBER 66.

4. UPON RECEIPT ANOT INFO JMWAVE CONTACTED AND BRIEFED
   AGENTS SERVING AS CUSTODIANS AT NAPLES SITE. TO DATE THEY
   HAVE NOT REPORTED ANY QUERIES. OFFICIALS OF COVER CORPORATION,
   GULFLANT, WHICH OWNS RIGGER AND RENTS BERTHING SITE WERE
   ALERTED AND BRIEFED 6 OCTOSER.

5. MORNING 6 OCTOBER ANTAUP-2 REPORTED PRESS CONFERENCE
   NOT HELD BY MIRR BUT THAT GUTIERREZ STATED HE HAD PHONED UPI,
   An
   ΑΡ, ΜΙΤΑΙ HERALD TO GIVE THE PRESS RELEASE INCLUDING VEGA
   CLAIM RE WOFACT ACTIVITIES NAPLES AREA.

6. AS OF 1728 HRS 6 OCTOSER STATION HAD NOT SEEN ANY
   MENTION IN PRESS OF ALLEGED VEGA STATEMENTS. MIAMI HERALD
   AND MIAMI NEWS COVERAGE OF SOSCH TRAIL DID NOT MENTION
   STATEMENTS. CHECKING NAPLES PRESS COVERAGE OF TRIAL.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

PAGE 3 JMKAVE 3413 SECRET

2

7. AT GUTIERREZ REQUEST AMTAUP-2 TAPED STATEMENT FOR RADIO PROGRAM. REVIEW OF STATEMENT BY AMOT SHOWS THAT VOFACT NOT MENTIONED.

8. ALTHO NO FIRM EVIDENCE TO DATE ANTICIPATE THAT MIRR MAY SEEX PUBLICIZE FURTHER "REVELATIOONS" RE JMKAVE ACTIVITY, NOTABLY RE COMBINED OPS FACILITIES, ACTIVITIES, PERSONNEL. INFO FROM AMOT AND OTHER CONTACTS IN EXILE COMMUNITY INDICATES FELIPE RIVERO AND HIS ANC GROUP ALSO

3

TALING OF "EXPOSING" WOFACT ACTIVITIES. STATED AIM OF BOTH GROUPS IS TO SHOW "THO-FACED" ATTITUDE OF U.S. GOVT WHICH STOPS ANTI-COMMUNIST EXILE FIGHTERS FROM USING U.S.

3

AS BASE FOR ACTION AGAINST CASTRO CUBA BUT ALLOWS WOFACT TO CARRY OUT SUCH ACTIVITY. FURTHER AIMS ARE TO SHOW EXILE COMMUNITY THAT MIRR AND ANC ARE "ACTIVIST" GROUPS AS COMPARED WITH OTHER EXILE ORGS AND TO RIDICULE AND TRY INTIMIDATE THOSE CUBANS WHO WORK FOR JMKAVE.

9. STATION EVALUATES INCIDENT AS HAVING NO SIGNIFICANT ADVERSE EFFECT ON OPS OR GENERAL STATION SECURITY. STATION MAS DIRECTED INCREASED STATE OF VIGILANCE AT ALL COMBINED OPS SITES BUT DOES NOT ENVISAGE ANY BASIC CHANGES IN COVER

SECRET

![illegible text]

201-299292


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

PAGE 4 JMWAVE 3413 SECRET
OR OPS SECURITY PROCEDURES WHICH HAVE PROVIDED `RID/MIS`
LEVEL OF PLAUSIBLE DENIAL PLUS EFFECTIVE MASKING OF
SENSITIVE DATA RE COMBINED OPS.
SECRET

NNSECRET

CERAPICO DA BOUGAR TEISITOR SEA SRA CHA RAIN такт убрики
CEREA PhD ENCRUCIAL VINEE 10 SHOW EXIRE

3

WIKO WO LIBA SATDENCE TO OVIE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 6 OCTOBER 1966
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SURJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 27 JULY 1966
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SURJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# DISPATCH

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, JHWAVE
Operational TYPIC/AMOT
Statements Made by Orlando BOSCH Avila at His Trial

Action Required: None, For Your Information

Reference: JHWAVE 1326, 6 June 1966

1.  Forwarded herewith is AMOT Report DD-1875, dated 9 June 1966, and its attachment which is a copy of a "Diario Las Americas" article dated 5 June 1966, concerning BOSCH's testimony that he was encouraged by the CIA to plan an attack against a refinery in Cuba in 1965.

2.  The reference in AMOT Report DD-1875, DD-1848, was disseminated in UFG-8249 on 5 May 1966.

PHILIP G. ELMARD

Attachment:
AMOT Report - M/W

Distribution:
-3- W/C, W/att

![Copy Annotation]

![group annotation]

![office reference annotation]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

TO:

AGENT:

VIA:

SUBJECT: Activities of the MIRR

SOURCE: Diario Las Americas

REF: DD-1848, para. 9

DD-1878
9 June 1966

1. With regard to the statement made by Orlando BOSCH Avila, director of the MIRR, on 4 June 1965 at the trial going on in Orlando, Florida to the effect that the CIA had encouraged him to set up an oil refinery in Cuba (see the attached copy of the item in Diario Las Americas on 5 June) we have the following to report.

2. On 30 April 1966 BOSCH told P-86 during a conversation (see W-10.8, para. 9) that he intended to involve the United States in his plans, using this form of blackmail against the authorities of the United States.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# DIARIO LAS AMERICAS

5 Junio 66

## Afirmó Orlando Bosch que la CIA lo Alentó a Volar una Refineria

ORLANDO, Florida, Junio 4: Bosch declaro que un tal Bill (UPI) - El lider cubano extrista Orlando Bosch testi mo agente de la CIA, le propu fico hoy en el juicio que se le so bombardear desde el aire la sigue bajo el cargo de exportar refineria, para lo cual le pro armamento belico, que la Dire metio un avion, un piloto y las ccion Central de Inteligencia bombas. Afirmó haber conveni "CIA" alentó una conjura do el traslado de los explosivos para volar una refineria de pet a la casa de Frank Swanner, el roleo en La Habana en 1936. piloto que atestiguo, per la fis calia, que los reos intentaron El proceso ante un tribunal contratarlo para la incursion a federal, que se sigue asimismo era. a otros tres exiliados cubanos (Marcos Rodriguez, José Diaz y El acusado dijo a los aboga Gerulio Gutierrez, deberá cul dos del gobierno que no inten minar mañana con la entrega taba infringir las leyes estado del caso a un tribunal de 12 unidenses de neutralidad y ex hombres. portación de municiones, pues el plan fue subsidado por la CIA.

Mientras los acusadores seña lan que Bosch fue advertido so bre las normas federales, sus defensores aducen que el Go bierno Federal proporcionó los materiales y habia mentido a Johnson.

El abogado defensor argu mentó que la incursión no iba a ser realizada desde territorio de Estados Unidos, y que las bombas que debian utilizarse no estaban clasificadas como ar mamentos belicos.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

BUSCH AVILA, ORLANDO
201-499292
SEX M DOB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
PUSSIBLE PICKETING IN MIAMI BY
THE MIRR UN BEHALF OF RAMON
DONESTEVEZ DOMINGUEZ.

819-300-020
UPG -08230
03 MAY 66
P2

R 6005100753

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.  FILE IN 201-299292

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

1/21/66 CIS 2/5

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FROM: JAMAVE

ACTION: IW RID COPY (ADVANCE COPY TUBED TO CSDO AT 2815 0)

INFO: DFT D/DIR, EX/DIR, DOP, CS/RF, CA/PROP, CL/OPR, CL/C2, R, R/D, R/OUT 6, CS/00, S00 4, RI/AM, DO/M 4, WH 8.

ALIDES1 WH/C 12, VR

SECRET 2823:82 21 JAN 0546Z 66 IN 38481

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR CITE WAVE 8598

INTEL TYPIC 1

* SUPDATA: AMTAUP-2 IN AMOT DO-1748 OF 19 JAN 65 FROM SERGIO SANCHEZ
* SUAREZ. RID: INDEX SUAREZ, BOSCH. FILED 282318Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEN

CUBA

SUBJ: REPAIR OF TWIN ENGINE VESSEL TO BE USED BY THE MIRR TO

INFILTRATE PERSONNEL INTO LAV VILTAS PROVINCE

DOI: 19 JANUARY 1966

PADS: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (28 JANUARY 1966).

UFG-7902

SOURCE: A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED. IN THE

201-299292

WH/C 12

WH/REG 8

TOCSD8-315/00235-66

ROUTINE PRIORITY

BASED ON: UFG-7902

TP (AMTAUP-2)

RELEASING I W:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

21 JANUARY 1966

0316 Z

LAUNIE M. ZIEBELL

LIAISON: H

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ACTION: [X] RID COPY

INFO: VR, FILE, ADOP, CA 2, CA/NG, CA/MOR, CI/OPL, CI/IC 2, R, R/D, R/INT

PAGE 2 II: 38481

*   TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED
    USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.

IW COMMENT:

TDCS

ROUTINE
BASED ON:

PRIORITY

RELEASING I WO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

LIAISON:

SECRET

GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFF. IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

TDCS DB-315/00235-66

DATE OF INFO 19 JANUARY 1966

DATE 21 JANUARY 1966

SUBJECT

REPAIR OF TWIN ENGINE VESSEL TO BE USED BY THE MIRR TO INFILTRATE PERSONNEL INTO LAV VILTAS PROVINCE

PLACE & DATE ACQ UNITED STATES, MIAMI (20 JANUARY 1966)

REF IN 3848

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL A MEMBER OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES TRAINED IN THE TECHNIQUES OF INFORMATION COLLECTION. THE GROUP HAS PROVIDED USEFUL REPORTS SINCE 1961.
FIELD REPORT NO. UPG-7903

1. ON THE MORNING OF 19 JANUARY 1966 SERGIO SANCHEZ SUAREZ, 3635 NW 23RD COURT, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WAS REPAIRING A TWIN-ENGINE VESSEL OWNED BY THE MOVIMIENTO INSURRECCIONAL DE RECSPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY). SUAREZ HAD ALREADY COMPLETED WORK ON ONE ENGINE AND WAS EXPECTED TO FINISH WORK ON THE OTHER BY THE AFTERNOON OF 19 JANUARY,

2. THE MIRR PLANS TO USE THE VESSEL TO INFILTRATE TEN MEN INTO THE NORTH COAST OF LAS VILLAS PROVINCE. THE GROUP IS ONLY WAITING FOR THE WEATHER TO IMPROVE BEFORE MAKING THE TRIP. THE

> This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONFIDENTIAL

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEP NSA NIC OCI ONE OCR EXO CIA/NMCC. FBI. TREASURY, COAST GUARD, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL

201-279242


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

PLACE CONTROLS ABOVE TOP BLACK LINE AND BELOW BOTTOM BLACK LINE

CONFIDENTIAL
IN 30481
FRCS CB-315/00235/PAGE

VESSEL WILL TAKE THE MEN TO WITHIN EIGHT MILES OF THE COAST WHERE
THEY WILL THEN BOARD A SMALLER BOAT AND PROCEED TO LAND.

3. ACCORDING TO SUAREZ, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, LEADER OF THE
   MIRR, HAD SAID THAT THE INFILTRATION TEAM WOULD BE CARRYING OUT
   "A VERY IMPORTANT ACTION" IN CUBA.

4. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS
   OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, IANS, BORDER PATROL, AND USCG.

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

VSI LOCUSGANTS

DATE: 17 DECENCER 195

CLASSIFICATION: BECKET

BURJECT MIRR

FRI FILE NOI 105-5855 (MIΑΜΣ)

DATE: 13 DECEMBER 199

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

BURJECT CURAN PEPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE)

THE FILE NO: 100-1280 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

FILE

EC R-ET

DIR CITE WAVE 7553

TYPIC AMOT

1.  FYI ANCT REPORT DD-1698 DTD 30 NOV REPORTS GIST OF 27 NOV
    TELEPHONE CONVERSATION BETWEEN AMTAUP-2 AND MARCELING GARCIA
    JIMENEZ OF MIRR. GAPCIA STATED HAD TALKED ON TELEPHONE ON 27
    NOV TO ORLANDO BOSCH WHO IN HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT. BOSCH INDI-
    CATED STUDENTS AT HARTFORD UNIVERSITY HAD MADE $5000 BOND FOR BOSCH
    PERMITTING HIS RELEASE: BOND ORIGINALLY SET AT $15,000 SUBSEQUENTLY
    REDUCED TO $5,680. ACCORDING BOSCH UNIVERSITY STUDENTS HAVE
    ASKED THAT BOSCH BE TRIED IN "PUBLIC TRIAL" BUT ACCORDING BOSCH
    THIS INFO CONFIDENTIAL AND NOT FOR PUBLIC CONSUMPTION. SAME
    CAVEAT PASSED TO A-2 BY GARCIA. BOSCH ALSO INDICATED WOULD SPEND
    THREE OR FOUR DAYS AT HARTFORD, HAVE MEETING AT THE UNIVERSITY
    AND ATTEMPT COLLECT FUNDS "FOR AN OPERATION HE (BOSCH) HAD
    PLANNED".

2. GARCIA INDICATED TO A-2 THAT PREVIOUSLY PLANNED PROTEST
   DEMONSTRATION CANCELLED WHEN BOSCH RELEASED, AND ADDED THAT
   HENCEFORTH ALL EFFORTS OF MIRR WOULD BE DIRECTED TOWARDS
   EFFECTING PLANNED AIR RAID OVER PINAR DEL RIO PROVINCE. (WAVE

# SECRET

201-299292

2 Dec 65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

COMMENT: SEE UFO 7754 FOR INFORMATION ON PLANNED DEMONSTRATION AND
UFG 7739 FOR INFORMATION PRO-SED STRIKE).

3. VAVE DOES NOT INTEND DISSEMINATE INFOPPATION LOCALLY SINCE
   ASSUME SUBSTANCE ABOVE INFO KNOWN TO ODENVY WILL CONTINUE MONITOPING
   MIRR PLANS. VOULD APPRECIATE DIR DETERMINE WHETHER HARTFORD UNI:
   VERSITY STUDENTS DID IN FACT MAKE BOND, WHETHER PLANNED
   MEETING HELD, AND ESTIMATE AMOUNT COLLECTED IF ANY. VILI, USE
   REPLIES IN SUBSEQUENT DISSEMINATIONS IF APPROPRIATE.

SECRET

CFN 7653 FYI DD 1698 DTD 3P NOV 27 NOV AMTAUP-2 MARCELINO GARCIA
JIMENEZ MIRR 27 NOV ORLANDO BOSCH HARTFORD CONNECTICUT HARTFORD
UNIVERSITY $5000 $15,000 $5,900 NOT FOR A-1 GARCIA A-2 PINAR DEL
RIO UFG 7754 UFG 7739 NOT INTEND

BT

NNNN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 43

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

RID COPY

FILE US, WH 8, SONG, CAZ, CA/PEG, PPB, OGCZ, FI, FILINT, CA/PROP, DoY, DON 3, DOP, ADDP

SECRET B122092

DIR CITE WAVE 7629

TYPIC AMOT

1 DEC 65 11. 05856,

FOR YOUR INFORMATION ON BASIS AMOT REPORT DD 1699 OF 30 NOV 65.
AMOT-2 OBTAINED FOLLOWING FROM MARIO BARRERA DIAZ, WHO IN NEW YORK
AND REGULAR AMOT SUB-SOURCE. WHILE VISITING NEW YORK OFFICES
"EL TIEMPO" 30 NOV DIAZ WAS INFORMED BY PEDRO YANES OF MIRR ORGANIZATION
THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA WOULD MEET SENATOR DODD ON 3 DEC AT WHICH
TIME BOSCH TO COMPLAIN ABOUT "PERSECUTION, INSULTS AND OTHER ATROCITIES"
COMMITTED AGAINST HIS PERSON BY OBYOKE OFFICIALS.

SECRET

CFN 7629 AHOT DD 1699 30 NOV. 65 AMOT-2 MARIO BARRERA DIAZ NEW YORK
EL TIMEPO 30 NOV PEDRO YANES MIRR ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA SENATOR DODD
3 DEC

BT

SECRET

201-299292

1 Dec 65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| T JECT OF DOCUMENT                    | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                                |          |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- |
| 01 FILE NO.                           |                         |                                |          |
| 04 DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. ORIGN. NO. | 05. DATE                |                                |          |
| 7. SOURCE CONTROLS: DATE OF INFO.     | 8. EVALUATION           |                                |          |
| 6. ANALYST                            | 9. DATE PROCESSED       | 10. DISSEMINATED TO            | 11. DATE |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION    | 13. TRANSFERRED TO OT FILE NO. |          |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

BOSCH AVILA, CRLANDO 019-002-004
201-299292 UFGA-23848
SEX M CUB ? 22 NOV 65
+19-2-4-2
CAT CUBA A02
CCC ?
POSSIBLE RAID PLANS BY CRLANDO BOSCH
AVILA, LEADER OF MOIMIENTO INSUR-
RECCIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLU-
CIOPARIA/MINR, INSURRECTIONAL MUVE-
MENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY/

R 6512031956

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-299292


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER and CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

PERTINENT INFORMATION

BUSCH AVILA, ORLANDO 019-006-095/04
201-299292 WAVE-07391
SEX M DUB 2 20 NOV 65
UFG-07739
CIT CUBA P3
OCC ?
POSSIBILITY THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
MAY BE PLANNING AN AERIAL RAID OVER
CUBA.

NZP R 6511301958

FILE IN 201-

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 29 92 92

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

## SECREt

## DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

BOSCH AVILA, ORLANDO
201-299292
SEX M 008 1

019-300-020
NAVE-07369
19 NOV 65
UFG-07738

CIT CUBA
CCC 7
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA 201-299292. LEADER
OF THE MIRR, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT OFR
REVCLUTIONARY RECOVERY, IS PLANNING AN
ATTACK ON CUBA WHICH WILL TAKE PLACE IN
THE NEAR FUTURE. ADOLFO JIMENEZ AGUILERA
201-32770L, HAS BEEN ASKED TO PARTICIPATE
IN THE OPERATION, DOI 18 NOV 65.

HZP
R 6511301959

FILE IN 201-

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
SECRET
29 92 92


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

BUSCH AVILA, URLANDU
201-299292
SEX M DUB 7
019-006-095/04
WAVE-07202
17 NOV 65
UTG-07719
P3
CIT CUBA
OCL 7
LUK OF THE MINK, INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT
FUR REVOLUTIONARY RECUPERATION
PLANS OF CUBAN EMIGRES TO ATTEND CONFERENCE
OF FOREIGN MINISTERS IN RIO DE JANEIRO

R 6512060194

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FILE IN 201-299292

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

JMWAVE

WHIC8 (KID COPY)

FILE UR, WH8, CI/LPS, FI, CI

SECRET 1722262

DIR INFO IOD CITE PAVE 7315 (IMCHURST ACTING)

MHMOOSE PERUMEN 17 Nov 65 ltr. 96796

REFS A. DIR 47968

B. WAVE 7282(IN95999)*

ODFOAM REPORTS: JUAN JOSE CERILO (MORENZA) ABREU AND HIS
CLOSE FRIEND MARIO (BARRERA) DIAZ (201-281387) PREPARING TRAVEL
RIO OAS MEETING. BOTH ASSOCIATED COLLEGE OF NEWSPAPERMEN IN EXILE
AND FRIENDS ORLANDO (BOSCH) AVILA, HEAD INSURRECTIONAL MOVEMENT
FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECUPERATION (MIRR), MILITANT ACTIVIST ORGANIZATION.

2. ODFOAM IN JULY 1965 INVESTIGATED AND CLEARED MORENZA FOR
   ALLEGED THREAT GPLOGIC. ODFOAM OPINION THERE NO INDICATION SUBJECTS
   PLAN HOSTILE ACTION OAS MEETING DESPITE BOSCH ASSOCIATION.

3. AMOTS REPORT MORENZA BORN 1904, NEGRO, ALLEGEDLY NOT ALLOWED
   MEXICO BECAUSE INVOLVED ROLLASON VISA SALES. IN PAST WAS DELEGATE
   TO MEXICO FOR AGENCIA DE INFORMACIONES PERIODISTICAS (AIP) AND
   ASSOCIATED PRIO ELEMENT PRO-OBIERNO CONSTITUCIONAL DE CUBA (PGCC).

4. MORENZA ON FINANCE DEPT DELEGATION CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY
   COUNCIL (CRC) IN MEXICO, 1962.

201-299292

17 Nov 65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

IN 96796 PAGE 2

CFN 7515 47968 7282 JUAN JOSE CERILO NORENZA ASPEIU MARIO GARDERA

DIAZ 201-281387 RIO OAS ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA WIRR 1965 MORENZA

NO INDICATION OAS BOSCH 1964 NEGRO NOT ALLOWED MEXICO AIP PRO-GIBIERDO

PGCC CRC 1968

BT

* CUBANS PLANS TO ATTEND RIO CONFI

![photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

## 4-1 CONTACTS

DATE: 12 NOVEMBER 1965
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: MIRA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 4 NOVEMBER 1965
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; MINING OF SPANISH VESSEL "SATRUSTEGUI" AT SAN JUAN...
FBI FILE NO: 105-106-02 (MIAMI)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)