# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 94-5394206 SENSIND: PL PAGE: 1

/ / ** PL ** LA 26. SECRET FRP: 2, , , , ,

ADV: LA/CCG (2008Z) STAFF

ACTION: LA/CCG (287) INFO: CIC/LA, DDOPLS, LA/CCGEO, LA/CCGPL, LA/SCGAPUC,
LADORECORD, MDSX, ODPD, PLDO, FILE, C/CIC, C/LA/RB1, DC/LA/RB1, DDO (5/W)

94 5394206 ASO PAGE 001 IN 5394206
TOR: 042008Z FEB 94 MONT 66786

SECRET 042002Z FEB 94 STAFF

CITE MONTEVIDEO 66786

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/CCGEO INFO LA/SCGAPUC, CIC/LA

SLUGS: WNINTEL PLSLINGSHOT SLLARCENY

SUBJECT: ASSESSMENT OF SLLARCENY/1 BY FGFORK/86

REF: MONTEVIDEO 66777 94 5389683

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: PLEASE PASS TO NOC SIDNEY B. CALLICRATE PRIOR TO HIS TDY DEPARTURE TO MONTEVIDEO.

2. SUMMARY: THIS CABLE CONTAINS ASSESSMENT DATA FROM FGFORK/86 (F/86) ON SLLARCENY/1 (L/1), BASED ON F/86'S OBSERVATIONS OF, AND DISCUSSIONS WITH, L/1 AND FAMILY DURING THEIR REF OUTING TO CHUY IN EARLY JAN 94.

3. L/1 DID THE DRIVING FROM MONTEVIDEO TO CHUY. HE DOES NOT LIKE DRIVING AT NIGHT OR IN THE RAIN. IN CONTRAST WITH HIS NORMALLY PLEASANT PERSONALITY, L/1 BECOMES AGGRESSIVE AND NERVOUS BEHIND THE WHEEL.

4. WHILE FAMILIES WERE STAYING TOGETHER IN RATHER SMALL BEACH HOUSE, L/1 AND HIS WIFE GOT INTO A FIGHT. SHE APPEARED TO BE THE INSTIGATOR. F/86'S WIFE LATER TALKED TO L/1'S WIFE IN PRIVATE. L/1'S WIFE SAID SHE BLAMES L/1 BECAUSE WHEN L/1 DIVORCED HIS PREVIOUS WIFE, HE GAVE HER HIS APARTMENT. THUS L/1 AND HIS CURRENT WIFE WILL NOT HAVE THEIR OWN PLACE TO LIVE WHEN THEY EVENTUALLY RETURN TO CUBA. THAT IS WHY, DURING THEIR PREVIOUS TRIP TO CUBA FROM URUGUAY, L/1 AND WIFE BUILT AN EXTRA ROOM ONTO HOUSE OF MRS. L/1'S PARENTS IN GUANABO.

5. MRS. L/1 ALSO SAID THAT L/1 IS "MUY CONSUMISTA" (I.E., A COMPULSIVE SHOPPER), AND THAT SHE HAS TO CONTROL HIM WHEN THEY GO TO THE SUPERMARKET BECAUSE L/1 ALWAYS BUYS TOO MUCH. MRS. L/1 EXPLAINED THAT L/1 GREW UP IN A VERY POOR FAMILY. THAT IS WHY HE NOW BUYS TOO MUCH OF EVERYTHING. SHE ALSO SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 94-5394206

SECRET
SENSIND: PL PAGE: 2

CRITICIZED L/1 FOR SPOILING THEIR CHILDREN (HIS OLDER DAUGHTER
BY PREVIOUS MARRIAGE AND THEIR YOUNGER DAUGHTER), BY GIVING
THEM WHATEVER THEY ASK FOR. MRS. L/1 HAS A POOR RELATIONSHIP
WITH THE OLDER DAUGHTER. SHE ADDED THAT L/1'S RELATIONSHIP
WITH HIS TWO GROWN SONS IS GOOD BUT SOMEWHAT DISTANT.

6. F/86 PERSONALLY OBSERVED L/1'S COMPULSIVE SHOPPING WHEN
   THEY ALL WENT TO CHUY ON 8 JAN. BOTH L/1 AND HIS WIFE BOUGHT
   LARGE NUMBER OF ITEMS TO SEND TO THEIR FAMILY IN CUBA. AT ONE
   POINT, L/1 TOLD HIS WIFE THAT HE WOULD DO THE BUYING AND SHE
   SHOULD BE THE HOUSEWIFE. MRS. L/1 CALLED HIM A "DUMB SPANIARD"
   ("GALLEGO BRUTO"). F/86 SUSPECTS THAT L/1 AND WIFE HAVE OTHER
   PROBLEMS, POSSIBLY DUE TO L/1'S INFIDELITY. DURING THEIR
   SPATS, MRS. L/1 WAS USUALLY THE AGGRESSOR, WITH L/1 TRYING TO
   KEEP PEACE OR SIMPLY REMAINING QUIET. MRS.. L/1 ALSO GOT INTO
   ARGUMENTS WITH SOME OF THE PALESTINIAN MERCHANTS IN CHUY.

7. ONE OTHER ASPECT OF L/1'S FAMILY WHICH F/86 FOUND
   DISAGREEABLE WAS BEHAVIOR OF L/1'S OLDER DAUGHTER. F/86 AND
   HIS WIFE WERE BOTH OFFENDED BY DAUGHTER'S FREQUENT SEXUAL
   REFERENCES IN FRONT OF F/86'S YOUNGER CHILDREN. F/86 SAID THAT
   L/1'S DAUGHTER ACTED JUST LIKE A CUBAN HOOKER.

8. ON A MORE ELEVATED PLANE, F/86 ALSO HAD SOME PRIVATE
   PHILOSOPHICAL AND POLITICAL DISCUSSIONS WITH L/1. IN RESPONSE
   TO F/86'S DIRECT QUESTION, L/1 SAID THAT THE WRITERS WHO HAVE
   INFLUENCED HIM THE MOST ARE MARX, HEGEL AND KANT. L/1 SAID
   THAT LENIN'S MAIN ACHIEVEMENT WAS TO RECOGNIZE NEED FOR ONLY
   ONE PARTY. L/1 CONSIDERS LENIN TO HAVE BEEN AN INTEPRETER OF
   MARX BUT NOT A GREAT THEORETICIAN. TO SOME EXTENT, L/1
   DEFENDED LENIN'S SO-CALLED "LAW OF ECONOMIC PRUDENCE", A MEANS
   OF ECONOMIC PLANNING WHICH LENIN UNSUCCESSFULLY ATTEMPTED TO
   IMPLEMENT IN USSR. AFTER LENIN'S DEATH, IT BECAME EXCESSIVELY
   BUREAUCRATIZED AND ATROPHIED, ALTHOUGH THIS SYSTEM DID WORK
   WITH SOME SUCCESS IN BULGARIA.

9. L/1 ALSO ACKNOWLEDGED NEED FOR "NEOLIBERAL MEDICINE" TO
   REFORM CUBAN ECONOMY, BECAUSE THERE IS NO OTHER SOLUTION. L/1
   ADDED, HOWEVER, THAT REFORMS SHOULD BE INSTITUTED WITH MINIMUM
   SOCIAL AND POLITICAL COSTS. WHILE STATE SHOULD NOT BE
   EXCESSIVELY INTERVENTIONIST IN ECONOMY, L/1 WANTS STATE TO
   RETAIN ITS PROTECTIVE SOCIAL ROLE, BECAUSE MARKET ECONOMY ALSO
   HAS ITS FAULTS.

10. L/1 TALKED ABOUT ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F.
    KENNEDY. ACCORDING TO L/1, IN 1969, L/1 PERSONALLY SAW FIDEL
    CASTRO RECEIVE A GROUP OF U.S. RADICALS. CASTRO TALKED TO THEM
    FOR TWO HOURS ABOUT WHY JUST ONE ASSASSIN COULD NOT POSSIBLY
    HAVE KILLED KENNEDY. CASTRO ORDERED A REENACTMENT OF THE
    CRIME, USING HIS BEST MARKSMEN, AND THEY COULD NOT DUPLICATE
    *WHAT<LEE HARVEY OSWALD>SUPPOSEDLY DID BY HIMSELF. L/1 SAID
    THAT THREE GROUPS WERE INVOLVED IN KILLING THE PRESIDENT: ONE
    GROUP OF CUBANS, ONE GROUP O "MAFIOSOS" AND A THIRD GROUP OF
    MERCENARIES. THE THIRD GROUP INCLUDED A MAN WITH A GREEK
    NAME. L/1 TOLD F/86 THAT IT IS NOT KNOWN WHETHER ANY OF THESE
    SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

MHFNO: 94-5394206                                          PAGE: 3

SECRET
SENSIND: PL

GROUPS EVER HAD ANY CONNECTION WITH PNINFINITE. IN THIS REGARD, F/86 REPORTED TO STATION THAT L/1 IS ALWAYS CAREFUL NOT TO ATTACK PNINFINITE WHEN F/86 IS PRESENT.

11. STATION REPORTING ADDITIONAL INFO FROM F/86 SEPARATELY.

12. FILE: 201-1454795. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.
    END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)