# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

FROM
SAN SALVATES

ACTION
WH8

INFO
DDP WH/SAS CI CH/NES CI/OA TI/CAR/CPP/R.5006
VR. FILE

SECRET 38221NZ

DIR CITE SALV 5312
WH DIV CUBA CUBAN DEFECTOR
30 SEP 64 IN 84511

REFS A. SALV 5333 (IN83009)*

B. DIR 53380

1. CIA OFFICER
   CUBAN DEFECTOR
   DALTON
   AND ONCE EACH ALONE AND ONCE TOGETHER SAW

MORNING 30 SEPTEMBER. DALTON TOOK SAME POSITION AS PARA 2 REF A.
DENIED KNOWING DESPITE CASE OFFICER RELATIONSHIP, REFUSED DISCUSS
CUBAN DEFECTOR
ANYTHING ABOUT CUSAN INTEL, AND BEGGED FOR RELEASE AND EXILE TO START
LIFE ANEW.

2. OBTAINING TRUTH FROM DALTON WILL BE TIME CONSUMING. HE FULLY
   AWARE PROOFS AGAINST HIM BUT PROBABLY HOPES POLITICAL PRESSURE WILL FORCE
   RELEASE AND PROBABLY FEARS ADMISSION OF HIS COMPLICITY WILL NOT HELP
   HIM. SALV GOVT MUST CONVINCE HIM HE WRONG ON BOTH COUNTS. HE OF
   DUBIOUS VALUE INSOFAR AS CONTRIBUTING NEW INFO ABOUT PAST ACTIVITIES
   OF CUBAN INTEL OR PCES BUT OF CONSIDERABLE INTEREST AS AGENT IF HE
   CAN BE TARGETTED AGAINST CUBAN INTEL OR PCES. IF RELEASED WOULD BE
   DEFINITE OBSTACLE TO FURTHER OPS AGAINST CUBAN DEFECTOR TARGETS. IF HE SHOULD
   BE DOUBLED, HIS IMPRISONMENT WOULD COVER RECRUITMENT AND WOULD TEND TO
   ENHANCE HIS VALUE. PROBABLY WOULD BE MOST USEFUL OUTSIDE SALV
   INCLUDING MEXI AND CUBA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN PAGE 2

3. AS MATTERS STAND MOST IMPORTANT TO PROTECT CIA EQUITY IN CUBAN Target OF GREAT PROMISE. THIS OP COULD BE AFFECTED ADVERSELY BY SPREAD OF NELS ABOUT CUBAN DEFECTOR EFFORTS ON BEHALF OF CIA TO EFFECT RECRUITMENTS. BECAUSE OF VALUE OF CUBAN Target PREFER FOR PRESENT NOT TO PROCEED AGAINST OTHERS WHO RECEIVED INTEL TRAINING. AFTER CUBAN Target CIA IS PRODUCING AND AFTER PRUDENT INTERVAL CAN PROCEED WITH RECRUITMENT EFFORT AGAINST OTHERS EITHER UNILATERALLY OR WITH LIAISON 24 DEPENDING ON DEVELOPMENTS.

4. PROCEEDING WITH ARREST OF GUERRILLEROS TRAINED IN CUBA PROBABLY WOULD BE BENEFICIAL AS LONG AS NOT ATTRIBUTED TO CUBAN DEFECTOR. SOME OF THOSE DETAINED MIGHT BE DOUBLED AND TARGETTED AGAINST GUERRILLA GROUPS OR PCES.

5. APPRECIATE REF B TO WHICH WILL REPLY AFTER DISCUSSING FURTHER PROSPECTS AND GOVT INTENTIONS WITH LIAISON AND POSSIBLY PRESIDENT. 24

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)