1104-10331-10194

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CL BY: 2085904
CL REASON: Section 1.5 C
DECL ON: X1
DRV FRM: COV 2-87

TO: J. Barry Harrelson
FROM: Teresa Wilcox@ DST
OFFICE: ODDS&T/IRO
DATE: 10/23/97 04:33:33 PM
SUBJECT: Re: JFK Board 14 October Meeting -- Results

Original Text of J. Barry Harrelson
Barry:

(S) This follows our telephone conversation of 22 October 1997. I have discussed the decision of the JFK Board to release the true name of Jose Marie Mankel with Linda Cipriani of OGC/Litigation Division. Linda is of the opinion that we have a very weak case were we to pursue an appeal to the President, because we are unable to articulate specific current harm that would ensue when the Board releases Mankel's name. This is because the program with which he was linked, as well as the crypt, already have been officially released to the public via the SSCI hearings in 1975. In addition, I have been advised that the activity with which Mr. Mankel was associated has no link with any current DS&T program. Moreover, Mr. Mankel's name is in the public domain (in Oliver Stone's manuscript for the film "Nixon"), although it has not--up to now--been officially acknowledged. We do not know Mr. Mankel's whereabouts, or even if he is still alive; the last contact the CIA had with him was in 1964, when he was living in Luxembourg.

(S) The chilling effect of publicly releasing the names of persons to whom we have promised confidentiality, thereby harming our ability to recruit in the future, was unsuccessfully argued to the Board at its 14 October meeting. Because we are unable to articulate specific current harm, beyond the general chilling effect, I believe an appeal would be unsuccessful. Therefore, unless we are able to unearth additional information in the seven days allotted to us following formal notification of the Board's decision--which is unlikely--the DS&T will not appeal the release of this name.

CC: Thomas J. Benjamin @ DST, (Patricia B. Cameresi @ DST, Joseph P. Hayes C- @ DST
Sent on 23 October 1997 at 04:33:33 PM

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET
(When filled in)

1

NAME INFORMATION SHEET 8 October 1997

NAME: Mankel, Jose Marie Andre aka Mankel, Andre

DOB: 1 Oct 1917

EOD: Contract agent at least by March 1961

PRESENT RESIDENCE:

Unknown

WISHES RE COVER/NO COVER:

Unknown

SENSITIVE ASSIGNMENTS/ACTIVITIES:

Mankel was recruited as a ZRRIFLE agent in late 1960. The objective of the ZRRIFLE project was to procure foreign code and cypher materials and information concerning such matters. Except for a two-month (Nov-Dec 1960) TDY to Africa, Mankel apparently operated in Europe establishing his cover while trying to spot and assess individuals that the CIA could use in safe cracking operations, in line with one of the principal missions of FI/D. Agency contract terminated in Feb 1964.

CURRENT ACTIVITIES:

Unknown

OTHER NOTES:

First Agency contact with Mankel in 1958 (COS through Chief of Luxembourg Intelligence Service) in connection with illegal narcotics operation into the US. For 18 months, he was contacted sporadically on behalf of the Bureau of Narcotics. (The Bureau's files reflect an excellent performance by contact.)

Virtually all data on Mankel -- except his true name -- have been released.

BACKGROUND USE ONLY
DO NOT REPRODUCE
RETURN TO CIA

SECRET
(When filled in)

CL BY: 0563956
CL REASON: 1.5 (c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FROM: HUM 2-82


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)