# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

10 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: Requirements Briefing to FBI Informant Going to Cuba

1.  In accordance with arrangements previously made with the FBI by SAS/CI/Liaison, the undersigned went to New York on 8 July to brief an FBI informant who is going to Cuba for two weeks. I had a short session at the FBI office in NYC with Dale Schwant, the case officer, and we then met with the informant for about two hours in a room at the Prince George Hotel. The informant had been told that I would be at the meeting and that I represented the Agency, but I was not introduced to him by name.

2.  The FBI informant - Victor Thomas * Vicente - is an American-born/Puerto Rican born in NYC in 1930. He has been under FBI control for nearly 3 years penetrating the three pro-Castro organizations in NYC: the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC); the Casa Cuba, and the Jose Marti Club. Through the first two years Subject was only a marginal asset, in the last six months he has become a valuable penetration for the FBI into the above 3 organizations as well as the Cuban UN delegation, having apparently won the complete confidence of the pro-Castro leaders and Cuban officials in NYC. Recently he was asked to join the CPUSA. Subject works as a shipping clerk in a coffee plant in Brooklyn. He has the appearance and other attributes, according to Dale Schwant, for the role of pro-Castro revolutionary. The Cubans have expressed an interest in his moving to Cuba to work. He is willing to go but his wife is against it, but idea is still alive.

Cuban Sponsorship

3.  Subject is leaving NYC for Mexico City on 13 July and he expects to go on to Cuba illegally on 15 July. The Cuban Ambassador to the UN, Raul Primellas, has arranged for a Cuban visa to be ready at the embassy in Mexico City, and also passage to Habana on a Cubana flight. Subject is also


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

- 2 -

armed with a letter of introduction from the National Director of the FPCC,
Vicent Theodore Lee On 6 July the 3 pro-Castro organizations named
above held a party for Subject and raised $100.00 for his trip.

Informant's Contacts in Cuba

4. Subject will contact several friends in Cuba who are milicianos, one
   of them in Santiago, Oriente Province. They were fellow activists in pro-
   Castro organizations in NYC who have returned to Cuba. He also has been
   given (by his Cuban friends) the address of a family whose son is the chauf-
   feur of Carlos Rafael Rodriguez. Arrangements have also been made for
   Subject to talk to the American Communist in Habana, Robert Williams.
   Subject, who will be accompanied by his wife on this trip, has been instructed
   by his Cuban superiors to take a camera with him to take pictures of Cuba for
   showing at organizational meetings in NYC. Something similar had been done
   previously by the head of the FPCC on his trip to Cuba in December 1962. The
   note-taking in connection with the photos will be a device enabling Subject to
   record intel information difficult to remember.

5. I briefed Subject during a two hour period using as a guide the attached
   requirements outline, prepared with Henry Kitchens SAS/Intel/Requirements,
   and Antia Potocki, SAS/CI/Sov-Sat. I had also discussed Subject's mission to
   Cuba with SAS/SO/Rodriguez and DC/SAS/EOB. I stressed, as did the FBI
   case officer, that while fully exploiting his militia and other contacts for the
   desired information, he must always be guided by security considerations.
   After an agent role for three years, Subject expressed confidence in his ability
   in carrying out his mission successfully.

6. I should add that I was very cordially received at the NYC FBI office
   and that Mr. Schwant was most cooperative. I referred to our memorandum
   to his headquarters indicating that the Agency had a world-wide program to 24
   send controlled CP and front penetrations on missions to Cuba, and I expressed
   the hope that this might be only our first joint effort. He agreed wholeheartedly,
   adding that he personally would be particularly happy to cooperate if Subject
   informant should move permanently to Cuba and play the role of resident agent.
   As soon as Subject returns from Cuba Mr. Schwant will let us know and arrange
   for the debriefing.

Louis De Santi
SAS/CI/CP

Attachment: Herewith


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RE CORD
RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUBJECT: AMSANTA Project
Job # 65-427/38 Box 7
File # 19-6-73/3
Volumes: 5

1. Description:

Coverage of Castro Communist regime through use of existing Communist Party and front penetration assets. File was opened in December 1962.

2. Findings:

Memo for the Record dated 10 July 1963 by Louis De Santi SAS/CI/CP

FBI informant Victor Thomas VICENTE, Puerto Rican citizen, who penetrated CP's in NY City left NY for Cuba via Mexico as guest of ICAP. Was debriefed by CIA staffer Lou DeSanti upon return to U.S. in July-Aug 63. VICENTE stated he had interviews with CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. VICENTE penetrated the FPCC, the Casa Cuba, and Jose Marti Club in New York City. Page 127 of IG 1967 report mentions unnamed Puerto Rican who claims he participated in Castro inspired assassination plot in Dallas. Don't know if VICENTE could be that individual.

Attachment: LAD/JFK Task Force
Researcher: KGB

3. Checked VICENTE 201-731222.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Requirements Outline

1. Details of Cuban-Soviet agreements and Castro-Khrushchev understandings re:

a. Soviet economic aid

b. Soviet military presence

c. Cuban rapprochement and posture vis-a-vis U. S.

d. Training of Cubans in Soviet bloc to man weapon systems under Soviet command; question of whether Cubans to acquire command control over these weapons systems.

e. How far and how fast is Castro to go in exporting violent revolution in Latin America.

2. Demobilization of regular militia and what relation it has (if any) to the take-over by Soviets of some internal security functions.

a. What part or percent of militia has been demobilized.

b. To what extent has civilian militia been disarmed of automatic weapons.

c. Have Soviets actually taken over control of police stations in certain cities or towns. Which cities.

d. Purposes behind demobilization and disarming of militia.

(1) To minimize resistance potential?

(2) Are Soviets telling Castro to put more people to work on the farms and they will take care of internal security?

e. Reaction of milicianos to demobilization and disarming.

3. Hard information on missiles (all types) and Soviet troops. (Differentiate between facts and propaganda for foreign and/or domestic consumption.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

4. Communism:

a. Secret existence of PSP

b. PURS - when First Congress to be held

c. Reactions of rank and file party members - and general public - toward Fidel and Soviet Union.

d. Economic conditions, popular support of regime especially in provinces and outlying areas

e. Pro-Soviet or pro-Chicom alignments of party leaders or rank and file.

5. Addresses of places where Subject is taken to attend meetings, lectures, get instructions, etc. --- also, of his contacts and Communist leaders.

6. ICAP, its role in this trip

a. Contacts and methods of arranging illegal trip in Mexico

- person in charge

- financing

- route

b. Arrival in Habana

(1) Who there to receive him

(2) Entry formalities; what papers or forms to fill out, etc.

(3) Guided tour or free to go any place on his own; lodging arrangements, etc.

c. What Soviets, Sats, or foreign Communists does he meet

d. Take note of, and bring back if possible, any materials printed in Soviet Bloc or Red China,

e. What use are Soviets/Cubans making of American defectors in Cuba; what role are they playing.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)