# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

INFO: DDP, ADDP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/O 4,
CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/FI/C, FI/INT, IW, WH 7,
AD/CI 2, DD/1, AD/NE

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET 120292 DEC 12 08352 63 IN 78746

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 3927

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMICE-14, FROM AMTRUNK-7 WITH PARA 1 FROM HUMBERTO

(BERGARA) MEMBER OF A DRE-SPONSORED INFILTRATION TEAM, WHO OBTAINED

THE INFORMATION FROM UNIDENTIFIED LOCAL FISHERMEN AND PARA 2 FROM

IRENE (MILIAN) THE WIDOW OF JUAN MANUEL (MILIAN), WHO RECEIVED THE
INFORMATION IN A CALL FROM MAGDALENA ((MONTESINO)), THE MOTHER OF LAZARO

(CORALIO (ALEJANDRO) MONTESINO) PLEASE PROTECT SUBSOURCES.

RID: NO INDEX. FILED 120292

REPORT CLASS SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: ARRESTS AND MILITIA VIGILANCE IN THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF

IN COMMENT:

> NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
> OR PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN
> MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PERE
> - BY THE ACTION-UNIT

RELEASING IRO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

LIAISON:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Sees 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

# CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES

IN 78746

DATE OF INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

1.  AS OF 5 DECEMBER 1963, THE NORTHERN COASTAL AREA OF MATANZAS PROVINCE, PARTICULARLY THAT IN THE VICINITY OF RIO PALMA (N 23-04, W 84-54), WAS UNDER MILITIA SURVEILLANCE.

2.  AS OF 9 DECEMBER, MANY PERSONS HAD BEEN ARRESTED IN MARTI, ITABO, AND MAXIMO GOMEZ, MATANZAS PROVINCE, AND MILITIA WERE ALL ALONG THE COASTLINE IN THIS AREA.

3.  FIELD DISSEM: CINCLANT, CINCSO, COMNAVKEYWEST, USCG (MIAMI).

END OF MESSAGE

# SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

1K OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)