# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ACTION REQUIRED: FTI

REFERENCE: CPCA-24799

1. Headquarters traces on the Subjects of reference and the Hudson Institute follow:

A. Alberto LLERAS Camargo (201-102576) was born in Bogota, 3 July 1908. He left school at the age of seventeen to become a journalist. He traveled to Argentian and lived in Buenos Aires for three years (1926-29) writing for various Argentina periodicals. His political career began upon his return to Colombia in 1939, when he was appointed secretary of the Liberal Party (1930-33) and received tremendous impetus under the regis of Alfonso LOPEZ, Liberal Party leader and former President of Colombia (1936-38 and 1942-43). Subsequently, LLERAS served in the National House of Representatives (1991-34), then alfonso LOPEZ was inaugurated President in 1934, he took LLERAS into his government as Secretary General of the Presidency (1934-35), and later made him Minister of Government from 1943 to 1945. The latter year he was made Minister of Foreign Affairs, as well as first Vice President of Colombia. His public service culminated then in his accession to the Presidency on the resignation of President LOPEZ in 1945. After discharging the duties of Chief Executive for a year (1945-46), LLERAS was elected Secretary General of the Pan American Union in 1947, a post which he held until 1954. He then resigned and returned to Colombia to accept the position of Rector (President) of the University of The Andes (1955-56). Devoting himself once again to politics, LLERAS began writing a column in the Liberal Daily El Espectador. In his columns he strongly criticized the Rojas regime and called for the return of constitutional government in Colombia. In March 1956, he was elected President of the Liberal Party and shortly thereafter (June 1956) travelled to Spain and had conversations with Laureano GOMEZ, a leader of the Conservative Party and former President of Colombia (1950-53). These two political leaders signed a manifesto condemning the Rojas regime and

(CONTINUED)

UFOW-6130

SECRET

201-102578

*   WH/C/R2/OS
*   WH/C/NSEC
*   201-308736

201-308736

WE/C/RR/OS
V. Ullery rst 23 Aug 66 2631

WE/C/RR

WE/C/HO

R. Ortasa (phone)

WH/C/CA/PP

A. Gonzales (draft)

Thomas J. Fleeges


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

STOX-4133

lists for the establishment of a coalition government in Colombia
through bi-partisan efforts, from November 1956 to February 1957
LLIAS served as a United Nations Observer to investigate the Hungarian
situation.

LLIAS is described as a champion of the Pan American cause
and as being very friendly to the United States and a firm believer
in the Western type democracy.

Although he did not complete his education and has no formal
degree, he has long been addressed as "doctor" as a matter of courtesy.
He does, however, have honorary degrees from several Colombian univer-
sities as well as from the University of California. He speaks
English and French, is married to the former Berta PUGA (daughter of a
late President of Chile) and has four children.

On 24 February 1958 an Operational Approval was granted for
the utilization of LLIAS in supporting a special operation. However,
before the operation was implemented, LLIAS was elected President of
Colombia. There has been no operational interest in him since.

B. There are no Headquarters of LKL00 traces on the Redzon
Institute per se, however, LKL00 files contain derogatory information
on several members of the institute which LKL00 will furnish WOFACT
if we specify which of the members are of interest. If JENAVE wished
this done, please advise on which of the members information is re-
quested.

C. There are no identifiable traces on the other subjects
of paragraph 5 of reference.

2. Headquarters defers to JENAVE regarding AMRAZI/1's future
   association with the institute.

HOWARD R. COLLEARY

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - COS, JENAVE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)