# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 45 PER TOTAL COPIES 37-2 RU:

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
RF. FILE. VR. BY AT Z
CHAS ISES, YEURG, ISIAlıc ISIA/FL
ACTION # ISTA, day dees/E2 Batado

T 325447 Ε1A549 PAGE 01 IN 459495

TOR:0910012 NOV 77 HAGU 33077

SECRET 0909452 NOV 77 STAFE

CITE THE HAGUE 33077

TO: DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MHCOLOR

REF: ONHA-40410 4 MAY 1977

1. SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER Source INDICATES THAT ON 3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO AMERICA ON 18TH" AND THAT HE " IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR 3 OCTOBER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY. OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO SCHEUDLE MEET WITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED. OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN..

3. ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE CONTACT WITH CUBAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000

7-71 MFG. 7/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY________PER.__________________TOTAL COPIES______________RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED________BY_______AT_______Z

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHII

STAFF

|     |     |
| --- | --- |
| 1   | 4   |
| 2   | 5   |
| 3   | 6   |

ACTION UNIT   INFO RF. FILE. VR.

ACTION #

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 22-02 IN 459495

TOR:091001Z NOV 77 HAGU 33077

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME
OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF
INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE
AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HQS DEEMS
IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE,
WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 221-155221, E2, IMPDET.

+ c/s SUGGESTS ADD: DISSEM TO: OZC

-- SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)