104-10194-10024

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL RIVIERED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MINEPERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: HUNT, E. HOWARD (CONTRACT

INCLUSIVE DATES: 6 Jumsary 1965-3 Alec 1970

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM: SE13

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 2/28/78       | 2/28/78       | LIAN Hardway             | tain Hundy                      |
| 3/15/78       | 3/15/78       | DAN HARDWAY              | Dan Harday                      |

TS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

SECRET

CRABANAC, Terence S.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Contruct Service - Terence S Crahamge (P) 65

| Date        | Action                                                                    | Comp. - Gt     |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| 4.July 65   | Hired as a Contract Employee with Civil Service Retirement, CPA and PSIs. | 19,550 GS-15/7 |
| 10 Oct 65.  | LPI                                                                       | 20,575 GS-15/7 |
| 3 July, 66. | LPI                                                                       | 21,192 GS-15/7 |
| 17 Sept 66  | Contract Terminaled                                                       | 21,192 GS-15/7 |

Converted to Staff Employee Status


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Finance

THROUGH: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Engagement of F. Howard Hunt as Independent
Contractor Under Memorandum of Oral Contract

1. Effective 2 November 1970, subject was retained under oral contract to write citation concerning an employee of CIA for a fee of $250.00. The completed citation was delivered to and accepted by CIA on 23 November 1970.

2. Subject is a former CIA Staff Employee who retired effective 30 April 1970.

3.  Subject is to be paid his fee of $250.00 under Fan Account Number 1176-0041. At Mr. Hunt's request, payment is to be made in the form of two sterile checks, one in the amount of $200.00 payable to the Public Service Aid Society, and the second in the amount of $50.00 payable to the Educational Aid Fund. Please forward both checks to Mr. Ben DeFelice, 5E-67 Headquarters..

4. No other commitments have been made to subject.

APPROVED:

Approving Officer
Office of Personnel

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

3 JUL 1970

Date

SECRET

![Stamp with number 68 - 1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

1 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Terence S. CRABANAC

on instructions of the Deputy Director for Plans,
and with approvals from the DCJ and the DDCI, was converted
to contract employment and resigned to Spain for a special
undertaking in behalf of the DD/P. He left for Spain in July
1965 and returned to the U. S. in June 1966 having completed
his assignment successfully. If an evaluative comment is needed
to cover his work during this period of time he should be rated
as "strong".

Thomas H. Karamessines
Assistant Deputy Director for Plans

Orig & 1 - Director of Personnel
via C/EUR
1 - ADD/P


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

3 October 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, TRB

SUBJECT: Verification of Contract Service for

1.  The following is a record of subject's contract service with the Agency:

| Date              | Action              | Compensation      |
| ----------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- |
| 4 July 1965       | Contract Employee   | $19,880 per annum |
| 10 October 1965   | Salary Increase     | $20,595 per annum |
| 3 July 1966       | Salary Increase     | $21,192 per annum |
| 17 September 1966 | Contract Terminated | $21,192 per annum |

2.  All of above service is creditable for both leave and Civil Service Retirement purposes.

Dow H. Luetscher

Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

2 - CPD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

26 SEP 195

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

ATTENTION : Paul R. Wilson

SUBJECT : Verification of Contract Service

In order to establish the salary, LCD and to compute the SCD for both leave and retirement purposes, it is necessary to verify the contract service and salary of

, DOB 9 October 1918, who claims employ-ment with this Agency in a contract status from 4 July 1965 to 17 September 1966.

Lowell P. Moore
Deputy Chief, Transactions & Records Branch

SECRET

![GROUP 1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

This is to advise that effective 17 September 1966 I will resign from employment with the United States Government as provided in the contractual agreement effective 4 July 1965. It is understood that my status as a Staff Employee will be effective 18 September 1966, the day following my resignation as a Contract Employee.

Terence S. CRABANAC

APPROVED:

European Contract Approving Officer

Date

APPROVED:

/s/ Dow H. Luetscher

Special Contracting Officer

REVIEWED:

/s/ Dow H. Luetscher.

![image of stamp with text redacted from sensitive material]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

14 July 1966

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Terence S. CRABANAC (P)

The ADDP requested the writer to personnally bring CRABANAC's file to him for review this date. I was informed by Mr. Karamessines that Subject has now returned to headquarters for reassignment and will not be returning to Madrid, as his duties have been fulfilled there.

When the DDP decides CRABANAC's next assignment, ADDP will inform us of such and action desired. CRABANAC's travel accounting was given to C/E/B&F for preparation and processing of the voucher for Subject's return travel.

![Signature of Charles J. Francis]

Charles J. Francis
AC/E/SS

CFrancis/cls: 14 Jul 66

SECRET

![Marking near the word SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Support

SUBJECT: Request for Exception to Provision of FR 45-10D - Terence S. CRABANAC (P)

1. This memorandum contains a recommendation in paragraph 4 for the approval of the Deputy Director for Support.

2. Terence S. CRABANAC (P) is a Contract Employee assigned to the Madrid area in Spain in a sensitive assignment since his conversion from a Staff Employee on 4 July 1965. CHABANAC was a GS-15, step 7 ($19,880.00 per annum) and he is being paid at the same rate in his present contract status. His contract provides that he will be entitled to a living quarters allowance in conformance with regulations of this organization applicable to its appointed personnel.

3. The basic living quarters allowance for Class II officers in Madrid is $2,900 per annum. The house which CRABANAC has located, with a one year lease from 15 November 1965 to 14 November 1966, has an annual rent of $6,600.00 excluding utilities. Therefore, for rent alone, he will be $1,960.00 per year over the 160 percent maximum allowed under the provisions of FR 45-10b. On a 75/25 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent over the quarters allowance, he would be out of pocket $3,395.00.

4. Due to the operational sensitivity of CRABANAC'S assignment, his request for relief on his housing costs was handled by Mr. Thomas Karamessines, ADDP. On 15 September 1965, Mr. Karamessines, ADDP, approved his being reimbursed on a 75/25 percent basis for the excess allowable costs up to, but not to exceed, 60 percent above his quarters allowance. This authorization was included in a letter to CRABANAC from Mr. Karamessines. It is requested that the Deputy Director


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

for Support authorize the 75/35 percent sharing of the excess allowable costs up to 60 percent above his quarters allowance.

/S/
Edward Ryan'
Acting Chief
Western Europe Division

Recommendation in paragraph 4 is authorised:

Charles H. Davis
Deputy Director for Support

9 NOV 1965
Date

DDP/VE/88:DavisB.Powell/aj/6189 (8Nov65)

Distribution:
Orig.
- C/WE
  2 - SSA-DD/S
  1 - C/WE/SS
  1 - WE/LO
  1 - WE/PT
  1 - WK/BP
  1 - WE/5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

Chief, Western Europe Division 18 October 1965

ATT: Support Staff

Compensation and Tax Division
Office of Finance

Duty Status Reports-Terence S. CRABANAC, Employee Number 179080

Reference: FEB 20-1000-1, paragraph 5.

1.  To date there is no record of receipt of Forms 764, Duty Status Reports, for Terence S. CRABANAC since his ROD 4 July 1965. Those reports are required in order to maintain his leave account in accordance with the terms of paragraph 6(e) of his contract and to preclude action to withhold pay in accordance with requirements of the referenced handbook.

2.  It is requested that this office be advised as to the reason for the delay in the submission of these Duty Status Reports.

LUCILE P. TWOGOOD
Chief,
Contract Employees Accounts Section
Agent Payroll Branch

TO: Compensation and Tax Division
Office of Finance

ATTENTION: Lucile F. Twogood

FROM: Chief of Support, WE Division

Per conversation with Mr. Thomas Keramessines, ADDP, there will be no Duty Status Reports (Form 764) submitted on Terence S. CRABANAC. This should be used as the authority to continue his pay without these reports.

Davis B. Powell
Chief of Support
WE Division

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

October 18, 1965

Dear Howard,

Your Insurance representative has passed along some information concerning reimbursement to you by means of deposits to your bank account. So that you will understand the reason and the source of deposits which show up on your bank statement, here is the run-down for the present:

| Amount of Deposit | Approx Date of Deposit | Reason for Payment                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ----------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| $ 5.00            | Sep 9                  | Settlement of claim for son Howard (settlement sheet enclosed)                                                                                                                                 |
| $216.06           | Oct 7                  | Settlement of following claims:<br>You...........$ 47.68<br>Lisa........... 112.88<br>Kevan........... 24.50<br>Howard.......... 31.00<br>$ 216.06<br>(Four settlement sheets are enclosed.)   |
| $505.75           | Oct 7                  | Settlement of following claims:<br>Lisa..........$ 112.49<br>Kevan........... 63.75<br>Kevan........... 189.74<br>Lisa........... 139.77<br>$ 505.75<br>(Four settlement sheets are enclosed.) |
| $ 60.00           | To be made Nov 4       | Refund of advance premium payments made on your life insurance policy which you cancelled.                                                                                                     |

I am also forwarding herewith some bills and receipts which your insurance representative has returned with appropriate notations on each. I believe you will want to retain these for possible future use.

Sincerely,

John


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

4 October 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division,
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT : Terence S. CRABANAC (P), Contract Employee
Request for Contract Amendment

1. It is requested that Subject's contract, which was effective 4 July 1965, be amended with respect to living quarters allowances so as to authorize reimbursement for 75% of the excess allowable costs up to, but not in excess of, 60% of the standardized quarters allowance.

2. The proposal for this 75%/25% sharing basis, in lieu of the standard 50%/50% basis, has been reviewed and approved by Mr. Thomas H. Karamessines.

![signature of Davis B. Powell]

Davis B. Powell
Chief, WE Support Staff

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

15 September 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Thomas H. Karamessines

SUBJECT : Madrid Housing

1. The following is a listing of the GS-13 and above staff employees and their quarters costs as of April 1965:

| Grade & No. of Dependents | Allowance | Cost   | Cost to Individual |
| ------------------------- | --------- | ------ | ------------------ |
| (COS)GS-16 (3)            | $2,900    | $4,236 | All cost paid      |
| GS-15 (1)                 | 2,900     | 3,132  | $116               |
| GS-15 (0)                 | 2,000     | 1,800  | 0                  |
| GS-14 (5)                 | 2,900     | 2,796  | 0                  |
| GS-14 (5)                 | 2,900     | 3,840  | 450                |
| GS-13 (3)                 | 2,000     | 2,280  | 140                |
| GS-13 (3)                 | 2,000     | 2,472  | 236                |
| GS-13 (5)                 | 2,000     | 2,544  | 272                |

2. Mr. Hunt's quarters allowance is $2,900. Using the same formula as applied to the other staff employees at the Station, the following would be the figures:

$2,900 + 60% ($1,740) - $4,640

On a 50/50 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent, he would be out-of-pocket $870 if his costs were $4,6-10.

On a 75/25 percent sharing basis of the 60 percent, he would be out-of-pocket $135, if his costs were $4,640.

3. I would recommend he be authorized the 75/25 per- cent sharing basis of the allowable excess costs up to, but not to exceed, 50 percent above his quarters allowance.

Davis B. Powell
Chief
WE Support

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# SECRET

3 September 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Divisica

SUBJECT: General - Terrence S. CRABANAC - Supplement
Specific - Paragraph Entitled "Offset"

REFERENCE: A. OGC Opinion 65-2476a, dated 12 August 1965

B. Our Memo, dated 8 July 1965, Same Subject

1. This office herein recommends an ammendment to CRABANAC's Supplement dated 4 July 1965, to delete paragraph 7. entitled "Offset."

2. This office acknowledges the OGC opinion, Reference A, which determined CRABANAC may retain without Agency salary offset any future royalties earned as a result of his literary efforts based on the fact cover does not include role of a writer.

3. As Subject's cover "activities" have been officially clarified as being only a light one of a retired Foreign Service Officer for which the Agency will be making all entitlement payments and actually he will receive no funds from any cover, this paragraph, which is misleading, has no meaning in Subject's contract and it is hereby recommended that it be deleted from CPABANAC's Supplement.

4. Further, in future cases when a cover is so light that Subject will not be receiving funds from cover it is recommended that no "Offset" paragraph be included in Supplements or Contracts.

WILLIAM R. CAULFIELD
Chief, Covert Clains Branch

Attachment
Ref. A and B

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

OGC 65-2476a
12 AUG 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Terence S. CRABANAC - Retention of Royalties by a Contract Employee

1. You have requested the opinion of this Office in regard to the retention of future royalties which might be earned by Terence S. CRABANAC as a result of his literary efforts. We believe that he is entitled to retain such röyalties without an offset against his Agency salary.

2. We have been advised by Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support, that CRABANAC's cover does not include the role of a writer; CRABANAC'S cover for status will only be a light one of a retired Foreign Service Officer. Therefore, paragraph 7 of his contract dated 4 July 1965 may remain as written. Royalties from the fictional works that he writes as a profitable hobby will not be emoluments received from or through his "cover activities."

![signature of norman d block]
NORMAN D. BLOCK
Office of General Counsel

cc: Chief, Covert Claims Branch
Mr. Gene Stevens, WE/Support

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

MEMORANDUM FOR : Office of General Counsel

ATTENTION : Norman Block

SUBJECT : Terence S. Crabanac -- Retention of Royalties by a Contract Employee

3 AUG 196

1. Reference is made to the telephone conversation of 26 July 1965 between yourself and Rogers C. Brooks of this Office wherein background information relating to the assignment of Terence S. Crabanac was discussed.

2. Subject will apparently develop a cover as a writer, a field wherein he has an already demonstrated talent based upon several publications. The objective of the cover is to provide a basis of attribution for some of his income. At the time of the preparation of Mr. Crabanac's contract, the specific detail of his cover was unknown.

3. Request your opinion in regard to the retention of possible royalties earned by Crabanac as a result of his literary efforts or whether such income should be properly offset.

Joseph B. Ragan
Chief, Contract Personnel Division

Attachments.

OP/CPD: RCBrooks/cw: 2 August 1965.

Distribution:

Orig & 1 -- Addressee

2 -- CPD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIF ION TOP AND BUTIUN
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   |                  |      |          |
| 2   |                  |      |          |
| 3   | Wire/PT- St      |      |          |
| 4   |                  |      |          |
| 5   |                  |      |          |
| 6   |                  |      |          |

|  | ACTION | DIRECT REPLY | CIKBS 9718 |
|  | APPROVAL | DISPATCH | PREPARE REPLY 923 |
|  | COMMENT | FILE | RECOMMENDATION |
|  | CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION | RETURN |
|  |  |  | SIGNATURE |

Remarks:

Assume you wise to anted then to our jeli in vreviously stoties. There is su risson for luin to Transition allowanen. If you are in couch with inebened pils surse hum scene. I want Luin to evit a postiffice.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE
14

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM NO 237 Use previous editions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

From Security to which he can send his financial accounts. This will reduce contact with station.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET

6 July 1965

PLY NCI : BRIEFING REPORT

DATE: 7 July 1965

STATUS: Contract Employee

SUBJECT: Terence CABANAC

COVER: Non-Official - Writer

DESTINATION: Madrid Spain

DEPENDENTS: Wife and four children
14 12 11 and 21

Subject was advised that this briefing was being held to review with him
the official financial business and personal aspects created as a result of
his assignment. He was told that a report of the briefing would be prepared
and that copy would be forwarded to the KUS RX office responsible for his
administration.

Subject is proceeding abroad as a retired OD CID officer who is now
pursuing a career as a writer.

Subject had read his Contract. The persons present at the briefing were
Subject and wife, Division Budget and Fiscal Officer, payroll representative,
and the undersigned Certifying Officer.

The payroll representative briefed Subject regarding his compensation,
Headquarters payrolled allowances, tax withholding and deductions. A pro-
posed Foreign Duty Data Sheet was used and an official copy will be sent to
the office administering Subject upon receipt of a notification Subject has
arrived in place. The Tax Committee representative had briefed Subject as
to the procedure by which he will fulfill his Federal tax reporting require-
ments - see below Section III entitled "Taxes". All questions raised by
Subject during the briefing were answered to his apparent satisfaction. There
were two points which were to reviewed further by WE, they were:

a. Review of Supplement relative to quarters allowance being pay-
rolled and non-accountable.

b. Determination of authorization and amount of a Transport tion allowance.

Plans call for Subject to establish through Monetary Division an opera-
tional bank account. This fund will serve his operation incountry while in
Madrid he is to have no (or limited) contact with the station. All/major points
of the briefing are discussed below:

![stamp Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

I. Funding and Accounting

A. Headquo ters

(1) Will payroll Subject's compensation (and allowance) authorised deductions. (Specify allowances as applicable)

(2) Will advance PCI travel funds and audit accounting which is to be submitted by Subject when accounting complete.

(3) Will advance funds and receive as ountings to operational fund.

His first accounting will be upon coving into permanent quarters, and Initially quarterly thereafter, unless activity warrants more frequent accounting period.

B. Station

Will provide only emergency support as needed.

C. Cover

(1) Subject has no legitimate cover from which through agreement with KUBARK bo would receive payments.

(2) Paragraph 7 entitled OFFSLF is in question with contracting office As to what is intended as Subject's only income from cover. activities appear to be income from his writings. Subject is under impression Income from writings not to be refundable.

I. Terus of Contract and Additional Items

(11) Allowances

Subject was informed that allowances were subject to fluctuation as a result of Standardized or KUBARK regulations changes.

(11a.) Subject was advised to notify Headquarters of changes in his family status as such changes would effect allowances being payrolled where rates are determined by Subject's family status.

(12) Receipts

Subject was advised that a receipt is required where practicable or a certification in lieu of receipt should be submitted for all reimbursable expenses in the amount of $15.00 or more.

(20). Travel

Subject was briefed in general regarding reimbursable incidental expenses and travel entitlements in regard to his proposed itinerary. Among the points covered were the following:

A. Per Diem rates applicable to Subject's proposed itinery

B. Excess baggage provisions when economy/tourist flights are used

# SECRET

![text Excludes tram stomach downgrading and geckocsit.callos]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

C. Use of less than first loss at travel accomodations

D. Use of American atelices

(30) Effects Shiprent
Subject vas triefed in general regarding his KUBANK authorfastions as follows:

A. The combined shipping and storage of household effects to limited to 13,500 pounds net fo. Subject.

B. Full shipcent is authorized.

C. Subject vas advised the total of the amount of the effects stored and shipped shall not exceed the lisitations for shipssut and storage set forth as 13,500 pounds net.

(31) Unaccompanied Baggage
300 pounde net per traveller which any be used as follows: When entire journey is by surface traceportation the 300 pouml authorization is to be shipped.by surface transpo.tatton, or can be tacluded with household effects shipats.

(33) FOREIGN CUSTOM DUTIES
As Subject to unde non-offtefal cover be cay be required to pay foreign lapot duty s this regulatory authorization was discussed.

(43) Transportation Allowance
Subject will te toxing his personal car and reported ba viil be authorised a Transportation Allowance tot yet deterated by Division. The Allowance is to te paid monthly by Headquarte.s.

(51) Temporary Lodging Allowance
Subject vas advised be would be entitled to the allowane and he var briefed as to its provisions as outlined in the standardized Regulatione.

(53) Permanent Perecal Quarters
Subject vos advised that his quarters would be adattatered in accordance with FR40-100, and then the provisions of this degulation vere explained to hiu. However, Division Bar Offt er fatenda to review this point for possible contract samenderat in providing a quarters allorane at saxisun Standardized rate si to be non-occountable.

SECRET

![Exchote: Reclasti]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

(60) Leave

(61a) Subject was inforced of his leave balances as of 3 July 1985:
A/L 37+ hours and S/L 533 hours.

(63) Leave Benefits
Subject vas informed of accruals, use, and carry-over for annual
(360 hours) and stek leave while overseas. Also, he was informed
Headquarters forwards leave balances to the field annually.

(71) Insurance
Subject vas info.wed that costs incurred for insurance protection
of baggage, effects, ar and their shipment are considered personal
and are not reimbursable by KUBARK.

(74) Education and Educational Travel Allowances
These regulatory provisions were dis.ussed as the ages of Subject's
children indicate his elligibility. All offista. employmen are re-
quired to sond children to U. S. Military school, Subject's allowances
will be equal to that authorized for other US non-official personnel
in area..

(81) Operational Expenses
Subject was briefed in general toros egarding advances, control,
safekeeping, accounting, receipts, and other supporting authori-
tative documentation.

(82) Operational Entertainment
A thorough briefing was given Subject regarding this topic to
accordance with current regulations.

(84) Other Operational Considerations
An operational bank account is being opened through the Monetary
Division to house an operational advance - amount yet undeteraired.
Subject vas advised not to co-mingle personal funds with operational
funds. Subject will subatt his first accounting upon occupying
permanent quarters and initially quartely thereafter. Fics this
account TLA and Educational allowance payments vil. be rede and
reported.

III. Taxes
Subject was advised he should file overtly only. Subject's W-2 is to be
forwarded by pouch and his tax return is to se returned by pou'd for mailing
to U. S.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

IV. Banking Arrangements

A. Sutjet has provided Headquarters with his back account for use as his stateside allottec.

B. An operatiocal bank account is to be established.

WILLIAM R. CAULFIELD
Chief, Covert Cloths Bran.b

Distribution:
Orig. and 1 - CCB
1 - C&L
1- Registry
1 - Payroll
1 - WE/Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

8 July 1965

MEMORANDUM FOt: Contract Personnel Division, O/P

SUBJECT : general - Terence S. CRABANAC - Supplement
specific - Paragraph Entitled "OFFSET"

1. This office has a question as to the intent of including paragraph (7.) entitled "OFFSET" es appears in the Contract for Terence S. CRABANAC. The paragraph in question reads as follows:

2. OFFSET

   Emoluments (including benefite in kind) received from or through your cover activities are the property of the U.S. Government. Procedurally, such emolucents will be offset against amounts due you under this agreement and are acknowledged to be payment by the Government hereunder and for Federal income tax purposes. If cover emolumenta exceed those due you under this contrast, you will dispose of the excess amount in conformance with Governmental instructions.

3. Subject reportedly is proceeding abroad under the cover of a retired Foreign Service Officer and in pursuit of his ambitions as a writer, Subject will receive all his contractual benefits through the Agency, there is no cover company, so therefore the only apparent emoluments to be received from or through his cover activities would be earnings received from articles, stories, or books written by him. Please inform this office if its interpretation is correct. If not, we would appreciate your interpretation and reasoning relative to the statement "Emolumento received froa or through your cover activities are the property of the U.S. Governcent."

WILLIAM R. CAULFIELD
Chief, Covert Claims Branch


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

Mr. Terence S. Crabanac

Dear Mr. Crabanac:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, hereby contracts with you as a Contract Employee for the use of your services and the performance of duties of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1.  Compensation. In full consideration for the use of your services and the performance of specified confidential duties you will be compensated in an amount calculated at the rate of $19,880 per annum. In addition, you are herein authorised legislative salary adjustments, within-grade promotions and, if applicable, a post differential in substantial conformance with rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed employees. Payments will be made as requested by you in' writing in an approved manner. Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by this organisation.

2.  Allowances. You will be entitled to: (a) Living quarters allowances in conformance with regulations of this organization applicable to Its appointed personnel. In the event you are furnished quarters by the Government you will not be entitled to the living quarters allowances herein indicated.

(b) Cost-of-living allowances in conformance with applicable regulations of this organization including, but not limited to, a post allowance, a transfer allowance and a home service transfer allowance.

3.  Travel. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for travel and transportation expenses for you, your dependents, your househo!! effects and your personal automobile to and from your permanent post of assignment, and for you alone for authorised operational travel. In addition, you will be entitled to storage of such household and persona! effects as are not shipped, in conformance with applicable Government regulations. You may be entitled to per diem in lieu of subsistence in the course of all travel performed hereunder and, when authorized, for you alone while on temporary duty away from your permanent post of assignment. All travel, transportation and per diem provided for under this paragraph must be properly authorized, and expenses incurred hereunder are subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations.

4.  Operational Expenses. You will be advanced or reimbursed funds for necessary operational expenses including, but not limited to, entertainment and the purchase of information, as specifically approved by the Government. Such funds will be subject to payment and accounting in compliance with applicable Government regulations.

5.  Repayment. It is recognised that your failure to account for or refund any monies advanced you hereunder shall entitle the Government to withhold the total amount of such indebtedness or any portion thereof from any monies due you under the terms of this contract in such manner as it deems appropriate.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# 6. Benefits. (a) You will be entitled to death and disabilit, benefits equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended. Clairns by you, your heirs, or legal representatives under this paragraph will be processed by this organization in accordance with its procedures in such manner as not to impair security.

(b) You will be entitled to the continuance of pay and allowances in a manner similar to that set forth in the Missing Persons Act (50 U.S.C.A., App. 1001-1015).

(c) You will be entitled to sick, annual and home leave (including travel expenses incident thereto) equal to and subject to the same rules and regulations applicable to Government appointed employees. Annual leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by appropriate Government representatives. All accrued but unused leave credited to your former account as an appointed employee of this organisa- tion will be transferred to the leave account established for you hereunder.

(d) As a Government employee under contract converted from staff status without a break in service, it is required that you continue to make contributions to the Civil Service Retirement Fund. Such contri- butions (presently six and one/half per cent (0-1/2%)) will be deducted by the Government from the basic compensation due you hereunder, i.e.. presently $19,880 per annum.

(e) You are herein authorized to apply for enrollment in a health insurance program for certain selected Contract Employees of this organization, subject to all the terms and conditions of that program. If accepted, this organization is presently authorized to bear a portion.of... the premium cost, you will bear the remainder. Your financial contribution will be effected either by payroll deduction or by direct remittance at periodic intervals to be established by this organization.

(f) (1) This organization is authorized to pay the cost of necessary hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury incurred by a United States citizen full-time Contract Employee in the line of duty while abroad.

(2) This organization may pay certain necessary costs of hospitalization and related travel expenses for illness or injury incurred by the dependents of a United States citizen full-time Contract Employee permanently assigned abroad, while they are located abroad.

It is understood and agreed that the eligibility and extent of the participation by you and your dependents in the above medical programs will be in con- formance with the rules, regulations and policies of this organization in effect at the time an illness or injury is incurred, that all claims will be submitted only to this organization and that adjudication of such claims by this organization shall be final and conclusive.

# 7. Offset. Emoluments (including benefits in kind) received from or through your cover activities are the property of the U. S. Government. Procedurally, such emoluments will be offset against amounts due you under this agreement and are acknowledged to be payment by the Govern- ment hereunder and for Federal income tax purposes. If cover emoluments exceed those due you under this contract, you will dispose of the excess amount in conformance with Governmental instructions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

5. Execution of Documents. If, in the performance of services under this contract, you assume the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wherever situate, which property has in fact been purchased with monies of the U. S. Government, you hereby recognise and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

9. Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage Laws, dated 25 June 1943, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.

10. Instructions. Instructions received by you from the Goverament in briefing, training or otherwise are a part of this contract and are incorporated herein, provided that such instructions are not inconsistent with the terms hereof.

11. Unauthorized Commitinents. No promises or commitments pertaining to rights, privileges or benefits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this agreement or any amendment thereto shall be binding on the Government.

12. Term. This contract is effective as of 4 July 1965 , and shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated:

(a) Upon sixty (60) days' actual notice by either party hereto, or

(b) Upon actual notice to you in the event the results of an initially required medical examination are determined by this organization to be unsatisfactory, or

(c) Without prior notice by the Government, in the event of a breach of this contract by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your otherwise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this agreement may be extended upon notice from the Government. In the event of voluntary termination on your part or termination for cause by the Government prior to the expiration of this agreement or any renewal thereof, you will not be entitled to return travel expenses to the United States. Termination of this agreement will not release you from the obligations of any security oath you may be required to take.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY DHL
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

151

WITNESS:

151

APPROVED:

151


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST
(CONTINUED)
NOTE: SEE INSTRUCTIONS ON FIRST SHEET.

LAST OFFICER: Gene Stevens
TELEPHONE EXTENSION: 7157
E/PT
DATE: 24 June 1965

SECTION VIII

48. BENEFITS (See NR 20.44; MR 30-41; NR 20.7; NR 20-33, and NR 20-620-1. NR 20-1000-1 and or successor regulations for benefits applicable to various categories of contract personnel.)

All Benefits Normally Applicable To Staff Personnel Except FEGLI.

SECTION IX

47. STATUS (Check): X PROPOSED
48. TYPE (Check): TOURIST OTHER
49. IF COVER PAYMENTS ARE CONTEMPLATED. THEY WILL BE EFFECTED ON REIMBURSABLE BASIS. YES NO COMPLETE PARTIAL

SECTION X

50. OFFSET OF INCOME AND OTHER EMOLUMENTS DERIVED FROM COVER ACTIVITIES (If less than total, justify in separate memo attached hereto.): TOTAL PARTIAL NONE

SECTION XI

51. DURATION: 2 YEARS
52. EFFECTIVE DATE: 4 July 1965
53. RENEWABLE: YES NO
54. TERMINATION NOTICE (Number of days): 60 da
55. FORFEITURE OF RETURN TRAVEL FOR RESIGNATION PRIOR TO CONTRACT TERMINATION: YES NO

SECTION XII

56. PRIMARY FUNCTION (CI, PI, PP, other):

SECTION XIII

57. GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES TO BE PERFORMED

Intel Officer

SECTION XIV

58. EXPERIENCE

QUALIFICATIONS

59. EDUCATION

GRADE SCHOOL GRADUATE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
TRADE SCHOOL GRADUATE
BUSINESS SCHOOL GRADUATE
COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE
Check Highest Level Attained
COLLEGE (No degree)
COLLEGE DEGREE
POST GRADUATE
MD
PHD

60. LANGUAGE COMPETENCY: LANGUAGE: SPEAK WRITE READ INDIVIDUAL'S COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
    Check Appropriate Degree Competency:

62. AREA KNOWLEDGE

SECTION XV

EMPLOYMENT PRIOR TO CIA

63. GIVE INCLUSIVE DATES, POSITION TITLE OR TYPE CODE, SALARY AND REASON FOR LEAVING

SECTION XVI

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

64. ADDITIONAL OR UNUSUAL REQUIREMENTS. JUSTIFICATIONS. OR EXPLANATIONS (See other side if necessary)

DATE: 24 June 65
TYPED NAME & SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OPERATING OFFICIAL
APPROVAL
DATE
TYPED NAME & SIGNATURE OF APPROVING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

CONTRACT INFORMATION AND CHECK LIST

RESTRICTIONS:
Line NB 20.33 and 10.1000.1 for guidance.
Complete all items. Insert interim when items are not applicable. Forward original and TRO copies for preparation of contract.

## SECTION I

1. NAME: Terence S. CRAHANAC

2A. PROJECT:

2B. PERMANENT STATION: Madrid, Spain.

3. ALLOTMENT NO.: 6136-1347

4. SLOT NO.

5. PREVIOUS CIA PSEUDONYM OR ALIASES: $23-50)

6. INDIVIDUAL HAS BEEN ENGAGED BY CIA OR ITS ALLIED ACTIVITIES IN SOME CAPACITY PRIOR TO THIS CONTRACT: (i.e., des. date and include dates and salary.) Staff Employee November 1949 - July 1965
   Terminal Salary GS-15 step 7, $1,180 per annum

7. SECURITY CLEARANCE (Type and date): Type A Granted 23 June 65

7A. MEDICAL CLEARANCE: OBTAINED [X] INITIATED NOT REQUIRED.

8. CONTRACT IS TO BE WRITTEN IN STERILE FORM I.E., "U.S. GOVERNMENT": [X] YES NO

9. INDIVIDUAL WILL WORK UNDER "CONTROLLED CONDITIONS" I.E., REGULAR OFFICE HOURS AWAY FROM SUBJECT'S HOME AND PERFORMED UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A STAFF EMPLOYEE OR STAFF AGENT: YES [X] NO

10. PROPOSED CATEGORY (Contract agent, contract employee, etc.): Contract Employee

## SECTION II

11. CITIZENSHIP: U.S.

12. IF NOT U.S. CITIZEN, INDIVIDUAL IS A PERMANENT RESIDENT ALIEN: YES NO

13. AGE: 46

14. DATE OF BIRTH (Month, day, year): Oct. 9, 1918

15. LEGAL RESIDENCE (City and state or country): Largo, Florida

16. CURRENT RESIDENCE (City and state or country): Bethesda, Maryland

17. MARITAL STATUS (Check as appropriate): SINGLE MARRIED WIDOWED ANNULLED DIVORCED

18. NUMBER OF DEPENDENTS (Not including individual) RELATIONSHIP AND AGE:

19. INDIVIDUAL IS RELATED TO A STAFF EMPLOYEE, STAFF AGENT OR AN INDIVIDUAL CURRENTLY WORKING FOR THE AGENCY IN SOME CAPACITY RELATIONSHIP: YES [X] NO

Wife - 45
Dau - 14
Dau - 12
Son - 11
Son - 21 Mos.

## SECTION III

20. RESERVE: No

21. VETERAN: Yes

22. IF RETIRED, INDICATE CATEGORY (Longevity, combat disability, service disability non-combat):

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE:

24. RANK OR GRADE:

25. DRAFT ELIGIBLE: YES [X] NO

26. DRAFT DEFERMENT OBTAINED BY CIA: YES NO

## SECTION IV

27. BASIC SALARY: $19,880 per annum

28. POST DIFFERENTIAL: none

29. COVER (Breakdown, if any): none

## SECTION V

ALLOWANCES (NORMALLY GRANTED ONLY TO RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED STATES)

31. QUARTERS: yes

32. POST: yes

33. OTHER: Cost-of-living, Education, TLA

34. COVER (Breakdown, if any): none

## SECTION VI TRAVEL

35. TYPES: [X] PCS DOMESTIC OPERATIONAL FOREIGN OPERATIONAL

36. WITH DEPENDENTS: [X] YES NO

37. MHE TO BE SHIPPED: [X] YES NO

37A. MHE TO BE STORED: YES [X] NO

38. PERSONAL VEHICLE TO BE SHIPPED: [X] YES NO

39. TRANSPORTED VEHICLE TO BE USED FOR OPERATIONAL TRAVEL: YES [X] NO

40. IF WITH DEPENDENTS STATE RELATIONSHIP, CITIZENSHIP, AGE AND DATE OF BIRTH:

Wife - U. S. - 45 - April 1, 1920
Dau - U. S. - 14 - March 9, 1951
Dau - U. S. - 12 - November 27, 1952
Son - U.S. - 11 - March 22, 1954
Son - U.S. - 21 mos. - September 1, 1963

41. PAYMENT AND ACCOUNTABILITY BILL BE IN CONFORMANCE WITH CIA REGULATIONS COVER POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

## SECTION VII OPERATIONAL EXPENSES

42. PURCHASE OF INFORMATION: yes, when authorized

43. ENTERTAINMENT: yes, when authorized

44. OTHER:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

6 January 1965

MEMORANDUM TO: Benefits & Services Division

SUBJECT: Cause of Iliness - E. Howard Hunt

1. Having been requested to give an opinion regarding the origins of the duodenal ulcer for which I was hospitalized wctober 12-15, 1964, I believe it to have resulted from three years of vork frustration and professional dissatisfactions occasioned by (a) Agency failure to assign me to an appropriate post abroad following my participation in Froject JMATE, and (b) the passive, non-challenging naturo of the domestic work I was given.

2. I should point out that before joining Project JMATE in May, 1960, I requested in writing, and vas granted by responsiblu senior officials, commitment to return me to an appropriate assignment abroad upon the termination of JMATE. Despite continuing verbal assurances in the ensuing three years I was not sent abroad. Instead, I was retained in domostic duties which I felt were inconsistent with the beavier responsibilities discharged by se during a long and active operational career sbrosi.

3. The T/O position I have been occupying - Chief of Covert Action for DO Division is the equivalent of a 1953-54 assignment as Chief of Covert Action for SE Division. Organisationally I am where I was 11-12 years ago, but with a smaller staff and cauy fever responsibilities.

4. To me this represented a professional dead-end, without hope of promotion or foreign assignment, a situation which preoccupied my mind and in due course found physical reflection in duoisai bemorrhage.

5. For the record, the foregoing information is not volunteered, but provided in response to an official request.

HOWARD HUNT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

7 December 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. E. Howard Hunt

SUBJECT : BEC Claim

1. Returned herewith is CA-1 (in duplicate) and CA-2 (in duplicate) which you completed in connection with your recent illness.

2. The Benefits and Services Division has requested the following information:

a. Statement of medical history - Form 89 attached for this purpose.

b. Full statement from physician, or phystetaan, including nature of illness, treatment, pnosis and statement as to what he thinks may be the cause.

c. Statement from you, describing in full, wat you think the contributing cause may be.

Virginia C. Lynch
DO/Fersonnal

Attachments - A/S


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTABLISHMENT
OF MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP

DATE

ESTABLISHED FOR

TO:
CHIEF, PERSONNEL OPERATIONS DIVISION
(Check)

CHIEF, OPERATING COMFONENT (For action)

ATTN:
FILE NO.

REF:
ID CARD NO.

MILITARY COVER BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED
EMPLOYEE NO.

## KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

Block Records:
(ОРМЕМО 20-800-11)

a. Temporarily for ______ days, effective ______.

b. Continuing, effective ______.

Submit Form 642 to change limitation category.
(HHB 20-7)

Ascertain that Army W-2 being Issued.
(HB 20-661-1)

Submit Form 1322 for any change affecting this cover.
(R 240-250)

Submit Form 1323 for transferring cover responsibility.
(R 240-250)

Remarks:

Cover History

![signature of James H. Franklin]

DISTRIBUTION: Copy I-POD. Copy 3.Operating Component, Copy J.03 D'OS. Copy 4-OL TELSVC. COPY S.PSD. Copy 6-File.

SECRET
(19-20-433


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

MEMORANDUM FOR ATTACHMENT TO CA-2 Flled by E. iloward Hunt

My first knowledge of Mr. Hunt's illness was on the worming of 12 October when his office informed me that he bocame ill and was taken to the hospital with a "bleeding ulcer". He has been on sick leave since that date,

Thos. ?. Schreyer
Executive Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

U. W. WILCOX, M. D.
DIRECTOR

C. W. ARMSTRONG, M. D. and GROOVER, CHRISTIE, MERRITT
ASSOCIATES IN RADIOLOGY, P. A.

PATIENT: IRA M. MERRIMAN
EXAMINATION: LGI
AGE: 6914-M DATE: March 29, 1988
DATE: 2/26/88 MR#: 3944

Upper gastrointestinal content partly seen with a small amount in the duodenal bulb.  A
questionable filling defect is noted.  Please see the reports of Dr. Groover.  Patient is
under care by medical service.  He has cirrhosis and possible adenocarcinoma.

![signature of radiologist]

122/59

CHART COPY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)