# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
MHFNO: 93-3747541 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: , , , ,

STAFF
ACTION: LA/MCGMXB (930) INFO: C/ORMS, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, (0/W)

93 3747541 ASR PAGE 001 IN 3747541
TOR: 032318Z SEP 93 MEXI 31663

SECRET 032317Z SEP 93 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 31663 (SHOLDAR ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/MCGMXB

SLUGS: WNINTEL KDPROTECT

SUBJECT: CONTACT REPORT WITH KDDAGGER/2 AND KDDAGGER/11
201-1458174, 201-1457250

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. A. ASSET: KDDAGGER/2 (D/2)

   B. DATE: 02 SEP 93

   C. TIME: 1800-1900

   D. PLACE: RESTAURANT: MACHO'S ON BARRILACO STREET, NEAR THE CORNER OF PASEO DE LA REFORMA.

   E. MAP COORDINATES: 57; 5-F

   F. C/O AND OTHER PARTICIPANTS: DENNIS R. BRUEGGE

   G. OPS ALIAS USED: NONE

   H. NEXT MEETING: THURSDAY, 16 SEPT 93, AT JOHNNY ROCKETS RESTAURANT, POLANCO (58, 5-A).

2. A. MEETING ARRANGEMENTS: SET AT EACH MEETING. CONTACT WITH D/2 AND D/11 IS MAINTAINED, WHEN NECESSARY, VIA CELLULAR TELEPHONE.

   B. ATMOSPHERICS: N/A.

   C. INTELLIGENCE: DAGGERS NOTED THAT ON 30 AUG 93, A SECOND FORMER RUSSIAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL, ((SHULIPIN)), HAD RETURNED TO THE EMBASSY. DAGGERS BELIEVE SHULIPIN LEFT MEXICO CITY ABOUT MARCH, 1991. HE HAS RETURNED WITH NO APPARENT
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 93-3747541                                                 SECRET                                          PAGE: 2
SENSIND: RYBAT

DIFFERENCE IN RANK OR DUTIES. DAGGERS COMMENTED THAT THEY
FOUND IT STRANGE THAT ANOTHER FORMER RUSSIAN EMBASSY OFFICIAL
(A HARD-LINER) HAD RETURNED TO A FORMER POST SO SOON AFTER
LEAVING, AND WITH NO APPARENT CHANGE IN DUTIES NOR INCREASE IN
RANK.

DAGGERS HAVE NOT SEEN ((ZHILTSOV)) AT THE RUSSIAN
EMBASSY SINCE HE LEFT ON HOME LEAVE.

D. OPERATIONAL:

1. COLLECTED PHOTOS AND KDPEEK IN-OUT COMMENTS.
2. ISSUED DAGGERS A BOX CONTAINING AN UNASSEMBLED
   CD FOR KDPEEK.
3. PAID D/2 THE AUG 93 SALARIES FOR KDHUSTLE/18
   (H/18) AND KDHUSTLE/31 (H/31).

4. D/2 ADVISED HE HAD QUESTIONED H/18 AND H31
   REGARDING THE CISN'S DECISION TO NO LONGER PROVIDE KDPEEK WITH
   THE NEGATIVES TAKEN FROM THE OP. D/2 STATED THE HUSTLES HAD
   INFORMED HIM OF THIS ACTION BY THE CISN ABOUT TWO WEEKS AGO.
   THE HUSTLES, AT D/2'S DIRECTION, MADE SUBTLE INQUIRIES AT CISN
   HQS REGARDING THE REASON FOR CISN'S ACTION, BUT WERE UNABLE TO
   LEARN THE REASON, ONLY THAT IT HAD BEEN A DECISION MADE BY THE
   DEPARTMENT OF VIDEO AND PHOTOGRAPHY AT CISN HQS. THE HUSTLES,
   HOWEVER, IDENTIFIED THEIR IMMEDIATE SUPERVISOR AS LICENCIADA
   ANGELICA CARBAJAL, THE AREA DIRECTOR AS WILFREDO ROBLEDO AND
   ROBLEDO'S ASSISTANT AS INGENIERO (FNU) FIGUEROA. THE HUSTLES
   DO NOT BELIEVE ANY OF THESE INDIVIDUALS WERE INFORMED OF THE
   DECISION BY THE DEPARTMENT OF VIDEO AND PHOTOGRAPHY.

5. C/O ADVISED DAGGERS TO BE ON THE LOOKOUT FOR
   POSSIBLE PRETEXT KNOCKS AT KDPEEK'S DOOR, THIS DUE TO THE
   *RECENTLY RELEASED REPORT ON THE<JFK ASSASSINATION,>WHICH
   INCLUDED INFORMATION ON PHOTOS TAKEN OF AN INDIVIDUAL AT THE
   RUSSIAN EMBASSY. DAGGERS AGREED THAT IF SUCH PRETEXT CALLS AT
   THE KDPEEK DOOR OCCUR, D/11 WILL, IF NECESSARY, ANSWER THE
   DOOR, APPEARING AS A HOUSEWIFE.

6. C/O WILL BE OUT OF TOWN 8 AUG THROUGH 10 AUG 93.
   ARRANGEMENTS WERE MADE TO HAVE NEXT SCHEDULED MEETING ON 16 SEP
   93, SINCE IT IS A MEXICAN HOLIDAY, AND A DAY OFF FOR BOTH C/O
   AND THE DAGGERS, AND SINCE TRAFFIC (BOTH HUMAN AND VEHICULAR)
   WILL BE DOWN CONSIDERABLY.

F. PLANS: C/O WILL MAKE APPROPRIATE INQUIRIES OF
LIAISON BRANCH REGARDING WHAT MAY HAVE CAUSED CISN HOS TO
DECIDE TO NO LONGER PROVIDE STATION WITH KDPEEK PHOTO
NEGATIVES, SINCE THE WHOLE AFFAIR MAY STEM FROM A
MISUNDERSTANDING, RATHER THAN FROM A DELIBERATE DECISION BY
SOMEONE AT CISN HOS TO CHANGE THE RULES OF THE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN STATION AND CISN HQS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

MHFNO: 93-3747541                                                                                                                 PAGE: 3

                                                                           SECRET
                                                                           SENSIND: RYBAT

G. SECURITY: LEFT EMBASSY AND WALKED TO QPV. DROVE
TO TECAMACHALCO AREA VIA EJERCITO NACIONAL TO AVENDIDA
CONSCRIPTO. REVERSED COURSE ON CONSCRIPTO, RETURNING TO THE
POLANCO AREA. MADE COVER STOP AT LIVERPOOL STORE IN POLANCO.
DROVE TO REFORMA VIA JULIO VERNE, THEN TO MACHO'S RESTAURANT,
PARKING QPV ON SIERRA NEVADA STREET. AFTER MEETING, DROVE HOME
VIA REFORMA, THEN TO PALMAS, AND ULTIMATELY TO AVENIDA DE LAS
FUENTES. NO SURVEILLANCE WAS DETECTED.

3. FILE: 201-1458174, 201-1457250. DECL OADR DRV HUM
   4-82.
   END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)