14-00000
104-10218-10097
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DATE : 9 NOV 61
TO : DIRECTOR
FROM : GUATEMALA CITY
ACTION: WH 8 (WH TEMPO COPY SLOTTED AT 1500 9 NOV)
INFO :
CA 2, CA/P.G, CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, CI/OA,
FI, BELL 5, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

NOV. 9 19332 61.

PRIORITY

IN 20212

PRITY INFO PRITY DIR ROUTINE CARA CITE GUAT 1824 CHATEMAN ACTING

REFS: A. GUAT 1322 (IN 1954)
(IN 19767)*
B. HEMI 5373 (NOT SENT CARA)

1. FURTHER INVESTIGATION SHOWS ANUPAS-1 TRIED LAND GUAT 3 NOV.
   WHEN DENIED ENTRY DUE LACK TOURIST CARD, CREATED SCENE, TRIED
   PURCHASE CARD, DELAYED PLANE DEPARTURE SEVERAL MINUTES.

2. A-1 RETURNED CUAT 7 NOV. SUITCASE SEIZED PER REF A PARA 1.

A-1 STAYED HOME OF RODRIGO ASTURIAS AMADO, 12 AVENIDA AT 9 CALLE,
NO. 12-12, ZONE 1. WAS ARRESTED THERE 0800 8 NOV. BY AGENTS OF
GUARDIA JUDICIAL. STATION INFORMED A-1 CARRYING TWO U.S. PASSPORTS,
NO. 273304 ISSUED 21 SEPT 1948 AND NO. 12434 ISSUED 28 SEPT 1953,
AND THAT A-1 TO BE EXPELLED FROM CUAT 8 NOV ON CHARGE TRANSPORTING
COMMIE PROPAGANDA.

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

DATE:
TO:
FROM:
ACTION:
INFO:

PAGE 2
IN 20212 GUAT 1824

3. CONSUL ADVISED BY IMIGRATION 9 NOV THAT A-1 WAS TAKEN DY ROAD TO MEXI CORDER & HOV AND PUT ACROSS IN VICINITY TAPACHULA.

THIS CONFIRMED TO STATION DY COLONEL HONZON OF ESTADO MAYOR.

4. ARREST AND EXPULSION GIVEN PROMINENT PRESS PLAY HERE AND AP STRINGER FILING STORY TO STATES.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *AMUPAS 1 ARRIVED MEXI 3 NOV. DECIDED CONTINUE MEXI AND NOT PRESS ATTEMPT STOP GUAT.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)