# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Valentin Sergeyevich LOGINCV (201-285412)

23 December 1927 41 Yrs old Born Moscow

Stationed in Havana from September 1960 until September 1963. Attache.
In 1961 he toured Latin America with the Soviet Soccer team as escort
and interpreter (probably with security functions as well). He arrived
August 1965 as Third Secretary. He replaced NECHIPORENKO. His Spanish
has been described as fluent with hardly any accent. His English is fair
and is studying it now.

In March 1966, EX LICOZY/5 was told he would be handled in the future by
L.

In response to L's claim that a radio had been stolen from him, a policeman
was sent to his aprtment and L. ended the conversation by recruiting the
policeman at the rate of 5000 Pesos per month. The policeman reported the
incident and the Metropolitan District Police sanctioned a D/A on. The
first and only recorded recuirement given the policeman by L was for some
Bio data on Venezuelan who spent time in USSR.

L is friendly with YATSKOV, replaced him (he claims) as Consul General, (1966)

Shortly after Arab-Israeli War L tacitly XXXX admitted he believed that
Egypt's charges of U.S. involvement on Irael's side were false. cocktail p.

Then there's the one about Miss Elizabeth Duncan Wilde. L told her that he
was ready to "go to the other side". He stated that he was afraid because
the phones in both U.S. and Soviet Embassies were bugged. He asked if she
would go to U.S. Embassy with his story. She consented and reporting stops
here.

Paul Dillon observed L and BARANOV in the area of MFXXXXXXXXXX
XXXXX a hotel where a meeting with Uriy DRUSS was to have taken place
one night ago, taking pictures with an 8mm camera. BARANOV is a Soviet tech.

L pursued AMSLOUCH/3, daughter of a Finnish agent, both in Havana and in
Moscow. His intentions XXXAR were unknown, but could have been romantically
INXXXHaan inclined rather than professional.

L is an agressive personality. With his fellow workers he is dictatorial
and disdainful. He has been known to md return to the Embassy thoroughly
gassed, yelling and shouting and resulting in an altercation with the guard
on duty. Other times he won't finish one drink. He is chauvinistic XX to his
own race and deprecatory to other nationalities. A sneering atitude, boisterous
and arrogant at times. He can be gentle at othertimes, has frequently labeled
intelligent, HKEXXXNX He is definitely crafty, although not particulary subtle.
works fast, doesn't appear to try hard at cloaking his true intentions, either
in conversation with others or in a recruitment atterpt. He is tough as nails.
His build is athletic, his appearance is ruggedly handsome. He appears
confident, self-assured in relations with non-Soviets.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

The file is very difficult to follow. Items appear XXXXXXX no further mention.
AYOUT?

Salient feature of file is that LOGINOV was never the object of XX consistent concentrated attention by anyone. There is virtually no reporting on the LICOZY/5--LOGINOV relationship. What there is implies that L/S is uncooperative and nearly refuses to work with L.

SUMMARY

SUSCEPTIBILITY: Nothing in the conventional sense. If he is trying to tell us anything he is obviously trying to get our attention via a CI ploy with the intention of bringing us to him. He moves with confidence and near-impunity--certainly not like one who might be in trouble.

PROFESSIONALISM: Not smooth and subtle nor particularly secure. But crafty, fast on his feet, makes fast decisions and then acts on them. Aggressive and ubiquitous. Socially active. Woman-chaser.

PERSONALITY: See above.

Should be leaving before another year and one-half. Has been there for three and one-half years.

See other similar cases.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)