2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA
RECORD NUMBER: 104-10170-10051
RECORD SERIES: JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 80T01357A

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE
TO: CHIEF, TASK FORCE W
TITLE: AMSPELL PROGRESS REPORT FOR SEPTEMBER 1962
DATE: 10/09/62
PAGES: 73
SUBJECTS: AMSPELL
PROGRESS REPORT

Date: 02/12/98
Page: 1

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/07/98
OPENING CRITERIA: JFK64-25:F27 1998.02.07.11:28:56:590031: ATTACHMENTS INCLUDED
COMMENTS:

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T

TO: Chief, Task Force W

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE Operational/GYROSE/KUWOLF

SUBJECT: AMSPELL Progress Report for September 1962

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: Action: For your information

Ref :

A. UFGA-5728, dated 21 September 1962

B. UFGA-5897, dated 25 September 1962

C. UFGA-6065, dated 8 October 1962

D. CARA-7019, dated 25 September 1962

E. CARA-6994, dated 15 September 1962

F. WAVE-8311, dated 7 September 1962

G. WAVE-8356, dated 8 September 1962

1. The September Progress Report for AMSPELL, including AMHINT and AMBARB activities, is transmitted herewith:

## A. AMSPELL

### 1) General:

a. On 21 September 1962, AMHINT-[^53] exfiltrated PBRUMEN in a refugee vessel and made his preliminary operational report on release from CAC on 22 September (Reference B). Subject was accompanied by the National Coordinator for Agricultural Affairs (actually an organizer for guerrilla warfare and resistance groups throughout the Island) Jose Angel LOZANO y Lozano. Briefly, AMHINT[^53] and LOZANO rendered an optimistic operational report on

Distribution: 3 - C/TFW, w/att, u/s/c

Attachments: Under Separate Cover

Continued

S-E-C-R-E-T

9 October 1962

OCT 15/1962

UFGA-6140

19-120-19/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

S-E-C-R-E-T UFGA-6140

AMSPELL organization in PBRUMEN, including the situation in the underground, compartmentation, organization, communications control and intelligence structure. Subjects are undergoing intelligence debriefing on a continuing basis.

b. While AMHINT[^53] was arranging his exfiltration and ANSPELL Psywar operations in PBRUMEN and the hemisphere were continued on their normal course, the AMHINTs were still smarting from the ODYOKE confiscation of their vessel, the JUANIN-I, as a consequence of the 24 August attack on Havana. AMHINT[^2] went to Caracas on 7 September for a meeting with President BETANCOURT (or his official representative) and a press conference where he released an ANSPELL statement, which in effect, served a notice on PBRUMEN and the USSR that any Communist shipping encountered in PBRUMEN territorial waters will be attacked on sight. (Reference F and G)

c. Behind the scenes, however, AMHINT[^2] was reportedly (Reference D and E) negotiating with Venezuelan Naval Officials for surfacecraft and possibly a base from which to operate. What success he achieved in this quest, or to what extent President BETANCOURT is prepared to help AMSPELL, is still an unknown quantity. Judging from their attempts to raise funds in other spheres, allegedly for the purchase of a replacement vessel, they were not very successful in Caracas. (A PU Case Officer handling the CEDAR team has reported that one of the members complained of forfeiting a 20-percent "kick-back" in his AMSPELL salary. (For a breakdown of AMSPELL salary see Attachment B.)

d. AMHINT[^2] returned from Caracas and as to be expected, gave no indication of the "secret negotiations" or their outcome. On 27 September, along with AMHINT-5, he requested a meeting with the JMWAVE officer for discussion of the AMBARB funding disagreement and the general AUSPELL situation (See Attachment C). Perhaps this session gave JMWAVE a bit more insight as to AMSPELL plans and intentions, but no real solution for the AMBARBS resulted. In short, AMSPELL policy is to mold PBPRIME public opinion and bring pressure to bear on ODYOKE and GPIDEAL for action in the PBRUMEN situation within the next four months.

e. To implement such a policy, AMSPELL has exploited the impact of their 24 August attack on PBPRIME news media, as well as their Caracas Declaration. Also, they have published a weekly news letter in English entitled "The Cuban Report" (Reference C) and about 1,000 copies are mailed out to ODYOKE officials and congressmen. Initiated in late August, the main theme of this publication has been the Soviet/Bloc materiel buildup in PBRUMEN. (See Attachment A)

2) Total AMSPELL Support for September 1962: $50,960.40

a. AMBARB Section:

Salaries $12,240.00

Operations 7,700.00

Processing 1,020.40 $20,960.40

b. AMHINT Section: Support $ 5,000.00

c. AMSPELL General:

Salaries 9,000.00

Overhead 2,100.00

Operations 13,900.00 $25,000.00


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

3) Intelligence Production:

UFG-1572 - "Status of Equipment at the Nico Lopez Refinery & UK, Czech, and Soviet Assitance in its maintenance; Shipment of Gold Bullion from the Refinery to the USSR."

UFG-1585 - (As above)

UFG-1607 - (As above)

UFG-1622 - (As above)

UFG-1628 - (As above)

4) Development and Plans:

All planning phases of AMSPELL activities supported by JMWAVE at the present time are subject to the results of meetings with AMSPELL concerning increased control, and, the decisions of JMWAVE to continue a support relationship if an acceptable degree of KUBARK control can be established.

B. AMHINTS:

1) General:

a. As reported in Reference B, the most important AMHINT development during September was the exfiltration of AMHINT[^53:0] This was also significant for JMWAVE, since all negotiations with AMSPELL would be transferred from AMHINT[^2] to 01 AMHINT[^53:0] Although AMHINT[^53] will undoubtedly be fully briefed and re-Indoctrinated by AMHINT leaders concerning AMSPELL present status and operational relationship with JMWAVE, AMHINT[^53] is a mature and astute leader and can be expected to appreciate the broad scope of JMWAVE-AMSPELL operations.

b. In the Psywar field, the AMHINTS in PBRUMEN continue to produce "Trinchera" on a hand-operated mimeograph machine in Havana and distribute about 10,000 copies monthly. They are also committed to the collection and transmission of reports and photographs on the Soviet buildup, at least until the DAMSON intelligence operations are begun. This activity is in direct support of the AMSPELL policy cited in Paragraph A.1)e above. The AMSPELL propaganda section is divided into four departments to carry out this program: PBRUMEN, Latin American, PBRUMEN Exile Community and PBPRIME.

c. Diplomatic pouches intercepted for JMWAVE by AMBLEAK-1 have revealed much of AMSPELL operational planning not heretofore reported. In a series of letters written by the AMSPELL national coordinators in exile to their opposite numbers in PBRUMEN on 20 September, it was indicated that:

i. Negotiations by AMHINT[^2] in Caracas, Costa Rica and Panama are practically completed for an AMSPELL operations base. (Letter from Bernabe PENE to AMHINT-40)

ii. AMSPELL has levied intelligence requirements on AMHINTS in PBRUMEN for sending out information on PBRUMEN ports that can be attacked from the sea. (Intelligence Plans Numbers 5, 6 and 7, in a letter from AMHINT-39 to "Jesus", National Coordinator for Intelligence.)

iii. In the interim, reports on Mariel, Cabanas, Bahia Honda, La Habana, Matanzas and Cardenas are requested on a continuing basis.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

UFGA-6140

d. Subsequently, in an incoming pouch and probably crossing with the foregoing communications, a series of letters from the National Coordinators in PBRUNEN reported a severe blow to AMSPELL clandestine organization. Jore MEDINA Bringier ("Mongo"), National Coordinator for Military Reception and Supply, reported that AMHINT(PBRUMEN National Coordinator) had been missing. (Later reported as arrested and being held at G-2 Headquarters on Ave 5 in Miramar.) Also, "Juan" and "Miguel" were arrested in Havana. Several others were missing. MEDINA went on to describe security measures implemented and report on a re-organization of the National Coordinator Committee. He closed with a plea for a small shipment of small arms for defensive use, clothing and medicine, and a full-scale propaganda effort if AMHINT-40 should be sentenced to summary execution.

e. In this same pouch, the National Coordinator for Propaganda, Nicolas PEREZ Diez-Arguelles ("Jose Alfredo") rendered a detailed report on Agit/Prop assets in PBRUNEN. The printing and distribution of "Trinchera" has been moved up to every fortnight, and efforts to get it printed on a commercial printing press in Havana appear to be successful. Regular couriers are being trained for delivery of the newspaper to the provinces. PEREZ also reported their progress in mounting two clandestine radio trans-mitters for Agit/Prop purposes, one in Las Villas and one in Havana. These are powered by 110 volt generators usually found on a small farm. It is projected to transmit a regular propram, probably entitled "Tele-periodico Trinchera". The report does not explain what counter measures will be taken to prevent GOC detection. Finally, PEREZ describes an Agit/Prop program already in progress: Firss a plan for printing and marking walls with their organization abbreviation, carried out in one operation, synchronizing municipal and borough teams for the job. As a follow-up phase, large cloth banners bearing the same letters will be raised or tended in congested areas and photographs taken for publication in "Trinchera". Also, with the aid of their Intelligence Section, AMIINTs have penetrated two radio stations in Havana and are identifying all Sov/Bloc personnel employed there, their security practices, addresses and routes for commuting.

2) Total AMHINT Support for September 1962: $5,000.00

(Included in AMSPELL General section of this report)

3) Intelligence Production:

(Reported in AMSPELL General Section.)

4) Development & Plans:

(See this section under AMSPELL General of this report)

C. AMBARB

During the reporting period no changes occurred in AMBARB personnel assignments. With the exfiltration of AMHINT-53 from PBRUMEN it is hoped that it will be possible to negotiate with AMBARB the still unsettled question of AMBARB funding. We will report further to Headquarters as soon as an agreement is reached with AMBARB on funding of AMBARB representatives in the field by local KUBARK Stations. For the present it can only be said that the AMBARB leaders are strenuously resisting any effort by JMWAVE to increase to more than eight the number of their people whom they will permit KUBARK to furd.directly rather than through AMBARB Headquarters in Miami.

The inspection tour of AMBARB-16 to delegations in Latin America resulted in the general. report forwarded for your information as Attachment D: in reading this report, it is useful for reference purposes to examin Attachment E a report which the AMBARB office has prepared on its general progress since inception


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-6140

of the AMBARD program. As Attachment F we forward a special
report prepared by AMBARB-16 on AMBARB mailing operations cap-
abilities.

Individual reports on the activities of AMBARB overseas
delegations are forwarded in the following Attachments, which
Headquarters may wish to bring to the attention of KUBARK Area
Divisions or Stations as it deems best:

G. Bolivia
H. Brazil
I. Costa Rica
J. Chile
K. Colombia
L. Ecuador
M. Mexico
N. Panama
O. Peru
P. Uruguay
Q. Venezuela

The AMBARD salary schedule for September is forwarded
as Attachuent R.

END OF DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

SALARY - 1-30 September, 1962

DEPENDANTS ALLOWANCES:

Dependants - Alberto Muller (La Isla de Pinos) US$ 200.00

" - Miguel Lasa (CT Catrusion) 200.00

" - Rodolfo Vidal (Savana Ups.) 200.00

" - Jorge de Armas (No in Isla de Finos) 225.00

US$ 825.00

DRE EXECUTIVE AND ADMINISTRATIVE:

Luis Fernandez Rocha Sec. General US$ 275.00

Jose M. Lasa Sec. Propaganda 275.00

Fernando Garcia Chacon Sec. Actas 250.00

Jose A. Gonzalez Lanuza Sec. Relaciones Interiores 325.00

Elio Mas Hernandez Sec. Planificacion 275.00

General Fatjo Sec. Finnanzas 275.00

Raquel Lavilla (Cecilia) Ast. Inteligecia y visas 180.00

Ronnie Ramos Ast. Propaganda 200.00

Zoila Diaz Ast. Propaganda 150.00

Teresa Valdos Hurtado Ast. Archivo y Propaganda 150.00

Elvira Weiss Ast. Rel. Internas 150.00

Mercedes Ramirez Telephone 150.00

Luisita Esquiroz Ast. Rel. Internas 110.00

Lula Santos Ast. Propaganda 100,00

US$2865.00

SUBSISTENCE ALLOWANCES FUTURS CPS:

Ana Diaz Silveira Ast. Finanzas US$ 200.00

Maria V. de los Reyes Ast. Archivo y Prop. 120.00

Isabel Alonso Ast. Informacion 170.00

Carlos Bravo Ast. Propaganda 80.00

Angelica Martinez ist. Finanzas y visas waiver 100.00

Luis Gutierrez' Telegrafist 150.00

Carlos A. Huller Ast. Propaganda 125.00

US$ 945.00


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

- 2 -

## MILITAR INFILTRATION OPS TRAINING:

Bernabe Pena Militar Cord OPS US$ 275.00
Gilberto Aleman Trainee # 1 150.00
Francisco Calvet Trainee # 2 175.00
Carlos DiQuesne Trainee # 3 125.00
J. M. Fiol Trainee # 4 325.00
Angel A. Fontanils Trainee # 5 225.00
Francisco Garcia Trainee # 6 120.00
Julio Jo Trainee # 7 120.00
Carlos Obregon Trainee # 8 (Tele) 170.00
Lesmes Ruiz Trainee # 9 200.00
Arnaldo Santa Cruz Trainee # 10 150.00
Ernesto Fernandez Trainee # 11 200.00
Jon Koch Trainee # 12 250.00
Julian Gomez Maritime Militar 100.00
Lazaro Fariñas Trainee # 13 100.00
Enrine Torres Maritime Militar 100.00
Juan M. Salvat Sec. Asuntos Militares 375.00
Ignacio Arjona Trainee # 14 100.00
Albor Ruiz Resp. Asuntos Navales 200.00
Francisco Blanco Trainee # 15 200.00
Luis Camps Trainee # 16 (Naval) 150.00
Julio Hernandez Rojo In Cuba (his family) 200.00
Raul de Cespedes Ast. Militar 125.00
Maria Odoardo Ast. Militar 130.00
Isidro Borja Ast. Sec. Aasuntos Militares 100.00

US$ 4365.00

Dependats Allowances US$ 825.00
DRE Office and Executive 2865.00
Subistence Allowance 945.00
Militar Inf. Ops. Training 4365.00

US$ 9000.00

Responsable de Finanzas DRE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas on marcha

MIAMI 50 AUGUST 1982

INTERNATIONAL SECTION PAYROLL CONT!

MAIN OFFICE

1) Eduardo Mñiz Melo --------Coordinator-------$275.00-- for Aug 62
2) Vario Pita Garcis -----ab-cooruinator----$325.00-
3) Evello Ley Fernance --------Contacts & Finance---$250.00----
4) Aida Rodriuez menicz ----Secretary & Typist-$200.00----
5) Margarita Esquiroz Martinez-----Translator---$170.0०----

RADIO CENTRAL & SOUTH AMERICA

6) re.ro Ynterian Garcia --------Sab-coordinator$275.00----
7) Clara Alvarez řerez -Asst Secretary $120.00--

PHOTOGRAPHY DEPARTMENT

2) Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo---Sub-Coordinator---$300.00- for Aug 62
9) Jouquin Martinez de rinillos----Photo Tech---$250.00
10) Antonio Abelia Caluerin --Photographer $200.0----

ARGENTINA

11) Rogello lielu Vital --------aiting Visa $350.00----
12) Alejandro rortes Cortada-aiting for visa----$300.00----

BOLIVIA

13) Amadeo Qoesn ques Roupl nes Sept 1961 $200.00
14) Bite Bento Gonzalez Jecember 11 $200.00
15) Jose Adolfo Earro Garcia-aiting to be approved-$200.00---

BRAZIL

16) Raul Gonzalez Simon -October 1951 # $150.
    I) Carlos. Valdesuso Rodriquez-January 1952---$200.00-
18) Jose Vega Rivera --October 19el- $200.00
19) Guillermo Asper Valdes --December 161 $200.CO
20) Pedro Castello -May 1962 $200.00
21) Benito Diaz Faret -June 1962 $200.00
22) Jorge Guerra Guerra ---December 1:61- $350.0O----
23) Carlos Bedias Vazquez --aiting to be approved-$250.CC----

CHILE

2) Telson arare vicceria --October 1522 $230.00
25) Rafael Espinosa zarate----May 1962 $250.00
    26)tolis Cesa Viilenino ---June 1962 $395.00-
27) Luis Figueras Valdes ---November 1961 $200.00

H RYUFGA 6140

19-124-26/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echevertia con tus ideas en marcha

CONTINATIO

COSTA RICA

31) Evello Companioni Esteva --------October 1961 --------$200.00
172) Jore Hermida Arenas --------October 1961 --------$200.00
30) Julian Osante Fernandez --------July 1962 --------$250.00
    6/31) Armando del rozo --------October 1961--------$225.00

COLOMBIA

32) Joso A. Guerra Rodriguez--------January 1962--------$275.00
33) Andres de la Rosa--------January 1962--------$200.00
34) Selson Federico Better potres---------loy 1962--------$200.00
35) Rolando Castaño --------January 1962

ECIDOR

36) Rafael orlando Souto --------November 196 --------$250.00
37) Francisco maded Secai11--------January 1962--------$200.00

HOTOURAS

38) Fernando Arco Hernandez --------Waiting to be approved--------$225.00
39) Eduardo Tomas Torres Ramos--------Waiting to be approved--------$225.00

MEXICO

40) Ansel Cazales rermunuez --------September 1962--------$200.00
41) Jore porticos Arlegui --------November 1961 --------$300.00
42) Martin Horia Arrectea --------Waiting for visa --------$200.00
43) Carlos Garcia Soler --------Waiting for visa --------$250.00

PAAA

44) Jorge Herdi utia Ramirez--------October 1961 --------$200.00
45) Jorge Marben Garcia --------May 1961 --------$275.00

PERU

-46) Rolando Fernandes Correcera --------October 1961--------$300.00
47) Lestor Campaneria angel --------October 1961 --------$250.00
48) Sixto Rubiales Ros --------Waiting for visa--------$200.00
49) Ricardo Rubiales Ros--------Waiting for visa--------$200.00

REPUBLICA DODICANA

50) Pablo acmaa --------May 1962 --------$250.00
51) Delio Gonzalez --------waiting for visa --------$250.00

URUSJAY

52) Mario Garcia Gonzalez --------July 1962--------$250.00
53) Armando Frias Mesa --------July 1962--------$250.00
54) Rene Morato Fontera --------July 1962--------$225.00


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

CONTIMATION

VENEZUELA

55) Rafael Trenols Fresneda --------September 1961 --------275.00--
    voaquin Perez odriics 10
57) Jose Gonzalez Llorente --------November 1961--------200.00---
58) Lorenzo Martin Rodriguez --------November 1961--------200.00---
59) Luis Boza Domirque: --------June 1961 --------200.00---
60) Ricardo Rodriguez Jimenez--------May 1961 --------200.00---
61) Ramon Calere Rivero --------May 1962 --------200.00---
62) Roberto Prego Novo --------May 1961 --------200.00---

$12,240.00

TOTAL ACOUNT INTERNATIONAL PAYROLL, RECEIVED FIVE DAYS LATE

ON SEPTEMBER 1962.....


SATOR

JR.
INTENSOKAL FINANCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# F.

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

josé antonio echeverría con tus ideas en marcha

## REPORT

During the recent trip I made through the delegations in Latin America, the results of the sending of propaganda by mail to Cuba were reported to me. For the better understanding of the results renounced, we will now explain them within each delegation visited.

### Venezuela

The delegation at Venezuela sent some montages of the propaganda we sent them to be mailed to Cuba. They used the lists of addresses given by Roger.

Venezuela has continued this system using the propaganda edited by the DRE so the propaganda prepared in Venezuela. In average of 1,700 letters was sent during May, June, and July, mailing them from Caracas one month, from Maracaibo to another month, and from Caracaisimeto another. All security means were studied (that they be sent by different persons with different handwriting, that no color, and not commemorative, stamps be used, ordinary envelopes, and mailed in different post offices, etc.)

### Brazil

The delegation at Brazil also sent the propaganda given by Roger, but no reply was obtained from any person. He detailed the security means and the conditions for the sending of the propaganda to Cuba. The delegation remarked on the risk run with the mail and the violations to which it is subject in Brazil (they explained that the salaries of post office employees are so low that they take off the stamps from the letters when they have not been marked, to sell them, and then they destroy the letter.)

They sent 1,500 letters during May, June, and July.

### Uruguay

We did not send the propaganda to Uruguay because then we had no delegation there.

### Chile

The delegation at Chile sent the third propaganda live by Roger, which was the propaganda on the members of the 26th of July that are imprisoned or have been executed. They sent 1,200 letters.

![image of ALI E UFEA 6140]

![image of 19-124-30/3]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

josé antonio echeverría con tus ideas en marcha

NOTE:- The list of adresses dau to be previously checked up, because tacio acre persons in 15. nas are actually sorin, in the under- rond, and the sending of props addressed to them could, consequently, place them under rretiner.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

3. While AMINT- is now POPRIME, he will determine A'SIELL policy as approved by the A'SPELL. Executive Committee. However, the activities of the last four months were planned and controlled by M.INT- and assisting him were AMINT- and Bernabe PENA, who were present at this meeting. After the ARARS discussion, the meeting turned into a long discussion of the International Communist situation, ODYOKY, AIDARK and AMSPELL policies as related to this situation. Some of the noteworthy items revealed:

a. AMSPELL had the 24 August Havana attack plan for six months, but had shelved it for the "right time" and a considered decision not to embark upon a course independent of KURARK approval. The Sov/Ulee buildup changed that decision.

b. AMSPELL analyzes the situation as hopeless for the PBRUMEN revolutionary movements after four months because:

1- The Soviets will be firmly established and ODYOKE policy as defined by GPIDEAL tends toward and will probably result in a hemisphere no eptance of PBRUMEN as a satellite.

2- After four months, the degree of police controls, repression and persecution will make any internal action in civic resistance and guerrilla warfare virtually impossible.

c. AMSPELL feels that ODYOKE policy on PBI:MEN cannot be influenced by the rising tide of public opinion and congressional action, partly because UPIDEAL is surrounded by a group of advisors who are "one step from being parlor pinks or worse". The list began with Chester BOWLES.

d. This situation is not an original AMSPELL observation. During his European travel in August, AMINT- went to the Vatican for a meeting (claimed to be high level) which had been arranged some time ago. His impression of thinking in the Vatican re World Communist advance, was that ODYOKE or POPRIME was no longer calculated as an effective power for defending the world against total takeover. That the Catholic Church was beginning the long process of preparing their forces for a world dominated by Communism.

4. As a result of their observations and analysis, AMSPELL has assumed a "now or never" attitude and policy. They feel they must resort to tactics that mold PBRIME public opinion and bring pressure to bear on ODYOKE and GPIDEAL for action in the PBRUMEN situation. Latin America must also be kept aware and urged to support an action. They would hope that such an AMSPELL policy and resultant activity would not be interpreted as opposition or hostility to KURARK or ODYOKE, and that their KURARK relationship would survive the critical months before then. They recognize that KURARK is bound by policy and burdened by bureaucracy, and feel that the actions although independent and uncontrolled - of AMSPELL might contribute to the formation of action policy in PBRUMEN, despite consternation in ZRA'TAL.

HRN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

A. .1 IT-2, 3 N Peruse . A

23 September 1962 1600-1830 ba

Tip-Top Restaurant, Cora Gall.

Harold R. NOHMAYR

1.  The meeting with AM:11VT-[^2] was to clarify the continuing alsunder standing and disagreement over AMBARB funding. The original ABAR policy meeting with AN NT[^2] was reviewed, and AMHINT[^2]olated out that it was not agreed that NAIKolates on wou'd pay all AMLARBS, h t only the cuverts. Without going over the fire evolution of the AWARD project fanding, 11 was pointed up to Ant that the project was a two-way arrangement, of great mutual conventence, akt we must find a functional "alddle-ground" an which to operate, although it may not be entirely satisfactory to either wi the parties. Ai[^2]greed, an the following ground rules were arrived at as a workable fumming plan

a.  AMBAIS assigned as overt ANSPELL representatives will be fuated by AMSPELL from Miast on all future assignments. Those now being funded by station will remain s atus quo.

b.  Covert AMHARRS for station contact will be assigned by indiv processing, both parties agreed, and station will fund and control.

c.  Re the four pending onses where stations have request & funding as soon as possible - a meeting is to be held where each case will be considered individually and decided upon.

2.  While this arrangement is not entirely acceptable, it is believed that upon the return of All NT-53 to the operational control, a batter arrangement can be made.

[^2]: image of the number 2 inside of a box


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# I.

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

REPORT

SUBJECT. Eduardo Aufiz' trip to Latin America.

This report is aimed on narrating briefly the results of Mr. Eduardo Auiz's recent trip to several countries of Latin America carried through for the purpose of visiting the D.R.E. Delegations.

In order to make easier the understanding of its points, we will outline the impressions gathered throughout the different countries according to the order in which they were visited, and dividing them into the following aspects.

A.- Actual situation of the Delegation

B.-Deficiencies

C.- Future Possibilities.

VENEZUELA

A.- Actual situation of the Delegation.

Undoubtedly, the D.R.E. Delegation at Venezuela is at present the best delegation the D.R.E. has in Latin America

There are many reasons for which this Delegation has reached to occupy the first place in the Latin American Plan of the J. Summing them up, they are the following:

1.- It is identified with the nation's problems and national aims.

2.- Team-work, coordination and unity in the accomplishment of labor

3.- A high sense of duty and a skillful plan of labor intelligently organized.

Consequently, the D.R.E. Delegation at Venezuela has succeeded in attaining a high prestige for the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil among the most representative elements and institutions of the Venezuelan people agreeing, their ideals with ours. The central management of the D.R.E. Delegation at Venezuela is located in Caracas. It is a small office situated at a central city point.

Att. D a UFGA GIVE

19-124-2613


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonia echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

--6--

It has two sub-deleations, me in muracalbo, a northern city of Venezuela, mier the airection of Roberto Fres, Baron Calera, and Ricardo auriuez, and the other one in bar.anquisimeto.

At the central office of the ۰۸۰۰۰ jelegation in Venezuela ander the direction of naisel frcaols, General Delegate of the D.2.3. In Venezuela Jose Miquel concales lorente, Lorenzo Mersin, Joaquin Ferez, and its coca are actual worl In Caracas, e .. trasmits a dally radio broadcastanica lasts for 30 minutes. Also in Caracaito the.....transits a radio broadcast #alca nolas rent popularity. (it is intrestin to oint out as a proof for the aurvants eus errects of this cronicast that a role of action men of the co drist party tries to burn with Molotov coas the radio station waic.. transit the broaucast)..

The labor accomplished by the D,R... in the student field is of vital importance. At present the elegation ins be possibility of moving enou Forces in a definitive moment to counterac Commist action inside the Oniversity which is totally controlies by Communists.

..e can joint out as ainly fasortant the so-called "personality building courses" mich were created by the tenders the 2..3. ani unico are carried throu today due to intimate copperation,amon; the D.R.D., the goverment, me Cristian Social Party aci ecclesiastical alerareny. Each of these courses lust for approximately one week and les for approximately me ween and are generally iven a farm. The attendants are almost always more than 35 and are suite auring one week to strong military discipline and intensivenacetrination waica lasts antil r.int erains the activities of the day wit a General Assembly in waich the results attained during the laj are iscussed. I had the opportunity to assist personally at one or these courses walca das being iven by aicardo Andries, Lo of the ... vele ation at aracaibo, in a fare iven by the Vene- amelan government or sucrose. Je to the present 1,300 Vene- zuelan Students have received caese courses and, certainly, their effects have influenced reatly in the consolidation of the democratic system in Venezuela.

we could not tell of the sy other activities of the Deleration but would result nenting. C. Tast is way we aave only painted out the ost important.

E.- Deficiencies

Generally, we could assert that the balance maintained by the D... Dele ution at Venezuela on tais aspect cannot be more positive. Excepting the lo ical and casal deficiencies fr the lator fue _reatly to the limitations, the D... Jeleation at Tenezuela des zot mave a... deficiencies ortance. On the other hand, τ.ιε Delevation at Venezuela presented to made by the rest of the vele ations, It is that the Delegation has been an pressures motivated by the large perious of time it has gone througa

a complaint wale as also swill explain further ca. several occasions cier emotional


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

with no visits by anyone of the Central Office of Intentional
Rel t'ons. In other words, the D.R.E. deleg tion at Venezuela
asked through all its members more frecuent visits in order to avoid
a feeling of forlorness during our common struggle.

## C.- Future possibilities

The D.R.E. has a huge future possibilities in Veneruel. The pres-
tige it actually has with the people and inside covernment cir-
cles opens new fields for the near future in all the aspects. He
will synthesize these possibilities in the following points.

1.- More "person-lity-building coursses" in order to double the
number of Venezuelan students receiving them.

2.- Organization of brigades to encounter Communists and move them
out from the Central University of Caracas in the elections
next year.

3.- Increase in the propaganda

4.- Spreading of activity throughout all the States of the country.

![Signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

BAZTL.-

... Actual situation of the station.

For the better anderstemain of the situation of the DHS in Brazil, wo will first consider the situation of the Jo-leation at illo de Janeiro alle tuer the labor of the Dele ation it Sao Paolo.

As well as the Deletion in Carues, the Delegation in alo de Janeiro has succeessa in carryla tarosh a labor walca is worthy of all praise.

In spite of the laiosyncrasy of the Brazilian people and the seriousness of the interior sitiation of the nation, we believe that the belieation at trazii follows the Deleaton at venezola in best fanetionie. we could point out as main reasons for tals success the following.

1.- The members of the Delegation are fully identified wita tas reality and problems of the crazlitan noclon ৪ all the members of the Dele atin se o mese.

2...3 well as in Venesuela there is"team work" and anity in the accomplishment of labor.

naoubtedly, the labor at brazil is the hardest to be carried taroan, followed Caile. talosyncrasy of the Brazilian people, which are in eneral somermat 1, norant about most serious prolems the world is actually encountering, the powerfil forces of extremelect, the desperate ecomoale situa-tion proiect of the compreso daica nas more than once almost craan the nation to civil war, are the reasons or cay times the Caban sroblem s been placed in second level, Cenerally Living it little imortence even inside democratic scctors.

For approximately one year, the Dele ation at Rio de Janeiro nas been strugi aainst 5:13 real difficult situation, and the results octained cannot be better.

1.- The press walca for long time and neli ar. Indifferent attitude towards the Cuban problem - cost of the times it even refuses to suclian any comiques of news given by the Dis nas cffered us its support the first time and the name of the Dhe appears frequently in its es (at my arrival at lo de Janeiro they interviewed ce).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

LIL

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

Jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

2.- The student organization

In the student area, the National Union of Students (UNE) has already experienced the labor the accomplices. At the national assembly recently held, a resolution was issued that the nuclei were not permitted to participate. The Brazilian student has clearly displayed when several State Student trip recently attaining a resolution voted by this State Union and stressed the support our movement has sustained at by the government.

7

5,000 students soliciting the intervention in Cuba after the Russian troops which have been recently landed in the Island.

3.- The organization also drafted three pamphlets in Portuguese which have had a good acceptance among the people. These are: "For a Latin American Revolution", (fundamental objective of our revolution) "Calma Socialista" (since January is helping with political Cuba). Carlos Lacerda. Good relations with Federal trips to Belo Horizonte, have been made. Contacts have been established.

B.- Deficiencies

In general terms, the deficiencies of the sole action are:

*   The legal situation is uncertain.
*   The lack of resources.

The legal situation is rather difficult due to the fact that Joao Goulart's Pro-Communist government has obstructed them greatly in their stay in Brazil. Nevertheless, the collision of this problem is expected...as well as in the political protest of the "student" to the government. It is submitted because of the visit they undoubtedly encouraged. The measures are in reality and lifted us in their oral spirit.

The people also contribute with the lack of propaganda. For sadness they solicitude funds in order to reprint it in Portuguese the most important propaganda to the Cuban exiles.

C.- Future possibilities

It is important to point out that the Cuban Embassy at Brasil formally protest to the Brazilian government because of the presence of several people in the country; also other Communist Brazilian leaders cheap the protest. However, net activities for the future are planned. They are:

1.- Continue editing pamphlets of guidance for the people


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

-3-

on the Cuban problem.

2.- Send two Delentes to Recife for the next visit of President rennedy to cruzil.

3.- kerform several trips thros noat the country in order to estratlian croups of supporters in the alfferent places of the nation.

4. Attaining of a radio broadcast.

6.- Intensify the labor with the democratic student groups In order to entitate the work to restore the ... to our democratic couse.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

ajose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marche

The case of the site Deletion at Gas real walen is composed by Rail Gonzalez mon antonio de esa be considered ss an exceitional case Instae the Latin American plan. In Sao raolo, I nad the opportunity to all dee, conversations aita Gel conzalez Shaon, and we rescued at the following conclusions.

1.- Ia one whole year the da peleation at Sao Paolo HAS NOT BSO ALE TO ACCOTES, nothing has been published by the afte De-
lestion ans appeared insid ation, not one of the comalsustraced by the Section or International helations and be cartei taroun. summing up the semaine words of the RE Delegate at Sa Faolo, naul contales slaan, to other sit the conversations held at my arrival at Siami with antonis es, another member of the pelegation at a ruolo, se reached at the following conclusion.

2.- Jurin: one year no effective labor nas been accomplished la the city of sao rule in the caban groelen.

b.- Time nos been wasted uselessly to obtain only us a result a somain fallare.

The motives for tals fullure can be outlined as follows.

1.- The Die Delegates in sa faolo nave been submitted to ne arbitrary alrection of r. Vlaamir Lyiosaenky, director or the S.4.1. (survice of Inter American Stiles) was daring the whole your soulbite the sole ates to work in the name of the Das, sabaltting the tos labor system wnica as notain to us with the Cuban grocles. It would be wise to point at that for the Chuance Drs Conference held at ranta del ate, secial fonis ad been deuicated to the Cuban case. Lylosken., ifd absolutely notain about this, remaining taas na the "aund-ling" of such 3.

2.- The Did Dele sites did not take in the the decision of working independently in order to accomplisa gometning useral, and consemently, continuea sabe entirely ilscreiltea or anism waien is the ....

cure Lossibilities.

Bota Mr. Raul Gotalez simon and Ir. antonio Veda are nillito continuerit the S... or saca end, Mr. Gonzalez Simon and ar. antonis vea are rearing numerous aa jetalled reports mich will openly disclose the attitate taken by. oladimir Lyshe, for ssc ce cas asei the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO. ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

Fonds destined to the Cuban case, als repeated boycott to every- thing wnien molus the name of the, and the little labor accomplished tarou mout hout the your. In tae report waich is being made by Mr. haul Gonzalez almon, a plan of labor to be carried taroun in Sao Paolo will be presented. The De well engage to accomplish in E montas a superior labor them that accomplished by the 3.3.1. during one wale year on the Caban problem.good contacts and a well traced slan are arranged for such end. The plan together with the reports will be presented as soon as reach us.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# D.R.E.

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha
DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

URUGU Y

A.- Actual sitution of the Deleration

Though the Delerates in Uruguay, Mario Garcia and Armando Frias, have been in Montevideo for scarcely one and a half month, they are beginning to carry through a very positive labor which promises to bear splendid fruits. le must have in mind that anti-Castrist propaganda has widely circulated throughout Urusuay. Up to the present a great number of public acts have been held and it results difficult to move public opinion on the Cuban problem, since it is somewhat exhausted. Nevertheless, the plans thich have been worked out will strerthen public opinion on this aspect. During my stay at Uruguay, the voting campaign for the elections chich will be held on next November as being carried through. Thus it was rather difficult to tern the attention of public orinion towards the Cuban problem. However, in order to reinitiate the labor, the Deleration has worked out a plon which will last for one month and end with a great public act. While I was there, 100,000 leaves of propaganda exhorting the people to express their protests for the presence of Russian troops in Cuba were distributed throughout the city. Also a manifestation which took place the 8th of September in front of the Cuban Embassy was organized. The Dele ration will shortly begin to edit a news bulletin which will be sent to the Press, Radio, TV, to political, civic, and religious leaders. Also a trip throughout the different cities of the country in order to strengthen the contacts we already had there is being planned.

In the student field, the Delegation is striving to work to achieve unity in the groups of opposition to the U (Federation of University Students of Uruguay) by creating a common front and thus move out the Communists 'hich control fully the leading nosition of the FEUU.,

B.- Desiciencies

The deficiencies of the Delegation et Uruguay can be considered es little mortent due to the fact that it has been functioning for only few weeks and this does not permit to see things clerly and judge then how they really are. In soner 1, the Delegation is at present in a process of consolidation and self-securing, for which re son its deficiencies cannot be fully observed.

C.- Future possibilities

The DR Delegation t Uruguay has huge possibilities which we believe will be determined during the next fe days. In addition to the news bulletin and the trip through the different cities of the country, a one-hour redio broadcast and new public ects are being planned. Besides


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

the Deleration is working together with a group of students that are interested in creting the DREU (Directorio Revolucionario Estudian-til of Uruguay).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antanio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

1.- Actual situation of the Delegation

The 23 Delegation at Chile - which is composed by Nelson Navarro, Rafael Ceinmora, and Kolts Nora- is now accomplishing a rather hard labor. However, it is beginning to bear fruits. As we had stated before, the Delegation at Chile follows Brazil in a situation most extreme, came in Latin America. The outstanding force of the FUP in contrast to a weak position held by Christian Democracy towards the Cuban problem have enormously hindered the development of labor. Undoubtedly, however, the situation has greatly improved. During the last month, three different posters were printed and distributed throughout Santiago, short trips through the communities of the country were made on the Cuban problem, a half-hour radio broadcast is transmitted every Sunday (it is the only anti-Castrist radio broadcast in Chile). In the student field, the most relations are held with the Union of University Federation of Chile (FECH), maximum student organization of the nation.

B.- Deficiencies

On repeated occasions the Delegation has had to face the distrustful attitude taken by Demo-Christian leaders. As a consequence, the Delegates have sometimes felt disconcerted, in a situation of disorganization at work and lack of coordination. However, through rented efforts the Delegation has succeeded in keeping itself functioning, and is actually fully working.

C.- Future possibilities

After glancing over the labor already accomplished, we reached at the following conclusions in general assemblies we hold at Santiago. We determined what were to be the next steps to be taken in Chile.

a.- Strengthen the bonds which tie us with the FEDEM and with the youth of the Democrat Christian Party.
b.- Create a drafting force ready to be used at any moment.
c.- Continue the edition of a news bulletin which will be sent to all the radio stations, newspapers, TV, Cantore, Representatives, and institutions of the nation.
d.- Attaining of a radio broadcast to be heard throughout the nation.
e.- Strengthen our activities inside the communities and the popular mass by means of giving conferences, public acts, etc.
f.- Plan the possibilities of carrying through an action with relation to the Cuban Embassy.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# E.

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

## INTRODUCTION

This report is a general analysis on the labor performed by the Section of International Relations of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) and on its plans for the future. Hower, it would take much time to make a precise account on the later accomplished in more than one year, so ve will limit it to be a general outline, hoping that in the near future a more detailed one may be presented.

## GENERAL VIEW OF THE LABOR ACCOMPLISHED

The DPE can firmly assert that the labor carried through by the Section of International Relations has been a definite triumph for the organisation, due to the importance of the ground of operation and the intensity with which it has been developed. It is not an easy task to organise in such a brief term an international field of operation like ours, which has already born fruits and, in only one year, has attained great renown, even outside the borders of our continent. If all the motives for which the DRE's Latin American Plan has attained such success were to be outlined, we would never finish. We are going to list those which we consider are the most importants

A.- There can be no doubt that the most important labor has been the ene developed by teh DRB Delegates in Latin America. During many months, the economic support given to the Section of International Relations was so short that only with the voluntary sacrifices of our delegates in Latin America could the section be kept in function. We can name countless examples of generosity and self-sacrifice to our causes There ware Delegates who, for mary scnths, slept in cots and even on the floor, others who lived sorrounded by a wretched atmosphere, and others o even went hungry. Our celegates fought to undergo all difficultties and, many times against hostile atmospheres, equipped only with their enthusiasm and their ardent desire to carry our truth throught America. The merits of our entarysise belong solely to them.

B.- Maintain the DRE identified with the struggles of latin America Students, with whom we have shared ideals and cooperation during this year.

C.- Mantaining the system of propaganda from Miami to the labor which has made the DRE known throughout the continent and has increased Delegations its prestige, in spite ca the lack of information and economic means.

D.- Maintain the DRE identified with the representative movements in each country, its firm position fighting for the redonstruction of Cuba, crossing out Batista's abhorrent past and Castro's inhusan present, and holding an understanding posture towards the serious problems in Latin America, social injustice, oppression, militarism and ignorance. Fe have made also ours the longing for the ransoming of our continent. We have experienced all this surrounded by gigantic difficulties, limitations and, in mazy occasions, incomprehensions by those whoa we had trusted. Homents et downheartedness have lived within us more than once, but our spirit has maintained its firmness still hoping that the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas on morcha

people of the world towards our desperate calling may be some day achieved and that they may stretch their friendly hand to our patient, but erect, people. For the better understanding of the labor accomplished we will synthesise the main steps taken by this section in the develop ment of the mission the DRE bas assigned it.

## ORIGIN OF THE SECTION OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

The Section of International Relations was created by the National Executive of the DRS in the months of November December 1960. Luis Bosa Bomingues, ex-President of the Faculty of Science of the University of Havana, was appointed for its direction on January 1961, Mr. Eduardo Munis was ordered to come to Miani and was assigned the coordination of the DRE's labor in Latin America. Mr Munis arrived on the 8th of February, 1961.

## THE FIRST STEPS

Before Muniz's arrival at Miami, the DRE's activity in the international ground was so limited that it lacked importance, even thought had sent a Delegation to the Chancellors' assembly which was held on 1961 in the city of San Jose Costa, Rica, and had also sent a Delegation to Central America for the purpose of establishing contacts with student leaders in these countries. On the last days of February 1961, a DRE Commission composed by Ernesto Fernandez Travieso, Teresa Valdes Hurtado, and Eduarde Muniz was sent to Washington for the purpose of delivering a letter written by the DRE as genuine representation of Cuban Students to the President of the United States John F. Kennedy. This letter was handed to Mr. Richard Godwin (se ignore if it ever reached President Kennedy) It stated the basis and ideals which moved the DRE to fight the Castro regize and the common inspirations which led it together with the rest of Latin American Students towards the ashievement if social justice for the people of our continent.

Despite all this - and for motives which have not yet been given to us during February, March, and April 1961, we were entirely restrained in the development of our labor because of the poor admitance given to our plan. Our labor was reduce to the sending of some propaganda to Latin America, to the organising of files of contacts and organizations, and to the maintaining relations with them by mail. However, at the beginning of March 1961 the first three DRE De-legations in Latin America were stablished: Costa Rica, Venesuela, and Maxi-co. Thase Delegations practically, received no economic support for more than five months (they subsisted almost only by their own means) and so its labor as reduced to the least.

## GIRON INVASION, NEW OUTLOOKS

New possibilities in the Latin American ground were disclosed when, on the 17 th of April, the invasion through Playa Giron was defeated by the Communist forces, demonstrating this the mistake which the administration of the United States had performed in not relying upon continental publick opinion which had been skillfully influenced by Castrist propaganda. An objective glance on the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# DRE

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas ea marcha

-3-

actual reality clearly made this known to usi continental opinion supported
the Castro regime, Latin American youth beheld del Castro as the legendary
leader who would use the Latin American people towaris their total emanci-
pation and developnart. Little or nothin had been come to face this skillful
propapanda. The possibilities of opening a battle front against Castrisa in
the Latin American countries - the fundamental point of our plan - began to
be taken into consideration. The first attempts vares

1.- In May 1961, our members Zoila Dias, Marta Klena Rosdrigues and Raul Gon-
zales Simon ware sent to Sao Paolo, Brasil, and stayed there for one wath
carrying through labors of propaganda.

2.- Immediately after Alberto Miller, Secretary-General at the DRE, was caught,
a Delegation composed by Jorge Dorticos, Rogelio Helu and Joaquin Peres R
drigues, traveled through Brazil, Uruguay, Argentina and Chile working to
avoid the execution of our Secretary-General by the Castro regime. The l-
bor it accomplished together with the labor asccaplished in other countries
turned public optica towards our cause. Then the Deletation arrived at
Montevidéo, Cruguay, the Congreso por la Libertad y la Democracia vas
being held in that city, and the Delegation was invited to take part in it,.
holling an outslanding posture in its acting.

3.- Immediately after the trial of our Secretary-General, Alberto Muller, and
other 32 prisoners with his, one of the strongest and most successful can-
paigns we have accomplished, was carried through. Four delegations ware
urgently sent to Latin America, organised as follows.

Brazil - Raul Gennales Simon, Mario Garcia, Jose Basulto
Chile - Nessa Aare, Alejandro Portes, Rafael Ollor
Argentina- Rogelio Balu, Jorge Dorticos.
Uruguay - Eduards Mais, Rene Morato, Ramon Machado

At the same time, cables were sent from our maia office at Miami to all
the governants of the continent, Student Unions, and civic organizations,
making use of the contacts we had made by mail on our beginnings. The
results of the campaign were really astonishing.. All the governments of
the continent ploaied in favor of Muller and the other prisoners, almost
all the Student Uriscs, countless civic organisations did the same, public
manifestations rada in Mexico, Panama, Chile, Venesuela, Ecuador, and
Peru, stones ware thrown at the Cuban Babassy at Folivia all the Liceos
(High Schools) in Kontevideo, Uruguay, went on strike on the day of the trial,
the Federacion Estufantil Universitaria (MU) in Honduras also went on
strike for one day, through the streets of San Jose, Costa Rica, a great
student manifestation was made, and the Federacion Sstudiantil Universitaria
(FEUCR) proposei to change Alberto Muller for coe tractor.

The labor performed was so effective that traiter Ernesto Che Guevara, in
his interview with President Janio Quadros during his stop at Brazilia r-
turning from the Conferencia Interamericaла. Белконіса у Social (CIES),
was asked from the Frstilian government to spare the lives of Muller and'
the other prisoners, he must point out that in speech pronounced by Guevara


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverría con tus ideas en marcha

in the city of Manzanillo in Oriente province, Cuba, he stated that in his trip through South Azerica be had seen certain stirring in favor of a group af pri sonere caugh in Cata. (He was evidently talking about the campaign in favor of Miller). This Campaing clearly showed the great possibilities we had in Latin America and the urgent need to carry through all the nations the great truth of what was happening in Cuba.

## DEVELOPMENT OF THE LATIN AMERICAN PIAN

In Agust, 1961, the fust conversations to achieve the economie support for our plan were held. Thay lasted for approximately one month because we were not in accordance on several points. It was decided that permanent delegations were to be established in Latin America and for such purpose we made a well-studied and detailed plan in which we exposed our opinion on how to develop the labor throughout the continent. Unfortunately, many of the points we exposed in the plan were not approved (tise gave us after the reason for as labor was being developed it mis necessary to enforce magy of the points which had once been rejected) and we began to develop the plan through the limited means we passessed to achieve the objectives we had assigned ourselves. The main objective in the first plan of the DRE were:

A.- Make the DRZ known through continental public opinion, principally the Students ' opinion.

B.- Make openly known the truth of what was happening in Cuba through all the means which could be useful.

C.- Stit public opinion in favor of our cause.

Dolegation were established in less than three months in the following countries : Costa Rica, Venezuela, Mexico, Bolivia, Brazil (Sao Paolo ), Peru, Argentina, Chile, Uruguay. Later, Delegations were established in Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, Honduras, Guatemala, Puerto Rica and Santo Domingo and Brazil (Rio de Janeiro) The activity unfolded since then needs not be narrated, not only because it would take mucha tims but also because evident facts demostrate the importance and the dimension acaiered by the labor in the plan of the DRE for Latin America. In general form we will list wome of the most important events during this period of time.

1.- 27th of Novembers day of duel for Latin American Students in memory of the Students exerted in Cuba. At the IV Latin American Assembly of Students (CLAR) to with a DRE Delegation assisted and which we detail later on this report, it was decided to declare the 27th of November (date in whichi 8 students of Medicine were shot by the Spanish soldiers during the Cuban war of Independence) day of duel for Latin American students. This date was commemorated in almost all the Latin American countries, being this one of the first great blows we achieved coordinately throughout the continent. All the acts which were performed and the propaganda which was issued are filed in our office.

2.- Student manifestation in Costa Rica on the 17th of October. It was possibly


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# DRE

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

the greatest student manifestation that has taken place in San Jose. More than 6.000 students asking the goverment to break relations with Castro were present at it.

3.- The campaign to save the life of Miguel Garcia Armengol. For this campaign, as well as for the campaign in favor of Miller, we appealed to every means possible, this attaining the halp from the Latin American governments and from almost all the Student Unions and civic organizations of the continents.

4.- The camraim to save the life of Hans Congler and Juan Pereira (Juanin)
As in the previous campaigns, we moved continental public opinion in favor of our just demands. Unfortunately, our dear Juan Pereira Varela was killed in the coast of Cuba, before the pleadings for mercy from all places of the continent reached Castro and before the Secretary of Foreign Relations af Brazil, San Thiago Dantas, could intersede for his life, as he had promised Jose I. Rodrigues, with show he had held a private interview, the whole account on the labor we accomplished for this campaign and for the campaign in favor of Miguel Garcia Armengol, is filed in our offices.

5.- Help rendered to Latin American Student Unions. From the Latin American outlook, this labor has probably been one of the most important labore carried through by our Delegations. During this year many of our Delegations have worked intimately with the democratic leaders of the Student Unionsof the continent in order to throuw the Communists out from the positions which they control and to attain success in student elections of simply maintain the actual positions held. Some efforts which deserve to be named abes The labor accomplishe by our Delegation in Panama due to which (according to the exact words of student leaders ir. Panama) the direction of the Union de Estudiantes Universitarios (UEU ) which had follen in Communist control, was reconquered by the Democrats. The labor accomplished by our Delegation ab Benezuela has been perhaps the mos important, through which student groups of the Partido Social Cristiano ( COPKI) and the Partido Accion Democratica (AD) have stronly opposed in armedactions the Communist groups which control the University and have even received the compliments of President, Romulo Betancourt. The labor accomplished by our Delegation at Honduras, through which it has helped and guided the democratic administration of the Federacion Estudiantil Universitaria (FEUH) and also payed for the publication af the newspaper "Avance", official reporter of the FEUH. The account on the labor carried through by the DRE together with the Confederacion Universitaria de Bolivia, the Federacion Universitaria del Peru, with that of upposition of Uruguay, Argentina and Brasil and Santo Domingo is filed in our offices.

6.- The system of propaganda of the Section of International Relations. Our system of propaganda is probably one of the most strong in the student Latin American ground, in spise li the limited means we possess. Our labor If propaganda has been so intensive that we have practically had to use a larger place, to file the propaganda the Delegations have issued and sent us, We have maintained the best relations with latin American press, which frequently publishes articles on the DPEalso the international news agencies (UPI, AP, etc.) have published cables related to the DRE. For the better understanding of the labor developed we are going to divide it in written propaganda and propaganda by radio broadcasts.

a.- Written propaganda


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echaverria con tus ideas en marcha

Mexico The newspaper "Ataque ", official reporter of the Delegation, is published. Many pamphlets, as the one about the 27th of November, and tons of written propagando have been edited.

Costa Rice. Posters and great amounts of written propaganda have been printed and pamphlets edited by our main office at Miami have been printed again.

Venezuela - "Trinchera", official reporter of the DRE Delegation ab Maracaibo, is edited in Maracaibo. The Delegation at Caracas has printed the pamphlet, "Cuba, Misery and Hunger", propaganda which had been edited in Miani, as the pamphlet "Mire Ud como nos autodeterminanos", Posters and tons of written propaganda have been also printed.

Pery-TheDelegation aida the edition of the magazine "Clamor", though not in the name of the DRE. The series of pamphlets Seguiremos Informan-doare edited and also posters and lots of written propaganda.

Uruguay.- The DRE Delegation at Uruguay edited the pamphlet "Cuba Comunista" and has also edited a great amount of written propaganda.

Ecuador-The Delegation has edited the pamphlet Fidel Castro tridos a America", countless posters, and has printed again propaganda received from Miami,

Brazil. The Delegation at Rio de Janeiro has edited the pamphlets "Bases para revolucion latinoamericana", "Que es el DFE". The Delegation at Sao Paolo has also edited countless pamphlets with photograph illustrations.

Santo Domingo The Delegation has printed lots of propaganda sent by the main office at Miami.

Bolivia, Colombia, Chile, Argentina, Panama, Honduras - These Delegations has printed Propaganda edited by the main office at Miami, als posters and lots of propaganda, and have regularly written articles in the pres8.

b.- Propaganda by radio broadcasts

Honduras. The Delegation broadcasts daily Trinchera" by radio America, Santo Domingo.- The Delegation broadcasts daily "Trinchera which lasts 30 mimites by Radio Caribe.

Venezuela. The Delegation broadcasts daily "Trinchera" which lasts 30 minutes, by radio "Libertad"

Costa Rica. The Delegation broadcast" Trinchera Estudiantil Crbana" three times a week by Voz de la Victor

Panama. The Delegation broadcasts "Trinchera" three times a week by radio Miramar

Chile. The Delegation broadcasts "Trinchera" once a week by radio Chile

Bolivia. The Delegation broadcasts daily " Trinchera" by radio "Amauca"

Uruguay. The Delegation broadcasts Trinchera" three times a week by radio Rural".

Colombia- The Delegation broadcasts daily "Trinchera by radio "Santa Fe Peru, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, - broadcast weekly programs.

c.- Photographic propaganda.

There can be no doubt that the success attained in this fiel is of the greatest importance. The main office has been supplying photographic material to the Delegations for several months, so that they could use it for propaganda. A great blow was achieved with the photographs illustrating the events at the Ecuador Embassy in Cuba, when three Cubans, seeking political assile, tried to enter the Embassy and were shot by the militia being already inside Ecuatorian field. These photographs were distributed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echoverria con tus ideas en marcha

-7-

among all the Delegations and a day was appointed for their publication in all places of the continent. Thus, a great success was achieved. This same the photographs were published in almost all the Latin American newspapers, and, later, they were even published in extra-continental press.

It is of vital importance to point out the success achieved by the photograph exhibition, organized by the photograph department of the Section of International Relations. This exhibition was composed of 30 enlarged photographs to be shown at public squares and organizations and were sent to each Delegation. These exhibitions are still being shown in Latin America. Thousands of persons have visited them and the success achieved up-to-date has been great.

7- Intelligence and Agitation. During one lo ng year we have received through the Delegations many informations on Castrist activities throughout the continent, as well as on Communist activities in general. Stirring has noither been absent - Two libraries of the Communist Party were destroyed in Montevideo, a place were support for Fidel Castro was received was also destroyed in Montevideo, and students groupe in Venezuela have been trained.

## THE CHANCELLORS' CONFERENCE

When the Chancellors' Conference was held inJanuary 1961, there was a plan to turn public opinion in favor of taking energetic steps against the Castro regime. For this purpose, the 25th of January was appointed as the day in which "La Marcha del Silencio" (The Silence March) was to be carried through in the principal Latin American cities, to give support to the Conference and protestd for the crimes accomplished by the Castro Communist Regime. The results were truly astonishing. In Bolivia more than 20,000 people took part in "La Marche del Silencio", they all carried lighted torches since it was at night fall. In Peru, more than 10,000 persons were assembled and in Quayaquil, Ecuador, around 5,000. Also smaller manifestations were made in Honduras, Panama, Hexico, and Colombia.

The DRE Delegation sen to the Chancellors' Conference visited several countries before arriving at Montevideo, so as to develop in them the labor of propaganda and organization previous to the events that would take place during the Conference. This Delegation was divided in two groups. The first one was composed by Juan M. Salvat, Fernando Garcia Chacon, Jose Maria Lasa, Ernesto Fernandez Travieso, and Mario Pita. This group visited Bolivia, Peru, Chile, and Argentina. The second group was composed only by Eduardo Minis, who visited Honduras, Costa Rica, Panama, and Brazil. During this trips, press conferences, interviews with secretaries of Foreign Relations, and with Presidents of the nations, were held. In Uruguay, the first photograph exhibition was shown in the Plaza Libertad, a gigantic meeting was held in Montevideo and four meetings were held in other cities of the country (San Carlos, Piriapolis, Minas, and Maldonado), pest bombs were placed at the Communist meeting in the University, press conferences were held, and radio programs were broadcasted, all during the Conference.

In a general form, we have explained some of the activities developed by the Section Of International Relations of the DRE. It would be impossible to describe them all completely.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

## INTERNATIONAL STUDENT ASSEMBLIES

We are going to narrate separately the labor accomplished by the Section of International Relations in the international student assemblies, for it results of great importance. The IRE has sent Delegations to three great student assemblies: IV CIAE (Congreso Latinoamericano de Estudiantes), III CEUCA (Congreso de Estudiantes Universitarios de Centro America) and X CIE (Conferencia Internacional De Estudiantes). A Delegation was also sent to travel through several countries of Africa (Senegal, Chana, Henya, Egipto, Marruecos, Nigeria, Argelia, and Tunes) in order to establish contacts with the Student Unions of Africa in preparation for the CIE.

a. IV Congreso Latinoamericano de Estudiantes (IV CLAE)

The DRE sent a Delegation to the IV CLAR -the most important LatinAmerican student assembly- composed by: Luis Fernandez Rocha, Luis Boza Dominguez, Joaquin Perez, Jose I. Rodrigues Lombille, Antonio B. Abella, and Eduardo Mumis. The report on the labor accomplished by this Delegation in the IV CLAB -a Delegation from the BEU of Cuba was present at it also has been already presented. But we will only list the following resolutions which were taken in the assembly due to our bigorous action.

Condemn the executions of students in Cuba.

Demand freedom for Alberto Miller and the other imprisoned students.

Proclaim the 27th. of November day of duel for Latin American students, in memory of the Cuban students that have been executed.

Ask the Comision de Estudios e Informacion (RIC), organism of the International Student Conference, to perform an investigation on the situation of Cuban students.

b. Congreso de Estudiantes Universitarios De Centro America (III CEUCA)

The DRE sent a delegation to this assembly, held in San Jose, Costa Rica, led by Rogelio Helu and composed by delegates of the IRE in Costa Rica. The celebration of the III CEUCA did not finally take place because the Unions controlled by Communists asked that the Cuban Revolution be given a vote of confidence. Mexico, Costa Rica, Guatemala, and Honduras, opposed this petition. At this critical situation, the democratic delegation retired, finishing thus the Assembly and leaving the Communists unable to reach their objective.

o-. Conferencia Internacional de Estudiantes (X CIE)

In the X CIE just held at Quebec, Canada, athe DRE Delegation obtained the greatest success ever in the assistanse to a student assembly. This Delegation was composed bys Jose I. Rodrigues Lombillo, Rafael Tremols, Joaquin Perez, Lourdes Casals, Rogelio Helu, and Eduardo Muniz. Their assistance at the assem bly turned out to be a great success owing to the efforts of the Delegation.

The assembly condemned, with only one vote of opposition from India, the executions and imprisonments of Cuban students and the suspension of the publication of the newspapers of the University by the Totalitarian State,

Copies of this resdžution will be sent to all Student Unions of the world, to the United Nations, and to the government of Fidel Castro. The report on the X CIE will soon be delivered.

d. The Delegation sent by the DRE to Africa

On the last days of May, 1962, the IRE sent a delegation to Africa composed by Jose I. Rodriguez Lombillo, Raul Gonzalez Simon, and Lourdes Casals. They traveled through these countries: Senegal, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Egypt, Marruecos, Tunes, and Argelia.. They established contacts with the leaders of Student Unions and distributed among then extensive informations on the actual situation of Cuban Students, translated to English and French. The leaders


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

-9-

were greatly impressed by the pamphlet *"The Perversion of a University"*. The positive results of this trip to Africa ware clearly disclosed at the X CIB, where the Student Unions from Chana, Nigeira and Kenya ardently defended us.

6-. Actually the DRE is planning to send a Delegation to the Festival Mundial de la Juventud whcih will be held this year at Helsinki, Finland.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# DRE

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

## DEFFICIENCIES AND DIFFICULTIES

During more than one year of vigorous working, the Section of International Relations has encountered countless deficiencies and difficulties, many of which have been already surpassed, though others still prevail. We will state bellow the main difficulties which we are actually facing and which we endeavor to surpass as soon as possible.

1.- Personnel

The problem on lack of personnel has been and is one of the main difficulties which the Section has encountered in its labor. Countless are the motives for this, among which we can list.

A.- Lagk of capable personnel : Due to the importance of the labor developed in Latin America, the personnel with capacity for the work is not very abundant.

B.- Personal problems of the aspirants to Delegates: This is one of the most conflictive motives we are actually facing.

More than exile by the Cuban people, what is actually taking place is a massive exodus of our people. Consequently, being in the need of working to help their families, many Delegates have had to give up their labors and cooperation with us. In many cases, aspirants to Delegates have been forced to abandon the Plan remaining only a few days for their departure.

C.- Problems on obtaining visas: The difficulties in obtaining the visas for several countries (like Colombia, Mexico, El Salvador, Santo Domingo) has also, on many occasions, hindered the departure of the Delegates for Latin America. There is a specific example in Mexico, for which it has been absolutely impossible to obtain the visas; in spite of all the efforts made. Many delegates in these said conditions of anactivity have consequently abandoned the plan.

D.- Problems of Delegates in the respective countries: The problems the Delegates have had to face in the different countries have been so many that it results imposible to outline them all. We will try to point out those which we consider are the most importat:

a.- Economic difficulties: The Delegates lacked operational funds to develop their plans for approximately one year. Their field of operation was logically reduced to the least. Actually the delegates do have these funds, though, evidently, many of the plans could not be carried through then.

b.- Problems with American officials in the different countries: Though in the majority of the countries our relations are the best, pavertheless, we hatve had to face problems in some. For example, in Honduras we have had to change the Delegate due to pressure of Batista supporters. In our Delegation at Sao Paolo, Brasil, our Delegates have even had to clean fields, just as simple workers, (they ware not sent to Latin America for such purposes) and further more they have even been prohibited to use the name of the DRE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

jose antonio echeverria con tus idoos en marcha

C) Psychological pressures which influence on the Delegates. One ought to understand the situation wich a DRE Delegate has to encounter in Latin America. Generally, they are young boys and the lonesome atmosphere in which they are, iniluences greatly upon them. In repeated accasions we have stated the need of making frequent trips to the "elegations, but up to the present, no heed has been paid to our demand. We consider this of vital importance and, once again, we state our demand of traveling to the Delegations in order to sintain high the moral of the Delegates and to avoid a feeling of forlomress and isolation in them.

We have briefly exposed some of the deficiencies and difficulties which we are actually facing. They have been written in the best spirit and not moved by any wrong motive, but for the only purpose of attaining a prompt solution for our problems.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL

Jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

MATCO.-

Due to the special situation of the ES Delegation at 'exico, it fundamentally worked on the fellowing; points:

a) Nenunciation of the resence of Russian troops and war equipment in ban soil. We encloso abundant caterial and the map the Delegation gave the press which ablished it throu, hout the weld.

b) demonstrating that Castro has weaknesses throuhe the shelling of Kavana's seacoast.

c) Celeration of a Hass on the Sth of September at the Cathedral of Nex-co, which resulted in a great success.

At the same time a grast campaign fer a declaration sined by the Mexion people backing up the Chancellers Assembly is being carried through.

ife enclose paper clippings, articles, caps, etc.

alton & WiGAG140

14-124-26/3

7 CST 62


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

RENGER WILL 18.CK CLASSIFICATIC OP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIAK    |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | ---------- |
| 1   | WH/1/            |      | [Initials] |
| 2   | Km/332631        |      | [Initials] |
| 3   |                  |      |            |
| 4   |                  |      |            |
| 5   |                  |      |            |
| 6   |                  |      |            |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:
Reports of AMBAND
Activities during Sept.

File: AMDARB Tempo

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME. ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE

[Signature] TEW/17A - Prop. 4E79 11/1/62

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editipas
2-61 U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE (40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

PEM:

The Delegation at F. performed the following activities:

A.-.lt gave out numerous press corriques densurein, the presence of Soviet troops in Maba.

b.- Declarations about the attack to Havana's stacoast by members of the D. were made and great support was obtained.

C.- An article appeared on the "Time" Magazine of September 7, 1962 was traslated and distributed in rest amount. The article narrated the present and past actions of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# LA CRONICA

Lima, Martes 28 de Agosto de 1962

Pág. 5

# Bombardeo a Cuba fue militarmente premeditado - dicen jóvenes cubanos

300 mil son los exilados que luchan por liberar a Cuba de rojos

Que el último bombardeo a La Habana, por miembros del Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil, fue "militarmente premeditado", revelaron a LA CRONICA. Roberto Pérez San Roman y Rafael Quintero, miembros de la Brigada de Asalto que participaron en la invasión a la isla Cochinos y que actualmente visitan el Perú. El primero, tiene el cargo de Jefe de Artillería. En su visita a nuestro diario estuvieron acompañados de Rolando Fernandes, delegado del DIRE en el Perú.

Manifestaron también que ésos ataques estaban preparando desde hace tiempo y que en el momento del bombardeo al hotel ICAP, Fidel Castro se encontraba reunido con altos técnicos rusos. "De allí el bombardeo al hotel", dijeron.

Revelaron igualmente que el gobierno de Fidel Castro, va a fusilar a varios jóvenes, entre ellos estudiantes y líderes obreros y campesinos, acusados de ser autores de los bombardeos. Esto, sin juicio previo.

Como se sabe, el bombardeo a La Habana se produjo en la noche del viernes 24 del presente, hecho que motiva que Cuba culpase a Estados Unidos de ser el autor intelectual.

Unos dos de los jóvenes, Roberto Pérez San Roman y Rafael Quintero manifestaron que en el bombardeo participaron dos lanchas con 23 hombres al mando del DIRE en Miami, y no allí a Centro América. Llevaban también Lage, autos y 23 hombres; Juan Manuel Salvat y los 23 hombres hoy tienen 23 años.

Ya volvieron 2 de estos dos exilados que estos países podrían proporcio-

![photo of Rolando Fernandes, Delagade Oficial en el Pere doi BHE. y Roberto Pérez San Ramón y Rafael Rafael Quintera, miembros de la Bigata de Asalto 2506.]

Los exilados cubanos que actualmente se encuentran en el país. De izquierda a derecha, Rolando Fernandes, Delagade Oficial en el Pere doi BHE. y Roberto Pérez San Ramón y Rafael Rafael Quintera, miembros de la Brigada de Asalto 2506.

cubanos, miembros del Consejo Revolucionario y contribuir a la liberación de toda la Cuba oprimida.

Hay en Miami manifestaciones de apoyo a la causa y recolectar toda la información latinoamericana, con el objeto de hundir la verdadera situación a más de 300 mil exilados cubanos que están haciendo esfuerzos desesperados para instar la liberación de su patria.

Ellos - continuaron - prefieren morir luchando por la liberación antes que estar impasibles ante los fusilamientos impunes que se hacen en La Cuba.

Declararon que en la prisión de Le Habana se encuentran Manuel Gutiérrez, estudiante de la Universidad de La Habana y Enrique Cepero, sobrino de un actual Ministro de Fidel Castro.

DECLARACIONES DE ROLANDO FERNANDEZ

El Delegado en el Perú del Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil de Cuba, Rolando M. Fernández, declara:

16 "que la actual política de Estados Unidos con respeto de Cuba parece querer regresar a una etapa de consternación."

"Llego a esta conclusión - expresó - luego de considerar las afirmaciones hechas por el Departamento de Justicia y el Encargado de Prensa del Departamento de Estado del país del Norte, referentes al bombardeo efectuado desde el mar contra una zona militar de La Habana, y la imputación por el gobierno estadounidense de las dos embarcaciones que tomaron parte en la citada acción naval."

"Me pregunto - dijo el Delegado cubano - ¿qué beneficios puede aportar a la democracia, a la lucha contra el comunismo amenazante una actitud como la que está adoptante Estados Unidos? Me pregunto, también, si es posible creer que vamos a fortalecer la democracia impidiendo actuar a los cubanos demócratas o eva a aumentar el prestigio del sistema occidental cristiano disponiendo de instrumentos dus sirven a la lucha coptra el comunismo."

"Yo en particular, desearía equivocarme en la consideración de los propósitos norteamericanos, porque juzgo que ur politica de coexistencia con Cuba destruiria irremisiblemente con Cuba una historia sino una cura de perjuicios muy grandes para Latinoaméricaro y el robustecimiento del comunismo. en América."

"Sinceramente empiezo a dudar de las palabras del Presidente Kinnear, en el sentido de que "Cuba no será abandonada".

"El movimiento democrático de los cubanos en el exilio y de los cubanos de la resistencia en Cuba contra el régimen de Castro, restere, o discrepa totalmente de toda actitud o política que pretenda dirigirse o se dirija a lograr una crexistencia con el comunismo o que desgobierna a la república del Caribe. Estamos, por el contrario, de acuerdo con toda posición que no signifique daño para la democracia continental y si, in's bien, el debidamente destrucción

p Casas, ves

vo нас que


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# técnicos rusos comenzaron a terimin
ES ESTARIAN INSTALANDO CERCA DE GUANTANAMO. - CRECE LA PREOCUPACION EN LO

rino
ocido

WASHINGTON:- PROTESTA DE REFUGIADOS CUBANOS. Un policia contempla el paso de un piquete de refugiados cubanos los cuales llevan rótulos con las inscripciones: "Rusos no metan sus narices on Cuba". La protesta se origino ante el anuncio de que trepas y thenicos soviéticos habien desembarcado en La Habana.

![photo of cuban refugees protesting]

Sólo promesas convertidas en hambre
hizo Fidel Castro al pueblo de Cuba

MIAMI. Auto 27 (UPD.- Hace hoy justamente un año que el Primer Ministro de Cuba. Friel Castro, prometio al pueblo rubano que en dios meses "stu cinturon estaria me y que cerian resueltas has cenado" lus principales problemas de abastecimiento de la nac.or, scaun recordan diplomatico destacado en Cuba de maso en cala ciudad. Hace un año, tivo lugar la princera reunion neesonat de producción y el discurso central de ese acto fue dicho por Castro. El cuadro de promesas halagt.csas presentado por eli Pruner Ministro, afirmó el diploma-ticu, fue el siguiente:

-En el mes de Diciembre de 1961. estaria resuelto plenamente el abastevimiento de aurs en La Habana. para el 14 de febrero del entrasite ato, tu tucos los mercados nacionaies.

--A partir de Enero de 1962, la production de viandas tuberculos superaria las necesidades dei me:-cado nacional.

-En junio de 1962. la producción de pescado satisfaria la demanda del consumi.

-El 1º de Enero de 1963, quedara svulido el racionamiento de grasas comestibles.

Sin embargo, apuntó el diplomatı-cu, en vez de la mejoria premeti-da, la situation se ha agudizado. Por primera vez en su historia, el puebiu cubanu sutre los rigores e incoVementes de la libreta de racionamento para obtener alimentos. Doce meses pues de aquella históLa reunion -agrego- la escasez de alintentos, ropas, capatos y medicinas se hace mas agohradera. Las futures maures tienen que hacer largas colas, para obterer preca de teles con que hacer patiale pueden enviar un fanu-liar, pues para comprarias liellen que exhiber su estado de gravidez. En las tiendas de ropa interior de • Mujer o re hunb.r, solo venden dos, piezas por persona. En las tiem tas de calzado, para evitar que los escaparates se vean vaclos se o que sean Benados! con cajas vacas, En cuanto a los alimentos die plomatico se tematio. las : el and actual, antece el aumster bir de les tres bases stars studs

Canciller Unda de Guatemala, dice:
Presencia de tropas rojas en Cuba
pondrá a prueba el Tratado de Rio

GUATEMALA agosto 27. UPD-Fi Cancolier Jesus Unda declard hoy que la presencia e troua communist rasas chechinas en Cuba "justifica funera prueba inmediatamente la efectividad de los articulos sextoy nowveno del Tratado de Rio de Janeto que proven el caso de asemes armadas contra el Continente ericano. "Justificarla también una confirencia inmediata de Ministros de RR. EE. para tomar medidas ea estiino que estarian de acuerda en mitestra propia defensa, en lo que mitestra propios Gobiernos americanos" La llegada de esas tropas a be explicó Unda Muralla significa grave peligro para la Ame-

![photo of Jesus Unda Murilla]

"Ello es parte de la manichia militer anunciada en Mosca hare tiempo, que persigue dividir al continente en dos fracciones, dejando aislados en esta forina a les Estados Unidos, que constituyen le furiza militar rás poderus capaz de enfrentarse al comunisnio son tético. "Estos hechos -la llegada de tropas pueden significar dus cosar: primero, que Castro ha perdido la confianza del propio pueblo y de las nulicias populares y se ve obligado a recurrir a fuetzas mercenarias comunistas para sostenerse en el poder.

NUEVA YORK 227, Purnisacion de L'u sona de cantidades importantes de tecnicos militan's y detico, raliża mientras el Guburino de tadtamente que ales nosteamericanos de la have ttonomia el pasarico y las agins territottales Ain no ha determinitada la relacion que pude en bus bertus. Se sale que autoridades norteamericanos estan persp atmente ante la penabindad de que entre el rat pia Union Sovetira haja provestites de lanzamente tot 10 metaimium de este equipo cerca de Guantaname, p dria aumentar peligrotamente la tirantes cubano notrameta pwato a la minema ve haval qur el Primer Ministro Fuel Ca fha in que eventualmente estara bajo su control, segun amonaren furstre politicas. En los des altimne meses el Ministerio de las Fuerzas Atiradins Cuta publica comunicados diarios en los que acura a at bat Fumari mortamericaños de "lolur" territorio culiano. En sis las supuestas violaciones orurieron alrededor de la base de Guantana.. La mas reuenle de estas acusaciones, publicada ayer, due que avion norteamericano volo sobre varias poolaciones en la provado Matenras durante una acción que duro 28 noutos después de la media. nahe del veritare. E comunicado no indico de qué manera purio stablerais el punto de origen del avion.

Según el comunicado, un avton bimotor voló el viernes sobre un taito cubano en aguas de Cuba, al noreste de Mariel. El estilo, contenido y continuidad de estas acusaciones se asemejan mucho a las advertencias" frecuentes que la radio de Pekin, en Ch Cenumista, dilige a stados Unidos, al acusar a embarcaciones y avich Durteamericanos de neter "violaciones" territorialer... Los commiradus cubanos frecuentemente contienen acusaciones a cionales, mufe ataques armados de la Infanteria de Marina norteameric na "hacia (ula" drete. la bare. El anuncio hecho el viernes último por el Gobierno norteamericar sobre la llegada de retuerzos sovieticos a Cuba cuincidió con las ar tuciones de chilados cubanos de que tropas rusas y de otros panes c blongue sovittno se encuentran en gran número en La Hanana. No obstante, funcionamos norteamericanos se rebrieron a "c ya "técnicos militases y no a soldados.

El anuncio fue hecho, además, pocus horas antes de que refu culano, en dos lanens, lanzaran un ataque contra el litoral de la bana, el viernes por la noche, utilizando un calon de 20 mumetros I'n grupo de estudiantes exdados en Miami se atribuyo la repbilidad por el atarate El Departamento de Justicia norteamericano cio povas horas después que investigaria el hecho para deter:amar grupo habia Violetto la Ley de Neutralidad de Estados Unidos, Un voz del Departainento dijo hoy que "la cuestion regula siendo examEl Gobierno de Fidel Castro publica, el sábado una declaracion que acusaha Estados Unidos por el ataque. Dijo que habita fide zarin por "el Golburino norteamericano y los agentes mercenare diendo a Ins refugiados cubanos anticomunistast que ha reciutade madu". Castro agregó que su Gobletno habis tomado "todas las modcesarias para hacer frente al ataque norteamericano. Presidente de Cuba, Oswalda Dorticos, pronunció ayer un en el cual, al igual que Castro, aluriló a los preparativus dels Cuba..

Los diartes de Cuba enunciaron ayer que "curladanos for: sigente John F. Kennedy, exigiendo que "ponga térauno a era nos" no identificados que viven en Cuba enviaron un cablegra.. y zelite todas las embarcaciones norteamericanas en la costa Los supuestos nosteamericanos también enviaron un ca Secretario General Interino de las Naciones Unidas, Thant; intervención de la organizacion Internacional "ante etap que conducirán a una guerra nuclear y a la destrucción de la segin la prensa castrista. Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil, intexrado por hanos que residen en Miami, dijo que la acción contra el praba una reunión de "técnicos" presumiblemente del bles abans incluyó el cañones de un teatro de La Habana en ! No descartaron la posibilidad de que Fidel Castro bublese es

Cuba cree que EE.UU. invadirá la
CONSIDERAN QUE PRELUDIO ES GIRA DEL GENERAL TAYLOR Y MOVIMIENTO AER

PARIS, Agosto 27 (AFP)-“Los Estados Unidos preparan una acción de-recta vatra Cuba”. Tel es ia epin.on expresada en los circulos oficiales y en to detios pubernamentales de Cuba después del ataque por niar lanca-ries cutanus. en to detios pubernamentales de Cuba después del ataque por niar lanca-ries cutanus.

Para establecer esta ronjen ra en La Habana se ha unido el ataque del viernes a certo número de enorfantes": la gira efectuata por muchu de tsce ganee disses eubanu por aviones norteamericanos, sobre las cuales el Ministerio cuiuno ha unido el ataque del viernes a certo número de enorfantes": la gira efectuata por muchu de tsce ganee disses eubanu por aviones norteamericanos, sobre las cuales el Ministerio cuiuno de los tres bases stars studs hace un observachen estadounidense, el Ostera” de las Fuerzas Araizdas tanco ayer sa 142 denuncia despues del 1 de jufor otra parte, les exlarus cabanos en Florida son presentados como cercenarios al servicio de los Estados Unidos”.

For su lado, Lembardo Teledato, que dirige en México el Partido Pe-dur Socialista, proteste avet en la reche, le nismo que otros movimueritesi danmexicanes, contra od ataque del pasado viernes, y declaru “Siul de esta nueva Lolacich sa soderama cubana recaeris sobre el te tendres qenie Kemedy no conta con y a sus autores, la respon En Portavoz del Departamento de are los guardacostas estadua lizados en este

Anuncian en México rebelión de mi
Che Guevara voló a

LA HABANA. agosto 20 - A
FP. El Comandante Ernesto
Guevara, Ministro de Industrias,
partió hacia Moscú ayer dominzo
Segun reveló el matuling semioti
cial "Revolución", viaja acompa
ñado por el Capitán Emilio Ara-
genes, miembro del Secretariado
de las ORI Organizaciones Re
volucionarias. Integradas, es decir,
la version tran transitoria del Partido
Unico Marxista Leninista). Gue
Vara es el principal dirigente eco
nomico del gobierno cubano. El
viaje no ftie anunciado con ante
Segun "Revolución", Guevara
moscu sobre la futura
ria sovch

milicianos cuba:
contra el re
Mirzas ant.cast
el buletin tie!
cianario Estu
ción de Méx
guardahan l
de Honjila. τε
tsioso dre FM
juntarse con
encuentran
raente con
sembarcare
por la custa
de Las Vail.
deid de C..
letin.
Dire


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# LA CRONICA
Lima, Domingo 2 de Agosto de 1962 Pag

# DRE fue responsable dice Departamento de Estad

En declaración oficial expresan que no pedían aprobar que se ulliice territorio de E.U. como base de acción na

## Kennedy examina
Tensión en Cuba

HYS PORT, MASSACHU- SETTS Audo 25 (UPI).- El Pre- lente John Kennedy, que para el fin learnera en el ex dana del Se- intervenciones del Seg eto y Irite gerntan itu de la trantes en Cuba.

Fn Wastor el goberno ne ateor.ca afirmación he of el Prime Ministro cubang Castro, de que el trombardeo de la ie un ataque ota de la " bal Jefe de Leado conferencio por fon vas funcionar.is ... 16 and ra mar sralive inmediat ante una non de las instalaciones.ri qur ara direct maplease en ca- , de que ei aina orta en:Cuba die del: Jugara dente.

El Ayuriare Naval del Presidente Aptain Kaarzad! Sorpaid, conferen 6 con Keyju puso al tanto • la infurimorda por el Servicio de Inc. A prsar de que mas se oleme forure el arcular fue entendido que la onferencia de toy Paluso relaciona con la sen Cuba Fuentes of airs en la residencia • Presidente en Cape Cod descar- ron totalmente la denuncia de Cas o de que estaque fue realizar10 or Fatados Unidos.

BAN HOUEI SAI, Lact. CONTRA EL ENEMIGO ROJO. Estes pacificce ciudadance se ven obligados abandonar sus hagares ante el continuo hostigamiento de las guerre llas somunistas. Les fuerzas jubernamentales controlan la situación, pera no taitan les alevosos ataques de parte de inconic maca rojos que traicionan a su palta con tal de servir les incontesables desigrica del Kremlin.

WASHINGTON de Estado desse rosa ce am fr alraldructo de la liv rta קול intenta rit rede realmente co Airpa, et Departe de Justicia ridor esta invest.gando sa la Ley Netraint. SEE UU ha voda er.sw

"Aunque cony rendemes les este grupo de estudantes dor.sys. nua de se el territorio norteamerica aren", dijo el Fncarrado de Prea arl Depaпа de Fetado. Robert J. McCloskey, amando con ha pe alatas

La funcionarios deeren que el ataque probable to fue tealizado con des lancras a motor privades, Adadieren, sin embarque antio Baden .. lanchas salieren reainete de gas nuttramer: para llevar a celo la expedien Se tiene entendado que os membres del DRE. cas:1.5ts en Mia estan siendo interrogais ait funcionarios norteamericanos. La Ley de Neutralidad considera un deiste ers zar en suelo de los EE. UU. una invasion contra pais

El anuncio del Departamerie de F-tado dice "Debemos informar a les participantes que toda peticion de semejante accion por parte de cun rupo pudiera sinificar la aplicacion de lo previs:: Sa Ley de Neutralidad".

Fosteriormente, empera, diches funcionanca d que esto no quiere der que el grupo estudiantil, areebir de las leyes de los EE. U Previamente, durante el dia, : Departamentc Estado habia nesado fermemente que los Estades Ur estuvieran "invoinetados en forma alguna o tuvierar nocimento del ataque a Cuba que se ha anuncian

## Desembarcos y alzamientos se anunt
INAR DEL RIO, ESCAMBRAY, SIERRA CRISTAL Y LOS ORGANOS FOCOS DE REBELION

MEXICO,まこいっto 25 AFP El bombardeo efectua- anuche cosa la costa Norte de la provincia de Havana, tuin combinado con desembarcos de co- indos del Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil Cu- no, en la Provincia de Pinar del Rio, informaron hoy igentes de este Directorio, en México.

Refiriéndose a la operación efectuada anoche con- is capital cobana, Angel González y Modesto Váz- ez, que dirigen la sección de México del Directorio Ludiantil, surrstraron hoy los alguientes datos: embres del Directorio que están en exilio partieron che desde bases secretas, en varias embarcaciones, ra bombardear la costa Norte de la Provincia de La bana. Las contas lanzadas hicieron bianco en el Ho- "Rosita Homedu", y se escogió este lugar pur arr de se concentran los tecnicos rusos y checoslovacos han legarco a Cuba últimamente.

Al mismo otras unidades de miembros del ectorio desertuarruhan en la Provincia de Pinar del 1. mientras erudiantes del Directorio en La Habara evaban y se internsben en la Sierra del amuray, ea in Cordillera de. Los Organos y en la rra Cretai Campesinos y obreros en número toda- no determinado se han unido a estos estudiantes en mismos morales,

Gunzinz experilich que ha habido ye encuentros con! fuerzas castristas y que se han registrado bajas por bos lados, spero sin suministrar cifras. Añadió que no den dar datos sobre las fuerzas que desembarcaron que "sin bastante crecidas" y están al mmando de uno Jos estes del Directorio Estudiantil.

Seguidamente spregaron que según informaciones: lenian fueron muertos much.os de los técntees sovie- a que esten en La Habana, pero sin concretarse a más detalles. "Esperanica que esta operación sirva o canalizacos para que el pueblo cubano se subleve, › stala serio esperado por los cubanos que tre- in en la crangestinidad en el interior de Cuba y ha ficado algo asi como un "grito de guerra" para el intamiento contra Castro", prosiguió Vázquez.

Ninguno de los dos dirigentes quiso dar precisiones e las bases secretas de las cuales partieron las em- aciones que efectuaron el bombardero de La Ha- 1. pero in.d.caron que las armes y los barcos que an los cubancs que realizan tal operación son mu-

## Delegado de los estudiantes anticastristas
hace declaraciones sobre bombardeo a Cuba

El delegado Oficial en el Perú, del Director Revolucionario Estudiantil, Hoiando M. Fernandes, deciaró ayer "que la declaraciones formuladas por el Departamento de Justicia de Jog Estados Unidos sen impropies Improcedentes, ya que lo que se ha violado no es la Ley de Neutralidad de ce pais, sino: e Tratado de Rio celebrado por los cancilleres de la Organización de Estaios Americanos, el permutar en este Continente en primer lugar el propio Gobierno de los Estados Unidos que impunemen Al conocerse la noticia del bombardee la Habatia, el Direturto Raroluciona to dal of interde rio Estudiantil, or su dos Budu:

Como eta de esperar, toe ultimos sooo. tovimientus que se refrren al trasado. Cuba de altados y material beitro o muntats remilador burs sovieticos ha provocado is reacción energica de lea fuerzas contrarias al resinien de Castr munista en Cuba la que ha eresinado Ex, pues, la intervencion mallitar so bideo de tin hotri de la Heba el que se Lospedaban tullitares de pal. ers de detras de la Cortina de Hierro mado de un importante gruco de patrio Remus:10 Batu.

te tongin acceso a la Is'a del Cari. la que ha pretpliado ei altanenio be, haivus repletos de armas y hom ibres procedentes de una potencia ex-do l tracontinental."

Erambray. Como era logiro, lambsen. que tante que ocurrir, el Ciobierno de Castro een al En relación con las declaracionon viarto prophetto de enseñar a la oріза hechas por Robert Mac Closkey, cargado de Prensa del Departamento de Estado, Rolando M. Fernández dr- 10 constancia. "Que la Delegación del DRE en el Pera es la que no com prende de comas e Departamento de Estado se da cuenta de la actual luacon existente en ese Hemisfe rn- como consecuencia de la inter. vencion comunista en Cuba- formy. la semejantes declaraciones",

Para nosotros los cubanos -afirina el Delegado det DRE en el Perú la Literacion de Cuta de las garras del continental trata de desprestigiara llente accion armada inkiada por be hertzas que se le sеп Ел Пеgado dretr, incluso, en aneta. mente demap chos contra el cliado hotel habe to en peligro la vida de var.co Reiteraman la trasmontada de: Dis lanzada al aire desce el misze surio cubano, que hizo sarat liamanitentojas nacines del Muただき Litre sobre la situacion capa tro la luche frontal conte desった。 ma reto, las decisra..tesre Cuba erinunata vuirers certa lue tratatos de Defesa Cort.rental ro comumsme que la optime, ha estado mo el de Rio de Janeiros Carta de y estata sien pre por encima de cual esias acurren de Pic dri Do quier otra consideracion,jama potionem teral al pres es:arrinos dispuestos a entrar en una Jood Antonio Scherartia e peiftica de convivencia con los rojos, en marcha

Loe funcionarns aludidas dije que esa declaracion es exacta,; el Gobierno mirteamericano no en ningun momento conocimiento plan

En fuente norteamericana 10 que los dos embarcaciones involu das "presumiblemente están en eguss de los FF UU." No.: plió esta declaración. Prevtamme los funcionarios aiutidos Insincr que a su juicio elementos de la mada Cubana fueren responsables Blaque.

Agregaron que unidades cubanas estuvieron realizando Diobras recientemente y que en e. sado el DRE se ha atribuldo cre por actos en los que no tuvo pa:: pacića,

WASHINGTON, agosto 25- El Departamento de Justicia an:: hos que esta investigando para minar et la Ley de Neutralidad de Estados Umdos fe violaja en: cion con el ataque al iltoral d Habana ocurrido anoche, que a anunciado

Entretanto, el Departamento de tado negó categóricamente que habido "involucración o conocin to por parte de los Estados Un tespacio del. Incidente, en que r alexo el Primer Ministro cubare, del Castre, "beques armados" caron el litoral de La Habang furge de cañones,

La Lev de Neutralidad huble. do afectada en el caso de que expedición de curanos exilades hubiers salido de algún lugar de Estadca Unides para llevar a esa avettura en La Habana.

La ley prevé que semejantes ev Idiciones no pueden ser organiz en suelo de esta nación

Un organismo anticastrista, e! rectorio Revelacionario Estud (DRE) se responsabilzó een el : dente. Un portaver del DRE die dos peçurias embarcaciones de organismo participaron en el ata Una persona asenda con el r miento dije qe as embaresco partieren de las Batanis8.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# :

1932.-

El estaba solo en la calle, su sombra era el otro único ser que se movía. Violentemente iba de un lado a otro, como si no saliera de su distimia. A lo exhibía y calmosa antes, su voz se escapó por- fecta rate cuando gritó: "No ti-re más". Varios hombres situados en la red espera esta levantar a cgar rifen. Los rifleros tiraron en lo al- mancen en la salida. La victima tropezó y cayó. Luego los hombres pasaron por encima de él, aplastándole la cabeza.

- July Pert Phillipi,
  con buta, Isla anradifice.-

Este suceso parece un drío ilícito ocurrido bajo el régimen co- munista de Fidel Castro; o quizá bajo el de su protector, el Dicta- dor Fulgencio Batista. En realidad este incidente ocurrió hace casi 70 años atrás, durante el régimen de otro tirano cubano. La víctima era un estudiante, apresado por realizar actividades des común el gobierno, quien No deliberó en date filc, mientras trató de asegurar su brillantez, no cada nuevo en la era de las Antillas; tampoco lo era, el divisor.-

El paquete controles en la habana castrista, hace 15 días, fué obra de una nueva generación de estudiantes cubanos que no está de acuerdo con el gobierno. Estos estudiantes son aires del Direc torio evolucipiril.

El Directorio se formó durante los consiguientes días de fachada, con- tribuyó a derribar al dictador en 1933, asesinando al Jefe de la po- licía secreta y al Presidente del Templo. (Uno de los pocos fraca- sos, lo constituyó el intento de asesinar el propio achado, sirvién- do un túnel que iba a dar a un ce anterior, donde decalo pronunciaría un discurso íntegro). El directorío también se opuso al ex-ser- gento Batista, cuando tomó el poder en 1952. Encabezado por un estu- diante de derecho, Intacto José Antonio Echeverría, el Directorio llevó a cabo una serie de actos contra el dictador Batista, por toda la Isla, cooperando antaño con Castro, pero manteniendo su injeren- genacia.-

Tu acción más espectacular tuvo lugar en la tarde del 13 de marzo de 1957, en el palacio de Batista, en la Habana. Un camión llegó al Pa- lacio y de él saltaron 35 estudiantes, miembros del Directorio. Lanzando granadas de tono y atronando, tomaron de sorpresa a la Guar- dia del Palacio, tiraron abajo las puertas, y llegaron hasta el segun- do piso, antes de que muriera el último de ellos. Batista, tembloro- so y con pistola en mano, estaba en el tercer piso.

//..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

- 2 -

Cerca de la Universidad, Cheverría tocó una emisora de radio para llamar a "¡Revolución!", pero fue capturado por la policía, y fusilado. Hacía solo unos meses que él había ordo al Directorio. Su lema: "Los que están lentes coimos no tenemos ni madre y mataron al Directorio irrumpieron en la Soite. Continuara en la defensa del juicio de Inteligencia Militar de la Libertad -

Después de la huida de Batista, de Cuba, en 1958, los miembros del Directorio tuvieron divergencias con Castro. En el mes de febrero de 1959, estudiantes del Directorio llevaron a cabo la primer demostración contra el régimen comunista de Castro, un motin en La Habana, durante la colocación de una corona al Primer Diputado Soviético, Premier Anastas Mikoyan, ante el aumento a José Martí.

Dirigidos por el estudiante de derecho, Alberto Muller, de 20 años y de sociología, Juan Manuel Salvat, de 19 años; un grupo de jóvenes comunistas; Climaco Carlos Rafael Nouriet, ocupó una catedra universitaria.-

Los jóvenes volaron plantes generadoras de electricidad (su herramienta favorita la constituía una bomba recubierta con chocolate, que era fácil de transportar en el bolsillo, torven parte en el incendio que destruyó la tienda "El Encanto", en La Habana, usaron durante 3 meses una estación transmisora clandestina, desde donde salisa al ci- re en un programa de 15 minutos, tres veces por semana, utilizando la frecuencia de un canal de T.V. de La Habana, que se encontraba en des uso. El Directorio estuvo también envuelto en el plan relacionado con la invasión de la Bahía de Cochinos, pare sufrió consecuencias desastrezas: Muller, con órdenes de abrir un frente guerrillero en Herra Maestra, no vió ninguno de los prometidos abastecimientos que le enviarían por paracaídas; tampoco recibió la noticia de la invasión, por lo que él Limo bajo de la sierra para averiu ricar. Fue captarsic, y actualmente está preso en la Isla de ju condenado a 20 años de pri sión. aún así tiene suerte, el Directorio dice que entre 170 y 200 de sus miembros han sido fusilados luchando contra Castro.-

A pesar de sus victimas, el directorio es una de les rocas unidades efectivas, entre los 30 Spás, de grupos anticastristas sue trabajan dentro y fuera de Cuba. El mes pasado, Salvat y tres miembros in del Directorio, viejeron a Celsi sinki pora hostigar a la delegación castrista a que se encontraba alli, parti Licipando en el Festival Lundial de la Juventud, patrocinado por los rojos. Salvat fue golpeado por o de sus compatriotas comunistas.-

///...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

///

- 3 -

Hace dos semanas, Salvat y 7 hombres más, salieron en una lencha vieja, con un cañón de 20 mm. (que ellos compraron por 200 dólares), sobre la cubierta.

Luego Isidro contó lo que había ocurrido: un estudiante de ingeniería, de 26 años, que conoció la situación al momento de asumir, recientemente al Castillo del Morro.

"A las 9 p.m. vimos las luces de La Habana. Nos dirigimos directamente al Castillo del Morro, y dimos vuelta a la derecha. Contábamos con el hecho de que el radar estaba más alto que nuestra lancha, por lo que podíamos pasar por debajo. Llegamos a 250 yardas de la costa, frente al Hotel Rosita de Hornedo (donde se alojaban técnicos del bloque comunista).

Disparamos alrededor de 24 descargas. Hicimos fuego durante 7 minutos, nuestros proyectiles atravesaron las ventanas y los sitios de verdad. Los motores a toda velocidad, comenzamos a escapar, huímos. Los besucos unos a otros.

Luego disminuimos la velocidad, durante el tiempo del que se dolían. Todos llorábamos como niños. Acabamos sentándonos en el piso de la lancha, y lloramos".-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# H.
DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDIANTIL
jose antonio echeverria con tus ideas en marcha

Aug '62

## BRAZIL
The main campaign carried through by the Delegation was to move public opinion against the buildup of Russian troops in Cuba

A trip was made to Minas de Gerais accepting the invitation of the members of the University Faculty. Also a meeting was held and excellent relations with the Organizacion de Centros Culturales were established. This group has its branches througout Brazil.

Another trip was made to the State of Santa Catarina. Six conferences were given there and condemnations to the Cuban case were broadcasted through the radio.

During the trip we obtained the support of the Trim Floriamnopolitana of Secondary Students and of the Secondary and University State Unions. We enclose paper clippings.

Other activities carried through by the Delegation were:

a) A Mass at the Cathedral of Rio de Janeiro to commemorate the 8th of September

Publication of,

b) The pamphlet *Cuba Socialista*. (We enclose one copy)

c) A campaign in favor of the Cubans under political asylum at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana.

d) A strong campaign in protest for the execution of Manuel Quillot by the Castro regime.

![signature]

OH H ES UFGA 6140.

19-124-26/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# Fundador
JAIRO CALLADO
Diretora
MARIA INA VAZ

# A GAZETA

ANO XXIX

Jornal sem quaisquer ligações partidárias
Florianopolis Domingo, 26-de Agosto de 1962
NUMERO 7.179

Número avulso
CrS 10,00

"Fidel Castro traiciono la revolucion!"

Convidado pela direção da União | Direito na Pontificia Universidade declara o estudante cubano Benito Diaz
Catarinense dos Estudantes, en- Catolica da Guanabara. Lutou ati-
contra-se em nossa Capital, o estu- vamente contra o regime de Ful-
dante cubano Benito Diaz. gencio Batista participando da população. Apesar da bem arma Cuba, com a finalidade de garan- ta que foi condenado a 30 anos de te fazem-se coletas voluntári
O académico Roseno Duarte de Frente Estudantil Nacional, que da e terrível milícia, a luta contra tir o regime castro-comunista, mas, prisão: para todos os fins chegando-se e
Qere responsavel pria secção agrupava tanto estudantes secun- Fidel continua progredindo. Co- rotulados todos eles de técnicos, Além diso a classe operária cubatão a um desconto aproximado
"Noticons Universitarias" deste ma- dários como universitários. Após micios organizados contra o regi- os quais vivem confortavelmente na se viu privada do: direito de 25 ao mês.
tutino procurou ouvido a respeito a memorável vitória sobre Batista me são sempre dissolvidos pelas ar- intalados nas antigas mansões dos greve, direito de enfermagem por
da Rovolução Cubana, bem como continuou apoiando a Revolução mas sendo presos seus manifestan- latifundiários inclusive com carros nove dias, e 13.0 salário que vinha
da starão atual do regitne impos- durante dois anos. quando com- tes Contudo, é oportuno que se de luxo à disposição numa afronta percebendo há cinco anos. O regi
Mr Fidel Castro, resultando no preendeu que a mesma tinha sido destaque - prossegue - que essas ao bom povo de seu país. me castrista, impos ainda um des



traida em seus princípios. Daí mesmas milícias viram-se contra O operário cubano conto mensal obrigatório de 14
em diante parsou a lutar contra Castro quando têm oportunidade É lastimável as cor.dições do ope- des salários e qua se que diariamen

Quem é Benito Diaz de fazê-lo com êxito. rário cubano declarou nosso en.
Benito Diaz entrevistado, Quanto da chegada à Cuba de trevistado. Não possuem a mini
superiores na contingentes do exército russo dis- ma liberdade sindical sendo seu
Faruldade de Direito da Universe se que nada podia acrescentar órgãos de classe dominades pelos,
dade de Havana quando viu for- além daquilo que tem Itdo atra- comunistas, e seus legitimos lide
cado pelos acontecimentes a pedir vés de jornais. res, como aconteceu com David
obter aslo na embaixada brass- Frisou, porém, que quando de Salvador secretário-geral da Con-
mra em Havana, la permanecen- sua vinda ao Brasil, grande era o federação dos Trabalhadores de
do espaço de três meses, após número de russos, tchecos e chine- Cuba e dirigente máximo da clan
que veio para nosso pais no dia ses que entravam diàriamente em destinagem operária contra Bati
28 26 março deste ano.


Como são realizados os
comicios
Os famoses comicios de Fic
Castro, são de fato muito conc
ridos, pois para tanto são convic
(Continua na 5.a pág.)
Conta 20 antes de idare e conti
rua atualmente seus estudos del
tes e atentados pessoais.

Cuba: Situação atual
Respondendo primeiramente,
qual a situação atual de Cuba, de
clarou-nos Benito Diaz, que o racio
namento de vivereste gêneros de
primeira necessidade é constante,
provocando com isso muitas de
sorderas e descontentamento


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# Fidel Castro...

(Continuação da La página) dre todos os operanos. Aquele que não aceita tal convite é tido como contra-revolucionario sofrendo as consequências de seu ato. É claro que a grande materia prefere ouvir as demagogias de seu falso lider a ter que enfrentar el pare-dont

Resultados positivos da Revolução

Indagado dos resultados poettivi-vos da Revolução Cubana respondeu que a mesma conseguiu despertar o povo latino-americano para seus problemas.

Diase que as desapropriações e nacionalizações das empresas e companhias americanas de nada resolveram, pois apenas trocaram de patrão, passando para os russos.

Sobre o ataque de Playa Girón

"Grande érto que não tevia ter sido cometido, pois destruiu completamente a clandestinagem mesmo porque, não era o momento propicio. Mal preparados militarmente, não consideraram as tropas de Fidel. O próprio povo cubano foi colhido de surpresa pela invasão, pois não esperava".

Afirmou Benito, que não se precisará de nova invasão, pois Fidel Castro não permanecerá por muito tempo no poder.

Diretório Revolucionario Estudantil

O que é DRE? Explicou-nos o estudante cubano: "O Diretório Revolucionário Estudantil - DRE - é o reprezentante da opinião e do sentimento dos estudantes cubanos e por esta causa far questão de levar ao conhecimento de todos os estudantes e povos da América Latina o que está acontecendo de verdade na minha terra. Emtodos os países de governo democrático de nosso continente temos representantes. No Brasil somos em seis quatro no Rio e dois em São Paulo".

Fez questão de acentuar que a DRE não é contra-revolucionária, mas, sim revolucionário contra a traição comunista!

Terminando suas declarações, pediu ao reporter que transmitisse aos estudantes e povo catarinenses o seu abraço cordial, e a confiança de melhores dias para Cuba!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# O DRE de Cuba e o desembarque de tropas

## comunistas em Havana

"O. Diretono Revolucionário Es momento que as operários, os cam-porto de Mariel, na costa norte de
dantal de Cuba denuncia peran poneses, e os estudantes estão lu- Pinar del Rio, de 2.500 a 3.000 *téc
ovo de Santa Catarina o de tando e pondo em perigo a conti- nicos* com uniforme verdeescuro,
Embarque de cerca de 10 mil sol nuidade do regime comunista de casquete branco, mochilas, fuzil
des do bloco comunista manda traidor Castro. Entre os dias 26 metralhadora: 2 mil de aspecte
thammar per Fidel Castro neste e 31 de julho desembarcaram no asiático ou coreano entre e 9 de

![logo of A Gazeta]

Florianopolis, Quinta Feira, 30 de Agosto de 1902

Também em Matanzas ocorreu tonio de Los Banos em Havana, Cuba por soldados comunistas. O
um desembarque sobre o qual não Com todos estes desembarques de O D.R.E. de Cuba faz-um apêl:
ha outros detalhes. As informações soldados estrangeiros a serviço do ao povo de Santa Catarina, para
recebidas indicam que as tropas imperialismo soviético, que dirão que expresse ao conselho de se
invasoras estão localizadas em os defensores da *"auto determina gurança* da OEA sua condenaçã
Gustana, antigo campo de tiro en
tre os quilômetros 7 e 8 da estra
da que vai de Pinar del Rio ao
porto de La Coloma. Em San Ju
lão de Cuba*? Possivelmente cala O D.R.E. faz um apélo a juver
rão e não reconhecerão que neste tude catarinense, a todo o povo de
momento a verdadeira auto deter Santa Catarina para que não per
minação do povo de Cuba está em mita que Cuba seja uma nova Hun-
lan, onde nem a entrada de Der perigo. Não reconhecerão que o
midio Escalona, chefe militar de povo cubano continua lutando pe
Pinar del Rio é permitida; na Cor la sua liberdade. Continua lutan
dilheira dos Orgãos, perto de Ca do contra homem que traiu a re
bana; na Costa norte de Pinar del volução cubana, a verdadeira Re
Rin, entre os portos de Ba Santa Lú volução Cubana. E néste momento
cia e Esperanza e entre o de Sants a América Latina não pode per
Lúcia e Dimas, em Torrens e Li-manecer calada ante a invasão de
monar, nas provincias de Havana
agosto no pôrto de Casilda, na cos
ta sul de Las Villas, Chegaram em
jipes e caminhões, trazendo ca
nhões e ambulâncias-hospitais; en
tre 28 e 31 de julho aportaram em
Danes na costa norte de Oriente,
e Matanras: em La Cayuga, no
500 homens, a 7 de agosto no parto aeroporto subterraneo de San An
de Havana 2.000 russo
afogados ésses gritos de revolta do
povo cubano pela sua auto deter
minação.

De vocês depende néste momeur
to que Cuba seja Livre !

Benito Díaz, Delegado".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# Página 6

Os Estudantes Cubanos

# Morrem no Século XX

Pela Liberdade

MANUEL GILIOT

JGLILIOT.

TO DEE.
AFORIAND

PANILE

GIER LAN

AUTODET

O ENGLER

PUCC

JORNA

CFC.


---

9-9-1962

# CONCHA ACÚSTICA NA PUC

![photo of people at Concha Acústica da PUC]

Foi inaugurada, quinta feira última, com a presença de várias autoridades, representantes de entidades estudantis e colegas da Guanabara, a primeira concha acústica do Rio,
A PUC, que foi a contemplada, por assim dizer, com este pouco indispensável às atividades artísticas e culturais da Universidade Católica, demonstra de que serão as atividades neste setor nos próximos anos, coincidindo a memória da primeira sinfónica do Corpo de Bombeiros para a cerimônia de abertura.

Na foto, um aspecto dessa cerimônia quando, representante da União Nacional de Estudantes - fala o presidente da entidade.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# Entrevista Exclusiva Com Eduardo Muniz

- Qual o motivo de sua viagem por todos os países da América Latina?

- Coordenar ao máximo o trabalho que vim realizando em delegados do Diretório Revolucionário Estudantil, ao lado dos estudantes latino-americanos nesta etapa decisiva de nossa luta.

- Quais são os planos insurrecionais do DRF para derrubar a Tirania, e que importância teve a ação levada a cabo no dia 24?

- Primeiramente, dividimos nossa luta em dois campos de vital importância: dentro de Cuba e no estrangeiro; enquanto, no interior do país, preparam-se as circunstâncias precisas para o levante das massas, através ações de sabotagem nas cidades e incremento das guerrilhas nas montanhas; no estrangeiro levantamos, diante uma campanha de esclarecimento, que contribui para que ganhemos adeptos, que nos auxiliem moral e materialmente. Assim seremos da luta se o povo decidir quando tenhamos as condições necessárias. Lograremos o triunfo com o desembarque de forças expedicionárias, armadas na mesma proporção em que o estão as tropas de Castro; este desembarque será efetuado em coordenação com os elementos da clandestinidade, que conduzirão o povo: as forças castristas se encontrarão entre dois fogos e esse será o começo do fim.

- Quais os resultados do ataque do dia 21 de agosto ao quartel cubano?

- Em primeiro lugar, logramos que se produzisse, sem maiores dificuldades, o ressurgimento de nossa resistência na Serra de Escambray, ao se distraírem os esbirros de Castro com o ataque ao quartel; em segundo lugar, serviu para fazer lembrar aos estudantes de Cuba que não se conformarão diante da já consumada invasão soviética da nova ilha, e, e bem que a localização de Brigadas Internacionais em Cuba colloca a libertação em mãos de organismos internacionais, não será por isso que cruzaremos os braços, embora os esperemos com uma: nossa luta é sem quartel, e nela deixaremos até o último gemido de nossa existência.

- O que nos pode dizer quanto à posição dos FEU, em relação a Cuba?

Sinceramente, devo dizer que não estranhamos a atitude de coexistência pacífica por eles assumida com respeito a Cuba, pois que indicamos que essa visão foi errada para com muitos povos da América Latina: isso no entanto, confirmamos em que modificarão essa posição e o mesmo dizemos de outros países da América Latina, que se mantém em plano idêntico.

- Como é que vocês se intitulam: Revolucionários? Contra-Revolucionários?

- Esta pergunta, companheiro, é quase uma insinuação de que somos Contra revolucionários:: nada mais falso, ja que somos militantes do Diretório Revolucionário Estudantil.

> [Figure: Eduardo Muniz, um lado de Carlos Valdes delegados no Rio de Janeiro, no aeroporto do Galeão]

*   **A UNIÃO METROPOLITANA DE ESTUDANTES CONDENA A AGRESSÃO SOVIÉTICA CA A CUBA-MAIS DE 2000 ASSINATURAS APOIAM A DECLARAÇÃO DOS ESTUDANTES BRASILEIROS - A União Metropolitana de Estudantes, em vista das últimas informações referentes ao desembarque de tropas soviéticas em Cuba, não pode deixar de protestar ante essa atitude russa que está praticando e oprimistas, estudantes de Cuba e revelia de um tratado que o próprio representante da classe estudantil, em um debate de horas, manifestava**

*   **NOSSA BANDEIRA**

*combatendo a Tirania Batistiana, seguindo os ideais daquele que foi então o líder do Diretório Revolucionário, o Mártir Universitário José Antônio Echevarria. Não somos somente revolucionários quanto à ação, mas também quanto à ideologia. Quando lutamos contra Batista, tínhamos ideais bem definidos, sabíamos claramente que era necessária uma mudança radical das estruturas existentes: víamos com ânsias a implantação de uma Reforma Agrária, que proporcionasse uma distribuição mais justa das terras, proscrevendo o latifúndio, tecnificando a produção agrícola e recuária em todos seus aspectos, inspirando aos camponeses a criação de cooperativas, para evitar que se produza o fenômeno do minifúndio por meio de uma educação bem orientada e intensiva, para que as ditas cooperativas sejam única e exclusivamente dirigidas pelos camponeses que a formem, sem intervenção estatal, a não ser uma ajuda desinteressada de tipo econômico e técnico. Bem assim as demais reformas: educacional, urbana, fiscal, reforma de Emprego, e a instauração de um Salário Social de Rendimento. E, quanto a política no exterior, uma de total independência em nossas decisões, reafirmando nossa soberania e repudiando todos os totalitarismos, desde o soviético até os dos Samora, Stroessner, Salazar e Franco.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

26-2-1962 J.U. Página 3

# ACABAR COM A UNE, CONQUISTÁ-LA OU CRIAR OUTRA ENTIDADE?

O movimento universitário brasileiro se apre- senta na atual conjuntura dividido na tre- gua das correntes: aceitar com a UNE, conquistá- ou criar outra entidade.

O processo que muitos advogam para aca- bar com a UNE seria o desligamento em grau de escala dos diretórios acadêmicos. Simples mente passam a ignorar a União Nacional dos Estudantes, por a considerarem nefasta a vida universitária do país. Já não vivem mais os pes.

Esta parceira da opinião estudantis, da- tizada, bem intencionada, mas, compreen- der o mecanismo usado pelos totalitários para se perpetuartin no poder, comportam-se conto criain cas face a um aparelho indefectível. A primeira reação é quebra-lo ou deixá-lo de lado.

Outra cota não querem os atuais dirigentes da UNE in que continuem a ser os mesmos a explorar milhões que deve subir ens 1 bilhão, 2 bilhões e 400 milhões to o financiamento e temor Katifer Vahlia vis governador Bagner vêm apresentando de ataque, e chamar o dinheiro do povo em viagens, gastar esa política de entidades estudantis e outras com
nadas pelo, e conspirar, confirmar e vela o próprio relatório da UNE pre visto seu 1 Conselho Ordinário na gestão Aldo Ar les. Folim, continuar com a vida que pediram 20 bom detis totalitário. O estudante com dane: o fazê-lo e enriquecer com a política.

Os citados que defendem o reverendo puro e da UNE, (não tão inocente e ir responsável), que retoma a Urio Horizo dos E. Rimas não e propriedade de todo som da UNE. Por isto, una seja cubito daga para daceao o pesos totalitários que vivem de pobre idem dinheiro, demagogos e autoritários, de tence ao universitário..

Com politicos demagogos da UNE, Walter Maciel e os deterratas de Universidade Catolica.

Manifesto da Aliança Democrática Universitária Aos Colegus da PUC RJ

Alrario, já assolido para comete erros atuais die rigentesda UNE no pode.

Conquister novamente a União Nacional dos Estudantes para as verdadeiras causas da uni versalidade do komen e particularmente para ajudar decisivamente, através de uma apaima rada educação, o povo a livrare-se das amarras do subdesenvolvimento e do terrorismo que mais nos ameaça Carlosiente o retatamento da grande maioria dos estudantes, ora reno, que atualmente retoma a vergonha de veeam UNE esbanjar pretensiosamente o suor do pais pobre no visitas as mais vergonhosas, imita Icarambo o museu da elite ricas e das projeções fallas. Sentem a vergonha de regera a UNE o fazer representar com exclusividade para os cartórios do poder nos conciaves totalitários, propa rindo o terror entre os pequenos limitados da Habimaque. Sentem a vergonha de verem a UNE desrespeitar no deceita o suor e as fadigas de No manha Libra no espelho o grito agoniador da Gaviola quando faz pinelus com a derroada do Caboclo e Campineiro, no dizer ajunta to, do atracão, caso lhes desrespeitem no merecido silêncio ou o merecido silêncio.

Pela falta de participar dos diretórios, que não querem comparecer às assembléias, para eleger o presidente do seu diretório ou para im pedir a mesma a paralisação da vida universi tária, que o movimento estudantil deturpado se transforma na donosia galinha Co, de caso croakeciria. un 1962, COIND UNE.

Os tagames comodistas, que não comparem as reuniões do seu diretório, da qual fazem e in critério tire como, são o pretexto pals responder pela delação dos diretórios acadêmicos para o desume plata Cara da majera e da des norasin como alt Vaul drvida a capitale m tre punarânico do calidantes. Ar Leeiro. E prua que o Sono Valt viva Faculdade Nacional de Ciencias Economi para ter uma ideia do conceito de aus.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# 14-00000

# 18

otadmobiliza guial

ria-
de da

![image] levam a repetir todas as formas de ilusionismos que são, sim, verdadeiras alianças.

![image] Especialmente o ciumento principal a especial merece da noite eterna de trevas, de humanos e de seus direitos fundamentais.

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image] - Meninos que totalitarismo, para teres forma politica.

![image] - Que universitários esperem de justa aplicação de uma lei rima com dogma de terra.

![image]

![image] - F. Puthar, para que a hora critica.

![image] ALIANÇA DEMOCRÁTICA UNIVERSITÁRIA, que olha para os gin. Ditecia e na dignidade humana

![image] - Furtea de Andrade Neves Filho

# LEVANTE EM CUBA

O Diretório Revolucionário Estudantil em Cuba, anunciou que ás 21:30, hora local, do dia 24 de agosto, o Comando Martiíng do Diretório Revolucionário sediado em Cuba, bombardeou o Hotel Rosita Hornedo e o Teatro Blanquita, próximos ao mar, onde se encontravam médicos e russos chegados recentemente a Havana para reforçar as tropas fidelistas.

Ocorreu também um Levante dos Comandos de Resistencia nas serras de Escambiav.

Foi distribuído clandestinamente um manifesto concitando o povo à revolução.

militante em inte
racionário vivem situações no mais em tempo atuais, que os dias que atravessam, nos além de estudar, exigir que lutem para construir um porvir cabindo. O que exige e merece imenso é o preço da liberdade.

Este grupo simplesmente abandona a ilha, apesar de vontade e vitalidade para lutar, mas liderando a UNE unencilvel, apesar de o cundi dantes horas da Alemanha continuarem, no intervalo entre uma aula e outra, atirando uc pedradas no muro da vergonha, as portarias alhearias aos professores também nos inter valos das aulas, para lutar pela democracia.

A corrente advoga o desligamento dos diretórios acadêmicos para a posterior elei ção de uma entidade amicamente democrática, capaz de fazer frente a União Nacional dos Estudantes, mesmo sem possuir 1 bilhão e utilizando processos miúdos, para assim ganhar da mesma forma que a do ano anterior, a não ser que o atual presidente da UNE, Kataoka, disponha-se a entender de alguns, a proscrever o conceito de honestidade de que vota entre o se caderno de lado, independentemente de querer posterior-se firme na proteção de e que foi frita e enfrentar as aras do Partido Comunista, rogando-se a comportar.

Esta corrente, quase tão de politicas quan to à prosa, não explica como criar uma entidade, impedir a infiltração da mesma, participar no ensino movimento universitário. Falam em criar uma entidade sem saber era como manter-se, arroximetar estudantes, politiza-los, impedir que a minoria domine a dire tórios residentes e o que é fundamental, aca

![image] é um grande problema, que não vou minucioso congresso da UNG vote em agora no desligamento, esvaziando o organismo, a UNE, forto

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

![image]

bar com a imoralidade existente na UNE em nome do estudante e em prejuízo da nação. Com a mesma boa intenção da primeira corrente, consideram a UNE propriedade de se vangiar enquanto o povo passa fome.

Esta porcela dos estudantes o totalitários também não temem e sabem perfeitamente que a tentativa não dá em nada, muito menos em nova entidade. Sido preconizado sequer utilizar a violência e o terrorismo, como se tocou-me Quitandinha, para derrota-lo. Afinal de contas, sabem na UNE que se diaxon alquim UN tempo fabricar iam tolerários todo os apertrechos tecnicamente necessários, devendo muito mais educar um ser humano. Ela oposição de criar outra entidade é, como a primeira, inútil e sem sentido para o movimento uni

# NOS Bastidores

### 26-8-1932

![image] Isto leve a bleito seu quantmya como é clas apres new

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

D.
R.
E.
DE
CUBA
![logo of Cuba Socialista]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# CUBA SOCIALISTA

"A palavra é para dizer a verdade, não para rucobertá-la."

*JOSE MARTI*

I N D I C E

Palavras Inicials

O primeiro Encontro Nacional de Produção

Mas o que sucedeu com as promessos?

Pior que os escravos da Colónia

Uma sentença "Económica'

Tudo isso, Por Que?

A Economia, Talvez, mas a Liberdade, Não

O Profissional não tem Liberdade

O Estudante não tem Liberdade

O Camponés não tem Liberdade

O Operario não tem Liberdade

Em Cuba ninguém tem Liberdade

Conclusões Finais

Epilogo

DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO ESTUDANTIL DE CUBA

Rio de Janeiro, G. B. Caira Postal 3996


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# PALAVRAS INICIAIS

Na primeira publicação feita por esta delegação do "Directorio Revolucionário Estudantil de Cuba" no Rio de Janeiro, G. B. *BASES PARA UMA REVOLUÇÃO LATINOAMERICANA*, a contamos uma posição ideológica a respeito dos critérios que pretendem orientar o desenvolvimento econômico, social e político de nossos países. Já sendo conhecido nosso pensamento a esse respeito pelos estudantes e pelo povo brasileiro, agora nos propomos a lhes trazer informações concretas sobre o que ocorre presentemente em nossa pátria.

Foi implantado em Cuba um regime marxista-leninista, comumente chamado comunista. Isso não é novidade, porque todos o sabem. Seu líder máximo teve que mentir muito até chegar a tal ponto; teve que trair a todo um povo.

Não vemos aqui analisar a espécie de traição de que fomos vítimas; em outra ocasião, será analisada devidamente. Vamos demonstrar que o regime marxista-leninista introduzido em Cuba não conseguiu realizar a prosperidade e nem levar à liberdade, mas sim à miséria e ao terror.

Vamos citar palavras dos dirigentes comunistas cubanos e suas próprias leis. Discursos e leis estas que qualquer comunista tem... mas que não querem divulgar como o fazem ao propagar os ensinamentos de Marx e Levine. Tão terrível é, portanto, o comunismo que nem as suas promessas doutrinas e realizações pode revelar.

Vamos esquematizar apenas tudo o que se passa em Cuba, apresentando novamente a legislação revolucionária e os discursos de Fidel Castro, de Guevara, e outros.

VAMOS MOSTRAR O QUE REALMENTE SE PASSA NA "CUBA SOCIALISTA"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# O Primeiro encontro Nacional de Produção

No sistema comumista implantado em Cuba por Fidel Castro e seus camaradas, seguem-se ao pe da letra as práticas dos partidos comunistas de todo o mundo. Uma delas consiste nas reuniões de autocrítica entre todos os membros participantes de uma determinada atividade do Estado comunista.

A baixa do nivel da produção, o aumento dos preços, a qualidade inferior dos produtos, o aumento exorbitante dos custos da produção, o fechamento de indústrias e os deficits enormes das chamadas Industrias Consolidadas - tudo isso, produto do plano de industrialização do Ministério de Indústrias, controlado por Ernesto Guevara -- obrigou o estado maior comunista cubano a convocar uma reunião de todos os elementos que intervem no processo de produção.

Entre os dias 26 e 27 de agosto de 1961, com dois anos e nove meses de governo revolucionário, no Teatro Blanquita de Havana, localizado em Miramar, os "lideres da indústria cubana" estiveram reunidos, analisando o fracasso de seus planos e o éxito conseguido na destruição das principais fontes de riqueza de Cuba.

Os jornais, controlados pelo regime, reproduziram aspectos de tais reuniões, transmitidas pelo rádio e pela televisão, mas as quais quas ninguém prestaría atenção, por já estar acostumado demais a tais "shows". Ao ser publicada a matéria relativa a esses encontros, evitou-se a menção a todos os insultos e recriminações que os "camaradas" fizeram ao tentar cada um sair mais "limpo", mas foram tantos os insultos que a censura não pode policiar a todos.

As expressões de Fidel Castro e de "che" Guevara aqui vão citadas, (1) e delas se deduzem muito bem as "grandes" conquistas rea lizadas no processo da industrialização de nosso pais, e que se constituem numa das bases da propaganda do regime para a America Latina

(1) Diario "Revolución" 28 e 29 de Agosto 1961

---

# EIS AS EXPRESSJES PROFERIDAS POR ERNESTO GUEVARA, MINISTRO DAS INDUSTRIAS:

"Não se realiza nenhuma das metas assinaladas para a produção. Apenas uma em cada das quarenta Empresas Consolidadas conseguiram isso".

"Na Enpresa Ciusdintada do Fosifto, esse produto é uma das maiores vergonhas que temos a registrar no Ministério das Indústrias".

"A verdade e que os refrigeros tem o sabor de algo que não se sabe muito bem o que é... A Coca-Cola, que era o mais tomado, tem un gosto de Naranja de dose".

"Todos estamos enfrentando a falta de garrafas. Ela se faz sentir tanto para os refrescos como para os vidros utilizados nos laboratórios médicos e apresenta-se também para o leite, em alguns momentos".

"Isso quer dizer que havia uma série de industrias que estavam se ressentindo da falta de vasilhames adequatus e as fábricas de vidro permaneciam paradas muito provavelmente por falta de capacidade".

"Não é nada bem, por exemplo, haver sabão em Havana e não haver no campo, devendo ser o produto distribuído de tal forma que não haja falta em parte alguma".

"No caso da borracha, houve insuficiência nos comiços de ano. Houve ausencia de papelão e de sacos de papel, em momento determinado. Ha atualmente esassez de pastas para dentes. É necessário ser pontualizada a razão. Há quatro meses que se vem verificando parali zação do fabrico e se tornou ainda providencia urgente, como seria de desejar".

"Se bem que não tenham sido muitas as indústrias paralisadas, o ritmo da produção tem sido mais lento do que era previsto".

"A escesso de saves concentrados traduce una falta de previsão dos companheiros da INRA na planificação de sua produção dos suchs de Laranja".

"A "Antihistamínico de Aço" foi obrigada a parar".

"E verdade que o Ministério do Comercio Exterior cometeu erros e que alguns deles se custaram paralização, mas não é menos verdade que houve ausência total de pressão por parte da maioria dos diretores de empresas".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59


"O crescimento da produção poderia ter sido mais intenso e a distribuição mais eficiente, se houvessem superado as falhas de organização postas em destaque no curso das exposições e discussões".

"NÃO PODEMOS CONVERTER NEM O IMPERIALISMO, NEM O AUMENTO DO CONSUMO EM "TOTI" (*), E PRETENDER QUE TUDO SEJA INCRIMINADO PELLO AUMENTO DO CONSUMO, PORQUE NÃO É EXATO".

EXPRESSÕES DE FIDEL CASTRO NO PRIMEIRO ENCONTRO NACIONAL DE PRODUÇÃO.

"Cada um de nós se encontra ante a circunstancia de fazer algo que jamais tinha feito antes, e dai toda a atual situação do pais, a reestruturação nacional, a sua administração terem caido entre mãos que não tinham experiência de tais trabalhos".

"No primeiro aniversário da Revolução havia abundancia de tudo, nada faltava e os ármazéns andavam abarrotados".

"Já existem munitas obras projetadas e falta cimento, faltam vergalhões de ferro e não há o material necessário para começa-las".

"Além de tudo, esse primeiro encontro está cheio de deficiências de organização".

Ser mais claro não é possível. Ai está o desastre na boca dos próprios lieleres. Bem como a necessidade de consertar un peu as coisas, con umas tantas promessas. Por isso Castro prometeu que em dezembro de 1961 estaria solucionado o problema do abastecimento de aves em Havana; a partir de janeiro de 1962, a produção de cereais superaria todas as necessidades do mercado nacional, em junho de 1962, a produção do pescado atingiria as necessidades do consume; a 1.º de fevereiro de 1962, estaria abolido o racionamento de banha de porco, clc., etc.

Mais uma vez ficaria comprovado que o Socialismo Económico é uni "sistema de futuro"...

(*), *Toti, pdsoro tropical cubano.*
*"A culpa do toti", frase popular cubana, usada para encerrar os discuss6es.*

-- 6 --

Mas o que sucedeu com as promessos?

A 12 de março de 1962 foi promulgada a lei n.º 1015, (2) que diz o seguinte:

*"16/0 sobre a melhor distribuição do abastecimento".*

Art. 1.º -- Com o objetivo de conseguir melhor distribuição no abastecimento do consumo corrente, cria-se uma Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Géneros.

Art. 2.º -- A Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Géneros será integrada por um representante do Instituto Nacional da Reforma Agrária, um representante do Ministério das Indústrias, um representante do Ministério do Comércio Exterior, um representante do Ministério do Trabalho, um representante do Comité Executivo da Central dos Trabalhadores de Cuba, um representante dos Comités de Defesa da Revolução e um representante da Federação das Mulheres Cubanas.

Art. 3.º -- São atribuições da Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Géneros: a) organizar, com prévia consulta ao Conselho de Ministros, a lista de artigos de consumo que, por motivos justificados, devem ser submetidos a um racionamento local ou nacional; b) determinar, com audiência prévia do Conselho de Ministros, o regime de racionamento que se deve adotar com relação a cada artigo, assim como as quantidades dos mesmos que devam ser distribuídas entre a população; c) determinar, com prévia consulta ao Conselho de Ministros, as retificações relativas que devam ser feitas no que diz respeito ao abastecimento da indústria privada e estatal e do comércio de géneros de primeira necessidade, privado e estatal, dos produtos submetidos ao racionamento; d) organizar, com prévia audiência do Conselho de Ministros, o sistema de racionamento e fiscalização de de sua execução, assim como determinar os organismos estatais e populares (?) que devam participar da execução e fiscalização desse regime de racionamento; e) sugerir ao Conselho de Ministros quantas medidas ache oportunas para a melhor execução do racionamento.

Art. 4.º -- Revogam-se as disposições degals e regulamentares em contrário à presente lei, a qual começará a vigorar a partir de sua publicação na *"Gazeta Oficial"* da República

(2) Corrio El Mundo 13 de Março 1962

-- 7 --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

PORTANTO Mando que se cumpra e execute a presente em todas as suas partes.

Palácio da Presidencia, en Havana, a 12 de Marco de 1962

Oswaldo Dorticos Torrado
Presidente
Fidel Castro Ruz
Primeiro Ministro
Maximo Berman Berman
Ministro do Comércio Interior

Nessa mesma noite, Fidel falou com amargura e anunciou o pri- Sinni racionamento. Disse que "a situação põe à prova a capacida- da Revolução e dos revolucionários. Nem tudo são rosas. Há também espinhos no caminho".

Anunciou que se adotariam medidas drásticas contra os especula- dores. "Se for necessário chegar ao paredão contra os especu- ladores, chegaremos ao paredão".

Disse também, como de costume, QUE A CULPA DE TUDO CABE AO IMPERIALISMO NORTEAMERICANO e que "é di- fícil construir o paraíso", mas "a grande tarefa revolucionária é con- truir para o futuro...".

No dia seguinte, entrava em vigor a primeira Resolução da Junta Nacional para Distribuição dos Gêneros, que é a seguinte:

POR QUANTO: O Conselho de Ministros baixou, com a data de 12 de março de 1962, a lei n.º 1015, criando a Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Gêneros, encarregando-a de propor ao mesmo Con- selho de Ministros todas as medidas condizentes à melhor distribuição do abastecimentos dos artigos de consumo corrente;

MINISTERIO DE COMERCIO INTERIOR

![photo of Fidel Castro and others]

Enquanto a "Nova Classe" come e bebe...

LIBRETA DE CONTROL DE ABASTECIMIENTOS

![Patria o Muerte Venceremos sign]

![Coat of arms] CON LA GUARDIA EXALTO

... o povo passa fome.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# 14-00000

POR QUANTO -- Con a data de 13 de março de 1952, ficou devidamente constituida a Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Géneros.

POR QUANTO -- Cumpre por execução a lei n.º 1015, no que diz respeito à melhor distribuição do abastecimento.

POR TANTO - No uso das atribuições que lhe são conferidas pela lei n.º 1015, esta Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Géneros, com prévia audiencia ao Conselho de Ministros,

RESOLVE:

PRIMEIRO:-- Declarar os seguintes artigos de consumo, sujeitos ao racionamento em todo o territorio nacional: a) banha de porco; b) azeite vegetal; c) arroz; d) feijões de todos os tipos.

SEGUNDO:-- Declarar, além disso, os seguintes artigos sujeitos ao racionamento no território da Grande Havana, que compreende os municipios de Havana, Guanabacoa, Regla, Marianao, Santiago de las Vegas e Santa Maria del Rosário e as ciudades de Pinar del Rio, Artemisa, San Antonio de los Baños, Bauta, Guines, Cardenas, Matanzas, Colón, Santa Clara, Sagua la Grande, Cienfuegos, Sancti-Spiritus, Caibarien, Trinidad, Camaguey, Ciego de Avila, Flórida, Morón, Santiago de Cuba, Holguin, Victoria de las Tunas, Bayamo, Manzanillo Guantanamo e Palma Soriano: a) sabão de roupa; b) detergentes; c) sabão de banho; d) pästa para dentes.

TERCEIRO:-- Declarar, por último, além dos artigos compre-endidos nos parágráfos primeiros e segundo, os siguientes generos sujeitos ao racionamento no território da Grande Havana: a) carne de boi; b) frango; c) peixes; d) ovos; e) leite fresco de vaca, leite condensado e leite evaporado; f) banana da terra, batata doce, mandioca, aipin, cabaça, batata e inhame.

## A QUANTIDADE DOS RACIONAMENTOS

QUARTO:-- Os artigos acima relacionados serão distribuidos nas seguintes quantidades: a) 920 gramas de gordura comestivel, azeite ou banha de porco, por pessoa, ao més, em todo o território nacional; b) 2,700 gramas de arroz por pessoa, ao mes, em todo o territorio nacional; c) 6,210 gramas de feijão de qualquer tipo, grão-de-bico, ervilhas e lentilhas, por pessoa, nos próximos nove meses, em todo o território nacional, distribuidas mensalmente.

-10-

Para as mercadorias reguladas no território da Grande Havana e ciudades acima relacionadas na seguida parte distribuir-se-á: a) um barra de sabão de roupa, por pessoa, ao mes; b) uma porção imediata de detergente por pessoa, ao més, ou uma porção grande para duas pessoas de cada familia, ao mes; c) um pedaço de sabão de afeite por pessoa, au mes; d) um tubo de pasta dentifricia, para cada duas pessoas ao mês ou um tubo gigante, cada quatro pessoas ao mês.

Para os artigos racionados no território da Grande Havana: a) 3,450 gramas de carne de boi, por pessoa, por semana; b) 1 frango de 420 gramas por pessoa, ao mes; c) 2,310 gramas de pescado com espinhas, lavado e em posta, por pessoa, cada 15 dias; d) 5 ovos para cada pessoa, ao mes; e) 1 litro de leite diário para cada criança menor de 7 anos, e 1 litro diário para cada 5 personas ou crianças maiores de 7 anos, ou o equivalente a 6 latas de leite condensado ou evaporada ao mês; f) 1,610 gramas de legumes por semana para 1 pessoa, distribuidas segundo as determinações desta Junta; g) 920 gramas adicionais de legumes semanais, para cada criança que não tenha completado os 7 anos de idade; e h) 0,125 gramas de manteiga por pessoa ao mes.

QUINTO:-- No caso de pessoas que sufram de enfermidades que exija, obedecer-se-á às disposições que ditara inmediatamente esta Junta.

SEXTO:-- Para a organização do racionamento, distribuir-se-á mmm- "Caderneta de Controle do Abastecimento", publicada pelo C. D. R. no ponto mais próximo ao local de sua residencia. No caso de uma familia não receber, no momento oportuno, a sua caderneta, devera reclamá-la no distrito do C. D. R. correspondiente à sua zona. A demarcação dos Distritos e a direção do órgão do C.D. R. serão divulgadas pela imprensa, no periodo da inscrição.

SÉTIMO:-- Entender-se-á por responsável pela familia a pessoa em cujo nome figura o recibi de casa na Reforma Urbana, ou for encargada da mesma no caso de ser proprietário do imivel.

OITAVO:-- Para comprovar a sua condição de responsável pela familia, apresentará tal pessoa no respectivo Comite de Defesa da Revolução o último recibo que tenha sido abonado pela Reforma Urbana ou pelo convenio de pagamentos firmado com a Reforma Urbana, ou o último recibo que tenha pago do respectivo impisto, no caso de ser o proprietário


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# 14-00000

NONO: A pessoa que não possuir nenhum dêsses documentos comprovatórios fará constar esse fato no distrito a que pertença ao Comitê de Defesa e êste entregar-lhe-á provisoriamente a Caderneta, notificando à Reforma Urbana sôbre a situação anormal da referida família.

DECIMA: Nos casos das aldeias ou fazendas, assim como nos chamados bairros insalubres ("Las Yaguas", etc.), os distritos dos C.D.R. a que pertençam procederão a uma prévia e cuidadosa investigação na entrega das Cadernetas de Abastecimento.

DECIMO PRIMEIRO: Se houver numa casa mais de uma família, a pessoa identificada como responsável fará constar, sob juramento, o número de pessoas de que se compõe o seu núcleo familiar. Nêsse caso os C. D. R. procederão à entrega da Caderneta correspondente a cada família.

DECIMO SEGUNDO: Cada responsável por família inscrever-se-á no estabelecimento (super-mercado, botequim, açougue, aviário, posto de fornecimento de legumes) que preferir, dentro de sua localização. A inscrição será limitada por uma área cobrindo 4 quadras em qualquer direção. Se a prática aconselhar, nos mercados ou super-mercados e em outros estabelecimentos análogos, estabelecer-se-á uma zona mais ampla, determinando a Junta as normas necessárias.

DECIMO TERCEIRO: Se em qualquer estabelecimento o número de responsáveis por famílias inscritos fôr notoriamente superior à capacidade de operação do mesmo, o Ministro do Comércio Interior poderá dispor sôbre o limite do número de clientes, respeitando a ordem da inscrição. Nesses casos, o C. D. R. e o Ministério do Comércio Interior disporá sôbre a inscrição em qualquer outro estabelecimento, que acolhera o responsável por família dentro de sua zona de jurisdição.

DECIMO QUARTO: Os hotéis, casas de pensão, restaurantes, clínicas, colégios com internato, postos de fritas (*), etc. serão atendidos diretamente pelo Ministério do Comércio Interior. No caso dos hospitais e clínicas, o pessoal do mesmo não poderá consumir rações superiores às correspondentes ao resto da população, limitando-se aos benefícios da alimentação suplementar aos enfermos nêles internados.

DECIMO QUINTO: Quanto à regulamentação relativa às cidades mencionadas no artigo segundo desta resolução, assim como para a melhor distribuição das gorduras, do arroz e de outros artigos de racionamento, os C.D.R. e as delegacias provinciais do M.I.N.C.I.N. deverão coordenar com os comitês provinciais das O.R.I. e com os J.U.C.E.I. provinciais, e êstes submeterão à decisão da Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Gêneros qualquer sugestão que dessas consultas resultar para o melhor funcionamento da distribuição.

DECIMO SEXTO: A infração das disposições contidas nesta Resolução será sancionada com as penas previstas na lei.

Havana, 13 de Março de 1962. "ANO DA PLANIFICAÇÃO".

Junta Nacional para a Distribuição dos Gêneros.

(*) Postos de fritas: Posto de churrasquinhos, bolinhos de carne.

--12--

## Pior que os escravos da Colônia

Estão os cubanos fazendo História. Em 1842, sob o domínio espanhol, os escravos tinham, garantidos por lei e tradição, ao menos 280 gramas ao dia de carne ou bacalhau, 2,240 gramas de legumes, 140 gramas de arroz e 420 gramas de banha de porco. (*)

Em 1962 sob a dominação comunista, os escravos ou seja, qualquer cidadão que não pertença à classe dirigente... nem Fidel nem Porticos vão entrar na "fila", só tem direito por lei (o que também não quer significar que seja encontrado efetivamente nos estabelecimentos fornecedores)- 50.5 gramas de carne e 17.5 gramas de peixe por dia, 112 gramas de arroz, 280 gramas de legumes e 35 gramas de banha de porco.

Tudo isso foi o que conseguiu quem afirmou que "sem a satisfação das necessidades do homem não há nem democracia nem liberdade possível": "os homens são escravos de tôda espécie de misérias e, por isso, reclamamos um regime que liberte o povo de todo gênero de privações e explorações". [^3]

## Uma Sentença Econômica

No mês de abril de 1962, Castro condenou formalmente os frustrados invasores de Playa Girón a trabalhos forçados durante 30 anos, a menos que fôssem resgatados por um total de 62 milhões de dólares.

[^1]: Tomado do "Bando de 14 de novembro de 1843 do Governador Don Joaquin Ezpeleta.

[^2]: e José "Apuntes: Autógrafos Inéditos" de José Antonio Saco".

[^3]: Palavras de F. Castro no CMQ-TV 21 de Maio 1959

--13--


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# 14-00000

Não nos interessa analizar aqui a parte moral ou juridica da questão. (Basta dizer que todas as organizações revolucionárias cubanas rechaçaram tal proposta de negociação do Tirano):

f. interessunte frisar apenas a necessidade urgente que tem s commistas cubanos de conseguir dólares.

Explicação? Muito sutil. A sua maior fonte de divisas é a industria açucareira. Mas, a troca de compradores - C.S.A. pelo Bloco Socialista - teve resultados inteiramente negativos, apesar das declarações do atual Ministro das Indústrias, Ernesto "Che" Guevara, en março de 1960::

"FALA-SE EM DIMINUIR A COTA DE AÇUCAR CUBANO E MESMO SUSPENDE LA INTEIRA-MENTE. QUANTO ANTES MELHOR; PARA CUBA ERA UM SÍMBOLO DO COLONIALISMO. NOS NOS ARRUMAREMOS MELHOR SEM OS JUGOS IMPERIALISTAS".

Sirva como ilustração das consequências desta "lilertação do imperialismo o seguinte fato: em 1957, o total dos salários pagos aos trabalhadores, agricolas e industriais, no setor açucareire, subiu a 327 milhões de pesas (dólares), cifra que representava quase 50% do valor total da produção desse ano, e que era o resultado das conquistas devidas à Federação Nacional dos Trabalhadores Açucareiros (Os outros fatores da produção eram: os colonos empreiteiros agricolas - e os fazendeiros - empresários industriais -).

O valor total da produção açucareira vendida ao Bloco Socialista, segundo o Convênio que serviu de base para regular a safra de 1961, elevou-se a $320 milhões de pesos (4 milhões de toneladas a $ 0,04 28 40 gramas). Isso quer dizer que o total percebido pela safra vendida ao Bloco Socialista não chegou a cobrir o que era antes a participação de um só dos fatores da produção açucareira.

Além disso, essa quantidade paga-se, sobretudo, em mercadorias de má qualidade e não em dólares.

E como se isso fosse pouco, a safra (como todas as demais atividades do pais) foi bastante fraca. Em março de 62, afirmou "Che" Guevara, numa reunião de trabalhadores açucareiros: "A primeira afirmação a fazer é que a safra foi má".

-- 14 --

E afirmou que a seva afetou os canavtais, nus que a principal razão da baixa.da da produção foi o trabalho agricola e industrial mal feitos.

Depois de revelar que somente tres ou quatro das cento e sessenta usinas de açucar haviam conseguido as cotas previstas, acrescentou: "Trabalha-se com deficiencia no cumprintento das metas pré-estabelecidas". Segundo Guevara, a produção deste ano atingiu somente a 3 milhões de toneladas de açúcar bruto

Por último, revelou que em muitos pontos de território também foram queimados muitos cantviais

RESUMINDO:

*   Não foram criadas novas indústrias.
*   Algumas indústrias foram paralisadas
*   Diminuiu a produção.
*   Cain a qualidade dos produtos.
*   Ha necessidade urgente de divisas
*   O trabalho foi mal feito.
*   Há sabotagem,

Tudo isso por que?

Os marxistas apresentam dois motivos: o primeiro, as agressões do imperialismo ianque: o segundo, as dificuldades inerentes ao começo de toda Revolução.

Sobre o primeiro, deve-se afirmar claramente, e de uma vez por todas, que foi Fidel Castro quem, deliberadamente, procurou o apoio do Bloco Socialista e a inimizade dos Estados Unidos. E assim proceden com todo o cinismo, enquanto proclamava o contrario, fazendo-se de vitina.

A 17 de abril de 1959, em seu discurso perante a Associação Norte-Americana de Diretores de Jornais eni Washington, Fidel Castro declarou (em ingles)

Desejó explicar que não viemos aqui por dinheiro. É possivel que muitos outros governos tenham vindo aqui per dinheiro ro e muita gente crê que cada vez que um governo vem aqui vem por dinheiro.

-- 15 --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

Eu estava mais interessado na opinião pública do que no dinteiro. E não estava de acordo com que se corifundisse a tinajalide da viagem. [^4]

O antigo ministro da Fazenda cukano Ruto Lopez Fresquet declarou:

- Quando aompanhei Fidel a este pais em abril de 1050, o primeiro ministro me advertiu, quando sainos de Havana, jeira que não discutisse assuntos económicos cubanos com as autoridades, tampiros da capitalistas do Norte. Em diversos ocasiões, durante a viageni, Castro repetin a advertència. Esta é a razão por que, quando visitei a secretario do Tesouro, Robert B. Anderson, não respondi as indicaçõ oficiais de que os Estados Unidos eram favoráveis a prestar ajuela 20 nosso pais. Também por esta razão, durante nossa permanencia em Washington, quando troquei pontos de vista com o Subsecretário de Estado para Assuntos Latinoamericanos, Roy Rubottom, fingi uma inditerença cortes ante sua declaração concreta de que o governo dos Estados Unidos desejava saber como e de que forma paxleria cooperar CONI O governo cubaro na solução das necessidades económicas mais urgentes. [^5]

Outro dos peritos financeiros cubanos, o antigo presidente tar Banco Nacional de Cuba, Felipe Pazos, falou da reunião a que assistiram o subsecretário Rubottom, funcionários do Departamento de Estado e do Departamento do Tesouro, o Ministro da Fazenda cubano Lopez Fresquet, o Ministro cubano de Economia Regino Boti e o próprio. Os norte-americanos, que haviam tomado a iniciativa de convocar a reunião, pediram repetidas vezes aos cubanos que dissessem o que os Estados Unidos podiam fazer para ajudá-los economica e financeiramente. Atados pelas instruções de Castro, os culkanos si puderam responder que não necessitavam de ajuda e que não tinham nenhum pedido a fazer. Pazos passou pela mesma experiència no Fundo Monetário Internacional. O terceiro perito cubano, Dr. Ernesto Betancourt, fez as mesmas revelações.

Isto não quer dizer que negociações financeiras on economicas entre os Estados Unidos e Cuba teriam tido necessariamente um desfecho feliz. Significa, sim, apesar de una impressão contrária muito disseminada, que Castro nem sequer quis tentar a negociação. Poder-se-ia replicar que a revolução na qual pensava não podia ser apoiada

[^4]: Problemes of Journalism, Atas da Sociedade Norte-Americana d'e Diretores de Jaungis 1959 pag. 82

[^5]: The Times of Mevone, Miami, 15-17 de Setembro 1961

-- 16 --

pelos Estados Unidos, mas não é isso o que tem dito os propagandistas de Castro, que tem preferido a versão mais fantastica do Prof. Mills sobre a "iria acolhida" dispensauda, inclusive, a "pedidos de escassa importancia".

Muito mais hvido foi o "camarada" Ernesto "che" Guevara. Fidel leron mais, porém já poclaniou seu pensamento. E assim, a 13 de março de l'ol, declarou pomposanante: "Por isso, vista a questão de torça contra força, o poderio do imperi imperialismo e mu poderio decadente face ao da União Soviética, da Republica Popular da da China e dos paises socialistas".

> [Figure] A entrega de Cuba ao Bloco Secialista tem trazido feme e opressão ao povo cubano o que parece lazer rir a Fidel- Nikita unidos em Intimo abraça
> ![photo of Fidel- Nikita unidos em Intimo abraça]

E melhores ainda, mais cinicas e descaradas foram as declarações que circunstâncias internas levaram-no a expressar a 1.9 de dezembro de l'ol, [^6] "Acredito no Marxismo? Sim, creio no Marxisto! Acreditava o 1.° de Janeiro? Sim, acreditava o 1º de Janeiro (1959)!
Acreditava o 26 de Julho? Sim acreditava o 26 de Julho (1953)!".

[^6]: Falavras de F. Castro no CMQ-TV 1.º de Dezembro 1961

-- 17 --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# 14-00000

"Terei algunas dúvidas a respeito do Marxismo e entendo que algimas interpretações foram equivocadas, e será preciso reve-lav? Não tenho a menor dúvida sobre ele!".

"Algumas pessias tem me indagado se cu pensava, quando do ataque ao Quartel Moncada (6-7-53) como pensu hije".

"Quem quer que leia o que dizianios naquela ocasião vera... que se trata de um documento escrito com muita cautela Se o tivessemos escrito sens cuidado, se houvessemos lançado uin programa inais ra dicai... não teria conseguido a amplitude que teve e que tornou pas-sivel a vitória", "Não se puslerá esquecer jamais, a meu crédito, cos primeiros dias depois do triunfo os visitantes que chegavani a minha casa".... repugnava-me de verdade aquela procissão em torno de mim de toda aquela gente naquele dia. Bem, mas, em primeiro lugar, que estarão acas, acreditando? E cu dizia: os que acreditam, mellar. Quanto maior número acreditar que poolerá vir até ca e contar conosco, melhor! MAIOR SERA A SURPRESA QUE ELES TERÃO"!

Ei-lo ai, em suas próprias palavras. Marxista há muito tempo, ne-gou essa condição durante muitos anos e acredita que o bloco socialista está em ascenção do mundo e que a força do "imperialismo" está em decadencia com relação a ele.

Pois bean: o "pooleruso" Bloco Socialista, liderado por um grande pais, que conta com 45 anos de socialismo, não pode salvar a ecoño-mia culkana. Isso está sendo já demonstrado... com as leis e palavras dos próprios coniunistas cubanus.

## A Economia, Talvez, mas a Liberdade, Não.

Agora vanos proceder a concessões no campo da logica pura. E vamos conceder muito... Tanto como nem sequer Kruschov con-coderia... (E se não o acreditam, verifiqueni seu discurs, de março de 1962 – 45 anos de socialismo – sobre à agricultura na URSS). Vanios conceder que o problema economico possa vir a ser resolvido daqui a 100 ou 150 anos... Mas o que não se pode solucionar é a falta le liberdade; e com isso passamos ao segundo argumento.

As dificuldades inerentes ao inicio de toda revolução – consequência da eliminação da oposição da Direita – não foranı grandes.

Isso foi reconhecido pelo próprio Fidel Castro. (7)

"O Cosiumismo cobica a eristade de um setor e a guerra de clase. Nós queremos a união de takes os setores e de todas as condivies simplesmente porque devrimis pourar colaboração em todos os setores da vida social. E issa ja onseguimos, contando a Rewar entre 10 e 95% do powe, pois o priva de nada e nada the exige e em dúvida adota leis profundamente revolucionarias".

O Povo, de fato, apoio Castro el seu programa.

![photo of a group of people in simple clothing, possibly farmers or laborers, standing or walking together in a rural or impoverished setting]

Encontran-se nas mais intimes cenades. (note-se o lixo chão, e a falta de assalacia médico).

Mas o Povo, lago depois, devido a sua traição, se opos a Casini. E e por isso que se qireimani casas comerciais, indústrias e canaviais. Por isso, o trabalho è mal teito. Por isso, as prisões estão cheias. Por isso, é grande o mimeri de exiladus. Por isso, fuzila-se continui meute..

[^7] Palavras de F. Castro nao CMQ-TV 2130 Moo 1959

- 19 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# 14-00000

Sirva como fato esclarocher da yasinio do povo o éxodo dos messiviais. Dos 5 mil medicos que havia en Cuba atram do pais 1,200; dos 180 farmaceutions 800; des Aengenlwiros agronomws, 300; dos 180 contadores politives, 1,000; de NV cungrilwiros civis, 350; de 530 ingenheiros eletricistas AW.

Por que? Porque ningitem quer ser extani Siin, tal comio sia a pαlavra: ESCRAVO. Porque eni Cuba...

## O Profissional não tem Liberdade

![photo of people holding signs in a crowd]

QUE SE VAYAN
LOS COBARDES
Profesionaler
de Enformeria
QUINTA DE
DEPENDIENTES
Revolucionasia

Muitas Associações Profissionais foram tomadas à força, sem subterfugios legais de espécie alguma.

Exige-se um juramento de fidelidade ao regime. Torna-se dificil a saida do Lais para o que se é obrigado a negar a profissão no passaporte, out a refugiar-se numa embaixada estrangeira.

Milhares de prolissionais dignos têm abandonado o país, colaborando desta maneira ao enfraquecimento do Regime.

Por fim, as Associações Profissionais foram transformadas em "Aerolemias" e os lindos e abrigos, suspensos.

Se se acredita que os profissionais são os "menos mal" tratados pelo regime vigente, pela necessidade que tem deles pouler-se-a formar uma ideia de como terão sido tratados os setores restantes do trabalho.

## O Estudante não tem Liberdade

Nos centros oficiais, forston substituidas as Associações Estudantis pela "Asociación de Jóvenes Rebeldes", organização militar juvenil que teve a sua origem na "Juventud Socialista", generosanente dissolveda "em sacrificio da unidade revolucionária.

![photo of a crowd of students]

Brigadas Universitarias. Hoje em Cuba, o estudante só tem "o diretto" de desfilar uniformizado.

Esta A.J.R. conseguiu precisamente a opostocida progaila castrista: CONVERTER ESCOLAS EM QUARTEIS, cutronizando a cosição fisica nos centros de estudos.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

A.A.J.R.. além disso, serviu de transição. A 13 de março de 1961, em reunião declarou que deveria mudar seu nome para "A.J.R.-JUVENTUDE COMUNISTA". Como se pode verificar, da evolução dos nomes que lhe foram dados, foi ela numa significativa: "Juventude Socialista - Jovens Rebeldes (A máscara - Juventude Comunista."

Para os centros privados, foi promulgada uma lei que permite a "intervenção" do Ministério da Educação em caso de desordens para garantir a normalidade funcional dos cursos escolares. E paralelamente se fomentou a criação de grupos de "Jovens revolucionários", para provocar tais desordens, ou seja: o pretexto da "intervenção". O primeiro centro a sofrer intervenção por esse método foi a Escola Eletromecânica Belém, em Havana, em fevereiro de 1961.

Mas, a oposição firme dos estudantes provocou a radical ESTATIZAÇÃO DE TODOS OS CENTROS EDUCACIONAIS NA NAÇÃO, no mês de maio de 1961.

Na Universidade de Havana, a 15 de julho de 1960, em reunião realizada no anfiteatro da Faculdade de Filosofia e Letras, uma minoria de estudantes e alguns poucos catedráticos traidores concordaram em dissolver o Conselho Universitário e todas as Congregações de Professores e constituir uma Junta de Governo integrada por quatro estudantes e quatro professores para dirigir autoritariamente os destinos da Universidade. A Junta assim constituída - absolutamente ilegal - conclumou todos os professores a acatarem sua "autoridade" públicamente. Os professores que não atenderam ao "apelo" - mais de 500 - foram "afastados" de suas cátedras. A 4 de agosto, por meio da lei 859, o Governo legalizou a espúria "Junta de Governo".

Na Universidade de Oriente, chegou-se aos extremos de forçar, mediante uma campanha de calúnias, a renúncia do Reitor, fundador da mesma, Dr. Felipe Salcines e de expulsar um numeroso grupo de alunos pelo simples fato de terem assistido as festividades religiosas de "Santo Tomás de Aquino", no Dia do Estudante Católico.

O Reitor da Universidade de Las Villas, Dr. Pedro Oliver, e um grupo professores arriscaram suas vidas, fugindo numa embarcação, face à perseguição de que foram vítimas depois de protestar contra o fuzilamento do Presidente da Federação Esturdantil Universitaria, PorFirio Ramirez, que foi capitão do Exército Rebelde na luta contra a Ditadura de Batista.

Completa esse quadro da situação universitária o controle, por uma organização supra-universitária, composto de representantes das três Universidades, funcionários do Ministério da Educação e do I.N.R.A.; a ausência de eleições estudantis e a subvenção do sistema de concurso para a entrada de catedráticos pela contratação.

Resumindo, ouçamos o próprio Castro: "Naturalmente, hoje o Ministério da Educação tem que estar também ao serviço da Revolução".

Isto significa: 1) Os pais não podem ministrar a seus filhos a educação que desejarem; 2) Só os membros da "Juventude Comunista" podem ser dirigentes estudantis; 3) Só os professores incondicionais podem ser catedráticos; 4) Em todos os níveis e currículos deve-se eliminar obrigatoriamente o Marxismo, ficando abolido o ensino de qualquer outro sistema filosófico.

## O Camponês não tem Liberdade

A Lei de Reforma Agraria Cubana, baseada nos mesmos principios da mexicana e da boliviana, pode ser sintetizada, enquanto promessa e texto, a este fragmento da auto-defesa de Fidel Castro no processo pelo ataque ao Quartel Moncada: (8). "Um governo revolucionário, depois de assegurar em suas cubanias com carácter de donos, aos cem mil pequenos agricultores que hoje pagam arrendamentos, solucionaria satisfatoriamente e de forma definitiva, o problema da terra: primeiro: estabelecendo, como ordena a Constituição, um máximo de extensión para cada tipo de empresa agrícola e adquirindo o excesso, por meio da expropriação, reivindicando as terras usurpadas ao Estado, secando os pantanais e alagadicos, plantando grandes viveiros e reservatório novas para o replantio florestal: segundo: repartindo o restante disponível entre as famílias camponesas, de preferência as mais numerosas, fomentando cooperativas de agricultores para a utilização comum de equipamentos de grande custo, dos frigoríficos e de uma só direção profissional e técnica para as culturas e a criação e facilitando por fim, os recursos, equipamentos, patrocínio e conhecimentos úteis aos camponeses.

Na realidade, porém, que acontece?

A formação de cooperativas - sobretudo nas terras dos latifundiosexplotadores - já vem viciada desde a própria Lei. Diz o artigo

[^8]: Fabelo, "La Historia me Absolveré" por F. Castro 1953

-- 23 --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

14-00000

4.3: "Sempre que seja possivel, o Instituto Nacional de Retorma Agrária fomentará cooperativas agrárias. As cooperativas agrárias organizadas pelo Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agrária das terras de que disponha em virtude do determinado nesta Lei, estarão sob a sua direção, reservando-se o direito de designar os administradores das mesmas com o objetivo de assegurar o seu melhor desenvolvimento econômico e social, até que alcancem, reconhecida por lei a sua mais ampla autonomia".

Como se vê, a Lei pretende organizar tiraujas estatais e o fato de se referir a uma "etapa inicial" não diminui tal juízo, já que não enumera os princípios cooperativos. Tudo fica nas mãos do I.N.R.A. que não procedeu a nenhuma regulamentação tendente a "mais ampla autonomia". E, além disso, não se "fomentou" senão que se "fez"; isto é, não foi permitida a livre iniciativa do camponês.

![group of people working on crops in farm land]

> [Figure] Devido à resistência do camponês pelas imposições da Reforma Agrária Comunista, o Regime têm ido que obrigar as mulheres a fazer trabalho de lavoura

"A terra é de quem a trabalha", o que se pretende defender no ar- tigo 18: As terras de domínio privado cultivadas pelos colonos, sub- colonos, arrendatários e sub-arrendatários, parceiros e biscatistas, serão adjudicadas gratuitamente a seus cultivadores, quando a sua extensão não excede do "mínimo vital" (*). Quando tais agricultores cultivarem terras inferiores a esse "mínimo vital", ser-lhe-ão acrescentadas gratui- tamente as terras necessárias para completá-las, sempre que se possa dispor das mesmas e as condições econômicas e sociais da região o per- mitirem.

Se as terras cultivadas, nos casos que se mencionam no parágrafo anterior, excedem do "mínimo vital", sempre que não passem de 67,5 hectares a: arrendatário, sub-arrendatário, colono, sub-colono, parceiro ou biscarista, receberão, até 5 hectares a título gratuito, depois de prévia expropriação. Esta parte-lá, Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agrária, podendo adotar do proprietário, mediante venda forçada, a parte de sua possessão que exceda da área adjudicada gratuitamente, até um limite de 67.5 hectares.

Mas aqui, como se vê, não se fala de propriedade. E na prática tem sido assim. Relativamente foram distribuídos poucos títulos de propriedade e os regados são "papel molhado" (**); pois só se pode vender a terra, ceder ou explorar com permissão do I.N.R.A.. Raro tipo de propriedade na qual o uso depende da permissão de ou- trem.

Além de tudo isso, o artigo põe nas mãos do I.N.R.A. uma arma formidável: "Toda prática em contrário aos fins desta Lei, ou abandono ou aproveitamento negligente das terras que em seu amparo se outorgam, poderá ser buscada pelo Instituto de Reforma Agrária, declarando rescindida a transação a título gratuito das mesmas e seu reingresso no fundo de reserva de terras. O Regulamento desta Lei re- gerá a aplicação desse artigo".

Mas aqui, como de costume, não foi feita a regulamentação.

E ainda que exista o artigo 54 diz: São criados os Tribunais da Terra, para julgamento dos processos judiciais que regein a apli- cação desta Lei e a dos demais relacionados com a contratação agrícola a propriedade agrícola em geral. O Instituto Nacional de Reforma Agrária formulará, dentro do prazo de três meses, a partir da promul- gação desta Lei, o projeto de Lei Orgânica dos referidos Tribunais.

(*): Mínimo Vital: Equivalente a: 27 Hectares..

(**): "Papel Molhado": Significa em Cuba uma lei que não se cumpre

25


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

Passados três meses, a Lei Organica ainda não apareceu. Quem
resolve na verdade são os advogados do I.N.R.A. NÃO HÁ OUTRA
ALTERNATIVA.

É o que à mais conclusivo: o completo controle do mercado que
converte o agricultor em vendedor forçoso do I.N.R.A., acaba de
delinear a situação atual do agricultor cubano: usufrutuário das terras
estatais, sob o seu controle completo.

## O Operário não tem Liberdade

> [Figure: A poster with the text "¡ASESINOS! ¡BESTIAS! EL COMUNISMO LES PAGA CON RUB LOS ISLA D ZORA HEROICA"] This is an anti-communist poster in Spanish. The poster accuses communists of being assassins and beasts, claiming they are paid with rubles on the "Isla D Zora Heroica".

O operário Julián Montesinos assassinado pela Milícia Comunista en-ruanto
procurava asilo na Embaixada do Enunder.

O Governo Revolucionário promulgou acaso alguma lei que po
nha as massas trabalhadoras em condições de dirigir a produção e
distribuição de avião com o interesse de todos?

Não.

As indústrias, os comércios exterior e interior e os sindicatos es
tão nas mãos do Estado. O Estado – segundo a “Lógica marxista –
há de refletir as decisões do Partido, não as da sociedade. E por isso
não se procurou que representantes livremente eleitos por unidades pro
dutora, setor ou profissão, se constituíssem em assembleias planifica
doras, mas os homens do Partido vêm ocupando a direção da vida eco
nômica do país para dirigi-lo como bem quiserem, sem responder
perante o povo.

Os quatro passos principais para conseguir isto foram: as “intervenções”, “censo trabalhista”, as “nacionalizações” e as “depurações”.

1) A Lei 68, de 22 de janeiro de 1940, orgânica do Ministério
   do Trabalho, conferia ao Ministro, no inciso j de seu artigo 7, a facul
   dade de “intervir em empresas patronais e organizações operárias,
   patronais e profissionais, quando as circunstâncias o exigirem, para
   manter em atividade os centros de produção ou o exercício dos direitos
   sindicais e sociais, sempre por motivo justificado ou com vistas à Lei,
   designando para isso os delegados interventores que achar adequados
   “por sua capacidade”. Estas “intervenções”, sem regulamentação, na
   verdade, convertem o Ministério do Trabalho em patrão efetivo, equi
   valendo a “nacionalização”.

2) A Lei 701, de 19 de março de 1960, dispõe sobre a confecção
   do Primeiro Censo Trabalhista, convertendo o Ministro do Trabalho
   no empregador único, privando assim os sindicatos de todas as suas
   prerrogativas, posto que lhes nega até o direito de negociar com as
   empresas. Em seu artigo 1.º ela dispõe, de acordo com o estabelecido
   na Lei n.º 06, de 22 de janeiro de 1940, sobre “a organização e rea
   lização do Primeiro Censo Trabalhista para efeito do qual o Minis
   tério do Trabalho REGULAMENTE E CONTROLE o movimento
   do emprego em todo o país e se cumpram assim os fins que lhe forem
   suportos.

3) A 13 de outubro de 1960 foram nacionalizadas 381 em
   presas nacionais, por meio da Lei 890 e todos os bancos mediante a 891,
   ja no mês de junho haviam se nacionalizado (aí tem sentido a palavra
   nacionalização) as usinas de açúcar de propriedade norte-americana.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

A 17 de outubro, Castro comemou tais leis pela televisão e de seu discurso se deduz, implícita, a definição socialista da Revolução. Disse ele: "O programa de Moncada foi cumprido". Mas os trabalhadores que tinham memoria não poderiam acreditar. Disse Castro naquela ocasião: "A terceira lei revolucionária outorgava (no caso de ter triunfado o ataque ao Quartel Moncada) aos trabalhadores e empregados o direito de participarem de trinta poor cento das utilidades em todas as grandes empresas industriais, mercantis e de mineração, incluindo as centrais açucareiras. Excetuavam-se as empresas meramente agrícolas, tendo em vista a implantação futura de outras leis agrárias".

Deciulidamente, o programa do Moncada não se havia cumprido.

4) A dominação dos sindicatos foi iniciada pelo Executivo da Confederação de Trabalhadores de Cuba, C.T.C., mediante a submissão, coação ou expulsão de seus integrantes. Face a isso, não foi difícil preparar eleições gerais com candidatura única e colunas em branco. Houve o caso de alguém que tomon a decisão de apresentar sua candidatura pela coluna em branco, em seu centro de trabalho; milicianos do centro, um dia antes da eleição, deram-lhe a escolher: retirar o pedido ou ir para a prisão. Em outros lugares foi mais fácil: o aviso de ter-se encerrado o prazo da candidatura chegou no dia seguinte ao previsto.

Com tal esquema não é difícil compreender a "nova mentalidade proktaria", tal como se expressa na revista "Cuba Socialista" (fevereiro de 1962, n.45): "... com antecedencia ao XI Congresso Nacional, na totalidade dos Congressos das Indústrias se havia concordado, por unanimidade que, a partir de 1962, se renuncie a algumas vantagens de ordem secundária que certos setores operarios haviam conseguido, em suas justas lutas contra os patrões. Entre essas se acha, por exemplo, o chamado 13.º mes de fim de año.

Os milhões de pesos que se destinavam a este conceito, aumentariam os fundos do desenvolvimento industrial... Entre essas vantagens, encontra-se também o pagamento dos chamados nove dias por enfermidade, que em algumas indústrias era feito aos trabalhadores no fim do ano, mesmo sein ter estado doentes. Os Congressos Sindicais de comum acordo remunciaram a esta prática viciosa que alimenta a falta ao trabalho...

"O XI Congresso da CTC-R e os Congressos Sindicais das Indústrias... consideram a necessidade de revisão dos velhos contratos de

-- 28 --

trabalho, que não correspondem mais à nova situação...e dentro dos quais se encontram cláusulas que freiam o processo produtivo.

Um dos acordos feitos com esse sentido é o que estabelece que em todas as itulustrias e traballum, con in exceção dos insalubres e perigosos em que o trabalho resisite penoso e esgotante, os trabalhadores trabalhem efetivamente o dia de wito horas.

Cian esta falta de liberdade é muito fácil unstrar ao mundo um pais con que as classes trabalhadoras, "como estão no poder", não necessitam de recorrer a greves ou reclamações.

## Em Cuba ninguém tem Liberdade

*   Em Cuba não ha liberdade de expressão. Disse Castro a 10 de novembro de 1961. (9)

*   As históricas declarações desse dia, ante os Instrutores Revolucionários das "Organizações Revolucionárias Integradas", tinham duis fins: livrar-se da responsabilidade pelas injustiças que citarei e ir preparando o ambiente para a creação do Partido Unico com férrea disciplina): "Pois bem, todo esse aparato (ee informação e propaganda) está hoje nas nossas mãos e esteve praticamente em parte considerável desde os primeiros meses da Revolução,... já todas av estações de radio estão em mãos revolucionárias e sob a direção da Comissão de Orientação Revolucionária", "As 156 estações estão hoje au servico da Revolução, as duas estações nacionais de televisão e todos os jornais.

*   Dentro de um esprema totalitario, como o existente em Cuba, muito fácil usar a cuação.

Igual metodo é usado para conseguir as "grandes concentrações."

"Porque em vez de fazer tantas coletas (Disse Castro) não travaemos uma batalha pela produtividade? Como o aproveitamento dos recursos humans, em vez de coletar 500 mil miseráveis pessoas pela força, coletarrumas 50 milhões de pesos, honestale ae revoluci revolucenariamente. Não e muito melhor do que andar mendigando, pedindo e reenmiendo tostões e começar toola a gente ver nos delegados e revolucionários uns "picaretas": Interessa-nos que cumprem una revista que não se të? Perde o pais, com o papel que consome e perde o jornal porque, então, se procede a um desconto ao leitor, que não pode, mas que

9) Todos os trechos que seguem foram publicados no Diário: "El Mundo" de 11 de Novembro de 1981.

-- 29 --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

The parece ter sido imposta. É muito melhor serem tirados 5 mil, 10 mil exemplares a menos e que todo o mundo a compre espontanea- mente. Se cansam dano ao jornal, se causam dano a Revolução, as coisas que implicam nesse tipo de descontos obrigatorias, isso está re- fletido na desconfiança de toda a gente."

"Quanh me indagavam: bem, por que quieren descovitar o sindicato por assembleias? Porque de outra maneira não pagarão todos. Ou seja: no fundo há um motivo coercitivo para obrigar a gente a pagar."

"Há momentos em que são mais psicológicos para falar ao pessoal que outros; talvez no momento em que todo mundo tem vontade de ir logo para casa, se o detêm ali, aletem-se a desgosto. Haverá muitos que para que não digam que não querem ouvir, ficam".

Já mais diretamente, tem a seu cargo a vigilância os "Comitês de Defesa da Revolução" e os agentes do "Departamento de Segurança do Estado".

> [Figure: A black and white photo of a crowd of people standing behind a banner. The banner has the phrase "COMITE DE DEFENSA de la REVOLUCION" written on it, along with other Spanish words.  Two men are seen standing to the right of the banner.]

Os membros dos C. D. R. são os instrumentos para coagir o povo.

-- 30 --

Os "Comités" estão organizados por bairros e centros de trabalho e estão integrados pelos piores elementos populares. Uma ideia disso é-nos dada pelas próprias palavras de Fidel Castro: "... temos o paradoxo de que enquanto intervínhamos nas sociedades da burguesia e havíamos estabelecido nela um Comité de Defesa... Comité de De- fesa que tinha esses lugares num abandono espontâneo, que mais pare- cia um "chiqueiro" que outra coisa".

Sobre os terríveis agentes do Departamento de Segurança do Es- tado ouvimos de novo a Castro: "Basta que qualquer companheiro numa granja, numa cooperativa, numa usina de açúcar, venha a crer que é membro da Segurança... e que tem poderes onimodos sobre a liberdade das pessoas, qualquer trabalhador, qualquer camponês, qual- quer cidadão pode se ver preso durante 15 dias ou 20, sem ver a sua mulher, sem os filhos, sem ver ninguém, e isso é realmente uma iniquilidade."

"Mas há algo que me preocupa mais: mencionar o nome do órgão de Segurança, com certo temor, como um aparato misterioso do qual poderia surgir a qualquer momento alguma arbitrariedade...".

"E não é fácil explicar o fato de que um cidadão possa ser vítima de uma arbitrariedade desse tipo. Como explicar que um cidadão es- teja 40 dias preso, sem julgamento? Ou que outro fique 30 dias e depois o soltem? Que outro fique 35 e outro 10? E que, nesse ínterim, além da prisão, lhe tenham tomado o carro e o tenham arrebentado, se e que chegaram a devolvê-lo?... nossa luta face aos ladrões de au- tomóveis, aos "ocupadores de carros livremente", que tinha levado o Governo Revolucionário a sancionar uma lei determinando prisão de dez anos a todo o membro das forças armadas, miliciano, membro da Segurança, que utilizasse por conta própria veículo de uma pessoa pre- sa... lei que, infelizmente não foi aplicada uma só vez."

"E vou dizer com toda franqueza: grande número de cidadãos em nosso país podem ser perfeitamente vítimas inocentes da arbitrariedade de cem e provavelmente de mil pessoas".

"... a Revolução é a primeira a lamentar que não possa conceder garantias individuais...".

"... propor as coisas como o preço inevitável da Revolução."

-- 31 --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

A essas palavras, que não precisam de comentário, ha que se juntar a anulação do recurso de "habeas corpus" e a criação dos "Tribunais Revolucionarios", cujas terríveis caracteristicas são as seguintes:

1) Fazer parte da jurisdição militar, que indica em cada caso os soldados e oficiais do Exército Rebelde e das Milicias que deverão integrá-los; soklados e oficiais, iletrados na maioria das vezes, que padecem das condições mininas de ingarcialidade, independència e capacidade necessárias à função de administrar a Justiça...

2) Tem facultades para "definir o delito e suas circunstancias assim conto para determinar o grau e quantidade das penas". (*)

Em Cuba, antes, as Teis diziam que "ninguém poulia ser julgado por um crime que não estivesse previsto no Código", nem se poderiam impor outras sanções que as estabelecidas nas leis penais". Do mesmo modo proibia-se a aplicação por analogia dos citados preceitos. Mas Castro eliminou todas as garantias do moderno Direito Penal.

3) Não há necessidade de provas para condenar um acusado; basta a acusação do agente do Departamento de Segurança do Estado.

4) Não há limite de tempo para a apresentação dos detidos ante as autoridades, nem para a realização dos julgamentos. O caráter ir. regular desses Tribunais tem levado a casos extremos, no Presidio Mi-htar de la Calzaña, de Lazaro Reyes convocando-se, de surpresa, para julgamento, sem se poder dispor de advogado e condenando a morte em 15 minutos - Efrén Rodrigues Calo, fusilado após ter sido condenado à pena de 30 anos.

* Para resumir, bastam algumas palavras do magnifico analista do regime commumista. Milovan Djilas:

> "O mecanismo do poder comunista é aliás o mais sutil que se possa conceber, ainda que leve à tirania retinada e à exploração mais brutal."

A sutileza desse mecanismo se deve a que um só partido, o Partido Comunista, constitui o fimdamento de toda a atividade politica, económica e ideológica. Toda a vida pública fica detida, avança, retrocede e da voltas, de acordo com o que sucede nos centros do Partido.

(*) Lei 33 de 21 de Janeiro de 1959:

No sistema communista a gente se da conta eni seguirla da que lhe permite e yao se lhe permite fazer.

As leis e os regulamentos não tem importância mais especial para ela. Mas sini, as regras reais e não escritas, no que diz respeito às relacies entre o Governo e seus strlites Com, independencia das teis torlos sabem que o Governo está nas mãos dos comites do l'artido e da Poticia Secreta".

## Conclusões Finais:

O Comunismo Internacional pretende apunitar a Revolução Cubana como modelo para a América Latina.

Sai de Cuba coastmuanente enorme quantidade de propaganda, absoh.tamente contrária ao que ali acontece e tem acontecido.

Os communistas cubanos incitam à realização da Revolução Marxista-Lerminista. Inclusive duriante a crise brasileira de 1901, Fidel Castro conclamou o povo brasileiro à insurreição. Menos mal que este povo é inteligente e não lhe fez caso.

Pois us que fizeram cas do "maximo lider de Culsa Socialista encontrarão para seus povos a Miséria e o terror.

Esperamos que a leitura dessas paginas ajude a que se compreenila isso.

Quizernos apenas citar fatos, cifras concretas. Sejam suficientes, por fim, os seguintes:

Em três anos de Revolução:

2.  245 fuzilados

3.  500 presos

4.  000 exilados

5.  000.000 de vistos pedidos.

Eis o que e"Cuba Socialista". ". "Viva o Marsismo Leninismo


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# EPILOGO

"Tonki o pusler que iria andquirindo a casta de waarin, mundus pela nevssitule de manter-se mna pação privilegiada e pingur. iria o povo perlenih, sem ter a mesina razão de cumplicidade com eyerancase יןoveitos, para fazer frente aos tratarios culaçades por interesses comuns,

Como todas as suas necessidades públicas viram a ser satisieitas peto Estado, adquiriram os funcionarios então intuenia cimrine que naturalmente advem ans que distribuem algum direito e beneticist

Aquele que quer agora que o Estado cuide dele para não ter que cuidar de si, teria então que trabalhar na molta per tempo cem tarefa que o Estado pudesse the assinalar, posto que este, sobre quesi cairiam todos os deveres, se daria naturalmente todas as faculdades ne- essitas para conseguir os meios de cumprir aquises. De ser o servo de si próprio, passaria o homem a ser escravo do Estado. De escravo dos capitalistas, como se diz agora, iria até ser escrave des tuncionários.

Escravo e todo aquele que trabalha para un que tem dominio sübre èle: e nesse sistema SOCIALISTA kaminaris a unidade as homem, que à comunidade entregaria todo o seu trabalho,

como ost os funcionários são seres humanos e portanto prevarica dores sob soberlos e ambiciosos, e nessa organização teram grande pouler, apoiados por todos os que se aproveitassen en esperaseem se aprovei tar dos abusos e por aquelas forças vis vis que uue sempre ser cumprem entre seprimittos terror, prestigioson habilidade dos que mandam, este sistema de distribuição oficial do trabalho commum verseguiria usniruir em pouco tempo brutalidades, violencias, furtos e tergiversacies que o espirito de individualidade, a autoridade e ousadia de genio e da astucia do vicio originam pronta e fatalimente en toda organização humana. Do mau elemento luman - iliz Spencer - -ni se poolem fazer boas instituives Amiséria pública será, pois, on semelhante Socialisn, paheivel e grande. O funcionalistino autocration abusara da plebe. cansada e trabalhadora. Lamentável será, e geral, a servidio".

JOSE MARTI

![photo of José Martí]

JOSÉ MARTI

(1853-1895) Apóstolo da Independencia de Cuba

- 34 -

- 35 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

Agosto 1962

- 36 -

![photo of document]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)