14-00000
104-10121-10366
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of this form)

TO:
CI/Operational Approval and Support Division


☑ Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT:
(True name)
Robert A. Maheu

DATE 7 October 1959

FROM: NE/2/Jordan
1205 I x3203

PROJECT

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES
CI/OA FILE NO.

RI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK

☑ COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
U.S. and Jordan

FULL DETAILS OF USE
May be employed by the King of Jordan to handle Jordanian public relations in the U. S.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
☑ YES NO

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
x YES NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION
Per discussion with Mr. J. O'Connell, sufficient Security Office investigation has already taken place.

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS Available at OS

PRQ 1. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO II WILL BE FORWARDED

PRQ 11. OR EQUIVALENT. IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO:

FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD
NO INFORMATION OF VALUE

DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH EVALUATION
X NOT INITIATED (Explanation) has not been in area
WILL BE FORWARDED

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

NO RECORD
RECORD
X NON-DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY
DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

NO RECORD
RECORD
X NON-DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER
EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF
James E. Burkart
3203 William R. Freeman

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)