# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

|                                     | CLASSIFICATION |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------- |
|                                     | SECRET         |
| **TO**                              |                |
| Chief, Western Hemisphere Division  |                |
| **INFO.**                           | DFA            |
| Chief of Station, WH/Miami          |                |
| **FROM**                            |                |
| Chief of Station, Mexico City       |                |
| **SUBJECT**                         |                |
| D Target Study: Jesus CRUZ Gonzalez |                |

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

References: HMMA-38920, 25 May 1970, Previous Target Study
HMMA-39753, November 1970, Details of Cuba Month
UFAA-2430, 22 October 1970, and related correspondence concerning Miami Station Contact with CRUZ' relatives in Miami

MICROFILMED
DEC 29 1970

1. Forwarded under separate cover is the up-dated Target Study on Jesus CRUZ Gonzalez, the Cuban Press Attache in Mexico, and his wife, Mercedes MARTINEZ Moreno, Secretary to the Ambassador and Chargé. As is clear from the attached study and the log of activities of CRUZ during October 1970, CRUZ is extremely busy, has many contacts, and is probably one of the more accessible members of the Cuban Embassy. On the other hand, he is so busy with his overt activities working with press matters, and handling the Cuban Embassy side of Prensa Latina, that the Station does not believe he has practically any time free for intelligence assignments. (Since the arrival of the Cultural Attache in January 1970, CRUZ has dropped all cultural activities. He no longer handles the Mexican-Cuban Cultural Institute.) He is on the phone with or visiting the Prensa Latina offices several times each day. He arranges for subscriptions to publications (magazines and newspapers) through Prensa Latina from the United States and Latin American countries and he orders books from various bookstores in Mexico City. He also handles the press material, including news film, coming to Mexico via commercial flights from the Prensa Latina representative in Peru. He orders photographic and other related supplies in Mexico and New York, and handles visas for newsmen who wish to travel to Cuba. Mercedes does lot to help CRUZ, as he does not have his own secretary. As can be seen from the attached log, twice he dictated a cable over the phone for her to type for his signature. It is believed that when she returns in the afternoon to the Embassy with CRUZ it is to help him.

Document Number 1226-11290

FOIA Review
FEB 1977

Attachment:
Target Study u/s/c

Continued......

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Chief, WHD (left half, h/w; right half, u/s/c) (att., u/s/c)
1 - COS, WH/Miami (left half, h/w; right half, u/s/c) (att., u/s/c)

| CROSS REFERENCE TO | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | DATE            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | --------------- |
|                    | HMMA - 39809               | 2 December 1970 |
|                    | CLASSIFICATION             | HQS FILE NUMBER |
|                    | SECRET                     | 201-337669      |
|                    |                            | P-4061 FFN      |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

2.  The LIEMBRACES have surveilled CRUZ quite often, and only one unusual contact was noted. That was a three hour luncheon with an Argentine leftist, *Maximo SIMPSON Grinberg*, a foreign correspondent in Mexico for the magazine *Medico Moderno*. Generally speaking, CRUZ leaves the Embassy during the working day alone on his errands, rather than with another Embassy employee, which is more often the rule with the other officers. CRUZ usually goes with his wife on errands during the lunch hour or in the afternoon before returning to the Embassy. These errands are on personal business such as to the furniture store, super market, optics, doctor, etc; but also on business, such as to bookstores. CRUZ' days are very long, as can be seen from the attached log.

3. While Mercedes and CRUZ are very busy and have many contacts, they do not seem to make close personal friends, and the persons with whom they are in contact appear almost exclusively to be business contacts. The Station has been unable to locate any person who might make a good access agent to CRUZ. None of the Station's agents mentioned in paragraph 6 of HMMA-38920 were close to CRUZ. The closest companion would be the Subject of 201-860095. The Station is reporting separately on its attempts to develop and recruit this person.

4.  The Station has even considered approaching CRUZ' maid, especially when it became known she was so unhappy with her lot as a servant. However, since the maid almost never leaves the apartment and she is virtually inaccessible, the Station has been unsuccessful in having any asset establish any degree of rapport with her, although a contact of LITAINT-2 has been able to engage her in telephone contact and hopes to date her eventually.

5. Since the Station believes that CRUZ is almost entirely dedicated to press affairs, and no really good access agents are in view, the Station will not make a priority effort to develop an entre into CRUZ' circle except via the operation now underway to recruit 201-860095. If this operation is successful, the Station would have an excellent asset in frequent contact with CRUZ for a better personal assessment and information on CRUZ' assignment in Mexico for the Cubans. Until this type of information becomes available, however, the Station believes it has identified CRUZ' role as almost purely press, and we have been unable to detect any vulnerability data on either CRUZ or his wife.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

![Three people in a picture frame: a man wearing glasses, a woman wearing sunglasses and a boy.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

201-337669
P-4061
November 1970

A. Basic Biographic Data

1. Full Name: Jesus CRUZ Gonzalez

   Jose de Jesus CRUZ Gonzalez (HMMW 15729)

2. Nicknames:

   "Chaparro" (Shorty) by Sergio Pineda of Prensa Latina

3. Date and place of birth:

   Jesus: 18 November 1939, Sancti Spiritus, Las Villas,
   Province, Cuba

   Mercedes: 18 April 1940

4. Citizenship: Cubn (both)

5. Official identity or travel papers:

   Arrived Mexico 20 November 1967 with following passports:

   Jesus, PP D/67/818

   Mercedes, PP D/67/819

6. Father:

   a) of Jesus:

   Jesus CRUZ Morales, Prior to exit from Cuba lived
   on a 2 1/2 caballerias farm, Carreno farm, La Chorrera
   del Calvario, Havana Municipal District and Province.
   Against regime. Arrived U.S. 13 November 1969 on Refugee
   Airlift. Died 23 June 1970.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

-2-

b) of Mercedes:

Name not known. He is known to have had a "taller" (probably auto repair shop) which was nationalized. He apparently was given nothing for it, just earned a straight salary, which Mercedes' mother said was not enough to live on. Mother wrote Mercedes in May 1968 they were receiving 123 Cuban pesos and she was unable to maintain the house with that. (Source: LISAMPAN/BAKER) (Comment: It is not known whether Mercedes contributes to her parents.)

7. Mother:

a) of Jesus:

Carmen Elodina GONZALEZ Monteagudo. Arrived U.S. 13 November 1969 on Refugee Airlift. Resides 1223 N.W. 111th St., Miami, Tel. 75799866. Lives with daughter. Has high blood pressure.

b) of Mercedes:

Name not known. Still living in Havana with her husband.

8. Spouse:

Mercedes MARTINEZ Moreno, born 18 April 1940.

Married on 3 September 1960. Cruz was 22, Mercedes 19.

9. Children:

Ivan, born in Paris 15 October 1962.
Abel, born 12 December, about 1966, in Havana.
Axel, born the end of 1969 in Havana.

Note: Mercedes says she was very ill with her first child. It was born premature and died. (Source: LISAMPAN/BAKER).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

10. Siblings:

a) of Jesus:

Digna CRUZ Gonzalez, h. Humberto YERO Costa who
is a naturalized U.S. citizen. Reside: 1223 N.W.
111th St., Miami, Florida, Phone: 757-9866 (UFAA 603).
Digna has been in u.s. since about 1957. Born
about 1931. Has a ladies dress store, "Miss Digna's
Fashions" at 12320 West Dixie Highway, North, Miami,
Florida. Tel: 757-0886.

Santa Ma. CRUZ Gonzalez, h. Edmundo Leopoldo
ALONSO Escalona. 3 children. Reside: 1258 N.W.
100 Terrace, Miami, Florida. ALONSO, A 18 219 991,
working aluminum factory, but trying to get job
as technician in hospital. In U.S. since 13 November
1968.

Roger CRUZ Gonzalez, born 1941, w. Caridad GONZALEZ
Banes, 3 children. Roger is epileptic. Airlifted
to Miami in end 1969. Has been receiving medical
treatment at Jackson Memorial Hospital for his
epilepsy and is responding well. He has had no
attacks since starting the pills. He works and is
very happy.

Juan Enrique CRUZ Gonzalez, born 14 February 1935.
w. Bertha Jose SAINZ Gonzalez, both live Miami.

b) of Mercedes:

No information on how many sisters or brothers
Mercedes has. However, according to LISAMPAN, her
Mother and Father are her only family in Cuba.

11. Other relatives by blood or marriage:

Jesus is known to have a very large family. See
UFAA 603. However apparently from the debriefing
conducted by WH/Miami of some members, none of the
family except Jesus is pro-Castro, and none hold high
level or important positions in Cuba.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

-4-

Mercedes said in 1968 that her Mother and Father were the only family she had in Cuba. (Note: It was impossible to interpret whether she meant part of her family was outside Cuba, or this was all there was to the family.)

LISAMPAN/BAKER: reported in 1968 that Mercedes said she had sent her nephew "Robertico" a pair of stockings.

12. Religion:

UFAA 603, Source Jesus' sister, said that Cruz' family is large and all are devout Catholics. Nine members are priests or nuns. Until 1956 Jesus CRUZ was a student at La Salle Seminary. An aunt on the father's side was the Mother Superior of a convent in Cuba, and is now in a convent in Spain.

Mercedes: No indication Mercedes is Catholic nor agnostic. In March 1968 she said she didn't think the Soviets should have held a reception of the Soviet poet Yevshenko in view of the death of the Soviet astronaut GAGARIN a few days before.

13. Education:

Jesus: UFAA 603. Was a student at La Salle Seminary in Havana from 1946 to 1956 studying to be priest. Left in 1956 to attend high school. He was graduated in 1957.

Mercedes: Said she did not study either at secundaria or preparatoria. (This means no high school education.). Instead she said she studied some commercial courses. (Note: She is a good secretary, and takes shorthand and types. Source: LISAMPAN/BAKER.)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

-5-

14. Languages:

Jesus: speaks some French (was stationed in Paris)

Mercedes: speaks some French and some English. She thinks the English has been useful, but Jesus apparently refuses to learn English and has chided Mercedes about her having studied it. Mercedes is proud of her French and likes to correct people's pronunciation of French words. She says that when she speaks a lot of English it is hard for her to express herself in French. She has no trouble translating either French or English. She studied English for 5 years. (LISAMPAN/BAKER) (Source: Sation appraisal of Mercedes' English is that it is only fair.)

15. Military service:

Not known.

16. History of employment:

a) Jesus:

1958 or 59: Western Union in Havana. (This is where Jesus met Mercedes who was also working for Western Union.)

Nov. 1961 - Sept 1964: Jesus was Press Attaché in Paris. (Mercedes worked in Paris as personal secretary to Amb. CARRILLO. The Cuban Diplomatic and Consular Missions Abroad listed Mercedes as an Attaché in Paris in January 1963. It was also reported she was Foreign Service II Assistant which is an Attaché.)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

-6-

HMMA 36071 reported Mercedes said she was in Paris only during 1962 and 1963, but Jesus remained until 1964.

LISAMPAN/BAKER reported on 21 August 1968 that Mercedes said she was separated from Jesus for 9 months while he was in Europe, serving in Prague.

LISAMPAN/BAKER, 1968, Mercedes said that Mexico was colder than Paris, and later Prague. Said she arrived in Prague in full winter.

1965-1967: Jesus was in Cuba working for the Foreign Ministry (Source: Digna, the sister. Digna, however, was wrong about the dates of Jesus' assignment in Paris which she gave as late 1962 to late 1965) (Note: Possibly he was in Prague 1964-65.)

Mercedes may have worked in the Cuban Foreign Ministry during the same period. ΗΜΜΑ 35071 reported she worked in the "Direccion" with a girl who was going to marry Pedro LLOPIS Salles, a courier.

LISAMPAN/BAKER reported on 8 August 1968 that Mercedes made reference to the fact she worked in the "Ministry".

LISAMPAN/BAKER reported in November 1968 that Mercedes gave instructions on typing of "Confidential" correspondence. She said one copy goes to Raul ROA (Foreign Minister). She said, "Don't forget, I worked within the Secretary". ΗΜΜΑ 36071.

20 November 1967 CRUZ arrived PCS in Mexico as Press and Cultural Attaché (Second Secretary). Mercedes became the private secretary for the Ambassador. (Note: She is one of two secretaries who are paid in the Embassy.)

17. Record of arrests:

Not known.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

-7-

18. Physical description:

|                        | Jesus        | Mercedes                                                                          |
| ---------------------- | ------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Sex:                   | Male         | Female                                                                            |
| Age:                   | 31           | 30                                                                                |
| Apparent age:          | 35           | 30                                                                                |
| Height:                | 5'6"         | 5'5"                                                                              |
| Weight:                | 150 lbs.     | 120 lbs.                                                                          |
| Build:                 | Medium       | Medium                                                                            |
| Posture:               | Regular      | Regular                                                                           |
| Face:                  | Oval         | Oval                                                                              |
| Eyes:                  | Dark         | Dark                                                                              |
| Hair:                  | Black        | Black (dyed)                                                                      |
| Beard or mustache:     | Clean shaven |                                                                                   |
| Complexion:            | White        | White (One reference to her as mulatto. Has full lips but does not look negroid.) |
| Teeth:                 | Regular      | Regular                                                                           |
| Scars:                 | None known   |                                                                                   |
| Habits of dress:       | Suit         | Desses quite well                                                                 |
| Ethic type appearance: |              | Latin                                                                             |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

-8-

|                             | Jesus                             | Mercedes |
| --------------------------- | --------------------------------- | -------- |
| General appearance:         | good                              | good     |
| Prominent features:         | none                              | none     |
| Other identifying features: | always wears prescription glasses |          |

B. Curriculum Vitae (Chronologically by year from birth to present.)

Jesus' youth was that of a normal middle class Cuban. The father had a small farm and from the profits gave his family a comfortable life. They were not, however, rich or from the upper crust of the social ladder. Jesus' sister said "we had everything we needed. We were middle class Cubans, not rich, but not poor." Jesus was a student during the Batista era before Castro. He did not have to work; he just asked father for his expense money. Sister thinks Mercedes was from a middle class family. (UFAA 2430, 22 October 1970)

Apparently in Havana, then Paris, Havana, Mexico City. See Job history. Some question whether they went to Prague, when, why, and for how long, possibly this was after Paris.

C. Personal and Private Data

1. Address and telephone number of present residence:

Amsterdam 218, Apt. 201
Mexico City, Mexico (DOI: November 1970)
Phone: 574-0224

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

-9-

2. Nature and description of lodging and surroundings:

a) previous apartment in Mexico City was only one bedroom apartment. They lived there during their first tour until Mercedes went home to have her third baby. In January 1969 she said that when she returned from Cuba she would seek new quarters. Her apartment was uncomfortable and she couldn't receive people there, they always had to eat out. Mercedes indicated to a Embassy officer she would not ask for authorization from Havana first as she might be turned down, then she would not be allowed to move.

She indicated she brought from Recuperación de Bienes a dining room and living room furniture. She bought in Mexico her beds, and a refrigerator out of her own salary. She thought she fared worse than other employees.

b) In early 1970 they rented their present apartment, which has three bedrooms and two baths, plus a maid's bedroom and bath. Living room, kitchen, dining room.

3. Location of resident, with respect to target installation:

15 blocks almost directly East from the Embassy.

4. Servants:

Clara Santa, Cuban, negro. Has special Cuban passport and is in Mexico as part of Cruz' household. Born about 1936. Called a "technical export".

In 1968 the Felix LUNA (201-759016) family also had a Cuban maid which they brought with them when they came PCS. That maid is no longer here. She was also negro.

July 1968 Carlota, the other maid, said she saw the records, and they were to get 1,000 pesos salary. But deductions were to be made for food, etc. In mid-1968 both Carlota and Clara Santa each got 500 pesos (U.S. $40) per month. Mercedes always pays Clara

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

-10-

promptly, but she is a stingy mistress, and deducts
from Clara Santa's salary every cent paid for the
maid's medicines, etc.

It is known that the Cuban government gives some
money to Clara Santa's mother in Cuba. How much
is not known. Clara Santa wated to ask for a part
of her mother's money in Mexico to help buy shoes,
clothes, etc. to take back to Cuba, but she was told
this was a capitalistic approach.

Mercedes, though strict, is good about sending
packages of medicines back to Cuba for Clara.

Clara is apparently very color conscious. Always asks
what color a person is. She says the Mexicans like
Negro women, therefore she had to be careful. (Note:
It is possible Mercedes told her this to keep her home,
as this was insinuated once.) Mercedes does not like
for Clara Santa to talk with people on the phone. The
other maid, Carlota, commented Mercedes treated Clara
like a child.

Clara's main complaint is that she has no free time, is
tied to the apartment, does not have time for the movies,
to get her hair done, etc. She also complains things
are expensive in Mexico. Likes to buy clothes. Mercedes
does help her with the washing and ironing. Mercedes
also helps by sending a lot of the laundry out, especially
that which needs ironing, like shirts. Compared to the
Luna's, the Cruz' do very little entertaining, thus
lightening Clara's work.

22 September 1970: Daisy/called Santa re the farewell
party given for Mrs. Luna. Santa said that Mercedes
asked Santa if she wanted to go, but Santa felt she had
to tell Mercedes she was the one who should go. Daisy
and Santa criticize all the women who work at the
Embassy, saying they are a bunch of hypocrites. (Main
complaint seems to be the other women have money, buy
clothes, etc.) Santa said she would be glad when
December came as she can then return to Cuba (did not
say for vacation or PCS).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

-11-

November 1970: Clara still seldom goes out. Her best friend appears to be Daisy ZULUETA, also a negro. Daisy does Clara's hair, sometimes shop together.

5. Meals, where, when and with whom:

Jesus and Mercedes both generally return to the Embassy after lunch. Lunch is often hurried at home. Comparatively speaking they have few luncheon guests. Apparently they often eat the evening meal out (in Mexico this is the light meal of the day).

For an evening snack they often go to "El Farolita" on the corner of Juanacatlan and Altata.

6. Barber:

Not known, but Cruz always appears neat.

Mercedes goes to the beauty shop quite often. She keeps her hair dyed--black.

7. Tailor:

Jesus: As of September 1968 Jesus had two suits. He apparently brought one with him from Cuba. He had one made in Mexico. Cost him over 1,000 pesos (U.S. $80)

When in Yucatan during 1968, both Cruz and Mercedes bought a lot of things (LIFEAT implied in the clothes line). When Cruz returned in July 1968 he bought a lot of Guayaberas (typical Yucatecan sport shirts).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

-12-

Mercedes: In late 1968 it was commented Mercedes had no long evening gown. She wore a short dress to a special function.

Mercedes likes good clothes and buys good clothes for herself and for the children. (LIFEAT)

8. Dentist; physician:
   Dentist: (May 1969) Carlos CRISTO Campos, Gutemberg 34-7
   Pediatrician: Dr. Roberto Zorrilla. Phone 525-51-62
   (June 1970) Durango No. 243-401

9. Shops frequented:

10. Church attended:

Jesus was a Catholic. His current (1970) church affiliation not known.

Mercedes: Church affiliation not known. No mention that children are baptized, etc.

11. Sports, participant:

4 September 1968 the maid said Cruz went out to play ball. (Type of ball not specified.) LIFEAT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

-13-

12. Sports, spectator:

Sister reported UFAA 603 that Cruz liked sports in general.

13. Time at residence:

14. Normal after hours activity:

Cruz almost always returns to the Embassy after a late lunch to work. He apparently works late at the Embassy. In the evening he also has appointments.

Mercedes returns to the Embassy also. She either helps Cruz, or sits in the gatehouse and gossips.

Cruz and Mercedes go to the movies a lot in the evening.

They both leave the Embassy together at 14:00 every day and then surveillance shows that Mercedes and Jesus generally run errands (grocery, dry cleaning, etc.) after work and before or after lunch. Therefore they take a long lunch break. Cruz also meets with Carlos FERREIRA of Prensa Latina in Ferreira's apartment or in Cruz'

> meets frequently with Cuba Dur attache 201-860095
> Jesus Enz Ginzaliy 201-337669>

15. Theater, cinema, ticket agencies:

Cruz and his wife do not appear to attend the theater. There is mention that Mercedes will go to the movie in the afternoon, after lunch, instead of returning to the Embassy with Cruz to work.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

-14-

16. Night clubs, cafes, pubs:

There is little indication Cruz and his wife go to night clubs, cafes. On 15 August 1968 they did go to CARDINI's, but this probably because a Cuban singer was playing there.

17. Vacations:

Cruz and Mercedes do not appear to take vacations in Mexico nor to travel much in Mexico on weekends. Mercedes does, apparently, think it is important to see the tourist sights as has told this to visiting Cubans.

They also seldom go to Cuba. The whole family, including maid, returned to Cuba for one month home leave in January 1969, after having been in Mexico for 2 years. Mercedes had not returned to Cuba in this time, nor had the children.

She returned again with the children the end of September 1969 to have her third baby. They all returned to Mexico the end of January 1970.

18. Hobbies, clubs, lodges:

Cruz' sister indicated Cruz has no hobbies.

From information available to the Mexico City Station neither Cruz nor Mercedes have been noted to have hobbies.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

-15-

19. Mistresses or lovers:

No indication Cruz has a mistress, nor that he is interested in other women. The same, Mercedes does not seem to flirt with other men.

20. Personal friends:

Cruz and his wife do not seem to have close personal friends. They seem to be colder, prefer to be alone, and spend most of their time working or running family errands. They do not even appear to develop close freindships with their fellow employees. Mercedes likes to gossip with the other employees, but her friendship appears to stop there. Most of their contacts appear to be in Cruz' line of work--press or cultural, and are for business purposes.

21. Persons who visit Subject at residence:

Other fellow employees. Carlos Ferreira of Prensa Latina.

22. Correspondents:

Paris: ΗΜΜΑ 35050: Esther Maria OSSES of the University of Paris wanted to go to Cuba and asked Cruz to write her via the Cuban Press Attaché in Paris She appeared to be a friend of Cruz from his days in Paris. (Mexico City Station has no record that the Paris Station followed up this lead.) No other letters from OSSES have been noted.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

-16-

23. Telephone contacts:

Cruz receives and makes many long distance phone calls at his home. Calls came in from Havana, the Cuban Mission in New York, and from cultural/press contacts throughout Mexico. This was quite true during the pre-Olympic season when the Cubans had many cultural affairs (dance teams, art, etc.) circulating around Mexico. Now the calls mainly concern press matters. He calls the Cuban Missions in Canada and New York re purchases they are making for him. Also calls Havana and they call him at home.

24. Tobacco:

Mercedes used to smoke "KOOL" cigarettes when she was in Paris.

As of November 1970 it does not appear either smoke now. (LITAINT-2)

25. Alcohol:

March 1968 Mercedes said Cruz was drunk the previous night. No more details. (LISAMPAN/BAKER).

LITAINT-2 reports Cruz cannot hold liquor, but insists on drinking cognac. (November 1970) Gets drunk occasionally.

26. Eating habits:

15 August 1968: Cuban maid said Mercedes and Cruz eat very little ordinarily. They prepare barely enough so nothing is left over, and a last minute guest is a problem. Insinuation is that Mercedes is very tight.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

-17-

Mercedes does not like picante food. It does not agree
with her.

LITAINT-2 said Cruz eats heavily.

27. Mode of transportation:

Cruz has and has always had a QP car in Mexico.
While he shares this with other Embassy officers
occasionally, it is usually his.

Cruz usually picks Mercedes up at home if she has to
do something or go to the Embassy late. But she also
quite often calls a cab to take her someplace. Once
she commented she had taken a bus.

Mercedes took driving lessons in Mexico on May 1970,
and occasionally drives alone but not as much as the
other driving wives.

28. Chattel property:

Cubans provided Cruz with living and dining room
furniture, but in Mexico they bought their own beds,
and a refrigerator.

Bought a Phillips TV in Mexico.
Bought a company tablecloth June 1968.
Brought a vacuum from Cuba.

Mercedes commented she had a lovely bedspread in Cuba
and had to buy more here in Mexico.

29. Personal bank accounts:

No known bank accounts, but it is believed Mercedes
and Cruz are saving every cent they can and are investing
in things to take back to Cuba.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

-18-

30. Other relevant personal information:

30 June 1968: Mercedes said she wanted to take a TV and refrigerator back to Cuba as these things were permitted.

D. Political Data

1. Party membership:

15 May 1968: Mercedes indicated that Jesus Cruz was not yet a member of the Party, but was a candidate and should be accepted as a full-fledged member before the end of the month. (LISAMPAN/BAKER) HMMA 36071

(OTA 2080 said Jesus' brother was interviewed in Cuba in February 1969 in investigation to make Jesus CPC mbr.)

2. Party functions:

Cruz was invited to a lunch for members of the Party in the Embassy in Mexico. Mercedes complained that the Embassy should pay, not Cruz, because he was not a member yet.

3. Degree of political conviction and indoctrination:

August 1968: On the occasion of the USSR invasion of Czechoslovakia, Mercedes at first did not believe it, then said she was sure it couldn't happen to Cuba because Cuba had no frontiers, and they (USSR?) are far away. (LISAMPAN/BAKER)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

-19-

February 1969: Mercedes criticized many of the things done by the government in Cuba, but seemed to remain faithful to the Revolution, and at times commented on the advantages gained by the poor people. (Comments by Rita BLAZEK, LIFEAT/LISAMPAN transcriber.)

February 1969: Cruz' two sisters and brother-in-law in Miami believe Cruz is totally in favor of the current regime, and nothing could induce him to defect or collaborate with the U.S. One sister commented, however, that he might have a favorable reaction if his parents got out of Cuba. (Note: The sister was very emotional at this point, and gave no reason why she thought Cruz would change his mind.) UFAA 603

UFAA 1966: Sister said Cruz is idealist, truly believes in Castro. Convinced what he is doing is good for Cuba.

He is definitely a Fidelista, but not a Communist. (LITAINT-2, November 1970)

6. Other political data:

All of Cruz' family, except Cruz himself, is anti-Castro and very pro-Catholic.

Mercedes' family is also anti-regime and several are in exile. (See UFAA 603, no more details.)

Cruz was anti-Batista and took part in the struggle against Batista. (UFAA 603)

The brother-in-law does not know if Cruz is anti-American, but does not believe he would collaborate with the U.S. (UFAA 603)

The Cuban government nationalized Mercedes' father's plant and now they cannot live on their income.

Oldest boy - 8 years old gave his father a present--a Cuban boat shooting down U.S. plane. Mother's surprise was tank with Cuban flag shooting down U.S. plane.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

-20-

Mercedes pretends to be a hard-core Revolutionary, but tries to escape the menial revolutionary tasks, like taking her turn at the office in various things.

E. Job Data

1.  Job title and PCS arrival: 20 November 1967

Jesus: Second Secretary, Press and Cultural Attaché (When Jorge HERNANDEZ Ojeda arrived PCS on 5 January 1970 he took over Cultural Attache Since then Cruz is only Press Attaché.)

Mercedes: Private Secretary to the Ambassador.

2.  Official documents and credentials carried:

diplomatic passports

3.  Rank and salary:

Jesus: not known

Mercedes: gets 150 (presumably Cuban pesos) per month plus "nivel de vida".

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

-21-

4. Allowances:

Rent allowance, and "nivel de vida" (probably a equalization allowance.)

5. Where employed:

Cuban Embassy, Mexico City. Mercedes is in the anteroom to the Ambassador's office in the main building. Cruz' office is in a building in the rear of the compound in another building also occupied by the Commercial offices.

In June 1970 the Portero said Jesus has no fixed hours at the Embassy. Jesus generally arrives at the Embassy with Mercedes anywhere from about 8:30 to 9:30. They leave together about 14:00 - 14:30 for lunch and return about 17:00 or 18:00.

6. Basic duties:

Jesus Cruz:

a) In Paris, Jesus was head of the Press Department and was responsible for distribution of over-all work in the Embassy. Constantly tried to make high level French contacts, and was involved in France-Cuba association. Also handled liaison with Soviet Bloc establishments, particularly Russian and Czech Embassies. (ΗΜΜW 16254)

b) In Mexico, from date of arrival November 1967 till January 1970 Cruz handled both Cultural and Press matters for the Cubans in Mexico, including most Olympic cultural matters.

c) One of his main press jobs is the responsibility for Prensa Latina. This responsibility includes the control of Prensa Latina's finances. All the bills must be submitted to Cruz, and Cruz reimburses PL based on accountings. The PL Telex bills, for example,

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

-22-

d) In the cultural field his main responsibility was liaison with the Cultural Institutes throughout Mexico. He provided the institutes with propaganda material, film. He attended or saw that someone else attended major functions at the various institutes; arranges cultural events such as art exhibits, visiting Cuban musicians and artists, etc. During the pre-Olympic period in the summer and fall of 1968 this cultural responsibility was extremely time consuming as the Cubans were very active in this cultural exchange field.

e) Cruz also attended various meetings held in honor of Cuba, the Cuban Revolution, Che Guevara, etc. mainly in Mexico City.

f) In line with both the press and cultural jobs, Cruz was responsible for the handling of visas for persons connected in both the press and cultural fields. He, not the Consulate, would obtain the visas and was the Cuban contact. After January 1970, Cruz' responsibility is limited to the press field. In May 1968 Cruz was the Embassy employee to whom students were referred if they planned to visit Cuba to attend various celebrations. (ΗΜΜΑ 34705)

g) In July 19, 1968, the Embassy said that Cruz was needed to sign some passports. (It is not known whether this concerned visas or actual issuance of passports.)
Note: In 1970 only the Cuban Chargé and Consul were authorized to issue visas.

h) In the press field, in July 1968 it was Cruz, who was responsible for arranging with Dr. Arnaldo Orfila of the publishing house Siglo XXI for the publication of Che Guevara's diary in Spain.

i) In April 1969 Cruz dedicated an exhibition of engravings by Cuban artists in the Coyoacan theater. (This showing was also to be circulated to Guadalajara, Monterrey, Veracruz, and Merida.)

j) On 5 June 1969 Jorge SANTIESTEBAN, a Peruvian journalist, arrived in Mexico from Cuba and contacted Jesus Cruz at the Embassy. He said that Telesforo DIAZ who is head of Foreign Press of the Cuban Foreign Ministry had asked him (SANTIESTEBAN) to see Cruz who would give him "the photos".

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

-23-

k) When Cuban Press Office was negotiating for Telex
equipment Cruz was named as the person responsible for
technical service of the equipment. (HMMA-36065, 19
December 1968)

Mercedes:

a) In Mexico her main responsiblity is as private
secretary to the Ambassador. Cruz also gives her a
lot of his work to do. Now (November 1970) she is
secretary for the Charge.

b) A regular job is handling the diplomatic mail.
She apparently is responsible for the outgoing pouch,
even though she usually gets help from one of the men
in closing the pouch. In July 1968 she made a reference
that her biggest cross to bear is the preparation of
the pouch each Friday and Monday (the days of the Cubana
flights). LISAMPAN/BAKER (HMMA 36071). On 4 September
1968 she told the Austrian Embassy that she was in charge
of the diplomatic mail to Cuba. Apparently, however,
she doesn't always open or distribute the incoming pouch.
In November 1968 the Ambassador's chauffeur had opened
the pouch and Mercedes did not know what was in the pouch.

c) There is also an indication Mercedes is responsible
for all classified filing and material in the Embassy.
Before she arrived, each man handled and kept his won.
She now maintains the safes and gives instructions on
the handling of classified materials.

d) In 1970, Nov., she said she was responsible for all
"duty exemptions" (franquicias)

8. Special duties (IS):

Jesus:

a) The end of June and early July 1967 there were
four inspectors at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City.
(Source: LIRING-4, MEXICO CITY 2053, 10 July 1967).
A study of flight manifests showed that one of two
Cubans who was in Mexico for a long TDY around this
time was Jesus Cruz who was in Mexico 12 June to
15 July on Prensa Latina matters. LIENVOY showed he
was in working contact with LIRING-9 and 201-776733.
(MEXICO CITY 2219, 20 July 1967)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

-24-

AMBEDEW-1 identified Cruz as DGI, Section II-1 (DIR 04323, 22 May 1969) Identified as as DSE (HΜΜW 15729)

According to Heriberto JORRIN, Embassy gatehouse keeper, Cruz replaced Julian LOPEZ Diaz (LIENVOY, 11 December 1967) LOPEZ Diaz (201-351555) was the former Cuban Press and Cultural Attaché who was forced to leave Mexico on 30 September 1966 because of involvement in subversive activities (arms shipments) in Mexico.

15 September 1968: Cruz was seen meeting with Silvia Gaytan, who was apparently a Cuban source at the University. The meeting was at Sanborns and she showed Cruz some pamphlets and papers. She also made an appointment with Cruz for the 18th.

The Ambassador signs at least some of Cruz' confidential correspondence. (HΜΜΑ 35308, 26 August 1968)

In Paris Cruz was in contact with Juan MARI Bras, < Puerto Rican independence leader and Cuban intelligence agent. (ΗΜΜ 15729)

Mercedes:

b) Mercedes is known to pull special guard or other duty in which the employees take turns In November wąs 1968 she got out of this duty on some pretext and/found out as she was seen shopping downtown. ✓ Rosa Luna complained that Mercedes did not like taking the duties. The maid complained of the same thing, that Mercedes always tried to get out of these duties, by saying she had to go out with Jesus, stay home, etc.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

-25-

9. Superiors: degree of intimacy:

a) In May 1968 the Ambassador Joaquin HERNANDEZ Armas appeared to be defending himself to Cruz, maintaining that he, HERNANDEZ, has not made a political statement as it was published in the newspaper *El Heraldo*. HMMA 34728.

b) In August 1968, Felix Luna referred to Eduardo XMUÑOZ Gutierrez of the Cuban National Council of Culture was Cruz' boss. (MEXICO CITY 6837, 20 August 68).

c) Rita BLAZEK, transcriber, commented that Mercedes is very correct with the Ambassador, yet is also friendly and relaxed with him.

10. Subordinates:

Jesus Cruz' principal subordinates are the Prensa Latina chief. He appears to rely more on his wife than he does his part-time secretary for business matters. The Station believes he can use Rosa FERNANDEZ de ALVAREZ, the secretary of Jorge HERNANDEZ, Cultural Attaché.

With the Prensa Latina men, he gives quite specific instructions. He believes he should be consulted more by Prensa Latina, so that it can be sure to follow the line. He is on the phone constantly with Prensa Latina, going to their office or having Prensa Latina employees come to the Embassy.

Mercedes appears to get along well with all the employees in the Embassy, and is very friendly with official Cuban visitors. She especially likes to gossip. In this gossip she often criticizes the other compañeras in the Embassy.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

-26-

30 July 1968: LIFEAT: Luna had 19 to eat the day
before, but Mercedes said she wouldn't have these (?) people to eat. Said it was poor taste. The maid commented that the Cruz' talk poorly of these people. Then the maid said Astorga is a diplomat. (It cannot be told if Astorga who is lower level employee of the Embassy, was included in the dinner crowd.)

11. Business and Personal Contacts:

March 1968: Cruz was invited to the home of Guatemalan Mario Monteforte Toledano, with a group of socialist newsmen (LIENVOY).

May 1968: Jesus was invited to eat by Mario MENENDEZ Rodriguez leftist Mexican publisher. Cruz preferred to eat out in the evening, 8:30.

15 June 1968: Mercedes and Jesus were invited to Alfonso ARAU's home. (actor)

16 June 1968: Guillermo Trejo Oviedo of Prensa latina weekly newspaper in Puebla, called the Embassy. Gate- house gave him Cruz' home phone. Cruz was upset that Trejo was given this number. Trejo wanted a loan as he needed money to run his newspaper, he hadn't paid for the paper yet. Cruz indicated this was not up to him, but the decision of the Embassy and for Trejo to call there. (Trejo is long time contact of the Embassy and the newspaper has printed articles favorable to Cuba.) MEXICO CITY 5972, June 1968. Possible Cubans subsidizing the paper.

9 July 1968: Sr. Guillermo Trejo Olviedo called Cruz at the Embassy. Cruz wasn't in.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

-27-

Professor Barón of Liceo-Franco Mexicano met Cruz at an Embassy reception. He called Cruz because he had a friend who wanted to go to Cuba. Cruz had some books and publications he thought might interest Baron. Cruz was invited to Baron's home. Phone 562-37-46.

23 July 1968: Mrs. Marta Tamayo tried to reach Mercedes de Cruz.

24 August 1968: One Carlos Perez, believed to be from Prensa Latina, was trying desperately to reach Jesus at home.

September 1968: One "Maruja" was calling Cruz at home. She said they would meet "at the same time and place agreed on".

September 1968: One Sylvia called and left word she would meet Cruz for Sunday breakfast at Sanborns on Durango. (May be clandestine contact Sylvia Duran.)

February 1968: Sanchez McGregor of the University of Puebla, was receiving packages of university material from Cuba via Cruz.

May 1968: Ma. Teresa Chagoya, of the Asociacion de la Juventud de Oaxaca, stopped by the Embassy to see Cruz.

Sr. Bernard Diederich (P-3851), Life/Time correspondent in Mexico, was invited by Cruz to a film showing at the Embassy.

Jorge Godoy of the Teatro Coyoacan, borrows film from Cruz.

October 1968: maid said Mercedes went to lunch with some newsmen.

Jaime Casillas of AMEX assigned Habana, has been in touch with Cruz.

January 1969: Cruz was contacted by Carlos REBOLLEDO in Caracas. Rebolledo is from the Departamento de Cine, the University of Merida, Venezuela. They discussed Casa de las Americas matter. (MEXICO CITY 8828)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

13-00000

SECRET

-28-

11 January 1969: Anibal CORTINES, of the magazine
Punto Final of Chile, contacted Cruz. (MEXICO CITY 8712)
Jaime Delgado from Chihuahua.

January 1969: Miss Valentina BORREMAN, Cuernavaca
Phone 2-45-90.

17 January 1969: Fernando CASTILLO, from Guatemala,
contacted Cruz for a visa.

25 January 1969: Margarita BAUCHE, protest singer,
was inviting group together. Bauche's sister contacted
Cruz to come to cocktail party for cultural revolutionary
groups.

4 March 1969: Sr. Villalba of Coyoacan, identifying
himself as LUJUAN (ph), called Cruz. Cruz agreed to
see him late that Thursday.

26 April 1969: Prof Rosenthan of UNAM, Prof of
electronics, promised to call Cruz and stop by and
see him.

3 May 1969: Mario Aurelio ESPITIA (P-13,505) in Morelia,
Michoacan, contacted Cruz re a cultural week in Morelia.
(LI ENVOY)

24 June 1969: Cruz invited Victor SANDOVAL of
Aguascalientes, phone 3443, to go to Cuba. (LIENVOY)

20 April 1970: Cruz called Paris, France, KLE 5230, for
Arnold WALL. Operator said noone answered the Embassy
or Residence phones. (LI ENVOY)

20 April 1970: Mario GODOY of Novedades.

21 April 1970: Jorge VIVEROS insisted on talking
to Cruz. He was finally given an appointment.

21 April 1970: Jorge SALDAÑA of Televicentro was
referred to Cruz to get a visa to visit Cuba for a story.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

-29-

June 1970: Haydee Alemán de Rodriguez, Dept. de
Pesquera, Banco Industrial de Peru, sent a letter
to Jesus, marked on envelope "para Jaime". Letter
was for her brother, Jaime Aleman in Cuba.

July 1970: Cruz ordered an olive green bush hat and
bush jacket from LITAINT-2, with web belt, guerrilla
dagger, and 8 utensil knife like that used by boy scouts.

9 July 170: ate lunch with Argentine Maximo SIMPSON,
3-6 p.m. Chalet Italiano (SIMPSON is Argentine with
long leftist record. In medical publication business
in Mexico.)

24 July 1970: LIMUD: Mercedes got a letter from a
Georgine VIERA, Calle 110- No, 302-3, Miramor, Marinao.

10 August 1970: Cruz took a long distance call from
Patzcuaro from Esteban ATLAS who asked for Cruz.
Cruz denied he was in.

5 September 1970: (Thursday) Cruz and Carlos Ferreira
of Prensa Latina planned to visit the beach together
Sunday. Then Gabriela called Cruz from Prensa Latina
to tell him the Press Club planned to visit Taxco
Sunday. Not known which Cruz finally did.

8 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz called Domeo in
Havana re 3 packages he had sent to Cuba of printing
materials--duplimats, pencils, tapes, erasers, etc.
Cruz said he had received the money.

Later that same day Cruz called Prensa Latina and
talked with Ferreira regarding the things sent for
Dacourt. Ferreira said the first package held 300
maters, 13 erasers, 6 pencils, corredor, and 400
DUPLIMATS. 2nd package held 30 tapes, 1,000 DUPLI MATS,
and still outstanding were 2 erasers, 600 DUPLIMATS.
Cruz asked for the bills..

10 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz called NY from
his home, talked with Haydee Piedra Cueva re info on
Cruz' request for 2 Phillips model 4408 semi professional
tape recorders.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

SECRET

-30-

14 September 1970: LIENVOY: Antonio ROSETTE asked for Cruz and whether the material had arrived on Monday's flight.--Had not.

14 September 1970: LIENVOY: Francisco Mora (541-2852) artist, wanted to introduce Cruz to Raul KAMPFNER,
Director of Cine.

15 September 1970: LIENVOY: Antonio Rosette called Cruz to see if the material he had filmed (presumably in Cuba) had arrived. Cruz said he would query Cuba and would go to Rosette's house on Thursday the 17th, alone, to discuss this. Rosette phones: 549-49-55; 516-01-58.

15 September 1970: Alberto LOPEZ called Cruz at the Embassy. Cruz not in.

15 September 1970: Maria Eugenia Saul called Cruz at the Embassy, not in.

15 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz called Prensa Latina. Roger MENENDEZ was there so Cruz talked to him. Roger said Cruz was hard worker as never could find him. Agreed to talk next week to make a date to get together.

15 September 1970: LIFEAT: 8:49 Mercedes calls Cruz at the office, not in. She left word people were in the apartment waiting for Cruz. (Had supper engagement, presumably at home.)

17 September 1970: LIENVOY: Prof. Edelberto TORRES was at the Embassy looking for Cruz at noon. (Comment: Possibly connected with series of talks TORRES sponsored at UNAM on Chile, pro-Cuba and/pro-Commie.)

17 September 1970: LIFEAT: Avila Camacho took an envelope to Cruz' apartment. Cruz was at Prensa Latina.

17 September 1970: LIFEAT: Carlos Carrillo called Cruz at home, Cruz not in.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

-31-

17 September 1970: Cruz called Sr. Jerez at Tampico, phone 22466.

17 September 1970: In background conversation from phone call at home, could be overheard following:
Mercedes was complaining to Cruz that everyone at the Embassy gave her work to do while others play around. Cruz told her not to pay any attention to Angel.

Cruz then called Sr. Jerez, Cia Villasana, 2-24-66, Tampico, Customs Brokers, re shipment from Holand. He needed info to get the franchise to get a shipment of 2 record players and one TV through customs. Cruz was told to call the Representaciones Maritimas in Mexico City, Avenida Juarez 42, Edificio D-11th floor and they would notify the Tampico office.

Later Cruz called airlines to see about air freight from Tampico.

18 September 1970: LIFEAT: Cruz çálled from home to Havma 30-49-70, Araceli (Arita) Herrero to see what happened to the things, she was to send him. She told Cruz they were ready but not picked up. Cruz told her to call "Papo" in the pouch section and have him send it to Cruz.

18 September 1970: Cruz from home called Prensa Latina to discuss new subscriptions he wanted from Panama and Caracas. Also ordered the Xerox machine to be changed.

18 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz met the Cubana flight.

19 September 1970: Sr. Arredondo, Morelos #5, Apt. 3. Tlalnepantla, Edo. de Mexico, contacted Cruz to say he was going to have a Cine Club at the Municipal Cmte of the PRI. Cruz promises film. Cruz promises to see Arredondo the next week to coordinate a trip to the interior.

19 September 1970: Luna called Cruz to go over to his apartment. (ca. 5:30 afternoon)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

-32-

21 September 1970: Cruz indicated he would not be in the next day, Mirabal would take his place. He went out of town, not known where.

21 September 1970: Cruz called Tampico and Canada from his apartment again.

21 September 1970: Avila Camacho offered Cruz his projection room (probably at Banco).

21 September 1970: LIFEAT: Woman outside (Marina de Corrales) called Cruz to give him her new address. Amsterdam 302. She had something to tell Cruz.

22 September 1970: Miguel DONOSO called Cruz to see if Cruz had received a word from his daughter. Cruz said no. Cruz then tells Donoso re showing of film at Teatro Orientacion, Thursday, 5:30 and would see him there.

23 September 1970: Domeo in Havana called Cruz to get the price on 400 boxes of photographic paper agfa-gebaer BS-1, 8.24 cmts.

22 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz talked with Moya re a new Bell and Howell 16mm projector.

22 September 1970: Cruz called Sr. Tomeo of COR Nacional.

23 September 1970: LIENVOY: Havana told Cruz the U.S. $2,800 was deposited for Cruz to buy the photographic material from Gustavo Tomeo.

23 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz called Aurora Velasco and Antonio ROSETTE (549-49-85) to invite them to a special film showing 24 September.

23 September 1970: Jesus and Mercedes worked at Embassy until 19:30.

23 September 1970: LIENVOY: Cruz called Quebec re the purchase in Canada of tape recorders.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

-33-

24 September 1970: Cruz spoke with Jerez of Villasena
y Cia re packages in Tampico. There was a problem
with the markings.

24 September 1970: Embassy movie 17:30
at Teatro Orientaciones.

25 September 1970: Got call from Raul CHIN, made
arrangements visit Cruz at Embassy.

29 September 1970: Went to official despedida of
Luna (all evening affair).

28 September 1970: Discussed with Mercedes at Embassy
doing some newspaper clippings.

29 September 1970: Called Imprenta Madera, spoke with
Sra. Neus Estresate, said he left 2 packages of books
on Che at the gatehouse. He had promised her these.

30 September 1970: Attended cocktails at Foreign Press
Club.

30 September 1970: Went to LITAINT-2's home 2:40
to pick up clothing for his children that LITAINT-2
had supposedly brought from States. Cruz and wife would
stop by later in evening about 9:00 p.m. for the things,
but did not show. Cruz took the tennis racquet,
promising to pay later.

17 September 1970: Antonio Nuñez Jimenez, President
of the Cuban Academy of Sciences, wrote "Compañero
Jesus Cruz Gonzalez', thanking him for sending the
Academy a copy of the book "Submarine Geology".

17 September 1970: Israel Garcia Avila, Director of the
Instituto de Biologia wrote to Comp. Jesus Cruz Gonzalez
thanking Cruz for the packages of books. (This is
under the Cuban Academy of Science). The books were
from the Biblioteca del Congreso of USA. Apparently
some books were missing that had been listed on the
shipment. The Director lists this and would like to
know what happened. Examples are:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

-34-

Carl P. Swanson, *The Cell*, 1969.

William L. Homes, *Drugs affecting lipid metabolism*, 1969.

G.E. Nelson, *Fundamental concepts of biology*, 1970.

Karl Stiles, *College zoology*, 1970.

October 1970: See attached log.

4 November 1970: Ferreira set up a meeting in evening for Cuz and heads of Excelsior--got rum from the Embassy for the party.

12. Work schedule:

LISAMPAN/BAKER: June 1968: Mercedes complained that Jesus Cruz always had something to do--was always busy.

Cruz and Mercedes both arrive at work early--leave about 2:00 for lunch, then return later in the afternoon.

13. Lunch and rest periods:

Cruz and Mercedes often go home just for a quick lunch. Then have a meeting, or back to the office.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

-35-

14. Times, routes, vehicles, from lodgings to and from work:

Cruz almost always drives to the office in his QP.

Mercedes drives with him usually. Otherwise, she takes a cab or bus.

Seldom does anyone other than Mercedes accompany Cruz.

15. Travel:

| Date      | Who                          | From      | To        | Why                                                             |
| --------- | ---------------------------- | --------- | --------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 20 Nov 67 | Cruz                         | Cuba      | Mexico    | PCS                                                             |
| 23 Feb 68 | Cruz                         | Mexico    | Cuba      |                                                                 |
| 1 Mar 68  | Cruz                         | Cuba      | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 16 May 68 | Cruz, Mercedes               | Mexico    | Merida    | Invited by Governor to Technological school inauguration        |
| 27 May 68 | Cruz                         | Mexico    | Cuba      |                                                                 |
| 7 June 68 | Cruz                         | Cuba      | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 29 Nov 68 | Cruz                         | Mexico    | Cuba      |                                                                 |
| 2 Dec 68  | Cruz                         | Cuba      | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 31 Jan 69 | Cruz, Mercedes, 2 boys, maid | Mexico    | Cuba      | vacation                                                        |
| 28 Feb 69 | Cruz, Mercedes, 2 boys       | Cuba      | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 7 Mar 69  | maid                         | Cuba      | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 17 Apr 69 | Cruz                         | Mexico    | Monterrey | visited Cultural Institute, Monterrey                           |
| 18 Apr 69 | Cruz                         | Monterrey | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 4 July 69 | Cruz                         | Mexico    | Cuba      |                                                                 |
| 7 July 69 | Cruz                         | Cuba      | Mexico    |                                                                 |
| 5 Sept 69 | Cruz                         | Mexico    | Vancouver | Arrived Paris from London 6 Sept., left for Prague 9 September. |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

-36-

| Date       | Who                    | From   | To     | Why                    |
| ---------- | ---------------------- | ------ | ------ | ---------------------- |
| 20 Sept 69 | Mercedes, 2 boys       | Mexico | Cuba   | Mercedes to give birth |
| 15 Dec 69  | Cruz                   | Cuba   | Mexico |                        |
| 2 Jan 70   | Cruz                   | Mexico | Cuba   |                        |
| 23 Jan 70  | Cruz, Mercedes, 3 sons | Cuba   | Mexico |                        |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

-37-

16. Subject's access to safes:

August 1968: Mercedes was trying to finish a "confidential" in time for the pouch. She reportedly is in charge of all classified material in the Embassy. She is known to have safes in her room. (LISAMPAN, LITAMIL-7)

17. Passes or keys carried:

October 1968: Mercedes left the keys in her raincoat pocket at home. Had to go after them in order to "open everything up". (LIFEAT)

18. Professional reputation:

Jesus:

201-784463

28 April 1968: Lino Salazar Cuban Consul in Veracruz, had arranged a big innauguration for the Cultural Institute there with plans for the Ambassador to attend. When he contacted the Ambassador directly, the latter said Cruz had mentioned nothing and therefore, the Ambassador already had plans. (HMMA 34634)

May 1968: A Mexican called the Embassy and Ambassador to complain about Cruz and how he was handling the matters of the ballet, etc. The complaint centerd on the propaganda for the cultural events--program drafts were full of errors, arrived late at the printers. He also complained he could never find Cruz, and Cruz didn't understand the problems. Ambassador promised to speak to Cruz.

June 1968; Someone from Morelia asked the Ambassador for a written report inviting Mexican artisans and ballet (presumably to Cuba). Hernandez knew nothing about the plans.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

-38-

June 1968: In connection with Cuban Olympic cultural performances Cruz complained that the Cubans didn't give him adequate photos, catalogues, etc., and the Cubans complained Cruz didn't give them information on itinerary. Said Cruz should have given more details on what was needed. LIFEAT

7 May 1970: Venezuelan newspaperman Ciro Medina complained to a Prensa Latina contact that Jesus Cruz was a little "slow" (inefficient) and didn't know the score. He had had Medina's papers for a visa for a week and hadn't touched them. (LIENVOY)

Mercedes seems to be quite efficient, and Jesus seems to depend a lot on her in his work.

F. Control Data

1. Family difficulties:

None. Cruz lets Mercedes run the show.

2. Difficulties in office:

Cruz: none

September 1970: Mercedes complained to Cruz that everyone at the Embassy gave her work to do while others played around. Cruz told her not to pay any attention to Angel (Morales, Charge and her boss).

3. Difficulties with friends:

Avoids people he owes money to until he pays them back.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

-39-

4. Persons to whom most attached:

5. Material things to which most attached:

6. Information which could be used to blackmail:

7. Information which could be used to shock or depress:

He could be shocked by potential loss of salary or potential Prensa Latina flap, which is his greatest fear.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

-40-

G. Psychological Assessment

1. Appearance, habits and mannerisms:

a) Appearance:

1) Describe personal appearance:

Mercedes pays a lot of attention to the way people dress and she pays a lot of attention to her own dress and that of the children. She pays a lot of attention to her hair and spends a lot of time at the beauty parlor.

Cruz is always neat.

2) Describe ordinary style of dress--undressing and clothes in general:

August 1968: LIFEAT: Maid said Cruz was changing his shirts twice a day but leaves them black because does not take a bath.

August 1968: Maid said Cruz has two suits. Brought one with him, had one made in Mexico which cost more than 1,000 pesos.

Cruz' spend a lot on clothes.

b) Expressiveness:

1) How expressive? Gestures? etc.:

Uses gestues and expressions to prove point. (LITAINT-2

The sister says that Cruz is agreeable, affectionate with his family, especially with his parents.

Mercedes is very talkative and communicative. (LIFEAT/LISAMPAN)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

-41-

2) Signs of tension:

Nervous, always worried about flaps.

3) Use of profanity:

No.

2. Health and Stamina:

1) What is general state of health?

Both Mercedes and Cruz and the children seem to be quite healthy.

3. Skills:

a. What specific skills or abilities does he possess:

Mercedes takes dictation and types. The telex was installed in her office for a time, and it is believed she can run a telex.

4. Interpersonal behavior:

a. Typical social behavior--natural, comfortable, warm, shy, passive, etc.

LIFEAT - 16 August 1968: Cuban maid said Mercedes puts on a good act with visitors--i.e., that she is happy to see them.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

-42-

31 July 1968: Maid reported that when a man came to visit whom Mercedes knew very well, Mercedes did not lift a hand to help Clara. But when a man came whom Mercedes did not know too well, she tries to impress the man by working in the kitchen to impress the man with her feelings of equality.

Maid said Mercedes does not like visitors. She does not go along with the confraternity idea and of establish- ing good relations with one's comrades. Mercedes does not want this at her house.

When being introduced to a stranger, Cruz is very business-like.

5. Summary of estimate of his poise and self assurance:

Mercedes appears to have a strong personality. From her language she does not appear to be well-bred. The low-level Embassy employee on ocasion kidded her about being mulatto. (ΗΜΜΑ 36767)

6. Family Orientation:

Transcribers note: Cruz often gives his wife work, He relies on his wife. He talks fast, and sounds domineering when talking to his wife. (BLAZEK).

29 March 1968: Mercedes explained Cruz was going to Monterrey and she couldn't go. In Cuba he never wanted to take her. (Apparently on business trips). LISAMPAN/BAKER.

June 1968: Mercedes recounted in a dream she mentioned the name "Oscar" just as Jesus arrived home from outside and overheard her. He got furious. (He is very jealous). When Mercedes asked if Cruz didn't trust her, he said "the danger is in over-confidence"

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SECRET

-43-

August 1968: (BAKER): Mercedes told a fellow female worker that no matter how much you love your mother and father, when you are married, you have your husband.

21 August 1968: (BAKER): Mercedes says she believes you should be with your husband. That is why she is married--to live with her husband. She left Cuba with her husband even though she knew her Mother would miss her. Mercedes and Jesus were separated once, and she said it was not good for them nor the children.

ΗΜΜΑ 36071 (BAKER): Mercedes is very loving with her children and pampers them a lot.

BLAZEK: February 1969: Mercedes worries about her sons, but sometimes has to scold the eldest because he behaves badly in school (classes in the Embassy). Since school is in the Embassy he is often in her office with her.

Mercedes has mentioned the problem of the children being influenced by TV programs, and she said she intended to send the boys to Cuba with her mother in the event she stays much longer in Mexico. She doesn't want them to acquire bad capitalistic habits.

Mercedes often quarrels with her husband in the office over the fact that he gives her too much work to do. She claims she is over-worked anyway.

LISAMPAN/BAKER: 5 September 1968: Mercedes tells fellow-employee that she (Mercedes) does not have to ask permission from Jesus to buy something unless it is a large investment.

LISAMPAN/BAKER: Cruz entered the office, asked for a kiss, and Mercedes replied, "Tu me quieres nada más para que te resuelva todos los lios que tu formas". (You only love me because of the messes I have to get you out of.)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

-44-

LISAMPAN/BAKER: 12 November 1968: When Mercedes
was on the phone with the maid, Santa, the conversation
appeared to concern gossip over Jesus' family. Mercedes
indicated that "that will change the matter, Jesus said
yesterday, we are going to maintain our distance, she
is just bringing a story, and there are many in Cuba
living in this way." Later Mercedes said her in-laws
were in Cuba and a problem. Mercedes tells a fellow-
employee the problem she has had with Jesus' family.
They were very religious, and racists. When the
Revolution was a success, they wanted Jesus to obtain
jobs for all of them, and Jesus told them he hadn't
made the Revolution to get jobs for them. They had to
resolve their own problems. Her mother-in-law hadn't
wanted Jesus to marry Mercedes and did not attend the
wedding. Later Mercedes said, "it seems clear that
when she (probably the sister Digna) came it is because
the vieja (mother-in-law?) has asked for a visa.
(See HMMA 36071)

In view of UFAA 603, this conversation is probably
referring to the visit of Digna, Jesus' sister to Cuba
to see about visas for the family to get out of Cuba.
Per UFAA 603, Digna was in Mexico in November 1968 and
saw Cruz at the Embassy re visas. She begged him to
help her so that these relatives could leave Cuba, and
Cruz refused. He said he also wanted his parents with
him, but he could do nothing to help them. (Source:
sister, commented she believed Jesus probably did not
want his parents to leave Cuba as it might compromise
him or might affect his own (wife and children) family's
freedom to leave Cuba with him.)

UFAA 603: Sister believed Mercedes has great
influence on Jesus..

b. Miscellaneous:

Mercedes' personality:

April 1968: Mercedes complained that when she arrived
home in the eveing she had to wash diapers. Complained
about the soap in Mexico, and the high cost of living.
(LISAMPAN/BAKER).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

-45-

June 1968: Clara (Cuban maid) said that they didn't iron the sheets here. Clara does not iron much, but Mercedes helps with the washing and ironing. They send most of the things to the laundry, especially the things that need ironing (like shirts).

Mercedes also helps Clara in the kitchen some.

Baker: August 1968: Mercedes says she worries, but knows it won't solve anything, so doesn't let herself suffer.

Mercedes' attitude toward Mexico:

1968: She believed that Cubans in Mexico had to be careful of themselves and their children as there was personal risk because they are Cubans.

She doesn't like Mexico because of the high robbery rate, the fact that children are "stolen" and disappear.

She complains about the poverty in Mexico, especially in the small pueblos, the fact the people go barefoot, beg, about the poverty in general.

Mercedes thinks that when one reaches 35 years old, you are on the downhill.

c. What are feelings about family when they are separated?

Mercedes claims to miss Cruz when he is away. She says she is lonely.

December 1968: When Jesus was in Guadalajara, apparently to a cultural event, he called Mercedes to see about the family, and to leave messages for the office. He told her he would call her every evening--collect.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

-46-

7. Personal and professional goals:

a. What seems to be his general life goals?

Keep active physically and stay on in diplomatic work.

b. To what extent is he motivated by self interest? family interest? etc:

UFAA 603: Jesus' sister said Mercedes is the type of person who likes to live well without working. The sister commented she took a Cuban maid with her.

(Mexico City Station Comment: Since all the Cubans in Mexico have maids, but Mexican ones, to whom they pay about the same as Mercedes pays the Cuban, do not believe this indicates Mercedes is lazy. As a matter of fact, she pitches in more than most of the Cuban señoras.)

Sister said Cruz is capable of extensive personal sacrifice for a cause. She believes he is not primarily interested in salary and position, but he is an idealist.

c. What are his personal pursuits, sources of satisfaction, hobbies, avocations, etc:

Hunting, swimming, fishing, skin diving, jai alai tennis.

d. What are his pet peeves, complaints, grievances?

Unknown

e. Is he receptive to new ideas? Tolerant?

Yes

f. Compare him with the "typical man".

A cut above the normal man (LITAINT-2).

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)