# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## SECRET

21 MAY 1982
US/82/71

Dear Anthony,

Regarding your letter (6/705) of 10 May 1982, our records indicate that Valeriy Vladimirovich Kostikov traveled to Mexico, France, Spain, the U.S. and Cuba during the period 1959-61. In 1961, he was assigned permanently to Mexico City as a consular officer and served there until August 1965. He was variously described as a translator, vice-consul, and attache. During this tour he attempted to cultivate a U.S. Government employee assigned to our embassy in Mexico City.

In September/October 1963, Lee Harvey Oswald approached the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City in an attempt to get a visa allowing him to return to the USSR. Kostikov, as a consular officer, handled this visa request. We have no information which indicates any relationship between these individuals other than for the purpose of Oswald's making his visa request.

Kostikov returned to Mexico City for a second tour of duty in July 1968. During this tour he was again assigned to the consular section and was a second secretary. It appeared that he was tasked with following the activities of the Central American communist parties and left-wing groups, and he met often with members of these groups, reportedly providing them with funds and technical guidance. In July/August 1969, Kostikov made an unusual TDY trip to Moscow lasting three weeks. (His family remained in Mexico.) In July 1970 he made a four-day trip to Havana.

Kostikov's tour in Mexico ended unexpectedly in September 1971. Our information indicated that he was not due to leave for another three to four months, and at the time of his departure, there was some speculation that the suddenness of his departure was due to the fact that he was known to Lyalin.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

While in Mexico he was considered by some to be the most effective and dangerous of intelligence officers in Mexico. He has been described as being without morals, education, and manners. Shortly after his arrival in Mexico in 1968, he was arrested in front of a house of prostitution after becoming involved in a fist fight with some locals. It appears this incident did not affect his position in Mexico City, despite the fact that it received a good deal of press coverage.

We are aware only that Kostikov arrived in Beirut in June 1978. We are unable to confirm his presence there now.

Although our file indicates that Kostikov may have been a member of Department 13 (Executive Action) (Department V's predecessor), we have been unable to confirm this. Also, to the best of our knowledge the KGB has not engaged in such executive action since 1959.

Sincerely,

/s/ David

David H. Blee

Mr. Anthony C. M. DeVere

PHOTO ATTACHED

DDO/CI/RA/Joan Paxson (21 May 1982)

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig & 1 - Adse
1 - CI/RA Chrono
1 - 100-2-95
1 - Reading Board
1 - Paxson

![photo description]

SECRET

1.00-2-95


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)