2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(                                                   SECRET                                                )

November 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC)

Encrypted AMBUD

Job # 64-239/53

File #19-124-25

Inclusive Dates: 61 thru 64

Volumes: 14

1. Desæription:

A organization formed in New York City on 22 March 1961 under the guidance of the U.S. Government for the purpose of unifying the various exile groups in the U.S. File smacks of exile disappointment in U.S. Government's policy which seemed to abandon plans to liberate Cuba. (See attached.) Material concerns resignations, coalitions, agreements, in-fighting, political aspirations of the various players,. organizational structure and financing.

2. Findings:

WAVE 6617 (IN 98730) dated 1 April 1963:

Cable from WAVE to Headquarters. Stated that the exile colony is in an uproar over notices to the Cuban exile action leaders prohibiting travel outside of Dade County. Reaction among exiles appears universal over this issue and was anti-U.S. and anti-Kennedy. Even though notices only sent to selected leaders, the order was interpreted as applicable to all exiles and the beginning of co-existence.

LAD/JFK Task Force

Attachment:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

- 2 -

b. UFGA 3926 dated 1 May 1962: 19-124-25

Dispatch from JMWAVE to Headquarters, which forwarded (not attached) a paper prepared within the Station on-the subject of the restructurization and revitalization of the C.R.C. Noted that the Station had major concern with regard to the extent and scope of non-CIA support, in the clandestine field, to the CUBAN exiles and to the CUBAN underground. It would appeciate info furnished by Hqs. or other field stations."

(Marty Miller)-Researcher


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)