2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO.97-6569968

SECRET
-SENSIND.; RYBAT

SECRET

PAGE: 1

FRP: 2,

STAFF

ACTION: LA/CAGRR (147) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEGLA, CIC/LA, DDO/WO, IID,
IIDIRPS, LA/CAGAB, LA/RR, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, ODPR, RYBAT,
FILE, C/LA, DC/LA (3/W)

97 6569968 PAGE 001 IN 6569968
ASP TOR: 102355Z JAN 97 BOGO 72820

SECRET 102350Z JAN 97 STAFF

CITE BOGOTA 72820

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/CAGRR INFO LA/CAGAB, CIC/LA, LA/RR, IID

SLUGS: WNINTEL INTEL ZRWAHOO LWDISSEM

SUBJECT: ACCOMPANYING OPS CABLE FOR HLB-15257

REF: A. BOGOTA
B. BOGOTA 72819 97 6569966 (HLB-15257)

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: REQUEST UPGRADE OF GIDARK/56'S ACCESS DESCRIPTION, PER PARA THREE-BELOW.

2. GIDARK/56 (D/56) COLLECTED REF INFORMATION IN THE COURSE OF HER DUTIES AS PERSONAL ASSISTANT TO DIRECTOR OF COLOMBIAN ARMY INTELLIGENCE JAIRO DURAN ((PINEDA)) NINO. D/56 RECEIVED THE REMARKS ON WHICH REF IS BASED DURING LATE DECEMBER CONVERSATIONS WITH COL PINEDA, INCOMING INTEL CHIEF COLONEL REYNALDO ((CASTELLANOS)) AND DIRECTLY FROM GENERAL MANUEL ((BONETT)). D/56 HEARD BONETT'S COMMENT *ABOUT DEA'S INVOLVEMENT IN THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>DIRECTLY FROM HIM DURING A LATE DECEMBER MEETING. D/56 ALSO SPOKE TO BONETT'S PUBLIC RELATIONS ADVISOR MONICA ((HARA)), AND TO GENERAL HAROLD ((BEDOYA)). D/56 SPEAKS TO HARA AND PINEDA REGULARLY IN THE COURSE OF HER NORMAL DUTIES AND D/56 SPOKE TO BONETT AND BEDOYA IN LATE DECEMBER HOLIDAY PARTIES. D/56 PASSED REF TO C/O STOCKMIER ON 8 JAN 97 DURING A REGULARLY SCHEDULED_OPS MEETING.

3. REF PROPOSED SOURCE DESCRIPTION UPGRADES D/56'S ACCESS FROM INDIRECT TO GOOD. D/56 TOLD C/O STOCKMIER THAT SHE KNOWS NEW ARMY INTELLIGENCE DIRECTOR CASTELLANOS, HAS SPOKEN TO HIM, AND HAS ACCEPTED HIS OFFER TO KEEP EMPLOYING HER AFTER PINEDA LEAVES FOR MOSCOW IN COMING WEEKS. GIVING THIS CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT, WE THINK HER ACCESS IS FAIRLY DESCRIBED AS GOOD IN REPORTS ABOUT THE ARMY. IN REPORTS ABOUT OTHER NON-ARMY TOPICS WE PROPOSE CONTINUED USE OF "INDIRECT" ACCESS IN HER SOURCE DESCRIPTION.

4. REF IS ORCON BECAUSE IT HAS_REMARKS MADE PRIVATELY BY BONETT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 97-6569968

SECRET
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 2

HIMSELF, AND ACCESS TO SENIOR OFFICERS WHO ARE CLOSE TO BOTH BONETT AND BEDOYA.

5. FILE: GIDARK/56. CL BY 2171434; CL REASON 1.5 (C);. DECL
   OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)