# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: FE/CIOP

UNIT: 560

EXT:

DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

INDEX

NO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO.201-736751

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

C/FL 6

INFO: A DP/CT, C/FI "2", C/WH 5, D/OS 2, RF, IVR

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXI

XXX

KAPOK LCHARVEST

REF MEXI 6483 (IN 38148)

1. LIANG SZU CHI'ENG 2733 1335 2052, 201-736701 SOME 1301, T.Y.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH. MEMBER CCP.

BACKGROUND:

1923 BA TSINGHUA UNIV

28 BA, MA UNIV PEKIN

29 MA HARVARD

28-31 PROF AT NATIONAL NORTHEASTERN UNIV, CHLIA
RESEARCH

31-41 RESEARCH FELLOW, INSTITUTE/CHINESE ARCHITEC URB.

32-33 PROF NATIONAL PEKING UNIV; PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA

UNIV, PEKING
RESEARCH

41-43 RESEARCH FELLOW, ACADEMIA SINICA

46 PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV, PEKING

47 HONORARY PHD YALE: VISITING PROF YALE

50-61 MEMBER OF TSINGHUA UNIV

55-61 HEAD OF DEPT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ARCHITEC

TSINGHUA; VICE PRESIDENT ARCHITECTURE SOC. CTY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

CITE DIR 75338

ROUTING

DEFERRED

ROUTINE

Coord No 15912


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIG: BEGX-FRANK
UNIT: FR/CIOD
EXT : 5661
DATE: 12 October 1963

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

[Figure: Routing table with numbers in each box]

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONE:
INFO:

PAGE TWO

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXI
INFO: CITE DIR 7538

56 ASSOC, INSTITUTE CIVIL AND ARCHITECTURAL

DEC 58 MEMBER STANDING COMMITTEE, CHINA GENERAL COMMITTEE, CHINA DEMOCRATIC LEAGUE

SEP 50 MEMBER NATIONAL COMMITTEE CHINA SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL ASSOC

APR 53 DEPUTY SECOND NATIONAL PEOPLE'S CONGRESS FROM PEKING; MEMBER STANDING COMMITTEE, THIRD NATIONAL COMMITTEE CPPCC

OCT 62 VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY

SEP 63 DEPUTY LEADER OF CPR DELEGATION TO SEVENTH INTER- NATIONAL CONGRESS OF ARCHITECTS, HAVANA

2. HE SELF CRITICISM FOLLOWING EXTRACTS FROM LIANG'S SPEECH TO THE HPC, JULY 13 1957 ENTITLED "WHY I LOVE OUR PARTY". DEPUTY LIANG, AFTER DESCRIBING "THE BRILLIANT INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL, SCIENTIFIC, AND CULTURAL ACHIEVEMENTS OF OUR NATION," TOLD OF HIS PAST ANXIETY AND PERPLEXITY IN HIS OWN WORK. HE SAID THAT AT THE TIME HE HAD USED OUT-DATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES TO TEACH THE YOUNG INSTRUCTORS AND STUDENTS OF THE TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY BECAUSE HE WAS BOTHERED

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

(CONTINUED)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG:
UNIT: FE/CIOP
EXT: 5661
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

ROUTING

TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

PAGE THREE

TO: IMMEDIATE
INFO:
CITE DIR

BY THE STATEMENT THAT EVERYTHING OF THE PARTY WAS GOOD. HE SAID WHAT AFTER HE HAD WRITTEN ARTICLES, MADE REPORTS, AND DELIVERED LECTURES ON HIS ARTICULATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES, HE SUDDENLY DISCOVERED THAT HE WAS A RATIONAL TARGET FOR REPUTATION. HE SAID "I WAS DOWNHEARTED. I HAVE NO QUARREL WITH THE PARTY."

I WAS SURE I WAS BEING SUBJECTED TO CRITICISM BECAUSE MY ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES DID NOT FIT INTO THE NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM. MY FATE WAS AS DEEP AS THAT OF A CHILD BEING PUNISHED BY HIS MOTHER. NOW, BECAUSE I TRUSTED OUR PARTY AS MUCH AS I HAD TRUSTED MY FATHER. THE PARTY, HOWEVER, WAS VERY PATIENT WITH ME. AFTER I CAL STRAIGHTENED OUT MY BROWSING, I ADMITTED MY MISTAKES."

HE SAID: "I WAS A PRODIGAL SON. AFTER THIS EDUCATION, I WILL NEVER HAVE OUR PARTY --- NOT EVEN A STEP AWAY FROM ME."

(CONTINUED)

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Copy No.
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

ORIG FICKY PRANK
UNP FB/CIOP
EXT: 5661
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

TO:

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

PAGE FOUR

TO: IMMEDIATE MECI INFO CITE DIR 75338

3. STPLATE 1 (IBEN) WAS CONTACTED UNDER LIARS AT UNIV YALE OF OPINION THAT *LIANG* WOULD NOT ACCEPT REASSIGNMENT IN PLACE BUT THERE IS CHANCE HE WOULD DEFECT IF ORDERED CHANGE LIARS UNDER COMMUNIST CHINA. HOA CONSIDERS *LIANG* AS: CANDIDATE FOR IDENTIFYING OR RECRUITING. SPENTFUL, USE ACR AND BACKGROUND-SEAL; WOULD MAKE GOOD IN PLACE AGENT.

4. SENDING STPLATE 1 TO WORK UNDER STATION DIRECTION AS A POSSIBLE BRIDGE TO *LIANG*. STPLATE 1 LONG TIME HIDACS CONTACT BUT IS NOT TRAINED CASE OFFICER. HAS BEEN USED PRINCIPALLY IN BERCH BOOK IN PAST. AMNESED WILL FILL FURTHER BACKGROUND.

5. STPLATE 1 WILL USE TOURIST COVER AND WILL REMAIN ONLY TWO DAYS DUE HEAVY PERSONAL COMMITMENTS. HIS FUNCTION WILL BE TO USE PAST FRIENDSHIP TO ATTEMPT ESTABLISH CONTACT *LIANG* AND DETERMINE WHETHER *LIANG* INTERESTED DEFACTION. IF SO STATION SHOULD BE PREPARED SAFEHOUSE UNTIL FURTHER STEPS CAN BE TAKEN.

6. STPLATE 1 ARRIVING MECI 12 OCTOBER 2145 HOURS VIA EASTERN AIR LINES FLITE 305. HAVE BRIEFED HIM WILL BE MET BY SANHEKD. STPLATE 1

RELEASING OFFICER COORD RATING OFFICERS (CONTINUED)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
Coe, No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TE/CIOP
5661
12 OCTOBER 1963

SEGRET

INDEX
IN CS FILE NO

1
2
3

4
5
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

PAGE FIVE

DOCEDIATE MEXI

INFO

CITE CUR

WILL WEAR RED WHITE BLUE TIE. IT CONTACT KISSED STPLATE 1 TO PROCEED
CITY AND CONTACT MARINE QUARD AT EMBASSY ASKING FOR SARSEED AUTHORIZE
STATION ADVANCE OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND PER DIEM AS HECESSARY TO STPLATE i
SINCE NO OPPORTCHITY DO 80 HERE. CHARGE LCHARVEST COA.
END OF MESSAGE

FI Staff Lloyd George (by phone)

DC/PED/08 Steve Kuhn (by phone)

CI Staff M. Mertz (by phone)

DCFE(C)

C/WH/3 J. Whitten (by phone)

RAPOED MERRE
DC/WH/3

William C
CPE

SECRE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)