# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/25/

SECRET

APR 28 12 06 PM 78

FRP: ......

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CONF: IP/DP-9 INFO: FILE, RF, ODPD-D, (11/78)

78 0624404 PAGE 001 WASHINGT 213077

TOT: 271847Z APR 78

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH 271846Z WASHINGTON 213077

TO: BRUSSELS.

FROM: E/BNL INFO EUR/A, SA/DO/O, DC/E/NW

SUBJECT: WNINTEL NIFLAIR NIGALE FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS

1. THE HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS, IN CONNECTION WITH ITS INVESTIGATIONINTO DEATH OF MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR., HAS ASKED FOR INFORMATION IN RTACTION FILES ON A NUMBER OF INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANIZATIONS, INCLUDING FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS (VLAAMSE MILITANTENORDE - VMO). COMMITTEE REQUEST IS NOT LIMITED TO IMMEDIATE PERIOD SURROUNDING ASSASSINATION, BUT PRESUME ITS INTEREST FOCUSES ON ASSASSIN'S ESCAPE ROUTE AND SUPPORT HE OBTAINED WHILE IN EUROPE. WE HAVE NO INFORMATION ON HOW THE VMO CAME TO THE COMMITTEE'S ATTENTION.

2. WE NOTE THAT THE ONLY INFORMATION WE HAVE SO FAR DISCOVERED EVEN MENTIONING THE VMO IS THAT CONTAINED IN POSITIVE INTEL (NIGALE SEMI-ANNUAL REVIEWS OF EXTREMIST ACTIVITIES). WE HAVE NOT YET DREDGED THESE UP FROM LIBRARY IN VIEW NIGALE PROVISION OF THE MATERIAL.

3. WOULD LIKE TO BOTH HONOR COMMITTEE REQUEST AND PRESERVE RELATIONSHIP WITH NIGALE, IF POSSIBLE. THEREFORE, REQUEST YOU DISCUSS COMMITTEE REQUEST WITH NIGALE MANAGEMENT. DOES NIGALE HAVE ANY INFORMATION WHICH INDICATES A CONTACT BETWEEN THE VMO AND AMERICANS DURING PERIOD MARCH 1968 TO 1970? WOULD THEY BE WILLING PROVIDE IT? ALSO WOULD NIGALE PREPARE REPORT ON VMO FOR PASSAGE TO COMMITTEE?

PLEASE ALSO ASK NIGALE FOR PERMISSION TO PASS TO COMMITTEE VMO EXCERPTS FROM THE SEMI-ANNUAL REVIEWS, EITHER SOURCED TO NIGALE OR UNSOURCED IF NIGALE WOULD PREFER. PLEASE STRESS THAT ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED WILL BE CLASSIFIED AND HANDLED AS SENSITIVE.

4. FILE: 8-2-9/3. E2 IMPDET.>

ORIG: AC/E/BNL (KRUMVIEDE, 9384)/E/BNL/R (ALTHEA GUY, 9175);

COORD: SA/DO/O (MR. GREGG - IN SUBSTANCE), E/BNL/B (HARRIS), EUR/A (LACLAIR); REL: DC/E/NW (THOMPSON). CL BY 034537.

DO NOT REPRODUCE

RETURN TO CIA

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET #06321


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)