# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

13 December 1967

SUBJECT: BATISTA, Laureano
(See also DAVIS, Rudolph Richard)

## ALLEGATION:

Rudolph Richard DAVIS, Cuban exile questioned by GARRISON's staff in connection with a training camp for Cubans at Lacombe, Louisiana told the FBI in May 1964 that Laureano BATISTA, sent him 19 men from Miami in response to a request from DAVIS in 1963. The men stayed at a home near Lacombe, Louisiana.

## SOURCE:

Memorandum No. 5, Enclosures 3 and 7.

## CIA CONNECTION:

Laureano BATISTA, Secretary of Military Affairs, Executive Committee, Movimiento Democratica Cristiano (MDC), Miami, was granted a Provisional Operational Approval on 30 December 1959 and an Operational Approval on 20 February 1960 for use as a PP Agent, Havana, Cuba.

## OS INDICES RESULTS:

Subject, a 32 year old Cuban exile, was from a wealthy Cuban family and in Cuba he was a banker. He was granted a POA in December 1959 and an OA in February 1960 for use as a PP agent in Havana, Cuba.

A copy of a letter in Subject's file dated 22 November 1963 signed by Subject as Secretary for Military Affairs, Executive Committee, Movimiento Democrata Cristiano is addressed to Major General Bela K. KIRALY, President, Hungarian Freedom Fighters Federation, Inc., and offered the services of the MDC in arranging meetings and discussions with other anti-CASTRO organizations and the Hungarian Freedom Fighters. The Hungarian Freedom Fighters were Agency sponsored and Covert Action 24 Staff was interested in information on the MDC before granting approval for contact between the two organizations.

## DETAILS:

During an interview with the FBI in October 1963 in New York Rudolph Richard DAVIS advised that in January 1961 he was in New York where he served as coordinator between the MDC and the New York Police Department. DAVIS also said that some nineteen men had been sent from


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Miami to New Orleans by Laureano BATISTA in response to a request
by. DAVIS for men to work in a lumber business with which he was
connected in Guatemala. The men stayed at a home near Lacombe,
Louisiana. When the FBI seized dynamite and other explosives
nearby, the men became disgruntled and were unwilling to proceed to
Guatemala. So the lumber company paid their fare back to Miami.

Some of the names of these men were as follows: Victor
PANEQUE, Leodorino INTERIAN, Fernando FERNANDEZ, and fnu FORNES.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)