# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ORIG: H.F.SWENSON:sm
UNIT: TFW/SA
EXT: 7287
DATE: 14 JANUARY 1963

TO: SAN JOSE (INFO) JMWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: TFW 10

INFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, WH 7, s/c

TO: SJOS INFO WAVE

GYROSE CITE DIR: AMBUD

REF: A. SJOS 5487 NOT SENT WAVE (IN 48782)

B. SJOS 5486 NOT SENT WAVE (IN 48778)

1. PBRUMEN EXILES MIAMI DRAFTED TWO POLICE PROPOSALS NEITHER OF WHICH REALISTIC AND NEITHER DISCUSSED OFFICIALLY WITH KUBARK. ORGANIZATION OF STANDBY PBRUMEN SECURITY FORCES IMPORTANT BUT NOT URGENT UNTIL MATTER DISCUSSED OFFICIALLY AND FEASIBLE PLANS MADE. THEREFORE DO NOT WISH ENCOURAGE FURTHER PLANS WHICH MAY COMPLICATE ORDERLY DEVELOPMENT AND BURN ASSETS.

2. DESPITE ABOVE HQS INTERESTED ASSESSING POTENTIAL ANY ASSET IN PBRUMEN FOR INFO COLLECTION. REQUEST SJOS ADVISE DETAILS IDEN REF B ACCESS TO PEOPLE OR DATA OF OPS OR INTEL VALUE, HIS SECURITY, COLIMO AND TENTATIVE CONTACT PLAN.

(END OF MESSAGE)

![signature of J.C.KING]

J.C.KING
C/WII

RELEASING OFFICER 14.6

WII/3/COSTA RICA

C/WII/3

COORDINATING OFFERS

SECRET

![signature of E.A.MARELIUS]

E.A.MARELIUS
C/TFE/FI

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ORIG: II.F.SWENSON:sm

UNIT: TFW/SA

EXT: 7287

DATE: 14 JANUARY 1963

TO: JLWAVE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: TFW 10

INFO: DOP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, WH 7, S/C

TO WAVE

REF: DIR

10803

CITE DIR

10804

IDEN REF B MANUEL PEREZ BORROTO EX-BATISTA POLICE
CAPTAIN NOW CIENFUEGOS.

(END OF MESSAGE)

WH/3/COSTA RICA

J.C.KING
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

E.A.MARELIUS
C/TFW/FI

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)