# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

DATE : 27 MAY 62

ROUTING

TO : DIRECTOR

PA/PROP

FROM: JMWAVE

MAY 27 22162 62

ACTION: TFW 10(MR CHARLES MATT, TFW, NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1830 27 MAY)

INFO: DCI, DDP, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, S/C 2

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 41885

OPIM DIP CITE WAVE 4277

GYFOSE

1. MIAMI HERALD 27 MAY CARRIES FRONT PAGE ITEM BY JAMES BUCHANAN ENTITLED "MIRO FADES AS EXILE CHIEF: THREE LATIN LEADERS BEHIND RAY". ARTICLE FLATLY STATES VIDO AND COUNCIL HAVE BEEN REPLACED BY MANUEL RAY WITH. AKING GOV KONOZ MARIN, PRES ROGILO BETANCOURT AND FORMER PRES OF FIGUERAS, THAT SAY HAS TAKEN OVER POST "WITH THE BLESSING OF THE UNITED STATES". FURTHER, ARTICLES STATES "FROM VARIETY SOURCES HERALD LEASHED THAT MIRO WAS NOTIFIED OF CHANGE ONLY THIS WEEK AND THAT DAYS REAPPOINTMENT AS "CHIEF IN EXILE" CAME FROM "UNDERGROUND IN CUBA" ACCORDING TO JOAQUIN GODOY, PROVISIONAL MRP HEAD IN MIAMI. AFTER FURNISHING RESUME CUBAN ACTIVITIES SINCE ORIGIN OF AMRUD, ARTICLE CREDITS CUBANS IN MIAMI WITH SAYING "NEW MAN IN FIELD" IS ADOLF BERLE JR. WHO HAS BEEN SPECIAL ASST TO STATE DEPT AND IS ALSO MEMBER OF PRES KENNEDY'S SPECIAL TASK FORCE ON LATIN AMERICA". IMPLICATION BEING THAT BERLE IS RUNNING NEW UNITED STATES SPONSORED CUBAN EFFORT.

2. THIS RELEASE CAUSING SOME FUROP IN LOCAL CUBAN COLONY TO EXTENT LEAST ONE OPS AGENT DESTINED FOR (ISOLATION) TRAINING HAS ASKED TO BE BELIEVED IF THERE ANY TRUTH THIS STORY. MEANWHILE WAVE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE:

TO:

FROM:

ACTION:

INFO:

PAGE 2
WAVE 4077 IN 41885

CHECKS WITH KNOWLEDGEABLE CONTACTS HAS PRODUCED LITTLE OTHER THAN WILLIAM S. WIRALDA'S STATEMENT THAT BUCHANAN JOURNALISTIC REPUTATION INDICATES HE INACCURATE AND SENSATIONALIST. AMCLATTER-1 AND PASSOVOY

ATTEMPTING DISCREETLY TRACE BUCHANAN SOURCE FOR "U.S. BLESSING."

3. BUCHANAN HAS PREVIOUSLY ATTACKED MIRO IE DURING RETURN PLAYA

HAVE NO REAL INSIGHT INFO SIGNIFICANCE THESE
SIPON PRISONERS MIAMI.

ATTACKS BUT BELIEVE THEY COULD REFLECT BUCHANAN OR MIAMI HERALD

ATTEMPTS FORCE CHANGES IN UNITES STATES POSTURE RE CUBA.

4. EXPECT ARTICLE WILL HAVE FURTHER REPROCUSSIONS AS IT SPREADS.

WISH ALERT HOS THAT IT MAY BE NECESSARY INITIATE ACTION DISCREDIT BUCHANAN STORY AS WELL AS REASSURE MIRO. WILL FORWARD SUGGESTIONS THIS REGARD AFTER WE HAVE OPPORTUNITY FURTHER ASSESS STORY'S IMPACT.

5. POUCHING CLIPPING 28 MAY

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)