# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 94-8695408 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 1

FRP: STAFF

ACTION: LA/MCGMXB (373) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/LA, LA/TERR, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA, DC/LA (3/W)

94 8695408 ASR PAGE 001 IN 8695408
TOR: 022121Z DEC 94 MEXI 53620

CITE MEXICO CITY 53620 (NOWOCIN ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT LA/MCGMXB

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

*SUBJECT: <JFK ASSASSINATION>ISSUES

REF: DIRECTOR 932873 94 865598

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: NONE.

2. AS HQS IS AWARE, STATION CONTINUES TO CONDUCT JOINT TELTAP OPERATIONS WITH MEXICAN LIAISON AGAINST THE RUSSIAN AND CUBAN EMBASSIES; HOWEVER, THE TAKE ON THE CUBANS IS VERY LIMITED. WE ARE CURRENTLY IN THE PROCESS OF INITIATING A UNILATERAL TELTAP OP AGAINST THE CUBAN EMBASSY AND SEVERAL RESIDENCES. THUS, ANY OFFICIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF WHERE TELTAP TAPES ON OSWALD WERE DERIVED WOULD HAVE DETRIMENTAL EFFECT ON CURRENT LIAISON RELATIONSHIP. THE MEXICAN LIAISON SERVICES AND SENIOR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS CONTINUE TO BE SENSITIVE RE THE NWBOLTON RELATIONSHIP, AND THERE ARE THOSE WITHIN THESE RANKS WHO QUESTION WHETHER OR NOT THE MEXICANS SHOULD HAVE ANYTHING MORE THAN A FORMAL RELATIONSHIP WITH NWBOLTON. STATION BELIEVES THAT ANY EXPOSURE (WHETHER OLD OR NEW) AT THIS STAGE OF THE LIAISON RELATIONSHIP (A NEW REGIME IS COMING TO POWER) WOULD FORCE THE MEXICANS TO REASSESS THEIR RELATIONSHIP WITH US AS WELL AS QUESTION OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN A DISCREET AND PROTECTED RELATIONSHIP. (IT WOULD ALSO GIVE OUR DETRACTORS THE EXCUSE TO FURTHER REDUCE OR COMPLETELY BREAK OFF THE RELATIONSHIP.) GIVEN THE HIGH INTEREST OF POLICYMAKERS IN NARCOTRAFFICKING, TERRORISM, AND COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN MEXICO, THE PRESERVATION OF STATION LIAISON EQUITIES IS PARAMOUNT AT THIS TIME. STATION ENCOURAGES HQS TO CONTINUE TO DO WHATEVER IS POSSIBLE TO KEEP THE LID ON THE BOX RE PREVIOUS JOINT OPS WITH THE MEXICANS.

3. RE THE INVOLVED IN THE TRANSCRIPTION OF THE TAPES.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 94-8695408                                    PAGE: 2
SENSIND: RYBAT

STATION PLANS TO DISCREETLY CHECK CONSULAR FILES TO DETERMINE IF
HE IS STILL RESIDING IN MEXICO IF NOCIS IN MEXICO WILL QUERY
HIM RE HIS REACTION TO FULLER DISCLOSURE OF HIS ROLE WITH THE
TAPES INITIAL STATION REACTION RE DISCLOSURE OF NOC'S
INVOLVEMENT WITH OSWALD (TAPES AND IMPACT ON (STATION OPERATIONS
AND EQUITIES IS NEGATIVE SINCE BLOWBACK POTENTIAL COULD BE
TWOFOLD: IT COULD DRAWOLIAISON ATTENTION TO POSSIBLE STATION
USE OF (NOCS IN MEXICO, AND LIAISON WOULD PROBABLY SCREEN MUCH
CLOSER U.S. BUSINESSMEN TRAVELLING AND OPERATING IN MEXICO

4. FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.
   END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)