# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material containe information affecting the National Defense of the l'nited States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. UBC. Beca 793 and 794, the traneolemton of revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorised perara is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

SUBJECT Policy Guidance Directives for Cuban Intelligence Representatives in the Dominican Republic

REPORT NO. CS-3-11/00466-65

DATE DISTR. 11 January 1965

NO. PAGES 8

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64 CS-311/00345-64

DATE OF INFO. 1963

PLACE & DATE ACQ. June 1961

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a document which Source provided containing the policy guidance directive for Cuban intelligence representatives in the Dominican Republic, prepared by the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencia--DGI), MA Department. The MA Department no longer exists as such, having been divided into two departments: Illegal Department (Ilegal) and National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional -- LN). It may be noted that this directive was prepared during the régime of Juan Bosch Gaviño.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: SANTO DOMINGO (sic)

Priority

1. Collective action.

2. Status of leftist forces.

3. Dominican Republic Armed Forces.

4. Dominican Communist Party (Partido Socialista Popular Dominicano).

5. Training camps and operations bases.

6. Counterrevolutionary organizations.

7. Repressive corps and CIA Santo Domingo.

8. Status of political parties or groups.

9. Solidarity with Cuba movement.

10. Relations with United States.

11. Church.

12. Armed forces internal situation.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


| STATE       | DIA  | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | אאו | OCR | FBI |
| ----------- | ---- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| REPCINCLANT | I&NS |      |      |     |     |     |     |     |

(Nore. Field distribution Indicated by "#")


# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORTA

|     |     |     | For Distribution See Attached Page | LX-2158         |
| --- | --- | --- | ---------------------------------- | --------------- |
|     |     |     |                                    | NP (AMMUG-1)    |
|     |     |     |                                    | CS-311/00466-65 |

CI/LS 12 (for AF/OSI, ACSI, ONE, SY, FBI, DIA - 2 each COORDINATING REAVE SING

TOTALS IE 3,CI 21, RID/AN 1,WH SA 16.(5), SR 4,FI LIAISON *
WH 23(33), AF 8(8), EE 8(10), FE 12(S), NE 7(19) RWT : eb


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 1a -

CS-311 00466-65

Hdqrs Dissem

WH/COPS 1
WH/PO/A 1
WH/PO/B 1
WH/1 1
WH/2 13
WH/3 1
WH/3/V 1
WH/4 1
WH/5 1
WH/6 1
WH/R 1

WH/SA/EOB 5
WH/SA/MOB 5
WH/SA/R 4
WH/SA/Int 30
WH/SA/CI
WH/SA/SO/NS. 1

CI/Staff 5
CI/Liaison 1
CI/R&A 3
RID/AN 1

AF/1 1
AF/2 1
AF/3 1
AF/4 1
AF/R 3
AF/CI 1

EE/K 1
EE/SA 1
EE/BR 1
EE/YA 1
EE/H 1
EE/P 1
EE/C 1
EE/IIS 1

FE/PMI/I 1
FE/JKO/JO 1
FE/JKO/K 1
FE/VNC/VN 4
FE/R 4
FE/CI 4

NE/AA/L&S 1
NE/AA/AP 1
NE/AA/E 1
NE/AA/I 1
NE/5/P 1
NE/6/C&I 1
NE/Intel 1

SR/CI 1
SR/CI/K 1
SR/RR 1
SR/O/WH 1

WE/1 1
WE/2 1
WE/3 1
WE/4 1
WE/5 1
WE/BC 1
WE/R 1

Field Dissem

WH/MEXI 1
WH/MNTY 1
WH/MRID 1
WH/SDOM 1
WH/PIBO 1
WH 'POSN 1
WH/KNGS 1
WH/PRIN 1
WH/GORG 1
WH/MANA 1
WH/SJOS 1
WH/SALV 1
WH/TEGU 1
WH/GUAT 1
WH/LAPA 1
WH/BOGO 1
WH/QUIT 1
WH/GAYA 1
WH/LIMA 1
WH/CARA 1
WH/BUEN 1
WH 'COBA 1
WH/MONT 1
WH/ASUN 1
WH/SAGO 1
WH/RIOD 1
WH/CURI 1
WH/BRIL 1
WH/SAOP 1
WH/BHIA 1
WH/BEHO 1
WH/'LGRE 1
WH/RECI 1

WH/SA/WAVE 5

AF/ALGI 1
AF/ORNA 1
AF/RABA 1
AF/CASB 1
AF/ACCR 1
AF/ENRY 1
AF/BAKO 1
AF/DARE 1

EE/VIEN 1
EE/SBUR 1
EE/CYRU 1
EE/ATHE 1
EE'SLON. 1
EE/BERN 1

EE/GNVA 1
EE/ZURI 1
EE/HANB 1
EE/KAVA 1

FE/DJAK 1
FE/MEDS 1
FE/SURA 1
FE/TOKY 1
FE/OKIE 1
FE/SEOU 1
FE/SAIG 1
FE/KOBE 1

NE/COLO 1
NE/NEED 1
NE/BONB 1
NE/CALC 1
NE/MDRS 1
NE/KUWA 1
NE/KAHI 1
NE/DACC 1
NE/LAHO 1
NE/RAUL 1
NE/BAGH 1
NE/BEIR 1
NE/DANA 1
NE/ALEP 1
NE/JIDD 1
NE/DAHA 1
NE/TAIZ 1
NE/CAIR 1
NE/ALEX 1

WE/BRUS 1
WE/COPE 1
WE/HELS 1
WE/OTTA 1
WE/ROME 1
WE/MILA 1
WE/HAGU 1
WE/OSLO 1
WE/LISB 1
WE/MADR 1
WE/BARC 1
WE/STOC 1
WE/LOND 1
WE, PARI 1

Liaison Dissem

IE Canada
(RCMP) 1
IE British 1
I./WASH BR 1

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 -

CS-311/00466-65

Important

13. Functions, characteristics, and personal data on members of the foreign service, and of the accredited diplomatic corps.

14. The press.

Necessary

15. Status of the national economy.

16. Structure of the government and functions of its organs.

INFORMATION GUIDELINES AND OBJECTIVES:
COUNTRY: SANTO DOMINGO

Priority.

1. Collective Action.

a) Political and military agreements adopted by regional organs against Cuba in which the Bosch government participates. Meetings in which the government's participation in the adoption thereof may be agreed on. Dominican government proposals on the Cuban case, and collective aggression.

b) Participation of the government in troops in the aggression, units which would participate in the aggression, their chiefs and strength.

c) Joint military maneuvers which may be held in Dominican territory by Latin American armies. Participating armies and units thereof.

d) Military concentrations of Latin and Yankee armies, objectives thereof; presence therein of Cuban mercenaries, their conditions, U.S. Sol. (sic; soldiers?) such as mercenaries of the Plaza Giron type, etc.

e) Plans of provocations devised by the Dominican government in order to show Cuban Government intervention in the country's internal affairs.

f) Measures on travel to or from Cuba.

g) Possibilities for break in relations by countries that may have relations with Cuba.

2. Status of Leftist Forces

a) Progressive forces: organization, leaders, strength, position, and argumentation in the revolutionary struggle.

b) Possibility for armed struggle.

c) Contradictions and degree of unity among the leftist forces.

d) Publications--circulation.

e) Repression against leftist forces.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN

- 3 -

CS-311/00466-65

f) Contact with leftist forces in order to know their viewpoints regularly, at all times, and when we may need it, especially on political and economic changes which may take place in Cuba.

g) Student, peasant, and labor movements. Organization, strength, leaders, relations with the leftist forces, degree of unity.

h) U.S. and Church penetration in the mass organizations (labor, peasant, student).

i) Possibilities of spontaneous manifestations of struggle.

j) Possibilities of guerrilla movement: groups, organizations, leaders, weapons, popular support, relations with the left- ist forces.

k) Struggle in the city: groups, leaders, form of work, role of the labor and student movement, relations with the left- ist forces, and with groups operating in the countryside.

l) Relations of exiles with the insurrectional movement.

3. Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic

a) Organization of the Dominican Armed Forces, units, and strength of the various corps. Bases, barracks, weapons, and transport of the Armed Forces. Locations.

b) Budgetary allocations of the Armed Forces; allocations to each branch (Navy, Air Force, and Army).

c) Existing bilateral agreements with the United States of a secret nature.

d) Secret or public military pacts entered into by Santo Domingo with countries in the Caribbean area, agreements by them con- cerning special arrangements.

e) Yankee military missions. Names, ranks, and functions of their members, their duties.

f) Armed Forces units with anti-guerrilla training, their strength, time spent in anti-guerrilla training, instructors giving it, weapons, and transportation in the possession of the units. Leaders of the units.

g) Other battalions or special units (parachutists, Rangers), units and strength, their leaders, transport, and weapons.

h) Changes in armament; quantity and characteristics of the new weapons acquired.

i) Participation by Dominican units in Central American or Caribbean military maneuvers, units participating, strength, their leaders.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 4 -

CS-311/00466-65

4. The Dominican Communist Party (Dominican Popular Socialist Party, PSPD)

a) Attitude toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) Attitude toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Attitude toward Cuba's political activities of a national or international nature.

d) Position in regard to the disagreements in the international Communist movemont.

e) In the case of China and the USSR.

f) In the case of Albania and the USSR.

g) As regards Yugoslavia, China, the USSR, and Albania.

h) As regards Peace.

i) Regarding peaceful coexistence.

j) Internal status of the Party.

k) Forces.

l) Leaders (information concerning them).

m) Disagreements.

n) Relations with other lettist forces, disagreements, possibilities for unification.

ñ) Methods of fighting officially adopted by the Party.

o) Attitude of the Party toward the elections.

p) Relations with the bourgeois parties and the government.

q) Fork for solidarity with Cuba.

r) Publicity media.

s) The establishment of permanent and temporary contact with the PSPD.

t) Relations of the PSPD with other Latin-American Marxist parties.

5. Training Camps and Operational Bases

a) Location of training camps for Cuban mercenaries, number of mercenaries in them. Type and duration of training, organizations participating in it. Plans and missions of the elements being trained. Leaders of the camps. Place where the Cuban mercenaries go, recruitment locations. Participation by national elements in the training of mercenaries of foreign nationality.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 5 -

CS-311/00466-65

b) Presence of counterrevolutionary elements in the Dominican armed forces; names, assignments, and functions.

c) Location of counterrevolutionary operational bases on Dominican soil; type of bases. Water craft or aircraft present on them. Counterrevolutionary organization which appears at the head of them. Elements participating. Type of water craft and their characteristics. Their weapons, objectives, and plans of attack; dates when they are to be carried out.

## 6. Counterrevolutionary Organizations

a) Cuban counterrevolutionary organizations which are function- ing in Santo Domingo; their leaders. Their contact with government personnel, especially with people in the new régime who are responsible for establishing such contact.

b) Contact by the Bosch government with the magazine *Bohemia* in Exile of Miguel Angel Quevedo; financial support given it by him, and through whom.

c) Contact with Carlos Prío and elements linked with the PRC; assistance to them. Contact with the counterrevolutionary organizations; contact with the political parties; clements through which it is effected.

d) Methods of communication by the elements in Santo Domingo with the counterrevolutionary centers in Miami; through whom the communications are established, and what means are used for this purpose.

e) Obtaining documents which prove that the Dominican govern- ment gives economic assistance to the counterrevolutionary elements.

f) Counterrevolutionaries who are now working in the Dominican state apparatus or in Yankee aid institutions; disagreements between them and the Dominican workers.

g) Connections between the counterrevolutionary organizations and the Trujillo régime. Documents proving these connections.

## 7. Repressive Bodies and CIA, Santo Domingo

a) Repressive bodies which function in Santo Domingo. Their functions. Activities carried on by them. Their leaders and principal officers. Working methods. Plans and ob- jectives.

b) Intelligence organizations functioning in Santo Domingo. Leaders. Elements abroad. Their duties and functions. Activities carried on. Plans and objectives of Dominican Intelligence, principally against Cuba. Trujillist cle- ments still functioning inside this body; duties and functions.

c) Cooperation between the Dominican repressive bodies and those of the Latin American countries, especially those of Central America.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 6 -

CS-311/00466-65

d) Meetings held with them, dates, and personnel participating in the meetings; locations. Prints discussed, agreements arrived at against Cuba, and the Movement of National Liberation. Plans and objectives of the national security forces with regard to the Movement of National Liberation, means and resources mobilized, agents infiltrated into the political movements, repressive methods prescribed.

e) Contacts with Interpol. Cooperation with it. Restrictive measures regarding trips to Cuba. Agents.

f) Foreign advisers of the repressive forces and intelligence bodies; names, ranks, and positions; their functions; cases in which they have participated.

g) Leading functionaries of the CIA in the country: its office. Plans and objectives it pursues in Santo Domingo.

h) Nationals who are working for the CIA; names, ranks, and positions. Their methods and plans. Purpose of their work.

8. Status of the Parties or Political Groups

a) Their present status in regard to composition, strength, penetration, factions, leaders, programs, etc.

b) Participation in the government.

c) Relations of the political parties with the Embassy, the monopolies, the Church, and the Armed Forces,

d) Organizations of a fascist type: relations with the government, the Yankee Embassy, the Church; leaders, members, structure, anti-Communist campaign, arguments, attacks upon Cuba.

e) Provenience of the funds of the political parties.

f) Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revolution.

g) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

h) In regard to Cuban-Soviet relations, in questions which affect Cuba and world peace.

i) Concerning rightist and extreme rightist groups.

j) Reactions to the economic and political changes taking place in Cuba.

9. Movement for Solidarity with Cuba

a) Possibility of active demonstrations in favor of Cuba: groups, leaders, strength, organization, participants, relations with the forces of the left and other progressive forces.

b) Repression directed at the movement for solidarity with Cuba.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 7 -

CS-311/00466-65

10. Relations with the United States

a) Alliance for Progress,

b) The American Embassy. Information on the activities of the Ambassador and the personnel of the Embassy. Relations with the reactionary organizations. Relations with the Church. Government functionaries in close contact with the Embassy.

c) Propaganda campaigns for and against. Periodicals; themes.

11. The Church

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy. Information concerning it.

b) Attitude and disagreements between the national clergy and foreign countries.

c) Participation by the Church in the internal politics of the country.

d) Secular organizations of the Church (such as young people, Catholic labor, Catholic knights).

e) Penetration of the Church into the educational system of the country on various levels.

12. Internal Status of the Armed Forces

a) Information on the military chiefs and the activities they carry on. Groups they observe. Trends and disagreements.

Important

13. Functioning; Characteristics and Information on Members of the Foreign Service of the Diplomatic Corps Accredited to the Country

a) United Nations, Organization of American States, the JID /Inter-American Defense Board7.

b) Latin American functionaries in this country. To work with the diplomatic circles accredited to the country.

14. The Press

a) Information on journalists and dissemination organs. Possibility of making use of them. Journalists in the country and abroad.

Required

15. Status of the National Economy

a) United States investments (new and old).

b) Participation by the national oligarchy in the economy. Industry, commerce, agriculture.

c) Utilization and location of Trujillo's property.

d) Trend of the level of unemployment.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 8 -

CS-311/00466-65

c) Relations of the country in regard to Central American economic integration.

f) Possibility of a new economic policy of the United States monopolies in the country.

g) Need for obtaining collaborators who will inform us periodically on economic questions.

16. Structure of the Government and Functioning of its Apparatus

a) Character of the government, program, international policy.

b) Relations between the Presidency and the ministries.

c) Functioning of the Congress. Most prominent figures. Relations with the Yankee Embassy. Representation of the bourgeois parties and the social classes.

d) The judiciary: personages occupying high positions; important laws. Repressive laws. Relations of the judiciary with the other authorities.

e) Information on personalities connected with Juan Bosch.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)