# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

-6th-August,1961

SOURCE: (Israeli Liaison

SECRET

REPORT No. 6-1053

Subject: International Institute for Peace.

In a circular letter dated VIENNA, 15th February, 1961, addressed to MAKI leaders in ISRAEL, the following Latin American public figures were listed as signatories of the appeal to convene the Latin-American Conference for National Sovereignty Economic Emancipation and Peace in MEXICO in March 1961:

ARGENTINA:

Prof. ALFREDO L. PALACIOS, MP, former Federal Senator, former Rector of La Plata National University, former diplomat, member of the Executive of the Argentine Socialist Party.

Dr. ALEJANDRO GOMEZ, former Vice-President of ARGENTINA.

Dr. SANTIAGO H. DEL CASTILLO, former Governor of CORDOBA, Former Vice-Presidential candidate fromthe People's Radical Civic Union.

Prof. CARLOS SANCHEZ VIAMONTE, professor for international law, former MP.

Dr. JULIO E. ACOSTA, MP.

Miss NELIDA BAIGORRIA, MP.

Dr. CARLOS ALBERTO BECERRA, MP.

Dr. JUAN CARLOS ESPINA MP.

Mr. HORACIO LUELMO, MP.

Mr. ATILIO MARCHINI, MP.

Dr. AUGUSTIN RODRIGUEZ ARAYA, MP., President of the Civic Union Party.

Dr. EDUARDO ROSENKRANTZ, MP.

Dr. RAMON A. MUNIZ, General Secretary of the Argentine Socialist Party.

Mr. RODOLFO GHIOLDI, member of the Executive Committee of the Communist Party.

Prof. BERNARDO CANAL FEIJOO, writer, former Dean, of the La Plata Faculty of Letters.

Mr. EZEQUIEL MARTINEZ ESTRADA, writer.

Dr. MOISES POLACK, Honorary Professor at the La Plata National University, member of the Executive Committee of the Buenos Aires Medical Faculty.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 6th August, 1961

SECRET

Mr. GUILLERMO ESTEVEZ BOERO, President of the Argentine University Federation.

Mr. AUGUSTIN CUEVAS, MP.

Mr. C. DE SIMONE, Secretary of the Central Committee of Socialist youth.

Mr. MIGUEL ANGEL ASTURIAS, writer.

Dr. EDUARDO ALEMAN, lawyer, President of the Argentine Peace Council.

Mr. BERNARDO KLEINER, member of the High Council of the Buenos Aires National University.

BRAZIL.

MPs:

SERGIO MAGALHAES, President of the Chamber Deputies. BARBOSA LIMA SOBRINHO, GABRIEL PASSOS, JOSUE DE CASTRO, SALVADOR LOSACCO, LICIO HAVER, JOSE JOFFILY, ARTUR VIRBILIO, BOCAIUVA CONHA, FERNANDO SANT ANA, VASCOCELOS TORRES, ELOI DUTRA, JACOB FRANTZ, CLIDENOR FREITAS, ALMINO ALFONSO, CELSO BRANT, FRANCISCO JULIAO, SINVAL GUAZZELI and CANDIDO NORBERTO.

SENATORS: FREITAS CAVALCANTE, HERNAI MAIU (Minas Serais), PAULO VIANA (Pernambuca).

JORGE AMADO, writer.

OLIVEIRAS GUANAIS, President of the National Union of Students.

TAXSAN DE CASTRO, Vice-President of the Brazilian Union of Secondary School Students.

AMILTON GOMES, President of the Paraiba Union of Students.

BENEDITO CORQUEIRA, President of the Metalwokers' Union(Ric

CANEDO LOPES, President of the National Air Transport Unior

BAYARD BOITEUX, President of the National Teachers' Union.

CHILE

SALVADOR ALLENDE, former candidate for the President of the Republic and Socialsit arty Senator

HERMES AHUMADA, Radical Party MP.

ALFREDO DE AMESTI, retired colonel, former President of the Peace Movement.

Prof. ALBERTO BALTHA, former Minister for the Interior, lawyer and Professor at the University of Chile.

ELENA CAFFARENA, lawyer, member of the Council for the Defence of Children.

ARMANDO CARVAJAL, Director and founder of the Symphony Orchestra.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

6th August, 1961 - 3 - SECRET

CRISTIAN CADEMAARTORI, businessman.
GUILLERMO DEL PEDREGAL, former Minister of the Interior.
JOSE FONDEA, National Democratic Party MP.
EDUARDO HAMUY, Director of the Institute for Sociology of the Chilean University.
GUILLERMO IZQUIERDO ARAYA, National Democratic Party Senator.
ANIBAL JARA, journalist, former Ambassador to the United States
PABLO NERUDA, poet.
SERGIO RECABARREN, lawyer, former Minister of the Interior

COLOMBIA

Dr. JORGE PERIGU CARDENAS
JUAN DE LA CRUZ VARELA, MP.
ALFONSO BARBERENA, MP.
JORGE ZALAMEA, writer.
GILBERTO VIEIRA, Secretary of the Colombian Communist Part
HERNANDO CARAVITO NUNOZ, lawyer, Member of the Cundinamarc Assembly.
ANIANO INGLESIAS, Director of the Barranquilla Extra
NAZARETH CRUZ, leader of a women's organisation.
VENTURA PUENTE VANEGAS, from the Colombian trade union movement.
TANCREDO HERRAN, leader of the Bogota industrial zone.
HENRY PATINO, member of Tolima Assembly.
EDUARDO ELINAS M., leader of a student organisation.
MARIO ALCALA, of the Liberal Revolutionary Movement.
YIRA CASTRO DE CEPEDA, leader of a student organisation.
ALICIA GUERRERO, Union of Democratic Women.
JOSE MARIA VARVAS, Committee for Oil Nationalisation
RICARDO SAMPER, journalist.
ARMANDO SUESCUN, Secretary of the Colombian Socialist Party.

CUBA

Cap. EMILIO ARAGONES, national coordinator of the 26 July Movement.
Dr. MARTHA FRAYDE, Movement for Peace and Sovereignty of the Peoples.
Dr. CLEMENTE INCLAN, Rector of Havana University.
Dr. ENRIQUE GIMENEZ, President of the Board of Governors of Havana University.
Mr. ENRIQUE GONZALEZ MANTICI, Director of the National Symphony Orchestra.

۱۰/۰


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

6th August, 1961.

SECRET

Dr. VICENTINA ANTUNA, General Director of Culture.
Dr. JOSE SANTIAGO CUBAS, Procurator of the Supreme Court of Justice.
DR. JUAN MARINELLO, President of the Popular Socialist Party.
Dr. EDUARDO CORONA, lawyer, diplomat.
Dr. ISABEL MONAL, Director of the Cuban National Theatre.
Commander OSCAR FERNANDEZ MEL, President of the National Doctor's Association.
Mr. BALDOMERO ALVAREZ RIOS, Dean of the National Journalists' School.
Commander Dr. HUMBERTO CASTELLO, General Secretary of the "Directorio Revolucionario 13 de marzo".
Mr. NICOLAS GUILLEN, poet.
Commander ROLANDO BUBELA, President of the Students' Federation.
Mr. GIRALDO MAZOLA, director of the Cuban Institute for Friendship between the Peoples.
Commander GULLERMO JIMENEZ, director of the newspaper "Combate”。
Dr. CARLOS RAFAEL RODRIGUEZ, University Professor, director of the journal "Hoy"
Mr. MARIO KUCHILAN, director of the journal "Prensa Libre".
Mr. CARLOS FANQUI, director of the journal "Revolucion"
Mr. ALFREDO CUEVARA, director of the Cuban Institute of Art and the Film Industry.
Dr. ELIAS ENTRALGO, President of the Cuban UNESCO Commissi
Mr. ENRIQUE DE LA OSA, director of the journal "Bohemia".
Mr. ERNESTO VERA, director of the journal "La Calle”。
Mrs. VILMA ESPIN, Federation of Cuban Women.
Dr. OFELIA DOMINGUEZ, Cuban United Nations Association.

HONDURAS

JULIO C. RIVERA, workerst leader.
OSCAR F. ALFARENGO, Member of the University Reform Front.
MIGUEL YANES RIOS, student leader.
SANTIAGO FERNANDEZ TOFFE, theatre director.
JUDITH SALGADO, Committee for Solidarity with Cuba.
ALFREDO HOFFMAN, leader of the Radio Workers Union.
LETICIA RAUDALES, member of the Liberal Youth Association.
HECTOR I. GUTTIERREZ, general secretary of the Organisation Committee of the Honduran Democratic Youth.
LISANDRO GALVEZ, former rector of the National Autonomous University..
ANIBAL DELGADO FIALLO, General Secretary of the University Reform Front.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# MEXICO

-6th August, 1961 - 5 - SECRET

IGNACIO ACOSTA, University graduate.
FRANCISCO ARGUELLO, Member of the Federal Parliament.
ALONSO AGUILAR, Professor of the National School of Economics.
ANABELA AGUIRRE, anthropologist.
BERTHA ARENAL, Professor at the National School of Odontology.
SOL ARGUEDAS, journalist.
RAMON BARBOSA C., Member of the Federal Parliament.
ALBERTO BREMAUNTZ, Magistrate at the District Federal High Court of Justice.
ANGEL BALTAZAR BARAJAS, President of the Michoacan University Professors' Federation.
RAFAEL BANALES, General Secretary of the Kleinenmar Rolling Mill Workers' Union.
RAMIRO BERMUDES ALEGRIA, member of theboard of Governors of Lower California University.
CLEMENTINA BATALLA DE BASSOLS, University graduate.
NARCISO BASSOLS BATALLA, Chemical engineer.
ALFONSO BARRAZA, SANTOS BARCENAS engineer.
ROGELIO BLANCO DESDER, FERNANDO BENITEZ, writer and journalist.
CELERINO CANO, teacher, FERNANDO CARMONA, University graduate, EMILIO CARBALLIDO, dramtist,
CUAUHTEMOC CARDENAS, engineer, AURELIANO GABALLERO C and LEANDRO CASTILLO V., members of the Federal Parliament

# PERU

OSCAR AGUIRRE, MP.,
ABUNDIO ARAUZO, MP,
FELIX ARIAS SHEREIBER, university leader.
JACINTE CACERES PILARES, MP.,
SXITE COELLO JARA, Senator, specialist for penl law.
LUIS CERENADO VIGIL, MP.
CARLOS MALPICA, MP.,
FERNANDO MANRIQUE, MP, President of the Jose Carlos Mariategui Institute.
ERNESTO MORE, writer, MP., President of the Peruvian Peace Movement.
EFRAIN RUIZ CARO, MP., journalist.
TAMAYO PEZUA, MP.,
WILBERT SALAS, MP.

./.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

14-00000

6th August, 1961

SECRET

PUERTO RICO

L. O'NILL, President of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party.

J. SANTOS RIVERA, President of the Puerto Rican Communist Party F.U.P.I. (the University Federation for Independence

R. MEDINA RAMIREZ, United Patriotic Association.

EVARISTO RIBERA CHEVREMONT, poet.

OSVALDO AGUERO, director of the "Godazos" radio programme and coordinator of the Cuban 26 July Movement in PUERTO RICO.

JULIO DE SANTIAGO, former President, Puerto Rican Nationalist Party.

LORENZO PINEIRO RIVERA, lawyer, President of the Society of Friends of Cuba in Puerto Rico.

GABRIEL VINCENTRE MAURA, Secretary for foreign relations of the Puerto Rican Independence Movement.

WILLIAM CORDOVA CHIRINO, director of the radio programme "Native Industries" and of the "El Informador" radio journal.

NORMAN PIETRI, former President, University Independence Federation.

SALVADOR

ROBERTO CARIAS DELGADO, General Secretary of the April and May Revolutionary Party.

MARIO SALAZAR VALIENTE, Secretary of the Relations Committee of the April and May Revolutionary Party.

GENERAL ASSOCIATION of University Students of Salvador.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)