# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

6 MAY 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: Media Inquiry to Cuban Exile Journalist in Miami re Cuban Involvement in Watergate Case and Attitudes in Miami Area

1. This memorandum is for your information only.

2. On 7 May 1973 we were advised by Station WH/Miami that two employees of a Station WH/Miani proprietary had told the Station that one Rene VIERA Gonzalez, a Cuban exile journalist who writes for Diario Las Americas and owns the Westchester Mali Bookstore in Miami received a call in early May from one FNU GOTTLIEB who said he worked for the Times in Washington. (GOTTLIEB is believed to be Sanford GOTTLIEB, 11102 Brandywine St., Kensington, Md. who was formerly an employee of the National Committee on Sane Nuclear Policy". A pretext call to the Washington bureau of the New York Times verified that one "Sandy" Gottlieb was employed there.) GOTTLIEB asked VIERA what people in Miami were saying about the Watergate case and what participation the Cubans had in it. He specifically asked about the activities of Reinaldo PICO (former 2506 Brigade member), Orlando PIEDRA (former Chief of Cuban Bureau of Investigation in Batista Government), and Rolando MASFERRER (former Cuban Senator and self-admitted former Communist). He also asked if ITT had an office in Miami, whether Joaquin SANJENIS Perdome (former Chief of a WH/Miami proprietary who was amicably terminated in 1972) and Juan A. PAULA (former WH/Miami proprietary employee and former Controller of Revolutionary Democratic Front-FRD-and currently employed by an OGC proprietary) were still in the Miami area, He was also interested in Edgardo BUTTARI, a Cuban born in West Tampa, Florida, a former Cuban Congressman and Minister of Commerce who is reportedly associated with Mr. Charles "Bebe" REBOZO. According to GOTTLIEB, BUTTARI was appointed as "political chief in the Republican Party".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

3. GOTTLIEB apparently has current information on the activities of the persons he mentioned; for example, he knew that Juan A. PAULA was involved in the jewelry business (PAULA and Antonio Felix GENOVA Corzo, a WH/Miami proprietary employee recently purchased a jewelry business) and he knew that Reinaldo PICO had resided in Venezuela and had recently returned to the United States. The phone conversation on lasted about 45 minutes and GOTTLIEB told VIERA that if he came to Miami they would have lunch together.

4. VIERA does not know GOTTLIEB but talked to him because GOTTLIEB said he was recommended by Ernesto BETANCOURT who has resided in the Washington area for more than ten years. BETANCOURT was a former Agency asset and is currently Chief of Economic Planning and Budget, OAS. The conversation was initially in English but continued in Spanish. VIERA said he provided no information to GOTTLIEB on the basis that he is a Cuban exile and did not want to get involved in internal U.S. affairs. We do not know why GOTTLIEB was interested in Joaquin SANJENIS or Juan A. PAULA. (Attached are summary biographies of persons of interest to GOTTLIEB.)

5. On 7 May 1973 Marvin L. EVANS, Chief, MIMUTUAD, was briefed on the substance of the report from WH/Miami pertaining to Juan A. PAULA, who works for the MHMUTUAL proprietary, UCKERCHER and AVANT which utilizes (NORTHWEST MANAGEMENT SERVICES, INC as office space cover. Among other duties performed by the proprietary are the monthly checks sent to the dependents of imprisoned assets which are signed in true name by PAULA. EVANS was unaware that PAULA had purchased a new jewelry business in association with Antonio GENOVA; however, he feels that MHMUTUAD is protected and compartmented from the WH/Miami proprietary and he has the utmost confidence in the proprietary being able to field any questions. CHMUTUAD communication with the proprietary is by unlisted phone and a post office box. EVANS said that NCKERCHER and AVANT could possibly be linked το NORTHWEST MANAGEMENT but the trail would end there. He feels that either proprietary could only be linked to the Agency by innuendo. (He did say that Howard HUNT was aware of MHMUTUAD when he served as C/CA/EUR.) EVANS feels secure as far as (NORTHWEST MANAGEMENT and (MCKERCHER and AVANT are concerned.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

6. EVANS mentioned that the bona fide law firm occupying the other portion of the MHMUTUAL offices are the attorneys for John DEAN. (These lawyers are cleared and witting.) One of the lawyers told EVANS that DEAN will be the "biggest canary singer of the year". The common receptionist area is manned by MHMUTUAL employees who also monitor all telephone calls, incoming and outgoing for the other law firm. EVANS mentioned that there have been numerous calls from the media and outgoing overseas calls to such places as Japan and Europe.

7. EVANS will be traveling to Nassau and returning via Miami on 10 May 1973. He intends to talk with his proprietary people at that time on other AHMUTUAL business and will also contact COS, WH/Miami. (The COS has been alerted to expect a call from EVANS on 10 May 1973.)

James E. Flannery
James E. Flannery
Acting Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

cc: Director of Security

Attachments: A-F Biographic Summaries


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)