# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## SECRET

### DIAZ

22 September 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Conversations with REICHHARDT, 8, 9, 16, 17 September 1959

1. On 8 September Reichhardt phoned to report the following:

a. He took Marcos DIAZ Lans to the office of INS on Monday, 7 September to take care of his immigration status. (Comments: I was later called by Bill COTTER of the Alien Branch, CS concerning this. COTTER said that when they reported this to INS - that service said that LEFENS, the IXS man in Miami has told them that DIAZ' hearing had already been held shortly after his arrival. COTTER implied that Bernie was not reporting accurately on the situation in Misi. I have not repeated this to Bernie, because Alien brach seems to be in something of a tissy in regard to the new people in IKS with whom they are dealing as a result of recent transfers of personnsl.)

b. Bernie asked me to clarify what I wanted in the way of an affidavit of support for the wife of Marcos DIAZ. I dictated a simple strierent and told Fernie to have it notarized and accompanied by a bank statement or similar document indicating WILLIAMS' ability to support .d it become way.

c. Bernie reported that Mrs. Catherine TWAS, the international busybody claims that she is going to Cuba on our instigation. She is accompanied by her entire family. This information came from the Miami Chief of Detectives to the 00 Representative.

d. Bernie asked how he could identify himself to the three evacuees in Miani we have instructed his to contact re going to the Dordnican Republic on our behalf. I told hin to use Dave Morales' name.

e. He asked me for inforsation on our dispatch to Cara in connection with the PCs for AC00 and the gift. I told him I'd check and let him know. (Comments The same day I saw a dispatch from davant ansvering the questions, an info copy of which went to Bernie.)

## SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

[SECRET]

2. 
2. I phoned Reichhardt on 9 September and we discussed the following matters:

a. I told him about the visit of Angel BOS. He said he had talked with [bERS] on this matter and that [E]S reported that BOS came to Miami on 1 September and left on 3 September. [PERS] thinks BOS is a secret police agent. Bernie is to see [ERS] for details on this. (Comment: Reichhardt's report was received on 11 September.)

b. Reichhardt asked me to check on his money situation since no deposit has been made.

c. Reichhardt asked if I had seen copies of the news letter being distributed by Emilio MEZ Portuondo called Latin American Events. N MEZ is listed as editor and publisher and the firm is Latin American Affairs Inc., 1028 Connecticut Avenue, Washington. The first issue was published on 7 August. The 17 August issue includes a list of Communists. (Comment: I am arranging for the CIA library to procure loan copies of the publication for me to review.)

d. WMEZ was in Miami last week. ORTEGA did not see him, but according to ORTEGA's sources, [WE] strongly implied that he has succeeded in obtaining US support in the Departments of State and Defense including commitments for training sites in the United States. WMEZ also said that he is in touch with Col. King. This was covered in UK4-15.

3. On 15 September I talked with Reichhardt concerning the following:

a. Ricardo LORIE saw ROS. Bernie will see LORIE about this.

b. Bernie will see FOX this week.

c. The addresses for the two evacuees who came by way of El Salvador are not correct. I told Bernie to try to find out where they are from the third, with whom he is in contact.

d. Bernie asks that his local travel order be renewed. (Comment: I checked this and the order has been renewed through 31 December 1959.)

4. On 16 September the following matters were discussed with Reichhardt:

[SECRET]

.41BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

a. SAIZINIS: Re called in the morning to ask for infor- nation on this man. According to Reichhardt, LORIE says that he was fire from the DIER for anti-Com- manist activities and was expected to arrive in Miami last night. LORIE is worried about his because of his previous post as No. 2 man in the DIA. The Cuban card confiras that he held the latter post..

b. De LORIE says that he knows HOS well, and likes him. They net in Miami last week. RCS is in Miami again. ROS is principally interested in getting Reynaldo BLANCO out of Cube. RCS says he was told the American Fabassy can have no part of this but suggested he (ECS) ask De LORIE to see his Aizat contact about assistance. Bernie discouraged LORIE abcut helping BLANCO. Bernie feels it is range that Station Havana would tell ROS about LORIE's Miami contact and that the former sight have nis-represented what was said. (Consent: be can- not positively identify BisCO although such an indi- vidual wes listed by LORIE and the DIAZ Lanz as an Army officer. He may have been ane of the 1957 regular army plotters.).

c. LORIE also asked help in converting Pesos to dollars. Bernie did not give him an answer on this.

d. LORIS said he wants to establish contact with ROS. The plan we heve so far only envisages communication Area RCS in Havana to LORIE. While bernie would pre- far to handle the matter personally, I think I con- vinced hin that this is unfeasible because of the danger of provocation. He therefore suggested having Cheesman brought into the picture, mocysously, as an Individual who would get in touch with LORIE when there is something for him from 80S and who will call LORIE periodically to find out if. LORIE wants to transmit anything to ROS. This sounis OK to me. Bernie will see CHESMAN within the next few days on this.

e. LORIE told Berufe that Cuban opposition views BONSAL'S trip to the US as a victory for the opposition bat that if BONSAL returned to Cuba they will view the return as a triamph for CASTRO.

f. According to an 00 source Mrs. Katherina TAAPE will be returning to the US from Caba in a few days. She told at least one American in Cuba, Barry Rosenfeld, that she is working for CIA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SEGRET

8. In connection with my earlier query re the report from Cuba that the Revolutionary Air Force is planning to remove a couple of planes from the US to Caba without an export permit, bernie got the following information from STEPS A Cuban air force mission is in Miami conceraing the aircraft. The Cutans are happy with the way BF-RS has handled things for them even though they don't have the export license yet. As has been asked to a party in Havana to be given by Juan Aimeida in his honor. He may go on Friday. Do we have requirements for hin?

5. On the worcing of 17 August I phoned Bernie to tell him about the followup on the report concerning the planes (Haba 2653). He said Reynolds phoned him on the evening of 16 September about this. bernie said he passed the information to Customs, who said that since the Cuban air Force are the owners of the planes (they are AT 6's) there is little that can be done if they file flight pians for a local flight and then leave for Cuba. They asked Bernie for suggestions and ne said he had none. BIERS reports that the Cubens asked his if he could find American pilots for the planes - and he said he'd try, but actually has no intention of doing so. TOERS was impressed at the speed and accuracy of our information, but believes that the Cuban Goverment is being precipitate in expecting to get the planes out.

T. J. Flores
WH/III/40

SEGRET

7/BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)