# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 95-1447145 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: ,2, , , , STAFF

ADV: LA/COG (1724Z)

ACTION: LA/COG (069) INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGCIU, CIC/CEGLA, CIC/LA,
LA/COGEO, LA/COGRR, LA/SAGSC, LADORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA,
DC/LA (3/W)

95 1447145 ASP PAGE 001: IN 1447145
TOR: 231724Z AUG 95 SAOP 61839

S E C R E T 231717Z AUG 95 STAFF

CITE SAO PAULO 61839

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, BRASILIA INFO SANTIAGO, HAVANA.

FOR: LIMIT LA/COG INFO LA/COG/RR, LA/COGEO, LA/SAGSC, CIC/CEGLA

SLUGS: WNINTEL REAM

SUBJECT: TZFRESH INFO ON RIO MEETING OF CUBAN CI OFFICERS AND
* ALLEGED CIA OFFICERS TO REVIEW<JFK>AND LETELIER
  ASSASSINATIONS

REF: A. SAO PAULO 61631 95 1298402
B. SAO PAULO 61496 95 1181973
C. DIRECTOR 401709 95 1338055

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: BRASILIA: SEE PARA 5.

2. COB ASKED FOR TZFRESH/SAO PAULO FOR INFO ON REF MEETING ON
   *<JFK>AND LETELIER ASSASSINATIONS AT A DINNER HOSTED BY TZFRESH/8
   EVENING 17 AUG. ON 18 AUG, TZFRESH/17 ADVISED COB THAT SHE HAD
   CONTACTED TZFRESH/RIO, WHICH WAS SENDING AN AGENDA FOR THE
   MEETING, AND WHICH WAS LATER PASSED BY F/17 TO COB DURING A LUNCH ON
   22 AUG. F/17 ALSO ADVISED THAT TZFRESH/RIO IS SENDING PERSONNEL TO
   COVER THE MEETING, AND WILL PHOTOGRAPH PARTICIPANTS.

3. FOLLOWING IS FIELD TRANSLATION OF THE LIST OF:

TEAR. LINE

CONFERENCE PARTICIPANTS:

A. JAMES ((LESAR)). LAWYER AND INVESTIGATOR, DIRECTOR OF THE
CENTER FOR RESEARCH AND DOCUMENTATION ABOUT ASSASSINATIONS (AARC).

B. WAYNE ((SMITH)). WRITER, PROFESSOR AND DIPLOMAT. WORKED
*FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR 25 YEARS. WAS EXECUTIVE>SECRETARY OF
LATIN AMERICAN INTERESTS IN THE KENNEDY GOVERNMENT. WAS CHIEF OF THE
DESK OF LATIN AMERICAN INTERESTS IN THE KENNEDY GOVERNMENT. WAS
CHIEF OF THE DESK OF U.S. INTERESTS IN CUBA. DIRECTOR OF THE CENTER
FOR INTERNATIONAL POLICY.

C. CIRYL ((WECHT)). MEDICAL DOCTOR AND PROFESSOR. PRESIDENT
OF THE AMERICAN FORUM OF SCIENCES, MEMBER OF THE MEDICAL PANEL WHICH
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-1447145
SENSIND: SECRET
PAGE: 2

ANALYZED KENNEDY'S BODY, MEMBER OF THE DIRECTORS' COUNSEL OF THE
COALITION ON POLITICAL ASSASSINATIONS (COPA).

D. JOHN ((NEWMAN)). WRITER, HISTORIAN AND PROFESSOR.
TESTIFIED IN U.S. CONGRESS ABOUT THE KENNEDY CASE AND HAS CONNECTIONS
*TO THE CIA. WAS A CONSULTANT FOR OLIVER STONE FOR THE FILM, <JFK">AND.
*THE DOCUMENTARIES "KENNEDY AND CUBA," AND "WHO WAS<LEE HARVEY>
*<OSWALD?>" AUTHOR OF THE BOOKS<"JFK>AND VIETNAM" AND "OSWALD AND THE
CIA."

E. ED ((LOPEZ-SOTO)). LAWYER AND INVESTIGATOR ON THE COMMITTEE
ON ASSASSINATIONS IN THE U.S. CONGRESS. INTERVIEWED MORE THAT 100
WITNESSES AND ANALYZED MANY SECRET DOCUMENTS CONCERNING THE KENNEDY
CASE SUCH AS "PRO-CUBAN" AND "OSWALD IN MEXICO CITY." AUTHOR OF THE
INTELLIGENCE REPORTS, "WAS THERE A PRO-CUBAN CONSPIRACY TO
*ASSASSINATE<JFK?>"AND<"LEE HARVEY OSWALD,>THE CIA AND MEXICO CITY."

F. GAETON ((FONZI)). REPORTER AND WRITER. U.S. CONGRESSIONAL
INVESTIGATOR WHO, IN CONSEQUENCE OF HIS DISCOVERIES, WROTE AN
IMPORTANT WORK ABOUT THE KENNEDY CASE WITH RESTRICTED CIRCULATION
ENTITLED, "THE LAST CONSPIRACY." DEEPLY KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT CIA
ACTIVITIES AND ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN EXILES IN FLORIDA.

G. WILLIAM ((TURNER)). INVESTIGATOR AND EX FBI AGENT,
SPECIALIST IN MILITARY AND PARAMILITARY QUESTIONS. AUTHOR OF THE
BOOK, "THE RED HERRING: HISTORY OF THE SECRET WAR AGAINST CASTRO"
AND "HOOVER'S FBI, THE MYTH AND THE MEN."

H. JAMES ((DI EUGENIO)). WRITER AND INVESTIGATOR, AUTHOR OF
THE BOOK, "BETRAYED DESTINY."

I. GORDON ((WINSLOW)). HISTORIAN. PARTICIPATED IN THE
INVESTIGATIONS OF THE MIAMI-BASED EXCLUSIVE COMMITTEE OF
ASSASSINATIONS.

J. SAUL ((LANDAU)). JOURNALIST AND DIRECTOR OF THE WASHINGTON
INSTITUTE OF POLITICAL STUDIES. AUTHOR OF THE INVESTIGATORY BOOK
WHICH REVEALED ALL OF THE PLOT TO ASSASSINATE CHILEAN ORLANDO
LETELIER.

Κ. FABIAN ((ESCALANTE)).FONT. DIVISION GENERAL AND CHIEF OF
CUBAN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE. SPECIALIST IN THE KENNEDY CASE. DIRECTED
SEVERAL OPERATIONS TO DISRUPT CIA PLANS IN CUBA. DIRECTOR OF THE
CUBAN CENTER OF SECURITY STUDIES.

L. ARTURO ((RODRIGUEZ)). COLONEL IN THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF
INTERIOR. RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INVESTIGATIONS ON THE KENNEDY CASE FOR
THE U.S. CONGRESS.

4. FOLLOWING IS A FIELD TRANSLATION OF THE LIST OF THE
   SCHEDULED PRESENTATIONS AND PRESENTERS:

29 AUGUST

0900 -- OPENING CEREMONY
0930 -- "PARALLEL POWERS," LESAR
1100 -- "A TEST OF LEGAL EVIDENCE, WHY THE<WARREN COMMISSION>
MADE MISTAKES," WECHT AND SMITH
1400 -- "CIA, MAFIA AND CUBAN EXILE PAPERS REGARDING THE<JFK>
ASSASSINATION," FONZI, WINSLOW AND ESCALANTE.

30 AUGUST

0900 -- "CONNECTIONS WITH ESPIONAGE SERVICES," NEWMAN AND TURNER
1100 -- "THE MIAMI, NEW ORLEANS AND DALLAS TRIANGLE," DI EUGENIO
1400 -- "THE MEXICAN EPISODE," LOPEZ AND RODRIGUEZ

31 AUGUST

0900 - "PARALLEL OPERATIONS: THE LETELIER AND KENNEDY CASES,"
LANDAU
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MHFNO: 95-1447145

SECRET

SENSIND:

PAGE: 3

* 1400 "THE PLAN TO BLAME CUBA AND THE SOVIET UNION IN THE<JFK>
  ASSASSINATION," SMITH, TURNER, AND ESCALANTE.

5. FOR BRASILIA: STATION MAY WISH SHARE ABOVE TEAR LINE WITH
   AMBASSADOR. PLS ADVISE IF WE SHOULD PASS THROUGH STATE TO CONSUL
   GENERAL RIO BY SECURE FAX, OR IF AMBASSADOR WOULD PREFER TO DO SO
   FROM THERE.

6. FILE: TZFRESH; TZKILT/79; 201-969899. DECL OADR DRV HUM
   4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)