# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/CA, FI, SR 7, RF, VR

SECRET 0823152

DIR CITE MEXI 6445

LCIMPROVE 24, 06

1. REQUEST TRACES [AND INITIATION POA ON HECTOR RAFAEL LAPA
   VAZQUEZ] [DOB 6 AUG 1908 MEXICO CITY. SUBJ PESIDED CHICAGO AREA 1927-41.]
   FIRST WIFE (NU) U.S. [NATIONAL, HAS FOLL U.S. NATIONAL DAUGHTERS:]
   MRS. GRADELLE PONZIO [RESIDING 235 FREDERICK LANE, POSSELLE, TAPIA]
   PRICILLA LAVOCKI, ALSO IN POSSELLE. MEXI HAS NO TRACES ANY ABOVE.

2. [LAPA] ADVISED EMB SECURITY OFFICER 26 SEPT THAT WAS AT PARTY WEEK EARLIER WITH [SOV FIRST SEC SERGEY SERGEYEVICH KONSTANTINOV (SUSPECT KGB PESIDENT)], [TASS CORRESPONDENT PIOTR FEDOTOV] AND THIRD SOV (NU) PARTY AT HOME OF [VIRGINIA GOMEZ NIETO,] OTHER PERSON IN ATTENDANCE WAS [GOMEZ BOYFRIEND RICARDO POERY CERVANTES.] (INTERRELATIONSHIP OF ABOVE IS THAT [GOMEZ IS SUBJ'S WIFE'S HAIR DRESSER, GOMEZ] INTRODUCED SUBJ TO [POERY] ABOUT TWO MONTHS AGO. [POERY] IS PROMINENT MEXICAN JOURNALIST OF EXTREME LEFTIST ORIENTATION AND [PRESIDENT OF MEXICAN]
   ACCOSIATION OF JOURNALISTS. COMMON GROUND BETWEEN [POERY] AND [FUBA] IS THAT LATTER IS SUCCESSFUL [ADVERTISING] SALESMAN AND PUBLICIST.
   [GARCIA] CHAIN NEWSPAPERS WHICH CONSERVATIVE, IS ALSO MENTION ASSOCIATION

15417


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# MESSAGE

NOT RECONTACT SINCE HE PRO AMERICAN AND DOES NOT WANT

JEOPARDIZE HIS PRIVILEGE TRAVEL 116., NOP JEOPARDIZE POSITION HIS

[DAUGHTER'S] ASKED WHETHER SHOULD CONTINUE SEE SOUS WHO TENTATIVELY

INVITED HIM PARTY NEAR FUTURE.

4. NEXT TOLO SUBJ TAKE NO INITIATIVE WITH SOUS BUT FOR PRESENT

ACCEPT INVITES, THERE IS INTEREST COLOSITY SOV REALITIES, NOT

CHANGE CONSERVATIVE POLITICAL STANCE WHICH SUBJ SAYS KNOWN [POERY.]

5. 8 OCT SUBJ REPORTED MET [FEDOTOV] AT JOURNALIST ASSOCIATION MEETING

7 OCT, LATER ENTERTAINED [FEDOTOV], [BERZIN] AND [MITRO] AT DINNER.

[FEDOTOV] AGAIN TENDERED TENTATIVE FUTURE INVITE.

TOO EARLY SPECIFICALLY DEFINE OBJECTIVE SUBJ UTILIZATION BUT IF

POSSIBLE WITH [GROSS] ADMIT [FEDOTOV] OF [KONSTANTINOV].

BASIN DESCRIPTION, THIRD CAN AT FIRST PARTY COULD BE [SOV INFO

BULLETIN REP SERGEY SEMONOVICH [KUMHARENKO] ACCORDING LIENVOY

INFO, LATTER HAS PECULIAR INDEPENDENT PERSONALITY, FREQUENTLY TALKS

DISPARAGINGLY OF SOVAND, GETS DRUNK OFTEN, IS ON POOR TERMS WITH

FEDERAL SOVENS OFFICERS.) IF OP DEVELOPS, NO FUNDING NECESSARY.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)