2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
MHFNO: 96-3598980 SENSIND: EO PAGE: 1
/ / * E-O *
SECRET FRP: , , , , , , , , , , , , , , STAFF
CONF: EA/J INFO: DCEA/OPE, EYESONLY, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/EA,
DDO, EA/XO (4/P)
96 3598980 ASO PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 700784
TOT: 231431Z MAR 96

231431Z DIRECTOR 700784

SECRET
STAFF
TO: IMMEDIATE TOKYO.

FROM: LIMIT C/EA/J INFO CHIEF/EA, DCEA/OPE, EA/XO

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: EYES ONLY - OFFICIAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF TOKYO STATION

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE PROVIDE STATION'S EXPEDITED COMMENTS.

2. ON 22 MARCH WE WERE INFORMED THAT THE PRESIDENTIALLY *APPOINTED<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD HAS DECLARED ITS INTENTION TO RELEASE THE FACT THAT CIA HAD A STATION IN TOKYO IN THE EARLY 1960'S. APPARENTLY THERE IS SOME CORRESPONDENCE OR CABLE TRAFFIC FROM THE EARLY 1960'S ON THE SUBJECT THAT INCLUDES TOKYO STATION ON THE DISTRIBUTION LINE. WE HAVE NOT YET SEEN THE ACTUAL TRAFFIC BUT WE HAVE BEEN TASKED WITH PROVIDING COMMENTS ON HOW THIS ACTION WOULD "AFFECT CURRENT OPERATIONS, LIAISON RELATIONSHIPS, ASSETS, JAPANESE/AMERICAN RELATIONS, ETC." GIVEN THE PRESS SCRUTINY OF CIA ISSUES IN JAPAN, THERE IS NO DOUBT IN OUR MIND THAT SUCH A RELEASE WILL BE NOTICED BY THE JAPANESE MEDIA.

3. PLEASE PREPARE YOUR ARGUMENTS IN AS COMPLETE A MANNER AS POSSIBLE. WE RECOMMEND THAT QUOTES FROM AMBASSADOR MONDALE, SUPPORTING STATION'S POSITION, SHOULD ALSO BE INCLUDED. ACCORDING TO THE INFORMATION PROVIDED US, THE ADDO HAS ADDRESSED THE BOARD TWICE, MOST RECENTLY LAST MONDAY WHEN HE BRIEFED THEM ON WHY WE CANNOT REVEAL OUR INSTALLATIONS IN SCANDINAVIA, INDIA AND AUSTRALIA EVEN 30 YEARS AGO. THE BOARD ACCEPTED OUR ARGUMENTS ON SCANDINAVIA AND INDIA BUT REJECTED AUSTRALIA. ONCE THE BOARD OVERRULES US, OUR ONLY RECOURSE IS TO APPEAL TO THE WHITE HOUSE.

4. ONCE WE HAVE STATION'S ARGUMENTS IN HAND WE WILL PREPARE THE NECESSARY MEMORANDUMS TO SUPPORT YOUR POSITION. FOR THE SAKE OF STRUCTURE, WE ASK THAT YOU ORGANIZE YOUR ARGUMENTS ALONG SUBTITLED THEMES SUCH AS IN PARA 2 ABOVE, INCLUDING THE RECENT PRESS ATTENTION ON CIA ACTIVITIES AND THE HISTORICAL REFUSAL OF
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 96-3598980 SENSIND: EO PAGE: 2

SECRET

LIAISON COUNTERPARTS TO PUBLICLY ACKNOWLEDGE OUR PRESENCE. FYI, THE BOARD MEMBERS ARE ALL TOP SECRET CLEARED.

5. OUR DEADLINE ON THIS MAY BE VERY SHORT SO PLEASE EXPEDITE YOUR RESPONSE. WE APPRECIATE YOUR UNDERSTANDING.

6. CL REASON: 1.5(C); DECL: X1.

7. FILE: NONE. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 1.0.1.>

RELNO: E376810

ORIG: EA/J(BROWN,32616); REL: C/EA/J(BROWN). CL. BY 704447.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)