# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
5010-104

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

# Memorandum

**SECRET SENSITIVE**

TO: Chief, Contact Division

ATTN: Support Branch (Crowley)

FROM: Chief, Minneapolis Office

DATE: 31 August 1962

SUBJECT: Cuban Refugee Group

1.  Enclosed are three names provided by George Hauer of Cleveland, Ohio. These apparently are the leaders of the Cuban group which you and I have discussed in some detail. For the record, [Hauer] got in touch with me because we had some rather extensive debriefing sessions in 1959, and apparently he prefers to continue that relationship for the present. Headquarters' records will show, however, that he was interviewed by Gene Rittenburg in September 1960.

2.  The Cubans listed on the enclosure are the leaders of a small group which is shuttling back and forth to Cuba for the purpose of establishing reception groups, taking in medical supplies, ammunition and weapons, and to bring out other Cubans who wish to leave the country. As you know from our discussions, they are seeking help in the form of supplies, etc. [Hauer] understands that no help will be given without some measure of control by our Agency, and he agreed to provide the names for Agency consideration. The third man on the list is in Cuba at the present time. Hauer specifically requested that we treat any on-the-street investigation with great care.

3.  Please expedite any checking you might do and give me your expression of interest as soon as possible. [Hauer] is not an exceptionally patient man, and I certainly expect to receive an inquiry from him in the near future. I believe he is genuinely motivated and quite capable, and in his present position of recruiting executive personnel for Ernst & Ernst he could be quite useful to the Agency.

Vernon R. Sando
VERNON R. SANDO

VRSando/jr

Enclosure

**SECRET SENSITIVE**


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 14-00000

## SECRET SENSITIVE

1. Ernesto Rodriguez y Moreno
   Cities Service Station
   Marathon Shores Florida

   Age 35, married, three children, owner of gas station.

2. Laureano Batista
   157 S.E. 12th Street
   Miami, Florida

   Son of prominent and reputable Havana banker, Augustin Batista

3. Victor Paneque

   Age 42, Former July 20th Commander
   Presently in Cuba.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

SECRET SENSITIVE WH-829


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)