# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH
SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, Special Affairs Staff

Chief of Station, JHAVE AKK

JMPALM/Operational

A Progress Report for the Months of November and December 1963 for Identity

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCES: A. UTCA 12038, 24 October 1963
B. UTCA 11883, 15 October 1963
C. UTCA 12903, 10 October 1963

OPERATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS

1. Identity was originally contacted by JMPALM Case Officer in mid-1963. The results of Identity's assessment by the JMPALM Case Officer were reported in detail in Reference B.; It later developed that Identity was an acquaintance of AMPAL-1 who was subsequently put in contact with Identity for training and subsequent recruitment.

2. Training sessions continued between AMPAL-1 and Identity through most of November and early December 1963. As in other newly recruited JMPALM assets, the agent was regularly critiqued as to the value of his information and was provided with regular guidance in order to better strengthen his value to JMPALM. Following is a list of those persons with whom the subject is in contact on a regular basis or with whom he corresponds frequently:

a. Dominican Air Force Colonel [Pedro HENRIQUE] who visited Miami from the Dominican Republic. [BENOE] plans to return to Miami in early 1964.

b: [Antonio ALLANO] a Cuban/newspaper man now living in the Dominican Republic who occasionally visits the Miami area.

c. Retired Dominican Army Colonel [Fernando CARTAGENA] who resides in Miami, but who maintains regular correspondence with many Dominican military leaders.

d. Edward DENIS a Haitian exile currently residing in Miami, who corresponds regularly with several Haitian youth leaders who are in opposition to Duvalier and who visit Miami from time to time.

Attachments u/s/o Identity

Distribution:
1 - C/WH/4/attch USC
2 - C/SAS w/attch USC

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

MISFILED-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

a. George FRANCIS is in daily contact with ....
in Miai. FRANCIS is in daily contact with .... when the latter is in Miai, and is visited by Identity frequently.

b. Haric, ISOBA del Caribe and Jean Louis ROSSIER Dominican newspapermen who frequently visit Miani and are old acquaintances of Identity.

c. Lazy "CAMILLE" Camille Lesille: one-time Haitian diplomat who now resides in Port-au-Prince, but plans to visit Miami in early 1968 (See UTGA-11873).

d. Identity uses several exile front groups as cover for his meetings with his Miami contacts and in strengthening his position as a trusted acquaintance in his communications with the aforementioned sub-sources in the Dominican Republic and Haiti.

e. Identity has presented no problems of a security nature during the period under review and no problems are foreseen at this time. He knows the JMPALM Case Officer only as "Jorge" and meets regularly with (AMPAL-1) under secure conditions.

f. Subject has not yet been granted a JMPALM cryptonym as was requested in reference C which transmitted Identity's PRQ Part II to Headquarters.

> [Figure: a handwritten text that reads "RUDOLPH SABOUN 201-734802 CIT: HAITI nephew of Henge Francis (201-737703); Subj is Haitian Consul in Miami, Florida"]

6. During the months of November and December Identity is credited with having provided JHPALM with the following intelligence reports:

*   UTG 4045 "Visit to the Dominican Republic by Unidentified Representative of Venezuelan President Romulo Betancourt"

*   UTG 4046 "Political Activities Against the Civilian Junta in the Dominican Republic"

*   UTG 4169 "Permission for the Movimiento Democrata Cristiano (HDC) to Establish a Cuban Exile Base in Venezuela" and "Involvement of Former Cuban President Carlos Prio Socarras with the HDC."

*   UTG 4187 "Plans of the Dominican Triumvirate to Appoint General Elias Wessin y Wessin to the Post of Minister of War."

*   UTG 4288 "Alleged Plans for a Military Coup d'état in Venezuela."

*   UTG 4288 "Plans of Dominican Military Leaders to Sabotage the San Isidro Air Base."

*   UTG 4268 "Attempts of the 14th of June Movement to Deter Recognition of the Dominican Triumvirate by the U.S."

*   UTG 4260 "Cuban Exile Plans to set up anti-Communist Radio and Television Programs in the Dominican Republic."


*   November 1998 Salary $175.00
*   December 1998 Salary $200.00
*   Christmas Bonus $ 25.00

Total $400.00


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

UTGA-22503

FUTURE PLANS

8. Identity will continue to be Est by AMPAL-1 until 1 March 198 when his protectica, will be further evaluated and he will be turned over to ATY-1 for handling ca a permanent basis. It will be noted that ACCROTHY-1 who was recruited for a job as JHPALM principal agent to handle saveral recently acquired assets, is now undergoing training by AAL-l in an effort to better groom this agent for the principal agent job.

END OF DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
Separate Cover Attachment to UTGA 13543

IDENTITY: (Pedro VALDIVIA) 201-301754 CIT. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC?

AmiAmi, FLORIDA Re: contact of subj

IN miami, FLORIDA."

SECRET

Encl to UFGA 13543

21 Jan 64 201-301754


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)