# SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CS-3640
#18333

OGC 76-57
10-20-76

7 October 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

ATTENTION : Mr. Rod Brooks

FROM : Joel E. Keys, Chief
Corporate Cover Branch
Central Cover Staff

SUBJECT : Request for Letter of Agreement

1. Please prepare a Letter of Agreement between the Agency and 06 (LPBLUE, which through the President of the firm, Mr. Emmett M. Steele)
   has agreed to place on retainer a Contract Agent of Europe Division,
   02(TOPHONE/1. John J. Murray, Jr. represented the Agency in these
   negotiations. Identities will be forwarded under separate cover.

2. Effective 1 October 1976, (LEBLUE will place on retainer (TOPHONE/1
   at an annual retainer of $9,000, which will be paid to him in monthly
   increments of $750 by CLEBLUE. The Company will overtly negotiate a
   retainer contract with COPHONE, which will make eminently clear that
   both are negotiating and concluding the contract as independent
   parties; that the Company, (LEBLUE, will have no obligation to withhold
   Federal, or state income taxes, or Social Security taxes.

3. In consideration of the support rendered, the Agency will
   pay (LABLUE $10,000 annually. Provision is made in this amount to
   offset any nominal expenses the firm incurs in its overt associations
   or support of TOPHONE/1. It also serves, in part, to minimize the
   chances that auditing personnel will identify a wash transfer between
   the notional facility and payments to TOPHONE/1.

4. The Agency will reimburse (LPBLUE in quarterly increments
   via a contrived contractual arrangement between LPBLUE and a notional
   facility of the Agency. Cancelled checks will serve as adequate
   accountings for monies paid (LBLUE.

5. Please include the usual paragraphs of appreciation, secrecy,
   and prohibition of bona fide employment.

6. All information relating to this agreement is classified
   secret. Both the Agency and the Company agree that the most stringent
   safeguards will be taken to protect this information, including the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

existence of the agreement. Any information in any form that must
be given to a third party by either the Agency or the Company will
be done in strict conformance to the laws safeguarding national
security information, and only with full consultation between the
Agency and the Company.

JOEL E. KEYS

-2-

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)