2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OGC 69-0181

31 January 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Herbert Itkin

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

1.  A meeting was held on 27 January 1969 with Messrs. Rocca, Houston, Warner and myself to discuss the ramifications of the confrontation with the New York FBI office on 17 January. It was concluded that additional information was required on (Thomas L. Roberts) and (Robert Delson). I contacted the Director of Security and requested the security files on these two individuals and was advised that we could not have the security files but that Mr. Ward Greene would bring the files to the office and discuss their contents openly.

2.  On 29 January, Mr. Greene brought the security files on (Roberts) and (Delson) and was most cooperative in explaining their contents. Attached is a chronological rundown on the pertinent information on (Thomas L. Roberts) affiliation with the FBI, CIA and Itkin.

3.  On 30 January, a meeting was held with Messrs. Houston, Warner, Rocca, and (Eugene Milligan) CCS (LP) GLOBE, to discuss the operational use of Mr. (Roberts). Mr. (Roberts) has been a Staff Agent of CIA since 28 August 1961. From March 1964 to November 1964 he spent time in (West Africa) writing a monograph on (West African legal) problems. It should be noted that this task was performed under a grant from a foundation which was blown in the MHDOWEL exposures. In November 1964 (Roberts) was assigned for Cover to the Radio Corporation of America legal) staff where he remained until March 1965 and then went to (Dakar)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4. The facts in the attached chronology are subject to question since they are the result of (Roberts) own explanation of his affiliation with Itkin rather than having been determined from independent sources. The most critical aspect would appear to be the knowledge or suspicion that Itkin may have known of 03(Roberts) affiliation with CIA. This knowledge is borne out by the strange way in which Itkin repeatedly brings(Roberts) name into the story which Itkin develops about his CIA affiliations. One of the questions to be answered by (L)GLOBE personnel is whether or not (Roberts) reported his activities with Itkin in Geneva, Switzerland, in March 1966. There appears to be no record of 03(Roberts') having explained why he never pursued the Itkin debt or what his financial contribution was to the (law firm of Itkin, Roberts and Greenbaum.)

5. Mr. Rocca was advised by Mr. Sam Papich of the FBI that the New York District Attorney may be considering prosecution against (Roberts) for having absconded with funds received from negligence cases. We do not have sufficient information to evaluate the likelihood of criminal prosecution. It may be necessary to discuss this problem with representatives of Mr. Hogan's office.

6. With regard to (Robert Delson) there appear to have been two operational considerations, one having been a request to use him with Project DTPILLAR from November 1953 to February 1955, and then a request in 1963 by the Domestic Operations Division for his use on Project WUBRINY. In March 1964 DO Division advised Security that (Delson) was not going to be used on WUBRINY. Mr. Rocca commented that there are some rather ominous allegations against members of the firm of (Delson, Levin and Gordon) indicating that one member of the firm was a card-carrying member of the Communist Party. At the present time Mr. Rocca is investigating the DTPILLAR use of Mr. (Delson.)

Attachment

cc: C/CI/B&A

JOHN K. GREANEY
Assistant General Counsel


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)