# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA'S HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: TARASOFF, ANNA.
OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FILE

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: C/LAD

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 8 June        |               | DAN HARDWAY              | Dan Hardway                     |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

26 March 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Finance/C&TD

SUBJECT : Verification of Contract Service for
Sandra B. CAZAZZUS (P), Terminated Contract Employee

1. During period 8 April 1957 through 8 September 1953, subject served as an Agency Staff Employee. During this period, subject was a participating member of the Civil Service Rotirement System.

2. During period 15 July 1964 through 19 October 1970, subject served as a part-time contract employee on a prearranged regular scheduled tour of duty. With respect to this period of service:

(a) Period 15 July 1964 through 7 September 1967 is creditable for purposes of Civil Service Retirement. Since subject was covered by Social Security during this period, Civil Service Retirement deductions were not withheld.

(b) During period 8 September 1967 through 19 October 1970, subject was a participating member of the Civil Service Retirement System.

3. Action Required:

(a) Office of Finance: Please post the above information to subject's retirement records.

(b) DDP/WH/Contracts: For your information.

/s/
Chief
Coutract Personnel Division

Distribution:
Orig - O/F/C&TD
1 - WH/Contracts
1 - CPD subject file
1 - CPD chrono


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

11 MAR 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Civil Service Retirement Credit

1. It is requested that information be provided as to the creditable service for the Civil Service Retirement program for the following individuals.

Kurt B. CANEPA
Sandra B. CAZAZZUS
Ralph M. SAMOSKA
Jesse D. WITCHARD

2. Although the named individuals are no longer employed by the Organization, the creditable service can be of particular significance to each.

3. Your early attention to the request will be appreciated.

![signature] William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

23 March 1971

MEMORANDUM FOR: Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT : Sandra B. CAZAZZUS

Following are the total number of hours for each year worked by Sandra B. CAZAZZUS under contract. The information was provided this office by Payroll.

| Period of Source | TO   | WORKED    |
| ---------------- | ---- | --------- |
| 15 JUL 64        | 1964 | 551 hours |
| JAN 65           | 1965 | 789       |
| JAN 66           | 1966 | 1091      |
| JAN 67           | 1967 | 1092      |
| JAN 68           | 1968 | 1486      |
| JAN 69           | 1969 | 1414      |
| 70               | 1970 | 1217      |

Dow:

This gal had two contracts. The first one included a leave benefit. This first K ended and was immediated replaced by a 2nd K, which included Civil Service Retirement.

From the number of hours worked I feel we can make a determination that she during the full period she worked in a part-time basis on a prearranged reg. sch. tour of duty. If you concur, I will write a std. type memo to C/Finance.

Subject is now terminated, but in WH field with her husband. Bill Kenehan has a dispatch in asking that Hqtrs. verify her total K service.

Paul.
23 Mar 71

ok-DK

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# Contract Service - Sandra B.CAZA**(P)

| Date      | Action                                                              | Comments     |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| 8 Apr 57  | CIA Staff Employee service                                          |              |
| 8 Sep 63  |                                                                     |              |
| 15 Jul 64 | Contract Employee with Social Security. No LPAs or PSIS.            | $2.59 p.h.   |
| 14 Aug 64 | Pay increase                                                        | 2.72         |
| 10 Oct 65 | Pay increase Authorized future LPAs.                                | 2:62         |
| 3 Jul 66  | LPI                                                                 | 2.90         |
| 7 Sep 67  | Contract terminated                                                 | 2.90         |
| 8 Sep 67  | Contract Employee with Civil Service Retirement; and LPAS. No P313. | 2.90         |
| 8 Oct 67  | LPI                                                                 | 3.07         |
| 14 Jul 68 | LPI                                                                 | 3.12 GS-05/5 |
| 13 Jul 69 | LPI                                                                 | 3.37 GS-05/5 |
| 28 Dec 69 | LPI                                                                 | 3.57 GS-05/5 |
| 19 Oct 70 | Contract terminated                                                 | 3.57         |

NOTE: On 24 Mar 1971, subject's official Staff Employee file was reviewed. It reflected; (a) staff employee service from 8 Apr 57 to 8 Sep 63; (b) during entire period was a participating member of the Civil Service Retirement System; (c) site was on LWOP during period 12 Jun-8 Sop 63; and her SF-144 dated 8 Apr 57 reflect no prior Federal Service.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# 1. LAST NAME

TARASOFF, AMKA

# 2. APPOINTMENT DATA

A 75769

Subject to Sec 203d), 1951 Leave Act

Yes No

Ceased to be subject to Sec 203d) on

# 3. TOTAL SERVICE FOR LEAVE

(as of date of separation)

Years Months Days

More than 15 years

# 4. DATE AND NATURE OF SEPARATION

Contract terminated 10/19/70

SUMMARY OF ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

SUMMARY OF HOME LEAVE

(HOURS) ANNUAL SICK (DAYS) REMARKS

5. Balance from prior leave year ended 1/10 275 256 14. Date arrival abroad for HL purposes NONE SCD

6. Current leave year accrual through 10/17 89 56 15 Current balance as of 19 7/15/64

7. Total 364 312 16 12-month accrual rate

8. Reduction in credits, if any (current year) 17 Dates leave used prior 24 months

9. Total leave taken 0 0 18. Monthly accrual date

10. Balance 364 312 19 Calendar days credit for next accrual date

11. Total hours paid in lump sum 360hrs 2 holidays 20 Date basic service period completed

12. Salary rate(s) $3.57 p/h MILITARY LEAVE

13. Lump sum leave dates 21. Dates during current calendar yr to

From 0800. 10/17 to 1700 12/22/70 0 22 Dates during preceding calendar yr to

(Hours)

ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY

LWOP of AWOL or

23 During leave year in which separated Furlough Suspension

(Hours)

24 During step-increase waiting 8/14/64 0 0

period which began on

25 During 12-month accrual period (dates) 0 0

Auth gert.officer

Standard Form 1150

November 1969

1150-106

RECORD OF LEAVE DATA TRANSFERRED

US CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION FPM SUPPLEMENTS 296-31 AND 990-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET
(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

| 1 SERIAL NUMBER | 2 NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE) |
| --------------- | -------------------------- |
| C13175          | CAZAZZUS SANDRA B          |

| 3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION | 4 EFFECTIVE DATE | 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------ |
| CONTRACT TERMINATION         | 12 1 70          | CONTRACT-TYPE: A (S)     |
(1BCHLOT)

| 6           | 7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO CHARGEABLE | 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY |
| ----------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| V TO V      | 1155-C970                          |                                 |
| **A** FUNDS | *x* V TO CF                        |                                 |
| CF TO V     | CF TO CF                           |                                 |

9. ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION
   WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIV

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

11. | POSITION TITLE | 12 POSITION NUMBER | 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION |
    | -------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------- |
    TRANSLATOR

14. | CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18, etc.) | 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES | 16 GRADE AND STEP | 17 SALARY OR RATE |
    | -------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- |
    | (PART TIME) GS                         | 10+5.0                 | 05 5              | DNG: 07:50+       |
    | STATUS INFORMATICA                     | 5.76 LAI: 07:564       |                   |                   |

MARITAL ST: MAS NC. DEPENDENTS: 00
CITIZENSHIP: CS/BIRTH LONGEVITY COMP: 071554 FEC SERVICE COMP:
TYPE RETIREMENT: CSC HOSPITILIZATION: F PLAN:
FEGLI: YES PREV. GOVT SERV: 5 SAL. TASK LIMIT:
PAY BASIS: H A/L INC: 3 S/L ING:
EFF CATE: 090357 EXPIRATION CATE: 09077 DATE ORIG CONTRACT: 07.564
REFERRING OFFICER: WH ADMIN REPR ORG: WH PHONE: 4-60
TAX STAFF: Y ENTITLEMENTS/ELIGIBILITIES/ALLOWANCES STATE:
TRAVEL: NNN FLO EXMF: STATE EXMP: POST/EQUAL: N
HOME LEAVE: 0 OPS EXPNSE: N HOUSING: A STO GOVT: N
LEGISL PAY: Y DIFFERENTIAL: N OFFSET CLAUSE: ALLOWANCE COMM: N EDUCATION: N
STEP INCRS: N PREMIUM PAY : N OTHER ALLOWNS N SEPARATION: A
GTH TAX ENTL: N

NOTE: ITEMS PRECEDED BY AN ASTERISK REFLECT CHANGED DATA

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form 11503 Use Previous SECRET GROUP I
7-66 MFG. 11-69 Edition Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
(4-51)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

CLEARANCE SHEET FOR TERMINATION OF CONTRACT PERSONNEL

THIS FORM MUST BE SIGNED AND SUBMITTED IN DUPLICATE

## PERSONAL DATA

|                                                                             |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **DATE** 25 January 1971                                                    |
| **NAME (Last, First, Middle - true or pseudonym):** CAZAZZUS, Sandra B. (P) |
| **OFFICE AND BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT** DOP/A31/1                               |
| **LOCAL ADDRESS** Mexico City, Mexico                                       |
| **PERMANENT ADDRESS** Cleveland, Ohio                                       |
| **PERMANENT STATION OR BASE** Mexico City, Mexico                           |
| **POSITION OR FUNCTIONAL TITLE** Contract Employee, Type B                  |

## CONTRACT DATA

|                                                            |                                                 |                                            |                                                  |
| ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------ |
| **DATE CONTRACT EFFECTIVE** 15 July 1964                   | **DATE CONTRACT LAST RENEWED** 8 September 1970 | **DATE CONTRACT EXPIRES** 7 September 1971 | **DATE OF CONTRACT TERMINATION** 19 October 1970 |
| **REASON FOR CONTRACT TERMINATION** Retirement of husband. |                                                 |                                            |                                                  |

## INTERNAL STAFF OR DIVISION CLEARANCES (Add or delete as applicable)

| COMPONENT | CLEARED BY | DATE | REMARKS |
| --------- | ---------- | ---- | ------- |
| FINANCE   |            |      |         |
| LOGISTICS |            |      |         |
| *SOOOOOX* |            |      |         |
| Security  |            |      |         |

CONTRACT APPROVING OFFICER CLEARED BY (Signature) W.S. Renehan, C/BI/Contracts

SCHEDULE OF INTERVIEWING OFFICES

(OFFICES NOT REQUIRING INTERVIEW WILL SO INDICATE)

| OFFICE                  | DATE | TIME | SCHEDULE               | LOCATION | INTERVIEWING OFFICIAL | CLEARED BY (Signature) |
| ----------------------- | ---- | ---- | ---------------------- | -------- | --------------------- | ---------------------- |
| CENTRAL COVER STAFF     |      |      |                        |          |                       |                        |
| OFFICE OF SECURITY PSD  |      |      | OS #131 751 13 July 64 |          |                       |                        |
| OFFICE OF PERSONNEL CPD |      |      |                        |          |                       |                        |

DATE REVIEWED: /s/ Dow H. Luotocher Special Cont. Officer

REMARKS (Please initial) Duplicate - advance copy to OF/C&TD/CEAS 30 October 1970.

STAFF OR DIVISION AND BRANCH OF ASSIGNMENT CAH/1

SIGNATURE OF STAFF OR DIVISION RESPONSIBLE OFFICER

DATE

FORM 1689

SECRET

(9)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

HIGH 3 BASED ON LAST 3 YEARS AS CONTRACT

OCT. 67 - DEC 27 $607.02

JAN - DEC 68 4549.34

JAN - DEC 69 4935.06

JAN - OCT 70 4335.49

$14428.87 ÷ 3 = $4809.63

HIGH 3 REFIRE

1 ½ % x 4809.63 x 5 = $360.70

1 ¾ % x 4809.63 x 5 = 420.85

2% x 4809.63 x 2.5 = 240.48

$1022.03 utility

---

HIGH 3 BASED ON LAST 3 YEARS & STAFF

JUN 62 - JUN 63 $5545 656/4

JUN 61 - JUN 62 5160 6/3

JAN 61 - JUN 61 2497 6/2

JUN 60 - DEC 60 2255 5/2

$15457 ÷ 3 = $5152.33

1 ½ % x $5152.33 x 5 = $386.45

1 ¾ % x $5152.33 x 5 = 450.85

2% x $5152.33 x 2.5 = 257.63

$1094.93 Annuity


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CAZIZZUS (P) TARASCHE 8 FEB

1. She is not eligible for retirement annuity until she's 62 yrs. old - or 5 May 1985.

STAFF (CSR) Apr 57 - Jan 63 - Mar 63

→CONTRACT (SS) Jul 64 - Sept 67

" (CSR) Sept 67 - Oct 70

No Refund of Retirement deductions due here regardless, either from Staff or Contract employment.

Form 2802

Resignation effective $1781.83

Sept 1963

57-63 CS Deductions while a Staffer $1781.83

67-70 " Contract 961.24

TOTAL $2743.07

Sept $2.90 Oct 70

Oct 67 $3.03 Sept 57

14 Jul 3.12

Sept 67 $6.09 Dec 67

6-8 $4549.34

6-9 4935.06

Oct 70 4335.47


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISPATCH

ID
Chief, W H Division

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

INFO.

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
ADIUM/CONTRACTS - Termination Sandra B. CAZAZZUS

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

1.  Sandra B. CAZAZZUS' contract was terminated effective
    19 October 1970. Since her husband is retiring, she will no
    longer be available for employment.

2.  Submitted herewith is a signed contract termination
    and termination secrecy oath.

![Zachary T. Alanta Signature]

Attachments:

Contract termination - Orig & 1. b/w
Termination secrecy oath - Orig & 1. b/w

Distribution:

Orig & 2 - Chief, WH Division w/att.

![Received] 30 OCT 1970

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMT 10,578

DATE
22 October 1970

CLASSIFICATION
MOS FILE NUMBER
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

TERMINATION SECRECY OATH

I, Sandra B. CAZAZZUS an about to terminate my association with the Organization. I realize that, by virtue of my duties with the Organization, I have been the recipient of information and intelligence which concerns the present and future security of our country. I am aware that the unauthorized disclosure of such information is prohibited by the espionage laws of our government which specifically requires the protection of intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure. Accordingly, I SOLEMNLY SWEAR, WITHOUT MENTAL RESERVATION OR PURPOSE OF EVASION, AND IN THE ABSENCE OF DURESS, AS FOLLOWS:

1.  I will never divulge, publish, or reveal by writing, word, conduct, or otherwise any information relating to the national defense and security and particularly information of this nature relating to intelligence sources, methods, personnel, fiscal data, or security measures to anyone, including, but not limited to, any future governmental or private employer, private citizen, or government employee or official without the express written consent of the Chief of the Organization or his authorized representative.

2.  I have been invited to submit in writing any monetary claims I may have against the Organization or our government which may in any way necessitate the disclosure of information described herein. I have been advised that any such claims will receive full legal consideration. In the event, however, that I am not satisfied with the decisions of the Organization concerning any present or future claims I may submit, I will not take any other action to obtain satisfaction without prior written notice to the Organization, and then only in accordance with such legal and security advice as the Organization will promptly furnish me.

3.  I do not have any documents or materials in my possession, classified or unclassified, which are the property of, or in custodial responsibility of the Organization, having come into my possession as a result of my duties with the Organization or otherwise.

4.  During my exit processing and during my period of employment with the Organization I have been given an opportunity to report all information about the Organization, its personnel, and its operations which I consider should receive official cognizance. Hence, I am not aware of any information which it is my duty, in the national interest, to disclose to the Organization, nor am I aware of any violations or breaches of security which I have not officially reported, except as set forth on the reverse side of this sheet or on other attachments.

Le 30 OCT 1970

SECRET

mg OS/ID


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

Page 2

5. I have been advised that, in the event I'am called upon by the properly constituted authorities to testify or provide information which I am plained hereby not to disclose, I will nitify the Organization immediately; I will also advise said authorities of my secret comitments to our government and will request that my right or need to testify be established before I am required to do so.

6. I ant aware of the provisions and penalties of the espioinge laws of our goveririent and am fully aware that any violation on my part of certain matters sworn to byde infer this oath may subject me to prosecution under the terms of these laws, and tint violation of other portions of this oath are subject to appropriate action, including such dissemination of the violation as the circumstances terrent.

I have read and understand the contents of this oath and voluntarily affix my signature hereto with the full knowledge that this oath was executed for the mutual benefit of myself and our government, and that it will be retained in the files of the Organization for its nature use or for reference by me at any time in the future that I may be requested or ordered to testify or disclose any of the matters included within the scope of this oath.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have set my hand and seal this 16 day of October 19 70.

Sandra B. Cazazmi (SEAL)
Signature Sandra E, CAZAZZUS.

Witnessed by me this 16 day of October 19 70
at Mexico City, Mexico

![signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRE

Miss Eandra B. CAZAZZUS

Dear Miss CAZAZZUS

You are hereby notified that your services under a contract with the United States Government, effective 8 September 1967 are to be terminated at the convenience of the United States Covernment pursuant to paragraph 4 of said contract, and that the 30 days' notice required by the contract begins 19 September 1970

You are reminded of the contents of paragraph 4 of said contract which read as follows::

". Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason hereof (unless released in writing by the United States Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under applicable laws and regulations."

Your signature in the space provided below is acknowledge- ment of the contents hereto.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

By

Field Contracting officer

Acknowledged:

Witness:

Reviewed:

Contract Approving Officer

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

NON-STAFF PERSONNEL DATA SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. SUBMIT FOR:
A. CONTRACT EMPLOYEES (TYPE A. SAND CARTER)
B. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS UNDER WRITTEN CONTRACT OR NOC (US CITIZENS OR RESIDENT ALIENS *ONLY*)
2. THIS FORM IS *NOT* APPLICABLE FOR OPERATIONAL OR FIELD AGENTS
3. COPIES OF THE FORM WILL BE RETAINED BY THE ORIGINATING COMPONENT (NUMBER OF COPIES AT ITS DISCRETION) AND BY CSPS/AGENT BRANCH (1 COPY ONLY)

DATE 12 Oct 70

NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

CAZAZZUS, Sandra B. (P)

SEX

Female

DATE OF BIRTH 5 May 23

MARITAL STATUS

Married

NO. DEPENDENTS

2

YEAR(S) OF BIRTH

1945, 49

NATIONALITY

U.S.A.

LAST MEDICAL EXAM

DATE OF LATEST SECURITY/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

JOB TITLE

Unknown
COMPONENT

Type B, 13 July 1964

Transcriber

DDPA/AH/1

CONTRACT CATEGORY

EFFECTIVE DATE

EXPIRATION DATE

SALARY

GRADE EQUIVALENT

PROJECT OR FAN #

Type B

15 July 64

7 Sep 71

$3.67

GS-5/6

SUPPORT

BENEFITS

YES

NO

SOCIAL SECURITY

X

FECA DEATH AND DISABILITY

X

ANNUAL AND SICK LEAVE

X

CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT

X

CIA RETIREMENT OR COMMERCIAL CIA ANNUITY

X

FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE

X

X

CONTRACT LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE

X

X

MISSING PERSONS BENEFITS

OTHER (EXPLAIN)

NON-CIA EDUCATION

High School Graduate

NON-CIA EMPLOYMENT

| DATES FROM - TO | EMPLOYER                | LOCATION                | FUNCTION              | SALARY |
| --------------- | ----------------------- | ----------------------- | --------------------- | ------ |
| 1944-45         | Cleveland Trust Company | Cleveland, Ohio         | Bookkeeper            |        |
| 1955-56         | American Trust Company  | San Leandro, California | Commercial Bookkeeper |        |

CIA TRAINING

CIA EMPLOYMENT HISTORY (BEGINNING WITH EOD)

| DATES FROM TO  | FUNCTION     | CONTR. CAT. | LOCATION    | PROJECT | SALARY           | GRADE EQUIT. |
| -------------- | ------------ | ----------- | ----------- | ------- | ---------------- | ------------ |
| Apr 57-Jun 63  | Clerk-Typist | Staff       | Hqs         |         | EOD as GS-4      |              |
| Jul 64-present | Transcriber  | B           | Mexico City | SUPPORT | Resign, as $3.67 | GS-5/6       |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

FACTORS AFFECTS SUBJECT (PUBLIC, PRIVATE, FALSE, TV); KNOWN OR SUSPECTED IDENTIFICATION TO OTHER THAN CIA STAFF PERSONNEL, INTELLIGENCE, OR SECURITY SERVICES.

## COVER

A. PRESENT COVER IS: ☐ OFFICIAL **Performed her secretarial/transcribing duties outside the Static.**

DIVISION EVALUATION OF COVER SECURITY:

Satisfactory

EVALUATION OF PERFORMANCE:

Satisfactory

ADAPTABILITY (SUBJECT AND FAMILY) TOWARDS DUAL LIFE:

No problem.

B. PREVIOUS COVER WAS: ☑ OFFICIAL ☐ NON-OFFICIAL (GIVE BRIEF DESCRIPTION IF NOC)

## MOBILITY

INDICATE LIMITING FACTORS: BOTH PERSONAL AND OPERATIONAL

## FUTURE UTILIZATION

INDICATE PLANS OR RECOMMENDATIONS FOR USE AFTER CURRENT ASSIGNMENT

None


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Bill Montgomery
CCS/CTS
6697
12 October 1970

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 21
SECRET

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET
13 Oct 70 21 172 CITE DIRECTOR 077.157
MEXICO CITY
JBCENT/ADMIN

1. PLEASE ADVISE DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS AND SANDRA B. CAZAZZUS THAT THE FLAT RATE TAX HAS INCREASED TO 18.4 PER CENT EFFECTIVE WITH PAY PERIOD ENDING 20 SEPTEMBER 1970,

2. STATION SHOULD START WITHHOLDING TAX AT HIGHER RATE IMMEDIATELY, DISPATCH FOLLOWS.

END OF MESSAGE

COORD:
WH/CON
WH/A/NCC Keylar thating

C/WH/SS
C/CCS/CTS

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

14 OCT

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

Miss Sandra B. CAZAZZUS

Dear Miss CAZAZZUS

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 8 Sept. 1967, as amended, which expires 8 Sept. 1970.

Effective 8 Sept. 1970, said contract, as amended, is extended for one (1) year.

All other terms and conditions of said contract, as amended, remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
By
Contracting Officer

Accepted:
Shandra B. Cazazzus
Concur:
Orelle
Witness:
Date:

Approved.

REVIEWED:
/s/ Dow H. Luetscher
Special Contracting. Officer

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WH Division
ADMIN/CONTRACTS
Sandra B. CAZAZZUS, Contract Provisions

Reference: HMMT-9892

1. Reference indicated Sandra B. CAZAZZUS is a Contract
   Employee who is required to perform her duties during various
   hours of the day as well as a varying number of hours in order
   to meet operational deadlines.

Reference asked that the contract for CAZAZZUS be amended
to provide reimbursement of six hours per day when in a leave
status and for paid holidays retroactively to 8 September 1967.

2. The request is answered by the Station's explanation--
   urless and until there has been established in advance a regular
   tour of duty, an individual is not eligible for leave or holiday
   pay (sec FHB 20-1 and FR 20-13).

In the event the basic criteria is met (FHB 20-1), the
effective date could not be retroactive.

Hugh E. WESTBY

Distribution: 2-COS, Mexico City

![Table with dispatch symbol and classification information]

1-WH/1
1-WH/Contracts
1-WH/Registry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Anna A. Tarasoff

FROM: RID/D&P/INCOMING EXTENSION NO. Amrit 9892

GB-12 DATE 1 0 SEP 1969

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. Chief/WH/Reg. 11SEP1969

2. 
3. CWH/SS

4. 
5. WH/content 13SEP69 13SEP69 Dwo

6. 
7. C/WH/1

8. WH/Contracts

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
Your comments please. Subject's contract already provides for sick and annual leave effective 15 July 64, and she is considered a part-time contract employee on a regularly scheduled tour of duty. Subject's contract does not provide for overtime and holiday time. Her contract would have to be amended to include this provision.

6-8 Please advise that under control carotid appears Pare 3 leges.

![signature]

FORM 610. USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Wil Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:
*   MARYED FOR INDEXING
*   NO DIDEXING REQUIRED
*   ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
*   CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

SUBJECT: ADMIN/CONTRACTS
Sandra B. CACACZUS (C/E) (132830) - Contract Entitlements

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

References: A. Book Dispatch - 6496
B. Book Dispatch - 6144

1.  Subject is a contract employee who is required to perform her duties during various hours of the day (including a varying number of hours) in order to meet operational deadlines.

2.  Even though CAZAZZUS' contract allows her annual and sick leave benerits, she has not been reimbursed for any leave during the period 8 September 1967 to the present. In addition, the Station has not reimbursed her for any holidays, WOLADY or local, while other contract employees whose contracts call for a regularly scheduled tour of duty, have received compensation.

3.  Since subject has worked an average of 30 hours per week, with Headquarters concurrence, it is recommended that she be reimourzeć six hours per day when in a leave status and for paid holidays retroactively to 8 September 1967, the effective date of her present contrect.

![signature]
for/John A. AUBERT

Distribution: C/WILD

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMT - 9892

DATE: 3 September 1969

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HOS FILE NUMBER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of Finance

FROM: Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Contract Extension for

1.  Effective 3 September 1969 (the contract as amended) for the subject Individual, effective 8 October 1967 is extended for a period of cas (1) year.

2.  All other terms and conditions of the contract (as amended) remain in full force and effect.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY
Contracting Officer

SECRET

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Contract Extension

It is requested that the contract for the following named individual(s) be amended to extend the term as indicated.

Jayanity, Canna Cl
CAZAZZUS, Sandra B. Through 7 September 1970

![signature]
William V. Broe
Chief
Western Hemisphere Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

DATE:

CTC No.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Finance

ATTENTION: Chief, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Tax Assessment for

1.  A flat rate covert tax assessment of this individual's gross, taxable Agency entitlements has been approved as indicated below. An acknowledged Letter of Tax Instruction has been ☐ will ☐ will not be forwarded. The Station/Base will be ☐ has been ☐ advised of this assessment.

Tax Assessment Rate Effective Date

2.  This is a new assessment ☐ a revised assessment ☐

3.  Other payroll factors pertinent to this tax assessment action are as follows:

CONTACT APPROVAL:

/s/ Dow H. Luetschef

Chief, C.P.D.

APPROVED:

Executive Secretary, Covert Tax Board

DISTRIBUTION: Orig & 1- Addressee: 1 Copy CPD: 1 Copy Area Division: 2 Copies CCS

FORM 2643 OBSOLETE
9-69 PREVIOUS EDITION

SECRET 11-4-211

3- CPD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, FOGALLE
ADM/JBCENT - Sandra B. CAZAZZUS (p) - Revision of Tax Assessment Rate

REFERENCE: Letter of Tax Instruction, HMMS-5711, 14 Dec 1967

1. Please advise FEINGLASS that his flat rate percentage tax assessment has been revised by the Tax Staff from thirteen and nine-tenths (13.9) per cent, established by reference, to twenty and eight-tenths (20.8) per cent, effective 29 June 1969, T/Y 1969. This revision is necessary as his incosse and tax position have changed to such a degree as to make the previous tax assessment rate unrealistic. A computation of the revised tax rate is attached.

2. This assessment revision is incorporated by referenco as an amendment to FEINGLASS' Letter of Tax Instruction.

3. From the information submitted to the Tax Staff, it appears that PEINGLASS' daughter qualifies as a dependent.. The new tax computations are based on five exemptioas. Also, FEINGLASS should list five exemptions on his 1969 tax return,

VICTOR D. UNITSKY

Attachment: As Noted

Distribution:
Orig. & 1- COS (w/att)
1 - C/CFD (wo/att)
1 - OF/C&TD/CPB (wo/att)
1-C/WH/1 (wo/att)
1 - WH/Contracts

HMMS-6524

SECRET

11 August 1969


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

NOTE FOR FILE:

CAZAZZUS' husband's (FEINGLASS) retirement

date extended to Nov. 70.

![Date stamp of 25 JUN 1969]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# DISPATCH

Chief, WH Division

Chief, SB Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Annual Fitness Report - Sandra B. CAZAZZUS

XX NO PENDING REQUIRED

1.  Attached are copies of an Annual Fitness Report on Sandra B. CAZAZZUS.

2.  CAZAZZUS and her husband make a good and efficient team on the duties assigned to them.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment: herewith

Distribution:

(2 - C/WH Division w/att.

1 - C/SB Division w/o att.

HMMT-9523

29 January 1959

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The following items of the Fimess Report will NOT be completed by field personnel preparing the report for transmitted to Headquarters:
SECTION A, Items 1, 6, and 7
SECTION D, toms 1, 2, and 3 (Only in respect to "Typed or Printed Nano and Signature")

|                                                                                                                                                                                                          |                                                                                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. I CERTIFY THAT HAVE SEEN THIS FITNESS REPORT                                                                                                                                                          | DATE 29 January 1969                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                                                                                          | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE (in peruchmy) Sandra B. CAZAZZus         |
| 2. I CERTIFY THAT, EXCEPT FOR ITEMS OMITTED UNDER INE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS, ALL ITEMS APPEARING ON THE ATTACHED FITNESS REPORT HAVE BEEN COMPLETED UNDER PROVISIONS OF CURRENT INSTRUCTIONS OR REGULATIONS |                                                                                          |
| DATE 28 January 1969                                                                                                                                                                                     | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR (In proudanym) Francis J. COIGNE       |
| DATE 28 January 1969                                                                                                                                                                                     | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL ( pesudonya) Willard C. CURTIS |

SPECIAL NOTE

Fitness Reports must be prepared with due regard for security considerations. For example, in the case of administrative and support personnel and athers whose duties do not in themselves reveal sources of information and methods of operation, it is normally expected that a complete and realistic statement of specific duties may be reported in Section 8. However, the nature, source, purpose ce dispo sition of information or operations will not be included in the other hand, the position titles and description of specific duties of certain other employees may jeopardize security anc should not be fully reported on this form. In these cases, general statements of specific duties will be included in Section B'indicating the level of responsibility.

FORM 4-83 450 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

1. NAME

CAZAZZUS

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

Contract Employee

8. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER

RESERVE

TEMPORARY

CARLEN-PROVISIONAL

SPECIAL (Specify):

Contract employee

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

GENERAL

Sandra

2. DATE OF BIRTH

5 May 1923

7. OFF/DIV/AR OF ASSIGNMENT

DDP/WH/1

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

INITIAL

XX ANNUAL

SPECIAL (Specify):

12. REPORTING PERIOD

1 January 1969 thru 31 December 1968

3. SEX

F

8. CURRENT STATION

Mexico City

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

SECTION B

W- Weak

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate

Performance meats all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P- Proficient

Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S- Strong

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O- Outstanding

Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most Important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee porforms EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY offectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory rasponsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to superviso (Indicate number of omployees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. I.

Selecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English into workable format for Station analysis and filing.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Handling administrative matters for her husband.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativanass, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overali performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER

S

FORM 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

## NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This employee continues to assist and compliment her husband, a Staff Agent, in an unusually efficient team. She pre-edits transcribed materials and puts usable material into a form ready for filing, thus saving analytical and clerical time in the Station. Her knowledge of Russian and Spanish, analytical ability, overall efficiency and interest in her work all contribute to a fine performance.

SECTION D

CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

| DATE            | SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE                                      |
| --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- |
| 28 January 1969 | Sandra B. CAPACEUS (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal) |

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

| MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION |     |
| --------------------------------------------- | --- |

| DATE            | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                    |
| --------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| 28 January 1969 | BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL        | (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal) Paul L. Dillon |

COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The reviewing officer concurs with this report. Subject and her husband continue to form an efficient and valuable team.

| DATE            | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                       |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| 28 January 1969 | Chief of Station                     | (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal.) Winston H. Scott |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

DiurATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDCE INDEXING

MICROFILM

TO Chief, WOMOLD

INFO. Chief, WH Division

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT ADMINISTRATIVE/TRAINING
Language Training

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION REQUIRED: Information Only

As of 1 March 1968 the below listed personnel were receiving voluntary Spanish language training paid for by the organization or LNGOLD:

Sandra B. CAZAZZUS

Francis J. COIGNE

Humphrey K. FEADSHIP

Douglas J. FEINGLASS

Henry N. LANGDON

Keith R. LEVENDERIS

Wanda G. PANKPINΤΟ

Clarice F. PARDECK

Cora B. RAUSKIND

Joseph F. TRECANTI

and the wives of Walter W. CORNBURY and Gerald D. FAHLANGER.

for/Villard C. CURTIS

DISTRIBUTION:
2 - Chief, WOMOLD
2 - Chief, WH Division

CROSS REFERENCE TO DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE

HMMT-8919 9 April 1968

CLASSIFICATION HOS FILE NUMBER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# ELECTION, DECLINATION, OR WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES GROUP LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM

TO COMPLETE THIS FORM-

1 FOLLOW THESE GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:.
*   Read the back of the "Duplicate" carefully before you fill in the form.
*   Fill in BOTH COPIES of the form. Type or use ink.
*   Do not.detach any part.

2 FILL IN THE IDENTIFYING INFORMATION BELOW (please print or type):

NAME (last) (first) (middle) DATE OF BIRTH (month, day, year) SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER.

CAZAZZUS Sandra B 1923

EMPLOYING DEPARTMENT OR AGENCY LOCATION (City, State, ZIP Code)

3 MARK AN "X" IN ONE OF THE BOXES BELOW (do NOT mark more than one):

Mark here if you WANT BOTH optional and regular insurance

(A) ELECTION OF OPTIONAL (IN ADDITION TO REGULAR) INSURANCE

I elect the $10,000 additional optional insurance and authorize the required deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to pay the full cost of the optional insurance. This optional insurance is in addition to my regular insurance.

Mark here if you DO NOT WANT OPTIONAL but do want regular insurance

(B) DECLINATION OF OPTIONAL (BUT NOT REGULAR) INSURANCE

I decline the $10,000 additional optional insurance. I understand that I cannot elect op tional insurance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this declination and unless at the time I apply for it I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of insurability. I understand also that my regular insurance is not affected by this declina- tion of additional optional insurance.

Mark here if you WANT NEITHER regular nor optional insurance

(C) WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE

I desire not to be insured and I walve coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program. I understand that I cannot cancel this waiver and obtain regular in. surance until at least 1 year after the effective date of this waiver and unless ot the time I apply for insurance I am under age 50 and present satisfactory medical evidence of in- surability. I understand also that I cannot now or later have the $10,000 additional optional insurance unless I have the regular insurance.

4 SIGN AND DATE. IF YOU MARKED BOX "A" OR "C".
COMPLETE THE "STATISTICAL STUB." THEN RETURN THE ENTIRE FORM TO YOUR EMPLOYING OFFICE.

SIGNATURE (do not print)

Sandra B. Cazazzus

DATE

14 February 1968

DUPLICATE COPY-For Agency Use 3

FOR EMPLOYING OFFICE USE ONLY
(official receiving date stamp)

![official receiving date stamp]

ELECTION, DECLINATION, OR WAIVER OF LIFE INSURANCE COVERAGE
Statistical Stub (SF 176-T)

To be completed only by employees who checked either box "A" or box "C" on the election form.
The purpose of this stub is to furnish statistics on the initial registration under the liberalized life insurance program.

|                                                                                                                |          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| 1. Which box did you check?                                                                                    | Box A 1  |
|                                                                                                                | Box C 2  |
| 2. Did you have regular insurance under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Program on January 1, 1968? | Yes 1    |
|                                                                                                                | No 2     |
| 3.. Your sex?                                                                                                  | Male 1   |
|                                                                                                                | Female 2 |
| 4. Are you now married?                                                                                        | Yes 1    |
| horn?                                                                                                          | No 2     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO.

FROM

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT

Sandra B. CAZZAZUS

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQD

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Please forward a completed form 89 on

Sandra B. CAZZAZUS for review by the Medical

Staff.

Hugh B. WESTBY

Distribution:

2-COS, Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

RMMS-5798

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

OFFICE

WH/Personnel/PPMacDougall/lvr #6 Feb.68

ORIGINATING

TYPIST

EXT.

681

1 - WH/Pers

1 - WH/Reg

1 - WH/1

COORENNATING

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/Pers

C/WH/1

OFFICE SYMBOL

C/WH/SS

DATE

DATE

OFFICER'S NAME

RELEASING

OFFICER'S SIGNATURE

George R. Thompson


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER

SECTION A

1. NAME

(Last) CAZAZZUS

(First) Sandra

(Middle) B.

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX
   5 May 1923 F

4. GRADE 5. SO.

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE
   Contract Employee

7. OFF/OIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
   DDP/WH/1
   Mexico City

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER
RESERVE
TEMPORARY
10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT'
INITIAL
REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR
REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

X
CAREER PROVISIONAL (50e Instructions Section C)
SPECIAL (Specify): Contract employee

XX ANNUAL
SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P..

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From- to)
    1 January 1968 thru 31 December 1968

SECTION B
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W- Weak
Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A- Adequate
Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P-Proficient
Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S- Streng
Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

0-Outstanding
Performance is so axceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which bast describos the mannor-in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
Selecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English into workable format for Station analysis and filing.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
Handling administrative matters for her husband.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. S

RATING
LETTER

OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee wirich influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accwately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER

S

FORM 45
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

4-55

SECRET

GROUP
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

## SECTION C

NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence if required for specific duties. Section B provides best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This employee continues to assist and compliment her husband, a Staff Agent, in an unusually efficient team. She pre-edits transcribed materials and puts usable material into a form ready for filing, thus saving analytical and clerical time in the Station. Her knowledge of Russian and Spanish, analytical ability, overall efficiency and interest in her work all contribute to a fine performance.

## SECTION D

|                                                                                                                          | CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS                                      |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.                                                                                                                       | BY EMPLOYEE                                                     |
| DATE                                                                                                                     | I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT  |
| 28 January 1969                                                                                                          | SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE                                           |
|                                                                                                                          | Sandra B. CAZAZZUS (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal)      |
| 2.                                                                                                                       | BY SUPERVISOR                                                   |
| MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION                                                                            | IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION |
| DATE                                                                                                                     | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR                                    |
| 28 January 1969                                                                                                          | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                             |
|                                                                                                                          | (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal)                         |
|                                                                                                                          | Paul L. Dillon                                                  |
| 3.                                                                                                                       | BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL                                           |
| COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL                                                                                           |                                                                 |
| The reviewing officer concurs with this report. Subject and her husband continue to form an efficient and valuable team. |                                                                 |
| DATE                                                                                                                     | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL                            |
| 28 January 1969                                                                                                          | Chief of Station                                                |
|                                                                                                                          | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE                             |
|                                                                                                                          | (signed in pseudo on Field Transmittal.)                        |
|                                                                                                                          | Winston M. Scott                                                |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The following items of the Fitness Report will NOT be completed by field personnel preparing the report for transmitted to Headquarters:

SECTION A, items 1, 6, and 7

SECTION D, items 1, 2 and 3 (Only in respect to "Typed or Printed Name and Signature")

|                                                                                                                   |                                                                          |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN                                                                                     | DATE                                                                     |
| THIS FITNESS REPORT                                                                                               | 28. January 1969                                                         |
|                                                                                                                   | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE (In pseudonym)           |
|                                                                                                                   | Sandra B. CAZAZZUS                                                       |
| 2. I CERTIFY THAT, EXCEPT FOR ITEMS OMITTED UNDER THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS, ALL ITEMS APPEARING ON THE ATTACHED PIT |                                                                          |
| NESS REPORT HAVE BEEN COMPLETED UNDER PROVISIONS OF CURRENT INSTRUCTIONS OR REGULATIONS                           |                                                                          |
| DATE                                                                                                              | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR (In pseudonym)         |
| 28 January 1969                                                                                                   | Francis J. COIGNE                                                        |
| DATE                                                                                                              | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL (In pseudonym) |
| 28 January 1969                                                                                                   | Willard C. CURTIS                                                        |

SPECIAL NOTE

Fitness Reports must be prepared with due regard for security considerations. For example, in the case of administrative and support personnel and others whose duties do not in themselves reveal sources of information and methods of operation, it is normally expected that a complete and realistic statement of specific duties may be reported in Section B. However, the nature, source, purpose or disposition of information or operations will not be included. On the other hand, the position titles and description of specific duties of certain other employees may jeopardize security and should not be fully reported on this form. In these cases, general statements of specific duties will be included in Section B indicating the level of responsibility.

FORM
4-62
450 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

|                     |                      |
| ------------------- | -------------------- |
|                     | PROCESSING ACTION    |
| MARKED FOR INDEXING |                      |
|                     | NO INDEXING REQUIRED |
|                     | ONLY QUALIFIED DISK  |
|                     | CAN JUDGE INDEXING   |
|                     | MICROFILM            |

DISPATCI.

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

TO

Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO.

FROM

Chief, MOGAME

SUBJECT

AIM/JECENT - FEINGLASS/CAZAZZUS - Tax Administration

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES

REF: HBST-8732, 15 December 1967

1. Forwarded under separate cover is the name and address of the notional organization for FEINGLASS to use on his tax return. Also forwarded under separate cover is a brief outline of the nature of the notional.

2. As previously discussed in a Headquarters tax briefing, this notional would not issue any tax documentation and was not to be used for any purpose other than their tax return. This return was to be kept in a safe place, since the return would indicate a different cover than what they are using in Mexico.

3. In the event FEINGLASS ever indicates that the use of the notional is necessary for purposes other than the tax return, this requirement should be cleared by Headquarters prior to actual use.

VICTOR D. UNITSKY

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS (w/SCA)
1 - WI/Contracts (vo/att)

Attachment (USC)

![signature] (4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The following items of the Fitness Report will NOT be completed by field personnel preparing the report for transmitted to Headquarters:

SECTION A, Items i, & and 7

SECTION O, items 1, 2 and 3 (only in respect to "Typed of Printed Name and Signature")

1. I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN
   THIS FITNESS REPORT

16 FEB 28

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE
(In pseudonym)

Sandra B. Cazazzgus

2. I CERTIFY THAT, EXCEPT FOR ITEMS OMITTED UNDER THE ABOVE INSTRUCTIONS, ALL ITEMS APPEARING ON THE ATTACHED FIT-
   NESS REPORT HAVE BEEN COMPLETED UNDER PROVISIONS OF CURRENT INSTRUCTIONS OR REGULATIONS

DATE

16 Feb-1963

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR (In pseudonym)

Francis J. COIGNE

DATE

16 Feb 1968

TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL (In pseudonym)

Willard C. CURTIS

SPECIAL NOTE

Fitness Reports must be prepared with due regard for security considerations. For example, in the case of administrative and support personnel and others whose duties do not in themselves reveal sources of information and methods of operation, it is normally expected that a complete and realistic statement of specific duties may be reported in Section B. However, the nature, source, purpose or disposition of information or operations will not be included. On the other hand, the position titles and description of specific duties of certain other employees may jeopardize security and should not be fully reported on this form. In these cases, general statements of specific duties will be included in Section 8 indicating the level of responsibility.

FORM
4-68
45a OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET
(When Filled In)

FITNESS REPORT

SECTION A

GENERAL

1. NAME

(Last)

(First)

(Middle)

2. DATE OF BIRTH

3. SEX

4. GRADE

5.30

CAZAZZAS

Sandra

N.

5 May 23

F

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT

8. CURRENT STATION

Contract Employee

IDP/WH

Mexico City

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

CAREER

RESERVE

TEMPORARY

INITIAL

REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Instructions - Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

XX SPECIAL (Specify): Contract Employee

XX ANNUAL

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN Q.P.

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From - To):

1 January 1967 - 31 December 1967

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

W - Weak

Performance ranges from wholly inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate

Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient

Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong

Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding

Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1

Selecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English into workable format for Station analysis and filing.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2

Handling administrative matters for her husband.

RATING
LETTER

S

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5

RATING
LETTER

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6

RATING
LETTER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

## SECTION C
NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B to provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties and cost consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

Subject continues to complement her husband as a part of an efficient team. Her expeditious processing of transcript materials (so that they come to the Station ready for filing) saves the Station a great deal of work and time. Her language and analytical abilities are utilized to pre-edit material and cut out the superfluous. She continues to show interest in her work at which she is very efficient.

## SECTION D

1. 
| DATE      | CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS BY EMPLOYEE                         |
| --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 16 Feb 63 | I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT |
|           | /s/ Sendra B. CAZAZZUS                                         |

2. 
| MONTHS EMPLOYEE HAS BEEN UNDER MY SUPERVISION | BY SUPERVISOR                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 29                                            | IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION |

| DATE      | OFFICIAL TITLE OF SUPERVISOR | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE |
| --------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 16 Feb 63 |                              | /s/ Francis J. COIGNE               |


3. COMMENTS OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL

The Reviewing Officer concurs in this Report. This employee and her husband form an efficient and valuable team.

| DATE        | OFFICIAL TITLE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE |
| ----------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------- |
| 16 Feb 1968 | Chief of Station                     | /s/ Willard C. CURTIS               |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

If typewriter is not available, bear down with ballpoint pen to make legible copies.

# HEALTH BENEFITS REGISTRATION FORM
FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROG

New Carrier's Control No.
11252435

Old Carrier's Control Na.

# PART A

1. NAME

(LAST) Tarasoff,

(FIRST) Anna

(MIDDLE IN TIAL) A.

2. DATE OF BIRTH

(MONTH) (DAY) (YEAR)

3. ARE YOU NOW MARRIED?

YES

NO

ALL WHO REGISTER MUST FILL IN THIS PART.

4. YOUR MAILING ADDRESS

(NUMBER AND STREET) (CITY) (STATE) (ZIP CODE) 5. SEX

MALE

FEMALE

IMPORTANT

IT IS ILLEGAL FOR AN EMPLOYEE OR A MEMBER OF HIS FAMILY TO BE COVERED UNDER MORE THAN ONE ENROLLMENT. IF YOU ARE ALREADY COVERED THROUGH THE ENROLLMENT OF ANOTHER FEDERAL OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA EMPLOYEE OR ANNUITANT YOUR MUST REGISTER NOT TO ENROLL OF THE OTHER ENROLLMENT MUST BE CANCELLED OR CHANGED TO SO STATE. SIMILARLY, IF A FAMILY MEMBER LISTED BY YOU IN PART B IS COVERED THROUGH HIS (OR HER) OWN ENROLLMENT, YOU CANNOT ELECT A FAMILY ENROLLMENT UNLESS THE FAMILY MEMBER CANCELS HIS (OR HER) ENROLLMENT.

# PART B

fill out a health benefits plan on shown below. I authorize deductions from my salary, compensation, or annuity to cover my share of the cost of the plan you select).

(Keep this information requested below from back page of brochure of the plan you select)

FILL IN THIS PART IF YOU WISH TO ENROLL OR CHANGE YOUR ENROLLMENT IN A HEALTH BENEFITS PLAN.

OPTION (HIGH OR LOW)

ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER

1. NAME OF PLAN

2. In space below list all eligible family members without exception. List your wife or husband first, then your unmarried children under age 22, including (a) legally adopted children and (b) stepchildren, foster children, and illegitimate children who live with you in a regular parent-child relationship; include also any unmarried child over 22 who became disabled before age 22 and who is incapable of self-support. DO NOT LIST PARENTS OR OTHERS WHO ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FAMILY MEMBERS. THEY WILL NOT RECEIVE BENEFITS, EVEN IF THEY ARE DEPENDENT ON YOU AND ARE LISTED.

NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS
DATE OF BIRTH
(Month, Day, Year)
NAMES OF FAMILY MEMBERS
DATE OF BIRTH
(Month, Day, Year)

Husband

# PART C

PLACE AN "X" IN ITEM 1 OR 2, WHICHEVER APPLIES

FILL IN THIS PART IF YOU WISH NOT TO ENROLL OR IF YOU WISH TO CANCEL YOUR ENROLLMENT.

1. I ELECT NOT TO ENROLL IN A PLAN UNDER THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES HEALTH BENEFITS PROGRAM

Covered on hush's policy

2. I ELECT TO CANCEL MY PRESENT ENROLLMENT UNDER THE CODE NUMBER SHOWN BELOW

Present Enrollment Code Number

# PART D

ANSWER ITEMS 1, 2, AND 3 TO SHOW ENROLLMENT CODE BEING CHANGED AND ELIGIBILITY FOR CHANGE.

FILL IN THIS PART AS WELL AS PART B, TO CHANGE YOUR ENROLLMENT.

1. ENROLLMENT CODE NUMBER OF PRESENT PLAN

2. NUMBER OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE. (See table on back of duplicate for proper number.)

3. DATE OF EVENT WHICH PERMITS CHANGE.

MONTH DAY YEAR

# PART E

Norma Sue Carpenter for

ALL WHO REGISTER MUST FILL IN THIS PART.

Anna A. Tarasoff

(YOUR SIGNATURE - DO NOT PRINT)

12-28-67

(DATE)

1 NAME AND ADDRESS (INCLUDING ZIP CODE) OF EMPLOYING OFFICE

# PART F

TO BE COMPLETED BY AGENCY.

WARNING. - Any Intentional false statement In this application or willful misrepresentation relative thereto is a violation of the law punishable by a fine of not more than $10,000 or Imprisonment of not more than 5 years, or both. (18 U.S.C. 1001.)

2. DATE RECEIVED IN EMPLOYING OFFICE

3. EFFECTIVE DATE OF ELECTION

12-28-67

12-31-67

4. PAYROLL OFFICE NO.

5. SF 2811 REPORT NO.

# REMARKS

FOR USE ONLY BY AGENCY.

Contract Emp.

9-8-67

WT!

5132830

Triplicate-For Official Personnel Folder


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

DATE22 November 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief. Insurance Branch/BSD/OP
Benefits and Services Division

This is to advise you that _Anna A. Tarasoff_ has been employed under an Agency personal services contract effective _8 September 1967_. The Contract authorizes participation in Civil Service Retirement, FEGLI and Federal Health Insurance.

Subject's contract is the administrative responsibility of _DDP/WH_

Dow H. Luetscher
Chief
Contract Personnel Division

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, Hastern Hemisphere Division

Sandra B. CAZAZYUS, Contract

Action Required: As Noted

BeforenCOS :
A. BD-6144
B. MEXICO CITY 2718

1. In view of Reference B and inasmuch as Sandra B. CAZAZZUS vas in the Headquarters area, a new coutract was prepared granting her the bonefits of Reference A. The contract was signed by ΟΑΣΑΤΣ08 and has been forwarded for related procussing.

2. Attached is a copy of the contract effective 8 September 1967 for CAZAZZUS. She elected FEGLI but declined the health insurance as she is included under her husband's policy. CA2A2203 was thoroughly briefed on the provisions of the contract as voll as the provisions of her previous contract.

STATION ACTION:

Aa CAZAZZUS is payrolled by the station, related deductions for the new benefits (Civil Service Retirement and FEGLI) are to be made by the Station. Social Security doductions will, of course, cease as there is no cover requirement for mandatory Social Security coverage.

3. During the briefing, CATAZZ03 inquired about the use of sick leave. She was informed sick leave can be used in the samo manner and per the same regulations as when she was formerly a

(continuod)

Attachment: As stated

Distribution: 3-COS, Mexico City, w/att, b/

HMMS - 5679

SECRET

WH/Contracts/WSRenehan: gms (17 Nov 67) 4460

1-WII/Contracts w/att
1-WH/1 w/att
1-WH/Reg wo/att

C/WH/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET
HMS - 5679

staffer. The point involved was whether she had been granted sick leave during her "maternity leave" in 1965. She was advised that possibly she did receive payment covering the period which her accrued sick leave represented; and, possibly at that time she had only a minimal balance accrued.

STATION ACTION:

It is suggested the Station review her leave/pay account for the above cited period and advise her of the details involved.

Should the records reflect she had a balance but was not provided the leave, a pay adjustment may be made up to the balance at that time with an appropriate reduction of her current sick leave balance. NOTE: She was advised she could not have sick leave accrued since that time applied retroactively.

It is further suggested the Station Admin or Finance Officer conduct the briefing due to the necessity for the briefer to have a rather technical knowledge of leave.

Hugh E. WESTBY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Miss Sandra B. Cazazzus

Dear Miss Cazazzus:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer of this organization, hereby contracts with you, as a contract employee under the terms and conditions set forth below:

1. New Benefits. By virtue of your employment relationship under this agreement you are:

(a) Covered under the Civil Service Retirement Act in conformance with rules and regulations applicable to appointed employees of this organization. From the basic compensation paid you hereunder there shall be deducted the appropriate rate percentage (presently 6-1/2%) for deposit and eventual crediting to the Civil Service Retirement Fund. Social Security deductions required by virtue of your cover activities will not be reimbursed you by this organization.

(b) Covered under the Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Act in conformance with rules and regulations applicable to appointed employees of this organization unless you execute a written waiver of such coverage. The Government is presently authorized to bear a portion of the premium cost, you will bear the remainder.

(c) Eligible for coverage under the Federal Employees Health Benefits Act in conformance with rules and regulations applicable to appointed employees of this organization. The Government is presently authorized to bear a portion of the premium cost, you will bear the remainder. Because of your eligibility under this Act. (whether or not you choose to enroll), your coverage under the contract employees health program shall cease thirty-one (31) days after the effective date of this agreement.

2. Your previous contract with the United States Government, effective 15 July 1964, is herein terminated by mutual consent of the parties thereto.

3. All provisions of said previous contract not in conflict with this agreement are incorporated by reference into and made a part of this agreement.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

4. This agreement is effective as of September 1st and shall continue thereafter for two (2) years unless sooner terminated as set forth in your previous contract. If this agreement becomes offective during an overseas assignment nothing contained herein shall be construed as extending that assignment beyond its originally contemplated duration or invalidating your entitlement to return travel expenses (if applicable) upon completion of that assignment.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

BY
Contracting Officer

ACCEPTED:

Sandra B. Cazazzus

WITNESS:

APPROVED:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, MEXIME

ADD/JBICHT - FEDELAR/CARANZIS - Tax Handling

The WITTER Tax Committee has approved a flat rate assessment of FEDEILA/CARAZZI's Federal tax obligation, beginning with tax year 1967. Attached is the letter of tax instruction which FELAR should review. The original must be signed and returned to Headquarters.

VICTOR D. URSKY

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS (w/att)
1 - WH/Conrients (w/att)


DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

ESS-5711

6 December 1967

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

Letter of Tax Instruction for FHINGLASS/CAZAZZUS

1. Based on discussions held with tax representatives of the Organization, an assessment of your Organizational income has been approved to satisfy your Federal tax obligation.

2. The assessment computation is based on an estimate of your taxable compensation from the Organization and your estimate of other income from outside sources. The assessment computation results in a percentage of your salary being withheld each pay period to completely satisfy your tax obligation. For tax year 1967 thirteen and nine-tenths (13.9) per cent will be withheld, effective 28 August 1967. The computation is attached.

3. In computing your assessment rate, you have been granted a basic tax credit of $250.00. This credit is not guaranteed, but is granted to give reasonable assurance that you will not pay a higher tax than you would under ordinary reporting procedures.

4. Future changes in your income or tax status may justify a revision of the assessment rate. In this event this agreement would be amended accordingly.

5. It is important that you file a tax return directly with Internal Revenue that is consistent with your cover status. Care and accuracy in preparing this return are necessary. Any tax liability resulting from the tax computation on this return will be satisfied by your own funds. A certified true copy of this tax return must be forwarded to us upon your submission of the original to Internal Revenue. Provided below are specific criteria to assist you in the preparation of the tax return:

A. You will be provided with the name of a notional organization to be used on your 1967 tax return. The only income you will report will be income shown on your (FEINGLASS) earning statement. You will not report your wife's income or tax withholding nor will you report any withholding that was made from your salary.

B. The income that is shown (using the notional as a source) will be reported on the Fora 2555 (Statement to Support Exemption of Income Earned Abroad) and will be exempted from tax, due to your residence overseas. You will base your exemption on physical presence abroad. For tax year 1967 you will report your income as being earned prior to bom leave and therefore fully excludable because the qualifying period, which ended on the date you left Hexico for home leave, included an eighteen-month period abroad..

C. Other income must also be reported on this tax return, including interest from the Credit Union, which will be indicated without identifying the Credit Union by name.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

6. You may request an advance of funds for payment of foreign
   income or related (income) taxes assessed against income received from
   or guaranteed by the Organization. Accounting for these funds will be
   made in the form of copies of the receipted tax bills (or other accept-
   able tax documents) which will be forwarded to the home office for appro-
   val and write-off of expense.

7. Please acknowledged the original of this letter and return to
   Headquarters, attention: Covert Tax Committee.

8. We appreciate your cooperation in arranging these details.

VICTOR D. UNITSKY
Secretary
Covert Tax Committee

Acknowledged:

Date


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SENDER WILL CHE CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTON
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE  | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ----- | -------- |
| 1   | Prachan          |       |          |
| 2   |                  |       |          |
| 3   |                  | 10/17 |          |
| 4   |                  | 2:35  |          |
| 5   |                  |       |          |
| 6   |                  |       |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

Mrs. Kaufman reviewed and declined to coordinate, feeling that this was no longer appropriate for this message.

![signature]

FOLD HERE TO FETURN TO SENDER
FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.

![signature] Rohe

| UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET |
| ------------ | ------------ | ------ |

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions (40)
1-67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# 14-00000

FORM 7-66 12 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

1. MESSARE CONSIDERED ROUTINE UNLESS A NICH PRECEDENCE IS INDICATED IN THE ADDRESS LINE.
2. NAL AND YELLOW COPY TO CABLE SECRETABIAT STM SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS.
3. DO NOT RASTOUT AND CONTINUE TYPING. DO NOT EXCEED TPEYSOLSTEN CHARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SP .. END TEXT LINES WITHIN THE RIGHT MARGIM GUIDE POPRIATE FOR YOUR TYPEWRITER

ORG: WSRenehan
UNIT: WH/Contracts
EXT: 4460
DATE: 12 September 1967

MESSAGE FORS

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN DY

1 6
2 7
3 8
4 9
5 10

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

INDEX DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

INFO:
RID COPY FILE VI

(classification) (date and time fried) (elite) (pica)
(retorence number)

SECRET CITE DIRECTOR

TO MEXICO CITY

REF: DIRECTOR 34619

IN DISCUSSING REF WITH FEINGLASS PLEASE EXPRESS OUR SYMPATHY DEATH OF CAZAZZUS MOTHER.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment: Ref advised CAZAZZUS can take physical on return Mexico.

C/WH/1

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

WILLIAM S. RENEHAN
C/WH/CONTRACTS

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from outomatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE. NO.
FILE RID RET...TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE E
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 8
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM
ACTION WH8
INFO FILE, UR, 568, CCS3, CSPS, OP2, D/ms2

ADVANCE COPY
RID COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED

SECRET 072355Z CITE MEXICO CITY 2718

DIRECTOR

REDCOAT

1. SANDRA B. CAZAZZUS DEPARTING SEP WITH MINOR
   SON FOR MOTHER'S FUNERAL IN CLEVELAND, OHIO. SHE UNABLE
   COMPLETE PHYSICAL HERE, PLANS DO SO AT HQS.

2. ALSO INCOMPLETE IS CONTRACT REVIEW FOR NEW
   BENEFITS PER BOOK DISPATCH 6144. STATION SUGGESTS THIS
   BE ACCOMPLISHED AT HQS DURING FEINGLASS CONSULTATION

31 OCT.

SECRET SECRET

BI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

PPMacDougall/lvr
WH/Personnel
6815
18 August 1967

SECRET

MEXICO CITY 10 22 00'Z
CITE DIRECTOR 29114

RYBAT

REF: A. MEXICO CITY 2499 (IN 34008)
B. HMMS-5433

1. TDY HQS INCLUDED IN FEINGLASS TRAVEL ORDER. SHOULD PLAN ARRIVE HQS 31 OCTOBER 1967.

2. FAMILY SHOULD TAKE PHYSICALS IN FIELD AND FORWARD RESULTS. FEINGLASS WILL TAKE PHYSICAL WHILE HQS.

3. REF B POUCHED 16 AUGUST ANNOUNCES ARRIVAL TDY REPLACEMENT 18 SEPTEMBER 1967.

END OF MESSAGE

WH Comment: Ref A requested home leave beginning 12 Sept. with TDY Hqs. to discuss 1968 retirement.

Ref B gave info on TDY replacement for FEINGLASS.

JACOB D. ESTERLINE
AC/WHD

EDWARD K. O'MALLEY
AC/WH/PERS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIO.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 18

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

7
ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

D/AAS 2 RID COPY SLOTTED TUBED

INFO FILE KR with 8 ccs3 ps OP2

SECRE I 261615Z CITE MEXICO 1893

DIRECTOR

HBDRAW 26 Jun 67 IN 98383

REF: MEXICO CITY 1888 (11) 97294)

CAZAZZUS ILLNESS DIAGNOSED AS FLOATING KIDNEY.

RELEASED FROM HOSPITAL 24 JUNE 1967. NO OPERATION

PLANNED.

SECRET

BT

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

INDEX ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 11

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDO RET. TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED

1

5

2

6

3

7

4

8

28

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

UNIT

TIME

BY

D/MS2 ☐ RID COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUBED

INFO

FILE UR, WH4, CCS3, OP2

SECRET 240020Z CITE MEXICO CITY 1888. 24 Jun 67 IN 97294

DIRECTOR

HBDRAW

SANDRA B. CAZAZZUS ADMITTED TO AMERICAN BRITISH

COWDRAY HOSPITAL 22 JUNE 1967 WITH SEVERE-ABDOMINAL

PAIN. PRELIMINARY DIAGNOSED AS KIDNEY DISORDER. WILL

ADVISE FURTHER.

SECRET SECRET.

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# SECRET

FITNESS REPORT

EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
132830

SECTION A

GENERAL

1. NAME

(Lost) (First) (Middle)

2. DATE OF BIRTH 3. SEX
   F
4. GRADE 5. SO

6. OFFICIAL POSITION TITLE

7. OFF/DIV/BR OF ASSIGNMENT 8. CURRENT STATION
   Mexico City

9. CHECK (X) TYPE OF APPOINTMENT

CAREER RESERVE TEMPORARY

CAREER-PROVISIONAL (See Instructions - Section C)

SPECIAL (Specify):

11. DATE REPORT DUE IN O.P.

10. CHECK (X) TYPE OF REPORT

XX. INITIAL REASSIGNMENT SUPERVISOR

ANNUAL REASSIGNMENT EMPLOYEE

XX. SPECIAL (Specify): Contract Employee

12. REPORTING PERIOD (From -to-)
    1 January 1966-31 December 1966

SECTION B

PERFORMANCE EVALUATION

d - Weak Performance ranges from wholly Inadequate to slightly less than satisfactory. A rating in this category requires positive remedial action. The nature of the action could range from counseling, to further training, to placing on probation, to reassignment or to separation. Describe action taken or proposed in Section C.

A - Adequate Performance meets all requirements. It is entirely satisfactory and is characterized neither by deficiency nor excellence.

P - Proficient Performance is more than satisfactory. Desired results are being produced in a proficient manner.

S - Strong Performance is characterized by exceptional proficiency.

O - Outstanding Performance is so exceptional in relation to requirements of the work and in comparison to the performance of others doing similar work as to warrant special recognition.

SPECIFIC DUTIES

List up to six of the most important specific duties performed during the rating period. Insert rating letter which best describes the manner in which employee performs EACH specific duty. Consider ONLY effectiveness in performance of that duty. All employees with supervisory responsibilities MUST be rated on their ability to supervise (Indicate number of employees supervised).

SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 1
RATING
LETTER
Selecting and processing transcripts in Spanish and English into a workable format for Station analysis and filing
S
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 2
RATING
LETTER
Handling administrative matters for her husband and herself.
S
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 3
RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 4
RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 5
RATING
LETTER
SPECIFIC DUTY NO. 6
RATING
LETTER
OVERALL PERFORMANCE IN CURRENT POSITION

Take into account everything about the employee which influences his effectiveness in his current position such as performance of specific duties, productivity, conduct on job, cooperativeness, pertinent personal traits or habits, and particular limitations or talents. Based on your knowledge of employee's overall performance during the rating period, place the letter in the rating box corresponding to the statement which most accurately reflects his level of performance.

RATING
LETTER
S
FORM 45 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# SECRET

## NARRATIVE COMMENTS

Indicate significant strengths or weaknesses demonstrated in current position keeping in proper perspective their relationship to overall performance. State suggestions made for improvement of work performance. Give recommendations for training. Comment on foreign language competence, if required for current position. Amplify or explain ratings given in Section B. Provide best basis for determining future personnel action. Manner of performance of managerial or supervisory duties including consciousness in the use of personnel, space, equipment and funds, must be commented on, if applicable. If extra space is needed to complete Section C, attach a separate sheet of paper.

This is the first time a fitness report has been prepared on CAZAZZUS herself, although previous fitness reports on her husband, Douglas J. FEINGLASS, have mentioned her valuable contribution. She and FEINGLASS continue to work as an excellent team. CAZAZZUS works conscientiously and quickly and saves the Station a great deal of time in the routine processing of paper and tapes. Her interest in the subject matter and her analytical ability enable her to weed out superfluous material and assist FEINGLASS in his translations and analyses.

## CERTIFICATION AND COMMENTS

BY EMPLOYEE

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN SECTIONS A, B, AND C OF THIS REPORT

BY SUPERVISOR

IF THIS REPORT HAS NOT BEEN SHOWN TO EMPLOYEE, GIVE EXPLANATION

## BY REVIEWING OFFICIAL

I concur with the rating officer's evaluation of CAZAZZUS. She compliments her husband perfectly

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

FIELD TRANSMITTAL - FITNESS REPORT

INSTRUCTIONS

The following items of the Fitness Report will NOT be completed by field personnel preparing the report for transmitted to Headquarters:
SECTION A, items 1, 6, and 7
SECTION D, Items 1, 2, and 3 (Only in respect to "Typed or Printed Name and Signature")

| 1. I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE SEEN THIS FITNESS REPORT | DATE   9 Feb 67 | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF EMPLOYEE (in pseudonym) Sandra B. CAZAZZUS |
| ------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

2. I CENTIFY THAT, EXCEPT FOR ITEMS OMITTED UNDER THE ASOVI INSTRUCTIONS, ALL ITEMS APPEARING ON THE ATTACHED FITNESS REPOI HAVE BEEN COMPLETED UNDER PROVISIONS OF CURRENT INSTRUCTIONS OR REGULATIONS

| DATE   7 Feb 67     | TYPED OR PRINTCO NAME AND SIGNATURE OF SUPERVISOR (In pseudonym) Jonathan L. WEENING       |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| DATE  28 Feb 67     | TYPED OR PRINTED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL (In pseudonym) Francis J. COIGNE |
| :------------------ | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------        |

SPECIAL NOTE

Fitness Reports must be prepared with due regard for security considerations. For example, in the case of administrative and support personnel and others whose duties do not in themselves reveal sources of information and methods of operation, it is normally expected that a complete and realistic statement of specific auties may be reported in Section 8. However, the nature, source, purpose or disposition of information or operations will not be included. On the other hand, the position titles and description of specific duties of certain other employees may jenpardize security and should not be fully reported on this form. In these cases, general statements of specific duties will be included in Section B indicating the level of responsibility.

FORM 450 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
4-62

SECRET

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

Miss Anna A. Tarasoft_

Dear Mice Tarasell

Reference is made to your current contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Cicer.

Effective 22 August 1966. scid contract is amended by delettug alt reterence to income taxes therefrom:, and by adding thereto the following paragraph:

" 3 As cu emmoloyee of the Government you must satisfy your federal tax hability on taxabis income partita you tinder para caph one. (1) above. Such racome may be paid you by or ti zou a cover facility Because of cover, operational and security considerations the Tax Committee of this organization is authorized to make certain determinations and establish procedures which will result in the full sausfaction of your Federal income tax habibty on said income. Las specifically understood and agreed that such determinations and procedures, whether oval of written, cousture an integral part of this contract and are legally incorporated herein by reference

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and cusct.

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Ground section


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

SECRET

DATE:

CTC No. 3

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Finance

ATTENTION: Chief, Compensation and Tax Division

VIA: Chief, Contract Personnel Division

SUBJECT: Tax Assessment for

1. A flat rate covert tax assessment of this individual's gross, taxable Agency entitlements has been approved by the Covert Tax Committee as indicated below. An acknowledged letter of tax instruction is will be forwarded.

Tax Assessment Rate Effective Date

2. Other payroll factors pertinent to this Covert Tax Committee tax assessment action are as follows:

![signature]Approval Chief, CPD

![signature]Secretary, Covert Tax Committee

FORM 2643
5-66

SECRET (1-4-21)

3- CPD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# SECRET

Anna A. Foracoff

4 June 1966

Dear Sirs

Reference is made to your contract with the United States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer, effective 15 July 1966, as amended, which expires 14 July 1966.

Effective 15 July 1966, said contract, as amended, is extended for a period of two (2) years.

All other terms and conditions of said contract remain in full force and effect.

THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

![signature]

ACCEPTED:

![signature]

WITNESS: ![signature]

APPROVED:

![signature]

WE CONTRACT AUDITING OFFICER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECHET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO Office of Finance

INFO Chief, WH Division

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT Admin/Finance-Salary Increase-Sandra B. C ZAZZUS, Employee Number 132830

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
ACTION REQUIRED: Information only.

REFERENCE: HPAS-4512, dated 6 January 1966

Furnished herewith is acopy of acontract amendment for Sandra b. CAZAZZUS covering the legislative salary increase as of 10 October 1965.

The amendment was not prepared in time for CAZAZZUS to sign it before going on home leave and consequently had to await her return.

WILLARD C. CURTIS

Attachment:
As Stated Above

Distribution:
2 - Office of Finance, w/att
1 - Chief, WHD

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HQHT-6164

DATE
17 January-1966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# SECRET

Reference is made to your present contract with the thited States Government as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Effective 10 October 1965, said contract is amended by includi therein provision for compensation increase of the Federal Empic. et of 1965, in conformance with policies and procedures of the Canization. Said contract is amended also to include the sentence in paragraph one, entitled "Compensation":

"Compensation will be increased based on legislative, salary pay increases"

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in fui. force and effect.

THE UNITED STATES GOVERNME..

By: Milland ((urls

ACCEPTED:

WITNESS:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

(Chief of Station, Mexico City

Office of Finance

Salary Increase: *Pedro T. GOMEZ*, Employee Number 13430

The Office of Finance has not received a contract amendment for the 10 October 1965 salary increase which the Station has paid subject as reflected on Station 7/489-66. Therefore, in the absence of a contract amendment, it would appear that *GOMEZ* is being overpaid. Please advise.

SHIRLEY K. YEPAN

Distribution:
3 - C/Mexico City

HDGC - 4513 6 January 1966

SECRET

C&TD/APS/C/F.Landry/rkm

2 - WH Division
3 - C&TD/APR/CEAS
1 - RI/DP
1 - CF/Registry
1 - CPD

WH/BP

WH/SS

2294


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET OS1945Z

DIR CITE MEXI 5550

REF: DIR 50414

1. 1954 COVERT TAX RETURNS FOR BENADUM, LIMOTOR 19 (SASSARA C. HUFIG), PINE INCH, SANDAMANIE BEING SENT BY HMNT 6018 IN DEC POUCH. NOT POUCHED EARLIER AS OVERLOOKED IN STATION ADMIN FILES.

2. RETURN FOR CAZAZZUS SENT HMNT 5399 APR 23 (JOINT WITH S.A.DOUGLAS J. FEINCLASS). RETURN FOR LIFUED 39, NOW RITA N. BLAZIK, SENT HNET 5928, 5 OCT 65.

3. LIHUFF I SUBMITTED RETURN THROUGH OVERT CHANNELS: SIGNED COPY BEING POUCHED HQS.

4. WILL REPORT ON TECHSOR" SEPARATELY.

SECRET

CFN 5550 62414 1964 BENADUM LIMOTOR 19 BARBARA C HUFIS FEINCLASS SANDAMANIE HMMT 6218 10 NOT POUCHED CAZAZZUS HMNT 5399 APR 23 DOUGLAS J FEINCLASS LIFUED 30 RITA N BLAZIK HMMT 5908 23 65 LIHUFF 1 HQS

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

ANNH H. TAKHSOFF

Dear Mis

Reference is made to your present contract with the United
States Government, as represented by the Contracting Officer.

Effective 14 August 1964, said contract is amended by
including therein provision for compensation increase of the
Government Employees Salary Reform act of 1964, in conformance
with the policies and procedures of this organization.

All other terms and conditions of the contract remain in
full force and effect.

UN TIED STATES GOVERNMENT
BY Sillhard C. Crotis
Contracting Officer

SECRET

Group 1 - Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.

REVIEWED:
/s/ Joseph B. Ragan
Special Contracting Officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# DISPATCH

c/WH/SS

CPD

BD 4659 Fax Bafe

fo CCS - Can 19 - HiTT

5270


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

14-00000

DISPATCH


Orig needs fund - 17 Aug 64
WH/B&F
CPD-5 E69
CFD/CEAS-227bt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

NO SO 48769 A

SECRET
(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

DATE 29 July 1964

I DO HEREBY DECLARE THAT MY TRUE AND LEGAL SIGNATURE IS:

![signature]

Anna Tarasoff
(NAME, PRINTED OR PIPEWRITTEN)

WITNESS:

![signature]

Herbert Manell

![RIGHT THUMB PRINT]

SECRET

NO SD 48769 B

SECRET
(EVEN WHEN BLANK)

DATE 29 July 1964

I DO HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT IN MY RELATIONS WITH THE
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT, I WILL USE THE FOLLOWING SIG-
NATURE WHERE REQUIRED:

![signature] Sandra B. Cagazzisi

Sandra B. CAZAZZUS
(NAME, PRINTED OR TYPEWRITTEN)

![RIGHT THUMB PRINT]

WITNESS:

![signature]

Gerald F. GESTETNER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

CONTRACT TYPE B SECURITY APPROVAL

DATE : 15 July 1964

YOUR REFERENCE: Memorandum dated 13 July 1964

CASE NO. : 131751

TO : WH/PERS

SUBJECT : TARASOFF, Anna A.

1. This is to inform you of Security Approval of the Subject person for Contract Type B employment as specified in your request under the provisions of Headquarters Regulation 20-53.

2. Unless arrangements are made within 60 days to contract with Subject within 120 days, this Approval becomes invalid.

3. This office is to be advised when a Contract is signed by Subject and when the Contract is terminated.

4. As a part of this contracting process:

A polygraph interview must be arranged by your office.

A polygraph interview is not necessary.

![Signature of W. A. Osborne]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

TO:
CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

Personal Security Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT:
(Tear none) Tarasoff, Anna
CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES

DATE:
13 July 1964

FROM:
WH/PERS
CH-4408

PROJECT:
Station Support

CI/OA FILE NO.
RI 201 FILE NO. SO FILE NO.
131751

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPRCIAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT NAME CHECK

X COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL Type B SPECIAL INQUIRY (so field investigation)

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Mexico City, Mexico

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

Her principal responsibility will be to assist her husband, a Staff Agent, in the transcribing and processing of the Station's LIENVOY/LIFMBICK product.
Subject rosigned from staff employee status on 8 September 1963.
She has been with her husband in Mexico during interim period.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                                        | YES | NO  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-: | :-: |
| A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                         |     |  X  |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                                     |     |  X  |
| C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?                                |  X  |     |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?                                            |  X  |     |
| E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.               |     |     |
| F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT. |     |     |
| IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA. EXPLAIN FULLY                                         |     |     |

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED PRO II BILL DE FORWARDED
PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHED NO:

6. RI TRACES

NO RECORD WILL FORWARD NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY ATTACHED

7. DIVISION TRACES

NO RECORD I WILL FORWARD NON DEROGATORY DEPOGATORY ATTACHED

8. FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD WILL FORWARD

NO DEROGATORY INFO. DEROGATORY ATTACHED

LIST SOURCES CHECKED

NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF
W.S. Renehan 6577 W.E. Brooks

FORM 772 USE PREVIOUS
1-62 EDITIONS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, MI Division

INFO Chief, SR Division

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT ANTIHISTAMINE/FAINT WAR Contract

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REFERENCE: ITEM-9691

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

1. Transmitted under separate cover attachment are three copies of a signed field contract completed on the Subject of reference.

2. For principal responsibility will be to assist her husband Douglas J. MINGLASS (P) in the transcribing and processing of the Station's LIENVOY/LIMERICK product. The part-time employment of Subject will permit MINGLASS to devote considerably more effort and concentration on the preparation of assessment studies on the VISUAL component.

Willard C. Curtis

Attachment:

As stated above (w/o)

Distribution:

2 - HD, w/att

1 - SHD, w/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

![declassification]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER 1227-4049

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

DATE 12 June 1964

HQS FILE NUMBER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

Fear . Thearoff:

The United States Government, as represented by the Contracting officer, hereby contracts with you, as a Contract Employee, for the use of your services and the performance of duties of a confidential nature under the following terms and conditions:

1.  Compensation. In full consideration for the use of your services and the performance of specified confidential duties, you will be compensated in an amount calculated at the rate of $2.50 per hour. Payments will be made as directed by you in writing in a manner acceptable to the Government. Taxes will be withheld therefrom and submitted by the United States Government.

2.  Benefits. (a) You will be entitled to death and disability benefits equal to those authorized under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act, as amended. Claims by you, your heirs or legal representatives under this warrant will be processed by the Government in accordance with its procedures in such manner as not to impair security.

(b) You will be entitled to sick and annual leave equal to and subject to the same rules and regulations applicable to Government employees. Such annual leave may only be taken at times and places approved in advance by appropriate representatives of the Government.

(c) You will be entitled to continuance of pay and allowances in a manner similar to that set forth in the Missing Persons Act (50 U.S.C.A., Ann. 1001-1015).

(d) The Government will withhold from the compensation due you under this agreement social security deductions in conformance with the basic social security legislation, as amended, and the procedures of this Organization. For reasons of security, all inquiries concerning your relationship to the social security system shall be made directly to this Organization, and in no event may any such problem be presented by you or on your behalf to any representative of the governmental unit responsible for implementing the social security program.

3.  Execution of Documents. If in the performance of services under this contract you acquire the custody of Government funds or take title of record to property of any nature whatsoever and wheresoever situate, which property has, in fact, been purchased with monies of the U.S. Government, you hereby recognize and acknowledge the existence of a trust relationship, either express or constructive, and you agree to execute whatever documents may be required by the Government to evidence this relationship.

4.  Secrecy. You will be required to keep forever secret this contract and all information which you may obtain by reason thereof (unless released in writing by the Government from such obligation), with full knowledge that violation of such secrecy may subject you to criminal prosecution under the Espionage laws, dated 25 June 1948, as amended, and other applicable laws and regulations.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

5. Instructions. Instructions received by you for the fovemrent in briefing, mining or otherwise are a part of this contact and are incorporated herein, provided that such fratructions are not Inconsistent with the terms hereof.

6. Ihauthorized Commitmente, to promises or cceritrents pertaining to ridits, priviles or bereits other than those expressly stipulated in writing in this acreement or any arendrent thereto shall be binding on the Covertrent.

7. Term. This contract is effective as of

shall continue thereafter for a period of two (2) years unless sooner terminated either:

(a) Dy thirty (30) days' actual notice by either porty hereto, or

(b) without prior notice by the Governreit in the event of a breach of this contrect by your violation of the security provisions hereof or by your othercise rendering yourself unavailable for acceptable service.

Subject to the availability of appropriations, this asreerent ray be exterxled upon notice from the Covement. Termiration of this acreement will not release you from the obligations of any security cath you may be required to take.

UNITED STATES COVER PYT

![signature of Winston McDod]

ACCEPTED:

![signature of Anna A. Tazaroff]
Anna A. Tazaroff

WITNESS:

Halent Mour

APPROVED:

FEED:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# LASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

JO : DIRECTOR

FROM :

ACTION: WHS

INFO : CI, CHOPS, CIPA, SR 7, VE

SECPA2017

DIP CITE ME 9501

2JUN 95704

REDCOAT

IMMEDIATE ACTION

REF. HWS-2982, 11 JUNE 1953

1. PER DISCUSSIONS WITH WALLACE A. DEMOLAT, STATION WISHES

EXPLOY WIFE OF DOUGLAS J. FEINGLASS ASAP TO ASSUME PART OF LATTER'S

LIENVOY TRANSLATION AND TRANSCRIPTION DUTIES. WOULD FREE HIM TO

CONCENTRATE MORE ON PREPARATION ASSESSMENTS-CHARACTERIZATIONS OF

SOV COMPLEMENT.

2. REQUEST HQS INITIATE CLEARANCE. FORWARDING FIELD CONTRACT

WHICH WILL BE IN ACCORDANCE REF.

SECRET

SECRET

![handwritten text that says Read July 9]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![handwritten text that says Copy No.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

SECRET

Chier of Station, Mexico

XX

Chief, WHD

Wife of Douglas J. FEINGLASS

Please inform Subject that her resignation fron staff
employee status has been processed and made effective as of
8 September 1963.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
2 Mexico City

205-3145 23 September 1963

SECRET

WH/PERS W.S. Renehan ecm 7555.

Distribution:
1 - WH/Reg
1- WH/PERS

C/WH/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET RYBAT

FROM: Chief, WHD

SUBJECT: Wife of Douglas J. FEINGLASS

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1.  The wife of Douglas J. FEINGLASS has asked that she be considered for employment in a contractual capacity. She was advised that biographic information would be forwarded and that whether or not her services were used would be up to the Station.

2.  Subject has previously submitted her resignation from staff status and was processed out effective 7 June and placed on 90 days LWOP. In the event there is a requirement for her services within the 90 day period, she may be hired in a contract capacity without further clearances. Her contract should contain provision for Civil Service coverage; other benefits would be in accord with her contractual status as outlined in FHB 20-1000-1. At the time the contract is forwarded Headquarters, a functional description of her duties should also be forwarded.

3.  Subject is scheduled to leave with her two children by train in 16 June. She and the children will enter on tourist cards. They have also applied for regular passports.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment: Biographic Profile, USC

Distribution: 3 Mexico City, w/att. USC

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMM-S-2980

DATE: 11 June 1963

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET RYBAT

Distribution:

1 - WH/Fors


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

SECRET/RYBAT

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
HMM-S-2980

DOB: 5 May 1923

POB: Cleveland, Ohio

HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE: 1942

CHILDREN: Daughter - Barbara, 21 Dec 1945
con, 20 Mar 1949

EXPERIENCE: 1944 - 1945 Cleveland Trust Co., Cleveland, Ohio
Commercial Bookeeper

1955 - 1956 American Trust Co., San Leandro, Calif.
Commercial Bookeeper

8 Apr 1957 EOD KUBARK, Clerk, GS-4

14 Jul 1957 PBJointly, Clerk

9 Mar 1958 KUDESK, Intell Clerk

2 Nov 1958 Promotion, GS-5

8 Jan 1961 Promotion, GS-6

7 Jun 1963 LWOP for 90 days at end of which time
resignation will be effected.

FITNESS REPORT: 30 June 1961 - 30 June 1962, Overall Rating "A"
(Transilterates Russian Material "p")

TRAINING: Basic Supervisors, 2-13 May 1960

TEST: Russian, Reading "E"

SECRET/RYBAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

MEMORANDUM RECEIPT 7 June 1963

TO: W.S.Renehan, WH/Pers

FROM: Mrs. Anna Tarasoff

SUBJECT: Receipt of Advance of Funds for Transportation from Washington, D. C. to Mexico City

I hereby acknowledge receipt of the following:

$525.00 in conjunction with Subject, it is understood that this advance is for lowest first class rail travel Washington to Mexico City, Mexico and related costs, and anticipated per diem for three days for myself and two dependant children.
Accounting for the advance will be submitted to the Mexico City Station.

Please return ______ signed copy(ies) of this receipt

Anna Tarasoff
SIGNATURE OF RECIPIENT

7 June 1963
DATE RECEIVED

To

FORM NO. 752 REPLACES FORM 55-00
1 AUG 55 WHICH MAY BE USED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET

7 June 1983

MEMORANDUM FOR: Personnel Security Division,
Office of Security

SUBJECT: Mrs. Anna Tarasoff, Contract
Employee Clearance

1. It is requested that clearance be granted for the employment of Mrs. Anna Tarasoff as a Contract Employee, Type A or B at the Mexico City, Mexico Station to provide clerical services.

2. Mrs. Tarasoff is presently a GS-6, staff employee. She is being reassigned to the CS Development Complement and placed on a 90 day LWOP status effective COB 7 June in order to join her husband.

3. In the event the Mexico Station can use her services she would be employed in a contractual capacity and her resignation from staff employee status would be effected the day prior to the effective date of contract.

4. In the event additional information is desired, please contact Mr. William Renchan, extension 7565.

W. E. BROOKS
Chief, WI Support


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

# REQUEST FOR PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

O5935 ZAJADIOFF, ANNA

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

LUOP AND REASSIGNMENT

4. EFFECTIVE DATE REQUESTED 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MONTH DAY YEAR
6 7 63 REGULAR

6. FUNDS A V TO V V TO CF 8. LEGAL AUTHORITY (Completed by
   Office of Personnel)
   CF TO V CF TO CF

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGE- 1ABLE
   327-1770-1000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
   DDP CI STAFF WASHINGTON, D.C.

CE DEVELOPMENT COMPLETENT

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
    INTELL CLERK # 3971 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE
    GS 0313.01 6 4 $5,545. homly rate
    2.67
    2.54=

18. REMARKS

FROM: DDP CI STAFF/SPECIAL INVESTIGATION GROUP/PROJECTS BR/LITELL CLK/WASH., D.C/0151

Employee's last working day 7 June 1963.

LUOP (HHB 10-1 Para. 10 a.) Leave of absence to accompany husband to new station -
not to exceed 90 days.

ce to security and finance

18a. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTING OFFICIAL DATE SIGNED 18b. SIGNATURE OF CAREER SERVICE APPROVING DATE SIGNED
OFFICER
Byron L. Burmes STAFF 5 Jun 63

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. EMPLOY. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. STATION 24. DATE OF BIRTH 25. DATE OF 26. DATE OF 27. DATE OF RET
    CODE CODE CODE CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR.

NUMERIC ALPHABETIC

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. GET SEMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECT T/AUTH/SPEC. ATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SER.
    REFERENCE CODE CODE CODE DATA CODE REG. NO. NO.
    MO. DA. YR.

1 T- CSR 3-FICA EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36 SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FED. / HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE MO. DA. YR. MO. DA. YR. CODE CAR/RES/SH CODE FED. / HEALTH INS. CODE
    PROV/TEMP 0 - NONE 1 - YES

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. MILITARY DAT MO. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. FORM EXECUTED 44a. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE 1 - YES 1 - YES
    0 - NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1 - YES
    1 - NO BREAK IN SERVICE 2 - NO 2 - NO 2 - NO
    2 - BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS)
    3 - BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS) 46. C.P. APPROVAL DATE APPROVED

45. POSITION CONTROL CERTIFICATION

FORM 1152 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITION SECRET SEC. GROUP 1
4-62 AND FORM 1152a. FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING
AND DECLASSIFICATION

(4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

# PUBLIC SCHOOLS
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

# WOODROW WILSON
HIGH SCHOOL

PUPIL'S PERMANENT RECORD

LAST NAME OF PUPIL
TARASOFF

PARENT OR GUARDIAN
Baria Deitri Tarasoff

RESIDENCE
5109 - 45th Street, N.W.

PLACE OF BIRTH
Ohio

FIRST NAME
BARBARA

OCCUPATION
Analyst - U.S. Government

TEL.
EM 2-6990

DATE OF BIRTH
12.22.45

MIDDLE NAME
fr.
DATE OF ENTRY
9.6.61

FROM
Kramer Jr.

DATE OF WITHDRAWAL TO

DATE OF RE-ENTRY FROM


| MATH GRADE            | YEAR BEG. | SECTION | SUBJECT        | TEACHER | FINAL | UNIT | YEAR BEG. | SECTION | SUBJECT      | TEACHER | FINAL | UNIT |
| --------------------- | --------- | ------- | -------------- | ------- | ----- | ---- | --------- | ------- | ------------ | ------- | ----- | ---- |
| Faction               |           |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| 6                     | 9.6.61    | 112-2   | English 3H     | ALQ     | A     | A    | 9.5.62    | 112-3   | English 3H   | LRG     | R     |      |
| ALg. & Arith. History | A         |         | Mod. History   |         |       |      |           |         | U.S. History |         |       |      |
| 4th Algebra 1&2       | A         |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| French                | 3K        |         | Phy. Sci& Adv. | ARS     | C     | B    |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| 7th Math              | A         |         | French 2H      | ALF     | A     | A    |           |         | French 2H    | UHF     | A     |      |
| Latin                 | A         |         | Latin 4H       | RKS     | A     | A    |           |         | Latin 4H     | SWA     | R     |      |
| Typing                |           |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| 8th Science           |           |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| Biology               |           |         | Chemistry      |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| Gen. Science          | A         |         | Biology        |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| 9th Science           | A         |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| Chemistry             |           |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| Physics               |           |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |
| Biology               | A         |         | Chem. H        | ANK     | B     | A    |           |         |              |         |       |      |
|                       |           |         |                |         |       |      |           |         |              |         |       |      |

UNOFFICIAL
U.S. History 55" A, |
UNOFFICIAL!
|              |                  |     |        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| ------------ | ---------------- | --- | ------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Physical Ed. | 204              |     | CERUND | B   | A   |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |
| Text Record  | Military Science |     |        |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |


UNOFFICIAL
| Department | 9½ | R | H |
| Dana Project | 1½ | M |
| Days Absent Ex. | 0  |           |
| Times Tardy | 2  |           |
| Physical Ed. | 9 | CER | A |
| Military Science |

| Department | 90½ | R | H |
| Dana Project | 2½ | M |
| Days Absent Ex. | 0  |           |
| Times Tardy |  |           |
| Physical Ed. |  |           |
| Military Science |

Department
Dana Project
Days Absent Ex.
Times Tardy


Son Raymond


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)