# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

43 SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: SAS 8

INFO: ADDP, SOD 6, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT, RI/AN, WH 7, DS/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AD/RR 3, VR.

SECRET 1200282

DIR CITE WAVE 0924

INTEL TYPIC

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SUPDATA: AMLISP-1 IN SW MSG 315 DTD 7 NOV 63 RECD FROM TRANSLATION 30 NOV 63. SUBSOURCE IS REBECA (ALBERT) WHOSE FRANCE'S UNCLE, JUAN (FRANCISCO HERNANDEZ)(PER SW 328 DATED 28 NOV), IS A NOTARY WHO RESIDES NEAR TORRENS AND WHO REPORTED OBSERVATIONS OF TRAFFIC. FIELD COMMENT

SHOE. RID: INDEX. FILED 1200282.

REPORT CLASS: SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM CONTROLLED DISSEM CUBA

SUBJ: TRUCK TRAFFIC AND TUBE-LIKE OBJECTS SEEN ENTERING TORRENS BASE

DOI: 9 OCT - 7 NOV 63 PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (30 NOV 63)

UFG-4246

SOURCE: A FORMER CUBAN GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE WHO HAS THE

> [Figure] A box with the text "NO DISSEM...THE ATTACHED PORTION OF THIS CABLE HAS BEEN...BEADS OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENG...BY THE ACTION UNIT."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

COUNTRY

REPORT NO. TDCS

SUBJECT

DATE DISTR.

DATE OF INFO.

PRECEDENCE IN 8134

PLACE &
DATE/CO.

REFERENCES

APPRAISAL

FIELD REPORT NO.

SOURCE

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. AS OF 7 NOVEMBER 1963, AFTER 10:00 P.M. ALMOST EVERY NIGHT TRUCKS AND TRAILER TRUCKS COVERED WITH CANVAS WERE OBSERVED TRAVELING TOWARD TORRENS, THE FORMER REFORMATORY ON THE WAJAY HIGHWAY SOUTHWEST OF HABANA.

2. ON 11 OCTOBER SIX LARGE TRAILER TRUCKS ENTERED TORRENS AND ON 9 OCTOBER, TEN MORE OF THESE LARGE TRAILER TRUCKS ENTERED THE BASE. AN UNIDENTIFIED DRIVER OF A VEHCILE TRAVELLING BEHIND ONE OF THE TRUCKS REPORTEDLY OBSERVED TUBE-LIKE OBJECTS WHICH PROTRUDED AT LEAST ONE METER BEYOND THE TRUCK BED OF ONE OF THE TRAILERS, WHEN BY CHANCE THE WIND BLEW TO ONE SIDE THE TARPAULIN COVERING THE TRAILER'S CARGO.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

3.  FIELD COMMENT: THE TORRENS SURFACE-TO-AIR MISSILE ASSEMBLY AREA WAS ACTIVE DURING THIS PERIOD, ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

4.  FIELD DISSEM: NONE.

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)