# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

**DISPATCH**

TO: Chief, Special Affairs Staff

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/OPERATIONAL Special Activities Report on JMWAVE's Relationship with ANCARBON-1

ACTION REQUIRED: Paragraph 10

REFERENCES:
A. WAVE 8981, dated 24 September 1962

B. WAVE 9169, dated 28 September 1962

C. WAVE 9313, dated 2 October 1962

D. DIR 40975, dated 6 October 1962

E. UFGA 14417, dated 4 March 1964

## 1. INTRODUCTION

In Reference E, JMWAVE forwarded a review of the nature of its relationship with ANCARBON-2. This review indicates that the relationship with ANCARBON-2 evolved from that action which was taken in September 1962 to insure that a security breach would not occur as a result of an investigation which was being carried out by the Identity 1 relative to the fact that the establishment of the Identity 2 was being kept from the YOBELT South Campus as a result of security restrictions which were in some way related to JMDUSK. While the relationship with AMCARDON-2 stemmed from the remedial action which had been taken in a crisis situation, the establishment of a working relationship with the Identity 3 was an objective which JMWAVE had always hoped to obtain. As a matter of fact, in Reference A, the recommendation was made that JMWAVE be given approval to contact the major South Florida news media in an attempt to work out a relationship with these news media which would insure that they did not turn the publicity spotlight on those KUBARK activities in South Florida which might come to their attention. Thus, when a relationship was established with AMCARDON-2, it was carefully cultivated in order that JMWAVE might be able to use this contact at the Identity 3 as a means of achieving the objective of having a relationship with the Identity 3, which would simultaneously insure the security of JMWAVE's operations and give JMWAVE an outlet into the press which could be used for surfacing certain select propaganda items. In the period October to

Attachments: USC

A - Five Newspaper Clippings

B - Identities

Distribution: 3 - Chief, SAS, w/atts.

(CONTINUED)

|                        |                                                                     |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| DATE TYPED 19 March 64 | DATE DISPATCHED APR 2 1964                                          |
| CROSS REFERENCE TO     | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGA-14781                               |
| CLASSIFICATION SECRET  | HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER 201-                                       |
| OFFICE COS             | ORIGINATING OFFICER Andrew K. REUTEMAN/vtp                          |
| OFFICE SYMBOL          | COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME                                         |
| ESEC                   | RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE DUDLEY R. WILLINGS ANDREW K. REUTEMAN |

* RI Chrono

1 - 201 file (O/COS

1 - COS Chrono


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET UFGA-14781

December 1962, all of JMWAVE's business with the Identity 3 was handled via ANCARION-2. In mid-December 1962, ANCARION-2 made the suggestion that he introduce REUTEMAN to ANCARION-1 in order that there be a backup contact, in the event that ANCARION-2 were out of town or unavailable at such times as REUTEMAN might require assistance from the Identity 3. REUTEMAN agreed to ALCARDON-2's suggestion, and, as a result, ANCARDON-2 hosted a luncheon on 12 December 1962 at the Miami Club in the Hotel Columbus, Miami, Florida, at which ALCARLON-2 Introduced ANEAIΔΟΝ-1 to REUTTIAN. As a result of this initial mooting on 12 December 1962, an operational relationship has developed with ANCARION-1, and it is believed that this relationship contributes to the fulfillment of the over-all JMWAVE mission, In view of this, a special activities report is being submitted to cover the nature of JUTAVE's relationship with ANCARDON-1 during the period December 1962 to March 1964.

2. FRAME OF REFERENCE FOR FIMAVE'S RELATIONSHIP WITH ACADON-1

Whon AMCAREON-2 Introduced MCANTON TO ROUMELANACAREON-2 reviewed the ground rules under which he had been cooporating with REUTENAN, This review was conducted for LICARDON-18 benofit, in order that he might clearly understand the frame of roference which should prevail in his relationships with REUTEMAN. In this rovica, ALCARDON-2 pointed out that it was the policy of the Identity 3 that it would tako no action which would purposoly embarrasa KUDARK or ito South Florida oporations. As a rosult, if any embarrassing items relative to KUBANK's operations in South Florida did come to the attention of the Identity 3, this material would be brought to REUTEMAN's immediate attention. AMCAREON-2 made it clear to AMCARDON-1 that such items should be discussed with REUTELAN in a frank manner. In addition, ANCARIAN-2 made the point that, after an item was discussed, AMCARION-1 should follow REUTENAN's guidance relative to how any particularly ombarrassing item might be handled by the Identity 3, so that it would not expose KUBARK operations and, at the same time, would not jeopardize the journalistic reputation of the Identity 3. In addition, ANCARLON-2 pointed out that, if AMCANDON-1 brought a potentially embarrassing itom to REUILLAN's attention and remedial action on the matter was not taken by REUTHIAN within a reasonable period of time, then the Identity 3 would feel free to expose any ineptness on KUDARK's part. AMCARDON-2 pointed out that in return for this cooperation from the Identity 3, REUTEMAN had agreed that he would be available for contnet by telephone or periodic personal meetings at which AMCARDON-1 and AMCARDO1-2 could discuss brond trends and developments in Latin American affairs. ABICARDON-2 advised ALCARPON-1 that this arrangement did not mean that AMCARDON-1 could expect to obtain any classified information from REUTTOMAN. The point was also made that ALCARDON-1 should not press for the obtaining of classified information, but ho should be alert to stcoring tips which REUTELAN might furnish him on fast-breaking news stories. AMCARDON-1 indicated that he understood the frame of reference which had been outlined by AMCARDON-2. This frame of reference has prevailed throughout JMWAVE's relationship with AMCARION-1 during the period December 1962 to March 1964.

3. ANCARION-1'S JOURNALISTIC CAREER. ALICARDON-1 originally started to work for the Identity 3 in 1957 on the City Desk, and subsequently advanced from this assignment to an assignment which ontailed covering major political dovelopments in Florida. At a later date, ANCAREON-1 became a feature writer for the Identity 3. Then in July or August 1962, ANCARBON-1 was made the Identity 4. This assignment was considered to be a significant


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

promotion for ANCARBON-1, and it reflected confidence in him by the Identity 3 management. ANCARTON-1 is by no means an expert on Latin America, but he is developing his knowledge on the area and, at the moment, he gives every indication of wanting to bo a Long-term Latin American specialist. QDELF has been questioned About AMCARION-1, and he has indicated that AMCARION-1 18 regarded in the journalistic trade as an oxtromoly likeable fellow who has a koon mind but who lacks experience in depth on Latin American Affairs. It is QUELF's opinion that given an appropriate lapse of time, ANCARBON-1 will develop into one of the loading Latin Amorican specialists in U.S. Journalistic circles. ANCARION-1 has a working command of Spanish, and he is constantly attempting to improve his language fluency. It is REUTENAN's opinion that AMCARDON-1 ban developed rapidly as a Latin American specialist, And he will continue to grow in this field. Thus, he is a contact who should be developed and harnessed for exploitation, bearing in mind that he does have long-term potential

4. ANCARPON-1'8 CONTACTS AND SOURCES. In keeping with tho traditional pattorn of source protection which is common to newspapermen, intelligence officers and law enforcement officers, AMCARBON-1 attempts to guard the true identity of all of his Bources. On the other hand, when pressed, ANCARDON-1 bas identified some of his sources to REUTENAN, in order that meaningful evaluations could be made of that information which AMCARDON-1 had passed to KUBANK. ΑΘ a result of these occasional witting identifications of bie sources, and, as a result of general conversations with AMCANDON-1, REUTEMAN has learned that ANCARBON-l's sources include the following persons:

a. Luis *FERNANDEZ* Rocha (201-316766), decretary general of the DRE.

b. Manolo *RAY* Rivero (201-239298), chief of JURE.

c. Carlos *TODD* y Lobo (201-264141) of the defunct Havana Times.

d. AMBIDDY-1 (201-267437)

e. Aureliano *SANCHEZ* Arango (201-019245), leader of the AAA

f. Edmund *LEANY* of the Washington News Buroau. ANCARBON-1 regards this source as being particularly interesting, in view of the fact that LEABY's daughter is a secrotary in the office of Attorney General Robert KENNEDY,

g. Frank *FIORINI* (201-242256), free-lance pilot and adventurer.

h. Eduardo *SUAREZ* Riva, public relations man for the MRR.

i. Luis *MUNOZ* Marin, governor of Puerto Rico,

j. Juan *BOSCH* Gavino (201-103272), former president of the Dominican Republic.

k. Charles *KEELY* of the Copley Wire Service.

l. Jorge *VOLSKY* Kraisler (201-352252), an employee of USIA in Miami. ALCARBON-l is well aware of the fact that VOLSKY is a defacto stringer for Tad SZULC of the New York Times, but this does not deter AMCARBON-1 from attempting to exploit VOLSKY as a source of information.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# 5. OPERATIONAL SUPPORT. On occasion, AMCARDON-1 10 used to carry out certain operational support tasks. In such instancos, CARION-1 makes his inquiries or carries out the required action within the context of his normal journalistic activities. The use of ANCAREON-1 for operational support tasks enables JHWAVE to harness the investigative facilities of the Identity 3. Several xamples of how AMCARDON-1 has been used in operational support tasks are outlined below:

## a. Andrew ORDONO Camps.
In March 1963, Andrew *ORDONO-Campe*, DPOD 30 September 1914, Gibara, Cuba, A 12 837 617, arrived in Miami and was given routine CAC processing. The details of this processing are contained in MA-0085, dated 12 March 1963. Aftor being rolonged by CAC, ORDONO was interviewed by the Identity 3, and a sensational story was developed. In view of this story, JUWAVE tried to locate ORDONO for debriefing. This effort was not productivo thus AMCARDON-1 was asked to locate ORDONO, ALCANDON-1 did locato ORDONO in Houston, Texas. See WAVE-6307, dated 25 March 1963, for details.

## b. Discrediting Carlos BANDIN of the UNN Splinter Group.
In UFGW-2555, dated 13 September 1963, loadquarters suggested that JUWAVE might be able to discredit Carlos BANDIN Cruz (201-309611): of the MRR splinter group as a result of DANDIN's over inflatod claims relative to his faction invading Cuba. Headquarters intorest in discrediting BANDIN was also stimulated by the fact that BANDIN' irresponsiblo publicity stunts were causing problema for AUDIDDY-1. As a result of Headquarters' interest in this matter, HEUTENAN had à luncheon session with AMCARBON-1 on 24 September 1963, at which AMCARDON-1 was advised that the DANDIN faction of the MRR was loss than accurato in its claims relative to its activities in Cuba, In view of this, REUTEMAN suggested that the Identity 3 might want to soft poddlo any future war communiques which the BANDIN faction might relonso, AMCARDON-1 stated that, in view of REUTEMAN'G comments, the Identity 3 would not only soft peddle, but would ignore the DANDIN faction in the future. Once DANDIN was dincredited with AMCARDON-1, the word was soon leaked by AMCARBON-1 to other newspapermen that BANDIN was not a reliable sourco, As a result of this action, the BANDIN group has received minimal media coverage in South Florida since September 1963.

# 6. OPERATIONAL INTELLIGENCE. In the period February 1963 to February 1964, ANCARDON-I has furnished JMWAVE with operational intelligence as outlined below:

## a.
In HAVE 4836, dated 21 February 1963, AMCARBON-1 reported that AMBEND-1 was back in Miami and was the object of a great deal of press interest in view of AMBEND-1's release from a Havana prison. AMCARDON-1 also indicated that AMBEND-1 would probably be a knowledgeable source.on the current activities of the UR in Cuba. This operational intelligence was most helpful in terms of keeping JMWAVE informed on AMEEND-1's movements. Subsequent developments revealed that AMCARDON-1 could not contact AMBEND-1, and thus AMBEND-1's return to the United States did not cause the publicity stir that was initially anticipated.

## b.
In WAVE 6176, dated 22 March 1963, AMCARDON-1 reported that the Identity 3 was attempting to research a full feature article on the Bay of Pigs invasion. The intent of this article was to furnish a recapitulation of the entire tactical situation. In this connection, AMCARBON-1 pointed out that he was


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-14781

thinking about exposing the role of Miami attorney Alex E. *CARLSON*, residing 145 Curtiss Parkway, Miami Springs, Florida, in the Bay of Pigs operation. ANCARDON-1 stated that, if CARLSON were of any current interest to REUTEMAN, then the Identity 3 would soft peddle the CARLSON angle. REUTEMAN advised ANCARDON-1 that he had no interest in CARLSON but knew of him and was of the opinion that CARLSON was a sound and honest attorney. The receipt of this operational intelligence enabled JMWAVE to brief CARLSON on the Identity 3's over-all interest in the role that CARLSON had played in the Bay of Pigs invasion. This briefing, in turn, enabled CARLSON to more adequately prepare himself for a mooting with ANCARDON-1. While ANCARDON-1 did attempt to pursue this Bay of Pigs story, he never did put anything into print as the story was overtaken by other developments before ANCARDON-1 could finish his research.

c. In WAVE 0904, dated 9 July 1963, ANCARDON-1 advised JMWAVE that Mr. Trevor ARMBRISTER, an associate editor for the Saturday Evening Post, was in Miami during July 1963 attempting to research a story regarding the possibility that strategic missiles were hidden in Cuban caves. This information enabled JMWAVE to keep Headquarters informed on sensational-type articles which might be appearing relative to Soviet missiles in Cuba.

d. In WAVE 4701, dated 20 September 1963, AMCARDON-1 gave JMWAVE his resume of the discussions which he had with AMBIDDY-1 at the Miami Playboy Club on 19 September 1963. This information was useful in obtaining an insight into what AMBIDDY-1 was telling the press.

e. In WAVE 5661, dated 10 October 1963, ANCARDON-1 reported on a discussion that he had had on 10 October 1963 with AMBIDDY-1's public relations man. This operational intelligence was useful in terms of keeping KUBARK advised as to what AMBIDDY-1's representatives were telling the outside world about their operational activities.

f. In WAVE 6910, dated 31 October 1963, AMCARBON-1 informed JMWAVE about the flood of telephone calls which were being received at the Identity 3 relative to so-called KULANK vessels which were located in South Florida waters. This information alerted JMWAVE to the fact that press scrutiny was going to bo directed toward the Identity 5. Armed with this warning, JMWAVE was able to take action which minimized the publicity repercussions from a renewed press interest in the Identity 5.

g. In WAVE 7671, dated 16 November 1963, AICARDON-1 reported to JMWAVE the fact that he had received a letter from Peru which contained an interesting operational lead to one Carlos MONTALVANO in Puno, Peru. This lead was examined by JMWAVE, Headquarters and the Lima Station. This examination revealed that the letter was written by a crackpot; thus, there was no real operational potential in this lead. This incident did underscore the fact that AMCARBON-1 is willing to bring potentially significant operational leads to JMWAVE's attention.

h. In WAVE 1614, dated 6 February 1964, ANCARDON-1 advised JMWAVE that he had received numerous telephone calls indicating that Armando Andres GUIROLA Forte, who had defected from a Cuban fishing vessel might be an individual who had previously been seen in Miami during November or December 1963. At the same time, AMCARDON-1 pointed out that he was suspicious and thought that these telephone calls indicated that GUIROLA was not a bona fide defector, but was either a GOC agent or a KUBARK plant, who was being used as a means of creating an incident which would embarrass the GOC, as a result of their fishing boats penetrating


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# United States territorial waters. REUTENAN advised MUCARION-1
that KUILARK had played no role in mounting a provocation operation
against the GOC. At the same time, REUTISIAN pointed out that
it was highly unlikely that CUIROLA was a GOC agent. As a result
of this conversation, arrangements were made for JLWAVE to check
out cortain aspects of the GUIROLA story. At the same time,
AMCARDON-1 was provalled upon not to write a story which sight
lead the public to speculate on whether GUIROLA was an agent or a
plant in a propaganda play denigned to embarrass the GOC,

## 7. PROPAGANDA OUTLET.
ANCARDON-1 has been used successfully,
during the period covered by this report, as a propaganda catlet
through which items of interest to KUDARK could be surfaced in
the free world press. Examples of how AMCARDON-1 has been harnessed
in this field are outlined below:

### a. ANGRAD-1.
The ANCRAB-1 defection story originally
surfaced in the Man area on 13 October 1903 via the Diario de
las Amoricas, which played up an API release from Hontevideo.
The API Montevideo story highlighted ANCRAB-1's information
relative to GOC activities in Uruguay. The story in the Diario
de las Amoricas had an extremely limited impact on Spanish readers
in the Miami aron. As a result, it was decided to do a series
of feature stories on AMCRAE-1, pointing up the fact that ALCRAB-1
was typical of the voterans of the Granma oxpedition, who felt
they had been betrayed by CASTRO and had boon relegated to position8
of obscurity once the revolution had put CASTRO in power. ALCALDON-1
was briefed in dotail on the ALCRAB-1 story, and he was given in
opportunity to debrief ANCRAB-1 under controlled conditions in a
JUWAVE safehouse. After completing his dobriefing, ALCALIDA-1
wroto a series of feature articles on ANCRAB-1. The first article
in the series received front page headlino play. The series of
articles on AMCRAB-1 wore well written, and they provided an
excollent pog for JMWAVE to Bount a replay operation via other
propaganda assets. AUCARDAM-1's story on AMCRAB-1 wan picked up
by UPI, API and othors, and it was played throughout Latin America.
The details of this surfacing can be found in WAVE 5826, dated
14 October 1963, WAVE 6092, dated 19 October 1963; and, WAVE 8174,
dated 21 October 1903.

### b. Charles GRIFFIN Shrimp Boat Story.
On 26 February 1964
JMWAVE learned that when Mr. Charles CHIFFIN's sons went to Cuba
to reclaim tho hijacked shrimp boat, JOINNY REB, they found that
select items were missing from the bont when it it was turned over
to them. It was bolioved that this information would make a good
human interost story which JUWAVE assets could use to counter COC
propaganda claims that United States officials had stolen itens
from the Cuban fishing boats which had violated United States
torritorial waters. In view of this opinion, a steering tip vas
given to AMCARDON-1 to have the Identity 3 representative in
Key West interview Mr. GRIFFIN. This interview was carried out,
and an articlo outlining the points which wore of interest to
JMWAVE was published in the 27 February 1964 edition of the
Identity 3.

### c. LAYC Story.
The March 1964 LAYC mooting in Santiago,
Chile, was not receiving appropriate coverage in the South Florida
newspapers; as a result, REUTELAN contacted AMCARDON-1 on 5 March
1964 and suggested that the LAYC meeting was a story which the
Identity 3 should pursue. AMCARBON-1 was grateful for this steering
tip, and he assigned the task of preparing the story on the LAYC
to one of the mombers of his staff. A story on the LAYC was
subsequently published in the 6 March 1964 edition of the Identity 3

(COMMENT: Copies of the articles cited in subparagraphs a through
c above are attached for Headquarters information.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

8. POSITIVE INTELLIGENCE. Attempts have been made to obtain dissoninablo positivo Intelligence from AMCARION-1 during the poriod covered by this report. This attempt has been generally unsuccossful, in that AMCARBON-1 does not have a great number of contacts in Latin America who would give him access to worthwhilo inteligence appreciably in advance of the information appearing in the overt press. As a result, AMCARION-1 is usually not aware of insido developments in any Latin American country; consequently, he is not a worthwhile source of positive intolligence. As a matter of fact, AMCARBON-1 18 less valuable as a source of positivo Intelligence than most journalists. This is attributablo sololy to his lack of long-standing contacts in the Latin American political scono. It is believed that AMCARDON-1 111 ultimately overcomo this shortcoming; thus, w wo will continue to attempt to harness him the collection of positive e intolligence

9. COMMENT. In the period covered by this report, AMCARDON-1 has boon found to be a straight-forward individual who is honest, cooporative and who understands the need for security. Our relationship also indicatos that AMCARDON-1 is an accurato reporter of that information which ho passes to KUILARK, In view of this, JUWAVE plans to continuo to harness AMICARDON-1 in the samo mannor that he has been used in the past. It is believed that our rela- tionship with AMCARDON-1 enhances our ability to conduct our operational mission in a a socuro manner. In addition, this rolation- ship tondo to minimize the possibility that JNWAVE might have diffi- cultios with the media outlots in the South Florida aroa. As a result of our continuing rolationship with ANCARION-1, a special activities report will be forwarded at appropriate intervals.

10. It is requested that a 201 number be assigned AMCARDON-1 and that JHWAVE be advised of the number.

END OF DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

Separate Cover Attachment
B to UFGA-14781

Identities - 1 - The Miami News

2 - Sunland Training Center for Retarded Children

3 - The Miami Herald

4 - Latin American Editor

5 - The LEDA

DISTRIBUTION:
3 - Chief, SAS
1 - RI Chrono
1 - AMCARBON-1 201
1 - COS Chrono

![Group 1 excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)