# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

6 July 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Acting Director

Fedoral Eureau of Investigation

SUBJECT: Information Provided the Federal Bureau

of Investigation Regarding the Watergate

Incident

1. As a result of our conversation of 5 July, I would
   like to summarize the information which has been provided to
   you by the Agency in memorandum form (attention Mr. Arnold
   Parham) since the first series of memoranda on the subject
   beginning 20 June.

2. On 20 June separate memorandums were sent to you
   concerning Messrs. Frank Anthony Sturgis, Eugenio Rolando
   Martinez Careaga, Bernard L. Barker and Virgilio Conzales.
   The papers detailed available information on the subjects.
   We said that Mr. Frank Anthony Sturgis had never been re-
   cruited by the Agency, that he was a soldier of fortune but
   that he had been associated with an Agency contact, Hr.
   Eugenio Rolando Martinez Careaga, since the early sixties.
   Their relationship was built on a mutual interest in Cuban
   exile activities. Mr. Martinez was recruited in January 1961
   and has performed a variety of tasks for the Agency on Cuban
   matters up until June of this year. lle has been on a $100.00
   a month retainer since 1969. Mr. Martinez is a business
   associate of Fr. Bernard Barker in a real estate firm in Miani.
   Mr. Barker was a regular contact of the Federal Bureau of
   Investigation in Cuba when turned over to the Agency in mid-
1959. He was used as a source of information in Cuba until
      evacuated in early 1960. He was hired by the Agency in 1960
      for work among exile groups and was terminated by the Agency
      on 31 July 1966. No Agency contact has been maintained with
      him since that date. A thorough investigation of our files
      at Headquarters and by our Station in Miami has failed to
      turn up any information regarding Mr. Gonzales' connection
      with any Agency personnel or Agency-sponsored activities.

> [Figure] WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

> [Figure] EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY ES(1), (2), (3) or (4) (failed esa or pent)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

3. In two memoranda on 21 June we informed you of our relationship with the Robert R. Nullen Company and the General Foods Corporation. The utilization of the Robert R. Mullen Company dates back to June 1963. Mr. Mullen has provided certain sensitive cover support overseas for Agency employees. In addition, Mr. Hullen was involved in the formation of the Cuban Freedom Committee -- an activity terminated several years ago. As of 1 May 1970 Mr. Everette Howard Hunt, who had just retired from the Agency, became a legitimate employee of Mr. Mullen. In July 1971 Mr. Hunt informed the Agency he had been assigned to the White liouse Staff but continued to devote part of his time to the Mullen Company. The General Foods Corporation is a client of the Mullen Company. General Foods is providing certain cover 24 support to two Agency assets overseas. Over the years sixteen officials of General Foods have been cleared on certain aspects of our interests. They have not been informed of our use of the Robert R. Hullen Company. Also on 21 June, in response to a verbal request of 20 June, we informed you that a check of our records disclosed no record of Agency involvement with the Association of National Advertisers or the words "CIF".

4. In a separate memorandum on 21 June we advised you that a review of the duties and assignments of lir. James NcCord provided no indication that he was involved in Cuban matters and that he was not assigned to the Bay of Pigs operation. We stated, however, that he might have developed personal acquaintances which are not recorded in official personnel and security records. We have no information regarding Mr. McCord's activities with Cuban exiles since his retirement. We indicated in the same memorandum that as an Agency employee, Mr. liunt was involved in operational activities relating to Latin American countries and was known to have had some ties to Mr. Barker. In a separate memorandum of 27 June regarding ir. Hunt, we informed you about the issuance of the alias, Edward V. Hamilton, to Mr. Hunt on 30 September 1960. This alias was subsequently used by Mr. Hunt for several drivers licenses. We provided additional information on this subject in a memorandum of 5 July and also reported that there is no information in our files to the effect that Mr. Hunt was issued a Social Security Card or Insurance Policy bearing the name Edward J. or Edward Joseph Hamilton.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

5. Further, a memorandum was sent to you on 27 June regarding peripheral Agency contact with an ex-employce of Mr. James McCord, one Mr. Juan Rigoberto Ruiz Villegas. Mr. Ruiz was used by this Agency as a translator during the period June 1969 to June 1971. He has had no affiliation with the Agency since that time other than a personal relationship with a current Agency employee. One additional memorandum was provided you on 5 July regarding a Mr. Ross Ward Lambert who worked for the Agency as a Contract Employee from January 1965 until his retirement on 9 August 1971. Cur Office of Personnel referred Mr. Lambert to McCord Associates for employment upon retirement. He submitted a formal application but decided to accept employment elsewhere.

6. In addition to the above cited memoranda and several lesser items of information provided telephonically to Mr. Arnold L. Parham of your Alexandria office, the Director of Central Intelligence informed you orally on 27 June regarding information available to us on Mr. Manuel Ogarrio Daguerre, a Mexican national who has offices located in the same building as the Banco Internacional of siexico City. In short, ir. Hanuel Ogarrio Daguerre has not had any operational contacts with this Agency. On 23 June the Director of Central Intelligence also informed you orally regarding our information concerning Mr. Kenneth Harry Dahlberg. The last recorded contact of the Agency with Mr. Dahlberg was in May 1961.

7. Our Office of Security is in frequent contact with members of your staff in connection with the investigations you are conducting. The above information is for your use only and should not be disseminated outside your Bureau..

Vernon A. Walters
Lieutenant General U.S.A.
Acting Director


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)