2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET
RESTRICTED HANDLING

AGENCY MESSAGE

T 355119
PAGE 21-21
W 17275
TOR:261248Z JUL 73
PARI 3566

SECRET 061154Z JUL 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING
CITE PARIS 3566

TO: PRIORITY HEADQUARTERS

RYBAT MHCURB MHCHAOS

REFS: A. PARIS 3451, 7 May 73

B. HEADQUARTERS 4525, 2 May 73

1. UNBOUND PASSED FOLLOWING REPORT 5 JULY FROM SOURCE ("BABOUCHE")

"BLACK PANTHER MEMBERS GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT, GEORGE BROWN, MELVIN MC NAIR, HIS WIFE JEAN CAROL MC NAIR, AND JOYCE RILLERSON (WIFE OF GEORGE WRIGHT) ARRIVED IN PARIS FROM ALGIERS IN LATE MARCH. HENRI CURIEL'S CLANDESTINE ORGANIZATION HAS PROVIDED THEM LODGING AND TRAINING DURING THEIR STAY IN FRANCE. THE GROUP IS NOW TRYING TO ARRANGE PLASTIC SURGERY AND FALSE DOCUMENTATION TO PERMIT THEIR CLANDESTINE RE-ENTRY INTO U.S."

2. UNBOUND REQUESTS ON URGENT BASIS ANY AVAILABLE PHOTOS OF ABOVE INDIVIDUALS TO AID THEM IN IDENTIFYING THEM BEFORE SURGERY TAKES PLACE. PLS ADVISE. UNBOUND HAS NOT PASSED THIS INFO TO LEGAL ATTACHE.

3. E-2 IMPDET.

SECRET

7123

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 059876

g1pd


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

AGENCY MESSAGE

T 365119 PAGE 01-21 W 17275
TOR:261248Z JUL 73 PARI 3566

SECRET 261154Z JUL 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING
CITE(PARIS) 3566

TO: PRIORITY HEADQUARTERS.

RYBAT MACURS MHCHAOS

REFS: A. PARIS 3451, 7 May 73

S. HEADQUARTERS 4525, 2 May 73

1. (UNBOUND) PASSED FOLLOWING REPORT 5 JULY FROM SOURCE ("BABOUCHE")

#BLACK PANTHER MEMBERS GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT, GEORGE BROWN, MELVIN MC NAIR, HIS WIFE JEAN CAROL MC NAIR, AND JOYCE RILLERSON (WIFE OF GEORGE WRIGHT) ARRIVED IN PARIS FROM ALGIERS IN LATE MARCH. HENRI CURIEL IS CLANDESTINE ORGANIZATION HAS PROVIDED THEM LODGING AND TRAINING DURING THEIR STAY IN FRANCE. THE GROUP IS NOW TRYING TO ARRANGE PLASTIC SURGERY AND FALSE DOCUMENTATION TO PERMIT THEIR CLANDESTINE RE-ENTRY INTO U.S."

2. (UNBOUND) REQUESTS ON URGENT BASIS ANY AVAILABLE PHOTOS OF ABOVE INDIVIDUALS TO AID THEM IN IDENTIFYING THEM BEFORE SURGERY TAKES PLACE, PLS ADVISE. (UNBOUND) HAS NOT PASSED THIS INFO TO LEGAL ATTACHE.

3. E-2 IMPDET.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)