# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: DAVIS, THOMAS E.

50-1987

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CI/CA (ARCHIVES)

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               | LESLIE WIZELMANN         | Leslie Wizelman                 |
|               |               | JAMES P. KELLY           | James P. Kelly                  |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

APPROVAL WORK RECORD

pdt 29 Jan 58

CI/OA FILE NO.

50-1987

SECURITY OFFICE FILE NO.

67378

SUBJECT (FILL IN ONE ONLY)

CRYPTONYM

PROJECT

PSEUDONYM

TRUE NAME

DAVIS, Thomas E.

NAME CHECK & INVESTIGATIVE RECORD

|                    | CHECK (/) | INITIAL | DATE |            | CHECK (/) | DATE | TO  |
| ------------------ | :-------: | :-----: | :--: | ---------- | :-------: | :--: | :-: |
| PRO I              |           |         |      | P.O.A      |           |      |     |
| PRO II             |           |         |      | O.A.       |           |      |     |
| GREEN LIST         |           |         |      | C.B.A.     |           |      |     |
| RI TRACES          |           |         |      | P.C.S.A.   |           |      |     |
| OPS & DIV TRACES   |           |         |      | P.P.A.     |           |      |     |
| FIELD TRACES       |           |         |      | PROP. APP. |           |      |     |
| S.O. INDICES       |           |         |      | C.N.C.     |           |      |     |
| F.B.I. INDICES     |           |         |      | COMMENTS   |           |      |     |
| S.O. INVESTIGATION |           |         |      | COMMENTS   |           |      |     |

CASE OFFICER

DIVISION

Cover WE/3

EXTENSION

FORM NO. 126a 1 MAY 80

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIONAL STATHS OF SUBJECT

TO: 134

DATE 6.10.15

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT: Thomas E. DAVIS

1. A review of the files of CI/OA is being made for the purpose of retiring files on covert personnel who:

(a) No longer are being used;

(b) Do not satisfy the requirements for operational approval;

(c) Are of no further interest to the office of original request.

2. CI/OA records indicate the subject has been of interest to you since 1952 for: MAPPING WORK

*   Operational use
*   informational purposes

3. It is requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of subject, using the bottom of this form for your comment.

4. If no answer is received from you within 30 days, CI/OA will assume that you are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further notification to you.

COMMENTS FROM OFFICE OF ORIGIN

![Comments from office of origin]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIONAL STATUS OF SUBJECT

TO:

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT:

1. A review of the files of CI/OA is being made for the purpose of retiring files on covert personnel who:

   No longer are being used;

   (b) Do not satisfy the requirements for operational approval;

   (c) Are of no further interest to the office of original request.

2. CI/OA records indicate the subject has been of interest to you since for:

   operational use

   informational purposes

3. It is requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of subject, using the bottom of this form for your comment.

4. If no answer is received from you within 30 days, CI/OA will assume that you are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further notification to you.

COMMENTS FROM OFFICE OF ORIGIN

![Comments from office of origin]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# REQUEST FOR PRESENT OPERATIGNAL STATUS OF SUBJECT

**SECRET**

DATE:
6 Man 15-6
CI/OA FILE NO.:
So 1987

TO: *Chief, C.I.*

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

SUBJECT: Thomas E. DAVIS

1. A review of the files of CI/QA is being made for the purpose of retiring files on covert personnel who:
   (a) No longer are being used;
   (b) Do not satisfy the requirements for operational approval;
   (c) Are of no further interest to the office of original request.

2. CI/OA records indicate the subject has been of interest to you since 1952 for: MAPPING WORK

   ☑ operational use

   ☐ informational purposes

3. It is requested that you notify CI/OA of the present operational status of subject, using the bottom of this form for your comment.

4. If no arswer is received from you within 30 days, CI/OA will assume that you are no longer interested in the subject and will retire the file without further notification to you.

COMMENTS FROM OFFICE OF ORIGIN

Send Guerry to
31! Cover/Plans.


DISTRIBUTION: ORIGINAL & 1 TO ADDRESSEE; 1 TO CI/OA FILES

**SECRET**


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECURITY INFORMATION

SECRET

T. E. D.

#67378

8 February 1952

The files of G-2, Department of the Army, were checked in Subject's name on 5 February 1952. A file in the name of Thomas Edgar was reviewed and disclosed the following information:

In a letter to the Commanding General, 2nd Army, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland fron Intelligence Division, General Staff, U. S. Army, Washington, D. C., dated 25 May 1969, the Investigations Section states that information has been received from the Plans and Operations Division, General Staff, U. S. Army, liaison agency with the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, for the Department of the Army, that _, Thomas Edgar was granted "Q" clearance on 2 February 1949. The AEC clearance number if NT 6514.

The above information was predicated upon an L/S from 2nd Arzy, to Director of Intelligence, requesting verification of "Q" clearance regarding above individual.

File further reflects that the FBI conducted investigations on 18 January 1949 at Cincinnati, Ohio and 12 January 1949 at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania regarding Subject.

![LIETO DELICE LEB 52 8:28 V4.25 CHICVCO]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECURITY KEEZMATION

SECRET

Case No: 67378 8 April 1952

SYNOPSIS:

SUBJECT presently resides at 2596 Neil Avenue and not at 1596. He is married, has a son, about 25 years of age. SUBJECT attended Ohio State University from 1935 to 1939, receiving a B.S.C. degree. He was formerly employed as a garage mechanic in Hilliard, Chio and is presently Assistant Director of a Research Foundation at the Ohio State University. Neighborhood investigation was extremely favorable, nothing of a derogatory nature was developed. Credit favorable and Police negative. SUBJECT reportedly investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

This data is property of lespeoflon and Security Office, to be se turned when sucioct is no longer covertly used. Its existence of contents must not be disclosed except to CIA Stati Cosm directly concerned

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

Case No: 67378 8 April 1952

## BIRTH AND CITIZENSHIP:

At Columbus, Ohio:

According to the records of the Registrars Office, Ohio State University, SUBJECT was born in wellston, Chio during January 1903.

## EDUCATION:

At Columbus, Ohio:

The records of the Registrars Office, Ohio State University on 21 February 1952, revealed that SUBJECT was a student from 1935 to 1939, at which time he graduated with a B.S.C. degree.

## EMPLOYMENT:

At Columbus, Chio:

On 7 February 1952, the records of the Chio Bureau of Credits revealed that SUBJECT is presently the Assistant Director of the Research Foundation of the Ohio State University. Upon graduation from O.S.U., or shortly thereafter in December 1939, SUBJECT was employed by the university as Assistant Fraternity Auditor. He later noved from that position to that of Assistant Director in 1946. Prior to the time, he was employed as a mechanic in Arch Alder's Chevrolet Garage, Hilliards, Ohio.

## NEIGHBORHOOD:

At Columbus, Ohio:

On 2 April 1952, it was determined that SUBJECT resides in an apartment building located at 2596 Neil Anemus, near the university. Mrs Mae OWEN, Apt. ". 2596 Neil Avenue, stated that she has known the SUBJECT and his wife since the time of their moving in the building, which was about three years ago. She described them as "most subatebal people" and added that SUBJECT is the Assistant Director of the Research Foundation, Chio State University. He is most capable, likeable and respectable man and enjoys a fine reputation in the building and in the neighborhood generally. She further stated that the FBI has investigated hin several years ago, apparently in connection with his job at the Foundation. She described SUBJECT and his wife so

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

Case No: 67378 8 April 1952

"Upper middle class" with one son, about twenty-five years of age who is married and resides out of Ohio, although he is presently staying with his folks because his wife is in a hospital in Columbus with their newly arrived baby. Informant stated that she knew nothing but good relative to SUBJECT and his family and that he is truly a patriotic American.

On 2 April 1952, Mrs Thomas REEDER, Apt. "Б", 2506 Heil Avenue, stated that she has known SUBJECT and his wife as neigh- bors and that they are fine people, respected in the community and are conservative in their living and habits. They have one son, Ed, who is precntly staying with them. SUBJECT, according to informant, is "homey" and does not drink or have any bad habits to her knowledge. She considere him a one-hungred per- cent American.

On 2 April 1952, Mrs. P.W. HOMSHER, Apt. "C", 2590 Neil Avenue, stated that she has been acquainted with the SUBJECT and his wife for about a year as neighbors. She knew little about than except that they are nice people and well thought of in the neighborhood, They are quiet, do not engage in many social activities. Informant confirmed SUBJECT's employment and added that she knew of nothing of a derogatory nature regarding the SUBJECT or his family.

Mrs John R. SHOWBALL, Apt. "A", 2596 Neil Avenue, stated that she has known SUBJECT and his wife just three years or since the time they moved into the building, three years ago this month. She stated that she liked than very much and knew of no finer people. They are respected in the community and are quiet and con- servative. SUBJECT neither drinks or carouses and is a "hobody", except that he plays a great deal of golf with her husband. In formant stated that SUBJECT's son Ed is presently with SUBJECT coming here from West Virginia for the arrival of their newborn youngster. She added that SUBJECT has a fine poistion with the Research Foundation as Assistant Director, and is a thorough American.

REFERENCES:

et Columbus, Ohio:

On 3 April 1952, Mrs Harvey BROWER, 2268 Summit Street, stated that she purchased the premises on which she now resides, from SUBJECT about twelve years ago and although she did not know the ----- family except for the real-estate transaction, she had heard many good things about them from neighbors that used to li

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Case No: 67378

# SECRET

8 April 1952

In this part of the community. She stated that everyone seemed to have a good word for both SUBEJET and his wife and she knew of nothing derogatory in the regard. She added that yrs John MONROE, 2262 Summit Street, knew the SUBJECT and his wife,

On 3 April 1952, Mrs John MONROE, was interviewed and stated that she had known the SUBJECT's wife since they were younsters living in Hilliard, Ohio and that she has known SUBJECT since he and his wife married nearly thirty years ago. The -----'s vere wonderful people and well thought of by everyone. SUBJECT was formerly employed by Arch Alder's Chevrolet Gagage in Hilliard, Ohio after which he returned to Ohio State University. He was later e ployed by O.S.U. in some capatity, becoming Assistant Director of the Research Foundation. Informant suggested another person that was acquainted with the -----'8, Mrs Harry MYERS, 6500 Dublin Road, north of Columbus, Ohio.

On 3 April 1952, Mrs Harry MYERS, was interviewed and stated that she had known the ----- and that they were very close friends. She knew of nothing derogatory regarding SUBJECT and stated that she considered the ----- family as the highest type of people. SUBJECT' son, Ed, is engaged in some type of Engin eering work, believed to be in Detroit, Michigan

## AGENTS NOTE:

It was determined that Arch Adler, SUBJECT's former employer. and personally known to the writer, is presently confined to a hospital and not available for interview.

Forman ARMENTROUT, Manager, Alder's Garage, Hilliard, Ohio stated that SUBJECT was the best mechanic they had ever had in the garage. Informant stated that he has heard Mr. Adler make this statement many times since SUBJECT left in 1937. He further stated that SUBJECT and his wife had a fine reputation and were patriotic Americans. Informant had attended high school with SUBJECT's son Ed, whom he described as a first rate fellow, who displayed that he came from good people.

## CREDIT AND CREDIT REFERENCES:

At Columbus, Ohios

The records of the Ohio Credit Bureau, 83 S. 4th Street, examined on 7 February 1952, revealed that SUBJECT arried Helen

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

Case No: 67378 8 April 1752

B. in Hilliards, Ohio; that he has worked for Alder's Garage in Hilliards until about 1927; that he had been hurt and collected a claim from the Ohio Industrial Commission; further that he went to Ohio State University and graduated with a B.S.C. degree in 1939 and then went on the payroll of O.S.U. in December 1939. Presently Assistant Director of the 0.5.0. Fesearch Foundation, and prior to this was Assistant Fraternity Auditer. Further, in 1919 he had financed an automobile through General Motors with a mortgage of $49.00 which is prompt; that his credit rating is good, nothing against him and most purchases are for cash.

POLICE (CRIMINAL AND SUBVERSIVE) RECOPDS:

At Columbus, Ohio:

The records of the Columbus Police Department, on 7 February 1952, failed to reveal any information on SUBJECT. The files of the Ohio Un-American Activities Commission were examined on a April 1952 and failed to reveal any information on SUBJECT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

SECRET

TO : Assistant Director for Special Operations

ATTENTION: Staff J

FROM : Chief, Special Security Division

SUBJECT: PZ 2359
#67378

1.  Reference is made to your request dated 27 December 1951 for a recommendation as to whether an Operational Clearance should be granted to permit the Subject's use as cover in Europe under cover of present employment.

2.  The attached information regarding the Subject is furnished to you as an aid in determining whether or not the Subject should be used under the authority of an Operational Clearance in the capacity set forth in your request.

3.  This memorandum pertains only to the assignment mentioned in Paragraph 1 above. It is requested that this office be informed of your decision as to whether you intend to use the Subject. If the Subject is not used, the attached material should be returned to the writer in a sealed envelope marked "Eyes Only," indicating the reasons for not using the Subject.

Attachments:

MOD 2/19/52

Inv. rpt. 3/8/52

Biog. Data

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA:

ROBERT H. CUNNINGHAM

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

To:
Attn: Chief, Special Security Division
W. Clayton
FR No: STC SB 700
SUBJECT: PZ-2359

1. The following biographical data is available on Subjects:

Thomas Edgar Davis
1596 Neil Avenue
Columbus, Ohio

Acting Head of Research, Ohio State University
Research Foundation

BSC in Business Administration 1939 Ohio State U.

1939-1942 Assistant Auditor, Dean's Office

Since 1942 has been Assistant to Director
Research Foundation.

2. Date of Birth will be forwarded as soon as received.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET

## SECRET
COVERT NAME CHECK REPORT

DATE: 19 February 1952

SUBJECT: T.E.D. 67378 00 050

In accordance with your request, a covert name check was conducted on Subject with results as indicated below:

| AGENCY               | RETURN | DATE |
| -------------------- | ------ | ---- |
| G-2                  | SA     | 2/6  |
| OSI                  | NR     | 2/19 |
| STATE(Less Passport) | NR     | 2/11 |
| FBI                  | -      | 2/13 |
| CSC                  | NR     | 2/12 |
| HCUA                 | NR     | 2/6  |
| OSI                  | NR     | 2/5  |
| PASSPORT             | NR     | 2/13 |
| I&N                  |        |      |

*   10/12/50 - Investigation revealed nothing derogatory regarding Subject's character, reputation, employment, neighborhood, and associates.

This data is property of Inspection and Security Office, to be returned when subject is no longer covertly used. Its existence or contents must not be disclosed except to CIA Staff Officers directly concerned

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

P2-2354p 1987

FBI-CPENA - Ot50 Unting Drag.

051-NR

ONI-NR

15 Feb 52

Talkelt
Bill on 22

Collel Osborne
gave secrety
will cleck

Called Clayton
4:10. to follo to there
goong Mill let em
Middle was plill
Couldy
Show sooneet the
holay it all the

Called
Clay ton
Called
23

19 Jan 1903

nary Wellsion, duo

Q cleara
144 6514
Feb49.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

To: Chief, Special Security Division
Attn: Mr. Clayton
FROM: STC SFB
SUBJECT: PZ-2359

1.  The following biographical data is available on Subjects:

Thomas Edgar Davis
1596 Neil Avenue
Columbus, Ohio

Acting Head of Research, Ohio State University
Research Foundation

BSC in Business Administration 1939 Ohio State U.

1939-1942 Assistant Auditor, Dean's Office

Since 1942 has been Assistant to Director
Research Foundation.

2.  Date of Birth will be forwarded as soon as received.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Be the first from Osborne 11-2.58
Birth date pittito come.

Thomas Edgar Davis
1596 Neil Avenue
Columbus, Ohio
Act Head of Research
OSU Research
Foundation
BSC - Bus adm. 1939
Ohio State U.
1939-1942 Asst auditor
Dean's office
Has been asst to Director
Research Foundation 1942


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

TO: Chief, Special Security Division

Attn: Mr. Clayton

FROM: STC/SPB

Thomas E. Davis **

SUBJECT: James E. Owens, Director, Ohio State Date 27 December 1951

University Research Foundation P.Z. # 2359

EE-742-AD

A. DEADLINE: (1) (2) (3) (4) (5)

B. CHARACTER OF CASE: (1)O.C. (2)P.O.C. (3)C.N.C. (4)C.S.C. (5)P.

C. CLASSIFICATION: Agent Clerical Service Other Cover

D. AREA: Europe Middle East Far East Latin America Specific

E. SUBJECT'S COVER: U.S. Govt. For. Govt. Academic

Commercial Religious Professional Pres. Empl. x

Undesignated Other

F. ACTION: Investigation, including covert name checks x

Covert name checks only

Development of biographic data

Reply as soon as possible re I&S check FBI check Other

Special name checks

G. SUGGESTED COVER FOR INVESTIGATION:

General U.S. Government interest

Non-government, commercial interest x

Special

H. The chief of the interested Division has certified that OSO operational files and documents contain no information of investigative or security interest in addition to that set forth in PRQ I and II. (Reviewed by):

I. Please return attached PRQ Part I PHS 57's Biog.Data with result of your action.

Biographic Data is contained IN EE-742-AD

OO has granted a release for subject's use by the Division,

*per telephone conversation McMahan/Clayton 29 Dec 51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Tom.

Pls. make paper changes
t replace Owens with Davis in
this action because Owens resigned
his position and Davis has taken his
place. I have orally done this with
R. Clayton 108 - 29 Dec 51. All paper
should be returned to Osborn of Plans Staff
when new papers have been initiated.

Mr. Mr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

CS-1124 (Caborn)
Priority
21 December 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, STC/BPB

FROM: Chief, PLANS

SUBJECT: Request for Operational Clearance on James S. Owens, Director, Ohio State University Research Foundation

1. With reference to the conversation between Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Osborn on 20 December 1951, it is requested that action be taken to secure provisional operational clearance on Dr. James S. Owens, Director, Ohio State University Research Foundation.

2. Subject to successful clearance, it is planned to have a representative of FDW contact Dr. Owens through an appointment arranged by CO to determine if he would be willing to prepare a letter from the Foundation to the American-Scandanavian Foundation in New York. The content of this letter would introduce and sponsor financially an agent whom FDW has arranged to send to one of the Scandinavian countries under sponsorship of the American-Scandanavian Foundation.

3. Dr. Owens and his assistant, Thomas E. Davis, already possess a CIA clearance up to and including "Secret" in connection with a classified CIA project being carried out by the Mapping and Charting Laboratory of the Foundation. The O.S.U. Research Foundation has a considerable unclassified program, however, and its connection with CIA is not publicly known. It is understood that Mr. Harris Lyons, SASS, has all the details concerning the clearances on Dr. Owens and Mr. Davis.

4. FDW is extremely anxious to complete these arrangements, and it would be appreciated if you would treat this request as a priority matter.

CC: FW/Barringer

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

OFFICE MESSAGE

ΒΑΝΣ (PERSON CALLING

BA PERSON
TELEPHONE

A. M.

DISKEGERD

RETURNED YOUR CALL
WILL CALL AGAI
ALASE CALL

BEMAKS:
Pleen write upa
POC. Fue athend
teleghand the to
Osforme on sen.

RECEIVED BY

FORM NO. 36-9
SEP 1946

---

Dr. Owens

cross EE-742-AD

HCUA
ESC

FBI-NCI

ORUE
G-2

2/1987 ment


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM: Chief, PLANS

| TO         | ROOM NO. | DATE RECD         | DATE FWD | OFFICER'S INITIALS | DATE        | COMMENTS                                                         |
| ---------- | -------- | ----------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ----------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. STC/SPB |          | Entered 26 Dec 51 |          |                    | 21 Dec 1951 | BY HAND ONLY                                                     |
| 2.         |          |                   |          |                    |             | Clayton checking to find proper US hist. Cobronk not dys (??)    |
| 3.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 4.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 5.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 6.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 7.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 8.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 9.         |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 10.        |          |                   |          |                    |             | POC 1541 of 27 Dec 57                                            |
| 11.        |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 12.        |          |                   |          |                    |             | OS borne states they have clearance from OO to use now 27 Dec 57 |
| 13.        |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 14.        |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |
| 15.        |          |                   |          |                    |             |                                                                  |

FORM NO. 81-10

FEB 1950

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

CS-1124 (Osborn)
Friority
21 December 1951

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, STC/SPB

FROM:
Ju Chief, PLANSHS

SUBJECT: Request for Operational Clearance on Jenes S. Owens, Director, Ohio State University Research Foundation

1.  With reference to the conversation between Mr. Kaufman and Mr. Osborn on 20 December 1951, it is requested that action be taken to secure provisional operational clearance on Dr. James S. Owens, Director, Ohio State University Research Foundation.

2.  Subject to successful clearance, it is planned to have a representative of FDW contact Dr. Ovens through an appointment arranged by 00 to determine if he would be willing to prepare a letter from the Foundation to the American-Scandanavian Foundation in New York. The content of this letter would introduce and sponsor financially an agent whon FDI has arranged to send to one of the Scandanavian countries under sponsorship of the American-Scandanavian Foundation.

3.  Dr. Ovens and his assistant, Thomas E. Davis, already possess a CIA clearance up to and including "Secret" in connection with a classified CIA project being carried out by the Mapping and Charting Laboratory of the Foundation. The 0.8.U. Research Foundation has a considerable unclassified program, however, and its connection with CIA is not publicly known. It is understood that Mr. Harris Lyons, 1488, has all the details concerning the clearances on Dr. Ovens and Mr. Davis.

4.  DV is extremely anxious to complete these arrangements, and it would be appreciated if you would treas this request as a priority mattor.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

SUPPORT AND PROTECTION BRANCH
Operational clearness: Sheet

SPB File No. 1987

Name: EMBASS DAVIS, Thomas E.
(Real, Pseudo or Crypto)

(check)
Project Reviewed (date)
EFF 25 JANSV
Division Traces
Set. FEB 2 1952 1763 MAY 7 1952
Operational Clearance 2362
Of Files
Green List
Staff C
Local Field Traces
Operation Reviewed
Other Field Traces
I&S Indices JAN15 Jan 52
I&S Covert Report see vol: felgeba cws.
I&S Investigation
Bioig data

PRQ II

Checked w/JAK lying, thinks it
In such a hurry would be
Astone set all rey apt
Au Fo auth Q
ORAEL
See Dils Free T
Newy to be
Boine
Called them
Cornellis omne
Concrete develop
Poa 20 Jrg


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)