2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ASSIFIR MESSAGE

SECRET

MEXICO CITY
WH/SA 8

VI. FILE DDP, WH7, S1/1PS, C/142

S E C R E T 0321302

865 IN56516

DIR CITE MEXI 2126

TYPIC LICRAFT

PEF DIR 75551

1, FOLLOWING FROM LICRAFT-1: JOAQUIN MIRABAL IS NOT BROTHER OF *Alfredo MiRABAL D'AZ*
FORMER CONSUL MEXI, HAS ONLY ONE SIBLING, SISTER. OFFICIAL TITLE IS DELEGADO DEL MINISTRO DEL INTERIOR EN LA PROVINCIA DE LA MACANA.

HAS AUTHORITY REPRESENT RAMIRO VALDES, ENTER ANY SECURITY OFFICE IN HABANA PROVINCE, ISSUE CEDERS UNDER VALDES AUTHORITY SEARC ARMY CAPTAINS UNIFORM AND INSIGNIA. IN 1951 VAS SECCID IN COMMAND OF G 2 HOS AT QUINTA AVENIDA AND CALLE 14. MAN IN COMMAND THEN IS NOW POLICE CHIEF HABANA.

2. MIRABAL CLOSE FIREND. VALDES SINCE LONG BEFORE CASTRO TAKEOVER. IS FROM HABANA. MOTHER REPORTED TO BE CO TIME COMMUNIST FAMILY HOME WAS ON CALLE COSS, VIBORA, HABANA. IS ABOUT 35 YEARS OLD LICRAFT.

FIRST MET IN 1957 AT WHICH TIME MIRABAL WAS CUSTOMS AGENT IN HASANA WORKING FOR UNCLE ALSO NAMED MIRASAL. FIRM HAD SEARS ROEBUCK ACCOUNT, MAY HAVE HAD WOOLWORTH ACCOUNT. MIRABAL ADMITTED TO LICRAFT TH THE WAS MAKING LOTS OF MONEY SHUGGLING LIQUOR. PRICE TO 57 HAD HAD A FLING PAS POPULAR SINGER, WAS VERY GOOD VOICE VAS VERT, FRIENDLY WITH GUSTAVO
S


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

IN 56516.

CIATES THIS PERIOD WERE SUSPECT HOW MALA?

LICRAFT TO VISIT BAR JUST ESTABLISHED IN 5033. APPARENT PLACE WAS HOMOSEXUAL BAND ?

3. AFTER CASTRO TAKEOVER MIRABAL WAS ASSIGNED AS CUSTOMS AGENT HABANA PORT, LATER WAS ASSIGNED TO AIRPORT. WAS IN SECURITY WORK AT LEAST BY 1950, PERHAPS EARLIER. VERY CLOSE FRIEND OF LABOR MINISTER MARTINEZ SANCHEZ WIFE WORKED FOR MARTINEZ SANCHEZ

4. "CHICAGO" INFORMANT OF LICRAFT IS MRS. ALBERT RECIO. 705 WELL STREET, GARY, INDIANA, PHONE 938-5355. SHE IS SISTER OF MIRABAL. WIFE, DISLIKES MIRABAL INTENSELY BUT DOES NOT WISH ANY HARM TO COME
   08 TO HER SISTER WOULD BE COOPERATIVE IF APPROACHED AFTER ALERTING.
   PHONE CALL FROM LICRAFT. NEW YORK INFORMANT IS [VENITA GARCIA
   FRIEND OF MRS. RECIO AND OF LOCRAFT, USED TO HAVE SENORITA
   THAT USED BY LICRAFT. LICRAFT WILL OBTAIN HER PRESENT ADDRESS

5. SUGGEST HOS ARRANGE TO INTERVIEW MRS. RECIO NOT REVEAL LICRAFT PHONES HER. PLS CABLE NAME TO BE USED BY INTERVIEWING OFFICER.

6. LICRAFT WILL PREPARE STUDY ON MIRABAL. PLS CABLE SPECIFIC POINTS WISH COVERED.

SECRET

5/BR


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)