# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![message form total copies]
SECRET

Robert Bladergroen:new
7331
Date: 30 June 1967 R-1835

Cable Secretariat Dissemination

By: 15

Cola: OGC 2

![routing and/or comment]

![index] INDEX ![destroy] DESTROY ![rs] RS Branch ![file bid] FILE BID

![no index] NO INDEX ![file in cs file no] FILE IN CS FILE NO 201-300985 EC

![difon] DIFON File V2

C/WH/COG 5, C/WH 6

(classification)

SECRET

To: PRIORITY JEWAVE

KAPOK TYPIC

AXCLEVE-15

REF DIRECTOR 15805

clci. ADEP

30 15 49FZ

Cite Director: 5915

1. REQUEST STATION TRACES ALBERT LARRAIN MAESTRE.

2. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE ADVISES HE A FUGITIVE UNDER NARCOTICS
   INDICTMENT AND ALLEGEDLY ADMITTED TO ANCLEVE-15 HIS INVOLVEMENT IN
   BOMBINGS WITH ROSENTHAL. REQUEST STATION COMMENT ANCLEVE-15 EVER
   RECEIVE SUCH ADMISSION FROM LARRAIN MAESTRE.

3. NO HQS TRACES.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of william v. bros]
William V. Bros
C/WHD

![signature of earl j. williamson]
Earl J. Williamson
AC/WH/COG

Releasing Officer

Coordinating Officers

SECRET

![Group 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

Reproduction by other than the issuing office is prohibited.

Authenticating Officer

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

INDEX: OVES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILL BIO RET. TO BRANCH.
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTION
C/WH/2005 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY

INFO
FILE OR CSDO, C/WHG, C/CI, Cr. ?, ADDP

SECRET 302022Z CITE JMWAVE 7953
PRIORITY DIRECTOR

ΚΑΡΟΚ ΤΥPIC AMCLEVE/15

REFERENCE: A. DIRECTOR 15805
B. DIRECTOR 15915

1. ANSWERS KEYED TO QUESTIONS IN REF A AS FOLLOWS:

A. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT VOLUNTEER SELF TO LOCAL
FBI. HE DID REPORT TO JMWAVE, WHICH IN TURN INFORMED FBI.
FBI THEN APPROACHED AMCLEVE/15 ON THEIR OWN DURING LATE
JULY 65 AND QUESTIONED HIM ABOUT JULY 65 DEAL.

B&C. JMWAVE INFORMED FBI ON 24 JULY 65 (SEE A
ABOVE)

D. SINCE AMCLEVE/15 FAILED TO REPORT OCT 66
TRANSACTION TO JMWAVE UNTIL 9 JUNE 67, FBI NOT NOTIFIED
UNTIL 15 JUNE 67. CAMCLEVE/15'S EXPLANATION FOR NOT
REPORTING OCT 66 TRANSACTION WAS THAT HE "JUST FORGOT")

E. SEE PARA 2 BELOW.

F. SOURCES WERE LOCATED IN THE MIAMI AREA ONLY.

G. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE DID NOT RECEIVE ANY ΜΟΝΕΥ
FOR OCT 66 TRANSACTION; ONLY MONEY AMCLEVE/15 EVER REPORTED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET
PAGE 2 JMWAVE 7953 SECRET

RECEIVING WAS $500 FROM ROSENTHAL DURING JULY 65.

ROSENTHAL HAD INSISTED AMCLEVE/15 TAKE $500; TO AVOID ANY ROSENTHAL SUSPICION OF AMCLEVE/15, LATTER WAS INSTRUCTED BY JMWAVE TO TAKE THE MONEY. AMCLEVE/15 WAS ALLOWED BY STATION TO KEEP THE $500.

2. AMCLEVE/15 UNABLE TO RECALL ALL DETAILS OF JULY 65 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15 CLAIMS HE ONLY PASSED TO DIEGO (BORGES) TORRES (201-254161) 6 GRENADES WHICH AMCLEVE/15 OBTAINED FROM HERMINIO DIAZ) SANDALIO (201-203040). BORGES IN TURN PASSED THEM TO ROSENTHAL. (BORGES AND NORMAN ROTHMAN WERE ACTING AS AGENTS FOR ROSENTHAL).

FRANCISCO (RODRIGUEZ) TAMAYO (201-293114) MADE SILENCERS. RODRIGUEZ AND AMCLEVE/15 JOINTLY DELIVERED THEM TO BORGES.

JMWAVE RECORDS DO NOT SHOW WHERE DIAZ OBTAINED THE GRENADES.

3. AS REPORTED IN REF AMCLEVE/15 IS CURRENTLY WORKING WITH THE FBI AND FOLLOWING THEIR INSTRUCTIONS RE ROSENTHAL.

4. RE REF

PARA 4

"AMCLEVE/15 REPORTED LARRAIN INFO TO FBI AND TO JMWAVE ON 27 JUNE 67 STATING, HOWEVER THAT IT WAS ONE DOMINGO (CHEMENDIA) ESCALANTE (201-297940) WHO HAD SAID THAT"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

PAGE.
D-83 3 JMWAVE 7953 SECRET
OF BOMBINGS AND ROTHMAN WAS THE BOSS.

5. WOULD APPEAR HQS JUSTICE QUERIES BASED ON FBI REPORTING FROM MIAMI. WOULD IT BE OF ANY HELP IF WE GOT TOGETHER WITH BUREAU HERE TO RESOLVE IN LOCO (INFO HQS) ANY FURTHER QUESTIONS?

SECRET

BT

* PORTION GARALED BEING SUCD

SECRET

NNNN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC AMCLEVE/15 Contact with Frank "Lefty" ROSENTHAL

Reference: JMWAVE-7900, 27 June 1967.

Transmitted under separate cover per reference are copies of three JMWAVE memoranda to the FBI dated 24 July and 11 August 1965, and 15 June 1967. Subject: Procurement of Arms and Munitions by American Group.

Gary L. FLUSTIKOFF

Attachments - USC Memos (3)

Distribution: 8/- WH/COG

---

File is 14-2-4

UFCA-27903

JUN 3 0 1967
29 June 1967

19-133-5-192/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

R.A. Ortman:jeb
WH/COG/HO
7451
29-June-1067-

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

201-300985
c/l, cc.cz, c/WH6

CITE DIRECTOR 15805

TO JMWAVE 29 23 07 Z
PRIORITYKAPOK TYPIC AMCLEVE/15

REF: JMWAVE 7900 (GW 00397)

1. FOLLOWING QUERIES FROM JUSTICE DEPARTMENT HAVE EMERGED FROM MEETINGS WITH OFFICE GENERAL COUNSEL. REQUEST REPLIES SOONEST.

A. DID AMCLEVE/15 VOLUNTEER HIMSELF TO LNERGO OR DID THEY APPROACH HIM INITIALLY. DATE FIRST AMCLEVE/15 CONTACT LNERGO.

B. WHO INFORMED LNERGO OF JULY 1965 DEAL. AMCLEVE/15 OR JMWAVE.

C. ON WHAT DATE WAS LNERGO INFORMED.

D. SAME INFO B AND C ABOVE FOR OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION.

E. WHAT WERE AMCLEVE/15'S SOURCES FOR ITEMS OR COMPONENTS.

F. WERE THOSE SOURCES WITHIN OR WITHOUT STATE OF FLORIDA.

G. JUSTICE HAS INFO TO EFFECT THAT AMCLEVE/15 MADE PROFIT ON OCTOBER 1966 TRANSACTION WHICH HE ATTEMPTED TURN IN

-CONTINUED-

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE BID

NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

RIO COPY INFO FILE VI

PAGE TWO

CITE DIRECTOR 15805

1. TO "THE COMPANY" WITHOUT SUCCESS. PLEASE COMMENT.

2. ALSO PLEASE ELABORATE ON STATEMENT PARA 2 REF THAT "PER
   JMWAVE INSTRUCTIONS AMCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND
   ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING SILENCERS AND
   GERNADES."

3. JUSTICE HAS SUGGESTED POSSIBILITY USE AMCLEVE/15 TO ASSIST
   ROSENTHAL OBTAIN ADDITIONAL MATERIAL AS BASIS FOR ARREST OF
   ROSENTHAL FOR HAVING POSSESSION OF SUCH MATERIALS. APPRECIATE
   JMWAVE COMMENTS.

END OF MESSAGE

OGC Mr. Bladergroen (draft)
C/WH/COG/CICS Mr. Mahoney (draft)

Earl J. Williamson
AC/WH/COG

William V. Broe
C/WHD

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY IER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS P.MITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

INDERIO VES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 201-254/11/CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
B-PER TO FILE NO.
SECRET
DESTROY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION

INFO
FILE

SECRET 272015Z CITE JMHAVE 7900

PRIORITY DIRECTOR
DESENSITIZED
KAPOK TYPIC ANCLEAVE/15

REF DIRECTOR 14671

1. ANCLEVE/15 CURRENTLY COOPERATING WITH LOCAL
   FBI IN INVESTIGATION OF FRANK "LEFTY" ROSENTHAL.

2. ANCLEVE/15 INITIALLY BECAME INVOLVED WITH
   ROSENTHAL IN JULY 65 WHEN DIEGO ENILIANO (BORGES authorized:
   TORRES (201-284161) INTRODUCED HIM TO ROSENTHAL AND
   NORMAN ROTHMAN. (BORGES WAS AGENT FOR ROSENTHAL
   IN PURCHASE OF WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES). PER JMHAVE.

INSTRUCTIONS AMCLEVE/15 COOPERATED WITH BORGES AND
ROSENTHAL BY ACTING AS INTERMEDIARY IN PASSING
SILENCERS AND GRANADES FROM HERMINIO (DIAZ)
SANDALIO (201-203040, AND FRANCISCO RODRIGUE
TAMAYO (201-293114) TO BORGES WHO IN TURN PASSED
THE MATERIAL TO ROSENTHAL.

3. LOCAL FBI WAS NOTIFIED AT THE LINE PUT
   AFTER ABOUT ONE WEEK JMHAVE INSTRUCTED ANCLEAVE/15
   TO WITHDRAW HAVING DISCOVERED THAT GROUP WITH WHICH.

![records officer stamp]

![abstract and index stamps]

201-284161
28 June '67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

PAGE 2 JMVAVE 7988 SECRET

HE WAS IN CONTACT WAS COMPOSED OF GANGSTER ELEMENTS.

4. FROM JULY & TO CIRCA OCT 66 AMCLEVE/15 NOT INVOLVED VITH ROSENTHAL ALTHOUGH AT VARIOUS IIMES ROSENTHAL CALLED ANCLEVE/15 AND ASKED HIS HELP OBTAIN WEAPONS AND EXPLOSIVES WHICH AMCLEVE/15 REFUSED. AROUND OCT 66 ROSENTHAL CONTACTED AMCLEVE/15 AT LATTERS RESIDENCE AND THREATENED HIM BECAUSE EQUIPMENT SUPPLIED BY BORGES TO ROSENTHAL WAS FAULTY. ANCLEVE/15 THEN MADE AND GAVE ROSENTHAL 120 PENCILS AND 50 FUSE DEVICES WHICH SEEMED TO SATISFY ROSENT HAL.

5. AMCLEVE/15 DID NOT REPORT PARA FOUR ABOVE TO JMWAVE UNT IL 9 JUNE 67 AFTER ROSENT HAL HAD A GA IN CONTACTED HIN ON 6 JUNE 67, THREATENED HIM AND ASKED HIM FOR MORE EQUIPMENT. LOCAL FBI WAS ADVISED BY JNWAVE ON 15 JUNE 67 OF AMCLEVE/15 ROSENTHAL CONTACTS OF OCT 66 AND 6 JUNE 67.

6. AS REPORTED IN PARA 3 OF REF AMCLEVE/15 CURRENTLY TRYING TO SUPPLY ROSENTHAL UNDER INSTRUCTIONS LOCAL FBI. FBI HAS PROMISED MAXIMUM SECURITY AND


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

PAGE 3 JMWAVE 1920 SECRET

PROTECTION FOR ANCLEVE/15. FBI HAS NOT NOTIFIED LOCAL
POLICE DUE POSSIBILITY POLICE PENETRATED BY GANGSTER
ELEKENT.

7. ANCLEVE/15 CLAIMS NONE OF MATERIAL PREVIOUSLY
   SUPPLIED ROSENTHAL WAS OF WOFACI ORIGIN; HE ALSO CLAIMS HE
   NEVER SUPPLIED ROSENTHAL WITH C-4 EXPLOSIVES.

8. NO ADDITIONAL JMWAVE INFO ROSENTHAL AND
   ROTHMAN. NO OPS INTEREST BORGES RODRIGUEZ. DIAZ
   DECEASED.

9. POUCHING NOS COPIES OF JMWAVE MEMOS TO FBI
   UFGA-27888.

SECRET

BT

201-25416
25ume 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

28 June 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Luis Clements POSADA-Carriles

REFERENCES: a. Memo for Record, 26 June 1967, by LRH, same subject
b. Williamson/Henze Telephone Conversation, 28 June 1967

1. In my meeting with the Department of Justice today, I confirmed that POSADA-Carriles was our man. I outlined the pre- liminary information we had developed on the transactions between him and one Lefty Rosenthal.

2. Justice was advised that our information disclosed that POSADA-Carriles had passed *silencers* and *grenades* to Rosenthal during July 1965, and that in October 1966 he had furnished pencils and fuses. I also stated that it was our understanding that POSADA- Carriles was in contact with FDI/Miami and that it had been advised of these dealings. Justice was told that the items involved were not of Agency origin. It was emphasized, however, that this was our preliminary conclusion and that we would undertake to verify it.

3. Justice acknowledged that FBI reporting disclosed POSADA-Carriles as its contact but apparently the details are some- what vague. To make a federal case against Rosenthal because of his suspected involvement in the bombings, it will be necessary to show that the items used were obtained through interstate commerce. A preliminary reading suggests prosecution under Title 18 Section 837. Out of concern for the allegation of entrapment, Justice asked that


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

we supply answers to the following: (a) did POSADA-Carriles volunteer himself to the FBI or did it approach him initially; (b) who informed the FBI of the July 1965 deal - the Agency or POSADA-Carriles; (c) on what date was this information given; (d) similarly as regards the October 1966 transaction, the date the information furnished and by whom; (e) what were POSADA-Carriles sources for the items or their components; (f) were these sources within or without the State of Florida? And incidentally were we aware that supposedly POSADA-Carriles realized a "profit" for furnishing the October 1966 items and that he tried without success to turn it into the "company"? While I agreed to undertake to obtain the information requested, I suggested that much of it might be readily available from the FBI. Justice conceded this and intenia to have further discussions with it.

4. Daring the course of the meeting the interesting hypothesis was suggested to the effect that POSADA-Carriles might have been "moonlighting" for Rosenthal, and only when he began to feel the pressure did he start reporting to the Agency and the FBI.

5. Under strictly controlled conditions with POSADA-Carriles acting as a conduit, Justice is considering the possibility of assisting Rosenthal to obtain his needed items, whereupon he will be arrested immediately for possession. I told them while we might be willing to have POSADA-Carriles so used we were understandably concerned over the adverse comment that our employee's involvement could generate.

6. On a matter that may be related: one Albert LARRAIN Maestre is alleged to have admitted to POSADA-Carriles that he has been involved in the bombings with Rosenthal and to have said more axplosives were needed. LARRAIN Maestre is a fugitive under a narcotics endictment having formerly resided at 153 East 57th Street, New York, New York. Do we have any information on this person?

ROBERT J. BLADERGROEN
Assistant General Counsel

OGC:RJB:mej
Distribution:
Original

1. Subject
2. Signer
3. Chromo


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

WI IAIMSON NOTES ON
28 JUNE TELECON W. HENZE

AMCLEVE
15 currently cooperaing FRI

Became involed R July 65

On station instructions coopérated as intermediary in passing stuff--silencers and grenades--at that FBI informed

Instructed to withdraw

Until Oct 66 -- was threatened -- asked to wake or obtain

At this point he made certain things 150 pencils. Did not tell station until fairly récently

Then put in touch with LNERGO 6 June told 9 June told FBI 15 June

$350.00

FBI man called up north

15 wants their assistance "to disappear"

Probably not losing a great deal


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

28 June 1967

NOTE FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Telephone Conversation - William.son/Hense, 1015 hours,
-28 June 1967

1.  Station reply sent 1640 hours 27 June (JMWAVE 7900).

2.  AMCLEVE/15 currently on Station roles at $350 per month. He has been cooperating with FBI.

3.  During July 1965, 15 introduced to Rosenthal by third party. On Station instructions he cooperated with Rosenthal acting as intermediary in passing to him silencers and grenades. FBI informed.

4.  In accordance with Station instructions, 15 broke off contact with Rosenthal.

5.  On October 1966, 15 recontacted by Rosenthal. Rosenthal demanded he make or obtain additional items threatening him with bodily harm and also complaining previous items faulty. Whereupon 15 furnished Rosenthal 150 pencils and some fuses. Station only recently advised of this transaction and 15 put in contact with FBI.

6.  Items furnished July 1965 and October 1966 transactions not Agency origin.

7.  On 6 June, 15 again contacted by Rosenthal.

8.  On 9 June, 15 reported Rosenthal contact to Station.

9.  On 15 June, Station advised FBI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

10. IS wants Station assistance in doing a disappearing act.

11. 15's FBI contact now in Washington for discussions re this case.

12. Re proposal para 3 DIR 14671, Henne's immediato reaction this probably-OK and we not using much but would want to check it further.

![signature]ROBERT J. BLADERGROEN
Assistant General Consel

![text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

ola Fobert Ortmap:now
UNIT: WH/COG/NO
INFO: 7451/1948
DATE: 26 Juno 1967

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMIΝΑΓΙΟΝ

CONF:

C/WH/COGS

MISSACE FORM
TOTAL COPIES 22

SECRET

RID COPY

INDEX DESIPOV BETUE 10
NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO.

FILE va c/WH, c/a, c/FI7, c/F/INT

DDP, ADAP, OGC2

[PRIORITY JMWAVE

RYBAT AMCLEVE-15

IMMEDIATE HANDLING

27 00 00 Z

CITE DIRECTOR 14671

1. DEPARTMENT JUSTICE INVESTIGATING ONE LEFTY ROSENTHAL BELIEVED TIED IN WITH MIAMI CRIME FIGURES AND INVOLVED IN SEVEN RECENT BOMBINGS MIAMI AREA.

2. ROSENTHAL ALLEGEDLY APPROACHED U.S. CITIZEN NORMAN ROTHMAN IN DOMREP WHO PUT HIM IN TOUCH AMCLEVE-15 WHOM ROSENTHAL KNOWS TO BE AFFILIATED WOFACT. ROSENTHAL CLAIMS AMCLEVE-15 SUPPLIED HIM WITH CAPS PRIMERS AND C-4 EXPLOSIVES ALSO CLAIMS OFFERED TO DISCUSS BACKGROUND BOMBINGS, WHO INVOLVED, AND WHY, WITH AMCLEVE-15 BUT LATTER INDICATED NO INTEREST.

3. ROSENTHAL REPORTEDLY ASKING AMCLEVE-15 TO SUPPLY 240 POUNDS C-4 WITH CAPS AND PRIMERS BY 1 JULY 67.

4. LOCAL POLICE INVESTIGATING SEVEN BOMBINGS BUT NOT AWARE FOREGOING DETAILS RELATIVE AMCLEVE-15.

5. APPRECIATE PRIORITY COMMENTS INCLUDING MONEY ANY POSSIBILITY MATERIAL GIVEN ROSENTHAL COULD BE WOFACT ORIGIN.

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

PAGE TWO

6. PREFER NO DISCUSSION WITH LOCAL LNERGO AT THIS TIME.

7. NO IDENTIFIABLE HQS TRACES ROSENTHAL. NUMEROUS LNERGO REPORTS CITE ROTHMAN FOR GAMBLING, GUN RUNNING AND OTHER SHADY ACTIVITIES IN U.S., CUBA AND MEXICO INCLUDING EFFORTS ESTABLISH ANTI-CASTRO BASE IN YUCATAN.

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# 26 June 1967

## MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Luis Clemente POSADA-Carriles

1. The Department of Justice has been investigating one Lefty Rosenthal whom they believe to be tied in with key members of organised crime in the Miami area and who also they believe has been involved in seven recent bombings in the Miami area. According to the information the Department has gotten so far, Rosenthal went to a United States citizen named Norman Rothman in the Dominican Republic and through him directly or indirectly through a person known as Diego, Rosenthal was put in touch with Luis Clemente Posada-Carriles, Allen Registration Number A-12419708, 263 S. W. 26th Street, Miami. Rosenthal understands that Posada-Carriles is attached to CIA and claims that Posada-Carriles supplied him with caps, primers and C-4 explosives. Rosenthal is reported to have offered to talk to Posada-Carriles about the background of the bombings and who was involved and why, but Posada-Carriles said he had no interest in the background.

2. Rosenthel is reported to be asking Posada-Corrilee to supply 240 pounds of C-4 explosives with caps and primers by Saturday and has told Posada-Carriles that twenty more bombings are scheduled. The local police are investigating the seven bombings whien have taken place and do not know this other background material.

3. Justice would very much like to have Rosenthal prosecuted and accordingly would like to have the explosives delivered to Rosenthal but to have 99% of it faulty and have the state prosecute him on the possession of the 1% of valid explosives. The Justice Department has a report from the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Bureau's Security Scusad reporting to the Bureau's Organised Crime Division which states that Fosada-Carriles la a CIA Agent la a GS status.

LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Luis Posada caιιίευ

2 Feb 61 to Mexico, entered US 22 Feb 61 as
evile from Argentins suita

18 april 61 Loquat for 2500 license of

27 april 61 ret to US via guantanamo

Dec 64 gunncion in/v Venus based Puerto Rico

Target was raid on Oriente

1964-65 Rande Bermengo

Mar 63-mar 64 Fort Benning, ga-2nd Lt

May 64 in Fort Cty Ga as division at fers time

April 65 employed by JM/WAVE instructor in
Martine hammering, information Aleps-quat


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, London

Chief, Parents in Division

Chief of Station, JIMNAVE

Declining Importance of MINCEX in Cuban Government

During JIMNAVE debriefing on 11 April 1967, AMRIVER-L provided the following information on the above subject:

1. As of March 1967, the role of MINCEX in the Cuban Government, including the Commercial Office in London, was less important than it had been two years earlier. During those two years, MINCEX lost a substantial portion of its functions and operating elements. Beginning early in 1966, Cubana de Aviacion made its own purchases abroad without the assistance of the MINCEX Commercial Offices. CUBATABACO, formerly an operating element of MINCEX, was abolished late in 1966 and its functions were taken over by an independent enterprise called Empresa Cubana del Tabaco with headquarters in Havana. In April 1967, CUBAMETAL, an operating element of MINCEX, was scheduled to be abolished and replaced by Instituto del Libro with headquarters in Havana. In January and February 1967, the GCC was studying the feasibility of transferring CUBAZUCAR, an operating element of MINCEX, to the Sugar Ministry.

SOURCE COMMENT: This trend of events appears to indicate that in the future MINCEX, functions will, be further reduced and possibly even eliminated completely.

DISTRIBUTION:

Chief, EUR Division

CCS, London


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

2.  During 1966 and early 1967 various GOC enterprises sent their own purchasing missions to London thereby eliminating the need for the Commercial Office to make purchases for them. For example, the Basic Chemistry Mission headed by Francisco CORRAL Pico and Rafael CASTILLO (the Unit) arrived in London late in 1966 to make chemical purchases. Later in 1967, the Cuban Telephone Company sent Roberto POSADA Carriles to London for telephone equipment and supplies. In February 1967, a mission of Construction arrived in London to purchase heavy construction equipment. This mission was headed by Fernando POMARES Hernandez.

3.  The chain of events which heralded the reduction in importance of the Commercial Office in London began with the assignment of persons of a much lower level of competence than those who preceeded them. Examples of persons recently assigned to the Commercial Office in London who had only six or seven years of schooling and little or no experience in foreign trade or business are Marcos PEREZ Puig, representative of CZUCAR; Orlando ROMERO Crespo, representative of MEDICUBA, QUIMPOR and acting representative of CUBATEK and CONCULPORT; and Ruben GUAL Yero, representative of MAQUILIMPORT and FERRIMPORT. The qualification of PEREZ apparently was that he was a member of the Communist Youth organization, and the qualifications of ROMERO and GUAL apparently were that they were Communist Party members.

4. Significant JIMWAVE Traces:

Marcos PEREZ Puig: AMOT report //AA-4487 67: In October 1966, Subject was a Regional Director of the National Institute of Hydraulic Resources.

Orlando ROMERO Crespo: Traces provide no additional significant information.

Ruben GUAL Yero: AMOT report EE-6285 17 January 1967; according to the official Gazette Subject was assigned to the following positions: Manager Hoffman Machine Company 20 November 1961 to 21 March 1962; Manager Hardware Unit 6-24 March 1962 to August 1962.

Francisco CORRAL Pico: AMOT reports AI-4237, 14 October 1966: Subject was Supply Chief of the Consolidated Basic Chemical Enterprise. He went to England and France in November 1965 as a member of a delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Industry to buy raw materials. PCC member. Fanatic supporter of the regime.

Roberto POSADA Carriles: AFAST-13 debriefing report of 20 April 1967- In March 1967 Subject was Chief of the Special Area of the Cuban Telephone Company in charge of classified and sensitive telephones.

Fernando POMARES Hernandez: No identifiable traces.

Rafael CASTILLO: CS-A-16393, 13 Dec 1953: Regime supporter -employed at the Havana telephone plant.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

National Institute of Hydraulic Resources.

Member of Communist Youth organization is Subjects only apparent.

Orlando

Appears to be qualified for this position because he is a Communist Party Member. This is only apparent qualification.

Ruben 201-31577

Last Party seems to be only qualification for job.

Francisco 201/

Subject went to England and France in November 1965 as a member of a delegation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Ministry of Industry to buy raw materials, PCC member and fanatic supporter of the regime.

Roberto 201-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

14-00000

In February 1957, a mission from the Ministry of Construction,
arrived in London to purchase heavy construction equipment. This
mission was headed by Subioni.

DISTILLO Rafael CCI: 720-201

Arrived in London late in 1965 to make chemical purchases.
Regime supporter employed at the Havana telephone plant.

CCI=

CCI=

CCI=

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

14-00000

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WE

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPICTAMSERVE/YOCARD Operational
Debriefing of Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

Action Required: YOCARD Input

1. Attached herewith is a debriefing report received from AMFAST/13 on 20 April 1967 containing information on the following:

a. Roberto POSADA Carriles: a DSE agent and Cuban Telephone Company employee; supervisor for "Area Norte" which is responsible for Havana City and employed at "Area Especial".

b. Pedro.DIEU: a DSE agent and Cuban Telephone Company employee; chief of installations and maintenance of "Area Norte", which is responsible for Havana City.

c. Jesus BELTRAN: a 'DSZ and PCC members employed as an installer and repairman at "Area Especial" of the Cuban Telephone Company in Vedado, Havana.

d. Information on "Area Especial" department of the Cuban Telephone Company in Vedado, Havana.

2. The source of the report, Lazaro Amando HERNANDEZ: Perez, A 17 405 510, arrived in the United States from Cuba via the airlife ca 14 April 1967. Source was employed as an installer and repairman of telephone equipment for the Cuban Telephone Company in Havana City from January 1959 to 6 February 1967:

3. JMWAVE trace results are as follows:

a. Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez: no traces

b. Roberto POSADE Carrilles: Cuban Telephone Company employee since 1952. He is the brother of AMCLEVE/15 and the Subject of a JYHAVE PERS file.

ES COPY

DATE: 25 Apr 67

DATE DISPATCHED: APR 27 237

REFERENCES: UFGA-27444

COORDINATING OFFICERS:

FILE: 19-5-30

Distribution: 3 - WH/CCG

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

119-120-10-71/6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

CONTATION OF

SECRET

UNGA-27444

c. Pedro DIBU: no traços.

d. Jesus BELTZAN: 'no preces.

The information concerning the "Area Especial" department of the Cuban Telephone Company was passed to the Reports Branch of JMWAVE for possible disseminatica.

3. Eight machine input forms are attached herewith.

![signature of Farr. EFFIELD]
Parr. EFFIELD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

INDENING INFORMATION

SECRET

INSTRUCTIONS: Insert "ASSIGN" citing 201. Il number needed.

HERNANDEZ Derez,

Lazaro

Armando

DATE OF BIRTH
17: December 1937.

COUNTRY OF BIRTH
Cuba

CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
Arteria

CITIZENSHIP
Cuba

OCCUPATION
Refugee

RESIDENCE
Elizabeth, NJ

OTHER NAMES-STATE TYPE JAKA, ALIAS, MAIDENI

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
Arrived US from Cuba via the airlife on 14 April 1967;

VPOSADA Carriles

Roberto

DATE OF BIRTH
ca 1930

COUNTRY OF BIRTH
Cuba

CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH
las villas prov.

CITIZENSHIP
Cuba

OCCUPATION
Tel, Co. Official

RESIDENCE
Marianas, Havana

OTHER NAMES STATE TYPE (AKA, ALIAS, MAIDENI

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:
DSS supervisor for "Area Norte" which is responsible for Havana
City and is employed at "Area Especial" located at 19th St. corner of. B
St., Vedado,. Havana.


Polito

DATE OF BIRTH
ca 1917

COUNTRY OF BIRTH
Cuba

CITIZENSHIP
Cuba

OCCUPATION
Tel Co employve

OTHER NAMES STATE TYPE (AKA ALIAS, MAIDENI

DSS agent, chief of installations and maintenance of "Area Norte" which
is responsible for Havana City.. PCC member.



ca 1921

Cuba

Tel Co. employee

Marianas, Havana

and PCC member; emplyed is an installer and repairman at "Area
Especial" of the Cuban Telephone Company in Vedado, Havana.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

ATTACHMENT TO LTRA-27444

April 67
Report 25 April 67
page 1

SUBJECT: Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Ramos
DOB: 17 December 1937, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Province
Alien Registration RA17-405-510

1.- Debriefer contacted HERNANDEZ, instructed by C/O, to find out if HERNANDEZ could provide information on one Roberto POSADA Carriles.

2.- HERNANDEZ arrived in Miami on 14 April 1957, via US sponsored airlift.

3.- HERNANDEZ was claimed by his wife's aunt, Amparo MARTINEZ Covia, who arrived in the US in circa 1951 and resides at 1659- West, 3rd. Avenue, Hialeah, Fla.

4.- HERNANDEZ is married to Esther Consuelo MIGUEL Martinez (DOB: 14 September 1939, Havana, Havana Province). They are temporarily residing at 1659-West, 3rd. Avenue, Hialeah, phone number 685-2327. HERNANDEZ will depart (date not set yet) for: c/o (sister) Elvira HERNANDEZ Perez, 364-Williamson street, Elizabeth, New Jersey..

5.- Since 1958 up to April 1957, HERNANDEZ resided at Santa Irene 226, Santos Suarez, Havana.

6.- On 22 October 1957, HERNANDEZ started to work for the Cuban Telephone Company in Havana employed as laboser. During August 1955, after undergoing a training sponsored by the enterprise, HERNANDEZ was promoted as assistant-installer-repairman of telephone equipment within the telephone company. In early 1959, he was promoted as "operador" (installeg and repairman of telephone equipment)-position which he held up to 6 February, 1967. HERNANDEZ claims that even though he had presented his application to leave the country since 18 May 1965, he did not inform the telephone company of his plans to leave until 4 February 1957. On 8 February 1967, HERNANDEZ resigned from the telephone company.

7.- As a telephone company worker, HERNANDEZ operated from "area norte" (north area-which includes all Havana city) with offices at 19th street corner of D street, Vedado. HERNANDEZ claims that as Installer and repair-man he never was involved in "bugging" or installment of any kind of special equipment; because this task was assigned to another group that operates from "area especial" (special area) which is located at 19th street corner of C street, Vedado. Since 1953 up to 1955, HERNANDEZ was assigned to work at Plaza Civica (now Plaza de la Revolucion) where he repaired and installed telephones, for: MININT, INRA; Ministry of Communication, Ministry of Transportation, MINCONS and for the Public Library. In early 1955, before the Ministry of the Armed Forces and the MININT, were moved to the Plaza Civica, HERNANDEZ was told that if he wanted to keep his job, at Plaza Civica, he had to become fully integrated with the G2, when HERNANDEZ refused he was transferred and assigned to service private residences.

C.- Since 1956 up to January 1959, HERNANDEZ was a 26th of July member, in the propaganda section, selling bonus, and delivering propaganda.

(over to 2)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# 14-00000

Debrief = 18 April 67
Report = 20 April 67
Page 2
V-
(T)

(Continues)

SU:
Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez
DOB: 17 December 1937, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Province.
Alien Registration FA17-405-510

9.- HERNANDEZ claims that he never belonged to any GOC organi- zation.

10.- In April 1951, during the Bay of Pigs Invasion, HERNANDEZ was detained for 11 days at Principe prison in Havana; for not been pro-GOC. On 18 September 1952, HERNANDEZ and seven others were caught when they stole an IUIT boat and attempted to escape from Cuba by Guanabo beach, Guanabacoa, Havana. This time, HERNANDEZ was detained (together with his companions) for a month and a half at DSE offices, Quinta corner of Catorce street, Mira- mar, and then they were released after they were given a lecture that the Revolution was sending them free because it was a gene- rous revolution. (Debriefer's note: By that time the GOC was not sentencing to prison terms persons who were caught escaping).
During 1964 HERNANDEZ, was detained for four days when he had a fist fight with a CDR member in his neighborhood, this time HERNANDEZ was aided in getting out of jail by his sister, Andrea HERNANDEZ Perez, who is pro-GOC. In early 1965, HERNANDEZ was detained for two days accused of playing domino (betting).

11.- HERNANDEZ sister: Andrea HERNANDEZ Perez (D.I.O.B.: circa 1935, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Province). CDR-member and GOC sympathizer. Works at "Salud Publica" with offices at 17 street (unrecalled) between 2 and 4 streets, Vedado, employed as of- fice clerk. During March 1957 was punished to work for "Flota Pesquera" at Havana docks, packing fish, when she refused to do voluntary work. During 1965 she was married to (fnu) CANCIO (DPOB: circa 1927, Havana, Havana Province who is em- ployed as Director Physical Fitness at Havana University, and who is a staunch GOC supporter and a militiaman. Andrea and his husband reside at Calle San Miguel (≠ unreadable.) corner of Horques Gonzalez, Havana city.

12.- HERNANDEZ provided the following info of CI interest:

a) Echardo POSADA Carriles; DSE-agent, Supervisor for "Area Norte" (which includes all Havana city) of the Telephone Company and employed at "Area Especial" (Special Area) of the Telephone Company. Attachment #1

b) Pedro DIEU (fnu); DSE-agent, Chief of Installations and Maintenance of "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company and employed at "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company. CP member. Attachment #2

c) Zayas (fnu) Aka: "Pepe"; DSE and CP member and installer and repairman for "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company. Attachment #3

d) Oscar BELTRAN (fnu); DSE and CP member and installer and repairman for "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company. Attachment #4

e) Central Information of CI Interest. Attachment #5

(over to 3)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Debrief 19 April 67
Report 20 April 67

(CONTINUED)
SUBJECT: Lazaro Armando Ramirez Perez
DOB: 17 December 1937, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Prova
Alien Registration 5117-405-510

COMMENT: HERNANDEZ talked freely and was very cooperative.
He appears to Debriefer as being clear regarding
CI interest and also a reliable source of information.

(over to 4)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# ATTACHMENT #1

ref = 14 April 67
Report = 20 April 67
Page 4
(T)

SUBJECT: Roberto POSADA Carriles.
DSE agent, Supervisor for "Area Norte" (which includes all Havana City) of the Telephone Company and employed at "Area Especial" (Special Area) of the Telephone Company.

SOURCE: Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez.
DPOD# 17 December 1937, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Prov.
Alien registration #A17-405-510

1.- HERNANDEZ met POSADA in early 1966 when POSADA was appointed as Supervisor for "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company at 19-Street corner of D Street, Vedado, Havana. POSADA had been transferred from "Area Oeste" to this job at "Area Norte" position which he is still holding.

2.- Also upon his arrival, POSADA was assigned to work at "Special Area" of the Telephone Company which is located at 19 Street corner of C Street, Vedado. HERNANDEZ claims that since that time it was known that POSADA was a DSE agent, as it was known that all the personnel working for "Area Especial" were DSE agents (they use to brag about it) since their job is to install and repair telephone equipments for DSE, Military and all GOC big shots. HERNANDEZ claims that he does not know what position POSADA holds within "Area Especial", since only "Area Especial" personnel is allowed to enter the premises.

3.- HERNANDEZ claims knowledge that since circa 1942, POSADA was a Cuban Telephone Company employee.

4.- HERNANDEZ claims that even though POSADA'S position at "Area Norte" is that of Supervisor he never works as such, and only works as Telephone Technician (work unk.) when he is needed at "Area Especial". HERNANDEZ claims that POSADA'S real work at "Area Norte" is to check all the employees, mainly those who are not pro-GOC, so they work hard and to avoid sabotage.

5.- HERNANDEZ claims that POSADA wears military uniform most of the time and carries side arm even when wearing civilian clothes. HERNANDEZ also claims that he had heard POSADA when talking with other "Special Area" personnel, and that they brag a lot about being DSE agents. They also talk about when they are assigned to install any kind of telephone equipments, for a GCC personality (ex: CASTRO, Celia SANCHEZ etc.).

6.- During mid 1956, POSADA traveled for some six months to Europe and it was said that he had gone to buy new equipment for the Telephone Company. But HERNANDEZ claims that he went by after-POSADA's return to Cuba, and nobody saw nor heard about any new equipment for the Telephone Company.

7.- HERNANDEZ saw POSADA for the last time at "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company, on 6 February 1967.

8.- PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: DPOD: In circa 1933, unk., Las Villas Province; caucasian (fair skin); straight black hair (crew cut); dark eyes (wears sunglasses); long face; good teeth; 6'1 in height and 175# slender build. Married (names unk.). Resides at (address unk.) Mariano, Havana. DSE agent, Supervisor of "Area Norte" and worker (position unk.) of "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company.

(over to 2)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

#

## ATTACHMENT #2

SUBJECT: Pedro DIDU (not unk.)

SOURCE:
Cuban agent, Chief of Installations and maintenance of "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company and employed at "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company.
December
Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ-Perez
Born: 17 December 1917, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Prov.
Alien registration: M17-425-520

1.- HERNANDEZ saw DIDU for the first time during 1950, but never met him until circa 1954 at "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company.

2.- HERNANDEZ claims knowledge that DIDU was a Cuban Telephone Company employee since circa 1937.

3.- DIDU is the Chief of Installations and Maintenance of "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company and also works (position unk.) for "Area Especial" at 19 Street corner of C Street, Vedado, so it was known that DIDU was a GSI agent since he was an employee of "Area Especial".

4.- HERNANDEZ claims that DIDU besides dragging about being a GSI agent with other "Special Area" employees, tells everybody that he is very proud of being a CP member.

5.- HERNANDEZ claims that DIDU together with Roberto POSANI Carriles is always checking on the "Area Norte" employees in the task of avoiding sabotages.

6.- HERNANDEZ also claims that DIDU only works as a Telephone Technician (work unk.) when he is needed at "Area Especial" or when there is a "estado de alarma" (national alert set by CASTRO) and that DIDU has a "special Area" member is assigned to install telephone lines for Army-Trenches along the island or where needed.

7.- HERNANDEZ saw DIDU for the last time during early 1957, at "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company.

8.- PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: Born: Circa 1917, unk. light muletto; black grayish, crew cut; hazel eyes (wears corrective lenses) it round, face; good teeth; 5'6" in height and 150# heavy. married (name unk) resides at (address unk) Havana. Cuban, employee of Installations and Maintenance of the Telephone.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# 14-00000

Deb:ief = 19 April 67
Report = 20 April 67
V-
(T)

page 6

ATTACHMENT #3

SUBJECT: Jose (pat and mat unt.) Aka: "Nepe"
DSE and CP member and Installer and repairman
for "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company.

SOURCE: Lazaro Armand HAMNANDEZ Perez
DP03: 17 December 1937, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Prov.
Alien Registration 2A17-435-510

1.- HERNANDEZ Let Jose during 1957 when they both started to work for the Cuban Telephone Company in Havana.

2.- Up to circa 1962, Jose was employed as installer-repairman for "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company at 19 Street corner of B Street, Vedado, Havana.

3.- In circa 1962 Jose was assigned to work as repairman and installer of telephone equipments for "Area Especial" at 19 Street corner of C Street, Vedado, and since then it was known that Jose was a DSE agent, as every other "Area Especial" employee.

4.- Jose at all other "Area Especial" personnel brag's a lot about being a DSE agent. He wears military uniform always, showing no rank and is always side armed.

5.- In early 1966, Jose was elected to become member of the Cuban Communist Party in an assembly to elect new CP members at his place of employment.

6.- In the performance of his job, Jose installs and repairs telephone equipments at: Offices of ministers, DSE offices, Military Headquarters, DSE personalities'offices and homes, etc.

7.- HERNANDEZ saw Jose for the last time in early 1967 at "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company.

8.- PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION: Born: Circa 1937, unk.; caucasian (brunette; wavy black hair; dark eyes (wears sunglasses); round face; good teeth; 5'9" in height and 160# strong build. Married (names unk.). Resides at (address unk.) Havana. DSE and CP member, installer-repairman of Telephone equipments for "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company at 19 Street corner of, C Street, Vedado, Havana.

(over to 7).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Debrief = 19 April 67
Report = 20 April 67
Page 7
(T)

ATTACHMENT #4

SUBJECT: Jesus BELTRAN (mat unk.)
DSE and CR member, installer-repairman for "Area Especial", of the Telephone Company.

SOURCE: Lazaro Armando Hernandez Perez
DPOR: 17 December 1937, Artemisa, Pinar del Rio Prov.
Alien Registration #A17-405-510

1.- HERNANDEZ met BELTRAN during 1956, when they were both Cuban Telephone Company employees in Havana.

2.- HERNANDEZ claims knowledge that prior to 1959, BELTRAN was an active 26th of July Movement member in Havana.

3.- HERNANDEZ claims knowledge that prior to his (HERNANDEZ') arrival to the Cuban Telephone Company, BELTRAN (date unk.) was a Cuban Telephone Company employee.

4.- Up to circa 1952, BELTRAN was an installer-repairman of telephone equipments at "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company at 19 Street corner of B Street, Vedado, Havana.

5.- In circa 1952, BELTRAN was assigned to work as repairman and installer of telephone equipments for "Area Especial" at 19 Street-corner of C Street, Vedado, and since then, it was known that BELTRAN was a DSE agent as every other "Area Especial" employee.

6.- BELTRAN wears military uniform, showing no rank, most of the time and is always side armed, even when wearing civilian clothes. He also brags a lot about being a DSE agent.

7.- In early 1955 BELTRAN was elected to become member of the Cuban Communist Party in an Assembly to elect new UP members at his place of employment.

8.- In the performance of his job, BELTRAN installs and repairs telephone equipments at: Offices of ministers, DSE offices, military headquarters, GOV personalities' offices and homes, army trenches (when needed), etc.

9.- HERNANDEZ saw BELTRAN for the last time during February 1957 at "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company.

10.- *PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION:* circa 1931, Havana, Havana Prov.; complexion (unreadable); straight grayish black hair; green eyes; (mustache); round face; good teeth; 5'9" in height and 150 slender (unreadable inches unk.). Resides at (address unk.), Mariana,
tenant for "Area Especial" of the Telephone Company at 19 Street corner of C Street, Vedado, Havana.

(over to 2)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# 14-00000

Notrjet = 19 April 67
Report = 20 April 67
Page 8
(T)

ATTACHMENT #5

SUBJECT: General Information of CI interest:

SOURCE: Lazaro Armando HERNANDEZ Perez
DPOB: 17 December 1937, Artenisa, Pinar del Rio Prov.
Alien Registration #A17-405-510

A) AREA ESPECIAL (SPECIAL AREA) OF THE TELEPHONE COMPANY

HERNANDEZ claims that in early 1950, the GCC established a new department within the Cuban Telephone Company, this department was called "Area Especial".

As site for "Area Especial" was chosen a building located at 19 Street corner of C-Street, Vedado, Havana, that is in the opposite corner of the same block that "Area Norte" of the Telephone Company is located (12 Street corner of B Street). Prior to being taken by the GCC, the building was the local of "Colegio Sepulveda" (Sepulveda private school).

HERNANDEZ claims that since "Area Especial" was organized, all of its members that had to deal with installations or repairments of telephone equipments had to be DSE agents (by that time DIER, later on G-2).

Even though only the acredited members of "Area Especial" can enter the premises, HERNANDEZ claims that it is common knowledge among telephone employees that the functions of the members of "Area Especial" is to install, service and maintain telephone equipments for: Offices of Ministers, DSE offices, Ministry of the Armed Forces, MININT,  DOC personalities' homes and offices (including CASTRO'S), DSTI and any other GCC entity requiring security measures. It is also a main function of "Area Especial" personnel to establish telephone equipments and lines among trenches of the Cuban Army whenever needed (ex: October crisis of 1962).

Note: Debriefer had been previously informed by Eusebio Pio Valdes-Castro, on cobriefing carried out at Freedom House on 7 April 1967, that a telephone cable had been installed (underground) from 2 Street corner of 13 Street, Vedado, (place with RIVERO referred to as "Unidad Militar-Military Unit") up to 19 Street corner of C Street, Vedado (place which RIVERO referred to as: Telephone Company sub-plant of Vedado area). RIVERO at that time stated that this operation was done in late 1962 after the October crisis, and that he thought that this was part of the "bugging operation". Asked by Debriefer, HERNANDEZ stated that during late 1962 after the October crisis, a telephone cable (underground) was installed at "Area Especial" and that the DSE was installing a "new" switchboard at "Area Especial". (No further info).

(T) by Debriefer HERNANDEZ stated that he had no knowledge directly by the name of Alfonso REY Alvarez within the Telephone Company.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)