# 104-10183-10437

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

2 June 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with AMBUNNY-1 (201-775391) and
AMWHIP-1 (201-267966)

DATE: 25 May 1965, 1900-2030 hours

PLACE: Office of AMWHIP-1, 31 W. 47th St., New York, N.Y.

PRESENT: AMBUNNY-1, AMWHIP-I, and DAMICONE using alias of
AL MARIN

1. I had introduced AMPUNNY-1 and AMWHIP-l to each other
   21 May but the office was crowded, so there was very little
   opportunity to discuss operational matters. We met again
   on the above date, after business hours, and we were able
   to meet in private. Although AMWHIP told me that he was
   delighted with AMBUNNY-1 herself, as he said the "Cubans
   like that kind of girl -- not too fancy", he thought that
   her background particularly her previously working for the
   (U.S. Ambassador in Bolivia) would make the operation very
   risky. He said that if it were discovered that AMPUNNY-1 was
   a penetration of the (UNSNAFU-19 office (by the Cubars) his
   connection with ODYOKE would then be revealed, with the result
   that all his "connections" with UNSNAFU-19, and "Habana" would
   be lost. AMWHIP-1 opined that he thought it likely that the
   Cubans would check her out in (Bolivia)

2. AMWHIP suggested the possibility of using a cutout
   to introduce AMBUNNY-1 to the UNSNAFU-19 installation. He
   said he would explain in detail at a later time, what he
   meant, obviously not wanting to reveal any more than necessary
   to AMBUNNY-1.

3. Also, AMWHIP-I stated that he was unable to travel
   to Paris before mid-June, as he had some relatives coming
   to visit him from Italy. After checking with DI UBALDO,
   I subsequently informed AMWHIP-I and AMBUNNY-1 that the
   Paris operation was off. Both expressed relief. I told
   AMDUNNY-1 that she could most likely still be utilized in
   Rabat, and that we would discuss the possibilities at a
   later date.

Norris . Damicone


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)