104-10188-10001

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INDER: YES [ ] NO [X]

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 53-6-22/4 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SREF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID [ ] DET. TO BRANCH [ ]

DESTROY [ ] SIE.  PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 3

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

843

ACTION ADVANCE COPY

UNIT   TIME   BY

RID COPY [X] ISSUED [ ] SLOTTED [ ] TORED[ ]

INFO FILE V2, EUR8, SA8, CIPCS, Flim2

SECRET 151603Z CITE OTTAWA 4131

MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR

REDCOAT

REF A: MEXICO CITY 0121 (IN 88248)

B: MEXICO CITY 9919 (IN 77928)

LOCAL LNERGO REP PASSED REF INFO RE LOWRY TO SMABOVE 13 FEB 57.

SECRET

ST

SECRET

LIFENT

50.6.32/4

15 FEBC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

INDEXE YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 50-6/4
X-REF TO FILE ND
FILE RIC RET: TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 41
SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFICO
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DISSEM BY AN
ACTION WH8
ADVANCE COPY RID COPY
UNIT
TIME
INFO FILE, IR, EURS SAP, WH/COG8, Cilaps, FI, FIJINTL

SECRET 2721552 CITE MEXICO CITY 2121
DIRECTOR INFO OTTAWA

RED COAT
MICROFILMED APR 14 1967
(IN77928)
PEF: MEXICO CITY 9919 (PLS RELAY TO OTTAWA)

1. PER LIFEAT DON LOWRY AGAIN CALLED LEONOV 19 JAN
   IDENT IFYING HIMSELF AS FROM CANADA. LOWRY HAD BEEN UNABLE
   TO CONTACT ESCARTIN AT CUBAN EMBASSY, BUT LEONOV SAID HE
   COULD NOT HELP HIM AND THAT HE SHOULD KEEP TRYING.

2. LOCAL LNERGO HAS RECORD OF ONE DONALD POBERT LOWRY.
   BORN 25 NCV 1914 OP 1915 IN WALKERVILLE OR WINDSOR, ONTARIO.
   LOCAL LNERGO IS NOTIFYING THEIR REPRESENTATIVES IN IN CONTACT WITH WASHINGTON AND OTTAWA TO SEE IF LOWRY STILL ON WANTED LIST.

3. STATION HAS LIONION PHOTO OF MAN WHO VISITED CUBAN EMBASSY ON 9 JAN AND SHOWS SOME RESEMBLANCE TO VERY OLD
   LUEPGO PHOTO OF DONALD ROPERI LOWRY, CAN POUCH PRINTS IF
   OITAWA STATION WISHES.

4. SUP STANCE OF THE ABOVE AND INFO IN FEF MAY BE
   PASSED TO SMAROVES, DISGUISING SOUPCE. REQUEST OTTAWA STATION
   COORDINATE ANY ACTION 'WITH LHERGO.

SECRET
MICROFILMED MAR 7 1967

BI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S F C P E T 132130Z CITE MEXICO CITY
DIRECTOR
FEDCOAT

1. LIFFAT REPORTS THAT MAN GIVING HIS NAME AS DON Lowry, EVIDENTLY AMERICAN, WAS IN CONTACT WITH SOVIET PRESS ATTACHE LEONOV 221-132139 ON 9 JAN AND ALSO WITH CUBAN CULTURAL ATTACHE RICARDO ESCARTIN FERNANDEZ SAME DAY.

Lowry said he had newspaper and magazine experience and had also been radio and television announcer. Escartin Fernandez had agreed to send his letter and writing samples to Cuba in next pouch and told him chances were maybe twenty percent, evidently of his getting a job there. Lowry has to wait around Mexico for two weeks, apparently until he hears from Cuba.

2. Leonov was non-committal but said he would introduce Lowry to Soviet Consul on 10 Jan. Conversation indicates that Lowry had first asked Leonov about a job and Leonov had suggested he try the Cuban Embassy.

3. Request cabled Headquarters traces. Informing Local LNFPRO.

S F C P E T
BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

DISPATCH

To: Chier, a Division

From: Chief of Station, Mexico City

Subject: LINUS/ Disposition of Tares

Ref: DEACTOR 06770, 23 January 1907

Action required. as determined by headquarters.

1. As requested in reference, Station Fort au Prince is pouching to headquarters all of the LIU/Latent cards currently on file at the Station. Please return to Station copies of those cards containing sufficient information to be of value to Station.

2. Station is in agreement with Headquarters that a hard copy of the tapes should be sent directly from Station Mexico City to Headquarters in order that Headquarters may expedite the processing of the material. However, station suggests that in order to reduce the overall processing time and eliminate what could be duplication of effort, only Headquarters, when processing the original tapes, receive a copy of the tapes and send a composite tape to the Creole portions Station for translation.

3. Station currently has a backlog of the LIU/LIFTT tapes. Please advise whether these tapes also should be sent to headquarters for processing.

4. Headquarters comments and suggestions are welcome.

Distribution:
2-Chief,
1-Mexico City

![signature of Matthew N. Childs]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: AIPA-1973

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 26 January 1967

MCS FILE NUMBER:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

TO: Deputy Chief WII/C

INFO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED CESA CAN JUDGE INDEXING
MICROFILM

SUBJECT: TYPIC/LIFEAT/Transmittal of Traffic of Subject of 201-735575 and LICLOVE-2

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

1.  Attached as A are copies of traffic covering the Subject of 201-735575 for the period 1, 2, 4, and 7 June 1966. This traffic was provided Station Mexico by LIFEAT.

2.  Attached as B are copies of traffic covering LICLOVE-2 for the period 30 May - 12 June 1966. This traffic was also provided Station Mexico by LIFEAT.

3.  Attachments are being forwarded KAPOK and under separate cover.

Attachments:
A & B a/s KAPOK u/s/c

Distribution:

*   DOKR/C w/atts u/s/c

*   C/WHD w/o atts

*   FILES

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HOMA-29211

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 16 June 1966

HQS FILE NUMBER: 50-A-12/1

![signature of Linda G. Bradley for Willard C. Curtis]

![LIFEAT/CB DETERMINED 50-43214]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# DISPATCH

25

Chief of station, Port-au-Prince

Translation of Creole Portions of Llit Tapes

REFERENCES:

References:

C. HI-28440, 8 March 1966
D. HI-28489, 14 March 1966
E. HI-28534, 22 March 1966
F. HI-28544, 29 March 1966
G. HNKA-28701, 11 April 1966
H. -8761, 25 April 1966
I. HI-28834, 3 May 1966

Action: FYI

MICROFILMED
JUN 24 1966
DOC. MICRO BER.

1. Attached for addressees information are translations of the creole language portions of the tapes forwarded
   The translations were done by *L-1*.
   In references. The translations were done by *L-1*. conversations which have no operational or intelligence value have not been included.

2. In zy or 223.2 the Journal Content cannot be identified by the station. Sen headquarters identify the Journal?

3. The Judy in 2y GF 26 17.5 is possibly Judith … the Costa Rican woman friend of the Plaintiff…?

4. 2y 101 is very Interesting conversation. Evidently Pierre has just returned from Miami and is to meet him in San Juan, Puerto Rico where he went to discuss others.

CILLA is Fritz the who is believed to have forged a Continental conference in he went in January 1960, however it eco probably a pseudonym. Per consulte files, Raymond

Plat, 3 cumber 1915, Cayes, Haiti travels to and from Juarez.

5.  In June 1960. Juan is the first direct confirmation of Guogn exile activity directed at Haiti in Puerto Rico. Gerard C. Folco is
    The Cuban approach to

CS COPY

32/4

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
-1627
DATE
30-4-121


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# 14-00000

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SILT

Tel Hanki it
cives, halti is

478

4-1859

19 June 1234 en:

Roor leeuer.
Inter/econo.st/r/economist/
buictive inteligent

leftist labor lawyer. subject of hi-1715, u station con-
Lict, reported that on 29 Letober 1965, one before
STEPS onliti in San Jun.

Cried for the
overthrow of the accio-economic structure of all including
bin" pourroisite stortin, revelo

int so very cepoole, energetic intellectual with a
genuine gift of lesnership. lie received a tition law derree,
studied economics in Faris for six years and received a U.S.
Covernment rant to attend a barvard seliter on marketing, in
1962. while in Haiti he appeared to of pro-merican. at the
Sen Juen symposium ATUL acciored that every bition would
resist U.. Intervention in cits and condemned the d.. Stute
Lepartment for meat in in itition exlic affairs. MAJUT
is probably Lesliemi sliceManila (401-297422) 08 168, u uit 1930,

To--Prince, resident of

Thouwh... is a

circles of his close ties
known leftist his is the first imication from within CP
Communist parties out that they tre
the Corfu ports. It would
appear from the inmormation and implications in the telephone
conversation that both in
while I have ties with the


or dogmatぶ。

Jarly alacicline

5.  The "zero" (ph) mentioned in 25 OP 126 2,0 is unknown
    hospital in texico or in the soviet Bloc
    to station. Can adressces reconize the neke as a clinic or
    nounced z ero (herriau-cebster pronounciation seys).
    The zero le pro-
    Of 2) ()
    lon seys).

6. The A hot of HTFA

7. The DUVAL in 29 CF 137 18.5 is prowably Joseph MARRON
   1721, 24 Feb 190

28 u ust in 2x112x1.7 is probably Guy Tok,
Mir Arioche  Mir Arioche
City from exico City
to toscow in August 1964. ~tation
the CFCs is being received by the
hotes thとしCome call for

LLLUULUU
Translation of Tapes

Distribution:
2-Cus, Pexico City /orig. att.
2-C/D w/lcy att.

JOULII C. B...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SEGRET

Attachment to HTPA-185

MICROFILMED
JUN 24 1966
DOC. MICRO. BER.

Page 1

29 CP 82 3.2

This conversation is about "The Comedians", & book written about Haiti by Graham Greene. Gerard and Suzie are talking to Pierre Lelong. Pierre says the book was the novel of the month of February in the U.S. Book is about Duvalier. Gerard has heard that foreigners are making money on Haition heads by writing such stories but he has also heard that Greene was in contact with a person who really gave him full information. Pierre says there was & review of the book in L'Edition and he hos saved it. Gerard Pierre if he has the latest edition of the newspaper Combatant. Pierre has it and promises to return it.

29 GP 85 3.0

Suzie colls Gerard PIERRE CHARLES. Roger has left Susie a note. Gerard failed to go where he had planned. Gerard called Dorce but Dorce wasnit there. He went to the Embassy for 15-20 minutes but he couldn't find him. (Conversation probably about Aldi Castors visa.) Gerard asks how everything come out. The wife of the Chief of Police came over to fix the thing about the little girl. The police never suspected anybody and they don't think anybody like that had it. Suzie says Claudette finally found her passport. Claudette went to a (convent?) and someone stole her handbag which contained her passport, money and license to work. Everything was returned the next day with a check for $500. Claudette had to return the $500.

29 GP 85 9.०

Suzie with Gerard. Suzie asks Gerard if he saw a number on the front or back of something (papers)? No. There is nothing written by hand. Gerard received three copies and they are looking for two more.

29 GP 98 17.5

Suzie calls Gerard. Suzie asks Gerard if aldi has come by. Suzie says she is going back to the mbassy. Gerard has changed every- thing and the man will come by around 2:00 to pick him up. Judy called to ask when she should come.

29 GP 103 4.9

Pierre Lelong calling Suzie Pierre-Charles. Suzie asks Fierre when he returned. He just arrived, but without his mother. Suzie asks Fierre how Lillion and her friends were, They were fine. Tonton CINAS had been arrested and had been shot. Also, something is supposed to start in Haiti. Tonton Clh. AS was in touch with some- ene named Maitre domond PlipRL. Clemera CHARLES was also involved

απ
To HTPA 1857
CS COPY.
50-6-32/4
1:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

## ELUNCT,

Page 2

in the affair. ss2,000 was involved. The person that gave him the
news was a friend of Clemard CiKU.S. A newspaper in N.Y. numed
il Tiempo has written about an invasion of Haiti. El Tiempo re-
ported that someone named Vixame was involved. Fierre was in a store
in San Juan, Puerto Rico buying some cloth when a Cuban girl
approached him and asked him if he was ilaition. The Firl was &companied
by a Cuban man and they asked Fierre questions about Haitian history.
They asked Fierre if he knew anything about Duvalier. Pierre ex-
plained he was opposed to Duvelier. The Cubans said there were people
in San Juan planning to "catch" Duvalier. Pierre implies that the
Cuban man lives in Nexico. Gerard PILKE CHARLES takes the phone.
Gerard tells Pierre that someone named Silvie is on the border. Gerard
asks Pierre if he has brought the merchandise. Yes. Pierre went to the
post office to pick up a package and they were going to open the package
to inspect it but Fierre told the clerk it was not necessary to in-
spect it. The post office clerk said the declared value was too high,
and he had to open it. when he opened it he found it was a hand-
written manuscript so the clerk asked no more questions. Everything
went alright. Fierre mentions that during his trip overseas (San Juan)
he met Gerard LATESTUE, Gerard asks Pierre what LITORTUE'S financial
status was. Pierre thinks LATORTUL is working at the University of
Mayaguez. Pierre says there are a lot of licitions in Puerto Rico that
are interested in doing something (against Duvalier?) but most are
without families. They are petty bourgeois or engineers working in
San Juan. The bourgeois Haitians now have stores in Puerto Rico..
Gerard asks Pierre if LATORTUE mentioned anything about his uncle
Francois LATORTUE. Lo, he did not. LATORTUL Might come to Mexico soon
on a tourist viss. He has to go through some routine to get the visa.
Gerard tells Pierre that Francois LATORTUE is up to his neck in
politics in Haiti. LATURTUE said that the leftist party was really
mistreating Mall and LATORTUL didn't like it. Everytime MANIGAT
opens his mouth somethin; happens. The leftist parties likened NALIGAT
to Castro. Like Castro, MALIGAT talked too much and did too many things.
MANIGAT showed his card too much and that is why they are mistreating
him. It was the communist party that put MANIGAT where he is, just
as the CP put Castro where he is. LATORTUE has written an article to
counter what has happened to MANIGAT. Gerard says he knew KARIGAT 10
years ago in Haiti. LATORTUE has written an article condemning
American intentions of landing in Haiti. LATORTUE x is Professor of
Economics at the iniversity of Mayaguez. LATORTUE is trying to leave
Puerto Rico and go somewhere else where he can find better work.

29 GP 105 25.7

Gerard is talking to Suzie about & title of property. She cannot
find it. She asks about Daniel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Page 2

29 GP 106 2,2

Gerard calls Pierre LELONG and asks Pierre to drop by tonight. Has Pierre found 2 packages of papers? One contains papers for Suzie's course and the other is a package of white blank paper for cimcosmoph-ing.

29 GP 107 20,2

Suzie calls Gerard. Suzie is near the "guy's" house. She wants some money to get a large roll of paper and wants to write & check for the people that are going to send "those things" this afternoon. Gerard asks if she received any news. Yes. Gerard asks Suzie to buy some flash bulbs for his camera.

29 GP 118 3.0

Suzie with Benoit. Benoit excuses himself for not coming. He will come by tomorrow night about 8:00p.m. when he gets out of school. Has Suzie received any news from Gerard? No. Suzie asks about Pierre Louis. Pierre Louis is doing alright.

29 GP 118 11.2

Suzie cells Vincent. Long time no see. Vincent kids Suzie about her travels, vacation, new house, and car. She asks about Angelica. Benoit is coming over tomorrow. Angelica's brother cane in for a vacation. Vincent asks Suzie if there is any other news. No. Still the same as in February from the newspaper Salliement. The same story. Vincent seys that he has no news about Heit out he got a letter from the family saying that the economic situation is very rough. Vincent asks about Aldi. He scored 9.10 on an exam. Susie asks Vincent if he has seen CINAS (ph) (sounds like somebody at the Kexican University). Vincent says everybody at the University is against him.

29 GP 128 2,0

Gerard is talking to an uidentified person. Gerard explains to the person that before he travels "they" will give him a test wisich will show if he has 13 or not. If the test is positive, they will rive him medecine to stop or cure it. The unidentified person is a-fraid and Gerard tries to tell him that it is not serious because if it were, "they" would have given hir special treatment in the "zero". The unidentified person says that he has just come out of school and has had pneumonia.

29 GP 128 10.0

Gerard with Suzie. MARRON wants to know what time he should arrive because he is doing something very important. He should come around 2:00.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

29 CP 129 12.7

Suzie with sonya. Susie and Sonya are going to the theater. They mention Maggie who tole them that they shouldn't go; they won' understand anything.

29 CP 137 18.5

M calls MON and asks M to come right away.

29 GP 139 8.7

Pierre LELONG calls Puzie. Suzie has friends with her now. She asks if there is a letter. He said there is an open letter. when Fierre came in he found all the laters opened on the table. There is a letter from DUVAL. They must be yesterday's letters.

29 GP 140 16.2

Suzie & with Claudette LELCING. Suzie thanks Claudette for the gift and the translation. There had beer & lecture at the University given by someone who spoke only French. The person came Tuesday night and left this corning. llow does Suzie feel after all that translating? She is O.X.; its her field. She is moving today. Claudette tells her Gerard is going to be suprised when he comes beck. Suzie teils Claudette that she will tell Pierrot to tell his friend in Miami that her brother is brothers coming up soon.

29 GP 146 7.0

Suzie calls Bernard. They talk about Suzie's new house. She is a big bourgeoise now. She asks for Sonya's address.

22 GP 59.5

(Ti Ben is a nickname for Benoit.) Ti Ben with Suzie. B couldn't come because he was busy working but by Saturday he will try to have everything ready. She will call him and let hic now. Suzie asks B if they are already on strike. B says medical school hasn't started yet. B proposed & plan for a strike but three of them didn't like the iusa. They decided to wait and see what happens. Suzie asks 3 if he has news from Haiti. He heard some troops had landed in Haiti. Suzie asks what kind of rumors he nad heard. B: "Duvalier has burned half of Cap Haitien. A Haitics told him that". Suzie has heard that there was a landing in ilalti and Puvalier silled 15,000 people. Une Thursday a newspaper 11 ? announced a lending in Haiti. The newspaper Veridaces announced that there had been a wave of repression in Haiti. Some American boats and cirplanes were surrounding Haiti. The Haitian government protested to the americans but the Americans said that it was just & routine check/protection of the islands. Susie says that Konrod FHILLI was shot because of the CINAS affair. Suzie asks B if he has heard from the heition "mblasy. No. B's philosophy course I had been suspended.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Reel 89-BAR-6

2.0 From 2050, 7 June (Tuesday), to 0700, 3 June 1966

2.5 Out to 25-20-00. Sergio (Martinez Barroso) with Cecilia, who answers. Has lost the address. It is Dante, behind the hotel Tecali. Dante #23.

2.7 Cut to 03. Time is 2200, 7 June.

2.7 Cut to 03. No rings.

From 0700 to 2100, 3 June (Wednesday) 1966

2.7 In. Sra. Olga (v) with Juanita, who answers. The men aren't going to come to lunch. About what to fix lunch....

After 1115, 3 June

3.2 Cut to 03, twice. No rings, complete. Time is 1146, 3 June.

After 1345, 3 June

3.5 Out to 03. Time is 1419, 3 June.

3.7 In. Sra. Olga (v) with maid, who answers. They (Sue and another woman) are coming home for lunch now... about lunch...

4.0 Out to 17-30-59. MI asks 40, who answers, for Jose Yora. Who is calling? A friend from Cuba.

Joan Yore takes phone. MI has a letter for JAfros Carlos Yora. Could he come by tonight to pick it up at Cuban Embassy? ALL right, but if he can't come by tonight, please leave it with: "portero" and MI will pick it up tomorrow. Fine. How is Carlos (Yora)? 40 did not see him. He (Carlos) only left the letter there at MI's office.

4.5 Out to 24-33-72. Hangs up.

4.7 Out to 35-40-00. MI asks 40, who answers Aeronaves de Mexico, for 4 reservations for tomorrow's flight to Los Mochis. There is no flight tomorrow, there is one day after tomorrow. They fly Monday, Wednesday and Fridays, at 0845. They have to change planes in Culiacan, flight 126. The return flight leaves Los Mochis at 1335 on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Then, they will reserve the tickets for day after tomorrow with return flight on Saturday.

Checks and says the four are confirmed on flight 1009 to Culiacan and they have requested confirmation from there on. Call back tomorrow. Jose Caveira, Hugo del Pino, Enrique Lansa and Sergio Martines are the ones going. Phone 25-01-14, his office phone. His home phone 31-01-06.

After 1500, 3 June

7.0 Out to 09, twice. No rings complete. Olga Martines Barroso asks for operator 134. de Habana call of Civeira. Still no circuit to Habana. They are out of order.

Resi

CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Reel 37-DAR-6
3 June 1966

7.5 In. WO asks Olga (v), who answers, for Sr. Civeira.
Civeiru takes phone. Blasin (?pm) aniled. wanted to talk to C. Fine. They have to go by aeronaves de Mexico before 1300 for tickets to Los Mochis. There is a flight leaving every day. Martines Barroso called and there is no flight until day after tomorrow. MI takes phone. There is no direct flight to Los Mochis. In any case they have to go to pay for tickets. Have to go before 1330. MI will go by so .f. ond MI can go by for tickets.

8.0 In. WO with maid, who answers...wrong number.

8.2 In. WO with maid, who answers. Asks if this is house of Ambassador. Yes, it is house of Sr. Martinez. WO then says it is wrong number. Maid thinks Martinez B. Is Amb.

3.5 In. WO with Juana, who answe s, for Enriqueta. Maid comes to phone. About WO's work...maids...WO and..(Sra.) went downstairs at 1500. Said just got back, Sra. went on to the Embassy. About visiting Enriquita this Sunday. MI is not sure if she will be off on Sunday....WO's Sra. is having guests on Saturday evening...

Reel off at RT 10.2, 2100, 8 June 1966

Reel 37-DAR-6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Reel 39-BAR-3 -1-

From 2100, 3 June (Thursday) to 0650, 3 June 1966

From 0650, 3 June (Friday) to 0730, 4 June 1966

After 0902, 3 June 1966

2.0 In. WC with WI, her mother (maid), who answers. Both are maid
types...about why she has not called...will see one another totorrow.

2.7 In. Sra. with maid, who answers, about fixing the fish....rice.

After 1240, 3 June

3.7 In. Sra. with maid, who answers, about lunch....They will be
home around 1330 or 1400. Set table in dining room for four people.

4.7 In. Sre. with maid, who answers. They are leaving now so
she can start fryin the fish.

After 1435, 3 June
After 1930, 3 June

5.0 In. No answer.

After 2120, 3 June

5.2 Out to 03. Time is 2253, 3 June.

From 0730, 4 June (Saturday) to 0855, 5 June 1966

After 0850, 4 June

5.5 In. Sra. with maid, who answers. Is everything all right?
Yes. Has Juanita left (for sy off)? Not yet.

After 1200, 4 June

5.7 In. Sra. with maid, who answers. Has Juanita lefty No.
Peal some potatoes to fry them...

After 1445, 4 June

6.0 In. HO with Sra., Olga, who answers. MC is her husband. HO
is going home now. HO had to come to the embassy with some thi gs
because he got the interview (arrest) today. He is coming now.

After 1640, 4 June

6.3 Out to 14-11-26. HI asks MC, who answers at Cuban Embassy,
if ????Rubio??? left. About 30 minutes ago. HO is leaving.

After 1800, 4 June

6.5 In, 4 times. No answer, complete. WO with maid, who answers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

Reel 29-BA-3
4 June 1966

- 2 -

6.5 contd.
Haid types...WO called a while ago, but got no answer. WI has been here.... Is WI going home tomorrow? Yes. WO can't go because she doesn't have money...WI will lend her money....WO is going to quit her job. WI is not happy either....WI is Enriqueta. WO will see if she can go tomorrow....

After 2130, 4 June

11.0 In. WO with Enriqueta, who answers. WO is waiting for her. She has been ringing the bell...about going home....WO is on the corner of Melchor Ocampo right now...WI just awakened....

From 0855 to 1915, 5 June (Sunday) 1966

11.2 In. WO with Juanita (maid), who answers. asks if ....? (3rd.) Is there. WI will see. Check to see (if she or he) is asleep. Juanita takes phone. Yes, someone is asleep because (he or she) had guard duty. All right.

12.0 In. WO with Juanita, who answers. Asks if Sergio is up. No, went to sleep very late. Does WO want to talk to the Sra? No, just tell him when he awakens that they are waiting for him at the Embassy.

13

12.2 Out to 14-21-26. Sergio with WO, who answers. Did WO call? Yes. They wanted to know if he was up. Sergio will be at the Embassy in 30 minutes. About sending a car for him if there is a car there in 30 minutes. There is no one there now (with a car), but will send one if one arrives.

13.0 Out to 14-13-26. Sergio asks Rico, who answers, for Lasa (ph).
WO takes phone. Hasn't no one gone by (a car)? No one is there. Sergio will go there now.

13.2 In. Lanza (or Lasa) with Olga, who answers. Has Sergio left? Yes. He waited for a while for Hugo to come for him in car. Sergio has no car. but he has left now...Sergio spent all night at Embassy on guard duty.

13.7 Out to 14-13-26. Olga with Rico, who answers. Has Sergio left? He just left.

After 1230. 5 June
After 1530 5 June

14.0 In. No answer.

Reel off at AT 14.2, 1915, 85 June 1966

031 89-BA-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Reel 39-1

- 1 -

From 0810, 1 June (Wednesday) to 0645, 2 June (Thursday) 1966

After 1100, 1 June

2.0 In. WO with WI, who answers. WO needs some pamphlets for schoolwork. She has wrong number. This is house of Amb.

2.2 In. WO with WI, who answers. (Maid types...WI is WO's mother.) Why didn't WO call her yesterday, was worried about her....about what WO has done....will come by to see her in a little bit.

After 1230, 1 June

2.5 Out to 03. Time is 1250, 1 June.

After 1500, 1 June

3.0 Out to 14-13-26. Dials without dialing tone.

Out to 14-13-26. Olga (inside) with WO, who answers at Cuban Embassy. Olga has to do an errand and will be in a little late. Remember to get ready to go "there." Olga will go, but later on. Is Olga better? A little better...grippe. Olga is at home now.

3.0 Out to 03. Time is 1519, 1 June.

After 1635, 1 June

After 2120, 1 June

3.2 Out to 03. Time is 2251, 1 June.

Reel off at RT 3.2, 0645, 2 June 1966

Reel 89-1

- 1 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Real 89-2

From 0645 to 2100, 2 June (Thursday) 1966

2.0 Out to 03, twice. No rings, complete. Time is 0737, 2 June.

After 0900, 2 June

2.2 Out to 03. Dials without dial tone.

2.2 Out to 03. Time is 1042, 2 June.

After 1210, 2 June

2.2 Out to 03. Time is 1303, 2 June.

2.5 Out to 17-89-76. WI (maid) with WO, who answers, hant Sr. Torres to go by check a stove - Manuel Todos Santos. He has not come by (although they phonedpreviously). Manuel Todos los Satos 7-798.

After 1410, 2 June

2.7 In. WO with Kata (maid), who answers. How is everything? Fine. Has child had lunch? Yes. Juanita is with child - upstairs. Had a good lunch....WO is child's mother.

After 1610, 2 June

3.0 Out to 03. Time is 1638, 2 June.

After 1830, 2 June

3.2 In. WO with WI (maid), who answers. Greetings. (WO is Ni's daughter.) How did things go? Fine. Will they go home this weekend? WO can't. Doesn't have money. WI got her money. Is Sra. going to pay her every 2 weeks? Thinks so. How much did she say her? $200. Sra told Juanita that she didn't want WI to go to WO's house. Got very angry the other day and made a scene at the embassy with WO's Sra., that it looked like she was trying to steel her maid. Made a scene in front of everyone. That is why she doesn't want WI to go to WO's house (WO works for a woman of Cuban Embassy too). WO went with the Sra. to Sears. They (people where she works) went out last night. WO was afraid. They were throwing stones from the other house. Sra. said that these were the Americans who are angry with the Cubans. That there may even be war if they continue this way (maids interpretation of U.S.-Cuba relations). WO says neither Sr. nor are. were there last night. I says that she and her husband (that is couple for whom she works) have to be on guard duty tonight and won't be home until very late. Also they are not coming to have dinner.

Sra, where WO works paid her for 15 days yesterday, but WO prefers she pay her whole month. will tell her.

Real 89-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

Heel 39-2
2 June 1966

-2-

3.2 contd.
60 thinks she won't stay long with Sra. They expect more and sore or her. They went to Sears today and walked all the way. She (Sra.) won't pay for a cab. This time el Señor took them (there), but after that and other times, never pays for a cab. A lot of walking and bo's feet are swollen from so much walking. Then, WO is not bad off there. She is alone there (doesn't work with another person), not so much work...will see about this.
O will phone WI on Saturday. Wi only goes out in the mornings. And not always...Juanita sometimes goes for chicken and tortillas...

Peel off at RT 5.0, 2100, 2 June 1966

Real 39-2

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

LIFEAT

EM-09776
TDS0314/09444-65

Travel to Mexico of Family of Emilio
Cordero Michel Dominican Exile

IBN-10084
CS-311/01530-66

El Siglo XXI, Publishing House to be
Directed by Arnoldo Orfila Reynal

MEXITOOS
IN-01912

Dissatisfaction of FVT with Max Pastor Parra
Leader of the JSC (Communist Youth)
Costa Rica

1/1/41. 2196

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

XXXX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

TO: Chief of Station, Santo Domingo

INFO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Coverage of Dominican Embassy, Mexico City

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Attached for Addressees' information and retention are copies of the transcripts of the LIFEAT coverage of the Dominican Embassy in Mexico City, reels 21 through 34 for the period 2 to 9 May 1966.

for Willard C. CURTIS

Attachments: As stated above, h/w

Distribution:

2 - COS, Santo Domingo, w/atts

Chief, WIHD, w/atts

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO: Latt

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: mn-99943

DATE: 10 May 1966

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
HCS FILE NUMBER: 50-9-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

ENILA JADA DOMINICANA.- 28-77-85.

2 mayo 66.

L2-42-T21-

1045-1730lus.-

...1.-

4000

00- - Entrada.- 1045 hrs.- (conversación iniciada)- HD GUZMAN con IIF hacen planos para verse pero GUMMAN dejó ayer el chofer.. que tenia y CARLOS no puede salir solo porque tione licencia de la Republica y que le digas al amigo que estamos como un clavo arriba de la carretera con la punta para arriba y que no hay que apurarse por la otra cuestión y que le dos un abrazo y ya sabes que estamos aquí por si no nos volvemos a ver o a hablar". IF que esté bien.- 12-

12- - Bloqueado.- 24-

24- Entrada. 1048 ars: itt pregunta que requisitos hay para sacar visa a Santo Domingo o is a trabajar por dos meses alld. MARINA pregunta si tienen algin contrato para trabajar. que si que es de una oficina de contadores para ir a hacer unas auditorias en Santo Domingo y algunas poblaciones del interior y que la ordaina esta acreditada y es la Hans Hans. MARTINA dice que hace falta una carta bancaria y otra de la oficina donde trabaja, certificado de conducta de la policia, trus fotografias y llenar un formulario y si es urgente pagar ol cable rara su contestación rapida ya que si es por oficio tarda de 20 a 25 ddas y urgente son 5 o 6 dias, y que cabe aclarar si van a trabajar para el Gobierno entences es distinto. Hr que dospuos que pase a verla le dird como están las cosas.. 59-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

59-

Salida.- MARINA reclaza los sobres que no le han llogado.
HF BERIAIDEZ dice que hoy mismo reza a dejarlos.- 74-

74-

-Bloqueado.- ruidos.- 86-

86-

Entrada.- HF por datos para visa para ir a Santo Domingo
como turista, MARINA le proporciona los datos.- 108-

108-

Salida.- (Carteros Zona Tre)- MARINA saluda al seffor
INCLAN y pregunta si hay alguna valija para la embajada. Este
dieu que no hay nada,- 118-

118-

Salida al 0) por la hora.-iloj hrs. 121-

121-

Salida. 1108 hrs.- MARIEL yor IONON. W dice que no
ostd. 127-

127-

Salida al 13-22-92.- GUDAX prepunta por el Lic. ENRIQUEZ
SAVINON. ID dice que anda por la sub-dirección. GUZAN pide
se le diga que le llomard nas tarde porque ahora sale a la calla
- 136-

136-

Entrada.- 1155 hrs. I pregunta por el Embajador, de
parte del señor GRULLON de la Republica Dominicana. TAFLA dice
quo el embajador no cata y que el puede atenderlo. Despues HF
GRULLON CORRO saluda a TAPIA y dice que ayer llegó y queria
avisarle a MARCIO si es que estaba lista la pelicula de nosotros
o sea CAÑA BILAVA para hacer las pruebas. TAPIA dice que MARCIO
Siene mas de 15 dias en Santo Desinge. GRULLON que ésta tarde
a las seis van a tener la exhibición de la pelicula para que
(heja dos)
...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

... la vean. TAPIA aclara que MARCIO tiene mes y medio en Santo Domingo. GRULLON creia que la semana pasada se habia venido para acd. TAPIA que no que sigue allf y que hay como dies o doce compañeros dominicanos a las conferencias que hay y tiene compromisos con cenas, reuniones, etc. y que veran la forma de rounirse pronto. Despues HD MAZO (7) saluda a FRANK GRULLON CORDERO, Cste dice que le manda saludos VICTOR y que anoche llogué. MAZO dico que hoy recibió una carta de FELLO y le dice que tu venias para acd y que iba a tratar en Gobernación lo de la visa. GRULON dice que ya se la dieron y ya les avisó por cable y que hoy van a tener la exhibición de la pelicula en el Condominio do los Froductores de la avenida División del Norte a las seis de la tarde. MAZ0 tratari do ostar alif pues conoce el lugar. GRULLON que trate da llevar a todos los que pueda pues es una pelicula "muy nuestra" y si algo se ofrece estoy en el Hotel Reforma. IID es ol Coronel MARCOS JORGE MORENO y dice que tambien el lo puede llamar a su casa al 49-12-92. GRULLON que está bien.-183-

183-

Entrada.- 1208 hrs.- MIGNON saluda a CERD y pregunta por MARTRA. Esta dice que acaba de salir y le avisa que ya está viviendo de nuevo en los apartamentos Carmen pues antes vivi8 dos años allf. MIGNON conoce a la dueña de los apartamentos o sea deña CARTON y lo mejor que tiene TERE ea que tiene su - tranquilidad de espiritu y no es espectadora de nada y ademla eros muy inteligente para llevar bion las cosas. TERE da las gracias y dice quo presisumente por eso lo hizo. MIGNON ride diga a MARINA a su regreso que le liaud y que desea a TERE que resuelva sus problemas de sus hijos y se vuelva a casar y cambia do tema y dice que ella se va a fin do mes para la patria. TERE (noja tres)
...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

4000 ...

...le dd gusto saber que se va y cree que ya todo esta on calma. MIGNON cree que lo pueda tocar alguna bala. TERE que nada de eso pues ella haco poco recrosd y encontro aquello muy distinto. NIGNON pregunta cual es la impresión que TERE tras de alld. Esta dice que "..buono.. puco JUAN BOSIH.. tiene la mayorín". MIGNON que ontonces nada hay que hablar y como tu sabes que JUAN y yo somos como dos hermanos, tu puedos tener la absoluta seguridad y eso no te lo digo por hoblar, porque a af no be gusta hablar muchos que si algo puedo hacer por ti, lo hare". TERE le da las gracias. MIGNON agreca "y con toda justicia porque te lo merecos". TERE sigue damio las gracias y elia bién sabe conO HIGNON se llova con los and, os dominicano৬. MIGNON sigue ofreciendo au ayuda y coruntas: "..lues... JUAN 10 primero que se va a decir.. mira vieja - porque asi me dice "vieja"-- y sientate uqui y df Lo que tu quteren", asi lo que yo pueda hacer por ti TERE basta y sobra que see madre y tengas dos hijos para que yo te aynde con todo mi corazón. TERE que gracias y gracias.. gracias.- 217-

*Bloqueado.*- 224-

Salida.- 1215 hrs.- Coronel FERNANDES pide envion un agente do seguros de la Ali para que vean su auto y llenar los requisitos o bien pasar a su domicilio que es Herodoto 30-102 y con teléfono 45-98-23. If toba nota y ofrece enviar al agentu. - 254-

Untrada.- 1234 hrs.- MF por el Corl.JORGE HORENO. TAPLA dice que no está, HF es SONIA -poro antes dijo que era HIROSLAVA- y pregunta como está. TAPIA dice que bien pero la otra noche ... (hoja cuatro)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

... ella no se quiso dormir con 61. SONIA dice que como queria "que me acostara contigo si allt estaba mi hijo, y ademas estabas muy borracho y trate una pistola que hasta de balazos le querias dar al perro.. y hasta me pusisto bion espantada y dige ..hay. en la madre..." TAFLA si recuerda algo de esc y tuvo que decirle a un chofer de taxi en la calle que se llevara su auto a su casa porqué "yo ya no podia manejar". SONIA dice que vi que estabas miy encabronado y no sabia que hacer" y que se acaba de cambiar de casa y su nuevo teléfono us 43-29-67 y que le avise lo mismo al Corl.MORENO y que alguno de ellos le preste $500.00 para acabar de cambiarse a au departaconto nuevo. TAPIA ests sin un centavo y están en espora de quo llogue "la paga".- 324-

Entrada.- 1240 hrs. de la agencia do viajes Ultra-Mar Express para datos o requisitos do visa. TAPIA proporciona los datos. 355-

Salidas ocupadas y sin contestación.- 405-

Entrada. 1250 hrs.- HS con su agor TURISITA para disculparse que ayor no lo pudo hablar pues anduvo por la Universidad. TERE por astar esperando su llamada no salió del hotel. MF se apollida CARDOSO y dice que anduvo con ANGEL y con LEONEL y que despues del futbol se fueron a casa de LIONEL y pregunta si tione dinero que le proste. TERE dice que no lo han pagado. CARDOSO necesita dinero para comprarse zapatos y quiere que TERE aunque sea consiga dinero prestado. TERE tratard de ver ai consigue porque ella tambien quiere comprarse zapatos. CARDOSO si consigue el dinero pide le llame antes de las cinco y media al 17-81-00.-479-

( hoja cinco)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

479-
Salida.- GUZMAN pide comunicarse a papeleria. MF dice que llame mas tarde porque la señora salió a comer.- 499-

499-
Salida.- GUZMAN pregunta por el Lic. ENRIQUEZ. MF dice que salió a comer y no tarda y ella le llamará en cuanto llegue. GUZMAN que sea antes de las dos porque los pasaportes que dijo ENRIQUEZ que iba a enviar no han llegado y los está esperando para sus visas de cortesia tal como lo trataron en la mañana. MF va a investigar eso y despues le avisará.- 516-

516-
Entrada.- 1323 hrs.- CRISTINA con GUZMAN y con TERE para saber si se ven mas tarde y se ponen a "cotorrear" sobre vestidos y deudas que tienen.- 562-

569-
Salida al 24-51-29.- 1333 hrs.- MARINA con MIGNON para avisar que ya está el Coronel MAURICIO FERNANDEZ en las oficinas pero si le quiero llamar a su casa es el 45-78-23 y que hay otro el de su recamara pero no recuerda bien que número es, y que le llegaron dos cartas y una es para el Patronato de las Actividades de Alta Especialización Docente del Instituto - Politecnico Nacional y otra de Santo Domingo que cree que es de NELSON ANTONIO ARCINIEGA dice que es para ella. MIGNON ofrece pasar o llamarle mañana a FERNANDEZ y recoger esas cartas.- 616

616-
Salida.- (Instituto de Cardiologia) - MARINA pregunta el teléfono de Nutrición. MF que es el 19-57-00.- 631-

631-
Salida al 19-57-00.- 1345 hrs.- (Nutrición)- MARINA pregunta por el Dr. GARCIA PATRONI. MF dice que espere un momento. MARINA espera y despues cuelga.- 684-
(hoja seis)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

4900 ..7.

684-

Entrada sin contestación.- 692-

692-

Entrada.- MF por TADIRA.- ya sa116.- 695-

695-

Entrada.- 1602 hrs.- sin contostación.- 750-

750-

Salida al 13-21-92.- 1720 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta por el
Lic. ENRIQUE. MF dice que regresa on una hora, GUZHAN le
volverá a llamar.- 767-

767-

Salida al 16-07-00.- 1725 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta por el
Dr. SCINCKER, NF dice que es la ext. S808 pero no contosta, GUZMAN
pido se le diga que le llamf.- 810-

S10-

Entrada.- 1728 hrs.- TERE pregunta que quieron con ella.
GUZMAN dice que fue don RENE quien lo llamo y quiere saber si
recogido sobro que le did TDIRA. TERE lo tiene on el cuarto
y que despues lo iban a decir con quien habia que mandarlo.
TERC pregunta al la wanga lagi. Time no sabe pues alla acabad
de llegar. Gl que entonces mañana van a wandar ese sobre
con TAPIA y que esta lacrado. TERE dice que tiene un sello de
la COPREDAL, GUMAN que asi es.- 855-

855-

Entrada.- 1730 hrs.. MF saluda a GUZMAN y pregunta que
van a touar la fria", CUMAN esta aquf trabajando y que por
oso lland a YADIRA para recoger un sobre, pero ya se soluciond.
HF si lo da stempo lo espera para tomar un cafd.- 890-

(..7.-1.2-2 inny.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

EMBAJADA DOMINICANA. 28-77-85.

2 mayo 66.

12-12-122-

1755-1824 hrs..

4889 ..1.-

Salida al 18-07-00.- 1755 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta por el Dr. SCICKER.- sir contestación.- 18-

Salida al 13-21-92.-1810 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta por el Lic. ENRIQUEZ. HP dice que espere un momento. Despues ENRIQUEZ so disculpa con "el doctor" GUZMAN porque resulta que la camioneta del banco choco y alli iban las personas que le entregarian los pasaportes. GUZMAN dice que de eso queria avisar pues llegaron a verlo a las dos y cinco con los pasaportes y ya se les dio la visa por un año con entrada y salida y asi que ya no hay problema y no se les cobro ningún centavo y cambiando de tema sobra el asunto que le consulto en la mañana, ENRIQUEZ que lo tiene pendiente pero uno de los quo comisionó para eso sa enfermo pero mañana sin falta se lo informa y ya recuerda que es sobre los datos do CORTINA PORTILLA ( del Lic. EUSTAQUIO CORTINA PORTILLO de quien piden datos confidenciales para el gobierno douinicano). CUZMAN que si y que tiene entendido que uno de los hermanos de CORTINA es director de la Financiera. ENRIQUEZ va a pedir mayores datos y mañana se les inforward. GUZMAN cambia de tema y pregunta si fud a ver al Dr.SCHEKER. ENRIQUEZ dice que no, pero que le consiguió la cita con SANCHEZ MIRELDS (del ISSTE) y no se lo pudo comunicar porque tuvo que atender a la delegación bolga y todo el dia estuvo con ellos. GUZMAN que entonces mañana le llamari.- 44- (hoja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

4980 ...2..

44- Salida sin contestación.- varias veces.- y ocupado.-75-

75- Salida al 16-52-86.- 1324 hrs.- (Seguros) - GUZMAN pide
comunicarse a Papeleria, preguntar por LUCHITA GAMAS. IF dice
que espere un momento. Despues MF dice que nadie contesta y si
quiere lo puede dar recado. GULAN que le diga que le llame a
la embajada.- 122-

122- Entrada, LUCHITA con su amor GURIAN para disculparse que
a la una salid a comer y hace rato ya iba de salida y que
ahora que lo vea le dira como hacerle para le llame sin pro-
blemas. GURMAN pasard por ella a las siede "y adios chula".-134-

(..2.-L2-2 nayo 66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

EMIA JADA DOMINICANA.- 28-77-85.

3 mayo 66.

L2-M2-123-

0910-1125 hrs..

00- Entrada sin contestación.- 04-

04- Salida al 39-60-50.- 0910 hrs.- HORTENSIA Pregunta por su amor ARMANDO RODRIGUEZ, pero le informan que no est4.- 11-

11- Salida.- HORTENSIA con su otro amor RAPL para reprocharle que ayer la dejo esperando. RAFAEL no pudo y se citan para el lunes a la mista hora y mismo lugar.- 23-

23- Salida al 22-68-29.- 0944 hrs.- HORTENSIA pronunta por HERNANDEZ. Despues GUMAN pregunta a HERNANDES si ya tiene las cosas del Coronal. Date dice que no que hasta exañana pasard a dejarlos, GUEMAN que pase hoy por la franquicia de los cigarrillos. 42-

42- -Bocina descolgada y salida ocupada.. 55-

55- Entrada.- 1030 hrs.- Coronel FERNANDEZ saluda a MARINA y pide diga a don RENE que no podrá llegar a la oabajada porque siguo enferno. Despues GUZHAN dice que se cuido por el raal tiempo y que si algo au ofrece le mandari avisar y aderas hay una invitación de la Procidencia de la Republica para la toma o jura de la bandora el dia 5 en el sucalo de la ciudad.. 80- (hoja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

4990 ..2..

80-
Salida al 12-25-78.- 1036 hrs.- (Oficina Internacional del Trabajo)- CARITA de parte de GUZMAN pide hablar con el Director o Sub-Director. MF dice que espere un momento. Despuos GUZMAN saluda a GERALDO DE FOLLO EBOLI Director General y dico que acaban de recibir un oficio de la Cancilleria de Santo Domingo para solicitar la inscripción del sefior PEDRO NOTA HORILLO que es Director General do Servicios de Empleos y Registro de Desocupados del Ministerio del Trabajo y que figura cono candidato del pafs al curso regional de los servicios de oupleos en el Ferd para el nos de Agosto y quiere saber ai hay que mandar algin oficio o nota. EBOLI que solo una nota confirmando esta conversación telefonica y que por vuelta de corroo notifique a Santo Domingo que os indispensable que el gobierno me made los formularios específicos, GUZMAN dico ya tenerlos en la mano y se los podrá proporcionar. ZBOLI que esta biển y que el mientras mandard un cable a Ginebra notificando esto ingreso para continuar con los formularios en la selección de candidatos. GUMAN que gracias.- 129-

129-
salida. (Air France)- GUZMAN pregunta el vuelo 700 qua ruta tiene. que es el 702 y salo Mexico-N.Y.-Paris- Nina y zale cartos, jueves, viernes, nabados y domingos y hasta el 31 de mayo es el 702 pero despues cambia al 700 sin llegar a Nisa.-
142-

142-
Entrada.- 1051 hra.- 10 secreturto de la Embajada do Corea premte por  para agradecerlo a cooperacion para acti a la cerconta ann lus crodonetales de la bo dada de repon y qulere saber onando en in toma do posesión Presidencial. GUIAN dice que las elecciones con el primero de Junio, pore no pa
(haja dua


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

... sabe que dia es la toma de posesión. MF que quiere saber la fecha para poder mandar una delegación de su país a esa toma. GUZMAN ofrece comunicárselo a su tiempo. MF que gracias.
- 168-

168- Salida al 03 por la hora.- 1053 hrs.- y bocina descolgada.-
- 175-

175- Salida al 09.- 1056 hrs.- sin contestación.- 182- MARINA desea se le informe sobre unas llamadas que tuvieron a Santo Domingo despues de 29 de abril. MF que llame al 18-03-20.- 187-

187- Salida al 18-82-20.- 1053 hrs.- sin contestación.- 196- MARINA desean saber el importe de llamadas de larga distancia a Santo Domingo a partir del 29 de abril pasado. MF dice que necesitan que ellos den las fechas y lugares a donde llamaron.
-209-

209- Salida.- MF pregunta el teléfono de la Canada Dry. MF que es el 17-31-27.- 221-

221- Entrada.- 1102 hrs.- MF de una agencia de viajes pide datos para visa a pasaporte mexicano. THE le proporciona los requisitos.- 247-

247- Salida al 43-57-50.- 1105 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta sobre el asunto o pedido para el Coronel FERNANDEZ. MF dice que todavía no hacen la nota y que mande a su chofer a las cinco a recoger el pedido en las oficinas de Diagonal San Antonio en el 5to piso. GUZMAN que está bien y en todo caso mandará al hijo del coronel.
- 267-

(hoja tres)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

1988

17-

Salida ocupada. 274-

274-

Salida al 19-56-10.- 1111 hrs.- sin contestación.- ocupada.

- 300- (Instituto de Cardiologia)- GUZMAN progunta por el
  Dr. PEGUERO de Consulta Externa. If dice que espero un momento.

-346- IM GRULLON saluda a PEGUERO y pregunta como se siente.
Dato dice que ya un poco mejor. PEQUENO que hay que hacer
planes para ir mañana a Zacahuisco y que se ponga de acuerdo
con QUZDAN quo tione auto, y propita si le ha llegado-algo para
61. GRULLON que solo una correspondencia do credito educativo
y tambien jara of Dr. ER ALVAREZ porque cree que os dinero.
PROUERO que si es asi se lo recoja y sa lo lleve. Despues PEGUERC
saluda a TATLA. Esta pregunta con quier comento lo de la otra
nocho quo anduvieron con las viejas". PEGUERO dice que con
nadio, TAPIA dice que ayer le lland la mujor "esa" (SONIA)
y que hay que organizarse para verla unfñana "pues oreo que toda-via esti borracha".- risas. Quedan de verse mañana a las alot0
y media en casa de TEATRO yue did tombien PATRONI. Despues
GRULLOH le informa que tambien hay un sobre de la Dirección
de Bellas Artes y de Educación para pedir datos do sua bouns
para su credito educativo y que asti firmado por el Vico-linintre
do Educación RAFAEL GONZALE TIRADO, PIGUPRO de entera y pide
co la theve para ver oso asunto y llenar el cuestionario.-419

- Bloqueatu.- 423.

419-

423-

Salida al 12-16-39.- 1121 hrs.- CARITA con HECTOR RENDON
(wricon) para saber al ee von hoy por la tarde, HECTOR
diu que esta tran autor ing tardes. CATA quiero ir a
la Villa a dejarle unas coena quo lo llegaron a SALVAINOR (RENDON)
- 440-
  ( hoja cuatro)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

440-

Entrada.- 1123 hrs.- RF de la ANCOSAD pregunta por ΤΑΡΙΑ.
CAT dice que espere. Despues d' cobrador de COSAD para saber si puedo pasar a dejar sus recibos. La dice que está muy flojo de dinero y le pagard los tres juntos en cuanto lloguo su cheque. I que el reglamente es que si se acumulan tres recibos se le dard de baja. TA! Li dice que se los lleve juntos. KF que es dificil localisarlo ni por teléfono. TATIA que antes de venir le llamo para preparar su dinero.- 464-

(..5.-2-3 cay.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

MAJADA DOMINICANA.-26-77-65.

3 mayo 66

L2-12-124-

1218-1344 hrs..

00-

15- Entrada sin contestación fuera y bloqueado.- 15-

Salida al 35-56-08.- 1210 10.- (oficialia Mayor de Gober-
nación) GUZILAN pregunta por in Licenciada HONTERO para salu-
darla y avisarlo que ayer le mando unas notas. MONTERO dico
quo ospore un momento. Despues ilf dico que sobre sus peticiones
do visa de ANTONIO JORGE GARCIA no está localizando y creo que
para mañana este lista y de los otros tres ya están haciendo
los oficios y safiana wismo pueden pasar por ellos. GUZMAN que
por favor y que sobre todo el dol sobrino del agregado militar.
HP TOLLANO SANCICH TEON dice que est hic.- 41-

41- Salida sin contestación.- 60-

60- Entrada.- 12:46 100.- hija de la señora ALVAREZ progunta
por FRANK TAULA para saludarlo y explicar que el paquete que
Le da a su hor. s una trarrera casar tigres. TAPIA
que entonces el va a infortar u Relaciones porque el no va a
poder pedir una oxoneración de fuero diplomatico en un bulto
que contiene una cosa staple ya que pueden creer que estoy
notiondo contrabando y si fuera ropa o alguna cosa de comer lo
harfa, pero on "se caso 80 tienen que facer cerca de mil dolares
de inumato por wis simpio trama para caceria, ir que entonces
de todos modos gracias.- 83- ( hoja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

83- Entrada sin contestación.- 87-

87- Entrada.- 1505 ars.- HP pregunta por TIRESITA PEÑA. TAFIA dice que espere.. cortan.- 98-

98- Salida al tahaksaxtalaka.- (Centro de Capacitación)-
TERE PEL pregunta por el maotro TONG16- cortan.- 112-

112- Salida sin contoztucion.- 117-

117- Salida al 13-04-40.- 1210 hrs.- BARTA progunta el precio do los cubiertos que vio el anuncio on Novedades. HF que naltó a cobus el personal y os mejor que llomo mas tarde porque al'n no sabe.- 124-

124- Entrada.- 1311 hra.- HP por GUZMAN, CHUITA dice que no esta y que si deja recado.- 131-

131- Salida ocupada.. y cin contestación.- 141-

141- Salti al 4-10-02.- 1321 hrs.- MARINA Saluda a LULY y pregunta 2000 estado .. bl.. bla.. asuntos familiares. - y falca da sirvientas.- 210-

210- Salida al 19-03-200- 1328 hrs.- ooumado.- 213- HARIMA proginta por la señora SUNUZ PGA para salumurla. Esta dico que no 10 garun y que sigue sintiendose onferma. MARINA dico que maisha pusden pasar por ella para llevaria a Cardiologia y le den una revisada.. bla.. bla... sin importancia.- 241- (hoja dos


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# 1904

21-

Entrada.- 1330 bre.- *MF* de la Agregaduria Militar de la Embajada de Venezuela, quiere saber si el Agregado Militar de la Penisicana ve a ir a la Asociación de Agregado Militares. MARINA dice que no están los militares y que mañana le podrá informar. *MF* que resulta que estan on reunión los agregados y lo están esperando. MARINA va a tratar de localizarlo para darlo su recado.- *MF* quo ella estil en ol 14-30-20.- 261-

261-

Salida al 49-12-22.- 1333 hrs.- MARINA pregunta por el Coronel MARCO JORGE HONENG, *MF* EDULIMA dice que no estd. ID es TAPE TESA y dice que llamaron de la Asociación de - Agregados Hilltaros y que los estan esperando o que llamo al 14-36-20. DEVILA que esti bion.-286-

286-

Salida 21 03 por la hora.- 1334 ars.- 200-

290-

Salida al 12-55-90.- 1337 hrs.- (Suits Soperador)- CARMITA pregunta por el señor DCL OLMO de la oficina de Turismo. *MF* dice que espere un mower.to, Cospues lo dice que no está. - 307-

307-

Entrada. 1338 hrs. *MF* por GUZMAN. HORTENSIA dico quo no está. *MF* LIEUNEY (7) pregunta ontonces por TAPIA. HOSTENSIA dico que espere un momento. Despues LIBOY saluda a LA y pregunta como está la familia. TAPLA que bien, LIDONEY dice que va a mandar a su esposa a Puerto Rico a que la operen alld porque asi se sientcecon Las tranquilidad y aquí tiene muchos problemas y quiere arreglar los documentos sacando pasaporte dordricano. TAFLA dice que no hay probleem y que ol tione quo hacer un permiso para que su esposa salga o sucando un acta notarial. TAPIA ne anbe muy bien some está ese per

(noja troe)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

... es mejor que se legitime bien o saque un pasaporte mexicano
de la niña porque sino despues van a descubrir el truco de
que cuando llego o donde está la visa de la niña, etc. y hay
que aclarar que ella nació en México. LIBONEY que está bien y
pregunta si TAFLA sale de vacaciones. TAPIA dice que no podrá
salir. LIDONEY si algo se le ofrece le llamará a la embajada.
- 353-

353- Entrada.- 1342 hrs.- HF con su amor YADIRA para avisarle
que se podrán ver hasta mas tarde porque tiene mucho trabajo.
- 372-

372- Salida ocupada.- 331-

391- Salida al 11-84-20.- 1344 hrs.- YADIRA pregunta por TAPIA
primero y des pues por la señora AIDA. HF dice que espere un
momento.- YADIRA espera y cuelga.- 410-

410- Salida ocupada.- 414-

414- Entrada sin contestación.- 419-

419- Entrada.- RENE FIALLO pregunta por TERE IBEA. HORTENSIA
dice que espere un momento. Despues RENE dice a TERE que lo
espere un momento en unos 10 o 12 minutos para poner unas cosas
al escritorio de TAPIA y de GUZMAN.- 437-

437- Entrada.- HF por FRANK. FIALLO dice que no está. HF es
NATACHA SANCHEZ DE TAPIA ( esposa de FRANK TAPIA) y saluda a
RENE y se despiden familiarmente.- 455- ( hoja 4-12-3 may.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

ENDAJADA DOMINICAA-23-77-95.

3 mayo 66.

L2-M2-T25-

1724-1730 hrs.-

..1..

5001

00- Salida al 45-98-23.- 1724 hrs.- GUZMAN saluda a la niña AURORA y pregunta por su papa el Coronel MAURICIO FERNANDEZ. Esta dice que está en el baño. Despues doda JOSEFA ( esposa de FERNANDEZ) dice que espere un momento. Luego GUZMAN pregunta a "CHIFU FIONANDEZ como se siente. Este dice que bien. GUMAN pregunta si puede mandar a su hijo CARLOS por las cosas O GUZHAN mismo va por ellas. FERNANDEZ que mejor vaya el porque CARLOS no está. GUZHAN que está bion.- 24-

24- Salida.- GUZMAN pregunta por la señorita. If dice que le llare al otro telefons.- 30-

30- Salida al 43-58-77.-1730 hrs.- (Importadora Mercantil Mexican)- GUZHAN pregunta si ya tiene listo el pedido del coronel FERNANDEZ. MF dice que en cinco minutos estará listo. GUZLAN mandara a su chofer con una tarjeta a recoger todo. MF que está bien y quo es Diagonal San Antonio 1116-segundo piso.. -47-

47- Entrada sin contestación.- 31-

- - - - - - (18- L2-3 my.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CHLAJATA DOMINICANA. 28-77-35..

4 mayo 66.

L2-12-123-

0930-1032 hrs..

5001..2.-

51- Salidas ocupadas.- 60-

60- Salida al 22-62-29.- 0230 ars.- GUN pregunta a HORNÁNDEZ si matana se ven o puede pasar hoy a la obajada. Fard pagar a verlo mas tarde a an cuarto del hotel. GUZMAN dice que ya no usti en el hotel sino en un departamento de la calle Peten #347-5. CORNANDEZ pasard mañana entre dies a once a verlo.-86-

86- Entrada.- 0933 hrs.- if por el horario de atención de parte de la Volkswagen de México. GUZMAN que de diez a dos de lunes a viernes solamente.- 20-

90- Salida al 35-51-37.- 0940 hrs.- GUZMAN desean comprar 100 ejemplares de la Cartilla Di Lomática escrita por LEONARDO - ENRI, dice que se le pasará el edido a la persona que se encarga de los pedidos. -11.3-

113- Entrada.- 0946 hrs.-IIF reclara el page de renta de las - oficinas donde está la Imbajada y se debe el mes de abril y el mes que cursa. GUZMAN no sabe de eso y es mejor llamar el jueves porque hoy casi ni vendrán las emplocdas.- 127-

12ター ( hoja dos)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

127-

Salida al 10-03-17.- 1000 lira.- CARITA pregunta por
RIGUEL HERNANDEZ. MF que ha de ser MIGUEL GONZALEZ pero no está.
CARMITA dice que hay un encargo que entregarlo y que se comunique
a la embajada. MF que está bion.- 152-

152-

Entrada.- 1013 lura.- HF por GUZMAN para avisar que la
persona oncargada de surtir los cartillas diplomdticas no -
contesta su teléfono y tratará de estarle llamando para surtir
su pedido.- 163-

163-

Entrada.- 1015 hrs. Dr. CABRERA saluda a GUZMAN y pregunta
por TAPIA. GUZMAN dice que no está. CABRERA queda de llamar hoy
con TAPIA para el asunto de una carta que le iba a hacer. GUZMAN
dirá a TAPIA sobre su asunto. CABRERA dice que pasará como a
la una a la cubajada.- 172-

172-

Entrada.- IIF pregunta la dirección del Consulado. MARINA
que es Durango 217 esquina con Valladolid.- 177-

177-

Entrada. MIGUEL GONZALEZ se reporta y pregunta por CARMITA.
Esta dice que ella le llamó para avisarle que tiene una carta
y un litro de ron que le quiere entregar. MIGUEL pasará a la
embajada.- 187-

187-

Salida al *4-65-70*.- 1032 hrs.- YDIRA con su amiga VICTORIA
para saber en que para la novela de la sirvienta.. bla.. bla..
- Y despues comentan sobre al mal tiempo que hace y que llueve
  mucho "al carajo".- bla.. bla... YDIRA recibió carta de su
  mamá que está en Santo Domingo y que se siente enferma de la
  presión.- se despiden.. 244-

( hoja tres)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

Salida ocupada.- 253-

5001

Entrada.-lit con MARINA para saber si ha llamado MARCOS. Esta dice que no y comentan lo de una pelicula de DOLORES DEL RIO.

- 269-

(...- L2-4 mayo 66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

ECLIJADA DOLONGANA-25-77-85.

4 mayo 66.

L2-N2-726-

1115-1236 hrs..

..1.-

5000

00- - Blopmade.- 06-

06- Salida al 18-30-40.- 1115 hrs.- (Viana y Cia)- pide comunicarse a reparaciones. NF dice que est ocupada la linea y que si no era. No que ustf bien.- Despues cuelga.- 77-

77- Entrada.- 1125 hrs.- NF con MARTINA para saludarla y comentar sobre el mal tiempo que hay en la ciudad y quedan de verse mas tarde.-74-

94- Entrada.-1130 hrs.- NF por el Coronel JORGE MORENO. MARINA dice que no ha llegado.- 97-

97- Entrada.- NF por el Coronel JORGE. MARINA dice que no ha llegado y solo estd PERMANENTE.- 102-

102- Salida al 18-50-80.- 1133 hrs.- (Viana y Cia)- NF otra vez por el departamento de recepciones. NF dice que espere un momento.- despues cuelga.- 146-

146- Salida al 18-50-40.- 1137 hrs.- (Viana)- NF quiere reportar que el refrigerador que compro tiene el foco fundido.- NF dice que espere un momento. - cuelgan.- 190-

(hoja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

199-
Salida.- 1143 hrs.- (Viana)- Dice tener tres horas queriendo tratar el asunto de su refrigodator y nadie le hace caso. Dice que ella pasa la comuntención al departamento pero nadie contesta.- despues cuelga.- 247-

247-
Salida sin contestasten.- y ocupada.- 310-

312-
Entrada.- 1153 hrs.- RF con MARINA para saber si ha llegado o llamado LIRCOS. Cote dice que no, y comentan sobre el mal tioupo que hay en la ciudad y que dicen que en Santo Domingo está inundado, pero no lo creen, aún den de 11amarne mas tarde.

344-
Salida al 12-16-30.- 1157 hrs.- (Petrolizadora)- CARMITA pregunta por HECTOR TEMPOR. Dice que espere un momento. Después CTC con HECTOR (el de la von de maricón) para saber que hay de su hermano SALVADOR (novio de CARITA). Este dice que ha tratado de localizacione y no lo ha visto y va a ver af el viernes se reunen.- 393-

393-
Entrada.- 1201 hrs.- RF Ing. NAVARRO pregunta por el Coronel MARINO. Dice que ne ha venido y si gusta dejar recado en caso que venga, P.I.B.I.T que le diga que lo llame a al telefono 13-08-25 o 13-65-15 y que le diz que estará de seis a ocho de la noche y para mayor dato le diga que es el cuñado del Coronel MARINO. MARINO que está bien.- 419-

419-
Entrada.- RF por el Crl. Moreno. Dice cree que ya no regrese hoy.- 424-

(hoja dos)

5000


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

424-

Entrada.- Dr. CABRERA pregunta por el Cónsul TAPIA. MARINA dice que espere un momento. Después informa que ya lo dijo a TERE le haga la carta, y puede pasar por ella a eso de la una y media. CABRERA, que está bien.- 443-

444-

Entrada.- por el Corl. JORGE. KARINA dice que no ha llegado.- 447-

447-

Salida.- (Despacho Lomeli)- MARIN desea saber sobre los departamentos que se rentan casi frente a la Embajada Dominicana. NF dice que ya no rentaron.- 460-

460-

Salida ocupada.- y sin contestación.-515-

515-

Entrada.- NF ALVAREZ se reporta, ACOSTA dice que le llegó una carta de crédito educativo pero dinero no le ha llegado, ALVAREZ tiene desde febrero que no recibe dinero, y que mejor la carta se la abra porque no puede ir a recogerla. MARINA la abre y da lectura de su contenido de la cual piden rinda una declaración sobre sus ingresos de postgraduado y en que hospitales está haciendo sus servicios, con fines de renovar contrato de becado. Y que esas cartas llegaron igual para TEGUERO, FENA POLO, YUDERES Y GARCIA PATRONI. ALVAREZ que gracias.- 576-

576-

Salida ocupada.- 392-

592-

Salida.- (Embajada de Haití)- REYES confirma la asistencia de REINE FIALLO para visitar al Embajador de ese país hoy en la tarde a la reunión invitada, NF que está bien.- 603-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

605-

Salida vespada.- 622-

622-

Salida.- §§gixxx.- (Servicio Internacional)- MARINA pre- gunte si hay algún mensaje o cable para la embajada. INF que no hay ninguno y que llame al 19-09-06.- 650-

650-

Salida al 17-09-06.- MARINA pregunta si hay algún cable para la embajada.-INF dice que no hay nada.- 678-

678-

Salida.- 1234 hrs.- (Carteres Zona uno)- MARINA pregunta por INCIMI.  pero saber si hay alguna valija para la embajada. INF dice que no hay nada.- 699-

699-

Salida al 40-12-92.- 1226 hrs.- MARINA pregunte por el coronel TORRENO.: dice que no está, MARINA pide le diga a su papá (de IT INTRE) ... ( SI TREGONA LA OPERACION POR ROTURA DE LA CINTA MAGNETICA).- 730-

(...-12-4 mayo.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

4 ayo có.

48-77-85.

12-20-27-

1259-1529 hrs..

..1..

5008

00- Salida sin contestación.- 05-

05- Salida al P-6-50.- 1239 tus.- HORTENSIA reguita por su
amor ARGIZ para pedirle of dinere de la renta.
A se lo leva el viernes porque hoy to torpo dinero.-31-

31- Entrada, con MARIM para saber si 18 HIROOS. MARINA
dice que no vine porque tiene auto desconto y que despues
1land a su casa y dijo que no estaba, Msa a MISTE a las
dos pare in a cocer Juntas.

42- Salida al 33 por la hora. 1000 hrs.- 45-

45- 1313 hrs.

Om dice qe
no vire hoy.we ertonces co O YADIRA dice
Ches. Des comenta con que MARCES es
wa bado ceas toda domipicane to estés ronde que pase
por via pera Liever os es a Gobernels. FAPIA dice que
le puede liar a sa casa al 49-12-22. R
Cice que ya lo
Cine y as solo le urge su astate sire visa de LARTINA
RICUR que tarne cas de un tres quo na sale : que si pidió
la vise code entonces ne va a salir lunes. risus. MARTA
terasa conque le liarapi a scars. (1:03 ១)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

69-

Entrada. - I? equivocado.- 74-

5008

74-

Entrada.- IF por GUZMAN. HORTUUSIA dice que ya salió y tal vez regrese mas tarde. 10' que le diga que llamó la señorita GAMAS (CHELITO GAMAS amor de GUZMAN)-.79-

79-

Entrada.- 1320 hrs.- REINE FIALLO pregunta por GUZMAN. MARINA dice que ya salió y que regrosa al rato, FIALLO que entonces con TERESITA. Despues FIALLO pregunta a TERE si terminó el texto del mensaje cifrado que hicieron anoche con LEONTE. TERE se lo entregé ya a GUZMAN, FIALLO que vea si no se ha enviado, porque tambien dejó en el escritorio de GUZMAN... CORTAN,
- fuera.- 25-

95-

Entrada.- FIALLO continua con TERE y pide vea si GUZMAN comparó el texto corregido en la parte final del cable y que se refiere a una constancia conjuntamente presentada por varios países tales como Argentina, Bolivia, Brasil, Colombia, Panamá, Venezuela y Dominicana; porque yo no sé si al corregir puse todos los países. TERE va a revisar eso porque ella no recuerda haber visto eso... SE CORTI.- 114-

114-

1326 hrs.
Entrada.- FIALLO continua con TERE e insiste que vea esa copia corregida en el escritorio de GUZMAN y vea si hay otros papeles en que hicieron algunas correcciones porque tomo que haya omitido alguna cosa en el cable y que también tenga bajo su custodia hasta que llegue GUZMAN y en caso que no llegue los meta en alguna de las gavetas del escritorio, TERE que esté bien. Despues FIALLO dice a TAPIA que bajando las escaleras me saltó un pensamiento desagradable pero que no tuvo tiempo de

(hoja dos)
...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

... regresar para advertir que GUZMAN tuviera cuidado de dejar
el mensaje en clave que deje sobre su escritorio, ya que TAPIA
recordará cuando en días pasados se le llamó de Cuernavaca
para que proporcionara la clave del descifrador, entonces debió
GUZMAN tener cuidado de ese trabajo en la inteligencia de que
TAPIA también se diera cuenta de ese trabajo, para no prestarse
a malas interpretaciones. TAPIA dice que "yo lo tengo a usted
en un concepto demasiado elevado para dejar se andar con niñerías
y cualquier cosa que suceda, quiero que sepa que jamás yo pre-
guntaré porque fue, ni tendré porque pensar mal de usted", o sea
que para mí es usted uno de los hombres que he conocido y usted
lo sabe en muchas ocasiones en su presencia y en su ausencia.
RENE dice que dado a las circunstancias de sus ausencias quiere
tener en TAPIA un amigo. TAPIA rio y dice que él puedo depositar
toda la confianza que gusto y que él trabajará junto y de acuerdo
y que no soy el tipo que anda con niñerías y esas cosas. RENE
lo sabe y agradece sus conceptos.- 165-

Entrada.- 1329 hrs.- IF con YADIRA para hacer planes a
salir a comer hoy o cenar por la noche entre las amigas de -
siempre o sino mañana que no trabajan por ser día festivo.-203-

Entrada.- EMILIO CORDERO dice a TERRY que GUZMAN le pidió
le dijera que el cable que lo ayude en la mañana a pasar y si
a las dos no ha llegado GUZMAN por él, que entonces lo mande
con MONTERRISA a Gobernación que es en donde están ahorita.
TERRY que don RENE le dijo que revisara ese cable si estaba
completo de los países en una corrección y que RENE ordenó dejara
ese cable en una gaveta del escritorio de mismo RENE, así que
es mejor que GUZMAN le llame para ver que hacer.- 228-

(hoja tres)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

225-
Entrada.- IR con TM para citarse en casa de ella por la
tarde.- 242-

242-
Salida al 03 por la hora.- 1343 hrs.- 244-

244-
Entrada.- GUZMAN pregunta novedades. HORTENSIA que le devolvieron el pasaporte que le dió y las franquicias las tuvo que llevar a Relaciones y hasta el viernes se las devuelven.

- Despues GUZMAN con TERE. Pato dice que lo que le debo GUZMAN a copiar lo va para el sfrarto, porque don ??? tiene y le dijo si ya lo había pasado y que revisara si estaban completos los paisano y que si GUZMAN no estaba que los dejara en una gaveta. GUZMAN está de acuerdo y el pasador Care 268-

268-
Salida.- MERINO con IR para saludarla y decirle que ayer por la tarde le estivo llamado para invitarla a salir. IR dice que no salió y que el telefono para nada ti... bl... bl...

- y planea para mañana que es dia festivo y uno no trabajen.-331-

331-
Entrada.- IR por YDIMA para saber al van a salir por la tarde. YDIMA acepta. IR se llama VICTORIA.- 354-

...
(04-12-4 may.60)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

ENILIJADA DOMINICANA.-28-77-83.

4 mayo 66.

L2-H2-T2S-

1823-1924 hrs..

..1..

00- Entrada.- 1825 hrs.- sin contestación.-MF pregunta por su "papi", pore se equivoοδ.- 06-

06- Salida ocupada y bocina descolgada.- 20-

20- Salida al 19-02-09.- 1844 hrs.. GUZMAN pregunta a donde tiene que hablar para hacer nigwas aclracionen sobre la llegada do cables internacionales. M dice que llatum 01 19-08-06.-36-

36- Salida al 19-02-06.- 1344 hrs.- OUZHAN qutore sabor si hay algún cable procedente de Santo Domingo. MF que llame ul 19-09-06.- 41-

41- Salida al 19-09-06.- GUDA quiere saber si ha llegado algún cable de Santo Domingo. IP dice que no ho Uogado noda pero en tanto lo tongan so lo enviarán a la webbjada. GUZMAN que en todo caso a la suite Coperador. Hi quo watd bien.- 53-

53- Entrada.- 1924 hrs.- LUCHITA GAICS pregunta a su amor GUZMAN si ee van a ver. Date dice que todavia tiene mucho trabajo y pregunta si se acords del counto de aquel sellor. CIELO que si pero que es conecido por otros lados de la Financiere pere alli nadie lo conoce, poro ello tiene una tarjote de un des; acho que so dedica a investigar personas, GUZAN dice que uno de los

( boja uno)

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

71-

... ...2.-
... heruanos trabaja en la Financiora, KNXIN LUCHITA que ahora
que lo vea le entregard esa tarjota. GUZMAN te llamard a su casa
despues de las seis y media.- Y no tengo para cuando salir ya
que no tienen cono esclavo. - 71-

Entradas sin contestación.- 88-

88-
Salidas sin contestación.. y ocupadas.- 107-


-------------------(..2.- 1.2- 4 may.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

EMILA JADA DOMINICANA.- 28-77-85.

5 mayo 66.

L2-2-T28-

1139-1236 hrs..

...3..

107- Salida.. GUZMAN saluda a HERNANDEZ y dice que va a ootar
en la embajada hoy. HERNANDEZ le randard su podido y pregunta
ai el tiene la cuenta del Coronel PERNAMBUCH. GUZMAN no esta
veguro puro avis como mil cionto schonta. HERNANDEZ tratará de
pasar cuanto antes a verlo. GUMAN lo espera antes de las
once. 122-

123- Entradas sin contestación.- 141-

141- Salida.- (Suits Emporador) - GUZMAN pregunta por RENE FLALLO.

Mr dice que acaba da salir.- 154-

154- Cr.trada.- IF RENE FIALLO dico estar llamando donde hace rato
y nadio contesta. GUZMAN dice que el contestaba poro nadie lo
hacia fuere y que el le blaan al Hotel para avisarle que s30
rocthis us cable confirmando lo de in focha que se mando en el
otro cable, y os junio. RENE dice que sa alegra y que pasard al
rato a in embajada para vor eso sobre lo que ayer sa estuvo eacu-
chando y la razón a las reservas finales y ademas dando cuenta
por si hay alguna presión de parte do ellos "alld con los paises
intorosadoa" ya que seria algun error lamentable o un mal onten-
dido de compofieros. A que est bien.- FIALLO adonas comenta
que anoche lo llaud MARTA JOSEFA la esposa de FERNANDEZ CAMINERO

(heja tres)

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

..4..

..y le dijo que habia extrañado su ausencia y que ofrecio mandarle un cable y tambien ofrecio acompañarla hoy y para ese caso aunque sea se van en un taxi para ayudarla, GUZAN que esta bien.- 204-

204-

Entrada.- 1139 hrs.- I.D.- pregunta por el Lic. NARCIO VELOZ MIGICLO. RENE FIALLO dice que no esta en México ni regresará al país. MF pregunta entonces por la señora DE VELOZ. RENE que tambien se fue a Santo Domingo. MF pregunta quien se quedo en su lugar. RENE dice "tienen el gusto de hablar con el que se encargo de la Embajada y soy RENE FIALLO Encargado de Negocios y Ministro Plenipotenciario".. 10 dice que le habla HARUJA FEXEIRO DE LLAVONA de padres gallegos y dominicana de nacimiento y hace un mes y medio mando a la ciudad de México porque ella vive en Torreón, Coahuila; dos pasaportes de sus hijos para renovarlos y con a nombre de MARJA ISABEL Y JOSE ANTONIO LLAVONA TEDEIRO y resulta que son conos de 43 años y ellos quieron ir a Santo Domingo y quiero tener la seguridad de que están en la embajada porque los mando con un español VICENTE VIDARETTA = es VILLARDEL y ademas ella quiere ir a Santo Domingo porque ella es española de nacimiento no dominicana y tiene que renovar sus documentos que no Vengen el 6 de Julio y sus hijos si son dominicanos con domicilio en calle Abelardo Rodrigues Urdaneta 11 en Santo Domingo muy cerca de donde viven los padres de MARCIO VELOZ. RENE ofrece investigar eso y se lo inforará despues. HARUJA dice que olla vive en la Avenida Matran 4580 Colonia Jardin en Torreón o el teléfono de su esposo que es dueño del café colon y se llama JOSE MANUEL LLAVONA FERNANDEZ - español-, con telefono 2-74-75. RENE que está bien y que va a hacer lo posible por resolver su problema.

-356-

(hoja cuatro)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

356-

Salida.- (Apartamentos Carmen)- GUZMAN pide el departamento
28 con la señora TERESITA PEÑA. MT dice que salió.- 372-

372-

Salida al 02.- 12.- 1225 hrs.- GUZMAN quiere hacer una
llamada a Torreón con cargo al 2-74-75 con la señora HARUJA
FEIXEIRO DE LLAVONA o su esposo JOSE MANUEL LLAVONA FERNANDEZ.
NF toma nota y dice que espere un momento.- Despues GUZMAN
Informa a la señora HARUJA que los pasaportes que dice que
mandó con un señor ya le fueron visados hace dos días y todos
sus trámites quedaron arreglados. HARUJA dice que la señora
esposa de NOROTO VADOZ es hermana de una cuñada que ella tiene
y por eso se valió de enviar los pasaportes a visar. GUZMAN
dice que ya quedaron autorizados sus visas y una persona los
recogió y los llevó tal vez para Torreón. HARUJA que está bien
y que gracias.- (líneas cruzadas) - Y HARUJA reconoce a LEONTE
como hermano de JOSE y de JAIME y que ella es muy amiga de
doña JOSEFA mamá de LEONTE.. bla.. bla... Despues se ponen a
platicar sobre las amistades y la familia que ambos son -
conocidos.- 448-

448-

Entrada.- 10 Lic. ARRIETA por el Corl. MARCOS JORGE. GUZMAN
dice que fué a la ceremonia del zocalo a una jura de bandera
del Ejercito Mexicano y no vendrá.- 435-

455-

Salida al 14-02-76.- 1236 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta "por su
señorita Coronel y etc.. TAPIAN". NF pregunta de parte de quien.
GUZMAN que "de la embajada de Nigeria". Despues GUZMAN saluda
a TAPIA y dice que le quizo llevar sus mariachis para sus
mañanitas. TAPIA ríe. GUZMAN lo felicita en su día. TAPIA da
las gracias, GUZMAN dice que acaba de recibir un cable y que..
( hoja cinco)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

..6..

dice: *Embajador de México, a TAPIA, recibe felicitaciones de cumpleaños, abrazos para todos, firma MANUEL LAVA Y BOLIVAR*.

TAPIA se entera y da las gracias, y dice que su esposa y su familia fueron a las piramides de Teotihuacan; cambia de tema y pregunta que le traía REND con el cable cifrado. GUZMAN dice que nada y que era otro cable grande y ya quedó todo arreglado, y que "ese hombre es mas bruto que el gobernador", cambia de tema y dice que hay que mandarle un regalo a esa muchacha.

TAPIA pregunta por el papelito que le dio de unos cubanos residentes norteamericanos y que hay que ver en Gobernación ese asunto pues son tres cubanos que le traje MARICH. GUZMAN no tiene ese papel pero lo va a buscar y a la voz pregunta si recuerda que se renovaron dos pasaportes de dos niños hijos de unos españoles que viven en Torreón. TAPIA que si que se lo dió a una vieja española fea. GUZMAN: que está bien y saludos.- TAPIA antes de colgar comenta " que el viejo me llamó para pedirme disculpas sobre que no me había enterado del cable cifrado que habían hecho entre "el viejo" y GUZMAN, y que me pusiera inmediatamente al habla contigo y que estaba molesto porque yo estaba pensando que me habían pasado por arriba, y que no lo tomara así y que el me daba plena confianza, etc." - risas.- GUZMAN comenta que así es mejor para que se de cuenta que no quiero nada " entre bastidores".- risas.- TAPIA comenta " que está loco ese viejo". GUZMAN rie y dice que hasta pronto.- 531-

531- Salida.- (Aeronaves)- GUZMAN pregunta por la hora de llegada del vuelo 411 procedente de Miami. HF que a las 16:00 hrs.- 539-

(..6.- 12- 5 may.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

28-77-83.

6 mayo 66.

L2-M2-T29-

0551-1046 hrs.-

..1.-

00- Entrada sin contestación.- 07-

07- Salida al 22-68-29.- 0851 hrs.- (Exclusivas Bennet)-
GUZMAN pregunta por HERNANDEZ para pedirle que no vaya a venir
hoy a la embajada sino hasta mañana y que se traiga las muestras.
Y lo de la vajilla. HERNANDEZ que estará a las diez o diez y
media.- 18-

18- Salida ocupada.- 23-

23- Salida al 21-36-70.- 0915 hrs.- HORTENSIA pregunta por su
amor MICAÑA y si van a verso hoy. Este dice que hasta el lunes
para que pienses lo que te dije. HORTEN. IA dice " estás pedo y
si no quieres venir entonces mañana si, y no to hagas payaso".
- bla.. bla... sin importancia.- 45-

45- Salida al 17-51-27.- 0916 hrs.- HORTENSIA pregunta por
OSCAR RODRIGUEZ de la Canada Dry, pero alli no trabaja nadie con
oso nombre.- 53-

33- Salida ocupada.- 59- equivocada.- y ocupado.- y sin con-
testación.-103-

( hoja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

103-
Salida al 13-74-92.- 0925 hrs.- HORTENSIA progunta por su
aner ZABORATS para saber si se pueden ver. Este dice que mientra
siga actuamio cono niña y siga creyendo e:: los Santos Reyes no
volverá a salir con ella y que ya es una mujer que debe de hacer
las cosas por si misma. HeNSIA se enoja y le dice hasta luego.

126-

Salida sin contestación.- 136-

136-
Salida al 33-01-80.- 0031 hrs.- ride a MP MARIA CENA
que anote en su libreta que vey a ir a la "nbajada AmericaDA.
luego a la Posinicera y despues de la Procuraduria. MARIA que
estif bien.- 13-

143-
Entrada, VIGNON saluda a MART y dies que tiene un trabaje
que terainar antes dot 120 25 :orque se qulere ir para el dia 23
"all". MARINA se alegra. MIGNON invito a MATINA У и TERD PEÑA a
conor hoy en nangi de platazes.. - Anbas castan.- 168-

166-
Jalida al 25-50-12.- 2011 hrs.- corpedo.- y bocina descol-
and.-100- (elein Cones)- MAI pregunta por el señor
VIDAL para avisarle que hace tres dias tiene el dinero de la
rents del cuarte. VIAL madará recogerlo con su recibo.- 204-

204-
Salida.-(Información)- MARINA por el nimero de Agua Electro-
p.ra.
CF que es el 33-13-00.-- 209-

209-
alida si 30-10-00.- 1017 ars.- equivocado.. con Flectro-
Cur.- Saophes dicen que us 16-20-30.- Y luego MARIMA hace pedido
de agua electropura. 1020 hrs.- 245-
(hoja dos)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

245-

Entrada.- 1021 hrs.- MF pregunta si hay alguna correspon-
dencia para JOSE IFRUZ. MARINA dice que no hay nada.- 258-

258-

Entrada.- 1033 hrs.-MF desea informes para visa, pues
habla de los Establecimientos Nosie y x tambien saber los
requisitos para poder legalizar una carta poder para pedir el
traspaso de maquinas en la Republica Dominicana. MARINA que
primero ir a Gobernación y a Relaciones Exteriores y ya loga-
lizados por esas dependencias puede pasar a la embajada bajo
conocimiento de algún notario y que cuesta la legalización
la cantidad de cinco dolares, MF que gracias.- 272-

272-

Entrada.- 1040 hrs.- MF pregunta por el Corl. JORGE. TERE
dice que no esta, despues GARCIA saluda a LOONTE GUZMAN y pide
le diga que lo llame al 11-90-43 con ANDRES GARCIA.- 283-

283-

Entrada.- 1046 hrs.- CRISTINA saluda a MARINA y pregunta
si ha llegado esa gente. Esta dice que no y que anoche llamó
y no contestaba el teléfono y que hay que esperar hoy a ver que
hay, CRISTINA dice que hoy va a la recepción de la embajada de
Etiopía y que vea si en gobernación ya le dieron el permiso
de residencia. MARINA pide le llame mas tarde entonces.- 310-

(..3.-12-6 mayo 66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

EXBAJADA DOMINICANA.- 28-77-85.

6 naye 66.

L2-12-130-

1058-1208 hrs..

..1.-

00-

Entrada.-1058 hrs.- MP de parte dol seitor GEORGE RATKINGSON del diario Los Angeles Times que solicito una visa para ir a Santo Domingo y que es de nacionalidad norteauericana y quo ya tuvo une vian do periodista y la quiere renovar. KARINA dice que espero un momento, Despues IIF GEORGE dice que el consiguió antes una visa que le dieron on San Juan de l'merto Rico para la Dominicana y que ahora quiero volver pera ol asunto de llevar la notas periodisticas de las elecciones de au pafs y se quiore evitar toner que ir a San Juan a renovar. HARTA que hay que hacer todos los trámites de nuevo aquí, ya que son otras reglas y es mejor que deje el mere de su tele- fono para Llamarle cuando llegus el Consul, GORGE dice que e Pandicado 35-89-69 y que es GEORGE NUTANSON y est radiaa on México para los asuntos do su pericuico on Centro America.- 56-

36-

Entrada.- 1104 hrs. LUCHITA GANCS con GUZMAS su agor y saber si se van hoy. Este dice que si y pregunta por el número do la agereis que le ofrecis darle. LUCHIT la tarde que so vean se lo dard porque no lo trad consigo, GUZMAN le llamará a las cuatro y media.- 68-

68-

-Bosina descolada.- 3

83-

Kalida. (Cubajada de Coren) - MARINA dice que hay una corros pondencia que llegó da Santo Domingo para ada embajada y no hay .. (hola uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

... con quien enviaria y de ser posible pasen a recogerla.
MARINA aclara que proviano dol Ministerio do Raiacionos de
Santo Domingo, i que está bien y que gracias. 93-

93-
Salida al 18-29-93.- 1115 hrs.- (Ceremonial)- MARINA
pregunta por FLORES TEJADA, lif dico que salió a la calle.
MARINA pide se lo diga que el seiler G desen tenor una
confereneta con di, con fines do tratar un asunto de su -
Gobierno y que se lo señale una cita. MF ףque est bien.-104-

104-
Solida sin contostación.- 110-

110
Entrada.- 1117 ws. Intereu que de Leon, CTO, Ilam al
Corl.RCOS JORGE MORNO, Duajmes HF ANDRES saluda a MARCOS y
pregunta si recibió su tolograma da folicitación por el santo
de MRCOG. Fate dice que si y que gracias. ACS que ha estado
haciendo gestiones ante la Forretera el Bajić para ol prestado
de unos 200 y que será una letra de caubio a sets tosos de pago
con interesos. HANCOS 10 Mara mas tarde para darle la reu
puenta. ANEMONS ti nen wat corida qur F. Y lo da al obispo
para ccaruciorse. MARCOS 10 llamard tarde corto a las siete.
ANDRES e a su despacho o sua el 3-17-02 y alli ospora su
Ilamade. MMCOs que está bien,-134-

134-
Salida al 14-02-76.- 1124 hrs. Tabika saluda a TAPIA Y
dice qist si va & souir a ia rebajada. PEK APLA pregunta que
necesita. YAPA que sobre unos documentos ywna visa que pide
el corresponsal del diario Los Angelus Tiuas o sea NATANSON qua
quiere ir a Dato Domingo y que la vez pasada se la dieron en
Puerto Rico, ΓΑΓΙΑ dice que entonces se vaya a Puerto Rico a
sacarla, despues dice que pasa al rato.- 149- (hoja dos)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

149-
Salida al 19-55-93.- 1125 hrs.- YADIR: por DrL OLMO, pero todavía no llega.- 151-

154-
Salida ocupada, y sin contestación.- 168-

168-
Entrada.- 1123 hrs.- M ADELINA ELIAS DE MORENO con su esposo el Coronel MARCOS JORGE MORENO para avisar que va al sulda y que despues pase porella. MACOS que está bien y que aolo sed rointegro on la Loteria.. 130.

130-
Salida al 35-56-08.- 1133 hrs.- (ofictalta Mayor) - HORTONSI pregunta por la señorita NONTERO, Dospura GUMAN saluda a la Licenciads MONTERO. Esta dice que sus des oficios pondientes do firza desde el alercoles no los tienen sino hasta hoy nas tarde y de los etres dos están pendientes de que se despache. GUZMAN que está bien y explica que hay tres andices dominicanos que vinderen a Sxico con visa por tres meses y sus pasaportes son oficiales con visa diplomitica y se vencen el dia 8 y que Relaciones explica que hay que llamarles o solicitar ol cambio por oficio. MOSCARO que usi en que destes to mando lon oficios para que so despachon lungo.- 201-

201-
Salida al 13-21-92.- 1139 hes.- GUZMAN pregunta per el Lic, ENRIQUEZ para saludarlo. Este dice que estuvo un poco enfuro y con triche trabajo, y que ya logró inforues "sobre esa persona y que el ditimo puesto que todavia tiene es en una compañia fraccionadora de terrenos y ma bien es al amparo de su hermano JUAN CORTORTILLO, quien es la cabeza del grupo, y que he ocupado otros puestos stoure bajo le celula de su hermano AAN y que "$1" (CUSTAQUIO CORTINA PORTILLO) es una buena persona..
(hoja tres)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

...complotamente honorable y digna de todo credito" y que el
ultimo dato como antes le dijo ests como Presidente de una
compañia de terrenos fraccionados, pero la persona que le dif
enu dato dijo que eso era hace seis meses y hasta la fecha
no se ha logrado comprobar, GUZMAN pregunta si logró investigar
de filiación politica o social es ana menos. ENRIQUE
sabe que es igual que todos sus hermanos o sea de un grupo
completamente catolico practicante y siempre ha estado en un
circulo de hombres catolicos formados hace tiempo por un grupo
de hombres que estuvieron a estudiaron con el padre jesuita
RAMON SILVA o RAMON MARTINEZ SILVA. GUZMAN toma nota y dice
que no lo agradece mucho porque sus datos non valiosos. ENRIQUEZ
que nada tiene que agradecer "doctor" si sus datos son en cierto
punto cortos, GUZMAN que no y que verán que dia so reunan con
las esposas a cenar juntos. SATURNIO que está bien y que anoche
estuvo platicando con el Dr. ROCILIC y dice que los conoce.
GUZMAN dice que el Dr. RECILAC es intimo amigo de mi padre y es
una bella persona. RODRIGUEZ dice que salió hoy fuera y no sabe
cuando podrá regresar a Santo Domingo hasta "que lo llamen".
-236-

236-
Entrada.- 1143 hrs.- CRISTINA con MARUCA para saber si
"halli el señor". MARIA que al que está platicando con don A.
COLON que va a esperar y al rato lo llamará porque lo quiere
"coger a como de lugar".- 246-

248-
Entrada.- 1145 hrs.- MP quiere preguntar si para ir a Haiti
y Antillas Holandesas se tiene que sacar visa con la Dominicana
MARIO dice que no es necesario porque no tienen que tocar
Dominicana para llegar a esos otros paises.-
NP platica que ..
(hoja cuatro)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

..5.-

.. ella tiene familieres en Santo Domingo trabajando en la Oficina Sanitaria Panamericana y en caso de poder ir a ese país podri gestionar su visa allá mismo. MARINA que lo ayuda en mucho pero de todos modos tiene que hacer las gestiones desde la embajada de aquí.- 292-

292- Entrada.- 1150 lirs.- CRISTINA CORTA y pregunta por MARCOS (JORGE MORNO). Este dice que espero un momento.

Despues CRISTINA dice que sabe que hace mal en llanerle pero para ella es suficiente estar esperando tanto y lo que le hizo el miercoles esta muy mal ya que ella desde el 21 de abril está tratando de hablarle por ultima vez sin tener que molestarlo más. MARCOS guarda silencio. CRISTINA que solo le quiere saber su opinión para un viaje a Santo Domingo que ella quiere hacer y que no habia salido antes porque su hija está enferma. MARCOS dice que aqui no se puede hablar para nada. CRISTINA que yan se que te molesta hablar conmigo pero será la ultima vez que lo hago pero yo quiero saber tú consejo para ir a Santo Domingo y lo demas esta por demas hallar y quedamos como amigos y total. Y que ya con los desaires que te haces ya es suficiente. MARCOS que no es momento para hablar y menos aquí y que el lunes nos vemos y no puede seguir hablando porque hay mucha gente.

CRISTINA que entonces nos vemos el lunes "enfrente coria antos- siempre". MARCOS: que está bien.- 328-

328- Salida equivocada, y sin contentación.- y siguen salidas equivocadas.- 427-

427- Salida al 19-55-90.- 1200 hrs.-(Hotel Emperador).- YADIRA por su amor UEL OLMO, pero no ha llegado y pide le diga que "su esposa lo llamó"-493- (hoja cinco)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

433-

...८..

Entrada.- 1208 hrs. HORTENSIA pide a MARINA informa a GUZMAN que está en el zocalo, pero que estuvo en Gobernación y que todavia no estaban los oficios, y que si quiere que regrese a Gobernación. MARINA despues de informar dice que se venga mejor para la embajada pero rápido.- 449-

449-

Salida sin cortestación.- y equivocada. 474-

474-

Entrada.- HF por el Coronel MORENO. GUZMAN dice que ya salió. HF que es el Ing. IUGIDET. 484-

484-

Salida.- equivocada.- 490-

(..6.-L2- 5 may.66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

ENBAJADA DOMINICANA.- 28-77-85.

6 mayo 66.

L2-N2-731-

1354-1402 hrs..

60- Entrada.- HF para cobrar la renta del local que ocupa la embajada. MEDINA dice que hay un cheque por un mes y es por la cantidad de $1,200.00. HF pasará a recogerlo.- 07-

07- Entrada.- HF de la Embajada de Noruega, para saber quien es el encargado de Negocios. MEDINA dice que es RENE FJALLO. HF que es para una invitación que le enviarán.- 13-

13- Salida al 03 por la hora.- 1241 hrs.- 16-

16- Salida sin contestación y ocupada.- y equivocado.-31- - al 03 por la hora.- 1313 hrs.- 34-

34- Entrada.- HF de la Embajada de Dinamarca quiere saber si todavía es Ministro de Relaciones en Dominican al Dr. CARLOS FEDERICO HEREZ Y HEREZ. GUZMAN dice que si. HF que es para enviar una correspondencia y también saber el nombre del Vice-Ministro. GUZMAN que es el Dr. MANUEL GOICO pons porque el anterior Lic. RAMON HENRIQUEZ LISTER es representante ahora en las NNUU. HF que también al Jefe del protocolo lo es todavía FRANCISCO JOSE MARIA RINCON. GUZMAN dice que si. HF que gracias.- 47-

47- -Salida.-(Ceremonial)- GUZMAN por FLORINDA TEJADA. HF que llame después de las cinco porque ya salió al aero puerto.- 58-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

১৭-

...2..

Entrada.- 18gkhar.- HF ANGEL por YAPIRA, MARINA dice que salió la suegra y esposa de ANK TAPIA. ANGEL que está bien. ( es el esposo de YADIRA y se llama ANGEL DM xxs y trabaja en ol servicio de turisto del Hotel Emperador)- 60-

60-

Entrada.- MF con MARDA para comentar que su hija ostá enferua y que hace rate estuvo hablando con MARCOS JORGE MORENO y que le dijo que tenia que hablar con ella el lunes.( 1 ca CRISTINA amante del Corl.came)- que a la noche van a la recepción de la Embajada de Etiopia.- 107-

107-

Entrada, Corl. MAURICIO FERND 2 Premuita por LCONTE para saber si puede firmar el ciro al portador, Este dice que si.

- 118-

118-

Salida. equivocada. 123- y sin-contessación.. y ocupada.

- 146-

146-

Entrada.-HF dice ser pasante de Redicina y quiere irse a la Dominicana en calidad de interno en algin hospital, MARINA que solo hay que cubrir los requisitos de visa y se le podrd aceptar. 13 dice que teruisa sus estudios a fín de año y tiene tiempo de ir tramitando sus asuntos, MARINA que está bien.-165-

165-

Salida equivocada. 172- y salida al 02 por la hora. 1350hs

- 175-

175-

Entrada.-1354 hrs.- 1 con TERESITA PENA para saber a dande vå tus tarde, usta dice que iba a ir con CRISTINA a la recepción de la mbajada de Stierla pore autos van een MARINA a casa do

(hoja dos)

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

..-3-

.. HIGNON en un carro. If que está bien. Th dice que vino el doctor CABRERA - dominicano- quien se va para la patria y anda vendiendo el auto en mil dolores y que vale como 30 mil, y que es un Ford. IF se interesa y pregunta a dendo hablar con CABRERA. TERE que al 19-56-52 y 19-56-53, y que sale mañana a tachuea y el Domingo se va a Miami para despues a Santo Domingo.- 216-

216- Salida.. HORTENSIA pregunta por ARCELSO RODRIGUEZ.-
equivocado.- 226-

226- Salida sin contestación.- 250-

240- Salida al 21-36-70.- 1402 l.cs.- HORTENSIA por el señor MAGAÑA Lara avisarle que "le habis aquel y que quiere verla con el niño". MAGAÑA que ento: ces lo dejan para el lunes. HORTENSLI le dice: "esida pedo y quiere verte hoy", MAGAÑA que primero arregia tus asuntos personales y despues nos vemoв y despues de cort

270- Salida equivocada.. y sin contestación. 268-

268- Entrada sin contestación.- 310-

(..3.- 12-6 mayo 66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

EMBAJADA DOMINICANA.- 25-77-55.

6 mayo 66.

L2-M2-T32-

1736-1900 hrs..

...

00- Salida al 19-55-90.- 1736 hrs.- (Hotel Esperador) - GUZMAN pregunta por don RENE FLILLE. MERCEDES FERNANDEZ DE FILLO dice que salió para la embajada Suiza y que despues iba a pasar a las oficinas. GUZMAN vino porque se lo dijo y va a tener que esperarlo. MERCEDES porque se va a entrevistar con el embajador suizo. GUZMAN lo va a esperar de todos modos y si no viene mas tarde entonces mañana vendrá.- 22-

22- Entrada.- Mr ROLAND PALLAS de la Agencia de Noticias Reuter de Londres, quiere saber si hay una reunión de productores de azucar en México y si la dominicana está representada. GUZMAN no sabe y pregunta cuando comienza esa reunión, ROLAND que tiene informes de Londres que debe de comenzar hoy y que participan Perú, Brasil, Dominicana, Colombia y México. GUZMAN dice que espero un momento, despues dice que si le quiere llamar mañana a las once porque yo soy un empleado de la embajada y me sé de eso. ROLAND que gracias.- 44-

44- Salida.- RENE pide el apartamento 201 con el señor TAULLA. - Mr dice que espero un momento. Despues RENE dice a TAULLA que tienen aquí una dificultad en un cable cifrado que estamos trabajando y resulta que el colla de la embajada no está en el escritorio de doña KARINA y que Guzman le dice que él se lo dió a RENE para un visado de cortesía en la mañana y de tanto que no (hoja uno)

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

..2.-

.. está el sello y necesitan mandar esos cables hoy mismo.
TAPIA tarda en llegar unos diez minutos. RENE que está bien.63-

63-

Salida al 18-52-86.- 1830 hrs.- ocupado y sin contestación..

- 87-

87-

Salida al 14-02-86.- 1335 hrs.- RENE por TAPIA. equivocado.

- 94-

94-

Salida al 14-02-76.- 1835 hrs.- RENE pregunta por FRANK
TAPIA. dice que espere un momento. Despues RENE dice a TAPIA
que no hay necesidad que se venga. TAPIA que el no sabe de ese
asunto de descifrar y que yo tenia la cable pero es en mensajes
de llegada, mas no para salidas y eso a lo pudo... risas. RENE
que entonces va a dejar a GUZMAN que haga todo y que ya encon-
traron el sello de la embajada que MARINA dejó en el escritorio
y ya se lo he dicho que yo no la quiero acusar de que las
cosas se le olvidan y todavia asegura de no hacer las cosas.
TAPIA que si y que asi se pasa el tiempo olvidandosele las cosas,
Y que hoy en la mañana decia que estaban perdidos unos cheques
que al final los encontraron. RENE que es una pobre mujer que
está perdiendo la memoria y se despiden.- 130-

120-

Entrada.- 1845 hrs.- MARINA pregunta a GUZMAN si se lo
quedó en su auto un broche de ella. GUZMAN lo recogió y lo
tiene guardado. 140-

140-

Entrada.- 1847 hrs.- TERESITA PEÑA con GUZMAN para saber
que se ofrece. GUZMAN que es por el sello que no aparecia..
pero ya lo encontraron y acaba de llegar otro cable cifrado y
"el viejo ya se fué a la recepción de INTER".- 158- ( hoja dos)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

155-
Salida al 18-29-99. 1650 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta por
el actor FLORES TEJADA del Coromonial do Reinolones, 17 dice
que ya no vino por la tarde a trabajar poro olla Wird quo 10
Iland si es que llega o hasta amana. 174-

174-
Entrada, 1900 hrs.- CHELITO GAIES con su amor GULAN
y saber a que horas se ven, GUCIAN que dentro do media hora
allf on su casa, CLITO la espera on la puerta de la cana.-181-

...

(..3.- 1.2-6 mmyo.66)-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

EMILA JADA DOMINICANA.-26-77-65.

7 mayo 66.

L2-12-T33

1046-1454 hrs.-

00- Entrada.- sin contestación.- 03-

03- Entrada.- XF CHELITO GAMES saluda a su amor GUZMAN y pregunta que hace, Cate dice que trabajando. CHELITO dien que an "va a quedar soco de tanto trabajar". GUZMAN que si "y si tú no no cuidas poor". CHELITO si lo quiere atender y se verán hoy. GUZMAN le llacard tas tarde a las doce a su ofinice.. 08-

08- Entrada.- CRISTINA con GURIAN y con TEREBITA PESA Pora comentar que su hija IRITA est un poco onferta y que oito a MARIKA para mañana en cass y comer juntas.. bla.. bla... atn importancia.- 33-

38- Salida al 12-04-93.- 1046 hrs.- ( Curteros Zona Uno)-

GUZMAN pregunta por Jilas para saber si ha llegado algun valija o correspondencia para la oubajada. Fate dice quo no y que le 11ame mas tarde.- 45-

45- Entrada, RF por CARITA CASTILLO de parte do SALVADOR - RENDON, GUZMAN dice que los sabados no trabaja .- 49-

30- Entrade. 1056 hrs.- SONIA por JORAR NOREDO O por TAPIA.

GUMAN dice que hasta el lunes cataran porque hoy ne vienen..

- 53- (hpja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

55-
Salida al 18-22-93.- 1100 hrs.- GUZMAN saluda a FLORES TEJADI
del Ceremonial de Relaciones y dice que le llama porque el
Encargado de Negocios RENE FIALLO acaba de recibir un cable de
nuestro gobierno y de que tiene que comunicarle ciertas cosas
.al Canciller CARRILLO FLORES y para ello solicita una audiencia.
FLORES dice que el Ministro salió de viaje a los Estados Unidos
o sea por Nueva York y Washington, pero en cuanto regreso se le
solicitará la entrevista o si es urgente se podrá gestionar
con el Primer Sub-Secretario, GUZMAN que como es una cosa directa
con el Canciller entonces van a esperar por las semana si es que
no tarda mucho en regresar, y que el lunes lo avisará. FLORES
que está bien.- 74-

74-
Salidas ocupadas.- 110-

110-
Salida al 12-04-93.- 1150 hrs.- GUZMAN pregunta por INCLAN
para saber si llegó siempre valija. Este dice que no. GUZMAN a
la vez pregunta los requisitos que se necesitan para enviar
valija de aquí de México a la Dominicana. INCLAN no sabe ya que
son cosas diferentes al servicio de correo y para ello es mejor
preguntar a Comunicaciones. GUZMAN que gracias.- 127-

127-
Salida ocupada.- 136-

136-
Salida al 19-09-04.- 1158 hrs.- (Oficina de Personal de
Comunicaciones)- RENE PIALLO desean saber a quien hay que dirigirse
para los trámites de envío de una valija por vía aérea para el
gobierno Dominicano. MF que debe de llamar al 18-06-60 ext.271
que es el Departamento de Transportes.- 159-

( hoja dos)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

159-

Salida sin contentación.-178-

..3..

178-

Salida al 21-70-51.- 1200 hrs.- (Jefatura de Correos)-
FIALLO pide informes sobre como y donde depositar una valija
diplomática para Dominicana. MF que en las oficinas centrales
de las calles de Tacuba y Ruiz de Alarcón.- 194-

194-

Salida sin contestación.- y ocupadas.- 220-

220-

Entrada.- 1210 hrs.- MF de la Administración Central de
Correos avisa a GUZMAN que los llegó una valija diplomática y
como es sabado tiene que pasar a recogerla mas temprano y que
es do parte de INCLAN y estarán hasta las dos de la tarde.
GUZMAN que gracias.- 227-

227-

Entrada.- 1211 hrs.- CICLITO GAANS con su amor GUZMAN para
comentar que llegó valija, y que GUZMAN va a ir a retirarla del
correo y le llamará despues para verse mas tarde.-235-

235-

MERCEDES DE FIALLO
Salida al 2k- 23-41-54.- 1232 hrs.- XXXXXXXX se inte-
resa por el departamento que se renta en las calles de Lerna
esquina con Tiber o sea atrás del Hotel Maria Isabel. MF con
acento de norteamericana le informa y que renta $4,500.00 al
mes.- Xxxxxxxx quiere uno mas barato para dos personas.- 268-

268-

Salida sin contestación.-275-

275-

alida. XXXXXXXX por un departamento que rentan y que
ella necesita por tres meses.- MF ofrece los que tiene en Rhin 29
(Apartamentos Carmen donde habita TERESITA PENA) y otros mas
en Petravan y Newton, Polanco.- 321-
(hoja tres)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

321-

Salida ocupada.- 327-

.....

327-

Entrada.- 1250 hrs.- por GUZMAN, MERCEDES DE FIALLO dice que salió a recoger una valija y regresa una tarde o bien hasta el lunes. F es CICLITO GAMES y dice que llama de Seguros Fregreso y que es sobre un cobro de un seguro (7).( Efectivamente CHELITO que es amor de GULAN trabaja en Seguro Progreso de la calle de Madero 69)- 344-

344-

Salida al 14-83-89.- 1254 hrs, MERCEDES OF FLLLLO pide informes sobre el apartamento do Herodoto 30. lif dice que lo puede asar a ver a la hora que guste.-371-

372-

Salida, MERCEDES por informes de un departamento poro ya esta rentado.- 379-

379-

Entrada. sin contestación fuera.- 353-

383-

Salida sin contestación.- 390-

390-

Salida al 13-70-44.- 1301 hrs.- (Cine Mundial)- GUZMAN pregunta por RANON CARVAJAL para saludarlo y ponerse de acuerdo en caso que llame la NINA para hacer planes y salir de paseo mañana. RANON está de acuerdo.- 411-

411-

Salida al 45-72-69.- x- 1302 hrs. B MERCEDES DE FIALLO pregunta por el departamente que rentan amueblado.-427-

427-

Salida al 11-25-10.- ROTORS por informes del departamento amueblado que rentan en la calle Venecia, Colonia Juarez.-
438-
(hoja cuatro)-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

458-

Entrada.- 1310. hrs.- CHULITO GAMES pregunta a GUZMAN si
se van a ver porque ella ya sale del trabajo y se va para su
casa. GUZMAN entonces le llamará mas tarde a su casa porque
tieno mucho trabajo y que sobre el dinero del cebrandor lo *Kazan*
resuolve ol lunes pero hoy de todos modos se han de ver.- 481-

481-

512-

Salida sin contestación.- 512-

Salida al 45-23-24.- 1331 hrs.- MERCEDES DE FIALLO se
interesa por los apartamentos de la calle de Lerma si que
los puede pasar a ver con el velador JOSE./- 525-

525-

Salida al 46-41-07.- 1933 hrs.- MERCEDES por datos del
departamento de rentan en la calle de Pachuca. MF lo corta.- 542-

542-

Salida al 20-99-05.- 1355 hrs.- MERCEDES pregunta por la
señora CIBRIAN para saber lo del departamento que se renta y
que a ella la recomienda la agencia (?). MF dice que la señora
no esta y que tarda en regresar.- 563-

563-

Salida al 20-99-05.- 1455 hrs.- MERCEDES DE FIALLO con la
señora CIBRIAN para saber sobre el departamento que renta y que
es por tres meses porque no tiene la seguridad de continuar
ya que pasando las elecciones de su país tal vez salgan del país
o tal vez nó. Y quedan de liarse el lunes para ponerse de
acuerdo en que si lo rentan o no por el tiempo antes mencionado.
-705-

705-

-Salida.-(Suits Fuperador)- ROKE FIALLO pide a AF lo mande
un taxi a la embajada.- 750-

(hoja cinco)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

750-

Salida. (Emperador)- MERCEDES DE PIALIC pregunta si mandaron el taxi, MF que si y que tarda cinco minutos on llegar.- 766-

766-

Entrada sin contestación.- 812-

...

(..6.-L2- 7 mayo 66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

LIBAJADA DOMINICA-28-77-85.

9 mayo 66.

Bak- 12-12-734-

0904-1212 hrs..

00- Entradas sin contestación.- 16-

16- Salida al 22-60-20.- 0904 hrs.. GECA: saluda a HORANTE y dioe que el sabado lo estuvo esporando y quiere verlo hoy. HERANDOZ lo espera por la tarde en su casa. GUOON que est bien porque necesito ese hoy. ( IRANE es do la distribuidora Bonot quien les vende vinos, cigarrillos, etc. de iupertacifu).

- 25-

25- Entrada.- 0910 hrs. 10 MARCOS JORGE NERO Bo reports. GUTMAN dice que espere un comento. Despues 100 saluda a MORENO.. y progunta si no lo recuerda que es su viejo amigo de Santo Domingo y que tu estabas do Comandante de la Guardia en Palacio. MORECO lo recuerda y pregunta ai es MINELLA. in dice que si y que llegd ayer a dar un passo y a saludar a los amigos y cono no conocia esto a eso vino, y vino con su esposa y están en el Hotel Oxford en la calle Mariscal 67 y que vino a corsequir las visas de Guatemala, MORCO va al rato a llegar a la saba jada. Despues otro saluda u FORENO y le dice vagedwule" - risas. Y que se vino manejando desde Guatemala pere ahors que esta on la ciudad de Axico no se atreve a meterse a las calles por el tráfico enorme. Hoese pide lo esperen un rato pues no tarda on liegar. I dice que en Santo Domingo le mandaren un libro do rene: PERREIRA que se titula Guerra o Patria" y lo dejo en ... (hoja uno)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

..2..

Guatemala, pero en la pagina 128 te mencionan y dice sobre una forma brillante de las actuaciónes de MORENO o sea que dices:
* el Corone! MARCO ANTONIO JORGE MORENO fud relevado de la -
  Victoria despues de haber derrotado a mas de cinco mil resos politicos y que eso le coste que lo encaran de allf, asi que quiero decir que tu nombre está para la historia ya porque figuras an un libro. MORENO se alogra de saber eso y dice que al rato se verán, HD vino con GALLARES con su esposa e hijos y despues irán a buscar a BRUNO para verse todos juntos.

77-
Entrada.- 0959 hrs.- IF de parte de HORTENSIA pregunta por MARTHA para avisarle que está enferma y que se tuvo que ir al Seguro y que llegará mas tarde. GUZMAN que está bien.- 85-

85-
Entrada.- 1001 hrs.- L.F en INGLES pregunta por RENT: PIALLO. MARINA en aismo INGLES informa que no está y que llega en una hora o que llamo al Hotel Emperador.- 110-

110-
Entrada.- 1012 hrs.- HF por JOSE FRANK TAILLA el Cónsul. MARINA dice que espere un momento. Despues MR ARNEDOS pregunta si le manda eso. TAPIA que si que lo espera, ARNEDOS se lo manda en un sobre y pregunta como esta la familia. TAPIA que bien todos y pide que la carta que le va a mandar se la haga llegar lo mas pronto posible porque es urgente.- ARNEDOS si debe de suspender por algo el viaje se lo avisará, porque va a habira con DAVIS para ver si ella tambien va y que le manda a la persona para que l, arreglo ai pasaporte y la visa. TAPIA que está bien.- 126-

126-
Entrada.- 1015 hrs.- MERCEDES DE FIALLO pregunta si les han llamado. Dona MARINA que a don RENE lo 11amaron de Estados

( hoja dos)

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

...3..

...Unidos que les dijo que estaba en una junta y que llamaran aus tarde, PERC DES que si llama lo diga que ya sale para el Congreso a buscarlo. MARINA que esta bien.- 134-

134-
Salida al 46-65-70.- 1019 hrs.- YADIRA dice a MARIA que por la tarde se ven para comer juntas.- 142-

142-
Entrada.- 1021 hrs.- IP por la dirección do la Cubajada. GUZMAN se la proporciona.- 145-

143-
Salida al 46-65-70.- 1024 hrs.- MARINA pregunta de parte de MARINA como annuncio el niño. IP dios que ya bien y que ella va a esperar a su hombre que llegue hoy.- 158-

158-
Salidas sin contestación.- 174-

174-
Entrada.- 1049 hrs.- CRISTINA con CARLITA y con MARIA para saludarse y preguntar como sigue la hija de HARINA o sea LILIANA, HARINA dice que ya mejor. CRISTINA esta esperando porque LIR OS JORGE. la cito a las dies y media en la puesta de inla010 de ittorro de Dura. go, y estard ilacamio para saber si llega a la oubajada. MARINA que esta bien.- 193-

193-
Entrada.- 1108 hrs.- IP por el agregado de Prensa. YADIRA dice que llame al 24-31-29 ( maximo -- as con la MIGNON)- 204-

204-
Entrada.- 1110 hrs.- MERCEDES DE FIALLO pregunta si llegd su esposo RENE. GUZMAN y despues ROMINA dice que la estan esperan do. Despues MER CEDES reclama a RENE que la hizo ir a buscarle, RENE le dice " mi vida perdoname, y no tuve que venir". MERCEDES (hoja tres)

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

... fue al banco a hacer el deposito. Indica que está bien y que
el está en espera de una llamada de Estados Unidos, pero no
dejaron dicho de que ciudad era, pero si es de Estados Unidos
lo primero que he pensado es en ANVIL, pero tiene que estar
esperando de nuevo la llamada. Informes que no ha de ser nada
grave de lo contrario te hubieran dejado recado.- 240-

240- Entrada.- 1119 hrs.- CRISTINA pregunta por MARINA para
saber si llegó a la embajada MARCOS JOAQUIN MORENO. Este dice
que vino por un rato pero va a salir de nuevo porque anda con
los agregados militares del Salvador y otros que lo vinieron a
buscar. CRISTINA creía que lo estaba huyendo y pregunta si
anda uniformado. MARINA dice que no.-CRISTINA que entonces si
regresa le diga que el miercoles tratará de hablar con el, por-
que yo no puede estarlo esperando mas hoy.- 260-

260- Entrada.- 1127 hrs.- CRISTINA ahora con TERESITA para
decirle que MARCOS la tuvo esperando casi una hora y que ahora
tendrá que esperar otro día para ver cuando se digna verla... bla..
- bla... Y quedan de verse mañana.- 346- bloqueado.-352-

357- Salidas sin contestación y ocupadas.- 373-

373- Salida.- Coronel FERNANDEZ reclama a la empresa Tele-Rex
que del televisor que compraron está en malas condiciones y
necesita que le vayan a ver a su domicilio de Herodoto 30-102
y que lo vendió JUAN VALDEZ.- M tomó el reporte.- 402-

402- Salida al 45-45-86.- 1140 hrs.- ocupado.- y sin contestación,
-418- equivocado.-427- FERNANDEZ con su hija y después con su
( hoja cuatro)
...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

... esposa JOSEFA NUÑEZ y pide que llame a la agencia en que
compraron la televisión para que de los datos de factura y démas.
Y que mañana va a tener que hacer mas cena porque invitó a unos
anigos militares y a HARCOS.- 454-

454- Salida al 37-03-16.- 1143 hrs.- HD por MANUEL, IF dice
que no está. In quo le diga que no le quieren pegar en la -
embajada porque la maquina no está aquí. IF dice que se espere
y que ahora van a reclamar.-496-

496- Entrada.- 1145 hrs.- CRISTI avisa a MARINA que ya va
de salida y tiene que estar a una misa y que después hacen
planes para mañanа.- 515-

515- Entrada.- 1147 hrs.- MF MERCEDES LERO pregunta por GUMAN.
MARINA dice que espera un momento. Despues MERCEDES preguita si
ya llegó la visa del Dr. (?). GUHAN que van a esperar que
se la manden de Relaciones. MF MERGEDS que son tres visas y
que una de ellas es de su marad. Despues MD TERPSITA dice que
Ilame despues para mientras llegan esas visas.- 354-

554- Entrada.- 1155 hrs.- MIGNON saluda a MARINA y dice que
acaba de recibir una carta del ax señor ese de Santo Domingo
preguntandole por su visa. MiRINA va a ver eso y pregunta si
se va siempre el 23 para que aproveche la toma de posesión.
MIGNON se quiere ir antes y quien sabe si espete para la fecha
de la toma do posesión. Despurs MIGNON informa a GUZHA que
acaba de recibir una carta de FEDERICO que quiere saber sobre
sus visas. GUZMAN que ya salió el chofer por ellas a Gobernación.
MIGNON se quiere ir para el dia 18 y quiero llevarse la visa
para FEDERICO. GUZIMAN le arregla el asunto el miercoles.- 597-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

597- "ntrada sin contestación.- Sur y salida sin contesta-
ción. y acurado.. 635

633- Salida.- (Ceremonial)- TERESA requista el número de tel6-
fono donde se celebrd la conferencia de desnuclearización.
HF dice que es el 26-25-60.-659-

659- -Bocina descolgada. 667-

667- Salida al 26-25-60.- 1205 hrs.- (CCIREDAL)- TRA pide
comunicarse con alguna persona del archivo, pues 2 PIALLO
desea solicitar unos documentos sobre las ultions declaraciones
del corRTAL, HP dice que espore un momento. Despues R.dico
que es el delegado de la Dominicana ante la COPREDAL y necesita
con urgencia de las dos ultimas sesiones quo no fueron repartidas
por falta de tiomjo o sea con el acta final que sunan tresy
sus uosiones conjuntas que se sometió a la resa en el momento de
oerrer y que fueron los paises actuantes Argentina, Bolivia,
Brasil, Ferd, Panama, Dominicana y Venezuela. toiva y ofrece
cundar esos documentos a nas tardar sana. E que en todo caso
si a las dos no le 11gan puede pasar por eilos porque tiene que
hacer su comunicación oficial ante sumbierno.-738-

735- Salida al 093xax1212xkxs.- CARITA pide comunicare
a la oficina de Turėsmo dol Hotel Emperador, ero no hay nadie.
- 757-

757- Salida al 46-09-73.- 1212 hrs. saluda a EARTIN y
pregunta que hay de nuevo. Este dice que nada que on el trabajo
fecundo y creador. GUZMA pregunta si ya sabe que llega un nuevo
( hoja seis)
...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

..7.-

... Jefe de Misión. MARTIN no lo sabia y pregunta si entonces ya renunció a su cargo MARCIO VELOZ. GUZMAN que no que este nuevo que viene llega como Encurgudo de Negocios, y cambia de tesa y dice que está en estos momentos escribiendo una carta para ROBERTO ZUNIGA y compañia que es la agencia aduanal y que en su nombre va JOSE FRANCISCO TAPIA para hacer esas Gestiones de la franquicia diplomatica de libro importación del automóvil en forma temporal según acuerdo de la oficina de Registro Federal de Automoviles. MARTIN está de acuerdo y el mismo puede darle contestación a esa solicitud.

GUZMAN que es conveniente hacer el endoso de la factura y demás documentación..... - SE TERMINA EL ROLLO.- 835-

...

(..7.-12-9 mayo 66)

50-6-32/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# DISPATCH

TO: DCWHD/C

INFO: Chief, MH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: TYPIC/AMROD/LIFEAT

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET/KAPOK

PROCESSING ACTION:

XX: MARKED FOR INDEXING

Action Required: Pass to Thomas G. URQUHART

Forwarded herewith is verbatim conversation between Judith FERETTO and Adelina ZENDEJAS on 20 November 1965. (Source: LIFEAT)

Attachments: As stated - Herewith

Distribution:

2 - DCWHD/C w/att (h/w)

1 - C/WHD w/o/att

3 - Files

> [Figure: Signature of Willard C. Curtis]

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL: HMMA 27885

DATE: 15 December 1965

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET/KAPOK

MCS FILE NUMBER: 201 - 020481


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

99 FER No. 13

JUDY: Aujer, ya te arreglaron el telétor:o?

AZ: Ya

JUDY: Te he llamado.

AZ: Sí, lo tuve muy mal, se rogtren do c.bles, porque los acomo-
dadores de los teltenos vinieron y lo lantiren y yo les dije
que todavía no estaba puesto y dijeron no iaperta, ahora voy a
tener que pagar la nueva intilación.

JUDY: Y eso no va por caerts de ellos?

AZ: No. Y como lo hacen clo 1.ces si no te ledis sin telefonu.

JUDY: An así nay cosas que no puede ano ni pelearls..
Cómo llegó tid, muri. eli ntrer luir siter oso.

AZ: Pues llegó muy cansada con la altura luego rues le dió gripa
y luego pues la irrealón, el a une le produce apresión un
viaje así, imaginice; ar: ella que a su edad va a consumir el
sueño de su vida y a ver de bulto todo lo que se imaginaba

JUDY: Pues fijate que el otro af te utse decir, pero coso estabas
tan ocupid con..te acuera? allt en el intitute que habia
recibido carta de Carlos y nabla de tipor supuesto y as pone
ideas..te voy a leer dance sce: Recibi tumb.en carta de
ADELIKA donde se dice cos-18 muy bonitas tuyis. bueno as ecan-
ta que hayas conecide a (ne patience nombre) as dices quando
viene...(Jucita berain, de leer y dice:, el auciens se fue
sin avistrae descricitamente, yo querit aindarient botella
de Tequila y se fue; (pero ett interde dende 2 días antes
de que 1 aa. Hoza, AZ bla)..JUDY: El zuchteno?

AZ: No, Carlos. JUDY: An si el hibli aqui de eso, que le trae-
rá ótimon resultados.

Llegando a com to intornaren y estará hasta hoy en el hospi-
Aal.

AZ: Depende mache de las en.crieres ne pregunta (Je rien) (con-
tinúa leyendo it certa)..."..rdsate mucho en escribime, be
espero in proxima vez en criete, unarazo para ti, un abrazo
para Aaelini, dilo, ar de il buen. Voluntid ne haen-
contrico a su atdra."

No is ruas encontrar porous se uso muy zalo en frieste; exacta-
mente los alia que 1 4 estaba en ceza él ya estaba en ca-
mino a cerrert, porque le escribida Carlitchy is dijo lo
mismo y le dijo que se bacara el saijito Luchacho si no me
encuenta en El Dia no se to dice, por cierto que le pregunté
por su cami y me dije: "baene, vive en Cuautla ais tranquila,
tú sabes."

JUDY: cata carta es del 30 y el muchache salid el 30 y me dice: pasa-
de mañana ingreso il nospital. Le voy a cent star esta seлана-

AZ: Le voy a escribir yo también, et quiser. que tous les afas le
escribieran.

(cont..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

(cont...

JUDY:
De pasada le mandaré in traguito de Tequila como recuerde de este hermoso país.

AZ:
Tú sabes que no puede tomar nada, por eso le encerraron

J.DY:
No, lo encerraron por is de su pierna.

AZ:
Poro por eso, no quede coar nada, Cirlites ne dite eso, que no se había querido intermar y lo había estado alarga y alarga porque iba a tener una dieta tremenda entre ella ni goi de alcohol ni gota de vine, dice: "y tu ya sabes coc es al papa".

JUDY:
Qué otra cosa te iba a decir...ira, de le de Carles Pellicer que hablamos para dise can a la carrera...

A3:
(interrumpe) yo habla con di

JUDY:
Sí él me dijo. re enteraste vier de sede domu fué (AZ la interrumpe y dice: Sí la lef.) Judy continus Ah leiste la carta..

az:
Después me dijo, no hay nada que inscer, yo le amble al otro dia. me dijo: mira vino el secretario del señor con su montón de ex-ousas y ke hizo un sentin de nalages, we estuvo ais de sedia hora conmigo y ante cue me ha destrando completamente.

JUDY:
Sí, pero sí se ruede rublicar la carta.

AZ:
Pero en dónde, en El Jia no la rublican.

TUD.:
So la ruclican? Yo la wanie a todos los lugares que pude, me antiendes? fuera.

AZ:
Ne, ni de chiste, yo le atje: mica, yo podría hacer un comentario y me contestón: lo entiende, idenis creo que no se puede hacer, así me dijo ese día.

JUDY:
Yo estuve con él, en la casa.

AZ:
(interrumpe) me dijo que había hablado a "Politica" a ver si acaso rere a cualquier revista o periódico que la publique, le quitan el papel, así tranquilamente, yo compre "Sicapre" pensando que ya saliera alge y ni una palabra, ni sucesos fijate tű.

JUDY:
Ah, antes de que se me olvide, que hay en le de RADRAZO Angelina

AZ:
Bueno mira él ya ne aguanté, porque les intereses creades en el PRison superiores a la buena intención de él.

JUDY:
Espérate un segundite.,,, Ya perdona.

AZ:
Bueno, entonces, él rues er verdad trataba de hacer un partide y.. de purificarle vares.. y los intereses creades más la propaganda en contra de él, ragada per eses intereses no le permitió realizar la que él quería.

JUDY:
Verdad que es un nombre auy honrado?

AZ:
El es nonrade, muy muy honrade, us. roce desbocado como buen Labasqueño, un roce arbitrario, porque él en su vida ha ido así a brinces y ha supersie is cosas, pero pues las mañan de todo este y adeus intereses personales terribles, en Chihuahua, en Sinaloa, en donde el luniismo de los nuevos ricos de les nue-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

(cont.)

- 3 -

vos Forfiristas, pues no se deja ganar para nada y luego cuande ne hay en realidad un movimiento ropular desde la base, organizado dende no hay una militancia verdadera ningún partido e incluyo al (JUDY la interrupe diciendo "claro, citro" y no se escucha el nombre el partido) qué puedes tu hacer, si yo a veces piense que chao López Mateos no aventó todo al diablo se fue a la Derecua completente.

JUDY: M sabes que esti auy enteras.

AZ: López Latoog?

JUDY: Sí, porque yo wangu de cliente a la señora Alvares Ant:quita, que son muy amigos, bueno y an ift de estos se catuve de las quejan de ciao esti de mal el docter, entre otras cosas, diceu esta bueno, una cosa trewenda, que no quiero hacer case suese cuti catande, buero y que va a ir con el lic. Lopez Mateos, van a Chiud no? entonces yo inas le dije: pues si nadie tiene uiuenolia sobre él porque usted no le habla con amiga dei lito. Lopez Katoos que le hable a él, porque tiene una alapetes y no hace mangán caso, cuti malisimo, tiene un dicera, toan trigos, en fin astan-doze no? pare entonces de conteste ella, pero al Lopez Matoos enta leul o peer, porque un dis de estos cual es las avere do un delor de aubeza, casi casi de les zuere, se dices rere si asted sabe lo que os 1s cosa de la política y del poder y ese, dices 4 estaba feliz cuperando el nombramiento este, porque no ruedonestir din 8018 00935.. me lo dijo ayer.

AZ: Yo ne 1ino que algo tenia purus..

JUDY: Interruare.. me lo alto con cous seria, que en les quido sorir..

AZI Yo tengo un carta de 6., contestando ei talegria se af de su Barto y ..(JUDY internare y te tha ne eapere un coaento)..

AZ cchtindi me ruso un arta para desis le he tenide lune cons, sobre todo con auts de la olimpiada y he estade llamando y ertonces se pareció tan extrio que inclusive in secretaria de Humberto apareall coto enter y el ayudante que rer Alta. Vez tocó er el elefono se dipot A. actra, si es usted, is ver telfront de San Jeróniec pero no di usted que yo de que li ceriora cats enferma de entier.de usted?... Y yo rense ato i na dear, quisa alli se la ha arredo 14 gentetantc Adolfo que na pre.crido usarse er su casa y nicerse Lacey Huacerto ya e Malit, tramolado parte de su oficina est trabando alf. Luego te amolo iia sri. Gregory me dijo: Hire, el lic. Homero esti muy acurado pormue el sexor tiene muchas cosas, pero yo no le pregunte troue y se como sticla, pere af ac as a roue dije stars enfermo, porque esc de que se encierre en sa cua es muy extrahe, por esu 112808 saber. Yo quise aablar con Ava le hable a Amelia su her ue as ai ecnaucte porque munne ya no es Presidenta todavía mene una ola de gente aill y me dijo: vas a nicer una cosa, esta a que rise el 15 de noviembre y que terane toda la preparten el viaje de Alsolfe (corr. Adolfo) y ya nice es una cita para ver aquí uni. Anori que no sabis: janaria a hobren 230 1.120 pensar qué cosa seri, porque los aos van ane yor un


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

(cont.. lico y otro por otro cuando tienen trabajo, pero ai ya va va a
acompañarlo es que el cati enterco.

JUDY: No pues yo age 84, que estuvo seriamente aal.

AZI: liene diabetes emocional, se le sube la azucir por noras y ve
le baja por horas. Yo lo sabia visto bastante bien y de repente
Be ha desaparecido, yo creta cue estaba trabajardo en is inter-
vencion, en esto, en lo de Chile, pore aira las gentes que us
jonen grives graves durar auche.

ASI: 30 aurid Ana Bayou, tenis anais aemolitica. Del pincreas, no
hay nada que hacer, adeula is die brengenesenia y se fub volindo.
aurid el artes 9, tu liegiste un dia antes del acto verdad?
bueno, entonces yo es la que ibi a hablar, yo ter.14 33 as calen-
tura, ese día de viste auy aal.

JUDYI: No niblios per taittone el dia que tu estabas preparande el
dincurso. entonces fué cuando queria yo solar contigo de todas
estas cosas, exceto de lo del mic. Lopez katees.

AZ: Era es el dia, habia suerto an ifi antes. Habis tenido tanto ifo
y tanta cosa, a bit eaberrinelinido porque an astian noahr.do
y no puede dar confere..cias, no tengo testo para preparar y a af
me da wucho cor.je i acer for certas y eie en el due de in
Unión Joviética, entonces lo nabii a.crito pero lo tenia que resu-
air porque eran suen.3 513 ; o tef. als del tramo preciso
par. terainar, revisar corregir y luego ru's otras vrons yo puedo
aiblar, pero ahora que tong et ritate en el ordo, ta no sabes
qué desesperación por us as porje tervisetates, luego tenta calen-
tura, totil al entrar at 1000 e dijeron aridan ayob.

JUDY: Yo hace mucho nu is vela, porque yo donde soll encontrare com
ella era alid, ja tu .bos, con eats als que vive en la Av.
Verteraz. ca nocat oond alif con 10sotros, pues todavia outaba
.ere aquí.

AZI: Bue:.0 rues sila fue la riera que ao dijo que era in clue auy
diffeil en que en om atuncien se podría hacer algo, pero que
06.40 100s nosotros a dir cOBA..

JUDY: An bueno, de etc te quería nolar tabien, de lo que se conté
Carlos Pellicer, ti ic nebes saber bien, de la petión de un grure
de acabres de to a destiende de 44.co, de personalidades en to-
dos los campos, de la gente auy monrda, otc. pusieran en ino
de Carlos l'eslicer ant pticien al "D.ros" ne para que le libere
ni nada de ese no? Bino rara que de dep. de ella y las razones,
es una cosa may raspetuosa, se algo daries perfectaente humans.
Antonces Carios debió aber ide en represent.ción del crupo a de-
positar en atmos de...

AZI: No le van a contestar ni๘.

JUDY: No, no no, ir personalmente a la isla, we entiendes?

AZI: Pues no le van a hacer caso.

JUDY: Y resulta qus entonces et se que, com sucha razón porque aquí
estaba culos cudo eso, y estaba furiosa porsue hagin costs asi.
Antonces se tue aquí, donde una es su asiga o algo, que es el


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

(cont..

- 5 -

AZ:

JULY

AZ:

JDY

AZ:

JUDY:

AZ1

cabajador, porque son muy amigos, y le dije y le ruid el visade
y la negaron el viendo. Francamente Adelina, eso da vergüenza.

Pues no me extraña.

Y as dijo, están haciendo un Gobierno descritico o qué.

Bueno, eso no te entienden.

, to Adelina ne, ya da lineas no se pueden tener a estas
alturas.

L.eco, ruuairt, ese día del entierro, ye hable con una gente
08 3114, que fue perius cuti mujer ayudo -como en toda la repre-
616 680, fue al entierre, entonces je fui en la astana a las
8:30 y estuve alif ta las 10:30 en que se fufa ai tra-
tale ... (Julia interrumpe y le pide sus espere un momento)
AZ continúas y le dijos yo no voy a ir al cereito pero volveré
ai salir del trabajo, y efectivamente en la reche con todo y la
calentura as fue ler andata muy mal, la tarde estaba horrible.
Love hablando con esa mente que dil tabil de este


31, el asunto no en que sea o no

(interrumpe) y grita que no esta quemando puso se le derrame
ol :4.

Le voy a decir que portat ca una acer sus drive, porque esto
dese nicer creído una situación para los cc.riderca terrible,
desde que el papa fué a veria, que no lo sej.ron hablar als que
10 uto

JO

(interrumpe) bueno sir, nadie esta "lasendo que la liberen,
co ans.coon de un respetuoso de los valores suy grandes de B.6-
Lice que respetan ese Gobierno y que yo creo que al a gentes
que son como son de les ha ando viua...

AZ:

JUDY:

Ya ne smica da visa u nadie.

mere, pero and hay gente que ha ido y .a. vuetto y lue allf
y es squareus, para esas af nay viados y que no has visido
para un individue que al defendido tod el tiempo ante gobierno
que to respeta cu cea date, que de dirige en nombre e que
va en representación de in gente als llapis de México, que no
la esta distende al DR. CAIO pongas y le regias que higa
esto e lo otro, ae entiendes? porque no le dan un visado que va-
ya reruelle al teneg irros, ne se
las releo, geciry se fueyya, 639 63 16 us hicen Adelina
AZ:

JUDI

10 Licen en tous les rales del aande an excepción, en-
tonces ento af da una vergüenza y le que ayudas aqui es a aumentar
a que este gruie de gentes tenga que esperar con justa razon a
hablar mil de este gobierno.

Buena yo creo que Carlos ya ne sera als Presidente dei institute
al está inviado deads para residir al juride de algo, que hay
allí, un cencurso, en la Casa de las Américas, entonces lo que


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

cont..)

- 6 -

AZ: quería yo, Adelina, es que tu le escribieras a tu papá.

Yo no puede escribir, porque yo tengo que estudiar la carta. Ciert, yo escribo con un gran suidado, aira, le operiron, tu como es su estado? yo no, al fin supe de que le ashian operado, porque and asist als que me ca mandice pedir medicinis que me mandé los des alte tires de mi papi, fue la que me lo dije, entences yo meti una carta para la mija, le pregunte de los riñes, de mi pard y le dico que estoy muy angustrada perque no af de que lo habran oper.ae, que de there muy intr.ruita la eremeión se ai papi, le platico cosis totalmente fusiliares, 5orteresa esta persona se contesto diciedos au paid to ope- raren de keserreides y ya ati iarjor, cosa que Le did gusto porque yo inaodisente 1 munud el errold" que es lo que yo take y quo we cacapo de la tercera opórición. No ne recib.ue auritesta- ción, no só nada, pero yo for intuición cosence a no escribir ais de os poi:10.5, eso lo arved or sites rere lo de yo lieve 4.11, a la bajala, le digo carta y el as dices no Angelinino Saltaba als, y le rerites bala, yo ro de voy contents at usted no it ise.

JUDY: Y porqué tú no hables con 41

AZ: Ne, porque entonces va a resaltar lo siguient i que no vuelve a entir a la abajada, porme jo je se uns gente que mize eac y ro la degan orır.

JUDY: Santerces yo no quiere ir ail, i que haya etra revolución, con tous nunrusz te to die, ford 960 no es icque une quiere, asi coco te oyeu se le suelto al triato queencuentre.

AZ: voy a decir una casa, las otras revoluciones eatin comaulid

JUDY: No y no, ne se trata de catar sejinde entrar al annalo ni zuche acces, ni as iss cutt irritando. O repetan la 1: 400- cratica o que o Bagan ravo.uciones. Jel

AZ: Pues no se puede decir aucams panas por colifono, (uc 06.) Cac da verguenza, Matias eva anul nuestro papi ulo antea, sl di husera estade 4. Lido, al hustera ico a platear eata con como Ja Vergdanza.

AZ: Pues si, ne i veniale, usu nerain vieron en Julio, los doa df.a se est.viaron, en sue c. auy vejente aeias les dijo que no bia, entor:èes 10:14 persona, sura rerior: 4 a fe .arece oss erfarte, ne de, Lune

JUDY:

AZ: Si, congai entuvo muy enteras, to deron ir a la ciul de ie nanerante.do a in coor, it cost toisen tilaa, ro estiti con cu sujer y con .. ..10 . ..:: se second le vel a cerrar.

JUDY: Pues esa era lo que uerí: yo aablir contico, porque realzente


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

cont..)

-7-

AZI: pues... ah., y ya la retacharon a ....
absolutamente. Ya la reticaron.

JUDY: Lira, un afio de cuica el ex-marido de .... antiba yo con unos
aelijos en la Comercial Mexicana y anata c. .... alli ccao senfabulo
beche un viejite, ya no tiene ni pelo, pero que barbaridad.

AZI: Yo lo via el nice afios y te pregunte por el porque sicmpre
le pregunte y do sijos elli... Yo 10 dije que la habia visto on
enere, que iba con los ninos, afi ya alli, asi v.sto en
... entonces me ajos of vinc 19.6.0 erone, pero me
lo dije auf con una cosa de amargar. terr... y entonces le dije
y se va a hundir definitivirente? no, me dije, regresa en trio
afios y creo que no volvert, enturcea despues alguien as algo que
seguro no le volverian a dir le vida.

JUDY: Pura que barbaridad, uno tenga la gente asi que hablar, con la
razon on is sino.

AZI: quien este; yo afirmo no definito Juiores, yo no se ad' ... amor'.

JUDYY No, airs por grave que sea, nadie se esti atiendo a ver li gra-
vedad a no gravedad.

AZI: que il canose lo llevaron a Chococolovius, custodiado a carrearlo
esto etd, 18 11e8-501... a Paris a crearle y a... investigacion aa
...ods parte

JUDY: Eue yo no is discuto, ni discuto culpabilidad o no, Justicia e no
nadie se esti atiendo asi que, en una cerazamento ronretue-a
la retic...

AZ: Bueno, te voy a decir a ud erido dalin 110 casa de extrañas, yo
junto astics .. asi estin las cosas de entreoterolo, yo
no pueden tr...r, la gente o in ... tierra

JUDY: Yo estoy horrorizada per 10 de ... y in c.bin 40 operar de
cáncer er. Pri... to... talaharan para alli.

AZ:: 1.4, no con eso.

J DYs No Adelina, al ...

AZ:: Buone rues ardient al ... usted instir.

JULY Luo no se curi con Madeinta Adelina sino en ir talento.
Lou ringes ... ain ya alli y la experiencia es
la experiencia. ..........de de una ca is agjore, caracta-
listas de alla, que cada mes, ... imaginato.

AZ:: Fues, yo ando ...ydesare leve la cia, en ese he alde
suy chingi sempre, canac el portero no dice: voy a visarie
al eatajador, is digo: aqui esti la calle dice que es de parte
afu y que rusio revisar to .... Ano c... se abre la puerta
y visistries, entre a coloco lo extiendo, y
le digo ahora ud ed lo casquets como quieras. A al no se han
vuelte a ...jo al que tienen dienas auy cerradas
a al no se aan invitado a nada, a nada.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

(cont..)

JUDY: Sí, ya se, aunque para uno es mejor.

AZ:
A nada, siempre yo invito a los gremios culturales, a los demas. Antes siempre itban, ahora no van. Creo que esta actitud les va a hacer perder el Instituto Mexicano-Cubano.

JUDY: Como no van a querer, pero no se digo la calidad de cantos. Precidencia le diria a Carlos cuando regrese de Abaco que te diga la linea, esto es menos de gente, creo que seran 40 o algo asi.

AZ:
Y ya te dije, de tu pap4, directamente bueno ni su hija, ni la mama, nadie de ellos le escribio, yo se a traves de esta persona y te dije, quiero que consideres todo esto que si inte- gene son parte de conspiralles, como nosotros podemos pagar. Inclusive yo te dije de cuanto puede salir de alla y 4 botellitas de ron, que son los que pueden salir de alla y ojala se llegaran para navidad, salen en 90, poco, acaicanos tanto de que se pueden enviar porque yo no estoy ahora en condicio- les de enviar 5 o 6 meses de rogarlos como antes lo hacia con tanto sacrificios por que JUDI, me la he metido a una deuda de $4 esa de 20 311 pesos, que yo tengo que salir en el ano que entra y yo asamble, yo voy a tener una candy corosa, muy de gusto para trabajar, claro que ahora tomas gasolina y calor, al carro lo vendo y se acabo, yo no puedo ahora estar con este odio lo irenta nice poco y se ve un sentido horrible que a los tres cafes le dije al chofer, sire todos el volante, yo no puedo.

JUDY: Bueno, visitala a ver en casa de todos esos de tela anoria Adelina.

AZ: Si ye to tengo de cumple.

JUDY: Entonces que hablen de verdad y vemos, tu se avisas porque yo salgo en vacaciones.

AZ: Cuales vacaciones? Pongo vacaciones solo en la escuela, pero nada mas, lo que puedo hacer es repartirla. Esto es una tarde por, que otra semana, porque de otra semana no nos atre- vemos a ver y a si hay tanto polvo que uno se atreve a invitarte a comer.

JUDY: Ya tengo aqui a una muchacha, y por cierto ya te dejo porque la tengo que estar atendiendo, es nueva, muy buena no esta can- sado, voy a descansar un poco porque ya no aguantaba, anos y medio de estar caso una de cirga.

AZ: Yo prefiero regalar para que me trabajen, idese a que horas son. Me pongo a hacer las cosas. Salgo a las 8 de la manana regreso a las 3, caso y con todo del ruido son las 2 de la semana y yo no me he dormido, amanece diciendo.

JUDY: Bueno, se le da un abrazo a su mami, digale que pregunté por ella.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

- 9 -

cent..)

AZI: Sf ya sabe que eres tú, nos vemos adiós.

JUDY: Adiós.

HMMA-27555


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

MESSAGE FORS
TOTAL COPES: 26

DE:
XX-XXXXXXXXXXXX

ORG:
DAVID XXXX/hdp
UNIT:
WE/4/X
EXT:
5559
INDEX
31
SECRET
NO INDEX
DATE: 23 September 1965 FILE IN'CS FILE ND 201-776046

1
5
2
6
3
7
4
8

TO:
ROVE MEXICO CITY
24 SEP 65

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:
UE 2
INFO: VR, FILE & RID COPY
DIO GEN

TO:
RYZE
INFO
MEXI
CITE D.R:
45331

PER ODM-24382 PARA 7, M.3 ADVISE WICKER YOU CONCUR DISCONTENUTNO L.
OOVEFAJE CARLO COCCIOLI (201-776046) MUTILE ONTENTIO MATCHLIST HIS TRAVEL OUTS...
MEXICO.

END OF MESSAGE

RELEASING OFFICZA
UH/1: Mr. Fisher (telecoont)
COORDINATING OPPILAS

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

# DISPATCH

To: Chief, MI Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Enrique SEO Caley

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

XXX NO INDEXING REQUIRED

1.  Attached for Headquarters' information and retention are copies of the LiFEAT coverage on Subject, reel #269 through reel #272 for the period 2 through 14 July 1965 and reel #l through reel $16 for the period 31 July through 16 August 1965.

2.  This coverage was temporarily discontinued from 15 through 30 July because of technical difficultios with the instrument in the Semo home..

for
Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
As stated in paragraph 1

Distribution:
3 - Chier, WHD, w/att

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: INA-26,933

DATE: 19 August 1965

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-745927


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, EED

INFO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: DM/LT/LIFE/T/Operational Transmittal of LIFEAT Tapes and Transcripts

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION:

*   MARKED FOR INDEXING
*   NO INDEXING REQUIRED
*   ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING
*   MIKROFILM

1.  Forwarded herewith for translation of the Yugoslav portions are the following LIFEAT tapes: 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 & 14. Also forwarded are the following Spanish transcripts: 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 & 14.

2.  Because of the DMSAUCE/1 flap, the Spanish transcripts of the LIFEAT tapes will continue thru the end of this week (10 April), after that there will be no transcribing done in the field.

Attachment:

1.  As Stated (HEREWITH)

Distribution:

*   2-EED w/att h/w
*   WHD w/o/att
*   2- Files

for

Willard C. CURTIS

![signature]

![signature]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-25814

DATE: 8 April 1965

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FILE NUMBER: 50-8-2/9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

# CONFIDENTIAL

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY Department of State

DATE OF DISTRIO. February 1963

CHIEF COUNTRY Yugoslavie/Mexico

DISSEM. NUMBER C3-3/538,352

FIELD NUMBER HANA-PLEASE RETURN EVALUATION

SUBJECT Yugoslav. Commercial Activities in Mexico

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within days of receipt of request. BY WAY OF IDR/CS - ROOM 63 need for completion within this tire is priority standard. Indicate choices by "x." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under Evaluator's Comments. Normally, put one & in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

|     |             |                                      |
| --- | ----------- | ------------------------------------ |
| X   | 1. MAJOR    | IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO OUR NEEDS. |
|     | 2. MODERATE |                                      |
|     | 3. LITTLE   |                                      |
|     | 4. NO       |                                      |

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

B CONTRIBUTES TO OUR ANOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECTI

1. SIGNIFICANTLY٠

2. SUBSTANTIALLY.

X 2. MODERATELY.

3. NELIGIBLY.

C ACCURACY,

X 1. SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE.

2. CREDIBLE.

3. Doubtful.

4. Paleo.

5. CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE D.

D RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION.

X 1. USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION.

2. USEFUL FOR NEO INFORMATION..

3. Sufficiently known.

4. AT PRESENT WE LACA UTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS.

5. Conflicts with previous information.

6. Appears to be fabrication.

E USEFULNESS BOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITHI

|     |                               |     |
| --- | ----------------------------- | --- |
| X   | 1. were detail.               |     |
|     | 2. Less detail, more suveary. |     |
|     | 3. Loss fragmentary approach. |     |
|     | 4. Botter organisation.       |     |

5. Detter observation or better exploitation of source, or both.

6. (STATED IN COMMENT.)

X 7. NO DEFECT AFFECTING USEFULNESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

F ٥٢:٠٤٨SPORTING MEETS

|     |                         |     |
| --- | ----------------------- | --- |
| X   | 1. OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS. |     |
|     | 2. OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.   |     |

3. 4031 of Qua MINIMUM NEEDS.

4 FER OR NONE OF OUR NEEDS.

(ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT
G SATISFIES IT:

1. FULLY. NEQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED.

2. Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.

3. PARTIALLY, BUT NEED CONTINUES.

4. NEGLIGIBLY.

(IF SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU. OTHER RE-
H PORTING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS. AND YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT:)

1. NE BILL PRESENT A REQUIREMENT SOON.

2. OUR NEED DOLS NOT WARRANT A NEQUIREMENT FOR CS REPORTING.

EVALUATOR NAME (Please print) P. Adler

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED. Mar 1

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

We vou'd appreciate your contents evaluating this report.

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

As a status recrt, document is of moderate value. Generally neative progress of Yugo attempts to establist. a cormericial foothold 'n Mexico not in itself of great interest to this office, at this time, but would increase in interest in direct relation to information on decision of Belgrade to grant a lcan to Mexican govt.

COMPONENT I/RSB/EA

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED ar 6

PHONE x 3503

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

CONFIDENTIAL
(COLLECTOR/EUAT RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TATA DED BELOW)

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY State Department

EVALUATING AGEACY

DATE OF DISSEM. 27 January. 1961
FUNSER CS-3/463,061

Chief
FIELD NUMBER HM-5400
Country Mexico/Cuba

Subject Mexican Technicians Going to work in Cuba

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within 60 cys of receipt of request. Need for completion within this
time is prioritystandard. Indicate choices by x. If iton marked is printed in italics, please explain under
"Evaluator's Corvents. Normally, put one x in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these
aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

IMPORTANCE IN
RELATION TO
OUR NEEDS.

1. //

2. MODERATE

D. LITTLE

4. 
INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR BROBLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT.

1. SIGNIFICANTLY

2. MODERATELY

**x** 3. SUBSTANTIALLY

4. NEGLIGIBLY

ACCURAT٧.

1. SUBSTANTIALLY TOUE

**x** 2. CREDIBLE

3. Joulilol

4. Faloo

9. CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE D.

PELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION.

1. USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION

**x** 2. USEFUL FCO of INFORMATION

3. Sulliciently down

4. AT PRESENT DE LACE OTHER INFORMATION
   TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS

3. Conflicts with previous information

• Appears to be fabrication

USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITH

**x** 1. boro detall

1. Less detail, more summery

3. Loss foary approach

4. Butter organisation

s. Detter aberration or better spol.
tation of source, or both.

6. ISTATED IN CONVENTI

7. NO DEFECT AFFECTING USEFULNESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTHER REPORTING MEETS:

1. OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS.

2. CUR MIRINN SEEDS.

3. MOST OF OUR VINIMUM NEEDS.

4. OR NONE OF OUR NEEDS.

CONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT
SATISTICS ۱۲۰

1. FULLY, REQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED.

1. Partially. Portson of requiresent
   asy be closed.

3. PARTIALLY, BUT NEED CONTINUES.

4. NEGLIGIOLY

FIR SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU. OTHER RE
PORTING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS. AND
YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT:)

1. SE FILL PRESENT A REQUIREMENT SOON.

8. OUR NEED QUES NOT WARRANT A REQUIRE
   MENT FOR CS REPORTING.

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

EVALUATORS COLMENTS AND FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS

This report would have been of greater value if
it had included some comment on the political
orientation of the technicians (if any) and whether
they were being sent by the Mexican Government or
were hired on a purely personal basis.

NAME (Please print)

COMPONENT PHONE

EVALUATOR
Lawrence S. Eagleburger
State,/INR/RAR/MAB 182-2097

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED
March 17, 1961

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED
March 22, 1961.

12(20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

CONFIDENTIAL
(COLLECTOR/EVA TO RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO 'A ED BELOW)

# CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY Department of State

DATE OF DISTRID.: 2 November 1960

EVALUATING AGENCY

DISSEM. NUMBER: CS-3,454,933
Chief Country: Mexico/Micaragua

FIELD NUMBER: HMM-5264

Subject: Nicaraguan Revolutionary Activities in Mexico

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within 60 days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this line is XXXLX/standard. Indicate choices by "x." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's Comments." Normally, put one x in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

*   Major
*   MODERATE
*   LITTLE
*   NO

IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO OUR NEEDS.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1.  SIGNIFICANTLY
2.  SUMSTANTIALLY
3.  MODERATELY
4.  NEGLIGIBLY

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

ACCURACY.

1.  SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE
2.  CREDIBLE
3.  Doubtfol
4.  False
5.  CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE D.

RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION.

1.  USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION
2.  USEFUL FOR NES INFORMATION
3.  Sulliciently known
4.  AT PRESENT WE LACK OTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS
5.  Conflicts with previous information
6.  Appears tu be fabrication

USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITHI

1.  wore detail
2.  Less detail, more summary
3.  Loss fragmentary approach
4.  Better organisation
5.  Better observation or better exploi-tation of source, or both.
6.  ISTATED IN COMMENT)
7.  NO DEFECT AFFECTING LISEFULNESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTHER REPORTING MEETSI

1.  OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS.
2.  OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.
3.  MOST OF OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.
4.  FEW OR NONE OF OUR NEEDS.

(ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT SATISFIES ITI

1.  FULLY. REQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED.
2.  Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.
3.  PARTIALLY, BUT NEED CONTINUES.
4.  NEGLIGIBLY

(IF SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU. OTHER REPORTING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS. AND YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT)

1.  WE WILL PRESENT A REQUIPEMENT SOON.
2.  OUR NEED DOES NOT WARRANT A REQUIREMENT FOR CS REPORTING.

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

NAME (Please print) RT Morrison

COMPONENT: INR/RAR-P

PHONE: 3327

DATE REQUEST PECEIVED: 15-160

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED: 16/60


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

# CONFIDENTIAL

(COLLECTOR/E. QUA: RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO DATA ADDED BELOW)

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY Department of State

EVALUATING AGENCY

DATE OF DISTRIB. 1 November 1960

DISSEM. NUMBER CS-3/454,903

Chief Country México/Cuba

FIELD NUMBER HM-5245

Subject Propaganda Activities of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within 60days of receipt of request. need for completion within this time is standard. Indicate choices by "x". If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's Comments." Normally, put one x in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse..

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

1. Major

2. MODERATE

3. LITTLE

4. NO

IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO OUR NEEDS.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1.  SIGNIFICANTLY

2.  SUBSTANTIALLY

3.  MODERATELY

4.  NEGLIGIBLY

ACCURACY.

1. SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE

2. CREDIBLE

3. Doubtful

4. False

5. CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE D.

RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION.

1. USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION

2. USEFUL FOR NEW INFORMATION

3. Sufficiently known

4. AT PRESENT WE LACK OTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS

5. Conflicts with previous information

6. Appears to be fabrication

USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITHI

1. More detail

2. Lesa detest, more summary

3. Less fragmentary approach

4. Better organization

5. Better observation or better exploi- tation of source, or both.

6. ISTATED IN COMMENT)

7. NO DEFECT AFFECTING USEFULNESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTHER REPORTING MEETS:

1. OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS.

2. OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.

3. MOST OF OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.

4. FEW OR NUNE OF OUR NEEDS.

(ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT SATISFIES 171

1. FULLY. REQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED.

2. Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.

3. PARTIALLY. BUT NEED CONTINUES.

4. NEGLIGIBLY

(IF SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU. OTHER RE- POATING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS. AND YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT:)

1. DE VILL PRESENT A REQUIREMENT SOON.

2. OUR NEED DOES NOT WARRANT A REQUIRE- MENT FOR CS REPORTING.

EVALUATOR

NAME (Please print) RT Morrison

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED

Vi.v 18160

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

COMPONENT

PHONE

IINTP/RARP 3327

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED

nor19160


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

# CONFIDENTIAL

(CLOTOR/EATOR: RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO  ADDED PELOW)

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

OSI

EVALUATING AGENCY

DATE OF
REQUEST
26 September 1960
DISSEM
NUMBER
C8 3/451,014
FIELD
COUNTRY
Mexico/Soviet Union
HMM 5159

Subject
Mexican Government Purchase of Soviet Radioisotopes

EVALUATE: Please complete this evaluation within days of receipt of request. Used for completion within this
time is standard. Indicate choices by "x". If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under
"Evaluator's Comments." Normally, put one x in each appropriate section, otherwise, please cover each of these
aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

1. Major

2. Moderate

**A3** 3. Little

4. No

IMPORTANCE IN
RELATION TO
OUR NEEDS.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1. Significantly

2. Substantially

3. Moderately

**B4** 4. Negligibly

ACCURACY:

1. Substantially True

**C2** 2. Credible

3. Doubtful

4. False

5. Cannot be judged. See D.

RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION:

1. Useful for confirmation

2. Useful for new information

**D3** 3. Sufficiently known

4. At present we lack other information
   to judge accuracy or usefulness

5. Conflicts with previous information
   appears to be fabrication

USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITH:

1. More detail

2. Less detail...more summary

3. Less fragmentary approach

4. Better organization

5. Better observation or better exploi-
   tation of source, or both.

6. (Stated in comment)

E7 7. No defect affecting usefulness.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTHER REPORTING MEETS:

**F1** 1. One Important needs.

2. Two Minimum needs.

3. Most of our minimum needs.

4. Few or none of our needs.

(ONLY IF NO UOLA REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT
SATISFIES IT:

1. Fully. Requirement can be closed.

2. Partially. Portion of requirement
   may be closed.

3. Partially. Only need continues.

4. Negligibly

IF SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU. OTHER RE-
PORTING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS. AND
YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT:

**B2** 1. We will present a requirement soon

2. Our need does not warrant a require-
   ment cs. reporting.

EVALUATOR

WALLACE W. HOWARD

CIA REQUEST RECEIVED

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

Coordinated with LSD/SI - C. W. Delong

COMPONENT
OSI/MED
PHONE
3955
DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

# CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

United States Information Agency

DATE OF DISTRIB. 1 November 1950

Chief Country Mexico/Cuba

DISSEM. NUMBER CS-3/45,903

FIELD NUMBER 304-5245

Subject Propaganda Activities of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this time is standard. Indicate choices by "x." If item marked is printer in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's Comments." Normally, put one X in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

X 1. Major

2. MODERATE

3. LITTLE

4. NO

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO OUR NEEDS.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1. SIGNIFICANTLY

X 2. SUBSTANTIALLY

3. MODERATELY

4. NEGLIGIBLY

ACCURACY:

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

1. SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE

2. CREDIBLE

3. Doubtful

4. False

X 5. CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE 0.

RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION.

1. USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION

X 2. USEFUL FOR NEW INFORMATION

3. Sufficiently known

4. AT PRESENT OE LACK OTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS

5. Conflicts with previous information

6. Appears to be fabrication

USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITH:

Information on Cuban propaganda activities in Latin America is of major and continuing importance to this office, which must evaluate the nature, scope, and extent of these activities in order to combat them.

1. More detail

2. Lese detail, more summary

3. Less fragmentary approach

4. Better organization

5. Better observation or better exploitation of source, or both.

6. [STATED IN COMMENT]

X 7. NO DEFECT AFFECTING USEFULNESS.

OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTHER REPORTING WEETS:

1. OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS.

X 2. OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.

3. MOST OF OUR MINIMUM NEEDS.

4. FEW OR NONE OF OLD NEEDS.

(ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT SATISFIES IT:

1. FULLY. REQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED.

2. partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.

3. PARTIALLY. BUT NEED CONTINUES.

4. NEGLIGIBLY

(IF SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU, OTHER REPORTING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS, AND YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT.)

1. WE WILL PRESENT A REQUIREMENT SOON.

2. OUR NEED DOES NOT WARRANT A REQUIREMENT FOR REPORTING.

NAME (Please print)

Flora M. Roth

Office of Research and Analysis, USIA

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED November 8, 1960

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED November 14, 1960


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

# CONFIDENTIAL

(COLLECTOR/EVALUATOR: RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO DA&DD BELOW)

# CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY Department of State.

DATE OF EVALUATING AGENCY
3 October 1960

COUNTRY DISSEM. CS-3/L51,671
Name/Poland NUMBER

FIELD HG1-5186

SUBJECT
Projected Arrival in.Mexico of Polish Travel Officials

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this time is. Indicate choices by "X." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under 'Evaluator's Comments.' Normally, put one X in each appropriate section. otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF: COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

A * Is this information of sufficient use or value to warrant dissemination?

  1. Major

✔ 2. MODERATE IMPORTANCE IN
RELATION TO

  3. LITTLE. OUR NEEDS.

  4. NO

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:
B CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECTI

  1. SIGNIFICANTLY

  2. SUBSTANTIALLY

  3. MODERATELY

  4. NEGLIGIBLY

C ACCURACY.

  1. SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE

✔ 2. CREDIBLE

  3. Doubtful

  4. False

  5. CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE D.

D RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION.

  1. USEFUL FOR RE-CONFIRMATION

✔ 2. USEFUL FOR NEW INFORMATION

  3. Sufficiently known

  4. AT PRESENT WE LACK OTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS

  5. Conflicts with previous information

  6. Appears to be fabrication

E USEFULNESS COULD HAVE BEEN GREATER If m.

✔ 1. More detail

  2. Less detail, more summary

  3. Less fragmentary approach

  4. Better organization

  5. Better observation, better exploitation of source, or both

  6. STATED IN COMMENTS

  7. NO DEFECT AFFECTING USEFULNESS.

F OUR COLLECTION NEEDS

OTHER REPORTING MEETS:

  1. CUR IMPORTANT NEEDS.

  2. CUR MINIMUM NEEDS.

  3. MOST OF OUR MIN NEEDS.

  4. FEW OR NONE OF CUR NEEDS.

G ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED REPORT SATISFIES IT:

  1. FULLY. REQUIREMENT CAN BE CLOSED

  2. Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.

  3. PARTIALLY, BUT NEED CONTINUES.

  4. NEGLIGIBLY

H (IF SUBJECT IS IMPORTANT TO YOU, OTHER RE-PORTING DOES NOT MEET MINIMUM NEEDS, AND YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT):

  1. WE WILL PRESENT A REQUIREMENT SOON.

  2. OUR NEED DOES NOT WARRANT A REQUIREMENT FOR CS REPORTING.

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS
Information of this nature is of value to PAR, for it provides new data and/or corroboration of information from other sources on
Latin American - Poloe contents. PAR has continuing interest in receipt of reports of this nature.


NAME (Please print) COMPONENT PHONE

EVALUATOR DATE REQUEST RECEIVED DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

# CONFIDENTIAL

(COLLECTOR: EVA TOR: RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO. A ADDED BELOW)

# CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

ORR

EVALUATING AGENCY: Peo in OR 5-60

DATE OF DISTRIB: 26 September 1960

DISSEM. NUMBER: CS-3/51,014

LIFEAT Production

Chief Country: Mexico/Soviet Union

FIELD NUMBER: HMX-5159

Lifiat

Subject: Mexican Government Purchase of Soviet Radioisotopos

I 27 October 1960

EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within 60 days of receipt of request. wred for completion within this
ime is standard. Indicate choices by "x." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's Comments." sormally, put one in each appropriate section. otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further notes on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

*   MODERATE
*   LITTLE
*   NO

IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO OUR NEEDS.

FORMATION IN THIS REPEAT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR ANCOLEOCE OF THE SUBJECT:

*   SIGNIFICANTLY.
*   SUBSTANTIALLY
*   MODERATELY
*   NEGLIGIBLY

ACY:

*   SUBSTANTIALLY TALE
*   CREDIBLE
*   Doubtful
*   False
*   CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE 0.

ATTION TO OTHER INFORMATION:

*   USEFUL FOR CONFIRM
*   USEFUL FOR NEC
*   Sufficiently dosa
*   AT PRESENT DE LACE OTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY DE SEFULNESS
*   Conflicte with pro..... information
*   Appears to be labrecatio

CULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN COLAPCO DITHI

*   More detail
*   Less detail, warr
*   Loss fragmentary
*   Better organstal
*   Better observation or better explai tatson of source, or both.
*   ISTATED IN COMM
*   NO DEFECT AFFECTING FUNES.

COLLECTION NEEDS:

RIPCAPING MEETS OUR IMPORTANT NEEDS. LA MINIMUM NEEDS. Must of OUR MINIMAL28. NONE OF OUR LOS. YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT
FULLY REQUIREA DE CLOSED. partenlly, portionement may be closed. PanfiaLLY, BUT ConTINURS. NEULIGIGLY FORCIERRE QUES NOT MET EDS, AND PILED NG REQUIDE BILL PRESENT & SOON. •S DOIS 7 ..? & REQUIRE

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW UP QUESTIONS

It is impossible to tell if the USSR prices to Mexico are in line with world prices or not. According to a 1957 Soviet price list, potassium is 3 rubles per millicurie, fodine is 8-to 13 rubles per millicurie and gold is 1 to 3 rubles per millicurie.depending upon the form of the carrier. According to the report the average price is $0.15 per aillicurie. The quantities of each isotope however, are not given.

Radio isotope prices have changed in the US markedly over the past few years. For example, the price for gold 193 has changed. from 20 cents per millicurie priori to Hay 1959 to 6 cents per millicurie after May 1959. Unless more detailed information is obtained, the information has only moderate value to us.

COMPONENT

PHONE x3942

RD S. STH

Toate to AION FOREARDED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

CONFIDENTIAL
RECLASS ACCORDING TO DA ADDED ON FRONT) 17 JURY 1962

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY: OPR

Issue Number: 05-30-39,051
Date of Distrib: 1 June 1960
Evaluating Agency:
Field Number: HO4-L943
Chief Country: Mexico/Soviet Union
Date: July 1960 19 July 60
Subject: Mex. Policy of Soviet Commercial Office in Mexico

Evaluation: Please complete this valuation within 60 days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this time is priority/standard. Indicate choices by "x." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's comments." Normally, put one x in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

A.
1. Major
2. Moderate
3. Little

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO O.R. NEEDS.

B. CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1. Significantly
2. Moderately
3. Negligibly

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

C. ACCURACY:

1. Substantially true
2. Credible
3. Doubtful
4. False
5. Cannot be judged. See D.

D. RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION

1. Useful for confirmation
2. Useful for new information
3. Sufficiently known
4. At present we lack other information to judge accuracy or usefulness
5. Conflicts with previous information
6. Appears to be fabrication

E. USEFULNESS COULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITH:

1. More detail
2. Less detail; more summary
3. Less fragmentary approach
4. Better organization
5. Better observation or better exploitation of source, or both.
6. Stated in comment
7. No defect affecting usefulness

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

REQUIREMENTS

F. ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED IN REPORT SATISFIES IT:

1. Fully, requirement can be closed.
2. Partially. Part of requirement may be closed
3. Partially, reporting continues.
4. Negligibly

G. DEGREE TO WHICH REPORTING PROVIDES PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT:

1. Fully
2. Substantially
3. Little
4. None

H. IF IN D ABOVE YOU CITED "LITTLE" OR "NONE," AND REQUIREMENT IS?

1. Met
2. No requirement

I. IF G ABOVE I CITED A REQUIREMENT WITH-

1. In 3 days
2. In 1 day

J. IF G ABOVE 2 DOES NOT WARRANT A REQUIRE- MENT FOR 1 or 2 REPORTING

Robert Naper

COMPONENT: ORR/S/TF/SP
PHONE: 5636
Date evaluation forwarded


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

# CONFIDENTIAL
RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO DATA (RED ON FRONT) 29 JUP

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY GRR

FIELD NUMBER: HM-L963

DATE OF DISTRIB: 8 June 1960

EVALUATING AGENCY:

Chief Country: Mexico/Soviet Union

DATE: 15 July 1960

Subject: Disagreement between Mexican Businessman and Soviet Commercial Officer over Money Owed for Transfers Purchased by the Mexican Government.

(EVALUATOR: Please complete this evaluation within 60 days of receipt of request. area for completion within this time is priority/standard. Indicate choices by "X." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's comments." normally, but one x in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further notes on use of this form, see reverse.)

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

1. Major
2. Moderate
3. Little

IMPORTANCE IN RELATION TO OUR NEEDS

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

*   CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT
    1.  Significantly
    2.  Moderately
    3.  Negligibly
*   ACCURACY
    1.  Substantially True
    2.  Credible
    3.  Doubtful
    4.  False
    5.  Cannot be judged. See D.
*   RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION
    1.  Useful for confirmation
    2.  Useful for new information
    3.  Sufficiently known
    4.  At present lack other information to judge accuracy or usefulness
*   Conflicts with previous information
*   Appears to be fabrication
*   USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITH:
    1.  More detail
    2.  Less detail, more summary
    3.  Less fragmentary approach
    4.  Better organization
    5.  Better observation or better exploitation of source, or both
    6.  No defect affecting usefulness.

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

REQUIREMENTS

1.  (ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) ARE/IS SATISFIED ITS:
    1.  Fully. Requirement can be closed.
    2.  Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.
    3.  Partially, but need continues.
    4.  Negligibly
*   DEGREE TO WHICH OTHER (NON-CS) REPORTING PROVIDES ESSENTIAL INFORMATION ON SUBJECT.
    1.  Fully
    2.  Substantially
    3.  Little
    4.  None
*   (IF IN G YOU MARKED "LITTLE" OR "NONE," AND IF YOU WANT... DO REQUIREMENT.)
    1.  Will present a requirement within 30 days.
    2.  Our need does not warrant a requirement for CS reporting.

NAME (Please print):

Robert Napier

COMPONENT: ORR/S/TF/SP

PHONE: 8036

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED:

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED: 11 July 1960

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

# CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY

(COLLECTOR/EVALUATO RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO DATA)

ORR EVALUATING AGENCY

DATE OF DISTRIB. FIELD NUMBER

CS-3/43,301 18 April 1960 HC-4858

Chief Country Mexico/Soviet Union

Subject: Soviet plan to sell reprint to Mexican Government Agency

Evaluator: Please complete this valuation within 60 days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this time is priority/standard. Indicate choices by "X". If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluators comments". Normally, put uses in each appropriate section. Otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further notes on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

1. MAJOR

2. MODERATE

3. LITTLE

4. NONE

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS.

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT.

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1. SIGNIFICANTLY

2. MODERATELY

3. NEGLIGIBLY

RELIABILITY:

1. SUBSTANTIALLY TRUE

2. CREDIBLE

3. DOUBTFUL

4. FALSE

5. CANNOT BE JUDGED. SEE D.

RELATES TO OTHER INFORMATION:

1. USEFUL FOR CONFIRMATION

2. USEFUL FOR NEW INFORMATION

3. SUFFICIENTLY KNOWN

4. AT PRESENT WE LACK OTHER INFORMATION TO JUDGE ACCURACY OR USEFULNESS

5. Conflicts with previous information

6. Appears to be fabrication

USEFULNESS WOULD HAVE BEEN GREATER WITH:

1. More detail

2. Less detail, more summary

3. Less fragmentary approach

4. Better organization

5. Better observation or better exploitation of source, or both

6. (STATE IN COMMENTS)

7. NO EFFECT AFFECTING USEFULNESS.

REQUIREMENTS

(ONLY IF YOUR REQUIREMENT IS CITED.) REPORT SATISFIES IT:

1. Fully. Requirement can be closed

2. Partially. Portion of requirement may be closed.

3. Partially, but need continues.

4. Negligibly

DESIRES TO WHICH OTHER SOURCE(S) REPORTING PROVIDES ESSENTIAL INFORMATION ON SUBJECT:

1. Fully

2. Substantially

3. Little

4. None

(IF YOU CHECKED "LITTLE" OR "NONE," AND IF YOU HAVE FILED NO REQUIREMENT.)

1. Will present a requirement within 1 to 30 days.

2. CIA needs does not warrant a requirement for CS reporting.

NAME (Please print)

Eugene Erro

EVALUATOR

DATE REQUEST RECEIVED

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

COMPONENT PHONE

ORR 5/143 4285

DATE EVALUATION FORWARDED

26 May 60

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF COMM.    | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION              |                 |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------- |
| OPERATIONAL/MAURICE | FILE NO. 50                          |                 |
|                     | DISPATCH. OR SOURCE DOC SYMBOL NO. 6 |                 |
|                     | E-MA-15007                           | SYMBOL NO. 32/A |
| 8. ANALYST          | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM & DATE OF INFO.  | 9. EVALUATION   |

| 8. DATE PROCESSED | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO HI FILE NO. |

PERTINENT INFORMATION.

THIS REFER SECRET DOCUMENT
FILED IN: TOP SECRET CONTROL
SECTION BY: TS-175206

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO 18 May 1960

FORM 8-67 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. SECRET 17-647


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

CONFIDENTIAL
(COLLECTOR/EVALIOR: RECLASSIFY ACCORDING TO DI ADDED ON FRONT)

CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY ORR

CS-3/428266

Chief Country: Mexico/Soviet Union

Subject: Soviet Negotiations for Japan Cotton

EVALUATOR: Please complete this valuation within days of receipt of request. Need for completion within this time is priority/standard. Indicate choices by "x." If item marked is printed in italics, please explain under "Evaluator's Comments." Normally.. put one x in each appropriate section, otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further NOTES on use of this form, see reverse.

SUBJECT OF THIS REPORT IS OF:

1. Major

X 2. Moderate

3. Little

4. No

INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT:

CONTRIBUTES TO OUR KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUBJECT:

1. Significantly

X 2. Moderately

3. Negligibly

ACCURACY:

X 1. Substantially True

2. Credible

3. Doubtful

4. False

RELATION TO OTHER INFORMATION:

1. Useful confirmation

X 2. Useful for new information

3. Sufficiently known

At present of late other information to judge accuracy or usefulness

1. Contains contradictions

2. Appears to be fabrication

Usefulness would have been greater with:

1. More detail

2. Less detail, more summary

3. Less fragmentary approach

4. Better organization

X 5. Better elaboration or better exploitation of source, or both.

6. Greater timeliness

7. No defect affecting usefulness

REQUIREMENTS:

100% of your requirement is cited:

Report Satisfies it:

1. Fully and closes

2. Partially - portion of requirement may be closed.

3. Partially - but need continues.

4. Not at all

Source is or has furnished identical reporting precisely as initial information on subject:

1. Fully

2. Substantially

3. Little

4. None

(If in A you checked "Little" or "None" and if you have filed no requirement.)

1. Will present a requirement within 30 days.

2. Our need does not warrant a requirement for CS Reporting.

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS

Evaluator: PEPE FLETCHER, Jr.

Request Received: 15 mar 1960

Component: CPR/M/A&G

Date Evaluation Forwarded: 29 mar 1960

Phone: x3552


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

# CIA REQUEST FOR EVALUATION BY Department of State

CONFIDENTIAL

(COLLECTOR/EXAM

*RECIASSIFY ACCESSI TO PA ADDED ON FRONT*)

Title Number: 5-3/123,266

Date of DISTRIB. 19 February 1960

Field number: 19M-4761

Chief Country: Mexico/Soviet Union

Subject: Soviet Negotiations for Mexican Cotton

*Instructions: please complete this valuation within 50 days of receipt of request. Used for completion within this time is priority standard. Indicate choices by "X" of item named is printed in Italics, please explain under Evaluator's Comments. Normally, but one X in each appropriate section, otherwise, please cover each of these aspects in your comments. For further notes on use of this form, see reverse.*

SUBJECT of THIS REPORT IS OF:

COLLECTOR'S COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS

Is this information of sufficient use or value to warrant dissemination? Please comment.

EVALUATOR'S COMMENTS AND FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS





Evaluator: Donald P. Sivisher

Date request received: Feb 27 1960

Date evaluation forwarded: March 4, 1960


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

# 2

LIFEAT
PrOTOCTIOT

SUBJECT: Soviet Commercial Activities in Mexico

CS-3/21,511

DATE: 15 Decmber 1959

HMM-45367
15 February 1960


What specific aspects of this report are of least or value? Please indicate and comment.

Information on the type of machinery offered or sold to Mexico or to Latin America is available from overt sources.

Information on prices is interesting and useful. Price quotations would be more helpful if specifications as well as serial numbers were available.

Information indicating whether Soviet prices conform to or vary from world market prices.

Information on pools that the Soviets are interested in buying is of some importance, although this is generally available from overt sources.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

SECRET.

See 100M 8486, 11 Feb 1960, LAURICIA, filed C/WHD's office,

This dispatch was written by FI,D in reply to 10016 14362, 20 Jan 1960 and should be reviewed before LIFEAT or LIMIT are submitted for renewal.

IMPORTANT

> [Figure: Circle surrounding text LIFLAT/MMM prod LIMIT/ops]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WHD

INFO Chief, KUDOVE:
Attn: Division D

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico

SUBJECT Projects LIFEAT and LIENIT

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET/KA POK.

SIMBOL AND
A-11372
KAPOK-1737

20 January 1960

REFERENCES See para. 5
MA-13934, 16 Oct. 1959
MA-13828, 2 Oct. 1959.

1. During the recent TDY visit to this Station of David M. FREDLUND(p) of KUTUBE D, the interrelationship between the conversations recorded under Project LIFEAT which bear on Soviet Cormunication and the regular provision of the hard copy of Soviet official diplomatic com-munications obtained by the LIMIT activity were discussed. The Sation indicated that frequentl; LIFEAT obtained conversations which referred directly to specific messages: by content; by seeking clari-fication of garbled or missing groups; by officials who are to or have signed the massage in question; and on one or two occasions the messages(admittedly not sensitive) were dictated to secretaries over the telephone.

2. Examples of the above conversations were forwarded to Head-quarters in reference dispatches. The conversations with FREDLUND resulted in the suggestion that KUTUBE D should regularly receive the LIFEAT material when it relates to Soviet messages. Also that KUTUBE D in forwarding this type of LIFEAT material to ODIACH would record that the drop copies of the Soviet messages are normally forardea to ODIN CH (source LIEPIT) and that if there is any value to ODINdi in tying the two sources together for further processing by ODINCH, the Station would cross-reference the forwarding dispatch numbers. This Station would appreciate receiving, at an early date, any Headquarters comments.

3. This Station is willing to continue to exploit. LIFEAT material for LAURICLE purposes should this be julged of value by Headquarters, At the present time Willard C. CURTIS is personally handling this phase of LIFEAT reporting.

4. KUTUBE D should note that at the present time the LIMIT source is providing Soviet, Japanese, Czech and Polish drop copies to the Station. The traffic is over one month old upon receipt and is in Station's hands only for a few hours. The source is capable however of obtaining traffic from all sources filing officially in Mexico City and the Station can do this without increasing the operational risk.

5. The Mexico City Station would appreciate any comments or guidance on either this phase of LIFEAT reporting or of LIEMIT which KUTUBE D could give.

Willard C. CURTIS

18 Jan 1960

Distribution:

3HQS(1- Chief, KUDOVE:
Attn: Division D)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WiD

INFO

FROM Chief of Station, Mexd co

SUBJECT Soviet Communications

CLASSIFICATION SECRET/KAPOK

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO HMM-A-14393 PAPOK-1739

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO 50-8-11

22 January 1960

RE43) (CHECK ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING PEQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE FUDGED
BY QUALIFIED HO DESK ONLY

ACTION MOUIRED Please route this dispatch via KUTULLE/D

REFERENCEIS)
A. HMM-A-143723

B. HM-A-14383

SOURCE: LIFEAT

1. Under reference B photographs of hard copies of Soviet traffic for November 1959 were forwarded to lHeadquarters. (SOURCE: LIEMIT)

2. On 27 November 1959 the following conversation took place:

"Anatoliy Alekseyevich PAVLENKOV tells Vladimir KOLOKOLNIKOV that he just spoke with New York. PAVLENKOV says that EECLOV(ph) called. PAVLENKON says that lioscow wants to know how many luncheons and dinners there were yesterday. PAVLENKOV saya.he counted 3 luncheons and one dinner. PAVLENKOV says that a cable should be sent saying that on the 26th the bankers gave a lunchen for MIKOYAII and that MIKOYAN gave a dinner for the officials of the Government. Another thing Hoscow wants to know what word was left out in KOLOKOLNIKOV's cable which was about KOLOKOLNIKOV'8 account at Poza Rica. In BELTRAN's speech there apparently was one word left out by the operators. KOLOKOLNIKOV will look at the text and see what it is. PAVLENKOV will come over and then they will send the cable. KOLOKOLNIKOW then suggests that they call BEGLOV in New York and give him this information. KOLOKOLLIKOV will do that."

"KOLOKOLNIKOV tells WO(woman outside) to write dan what he tells her. KOLOKOLNIKOV tells her that yesterday the Ministry of Industry and Trade, SALINAS, and the President of the Banco Exterior, ZEVADA, gave a luncheon for MIKOYAN at the Hotel Ambassador. In the evening A.I. MIKOYAN gave a dinner for officials of the Nexican Government. KOLOKOLNIKOV adds that the speech that ROLDAN(should be ROLDAN instead of BELTRAN) made the works "to show were left out. KOLOKOLNIKOV tells her to send this to Moscow. KOLOKOLIKOV will call tomorrow and let WO know when he will return. KOLOKOLNIKOV has to get nis visa from the American Embassy."

Willard C. CURTIS

20 January 1960

Distribution:

3- HQ3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET/KAPOK

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico

Soviet Communications

REFERENCE: HQC-A-14392 KAPOK-1738
HEADQUARTERS FILE NO: 50-8-11

DATE: 22 January 1960

ACTION REQUIRED: Call to Attention of KUTUBE/D

SOURCE: LIFEAT/LIMERICK

REFERENCES:
A. HMM-A-13934
B. HMM-A-14372

1. The following is a quotation of a conversation held on 2 December 1959:

A man outside called the Soviet Ambassy, introduced himself as Yevgeniy N. VOYEVODIN and asked Yelena Ivanovna FILIPOVA, secretary of the Commercial Office, if he could still send a cable off(that late) on that date. FILIPOVA promised to try to get the cable off. VOYEVODIN then said he wished the cable sent to: RAZNOEKSPORT, Moscow, 9019, 9021 and then dictated:

"Exposition will close on 15th of December. To deliver the souvenirs is too late.

VOYEVODIN."

2. It is requested that this pouch be routed via KUTUBE/D.

Willard C. Curtis

Willard C. CURTIS

20 Jan. 1960

Distribution:

3 - HQS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, MiD

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico

SUBJECT: Soviet communications

ACTION REQUIRED: Please route this dispatch via KUTU/D

REFERENCE(S):
A. 10X-A-11372
B. 10X-A-11333.

DATE: 22 January 1960

CHECK ONE:
MARKED FOR INDEXING
[X] NO INDEXING REQUIRED
INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HD DESK ONLY

1. Under reference B photographs of hard copies of Soviet Embassy traffic (Source: LIMIT) for November 1957 were forwarded to Headquarters.

2. On 23 November 1959 Vladimir KUZNETSOV spoke with Ivan Ivarovich (possibly EUKOV) in New York. KUZNETSOV said he wished a cable sent to Moscow concerning the departure of Anastas I. MIKOYAN (Soviet Vice Premier who had been visiting Mexico, 18-26 November 1959). KUZNETSOV said he himself would fly out "on Monday." A woman took to telephone and KUZNETSOV dictated the following:

"Today at 0900 local time the First Deputy Minister of the Council of Ministers USSR, A.I. MIKOYAN, and his escorting party flew out of the capital of Mexico on the 11-18 for the Fatherland. MIKOYAN was seen off at the airport by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mexico, Manuel Tello; the Minister of Foreign Trade, Raul Salinas; Minister of Education, Yanez Bodet; and officials of the Foreign Ministry. The Soviet Ambassador to Mexico also saw A.I. MIKOYAN off. V.I. BAVYKIN, and workers of the Soviet Embassy. Before the flight out A.I. MIKOYAN made a short speech in which he thanked the President of Mexico, Lopez Mateos, members of the Mexican Government, the whole Mexican people for the warm reception which was shown him and his escorting party in their country."

3. KOLOKOLKOV then dictated another cable. This cable was the message that FIRYUBIN sent from aboard his plane to the President of Mexico thanking him for the reception that he received in Mexico. (NOTE: The translator "slipped" and did not transcribe this cable verbatim.)

Willard C. Curtis

20 January 1960

Distribution:

3 - HAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

From: Mexico, Mexico City

SECRET

Report No: HMM-1831 Local File No:

No. of Pages: 1

No. of Enclosures: 1(for Station files only)

Report Made By: Thomas G. URQUHART

Approved By: Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
By copy to: 3 - Hqs(1 for KUWRAP)
2 - Files(1 w/att)
Orally to:

Source Cryptonym: A. LIKAYAK-2
B. LIFEAT/LIMERICK
References: HMM-1765, 12 Sep, 1956, p.9
Source, Operational Data, and Comments:

SUBJECT: Alicia ROMERO J. (Garzun)

Source obtained the information contained in the attached report from his sister, who is a journalist, and from a copy of the magazine on which subject is employed. He also obtained information from an address investigation on subject. Owing to the type of information developed on RVERO, she is being included in this Station's series of LCEPROVE subjects.

Classification

SECRET

![copy symbol]

FORM NO. 51-59
FEB 1948

50-6-321/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

# SECURITY INFORMATION

# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

COUNTRY: Mexico

SUBJECT: Alicia RIRO G. (Garzun)

REPORT NO: HMM-1331

DATE OF INFO: May - August 1956

PLACE ACQUIRED: Mexico City

DATE ACQUIRED: 12 Sept. 1956

DATE OF REPORT: 19 Sept. 1956

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: Source A: Mexican business with contacts in journalistic circles B-2 (paras 1, 3, 4 and 5)
Source 3: Source with access to Soviet official circles in Mexico Bloc (para 2)

The following information has been developed on Alicia ROMERO in suspicious contact of Grigori NIKIPORETS, Soviet Naval Attache, MEXICO

1. An investigation of Avenida Coyoacan 624-2, the residence given as that of subject, showed it to be occupied by Maria Eugenia Romero de HARO. Her husband is related to Captain Antonio HARO Oliva, husband of Nadie HARO Oliva, who is an actress in a show called "The Four Colonels."

2. It has been ascertained that on 7 May 1956 a man described as Major HARO Oliva, a movie producer, was in contact with Yuriy PAPOROV, Soviet Cultural and intelligence officer. MEXICO

3. Alicia ROMERO G. has been identified as in charge of the photographic department of a magazine named FRAZ, published at Avenida Juarez 20-22 in Mexico City.

COMMENT: A copy of this magazine is being retained in Station files.

The director of the magazine is Jorge HARO Cabrera, husband of Maria Eugenia Romero de HARO (noted above) and he resides at Avenida Coyoacan 624-2. He pays 750 pesos per month rent.

4. Alicia ROMERO G. is the sister-in-law of Jorge HARO Cabrera. She is the daughter of Maria de la Luz(widow) de ROMERO. Alicia ROMERO reportedly is the mistress of various politicians. She claims her home to be at Av. Coyoacan 624-2. Alicia ROMERO is reported to be pro-Communist and to be a member of the FRI. She is to be supported by that party in the forthcoming elections for the post of Federal Deputy.

COMMENT: Her connections with politics and politicians explain some of the report noted in the reference.

# SECURITY INFORMATION

FORM NO.
APR 1953 51-58 PREVIOUS EDITIONS MAY BE USED.

![scribbles and security identification numbers]

YURIY PAPOROV. 201-82485 CIT: USSR JOVIKT ELLTURAL AND INTELLIGENCE OFFICER. MEXICO
A SCERTAINED THAT ON 7 MAY 56 SUBJ WAS IN CONTACT WITH HAJOR HARO CLIVA, AMELIE PRODUCER DOI SEPT. YISE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)