# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: SANTO DOMINGO

ACTION:

INFO:

SECRET 1322032

AUG 14 1964

DIR WAVE INFO PACY LANT CITE SOOM 3555 (SAYYOCK ACTING)

INTEL

SUPCATA: [ EM-1. EMGEM-1 HAD SAID ON 2 JULY 64

THAT FOLCH AND LUNE WERE A.IDING CUSAN REBELS.

INDEX FOLCH, LUNA, FILED 132248

REPORT CLASS SECRET/NO FOREIGN DISSEM HOC 1435

DOM INICAN REPUBLIC/CUBA

SUBJ: SUPPORT OF THE DOMIN CAN AIR FORCE AND NAVY FOR CUBAN EXILE OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

DO: EARLY AUGUST 1964

PARA: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO DOMINGO (13 AUGUST 64)

APPR:

IN COMMENT:

RELEASING

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

BASED ON:

LIAISON

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

TO:

FROM:

ACTION

INFO

PAGE 2

SOURCE DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL 24

(F) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN MILITARY CIRCLES.

IN COMMENT:

RELEASING INFO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

BASED ON

LIAISON

REPRODUCE BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PP

TOCS

TOCS
PRECEDENCE

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC / CUBA

TOCS: ...

DATE OF INFO.: .../.../196...

Distr:...

SUBJECT: SUPPORT OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND NAVY
FOR CUBAN EXILE CACHING OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

PLACE & DATE ACQ.: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SANTO DOMINGO (13 AUG 1964) REF: ...

IN: 35

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL: 24 FIELD REPORT NO:...

DOMINICAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (1) WITH EXCELLENT CONTACTS IN MILITARY
CIRCLES

APPRAISAL: 3

1. THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND THE DOMINICAN
   NAVY ARE ALLOWING CRAFT MANNED BY CUBAN EXILES, TO
   CACHE ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ON THE DOMINICAN COAST
   AT LAS PENA AND PUNTA LUNA, SOUTH OF MONTE CRISTI.
   THE BOATS ARRIVE AND DEPART QUICKLY, WITH PERMISSION
   FROM THE DOMINICAN NAVY, TO CACHE THEIR CARGO. THE
   ARMS AND OTHER SUPPLIES ARE NOT OF DOMINICAN ORIGIN.
   THE CUBAN EXILES DO NOT REMAIN ASHORE, BUT LEAVE WITH
   THE CRAFT THAT BROUGHT THEM.[^3]

2. AIR FORCE COL. JUAN H. FOLCH PEREZ, COMMANDER

[^3]: This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

STATE/INR CIA ARMY/ACI NAVY AIR SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA
OCI
CMI
OCB
ORE
OG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROL

NO FOREIGN DISSEN
TOCS

PAGE 2

OF THE A.IR FORCE BASE IN SANTIAGO, IS IN CHARGE OF THIS
OPERATION. (SOURCE COMMENT: IN EARLY JULY, FOLCH AND
GEN. ATILA LUNA WERE REPORTEDLY AIDING CUBAN EXILES.)
THE DOMINICAN ARMY IS NOT DIRECTLY INVOLVED IN THE CUBAN
EXILE OPERATIONS.

3. FIELD DISSEM. STATE ARMY NAV AIR CINCSO CANOLANT.

(END OF MESSAGE)

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET

FORM
2096

CONTINUATION OF TDCS INFORMATION REPORT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)