# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> [Figure: a message with routing information, classification markings, and content related to intelligence operations.]

**CLASSITILU MESSMUL**

**SECRET**

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : PARIS

ACTION: SAS 8 (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1735 19 JUN DO)

INFO: DOP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, WE 4, WH 7, S/C2

SECRETI

7727Z

XPRITY DIR INFO PRITY MADR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9068

TYPIC

REF A PARI 9888 (IN 61964)

19 JUN 1963

B PARI 9849 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS) (IN 63094)

1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 13 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824 RAY HAS (IN 56769) ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT UNRUMBLE 6, UNPAPIST, AND AT LEAST ONE CONTACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND HAS APPROACHED EMB IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM UNRUMBLE 2 WITH SOME • INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP, VITH UNRUMBLE 2. NRIMBLE 2 VILL NEVERTHELESS DE VITRING UNRUNBLE 6 CURRENT RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AIRPORT BY ALBERTO BAEZ NI TH WHOM RAY SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEEMS BE CLOSEST TO RAY ANONG -HIS CONTACTS PARIS

2. CABRERA DID NOT PHOHE UR COME PARLS OVER VEEXEND.

CONTINGE MONITOR DEVELOPMENTS THROUGH UNRUMBLE 6.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 631 PAGE 2

2. RAY BELIEVES CABRERA WILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO
   COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE WHO IN PUERTO RICO AND
   KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP
   BUT PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED
   BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.

4. KUBARK STAFFER (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM
   MET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S
   PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLON DE MOULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED
   (IN 60159)
   IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER 63
   JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR
   FRANQUI SHOULD HE DEFECT.

5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN
   NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORK-
   ING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES
   (IN 63152)
   DIR 48158 AND PARI 9867( (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS).

6. POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUEDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN 8 JUNE
   UNSOX. AMB GRAMATGES MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO (PRESUMABLY
   THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA) CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING
   THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUI ASKED
   FOR SOME MORE PEOPLE FROY THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION.
   SO 12 UNE UNSIERRA SNAFU 12 GONNENTS TOMUSNAFU THAT
   ROME "GUSANOS WERE AT THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH
   POLICE VENT BY CUBAN ASK IF THEY SHOULD GUARD THE EXHIBIT.
   HOWEVER THIS LATTER PROBABLY NOT REFERENCE TO QUEDEL OTHER THAN
   THIS STA HAS NO INDICATION FRANQUI HAS TALKED ABOUT APPROACH
   TO HIM.

7. RAY FEELS TRIP EUROPE WAS VERY PROFITABLE. DESPITE FACT
   HE HAS NO FIRM COMMITTMENT FROM FRANQUI, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 63271 PAGE 3

SEEMS CONFIDENT THEY WILL JOIN HIM EVENTUALLY. HE FEELS HE HAS TIGHTENED UP AND INSPIRED HIS "ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS GAINED MPRESSION FROM TALKS WITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSIONMENT AMONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROUN CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO CLEANLY AND SIMPLY. WANTS DEVOTE OWN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEM.

8. RAY ASKED FOR FOLLI

A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMULATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.

B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN IDENTICAL SV SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. WOULD APPRECIATE HOS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SV SYSTEM.

C. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH NAUNAN PER PARI 8947. WOULD APPRECIATE HOS FOLLOWUP ON THIS.

9. FEEL ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP WAS RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF WORKING RELATION WITH RAY. BELIEVE HE HIT IT OFF WELL WITH NAUMAN GROVERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE OUR SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SONEVHAT SOME PAST PROBLEMS XUBARK RELATIONSHIP.

10. INDEX.

SECRET C/S COMMENT: RAY DEPARTING PARI AF 015 ARRIVING NY 1300 HOURS 18 JUNE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)