# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER C/H TOTAL COPIES 14 RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEI

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT Z
ACTION UNIT

RF FILE VR DDO OGC C/SS

1 4

2 5

ACTION# C/EUR-3 C/EA 3

3 6

T 889585 EIA165 PAGE 01 IN 908916

TOR:041017Z MAY 76 (HAGU) 29003

SECRET 240921Z MAY 76 STAFF

CITE (THE HAGUE) 29003 (BALILES ACTING)

TO: (LONDON) DIRECTOR, (JAKARTA) INFO (PARIS).

RYBAT, ELMHBLANKET

REF: (LONDON) 72167 CIN 906466)

1. STATION RECORDS REFLECT THAT WILLIAM L. OLTMANS

(201-155221) IS DUTCH FREE LANCE JOURNALIST WHO HAS LONG HISTORY
OF SENSATIONAL JOURNALISM AND HOMOSEXUAL ACTIVITY.

ALTHOUGH NOT A COMMUNIST, HE ESPOUSES EXTREMELY
LEFTIST VIEWS AND FANATICALLY BELIEVES THAT
COMMUNISM OFFERS BEST FUTURE FOR INDONESIA. ALLEGEDLY
HIS GOOD ACCESS TO PROMINENT INDONESIANS IS DUE
TO PAST INITMATE RELATIONS WITH NUMBER OF
INDONESIANS, INCLUDING SUKARNO.
HE HAS MAINTAINED A RUNNING BATTLE WITH NATO
SECRETARY GENERAL JOSEF LUNS, WHOM HE
ACCUSES OF MISLEADING FORMER DUTCH PRIME MINISTER
WILLEM DRIES ON POLICY TOWARD THE FORMER
WEST NEW GUINEA. OLTMANS HAS TRAVELED TO THE USSR
AND THE BLOC ON A NUMBER OF OCCASIONS AND HAS

Form 547a Processed

SECRET

P&L DISSEM
RYDAT
RECORD COPY

5 MAY 1976


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

FORM 30206
7-71 MFG. 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY__________PER__________RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES
S E C R E T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH/
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

RF FILE VR

STAFF
1 4
2 5
3 6

T 889585 EA165 PAGE 02-02 IN 908916
TOR:041017Z MAY 76 (HAGU) 29003

MAINTAINED CONTACT WITH A NUMBER OF SOVIET DIPLOMATS
IN THE HAGUE WHO WERE KGB SUSPECTS. HE IS AN
INVETERATE NAME DROPPER AND CLAIMS
TO KNOW. AMONG OTHERS, COLUMNIST JACK ANDERSON
AND HOWARD JONES, FORMER US AMBASSADOR TO
INDONESIA.

2. ABOVE FOR PASSAGE TO (JAGUAR). IF
   (JAGUAR) HAS NOT ALREADY REQUESTED TRACES ON
   OLTMANS FROM (SYMPATHIZER) SUGGEST THAT THEY
   DO SO.

3. FILE: 73-6-46/3 X-REF 201-155221.

E2 IMPDET

S E C R E T


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)