# SECRET

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PAGE 21

STAFF

IN 805199

SECRET 261330Z JAN 76 STAFF

CITE MADRID 29824

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, LISBON

MHSPLASH

1. MORNING 25 [JAN KALBING] RECEIVED PHONE CALL AT HOME FROM YOUNG MAN WHO SAID HE CHRIS PHILLIPS, SON OF DAVE PHILLIPS. HE SAID HE ON VACATION AND REQUESTED INFO ON WHAT TO SEE AND DO IN MADRID AREA. ALSO ASKED IF POLITICAL SITUATION IN PORTUGAL SUCH THAT TRAVEL THERE WOULD BE NO PROBLEM. [KAL-BING] WAS ON WAY TO MEETING AND ASKED THAT HE CALL BACK LATER. HE DID, AND SAID HE TRAVELING TO LISBON THAT NIGHT AND WOULD RETURN MADRID LATER IN WEEK. HE SAID HE DID NOT HAVE ADDRESS IN MADRID AT MOMENT AND WOULD CALL [KALBING] AGAIN UPON RETURN TO MADRID.

2. WE SOMEWHAT SUSPICIOUS THIS CALL SINCE [KALBING] DOES NOT KNOW CHRIS PHILLIPS, ALTHOUGH IT PUSSIBLE HIS FATHER GAVE HIM [KALBING'S] NAME AS SOMEONE TO HELP HIM WITH TOURIST QUESTIONS. ALSU DOUBT THAT PHILLIPS WOULD HAVE CALLED BACK IF HE ONLY PROBING FOR LOCATION OF CIA PERSONNEL, SINCE FIRST CALL WOULD HAVE CONFIRMED WHAT HE WANTED KNOW. CHECK WITH MARINE

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PER
TOTAL COPIES
HJN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
SECRET
DVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
STAFF
CTION UNIT
BY AT Z
1 4
RF. FILE. VR
2 5
ACTION
INFO
3 6
T 631054
EIA355
PAGE 02-02
IN 805199
TOR:261252Z JAN 76
15-2
[MADR] 29824

GUARD REVEALED THAT SOMEONE HAD CALLED EMBASSY MORNING 25 JAN
ASKING FOR [KALBING'S] HOME PHONE. MARINE GUARD FURNISHED THE
NUMBER, ALTHOUGH RECENT EMBASSY INSTRUCTION IS NOT TO GIVE OUT
SUCH NUMBERS BUT ASK CALLER FOR HIS NUMBER AND SAY PERSON WILL
GET IN TOUCH WITH HIM.

3. CAN HQS CONFIRM THAT CHRIS PHILLIPS TRAVELING IN
   IBERIA AND THAT DAVE PHILLIPS GAVE HIM NAMES OF PEOPLE
   TO CALL ON THERE?

4. [LISBON] PHILLIPS MAY ALSO CALL ON PERSONS YOUR
   STATION WHO KNOWN TO DAVE PHILLIPS.

5. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET

SECRET
3/01


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)