# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

(TYPED O/DDF)

ORIG: L.B. KIRKPATRICK

UNIT: I.G.

EXT : 8856

DATE: 2 MAY 1961

TO : SEE ATTACHED LIST

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: IG

INFO: DCI, D/OCI, DOP, COP, A2DP/A, EE 4, FC 5, WL, AF 4, WE 4, WH 4, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

DEFERRED

MAY 3 012

ROUTINE

PRIORITY

OPERATIONAL
IMMEDIATE

OUT52128
OUT 57125

CITE DIR: 57347-
31987

TO SEE ATTACHED LIST INFO

BOOK MESSAGE

FROM ASCHAM

1. AS RESULT OF DEFEAT OF THE CUBAN OPERATION CONSIDERABLE COMMENT CONCERNING KUBARK NOW BEING MADE IN PRESS AND IN CONGRESS. MANY PROPOSALS ARE BEING AND WILL BE RAISED CONCERNING KUBARK AND OTHER ACTIVITIES IN THIS AREA OF ODYOKE. ACTUALLY MUCH MIS- INFORMATION GENERALLY REPORTED AND WHILE SOME PROPOSALS ARE FROM RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS, THERE ARE MANY DISTORTIONS OF ACTUAL SITUATION. DETALS OF CUBAN OPERATION ARE SUFFICIENTLY COVERED IN DEPCIRTEL 1637 AND SUGGEST YOU OBTAIN THIS FOR YOUR INFO. IT IS MY VII V. THAT KUBARK ACQUITTED ITSELF WELL IN MOST RESPECTS, ALTHOUGH I PLA. FULL REVIEW OF OPERATION AFTER REASONABLE PERIOD HAS ELAPSED IN THE MEANTIME PRESIDENT HAS DIRECTED GENERAL MAXWELL TAYLOR 10 TA CLOSE LOOK AT ALL PRACTICES AND PROGRAMS IN AREA OF MILITARY AND PARAMILITARY, GUERRILLA AND ANTI-GUERRILLA ACTIVITIES WHICH FALL SHORT OF OUTRIGHT WAR. HE WILL GIVE SPECIAL ATTENTION TO LESSONS

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE TWO

FROM RECENT EVENTS IN CUBA. IN THIS EFFORT HE WILL BE ASSISTED BY ATTORNEY GENERAL, CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS, AND MYSELF. HIS REPORT WILL BE SUBMITTED TO THE PRESIDENT BY MAY 15.

2. WHILE IN NO WAY WISHING TO LESSEN THE SERIOUSNESS OF DEFEAT IN CUBA BOTH FOR KUBARK AND PBPRIME, I WISH TO ASSURE EVERYBODY THAT OUR PRIMARY EFFORT SHOULD BE TO LEARN FROM EXPERIENCE, GOOD OR BAD. FURTHER, UNLESS INSTRUCTED BY COMPETENT AUTHORITY TO THE CONTRARY, EVERYBODY SHOULD CONTINUE WITH HIS PRESENT ACTIVITIES AND PROJECTS.

FOR YOUR INFO, WE HAVE FULLY BRIEFED APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS ON THE CUBAN OPERATION AND IN FACT HAVE MORE THAN EVER BEFORE DURING THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS KEPT THE ARMED SERVICES AND APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES ADVISED ON DAILY BASIS OF VITAL INTELLIGENCE, PERTINENT OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND PROBLEMS. WE WILL ENDEAVOR TO ADVISE YOU PROMPTLY OF PERTINENT DEVELOPMENTS IN WASHINGTON


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING

PAGE THREE

TO

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

INFO

OUT 52128
CITE DIR

THAT AFFECT KUBARK, BUT STRESS THAT YOU RECOGNIZE THAT REPORTS ARE OFTEN MISLEADING.
IN PUBLIC MEDIA

END OF MESSAGE

ALLEN W. PULLES
RELEASING OFFICER

DDCI (in draft)
COPS (in draft)
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

RICHARD M. BISSEL
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

DIRECTOR

INFO

ALGIERS VIENNA OKINAWA

BRAZZAVILLE FRANKFURT SAIPAN

ADDIS ABABA ATHENS SINGAPORE

ACCRA BERN TAIPEI

CONAKRY NICOSIA BANGKOK

ABIDJAN MELBOURNE SAIGON

NAIROBI RANGOON VIENTIANE

MONROVIA PHNOM PENH KABUL

TRIPOLI HONOLULU COLOMBO

RABAT HONG KONG NEW DELHI

LAGOS DJAKARTA TEHRAN

LEOPOLDVILLE TOKYO BAGHDAD

MOGADISCIO SEOUL

KHARTOUM KUALA LUMPUR AMMAN

TUNIS WELLINGTON BEIRUT

PRETORIA MANILA FATMANDU

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

KARACHI
MADRID
PANAMA CITY
JIDDA
STOCI FOLM
ASGUACION
ANKARA
BUENOS AIRES
LIMA
CAIED
LA PAZ
AJA GILY
SAN SALVADOR
BRUSSELS
SIO DE JANEIRO
ACCION
MON VIDEO
OTTAWA
SANTIAGO
!!
COPENHAGEN
5.GOTA
A
CALACAS
LONDON
SAN JOSE
SAN SALVA
HELSINKI
CIUDAD TRUJILLO
VIDEO
PARIS
Coro
CAS
PA كله )LCPIPIT(
:
GUATEMALA CITY
REYKJAVIK
ATAL PACE
ROME
IFOUCICALPA
:
LUXEMBOURG :)
CITY
THE RAGUE
OSLO
LISBON
REPRODUCTION E
SEC...


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)