# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

ALN-72-77
11 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miami Field Office

FROM : Chief, Domestic Collection Division,
Operations Services Group, Alien Branch

SUBJECT : Case 57845

1. Please show the attached photographs of an unidentified man to Subject. A photograph of this man was published in the Warren Commission report on the assassination of President Kennedy. Copies have also been widely distributed in news media by journalists critical of the Warren Commission investigation. The unidentified man visited the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City during October 1963. As of October 1963, he was described as approximately 35, athletic build, about 6 feet tall, blond receding hairline with balding top, and wore khakis and sport shirt.

2. We would appreciate any information Subject is able to provide on this man.

3. Should you obtain any OIR reports, please use referent CPLA-006877.

![Signature of JACKSON R. HORTON]

Attachments:
As stated

![initials FJNiemiec/ltg]

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 006875

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

Source - (Ramiro Perez Rodriguez) 05

JC 2019

UPW


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL 181608Z MAR 77 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13919

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

WNINTEL/WOMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MIAMI OIR-06870-77

SUBJECT: UNIDENTIFIED KGB OFFICER

REF: DCD CASE 57845
CPLA-006877

1. ON 17 MARCH 1977, A FORMER MEMBER OF THE CUBAN GENERAL
   DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE (DGI) WAS REQUESTED TO IDENTIFY AND
   PROVIDE INFORMATION ON AN UNIDENTIFIED MAN. THE FORMER DGI MEMBER
   IDENTIFIED THE MAN AS YURI (LNU), A KGB OFFICER, WHOM HE MET IN
   MOSCOW IN 1964 WHILE ATTENDING AN INTELLIGENCE COURSE IN THAT
   CITY, HE SAID THAI YURI, A FLUENT ENGLISH AND SPANISH SPEAKER
   WAS ACTING AS A TROUBLESHOOTER FOR THE CUBAN GROUP, ABOUT 15,
   ATTENDING THE COURSE.

2. THE FORMER DGI MEMBER SAID THAT THE CUBAN GROUP, ALONG WITH
   THE BULGARIANS, WERE QUARTERED IN THE SAME BUILDING IN MOSCOW AND
   THAT YURI LIVED WITH THEM. ANYTIME THAT THE CUBANS HAD A PROBLEM
   YURI WOULD SOLVE IT FOR THEM. HE ALSO SAID THAT YURI WAS A GOOD
   FRIEND OF JUAN (PSEUDO), A KGB OFFICER WHO TAUGHT THE CUBANS ABOUT
   THE AGENCY AND THE WEST GERMAN INTELLIGENCE APPARATUS. JUAN TOLD
   THE FORMER DGI MEMBER ONE DAY THAT HE HAD SERVED IN MEXICO FOR
   ABOUT 20 YEARS AND IN THE US CLANDESTINELY FOR ABOUT 10 YEARS. AT
   THE TIME JUAN WAS ABOUT 55 YEARS OLD. YURI DID NOT ATTEND CLASSES
   WITH THE CUBAN GROUP. HE WAS ONLY ENTRUSTED WITH THEIR WELFARE.

E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)