14-00000
104-10213-10314
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

2 August 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel
Director of Security

FROM : S.D. Breckinridge

SUBJECT : HSCA Request of 20 July 1978 -
OLC-78-2728

1. Attached is correspondence from the DDO focal point on the IISCA investigation, responding to Question 12 of reference. It states that there are and have been no agreements (at least not as described in the IISCA request) between CIA and the FBI, or other government agencies, that pertain to the Agency's responsibilities to report on U.S. citizens abroad who contact Communist embassies or officials. It also states that current legislation forbids such reporting.

2. Attached are copies of papers collected by O/IG during the Rockefeller Commission's inquiry; I recall that there was a 1966 agreement, which is not in these papers. In any event they do not seem to contain a specific provision such as is envisioned in the report. It is possible that interpretations of NSCID and DCID provisions resulted in routine reporting of such con- tacts, although there were no agreements, per se, for such action. Since the promulgation of Executive Orders 11905 and 12036 there have been limitations on reporting on U.S. persons, which may affect past practice. llowever, this office is not in a position to provide an Agency position on this issue.

3. It is requested that you coordinate with the DDO in preparing an answer to an Agency response to the HSCA question.

S.D. Breckinridge

Distribution:
1 - General Counsel
1 - D/Security
1 - OLC/Subj.
1 - OLC/Chron
1 - Hr. Gregg w/O/ATT
1 - Mr. Shepanek

This document may be downgraded to AIUO when detached from attachment


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSI ITION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

## OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | Mr. Breckinridge |      |          |
| 2   | :                |      |          |
| 3   |                  |      |          |
| 4   |                  |      |          |
| 5   |                  |      |          |
| 6   |                  |      |          |

| 1 ACTION    | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

Expansion of DCD-FBI Relationship Book Dispatch 9335 of 18 Feb 1975

Two sanitized copies ready for Mr. Knoche.


FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. | DATE    |
| --------------------------------- | ------- |
| Walter F. Little                  | 3/18/75 |
| UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET  |         |

FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions (40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSI ITION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECIET

## OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   |                  |      |          |
| 2   |                  |      |          |
| 3   |                  |      |          |
| 4   |                  |      |          |
| 5   |                  |      |          |
| 6   |                  |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROYAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:
2 copies each of the attached
pert to Mr. Krocke vir IG
3/18/75


FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS ANO PHONE NO. | DATE |
| --------------------------------- | ---- |

| UNCLASSIFIED                   | CONFIDENTIAL | SECRET |
| ------------------------------ | ------------ | ------ |
| 1-47 237 Use previous editions | (40)         |        |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

SIGNAL CENTER USE

TEL U 0 0 0 0

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

TELEPOUCH

BOOK DISPATCH 9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: G2361870

TO:FR/ATLANTA, FR/CHICAGO, FR/CLEVELAND, FR/BOSTON, FR/SAN FRANCISCO
FR/LOS ANGELES, FR/NEW YORK, FR/WASHINGTON.

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO: BD 9335

22 12 52z Feb74

DATE: 18 FEBRUARY 1974

ISOLOG

TO: CHIEF OF BASE, ATLANTA; CHIEF OF BASE, BOSTON; CHIEF OF BASE, LOS
ANGELES; CHIEF OF BASE, CHICAGO; CHIEF OF BASE, CLEVELAND; CHIEF OF
BASE, SAN FRANCISCO; CHIEF OF BASE, NEW YORK; CHIEF OF BASE, WASHINGTON

FROM: CHIEF, FOREIGN RESOURCES DIVISION

SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH THE FBI

1. ATTACHED HEREWITH IS THE SUBSTANCE OF A LETTER FROM FBI HAS
   TO ITS EIGHT FIELD OFFICES IN CITIES WHERE FR BNASES ARE LOCATED.
   THIS LETTER IS AIMED AT CLARIFYING A NUMBER OF BASIC FACTS REGARDING
   THE MISSION OF DDO IN GENERAL AND FR DIVISION ACTIVITIES IN THE USA
   IN PARTICULAR, AND IT SPELLS OUT IN SOME DETAIL OUR AGREED INTERPRE-
   TATION OF SOME OF THE HISTORICALLY MORE TROUBLESOME ASPECTS OF THE

1966 AGREEMENT

DATE: 15 FEB 74
ORIG:
UNIT: FR/COPS
EXT: 5885

C/FR/91
C/FR/B2
C/FR/83

FR/CO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

TEL:

TELEPOUCH

DISPATCH NUMBER
6D 9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

2. UE. WERE ESPECIALLY GRATIFIED WITH THE OPENING PARAGRAPHS OF THE LETTER WHICH EMPHASIZE THE FACT THAT FR IS CARRYING OUT A U.S. GOVERNMENT REQUIREMENT IN ITS RECRUITMENT OF FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SOURCES, AND THAT THIS ACTIVITY IS BEING CONDUCTED IN THE USA WITH FULL BUREAU CONCURRENCE. ANOTHER BASIC POINT WHICH THE LETTER MAKES IS THAT THE PURPOSE OF THE GUIEDELINES (1966 AGREEMENT) IS TO PROTECT THE BEST INTERESTS OF THE U-S.EGOVERNMENT, NOT ENABLE THE BUREAU TO MONITOR OUR OPERATIONS.

3. THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE DISCUSSION INVOLVED IN DRAFTING THIS LETTER, BUT NO REAL STICKY DIFFERENCES AROSE. WE BELIEVE IT MIGHT BE USEFUL TO GIVE ADDRESSEES SOME OF THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THESE DISCUSSIONS AS BACKGROUND FOR ANY TALKS YOU MAY HAVE ON THESE SUBJECTS WITH YOUR FIELD OFFICE CONTACTS. THESE ARE SET OUT BELOW:

A. PAGE 2, LAST PARAGRAPH: ON THE QUESTION OF WHAT FOREIGN -OFFICIALS ARE OF "PRESUMED INTEREST" TO THE BUREAU: WE AGREED THAT THIS CATEGORY CHANGED WITH WORLD DEVELOPMENTS AND THAT FR WOULD SIMPLY USE A COMMON SENSE JUDGMENT TO MAKE ITS CASE BY CASE DETERMINATION. UE AGREED THAT TRYING TO BROADEN OR LIMIT THE CATEGORY EY

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SIGNAL CENTER USE C

TEL 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

TELEPOUCH

BD-9335

PAGE 3 OF PAGES

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

FURTHER DEFINITION WAS NOT PRACTICAL.

B. PAGE 3, TOP PARAGRAPH: PLEASE NOTE THAT THE CRITERION
OF OVERLAP AND/OR CONFLICT IS USED THERE THE SAME AS IN THE 'LL AGR
MENT PARAGRAPH TUO CONCERNING BUREAU CONCURRENCE FOR RECRUITMENT
APPROACHES.

C. PAGE 3, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: ALTHOUGH WE ARE REQUIRED ON
TO KEEP FBI APPRISED OF INFORMATION RELATING TO ITS COUNTERINTELLIG
AND INTERNAL SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES, WE CONCURRED IN THIS REQUES
FOR MORE DETAILED AND TIMELY REPORTING ON CERTAIN CASES SINCE WE
CONSIDERED THE DETAIL ASKED FOR TO BE OF DEMONSTRABLE CI VALUE AND
TIME LIMITS TO BE REASONABLE. THE BUREAU WAS COMPLETELY AMENABLE 1
LIMITING SUCH REQUIREMENTS TO CASES WHEREIN THEIR STATUTORY RESPO:
SIBILITIES WERE CLEARLY INVOLVED, AND WE WERE PARTICULARLY PLEASED
THE ADDITIONAL AGREEMENT ALLOWING THE FIELD OFFICES AND THE FR BASI
TO WORK OUT THE LOCAL HANDLING OF ALL OTHER CASES, INCLUDING 23850
SPECIFICALLY THE "PRIOR NOTICE" REQUIREMENT OF PARAGRAPH THREE OF
"66 AGREEMENT. ENOTE THAT THIS ENTIRE PORTION OF THE LETTER INVOL
TARGETS WHICH ARE HISTORICALLY AS WELL AS PRACTICALLY, IN THE BURE

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SIGNAL CENTER Usd

TEL 0 0 0 0

TELEPOUCH

BD-9335

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

"COUNTERINTELLIGENCE ETERRITORY".) IT SHOULD ALSO BE NOTED THAT THE BUREAU HAS ALREADY AGREED TO PROVIDE US WITH CERTAIN TYPES OF OPERATIONAL INFORMATION IN EXCESS OF ANY EXISTING AGREEMENT, AND WE HAVE RECEIVED INITIALLY FAVORABLE REACTION TO PROPOSALS FOR ADDITIONAL ITEMS IN THE FUTURE. UE DO NOT BELIEVE THIS REPORTING AGREEMENT WILL CAUSE YOU ANY SERIOUS PROBLEMS, BUT IF IT SHOULD BE BROADENED OR INTERPRETED IN A WAY THAT YOU CONSIDER UNREASONABLE OR BURDENSOME, PLEASE ADVISE AND WE WILL TRY TO HAVE THE CRITERIA DEFINED MORE LEGECO CLEKRUBROSELY.

D. PAGE 4, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: WE HAD CONSIDERABLE DISCUSSION ON THIS SUBJECT. THE CBUREAU FELT THAT IN SOME INSTANCES WE WERE "STRETCHING" THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS INTO THE FIRST STAGES OF RECRUITMENT, AND IN SOME OTHERS UE WERE MOVING INTO RECRUITMENT WITHOUT FORMALLY SEEKING BUREAU CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION. GOOD FAITH BEING PRESUMED, IT BECAME APPARENT THAT OUR PROBLEM WAS BOTH SEMANTIC FAND ONE OF DEFINITION. THE BUREAU INSISTS, AND WE RECOGNIZE, THAT CONCURRENCE IN OUR PROCEEDING WITH ASSESSMENT CANNOT BE INTERPRETECD AS CONCURRENCE TO MOVE BEYOND ASSESSMENT. THEY EXPLAIN THAT THEY

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SIGNAL CENTER USC ONLY

TEL 0 0 0 0 0

TELEPOUCH

BD-9335

5

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

OFTEN CONCUR IN OUR ASSESSMENT OF TARGETS IN WHOM THEY HAVE A VE
ACTIVE "RECRUITMENT INTEREST" WITH BUREAU SOURCES IN TOUCH, ETC.
HENCE, BEFORE THE AGENCY MOVES INTO THE ACTUAL RECRUITMENT OPERA
THE BUREAU NEEDS SPECIFIC NOTICE IN ORDER TO ASSESS ITS OUN COUN
INTELLIGENCE OR INTERNAL SECURITY EQUITIES AND MAKE A DECISION.

THE DEFINITIONS OF "ASSESSMENT" AND "RECRUITMENT" IN THE LE
SHOULD BE CONSIDERED TOGETHER: THE ONLY POSSIBLE AREA OF CONFUSI
WOULD SEEM TO BE IN THE "PROCESS" OF RECRUITMENT. A SIMPLIOFIED
COMMON SENSE BREAKDOWN WOULD BE THAT ASSESSMENT IS THE OBTAINING
AND ANALYZING OF INFORMATION CONCERNING A TARGET INDIVIDUAL TO E
US TO DETERMINE WHETHER OR NOT IT IS DESIRABLE AND/OR FEASIBLE T
MOUNT A RECRUITMENT APPROACH: IF OUR ASSESSMENT IS AFFIRMATIVE,
THEN MOVE INTO THE RECRUITMENT PHASE PRIOR TO WHICH NOVE UE MU
SEEK BUREAU CONCURRENCE AND COORDINATION.

UE INTERPRET MANIPULATION OF A TARGET VIA SOCIAL CONTACTS,
MANY CASES BY OVERT, LEGAL, OINONCOMPROMISING BUSINESS ARRANGEME
TO BE PART OF THE ASSESSMENT PROCESS: THAT IS AN ATTEMPT TO OBT
::DINFORMATION REGARDING HIS VULNERABILITY, STRENGTH, IDEOLOGY,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

TEL

SECRET
TELEPOUCH

BD-9335

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:

ASPIRATIONS, ETC., ALL OF WHICH ARE PERTINENT TO OUR DECISION TO OR NOT GO" FOR A RECRUITMENT APPROACH. ON THE OTHER HAND, WE INTERPRET A COMMERCIAL ARRANGEMENT WHICH IS IN ANY WAY COVERT OR QUASI LEGAL OR IS A PLANNED STEPPING STONE TO THE PLANNED INTRODUCTION U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST, TO BE PART OF THE RECRUITMENT PROCESS TO REQUIRE PRIOR BUREAU CONCURRENCE.

E. PAGE 4, BOTTOM PARAGRAPH: BASES WILL NOTE THAT WE AGREED TO CONSIDER AGENTS RECRUITED IN THE U.S. WHO REMAIN HERE. SAME AS AGENTS RECRUITED ABROAD WHO COME HERE FOR TOURS OR VISITS ALTHOUGH ONLY THE LATTER ARE SPECIFIED IN THE AGREEMENT, WE FELT IMPLICITLY IT INCLUDED THE FORMER. WE FEEL THAT OUR EQUITIES ARE ADEQUATELY PROTECTED BY THE VERY SPECIFIC TERMINOLOGY OF PARAGRAPH

FIVE AND SIX OF THE 6966 AGREEMENT. NOTE ALSO THAT ALTHOUGH THE PROVISIONS OF PARAGRAPHS FOUR, FIVE AND SIX OF THE 01966 AGREEMENT ARE ALL-ENCOMPASSING, WE ARE IN PRACTICE CONCERNED ONLY WITH THOSE AGENTS, OPERATIONS AND SOURCES WHO HAVE REAL OR POTENTIAL CONTACT OR CAPABILITY IN THE FIELDS OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND/OR INTERNAL SECURITY; THAT IS, WHO ARE OF KNOWN OR PRESUMED INTEREST TO THE

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

TEL α 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

TELEPOUCH

0 mder 0 mdess

0 Returnto

0 bines

BD-9335

PAGE 7 OF 97

E 2 IMPDET CL BY:

BUREAU. IT IS INCUMBENT UPON US. HOWEVER, TO BE METICULOUS IN (
DETERMINATION OF "PRESUMED" INTEREST AND TO LEAN TOWARDS THAT PRESUMPTION WHEREVER THERE IS ANY DOUBT

4. FILE: 100-002-090.

ATTACHMENT - FBI LETTER, AS STATED ABOVE - H/U

E2 IMPDET-H

DIST:

1- FR/REG, W/ATT

1- FR/COPS W/ATT

1- 100-002-090

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)