1400000
104-10061-10181

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

10-4H (HSCA)

24 MAR 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

REFERENCE:

ODO/ISS/IF/EIS

C. L. Latta
Plans and Review Group
Central Cover Staff

House Select Committee on Assassinations (HSCA) Request

Letter for OLC fr Chief Counsel/Director of HSCA, dtd 8 Mar 78

1. In response to the request in Reference, CCS files contain information on five of the 19 individuals listed, as follows:

a. Mrs. G. Stanley Brown - Four documents contain references to Verna Deane Stebbens Brown, born 12 August 1928 in Waynoka, Oklahoma, wife of George Stanley Brown, born 18 May 1926 in Fargo, Oklahoma, an Agency employee from 1952 to 1962.

b. David E. Murphy - Approximately 100 documents concerning primarily the establishment, maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his Agency career as a Staff Employee from April 1948 to July 1975.

c. Grayson (Grayston) Lynch - Approximately 60 documents concerning the establishment, maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his Agency career from February 1961 to September 1971. Upon retirement in 1971, Subject gave Tampa, Florida, as his forwarding address.

d. Robert Moore - Approximately 50 documents concerning Robert Butler Moore, born 21 June 1913 in Hattisburg, Mississippi, an Agency Staff Employee from June 1950 to December 1973. The documents concern primarily the establishment, maintenance and use of cover for Subject during his Agency career. Among other assignments. Subject served in Miami, Florida, from 1961 to 19. Upon retirement in 1970, Subject gave asi

> WARNING NOTICE
> SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
> AND METHODS INVOLVED

# SECRET

12 AMPDET
CL BY 026089

#5679


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

his forwarding the following: 3511 Turner Lane,
Chevy Chase, Maryl. In connection with the ISCA'S
desire to interview Subject if he is identical to the
subject of Reference request CCS files indicate that
Subject retired in covert (DAC) status. The HSCA
should be advised that Subject's Agency affiliation
remains classified information requiring protection.
CCS files also contain approximately 25 documents on a
Robert T. Moore, Jr., born 19 May 1957 in Woodland,
California, who was an Agency Staff Employee from
September 1962 το Caly 1972.

e. Bill Logay Approximately 25 documents con-
cerning Willian Join Logay, born 27 May 1942 in Chicago,
Illinois, an Agency employee from October 1967 to
January 1972. The documents concern primarily the
establishment, maintenance and use of cover for Subject
during his Agency career. Upon resignation in 1972,
Subject left no forwarding address.

2. CCS files contain no information on the remaining
   individuals listed in Reference request.

/s/ M. L. Latta
M. L. Latta

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - SA/DO/O
1 - 10-4H (HSCA)
1 - RC-5128 (Brown)
1 - RC-10495 (Murphy)
1 - RC-16402 (Lynch)
1 - RC-4271 (Moore)
1 - RC-15719 (Legay)
1 - CCS/PRG chrono via board
1 - FMLL¡chrone

# SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)