# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
NO FORSIGN DISSEN

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. CS CI 316/00643-64

SUBJECT Guillermo ARASTAGUIA

DATE DISTR. 11 August 1964

NO. PAGES 2

DATE OF
INFO.
1964

REFERENCES CSCI-3/779,803
CS-311/00115-64

PLACE Washington, D. C.

DATE ACQ. August 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

SOURCE A former Cuban IS officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comments

The following report is one of a series containing personality information provided by the source and includes supplemental information from the records of this Agency.

It is requested that the addressees take no action on any of the individuals mentioned in the personality reports without first checking with this Agency.

1. Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, pseudonym "Rene," is the chief of the Department of Technical Operational Support (MI) in the Direccion General de Inteligencia (General Directorate of Intelligence - DGI). He was formerly the secretary of Ramiro VALDES in the Departamento de Seguridad del Estado (Department of State Security - DSE), but ARASTAGUIA was a follower of Anibal ESCALANTE and because of a problem concerning ESCALANTE and because ARASTAGUIA was believed to be a homosexual, VALDES transferred him to the DGI. ARASTAGUIA went to the Youth Festival in Helsinki as a representative of the DGI and has traveled to Moscow three times.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

2. ARASTAGUIA was born in 1934, is about five feet seven inches in height, has blond hair and green eyes. He is fat, has a chin that juts out, lips that are somewhat sunken, and has a rather high pitched voice and seems effeminate. 1,2,3

Headquarters Comments

1. A report dated 6 October 1960, from an [official Ecuadorean] source, provided a list of Cuban Communists. One Guillermo ARRASTIA, aka "Rene," possibly identical with Guillermo ARASTAGUIA, was included and described as a first lieutenant,

| STATE | DIA                                         | ARMY    | NAVY | AIR | NSA | JCS | OCR | FBI 2 |
| ----- | ------------------------------------------- | ------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ----- |
|       | REP CINCLANT                                | CINCSO= | IRNS |     |     |     |     |       |
|       | (Note: Field distribution indicated by "*") |         |      |     |     |     |     |       |





| /SA/FOR FE/5/F                 | 1   | CI/LIA | IF  | CANADA | LX-1631            |
| ------------------------------ | --- | ------ | --- | ------ | ------------------ |
| W/SA/NOF C/MADR                | 2   | CI/RSA | IE  | GRITIS | NO PROJECT (AMMUG/ |
| /SA/                           |     |        |     |        | CSCI-323/00643-64  |
| /SA/OT                         | 1   | RID/AX | 1   |        |                    |
| SA 7 (1), WE 1 (2), CIA, RID 1 |     |        |     |        |                    |

LIAISON *


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

executive, in G-2. ARRASTIA was reported to have the confidence of Raul CASTRO and Ramiro VALDES; and he was VALDES' righthand man in G-2.

2.  An official roster listing the military staff personnel comprising the Intelligence Department, G-2, of the Cuban Ministry of the Armed Forces (MINFAR) was received by a representative of this Agency from an untested source in a report dated 1 March 1961. Included on this list was one First Lieutenant Guillermo ARRASTIA Fundora, possibly identical with Guillermo ARRASTAGUIA.

3.  In a report dated 28 October 1962, a list of identified and suspected Cuban intelligence officers was included, the list was received from an official liaison service. [^24] One First Lieutenant Guillermo ARRATIA (or ARRASTIA) Fundora was included on the list and described as an identified intelligence officer on the G-2 Headquarters staff.

SECRET
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

[^24]:


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)