2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

6 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:
Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point for JFK Board

FROM:
J. Barry Harrelson
DCI/CSI/HRG, JFK Project Officer

SUBJECT:
ARRB Request for Additional Information
and Records No. CIA-7

REFERENCE:
ARRB Memo dtd 8 Nov 95, same subj,
sub-para (2), The Mexico City Station
(attached)

1. In his review of the history of the Mexico City
   Station, Jeremy Gunn, ARRB Staff, cited the five footnotes
   annotated below as possible assassination-related records
   and requested copies of the source documents. For your
   assistance in identifying the documents, following the
   footnote citation is the text (*in italics*) to which it
   refers.

Footnote 39. HMMA-17494, 4 Aug 61, sub: Data
on Case Officer work and Operational Projects at the
Mexico City Station, WH/HO.

pg 38/39, Vol I. *"The Cuban task force and
related activities caused an increase in the Mexico
City Station to 76 Americans (40 were located inside
the Embassy using official cover, and 36 were outside
under nonofficial cover.) Indigenous agents numbered
over 200."*

Footnote 55. Ibid. (Ft. 54. ISTHMUS No. 62,
6 Dec 63, WH/HO.)

pg 44, Vol I. *"Later in the year Diaz became
the PRI candidate (tantamount to election) which
assured LIENVOY of an extended six years under
virtually the same management."* (54)

*"In 1963 the routine reporting
of an operational lead by LIENVOY developed into a long
investigation. A man with a US accent, speaking broken
Russian, telephoned both the Soviet and Cuban
Embasssies on 26 September and 6 October 1963. He
identified himself as Lee Oswald and Harvey Oswald.*"

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

This information was cabled to Headquarters for traces and identifying data. After the assassination of President Kennedy on 22 November 1963 in Dallas, Texas, the Mexico City Station spent several months investigating leads in connection with Oswald's visit to Mexico. (55)"

Footnote 61. I&R Report, Dec 64, 185215 TS.

pg 47/48, Vol I. “A team from the Inspection and Review (I&R) Staff at Headquarters conducted a thorough review of the Mexico City Station administrative and operational program in July 1964. They wrote: The Mexico City Station approaches the classic type station in opportunities and in operations.' It had high-level liaison operations, unilateral operations, and joint operations with the host government, as well as Soviet, Satellite, Cuban, and indigenous Communist Party operations. There was local collaborative liaison with other US agencies (the State Department, the FBI, the Immigration and Naturalization Service (I&NS), and the military attaches). To accomplish this wide range of tasks, the station was organized into Soviet, Cuban, Satellite, Covert Action, Communist Party, and Operational Support Branches. The last branch was an operational catch-all responsible for direction of all technical, surveillance, and liaison operations. In reality, operational support operations were an extension of the chief of station's personal clandestine capabilities, particularly those projects involving Mexican officials. (61)"

Footnote No. 139. ISTHMUS NO. 29, 8 Mar 61, WH/HO.

pg 229, Vol II. “During February 1961, the first transmitter was installed in the office of the Cuban Ambassador to Mexico. (139)"

"*Between 1961 and 1968, at least a dozen audio installations were made in Cuban installations and residences, but all of them eventually failed. LI-ROMANCE and LISAMPAN are two projects which provided for short-term multiple audio installations."

Footnote No. 190. Project LILINK, File Nos. 201-226902 and 50-6-99/1, Job No. 68-494/28, Space 60793.

pg 353 Vol II. "LILINK"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

SECRET

2. Mr. Gunn will be at IP the week of 24 February to
   review additional material related to CIA-7. Please provide
   the documents, or a status of the search, by 20 February
1997. 
![signature of J. Barry Harrelson]

J. Barry Harrelson

Att: Ref Document





SECRET
3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

CSI/HRG/MAQ (3 Feb 97) (BKH-6Feb97)
Distribution:
Orig - Adse w/att
- HRG w/o att
  1 - JBH w/o att
  1 - DO JFK Team w/att
  1 - ARRB Request File

SECRET
4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)