2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CL BY: 611637

CL REASON: Section 1.5 C

DECL ON: X1

DRV FRM: LOC 5-82

5 November 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

John Pereira @ DCI
Fred Wickham @ DO
Lee Strickland @ DA
Kathryn Dyer @ DCI
Linda Cipriani @ DCI

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer

OFFICE:

CSI/HRG

SUBJECT:

17 November JFK Board Meeting-- CIA issues (update)

REFERENCE:

1. The following CIA items are on the agenda for the 17 November ARRB meeting:

*   (S) Reconsideration of the release of Warrenton, Va. as the location of the CIA Record Center.

In addition to written evidence being prepared by DA, the Agency has been offered the opportunity to brief the Board.

*   Chairman Tunheim's proposal to advance the opening date of the Nosenko NBR (Not Believed Relevant) material from the 2017 per the JFK Act to the year 2010.

The ARRB staff disagrees with the Board on this issue and will recommend that the release date remain 2017. However, they are not confident that the Board will accept their recommendation and has requested the Agency's position on the 2010 date. If the Agency opposes the 2010 change in the date, I will need a memo from the DO explaining why. We could offer a compromise--accept the 2010 date provided the Agency has the same right in 2010 as 2017 to review and appeal the release of the records. I have ask OGC for a legal opinion. Please note that this decision affects only those documents designated "NBR" by ARRB. The documents declared to be Assassination Records (AR) will be re-reviewed and released, either sanitized or in full, during the coming year.

*   (S) Proposed release of reference to CIA employee being under "integrated State cover".

We have provided written evidence (DO note coordinated with State and copy of MOA between CIA and State). According to the ARRB staff, some Board members consider CIA use of state cover as an "open secret" and are inclined to release. We have been offered the opportunity to brief the Board.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

*   Cuban Revolutionary Council (CRC) financial records.

ARRB staff plans to recommend to the Board that monthly summaries be considered ARs and the remaining material be designated NBR. Samples of these documents have been provided to DA, DO, and DCI/IRO. If you have any comments or objections, please forward them to me by COB Wednesday.

*   Documents containing long lists of names, crypts, companies, etc. These include both Agency documents and notes of HSCA staffers. (FYI- no action required at this time)

The ARRB staff will ask the Board to delay processing of such documents and, in some cases, declare them NBR. The staff considers them marginal to the story and believes that they are not worth the time involved.

(S) 2. We need to advise the ARRB staff no later than COB 12 November (Wednesday), if we plan to brief the Board on Warrenton and/or State Cover. Written evidence is due to ARRB staff by COB 13 November (Thursday). They need at least one day to review the material and prepare their presentations for the Board.

CC: Eileen Wukitch@ DO
Becky Rant @ DA


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)