# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE NO. P02 067 DATE 23 May 1961

SYNOPSIS

Live address established at 5611 Jason Street, 10 Cheverly, Maryland, on 17 May 1951. Householder and all adult members of his family were briefed. Householder notified local Post Office (Cheverly) that SUB-JECT was residing with him and also requested local Post Office to notify (Hyattsville) Post Office. Western Union telegram forwarded on 18 May 1961 for Gladys G. DARBRUNT.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

REPORT NO. 125a

3/PV


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 162 067

23 May 1961

GENERAL

At Cheverly, Maryland:

On 17 May 1961, a live address was established for Gladys G. DANBRUNT at 6611 Jason Street, Cheverly) Maryland, through the cooperation of Dr. Edvard A. and Anne B. SALLOOM, householder at that address.

On the same date, Mrs. (SALLOOM) her daughter, (Patricia) and son, George, vero briefei to the affect that they should accept eny eables, letters, talegrens or telephone calls for Mrs. DANBRUNT. In the event any inquiries vero received concerning Hrs. DANBRUNT, they were to advise that Mrs. DANGRUNT wes residing with them but that she was not available at the ment. They were to determine who was calling and the purpose of the call. If the call was from the cable or telegraph office, Ars. (SALLCOM) of Patricia was to call back later as Mrs. DAMBRUNT and receive the message and request delivery of the written cable or telegram. In the event the inquiry was from any other source, they were to contact the Reporting Agent immediately.

The same individuals were further briefed, in general, as to why Mire. DANBRAFT vas composedly residing with them and why she was expecting some form of communication. They were informed that Mrs. YAZON vas the mother of Bustace H. DANBRUT, who was being held a prisoner by a foreign government. The mother has sent a cable to her son asking how he is, whether he needs anything, inquiring If there is anything she can do for him, and asking him to please communicate with her. She is now awaiting and expecting some form of reply from him.

On the following day, 18 May 1961, Dr. SALLOON) vas Contacted. The above inforzation had been related to him by Mrs. SALLCOM)Dat the request of the Raporting Agent Dr. (GALLOON) was requested to notify the Cheverly and the Hyattsville Post Offices that Mrs. AKGRUNT vas residing at his home and any mail received for her should be delivered to his address.

On 22 May 1961, Dr. (SALLCC) in contacted and he advised that he had personally called the Postalstress at the Chevurly) Post Oifice reprding delivery of Ms. M'S wall and had roquestei

-1-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 162 067

hor, in turn, to notify the (Hyattsville) Post Office.

Dr. (SALLOOM) is a well-known (Washington dentist). He maintained an office at (810 "H" Street, N.E.) for a number of years until he was drafted into military service. He served in the Army as a (dentist) and upon his release, as a Lieutenant Colonel, he re-opened his private practice with an office at (1035 "I" Street, N.W.). For a number of years he was on the (Staff of Georgetown University) as an instructor of dentistry in the (Georgetown Dental School. He has resided in (Cheverly), Maryland for at least the past twenty years, previously at (2616 Laurel Avenue) and currently at (5611 Jason Street). His daughter, (Patricia) is attending Maryland University. His son, (George), is attending (St. John's College High School.

Daily contact was maintained with Dr. (SALLOOM) on 22, 23 and 24 May 1961. As of the latter date, no communication had as yet been received for Mrs. DAHRRUNT.

On 18 May 1961, a Western Union Telegram was sent to Eustace DARRHUNT, Reclusorio Nacional, Nueva Gerona, Isla de Pinos, Cuba. A copy of this telegram is attached as Exhibit #1.

Attachment:
Exhibit #1 (Western Union Telegram dated 18 May 1961)

JDS:mhm

![signature]

-2-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)