# CLASSIFIED FAX
## TRANSMISSION

ARRB

202-724-0088

To:
Barry Harrelson
Date:
March 31, 1997

Fax #:
703-613-3060
Pages:
17, including this cover sheet.

From:
Michelle Combs

Subject: DS&T and DO Briefing Questions

COMMENTS:

Barry,

Attached are the final versions of the DS&T and DO briefing questions. There are no changes in the DS&T questions. Questions have been added to the DO list to reflect our conversation March 19 and 20. You, of course, already have our detailed explanations for the earlier DO questions. If you have any questions or if there are any problems, please give me a call. I should be in all day. See you tomorrow.

Michelle


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Questions for Follow-up DO Records Briefing
April 1, 1997

1. At what point did the DDP begin to keep records of destroyed records? For example, in a *Cold Warrior* footnote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of Angleton's files were destroyed, "a complete record was carefully maintained about what had been done. (George) Kalaris signed off on every file and the DCI's office was notified." (p. 143) Where are these records?

2. Could an archival search be run on specific topics for retired records at the CIA'S Record's Center? Perhaps an ARRB staffer could be present during the search to review the abstracts and to suggest other fields or topics to be searched?

3. Could a crypt search for records containing relevant crypts be run through cryptographic reference? How would queries need to be framed and stated?

4. Why is it so difficult to develop a list for all personnel (official, contract, administrative, or TDY) assigned to the post referenced in RIF 104-10065-10199 from 1959-1964?

5. We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on the Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1 and December 1, 1963. How can we frame a search query to determine if we have a comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

6. How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the Mexico City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the Sequestered Collection represents all records of the technical production that was available at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original production still exists, where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records exist of the destruction?

7. Could you describe the process by which operational funds are proposed, approved, received, and distributed (circa 1963). What funding and disbursement records exist? How are they organized? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable search of these records?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

8. We have seen DDP monthly operational reports which contain information on the allocation/distribution of operational funds. Are there other DDP records which would reflect how certain projects utilized their funding? How are these records organized? How should a search query be framed?

9. Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing companies during the 1960's. How should a query be framed to search for connections between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

10. Did the Agency have any relationship, projects, or contacts with publishing houses during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission? How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books about the assassination?

11. How would a query be framed to search for files on any office or person dealing with organized crime and Cuba? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable search on this topic?

12. Is there a comprehensive record or list detailing the identities of individuals on the *Interagency Source Register*? How are these records organized? How can a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual appears in the *Register*,

13. How could a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual was given access to classified information by DCD (then OO)? What kind of files are assembled in the process of clearing non-Agency contacts/sources for access to classified information?

14. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-13, dated November 1, 1996, contained the following questions:

A. What forms of backchannel communications were there between the Mexico City Station (including the COS), JMWAVE, or Headquarters during 1963? By "backchannel" we mean, *inter alia*, any administrative, senior staff, or restricted access communications, or any written or electronic communications other than regular cables or dispatches (of the type included in the JFK Collection).

B. Were there, in fact, any backchannel communications between the Mexico City Station (including the COS), JMWAVE, or Headquarters during the time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov 1963?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

C. To the extent that there were any backchannel communications for the time periods 27 Sept - 16 Oct 1963 and 22 Nov - 30 Nov 1963 (other than those currently contained in the JFK Collection), please make such records available for review.

Why has it been so difficult to answer these questions?

15. ARRB's Request for Additional Information and Record No. CIA-14, dated December 23, 1996, documented our request for the annual or biannual Station reports for Mexico City Station for 1963 and 1964. Why has it been so difficult to provide these reports?

16. The attached Agency document released in 1996 contains the paragraph:

11. A memorandum marked only for file, 16 March 1967, signed M.D. Stevens, says that J. Monroe SULLIVAN, #280207, was granted a covert security approval on 10 December 1962 so that he could be used in Project QKENCHANT. (Clay) Shaw has # 402897-A.

What do these numbers mean? What does the "A" at the ends of Shaw's number signify? Do the files identified by these numbers still exist? Why was Sullivan granted a covert security approval?

17. During the period 1959-1963, what was the purpose or goal of QKENCHANT?

18. Under what circumstances were non-agency employees given covert security clearances for the QKENCHANT project?

19. Did Clay Shaw receive a covert security approval for the QKENCHANT project? Why was one needed? Did Clay Shaw receive covert security clearances for any project other than QKENCHANT

20. What did Clay Shaw do within the QKENCHANT project?

21. Do records exist to account for the disposition of all files on Clay Shaw?

22. Did Howard Hunt have any involvement with the QKENCHANT project prior to 1964?

23. Did J. Monroe Sullivan have any involvement with the QKENCHANT project prior to 1964?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET
SECRET

24. The DO telephone directories list an Operational Services/Defector Staff beginning in October 1959? What was the Defector Staff? Did it have an operational component?

25. In the period 1959-1964, were DO officers, selected to serve overseas under State Department cover, legally considered to be "members of the Foreign Service, appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate?"

SECRET
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

MAR 31 '97 12:07PM

HELRABRD, PER P.L. 102-536 (JFK ACT)
NARA SU DATE 2/14/97

a relatively clean, easy-to-read specimen of what we already have.

CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
Release As Sanitized
1996

Note: only redaction is OK (what CIA calls a Diguph) from QKBLUCHANNO on page 4 here paragraph 11:
Enclosure 21 I've included a poor copy of page 4 that contains the "OK".

SUBJECT: Clay L. SHAW (201-813493).

1. Subject was born on 17 March 1913 in New Orleans, Louisiana.

2. Standard background information on Subject (parents, marital status, records of education and employment, etc.) is lacking because SHAW was a contact of the Domestic Contact Service.

3. Traces on subject have been run in RID/Main Index, the index of the Office of Security and the Central Cover Staff. The first showed only a 1951 FBI interview with SHAW about a former employee of the New Orleans International Trade Mart. The second showed that 00/Contacts Division had requested a name trace; about 1949 and that the check of FBI records then conducted was negative. Central Cover Staff had no record.

4. Some of the 00-B reports based on SHAW's reporting are on hand. They are the following. (It is noted that the source description identifies the 'source by job title.)

a. 00-B 47958, 26 March 1952, concerns a letter written to the public relations director of the International Trade Mart by one Dr. Jutta SCHALLER, a trade consultant to the Ronn Government. The letter is a follow-up of discussions held in New Orleans during December 1951. The letter said that Soviet production and export trade were being advertised and

1930-492-Y
Document Number

for FOIA Review on DEC 1977


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

RELEASED. PER P.L. 102-886 (JFK ACT)
NARA SK DATA 2/4/97.

SECRET

promoted by West German money. The publication Wer Liefert Was?, published in Leipzig, is now also being published in Hamburg, at a price much lower than competitive volumes.

b: 00-B-9381, 27 December 1948. Information acquired 18 December 1948. SHAW (identified by job title) has agreed to lease to the CBR government 1,000. feet of space for a display of merchandise in New Orleans. The lease is for one year, starting 1 April 1949.

c. 00-B-4933-49, 14 June 1949, information date late April and early May 1949. Results of a trip SHAW made in March through May 1949 in West Indies, Central America, and Northern South America.

d. 00-B-4934-49, 14 June 1949, same general subject and background as above.

e. 00-B-4935-49, 14 June 1949, as above.

f. 00-B-35477, 29 June 1951. Results of a SHAW trip in 1951 in Central and South America and the Caribbean area.

5. On 9 May 1961 General C. P. Cabell, then DDCI, addressed the Foreign Policy Association of New Orleans. It is believed that he was introduced by Clay SHAW.

6. On 3 March 1967 the Washington Star reported that Garrison had arrested SHAW and had made public charges that SHAW, FERRIE, OSWALD, and others had plotted the assassination in the apartment of FERRIE at 3300 Louisiana Parkway, New Orleans. SHAW has said that he never saw OSWALD. He denies having used the name Clay BERTRAND. Jack S. MARTIN said that FERRIE had mentioned

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SHAW to him. J.. Monroe SULLIVAN, executive director of the San Francisco World Trade Center, told the Associated Press that SHAW was in San Francisco and touring the Canter with him on the day of the assassination. SHAW, now retired, was formerly the managing director of the Intemational Trade Mart in New Orleans. He is 54 years old. Ramsey Clark, U.S. Attorney General, said that the FBI had investigated SHAW late in 1963. "On the evidence that the FBI has, there was no connection found" with the assassination.

7. Memorandum No. 84-67, 3 March 1967, from Chief, Now Orleans Office, to Director, Domestic Contact Service, re SHAW.

a. The first contact of the New Orleans office of the DCS with Clay SHAW occurred in December 1948. A nama check request was raturned "no info" on 23 March 1949. SHAW was contacted by Mr. Hunter Leake of the New Orleans office seven times in 1949, twice in 1950, five times in 1951, nine times in 1952, once in 1953, twice in 1954, twice in 1955, and twice in 1956. SHAW is the source of eight 00-B reports sub-mitted by the New Orleans office. At one tima ho had the "Y" number 145.1. The last contact took place on 25 May 1956. On 23 January 1967 Jack S. MARTIN phoned the New Orleans office, said that he was working on an important undercover deal for. Garrison and Detectiva Louis IVON, and was calling at IVON's request. He was culling to ask the head of the CIA office to telephone IVON on his unlisted number. No such call was made. The writer, Lloyd A. Ray, asks that the General Counsel be informed and that he provide advice.

8. Undated and unsigned memorandum (probably produced by CI/R & A). The following additional information was provided by the New Orleans office of DCS.

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Since 25 May 1936 Mr. [handwritten text] had seen SHAW casually, by chance, in various downtown New Orleans restaurants, and greetings were exchanged. The last such casual encounter was just before SHAW's retirement in 1965.

9. On 7 March 1967 *Pravda* published an article called "Clay Shaw of the CIA" datelined Rome, 6 March 1967, written by V. VERMAKOV. The article charged that CIA made use of the services of Clay SHAW for CIA's own interests in Italy. The *Pravda* piece notes that the DA in New Orleans is accusing SHAW of participation in the assassination conspiracy. It says SHAW spent "some years" in Rome as a World Trade Center leader. It claims that the Center was a cover for financing anti-Communist activity. CIA gave directives to SHAW. The World Trade Center was a branch of "Panimides" (sic), "which the newspapers in Switzerland openly accused of 'criminal operations'...."
   (Comments: It appears that all of the *Pravda* charges are untrue, except that there was a CIA-SHAW relationship. So far as is known, SHAW was never asked to use his relationship with the World Trade Center for clandestine purposes and, in fact, he has not been in Italy.)

10. Memorandum from [handwritten text] 8 March 1967 subject: Italian Aspects of the Clay Shaw Affairs. The *Corriere della Sera* of 5 March 1967 has an article about SHAW, the assassination, and the World Trade Center. Contains no relevant information.

11. A memorandum marked only for file, 16 March 1967, signed [handwritten text] Stevans, says that J. Walton SULLIVAN, #280207, was granted a covert security approval on 10 December 1962 so that he could be used in Project NENCHANT. SHAW has 0402097-1.

12. Memorandum from [handwritten text] 24 March 1967; Subject: "Trace Results on Persons Connected with Centro Ipadiziale Commerciale" (World Trade Center), filed [handwritten text] folder, Clay SHAW - working papers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

MAR 31 '97 12:09PM

KELAABRD PER P.L. 108-590 (JFK ACT)
MARA 562
DATE 2/14/97

Since 25 May 1956 Mr. Hunter Leake had seen SHAW casually, by chance, in various downtown New Orleans restaurants, and greetings were exchanged. The last such casual encounter was just before SHAW's retirement in 1965.

9. On 7 March 1967 Pravda published an article called "Clay Shaw of the CIA" datelined Rome, 6 March 1967, written by V. YERMAKOV. The article charged that CIA made use of the services of Clay SHAW for CIA's own interests in Italy. The Pravda piece notes that the DA in New Orleans is accusing SHAW of participation in the assassination conspiracy. It says SHAW spent "some years" in Roma as a World Trade Center leader. It claims that the Center was a cover for financing anti-Communist activity. CIA gave directives to SHAW. The World Trade Center was a branch of "Permidax" (sic), "which the newspapers in Switserland openly accused of 'criminal operations'...." (Comments It appears that all of the Pravda charges are untrue, except that there was a CIA-SHAW relationship. So far as is known, SHAW was naver asked to use his relation- ship with the World Trade Center for clandestine purposes and, in fact, he has not been in Italy.)

10. Memorandum from C/EUR/I to C/CI/R & A, 8 March 1967 subject: Italian Aspects of the Clay Shaw Affair. The Corriere della Sera of 5 March 1967 has an article about SHAW, the assassination, and the World Trade Center. Contains no relevant information.

11. A mamorandum marked only for file, 16 March 1967, signed M.D. Stevens, days that J. Monroe SULLIVAN, 1280207, was granted a covert security approval on 10 December 1962 so that he could be used in Project JENCHANT. SHAW has 1402897-A.

12. Memorandum from C/EUR/I to C/CI/R & A, 24 March 1967, Subject: "Trace Results on Persons Connected with Centro Mondiale Commerciala (World Trade Center), filed CI/R & A folder, Clay SHAW - working papers.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

HELRABBU FER P.L. 108-896 (JFK ACT)
HARA SU
DATA 2/4/97

The 5 March 1967 issue of Il Messaggero links SHAW with the World Trade Center. Others linked to the center were traced, with results reported in this memorandum. No relationship to the Garrison investigation appears here. A report on "Parmidex", a Swiss corporation with principal offices in Rome, is also in the file because the World Trade Center and Permidex are associated. Again, there is no information here which relates significantly to the case Garrison is trying to build in New Orleans.

13. The Washington Post, Outlook, 2 April 1967, "Seeking Truth in New Orleans In the Middle of the Night", George Lardner, Jr.

a. Garrison's men drove RUSSO to SHAW'S French Quarter home. RUSSO posed as a Mutual of Omaha salesman. He knocked at door; SHAW answered. RUSSO said that he was Clem BERTRAND.

b. SHAW is a 54-year old bachelor and socialite who pioneered the 33-story International Trade Mart in New Orleans. He was subpoenaed by Garrison's office on 1 March 1967. According to his friends, his questioners did not advise him of his rights. They told him they had evidence of a meeting with FERRIE and OSWALD. There was a fuss and SIJAW was arrested and booked on conspiracy to murder JPK. That night Garrison's men raided SHAW'S apartment and confiscated whips, chains, a black net cap, a cape and hood. RUSSO told reporters that he did not know Clay SHAW, but he identified the man arrested by Garrison as Clém BERTRAND.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# 13-00000

## Testimony of Abram Chayes, Legal Advisor, Dept. of State

Mr. OHAYES. NO; I think in each case it will depend so much on the situation with the particular person. If a person comes in and he is very agitated or something of that kind, it might dictate a totally different approach than a different kind of thing.

Mr. DULLES. Wouldn't it be useful though to give-I don't want to suggest what the Secretary of State should do in this, but in the light of this experi- ence, would there not be some benefit possibly in giving people in the field the result of the experience gained in this particular case?

Mr. CHAYES. Well, the general approach, and other matters related to it, are touched on in orientation courses for consular officers and so on. I think as I look on Consul Snyder's actions, that he behaved very much like a respon- sible Foreign Service officer.

That happened long before I was in the Department, so I can say that without any involvement. But it seemed to me that he did just what he should have done, despite the unfortunate aftermath. And it shows to me, at least, that the training and orientation that these people are getting is right, is serviceable, and they are able to handle these situations as they come in.

Mr, DULLES. I realise that you ought not to prescribe hard and fast rules, that there is a broad range of discretion that should be exercised here. But I just raise the question as to whether a good deal of experience hasn't been gained in this case in that very field.

Mr. CHAYER. Well, it may very well be that more attention to that particular aspect should be given in the orientation courses and so on. Those things tend to reflect what is hot at the moment you know, and if you haven't had trouble with something for a pretty long time, it tenda maybe not to get mentioned.

Representative Foxn. If Oswald had persisted that day, October 81, in de- manding the form that is a prerequisite under your definition for renunciation, would Snyder have been required to give it to him and permit him to sign it?

Mr. CHAYES. I think if it had been in ordinary office hours when the con- silate was open for business, and if Snyder was satisfied that he was competent, that Oswald was competent, he would have to give him the form, yes, sir.

Representative FORD. Does Snyder. have the authority to make a determina- tion of competency?

Mr. CHAYES. No; he doesn't have the authority to make a determination of competence, and I suppose it is possible at some point to get the issue tried in court. But I think a consular officer would probably be acting within his discretion if he saw sombody who was drunk or raving or something and just said; "Well, I am not going to give you this until I am sure that your action is your act." After all, when the consul accepts the oath, he is certifying that it is the act of the person in a meaningful sense, and so if he thought that the person was incompetent, I think be would have discretion not to give the oath. But I put that far aside becavise in the particular case bere, Mr. Snyder made it perfectly clear that he had no reason to doubt that Oswald was fully competent. And so if Oswald had been there at a time when 'the office was open, or had returned at a time when the office was open, and bad persisted in his demand, I think Snyder would have been under an obligation to give him the form.

Representative Forn. The only technical reason or basla upon which Snyder could have denied Oswald the right that day was the fact that it was on a Saturday, a non-working-hour period of the Embassy.

Mr. CHAYES. Yes; I think he had every right to try to dissuade him, or per- suade him not to act or persuade him to think it over and come back the next day. But if after all of that Oswald still had said "But I want to do it now" and if the office was open for business, then I think he would have had to do it.

Mr. DULJES. I think it might be useful if it has not been done to introduce at this point as an exhibit the form of oath of renunciation.. Here is the for- malized oath and I think it would be well to have this in our records unless it is already in our records.

Representative Forn. I agree.

Mr. COLEMAN. No; it isn't. Could we say it will be marked as Commission Exhibit No. 955 and place this sticker on that page, photostat it and then just sand it hoc

(Commission Exhibit No. 955 was marked for identification and received in evidenca)

Representative FORD. When Oswald came back on November 8, I believe, which was a regular working day.

Mr. COLEMAN. Mr. Commissioner, he did not come back on November &. He merely wrote a letter.

Mr. CHAYES. Wrote a letter. He never came back...

Representative FORD. Are all of the employees, Mr. Snyder, Mr. McVlekar, and the others who had any firsthand contact with the. Oswald case in this area, were they State Department employees?...

Mr. OHAYES. Yes, sir; these two men who, were the only ones who did see him directly, I think the secretary, their secretary also saw him, but had nothing to do with him except as a receptionist. These two men were Foreign Serv- ice officers and are now Foreign Service officers.

Representative Forn. In the strictest term.......

Mr. CHATEA. Yes, sir; members of the Foreign Service, appointed by the President with the advice and consent of the Senate.

Representative Fonn, Could you tell us in a bit more detall the process that you followed or the procedure that you carried out when you first got into the Oswald care.

You mentioned yesterday you got a call or you were directed by. I believe the Secretary of State or by somebody in higher authority to take certain steps. Will you tell us who called you, what you did in the first 8 or 4 days?

Mr. CHATTS. It was the evening of the day, perhaps aliout, 5 o'clock on the day of the assassination. It may have been somewhat earller, becaise I think I remember I went home for an hour and then came back to carry out this Assignment. Mr. Ball, once it became known that Oswald had some history as a defector GEORGE W Ball

Mr. DoLLas. Ball is the Under Secretary of State De

Mr. CHAYES. He was then the Acting Secretary, because the Secretary of State as you recall was on a plane over the Pacific, So be was the Acting Secretary, But even if he had been the Under Becretary he is my client.

Representative FORD. He still had some authority.

Mr. CHATIS. Yes; he directed me to gather together the files in the Department on Oswald, and to prepere a report to be available for him the first thing in the morning covering as best-we could within that time span the contacts that Oswald had with the Department.

We got the passport file. We got the security office file. We got the special consular services file which covered Mrs. Oswald's visa and the repatriation loan: I think those three files were the ones that we had. It may have been there was a smaller fourth file, but I think those three were the ones.

Representative Fown. What would that smaller fourth file be?

Mr. CHAYES. I can't remember. It was duplicates if it was anything. Oh, that is right, we had a visa file and an 808 file so those were the four. The 808 file, that is Special Consular Services, in the office, in the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs.

Representative Forn. You got this order on or about 5 o'clock the 22d of November?.

Mr. OHAYES, The 22d; yes, str.

Bepresentative Ford. And you issued orders to have these files brought in, or did you go and get them yourself?

Mr. CHATEB. No.

Bepresentative Ford. Or what happened? State Dept: employ

Mr. CHAYES. I issued orders to have them brought in. I called I am trying to think how we got them, [Turning to Mr. Ehrlich.] Did you go down and get them? Mr. Ehrlich and Mr. Lowenfeld, another of my people, we worked through the night on this, the three of us all together and it may be that the two of them went down to get them. I don't think we just called over the tele- phone and asked them to be brought up...

(Discussion off the record.)

Mr. CHAYES. It is my recollection that one of these two gentlemen, either


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Barry

3/14/97

My reaction is that several questions are much too broad. e.g., 5, 6, 9, 10, 12. Read to be specific.

For No. 2, we should not agree to having an ARRB staffer present.

For No. 7; they should explain the purpose of the question.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# FAX TRANSMISSION

ARRB

202-724-0088
FAX:

To: Barry Harrelson Date: March 14, 1997

Fax #: 703-613-3060 Pages: 3, including this cover sheet.

From: Michelle Combs

Subject: DO Briefing Questions

COMMENTS:

We may add additional questions but this should give you an idea of the topics. Have a good weekend.

> [Figure: A handwritten note on the fax transmission.]
> John/ What are your reactions to these questions? Has Gunn crossed the line?
> Return
> Barry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# DRAFT

Types of Questions for Follow-up DO Records Briefing
March 17, 1997

1. At what point did the DDP begin to keep records of destroyed records? For example, in a *Cold Warrior* footnote, Tom Mangold reports that as any of Angleton's files were destroyed, "a complete record was carefully maintained about what had been done. (George) Kalaris signed off on every file and the DCI's office was notified." (p. 143) Where are these records?

2. Could an archival search be run on specific topics for retired records at the CIA's, Record's Center? Perhaps an ARRB staffer could be present during the search to review the abstracts and to suggest other fields or topics to be searched?

3. Could a crypt search for records containing relevant crypts be run through cryptographic reference? How would queries need to be framed and stated?

4. Why is it so difficult to develop a list for all personnel (official, contract, administrative, or TDY) assigned to the post referenced in RIF 104-10065-10199?

5. We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on the Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1 and December 1, 1963. Ho How can we frame a search query to determine if we have a comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

6. How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the Mexico City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the fist month) and during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the Sequestered Collection represents all records of the technical production that was available at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original production still exists, where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records exist of the destruction?

7. Could you describe the process by which operational funds are proposed, approved, received, and distributed (circa 1963). What funding and disbursement records exist? How are they organized? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable search of these records?

DRAFT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

DRAFT

8. We have seen DDP monthly operational reports which contain information on the allocation/distribution of operational funds. Are there other DDP records which would reflect how certain projects utilized their funding? How are these records organized? How should a search query be framed?

9. Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing companies during the 1960's. How should a query be framed to search for connections between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

10. Did the Agency have any relationship, projects, or contacts with publishing houses during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission? How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books about the assassination?

11. How would a query be framed to search for files on any office or person dealing with organized crime and Cuba? How should a request be formulated to institute a reasonable search on this topic?

12. Is there a comprehensive record or list detailing the identities of individuals on the Interagency Source Register? How are these records organized? How can a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual appears in the Register.

13. How could a search query be framed to ascertain whether or not a particular individual was given access to classified information by DCD (then OO)? What kind of files are assembled in the process of clearing non-Agency contacts/sources for access to classified information?

DRAFT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

13-00000 MAR 18 '97 06:52PM P.2

![Assassination Records Review Board Logo]

Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW • 2nd Floor • Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 • Fax: (202) 724-0457

SECRET

MEMORANDUM

March 18, 1997

TO:

John Pereira and Barry Harrelson

FROM:

Jeremy Gunn

SUBJECT: ARRB Questions Submitted for DO Briefing

I would like to address some of the concerns that you expressed at our meeting yesterday, where we briefly discussed the Review Board's Proposed Questions for the March 17 briefing regarding DO records. We understand that you have some concerns about the scope of the topics raised. We very much appreciate your recognition of the importance that we attach to the ARRB's independence and we again wish to emphasize the fact that we fully understand your proper concern for the protection of information that is unrelated to the Kennedy assassination.

I would like to emphasize that the questions that we sent to you were not intended as in depth research queries, but rather as topical talking points for discussion. We prepared the questions, at your request, in order to give the persons conducting the briefing an understanding of the types of issues in which we were interested. They represent issues that we wish to explore in our quest for additional information and records to facilitate the completion of the ARRB's responsibilities under the JFK Act.

We appreciate your acknowledgment that the ARRB is not necessarily obligated to justify to CIA the questions it deems relevant to the assassination. Nevertheless, in order to facilitate and coordinate our efforts, we are very willing to offer the following additional explication of those questions that we understand may have been considered by the Agency to be excessively broad.

SECRET

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair • Henry F. Graff • Kermit L. Hall • William L. Joyce • Anna K. Nelson
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR: David G. Marwell


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

Question # 5:
We have been working to identify all technical and surveillance operations in and on the Cuban and Soviet consulates and embassies in Mexico City between September 1 and December 1, 1963. How can we frame a search query to determine if we have a comprehensive and complete list of all operations at that time?

Until very recently, we had seen no evidence that CIA had microphone surveillance of the Cuban compound. However, Dispatch HMMW 12454 (no IDEN number attached) found in Box 23, Folder 9 of the Sequestered Collection, makes reference to LICOOLS (concealed microphones inside the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City). Though the dispatch reports that the last LICOOL ceased functioning in 1961--before the period in question-the prior existence of this capability and the fact that the dispatch discusses the possibility of reactivation prompts the question of whether all technical and surveillance operations against the Cuban and Soviet Consulates have been identified to the ARRB. In addition, the dispatch refers to MKTRAP, a telephone hot mike operation which was re-actuated from a basehouse in November 1963. The specific hot mike telephone PBIMPULSE appears to have been in operation during 1963. Are there records from this operation? Are there any other operations that may have picked up Oswald's visit?

Question # 6:
How can a search query be framed to document all electronic take produced by the Mexico City Station in the immediate wake of the assassination (the first month) and during the period of Oswald's visit? How can we verify that what exists in the Sequestered Collection represents all records of technical production that were available at the time of the assassination? If additional records or original production still exists, where would it be stored or filed? What searches could be conducted to retrieve any additional records? If such electronic take has been destroyed, do records exist of the destruction?

This question is a follow up to question #5. If MKTRAP was in operation from September 1-December 1, 1963, where are the records or transcripts describing the take? Was the take ever retained or reviewed? Do any original tapes or transcripts still exist? Where might these records be found? Were any other technical operations in progress? The various project files for the technical operations known to exist during this period are spotty and incomplete. How can the ARRB know if it has reviewed records of all the technical operation take for the relevant time period?

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

Question # 9:
Various open sources have linked the CIA to various journalists and publishing companies during the 1960's. How could a query be framed to search for connections between the Agency and journalists or publishing companies?

The two 1967 *Ramparts* articles mention connections between the Agency and journalists worldwide. The primary focus of this question is on any connection between the Agency and any journalist who might have covered the assassination domestically. Additionally, we would be interested in any publishing company involved in publishing books about the assassination. HSCA staff notes (RIF 180-10142-10087) summarize several files dealing with contacts between the Agency, publishing houses, and authors. For example, the file identified as QKOPERA/Liaison ZRBLESS outlines a memo by Gunnar W. Beckman CA/PROP on the status of negotiations between *Praeger Publishing* and Milovan Djilas. ZRBLESS is identified as a subproject of WUBONBON. Further, the staff notes mention a project involving "*Praeger and publication*" [sic], a separate project involving "the Freedom Fund and distribution" [sic], and a third project to provide news service to the foreign press through *Continental Press*. Each of these projects appears to have been in operation in 1963-64.

Question # 10:
Did the Agency have any relationship, projects or contacts with publishing houses during the time of the assassination and in the aftermath of the Warren Commission? How would a search be formulated to determine whether or not the Agency had a relationship with any of the same publishing houses that were also publishing books about the assassination?

This question is a follow up to question #9. One record that is already in the collection (RIF 180-10142-10087) summarizes the Project File of WUPUNDIT and notes two 'one time only' operations in 1963-WURAISIN and WUTRANSIT which were responsible for publishing two books each. In addition, WUSENDER is reported to be a 'one time only' operation responsible for three books in 1964. If these books have domestic implications or are on subjects related to the assassination, they would be relevant documents.

We hope that this additional explication may help you and the DO understand our approach to the issues raised in our questions. Should any of our requests impose on you or your staff a burden that we may not have anticipated -- or which would entail work of dubious value or benefit -- please advise us so that we can work with you to modify or amend the requests accordingly.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

MAR 18 '97 06:53PM P.4

SECRET

Please also remember that, when we request accesses to these materials, we are not designating them "assassination records" and we are not, at this time, requesting that copies of documents be given to the Review Board.

We appreciate your continuing cooperation and helpfulness.

Sincerely yours,

![Signature of T. Jeremy Gunn]

T. Jeremy Gunn
General Counsel and Associate Director
for Research and Analysis





SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# DISPATCH

INFO:
COS, Mexico City

FROM:
Chief, WU Division

SUBJECT:
PBRUMEN LIFEAT/LIERODE. Confusion in Use of Cryptonyms

1.  The Station's use of certain cryptonyms identifying technical operations against PBRUMEN TPELIDE in Mexico has caused confusion in Headquarters elements responsible for sourcing and dissemination of information produced, and for supporting the entire complex of operations itself. The cryptonyms in question are (a) LIFEAT (b) LIERODE (c) MXTRAP (d) LICOOL/11 and (e) PBIMPULSE. The original meaning of these cryptonyms is being forwarded under separate cover.

2.  The purpose of this dispatch is to submit for Station comment a review of, the technical operational effort against PBRUMEN TPELIDE since its inception. The objectives are (1) to complete Headquarters records which lack considerable detail concerning the intricacies of the operation, (2) to urge a more precise use of cryptonyms in reporting, this activity which would benefit Headquarters personnel responsible for monitoring and supporting those operations and (3) to suggest a few administrative adjustments which would dispel the present confusion mentioned in this dispatch.

3.  The initial effort against the target was PBIMPULSE. It was introduced into the target using LIFEAT assets and was actuated from the LIFEAT VI basehouse. This is mentioned only to complete the record and does not pertain to the intent of this discussion. Properly speaking the initial effort begins with the activation of LIFEAT/ LIERODE in February 1959, as indicated in DOC 12358. Subsequently eight (8) LICOOL attempts were made during 1960-1961 against the same target. The LICOOLs were monitored from a mobile LP (not LIFIRE), Basehouse ABLE and Basehouse BAKER, and the latter came to be referred to as the LIERODE base. The most productive operation of this sort seems to have been LICOOL/11, activated on 9 May 1959, according to HEXI 3884, dated 15 May 1959. According to our records the last LICOOL ceased functioning during late 1961. Please confirm.

Attachment - u/s/c

Distribution
0 & 1 - COS, Mexico City w/att

| CROSS REFERENCE TO | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | DATE            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | --------------- |
|                    | HMMY 12454                 | 1 April 1964    |
|                    | CLASSIFICATION             | MOS FILE NUMBER |
|                    | SECRET                     | 50-6-32/6       |

| OFFICE.                | OFFICER                   | TYPIST | CAT: |
| WH/3/Mexico/L Sanchez |                           | rg     | 5940 |

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE       | OFFICER'S NAME |
| ------------- | ---------- | -------------- |
| WH/FI         | 2 April 64 |                |
| TSD/ASB       | 6 April 64 |                |
| TSD/Photo     | 3 April 64 |                |

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE |     |
| ------------- | ---- | --- |
| C/WHD         |      |     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## KAPOK SECRET

### IDIHW 12454

---

4. At that time a different technique was planned. The following briefly outlines the development of the operations which the Station habitually refers to as "MKTRAP":

*   5 February 1962: Request for operation received at MKCHARITY by Harvey C. MULFORD.
*   8 Feb.-Mar.1962: Design and construction of MKTRAP,
*   9 March 1962: MKTRAP delivered to LIFEAT CO for placement in target area.
*   10 March 1962: MKTRAP installed by LIFEAT assets and initial LP tests performed from LIFEAT VI basehouse with negative results.
*   14 March 1962: LP tests conducted with revised series line connections with positive results.
*   6-13 April 1962: Design and construction of LP equipment.
*   16 April 1962: Installaction of LP equipment in LIFEAT VI basehouse.

MKTRAP, although moved from room to room, remained in place within the target area, though inactive most of the time. During November 1963 METRAP was re-actuated from a second LIFEAT basehouse known as Basetiouse CHARLIE.

5. The photo surveillance of PERUMEN TPELIDE was put into effect, using basehouse BAKER (LIBRODE RAFA) at the same time that METRAP was actuated. This photo coverage, the basehouse, PBRUMEN TPELIDE and the activity for which the cryptonya was first authorized have all been identified as LIKRODE which has created considerable confusion here at Headquarters.

6. According to scanty Headquarter's records the following operations have utilized these bases against the target:

*   a. PBIMPULSE LIFEAT VI
*   b. LICOOLS Basehouses ABLE and DAKER
*   c. LIFEAT/LIERODE 1.IFEAT VI
*   d. "METRAP" LIFEAT VI, Basehouse BAKER, Busehouse CHARLIE
*   e. PHOTO Basehouse BAKER

Headquarters has the impression that the principal factors that contributed to the suspension of MATRAP activity from LIFEAT VI, were the physical deterioration of the house itself and the divorce of the basehouse keepers. The current LIFEAT Project Outline indicates that LIFEUD 14 and LIFEUD 17 ware obtaining a divorce and were terminated as of 30 September 1962. Headquarters assumes they were the occupants of LIFEAT VI, yet the project outline does not show that the base was closed, LIFEAT VI was listed on page 20 of the outline as an active unit. On the other hand, page 15 of the outline states that LIFEUD 22 and LIFEUD 23 are occupying the "LIERODE photo basehouse", but that they have never been involved in. LIFEAT work. This indicates that LIFEAT/LIEROS and the photo work against the PBRUMEN target are now being conducted from two different basehouses. The project outline also indicates that while it had been planned to have this base serve


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# CONTATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: KAPOK SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: 10MY 12454

P.8

"LIFEAT/KXTRAP", technical difficulties made this impossible, therefore these two agents were not being included under LIFEAT Project.. When MKTRAP was re-actuated in November 1963 and as stated above, the Station utilized another LiFEAT basehouse, also called basehouse CiHARLIE, situated approximately six miles from target. Please confirm the accuracy of the foregoing and supplement it by informing Headquarters the basehouses and keepers involved and the operations they are currently monitoring:

7. Headquarters requests Station's comments on the following suggestions:

a. Photographic coverage. That a separate project be prepared to include LIFEUD 22 and 23. The project should cover their salaries, basehouse rent, and equipment expenses, an arrangement similar to LITABBY and LIDOGTHOT. This activity, identified with a new cryptonym would eliminate. further confusion when discussing photographic coverage of PERUMEN TPELIDE.

b. LICOOL. Headquarters is not aware of any LICOOLS presently operative. If any are contemplated, CSI-52-6, 27 February 1958, requires special Headquarters approval prior to any action taken. If successful, a decision can be made at that time whether a new project is necessary or whether it can adequately be covered undor LIFEAT, depending on the assets being utilized in the operation.

c. LIERODE. The original intent of this cryptonym is discussed in the separate cover attachment and the activity has been assigned file number 50-6-32/6. If the operation utilizes LIFEAT assets, it is suggested that it remain under LIFEAT Project and be identified as LIFEAT/LILRODS in all correspondence. Please inform Headquarters of the assets presently used for LIFEAT/LIERODE coverage.

d. MKTRAP. KURIOT would prefer the Station. not use this cryptonym In Feporting this particular type of coverage. It is suggested that a new cryptonym, in the LI series, be utilized to reference this activity. The present cryptonyn refers to a technique which hasprogressed from the developmental into the operational stage and should more appropriately be identified with a regular Station cryptonym, If this operation is being worked by LIFEAT assets, then it might be identified with a dual cryptonym LIFEAT/LI. A separate file number, within the LIFEAT series, can be assigned to cover "YKTRAP" if the Station requests it, but It does not seem necessary since othor LIFEAT targets do not have separate file numbers either.

e. Consolidated Project. If the Station prefers, all technical operations - LIERODE, MUTRAP, LICOOL, PHOTO - directed against PBRUMEN TPELIDE can be funded and administored under one project.

OLIVER G. GALDOND


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

13-00000

MAR 18 '97 06:56PM

P.9

ATTACHMENT TO
HUMW 12454

CRYPTONYM A - Used to identify Station's unilateral telephone tape.

CRYPTONYM B - Assigned on 21 February 1959, to identify the Station's unilateral telephone tap of the PBRUVEN TPELIDE in Mexico City. (See MEXI 3382, February 21, 1959)

CRYPTONYM C - Identifies the technical nomenclature of a hot mike telephone A/S installation, Details of the system are contained in HИМА 20307.

CRYPTONYM D - Concealed microphones.

CRYPTONYM E - Hot mike telephone.

CS COPY

50-c-32/6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

JFK RECORDS

Status in System:

v09-16-96acr

Cross Reference: None

AGENCY: HSCA
RECORD NUMBER: 180-10142-10087
RECORD SERIES: CIA SEGREGATED COLLECTION
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 23-06-03
Other Agency Equity: None

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: HSCA
FROM: CIA
TO:
TITLE: THE WARREN COMMISSION AND MEXICO
DATE: 00/00/78
PAGES: 62
DOCUMENT TYPE: REPORT
SUBJECT(S): MEXICO, WC, CIA, FILES,
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
RESTRICTIONS: 3
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN PART
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/07/95
COMMENTS: Box 12

Date in: 01/26/96


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# The Warren commission and Mexico.

I Info from cable chrono, Oswaldi
Mixi file and WX-7241.

A December 21, 1963

1. DIR 90466 (420-757)

Orig: Whitten

RO by auth of Helms:

"Our present plan is to eliminate mention of [telephone taips], in order protect your continuing ops. "They pleon relying instead on Duran and how file given to the State Department. asks that [penetration agents] be requestioned for possible collaboration of Duran's story." (NO.RS)

B January 30, 1964

1. DIR 97829 (498-204) - NOTE: The Communication chrono was only examined up to have. Therefore I have not determined the Originator, A.O. on RO of DIRS after this date)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

MAR 18 '97 06:58PM P.12

2

This cable reports that Helms appeared before the Warren Commission on 28 January re what the Commission expected from the CIA. "On Saturday, Feb we will give Commission a report on Lee Oswald's activities in Mexico, presented so as to protect your sources and techniques. Pls review your reporting to us on this subject and cable in anything additional you may have in time for us to include in separt." CRS indicates Scott, White, Phillips, 2007 and Goodpasture & Hottie D

2. MEXI 8008
   response to DIR 97829
   Orig + RO: Scott reports that station has reported all info available. It also notes that all the info, including that from the Soviet Embassy [taps] was separted to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

3

The FBI's Mexi report
Ambassador Mann saatt
points out that this
information may have
been included in Mexican
FBI reports to the and
that the CIA would have
been cited as the source
(R.S indicates Scott (White,)
Phillips, Manwell, Qrame
Goodpasture) (503-210)
C. April 7, 1964

1. State Department Cable
# 1775 (Control 133) -

informs Embassy that
Coleman, Slawson +
Willens plan travel
to Mexi on & april:
purpose:
a. determine nature & extent
of effort of U.S. investigating
agencies abroad
b. investigative effort of
Mexican authorities
c. Consult US + Mexi author-
ities resi further investi-
gation if any is determined
necessary


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

4/3/78
HARDWAY

Summary of ["QKOPERA/Liaison", ZR BLESS "file. 9/11/61-8/28/64

1. The Company concerned is [Praeger Publishing.]

2. A memo from [Sumner W. Beckman] "CA/PROP" dated 8/21/61 deals w/ the publication and royalty problems of [Milovan Djilas] books.

3. A blind memo dated 2/11/64 deals @ the status of negotiations with ["Dragoon"], author of [Castro's Cuba]. The Agency wants He is unwilling to update the book but is open to the possibility of doing another volume. Ide has introduced the author of the memo to two other Cubans who were writing books: Justo Canillo Hernandez and Ernesto Betancourt.

4. [Susan Watkins says. ZR BLESS] was subproject of [WUBONBON.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

4/3/78
HARDWAY

Summary of [Mr.U. Sandry]
Development and Plans
file.

1. "Subject & Project file Request
   and Field notification of action"
   dated 6/26/63 describes the
   project as "a Developmental
   and Target Opportunity
   project based in the U.S. Sub-
   projects are to be
   targeted abroad..."

2. Project Action form dated
   8/28/63 signed by Karamessines
   approves a $45,000 budget
   for [WOUTARY] for the fiscal
   year 1963 (July) to 1964 (June).

4. Memo dated 3/17/64. to ODP
   from Fracy Barnes requests
   that [WOUTAROY's] budget be
   increased to $80,000.
   "The requested increase is
   needed to (a) cover an unan-
   ticipated developmental charge
   in connection with an
   individual doing SPECIAL work
   involving a hatan american



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

business advisory group;
(b) cover the production
costs of propaganda material
targeted at foreign visitors
to the world


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# HUNT SUMMARY

files reviewed... Hardway 4/7/76

1. [ECPOEM-WURABBIT] Correspondence folder 7, Box 2,

2. [WURABBIT] Termination Folder 1, Box 1

3. MPS Project file [WUPUNDIT]

included in

Frzizzdom Fund INS (CONDUIT)

SEAMAN'S Service Institute.

Α ΡΩΑΣΟΣΓ Spanish. Affiliate

Contenintal Press., Inc.

There were 2 "one time only" operations in 1963 { WURAISIN] and [WU TRANSITT] which were responsible for publishing two books each.

There was one "one time only" operation in 1964 [WU SENDER] which was responsible for publishing three books. There [WUSENDER] proposal for but it was evidently not approved.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

Operational structure. There was one operation that was primarily a development project. There was a project involving [Processed] and publication. There was a project involving the Freedom Friend and distribution. There was a project to provide news service to foreign press through [Continental Press]. Prior to 1963 the development project funds were used for book procurement. In FY63-64 book procurement was made a seperate project. Funds for this project were channeled to [Processed] through the Freedom Fund.

4. MPS Project File [WU BONBON]

5. " " [WU HUSTLER] PART I of 3.

6. [WU BONBON] Accountings Folder 24


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

7. [WUBONBON] Operations FY69
   folder 25

Contains two memos for the Records by Hunt re 8/8/63 meetings

8. [WUPANDIT] Support folder 27

9. [WU PUNDIT (WUBONBON)] folder 26

10. [WUBONBON] Development & Plans F19

11. [WUBONBON] Politary Papers F20

12. [WUPUNDIT] CIA Book Publishing
    F-28+29

13. [WUBONBON] FY 65 Support
    F.21

14. [WUPUNDIT/WUBONBON] Support
    F 23+22


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)