# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WH Division

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station, lexico City

SUBJECT

LIHUFF/1

REFERENCE: A. HMMW-11321, 13 Feb 1963
Β. ΗΜΜΑ-20931, 22 Mar 1963

1. Transmitted under separate cover truæname attachments are the following forms to complete Headquarters' records on subject:

a. Personal History Statement

b. Personai history Suate...cat (Appendix I)

c. Report of Medical History

2. Subject was originally recruited as a cutout for the LIHUFF/2 organization. However, his actual duties for KUBARK entail far more than contact and communication with LIHUFF/2. He is an outside agent. in addition to acting as the contact between the Mexico Station and the LIHUFF/2 Institute, LIHUFF/l is responsible for organizing and directing the KUWOLF student groups in the LIHUFF/2 project; printing and distributing of propaganda; planning and initiating student harrassn.ent activities. Since LihUFF,l's duties are those of an outside agent, his salary was established to reimburse him for the amount of tince it is necessary for him to spend on LIHUFF activities. In this regard, it is felt that the sum of $500. monthly is not an excessive amount. Headquarters is requested to process a contract for subject in this amount.

3. Subject's social security number is/ 255-58-5834

Enclosures:

as stated above (UNDER SEPARATE COVER)

Distribution:

WH, w/encis

CS COPY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

Willard C. CURTIS

DATE TYPED

29 Apr 63

CATE CISPATCHED

30 Apr 63

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMPER

HMMA-21166

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-50999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
PART 111

NOTE: DETACH THIS PORTION OF FORM AND DISTRIBUTE SEPARATELY

| 17. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.         |                                                                                                                                                      | 18.                 | 6741 |
| ------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------- | :--: |
| 255-58-58843                    | IF SOCIAL SECURITY NO. IS NOT AVAILABLE, HAVE FORM NO. 55-5. "APPLICATION FOR SOCIAL SECURITY ACCENTS, COMPLETED AS PROVIDED IN DETAILED PROCEDURES. |                     |      |
| 08                              |                                                                                                                                                      | 20. CITIZENSHIP USA |      |
| 21. ADDRESS OF RECORD (In U.S.) | 22. ADDRESS (Foreign).                                                                                                                               |                     |      |
| none                            | Mexico Olty, Mexico                                                                                                                                  |                     |      |

DISTRIBUTION- SIGNED ORIG. AND COPY - TO FINANCE: COPY - TO CENTRAL COVER: COPY - TO FILE

FORM 313a OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
6-60

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable, write "NA". Write "Unknown" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.
2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.
3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completica of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifi: ations to the best advantage.

SECTION I

GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

Wichtrich, Alfonso Rudolph

2. AGE

47

3. SEX

X MALE

FEMALE

4. HEIGHT

6'3"

5. WEIGHT

185

6. COLOR OF EYES

Brown

7. COLOR OF HAIR

Brown

8. TYPE COMPLEXION

Light

9. TYPE BUILD

Med.

10. SCARS(Type and Location)

None

11. OTHER DISTINGUSHING PHYSICAL FEATURES

None

12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country)

Toluca Highway - Kim 19-1/2
El Magueyito, Cuajimalpa
Mexico, D. F. Mexico

13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country) AND PHONE NO.

Same as (12)-
Phone 20-77-477

14. CURRENT PHONE NO.

20-77-477

15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT.

35-96-53

16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory of Country)

Mexico

17. NICKNAMES

Pancho - A!

18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED

None

19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (including Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES.

Pancho through college - Willcox & Tucson Ariz, A!- Used to date.

20. IF LEGAL CHANGE. GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by What Authority)

SECTION II

POSITION DATA

1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL
   ACCEPT (You will not be considered for any position with a lower
   entrance salary).

$

3. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT

4. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL

OCCASIONALLY

FREQUENTLY

CONSTANTLY

OTHER:

5. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check (X) each item applicable)

WASHINGTON D.C.

ANYWHERE IN U.S.

CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify):

OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U.S.

6. INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTON. D.C. AREA.

FORM 444 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECTION III

1. DATE OF BIRTH
   Oct. 30, 1915

2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Chihuahua, Chih, Mexico.

3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U.S.A.

4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED BY
   BIRTH
   MARRIAGE
   X OTHER (Specify): derivirive

5. DATE NATURALIZED
   N.A.

6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
   N.A.

7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE
   N.A.

8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)
   N.A.

9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY
   YES
   X NO

10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY
    N.A.

11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY.

N.A.

12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE PRESENT CITIZENSHIP
    YES

13. GIVE PARTICULARS
    N.A.

NO X

14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)
    N.A.

15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S.
    1916

16. PORT OF ENTRY
    El Paso, Texas

17. ON PASSPORT OF WHAT COUNTRY
    Unknown

18. LAST U.S. VISA (No, Type, Place of Issue)
    N.A

19. DATE VISA ISSUED
    N.A.

SECTION IV

EDUCATION

1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED

LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE - NO DEGREE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE
X BACHELOR'S DEGREE
TRADE, BUSINESS, OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE
GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS
MASTER'S DEGREE
DOCTOR'S DEGREE

2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

1. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
   Willcox Grammar School

2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
   Willcox, Arizona

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)
   1922-1930

4. GRADUATE
   NO

3. HIGH SCHOOL

1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
   Willcox Union High School

2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
   Willcox, Arizona

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)
   1930-1934

4. GRADUATE
   X YES
   NO

1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL
2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To)
   YES

4. GRADUATE
   NO

4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY
University of Arizona
Tucson Arizona

SUBJECT
MAJOR
Range
Ecology

MINOR
Animal
Husb.

DATES ATTENDED
FROM
34

TO
39

DEGREE
REC'D
Bachelor

DATE
REC'D
May
1939

SEM. QTR.
HOURS
(Specify)
10
Sem-

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

5. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4 WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.

N.A.

6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO  | MONTHS |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | --- | ------ |
| N.A.                       |                         |      |     |        |
| N.A.                       |                         |      |     |        |
| N.A.                       |                         |      |     |        |

7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL                    | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO  | MONTHS |
| --------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | --- | ------ |
| Cav. School - Basic Fr. Riley, Kansas         | Troop Duty              | 1941 | 3   |        |
| Cav. School - Advanced Fr. Riley. Kansas      | Horse & Mechanized      | 1942 | 3   |        |
| Command & Genera. Staff, Fl. Leavenworth, Kan | G-2 - C&GS              | 1943 | 3   |        |

8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

War Dept. Mis-X- Intelligence Fort Hunt, Washington, D. C. 1943 - 6 months

SECTION V

1. LANGUAGE

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES

COMPETENCE - IN ORDER LISTED
R-Read, W-Write, S-Speak

|                                                                                                                                                                               |                                |                              |                       |                     |                     |                   |              |     |     |     |     |     |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ---------------------------- | --------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------- | ------------ | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| (List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence. Indicate your proficiency to Read. Write of Speck by placing a cherk (3) In the appropriate bortes). | EQUIV- ALENT TO NATIVE FLUENCY | FLUENT BUT OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN | ADEQUATE FOR RESEARCH | ADEQUATE FOR TRAVEL | LIMITED KNOR- LEDGE | NATIVE OF COUNTRY | HOW ACQUIRED |     |     |     |     |     |
|                                                                                                                                                                               |                                |                              |                       |                     |                     |                   |              |     |     |     |     |     |
|                                                                                                                                                                               | R                              | W                            | $                     | R                   | W                   | $                 | R            | $   | R   | I   | W   | $   |
| ---                                                                                                                                                                           | ---                            | ---                          | ---                   | ---                 | ---                 | ---               | ---          | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Spanish                                                                                                                                                                       | X                              | X                            | X                     |                     |                     |                   |              |     |     | X   | X   | X   |


2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER NOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

4 years high school

2 years college

3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND BRITTEN FORM, EXPLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.

N.A.

4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS

Business terminology - write - speak read & translate.

Socio-Economics write - speak read & translate.

5. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE, COULD YOU BE FILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION FOR WHICH YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED

X YES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECTION VI GEOGRAPHIC AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

1. LIST BELOW ANY FOREIG REGIONS OR COUNTRIES IN WHICH YOU HAVE TRAVELLED OR GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF RESIDENCE, STUDY OR CTK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE SUCH AS TERRAIN, HARBORS, UTILITIES, RAIL- ROADS, INDUSTRIES, POLITICAL PARTIES, ETC.

| NAME OF REGION OR COUNTRY | TYPE OF SPECIALIZED KNOWLEDGE           | DATES OF RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL | DATES AND PLACE OF STUDY | KACELEDGE ACQUIRED BY   |                 |
| ------------------------- | --------------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------- | --------------- |
|                           |                                         |                              |                          | RES: DEACE TRAVEL STUDY | WORK ASSIGNMENT |
| Mexico                    | Industrial Bus. Socio-Economia Politics | 1919-Present                 | N.A.                     | X X X                   | X               |
| Panama                    | Business Terrain - RR                   | 1945-1949                    | N.A.                     | X X X                   |                 |
| China                     | Terrain Local Conditions.               | 1943-1945                    | N.A.                     | X X X                   | X               |
| Central Amer.             | Terrain Local Conditions                | 1946-Present                 | N.A.                     |                         | X               |

2. INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE.

Mexico - Business - Work Assignment

Panama - Business - Work Assignment

China - Army.

3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE IF ISSUED.

(#118056)- Expired August 20, 1962

SECTION VIT TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS

1. TYPING(wpm) 2. SHORTMANO(wpm)

x Unknown No

3. SHORTHAND SYSTEM USED- CHECK (X) APPROPRIATE ITEM

GREGG SPEEDWRITING ISTENOTYPE 1 OTHEP (Specify):

2. INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES WITH WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING (Comptometer, Microgaph, Card Punch, Etta.

None.

SECTION VIII SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

1. LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARF ACT VE NO HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY

Major Athletics - Good

Riding Horseback - Good

Horse shoes - Good

Gardening - Fair

Bridge - Fair

2. INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION OR TIPE OF WORK.

3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY HAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII, LIST ANY SPECIAL SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indi cate CK speed, sending and receiving). OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.

SECTION VIII CONTINLED TO PAGE S


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECTION VIII CONTINUED FRON PAGE 4

4. ARE YOU NOW OR MAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEMBER OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT, ELECTRICIAN, RADIO CPERATOR, TEACHER, LAWYER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC.

YES X NO

5. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ABOVE. INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSUING LICENSE (Provide License Registry Number, if knoкт).

N.A.

6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year ct Issue)

N.A.

7 LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)

N.A.

8. LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF WHICH YOU ARE THE AUTHOR (DO NOT submit copies unless requested). INDICATE THE TITLE, PUBLICATION DATE, AND TYPE OF WRITING (Noor Fiction or Scientific articles, General Interest subjects, Novels, Short Stories, Etc.).

N.A.

9. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

N.A.

10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PURE DE LIONS EVDEOIEC

Throughout College and business career.

11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL. ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OR SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW OR WERE FORMERLY A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU MAVE RECEIVED.

Alpha Zeta - Honorary
Bob Cats
Scabbard & Blade
University of Arizona

SECTION IX

EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of unemployment. List all civilian exployment by a foreign Govemment, regardless of dates. Incompleting item 9, "De-scription of Duties consider your experience carefully and provide mearmgful, objective statements.

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To By Ide and Ye.)

1/1/63 - Present

2 NAME OF EM OYING FIRM OR AGENCY

American Chamber of Commerce

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country?

Lucerna 78 - Mexico D. F.

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Promote trade & good will

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Executive Committee

6. TITLE OF JOB

Executive Vice President

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

• 9600. ....annum

8. CLASS. GRADE (Il Federal Service)

8. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Management & direction of Chamber, P. R. Defend free enterprise system.
Coordinate committee work. Promote trade develop good will.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

N.A.

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

-6-

# SECTION CONTINUED FROM PAGE 5

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

Sept. 1949 - Dec. 31, 1962

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

R. C. Cola Company

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Columbus, Georgia

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Soft Drink

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

T.H. Stanley

6. TITLE OF JOB

Gen. Mgr, Royal Crown, S.A

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$ 12,000 PER year

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Direction of manufacturing concentrates. Marketing. Advertising. Development of sales. Franchising. Mexico and C. America. Supervision of all franchised bottling plants.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

Transfer to States - Preffered Mexico.

11. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

Dec. 1946 - Sept. 1949

12. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

R. C. Bottling Co. of Panama

13. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Panama - Ren de Panama

14. KIND OF BUSINESS

Bottling & Sales (Soft drinks)

15. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Board of Directors

16. TITLE OF JOB

17. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$19,000. PER year

18. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

19. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Direction of Company.

20. REASONS FOR LEAVING

Unfavorable climatic conditions.

21. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

22. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

23. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

24. KIND OF BUSINESS

25. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

26. TITLE OF JOB

27. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$

PER

28. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

29. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

30. REASONS FOR LEAVING

31. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo and Yr.)

32. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

33. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

34. KIND OF BUSINESS

35. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

36. TITLE OF JOB

37. SALARY OR EARNINGS

$

PER

38. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

SECTION IS CONTINUED TO PAGE 7

8/RS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECTION IX CONTILED FROM PAGE 6

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

5

10 REASONS FOR LEAVING

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

6. TITLE OF JOB

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

PER

9. CESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)

12 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

3 ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

6. TITLE OF OB

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

$

PER

7

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

10 REASONS FOR LEAVING

8. IF PRIOR SERVICE BITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE TO APD U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT, IF KNOWN.

9. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANY POSITION.

YES NO

HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN

YES NO

IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECTION X

1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE DRAFT UNDER THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND SERVICE ACT OF 1948 (As amended)

4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON

MILITARY SERVICE

1. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS N.A.

YES 2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIFY 3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.
CATION

NO

5. LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NO. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS

2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD

1. CURRENT AND/OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP

| CHECK (X) AS APPROPRIATE | ARMY | NAVY | MARINE CORPS | AIR FORCE | COAST GUARD | MERCHANT MARINE | NATIONAL AIR NAT'L GUARD | FOREIGN ORGAN. OR MIL SERVICE (Specify) |
| ------------------------ | ---- | ---- | ------------ | --------- | ----------- | --------------- | ------------------------ | --------------------------------------- |
| HAVE SERVED              | XX   |      |              |           |             |                 |                          |                                         |
| NOW SERVING              |      |      |              |           |             |                 |                          |                                         |

2. BRANCH OR CORPS OF ABOVE CHECKED ORGANIZATION(S)

Cavalry - MIS

3. DATE SEPARATED FROM EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY (Past service) 4. TOTAL LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMED FORCES (Past and current service)

6-46 6 years

5. DATE ENTERED PAST SERVICE CURRENT SERVICE 6. TOTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY OR-
   ACTIVE DUTY GANIZATION

Jan. 1941

7. RANK, GRADE OR PAST SERVICE CURRENT SERVICE 8. SERVICE, SERIAL OR FILE NUMBER (If now serving, provide correct number)
   DATE Lt. Col. 08 0-3.7220 08

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL PAST SERVICE CURRENT SERVICE

SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND TITLE MIS

10. SECONDARY MIL. OCCUPATIONAL PAST SERVICE CURRENT SERVICE

SPECIALTY (Mos or Designator) AND C-2 Cav.

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether applicable to past or current service) Past.

Troop duty - troop and squadron - horse and mechanized cavalry.

Military Intelligence - War Dept. Assigned CBI (MIS-X)

12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE DUTY

| HONORABLE DISCHARGE      | X   |
| ------------------------ | --- |
| RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY | X   |
| RETIREMENT FOR AGE       |     |

| RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE             |     |
| ---------------------------------- | --- |
| RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY   |     |
| RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY |     |

UNIQUE HA - ISHIPS

OTHER:

13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVES

REGULAR X RESERVE (Including the National and Air National Guard) X OTHER (Including AUS)

3. MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS

| 1. DO YOU NOW HAVE RESERVE STATUST | X YES NO | 2. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE NAT'L GRD. OR AIR NAT'L GRD.? | YES X NO | 3. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE ROTC? | YES X NO |
| ---------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- | ------------------------------------ | -------- |

4. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW

| X ARMY | MARINE CORPS | NATIONAL GUARD   | COAST GUARD | NAVY ROTC      | INDICATE ROTC CATEGORY NUMBER |
| ------ | ------------ | ---------------- | ----------- | -------------- | ----------------------------- |
| NAVY   | AIR FORCE    | AIR NAT'L. GUARD | ARMY ROTC   | AIR FORCE ROTC |                               |

5. CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR 6. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT 7. EXPIRATION DATE OF CURRENT RESERVE OBLIGA-
   RATE Lt. Col. 08 RANK 1944 TION

8. CHECK (X) CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY READY RESERVE STANDBY (Active) X STANDBY (Inactive) RETIRED

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Desig- 10. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (Mos or Des-
   nator) AND TITLE ignator) AND TITLE

MI Unknown

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES

N.A.

12. ARE YOU CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHED YES 13. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
    TO A RESERVE, NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAIN- X NO AND ADDRESS
    ING UNIT

14. HAVE YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGN- YES 15. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 14, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY
    MENT? X NO AND ADDRESS

16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE YEARS MONTHS 17. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT
    FOR LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUD- Unknown
    ING ACTIVE AND INACTIVE DUTY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECTION XI FINANCIAL STATUS

1. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON YOUR SALARY? YES X NO
2. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "NO" TO THE ABOVE, STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME

Investments.

3 BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

| NAME OF INSTITUTION      | ADDRESS (City, State, Country) |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------ |
| Falls Church Bank        | Falls Church, Virginia         |
| Banco Nacional de Mexico | Mexico, D.F.                   |

4. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR, BANKRUPTCY. YES X NO
5. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE, GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE(S)

6. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES

| NAME                          | ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State) |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------- |
| Falls Church Bank             | Faus Church, Virginia              |
| R.C. Bottling of Baltimore 29 | 401 Eas: 30th St. Baltimore Md     |
| Popular Dept. Store           | El Paso, Texas.                    |

7. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT
   ACT, PENSION, OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE? YES X NO
8. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

9. DO YOU HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS WITH NON-U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES; OR IN
   OR WITH U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTS?

YES X NO

SECTION XII MARITAL STATUS

1. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, or Annulled) SPECIFY: Married
2. STATE DATE, PLACE, AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

N.A.

| WIFE, HUSBAND OR FIANCE: | If you have been married more than once - including annulments - use a separate sheet for former wife or husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If carriage contemplated, fill in appropriate information for fiance. |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

| 3. NAME | (First) Rachel. | (Middle) Esther | (Maiden) Williams | (Last) Wichtrich 06 |
| ------- | --------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |

| 4. DATE OF MARRIAGE                                                          | Dec. 23, 1938                            | 5. PLACE OF MARRIAGE (City, State, Country) | Tucson, Arizona - Pima County U.S.A. |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| 6. HIS (OR HER) ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE (No., Street, City, State, Country)  | 3300 Hawthorne S:., Tucson, Ariz, U.S.A. |                                             |                                      |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |                                             |                                      |

| 7. LIVING                                           | XX YES NO                                                                          | 8 DATE OF DEATH | 9. CAUSE OF DEATH |     |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | --- |
| 10 CURRENT ADDRESS (Give last address, if deceased) | Toluca Highway, Klm. 19 1/2, El Magueyito, Cuajimalpa, Mexico. D.F., Mexico.       |                 |                   |     |
| --------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |                 |                   |     |

| 11. DATE OF BIRTH | 2/13/1917 09 | 12. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country) | Avoca, Texas, U.S.A. |
| ----------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------- | -------------------- |
| 13. CITIZENSHIP   | U.S.A.       |                                           |                      |
| ---------------   | ------       | -                                         | -                    |

SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

-10-

SECTION ZII CONTINLED FROM PAGE 9

14. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY

N.A.

15. PLACE OF ENTRY

N.A.

16. FORMER CITIZENSHIPISI
    Countrylles

Ν.Α.

17. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (City. State, Country)
    ACQUIRED

N.A.

Ν.Α.

19. OCCUPATION

Housewife

20. PRESENT EMPLOYER/Also give foener employer, or if spouse deceased or
    unemployed gire Leer two employers)

N.A.

21. EMPLOYER'S OR BUSINESS ADDRESS (No. Street Cmy. State, Country)

Ν.Α.

22. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From and to 3y Mo and Yr)

NA

24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH MILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED

25 BRANCH OF SERVICE

N.A.

N.A.

25. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE. U.S. OR FOREIGN

ΒΝ.Α.

SECTION XIII

CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

1. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILDREN AND DEPENDENTS

| NAME                 | PELATIONSHIP | DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | ADDRESS                         |
| -------------------- | ------------ | ----------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------- |
| John Allen Wichtrich | Son          | 8-14-40 Tucson, Arizona | U.S.A.      | Navy OCS Newport, R. I.         |
| Janet Rae Wichtrich  | Daughter     | 3-5-1943                | U.S.A.      | Univ. of N. Mex. Albuquque, .w. |
| Ellen Anne           | Daughter     | 6-28-1948 Panama R.P    | U.S.A.      | Mexico, D. F.                   |
| William Gus          | Son          | 6-8-1950 Mexico DF      | U.S.A.      | Mexico, D. F.                   |
| Patricia Jean        | Daughter     | 3-17-1955 Mexico, D. F. | U.S.A.      | Mexico, D. F.                   |

2. NUMBER OF CHILDREN Including .tep-
   children and adopted children) WHO ARE
   UNMARRIED. UNDER 21 YRS. OF AGE.
   AND NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.

4

3. NUMBER OF UTHER DEPENDENTS (Including spouse,
   parents, ster-parents, amater, etc.) WHO DEPEND ON
   YOU FOR AT LEAST 50% OF THEIR SUPPORT. OR
   CHILDREN CED 21 YRS. OF AGE WHO ARE NOT
   SELF-SUPPORTING.

5

SECTION XIV

FATHER (Give same information. for Stepfather and or Guardian ona sepatále sherij

| 1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middig) |     | 2. LIVING |     | 3. DATE OF DEATH | 4. CAUSE OF DEATH |
| -------------------------------- | --- | --------- | --- | ---------------- | ----------------- |
| Wichtrich, Gustaf                |     | YES X NO  |     | Feb. 1950?       | Pneumonia         |

5. CURRENT ADDRESS - Give last address, if deceased (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Willcox, Arizona

| 6. DATE OF BIRTH | 7. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country) | 8. CITIZENSHIP | 9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY | 10. PLACE OF ENTRY |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| 1864             | Germany                                  | U.S.           | Unknown                               | Unknow:            |

11. FORMER CITIZENSHIPIS)
    Country (les

German

12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP
    ACQUIRED

19-15

13. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

Tombstone, Cochise Co., Arizona

14. OCCUPATION

Owner, Sheetmetal Shop

15. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Game-lest employer, it Father is deceased of unemployed)

N.A.

16. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF-EMPLOYED.

Willcox Arizona

17. DATES OF MILITART SERVICE (From-and-To) 18. BRANCH OF SERVICE

N.A.

N.A.

20. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN

19. COUNTRY

N.A.

N.A.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECTION XV

MOTHER (Give same andration for Stepmother on separate sheets)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Maddle)

Esparza Fermina 06

2. LIVING 3. CATE OF DEATH

YES X NO Feb. 1951

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

Pneumonia

5-CURRENT ADDRESS - GIVELLAST ADORESS, IF DECEASED (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Willcox, Arizona 10

6. DATE OF BIRTH 7. PLACE OF BIRTH (City. State. Country)

8. CITIZENSHIP

1874 Chihuahua) Mexico, D. F. U.S.A.

9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY 10. FLACE OF ENTRY

Unknown El Paso, Texas

11. FORMER CITIZENSHIPISI 12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 13. #HERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Corsarn

[Countryfice Mexican ACQUIRED : Bisbee, Arizona

11-24-1944 09

15-PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother is deceased or unecployed)

14. OCCUΡΑΤΙΟΥ

Housewife N.A.

16. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ALDRESS OR MOTHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF EMPLOYED

N.A.

17. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To) 18. BRANCH OF SERVICE 19. COUNTRY

N.A. NA

20. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN

N.A.

# SECTION XVI

BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including Half-, Step- and Adopted Brothers and Sisters)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

Mrs. Margaret Anderson 06

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

1037 Olson St., El Paso, Texas 10

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S.

5. LIVING 6. AGE

XYES NO 54

1. FULL NAME (Last, irst-Middle/

Mrs. Charlette Edelman 06

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S.

5. LIVING 6. AGE

YES XINO

N.A.

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Maddies

3

Mrs. Mary Thanna Pauer 06

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

228 Nogales. Santa Barbara, California 10

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S.

5. LIVING 6. AGE

XVES NO 52

FULL NAVE Lest-First-Middie,

Mrs. Sherman Dent) 06

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

3228 East Almeria Rd., Phoenix, Arizona na) (0

2. RELATIONSHIP

Sister

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S.

5. LIVING 6. AGE

XYES NO 51

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Midcle)

Frank Wichtrich 06

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (Na, Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

Los Angeles Area (Address Unknown)

2. RELATIONSHIP

Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

US

5. LIVING 6. AGE

X YES I NO 50

11. FULL NAME : Last-Farat-Maddie,

Gus Wichtrich 06

14- CURRENT ADDRESS(Nc., Street, City, Zone, Stats, Country)

2. RELATIONSHIP

Brother

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

U.S.

5. LIVING 6. AGE

VES NO

1. FULL NAME (Last-Fsrat-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. CITIZENSHIP/Country)

7

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

5. LIVING 6. AGE

YES NO

1. FULL NAME (Lest-Firat-Kiddle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

8

4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, Stats, Country)

5. LIVING 6. AGE

YEST 40

1. FULL NAME (Lest-First-Maddies

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

4. CURRENT ACORESS (No.. Street, City, Zone, Stats, Cauntry)

5. LIVING 6. AGE

VES YO

- 11 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECTION XVII

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Williams, John Newton

5. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   Deming, New Mexico

6. DATE OF BIRTH
   Unknown

9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY
   N.A.

11. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(ies))
    N.A.

14. OCCUPATION
    cotton ginner

2. YES [X] NO

7. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Rome, Georgia

10. PLACE OF ENTRY
    N.A.

12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED
    N.A.

15. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Father-in-Law is deceased or unemployed)
    self

3. DATE OF DEATH
   1944

8. CITIZENSHIP
   U.S.

13. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
    N.A.

4. CAUSE OF DEATH
   Stroke

# SECTION XVIII

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   Williams, Lucy

5. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   Tempe, Arizona

6. DATE OF BIRTH
   Unknown

9. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY
   N.A.

11. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country(ies))
    N.A.

14. OCCUPATION
    House wife

2. LIVING
   YES [X] NO

7. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Virginia

10. PLACE OF ENTRY
    N.A.

12. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED
    N.A.

15. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother-in-Law is deceased or unemployed)
    N.A.

3. DATE OF DEATH
   1918

8. CITIZENSHIP
   U.S.

13. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
    N.A.

4. CAUSE OF DEATH
   Flu

# SECTION XIX RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER (1) LIVE ABROAD, (2) ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS OR (3) WORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
N.A.

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT.

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

SECTION XIX CONTINUED TO PAGE 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECTION XIX CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

6. SPECIAL REMARKS, IF ANY, CONCERNING RELATIVES NOTED IN SECTION XIX ABOVE

Any relatives I might have in Mexico or Germany are unknown.

SECTION XX RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO ARE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP 3. AGE 4. CITIZENSHIP

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (If known)

1. NAME (Last-wot-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP 3. AGE 4. CITIZENSHIP

5. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (If known)

1. NAME (Leam-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP 3. AGE 4. CITIZENSHIP

5. ADDRESS (No., Streer, City, State, Country)

6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (If known)

SECTION XXI REFERENCES, ACQUAINTANCES, AND NEIGHBORS

1. LIST FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCES. NOT RELATIVES. IN THE U.S.. WHO KNOW YOU INTIMATELY

| NAME (Lost-Pirat-Middle) | BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street. City and State) | RESIDENCE ADDRESS (No Street City and State) |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Stanley T. Hiram 06      | 401 East 30th St.10 Baltimore, Md.             | 501 Look-Out Drive 10 Columbus, Ceorgia      |
| Franklin, William 306    |                                                | 521 West Lewis 10 Phoenix, Arizona           |
| Teeter, Carl.06          | Pres. Univ. of Arizona 08 Tucson, Arizona      |                                              |
| Darvil Richard 06        | Univ. of Arizona                               |                                              |
| Pistor, William 66       | Animal Science                                 |                                              |

2. LIST FIVE PERSONS IN THE U.S. WHO KNOW YOU SOCIALLY NOT BELATIVES. SUPERVISORS OR EMPLOYERS

| NAME (Last-First-Middle) | BUSINESS ADDRESS (No. Street, City and State) | RESIDENCE ADDRESS (No Street, City and State) |
| ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- |
| Bechtold, Edward 306     | 29                                            | 1514 Conrad Sauer 10 Houston, Texas,          |
| Raven, William ] 06      | P.A. A. - Miami, Florida                      | Rt. 2 - Box 307 10 Homestead = Florida        |
| Scott, Bil 06            |                                               | 205 16 S: N. W 10 Albuquerque, N. Mexico      |
| Pearson, George 06       |                                               | 8524 Carlsbad Way 10 Riverside, California    |
| Alt, Ed06                |                                               | 41 Silver Ridge Rdco New Caanan, Conn.        |

3. LIST THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR MOST RECENT NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THE U.S.

| NAME (Lost-First-Middle) | BUSINESS ADDRESS (No.. Street, City and State) | RESIDENCE ADDRESS (No. Street. City and State) |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- |
| Pawley, Ted. 306         |                                                | 3468 Gunston RdJ10 Alexandria, Va.             |
| Aurand, Peter 06         |                                                | 219 Orchard Drive (6 Fairfax, Va.              |

- 13 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECTION XXII CLUBS, SOCIETIES, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

NOTE: List names and addresses of all clubs, societies, professional societies, employee groups or organizations of any kind (Include membership in, or support of, any organization having headquarters or branch in a foreign country) to which you belong or have belonged.

| NAME AND CHAPTER             | ADDRESS (Number, Street, City. State, Country) | DATES OF MEMBERSHIP FROM | TO   |
| ---------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | ---- |
| Sigma Chi                    | Univ of A., Tucson, Ariz                       | 1935                     | 1939 |
| Alpha Zeta                   | "                                              | "                        | "    |
| Bob Cats                     | "                                              | "                        | "    |
| "Club                        | "                                              |                          |      |
| American Club                | Mexico, D. F.                                  | 1950                     | 1955 |
| American Club                | "                                              | 1963                     |      |
| American Chamber of Commerce | "                                              | 1950                     | 1963 |
| Knights of Columbus          | "                                              |                          |      |
| St. Pat's Council            | "                                              | 1958                     | 1963 |

# SECTION XXIII RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

|                                                                      | INCLUSIVE DAT FROM | TO   |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ---- |
| Mexico, D.F., Mexico - 655 Sierra Leona                              | 1949               | 1952 |
| Mexico, D. F., Mexico - Toluca Highway, Klm 19 1/2 Cuajimalpa, D. F. | 1952               | 1963 |
| Panama Rd. P. Golf Heights                                           | 1946               | 1949 |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECTION XXIV ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

1. DO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOCATED OR ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF; OR HAVE YOU EVER SUPPORTES OR BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH ANY FOLITICAL PARTY INDIVIDUAL OR OPGAN-IZATION WHICH ADVOCATES CE TEACHES THE CutpiHRON OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES B FORCE VICOLENCE OR OTHER CONSTITUTIONAL MEANS OR SEES BY FORCE OR VIOLENCE TO DENY PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES"

2. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION EXPLAIN

3. DO YOU USE OR HAVE YOU EVER USED INTOXICANTS'

X YES
NO

4. .F SO. TO WHAT EXTENT!

Moderate

5. DO YOU USE OR HAVE YOU EVER USED NARCOTICS'

YES
X NO

6 IF SO. TO WHAT EXTENT?

7. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF, OR SUPPORTED, OR HAD ANY CONNECTIONS BIT A FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ORGAN-IZATION OR ITS ACTIVITIES'

YES
NO

IF ANSWER IS "YES", GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS.

8. LIST BELOW THE NAMES OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EMPLOYMENT SINCE 1940

None.

9. IF TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAVE CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF YOU, INDICATE THE NAME OF THE AGENCY AND THE APPROXIMATE DATE OF THE INVESTIGATION.

NOTE SPECIAL If your answer is "YES" to the following Questions 10, 11 or 12, provide the information requested for each INSTRUCTIONS! question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this fora in a sealed envelope.

10. MAVE YOU, OR TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE HAS YOUR SPOUSE. EVER BEEN DETAINED. ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CON-VICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF THE LAW OTHER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION IN THE UNITED STATES OR ABROADT

IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT, CITY, STATE, COUNTRY, DATE, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIAL INSTRUCTION ABOVE.

YES
X NO

11. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED. COURT-MARTIALED OR OTHERWISE PUNISHED UNDER MILITARY LAW OR REG-ULATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE INCIDENT(S) AND PROVIDE UATEIS) OF OCCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN AC CORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

YES
X NO

12. ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE, NOT MENTIONED ABOVE, WHICH MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION. WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EX-PLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE INCIDENT(S) AND PROVIDE DATEIS) OF OCCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN AC CORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

YES
X NO

# SECTION XXV PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

1. NAME (First-Middle-Last)

Mrs. Rachel Esther Wichtrich

06

2. RELATIONSHIP

Wife

3. HOME ADDRESS (No., Street. City Zone. State. Country)

Toluca Highway, Klm 19 1/2 Cuajimalpa Mexico D. F.

10

4. HOME PHONE NO.

20-77-47

08

5. BUSINESS ADDRESS (No.. Street, City, Zone, State, Country) INDICATE NAME OF FIRM OR 6. BUSINESS PHONE NO. & EXT. EMPLOYER, IF APPLICABLE

American Chamber of Commerce In Mexico

Lucerna #78, Mexico, D. F.

29,10

35-96-53

08. 
7. IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, OTHER CLOSE RELATIVES (Spouse. Mother. Father) MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED. IF SUCH NOTIFICATION IS NOT DESIRABLE, BECAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER SEASONS PLEASE SO STATE.

Mr or Mrs Ellen Claridge - 619-16th St., N.W. 06, 10

Albuquerque, New Mexico - (Sister in law)

-15-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECTION YYVI

-14-

CERTIFICATION

YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF SNY STATEMENT MADE IN THIS APPLICATION WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

I have read and understand the instructions. I Certify that the foregoing answers are true and correct to the best of my knowleage and belief. I agree that any misstatement or omission as to material fact will constitute grounds for immediate dismissal or rejection of my application. I also understand that any false statement made herem may be punishable by law (U.S. Code, Title 18, Section 1001).

1. DATE OF SIGNATURES

8 May 1963

2 SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT

3. SIGNED AT (City and State)

Mexico City, Mexico

4 SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

NOTE: Use the following space for extra detals. Reference each continued item by section and ten number to which st relates. sign your name at the end of the added material. If addırmal space is required uselextra pages the same size as this page and sign each such page.

Section XI - (9) - Shares in Ron Castillo S.A. - Mexico, D. F.
Shares in Telefonos de Mexico, S. A.

Section XXI (3) Only neighbors - remaining in area.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT - (Appendix I)

Listed below are names of organizations identified by the Attorney General, under his responsibility pursuant to Executive Order 10450, dated 27 April 1953, to list the names of each foreign or domestic organization, association, movement, group or combination of persons which he designates as Totalitarian, Fascist, Communist, or subversive, or as having adopted or having shown a policy of advocating or approving the commission of acts of force or violence to deny others their rights under the Constitution of the United States, or as seeking to alter the form of government of the United States by unconstitutional means.

Each applicant or employee and spouse (if any) must review the following list of organizations for certification purposes, and sign on the last page.

Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Abraham Lincoln School, Chicago, Illinois
Action Committee to Free Spain Now
Alabama People's Educational Association (see Communist Political Association)
American Association for Reconstruction in Yugoslavia, Inc.
American Branch of the Federation of Greek Maritime Unions
American Christian Nationalist Party
American Committee for European Workers' Relief (see Socialist Workers Party)
American Committee for Spanish Freedom
American Committee for the Settlement of Jews in Birobidjan, Inc.
American Committee for Yugoslav Relief, Inc.
American Committee to Survey Labor Conditions in Europe
American Council for a Democratic Greece, formerly known as the Greek American Council; Greek American Committee for National Unity
American Council on Soviet Relations
American Croation Congress
American Jewish Labor Council
American League Against War and Fascism
American League for Peace and Democracy
American National Labor Party
American National Socialist League
American Nationalist Party
American Nationalist Party
American Patriots, Inc.
American Peace Crusade
American Peace Mobilization
American Poles for Peace
American Polish Labor Council
American Polish League
American Rescue Ship Mission (a project of the United American Spanish Aid Committee)
American-Russian Fraternal Society
American Russian Institute, New York, also known as the American Russian Institute for Cultural Relations with the Soviet Union
American Russian Institute, Philadelphia
American Russian Institute of San Francisco
American Russian Institute of Southern California, Los Angeles
American Slav Congress
American Women for Peace
American Youth Congress
American Youth for Democracy
Armenian Progressive League of America
Associated Klans of America
Association of Georgia Klans
Association of German Nationals (Reichsdeutsche Vereinigung) Ausland-Organisation der NSDAP. Overseas Branch of Nazi Party

Baltimore Forum
Benjamin Davis Freedom Committee
Black Dragon Society

Boston School for Marxist Studies, Boston, Massachusetts
Bridges-Robertson-Schmidt Defense Committee
Bulgarian American People's League of the United States of America

California Emergency Defense Committee
California Labor School, Inc. 321 Divisadero Street, San Francisco, California
Carpatho-Russian People's Society

Central Council of American Women of Croatian Descent, also known as Central Council of American Croatian Women, National Council of Croatian Women
Central Japanese Association (Beikoku Chuo Nipponjin Kai)
Central Japanese Association of Southern California
Central Organization of the German-American National Alliance (Leutschen-Amerikanische Einheitsfront)

Cervantes Fraternal Society
China Welfare Appeal, Inc.
China Cultural Center
Citizens Committee for Harry Bridges
Citizens Committee of the Upper West Side (New York City)
Citizens Committee to Free Earl Browder
Citizens Emergency Defense Conference
Citizens Protective League
Civil Liberties Sponsoring Committee of Pittsburgh
Civil Rights Congress and its affiliated organizations, including:

Civil Rights Congress for Texas
Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of New York
Civil Rights Congress for Texas (see Civil Rights Congress)
Columbians

Comite Coordinador Pro Republica Espanola
Comite Pro Derechos Civiles
Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy
Committee for Constitutional and Political Freedom
Committee for Nationalist Action
Committee for Peace and Brotherhood Festival in Philadelphia
Committee for the Defense of the Pittsburgh Six
Committee for the Negro in the Arts
Committee for the Protection of the Bill of Rights
Committee for World Youth Friendship and Cultural Exchange
Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland
Committee to Aid the Fighting South
Committee to Defend Marie Richardson
Committee to Defend the Right's and Freedom of Pittsburgh's Political Prisoners
Committee to Uphold the Bill of Rights
Commonwealth College, Mena, Arkansas
Communist Party. U. S. A., its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Communist Political Association, its subdivisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates, including:

Alabama People's Educational Association

Florida Press and Educational League

Oklahoma League for Political Education

People's Educational and Press Association of Texas

Virginia League for People's Education

Congress Against Discrimination

(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Congress of American Revolutionary Writers

Congress of American Women

Congress of the Unemployed

Connecticut Committee to Aid Victims of the Smith Act

Connecticut State Youth Conference

Council for Jobs, Relief and Housing

Council for Pan-American Democracy

Council of Greek Americans

Council on African Affairs

Croatian Benevolent Fraternity

Dai Nippon Butoku Kai (Military Virtue Society of Japan or Military Art Society of Japan)

Daily Worker Press Club

Dante's Defense Committee

Dante Alighieri Society (between 1935 and 1940)

Dennis Defense Committee

Detroit Youth Assembly

East Bay Peace Committee

Elsinore Progressive League

Emergency Conference to Save Spanish Refugees (founding body)

Everybody's Committee to Outlaw War

Families of the Baltimore Smith Act Victims

Families of the Smith Act Victims

Federation of Italian War Veterans in the U. S. A. Inc. (Associazione Nazionale Combattenti Italiani, Federazione degli Stati Uniti d'America)

Finnish-American Mutual Aid Society

Florida Press and Educational League (see Communist Political Association)

Frederick Douglass Educational Center

Freedom Stage, Inc.

Friends of the New Germany (Freunde des Neuen Deutschlands)

Friends of the Soviet Union

Garibaldi American Fraternal Society

George Washington Carver School, New York City

German-American Bund (Amerikadeutscher Volksbund)

German-American Republican League

German-American Vocational League (Deutsche-Amerikanische Berufsgemeinschaft)

Guanias Club

Harlem Trade Union Council

Hawaii Civil Liberties Committee

Heiminsha Kai, also known as Yokubei Heikei Okimusha Kai, Zaibei Kibocjin. Heiyaku Gimusha Kai, and Zaibei Hemusha Kai (Japanese Residing in America Military Conscripts Association)

Hellenic-American Brotherhood

Hinode Kai (Imperial Japanese Reservists)

Hinomaru Kai (Rising Sun Flag Society - a group of Japanese War Veterans)

Hokubei Zaigo Shoke Dan (North American Reserve Officers Association)

Hollywood Writers Mobilization for Defense

Hungarian-American Council for Democracy

Hungarian Brotherhood

Idaho Pension Union

Independent Party (Seattle, Washington)

(See Independent People's Party)

Independent People's Party

(See Independent Party)

Industrial Workers of the World

International Labor Defense

International Workers Order, its subdivisions, subsidiaries and affiliates

Japanese Association of America.

Japanese Overseas Central Society (Kaigai Dobo Chuo Kai)

Japanese Overseas Convention, Tokyo, Japan, 1940

Japanese Protective Association (Recruiting Organization)

Jefferson School of Social Science, New York City

Jewish Culture Society

Jewish People's Committee

Jewish People's Fraternal Order

Jikyoku linkai (The Committee for the Crisis)

Johnson-Forest Group

(See Johnsonites)

Johnsonites

(See Johnson-Forest Group)

Joint Anti-Fascist Refugee Committee

Joint Council of Progressive Italian-Americans, Inc.

Joseph Wedemeyer School of Social Science, St. Louis, Missouri

Kibei Seinen Kai (Association of U. S. Citizens of Japanese Ancestry who have returned to America after studying in Japan)

Knights of the White Camellia

Ku Klux Klan

Kythaeuser, also known as Kythaeuser League (Kyffhaeuser Bund), Kyffhaeuser Fellowship (Kyffhaeuser Kameradschaft)

Kyffhaeuser War Relief (Kyffhaeuser Kriegshilfswerk)

Labor Council for Negro Rights

Labor Research Association, Inc.

Labor Youth League

League for Common Sense

League of American Writers

Lictor Society (Italian Black Shirts)

Macedonian-American People's League

Mario Morgantini Circle

Maritime Labor Committee to Defend Al Lannon

Maryland Congress Against Discrimination

(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)

Massachusetts Committee for the Bill of Rights

Minute Women of the U. S. A., Inc.)

Maurice Braverman Defense Committee

Michigan Civil Rights Federation

Michigan Council for Peace

Michigan School of Social Science

Nanka Teikoku Gunyudan (Imperial Military Friends Group of Southern California War Veterans)

National Association of Mexican Americans (also known as Asociacion Nacional Mexico-Americana)

National Blue Star Mothers of America (not to be confused with the Blue Star Mothers of America organized in February 1942)

National Committee for Freedom of the Press

National Committee for the Defense of Political Prisoners

National Committee to Win Amnesty for Smith Act Victims

National Committee to Win the Peace

National Conference on American Policy in China and the Far East (a Conference called by the Committee for a Democratic Far Eastern Policy)

National Council of Americans of Croatian Descent

National Council of American-Soviet Friendship

National Federation for Constitutional Liberties

National Labor Conference for Peace

National Negro Congress

National Negro Labor Council

Nationalist Aruwa League


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

Nationalist Party of Puerto Rico
Nature Friends of America (since 1935).
Negro Labor Victory Committee
New Committee for Publications
Nichibei Kogyo Kaisha (The Great Fujii Theatre)
North American Committee to Aid Spanish Democracy
North American Spanish Aid Committee
North Philadelphia Forum
Northwest Japanese Association

Ohio School of Social Sciences
Oklahoma Committee to Defend Political Prisoners
Oklahoma League for Political Education (see Communist Political Association)
Original Southern Klans, Incorporated

Pacific Northwest Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Palo Alto Peace Club
Partido del Pueblo of Panama (operating in the Canal Zone)
Peace Information Center
Peace Movement of Ethiopia
People's Drama, Inc.
People's Educational and Press Association of Texas (see Communist Political Association)
People's Educational Association (Incorporated under name Los Angeles Educational Association, Inc.), also known as People's Education center
People's Institute of Applied Religion
People's Programs (Seattle, Washington)
People's Radio Foundation, Inc.
People's Rights Party
Philadelphia Labor Committee for Negro Rights
Philadelphia School of Social Science and Art
Photo League (New York City)
Pittsburgh Arts Club
Political Prisoners' Welfare Committee
Polonia Society of the IWO
Progressive German-Americans, also known as Progressive German Americans of Chicago
Proletarian Party of America
Protestant War Veterans of the United States, Inc.
Provisional Committee of Citizens for Peace, Southwest Area
Provisional Committee on Latin American Affairs
Provisional Committee to Abolish Discrimination in the State of Maryland
(See Committee to Abolish Discrimination in Maryland)
Puerto Rican Comite Pro Libertades Civiles (CLC)
(See Comite Pro Derechos Civiles)
Fuertorriquenos Unidos (Puerto Ricans United)

Quad City Committee for Peace
Queensbridge Tenants League

Revolutionary Workers League
Romazian-American Fraternal Society
Russian American Society, Inc.

Sakura Kai (Patriotic Society, or Cherry Association - composed of veterans of Russo-Japanese War)
Samuel Adams School, Boston, Massachusetts

Santa Barbara Peace Forum
Schappes Defense Committee
Schneiderman-Darcy Defense Committee
School of Jewish Studies, New York City
Seattle Labor School, Seattle, Washington
Serbian-American Fraternal Society
Serbian Vidovdan Council
Shinto Temples (limited to State Shinto; abolished in 1945)
Silver Shirt Legion of America
Slavic Council of Southern California
Slovak Workers Society
Slovenian-American National Council
Socialist Workers Party, including American Committee for European Workers' Relief
Sokoku Kai (Fatherland Society)
Southern Negro Youth Congress
Spriko Sha (Reserve Officers Association, Los Angeles)
Syracuse Women for Peace

Tom Paine School of Social Science, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Tom Paine School of Westchester, New York
Trade Union Committee for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Trade Unionists for Peace
(See Trade Unionists for Peace)
Tri-State Negro Trade Union Council

Ukrainian-American Fraternal Union
Union of American Croatians
Union of New York Veterans
United American Spanish Aid Committee
United Committee of Jewish Societies and Landsmanschaft Federations, also known as Coordination Committee of Jewish Landsmanschaften and Fraternal Organizations
United Committee of South Slavic Americans
United Defense Council of Southern California
United Harlem Tenants and Consumers Organization
United May Day Committee
United Negro and Allied Veterans of America

Veterans Against Discrimination of Civil Rights Congress of New York (see Civil Rights Congress)
Veterans of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade
Virginia League for People's Education (see Communist Political Association)
Voice of Freedom Committee

Walt Whitman School of Social Science, Newark, New Jersey
Washington Bookshop Association
Washington Committee for Democratic Action
Washington Committee to Defend the Bill of Rights
Washington Commonwealth Federation
Washington Pension Union
Wisconsin Conference on Social Legislation
Workers Alliance (since April 1936)

Yiddisher Kultur Farband
Young Communist League

Yugoslav-American Cooperative Home, Inc.
Yugoslav Seamen's Club, Inc.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# CERTIFICATION

I certify that I have read the names of the above listed organizains.
To the best of my knowledge and belier, I am not, nor bave I been a member of, combated to, received liter-
ature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meeting of any organizacion listed above, or any
organization outside the United States espousing Communist, Fascist, stalitarian or Nazi causes, except as noted
below.
To the best of my knowledge and belief, none of my close relatives are, nor have ever been members of, con-
tributed to, received literature from, signed petitions of or in behalf of, or attended meetings of any such organiza-
tions, except as noted below.

# INSTRUCTIONS

For the purpose of this certification, if an applicant or employee is completing this form, the term "close rela-
tive" will include spouse, children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, and cunts. "Close relatives" of the spouse, for
this purpose, will inchide children, parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, cre aunts.
If there are exceptions to this certification, set forth below under Eemarks all pertzent information concern-
ing the nature and extent of your activites or those of your close relatives in such cremations, including the
names of the organizations, dates of membership, meetings attendes, les of positions he'd, amounts and dates
of contributions, nature of petitions signed failing within the meaning of the above certification and circumstance:
thereof, titles and authors of literature receized, and dates on which recared.
In exceptions concerning relatives, include only such informatica presently known to you or available from
your own records.
If necessary, use additional sheets and sign each sheet. Write wore if there are no exceptions.

| REMARKS: To be completed by Spouse | REMARKS: To be completed by Applicant or Employee |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
|                                    |                                                   |
|                                    |                                                   |
|                                    |                                                   |
|                                    |                                                   |
|                                    |                                                   |
| *Illegible*                        | *Illegible*                                       |
|                                    |                                                   |


| Date     | Date    |
| -------- | ------- |
| 2-17-6.3 | 2-17-62 |

Signature of Spouse | Signature of Applicant or Employee
*Illegible* | *Illegible*

Address-City and State | Address-Cay and State
*Illegible* | *Illegible* CEL HINGLEVITE

Witness | Witness
*Illegible* | Dorothy J Kinnick

Address-City and State | Address-Cay and State
*Illegible* | Mexico D F Diation

-4-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)