# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO 96-3469532 SENSIND: RYBAT

SECRET FRP:

STAFF

ACTION: EUR/SEC (706) INFO: EUDORECORD, EUR/F, MDSX, ODPD, RYBAT, FILE, CIC/EUR (2/W)

96 3469532 ASR PAGE 001 IN 3469532

TOR: 121730Z MAR 96 PARI 97616

SECRET 1217262 MAR 96 STAFF

CITE PARIS 97616 (STIEGLER ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT EUR/SEC INFO EUR/F, CIC/EUR

SLUGS: WN-INTEL RYBAT

SUBJECT: POSTCARD RECEIVED BY AMBASSADOR_HARRIMAN

REF: NONE.

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE; FYI.

2. AMBASSADOR HARRIMAN RECENTLY RECEIVED A POSTCARD (POSTMARKED 22 FEB396) THROUGH THE APO FROM AN INDIVIDUAL IN MINNESOTA. ALTHOUGH THE AMBASSADOR'S NAME AND ADDRESS (U.S. EMBASSY PARIS C/O THE DEPARTMENT'S WASHINGTON ADDRESS) ARE HANDWRITTEN, THE ENTIRE MESSAGE ON THE BACK OF THE POSTCARD IS STAMPED. MESSAGE FOLLOWS:

BEGIN QUOTE:

*   THE CIA<ASSASSINATED PRESIDENT>
*   <KENNEDY>ON ORDERS FROM THE
    MILITARY-INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX HEADQUARTERED IN NEW YORK CITY. DAVID ROCKEFELLER IS "CHAIRMAN" OF THIS GROUP. WRITE HIM AT CHASE-MANHATTAN BANK, ONE CHASE PLAZA, NEW YORK CITY, 10005, AND HAVE A GOOD DAY!

END OF QUOTE

3. THE POSTCARD IS NOT SIGNED; INSTEAD IT HAS A PRINTED ADDRESS LABEL AFFIXED ON THE BACK WHICH READS:

H.H.D.

212 W. THOMPSON, APT. 303

W. ST. PAUL, MINN. 55118

4. FILE: NONE CL BY: 2161689 CL REASON: 1.5 (C) DECL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

PAGE: 2

SENSIND: RYBAT
MHFNO 96-3469532

ON: X1 DRV FROM: HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)