# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO 96-4491072
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 1

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

ACTION: EA/KNXO (158) INFO: AF/EXO, CIC/AF, EA/KCI, EADORECORD, MDSX, ODPD,
RYBAT, FILE, AF/OPS, AF/SG (3/W)

96 4491072 ASR
PAGE 001
IN 4491072
TOR: 181132Z JUN 96
HARE 71720

SECRET 181128Z JUN 96 STAFF

CITE HARARE 71720

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT EA/KNXO INFO EA/KCI, AF/SG, CIC/AF, AF/OPS

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT BRMODEL

SUBJECT: BRMODEL/1 CONTACT WITH DPRK LANGUAGE TRAINEE--MONEY, BOOTS, AND<ASSASSINATION>VIDEOS.

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: NONE, FYI.

2. DURING MEETINGS ON 13/14 JUNE, BRMODEL/1 (M/1) RELATED TO IOO BALLANGER SEVERAL FASCINATING TIDBITS ABOUT NORTH KOREAN LANGUAGE TRAINEE ((LI)) SONG-AN (SUBJ), WHO CONTINUES TO SEEK REGULAR CONTACT WITH M/1. SUBJ IS STILL SELLING CIGARETTES AND BOOZE TO M/1'S FRIEND, (FNU) ((CHIKOMBE)), WHO RUNS THE ROSE AND CROWN NIGHTCLUB IN HATFIELD. M/1 CHARACTERIZED HIS RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJ AS ONE OF DEEP TRUST, ALTHOUGH M/1 SAID HE IS AWARE THAT THERE ARE STILL LIMITS TO WHAT HE CAN ASK SUBJ. LI WANTS M/1 TO LOAN HIM ZD 1,200 TO HELP MAKE HIS MONTHLY INCOME QUOTA FOR THE EMBASSY. IOO GAVE M/1 ZD 1,000/(ABOUT-US$100)~FOR PASSAGE TO SUBJ-AND TOLD M/1 TO MAKE SURE SUBJ KNOWS THERE IS QUID PRO QUO INVOLVED IN THE "LOAN."

3. SUBJ HAS MADE SEVERAL REQUESTS TO M/1 FOR PERSONAL ITEMS INCLUDING SIZE, EIGHT COWBOY_BOOTS? MOST INTRIGUINGLY, SUBJ HAS *REQUESTED THAT M/T PROVIDE HIM WITH VIDEO OF<ASSASSINATIONS>OF *FOREIGN LEADERS, PARTICULARLY THE<JFK ASSASSINATION. TOO COACHED M/1*TO FIND OUT WHY SUBJ REALLY WANTS VIDEOS ON ASSASSINATIONS,>AND TOLD M/1 THAT-DUE TO THE POSSIBLE RAMIFICATIONS-ENWBOLTOND WOULD PROBABLY NOT BE ABLE TO PROVIDE THEM.

4. M/1 SAYS THAT SUBJ HAS CONFIDED HE IS ALSO AS A MEMBER OF AP "PROTECTION UNIT," AND M/1/ BELIEVES THIS IS BEHIND HIS REQUEST FOR VIDEOS OF<ASSASSINATIONS.> <M/1 NOTED THAT HE TELLS SUBJ THAT HE WORKS IN A PROTECTION UNIT (VICE BRCHIPPER), ALTHOUGH THE NORTH KOREANS IN THE PAST HAVE TREATED M/1 AS A BRCHIPPER OFFICER, DESPITE HIS DENIALSM/1_GUESSED THAT THIS MAY BE A WAY FOR SUBJ TO LET HIS SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-4491072

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE: 2

IOO ASKED M/1 TO PUSH COVER SLIP, WHILE STILL MAINTAINING A FIGLEAF. SUBJ ON THIS ISSUE AND DISCUSS M/1'S TRAINING IN NORTH KOREA IN ORDER TO ELICIT MORE INFO ON SUBJ'S (PROBABLE INTEL) BACKGROUND.

5. ALSO, ON THE SUBJECT OF VIP PROTECTION, SUBJ CLAIMED TO M/1 THAT HE MET PRESIDENT ROBERT ((MUGABE)) DURING A VISIT MUGABE REPORTEDLY MADE TO THE NORTH KOREAN EMBASSY TO INVITE THE DEAR LEADER ((KIM)) CHONG IL TO THE WORLD SOLAR SUMMIT. (STATION NOTE: MUGABE DOES NOT VISIT EMBASSIES AS A RULE, AND THIS IS PROBABLY AN INSTANCE OF SUBJ INFLATING HIS--AND HIS COUNTRY'S--IMPORTANCE.

6. CL BY 2198002. CL REASON 1.5(C). DECL ON: X1.

7. FILE: BRMODEL/1 DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)