2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

OCC-96-086
19 NOV 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:
John Pereira
Historical Review Group

FROM:
Linda A. Jasper
Deputy Chief, Office of Central Cover.

SUBJECT:
Response to Questions Posed by the John F. Kennedy Assassination Review Board

1. During the OCC briefing of the John F. Kennedy Assassination Review Board on 16 October 1996, members of the Board asked three questions to which OCC said it would respond after additional research. Following are the questions and the responses:

a. How many real businesses or contrived facilities in the commercial cover program are connected to the publications industry? Response: A few real businesses are loosely connected with the publications industry, and the names of a few contrived facilities could be perceived as being associated.

b. How many companies participated in the commercial cover program in the 1960s, and how many participate today? Response: Approximately 500 companies participated in the commercial cover program in the 1960s, and circa 1,800 are currently in the program.

ALL PORTIONS OF
THIS DOCUMENT ARE
CLASSIFIED SECRET

SECRET

CL BY 0523550
REASON 1.5(c)
DECL X1; 12 November 2021
DRV COV 2-87


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

SUBJECT: Response to Questions Posed by the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Review Board

c. Could a copy of the secrecy agreement which is signed by
company officials participating in the commercial cover program
be made available, and has it changed since the 1960s? Response:
Attached is a copy of the secrecy agreement used from 1955 to
1988 and a copy of the agreement used from 1988 to the present.
The only difference is an addendum on the reverse which was added
in 1991 pursuant to the Treasury, Postal Service and General
Government Appropriations Act of 1991.

2. This memorandum and its attachments are for background
   information only and must be returned to the Central Intelligence
   Agency after review by the John F. Kennedy Assassination Review
   Board.

Linda A. Jasper

Attachment:
as stated

cc: Fredrick Wickham, IMS

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

SUBJECT: Response to Questions Posed by the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Review Board

DC/OCC(lh/Ljasper, 32435 18Nov96 file:jfkboard)

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee

1 - DC/OCC (Ljasper)

1 - His. Review Board (BHarrelson)

1 - OCC/EXO (EMathias)

1 - OGC (Ciprinai)

3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRECY AGREEMENT

1.  I acknowledge the fact that because of the confidential relationship between myself and the U.S. Government, I will be the recipient of information which, in itself, or by the implications to be drawn therefrom, will be such that its unlawful disclosure or loose handling may adversely affect the interest and the security of the United States. I realize that the methods of collecting and of using this information, as well as the identity of persons involved, are as secret as the substantive information itself and, therefore, must be treated by me with an equal degree of secrecy.

2.  I shall always recognize that the U.S. Government has the sole interest in all information which I or my organization may possess, compile or acquire pursuant to this understanding. No advantage or gain will be sought by me as a result of the added significance or value such information may have, due to the Government's interest in it.

3.  I solemnly pledge my word that I will never divulge, publish, nor reveal either by word, conduct, or by any other means such information or knowledge, as indicated above, unless specifically authorized to do so, by the U.S. Government.

4.  Nothing in this understanding is to be taken as imposing any restriction upon the normal business practices of myself or my organization: i.e., information normally possessed by us or gathered in the regular course of business will continue to be utilized in accordance with our normal practices.

SIGNATURE:

REPRESENTATIVE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT

DATE

SIGNATURE:

ORGANIZATION

DATE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRECY AGREEMENT

1. I acknowledge the fact that because of the confidential relationship between myself and the U.S. Government, I will be the recipient of information which, in itself, or by the implications to be drawn therefrom, will be such that its unlawful disclosure or loose handling may adversely affect the interest and the security of the United States. I realize that the methods of collecting and of using this information, as well as the identity of persons involved, are as secret as the substantive information itself and, therefore, must be treated by me with an equal degree of secrecy.

2. I shall always recognize that the U.S. Government has the sole interest in all information which I or my organization may possess, compile or acquire pursuant to this understanding. No advantage or gain will be sought by me as a result of the added significance or value. such information may have, due to the Government's interest in it.

3. I solemnly pledge my word that I will never divulge, publish, nor reveal either by word, conduct, or by any other means such information or knowledge, as indicated above, unless specifically authorized to do so, by the U.S. Government.

4. Nothing in this understanding is to be taken as imposing any restriction upon the normal business practices of myself or my organization: i.e., information normally possessed by us or gathered in the regular course of business will continue to be utilized in accordance with our normal practices.

SIGNATURE:

REPRESENTATIVE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT

DATE

SIGNATURE

ORGANIZATION

DATE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# ADDENDUM

Pursuant to the Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act of 1991, the following language shall be incorporated into and considered a part of the attached nondisclosure agreement:

"These restrictions are consistent with and do not supersede conflict with or otherwise alter the employee obligations rights or liabilities created by Executive Order 12356; section 7211 of title 5, United States Code (governing disclosures to Congress); section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by the Military Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosure to Congress by members of the military); section 2302(b)(8) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by the Whistleblower Protection Act (governing disclosures of illegality, waste, fraud, abuse or public health or safety threats); the Inteliigence Identities Protection Act of 1982 (50 USC 421 et seq.)(gov disclosures that could expose confidential Government agents), and the statutes which protect against disclosure that may compromise the national security, including section. 641,793,794, 798, and 952 of title 18, United States Code, and section 4(b) of the Subversive Activities Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. section 783(b)). The definitions, requirements, obligations, rights, sanctions and liabilities created by said Executive Order and listed statutes are incorporated into this Agreement and are controling."


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)