# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-2349364

SENSIND:

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

PAGE: 1

CONF: C/OCC INFO: C/ORMS, D/OGC, EA/TIB, LIMITO, MDSX, OCC/OSG, ODPD, OGC/LD, FILE, C/PCS (2/P)

95 2349364 ASP PAGE 001 TOT: 202257Z NOV 95 DIRECTOR 534168

SECRET

STAFF TO: PRIORITY BANGKOK. 202257Z DIRECTOR 534168

FROM: LIMIT CHIEF/OCC INFO OCC/OSG, CHIEF/PCS, OGC/LD, OGC/OFLD, EA/TIB

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR STATION ASSISTANCE

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: REQUEST STATION CONTACT FORMER EMPLOYEE WHO RETIRED UNDER COVER AND RESIDES IN BANGKOK.

* 2. BASED ON OUR COMPLIANCE WITH PRESIDENT<JFK ASSASSINATION> RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992, HQS REQUESTS (STATION'S) ASSISTANCE IN DELIVERING INFORMATION INCLUDED BETWEEN TEAR LINES TO IDEN.

LINE- -TEAR

NOVEMBER 20, 1995

DEAR COLLEAGUE:

PLEASE BE AWARE THAT YOUR NAME APPEARS IN DOCUMENTS THAT ARE BEING REVIEWED FOR RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC UNDER PUBLIC LAW 102-526 *OF 26 OCTOBER 1992, THE PRESIDENT<JOHN>F. <KENNEDY ASSASSINATION> RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992. THIS MANDATES THE PUBLIC RELEASE OF ALL INFORMATION IN THESE DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING YOUR NAME WHERE IT APPEARS, UNLESS THE ORIGINATING AGENCY CAN PROVE BY CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE TO A PRESIDENTIALLY-APPOINTED BOARD THAT ONE OR MORE LIMITED EXCEPTIONS APPLY. EVEN THEN, THE RELEASE OF THE INFORMATION MAY ONLY BE POSTPONED FOR NO MORE THAN 25 YEARS. THE ACT IS VERY PRO-RELEASE AND REQUIRES A BALANCING OF THE PUBLIC INTEREST.

UNDER THE BOARD'S INTERPRETATON OF THE ACT, YOUR NAME CANNOT BE REDACTED FROM THE DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED UNLESS WE CAN PROVIDE EVIDENCE THAT THIS RELEASE WOULD POSE A CREDIBLE THREAT TO YOU PERSONALLY, YOUR FAMILY, OR ANY SENSITIVE ACTIVITY OR SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-2349364                                                                                                                                    PAGE: 2
SENSIND: SECRET

PERSON(S) YOU MAY HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH IN THE PAST. IF YOU
BELIEVE THAT ANY OF THESE CONCERNS WOULD BE RAISED FROM THE PUBLIC
RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, PLEASE CONTACT BERT MILLS) AT (703) 356-0285
OR 1-800-447-2211, YOU WILL NEED TO PROVIDE THE PERTINENT DETAILS
SO THAT A COMPELLING CASE CAN BE PRESENTED TO THE BOARD. IF THE
BOARD ORDERS THE RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, ITS RULING CAN BE REVERSED
ONLY BY THE PRESIDENT. BECAUSE THE BOARD MUST COVER HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOCUMENTS IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS, IT WILL BE
CONSIDERING DOCUMENTS AT AN ACCELERATING PACE AND WE CANNOT
PROJECT WHEN IT MAY REVIEW A DOCUMENT CONTAINING YOUR NAME.
THEREFORE PLEASE CONTACT ME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE IF APPROPRIATE.

SINCERELY,
(SIGNED BERT MILLS)


LINE- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -TEAR

2. CHOS WOULD PREFER THAT IDEN PASS RESPONSE TO STATION
   OFFICER FOR FORWARDING TO HQS VIA THIS CHANNEL. APPRECIATE
   STATION'S ASSISTANCE.

3. CL REASON: 1.5 (C) DECL ON: X1 DRV FROM: COV 2-87
   FILE: 785-120-034. DECL QADR DRV COV 2-87.>

RELNO: E283629

ORIG: OCC/OSG (MATHIAS, 37076); AUTH: OCC/OSG (BURGGRAF); INFO:
CHIEF/PCS (MASSENGALE), OGC/LD (EATINGER), OGC/OFLD (CRAWFORD);
REL: EA/TIB (AHR). CL BY 0489932.

END OF MESSAGE


SECRET


SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)