# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, WOMUSE

FROM:
Chief of Station, Nairobi

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET/RYBAT

SUBJECT:
RYBAT/MHCURB/MHCHAOS - Vida Mae GAYNOR (201-867508)

ACTION: File in Subject's. 201

1. The following information on the Subject of 201-867508 was obtained by TOPOWL/1 who hosted her at his home in mid-April 1971: Subject has been in Tanzania for 20 months. She expects to remain there permanently. She is employed by the GOT as an assistant to the Deputy Chief Accountant for the National Development Corporation. She expects to be promoted to the post of Deputy Chief Accountant on the first of May when her present boss is himself advanced. She claims to receive a "good" salary plus a TS 2500/month house for which she has to pay only 10% with the GOT picking up the rest.

2. Subject grew up in Queens, New York, where she was very active in the African-Methodist-Episcopal Church where she met her husband 25 years ago. She didn't finish high school but was a good typist and easily found employment "with the New York Jews who realized they could hire a good black secretary for 2/3 what they'd have to pay a white." She was always active in social causes, anti-war demonstrations, civil rights movements, and was active in CORE in 1966. She was a staunch admirer of Malcom X and attended his funeral with Mrs. Martin Luther King.

3. Subject was a member of the Jamaica Rifle Club, an organization created to teach Afro-Americans to shoot rifles. She claims to have "fingered" two "infiltrators" who had been recruited by the authorities to penetrate the organization. She claims that her instructor was another infiltrator who eventually testified in court, causing the organization to be "busted."

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - C/WOMUSE

(AKNA-6275

30 April 1971


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4. Subject has two sons. One, named Dennis (age 20), has joined her in Dar es Salaam after she set up a mechanism to help him evade the draft and depart the country illegally. She has another son who is 26 years of age who spent two years in the Army. He had been promised educational opportunities by the recruiter. When denied these he studied abnormal psych extensively and tried to feign mental illness, but was instead put up for Court Martial for malingering. A friend of Subject, the founder of the "Serviceman's Union" helped spring the son.

5. Subject provides a home in Dar es Salaam for Daniel Finley a 26-year-old son of a prominent electrical contractor in Dayton, Ohio. After avoiding his draft call--when his father couldn't buy it off--he was jailed, but released on bail. He jumped bail and was put on a plane for Dar with a note to President Nyerere to "...take care of my son." He's been in Dar for two years. He has had three audiences with the President at which he has presented Nyerere with prototype lathes and guns which he has himself produced in the technical school where he teaches. He has promised to have a prototype of an M-16 ready for display at an upcoming trade and industrial fair.

6. Subject provides housing and contacts for Afro-Americans coming to Dar es Salaam. 02(10POWL/1 describes her political attitudes as "...similar to a religious convert--more radical than the radicals." She claims to be frustrated with the slowness of the revolution in Tanzania suggesting that experts from China and North Korea are needed, not those from the West.

Burton L. KORADE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)