2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Mitchell Livingston WER BELL III

FROM:
Nestor D. Sanchez
Acting Chief
Latin America Division

EXTENSION 1884
DATE 3 MAR 1976

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                   | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED  | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across cross column after each comment) |
| ----------------- | ------------- | ---------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| ADDO              |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 7E26              |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 2.                |               | 3 MAR 1976 |                    | RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce                                                           |
| 3.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| DDO               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 5.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| Associate General |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| Counsel, OGC 7D01 |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 6.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 7.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 8.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 9.                |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 10.               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 11.               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 12.               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 13.               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 14.               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |
| 15.               |               |            |                    |                                                                                                              |

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DD/86-1261

OGC 76-1072
3/5/76

3 MAR 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Associate General Counsel, OGC

VIA : Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT : Mitchell Livingston WER BELL III

REFERENCE : Your memorandum of 24 February 1976, Subject as above

1. Per reference request, we are forwarding information in our files concerning contacts that have taken place between this Agency and WER BELL.

2. The following is a summary of all DDO contact directly with WER BELL which took place in 1959:

a. A 6 July 1959 Memorandum to C/WH Division signed by (Thomas J. Flores) stated that General Cabell called (Flores) to report that WER BELL had called him. WER BELL discussed with General Cabell a trip WER BELL had taken to the Dominican Republic and offered to come to Washington at his own expense to discuss the trip. No commitments were made to WER BELL by General Cabell.

b. A 7 July 1959 Memorandum of Conversation signed by (T. J. Flores) stated that WER BELL was met in Washington, D.C., by Flores who discussed with WER BELL information Concerning the Dominican Republic, Fidel Castro, Fulgencio Batista and General Pedraza.

c. A 8 July 1959 Memorandum of Conversation signed by (T. J. Flores) stated that on 8 July 1959 (Flores called WER BELL to set up an appointment. During the meeting, WER BELL was told that the United States would not support any revolutionary activities by General Pedraza. He was also told that the U.S. will observe its international obligations concerning Cuba and Pedraza, and that


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

-2-

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

the U.S. would not overlook any violations by Pedraza or his followers of the neutrality laws. 03(Flores) said that the Agency had some interest in the possibility of his (WER BELL's) working for us as an intelligence gatherer under terms to be negotiated after we obtained a security clearance on him.03(Flores) pointed out that the Agency was not attempting to limit his actions in connection with the Dominican Republic, nor was it assuming any responsibility for those matters he carried out in his own behalf. (Flores) dictated a Secrecy Agreement to him and had him sign it.

d. A 9 July 1959 Memorandum for the Record signed by(T. J. Flores) reported that Subject called him on 9 July 1959 from New York. WER BELL gave(Flores) further information on Loos, fnu, the representative of a Colonel Frei, fnu, of the Swiss army who had 1,000 men available for duty as soldiers.

e. A 20 July 1959 Memorandum for the Record signed by(T. J. Flores) reported that WER BELL called Flores) from Miami on 20 July to ask about the Agency picking up the tab for his forthcoming trip to the Dominican Republic. They discussed his clearance which had not come through.

f. A 3 August 1959 Memorandum for the Record signed by Martha R. Tharpe reported that on 24 July 19593 WER BELL called for Mr. (Thomas J.3 Flores Since (Flores was on leave, Tharpe took the cal1. WER BELL gave Tharpe further infor- mation concerning Pedraza and Batista. Tharpe called WER BELL back that evening to tell him that if he obtained further information to report it to Mr. Justin Gleichauf, 00 Contacts Representative in Miami, until Mr. (Flores) returned to Washington.

g. A 503August 1959 Memorandum for the Record signed by(T. J. Flores) stated that WER BELL phoned him on 5 August 1959 to ask if there was any news on his clearance. WER BELL said he wanted to go to the Dominican Republic soon, and would like CIA to pick up his expenses. He was told there was no


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

-3-

news. (Flores) and WER BELL discussed the Dominican
Republic and Cuba. On 3 August (Flores) phoned
WER BELL and told him that his clearance had not
been granted and that he should not predicate his
activities on the expectation of the clearance at
any given time. WER BELL said that the Pedraza
group was air lifting and dropping material into
Cuba.

h. A 9 September 1959 Memorandum for the
Record signed by (T. J. Flores) reported that
WER BELL called (Flores) on 9 September 1959 to
provide information on Cuba. He was told by
(Flores) that his clearance had not yet been
processed.

i. According to a 23 September 1959
Memorandum for the Record signed by (T. J. Flores)
WER BELL called (Flores) on 9 September 1959 to
ask if his clearance had come through since
he wanted the Agency to finance his trip to
the Dominican Republic. He was told it had
not. WER BELL told (Flores) about some people
who had been discussing the counterfeiting
of U. S. dollars and Cuban pesos for use in
connection with Cuban revolutionary activities.
He was told by (Flores) to contact the FBI. On
13 September WER BELL had phoned (Flores) at home
to say that the FBI had referred him to the
Secret Service on the counterfeiting aspect,
and that no one seemed particularly interested
in the gun running. The Secret Service asked
him to go to Miami at his own expense to obtain
further information on the matter and WER BELL
asked (Flores) advice. (Flores) said that he could
not influence him one way or the other since he
was not in a position to direct his activities,
but felt he might be better off to take no action.
He was told that (Flores) would be in touch with
him as soon as he had any further information
concerning our possible use of him.

j. A 13 October 1959 Memorandum for the
Record signed by Thomas J. Flores) states that
WER BELL phoned him on 25 September 1959 to report
on Cuba. On 2 October 1959 (Flores) talked with
WER BELL by phone and terminated the relationship.

3. The following undated memorandums are also contained in
   WER BELL's file:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

-4-

03 a. A Memorandum for the Record signed by
(T. Flores) reports that WER BELL called (Flores) on
13 August 1959 to discuss Cuban activities in Miami. RETURN TO CIA
This memorandum also records that WER BELL phoned
(Flores) again on 26 August 1959 at which time activities in
the Dominican Republic and Cuban activities in
Miami were discussed. WER BELL also asked about the
status of his clearance, and was told it had not yet
come through.

03
b. A letter signed "W" addressed to ("Tom")
gave "W's" location and some information concerning
Batista and Castro. (This letter is probably in
the 1959 time frame.)

03 c. A Memorandum of Conversation signed by
(T. Flores) reports that WER BELL called (Flores) and
gave his location. The status of WER BELL's
clearance was discussed and (Flores) told him it
had not yet come through. WER BELL gave (Flores)
some information concerning Batista. (This
memorandum probably is in the 1959 time frame.)

d. An unsigned report, apparently from
WER BELL, gave a summary of his contacts and
activities during a trip to the Dominican Republic.
(This report is probably in the 1959 time frame.)

4.  A 17 December 1963 dispatch from Station Santo Domingo
    reported that Station (NOC Officer Joseph Luna) recently met
    WER BELL in Santo Domingo. No further details of the meeting
    were reported.

5.  According to the CS file on WER BELL, three former
    Agency employees were contacted in 1974 by WER BELL and other
    representatives of a group called "Friends of Abaco (FOA),
    a group allegedly advocating the secession of the island of
    Abaco from the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. The three former
    employees contacted are:

a. John Patrick Muldoon, retired from
CIA on 20 March 1972.

03
b. Theodore John Roussos), retired from CIA
on 31 July 1970. He was rehired on a
contract in February 1971. His contract
was terminated in September 1973.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

-5-

c. Walter Joseph Mackem, separated from CIA on 31 October 1973.

6. Mr. Muldoon contacted Agency employee (E. James 03
   McTighe) on 22 May 1974. Mr. Muldoon told Mr. McTighe
   that he was nominal Vice President of a Washington-based
   firm called "Security Consultants International." He presented
   Mr. McTighe with a report containing the essential data he
   possessed concerning WER BELL and other members of FOA whom
   he had met on 17 and 20 May 1974 in Washington, D.C. According
   to Mr. Muldoon, WER BELL had hopes of establishing gaming
   casinos, hotel and other tourist facilities in Abaco catering
   to the U. S. tourist crowd. As a consequence of some run-in
   with Prime Minister Pindling of the Bahamas, however, WER BELL
   is apparently *persona non grata* in the Bahamas; hence his
   ambitions appeared to be contingent on Abacan independence.
   Mr. Muldoon reported that at least on two occasions WER BELL
   made a concerted effort to involve persons formerly affiliated
   with the Agency in the activities of the FOA in support of
   its independence. On several occasions, WER BELL introduced
   Mr. Muldoon and Mr.03(Roussos) as active Agency officials, implying
   that either the Agency or the United States Government supported
   the aims of the FOA. WER BELL also proposed to Messrs. Muldoon
   and (Roussos) in separate conversations that they conduct a study,
   involving a visit to Abaco, to determine the feasibility of
   Abaco's independence in political and economic terms. The
   study was to include interviews with citizens of Abaco prior
   to an alleged "plebiscite" on independence to take place in
   Abaco on 28 June 1974.03 In default of the collaboration of
   either Muldoon or (Roussos) WER BELL hired Mr. Walter Joseph
   Mackem, a former Agency friend of both Muldoon and (Roussos)03
   According to WER BELL's file, Mackem later in 1974 contacted
   the Agency in an attempt to get an official policy on the
   activities of the FOA. Mackem was informed that the case
   comes under FBI jurisdiction, that this Agency has no official
   involvement, and that all information we had on the matter had
   been made available to the FBI. He was advised at that time
   to report his contacts and any information he had to the FBI.

7. On 24 March 1975, Mr. (Joseph P. Hayes) assigned to
   SE/PCH, reported that during the week of 9 March 1975, he
   talked with Mr. Wesley Dyckman. Mr. Dyckman is a former Agency
   employee employed by the Drug Enforcement Agency. According
   to Dyckman, former Agency employee Walter Mackem was employed
   in the Washington area as a private investigator. He is also
   involved with a paramilitary activity funded by some unnamed
   British source. The activity, which Dyckman referred to as


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

-6-

"the new land project" sought to establish a tax shelter on
one of the out-islands of the Caribbean by forcefully taking
over the island and establishing a government there. Mackem
is supposedly involved in the paramilitary training of forces
who would participate in this adventure. According to Dyckman,
the paramilitary training supposedly was to take place in
Georgia, where WER BELL is based.

8. On 31 August 1974, Mr. (Roussos) met with Mr. K. Michael
   Absher, who at that time was AC/E/GC, and told him that
   WER BELL was leaving for Athens on 31 August to sell arms to
   the Greek Government. WER BELL wanted Roussos to be his
   advisor in this venture and to go to Athens[^3] (Roussos) told
   WER BELL that he would check with CIA before giving him an answer.
   WER BELL asked (Roussos) to see if the Agency was in favor of
   such an arms deal or not. Mr. Absher strongly advised against
   (Roussos)[^63] getting involved in this deal[^3]. (Roussos) told Mr. Absher
   that he understood and agreed not to get involved. (Roussos)[^3]
   said that WER BELL would probably call him from Athens and he
   would give WER BELL a final negative reply.

9. On 22 July 1974, the FBI reported that WER BELL may
   be in possession of a one-line note from former CIA Director、
   William Colby stemming from a chance meeting with the Director
   at an OSS alumni dinner, reading something like "Good to see
   you again." This note was apparently used by WER BELL to
   suggest that he and Mr. Colby were good friends. This infor-
   mation was passed on to Mr. Colby on 9 August 1974.

10. According to reporting from several Stations, WER BELL
    and Arthur L. Smith (a cohort of WER BELL's) were in several
    Central American countries during August and early September
1962. Their principal activity appeared to be contacting
      officials of the governments of Guatemala, Nicaragua, and
      El Salvador for the purpose of obtaining recognition of a
      de facto Cuban Government in exile called the "United
      Organization for the Liberation of Cuba." In discussions with
      Nicaraguan Government representatives, WER BELL claimed the
      proposed Cuban Government in exile had the support of 90
      separate Cuban exile organizations and 186,000 Cuban exiles.
      WER BELL offered a representative tative of the Nica Nicaraguan Government
      100,000 to obtain that government's recognition of the Cuban
      Government in exile. The group claimed to have its headquarters
      at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, NW, in Washington, D.C. While in
      Guatemala, Smith claimed that the group had a man in the
      Department of State in Washington, D.C., whom they pay $6,000
      per year "to keep them advised."

[^3]: [^63]:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

11. In December 1965 WER BELL contacted a Miami DCD
    asset and told him that he and six Cuban exiles in the U. S.
    had organized a group, including approximately 20 Cubans
    inside Cuba, to perform a commando operation in Cuba during
    early January 1966., Their primary mission was the assassination
    of Fidel Castro, with the secondary mission of blowing up the
    generators that supply electricity to Havana, Cuba. WER BELL,
    at the time, stated that he was trying to get a "green light"
    from CIA to proceed with the mission, and inferred that the
    mission would be called off if such approval was not obtained.

12. On 7 February 1966 the Miami office of the FBI
    reported that WER BELL had been in contact with various news
    agencies concerning an alleged plan to assassinate Fidel Castro,
    and reportedly also had discussed the plan with Mr. Richard
    Phillips, Public Affairs Officer, Department of State, Washington,
    D.C. WER BELL claimed to have a group of some 500 men infiltrated
    into Cuba and said that they were ready for action to overthrow
    the regime immediately following the assassination of Castro.
    According to the FBI, WER BELL gave the impression that he is
    acquainted with many high government officials, both in the U. S.
    and other countries, and implied that his assassination plan
    had been approved by CIA.

13. According to a memorandum in WER BELL's file, on 7
    February 1968, one Bruce Arman Baker telephoned an employee
    of this Agency and said he had been in contact with WER BELL.
    Mr. Baker said that WER BELL was in the weapons manufacturing
    business and delivered them by air throughout the world.
    Mr. Baker said that he understood that WER BELL does this for
    CIA. Mr. Baker said that he understood from WER BELL that he
    would have to get a CIA security clearance to fly for WER BELL.
    Baker said that he was afraid that his past smuggling record
    might keep him from getting a CIA clearance.

14. WER BELL came to the attention of the(Bangkok Station)
    in early 1969 when he went to Thailand representing himself
    as Vice President of Sionics, Atlanta, Georgia. He described
    himself as a counterinsurgency expert, had a variety of weapons
    to display, claimed to be a retired colonel, and introduced
    himself at a local nightclub as Chief of CIA in Thailand.
    WER BELL attempted to sell arms to the Thais and also to a
    variety of U. S. military elements?(Station Bangkok) passed
    the gist of his reputation to key personalities in the U. S.
    mission and the Thai Government stressing that he was not
    sponsored in any way by the U. S. Government.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

-8-

✓ RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

15. WER BELL was also the subject of two memorandum signed by Lawrence R. Houston. Mr. Houston, answering a request from Joseph J. Liebling, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, on 23 February 1971, denied WER BELL's alleged affiliation with the CIA. On 28 October 1971, Mr. Houston wrote Mr. David H. Henretta, Jr., of the Industrial Security Clearance Review Division, to return notarized Interrogatories previously sent by Mr. Henretta.

16. We have no information on Colonel Bayard except news articles reporting his death which were forwarded by the FBI.

17. Per your request, we have sent instructions to the LA/Miami Station that there should be no contact with WER BELL.

![signature of Nestor D. Sanchez]
Nestor D. Sanchez
Acting Chief
Latin America Division

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012913


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)