2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1 October 1963

NOTES FOR MR. McCONE:

1. DDP has prepared for your information a summary of General Chiang Ching-kuo's visit to the U.S. Attached to this summary are the four most important papers as follows:

a. Your position paper;
b. CIA commitments paper;
c. Memorandum for the record on DDP briefings;
d. Record of conversation with the President.

The visit is considered to have been a success and Chiang Ching-kuo returned with an understanding that any abrupt move by his government to recover the mainland with military force would not be supported by this country. Chiang Kai-shek has accepted the position paper and CIA's commitments paper, and our station is now working out cooperation on intelligence and operational activities against the mainland.

2. In commenting on the proposal to send Dr. Cavanagh to Rome, Bill Harvey suggests that Cavanagh be certified to the Vatican as your personal representative, and suggests you might do this through Cardinal Cicognani or Archbishop O'Connor. Request your guidance.

3. DDP has run another assessment of the reliability of the documentary material provided by Penkovskiy and see no reason to change their statement of 31 May to USIB that it was "a most serious penetration of Soviet officialdom and one that will hurt them for years to come". Helms suggests you have this assessment checked with DDI and OSI and if they concur, re-assure USIB along the above lines.

4. Dez FitGerald briefed the Joint Chiefs recently on his overall program against Cuba. In the discussion the main thing that emerged was General LeMay's view that the present program was far too small to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

overthrow Castro. General LeMay wondered why we did not use bombings. There was also a discussion of Navy and Air Force programs to protect raiders in international waters and in the event of hot pursuit. It was agreed that further planning would be conducted.

5. John Warner has reviewed the record of recent congressional debates on the test ban treaty and finds 13 senators made reference to you. No one criticized you. Senators Pastore, Humphrey, and Anderson praised you.

6. John Warner has prepared a recommendation based on his reading that our standing in Congress is currently on the decline. He suggests that you meet privately with such members as Russell, Saltonstall, Vinson, and Arends to seek advice and develop a strategy for public statements by these members and other Subcommittee members.

7. Mr. Kirkpatrick has forwarded a memorandum on efforts to obtain a replacement for Colonel Grogan.

8. Dick Helms has forwarded a memorandum of his briefing of the Bureau of Budget officials on the Agency's covert action programs. McGeorge Bundy attended and offered 2 opinions: (a) that there be a regular annual briefing of the Special Group on covert operations as a whole, and (b) that during the present period of apparent detente there might well be very good reasons for investing even greater resources in covert actions.

9. John Bross has forwarded a memorandum for the record on your meeting with Generals Carter, Blake, and Carroll about personnel security. Bross is presently drafting a memorandum to the Secretary of Defense on this subject which is being reviewed by Houston and Bannerman.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

10. Mr. Gilpatric has written you a letter confirming His conversation about assigning Frank Hand as Special Assistant to General Carroll. I suggest I pass this to General Carter for Agency action.

W. Elder


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)