# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM.
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1999

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: DCI Meeting with Chairman Boland of HPSCI, 5 Dec. 1978

At the Director's request, he met with Chairman Boland accompanied by the Legislative Counsel in the HPSCI offices. He asked to brief the Chairman alone on two private matters.

1. With respect to the first, the Kampiles Case, the DCI informed Chairman Boland of the sensitive source information involved in the case after the Chairman indicated that he was interested in this information. The DCI reminded Chairman Boland that the DDCI had offered to brief him when the Kampiles Case first broke but that the Chairman had not deemed it necessary to receive the information at that time. After the communication, Chairman Boland agreed with the DCI that it might be best not to brief Mr. Mazzoli or other Members of the Committee. The DCI informed the Chairman that he might have some personal difficulty with Mr. Mazzoli on the question during his first appearance in the New Year, but it was agreed that the DCI would be able to make his explanations. ( S)

2. The DCI briefed Chairman Boland on a personal matter and indicated that he had briefed Chairman Bayh on the same question. (C)

3. Messrs Latimer and O'Neil joined the meeting at this point. The DCI discussed the Iranian situation, the alleged intelligence failure and the hand-written memo from the President. He indicated that the President's displeasure had not been directed at him personally, but at the subject of political reporting in general, both overt and covert, and Chairman Boland described the answer which he had given to ABC News a week ago on this point. The Chairman had apparently stated that political reporting was an Embassy function and not one solely the responsibility of the Intelligence Community. (C)

4. Charters: The DCI asked HPSCI to get involved in the Charters questions at an early stage and not wait for the Senate to finish its work. Because of the Church Committee legacy there are likely to remain some important differences between the Senate and the Administration on Charters questions on which the DCI stated it would be helpful to have the HPSCI view during the negotiation process. Tom Latimer then asked that we make sure we keep him supplied with all the position papers that have been developed by the Working Group which we agreed to do. (C)

5. Finally, the DCI discussed the Authorization Bill and our hope that an FOIA repealer and a provision permitting our security people to carry guns be included. Mike O'Neill later called back to obtain our language on these questions which we have agreed to supply him. ( C )

From the standpoint of the Committee, Chairman Boland asked whether we had had any extensive involvement with SAVAK during the reporting period on Iran. The answer was negative with respect to Iranian domestic


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

SECRET

2

activity. Secondly, the Chairman brought up the question as to whether we had received any report from Guyana about the goings on at Jonestown at the time of the Ryan incident. The Director replied that (our Chief of Station) had picked up some information on Jonestown subsequent to the incident and had passed it to the State Department since it involved U.S. persons. Later Tom Latimer and Charlie Rose asked me for a full readout of our information from Guyana so that the Committee would be in a position to state clearly what the limitations on our knowledge in that area are.
(C)


Frederick P. Hitz
Legislative Counsel

DISTRIBUTION: DCI
DDCI
DDO
ER
MP (OLC)
OLC Record Copy
FPH Chron

ORIGINAL CLBY 532-112
DECL OREVW ON 12/7/98
EXT BYND 6 YRS BY 532-112
REASON 3D3

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)