# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OUTGOING.ESSAGE

SECRET

261444Z CIA

CONF CALAE INFO: FILE *CI/MANS, C/CI2-CLONID*
C/PCS. AGCLORE

215000
DISSEM BY:

PER Soo # 132

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION//ATTA: R.K. MCHEFSUE/GENERAL
INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION.Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLISENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED - NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS Y

CIR-316/03605-77 Y

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATION INTO THE DEATH OF ORLANDO LETELIER; INFORMATION ON THE ORGANIZATION OF CORU V

REFERENCE: FIRCI-312/03290-77; 7 OCTOBER 1977 Y

3. THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION PERTAINS TO INDIVIDUALS MENTIONED IN REFERENCE. THIS INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO ASSISTANT UNITED STATES ATTORNEY EUGENE M. PROPPER.

2. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON ROBERTO CARRERAS, AN ARGENTINE NATIONAL WHO WAS IDENTIFIED AS A FORMER EMPLOYEE OF THE GULF AND WESTERN CORPORATION AT THE FALCONERIDGE PROJECT, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (SIC) AND WHO IS CURRENTLY EMPLOYED BY "EL ROSARIO" MINE.

CHEADQUARTERS COMMENT: IN DECEMBER 1976 THE SAME SOURCE WHO PROVIDED PARAGRAPHS 2 - 6 OF REFERENCE REPORTED THAT EULALIO FRANCISCO "FRANK" CASTRO PAZ AND ROLANDO OTERO (HERNANDEZ) TRAVELLED AT LEAST

![cross file copy for 201-284811 DO NOT DESTROY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

TUICE TO LA ROMANA TO SEE ALVARO CARTA, CUBAN BORN PRESIDENT OF GULF AND WESTERN AMERICAS, TO SEEK ECONOMIC ASSISTANCE.) (SANTO DOMINGO STAZION COMMENT: CABTA NOW HAS A TOP JOB WITH GULF AND WESTERN IN GORAL GABLES, FLORIDA.

3. RUBEN SOTO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE SOTO PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED TO YOU AS ONE OF THE BEST FRIENDS OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR JUAN ARMAND MONTES. SOTO, THE OWNER OF "LA FRANCESA" BAKERY (PASTRY SHOOP) AND A CUBAN EXILE、IS KNOWN TO BE CLOSE TO ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND FRANK CASTRO.Y

A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY REPORTED IN LATE 1976 THAT HE WAS TOLD BY A CUBAN EXILE IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC THAT A DELEGATION OF LOCAL CUBANS、AMONG THEM RUBEN 'SCTO, WAS SOLICITING MONEY FOR CUBAN RIGHTIST ACTIVITIES.Y

ONE RUBEN SOTO HAYET, WHO WAS BORN IN ISLA DE PINOS, CUBA, ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1937, WAS A MEMBER OF BRIGADE 2506 AND WAS A CANDIDATE TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 1962. THERE HAS BEEN NO AGENCY CONTACT WITH SCTSO HAYET SINCE THEN.Y

IN 1963 ONE RUBEN SOTO AULET, POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH RUBEN

DATE:
ORIS:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OME D 0 0 0 0 3

SECRET

CIA 115000

CO INFO FILE DISSEM BY:

SOTO HAVET, WAS DESCRISED AS A FORMER 2506 BRIGADE MEMBER WHO WAS AN EXECUTIVE MEMBER OF THE MOVEMENT FOR REVOLUTIONARY RECOVERY (MPR).-4

4. IN DECEMBER 1976 THE SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 2 - 6 OF REFERENCE REPORTED THAT IN JULY OR AUGUST 1976, DURING A MEETING OF A GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES AT THE PIZZA RESTAURANT IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ARMANDO CABALLEROS, OWNER OF THE RESTAURANT, SPOKE OFENLY ABOUT PLANS TO ASSASSINATE "UN GRAN FUNCIONARIO AMERICANO" IN COSTA RICA. CHEADQUARTERS COMMENT: PLEASE SEE CIOL-0445-76, 23 DECEMBER 1976. WHICH PROVIDED YOU WITH INFORMATION ON TERRORIST PLOTTING OF CUSAN EXILES AND INFORMATION RELATING TO THE ACTIVITIES OF U.S. ARMY MAJOR MONTES. IN RELATION TO THE PARAGRAPH TWO MEETING. SOURCE REPORTED THAT THE PARTICIPANTS DISCUSSED THE FACT THAT FORMER SECRETARY OF STATE KISSINGER MET IN EITHER MEXICO OR COSTA RICA WITH "AN IMPORTANT FIGURE IN THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT NAMED HART" (PROBABLY ARMANDO HART DAVALOS). KISSINGER WAS LABELED A TRAITOR AND PLANS WERE DISCUSSED TO ASSASSINATE HIM IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA. THE PERSON CHARGED WITH COORDINATING THIS ACTION WAS PETER (OP PEDRO)

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET

IMPDET
CL BY: 009499


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE

CIA
115000

MARTINEZ. SOURCE BELIEVED THAT MARTINEZ RESIDED IN MIAMI. THE PLAN WAS NOT CARRIED OUT BECAUSE THE "CIA FOUND OUT" AND "AN IMPORTANT EXILE." IDENTIFIED AS MANOLO REYES, WHO ALSO LIVED IN MIAMI, OBJECTED AND THREATENED TO ADVISE A PROMINENT U.S. POLITICIAN.

ONE ARMANDO CABALLERO PARODI, WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 10 JULY 1941, WAS A FORMER MEMBER OF THE 250L BRIGADE. HE WAS TERMINATED BY THIS AGENCY IN MAY 1963. IN LATE 1963 STHERE WAS INTEREST IN USING CABALLERO IN TEACHING INFILTRATION TECHNIQUES BUT THERE IS NO INDICATION THAT HE WAS CONTACTED IN THIS REGARD.

5. THIS AGENCY HAS NO INFORMATION ON DANILO GONZALEZ、IDENTIFIED AS PRESIDENT OF THE CUBAN CLUB IN SANTO DOMINGO, OR ON LOCAL EMPLOYEES OF THE AMERICAN EMBASSY IN SANTO DOMINGO, JOSE RENE ROMAN, JOSE JEREZ OR FRANKLIN POLANCO.

6. JORGE ALONSO PUJOLS IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE ALONSO-PUJOL BERMUDEZ WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 20 JULY 1923. HE IS THE SON OF FORMER CUBAN VICE PRESIDENT GUILLERMO ALONSO-PUJOL, WHO SERVED DURING THE ADMINISTRATION OF CARLOS PRIO. ALONSO-PUJOL RECEIVED

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

OMF 0 0 0 0 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
CONF: INFO. FILE CIA 115000 DISSEM BY: PER

TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY DURING 1961 AND WAS CAPTUREDBAT THE BAY
OF PIGS. HIS FATHER PURPOTEDLY PAID $100,000 FOR HIS SON'S RELEASE.
HOWEVER, AT THE TIME THE RANSOM BAS EFFECTED, THERE WAS CONSIDERABLE
SPECULATION AMONG EXILES IN THE MIAMI AREA THAT HIS FATHER DID NOT
PAY THE RANSOM BUT HAD MADE A DEAL WITH THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT FOR
ALONSO-PUJOL TO UNDERTAKE PRO-CASTRO PROPAGANDA IN LATIN AMERICA IN
EXCHANGE FOR HIS FREEDOM. ALONSO-PUJOL WAS ARRESTED IN MIAMI IN
JUNE 1970 ON NARCOTICS-RELATED CHARGES: IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE
DRUG ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATION MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFOR-
MATION ON JORGE ALONSO-PUJOL BERMUDEZ.Y

7. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTHEFY ERNESTO HERNANDEZ BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMA-
   ΤΙΟΝ.Υ

8. PABLO MARTIN IS THE PEN NAME USED BY AVENOL FRANCO, WHO IS
   ALSO KNORUN AS FRANCISCO AVENOLL. FRABCO, WHO "MAY NOT BE IDENTICAL
   WITH THE MARTIN MENTIONED IN REFERENCE, WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 26 JUNE
1936. FRANCO HAS SERVED AS PROPAGANDA SECRETARY FOR THE CUBAN EXILE
      ORGANIZATION "JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA" AND WAS EDITOR OF THE ANTI-CASTRO

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:009५११


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OFF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE CIA .115000 DISSEM BY:

PUBLICATION "AMIGO DEL PUEBLO" AS OF MAY 1968.4

9. FRANK TEIRA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH FRANCISCO ANTONIO TEIRA ALBEDFONSO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 12 JULY 1934. TEIRA IS A FORMER CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER WHO JUMPED SHIP IN PANAMA IN JULY 1969 AND REQUESTED ASYLUM. HE HAS APPEARED BEFORE THE U.S. SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY AND HAS GIVEN TESTIMONY REELATING TO THE COMMUNIST THREAT TO THE U.S. VIA THE CARIBBEAN.Y

10. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY LUIS ROSS BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.Y

11. JOSE AGUILA IS POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH JOSE RAMON FLORENCIO AUILA CALIMANO WHO WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 27 OCTOBER 1932. AGUILA HAS LONG BEEN IDENTIFIED AS AN INFORMANT FOR DOMINICAN INTELLIGENCE.Y

12. ONE A. WILFREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO, BORN IN GUINES, CUBA, ON & FEBRUARY 1943、WAS SCHEDULED TO RECEIVE PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN EARLY 1961. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON A. WILFREDO BLANCO DEL CASTILLO.Y

13. LEVI MARRERO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH LEVI C. MARRERO

SECRET

E 2 •MPDET CL LY: 309५११


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

**SECRET**

CONF: INFO: FILE

CIA 115000

ARTILES WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 5 OCTOBER 1910. MARRERO HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY OF THE PEOPLE (PRP) SINCE ITS FORMATION IN COSTA RICA IN NOVEMBER 81972.4

14. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY JOSE LUIS PRADO BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.Y

15. ANDRES SARGEN IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ANDRES NAZARIO SARGEN WHO WAS BORN IN LAS VILAS, CUBA, ON 11 MARCH 1926. NAZARIO IS A LONG TIME ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVIST AND SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE CUBAN EXILE ORGANIZATION "ALPHA 66.4

16. JORGE MAS CANOSA IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JORGE LINCOLN MAS CANOSA WHO WAS BORN IN SANTIAGO DE CUBA ON 21 SEPTEMBER 1939. MAS WAS RECRUITED BY THIS AGENCY IN MARCH 1961 TO PARTICIPATE IN THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. HE HAS NOT BEEN USED BY THIS AGENCY IN ANY BOPERATIONAL CAPACITY SINCE THE BAY OF PIGS. MAS HAS BEEN ACTIVE IN THE CURBAN REPRESENTATION IN EXILE (RECE) GROUP. IN JANUARY 1966 HE WAS THE SUBJECT OF A DEPARTEMENT OF JUSTICE INQUIRY REGARDING CERTAIN INDIVIDUALS INVOLVED IN A HIT-AND-RUN RAID CONDUCTED IN THE HAVANA HARBOR AREA IN NOVEMBER 1965.4

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

**SECRET**

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 604499


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET.

CIA: 115000

17. JUAN PEREZ FRANCO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH JUAN EDUARDO PEREZ FRANCO WHO WAS BORN IN HAVANA ON 28 JANUARY 1928. PEREZ RECEIVED PARAMILITARY TRAINING FROM THIS AGENCY IN LATE 1960 AND WAS ACTIVE IN THE 82506 BRIGADE. AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH PEREZ WAS TERMINATED IN JANUARY 1962.

18. FREDDY LUGO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE FREDDY LUGO WHO WAS ARRESTED IN 1976 IN CONNECTION WITH THE CUBANA AIRLINER CRASH.

19. GERMAN LOZANO IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH GERMAN RICARDO LOZANO WHO WAS ARRESTED ALONG WITH FREDDY LUGO IN 1976.

20. THIS AGENCY HAS BEEN UNABLE TO POSITIVELY IDENTIFY FERNANDO BUENO BASED ON THE LACK OF PERTINENT BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION.

21. GENERAL JUAN NEPOMUCENO FOLCH PEREZ, AIR ADVISOR TO THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH. WAS BORN IN PUERTO PLATA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ON 3 AUGUST 1926. FOLCH HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY OF STATE FOR THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE AND MORE RECENTLY AS AIR FORCE CHIEF OF STAFF. IN LATE MAY 1972 USDAO, SANTO DOMINGO, REPORTED THAT FORMER CHIEF OF THE CUBAN NATIONAL POLICE, GENERAL MANUEL BENITEZ VALDEZ, HAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE-TIME GROUP

CONF: INFO: FILE CITE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CIA

115000

0 INDEX DISSEM BY:

0 NO INDEX

0 RETURN TO PER

0 # OF PAGES

VISITED THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC IN AN EFFORT TO SELL, TO THE
DOMINICANS, ARMAMENT AND SPARE PARTS FROM A U.S.-BASED FIRM WHICH
BENITEZ WAS REPRESENTING. BENITEZ HAD CONTACTED TWO DOMINICAN
GENERALS, ONE OF THEM BEING FOLCH. USDAO COMMENTED THAT FOLCH'S
ASSOCIATION WITH CUBAN EXILES AND ARMS SALESMEN HAD BEEN THE
SUBJECT OF PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE DURING 1972 AND THAT FOLCH WAS
ALLEGEDLY INVOLVED WITH MILITANT CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, SUCH AS "ALPHA
66," DURING 1962-1963.4

22. ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE, IN LATE DECEMBER 1965 ONE VIRGILIO POU WAS IDENTIFIED AS A MEMBER OF A RIGHTIST GROUP
    WHICH WAS ORGANIZED TO COUNTER THE SPREADING OF INFLUENCE BY FORMER
    "CONSTITUTIONALISTS" IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE GROUP WAS
    RESPONSIBLE FOR PLACING PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE AT THE GRAVESITE OF LT.
    COLONEL RAFAEL TOMAS FERNANDEZ DOMINGUEZ IN SANTIAGO, DOMINICAN
    REPUBLIC, IN MID-DECEMBER 1965 IN AN APPARENT ATTEMPT TO MURDER
    COLONEL FRANCISCO CAAMANO DENO, WHO WAS ATTENDING A CEREMONY IN
    HONOR OF FERNANDEZ. THE GROUP WAS UNSUCCESSFUL IN ITS ATTEMPT TO
    DETONATE THE EXPLOSIVE.Y

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION E 2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

DIONAL CPHTEN USE ONLY

AS

erm

OMF. O

クジ

SECRET

DEBRAGE MANDO MEDIGATOR

CONF.

100

De

0

0

DATE FWF

INFO: FILE

FADI

"

20

CIA

115000

0

DISSEM BY:

D

NO RIDE

0

RETURN TO

PCR

0

201-81

23. FRANK CABRAL IS PROBABBLY IDENTICAL WITH DR. FRANK CABRAL CALCAGNO WHO WAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, ON 6 FEBRUARY 1542. CABRAL SERVED AS CIVILIAN ADVISOR TO PRESIDENT JOAQUIN BALAGUER FROM 1970 UNTIL HIS ARREST IN LATE JUNE 1974 AS A RESULT OF THE DISCOVERY OF NUMEROUS WEAPONS AND TELTAP EQUIPMENT IN HIS HOME. CABRAL HAD USED HIS RESIDENCE AS A CENTER OF ORPERATIONS WHILE RUNNING HIS OWN INTELLIGENCE NETWORK. CABRAL WASRSENT INTO EXILE AND RETURNED TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FROM SPAIN IN JULY 1975. HE HAS SERVED AS SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE DISSIDENT FACTION OF THE DEMOCRATIC QUISQUEYAN PARTY (PQD3.4

24.. MAJOR JUAN POU CASTRO, MORE COMMONLY REFERRED TO AS JUAN POU, JUNIOR, IS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE BROTHER OF MAJOR JOAQUIN ANTONIO POU CASTRO. THIS AGENCY HAS NO ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC ENDATA ON JUAN POU. HOWEVER, HIS BROTHER JOAQUIN, WHO WAS BORN IN SANTO DOMINGO ON 1 MARCH 1935, GAINED NOTORIETY BY "ENEUTRALIZING" TERRORISTS WHEN HE WAS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPECIAL OPERATIONS GROUP, MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SECTION (J-2) OF THE DOMINICAN ARMED FORCES.Y

25. IN APRIL 1966 ONE COLONEL PAULINO REYES (DE) LEON, WHO IS

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

NLEASING GARDES

COORDMATING OFFIC

LASSIFICATION

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OPPICER

E 4

3

L

BY:

INDDET

8009499


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF O 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF:

INFO: FILE

CIA 115000

DISSEM BY:

PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH THE REYES MENTIONED IN REFERENCE, WAS ONE
OF WHREE DOMINICAN MILITARY OFFICERS WHO WAS CALLED TO SANTO DOMINGO
TO BE QUESTIONED ABOUT HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THE ALLEGED PLOT TO
ASSASSINATE GENERAL JOSE MORILLO. PREVIOUS INFORMATION FROM 1965
INDICATES THAT JOSE PAULINO REYES DE LEON, WHO WAS BORN ON 5 MAY
1932 IN LA VEGA, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, WAS COMMANDER OF THE NATIONAL
POLICE IN SAN FRANCISCO DE MACORIS.Y

26. AN FBIS ITEM FROM JULY 1966 IDENTIFIES ONE CAPTAIN FELIPE
    E. ROJAS LOFEZ AS AN AIDE WITH THE INTER-AMERICAN DEFENSE BOARD.
    THIS AGENCY HAS NOBADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON ROJAS LOPEZ. CSANTO
    DOMINGO STATION COMMENT: SOURCE WAS NOT POSITIVE THAT ROJAS ATTENDED
    THE MEETING.JY

27. ONE MAJOR DARIO L. DIAZ GIL, WHO WAS BORN IN THE DOMINICAN
    REPUBLIC ON 19 DECEMBER 1936, IS A MEMBER OF THE DOMINICAN AIR FORCE
    PARACHUTE BRIGADE.Y

28. ANA MARGARITA (DE) WINDT IS THE WIFE OF EULALIO FRANCISCO
    [FRANK] CASTRO PAZ۰۲

29. IN MAY 1977 OUR MEXICO CITY FIELD STATION IDENTIFIED

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE

OMF D

*SECRET*

CONF:

INFO: FILE

CIA 115000

DISSEM BY:

PER

WINFRED E. HODGEN AS THE PARTNER OF FRANK CASTRO. THE STATION ADVISED THAT IN EARLY 1977 HODGEN GAVE A PHONY CHECK FROM A MIAMI BANK IN THE AMOUNT OF $23,000 TO A DOMINICAN MONEY CHANGER (FNU) SANTANA. SANTANA STATED THAT HE HAD CHANGED "ARREMANY MANY" DOLLAR CHECKS INTO DOMINICAN PESOS FOR HODGEN/CASTRO AND THISOBE WAS THE FIRST PHONY CHECK. SANTANA ALSO SAID HE BELIEVED HODGEN WAS HIDING IN GUATEMALA.

IT IS BELIEVED THAT THE FAA MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL PEERTINENT INFORMATION ON WINFRED E. HODGEN.

30. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DEVELOPED BY THIS AGENCY ON EULALIO FRANCISCO CASTRO PAZ, ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA AND GUILLERMO NOVO SAMPOL HAS BEEN FORWARDED TO YOU IN PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE.

31. THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS ACQUIRED BY CIA PURSUANT TO ITS RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE COLLECTION OF INTELLIGENCE ON FOREIGN ASPECTS OF INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ACTIVITY. THIS INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE FURTHER DISSEMINATED WITHOUT PRIOR CONSULTATION WITH THIS AGENCY.

32. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1.2.4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

CONP: INFO: FILE .115000 DISSEM BY:

"B CODE" TO FOLLOWING: 8201-0292411 (SOTO-HAYET)、201-0284805

<CABALLERO), 201-0294335 CALONSO-PUJOL)、201-0434598 (FRANCO) 201-

0653367 (TEIRA), 201-0332287 (AGUILA), 201-0298826 (BLANCO), 201-

0355380 (NAZARIO), 201-0297817 (MAS), 201-0285794 (PEREZ, 201-0355001

(FOLCH), 201-0676309 (CABRAL)、201-0842677 (POU、JOAQUINI, INDEX:
MAJOR DARIO L. DIAZ GIL: WINFRED E. HODGEN, AND ANA MARGARITA DE
WINDT, WIFE OF CASTRO PAZ (201-0742365).

ORIG: LA/AN/CH (BASHAW X10343; COORD: C/LA/AN (BEARDSLEY); C/LA/CAR

<PALMER); C/LA/COG CLATRASHER AGC/DDO (GOLDIN): C/LA/OPS (DISTEFANO);
SA/C/LA ESTURBITTS); AUTH: C/LAD (WARREN); REL: C/PCS/LSN/ID
(KUHN).

DATE: 20 OCTOBER 1977

ORIG: ALICE BASHAW

UNIT: LA/AN/CH

EXT: 1034

![signature of CL/PCS/LSN/ID]

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

![signature of C/LA/AN]

![signature of C/LA/CBAR]

![signature of DC/LA/COG]

![signature of AGC/DDO]

![signature of C/LA/OPS]

![signature of SA/C/LA]

![signature of coordinating officers]

![signature of CLAD]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 21 JULY 1977

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; EXPLOSION IN CAR DRIVEN BY ORLANDO LETELIER - VICTIM (DECEASED) ....

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 21 JULY 1977

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS; EXPLOSION IN CAR
DRIVEN BY ORLANDO LETELIER - VICTIM
(DECEASED) ....

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

CABLE REC. DISSEM BY

TOTAL COPIES 12

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/PLOTTED

STAFF

ACTION UNIT

BP FILE C-0/P/2/c14, c/e/fee2

ACTION #

T 122483 E1 A3 82 PAGE 01 IN 385643

TOR:2621232 AUG 77 SAGO 37016

SECRET 2621292 AUG 77 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 37016

TO: BUENOS AIRES INFO DIRECTOR.

WN INTEL WAENT FUDWELL

REF: MEMO OF 4 AUG 77 FROM LEGATT BUENOS AIRES FORWARDED BY TM

1. PLS PASS FOLLOWING COMMENTS TO LEGATT SCHERRER KEYED TO

HIS REF MEMO ON DEBRIEFING OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ:

1) NO STATION, DAO TRACES ON MAJOR (FNU) TORRES.

2) NO STATION TRACES MARCELO (MARCELLO) ESTOBEL OR ESTROBEL (PH). ONLY NAME CLOSE IS ONE MARIO ESTIBIL (SIC) MAHUIDA, WHO DESCRIBED IN FEB 72 AS A 1ST CLASS DETECTIVE WHO ENTERED THE SERVICE IN 1954.

3) NO STATION TRACES ALFREDO VILLAVACA.

4) THERE ARE SEVERAL PARACHUTE CLUBS IN SANTIAGO. BUT WE HAVE NOT YET IDENTIFIED ONE CALL "LOS SCORPIONES."

5) THIS PROBABLY A REFERENCE TO TOBALABA AIR STRIP. WHICH LOCATED ON SOUTHERN OUTSKIRTS OF SANTIAGO.

6) NO TRACES ON CAPTAINS JUAN WILLIAMS OR ALEJANDRO

ROMEAL IN ADDITION TO THOSE PASSED YOU DURING YOUR RECENT VISIT ERE.

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-284811

DO NOT DESTROY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

CABLE IF DISSEM BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:
ACVANCE COM SURD BLOTTE BY
ACTION UNIT RF P VM
STAFF
2
T 122-33 E:A352 PAGE-02-22 IN 395643
TOR:262123Z AUG 77 SAGO 37216

2. STATION CAN QUERY SOURCE FORMERLY IN DINA FOR INFO
   ABOVE NAMED PERSONS. BUT AT SOME SLIGHT RISK OF ALERTING GOC
   TO USG INTEREST. PLS ADVISE IF YOU WOULD LIKE US TO MAKE
   THIS QUERY.

3. FILE: 222-1220/1. E2 IMP DET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SOLANO OTERO HERNANDEZ
Fecha de Nacimiento: 19 de abril de 1941
Natural: Marianao, Pinar del Rio-Habana.
Fecha ingreso el grupo: Sept. 1960
Especialidad: Oficina y armas cortas, pistola y revolver.
Nombre de sus Sres. Padres: Rolando y Margot.
Nombre de su Sra. Esposa: No.
Cargos Observacionales: 1) ler. año de Bachillerato, Restaurant y accss y bn egt do su padre 5 meses, Ayuntamiento de Marianao 2 meses en 1957, Nov. 19 legal a caja Fierre
2) Catolica; 3) Ninguno; 4) Gobierno que respete el derecho de los ciudadanos y lleva obliga economica; 5) Economia desarrollada al maximo; 6) Ejercito, Aviacion Militar.
Directamente Miami.

![CLASSIFICATION REVIEW Condeted On 22 mar 72]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

ST31 SANTIAGO OTERO HERNANDEZ

Fecha de nacimiento: 19 de abril de 1941

Natural: Marianao, Pinar del Rio, Habana.

Fecha ingreso al grupo: Sept. 1960

Especialista: Oficina y armas cortas, pistola y revolver.

Nombre de sus Sros, Padres: Rolando y Margot.

Centro de su Sra, Eurosas No.

Otros Observaciones: 1) lor, ano de Bachillerato, Restaurant 3 meses y bn ogy de su padre 5 meses. Ayuntamiento de Marianao 2 meses en 1957, Nov. 19 legal a caso Risso

2) Catolica; 3) Ninguno; 4) Gobierno que respeta el derecho de los ciudadanos y lleva acoga economica; 5) Economia desarrollada al maximo; 6) Ejercito, Aviacion Militar.

Directamente

Miami.

> [Figure: Stamp that indicates "CLASSIFICATION REVIEW Conducted On 22 MAR 72"]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

No. 2731

Nombre Otero Hernández Rolando

Toam A

Estatura 2

Peso 150

Color Ojos Castaña Pardos color del Pele Negro

Cicatricos visiblos ninguna

1 - 2 - 3 - 4 - 5 - 6 - 7 - 8 - 9 - 10 - 11 - 12 - 13 - 14 - 15 - 16

RECORD DENTAL:

32 - 31 - 30 - 29 - 28 - 27 - 26 - 25 - 24 - 23 - 22 - 21 - 20 - 19 - 18 - 17

Dodos pulgaross

> [Figure: fingerprints of the left and right thumbs labeled Izquierdo and Derecho.]
> Description: The image shows fingerprints of the left and right thumbs, labeled as Izquierdo (left) and Derecho (right).

![classification review]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

Rolando OTERO Hernandes
2731
3264
1
Airborne
Captured

CONFIDENTIAL
SECRET

CLASSIFICATION REVIEW
Cont'd: 23 nov 77
DOWNGRADE TO CONFIDENTIAL
E/12 REVIEW AUTHORITY
60097

201-54511


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# HOJA DE INDENTIFICACION PERSONAL.

NUMERO 2731

NOMBRE Y APELLIDOS

PECHA Y LUGAR DE NACIMITO 1 Abril - 1941 - Mariana - Habana

ESTADO CIVIL Soltero

EDUCACION QUE POSSE GRADUADO PARA 10 Grado ALGUNA EXP EN Oficina

PROFESION ESTUDIANTE

OTRAS APTITUDES EXP - COMERCIO - poco INGLES - SE MANEJAR CARRO

EXPERIENCIA MILITAR Ninguna

PECHA DE SALIDA DE CUBA Y VIA QUE UTEIZO (Ponga si salio logal o ilegal-)

19 Noviembre - 1959- Jeroninas "(C- monto

Key West - FLORIDA - LEGAL

FECHA DE LLEGADA A LOS ESTADOS UNIDOS Y EN QUE CONDICIONES LEGALES VIVIA ALLI

19 Noviembre 1959 - VIA LEGAL KEY WEST - VISA DE
ESTUDIANTE

INFORMACION DE UTILIDAD SOBRE COSAS QUE SEPA DE SU PAIS CONOCIMIETOS de la cuidad de Pinar del Rio, y sus puestos MILITARES.
CARRETERAS ALREDEDORES, PLANTA ELECTRICA etc. Ciudad de "Marianao" ESTACIONES POLICIACAS etc:
ARROYO ARENAS. LA HABANA CENTROS principales EN PARTE


Firma


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

ROTACTO OTERO HERNANDEZ

INDENTIFICACION PERSONAL (BASE TRAX)

NUMERO 2771

PELOTOM Y TEAM A

FECHA DE NACIMIENTO 18 Abril 1941

NATURAL Marianaoy P del Pio y Sabana

FECHA INTEGRO EL GRUPO Sept 1960

ESPECIALISTA Oficina

NOMBRE SUS SRS. PADRES Rolandi y Margot

NOMBRE SU SRA. ESPOSA No

NOMBRE Y EDAD SUS HIJOS No

AQUI SE FONDRA LAS VECES QUE HA SIDO JUZGADO

OTRAS OBSERVACIONES

![illegible text] 22 man ??
![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

FBI IOCMENT

DATE: 13 JANUARY, 1977

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: COORDINATION OF UNITED REVOLUTIONARY
ORGANIZATIONS (CORU)

FBI FILE NO: 2-471 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECPET

DO COCUMENT EXTRACT

THE SOLL WING INFCRVATION CONCESAING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
PASSIFS HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANGTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
CELSONS DERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUー
MENT FOCY WHICH THIS EXTRACT HAS FREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
!ןינייייייΥ ΟΓΟΤΑΙΝΙNG TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FC D/FIIFS.

-TEST, ECLANDE
221-0224311 201-0742365
SFX M SCCM-17011
09 CEC 76

COME OF HALCONES OCPACOS
TEAM
LOC USA, FLA, MIANT. SUBJ OF 201-0945645 LIST
56 (031) 3Rs 1670SCINATION OF UNITED REVO-
LUTIONARY COGANIZATICAS IN TOUCH IN MIAMI.

CATE LO JAV 77 09466726

201-284811

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# CONFIDENTIAL SECRET (When Filled In)

14 Ave 76
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on OILRO (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

Should be closed. (If this category applies, affix Records Officer stamp.)

Unwitting collaborator. OI Code A7. Explanation:

Witting collaborator. OI Code A1.

Potential witting collaborator; date opened: OI Code A2.

Former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code АЗ.

Potential victing collaborator never contacted. OI Code AS.

Counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). Of Code A5.

All others, OI Code A6.

Signed Open n (name) Qulah Onket(title) 406/24
(component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed Jm (initials) 1476 (date)

This document 10 a permanent part of this file. 201-

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET (When Filled In)

E2 IMPDET CL BY 061475


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# 201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

(Please Type)

TO: IP/DMS Room GA-20 Tube Address: DW-6

FROM: VA IA

1.0 2.

| TYPE OF ACTION (Select Only One) | OPED 201                                                                      | TYPE OF FILE CONTROL (Select Only One) | HOLD UNRESTRICTED IN IP/CAU | DATE   TUBE ADDRESS (IP Use Only) |
| -------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- | --------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| AMEND 201                        | X                                                                             | HOLD IN IP/CAU BUT RESTRICT TO DESA    |                             |                                   |
| ADD CRYPTOSYM                    | 3. (ENTER CRYPTONYM(S) ONLY IF CRYPTONYM ACTION HAS BEEN INDICATED IN ITEM 1. | PERMANENTLY CHANGE TO DESK             |                             |                                   |
| CANCEL CRYPTONYM                 | SUPERSEDED CRYPTONYM                                                          | NEW CRYPTONYM                          |                             |                                   |

4. TOUR NAME 5. 201 NUMBER

(L.A.S.T.) (First) (Middle)

6. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (For Type. Use A For Alias. Y For Variant of AKA. M For Maiden)

TYPE: (L.A.S.T.) (First) (Middle)

7. SEX 8. DATE OF BIRTH, IF CIRCA CHECK BOX 9. COUNTRY, PROVINCE, CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH

(X ONE)

M DAY MONTH YEAR 10. CITIZENSHIP. (IP Use Only) 11. OCCUPATION (IP Use Only)

F U.S. NATURALIZED

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION(S) OR TARGET ORGANIZATION(S) (IP Use Only) 13. OI CODE(S) 14. ACTION DESG CODE (IP Use Only)

15. # COUNTRY OF LOCATION (IP Use Only) 16. INTEREST DESG CODE (IP Use Only)

17. CITE FIELD ADDRESSED TO RECEIVE INDEX CARDS:

18. # DOCUMENT SYMBOL NUMBER DATE 19. # RESIDENCE GIVEN IN OPENING DOCUMENT

20. SUMMARY TEXT FOR INDEX DECODES (Insert additional identifying and descriptive data. Do not include Cryptonyms. If appears record desired. Provide spouse bio data here preceded by "Code D-")

21. SIGNATURE OF REQUESTED 22. SIGNATURE OF DIV/STAFF CHIEF, OR 23. 201 NUMBER HIGHER AUTHORITY IF SUBJECT US CITIZEN

FORM 831 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

CZ. - FOLT CL. BY: 690009 130-011

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

![image]

OMP 0 9 0 0 0 "34-3"

SECRET

STAFF

1300562 DIRECTOR 943114

CO: LAB INFO: FILE IPIAN, SSY, PS/CG LSM110, YOPS, 0803 BPS/1964, 000/00, C14, 55/5000

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO SAN JOSE, CARACAS.

UNINTEL

3. ON 12 NOVEMBER 1976 THE "WASHINGTON POST" PUBLISHED AN ARTICLE BY JOE CRANKSHAW IN MIAMI WHICH REPORTED THAT FBI HAD BEEN TOLD OF A DINA PLOT TO USE CUBAN EXILES TO KILL LUIS ANDRES PASCAL ALLENDE AND ANNE MARIE BRUSSIER (SIC - SHOULD BE BEAUSIRE). FOLLOWING ARE EXCERPTS FROM ARTICLE:

A. RICARDO M O'R ALES, VENEZUELAN INTEL OFFICIAL. REPORTED TO FBI THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD OF A PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER BY ROLANDO OTERO. ACCORDING TO OTERO, HE WENT TO SANTIAGO IN EARLY FEBRUARY AND IDENTIFIED HIMSELF TO DINA OFFICIALS AS A FUGITIVE FROM THE U.S. AT DINA HAS, OTERO SAID HE WAS TOLD THAT THE SECRET POLICE SUPPORT THE CUBAN EXILES' CAUSE AND HOULD PROVIDE FUNDS AND ARMS FOR THEN IN RETURN FOR A FAVOR." THE FAVOR WAS TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER IN COSTA RICA BEFORE 22 FEBRUARY 1976. OTERO QUOTED DINA SPOKESMEN AS SAYING BOSCH HOULD BE BACKUP IF OTERO FAILED IN THE HISSION. ACCORDING TO OTERO. HE REFUSED TO DO THE FAVOR, LEFT CHILE AND TOLD HORALES. HE THEN RETURNED TO

![record copy]

201-299292

SECRET

13 Nor 76

c1-284811

IMPDET

CL BY: 016452


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# OUTGOING MESSAGE
SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE 943114

SANTIAGO AND WAS ARRESTED TWO WEEKS LATER. Y

B. BOSCH WAS ARRESTED ON 19 FEBRUARY ENTERING COSTA RICA
WITH A FALSE PASSPORT AND CHARGED WITH PLOTTING TO KILL SECRETARY
OF STATE HENRY KISSINGER, PASCAL AND BRUSSIER. NO TRIAL WAS HELD
AND BOSCH WAS LATER DEPORTED. HE RETURNED TO SANTIAGO AND
APPARENTLY REMAINED THERE UNTIL GOING TO CARIBBEAN TO ORGANIZE CORU. Y

C. INFO ON THIS ALLEGED DINA-CUBAN EXILE CONSPIRACY WAS
SUPPRESSED DURING THE SEPTEMBER 76 FEDERAL BOMBING TRIAL OF OTERO
IN JACKSONVILLE. WHEN OTERO STARTED TO TESTIFY ABOUT HIS ACTIVITIES
IN CHILE, GOVT PROSECUTORS OBJECTED THAT INFO WAS IMMATERIAL TO
BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO WAS FOUND INNOCENT; HIS TRIAL ON RELATED
STATE CHARGES WAS TO BEGIN IN MIAMI ON MONDAY (& NOV) BUT WAS
ORDERED POSTPONED UNTIL EARLY 1977.4.

D. OTERO HAD LIVED IN FLORIDA UNTIL LATE DECEMBER 1975
WHEN HE WAS TOLD BY FBI INFORMANT THAT FBI WAS PREPARING TO HAVE HIM
INDICTED ON BOMBING CHARGES. OTERO THEN WENT TO DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
WHERE HE WAS ARRESTED AND PAROLED. WHEN MIAMI FEDERAL GRAND JURY
RETURNED INDICTMENTS AGAINST OTERO, HE FLEW TO CARACAS WHERE STAYED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# OUTGOING MESSAGE ...

OMF.0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

943114

WITH MORALES. INFO IN REPORTS ALLEGES THAT OTERO WAS TOLD THAT IF
VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES MOVED TO ARREST HIM, HE COULD RECEIVE ASYLUM
WITH NEW CHILEAN AMBASSADOR. WHILE IN CARACAS, OTERO ALLEGEDLY
TOLD MORALES THAT HE HAD COMMITTED THE BOMBINGS IN MIAMI AND
MORALES PASSED THIS INFO TO FBI.Y

2. MUCH OF INFO ON PLOT TO KILL PASCAL AND BRUSSIER APPARENTLY
   TAKEN FROM 25 FEBRUARY 1976 FBI REPORT WHICH COULD COME FROM MORALES.
   MORALES WAS SOURCE OF NUMEROUS SECRET SERVICE REPORTS DURING
   KISSINGER VISIT TO CARACAS IN FEBRUARY 76 ON REPORTED ATTEMPT BY
   BOSCH TO KILL KISSINGER. ONE SECRET SERVICE REPORT INDICATED THAT
   MORALES HAD PROVIDED CARACAS LEGAL ATTACHE WITH RELIABLE INFORMATION
   IN THE PAST.Y

3.A. FILE: 201-284811, 201-299292. E2 IMPDET.d

DATE: 12 NOVEMBER 1976

ORIG: MARY GINN

UNIT: LA/SB/CH/R

EXT: 1471

![signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# SECRET

CONF: CLAR INFO. FILE CIA/DDO SS7

TO: PRIORITY FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
GENERAL INVESTIGATIVE DIVISION. Y

R.K. MCHARGUE/
General Investigat, Divisim

SECRET-WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED-NOT RELEASAULE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS

CIR-311/04246-76

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR INFORMATION WHICH MAY HAVE BEEN OBTAINED BY
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION DURING INTERROGATION OF ROLANDO
OTERO HERNANDEZ IN MAY 2197

1. THIS AGENCY WOULD APPRECIATE ANY PERTINENT INFORMATION
   REGARDING CONNECTIONS BETWEEN CIBAN EXILES AND THE CHILEAN
   DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE (DINA) THAT MAY HAVE BEEN
   DEVELOPED BY YOUR OFFICE IN THE INTERROGATION OF KOLANDO OTERO
   HERNADEZ IN MAY 1976. THIS INFORMATION IS NEEDED IN ORDER TO ASSIST
   THE SANTIAGO FIELD STATION IN THE COLLECTION OF INFORMATION POSSIBLY
   RELATED TO THE SEPTEMBER 1973 COMBING DEATH OF FORMER CHILEAN
   AMBASSADOR TO THE U.S. ORLANDO LETELIER.

2. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-2- ES CASCAD

E2 IMPDET- FILE: 200-12-200/1, 202-851118.

DATE: 22 OCTOBER 1576
ORIG: EL MONTGOMERY.
UNIT: LA/SB/CH
EXT: 1471

C-ENRIGHT (IN DRAFT)

LALIOG
CROSS PILE COPY FOR
201-84876
DO NOT DESTROY

SECRET

E 2 IMPDET
CL D: 711759


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: UB INFO: FILE: IPES OBTINT PR/COL

DATE THE GROUR: 122140Z
DIRECTOR

942799
DISSEM BY:

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO. Y

UNINTEL Y (UC 27841

REFS: A. EMBASSY TELEGRAM SANTIAGO 9991, 15 OCTOBER 1976

B. DIRECTOR 929297

C. DIRECTOR 941265 Y

1. IN VIEW OF 12 NOVEMBER 1976 ARTICLE IN "WASHINGTON POST" (BEING RELAYED SANTIAGO), DEALING WITH ALLEDGED DINA PLOT TO KILL PASCAL ALLENDE, WOULD APPRECIATE ANY INFO ON DINA-CUBAN EXILE CONTACTS, ESPECIALLY THOSE RELATED TO REFS A AND C. 4

2. FILE: 15-5-1-201-299292, 201-284811. E2 IMPDET.

LA COMMENT: A. ALLEGED ANTI-CASTRO CUBAN EXILE CONTACTS IN CHILEAN GOVT.

B. REQUEST FOR INFO ON REF A.

C. EXTRACT FROM FBI REPORT OF 4 NOV 76 ON VISIT IN EARLY 75 TO CHILE BY CUBAN EXILE AND HIS CONTACT WITH "PATRIA Y LIBERTAD."

DATE: 12 NOV 76
ORIG: MARY GINN:RP
UNIT: LA/SB/CH/R
EXT: 1471

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-284811
DO NOT DESTROY

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 016952


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CABLE SECD

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

VR clipian, clasulio,"clops,"
clcia, clopsliTG2, AGC/000
oloms 2

PAGE 01-01

NC 38215

IN051883

P 2721422 OCT 76
FM DIRECTOR, FBI
TO RUEAIIX/DIRECTOR, CIA

SECRET

UNSUBS: BOMBING OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR TO U.S.,
ORLANDO LETELIER, ET AL., WASHINGTON, D.C.,
SEPTEMBER 21, 1976; PROTECTION OF FOREIGN OFFICIALS - MURDER.
REURTEL CITE CIA/DDO 932557 AND CIR-316/04346-75.
THE FBI DID NOT DEVELOP ANY INFORMATION DURING THE INTERVIEW
OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ IN MAY, 1976, THAT WOULD DEVELOP
CONNECTIONS BETWEEN CUBAN EXILES AND THE CHILEAN DIRECTORATE OF
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE (DINA). FOR YOUR INFORMATION, A POSSIBLE
CONNECTION BETWEEN CUBANS AND DINA WAS NOT PURSUED DURING THE
INTERVIEWS OF UTERO.
CLASSIFIED BY 6419, XGDS 2, INDEFINITE.

XGDS 2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# 7.5

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/BLOTTER

FILE, VR. FIRE PS/EG2, I/AN, RID, OPS/INTS, CI 4,

LA 13

SS 4, OSG/IC 2

T 323958

E1A266

PAGE 01

TOR: 2214442 OCT 76

IN 877749

SAGO 35326

TDFIRDO-315/10576-76
HCS-10-772

SECRET 2214132 OCT 76 INTEL

CITE SANTIAGO 35326

TO: DIRECTOR INFO CARACAS.

WNINTEL

SUPDATA: ZHWAHOO FOR HOS REVIEW. PLEASE CALL THE INFORMATION IN THIS REPORT TO THE ATTENTION OF AMBASSADOR POPPER. SOURCE PARA 3-4 IS FUDOUBLE-491 PARAS 6-7 IS FUBARGAIN TAKEN FROM SANTIAGO 34147* and 34389*. RELATED TO OD:K1A. NOT PASSED LOCAL LIAISON. INDEX: BOSCH AND OTERO. CL BY 84869.

FILE: 15-5-1/1.

FILED : 2214132 XXXXX

IID COMMENT: LIFTER CABLE SENT. SENT ELECTRICALLY. TO S&S PER DESK REQUEST.

CROSS FILE COPY 702
201-294811

DO NOT DESTROY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# Intelligence Information Cable:

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NACC SWS NSA TREAS MSC/S 500 NIO CRS
PRIORITY
IN 077749
PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TORA DB-315/10576-76
DIST 22 OCTOBER 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY: CHILE

DOI : MID-APRIL TO MID-OCTOBER 1976

SUBJECT: CHILEAN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION ON CUBAN EXILE
LEADERS ORLANDO BOSCH AND ROLANDO OTERO

ACQ : CHILE, SANTIAGO (21 OCTOBER 1976) FIELD NO. HCS-10.772

SOURCE: SEE BELOW.

1. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 3-4: A MEDIUM LEVEL GOVERNMENT
   OFFICIAL WITH GOOD ACCESS TO OFFICIALS OF THE MINISTRY OF
   FOREIGN AFFAIRS. HIS REPORTING IS FAIRLY RELIABLE.

2. (FIELD COMMENT: SANTIAGO EMBASSY TELEGRAM 10107 OF
   19 OCTOBER REPORTED THAT THE CHILEAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
   AFFAIRS HAD BEEN KEEPING AN EYE ON THE ACTIVITIES OF CUBAN
   EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH. AND WAS NOW REVIEWING ALL
   ITS INFORMATION, PRESUMABLY IN LIGHT OF HIS RECENT ARREST IN
   VENEZUELA.)

3. ON 15 OCTOBER, FOREIGN MINISTRY OFFICIALS ASSEMBLED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

IN 077749
TOFIRDB-315/10576-76
PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

A FILE ON BOSCH AT THE REQUEST OF ADMIRAL PATRICIO
CARVAJAL, MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS. THE FILE
CONSISTS MAINLY OF EXCHANGES OF CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN THE
CHILEAN EMBASSY IN SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA, AND THE FOREIGN
MINISTRY CONCERNING BOSCH'S ARFEST IN SAN JOSE IN MARCH 1976,
AND THE FACT THAT HE HAD CHILEAN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS IN HIS
POSSESSION.

4. THE DOCUMENTS INCLUDED A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, IDENTITY
   CARD. TAX IDENTIFICATION CARD AND PASSPORT, ALL IN THE NAME
   OF RICARDO RAMON DAVANZO CERUTI. THE PASSPORT WAS
   ISSUED IN CHILE IN 1966, AND HAD NEVER BEEN RENEWED. (SOURCE
   COMMENT: CHILEAN PASSPORTS NORMALLY REQUIRE RENEWAL EVERY
   TWO YEARS,) THE PASSPORT CONTAINED ONE CHILEAN EXIT STAMP,
   DATED 1966, AND 'NO INDICATION THAT IT HAD SUBSEQUENTLY BEEN
   USED TO ENTER OR EXIT CHILE. IT CONTAINED MANY EXIT AND ENTRY
   STAMPS INDICATING EXTENSIVE TRAVEL BY ITS BEARER IN CENTRAL
   AMERICA AND PANAMA, BETWEEN 1966 AND MARCH 1970. THE PASSPORT
   AND OTHER DOCUMENTATION WAS SHOWN TO CHILEAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS
   IN SAN JOSE BY COSTA RICAN OFFICIALSI HOWEVER, THE COSTA
   RICANS DID NOT GIVE THE DOCUMENTS TO THE EMBASSY OFFICIALS.

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET
(clanticetton)

IN 077749
TDFIRDB-315/10576-76
PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

5. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 6-71 AN OFFICIAL CHILEAN SERVICE

6. IN MIC-APRIL 1976, THE DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL
   INTELLIGENCE REINA) RECEIVED INFORMATION THAT BOSCH HAD JUST
   ARRIVED IN CHILE WITH A CONTRACT TO ASSASSINATE A HIGH LEVEL
   CHILEAN GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL (UNIDENTIFIED). ACCORDING TO
   DINA BOSCH EVADED AN ARREST ACTION ON 10 APRIL, ESCAPING
   BY A MATTER OF MINUTES BUT LEAVING BEHIND ALL HIS CLOTHES
   AND TWO PASSPORTS.

7. ON 29 APRIL, DINA, HOWEVER, SUCCESSFULLY APPREHENDED
   ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, AN ASSOCIATE OF BOSCH, WHO ALONG
   WITH THE LATTER WAS WANTED AS A FEDERAL FUGITIVE IN THE UNITED
   STATES. IN EARLY MAY, DINA INFORMED THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF
   INVESTIGATION (FBI) OF OTERO'S ARREST, AND SUBSEQUENTLY
   TURNED OTERO OVER TO FBI AGENTS FOR RETURN AND PROCESSING IN
   THE UNITED STATES. (FIELD COMMENT: HVC-7328 (TDFIRDB-315/
   03696-76 ) FROM AN UNTESTED SOURCE WITH ACCESS TO CUBAN
   EXILES REPORTED THAT OTERO WAS PLANNING TO ASSASSINATE
   CHILEAN MARXIST EXTREMIST ANDRES PASCAL ALLEANDE, AND
   THAT HE WAS WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP OF THE CHILEAN
   GOVERNMENT. DIA'S ARREST AND DEPOR TA TION TO THE U.S. OF

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLICENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET
(class Moetion)

IN 077749

TOFIR DB-315/10576-76

PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

OTERO RAISES QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ALLEGATION OF CHILEAN
GOVERNMENT SPONSORSHIP OF OTERO AND HIS GROUP.)

U. FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY AT SANTIAGO; SENT TO CARACAS.
REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN
NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/
CONSULTANTS

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. XGDS-1, 2..

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR JCS SWS NSA SS/ID FBI TREAS
CIA/OPSCEN.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

FBI DOCUMENTS

CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI
DATE: 27 OCTOBER 1976
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 25 AUGUST 1976
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: FRENTE DE LIBERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA
(FLNC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-21892 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SECRET

CABLE SEC DISSEM DY: 28
TOTAL COPIES: 33
STAFF PRECEDENCE

SECRET 072003Z MAY 76 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 34309 (JABAUT ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO IMMEDIATE BUENOS AIRES, PRIORITY CARACAS, SANTO DOMINGO, SAN JOSE.

FUBARGAIN MHSPIKE

REF: SANTIAGO 34147 (CIN 891569)

1. LIAISON CONTACT (IDEN REF) CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED STATION 7 MAY THAT DINA (CHILEAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE) ARRESTED ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ 29 APRIL AND HOLDING HIM INCOMMUNICADO PENDING DECISION RE DISPOSITION HIS CASE.

2. DETAILS NOT YET AVAILABLE TO IDEN BUT UNDERSTANDS GOC CHARGES AGAINST UTERO WEAK AND PROSECUTION UNCERTAIN. HE ATTEMPTING OBTAIN THINKING OF SUPERIORS BUT IN INTERIM AUTHORIZED ABOVE BE PASSED FBI.

3. APPRECIATE HQS INSTRUCTIONS ASAP PERCHANCE GOC DECIDES RELEASE OR EXPEL OTERO.

4. FILE: 201-284811. E2 IMPDET

![Marked checkbox indicating 'TRAVEL PROGRAM' and 'ASSISTANCE']

201-284811

1 May 76

RECORD COPY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 29

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/PLOTTED

ACTION UNIT
LA7
FILE: PLAN, CI4, CLOPS,
ACTION: PSIEG2, OSG, OPOLITGY
T 981640 E1A934 PAGE 01

TOTAL COPIES: 22-1
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
STAFF
IN 914029
TOR12820162 MAY 76
SAGO 34313

SECRET 0822.082 MAY 76 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 34313 (JABAUT ACTING)

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTUR, BUENOS AIRES,
FUBARGAIN MHSPIKE

REFSI: A. DIRECTOR 856972

B. SANTIAGO 34309 (IN 913868)

C. SANTIAGO 34147 (089/569)

1. IDEN REF C ADVISED RE FEDERAL WARRENT AND REQUESTED
   LEGAL PROCESS BE INITIATED WITH INVESTIGACIONES, IN ORDER
   DINA NOT APPEAR IN ANY DOCUMENTATION. ALSO REQUESTED THAT INFO OTEROS ARREST NOT BE SOURCED DINA AS WE PROVIDED INFO WITHOUT HIS SERVICES KNOWLEDGE.

2. FOR BUENOS AIRES: SUGGEST LEGATT TOUCH BASE WITH MR. NICHOLAS LEONDIRIS UPON HIS ARRIVAL SANTIAGO FOR BACKGROUND BRIEFING.

3. FILE: 201-264811 E2 IMPDET.

![TRAVEL PROGRAM]

SECRET
RECORD COPY

201-284811
8 May 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

7-11 МГ.. 10/76

CABLE SEC DIDDEM OV

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADYANCE CORT JESUSD. BLOITEO

ACTION UNIT

LAT

ACTION

FILE VR IPA (SNIDA

CITY 965 080600

T 816222 ETA552 PAGE 01-01 IN 881286

TOR12619062 APR 76 LMIM 24564

SECRET 8618532 APR 76 STAFF

CITE LA/MIAMI 24564

TOI DIRECTOR,

REAM

1. FBI/MIAMI ASKS FOR CONFIRMATION OF FORMER BKHERALD

AFFILIATION OF CUBAN EXILES ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ AND ARMANDO PAULO LOPEZ-ESTRADA INCLUDING POSSIBLE EXPLOSIVE/DEMOLITION TRAINING INVOLVED. BOTH ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION FOR RECENT BOMBINGS MIAMI AREA AND BOTH CLAIM BE EX-BKHERALD.

2. FILE DEFER. E2, IMPDET.

RECORD COPY


SECRET

![travel program abstract]

6 Apri 76

D.201-284498 201-284811


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

TO:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
ATTN: Intelligence Division

FROM:
Deputy Director for Operations

SUBJECT: ROLANDO OTERO, Hernandez

AKA:
OTEPO, Rolando
ROLANDO, Papillon

1.  Reference is made to your request dated 5 May 1976 for information regarding Subject's exployment with this Agency and his envolvement with the Bay of Pigs invasion.

2.  This Agency had an operational interest in Subject beginning in late 1960. Subject was a participant in the Bay of Pigs invasion and in preparation for this invasion, received commando-type training. Association and contact with Subject by this Agency was terminated in late 1962. For your information, the contents of this paragraph was forwarded to our field station in Miani, Florida, in April 1976 for passage to representatives of your Bureau in Miami.

3.  For additional information concerning Subject which may not be known to your Bureas, you are referred to the Department of State and to the United States Secret Service.

CIR-316/01708-76
Encl. 1 name check

IP/EIS: JE/R Martin/dm

BASED ON: DIRECTOR 835967 dated 8 April 1976
FILE IN: 201-254811

![Record Copy]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMP 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE REFERENCE INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF: LA7 INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

OPS LSM/A P/=52

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

850972

DISSEM BY:43

TO: IMMEDIATE SANTIAGO, BUENOS AIRES INFO CARACAS, SANTO DOMINGO,
SAN JOSE.

FUBARGAIN MHSPIKE

REFS: A. SANTIAGO 34309 [IN 913868]

B. SANTIAGO 34147 [IN 891569]

1. FBI HAS BEEN ADVISED OF OTERO'S ARREST BY DINA. FBI NOW
   TRYING ARRANGE HIS EXTRADITION THROUGH BUENOS AIRES LEGATT.

A. BUENOS AIRES: PLS ADVISE LEGATT BUENOS AIRES NAME OF
CHILEAN SERVICE HOLDING OTERO SO EXTRADITION CAN BE REQUESTED.

B. SANTIAGO: PLS ADVISE IDEN REF B OTERO IS FEDERAL
FUGITIVE AND EXTRADITION BEING REQUESTED. IF OTERO RELEASED REQUEST
ADVANCE NOTICE HIS IMMEDIATE DESTINATION AND ONWARD TRAVEL FOR FBI
MONITORING.

2. FILE: 201-284811. E2 IMPDET-A

> [Figure: A table showing program details for TRAVES PROGRAM.]

DATE: 7 MAY 1976

ORIG: BERNICE TURBEVILLE:MM

UNIT: AC/LA/SB/CH

EXT: 1473

OPS/ITG -PAUL PLUMB
<TELECOORD>

C/LA/CAR/DR -DAN SMITH
<TELECOORD>

C/LA/PNC - T.DESMOND
<TELECOORDS>

AC/LA/M&CAM -J.BECKUITH
<TELECOORD>

//-2848.11

7 May 76

> [Figure: Signatures and classification markings]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

IMMEDIATE TRACES from FBI

5 May 1976

Name: ROLANDO OTERO Hernandez - aka Rolando Otero
Rolando Papillon

DPOB: April 18, 1943
SS Number: 262-68-6839

Claimed CIA employment 1960 - 1962 re Bay of Pigs as explosive - demolition
man and intelligence assistant.

Requesting any information

> PIMS COORDINATION
> DATE: 05 MAY 1976
> BRANCH
> I/PS
> AC/LA/C
> INDEXER

I/P/EIS

VIA
OPS/LSN

211-284811


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

FBI DOCUMENT (CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET)

DATE: 25 MARCH 1976

CLASSIFICATION: NOT KNOWN

SUBJECT: NOT KNOWN (RE CUBAN EXILES TO ARRIVE IN CARACAS BY JULY 75 TO EXPLORE THE POSSIBILITY OF ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST CASTRO

![signature]

(DOCUMENT AVAILABLE IN FILE 201-284498, charged TO SA/DO/O)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

COMP: LAS INFO: FILE /PLAN

DATE/TIME GROUP
082143Z DIRECTOR

635787
DISSEM BY: 29
PER SOP
111

TO: LA/MIAMI.Y

KMSTONE TRACE Y

* REF: LA/MIAMI 24564 |IN 861286*|

1. FOLLOWING MAY BE PASSED TO FBI/MIAMI:

A. ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ AND ARMANDO PABLO LOPEZ-ESTRADA WERE BOTH RECRUITED BY BKHERALD IN LATE 196O AND PARTICIPATED IN THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION. BKHERALD CONTACT WITH THEN DROPPED IN LATE 1962. BOTH OTERO AND LOPEZ-ESTRADA RECEIVED BKHERALD SPONSORED COMMANDO TYPE TRAINING IN PREPARATION FOR BAY OF PIGS.

B. OTBERO IS SUBJECT OF NEMEROUS FBI REPORTS IN 1975 AND 1976 AND SHOULD BE WELL KNOWN TO FBI/MIAMI.

2. FILE: 201-284498, 201-284811. E2 IMPDET-A

* FBI/MIAMI ASKED FOR CONFIRMATION OF FORMER BBKHERALD AFFILIATION OF ABOVE CUBAN EXILES, INCLUDING PONSSIBLE EXPLOSIVE/DEMOLITION TRAINING INVOLVED. BOTH ARE UNDER INVESTIGATION FOR RECENT BOMBINGS MIAMI AREA AND BOTH CLAIME BE EX-BKHERALD.

DATE: 8 APRIL 1976
ORIG: P. BELLAMY:CG
UNIT: LA/CAR/CARI
EXT: 1497

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-284811
DO NOT DESTROY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# SECRET

CABLE SEC DIDDEN BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 81

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

ALLIANCE CLEARED DILOTTED

ACTION UNI

FILE

VR

ACTION COPY

ACTION #

773171 E1A810

PAGE 01-01

TOR:192025Z MAR 76

IN 863443

SAGO 33948

SECRET 192012Z MAR 76 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 33948

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTUR INFO LA/MIAMI, CARACAS.

C/LA/SB

DC/LA/SB

C/LA/SS/AR

C/LA/SS/CH

C/LA/SZ/UP

LA/SD Sec'y

TRACE

1. ON 19 MAR SUBJECT OF 201-826416, WHO IS A STATION LIAISON CONTACT. REQUESTED TRACES ON ORLANDO OTERO. SUBJECT CLAIMED OTERO IS CUBAN MEMBER OF UNKNOWN MIAMI BASED EXILE ORGANIZATION THAT HAS BEEN INVOLVED IN BOMBING INCIDENTS IN MIAMI AREA AND OTERO RUMORED TO BE IN CHILE. SPECIFICALLY WOULD LIKE PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION, ALIASES, TYPE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS OTERO MIGHT BE USING. DATA ON HIS ORGANIZATION AND NAMES ANY POTENTIAL CONTACTS IN CHILE. STATION TRACES INDICATE OTERO MAY BE I/W ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ MENTIONED CARA 29119. NO TRACES ORLANDO.

2. INDEX OTERO. FILE: 201-826416. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 25 FEBRUARY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: CUBAN NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FLNC)

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

ONF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF 230000Z DIRECTOR

CONF: CLAS INFO: FILE CHIPAN, clops/1764,

026765
DISSEM BY: 29

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO LA/MIAMI, CARACAS. Y

RYDAT MHSPIKE MHPROSE Y

REFS: A. SANTIAGO 33948 [IN 863443]

B. DIRECTOR 806748

C. CARACAS 29049 [IN 822200]

D. DIRECTOR 804531. Y

1. NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ORLANDO OTERO. Y

2. AGREE SUBJECT REF A INQUIRY MAY BE IDENTIFIABLE WITH ROLANDO

OTERO HERNANDEZ (201-284811) WHO SUBJECT REFS B, C, AND D. HE DEPART-

ED SANTO DOMINGO 22 JANUARY 76 TRAVELLING ON U.S. PASSPORT NO.

F-7096536 AND PER REF C HE DEPARTED CARACAS 3 FEBRUARY 76 FOR SANTIAGO

ABOARD IBERIA FLIGHT. HOWEVER, HAS HAS NO INFO ON WHAT DOCUMENTATION

HE USED ON CARACAS-SANTIAGO LEG OF TRIP. OTERO BORN 18 APRIL 43 IN

MARIANAO, HAVANA, CUBA, AND IS DESCRIBED PARA 2 REF C AS WHITE;

FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TALL: 150 POUNDS: BROWN EYES; BUSHY DARK BROWN HAIR. PLS NOTE THAT WE CANNOT PASS DEROGATORY INFO ON OTERO RR

TO LIAISON CONTACTS SINCE HE REPORTEDLY U.S. CITIZEN. Y

3. SHOULD THE LIAISON CONTACT ESTABLISH ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ

DATE: 22 MARCH 1976

ORIG: U.A. CANTRELL

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 018952


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP

DIRECTOR

826765

PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

AS IDENTICAL TO THE REF A INQUIRY, SUGGEST STATION DIRECT ANY FURTHER QUERIES FROM THEM RE OTERO TO APPROPRIATE EMBASSY OFFICER. YOU MAY ALSO WISH TO ADVISE LEGAL ATTACHE OF REF A INQUIRY ON HIS NEXT TRIP TO SANTIAGO, SINCE OTERO IS FEDERAL FUGITIVE. Y

4. FILE: 201-826416; 201-284811. E2 IMPDET.

DATE: 22 MARCH 1976

ORIG: U.A. CANTRELL

UNIT: C/LA/SB/CH

EXT: 1471

OPS/ITG - OLIVER SILSBY (TELECORD)

C/LA/NW - T.J. DESMOND (TELECORD)

DC/LA/CARR- U.L. SMITH (TELECORD)

SECRET

C/LA/SB

JE 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 018952


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

U.S. SECRET SERVICE DOCUMENT

CABLE FROM SS HOS INTEL INVISION (PIE) FILE 650.0

USSS 8738.

DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ALLEGED PLAN TO ASSASSINATE SZC.
KISSINGER IN VENEZUELA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# SECRET

14-00000

IID_PER JCR

7-3

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

RUN BY

1.2, IMPDET
CL, BY: 006687

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

AGENCY MESSAGE

ADVANCE COPY SODLOTTER 110, SDOLA-RD-DI40
ACTION UNIT 1 FILE, VR, DDO, PS/EG2, IP/AN, IID, OPS/INT 5, CI 4,
LA 27 2 SS 4. SS/SOG 4, LSN/ID, OPS/IT6 4.
ACTION

T 689952 EIA614 PAGE 01 IN 828992
TOR11721372 FEB 76 CARA 29119

SECRET 1721002 FEB 76 INTEL TDFIRDO-315/01696-76
HVC-7328
CITE CARACAS 29119

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO, BRASILIA, RIO DE JANEIRO, LIMAT
BOGOTA, SAN JOSE, GUATEMALA CITY, BUENOS AIRES.

INTEL VWLOFTY

SUPDATA: ERWAHOO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION. SOURCE: WKSCARLET/
(1~828704)
WKSCARLET-3 (SEE CARACAS 29109). OD OBJECTIVE: J.1.

NOT FOR PASSAGE LIAISON. INDEX: PASCAL, CASTRO.

OTERO, BOSCH. FILE DEFERRED. CL. BY 059820.

FILED: 1721002

CIID COMMENT: LA DIVISION REPORTS OFFICER CHANGED BYLINE BY DELETING: "HIS
RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED." AND INSERTION OF ANOTHER
RELIABILITY STATEMENT; HE ALSO DELETED "FRANK CASTRO" FROM
PARA 2 AND INSERTION OF "ANOTHER OTHER" THERE. LIFTER CABLE SENT.

![signature]

SECRET HVC-7328

17 FEB 76 18 32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE/INR JCS/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC SWS NEA TREAS MBC/8 800 NIO сав
(SY/I/PIB) SS/ID FOI SECUROMS

PRIORITY
IN 826992
PAGE 1 OF 2 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO
CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF RIPORT.
THIS IS AN INFORMATION REFORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

CITE IDFIR DB-315/01696-76
DIST 17 FEBRUARY 1976

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WARNING NOTICE--SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASEABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--
NOT RELEASEABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA/CHILE

DOI : 16 FEBRUARY 1976

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE ATTEMPT ON THE LIFE OF A RELATIVE OF FORMER
PRESIDENT SALVADOR ALLENDE

ACQ : VENEZUELA, CARACAS (17 FEBRUARY 1976) FIELD NO. HVC-7328

SOURCE : A BUSINESSMAN WITH CLOSE TIES TO THE CUBAN EXILE
COMMUNITY. HE IS A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE.

1. ANTI-CUBAN GOVERNMENT EXILES ARE CURRENTLY IN CARACAS,
   VENEZUELA. WITH THE INTENTION OF KILLING LUIS ANDRES PASCAL
   ALLENDE. A RELATIVE OF FORMER CHILEAN PRESIDENT SALVADOR
   ALLENDE. (SOURCE COMMENT: PASCAL'S EXACT CONNECTION WITH
   SALVADOR ALLENDE OR HIS CURRENT ACTIVITIES IN CARACAS ARE UNKNOWN.)

2. THE ATTEMPT AGAINST PASCAL IS TO BE CARRIED OUT BY
   ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ AND OTHER MEMBERS OF
   CUBAN EXILE GROUPS, ALTHOUGH IT IS UNCLEAR AS TO WHETHER
   OTERO HAS ACTUALLY ARRIVED IN CARACAS. HE IS EXPECTED TO BE IN
   CARACAS BY THE EVENING OF 17 FEBRUARY 1976.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

FORM 3007 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

IN 826992
TOFIR D8-315/01696-76-
PAGE 2 OF 2 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

3. THE CUBAN EXILES CLAIM TO BE WORKING UNDER THE SPONSORSHIP OF THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT. FURTHERMORE. THE ATTEMPT AGAINST PASCAL IS BEING CARRIED OUT BY THE CUBANS IN RETURN FOR UNSPECIFIED AID GIVEN EXILES SUCH AS ORLANDO B O S C H AVILA. (FIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT INDICATING THAT THE CHILEAN NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE (DINA) IS SUPPORTING THE LATIN AMERICAN ANTI-COMMUNIST REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRAL), A CUBAN EXILE GROUP LED BY BOSCH, SEE HVC-7280, FIR-311/01933-75 OF LATE DECEMBER 1975. FROM A SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.)

4. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, DEFATT, SECRET SERVICE AT CARACAS; SENT TO SANTIAGO, BRASILIA; RIO DE JANEIRO, LIMA, BOGOTA, SAN JOSE, GUATEMALA CITY.

REPORT CLASS S E C R E T--WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INGELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASEABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY 58(2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO: STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, JCS, NSA, SWS, SS/1; FBI, CIA/OPSCEN.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF 1223102 DIRECTOR 806748
CONF: LA15 INFO: FILE OPS/INT SECURY LSN/10 DISSEM BY:47
OPS/ITGS IRMAN DOO 100/00 DINO 2 PER LA

TO: SANTIAGO INFO CARACAS.Y

VWLOFTY Y

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 803889

B. DIRECTOR 804531 (BEING RELAYED SANTIAGO)

C. CARACAS 29049 #|IN 6222001 Y

1. VIEW KISSINGER'S SOUTH AMERICAN TRAVEL CITED REF A AND SECRET SERVICE INTEREST IN WHEREABOUTS OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, SUGGEST SUBSTANCE REF B AND C BE BROUGHT TO EMBASSY ATTENTION FOR SUCH ACTION THEY DEEM APPROPRIATE. (FYI: SANTIAGO EMBASSY WAS INFO ADDRESSE ON CARACAS LIMDIS EMTEL 1550 DATED 9 FEB WHICH STATES OTERO DEPARTED FOR SANTIAGO BY AIR ON 3 FEB 76.34

2. THIS IS PRIMARILY FBI/STATE MATTER AND ACCORDING FBI OTERO IS NATURALIZED U.S. CITIZEN. HOWEVER, PER REF A, SHOULD INFO RE OTERO COME TO STATION'S ATTENTION, ESPECIALLY ANY INDICATION HE MAY TRAVEL TO CITIES LISTED ON KISSINGER INTINERARY, NOTIFY HAS AND APPROPRIATE STATION BY PRIORITY CABLE.Y

3. FILE: 201-2848ll. EZ IMPDET.N

DATE: 11 FEBRUARY 1976/1605
ORIG: JOE HARTMANN/DJT
UNIT: LA/SB/BCH
EXT: 1471

201-284811
12 Feb 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY: LA 6
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:
TOTAL COPIES: 39
SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED-BLOTTED: LA
ACTION UNIT: LA15
ACTION:
RF: R/AN
FILE: P5/62
VR: 054
O: OPS/TC-5
E/I/485
01-4
SERVICE of LSN/ID
DDD: DIVI-2
PAGE 01-01
T 675418
IN 823200
TOR:111519Z FEB 76
SDOM 17119

SECRET 111505Z FEB 76 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 17119

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, SANTIAGO INFO CARACAS.

REFSI A: CARACAS 29049 (N822200)
B. DIRECTOR 804531

1. EMPYREX REPORTS THAT ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ,
   BORN 18 APRIL 1943, TRAVELLING ON U.S. PASSPORT NUMBER
   F-796536, DEPARTED SANTO DOMINGO 22 JANUARY ON VIASA FLIGHT
797. 
2. FILE: 201-0284811, 22-8-7, 200-6-495. E2 IMPDET.

![TRAVEL PROGRAM ABSTRACT FOR FRL REST. COCE CABLE IDEN (11) INFO (2) FER FENG]

RECORD COPY
SECRET

D22-8-7
D200-6-495/3
11 FEB 76
201-284811


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF O 0 0 0 0 0

S E C R E E T

CONF: C/LA7 INFO: FILE CIR/AN, C/LSN/ID ClOps/lTEs, Clops

TO: PRIORITY SECRET SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS.Y

SUBJECT: ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ.Y

(CIR-3126/20-024-76-V)

1. THIS AGENCY QUERIED THE APPROPRIATE REPRESENTATIVES IN CARACAS AND SANTO DOMINGO REGARDING THE WHEREABOUTS OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ, AS REQUESTED BY YOUR SERVICE IN A TELEPHONE CONVERSATION ON 6 FEBRUARY 1976. OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN CARACAS RESPONDED THAT ACCORDING TO A USUALLY RELIABLE SOURCE OTERO WAS ORGEDD EXPELLED FROM VENEZUELA TO SANTIAGO, CHILE, ON 3 FEBRUARY 1976. IT IS POSSIBLE THAT THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION HAS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON SUBJECT.Y

2. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.8860. 11652. EXEMPTION CATEGORY SB (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC

DECLASSIFICATION.A

![declassification form]

201-284.811

*11 Feb 74*

-201-284822

SECRET D200-6-495/14 D22-9-8

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: C129103


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

PAGE 2 OF 2

CONF: INFO: FILE CIA 805724 DISSEM BY:

BASED ON: CARACAS 29049 (IN 622200) 8210 FEB 76
DIRECTOR 604531, 9 FEB 76
PROJECT: UKMAYOR CUKSCARLET-93
OBJECTIVE: J

CABLE SEC: PLS MAKE COPIES OF THIS CABLE AVAILABLE TO IP/AN
FOR 203-284822, EDMSITE 200-6-495, 22-9-8

C/LA/CAR-

C/LA/NW/V ROBERT W. ANDREWS DRAFT

DATE: 11 FEBRUARY 1976
ORIG: GERI DUGGAN
UNIT: LA/CAR
Ext: 1249

C/CPS/LSN

SECRET

REPRODUCT BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

C/LAD

IMPDET CLBY: 012913


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# SECRET

CABLE EEI DISSEN BY 29

TOTAL COPIES: 33

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:

ASIATICS FORTUL LLOTTED LA

DICOU A 7/201

FILE VR OPS/INT, SECUCY

LSN/IO, OPS/ITGS, SPLAN, DOO,

200/00, 01002

T 673268 E1A201 PAGE 01-01

IN 226200

TOR11021162 FEB 76 CARA 29209

SECRET 1021102 FEB 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 29049

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY SANTO DOMINGO, SANTIAGO.

VALOFTY

REFI DIRECTOR 804531 (NOT SENT SANTIAGO)

1. ACCORDING WKSCARLET-9 ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ WAS EVICTED FROM VENEZUELA TO SANTIAGO ON 3 FEB 76. LEGATT CARACAS COMMENTS THAT OTERO ARRIVED VENEZUELA FROM DOMREP 22 JAN 76, WAS "ALLOWED TO LEAVE" VS. "EVICTED" ABOARD IBERIA FLIGHT TO SANTIAGO, AND IT DOUBTFUL HE CAN BE GOTTEN OUT OF CHILE.

2. FILE: 201-0284811, 22-8-7, 200-6-495. E2, IMDPET.

![table]

D-22-8-7

D-260-6-495/14

SECRET

RECORD COPY

201-0284811

10 Feb 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# OUTGOIN MESSAGE

STAFF

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE TIME GROUP: 092322Z

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 804531

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS, SANTO DOMINGO.V

VULOFTY 4

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 803889 [*]

B. DIRECTOR 705055 [**]

C. DIRECTOR 704047 [***] Y

1. FOLLOWING IS PER SANTO DOMINGO EMBTEL 325, 22 JAN 76:
   WARRANT FOR ARREST OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ (201-2848113
   ISSUED MID-JAN 76 FOR FIVE PIPEBOMB EXPLOSIONS WHICH TOOK PLACE IN
   MIAMI 4 DEC 75. MIAMI FBI SOURCES CLAIMED SUBJ FLEW TO DOMINICAN
   REPUBLIC 4 JAN 76, AND ON 22 JAN 76 PROMINENT DOMINICAN NEWSPAPER
   STATED OTERO HAD BEEN ARRESTED 17 JAN ON CHARGE OF VIOLATING
   PROHIBITION AGAINST HIS ENTRY INTO DOM REP. IN CONVERSATIONS WITH
   FBI AND US EMB CONSULAR OFFICER, DOMINICAN POLICE OFFICIALS
   INDICATED DISPOSITION TO EXPEL HIM FROM COUNTRY AND TO DETAIN HIM
   UNTIL THIS WAS ARRANGED. US EMB CHARGE INFORMED APPROPRIATE
   DOMINICAN OFFICIALS (FOR PASSAGE OF INFO TO PRESIDENT BALAGUER) OF
   US INTEREST IN OTERON'S RETURN TO US TO FACE CHARGES AGAINST HIM.
   HOWEVER, POLICE CHIEF INFORMED CONSUL GENERAL THAT HE HAD ORDERS

DATE:
GRIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
D-22-8-7
D-200-6-495/14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMP 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE DIRECTOR 804531

TO RELEASE OTERO AT NOON ON 20 JAN. US EMB REPORTED THAT AS OF 22 JAN IT NOT CLEAR WHERE OTERO LOCATED. ONE SOURCE REPORTEDLY TOLD MIAMI HERALD THAT OTERO HAD LEFT THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, BUT MIAMI HERALD CORRESPONDENT WHO AT THAT TIME (22 JAN) IN SANTO DOMINGO TOLD CONGEN HE HAD DRINKS WITH OTERO THE NIGHT BEFORE. NO INFO SINCE THAT TIME ON OTERO'S WHEREABOUTS.

2. BECAUSE OF REF B AND C INFO RE OTERO'S ACTIVITIES IN CARACAS, THERE POSSIBILITY HE MAY BE IN VENEZUELA AGAIN. IN LIGHT OF REF A, PARA TWO, AND AT REQUEST OF SECRET SERVICE, REQUEST ADDRESSEES ATTEMPT TO FIND OUT IF OTERO IS IN EITHER COUNTRY. HAS WILL INFORM SECRET SERVICE OF RESULTS. OTERO DESCRIBED AS WHITE: FIVE FEET EIGHT INCHES TALL; 150 POUNDS; BUSHY DARK BROWN HAIR; BROWN EYES.

3. FILE: 201-284811, 22-8-7, 200-6-495. E2.IMPDET.

*FBI INFO ON ROLANDO OTERO WHO BELIEVED SENT TO VENEZUELA ON MISSION AGAINST CUBAN DIPLOMATIC CORPS THERE

**ADDITIONAL FBI INFO ON OTERO

***KISSINGER'S LA ITINERARY. PLS ADVISE OF ANY SUBVERSIVE OR DANGEROUS PERSONS IN COUNTRIES TO BE VISITED

DATE: 9 FEB 76
ORIG: K. BLEVINS
UNIT: LA/CAR/DRH
EXT: 1528

C/LA LA/NU ::C/CA/CAR

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

STATE LEPT CABLE

FROM AKEMEASSY SANTO DOMINGO 325

DATE: 22 JANUARY 1976

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUPJECT: CODR ARREST AND RELEASE OF ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ WANTED IN THE U.S. ON CHARGE OF BOMBING FED BUILDING


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

FEI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 16 JANUARY 1976

CAELE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED

SUBJECT: ROLANDO OTERO HERNANDEZ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

STAFF

TO: CARACAS INFO SANTO DOMINGO Y

MHSPIKE Y

REF: DIRECTOR 704047 Y

1. SOURCE OF REF FURNISHED FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL INFO 3 JUNE 75:

ACCORDING TO ARMANDO LOPEZ ESTRADA, ROLANDO OTERO IS IN CARACAS AS A "PATHFINDER" OR ADVANCE MAN FOR GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES WHO ARE TO ARRIVE IN CARACAS BY JULY 1975 TO EXPLORE POSSIBILITY OF AN ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAINST FIDEL CASTRO RUZ WHO IS EXPECTED TO BE IN CARACAS FOR A CONFERENCE OF LATOIN AMERICAN HEADS OF STATE IN JULY 1975. THIS PLAN MAY BE A JOINT EFFORT BY MEMBERS OF FLNC ACCION CUBANA (ANTI-CASTRO ORG OF CUBAN EXILES LED BY ORLANDO BOS COH, CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST, WHO IS PAROLE VIOLMATOR BELIEVED TO BE IN HIDING IN SOUTH AMERICA), AND BRIDGADE 2506 (ORGANIZATION OF BAY OF PIGS VETERANS) WITH WHOM LOPEZ ESTRADA IS FRIENDLY. OTERO IS TRYING TO OBTAIN INFO REGARDING FIDDEL CASTRO'S VISIT AND SECURITY MEASURES PLANNED TO PROTECT HIM. OTERO RECENTLY SPENT SEVERAL DAYS IN COLOMBIA BEFORE RETURNING TO VENEZUELA WHERE HE IS BEING CLOSELY WATCHED BY VENEZUELAN AUTHORITIES GUNDER DIRECTION OF ORLANDO

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

CROSS FILE CO.:
20-28484

DO NOT DESTROY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

0 0 0 0 0

SECRET
MESSAG HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

705055

G ADR C I A VASQUEZ, MINISTER-COUNSELOR OF FOREIGN MINISTRY (SIC)

WHO HAS BEEN INFORMED BY SOURCE OF OTERO'S ALLEGED MISSION. Y

2. FILE: 19-300-26, 201-264811. E2, IMPDET. H

*ADDITIONAL INFO ON ROLANDO OTERO AND HIS ACTIVITIES.

![image of signature]

DATE: 6 JUNE 1975

ORIG: ELISABETH EVETTER/MVD

UNIT: LA/CAR/DRH

EXT: 9155

![signature of RICHARD S. LAMPSON]

![signature]

LA/COG-

![signature]

OPS/ITG

![signature]

ALFONSO SPERA
C/LA/CAR

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 010316

SECRET

OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FRI

DATE: 4 JUNE 1975

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SURJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# SECRET

STAFF

CONF: LAIO INFO: FILE XP/AN, LSN/10, OPS/IT65,
c/OPS DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
704047
DISSEM BY: 15

TO: CARACAS INFO SANTO DOMINGO.V

1. FOLLOWING RECEIVED FROM RELIABLE SOURCE OF FBI, MIAMI:

ROLANDO OTERO (201-284811) (BORN 18 APRIL 41, MARIANAO, HAVANA, CUBA), BAY OF PIGS VETERAN, NATURALIZED U.S. CITIZEN LIVING MIAMI, MEMBER OF MIAMI PARACHUTING GROUP KNOWN AS "GOLDEN FALCONSO--COMPRISED MAINLY OF CUBAN EXILES--LED BY CUBAN EXILE NAMED FRANK CASTRO.

A LEADER OF THE FRENTE DE LIBERACION NACIONAL DE CUBA (FLNC), WHO CURRENTLY LIVING IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, VISITED FRANK CASTRO IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC FOR TWO DAYS IN EARLY MAY 75. CASTRO GAVE OTERO $250 AND TOLD HIM TO CONTACT RUBEN M AGRTINEZ, A CUBAN LIVING IN CARACAS, WHOM OTERO HAD NEVER MET. OTERO WENT TO CARACAS WHERE MARTINEZ PROVIDED HIM WITH A ROOM AT CAPRI HOTEL AND PROMISED TO ARRANGE FOR AN EXTENSION OF OTERO'S VISA AND FOR PAPERS TO ENABLE OTERO OBTAIN JOB IN CARACAS. THRU INQUIRIES, OTERO LEARNED THAT TWO CUBAN COMMO TECHNICIANS, LIVING AT TAMPA HOTEL INE CARACAS, WERE LOOKING FOR AN APPROPRIATE LOCATION FOR CUBAN EMBASSY TO BE ESTABS808-BLISHED. OTERO FIRST CLAIMED THAT WHILE IN DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, HE DID NOT SEE HUMBERTO LOPEZ, JR., BUT LATER ADMITTED LOPEZ WAS

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

CROSS FILE COPY FOR
201-284911.

DO NOT DESTROY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# SECRET

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

*04047

THERE. LOPEZ, A LEADER OF FLNC, IS A FEDERAL BOND DEFAULT FUGITIVE AFTER CONVICTION OF VIOLATION OF FEDERAL FIREARMS LAUS AND JUMPED BOND AFTER CONVICTION IN A MIAMI COURT ON CHARGES STEMMING FROM AN ACCIDENTAL BOMBING IN MARCH 75 WHICH SERIOUSLY INJURED LOPEZ AND AN RASSOCIATE. ON 28 MAY 75, LOPEZ ESTRADA (FNU), FORMER ROOM-MATE OF OTERO IN MIAMI, SAID OTERO WAS IN CARACAS FOR AN "ACTION" AND WOULD BE JOINED THERE SHORTLY BY HUMBERTO LOPEZ, JR. ON SAME DATE, CIRO ORIZONDO, WHO LIVED WITH OTERO UNTIL OTERO LEFT FOR DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, SAID THAT OTERO HAD BEEN SENT TO CARACAS BY FRANK CASTRO AND WAS GOING TO "GET IN TROUBLE DOWN THERE." BASED ON ABOVE, SOURCE BELIEVES OTERO'S MISSION IN CARACAS MAY BE BOMBING ATTEMPT OR ASSASSINATION ATTEMPT AGAIBENST CUBAN DIPLOMATIC CORPS MEMBERS IN CARACAS. SOURCE ALSO BELIEVES LOPEZ ESTRADA BRAND ORIZONDO NOT INVOLVED IN ALLEGED PLOT. Y

2. ASSE LEGAL ATTACHE IN CARACAS HAS ABOVE INFO WHICH STATION. MAY DISCUSS WITH HEM. Y

3. FILE: 19-300-26, 201-284811. E2 IMPDET.A

DATE: 4 JUNE 1975

ORIG: ELISABETH L. VETTER/MVD

UNIT: LA/CAR/DRH

EXT: 9156

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI

DATE: 31 MAY 1975

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SURJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

OTERO ROLANDO

RIMENART JESSICA Sept26-45 Miami-Fla. July 6-1963, Miami-Fla.

FAMILY NAME: Otero
FIRST NAME: Rolando
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH: (Unknown)
CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE: (Unknown)
FAMILY NAME: Hernandez
FIRST NAME: Maria
DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH: March 19-1919 Pirar dal Rio-Cuba
CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE: Miami-Floride USA,-

| STREET AND NUMBER          | CITY       | PROVINCE OR STATE | COUNTRY | FROM MONTH | YEAR | TO MONTH     | YEAR |
| -------------------------- | ---------- | ----------------- | ------- | ---------- | ---- | ------------ | ---- |
| 1400 University Ave.       | New York   | New York          | USA     | April      | 1966 | PRESENT TIME |      |
| 61 Hudson St.              | Yonkers    | New York          | "       | Aug.       | 1965 | March        | 1966 |
| 2026 S.Sepulveda           | L. Angeles | California        | "       | Jan.       | 1964 | July         | 1965 |
| 11111 National Blvd.       | "          | "                 | "       | Apr.       | 1963 | Dec.         | 1963 |
| Cuban Prison (Bay of Pigs) | Havana     | Havana            | Cuba    | Apr.       | 1961 | Dec.         | 1962 |

Allstate Investigation 2085 Lexington Ave. NYC.- Investigatorfpril 1966 PRESENT TIME
Betty Lou Inc. 463 West 7th Avenue New York, N.Y. Clerk Jen. 1967 Fresent
Klite Laundry 333 East 105th St. New York, B.Y. Clerk Oct. 1966 Dec. 1966
Consolidated Laundry 48 Dagle Avenue Brooklyn, H.Y. Clerk Aug. 1966 Sept. 1966
Meis Dadge Babirshaw, Point Street Yonkers, N.Y. Klec.Operat.Jan. 1966 July 1966
Ricer & Driadnan Property 116 West 14th St, MIC Buperintend.April 1966 present-tine

Ave.57 No.10212 Marianso-Eavana 1957 59 Student-Havana-Cuba 1959

2-13-67

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# VISA ACTION REQUEST

TO:
FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

*   Office of Security 15/1-Department of State
*   Immigration and Naturalidation Service at

FROM:
March 1, 1965
Anconsul, VIAC VER

ACTION REQUESTED (Check only one)

*   Security advisory opinion
*   212(d)(3)(A) waiver
*   Name check only
*   Chind background check
*   "Parakeet" name check
*   visa Office (VO) - Department of State

IF SIMORSKAI WAIVER, INDICATE WHLINER

*   Security - 212(a)(28)
*   Other - 212(a)
*   Recommended by consular officer
*   Submitted at request of alien

1. NAME OF APPLICANT (include aliases, maiden name; previous name, etc.)

Orin, Kolando

2. DATE OF BIRTH (mo, day, yr.)
   April 10/1913

3. PLACE OF BIRTH (city, province, country)
   Havana, Cuba

4. PRESENT ADDRESS
   2626 S. Sepalveda blvd., Los Angeles 64, Calif.

5. DISTINGUISHING MARKS OF IDENTIFICATION
   None

6. SEX
   Male

7. MARTIAL STATUS
   married

8. ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. (if any)

9. OCCUPATION (present and former, if pertinent, Include name and address of present employer)
   Electronic Assembler - Packard Bell :lectronic Corp. 12333 W. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, 64, Calif.

10. NATIONALITY (including former, if any)
    Cuban

TYPE regular

11. PASSPORT NO.
    ISSUED BY.
    DATE

12. FATHER'S NAME
    Rolando Utero

13. MOTHER'S MAIDEN NAME
    Maria A. Hernandez

14. SPOUSE'S NAME (include maiden name)
    Jessica Rinehart

15. RESIDENCES OF 6 MONTHS OR MORE SINCE REACHING THE AGE OF 16 (years, street addresses, cities, countries)
    Jan./64 - present = 2626 S. Sepulveda Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.
    Apr./63 - Jan./64 = 11111 National Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.
    Aug./60 - Par./63 = Communist Frisso, Lay of Pisa.
    Apr./59 - Aug./60 = 655 27 st., Luyal, Florida
    12/56 - Apt./59 = Ave. 37, 10212, Marianao, Havana, Cuba.
    6/56 - 1956 = Private school, America Arias School

16. RELATIVES IN U.S. (names, street addresses, cities, states)
    Mrs. Margot Hernandez, 2626 S. Sepulveda Blvd., Los Angeles, 64, Calif. (Mother)

17. PURPOSE OF ENTRY (give details in narrative statement if pertinent)
    To reside.

18. ANTICIPATED DATE AND PORT OF ARRIVAL, LENGTH OF STAY AND DESTINATION OR ITINERARY IN U.S.

19. TYPE OF VISA CONTEMPLATED (visa symbol, no. of entries and validity period)
    immigrant visa (D-1)

20. REFERENCE TO PREVIOUS CORRESPONDENCE

21. APPLICANT TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY (give name, date and place of birth, nationality and relationship)

22. REMARKS

*   No record
*   Security Info attached
*   No derogatory Information
*   Other (see remarks)

N.D/ 25 March/65
FILE IN 201-28484

For Name check only, forward original and 6 copies to SY. (Compiste items 1 through 18 only)
For China background check, forward original and 1 copy to SY. Attach photo with alien's name in chinese chacters. (Complete Items 1 through 18 only)
For "Parakeet" name check, security advisory opinion, or 212(d)(3)(A) waiver action forward original and a copies to VO. (See instructions on reverse of last page for preparation of narrative statement to accompany security advisory opinion and 212(d)(3)(A) waiver actions)
For 212(dx3)(A) waiver actions directed to INS abroad, forward ennal and 3 copy. (See instructions on reverse of last page for preparation el accompanying narrative statement)
Use additional sheet for any item for which Insufficient space is provided.

FORM
3-64 FS-493

> [Figure: A stamp on the document indicates "NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR RELEASE OF THIS DOCUMENT 7. MAR 1965"]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

1. SUBJECT (TYPE NAME IN UPPER CASE)

OTERO-HERNANDEZ, Rolando

2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLING, CTC NUMBERS, ETC.

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH
   18 April 1941, Marianao, Cuba

4. CITIZENSHIP
   Cuban

5. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

6. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

7. PAST ACTIVITIES INCLUDING MILITARY SERVICE

| ACTIVITY | LOCATION | DATES |
| -------- | -------- | ----- |
|          |          |       |
|          |          |       |


8. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION) - ADD EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

9. DESCRIPTION

|          |          |        |        |        |         |
| -------- | -------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------- |
| (HEIGHT) | (WEIGHT) | (EYES) | (HAIR) | (RACE) | (OTHER) |
|          |          |        |        |        |         |


10. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

11. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY AND ASSOCIATES

12. INFORMATION REQUIRED (DEFINE SPECIFICALLY. GENERAL TERMS SUCH AS "DEROGATORY" MAY RESULT IN A SEARCH THAT DOES
    NOT FULLY MEET REQUIREMENTS.)

201-284811

# REQUEST FOR GREEN LIST
NAME CHECK N? 130946

DATE 5 Oct 1962

TO CHIEF, FI/D

ORIGINATING OFFICER

NAME A. AMORI
OFFICE DESIGNATOR TV/Ops 88
ROOM, BUILDING GG 14
EXTENSION 7646

13. TYPE OF REQUEST (CHECK ONE)

*   FIRST TIME SUBMITTED
*   ADDITIONAL DATA
*   RECHECK FOR CURRENT

14. INTEREST IN SUBJECT (CHECK ONE)

*   ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY
*   OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE
*   OTHER

# INSTRUCTIONS:

INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY.
SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D. SEE CSI 10-7

FORM 501

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

SECRET

TO: Al Amort

FROM: FI/0

16
DATE

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILLS.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. [X] FI/D HAS NO *PERDEON* INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. except

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

Previous Green List from WH/4, 21 Sep 60, op, GL #104574, NR

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: FI/0

DATE

FROM:

NAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

SECRET

TO: Al Amort

FROM: FI/D

16 OCT 1962
DATE

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. [X] except FI/D HAS NO PERTINENT INFORMATION ON SUBJECT, IF INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT APPEARS AT A LATER DATE, IT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

Previous Green List from WH/4, 21 Sep 60, op, GL #104574, NR

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: FI/D

FROM:

NAME
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING
EXTENSION

DATE

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)