# DISPATCH

TO Chief, Task Force

INFO. FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT Operational/GYROGE
Operational Debriefings

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

Action Required: None.

Reference: UFGA-4088.

During the month of May 1962 the following persons, 'processing through the CAC, were considered to be of operational importance to JMWAVE.

1. Rafael *ARRIBAS Rodriguez (A 12 895 148). Subject, a former Medical Products Salesman, had contacts with two employees of the Post Office in Cuba. The leads he provided were considered marginal and dropped for further operational exploitation.

2. Jose Francisco *AZOR Ores (A 12 911 733). Subject, a rural census taker for the INRA, is undergoing a thorough debrief- ing on OB and cartographic information by the AMOTs.

3. Manuel CABRERA Rodriguez (A 12 911 477). Subject, a former railroad worker in Camaguey and ex-Rebel Army Battalion Commander, was debriefed on positive intelligence information. The results of this debriefing were forwarded to Reports for dissemination.

4. (Dr). Jaime *CARBONELL Rivero (A 12 907 852). Subject, a former night club owner in Havana, submitted two plans to assassinate Fidel Castro. The results of this debriefing were forwarded to Headquarters in UFCA-4176, dated 31 May 1962.

5. Abel Julio *COLINORIO Vasquez (A 12 971 774). Subject, a former Naval Chauffeur and member of the END, is being de- briefed on operational leads and positive intelligence.

6.06 Rafael Rinaldo *DIAZ Veira) (A 12 444 465). Subject, a Pharmacist) and co-owner of a medical testing clinic in Pinaro del Rio, was recruited, trained in SW before he returned to Cuba. JMWAVE plans to start a new collection network centered

(continued)

Distribution:

3-Headquarters

CS COPY

DATE TYPED 25 June 62

DATE DISPATCHED 9 2

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGA-4543

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER 19-120-33

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

4/P/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

## CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

7. Carlos Fernando *GALBAN* Perez (A 12 895 062). Subject, a former theatre employee in Havana, was contacted by fnu (*LLANO*), a private detective in Havana who was his neighbor, just prior to his departure and asked that, when Subject arrived in Miami, he contact Freyre JORGE in the Catholic Bureau in Miami. Allegedly (*LLANO*) had information concerning airfields, pilots and radantinstallations which he wanted to send to Freyre JORGE. Upon contacting the Catholic Welfare Bureau, Freyre JORGE was unknown to them. At the request of JMWAVE, Subject wrote to (*LLANO*) in order to obtain more information concerning (*LLANO*'s) potential. JMWAVE is waiting for an answer to this letter.

8. Antonio *GOICOCHEA* Cosculluela. Subject, a former member of the Legal Department of Cubana, was debriefed on positive intelligence and on the activities of AMWARM-1. The result of the intelligence portion of the debriefing is being disseminated.

9. Antonio *GOMEZ* Hernandez (A 12 419 493). Subject, a medical doctor, returned to Cuba without giving any indication of his plans to CAC, consequently JMWAVE was too late in recruiting him; however, he is scheduled to return to PBPRIME about November. It is possible that Subject will return again to Cuba at that time. If this proves to be the case, serious consideration will be given to recruiting him.

10. Ruben Arturo *HERNANDEZ* Garcia (A 12 911 621). Subject was an MRAC coordinator in Santa Fe, Isle of Pines. Several leads of marginal value were provided.

11. Jose *MONTALVO* Urruti (A 12 911 895). Subject, a pediatrician, came to PBPRIME to visit his daughter who is in a Miami high school and to visit a patient. Subject has an invalid wife and one son currently serving in the Isle of Pines prison after he was captured at Playa Giron. Although he originally expressed an interest in working as an ODYOKE singleton in PBPRIME once he returned, he later changed his mind.

12. Tomas *OLIVERA* Gandoa (A 11 266 803). Subject, a former Naval Chauffeur and member of the FND, is being debriefed on operational leads and on positive intelligence concerning the Cuban micro-wave system.

13. Valentin *PADRON* (A 12 900 229). Subject, a former grocer in Las Villas, was debriefed on operational leads and positive intelligence. The leads which subject provided were considered marginal for further exploitation. Subject had planned to return to Cuba legally but was prevented from doing so for family reasons.

14. Jesus Gregorio *PEREZ*, CKA 183. Subject, working an independent resistance network in Cuba, specialized in exfiltration of friends and members of his group. He offered to exfiltrate any technicians and professional people. After debriefing him, Subject was turned over to the Phi Branch for exploitation.

15. Federico Gaspar *SALVADOR* Rodriguez. Subject, a dentist from Camaguey came to PBPRIME to attend the funeral of his father. He was recruited and trained in SW before he returned to Cuba. He will be used as a communications link for the AMTAUP Net.

16. Gumercindo *SIMON* Sanchez (A 12 911 019). Subject, a former chauffeur in Las Villas, offered to provide bona fides for contacting "Titi" *MARTINEZ*, a communicator for Capt. Felix *TORRES*, a militia commander in Remedios, Las Villas. Subject


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

also offered to re-infiltrate to contact (MARTINEZ). Subject
could not provide sufficient detailed biographic data on
06 (MARTINEZ) with which to risk using a KUBARK internal asset to
contact him. An investigation was initiated through the
AMOTS to determine more biographic data so serious consider-
ation could be given for contacting (MARTINEZ).

17. Manuel Felix SUAREZ Pozo (A 12 903 186). Subject, a lawyer
    and a former underground member in Havana, was debriefed
    further on operational leads. Letters to the more important
    members of his group have been written in an effort to
    establish communications and to exploit their operational
    potential.

18. Miguel Archangel SUAREZ Valdez (A 12 895 991). Subject, a
    former resistance group member, was debriefed further on
    operational leads and is currently expecting a courier from
    the resistance group leader in Havana, who allegedly has agents
    who have access to a Soviet COMINT station.

19. Miguel Angel YANES Garcia (A 12 903 525). Subject, a former
    employee in the Ministry of Public Works and a member of the
    END, was debriefed for operational leads and positive
    intelligence. Subject refused to reveal any FND assets in
    Cuba and he had only margianl intelligence to provide.

END OF DISPATCH


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)