# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 5 PER TOTAL COPIES 46 - 4 RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

|     | RF    | FILE      | VR CIP/DMS  | DCI (FALK) | CS/RF    |
| --- | ----- | --------- | ----------- | ---------- | -------- |
| N   | D003, | PCS/INT   | PCS/LSN     | C/4        | OGC2     |
| O   | OLC,  | DPA SECUR | CONNOS cwoz | EA3        | CL/S/FR2 |

T 651930 EI A932 PAGE 01 ASIATIC C/S/A IN 206462

TOR: 041930Z MAR 77 C/PCS/SSU [CARA] 32 41 4

SECRET 041555Z MAR 77 STAFF

CITE [CARACAS]32414

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RYBAT

REF: [CARACAS]32384 (IN 203537)

1. ON 3 MARCH CHARGE (DCM) TALKED *"INFORMALLY"* TO FOREIGN

MINISTER ESCOVAR SALOM, INFORMATION MINISTER DIEGO ARRIA, AND

PRESIDENTIAL CONFIDANT AND UNOFFICIAL PRESS ADVISOR EUGENIO SOLER,

TO ALL THREE CHARGE MADE SAME TWO BASIC POINTS WITH THOUGHT THESE

WOULD BE RELAYED TO PRESIDENT PEREZ: (1) VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT

HAD MISREAD NEW YORK TIMES STORY; HAD ATTRIBUTED TO *DAVID PHILLIPS.*

STATEMENTS APPARENTLY MADE BY OTHERS; HAD OVER-REACTED TO

WHAT SEEMED TO BE AN EFFORT ON PHILLIPS' PART TO BE HELPFUL; AND

(2) THE USG WAS STANDING PAT ON THE PRESIDENT'S LETTER. NO ONE ELSE

WAS SPEAKING, COULD OR WOULD SPEAK FURTHER FOR THE USG ON THIS SUBJECT.

AS FAR AS THE U.S. WAS CONCERNED, ISSUE WAS CLOSED AND WE HOPED

GOV WOULD SEE IT THE SAME WAY.

2. DURING 3 AND EARLY 4 MARCH IT APPEARS THAT THE CHARGE'S

EFFORTS AND TRADITIONALLY SHORT LATIN AMERICAN ATTENTION SPAN

HAVE COMBINED TO GREATLY EASE CRISIS SITUATION OF LAST WEEK, AT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY__________PER__________TOTAL COPIES__________RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED________________________________________________________________

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED__________BY__________AT__________Z

ACTION UNIT

ACTION #

STAFF

|     | RF. FILE : VR. |
| --- | -------------- |
| 1   | 4              |
| 2   | 5              |
| 3   | 6              |

T 651930 EI A932 PAGE 02 IN 206462
TOR:041930Z MAR 77 [CARA] 32414

LEAST AS FAR AS GOV IS CONCERNED. CAP AND GOVERNMENT SPOKESMEN
HAVE ALL STATED THAT INCIDENT HAS ENDED AND ARE NOW TRYING TO
DIVERT ATTENTION TO OTHER SUBJECTS. MEDIA COVERAGE IS RETURNING
TO NORMAL WITH STORIES OUT OF HEADLINES AND BACK ON PAGE SIX OR
EIGHT, SUPERSEDED BY NIEHOUS CASE, UGANDAN SITUATION, OPEC PRICE
HIKE, ETC. UNFORTUNATELY, EVERY VENEZUELAN WEEKLY MAGAZINE HAS
LONG ARTICLE (S) ON CIA WHICH ARE, OF COURSE, DEFAMATORY, AND
TEND TO WHIP UP PUBLIC ANTIPATHY TOWARDS AGENCY. THEN TOO, THERE
IS STILL MATTER OF DEMONSTRATION AGAINST CIA WHICH TWO DAYS AGO
CAP SEEMED TO BE INSTIGATING IN TWO MEETINGS WITH JOSE VICENTE
RANGEL AND POMPEYO MARQUEZ OF MAS AND JESUS
FARIA OF THE PCV. NEVERTHELESS, ON THE WHOLE, THE INTEREST
IN THIS ISSUE SEEMS TO BE DROPPING OFF AND DYING OUT RATHER
RAPIDLY.

3. LIAISONS WITH DIM AND DISIP CONTINUE AS BEFORE-IF
   ANYTHING, ODDLY WE ARE GETTING A LITTLE MORE OUT OF THESE
   ASSOCIATIONS THAN BEFORE THE FLAP. AMBASSADOR'S INSTRUCTIONS ON
   LIAISON BEFORE HE LEFT ON CONSULTATION VISIT WERE "BUSINESS AS
   USUAL AND LET THEM MAKE FIRST BREAK IF THEY WANT TO". IT WAS
   AMBASSADOR'S OPINION THAT WHILE CAP WAS BLASTING CIA PUBLICLY HE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

7-71-MEG 2/76

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY __________ PER__________________ TOTAL COPIES __________ RUN BY __________

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED________________________________________________________________________________

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY __________ AT __________ Z __________ REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ACTION 'UNIT ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

|          | RF. FILE. VR. | STAFF |     |
| -------- | ------------- | ----- | --- |
| ACTION # | N             | 1     | 4   |
|          | F             | 2     | 5   |
|          | O             | 3     | 6   |

T 651930 EI A932 PAGE 03 IN 206462
TOR: 041930Z MAR 77 21-17
[CARA] 32 41 4

[24 WOULD NOT WANT TO SEVER ALL TIES] ALTHOUGH AMBASSADOR, STILL SOMETHING OF A POLLYANNA AT SUCH TIMES, SERIOUSLY UNDERESTIMATED

CAP'S INTENTION TO [24 PNG TWO OF US] AN ACTION WHICH CAME WITHIN ONE HOUR OF OCCURING. ANYWAY, THOROUGOUT ALL OF THIS [24 BO.TH DIM AND DISIP] HAVE CONTINUED THEIR CONTACTS AND HAVE TRIED TO BE AS

[24 FRIENDLY AND UNDERSTANDING, PERHAPS EVEN COVERTLY HELPFUL, AS SITUATION WOULD ALLOW. TYPICAL OF [LIAISON] ATTITUDE IS [DIM, COLONEL CATALAN'S] CONVERSATION WITH CRYMM DURING PEAK OF CRISIS

HAVING DISCUSSED A VARIETY OF TOPICS OF [24 COMMON OPS] INTEREST,

[CATALAN] ASKED CRYMM, "WELL OTHERWISE, HOW ARE THINGS GOING?"

CRYMM REPLIED , "YOU WHOULD KNOW THE ANSWER TO THAT", TO WHICH [CATALAN] SAID, SOMEWHAT GLUMLY, " YET, I SUPPOSE SO".

4. WE SHOULD NOT FOOL OURSELVES IN THINKING THAT THE WORLD HERE IS NOT DIFFERENT, HOWEVER. WKSCARLET-9 COVERTLY REPORTED THAT DISIP HAS DEFINITELY TAPPED AT LEAST COS'S HOME PHONE, LIAISON OFFICER'S OFFICE LINE, AND TELEPHONES OF EX-COS LABANOW AND JOE MANN, LOCAL NEW YORK TIMES REPRESENTATIVE. CAP HIMSELF INSTRUCTED DISP DIRECTOR TO GO OUT AND GET CIA AND INDICATED TO AMBASSADOR HE WAS HAVING SECURITY SERVICES LOOK INTO CIA CONTACT IN VENEZUELA, PARTICULARLY THOSE WITH JOURNALISTS. TWICE

SECRET
[24
VP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY__________PER__________TOTAL COPIES__________RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED__________________________________________________________________

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED__________BY__________AT__________Z

SECRET

STAFF

|     | RF  | FILE | VR  |
| --- | --- | ---- | --- |
| 1   |     |      |     |
| 2   |     |      |     |
| 3   |     |      |     |
|     |     |      |     |
|     |     |      |     |
|     |     |      |     |

T 651930 EIA932 PAGE 04-04 IN 206462

TOR: 041930Z MAR 77

CARA 32414

IN LAST COUPLE OF DAYS STATION CASE OFFICERS HAVE ENCOUNTERED WHAT CERTAINLY APPEARED TO BE SURVEILLANCES. WKIDET-3 REPORTS THAT LAST WEEK CUBAN AMBASSADOR HERNANDEZ VISITED CAP AND PROVIDED HIM A LIST OF ALL CIA PERSONNEL AND AGENTS THE CUBANS KNOW TO BE OPERATING IN VENEZUELA. SO, AS CAN BE SEEN BY ALL OF THIS, THE RELATIVELY EASY OPERATING CONDITIONS OF THE RECENT PAST NO LONGER PERTAIN- PERHAPS THEY NEVER WILL AGAIN- AND WHILE WE ARE NOT BECOMING PARANOID NOR WILL WE BE UNDULY SPOOKED, WE HAVE ADJUSTED TO THE NEW AMBIENTE AND ARE NOW BEING MUCH MORE CONSERVATIVE AND CAUTIOUS IN OUR ACTIVITIES THAN BEFORE.

5. NO FILE. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)