# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NCI FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPORT NO. CS DB-312/01409-68

DATE DISTR. 28 June 1968

COUNTRY Cuba

DOI Late April 1968

SUBJECT Prison Break at El Principe Prison in Havana

ACQ Canada, Ottawa (25 June 1968)

FIELD NO.

SOURCE An official Canadian service from officials in Havana.

1. In late April 1968 there was a successful prison break at the El Principe Prison in Havana. A group of prisoners escaped by digging a tunnel to the courtyard of a neighboring hospital. After the escape, ex-Major Rolando Cubela Secades, who was convicted in March 1966 for plotting to assassinate Fidel Castro, was transferred from El Principe to a prison in Oriente Province.

2. It was rumored that Huber Matos, imprisoned since October 1959, was one of the escapees. However, according to the wife of a prisoner in La Cabana Prison in Havana, Matos and 20 other political prisoners were still in Gallery 23 of that prison. Although none of them wore prison uniforms, it is said that the authorities stopped being severe with them on this count.

3. Field Dissem: None.

S-E-C-R-E-T NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM/
NO DISSEM ABROAD/BACKGROUND USE ONLY

| STATE | DIA   | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | NSA | XXX | CRS |
| ----- | ----- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| DCS   | FBI 2 |      |      |     |     |     |     |

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

| WHC/RR      | WH/SAO        | E/IB/R | OTTAWA-5480  |       |         |               |
| ----------- | ------------- | ------ | ------------ | ----- | ------- | ------------- |
| WHC/OPS 2   | WHC/JMCOBRA 1 | E/MADR | (IN-37968)   |       |         |               |
| WHC/EW      |               | E/R    | NP (SMACT-1) |       |         |               |
| WHC/PP      | CI/OPS/WH2    | E/OTTA |              |       |         |               |
| WHC/WAVEL   |               |        |              |       |         |               |
| TOTALS IE 2 | CI 4          | FI 3   | CA           | DO 1, | LIAISON | E/BC/C/B "RAQ |
| WH/C 9 (2), | EUR 2 (2),    | WH 1   |              | 14 *  | RRH     |               |


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)