# 104-10291-10021 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

ATION OF ESTABLISHMENT OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

DATE 13 APR 78 FILE NO. 2205

LEF, CONTROL DIVISION, OP
SS NUMBER 058-22-8472

CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION, OP
EMPLOYEE NUMBER 59198

X CHIEF, PCS/CSS (OPERATING COMPONENT FOR ACTION)
ID CARD NUMBER
ATTN: SUPPORT STAFF

REF.
RETIREMENT (CIA)
OFFICIAL COVER
ESTABLISHED

STATUS X STAFF CONTRACT X CANCELLED

SUBJECT UNIT CONTINUED

KENT, WILLIAM M.

KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER (BLOCK RECORDS) X CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER (UNBLOCK RECORDS)

HASIC COVER PROVIDED EFFECTIVE DATE X EFFECTIVE DATE: FOD

OPERATIONAL COVER PROVIDED FORM 3254 W-2 TO BE ISSUED
FOR TDY OTHER (Specify) X (HHB 20-7) CIA

SUBMIT FORM 642 IMMEDIATELY TO CHANGE TELEPHONE SUBMIT FORM 642 IMMEDIATELY TO CHANGE TELEPHONE
LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY LIMITATION CATEGORY TO CATEGORY
(RRB 20-7) X (HHR 20-7)

FORM 3254
(HHB 20-11) -W-2 TO BE ISSUED. NA EAA: CATEGORY 1 CATEGORY 11

X RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS

SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOP ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
COVER. CHR 240-2 X SUBMIT FORM 2688 FOR GEHA
HOSPITALIZATION CARD.

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK

THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN

SUBMIT FORM 1323
RESPONSIBILITY. CHR 240-28
ON TOP OF FILE
EAA. CATEGORY I
SUBMIT FORM 2688

REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY

Subject will be acknowledged as CIA for entire
period of employment and is not to reveal specific
places or locations of cover assignment.s.

DISTRIBUTION:
COFYCO/TRE OR CEO CONTROL
COPY 2 OPERATING COMPONENT
COPY OS/SRC
COPY 4.OC/00/TFa
COFY SCCS-FILE

FORM155 SE PREVIOUS EDITION

![signature]

CHIEF OFFICIAL COVER NCH, CENTRAL COVER STAFF
SECRET WN-SISM E-2. IMPDET CL. BY: 021964 (13-20-43)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: WILLIAM KENT
OPF - 1959-64

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: all material outside of the
1959-1964 period was not
copied

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFI |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |
|               |               |                          |                            |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

REPRODUCTION MASTERS

Handle With Care

SECRET

SECRET
ON CANCELLATION STOP

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

REPRODUCTION MASTERS

Handle With Care

BIOGRAPHIC PROFILE

SECRET

![image of a logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE OF: KENT, William

FROM: Office of the Personnel Director

1. On 6 June 1952 this office arranged with *National Selective Service Headquarters* to have the above-named subject's active duty orders cancelled. This action was taken because, due to his training and experience, it was felt that the subject would be of more service to the United States as an employee of the Central Intelligence Agency than he would be as a member of the Armed Forces.

2. Should the subject resign or otherwise be separated from CIA, please notify this office immediately in order that this cancellation action may be revoked and the subject will be made a free agent.

![signature of GEORGE E. MELCON]

GEORGE E. MELCON
Acting Personnel Director

For the Use of PD(C) or PD(0)

Office of the Personnel Director notified on __________ that the subject has resigned or otherwise been separated from CL.

__________
(Signature)

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

I am aware of the fact that the Central Intelligence Agency, by reason of the sensitive nature of its work, must observe very strict security measures. I agree to honor the requests of CIA relative to my application whether it be accepted or rejected. I agroo not to inform anyone that I am being considered for a posi-tion in CIA. If questioned directly, I will say that I have applied for positions in various government agencies, and if pressed for an answer will acknowledge that CIA is one of them but will attech no particular significance to such application. I agree not to dis-closo porsonnel procedures I have observed in CIA, I agree not to discuss by name or otherwise, any individuals with whom I have talked in the course of my application to CIA.

Signed: William M. K
Date: July 11, 1951

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

AREA KNOWLEDGE (RESIDENCE OR STUL

LANGUAGE FACILITY

CONFIDENTIAL

EVALUATION AND RECOMMENDATIONS (BE COMPLETE AND JUSTIFY DECISIONS, NOTE ANY UNFAVORABLE CIRCUMSTANCES.)
A tall slim boy, dark hair, brown eyes, sallow complexion - nice looking kid - State Dept cover type. He wants a job in govt. although he has been warned by professors - that the salaries are limited, jobs are insecure etc as compared to private industry. He appears to be young but not as young as he actually is. Also wants intelligence type work, Speaks fluent Italian and Spanish - has worked in Latin America (El Salvador) and has graduated from Latin American Institute in New York. Good chem Starting Salary was 3000, but For Livingston at a YS-I

FORMS GIVEN:

MEDICAL

RESERVE

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

REPORT OF INTERVIEW

NAME

William Morris Kent

REFERRED BY

HOME ADDRESS

2448 Washington Ave, New York. 58, N.Y.

THIS DATE

7/11/51

TELEPHONE

86182

DATE OF BIRTH

Mar 29

PLACE OF BIRTH

Italy

CITIZENSHIP (HOW ACQUIRED)

U.S. - 1950

NAME OF SPOUSE

DATE OF BIRTH

Came to U.S. in 1939

PLACE OF BIRTH

CITIZENSHIP (HOW ACQUIRED)

Norman prion

NO. OF DEPENDENTS

INTERVIEWER

SALARY REQUESTED

3000

EDUCATION (SCHOOLS, DEGREES, DATES, MAJORS, EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES)

Recieved High School Diploma in 1942 (Palestine & Lebanon High School)

Majors at Latin American History

MAJOR EMPLOYMENT HISTORY (PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION, SPECIAL SKILLS, SALARY LEVELS)

MILITARY OCCUPATION (RANK, SERIAL NO., DATES OF SERVICE, DUTIES AND AREAS)

Class 4-A - pre military Service

10. 981 37-117

CONFIDENTIAL

(4-11)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

REPORT OF INTERVIEW

TO: CPD

VIA:

12 July 1957

Name of Candidate: William M. Kent

Position Considered for Admin Clerk 6-6 Office FDT/OSO Interviewer Gresham

|             |                  |            |              |
| ----------- | ---------------- | ---------- | ------------ |
| Personal    | Dignified        | Natural    | Award        |
| appearance  | Well-groomed     | Clean      | S venly      |
|             | Wide-Awake       | Solid      | A thetic     |
|             | Impressive       | Ordinary   | I ignificant |
| Personality | Persuasive       | Responsive | To turn      |
|             | Imperturbable    | Steady     | Ex table     |
|             | Cheerful         | Tranquil   | Doubted      |
|             | Straight-forward | Reserved   | Evasive      |
|             | Modest           | Complacent | Committed    |
|             | Dominant         | Confident  | Submissive   |

Is education adequate? Yes (X) No ( ) Is language facility adequate? Yes (X) No ( )

Area knowledge Has lived and worked in Latin America. Fluent Spanish and Italy Italian.

Previous intelligence or related experience None

Salary level requested Lowest Salary Acceptable

GENERAL RECOMMENDATION:

1. Candidate is not recommended for employment. Reasons:

2. Candidate is recommended for employment. Justification Background motivation, personalit

SPECIFIC RECOMMENDATION for employment:

Position: Admin Clerk Branch / Division FDT/050

Location: Guayaquil, Ecuador

Salary Level: $3100 GS-5

RECOMMENDATION as to potential value of candidate to the organization in other than the position immediately under consideration: After Suitable training and field experience subject may quality as operations officer (Enter any additional remarks on reverse side.)

J.L. Gresham

Signature of Interviewer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE

NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

POSITION TITLE

Ops Officer

LOCATION (CITY, STATE, COUNTRY)

New Orleans, La.

TYPE OF APPLICANT

REGULAR CONSULTANT

CONTRACT MILITARY

NAME OF REQUESTER (OR OFFICIAL)

Dow H. Luetscher, Chief/CPD

CLEARANCE

REQUIRED Covert Security Clearance

ATTACHMENTS

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

PHOTOGRAPH(S)

VETERANS STATUS

MALE-VETERAN

MALE-NON-VETERAN

POSITION NUMBER

OCCUP. CODE

ASSIGNMENT (OFFICE, DIVISION, BRANCH)

DDP/WH/JMPOPLAR-12

CONVERSION ACTION

SE-SA

IF OTHER, SPECIFY:

TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS
HOS LIEP

UV

APPENDIX I REQUEST FOR WAIVER

APPENDIX II REPORT OF INTERVIEW

FEMALE-VETERAN

FEMALE. NON-VETERAN

REQUEST NO. (1-5)

42055

REQUEST DATE (6-11)

23 June 1966

YEAR OF BIRTH (29-30)

1929

GRADE (43-44)

GS-13

ORGN. CODE (45-48)

TYPE OF APPL (49)

HOOTRS. & FUND (50)

SECRET CLEARANCE (51)

RECRUIT. CODE (53-54)

VET PREF. & SEX (56)

Security#: 50514

Case Officer: Maurice Currie x6032

Clearance Memo to SA/Branch/CPD

Attn: Jo Ann Varney

5 E 69 x7170

SPACE BELOW FOR OS USE ONLY

FORM 377 USE PREVIOUS EDI VE SECRET MFG. 5-65! (9)
3-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# REQUEST FOR SECURITY CLEARANCE

NAME (Last-First-Middle)

REQUEST NO. (1-6) 73407

REQUEST DATE (6-11)

POSITION TITLE

(12-28) YEAR OF BIRTH (29-30)

LOCATION (City, State, Country)

ASSIGNMENT (Office, Division, Branch)

RECRUIT. REQN. NO. (31-33)

SUB-CATEGORY CODE (36)

TYPE OF APPLICANT REGULAR STAFF CONSULTANT SUMMER ONLY IF OTHER, SPECIFY: OCCUP. CODE (37-42)

CONTRACT TYPE A MILITARY RE-EMPLOY. MIL. GRADE (43-44)

TYPE OF ASSIGNMENT AND FUNDS HQS USF CF V OF ORGN. CODE (45-48)

ATTACHMENTS PHE APPENDIX PHOTO ST REPORT OF REQUEST FOR TYPE OF APPLICANT (49)
INTERVFW WAIVER

VETERANS STATUS MALE-VETERAN FEMALE-VETERAN HEADQUARTERS (50)
MALE-NON VETERAN FEMALE-NON-VETERAN

INVITEE CLEARANCE REQUESTED YES NO CLEARANCE REQUIRED (51)

CLEARANCE REQUIRED PROVISIONAL FOR OTHER (Specify): RECRUITER'S CODE (52-54)
FULL

NAME OF REQUESTER VET PREF. & SEX (55)

REMARKS: OR. MIL. SERVICE (56)

LAST DIGIT ORGN. CODE (57)

FREON. NO. (72-74)

RECRUIT. SOURCE (75-77)

SPACE BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY OS ONLY

APPROVAL GRANTED

PROVISIONAL INVITEE

THIS IS NOT A CLEARANCE FOR ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION, MATERIAL, OR SECURE AREAS. A BUILDING BADGE OR AGENCY CREDENTIAL IS NOT TO BE ISSUED AT THIS TIME.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY

DATE CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION 19.

FORM 377 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET
3-67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

"PAY AEJISTAENT IN ACCEELANCE WITH THE FEEVISIONS OF SECTICA 5305 CF TITLE 5. U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE CADER 1154] FLESLANT TO AUTHORITY OF OCI AS FERVICED IN THE CIL ACT OF 1945, AS AMEREFE, AND ECI CIRECTIVE EATED & CCTCREE 1582."

EFFECTIVE CATE OF FAY ADJUSTMENT: 10 [[TEEER 1576

|              | SERIAL | CREA. FLAES GE-STEF |            | NEW SALAFY |
| ------------ | ------ | ------------------- | ---------- | ---------- |
| KFAT WILLIAN | 055158 | 37 375              | V  65 15 4 | $37,147    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET
(When Filled In)

GJCS 06/30/77
NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

|       | V TO V  | V TO CF  |
| ----- | ------- | -------- |
| FUNDS | X       |          |
|       | CF TO V | CF TO CF |

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
   DDO/CMS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

| MO  | DA  | YR  |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 05  | 23  | 77  |

7 FAN AND NSCA

7020 0008 0002

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

Wash., D.C.

8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

11. POSITION TITLE
    CPS OFFICER O CH

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS LB, etc.)
    GS

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
0136.01

12. POSITION NUMBER
    FSE3

16 GRADE AND STEP
15

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
    DYB

17 SALARY OR RATE

18. REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED 30Jun'22 PAA]

FORAM 1:508
8.72 MFG. 3.76
Use Previous
Edition

SECRET

"E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622"
(4-511)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

PLF 083077

SECRET
(When Filled in)

OCF

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST, FIRST, MIDDLE)

059198 NENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MO DA YR
08 28 77 REGULAR

6. FUNDS 7. FAN AND NSCA 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO V V TO CF 7020 0008 0002 50 USC 403 J
CF TO V CF TO CF

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDO/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS
ASST DEF DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOPMENT
NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF
REFERRAL BRANCH WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER CH 1563 DYR

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 15 4 37167

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hdqtrs 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF (LE)
    CODE Code
    CODE CODE Code
    MO DA YR
    37 10 30125 0000 75013 1 05 09 29

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. Correction/Cancel
    REFERENCE
    DATA CODE

MO DA YR CODE CIA
FICA
NO

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. C 39.
    CODE
    0 - NONE MO DA YR ALTH INSURANCE
    1 - 5 PT
    2 - 10 PT HEALTH INS. CODE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. L
    CODE

0 NO PREVIOUS SERV. OF
1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE
2 BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS
3 BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS.

FROM: CNS SIGN

FORM 1150 Use Previous
5-74 Mfg 10-74 Edition

![photo of kent william m.]

DMB

E2 IMPDET CL BY 007822


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SERIAL NO
NAME ORGANIZATION FUNDS 5 LWOP HOURS
659196 KENT WILLIAM 50 125
6.
Grade Step OLD SALARY RATE
Eff Date
Grade Step NEW SALARY RATE
Effective Date TYPE ACTION
WGI QSI ADJ
GS 15 4 $39.789 05/23/76 GS 15 5 40.555 09/21/78
CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION
CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE
SIGNATURE DATE
17/3/78
CLERKS INITIALS
BP
FORM
10.73 560 E PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

All

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305
OF TITLE 5 U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 12010 PURSUANT 10 AUTHORITY
OF DCI AS FROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND DCI
DIRECTIVE CATED 8 CCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: OS OCTOBER 1977

NAME ID NUMBER ORG. SCH-GR-STEP NEW
SALARY
KENT WILLIAM 0059158 CDDC GS 15 4 $39,789
8659


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

JLS 062878

SECRET
(When filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

UEF

1. SERIAL NU ABED 2. NAME LAST FIRST-MIDDLE

059198 KENT WILLIAM

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION RETIREMENT (INVOLUNTARY) LMDER 'CTFORY OF EMPLOYMENT
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM
AND CANCELLATION OF NSCA

4. 
06 30 78
REGULAR

5. FUNDS
   V TO V
   CF TO V
8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
   PUBLIC LAW 88-643
   CF TO CF
   CF TO CF
   8020 0008 0000 SECTION 235(A)
   10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
   DDO/OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR OPERATIONS
   ASST DEP DIR-OPERATIONS/DEVELOPMENT
   NON-OFFICIAL COVER STAFF
   REFERRAL BRANCH
   WASH., D.C

11 POSITION TITLE
12. POSITION NUMBER
13 SERVICE DESIGNATION
OPS OFFICER CH
FS63
IYB
14 CLASSIFILATION SCHEDULE (G5. WG )
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
15. GRADE AND STEP
17 SALARY OR RATE
GS
0136.01
15 5
40995
18. REMARKS


19 ACTION 20 Emsicy 21 OFFICE CODING
22. STATION
SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL
27. INTEGREE 24 Hdars 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
CODE
CODE
Code
NUMER.C
ALPHABSTIC
CODE

45 10


05 09 29

28. NTE EXP.PES
29. SPECIAL
    REFERENCE
30. RETIREMENT DATA
    31 SEPARATION 22 Correction Concellaton Deta
    IMPE
    DATA CODE
    OGU0000
    EOD DATA

35. VET PREFERENCE
    36 GERY COMP DATE 37 LONG, COMP. DATE 38, CAREER CATEGORY
    39 FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE
40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO
    CODE
    WAIVER
    HEALTH IS CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE
    42 LEAVE CAT 43.
    CODE
    FEDERAL TAY DATA
    44
    FORM EXECUTEO
    STATE TAX DATA
    CODE
    NO TAR EXEMPTIONS
    CODE NO, TAX STATE CODE
    EKEMP
    FORM EXECUTED
    YES
    2 NO

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![Signature]

FORM 1150
Use Previous
Edition

SECRET

E2 IMPOET CL B/ 007622
(4-51)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

28 April 1960
(Date)

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel

SURJECT : William M. Kent

1. Cover arrangements are-in-process, and/or, have been completed for the above named subject.

2. Effective immediately it is requested that your records be properly (blocked) (re-opened) to (deny) (acknowledge) subject's current Agency employment by an external inquirer.

3. This memorandum confirms an oral request of 15 April 1960

Richard J. Billeaudeau
(Name)

cc:SSD/SO

2-1005
(Room)
T-4
(Bldg)

8266
(Extension)

HARRY W. LITTLE, JR.
Chief, Central Cover Branch

THIS MEMO MUST REMAIN
ON TOP OF FILE

SECRET

5-4-60


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

File No. 2205
13 July 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Records and Services Division
Office of Personnel

SUBJECT : William M. KENT

1. Cover arrangements have been completed for the above-named Subject.

2. Effective 10 July 1961, it is requested that your records be properly blocked to deny routing Subject's current Agency employment to an external inquirer.

3. This memorandum confirms an oral request of

cc: SSD/08

For E. MOONIGUSE
Acting Chien Central Cover Group

FORM
1-59 15808


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

NOTIFICATION OF ESTA IMENT OR CANCELLATION
OF OFFICIAL COVER BACKSTOP

TO:
(Check)

X CHIEF, RECORDS AND CONTROL

CHIEF, CONTRACT PERSONNEL DIVISION

X CHIEF, OPERATING COMPONENT (For action) WH

ATTN:
C/WH/Support

REF:

SUBJECT
KENT, WILLIAM H.

DAT
14 Apr 70

FILE NUMBER
059198

EMPLOYEE NUMBER

ID CARD NUMBER

X BACKSTOP ESTABLISHED

OFFICIAL
COVER

DISCONTINUED

UNIT
US Army Staff Group

## KEEP ON TOP OF FILE WHILE COVER IN EFFECT

X ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER BLOCK RECORDS
(OPM 20-800-11)

A. TEMPORARILY FOR ________ DAYS
EFFECTIVE DATE COB ________

B. CONTINUING AS OF/ BOD

CANCELLATION OF OFFICIAL COVER UNBLOCK RECORDS
(OPM 20-800-11)
DATE (as of COB)

X

SUBMIT FORM 642 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(HHB 20-7)

SUBMIT FORM 542 TO CHANGE LIMITATION CATEGORY.
(HHB 20-7)

X ASCERTAIN THAT Army W-2 BEING ISSUED.
(HRB 20-11)

RETURN ALL OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION TO CCS.

X SUBMIT FORM 1322 FOR ANY CHANGE AFFECTING THIS
COVER. (HR-240-20)

DO NOT WRITE IN THIS BLOCK - FOR CCS INTERNAL USE ONLY

X SUBMIT FORM 1323 FOR TRANSFERRING COVER
RESPONSIBILITY, (HR-240-20)

X SUBMIT
FORM 2688
AGK
FOR MOSPITALIZATION CARD

REMARKS AND/OR COVER HISTORY

Dec 51 - Jun 52 DAC/Hg
Jun 52 - Jun 56 DAC/Piritaca
Jun 56 - Jul 58 DANG
Jul 58 - Mar 60 STATE
Mar 60 - Jul 61 NOC/Pia
Jul 61 - Aug 66 DAC/G
Sep 66 - Jun 67 NOC/Field (Domestic)
Jul 67 - Feb 70 NOC/Field (Domestic)

DISTRIBUTION:
OPY 1 - ACC
OPY 2 - OPERATING COMPONENT
OPY 3 - D/DC
OPY 4 - OL/ELSO
OPY 5 - CCS CHRONO
OPY 6 - CCS - FILE

ERF

![signature]

SECRET

CHIEF OFFICIAL COVER, CENTRAL COVER STAFF
(13-20-43)

ORM 1551 USE PREVIOUS EDITION
68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

LML: 15 JAN 73

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

CANCELLATION OF NSCA

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

01 15 73 REGULAR

7. Financial Analysis No Chargeable 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

6. FUNDS X V TO V V TO CF

CF TO Y CF TO CF

3235 0620 0000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH DIVISION
BRANCH 6
CA SECTION

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

WASH., D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

1855 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 14 5 26168

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hagan 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code NUMERIC ALPHABETIC CODE REFERENCE CODE MO DA YR MO DA YR MO DA YR

37 10 51480 WH 75013 11 05 09 29

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. Correction, Cancellation Data 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    DATA CODE TYPE MO DA YR REQ NO.
    REFERENCE CODE CODE

CIA 3- FICA 5 NONE

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG. COMP DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO
    CODE MO DA YR MO DA YR AR PESV CODE WA'VER HEALTH INS. CODE

O-NONE
1.5 Pt.
2.10 PT

PROV TEMP

1-YES

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CA! 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE CODE 47
    FORM EXECUTED CODE NO, TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAXI STATE CODE

0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE

1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE

2-BREAK IN SERVICE ILESS THAN 3 TRS:

2-HREAK IN SERVICE IMORE THAN 3 YRS.:

1-YES

2.100

1-YES

2 NO

EXEMP.

SIGNATURE OP OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature authentication]

![group 1]

FORM Use Pravipus

5.00 1150 SECRET Edicion
Mfg. 11-71

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassificar

when Filled in
(14-5) 12


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH 5 U.S.C. 5305 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER
11691 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVICED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED, AND DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 07 JANUARY 1973

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT CORRECTED FROM
JAN 1975 TO 1 OCT 1972 UNDER EXECUTIVA ORDNA
11977, DATED 12 APR 1974.

| NAME         | SERIAL | ORGN.  | FUNDS | CR-STEP | NEW SALARY |
| ------------ | ------ | ------ | ----- | ------- | ---------- |
| KENT WILLIAM | 059198 | 51 480 | V     | GS 14 5 | $26,168    |


"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 OF
TITLE 5, U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11739 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI
AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND DCI DIRECTIVE
DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 14 OCTOBER 1973

| NAME         | SERIAL | ORGN.  | FUNDS | GR-STEP | NEW SALARY |
| ------------ | ------ | ------ | ----- | ------- | ---------- |
| KENT WILLIAM | 059198 | 51 480 | V     | GS 14 5 | $27,479    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Serial No. Name Cost Center Number LWOP Hour

059189 KENT, WILLIAM M 51 480 V

OLD SALARY RATE NEW SALARY RATE TYPE ACTION

Grade Step Salor Last EM Dare Grade Step Salary Efferhive Date PSI ADJ

GS 14 6 $28,287 12-09-73 GS 14 7 $29,095 02-03-74

Remarks und Authentication

QUALITY STEP INCREASE

//F.W.M. JANNEY DATE: 31 JANUARY 1974

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Form 961 560 Mig. 365 Obsolete Previous Edition



SERIAL NO 2

A

KEAT WILLIAM

CLD SALARY RATE

6-43

LUNDS 15 LWOP HOURS

PEN SALADY RATE

EFFECTIVE DATE TYPE ACTIC.N

GS 14 5 $26,168 12/12/71 GS 14 6 $26,688 12/09/73

27,479 28,287

CERTIFICATION AND AUTENTICATION

ICEPTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAVED EMPLOYEE & ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE

SIGNATURE DATE

CENYS INITIALS BY

rap FWMJANNET

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

DMS: 27 AUG 74

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

## NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1 SERIAL NUMBER

159198

2. NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)

KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4. EFFECTIVE DATE

28 JUL 74

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

6. FUNDS

X V TO Y

V TO CF

CF TO V

CF TO CF

7 FAN AND NSCA

5221 117 2141

8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

57 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDO/PS
CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP
NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH
AREAS SECTION

WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE

OPS OFFICER

12. POSITION NUMBER

0453

13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

090

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS (8. etc.))

GS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

7136.31

16. GRADE AND STEP

14 7

17 SALARY OR RATE

29097

18 REMARKS

HONE BASE:

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

| 19 ACTION CODE | 20 Employ CODE | 21 OFFICE CODING | 22. STATION CODE | 23 INTEGREE CODE | 24 Hidates Code | 25. DATE OF BIRTH | 26. DATE OF GRADE | 27. DATE OF LEI |
| -------------- | -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| 37             | 1              | 37325            | 75013            | 1                | 1               |                   |                   |                 |

28 NTE EXPIRES

| 29 SPECIAL REFERENCE | 30 RETIREMENT DATA | 31 SEPARATION DATA CODE | 32 Correction/Cancellation Data |
| -------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| NONE                 |                    |                         |                                 |
| 2 10 01              |                    |                         |                                 |

33 SECURITY REQ NO

34. SEX

![EOD DATA]

35. VET. PREFERENCE

36. SERV COMP DATE 37 LONG. COMP DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY

39 FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

42. LEAVE CAT CODE

43 FEDERAL TAX DATA

44 STATE TAX DATA

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FROM:

![POSTED]

FORM 1150 Use Previous

SECRET

BBG

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

(4-51)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

FOR PURPOSES OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT, AS AMENDED, YOU ARE DESIGNATED *EXEMPI*.

EFFECTIVE DATE OF DESIGNATION: 01 MAY 1974.

KENT WILLIAM 059198 42354532

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 OF TITLE 5, U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11811 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENCED, AND DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 08 OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 13 OCTOBER 1974

| NAME         | SERIAL | ORGN.  | FUNDS | GR-STEP | NEW SALARY |
| ------------ | ------ | ------ | ----- | ------- | ---------- |
| KENT WILLIAM | 059198 | 37 325 | V     | GS 14 7 | $30,699    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1.  IAL NUMBER: 05 9198
2.  NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE): KENT WILLIAM
3.  NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: REASSIGNMENT-CHANGE OF FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
4.  EFFECTIVE DATE: 08 27 75
5.  CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT: REGULAR
6.  FUNDS: X
7.  FAN AND NSCA: 6221 0117 0000
8.  ESSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: 50 USC 403 J
9.  ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: UDO/PLANS STAFF/CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH AREAS SECTION
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: WASH., D.C.
11. POSITION TITLE: OPERATIONS OFFICER
12. POSITION NUMBER: BL12
13. SERVICE DESIGNATION: DQS
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 18, etc.): GS
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 0136.01
16. GRADE AND STEP: 14 7
17. SALARY OR RATE: 30699

18. REMARKS:

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

| 19. ACTION CODE | 20. Employ Code | 21. OFFICE CODING | 22. STATION CODE | 23. INTEGREE CODE | 24. Hdqtrs. Code | 25. DATE OF BIRTH | 26. DATE OF GRADE | 27. DATE OF LEI |
| --------------- | --------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
| 37              | 10              | 37325 PS          | 75013            |                   |                  | 05 09 29          |                   |                 |

28. NTE EXPIRES:

29. SPECIAL REFERENCE:

30. RETIREMENT DATA:

31. SEPARATION DATA CODE:

32. Correction/Cancellation Data TYPE:

33. SECURITY REQ NO:

34. SEX:

EOD DATA

| 35. VET. PREFERENCE CODE | 36. SERV. COMP DATE | 37. LONG. COMP. DATE | 38. CAREER CATEGORY CODE | 39. FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE CODE | 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO. |
| ------------------------ | ------------------- | -------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| 0 NONE                   |                     |                      |                          | 0 WAIVER                        |                         |
| 1 5 PT                   |                     |                      |                          | 1 YES                           |                         |
| 2 10 PT                  |                     |                      |                          |                                 |                         |

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

42. LEAVE CAT CODE

43. FEDERAL TAX DATA

44. STATE TAX DATA

| CODE                                  |       | FORM EXECUTED CODE | NO. TAX EXEMPTIONS | FORM EXECUTED | CODE | NO TAX STATE CODE EXEMP |
| ------------------------------------- | ----- | ------------------ | ------------------ | ------------- | ---- | ----------------------- |
| 0 - NO PREVIOUS SERVICE               | 1 YES |                    | 1 YES              |               |      |                         |
| 1 - NO BREAK IN SERVICE               | 2 NO  |                    | 2 NO               |               |      |                         |
| 2 - BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS. |       |                    |                    |               |      |                         |
| 3 - BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS. |       |                    |                    |               |      |                         |

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION:

![signature]

POSTED

![posted stamp]

FORM 1150
5-74 Mfg 10-74

Use Previous Edition

SECRET

E2 IMPOET CL BY 097622


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5305 OF TITLE 5, U.S.C. AND EXECUTIVE CRDER 11883 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND OCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 12 OCTOBER 1975

NAME   SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP NEW SALARY

KENT WILLIAM 059198 37 325 V GS 14 7 $32,231


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

KHN: 9 MAR 76

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

59198 KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT AND
DELEGATION OF HSCA

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

73 01 76 REGULAR

6. FUNDS V TO V 7. FAN AND NSCA 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO CF

CF TO V CF TO CF 5221 5117 21:2 56 USC 463 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDO/PS
CAREER MANAGEMENT GROUP
NON OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH

11. POSITION TITLE MASH., D.C.

OPERATIONS OFFICER DOI 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE IGS, LB, UNIT) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES FS03 DQS

16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR GATE

GS 136.01 14 7 32231

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hdqtrs 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code CODE CODE Code

37 15 37325 PS 75913 1 5 69 20

28 INTE EXPIRES 29 SPECIAL 30 RETIREMENT DATA 31 SEPARATION 32. Correction/Cancellation Data
REFERENCE DATA CODE

CODE FLA

NONE

MO DA YE MO DA YE MO DA YE TYPE 33. SECURITY 34. SEX

EOD DATA

35. VET PREFERENCE 36 SERY COMP DATE 37 LONG COMP DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

CODE 0 NONE MO DA YE MO DA YE CAP PROV

1-2 PT

2-10 PT 2557 CODE 0 - WAIVER YES HEALTH INS CODE
TEMP

41 PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA
CODE CODE

0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1 FORM EXECUTED FORM NO TAX

1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE 1 YES YES EXECUTED NO TAX STATE CODE
2 BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 1 YRS 2 NO 2 NO EXEMP

3 BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 1 YRS)

SIGNATURE OR OTHER-AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM 1150 Use Previous SECRET

9-72 Mfg 8-73 Edition

POSTED 10

RCS

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER: 59198
2. NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE): KENT WILLIAM
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION: PROMOTION-CHANGE OF FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY
4. EFFECTIVE DATE:
   MO: 04, DA: 26, YR: 73
5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
6. FUNDS:
   Y TO V, V TO CF
   CF TO V, CF TO CF
7. FAN AND NSCA: (252) 377-1940
8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY: USC AFE
9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS: 000/PLANS STAFF, CAREER MANAGMENT GROUP, TECHNICAL COVER BRANCH
10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION: Hq USAFE
11. POSITION TITLE: DATA ASST GS-301-5
12. POSITION NUMBER: 1454
13. SERVICE DESIGNATION: CG
14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, WK): GS 1113-7
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES: 301
16. GRADE AND STEP: 05
17. SALARY OR RATE: 4899.00
18. REMARKS: CS 0135.01

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

| 19. ACTION CODE                                                                                                          | 20. Employ Code             | 21. OFFICE CODING CODE            | 22. STATION CODE                               | 23. INTEGREE CODE                           | 24. Hdairs Code         | 25. DATE OF BIRTH MO DA YR | 26. DATE OF GRADE MO DA YR | 27. DATE OF LEI MO DA YR |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | --------------------------- | --------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| 27                                                                                                                       |                             | 22                                | 32325                                          | PS                                          | 7017                    | 04 21 51                   | 04 21 73                   |                          |
| 28. NTE EXPIRES MO DA YR                                                                                                 | 29. SPECIAL REFERENCE       | 30. RETIREMENT DATA Code          | 31. SEPARATION DATA CODE                       | 32. Correction / Cancellation Data MO DA YR | 33. SECURITY REQ NO.    | 34. SEX                    |                            |                          |
| ---                                                                                                                      | ---                         | ---                               | ---                                            | ---                                         | ---                     | ---                        |                            |                          |
|                                                                                                                          |                             | K, 1 CA, 2 KA, 3 NONF             |                                                |                                             |                         |                            |                            |                          |
| 35. VET. PREFERENCE Code                                                                                                 | 36. SERV COMP DATE MO DA YR | 37. LONG COMP DATE                | 38. CAREER CATEGORY                            | 39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE Code           | 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO. |                            |                            |                          |
| ---                                                                                                                      | ---                         | ---                               | ---                                            | ---                                         | ---                     |                            |                            |                          |
| 0 NONE, 6 SPT, 7 109                                                                                                     |                             |                                   | CAR, PERV, PROV, TEMP                          | 0 WAIVER, 1 YES, HEALTH INS. CODE           |                         |                            |                            |                          |
| 41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE Code                                                                            | 42. LEAVE CAT CODE          | 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA Code         | 44. STATE TAX DATA Code                        |                                             |                         |                            |                            |                          |
| ---                                                                                                                      | ---                         | ---                               | ---                                            |                                             |                         |                            |                            |                          |
| 0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE, 1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE, 2 BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 31 dS), 3 BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 31 dS) | A1                          | Form Executed: 1 YES, 2 NO, Code: | Form Executed: 1 YES, 2 NO, NO TAX START CODE: |                                             |                         |                            |                            |                          |

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM 1150, 9-72 Mfg 8-73, Use Previous Edition
SECRET
E2 IMPDET CL BY 007622


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET
(When Filled in)

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

**CJCS 11/30/76**

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)

59198 KENT WILLIAM

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REASSIGNMENT

MO DA YR

13 1 76

6 FUNDS X V TO V 7 FAN AND NSCA 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO CF

CF TO V

CF TO CF

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 7221 0008 0002

[CC/CMS 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
DCO/CMS/NOCB/REFERRAL SECTION WASH., D.C.

11 POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13 CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

CPS OFFICER O CH FS63 DYB

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB etc) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

CS 0135.01 15

18. REMARKS

CHANCE OF SERVICE DESIGNATION FROM DO3 TO DYB

![signature]

FORM 1150B
8.72 MFG 3-76

Use Previous
Edition

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

SECRET

"EZ IMPDET CL BY 007622 (4-51)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 89-301
PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DOT AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI POLICY DIRECTIVE DATED 2 OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 10 OCTOBER 1965

NAME SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY
KENT WILLIAM M 059198 51 075 V GS 13 3 $12.915 $13,380



1. Serial Ne. 2. Name 3. Cost Center Number 4. LWOP Hours

059198 KENT WILLIAM M 376

5. 51 075 V

| Grade | Step | OLD SALARY RATE Salary | Lost Eff. Date | Grade | Step             | NEW SALARY RATE Salary | Effective Date | 7. TYPE ACTION PSI | ISI | ADJ. |
| ----- | ---- | ---------------------- | -------------- | ----- | ---------------- | ---------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | --- | ---- |
| GS 13 | 2    | $12,495 06/21/64       | GS 13          | 3     | $12.915 06/20/65 |                        |                |                    |     |      |


8. Remarks and Authentication

/ NO EXCESS LWOP

/ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS- KW AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE: DATE 13 April 65

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Form 560 Obsolete Previous
9-61 Edition

(4-51)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

RZF: 28 DEC 65

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM M

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

12 19 65 REGULAR

6. FUNDS V TO V V TO (F 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

X
CF TO V CF TO OF

6235 0620 0000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH
PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFF
SECTION Ð‘

WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0646 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 13 3 13380

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hdqfss. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code CODE CODE (cde

MO DA YR MO DA YR

37 10 51075 WH 75013 05 09 29

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX

REFERENCE DATA CODE DATA CODE REG NO

CSC

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP CATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

CODE WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE

41 PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA

CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE TAX STATE ODL

1 TES

1 TES

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM 1150 Use Previous

11-62 Edition

SECRET

![group 1 stamp] Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

(When Filied In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

1. Serial No. 2. Name 3. Cost Center Number 4. LWOP Hours

059198 KENT WILLIAM

5. $1.875

| Grade | Step | OLD SALARY RATE Salary | Last Eff. Date | Grade | Step | NEW SALARY RATE Salary | Effective Date | PSI | LSI | ADJ. |
| ----- | ---- | ---------------------- | -------------- | ----- | ---- | ---------------------- | -------------- | --- | --- | ---- |
| 68-13 |      | $13815                 | 06-19-66       | 68-13 | 5    | $14250                 | 06-19-66       |     |     |      |

8. Remarks and Authentication

QUALITY STEP INCREASE

/s/ Emmett R. Echols Date: 08 June 1966

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Form
951 560 Obsolete Previous Edition (451)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 89-504
PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATED & OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 3 JULY 1966

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY
KENT WILLIAM M 059198 51 075 V GS 13 5 $14,250 $14,665





to add multiple lines to a single table cell.  I am not sure if this is the proper way of doing it or if the bot is just not doing it correctly.  I need this verified.  Also the bot seems to be getting the OCR text from the image and adding a few additional letters to it.  for example on row 5, Column 7 it's picking up the two letters 'si' which are not there in the image.  Lastly, the text in row 6, last column, is '06/19/66' not '06/19/60', the zero is actually the letter 'O'.  I need that fix.  Can you help me with these edits?  Thank you.  :)!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

PJH: 10 AUG 66

SECRET
(When Filled In)

OEF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM M

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

RESIGNATION

4. EFFECTIVE DATE
   MO DA YR

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

07 30 66 REGULAR

6. FUNDS X V TO V 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO CF

CF TO V CF TO CF

7235 0620 0000

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH
PLANS AND OPERATIONS STAFF
SECTION B

WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0646 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR WATE

GS 0136.01 13 5 14665

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Mdatrs. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LE!
    CODE Code CODE CODE Cede MO DA YR MO DA YR

45 10 05 09 29

28. MTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. REFIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE REQ. NO.

EOD DATA

35. YET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG COMF. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE MO DA YR MO DA TR TYPE CODE WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE

0 NONE 1800091

1 3-FICA
6 NONE

2-10 97 CSC CAR YES
RES 1-YES

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE CODE FURM EXECUTED CODE NO TAY EXEMPTIONS CODE NO TAA STATE CODE
    EXEMP
    0 NO PREVIOUS SEXYICE 1 YES 1-YES

1 NO SPEAK IN SERVICE 2 NO 2 NO
SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS)
SERVICE MORE THAN YPSI)

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED]

Excluded from automate
downpadity and
declassificatiop

FORN Use Previous

1150 Edition

SECRET (When Filled An)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

PJH: 10 AUG 66

SECRET
(When Filled in)

OAB

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER

059198

2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

Kent, William M.

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   EXCEPTED APPT
   CAREER

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MO  DA YR

07 31 66 REGULAR

6. FUNDS
   V TO V V TO CF
7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
   CF TO V X CF TO CF

7135 0630 0000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
    DDP/WH
    PROJECT ANNEX
    U.S. FIELD
    JMPOPLAR- 12
    NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

11. POSITION TITLE
12. POSITION NUMBER
13. SERVICE DESIGNATION
    OPS OFFICER
    8001 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)
15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
16. GRADE AND STEP
17. SALARY OR RATE
    GS 0136.01 13 5 14665

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

POSTED ON
OF-4b
19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING
22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Mdatrs. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
CODE CODE CODE CODE MO DA YR MO DA YR
13 10 51800 WH 75033 2 05 09 29 06 23 63 08 19 66

28. NTE EXPIRES
29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA
    REFERENCE I CSC DATA CODE

1 35. YET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
FICA MO DA YR DA YR CODE O WAIVER REQ. NO.
0 NONE 07 03 50 01 02 52 C 1 00000 M1
1 2 OPT.
41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FORM EXECUTED CODE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
HEALTH INS. CODE
CODE NO PREVIOUS SERVICE CODE YES OPM EXECUTED 44. STATE TAX DATA
NO BREAK IN SERVICE 1 2 NO 2. NO CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
1 BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS) EXEMP
3 BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS) 8 C MO
NO TAX EXEMPTIONS
SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM 1150
Use Previous
Edition
SECRET
GROUP I
Enclassification
(When Filled in)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# BJT: 17 MAY 67

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

XXB

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 Kent William m

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

DESIGNATION AS PARTICIPANT IN CIA
RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

05 07 67 REGULAR

6. FUNDS CF TO V 7. Financial Analysis No. Chargeable 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO CF X

CF TO CF

7135 0630 0000 PL 88-643 SECT. 203

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/WH

11. POSITION TITLE NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA

12 POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (CS, LE, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

13

18. REMARKS
    EMPLOYEE WILL RECEIVE NOTIFICATION FROM THE DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL OF THIS DESIGNATION.

POSTED ON
OF-4b

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19 ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hdqtes. 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
CODE Code NUMEPIC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE DATA CODE REO. NO

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE HEALTH INS. CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA
    CODE

SIGNATURE CR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

FORM 1150 Use Previous
5-68 Edition

SECRET

POSTED
05-1867
(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET
(When Filled In)

W: 15 AUG 67

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

ERIAL NUMBER 2. MAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

$53198

NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT



Kerte Kert, William m

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

7. Financial Analysis Na. Chargeable 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

6 FUNDS V TO V V TO CF

CF TO V EF TO CF 8123 0108 0000 30 JSC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS TO LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP/000
U.S. FIELD
UNITED STATES STATIO
ORBIT OPERATIONS GROUP

11 POSITION TITLE WASH., D.C.

OPS OFFICER 12. POSITION MUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 13 5 14655

18. REMARKS

![POSTED ON SEP 1967]

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL


19. ACTION 20. Empley 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Mdairs. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code NUMãžã CODE CODE DA DA YR.

37 10 43620 DOD 75013 2 051 091 29

28. MTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 37. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE REQ NO

EOD DATA


35. VET, PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG COMP DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE CODE WAIVER HEALTH INS CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42 LEAVE CAT 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
    CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE FORM EXECUTES

![Previous Civilian Government Service Table]

FROM WH SIGNATUBE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED 8/14/67]

FORM UP SECRET (4-5):

1150 506 Edition Excluded from automatic downgrading and (When Filte


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

FLW: 26 CCT 67

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 Kent, William rri

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REASSIGNMENT 10 08 67 REGULAR

6. FUNDS 7. Financial Analysis No. Chargeable 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

TO Y TO CF 8129 0109 0000 50 USC 403 J

CF TO V X EF TO CF

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DOP/DOD WASH., D.C.
US FIELD
INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS GROUP
WASHINGTON BASE

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0416 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 13 5 14665

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22 STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Hdefrs. 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27 DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code NUMERIC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE Code MO DA YR MO DA YR MO DA YR
    37 10 43500 DOO 75013 2 05 09 29

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE DATA CODE TYPE REQ. NO.

*   CSC
*   CIA
*   FICA
*   NUNE

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLE/HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE DA YR MC DA YA

HEALTH INS CODE

2-10 PT

41 PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
CODE

*   AG SPEAK IN SERVICE
*   IMGEAK IN SERVICE ILESS THAN
*   BREAR IN SERVICE (NORE THAN

DNO PREVIOUS SERVICE

FORM EXECUTED CODE NC TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED 1-TES CODE IND. TAX STATE CODE
2. NO EXEMP

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED]

POSTED
Rb
10-26-67

FORM Use Previous SECRET PLW GROUP 1 (4-3) (When Filled In)
5-56 Edition Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification
1150


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTIONS 212 AND 216 OF PL 90-206 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11413 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 14 JULY 1968

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY
Kent William on 059198 43 500 CF GS 13 6 $15,757 $16,809

![DOD]
1. SERIAL NO. 2. NAME 3. ORGANIZATION 4. FUNDS 5. LWOP HOURS
   059198 Kent William 43 500 CF

6. OLD SALARY RATE 7. NEW SALARY RATE 8. TYPE ACTION
   Grade Step Salary Last Eff. Date Grade Step Salary EFFECTIVE DATE SI ADJ.
   GS 13 5 $15,307 06/19/66 GS 13 6 $15,757 06/15/68

CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE DATE

![Signature block]

![Check boxes] NO EXCESS LWOP
![Check boxes] IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD
![Check boxes] AWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY

![Clerks Initials and Audited by signature]
FORM Use previous PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION
7-66 560 E editions

![Numbers (4-51)]

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 90-206
PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DOI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949,
AS AMENDED, AND A-DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962."

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 8 OCTOHER 1967

NAME SERIAL ORGN. FUNDS GR-STEP OLD NEW
SALARY SALARY
Kent, William 059198 43 500 CF GS 13 5 $14.665 $15.307


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

PLW: 13 DEC GC

OCB

SECRET

(When Filied in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER

2 NAME LAST-FIRST MIDDLE

059198

Kent William on

3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

4 EFFECTIVE DATE

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

PROMOTION

MO

DA

12 15 68

REGULAR

6

FUNDS

Financial Analysis No. Chargeable B. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO V

V TO CF

CF TO V

X

CF TO CF

9123 0105 00000

50 USC 403 J

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/DOD

US FIELD

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS GROUP

WASHINGTON BASE

11. POSITION TITLE

WASH., D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

OFS OFFICER

0410

13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GG. 18)

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

D

16. GRADE AND STEP

17. SALARY OR RATE

GS

0130.01

14 3

13076

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19 ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23 INTEGREE 24 Hidaty 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LE!
CODE Code
CODE
Code
MO DA YR MO DA YR
NUMER
Code
22
10
43500
DOD
75013
2
05 09 25 12 19 68 12 13 68

EOD DATA
28 INTE EXPIRES 29 SPECIAL 30 RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32 Carrection/Concellation Data
REFERENCE
DATA CODE
MO DA
36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG. COMP DATE 38. CAREPR CATEGORY 39

35 YET. PREFERENCE

CAR
COOF
MO DA YR MO DA YR
FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
CODE
HEALTH INS COOF
41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERTIMENT SERVICE 42 LEAVE CAT 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA
CODE
CODE
NO TAX EXEMPTIONS
NO TAX STATE COCAR

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![Signature]

FORM 1150

5-66 Mfg. 10-67

Use Previous Edirion

SECRET

SF

![POSTED 12-16-68]

GROUP I

Excluded fram gulo.notic downgrading on t declastutkotion

(When Filled in)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

1. SERIAL NO. 2. NAME

## Kent, William M

059198

3. ORGANIZATION 4. FUNDS 5. LWOP HOURS

43 500 CF

6. 
| Grade | Step | Salary  | Last Eff. Date | Grade | Step | Salary  | EFFECTIVE DATE | 8. TYPE ACTION |
| ----- | ---- | ------- | -------------- | ----- | ---- | ------- | -------------- | -------------- |
| GS 14 | 3    | $19,767 | 12/15/68       | GS 14 |      | $20,385 | 12/14/69       | S ADJ.         |

CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE

DATE

NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

AUDITED BY

FORM 560 E Use previous editions

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

[Figure: A document contains a notice that "PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 21.2 OF PL 90-206 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11474 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND A DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962" EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT. 13 JULY 1969. Then, there is information of NAME, SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP, NEW SALARY. Specifically, Kent William m, 059198 43 500 CF GS 14 3, $19,767.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

BSJ: 16 FEB 70

SECRET
(When Filled in)

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2 NAME (LAST.FIRST MIDDLEL

039198 Kent willion on

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

## RESIGNATION

6. FUNDS
   V TO V
   V TO CF

CF TO V
X
CF TO CF

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/DOD

U.S. FIELD

INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS GROUP

WASHINGTON BASE

EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

02 07 70

REGULAR

7 Financial Analysis No Chargeable 8 CSC OR OTHED LEGAL AUTHORITY

0129 0109 0000

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

WASH.D.C.

12. POSITION NUMBER

11 POSITION TITLE

OFS OFFICER

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB,

GS

15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

0136.01

0416

13 SERVICE DESIGNATION

D

16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE

14 4

20385

18 REMARKS

19. ACTION 20. Employ 21.

CODE

45

Code

10

28. ÎÎ¤Î• EXPIRES

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

OFFICE CODING
22 STATION 23. INTEGREE

24 Hdqtrs. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI

NL MERIC

ALPHARET
CODE
CODE

MO

DA

YR
EOD DATA

MO

DA

YR

29. SPECIA 30

PETIREMENT DATA

31 SEPARATION 32. Correctian / Cancellation Lata

CATA CODE

TYPE

MO

DA

YR

33. SECURITY 34 SEX

REG. NO

35 VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY

39 REGL HEALTH INSURANCE

O WAIVER

HEALUM ING, COOE

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

CODE

INO NONS

5 P

MO

DA

YR

CAR

RES

CODE

CODE

PROV

41 PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

42. LEAVE CATAL

43 FEDERAL TAX DATA

44 STATE TAX DATA

CODE

NO TAK EXEMPTIONG

COOF ING TAX STATE COLE

EXEMP

1 ONO PREVIOUS SERVICE

FORM EXECUTIED CODE

1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE

2 BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 1

2. NO

2. NO

7 BREAK IN SERVICE MODE THAN 3

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED 16]

FORM

5.00

Use Previous

1150

SECRET

Edihan

GROUP

BBG

Faciuced from automatic downgrading and declassification

(When Filled fa

PRUSTED BY THE STANDARD REGISTER COMPANT. USA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

35J: 16 FEB 70

CAF

1. SERIAL NUMBER
   059198

2. NAME LAST FIRST MIDDLE:
   KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   EXCEPTED APPOINTMENT
   CAREER

4. EFFECTIVE DATE
   02 09 70

5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
   REGULAR

6. FUNDS
   V TO V
   V TO CF
7. Financial Analysis No. Chargeable 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
   CF TO V
   X
   CF TO CF
   0135 0620 0000
   50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DDP/WH
BRANCH 3
PERU SECTION

10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
WASH.,D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE
    OPS OFFICER

12. POSITION NUMBER
    1391

14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE 'GS. LB. etc
GS

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES
    0136.01

16. GRADE AND STEP
    14 4

13. SERVICE DESIGNATION
    D

17. SALARY ON RATE
    20385

18. REMARKS
    STAFF EMPLOYEE SPECIAL.

HOME BASE: WH

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21 OFFICE CODING
    CODE
    Code

22. STATION 23. INTEGREE
    CODE CODE

24. Hdars 25 DATE OF BIRTH
    Code

26. DATE OF GRADE 27 DATE OF LEI

NUMERIC ALPHABETIC

13 10
51400 WH

28. NTE EXPIRES
29. SPECIAL
    REFERENCE
    75013

30. RETIREMENT DATA

31. SEPARATION 32. Correction / Concellation Data
    DATA CODE
    TYPE

1 05 09 20 12 15 65 12 14 69

12-C4
NONS

MO DA YR
EOD DATA

35. VET, PREFERENCE 36 SERV. COMP DATE 37 LONG. COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY

39 FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE

CODE
1
U-NONE
3 PT
07 03 50 01 02 52
CODE
HEALTH INS. CODE

10 PT

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE

42. LEAVE CAT 43
    CODE
    44 FFOERAL TAX DATA

0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE
1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE
2. BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 3 YRS.
3-BREAK 'N SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YNS

WAIVER
YES

44
FORM EXECUTED CODE
NC

NO TAX EXEMPTIONS
1

33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    REG. NO.

00000 MI
40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
058228472

STATE TAX DATA

FORM EXECUTED
1 YES
2. NO

CODE NO. TAX STATE CODE
EXEMP

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED]

FORM
5.66

1150
Mfa 10-67

Use Previous
Edition

SECRET

BBG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 91-231 AND
EXECUTIVE ORDER 11524 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE
CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND A DCI DIRECTIVE DATED & OCTOBER 1962

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 28 DECEMBER 1969

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP NEW
SALARY
KENT WILLIAM 059198 51 400 V GS 14 4 $21,608


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

FVD: 17 AR 7

SECRET
(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME LAST,FIRST MIDDLE

059198 KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED FUNDS

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

MO DA YR

4 1 197 REGULAR

6. FUNDS 7. Financial Analysis No. Chargeable 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

V TO V V TO CF

X CF TO V CF TO CF

235 62 5 USC 413 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIA STATION

ODP/WH

BRANC 3

PERU STATION WAS., D.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS DEFLER 1391 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE GS (8, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136 1 WL 216 3

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

CODE 19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23. INTEGREE 24. Heath 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI

Code Code Cade MO DA YR MO DA YR MO DA YR

16 1 514 WH 75.13

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIPEMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. Correction/Cancellet an Da

REFERENCE

MO DA YR

FOD DATA

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

CODE MO DA YR MO DA YR

0 NONE 0 NAIVER

1. YES 2. HEALTH INS. CODE

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

CODE

0. NO PREVIOUS SERVICE FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAX EXEMPTION FORM EXECUTED CUDE NO TAY STATE CODE

1. NO BREAK IN SERVICE 1. YES 1. YES

2. BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 1 YR. 2. NO 2. NO

3. BREAK IN SERV. JE MORE THAN 1 YR

SIGNATURE OF OTHER AUTHENTICATION

LOCKED

4.20-70

(GROUP 1)

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

FORM Use Previous SECRET BBC (4-51) (When Filled in)

5.66 1:50 Edition Mig. 10.07

PRINTED ON THE STANDARD REGISTER COMPANY. U. S. A.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

FVD: 12 MAY 70

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OKF

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   REASSIGNMENT AND
   TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED FUNDS (CORR)

4. EFFECTIVE CATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
   04 19 70 REGULAR

7 Financial Analysis No. Chargeable & CSE OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

6. FUNDS
   V TO V V TO V
   X CF TO V CF TO CF 0235 0620 0000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
   DOP WH
   BRANCH 3
   PERU SECTION WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION
    OPS OFFICER 1391 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE
    GS 0136.01 14 14 21608

18 REMARKS
THIS ACTION CORRECTS FORM 1150 EFFECTIVE 04/19/70 AS FOLLOWS:
ITEM #3 NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION WHICH READ TRANSFER TO
VOUCHERED FUNDS TO READ REASSIGNMENT AND TRANSFER TO VOUCHERED FUNDS.

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ 21 OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23 INTEGREE 24. Hdqrs 25 DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27 DATE OF LET 33. SECURITY 34. SEX
    CODE Code NUMERIC ALPHABETIC CODE CODE Code REG NO.

58 10 514001 WH 75013 1 05 09 29 16 04 19 70

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31 SEPARATION 32 Correction/ Concellution Data

DATA CODE
CODE
1. CFC
2. CA
3. FCA
4. NONE
   35 VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP. DATE 37 LONG. COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40 SOCIAL SECURITY NO
   CODE
0. NONE
3. P
   MO DA YR MO DA YR CODE WAIVER HEALTH INS CODE
0. WAIVER
1. YES

41. PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42 LEAVE CATIAJ 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA
    CODE 1. NO PREVIOUS SERVICE CODE FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAA EXEMPTIONS CODE ING TAX STATE CODE
2. NO BREAK IN SERVICE 1. YES 1. YES EXEMPT
3. BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THEN 3 YRS 2. NO 2. NO
4. BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM Use Previous
5-66 1150 Edition

SECRET FVD

![POSTED 05-12-70]

Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification (45)

(When Filled in)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 92-210 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11637 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, A5 AMENDED, AND A DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENTI 9 JANUARY 1972

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP NEW SALARY

KENT WILLIAM 059198 51 480 V GS 14 5 $24,888


1. SERIAL NO. 2. NAME 3. ORGANIZATION 4. FUNDS 5. LWOP HOURS

059198 KENT WILLIAM 51 400 V

6. OLD SALARY RATE 7. NEW SALARY RATE 8. TYPE ACTION

Grade Step Salary Lost Eff. Date Grade Step Salary EFFECTIVE DATE SI ADJ.

GS 14 4 $22,897 12/14/09 GS 14 5 $23,591 12/12/71

CERTIFICATION AND AUTHENTICATION

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS OF ACCEPTAREE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE DATE

Albert D. Wede 9 October 1971.

NO EXCESS LWOP

IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS

FORM 560 E PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION


"PAY ADJUSTMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH SALARY SCHEDULES OF PL 91-656 AND EXECUTIVE ORDER 11576 PURSUANT TO AUTHORITY OF DCI AS PROVIDED IN THE CIA ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED, AND A DCI DIRECTIVE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962"

EFFECTIVE DATE OF PAY ADJUSTMENT: 10 JANUARY 1971

NAME SERIAL ORGN, FUNDS GR-STEP NEW SALARY

KENT WILLIAM 059198 51 400 V GS 14 4 $22,897


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

G36

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DCS 10/16/71
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST FIRST-MIDDLE)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

059198 KENT WILLIAH
3. NATURE OF PERSONMEL ACTION

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REASSIGNMENT

MO DA YR

09 22 71

6. FUNDS X V TO V V TO OF

7 FINANCIAL ANALYSIS NO, CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

CF TO V CF TO CF

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 2235 0620 0000

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
    DOP/WH DIVISION

BR/6/CA SECTION HAS. D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 1855 U

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 14

18. REMARKS

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION





POSTED

Form 11508 Use Previous SECRET 10-19-71
7-66 MFG.11-70 Edition

GROHPA..
Excluded from autometer
downgrading and
declassification

(4-51


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

03/31/72

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2 NAME (LAST FIRST MIDDLE)

A89184 KENT WILLIA

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

DELEGATION UP N.S.C.P.

6.  FUNDS A V TO V V TO CF

CF TO V CF TO CF

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

DOP/WH DIVISION

11. POSITION TITLE

MPS OFFICER

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.) 15 OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0130801 14

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19 ACTION 20 Employ 21. OFFICE CODING 22 STATION 23 INTEGREE 24. Hours 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26 DATE OF GRADE 27 DATE OF LEI
CODE Code CODE Code

NUMERIC ALPHABETIC

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30 RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. Correction / Cancellation Data
    REFERENCE DATA CODE TYPE

MO. DA YR 1. FICA EOD DATA
2. CIA 5. NONE

33. SECURITY 34 SEX
    REQ NO.

35. VET PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEGEI / HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
    CODE CODE O-WAIVER
10. NONE MO DA YR MO DA YR CAR HEALTH INS CODE
11. 5pt REO Ves
12. 10 pt PROV
    TEMP

41 PREVIOUS CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT SERVICE 42 LEAVE CAT. 43 FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA
CODE CODE NO TAX EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE NO TAX STATE CODE
0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1. YES EKEAMP
1. NO BREAK IN SERVICE 2 NO
2. BREAK IN SERVICE (LESS THAN 3 YRS)
3. BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 YRS)

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

FORM Use Previous
5.66 1150 Edition
Mg 10-07

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
down grading und
(4 STY)
(When Filled In)

PRINTED BY THE STANDARD REGISTER COMPANY U S A


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

PSC: 18 MAY 62

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER

059198

2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

KENT WILLIAM M

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4 EFFECTIVE DATE

05 18 62

S CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REGULAR

6 FUNDS

X TO Y
YTO CF
CF TO V
CF 13 (F

7 COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

2235 1000 1000

8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS

10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP WH
BRANCH 5
CA SECTION

WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE

12. POSITION MUMBER

13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER

0892

D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB, etc.)

15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES

16 GRADE AND STEP

17 SALARY OR RATE

GS

0136.01

12 3

9475

18. REMARS

19. ACTION 20. Empley. 21. OFFICE CODING

CODE
Code

37 10

NUMERIC
64470

ALFHABETIC
WH

23. INTEGREE
    CODE
22. STATION
    CODE
    75013

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

24. Hdates, 25. DATE OF BIRTH
    Code

05 09 29

26. DATE OF GRADE

27. DATE OF LE

MO
DA
YR

28. NTE EXPIRES

29. SPECIAL
    REFERENCE

30. RETIREMENT DATA

131. SEPARATION
     DATA CODE

32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA

CSC
3FICA
4ONE

33. SECURITY
    REG. NO.

34. SEX

EOD DATA

35 VET, PREFERENCE

36. SERV. COMP DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE

38. MIL. SERV. CREDIT/LCD 39.

CODE

DA.

YES

FEGUIMEALTH INSURANCE

HEALTH INS CODE

CODE

1YES

40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO.

41,

CODE

PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

47. LEAVE CAT, 43

FEDERAL TAX DATA

44. 
STATE TAX DATA

CODE

NG PREVIOUS SERVICE
NO BREAK IN SERVICE

E
IN SERVICE ILESS THAN 12 MOS:

CODE
FOAM EXECUTED: "ODE
TES

NO TAX EDEMPTIONS

FORM EXECUTED
YES

CODE NO TAX STATE CODE
EXEMP

BPEAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 12 #051

2. NO

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![Signature]

Form
1150
Use Previous

8-61
SECRET
Edition

![handwritten notes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PUBLIC LAW 87-792 AND
DCI MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1956 , SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS,
EFFECTIVE 14 OCTOBER 1962

| NAME           | SERIAL | ORGN  | FUNDS | OLD GR_ST | OLD SALARY | NEW GR_ST | NEW SALARY |
| -------------- | ------ | ----- | ----- | --------- | ---------- | --------- | ---------- |
| KENT WILLIAM M | 059198 | 64470 | V     | 12 3      | $9475      | 12 3      | $10105     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

ABM: 3 DEC 62

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM M

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

11.30.62 REGULAR

6. FUNDS X

7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

3235 1000 1000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DDP WH
WASH., D. C.
BRANCH 2
URUGUAY PARAGUAY SECTION

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0970 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LB. etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 12 3 10105

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22 STATION 23 INTEGREE 24 Magis 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LET

CODE CODE CODE Code

37 10 64350 WH 75013 1 05 09 29

28. NTE EXPIRES 29 SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32 URRECTION CANCELLATION DATA

REFERENCE DATA CODE

EOD DATA

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV COMP DATE 37. LONG COMP. DATE 38 CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO

CODE

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA

CODE

42. LEAVE CAT 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

CODE CODE TAX STATE CODE

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED stamp]

FORM 1150 Use Previous SECRET

Edition RBR 12/4/02 (When Filled in)

L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

BAB: 21 JUNE 63

SECRET
(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCF

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)

059198 KENT WILLIAM M

3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ALTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

PROMOTION 06 23 63 REGULAR

6. FUNDS X V TO Y TO EF 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

CF TO V CF TO CF

9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE

3235 1000 1000 50 USC 403 J

DDP WH 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

BRANCH 2

URUGUAY, PARAGUAY SECTION WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12. POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0970 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (OS, LB, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS 0136.01 13 1 11150

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. Î‘Î“Î¤Î™Î©Î 20 Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 22. STATION 23 INTEGREE 24 Maatss. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEI
    CODE Code CODE CODE

22 10 64350 WH 75013 1 05 09 29 06 23 63 06 23 63

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33 SECURITY 34, SEX
    REFERENCE DATA CODE TYPE REG. NO.

LSC

FICA

NUNE

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37 LONG COMP. DATE 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39 FEGLI / HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NO
    CODE MO DA YR MO DA YR CODE WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE

ONOSE
157
2109

41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44 STATE TAX DATA
    CODE COGE NO TAY EXEMPTIONS FORM EXECUTED CODE ING TAY STATE CODE

ONG FREVIOUS SERVICE YES EXEMP

Ù Ù¤Ù¨ Ù¡Ù Ù¢Ù¥K IN SERVICE

RAX IN SERVICES THE BÙ¢Ù¤Ù¦Ù  2 NO

FEARN SERVICE NOTE THAN

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![Signature or other authentication]

POSTED

![POSTED logo]

FORM 1150 SECRET 27 JUN GROUP 1
11.62 Use Previous Excluded from autã‚Šã‚…ã†ã—ã« Jawngradme and
Edition declassicahon (When Filled In


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

RZR: 19 AUG 63

SECRET
(When Filled In)

OCF

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLEJ

059138 KENT WILLIAM M

3. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION 4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT

REASSIGNMENT

MO. DA. YR.

08 19 63 REGULAR

6. FUNDS
   X V TO V V TO EF 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY

CF TO V CF TO CF

4235 1000 1000 50 USC 403 J

9. ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION

DOP/WH
PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFF
SECTION 3
WASH., D.C.

11. POSITION TITLE 12 POSITION NUMBER 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION

OPS OFFICER 0645 D

14. CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS. LB. etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16. GRADE AND STEP 17. SALARY OR RATE

GS $138.01 13 1 11150

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. ACTION 20. Employ. 21. OFFICE CODING 24. Hdates. 25. DATE OF BIRTH 26. DATE OF GRADE 27. DATE OF LEJ

CODE Code NUMERIC ALPHABETIC MO. DA YR. MO DA YA MO CA

37 10 64075 WH 05 03 29

22. STATION 23 INTEGREE 31. SEPARATION 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA 33. SECURITY 34. SEX

CODE CODE DATA COOF TYPE MO DA YR REG. NO

75013 Code

EOD DATA

28. NTE EXPIRES 29. SPECIAL 30. RETIREMENT DATA 38. CAREER CATEGORY 39. FEGLI HEALTH INSURANCE 40. SOCIAL SECURITY NG

REFERENCE CS MO DA YR. CODE WAIVER HEALTH INS. CODE

MO. DA 3. FICA 1 YES

NONE

35. VET. PREFERENCE 36. SERV. COMP. DATE 37. LONG. COMP DATE

CODE MO DA YR. 41. PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA 42. LEAVE CAT. 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA 44. STATE TAX DATA

CODE FORMEREL UTF LOCE NO TAX EXEMPTIONG FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. TAKI STATE CODE

0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE 1-TES EXEMP

NG BREAK IN SERVICE 2-NO

2 BREAK IN SERVICE ILESS THAN 3 YRS!

> BREAK IN SERVICE (MORE THAN 3 Yã‹ã‚‰ã€

FORM Use Previous

1162 1150 Edition

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

![signature]

POSTED

08/27/63WK

![secret stamp] AUG

191963

GROUP 1

Excated from au

Downgrading and

Secratification

(When Filled in)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

1. Serial No.

2. Name

059198 KENT WILLIAM M

3. Cost Center Number 4. LWOP Hours

37G

51 075 V

5. OLD SALARY RATE 6. NEW SALARY RATE 7. TYPE ACTION

Grade Step Salary Last Et Date Grade Step Salary Effective Date PSI ADJ.

GS 13 1 $11,725 06/23/63 GS 13 2 $12,110 06/21/64

8. Remarks and Authentication

/ NO EXCESS LHOP

/ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS
OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE: DATE 10 April 64

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

Form 9.61 560 Obsolete Previous Edition

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF PUBLIC LAW 87-793 AND DCI
MEMORANDUM DATED 1 AUGUST 1956; SALARY IS ADJUSTED AS FOLLOWS,
EFFECTIVE 5 JANUARY 1964.

NAME SERIAL ORGN FUNDS GR-ST OLD SALARY NEW SALARY

KENT WILLIAM M 059198 51 075 V GS 13 1 $11,150 $11,725


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

ADJUSTMENT OF SALARY RATE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SCHEDULES OF THE GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES SALARY REFORM ACT OF 1964 PURSUANT TO THE AUTHORITY OF THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AS PROVIDED IN THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT OF 1949, AS AMENDED. AND POLICY DIRECTIVE ISSUED BY THE ACTING DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE DATED 8 OCTOBER 1962.

SALARY CONVERTED TO RATE SHOWN FOR INDIVIDUAL'S GRADE AND STEP AS INDICATED IN CHART BELOW.

# GENERAL SCHEDULE RATES
## Federal Employees Salary Act of 1964

| GRADE |     | 1                     | 2      | 3      | 4      | 5      | 6      | 7      | 8      | 9      | 10     |
| ----- | --- | --------------------- | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ | ------ |
|       | Per | Annum Rates and Steps |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| GS-1  |     | $3,385                | $3,500 | $3,615 | $3,730 | $3,845 | $3,960 | $4,075 | $4,190 | $4,305 | $4,420 |
| GS-2  |     | 3,680                 | 3,805  | 3,930  | 4,055  | 4,180  | 4,305  | 4,430  | 4,555  | 4,680  | 4,805  |
| GS-3  |     | 4,005                 | 4,140  | 4,275  | 4,410  | 4,545  | 4,680  | 4,815  | 4,950  | 5,085  | 5,220  |
| GS-4  |     | 4,480                 | 4,630  | 4,780  | 4,930  | 5,080  | 5,230  | 5,380  | 5,530  | 5,680  | 5,830  |
| GS-5  |     | 5,000                 | 5,165  | 5,330  | 5,495  | 5,060  | 5,825  | 5,990  | 6,155  | 6,320  | 6,485  |
| GS-6  |     | 5,505                 | 5,690  | 5,875  | 6,060  | 6,245  | 6,430  | 6,615  | 6,800  | 6,985  | 7,170  |
| GS-7  |     | 6,050                 | 6,250  | 6,450  | 6,650  | 6,850  | 7,050  | 7,250  | 7,450  | 7,650  | 7,850  |
| GS-8  |     | 6,630                 | 6,850  | 7,070  | 7,290  | 7,510  | 7,730  | 7,950  | 8,170  | 8,390  | 8,610  |
| GS-9  |     | 7,220                 | 7,465  | 7,710  | 7,955  | 8,200  | 8,445  | 8,690  | 8,935  | 9,180  | 9,425  |
| GS-10 |     | 7,900                 | 8,170  | 8,440  | 8,710  | 8,980  | 9,250  | 9,520  | 9,790  | 10,060 | 10,330 |
| GS-11 |     | 8,650                 | 8,945  | 9,240  | 9,535  | 9,830  | 10,125 | 10,420 | 10,715 | 11,010 | 11,305 |
| GS-12 |     | 10,250                | 10,605 | 10,960 | 11,315 | 11,670 | 12,025 | 12,380 | 12,735 | 13,090 | 13,445 |
| GS-13 |     | 12,075                | 12,495 | 12,915 | 13,335 | 13,755 | 14,175 | 14,595 | 15,015 | 15,435 | 15,855 |
| GS-14 |     | 14,170                | 14,660 | 15,150 | 15,640 | 16,130 | 16,620 | 17,110 | 17,600 | 18,090 | 18,580 |
| GS-15 |     | 16,460                | 17,030 | 17,600 | 18,170 | 18,740 | 19,310 | 19,880 | 20,450 | 21,020 | 21,590 |
| GS-16 |     | 18,935                | 19,590 | 20,245 | 20,900 | 21,555 | 22,210 | 22,865 | 23,520 | 24,175 |        |
| GS-17 |     | 21,445                | 22,195 | 22,945 | 23,695 | 24,445 |        |        |        |        |        |
| GS-18 |     | 24,500                |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

1. Serial No. 2. Name 3. Cost Center Number 4. LWOP Hours

059198 KENT WILLIAM M 64 350 V 2A

OLD SALARY RATE

| Grade | Step | Salary | Last EH Date | Grade | Step | NEW SALARY RATE | Effective Date |
| ----- | ---- | ------ | ------------ | ----- | ---- | --------------- | -------------- |

| GS 12 | 3    | $10,105  | 05/13/62     | GS 12 | 4    | $10,420          | 05/12/63      |

8. Remarks and Authentication

/ NO EXCESS LWOP

/ IN PAY STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

/ LWOP STATUS AT END OF WAITING PERIOD

CLERKS INITIALS AUDITED BY

I CERTIFY THAT THE WORK OF THE ABOVE NAMED EMPLOYEE IS

OF AN ACCEPTABLE LEVEL OF COMPETENCE.

SIGNATURE: E. D. ECHOLS DATE: jsr

PAY CHANGE NOTIFICATION

14 March 68

Form 961 560 Obsolete Previous Edition

![Form bottom note]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

NJM: 11 JAN 65

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

1. | SERIAL NUMBER | 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE) |
   | ------------- | --------------------------- |
   | 059198        | KENT WILLIAM M              |

3. MATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION

REASSIGNMENT

4. | EFFECTIVE DATE | 5. CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT |
   | -------------- | ------------------------- |
   | MO. DA. YR.    | REGULAR                   |
   | 01:11:65       |                           |

6. | FUNDS    | 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE | 8. CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY |
   | -------- | ----------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
   | X V TO V | 5235 0620 0000                | 50 USC 403 J                    |
   | CF TO V  | CF TO CF                      |                                 |

9. | ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS | 10. LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION |
   | --------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
   | DDP/WH                      | WASH., D. C.                     |
   | PLANS & OPERATIONS STAFF    |                                  |
   | SECTION B                   |                                  |

11. | POSITION TITLE | 12. POSITION MKUMBER | 13. SERVICE DESIGNATION |
    | -------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------- |
    | OPS OFFICER    | 0646                 | D                       |

14. | CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, LÃª, etc.) | 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES | 16. GRADE AND STEP | 17. SALARY OR RATE |
    | -------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------ |
    | GS                                     | 0136.01                 | 13 2               | 12495              |

18. REMARKS

SPACE BELOW FOR EXCLUSIVE USE OF THE OFFICE OF PERSONNEL

19. | ACTION | 20. Empley. | 21. OFFICE CODING  | 22. STATION | 23. INTEGREE | 24. Hdatrs. | 25 DATE OF BIRTH | 26. DATE OF GRADE | 27. DATE OF LEI |
    | ------ | ----------- | ------------------ | ----------- | ------------ | ----------- | ---------------- | ----------------- | --------------- |
    | CODE   | Code        | NUMERIO ALPHABETIC | CODE        | CODE         | Code        | MO DA YR         | MO DA YR          | MO DA YR        |
    | 37     | 10          | 51075 WH           | 75013       | 1            | 05 09:29    |                  |                   |                 |

28. | MTE EXPIRES | 29. SPECIAL REFERENCE | 30. RETIREMENT DATA | 31. SEPARATION DATA CODE | 32. CORRECTION/CANCELLATION DATA |
    | ----------- | --------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------------ | -------------------------------- |
    | MO DA YR    | 3 USC                 | TYPE                |                          |                                  |
    | 3 FICA      |                       |                     |                          |                                  |
    | 5 NONE      |                       |                     |                          |                                  |

35. | WET. PREFERENCE | 36. SERV. COMP. DATE | 37 LONG. COMP. DATE | 38. CAREER CATEGORY | 39. FEGLI/MEALTH INSURANCE    | 40. SOCIAL SECURITY ND |
    | --------------- | -------------------- | ------------------- | ------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------- |
    | CODE            | MO DA YR             | MO DA YR            | AFS EUDE            | CODE 0 WAIVER HEALTH INS CODE |                        |
    | 0 NONE          |                      |                     |                     |                               |                        |
    | 1 8 PT          |                      |                     |                     |                               |                        |
    | 2 10 PT         |                      |                     |                     |                               |                        |

41. | PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT SERVICE DATA   | 42. LEAVE CAT. | 43. FEDERAL TAX DATA                 | 44. STATE TAX DATA                    |
    | ---------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------- |
    | CODE                               | CODE           | FORM FKEOUTEN COGE MO TAX EXEMPTIONS | FORM EXECUTED CODE NO. JAXISTATE CODE |
    | 1 0 NO PREVIOUS SERVICE            | 1. YES         | 1. YES                               |                                       |
    | 1 NO BREAK IN SERVICE              | 2. NO          | 2 ã‚¯                                  |                                       |
    | 2 BREAK IN SERVICE LESS THAN 1 IPS |                |                                      |                                       |
    | 3 BREAK IN SERVICE MORE THAN 3 YRS |                |                                      |                                       |

SIGNATURE OR OTHLI AUTHENTICATION

![POSTED]

| FORM       | Use Previous |
| ---------- | ------------ |
| 11.62 1150 | Edition      |

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatte
downgrading and
seclassificates

(4-53)
(When Filled in)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET
(When Filled in)

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION

OCS 05/27/65
1. SERIAL NUMBER 2. NAME (LAST-FIRST-MIDDLE)
   059198 KENT WILLIAM M
3. NATURE OF PERSONNEL ACTION
   REASSIGNMENT
4. EFFECTIVE DATE 5 CATEGORY OF EMPLOYMENT
   MO DA YR
   05 31 65
   6 FUNDS X V TO V V TO OF 7. COST CENTER NO. CHARGEABLE 8 CSC OR OTHER LEGAL AUTHORITY
   CF TO V CF TO CF
   9 ORGANIZATIONAL DESIGNATIONS
   DDP/WH DIVISION 5235 0620 0000
   10 LOCATION OF OFFICIAL STATION
   WASH.. D. C.
11. POSITION TITLE
    OPS OFFICER
12. POSITION NUMBER 13. CAREER SERVICE DESIGNATION
    0645 D
    14 CLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE (GS, 1B, etc.) 15. OCCUPATIONAL SERIES 16 GRADE AND STEP 17 SALARY OR RATE
    GS 0136.01 13
18. REMARKS

> POSTED
> 6-9-65 *signature*

SIGNATURE OR OTHER AUTHENTICATION

Form 11508 Use Previous
1-63 MFG 163 Edition
SECRET (4-51)
GROUP I
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification
(When Filled in)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)