# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

**SECRET**

Chief, Africa Division

Chief, MKVIVID, Athens 15-16

Chief of Base, Benghazi 12-28

Chief of Station, Tripoli 12-29

List of GSFEW/1's Personnel in Libya and Related Technical Matters

Action: FYI and as stated

References: A. DIRECTOR 068233

B. TRIPOLI 4658 12-29

C. TRIFOLI 4692 (Not sent Benghazi)

1. Forwarded undor separate cover is a list of GSFEW/1's personnel in Libya (Idons A through M) and the areas to which they are assigned. Also forwarded under separato cover, but to Headquarters only, are bicgraphic skotches on ton of the thirteon men employed by GSFEW/1 as woll as a profilo of himsolf. It is hoped that basic biographic data on the other throw men, Idens F, G and J, can be obtained from LNCUFF Tripoli and Bonghazi Consular filos. It will be noted that Idon C was born in West Germany.

2. In recent wooko GSFEW/1 has employed Iden N as his secretary and she and hor husband (Idon 0) live in the apartment above that of GSFEW/1. Idon N's main duties are to handle GSFEW/1's correspondonco and groot any visitors that appoar at his apartment door. As previously stated, CSFEW/l's office is located in his apartmont and, since ho has no tolophone, anyone must call on him personally.

3. GSFEW/1 gives high tochnical capability marks to Idons A, Diand If and that Iden E is also a highly qualified man. However, Idon E has caucedogrEW/1 a fow headachou with Libyan Customs sinco Iden E has been the rocipiont of considorablo pornographic literature sont to him through the international mail from Copenhagen. Libyan customs officials have opened the mail, and although possibly secretly interested in the highly graphic material, have told GSFEW/1 that he must take action to guarantee

Attachments:: 1. Idong u/s/c

2. Bio data u/s/c

3. Skotch u/s/c

Distribution: Orig & 1 - C/AF w/att 1.2.3 u/s/c

1 - C/MEKVIVID, Athena w/utt 1 u/s/c 15-16

1 - COB, Benghazi w/att 1 u/s/C 12-28

ADTA-4481

**SECRET**

26 September 1970

201-872560

![APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DISPATCH ADTA-4481

that no further literature of this nature will come to Libya and to Iden P.

4. Again for Headquarters only is a sketch GSFEW/1 gave the Station on 23 September 1970 which shows the proposed UHF radio system expansion which was the subject of Reference C. Portions circled with red pencil are the planned expansions.

5. Regarding a SRAC system for GSFEW/1's use in Tripoli. Per Station's request that approval be given to lease another apartment in his building would certainly enable him to transmit from his own to the safe apartment. He could be provided with an appropriate radio (he already possesses two tape recorders) for this purpose. GSFEW/1 does not have a radio in his car but could have one installed and arrangements made for him to transmit to NEUWIRTH's residence. The latter is located a half block from a main thoroughfare that GSFEW/1 could frequently and naturally use to get him to various locations in Tripoli. NEUWIRTH's residence is also about a block and a half from Iden P where GSFEW/1 makes a habit of stopping each Friday evening during the "happy hour." He drives to the Iden P, as do other WOCORKERs, and after parking his car could transmit before entering the Iden P. GSFEW/1 also has a TV set, in the event this could be modified as a SRAC device, but it must be taken into consideration that the Libyan programs are only presented during evening hours. The Station also has another safehouse apartment in the Iden Q building which is also located on a busy thoroughfare and a street GSFEW/1 would also have need to take in handling business and shopping affairs. NEUWIRTH has been planning to have a radio placed in this apartment for use during meetings with Station assets.

6. Although GSFEW/1 would often use SRAC only for transmitting purposes and it would not be necessary to query him on the information he reported, two-way voice communications would probably be essential in those instances where he had technical and other fairly complicated data to relay which would necessitate his case officer being able to make certain it is understood and does not require clarification and/or amplification.

7. Other information concerning the GSFEW/1 activity will follow by separate dispatch.

Arthur E. NEUWIRTH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
RYBAT

2P
22

UNDER SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT 1 TO ADTA-4481

Assigned to Tripoli 10

Idens A. Wallen U. *KLANN, Field Engineer, and married.

B. Quintin V. *PROCHASKA, Field Engineer, and married. Will shortly be transferred to Benghazi 10 to replace L. Wayne Rogers.

C. Franz-Josef *STEFFENS, TTY Repairman, and married. FR 311 808452

D. Charles W. *SPENCE, Field Engineer, and married.

E. Richard L. *KING, Technical Controller, and single.

F. Ray *EDWARDS, Draftsman, and married.

G. Vince *KENNY, Field Engineer, and single.

Assigned to Benghazi 10

H. L. Wayno *ROGERS, Field Engineer, and single. Will shortly be transferred to Tripoli to replace Quintin V. Prochaska.

I. Donald C. *BEASLEY, Technical Controller, and single.

J. Charles *BUTERA, Field Engineer, and married.

Assigned to Tobruk 10

K. Raymond E. *LEARY, Field Engineer, and single.

L. Robert T. *SONNENBERG, Technical Controller, and single.

M. Clyde Long *COMBS, Jr., Field Engineer., and married.

***

SECRET
RYBAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
RYBAT

N. Rita *BRANDT*, DOB 10 July 1940. She is German and although her POB is not known she attended high school at Friedberg, Germany. She is married to James Brandt.

O. James *BRANDT*, U.S. citizen, and employed as a Mechanical Engineer for OASIS Oil Company in Tripoli.

P. U.S. Marine House

Q. Alitalia

SECRET
RYBAT

![picture card reproductions]
08975-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)