# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

536

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE. 24 OCT 61

SECRET

TO • DIRECTOR

FROM • LONDON

ACTION IV 2

INFO • DCI, D/DCI, DOP, COP, ADDP/A, CA/PHO, CA/PRG
CA/PROP, CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/1 NT 6, BELL 5,
VH 16, WE 7, DD/1(A), DD/1(L), AD/CI, OS, S/C 2.

ROUTING

OCT 24 21312 61

ROUTINE

IN 11257

TDCS -3/490,978

DIR INFO CARA CITE LOND 8769

ANDRE ACTING

INTEL DYVOUR.

SUPDATA SOURCE (SMOTH)

TIME FILED 1310Z

NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL OEL-30,995 CUBA

SUBJ STATEMENTS OF MANOLO RAY

DOI OCTOBER 1961

PADA ENGLAND LONDON 24 OCTOBER 1961

SOURCE (OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD

CONTACTS AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE CABLE DISTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS TDCS.

|        |     |         |     |        |     |     |
| ------ | :-: | ------- | :-: | ------ | :-: | --- |
| WH/REG |  5  | VH/4/PM |  2  | WE/R   |  1  |     |
| VH/RE  |  1  | VH/PACY |  2  | WE/6/R |  2  |     |
| VH/FI  |  2  | VH/1/V  |  1  |        |     |     |
| VH/PW  |  1  | OS/350  |  1  |        |     |     |
| WH/4   |  2  | WE/P    |  1  |        |     |     |

TDCS
PRECEDENCE

XX ROUTINE
PRIORITY

BASED ON: OEL-30,995 (HP/SMOTH) 01

DATE DISTRIBUTED: 24 OCTOBER 2244 Z 61 LIAISON: C

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# GRAM/LING ORMATION REPORTELEGRAM

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs.
793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

# NOFORN/CONTENDED CONTROL

COUNTRY: CUBA

REPORT NO. TDCS -3/490,978

SUBJECT: STATEMENTS OF MANOLA RAY, EXILE LEADER
OF THE PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT

DATE DISTR. 24 OCTOBER 1961

DATE OF INFO: OCTOBER 1961

PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE

REFERENCES: -D11257

PLACE &
DATE ACQ: ENGLAND, LONDON (24 OCTOBER 1961)

APPRAISAL: 3

FIELD REPORT NO. OEL-30,995

SOURCE:

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE

(OFFICIAL BRITISH SERVICE) FROM "SOURCE WITH GOOD CONTACTS AMONG EXILES IN CARACAS".

24

1. MANOLO RAY, EXILE LEADER OF MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (MRR - PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY MOVEMENT) SAID IN EARLY OCTOBER THAT HE WAS FIRMLY OPPOSED TO ANY INVASION OF CUBA, INSISTING THAT CASTRO'S OVERTHROW WAS TO BE ACHIEVED BY INTERNAL RESISTANCE AND THIS HAD ALREADY STARTED.

2. THE MRP WAS ORGANIZED THROUGHOUT THE ISLAND AND SUPPORTED BY ALL CLASSES OF THE POPULATION. IT HAD MEMBERS IN ALL 33 TRADE UNIONS, THE G-2, MILITIA AND THROUGHOUT THE ADMINISTRATION. RAY ESTIMATED 80 PERCENT OF POPULATION WERE OPPOSED TO CASTRO, THOUGH MAJORITY WERE NOT ACTIVELY SO, HE CONSIDERED THE MRP AT PRESENT ENJOYED MORE SUPPORT THAN THE ORIGINAL REVOLUTION HAD

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

# SECRET

# NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATS ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NICI USIA OCI ONE OCR OAR OG EXO FBI

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS-3/490,978

11257. PAGE 2

HAD AGAINST BATISTA.

3. THE MRP WAS PRESENTLY SHORT OF ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES BUT THE
   POSITION WAS IMPROVING. (A MILITIA CAPTAIN WAS RECENTLY
   SENTENCED TO 30 YEARS IN PRISON FOR PASSING ARMS TO THE MRO).
   NO HELP WHATSOEVER HAD BEEN RECEIVED BY THE INTERNAL RESISTANCΣ
   FROM THE "SOURCES IN THE UNITED STATES, WHO PROVIDED SUPPORT.
   FOR THE INVASION". THESE SOURCES WERE STILL THINKING:
   INEFFECTUALLY IN TERMS OF A FURTHER INVASION.:

4. THE GENERAL ATTITUDE OF THE RESISTANCE IN CUBA TOWARDS
   THE EXILES WAS ONE OF INDIFFERENCE MOUNTING TO CONTEMPT FOR
   SPECIFIC MOVES SUCH AS THE PROPOSED PROMOTION OF A CUBAN GOVT
   IN EXILE. WHAT THE RESISTANCE WANTED WAS FUNDS AND THE RETURN,
   BY INFILTRATION, OF TRAINED EXILES, PARTICULARLY COMMUNICATION
   EXPERTS.

5. ON THE TIMING OF CASTRO'S OVERTHROW, RAY SAID CASTRO WOULD
   NOT LAST ANOTHER YEAR. HE ADDED THAT THE SITUATION IN CUBA
   IMMEDIATELY AFTER CASTRO'S DOWNFALL WOULD DE DANGEROUS AND COULD
   DEVELOP INTO A. CIVIL WAR.

6. FIELD DISSEM: STATE. CINCLANT, CINCARIB.

END OF MESSAGE

CLASSIFICATION PSSBMINATION, CONTROLS

MIFORH/CONTINUED CONTROL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)