# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA
RECORD NUMBER: 104-10326-10027
RECORD SERIES: JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: PROJECT FILES

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

AGENCY ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: DIRECTOR
TO: WITHHELD
TITLE: WITHHELD
DATE: 06/30/1997
PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: ARRB RELEASE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
RESTRICTIONS: 1A 1B
CURRENT STATUS: RELEASED IN PART PUBLIC - RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 02/03/99
COMMENTS: JFK-M-11 : F1 : 1999.02.03.14:12:41:293120 : CIA CORRESPONDENCE RE ARRB. CORRECTED TO 2 PAGES VICE 4.

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED 104-10326-10027


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

MHFNO: 97-8380127
SENSIND:
PAGE: 1

SECRET
FRP:
STAFF

CONF: C/Oce INFO. DC/OCC, LA/CAG, LA/FIG, LA/FIGCC, LIMITED,
MDSX, OCDORECORD, ODPD, FILE, C/LA/RB5, DC/LA/RB5 (3/P)

97 8380127 ASO PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 408414
TOT: 302055Z JUN 97

SECRET
STAFF 302055Z DIRECTOR 408414
TO: IMMEDIATE SAN JOSE.

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM CHIEF/OCC INFO LA/CAG

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR STATION ASSISTANCE

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: REQUEST STATION CONTACT FORMER EMPLOYEE WHO RETIRED UNDER COVER AND RESIDES IN COSTA RICA

* 2. IN ORDER TO COMPLY WITH THE PRESIDENT<JFK ASSASSINATION> RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992, HQS REQUESTS STATION'S ASSISTANCE IN DELIVERING THE INFORMATION BELOW ASAP TO IDEN.

TEARLINE

27 JUNE 1997

DEAR COLLEAGUE:

PLEASE BE AWARE THAT YOUR NAME APPEARS IN DOCUMENTS THAT ARE BEING REVIEWED FOR RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC UNDER PUBLIC LAW 102-526 *OF 26 OCTOBER 1992, THE PRESIDENT<JOHN>F.<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION> RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992. THIS MANDATES THE PUBLIC RELEASE OF ALL INFORMATION IN THESE DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING YOUR NAME WHERE IT APPEARS, UNLESS THE ORIGINATING AGENCY CAN PROVE BY CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE TO A PRESIDENTIALLY-APPOINTED BOARD THAT ONE OR MORE LIMITED EXCEPTIONS APPLY. EVEN THEN, THE RELEASE OF THE INFORMATION MAY ONLY BE POSTPONED FOR NO MORE THAN 25 YEARS. THOSE EXCEPTIONS AS THEY APPEAR IN THE ACT FOLLOW. THE ACT IS VERY PRO-RELEASE AND REQUIRES A BALANCING OF THE PUBLIC INTEREST.

UNDER THE BOARD'S INTERPRETATION OF THE ACT, YOUR NAME CANNOT BE REDACTED FROM THE DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED UNLESS WE CAN PROVIDE EVIDENCE THAT THIS RELEASE WOULD POSE A CREDIBLE THREAT TO YOU PERSONALLY, YOUR FAMILY, OR ANY SENSITIVE ACTIVITY OR PERSON(S) YOU MAY HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH IN THE PAST. IF YOU

SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403876 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MHFNO: 97-8380127

SECRET

SENSIND:

PAGE: 2

BELIEVE THAT ANY OF THESE CONCERNS WOULD BE RAISED FROM THE PUBLIC
RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, PLEASE ADVISE THE OFFICER WHO DELIVERED THIS
LETTER TO YOU. YOU WILL NEED TO PROVIDE PERTINENT DETAILS SO THAT
A COMPELLING CASE CAN BE PRESENTED TO THE BOARD. (SEE FOLLOWING
GROUNDS FOR POSTPONEMENT OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE RECORDS.) IF THE
BOARD ORDERS THE RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, ITS RULING CAN BE REVERSED
ONLY BY THE PRESIDENT.

YOURS,

![signature of MILLS]

SINCERELY

![signature of OBETH]

FOLLOWS ARE THE GROUNDS FOR POSTPONEMENT OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF
RECORDS:

*DISCLOSURE OF<ASSASSINATION>RECORDS OR PARTICULAR INFORMATION IN
*<ASSASSINATION>RECORDS TO THE PUBLIC MAY BE POSTPONED SUBJECT TO
THE LIMITATIONS OF THIS ACT IF THERE IS CLEAR AND CONVINCING
EVIDENCE THAT--

(1) THE THREAT TO THE MILITARY DEFENSE, INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS,
OR CONDUCT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE UNITED STATES POSED BY THE
*PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE ASSASSINATION>IS OF SUCH GRAVITY THAT IT
OUTWEIGHS THE PUBLIC INTEREST, AND SUCH PUBLIC DISCLOSURE WOULD
REVEAL--

(A) AN INTELLIGENCE AGENT WHOSE IDENTITY CURRENTLY REQUIRES
PROTECTION

(B) AN INTELLIGENCE SOURCE OR METHOD WHICH IS CURRENTLY UTILIZED
BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT AND WHICH HAS NOT BEEN OFFICIALLY
DISCLOSED, THE DISCLOSURE OF WHICH WOULD INTERFERE WITH THE
CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES; OR

(C) ANY OTHER MATTER CURRENTLY RELATING TO THE MILITARY DEFENSE
INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS OR CONDUCT OF FOREIGN RELATIONS OF THE
UNITED STATES, THE DISCLOSURE OF WHICH WOULD DEMONSTRABLY IMPAIR
THE NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE UNITED STATES.

*(2) THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE<ASSASSINATION>RECORD WOULD
REVEAL THE NAME OR IDENTITY OF A LIVING PERSON WHO PROVIDED
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION TO THE UNITED STATES AND WOULD POSE A
SUBSTANTIAL RISK TO THAT PERSON;

*(3) THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE<ASSASSINATION>RECORD COULD
REASONABLY BE EXPECTED TO CONSTITUTE AN UNWARRANTED INVASION OF
PERSONAL PRIVACY, AND THAT INVASION OF PRIVACY IS SO SUBSTANTIAL
THAT IT OUTWEIGHS THE PUBLIC INTEREST;

*(4) THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE<ASSASSINATION>RECORD WOULD
COMPROMISE THE EXISTENCE OF AN UNDERSTANDING OF CONFIDENTIALITY
CURRENTLY REQUIRING PROTECTION BETWEEN A GOVERNMENT AGENT AND A
COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL OR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT, AND PUBLIC
DISCLOSURE WOULD BE SO HARMFUL THAT IT OUTWEIGHS THE PUBLIC
SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403876 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MHFNO: 97-8380127                                                    SECRET                                                   PAGE: 3
INTEREST, OR                                          SENSIND:

*(5) THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF THE<ASSASSINATION>RECORD WOULD
REVEAL A SECURITY OR PROTECTIVE PROCEDURE CURRENTLY UTLIZED, OR
REASONABLY EXPECTED TO BE UTILIZED, BY THE SECRET SERVICE OR
ANOTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCY RESPONSIBLE FOR PROTECTING GOVERNMENT
OFFICIALS, AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE WOULD BE SO HARMFUL THAT IT
OUTWEIGHS THE PUBLIC INTEREST.

TEAR
LINE

3. BECAUSE OF THE TIME CRITICAL NATURE OF THIS REQUIREMENT,
   REQUEST THAT YOU ASK IDEN FOR AN IMMEDIATE RESPONSE AND REQUEST
   THAT RESPONSE BE CABLED BACK TO HEADQUARTERS VIA IMMEDIATE
   PRECEDENCE.

ALL PREVIOUS RECIPIENTS OF THIS LETTER HAVE HAD CONCERNS OR
QUESTIONS; FOLLOWING ARE ANSWERS TO SOME OF THE MOST FREQUENTLY
ASKED QUESTIONS:

*A. WHY IS MY NAME IN THE<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS?
WE DO NOT KNOW EXACTLY BUT YOUR NAME MAY HAVE BEEN MENTIONED IN A
CABLE OR DOCUMENT, OR YOU MAY HAVE COORDINATED OR SIGNED A CABLE
*OR DOCUMENT WITH REFERENCE TO THE ASSASSINATION.>

B. WHAT DOES THIS MEAN?
IT MEANS YOUR NAME WILL BE INCLUDED IN THE PUBLIC RELEASE OF ALL
*DOCUMENTS PERTINENT TO THE ASSASSINATION. THE DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN
RELEASED TO THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION
(NARA) WITH THE NAME REMOVED AND IF WE DO NOT MAKE A COMPELLING
CASE THE PRESIDENTIAL BOARD WILL RELEASE NEW VERSIONS OF THE
DOCUMENTS WITH THE NAMES.

C. WHAT EXACTLY DOES "RELEASE" MEAN?
IT MEANS THE GENERAL PUBLIC WILL HAVE ACCESS TO THE DOCUMENT VIA
NARA. THERE ARE PROFESSIONAL RESEARCHERS WAITING FOR ACCESS TO
THE MATERIAL SO THAT THEY CAN RESEARCH THE VARIOUS CONSPIRACY
THEORIES. WE KNOW OF SOME ORGANIZATIONS THAT WILL MOST LIKELY PUT
THE INFORMATION IN COMPUTER SYTEMS SO IT CAN BE EASILY SEARCHED.

D. WHAT IF I DON'T WANT MY NAME RELEASED?
YOU AND WE WILL HAVE TO CONVINCE THE PRESIDENTIALLY APPOINTED
REVIEW BOARD THAT YOUR SITUATION MEETS THE CRITERIA PROVIDED IN
THE GROUNDS FOR POSTPONEMENT OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS. (TO
BE ABSOLUTELY FRANK, THIS IS EXTREMELY DIFFICULT TO DO AND THE
VERY FEW CASES WHICH WE HAVE WON HAVE BEEN BASED ON VERY SPECIFIC
AND COMPELLING REASONS.)

E. WHAT DO I DO NEXT?
IF RELEASE OF YOUR NAME IS NOT A PROBLEM, PLEASE ADVISE. IF YOU
DO NOT WANT YOUR NAME RELEASED, YOU NEED TO ADVISE US OF THAT FACT
AND EXPLAIN IN DETAIL WHY RLEASE WOULD BE HARMFUL TO YOU AND
NATIONAL SECURITY. WE HAVE FOUGHT AGAINST RELEASE ON THE
PRINCIPLE OF THE COVER MECHANISM WITHOUT SUCCESS TO DATE, AND WE
SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403876 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

MHFNO: 97-8380127 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 4

WILL CONTINUE THE EFFORT. THE BOARD HAS NOT BEEN AND IS NOT
LIKELY TO BECOME SYMPATHETIC TO A PRINCIPLE-BASED ARGUMENT.

F. IF MY NAME IS RELEASED, WHAT ABOUT MY COVER STATUS?
THE IMPACT OF THE RELEASE OF THE RELATIONSHIP OF YOUR TRUE NAME
AND THE AGENCY WILL HAVE TO BE LOOKED AT CAREFULLY TO DETERMINE
THE VIABILITY OF CONTINUED COVER PROTECTION.

4. FILE: NONE. CL BY: 0489932, CL REASON: 1.5C, DECL ON:
   X1, DRV FROM: COV-2-87.
   CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>
   RELNO: DORELS0100727595
   ORIG: OCC/EXO/PP (MATHIAS, 46157); AUTH: DC/OCC (JASPER); REL:
   LA/FIGCC (BOBBIN).

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403876 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)