# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-1531377 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

// FRP: , , , , , , , ,

STAFF

CONF: CIC/LA INFO: C/ORMS, CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGCIU, CIC/CEGLA,
CIDORECORD, LA/COG, LA/COGSA, LA/SAGSC, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/LA,
DC/LA (3/P)

95 1531377 ASP PAGE 001
TOT: 311638Z AUG 95 DIRECTOR 429114

SECRET

STAFF 311638Z DIRECTOR 429114

TO: PRIORITY BRASILIA INFO SAO PAULO.

FROM: LIMIT CIC/LA INFO LA/SAGSC, LA/COGSA, LA/COG, CIC/CEGLA

SLUGS: WNINTEL REAM

*SUBJECT: TZFRESH INFO ON RIO<JFK>CONFERENCE

REF: A. BRASILIA 20490 95 1473908

B. SAO PAULO 61839 95 1447145

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: SEE BELOW...

* 2. PLEASE PASS INFORMATION ON RIO<JFK>CONFERENCE INCLUDING THAT FROM TZFRESH (SUITABLY CAVEATED) PROVIDING LISTING OF US AND OTHER ATTENDEES AND CONFERENCE SCHEDULE TO EMBASSY AND CONSULATE WITH THE SUGGESTION THAT THE INFORMATION BE PASSED TO STATE. THE CONFERENCE AGENDA, COUPLED WITH ESCALANTE'S PARTICIPATION, SUGGESTS A SIGNIFICANT ANTI-NWBOLTON PROPAGANDA EFFORT ON THE PART OF THE CUBANS. WE HAVE PASSED REF INFORMATION TO FOIA, WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING WHAT NWBOLTON INFORMATION ON THE *<ASSASSINATION>WILL BE RELEASED. APPRECIATE TZFRESH CONTINUING COVERAGE OF EVENTS. MANY THANKS.

3. FILE: 010-009-013, 201-969899. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>

RELNO: E233485

ORIG: CIC/LA (MAHNCKE, 34428); AUTH: CIC/LA (GINSBURG); COORD:
LA/LGL (TELECOORD), LA/COG, LA/SCGSC; INFO: LA/COGSA; REL:
LA/SCGSC (BLEVINS). CL BY 187203.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)