# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FRD:

STAFF

CONF: SUR-8 INFO: FILE, VR, DDO-4, DDA, AGC/DDC, C/PCS, CA-Q,
CCS-2, CI-4. COMM1-7, CWD-2, DDO/DO, IP/DMS, LA-8, LSVIS, LSN/MIL,
ODFD-D, OGC-2, OLC, SE-8, SECUR-3, (62/P)

78 0421219 PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 188531
TOT: 152147Z MAR 78

SECRET
STAFF 152146Z DIRECTOR 188531
TO: [LONDON.] 15-1

NINTEL [MH]SPLASH (CKLEG [SG]CHART [RT] WINNER

REF: LONDON 92099 0391413

1. FOLLOWING ARE HEADQUARTERS TRACES FYI (LONDON) ONLY
   ON WILLIAM GAUDET AND
   ANTONIO VECIANA MENTIONED REF.

2. WILLIAM GEORGE GAUDET

DPOB: 21 SEPTEMBER 1908, ST. JAMES, LOUISIANA, USA.

CIT: U.S.

AS OF CA 1953 GAUDET'S ADDRESS WAS GIVEN AS 2176 ESPLANADE AVENUE,
NEW ORLEANS, LOUISIANA. HE WAS KNOWLEDGEABLE OF LATIN AMERICA
AND PUBLISHED IN THE EARLY 1950'S A MAGAZINE OR BULLETIN "LATIN
AMERICAN REPORTS". HE WAS A CONTACT OF DCD FROM 1948 UNTIL NOVEMBER
1961 IN NEW ORLEANS AREA. HE WAS DEBRIEFED ON HIS LATIN AMERICAN
TRAVELS 1948-1955 AND WAS A CASUAL CONTACT FROM 1955-1961,
GAUDET WAS AMONG INDIVIDUALS LISTED IN A LETTER OF 24 JANUARY
1978 TO CIA FROM THE SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS. THE
COMMITTEE INTENDED CONDUCT INTERVIEWS WITH GAUDET AND INQUIRED
IF OCD HAD EVER BEEN IN CONTACT WITH HIM. HQS RESPONDED ON 27 JAN
1978 SAYING WE HAD BEEN IN CONTACT WITH HIM FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS,
BUT HAD NO CURRENT CONTACT WITH OR RECENT INTEREST IN HIM.

2. IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT GAUDET HAS MADE THIS CLAIM
   BEFORE, THAT OF HAVING BEEN AN "OPERATIVE" AND HAS EXAGGERATED
   HIS ROLE WITH THE AGENCY. AS AN INTERESTING HISTORICAL ASIDE,
   AN ARTICLE IN THE WASHINGTON "STAR" (15 JAN 1976) REPORTED GAUDET
   HAD RECEIVED MEXICAN TOURIST VISA IN NEW ORLEANS, APPARENTLY CIRCA
1903. HIS VISA NUMBER IMMEDIATELY PRECEDED THAT OF VISA GRANTED
      LEE HARVEY OSWALD,

3. ANTONIO CARLOS VECIANA BLANCH (201-0312966)

DPOB: 18 OCTOBER 1928, CUBA

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

STAFF

78 0421219

PAGE 003
TOT: 152147Z MAR 78 DIRECTOR 188531

ORIG: EURBC (WERDEN); COORD: AC/ACS/LSN (KUHN); FOR AGC/DDC
LA/COG/COCI (SPEED);
REL: C/E/BC (STIMSON)

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)