1104-10506-10028 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Declassified and Approved for Release by the Centrai intelligence Agency Date: 2003

FBI w/o
REVIEWED BY FBVJFK TASK FORCE
ON 9/27/98dak
RELEASE IN FULL
RELEASE IN PART
TOTAL DENIAL

RETIRED FILE
JOB 84-2772
BOX 7 FOLDER-001
DESENSITIZED
per Dol 70-17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TOP SECRET
## DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION
SOURCE: Latin America Division/DDO
CONTROL NUMBER: SC-01755-77
DATE OF DOCUMENT: 29 June 1977
DATE DOCUMENT RECEIVED:
COPY NUMBER (S): 1 and 5
LOGGED BY:
NUMBER OF PAGES: 148 DOCUMENT NO:
NUMBER OF ATTACHMENTS: 4

FROM: AC/LA Division
DATE: 29/6/77

| TO OFFICE  | NAME                    | SIGNATURE                              | DATE       |
| ---------- | ----------------------- | -------------------------------------- | ---------- |
| 1 SA/C/LAD | William C. Sturbitts    | ![Signature of William C. Sturbitts]   | 6/30/77    |
| 2 C/LA/COG | Frederick W. LaTrash    | ![Signature of Frederick W. LaTrash]   | 6/30/77    |
| 3 AC/LAD   | George V. Lauder        | ![Signature of George V. Lauder]       | 30/Jun/76  |
| 4 ADDO     | Theodore G. Shackley    | ![Signature of Theodore G. Shackley]   |            |
| 5 IG       | Scott Breckinridge, Jr. | ![Signature of Scott Breckinridge, Jr] | 13/July/77 |

Approval
Action
Comment
Concurrences
Information
Direct Reply
Preparation of Reply
Recommendation
Signature
Return
Dispatch
File

SEC. CL. ORIGIN
DATE OF DOC DATE REC'D DATE OUT SUSPENSE DATE CROSS REFERENCE OR POINT OF FILING

TO
FROM
SUBJ.

ROUTING DATE SENT

COURIER NO. ANSWERED NO REPLY

Handle via Comint Channels

# CONFIDENTIAL
# SECRET
# TOP SECRET

GROUP I
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SC-01755-77

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Inspector General

ATTENTION : Mr. Scott Breckinridge, Jr.

VIA : Acting Deputy Director for Operations

FROM : George V. Lauder
Acting Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : Latin America Division Task Force Report
of Possible Cuban Complicity in the
John F. Kennedy Assassination

1. Attached is the Latin America Division report of
   findings relative to Cuban complicity in the assassination
   of former President John F. Kennedy. This research which was
   conducted from mid-October 1976 to June 1977 at the direction
   of the Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, E. Henry Knoche,
   reviewed all Agency operations conducted against Cuba from
   1 January 1960 to 1 January 1965 (concentrating on the period
   1 January 1960 to 22 November 1963). We found no definitive
   proof that the Castro regime was implicated in the Kennedy
   assassination.

2. The report is comprised of the following sections:

LAD/JFK Task Force - How Research was conducted

Attachment A: Chronology of Findings (125 pages)
with a Top Secret Annex (14 pages)

Attachment B: List of Task Force participants

Attachment C: Outline of the complete LAD/JFK
Task Force files and description
of their contents.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

13-00000

SECRET/SENSITIVE

This massive and thorough research effort with all back-up documents has been assigned the official classification number 019-604-001. This report is submitted in the format requested by Mr. Scott Breckinridge, Jr., Task Force Leader.

![signature of George V. Lauder]
George V. Lauder

Attachments, a/s





SECRET/SENSITIVE

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET/SENSITIVE

June 1977

SUBJECT: Latin America Division/JFK Task Force How Research was Conducted

1. The LA Division Task Force to investigate records in connection with the assassination of President Kennedy was formally organized in mid-October 1976. Its purpose, basically, was to research all Agency operations conducted against Cuba from 1 January 1960 to 1 January 1965 (concentrating on the period up to 22 November 1963) for any evidence that such operations might have provoked the Government of Cuba to take executive action against President Kennedy. Researchers were also alert to activities seemingly directed against the U.S./CIA.

2. Reference to material for this research was obtained from the LAD Registry, the Cuba Desk machine runs, and a special comprehensive file listing prepared for this purpose by ISS (Information Services Staff). It was originally thought that material pertinent to the search would number approximately 900 operational folders, plus related 201 dossiers. It was later determined, however, that a thorough review should include additional operational and subject files which brought the total to well over two thousand files. In view of the date of the material, much of it, both operational

# SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

- - 2 -

and subject `, has been retired to Archives at Warrenton, Virginia. The remainder is held at Headquarters in IP/Files or IP/Archives. All 201 dossiers are retained at Headquarters. This material is easily retrievable through the use of specific job numbers and file reference numbers recorded and retained in the LAD/JFK Task Force files (too numerous to cite herein.)

3. Following is a breakdown of the types and numbers of files reviewed, criteria employed in the research, the findings, and organization of the material:

a. Types and Number of Files Reviewed:

1.  Operational 1,729
    (601 with findings and
    1,128 with no findings)

2.  Subject 547
    (186 with findings and
    361 with no findings)

3.  Cuba Policy Files 101

4.  C/WHD Chrono Files (TFW Chronos) 37 (13 -49)

5.  Official 201 dossiers 100 plus

    TOTAL 2,514

b. Criteria Used in the Research:

As a guide the research group followed some 33 Terms of Reference provided by the Deputy IG, which were compiled on the basis of issues raised in Book V,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

- 3 -

of the Senate Select Committee Final Report on the
Assassination. (Book V, and a 23 May 1967
Memorandum for the Record by the Inspector General
on Plots to Assassinate Fidel Castro, were required
reading for the researchers.) In addition to the
Terms of Reference, the group remained alert to other
items of interest brought to its attention by the IG
staff, on an ad hoc basis. A name trace was always
run, and/or 201 dossier, if available, reviewed, on
any individual allegedly involved in an assassination
plot against President Kennedy or Fidel Castro. This
task was made somewhat easier as the result of a
memorandum prepared by the Cuba Desk, in August 1975,
based on traces of the names in the Black Book that
Fidel Castro passed to George McGovern which dealt
with individuals allegedly involved in assassination
attempts against Castro.

c. Findings and Organization of the Findings:

Each researcher submitted a draft paper noting the
Subject of the folder (s) reviewed, a brief description of the
activity, and a copy of the document (s) (findings) which
contained information believed to be pertinent to the re-
view. Also included were Job numbers, Official File
numbers, inclusive dates of material researched, and
number of volumes reviewed. Beginning in January 1977, at
the request of the IG Staff, the researchers also began
noting FBI and/or other government agencies knowledge of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

-4-

information. Separate, finished, memoranda were prepared, on the basis of these data, including the heading *Findings*. This heading lists the specific document number (s) and other pertinent data, and a few lines providing the gist of the document (s) for purpose of easy and quick reference. These memoranda, with a copy of the document (s) attached, are filed in alphabetical order, by project and subject, in hard-back green folders as part of the official LAD/JFK Task Force files under the official classification number 019-604-001 (Volumes XI through XX). Also included in the records are two folders (Volumes IX and X) containing 1,439 draft memoranda with negative findings.

4. Appended are the following:

A) Chronology of Findings (125 pages) with Top Secret UMBRA Annex (14 pages);

B) List of Task Force participants and their functions;

C) Outline of the complete LAD/JFK Task Force files and description of their contents.

![SECRET/SENSITIVE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# ATTACHMENT A

CHRONOLOGY of FINDINGS (125 Pages)

with a TOP SECRET Annex (14 Pages) Code Word Material


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# CHRONOLOGY OF FINDINGS

Anti-Castro Activities - Cuba 19-9-9

HVCA 11020 dated 28 February 1964

A Caracas Station asset reported an operation called "Plan Judas" being constructed at that time inside Cuba. The plan reportedly involved an internal uprising with the support of certain Cuban military figures conspiring against Fidel CASTRO. Key figures reportedly included Juan ALMEIDA, Efigenio AMEIJEIRAS Delgado, Pepin NARANJO, Regino BOTTI, and two COSSIO brothers. On 24 February 1964, Francisco SUAREZ Quinones, a JURE (Revolutionary Junta) member in Caracas, told U.S. Embassy officials that JURE was then sponsoring a plan to assassinate Fidel CASTRO and other high-ranking Cuban Government officials as part of an operation designed to incite an internal rebellion in Cuba. The Station reported this plan, speculating that it may be connected in some way with Plan Judas.

DBA 77673 dated 15 July 1964 (FBI)

Reported plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate selected Cuban Government leaders. Individuals involved included Byron CAMERON, owner of m.v. "Cayman Hope," Teofilo BABUN Franco, co-owner of Antillean Marine Shipping


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

- 2 -

Corp. and two BABUN employees, Oscar FERNANDEZ Veigo
and Eliseo GOMEZ Fernandez; also, Jose "Pepin" BOSCH,
Julio LOBO Olavarria and Eduardo GARCIA of the Garcia
Lines, New York City. One of the ship owners allegedly
had contacts with the underworld through his partner,
a former police officer from St. Louis with tie-in
to elements of the "Cosa Nostra."

DBA 92798 dated 7 December 1964 (FBI)

An FBI source reported an attempt to be made against
Fidel CASTRO, Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA within
Cuba during period 20 Dec 64 to 10 Jan 65 by a small
elite group in La Cabana Military Base, Havana, which
belonged to a security section inside of the Cuban
Intelligence Service. Plans were to be carried out
by Cubans in Cuba with no help from the U.S.

Anti-CASTRO PM Operations 19-9-9

DBA 43687 dated 20 June 1963 (FBI)

On 18 June 1963 an unnamed representative of Ejercito
Cubano Anticomunista (Cuban Anti-Communist Army) met with
a representative of Santos TRAFFICANTE, described as
a former gambling czar in Cuba and presently a member
of the Mafia in the U.S., in an effort to obtain rockets,
high explosives, and detonators for use in raids
against Cuba.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

DBA 45327 dated 12 July 1963 (FBI)

Manolo AGUILAR, 829 S.W. 9th Avenue, Miami, leader
of the Frente Revolucionario Anticomunista (FRAC)
(Anti-Communist Revolutionary Front) obtained some
100 Beretta 7.65 caliber pistols with silencers which
his organization planned to eventually use in Cuba to
assassinate various Cuban leaders. AGUILAR allegedly
obtained these pistols from an unidentified American
who had connections with the Mafia.

DBA 45895 dated 19 July 1963 (FBI)

On 15 July 1963 the Miami News carried an article "Back
Stage with Bobby" by Hal Hendrix, which related growing
speculation in Miami and Washington that Attorney General
Robert Kennedy was quietly backing a new anti-Castro
operation with exiles Manuel ARTIME, Enrique RUIZ Williams,
and Roberto and Jose SAN ROMAN. A1l held high posts in
Brigade 2506 (Bay of Pigs). Speculation linked Kennedy's
close association with these exiles to a deal with
Nicaragua through ex-President Luis SOMOZA.

Anti-CASTRO PM OPERATIONS 19-9-9/1

DBA 78251 dated 18 August 1964 (FBI)

Reported plan of Cuban exile leaders to assassinate


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

- 4 -

selected Cuban Government leaders. Prices allegedly
agreed upon were $100,000 to assassinate Fidel CASTRO;
$20,000 for Raul CASTRO; and $20,000 for "Che"
GUEVARA. This information was provided to the FBI
by another Government Agency that allegedly had
several meetings with one Byron CAMERON, Fort
Lauderdale, Fla. CAMERON allegedly was acquainted
with several policemen in St. Louis with ties to
the underworld. CAMERON denied involvement with
policemen connected with the underworld and said he
had never discussed with anyone plans to assassinate
Fidel or others.

JMARC Operation - 19-120-15

DIRECTOR 36823 (OUT 90086) 25 June 1960

Cable to Mexico and Havana. Reported that five
Castro agents recently left Cuba, 3 for Miami and
2 for New York, with task to abduct AMHAWK (Manuel
Antonio VARONA y Loredo). Source was PELAEZ (fnu) thru
BARKER's wife. Information was passed to the FBI.
Suggested that VARONA be warned to take normal security
precautions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

XAAZ 6269 (OUT 90031) 26 June 1960

The Agency provided the above information on proposed abduction of VARONA to the FBI, and advised that the same information was being sent to I&NS.

JMARC - PM Operations General 19-132-2

DIRECTOR 09972 (OUT 88974) 31 Oct 1960

Cable to Guatemala giving details of training of assault force for paramilitary ops against Cuba.

GUAT 821 (IN 1688) 13 January 1961 to BELL.

FYI: Reported that Alexander ROURKE, free lance newsman from New York City in Miami, told ESOLEO-1 that Frank FIORINI and Dr. Orlando BOSCH of Miami, representing man in Cuba named DIEGO (fnu), were recruiting and equipping force in Florida to assault Cuba 18 January.

The organization was receiving financial aid from an organization in New York City known as Anti-Communist International Association.

DBF 90801 dated 10 March 1961 (FBI)

New York FBI office advised that invasion of Cuba was to take place week of 6 March 1961 by members of an anti-Castro group from Nassau, Bahamas, British West Indies.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

- 6 -

JMARC Program 19-120-15/2

MASH 1470 (IN 38669) 6 Nov 1960.

Cable to CIA Headquarters and Havana stating that
RECAREY, (fnu), cousin of a Guat trainee, arrived
MASH from Havana on 5 November to check bonafides
of Eduardo OJEDA Camaraza. OJEDA had made contact
with AMYUM/AMRUNG Havana and told details of MASH
recruitment, training, names of trainees and mission
in Cuba. MASH feared AMRUNG/AMYUM may try kill OJEDA
as Castro penetration/provocateur if bonafides not
established.

RIMM 5846 (IN 2708) 4 June 1961

Radio message #84 from agent in Cuba advised "functionary of
Italian Embassy by name of MORATORI says he works for one
intelligence org. of yours, says he is in contact with
Martin Elena and others and that you have plans for
invasion within 30 days after killing Fidel. Advise if
we can confide in MORATORI."

BELL 0987 (OUT 9804) 6 June 1961

Radio message #72 to agent "MORATORI unknown to us. Do
not confide in him. MORATORI's information of pending
invasion within 30 days after killing Fidel not true.
Beware of rumor mongers and provocateurs."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

- 7 -

AMBLEAK 19-6-58/3,4

UFG 2267 dated 23 January 1963

Reported on activities of Manuel Antonio VARONA of "Rescate" (Revolutionary Democratic Rescue) in Costa Rica and other Central American countries re discussing Cuban situation with foreign ministers of those countries. While in Costa Rica he negotiated with local political personalities to recruit and train an anti-Communist paramilitary force along lines then being developed in Colombia.

AMBRUSH Operation 19-5-6

Document dated 19 August 1961 (No document symbol)

Handcarried to Headquarters from JMWAVE. Document contains comments from AMPAL-1 on pro-Cuban sources in the U.S. He reported information from other sources that Fidel CASTRO is sending in many G-2 women instead of men for his clandestine operations between U.S and Cuba. Also reported that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fidel CASTRO, and agents in all branches of the U.S. Government of importance including the CIA. Further, that all people in Cuba picked up for working for CIA are done so because of information from these agents. The source was told of suspicions of one Eugenio, a Cuban. /COMMENT: SLIPSTREAM-1 in 1976 advised that one Eugenio MARTINEZ in Miami was a Castro


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

- 8 -

agent. One Eugenio Rolando MARTINEZ Careaga was
a Miami Station agent involved in the Watergate
breakin. There was no reference to assassination
in this file.

AMCANOE Operation 19-6-91

TDCSDB 3/654,571 dated 9 May 1963

Reported meeting on 7 May 63 between Paulino A. SIERRA,
a Cuban lawyer from Chicago, and representatives of 43
Cuban exile groups in Miami. SIERRA claimed he had
backing of wealthy Chicago business people who were
willing to loan up to $30 million dollars for the
purpose of overthrowing the Castro Government. SIERRA
said the money could be made available to organizations
having the capability of carrying out clandestine activity
in Cuba.

WAVE 8743 (IN 43724) 22 May 1963

A Miami Station asset reported information from Julio
GARCERAN del Vall y Souza, of the PGCC, (Pro-Constitutional
Government of Cuba in Exile) who, on 9 May 63, said that
Cuban exile groups were puzzled with regard to the American
policy toward Cuba and the exile community. GARCERAN said
that among persons who recently visited him were Enrique
RUIZ Williams Alfert, a personal friend of Attorney
General Robert F. Kennedy, and Jaime VARELA Canosa; also


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 9 -

PERULLERO (fnu). Those three reportedly represented a group of members of Brigade 2506 who had been training at Fort Jackson, South Carolina. RUIZ Williams was trying to form a nucleus for an invasion force.
GARCERAN had been offered use of a large ranch in Colombia for operations against Cuba but feared that use of such would create an international incident and provoke a war between Cuba and Colombia.

Memorandum for the Record by Carl Trettin 3 Mar 1964

AMCANOE-1 reported that an acquaintance of his (unidentified), a businessman and ship owner with interest in slot machine business - placing them in gambling houses - placed the man in contact with elements in the underworld primarily through his partner, a former St. Louis police officer. Through the latter, there was tie-in with the Cosa Nostra. The Cosa Nostra interests alleged to have numerous contacts still available to them in Cuba and offered to assassinate Castro for $150 thousand dollars.

UFGA 15233 dated 15 April 1964

Report on a Byron CAMERON who said that he represented an unidentified group of persons who had made contact with two Cuban gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel CASTRO. CAMERON reportedly was associated with a Mr. S.W. TYLER (no identifiable traces) of Caribbean Producer, Inc., Miami Springs, Fla., and Herbert F.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

- 10 -

JENNE (no traces) with the firm F.A. Johnson, Inc.,
Fort Lauderdale, Fla. CAMERON was reported as
allegedly belonging to the Mafia.

UFGA 15954 dated 11 May 1964

On 3 March 64 CAMERON held a meeting with Teofilo BABUN
Franco, Oscar FERNANDEZ Viego, Eliseo GOMEZ Fernandez,
Freddie GARCIA, Eddie GARCIA and Miguel Guillermo
TRUYOL-Gimeno. CAMERON mentioned that he was in contact
with an unidentified group who would be willing to
assassinate select Cuban officials for cash: specifically
CAMERON was interested in assassinating Fidel CASTRO,
Raul CASTRO and "Che" GUEVARA. They agreed on $100
thousand for Fidel, $20 thousand for Raul and $20
thousand for "Che." CAMERON made it fairly clear at
the beginning that the Mafia was involved.

AMCLOCK Production and Correspondence 19-6-133/4
(Currently PLSLSTEEL)

ESGW 193 dated 2 September 1960

Dispatch from Headquarters to Geneva and Bern
forwarding general requirements for asset. One
question was precautions taken to prevent possible
assassination attempts of top Cuban officials.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

- 11 -

TDCSDB 3/651,885 dated 25 October 1962

Reported view of Soviet diplomat on the Cuban situation. The Soviet diplomat, Minister MOLYAKOV, told a Bloc diplomat that he thought the U.S. action with regard to Cuba was "an election affair." He professed to believe that Kennedy learned on an election tour that his popularity had dropped and undertook the Cuban measure to "become the leader again," and gain mass support. Further, that it worked, and Kennedy again had succeeded in being the ''man of the nation." The Soviet diplomat commented that the USSR would not let the American move go without retaliation. /COMMENT: This no doubt referred to the missile crisis.[^7]

TDCSDB 3/652,011 dated 1 November 1962

Reported reaction of Satellite officials to the Cuban missile developments. One remarked that Cuba was as important to the USA as to the USSR and thus conflict was inevitable. Some agreed that President Kennedy had made a tactical error in not simply invading Cuba without warning. An East European remarked that all the European nations had shown understanding of "Kennedy and his ships, and would let him play around with them until the elections, but after the elections he would have to put them away and negotiate seriously." The source commented that it was clear that the officials had no clear insight into Soviet intentions, or what the real

[^7]:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

- 12 -

ramifications of Cuba would be, but were talking to reinforce their faith.

GNVA 6117 (IN 00894) dated 18 January 1964

Report on Soviet Bloc officials' attitude towards U.S. internal political developments. An East European attributed the assassination of President Kennedy to the Birch Society but stated that something must have gone wrong at the last moment. He speculated that an attack on the USSR was to have followed on the heels of the assassination but had somehow been forestalled.

GNVA 4523 (IN 38202 ) dated 19 December 1962

Reported that Soviet offensive missiles were introduced into Cuba as part of a twofold Soviet-Cuba plan which was agreed upon "several months ago." Emplacement of Soviet defensive missiles was to constitute the first phase. For the second phase, a major Soviet fleet unit was to have been invited to visit Cuba on a cruise. This was expected to cause immediate U.S. reaction, but the presence of Soviet fleet units surrounding Cuba was considered an effective guarantee that the U.S. would not resort to immediate invasion or other armed action to eliminate missile threat. Purpose of exercise was to force


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

- 13 -

a major change of U.S. policy towards Cuba. It was anticipated that U.S. reaction would be violent, and from the beginning the plan called for immediate withdrawal at the price of agreement by U.S. that it would end hostile attitude towards Cuba. The Soviets did not implement phase two. This disappointed and angered the Cubans. The Cuban leaders considered that the Soviets had besmirched its own honor and offended the pride of Cuba. KHRUSHCHEV composed a letter to President Kennedy proposing a deal concerning Soviet missile bases in Cuba and American bases in Turkey. KHRUSHCHEV reportedly later regretted the phraseology and not having consulted with Cuba prior to dispatch of the letter.

GNVA 6316 (IN 31199) dated 3 March 1964

Raul ROA said that prior to his assassination, President Kennedy "established certain contacts" with Cuba. Kennedy had sent emissaries to contact Cubans. ROA specifically cited contacts that had taken place in New York. ROA thought that Kennedy would have gone on to negotiate with Cuba, for practical reasons, which would have been to Cuba's advantage. He thought that President Johnson was unaware of Kennedy's actions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

- 14 -

AMCOBRA (later AMBANTY) Operation 19-132-11

WAVE 7250 (IN 57364) dated 12 November 1963

Radio message from agent. "The sewage chief of Havana was
executed. He was accused of having given the sewage
plans to the CIA in order to install the bombs that
exploded during Fidel's speech to the Defense Committees."

WAVE 7523 (IN 61119) dated 15 November 1963

Radio message from agent. "The obligatory military
service makes us reduce intelligence information. I will
have to decide between insurrection and departing Cuba.
I have decided on insurrection. I hope you will help
me with the weapons I need."

WAVE 7594 (IN 61966) dated 16 November 1963

Message to agent. "As you agreed when you were here,
there can be no insurrection in Cuba until it can take
place simultaneously throughout Cuba. Such a total
uprising is not possible at this time."

WAVE 7593 (IN 61967) dated 16 November 1963

Message to agent. "If you insist on precipitant action
before the whole plan is ready you are going to draw all
the enemy forces down upon you and the people of Pinar
which will result in the complete destruction of every-
thing you and your men have labored so hard to create.
We cannot support an insurrection now. We will continue
to support you and group as agreed upon."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

WAVE 7707 (IN 62544) dated 17 November 1963

Message to agent. We are unable to support insurrection in Pinar now because it would be premature.

WAVE 8125 (IN 67382) dated 24 November 1963

Message from agent. "Sincere grief and condolence for loss of the greatest leader and statesman of our time, John Kennedy."

WAVE 8598 (IN 75428) dated 6 December 1963

Message to agent. "Thank you for sincere condolences on death of President Kennedy."

AMCOG Operation 19-6-63

WAVE 1465 (IN 11710) dated 4 February 1964

Agent reported that he was told that OSWALD was in Havana between 2 and 7 October 1963. A lady saw him in shirt sleeves, wearing good shoes and smoking American cigars accompanied by Clemente MORERA, an employee of Terminales Mambisas who belongs to the DSE. He (OSWALD) was seen by the sister of Comandante MIRANDA."

/COMMENT: Note document # 517-218 for FOIA Review on June 1976./


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

- 16 -

COMMANDOS MAMBISAS 19-126-45

A 4 November 1963 *Miami Herald* article, and 12 November 1963 *Washington Post* article revealed that Fidel CASTRO was extremely upset at the recent successes of the Commandos Mambisas raids targetted principally against sugar cane industry.

AMCONCERT Project 19-6-41

The Agency began this project in March 1960. Its objective was to provide information on plans and activities of the Government of Cuba and opposition to the GOC. The principal asset was Francisco VARONA Alonso (201-234983.). VARONA was recruited in April 1959 to elicit information from contacts in Cuba. He was arrested in April 1961, released, and returned to Miami in February 1962. He was used by Miami Station as an informant and terminated February 1969 for being unproductive, unreliable, a poor security risk, and hostile to the U.S. and the U.S.G.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

- 17 -

Control of Cuban Travelers 200-9-49

KNGS 0948 (IN 54974) dated 5 November 1963

On 15 October 63 Dominican student Carlos Manuel
CABRAL Lofontaine attempted to enter Cuba via Kingston
ostensibly to attend architect conference. Jamaican
authorities, suspecting the trip to be a pretext,
returned CABRAL to the Dom. Rep.

The First Secretary of the Cuban Embassy Ottawa, Osvaldo
RELOVA, visited Kingston from 14-21 October 1963,
purpose unexplained. While there he lived in the
Consulate the entire stay.

HABA 12,838 dated 5 November 1963

Report concerning unofficial irregular air service
established between Cuba and Brazil, for transportation
of political rather than commercial travelers.

POSN 0340 (IN 54917) dated 5 November 1963

On 25 October 1963 a Russian plane arrived in Pointe-
A-Pitre, Guadeloupe, with 60 passengers. 41 transferred
to Panama for Rio; the remainder left on the "Russian"
plane. COMMENT: note on cable states that the Cubans
were returning from architects congress.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

- 18 -

AMCOVE Operation 19-6-93/2,3,4

WAVE 7356 (IN 58343) dated 10 November 1963

Re security crackdown in Cuba, largest since early 1961. Believed to be due to discontent among Cuban populace re economic failures, and CASTRO's fears of impact of recent raids on Cuba which would increase spontaneous sabotage inside Cuba which he may interpret as meaning U.S. Government has stepped up activities to overthrow his regime. CASTRO plans to counter these aspirations by USG with full use of police powers and repressive measures.

TDCSDB 3/658,075 dated 27 November 1963

All Cuban combat units were confined to bases effective 23 November 1963. Following news of death of President Kennedy, Defense Committee members and personnel at certain work centers in Cuba began to celebrate event.

AMCOVE-1 SW Message #60 dated 24 November 1963

Reported strange activities at the Brazilian Embassy in Havana following news of President Kennedy's death 22 November 1963.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

- 19 -

AMCOVE-1 SW Message #66 dated 5 December 1963

Report giving names of travelers from Prague on 22 November 1963; travelers from Spain on 23 November 1963. Also, report that high figures of CASTRO regime were very nervous on the day of Kennedy's death. This information came from AMCOVE-11 who obtained it from a doctor friend, who obtained it from a Navy Comandante who was not a sympathizer of the regime.

AMCOVE-1 SW Message #68 dated 6 December 1963

AMCOVE-11 (Dr. Pedro Antonio RODRIGUEZ Inigo) reported "rumors in Cuba that Lee OSWALD, assassin of Kennedy, was photographed in Varadero and Pinar del Rio, and that his (sic) sister, employed at Cuban Embassy Mexico, was a prisoner in Dallas, Texas, with personal documentation of OSWALD and $65,000 dollars. Swiss Ambassador Havana told employees that Lee OSWALD was an associate of Fidel CASTRO."

AMCROAK Operation 19-6-97

MADR 9866 (IN 74333) dated 5 December 1963

AMCROAK-1 (Dr. Bernardo MILANES Lopez) discussed an operational plan with AMOT-2 (Joaquin SANJENIS Perdomo)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SEONLITSENSITIVE

- 20 -

which consisted of elimination of high GOC personalities.

MILANES had not mentioned the plan to the case officer.

(MILANES was recruited by CIA in Madrid in December 1963. At the time of recruitment he was involved with a group planning to kill CASTRO, a completely extra- CIA affiliation.)

MADR 9928 (IN 78595 dated 11 December 1963

The above plan mentioned by MILANES concerned the physical elimination of Fidel CASTRO, Raul CASTRO, and "Che" GUEVARA. MILANES said that seven persons were involved in the plan and that they had studied it for eight months. The case officer told MILANES that the USG did not look with approval on such activities, but he would pass the information on / to his supervisors/

DIRECTOR 88949 dated 12 December 1963

In discussions with MILANES he was to be told that a coup against CASTRO resulting in ouster of CASTRO and the Communist regime was an internal affair for which only Cubans could be responsible. That in the event of a real coup against the CASTRO regime, the U.S. Government was prepared to render full support, upon invitation.

UFGA 13793 dated 27 January 1964

When discussing the plan with MILANES, the case officer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

- 21 -

learned that Mario SALABARRIA Aguiar was one of
the principal planners. When the case officer told
MILANES that the US Government did not condone such
actions, MILANES replied that in view of our lack of
support of this undertaking, he considered it not
prudent to reveal further details, but added that he
actually did not know the names of any other possible
participants and had only a general idea of the scheme
which was to waylay CASTRO as he was leaving an apartment.

UFGA 13794 dated 28 January 1964 (JMWAVE to Hqs.)

In January 1963 Fidel CASTRO asked MILANES what he
thought of President Kennedy and his relationship
with Fidel. MILANES replied that Fidel probably
underestimated Kennedy, that the latter by no means was
illiterate or the imbecile Fidel often described him
to be, and in the long run Kennedy would be Fidel's
undoing. Fidel laughingly replied that he would be
the one who ruined Kennedy because within eight months
Fidel would have Latin America burning. Fidel made an
obscene motion and said he would have Kennedy "in the
air."

/COMMENT: Mario SALABARRIA, who worked closely with
MILANES, reportedly drew up the assassination plans


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

- 22 -

and allegedly obtained money and weapons from the U.S.
MILANES and SALABARRIA were arrested in mid-1965.
SALABARRIA was sentenced to 30 years imprisonment. As
of May 71 his name appeared on a list of prisoners
of Guanajay Prison, Pinar del Rio, Cuba. MILANES,
according to one of his sub-sources, served only a
few years of his sentence because of collaboration with
the Cuban Government. As of 1973 MILANES reportedly
was living in Miami, Florida and had been singled out
for elimination by members of the Cuban exile community
in Miami.[^7]

CUBANA Airline Manifests (non-CS) No File

The Cubana Airline Manifest for 27 November 1963,
showing air travel from Mexico City to Havana, lists
one Gilberto LOPEZ PP #310162. /See separate file
on Gilberto POLICARPO Lopez, both the 201-741600, and
the file set up *by* LAD/JFK Task Force./

Cuban Army of Liberation 19-9-17

DBA 80042 (FBI) dated 14 July 1964

Concerns an interview of Julio LOBO in July 1964.

[^7]:  ![illegible text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

- 23 -

LOBO claimed he was contacted by Teofilo BABUN and asked
to contribute $100,000.00 toward a plot to assassinate
Fidel CASTRO and other Cuban leaders. The assassins
were described as three or four "Chicago-type Cosa
Nostra" individuals who would be going to Havana, Cuba
on other legitimate business.

CUBAN Developmental Operations 19-120-40

UFGA 4176 dated 31 May 1962

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Headquarters Task
Force W, concerning the debriefing of Dr. Jaime CARBONELL
Rivero, former nightclub operator in Havana, about two
proposals by him to assassinate Fidel CASTRO. Both plans
were considered amateurish and not acceptable by CIA
officers in Miami.

CUBAN Foreign Relations 19-9-2

DBF 47612 (FBI) dated 27 April 1960

This document deals with Luis CONTE Aguero, a former
JMWAVE Station asset, and controversial personality.
CONTE, in the U.S. as of April 1960, among other things


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

associated himself with the White Rose Organization through his nephew Carlos RIVERO Collada. /COMMENT:
RIVERO was one of the ransomed returnees from the Bay of Pigs, December 1962. In 1978 he defected to Cuba, saying he had been a CASTRO agent and penetration of exile organizations in the U.S. all the while.7
/COMMENT: CONTE in 1960 was attempting to be placed in charge of anti-Cuban programs of the "Voice of the Americas." Hqs. has speculated that CONTE Aguero might be iden/with Bernardo MORALES, recipient of a letter dated 29 November 1962 from a Jose MENENDEZ in Cuba concerning a plot to assassinate President Kennedy. See LAD/JFK Task Force folder on CONTE7.
The FBI informant learned that a person by the name of Roberto had requested biographical and personal information from the Cuban Foreign Ministry on a fnu BEATON and CONTE Aguero for writing of articles concerning these persons, for the "Fact Sheet." Roberto may be iden/w Robert TABER listed in a 6 April 1960 New York Times article as a member of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. TABER reportedly had made trips to Havana, Cuba from New York City to confer with Fidel CASTRO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CUBAN GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO 50-9-12

((Mexico City Station Teltap Operation Against

Cuban Embassy - LIENVOY) (Job #64-518/84)

FOLDER #20 (Covers Teltap Traffic 20 Aug - 2 Sept 63)

30 Aug 63 - Incoming call to Embassy. OSVALDO with JORRIN. OSVALDO says he is one of the scholarship holders and wants to speak with AZCUE.

FOLDER # 22 (Covers 24 Sept - 3 Oct. 63)

ΗΜΜΑ 22252 dated 4 October 1963

24 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy at 1707 hours from Prensa Latina reporter to Fernandez ROA. Asks if Embassy has any statement about the supposed attempt against CASTRO. ROA says they have no declaration; it's the work of the sick mind of the pseudo-Cubans in Miami. (Item #18).

24 Sept 63 - Call from Embassy at 2007 hours from Raul to OSVALDO, saying Saturday they are having a party. (Item #290).

24 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy at 1835 hours. Luis PRIETO calling in to Luisa asks her if what they are saying about Fidel is true; he has been so alarmed that he has called everyone. Luisa says if they kill Fidel or do something it's worse yet because what remains is terrible. (Item #574).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

- 26 -

24 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy at 1258 hours. Woman
calling in asks LLAGOSTERA (Cuban Embassy gardner) if
he knows about the attempt against CASTRO. LLAGOSTERA
says he knows nothing. She asks if the news comes from
Miami. He says yes. (Item #272).

25 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy at 1731 hours. OSVALDO
calling in asks to speak with AZCUA, so that he will get
the medicine for them and LLAGOSTERA. After informing
OSVALDO that he isn't there, suggests that he call the
Condesa Pharmacy, ask for the medicine and pass the
bill to the Embassy. OSVALDO accepts. (Item #343).

25 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy at 1754 hours. Woman from
the Condesa Pharmacy says that they made a request for
Sr. Osvaldo HERNANDEZ of Chiapas 148, but as it concerns
about $300 (pesos) she wants to know if she should
supply it. LLAGOSTERA says he will let Srita. MECHE
know if she should dispatch it. MECHE accepts. (Item #404).

25 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy from male university student
to man in Embassy, to tell him that a few minutes ago
they heard news that Fidel had died and they wanted to
know if it were true. He says it is news from Miami
going around a few days ago; that yesterday's newspaper
from Havana says Dr. Fidel CASTRO is enjoying perfect
health. (Item #954).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

- 27 -

26 Sept 63 - Call from Embassy at 1721 hours. Raul in Embassy talks with Osvaldo. Osvaldo talks to him about the exams he's having all this week and next. Osvaldo asks if they are collecting tomorrow, Saturday's the party. That about the dirty thing will be left until next week.(Item 714

27 Sept 63 - Call to Embassy at 1054 hours. Silvia talks with Guillermo RUIZ (DGI). RUIZ still has not been able to speak with the Consul and that's why he hasn't called her. Silvia asks him to give her the Consul's number because there isn't any time for that. RUIZ says don't get angry; and asks if she wants to speak directly with him. Silvia says yes. RUIZ says it's 11-28-47. She says fine. (Item #191).

2 Oct 63 - Call from Embassy at 1206 hours. Teresa talks with Sra. Neus and says the Ambassador wants the History of the CIA, all the latest books, a copy of each one. Neus says they will be sent. (Item #452).

/COMMENT: The name "Osvaldo" is mentioned in several conversations. In one he gave his name as Osvaldo HERNANDEZ and resided at the same place as the Cuban Ambassador, whose last name is also HERNANDEZ. It is speculated that they might be related. Traced Osvaldo HERNANDEZ, but could not positively identify him for lack of more data.7 /COMMENT: Above is the only call made by or to Silvia (DURAN) on the 27th of September


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

- 28 -

the day on which Lee Harvey OSWALD reportedly came
to the Cuban Embassy, according to Washington Post
article dated 26 Nov 76.

FOLDER #25 (Covering teltap from 15 Nov - 30 Nov 63)

22 November 1963

ITEM 038 Page 1

1648 hours - Long Distance call from Vera Cruz.

Caller (SAMA) (Ovilio SAMA, Cuban Vice Consul in Vera Cruz).

Receiver Ambassador HERNANDEZ Armas.

HERNANDEZ: Tells SAMA that tomorrow's meeting will have
to be postponed until another Saturday at the
same time because he has another invitation and
possibly will have to leave.

SAMA : Accepts and asks if there is any instructions
regarding the recent incident.

HERNANDEZ: Says no, all is perfectly well.

SAMA : Says yes, there is some instruction concerning
Kennedy's death.

HERNANDEZ: Says no, that the thing is very lamentable, but
"we are here as always."

SAMA : Says that the Dean of the Diplomatic Corps will
call at eight in the evening to go give their
condolences, but they will not go.

HERNANDEZ: Gives him the reason, and asks that he explain


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

- 29 -

to the Dean that they cannot go because of the
lack of diplomatic relations between the two
countries.

ITEM 084 Page 2

Hour not specified - Call to the Embassy.

Caller (Guillermo OCHOA de Novedades), spoke with
Receiver (PEREGRINA) inside the Embassy.

OCHOA : Called to say that that afternoon he went to
the Embassy to see if there was an article for
the newspaper regarding Kennedy's death.

PEREGRINA: Told OCHOA that the Ambassador had been invited
to a dinner and that OCHOA should call back at
5 o'clock in the evening at which time she will
tell him something about the matter. PEREGRINA
tells OCHOA to wait a minute, then says that the
Ambassador has not arrived yet and up to now has
not said anything. She tells OCHOA he can call
back later if he wishes.

OCHOA : Said that he would call that night.

ITEM 101 Page 2

1730 hours - Call to Embassy.

Caller (Unidentified man) calls LUISA (inside Embassy)

Caller : Asks if she knows the latest news.

LUISA : Jokingly said "yes, of course, I knew about it
almost before Kennedy ."

Caller : Laughs and comments that that is very bad.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET SENSIVE

30

In principle they thought it was one of those reactionary extremists who was against the integration and all ... but it seems that they apprehended a man who is nothing more than the president of one of those Fair Play for Cuba Committees.

LUISA : Says she also knows that.

CALLER : As of yet nothing is confirmed but it appears that whoever did it was crazy, independently (so deranged) that he could have blamed that to Kennedy... say the international conditions and internal conditions in the United States... because...

LUISA : And more external principally.

CALLER : That's why I say international... one can see a sufficient effect and not suffer a big change, with a change of President or with a thing of this type ... above all...

LUISA : Was it a gringo (American) that killed him?

CALLER : Yes, but he said he had been in Russia, that he wanted to become a Russian citizen, but Russia didn't want to give him the citizenship.

LUISA : Surprised...said listen, how do they know those things over there?

CALLER : He knows Russian well, and moreover this fellow went with Fidel's forces into the mountains,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

- 31 -
  or wanted to go, something like that. Who
  knows how the thing was?

LUISA : Serious.

CALLER : Asks how much more they know over there?

LUISA : Almost precisely that. They heard about it sometime ago and now they are ...

CALLER : That is very bad. He was eating with some friends and commenting on the magazine Politica which had just come out, when one arrived and gave them the news. That really surprised him and he thought they were being kidded.

LUISA : She was looking at the magazine but her friend must have accidentally taken it away.

CALLER : Said his friend commented that a Mexican had killed him (Kennedy) because he (the Mexican) realized that the United States had taken Texas from them and he killed the President for vengeance; that it was all a joke but they didn't believe him until he said that they should turn on the radio; that's when they heard about it. The last thing he heard, a little while ago, is that the fellow is someone named OSWALD. They believe he is the one but he hasn't confessed anything.

LUISA : But they already know that he speaks Russian and belongs to a pro-Cuba committee. They


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

- 32 -

know that he wanted to be naturalized, but the man hasn't confessed.

CALLER : Says the reason may be they are trying to find out something about the man, because...

LUISA : Says wait a minute, can you tell me?

CALLER : We thought that if it had been, or appeared to the public to be one of the segregationist or those opposed to integration that had assassinated Kennedy, that there might be a civil struggle, or a Civil War in the United States. Considering the critical situation the country is going through, they will find a resolution to that man, no? Already it is more international. Are they going to find out for certain, who knows? Let's see what happens.

LUISA : Laughs and asks what will happen.

CALLER : Who knows?

LUISA : Figuratively, one, two, three, and already there are three. (She laughs). What barbarians!

CALLER : That will probably be the topic of conversation at Silvia's party today.

LUISA : It was cancelled because they couldn't go.

CALLER : Asks why.

LUISA : "So they can later say that we were celebrating Kennedy's death" (sic). /COMMENT: appears that transcriber left out negative -*can not say*.

Silvia agreed to change the party to next week,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

- 33 -

but not to coincide with the funeral (laugh).

CALLER : One must take that into consideration.

LUISA : What will be after the sorrow, the mourning, and all that junk.

CALLER : Asks where she is going to stay now.

LUISA : Says that she plans to move to the doctor's house tonight.

CALLER : Asks if all is known there.

LUISA : Says yes, but she doesn't know how everything is or if they have to stay at the Embassy; however, she believes that it will not be possible today, because everyone left for the airport and there isn't a car at the Embassy. Possibly tomorrow morning, instead of going to the study group, she will move.

CALLER : Said he would talk to her tomorrow.

LUISA : Said that he should inquire at the Embassy or at the house. It she doesn't stay at the Embassy, she will go to her house, where she will be by 10.

CALLER : Concurs.

ITEM 118 Page 2

1721 hours - Call to the Embassy.

CALLER (identity unknown) wants to talk with FERNANDEZ Roa.

RECEIVER (PEREGRINA) says he is outside of Mexico and there is no one there from the news department.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

- 34 -

CALLER : Says he is from the revolutionary newspaper
and would like the opinion of Dr. Roa regarding
the assassination of Kennedy.

PEREGRINA : Repeats that Roa is in Havana, and with
regards to Kennedy, they can't say anything
because they know nothing about it and the
Ambassador isn't around at the moment.

ITEM 159 Page 3

1744 hours - Call to the Embassy.

CALLER (Norma) tells Bertica (in the Embassy) that at this
moment the following news story is appearing
on the teletype: "Interrogation of young
OSWALD who assassinated President Kennedy, says
that he was in the Soviet Union, married a
Soviet woman, wanted Soviet citizenship but
wasn't granted it. He is president of a pro-
Cuban committee called PERPLEX (Fair Play)
for Cuba. The note says that these committees,
pro-Cuban, are committees that fight ... without
sympathizers of Fidel CASTRO and make
propaganda for the Cuban Government."

ITEM 205 Page 3

Hour unknown - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (female) Asks LLAGOSTERA (Cuban Embassy gardner)
if he has the radio turned on.

LLAGOSTERA: Says yes.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

- 35 -

CALLER : Asks if LLAGOSTERA heard the news that an
attempt was made on life of Kennedy.

LLAGOSTERA: Says no. He changed the conversation and said
that his wife and son, Pepito, were arriving
the coming month.

CALLER : Said that is good and asked LLAGOSTERA
to turn on the radio at 1,000 because that's
where the news was given.

LLAGOSTERA: Agrees.

ITEM 236 Page 3

1319 hours - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (COTY) Asks LLAGOSTERA if he is listening to the
the radio.

LLAGOSTERA: Says yes.

COTY : Asks if it is true that Kennedy has been killed.

LLAGOSTERA: Says no, but that an attempt was made against
his life.

COTY : Says there is no radio where he is and he
doesn't know what is going on. They say that
he was shot three times and died. At that
moment it was being given in a bulletin and that
LLAGOSTERA should turn on the radio to hear the
news.

LLAGOSTERA: Says he will.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

- 36 -

ITEM 275 Page 4

Hour not given - Call to the Embassy.

CALLER (Female) Asks ROGELIO to come to see her right away because she has something very important to tell him.

ROGELIO : Asks if it is to tell him that Kennedy was killed.

CALLER : Says yes.

ROGELIO : Says he already knows it.

ITEM 294 Page 4

1340 hours - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (Alejandro) Advised LLAGOSTERA that he will be in the Foreign Relations office in case the man calls.

LLAGOSTERA : Says that's fine.

Alejandro : Said "you know that your patron died, no?"

LLAGOSTERA: : Yes, very well.

Alejandro : That there was an attempt against Kennedy's life, and it seems that he died.

LLAGOSTERA : Said he did not know that. That he will call back later.

ITEM 302 Page 4

1350 hours - Call from Embassy to Tele # 35-54-12.

Jorge ROJAS : Asks his wife, Cachita, if she knew about the news.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

- 37 -

Cachita : Said yes, that they were just giving it on the radio.

ROJAS : Said what a dreadful thing.

Cachita : Replied what imbeciles, what do they gain with terrorism.

ROJAS : Who knows what will happen now.

Cachita : Changed the subject and told her that "the airplane arrives after four" and that he is going over there right now.

Cachita : Said she will wait for him.

ITEM 317 Pages 4 & 5

1400 hours - Call to Embassy

CALLER (COTY) Asks LLAGOSTERA if it's confirmed.

LLAGOSTERA : Said yes, that's correct, may his soul rest in peace.

COTY : Asks if the plane arrived.

LLAGOSTERA : Said the plane will arrive at 4:15.

COTY : Said it was strange that LANDRIAN or MENA had not called him, because he had some things of theirs.

LLAGOSTERA : Said that's correct.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

ITEM 339 Page 5

1402 hours - Call to Embassy

CALLER (PENA) Asks for ROGELIO.

LLAGOSTERA : Said he wasn't in.

PENA : Said he called to tell him the news.

LLAGOSTERA : Said they already know it.

PENA : Said then he is happy.

LLAGOSTERA : Said no, the only thing they desired, was to make him a ..... of flowers.

PENA : Laughed and agreed.

ITEM 347 Page 5

1405 hours - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (CONCEPCION's wife) Tells LLAGOSTERA that when her husband, (Oscar CONCEPCION) arrives, tell him that he left some candies "here".

/The CUIS had a commo drop in Mexico City referred to as Candy./

LLAGOSTERA : Said he will, but if Oscar arrived at home first, to tell him that the airplane arrives at 4:15.

CONCEPCION's wife : Agreed and said that the problem is that she bought some candies to send to VEGA but her husband forgot them.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

- 39 -

LLAGOSTERA : Said, today a good man died.

CONCEPCION's: Asks who.
Wife

LLAGOSTERA : Responded, Kennedy.

CONCEPCION's: Laughs.
Wife

LLAGOSTERA: Said, poor man, may God have him in glory.

CONCEPCION's: Laughs again.
Wife

ITEM 522 Page 8

1330 hours - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (Female, unidentified) Asks if LUISA knows about the news of Kennedy's death.

LUISA : Surprised, says it is a lie and asks who.

CALLER : Said in an attempt in Texas.

LUISA : Again surprised, LUISA questions if the news is official and asked when it occurred.

CALLER : It happened at 1300 hours.

LUISA : Becomes joyful and says "how great!"

CALLER : Langhs and indicates that his (Kennedy's) brother and wife were also injured.

LUISA : Laughs and says again, "how great, nevertheless, I don't believe it."

CALLER : Says turn on the radio.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

LUISA : Asks for her husband whom she hasn't seen.

CALLER : Said "he was here, but he left."

LUISA : Said she has been waiting for him for a while because she has to give him a list of people to review (or revise).

CALLER : Told LLAGOSTERA that he should turn on the radio.

LUISA : Again rejoices and says how great it is.

CALLER : Became serious and asked if LUISA knows the consequences.

LUISA : Says "good."

CALLER : Said she felt sorry because he was a man and the father of a family.

LUISA : Said she felt sorry because he was a father, but he was "a degenerate, unfortunate, an aggressor."

CALLER : Apart from his politics with Cuba, she didn't believe anything had been resolved; "one must now wait to see what will happen."

LUISA : After asking her to wait, asked what more was said.

CALLER : Said they have now been given the news; he has died, was shot three times in the face.

LUISA : Said perfect. Now I'm going to come down.

CALLER : Replied, good.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

ITEM 571 Page 9

1344 hours - Call to Embassy.

NICO (Called in) Asked if any calls had come for him.

LUISA : Until now, nothing.

NICO : Asked if VACILIO had called.

LUISA : Said, no, only SOLORAZANO called saying
it was not possible for him to send the note
because of a problem. For major reasons it
was not possible that day; maybe not until
Monday. If he wishes to speak with him, he
will be at 21-35-70 until one in the afternoon.

NICO : Correct.

LUISA : Said that NELA just called to give her the
news of Kennedy's death and the wounding of
his brother; that it happened in Texas. Asked
what NICO thought about it.

NICO : "can you imagine!"

LUISA : Laughs and adds that that is all for now;
that the list is almost ready, she is finish-
ing the last page.

NICO : Says okay. Asks what time the airplane will
arrive.

LUISA : Says. at 4 and that at 4:30 they must be at the
airport.

NICO : Says okay.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 42 -

ITEM 594 Page 9

Hour not given - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (YOYA) Asks LUISA if she has already heard the news.

LUISA : Says yes.

YOYA : Asks what she thinks of it.

LUISA : "Well, I don't know. I still don't know what opinion to have about it."

YOYA : "What brutes. A good shot. Direct. Listen, now they are going to say that it was from here; that it was some Cuban."

LUISA : "That is possible, then if they don't say it, they will die."

YOYA : "That is certain."

LUISA : Changed the conversation and asked how her mother is.

YOYA : Said she is better; that when she arrived at the house, she received the news and it caught her by surprise.

LUISA : That even he was caught by surprise.

YOYA :"Yes, well if he was alerted, they would have done nothing; what brutes! What is going to happen today, is that it was some Cuban."

LUISA :That it will be a problem for world politics. It is a large problem; enormous."

YOYA :"It is going to be that."

LUISA : "Now no way, it already happened, and it happened in Dallas, Texas."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRLI/SENSITIVE

- 43 -

FOLDER #25

25 NOVEMBER 1963

ITEM #93 Page 1

0946 hours - Call to Embassy.

CALLER : Asks for ROA.

RECEIVER : (JORRIN) Replied that he wasn't in.

CALLER : Identified self as John RETTY, BBC

Correspondent from London. Asked receiver

if he had read the report in that day's

EXCELSIOR (Mexico City newspaper), about

the presence in Mexico in September of the

presumed assassin of Kennedy.

JORRIN : Said he hadn't read anything.

RETTY : Said that OSWALD was here in Mexico and went

to the Cuban Embassy asking for a visa to go

to the Soviet Union; and that he also

was in the Soviet Embassy. RETTY asked if

JORRIN could confirm the story.

JORRIN : Said RETTY would have to call the Consulate

later on 11 28 47 -- 55.

FOLDER #25

27 NOVEMBER 1963

ITEM #26 Page 1

1026 hours - Call to Embassy.

CALLER (Male) From Ultimas Noticias says that they have had


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

- 44 -

a cable from Havana stating that an employee
of the Foreign Relations Office of the
embassy had been badly treated with regard
to finding out about OSWALD's passport; OSWALD,
Kennedy's assassin. That they would like to
confirm if it is true.

CHELO : Ignores him, since they had not received the
cable directly from Havana.

CALLER : Said Cuba had protested against Mexico for
that action.

CHELO : Said, wait a moment. The embassy has no news
concerning that particular --

CALLER : Tells PEREGRINA that the cable is from Miami.
A radio transmission from Havana was picked
up. Minister Raul ROA announced that he had
delivered a protest to Ambassador Gilberto
BOSQUES of Mexico against the Mexican
authorities who had arrested Silvia DURAN, an
employee of the Cuban Embassy, supposedly
concerning OSWALD's passport.

PEREGRINA : Said they had no news with regard to that.

CALLER : Asked if the arrest took place.

PEREGRINA : Said no, they have no news of that.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

- 45 -

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICES 19-5-1

OOA 3/215,189 dated 27 March 1962

Concerns Fidel CASTRO's intelligence service that operated out of the 13th floor of the INRA Bldg., in Havana. Appears that its mission was to infiltrate counter-revolutionary groups operating in Cuba and the U.S. Juan ORTA was head of it before he defected to the U.S.

OOA 3/215,192 dated 27 March 1962

Concerns agents of Fidel CASTRO's intelligence service. Luis TACORNAL made several trips to the U.S. on missions for Fidel. TACORNAL told Juan ORTA he was recruited by Rolando MASFERRER to form resistance unit in Havana. ORTA told TACORNAL to carry out mission to see how many counterrevolutionaries he could get to join the resistance unit.

DBA 67028 (FBI) dated 24 March 1964

Concerns interview of Harry DEAN in California on 10 December 1963. DEAN said he was connected with July 26th Movement as early as 1958; visited Havana and saw Juan ORTA personally in June 1960; and on return to Chicago joined the FPCC (Fair Play for Cuba Committee) at the instigation of Cuban Consul in Chicago. DEAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

- 46 -

met in Cuba man by the name of Frank VEGA who spoke
perfect English, and is believed to have identified
himself as G-2; was disturbed that DEAN saw ORTA
before seeing him (VEGA).

CUBAN INTELLIGENCE SERVICES General 19-5-1

CSCI 3/764,016 dated 20 February 1961

Jose PAZ Novas, an exile formerly with the G-2, reported
that Juan ORTA worked for the Premier's group; a group
of intelligence operators who worked directly under
Fidel CASTRO with offices on the 18th floor of the INRA
Building.

CUBAN REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL (CRC) 19-124-25

UFGA 3926 dated 1 May 1962

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Headquarters. Noted
that the Station had major concern with regard to the
extent and scope of non-CIA support, in the clandestine
field, to the Cuban exiles and to the Cuban underground.

WAVE 6617 (IN 98730) dated 1 April 1963

Cable from WAVE to Headquarters, states widespread
anti-Kennedy, anti-U.S. reaction to U.S. State Dept.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

- 47 -

ban on travel of Cuban exiles outside Dade County, Fla.

DGI (GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE) Organization,
Functions, Policies, Standards (Soft File)

CSCI 3/777,001 dated 10 July 1963.

Bureau "N" in the National Section of the G-2 was
charged with controlling six targets including hotels,
casinos and former gambling groups.

DGI - Targets and Assignments (Soft File)

Cross-reference form, 3 September 1963 (FBI doc?)

Subject of document - Alwin Artilano ODIO TAMAYO y Suarez.

"Target of greatest importance was to penetrate Cuban
Army of Liberation to determine date of any possible
invasion of Cuba. Leaders were to be identified to be
assassinated later."

DGI - Guerrilla and Miscellaneous Training of Foreigners

Soft File

TDCSDB 3/657,936 dated 18 Nov 1963

Source AMTURVY-1 (Arturo Maria de Jesus VERONA Alonso),
from sub-source, a militiaman: As of 17 November 1963
rumors were circulating that Fidel CASTRO may have left
Cuba for China or the Soviet Union.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

- 48 -

DSE - DEPARTMENT OF STATE SECURITY A-13 - General

Non-Official file - No file no. - Soft File

TDCSDB 3/656,765 dated 20 September 1963

A Bogota [liaison]source reported that Manuel PINEIRO
said that the Cubans were aware of two CIA agents among
delegation of U.S. students; also, that the CIS was
aware of an assassination plot against Fidel CASTRO by
a group in the GOC being directed by CIA.

DSE - Soft File

CSCI 3/779,828 dated 4 February 1964

Report on Mario GUTIERREZ, nicknamed "Mayito", a Cuban,
who in February 1964 was residing in the U.S. In 1959
he was working in hotels and night clubs and acting as
a penetration agent for the Cuban Intelligence Service.
GUTIERREZ and Manola ALVAREZ worked for the Chief
of "N" Bureau of the National Section of the G-2 Secret
Aparat in Havana.

AMDOSE Project 19-6-77/2-4

OSMA 14727 Att. A. dated 2 January 1962

SW message from agent, AMDOSE-1, dated 7 December 1962,
includes the statement "the majority of us hope that
Kennedy finishes with Fidel before Christmas." /Seems to be


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

- 49 -

more a statement of mood or feeling rather than fact.7

AMEMBER Operation 19-6-116/2,3,4

Memorandum to the DCI from the DDP dated 10 June 1964

Concerns plans of Cuban exiles to assassinate selected
Cuban Government leaders. Persons, who were parties to
this action, advised Agency officers of plans to
assassinate certain Cuban leaders. Further advised there
was tie-in with elements of Cosa Nostra with on-island
contacts who could do the job. Agency officers made
clear that the U.S. Government would not condone such
action.

AMFAUNA Project 19-6-50/3

UFGA 10,085 dated 24 July 1963

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Headquarters, advised
that AMFAUNA-1 reported that a friend of AMFAUNA-7
was planning to assassinate Fidel CASTRO before the 26th
of July and wanted financial support.

SW Message from AMFAUNA-1 received 30 July 1963

(Mge #134 dated 15 July 1963)

AMFAUNA-7 reportedly asked AMFAUNA-1 to inform the
latter's friend abroad (CIA) about A-7's plans to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

- 50 -

assassinate CASTRO and to request financial support. A-1
said he was one of the five persons who knew the identity
of the person who was organizing it, but could not reveal
it, even to CIA, because those Cubans believed that
U.S. policy toward Cuba had been so wrong that the U.S.
Government agencies must have been penetrated by traitors
to democracy. A-1 said he did not believe in assassination
but felt it was his duty to report it. A-1 said the
conspirators didn't know him (A-1) at all, that they knew
only A-7, but they did know that the above information
reached CIA.

WAVE 2086 (IN 91617) dated 2 August 1963

On 23 July 1963 an unidentified individual said he was
raising money for the purchase of more dynamite to use in the
assassination of Fidel CASTRO. He said that he was one of
six men planning to kill Fidel. RENGO (fnu), formerly
an official of the CASTRO Government, was leader of the
group. They planned to trigger an explosion in a sand truck
when Fidel went by. If not killed by the explosion, Fidel was
to have been shot by five of the group who would close
in on him.

WAVE 2316 (IN 95289) dated 8 August 1963

SW Message #143 dated 1 August 1963

Reported information from a Bernardo ALVAREZ Mon, that
an attempt on CASTRO's life had been prepared for 26 July


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

## SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 51 -

banquet at the Presidential Palace. A large caliber
machine gun on a tripod had been discovered behind a
curtain. AMFAUNA-1 said that this had nothing to do
with AMFAUNA-7's plan which was still pending.

UFGA 13428 dated 15 January 1964

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Headquarters, reported
information from HULAKE-1 on 8 Jan 64 indicating that
there had been a general roundup in Cienfuegos, which
began on 26 Dec 63, possibly in connection with a
suspected plot against the life of Fidel CASTRO. At
least 17 persons were arrested. One person appeared to
be AMLAME-5 (Luis PUIG Tabares 201-329604). Neither
AMFAUNA-26 nor AMLAME-5 were believed to be involved
in any plot against the life of Fidel, but could have been
high on the general suspect list.

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO 19-9-11/1

(Democratic Revolutionary Front)

UFGA 1933 dated 24 July 1961

Dispatch from JMWAVE to Headquarters, transmitting an
operational plan presented to WAVE Base by Raul F.
HERRERO Morales, Member of the Executive Board, Frente
Revolucionario Jose A. ECHEVARRIA. HERRERO was told
by a WAVE Base contact that the Agency could not help
him. The plan called for the physical elimination of
Fidel CASTRO, several members of the Cuban Communist


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

Party, the Soviet Ambassador in Cuba, a few members
of the Minister's Council and some other 2,000 persons
connected with the Communist Party or Cuban Government.

FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO (FRD) 19-9-11 (General)
(Revolutionary Democratic Front)

DBF 71256 (FBI) dated 15 January 1962

On 19 January 1961 Thomas Frank MIKA and Thomas Lawrence
KANE told the Chicago FBI office the following: KANE said
he was recruited into the CASTRO movement in Miami in May
59, went to Cuba, became disillusioned and returned to
the U.S. in December 1959. He visited the FRD office in
Chicago, and was advised of a plan to assassinate the
principal members of the CASTRO regime; Fidel CASTRO,
Raul CASTRO, and "Che" GUEVARA. Allegedly members of the
FRD sounded out KANE for participating in such an attempt.
If the mission could be successfully executed, the
members participating would be paid $500,000.00.

AMHIM Project 19-126-41/3,4

UFGA 15383 dated 8 May 1964

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Headquarters. AMHIM-2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

- 53 -

learned during a visit to San Juan, Puerto Rico
in late March 1964 that Manuel RAY Rivero, leader of
JURE (Cuban Revolutionary Junta), planned to infiltrate
Cuba. Included in RAY's plans was a plot to kill Fidel
CASTRO.

JUNTA REVOLUCIONARIA CUBANA (JURE)
(Cuban Revolutionary Junta)

SJAN 0884 (IN 44753) dated 4 January 1963

Manuel RAY Rivero, head of JURE, told SKDIKE-1
(San Jose Station source) that JURE was then concentrating
on infiltrating Cuban militia through which he hoped
ultimately to effect the assassination of the Cuban
hierarchy.

WAVE 7824 (IN 05509) dated 13 June 1964

Manuel RAY Rivero on 11 June 1964 denied to AMCARBON-1
(JMWAVE Station contact) that he and JURE were receiving
CIA help. He indicated, however, that he was getting
non-specific help from Tad SZULC of the New York Times,
Karl MEYER of the Washington Post, and Sam HALPER of
Time.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

OLIVE

- 54 -

The ZRKNICK section, because of its classification - TOP SECRET UMBRA - is included as an annex. According to Mr. King, Richard King, the Comint Control Officer for the Office of Sigint Ops, the material should retain that classification.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

- 55 -

AMLACE Operation 19-6-62/2,3,4

Memorandum to Chief, TFW/FI from F.W. Flott dated 1 October 1962

AMLACE-1 was asked about succession in the event of CASTRO's death. He responded in October 1962 that in the event of CASTRO's death, even the gusanos (worms) say it would be useless to kill Fidel. No one thinks that his death would be useful to the counter-revolution.

AMLEG Operation 19-6-80/2,3,4

DIRECTOR 33866 dated 19 April 1963

Cable from Headquarters to the Hague, stating that approval has been granted for sabotage of Cuban ships ranging from delaying ship to putting ship out of commission.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

- 56 -

DIRECTOR 34099 Dated 20 April 1963

Cable from Hqs. to the Hamb and Fran, stating sabotage program against Cuban shipping of sufficiently high priority to require utilization any appropriate asset.

HAGU 3698 (IN 22804) Dated 22 April 1963

Proposed that AMLEG-29 place a four hour delay explosive "CLAM" to one of 34 drums of "TETRAHYDROFURAN" which to be loaded on the deck of the HAVANA.

DIRECTOR 35006 Dated 24 April 1963

Cable from Hqs. to HAGU, BRUS, HAMB, FRAN, CASB, RABA stating U.S. Govt policy calls for all feasible forms pressure on CASTRO Regime to inhibit its success and culminate in disorder leading to its downfall. Realize motivation of assets will be major key to success ops, and that difficulties will be encountered due their interpretation USG policy, Burden of positive motivation thus rests on case officers involved who must decide each case on own merits and use considerable judgement to induce cooperation.

DIRECTOR 41673 Dated 21 May 1963

Sabotage operation failed for reasons yet unclear. Prohibition on use explosives or incendiary devices has been removed. All addressees now urged consider utilization full range sabotage and harrassment techniques against Cuban


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

- 57 -

ships and cargoes. Now appears AMLEG agents generally
unsuited for violent sabotage.

DIRECTOR 39186 Dated 11 May 1963
Restriction on sabotage applies only to explosive
and incendiary type actions such as limpets and shape
charges. Wish to explore possibility of non-violent
methods of sabotaging Cuban ships. Wish to minimize
USG sponsorship of sabotage acts whenever possible.
This program is to be held on stict need to know basis.
Therefore, no briefing of State personnel without prior
Hqs. approval. Request for approval in most cases will
be denied. Rationale for revision is that State fully
represented in approval this program and may brief their
Chiefs of Mission thru own channels if they wish.
/RESEARCHER COMMENT: In view of large number of persons
briefed on the program in a short period of time, it
appears likely that the Gov't of Cuba could have possibly
learned of the program by June 1963, some four months
before the assassination of President Kennedy. The State
Dept. approved the operation and Ambassadors were to be
informed on a strictly "need to know basis." There was
a minor flap when it was learned that Amb. McArthur
(Belgium) was informed of the program.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

- 58 -

AMLEO Operation 19-6-75/2,3,4

UFGA 15995 Dated 2 June 1964

In February 1963 AMLEO-3 (Capt. Jose Ricardo RABEL Nunez) Cuban defector, in debriefing claimed that he had high-level anti-Communist contacts in the GOC (whom he refused to name) who would listen to Rebel Army exiles but would take no positive action with them unless they demonstrated their power by eliminating Fidel or carrying out other strong action that would prove they had strong outside backing. RABEL said that the death of Fidel would be the best way to change the Government of Cuba. [^1] COMMENT: RABEL was used in relation to the AMTRUNK Operation. He returned to Cuba on his own in 1965. RESEARCHER COMMENT: Appears possible RABEL may have been CIS provocation agent whose mission was to convince the CIA or some exile group to try to undertake a plot to assassinate Fidel.[^7]

LIAISON with Department of the Army (ACSI) re Cuba 19-2-12
WAVE 1196 (IN 07492) Dated 20 June 1964

A letter from AMSHOT-1 (now SLFREE-1) on-island, dated 8 January 1964, advised that one Francisco BLANCO was arrested on 17 Oct 1963 for involvement in a planned assassination of Fidel CASTRO. BLANCO was employed by the Office of Planificacion (sic) JUCIPLAN. JMWAVE Station

[^1]:

[^7]:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

provided a copy of the letter to local FBI office.

LIAISON WITH OTHER U.S. AGENCIES 19-2-4

DIRECTOR 03964 Dated 8 December 1962

Hqs. CIA Cabled Secret Service, FBI and State Dept. Security, giving text of a letter from Havana, dated 27 November 1962, concerning a plot to assassinate President Kennedy. Letter also stated that Fidel was very anxious to know how plans were progressing. Letter was addressed to a Post Office Box in Miami belonging to the Radio Libertad La Voz Anti-Comunista de America. Since the addressee was unknown to members of Radio Libertad, one of their Maimi reps. passed the letter to a contact of JMWAVE Station. Addressee was Bernardo Adalberto MORALES-Rivero. /COMMENT: See CUBAN Foreign Relations 19-9-2, DBF 47612, 27 Apr 1960.7

DIRECTOR 04013 Dated 8 December 1962

Hqs. CIA provided White House Secret Service, FBI and State Dept Security with traces on Bernardo MORALES, above, who entered the U.S. in May 62 on fraudulent visa.

DBA 28980 (FBI) Dated 12 December 1962

Advised the Agency that the FBI had no information iden/with MORALES-Rivero, intended recipient of the above letter, or Jose MENENDEZ, the sender.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

- 60 -

UFGA 15233 Dated 20 April 1964

JMWAVE Station forwarded to Hqs. Special Affairs Staff, copy of a report on Byron CAMERON which it had sent locally to the FBI. A usually reliable source reported that CAMERON said he was representing an unidentified group of persons who had made contact with two Cuban gangsters who were willing to kill Fidel CASTRO.

DIRECTOR 23308 Dated 22 May 1964

Hqs. CIA sent to State Dept. EYES ONLY to CRIMMINS and BOWDLER, message which Harvey SUMM asked CAS Miami Station to transmit to Office of Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, Dept. of State. During visit to SUMMS office 21 May, Tad SZULC mentioned conversations he had had with Manuel RAY of JURE within past few days. RAY expressed appreciation for help he had received thus far from USG, and said he could use more.

DBA 73544 (FBI) Dated 8 June 1964

Memo from FBI Newark, N.J. office. Reportedly man or men working for H.L. Hunt, Texas millionaire, discussed the possibility of doing away with Cheddi Jagan or CASTRO or both. Was on private basis; not in any way connected with U.S. Government. Reportedly the CIA knew about it though.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

- 61 -

DIRECTOR 61320 Dated 2 November 1964

Cable from Hqs. to WAVE, stating FBI requested declassificatin of pages 1,8,10 and 11 of FBI

Miami Report, 20 December 1963, File # 105-8342,

Subj: Lee Harvey OSWALD, based on WAVE info. dated 7,11,12 December 1963. Material required for use Warren Commission.

AMLILAC Operation 19-132-29/1,3,4

UFGA 13775 dated January 1964

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Hqs. Special Affairs

Staff providing a list of sabotage and caching attempts and the results, conducted during January 1963 through January 1964. There were 7 successes out of 25 attempts; several failures; most were cancelled for one reason or another.

MEMORANDUM Dated 3 June 1964

Lists following sabotage operations (raids) run by CIA from 1 August 1963 to date of memo. Those from Aug to Nov were:

19 Aug 63 - attack on sulphuric acid plant at Santa Lucia, Pinar del Rio Province; considerable fire damage.

30 Sep 63 - sabotage operation to destroy a lumber mill in Baracoa, Oriente. Heavy damage was inflicted.

21 Oct 63 - an underwater demolition team attacked a dredge in La Isabela harbor, Las Villas Province. Vessel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

- 62 -

was sunk.

15 Nov 63 - had information that Cuban defense forces were on the alert and possibily forewarned of upcoming operations.

23 Nov 63 - sabotage operation against sawmill postponed indefinitely.

AMLISP Project 19-6-59/3

SW Message #352 dated 24 January 1964, from AMLISP-1 reported an attempt on life of Fidel CASTRO that failed because one of the conspirators talked. Was to have been carried out at meal in Jagua Castle. Many persons in Cienfuegos allegedly were executed.

SW Message # 44 dated 18 March 1964 to AMLISP-1 Agency requirements were sent to asset for more details on all assassination attempts and plots against CASTRO by civilians or disaffected military.

SW Message #390 dated 14 March 1964 from AMLISP-1 Reported conversation with a Cuban military officer who said "they can prepare it (a coup d'etat) but when its ready the government will pull the string and squash it, because everything was under control." It is unknown whether this information was sent to the FBI or other agencies.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

- 63 -

AMLOAN Operation 19-6-79/3

EGGA 3171 Dated 2 November 1964

Dispatch from Hamburg Base to Hqs. On 15 Oct 1964, after publication of the Warren Commission Report, untested source (Prof. Walter SIMON) reported the following to AMLOAN-1 (Wilhelm Bernhardt John KESSLER.) SIMON obtained the information from well-known Cuban scientist APIAGAS (fnu) in Havana on 23 November 1963.

APIAGAS claimed he was at the Havana Airport, by chance, on 22 Nov 63 when at 1700 hours an aircraft with Mexican markings landed and parked at the far side of the field. Two men whom he recognized as Cuban "gangsters" (identities not given), alighted, entered the rear entrance of the administration building and disappeared without going through the normal customs procedures.

APIAGAS learned that the aircraft had just arrived from Dallas, Texas via Tijuana and Mexico City. The plane had been forced to land at Tijuana due to engine trouble. By combining the date, the origin of the flight, and the known reputation of the two men, APIAGAS theorized that the two men must have been involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. APIAGAS speculated that Lee Harvey OSWALD had acted in the pay of CASTRO, and that


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

- 64 -

the two Cubans had been in Dallas to organize or
oversee the operation. APIAGAS said he had been greatly
distressed by what he had seen and heard.

CSCI 316/02545-64 dated 15 December 1964

Provided the foregoing information to the FBI. It
did not include the name of APIAGAS (fnu) or [Prof. ]
Walter SIMON but did state that follow-up was
impossible because the source [(SIMON)] had since
passed away.

DBA 94347 dated 31 December 1964 (FBI)

The FBI responded that "in view of the geographical
location of Tijuana in relation to Dallas and Mexico
City, it seemed unlikely the aircraft would have landed
there due to engine trouble if it was on a flight from
Dallas to Mexico City. Also, that due to the distances
between Dallas and Tijuana, Tijuana and Mexico City,
and Mexico City and Havana, the aircraft would have
had to leave Dallas a number of hours before the
assassination of President Kennedy to arrive in Havana
at 5 p.m." The FBI suggested that CIA may wish to
determine at the airport in Tijuana whether any aircraft


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

SLONETYDENSITIVE

- 65 -

landed there from Dallas on 22 November 1963 reporting
engine trouble and then proceeded on to Mexico City.
The FBI advised it was making no investigation of the
matter in the absence of further information from
CIA.

/COMMENT: There is no name trace record of

APIAGAS (fnu), Walter SIMON or his widow. Since

[SIMON'S widow had been willing to provide information
in the first interview, a subsequent interview after
her husband's death might have yielded results. In
view of vagueness of original report, its receipt a
year after the assassination, and lack of CIA assets
in Tijuana, Headquarters decided not to follow-up.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

- 66 -

MISCELLANEOUS - Cuba 19-500

DBF 54461 Dated 4 August 1960 (FBI)

Dr. and Mrs. Benjamin WARENSAJOLD advised the FBI Honolulu office on 1 August 60 that on 29 July 60 an unidentified male, said to be Cuban, whom they met at Canlis Broiler Cocktail Lounge Honolulu, said the U.S. would find its President with a bullet hole in his head and that Cuba would get even with the U.S. for what this country did to Cuba in the sugar field. Unidentified Cuban was described as: ca. 30 years old, 5'10" tall, 160 lbs., black hair, brown eyes, prominent teeth, well built, handsome and prosperous looking. Said he was in the sugar business.

DBA 72715 Dated 21 May 1964 (FBI)

On 12 May 1964 one Orlando Antonio Salomon DIAZ Canal, Cuban, appeared at Dallas, Texas FBI office; had a scrapbook which reflected he had plans to go to Cuba for the purpose of assassinating Fidel CASTRO. /COMMENT: traces show that he claimed (in 1963) to be founder of organization called "Suicide Battalion" with 200 men in U.S. and about 50 in Cuba, with purpose to assassinate CASTRO.

UFGW 4420 Dated 12 October 1964

Dispatch from Hqs. SAS to JMWAVE Station requesting WAVE Station reaction to request from FBI to declassify for


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

release to public by Warren Commission, report believed to have been passed to FBI Miami by WAVE Station. Concerned information from a Western diplomat alleging that the assassination of President Kennedy was the result of a plot prepared and executed jointly by Chinese Communists and Fidel CASTRO through intermediaries. The intermediaries were alleged to be Ramon B. CORTES, Mexican-American, and FERNANDEZ Feito (fnu), a Cuban, both located in Dallas, Texas. It was also alleged that these men were financed through an unidentified bank at 14 Wall Street, New York City.

Memorandum to the FBI from CIA (SAS) Dated 7 Dec 1963

Reported the above information to the FBI. Also noted that reportedly Fidel CASTRO was extremely worried about the current probings taking place into the assassination of President Kennedy and about the possible findings. The utterances about the plot came from SAAVEDRA (fnu), allegedly a close friend of Celia SANCHEZ. It further states that there appeared to have been no Soviet participation in the plot because at that time the Soviets were too close to the Americans. We advised the FBI of no Agency traces on CORTES and FERNANDEZ, but cited a Robert NIETO then living in Miami who could give details on CORTES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

- 68 -

and FERNANDEZ. CIA advised the FBI that the Agency was taking steps to further develop the information and to identify the original source and additional data would be provided the FBI immediately.

DBA 88772 dated 23 October 1964 (FBI)

FBI Miami Office, reported that one John H. WILLINGHAM (true name Virdell WILLINGHAM) at that time lived in Charlotte, North Carolina. He had served 10 months in U.S. Penitentiary Atlanta, Georgia for mailing a letter threatening the life of the President of the U.S. WILLINGHAM wrote a letter to the Assistant Secretary of Defense in August 1964 stating that he would be released from prison in a few months and would like a pass so that he could go directly from the U.S. to Cuba. He added that he would try to join the Cuban military service and would not be returning from Cuba.

MILITARY INTELLIGENCE SERVICES A/2

American Embassy Havana Document #1347 dated 24 Mar 60

Juan ORTA and another officer in CASTRO's office made arrangements in which Cuban Col. Damasco MONTESINO was arrested March 1960 for attempting to leave Cuba. (The other officer was Alfredo GUERRA).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

13-00000

SECRET/SENSITIVE
- 69 -

MINISTRY OF INTERIOR A/3 (Job #70-540 - No File Number)

DBF 95904 Dated 8 December 1961 (FBI)

Sent to Secret Service, I&NS, State Department Security,
and CIA. Stated that I&NS Office in Honolulu was
requested by I&NS Regional Office in San Pedro, Calif.,
4 December 1961 to place lookout notice on Aldo Pedro
MARGOLLES Duenas. MARGOLLES was reported to be son of
Chief of National Police in Cuba, and attempting to
enter the U.S. to meet with CASTRO agents to
assassinate President John Kennedy.

WAVE 0793 (IN 13094) Dated 18 January 1962
WAVE advised it had photos of MARGOLLES and Emilio
ARAGONES (also involved in plot) and would attempt to
develop further information on the assassination plot.

UFGA 3134 Dated 23 January 1962
JMWAVE Station forwarded to Hqs. photos and bio. data
on MARGOLLES and ARAGONES.

DIRECTOR 38056 (OUT 94877) Dated 27 January 1962)
Cable to Latin American Stations and Bases concerning
plot by MARGOLLES and ARAGONES. Requested any info
their current whereabouts, on priority basis.

MEMO WAS 50/7 Dated 29 January 1962 to Regional
Commissioner from District Director, Wash., D.C.
To Regional Intelligence Officer giving information
on Raul DIAZ Arguelles. DIAZ reportedly trained in


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

- 70 -

Czech. to be head of political police of Cuba.

Reportedly took refuge in Brazilian Embassy Havana which appeared to be cover-up to carry on secret activity. Attended school in U.S. for several years (believed to be military school in Georgia) and to be a graduate of the University of Havana. His father reportedly lived in Miami at this time. (1962).

An uncle by the same name, living in Cuba in 1962, is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy. In 1962 DIAZ was head of the Department of Technical Investigation (DTI) of the Rebel Army. A known terrorist, he is said to be capable of use of explosive bombs and automatic weapons. Is believed to have directed assassinations in the past from somewhere in Mexico. A good friend of Rolando CUBELA.

MEXI 0092 (IN 26086) Dated 10 February 1962

According to [Mexico immigration] records, MARGOLLES and ARAGONES arrived Mexico City by air on 27 June 1957 as political refugees from Batista regime. Both sought political asylum in Mexican Embassy Havana in mid-1957.

MEMO For The Secret Service from William McClare

Dated 13 February 1962

Gives summary of information on Raul DIAZ Arguelles.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

- 71 -

Although DIAZ has a position of great influence in the DTI, he is poorly regarded. He is (62) reportedly working with former U.S. gangsters who were deported from the U.S. and also affiliated with the narcotics racket. Is believed to be in complete charge of "any activity as contemplated by Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES-Duenas, which involved a plot to assassinate the President of the United States."

UFGA 3302 Dated 16 February 1962

JMWAVE Station advised Hqs. of information on DIAZ, MARGOLLES and ARAGONES that it had sent to U.S. Secret Service Miami, Florida.

CICS 3/769,904 Dated 26 March 1962

CIA provided U.S. Secret Service, FBI and I&NS information on MARGOLLES and ARAGONES.

Unofficial Memo - Mr. Alfred Cox from Ernest Aragon

Undated

States ARAGONES is believed to be General Coordinator of the National 26th of July Movement and National Chief of CASTRO's militia. Is one of CASTRO's right hand men and accompanies CASTRO in all public appearances. ARAGONES is coordinator of alleged plot (against President Kennedy.) Both ARAGONES and MARGOLLES have fanatical tendencies.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

UFGA 15107 dated 8 April 1964

Transmitted to Headquarters Target Personality

Study on Aldo Pedro MARGOLLES Duenas (201-315161).

MOVIMIENTO DEMOCRATICO CRISTIANO (CDM) 19-120-13

(Christian Democratic Movement)

U.S. Embassy Foreign Service Dispatch, Havana,

#1614 dated 9 May 1960 (837,432/5-2460)

Reported that the Revolutionary Government has skillfully maneuvered Rolando CUBELA, the President of the FEU, and his pro-Communist cohorts into a position of power. First, on May 7, it was CUBELA who was given the task of inciting the mob and bruiting the fact that the powers-that-be disapproved of Aureliano SANCHEZ Arango. Communist "goon-squad" tactics had become so vicious that even many students who had heretofore been circumspectly apolitical are afraid to attend classes. The Vice-Secretary of the School of Agronomy asked how it was that if CUBELA leadership so deplored violence that it had remained impassive in the face of the physical violence perpetrated against his person by members of the Communist Youth from the Instituto de la Habana, who had entered the University grounds completely armed. CUBELA and Angel QUEVEDO, went about the campus carrying arms, in direct violation of the University regulations.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

- 73 -

MOVIMIENTO REVOLUCIONARIO del PUEBLO (MRP) 19-120-22

(Peoples Revolutionary Movement)

Memo to Cleve (Dr. Cleveland C. Cram) from M. Oldfield

Dated 8 November 1961

Concerns a Cuban Government report published in the press which claimed that the Peoples Revolutionary Movement directed and supplied by the U.S. CIA and Department of State, planned acts of sabotage and more recently planned an attempt to assassinate Fidel CASTRO and other government leaders early in October. The attempt on Fidel allegedly was discovered the day before it was due to take place.

Moscow TASS in English to Europe 8 November 1961

Reported the information in the 8 November 1961 Memorandum, above, and cited it as new proof of American imperialism's criminal conspiracy against free Cuba.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

- 74 -

MOVIMIENTO de RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (MRR) 19-120-18
(Revolutionary Recovery Movement)

UFGA 4948 Dated 18 July 1962 Report No. AA 134

One Juan FALCON Tamar, alleged National Coordinator of the MRR in Cuba was interviewed on Cuban "Radio Rebelde" Station 17 July 1962. He said he planned the assassination of Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ. He also talked about a plot to assassinate Raul CASTRO on 26 July 61, a plot he attributed to the CIA. He also mentioned the assassination of Fidel at the same time.

FALCON claimed that the plot against Raul was invented by the CIA, and that the CIA provided financial support to MRR activities. No indication FALCON worked for CIA.[^1]

WAVE 5879 (IN 30751) Dated 18 July 1962

WAVE Station advised that FALCON's presentation appeared previously taped and poorly rehearsed. Cable is slugged AMBRONC-5 complex. AMBRONC-5 was an Agency asset executed by the Cuban Government.[^1]

Memo to Chief, Task Force W from COS, JMWAVE, 16 Aug 62
The Ops That Failed/MRR

Concerns interview 14 Aug 62 of Victor MARTINEZ Zambrano, a former hot-shot activist of the MRR in Havana who was an asylee in the Argentine and Brazilian Embassies and left Cuba. In Sept. 61 he organized the operation which

[^1]: .


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

- 75 -

failed, the plan to assassinate Carlos Rafael RODRIGUEZ. Reportedly one of the persons involved pulled the pin of the hand grenade prematurely, it exploded, one man was killed and another critically injured. MARTINEZ escaped, went into hiding, and later came to the U.S.

MOVIMIENTO de RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIO (MRR) 19-300-11
(Revolutionary Recovery Movement)

TDCSDB 3/656,595 Dated 12 September 1963

On 7 September 1963 the Movimiento Insurreccional de Recuperacion Revolucionaria (MIRR-Insurrectional Movement for Revolutionary Recovery) made an abortive attempt to bomb a target in Cuba. On 8 September 1963, Jack GRIFFIN (U.S. citizen), an unidentified American, and a Cuban described only as a demolition expert and former member of Brigade 2506, bombed a sugar plant and dropped 6,000 leaflets near Moron, Camaguey Province. Five of the six bombs exploded with violent force, and started several fires in the sugar mill. There was estimated 50% destruction. This was done in the name of the MIRR.

An American by the name of Bill Johnson, reportedly had full control over all MIRR operations. Money was supplied by Orlando BOSCH Avila, obtained from Chiri MENDOZA. Johnson worried for fear that their next planned


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

SECRLI,JUIITIVE

- 76 -

raid, target of a military nature, could cause
international repercussions and/or bring them under
prosecution on the neutrality act. BOSCH and MENDOZA
were collaborating with Jose Mario "Pepin" BOSCH Lamarque
and two former sugar mill owners to back a daylight
raid on a Cuban MIG base with two rocket-firing P-51's.

AMMUG Project (Cuban DGI Defector) 19-6-102

Memo for the Record dated 4 June 1964

Re Debriefing Report #119 of AMMUG-1 (Vladimir
RODRIGUEZ Lahera). He did not recognize photo of
Braulio MARTINEZ Alfonso, Cuban born naturalized
U.S. citizen. MARTINEZ returned to Cuba after the
fall of Batista. Also known as "SUAREZ" and Francisco
De RAVIRICH, he has been reported as an intelligence
officer.

ΗΗΤΑ 3782 dated 16 June 1964

Dispatch from Tegucigalpa to Mexico City. A
Tegucigalpa Station asset assigned to monitor certain Honduran ham radio operators of interest to
the Station, reported the following, most unusual,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

- 77 -

conversation. On 14 June Mexico came in very clear
and by chance picked up a strange conversation from
a ham station in Cuba. The Cuban station was talking
to Mexico ham radio operator named Alfonso, call letters
XRIWA. Cuban station told Alfonso to contact a famous
band leader named Antonio Maria Romero and kept
referring to "El Corsario Negro." The Cuban station
instructed Alfonso that once he contacted Romero he
should have him record ''Tres Lindas Cubanas."

Memo for C/WH/PO/A from C/WH/SA/CI dated 15 Oct 1964
19-6-102/3 AMMUG-1 Debriefing Report #203.

AMMUG-1 said when President Kennedy died "Augusto"
DGI Deputy Chief, Carlos Sixto CHAIN Soler, arranged
a meeting at the National Liberation Building in
Havana. He asked the National Liberation officers to
urgently prepare commo system for a message to their
agents to be transmitted by Radio Havana. Musical
recording to accompany message was "Three (or Six)
Beautiful Cubans."

HHTW 1721 dated 15 October 1964

Dispatch that transmitted the foregoing information
to Tegucigalpa from Hqs. WH/SA.

/COMMENT: The AMMUG information duplicates that recorded
under ZRKNICK./


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

NATIONAL REVOLUTIONARY COUNCIL INSIDE CUBA 19-9-13

Memo to Chief, Contact Division, 00 from Chief,
Washington Field Office, 31 July 1961

Julio HUERTEMATTE, Vice-President of National Bank
of Washington, told 00 on 25 July 61 that a Cuban
underground leader (identity unknown) who had been
in prison in Cuba and recently come to Miami, told
HUERTEMATTE that CIA agent Pedro CUELLAR had denounced
five underground leaders to the CASTRO authorites.
/COMMENT: This confirms previous information that
CUELLAR was a double agent. He reportedly caused
the execution of a number of counter-revolutionaries
operating in Cuba. CUELLAR's dependents have been
paid under Project [SLSTIPEND] since the early 1960's.
In view of evidence that CUELLAR was not executed
by the CASTRO/as publicized in the Washington Post
in the early 1960's, it has been recommended to the
Commercial Cover Staff that administers the the [SLSTIPEND
Project, to further investigate the case and stop
payments if possible.

WAVE 7900 (IN 39024) dated 14 Sept 61; and DIRECTOR
13231 (OUR 99328) dated 20 Sept 61

Both these cables discuss CIA support to AMBLESS-1
([Alberto del JUNCO Mesa]) one of the Agency's best


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

- 79 -

controlled on-island CA asset. We provided financial and other support for on-island operations. / Comment: if brought to the attention of the GOC, such activities might have prompted the GOC to consider retaliatory action against the U.S. Government.7

OPERATIONAL GUIDANCE 19-126-4

Memo to C/WH/4 from Dave Phillips dated 2 July 1960
Concerns propaganda action to be taken against visit of Nikita KHRUSHCHEV to Cuba re 25th of July celebration, including rumor of attempted assassination against KHRUSHCHEV. Speculation on the assassination attempts was to be surfaced on WRUL program, in AMPACA's paper, etc.

Memo to Director of Central Intelligence from C/WHD dated 5 July 1960
In effort to prevent or counteract KHRUSCHEV's visit to Cuba, Hqs. proposed prop action to instigate a rumor or rumors that KHRUSHCHEV's life woud be in danger while in Cuba, from a well-planned assassination attempt. This would be propagated from other Latin American countries.

DIRECTOR 84642 dated 22 November 1963
Prop guidance to WAVE Station for media assets. Requested they use tape excerpts of appropriate portions of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

Kennedy speech to LA newspaper conference held in
Miami that week, and to note in broadcasts that
President's last major address directed to LA audience
concentrated on Cuban freedom. This was to be broadcast
over JMHOPE with tributes and appropriate comment on
25 November, and have JMHOPE stress religious theme
on Sunday 24 November.

AMOT Project (Later Became SLIGO Project) 19-5-3

TDCSDB 3/655,033 dated 12 June 1963 (UFG 3021)

Report that members of Cubanos Libres (Free Cubans)
left Florida on 6 June 63 with mission to infiltrate
Cuba and assassinate Fidel CASTRO Ruz. Was intercepted
by Cuban boat, exchanged gunfire, and returned to
Florida. Mission was unsuccessful. Manuel QUIZA Docal,
leader of Cubanos Libres, a Cuban exile action group,
had officially committed himself to JURE for any
executive action which JURE might undertake against
CASTRO's Cuba. /QUIZA was not connected with CIA.7

UFG 5099 dated 4 May 1964 19-6-95/4 (AMOT Report)

Concerned a plot discovered by the DSE (Department of
State Security) on 9 or 10 March 64 to assassinate
CASTRO. The assassination was planned for 13 March when
Castro was expected to visit the CMQ Radio and TV
Studio in Havana.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# SECRET/SENSITIVE

## 81

DIRECTOR 31178 dated 25 June 1964

This referenced documents (UFGA 15954 and WAVE 7129 (IN 93714) having to do with plot to assassinate CASTRO. This information was dissemed to the Special Group and other key officials. The Special Group was concerned about the matter and referred it to the Dept. of Justice as a matter of law enforcement.

WAVE 9168 (IN 26320) dated 12 July 1964 Cable to Hqs.

AMWAX-1 (Oscar FERNANDEZ Viega) and [UOAMBER-2 (Miguel Guillermo TRUYOL-Gimeno were independently interviewed by local FBI reps. concerning plot to assassinate CASTRO. Both denied any knowledge of or participation in any plan to assassinate CASTRO. For Hqs. FYI: "Regarding AMWAX-1 and UCAMBER-2, WAVE wishes emphasize that both sources clearly understand they have no sanctions from WAVE to directly or indirectly promote, sponsor, or support such plan or any similar plans regardless of person against whom they directed."

WAVE 5446 (IN 32990) dated 1 Dec 1964

AMOT Report DD-1206 dated 19 Nov 1964 stated that as part of plan to assassinate CASTRO, a rumor was to be floated that one of the organizations belonging to the alliance was fighting inside Cuba. The rumors were


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

- 82 -

expected to impress U.S. Government officials who were
already having talks with Manuel URRUTIA Lleo, and
willing to provide financial assistance to him.

PLOTS TO ASSASSINATE THE PRESIDENT OF THE U.S. 100-300-12

DIRECTOR 03964 dated 8 December 1962

Cable from Agency to Secret Service, FBI and State
Dept. Security forwarding text of a letter from Havana,
dated 27 Nov 62, to Miami, concerning plot to
assassinate President Kennedy. Letter was addressed
to a Post Office Box in Miami belonging to the Radio
Libertad La Voz, Anti-Comunista de America. Since the
addressee was unknown to members of Radio Libertad, one
of their Miami reps. passed the letter to a contact of
JMWAVE Station. Addressee was Bernardo Adalberto
MORALES-Rivero.

DIRECTOR 4013 dated 8 December 1962

Cable from Agency to addressees cited above. Provided
traces on Bernardo Adalberto MORALES-Rivero who entered
the U.S. in May 62 on a fraudulent visa.

UFGA 6884 dated 10 December 1962

Dispatch from JMWAVE Station to Hqs. Stated that letter
similar to 27 Nov 62 one cited above, possibly written by


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

SECTET/OLIVE

- 83 -

same author, was in possession of Treasury Dept., Wash., D.C. by official who was in contact with CIA on the matter. JMWAVE forwarded the 29 Nov 62 letter, from Jose MENENDEZ to Bernardo MORALES in Miami, and suggested that Hqs. pass it to the Treasury Dept. for technical handling. JMWAVE was anxious to receive results of both of the letters on the grounds that they may be part of a planned G-2 PW operation in the U.S. or against U.S. targets.

DIRECTOR 04538 dated 11 December 1962

Hqs. CIA cabled to Secret Service, FBI and State Security, traces on Olga DUQUE de Heredia and Aida MAYO, Miami reps. of the org. Radio Libertad La Voz Anti-Comunista de America, address to which letter to MORALES was addressed. DUQUE and MAYO turned the letter over to a contact of CIA, since MORALES was reportedly unknown to them. DUQUE was married to Humberto LOPEZ Perez, operator of Radio Libertad, Caracas, Venezuela; Aida MAYO was a close friend of Fidel CASTRO and was believed to act occasionally on behalf of the Cuban Government.

DIRECTOR 04501 dated 12 December 1962

Hqs. advised JMWAVE Station that Hqs. in disseming information did not reveal Cesar Augusto GAJATE Puig[^4] as intermediary between WAVE and DUQUE and MAYO. Suggested WAVE advise Secret Service of GAJATE'S[^4] role since Secret

[^4]:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

- 84 -

Service investigation would surface him anyway. Asked
that the Secret Service protect his identity.

WAVE 2266 (IN 33425) dated 11 December 1962

WAVE cabled to Hqs. traces on DUQUE, MAYO and Radio
Libertad.

Memo dated 12 December 1962 re Information from
Sedret Service

Gives information from a usually reliable source on
Jose MENENDEZ Ramos. MENENDEZ, born in Cuba, was a
baker in Tampa, Fla., and member of Executive Committee
of the FPCC. After Oct. 61 his wife defected to Cuba with
the children, and Jose left to join her shortly thereafter.
Jose was later seen in Cuba by people who said he had
a top job there. Jose also was reported to be
connected with INRA, (Agrarian Reform Institute).

PRO-GOBIERNO CONSTITUCIONAL de CUBA (PGCC) 19-9-15

UFGA 2242 dated 30 August 1961

A sub-agent of JMWAVE Station outside unit (AMOT's)
reported on 22 Aug. 61 a statement by Dr. Jose MIRO
Cardona that Kennedy was still backing him and was
going to give him immediately the sum of four million
dollars for sabotage and propaganda.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

- 85 -

WAVE 9026 (IN 18296) dated 6 November 1961

WAVE cabled Hqs. info. from independent sources following meetings between HURWITCH, PASSAVOY and MIRO Cardona. AMCLATTER-1 (Bernard Barker of Watergate fame) reported that HURWITCH and a CIA official were discussing revolutionary affairs with MIRO Cardona, and that CARDONA and his group were backed by President Kennedy. It was further reported that CARDONA had full powers from President Kennedy and was in a position to give orders to CIA which would be on a secondary level. In addition CARDONA reportedly stated that he had U.S. Government support to direct CASTRO underground activities, and that all other groups must join him to get support. Other groups not interested in joining CARDONA, because his ideology was different from their's. CARDONA had never come out strongly as anti-CASTROITE.

UFGA 3806 dated 20 April 1962

Concerned plans of Central American countries for action against Cuba. One General SOMOZA (President of Nicaragua) stated that CIA would be handling the intelligence ramifications toward organizing a Cuban military group in Central America. The dispatch deals with additional U.S. Government aid. Also, one YDIGORAS (President of Guatemala) was to be in Wash., D.C. on 28 April 62 as a guest of President Kennedy, at which


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

SECRET/SENOMNIVE
- 86

time he expected to present the Cuban-in-exile plan.

UFK-16 dated 15 May 1962

Reported information from GARCERAN, leader of the
Pro-Gobierno Constitucional en el Exilio (an anti-Castro
organization operating out of Miami, Fla.) GARCERAN
stated that lawyer Geno NEGRETI had made an appointment
to see him stating that a Mr. WARBELL wanted to see him.
NEGRETI made his appointment on 8 May 62. It was
GARCERAN's understanding that WARBELL was the go-between
for a Mr. TROUTMAN from Atlanta, Georgia, who had been
the boy friend of President Kennedy's sister (the one
who had died). WARBELL indicated that he wanted the
appointment to see what GARCERAN's needs were and what
aid and assistance GARCERAN wanted for carrying the
war to Cuba.

Department of State Memo dated 14 July 1965

Had attached to it a PGCC memo to the Department.
It contained a quote of Fidel CASTRO that he wanted
to arm Cuba with the most modern equipment (arms,
planes, etc.) capable of stopping the United States,
and the Latin American countries as well, "before they
discover our strategic plans. To that end I need from
hundreds of thousands of light infantry arms to planes
and long range artillery. Every country in the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

- 87 -

Continent must be the target of our guns, from New
York and Washington to Santiago de Chile and Buenos
Aires." On 2 Jan 61 CASTRO asked Latin Americans to
take arms against their own governments; on 26 July
62 he demanded a continental revolutionary drive; in
1963 he predicted that Venezuela and Guatemala would
surrender the said year. CASTRO's sister Juana
(Juanita) arrived in Mexico City from Cuba on 20 June
64. Although she was considered a defector of the
CASTRO regime, she had been an agent (CIA) for the
prior two and a half years.

AMPUNCH Project 19-6-118/2,3,4

23 November 1963 open text letter from asset, in Cuba,
Filed in SW Chrono June 63 -Dec.
Acknowledged the death of President Kennedy.

AMQUAR Project 19-124-28/1-4

HAMB 3879 (IN 50361) dated 30 Oct 63; HAMB 3880
(IN 50478) Identities

Concerns debriefing of [CASAILOR-25] on 24 and 25 Oct 63.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

- 88 -

He reported that Faustino PËREZ, born ca. 1923, commander in CASTRO's army in Havana Hqs., Granma veteran and former minister in CASTRO's Government, told C-25 in August 1963 that CASTRO must be killed and all resistance groups organized. (C-25 described PEREZ as an opportunist who would need promise of advantage in return for help.

AMRANGE Project 19-6-81/1-4

Memo for Chief TFW from DC/TFW/FI re DEGRIP Report dated 28 August 1962

Concerns one Vasco CECCHI, proprietor of the MONTECATINI Restaurant in Vedado quarter of Havana frequented by Fidel CASTRO and his entourage. Employees of the restaurant reportedly were anti-Castroites. Source of the report called attention to closet, partly under stairs used for storage, but which he believed could be used to hide man comfortably. On one of the floors above the restaurant lived a certain Lt. RAMOS who was evidently an intimate of Fidel CASTRO. CASTRO often visited him. /COMMENT: See File "Plots to Assassinate the President of the U.S."100-300-12, Memo from Secret Service dated 12 December 1962, concerning one Jose MENENDEZ Ramos who may be identifiable with Lt. RAMOS7.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

- 89 -

MEXI΄ 6844 (IN 57745) dated 8 November 1963

Cable to Hqs. DEGRIP reported that CASTRO visited restaurant at least once a month and was "a sitting duck." CECCHI reported to be cowardly type."

MEXI 0880 (IN 73754) dated 14 Sept 1964

Cable to Hqs. reported that CECCHI was arrested and imprisoned in La Cabana Fortress and to be tried for plotting against life of Fidel CASTRO. "Prosecutor to ask for 30 year sentence. Employees of reataurant in mid-Aug 64 told source CECCHI was arrested for illegal currency transactions. /COMMENT: No 201 file on CECCHI. Preliminary traces do not indicate connection with CIA.7

AMRAPT Project - La Voz de Cuba 19=126-10

WAVE 0662 (IN 44282) dated 13 April 1965

In April 1965 Francisco CHAO Hermida revealed to a WAVE case officer his "grand plan" for which he requested CIA support. Plan was to recruit trusted men in Miami, infiltrate Cuba, surveil CASTRO, and at opportune time, assassinate him. C/O told CHAO CIA was not interested and could not do business with him.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

- 90 -

RESCATE (MOVIMIENTO de RESCATE CONSTITUCIONAL DEMOCRATICO)

(Cuban Revolutionary Democratic Rescue Committee) 19-120-39

Anti-Castro revolutionary group; one of among groups forming FRD (Democratic Revolutionary Front) and subsequent CRC (Cuban Revolutionary Council). Was controlled by Antonio de VARONA with Hqs. in Miami.

RIMM 4359 (IN 2330) dated 8 April 1961

Radio message from on-island agent. Concerns fact that Cuban by name of Hilly PATTEN, who was in exile in Miami a year previously, belonged to Rescate group and apparently would be bringing arms in from Venezuela soon. Agent said his personal opinion was that Tony VARONA wanted to produce armed action before other groups and for that reason had purchased arms on his own.

DBA 5681 dated 28 March 1962 (FBI)

Stated that Sergio APARICIO, Sec. Gen. of Rescate in New York City advised State Dept. rep. that Rescate had purchased about 30 weapons which were delivered to Miami and then by boat to the underground in Cuba. Jose F. GONZALEZ, associated with Rescate and VARONA, called APARICIO to Wash., D.C. on 2 March 62 and told him not to engage in collection of funds for purchase of any arms or munitions, because there was nothing the Cubans


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

- 91 -

could do in a military way which would be capable
of overthrowing the present Government of Cuba. An
FBI source advised on 16 Mar 62 that APARICIO and Rescate
were making arrangements to picket the White House on
14 Apr 62 for several hours to ask President Kennedy
to keep his word re assisting the Cuban exiles in
overthrowing the CASTRO Government. APARICIO described
the 30 weapons as M-1's delivered to Miami and taken to
Cuba by boat and distributed among the underground.
APARICIO stated that they had been attempting to supply
Osvaldo RAMIREZ, who was in the Escambray Mountains.
The weapons were reportedly delivered to Cuba by
Commandante AUGUSTO, war name for Ramon RUISANCHEZ,
brother-in-law of Tony VARONA.

DBA 23967 dated 28 September 1962 (FBI)

Reported that a small group of Cuban exiles living in
Panama was planning to assassinate highest Cuban Gov't
official attending 9th Central American Games in Kingston
and hoped that it would be Fidel CASTRO. Plotters
were reported to be: Rene MARSELLA Garaboto, Conrado
RODRIGUEZ Sanchez, Eulogio LOPEZ, Antolin SANCHEZ Govin,
and Jose Julio FERNANDEZ. Garaboto planned to leave
Panama for U.S. 3 Aug 62 to present plan to Manuel
Antonio de VARONA, ranking member of CRC (Cuban
Revolutionary Council), request financial and visa


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

92

assistance and moral support. MARSELLA said that he
worked actively in a clandestine manner for Rescate.

VARONA did not give much encouragement to the plan;
in fact, said he could not sanction or assist in
assassination plan.

REVOLUTIONARY JUNTA OF NATIONAL LIBERATION 19-9-12/1
(Right-wing Anti-Castro Group in Exile)

Prensa Latina Havana Broadcast 21 July 1961

Reported that "Cuban Counterrevolutionary Council, headed
by Dr. Jose MIRO Cardona, was liquidated together with
the mercenary brigade of the CIA in the Playa Giron (Bay
of Pigs) disaster. However, a new team has emerged
which intends to form a government in exile to be
supported and recognized by the U.S. New York
Congressman Victor L. ANFUSO, intimate friend of former
Cuban dictator Fulgensio BATISTA is principal promoter
of idea, which is based on uniting all counterrevolutionary
groups established inthe U.S." /COMMENT: ANFUSO planned
to call a meeting in Washington in a few days to set up
the new government. List of participants had not been
announced, but included among those believed to be
present was Guillermo ALONSO Pujol. DGI defector


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

SLIPSTREAM-1 in Nov 71 said that ALONSO was a Cuban
Gov't agent. He had high USG contacts back then (in 60/61)
and knowledge of U.S. Government/CIA cover for activities.
ALONSO was used as a cut-out, or intermediary, supposedly
unwittingly, in sensitive Agency operations, in the late
60's and early 70's.7

ZRRIFLE Project Job # 69-S-551 No File Number

ZRRIFLE/Administrative Financial Folder

OIRT 2173 dated 13 October 1960, Att. Top Secret

DEPIGRAM, Italian Interpol representative, Source

and spotter for Corsicans Altman to pick his brain
and pinpoint his ability to do this job for us, but
once selection made, (DEPIGRAM to be cut out of the operation.

Memo to C/FI from William Harvey, 27 June 1963

"As far as ZRRIFLE aspects this op, which have been
covered under the QJWIN authorization for security
reasons and with which Fletcher Knight is fully
familiar, except for one precautionary 'life line',
aspects of this case have been terminated and need
no longer be considered part of this project."

Folder entitled Personality Sketches

Tab M Harold MELTZER

Harold MELTZER with aliases was involved in the rackets


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

- 94 -

with upper echelon "hoodlums" throughout the U.S. (pg. 1 Encl. 3 dated 19 Dec 1960.) "In 1959 he furnished information to our QJWIN California office but has not since cooperated with us. N.B. He has the background and talent for the matter we discussed but it is not known whether he would be receptive."

Tab Y - Hanna YAZBECK

YAZBECK lived in Beurit and worked for QJWIN's office intermittendly during the past 10 years (dates not given - possibly 51-61). YAZBECK's chief bodyguard from 50-58 (not named) was a convicted murderer. The bodyguard was murdered. States that YAZBECK has an available pool of assassins.

JMROC Project (Travel of President Johnson to Punta del Este, Uruguay in 1967) 200-6-351/9

Memo CO-2-39,887 to Mr. James Ludlum Liaison Officer

CI Staff, dated 7 March 1967

Concerns individual by name of Jose PEREZ, Colombian.

Document shows undetermined association with assassinations in Guatemala.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

- 95 -

CP-9212 dated 10 March 1967

Concerns Jaime CARDONA-Londono, Colombian, arrested in New Orleans in May 64 for trespassing. He had in his possession typewritten document which purported to be proposed constitution for new super world government with provisions to condemn to death various personages including L. Johnson, daughter of L. Johnson, and Mrs. J. Kennedy. When interviewed 12/22/64 he did not indicate any interest in the death of the President.

16-17
CARACAS 6104 (IN 8778) dated 25 February 1967

A usually reliable source reported to CIA that well-known


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

- 96 -

Venezuelan terrorist, Carlos SAVELLI Maldonado,
by own admission met on 30 April and 1 May 1965
with leftist extremist reps. to discuss assassination
of, among others, American ambassador (presumably
American ambassador to Venezuela).

AMSANTA Project 19-6-73/3

MEMO for the Record dated 10 July 1963 by Lou De Santi
Concerns FBI informant Victor Thomas VICENTE, Puerto
Rican citizen, who penetrated Communist Parties in
New York City, left New York for Cuba via Mexico as
guest of ICAP (Cuban Peoples Friendship Institute).
Was debriefed by CIA staffer Lou DeSanti upon return
to the U.S. in July-Aug 63. VICENTE stated he had had
interviews with CASTRO and Che GUEVARA. VICENTE
penetrated the FPCC, the Casa Cuba, and Jose Marti Club
in New York City. / COMMENT: Page 127 of IG 1967 report
mentions unnamed Puerto Rican who claims he participated
in CASTRO inspired assassination plot in Dallas. Don't
know if VICENTE could be that individual.7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

AMSLOUCH Project 28-6-33

RIOD 2944 (IN 83322) dated 18 December 1963

Mario Rogerio MESTRINHO de Mello, official in Brazillian Embassy Havana, reported the following to Rio Station contact in Rio on 13 December 1963:
a) wide rumor of assassination attempt against Fidel CASTRO after his TV appearance 6 Dec resulting in killing of man next to him. CASTRO uninjured. Would be killer at large.
b) wide rumor Cuban Jose "Pepe" LLANUZA met Lee OSWALD in Mexico before Kennedy assassination.

AMSOUR Project 19-6-70

SW Message #27 from agent dated 11 October 1964

"On the assassination attempt against Fidel, we know they took two civilians wounded by shooting to the Calixto Garcia Hospital. Moments later, two soldiers from Fidel's guards presented themselves in said hospital taking away the wounded. We do not have more details."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

- 98 -

CSDB 312/01128-64 dated 19 November 1964

In late September 1964 a Cuban soldier guarding the Algerian Embassy in Havana attempted to assassinate Premier Fidel CASTRO Ruz, who was in the embassy at the time. The soldier killed another sentry before being shot on the spot by the security forces. By early October 11 officers and men involved in the attempt on Fidel's life were apprehended while trying to escape and were executed without trial. /COMMENT:
In Aug 64 there were rumors of uprising and plots against the Castro regime, some within the armed forces, which reportedly lead to summary arrests and secret executions. During this period underground sources reported that 70 Cuban Army officers had been arrested in connection with a plot to topple CASTRO's regime; the plot allegedly had been discovered by a CASTRO agent who pretended to be a participant. (Could this have been the AMTRUNK Operation.?7

AMSPELL Project - Directorio Revolutionario Estudiantil (Student Revolutionary Directory) 19-124-26 (Project) and 19-120-19 Subject File

Memorandum dated 22 May 1962 in 201-316766 (Luis FERNANDEZ-Rocha Rodriguez) File

Last para of page 2 "Jose I. LASAGA has returned from


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

Washington and is very depressed. He claims that
JFK has decided on the co-existence line and that
everything is going down the drain. He states that
present American policy is to work towards an
acceptance of Castro."

WAVE 9060 (IN 29221) dated 26 September 1962

FERNANDEZ has accepted bid to appear on nationwide TV
networks and is leaving for NYCity morning 26 Sept.
Publicity schedule included how DRE 24 Aug attack on
Teatro Blanquita was planned, and adverse reaction
within Cuba to President Kennedy's definition of
defensive arms.

Contact Report dated 16 Nov 1962 (201-316766)

Contact with AMHINT-2 and FERNANDEZ

FERNANDEZ mentioned meeting in Wash., D.C. in which
broad proposal for AMBARB funding (Prop. project
place students in universities in Latin America) was
discussed. FERNANDEZ mentioned "negotiation" underway
with "three industrialists" in Texas who were
sympathetic and would provide AMBARB delegates in
these countries (Latin American countries?) with Agency
representations for their products.

UFGW 1595 from TFW to JMWAVE dated 18 January 1963

Forwarded answer from State Dept. to the DRE letter
written to President Kennedy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

- 100 -

DIRECTOR 8214 to WAVE dated 2 January 1963

HURWITCH (State Dept. Cuban Coordinator) replying
briefly to AMSPELL letter to President Kennedy
by referring DRE organization to President Kennedy's
29 December Miami speech as latest official
statement of U.S. policy.

"Using DRE 26 Dec coded broadcast over WMIE as opening
wedge, NEWBY reprimanded FERNANDEZ for failure report
unusual substance text. Also pointed out this flagrant
violation FCC regulations thus placing CIA in
embarrassing position. FERNANDEZ apologized but said
it urgently necessary alert Cuba DRE to penetration
danger. This was first time existence of penetration
was reported by FERNANDEZ or other DRE member. To
inquiry why FERNANDEZ withheld such info. from CIA, although
known to DRE for months, FERNANDEZ replied DRE merely
suspected penetration before but only now certain.
Avoided giving specifics. /COMMENT: After four years
as chief of CIA subsidized DRE group, FERNANDEZ resigned
July 64 to pursue medical studies.7

UFGA 7383 from JMWAVE to Hqs. dated 28 January 1963

Stated that Jorge MEDINA Bringuier, Sec. Gen. of the DRE
in Cuba, was G-2 agent. That MEDINA was in contact with
FERNANDEZ while in Cuba and planned to use FERNANDEZ to
establish his bona fides with CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 101 -

WAVE 4222 (IN 17952) dated 12 September 1963

IMMEDIATE Action: Stated that Nov 63 issue of *See* Magazine already on newsstands contained wanted poster of Fidel CASTRO on front cover. Poster read "wanted dead or alive, Fidel CASTRO for crimes against humanity, 10 million dollars reward." Same copy highlighted these stories with top billing given story titled "The CIA needs men - can you quality?" The wanted poster was part of a story, gist of which was DRE offers 10 million dollar reward "to person or persons who with the help of the DRE will assassinate Fidel CASTRO." Offer alleged that reward was on deposit with Banco de Santo Domingo, and was signed by Luis FERNANDEZ-ROCHA Rodriguez. /COMMENT: FERNANDEZ first came to the U.S. in May 1960. Was polygraphed Mar 62, suspected of being G-2. Clearance granted 18 Apr 62 for use in DRE; encrypted AMHINT-53. Featured on Channel 4 TV 26 Sept 62 as having been organizing DRE underground Cuba since 20 May and having directed attack 24 Aug on Teatro Blanquita.[^7]

AMSPILL Project 19-6-76/2-4

Ops Folder July 62 - May 64: SW Outgoing Mge #7, 5 Dec 62 "can you confirm or deny through contacts in medical

[^7]:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

- 102 -

field about assassination attempt of Lazaro PENA by (sic) on? Fidel?" /COMMENT: Message #46 from A-1 was dated 13 Sept 63. Next message in file is #56 dated 27 Dec 63. File has a gap of 10 messages which are unaccounted for. Message #58 dated 27 Dec 63 mentions interruption of contact. A-1 did not specify how long he was without contact. It may be that contact was indeed non-existent from 13 Sept to 27 Dec but the numbering system should have picked up and continued from the last number.7

PLSLSTEEL-1 Project 68-6-147

TDCSDB 3/651,885 dated 25 Oct 1962 filed 68-6-147/4

Minister MOLYAKOV told a Bloc diplomat that he thought the U.S. action /missile crisis/ was an "election affair"; that President Kennedy discovered that his popularity had dropped and undertook the Cuban measure to "become the leader again."

GNVA 4357 (OUT 53779) 25 Oct 1963 filed 68-6-147/4

MOLYAKOV commented that the USSR would not let the American move go without retaliation. That with this measure he /President Kennedy/ had become the "man


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

- 103 -

of the nation" again, and the nation was in a
state of hysteria behind him.

GNVA 4376 (OUT 53800) 27 Oct 1962 filed 201-9239

At a dinner party on 25 Oct 62 in Geneva attended by
orbit officials, MOLYAKOV reportedly stated that
KHRUSHCHEV was aware that Kennedy was mad, an
adventurer, and must not be allowed to pull strings,
meaning, to retain initiative or control pace in
the current international situation.

GNVA 4470 (OUT 53909) 19Nov 62 (TDCSDB 2/652,244)

Filed 68-6-147/4

Reported the following on the probable reaction of
Fidel CASTRO and his principal associates to the Soviet
withdrawal of offensive missiles from Cuba and to
U.S. demands re the withdrawal of Soviet IL-28 aircraft
and on-spot inspection: Source said that CASTRO's
vanity was immense and no matter how it had been
explained to him by MIKOYAN or other Soviet officials,
he must have been furious at the fact that the Soviet
Union had "backed down" before the U.S. and was
negotiating with the U.S. on an independent basis.
CASTRO must have considered himself as being in a
desperate situation. Source said that CASTRO was
dominated by vanity, had megalomaniacal tendencies,
and possessed a compulsion for revenge which was
notorious; on occasion his compulsion caused him to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

- 104 -

reach back as far as twenty years to revenge
actions taken against him at that time. Source
added that in the current situation CASTRO was fully
capable of undertaking an act of desperation, for
example the aerial bombardment of the U.S. or some
gross act against the Soviet Ambassador in Cuba.

GNVA 5006 (OUT 54584) 28 Mar 1963 (TDCSDB 3/653,939)
Filed 68-6-147/4

At the height of the October 62 Cuban crisis, CASTRO
haranged a Soviet commander about the "impossibility"
of permitting U.S. planes to photograph Cuba. The
Soviet succumbed to CASTRO's persuasiveness and took
action which resulted in shooting down a U-2 plane.
The Soviet command was furious and the Soviet officer
was returned to the USSR under arrest.

GNVA 6022 (IN 79271) 12 Dec 63 filed 68-6-147/3
Report that there was no speculation among orbit or
Soviet officials re implications of Johnson's
accession. There was a special alert status ordered
for Cuban Missions as a result of the assassination
of President Kennedy. The alert was still in effect
9 December 1963.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

- 105 -

GNVA 6029 (OUT 65853) 12 Dec 63 (TDCSDB 3/658,469)
Filed 68-6-147/4

Report that circa 2 days after the assassination
of President Kennedy, Cuban dip missions abroad began
to receive a series of messages placing them on a
special alert status. These messages were obviously
due to apprehension by the Cuban Government that the
circumstances surrounding the assassination of
President Kennedy might lead to hostile activity
directed against the missions. They were instructed,
among other things, to be certain that there were
"no compromising documents on the premises."

GNVA 6313 (IN 30483) 2 March 1964 filed 201-9293
Source reported at 29 February meeting that CASTRO
was concerned that Johnson would not follow Kennedy's
course which might have lead to negotiations.
KHRUSHCHEV was convinced that CASTRO's Caribbean
Peace must be strengthened.

/COMMENT: Ref. IG Memo dated 25 April 1967 SECRET
EYES ONLY, Page 112 - Discussion of Assassination at
High-Level Government Meetings. HURWITCH of State,
and McGeorge BUNDY, White House, among others,
attended 10 Aug 62 Special Group (Augmented) meeting
at Dept. of State. Bill Harvey attended with McCone
for CIA. Remember Harvey's Mafia contacts. Also, keep
in mind that Tad SZULC allegedly had access to Hurwitch,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

- 106 -

both President and Attorney General Kennedy, and
McGeorge Bundy. Could he have learned or heard of
the plot and let the word out? McCone recalled that
liquidation of CASTRO, and other regime officials, was
mentioned at JCS op room meeting 8 or 9 August 1962.
It was later determined that McCone's recollection was
probably faulty, that assassination came up for
discussion at the 10 August State meeting.7

AMSWEEP Operation 19-6-69

SW Message #45 from Agent (undated)
Expressed deepest sympathy for death of President
Kennedy. Added that death of Kennedy produced great
nervousness and concern in CASTRO and his close
associates. Further, that there was a great
mobilization of troops throughout the country.

SW Message #14 from AMSWEEP-12 dated 19 Nov 1964
Reported attempt against Fidel CASTRO's life at
odontological building located at 23rd Street;
one of his bodyguards was killed.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

- 107 -

AMTRUNK Operation 19-6-84/1-4

UFGA 11375 dated 30 September 1963

AMLEO-3 (Jose Ricardo RABEL Nunez) defected to the U.S. in December 1962, became a JMWAVE asset, and was used to screen names for the AMTRUNK Operation. His wife reportedly had direct contact with Fidel CASTRO on 7 September 1963 and requested permission for herself and children to join RABEL in the U.S. CASTRO reportedly expressed knowledge that RABEL phoned his wife in Cuba every day. RABEL was terminated in July 1964, reportedly due to conflict with JMWAVE Station for not having exfiltrated his wife and children. He returned to Cuba on his own in 1965, arrested, and set free in July or August 1967. There are two firm accusations that he was a CASTRO agent as early as July 1963. If true, he could have been providing CASTRO information on the AMTRUNK Operation.

UFGA 11829 dated 18 October 1963

Tad SZULC wrote an article on changing trends among high-level personnel within the CASTRO Government, which appeared in a major daily newspaper, and which he told a high-level U.S. Government official was sourced to Dr. MORENO, the AMTRUNK team leader. Debriefing of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

- 108 -

MORENO produced information of considerable variance
to that in the article. He admitting talking to SZULC
but denied that article was based on information he
provided. The article (not in files) created considerable
furor in Washington, D.C. /COMMENT: If true, SZULC'
article(s) could have been used as a channel for
providing information to the Cuban Government, wittingly
or unwittingly.7

WAVE 7300 (IN 58037) dated 9 November 1963

A radio message to the AMTRUNK's in Cuba on 9 November
1963 asked if they had developed any leads into the
higher echelons of the Rebel Army, and who at higher
levels appeared to be good prospects for recruitment.
It cited rumors that persons in top positions of the
army were dissatisfied to the point that they may have
been thinking of plotting against Fidel. / COMMENT:
There is no proof that this information came to the
attention of CASTRO; however, if the AMTRUNK operation
was penetrated, as it appears it might have been,
this information could have reached him.7

WAVE 9630 (IN 87039) dated 25 December 1963

AMTRUNK-9 (Modesto OROZCO) reported in an SW Message
dated 6 November 1963, that during the early part of
November Fidel CASTRO, in the course of a private


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

- 109 -

conversation, expressed fear of the possibility of "Commando Insurrections" which might take place on a large scale in Cuba, as the Cuban economy was such that he could not maintain a state of military alert for a long time. He indicated that any prolonged period of military alert might cause discontent among the troops, a situation which would be dangerous and create irreparable consequences. So as to negate the possibility, CASTRO was undertaking an intensive propaganda campaign to give confidence to his troops and to limit the occurrence of any internal uprising.

MEMORANDUM for the Record by Mike Maney dated 23 Jan 1961

Rufo LOPEZ Fresquet allegedly leaked confidential information re U.S. Government backing of provisional government in Cuba, following invasion, given to him by President Kennedy in strictest confidence.

/COMMENT: Tad SZULC reportedly had a standing invitation for direct contact with President Kennedy, Robert Kennedy and McGeorge Bundy, since November 1961. SZULC reportedly kept abreast of all important AMTRUNK operational developments but took no active part in the operations. SZULC was in touch with George VOLSKY, one of the operations planners, who was in touch with Manuel PINEIRO (DGI) at the time of the missile crisis in 1962.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

Aldo VERA Serafin, then in Miami, formerly with the Department of Technical Investigation (of the DIER - Department of Investigations of the Revolutionary Army), was considered for use in the AMTRUNK Operation. (VERA was assassinated in October 1976 in San Juan, Puerto Rico.) VERA reportedly was receiving financial aid from Santos TRAFFICANTE and the Mafia for arms and ammunition, but there is no indication that such activity was related to the Agency.[^1]

AMTABBY Operation 19-132-30

Part of the net, a major PM operation consisting of numerous sabotage operations against on-island targets, was wrapped up by CASTRO in November 1962. Through captured agents, CASTRO learned that the operations were approved at the highest levels of the U.S. Government and that the major sabotage operations were approved by President Kennedy. The captured agents appeared on TV. The Cubans referred to operation CUPID (true) and to Robert Wall (CI Staff.) /We wonder how the agent knew the operational crypt. The Cubans believed Wall to be a close friend of Robert Kennedy. Mr. Wall said he had never met Kennedy, but that the agent's case officer phoned him once in the agent's presence, and referred to Wall by true name.[^2]

[^1]: .
[^2]: .


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

- 111 -

AMTAUP Operation 19-132-19

SW Message #32 from Agent - Undated

Sent condolences on death of President Kennedy and added that"the traitors rejoiced with the news.

The radios never turned off the happy music. When they learned through the news services the background and history of the assasin they were preoccupied and on the same Friday they placed all troops on alert and also all the doctors were alerted and kept at the hospitals."

AMTHEO Project 19-6-99

SW Message #14 from agent, undated

Reported that "relatives of neighbors of a sub-source in Santiago de Cuba were arrested for being involved in a frustrated plot to kill Fidel when a bomb was found under the floor of the house in which Fidel was to be the guest on the occasion of the celebration of 26th of July."

SW Message #28, undated

Reported that a sub-source confirmed the frustrated assassination of Fidel at the corner of 10th and 23rd Streets (Vedado) in which one of Fidel's bodyguards was killed.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

- 112 -

THIRTIETH OF NOVEMBER GROUP (MRTN) 19-120-37

Specific document not cited

/RESEARCHER COMMENT: "Of interest is the fact that a delegation of MRTN members held a meeting in Dallas, Texas in May 63. They complained about the fact that the U.S. Government was prohibiting further hit and run raids on Cuba and stated that if within 30 days these raids were not allowed to continue, the organization would conduct a protest march to Washington, D.C. Most of the documents in the file are from the FBI.[^1]

2506 BRIGADE 19-300-2

Memo for Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy from
John A. McCone, Director, CIA 25 January 1963

Concerned interrogation of members of 2506 Brigade ransomed and returned to the U.S. in December 1962. One individual interviewed (A 13 310 184) said he was very mad at Mr. Stevenson, Mr. Rusk and Mr. Kennedy, the President of the U.S. for denying needed support. (By this he meant, by air and Naval gunfire).

[^1]: Most of the documents in the file are from the FBI.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

- 113 -

Memo for the Record dated 28 January 1963 by Robert
MORONEY, Office of Security Subj: Roberto PEREZ San Roman
(201-282287)

PEREZ was to speak with HURWITCH of State Department.

PEREZ had a dinner appointment with Robert Kennedy
at Kennedy's Palm Beach home 26 Jan 1963. Kennedy was
to explain in detail plans for future use of the Brigade
which emerged from a high-level meeting Friday 25 January
1963.

WAVE 3068 (IN 45935) dated 8 January 1963

Concerned 5 January 1963 meeting between ZAMKA (Dave
Morales) CIA and Manuel ARTIME for purpose of re-recruiting
ARTIME, debriefing him on brigade activities, and to
provide guidance. RUIZ-Williams reportedly told ARTIME
that Robert Kennedy instructed RUIZ, OLIVA and Jose
PEREZ, not to accept any money from the CRC or CIA;
that Kennedy was setting aside $25,000 dollars from families
committee funds for brigade leadership use for trips,
expenses, etc. WAVE Station had no other information
to confirm or deny this statement by Robt. Kennedy to
RUIZ. WAVE Station commented that within the present
policy framework the CRC could engage in: full spectrum of
prop and political action activities; intell. collection;
military training of officers and enlisted men via
current DOD program; counter-insurgency training;


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

- 114 -

leadership development training, etc. Should USG policy become more aggressive re Cuba, they could also have commando raids on Cuban coast, attacks on Bloc shipping going to or from Cuba, and sabotage operations in Cuba.

WAVE 3103 (IN 46462) dated 8 January 1963
Reported that Brigade leaders asked families committee for $25,000 ops funds which they claimed Robert (PEREZ)
Kennedy indicated to RUIZ Williams and Roberto/SAN ROMAN, should be made available to them through establishment of joint bank account between committee and the Brigade. The families committee turned down the Brigade request but was disturbed that the request was made.

Memo for the Record dated 24 January 1964
Subj: Roberto PEREZ San Roman (201-282287)
In his 23 January meeting with Robert Kennedy, PEREZ remarked that he had discussed Brigade problems, in general, with the writer (Office of Security) whom he apparently identified only as his Agency contact. According to PEREZ, the Attorney General asked for the writer's identity, which PEREZ, who knows the writer only as "Bob", was unable to give. (Was Robert F. Moroney).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

- 115 -

AMWARM Operation,. 19-6-57

SW Message #45 from Agent dated 1 December 1963
Sent condolences on untimely passing of President Kennedy and speculated that CASTRO was not entirely out of the planning if Moscow had anything to do with it, although it could have been one of his (CASTRO's) unpredictable movements which is backfiring.

Radio Message #64 to Agent dated 4 April 1964
Requested any information the agent had picked up on plots against Fidel and others, and identity of those behind the plots.

AMWEE Operation 19-6-68/2-4

WAVE 9577 (IN 35284) dated 6 Oct 1962

AMWEE-1 on Sept. visit to Miami reported that on 11 September Cuban Army trucks delivered large trunks to house [across the street from him] (Nr. 116 Calle 18 Miramar, Havana), at that time occupied by a Chilean technician. From other activities in front of house,

AMNEE-1 concluded that house was being used as LP target probably for the house of Cuban Supreme Court

Chief Luis M. BUCH who lived around the corner [from A-1.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

- 116 -

The Chilean technician threw out a corrugated box
brought there a few days previously by an Army truck
escorted by the G-2. A-1 retrieved the box and noted
it contained the address Acoustic Research, Inc.
Cambridge, Mass. (The Agency checked with the firm and
learned that the firm dealt in manufacture of high
fidelity components for home consumption. Firm official
said if box found its way to Cuba it no doubt was used
for second time and original contents removed).

In Don Heath 22 March 1977 Memo on Miami Station Action
to Aid USG Investigation of Murder of John F. Kennedy,
Heath said [AMWEE-1] reported that on the night of the
day of the Kennedy assassination [A-1] saw Osmani
CIENFUEGOS drive up to the house [across the street] at
about 0100 hours; he stayed several hours. The house
at that time was occupied by an American expatriate
technician who built audio surveillance gear for the
CUIS.

WAVE 2171 (IN 92822) 3 Aug 1963 19-6-68/3 Folder #2

A letter intended for Fidel CASTRO was given to [AMWEE-1]
in Mexico on 2 August. He was to mail it within a day
or two after return to Cuba on 2 August.

WAVE 2286 (IN 95047) 7 Aug 1963 19-6-68/3 Folder #2

[AMWEE-1] was given letter on 2 August for wife of
AMLEO-3, returned to Cuba that day, and was instructed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

- 117 -

to deliver the letter to her soonest. Included in
the letter was the name of the Mexican Ambassador
in Cuba given as an emergency contact for wife of
AMLEO-3./COMMENT: If AMLEO-3 was an agent of
CASTRO, as suspected, this information could have
fallen into the hands of CASTRO.7

WAVE 3331 (IN 06371) dated 23 Aug 1963 19-6-68/3 Folder #2
/
States that DIRECTOR 63497 instructed [AMWEE-1] not to use
W/T set except for urgent messages such as report on
Fidel CASTRO's death and related momentous developments.
We purposely did not tell (A-1) that his radio reportedly
was blown.

DIRECTOR 72045 from Hqs. to WAVE 30 Sept 63 filed
19-6-68/3 Folder #2

Para 2 states "see CASTRO reference in 28 September
speech to money caches."

WAVE 2329 (IN 81847) dated 26 Sept 1964 filed W/T Chrono
19-6-68/3 Vol. #3

[AMWEE-1] message #2. ["My government (Italian) has
intervened violently re imprisonment of Vasco CECCHI,
Italian citizen who owned Montecatini Restaurant,
Havana. Requests immediate release or else will take
severe measures.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

13-00000

- 118 -

WAVE 8316 (IN 70529) dated 30 Nov 1963 19-6-68/3 Folder #4

Para 1 gave translation of WAVE 8279 (IN 69695) Mge. 45 from AMWEE-1 to Case Officer: "Our condolences on death President. MAURI (Mario MAURI, Italian diplomat) reports on 22 Nov the Cubana aircraft delayed its departure five hours from 1700 to 2200 waiting for an important passenger who arrived Mexico City Airport in private twin motor aircraft at 2130 hours Mexi time transferring directly from his plane to the Cubana plane without going through customs or immigration. Travelled in pilot's cabin. MAURI returned on same aircraft to Cuba. I shall come out 29 Nov but do not know whether I can stay. Best that you come to the airport that day. Here there is great movement of troops toward Pinar del Rio." /COMMENT: See AOCOVE Operation
M
Memo, AMCOVE-1 SW Mge #71, dated 10 Dec 63. A-1 reported that Mario MAURI flew from Mexico to Havana on 23 November.

AMWEE-1 Production Folder #6 Oct 63 thru May 65: 19-6-68/4

There is nothing between 24 Oct 63 and 4 Dec 63 (void).

WAVE 8100 (IN 67217) 23 Nov 63 contains no requirements

to AMWEE-1 re assassination, nor do subsequent messages through 30 December 63.


Утс


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

- 119 -

[AMWEE-1] SW Chrono 14 Jan 63 thru 20 Apr 65 Folder #9

19-6-68/3

There are no messages between SW #119 dated 12 Nov 63, received Miami 20 Nov 63, and SW #124 dated 15 Apr 1964, received Miami 20 April 1964. Four messages are missing from this file.

Message to Agent (IN 04498) dated 12 June 64

Asked if agent had learned the name of the young man in peasant clothes who rides Cubana plane to Mexico and back every Friday.

Message from Agent (IN 81847) dated 26 Sept 64

States that Vasco CECCHI was arrested "some months ago" and charged with dollar dealings and being part of a plot against CASTRO.7

[AMWEE-1] Operational File 19-6-68/3 Vol. #4

Memo dated 4 November 1964

Shows that 8 names gleaned from the "Warren Commission documents" were checked in WH/SA/IOS (Cuba Desk) files with negative results. Reports traces attached.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

- 120 -

AMWORLD Operation 19-124-27

Memo for the Record by Henry Hecksher, 10 July 1963

Washington, D.C. Meeting with ARTIME (BOX 18)

ARTIME related events prior to the Bay of Pigs invasion. Manuel RAY had just arrived in the U.S. from Cuba. He enjoyed strong Department of State support. It was his intent to get the U.S. to withdraw support from the FRD and to obtain control over the training camps himself. VARONA's and CARILLO's intention was to see the FRD go down. Hecksher said he masterminded RAY's defeat and RAY knew it.

Memo by Henry D. Hecksher on AMWORLD Meeting in

Washington 7 to 10 Nov 1963 Subj: Dr. La Saga (BOX 18)

LaSaga was the MRR delegate in the U.S. while ARTIME was imprisoned in Cuba (following the Bay of Pigs invasion.) ARTIME demoted LaSaga. LaSaga described by Hecksher as one of the most intelligent men he had ever met. It was LaSaga's firm position that while President Kennedy was in power it would be impossible to defeat CASTRO.

WAVE 6925 (IN 89430) dated 23 May 1964

Concerns Tad SZULC' articles in the New York Times 19, 20 and 21 May which AMCARBON-1 believes were fabricated and violated newsbeat agreement he had with AMCARBON-1.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

- 121 -

Memo for Chief, Special Affairs Staff, by Henry Hecksher dated 3 September 1963 19-124-27/3 (Box 28)

A Tad SZULC article in a special to *The New York Times* datelined Key West, 1 Sept (1963) quotes "the judgement of authoritative quarters in Cuba" that Washington tolerance of small refugee groups that are identified with political factions objectionable to most Cubans, specifically the groups that apparently operate from Nicaragua and are identified with ARTIME, works against the emergence of meaningful opposition. /Hecksher comment: I wonder who is actually behind what looks to me like a concerted denigration campaign?7

DBA 42843 dated 3 June 1963 (FBI) 19-124-27 (Box 29)

From interview of Santiago ALVAREZ Rodriguez on 23 May 1963 and information from his contact in April 1963 with attorney Paulino A. SIERRA. SIERRA planned to go to Miami, from Chicago, to help establish a unity movement among Cuban political groups. SIERRA wanted ALVAREZ to meet an American arriving in Miami from Chicago (name unknown) who claimed to have $30,000,000. available to donate to Cuban exiles to establish unity and provisional government in exile. The American said the money would be given on condition that the unity would be established, and that the group he represented would


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

13-00000

SECRETYCESSIVE
- 122 -

be given certain concessions in Cuba in the future. The
American claimed he did not represent the U.S. Government
but had good contacts with the government. It was not
known what he meant by the term concessions - whether
that was with reference to gambling concessions, business
franchises or possible business contracts with the
Cuban Government. ALVAREZ concluded that the American
was completely unreliable. The American was described
as white, male, about 45 years old, 5 ft. 10 inches,
180 lbs., well-dressed, businessman type who spoke a
little Spanish and obviously had been in Havana at one
time. The American indicated that he was from Chicago.

WAVE 1013 (IN 78067) dated 11 July 1963 (Box 29)
Concerns activities of Cuban Committee for Liberation
(CCL) sparked by Guillermo ALONSO Pujol 21 May 1963.
(Agency learned from DGI defector SLIPSTREAM-1 in Nov 71
that ALONSO was a Cuban intelligence agent.) Cable
goes on to state that Enrique RUIZ Williams had apparently
been inactive, at least in Miami circles, since denying
via local press on 22 May that he was hand-picked by
Attorney General Kennedy to unify anti-Castro exiles.

CSDB 3/656,611 dated 13 September 1963 (Box 29)
Indicates that SIERRA's actions relating to Cuba
Committee for Liberation would lead to chaos and anarchy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

13-00000

- 123 -

At a meeting 20 Aug 1963 members of the group decided to report SIERRA's irregularities to the group's financiers in Chicago. Calls were made to Chicago to VANDERBILT (fnu) and Dillon BRADEN.

WAVE 8562 (IN 74653) dated 5 Dec 1963 (Box 29)

Reports that PRIO's declarations wherein he accused the U.S. Government of agreement with Russia to replace CASTRO with Tito-type government originated with Guillermo ALONSO Pujol in Washington. It was received by PRIO through Guillermo BELT. Pujol has friendly relations with certain members diplomatic circle Washington and thinks he is well informed although he lives in Europe. Guillermo MARQUEZ, publisher of New York weekly Ahora and Carlos MARQUEZ Sterling are both part of PRIO's plan and allegedly have become associated with Richard NIXON in accordance with Republican Party plan to bring up Cuban case before the elections.

WAVE 8563 (IN 84654) dated 6 Dec 1963 (Box 29)

Information from Francisco CHAO Hermida, who attended 10 Nov 63 meeting with Miguel A. "Cuco" LEON - involved PLAN JUDAS. LEON told CHAO that while in Wash., D.C., he met with Enrique RUIZ Williams. RUIZ informed him that he (RUIZ) was to lead new Cuban republic and had been so named by Robert Kennedy who had gone to New York to interview him. Kennedy allegedly said that RUIZ could


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 133

- 124 -

work with any or every sector he wished but important
point was that RUIZ was to be the boss.

Memo for the Record by Alfonso RODRIGUEZ dated
23 June 1964 re Telecon with Tad SZULC (Box 29)
SZULC stated that the detention of RAY was due to
"double" nature of U.S. policy; meaning by that that
the U.S. Government was anxious to depose Fidel CASTRO,
but would not permit anyone to act against Cuba.
RODRIGUEZ pointed out to SZULC that RAY as well as
"all of the other fellows" have been constantly
reminded that they cannot use U.S. territory as a
base but apparently they have got to lose all of their
assets before they realize that this is a serious policy.

AMWREN Operation 19-6-51/1-4

AMWREN-1 Report dated 5 February 1962 19-6-51/4
Report that during a speech on 4 February 1962 Fidel
stopped reading the text prepared by the Communist
Party and, on his own, referred to Kennedy as "impudent".
He tried to separate himself from the text and continue
on his own, but was brought back in line by Carlos
Rafael RODRIGUEZ and Anibal ESCALANTE.
On 1 February 1962 AMTURVY-1 reported that Rolando
CUBELA and other prominent government figures were
under arrest in La Cabana Fortress and were kept


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 134

- 125 -

separated from the other prisoners.

AMYUM Operation 19-132-32

UFGA 8466 dated 12 April 1963 19-132-32

Transmitted intelligence debriefing reports on Operation
FINA exfiltrees. Debriefing of Caridad MACIAS Rodriguez.
On 26 July 1961 MACIAS was involved in an action to kill
Fidel CASTRO at the 26th of July ceremony at the Plaza
Civic. The action was to kill Fidel CASTRO by firing
a bazooka shell at the speaker's platform. This action
failed because of a defective firing device on the
bazooka. The G-2 had had persons involved, working in
resistance, under surevillance for some time. MACIAS
was connected with the MRR. A G-2 interrogator said that
the Cuban security forces knew everything that was going
on in the resistance movement. They permitted these
resistance organizations to organize and exist until
it was decided to roll up the group. She seemed to be
connected with AMBRONC-5 (a CIA on-island asset) who
was arrested and executed the latter part of August 1962.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 135

# ATTACHMENT B

List of Task Force Participants


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 136

LAD/JFK Task Force Participants

William Sturbitts Task Force Supervisor
Chris Hopkins Group leader
Jane Zerance Researcher and Administrative back-up
to Ms. Hopkins. Served from mid-Oct
1976 to mid-February 1977.

Felipe Acevedo Researcher and Translator
Served from mid-October 1976 to
mid-February 1977.

Kathleen Blevins Researcher and Translator
Served from mid-October 1976 to
mid-February 1977.

Taylor (Mike) Belcher Researcher (Strong along CI lines)
Served from mid-October 1976 to
January 1977, prior to PCS assignment.

Daryl Geisler Researcher
Served from mid-October 1976 to
mid-November 1976. (Part-time due
to personal tragedy).

Martin Miller Researcher
Served approximately 3 weeks from
January to mid-February 1977.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 137

SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 2 -

Barbara Boyle

Researcher

Served approximately three weeks from January to mid-February 1977.

Alva King

Researcher

Served approximately 2 weeks in February 1977.

Howard Brubaker

Researcher

Served approximately 2 weeks in February 1977.

Annie Goodpasture

Recalled from retirement by the IG Staff.
Served with LAD Task Force from mid-March to mid-May 1977. See following paragraph on Ms. Goodpasture.
Based on her long tenure at the Mexico City Station which spanned the critical period, September to November 1963, Ms. Goodpasture was recalled by the IG Staff in February 1977 to answer numerous questions which focused primarily on Mexico City Station activities. The IG Staff has written a statement regarding Ms. Goodpasture's review of the Mexico City Station files. After assisting the IG Staff, Ms. Goodpasture then joined the LAD Task Force from mid-March to mid-May 1977. Her contribution during that period consisted primarily of the following:
a) Recall, review and translation from Spanish to English (when not provided) of microfilm of Mexico City Station

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 138

SECRET/SENSITIVE

- 3 -

teltap take against the Soviet Embassy during the period September
through November 1963, to determine a possible Soviet link with
OSWALD.

b) Preparation of report on Cubana flights and flights
from Mexico City to Havana based on research and translations by
other members of the Task Force.

c) Preparation of report on Gilberto Policarpo Lopez
based on research and findings by other LAD Task Force members.

d) Reviewed at Headquarters and Warrenton photo coverage
of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City for pictures of the
"unidentified man."

e) Reviewed 8 boxes of policy material for possible
findings.

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 139

13-00000

TS (CODE WORD) ANNEX
TO ATTACHMENT "A"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 140

# ROUTING

| TO:         | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE           | INITIALS |
| ----------- | ---------------- | -------------- | -------- |
| 1           |                  |                |          |
| 2           |                  |                |          |
| 3           |                  |                |          |
| 4           |                  |                |          |
| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY     | PREPARE REPLY  |          |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH         | RECOMMENDATION |          |
| COMMENT     | FILE             | RETURN         |          |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION      | SIGNATURE      |          |

REMARKS:


FROM: NAME, ADDRESS, AND PHONE NO. DATE



Handle Via

COMINT

Channels

Access to this document will be restricted to those approved for the following specific activities:

![warning notice image]

Warning Notice

Sensitive Intelligence Sources and Methods Involved

NATIONAL SECURITY INFORMATION

Unauthorized Disclosure Subject to Criminal Sanctions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 141

13-00000 SC-01755-77A

# TOP SECRET UMBRA

ZRKNICK Operation 200-5-38 (FBI Monitoring of Cuban Espionage Net in Miami, International in Scope)

BOX I - Non-CS Documents Filed AMAPOLA (Juan AMESTOY Folder)

On 8 April 1963 the FBI intercepted an SW message from ZRKNICK agent in Miami to CUIS Headquarters in Havana. Said Juan ARMESTOY /should read AMESTOY; was CIA agent/ told ZRKNICK agent about a trip he planned to Cuba with other Cubans. That an internal uprising was being prepared and six men, four Cubans and two foreigners, had already arrived in Cuba to assassinate Fidel. "Ricardo CABRERA told RIN last night that from now until December 63 many things are expected in Cuba and that the American Government will take advantage of the opportunity of the attack on the Russian boat to control the gusanos (worms) who work on their own and then in the work of CIA in its job of infiltration. ARMESTOY says that they always take an American with them and it is he who gives the orders and communicates by radio with the airplanes which explore the route. ARMESTOY took eleven thousand five hundred pesos to Cuba. Be careful. Regards." /COMMENT: ZRKNICK at request of CUIS Havana, continued to report on AMESTOY. AMESTOY was later arrested and killed in a gun battle or executed by the Cuban Government. [^7]

[^7]: TOP SECRET UMBRA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 142

SC-01755-77A

CSCI 3/776,625 Dated 19 June 1963 Memo to FBI from CIA

Subject: Ricardo CABRERA Amoedo

Attached memo dated 30 April 1963 states that Ricardo CABRERA Amoedo aka "Cayo" who lived in the U.S., returned to Cuba when CASTRO assumed power in January 1959, returned to Miami in 1960 as an active G-2 member and continued to work as an informer for CUIS. During 1960 he went to Cuba and had an interview with VALDES, Fidel CASTRO, NARANJO and Juan ORTA, then secretary to Fidel. In Miami CABRERA worked for the G-2, together with PIMENTAL (fnu) and Pepe NOVA, who were chiefs of G-2 in Miami. Was a man who would sell his mother. Became an American citizen and used to brag about being a member of CIA.

VOLUME II (Box I) Summary of Relations with FBI

On 15 March 1963 the FBI'S ZRKNICK supervisor met with CIA personnel for discussion of the case and promised to keep CIA Headquarters informed of all developments. The FBI provided text of SW message from AMAPOLA letter drop indicating travel of one Evaristo FERNANDEZ to Costa Rica in connection with some kind of operation. CIA sent the information immediately to Costa Rica in view of President's trip.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 143

3

VOLUME II (Box I) Memo from FBI to CIA dated 12 Aug 1963

Memo attached text of intercepted message; although in code, deciphered, it said the following: "Antonio ROJAS told me the following. CIA is still recruiting people but they are warned before hand that they have to accept Huber MATOS as their leader. My friend, Luisito AQUIAR, who was second in command to Tom DIQUE, was recruited and he will soon be sent to Cuba. RID told me the following: my prison mate Ernesto SANTANA, was also recruited a few days ago and sent by CIA and transferred to another place for his preparation. Tony, no good, and I believe the attempt (on the life) of the horse would be more effective, tell us how the check-out is going."

Memorandum for Chief of Station, Mexico dated 3 Sept 1963

(Box I) TOP SECRET DINAR

Page 5 para 7 A states that AMAPOLA / crypt for CUIS7 with outstation located in the Miami area, has for its main objective the penetration of CIA and exile organizations directed against Cuba. One important agent, possibly the P/A/Jose CARBONNEL Marrero has been identified by the FBI and is a naturalized U.S. citizen of Cuban birth. The FBI is currently reading his S/W messages, and CIA is interrogating a WAVE asset (?) who has an unexplained connection with the agent. Another WAVE asset (name unknown) who has had contact with the agent


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 144

SC-01755-77A

has been interrogated and found to be clean. A third WAVE asset (identity unknown) in contact with the agent, has been turned over to the FBI for possible use against the agent."

VOLUME III (Box I) Intercepted Message from Cuba to Agent in Miami, Dated 24 Nov 1963 TOP SECRET DINAR

Asked following questions:

1.  Whether there is concentration of the Yankee Army.
2.  Whether there is a concentration of mercenaries.
3.  Whether there is an increase in pressure on those sympathetic to Cuba and the left.
4.  Whether active counter-revolutionaries are disappearing.
5.  To inform fully via CANDI (CUIS clandestine drop in Mexico City) the reaction of the Gusanos and the Republicans to the death of Kennedy.

VOLUME III (Box I) Memo for Chief, JMWAVE from SAS/CI

Dated 11 March 1964 - TOP SECRET DINAR

Memo attached copies of ZRKNICK intercepts provided CIA by the FBI:

25 Dec 63 plain text letter (translated from Spanish to English) to Irma SUAREZ in Cuba. Para 6 states "I will tell you about Kennedy's death in the other letter when I am in New Jersey. All that is a ?."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 145

5
TOP SECRET UMRDA
SC-01755-77A

30 Dec 63 letter from Miami to Irma in Cuba. Para 3
states "Irma, I certainly did not forget those medicines
you asked me for. I was very sure that they would give
them to you and that you would be able to go to Camaguey
to see Pepe."

VOLUME IV - FBI Summaries TOP SECRET DINAR (Box 1)

Letter to Irma SUAREZ in Cuba from H. DIAZ in Miami,
dated 17 Oct 63. Second para. of SW text states "Irma,
do not bother asking Manolo GARCIA about the letters which
he has sent me, since I turned them over to CONTE AGUERO
and he has read them." /COMMENT: This appears to be
Luis CONTE Aguero, a former JMWAVE Station asset
terminated in 1969. His file indicates that he is (was)
a suspected CASTRO agent. He reportedly got the Cuban
vote for President-elect Carter and was in Wash., D.C.
in December 1976 with the Carter transition team.[^1]

BOX 2 - "NOE" FOLDER - TOP SECRET DINAR

25 November 1963 intercept of message from Cuba to agent
in Miami. "In view of the assassination attempt in the
U.S., report the reaction in that city, commentaries
in government circles, right and left. Report change,
accelleration, or maneuvers of any kind with regard to
the aggression plan against Cuba."

TOP SECRET UMDRA

[^1]: 7.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 146

TOP SECRET UMBRA SC-01755-77A

SJOS 6429 (IN 68164) Dated 26 November 63 (BOX 2)

Cable from San Jose to Headquarters. "Costa Rican
Deputy Julio SUNOL Leal (ZRKNICK suspect, Communist
fellow traveller and pro-CASTRO propagandist) planned
depart 24 Nov to attend Peace Conference in Poland.
Delayed departure and now planning leave San Jose
by air for Poland 26 Nov. Plans stop en route in Texas
repeat Texas. Then will travel on to Poland. Station
suspected SUNOL will attempt gather data in Texas for use
in pro-Communist CASTRO propaganda re assassination
Kennedy. SUNOL travelling with dip. passport."

MEXI 7085 (IN 68561) Dated 27 November 1963

Cable to Headquarters from Mexico City. "Subject arrived
Mexico Taca Flt. 772 1600 26 Nov. Leaving KLM F1t. 684
for Amsterdam 27 Nov. Flt. stops Houston and Montreal
en route."

HZPA 13,960 Dated 3 December 1963 (BOX 4)

Dispatch from Panama City to Headquarters. At 22
Nov 63 Esterline-HYSAGE-1 (Thelma King) meeting, news
was received of President Kennedy's death. This had
a profound effect on H-1. Her first reaction was that
it must have been done by racial extremists and she
spent a considerable time extolling the virtues of
President Kennedy, and what he had been trying to do.

At the 27 Nov 63 Esterline-HYSAGE-1 meeting, H-1

TOP SECRET UMBRA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 147

13-00000

SC-01755-77A

made quite a point of saying that she was absolutely
positive that Fidel CASTRO could have had nothing to
do with the act.

(BOX 10) TOP SECRET DINAR - Intercepted Message from Cuba
to Agent in Miami dated 27 Oct 1962

Stated "Principal objective is the physical elimination
of counter-revolutionary scum and the destruction of their
centers. The less important ones you can beat up and
request their expulsion from the country. Keep the
material secured from the Yankee Embassy in a safe place
until receipt of further instructions."

(BOX 10) PAMELA Folder - Periodic Activity Report

Presumably dated December 1963

PAMELA Folder (CUIS agent). "In addition to the regular
bi-weekly schedules held on 10 and 24 November, a special
schedule was held on 29 November, as was done in the case
of AMAPOLA (CARBONNEL). Among various matters dealt with
in the message transmitted on 10 November, one in particular
was of high interest. This was the request for a man
to be chosen to handle commo in cases of emergency inasmuch
as it would be more difficult to accomplish this as "the
struggle worsens." An exhaustive report on all aspects of
counter-revolutionary groups and activities was also
requested of the agent." On 24 Nov 63, as in the case of
AMAPOLA, a special code was set up to enable "A--CH
(illegible) to report by cable directly to drops in Cuba


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 148

SC-01755-77A

on the situation in Puerto Rico after the assassination of President Kennedy. SANTOS, the agent who actually receives all messages transmitted to PAMELA was to contact AB--N (illegible) and have him report on the development of any of the following situations:
a. if a contingent of gusano (worm) Cubans has arrived there;
b. if mobilization of resident gusano Cubans is noticed;
c. if mobilization of U.S. forces is noticed;
d. if the Cubans who arrived and those who were there before have "developed circulation;"
e. if activities of repressive organs against popular forces have increased.

A special transmission was scheduled for the following Thursday at the same time. As there were no adverse developments in the situation after the President's death, this subject was not dealt with in the special transmission made on 29 Nov (1963).

(BOX 10) SEPIO File

The "SEPIO" file contains a letter from MENENDEZ in France to Oliva LOPEZ, Mexico. /COMMENT: believe letter may have been written by the MANENDEZ who wrote letter to a Bernardo MORALES in Miami 27 Nov 62, discussing plans for assassination of President Kennedy. See MENENDEZ shadow file./


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 149

9
TOP SECRET UMBRA
SC-01755-77A
(BOX 10) "ROBERTO Folder" Periodic Activity Report
Dated (presumably) December 1963

On 25 November (63) the agent was asked to report on the reaction of the assassination of President Kennedy by governmental right-wing and left-wing circles. The agent (Roberto) was also asked to report on the status of plans of aggression against Cuba:

(BOX 10) Memo to Chief of Station, JMWAVE from C/SAS/CI
Dated 6 December 1963

Cites memos of 22 and 29 November 63 attached (which are not attached to document). 22 Nov 63 memo reportedly included an intercepted SW message which mentioned one Ricardo IRURETA Goyena who worked at the Hotel Fontainebleau in Miami. The 29 November 63 memo reportedly contained an intercepted SW message, a letter addressed to Irma SUAREZ in Cuba in both open text and in secret writing, and another letter which apparently was intended for Manolo GARCIA, also both in open text and secret writing.

ZRKNICK Unnumbered Box - VOL. III
PACY 1073 (IN 48464) dated 26 October 1963

Cable from Panama City to Headquarters. "Hope you understand that PONCHAY (Jake Esterline) and Station CI group as dissatisfied with unresolved aspects HYSAGE Ops. as is Hqs. Do not, however, at this point, see spectre


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 150

# TOP SECRET UMBRA

SC-01755-77A

of Soviets or massive provocation efforts directed by
Soviets and/or CASTRO in progress. /COMMENT: PONCHAY
was in touch with HYSAGE-1 (Thelma King), a Panamanian
left-wing politician, pro-Castro Deputy to National
Assembly, and personal friend of Fidel CASTRO. Recruited
by Fidel Aug 62 to perform espionage mission in Panama.7

MEXI 6969 (IN 64256) Dated 19 Nov 63 (VOL. III)
Cable from Mexico to Hqs. "16 Nov. LICOOKY-1 with
LINLUCK-1 visited Maj. Alfonso PRERA Sierra, employed by
Francisco "Paco" AMADO at Maquinas Coloso. "Paco" still
involved Guatemala guerrilla ops and receives money from
Cubans to pass to Guats. "Paco's" wife says "Paco"
now in U.S. but Alfonso thinks he either in Guatemala or
Cuba. Alfonso's brother Enrique still firmly pro-Cuban."

DIRECTOR 84449 Dated 21 November 1963 (VOL. III)
Cable from Hqs. to WAVE. "Hqs. has sensitive information
indicating that Cuban Intelligence Service is targetting
against person employed in State Dept. office in Miami.
(Matter discussed with the FBI.)

DIRECTOR 84791 Dated 22 November 1963 (VOL. III)
Cable from Headquarters to Panama City. "HYSAGE-2
Victor Augusto NAVAS-King turned plane ticket over to
"MEDINA" on 22 Nov. Ticket expires 7 Dec 63. Has decided
remain U.S. over Xmas holidays. Wants to raise grade at

# TOP SECRET UMBRA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 151

# TOP SECRET UMBRA
SC-01755-77A

Georgetown (University). Was much affected by death of President and did not want to talk much.

DIRECTOR 85343 Dated 27 November 1963 (VOL. III)

Cable from Hqs. to WAVE and Panama City. "Hqs. suspects Blanca Alicia FRANCO may be spearhead of penetration of AMOT/CIA ops on behalf ZRKNICK complex. AMOTS/JMWAVE Station Ops.7 in direct contact with FRANCO. FRANCO, suspect Cuban agent, in contact with AMOT-110. (Norberto Felipe MARTINĚZ Garcia)

HDCA 3405 Dated 29 November 1963 (VOL. III)

Dispatch from Santo Domingo to Hqs.concerning one Eduardo TAVARES Justo. TAVARES queried EMGLUE-1 ( ) on 2 Oct 63 about his experiences in the U.S. but did not give any indication that he was going there. On 9 Oct. five days after TAVARES departure, EMGLUE-1 reported that TAVARES had not gone to Canada as planned, but to New York. On 22 Nov 63 EMGLUE-1 reported that as of 17 Nov TAVARES was still in New York. E-1 believed TAVARES a Communist, or at least has Communist ideas.

HMMA 22632 Dated 18 December 1963 (VOL. III)

Dispatch from Mexico City to Hqs. "On 21 Nov 63 LICOOKY-1 obtained following info re Francisco AMADO. For past year AMADO has continued to receive visits from emissaries of Fidel CASTRO and to make mysterious trips. On each occasion (sic) AMADO receives money for various expenditures.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 152

SC-01755-77A

Right after receiving these visitors and the money, AMADO goes on trips. AMADO was in Cuba for a while last year. He may be working for the Govt of Cuba in intelligence work. AMADO's wife was educated in the U.S. She has friends in Washington and also at the U.S. Embassy in Mexico. As of this date, AMADO has been outside Mexico for some time. His wife explains that he is in the U.S. Last year when AMADO went to Guatemala, taking funds from CASTRO for the guerrillas, he applied for membership in the Guatemalan Communist Party. He has CASTRO's confidence and performs services for the Communists."

DIRECTOR 90507 Dated 20 December 1963 VOL. III)
Cable from Hqs. to Panama City and Bern. "Appears likely someone may have used HYSAGE-1 ticket. Can Panama City identify? Was HYSAGE-1 in Panama 4-17 Dec?

DBA 57414 (FBI) Dated 21 November 1963 100-5-14 (VOL. IV)
Page 11, para 3, mentions a Manolo GARCIA who had in his possession driver's license in name Manolo RODRIGUEZ. /This Manolo RODRIGUEZ may be iden/ with one Manuel RODRIGUEZ Seoane (201-920072) Cuban DSE officer in 1964 responsible for recruiting Emilio ECHARTE Pedroso. ECHARTE's mission was to enter the U.S. for the purpose of assassinating Cuban exile, Manolo RAY. DIRECTOR 501359, 15 Jan 747.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 153

TOP SECRET UMBRA.
SC-01755-77A

ZRKNICK Continued

PACY 4074 (IN 30576) dated 17 July 1964 (Vol. VII)

Cable from Panama City to Hqs. "Station will do everything possible to get additional answers and clarification from HYSAGE-1. If H-1 trying to divert attention from more important target or activity any of the following possibilities may be considered:

c. H-1 may be involved in or aware of impending action. Perhaps a golpe de Estado (coup d'etat) or assassination, and is trying detract attention from persons actually involved."

BOGO 4761 (IN 41774 dated 3 August 1964 (Vol. VII)

Cable from Bogota to Hqs. "On 28 July 64 a State Dept. officer received information that there was a pro-CASTRO group in the Civil Aeronautics Administration and names Alvaro REYES Nieto as a member of the group. REYES, a Colombian, is a radio technician, now in Wash., D.C. area on ODWIFE (International Corporation Administration) training grant. Hernando REYES Nieto, believed to be Alvaro's brother, reportedly travelled to Cuba via Mexico in January 1962. CSDB 3/654,557 lists him as architect in employ of the Cuban Government."

HHTW 1721 dated 15 October 1964 (Vol. VIII)

Dispatch from Hqs. to Tegucigalpa. "When President Kennedy died, Augusto (DGI) directed officers in National Liberation Bldg., to prepare radio communication using


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 154

14

SC-01755-77A

TOP SECRET UMBRA

song "Three Beautiful Cubans" or "Six Beautiful
Cubans," which could be transmitted by Radio Havana,
Cuba and be used to send easily understood ciphered
messages. AMMUG-1 (DGI defector) believed that Norberto
HERNANDEZ Curbelo (DGI) officer chose the musical
recording. Augusto is believed to be iden/with Carlos
Sixto CHAIN Soler, Deputy to Manuel PINEIRO, Chief of
the DGI.

TOP SECRET UMBRA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 155

# ATTACHMENT C

Outline of the Complete LAD/JFK Task Force Files

and Description of Their Contents.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 156

SECRET/SENSITIVE

LAD (Cuba) Task Force to Investigate

Assassination of President Kennedy

019-604-001

Vol. I Administrative - Background Working Papers

Vol. II Administrative - Background Working Papers

Vol. III Administrative - Background Working Papers

Vol. IV Press Clippings

Vol. V Interagency Memoranda

Vol. VI Interagency Memoranda

Vol. VII Terms of Reference - Folders 1 thru 34 Cuba/Mexico

Vol. VIII Interim Report on AMTRUNK Operation and Operation to Split Castro Regime

Vol. IX Memoranda (Draft) - Operational and Subject › Files Negative Findings A thru H

Vol. X Memoranda (Draft) - Operational and Subject Files Negative Findings I thru Z

Vol. XI Memoranda with Findings Attached A and B

Vol. XII Memoranda with Findings Attached C

Vol. XIII Memoranda with Findings Attached D thru J

Vol. XIV Memoranda with Findings Attached K

Vol. XV Memoranda with Findings Attached L

Vol. XVI Memoranda with Findings Attached M and Mc

Vol. XVII Memoranda with Findings Attached N thru R

Vol. XVIII Memoranda with Findings Attached S thru V

Vol. XIX Memoranda with Findings Attached W thru Z

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 157

SECRET/SENSITIVE

Vol. XX Memoranda on Personalities Checked - A thru N

Vol. XXI Memoranda on Personalities Checked - O thru Z

Vol. XXII Final Report - How Research was Conducted -

Chronology of Findings

List of Participants

Outline of LAD/JFK Official Files

SECRET/SENSITIVE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)