# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

Former Contacte viivana Station

able personal courage, good security and common sense. In my mind he is the ideal type of Latin American agent. It will be a real loss to the Agency if we lose sight or contact with adolfo. I have zet few men more dedicated and more loyal.

5. Ramon USATEGUI LEZALA. AMFAN-3. Recruited by *PAW-2* and so close to each other that we referred to them as the "Gold Dust Twins." Ramon me in the shipping business in Havana and eventually had to leave. He lost his hore, cars, furnishings, etc. His : 16 now planning to send nim to Nicaragua, and i rave recommended him to the Nicaragua desk [Dr. Trenta]. He has all the qualities ascribed to Adolfo SAN FELAYO (see above) except that he has rever been an Azerican citizen. He speaks excellent English. He is cedicated, courageous and most anxious to caintain contact with the Agency. It will be our los8 if this is not done.

6. Bernard L. Barker. AMCLATTER-1. Wife: Clare. Barker is a Cubau-Azerican. Ex-Captain in the U.S.A.P. See PRQ end 201 for full bio data. I recruited Barker in 1959, and he served feithfully until had to exfiltrate hir sometime in 1960. He recrusted a number of valuable agents for the Station (including AMCLATTik-s, which see) and bad an amasing encyclopedic knowledge of Cuban persons, events and con-facts in all walks of life. Be vas a boxing ranager and know immimately. all Cuban personalities engaged in the sporting industry. He had a puppy-dog loyalty to his case officers and to the Agency. His biggest weakness was his lack of discretion. He was such a loyal American (actually if not technically) that he would fight at the irop of a hat if anyone cast aspersions on the United States or its leaders. In the atmosphere of Castro's Cuba I might say that that was quite often. reare to the process of helping him recover his lost American citizenship. When the Station reopens I would certainly recommend that w continue to maintain contact with Earker. If nothing eine he would make a wonderful leg-mat for the Chief of Station, his wife is an attractive Cuken zal who is bi-lingual and an belligerently inertion as he 13. fare:

by language, could pass either as an American or a unas - a genuine asset if he could be taught to submerge his americanim

7. Manolo VEGA Abril. I ret Manolo through Jorge ALONSO PTOL (Dow a prisoner in Cuba as a result of the 17th of April invasion). Manolo is working for us now in Piami, and I presume we have full bis date on him. Nanclo's family owned, along with Repurite Steel, the steel plant in Havana which was nationalized by the Ceatro regime (Cia. Antillaan de Acero, 3.A.). Manolo as a brother, best d' would also be worth cultivating. Through his business and family corrections Vanolo knew a great malij peupίe of onerational interact. Inc of bi Iriendo was David GALVADOR, although Manolo did not mare SALVADOR political thinking (extreme left and anti-Aerican),

objective a reporter as I have ever encountered asong Let'


SECRET

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)