2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MESSAGES ARE CONSIDERED ROUTINE UNLESS A HIGHER PRECEDENCE IS INDICATED IN ADDRESS LINE.
DO NOT EXCEED 69 TYPEWRITTEN CHARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES.

# RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: GK:RO:sh
UNIT: CI/Special Operations
EXT:: 5847
DATE: 18 April 1970

SECRET DO NOT REPRODUCE

Copy of

RETURN TO CIA

# SECRET

CITE HEADQUARTERS 984

TO DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

ATTN: MR. FRED J. 13 2 APR 70

FROM: DIRECTOR, CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

CACTUS

SUBJECT: AUSTRALIAN VIETNAM MORATORIUM CAMPAIGN

1. WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED BY THE (AUSTRALIAN SERVICE) THAT WILLIAM RICHARD LESLIE, AUSTRALIAN DELEGATE TO THE FIFTH STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE ON VIETNAM HAS ANNOUNCED THAT THE FOLLOWING FOREIGNERS HAVE BEEN INVITED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE AUSTRALIAN VIETNAM MORATORIUM CAMPAIGN AND HAVE EITHER ACCEPTED OR ARE CONSIDERING ACCEPTANCE:

A. PASTOR MARTIN NIEMOLLER (COMMENT: WEST GERMAN VICE PRESIDENT OF WAR RESISTERS INTERNATIONAL.)

B. MRS. NANCY RUBIN, WIFE OF JERRY RUBIN.

C. MRS. CORETTA KING

D. MR. DICK GREGORY.

2. INCIDENTAL TO THIS, LESLIE NOTED THAT THE STRONG THEME OF AMERICAN DELEGATES TO THE FIFTH STOCKHOLM CONFERENCE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MESSAGES ARE CONSIDERED ROUTINE UNLESS A HIGHER PRECEDENCE IS INDICATED IN ADDRESS LINE. DO NOT EXCEED 69 TYPEWRITTEN CHARACTERS PER LINE, INCLUDING SPACES.

# RESTRICTED HANDLING

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

Copy of __________

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT::
DATE:

(CLASSIFICATION) (DATE AND TIME FILED)

SECRET CITE HEADQUARTERS

TO PAGE TWO

WAS THE IDEA OF "CORPORATE COMPLICITY," AND DAYS OF ACTION PLANNED IN THE UNITED STATES BETWEEN 21 AND 30 APRIL AGAINST COMPANIES WITH MILITARY CONTRACTS. LESLIE URGED SIMILAR ACTION AGAINST AUSTRALIAN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES SUCH AS HONEYWELL COMPUTERS AND QANTAS.

3. (THE AUSTRALIAN SERVICE) HAS ASKED FOR VERIFICATION CONCERNING THE INTENTION OF THESE AMERICANS OR OTHERS TO VISIT AUSTRALIA FOR THE MORATORIUM.

4. PLEASE PROVIDE ANY PERTINENT INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ABOVE FOR PASSAGE TO (THE AUSTRALIAN SERVICE.)

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of Richard Ober]

C/CI/SO Richard Ober

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

![Handwritten Action and Filing notes]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)