# SECRET

October 1976

SUBJECT: Review of ZRRIFLE File Job # 69-S-551

File No. None

1. Folder entitled personality sketches:

Tab M - Harold MELTZER

Harold MELTZER with aliases was involved in the rackets with upper echelon "hoodlums" throughout the U.S. (Pg. 1 Encl. 3 dated 19 Dec 1960.) "In 1959 he furnished information to our QJWIN California office but has not since cooperated with us. N.B. he has the background and talent for the matter we discussed but it is not known whether he would be receptive."

Tab Y - Hanna YAZBECK

YAZBECK lived in Beirut and worked for QJWIN's office intermittently during the past 10 years (dates not given - possibly 51-61.) YAZBECK's chief bodyguard from 50-58 (not named) was a convicted murderer. The bodyguard was murdered. States that YAZBECK has an available pool of assassins.

2. ZRRIFLE/Administrative Financial Folder

a. (OIRT) 2173 dated 13 October 1960, Att. Top Secret

(DEPIGRAM) (Italian Interpol Representative) as source and spotter for Corsicans. Altman to pick his brain and pinpoint his ability to do this job for us, but once selection made, (DEPIGRAM) to be eliminated.

b. Memorandum dated 31 January 1961

QJWIN recruited Frankfurt 1 November 1960 to undertake one-shot mission to Belgian Congo. Mission potentially involved great personal risk.

c. Memorandum dated 25 October 1961

QJWIN salary payment. States QJWIN not U.S. citizen.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

d. Memorandum to W.K. Harvey dated 3 July 1962

Page 2. "Despite COS Luxe's viewpoint, I happen to know that QJWIN can do more spotting in Corsican circles whenever we want him to."

e. LUXE 0573 (IN 77918) dated 2 March 1963

Para. 2. Contact with QJWIN put off until 8 March. Headquarters reminded that despite repeated request, no correspondence received re this "operation" in past 8 months.

f. Memorandum to C/FI from William Harvey dated 27 June 1963

"As far as ZRRIFLE aspects this op, which have been covered under the QJWIN authorization for security reasons and with which Fletcher Knight is fully familiar, except for one precautionary 'life line', aspects of this case have been terminated and need no longer be considered part of this project."

g. OLLA 1974 dated 24 April 1964

QJWIN has been terminated amicably. Para 2 - "QJWIN's personal history reflects major instability and the habit of hedging his bets is undoubtedly part of his character. This does not imply a security breach. There is nothing to indicate that he has discussed his CIA relationship with anyone except, perhaps his wife."

LAD/JFK Task Force


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)