2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
MATERIAL--REVIEWED AT CIA-HEADQUARTERS BY

HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: 201-287249
Vol II

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 8 Dee 75      | 8 Dec 75      | Betsy Wolf               | Betsy Wolf                      |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE

![image of page number 2892]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FBI Doc.

29 Sept. 1962 (Wash.)

RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj

DBA-23746


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

To:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Jach

From: Deputy Director (Plans)

Subject: Sason Giridam ROCKCHILID, also known as
Sason RADVILOV
Internal Security - Russia

1. Reference is made to your letter dated 12 July 1962, entitled as above, to our CSC1-3/772,715, dated 25 September 1962, and to your file number 105-91205.

2. Information from our representative in Paris indicates that one Semoch ISKAH, born 10 May 1941, Landanian, USSR, possibly a Soviet citizen, living at La Galse, France, and a Russian refugee, was listed by the French Ministry of Interior as potentially dangerous during the visit of Nikita Khrushchev to France from 15-20 March 1960.
   Approximately two thousand other individuals were also listed.

3. An official French liaison service reported on 9 November 1962, that Josef KOSKI (sic) had not attracted their attention. Our representative advises that this is tantamount to a "no trace" reply.

CSC1 3/773,830

SR/CI/ADD - L. Lyman 4 Dec 1962
Distribution:
Orig and 1 addressee
1 C/CI
1 CI/Liaison
1 CI/A
1 SR/CI/P/DL
1 FIID-(201-237249)
1 WE/3
1 CI/OG/SS
1 Comeback
1 SR/CI/ADD

Based on CSFA-65186, 20 Nov 1962

SECRET
US COPY

![stamp: Excluded from automatic declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FBI doc.
29 Nov. 1962 (PHiladelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohonŕlyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 28575

FBI doc.
62 20 November 1962
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorklyj
DBA 28182


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING

TO

Chief, SR

INFO

Chief, WE Chief of Station, Vienna

Chief, FE

FROM

Chief of Station, Paris

SUBJECT REDWOOD/ECIAPROVE

JozefYKOZAK

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION: None; for information only.

REFERENCES: A. OFPW-34223, 25 September 1962

B. OFPA-67615, 16 October 1962 (not sent Vienna.)

In their Memorandum No. D-5054 dated 9 November 1962, USOUND informed us that Subject had not attracted UPOUND's attention. This is tantamount to a "no trace" reply.

Robert G. LAMPRELL

Distribution:

2- SR redistragen

2- WE

2- EE

2- Vienna

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-289249 deferred

DATE TYPED DATE DISPATCHED

16 Nov 62 20 Nov 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OFPA-05186

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-289249


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# DISPATCH

TO

Chief, SR

INFO

Chief, WE
Chief, EE

FROM

Chief of Station, Paris

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE
Josef KOZAK

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION: None; FYI only.

REFERENCE: (CFFW-34223 of 25 September 1962

1. According to Paris Station files:

Joseph KOSAK AKA KOZAR
DPOB: 10 May 1901, Szrioriben, USSR
Possibly a Soviet citizen
ADDRESS: La Seine, France
Russian Refugee

was listed by French Ministry of Interior as potentially dangerous during the visit of Nikita KHRUSHCHEV to France, 15 - 30 March 1960. Approximately two thousand other individuals were also listed (SOURCE: OFP-8178 of 27 April 1960, page 35).

2. Since Paris Station has terminated AEDOGMA/1, it will not be possible to obtain further information on Subject from him.

3. We are querying UNBOUND for information on Subject.

Robert G. LAMPREZZL

Distribution:
2 - SR
2 - WE
2 - EE

CS COPY

INDEX X

201-289249

DATE TYPED

10 Oct 62

DATE DISPATCHED

OCT 19 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OPPA- 67615

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-289249


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Paris, COS, Vienna

FROM: Chief SA, via Chief, WE and Chief, EE

SUBJECT: REDWOOD/LCDITROVE

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: Semen Spiridon PCHORILYJ akn Sezen PCHORILIM (201-289249) and Jozef KOZAK aka Osyp KOZAK

Action Required: See below

1.  Attached for your information is an FBI report on an interview with Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ, contact of Semen POHORILYJ and correspondent of Antin MYKYPORUK.

2.  The FBI has requested any information available in our files or through ¡UBARK sources concerning KOZAK's current activities and contacts with the Soviets. The information on KOZAK in the last paragraph on page 3 and the top of page of the attachment, is the latest information we have on KOZAK. This same information was received from Paris in CPPA-55817 of 7 December 1960 and gave KOZAK's address as 25 rue Caston Jaillon, Vesines Chalette, Loiret.

3. To Paris: We would appreciate any information available on KOZAK's current activities and contacts. You may query liaison.

4. To Vienna: The interview with DIDKOWSKYJ contains a statement that KOZAK left the camp in Salzburg for France with NYKYPORUK in 1948 or 1949. Other information indicates that KOZAK came to France in 1946 from Munich. We would appreciate your checking Station and liaison files for any information on KCZAK, including biographic data and the date of his departure for France (or Munich). Please send a copy of your reply to Paris.

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - Paris v/a
2 - Vienna v/a

Doris M. Killgo

Paul K. Stockwood

DATE TYPED: 10 Sept. 1962

DATE DISPATCHED: 28 SEP 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: LOFTM-34223

![routing] CS COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

25 SEP 1962

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. C. J. Rapich

FROM: Deputy Director, (Plans)

SUBJECT: Serge Spiridon KUKARIN, also known as
Susan KUKARIN
Internal Security - Russia

1. Reference is made to your letter dated 12 July 1962, entitled as above, and to your file number 135-9229.

2. The files of this Agency contain no additional information on Josef KODL, also known as "VIAL." We are querying our sources abroad for any information available on KODL and his current activities and contacts with the Soviets. You will be advised of the results of our inquiries.

COMI-3/772,123

SA/CI/RED/L.Lyon 13 September 1962

Distribution:
Addressee - Orig. & 1
1 - C/CI
1 - CI/Liaison
1 - CI/R&A
1 - S3/CI/P/41
1 - RID (201-289249)
1 - WE/3
1 - EE/A
1 - CI/CG/SS
1 - Caseback
1 - SA/CI/RED

Coord. with CS COPY

> ![201-289249 ABSTRACT INDEX DATE 13 Sep 62] This is a control marking on the document, indicating abstract, index, and date.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

FBI doc.
24 Aug. 1962 (Philadelphia)
RS: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 20582

ELB FBI&4008


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/FI

PROPER FILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

![comments]

| TO  | ROOM NO  | DATE        | OFFICER S INITIALS        |     |
| --- | -------- | ----------- | ------------------------- | --- |
| 1.  | SR/KIPED | 5115        | AUG... RECEIVED FORWARDED | Jaf |
| 2.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 3.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 4.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 5.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 6.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 7.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 8.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 9.  |          |             |                           |     |
| 10. |          |             |                           |     |
| 11. |          |             |                           |     |
| 12. |          |             |                           |     |
| 13. |          |             |                           |     |
| 14. |          |             |                           |     |
| 15. |          |             |                           |     |
| 16. |          |             |                           |     |
| 17. | RID/FI   | gynces 3 14 |                           |     |

The report provides
bec data on Krimenko &
Burchart. The investigation
endicates there is no
parant of contact between
these persons and
Pahardin-

ALL DBA-23746,

18-10-62 for some

![illegible text]


FILE TITLE

TRACE REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-289249

DOCUMENT DATE

3 Aug 62

SECRET

DOCUMENT NUMBER

EAVA 30210


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISPATCH

TO Chief of station, Paris

FROM Chief of Station, Austria

SUBJECT REDWOOD/LCIMPROVE/ALDORKA/1
Semon PORORILNY

ACTION For your information.

REFERENCE:
A. DOM-10664, 23 May 1961
B. CASA-5566, 24 November 1961

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO
EAVA-30210

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO
201-289249
29-6-106/3

DATE 3 August 1962

RE: 433 - (CHECK “X” ONE)
MARKED FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
X INDEXING CAN BE JUDGED BY QUALIFIED HQ DESK ONLY

In accordance with a recent request from ODENVY, we queried our liaison in regard to Subject and his contacts in Austria. A copy of their reply, which has been passed directly to ODENVY in Bern, is attached for your information.

Christine R. Kerbe

ATTACHMENT: h/w
Liaison Reply dated 24 July 1962 (in German)

Distribution:
2 - COS, Paris w/Att.
2 - Chief, EE w/o Att.
1 - Chief, SR w/Att.
1 - Chief, WE w/o Att.

31 July 1962

![CS COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

AT" IMENT TO EAVA-30210

Subreed
Betr.: PCHORILYI en Spiridow,
CHART Tera,
Dr. KRITANIC Gregor

Hesugi Jo. Anfrage
Feples in tecatino.

Dr. Gregor PRIWENKO (Arst, 3.12.10 in law, Udok geb.,
seit 1955 durch Einburgerung Österr. St., urolzmünsterco,
Obarlisterr., wh.) war coinerzeit in der Ukraine als Arzt
tätig und kan in Jaro 1943 mit seiner Gett Parla geb.
Kurotschina und seinen beiden Kindern als Fluchtling nach
Österreich. Von 1943 bis 1945 war er als Arzt im Kranken-
haus Ried i. I., später im Allgemeinen Krankenhaus in Ling
und dann bis 1952 als Fluchtlingsarzt in chemaligen Flüchs-
lingslager Kied 1. I. angestellt. Seit 1952 geht er keiner
geregelten Arbeit mehr nach. Als Befürsorgter übt er noch
fallweise stillschweigend geduldet die Heilpraxis uus. In
Übrigen betätigt er sich als Organist und Chordirigent in
der griechisch-orthod. Kirche in Salzburg. Seine Gattin, die
seinerseit in der Ukraine angeblich Sängerin war, ist gleich-
falls musikalisch titig. Der Sohn Dr. KRIENTOS studiert
Sprachen, die Tochter ist kränklich und steht in keinem
Arbeitsverhältnis. Ein Bruder Dr. KRITENKOS ist angeblich
noch in der UdSSR als Arst angestellt.

Dr. KRITENKO lebt mit seiner Familie in sehr bescheidenen
Verhältnissen, ist sehr religiös eingestellt und als Antir
kommunist bekannt. Die gange Familie genießt einen guten Ruf.

Veronika (Vera) BURCHART geb. Chermilewski (17.2.1901
in BAR/Ukraine_ged., seit 1957 durch Einbürgerung Österr.St.,
Untereitzing 32, Bes. Kied 1.I./Oberösterr., wh.) kamnit
ihrem Gatten Wilhelm BURCHART (26.4.1887 in Jedenier/Ukr. geb.)

3 aug 6

ENLI TO EAVA 30210.

CS COP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

- 2-

gleichfalls im Jahre 1943 als Fluchtling von der Ukraine
nach Österreich, Wilhelm BUCHART war in der Ukrai ne
Fabrikadirektor. 1961 verstarb er in Ried i.I. Veronika
BURCHART erhält sine Rente. Sie tritt in keiner Meise nach-
teilig in Erscheinung.

Die bisherigen Erhebungen erbrachten keine Anhalts-
punkte dafür, daß die Vorgenannten Verbindung zu dem in
Philadelphia lebenden Semen Spiridow IOHORILIYi haben.
Sollten die weiteren Erhebungen in dieser Hinsicht Positives
erbringen, wird der do. Stelle davon Mitteilung gemacht
werden.

24.7.1962


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

FBI doc.
12 July 1962 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: (E) 105-93295
DBA 13988


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# DISPATCH

TO

Chief of Station, Paris

INFO

FROM

Chief SR, via Chief WB

SUBJECT

REDWOOD/LCINPROVE
Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

ACTION: None, FYI

Attached for your information is a copy of an ODENVY report dated 20 April 1962, on an interview with Subject on 13 April 1962.

Doris M. Killgo

Hortimer F. Bingham

Distribution:
3 COS Pairs v/att



DATE TYPED

201-259249

DATE DISPATCHED

16 May 1962 25 MAY 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OFPW-33472

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

201-289249

|           |        | ORIGINATING |      |
| --------- | ------ | ----------- | ---- |
| OFFICE    | TYPIST | aes         | EXT  |
| SR/CI/RED | Llyod  |             | 6991 |

COORDINATING

| ROUTING | INITIAL |
| ------- | ------- |
| RID/AN  | RID     |
| RID/MES |         |
| RID/PS  |         |
| RID/FT  |         |
|         |         |

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE  | OFFICER'S NAME |
| ------------- | ----- | -------------- |
| C/SR/CI/RED   | 26/5  |                |
| C/SR/2        |       |                |
| FI/SPOG       | 22/ay |                |

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE    | RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE |
| ------------- | ------- | ----------------------------- |
| C/WE/3        | 2.1 May |                               |

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

TO:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Hr. 8. J. Parich

FROM:
Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT:
Sesen Spiridon PUHURILYJ also known as Semen PCHORILIW
Internal Security - Russia

1.  Reference is made to your memorandus of 5 February 1962 regarding the Subject and to your filo musber 105-93295 (Ε).

2.  An interviev of Subject by your Bureau, under the conditions outlined in the reference, would not adversely affect any of this Agency's sources or operations. We would appreciate any information you may obtain from Subject on his contacts and associates abroad.

CECI-3/769,591

SR/CI/RED/LLyon:aoh - 23 February 1962

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - C/CI
1 - CI/Liaison
1 - CI/R&A
1 - SR/CI/P/dl
1 - SR/CI/RED
1 - Comeback
1 - RI/Files (201-209249

Reference: DBA-396, 5 February 1962

SECRET

CS COPY

201-289249


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

FBI doc.
20 April 1962 (Philadelphia)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj
Bufile: 105-93295
DBA 7408

FBI doc.
5 Feb. 1962 (Wash.)
RE: Semen Spiridon Pohorilyj, aka
Bufile: 105-93295 (E)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

19 JAN 1962

TO:

Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM:

Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ also known as Semen PUHRILIW
and Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ also known as DIALANSKY (fmu)
Internal Security - Russia

1.  Reference is made to previous correspondence from this office regarding the Subjects and to your file number 105-93295.

2.  The files of this Agency contain no identifiable information on Andrij DIDKOWSKYJ of 731 North Seventh Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. We have not checked our sources abroad and will not do so unless this action is specifically requested by you.

3.  A sensitive Austrian source provided the following information on Semen Spiridon POHORILYJ on 31 October 1961:

> "Semen POHORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Czerkassy/ Kiev, married, teacher, Ukrainian citizen, resided at the refugee camp in Siezenheim, Salzburg, from 13 July 1950 to 23 August 1950. Prior to 13 July 1950 he lived at the Hellbrunn refugee camp in Salzburg. According to police records Subject left Salzburg for the United States on 23 August 1950."

4.  Additional information from the same sensitive source, in the form of a photographic copy of the official police registration card and a negative of an identification photograph of Subject, both dated 7 November 1947, reveals that

> "Semen POHORILYJ - born 2 February 1910 in Przemysl, is a Polish citizen, married, teacher, 173 cm tall, gray eyes, blond hair, oval face, no prominent or identifying features."

# SECRET

![CS COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

-2-

A copy of the photograph is attached for your information. The date
on the registration card presumably indicates the date on which Sub-
ject vas first officially registered by the Salzburg police.

CSCI-3/769,019

Attachment - As stated
SR/CI/RED/LLyon:afo - 15 January 1962

Distribution:

Orig & 1 - Addressee, w/att.

1 - C/CI, v/o att.

1 - CI/LSI, w/o att.

1 - CI/RLA, w/o att.

1 - SR/CI/P/dl, w/o att.

1 - SR/CI/RED, w/o att.

1 - EE/A, w/o att.

1 - Comeback, v/o att.

1 - RI/Files, w/o att. (201-289249)

Reference - DEF-96946, 21 December 1961

Based on ZASA-05566, 24 November 1961

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECRET

1. SUBJECT (NAME, IN ROMAN LETTER, AND IN NORMAL CASE)

DIDFSKYJ, Andrij

2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS, ETC NUMBERS, ETC.

DIALNAWSKY

3. BIRTH DATE

30 Nov 1890,

4. BIRTH PLACE

Didkowitscze, Ukraine

5. CITIZENSHIP

U.S. in 1958

6. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Retired - lives at 631 North 7th St. Philadelphia Pa.

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EEUCATION

Laborer

8. MILITARY SERVICE

SERVICE ARM, COUNTRY

SPECIALTY

LOCATION

DATES

9. PAST OCCUPATIONS

ACTIVITY

LOCATION

DATES

1904 to 1920 resided in Russia.

1920 to 1943 in Poland

1943 to 1951 Salzburg, Austria

1951 to Sept. 1958 - Philadelphia


10. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT)

(WEIGHT)

(EYES)

(HAIR)

(PACE)

(OTHER)

6'1"

170

Brown

Black-grey

White

11. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

Wira Sergel, born 1897 in the Ukraine. Resides at Kostopol, Ukraine.

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

13. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

RESPONSE TO GREEN LIST

REQUEST NO 100092

DATE OF REQUEST 5 Jan 62

REQUEST FROM

NAME OF ORIGINATING OFFICER

L. Lyon

OFFICE DESIGNATOR SR/CI/RED

ROOM, BUILDING 15C1 J

EXTENSION 8251

WAS CONTINUING SEARCH REQUESTED?

X YES NO

TYPE OF REQUEST

X FIRST TIME SUBMITTED

ADDITIONAL DATA

INTEREST IN SUBJECT

ESPIONAGE OR CE ACTIVITY

OPERATIONAL CLEARANCE

INFORMATION REQUIRED

All information

INSTRUCTIONS: INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. SEND BOTH SHEETS TO FI/D. SEE CSI-10-7.

FORM 501 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

L. Lyon 11 January 1962

4: FI/D

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/O BICG-APHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED MERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/O IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

D. FI/D HAS NO INFORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A CONTINUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

TE TO THE CRIGINATING OFFICE

* THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION ICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

IEM YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT APE NO GER OF SUFFICIENT INTEPEST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT THE UP FI/D'S ILITIES WITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS CT REQUIRED.

4:

FI/D

NAME

OFFICE DESIGNATOR

ROOM, BUILDING

EXTENSION

DATE

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)