# MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Heing S. de MOHRENSCHILDT

1. The Interagency Source Register has no record of Subject (including the 1960's).

2. CI/OA has no record of Subject.

3. Check WUBRINY (ccs) -

4. Check LA/Haiti (Vivian + Starlits)

5. DCD file - (copy attached)

8 Nov 76

Re separate request on FRIGAUD, form (Belgian appointment - 1960's) - IPS has no record.

![Form 7-62 1954, Office and Title, Classification, Signature, GROUP 1: EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

Need letter
Need policy of uncle
Life DDO material released

6 de M

1. Don Messy got further call for Moreitz
   official requint.

2. OS. Slin material. Contact Redden & rec file. If only refu as for DODS & FR, not problem.

3. DCD sensitive material can be made available - no higher level authority, for him to see here.

4. Al Brodie (IG) You letter & Bauk & reply check. we haven't seen. Should go-201. Anything else?

Messy can get for F6, but if it from DDO we would love to reverse it.

5. Vivian Hardillo (Haiti) has 201 file. To identify problem re source intercept (if it. can't protect that
   (1% US Emb + we got it)., segregating this + FBI material, all else, panitize it.

6. Check ISR and all other on list to see what they have.

7. Bolton says 16 article re Post article by Kemler.

8. Find out from Vircin re what story was.

9. Is it the same if c/o Emb & Emb opened it as domestic US mail?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 13-00000

Check following -

George de Mohrenschildt

- CI/OC - Norman Ott
- CI Staff (Russ Holmes)

JMWAVE (Alton Stunkitts)

- LA/Haiti (Vivian Gardella)

ISR

CCS - (Erich Isaac)

IG - (Al Birdie)

WUBRINY/1 file

April '63 - introduced by Clement, Dykes, Charles, financed

15 May '63 - State w/ ADI

21 May '63

![arrow pointing up and right]


TRANSMITTAL SLIP

TO: Erie DATE 26 Nov

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS: These are my notes in the

G. de M. matter. Did like

to go over then with you on

Monday to see if you could pick

up some of the forces. I

furtherly should do an M/Rm

our meeting with in Moore-Raymond me

FROM: ![signature]

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION

FORM NO. 1 FEB 55 241 REPLACES FORM 36-8 WHICH MAY BE USED.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PRIVACY ACT- to the extent it in the jurisdiction of the Com Th
OSS applicants in A42 (DI to Nazi examination)

CI Stay/L

57-58 - Yugoslavia - debriefed by DCD
Mind- record enter till ave - ‘961

23 & 24 Nov. DCD/ Dallas on mist to the GBM Le to Oswald d
63
Testified before Warren Commission
Masa FBI was center upter
Dec 63- Haiti- some repitly
We puned to Warren Commission
also summary & amici

Also fussed to Brooms in 1965
Man in the
also ONI
ACSI
State
CSE
Commercial Ops part of Do Division
Transferred to 1963
Gale Allen
04
WUBRINY/1 = (John Pell Carter Thain)
still a combat agent
WUSALINE = [ Cover of her John Barkley of CCS
in whtion]
24

John Leader
2E24


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MEMORANDUM FOR: Lun Holmer

for Don M.

Im Moore (de Brinksident)

will be here on Friday at 0930 (in OLC office to review material)

Non-Yield Secur had so little info that they should be done away with first. Thinks Moore should be ready to review DDO material @ 10-1030.

Date June 08 Dec 76

![Form 5-75 101 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)