# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TEL 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR DATE - TIME GROUP DISPATCH NUMBER

TELEPOUCH FAME4125

0 INDEX 0. NO INDEX

0 RETURN TO:

0 IP FILES 13-10 13-4

TO: (MELBOURNE)(CANBERRA)

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISP NO: (FAMU-4125

DATE: 16 NOVEMBER 1973 13-10

TO: CHIEF OF BASE, (MELBOURNE)

CHIEF OF STATION, (CANBERRA) 13-4

FROM: CHIEF, EAST ASIA DIVISION

SUBJECT: MR. HERBERT ITKIN

FYI ONLY:

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 034405

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

ON: 6 NOVEMBER 1973 MR. (LESLIE V. JARVIS) (ASIO REP) IN WASHING-

TON, HAND CARRIED TO HQS A LETTER FROM AUSTRALIAN JUSTICE A. R. MOFF-.

ITT REQUESTING INFORMATION ON THE RELIABILITY OF MR. HERBERT ITKIN WHOM HE DESCRIBED AS A FORMER CIA AND FBI EMPLOYEE. THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPHS ARE THE GIST OF MR. MOFFITT'S LETTER, WHICH WAS ADDRESSED TO "MR. WILLIAM CROSEY, (SIC) DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

A. MOFFITT HOLDS A COMMISSION TO INQUIRE INTO THE INFIL-

TRATION OF ORGANIZED CRIME INTO NEW SOUTH WALES. IT IS OF SUBSTANTIAL IMPORTANCE TO HIS INQUIRY THAT HE CONSIDER EVIDENCE GIVEN DURING A

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS IP USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

CROSS REFERENCE FILE NUMBER

5-2-5/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# OUTGOING TELEPOUCH

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

TELEPOUCH

COURT CASE IN ENGLAND IN JULY 1971 BY ITKIN.

B. IN HIS TESTIMONY IN ENGLAND MR. ITKIN CLAIMED TO HAVE BEEN RECRUITED BY CIA IN AN "UNEDERCOVER CAPACITY" IN ABOUT 1954. HE CLAIMED HE WAS WITH THE C.I.A. UNTIL MARCH 1963 AT WHICH TIME BY SOME ARRANGEMENT HE WORKED FOR BOTH THE FBI AND CIA, UNTIL JANUARY 1966.

C. MOFFITT ASKS FOR INFORMATION ON THE STATUS OF MR. ITKIN DURING THE YEARS 1964 TO 1969 AND FOR COPIES OF "ANY RELEVANT AFFIDAVITS OF PERSONS IN AUTHORITY IN THE FBI OR CIA USED IN PROCEEDINGS IN USA."

D. MOFFITT NOTED THAT IN THE INTERESTS, OF PRIVACY HE ROUT-1 ED HIS LETTER VIA THE AUSTRALIAN-DIPLOMATIC POUCH, AND ASKED THAT THE REPLY BE RETURNED TO HIM BY THE AUSTRALIAN EMBASSY IN WASHINGTON.

2. MR. MOFFITT'S REQUEST WAS HANDLESD BY THE OFFICE OF GENERAL COUNCIL {OGC} WHO MADE AVAILABLE FOR MR. MOFFITT COPIES OF THREE AFFIDAVITS CALL OF WHICH IN PUBLIC DOMAING RELEVANT TO HERBERT ITKIN BAND HIS AFFILIATION WITH THE CIA. OGC CONCLUDED THEIR REPLY BY SAY-EING THAT HERBERT ITKIN FURNISHED INFORMATION TO THE CIA OVER A PERIOD OF MANY YEARS, BUT THAT HE WAS NOT SENT TO ENGLAND TO COLLECT ANY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# TELEPOUCH

OGC SUBJ: ITKIN, HERBERT

DISPATCH NUMBER
FAMY-4125

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 034405

INFORMATION FOR CIA AND HE DID NOT FURNISH THE CIA WITH ANY INFORMA-
TION WHILE HE WAS IN ENGLAND.

3. OGC'S REPLY WAS SENT TO MR. MOFFITT IN THE SAME CHANNELS HIS
   REQUEST CAME IN. HQS POUCHING COPIES AFFADAVITS, BOTH LETTERS.

U/S/CO VIA POUCH

EZ IMPDET-H

DATE: 26 NOVEMBER 1972
ORIG: (LARASHER) BAK
UNIT: EA/PHEN
EXT: 5621/9033

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY, C/EA

OGC MR. GREANY (IN DRAFT)

CI MR. ROCCA (IN DRAFT)

SECRET

FILE NUMBER 5-2-5/3

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)