# INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Thursday - 9 March 1978

Page 2

HSCA

5. (Unclassified - JMS) LIAISON House Select Committee on Assassinations staffers visited Headquarters to review files.

6. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Advised Tom Latimer, Staff Director, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, of the situation developing with the House International Relations Subcommittee on International Organizations having open hearings on FBI/CIA dealings on KCIA in the early 1970's. Latimer said he would alert Chairman Edward Boland (D., Mass.).

7. (Confidential - LLM) LIAISON Talked to Mike Hershman, Deputy Staff Director, House International Relations Subcommittee on International Organizations, and he agreed to set back the planned hearings with former FBI agent McDonnell until 21 March. I made it clear that by this action we were not making any commitment to appear and told Hershman that I hoped the next step would be taken on Monday, 13 March.

8. (Internal Use Only - GC) LIAISON Called Beverly Lumpkin, on the staff of the House International Relations Subcommittee on International Organizations, to tell her that the supplementary paragraph submitted by the Subcommittee was acceptable for public release.

9. (Secret - DFM) LIAISON Called Audrey Hatry, Clerk, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, who gave me a rundown of Committee meetings for next week. Scheduled for the week are FBI and DEA FY-1979 budget briefings on 14 March and a meeting of the Special Investigation Subcommittee on 17 March to discuss the recently completed staff report on CIA activities in Australia.)

10. (Unclassified - DFM) LIAISON Talked with Doug McCullough, Senate Select Committee on Ethics staff, Don Sanders and Ken deGraffenreid, both of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, regarding Senator Adlai Stevenson's (D., Ill.) request of last week for the Agency to provide him examples of leaks that he might use to illustrate seriousness of leaks in a closed Senate session. None of these people were able to give me a date for the planned session although Sanders did provide some help on what kinds of examples would be the most useful.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)