# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OPTIONAL FORM NO 10

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Chief, WH Division

ATTN: Barney Hildago

FROM: Chief, Safehouse Branch

SUBJECT: Safehouse #405

SECRET

DATE: 21 August 1964

REQUISITION: Your requisition for a domestic safehouse (Req. 64-9) routed to us through the Central Cover Staff (CCS 263) has been met by the following property in the manner herein described.

PROPERTY: A two bedroom furnished apartment, (Apt. G-32) located in the (Summit Hills Apartments) located at (16th Street) and (East-West Highway,)
(Silver Spring, Md.)

LESSOR: (Summit Hills Apartments East-West Highway, Silver Spring, Md.)

LESSEE: Mr. (Roger McK. Shea) security cleared attorney with offices located at (2041 Wilson Blvd.) Arlington, Virginia. Office Telephone JA 4-5510

LEASE: The lease is on file in the Safehouse Branch, Office of Logistics. The terms are for a six month period from 1 July 1964 through 31 December 1964.

COVER STORY: Mr. (Shea) has leased the apartment for his client Mr. V. Rodriguez who is in the Washington Metropolitan area and is associated with the (Inter-University Committee for Political and Social Action.)

CASE OFFICER: As stipulated by you, Mr. Barney Hidalgo has been designated as the responsible case officer. Any future change in case officer must be reported promptly to the Safehouse Branch.

FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS: All obligations for rent, utilities, and other related expenses, will be paid by Mr. (Shea) the lessee cutout. Bills received at the Safehouse should be passed to the Safehouse Branch upon receipt.

Orig. - Addressee

1 - OL/RECD/SHB Official file

OL/RECD/SHB/(JPRyan)bj/3683

![signature of Edward U. Denison]

EDWARD U. DENISON


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)