# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: BARNES, WINIFRED C.
DOD FILE 08 97 44

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

DATE DATE
RECEIVED RETURNED
REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFI
NOT REVIEVED BY HSC

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

INTEROFFICE MEMORANDUM

DATE : 28 February 1967

TO : Director, Domestic Contact Service

SUBJECT: BARNES, Winfred Clark

FILE NO: 496 289

A-89744

1. Reference is made to your request for security checks on the subject person as a source of intelligence information.

2. This is to inform you that the necessary checks have been completed with the following results:

a. X No additional information has been obtained, except for such biographic information as indicated below or in the attachment.

b. Information has been received that Subject was investigated with favorable results in

c. Certain information has been received and appears in the attachment which your Division will wish to consider in determining the extent and level of your use of Subject.

3. It is to be noted that our checks were made on the basis of the identifying information you furnished or in an attachment to this memorandum. Should it be disclosed that this information is erroneous or that Subject is known by a different name, this Division should be notified immediately.

![signature of STEVEN L. KURN]

STEVEN L. KURN
Chief, Personnel Security Division

Attachment:

State Passport Report

APPROVED

FORM 1124a OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

BARNES, Winfred Clark
#496 289

11 January 1967

On 14 January 1967 a passport file of Winfred Clark BARNES was reviewed at the Passport Office, Department of State. The following is a summary of the information contained therein:

Date of Birth: 1 ilay 1912 at Gatesville, Texas; verified by birth certificate

Father: Shaw Andrew BARNES; Date of Birth: 8 May 1882 at Kennedy, Texas; current residence not given.

Mother: Velma Elizabeth HARRIS; Date of Birth: 8 March 1888 at.... Thelza, Texas; current residence not given.

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida on 27 January 1966, #G755310, for a period of four weeks to visit Mexico, Guatemala, Costa Rica, Peru, Columbia, Venezuela, Argentina, and Brazil for the purpose of tourism.

Permanent address: 5350 Southwest 76th Street Miami, Florida

Mailing address: International Petroleum Company, Ltd 396 Alhambra Circle Coral Gables, Florida

Occupation: Director

Spouse: Lois Enquist BARNES; Date of Birth: 8 Marcy 1915 at New Haven, Connecticut; current residence not given; Wed: 17 February 1945; no information on whether or not marriage has been terminated.

PASSPORT ISSUED: At Miami, Florida on 27 February 1961, #B10331, for a period of varying from one day to three weeks to visit Bermuda, Bahamas, Jemica, Trinidad, British Guiana, Guadeloupe, Barbados and Suriname for the purpose of business.

RENEWED: At Miami, Florida on 12 May 1964, for a period of ten days to visit Peru, Columbia, and other South American countries for the purpose of business

SUBJECT's first passport was issued at Washington, D. C. on 21 February 1957, #328617, for a period of indefinite time, to visit Bermuda, Hehamas, Haiti, Trinidad, Jamica, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Panama, Nicaragua,

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

#496 289

and Cuatemala for the purpose of business
RENEWED: At Havana, Cuba on 2 separate occasions:
13 February 1959 and 5 June 1959, for a period of
approximately two on both renewal forms, countries
to visit and purpose of visit not given.

EAG/nch

APPROVED

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

DATE 6 December 1966

MEMORANDUM TO: MIAMI FIELD OFFICE

ATTENTION: GLEICHAUF

SUBJECT: Ad Hoc Clearance

REFERENCE:

![handwritten text A 89744]

Security Division has

By: WINFRED CLARK BARNES

granted ad hoc clearance thru

Security checks will be completed.

![signature] VIRGINIA L. THORPE
Security Liaison Officer

cc: VThorne:pat

SECURITY MESSAGE # 1150

GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND DECLASSIFICATION

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Miami (Gleichaif)

14 November 1966

## BIOGRAPHIC DATA

16 NOV 1966

1. SUBJECT'S LAST NAME - FIRST NAME - MIDDLE NAME

BARNES, Winfred Clark

2. ALIASES

A-897497

3. DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

1 May 1912, Gatesville, Texas

4. SEX 5. CITIZENSHIP

M US

6. FULL NAME OF SPOUSE, DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH, CITIZENSHIP

## RESIDENCES (Including No., and Street, Zone, R.F.D., etc.)

COMPLETE ADDRESS

7. 
FROM TO

Present 5350 Southwest 76th Street Miami, Florida

8. 
136284

## EMPLOYMENT

FROM TO NAME OF EMPLOYER COMPLETE ADDRESS

1964 1966 Esso-Inter-America Inc. Coral Gables, Florida

1961 1964 International Petroleum Co. Coral Gables, Florida

1960 Esso Standard Oil S.A., Ltd Coral Gables, Florida

1959 Esso Standard Oil (Cuba Div)

1957 Esso Standard Oil, S.A. Havana, Cuba

1927 1955 Humble Oil Company

## EDUCATION (High school, college, graduate work, etc.)

FROM TO NAME OF SCHOOL DEGREE OR MAJOR

1925 1929 Pearsall High School Pearsall, Texas

1930 1933 University of Texas Austin, Texas

1955 University of Pittsburg (15 session)

10. ADDITIONAL PERTINENT INFORMATION, INCLUDING FULL NAME. CITIZENSHIP DATA ON PARENTS AND CHILDREN.

16 NOV 1966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

MR. WINFRED
C. BARNES
5350 Southwest 75th Street
Miami, Florida

BUSINESS
Subject is General Manager and in Cuba Division at:
S000049 - Esso Standard Oil SA, Havana, Cuba
Subject is now with:
DIRECTOR!
Al36284 - Esso Inter-America Inc., Coral Gables, Florida

INACTIVE
DATE 14 AUG 1553
INITIALS BCS

ACTIVATED
DATE 12-13-1666
INITIALS re


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CO-N-F-I-D-E N-T-I-A-L

1 May 1967

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miami Office

SUBJECT: Executive Leadership Conferences on Public Affairs

1. On Friday, 28 April 1967, the business executives attending the Conferences for Business Executives on Federal Government Operations, conducted by The Brookings Institution, were briefed by ranking Agency officials.

2. I have attached for your information biographic information on the executives from your area who were present.

Attachments: a/s
cc: Control w/utts
JRM:mg

JAMES R. MURPHY
Director, Domestic Contact Service

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# WINFRED C. BARNES
Director
Esso Inter-America Inc.

Mr. Barnes attended the University of Texas.

He began his career with Humble Oil & Refining Company, where he held various marketing positions before serving in the U. S. Army from 1942 to 1946. He rejoined Humble as a District Sales Supervisor at Corpus Christi, Texas, and later held the positions of District Manager, Assistant Division Manager, and Marketing Manager in several of Humble's marketing areas. He transferred to Esso Standard Oil, S.A. in Havana as Marketing Manager in 1937, and was General Manager - Cuba Division at the time of the loss of that operation in 1960. Upon his relocation in Coral Gables, Florida in 1960, he became Eastern Region Manager for Esso Standard Oil, S.A. Limited. Mr. Barnes joined International Petroleum Company, Ltd. as Marketing Coordinator in 1961 and was elected a Director of that company in 1964. Today he is a Director of Esso Inter-America Inc., with responsibility for petroleum marketing, public relations, government relations, and operations in the Caribbean and Chile.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. 00-B-3.168,138

SUBJECT Attitude of Segundo Cevallos, Key Official of National Bank

DATE DISTR. 6 Oct 60

NO. PAGES One

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. Sep 60 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. -Havana/Sep 60

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, en official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. (Source is norzally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.)

1. In Sep 60 I talked to an old friend who was president of one of the US-owned tire companies recently interevened by the Castro regiss. My friend stated that he had recently contacted Segundo Cevallos, one of the top officials of the Rational Bank, in comection with obtaining approval for some of the company's US technicians to take their furniture and appliances out of Cuba. Cevallos said, "I don't want those technicians to leave. We need then." At this, the rubber company official stated that it was too late and that the technicians had already gone.

2. Cevallos then wade the statement that he was very much concerned about the flight of technicians of all kinds from Cuba. He said that the revolution had been fought to give Cuba a more highly developed industry, but that the technicians were leaving and industry was being seriously effected.

3. Cevallos then said, "Something is wrong. The revolution has gotten off the track somewhere." He then added, "I have got to talk to 'Che' about this."

4. Cevallos is a man of about 60-63 years, and has a very important position, in that he is in charge of granting foreign exchange. Hy friend said that Cevallos is a very pleasant individual but seems to be a theorist, a professorial type who obviously has had little or no business experience. Be has a background as a writer and philosopher, and apparently is extremely naive as evidenced by his comment that he would talk to "Che" Guevara about how the revolution had gotten off the track.

-end-

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

| STATE | ARMY | NAVY | AIR | FBI | AEC |
| ----- | ---- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED

LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defenes) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws. Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or ravelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited. by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-H-H-Y-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba REPORT NO. OO-B-3,168,139

SUBJECT Anti-Castro Attitude of ICP Personnel DATE DISTR. 6 Oct 60

NO. PAGES Two

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. Sep 60 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Sep 60 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requiresents.]

1. As of Sep 60 there appear to be some significant developments occurring among personnel of the staff of the Caban Petroleum Institute. The Institute has casasndeered a building of Reso Standard Oil SA for use as beadquarters, and is currently engaged in mixing the personnel of all three intervened oil companies in the new headquarters.

2. The shuffling around of personnel has further losered the morale of the petrolewa industry employees, and I have been told that 95% are strongly in favor of the companies and against the Castro regime.

3. Since ICP established its new offices, indoctrination sessions of employees have been scheduled on a twice-a-week basis. The first session was bald recently and was concerned with the "Colored Problem of the World". The gist of the remarks of the conference leader was that Cubans were of Spanish ethnic origin, and because of the close ties of Spaniards and the Hoors for so many hundreds of years it had to be realized that all Cubana had colored blood, and should not make a distinction and should have no prejudices concerning people with colored blood.

4. The second indoctrination session was headed by an overt Commmzaist from the Texas Company. He delivered the straight Party Line, anti-Us, anti-imperialist, anti-monopoly, "The Soviet Union is the great hope of the world for peace", and only Communist ideology will survive, etc.

5. He also stated that, "The Declaration of Havana of Fidel Castro will be our doctrine," and said that it was desired to obtain the signatures of the whole population of Cuba to show that everyone was behind this doctrine. He then said in response to a question regarding what would happen to those who did not sign, "You are either for us or against us."

6. At this, one of the office girls who had been a strong Fidelista got up and remarked that such comments reminded her of the Batista days, and she strongly disapproved of any pressure tactics.

C-O-N-F-I-D-K-H-T-1-A-L

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NO DISSEM ABROAD

NOFORN LIMITED

LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

- 2 -

00-B-3,168,139

7. One of the male office employees then stood and stated that he agreed
   heartily with her, and added that it was not the intent of the revolu-
   tion to "get into this sort of business." He then asked, "Why are we
   getting all this Communist propaganda and why do we not hear anything about
   Jose Marti?" His comments were greeted with applause.

8. A third employee stood up and talked for 45 minutes. He really laid it
   on the line concerning the way the revolution had failed the people of
   Cuba, and had leaned far too much toward Communism. The conference
   leader did not interrupt and following the conclusion of the employee's
   remarks did not even answer. He merely said, "That is all", got up
   and walked out. However, the next scheduled indoctrination session
   was cancelled.

9. Although mixing the employees of the three companies was done deliberately
   to break up a feeling of trust among employees who know each other, and
   to introduce a feeling of fear concerning strangers, there has been close
   cooperation on the technical level between employees of at least two
   refineries. For example, technicians at Esso and Shell recently collaborated
   in shutting down the refineries without real justification, allegedly
   because of Hurricane Donna. When the word got out that the refineries
   were shutting down, ICP officials rushed in and protested vigorously that
   there was no danger, and that the action should not be taken. The
   technicians then said, "Well, it is too late now," and they kept the
   refineries shut down for three full days. Both Shell and Esso technicians
   concerned enjoyed this minor act of sabotage hugely.

10. They also cooperated in delaying action when they were ordered to start
    the cat plant. LPG is needed badly, so the technicians decided to keep
    the unit shut down. ICP officials screamed that it was unnecessary
    and ordered them to start, but the technicians said that it was not
    practical because it was too difficult, and possibly dangerous, to stop
    and start the unit. They said that the shortage of catalysts made it
    impossible to figure on keeping the unit going, and so it was not the
    right thing to do to start it at all. Consequently they have been able
    to keep the cat units shut down completely since the storm.

11. One of the top Shell engineers who has participated in such actions
    is going to attempt to skip the country as a test, because many other
    technicians of the oil companies are desperate to flee Cuba and are
    trying to arrange ways and means to do so.

-end-

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO DISSEM ABROAD

Language-547

LIMITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States: within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unouchorized person is prohibited by law.

CIA INTERRAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. 00-A-3,168,137

SUBJECT Desire of Oil Industry Technicians to Flee Cube/Effect on Production

DATĖ DISTR. 29 Sigat 60

NO. PAGES Two

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. Sep 60 and carlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Sep 60 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a larga oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.)

1. A real body-blow could be given the Castro regime if a few selected technicians in the oil refineries skipped the country. As an example, at the Esso refinery there are four technicians whose loss would have a very severe effect on the production of the refinery. These ken are all young, extremely intelligent, well trained, and are completely loyal to the company. They have served immediately below the super-Intendent and the assistant superintendent. These four would be given immediate jobs in the US, because of their outstanding backgrounde, if they were able to get out of Cuba..

2. The top figure of the four is Leon Hequin Maya, who is a specialist in the Processing Department, one of the most important functions in the plant. This department's responsibilities deal with the physical processing of the product from crude to the finished material.

3. Hequin is 32 years old, married, no children, but expecting a child in Dec 60. He is a graduate of Auburn University, with a degree in chemical er mechanical engineering. He is a Cuban national, I believe of the Jewish faith. He is about 5'10", weighs about 160 lbs, has close cropped black hair, and is a very personable, intelligent young man. He is a very good leader, and was definitely one of the men on their way up in the company.

4. Requin already has been branded a counterrevolutionary in an official Acta, and has been taken out of the plant and put into the office. Apparently the regime wanted to get him away from the production line for fear of possible sabotage, and also wanted to utilize his undoubted talent and knowledge of the industry in headquarters.

5. Hequin is extremely eager to get out of Cuba, but he does not have a police exit permit, and since he has been branded counterrevolutionary he is afraid he would not get his passport back if he presented it for a police permit.

C-O-N-F-I-D--N-T-I-A-L

OCT SOU

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NOFORN NO DISSEM ABROAD

LIMITED LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

CIA INTERHAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-H-T-I-A-L

- 2 -

6. Another outstanding young man is Eequin's assistant, Jose Ramon Alvarez, about 31. He is a graduate of Auburu University and is a top flight engineer. Since Alvarez is single, he says that he will wait until the others get out of Cuba. He also wants to hang back to be able to do some sabotage before he makes his departure. He believes that he will be able to get out on his own.

7. A third top flight mechanical engineer, who is extremely eager to leave Cuba, is Santiago Pardo Suarez del Villar. He is about 35, a graduate of the University of Havana. Pardo is head of Maintenance and Construction, and is an extremely intelligent and capable engineer. He is about 5'8", weighs about 170 lbs, and has dark black shair and a moustache.

8. The fourth is Raul Capote Ortiz, a graduate of Louisiana State University with the degree in chemical engineering. Capote is one of the top technicians in the Processing Department. He is married, but I do not know if he has any children.

-end-

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

HOFORN NO DISSEM ABROAD LIMITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, T.lie 18. U.S.C. Secs. 193 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO 00-B-3,164,609

SUBJECT Operations of Refineries/Effect of Use DATE DISTR. 23 Aug 60
of Soviet Crude Oil/Jet Fuel Production

NO. PAGES Two

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. Aug 60 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60: and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally avail- able for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. As of Aug 60 the three major refineries confiscated by the Castro rogime are operating in fairly good shape. Their principal problem is that the Soviet crude being supplied is very light and they cannot run as mich volums because gas pressure builds up. The Esso refinery, for example, has a capacity of 36 thousand bbls per day on heavy crude, but 26 thousand bbis per day is the best they have besa abie to do on the Soviet crude, and it has been running at a rate of only 20 thousand bbis per day since 20 Jul 60.

2. The Soviet crude available to date has been compatible with the refineries and will not damage them, but in addition to not being able to get as much volume, the rafineries cannot get as much fuel oil because of light ends. This is trus of all three major refineries.

3. The refinerets were designed for 26 gravity crude which is fairly heavy. The Soviet crude is 33 gravity, and has caused an imbalance in that they are now producing more gasoline than is needed. As a consequence, Cuba is searching desperately for fuel oil. The USSR has said that it is not in a position to supply fuel oil and so Cuba has turned toward Mexico, even to the extent of attempting to arrange deals whereby they will trade gasoline for fuel oil.

4. The inbalance of gasoline is indicated by the fact that the Cabaiguan refinary was shut dowa recently because its gasoline storage was completely filled.

5. Cuba will reach a critical point about 1 Sep 60. The Esso refinery slowed down from 26 thousand bble per day to 20 thousand bble per day because it had only a 10-day supply of crude. The supply on hand was sufficient to last only until 14 Ang, but around 11 Aug the refinery was supposed to receive a shipment of 80 thousand barrels of crude. However, this is only enough to operate four days.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 19 SEP 1960

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FB1 AEC

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NOFORN NO DISSEM ABROAD

LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other ollices producing NIS slements, and higher echions with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects of reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Contral Reference, CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espronage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 774, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-B-3,164,652

SUBJECT Shortage of Lubricating Oil/
Operating Supplies for Refineries/
Ship Bunkerage
DATE DISTR. 23 Aug 60

NO. PAGES Two

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. Aug 60
PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. As of Aug 60 there is a shortage of lubricating oil in Cuba which will becoms critical in a fairly short tims. Great efforts have been reade by the Castro regime to obtain lubricating oil from US suppliers, and a vessel, the Mar Caribe, has visited a number of US ports attempting to obtain the oil. However, it has been refused everywhere and had to return to Cubs in ballast. As of 10 Aug 60 it is loading molasses for delivery to Boston, and will then proceed to Montreal in an attempt to obtain lubricating oil.

2. A former Esso employee, Frank Garcia, left Cuba on 2 Aug 60 for Mexico to try to obtain lubricating oil. He is going to visit the Mobile blending plant, PEMEX, and several others.

3. A US national recently employed by ICP to attempt to arrange for the purchase of necessary supplies and spare parts for the oil industry has been traveling throughout the SW part of the US, also attempting to arrange for lubricating oil, but with no success. This individual is such an unsavory character that it is not beyond the bounds of probabdity that he might "go south" with the funds entrusted to him, which are considerable.

4. There are 20 principal types of lubritating oil needed for the total economy, and the actual status of supply of each is not known. They may be completely out of some and have six months supply of others. However, the general story is that there is a "one month supply" of lubricating oil available.

5. Lubricants for power plants, transportation, and commmications are the primary concern. They are in critically short supply in diesel lubricants for engines and heavy equipment, and turbine oil for power plants.

6. There is no lubricating oil manufactured on the island although the Castro regime is trying to set up a plant. However, this is a long range project and takes a lot of time and money.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NOFORN
NO DISSEM ABROAD
LIMITED

LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other ollices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects of reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuale who are normally full-time employees of CIA. ARC, FBI, State of Defense) unless the written permission of the originating office has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central. Reference, CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. 00-B-3,164,653

SUBJECT Friction in New Management of Esso Refinery

DATE DISTR. 23 Aug 60

NO. PAGES One

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. Aug 60 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Havana/Aug 60 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. On 1 Jul 60 the Castro regime intervened the Esso refinary in Cube. The interventor appointed was Commander Olivio Pino, a career officer in the Cuban Navy. The number two man is (fnu) Guardia, about 35, a formar marketing analyst in the office of the company. As of Aug 60 there is evidence of definite friction between Pino and Guardia.

2. Commander Pino is an intelligent, affable, and hospitable parsonality. He wears a business suit, and to the best of my knowledge has never worn a `barbudo' beard.

3. Guardia, on the other hand, is a real hard-core Communist, who feels that Pino is too soft and not revolutionary enough. Guardia wants to take a hard line toward the employees. He wants to cut saleries and "get things in lins." Pino knows that such abrupt changes would result in a drastic drop in Prefficiency, and would alicnate employees who are at least neutral at present.

4. There are indications that Pino recently told Guardia in effect to stay in the office and keep his mouth shat.

5. Pino is directly under Alfredo Gutiérrez of ICP, and both are friends and associates of Fidel Castro, not Raúl, or "Che" Guevara. If something happens to Fidel, both Pino and Gutiérrez would definitely be replaced quickly, because they are not the hard-boiled Party line typa.

-end-

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 7 SEP 1960

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NOFORN

LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other offices producing NIS elemente, and higher echions with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultanta, external projects of reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, ARC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the written permission of the originating ollice has been obtained through the Assistant Director for Central Reference, CIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espronage laws. Tide
18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any nuanner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cuba
REPORT NO. 00-A-3164654

SUBJECT Leonel de Paula Arias, Oil Industry
Procurement Agent (Biographic)
DATE DISTR. 17 Aug 60

NO. PAGES One

REFERENCES

DATE OF
INFO.
Aug 60 and earlier

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.
Havana/Aug 60 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US national, graduate engineer, an official on the staff of a large oil
company.

Source has had years of experience in company operations outside the US
and has been located in Cuba for many years. [Source is normally available
for reinterrogation should this report generate additional requirements.]

1. In Aug 60 the Castro regima sent two representatives to the US to attempt
   to obtain replacement parts and machinery for the oil industry. One of
   these men is Julio Caunedo, on the staff of ICP, and the second is Leonel
   de Paula Arias, a former employee of Esso Standard Oil SA.

2. De Paula is about 28-29 years old, 6'1", 180 lbs. He has black curly hair
   and fair skin. He is married and I believe has one child. He is a Roman
   Catholic; and has never been considered as having any left-wing inclinations.

3. De Paul speaks excellent English, and I believe studied in the US. He has
   a degree in engineering and worked three years with the Esso refinery,
   mainly in maintenance and construction. As of Jul 60 he was section head
   of the Refining Department, Purchasing and Warehousing.

4. The choice of de Paula to go to the US to obtain necessary supplies is
   sound because he is the man which the company would have chosen to do such
   a job if required. He has a reputation of being a good hard worker,
   intelligent and dependable. He has a pleasant personality and handles
   himself very well.

5. De Paula vas considered one of the better men of the plant and could be
   classed as a key technician because of his knowledge, background, and
   ability, and it would definitely hurt the Castro regime if he fled Cuba.
   However, the opportunities for employment in the oil industry in Latin
   America are not good because there is considerable prejudice against
   Cubans on the part of other countries in which there are refining operations.

-end-

6 SEP 1960

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

NOFORN NO DISSEM ABROAD. LIMITED

LIMITED: Dissemination limited to full-time employees of CIA, AEC and FBI: and, within State and Defense, to the intelligence components, other
offices producing NIS elements, and higher echlons with their immediate supporting staffs. Not to be disseminated to consultants, external projects or
reserve personnel on short term active duty (excepting individuals who are normally full-time employees of CIA, AEC, FBI, State or Defense) unless the


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)