# CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM
RELEASE AS SANITIZED
1998

**DRAFT**

ARRB Request CIA-1

The following Directorate of Science and Technology documents can be Released in Full:

HR 1-1la
27 March 1964
p. 15

Mission Statement for the Directorate for Science and Technology

27 March 1964
fig.3, p. 14

Organizational Chart Office of the Deputy Director for Science and Technology

HR 1-1la
10 October 1969
p. 15

Mission Statement DS&T

10 October 1969
fig.3, p. 14

Organizational Chart DS&T

HR 1-1la
10 February 1975
p. 15

Mission Statement DS&T

6 August 1959
p. 21

Mission Statement Photographic Intelligence Center

6 August 1959
fig.9

Organizational Chart Photographic Intelligence Center

HR 1-13h
16 August 1963
p. 49

Mission Statement National Photographic Interpretation Center

16 August 1963
fig.16, p. 48

Organizational Chart NPIC

HR 1-13e
26 September 1966
p. 47

Mission Statement NPIC

26 September 1966
fig.13, p. 46

Organizational Chart NPIC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

HR 1-11e 27 March 1964 Mission Statement
p. 23 Office of Special
Activities

27 March 1964 Organizational Chart
fig.7, p. 22 Office of Special
Activities

The following Directorate of Science and Technology
documents are pending Directorate re-review.

HR 1-11e 10 February 1975 Mission Statement
p. 23 Office of Technical
Service

HR 1 10 February 1975 Organizational Chart
fig.7, p. 22 Office of Technical
Service


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# ORGANIZATION

## 11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology is responsible for conducting basic and applied research and development in the scientific and technical fields in support of the Central Intelligence Agency. This includes responsibility for liaison and contact with the scientific community as well as all Government agencies on matters of science and technology in intelligence as appropriate, and responsibility for furnishing technical planning, programming guidance, and support to other Agency components utilizing science and technology in support of their functions. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology is responsible for the operation of certain technical collection projects and for the research and development of the means used by them for technical collection; for the production of scientific and technical intelligence; and for research, development and, where appropriate, the operation of automatic data processing equipment in support of the Central Intelligence Agency and its mission; and is further responsible for the maintenance and operation of a center in which all information relating to foreign missile and space operations is collated, analyzed, and provided for the Director and other appropriate USIB agencies... The DDS&T shall operate a scientific career service to provide for the enhancement of career opportunities in the CIA, and shall direct and coordinate the Offices of Computer Services, ELINT, Research and Development, Special Activities, Scientific Intelligence, and Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center, and serve as Chairman of the CIA Research and Development Review Board. (See organization chart, figure 3.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

> [Figure: Organization chart]
> The organization chart depicts the structure of the Office of the Deputy Director for Science and Technology. At the top is the "Deputy Director for Science and Technology," with an "Assistant Deputy" directly below. Branching off horizontally from the Deputy Director are "Special Assistant to DDS&T (COMOR)" on the left and "Special Assistant to DDS&T" on the right. Directly under the Deputy Director and Assistant Deputy is the "Executive Officer." From the Executive Officer, the chart branches out to six offices: "Office of Computer Services," "Office of ELINT," "Office of Research and Development," "Office of Special Activities," "Office of Scientific Intelligence," and "Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center."

OFFICE OF
COMPUTER SERVICES

OFFICE OF ELINT

OFFICE OF RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT

OFFICE OF
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

OFFICE OF
SCIENTIFIC
INTELLIGENCE

FOREIGN MISSILE
AND SPACE ANALYSIS
CENTER

HR 1, fig. 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# ORGANIZATION

HR 1-11a

## 11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology is responsible for directing and coordinating the activities of the Offices of Scientific Intelligence, Research and De- velopment, ELINT, Special Activities, Special Projects, and Computer Services, and the Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center. His responsibilities include:

(1) Advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientfilc and technical intelligence matters;

(2) Producing scientific intelligence;

(3) Coordinating, in a staff capacity, existing and proposed Agency research, development, and engineering (RD&E) plans and programs to insure responsiveness to Agency needs;

(4) Conducting liaison with the entire scientific community, including other Government agencies, on matters of science and technology relating to intelligence;

(5) Managing the "R" Career Service.

RESCINDED BY

DATED

Revised: 10 October 1969 (482)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

> [Figure: An organization chart that starts with the Deputy Director for Science and Technology Assistant Deputy and flows down to the Executive Officer. From the Executive Officer there are seven positions: Office of Computer Services, Office of ELINT, Office of Research and Development, Office of Special Projects, Office of Special Activities, Office of Scientific Intelligence, and Foreign Missile and Space Analysis Center.]

DEPUTY DIRECTOR
FOR
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
ASSISTANT DEPUTY

SPECIAL ASSISTANT
TO DDS&T

EXECUTIVE OFFICER

OFFICE OF
COMPUTER
SERVICES

OFFICE OF
ELINT

OFFICE OF
RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT

OFFICE OF
SPECIAL
PROJECTS

OFFICE OF
SPECIAL
ACTIVITIES

OFFICE OF
SCIENTIFIC
INTELLIGENCE

FOREIGN MISSILE
AND SPACE ANALYSIS
CENTER

ORGANIZATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# ORGANIZATION RECOINDED BY HR 1-11a (HIS 16.17)
HR 1-11a
DATE 5 OCT 83

11. OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY

['a. THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY. The Deputy Director for Science and Technology is responsible for directing and coordinating the activities of the Offices of Scientific Intelligence, Research and Development, ELINT, Development and Engineering, Weapons Intelligence, Technical Service, and the National Photographic Interpretation Center. His responsibilities include

(1) advising the Director of Central Intelligence on scientific and technical intelligence matters;

(2) producing scientific intelligence;

(3) managing existing and proposed Agency research, development, and engineering (RD&E) plans and programs to ensure responsiveness to Agency needs;

(4) conducting liaison with the entire scientific community, including other Government agencies, on matters of science and technology relating to Intelligence;

(5) Imagery interpretation and exploitation in correlation with other information to support intelligence production of the Agency and the Intelligence Community;

(6) managing the "R" Career Service.

-- Revised: 10 February 1975 (871)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

REGULATION
NO.1-130

ORGANIZATION
Revised 6 August 1959

## 23. MISSION

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center is charged with producing photographic intelligence and providing photographic intelligence services in support of the Central Intelligence Agency and the intelligence community.

## 24. FUNCTIONS

The Director of the Photographic Intelligence Center shall:

a. Produce photographic Intelligence in support of Agency and national scientific, military, economic, and geographic intelligence objectives.

b. Provide photographic intelligence support and services to the Agency and the intelligence community.

c. Maintain a photographic intelligence facility manned and equipped to provide complete analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

d. Provide accommodations and serices within the center for military-service and other Government representatives engaged in joint exploitation projects.

e. Assist in the evaluation of other intelligence sources through comparison with photographic data.

f. Conduct an active program of research and development in equipment and techniques for providing improved exploitation of photographic intelligence, coordinating such activity as appropriate with Agency, military-service, and other Government components.

g. Conduct liaison with and represent the Agency to Government and private organizations on photographic intelligence activities, coordinating such liaison as appropriate with interested Agency components.

h. Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence collection requirements.

i. Assist in preparation of estimates of foreign capabilities in the field of photographic intelligence.

j. Perform such other functions related to photographic intelligence activities as may be directed.

## 25. ORGANIZATION

See organization chart, figure 9.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE:

H. GATES LLOYD
Acting Deputy Director
(Support)

DISTRIBUTION: AB


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

13-00000

REGULATION
NO. 1-130

PHOTOGRAPHIC INTELLIGENCE CENTER

R 1-130
ORGANIZATION
Revised 6 August 1959

DIRECTOR
OF PHOTOGRAPHIC
INTELLIGENCE CENTER

ADMINISTRATIVE
STAFF

SECURITY STAFF

COORDINATION
CONTROL STAFF

DATA MANAGEMENT
DIVISION

INDUSTRIAL-
GEOGRAPHIC
DIVISION

MILITARY-SCIENTIFIC
DIVISION

TECHNICAL
INTELLIGENCE
ŠERVICES DIVISION

Figure 9


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# ORGANIZATION

h. NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

(1) AUTHORITY. The National Photographic Interpretation Center (NPIC) was established by National Security Council Intelligence Directive No. 8, dated 18 January 1961 and functions under the executive direction of the Director of Central Intelligence.

(2) MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photographic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, furnishing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests as can be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promoting an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the exploitation of photography for intelligence purposes.

(3) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the national intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objectives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible, related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence community photographic intelligence services in support of the national photographic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish additional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data with other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic data.

(f) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support requirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall provide information about such specialized equipment to interested elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center for photographic intelligence units of U. S. Intelligence Board components involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U. S. Intelligence Board, as appropriate, as to any special security controls required.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and committees of the U. S. Intelligence Board on matters related to photographic intelligence exploitation activities.

(4) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 16.

Revised: 16 August 1963


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

![Organization chart of the National Photographic Interpretation Center]

DIRECTOR
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR

CIA/NPIC
DET

DIA/NPIC
DLE

ASSISTANT FOR ADMINISTRATION
ASSISTANT FOR OPERATIONS
ASSISTANT FOR
PHOTOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS
ASSISTANT FOR PLANS
AND DEVELOPMENT

ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
OPERATIONS STAFF
PHOTOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS GROUP
PLANS AND
DEVELOPMENT STAFF

TECHNICAL
INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION
PUBLICATIONS
DIVISION
COLLATERAL
SUPPORT
DIVISION
PRODUCTION
SERVICES
DIVISION

Revised: 16 August 1963


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# ORGANIZATION

e. NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

(1) MISSION. The National Photographic Interpretation Center is charged with producing photographic interpretation reports, providing photographic intelligence services in support of the national intelligence effort, furnishing such additional support to departmental and Agency interests as can be provided without degradation of national responsibilities, and promoting an integrated and coordinated interdepartmental effort in the exploitation of photography for intelligence purposes. (NSCID No. 8)

(2) FUNCTIONS. The National Photographic Interpretation Center shall:

(a) Produce photographic interpretation reports in support of the national intelligence effort and approved Priority National Intelligence Objectives to include preliminary rapid interpretation of photographic detail and comprehensive photographic analysis, utilizing, whenever possible, related collateral information.

(b) Provide as a service of common concern to the intelligence community photographic intelligence services in support of the national photographic intelligence effort, and, whenever practicable, furnish additional support to departmental and Agency interests.

(c) Maintain on a selective basis a consolidated central file of photographic data.

(d) Arrange for the exchange of photographs and photographic data with other photographic collections in the intelligence community.

(e) Make recommendations where appropriate to facilitate the coordinated development of compatible codes, indexes, and mechanized systems for the efficient recovery, selection, and collation of available photographic data.

(f) Prepare photographic and photogrammetric intelligence support requirements.

(g) Provide analytic and technical photographic intelligence services in support of special collection and exploitation requirements.

(h) Engage in or sponsor, as appropriate, the development of specialized equipment for the intelligence exploitation of photography, and shall provide information about such specialized equipment to interested elements of the intelligence community for their own possible use or further adaptation.

(i) Provide and maintain accommodations and facilities within the Center for photographic intelligence units of U.S. Intelligence Board components involved in national and departmental activities.

(j) Examine and make recommendations to the U.S. Intelligence Board, as appropriate, as to any special security controls required for photographic and related materials.

(k) Consult, as appropriate, with individual departments, agencies, and committees of the U.S. Intelligence Board on matters related to photographic intelligence exploitation activities.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 13.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# NATIONAL PHOTOGRAPHIC INTERPRETATION CENTER

> [Figure: An organizational chart]
> This is an organizational chart for the National Photographic Interpretation Center, starting from the top with the Director of the center and then branching down to various assistant positions and divisions.

DIRECTOR
NATIONAL
PHOTOGRAPHIC
INTERPRETATION CENTER

SUPPORT STAFF

ASSISTANT FOR
PLANNING AND
MANAGEMENT

ASSISTANT FOR
OPERATIONS

ASSISTANT FOR
PHOTOGRAPHIC
ANALYSIS

ASSISTANT FOR
TECHNICAL
DEVELOPMENT

TECHNICAL
INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION

PUBLICATIONS
DIVISION

INFORMATION
PROCESSING
DIVISION

COLLATERAL
SUPPORT
DIVISION

PRODUCTION
SERVICES
DIVISION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# ORGANIZATION

e. OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

(1) MISSION. The Assistant Director for Special Activities is charged with the development and operation of certain highly sensitive technical collection programs.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Assistant Director for Special Activities, shall:

(a) Develop and operate special projects for the collection of intelligence by advanced technical means.

(b) Stimulate the exploitation by the Agency of advanced technology to further the Office's mission.

(c) Conduct research and development in methods for conveying advanced technical collection devices.

(d) Establish and maintain liaison with appropriate civilian and Government agencies in order to keep abreast of developments which might affect the Office's activities, capabilities, or requirements.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 7.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

OFFICE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES

SPECIAL ASSISTANT
FOR LIAISON

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
FOR
SPECIAL ACTIVITIES
DEPUTY ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
EXECUTIVE OFFICER

SECURITY STAFF

PROGRAMS STAFF

DEPUTY FOR TECHNOLOGY

DEPUTY FOR FIELD ACTIVITIES

ADVANCED
PROJECTS
DIVISION

DEVELOPMENT
DIVISION

ENGINEERING
ANALYSIS
DIVISION

CONTRACTS
DIVISION

SUPPORT
DIVISION

OPERATIONS
DIVISION

INTELLIGENCE
DIVISION

MATERIEL
DIVISION

COMMUNICATIONS
DIVISION

> [Figure] Organization chart of the Office of Special Activities, showing the hierarchy from the Assistant Director for Special Activities down to the various divisions such as Advanced Projects, Development, Engineering Analysis, Contracts, Support, Operations, Intelligence, Materiel, and Communications.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

ORGANIZATION RECCINDED BY *HRI-11e (HIS 1617)*
DATE *5 OCT 83* HR 1-11e

e. OFFICE OF TECHNICAL SERVICE

(1) MISSION. The Director of Technical Service is responsible for close operational support of DDO operations through the development, engineering, testing and evaluation, production, storage, and deployment of equipment and techniques in the fields of audio, authentication, chemical communications, operational disguise, tracking and locating, nuclear detection, visual operations, behavioral activities, graphics, document analysis, etc.
The Office of Technical Service evaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence Community as well as conducting analysis in the areas of operational support.

(2) FUNCTIONS. The Director of Technical Service

(a) provides equipment, personnel services, and materials in direct support of DDO operations, and certain approved overseas operations of other member agencies of the U.S. Intelligence Community;

(b) develops, engineers, tests, and manages the production and stock storage of technical equipment for support of clandestine technical operations;

(c) evaluates foreign finds for the Intelligence Community, and performs such other services as may be directed by the DCI.

(3) ORGANIZATION. See organization chart, figure 7.

SECRET

10 February 1975 (871)

E2 IMPDET
CL BY: 059687

23


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)