# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

16 July 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR : CCS/PRG

SUBJECT : Return of Alias Documents

Returned herewith are alias documents which have been issued
to identity in the aliases of Miguel P. COSSIO Diego S. MARDONES
(Daniel Suarez MORENO; Simon S. MARTINEZ) These documents have been
utilized by identity for operational purposes. However, as he is
due to retire on 31 July 1975, they are being returned to you for
final disposition. The documents returned are as follows:

Miguel P. COSSIO (A)

CIA Credential #1716 *FORWARDED SEPARATELY*

Social Security Card

Continental Insurance Companies Card

Washington Theater Club Card

(RCA) Record Club Card

Diego S. MARDONES (A)

Dade Country Library Card

(AAA) Card

Social Security Card

Humble Travel Club, Inc. Card

Pan American Bank Card

(ABC) Card

Daniel SUAREZ Moreno (A)

(Panimanian Passport)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

07
(Simon S. MARTINEZ) (A)
31 Health Cert. #41716)
29 Nat. Science Book Club
29 AM Bowling Congress Card)
31 (SS) Card
GEICO) Card
10 Ft. Wash, Yacht & Tennis Club
29(DC Nat'l) Bk
29 (Best Products Co., Inc.)
Special Rep Credential #389
Calling Cards

2. It is noted that identity also has a (Mexican) Passport in the alias of (Diego S. MARDONES MARTINEZ). This document is currently maintained by identity who is on TDY in (Buenos Aires, Argentina.) The document will be retrieved from identity upon his arrival at Head16-29 quarters and will be returned separately to CCS.

3. Records available in L.A. Division also reflect that identity was issued a (Maryland) Driver License in the alias of 07 (Miguel P. COSSIO) and a Florida Driver License in the alias of 07 (Diego S. MARDONES). These two documents were reportedly returned to the Office of Technical Services in April 1974.

4. Should any further questions arise relative to this matter, please direct your inquiries to undersigned on extention X6300 or R1546.

Attachment:
As Stated

![signature of Joseph F. King]
Joseph F. King
Chief, LA Security

Identity:
David Morales

O/C 39418

SECRET/RYBAT


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)