# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

FROM: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: SAUREL, Jean K.

DOB: 17 December 1929
POB: Port-au-Prince, Haiti
VMA: Haitian

1. Reference is made to the I-57 form regarding Subject who entered the United States on 2 October 1964. The files of this office contain the following pertinent information.

2. According to another office of this Agency, a Pan American Airways employee who spends considerable time in Haiti stated that during her many trips there she learned Subject has demanded and received things from members of the Ton Ton Macoutes (TTM, President DUVALIER's Internal Security Force). One incident occurred at a DUVALIER rally held at the Presidential Palace on 1 May 1964. A palace guard refused to allow Subject to leave the grounds while someone was speaking. SAUREL called a member of the TTM, demanded to be released, and was allowed to leave. On 20 September 1964, a subsource of unknown reliability, whose family was well ac-
   quainted with Subject, commented that Subject was a member of the TTM.

3. According to a report received in September 1964 from an untested source, Subject, a former employee of Pan American Airways in Port-au-Prince who was recently named Director of the Haitian Tourist Bureau in New York, is an agent of President DUVALIER. DUVALIER is counting heavily on SAUREL because of the latter's experience in dealing with American personalities and situations.

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED TO ANYONE WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

4. In a report dated 23 June 1966, a Pan American Airways employee who spends considerable time in Haiti advised another office of this Agency she attended a cocktail party in Port-au-Prince in late November 1963. Other guests included Jean and Suzanne SAUREL and George and Jeanne DEMCHRENSHILDT. [ This office has previously furnished the Federal Bureau of Investigation with information concerning the DEMOHRENSCHILDT's (file 100-32965) who were acquainted with Lee Harvey OSWALD. ] Although it was not clear to Source if Subject and his wife were personally acquainted with the DEMCHRENSCHILDT's; the SAURELS provided the following information about George DEMOHRENSCHILDT at the party:

a. He is of Polish descent or citizenship.

b. At the time of the KENNEDY assassination, he had a $300 thousand contract with the Haitian Government to explore the country's natural resources.

c. He is said to be a geologist.

5. It is requested that the above information not be disseminated further without the prior approval of this Agency.

CBCI-316/00444-65

RID/CE: JMA/JB/ab

Based on: MIM 469-64 (Marilyn Wilcox)
Mrs. A. LEVEQUE Bernadine)
HTPA 1414 (EVLEMON-5) extract of DCE 17071 (WILCOX) provided by Paul Hartman, CI/RA

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED TO ANYONE WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)