# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

L February 1960

MICRA.DER. FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Kecting with(Henry P. Lopez) at te Statler-Hilton Hotel on 1 February 1.950 from 1000 hours to 1530 hours.

1. Those present were ..rs. Vidal FP/PA, (Alexander Hunter) (Williams) PP/EAD, Charles Penney (Twiss) WII/PW, and (Philip Toomey) (Thompson) H/4/PP.

2. Kr. (Lopez) jave a report of his contacts in Cuba after receiving hig notes which were brought up bar. (Noel) and given to Mr. (Lopez) by Coomer Lopez said that he had given biographical sketches of Echevarria, Rasco, Laureano Batista, Martinez Fraga, auben de Leon and Sanchez Arengo to the Station representative. he had also turned over a report of Martinoz Fraga on the aims of the Recareracion de la Revolucion.

3. Mr. (Lopez) report was taped and a transcript will be forwarded to by PP/PA.

4. Specific recomendations made by ir. Lopez) included having Herbert Hatthows go to Havana and try to influence Castro. Kattheus has a good reputation throughout the 25th of July Movement and could help in an approach to Castro. A visit by Ei Furrow to do a broadcast on Cuba was also recommended. Nr.(Lopez) feels that Castro will be in power for a long time to coe and that we should try to influence him. He is seriously affected by any defections and these right be encouraged. Castro can be hit by defections of overworked and countermanded officials. Two men who were mentioned as ripe for defection are fufo in Hacienda and Cepero in Comercio. Lopez) also recommended contact with Padre Alberto de Castro in Caracas. Mis padre was fcrrerly Pidel's instructor. When Fidel was in Caracas he was scolded by Padre Castro whom Fidel treated with great respect according to Zosco. The Paare and Fidel spent about one and one half hours alone together at this time. This priest should be checked as a possible influence on Fidel. The possibility of a split between Fidel and Raul should be exploited. Raul is cold ard mean and the fact that he is Fidol's brother does not carr too much weight.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)