# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CONTACT REPORT

AGENT: IUSTEER/1 DATE: 30 June 1972

PLACE: Westward llo Restaurant, CASE OFFICER: Peter S. JASUTIS
SW 8 St. and 49th Ave.

1. Contact was initiated with IUSTEER/1 to discuss Roberto
   do Cardenas. Cardonas was previously described by IUSTEER/1 as
   an individual who once worked for the Agency both in Miami and
   the Congo. He is a friend of Barker, of the Washington breakin
   scandal. Cardenas was unemployed until early 1972 but now,
   suddenly, he is traveling to South America and has become af-
   fluent. IUSTEER/1 speculated that Cardenas may be dealing in
   narcotics.

2. Also note a New York Times article of 28 June concerning
   the Washington breakin affair. This article states that an
   individual appeared on the Miami scene about two months ago and
   recruited the team for the breakin. The recruiter was described
   as a "pipe smoker" who used a code name during the recruitment3.
   Cardenas smokes a pipe all the time according to JUSTEER/1.

3. IUSTEER/1 is sceptical of the NYT article, as written,
   because in his opinion no Cuban could be recruited by an unknown
   individual using a code name. Considering the clandestine/
   operational mentality of the many Cubans in the Miami area,
   recruitments could only be made by a known recruiter with ade-
   quate bona fides.

4. Information on Cardenas supplied by IUSTEER/1

a. Cardenas was born about 1919. In 1954 he was a
captajn with Cubana Airlines. In 1954-55 he was arrested in
Havana by a Hajor Ochoa for smuggling cocaine. Due to political
pull Cardenas was not prosecuted but was fired from his position.
He retired to his farm in Cuba from 1954-1959.

b. From 1959 to 1960 he was in the Castro airforce.
There he met Fiorini, also involved in the Washington breakin
scandal. In 1960, in Miami, IUSTEER/1 was visiting in the
Fiorini home when Cardenas dropped in. Also present was
DIAZ LANZ, former Chief of the Castro airforce. Cardenas was


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

- 2 -

then working closely with Barker in Cuban exile (unity)
activity on behalf of Artime. At the time Cardenas met
IUSTEER/1 at the Figrini home, he told IUSTEER/1 to go to
a house on Brickell Ave. IUSTEER/1 did and there he met
Artime for the first time.

c. (At this time a Case Officer named "Jimmy" was
handling both Barker and Cardenas. "Jimmy" spoke excellent
Cuban Spanish.)

d. From 1962 to 1965 Cardenas worked with the Agency
under the cover firm Consolidated Engineering. (Cardonas'
Case Officer during this period was Chris Frederick.)

e. In 1965 the Agency sent Cardenas to IUSTEER/1 for
duty in the Congo. In the Congo Cardenas claimed to have a
heart attack and was hospitalized. He was later proven med-
ically sound and released from his Congo assignment.

f. During 1967-1968 Cardenas drove a truck in the
Miami area. Between 1969 and 1970-71 Cardenas sold mutual
funds in South America (GRAMCO and others). This ended when
the funds went bankrupt.

g. In 1971 Cardenas was economically down. In early
1972 he started traveling again and became affluent. IUSTEER/1
believes Cardenas is involved in drugs.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)