14-00000
104-10213-10002
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Related Mission Directive for Mexico

1. Attached is the revised Related Mission Directive for Mexico.

2. Your approval is requested.

J. C. King
Chief, 4H Division

CONCUR:

Chief, DD/PD

Floyd George
Chief, CA

Chief, CI

APPROVED:

Richard Helms
Deputy Director (Plans)
3 JUL 1961
Date Approved

24 January 1961
Distribution:
Orig & 2 - WHD
1 - PG
1 - CA
1 - OI
1 - SR
1 - FI/Plans
1 - FI/INT
1 - RI

COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# RELATED MISSION DIRECTIVE FOR MEXICO

1. GENERAL PROVISIONS

A. National Policy. The long-range national policy objectives of the U.S. Government toward Mexico are to reduce to an ineffectual level the influence of international Communism, to encourage democratic government, and to keep the Mexican government friendly and favorably inclined toward U. S. policies. Further guidance is given in the current CCB Regional Operations Plan for Latin America.

B. Operational Emphasis. The Station's primary emphasis will continue to be placed on clandestine collection operations and covert action operations against the Sino-Soviet bloc, Cuban, and Communist elements in Mexico.

C. Changes in the AMD. This basic policy instruction for activities in Mexico has been revised in light of the Station's last Annual Assessment of Progress Report and to reflect more accurately operational conditions, capabilities and direction. In view of the importance and threat presented by Communist Cuba to U. S. interests in Latin America, coverage of Cuban revolutionary activities in Mexico has been made a specific requirement under Priority A. Priority B objectives and tasks include refinements of desired efforts and also provide for covert action operations against Cuban targets in Mexico. The former task for production of action pictures and their distribution has been deleted, as it is no longer a valid requirement; two former tasks pertaining to the possible use of foreign diplomats have been combined; a task to develop young potential political leaders (ZREAGER) has been added. Two previous Priority C objectives have been eliminated, as there is no established Mexican intelligence service, and the Station regularly reports on activities of the security services. Coverage of Chinese Communists has been raised to Priority B coincident with the elimination of the former Priority C section.

D. Contingency Reporting. In addition to the specific objectives set forth in Section II, the Station will from time to time be called on to attempt to satisfy intelligence


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Guides and Intelligence Directives, but it is expected that these requirezents be satisfied utilizing existing assets. Of particular interest ca & continuing basis is information on: (a) any indications that Nexico may be used as a base for clandestine activity directed against the U. S. (CI Bock Messages 23 and 115); (b) activities of non-bloc intelligence services, especially those that are potentially harmful to U. 3. interests; (c) the plotting of revolutionary groups according to their current importance in attempts to overthrow the regines of their respective Latin American countries; (d) the current alignment and activities of political forces with the potential for assuming control of the Mexican Government; (e) U. S. Communists residing in Mexico; and (f) the Spanish Communist group.

It will be noted that certain previous contingency reporting requirements have been, amended as follows: The former levy for reporting on the stability of the Hexican Government has been changed to a more realistic and meaningful statement as reflected by (d) above. This modification is appropriate, as political changes in Mexico are most likely to occur within the framework of constitutionality. The previcus charge for reporting on secret shipments of strategic materials fria Mexicc to bloc countries is no longer specifically required and has been doleted.

## II. OBJECTIVES

### PRIORITY A

1.  Cbtain information on Sino-Soviet bice plans and activi-
    ties in Mexico, including those of bloc intelligence
    services.

a.  Continue and, where possible, increase physical and
technical surveillance of bloc installations and
residences.

b. Through controlled agent assets, identify and monitor
the activities of bloc personnel, if conditions
warrant, attempt recruitment or defection of bloc
personnel.

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

c. Continue CI operations against bico inteligence
personnel.

2. Seek to reduce and, if possible, eliminate Communist
   and leftist control or influence in key goverisontal
   and non-governmental organizations, political parties,
   mass media outlets, and other elements that influence
   public or official opinion and policies.

a. Develop political action penetration agents in key
functional groupe, such as students, teachers and
organized labor, in order to alsrupt and reduce
their capacity for carrying out action harmful to
U. S. objectives and interests.

b. Expose and discredit illegal cr subversive 3120-
Soviet bloc activities and representatives in Mexico,
as wel as the activities atul poracanel of inter-
national and Iccal Ccamunist front organizations..

c. Identify, discredit, and if possible eliminate
Cormists and pre-Communists from strategic positions
in goverment, educational institutions, state-
controlled industrial end agricultural enterprises,
laber unions, and student organizations.

d. Provide support and give guidance to individuals. and...
organizations that can be induced to produce and dis-
seminate anti-Communist, pre-Free Horid propaganda
via redio, television, newspapers, or other media,
and carry cut political action operations against
Communist or other anti-U. S. elements.

e. Identify, develop, and utilize important non-Communist
political, business or civic leaders to carry cut pro-
paganda, economic or political actions egainst Coram-
unist influence and induce them to support views
coinciding with U. S. Goverment policy intercats.

f. Continue to support and guide anti-Coremnist youth
and student organizations, publications or agents,
and when necessary, develop additional assets in key
schools in Mexico City and selected provinces.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

8. Develop and support covert press assets in the staffs of influential newspapers.

h. Develop access to individuals and organizations in the labor field and support non-Communist leaders and groups in key unions.

3. Obtain information on the organizational structure, key personnel, financing, covert plans and activities of the Communist Party of Mexico (PCM), Communist front organizations and groups, especially the Partido Popular Socialista (PPS), and non-Communist and/or anti-J. S. groups that may be susceptible to exploitation by International Communism.

a. Exploit and extend existing penetrations in the PCA and the PPS.

b. Maintain penetrations of the PCM and seek to penetrate the anti-EMCINA wing of the PCM.

c. Develop and, if conditions warrant, recruit a key source in the Workers' University capable of monitoring cultural contacts between the University and bloc diplomatic installations.

d. Continue to monitor the activities of selected Communist-influenced labor unions and front groups through the penetration in the PPS, if conditions warrant, make selected recruitments in the unions or groups.

4. Continue to obtain information on Cuban Revolutionary activities in Mexico and support U. S. Government efforts against the CASTRO regime.

a. Continue to conduct penetration operations of Cuban Embassy and induce defections of Cuban diplomats.

b. Recruit agents in Mexico for operational use in Cuba.

c. Secure support of high Mexican Government officials for the conduct of operations against Cuba.

d. Continue to provide operational support for activities


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

directed against the CASTRO regine in Cuta. e. Utilize propaganda media, political action assets, and other covert means to combat the influence of Cuban revolutionary ideologies in Mexico,

PRIORITY D

1. Combat ultra-nationalistic and anti-U. S. activities in Rexico, and propagandize the dangers of Coraminiam.

a. Utilise existing media and political action assets to combat anti-U. S. propaganda or activities.

b. Utilize existing media and political action assets to prevent or negate collaboration between ultra-nationalisti and Consusunists.

c. Utilize media and political action assets to prevent or negate the socio-economic and cultural peretration plans or activities of the Sino-Soviet bloc.

d. Spot and develop for future covert collatoration young local figures who show potential for political leader- ship and who may be influenced to beocze generaliy favorable to V. S. interests.

2. Obtain information on the secret intenticris and activities of the Mexican Ocveriment in foreign affairs, particular.y toward the U. S., the Sino-Soviet bloc, and Cuta.

a. Continue to develop and influence high level contacts in the Hexican Ocvernment, particularly the Office of the President and the Foreign Rinistry.

3. Collect information on the Sino-Soviet bloc.

a. Continue penetration of airline and steamship offices and official government agencies to obtain advance information on travellers.

b. Recruit or obtain the willing collaboration of selected travellers to bloo ocuntries, especially those who will remain in bloc countries for an extended period and who may be on scientific missions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

c. Recruit third naticaals and Latin American diplomats to be assigned or traneferred to blee countries.

d. Cbtain communications intelligence on blos diplomatic traffic.

4. Obtain information ca the Chinese Coccanists in Mexico.

a. Spot, assess and recruit or develop scurces in the Chinese community.

b. Exploit the Gobernacion files on Chinese living in Maxico and effoot penetration of the SIMACP.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)