104-10326-10060 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM
IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY : CIA
RECORD NUMBER : 104-10326-10060
RECORD SERIES : JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER : PROJECT FILES

Date: 11/29/99
Page: 1

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR : CIA
FROM : DIRECTOR
TO : WITHHELD
TITLE : WITHHELD
DATE : 01/19/96
PAGES : 6
SUBJECTS : ESCALANTE FONT

DOCUMENT TYPE : PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : SECRET
RESTRICTIONS : 1A, 1B
CURRENT STATUS : RELEASED WITH DELETIONS
DATE OF LAST REVIEW : 02/04/99
OPENING CRITERIA :
COMMENTS : JFK-M-11:F2 1999.02.04.09:47:25:750120: CIA
CORRESPONDENCE RE ARRB

CLASSIFIED
ATTACHMENT

[R] - ITEM IS RESTRICTED

NW 54559 DocId:32403909 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET
MHFNO: 96-2899455
SENSIND: INTEL
PAGE: 1
// SOP#103.
SECRET
FRP: 4,
INTEL
CONF: NR/ECC INFO: CIC/AG, CIC/TA, CTC/COPS, CTC/IFC, CTC/TRGCTB,
CTCARCHIVE, DDO/TMO, DDO/WO, EUR/BCIR, EUR/IB, EUR/RR, HQDISSEM, IID,
IID/NOPRNT, IIDIRPS, INT/CC, INT/RQ, INT/RR, LA/COG, LA/COGEO, LA/COGIO,
LA/COGRR, LA/COGSO, LA/RR, MDSX, NCREPORT, NR/EX, NR/NOPRNT, NRDORECORD,
ODPD, ODPR, ORMS/TMO, SOGMB, FILE, CE/EE/CS, CTC/TRG, DC/LA, IMS/IRS (5/P)
96 2899455 ISR PAGE 001
TOT: 190508Z JAN 96 DIRECTOR 604606
SECRET
INTEL 190508Z DIRECTOR 604606
TO: HQSDISSEM.

WNINTEL DEFERRED INTEL MXBLAZE MXSANCTUARY SLMERLIN ZRWAHOO

SUBJECT: DOCOPY OF INTEL CABLE
95 2641513 ISR PAGE 001 IN 2641513
TOR: 1920102 DEC 95 HOUS 24338
TD-OO-K-323/01241-96
СТО-08768

CITE HOUSTON 24338 ZNY XXXXX

TO: DIRECTOR INFO MIAMI, HAVANA, MADRID, LONDON, NEW YORK,
WDC, QUARRY HEIGHTS.

WNINTEL DEFERRED INTEL MXBLAZE MXSANCTUARY SLMERLIN ZRWAHOO

SUPDATA: ZRWAHOO FOR HQS REVIEW. SEE ALSO HOUSTON 24339 WHICH
DOES NOT AFFECT DISSEM. LIAISON: OKAY FOR PASSAGE TO JLLAD. DECL:
X1 CL REASON 1.5(C) DRV FROM HUM-4.

1. СТО-08768 TD-OO-K-323/01241-96
2. CUB-04298
3. LA
4. 0569675
5. N/A
6. INDEX: DEFER
7. FILE: CU04298
8. ANTWINE
9. DIRECTOR 446882
10. N/A
11. 83108
12. HOUSTON
13. NR/ECC
    14-17. N/A
18. POL
19. GOOD

SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403909 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-2899455 SENSIND: INTEL PAGE: 2

FILED: 192004Z DEC 95

DO STATIONS: HOUSTON 24338

IID COMMENT: PLS REVIEW THE FIELD DISSEM LINE AND THE PLA (PLAIN
LANGUAGE ADDRESS) SECTION. THESE TWO SECTIONS MUST/MUST MATCH.
CORRECT AS APPROPRIATE. KCO. RO REPLY: I FORWARDED DO COPY TO
LA/COG RO EMPAKERIS FOR GUIDANCE, SINCE HE ORIGINALLY PRESCRIBED
THE ADDRESSING FOR THIS REPORT. HE REPLIED THAT HE WAS STUMPED,
DID NOT KNOW WHAT WAS WRONG, SAID THE REPORT HAD LA'S STANDARD
CUBA DISSEM LIST. REGARDS, HOWARD. (X-43770),

SECRET WNINTEL NOFORN

CIA

TO: NPIC WASHDC, DIRNSA, SECSTATE WASHDC//INR//, DIA
WASHINGTON DC, DA WASHINGTON DC, CNO WASHINGTON DC, CMC WASHINGTON
DC, CSAF WASHINGTON DC, TREASURY DEPT, FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION, WHITE HOUSE SITUATION ROOM, DOEHQ//IN//, DEPT OF
JUSTICE COMMAND CENTER WASH DC//OIPR//, DIRNACIC, SECRET
SERVICE//ID//, ONI WASHINGTON DC, COGARD INTELCOORDCEN WASHINGTON
DC, DEPT OF TRANSPORTATION//S-60//, COMCOGARD GRU KEY WEST FL,
COMLANTAREA COGARD NEW YORK NY//AI//, USCINCSO QUARRY HEIGHTS PM,
USCINCACOM NORFOLK VA, AIC NORFOLK VA, COMJSOC FT BRAGG NC//J2//,
USCINCTRANS INTEL CEN SCOTT AFB IL, USCINCSOC INTEL OPS CEN
MACDILL AFB.

SECRE T/WNINTEL/NOFORN
SERIAL: TD-OO-K-323/01241-96
PASS: NSA FOR ZKZK OO DLS DE (FOR NSOC).

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WARNING: INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

REPORT CLASS SECRET--WNINTEL--NOFORN

DIST: 18 JANUARY 1996

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: SUSPECTED CUBAN SECURITY PENETRATIONS OF THE CUBAN HUMAN
RIGHTS/DISSIDENT MOVEMENT IN CUBA

DOI: 1992 - MID AUGUST 1995

SOURCE: CUB-04298 IS A MID-LEVEL TECHNICIAN WHO HAD EXTENSIVE
CONTACT WITH DISSIDENT GROUPS IN CUBA. UNLESS OTHERWISE
NOTED, INFORMATION REPORTED IS FROM DIRECT OBSERVATION
OR GOOD SECONDARY SOURCES. SOURCE DID NOT REPORT A
SECURITY CLEARANCE.

SUMMARY: LEADERS OF THE CUBAN CIVIC CURRENT (CORRIENTE CIVICA
CUBANA), A DISSIDENT GROUP IN CUBA, SUSPECTED THREE MEMBERS OF THE

NW 54559 DocId:32403909 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MHFNO: 96-2899455
SECRET
SENSIND: INTEL
PAGE: 3

GROUP, AND THE FORMER HUSBAND OF A GROUP MEMBER, OF BEING CUBAN
SECURITY SOURCES OR PENETRATIONS. THE LEADERS OF THE DISSIDENT
GROUP DID NOT HAVE ANY SPECIFIC EVIDENCE THAT THE INDIVIDUALS WERE
CONNECTED TO CUBAN SECURITY, BUT INCIDENTS IN WHICH EACH OF THESE
INDIVIDUALS WERE INVOLVED LED THE LEADERSHIP TO BECOME SUSPICIOUS
OF THEM.

TEXT:

1.  AS OF MID AUGUST 1995, THE LEADERSHIP OF THE CUBAN
    DISSIDENT GROUP, CUBAN CIVIC CURRENT (CORRIENTE CIVICA CUBANA -
    CCC), WAS CERTAIN THAT THE CUBAN HUMAN RIGHTS AND DISSIDENT
    MOVEMENTS HAD ATTRACTED THE ATTENTION OF CUBAN SECURITY, PRIMARILY
    THE MINISTRY OF INTERIOR (MININT), AND THEY BELIEVED THAT MININT
    WAS TRYING TO PENETRATE DISSIDENT ORGANIZATIONS. CCC MEMBERS
    CONCERNED OVER THE GROUP'S SECURITY TAGGED FOUR INDIVIDUALS WHO
    EXHIBITED BEHAVIOR OR ACTIVITIES IN THE HUMAN RIGHTS OR DISSIDENT
    ORGANIZATIONS THAT SUGGESTED THAT THEY WERE ASSOCIATED WITH
    MININT. THE INDIVIDUALS WERE JORGE ((GONZALES)), VLADIMIRO
    ((ROCA)) ATUNEZ, GUILLERMO ((FERNANDEZ)) DONATES, AND RAFAEL
    ((ALCIDES)).

2.  THE CCC LEADERSHIP WAS VIRTUALLY CERTAIN THAT JORGE
    GONZALEZ, OF THE CHRISTIAN LIBERATION MOVEMENT (MOVIMIENTO
    CRISTIANO LIBERACION), HEADED BY OSVALDO ((PAYA)) SARDINAS, WAS A
    CUBAN SECURITY PENETRATION. DIRECTORS OF THE CCC NOTED THAT HIS
    QUESTIONS WERE USUALLY SO PENETRATING AS TO SUGGEST INSIDE
    KNOWLEDGE. A TRUSTED MEMBER OF THE CCC WAS DIRECTED AGAINST
    GONZALEZ, PROVIDING HIM WITH MOSTLY BOGUS INFORMATION KNOWN ONLY
    TO THE CCC MEMBER AND THE CCC LEADERSHIP. RECORDS OF THE DATE THE
    INFORMATION WAS PASSED WERE KEPT BY THE CCC. THE INFORMATION
    LATER SURFACED THROUGH MININT DURING THE COURSE OF MININT
    INTERVIEWS OF DETAINED CCC LEADERS. THE CCC LEADERSHIP BELIEVED
    THAT GONZALEZ MIGHT HAVE BEEN IN VENEZUELA AS OF MID AUGUST 1995.

3.  VLADIMIRO ROCA OF THE CUBAN DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
    CURRENT (CORRIENTE SOCIALISTA DEMOCRATICA CUBANA), WHO IS ONE OF
    THE CLOSEST ASSOCIATES OF ELIZARDO ((SANCHEZ)) SANTACRUZ OF THE
    CUBAN COMMISSION FOR HUMAN RIGHTS AND NATIONAL RECONCILIATION
    (COMISION CUBANA DE DERECHOS HUMANOS Y RECONCILIACION NACIONAL),
    CAME UNDER CCC SUSPICION AFTER AN INCIDENT IN 1992. IN THAT YEAR,
    SHORTLY AFTER THE LETTER BY CUBAN PROFESSIONALS TO THE IBERIAN
    AMERICAN SUMMIT WAS PRESENTED, CCC CHIEF ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
    VLADIMIR ((MARTINEZ-AMORES)) ALVAREZ WAS VISITED AT HIS HOME BY
    TWO MININT OFFICERS. THE TWO OFFICERS WERE NAMED "MARCIAL" AND
    "DANIEL." THE SENIOR OF THE TWO, DANIEL, REMARKED THAT ELIZARDO
    SANCHEZ WAS A U.S. INTELLIGENCE AGENT. IN DUE COURSE THIS
    INFORMATION WAS PASSED BY MARTINEZ-AMORES TO SANCHEZ IN THE
    PRESENCE OF VLADIMIRO ROCA. AROUND DECEMBER 1992, DURING AN
    "INTERVIEW" BY MININT OF A CCC MEMBER, MARCIAL MADE A STATEMENT
    THAT INDICATED THAT HE KNEW THAT HIS INITIAL REMARKS TO
    MARTINEZ-AMORES ABOUT SANCHEZ HAD BEEN PASSED TO SANCHEZ. WHEN IT
    WAS REPORTED TO SANCHEZ THAT MININT HAD MADE THIS STATEMENT, HE
    ATTRIBUTED IT TO TECHNICAL COVERAGE IN HIS HOME ASSOCIATED WITH AN
    LP OPPOSITE HIS HOME. THE CCC WAS NOT CONVINCED BY THIS
    EXPLANATION AND THEREAFTER KEPT ROCA AT A DISTANCE, AS THEY
    ASSUMED THAT IT WAS ROCA WHO HAD PASSED THE INFORMATION TO THE
    SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-2899455 SENSIND: INTEL PAGE: 4

MININT. (SOURCE COMMENT: ONLY ROCA, SANCHEZ AND MARTINEZ-AMORES KNEW THAT SANCHEZ HAD BEEN TOLD, AND BOTH SANCHEZ AND MARTINEZ-AMORES WERE TRUSTED MEMBERS OF THE CCC.)

4. CCC'S SUSPICIONS CONCERNING ROCA HAVE GROWN STRONGER IN LIGHT OF THE FOLLOWING INCIDENTS:

A. CCC MEMBER FELIX ((DIAZ)) WAS DENIED A REQUEST FOR A VISA TO THE U.S. BY THE U.S. INTERESTS SECTION. THE REPORTED GROUNDS FOR DENIAL WERE THAT DIAZ HAD NOT SUBMITTED SUFFICIENT EVIDENCE TO JUSTIFY THE VISA. ROCA WAS HEARD TO TELL DIAZ THAT HIS REQUEST HAD BEEN UNDERMINED BY FELIX ((BONNE)) CARCASSES, THE CCC LEADER. BONNE DENIED THIS ACTION, SAYING THAT HE WOULD HAVE HAD NO INTEREST IN UNDERMINING DIAZ.

B. IN EARLY 1993, JORGE GONZALEZ, A CLOSE FRIEND OF ROCA, INFORMED THE CCC LEADERSHIP THAT AN AUTHORESS, IDENTIFIED AS MARIANA ((BADELL)) (PHONETIC), WAS PREPARING A BIOGRAPHY OF CUBAN PRESIDENT FIDEL ((CASTRO)) AND WANTED TO MEET BONNE. THE REASON FOR SUCH A MEETING IN CONNECTION WITH A BIOGRAPHY OF CASTRO WAS NOT CLEAR, BUT THE MEETING TOOK PLACE IN GONZALEZ' HOME, AND INCLUDED BADELL, BONNE, AND MARTINEZ-AMORES. THE CCC LEADERS NOTED THAT BADELL APPEARED TO BE UNCOMFORTABLE DURING THE COURSE OF THE MEETING. SHE STATED THAT SHE HAD HAD LUNCH WITH AN OFFICIAL OF THE SPANISH EMBASSY IN HAVANA, WHO WAS ASSISTING HER WITH THE BIOGRAPHY OF CASTRO BY PUTTING HER IN TOUCH WITH ONE CARLOS ALBERTO ((MONTANER)) IN MADRID, WHO WOULD EDIT THE BOOK. SHE DECLINED TO IDENTIFY THE SPANISH OFFICAL, BUT DESCRIBED HIM IN SUCH DETAIL THAT BOTH BONNE AND MARTINEZ-AMORES RECOGNIZED HIM AS JORGE ((DE ORUETA)), A LONG-TIME CONTACT OF THE CCC. WHEN THE CONVERSATION WAS RELAYED TO DE ORUETA BY THE CCC, HE RECALLED BADELL HAD BEEN INTRODUCED TO HIM BY VLADIMIRO ROCA'S WIFE. HE FURTHER RECALLED THE LUNCH AND MENTION OF THE BOOK, BUT DECLARED THE MONTANER INFORMATION TO BE SPURIOUS. THIS SEQUENCE OF EVENTS SUGGESTED TO CCC SECURITY PERSONNEL THAT THERE WAS COORDINATION AMONG INDIVIDUALS SUSPECTED OF BEING DIRECTED BY CUBAN SECURITY.

C. IN 1993 A GROUP OF DISSIDENTS, INCLUDING BONNE, WAS INVITED TO THE HOME OF PIOTR ((MIKISKA)) (PHONETIC), FIRST SECRETARY AT THE CZECH EMBASSY, TO ATTEND A VISIT FROM THE CZECH VICE CHANCELLOR. (SOURCE COMMENT: THIS KIND OF CONTACT WAS ANATHEMA TO THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT.) THE CZECH INVITATION TO BONNE WAS SENT THREE DAYS IN ADVANCE BY WORD OF MOUTH VIA ROCA. BY COINCIDENCE, ANOTHER CCC REPRESENTATIVE VISITING MIKISKA WITHIN A DAY OR TWO OF WHEN THE INVITATION WAS RELAYED TO ROCA WAS ASKED ABOUT THE INVITATION TO BONNE, AS BONNE HAD NOT RESPONDED TO THE CZECH EMBASSY. THE CCC REPRESENTATIVE INCLUDED THE QUERY REGARDING THE INVITATION IN HIS REPORT OF THE MEETING TO THE CCC, GIVING BONNE HIS FIRST NOTIFICATION THAT THERE HAD EVEN BEEN AN INVITATION. ROCA FINALLY PASSED THE MESSAGE TO THE HOME OF GEORGINA DE LAS MERCEDES ((GONZALEZ)) CORBO, ONE OF BONNE'S CHIEF ASSISTANTS, TWO HOURS PRIOR TO THE BEGINNING OF THE FUNCTION.

D. IN MID 1995, REINALDO ((ROQUE)) MALHERBE OF CCC REPORTED THAT VLADIMIRO ROCA'S WIFE WAS UNDERMINING ELIZARDO

SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403909 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-2899455 SENSIND: INTEL PAGE: 5

SANCHEZ BY PASSING AROUND STORIES THAT HE HAD BEEN WITHHOLDING
ORGANIZATIONAL FUNDS, INTENDED FOR THE SOCIALIST CURRENT, FOR HIS
PERSONAL USE. (SOURCE COMMENT: THIS RUMOR CAMPAIGN MAY HAVE
*CONTRIBUTED TO SANCHEZ' REPORTED RESIGNATION FROM THE EXECUTIVE>
COMMITTEE OF THE SOCIALIST CURRENT.)

E. REPORTING ON RADIO MARTI FROM MIAMI AROUND MID 1995
ALLEGEDLY REFERRED TO VLADIMIRO ROCA AS AN AGENT OF CUBAN STATE
SECURITY. ROCA HIMSELF WAS REPORTED IN CUBAN DISSIDENT CIRCLES TO
HAVE STATED THAT HE WAS A LONG-TIME FRIEND OF MAJOR GENERAL FABIAN
((ESCALANTE)) FONT, WHO WAS REPORTEDLY THE CHIEF OF THE MININT
DIRECTORATE OF COUNTERINTELLIGENCE (DCI). (HEADQUARTERS COMMENT:
ESCALANTE FONT NOW HEADS THE MINISTRY'S HISTORY COMMISSION AND IS
*KNOWN FOR HIS INQUIRIES INTO THE PRESIDENT<JOHN>F.<KENNEDY>
ASSASSINATION, THE BAY OF PIGS INVASION, AND THE CUBAN MISSILE
CRISIS.)

5. GUILLERMO FERNANDEZ DONATES IS A CIVIL ENGINEER WHO WAS
   CLOSE TO GUSTAVO ((ARCOS)) BERGNES OF THE CUBAN COMMITTEE FOR
   HUMAN RIGHTS (COMITE CUBANO PRO DERECHOS HUMANOS). HE WAS
   SUSPECTED OF BEING A MININT SOURCE AND A PROVOCATEUR BY THE CCC
   LEADERSHIP. HE JOINED THE CCC ON THE RECOMMENDATION OF ARCOS
   BECAUSE FERNANDEZ WAS A MEMBER OF THE PROFESSIONAL CLASS. (SOURCE
   COMMENT: MANY MEMBERS OF THE CCC ARE PROFESSIONALS.) THE CCC
   INITIALLY BECAME SUSPICIOUS OF FERNANDEZ BECAUSE HE HAD A HISTORY
   OF ARRESTS IN WHICH HE WOULD BE PLACED WITH VARIOUS GROUPS OF
   POLITICAL PRISONERS. IN PRISON HE WOULD EVENTUALLY HAVE A FIGHT
   WITH A GUARD OR COMMIT AN INFRACTION OF REGULATIONS AND BE REMOVED
   BY THE AUTHORITIES FOR DISCIPLINARY ACTION. EACH TIME HE EMERGED
   FROM PRISON HE SEEMED TO BE IN EXCELLENT HEALTH AND WELL FED.

6. ADDITIONALLY, SEVERAL OTHER ANOMALIES HAVE CAUSED THE
   CCC LEADERSHIP TO BE SUSPICIOUS OF FERNANDEZ:

A. ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS, FERNANDEZ HAS BEEN ASKED BY
THE CCC TO COMMUNICATE ITEMS OF MUTUAL INTEREST TO ARCOS.
SUBSEQUENT ELICITATION OF ARCOS BY OTHER MEMBERS OF THE CCC LED
THEM TO BELIEVE THAT INFORMATION PROVIDED BY FERNANDEZ TO ARCOS
WAS OFTEN GROSSLY INACCURATE. WHEN APPRISED OF THIS SITUATION,
ARCOS DISMISSED CCC COMMENTS AS BEING SIMPLE MISUNDERSTANDINGS.

B. IT HAS BEEN NOTED BY THE CCC LEADERSHIP THAT
FERNANDEZ WAS FRIENDLY WITH JORGE GONZALEZ AND WITH VLADIMIRO
ROCA. FERNANDEZ WAS PRIVY TO THE ACTIVITIES PLANNED BY SOCIALIST
CURRENT, THE GROUP TO WHICH ROCA BELONGED, BY HIS ASSOCIATION WITH
ROCA. REINALDO ROQUE, A MEMBER OF THE CCC, WHO WORKED WITH
SOCIALIST CURRENT, NOTED THAT WHEN THE GROUP WAS SCHEDULED TO
MEET, IT WAS CHALLENGED BY CUBAN AUTHORITIES SO OFTEN THAT THE
AUTHORITIES MUST HAVE BEEN APPRISED OF ITS SCHEDULE. EITHER
FERNANDEZ OR ROCA (OR BOTH) COULD HAVE BEEN PASSING SUCH
INFORMATION TO THE AUTHORITIES.

C. ON ONE OCCASION, TO THE SURPRISE OF THE CCC,
FERNANDEZ, A KARATE PRACTITIONER, INVITED THE ENTIRE CCC
MEMBERSHIP TO GO TO THE CIUDAD DEPORTIVA (SPORTS CITY) TO AN
SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403909 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-2899455 SENSIND: INTEL PAGE: 6

EXERCISE FIELD TO WORK OUT. CCC SECURITY PERSONNEL NOTED THAT
THIS WOULD HAVE ASSEMBLED ALL OR MOST OF THE CCC MEMBERSHIP IN
HAVANA IN AN OPEN AREA WHERE IT COULD BE OBSERVED AND
PHOTOGRAPHED. THE INVITATION, COMING AS IT DID AS A ONE-TIME
OPPORTUNITY WITH NO PRECEDENT, FUELED SUSPICIONS WITHIN THE CCC
AND THE INVITATION WAS DECLINED.

7. A SERIES OF EVENTS INVOLVING RAFAEL ALCIDES, A NOTED
   CUBAN POET AND FIRST HUSBAND OF TERESA ((FERNANDEZ)) MARDONES (A
   MEMBER OF THE CCC), WAS SIGNIFICANT TO THE CCC BECAUSE IT CALLED
   INTO QUESTION WHERE ALCIDES' LOYALTIES LAY. ALCIDES AND FERNANDEZ
   HAD ONE CHILD, A SON, TOGETHER BEFORE THEY WERE DIVORCED AROUND
   LATE 1993. FERNANDEZ HAD REMARRIED AND WAS LIVING WITH RONALDO
   ((ROQUE)) (COUSIN OF REINALDO ROQUE), AND ALCIDES WAS SPENDING
   CONSIDERABLE TIME AT THE ROQUE RESIDENCE, PRESUMABLY TO BE WITH
   HIS SON. THE CCC BECAME CONCERNED WITH THE SECURITY OF THE
   SITUATION AS FERNANDEZ WAS PRIVY TO CCC INFORMATION AND WAS
   ASSESSED AS BEING EMOTIONAL AND TENDING TO CONFIDE TOO MUCH.
   MARTINEZ-AMORES WAS DISPATCHED BY THE CCC TO FEEL OUT ALCIDES, AND
   REPORTED THAT HE SPOKE COHERENTLY AND LOGICALLY AGAINST THE
   CURRENT REGIME. MARTINEZ-AMORES APPEARED TO BE REASSURED.
   SUBSEQUENTLY HOWEVER, IN CONVERSATION WITH ALCIDES, REINALDO ROQUE
   LEARNED THAT ALCIDES WAS PART OF A DELEGATION OF THE CUBAN
   NATIONAL UNION OF WRITERS AND ARTISTS (UNION NACIONAL DE
   ESCRITORES Y ARTISTAS DE CUBA - UNEAC) THAT VISITED MADRID
   SOMETIME AROUND 1994. WHILE THERE, ALCIDES SAID THAT HE WAS
   INVITED WITH A NUMBER OF OTHER UNEAC DELEGATES TO LUNCH WITH
   CARLOS ALBERTO MONTANER. (SOURCE COMMENT: THE LUNCHEON WITH
   MONTANER MUST CERTAINLY HAVE RECEIVED CUBAN GOVERNMENT APPROVAL,
   AND THE GROUP MUST HAVE INCLUDED CUBAN SECURITY PERSONNEL.)
   ALCIDES TOLD ROQUE THAT ON HIS RETURN TO CUBA, HE ATTENDED THE
   FUNERAL FOR A SISTER (NFI) OF FIDEL CASTRO AND DELIVERED THE
   FUNERAL ORATION. FOLLOWING THE FUNERAL, HE WAS OBSERVED TO BE
   EMBRACED BY MINISTER OF THE REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES GENERAL
   RAUL ((CASTRO)) RUZ.

POC: ECC, HOWARD, SECURE X-43770, STU III (703) 506 7687.

ACQ: (LATE OCTOBER 1995)

DISSEM: FIELD: SENT TO; USCINCSO, USCINCACOM, AIC, USCINCTRANS,
USCINCSOC, JSOC.

WARNING: REPORT CLASS S E C R E T--WARNING NOTICE--INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES OR METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS.

DECL: X1 CL REASON 1.5(C) DRV FROM HUM-4 BY RECORDED REPORTING
OFFICER. ALL PORTIONS CARRY CLASSIFICATION AND CONTROLS OF
OVERALL DOCUMENT.
END OF MESSAGE SECRET.>

RELNO: E320078
ORIG: IIDIRPS

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET

NW 54559 DocId:32403909 Page 7


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)