# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FROM: (Requesters name) ①

BADGE NO.

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

| BRANCH       | ROOM | EXTENSION | DATE | RID CONTROL NO. |                       |
| ------------ | ---- | --------- | ---- | --------------- | --------------------- |
| TO           | TUBE | ROOM      | DATE | INITIALS        | CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS |
| RID/INDEX    | DT-5 |           |      | ②               |                       |
| REQUESTER    |      |           |      |                 |                       |
| RID/FILES    | DT-6 |           |      | ③               |                       |
| REQUESTER    |      |           |      |                 |                       |
| RID/ANALYSIS | GT-7 |           |      |                 |                       |
| RID/201      | DW-6 |           |      |                 |                       |
| RID/MIS      | GT-6 |           |      |                 |                       |
| RID/INDEX    | DT-5 |           |      |                 |                       |

SURNAME

DEDKOV, Roman Fedorovich or Vilasa Nikolaevna

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA. ALIASES

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership,
I. S. affiliations, etc.)

Poss. at soo. En in New Delhi, Ind.

| SEX | DATE OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP USSR | RESIDENCE Minsk USSR |
| --- | ------------- | -------------- | ---------------- | -------------------- |
NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

① Use gummed label; type or print all entries.

② Upon receipt of index card reproductions draw a green diagonal line across the items you do not want.

③ Edit (use green) the reproduced index cards to indicate:

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with green D and note reason for destruction) Examples: document destroyed; duplicate or less informative than retained in- formation; information of no CS value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu- ding infinity symbol ∞ when card in- cludes all facts contained in the document.

201 CONSOLIDATION

1. Return this form with the card repro- ductions, also return pertinent documents, aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on the subject exists.

2. For each document to be included in the consolidation (i.e., copy or cross reference to be placed in the 201 file), green D the corresponding card and check (a) or (b) below:

(a) ☐ Consolidate into 201-

(b) ☐ Open 201 file on subject.

RESTRICTION (If any)

OTHER INTERESTED DESKS OR STATIONS

|     | CRYPTONYM ASSIGNED |
| --- | ------------------ |
| YES | NO                 |
|     | FILE TO BE KEPT    |
| RID | DESK               |

Note 1. Records of COI, SSU, OSS and CIG are in RID/ARD, and those that meet indexing criteria in CSHB 70-1-1 are carded in the CS Main Index. If you believe there could be additional in- formation of value in these records, you must request an Archives Index search.

Note 2. Information concerning foreign public personalities (except mili- tary) may be available in BR/OCR x7997.

DATE

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

One Roman Fedorovich DEDKOV, born 28 March 1927 in Ariansk, USSR, and his wife Vilasa Nikolayevna DEDKOV, born 31 December 1930 in Minsk, USSR, applied-for were listed as applicants for entry visas to Indies sometime prior to April 1962. DEDKOV, who was issued Soviet passport number 207461 on 17 September 1960, was scheduled to arrive in New Delhi for two years as an English language teacher at the Soviet Embassy. It is not known if whether or not DEDKOV actually arrived in New Delhi.

It sent because it shows hiasan to Incham, a wing
"Home List" nut classified.

SEW
10 Auu 1964


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13-00000

INDIA 1 00

DEDKOV, Roman Fedorovich

Subj scheduled to arrive New Delhi for two years as an English teacher at the Soviet Embassy; Ppt 207461 1ss 17 Sept 60 (Hos Comment: Subj is presumed to have arr sometime after Sept 60). NBDA-8509, 24 Apr 62

Wife: Vilasa Nikolayevna (DPOB: 31 Dec 1930; Minsk)

DPOB: 28 Mar 1927; Ariansk

201-756978


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)