# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Wednesday - 30 March 1977

## 15. (Unclassified - DTC) LIAISON I was called by Mr. James Fiesta, in the office of Representative Clarence D. Long (D., Md.), regarding a constituent's request for information on the Kennedy assassination. This constituent, Ernest F. Rethschulte, is a graduate student and is preparing a thesis on the assassination. He had seen a newspaper article reporting an FOIA release from the Agency of about 850 pages of material on the assassination to the Associated Press. Mr. Fiesta is sending me a copy of the newspaper article so that we can more clearly identify the material with IPS, and if it has been released it will be provided to the constituent through Mr. Fiesta. (Note: There have been prior OLC contacts with Mr. Fiesta on this FOIA. request.)

## 16. (Unclassified - RJK) LIAISON Spoke with Anne Karalekas, Senate Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to confirm that she would be speaking to the Intelligence Process Course on 18 April, for which I would be assisting her with transportation. She will also speak to an annual records management conference at (Warrenton) Training Center on 4 May, for which George Frates, Records Administration Branch, is making the travel arrangements. She indicated that she would call Frates and they would work out the arrangements together.

## 17. (Unclassified - CM) LIAISON I asked Linda, secretary to Pauline Baker, of the staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs, if the Subcommittee hearings of September 1976 had been published. She said that had just occurred, and promised to send us two copies. I advised Molly Kreimer, CPS, the requester.

## 18. (Unclassified - ALM) LIAISON Winslow Wheeler, from the office of Senator Jacob K. Javits, called requesting a copy of "A Study of Climatological Research as it Pertains to Intelligence Problems." A copy was forwarded to him.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)