# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Seymour R. Bolten
2 E 14

EXTENSION NO. 7520

DATE 19 September 1974

TO: Mr. John Morrison
OGC 7 D 01

|     | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| --- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | 9/19/74       |                |                    | 1. Attached is an advanced informal copy of our proposed security deletions and revisions of the Hunt galley proof. Please note that this list has not yet been reviewed by Mr. Blee and is, therefore, still subject to change.                                                                            |
| 2.  |               |                |                    | 2. The DDO panel that reviewed the Hunt manuscript has designated items, numbered 12, 14, 19, 21, 24 and 25, as "hard core," by which we mean that the Agency should insist on their deletion or revision and be prepared to obtain an injunction and engage in litigation should Hunt refuse to cooperate. |
| 3.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 4.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 5.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 6.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 7.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 8.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 9.  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 10. |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 11. |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 12. |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 13. |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 14. |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| 15. |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Seymour R. Bolten
SAB/DDO

> CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: Manuscript and Galley Proof of Undercover:
Memoirs of an American Agent by E. Howard Hunt

NOTES:
A. Pages and lines underlined
and appearing at the begin-
ning of the items below
refer to the galley proof.

B. Corresponding page and line
listings as they appear in
the manuscript are provided
in brackets at the end of
each item.

1. Page 57, line 6 from bottom of page; the name "Henry
   Pleasants" Mr. *Pleasants*/retired under cover and his past
   relationship should not be exposed. It is also recommended
   that efforts be made to have the name "John Richardson" also
   removed from the same sentence containing Mr. *Pleasants* name.
   (Page 96, line 17.)

2. Page 59, line 38 beginning with "However" and ending
   on page 60, line 2 with "milieu". Rutherford T. "Pinky" Walsh
   retired under cover and his CIA relationship should not be
   exposed. His assignment in Paris under student cover/is
   similarly classified. The description of this activity just
   a couple of pages before the author gratuitously mentions the
   lack of an agreement between the Agency and the French barring
   unilateral operations in France (Item 4 below) is potentially
   an additionally damaging blow to liaison relationships. (Page
   100, lines 10-14.)

# CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

3. Page 63, line 21; the name "Frank Holcomb"

Mr. Holcomb retired under cover and his past relationship with the CIA should not be exposed. It is additionally recommended that the entire paragraph wherein Mr. Holcomb's name appears (lines 21-24) should be deleted because it acknowledges CIA operations in support of anti-communist political operations in Italy. (page 105, lines 18-21.)

4. Page 63, line 30 beginning with "By" and ending with "arrangement" on line 33, page 63. It is recommended that this passage be deleted since its inclusion not only is not pertinent to the narrative but it unnecessarily jars liaison with the British and is an implied insult to the French liaison services. (page 106, lines 4-7.)

5. Page 66 beginning with "Finis" on line 24 and ending with "world" on line 27. This passage describes a specific CIA operation which resulted in the production and distribution of an animated cartoon based on George Orwell's Animal Farm. (Page 111, lines 6-9.)

6. Page 68, the pseudonym "John F. Rittenhouse" on line 34. The author's original CIA pseudonym was classified, and even though compromised, never appeared in the press and still exists on various currently classified documents. (page 114, line 23.)

7. Page 71, beginning with "Spanish" on line 28 and ending with "America" on line 20, page 72, and including the footnotes on pages 71 and 72. This passage should be deleted because it describes the Agency's role in subsidizing, producing and distributing "El Campesino's" book, Life and Death in the USSR. (pages 120 [lines 4-20, including footnote] - 121 [lines 1-16, including footnote.))

8. Page 72 beginning with "Eudocia" on line 21 and ending with "Scribner's" on line 32. This should be deleted because it describes the Agency's role in the translation, publishing and distribution of Eudocio Ravines' book, The Yenan Way. It also describes William Buckley's role in that operation as a CIA officer. (Page 121, lines 17-23 and page 122, lines 1-6.)

9. Page 73 beginning with "Mexican" on line 5 through "Rivera" on line 8. This should be deleted because it not only describes sources and methods but also identifies a specific CIA operation. (Page 122, lines 19-21 and page 123, line 1.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CONFIDENTIAL

10. Page 73 beginning with "Communism" on line 14 and ending with "reputation" on line 15. This passage could serve to identify a former asset in Mexico who is still living. (Page 123, lines 7-8.)

11. Page 73 beginning with "cover" on line 17 through "legend" on line 19. This should be deleted because it identifies a CIA-sponsored cover arrangement in Bangkok. Furthermore, this particular type of cover, the movie industry, has figured in earlier unfavorable publicity to CIA in other Southeast Asian countries and thus serves to further render suspect the use of such cover in still other areas. (Page 123, lines 10-12.)

12. Page 73 beginning with "planned" on line 22 through "authentic" on line 5 of page 74 and including the footnote on page 74. This should be deleted because it describes a specific operation involving the forgery of a page of the Shanghai Post, and also includes descriptions of sources and methods. (Page 123, lines 15-23 and all of page 124 including footnote.)

13. Page 77 beginning with "technical" on line 19 through "station" on line 21. This should be deleted because it describes and authenticates a CIA operation. (Page 131, lines 2-4.)

14. Page 80 beginning with "surreptitious-entry" on line 9 through "Embassy" on line 12, page 82. This should be deleted because it describes a specific, sensitive operation as well as sensitive sources and methods including the acquisition of code materials). (Page 136, line 3 through page 139, line 20.)

15. Page 86 beginning with "Greek" on line 18 through "countries" on line 20. This should be deleted because it identifies a specific operation and the foreign assets involved in its support. (Page 147, lines 6-8.)

16. Page 95 beginning with "quasi-military" on line 11 through "East" on line 16. This should be deleted because it describes various cover and support facilities used in Far East Asian countries. (Page 163, lines 6-11.)

17. Page 95 beginning with "Hong Kong" on line 16 through "Branch" on line 19. This should be deleted because it describes an operation conducted jointly with a liaison service in Hong Kong targetted against mainland China and as such is not only damaging to current American detente efforts but is particularly menacing to Hong Kong authorities in view of their proximity and susceptibility to potential Chinese retaliatory pressures. (Page 163, lines 11-14.)

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

18. Page 99 beginning with "disrupting" on line 5 through "display" on line 27 and including the footnote on page 99. This passage describes specific CIA operations in Tokyo targetted against China and as such are not only damaging to current detente efforts but are also disruptive to liaison relationships with the Japanese .7 (Page 169 line 23 through page 170, line 22, including footnote.)

19. Page 102 beginning with "Despite" on line 6 through "returned" on line 10. This should be deleted because it describes a specific and sensitive CIA operation including [code materials]. (Page 175, lines 10-15.)

20. Page 105 beginning with "wiretap" on line 6 through "surreptitious-entry" on line 7. Ought to be deleted since it refers to sensitive Agency sources and methods. (Page 181, lines 2-3.)

21. Page 108 beginning with "tap" on line 17 through "Embassy" on line 7, page 109. This passage deals intermittently with various operational proposals, activities including a recruitment of an identifiable individual, as well as with sensitive methods of operation, e.g., surveillance teams. (Page 187, lines 6-24 through page 188, lines 1-15.)

22. Page 109 beginning with "FBI" on line 21 through "station" on line 26. The "Ramirez" operation. Describes an operation which began with the FBI's spotting of a possible Soviet intelligence agent. Since this information was then turned over to the Agency, a question arises/concerning the need to seek the FBI's prior comments. (Page 189, lines 6-11.)

23. Page 111 beginning with "The" on line 22 through "triumvirate" on line 23. It would seem that an effort ought to be made to have this passage deleted or changed since its damage potential to [liaison relationships with the Uruguayan services] is considerable, and it does jeopardize the current careers and livelihoods of the Agency's contacts who are referred to by date and position and thus, are identifiable. (Page 192, lines 21-22.)

24. Page 115 beginning with "I" on line 23 through "department" on line 35. This passage should be deleted because it describes Agency methods of operation --- acquisition and passage of information to and from a liaison service as well as an overall Agency program of operational activities within Uruguay involving the [monitoring of forty-two telephone lines]. Page 200, lines 6-18.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONFIDENTIAL

25. Page 116 beginning with "technical" on line 10 through "secrets" on line 29. This passage should be deleted because it describes a sensitive operation conducted jointly with a liaison (Uruguayan) service (which involved code materials) (Page 201, lines 12-23 and page 202, lines 1-9.)

26. Page 122 beginning with "The" on line 8 through "Djilas" on line 9. This passage should be deleted because it attests to the Agency's subsidization of publication/of Djilas' book. In addition an effort ought to be made to have the author remove or appropriately alter the rest of the paragraph wherein he refers to an Agency news service located in "Washington's National Press Building". (Page 211, line 4.)

27. Page 122 beginning with "from" through "Gaines" on line 31. It is recommended that OGC's attention be called to this passage in order that they be made aware of its possible interpretations. (Page 212, lines 4-5.)

28. Page 123 beginning with "Soon" on line 12 through "Madrid" on line 35. This passage deals with the author's work on several "Peter Ward" books and, later, his assignment to Madrid. It is recommended that OGC's/attention be called to this passage. (Page 212, last line through page 213, lines 1-23.)

29. Page 126 beginning with "Chief" on last line through "officers" on page 127, line 5. This passage should be deleted because it specifies the classified activities of a CIA officer, [Roger Goiran, His assignments in Tehran and Brussels], as well as his involvement in the compilation of a classified "encyclopedic study" are unwarranted disclosures of Agency methods. (Page 219, lines 8-13.)

30. Page 130 beginning with "Free" on line 20 through "CIA" on line 21. This phrase phrase should be deleted because it could serve to affect the life of one of the principals of the Free Cuba Committee, Mrs. Marieda Bourgin, a former witting contact, who is now employed by the State Department. (Page 225, lines 10-11.)

31. Page 150, all of lines 14 through 16. It would appear that this description of the author's contact with Dr. Barney Malloy of CIA is very unfair to the latter. It implies that Hunt had a special relationship with Dr. Malloy and an effort ought to be made by OGC to have the author rewrite this version in order to reflect Dr. Malloy's true role in this affair. Page 260, lines 22-23 through page 261, lines 1-2.)

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

32. Page 220, lines 5 through 10. This passage concerning the use of CIA alias documentation by Hunt and others includes loose language which implies that still another set of documents was prepared by the CIA for Hunt's use --- i.e., a set of documents which was not mentioned during the recent Congressional "Watergate hearings". As such this is misleading and could serve to create additional difficulties for the Agency. It is recommended that the OGC make an effort to have the author rewrite this paragraph in order that this potentially damaging language be removed from his manuscript. (Page 387, lines 4-9.)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)