# SECRET
CSI - Internal Use Only

3 January 1996

Note To: D/CSI

Subject: JFK Appeal

1. Attached is an advance copy of the memorandum for the DCI being prepared by DO/IMS (with OGC's help) requesting an appeal of certain ARRB decisions. The memorandum is currently (this a.m.) being redone in DO/IMS for technical reasons (wrong font, distribution, etc.). The DDO is expected to see it this afternoon or tomorrow. After DO approval, the memorandum will pass through OGC (Smith) and CSI for comments before going to the DCI.

2. HRG reviewers are not convinced that the "LICRYPT issue" (Attachment A) should be appealed. While the DO makes a good case on the particular document in question, given the extensive information on liaison with the Mexicans that has been released in documents dated after November 22 1963, HRG reviewers question this as an appeal issue. I discussed the issue with John, but we did not come to a final HRG position.

3. HRG reviewers support the appeal in Attachment B and John agrees.

4. HRG reviewers can support the appeal of the four stations in Attachment C. However, we believe that opening a Nov/Dec 1963 window for Oswald related documents might be a better approach. We are concerned that the State Department has not been part of the discussion--the impact on cover and foreign relations of acknowledging stations. Although the DO is appealing the release of these four stations, it has agreed to acknowledge all of the South and Central American stations plus London, Paris, Ottawa, Bonn and the German bases. I raised the State issue with OGC (Linda Cipriani). She agreed on the need to include State in the discussion; once the decision is made to appeal, she will contact her counterpart at State. I have not had an opportunity to discuss the State issue with John.

![signature of Barry]

CC: C/HRG

Administrative Internal Use Only
When Separated From Attachment

SECRET
CSI - Internal Use Only


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)