# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

20 October 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Meeting with Dr. Miro in New York City on October 16, 1961

The meeting with Dr. Miro on October 16 was postponed from 10:00 until such time as his audience terminated with Cardinal Spellman. He arrived at my room at about 10:50. He declared that the Cardinal had wept when he learned the details of the suffering of the Cubans at the hands of Castro; declared that the Archbishop of Miami wasn't doing enough for the Cuban refugees; that the U.S. wasn't doing enough for them; that Castro must be overthrown. Miro told the Cardinal that in all Latin America there were going to be organized acts of sympathy for the Cuban sufferers. The Cardinal said he would say a Mass for them on October 17. He invited Miro to see him at any time.

Miro answered my query as to the Lacerda affairs by stating that it was very successful; 2,800 people were inside the auditorium and another 1,000 people outside; that Lacerda had received such applause.

The Inter-American Press Association affairs also had given an opportunity to present the Cuban tragedy. He said that he (Miro) had told how Fidel had shot 31 people in September alone, and other details; had described how Communist was gaining ground day by day; that in Cuba they have installed a powerful radio station broadcasting to Latin America; that ten countries have broken with Cuba, but Argentina has not; that everybody is confused.

He informed me that as for the documents relating to the Cuban plots in Argentina, the Argentine military men came to talk to Varona, and he gave them some documents that have no importance. The officers told Varona textually "We have no confidence in the Argentine Foreign Office," nevertheless, when they arrived there, they turned over the documents to the Foreign Office. But these documents had no importance; they were merely to demonstrate that there had been an extradition of documents, and that they were originals. The important documents are held by Varona in Miami.

Miro said they also visualized another act involving Lacerda in Miami, but that his "administrative" budget really does not provide for propaganda activities (such as the Current SIP and Lacerda affairs). I countered that it was considered that his budget was sufficient for him to conduct more propaganda activities; obviously nothing on a major scale - but some things.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

-2-

Miro declared that internal propaganda and clandestine action in Cuba could not be delayed any longer. I agreed on the necessity, and that it was believed that measures are necessary to forment in Cuba the opposition to Castro. "The people are against himi" declared Miro. "But increase it," I answered. Miro then stated "If this action doesn't stem from the Consejo (CRC) - not as an independent agency, but in close contact with you (the Agency), - what we forment is a complete disorder in Cuba, and afterwards no government can succeed; secondly, if we do not have a central plan, and carry it out well in a more or less limited period of time, there will merely be more shooting of people (prisoners) by Fidel."

"And this is my insistence. How I am afraid to go to Miami. What am I to tell the people there? What do I do? Converse? Meanwhile the Agency keeps on infiltrating people into Cuba but disconnected from the Council. I was told in my conversation with the President to amplify the membership in the Consejo. I have endeavored to do that. In the Council there are other great organizations - delegates from each of the organizations - that ask me for arms, dynamite, things, and I am here powerless. Therefore I must work with you people in order to see how we may hand over arms and a plan of action so they may see that this is not merely an endless series of sabotage actions." I replied, "Well, I believe that a well-worked-out plan that shows good chances of success will be favorably considered."

"How about arms for the Escambray?" asked Miro. I replied that it was my understanding that arms for the Escambray could only be landed on the North Coast; how then would they get to the Escambray? Miro said that the boat which had made many trips (working for YOU), would have to establish communication and find out when they would pick up the arms; what cannot be done is abandon Cavaldo Ramirez in his situation of anguish because he is the only real regional focus of resistance that there is there, and he has been really left in a desperate situation for three months.

I interposed that there seemed some question about the paper from Ramirez asking for arms, whether it was the real thing. "Perfectly identified" replied Miro. "He assured that it is perfectly identified and requests have come to me through different channels asking for these arms. I am still waiting now for a month and a half. All you have to do is tell us the means of delivery, the people to contact and then deliver to our Cubans the arms, dynamite, fuses. I am still waiting, and criticism (of Cubans against inaction) increases daily."

"All the delegations of revolutionary groups in the Council ask me for arms and means for fighting. But I cannot provide them anything. Meanwhile the Agency is infiltrating people into Cuba without counting on the Consejo for anything. This puts it into an absurd position - merely a "council painted on the wall." I have said, "Look for someone else if I am not considered able to do the job but we must work. I have confidence in the Agency, but I cannot work in this fashion."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

-3-

"I've asked for money for the clandestine groups. What have they said about that?" Miro asked. I replied that there is a problem of the means of delivery, that the Italian Embassy at present appears undesirable. The Ambassador isn't there. Well, we look for another means; the Argentine - anything - those people need money" he countered. I have to carry out concrete things," he declared. "I'm now like a person in a swimming pool without water." "For three and a half months I've struggled to maintain a revolutionary spirit. My military people are waiting till I arrived and tell them, "this must be done, that must be done. Nothing yet! And without any plan, I don't go anywhere; nowhere!

"The other time I went with my eyes closed, through faith. We had a failure and the failure fell upon me. I cannot proceed under such circumstances in no way. I've asked for $50,000 to send in to the underground. The Russians are spending $400,000 in propaganda and have less than the U.S. We shall not compromise the U.S. Tell me the way to send it in. The Council is to aid them, not merely to conduct meetings."

"On that request they haven't replied anything?" he asked, I answered that on this item, I had made known Firo's desire, but that so far nothing had been resolved.

"I'm not complaining," he stated, "but for three months I have been asking for a contact with the authority to resolve. Why? Because I'm getting nowhere. When I return now I shall be asked, 'How about it?' and must answer, 'You will have to wait because I have nothing.' And meanwhile the Agency keeps on infiltrating people into Cuba independent of the Consejo. Let us go back. Without being in agreement, I cannot serve you. I have no interest in presiding over a Council that is of no use."

I pointed out that the Council must continue to exist, with him as its president, as the coordinating body of the resistance movement, but that there are certain difficulties in putting the student or labor activities under the direction of the Council; that these groups are now functioning efficiently and that I trusted that he could see the problems of completely changing their control, direction, and coordination. I added that I believed that he should know something of what they are doing and that I believed that should be kept informed.

"I know absolutely nothing," he replied. "What comes to me is from these same individuals. I am not in agreement with that, I'm becoming ridiculous. Under these circumstances I cannot continue. I have planted the problem of the underground, the problem of the collateral organizations (that he would like to have in Council by being their source of support and coordination), of the magistrates, and now you have seen what ALABAU has done (proclaiming GARCERAN as president of exile government), who is working with you people, and you have seen the reaction of the State Department. How yesterday ALABAU is publishing political denunciations against the Council. I have discussed the matter of the magistrates with the C.I.A., I don't remember the name of the person. A month has passed and the other magistrates (those with ALABAU) haven't been stopped (in their activities) and they haven't had elections as I requested to select another leader."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

"The students are continuing their activities. I believe that I have something in my head as a tesis for the determination of what should be discussed in the Council vite te; and in agreerent with you; but these existing circumstances, without any connection, sake it so that I cannot continue the clandestine aid. To the first probles, I presented your reply, "We shall se." To the second probler, the collateral organizations -- which continues the same as refore, the third problen I presented, on arus to send in, nothing. The fourth. problem, the propaganca operation "Grista" that I shoved you, nothing." I replied that on the latter I had discussed the batter, that it was, I believen, a suggestion given to him in the Depart- rent of Stató.

"If we don't rake propaganda and send arra into Cuba now, it's useless," he declared. "And I cannot rezsin in silence." I renlied that I believed quite a bit of propaganda vas being conducted. "Yes, but independent of the Council. I CANNOT EK A P72271 "They (the Agency) keep on dealing with the MRP, with the Unidad Revoluciorario, and they haven't entered into the Council alonly because they are in cirect contact with the Agency. Thus it appears that none of the orculeus et I took up with you some twenty daya ago have been resolved, and I'll have take another solution. I want to know the truth if I'm not acceptable. I'll leave and without any scandle natscever. I have avalloved all the criticise, in ry own house, in silence, as though I were responsible for everything, I cannot continue to do this and be doing nothing. I cannot be a pumpet! I have no arms to give."

He reiterated that nowing had been resolved on any of his requests and procesals, and that he couldn't continue thus. That he could quit, go to Puerto Rico as a professor. Be added he would want to work with us. He then referred to the acts of Lacerda in New York, which had cost four thousand dollars, plus passare, a ricicicus sur spend from the ministrative Budget. "We have paid the passage, his living costs here. he said.

"How I go to Piaci where I have to face the organizations grouped into the Council. "AITS for evertere?" "I haven't any. All the organizations free-wheeling there which. don't want to join together because they are working directly with your people." I said this was unfortunate and asked whether there eculd not be sore forme realizin. contacts with ther without neces- sarily channelising their sport and direction through the Council, such as by forming a committee along the lines I had suggested in Piani.

Piro then referred to the agreement reached in the white House meeting with Fr. Goodvin, Mr. Woodverd, with gentlezen of the C.I.A., and with i'r. Hurvits. First, Trst be caly thing that is reconized is the Consejo (CRC); Dr. liro is the person of our confidence and will have an adrinistrative budget which he will control and will report later the excenses of coordina- tion, and that any other excenses, croparanda or clandestine activity, will be paid by the Aency; for the pretiers of the organizations in the Council there vill be a contact to assist in working out their solutions; that is to say, that their pretler a of boats an arms." Another point was that in case there are organizations that do not choose to join the Council, Dr. Miro will be perfectly informed in actance of the ratters at hand and will give his authorisation. That is to say, it establishes a unifying control over the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

(CRC). I have seven, to work with you, with me, with the people who are
going to carry out the activities, with the people that I designate.
Nothing of that is being done. Then what they want is to work alone."

"I will not continue. I will not continue from the time I return to
Miami. I have gone on for five months, struggling. I cannot accept this
situation. I have tried to pull together those groups as asked in the
White House. I haven't succeeded in crouping any rore, because - I want to
speak clearly in order to remain good friends always because you have
prevented it. The students haven't joined, not because of no political
reason, but perely because you support thes: directly. Presumably the idea
is that in this way the security of this nation is better safeguarded.
A Consejo was desired to serve as the coordinating group and to provide a
reans by which the United States would not appear to be intervening in Cuba.
If there is to be a Consejo, it must have all the dignity of a Council."

"When I try to form a Council, grouping all elements together, they
don't join because they are talking directly with your people - and there
is an office for that purpose in Fiami - which deals with all the ren who
want to work, who want to do things. This is all indecendent of the Council.
And some work for a destruction of the Council. I cannot tolerate this. I
have a son who is a prisoner; either I know the plans, and I knew the sareuver
and the problems that they are going to carry out, or I, when I arrive in
Miami, will say, "No," and send word to washington. Let them do without me.
There will be someone who will submit to these things, but not I."

"And of the four items that remedy-promised me to resolve, there
-have not been resolved any, and I find syself in the dark. And I as very
sorry. I am not going to comprcrise the security of this Nation, but
neither ar: I going to compromise the situation of these boys. When they
disappeared, lost their lives, etc., I was confronted with "And you are the
president of the Council." I cannot remaine in this way.."

"I haven't been able to group together anything. I was promised that
the magistrates would all incorcorate together (into the Council), but
that rascal ALALAU is working against the Council and I have reason to
believe that he is doing it with Agency support, otherwise how would he pay
for his politicsl denunciations." I responded, that I believed this could
not be true. He shouted, "I have expressed my position te you, and I want
you to get an answer when you can. If these problers that I have set forth
do not have an irmediate solution, I a not to know and to dispose of
relative actions to be taken, then how, in view of ry situation, must I do."

He asked about the plan for clandestine sabotage action by corrando
raid, that he had given us, and what had core of it. I replied that he rust
realize that the study of such a plan necessarily was slow and must be
considered by rany. He said he was convinced that there was no intention of
accepting such plans, and that while now we discuss such plans, we lose out.
"I cannot accept this situation, nor would you."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

-6-

He then said that he could go ahead and dissolve the Council, and let such organization go ahead and do as it pleased; that he couldn't preside over a reaningless council; that this was not a throat, but he would step out. I reassured him that he was highly esteered in Washington and it was necessary that he continue as head of the Council. He replied, "But they disregard re."

He reiterated that he had planted four problems, none of which had been resolved; reiterated that is hul planted the proramia problem a long time ago, but that propaganda continues independent of the Council and people are not out like those to the Congress of students in Sao Paulo, where they repeat tinga like parrots which don't go with Latin American audiences.

"I have asked for arms; either give us massive aid, one, two, three million - whatever is necessary, because this is to destroy Communism, and we'll take our plans. And we'll furnish the dead, for we can do no more. We must work in agreement, because now each time that I speak, it's "we shall see, we are going to study," - and nothing happens. No, no, I shall not preside over another Council existing under these circumstances. I have often spent 24 hours without sleeping, trying to pull together the groups, and meantime, problems arise on all sides. Why? Because so long as other prouse get support, they won't enter the Council. The MR? is in contact with you and getting arms; now the Unidad Revolucionario. I retain the ridiculous one. Already I've suffered a lot and have a son who is a prisoner. And I've talked a lot during these days, and I keep on being a puppet, but worse than a pumpet, because a puppet is moved, but I'm not even moved."

"Therefore, I say to you that the groups that want to work with us, you, the chief of that group, and I, we ought to resolve all these questions; for example, with the chief of the military group, because he has pulled together the professional army and the rebel army (elements) and the army of liberation, such as Varela, Botus, Sino and the boys, who have come from the brigade." He declared that SOTUS is a fighter, is willing to return to Cuba, and that he had great confidence in SOTUS.

I assured him that the legalization of SOTUS' residence would be arranged, and that Fr. Hurvitz informed me that he believed something could be acre for the other three returnees whose names IT. Firo had given se.

Dr. Miro reiterated that he rust speak clearly, that he could not continue thus as a travelling president without having anything to give to his people- nothing to the underground through Council action; nor could he be ignorant of plans which he opposed where Cubans go out to die, and then having their relatives come to him as responsible. He declared, "I don't want to live on a budget, preside over an administrative office, receive people, tell ther lies, saying, "We shall see." The men who are

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

-7-

here (in Council) representing organisations must know something of what
they are going to do and if they ask for 40 rifles, I must be able to say,
"Here they are" - not to give arms directly into their hands - but through
a contact for this. Othervise you people make your plans, and I'll retire
from everything. And be assured that never, never will I say a single word
against the Agency or the United States, nover, nor explain reasons which
shouldn't be explained.

"If I cannot have the responsibility that I should have, I shall not
land myself to what may result in a tragedy. None of the problems I have
planted have been resolved, not that of the registrates nor that of the
Eucumbrey, nor the money to the underground, has been resolved, not the
plan of propagamla that I gave you. I cannot continue to sit in an office,
While you continus operating, as you wish, with my silont consent. You may
choun someone else like Pr. Godoy, who is asking for arms. Choose and
see whether his nate will save Cuba. You are going to create another Fidel,
who is nothing.

I reminded him that I had my talks with him only ton daya before, not
twenty, and that I could talk to no one in Washington until a week ago and
had to have rany conversations with many people, and that his proposals
could not be resolved in such a short tire. He returned to the arecront
that "plans of action de discussed jointly; that it there were objections,
that the objections be discussed. He said there had been no objections so
fer to discuss; nor objections to propaganda plans. He was to have contact
with a representative of C.I.A. to meet with representatives of organiza-
tions that want to collaborate, and with Dr. Viro - nothing developed on
that he declared that he should have knowledge of the activities of
those that don't want to collatorates and said euch day there will be more,
because they want to gain the power for therselves, to act on their own
account. He said he knows there is a "Jim" and a "Robert" and others that
are doing things.

I assured hir he sust realize that there were any problems involved
in his proposals and that tire was essential to work then out. I reminded
him of his conversation with Mr. Goodwin and the latters' staterent to the
effect that there could be no thought in the foreseeable future of a mili-
tary operation against or invasion of Cuba. Miro countered by referring to
his conversation with the President on 18 July and his (Miro's) complaint
of inactivity. He said the President proposed the recruiting of Cubans in
differont units of the Army for training so as to utilise ther: at the
opportune tine, and that the officers would be invited to our military
schools. Miro said he had gathered sore of the military together and in-
forced them of this cffer, and the next week he was called to discuss the
recruiting, which he aproved. Ther General Hershey went to see him at
his house, telling him that Cubans wouldn't be sent to Berlin or any such
place but kept in the U.3. available for use later. Piro said, "If there
is to be no invasion, then let's utilize the underground, which needs arms
and roney..

STORET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

He again repeated, "There rust be rassive propaganda; secondly armas we shall furnish the dead, but I need to know "ilov are we going to die." He commented that he was going to ask that his photo,raph not be put on the cover of a certain sagasine because he didn't know whether he was going to continues that in the present circumstances he didn't see how be could continue. Again I urged that he rust do so, ard that I felt certain that we could maolve sure of his proposals, probably not to the extent that he desired, but at least in part, but that tire was necessary to accomplish this.

He repeated that the Council needs to have strection taken in Cups, but the Agency koens on undertaking actiora without any connection with the Council. Further, that he must have the reann for conductiong propa- panda, such as outlined in the "Operation Grietn." lle asked so when could I give him sore answers. I replied that during the current week I expected to have reetings in which these matters would to discussed the Departcent of State, with Mr. Goodwin, with representatives of the Agency, and that I hopod that surething would be resolved, but that he must realize that rany people are involved in such matters and solutions are not reached quickly. Ile reiterated that he had to keep telling his organisations "wait a little longer and that this was becoming onlarrassing.

Then he brought up his proposal of having him and the Council go to Cuba, saying "perhaps it would be advantageous that I die in Cuba, that the Council ask recojmition from Cuban soil and the military aid of the United States - all to take place within 48 hours. He added, "I have told you of the reaction of Cardinal 3rellran, "We have done very badly in the Cuban affair."

I rerinded hir that despite the urgency that we all recognized in the Cuban situation and its threat to the United States and all the Azericas, there are rany other world problers - Laos, rerlin, atc., - which also occupy the attention of our government cecnle.

Then I said I wished to take advantage of our meeting to ask him for information relative to his current budget, first, did he believe that there were any people receiving a salary fra the Council who might also be getting financial aid from. H.E.. He said, "No, I would never partit that. Then he declared that he had two ways of opertin; when he absorted the personnel of the various organizations into the CRC, either to cut off their salaries suddenly, or to put ther to work for their ways that the "norina" (cayroll) crew a little bit tecause he had to take in certain neoule, and that he considered is alsorbing them was sccording to the rolicy of C.I.A. Then he declared that the raxire benefit received by rofugees from. H.F.W. was $100 per faily per month, and that no where here could a farily live on a hundred a ronth. Hence, he did not feel that he could cut off the people on the staffs of the Chic organizations, and send ther. to the H.E.W. Therefore, they were assigned to the different


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

-8-

"The money for the underground is ruch and contact is doubtful, an excuse. The problem of Cuba costs a lot of crey! The people of the Escambray - it's difficult to deliver artis to them? But we are going to run that risk. The arts are going to be lost? Well, risks sust le taken." Pirc again referred to the groupe that didn't want to collaborate with the Council but would collaborate directly with the Agency stating that he had opposed it and still opposed it; that he received a very affectionate letter asking hin to try work out all the problers tetveen us and accept a solution, and that a representative would be designated to work with hing that I had appeared and he had spent two very pleasant days with re; that I wan very understanding; that twenty dayn had peased of great anxiety. ("lict twenty but ten," I intermosed.) iis auld ho figured that probably ha ight have arts and hein for the underground and know about plans of action and had felt stremthened. "Eut" he said, "now I feal knocked down. lone of the plans or propaganda proposals have been accepted, none. The firing wall in Cuba continues functioning, 31 dead in 3) days. ly resimation has been written long ago, and I am ready to submit it as soon as I return to Hlar.1."

I declared that he must not do that, that he must have patience., that it takes time to resolve these things; He replied that he has been waiting since April und rontioned all the sufferin he had gone through, attacks by everyone, rothers of prisoners and dead, the Arerican Press, Fortune, Time, Lifo, New York Times, etc., all against hin alom; with ALABAU Trellos, and othoras and that he had supported all of this in silence. He had been asked it it were true that there was no air sumrort and had not answered. "The other time I kept my lips closed with absolute faith, the next time I shall have my eyes open and have rany questions. I don't understand how you people can deal with sore of these unknown Cubans."

He said, "I've given many proofs of loyalty to you, that they attribute to me the other day in Miari that "there would be an invasion in a tow days", that is not true. I have a tapo recording of what I said which was "very soon (without ventioning any date) in Cuba there would be unveiled the great Pascuas (resurrection) of the Fatherlerd. And the press has mis- interpreted Pascuas as the Pascuna de Navidad (Christsas).

"Thus the press comes out with staterents attributed to Dr. Piro that the invasion will take place by Christras, completely a lie and nothing like what I said. I conceded to Dr. Iiro that he had suffered a trerendous number of attacks in silence and that the pross had over a period of time core out with critical remarks. I asked his. If he planned to pass through Washington before returning to Miami and he said he didn't have money for such expenses, that his wife was terribly worried about their son, but that he would have to remain in New York until Wednesday to attend the luncheon for all the editors of the Latin A:erican press, who want to con- verse with him, to help with propaganda but witicut costing the U.S. a cent.

COOGET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

-10-

cormissions within the CRC: finance, propaganda, clandestine, rilitary,
organisation, etc. The ones who are no good or don't want to work, he
said, he would cut off, but that he couldn't just fire sareone suddenly.
He then said saluries were small @ $200, $225 per conth as an average
except for particular individuals, such as his assistant Aragon, a very
capable person, and the chiefs of the various organizations who work "full
tize" and receive $400 each; further that he planned to give each organiza-
tion approximately $700 per month for their operating expenses, somo less,
some a little more - (MRR, Rescate, 30 de Nov, 20 de Faye, AAA Independ-
ientes, Kontecristi).

When I questioned whether the Pontecristi organization was still in
the CliC, he said it was, that only Justo Carillo had dropped out of the
CHC but the group remained in and had a new head. He added that he had
just had a request from Carillo to provide his (Carillo) with a thousand
dollars; that Carillo had photographic copies of some checks that he had
paid, to Waldo Frank for propaganda activities against Cuba and that
Carillowaa naking reimbursement but Miro said he didn't consider he had
to give it to Carille

Returning to the budgot, Kiro Said, "There are the various employees;
there is the item of trips; there are the military people grouped under
the military commission - I cannot let the suffer risery. There are no
students on the payroll because they are being supported by you (the
Agency). And right there a difference is established between those in
the Council and those who receive money from the Agency directly, which
is more than that received by ry people. See how you (the Agency) with-
out intending to, and for reasons of insecurity, are going to destroy
the Council." He then stated that he had placed Alvarez Dias, who had
been Minister of Finance, in charge of finance matters because he (Miro)
could not be everywhere, and to make certain that no expenses were paid
on which they were not in agreeront, and which Paula would carry out.

I quarried whether Paula would continuo as accountant, and Miro said,
"certainly, as accountant." He said that everyone has been coring to him
(Mirc) with all kirds of pleas for money and therefore it was nocessary
to have Alvarez Diaz in here so that he and Paula night resolve the finance
matters. Miro added words of praise for Paulu, "It's like I want to have
for each section of the Council, like I wanted Conte Aguero to handle
propaganda, but since he is receiving money from you (the Agency) he
doesn't want to. I have to have someone to take this load off of re; first
as in Naval affairs, someone to lock for boats, arms, etc."

I asked about Festre for propaganda and Miro replied that restre is
no good, never was of value; that he had been put in charge of the propa-
ganda commission previously and given $48,000 ronthly, but had done nothing.
Then he launched into a criticist of the Swan propaganda; that it was a
share, handled by Batistianost Fernandes VARELA, a Catholic, Suares
Hernandes, a senator in the epoch of Fatista. He nared another (sounded

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

-11-

like Chau Killer) a bad person and a Batistero. Firo said he had asked that Swan to stopied but, since they work directly, these people are defended. He added wryly that he wished they (the Ager.cy) would defend him (Piro) that way.

He said they (the Agency) had posed the proble: five months ago in Plari relative to Joaquin, Jagerio, a Cuhan who was working with the Council and has worked regnificently, but then he accepted work with the C.I.A. and continusa doing this (and do a whatever he leases) - intel- 11,ence, arms, recruiting, etc. - and will have nothing to do with the Cowicil.

Again Miro declared that he had the highest regard for Paulo and couldn't desponse with: hir; had even proposed his nare to be the lagistrate of the Tribunal of Accounts in the futuro covercent of Cuba. I added by understardim, that Paulo had done an excellent job, particularly sontioning his handling of paying depender.ta, a reticulous and arduous task. Firo exciaired that he had never considered replacing Paula but poroly needed Alvarez Diaz to handle dotails with Paula. He nold everyone in 11 knows it is Pula who has the porey to rake payments by check, and that he thought it would be better for the people to get pay-rente in cash and sign a receipt; that sometimes sckmore Light rob Paula and then people will auk "from where docs this money core, since the Cubano have no roney,"

Then Dr. Miro said he would like to clarify any doubtful questions. I asked whether he had received any other communication from the Encambray group. He replied that he had not, but that the one had core through the Montecristi group and they cortinued to aek hi for this ares aid. I asked whether any changrs or additions had been rade in the Council at the October 10th Leeting. He replied that the FRP had not answered his in- vitation bucause they were working with the Agency, and that the nev group, the Union Revolucionario, had replied that they did not, because they have a dologate in Washington who is seeking direct contact with U.S. Goverrrent Agencies.

Miro then declared that in order to call a Council reeting, he had to have a press conference or a press release (about calling a CRC resting) but Prio, ALABA, and everybody vero against all this, and were doubtful whether to come or not to core. "I talked with Conte Aguero and with Ar- reliano many hours. Arreliano is a fuehrer; if things aren't done as he wants, he won't go along. Moreover, he has a strong anti-Anmerican sentiment. I talked to ther, but they said, "No." "There were two proble at their lack of confidence in the Coverrmert, and ry contradictory view that we want to be with then (with. U.S.). I would like to have had to call a Council peeting alrost by force. Therefore I decided to have no meeting and no press conference, and to come here (to New York City). There vaa no session //


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

-12-

"The Fastistianos are very well organized and also the Frio followers, waiting for re to do something, and I cannot do anything. I'm like St. Lawrence, roasted on one side and fried on the other."

I asked whether the Cow oil was looked upon too ruch as a political entity rather than a unifying medium. Miro replied, "Those people (Prio, Alabau, etc.) want to obstruct the ones who are fightin: Castro through the medium of the Council. They are divided into two greurs: (1) Politicians; Prio, Alonso Pujol; those that wart to be the directors; (2) The groups that want to act within Cuba who don't want to Join CÁC but rather to deal directly with: you neonle in order to have the power tomorrow in Cuba; necple only of action, but not of corzon sense and wo cannot roan much to the future of Cuba; they would cause another eга like that of Fidel, who is rothing but a student. That is extremely dangerous. You give these people the reans and if one of them over-throws Fidel he is the one who assumes power. He ray be a good ran of action but only 24 or 25 years old and not one who can orient Cuba in the way of democracy. After reaching 40, people think differently. Fighters are capable of currying out the action you give them to do, but not to govern,//

Dr. Miro continued to dwell on :is concern as to the future if these young fighters are given a free hand to do as they please, that care sust be taken as to who is supported, that those people are the ones who don't want to work with us; that the RP hopes that it will be the ore who will lead tomorrow in Cuba, that caos of the future will be sorething to which you the U.S. has contributed by supporting such clements.

Dr. Miro corrented in further detail his views and again hartered on the manner of using funds to avoid being like the ostrich. "Everyone knows where the money is coming from ami o have to be carefnil of the fore. Everyone does not know of you, but of where the help is coming from"

"We are the politicos of the war against Castre," affirmed ir. Firo. Let a military rar function as chief of staff as long as the zilitary action against Castro continues, but then the civil action rust be carried out by non-military cen,"

He added that during the sortening-un action against Castro, Le rust take good care of the ranner in which the action is taken to avoid exposing the .S. support; and that he considered that the collateral, incependent groups were not safeguarding it; so we are losing the now as you (U... Agencies) deal with each of those crours. Arc Le rust not lose, we rust vin.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SEOMET

-13-

I told Lr. Piro that I was anxious to work out some manner of linking these groups with ir. Kiro and the Council, without having to channel direction and funds through Dr. Miro, since these groups are now function- ing well under existing arrangerents.

Dr. Viro aid he would te cleased to meet with them outside of the Council, and they say continue to function as collateral organizations independently; but that they realize that they have one direction. Dr. Viro added that like the independent magistrates with their attitude - they are injuring the Council.

Dr. Piro Carented that he wanted the magistrates to have an election and select their leader according to the results of a vote. He reiterated that all the collateral organisations rust operate within the orbit of the Council; and that he would be glad to discuss with them their opinions just as he as & professor had done with students--often tires resulting in excellent ideas and viewpoints.

Then I rectioned that I had read in one of our magazines a laudatory item describing his dekonstrated capabilities as a rediátor between political groups and individuals.

Dr. Miro again returned to his belief that funds of all organizationa should funnel through the Council because every Cuban has a sense of sc011 that inclènes b to go where he knows the money is dispensed; that this is sad but true; and that those who are still outside and hope to get direct support, they knew that the money was here (in his hands), would core running without urging. He then said that he had seven hundred dollars, more or less, for each organization's operating expenses. He concluded by saying that he didn't wish to operate without us (Agency) or without any of the Agency people, but merely desired to pull together the diverse groups and other activities.

He then referred to his comersations with Mr. Berle and General Taylor, and his view expressed to them that in the April affair he felt that the Agency ted functioned more or less effectively - soretires their people hac teen "rough", or "tough", but that he had no complaint; that the lack of air cover no doubt caused defeat. khen he had been quarried by resorters and other on specific questions designed to pry secreta out of cir, he had replied, "I didn't see them," or siciliar evasions, and thus had endeavored to be loyal to us.

He said his son had been certain that his father would be with the expeditionary force, and, in route to the Bay of Pigs from Guaterala the son had searched for hir on the boats, and was disillussioned because his father wasn't there.

SECT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

-14-

Again he emphasised his view that the students sent to Latin American countries on propaganda missions should be indoctrinated by people in the Council to prepare them for the cross examining that they would undergo, and thereby prepare them against trans and foolish statertnts; and to insure that no Batista supporters were sent out. He orphazised that one of the first questions asked of these propaganda erissaries would be "hith what roney do you come here?" "khat Yankee organization is behind you." He added, "The people have to be well prepared to answer; just as I had to undergo a succession of penetrating questions when I first went into exile in Argentina ai could answer ther without hesitation because of a clean record."

Again ho came back to his urgurent that the collatoral organizations should function through the Council - not "forgetting the Agency, but not being forgotten by the Agency." I told Dr. Miro that I hoped during the course of the week to have a series of conversations in the course of which certain decisions and colutions would be reached that would enable me to sit down with him the following week and work out sore details on propagancia and other ratters.

Dr. Miro then asked, "How best can the security of this nation be Insured the Agency dealing directly with these people or working with ther through Firo?" And he emphasized that he was concerned both with the security of Cuba and of the United States, and that these people (Cubans with whom the Agency is dealing directly) at any moment when they felt they were losing out or were not sufficiently paid - would ask for more, and, being Cubans, right to very indiscrete; but that if they had to deal with Miro they sould be obligated to go to hit with their complaints. He said that just as a bee seeking sweets will go to any source, but if there is only one source it will go to that ones and that thus all groups Lust look to the Council.

Again Dr. Miro returned to his thesis that sooner or later there rust be var to overthrow Castro, and that Cutans and Azericans must realise this; that as a preliminary the Cubens must carry out sabotage, etc., but just as blockades didn't overthrow France or Mussolini, reither would they cause the fall of Castroj further that if saborage vas conducted with- out being a part of an overall plan of missions, the people inside Cuba would come to react adversely to the sabotage and align themselves with Castro.

He then expressed his view that time is teing sadly wasted in trying to bring the Latin American countries into agreerent with the U.S. against Castro, because, unfortunately, many are ruled by dictators and they fear concerted action against themselves, but if the U.S. attacks and destroys Castro they will applaud. Arain he repeated that the Punta del Este agreerent might well cause cany countries to say, "Thank you Fidel, and not, thank you Fr. Kennedy."

Dr. Miro emphasized that he wanted to collaborate with us fully. Then the conversation turned to the dissolution of the FRD by Varona, and Dr. Piro declared that this step was difficult for Varona, to take because he


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

-15-

had teen its cheef and in a high position and had thus subriitted to the Council. He declared his esteer for Varoni, a very brusque son but very hobeat. Ho cald Varona had declared with respect to the Argentine docucents that, "They are in Miami. I don't fool like sending ther to Argentina because they don't belong to Argentina. They telong to the thief that is Castro. Argentina has diplomatic relations with Cuba and if it feels like it, will send the documents to Cuba." Varona declared in the SIP that the Argentin military ren had deceived him because, having stated that they didn't trust the Argentine Foreign Office, they nevertheless took to arrentine the three docurents that wero riven to ther ans upon arrival turned her over to the Foreign Office. Viro edded that Varona stated tis clearly in the SIP reeting where two Argentine delegaten wore present. They said, ",ithout rentioning και 68, Doctor, do you declare this before the SIP?" "Yes, I declare it," ho replied, "an't they shut up.

Kiro added that Verons had declared last night, "Let then give us arms to finish off with Castro, but give ther to un! Whoever has them, give them to usi Dr. Miro then declared, "Were willing to diser bark, but here wo era just playing: ide and seek."

Dr. Viro then referred to his view that Diario de las Azerican should receive a small subsidy; thut sovetimes it published articles unfavorable to the li.s, but that usually, and it subsidized, would eliminate advorce iters,

Then I returned to the aubfact of the budget and concern hat ere on the Cowicil mayroil richt also be on H.E.. payroll. Ho repliord that for Octocer to would have thor swear that they were receiving no other Loney and rerarked that rary are on the payroll. He enwerated the different sections - delegations in Latin American countries, each person (two or three at rost in each country; received only enough to live cris without operating funda, lie said each chief of organization in the Council received 1400, "which is very little,"

He added that during the past outh with funds left over, he had ser.t to Fexico $3,00 because 30:6 240 peole had arrived there in need and hungry. He said C.I.A. aided with 15,000 and he had sent $3,000 because trey were Cutars. Further, that re had crovide! each organization with $700 for its expenses of sailing, offic a, car, etc., tut that tals wasn't a Fixed sur. He added that whatever ves left over he wanted to send to Cuta t those who re righting there.

He ceclared , "As fore they car reduce the budget to the wininum provided that they send funds to Cube; but as Groblers rust be resolved. This tayroll was rorised to re when I was rave president of the Council, and I didn't create it."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

-16-

I quarried about the expenses of his recruitment section, and he said be had told Paula to eliminate that item since recruiting is now done elsewhere, but the Military personnel in recruiting should be grouped in the military so that some form of intelligence agency could be maintained to provide information.

He affirmed that his military staff really consisted of three officers (Tarele, Domaigre, Pontoagulo) but that they had exrenpon of office, transportation, and secretarial help. As for his social welfare section, he said this had been established by and was necessary for dispensing redidainos, etc., for Cuban refugees here.

He declared that he hadn't touched any of the expenses (inherited from F(D)) except operating expenses, in order to give him a margin of funds to meet unforeseen urgent expenses.

He said, "I told Paula to eliminate all that could be eliminated; naturally he would have to consult with you." (Agency)

Relative to the Naval Section he said he planned to eliminate their expense allowance but not the section itself, because he deems it essential for matters such as sending arms to Cuba, since they cannot be sent by air; and that an office is necessary for them but their expenses must be cut off slowly.

As for the Medical Section which had been created before, he said only two "rutilados" (casualties) remained and that the section was to be eliminated. He reiterated that these sections had been created by us (Agency) and that they could only be eliminated gradually.

He affirmed that there was left for his use only some eleven or twelve thousand dollars for matters such as attendance at the SIP and Incenia affairs, and such minor propaganda affairs, but that he felt he should have restored to him the funds for propaganda (that had been going through Lestre).

I assured him that it was certainly intended that the Propaganda Commission now function under him as the propaganda section of the Council and that if Lestre was not considered to be its chief, that he should designate no one else. He declared that Lestre was in New York, had talked to Varona yesterday, and asked Varona that he should do, to which Varona replied, "Resign."

Piro then said he would like to put Conte Aguero in as head of propaganda but that Conte would not agree unless he told him to. Piro cautioned that the staff which Lestre had was very good but that Lestre was no good because he wanted to spend the whole day at a swimming pool. He mentioned Arrel del Cerro, Fermin Peinado, Ruben Dario Kurbaud. He said Angel del Cerro would be a good chief of propaganda, but that for this he would also like a good adviser such as Conte, who really is no expert to talk, but would like to be president. Piro said


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

-17-

Humberto Medrano, a reporter, also would be good to direct propaganda efforts. He added that testre, chief of propaganda for the film, which no longer exists, is the one who continues receiving the propaganda funds from Paula. He declared that he (Miro) didn't control these funds; that he didn't have anything except a bureaucracy.

I told him that I considered this problem of propaganda section and its operators should be corrected right away. He added that he felt that Radio Swan should be put under the propaganda section of the Council; further, that the propaganda section had to quit sending printed matter to the Latin American countries and instead send a format to each country so that they could be printed them with the terms used in each country; in Argentini, in Argentine style, in Brazil, in Portuguese; in Parara, in the manner of speaking in Panama; that such propaganda must be paid for. He affirmed that Humberto Medrano was a great reporter and hard worker and could handle this well; that Fermin Peinado was a fine worker who now is having a struggle to live, but works well at propaganda matters.

Again he said that the propaganda funds should pass through his control, and that I would take this up upon my return to Washington. Again he declared that he felt plans must be made for him and the Council to return to Cuba. I said this was a matter for the future.

We terminated our meeting with my statement that it would probably not be till the following week when I would return to Miami, after getting matters resolved in Washington. He said that he would probably be returning to Miami on Wednesday after the press luncheon..

I added that if it seemed desirable for him to come to Washington on route to Miami, I would call him; that otherwise I would look forward to seeing him in Miami. I said I felt we had covered a lot of ground, and thanked him for giving me so much of his time to our meeting.

Again he reiterated that he desired responsibility for all groups and that if he wasn't considered to be the right one, that he was ready and willing to resign. Upon this, we finished and I escorted him to the elevator of the hotel.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)