# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO: DOP, CI/CA, SAS 8, RF, NR

SECRET 222330Z

DIR INFO WAVE MNTY CITE MEXI 5620

PERUMEN:

1. REQUEST TRACES AND POA JORGE ANTONIO ABASOLO GARCIA, CUBAN,
   DOB 1927, INDUSTRIAL ENGINEER, GRADUATE GEORGIA TECH, ADDRESS
   CALLE 96 OXABER 308 TELEPHONE 2-6301, MIRAMAR, HAVANA. SUBJ DIVORCED
   FROM MARIE PAZ SOMEILLAN WHO NOW REPORTED LIVING WITH TWO CHILDREN
   AGES 5 AND 7 IN MNTY. SUBJ CHIEF OF DIVISION IN MINISTRY INDUSTRIES.
   WORKS CLOSELY WITH ERNESTO "CHE" GUEVARA. CONTROLS WOOD FURNITURE
   INDUSTRY, PORTION OF PAPER INDUSTRY INCLUDING PAPER-SACKS, TOY
   INDUSTRY, ONE OTHER UNSPECIFIED INDUSTRY. HAS HAD SOME CONTACT WITH
   SOVIETS IN CONNECTION WITH CEMENT PROCUREMENT - RECENTLY REPORTED
   BELIEF SOVS CONSTRUCTING SUBMARINE BASE IN CUBA. CAME TO MEXICO
   ON SPECIAL PASSPORT 2 AUG 63 TO SEE CHILDREN BUT FORMER WIFE MANAGED
   PREVENT CONTACT. RETURNED CUBA 21 AUG.

2. BROTHER OF SUBJ IS GUSTAVO ABASOLO, CUBAN, ABOUT 42, LEFT
   CUBA ABOUT
   1959 OR 1960 GOING FIRST TO BERMUDA, LATER TO MEXICO.

EMPLOYED CONTINUOUSLY 22 YEARS COMPANIA INTERAMERICANA DE SEGUROS.
NOW ASSISTANT MANAGER SALES FOR MEXICO. STRONGLY ANTI-CASTRO,
FRIEND OF AMSEVER-2. CORRESPONDS WITH SUBJ THROUGH NETHERLANDS
EMBASSY DILOMATIC POUCH. AT STATION REQUEST THROUGH-A-2 GUSTAVO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

RECENTLY ASKED SUBJ IF WOULD BE WILLING FURNISH "CERTAIN INFORMATION" FOR A-2 WHOM SUBJ KNOW'S AS ANTI-CASTRO. SUBJ GAVE TENTATIVE AGREEMENT BUT ASKED HOW FAR DO YOU WANT ME TO GO?

3. SUBJ PLANNING TO LEAVE CUBA AT END OF YEAR, DISILLUSIONED WITH REGIME. BELIEVE STATION MIGHT BE ABLE PERSUADE HIM STAY IN PLACE.

4. DIVORCED MOTHER OF EX-WIFE HAS RE-MARRIED TO JOAQUIN MIRABAL, COMMUNIST; FORMER "CHIEF OF SECURITY SERVICE" HAVANA, RECENTLY FROMOTED TO MORE IMPORTANT POSITION.

5. ABOVE INFO FROM GUSTAVO ABASOLO, FLESHED OUT BY A-2 WHO MET SUBJ DURING AUGUST SOJOURN MEXI. NO STATION TRACES ANY PERSONS MENTIONED HEREIN EXCEPT FOR CONFIRMATION SUBJ TRAVEL. LIFIRE LISTS SHOW HE CARRIED SPECIAL PASSPORT 63/442, SHOW HIS ADDRESS AS CALLE 34 NUMBER 1712, MARIANAO.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)