# SECRET

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: WAVE

ACTION: IW

INFO: DDP, ADDP, Sep 6, DOOS, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, F1,FI/D, CI/INT 6, SAS 12, DD/1, WH 8, AD/CI 2, AD/ME

TOCSDB-3/658,079

SECRET 2623097

NOV 27 02172 63 IN 68594

DIR INFO LANT PACY BARR CITE WAVE 8188

INTEL TYPIC

SUPDATA: AMKHAN-2 RECEIVED 251245 LOCAL. REF BARR 1391 (IN ).

PREVIOUS MENTION OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON "NOT PREVIOUSLY SEEN" UFG-3958

A-2 FROM EDUARDO PEREZ REPEAT PEREZ DUANEY (PROTECT). RID NO INDEX.

FILED 2623097Z. REPORT CLASS: SECRET CONTROLLED DISSEM NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY: CUBA

SUBJ: SIGHTING OF TANKS WITH TWIN CANNONS IN THE AREA OF HABANA.

DOI: 23 NOV 63. PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOV 63) UFG 4130

SOURCE: AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES IN HABANA, SOURCE HAS REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY PERSONEL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF AN AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE IN HABANA

10957

TOCS PRECEDENCE

RELEASING:

![signature of Edward Weld]

DATE DISTRIBUTED: 27 NOV 1963

BASED ON: urg-4130

LIAISON: Background Use Only

# SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

SECRET

COUNTRY CUBA

SUBJECT TANKS WITH TWIN CANNON IN THE AREA OF HABANA

REPORT NO. TDCS DB-3/658,079

DATE DISTR. 27 NOVEMBER 1963

DATE OF INFO 23 NOVEMBER 1963

REFERENCES IN 68504

PLACE & DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (26 NOVEMBER 1963)

APPRAISAL THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADING ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE AN EDUCATED CUBAN OF WESTERN EUROPEAN EXTRACTION WHO LIVES IN HAVANA, SOURCE HAS REPORTED MILITARY INFORMATION ACQUIRED BY PERSONAL OBSERVATION. SOURCE'S RELIABILITY HAS NOT YET BEEN ESTABLISHED. THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A MANAGER OF AN AGRICULTURAL ENTERPRISE IN HABANA.

1. ON 23 NOVEMBER 1963, ABOUT 200 TANKS WERE OBSERVED, APPARENTLY PARTICIPATING IN MANEUVERS, IN AN AREA AT THE INTERSECTION OF VIA MONUMENTAL AND CARRETERA CENTRAL. MANY OF THE TANKS HAD TWIN CANNON MOUNTED AND WERE A TYPE PREVIOUSLY NOT OBSERVED BY THE EYEWITNESS.

(FIELD COMMENT) A CUBAN WHO HAS PROFESSIONAL CONTACT WITH RELATIVES OF OFFICIALS IN CUBAN GOVERNMENT CIRCLES AND A VARIETY OF CONTACTS IN WESTERN CUBA, REPORTED THAT ON 23 OCTOBER THE ORENBURG BROUGHT A NUMBER OF ARMORED VEHICLES WHICH WERE CALLED LANZA LLAMAS (FLAME THROWERS) AND WERE A TYPE NOT PREVIOUSLY OBSERVED IN CUBA.

THESE TANKS CARRIED TWO CANNON WHICH APPEARED SIMILAR TO THE 152 MM

SECRET

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

ARTILLERY PIECE.)

2. AS OF THAT SAME DATE THERE WAS A LARGE MILITARY CAMP TO THE WEST OF VIA MONUMENTAL JUST BEFORE REACHING THE CARRETERA CENTRAL. (FIELD COMMENT. THIS IS PROBABLY THE LOMA DE TIERRA MILITARY AREA WHICH HAS RECENTLY SEEN A LARGE INFLUX OF VEHICLES AND MATERIEL).

3. FIELD DISSEMI CINCLANT, CINC50, COMNAVREYWEST.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)