# SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Cover Support Desk

FROM : Mr. Robert J. Leonard

SUBJECT : TARASOFF, Anna
#131751 B-SB/2

NOTE:
I requested Bob Leonard to give me a copy of this memo.

M.K. Holbek
RO/PSD
10/20/00



GIST:
A special meeting was convened to consider the problem of the prospective visit of Subject's father to the Russian Embassy to obtain a visa. It was determined that he should not be briefed in advance and that an army cover be provided for Subject.

DETAILS:

1.  On 13 October 1960 the undersigned as representative of the Office of Security met with Mr. Birch O'Neal, CI Staff; T.K. Chalmers, CI/Projects; Henry C. Woodward, CCG/DC; 03 Thornton W. Means, OCG/OCB and the Subject to discuss the problem of a prospective trip to the Russian Embassy by the Subject's father for a trip to Russia.

2.  Mr. O'Neal had Mrs. TARASOFF recount the details of the situation. She said that several months ago her father ANTHONY ADAMOVIEZ had indicated an interest in attempting to locate his brother and sisters in Russia. He sent correspondence to his home town and received a reply from his sister MARIYA KALNAK, c/o KALINOTSKIY, VZDEN SKIY RAYON, MINSKAYA, U.S.S.R.. She stated that his brother IVANU YULYANOVICHU ADOMOVICHU was also living. This correspondence inspired ADAMOVIEZ with the desire to visit his brother and sister in Russia upon his retirement. ADOMOVICHU, age 66, in good health, recently retired from his job as a laborer with American Steel and Wire Company and is now determined to visit Russia. Subject's mother has no intention of returning to Russia.

3. Mrs. TARASOFF, on her return from a short vacation visit to her husband BORIS D. TARASOFF, an Agency employee on TDY in Mexico, visited her parents in Ohio and was informed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

of her father's intention to come to Washington to make
inquiry at the Russian Embassy in regard to his visit to
Russia. Subject's father wished Subject to accompany him
but she indicated that as a government employee she did
not want to go there.

4. Mrs. TARASOFF says that her oldest sister, Mrs.
   Sherry COMELLA knows of her CIA employment and the necessity
   not to divulge this information. Subject stated that her
   father and mother know only that she is a government employee.
   They are not interested in the Agency or Department where
   she or her husband is employed. Subject also advised that
   although her landlady and Sears Roebuck Department Store know
   her as CIA she is not aware that anyone else knows.

5. Mr. O'Neal asked what could be done about this
   situation. Mr. Means said that Subject's husband is in
   Mexico under light state cover but had previously been
   backstopped firmly as a contract employee of the Department
   of State, Escort Branch, Division of Language Services. He
   said he would firm up this backstop so that in the event of
   inquiry at that Division of State it would be confirmed that
   he is in Mexico on an assignment. Mr. Woodward stated that
   he would provide a U.S. Army Translation Unit cover for
   Mrs. TARASOFF retroactive to her entrance on duty. The.
   ündersigned stated that he would conduct expedite credit
   checks on the Subject and her husband to ascertain whether or
   not they had been recorded as Agency employees.

6. It was agreed among the conferees that since the
   father of Subject was unwitting of Subject's CIA employment
   he would not be specially briefed on what to answer in the
   event that the question was asked in connection with his
   VISA application. It was agreed that not knowing the specific
   Department of Government he would have to consult his daughter
   and then she could give the cover which had been prepared for
   her. The undersigned pointed out the possibility that Subject's
   father might know of Subjects employment but it was agreed
   that in view of his age and background it was very improbable
   and that it would be better not to brief him specifically
   on Subjects employment but to let the question be handled
   naturally.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

7. Subsequent to the meeting expedite credit checks on the Subject and her husband revealed no record at either the Credit Bureau or Stone's. It has subsequently been learned that Subject's father had visited the Embassy and had been asked to give a short history and the names of his children. Subject was listed by her father in her maiden name. Consequently no further difficulty is expected in this matter. The Office of Security is to be kept advised of further developments in this case by T. K. Chalmers, Subject's supervisor.

ACTION:

None. Information only.

Robert J. Leonard

Note: The question of Subject and/or her husband employment did not care up and accordingly was not given to her father or the fantasia embassy.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)