# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : DOP, CI/OPS, CI/OA, SAS &, VR

SECRET 0123562

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 6761

PERIMEN

REF: A. MEXI 6620 (1W 45873)

E. DIR 79276

1. FOLLOWING DEVELOPMENTS AS RESULT MEETING WITH ANSWER-2 OCT 30 AND 1 NOV.

2. SUBJ IN FREQUENT CUNIACI WITH ERNEST: "CHE" GUEVARA.

3. ADDITIONAL MOTIVATION BEHIND SUBJ PLAN LEAVE CUBA IS DEST BE ABLE HELP SUPPORT CHILDREN.

4. POUCH COMMO SYSTEM NOW IN EFFECT WORKS AS FOLLOWS.

BROTHER GIVES LETTERS TO MISS (FNU) [FRESIAINE] AI [NETHERLANDS] EMBASSY, MEXI, OUTER ENVELOPE MARKED FOR [CORNELIS BJIPUST] [ETHENBASSY, MAVA. INNER ENVELOPE MARKED FOR SUBJ CARE OF E. CABANES] [CABANES] DELIVERS LETTERS TO SUBJ FOR WHOM HE WORKS. SYSTEM WORKS BOTH WAYS.

5. A-2 KNOWS [CABANES], FURTHER CONER [NUEVA PAPELERA DE PUENTES GRANDES] IS OLD MAN, SICK, GOING BLIND. BROTHER OF SUBJ SENDS MEDICINES TO [CABANES] THROUGH POUCH. [CABANES] ARRANGED COMMO CHANNEL AS RESULT HIS FORMER DIPLOMATIC CONNECTIONS.

A-2 BELIEVES [CABANES] MAY HAVE WORKED FOR [SPANISH] FOREIGN SERVICE IN PAST, WAS ORIGINALLY [SPANISH] CITIZEN

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

6. A-2 HAS BEEN INSTRUCTED GET WORD TO PUSH ASAP THAT HE CAN SERVE SELF, CHILDREN, AND DEMOCRATIC CAUSE BEST BY STAYING IN PLACE. LETTER TO INDICATE THAT FINANCIAL AID FOR CHILDREN CAN BE ARRANGED IN MEXICO. THIS FIRST LETTER, OSTENSIBLY FROM BROTHER, BUT ACTUALLY DRAFTED BY A-2, WILL NOT HOLD OUT SPECIFIC AMOUNT AS BAIT BUT WILL SOUND SUBJ OUT ON WILLINGNESS STAY IN PLACE IN RETURN FOR SOLUTION CHILD SUPPORT PROBLEMS AND GOOD CHANCE OF HAVING NAME CLEARED AFTER FALL OF CASTRO REGIME.

7. BELIEVE APPROX TWO THOUSAND PESOS MONTHLY PAYABLE IN MEXICO MIGHT DO THE TRICK. WILL KEEP HQS INFORMED ALL DEVELOPMENTS.

8. PLS POUCH SOONEST COMPLETE PERSONALITY PROFILE ON SUBJ.

FROM CLOSE FRIEND MARIO DE LA GUARDIA OF REF B.

9. INDEX [221-356959]

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *SUBJ IS JORGE ANTONIO ABASOLO GARCIA*


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)