14-00000
104-10219-10283
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HX-17
17 July 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Federal barras of Investigatiss

SUBJECT: Pernon Ferguson MITCHELL,
William Hamilton MARTIN,
Lepionage.

1. Reference is made to the following communicatives, which conteis information pertinent to the saw information reparted la suc- coding paragraphat

a. klemorendam of 16 June 1961 from this Agency addressed to the Faticaal Security Agency, a copy of which was furcarded to your Baraav. captioned as above.

b. Bureza letter of it June 1961, addreoued in the Directar, Nailenal Berurity Agency, with copy to this Agonry, captioneda Bernon Ferguson iTCHELL, Williaca homiltos MARTIN; MISCELLANEOUS - INFORMATION CONCERNING.

c. Department of Immigrative Name Check Request Fosun. File A-2, dated 18 June 19él adérossed 10 your Eureau with copy te this Agency, is the name of Jesio tiRRA, bora 14 July 1916, Mezien. D. F.. who entered the United States at Now Orleane, Louisiana, on 18 June 1961 with destination addrons of Mexican ambassy, Washington, D.C. (Not sent information address)

d. Varioss earlier Department of Immigratios Name Choch Reqrsts on Juste EIERRA covering his previous trips to the country. (Net to bl&A)

e. Our memorandum of 29 December 1969, addressed to your Baroon, cur referense CSCI-4/169, 270 with enclosare, Subject: SIERRA, Jasto: Visa - inexican, and cartier communications forward- ing name trece resalta an chie lodiviésal. (Not is NSA)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

c. Further lequiries in Mexico by our efficiale there revealed that Nicolas DAMASCUS bed been ordered to leave Mexice in October 1960 soloty because of the expiration of his tourist card, which bad been once extended. aoxican Records fail to show that be returned to Mexico, ellering Me entry into the United States et Brownsville, Texas, irom Matamaras, Tamaulipas on 24 October 1960. Upar arrival in Mexico on 22 Juso 1960, ko indicated that the purpose of his visit was to attend the wedding of his sister, Anastasio, Montilled in preceding paragraph, however, as of 21 June 1961, there was na racora of Anastasie DAMASCUS aka DAMASCOU is official Mexican Files, and there.as
• as you es igeatification of the individual she was alleged to have been scheduled to marry. From the same source it was learned that for the paried 21 Juns through & september 1160, the caly address listed in official indices for Nicolas DAMASCUS to c/o Jasto SIERRA, Relorma 95-407, Lexico City, which is the law office maintained by Justo SIERRA Casasue, farmar Counselor of the Maxican Embassy in Washington, D.C.., and who to further ideatified is the documents cited in paragraph 1. c. through h. above. DAMASCUS reportedly used slEARA to attempt to obsado an extension ci hic tourist permit, although the details of his con tacte with and knowledge of Sladka himself are not haswn at this time. Neither has it been possible as of this date to verify the reported cen-Lact between Ficolas DAMASCUS and Subjects at the listel New Yorker, as reparted by lar. Thomas DONLON. Investigatisa efforts abroad by thie Agency are continuing, however, and any further information developed will be forwarded as soon as avaliabio.

9. la light of the escape route voed by the two NEA defectors, transitting diexico and presumably Cabe enroute to be Us54, your particular attention is invited to the information carceraing the contacte and views of Jasto MERRA Casasen furnished in the reports clied in paragraph i. e.. f., and g. above. It is noted Justo SILARA Cassand le identical with the sonor Des Justo SIERRA, First Secretary at the Embossy ef Mexico, mentioned in Bureau Reporte cited in paragraph h. above as a contact of Boris A. KAZANISEV, First Secretary of the Soviet Embassy in Washington from 1952-54. It 16 further noted that Boris KAZANTSEV, alter returning to sicscow in 1954 and assuming the poet of First Secretary in the Latin Accican Division of the USSR Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was next assigned from 1955 to 1957 as First Secretary and subsequently Counselor of the Savior Embassy in Maxico City, and that as of 1960 he was assigned to the Soviet Embassy in Havana, Cuba, in the position of Counselor, departing Havana for Merice, in company of his wife and daughter, on 10 Jene 1761, and thon proceeding to Canada on 2 July 1961.

SENET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

1.  Teletyped informatics Report from this agency, dated 9 April 1959, Report No. IDC8-3/639.947. Subject: Contacte Between Fidel CASTRO Rus and Lazaro CARDENAS.

g. Intelligence Ropart of this Agency dated 7 Eeptember 1956,
Repert Repart No. CS-102629, subject: "Marxist Indoctrination at the Partido Popular."

h. Bureau Report dated 17 June 1954, preparedat Washington, D.C. by Special Agent Boya D. Adsit, captioned: Soviet Cultivation of Latin American Lapionats - Internal Security - R and Berean letter of 21 August 1954, addressed to this Agency, forvaring as Lactsoure Vaskington Meld flice Report ef is nagust 1954, prepared by Special Agent William C. Cregar on the same subject, Dareau file Keicrenesi 105-22386. (Not is NSA)

2. Since the eriting of our memorandum of 14 June 1961, (cl. para l.a. abovek the following supplementary Leformation has been developed concerning Nicolas Goerges DAMASCUS aka DAMASK whe is a ceatact and cliens of Justo alkRRA Casases, eestioned in the communications referenced in paragraphs i. c. theroch a above.

a. Nicoles Georges DAMASCUS reportedly is cincially listed la Egypt soder the name of Nicolas George DAMASCOU, bera 10 March 1951 at Alexandria, the eam of George DAMASCO and Angelika DAMASCOU ROSAVOURAS. He is a Greek natissal and halda Greek citizenship. From 1947 through. 1957, he resided at 57 Metiopolie Street in Alexandria. Haproeventatives of this Agency in Alonsodris advice that local available Fecords indicate thet se of May 1959. Nicolas DAMASCCU resided &i & uirtley Place, Elizabeth Day. Sydney, Austrella, and that be listed his occupatis as thes of Clork. Car field recorde indicate that as of hay 1959, the Laited States Con- Sulate in Sydney had sarme interest in him, and it is suggested that the Indices of the Department of State may costate forther infer=silan coa- cerning this individuel.

b. Anastasie (or Azastasia) George DAMASCUS ماء DAMASCCU, eleter of Nicolas DAMASCUS, above, was bera march 1933, place of birth bet indicated bat presumably Egypt was identified by Ear representatives in Alezanáriajes having filed application fer a United States Visa at London, England in July 1956, listung her occupation as that of entertainer. It is suggested that the Visa Files of the Depart- ment of State may contais additional information se this individual.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

4. The records of this Agency indicate that Boris A. KAZANTSEV is a known Soviet Intelligence Officer, most probably representing Soviet State Security (KGB). It is requested that any further information which may be reflected in the indices of your Bureau, or those of information addressee, reflecting upon the relationship of Nicolas Georges DAMASCUS aka DAMASCCU and his sister Anastasia Georges DAMASCUS aka DAMASCCO with Justo SIERRA Casasus, on the latter's contacts with representatives or agents of the CASTRO government in Cuba, or on SIERRA's continued contacts with KAZANTSEV or other suspect Soviet officials or agents in this country or elsewhere be forwarded to this Agency as quickly as possible. A request along the same lines has already been forwarded to our representatives in Mexico City, and you will be kept advised of any further information which may be developed in this regard.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

WILLIAM K. HARVEY

2 cc: National Security Agency

DD/P/FI/D/APotocki:mem

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - addressee
1 - CS Copy- 100-6-124/3
2 - OS/SRS
1 - CI/OPS
1 - 201-282337
L - 201-282338

Based on:
201-24592, SIERRA
ALEX 2793 (IN 37468), 12 Jul 61
MEXI 8266 (IN 28014), 21 Jun 61
DIR 49505 (OUT 79310), 7 Jul 61


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)