# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 95-2040015

SENSIND

PAGE: 1

SECRET

FRP:

STAFF

CONF: C/OCC INFO: C/ORMS, CTC/IEB, CTC/IFC, CTCARCHIVE, EUR/LGL,
EUR/SA, LIMITO, MDSX, OCC/OSG, ODPD, FILE, C/PCS (2/P)

95 2040015 ASP PAGE 001
TOT: 192210Z OCT 95 DIRECTOR 493642

SECRET

STAFF 1922102 DIRECTOR 493642

TO: PRIORITY VIENNA.

FROM: LIMIT CHIEF/OCC INFO OCC/OSG, CHIEF/PCS, C/EUR/SA, EUR/LGL, OGC/OSD, OGC/OFLD

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR STATION ASSISTANCE

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: REQUEST STATION CONTACT FORMER EMPLOYEE RETIRED UNDER COVER AND RESIDES IN VIENNA.

2. BASED ON OUR COMPLIANCE WITH PRESIDENT<JFK ASSASSINATION>
   RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992, HQS REQUESTS STATION'S ASSISTANCE IN DELIVERING INFORMATION INCLUDED BETWEEN TEAR LINES TO IDEN:

LINE- -TEAR

OCTOBER 6, 1995

DEAR COLLEAGUE:

PLEASE BE AWARE THAT YOUR NAME APPEARS IN DOCUMENTS THAT ARE BEING REVIEWED FOR RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC UNDER PUBLIC LAW 102-526 *OF 26 OCTOBER 1992, THE PRESIDENT<JOHN>F.<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION> RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992. THIS MANDATES THE PUBLIC RELEASE OF ALL INFORMATION IN THESE DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING YOUR NAME WHERE IT APPEARS, UNLESS THE ORIGINATING AGENCY CAN PROVE BY CLEAR AND CONVINCING EVIDENCE TO A PRESIDENTIALLY-APPOINTED BOARD THAT ONE OR MORE LIMITED EXCEPTIONS APPLY. EVEN THEN, THE RELEASE OF THE INFORMATION MAY ONLY BE POSTPONED FOR NO MORE THAN 25 YEARS. THE ACT IS VERY PRO-RELEASE AND REQUIRES A BALANCING OF THE PUBLIC INTEREST.

UNDER THE BOARD'S INTERPRETATION OF THE ACT, YOUR NAME CANNOT BE REDACTED FROM THE DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED UNLESS WE CAN PROVIDE EVIDENCE THAT THIS RELEASE WOULD POSE A CREDIBLE THREAT TO SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO 95-2040015
SECRET
SENSIND?
PAGE: 2

YOU PERSONALLY, YOUR FAMILY, OR ANY SENSITIVE ACTIVITY OR
PERSON(S) YOU MAY HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH IN THE PAST. IF YOU
BELIEVE THAT ANY OF THESE CONCERNS WOULD BE RAISED FROM THE PUBLIC
RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, PLEASE CONTACT BERT MILLS AT (703) 356-0285
OR 1-800-447-2211 YOU WILL NEED TO PROVIDE THE PERTINENT DETAILS
SO THAT A COMPELLING CASE CAN BE PRESENTED TO THE BOARD. IF THE
BOARD ORDERS THE RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, ITS RULING CAN BE REVERSED
ONLY BY THE PRESIDENT. BECAUSE THE BOARD MUST COVER HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOCUMENTS IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS, IT WILL BE
CONSIDERING DOCUMENTS AT AN ACCELERATING PACE AND WE CANNOT
PROJECT WHEN IT MAY REVIEW A DOCUMENT CONTAINING YOUR NAME.
THEREFORE, PLEASE CONTACT ME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE IF APPROPRIATE.

SINCERELY,
(SIGNED BERT MILLS)

LINE----------------------------------------------------TEAR

2. HQSWOULD PREFER THAT IDEN PASS RESPONSE TO STATIONT
   OFFICER FOR FORWARDING TO HOS VIA THIS CHANNEL. APPRECIATE
   STATION'S ASSISTANCE

3. FILE: 785-120-034. DECL OADR DRV COV 2-87->
   RELNO: E262767
   ORIG: OCC/OSG (MATHIAS, 37076); AUTH: OCC/OSG (BURGGRAF); COORD:
   EUR/LGL (COMFORT);; INFO: CHIEF/PCS (MASSENGALE), OGC/OSD
   (EATINGER), OGC/OFLD (CRAWFORD);; REL: C/EUR/SA,(BEVAN) CL.BY
   04899325

END OF MESSAGE
SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)