# INTERVIEW PROCESSING SHEET

Subject: Mosley David L. # 39418
Advice received reveals thatthe subject person is scheduled for overseas travel as indicated below -
Departure Date 28 Nov 55
Title & Grade GS-12 4/ Columbus Det.
Destination Cassa Blanca Office & Division VYH
Cover State Antique Passport Type & No.
Return Date

PRELIMINARY PROCESSING - A reviewof this file and the above information reveals:

*   No special briefing topics or See below

*   No special cover problems or See below

*   No special debriefing by other or Requires debriefings on (as circled) SI Q CRYPT

*   No special badges or credentials or See remarks

REMARKS

Date of Polygraph 10/53 out 11/53
C 10/55

INTERVIEW - On the indicated date subject was interviewed on the following points:

1. Security regulations in general.
2. Travel Precautions (to carry nothing identifying him with CIA).
3. Cover Story (nature of cover; adequacyor prior briefing; possibility of inconsistencies; briefing of spouse).
4. Personal Affairs (proper handling of bank account, credit accounts, for- warding of mail).
5. Personal Correspondence (no mention of CIA in letters to and from subject).
6. Personal Conduct (a. general good behavior, b. no black market or currency transactions, c. po undue duriosity in natives in his area, d. no attempts to identify or approach otherCIA personnel in area except for official business and through official channels).
7. Other Travel (only official travel in or through Soviet controlled areas).
8. Other:

ACTION -

Security debriefing by the undersigned completes action necessary in this case.

The following were obtained from subject and forwarded appropriately for disposition.

or

Subject was referred to the following for the indicated additional briefing:

Subject waspermitted to retain the following for turn in at a later date.

By: R. Beria Wittes

Date: 28 Nov 55

X David L Morales


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)