14-00000
104-10263-10111 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BO. TOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS                         | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------------------------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 2   | *Lore pl. nete Pack*                     |      |          |
| 3   | *Comments When de*                       |      |          |
| 4   | *alote for*                              |      |          |
| 5   | *date for loosit to Rucske*              |      |          |
| 6   | *will 10211 you folfer his apart 5d. S.* |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

> [Figure: A handwritten note with illegible handwriting]

> Paul- dueto
> 8 of P.P. 1stme
> Nota Rina & se d
> 7 Feb.
> of stitubation.





FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL HEGRET
FORM NO. 237 Use previous editions


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

23 December 1966

Tom:

I'm not overly enthusiastic about the possibilities of getting much from SKEMEF-1; however, I would like to meet him and chat about his friends and business associates in the N/L Islands. He possibly might be used as an entree to reporting or support assets.

It would be my opinion that we would not have to bring his clearance up to date to chat with him.

Paul

I've not made any notes from the files; therefore, if Ed agrees to helping us, details should be forwarded to me prior to my departure for San Juan.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA

ATTENTION : Gale W. Allen

SUBJECT : FERRE, Luis Albert
$215 627

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 5 January 1965 which requested a Covert Security Approval be granted Subject for briefing on KUBARK objectives in WUBRINY D and propose long term ecsmercial collaboration of mutual advantage, Project WUBRINY.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3. Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security (IOS)

S-E-C-R-F-T
(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
When Filled In

30 Dec 1974
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974, I have reviewed the 201 file on *Ferre* (surname) (201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

should be closed.

witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

potential witting collaborator; date opened OI Code A2.

former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3. - *Perhaps, still some DCD interest - file not clear.*

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

all others. OI Code A6.

Signed *J. Mayer*
(name)
*Desk Offier LA/BRH*
(title) (component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed *KAM*
(initials)
*6 JAN 1975*
(date)

This document is a permanent part of this file.

![Secret]

When Filled In
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

801-205712
EZ IMPDET
CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-P-E-T
(When Filled In)

MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA

ATTENTION : Gale W. Allen

SUBJECT : FERRE, Luis Albert
#215 627

1.  Reference is made to your memorandum dated 5 January 1965 which requested a Covert Security Approval be granted Subject for briefing on KUBARK objectives in WUBRINY D and propose long term commercial collaboration of mutual advantage, Project WUBRINY.

2.  In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction Field No. 10-5, a Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above.

3.  Subjects of Covert Security Approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4.  Your attention is called to the fact that a Covert Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

5.  This approval becomes invalid in the event the Subject's services are not utilized within six months of the date of this memorandum.

for R.D. Sparihm

Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security (IOS)

S-E-C-R-F-T
(When Filled In)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Skewer/1 201

26 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Antilles Material Company Limited (AMCO) -
Meeting with SKEWER/1 on the Relationship
of the Puerto Rican Cement Company to AMCO

1. As agreed in his ii January 1965 meeting with SKEWER/1, Hr. Edward Stanulis telephoned SKEWER/1 on the morning of 18 January to arrange a meeting with SKEWER/1 at his convenience later in the day. SKEWER/1 suggested a meeting at 1500 hours that afternoon in his office at the Puerto Rican Iron Works in Fonce. He indicated to Mr. Stanulis that the Puerto Rican Cement Company looks with favor on AMCO and is doing business with it through its Manager, Mr. Alvin T. Philpotts, Jr.

2. Prior to the meeting, Messrs. Allen, Carter, and Stanulis reviewed the approach to be made to SKEWER/1 in the light of his favorable view of AMCO. It was agreed that no mention would be made of the fact that AMCO is in poor financial condition or that Mr. Philpotte is inadequate as a manager. Stress would be laid upon assessment of the long-term commercial viability of AMCO because KUBARK is ostensibly interested in placing an officer in a managerial position in AMCO, or some other similar firm, in order to monitor Castro's activities in the Caribbean area.

3. Messrs. Allen, Carter, and Stanults arrived precisely at 1500 hours at SKEWER's office on the second floor of the Puerto Rican Iron Works. His male secretary asked us to take seats in the corridor outside his office. Within a few minutes his secretary reappeared and asked us to wait in the Conference Room. Some ten minutes later SKEWER/1 appeared and invited us into his private office. He war extremely cordial and gracious. Mr. Stanulis introduced Mr. Allen as a colleague who is assessing AMCO's commercial viability. He introduced Mr. Carter as a lawyer consultant who is obtaining background information in the event KUBARK should decide to proceed with placement of an officer in AMCO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

4. Mr. Allen informed SKEWER/1 that KUBARK is assessing the factors bearing on the long-term commercial viability of AMCO. Se explained that such an assessment is necessary because K:MARK does not want to place an officer in a company which is not commercially viable for the long term. One of the factors bearing on the commercial viability of AMCO is the relationship of the Puerto Rican Cement Company with AMCO and the terms of any agreements. We would also like his views on commodities other than cement witici can be sἁρμού το Mesto co to the outer islands and what commodities can be shipped on return voyages. Another factor of interest is competition in the shipping field.

5. SKEVER/1 indicated that he needed some clarification of KUBARK objectives. Mr. Stanulis reviewed KUBARK ostensible interest in having an experienced commercial man in a commercially viable shipping company for the purpose. ✓of checking on Castro activities in the Caribbean area. SKEWER/1 assumed that Mr. Fhilpotta was the man in whom we are interested. Mr. Allen dispelled this assumption. explaining that KUBARK has a candidate whom we would like to place in a managerial position in A100 if it is ceter- mined that NMCO is commercially viablo. KUBARK would seek to effect this placement through a friend on the Board who, like SKEWER/1, has helped KUBANK in the past and would undoubtedly help again. SKEWER/1 said, "Oh, yes, through the top man in the company." He then asked if Mr. Thilpotts would know of KUBARK interest. Mr. Allen replied no, emphasizing that our interest should be closely held.

6. SKEWER/1 said that he had not realized that we wanted so much detail and asked if we desired to talk with the man in his company most familiar with ANCO. Mr. Stanulis declined, emphasizing that we wanted to keep our interest in this matter confined solely to SKEWER/1. SKEWER/1 1m- mediately agreed to make the necessary telephone calls to obtain answers to our questions. As the basis for his inquiry, he would ask about the amount of credit extenced by the Puerto Rican Cement Company to AMCO. SKEWER/1 then made a series of telephone calls to one of his subordinates named Tomas and also made one call to his son. The following information was obtained in the above telephone calls:

a. AMCO has 2 or 3 ships under charter and ships primarily coment to Martinque, Guadaloupe, Barbados, and Antigue.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

b. The uerto Rican Cement Company has a verbal agreement with fr. Thilpotts granting him exclusive distribution of cement in Guadaloupe, Barbados, and Antigua,

c. AMCO currently owes the Puerto Rican Cement Company $40,000 and is slow in payment.

d. The normal procedure for payment is for the consignee to pay Mr. Philpotts by a note which the Puerto Rican Cement Company discounts.

e. The Puerto Rican Cement Company is currently examining how much credit it can extend to ANCO. In this connection the company is examining whether credit extended to AMCO can be insured under the Foreign Credit Insurance Association. (FCIA insures 80% of export credit.) If so, the risk to the Puerto Rican Cement Company would be reduced and further credit could be extended.

f. The Puerto Rican Cement Company has sold 133,000 bags of cement to AMCO.

7. SKEWER/1 said that Mr. Philpotts is aggressive and that he is pushing Fuerto Rican cement. Mr. Carter asked SKEWER/1 if his firm were worried about the amount of credit extended to AMCO. SKEWER/1 replied that AMCO is trying to help the Puerto Rican Cement Company and Puerto Rican Cement is in turm trying to help ANCO. SKEWER/1 Imparted the impression that he has absolute confidence in his subordinates. In calling Tomas, SKEWER/1 said to us that he had gone over the head of his son. SKEWER/1 was not aware that ANCO Puerto Rico is a subsidiary of AMCO Panama. en apprised of this fact, he said that this arrangement is probably for tax purposes. SKEWER/1 left the impression that he considers AMCO as a Puerto Rican company and one worthy of support. He recalled that he had previously given a job to a Trujillo opponent, Fred Imbert, whom no one else would hire, Mr. Imbert now has his om shipping company and SKEWER/1 suggested that we assess his operation. He recalled that Mr. Trujillo had telephoned him about harboring a criminal. SKEWER/I told Trujillo to mind his own business as would SKEWER/1. Mr. Stanulis indicated that KURARK would not want to consider Fred Imbert's opera- tion, given his family's involvement in the Dominican Republic. Throughout the conversation, the picture emerged of a man who trusts his subordinates and who would help an individual or fim, particularly fuerto Rican, which is also trying to help his firm.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

-4-

8. Mr. Allen said that we would assess the situation carefully, and in the event it should be determined to proceed, we would advise him. Mr. Allen informed him that two New York firms have invested In ANCO, namely, H. S. Kies and Company, and Train, Cabot and Associates. Our friend is Mr. Train, who as he surmised, is the top man in his firm. Mr. Allen revealed this information to SKEWER/1 in the event that it should be deemed desirable for Mr. Train to negotiate with the Puerto Rican Cement Company. Conversely, in the event of ACO's failure, it was felt that SKEWER/1 should know that KUBARK is not connected with any other participants. SKEWER/1 offered full cooperation. He had arranged his schedule to give us as much time as necessary. In our presence he received a telephone call in which he apologized for cancelling an appointment in order to accommodate us. It is considered that, as in his past relations with KUBARK, SKEWER/1 can be trusted and will help KURARK in any way he can.

Distribution:
Orig. - Ops file
1 - WUBRINY D file
1 - SKEWER/1 201
1 - chrono

SECRET

GALE W. ALLEN
DOCO/SA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

13 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Record

SUBJECT: Project WUBRINY--Antilles Materials Company, Ltd., Discussion by Mr. Edward Stanulis with SKEWER/1.

1. I made initial telephonic contact with SKEWER/1 at approximately 1100 hours on 10 January 1965 and made arrangements for a meeting in my hotel room for the following day between the hours of 1600 and 1700 to be followed by another on Tuesday at a time and place that would be convenient for SKEWER/1. Later in the day SKEWER/1 informed me that he would be unable to meet with us on Tuesday as he was leaving by air on the evening of 11 January for a series of appointments in the States.

2. The meeting with SKEWER/1 was held in my hotel room at 1645 hours on 11 January. I told SKEWER/1 that as he knew, one of KUBARK'S prime information targets in Latin America concerned the activities of Castro's Cuba and that in this connection some of our people had been thinking for some time that it would be most useful in pursuing this requirement to have entree into shipping interests that were active in Caribbean waters, SKEWER/I said he thought this idea excellent. I further stated that these people had heard that SKEWER/l's firm was discussing the possibility of entering into an exclusive Caribbean distributorship contract with Alvin T. Philpotts, Jr., who is associated with the Antilles Materials Company, Ltd. S. A. of Panama and Puerto Rico, and asked him if he had any knowledge of the individual or the negotiations. SKEWER/1 replied that he did not know of either, but that his son would be familiar with both.

3. I asked SKEWER/1 if he would be willing to investigate the situation discreetly without mentioning any interest on KUBARK's part and at the same time consider the commercial feasibility of the venture for AMCO. He agreed.

4. In elaborating on the basic concept, I told SKEWER/1 that if the proper maritime firm were located (that is, one that may be floundering now but has commercial viability potential), we would be interested in placing with the company an individual who possesses the necessary commercial background qualifications and also has the capability of accomplishing certain KUBARK requirements, SKEWER/1 reiterated his conviction that the concept is an excellent one and said he would do all in his power to

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

- 2 -

help KUBARK achieve this objective.

5. I told him that I would appreciate his cooperation in meeting with two of my friends who are more fully versed in these matters. He agreed and set the meeting for Monday, 19 January 1965. SKEWER/1 gave me his unlisted private telephone numier and suggested that I contact him Monday morning, 19 January 1965, to set time and place for the meeting. The number is 842-2120.

E. A. STANULIS

Distribution:
Orig.--C/DO/SA
ADCDO/CO
Gale W. Allen
1--WUBRINY/OPS
1--WUBRINY/D
1--SKEWER/1 201 file
1--SA Chrono

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

1 February 1965

## Case Officer Comment:

The meeting wit.: SKEWER/1 confirmed Mr. Philpotts' report that his relations with the Puerto Rican Cement Company are good. It also revealed the terms of the relationship between the Fuerto Rican Cement Company and AMCO which Mr. Philpotte had not reported in detall to WUBRINY/2. It is obvious that Mr. Philpotts has sold himself to certain officials in the Puerto Rican Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company's top management. The extent to which Mr. Philpotts may have conned other businessmen into extending credit and the amount of such credit is a key factor for in- vestigation by WUBRINY/1 and 12, and Mr. Malia on their forthcoming trip. It is feared that Mr. Philpotts has Incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Philpotts and reorganization of AMCO would be prohibitively expensive.


GALE W. ALLEN
DOCO/SA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

1 February 1965

Case Officer Comment:

The meeting with SKEWER/1 confirmed Mr. Philpotts' report that his relations with the Puerto Rican Cement Company are good. It also revealed the terms of the relationship between the Puerto Rican Cement Company and AMCO which Mr. Philpotts had not reported in detail to HUBRINY/2. It is obvious that Mr. Philpotts has sold himself to certain officials in the Puerto Rican Cement Company who have the confidence of the Company's top management. The extent to which Mr. Philpotts may have conned other businessmen into extending credit and the amount of such credit is a key factor for investigation by WUBRINY/1 and /2, and Mr. Malia on their forthcoming trip. It is feared that Mr. Philpotts has incurred so many debts that the firing of Mr. Philpotts and reorganization of AMCO would be prohibitively expensive.

![signature of Gale W. Allen]

GALE W. ALLEN
DOCO/SA

# SECRET

![Erratum slip image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

14 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:
SUBJECT: Antilles Materials Company, Ltd.

1.  Mr. Ed Stanulis telephoned Mr. Allen at home from San Juan, Puerto Rico, on 11 January 1965. He met with SKEWER/1 as scheduled at 3 F.M. SKEWER/1 was not familiar with any negotiations between the Puerto alcan Cement Company and AICO but agreed to look quietly into the matter. He made a telephone call to PR Cement's Sales Manager before he left for New York. SKEWER/1 said that he had such a heavy schedule on this trip, requiring his presence in New York, Chicago, and Connecticut, that he could not squeeze in a meeting with KUBARK representatives. He would, however, be glad to meet with KUBARK representatives in Puerto Rico on 18 January 1965. This delay would also enable him to investigate thoroughly the status of negotiations with AMCO.

2.  Mr. Stanulis said that he had followed the previously agreed approach to SKEWER/1. He emphasized that KUBARK is interested in AMCO only to the extent that a feasible commercial arrangement can be worked out, so that placement of an officer in AMCO to work / against Cuba would make sense. He indicated that ACO is not doing too well financially and that the question is whether it can be resurrected on a sound commercial basis. Mr. Stanulis informed SKEWER/1 that KUBARK is not interested in taking an equity position in AMCO.

3.  Mr. Stanulis affirmed unequivocally to Mr. Allen his previous assessment of SKEWER/1, namely that SKEWER/1 will do anything to help KUBARK, particularly against Cuba, Mr. Stanulis will write a report upon arrival in Washington on or about 13 January 1965.

Distribution
Orig. Ops file
- Subj. file
  • SKEWER/1 201
- chrono

GALE W. ALLEN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

MEMORANDUM FOR: DOCO/SA

ATTENTION: Gale W. Allen

FROM: Deputy Director of Security (Investi-
gations and Operational Support)

SUBJECT: FERRE, Antonio Luis
#450 945

1. Reference is made to your memorandum dated 7 January 1964 which requested a Provisional Covert Security Approval to permit Subject, President, Puerto Rican Cement Company, to be made witting of Agency interest in WUBRINY/D in the event his father, a cleared Agency contact, desires to discuss with Subject this interest.

2. In accordance with the provisions set forth in Clandestine Services Instruction No. 10-5 and Clandestine Services Instruction - Field No. 10-5, a Provisional Covert Security Approval is granted for the use of the Subject as described in your request as set forth in paragraph 1, above. This confirms a verbal PCSA granted 5 January 1965.

3. Subjects of Provisional Covert Security Approvals are not to represent themselves as, nor are they to be represented as, employees of CIA.

4. Your attention is called to the fact that a Provisional Covert Security Approval does not constitute complete compliance with the provisions of CIA Regulation 10-3. Therefore, if you should desire at a later date to change the status or use of this individual, a request for approval to cover any proposed change should be submitted to this office.

5. This approval becomes invalid in the event action is not taken within 90 days of the date of this memorandum.

FOR THE DIRECTOR OF SECURITY:

R.S. Sparlini
for Victor R. White

S-E-C-R-E-T
(When Filled In)

GROUP 1
Excluded from Auto-
matic downgrading and
declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry 1 copy of the form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APIMOPRIATE BLANK

TO:
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

X CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:
(True name) Antonio Luis Ferre

DATE: 7 January 1964

FROM: DOCO/SA

PROJECT: LUBRINY

CRYPTONTH, PSEUDONYM, ARA OR ALIASES
CI/DA FILE NO.

BI 201 FILE NO.
SO FILE NO. 450945

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

☑ PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL COVERT. NAME CHECK

COVERT BELUNITY APPROVAL SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

CONTRACY TYPE A CONTRACT TYPE B

8. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

United States-Puerto Rico

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

Desire PCSA in the event his father, a cleared KUBARK contact, 201-205712,
SO file number 215627, desires to discuss with him KUBARK interest in
WUBRINY/D. Subject is President, Puerto Rican Cement Company, born 1934
Ponce, Puerto Rico, U.S. citizen. Will seek additional biographic
information.

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?

C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?

D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTERESTS
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

|     | YES | NO  |     |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     | X   |     |
|     |     | X   |     |
|     |     | X   |     |
|     |     | X   |     |
|     | X   |     |     |


PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO 1. ON EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED PRO II WILL BE FOR ARDED

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHES, NOI


6. RI TRACES

NO RECORD X WILL FORWARD NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATGAY ATTACHLO

7. DIVISION TRACES

NO RECORDO WILL FORWARD MON-DENDGATORY DEROGATONY ATTACHED

8. FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD WILL FORWARD

NO DENOG STORY INFO. DEHOGATORY ATTACHED

LIST DO ES CHECKED SIGNIFICANT IFONIO ATTACHED

NOT INITIATED (Suplanation)

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE 07 BRANCH CHITF
Gale W. Allan, DOCO/SA 11-61961 Norman G. SEC, C/DOCS/SA
FORM 772

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# 13 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Antilles Materials Company, Ltd.

1. Messrs. Allen and Carter met on 8 January 1965 with Mr. Edward Stanulis, former COS San Juan, to discuss an approach to SKEWER/1 for information on subject company. It was agreed that Mr. Stanulis would go to Puerto Rico on 9 January and contact SKEWER/1 on the 10th. Hopefully SKEWER/1 could obtain information on negotiations between Puerto Rican Cement Company and AMCO in time for a meeting with Messrs Stanulis, Allen, and Carter on 12 January. Messrs. Allen and Carter would plan to arrive in San Juan at 10:50 P.M. on 11 January.

2. Mr. Stanulis would apprice SKEWER/1 of KUBARK's interest in placing a KUBARK officer in a small shipping and trading company operating in the Caribbean area in order to monitor Cuban activities. SKEWER/1 would be cautioned to keep this knowledge confidential. In this connection, Mr. Stanulis said that SKEWER/1 had proved to be absolutely reliable from the security point of view. Mr. Stanulis would advise SKEWER/1 that KUBARK is looking at AMCO which is negotiating with the Puerto Rican Cement Company to be its cement distributor in the Caribbean area. SKEWER/I would be asked to confirm any negotiations and the terms involved. His answers would be given in the cubsequent meeting with Mesors. Stanulis, Allen, and Carter. Further discussion with SKEWER/1 would be conditioned on hic answers. In any case KUBARK representatives would ascertain his views on the validity of AMCO's commercial concept and on any possibility for comercial collaboration betweon PR Cement and AMCO.

3. Mr. Stanulis ca 10 January 1965 telephone. Mr. Allen at home to report that he has a meeting scheduled with SKEWER/1 at 3 P.M. on 11 January. SKEWER/1 is leaving the night of 11 January for New York where he will remain through part of 15 January. Mr. Stanulis will try to get a flight out of Puerto Rico for New York, so that a meeting may be arrange for Mooors. Soulis, Allen, and Carter with SKEWER/1 in New York. Mr. Staalis will call Mr. Allen after his meeting with SKEWER/1. Mr. Stanulis is staying at the Hotel Da Vinci, Room 81.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SKEWER/1 will be staying in New York at the Hotel Savoy Plaza. Mr. Allen imediately telephoned Mr. Carter, 941-2802, and advised him of the change in plans.

![signature of Gale W. Allen]
Gale W. Allen
DOCO/SA

DOCO/SA:GWA:jev (13 Jan. 1965)

Distribution:
* 0 - Subject
* 1 - WUBRINY Ops
* 1 - SA Chrono
* 1 - SKEWER/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handcarry a copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE CLANE

Subject

DATE
5 January 1935

TO:
C/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION
FROM:
DOCO/SA

CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY
CHIEF, PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:
(True nane) Luis Albert Ferre

PROJECT

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM. AKA OR ALIASES
CI/DA FILE NO.
C-32943

81 201 FILE NO.
201-2057-2
1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

X PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL 8 Dec. 1954
COVERT NAME CHECK

X COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
SPECIAL INSLOY (30 field investigation)
CONTRACT TYPE A
CONTRACT TYPE B

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE
   United States - Puerto Rico

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE
   The Puerto Rican Cement Company is interested in having WUBRINY D as its overt distributor in the Caribbean area. Desire co brief Subject on KUBARK objectives in WUBRINY D and propose long term commercial. collaboration of mutual advantage. One of the KUBARK officers doing the briefing will be the new manager of WUBRINY D and continuing contact with Subject. Previously investigated

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                                                                         | YES | NO  |
| ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-: | :-: |
| A. U.3. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                                                          |     |     |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?                                                                      |     |     |
| C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?                                                                 |     |     |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?                                                                             |     |     |
| E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE. IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.                                               |     |     |
| F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.                                  |     |     |
| G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUOJECT WITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST? IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY |     |     |


5. PRQ AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO. 1.'OR EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PHO II WILL BE FORWARDED

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED
GREEN LIST ATTACKED, NOI 100951

.. RI TRACES

NO RECORD
WILL FORWARD
NON-DEAC STORY
CERGGATORY ATTACHED

7. DIVISION TRACES

NO RECORD
WILL PORWARD
NON DEROGATORY
DEAOGATOSY ATTACHED

8. FIELD TRACES

NO RECOND
WILL FONWAND

NO DENOGATORY INFO.
DEROGATORY ATTACHED.

LIST SOURCES CHECKED
IGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED

NOT INITIATED (Kuplanation)

SIGNATURE OF CABR OFFICEN
EXTENSION
SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIKY
Gala W. Allen, DOCO/SA
11-61951 Norman G. Swift, C/DOCO/SA
FORM
...772
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

5 January 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Luis Albert Ferro (201-205712)

1. WH/2/Dominican Republic holds Subject's file which has been loaned to DO/SA. Mr. Allen on 5 January 1965 telephoned the DR Desk Officer, Mr. David McGrath, and explained that DO/SA would like to make Subject witting of KUBARK interest in UBRINY D. Mr. McGrath said that the Desk is not now using Subject and that it has no objection to DO/SA briefing Subject. He asked that a memorandum covering the contact be prepared for inclusion in the Subject's file.

2. Mr. Allen on 5 January 1965 informed DO/Security that DO/SA desires to make Subject witting of KUBARK interest in WUBRINY D. A PCSA had previously been granted on 8 December 1964 with the understanding that a CSA can be quickly obtained because of the existing O/A on him. DO/Security said that necessary action for a CSA would be undertaken at once and that he foresees no problem.

Gale W. Allen
Gale W. Allen

GWA: jev

Distribution:

*   Subject file
*   WUBRINY Opa
*   WUBRINY D
*   SA Chrono

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

9 December 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECOND

SUBJECT: Luis Albert FERRE

DO/Security informed Mr. Allen on 8 December 1964 that a PCSA has been granted on Subject. Subject's Office of Security file number is 215627. DO/Security further advised that if Subject has to be made witting of Agency interest in WUBRINY D, then a CSA can be quickly obtained because an OA was previously issued on Subject.

![signature of Gale W. Allen] Gale W. Allen

GWA/go

Distribution:
- Subj file
  1 - WUB ops
  1 - SA chrono

![SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SENDER WILL CHECK CLAS ICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL |X| SECRET

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

## OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS       | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | DO/SA, Mr. Gale ALLEN  |      |          |
| 2   | Rim 532-F 1750 PA AVE. |      |          |
| 3   |                        |      |          |
| 4   |                        |      |          |
| 5   |                        |      |          |
| 6   |                        |      |          |

| ACTION                   | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |           |
| ------------------------ | ------------ | -------------- | --------- |
| APPROVAL                 | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |           |
| COMMENT                  | FILE         | RETURN         |           |
| CONCURRENCE              | X            | INFORMATION    | SIGNATURE |
| X PER your phone request |              |                |           |

Remarks:

Mr. ALLEN: Subject has two sons per Security's record:

Antonie Luis F..... born 1934, Ponce
Rosario J. F...... born 1938, Ponce

Pls let me know if I should conduct traces.

Thank you--

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO.  | DATE       |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------- |
| Anna PANOR, DO/HS 5 E 46 HQS Bldg. | 17 Dec. 64 |

| UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL | X   | SECRET |
| ------------ | ------------ | --- | ------ |

237 Use previous editions

* U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1961 0-567882 (40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

26 August 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: A/DD/CA

ATTENTION: Mr. Howard Hunt

SUBJECT: Trace reply - Luis FERRE

REFERENCE: A/DC/CA Memorandum dated 7 August 1964

1. Traces have been completed on:

Luis Alberto FERRE Aguayo, 201-205712

AKA: Luis A. FERREK, Luis Albert FERRE

DOB: 17 February 1904, Ponce, Puerto Rico

CIT: U.S.A., formerly, Puerto Rico

OCC: Senator and Industrialist

RES: Reina Mora Street, No. 2, Ponce, Puerto Rico

Subject, a wealthy member of the Puerto Rican Legislature, heads the Republican (Statehood) Party, and is a stockholder in El Tiempo, Inc., located at 76 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y. The Chief, DD Division desires background information on Subject.

2. RID Files, the Office of Security, CI/DA, and WH/2/DB had a record of Subject. The 201 file is held by WH/2/DB on permanent charge. CI/OA maintains a file on Subject which was reviewed and the results are forwarded herewith, in a separate envelope, as Attachment No. 1. Included in Attachment 1. is operational and investigative information from the Office of Security and the 201 file. Attachment No. 2 is a biographic data sheet forwarded by the Office of Security.

3. The following biographic information is from the 201 files:

Physical Description: 5 ft., 7¾ inches tall; weight - 155; slender build; light complexion with brown hair and eyes; oval-shaped face with a scar on the left cheek bone.

Education: Public schools, Ponce, Puerto Rico; the Morristown School, Morristown, New Jersey; Massachusetts Institute of Technology, B.S. and M.S. Degrees.

Languages: English, Spanish, and French.

Family Background: Married to Lorencita (nee Ramirez de Arellano) FERRE, born 9 July 1905, San German, Puerto Rico and she is a U. S. citizen. There are two children who also are

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

E. S. citiname. Subject has four brothers and one sister (see Attachment 2). He is Vice President of the Ferre Industries, which comprise the following group:

Ponce Cement Corporation, Ponce, P. R.
Puerto Rico Iron Works, Ponce, P. R.
Puerto Rico Glass Corporation, San Juan, P. R.
Puerto Rico Clay Corporation, San Juan, P. R.
Fabrica Nacional Vidrio, Haiquetia, Venezuela
Cementos Nacionales, Santiago de Cuba (present status unknown)
Ponce Products, Incorporated, Miami, Florida

Subject is the Director of the Bank of Ponce. Capital holdings of Ferre Industries had been estimated at over $1,000,000.00 in 1960 and Subject's personal earnings at approximately $50,000.00 per year. Subject has written articles on: "Industrial Democracy," "American Citizenship," "Cement Plants," and "Sugar Mills." He is a member of the Lions Club and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

Anna Panor
DO/HS

Attachments:

1. Envelope
2. Bio Data Sheet (Not att'd/DO/HS Chrono copy is a thermofax and will not reproduce, sorry)

Distribution:

Orig. w/atte. - A/DO/CA
/1. - C/DO/H
/1. - DO/ES Chrono.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Attachment to DO/HS Memorandum
dated 26 August 1964

SECRET

SECRET

Attachment No. 1 to
DO/HS Memorandum dated
26 August 1964

Operational and Cl-- Information

1. Subject was mentioned in two KAPOK Dispatches by the Chief of Station, San Juan, Puerto Rico, as a possible candidate through whom leads to persons in the Dominican Republic could be developed and targeted against the intelligence service and the ruling circles there. In HPSA-1223 and HPSA-941, both dated 11 September 1956, Subject is mentioned as a good person for the beginning of covert operations in the Dominican Republic because he was well known and considered discreet by those who knew him. Because of his businesses in the U.S. and the Caribbean area, Subject had many persons working for him over a period of years who owed him some allegiance. Subject's companies did much business in the Dominican Republic. SKEDADILE, the Station's contact, was instructed to approach him indirectly through a cut-out who was Angel FONSECA Jiminez, a personal friend of SKEDADILE, a member of the Puerto Rican legislature, a senior member of the Republican (Statehood) Party, and very close to Subject.

2. Information in Subject's PRQ II revealed that he was assigned the cryptonym SKEVER/1. The case officer was introduced to Subject by one Francisco A. LOPEZ Dominguez, the U.S. Collector of Customs-in-Charge in Puerto Rico on a strictly social basis in March 1950 (this was to be Subject's cover, and there was no monetary remuneration). Since Subject was considered a loyal U.S. citizen, he was made witting of KUBARK's interest in persons in the Dominican Republic who might lead to the target. He accepted to assist KUBARK in this endeavor enthusiastically. Although it was known that Subject once served as an honorary Vice Consul for Sweden, a common practice for prominent businessmen in Latin America, he was not known to have any connections with a foreign intelligence service. His value to KUBARK lay in his personal knowledge of persons and facts in the Dominican Republic, particularly individuals who travelled there for legal reasons, as well as his social and political status. The case officer described Subject as "intelligent," "well educated," and "a political leader whose real strength is in his being as a enlightened capitalist." Because he was (and is) so prominent, and could not withstand too much weakening of his position, he should not be used "directly" in any operation (in the opinion of the case officer who wrote the PRQ evaluation).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

Attachment No. 1 to
DO/HS Memorandum csted
26 August 1964

3. According to information in C-82943 (CI/OA File), VE/3/DRAR requested a POA on 4 May 1960 for permission to allow the use of Subject to "provide useful information on, er through witting or unwitting employees, courier access to the Dominican Republic." Msults of Green List No. 100351 dated 4 May 1960 were "no pertinent identifiable information" on 17 May 1960, and a field trace reply of that date was "ne derogatory traces." The POA was granted 31 May 1960 and the OA on 11 September 1960. These clearances were car celled on 21 and 24 March 1961, respectively, in notices to CI/OA by VH/3/DRAB, Reasons for these cancellations were not given. On 24 Agust 1961, WE/4/Cuba_requested_a statement of the OA, for use as an informant. The request was granted by CI/OA on 11 September 1961.

4. An investigation report by the Office of Security in 1960 was not unfavorable. It did make reference to infor mation in an FBI report dated 19 May 1960, in Washington, D.C., which also appeared in the Subject's 201 file. This report contained the following information:

a) In 1951, as leader of the Statehood Party, Subject attached compulsory military service for Puerto Rico, calling it taxation without representation. In 1952, however, he was one of the Statehood Party leaders who made public statements of their pride in their U.S. citizenship, their desire to live permanently under the U.S. flag, and their recom mendation that pardon and clemency be granted in meritorious cases of persons accused in connection with the nationalist revolt in 1950.

b) In 1952, Subject reportedly offered a job to Elizer Curet Cuevas, a Communist Party member in Puerto Rico (source not specified):

c) The FBI received information (source not specified) in 1952 and 1953 that Subject received mail from one Juan Antonio Corretjer, a former member of the Puerto Rican Nationalist Party.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

Attachment No. 1 to
DQ/H8 Memorandum dated
26 August 1964

d) At the request of the Justice Department, the FBI conducted an inquiry, under the Anti-trust Laws of the U.S., into the cement industry in San Juan, Puerto Rico during December 1958. An Industrialist and financier, Subject reportedly controlled the cement industry in Puerto Rico. The Antitrust Division Files of the Department of Justice contain the results of the inquiry.

5. The Chief of Station, San Juan, Puerto Rico, according to HP64-1969 dated 4 January 1964, met with Subject in Ponce on 26 December 1963. At this time, Subject told the Chief of Station that he was considering the construction of two sizable plants (cement and glass) in the Dominican Republic "as a means of augmenting official assistance through private enterprise." Subject felt that it was "imperative for all free nations of the Hemisphere to do all in their power to help the Dominican Republic become a true Democracy and deny it to the Communists. In this vital task, private capital must also participate actively." This is the conviction that prompted Subject to consider building the plants.

According to a memorandum to CI/OA dated 27 May 1960, from WH/3/DRAM, the inquiry had no effect on its proposed operational use.

6. One document in the 201, UPGA-12398 dated 7 November 1963, reveals that Subject was a member of a group of Latin Americans who notionally subsidized AKRROLL (probably an asset of WH/SA). JUAN 0404 (IN 33997), 7 December 1961, one of a number of cables in Subject's 201 file, indicates that Subject took intense interest in Cuban affairs and was more than willing to obtain information on Cuban elements.

7. According to a document in Subject's 201, the Central Cover Staff had a record, Page 2128 dated 11 May 1960 in their file #3-3 in connection with WH/3/DRAM's POA/CA, but had no active or direct interest in Subject.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

PRIOR TO FILING

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID/FI.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/Am

PROPER FILE NO.

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

7

COMMENTS

| TO           | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS  |
| ------------ | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------- |
| 1. C/WH/6    |          | 14 JAN 1964   |                |                     |
| 2.           |          |               |                |                     |
| 3. C/WH/6/PP |          |               |                | On chrono detached  |
| 4. CTRL      |          |               |                |                     |
| 5. BI        |          |               |                | a) any intel value? |
| 6.           |          |               |                |                     |
| 7.           |          |               |                |                     |
| 8.           |          |               |                |                     |
| 9.           |          |               |                |                     |
| 10.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 11.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 12.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 13.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 14.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 15.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 16.          |          |               |                |                     |
| 17. RID/FI   |          |               |                |                     |

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-205712

TRACE REQUEST

ABSTRACT INDEX

DOCUMENT DATE

4 Jan 64

DOCUMENT NUMBER
HPSA 01969

DAYS MICROFILMED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

FROM: Chief of Station, Santo Domingo

SUBJECT: Meeting with SKEWER-1

Action: Information

1. COS met with SKEWER-1 in Ponce, P. R. on 26 December 1963.

2. During general conversation, SKEWER-1 said he was considering the construction of two sizeable plants (cement and glass) in the Dominican Republic as a means of augmenting official assistance through private enterprise and asked COS's opinion of the venture. COS responded that this was personal decision for SKEWER-1 to make.

3. SKEWER-1 said he felt that it was imperative for all free nations of the Hemisphere to do all in their power to help the Dominican Republic become a true democracy and to deny it to the Communists. In this vital task, he added, private capital must also participate actively. This personal conviction, he said, is what has prompted him to consider building the cement and glass plants.

3. SKEWER-1 said that he believed the present GODR was democratically-oriented and would do a good job in the interval between the Junta reign and elections for a successor government. He also praised the selection or Donald REID Cabral to succeed DE LOS SANTOS.

![signature of Melvin K. Lamiaux]

Melvin K. LAMIAUX

Distribution:

2- Chief, WHD

1 - COS, Santo Domingo

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HPSA-1969

CLASSIFICATION: S-E-C-R-E-T

201-205712

DATE: 4 January 1964


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: JACQUES PRINDIVILLE spja
UNIT: WH/4/DRAH
EXT: 2065
DATE: 19 SEPTEMBER 1961 1716
TO: SAN JUAN
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: BELL 10
INFO: WH 5, S/C 2

SECRET

101-205712

ROUTING

1
2
3

4
5
6

19 SEP 61 22 46x

DEFERRED

SIO CEN

X ROUTINE
OUT98467

TO: JUAN INFO
CITE DIR 12786
REF: DIR 12785 (αυτOUT98466)

IDEN x LUTS ALBERT FERRE.

END OF MESSAGE

"Cable Secretariat please supply ref.

![Signature of R.W. Herbert]
R.W. Herbert
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICER

![Signature of J. A. Davis]
A. K. DAVIS
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

Copy No.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

ORIG : JACQUES PRIMDIVILLEsp
UNIT : WH/4/DR&H
EXT : 2065
DATE: 19 SEPTEMBER 1961 1715

TO : SAN JUAN

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF. BELL 10
INFO : WH 5, S/C 2

TO JUAN INFO CITE DIR 12785

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

OA GRANTED IDEN. ASSIONED CRYPTO SKER-1.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO JMZIP CABLES.*

201-205 7.12

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

9 SEP 61 22 45z

SIG CEN
DEFERRED

ROUTINE OUT98466

![signature of R. W. Herbert] R. W. Herbert
![signature of J. C. KING] J. C. KING, O
RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET
(When Filled In)

No. C-82943

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/4 - A. Amori

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of Luis Albert FERRE,
for the purpose specified in your request

dated: 12 Aug 1961

OA granted for use of Subject as set forth in PRQ Part II.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in OSI 10-5 and FR 10-215.

Jones Canoe, Jr.

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 11 Sept 1961

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

SECRET

FORM NO. 124 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
1 JUN 55


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

MEMORANDUM TO: CI/CA

SECRET

Attention: Mr. Drew Kohler

FROM : WE/A/FI-OI

SUBJECT : G-82493

1. Attached for your retention is a complted copy of the FRQ Part II on Subject case. It is requested that a full operational Approval be processed on the Subject.

2. Subject has not yet been assigned a cryptonym. Your office will be advised immediately of any further action on this matter.

Joseph S. Piccolo
WE/A/FI/Haiti-PR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, San Juan

FROM: Chief, Lestern Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: SKEWER-1 - Clarification of Operational Status

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

ACTION: As appropriate, per paragraphs two and three.

REF: HPSA-1955 (RYBAT) (27 September 1963)

1.  A full Operational Approval was issued on 11 September 1961 for use of SKEWER-1 as set forth in the FRQ Part II submitted to lHead-quarters with JU-232 (18) July 1961). Notification of issuance of the Of was given the Station in DIR 12785 and DIR 12786.

2.  If the Station judges that the above-cited PRQ Part II no longer obtains as to Subject's actual current operational status and use (Headquarters' file on Subject shows that it does not: e.g.. his funding of a Station JMWAVE' operation), an up-to-date PRQ Part II should be submitted in order to amend the OA issued in September 1961.

3.  The Station should be guided by the provisions of CSI-F-50-17 with respect to keeping Headquarters informed of current operational contact with and use of Subject.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:

2- COS, San Juan

---

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HPSW-1407

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 6 NOV 1963
31 October 1963
HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-205712

OFFICE: WH/6/DR:PR
ORIGINATING: C. R. LAMOALE
EXT. 4524

OFFICE SYMBOL: C/MI/6/DPR
COORDINATING: W. TRENTA

OFFICE SYMBOL: O/WIW
DATE: 1 Nov 63
RELEASING: C. KING

DISPATCH

1- CS (002-205712)
ROUTE Chro

RID/A

SD/S

WH/6/PR

1-63 SK PREVIOUS EDITION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

578

DATE 2 AUG 61

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
**SECRET**

ROUTING
1
2
3

TO DIRECTOR

FROM SAN JUAN

ACTION BELL 10

INFO COP, ADDP/A, CA 2, CA/EAG, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/INT 2, IOD 4, WH 5, S/C 2

4
5
6

AUG.3 01062 61

ROUTINE

IN 47500.

TDCS-3/482,637

PRITY DIR INFO TRUJ CITE JUAN 0240

DYVOUR 4

MEETING 1 AUG WITH LUIS FERRE PRODUCED FOLL:

A. FERRE HAD CONVERSATION 25 JULY WITH FRANK CHAVEZ AFL-CIO LEADER IN PUERTO RICO. CHAVEZ PROPOSED FERRE GO DOM REP ACT AS CATALYST BETWEEN CONFLICTING FORCES AND USHER IN DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT ARGUED THAT MAN FERRE'S STATURE COULD SERVE IN PLACE OAS COMMISSION. FERRE FAVORABLY INCLINED IN PRINCIPLE. FERRE IN CONTACT CARLOS CHARDON, WELL KNOWN PUERTO RICAN AGRONOMIST WHO NOW IN DOMREP AT INVITATION BALAGUER CONNECTION AGRARIAN REFORMS. CHARDON FAVORS IDEA FERRE MEDIATION. (COMMENT: FERRE REQUESTED NOTHING; YAUGER VOLUNTERRED NOTHING. FOR HQS INFO YAUGER EXPECTS TALK NEXT WITH: FERRE & AUG).

B. CHAVEZ HAD JUST RETURNED FROM SEEING ARTURO ESPIALLAT IN CANADA. AS LONG TIME FRIEND ESPIALLAT, CHAVEZ CLAIMS CREDIT FOR GETTING RAMFIS TRUJILLO RELEASE ESPAILLAT. CHAVEZ ALSO FRIENDLY WITH RAMFIS WHO, ACCORDING CHAVEZ FAVORS DEMOCRATIZATION DOMREP WANTS LEAVE COUNTRY, LIQUIDATING FAMILY ASSETS AT TEN CENTS ON THE DOLLAR. ASSETS IN DOMREP ESTIMATED AT 800 MILLION DOLLARS. FERRE COMMENTED THAT IN LONG RUN IT WOULD BE CHEAPER FOR DOMINICANS

**SECRET**

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE JUAN 0240
SECRET 7500 PAGE 2

RID THEMSELVES TRUJILLOS BY PAYING, SAY, FIVE CENTS ON DOLLAR RATHER
THAN SUFFER CONSEQUENCES CIVIL WAR. CHAVEZ SAYS HECTOR TRUJILLO
ALSO WANTS OUT BUT PETAN WANTS CONTINUE DYNASTY. CHAVEZ SAYS
RAMFIS HAS SOLID BACKING AIR FORCE WHICH IS REAL STRENGTH ARMED
FORCES.

C. FERRE HAD BEEN APPROACHED BY OSVALDO T GRIMALDI AND JOSE
ANTONIO SALCEDO AS LEADERS IN PUERTO RICO OF PRD WHO ASKED MONEY
FOR MEDICINES CLOTHING ETC. FERRE STALLED BUT IS INCLINED GIVE
SOMETHING TO KEEP ON GOOD SIDE ANY ANTI COMMUNIST GROUP.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE 18 PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

1.  This form must be filled in by the case officer or appropriate authority on the basis of the best available in- formation. It is *not* to be shown to the subject.
2.  Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval unless requester furnishes answers to all questions in PRQ parts I and II. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the ap- plicable provisions of FR 10-215, paragraphs 6a, 8, 12b and 12d. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as not forth in FR 10-215.
3.  Three (3) completed copies of PRQ part I (including copy in subject's handwriting, if possible) and two (2) com- pleted copies of this form must be sent to headquarters as soon as possible.
4.  Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRQ format in two (2) copies.
5.  Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." If additional space required for item, use reverse side of page keyed to appropriate item number.

1. CRYPTONYM

2. PSEUDONYM

# SKEWER/1

SECTION I
CONTACT AND DEVELOPMENT

1. INDICATE HOW, WHEN, WHERE, WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

Case Officer first met Subject through the aid of Francisco A. LOPEZ Dominguez who, as U.S. Colector of Customs in charge, is witting of CO's true status. LOPEZ arranged a lunch for three at the Zipperlie Restaurant. There were two purposes: to meet Subject as part of SKIPPER's general requirement to know outstanding figures, and to pave the way for contact in accordance with the POA that already had been requested. The initial meeting was in March 1960; the POA was received on 24 June 1960 in JW-45.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SECURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR HANDLING. IF SO, INDICATE TO WHOM..

Yes - to any senior officer (Subject is 57 years old)

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR WHOM HE KNOWS OR HAS KNOWN, GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE BEEN KNOWN.

None

FORM NO.
1 NOV 58 1050a REPLACES FORM 51-958
WHICH MAY BE USED.

SECRET

(4-60)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# SECRET

## SECTION II
### MOTIVATION AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence. Do not use stock comment such as "anti-communist.")

Subject is a genuine loyal American citizen. His citizenship, his schooling (Morristown School, Morristown, New Jersey; Massachusetts Institute of Technology), his position as head of the large industrial complex which operates both in Puerto Rico and in the continental United States, and his outstanding political status combine to motivate him to support the United States.

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL. IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)

No control.other than the suasion of patriotism.

## SECTION III
### COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS.

Social cover. Case Officer's cover makes acquaintanceship entirely plausible.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

His business and social positions.

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THINKS HE (Will work) (la working).

Witting.

## SECTION IV
### INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDIC..TE THE EXTENT SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

No known such connection.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, relatives, friends) WHO KNOW OF BURJECT'S PRESENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES,

F. A. LOPEZ Dominguez (see Section Il) to the extent only of having effected the introduction.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD IN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS.

None

## SECTION V
### COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FOREION POWER BUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LINKLY TO COBELANGRATE WITH BECAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGI OR PAST AGGOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

Such collaboration is in the realm of theoretical possibility. Only known connection with a foreign government is that he has served asan honorary vion consul for Sweden, a common practice of Latin American businesв тел.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECTION VI

SECRET

OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED.

No previous use known.

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

From his business and social positions. That is, his normal business and social contacts supply him with his information.

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.

Subject is witting.

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

Subject's value lies in his personal knowledge of persons and facts in the target country, and his access to persons having legal reasons to travel to that country. Also, through him access can be had to local persons who may be in a position to be useful - wittingly or unwittingly.

5. DETAIL SULJECT'S PROPOSED PPPM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

See Para 4 immediately above.

SECTION VII

PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE:

A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYONE AGENCY:

NA

SECTION VIII

AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT, I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION, IF ANY; AGENCY PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

So far as is known, the Case Officer is the only Agency person known to Subject. The relationship is social - on a witting basis. No remuneration is involved.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# SECRET

SECTION IX
QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

1. INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

Although Subject is an intelligent, well-educated person, he should not be used directly in operations. His value is as described in Section VII. Furthermore, his political position prohibits involvement in operations.

SECTION X
COMMITMENTS

1. IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT. IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD, SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

NA

2. EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES. OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)

NA

SECTION XI
CE AND SECURITY

1. INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

---

2. INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

As an outstanding public figure, knowledge about Subject is general and all "Who's Who" write-ups contain long articles about him.

3. INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL OR OPERATIONAL AP- 4. DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED
   PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

POA

5. EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

In addition to Section II 1, although a leader in politics, Subject's real strength is in his being an enlightened capitalist. One Who's Who description says "pioneer in the job of humanizing industry". Is a Catholic lay leader. Has held various public service positions, e.g., Lions Club, Chamber of Commerce, Council of the Boy Scouts, honorary secretary of MIT; philanthropist; etc.

6. EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

None known

SECTION XII
SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1. USE OF LIQUOR, DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.

With Case Officer, Subject has been most sparing in use of liquors as a political public figure any personal weaknesses would have been well aired.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

SECTION XIII
1. INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC. ETC.

Plays the piano well.

SECTION XIV
GENERAL
1. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

Subject's English is excellent but he probably would be noted as having been raised other than in the continental United States. Information is lacking as to his foreign language abilities, and such information has not been sought in view of the non-operational nature of his connection with the Agency.

2. INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRO PARTS I AND 11 WAS OBTAINED BY RESFARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

Except for such factual data as place of schooling, Subject is such a prominent public figure that general information about him is public knowledge.

3. IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also see para. 436. supra)

NA

SECTION XV
EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS
1. GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS, S/W WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE: WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL MAKING CONTACT USE?

If contact with Subject were to be made other than through the Case Officer, the newly-contacting Officer should exhibit documentary evidence of his Agency-connection and a reasonable explanation of why the introduction is not made by the Case Officer.

SECTION XVI
MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS
See Section IX 1.

DATE

16 July 1961

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions. If question is not applicable, write "NA"
3. Attach blank pages, if additional space is needed.

SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (First) (Middle) (Last) (Nee)
   Luaft Pire

2. NAME IN NATIVE LANGUAGE OR SCRIPT

3. NAME AT BIRTH (If different then Item 1.)

4. ALIASES, NICKNAMES, TELECODES, LEGAL CHANGE IN NAME (State time, reason for and place of use)

5. DATE OF BIRTH
   17 February 1904

6. PLACE OF BIRTH
   Fonce, uerto Rico

7. PERSONAL HABITS (Liquor, drugs, gambling, paramours)

Very well-known in community; of high moral character.

8. COURT RECORD (Court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquitals)

None


9. DESCRIPTION (Use American standards of measurements, if possible)

|     | Sex | ag. APPARENT AGE | ed. HEIGHT | af. WEIGHT | gg. COMPLEXION | gh. PACE (Shape) |
| --- | --- | ---------------- | ---------- | ---------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
|     | M   | 56               | 5'7"       | 155        | light          | Ovel             |

| gi. COLOR OF HAIR | gl. COLOR OF EYES | gl. TEETH | Ok. BUILD | Ol. POSTURE |
| ----------------- | ----------------- | --------- | --------- | ----------- |
| Brown             | Brown             | Good      | slender   | Erect       |


gr. SCARS AND MARKS OR OTHER DISTINGUISHING FEATURES
Scar on laf. cheek bone

sr. GENERAL APPEARANCE

10. PROMINENT FEATURES

OP. OTHER IDENTIFYING FEATURES


ATTACH SAMPLES OF SIGNATURE AND HANDWRITING; ALSO DATED PHOTOGRAPH AND FINGERPRINTS, IF OBTAINABLE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECTION 11

CITIZENSHIP

1. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP 2. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH AND ANY SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS (If different than Item 1.)

3. PRESENT. RESIDENCE (Indicate as owner, tenant or sub-tenant)

4. PERMANENT ADDRESS (If different than Itom 3.)

5. IF U.S. NATURALIZED CITIZEN, GIVE NAMF. DATE, CITY AND NUMBER OF CERTIFICATE GRANTED

6. TRAVEL OUTSIDE COUNTRY OF PRESENT RESIDENCE (Countries, dates and purposes)

Durvos, Venezuela, Caba. usiacau and travel,

SECTION 111

OCCUPATIONAL AND FINANCIAL DATA

1. PRESENT OCCUPATION 2. TITLE

Ferre arabctrics.. Vice-Prasident

4. FINANCIAL STATUS (Barnings, bank deposits, securities and property) 3. SALARY (Per annum)

Or 25,000

SECTION IV

ORGANIZATIONAL AFFILIATIONS

1. MEMBERSHIP IN RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS

hatan Catholic

2. PRESENT AND PAST MEMBERSHIP IN PROFESSIONAL AND SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONSI POLITICAL AFFILIATIONS

Lions Club
American Society of Mechanical Engineer's
Neaber of Republican Statelomi) Forty

SECTION V

EDUCATIONAL DATA

1. SCHOOLS

| NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL   | NAME OF COURSE | DATES ATTENDED | DEGREE RECEIVED |           |
| ----------------------------- | -------------- | -------------- | --------------- | --------- |
|                               |                | FROM           | TO              |           |
| Ponce Public Schools          |                |                |                 |           |
| Morristown School, New daresy |                |                |                 |           |
| Techmology, Socton, Mass.     |                |                |                 | B.Σ., M.S |
|                               |                |                |                 |           |
|                               |                |                |                 |           |

2. LANGUAGES AND DIALECTS

| LANGUAGE                                                                  | COMPETENCE |       |       |            |     |     |     |     |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------- | ----- | ----- | ---------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| (List below each language in which you possess any depres of competence.) |            |       |       |            |     |     |     |     |
|                                                                           | READ       | WRITE | SPEAK | UNDERSTAND |     |     |     |     |
|                                                                           | YES        | NO    | YES   | NO         | YES | NO  | YES | NO  |
| Spanish                                                                   | X          |       | 人     |            | X   |     | X   |     |
| Con                                                                       |            |       |       |            |     |     |     |     |
| reml                                                                      |            |       |       |            |     |     |     |     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECTION VI SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS AND INTERESTS

1. INDICATE ANY WRITING. GIVE DETAILS INCLUDING TITLES OF BOOKS OR ARTICLES, ALSO NAMES OF PUBLISHERS AND PUBLICA- TION DATES.

Articles ons Industrial emperaoy
American Citiceship
Comment 21 ante
Supar Hills

2. SPECIAL SKILLS. ABILITIES, HOBBIES SUCH AS RADIO, PHOTOGRAPHY, ETC.

Piano playings fencing.

# SECTION VII

| COUNTRY | DATES FROM TO | MILITARY SERVICE UNIT | RANK | DUTY |
| ------- | ------------- | --------------------- | ---- | ---- |
| Unknown |               |                       |      |      |

*IDENTIFYING COUNTRY. INDICATE WHERE SERVICE PERFORMED, DECORATIONS, WHEN AND WHY DISCHARGED. GIVE DETAILS IF WAN PRISONER.

# SECTION VIII EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: INDICATE CHRONOLOGICAL HISTORY OF EMPLOYMENT LISTING LAST POSITION FIRST. INCLUDE ANY COVERNMENT DIPLOYNDIT.

| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-TO) | 2. EMPLOYER               | 3. ADDRESS            |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------- | --------------------- |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK              | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS PER | 6. NEASON FOR LEAVING |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From To  | 8. EMPLOYER               | 3. ADDRES             |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK              | 3. BALARY OR EARNINGS PER | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From-TO) | 8. EMPLOYER               | 3 ADDRESC             |
| 4. TYPE OF WO                | 5. SALARY OR EARNINGS PER | 6. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (FROM TO) | 8. EMPLOYER               | 1.ADDRESS             |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK              | BALARY OR CARNINGS PER    | 9. REASON FOR LEAVING |
| 1. INCLUSIVE DATES (PRONTO   | E EMPLOYER                | 8. ADDRES             |
| 4. TYPE OF WORK              | SALARY OR EARNINGS        | REASON FOR LEAVING    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECTION IX
1. CHECK ONE: SINGLE MARRIED MARITAL STATUS WIDOWED SEPARATEL DIVORCED ANNULLED

2. STATE DATE, PLACE AND REASON FOR ALL SEPARATIONS, DIVORCES OR ANNULMENTS

WIFE OR IF YOU HAVE BEEN MARRIED MORE THAN ONCE, INCLUDING ANNULMENTS. USE SHEET FOR FOAMER WIFE OR HUSBAND
HUSBAND: GIVING DATA REQUIRED BELOW FOR ALL PREVIOUS MARRIAGES.

3. NAME OF SPOUSE
   (First)
   Lovencita (Middle) Ramires de Arellano (Nee) (Lost)

4. DATE OF MARRIAGE
5. PLACE OF MARRIAGE

6. DATE OF BIRTH
   9 July 1935
7. PLACE OF DIRTH
   Son Cornur, uerto Rico

8. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH
   Pior6o icon
9. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS

10. PRESENT RESIDENCE (Last residence, il deceased)
    Faina Hora 3., 10. 2, Ponce, Suerto Rico

# SECTION X

| FULL NAME          | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH     | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |
| ------------------ | --- | ------------- | ------------------ | -------------------- |
| Antonio Luis FERRK | X   | 1934          | Poruce, merto Rico |                      |
| 410 J. FSPRE       |     | 1738          | Ponce, Aerto Rico  |                      |
|                    |     |               |                    |                      |
|                    |     |               |                    |                      |
|                    |     |               |                    |                      |

SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY CHILD (Identify child and give hia, or her, present address)

# SECTION XI

|                            |                  | FATHER                   |                         |
| -------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------- |
| 1. FULL NAME               | 2. YEAR OF BIRTH | 3. PLACE OF BIRTH        | 4. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |
| Antonio F                  |                  |                          |                         |
| 5. SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS | 6. OCCUPATION    | 7. PRESENT RESIDENCE     |                         |
|                            |                  | La alhambra, corse, lit. |                         |

# SECTION XII

|                             |                  | MOTHER               |                         |
| --------------------------- | ---------------- | -------------------- | ----------------------- |
| 1. FULL NAME                | 2. YEAR OF BIRTH | 3. PLACE OF BIRTH    | 4. NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |
| my Cina, horto Lico         |                  |                      |                         |
| 5. BUSSEQUENT CITIZENΟΙΙΙΡΟ | 6. OCCUPATION    | 7. PRESENT PEDIDENCE |                         |
|                             |                  |                      |                         |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

## SECTION X111

BROTHERS AND SISTERS

| FULL NAME       | SEX | YEAR OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH     | NATIONALITY AT BIRTH |
| --------------- | :-: | :-----------: | ------------------ | -------------------- |
| Jose A. FERRE   |  M  |     1902      | Ponce, Puerto Rico |                      |
| Rosario FERRE   |  X  |     1905      | Ponce, Puerto Rico |                      |
| Carlos E. FERRE |  X  |     1907      | Ponce, Puerto Rico |                      |
| Herman FERRE    |  A  |     1909      | Ponce, Puerto Rico |                      |
| Ysolina FERRE   |  X  |     1914      | Ponce, Puerto Rico |                      |
*SUBSEQUENT CITIZENSHIPS HELD BY ANY BROTHER OR SISTER (Identify brother, or sister and give his, or her, present address)*

## SECTION XIV

RELATIVES, ACQUAINTANCES AND CONTACTS

1.  NAMES OF RELATIVES IN ANY GOVERNMENT SERVICE: INDICATE NAME OF GOVERNMENTS AND POSITIONS HELD.

None

2.  RELATIVES, FRIENDS, CORRESPONDENTS IN U.S. (Explain relationship)

3.  NATURALIZATION OF CLOSE RELATIVES IN U.S. (Give name, date, city and number of certificate granted)

N.A.

4.  NAMES, ALIASES, TELECOCES AND RELATIONSHIP OF ALL PERSONS KNOWN TO BE CONNECTED IN ANY WAY WITH ANY INTELLIGENCE SERVICE.

## SECTION XV

PERSONAL ASSOCIATIONS

1.  LIST CLOSE ASSOCIATES, INDIVIDUALS OR GROUPS

## SECTION XVI

MISCELLANEOUS

DATE

SIGNATURE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

8 August 1961

SUBJECT: Luis Albert FERRE

1.  Luis Albert FERRE, prominent Puerto Rican businessman, financier, and industrialist, was born in Ponce, Puerto Rico on 17 February 1904. The Subject was educated in the Ponce Public schools, the Morristown School in New Jersey, and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he received his B.S. and M.S. degree in Mechanical Engineering.

2.  FERRE has traveled widely, primarily through Europe and the Caribbean, under united States Passport #3452P, issued in 1953, San Juan, Puerto Rico. Subject speaks Spanish, English, and French; he is a member of the Roman Catholic Church, the Republican (State-hood) Party, Lions Club, and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

3.  FERRE is presently Vice-President of Farre Industries and has held (or in some instances still holds) the following positions:

Vice-President
Ponce, Cement Corp., Ponce, P.R.

Vice-President
Puerto Rico Iron Works, Ponce, P.R.

President
Puerto Rico Glass Corp., San Juan, P.R.

Vice-President
Puerto Rico Clay Corp., San Juan, P. R.

President
Fabrica Nacional Vidrio, Maiquetia, Venezuela

Director
Cementos Nacionales, Santiago de Cuba

Chairman
Ponce Products, Inc, Miami, Florida

Director
Maule Industries, Miami, Florida

Director
Banco de Ponce, P.R..

The Subject's capital holdings are estimated to be over $1,000,000; his earnings are estimated at $50,000 per year.

4. Mr. FERRE is widely known throughout the Caribbean and is reportedly a man of high moral character and above average intelligence.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

JU-232
18 July 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF, WH DIVISION

SUBJECT: General - Operational
Specific - Submitting PRQ Part II on Subject JW-45

REFERENCE: JW-84

In compliance with Reference, the requested information is herewith submitted.

![signature of Warren S. Yauger]
Warren S. Yauger

Enclosure:
PRQ Part II

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

Memo No.: 84

Date 5 June 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: Warren S. YAUGER

FROM: Chief, WHD

SUBJECT: General -

Specific - Subject of References

ACTION REQUIRED:

Reference: A. DIR 01693 (OUT 71937)

B. JW-45

1. The operational use of the subject of the references was requested by ODIBEX on 1 June 1961. In view of KUBARK's previous contact with the subject and probable future operational interest in the subject, STONESET has requested KUBARK's maintainance of the subject's clearance.

2. To complete the subject's clearance for full operational approval, you are requested to provide as promptly as possible the requisite PRQ Part II information. Enclosed herewith are two copies of the appropriate form.

END OF DISPATCH

Attachment

As Stated

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
E ONLY

CON DENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

FI/DC/ISR 1613 L Marie Ferrari

NO.

DATE 1 June 1961

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                                                               | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ------------------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. WH/3/Puerto Rico -Rom 1-004 Barton Hall Attn: Nelson Smith |      | Ura                | Attached for your subject's 201 file.                                                                   |
| 2.                                                            |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3.                                                            |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4. Jarmer                                                     |      | Tot                | Passated to Shuppen stoting Stouret partaker oct                                                        |
| 5.                                                            |      |                    | tukags Sabfon our wore                                                                                  |
| 6.                                                            |      |                    | need aring !!                                                                                           |
| 7.                                                            |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                                                            |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9. Sec.                                                       |      |                    | File Agaper                                                                                             |
| 10.                                                           |      |                    | File fure 20%                                                                                           |
| 11.                                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                           |      |                    |                                                                                                         |

701-205712

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

FORM
1 DEC 54 610 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

Marie Ferrari
ISR 1613 L
x 8077

SECRET
(When Filled in)

TRACE REQUEST ISR MATERIAL
NOT AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED
DOD HR 5200.10

ISRM NO: 3395
DATE 24 May 61
201 NO. 305712

PLS CALL REQUESTOR WHEN CHECK IS COMPLETED

Luis Alberto Ferre Aguayon - Department of the Army

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATIONS
None indicated

DATE OF BIRTH: 1 Feb 1904
PLACE OF BIRTH: Ponce, Puerto Rico
CITIZENSHIP:
OCCUPATION: Mechanical Engineer
PRESENT ADDRESS:
PRESENT EMPLOYMENT:

ADDITIONAL PERTINENT IDENTIFYING DATA
MIT graduate - 1924 - Machanical Engineer
Master Degree, MIT, 1925

Called Army
1 June 1961
WH/3 has operational interest
Nelson Smith 42056
1-004 Barton Hall

1.  Subject is being utilized by a member of the Interagency Source Register and has been duly registered as such.

2.  Above confirms telecon of 1 June 1961 between Miss Ferrari and Mrs. Utz of your office.
    IBRM-3395

@cirre, fru
c/R. actol. not listed

"PRIORITY"

SECRET SC/148


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG :
UNIT :
EXT :
DATE :
N. H. SMITH
WH/3/DR&H
3054
20 SEPTEMBER 1960

TO : BAN JUAN

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: FI, FI/INT 2, S/C 2

INFO:

TO JUAN

INFO

REF: JW-52*

REQUEST REPORT OF ACTION TAKEN REF.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/Comment: "Contact Luis FERRE as soon as possible for information on the
Dominican Republic.

ROUTING

DEFERRED REDU BLE SECT.

ROUTINE

PRIORITY INITIALS

OPERATIONAL INITIALS
IMMEDIATE

CITE DIR
OUT 71937
01693

![signature of RUDOLPH E. GOMEZ, AC/WHD]
RUDOLPH E. GOMEZ, AC/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
S-E-C-R-E-T

![signature of NED P. HOLMAN, AC/WH/3]
NED P. HOLMAN, AC/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Warren S. YAUGER

FROM : Chief, WHD

SUBJECT : General - Operational

Specific - Subject of JW-45

Memo No.: JW- 52

Date : 13 July 1960

ACTION REQUIRED:

Reference :

You are requested to contact Subject as soon as possible and on a continuing basis for information on the internal political situation in the Dominican Republic.

![signature of Oliver G. Galbond]
OLIVER G. GALBOND

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

DR 205712
201

45

Date : 10 June 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR : Warren S. YAUGEP.

FROM : Chief, WHD

SUBJECT : General - Operational

Specific - Luis Albert FERRE (C-82943)

ACTION REQUIRED: See paragraph 2.

Reference :

1. You are advised that Subject was granted provisional operational approval on 31 May 1960 for the purpose of assessing him as a possible source of information on the Dominican Republic, and for determining the feasibility of his providing courier access to that country.

2. To complete Subject's clearance for full operational approval, you are asked to provide as promptly as possible the requisite PRQ Fart II information.

Oliver J. Falbond

OLIVER G. GALBOND

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/DR&H
Attn: Nelson Smith

NUMBER
C-82943

SUBJECT
Luis Albert FERRE

REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated
4 May 1960

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions cesses.

BY
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

DATE
31 May 1960


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

27 May 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

SUBJECT : Imis Albert FERRE
J-82943

REFERENCE : CI/OA Memorandum, same Subject, dated
25 May 1960

1. In reply to Para 1 of Reference, this Division does not believe the information therein precludes consideration of Subject for possible operational use.

2. As for Para 2 of Reference, Reference crossed with advice from this Division that field traces had not revealed derogatory information regarding Subject.

3. Regarding Para 3 of Reference, this Division is not interested in the investigation of possible infraction of the anti-trust laws by Subject. Consequently, it is requested that CI/CA notify the Office of Security to this effect.

E. H. Smith
MH/3/DEAH

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/3/DR&H

ATTENTION: Nelson H. Smith

SUBJECT: Luis Albert FERRE
C-82943 25 May 1960

1. Attached for your information is a copy of a FBI memorandum received this date from the Office of Security. Please advise CI/OA as to whether or not the information contained therein would tend to affect Subject's operational use.

2. Review of Subject's file indicates that field trace results have not yet been received from your Division. Please forward at your earliest convenience for further POA processing.

3. The Office of Security, unless notified to the contrary by CI/OA, will continue its investigation, following the FBI lead provided in the last paragraph of the attached memorandum.

![signature of THOMAS CARROLL, JR.]
THOMAS CARROLL, JR.
Chief, CI/OA

Attachment:
FBI Rpt dtd 19 May 1960

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION

TO: WH/3/DR&H Nelson Smith

FROM: Chief, CI/OA

SECRET

DATE 17 May 1960 ada

C NO. 82943 Luis Albert FERRE

201

In order that further consideration can be given to your request for approval in this case, it is requested that you furnish this office the information checked below:

PRO I OPERATIONAL & DIVISION TRACES

PAQ II ADDITIONAL BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

GREEN LIST RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION

FIELD TRACES

RI TRACES OTHER (See remarks)

REMARKS

No decon field traces (Ju w. Falbraith)

CI/OA so advised 25 May 40.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET

TO: Nelson H. Smith

FROM: FI/D

The reply on your Dream List Request

Number:

100951

FERRE, Luis Albert

was completed and forwarded to CI/OA

13, MAY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# SECRET

I. SUBJECT (NAME, IN ROMAN LETTERS AND IN NORMAL ORDER)

Luis Albert FERRE C-82943

2. ALIASES, VARIANT SPELLINGS, ETC NUMBERS, ETC.

3. BIRTH DATE

17 February 1906

4. BIRTH PLACE

Ponce, Puerto Rico

5. CITIZENSHIP

U.S.

6. PRESENT ACTIVITY AND LOCATION

Vice-President of Ferre Industries
San Juan, Ponce, and Caroline, Puerto
Rico, offices in Mimi and New York

7. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTIES, EDUCATION

Mechanical engineer (degree from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology)

8. MILITARY SERVICE

SERVICE ARM, COUNTRY Unknown SPECIALTY LOCATION DATES

9. PAST OCCUPATIONS

ACTIVITY LOCATION DATES




10. DESCRIPTION

(HEIGHT) 5' 7in

(WEIGHT) 155

(EYES) Brown

(HAIR) Brown

(RACE) W

(OTHER) Scar left cheek

11. SPOUSE (IF WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

Jannette Ramirez de Arellano

12. OTHER MEMBERS OF IMMEDIATE FAMILY, AND ASSOCIATES

13. OTHER SIGNIFICANT DATA (POLITICS, RELIGION, ETC)

Republican (Statehood) Party, religion Roman Catholic

ATTACH EXTRA SHEETS WHEN NEEDED

INSTRUCTIONS: INSERT CARBON: FILL OUT FORMS COMPLETELY. SEND BOTH SHEETS TO F1/D. SEE CS1-10-7

FORM 501 (USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS).

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET

TO: Nelson H. Satth

FROM: FI/D Zu

12 May 160
DATE

A. SEE DOSSIER ON SUBJECT IN FI/D BIOGRAPHIC FILES.

B. A MEMORANDUM IS ATTACHED HERETO.

C. WITH THE LIMITED IDENTIFICATION PROVIDED IN THE REQUEST, FI/D IS UNABLE TO DETERMINE WHETHER THERE IS INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT OR NOT.

Nosd
17 May/60
D. [X] FI/D HASTIC pertinerit FORMATION ON SUBJECT. IF A CONTINUING SEARCH WAS REQUESTED IN SECTION 14, INFORMATION ABOUT THE SUBJECT WILL BE REPORTED TO YOU AS IT BECOMES AVAILABLE.

E. THE SUBJECT OF THIS REQUEST IS APPARENTLY THE SUBJECT OF THE FOLLOWING:

NOTE TO THE ORIGINATING OFFICE

WHEN THE SUBJECT IS NO LONGER IMPORTANT TO YOUR OFFICE, THIS SHEET, WITH THE FOLLOWING CANCELLATION NOTICE COMPLETED, SHOULD BE SENT TO FI/D.

REVIEW YOUR FILE OF THESE SHEETS FREQUENTLY, AND SEND TO FI/D THE SHEETS FOR PERSONS THAT ARE NO LONGER OF SUFFICIENT INTEREST TO DEMAND A CONTINUING NAME CHECK. PLEASE DO NOT TIE UP FI/D'S FACILITIES VITH CONTINUING SEARCHES FOR INFORMATION THAT IS NOT REQUIRED.

TO: FI/0

FROM:

GAS
NAME
OFFICE DESIGNATOR
ROOM, BUILDING
EXTENSION

DATE

CANCEL THE STOP CARD FOR THIS REQUEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

TO Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT FERRE, Luis Albert

SECRET

ATTENTION Nelson H. Smith
WH/3/DR&H

ROOM 1021

BLDG. Barton Hall

C-82943

CCD FILE NO. 5-3, p. 2129

CCD CASE OFFICER F.L.Coolidge

Central Cover Division concurs in your proposal to use the above individual for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon Central Cover Division to maintain an accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity, you are specifically requested to advise Central Cover Division/Non- Official Cover promptly by memorandum when subject has been activated.

If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject is in CCD/NC files. After operational approval is received, and prior to making arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to confer with CCD/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the advisability of additional coordination.

COPY TO CI/OA 11 May 1960

DATE SIGNATURE OF CHIEF, CCD/NC John G. Southard

FORM 12-30 1678

CCD CONCURRENCE

![signature of John G. Southard]

13370

![image of the word Secret]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT  DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

FILE NO.

FERRE, Luis Albert
DISPATCH SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. DATE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

THERE IS A RESTRICTED CI/OA FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201 HELD UNDER C# 82943.

WH/3

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

701-205712

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS. BEONET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION
(Always handle.. copy of the fores)

TO: ☑ CI/Operational App-oval and Support Division

Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT:
(True name) Luis Albert FERRE

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OF ALIASES

DATE: h May 1960

FROM: Nelson H. Smith
ME/3/DRAH

PROJECT:

CI/OA FILE NO.

RI 201 FILE NO. 201-205712

SO FILE NO.

TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

☑ PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

COVERT NAME CHECK

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

USE OF INDIVIDUAL OR ACTION REQUESTED

SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

Doninican Republia

FULL DETAILS OF USE

Subject has connections in the Dominican Republic, and it s anticipated that he may provide useful information on, or through witting or umditing employees, courier access to the Dominican Republic.

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM? ☑ YES NO

IS OR WILL SUBJECT DE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN WINT ☑ YES NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OR COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS

☑ PRO 1, ON EQUIVALENT, IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED ☑ PRO 1: VILL DE FORWARDEO

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT, IN (1) COPY ATTACHED GREEN LIST ATTACHED, NO/

FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD NO INFORMATION OF VALUE

DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH, EVALUATION NOT INITIATED (Baplanation)

WILL BE FORWARDED

RI THACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluetson Attached)

RECOND ☑ HON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY

DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

NO RECORD RECORD NON-DEROGATORY DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

Nelson H. Ondth 2056 Med P. Holmea, 40/ME/3

FORM
11-00 772 USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

VIA: AIR
(SPECIFY AIR OR SEA/ TRAIN)

DISPATCH NO. HPSA-1519

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, San Juan

SUBJECT: GENERAL-Operational

SPECIFIC: PEQ Part I - Mr. Luis Albert Ferre

DATE: OCT 13 1957

Attached is PEQ Part I on subject. PEQ Part II will follow at a later date.

William S Fadene
WILLIAM S. FADANE

Attachment:
PEQ Pt I (4 cys)
PEQ Pt II, Under Separate Cover
17 October 1957

Distribution:
3 - Headquarters, w/att

DS 51-28 A

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
Dl COPY
201-205712


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# SONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE

PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

HPS/PRQ/113

Instruction:

1.  Write clearly.
2.  Answer all questions completely. If question does not apply, write "not applicable"
3.  Attach blank pages if additional space is needed.

1.  Full Name

Luis Albert Ferre

First Middle Last

2.  Name in native script

3.  Name at birth (if different from 1.)

4.  Aliases, nicknames, legal changes (State briefly time, reason and place of use.)

5.  a. Date of birth 17 Feb 1904 b. Place of birth Ponce, Puerto Rico

6.  Present citizenship, race if appropriate American - White

7.  Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (if different from 6.)

8.  Present residence (Owner, tenant, sub-tenant.) Owner

Reina Mora St. #2, Ponce, Puerto Rico

9.  Permanent address (if different from 8.)

10. Present occupation (full title, salary etc.)

Vice-President, Ferre Industries - Over $25,000.

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United States.

(Give date and name in which certificate granted.)

12. Relatives, friends, correspondents in United States. (Explain relationship).

201-2057/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

HPS/PRQ/143

13. Father - full name occupation, present residence, year and place of birth, nationality at birth and subsequent nationalities.
    *Autonic Ferre; La Alhambra, Ponce, P. R.; born in Cuba, 9 June 1877; came to Puerto Rico 1894; American.*

14. Mother - same information as 13.
    Mary Aguayo; born in Ponce, P. R., 1879; deceased.

15. Wife (or husband) - full name, maiden name, date and place of birth, date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give data for all previous marriages.)
    Lorencita Ramires de Arellano; born 9 July 1905, San German, P. R.; American.

Lorenoita FERRE

16. Children - full names, sex, year and place of birth, nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence.
    Antonio Luis Ferro; b. February 1934, Ponce, P. R.; American.
    Rosario J/Ferre; b. 28 September 1938, Perms, P. R.; American.

17. Brothers and sisters - Same information as 16.
    Jose AX Ferre; h. 1902, Ponca, P. Rai American,
    Resario Ferres b. 1905, Ponce, P. Raj Amarios.
    Carlon F.(Ferre; b. 1907, Ponce, P. R.j American.
    Herman Ferre; b. 1909, Ponce, P. Rei Azarican.
    Isolina Ferre; b. 1914, Ponce, P. R. American.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

HPS/PRQ/113

18. Relatives in service of any government, names and positions held.

None.

19. List all official identity papers held with dates, numbers, place of issue and duration of validity.

V. 8. Passport #3452P; issued 1953, San Juan, P. R.

20. Religion - degree practiced, membership in religious orders

Roman Catholic.

21. Present and past political affiliations

Republican (Statehood) Party.

22. Travel outside country of present residence - country, dates, purpose, people and firms visited

Europe, Venesuela, Cuba. Business and travel.

23. Education - school, location, course, Cagree, dates

Ponce Puste Schools.

Morristown School, New Jersey.

Massachusetts Institute of Technology: 8.8. & M.S., Mechanical Engineer.

24. Languages and dialects (indicate proficiency as good, fair, poor.)

Language Spanish Speak X Read X Understand X

Language English Speak ✗ Read X Understand X

Language Franch Speak X Reud. Understand X


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

25. Military service - dates, country, unit, rank, duty, where services performed, decorations, when discharged, why. Give details if ever prisoner of war

HFS/PRO/143

26. Present and past membership in organizations (professional, social, political, etc.)

Lions Clubs.
American Society Mechanical Engineers.

27. Special skills, abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, etc.)

Piano playing; fencing.

28. Financial status - earnings, bank deposits, securities, property

Capital over $1,000,000.
Earnings over $50,000. yearly.

29. Employment history - type of work, salary, dates, employers, addresses, reasons for leaving. Include employment by any government.

Vice-Pres. - Ponce Cement Corp., Ponce, P. R.
Vice-Pres. - Puerto Rice Iron Works, Ponce, P. R.
Pres. - Puerte Ricc Glass Corp., San Juan, P. R.
Vice-Pres. - Puerto Rice Olay Corp., San Juan, P. R.
Pres. - Fabrica Nasional Vidrio, Haigustia, Venesuela
Dir. - Cenentes Nacionales, Santiago de Cuba
Chairman - Ponce Products Inc., Miami, Fia.
Dir. - Maule Industries, Miand, Fla.
Dir. - Bance de Ponce, Ponce, PA R

201-205712


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

HPB/PRO/113

29. (Continued)

30. Has subject done any writing? Give details including titles of books, articles, publishers, dates.

Articles on: Industrial Democracy
American Citizenship
Cement Plants
Sugar Mills

31. List persons living at same address, close associates, (individuals or groups,) correspondents at home and abroad.

Three brothers.
(Mr) Manuel A. Mayoral, Ponce, P. R.

32. List five character references.
    (Col.) Francisco Parra Toro, Ponce, P. R.
    (Col.) Walter E. Bligh, 41 E. 42d St., New York, N. Y.
    (Judge) Cecil E Snyder, San Juan, P. R.
    (Judge) Jorge L. Cordova Diaz, San Juan, P. R.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

HPS/PRO/163

33. Court record - court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals, denazification, etc.

None.

34. Description (Use American standards of measurement, if possible.)

|                            |        |         |                    |
| -------------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------ |
| Age                        | 53     | Posture | Straight           |
| Apparent age               | 50     | Weight  | 155                |
| Height                     | 5' 7½" | Teeth   | Good               |
| Eyes                       | Brown  | Hair    | Brown              |
| Face - shape               | Oval   | Scars   | On left cheek bone |
| Complexion                 | White  | Build   | Slender            |
| Sex                        | Male   |         |                    |
| General appearance         |        |         |                    |
| Prominent features         |        |         |                    |
| Other identifying features |        |         |                    |

35. Other miscellaneous biographical data and comments.

201-205712


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

Subject's own hand

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE,
PART I - BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION

Instructions: 1. Write clearly.
2. Answer all questions completely. If question does not apply, write "not applicable"
3. Attach blank pages if additional space is needed.

1. Full Name
   Luis
   First
   Albert
   Middle
   FERRE
   Last

2. Name in native script

3. Name at birth (if different from 1.)

4. Aliases, nicknames, legal changes (State briefly time, reason and place of use.)

5. a. Date of birth Feb. 17/1904 b. Place of birth Ponce, Puerto Rico

6. Present citizenship, race if appropriate American - White

7. Nationality at birth and any subsequent nationalities (if different from 6.)

8. Present residence (Owner, tenant, sub-tenant.) Owner.
   Reine Mora St. #2, Ponce, P.R.

9. Permanent address (if different from 8.)

10. Present occupation (full title, salary etc.)
    Vice Pres. Ferre Industries - Over $25,000.

11. Naturalization of subject or of close relatives in the United States.
    (Give date and name in which certificate granted.)

12. Relatives, friends, correspondents in United States. (Explain relationship)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

15. Father - full name occupation, present residence, year and place
    of birth, nationality at birth and subsequent nationalities.

ANTONIO FERRE
La Alhambra. PONCE. Puerto Rico-
Born in Cuba 1877 -
Came to P.R. 1894. - American

14. Mother - same information as 13.

Mory Aguayo.
Born in Ponce, Puerto Rico. 1879.
Deceased.

15. Wife (or husband) - full rame, maiden name, date and place of birth,
    date and place of marriage, nationality at birth and any subsequent
    nationalities, present residence, divorce, annulment. (Give date for
    all previous marriages.)

nee
Lorencita Ramirer de Arellano.
FERRE
Born July 9, 1905, San Germes, Puerto Rico,
American

16. Children - full names, sex, year and place of birth, nationality
    at birth and any subsequent nationalities, present residence.

Antonio Luis Ferre Feb 1934
American
Ponce, Puerto Rico.
Rosario Ferre Sept 28. 1938.
Ponce, Puerto Rico
American

17. Brothers and sisters - Same information as 16.

José A. Ferre- Born 1902- Ponce, P.R., American
Rosario Ferre - Born 1905-
" " "
Carlos F. Ferre - " 1907 -
" " "
Hermen Ferre- Born 1909
" " "
Ysolina Ferre " 1914
" " "


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

18. Relatives in service of any government, names and positions held.

None.

19. List all official identity papers held with dates, numbers, place of issued and duration of validity.

U.S. Passport # 3452P - Issued 1953.
Sea Juan, Puerto Rico.

20. Religion - degree practiced, membership in religious orders

Roman Catholic -

21. Present and past political affiliations

Republican (Statehood) Party.

22. Travel outside country of present residence - country, dates, purpose, people and firms visited

Europe, Venezuela, Cuba.
Business & Travel.

23. Education - school, location, course, degree, dates

Ponce Public Schools.
Morristown School - New Jersey.
Moss, Inst. of Technology - B.S. M.S. - Mechanical Engineer

24. Languages and dialects (indicate proficiency as good, fair, poor.)

| Language | Speak | Read | Understand |
| -------- | ----- | ---- | ---------- |
| Spanish  | ✓     | ✓    | ✓          |
| English  | ✓     | ✓    | ✓          |
| French   | ✓     |      |            |

- 3 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

25. Military service - dates, country, unit, rank, duty, where services performed, decorations, when discharged, shy. Give details if over prisoner of var

26. Present and past membership in organisations (professional, social, political, etc.)

Lions Clubs.
American Society Mechanical Engineers.

27. Special skills, abilities, hobbies (radio, photography, etc.)

Piano playing- Fencing-

28. Financial status - earnings, bank deposits, securities, property

Capital over $1,000,000.
Earnings over $50,000 yearly.

29. Employment history - time of work, salary, dates, employers, addresses, reasons for leaving. Include employment by any government.

Vice-Pres. - Ponce Cement Corp., Ponce P.R.
" " - P.R. Iron Works, "
Pres. - P.R. Gloss Corp. - San Juan P.R.
V. P. - P.R. Clay "


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

29. (Continued)

Pres. - Fabrio Nacional Vidrio - Mosque tir - Venezoof
Dir.- Comentos Nociviles. Seatingo de Cuba, Cubo
Chouminen - Posre Products Inc. MiGri, Flde
Dir - Moule Industrin...
Dir. - Banco de Ponce, Ponce, P.R

30. Has subject done any writing? Give details including titles of books, articles, publishers, dates.

Articles on Industrial Democrary.
Americas Citizenship.
Cement Plants.
Sugar Mills.

31. List persons living at same address, close associates, (individuals or groups,) correspondents, at home and abroad.

My Hree Drotings
(ATA, Manuel A/K Mayoral, Ponce, Poorto Rico

32. Lict five character references.

(Col.) Francisco Pom Toro, Ponce, Porto Rico.
(Col.) Walter Bligh, 41 E. 424fl. Nouw York City.
Judge Cecil Snyder, San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Judge) Jorge L. ff Cordova Diat, Sen Vuon Puerto Rico.

Doc 205712


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

33. Court record - court, date, arrests, charges, punishments, sentences, acquittals, denasification, etc.

None

34. Description (Use American standards of measurement, if possible.)

Age 53

Posture Straignt

Apparent age 50

Weight 155

Height 5'-7¼"

Tooth good

Eyes Brown

Hair Brown

Face - shape Oval.

Scars On left cheek bone

Complexion White.

Build Slender.

Sex Male

General appearance

Prominent features

Other identifying features

35. Other miscellaneous biographical data and comments.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

VIA

SECRET

TO: Chief, WIID

FROM: Chief of Station, San Juan

SUBJECT:
GENERAL Operational
SPECIFIC Dominican Republic Progress Report

Reference: A. HPS-4-197, 13 June 1955; B. HPS-4-941; 11 Sept 1956

Action Required: See para. 3

PREDIS

The Station herein outlines what it believes to be the targets for covert operations in the Dominican Republic. Included is a list of assets which the Station has for commencing operations, as well as operational leads, the potentialities of which the Station is investigating. Action taken or contemplated in regards to each of these assets or leads, is also set forth. Periodic progress reports will be forwarded to Headquarters on development of this program.

1. Pursuant to instructions given to REDROPER at Headquarters, the "Station has begun to activate the persons listed in Reference B., where they are still available, and to discreetly ascertain from local contacts further operational leads. There follows a report on the progress made by the Station since REINORUPER's return.

2. The Station's plan of action to begin third country KUTUER operations in the Dominican Republic -- targeted primarily against the Dominican Intelligence Service and the Dominican Ruling Circles -- is as follows:

A. Through SKEDADDLE (Operational Approval granted in HPS4-20) to develop persons in Puerto Rico who have access to individuals in the DR and can enter that area on a regular basis.

(1) SKEDADDLE has been contacted and advised of the activation of operations against the Dominican Republic. It must be pointed out that SKEDADDLE's attitude has cooled somewhat toward taking an active part in operations. He feels frustrated because of the long period in which he has attempted to maintain contact with assets and, at the same time, to maintain contact with assets and, at the same time, to avoid detection. He informed that some contacts have lost interest and others no longer

SECRET

51-28A

KAPOK

22-6-4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# SECRET KAPOK

have access to the target. Eo was advised of importance of these operations and it is believed that he will work out in time.

(4) A review of all of the persons mentioned in Reference 3. was made and it was decided to proceed first with the person mentioned in para. 4.g.(5), Reference B., is considered rest discreet by all who knew him, SKEDADDLE has been instructed to approach him indirectly through a cut-out. The cut-out will be’s personal friend and close confidant for many years, CA Jimines. FOSCA is a senior member of the political party headed by rada member of the local legislature. He is very close to F. Naturally, no indication of Station interest will be divulged at this time. F33 is considered to be a good starting point because he is the owner of many businesses in the Caribbean Area and in Frans and has had many persons working for him over a period of years who owe him allegiance. This includes persons in the Dominican Republic.

(2) Another suggestion by SKEDADDLE which was accepted was that he sound out two National Guard Lieutenant Colonels under his command who have access to persons traveling to and from the Dominican Republic from Puerto Rico. In private life, these men are United States Customs inspectors, who handle entry from the Dominican Republic. They are Lt. Colonel Alberts A’PICO, of Ponce, Puerto Rico, and Lt. Colonel O. ATTEI of San Juan, Puerto Rico. Both of these men are loyal and have clearances from ODIBEX.

(a) SKEDADDLE will interview these men for operational leads.

(3) Interrogation of SKEDADDLE revealed that his relationship with Hilario TIRADO, mentioned in para. 4.g.(2), Reference Box has deteriorated.

(a) It is believed advisable at this time to sound out TIRADO through his former colleagues, which will be done in the near future.

(4) At the next meeting with SKEDADDLE, which will take place in the next few days, he will be requested to covertly contact certain Dominican exiles (see page 3., Reference B.), resident in Puerto Rico, to ascertain the true assets they have within the Dominican Republic. It is felt that SKEDADDLE's morale must be improved prior to assigning this additional work load.

(5) Also, at the next meeting, SKEDADDLE will be requested to contact Francisco PARRA-TORRO in Ponce, Puerto Rico, whose potential is described in Reference B.

B. Through local contacts develop a cadre of PBPRIME continentals located in Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic that would have spotting and casual intelligence potential. (Please note it is not the intention of Station to jeopardize the position of any PBPRIME citizen or company actually located within the Dominican Republic) In this regard, the following is of importance:

SECRET

HPG-A-1223
PAGE 2.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

VIA AIR

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, San Juan

SUBJECT: Operational

SPECIFIC: Dominican Republic Situation Report

REF: HPSA-497, 13 Jun 55

1.  For Headquarters information, the following is a resume of current material that is maintained in order to keep reference up-to-date and applicable should the occasion arise. Part I of reference remains the same, however, certain personnel changes outdate the operational section, Part II of reference. Under Part II, A, the Mission, Objectives and Tasks as stated in reference would be correct were the Station actually conducting operations in the Dominican Republic. However, as the Station is holding any activities in this direction in abeyance per previous correspondence on the subject, it is felt that we should restate our tasks to more accurately reflect the Station's present activity, namely, being prepared for the actual implementation of operations when the occasion arises. Further, that Headquarters may be cognizant of the Station's current activities in fulfilling these tasks, there is included a more current listing of the covert assets maintained for the future implementation of operations.

2.  Under the present situation, the Station's tasks in maintaining itself in readiness for the possible initiation of operations in the future are:

a.  Developing and maintaining background information on persons who are active in anti-Dominican activities in Puerto Rico who, should the occasion arise, would be potential agent material. Should anything happen to the present regime in the Dominican Republic some of these persons would undoubtedly return there and become active in politics.

b. Developing and maintaining current background information and information on the activities of persons who have contact with prominent members of the present government in the Dominican Republic and who have qualifications indicating that they are potential agent material and might be called upon to act in our behalf should the need arise.

![LINDEX logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

W3A-91
Page Two

3.  The Station feels that in directing its efforts in both the above directions, it will have at least a good starting point when operations in the Dominican Republic begin. Naturally, per previous correspondence, all of these operations would be worked from outside the Dominican Republic utilizing third country methods. The Station does not believe that any of the prospective assets, other than SKEDADDLE, should become aware of our interest in them under the present circumstances. It is felt that were we to carry operational development of these assets any further at this time that we would run the risk of having them go cold and possibly sour as we could not actually put them to work under present conditions. We feel that this is the best method of keeping our assets on ice.

b. A current listing of assets available as of the present date is as follows:

a. SKEDADDLE -- Situation is the same as that noted in reference. He is still considered a very good choice as a future P/A for these operations. He continues to maintain contact with Dominicans located in Puerto Rico and to keep himself aware of their activities. Most of the persons listed below are contacted through SKEDADDLE.

b. Tobias ECHOLS -- Subject is still available through his place of employment. Subject has become less active in reserve activities to date. Contact with him is maintained through SKEDADDLE.

c. SKEET is a commercial outfit and writer painting occasional contact with it.

d. KANTA-Famine in his present position, however, is considered better situated to assist the Station in money conversions, etc., and is no longer considered necessary to this objective.

e. Leslie HIGHLEY is a contact of Station personnel. He is in the advertising business and has previously handled the account for the publicity of the Dominican Republic Fair in Puerto Rico. He is now planning to open an office in the Dominican Republic. Presently, he is planning a campaign to interest Puerto Rican tourists in travel to the Dominican Republic. His contacts are strictly business, and he has let the Dominican Republic Government know that he will not involve himself in any of their political machinations. They are apparently satisfied with this arrangement. Subject has indicated a willingness to report anything of interest that comes to his attention in his dealings with and, in the Dominican Republic, The Station believes that his greatest potential is that of a spotter of potential agent material in the Dominican Republic. He is carried as current with that in.

f. The active anti-Trujillo organization here is made up of Dominion Exiles for the most part. Contact with that organization is maintained through SKEDADDLE. The possibility of potential agent material among.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

EPSA-241
Page Three

Their leaders is considered to be good. Among this group are the following:

(1) (Dr.) Angel MORALES, leader of the Dominican exiles in Puerto Rico. MORALES has no visible means of support; possibly lives on private income.

(2) Carmen Natalia MARTINEZ, secretary to MORALES, active Dominican exile.

(3) (Dr.) Leovigildo CUELLO, M.D., occasionally practices in Puerto Rico; is second man in the organization of Dominican exiles in Puerto Rico.

(4) Oscar MICHILENA, Dominican exile, active, operates a photo shop in Santurce, Puerto Rico.

(5) Frank JOELLINI, leader of the pickets who regularly demonstrate in front of the Dominican Republic Consulate in San Juan. Subject has a brother who is a printer in San Juan but he is not visibly employed. Subject is apparently a fanatic and recently reported to the local police that the killer of Dr. GALINDEZ in New York was in San Juan after him. He claimed that the killer was a person known as "El Cojo". Local investigation did not substantiate his claim which probably was done as a publicity attempt in the anti-Trujillo campaign locally.

(6) Amable and Rafael HERNANDEZ, Dominican exiles, San Juan insurance brokers. Subjects, at one time, occupied an office in the same building with the Dominican Consulate but have moved recently to the Condado Section of Santurce. They recently told EKEDADDLE that activity of the anti-Trujillo group here has been "quiet of late".

(7) Luis ORTIZ Arseno, active Dominican exile in San Juan.

*Persons with official contacts in the Dominican Republic.

(8) (Captain) Enrique JANER, Professor of Military Science ROTC, NPI
at the University of Puerto Rico, is a naturalised PBPRIME citizen and is, known to Station through Q-2 here. Subject has two or three brothers who served in World War II with PBPRIME. His family is originally from the Dominican Republic but they apparently fled some years ago and took up permanent residence in Puerto Rico. The family has relatives there and subject still knows people in the Dominican Republic. Recently JANER recommended one Rafael MONTAZ, Lawyer in the Dominican Republic, who is the director of the Historical Museum in downtown Ciudad Trujillo, and on the strength of this recommendation, MONTAZ was contacted by a local ODIREX officer. As a result of this contact, the ODIREX officer suggested both JANER, and MONTAZ to the Station as possible operational prospects.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

EPSA-741
Page Four

(2) *Hilario TIRADO*, Puerto Rican, formerly a Warrant Officer with the CIC and now operating a photo shop owned by his brother-in-law on Avenida Ponce de Leon, Stop 18-20, Santurce, Puerto Rico, visits the Dominican Republic frequently to go hunting with a prominent Dominican who is his close personal friend. Both TIRADO and this Dominican are ardent cock fight fans and the Dominican often brings his cocks to fight in Puerto Rican rings. TIRADO is recommended by SKEDADDLE as completely trustworthy and could be approached should the need arise.

(3) Francisco *AYALA-TORO*, former G-2 Colonel, retired and now an attorney-at-law with offices in the Banco de Ponce Building, Ponce, Puerto Rico, knows many persons traveling to the Dominican Republic. He is a close friend of SKEDADDLE and was introduced at one time to the former Chief of Station.

(4) Captain *CANEPA*, on active duty with the Selective Service system in Puerto Rico, is a naturalised PEPRIME citizen. His father was a former cattle farmer in the Dominican Republic, however, it is rumored that Trujillo wanted his father's property and forced the family to move out of the Dominican Republic. The family fled and settled here. CANEPA should know persons on both sides of the political fence in the Dominican Republic. SKEDADDLE knows CANEPA superficially but know his sister well when he worked for G-2 here. CANEPA is described as good, serious and probably could provide operational leads in Puerto Rico.

(5) Luis *ALTERRE*, Puerto Rican industrialist, is head of Empresas FEMME in Puerto Rico and is also a member of the local legislature. Subject is also head of the Puerto Rican Statehood Party (affiliate of the Republican Party) and is that party's candidate for the Governorship in the forthcoming elections. He is known to SKEDADDLE and could provide operational leads as his company does much business in the Dominican Republic.

(6) Continuing contact is also maintained by Station personnel with senior members of large PEPRIME firms with offices both here and in the Dominican Republic which include, for example, Esso Standard Oil Company and the Texaco Company. These contacts are exploitable and could be very valuable should the need arise.

Other persons of less reputable character but of possible use should a particular situation arise are:

(1) Luis Manuel BORDAS of HERMANOS BORDAS, Inc., Puerto Rico, a large casino dealer in Puerto Rico with central offices in Pueblo Viejo, Urb. Monterrey, P.R. Subject was born in the Dominican Republic and is a naturalised PEPRIME citizen. He was drafted in World War II; received a commission through OCS during his stay in the service and was described as being a loyal and good officer. Upon discharge from the service he joined the anti-Trujillo forces in Puerto Rico. In 1949 or 1950, BORDAS purchased


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

PSA-941
Page Five

Sary canteens, ammunition belts, etc., at a surplus sale at Fort Buchanan,
Puerto Rico, which he had shipped to a Dominican Exile group in Cuba who
were then being trained. At this time he also engaged in recruiting Puerto
Rican veterans, promising thon high salaries and rewards if they would go
to Cube and join the anti-Trujillo forces in training there. The recruits
vere sent to Cuba via Miaal, however, one of the recruite returned to Hiani
fras Cuba and exposed the whole operation to the Miami Herald which was
instrumental in blowing tic preparations being made and exposing BORNAS.
It if said that the government had enough on his to prosecute for acting.
in behalf of a foreign group, however, little action was taken against him.
His comission was revoked, however, because of these activities. At :
present, reports are that BORDAS is "taking it easy" because his firmie
nov doing business in the Dominican Republic. He is known to SKEDADOLK
and if we desired, possible advantage could be taken of his anti-Trujillo
sentiments in view of his past activities.

(2) PAZA, owner and operator of the #2 Dice Club" in
San Juan, is a big gaahler and unsavory. Subject is rumored to be a
Trujillo agent in Puerto Rico and is reported as the type who would
probably play both sides of the Druftllo argument. He pas sans contact
with pro-Trujillo Dominicans and possibly also with anti-Trujillo Dominicana.
No. is not considered trustworthy nor is he recommended by SKEDADOLA, how-
over, he is listed here as a possible should ever a person of his "talents"
be desired..

5. It is requested that the names listed in Paragraph & above. be
   shecked by the desk at a Headquarters level for Andication of points that
   sight not be known to the Station.

William S. Falive
WILLIAM-S. FADANS,

11 September 1956

Distribution..
3-adquarters


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY
## SECRET
(When Filled In)
# PERSONALITY (201) FILE REQUEST

TO RI/ANALYSIS SECTION

FROM RI/AN

DATE 24/10/57:

ACTION

INSTRUCTIONS: Form must be typed or printed in block letters.

SECTION I: List 201 number, name and identifying data in the spaces provided. All known aliases and variants (including maiden name, if applicable) must be listed. If the identifying data varies with the alias used, a separate form must be used. Write UNKNOWN for items you are unable to complete.

SECTION II: List cryptonym or pseudonym, if assigned. If true name is sensitive, obtain 201 number from 201 Control Desk and complete Section I and Section III. On a separate form, enter the 201 number and complete Section II and Section 111. Submit each form separately.

SECTION III: To be completed in all cases.

SECTION I

NAME 201 NO. 1. SOURCE DOCUMENT (Title) SEX 3.

FERRE, LUIS ALBERT 205712 HRSA-01519

NAME VARIANT

RECORD COPY

PHOTO 4. BIRTH DATE 5. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 6. CITY OR TOWN OF BIRTH 7. OTHER IDENTIFICATION

YES NO 17-02-04 PR PONCE 1. 2. 3.

OCCUPATION/POSITION OCC/POS. CODE

Via-Pose, geure Industrieg

SECTION II

CRYPTONYM PSEUDONYM

COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE 10. ACTION DESK 11. SECOND CO.INTRY INTEREST 12. THIRD COUNTRY INTEREST

PR WH/3AN

COMMENTS:

SECTION III

PUNCHED

PERMANENT CHARGE RESTRICTED PILS SIGNATURE

YES NO YES NO Dr. Jusan

Form No. 831 Use previous editions.

SECRET

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY

201-205712


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)