# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 96-5793319
SENSIND:
PAGE: 1

SECRET

FRP: .2, .4,

STAFF

ACTION: CE/W/MB (272) INFO: C/ORMS, CE/TNI, CEDORECORD, CTC/COPS, CTC/IFC,
CTC/OOG, CTC/RTB, CTCARCHIVE, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE, C/CTC, CTC/ELB,
DC/CTC (5/W)

96 5793319 ASO PAGE 001 IN 5793319
TOR: 231740Z OCT 96 MNSK 15996

SECRET 231740Z OCT 96 STAFF

CITE MINSK 15996

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT CE/W/MB

SLUGS: WNINTEL GTDANCER

*SUBJECT: <JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS TEAM

REF: SECSTATE 220406

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: IMMEDIATE REPLY.

2. EMBASSY HAS ASKED COS TO APPROACH JYVAPOROUS RE *ACCESS TO<JFK ASSASSINATION>RECORDS RESIDING IN THEIR ARCHIVES IN MINSK APPARENTLY NORMAN MAILER WAS GIVEN ACCESS TO DO RESEARCH FOR HIS BOOK ON THE SUBJECT TWO YEARS AGO. EMBASSY ATTEMPTS TO OBTAIN ACCESS OVER THE PAST YEAR *HAVE BEEN FUTILE. A TEAM FROM THE<ASSASSINATION>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD IS ARRIVING 29 OCT TO MEET WITH GOB) OFFICIALS ON THE SUBJECT AND EMBASSY WOULD LIKE TO GET THIS JOB DONE.

3 COS MUST ADMIT CARRY-ING-WATER-FOR THIS EMBASSY-IS- A SOMEWHAT-DISTASTEFUL CHORE, BUT IS WILLING TO DO THE NEEDFUL (IF ONLY FOR THE PLEASURE OF HAVING EMBASSY CONCEDE THEY COULD NOT ACCOMPLISH THE MISSION WITHOUT NWBOLTON). STATION DOES NOT SEE ANY PROBLEMS, BUT IN ORDER TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS IN-TIME-AN-IMMEDIATE CONCURRENCE_IS REQUESTED.. THANKS-AND-REGARDS.

4. FILE: GUNGA-DHIN. CL BY:-0.5.9.3.8.9.9 CL REASON:
   1.5 (C) DECL_ON_X1 DRV HUM 4-82

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)