# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Miéne 16 Dec 1962 regarding informations furnished
by Isenge Winters, #55769

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only

Subject advised that Aline MOSBY was a newspaperman in SCHAPIRO' office. HUBY, during the past year, had been in the hospital on several occasions, and one didn't see too much of her. Subject also advised that MOSBY stuck mostly to the foreign circuit rather than the Embassy circuit. Subject stated that one of the reasons MOSBY was in the hospital, on one occasion, was the fact that she had an abortion, according to gossip.

Subject stated that another newspaperwomen in Moscow was Priscilla JOHNSON. Subject advised that JOHNSON had the reputation of being a fairly good reporter and one whom the Soviets kept on a month to month visa basis. Subject indicated that it was highly possible the Soviets had attempted to recruit JOHNSON, as she spent a lot of time with Soviet nationals.

Subject was queried as to whether he had ever made an unauthorized disclosure of classified information in the Soviet Union, to which he replied that he had not disclosed classified information as such. He stated that his cover, which he had used for the period in between State Department assignments, was that he was a consultant of the AEC, particularly to the Joint Atomic Energy Intelligence Committee; composed of AEC, CIA, State, NSA, Joint Chiefs, and the Armed Services. Subject stated that he had indicated to individuals, when questioned, that he had done economic research and analysis in the Soviet field and that he had done this ever since he had first become a State Department employee. Subject stated that, among others, he had discussed this with Ray HUTCHINS, his counterpart in the British Embassy.

Subject was asked for his itinerary on his return trip to the United States and who authorized the trip. Subject stated that he had long planned to come home via the Far East, and it was a well publicized plan, He stated that when he left Moscow, he stayed over in Delhi for a week to see if there were any objections from Headquarters as to his itinerary, He stated that when he received no instructions to the contrary, he returned to the United States via his previously announced plans and the differences in fares being borne by him.

Subject departed Moscow 1 September 1960 (1:00 A.M.); wont to Tashkent and then to Delhi where he spent one week; Bangkok, 4 days; Saigon, 6 days; Hong Kong, 2 days; Tokyo, 5 days; Hawaii, 5 days; San Francisco, 5 days; Los Angeles, 2 days; Las Vegas, 2 days; Denver, 10 days; arrived Washington 24 October 1960.

12


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)