# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1921 DISSEM PER SOP #111

CONF: LA-5 INFO: FILE, VR, IP/DMS, ODPD-D, (8/P)

78 0374944 PAGE 001 TOT: 021727Z MAR 78 DIRECTOR 180640

SECRET
STAFF 021727Z DIRECTOR 180640
TO: [GUAYAQUIL] INFO LA[MIAMI, QUITO]

ININTEL REAM TRACE

REFERENCE: A. [GUAYAQUIL] 22049

B. [GUAYAQUIL] 17852 (DATED 01 AUG 73)

1. FOLLOWING ARE HQS TRACES ON EVELIO DUQUE MIYAR (201-0302008):

A. IN 56 DUQUE STARTED HIS FIGHT AGAINST BATISTA IN THE ESCAMBRAY AND OBTAINED THE RANK OF CAPTAIN. IN JUN 59 HE FORMED AN ORGANIZATION UNDER THE NAME OF CUBAN ANTI-COMMUNIST YOUTH" IN ORDER TO COMBAT THE CASTRO REGIME. IN AUG 60 HE OPENLY RAISED ARMS AGAINST CASTRO IN THE ESCAMBRAY MOUNTAINS.

B. DUQUE AND FOUR OTHERS ARRIVED MIAMI AREA BY BOAT ON 5 JUN 61. A POA WAS GRANTED DUQUE ON AUG 61 AND HE WAS CONTACTED AND DEBRIEFED. HE WAS PUT IN TOUCH WITH JMNAVE. DUQUE ASKED FOR OUR ASSISTANCE TO OBTAIN ARMS AND RE-GROUP HIS GUERRILLA FIGHTERS IN CUBA. IT WAS AGREED TO ASSIST DUQUE AND GROUP. HE RECEIVED NO SALARY AND THE ONLY COMMITMENT MADE WAS TO TRAIN AND INFILTRATE DUQUES GROUP IF THEY FOLLOW OUR DIRECTION AND CONTROL. ON MAY 62 HIS POA WAS CANCELLED BECAUSE DUQUE REFUSED TO PERMIT TEAM TO ENTER CUBA, SINCE THEN WE HAVE HAD NO FURTHER CONTACT WITH DUQUE.

C. IN JULY 63 DUQUE NOW LEADER OF THE EJERCITO CUBANO ANTICOMMUNISTA, FRENTE ESCAMBRAY (ECA) AND HIS ECA GROUP PLANNED TO TAKE THE KEYS ON NORTHERN COAST OF LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, THE TRUE PURPOSE OF THE MISSION, HOWEVER, WAS TO EMBARRASS THE USA AND FORCE IT INTO DIRECT ACTION AGAINST CUBA, ALSO WANTED TO SEEK RECOGNITION FROM OAS AND UN WITH THE HOPE OF PUTTING THE USA IN THE MIDDLE.

D. IN 66 THE FBI REPORTS THAT DUQUE AND HIS ECA GROUP HAVE NOT BEEN ACTIVE BECAUSE OF A LACK OF FUNDS.

E. FROM 1966 UNTIL 1973 WE HAVE NO INFORMATION REGARDING HIS ACTIVIITES.

IN 73 (REFERENCE B) YOUR STATION REPORTED THAT A SINSITIVE UNILATERAL PENETRATION OF THE LOCAL DRUG MILIEU REPORTED THAT

![RECOR SECRET]

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET STAFF

78 0374944 PAGE 002 DIRECTOR 180640
TOT: 021727Z MAR 78

: GUAYAQUIL DRUG TRAFFICKER ALFREDO ORDONEZ GONZALEZ TRAVELLED
TO SAN JOSE AND MET WITH DRUG TRAFFICKERS,
EVELIO DUQUE BORN CA 33, CUBA SERVED IN CUBAN REBEL ARMY,
LEFT CUBA IN 60 AND OWNS HACIENDA NEAR
SAN JOSE, TRACES AT THAT TIME AND
PRESENT REVIEW OF 201 FILE FAIL TO CONTAIN ANY INFORMATION CONNECTING
• DUQUE WITH DRUG TRAFFICKING.

2. HQS INTERESTED IN LEARNING YOUR INTEREST IN DUQUE.
   PLEASE ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-302008. E2, IMPDET.>
   LA/COMMENT: REF REQUESTED TRACES ON SUBJECT.
   ORIG: LA/CO/WH (BARR X1491); COORD: C/LA/CO/WH (MANELL)
   LA/CARI ( ); AUTH: LA/VCE/E (TURBEVILLE); REL: C/LA/VCE
   (BEARDSLEY); CL BY 012034,

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)