# SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: AMBRUSH Organization

Job # 63-345/6

File # 19-5-6

Dated included: Apr 61 - Jan 62

Volumes: 1

1. Description:

Revolutionary Council Anti-Castro Security and
Counter-Intelligence Team.

2. Findings:

No findings in relation to the terms of reference.

Of possible interest: A document dated 19 August
1961 source: AMPAL-1, hand carried to Hqs. from WAVE
in August 1961. The document mentions "Cuban Communist
penetration agents in all branches of importance of the
U.S. Government" ... Mentions a possible "Castro
penetration into the Frente (FRD - Revolutionary
Democratic Front) and U.S. activities".

3. Other Agencies with Knowledge of this Activity:

Apparently, none.


Barbara Boyle
Researcher


CDH comment: Check out Eugenio MARTINEZ again.

(SI)IPSTREAM-1 said in 1976 that one Eugenio MARTINEZ was working
for the Cubans. A Eugenio MARTINEZ was involved in the Watergate;
a former JMWAVE Station agent.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

August 19/61

Enclosed find an approximate list of expenses that (Armando Munero) gave me for consideration. However, he would like to talk it over as to the rest of his stay in the U. S.

(Armando Munero) enclosed a note he asked to have sent over, "La Voz d las Americas"(onda corta--m ort wave). This is supposed to be some sort of signal to his 0. P. C. group in Cuba to get behind and cooperate with information and sabotage.

I did not talk to him as yet since I am awaiting word from you as t this Monday's meetings with him.

August 19/61

Jacinto Luzarraga, a friend from Cuba and former sugar mill owner, and father-in-law of Lino Fernandez (MRR, now in jail at the Isle Pines), told me that Dr. (Antonio Valdes Rodriguez)(30th of Noviembr Movimiento) was taken to jail after returning to Cuba from Miami last time here, and not es yet released. Jacinto arrived here wit his wife and 3 grandchildren about 5 days ago. He was formerly a member of the famous old Cuban A B C group. It should be remembe that Dr. (Valdes) received training in S/W, his last trip here.

August 19/61

Ben Volpe, now working at Holiday Tours, Biscayne Blvd., Miami, t me that his father, having come from Cuba a few days ago, told him that Federico Claramont, 1100 10th St., Miami Beach (living close them), is a suspected member of Castro's G-2 and known as such si being in Cuba. He arrived in the U. S., Miami, as a political ex which is a cover for his true mission here, and status.

August 19/61

Jacinto Luzarraga and his relative told me that it is being rumor that since only men are taken to Opa Locka by Immigration for 48 Fidel Castro is sending in many G-2 women instead of men for his clandestine operations here, between here and Cuba. I also heard rumored that some of these agents are sent to tie in with Communi in the U. S., various regions of the U. S. I have no other info. this as could not find out more since it was told to me as a rumc

August 19/61

(Armando Munero) told me that he gets information from his uncle Guillermo Rojas, a long time Cuban Communist who is presently wor in the Imprenta Nacional at Havana. He helped(supposed to be one


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Cont'd.6.-- the main) organize the library of the Communist throughout Cuba. His uncle told him that Kruschev promised Fidel Castro that he have missles in Cuba (this was a few months ago). Also, his unc? that the Russians have spies in the Pentagon that pull for Fidel Castro, and they have already plenty of agents bel nging to the Communists in all branches of importance of the U. S. Gov't., even in the CIA. He said that all people in Cuba that worked vi the CIA were picked up through their agents and those presently working with same are being watched closely. (Munerd told me thi he is kind of suspicious of Eugenio, his being Cuban and because a sort of sixth sense, as he calls it.

August 19/61
-Bart told me last week that Juez Garceran was the one that sent letter you received to Carlos Prio as he recognized the handwrit on both envelopes. The above judge bold Bart that some have bee given Salvo. Conductos to Mexico and that the Italian Embassy is emptying out same. This judge is the one that made the list of people held up in the Italian Embassy, that you received from Bar -Bart told me that he thought that Alberto Del Junco (MDC), that I in touch, with is getting aid from someone from the U. S. Gov't. Del Junco's sister saw him this past Friday night at his home and gave him $5,000.00 in U. S. Dollars(money) to send through the Po to Cuba to be given to her brother down there. She didn't want t disclose to Bart where and from whom she received the money, and only said that it was from his group (HDC) here. Bart thinks that this is not true. He sent the money down already.
-Enclosed(marked in pencil, #7) find photostatic copies of letters sent to Oscar Diaz from former F.Castro Pres. Urrutia and from a Macaroni that Bart kno ws. It is self explanatory in Spanish and Bart says that he knows that the air strips shown on enclosed map are truely in existence. Part received these photostatic copies to his suggesting same to Oscar Diaz upon delivery. I couldn't to this letter to you a few nights ago as he had to deliver same in hour of the time I visited him. However, I suggested his trying t stand by when the letter was opened. Oscar Diaz liked Part's idea making photostatic copies of same and Bert asked for one for himse


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Cont'd. 3.-- It seems that Captain Despain wants to break up the Intell. Servi of the Frente due to lack of funds, says Dr. F'dez. However, during having tried to find out whether this Captain Dospain was Ernest we were not sure. Having been introduced upon our 2nd visit last Friday, 9:30 A. M.(first visit was 2 days previously at 9:30 A.M.) we were presented to Ernesto Despain, the person we were looking some time now(due to his relations with Ceferino Alvarez(G-2) and Josefina Socarras(Ceferino's girl friend, of whom I have been writing about for some time now). We started to get places, with all full cooperation, the first time there as we spoke only to Dr. Fidez. Second time, with Despain present, we felt that we should not go many details. Dr. F'dez. told us that Despain was planning on sending him with a delegation to Puerto Rico. I feel, as well as Frank, this Dr. F'dez.(around 60 yrs. old) is a person that could very organize his office to be of very valuable service against Castro his Communists here in the States, as well as in Latin America who they already have their own agents operating. It is felt that Despain is trying to get Dr. F'dez. out of the way because he recognizes importance of the planned Intelligence Service the Frente , through F'dez., which could produce a very strong arm against Castro. Dr. F'dez. says that they are now working on the ABC form as used against a former president of Cuba known as Machado. Enclosed is an idea of how this group functions and are placed into many walks life of importance to this cause. Their work is mainly of Intell Service and in a form of cooperating with the U.S.Gov't. in all ways possible without trying to get monies, if possible, to function. I'm presently trying to get donations to $300.00 to keep his office going for a month. Upstairs in the same building, they have radio operators (very well experienced) continuously monitoring all phases of importance in Cuba(sugar mills, etc.). Frank asked Despain if the file he had in his hands was for us. Despain was caught a little off bounds as he became somewhat unnerved, but soon rallied and opened the file showing data on boats, but taking great pains to keep us from seeing the contents. I didn't want to press the point arousing any suspicion. Dr. F'dez. introduced me as a Joe Anderson, FBI man. I had formerly cautioned him against referring to me as anything special, which he


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Cont'd.8-----did anyway. I let it go at that to see the developments as it we
no use to refute him again. However, when we parted, I did mention him again that he should not do so at random as I did not think i necessary nor what we had agreed upon. Dr. F'dez. did say so as introduced us to Despain as his Jefe (chief) and wanted to show his loyalty at the same time explaining to him that he was cooperating with us in all ways possible against Castro and Communism, which plainly seen that Despain didn't like at all. Despain sat silent no questions asked, hard, eyeing us as if waiting to see how far FBI had gotten into matters of the Frente. I did not ask the Dr. questions I wanted to and only said that I would like to be in to with him at all times. Enclosed you will find photostatic copies letters sent by Cubans here to Prague and the answers of same.. told me to ask him how he got this information. Idid not feel the should have done so at the moment. However, I will be in touch with Dr. F'dez. again soon as I said I would. I will not go to the of of this Intell. again as I was almost seen by a Frank Paez, Pepe Aguero's friend. Pepe Aguero is Paula Grau's husband, now here. turned my head away, I think, in time. Dr. Fdez. says that he has of more information to give me and that loads of stuff reaches him daily, all of which he can turn over to me for study. He said that will get for me CIA files that the Frente has hidden and want to with him. I feel, if Despain, is out of the way, I could do much getting what is needed of them. I do not feel safe with him around I may be wrong, but that is the way I feel about security with him. I promised to return the enclosed photostatic copies but feel that of the files can be taken over for copy for the asking, as Dr. F' said he would cooperate to the fullest.

Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez: Office (9 to 11 A.M.): FR-1-5133
Home (from 8 P.li. to 8 A.M.): III-4-1853
Frente (from 11:30 A.M. to 1 P.M.): FR-4-2630-38-39

He holds a Frente Carnet No. 102, Frente Revolucionario Democratic (F.R.D.), Delegacion de: El Salvador (Rescate) and receives $200.00 monthly as a salary from the Frente.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

8. 
August 19/61
Frank Arias has given me the following information (about DESPAN).
Captain (Lieutenant, known formerly as) Ernesto Despain, head of Frente Intelligence Service at 174 14th Lane, Miami, with entrance in back of building at 15th Street, off Brickell Ave., worked for with Ceferino Alvarez (G-2, known as) in Government Insurance (Seguro del Gobierno) and formerly in the now non-existent BANSECO (branch of National Bank of Cuba). Josefina Socarras worked with them also Seguro del Gobierno. I have written of Josefina before through findings of Frank, who knew them all in Cuba (not Despain directly, only his family). This Captain Despain is an intimate friend of Ceferino and Josefina (planning to go to New York soon). She has trying to get something started here, as reported before. It is strongly urged that this Josefina be surveilled constantly as I, as well as Frank, think that she is affiliated with Castro's clandestine activities here in the States. She received monthly checks from the Centro Refugiado. Captain Despain is planning on going to join the U. S. Army. He is definitely strongly suspected of giving everything of Intelligence to Castro and is tied in with the Communist and Castro groups here. He may even soon plan to disappear from the scene and should not be allowed to get off easily. He has been keeping Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez from organizing his anti-Castro and Anti-Communist files due to lack of funds (says Despain). It seems that this was just an excuse before and was done to keep the ball functioning as should be. I think that this Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez is very sincere and is innocently giving everything into the hands of Despain without knowing. How Despain got into this position is not known by us yet. As far as we are concerned he is a Castro penetration into the Frente and U. S. activities.

The above is the result of being sent to see Dr. Jose Julio Fernandez, head of Intelligence Service of the Frente (as told us by Former Cuban Grl. Socallanes, friend of Frank). I went with Frank to try to find out about a woman whose son (one of two of them) had taken data and pictures for Castro of all military and naval installations in the State of Florida.

Cautioned him against referring to me as anything special, which he


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Cont'd.s---"Enclosed find the groups belonging to the Frente that was writte for me by this Dr. F'dez."

Enclosed find(#8 marked) "Reporte and Informe" (2 sheets) given me
Dr. F'dez. to show what they are doing now.
Dr. D'dez. informed me of the following:

(a). A Communist militant; Alberto Iglesias, 425 Cedar Lane,
Meadow, New York (Phones: IV-1-4368 and IV-6-4547). He is a
Resident of the U. S. for more than 20 years. He has his
business, "American Welding and Boiler Works Co.". This is
man to be watched as he even uses his business as a front.
(b). Mario Garcia, Miami Ventilated Awning Co., Inc. (works at):
presently asking Immigration permission to go to Cuba and
considered as one of Fidel Castro's heads here with a grea
many ties.

Enclosed find a break down of expenses of the Frente Intell. Office
given me by Dr. F'dez., my asking him for same. Frank Aries is
helping the Dr. get funds for the maintenance of this office for
least another month. I think that this set up should be taken in
study.

9. August 21/61
   Enclosed find marked #9, 2 documents, given me by Emanuel Carvajal
   last night which are self-explanatory in Spanish. One is a list
   exiles in their Costa Rican Embassy in Havana, and the other is a
   document (copy) signed and given today to the Minister of Foreign
   Relations of Cuba in Havana. It seems that there was very much
   discussions concerning same amongst the foreign diplomats in Cuba.
   The Egyptian Embassador (RAU: Syria, etc.) went to the first meeting
   the diplomats had in Habana concerning the new monetary exchanges.
   He first agreed strongly with the rest and promised to sign the
   enclosed type document concerning the new exchange in Cuba. The
   first meeting was held last Monday, Aug.13th, and they met again
   a second time on Thursday in order to sign. He (name not known by
   Carvajal) then refused to sign and did not even show up which indi
   cated to the remainder of the diplomats that his money must have been
   exchanged in the full amount to keep him off the list of signature.

The Swiss Charge D'Affairs informed at the same meeting, to the
Diplomats, that he received information from his Government that the
Swiss Gov't. was checking all present Cuban bank accountants existing
in Switzerland and were readying themselves to act accordingly in
case the Cuban Gov't. should not reach any agreement in regards to
the exchange with the Diplomats.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Cont'd. 9---
- The Japanese Embassador said he informed his Gov't. about these difficulties as a protest against the behavior of the Cuban Gov't. This he told at the Diplomatic meeting.

- About a week ago, there was a hunger strike at the Brazilian Emb by the exiles there. However, they gave up as a gesture to only obedience to the Embassador. They protested against not receiving salvo conductos and other things.

- This coming week, Monday or Tuesday, the Diplomats again are getting together at a meeting to protest before the Cuban Gov't. about to lax and purposeful designing ways of handling this affair, and remind the Gov't. of their obligations in extending the courtesy according International agreements.

- Carvajal asked me not to mention this, but later said that he informed us about Embassador Quiros leaving Havana this Thursday as he was being recalled by the Costa Rican Gov't. for consultati Carvajal will be in charge of the Embassy for the time, but said he didn't expect the Embassador to return as he is taking his family and house hold items.

- He also told me again that Eduardo Odio, Costa Rican Consul in Havana, was a person not to be trusted by many experiences they already had with him.

- DO NOT MENTION CROWN NOW!

- (ARMANDO MORALES) wife CALLED LAST NIGHT saying HE ENTERED CUBA THROUGH AIRPORT without any Mislija! HE AND THE WIFE TOLD TO INFINI HE OF SAME!)

- I have money for him? you want to give it to her?

- Conditional situation
- Thurs or Sat- reciprocate - perhaps
- AFG-DICH-CIA - ALUMINATE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)