# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETYRT

On Friday, 19 June, departed Miami for Kingston, Jamaica via Pan American, leaving Viani at O400 and arriving Lingston via Montego Bay at 10:15 AM. This flight contitares to on to San Juan, Puerto Rico. and Latin passengers are commonplace. In passing through inmigration and cusions, it is necessary to give the imigration inspector the name of a specific botel or address at which you can be reached in Janaica.

Obtained rental car from Hertz Car Rental and departed Lingston Airport at 10:45 AM via Highway A-4 for Fort Antonio of the worth coast. Righ-vay 1-4 follows the coast around the eastern tip of the island. There is another route to Fort Antonio, over the mountains, but it is not recomended. As shown on the standard highway map of the island, there is a small cove atout seven niles east of Port Antonio desiguated as "Blue Hole". The core is roughly 200 feet vide by 500 feet long, and completely protected from the open sea and weather. The cove is extremely deep, and is reported to have a sinizum depth of six feet at the entrance. lidal range appears to be very small, per-hape one to tro feet.

When I arrived at Blue Hole, which is about 2-1/2 hours by road from Kingston, Robin Voore was tot available: I went into Port Autonio and secured a roon at the Ponnie Vue Hotel. I returned to blue Hole about five o'clock and there wet Robin Voore. Wr. Voore owns most of the land surrounding Blue Hole, with the Jamaican goverment owning the balance. On the beach facing the sea, Koore has built and operates a bar-restaurant which he calls the Teahouse of the Blue Lagoon. Tais accounts for the confusion between Blue Hole and Blue Lagoon. Gu the side of the mountain descending to the water, Koore has tuilt and lives in a small studio apartment. He also owns another small house overlooking Blue Holie. Taishouse sas occupied teep-erarily by a girl who was introduced to me as his fiancee. Margot Palzer. and her mother, Rita Palner. They are supposed to return to their home in Vancouver, B.C., about the end of June.

About five o'clock I introduced myself to Moore as a friend of Antonio de la Carrera, and gave his the pete with the recognition symbol. We talked from five o'clock until about 7:30 at which tire ve had dinner aud parted until the next morning at 11:50.

I spent the night at the Bonnie Vue Hotel and noted in passing that a U. S. destroyer escort based at Guantanamo Bay was anchored in the harbor for the weekend, with the sailors being given liberty in Port Antonio. This seems to be a common occurrence, and could perhaps be a source of informa-tion about Cuban patrol practices along the south coast.

Saturday morning, 20 June, met Moore arain, and continued our discussion of the previous day. During our comersation, he introduced me to Fred Barrett, a native Jamaican (colored). who is in charge of the operation of the bar-restaurant. I left Mr. Voore and Blue Hole about 2:00 o'clock and drove to kingston, catching the 6:30 Fan American flight back to Miani, via Vontego Bay.

Following my two serious courersations with Woore. plus ey observations of the mau hinself, plus my reconnaissance of the site itself. I submit the following items of infomation as being of significance:.

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Robin Moore

a. Moore has just returned from Viet Nam where he participated in the combat operations of the American Special Forces in Viet Nam, after he had gone through about eight months of training at the Special Forces School at Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Sore understanding of Moore's personality may be ontained from reading an interview between him and the magazine U. S. News and World Report. which was published recently. and copy of which was left with Varia. Further understandings and impressions of Moore may be obtained from reading his previously published took about Jack Youngblood. an American who participated in the events leading to Castro's overthrow of Battista.

b. In my opinion. Moore has a burning desire to be known as a tough, two-fisted, rip roaring soldier of fortune. He has participated in real war in Viet Nam, and has received what is probably the best training in the world for guerilla fighters. Lamely. the C. S. Special Forces. Tois includes training as a parachutist. He is inclined to brag. and is probably inclined to interperate use of alcohol and women. and his judgement of important matters is probably immature. However. he definitely understands and is experienced in guerilla fighting, is experienced in military operations, and must surely understand military security.

c. He is definitely willing to help, but cannot contribute cash directly; is willing to furnish the use of the guest house on his property for limited periods of time. Is willing to participate and aid in an operation to land people on the south coast of Cuba, but is not willing to commit the we of his property and facilities as a staging area for resupply in the future.

d. Is willing to come to Miami, for conferences if his expenses are paid.

# Site Evaluation

a. Blue Hole is an excellent hartor; protected against all weather. and with six feet of water at the bar. Is surrounded by very steep slopes, heavily wooded. Dock facilities are presently very meager, but could be quickly and easily improved. No fuel for a boat is available at Blue Hole, aud at Fort Antonio (the closest source). the fuel available is diesel fuel or automotive gasoline; no marice white gasoline is available auywhere is the area. This is a most significant factor in selecting a suitable boat.

b. The nearest source of food and other supplies is Port Autonio; Fred Barrett. manager of the Blue Lagoon Club. orders and hauls supplies from Port Antonio constantly, and could deliver whatever supplies were desired. Firearms and explosives are not obtainable on the island. They would have to be smuggled in illegally.

c. A small station wagon is available for transportation, provided expenses are paid by users.

# Miscellaneous. Informatiou

a. A local man. George Munroe. is reported to be a very experienced small boat captain and one who has brought boats down from Miami


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

on five different occasions. He is reported to be available to serie as captain on a fishing boat, and to train a crew.

b. The S.S. Frangeline sails every two weeks from Viami direct to Port Antonio, and could be employed for the delivery of supplies and even a loat to Robin oore.

c. Fred Barreti, manager of the bar-restaurant. seems to be a very capable mau. and for an additional $10 per week added to his regular pay, would be quite willing to assist any operation.

d. A Mr. Anthony Gason. a retired British army colonel, is the Jamaica representative for TROJAN boats, at a place called Turtle Cove, between Port Antonio and Blue Hole.

e. The immigration chief for Jamaica is a man by the name of George Eubcuks. who is the former chief of police at Port Antonio: Moore claims that they are very close personal friends.

d. Moore is acquainted with a ran by the name of Mike Hedges, who is a nephew of Burke Hedges, the American who becaze Cuba's antassador to Chile some years ago. Mike lives in Kingston, and, if he is not a Battista sympathizer. might prove to be a very valuable connection. The fazily is re- ported to be quite wealthy, and would establish an excellent cover.

4. Operational Considerations

a. In order to avoid the use of significant names. I Justructed Voore to refer to Manolo as George King. and the operatios of landing him in Cuba would be referred to as operatiouning. The most likely scheme seems to be to establish a suitable boat al Blue Hole. with the cover story to be that it belongs to Gerican friends of Robin Moore. Housing is available locally for a limited cumber of Cutans, with Moore being able to accommodate up to six on his own property. The local boat captain, George Munroe. could be employed as captain initially, to train the Cuban crew in the local marine conditions, as well as serving as an effectite cover. In my opinion, it will not be too difficult for persons to enter Jamaica without difficulty, provided they know a certain minisum amount of English.

I think a suitable location could be found for radio transmission and reception facilities on the hills surrounding Blue Hole, but this would have to be examined by someone skilled in radio techniques. Mateo would be excellent.

In summary, I would say that Robin Moore and his property and! buildings at Blue Hole would serve as an excellent tase of operations. but that the boat necessary for the operation would have to be acquired and equipped in the states and shipped down there, except for the remote possibility that a suitable boat could be found in Kingston. I think a headquarters could be established at small cost through Moore's good offices, and I think that Rudy would be a good choice to coordinate the initial operations the re.

Jack Reed


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)