# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> [Figure: Secret/NoForn Continued Control box]

# OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

FROM: Mexico City

REPORT NO: 1H021-5348

REPORT MADE BY: Dolores R. CASSAVETIS:C30

NO. PAGES: 1

REPORT APPROVED BY: Willard C. CURTIS

NO. ENCLOSURES:

DATE OF REPORT: 15 December 1960

REFERENCES: 1H-M-5321

DISTRIBUTION:

By copy to:

Headquarters

1-EMB, PAO, MA, NA, AA, INS

Headquarters File No. 201-

Field File No. P-7035

1-LA

Orally to:

3-Files

JMPUCK

SOURCE CRYPTONYM: LIFEAT

ID NO. KRYPTON:☐ YES ☐ NO

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS:

SUBJECT: Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez

COMMENTS: Father Manuel PEREZ Alonso, Jesuit and contact of COS, was the source of field comment no. 2. According to Father PEREZ Alonso, CORTES was never a priest but had been a seminarian. (Father PEREZ Alonso has been conferring with Archbishop Miguel Dario Miranda, Primate of Mexico, regarding CORTES Hernandez and possible actions against him.

> [Figure: signature and date]

> [Figure: Secret/NoForn Continued Control box]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

EVALUATION OF SOURCE: A: Completely reliable. B: Usually reliable. C: Fairly reliable. D: Not usually reliable. E: Not reliable. (Applied to sources of doubtful honesty or loyalty, regardless of their competence). F: Reliability cannot be judged (Applied to untested or insufficiently correct).

APPRAISAL OF CONTENT: 1: Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources. 2: Probably true. 3: Possibly true. 4: Doubtful. 5: Probably false. 6: Cannot be judged. Documentary, Based on original document.

SECRET/NOFORN
CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY: Mexico/Cuba

REPORT NO. 1001-5348

SUBJECT: Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez

DATE OF REPORT 16 December 1960

NO. OF PAGES 1

REFERENCES 1001-5321

DATE OF 8 December 1960
INFO.

PLACE & Mexico, Mexico City (8 December 1960)

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE: Person with good connections in the Cuban Embassy (3). Appraisal of Content: 2

4. On 8 December 1960 Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez who represents himself as a priest[^1] told Jose Antonio PORTUONDO Valdor, Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, that he had information that "the thing they were working on" had gotten underway and had produced a tremendous reaction in Cuba.[^2] He said that a friend, who is Roman Catholic but very liberal, had returned from a visit to Cuba, where he said the Knights of Columbus were pretty well entrenched. For this reason, CORTES said he felt it would be necessary to "take the bull by the horns" and begin things or the Knights of Columbus would gain the advantage.

2. PORTUONDO said that the bombing of the church of Father BOZA in Cuba had definitely been an act of "auto-agression" and was clumsily done. He said a red flag with hammer and sickle was found in the debris. PORTUONDO told CORTES that Carlos OLIVARES, Under-secretary of Foreign Affairs, had not said any-thing, but, since he, PORTUONDO, was going to Cuba at the end of December, he believed that OLIVARES would wait until his visit.[^3]

3. CORTES said that he would like to go to Cuba and see for himself how things were going.

Field Comments

1. According to an untested source in the Roman Catholic Church, CORTES Hernandez was never a priest. It was previously reported that Atisbos, Mexico City newspaper, had reported that CORTES was a Catholic priest and a member of the Jesuit order until 1950 when he left the order because of his "rebellious and anarchic spirit".

2. It is believed that CORTES Hernandez, who belongs to a schismatic Catholic church, called the Mexican Apostolic Catholic Church, is interested in establishing a schismatic church in Cuba.

3. Source Comment. PORTUONDO's remark about OLIVARES came after he and CORTES had been discussing German Lence, Castrista priest who has been stopped by episcopal sanction from his ministry in Oriente province.

SECRET/NOFORN
CONTINUED CONTROL

[^1]: priest
[^2]: He said that a friend
[^3]: 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# APPRAISAL OF CONTENT

1. Confirmed by other independent and reliable sources.

Kiisa. Cannot be judged. Documentary, Based on original document.

# SECRET/NOFORN

CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRYMexico/Cuba

REPORT NO. 1MM-5348

SUBJECT Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez

DATE OF REPORT 16 December 1960

NO. OF PAGES 1

REFERENCES 1MM-5321

DATE OF December 1960

INFO.

PLACE & Mexico, Mexico City (8 December 1960)

DATE ACQ.

SOURCE EVALUATIONS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE. NOTE FOREGOING EXPLANATION.

SOURCE: Person with good connections in the Cuban Embassy (B). Appraisal of Content: 2

1. On 8 December 1960 Jose Xavier CORTES Hernandez who represents himself as a priest, told Jose Antonio PORTUONDO Valdor, Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, that he had information that "the thing they were working on" had gotten underway and had produced a tremendous reaction in Cuba. He said that a friend, who is Roman Catholic but very liberal, had returned from a visit to Cuba, where he said the Knights of Columbus were pretty well entrenched. For this reason, CORTES said he felt it would be necessary to "take the bull by the horns" and begin things or the Knights of Columbus would gain the advantage.

2. PORTUONDO said that the bombing of the church of Father BOZA in Cuba had definitely been an act of "auto-agression" and was clumsily done. He said a red flag with hammer and sickle was found in the debris. PORTUONDO told CORTES that Carlos OLIVARES, Under-secretary of Foreign Affairs, had not said anything, but, since he, PORTUONDO, was going to Cuba at the end of December, he believed that OLIVARES would wait until his visit.

3. CORTES said that he would like to go to Cuba and see for himself how things were going.

## Field Comments

1. According to an untested source in the Roman Catholic Church, CORTES Hernandez was never a priest. It was previously reported that Atisbos, Mexico City newspaper, had reported that CORTES was a Catholic priest and a member of the Jesuit order until 1950 when he left the order because of his "rebellious and anarchic spirit".

2. It is believed that CORTES Hernandez, who belongs to a schismatic Catholic church, called the Mexican Apostolic Catholic Church, is interested in establishing a schismatic church in Cuba.

3. Source Comment. PORTUONDO's remark about OLIVARES came after he and CORTES had been discussing German Lence, Castrista priest who has been stopped by episcopal sanction from his ministry in Oriente province.

DISTRIBUTION

SECRET/NOFORN

CONTINUED CONTROL

16 Dec60


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)