2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEDED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: PERMINDEX CORP.
JOD DOCUMENTS

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: DCD

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED, OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Permindex Corporation.

CONE 359

PYOR CITE ΤΑ 47061

TAME FROM SUFFORT (CRANT)

CASE 31735 RFT 31765, REOUR VA 46089 P

CAN YOU GIVE US ANY IDEA OF WHEN AND IF WE WILL GET A D ROT D AND

OFT 3 REPORT ON PERMINDEY AND WORLD TRADE CENTER?

F-776.9

A-59621

57621


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

F 79691

Chief, New York Office

Chief, Contact Division (Support)

New Case 31785

3-796 77

30 November 1959

CASE 8J

ues-59621

1. Commercial staff has requested a Dun & Bradstreet report on *Filistea*, a swiss Corporation Registered in Bern, Jan 1956, and *Allistea* formed in Rome, Centro Mondiale Commerciale (World trade center). You are advised that Mr. Verano Lagy, former Prime Minister of Hungary, is president of Paralodex. 17-79697.

2. Attached, is outline of information desired on the two organizations.

If the D & D report does not contain the financial information desired,
would you please try to obtain this information through your bank sources.

Attachment index
Libran:ge
cci Index

E. M. AIRCRAFT

copy - 59621

D'


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

JA CITI YORK 9195

UPPORT (CHAT) FROM DARE

CASE 51785 - 51755 - PERMINDEY

CASE (?)

1. EE THE TWO PAPERS FOR BACKGROUND

A) N.Y. TIMES 31 AUGUST 1959 - 31 AUGUST 1959

B) DAILY AMERICAN, ROME & ROME, 9-15 NOV 1958 (9-15 NOV 1958)

2. ONE OF DIRECTOR: L’AMICO MANDEL-MANTELLO & ENRICO MANDEL-MANTELLO WAS RECENTLY IN US & EUROPE, EXPECT TO BE BACK TO N.Y.C. ABOUT 17 JAN 1963 & 17 JAN 1962. HE IS ONE OF DIRECTOR AND ALSO DESCRIBED AT IN CHARGE OF ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS.

3. ADDRESS: DUFOURSTR 11, BASEL & DUFOURSTR 11, BASELN

CAPITAL - I APT 1 MILLION FRENCH FRANCS

OFFICER - DR. FERENC NAGY & DR. FERENC NAGY, PRESIDENT

FRITZ CHURCH & FRITZ CHURCH, V.P.

DR. ERNST J. INFELD & DR. ERNST W. INFELD, DELEGATE

DR. ERNST FEISST & DR. ERNST FEISST


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

2. INT FELLET FOLL.

3. TO TAEL IN 1956 & 1956.

4. TALY PLA: TO CPIA OFFICE IN JAN 1963 - JAN 1963.

5. WILL TRY TO COTAL: MORE DETAIL LATER.
   LITTLE LEES AVAILABLE .04.

6. SHALL WE END ANY REPORT TO.

SOURCE: ALFRED HASTH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

Chief, DD/S-CM

ATTN: Mr. Charles P. White

Chief, Contact Division, CO

## S-79677

## H. 59621

Peraindex, Ltd and World Trade Center

23 December 1959

**REF**: Your memorandum dated 23 Nov 1959 - CD/00 Case 31785

1.  As you were previously advised, Dun & Bradstreet had no available information on either of the subject concerned. However, a bank source of this office has provided the following preliminary information:

2.  For background our source suggested that we refer to the New York Times, 31 August 1959 and the Daily American, Rome, 9-10 November 1958. One of the directors, also described as being in charge of administrative affairs, Enrico Mandel-Mantello, was recently in the US and expects to return to New York City about 17 Jan 1960.

## S-79699

## S-79699

## S-79699

3.  The address of Peraindex is Dufourstr 11, Basel (office transferred from Born to Basel in 1956). They plan to open a New York City office in January 1960. Capital: One million French France. Officers: Dr. Ferenc Nagy, President; Fritz Schurch, Vice President; Dr. Ernst W. Infeld, Delegate; Dr. Ernst Felest; Dr. Ernst Pollender.

## S-79699

## S-29699

4.  We will forward additional information as it becomes available. We are also trying to obtain information from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and National Association of Manufacturers.

## A-51942

5.  If you have any questions please contact Lillian I. Grant, extension 2258.

R. M. ASHCRAFT

LIGrant/ret
cci: Index

Copy filed 59621

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Chief, DD/3-C4
ATTN: Mr. Charles P. White

Chief, Contact Division, 00
S-77679

FERREX, Ltd. and World Trade Center

REF:
Your memorandum dated 23 November 1959, CD/00 Case 31785

22 January 1960.

1.  Attached for your retention is a brochure on subject organizations which was received by National Association of Manufacturers about early November 1959.

2.  FAN also suggested that additional information might be obtained from Lloyd McMahon, now Federal Judge of Southern District Court, New York City, who was formerly General Counsel for FERREX, Ltd. If you wish our New York Office to pursue this lead, please let us know.

3.  As to believe Mr. Crowley advised you, the Foreign Department of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce does not maintain records of individual foreign companies. C of C suggested that the World Trade Division, Dept. of Commerce might have some information which we presume you have already checked out.

4.  Please advise Lillian I. Grant, CD/00, Support Branch, extension 2268, of further wishes concerning this subject.

Z. M. ASHCRAFT

Attachment

LiGrant/fet
cc: Index

Copies filed in above jackets


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)