# 104-10516-10348 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM:

ACTION: 3

INFO: L, DDS 4, CA/RED, CA/PROP, CA/C 4, CI/OPS/CI/IC 2, FI/0, FI/INT 2, AE/4, WE/AH4, CI/VI/2, AD/CG, AC/W, AU,

S E C R E T

DATE: DEC 21 0142 63

INFO HAV, FILE MEAN-4355

INTEL TYPIC CURION

SUPDATA SOURCE DESTONE FROM ITALINA AND FRENCH AMBASSADORS TO CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERTS

FILED 21/8235

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEN HAM-8135 SUBJECT EFFORTS OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMERCIAL BARTER WITH WEST

EUROPEAN CONTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY, 20 DEC 63

AP? 3 SOURCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO CUBA WHERE, HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.

TO DECRIPTION : OF THE ATTACH
TO PORT OA
PLACE OF THE ACI ON UND

TOCS

PRECEDENCE

ROUTINE
PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SE C R E T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# INFORMATION REPORT!

COUNTRY

SECRET

DATE OF
BDO.
PLACE &
DATE ACO.
ABPRAISAL

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION:
SOURCE

1. THE CUBAN GOVERIMENT HAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUZAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN TRADE IS TRYING TO INTEREST/WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE IN COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUCAR CROP HARVEST, IN MARCH 1964, "WHEN THE COSODITY IS HORVALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUZAN CEFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT DISCOUNT PRICES.

2. IN ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO COTAIN

SECRET

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT

![photo of a stamp saying NO D 17 TOPO BADES PLEAS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

FERTILIZER, TRANSPORTATION, FACILITIES, AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS IN EXCHANGE FOR SUGAR ON A STRAIGHT BARTER DEAL. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT EXPECTS A SUGAR CROP IN 1964 WHICH, IF SOLD AT THE AVERAGE WORLD PRICE OF 8 CENT A POUND (US CURRENCY), SHOULD PRODUCE ABOUT 8.3 MILLION DOLLARS (US) IN CREDITS.

3. FIELD COMMENT. SOURCE SAID THAT EXAMINATION OF THE CROP CONFIRMS THAT IT IS ONE OF THE BEST CUBA HAS HAD IN YEARS.

4. FIELD DISSEM STATE ECON CINCSO.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)