14-00000
104-10177-10217
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET


FASE 31
SECRET 2213222 AF 77 STAFF
CIJE CARACAS 32956
TO: DIRECTOR.
KNINTEL RYBA PLYOSEFDELL KOXER
LAVOCA FROM

1. 15 WP, 7 MARCH 1977 HS. Co
   ASSIETAT J.S. 11. AR THE 210 ICT OF POLAND
   E. LACE BARCELO ASSISTANT US AT FORTE

MS TRICT OF COLOCA, T WITH REPSENTATICS OF
REQUESTED WHATEVER LEADS AND INFORMATION VELIVE
AGENCIES COULD PROVIDE CA ANY CONECTION BETWEEN ORLANDO 2058
AVILA AND THE ASSASSINATION OF FORMER CHILEAN AMBASSADOR AND
CABINET MINISTER ORLANDO LETELIER.

2. ARECARLET STED ON 29 PRIL HAT ; CACIA,
   CHIEF OF OPERATIONS OF AD LIND FAT
   EXPRESSE) DISSATISFACTION WITH THE LACK OF ASIA TO
   HIMATE INVESTICATE OF THE LECLI
   OFFICIALS WERE SURPRISE AND WAPPY WI
   STATEMENT, SINCE CISIF FFICIALS HAD EXTENDED SES,
   COUPE ATION, ME AND FORMATION TO FAOPPER CLASS IT IN

SECRET

RICARDO MORALES/201


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CARACAS. DISIP OFFICIALS HAD FACILITATED PROFES INTERVIEW AND DEBRIEFING OF ORLANDO BOSCH AND THEY HAD PROVIDED PROPER WITH
ONE PEICE OF EVIDENCE WHICH PROPPER APPARENTLY WAS SEEKING
EAGERLY. A MAP OF THE UNITED STATES DELINEATING AREAS OF
RESPONSIBILITY TO INDICATE THAT GUILLERMO NOVO AND IGNACIO.
NOVO, CUBAN EXILES, ARE TO HAVE JURISDICTION FOR CUBAN EXILE
ACTIVITY IN WASHINGTON, D.C., WHERE THE CUBAN AMERICAN FOUNDATION
OCCURRED. PROPPER IS CONCERNED THAT A MAP INDICATING AREAS OF
RESPONSIBILITIES WOULD DISCLOSE SOMEONE ELSE WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR
THAT AREA, AS THE NOVO BROTHERS WERE PROTECTOR'S TIME EXECUTOR.
3. GARCIA ALSO SAID THAT RICARDO MORALES STAFF MEMBER
DISIP OFFICIAL, HAD BEEN SUMMONED BY PROPPER TO APPEAR IN COURT AS
A WITNESS. MORALES WAS CONCERNED THAT ONCE WITHIN THE JURISDICTION
OF THE U.S. COURTS, HE COULD BE CHARGED WITH UNSPECIFIED VIOLATIONS.
THUS, MORALES, WHO IS IN THE U.S., HAD GONE INTO HIDING.
WE ARE LENDING THIS INFORMATION VIA THIS CHANNEL BECAUSE OF POSSIBLE SENSITIVITY CON-
CERNING REFERENCE TO ALLEGED ACTIVITIES OF A.N.R.S
OFFICIALLY IF WE DO NOT PERCEIVE ANY SUCH SENSA
TIVITY, WE OF COURSE HAVE NO OBJECTION TO REMOVAL OF THIS CABLE.
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

T 615550

CLASS

TOP0R/AVISA MAY 77

FROM THE FLVCADET CATEGORY.

5. FILE: 75-2-20/3, 200-12-200/1. E2. IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FORM 30200
7.71 MFG 7.78

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

TOTAL COPIES 24
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIBITED

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

4LA 8

RF. FILE. VR (ilims, 2004, 914,

4EPSIEG2

ACTION

T 812745 EI4826

PAGE 21

IN 266922

TOR:2922342 APR 77

CARA 32949

SECRET 2922252 APR 77 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 32949

DOC. MICRO. SER.

25 02 1977

MICROFILMED

TO: DIRECTOR, LA/MIAMI

RYBAT WNINTEL REAM

1. ON 28 APRIL 1977 WKDIET-5 REPORTED THAT RICARDO
   MORALES NAVARRETE (SUBJECT OF 201-2285923), AKA
   "EL MONO", IS RUMORED TO HAVE KILLED IN MIAMI A CUBAN
   EXILE BY THE NAME OF ROBERTO PARSONS. WKDIET-5
   SAYS THAT PARSONS WORKED FOR BKHERALD AND UNDERTOOK
   SEVERAL CLANDESTINE TRIPS TO CUBA. HE SAID AT TIMES PARSONS
   HELPED GET PEOPLE OUT OF CUBA FOR A PRICE. PARSONS HAS
   BEEN MISSING SINCE DECEMBER 1976. THE EXACT REASON FOR
   HIS ALLEGED MURDER IS UNKNOWN.

2. FOLLOWING ARE TRACES ON ROBERTO PARSONS: ACCORDING
   TO JMWAVE-1302, 16 FEBRUARY 1968, AN AMCLEVE-15
   MIAMI CONTACT WAS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ROBERTO PARSONS
   RAMIREZ, BORN 12 JULY 1930 IN GUANTANAMO. PARSONS WAS A
   BKHERALD AGENT FROM 1965 THROUGH 1967 WHEN HE WAS TERMINATED
   ON 30 NOVEMBER WITHOUT PREJUDICE. HE WAS USED IN EXFILTRATION
   AND INFILTRATION OPERATIONS AND OCCASIONALLY REPORTED GRATUITOUSLY

SECRET

RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY:
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED:
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED:
ACTION UNIT:
FILE VR 177

T 812745 E1A828 PAGE 22-22 IN 266922
TOR: 2922342 APR 77 CARA 32949

ON THE DSE AND DGI.

3. INDEX PARSONS. FILE: 75-120-28-201-0285923.

E2. IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# The Incident

by Taylor Branch and John Rothchild

How two mild-mannered reporters, on the trail of a Washington bomber, landed in Caracas and ran afoul of the Venezuelan secret service, warring Cuban terrorists, the Miami police, the State Department, the C.I.A., the F.B.I.. and the most dangerous man alive-all this, and their mothers didn't know a damn thing about it

Are There Pay Phones in Caracas?

They are on the Pan Am night flight to Caracas, three hours away from at least a hundred murder stories and a lot of steaming intrigue.

"What are our chances of getting through this alive?" asks Rothchild.

"Well, that all depends on who you talk to and how paranoid they are," says Branch. "Our friends in Washington used to be simple journalists and policy analysts. Now they are three-pay-phone men. That means you can't call them without using three pay phones. You call them up and all they'll say is 'phone number ore.' Then they go to pay phone number one and you call them again. Then they ask you for the number of another pay phone near yours, and they call you on that one."

"What do you talk about?".

"Things like pay phones and letter bombs and wheth- er the Feds can be trusted. The last time I called they told me we would be walking into four nests of known killers: the Cuban exiles in Venezuela, the Venezuelan secret police, the C.I.A. and the Chilean-secret police."

"Is that true?"

"Well, it's true that all those people are down there," Branch says, "but I don't think they would be after us."

Rothchild does not look reassured. He does not like the way Branch reels off the life histories of all the C.I.A. Cubans he has known, especially since the point is always that the situation is too complicated for words. "Tell me," Rothchild says gravely, "did you tell your mother you were going to Venezuela?"

Branch squirms at the cruel question. He wants to appear as knowledgeable and confident as possible, be- cause he has dragged Rothchild into this adventure on less than a day's notice. "No, I didn't teil her," he ad- mits. "It's too complicated. But I think we'll only have one point of danger."

"When's the point of danger?"

"Well, we may get into the prison and get our an- swers," Branch replies, "or we may get them from peo- ple in the Venezuelan government. Either way, we'll know who did the murders and who paid the killers and what other murders they've done. That's what we hope, anyway. If we get that information, we'll be hot antil we get rid of it. We'll have to phone it out of

continued


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Orlando Bosck Ricardo Morales
Branch looks out the airplane window and pictures Orlando Letelier lying in the middle of Massachusetts Avenue, his legs blown off at the thigh, his torso pulverized, detectives all around. On the curb nearby sat his passenger Ronni Moffitt, her eyes frozen, holding her throat. The bomb in Letelier's car had blown a sliver of metal through Ronni Moffitt's carotid artery, and she was drowning in her own blood. Her husband sat nearby, suffering from shock, watching his wife die. She was twenty-five. The killers were the kind of people who would machine-gun a whole crowd of people in a public square just to hit their mark. They wouldn't care about the others. Ronni Moffitt could just as easily have been half the people Branch knew in Washington. The next day Jerry Ford rode right over the bloody spots in the road on his way to a reception for the president of Liberia; he never said a word about Washington's first gangland-style political assassination. Unwise to talk about it, especially if the force behind the murders is most likely the government of Chile. The military junta there overthrew Salvador Allende with a big boost from the CIA, which is still thick as thieves with the generals. Letelier was ambassador to the United States under Allende, then foreign affairs minister, interior minister and defense minister. He had been jailed and tortured by the generals after the coup, then, a year later, deported, and in September of last year he was stripped of his citizenship.
From the day of the murder, Branch had been pondering the bomb he thought was used on Letelier-C4, a white, odorless dough resembling Silly Putty. Branch had heard many Cubans tell tales about C-4 and its predecessor, C-3. It was the C.I.A.'s favorite substance for sabotage in the war against Castro, and thousands of Cubans were trained in its use. Branch had not been surprised when evidence came out that Cuban exiles might have pulled the Letelier job, but he was surprised by tips he received that they had also killed hundreds of others on a big spree in the Caribbean. God, there is something big going on, he had thought. And all his sources and his instincts told him the answers were in Venezuela, of all places.
It was now October 21, one month to the day since the Letelier murder.
"So you decided to take a little trip to Caracas too, I guess." It is Hilda I n, a reporter for *The Alami News*, standing in the aisle, looking down at us. She is a specialist on Latin terrorism in Miami.
"Looks like it," says Branch, shrugging. So much for the secret trip. Yet he is inclined to trust Inclán, even though he an! Rothchild hal met her only that day, while going through clips at the morgue of the News. The three work out a way to make contact in Caracas. Branch is embarrassed at being a little reserved. Inclán is candid, her face cheerful and open.
Inclán leans over and whispers, "Listen, I think you should be careful. There's something strenge going on. This flight is crawling with cops and prosecutors from Miami."
Branch and Rothchild turn their heads in unison, and their necks sink down into their shoulders. There are two young Latin men in the back with neatly trimmed beards, unisex hairdos and brightly colored shirts. There are several men in the front who do not look like ordinary passengers. Rothchild decides there might not be any ordinary passengers.
"What are they doing here?" Branch asks bluntly.
"Who knows?" says Inclán. "I know these guys from Miami. They give me tips sometimes. But now they aren't giving me the time of day. I don't understand them, so I'm going to act just like they are. I don't think you should let them in on what you're up to, either."
"Those cops are Cubans, aren't they?" Branch asks. Inclán nods. Branch worries. Cubans on the Miami police force are a strange lot, he has heard. The cops want to infiltrate Cuban terrorist groups and drug-running organizations, but sometimes it turns out that the terrorists and drug runners are infiltrating the cops.
Branch and Rothchild exchange signs of bewilderment as Inclán drifts back to her seat. "Jesus Christ,

> [Figure] Orlando Letelier's bombed car, Washington, D.C.
> The photograph shows the wreckage of a car after the bombing that killed Orlando Letelier in Washington D.C. The car is severely damaged, with debris scattered around it. Firemen are present at the scene, examining the remains and cleaning up.
> continued


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

John," Branch mutters. "I figured we'd be in for some
scrapes, but I never thought it would start before we
even got there." Then he's all business. "I've got to
give you a quick briefing on cur main man while we
have the chance. We may not have as much leisure
time as we expected."

Branch pulls down their dinner trays and spreads out
a pile of notes and news clippings. Then he pulls out a
police mug shot. "Meet Orlando Bosch," he says.
Rothchild stares incredulously at a porcine Cuban
man with a thin moustache and thick lips. "He looks
like the headmaster of a military school."

"I know," Branch says, "but he's a killer. He's also
a pediatrician. This whole thing's like that-yin and
yang, Boston Strangler and Mad Hatter all mixed up."
Branch eyes the mass of clippings and notes, wonder-
ing where to begin. "It would take all night to go
through what I've heard about Bosch, so I'll get you
up to Letelier as quick as I can for now. The back
ground is simple: Bosch has been a political terrorist
what they call an action man ever since the late For-
ties in Cuba. He worked for Castro, then for the C.I.A.,
and then he denounced the C.I.A. He has been an anti-
Castro outlaw since the mid-Sixties, always telling the
Miami Cubans not to trust the C.I.A. in their war
against Castro. Now most of the hard-line Cubans be-
lieve him. Bosch is the patriarch of Cuban terrorism."

Branch pauses, then flips briskly through the clip-
pings. "Bosch got arrested and indicted pretty regular
ly all through the Sixties. He usually got of. The wit-
nesses against him tended to sweat a lot and forget
things on the stand, if they even showed up. In gen-
eral, Bosch had a threefold operation: first, political
terror against Castro sympathizers; second, ordinary
crimes like extortion from rich people and companies
to finance the political terror; and third, all kinds of
wars and feuds with his terrorist rivals. Finally, Bosch
got nailed in 1968 for shelling a Polish freighter in

> [Figure: A photo of John Rothchild, Hilda Inclán, and Taylor Branch.]
> John Kothchild
> Hilda Inción
> Taylor Branch

Miami harbor. He got ten years, but he was paroled
in 1972. That brings us to his international period."
Branch picks up one particular clip and holds it in
readiness. "Bosch went underground two years after
his parole and the pace of Miami bombings escalated.
So did terrorist bombings against Castro's embassies
all over the world. Then, in 1974, important Cubans
started getting knocked off in gangland-style murders.
A lot of groups, including Bosch's, took credit for
them. The word was that C.I.A. stooges were being
eliminated. Bosch became a phantom. Mysterious fig-
ures with names like Ernesto would pop up in the Mi-
ami press to speak for him. Here's a Miami News clip
from this period. It's headlined 'Bosch Declares War
on Castro.' Hilda wrote it. She's the last American re-
porter to interview Bosch. Shortly after it came out,
Bosch slipped out of the country."

While Rothchild studies the clips, Branch continues,
"He got arrested in Venezuela about two years ago.
The Justice Department decided not to ask for his re-
turn to the United States despite all he's wanted for.
That's weird. Then the Venezuelans turned him loose
and he left with a bunch of Chilean bodyguards and a
big pile of money. I heard all kinds of stories about
Fosch being down in Chile with the Pinochet junta
there, bargaining. Now the stories jump to February
of last year, when Bosch got arrested in Costa Rica
right before Kissinger visited.. The rumor is that he
was plotting to assassinate Kissinger. Bosch got out
of Costa Rica somebow, and pretty soon there was a
secret feeting in the Dominican Republic of all the
major Cuban terrorist groups, which the Dominicans
allowed, of course. There was a negotiated truce, and
the terrorists united under Bosch in an umbrella group
called CORU, supposedly with the support of several
juntas in Latin America.

"Now in the last month there has been the Letelier
mürder," Branch continues grimly. "The terrorists
showed that they were not afraid to kill in the United
States, right-in the capital. They have even threstened
to kill one of the F.R.I. agents on the Letelier case.
And his flancée. The anonymous threats show they
have collected a lot of intelligence about the agent's
life. The F.B.I. is upset. Then, two weeks after Letelier
was killed, terrorists blew up a Cuban plane near Rar-:
bados, killing seventy-three people. Castro blamed the
C.I.A. and canceled the anti-skyjacking treaty. The
terrorists loved it: Castro and the Americans getting

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

"And you're Raúl." Er. gives him a limp hand- shake and stumps down in his seat. Hilda Inclán shakes her head and walks off.

"Who's Raúl" asks Rothchild.

"He's Rolando Martinez' son-in-law. One of the Wa- i spent a lot of time with him in Miami."

mad at each other. Then Bosch got ar ed in Vene- zuela again, along with a whole bunch of Cuban exiles,

Stories have been seeping out in the Venezuelan press linking Bosch with both Letelier and the Cuban plane. I picked up similar stories in Miami. My sources there tell me the Cubans in jail are almost all former CIA men, F.B.I. informants and a few veterans of the Ven- ezuelan secret police, the DISIP. Some people say DISIP has tortured the hell out of these guys, but other people say DISIP is in bed with thein-holding them under protective custody till the heat blows over. It's the biggest damn mess you ever saw."

"What's so bad about that?" asks Rothchild.

"I don't know. It's just that he probably knows who my Cuban contacts are, and I don't know what the hell he's up to. You see, sonic of the people who have been telling me about the terrorists are right-wingers and some of them are left-wingers. I don't care about any thing except the Letelier murder, but I think it would be healthy for us if we could keep the two groups separate. The only way we can do that is to stay kind of incognito."

"You folks wouldn't mind telling me who you are and what you're up to, would you?"

Rothchild and Branch look up at the man standing in the aisle. He wears a leisure suit with a flashy shirt opened to his sternum, showing a lot of tan and some tufted chest hair.

"Well," says Branch, "I'm not sure. What are you doing? We're just thinking about racetracks and Cu- bans and stuff like that."

"You're doing great so far," Rothchild says. His mind has been wandering over the Bosch briefing. "What makes you think we can get into the prison to see Bosch and his friends?" he asks. "And why would they want to talk to us?"

"Corse on now. You can tell me," the man urges.

"Don't tell him anything," says Hilda Inclán from behind. She is laughing as if it were a game, but her eves signal a warning.

Branch is way off-balance. "I'll take the fifth. Why don't we start with you?"

"It's a long shot," Branch answers. "But Bosch is in a tough spot. The Castro government wants him, and Bosch knows that would mean curtains for him. He also knows that he could get killed any day in Vene zuela by either his friends or his enemies. He may fig ure that his best chance to survive is to come to the United States. What we hope is that he wants to get some of his story out in the American press to force the government to turn the screws and get him back in the States. That's what I hear from some of our Vene- zuelan contacts. I don't know if it's true, but they are pretty high up. Now even if we can't talk to Bosch and the other prisoners directly, we might get stuff indi- rectly from the Venezuelans."

"Okay," says the man, smiling. "I'll play it your way, friend. My name's George Yoss. I'm an assistant state's attorney out of Miami." He flashes an ID card.

Branch and Rothchild can't believe it. He seems more like a condominium salesman who wishes he could be a golf pro. "Is that right, Hilda?" Branch asks.

"What happens if all the Venezuelan contacts turn out to be flaky?"

"Yeah, but he's being a bad boy tonight," she re- plies "Tell him to mind his own business, whatever that is."

"Then we'll just have to poke around," says Branch. "I have a lot of names. There's only one guy I know down here personally. He's a Cuban named Ricardo Morales. I interviewed him back in 1971, just before he came to Venezuela. People in Miami tell me he's way up high in the DISIP, the secret police. I don't know what he's doing now, but he might be a good fallback if nothing else works out."

"Okay," says Yoss, "I'm going to give you one more chance. I know you're a journalist. Why don't we start with who you work for?"

Branch looks down and notices that his hands have been covering up the news clippings unconsciously. These gave me away, eh?" he says weakly. "I'll tell you what, You've got me a little paranoid. Why don't you give me the name of your hotel and I'll call you when we get our feet on the ground? We can talk this over."

Rothchild is encouraged. At least Branch knows one real person. "What's he like?"

"He's one of the most cynical people I've ever met," Branch replies, "but I liked him anyway. He doesn't have any illusions about the business he's in, and he makes fun of all the people who do. Ricardo is an old operator, even though he's only in his late thirties. He worked for Castro's secret police. Then he worked for the C.I.A. as an explosives expert. He fought for the Agency in the Congo in the mid-Sixties, and then be came an F.B.I. informant. He's the guy who got Bosch convicted in 1969. Small world, isn't it? lle surfaced in court with everything on tape. Then all hell broke loose. Morales' car was blown up. He survived but blamed Bosch for trying to kill him. Morales himself was indicted for first-degree murder, but he got off. He's a survivor if there ever was one."

"Why don't we start with who you work for?" Yoss persists. He is still kidding, but there is an edge to it. You may need me down here. You never know. This is a strange country and you guys could find yourselves on the next plane out. I'll give you one more chance."

"I think I'll lay low for the moment," Branch says. Yoss makes a few more thrusts, then saunters off.

"Maybe I was too set on getting into the country on the sly," Branch says. "That sure didn't work out. This tiger's like a goddamn convention! Tell me, Hilda. None of the Cuban cops is named Raúl Diaz, I hope?"

"So he must hate Bosch, then," says Rothchild.

"Well, yes," saya Branch. cochaned

"That's Diaz right behind you," she replies.

"Oh, shit!" says Branch. He turns slowly in his seat and ends himself staring at one of the handsome Cubans

"You must be Taylor Branch," Raúl Diaz says with a saila


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

( "It sounds like Bosch and Storales have tried hard enough to kill each other." Brauch hesi-
Bates and then decides not to tell Koth- child that some of the old C.L.A. Cutans in Miami believe Bosch and Morales have patched things up. Branch does not believe it and it would make things too gnaried. "It's amazing that the Venezue lans would have a guy like Morales high up in their security apparatus," he says absentmindedly-I mean he's a Cuban, and he has worked for Castro, the C.L.A., and the F.B.I., and he's a veteran of gangland-type warfare. It's like tinding a West German high up in the CI.A. and then discovering that he has also worked for the KGB and the Shah of fran. But from what I hear, that's a pretty com- mon background to have down here. There are Cubans all over Latin Amer- ica."

Branch begins packing up the news- clips. "I'm paranoid as hell about this plane," he says. "We're supposed to get a call at the hotel around midnight That gives us an hour to get through customs and get settled. I want to hustle away from these guys and make sure we're on time."

### A Greeting from Rómulo

Rothchild and Inclán notice a huddle of shady five-footers lurking in a dark corner beside the airport entrance. They must be a Venezuelan tour group, Rothchild thinks, waiting for a bargain Aight out of the country. I'm not going to get paranoid about everything I see. But the group stares at the passen- gers; their suits blend so well into the shadows that all you see are their mir- ror sunglasses. They look like a dis- play of Foster Grants at the back of an unlighted drugstore.

They stop looking only when the Miami assistant state's attorneya and cops; the same ones who have been bugging Branch on the plane, go over and give some of the men in the shad- ows warm, Latin embraces. Inclán thinks it is a meeting between the Mi- ami Jaw-enforcement contingent and the Venezuelan secret police. She catches up in the line and says she has recognized one of the people in the po lice huddle as Ricardo Morales, the mysterious Cuban who is supposed to be Branch's fallback contact in Caracas, Branch is stunned. First he is read ing clips about Cubans and cops, and the Cubans and cops start fingering him on the airplane. Now Morales.

"Give me your papers and follow me!" a voice booms suddenly. It bois longs to a man in a turtleneck sweater and leather jacket. A flunky moves next to each reporter in the line. There is nothing to do but hand over the pass ports and follow.

Turtleneck and his gavig herd the re- porters ers into a special room at the back of the airport. He disappears into an- other office, leaving them alone with an old man seated behind a desk. Thero is furious typing coming from the adja- cent roors into which Turtienerk has disappeared. Ilis Munkies keep running back and forth from one room to the other.

In about ten minutes, Turtleneck ro turns aral hands each of the reporters a *citación*-in triphrate. Rothchuid, trans- lating for Branch, doesn't remember the legal definition of the word *cita- ción*. He dors, however, recognize a word farther down in the document- *edreel*. *Carcel* means jail The reporters are being sammoned to attend some kind of inerting in a sinister-sounding room, D-034, in a building somewhere in Caracas at nine a.m. the following day. The letterhead belongs to DISIP.

Turtleneck kerps saying it is all rou- tine-just sign the *citación* and every- body can get a good night's sleep. While Rothchild struggles to understand the fine print, Inclán tells him she thinks it might be a mistake to acknowledge the *stimmons*. It might conceivably be con- strued as an admission of something, and the reporters don't know what it is for. Inclán decides to try an offensive to get information. She whips out her notebook as if to write a trafic ticket and asks Türtleneck what his name is. He doesn't answer. She repeats the question and finally he mumbles, "In- spector Romulo,"

"That's all there is to it?"

"Yeah. Just Rómulo."

"Who ordered you to do this?"

"I don't know. I can't say. It's just a procedure."

"Why is this happening to us?"

"It is so because it is so."

Inclán writes that down.

Branch, whose rudimentary knowl. edge of Spanish often led him to offend the Cuban community in Miami-where he would mean to say "what a grand wedding this is" and end up saying "what tremendous tits you have"-is getting a headache trying to keep up with the conversation. "Isn't there somebody who speaks English here?" he keeps asking.

"That's all right," says Rothchild. "The guy isn't saying a damn thing in Spanish, either." Inclán agrees.

The reporters get nowhere. Police keep circling, and an evasive Rómulo keeps cracking his knuckles, pacing back and forth between rooms, thrust ing pens into the reporters' harids like a door-to-door salesman pushing maga zine subscriptions. Inclán asks him if they will go to jail for not signing. Romulo says, "No, you won't go to jail for that, and I don't care what you do. My orders were to hand you this *ci-* *tación*, and that I have done. The rest entirely up to you."

Inclán decides to accept the summons but not to sign it, based on Rómulo's assertion that it remains in force no matter what. Branch and Rothebild go along after a brief huddle. Romulo is definitely peeved. He hands each of them a summons in an envelope and tells them to leave.

"I don't understand how they picked us out," says Inclán in the cab. "Es- pecially you, John. You're not even coming as a reporter. They couldn't have gotten us off our documents." The logical explanation is that some one on the plans tipped off the Vene- zuelans. But why?

Branch thrushes around in his spy world for answers. Nothing seems to fit. The three of then theorize all the way to the hotel, and they can only nettle, like Alexander Haig, on a sinis- ter force, Branch is still sure that the *summens* will be lifted as soon as he can talk te his friendly contacts in Venezuela. Rothchild keeps looking out the window for a tail.

### A Visit to a Small Hotel

The taxi drops them off at the Anauco Hilton, where Inclin is staying. Branch offers to carry Inclin's bags. The lobby, amazingly, is filled with the same DISIP lu.kers; they have managed to move their whole scene intact. They are leaning against walls and sitting on the couches. Branch looks toward the elevator in time to see the Miami attorneys and cops scurrying to get in- side, frantically pushing buttons to get the door to close. They are as jittery about seeing the reporters as the re- porters are about seeing the Venezue lan goons. And the most jittery of all, in the raiddle of the elevator, is Ricar- do Morales himself. Morales is staring at the ceiling, trying to avoid eye con- tact, and Branch has the feeling that Morales is scared. It is the first time he has seen fear on the face of this hardened veteran of Congo wars and Castro plots and murders. Seeing Morales scared makes Branch scared. He warns Inclán not to go anywhere or do anything-just to call him when he arrives at his hotel, the Avila.

Back in a taxi Branch is going through another run of Cuban polities. "I don't know, John," he says. "Maybe Morales is behind all this, but I can't figure out why he's doing it. He sure looked as if he's in trouble. He could have been making some secret deal with those cops. Something he knows about one of those bombings in Miami. Morales might not know that we were on the flight by accident. Ile might think we were tailing the cops."

Rothchild is trying not to listen. The only sure contact he thought Branch had has suddenly turned into a poten- tial enemy. Rothchild is petrified by the thought that Branch has gotten in over his head. "I think we are in more trouble," he says, "Look behind you."

This time there is a tail The other car is right on their bumper as they wind up the back streets of Caracas. "They aren't even pretending not to be following," Rothchild says. "I don't think that's a good sign."

Branch, overwhelmed, keeps looking at the car behind them. "You know," he says with a smile, "this is the first time I've ever been tailed." Rothchill feels as if he is being cranked through the roller of Graham Greene's type writer.

They reach the Hotel Avila, a Casa- blanca-type place at the top of a hill. It seems deserted unul Rothchild looks. down from a balcony near their room.
There are prople pulling into the drive way in smail cars, and they have *sanimed*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

walkie talkies and revolver hulges at the waists of their plain dark suits. They station themselves around the hotel entrance and oven in the lower bels. They have the place surrounded. There have been no phone calls-or at least that is the word from the desk. Branch paces nervously around the roost, He thinks that something he already knows about C.I.A. Cubans and terrorism must be the key to what's happening, but he doesn't know what it is. He tells everything he knows to Rothchild, going all the way back through Prio and the pre-Castro student movement Rothchild thinks Branch has lost his mind. It is fear, he figures. Branch realizes that Rothchild is lying down on the bed pretending not to be awake, that he has fallen into a stupor. It is fear, Branch figures.

Then a call comes through, but it is not the contact Branch awaits. It is Inclán, who has been denied a room at the Hilton (even though she had a reservation) and she can't reach anybody at the U.S. Embassy. She wonders what the hell is going on. Branch tells her the situation at the Avila, but she decides to come over; there are lots of rooms and at least the reporters can show some solidarity.

It takes a long time, too long, for Inclán to show up. Branch wanders downstairs; Rothchild waits by the phone for calls that never come. There is an uproar at the desk. The clerk is telling Inclán there are no rooms available even though the bank of keys is behind him in full view. He holds that position for about five minutes, then retreats to "there is some problem with you people. I can't give you a room." He seems scared. Everybody. seems scared. Denying a woman a room at three am. in Venezuela is a serious violation of the chivalric code. The three reporters talk about it, but they can't sit down or move around without being followed, almost mimicked, by cops. There are now at least six of them in the lobby at all times. Inclán decides she will sleep on a couch in the lobby, and she wonders if she should put on her nightgown for the goons. Sho sets her bags beside one couch, and the bellhop directs her over to a better one will a gracious flourish: he could have been opening the door to the wedding suite.

After va.nly scouring the lobby for pay phones, the reporters agree that they have to make a move for the room so they can talk near a phone. The three make their way up the stairs like Cary Grant tiptoring between bedrooms. To their relief, no one stops Inclán.

Branch offers Inclán his bed, saying he will sleep on the floor. Rothchild doesn't say anything, but lis paranoia tells him it is foolish to give the Venezuelans a chance to arrest them under the pretext of immoral conduct. Rothchild keeps opening the door because of his paranoia; Branch keeps closing it because of his. He doesn't want to be listened in on. Branch and Rothchild are not communicating much with each other by now. Each is worried that whatever he says the other will think it is crazy.

Inclán tries to phone her editor in Miami, but it becomes clear after about an hour of excuses that the desk clerk isn't going to put through her call. Local lines still seem to be available, but whom to call? Branch has his list of connections, but these people are in their own delicate situations and Branch doesn't want to blow their covers by calling at four a.m. on what is certainly a tapped line. Inclán can't get an answer at the U.S. Embassy. Roth child has nobody to call, and that is one of his problems. Since he is so unconnected with the story, he is sure that the police will figure he is the heavy-a deep-cover C.I.A. man out of retirement from the Everglades.

By elimination, the reporters can think of only one person in Venezuela that they could contact. Inclán has fir d out, from her visit to the A. Hilton, what floor Ricardo Morales is staying on and she thinks she knows what his room number is. Her plan is to call him directly. It is clearly a desperation move. Inclán rings up Morales at the Anauco Hilton, apologizes for the hour and begins to explain her predicament, but it is clear things are not going well. Morales apparently is denying that he is Morales. "You aren't Rica.do Morales?" Inclin asks incredulously. "You know me and I know you. I talked to your nephew in Miami yesterday. His family is fine and he sends his warmest regards."

There is a pause and Inclán begins to sound like a panelist on What's My Line?. "You've never heard of a Morales? Who are you then? Your voice sounds familiar. You're not a Venezuelan. You sound Cubaa. Are you a Cuban?" Morales says he is tired of being interrupted in his sleep; he hangs up the phone.

An air of resignation has settled over the room. It is almost morning and the goons are still standing by the bushes. The reporters are under some kind of house arrest and they feel caged. They wonder why Morales has just denied being himself. Maybe all this is happening because they know who he is and Morales fears they will ruin his cover identity. Or maybe Morales doesn't want Branch to reveal his background to anybody in Venezuela. The reporters kick this notion around, but it doesn't fit. It seems preposterous that the Venezuelans don't know about Morales previous lives, which are talked about all the time in the Miami rumor mill.

Branch paces around the room, trying to make his mind catch up with his fears. He even asks Inclán whether she is guarding some secret that might have caused the trouble.. Inclán says no and politely doesn't return the question. The reporters already trust each other instinctively, but the spy world threatens to swallow them up, too. They decide there is nothing to do except try anything to reach the outside world in the morning before getting shuttled off to the DISIP.

Inclán goes off to the lobby for some sleep on her couch. Branch tells Rothchild the rumor about the rapprochement between Morales and Bosch, saying he'd even heard Bosch had been staying in Morales' apartment. But it doesn't make any sense. Nothing does. Branch babbles on until he finally runs out of nervous energy. "Well, John," he says, smiling thinly as he sinks onto the bed, "I was right about one thing. I told you it wouldn't be a boring weekend."

Morales Takes Over
It is five-thirty a.m. and somebody is pounding on the door. Rothchild, a light sleeper, jumps out of bed. He opens the door just a crack, and then the door is thrown back so hard it bangs against the wall like a gunshet. A man in a green suit with a long walkietalkie hanging from his belt bursts past Rothchild, throwing on all the lights

continued

> [Figure] Cartoon of a person standing with their arms out wide.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

"Pack!" he jel's In hall a secomt he is
sli the way across the room. "Pack!"
Branch sits straight in beel and in
the most plaintive voce Rothchild has
ever heard him use, a mixture of recog-
nition, terror, disappointment, confu-
sion and pleading, says just one word:
"Ricardo?"

It is Morales all right. Branch
watches him anatch back the curtains
to check the balcony, then dart around
the chairs. "Pack!" There is a rhythm
to his order. He is moving like a cat,
frenzimi but in total control. Rothchild
feels the energy coming off him in
waves. He slips into the bathroom to
piss just to get away from Morales,
but he is so scared that nothing comes.
More orders come out in staccato
bursto "Get those bags closed! Give
me your passports! Give me your air-
line tickets!" Branch ard Rothchild
are convinced that he wants to destroy
the documents before he kills them.
Morales leaves the room within two
minutes, but his performance leaves so
much afterlife that Rothchild and
-Branch don't do anything once he has
left. They don't call anybody, they don't
sneak off the balcony, they don't even
say a word to each other.

Both of them jump off the floor when
the phone rings, then look dumbly at
each other. Branch picks up the re-
ceiver, grunts, and puts it down. "All
the guy said was, 'He is waiting," he
tells Rothchild. Branch's own voice
sounds far off to him.

Inclán has had rough going down-
stairs, maybe rougher than the other
(two because she is alone and also be-
cause she is not yet a. U.S. citizen.
Morales wakes her up with the same
staccato commands. She thinks maybe
he is going to take her away and have
her deported back to Havana. She is so
scared that she locks herself in the
bathroom and doesn't. come out until
she hears the other two reporters stum-
bling downstairs with their bags,

Morales twists the knife with a little
humiliation. "Pay your bill!" he yells.
Branch doesn't think he should have to
pay for the hospitality he has received,
but he pulls out his wallet without a
second's hesitation. "Pick up your
bags! Let's go!" The reporters are
hustled out of the lobby, past a squad-
ron of sunglasses. Morales is already
ahead of them, barking orders on his
walkie-talkie. kie. It is still dark.

The reporters are put into the back
of a car. Morales and a driver are up
front. Nobody is talking much. Branch
is wearing his best suit, which he does
not remember putting on during Mo-
rales brutal prodding. Now he thinks
maybe something deep in his uncon-
scious had ordered him to look his best.
Rothchild is terrified that they are
traveling in a private car instead of
an official police car. His fear of being
officially detained is rapidly, being re-
placed by a fear of being unofficially
bumped off. He keeps looking back at
the car full of poons that is following
close behind as they careen down the
mountain at one hundred twenty ki-
lometers an hour.

The car is heading out of town now,
:
:
t the populated areas and into those
sts where executions and accidents
take place, Branch is desperately try
ing to make contact with Murales. He
mentions some people from Miami sivat
he and Morales had once talked to to
gether. But every tinie Branch drops a
name, Morales turns the volume up on
the radio. He leaves it that way, blar
ing, until the questioner gives up and
Bits back in his seat. But desperation
creates another question, another try,
which ends in another mambo blast.
Branch gives up on the name-dropping
and even tries some spy-world guilt
production. "Rip would not like what
you are doing to us," he says. "Rip
would be ashamed," Rip Robertson was
Morales' gun-toting case officer in the
Congo operations. Rothchild thinks
Branch is foolish to bring up the Congo
and remind Morales how little he cares
for human life. Morales says nothing.
He just gives the radio knob another
twist.

Incián is taking the personal route
again, talking about this nephew she
has seen, mentioning other relatives of
Morales who live in Miami. Morales
isn't answering her, either. He is get
ting tired of the the radio. Now he just
leans his head over against the door to
get some sleep.-Watching Morales nod,
the fury turned off like a light,
Branch's mind is filled with memories
of Miami Curans telling stories of
legendary agents who would drop off
to sleep just before landing in Cuba on
a C.I.A. commando raid. He never quite
believed the stories, but he thinks
Morales' nap is very effective theater.
Rothchild is also watching the nap.
Every time Morales nods, Rothchild
thinks he is ducking so that the bullets
from the car behind won't hit him.
Rothchild ducks, too.

After about twenty minutes of driv-
ing, the road flattens out and the re-
porters can see the airport in the dis
tance. Morales mentioned "airport"
once back in the hotel lobby, but the
reporters were never sure he intended
to take them there. If he were just
planning to expel them, it would seem
that he could afford to be more com-
municative, more curious about what
the reporters were doing, more worried
about the kind of story they might
write about him. But, Morales asked,
no questions. Rothchild knew from
Branch's incessant briefings. that Mo-
rales wore a lot of hats: terrorist as
well as informant, mercenary as well
as cop, bomber as well as representa-
tive of a government. It might be more
paranoia to think he would kill them,
but all last night's paranoia had come
true.

The reporters know one thing: they
have stumbled onto a story that is
big enough and sensitive enough that
top people in the Venezuelan DISIP
are interrupting their sleep and risk-
ing diplomatic reprisals to scare the
hell out of them. It isn't routine in
Venezuela, one of the few South Ameri-
can countries left with any sense of
freedoin of the press. There is some
thing big going on, and the reporters i
don't know, as they speed through
Cara whether they will ever get to
find on. what it is Nobody, after all,
knows neere the reporters are, and the
only thing on their side, besinies some
vestural compassion that might reside
pomewhere even in goors, is the sense
that would opinion would be on Mo-
rales back if they did get tortured or
billed. But that's just the point-world
option was on the terrorists' backs
about the Cuban airline crash and
about Letlier and Mothtt. They killed
them anyway. They didn't give a damn.

The car pulls up at the airport. It is
less than eight hours since the report.
era catered the country, and they have
talked to nobody except Morales, the
goons and each other. Their best guess
is that Morales plans to keep it that
way.

Breakfast at Ricardo's
Morales marches the group through
part of the airport lobby and then up
some back stairs, past the meteorology
room and into the tower section. They
arrive at a locked, knobless door with
a
small pass-through window, and
Morales has to knock before it is
opened from the inside. They have
arrived at the goon control center.
There is a four-drawer cabinet where
the DISIP police file their guns and
bullet clips like memos. There is an
old couch, a few desks, and in an ad-
Joining room some bunk beds. All the
people from the night shift are still
there, including Romulo, in the same.
turtleneck and the same leather jacket.
The most impressive new lurker is a
character they call "El Largo," or "The
Long One."

It is clear now that the plan is not
torture, it is deportation, but the re-
porters sense that the plan could easily
be changed. Morales is stalking be
tween rooms, giving orders and mak-
ing calls, and when he looks at the re-
porters he seethes with anger. Inclán
and Branch are directing more ques-
tions at him from the couch. He an-
swers only with contemptuous looks.
No one is prepared for what happens
next. Morales walks out with a wide
grin on his face. He clasps his hands
together like a waiter and cheerfully
addresses the reporters: "Is anybody
hungry? Are you ready for some break-
fast?"

The reporters follow Morales dumbly
down the maze of corridors. They de
cide there is something oriental about
recent developments, and they are con-
venced Morales could show them great
courtesy one moment and yank out
their toenails "the next. They follow
Morales down the corridors until they
come to a small dining room that ap
pears to be reserved for airport per-
sonnel. Branch gives fleeting thought |
to the idea of making a scene, but
he decides Morales would not have
brought them here unless he controlled;
the area. Besides, Branch realizes, he
does not have the courage to make a
scene in front of Morales, who still has
the reporters nearly paralyzed with
fright
Morales lays his big walkie-talkie
down on the table and snaps for a
sentiaved

7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# 14-00000

waiter, "W, will you have?" he asks gracion-ry.

se reporters had figurel breakfast was probably a ruse, so they think about found for the first time. It is a struggle. Rothchild's stomach is filled with embalming fluid. He feels queasy looking at the mene, branch asks only for coffee and an order of toast, Roth-child follows suit, Morales looks disap poisted and urges them to eat more heartily fuckin orders eggs and Morales looks pleased. He orders a sump-tuous breakfast for himself. It arrives promptly.

"Well," he asks grandly, "who do you think will win your election, Carter or Ford?"

The reporters exchange the look, familjar by now, that signals their agreement that absurdity has reached new heights. They mumble offhand an-swers as Morales listens intently.

"You don't really have much choice, do you? he asks. "I mean, you have two guys who don't have any ideas and don't have any backbone, right? And neither one of them can command any-thing or step anything, so it doesn't make any difference, right? At least that's what I get from Time maga-zine."

Inclán tries to change the subject. She asks Morales about his position in the DISIP and gets no response. She mentions Morales' nephew, whom she knows in Miami, and Morales parries the remark. Suddenly a cloud comes acros3 his face.

"What's the inatter with you?" he demands. "Why aren't you eating?" Ife peints down at the dry toast, which Branch and Rothchild have been pick-ing at like wafilers at Communion. "Aren't you hungry?"

Branch neds yes; Rothchild nods no. "You told me you hadn't gotten any breakfast, so I give you breakfast," Morales declares angrily, waving his arms. "If you are not hungry, you are liars! What's the matter with you?"

The reporters are exasperated. "We are afraid and confused," says Inclán, "because nobody will tell us why this is happening to us. I am a reporter like all the other reporters down here. I want to interview Orlando Bosch like I did once before..." :..

"Never heard of him," interrupts Morales. He gives us an exaggerated sirug and a quizzical look.

Inclán shakes her head in despair. "Oh, come on. You testified against hina eight years ago in Miami and now he's the most famous prisoner in Latin America. He's in your jail."

"Did he make Time magazine?" asks Morales.

"Yes," says Branch.

"I guess I missed it," says Morales, He pauses, then turns to Inclan. "You should not be running around asking so many questions," he says sternly. "You are a woman, Women should be at home having babies and making their men happy. Nothing else."

(Inclán is rutled. "I can work as well as most other reporters," she says.

Morales shakes his head vigorously. "No you can't. You are a hundred miles aw from reality." He looks off and again.

"s don't think so," says Inclán. "I think you are."

"No," says Morales, "You are a hun-dred miles from reality, and I am a hundred years from reality. You under-stand the difference?".

"I don't know what I understand," says Inclán, "I know something about you. Taylor says he talked to you about your background in Miami and you talked to him like a friend. He says you were nice and now you are..."

"I am not nice," snaps Morales. "You know what I used to do in Cuba when I was a kid? I sent anonymous death wreaths to my friends. All the time. Is that nice?"

Branch does not like this subject or the faintly homicidal look he sees be-an-fore him. He decides to make another stab at levity. "Look, Ricardo," he says, "I'm upset that you and your men have kept me from seeing anything about the last game of the World Series last night."

"The World Series," he says, his eyes opening wide. "Let me tell you about the World Series. It is just like the world everywhere: the Reds are win-ing and the Yanks are losing!" Morales breaks into laughter. Something snaps in the reporters and they laugh, too, uncontrollably. Fear floats out of their mouths and they feel better.

Branch wades in to reestablish con-tact. "Look, Ricardo," he says gamely, "I can't help thinking this is some kind of mistake. I want to be straight with you. All I'm interested in is the mur.der of Orlando Letelier. That's what I came down here for, and I want..."

"He's the guy who got blown up in Washington, right?" Morales breaks in, "I think I saw that in Time."

"That's right. He was blown up right around the corner from my apart.ment."

"Wel" what are you doing in Veno-zuela i was killed in Washington!" Morales demands.

"Because I think the people who conspired to Lill him are here. That's what my sources say, and it has even been in some of the Venezuelan news. papers."

Morales looks disgusted. "You shouldn't read the newspapers," he says. tightly. "They lie. And you should in-vestigate that murder in Washington instead of coming halfway around the world."

Branch tries another tack. "I don't. understand what's behind this, Ricardo. You aren't like you were the last time I saw you, in 1974. Don't you remem-ber? It was at night in Miami Beach, and you brought your girl friend over to the house I was staying in. And Fotingo Silva was there. And Tamayo was there. We talked almost all night about the Congo. Why have you changed? Is there something."

Branch stops because of what he sees on Morales' face.

"You are lying!" he explodes. "I have never heard of Ricardo Morales! This is the first time I have ever met you, and it is the first time you have met mel Understand? I have never seen you before in my life! If you say dif-ferent you are lying! And bad things happen to liars!"

Inclán comes to Branch's rescue. "I have seen your picture," she says, "and I'm sure who you are. If you're not Morales, then what is your name?"

"I don't answer personal questions," Morales says, smiling, trying to look shy.

"I think maybe you figure there's a little spy conspiracy here," Branch ob-serves, stabbing in the dark. "But there isn't. John and nd I are old friends, but we just met Hilda yesterday. She is interested in Bosch and his friends be-cause of the bombings in Miami and the Cuban plane. We are interested in them because of Letelier. The three of us just happened to come down here on the same plane."

"Oh, really?" says Morales dubious-ly. "I guess you are good friends now."

"I guess we've gone through some-thing together," says Rothchild.

"Now you have something in com-mon," he nods, feigning tenderness, "Let's see, what else is there? Have you all been married?" The reporters nod. "How about divorced?" The re-porters nod again. "Once?" They nod again.

Morales holds up three fingers. "I have been divorced' three times," he says, "after four kids. I haven't seen them in seven years." This hangs in the air.

"Do you miss them?" asks Inclán.

"Not the children," Morales says softly. "Just the wives sometimes. I don't miss much. You know I haven't slept in two years." The reporters give each other significant looks, like shrinks attending a primal-therapy session.

"If you are going to kick us out of the country, you should at least let us call our families," Inclán saya. "My editors are going to be worried. We

8


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# 14-00000

have appointments and thuse prople don't have any idea where we are. Why can't you let us make at least one phone call?"

Morales has shed his melancholy and alipped into a new person He is eager. "You're right," he says, "I'll call them. Anyody you want, Tell me who your appointments are with." He pulls out a pen ina Hash. Branch blinks. He is startled by low fast Morales moves and how fiercely he snaps the point down.

The reporters glance knowingly at each other. They share a vision of Morales hauling their contacts down to DISIP's welcome wagon. We're not that dumb, they think.

Inclán tells Morales to call her editor at The Miami News, a safe, serious cail. Mores speils out the name letter by letter as he writes on his napkin like a schoolboy taking down his home work. He is putting on a show. He looks at Branch.

"Tell Orlando Bosch it doesn't look as if I'll be able to make it this trip,' Branch says, "He's in the DISIP pris-on.":

The reporters giggle, but Morales deadpans. "T-e-1-1 O-r-l-a-in-d-o B-o-s-h..."

"You've spelled Bosch wrong," says Inclán. "It's R-o-s-c-h."

"I'm sorry," says Morales,

Morales keeps writing. "You are a funny one," he says jovially. He looks up. "Anybody else?"

"Yes," says Branch, He has been trying to think of one of his contacts in Venezuela who would not be vul-nerable to Morales but whose clout might impress him. Any name is a risk, but he decides to take one. "Tell the governor of Caracas that I won't be able to see him. His name is Diego Arias. Do you know him?".

Branch studies Morales for a reac tion, but there is none.

After breakfast, as the procession goes by a pay phone, Inclan suddenly an-nounces, "I'd like to make one call to the American Embassy." She breaks step and marches toward it, the first sign of overt resistance. Morales freezes Branch and Rothchild with a malicious glance and walks with her, shaking his head. Support goons appear from around corners: They seent re-Jaxed. Morales fingers his walkie-talkie. Inclán gets to the phone and starts fumbling for Venezuelan change and her phone numbers. Morales leans up against the wall near the phone. He looks amused. His body seems to twitch a little under his suit, as if he might need some exercise.

Branch and Rothchild keep telling themselves that Inclán is making a futile gesture, but they admire her. "She's got more guts than we do," whispers Rothchild.

Branch and Rothchild watch her lift the phone from the cradle, but they don't think she has the change or the number. She is nervous. She looks Morales in the face, which is probably a inistake. He stares at her, shakes his head, and hangs up the phone gently.

Aa hour later, Morales suddenly mobriizes his entire otice. Some c' his men grab the reporters' suitcases and vanish. Others take off for unknown destinations. The rest fall in around the wirtere and Morales leads them briskly out the door.

Rothchild figures they have just enough time to make the ten am. flight to Miami that he had seen posted en a board some time earlier. He senses an end coming and feels some relief. But when the entourage emerges on the air-port's main concourse, Morales turns toward the exit into Caracas, not toward the planes.

"I thought you were putting us on the plane," says Branch. "Where are we going?"

"To the other, airport," says Mo-rales. His mind is elsewhere.

"What happens if we make a fuss when you put us on the plane?" Inclán asks. "What then?"

Morales' face is taut but breaks into a tour-guide smile. "You will either leave Venezuela nice and happy, or..." He pauses. "Or you will leave nice and happy." He delivers the last line with a lilt, as if making a rhyme. the reporters absorb the menacing smile and fall silent.

Several cars screech up to the curb. Once loaded, they take off at the usual torrid páce. Branch feels panic open-ing trapdoors under his lungs and he Jeans over to Rothchild. "Holy shit, John," he whispers. "I don't think there is another airport in Caracas."

After racing a quarter mile down the road, the cars turn abruptly into a parking lot. The reporters are baffled by the rush and the short trip but re-lieved to be staying near the airport,
They figure they are headed for a plane from a different direction, but Morales leads them through another maze of corridors and into a new hold-ing room. It has a big waiting area with two rooms partitioned off on the side. The doors are metal with no handles. They lock from both sides.

Morales vanishes, leaving Kómulo and El Largo in charge. Rómulo's fingertips do push-ups on his desk while he looks on, stone-faced. Roth-child gets the impression that Rómulo likes to stare at blank walls more than at people. El Largo, who seems to be a notch above Rómulo in the pecking order, moves into one of the partitioned offices and stays almost continuously on the phone. He reminds the reporters of his presence from time to time by loudly sucking phlegm up his long spiny nose.

After about ten minutes, Branch starts pacing away from Rómulo "Goddamn it," Branch spurts, "I don't think we know enough about Morales to make him do all this. He's going to a lot of trouble to seal us off from Venezuela, but it doesn't make sense that he would do it just because we know who he is."

"Why not?" asks Inclán.

"Because," says Rothchild, "what we already know is going to come out any-way if he kicks us out of the country." "I think maybe Norales is anore

....ied about what we might find out If we ever get out of his clutches," says Branch. "I think maybe it's the fact that this terrorists is organized internationally. Bosch moves around on illegal passports and has faner 'und-raising dinners with supposedly respect. able people in lots of countries, He's supported by at least part of a lot of governments. And this stutt looks cross-national-Cubans killing Chileans and so forth. Now look at how Venezuela fits in. It's kind of an entrepôt for ev-erybody on all sides. The povernment is in a real pickle. It has to get along with the military juntas that have tak-en over most of Latin America, and it zlso has to get along with Castro, This country is filled with left-wing Chilean exiles and right-wing Cuban exiles Letelier is buried here, which is a tilt to the left, but the people who helped conspire to kill him might well be right in the DISIP, which is full of Cubans like Morales. President Pérez [Carlos Andrés, of Venezuela) has got his own little Watergate here, because his own government is tangled up with both the terrorists and the anti-terrorists. This whole country is like a tinderbox. The government is making little ges. tures to both sides, trying to keep the lid on."

"Okay," Branch continues, "Let's assume that Morales is not bootlegging us out of the country on his own. That seems stupid to me. Let's assume that at least the people in the interior ministry know what's going on. And let's assume they're afraid we'll get into the country and find a story that goes something like INTERNATIONAL TERRORIST ORGANIZATION HEADQUAR-TERED IN VENEZUELA. OPERATIVES MOST-LY CUBAN. EXILES WITH CIA AND FRI TIES. VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT PLAYING BOTH SIDES. And we go on to say that Bosch has brought a lot of Latin governments around to his position, which is that it's better to trust each other than to trust the C.I.A. Now, what I'm saying is that a story like that would really screw up the Venezuelans, especially if it's fleshed opt. It's the last thing the government here needs right now."

"So what side is Morales on?" asks Rothchild.

"I think he's on both sides," says Inclán.

"I think so, too," says Branch, "just like the government. Morales is in the underworld of both sides."

Inclán thinks for a moment. "There's only one big problem," she says. "If they're so afraid of a story like that, why do they let other reporters stay and just throw us out? Why do they pick on us?"

"I don't know," Branch sighs. "I don't know much about the correspon-dents here. They're getting some stuff out, but my impression is that they cover nine countries and just fly in for the coups and earthquakes. That still doesn't make us so special. But maybe we are to Morales. We know him. He knows Hilda knows a lot about Bosch and Miami connections. He knows that I got pretty deeply into the C.LA. Cubans. Then he sees us with the pr

contioved

$


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

cutors. That may have been too much for him to take chances with us. I don't know, Maybe he thinks we're CIA."

## Swords on the Runway

El Largo picks up the three passports of Romisio's desk and points them toward the locked door like a baton, "Vamos is all he says."

The metal door is unlocked by El Largo, and once again the DISIP cortege appears from nowhere. They escort the reporters down another staircase and cut toward an immigration stall in a large room that is completely isolated. It is a busy part of the day at a major airport, but the DISIP keeps finding these empty halls and empty rooms to stick the reporters in.

Something about approaching this immigration stall, which is not attended, and knowing he will pass through it and get on an airplane and not find Letelier's murderer starts to galvanize Branch. There is a tiny passage to go through and El Largo is motioning them to walk on, but Branch is having these visions of the bombed car outside his apartment and he is getting mad. The madder he gets, the slower he walks. "We can't just get on this plane," he says to Rothchild. "We have to at least do something." He and Rothchild, and then Inclán, behind them, go into a stall-not a complete stop, but they are slowing it way down. Morales might have clamped down on this little insurrection in a second, but El Largo seems merely agitated. He is getting in front of the reporters, pleading and begging, pulling with his arms as if they are all connected by an invisible rope.

In complete exasperation, he starts sputtering threats. "If you don't move through here, I am going to use the force!" Two guards go running down to the end of the room, apparently to go find the force, which turns out to be four young soldiers in green fatigues and paratrooper boots.

With the army behind them, the reporters continue their shuffle. Two move ahead a few feet and one hangs back. Then the members of the armed forces plus the "DISIP" people surround the straggler, prodding him along, while one of the other two breaks away to the same spot the straggler just vacated.

Out of a picture window the reporters can see the plane being gassed up. It is VIASA, the Venezuelan airline, and not Pan Am. Inclán, finally expressing some paranoia herself, says, "Well they could blow us up on the plane, but they wouldn't sacrifice a Venezuelan plane. They don't have that many of them."

They have been dragging on this walk for almost forty minutes now, and they can see the busloads of tourists being flushed back cut from their vacations. The buses are stopping at the back stairway of the plane. Then Branch gets his idea. "In here where there is nobody to see us we can't do much," he tells Rothchild. "But out there, in front of all those tourists, we can get some help. Let's go." Rothchild and Branch huddle with Inclán. They hatch the plan and agree. Then all abandon their shuffle, to the surprise of the herders, who have been pushing all along. Suddenly they see their quarry running off in front of them. El Largo doesn't catch on right away, but he knows that whatever the reporters want to do, it must be the wrong thing. So he starts running after them, yelling, "Stop!" Branch and Rothchild hit the double glass door with Inclán and El Largo and the army just behind. They all pour out onto the runway to the curious looks of hundreds who are lined up to get on the plane.

For the first time since they landed in Venezuela, Inclán is visibly upset. She rushes out to the line of passengers, screaming in Spanish and English that she is a woman reporter whose dignity has been trampled on by the secret police. The police, who are massed behind her in greater numbers than ever before, don't know quite how to deal with this. The passengers don't know whether to accept her as a lunatic traveler whom they don't want with them on the plane, or to believe what she is saying, which would be unpleasant. Most of them pretend that nothing is happening and go on up the ramp.

Branch, meanwhile, has planted himself on the stairs that lead to the front cabin of the plane. He is sitting down and his hands are clenched to the rails like a Quaker chained to the White House fence. Rothchild is sitting on the steps just below Branch, and they are being surrounded by a brigade of reinforcements, the sword company. The men in brown uniforms have circled them, and they pull the swords a few inches out of their long scabbards ready to hog-stick Rothchild and Branch into the airplane. Behind them officials and police seem to be pouring out of the doors and official jeeps are screeching up and screeching off, and Rómulo has even showed up again.

The captain of the airplane, a Venezuelan, comes down the same ramp on which Branch and Rothchild have been doing their sit-in, and he has a scowl on his face. Venezuela has enough trouble developing tourism and here is his plane being held up and his passengers' last memory of Venezuela will be these goons with swords and blackjacks prodding Americans up the ramp. He steps over Branch and goes right down to the huddle of secret police, where the current brains of the operation, Rómulo and El Largo, are standing. The captain proceeds to chew them out, tell them that they are idiots to pull a show like this and that he will not take passengers on his airplane if they are loaded by force. The security risk, for one thing. If these people are that dangerous, then why should they be flying a'une on his airplane?

El Largo and Rómulo don't quite know how to handle this sudden obstacle. They get a let's-talk-this-one-over-buddy look on their faces and go into a huddle with the captain. They also defer to even higher authority, a beefy cop named Camargo, who is wearing a short-sleeve shirt. Camargo arrives in the middle of the scene, looking like the frust director of a runaway cast. There are now dozens of DISIP men in plain clothes, a few representatives from about four different military detachments, frantic jeep drivers, airline authorities, pilots and ground-crew personnel, all crowding around to watch or take part in the action. Camargo looks skyward, thinking under pressure, and gets his idea. "Why don't you let me go with these people?" he asks the pilot. "If I take them to Miami, I guarantee there won't be any funny stuff on your plane." Rothchild thinks this is a little-ironic. The reporters come down to investigate one plane bombing and return under guard so that, they can't pull one off themselves.

The pilot doesn't think too much of Camargo's idea. "Do you have a U.S. visa?" he asks Camargo. "No." "Then, do you know what they will do to you when you get to Miami? Much worse than whatever you have done to them here" Camargo doesn't like the way that sounds. He scraps the plan, and the captain returns to the plane.

The reporters aren't sure of what they have just done. They have scored a theatrical victory-just look around at all these cars and soldiers and distressed officials-but they don't like the prospect of lunch with Ricardo Morales. Nobody seems to be running to call the American Embassy or any other outside help, so the plan is a qualified failure.

The three of them head back to the passenger line, where people are still loading, and start writing phone numbers on little scraps of paper-the numbers are of editors in Miami, friends, and even mothers. They try handing them out to boarding passengers. The reporters are received in this effort like Salvation Army collectors at the race-track. Only a few of the passengers actually take the notes, but just to make sure, the DISIP people are picking them off at the higher end of the line. Some passengers even go out of their way to hand over the notes, with an air of having done their civic duty. It develops into a kind of assembly line, notes in and notes out, the DISIP goons collecting just as fast as Inclán, Branch and Rothchild can scrawl.

It is now, with the plane about to close its doors, that Branch comes up with another plan: send one, leave two. Branch still is hoping he can break the Morales logjam and get out into friendly territory, where his contacts are waiting to help him. Inclán speaks the best Spanish and seems the most adept at handling inspectors and bureaucrats. They will stay and Rothchild is chosen to leave. Branch reminds him, in front of the sword brigade, that he is an "expectant father," but Rothchild needs no encouragement. He instantly calls for the captain and explains that he wants to get on the plane. The captain hesitates, then agrees, and Rothchild runs for the stairs, As he passes Branch and Inclán, Branch sticks one page of phone numbers in his pocket and, as a diversionary tactic, clumsily sticks another note in his hand, this one in full

10. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

view of the cons. As the sword carriers
are frisking Rothchild, the second note
Is triumphantly confiscated. They don't
know that it says "Joe Morgan" on it
The name of the great Cincinnati sec-
and baseman will go somewhere into the
DISIP files.

Halfway up the ramp. Rothchild
senses that the pressure has somehow
been reversed, that now the DISIP
wants to keep him on the ground. Sev-
eral cops are following him as if they
want to get ahead and stop him at the
door. He scurries inside the plane and
rushes back to a seat; they are still fol-
lowing him. He has his seat belt buckled
almost before his ass hits the cushion,
and the two cops reach out as if to grab
him, then change their minds and
abruptly leave the aircraft. But they
quickly return. They tell. Rothchild in a
very friendly tone that his friends
down on the ground want to: have a
word with him and that he better un-
buckle and come down. Rothchild is so.
agitated he believes them. He gets as
far as the plane entrance, the top of
the stairs, when he hears Branch yell-
ing, "Get back." He bowls over a stew-
ardess on the way to his seat,

The cops are not through yet. They
return with another ploy: Rothehild has
mot filled out the necessary papers and
he must return to an office in the air-
port, "Are you sure this isn't a trick?"
Rothchild asks. "No, no trick. Just
a procedural matter." Rothchild tells
them he isn't moving an inch until he
talks to the captain,

Out his little window, Rothchild sees
further agitation on the runway. They
have brought up a car and they are.
trying to force Branch and Inclán to
get into it. Camargo is flailing his arms
like a giant windmill, determined to get
all three reporters together-on or off
the plane. The reporters are equally
determined, to split up. Branch and
Inclán keep telling Camargo that they
will not move from the runway until
the plane takes off. They want to stay
in plain view of all the passengers,
fearing that the goons will grab Roth-
child once the other two are safely out
of view. Branch and Inclán keep en-
couraging each other and making jokes
about how incredible all the commotion
has become. Workmen in orange suits
sire crouched in the shade, smoking cig-
arettes, and several hundred gawkers
are spread out in a semicircle like faus
in the bleachers.

Camargo-tries a whole string of
tricks to get Branch and Inclán out of
sight. Will they move into the airport,
please? No. He goes off into a huddle
and comes back. Will they get in the
car so they can get out of the hot sun?
No. Will they get in the car if he prom-
ises they can watch the plane from
there? No. After one huddle, the nood
changes and several goons swing little
brown blackjacks. Branch and Inclán
say a prayer, refuse to move and wave
ostentatiously at the airplane, The
goons shove-and menace but then go off
again. Rómulo comes back with his gur
palled, looking, like a crazed assassin.
Camargo soor. yanks him back to the
goon huddle, The plane starts taxiing

om the runway and Camargo says,
"You've won. Let's go." The reporters
huddle and say not until it's off the
ground. Camargo looks furious and
barks a command to his walkie-talkie
man. The plane stops immediately and
sits in the middle of the airstrip. Ca-
marge ce..trols the tower, the reporters
conclude. The game, played by inches
and bluffs, goes on for nearly an hour.

Camargo Plays Hardball
Branch and Inclán are spread-eagled
against the back-door openings of the
goon car, facing each other, when the
jet finally takes off. They have held this
position for the last fifteen minutes or
so so of the cat-and-mouse game. The roar
of the jet engines sets off tremors in
Branch's gut, and he is flooded with re-
lief. He feels tears welling up.:

Rómuño is now wearing his gun
tucked inside his pants at the navel,
His turtleneck is soaked with sweat
He and Camargo and the head black
jack man escalate their nudging again,
and extras crowd in behind them. The
reporters, talking over the roof of the
car, decide that the plane will not be
called back. They get in the car. Romulo
sits next to Branch, and Camargo takes
the front seat. They peel off down the
runway with other cars following.....
"How long will it take the plane to
get to Miami?" Inclán asks Camargo.
"A little more than three hours," say's
Camargo. "It has to stop in Mara-
caibo."

Branch shivers and asks Inclán to
translate the Spanish to make sure he
heard right.

"I thought you said it was a direct
flight to Miami," Inclán says in dis-
belief.

"It is going direct to Miami, señora,"
replies Camargo, "but it is stopping in
Maracaibo."

The reporters discuss with renewed
horror the fact that Maracaibo is still
in Venezuela; they envision the DISIP
people paying a call on Rothchild. Ca-
ma rins at them. His lips slant in
one direction, and the upper row. of his
front teeth slants in the other, making
an X. Branch thinks Camargo must
file his teeth. lie inches away from
Rómulo until he is almost in Inclán's
lap

Three hours later, Camargo summons
the two reporters to his office after
more consultation with Central Ca-
racas. Only one thing has changed, he
Reys graciously. Both their visas have
been officially revoked; they are or-
dered to leave at three-thirty. The re-
porters ask why, and Camargo shrugs.

Without warning, the session is in-
terrupted when one of the younger
goons strolls in and hands Camargo a
brand-new Jim Palmer baseball glove
and a box of six baseballs. The report
ers are astonished."

"Excuse me," says Camargo, who
begins to pound his fist in the new
glove, He is beaming. He and Branch
start talking baseball, with a bewil-
dered Inclán translating. A bond is
formed. Camargo lets Branch pound his
fist into the glove

Camargo is now expansive, as if the
reporters were guests in his home. He
says he knows a lot about the United
States and walks over to a corner where
there is a stack of framed diplomas on
the floor. He flips through them and
hands Branch a diploma from the U.S.
Army School of Special Warfare. It is
signed by General Joseph W. Stilwell,
Commandant. Then he hands Branch a
certificate from the International Police:
Academy, a training school for the
world's policemen. It has closed after a
dose of scandal. Branch wonders if all
the DISIP goons have been trained by
the Agency; he would like to meet their
American contacts:

Rothchild has landed in Miami, He
goes straight to The Miami News and
causes an uproar with his story. The
editors there have been. worried about
Inclán since she missed her check-in
call six hours ago. The managing edi-

> [Figure: A cartoon depicts two men in suits whispering behind their hands, with several figures seated at desks in the background.  One of the men is speaking on the phone.]

> "Any suggestions on who to get rid of?"
> continued

11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# 14-00000

tor calls the American Embassy in Ca.
racas nad lifts it off the ground with
rage. The embassy promises to investi-
gate immediately. Rothchild begins to
reconsider his views on newspaper edi-
tors.

Camargo comes into the holding room
wearing the look of a man who has just
accomplished something.

"Your visas have been officially con-
fiscated," he announces.

The reporters look at him blankly.
"What's new about that?" asks Inclán.
"You have had them all day."

"Now they are permanently confis
cated," says Camargo. He shows them
a new Venezuelan seal stamped on each
one. Over the seals, someone has
scrawled, "Visa fue revocada."

Before the reporters have time to fig-
ure out what this signifies, Camargo
gives the order to move out. He says the
plane is late. The goon squads ma-
terialize,.:

Inclán explains to Branch that they
are in big trouble. Even if Camargo
lets them go, she says, they could be
stopped ten feet outside the airport and
ashed for their papers. They could be
slapped in prison for the "rovocada" on
their passports. For the first time they,
are not on solid legal ground. Branch
shakes his head wearily and tells Inclán
they have lost a round of hardball.
They follow a triumphant Camargo
to the plane.

Epilogue: More Pay Phones

On October 24, two days after the re-
porters left Caracas, Deputy Interior
Minister Marco Tulio Brunicelli talked
with the press to clear up the matter.
Brunicelli. said Hilda Inclán bad ar
rived carrying documents that "did not
conform with national norms," and
that "she was cordially asked to leave
the country because it is necessary to
comply with our laws." As for Branch
and Rothchild, he declared that they
"expressed solidarity with their col-
league and decided to leave the coun-
try

That same day, Branch was checking
with Cuban sources In Miami to find
out why Morales had turned on him,
He received worse than a cold shoulder,
and some of of his best Cuban friends told
him to stay out of Miami. The most
loyal veterans of the C.LA.-people
who had spent years denouncing and
exposing terrorists as a detriment to
the anti-Castro cause now supported
the terrorists and expected nothing but
opposition from the Agency. "If you
don't help the good people fight Castro,"
said one old C.I.A. Cuban, "then we have
: to help the bad ones do it. There's noth-
ing left but terrorism." Branch was
stunned by how rapidly the anti-CIA,
pro-terrorist trend: had progressed in
even the two years since he had left
Miami. CIA. loyalists were now in very
short supply. The last defectors were
Cubans whose secret historiés stretched
back to the Fifties and Sixties, when
their anti-Communist movement was in
the American mainstream. The C.L.A.
trained the Cubans to work by stealth
to lie, smuggle weapons, move illegally..
in and out of countries, make bombs
strike secretly against Castro tar
Some of thein were "oficial" ter-
rorists, who would stoically accept lung
jail sentences rather than reveal a
C.I.A. secret, Now they were no longer
official.

Rothchild was back home in the Er-
erglades On Monday he received the
first of several phone calls from a man
identifying himself as a "consultant to
the government of Venezuela." He
wanted to give Rothchild some money
to write about Rothchild's background.
Very weird, thought Rothchild. He be
gan to worry that his trip to Caracas
would follow him.

Press reports from Venezuela quoted
interior ministry officials in Venezuela
as saying that Ricardo Morales "did
not cause the expulsion of the Ameri-
can journalists:" In an official state-
ment on October 26 the ministry said
Morales "does not even work for the
DISIP."

A few days later, Branch received a
letter from someone in Venezüela who
was working on the terrorist network.
It came by messenger and read like
Sherlock Holmes: "The key to this
thing whatever it is is Morales, and
the key to him is something you already
know. It seems that something he once
told you or knows you know will click
with something you would be likely to
hear here, or would reveal something
here, that he didn't want out. Think."

Branch went to see Eugène Propper,
the assistant U.S. attorney in charge
of the Letelier investigation. Propper
wanted to know about the Venezuela
trip because he was thinking of going
there himself. The leads pointed there,
he said. He asked questions about the
Cuban terrorists. Branch outlined what
he knew. He took a reading of Propper
and was satisfied that he wanted badly
to solve the case. Branch only worried
that they were both way over their
heads. His worries skyrocketed when
Propper asked to see a copy of The
Miami News, which contained articles
about Morales and the Venezuela trip.

Propper knitted his eyebrows and
scrutinized the News as if it were a
moon rock. Something gave Branch a
sinking feeling. "The Neics and the
Herald in Miami have an awful lot of
stuff about terrorists," he said. "You
have all that, don't you?"

"I don't think we get them," said
Propper.

"You have to have them," Branch
pleaded. Propper made a couple of un-Prer said it could be handled. The

F.B:1. ople on the case would arist
their own mothers if they had to. The
tettorista had threatened to kill an
F.B.I. agent. The Bureau and two hun-.
dred agents on the case. It was the
biggest thing in the W...

"What about the Agency?" asked
Branch, "Look, I don't think the C.LA.
had anything to do with these murders,
but the terrorists are using their old
C.I.A. connections in more ways than
one. The Agency is in a bind. It has
created a monster. The whole world of
secrets in Miami has turned upside
down. But I'll bet those old pros over
at the Agency aren't about to sacrifice
their security and secrecy to help solve
a murder."

Propper said he was getting coopera-
tion, resins of stuff in fact, Branch
asked him to test it. "Ask them for
their file on Luis Posada," he said. "I:
know they've got one on him. He came
into the Agency through the M.R.P.
before the Bay of Pigs. Ask the Agency
what it has about Posada's involvement
with a bootleg assassination attempt
against Castro in 1965 involving a guy
named-Herminio Díaz. Díaz was caught
and killed in Cuba. Now, if the Agency
doesn't have anything on that, they're
just giving you a lot of smoke." (Po-
sada is the Cuban detective from the
DISIP now held by the DISIP for the
Cubana de Aviación bombing.)

Propper agreed. (On a later visit,
Propper would say he was getting
Agency cooperation but declined to give
Branch'any details.)

On November 4, the State Depart
ment responded to Branch's request for
a position statement on the Venezuelan
expulsion, which the U.S. Embassy in
Caracas had been investigating. A
State Department representative read a:
portion of a press briefing as follows:
Q: What did he (Branch) say and
what's the State Department going to
do about it?

A: He described the dealings he and
two others had with the Venezuelan Ven
authorities at Maiquetía Airport when
they arrived there last week. I'm not
going to discuss details of what he said.
That would be for him to do, if he
wishes, Our Embassy has expressed our
concern over this incident to the appro-
priate Government of Venezuela offi-
cials.

An hour later, an agitated woman
from the State Department called back.
"Mr. Branch," she said, "I'm afraid
successful phone calls around the Jus-there's been a big mistake. That brief-
tice Department and said he would get
these newspapers from the Library of
Congress as soon as possible.

Branch knew what it must be like to
call the police station in the middle of a
robbery and find its phone disconnected.
He recovered and offered to do any
thing he could to help, even to go back
to Venezuelá.
ing that was just read to you does not
constitute the department's public posi-
tion. It is a guideline."

"What is a guideline?"

"It is a policy draft setting out what
the people here are authorized to say in
response to inquiries. What you have
there is what we would have said had
we been asked. But it is not what we
have said publicly. We have no record
of being asked on the record, although
some reporters may have inquired pri-
vately, in which case we would have
responded according to the guideline."..
"So what is the State Department's
.....position, then?"

"I've only got one major reservation,"
he said, "and that is the informant
problem. You have to rely on the F.B.I.
and the C.I.A. to investigate, and the
fact is that most of the suspects and
likely witnesses are old CIA, and
F.B.I. men of some sort."

12
continu
2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

The woman went on to say, in so many words, that State was holding steady at an expression of concern. That afternoon, Branch met with Propper and the senior F.B.I. agent on the Letelier case. The agent was convincingly determined to solve the murders. Branch sketched out what he knew again. The agent advised him strongly not to return to Venezuela, observing that the DISIP was perfectly capable of chopping off his hands and assembling a dozen Venezuelans within thirty minutes to swear it was an accident. He felt the F.B.L. had to put away the killers, who had come to Washington-in order to check the terrorists, boldness, Otherwise Washington could gradually turn into Miami, and Miami could turn turn into Beirut... Branch agreed and asked if the F.B.I. was planning a trip to Venezuela. The agent replied that he was not sure of the Bureau's.. own physical safety there, and that furthermore the F.B.I. did not have jurisdiction for such a trip. He outlined the restrictions on the F.B.I. and CIA as they apply to cases that are both domestic and international, criminal and related to the national security. It added up to catch 22, but it did not destroy the agent's confidence.. Branch's confidence, however, was low. He was just offering to do what he could again when a call came through for Propper. The agent became excited and asked Branch to excuse him. On the way out the door, Branch overheard the salutation: "Is that you, Joe?" asked Propper. "Listen, are you calling from a pay phone? Okay, Give me the number of another pay phone near there and I'll call you back


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# 14-00000

FORM 30200

CABLE SEC. 15

![photo of cable security form]

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY

SAF AGEN

VR. C/IP/Dns C/PCS/ITCY C/MAB 7 727 PM 76

ACTION CORY

PAGE 01

TOR: 0722.47 Z. MAR 77

IN 208649

0 0721-152 MAR 77
FM UNITED STATES SECRET SERVICE HOS (ID/FIB)

TO CIA HOS OPERATIONS STAFF/LIAISON GROUP ATTN: GETTY SANDY-GA-1

INFO USSS LIAISON DIVISION

BT

UNCLAS CITE USSS 2830 07 MAR77 1615 EST

SUBJECT: NAME CHECKS

FILE: CO2-33115

REFERENCE IS MADE TO TELCOM THIS DATE. HEREWITH ARE NAMES FOR
NAME CHECKS RESULTS SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO IRS WINNER, THIS DIVIS
(634-5862 OR 5312 SECURE). ALL INDIVIDUALS ARE THOUGHT TO HAVE
BEEN BORN IN CUBA AND TO BE CURRENT MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY HERE OR ABROAD.

MAGUIAR FELIX 6-8-52 -Refer to FBI 8/3/77

ALFONSO-RUIZ, HECTOR FRANCISCO, 5-12-39-Refer to FBI

ALVAREZ-LAZARO JESUS ESTEBEN 12-26-49-Refer to FBI

VARCE.SIX TO LORENZO 5-9-41- Refer to FBI

VIENZA, ORLANDO 7-21-38 - refer to FBI

VELANCO HUMBERTO 4-14-40-NPII 8 mar 77

POBILLO, ARMANDO 1-4-40 - Refer to FBI

CABRERA-VEGA HECTOR ALBERTO 7-30-44-Refer to FBI

CAPRERA-VEGA, RAUL ALBERTO 7-7-43 - Refer to FBI

CARBALLO ROBERTO 12-10-38-Refer to FBI

CALATAYUD. ANTONIO 10-3-39-Refer to FBI/

CALVING, WILFREDO 2-14-50-Refer to FBI

CARBONELL-ARENES HECTOR AUGUSTO 10-1-40-ND

CARDENAS-GARCIA, JUAN JORGE 3-29-38-Refer to FBI

CARRILLO-CALLAS, GUIDO MAXIMILIANO 9-8-42 - NPII 9mar77

CARRILLO LUIS EUGENIO 11-25-38 - NI11 9mar77

CASTILLO GUSTAVO 4-28-46 Refer to FBI

CASTILLO PABLO GUSTAVO 4-28-46-NP11 9 Mar 77

CASTRO-PAZ EULALIO FRANCISCO 6-4-42 Refer to FBI

CINEA RAUL 1-15-42

VOLMENARES ANTONION 6-28-25 - Refer to FBI

CRESPO LUIS ALBERTO 7-24-41 - Refer to FBI

UPSCASTROVERDE WALDO IGNACIO 1-15-41 - Refer to FBI.

DELACOVA GONZALEZ-ABREU ANTONIO RAFAEL 11-27-58-NPI1 9MAR 77

VOZ LAKE RAMIRO - Refer to FBI

VETODES GERALDO 3-26-34- Refer to DEA

DIAZ-GOMEZ, MIGUEL ANDRES 11-10-45-Refer to FBI

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY

201-285923-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

ADMIN INTERNAL USE ONLY

T 6581 E1A026

TOR: 0722472 MAR 77

NC 55281

ELIAS-NA ZIN. JO SE 3-19-20
ENCINOSA PEDRO 4-27-49
ESPINO SA MANUEL. REV. 37 YRS. 1940
ESTRADA ARMANDO LOPEZ 3-15-39
GONZALEZ FELIPE LUIS 11-10-22
GONZALEZAVELINO LAZARO 11-10-50
GONZALEZ VALIENTE JORGE LUCILO 10-31-41
HERNANDEZ, RAUL ADOLFO 8-9-32
HERNANDEZ-RAMIREZ, VALENTIN 11-8-42
1ZQUIERDO-DIAZ NESTOR 3-20-36
JIMENEZ-ESCOBEDO, GASPAR EUGENIO 10-6-35
JUNGOSA-PEÑA RALPH 1-15-41
LABRADA RAFAEL GONZALEZ
LAZO RODRIGUEZ JESUS 5-7-46
LOPEZ AVALOS ROGEL 10 12-38-27
LOZANO BIENVENIDO 3-22-44
MANSITO GIL S. 9-1-43
MARIN-DUARTE GUSTAVO
MARIZAL, FRANCISCO 10-4-30
MARQUEZ HERNANDEZ, JUAN BALTISTA
MENDOZA ORLANDO
MORALES, RICARDO NAVARRETTE 6-14-39
MORENO RAFAEL
LUNIZ.ANTONIO-3-25-48
11 MAR 1977
NOVO-SAMPOL, GUILLERMO 6-6-39
NOVO-SAMPOLIGNACIO ROBERTO 6-7-38
CR 02 CO-CRESPO, RAMON IGNACIO 2-1-34
ORRONDC.CIRO 0.10-21-40
PARENTE, PEDRO ANTONIO 8-16-46
PARSONS ROSESTO 16-7-30
PATRICIO JOSE 7-6-47

PAZ-GELLO EDUARDO ALEJANDRO 10-23-51
PEREZ-ALAMO DUNNE
PEREZ-FRANCO. JUAN
PERS, JUL 1.0
FELIPE
PILERO-AMO 11-27-31
TAMAYO 3-9-32


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET

FORM 7.71, NSG IM6

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 7 PER

TOTAL COPIES: 19 RUN BY:

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED: LA SECRET

ADVANCE CO#: CTTE: DSM-DOO/OO/RD 1345.

ACTION:

AP FILE: 1P/DMS, 014, SIA

ACTION: SIA/FL, EPS/EC 2

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF PRECEDENCE

T 596336 EI A536 PAGE 01-01 IN 184747

TORI 1113332 FEB 77 CA PA 32198

SECRET 1113262 FEB 77 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 32192

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL KMSTONE

REFI CARACAS 32143 (HVC-7589) (W-177816)

1. FYI: AMBASSADOR WAS UNIMPRESSED WITH EITHER IMPORTANCE

OF REF INFO OR URGENCY IN GETTING IT INTO VENEZUELAN GOVT

HANDS. HE THINKS REPORT MAY REPRESENT MORE BRAGGA DOCIO ON PART

OF RICARDO MORALES THAN ACTUAL PLAN OF ACTION AND HE PRIVATELY

FEELS EXCITEMENT IN DEPARTMENT OVER THIS SORT OF THING IS BIT OF

TEMPEST IN A TEAPOT. NONETHELESS, TO DO OUR PART, HE ASKED STATION

TO GIVE GIST OF REF TO WKSCARLET-9 AT NEXT LIAISON MEETING

SCHEDULED FOR 11 OR 12 FEBRUARY.

2. FILE: 201-0285923, E2 IMP DET,

![diagram]

SECRET

RECORD COPY

201-285923

11 Feb 77


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF CONF: LA8 INFO: FILE Hotams, pes/INT, SIA/FL

DATE THE GROUP: 0922532 DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 984274 DISSEM BY: 29

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS. Y

UNINTEL INTEL KMSTONE Y

REF: CARACAS 32143 IN 1778161 EHVC-75893 Y

1. ON 9 FEB, THE ACTING DEPUTY FOR ARA IN STATE INQUIRED RE THE POSSIBILITY AND FEASIBILITY OF PASSING GIST OF REF INTEL TO APPROPRIATE REP OF VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT ON AN URGENT BASIS. Y

2. HEADQUARTERS HAS AGREED TO FORWARD REQUEST TO STATION WITH SUGGESTION THAT THE AMBASSADOR BE CONSULTED AND THAT HE MAY WISH TO HAVE THE EMBASSY PASS THE INFORMATION DIRECTLY TO AN APPROPRIATE VENEZUELAN OFFICIAL AS COMING FROM PERSONS OUTSIDE OF VENEZUELA. Y

3. PLEASE ADVISE ACTION TAKEN. Y

4. FILE: 201-0265923. E2 IMPDET.H

DATE: 9 FEB 77
ORIG: T.J.DESMOND:RP
UNIT: C/LA/PNC
EXT: 1033

AC/LA/OPS - J. MATHEUS (DRAFT)

C/LA/RR - L.E. BORING (DRAFT)

T-J.DESMOND (DRAFT)
C/LA/PNC

RECORD COPY

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: nn>>cc


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# FORM 3005

DISSEM.BY IIDER J

TOTAL COMPES

.:SECRET..

EIDET

Ca. B1006687

PERSON ORBIT CTIFIED

AGENCY MESSAGE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED ROSTO

ACTION UT

LA 10 FILE, VR, ROES, EPS/EG 2. UP/DMS, IID, PCS/INT 5.

ADDO/D, CI 4, CA 4. CA/SOG 4, SIA, SIA/IC.

ACTION

PCS/ITC 4.

T 579185 E1A789

PAGE 1

IN 177816

CARA 32143

TOR: 24 20 552 FEB 77

SECRET 2422322 FEB 77 INTEL

TOEIRDB-315/01346-77
HVC-7589

CITE CARACAS 32143

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY LA/MIAMI

UNINTEL INTEL KMST-ONE

SUPDATA:

ZRWAHOO FOR SOURCE DESCRIPTION FOR WKDIET-2. SOURCE
PARA 2 WKDIET/WK DIET-5 DIRECTLY. SOURCE PARAS 4 AND
5; WKDIET/WKDIET-2 DIRECTLY. NOT FOR LIAISON.
OD OBJECTIVE: J.1. NO INDEX. FILE: 201-0285923,
(NOTE: SHOWN TO AMBASSADOR AND FBI AT CARACAS.)
CL. BY 235133.

FILED:

0420322 XXXXX

(IID COMMENT: LIFTER CABLE SENT.)

![photo of a chart with information about the case]

SECRET

RECORD COPY

201-285923
4 Jul 77


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET (When Filiod in)

![INTELLIGENCE DIRECTORATE OF OPERATIONS logo]

# Intelligence Informaation Cable

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE INR 345/Nia idem PAGE 1 OF 3 PAGES
(SY/I/PIB.E/TT/OA) SS/ID FBI SECUR IANS DOA FAA(ACS-20)
Classified by Rougeyed Reporting Otto nomor frem Generel Decifion Schedule of 10 11632 Examprion
Category 38 Impees-ble to Determine Daste of Auto Dсловиси.ся.
FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT
TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

CITE TOFIRDB-315/01346-77
DIST 4 FEBRUARY 1977

REPORT CLASS SECRET WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--

DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIG-INATORS.

COUNTRY: VENEZUELA

DOI: LATE JANUARY -3 FEBRUARY 1977

SUBJECT: POSSIBLE ATTEMPT BY RI CARCO MORALES TO GAIN THE RELEASE
OF CUSAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH BY FORCE

ACQ: VENEZUELA, CARACAS (4 FEBRUARY 1977) FIELD NO. HVC-7589.

SOURCE: SEE BELOW.

1. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPH 2: A CUBAN EXILE WHO MAINTAINS CLOSE
   CONTACT WITH OTHER EXILES. HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

2. IN LATE JANUARY 1977 RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, A
   CUBAN-EXILE WHO IS AN OFFICIAL OF THE VENEZUELAN DIRECTORATE FOR THE
   SERVICES. OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION (DISIP), SAID THAT HE IS
   PLANNING TO GET CUBAN EXILE LEADER ORLANDO BOSCH OUT OF JAIL
   BY FORCE. THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, MORALES. SAID, INTENDS TO TRY
   AND. CONVICT 20SCH OF CHARGES IN CONNECTION WITH THE 6 OCTOSER 1976
   BOMBING OF A CUBANA AIRLINER AND INTENDS TO USE BOSCH AS A SCAPEGOAT.
   MORALES SAID THAT HE IS CURRENTLY ENLISTING THE SUPPORT OF UN-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

FORM 3007 CESOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET

IN 177816
TDFIR DB-315/01346-77
PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

SPECIFIED CUBAN EXILES TO CARRY OUT HIS PLANS TO GAIN BOSCH'S RELEASE.
(SOURCE COMMENT: MORALES DID NOT EXPLAIN WHAT TYPE OF FORCE WOULD BE USED TO GAIN BOSCH'S RELEASE. MORALES IS AN UNSTABLE INDIVIDUAL AND IS CAPABLE OF USING FORCE TO GAIN HIS ENDS.)

3. SOURCE OF PARAGRAPHS 4 AND 5: A VENEZUELAN WITH A WIDE VARIETY OF CONTACT'S AMONG VENEZUELAN SECURITY OFFICIALS. HIS RELIABILITY HAS NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED.

4. ON 3 FEBRUARY 1977 MORALES SAID THAT HE INTENDED TO LEAVE VENEZUELA FOR MIAMI, FLORIDA, LATER THAT DAY. MORALES SAID THAT HE EXPECTED TO BE IN THE UNITED STATES FOR APPROXIMATELY ONE WEEK.
   (SOURCE COMMENT: THE REASON FOR HIS TRIP IS NOT KNOWN.)

5. MORALES CONTINUES TO RECEIVE HIS DISIP SALARY DESPITE AN EARLIER SCANDAL CONCERNING HIS DISIP STATUS. (FIELD COMMENT: FOR AN EARLIER REPORT ON MORALES SEE HVC-7548, TDFIRDB-315//11772-76, OF MID-NOVEMBER 1976. FROM ANG THER SOURCE OF UNDETERMINED RELIABILITY.). MORALES HA'S RECENTLY RENTED AN EXPENSIVE APARTMENT IN A FASHIONABLE AREA OF CARACAS. THE RENT ON WHICH IS ALMOST EQUAL TO HIS DISIP SALARY.

6. FIELD DISSEM: EMBASSY, FBI AT, CARACAS.

REPORT CLASS SECRET--AARNING NOTICE SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FORM 3007 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET
(classification)

IN 177816
TDFIR D8-315/01346-77
PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

FURTHER DISSEMINATION AND USE OF THIS INFORMATION SUBJECT TO CONTROLS STATED AT BEGINNING AND END OF REPORT.

SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONAL'S-
NOT RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATORS.

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER, XGDS-2.

ADVANCE COPY TRANSMITTED TO: STATE, DIA, ARMY, NAVY, AIR, JCS, NSA, SUS, TREASURY, CIA/OPSCEN, SS/ID, FBI, I&NS-DDA-FAA.

SECRET

S-215923


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Caracas

Chief, Latin America Division

Ricardo Morales Navarette (201-285923).

WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

1.  The information provided below is taken from a Santo Domingo Station liaison report transmitted to Headquarters under HDCA-11074, dated 29 November 1976. The information dated 29 August 1976 was received by the liaison service from one of its agents assigned to Miami, Florida. It is being sent to you for information only. All information below was reportedly stated in testimony at the trial of the Cuban terrorist Rolando Otero in Jacksonville, Florida, and Antonio Gonzalez had obtained immunity from prosecution. The declarations he made were corroborated by Cubans Ciro Orizondo and Manuel Revuelta, former comrades of Otero in the Frente de Liberacion Nacional Cubano (FLNC).

2.  According to Antonio Gonzalez, there have to be in Miami up to 500 pro-Castro agents operating; that in a supposed plot to kill Fidel Castro in Venezuela, there had been with him and Rolando Otero, a Cuban named Ricardo Morales and infiltrating into the affair, he tried to frustrate the plan. Gonzalez also said that Morales, supposedly worked for the "CIAin the Congo" and actually is an agent of the Government of Venezuela, used To investigate those Cubans who enter and exit from Venezuela. Gonzalez also said that in reality, Morales is a Castro agent.

Distribution:
Orig & 2 COS, Caracas

![record copy stamp]

|                               |                                  |
| ----------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| HVCM-10659                    | 24 January 1977.                 |
| SECRET                        | 201-285923                       |
| C/LA/PNC/V--Robert Andrews:pm | EXT. 1715                        |
|                               |                                  |
|                               |                                  |
| C/LA/PNC                      | Charlotte Fastes-Videla DISPATCH |

Int. Dist:
1 - Chrono
1 - IP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

State cable dated 15 Feb 77
State cable dated 1 May 77
State cable dated 22 Nov.??
State cable dated 22 Nov 77
FBI Report dated 26 April 77
Re: Ricardo Anibal Morales Navanette
Registration Act
FBI Report dated 21 July 77
Re: Unknown Subjects: Explosion in
Car driven by Orlando Letelier-
Victim (Deceased), etc., 21 Sept.

THIRD AGENCY MATERIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

DD DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DD FILE. PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCUMENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED. FROM ID/FILES.

MORALES NAVARRETTE, RICARDO
201-0295923 075-008-010
SEX M CARA-33792
27 JUL 77
HVC-07716
-04

LOC VENE. FORMER OFFICIAL OF DIRECTORATE FOR SERVICES OF INTELLIGENCE AND PREVENTION /DISIDIP/. WARNED MARS OF COORDINATED UNITED REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION /CORU/, GUSTAVO CASTILLO AND FRANK CASTRO /201-0742365/ OF DISID REPPRESSION AGAINST CUBANS IN VENE.

DATE 09 SEP 77 09538675

201-285923

SECRET E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
COSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANUTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSCAS PERFORMING NAME-TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE COCU-
MEAT FRCY WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPARED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTEC
FRCM IP/FILES.

MORALES, RICARDO NAVARRETTE
201-0285923
SEX M

200-011-009/43
00NC-00066/77
20 SEP 17
P11

ENTERED LSA LATE 60. RECRUITED AS RADIO
OPERATOR AND MBR OF PARAMILITARY INFILTRATION
TEAM FCA MISSIONS INTO CLEA BLT NEVER USED.

CATE LC FEB 78

09579154

211-285923

SECRET

E2 IMPDET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

55/42/

SECRET

FRP:
STAFF

ACTION: LA-8 (081) INFO: FILE, VR, CI-4, EPS/EG-2, IP/DMS-2, ODPD-D,
SE-8, SIA, SIA/FL, (28/n)

78 0207450 PAGE 001 IN 0207450
TOP: 112030Z JAN 78 CARA 35189

SECRET 112005Z JAN 78 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 35189

TO: DIRECTOR.

WNINTEL RNMUM CKLEG WKSCARLET

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 144358
B. CARACAS 35019 TOO OLD
C. CARACAS 33784 TOO OLD

1. STATION LIAISON OFFICER MET WITH SUBJECT OF 201-0952786 AS PART OF ASSESSMENT OF SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF SOVIET PERSONNEL AND ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA, AND TO DETERMINE HER POTENTIAL AS POSSIBLE UNILATERAL SUPPORT ASSET AGAINST SOVIET AND BLOC TARGETS.

2. DURING DISUCSSIONS, SUBJECT MENTIONED THAT ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS IN PAST SHE HAD NOTED ON SURVEILLANCE REPORTS OF CUBAN EMBASSY THAT A VEHICLE BEARING LICENSE PLATE REGISTERED TO MINISTRY OF INTERIOR ENTERED WITH SOME FREQUENCY. HOWVER, ATTEMPTS TO IDENTIFY THE PERSON TO WHOM VEHICLE ALLOCATED ALWAYS WERE RETURND TO HER WITH INSTRUCTIONS TO FORGET THE ENTRY AND TO STOP MAKING REFERENCES TO IT IN HER REPORTS. SHE FINALLY WAS ADVISED THAT THE CAR WAS USED BY (AT. THAT TIME) COMISARIO RICARDO M O R A L E S NAVARETTE (201-0285923), AND THẤT SHE SHOULD REFRAIN FROM MAKING FURTHER INQUIRIES OR FORM INCLUDING THAT LICENSE PLATE IN HER REPORTS. SHORTLY AFTERWARDS, SUBJECT WAS REMOVED FROM RESPONSIBILITY OF MONITORING AND ANALYZING CUBAN ACTIVITIES IN VENEZUELA AND. RESTRICTED TO THE SOVIETS AND SOVIET BLOC.

3. FILE: 201-0952786; 201-0285923. E2, IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

> [Figure: Stamp with the text CROSS FILE COPY FOR 201-285923 DO NOT DESTROY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY:

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 13-2

SECRET

DATE-TIME GROUP: 021635Z
CIA

CONF: 4/1A8 INFO: FILE 4/1P/ems, 4CSW/10, 4C1, yPcs

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 133734 DISSEM BY: 44

TO: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION.

ATTENTION: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

SECRET WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS

INVOLVED//NO FOREIGN DISSEN

CIR-316/04224-77

SUBJECT: RICARDO ANIBAL MORALES NAVARRETE: FOREIGN COUNTER-
INTELLIGENCE - VENEZUELA

REF: FBI CABLE DATED 221805Z NOV 77, SAME SUBJECT

1. YOU ARE ADVISED, IN RESPONSE TO THE REFERENCED QUERY, THAT
   THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY HAS NO OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN THE
   ABOVE SUBJECT. OUR STATION IN CARACAS NOTES THAT THE SUBJECT MIGHT
   FALSELY CLAIM SOME SORT OF RELATIONSHIP WITH THE AGENCY IF ARRESTED,
   BUT IN FACT NO SUCH RELATIONSHIP EXISTS

2. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER: EXEMPT FROM
   GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE E.O. 11652 EXEMPTION: CATEGORY
   S3 (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION-

CABLE SEC: PLEASE PROVIDE A COPY TO IP FOR FILING IN 201-285923
AND 19-2-18-1

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

CROSS FILE CODE FOR 201-285923

SECRET

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USP OF

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

PAGE 2 OF PAGES

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE TIME GROUP CITE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CIA

133734. 
DISSEM BY:

ORIG: LA/CO/CI (FAUST X3325): COORD: DC/LA/CO

C/LA/VCE/V (AMORI), DC/LA/SR (DISTEFANO): AUTH: C/LAD (WARREN):

REF: C/PCS/LSH/ID ( KUHN

DATE: 30 NOVEMBER 1977

ORIG: OUEN FAUST

UNIT?: LA/CO/CI

EXT: 1325

C/PCS/LSH/ID

RELEASED OFFICER

DC/LA/CO/

C/LA/VCE/V

DC/LA/SR

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

LA, ET3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE CAB SLOTTED

RF FILE VA

STAFF

IN 477336

CARA 34827

37524 - 1A259

ES/EC Zaln

NPCS

PAGE 01-01


TUR: 281405Z NOV 77

SECRET 281357Z NOV 77 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 34827

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WM INTEL RNMUM.

REF: DIRECTOR 130272

1. THE FBI IS FREE TO ARREST MORALES: WE HAVE NO OPS INTEREST. BELIEVE IT POSSIBLE HE MAY CLAIM RELATIONSHIP WITH RTACTION WHICH, OF COURSE, IS SIMPLY NOT TRUE.

2. FILE: 201-0950534, E2 IMPDET

![LAFNC/V]

![201-285423]

![28 ION 77]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

COMP: LAS INFO: FILE TROMS, LS/10, 1pcs, C14, EPS/EG2

DATE-TIME GROUP

251731Z DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

130272 DISSEM BY:44

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS.Y

UNINTEL RNMUM Y

REF: DIRECTOR 1*1 4 130271

1. SUBJECT REF IS LIKELY TO BE ARRESTED BY THE FBI FOR FAILURE
   TO REGISTER UNDER THE FOREIGN AGENT REGISTRATION ACT. WITH YOUR
   CONCURRENCE, WE PLAN TO TELL THE BUREAU THAT WE HAVE NO OPS INTEREST
   IN MORALES. PLS ADVISE.Y

2. FILE: 201-0950534. E2 IMPDET-H

ORIG: AC/LA/VCE (AMORI X1033); AUTH: PCS/LSN (KUHN); REL:

AC/LA/VCE (AMORI).

*SIG CENTER: PLS INSERT DIR NUMBER

> [Figure] Travel Program.
> ![Chart of the travel program]

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1977

ORIG: ALBERT/AMORI:CK

UNIT: AC/LA/VCE

EXT: -1033

AC7LA/VCE

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

201-285423.

25 NOV 77.

PCS/LSN

E 2 IMPDET

RECORD COPY

CL BY 007667


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: */LA 8 INFO: FILE 4/15~/10

DATE-TIME GROUP
2517312

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
130271

0 NO INDES

0 RETURN TO PER *Sop*

0 #132

TO: CARACAS.Y

UNINTEL RNMUM Y

1. FOLLOWING IS TEXT OF FBI CABLE DATED 22 NOVEMBER 1977.

THIS INFO IS FOR ADDRESSEE BACKGROUND ONLY, NOT TO BE DISCUSSED OR
OTHERWISE DISCLOSED OUTSIDE RTACTION WITHOUT PRIOR HQS AUTHORIZATION:

|SIG CENTER: PLS TRANSMIT ATTACHED FBI CABLE - IN 473160 -
BEGINNING WITH "RICARDO ANIBAL MORALES NAVARRETE: FOREIGN.

2. NO FILE. E2 IMPDET.A

BKSRNERE&BRBORIG: LA/VCE/V {MORGAN X1715}; AUTH: PCS/LSN {KUHN};

REL: AC/LA/VCE CAMORI).8

*COPY ATTACHED

![signature of Morales]

DATE: 23 NOVEMBER 1977
ORIG: RUSSELL MORGAN:CK
UNIT: LA/VCE/V
EXT: -1715

![signature of AC/LA/VCE]

SECRET

![signature of authenticator officer]

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY 007667


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

CODE MOSSEM D-33 PER
PERSONUT NOTIFIEC
TOTAL COPEH 1-3
SECRET
..15 1900
FILE VR GIRIAUS GINES AND!!
C/LEE ACCIM ga-1534
C/CA3 C/C14 C/EFS/E52 C/FR4
T 2478:3 E1A236 PAGE 1
TOR:2618522 JUL 77
Scopies
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER T
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBI
STAFF PRECEDENC!
IN 358141
CARA 33796
SECRET 2818322 JUL 77 STAFF
CITE CARACAS 33796
TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR.
WN INTEL RYBAT MHSPIKE WKBOXER
REFS: A. CAR AC AS. 33798(357055)
B. CARACAS 33793 (HVC-7716)(In 357051)
WikBoxelops
75-8-15
75-5-9
F-7
1. FURTHER DEV EL OPMENTS SINCE REFS:
   A. WKDIET-5 REPORTS THAT ON 24 JULY WKTANGO-1 STATED
   THAT, WITH PRESIDENT PEREZ BACKING, HE IS DECLARING WAR ON
   CUBAN EXILES AND IF ANY THING UNTOWARD HAPPENS, HE WILL.....
   TAKE "BLOOD BATH FROM NEW YORK TO CARACAS." HE ALSO MENTIONED
   AS ADDITIONAL IMPLIED THREAT THATO CUBAN SUPERTHUG, RICARDO
   MORALE X NAVARETIE, HAS BEEN FULLLY REINSTATED IN DISIP.
   E. INFLUENTIAL LOCAL CUBAN EXILES ARE IN SOMEWHAT
   OF AN UPROAR OVER WHAT THEY REGARD AS POTENTIAL CAMPAIGN OF
   REPRESSION IN VENEZUELA AND ARE TRYING TO ENLIST SUPPORT OF
   BOTH COPEI OPPOSITION.PARTY AND EX-PRESIDENT BETANCOURT.
   STAUNCH ANTI-CASTRO-COMMUNIST, TO OFFSET MOVES OF PRESIDENT
   PEREE WHOM THEY CONSIDER TO BE IN SED WITH. CASTRO.
   COPEI HAS ALLEGEDLY COME OUT FULLY IN SUPPORT OF LOCAL CUBAN
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

## PAGE £2
TOR:261852Z JUL 77
IN 356141
CARA 33796

EXILE COMMUNITY: BETANCOURT HHAS NOTIFIED THEM THAT HE IS STUDYING THE SITUATION BEFORE REPLYING.

C. AMBASSADOR MET PRESIDENT PEREZ FOR BREAKFAST MORNING 28 JULY. NOTHING WAS MENTIONED ABOUT CUBAN EXILE SITUATION.

2. WHAT WE COULD HAVE AS BASIS OF THIS WHOLE SITUATION IS CUBAN FORGERIES OF LETTERS FROM BOSCH TO BRING PRESSURE ON CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IN VENEZUELA WHITE REMAINS ALMOST TOTALLY ANTI-CASTRO. IT IS INTERSTING TO NOTE LETTERS PASSED BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO PRESIDENT PEREZ WERE TYPED, NOT HANDWRITTEN, AND ONLY SIGNED BY BOSCH. IN ANY EVENT, AMBASSADOR STRONGLY DISTRUSTS WKTANGO-1 IN ANYTHING INVOLVING CUSAN EXILES AND SUSPECTS THAT RICARDO MORALES IS EMOTIONALLY, IF NOT MENTALLY, UNSTABLE AND A CUBAN AGENT(SO DO WE). COS DISCUSSED GENERAL SITUATION WITH AMBASSADOR THIS MORNING. AS OF NOW, AMBASSADOR, DOES NOT WANT TO GIVE ANY INFORMMATION TO VENEZUELANS ON CUBAN EXILES EXCEPT ON ESTABLISHED TERRORISTS AND ADVANCE NOTICE OF IMPENDING TERRORIST ACTIONS, LEAST OF ALL DOES HE WANT US TO DEAL WITH AKTANGO-1 ON THIS SUBJECT.

3. SINCE THERE APPEARS TO DE SEVERAL GAMES WITHIN GAMES BEING PLAYED. HERE AND SOURCE OF REF 6 IS WATANGO-1 (ONE OF THE MAJOR SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

PERSON

ADVANCED
ACTION UNIT

SECRET

STAFF

..T 047813 E1A236 PAGE 03-03 IN 358141

TOR:281852Z JUL 77. CARA 33796

PARTICIPANTS,) RECOMMEND REF B NOT BE

DISSEMINATED UNTIL PICTURE IS CLARIFIED.

4. FILE: 75-120-26. E2, IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

ALFIN

FILE

STAFF

T 038993 El A651 PAGE 01 IN 354509

TOR:252324Z JUL 77 CARA 33784

SECRET 2521512 JUL 77 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 33784

TO: DIRECTOR INCO FR/NEW YORK.

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM

REFS: A. DIRECTOR. 269199

B. CARACAS 35655 (IN 341549)

1. ANY ADDITIONAL INFO WE MAY OBTAIN ON NATURE OF MORALES CONTACT WITH SLFAT-1 WILL BE CABLED TO ADDRESSEES.

AT THIS POINT ALL WE HAVE IS INFO PROVIDED IN REF B.

2. WHILE IT POSSIBLE, WE DON'T THINK THAT MORALEST.... CONTACT WITH SLFAT-1 IS RESULT OF A WKTANGO-1 DIRECTED RECRUITMENT OP. WE ARE MORE INCLINED TO BELIEVE THAT-TH IS IS SOME SURT OF STRANGE LIAIOSON OR DOUBLE-AGENT OPERATION, PROBABLY SUGGESTED BY MORALES HIMSELF, OSTENSIBLY TO MAKE HIMSELF USEFUL TO WASCARLET. IT HAS BEEN MENTIONED BEFORE. AND WE HAVE LONG SUSPECTED, WITHOUT ANY HARD EVIDENCE. THAT MORALES MAY SE A CASTRO CUBAN AGENT. IT IS CUITE POSSIBLE THAT HE HAS CONNED THE VENEZUELAN GOVERNMENT, OR HKTANGO-1. INTO BELIEVING THAT HE HAS SOME SPECIAL ENTRE WITH SLFAT-1. ALL-IN-ALL BASED ON OUR PRESENT KNOWLEDGE OF THE CHARACTERS

SECRET

201-285723

DO NOT DESTROY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

|          | RF  | FILE | VH  |
| -------- | --- | ---- | --- |
| ACTION # |     |      |     |

T 238993 E14651 PAGE 22-22 IN 354509
TOR: 25 2324 Z JUL 77 CARA 33784

INVOLVED AND THE PRESSURES OF THE MOMENT. WE THINK THAT MORALES IS MORE PRONE TO REACH AN ACCOMMODATION WITH SLFAT-1 THAN WKTANGO-1 IS OF GIVING A SECOND TRY TO THE RECRUITMENT OF SLFAF-1.

3. FILE: 201-0067860: 201-0328945: 231-2285923.

E2. IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

T 510745 E14528 PAGE 21 IN 256922
TOR:2922342 APR 77 CARA 32949

SECRET 2922252 APR 77 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 32949

TO: DIRECTOR, LA/MIAMI

RYBAT WNINTEL REAM

1. ON 28 APRIL 1977 WKDIET-5 REPORTED THAT RICARDO
   MORALES NAVARRETE (SUBJECT OF 201-2285923), AKA
   "EL MONO", IS RUMORED TO HAVE KILLED IN MIAMI A CUBAN
   EXILE BY THE NAME OF ROBERTO PARSONS. WKDIET-5
   SAYS THAT PARSONS WORKED FOR BKHERALD AND UNDERTOOK
   SEVERAL CLANDESTINE TRIPS TO CUBA. HE SAID AT TIMES PARSONS
   HELPED GET PEOPLE OUT OF CUBA FOR A PRICE. PARSONS HAS
   BEEN MISSING SINCE DECEMBER 1976. THE EXACT REASON FOR
   HIS ALLEGED MURDER IS UNKNOWN.

2. FOLLOWING ARE TRACES ON ROBERTO PARSONS: ACCORDING
   TO JMLAVE-1302, 16 FEBRUARY 1968. AN AMCLEVE-15
   MIAMI CONTACT WAS PROBABLY IDENTICAL WITH ROBERTO PARSONS
   RAMIREZ, BORN 12 JULY 1930 IN GUANTANAMO. PARSONS WAS A
   BKHERALD AGENT FROM 1965 THROUGH 1967 WHEN HE WAS TERMINATED
   ON 30 NOVEMBER WITHOUT PREJUDICE. HE WAS USED IN EXFILTRATION
   AND INFILTRATION OPERATIONS AND OCCASIONALLY REPORTED GRATUITOUSLY

SECRET

RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAI
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROMIDITEL

T 510745 EJACCS PAGE 22-22 IN 266922

TOR: 2922342 APR 77 CARA 32949

ON THE DSE AND DGI.

3. INDEX PARSONS, FILE: 75-120-28, 201-0285923.

E2. IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

16:

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: LAB INFO: FILE 042337 DIRECTOR

IAMS, Cit, LSNIIO, CHAS,

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

029666

DISSEM BY: 41

NO INDEX 0

RETURN TO PER

FILES 0

TO: CARACAS INFO LA/MIAMI.Y

UNINTEL KMSTONE Y

REFS: A. CARACAS 32949 [IN 266922]

B. CARACAS 32958 [IN 268419] *(NOT NEEDED LA/MIA)Y*

1. PARA 2 BELOW IS THE TEXT OF A MESSAGE WHICH WAS SENT TO THE
   FBI ON 4 MAY, BASED ON REFS. PLEASE PASS THE INFORMATION TO THE
   LEGATT CARACAS: Y

2. A. ACCORDING TO A VENEZUELAN SOURCE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS
   NOT BEEN ESTABLISHED, RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, CUBAN-BORN
   NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZEN, IS RUMORED TO HAVE KILLED ROBERTO
   PARSONS. ANOTHER CUBAN EXILE, IN MIAMI, FLORIDA. SOURCE SAID
   THAT PARSONS HAS BEEN MISSING SINCE DECEMBER 1976 AND THAT THE
   REASON FOR HIS ALLEGED MURDER IS UNKNOWN. Y

B. PARSONS IS PROBABLY IDENTIFIABLE WITH ROBERTO

PARSONS RAMIREZ, BORN, 10 JULY 1930 IN GUANTANAMO, CUBA. HE
WAS OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY FROM JULY 1965 UNTIL
NOVEMBER 1967. Y

C. A DIFFERENT SOURCE WHO IS USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTED ON:

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

B 201-779687

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RECORD COPY

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 007255


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
STAFF
CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE-TIME GROUP
DIRECTOR
029666

PAGE 2 OF PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
0 INDEX DISSEM BY:
0 NO INDEX
0 RETURN TO PER
0 D FILES #

29 APRIL 1977 THAT MORALES HAS GONE INTO HIDING IN THE UNITED STATES
TO AVOID A COURT APPEARANCE IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTIGATION OF
THE DEATH OF FORMER CHILEAN OFFICIAL ORLANDO LETELIER. Y

D. THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE
LEGAL ATTACHE IN CARACAS. NO FURTHER DISSEMINATION IS BEING MADE. Y

3. AMONG THE CLOSE ASSOCIATES PARSONS LISTED IN HIS PRO PART I
   COMPLETED IN JULY 1965 IS ANTONIO BUSTILLO PEREZ (201-0756656), A
   MEMBER OF THE WKTANGO-1 GROUP. (WASHINGTON 026922) Y

4. FILE: 201-0285923; X REF: 201-0779687(PARSONS). E2 IMPDET.A
   COMMENT: REPORTED ABOVE INFORMATION AND STATION TRACES WHICH INDI-
   CATED THAT PARSONS WAS OF PREVIOUS OPERATIONAL INTEREST TO JMWAVE.

ORIG: C/LA/PNC/V(ANDREWS); COORD: BBC/LA/OPS-
LA/COG(LATRASH), LA/CAR(CAMES); AUTH: PC/LA/PNC(DESMOND); REL: AC/LA
(LAUDER)-8

MAY
22
WOW

DATE: 4 MAY 77
ORIG: ROBERT ANDREWS:PM
UNIT: C/LA/PNC/V
EXT: X1715

AC/LA

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

BC/LA/OPS
LA/COG Latrall
LA/CAR

COORDINATING OFFICERS

C/LA/PNC:
2: JMDET
CL BY: 007255


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ORLY 18.2

OMF O 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

CONF GLA 8 INFO: FILE 4PIDMS, 4LSNIID, 4PCS, 4CI.2, 4PCSITC4

MESSAGE REPERENCE NUMBER
030328
DISSEM BY:41

TO: FBI//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION INFO DEPT OF STATE//SY/TAG, IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE//INTELLIGENCE DIVISION.Y

SECRET--WARNING NOTICE - SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND

METHODS INVOLVED--NOT RELEASABLE TO FOREIGN NATIONALS--NOT

RELEASABLE TO CONTRACTORS OR CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANTS--DISSEMINATION AND EXTRACTION OF INFORMATION CONTROLLED BY ORIGINATOR Y

CIR-316/01585-77 Y

SUBJECT: RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE Y

ON 23 APRIL 1977.

1. A VENEZUELAN SOURCE WHOSE RELIABILITY HAS REPORTED THAT

NOT BEEN ESTABLISHEDA RICARDO MORALES NAVARRETE, CUBAN-BORN NATURALIZED VENEZUELAN CITIZENS IS RUMORED TO HAVE KILLED

ROBERTO PARSONS. ANOTHER CUBAN EXILE、IN MIAMI, FLORIDA.

SOURCE SAID THAT PARSONS HAS BEEN MISSING SINCE DECEMBER 1976 AND THAT THE REASON FOR HIS ALLEGED MURDER IS UNKNOWN. Y

2. PARSONS IS PROBABLY IDENTIFIABLE WITH ROBERTO PARSONS

RAMIREZ, BORN 10 JULY 1930 IN GUANTANAMO, CUBA. HE WAS OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST TO THIS AGENCY FROM JULY 1965 UNTIL NOVEMBER 1967.

VENEZUELAN

3. A DIFFERENT SOURCE WHO IS USUALLY RELIABLE REPORTED ON 29.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

B 201-779687

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

![Record Copy]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HARDLING INDICATOR

CONF: INFO: FILE

CIA 030328

PAGE 2 OF PAGES 2

MESSAVE REPERENCE NUUSS务

DISSEM BY:

0 INDEX

0 NO INDEX

0 RETURN TO PER

0 IP FILES #

APRIL 1977 THAT MORALES HAS GONE INTO HIDING IN THE UNITED STATES TO AVOID A COURT APPEARANCE IN CONNECTION WITH THE INVESTIGATION OF THE DEATH OF FORMER CHILEAN OFFICIAL ORLANDO LETELIER. Y

4. THE ABOVE INFORMATION IS BEING MADE AVAILABLE TO THE LEGAL ATTACHE IN CARACAS. NO FURTHER DISSEMINATION IS BEING MADE. Y

5. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.٥٠ 11652 EXEMPTION CATEGORY S B (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION. XGDS-201

BASED ON: PARAGRAPHS ONE AND TWO: CARACAS 32949 (IN-266922)

WKDIET CWKDIET-5)

PARAGRAPH THREE: CARACAS 32958 (IN-2684193

WKMAYOR CWKSCARLET-9)

OBJECTIVE: J-1

ORIG: LA/PNC (KENNER X9454); COORD: DC/LA/PNC (DESMOND)'; C/LA/CO
(LATRASH): C/LA/AN (BEARDSLEY); C/LA/OPS (DI STEFANO); PCS/ITC
(WARNER - TELECOORD) AUTH: AC/LAD (LAUDER); REL: C/PCS/LSN C

DC/LA/PNC

C/LA/COG

C/LA/AN

C/LA/OPS

PCS/ITC - (E. WARNER - TELECOORD)

DATE: 3 MAY 1977

ORIG H. KENNER LU

UNJ: LA/PNC

EXT: 9454

C/PCS/LSN

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

ARR

CALAD

2MFCET

CLRY: (07255

> [Figure: Hand written text on the right side of the page with arrows and underlines. Mentions: LA/Reg, ET-3 Regin A, Attn: Is Abelle]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)