# SECRET

6 November 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Special Affairs Stall

SUBJECT : AMWORLD--Project JMHART

1. Chief, WH/7 has tentatively offered the services of CIA contract personnel assigned to this project--principally those of the Director of the Panamerican Foundation, Mr. Curtis Wilgus--to serve as a channel to ex-fresident Figueres and Foreign Minister Uduber in promoting the acceptability of AMWORLD and AMBIDDY-1 by the moderate left. Under the terms of the JMHART Froject, CIA, through Curtis Wilgue, will be able to influence the composition of the student body of the School for Inter-American Development. It is proposed that Wilgus would tell Figueres and Cauber that it is intended to also enroll Cubane in the school and that in the opinion of Wiloue they should be drawn from exile organizations known to be dedicated to democratic principles, such as Artime's MRR, Manolo Kay's JURE, the MRP and MDC. It is unlikely that Figueres and Cduber would demur. In any case, their demurrais could be overruled. The prominent mention of the MRR as a cradle of democratic ideas and the actual inclusion of students selected by Artime would postulate acceptance of the bikk and of Artime as exponents of a political philosophy acceptable to the mode- rate left. Any excoriation of Artime for having allied himself with the Somozas would be blunted if the MRR forms a part of the student body fand conceivably the faculty) of the School of Inter-American Development.

2. I intend to suggest to Artime that he pay his respects to Figueres in Cambridge, of course without alluding to the school project. The purpose of the call would, quite frankly, be to butter up Figueres.

# SECRET

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

- 2 -

All the information I have been able to gather suggests that the combi-cation of Manos Harin/Figueres, as far as Washington is concerned, is unbeatable and that Artime has little choice but to align himself with their way of looking at things--or at least to pay lip service to it.

3. Another angle I would like to explore to President Betancourt. The more I read of his accomplishments as president, the more impressed I am. That would you think of having Artime, armed with a letter of introduction from Figueres, pay Betancourt a call before he relinquishes the presidency. Artime's approach would not be that of a supplicant or solicitor of support, but that of a young man making a pilgrimage, sitting at the feet of a revolutionary who has been successful, absorbing knowledge of how it was done. He could ask Betancourt, after he is out from under the daily grind of government, to address himself to the problems of post-Castro Cube. He could invite him to chair a seminar attended by the MRR leadership. The objective would, of course, be to involve Betancourt in the affairs of the MRK, without wutting his name on the masthead and without asking him to contribute anything but reflections of his lustre as a Latin American leader who bequeathed his country & constitutional and democratic regime. Undoubtedly Artline will have to cast off ideological ballast in order to accommodate his reluctant sponsors (liqueres, Betancourt), but Havana vaut bien une messe." As a minimum objective, Artime would in any case have to strive to neutralise the latent animosities of the moderate left, denying Manolo Kay an unchallenged ascendancy in monopolizing its support, which he can probably set for the asking.

4. A welcome by-product of the resuscibation of JHART, is "Combate, "an influential periodical with strong readership appeal in Latin America among elements of the moderate left, edited by Monje, A German national named Dr. Erich Hersog who is a member of the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) has been lecturing in San Jose on an "Ideological Inquiry into Communiern," his program, Indirectly sponsored by the Federal Republic, will be absorbed by JMHART te wields considerable influence in molding the thinking of Central America's left of center leadership. The First Secretary of the Israeli Embassy in Guatemala has also been mentioned as influential among the intellectual elite. A Fuerto Rican named santiago Polante


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

-3-

(President of the Assembly) is Munos Maria's man in sponsoring JMHART, and is quoted as having referred to Figueres as the guiding light, overshadowing all others.

Henry D. Hecksher
SAS/SO

cc: WH/7
SAS/SO/SB
SAS/SO/AR
DC/SAS/MOB

SECRET

> [Figure: Cropped stamp of the document that reads "C/NF 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification"]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)