# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

DIRECTOR

MEXICO CITY

CAC 3

ADDP, C/CIOP 4, C/4L INT, C/TIT/INT, C/FE 6, C/SA S, CAL 5, C/SAS S,

SECRET 2101037 7492

INTO MOVE ROME CITY NEXT 7498

1. DIR 70123

2. DIR 69575.02

KEYWAY FORUMEN

ALE AWAITING RECEIPT

3. FOLL REYED TO REF 8:

PART A:

1. DAY BEFORE HURRICANE CYNTHIA HIT CUBA, BETWEEN 900 AND 500 SOVIET TECKS LEFT BY SHIP FROM SANTIAGO DE CUBA. ON 10 NOV APPROX 200 SOVS WERE SEEN WALKING STREETS MACADA WITH SUITCASES PRIOR DEBARCATION. (SOURCE REMIGIO HERRERO DOI: 9 DEC).

2. ALL SOUS APPEAR TO BE TECHS, ALTINO YOUNG. MOST OBSERVED DESIGNET HAD NO MILITARY BEARING, IN SLOPPY PHYSICAL SHAPE. ON BASIS OF HIS ASSUMPTION THEY CIVILIANS. FRIEND ERIC BORSIONEUR LIVES ON ROAD TO PINAR DEL RIO, TOLD SIX MONTHS

THE SOVS, DID NOT PERMIT ANYONE TO VISIT THEIR CAMP NEAR EL. TUT FOR THE LAST THREE MONTHS CUBAN OFFICIALS ENTER IN LARGE NUMBERS AND THE TOTAL NUMBER OF SOVS HAD BEEN REDUCED BY TWO

(SIC). SOV CAMP IN SOROA CLOSED DOWN ABOUT SIX MONTHS

SOURCE NENITA ROCA.

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIGINAL CONTINGENT OF SOVS

WHIVING WITH FAMILIES. (SOURCE: ANGEL L. ROJO LISHU).

NEVER SEEN IN UNIFORM. ALL WEAR SPORT SHIRTS OF VARIOUS

APPARENTLY CUBAN MADE. NO SIMILAR BAGS, OF COURSE, SINCE

SYMBOLIC OF PLAYBOYS. IN A CAFETERIA[??] SAW NEXT TO TABLE

CHINESE. ONE IN PALE BLUE TUNIC AND OTHER THREE IN
SUITS.[??] SAW AND HEARD NO MENTION OF NO OTHER ASIATICS,

LITE TYPES.

[??] SAW ON 13 DEC TEN TANKS. DESCRIBED AS SOVIET TYPE ON
FROM MATANZAS TO VERASERO. EACH SIDE THEY HAD 5 LARGE
AND OTHERS SMALLER WHEEL RAISED OFF GROUND. DOUBLE TURRETS,
LARGE CANNON. ON 15 DEC MIX. THEN GOING SAME DIRECTION.
HE SAW 4 LARGE TRUCKS DRIVES BY SOVS AND CARRYING FIVE
MEN. LATER SAME DAY SAW TEN MORE. ALL GOING FROM RANCHO
AREA TOWARDS THE INTERIOR. IN ALL SAW APPROX 250 DURING
VISIT. ALL SOVS IN 22-28 AGE GROUP.

4. SEE TWO, ABOVE.

5. FLOW OF SOVS IS CONSISTENT WITH NEEDS CASTRO GOVT. MANY
   MANY MORE WILL COME AS NEED ARISES. TYPICAL ATTITUDE OF MAN
   SECRET IS "SOVS HERE TO STAY".

6. NO INFO SOVS IN CUBAN MILITIA UNIFORMS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET PAGE 3

LIFE: NO GOC OFFICIAL OPPOSES FOR FEAR OF OWN LIFE. IN ANY EVENT, OPPOSITION WOULD HAVE NO VALUE OR REATING. COMMON GUOTE: "FIDEL HACE Y FIDEL DESHACE".

3. SEE ONE, ABOVE.

4. NOT KNOWN, BUT CUBAN POSITION IN DISPUTE VERY INDEPENDANT, UNAFFECTED.

PART C

1. HOST OF THE FILITIA PERSONNEL HAVE BEEN CONVERTED TO ARMY REGULARS PAST SIX MONTHS.

2. UNKNOWN

3. IMPRESSION IS THAT CUBAN ARMY NOW WELL TRAINED AND ORGANIZED.

4. ON TEN DEC. NEAR SORDA, ALL CAR'S HALTED ON ROAD WHILE CONTINGENT CUBAN TROOPS SURROUNDED A CANE FIELD AND SPRAYED IT WITH GUNFIRE, SEARCHED IT, BUT FOUND NO ONE. TROOPS WELL FED AND SUPPLIED. (SOURCE: RENITA ROCA 9 DEC). SORCA APPROX 80 KMS FROM PARINA TOWARDS PICAR DEL RIO.

SECRET

C/O COMMENT: WAS HIGHLY INTERESTED CICES RETURN CUBA AS OBSERVER SINGLETON.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)