# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Manuscript by David Phillips

FROM:
John M. Reeves, Jr
C/EAB

EXTENSION NO.
7770

DATE
24 May 76

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

1. DDO/SS/Sec
   3D00(H. Keough)

2. ** see comments

3. John M. Reeves Jr.
   C/EAB

4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
DATE OFFICER'S INITIALS
RECEIVED FORWARDED
9/2/2007

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across colume after each comment.)
Attached are Chapters 3, 5, 7, 8, 10 and the Epilogue to David Phillips' book "The Night Watch." Previous chapter numbers are changed as follows: 5 (Bay of Pigs) is now 4; 8 (Dominican Crisis) is now 6; and 11 (Washington 1973-74) is now 9.

Please review these chapters for material that: (1) is classified, (2) was learned while the author was a CIA employee, and (3) has not been placed in the public domain by the Agency.

Concurrent review is being conducted by LA Div., CI Staff, CCS, DDO/SS/SOG, OGC DDO/SU, O/Commo (Chapter 10) and SE Div (Chapter 8).

The author must meet a publishing deadline within the next few weeks. In orde to negotiate deletions before the deadline, your review and comments should be returned no later than 11 June 1976.

Only comment by C/SCG re Chapter 7, p 44 re Camp Peary being CIA installation 99 To our understanding, this base has never been officially acknowledged as a CIA installation. C/SOG also suggest NE Div and CAG may wish review. This package given to C/CAG and returned with no comments.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)