# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

29 September 1960
File No. K-749

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Chief, NE

ATTENTION : Mr. Gardner

SUBJECT : Calvin W. HICKS
Establishment of Official Cover Backstop

REFERENCE : Form 1322, dated 21 September 1960

1. In compliance with above reference, official cover backstopping which utilizes the (U. S. Army Staff Group) 32

has been established for the above-named individual. All information concerning this cover arrangement is available in the Official Cover and Liaison Section, CCD.

2. It is requested that OCL/CCD be notified when this cover arrangement is no longer required. Any changes in the Subject's Headquarters status should be coordinated with this office for the determination of need for continued documentation and cover.

3. Subject has been issued Unit ID Card No. 363 for domestic use only. In accordance with arrangements made with Offices of Security and Personnel, the above documentation will be picked up by a CPB representative for any individual making a PCS move from Headquarters or an overseas TDY trip. In the case of the PCS traveler, CPB will return this documentation to OCL/CCD for disposition. For the TDY traveler, this documentation will be retained by CPB and returned to the TDY traveler upon completion of the trip. In the event of a resignation from the Agency, OCL/CCD will obtain the documentation from the employee at the time of the employee's debriefing conference.

/S/ PAUL P. STEWART

JOSEPH M. ADAMS
Chief, Official Cover & Liaison, CCD Branch, CCG

cc: Personnel Security Division,
Office of Security

FORM
1554

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)