# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

*AMLASH-1*

1 July 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Test of Open Sight Hood for 7.62m Belgium (FAL) Rifle

REFERENCE: A) Memo for Rcd. dated 25 May 1964, Subject: PAL-
Silencers/8ights, from C/TE/SA/MOB/PN

B) Memo for Rcd. dated 10 June 1964, Subject: Tests
of Modified Bights for 7.62 Belgium (FAL) Rifle

1. On 15 and 16 June 1984, the undersigned and Mr. Bob
   Ricker, TSD/SDB went to Isolation to test an open sight hood for
   the 7.62mm Belgium (FAL) Rifle developed in answer to Ref. A.
   The Modified Williams peep sight developed previously in answer
   to Ref. A and reported on in Ref. B. proved unsatisfactory to the
   requester. The snap-on sight hood was then developed on a quick
   reaction basis to be simpler to install and easier to use than
   the Williams sight. In addition some improved underloaded 7.62m
   NATO rounds having soft. annealed cases and cream of wheat filler
   vere tested for performance. These were developed in hopes of
   correcting the erratio azmunition performance, noted ja Ne

2. The open sight hood snaps over the existing rear sight
   of the FAL rifle, and in theory makes shooting in poor light or
   at night easier. It can be used with either standard factory
   loads or the underloaded ammunition in conjunction with the muzzle
   attachment silencer. The notch on the rear sight hood is "U" shaped
   and raised to compensate for the more curving trajectory of the low
   velocity ammunition. The hood is easily detached making the con-
   ventional peep sight available any time it is desired.

3. The attached data sheet summarizes the test results. It
   vas found that some familiarization vas necessary to get used to
   the open sight. Under ideal conditions the sight was as easy to
   use as the peep sight although it was more difficult to maintain
   uniform vertical grouping. The relationship between the eye and
   rear sight was found to be very critical. As the tests proceeded
   a change was noted in the point of impact vs. point of aim which was
   thought to be due to a change in sight picture on the part of the
   undersigned.

4. The improved ammunition was found to be quite consistant
   in performance. The use of cream of wheat filler to tamp the powder
   charge against the primer vas an attempt to get more even ignition
   with correspondingly improved accuracy. The expended cartridge
   cases vere checked periodically and no evidence vas found of the
   soft annealed cases not expanding properly. During the teste the
   rifle and ammunition combination instilled a degree of confidence
   in the undersigned not present in the previous teste.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

5. Tests were conducted in the evening to determine the degree
   of usefulness of the sight in poor light. In this respect a 22
   Caliber Hi-Standard pistol with folding shoulder stock and Bushnell
   1.3X Phantom scope was tested in comparison. The scope was
   equipped with yellow filters to brighten the sight picture for
   low light level use. It was the opinion of both test personnel
   that the scope was superior to either the peep sight or open sight
   for as long as their was some illumination on the silhouette
   targets. Once the light failed the scope was completely useless
   although the undersigned could still discern targets with the naked
   eye out to 50 yds. All actual shooting was done with the open
   sight and some difficulty was experienced in hitting the targets
   at ranges of 100 yds. or more even at dusk. The closer targets
   could be easily hit up until it became too dark to see them at all.
   A large rain cloud moving from behind the firing position gradually
   obscured all available light. For the final shooting at 25 yds.
   occasional lightning flashes gave only a vague awareness of the
   target location. At no time during the night trials was there any
   muzzle flash visible from the under loaded ammunition and suzzle
   silencer combination. The gas port which was in the off position
   during the daylight trials vas turned on at night but no flash was
   visible at the breech. A fine white cloud of cream of wheat
   powder was visible in front of the muzzle at almost full darkness
   but could not be seen more than 30 feet away.

6. Listener trials were conducted the following day to deter-
   mine how far away an alert listener could discern the mechanical
   noise of the mechanism and that of the round being fired. Hr. Ricker
   walked away downwind at an angle of 90 degrees to the line of fire
   and stopped to listen every 25 paces. The undersigned fired
   single rounds, (hand actuating the pechanism) each time Nr. Ricker
   stopped. At 335 paces, or roughly 275 yds., Er. Ricker reported.
   he could still hear the mechanisa being actuated, the round being
   fired, and the bullet striking a concrete pillar 200 yds, down-
   range. However, he stared that he might not have noticed the sound
   at that range had he not been listening for it specifically.

7. One of the major causes for concern at the start of the
   tests was that the cream of wheat filler might clog the silencer
   and render it ineffective. A total of 200 rounds were fired with
   the silencer in place and the noise level did seem to be higher at
   the finish of the second day. (Round numbers 180 to 200 were the
   ones expended during the previously mentioned listener trials).
   Inspection of the silencer at a later date revealed considerable
   crean of wheat residue in the screening. Sound level measurements
   made in the AMF sound lab showed that while the total noise level
   vas no higher, the duration was relatively longer. This would
   make the silencer seen louder to near by observers but not increase
   the range at which it could be heard. However, from a stand-
   point of the ability for a listener to discriminate a silencer
   being fired from random noise, the longer duration gives him a
   better chance to recognize what he hears.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

8. On 19 June 1964, the undersigned went to the warehouse at Franconia to try to fit the sight hood to other 7.65mm FAL rifles. It was suspected that the fit might be a problem when it would not fit over the rear sights of three FAL rifles at Isolation. Although it was later determined that the three rifles were of a different lot and may therefore have different tolerances on the rear sight casting, it was felt that further checking was necessary. Nine FAL rifles from the same lot as those obtained by WH/SA/MOB/PM were unpackaged and the sight hood tried on the rear sight. Of the nine, two were perfect fits and the other seven too thick for the hood to fit. This created a problem in that the sight hoods had to fit rifles which for operational reasons could not be measured before hand to determine the thickness of the rear sight blade. Providing adjustment in the slot of the sight hood would have complicated the fixture to the point where it could become operationally unsuitable. Therefore it was determined that the best solution was to provide several small files with the hoods. The peep sight on the rifles, a soft casting, was found to be quite easy to file. In most cases it would be necessary only to file several thousandths to obtain a proper fit. This procedure was explained to C/WH/SA/MOB/FM and he stated that it would be acceptable.

9. On 24 June 1964, three open sight hoods with accessories consisting of two files and a small screwdriver were turned over to C/WH/SA/MOB/PM. In addition, 400 rounds of improved under- loaded ammunition with cream of wheat filler were provided as a replacement for the original 400 underloaded rounds.

10. On 29 June 1964, it was discovered that a scope was availabl for the 7.62mm Belgium (FAL) Rifle (Sniper Version) and in the Agency supply system. Steps are being taken to obtain a scope for evaluation. The results will be forwarded to C/WH/SA/MOB.

DDP/TSD/EB/DJH/EC

cc: C/TSD
C/TH/SA/MOB/PM

DANIEL J. BOGAN
TSD/EB

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# STANDARD VELOCITY AMMUNITION, DAYLIGHT:

| RANGE    | RAMP SETTING | SIGHT TYPE | POINT OF IMPACT (RELATIVE TO POINT OF AIN) | EXTREME SPREAD | NO. OF ROUNDS |
| -------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------------------------------------ | -------------- | ------------- |
| 100 yds. | No. 2        | Peep       | On                                         | 6 "            | 5             |
| 100 yds. | No. 3        | Peap       | On                                         | 5 "            | 5             |
| 100 yds. | No. 2        | Open Hoodi | 24" high                                   | 4 "            | 5             |
| 100 yds. | No. 8        | Open Hood  | 26" high                                   | 4 "            | 5             |

# ERLOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN SIGHT HOOD, DAYLIGHT:

| RANGE     | RAMP SETTING   | POINT OF IMPACT (RELATIVE TO POINT OF AIN) | KXTREME SPREAD | HORIZONTAL SPREAD | VERTICAL SPREAD | NO. OF ROUNDS       |
| --------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------ | -------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ------------------- |
| 25 yds.   | No. 2          | 3" high                                    | 1 3/4"         | --                | --              | 5                   |
| 25 yds.   | No. 6          | 3" low                                     | 3/4"           | --                | --              | 5                   |
| 50 yds.   | No. 6          | On                                         | 5"             | --                | --              | 5                   |
| 75 yds.   | No. 6          | 4" left 4" low                             | --             | 2"                | 3"              | 5                   |
| 100 yds.  | Full Elevation | 6" loft, 8" low                            | 9"             | --                | 5               |                     |
| 100 yds.  | Full Elevation | On (Diff. Shooter)                         | --             | 5"                | 13"             | 10                  |
| 100 yads. | Full Elevation | 8" left, 8" low                            | 5"             | 6"                | 9"              | 5                   |
| 125 yds.  | No 2           | 8" loft, 18" low                           | 6"             | --                | 11              | 5                   |
| 125 yds.  | Full Elevation | On (Changed sight. Picture)                | --             | 6                 | 20"             | 8 (2 missed target) |
| 150 yds.  | Jull Elevation | On (Changed Sight Picture)                 | --             | 6"                | 18"             | 8 (2 missed target) |
| J yds.    | Pull Elevation | 6" low (Changed Sight Picture)             | --             | 8"                | 36"             | 10                  |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

UNDERIOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN SIGHT HOOD, DUSH:

| RANGE    | NO. OF ROUNDS | NO. OF HITS | HORIZONTAL SPREAD | VERTICAL SPREAD | REMARKS                                                                    |
| -------- | ------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 200 yds. | 10            | 6           | 15"               | 25"             | Could see target more clearly through Peep sight but no rounds were fired. |
| " yds.   | 10            | 6           | 6"                | 6"              | Could soo target very clearly with 1.3X scope.                             |

UNDER'OADED AMMUNITION, ALMOST FULL DARK, OPEN SIGHT HOOD:

| RANGE    | NO. OF ROUNDIS | NO. OF HITS | HORIZONTAL SPREAD | VERTICAL SPREAD | REMARKS                                                                                                           |
| -------- | -------------- | ----------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 75 yds.  | 10             | 9           | 9"                | 9"              | Poop sight useless                                                                                                |
| 25; yds. | 10             | 10          | 14"               | 25"             | Could see targets out to 200 yds, with filtered scope at start of firing, could not se at; all w/scope at finishi |

POERIOADED AMMUNITION, OPEN BIGHT HOOD, FULL DARK:

| RANGE   | NO. OF ROUNDIS | NO. OF HITS   | REMARKS                                                                                                                  |
| ------- | -------------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 25 yds. | 10             | 5 (scattered) | Target in total darkness, rain cloud overhead, intermittent lightning flashes gave a vague awareness of target location. |


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)