# PRIORITY

104-10109-10320 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

22 APR 71

S 149

TO HDQS

FROM SAC EFS

SUOJ SUPPORT TO REST JEAL - LINDER KEY
(LIAR'S LE $219 000 F30/

ATTENTION:

1.  ABOUT 050 ARS OR 22 APR 71, MR. WILLIAE LOSNER, SENIOR VP

LANK OF PERKIVE AND A CLEARED ANDITTING CONTACT OF THIC ICSCY FOR
FANY YRS, APTO A LOS DISTANCE PRORE CALL FROL. LES WHITE KER, ASSOCIATE
OF JACK ANDERS. THITAKER INQUIRED AS TO LOSEER'S ASSOCIATΙΟΝ ΕΙΤΗ
THIS AGENCY DET ALLEGED ACTIVITIES OF AGENCY AT LIAR'S LAIR
O LINDERMAN KEY, LICATED ABOUT EICHT CILES SE OF HONESTED AFT
ACROSS DISCAYNEY.

2.  LOSE DELLED KNOLLEDGE OF AND ASSOCIATION WITH THIS AGENCY.

ARPTD HE IS OFFICER IS COMP CRICH LEASED LIAN'S LAIR FRON UL. IV OF
BISHI SEVERAL YES ADO. (THIS IS TRUTH AND PEITHER SITE FOR COAP
HAS PRESENT ASSOCIATION ITH THE GECD. HE ALSO APTD THAT ONLY
ACTIVITY THERES CORP FORK FORCE REBUILDING AN OLD PIS. DURG LIST
WEEKEND.

3.  LOSER SPECULATES TIST SITEKEN MY HAVE OCT 113 1709.

FRON STATE CORP. ALSO, SOKONG WITH PAST KOLEOL OF AGENCY

(CONTINUED)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

PAGE TWO OF NC 149 #219 000

ACTIVITIES AT LIAR'S LAIR MAY HAVE OBSERVED THE WORK FORCE OVER THE PAST WEEKEND AND FALSELY ASSOCIATED ACTIVITY WITH THIS AGENCY. MFO FEELS ANDERSON AWARE OF AGENCY'S PAST INTEREST IN KEY THROUGH DISCLOSURES OF CAPT BRAD AYRES.

4. THIS INFO PASSED TO VENOM. SUGGEST HDQS PASS TO EH.

PRIORITY

END MAL THANKS

END JES YM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)