# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

20 October 1959

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Highlights of Tape-Recorded Conversation in Mood Between Mr. William D. Fowley and an Unidentified Cuban during Period 17-18 October

1. On 20 October the undersigned and Owen Faust of WH/3 listened to the play-book of a tape, brought to Washington from Miami and given to Colonel King by Mr. Pauley on 19 October, which was a recording of Mr. Fowley's conversations with two Cubans during the period 17-18 October. The first conversation was with an unidentified Cuban, believed to be a member of a group of wealthy anti-CASTRO Cubans, members of which have talked to Mr. Pauley recently about their plans for sabotage of the coming sugar harvest as reported in UMWA-32 dated 2 October. The second Cuban was AMPACA-1, a Cuban journalist of operational interest to Station Habana, and a separate memorandum is submitted on that conversation.

2. The unidentified Cuban, who had somewhat of an accent and spoke indistinctly, was difficult to understand. He mentioned a meeting "with some of our people who came up from Cuba" to discuss plans. He said his group had been contacted by a representative of General Jose Eleuterio PEDRAZA, leader of Cuban revolutionary groups in the Dominican Republic, who wanted to know what action their group had taken and was told that they had a plan to start sabotage". The Cuban said the PEDRAZA representative said their group (the PEDRAZA group) had four provinces organised in Cuba, mentioning Camaguey and Santa Clara, and that they had two provinces yet to be organized - Habana and Matansas.

3. The Cuban said his group needed two things -- moral backing and money; he pointed out that Cubans in Cuba are afraid to start an underground movement, and there was no way to raise funds, etc. Mr. Pawley gave him no encouragement on the money angle, saying that even if there were Americans willing to run the risk of becoming involved in Cuban revolutionary activities by furnishing money for such a movement, which he doubted, he felt that at the present time it would be like "putting money down a rat-hole" for the following reasons: (1) there is no unity among the anti-CASTRO groups, and there are at least 10 that he knows of who are working absolutely independently of one another; and (2) CASTRO is in control of the country and has the support of a large number of Cubans, especially the under-privileged. Mr. Pauley said he felt the Cuban economic situation was worsening fast and that if it gets bad enough, a large number of Cubans will turn on CASTRO; but until that time comes it would be dangerous to try to organise a revolutionary movement.

SECRET

201-7738


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

-2-

4. Mr. Pawley asked the Cuben if his group felt they had moral support of the U. S. and the Cuben replied that they wanted U. S. moral support but whether they had it or not, they felt they were obliged to carry through with their plans. Mr. Pawley said he didn't know what to tell him -- would have to think about it and see if anything could be done. He said, "having been connected with the U. S. Government, I can't get involved in revolutionary movements". Also said he would hate to see the Dominican Government get involved, which might be difficult to avoid with so many Cuban exiles there, but commented that he understood "the Dominican Government hasn't given them a dime".

Martha Tharpe
WR/III/CARIB

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)