104-10012-10076 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional)

FROM
RD/F/FR
EXTENSION
2826
DATE
July 1967

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED
OFFICER'S COMMENTS: Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment. INITIALS

Document Number: 127-987
for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

FORM 610
USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED

![201-2897248]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

TO: Chiefs, Certain Stations and Bases

INFO:

FROM: Chief, WOLIME

SUBJECT: Warren Commission Report: Article on the Investigation Conducted by District Attorney Garrison

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES:

1.  We are forwarding herewith a reprint of the article "A Reporter At Large: Garrison", published in THE NEW YORKER, 13 July, 1968. It was written by Edward Jay Epstein, himself author of a book, ("Inquest"), critical of the Warren Commission Report.

2.  The wide-spread campaign of adverse criticism of the U.S., most recently again provoked by the assassination of Senator Robert Kennedy, appears to have revived foreign interest in the assassination of his brother, the late President Kennedy, too. The forthcoming trial of Sirhan, accused of the murder of Senator Kennedy, can be expected to cause a new wave of criticism and suspicion against the United States, claiming once more the existence of a sinister "political murder conspiracy". We are sending you the attached article--based either on first-hand observation by the author or on other, identified sources--since it deals with the continuing investigation, conducted by District Attorney Garrison of New Orleans, La. That investigation tends to keep alive speculations about the death of President Kennedy, an alleged "conspiracy", and about the possible involvement of Federal agencies, notably the FBI and CIA.

3.  The article is not meant for reprinting in any media. It is forwarded primarily for your information and for the information of all Station personnel concerned. If the Garrison investigation should be cited in your area in the context of renewed anti-U.S. attacks, you may use the article to brief interested contacts, especially government and other political leaders, and to demonstrate to assets (which you may assign to counter such attacks) that there is no hard evidence of any such conspiracy. In this context, assets may have to explain to their audiences certain basic facts about the U.S. judicial system, its separation of state and federal courts and the fact that judges and district attorneys in the states are usually elected, not appointed: consequently, D.A. Garrison can continue in office as long as his constituents re-elect him. Even if your assets have to discuss this in order to refute--or at least weaken--anti-U.S. propaganda of sufficiently serious impact, any personal attacks upon Garrison (or any other public personality in the U.S.) must be strictly avoided.

Document Number: 1127-987

for FOIA Review on SEP 1976

Attachment: 1 unclassified article, per para 1

![signature of BRIAN K. SLAGHT]

DATE: 19 July 1968

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

`latt /w`

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: BD - 6614

HOS FILE NUMBER: 201-289248

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

JUL 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# FIELD DISTRIBUTION

## A Division

Abidjan
Accra
Addis Ababa
Anvers
Bangui
Cotonou
Dakar
Dar es Salaam
Douala
Freetown
Khartoum
Kinshasa
Kisumu
Lagos
Lusaka
Mogadiscio
Monrovia
Nairobi
Rabat
Tripoli
Yaounde

## WH Division

Asuncion
Bogota
Brasilia
Buenos Aires
Caracas 2
Georgetown
Guatemala
Guayaquil
Kingston
La Paz
Lima
Mexico City 2
Montevideo
Panama
Porto Alegre
Port Au Spain
Quito
Recife
Rio de Janeiro 2
San Jose
San Salvador
Santiago 2
Santo Domingo
Sao Paulo
Tegucigalpa
Madrid 2

## NE Division

Amman
Ankara 2
Athens 5
Beirut
Bombay
Calcutta
Colombo
Dacca
Istanbul
Jerusalem
Jidda
Kabul
Karachi
Katmandu
Kuwait
Lahore
Madras
New Delhi
Nicosia
Rawalpindi
Teheran

## SB/Division

C/SB
SB/CA
SB//ER 3
SB/C 2
SB/YA
SB/P
SB/CI
WH/C/CA/PROP 2
WH/CA
WH/1,2,3,4,5
WH/7/JTS, GU
1-D/RR
2-DOCA
CI/F&A
CI/ICG
FBID/Weiss
VTR/SIC
TR/Isolation Library
FL/8PG
MPS/PSG

## EUR Division

Berlin 3
Bern
Bonn 5
Brussels
Copenhagen
Frankfurt
Geneva
Helsinki
LCFIFIE 4
London 2
Madrid 2
Munich (Laurion) 3
Oslo
Paris
Rome
Stockholm
The Hague 2
Vienna
Zurich

## FF Division

Bangkok 3
Jakarta
Hong Kong 2
Honolulu
Kuala Lumpur
Manila 1
Melbourne 2
Okinawa
Papeete
Saigon 2
Seoul 2
Singapore 3
Surabaya
Taipei 2
Tokyo 2
Vientiane
Wellington

## INTERNAL DISTRIBUTION

AP/COF/CA
AP/1
AF/2 2
AP/3
AP/L
AF/5
AF/6-Ethiopia
C/EUR
E/OFF/CA
E/G
K/AS
E/SC
E/BND
E/BC
E/F
E/I
E/LB
FE/CA 16
NE/SA/A
NE/GT!
NE/GT/G
NE/GT-T
NE 'COPS
NEGA/I

## CS Special Group Offic

C/CA = DC/CA
C/CA/PEG
CA/EL 3
08/53 3
CA/DA
CA/CP
CA/FRO


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)