# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

COUNTRY Cuba

REPORT NO. CS-311/00466-65

SUBJECT Policy Guidance Directives for Cuban Intelligence Representatives in the Dominican Republic

DATE DISTR. 11 January 1965

NO. PAGES 8

REFERENCES CS-311/00115-64
CS-311/00RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DATE OF 1963
INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. June 1964

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE: A former Cuban intelligence officer who served with the Cuban Intelligence Service until April 1964.

Headquarters Comment. The following is a translation of a document which Source provided containing the policy guidance directive for Cuban intelligence representatives in the Dominican Republic, prepared by the General Directorate of Intelligence (Direccion General de Inteligencia--DGI), MA Department. The MA Department no longer exists as such, having been divided into two departments: Illegal Department (Ilegal) and National Liberation Department (Liberacion Nacional -- LN). It may he noted that this directive was prepared during the régime of Juan Bosch Gaviño.

DIRECTIVES OF THE M-A SECTION
COUNTRY: SANTO DOMINGO (sic)

Priority

1. Collective action.
2. Status of leftist forces.
3. Dominican Republic Armed Forces.
4. Dominican Communist Party (Partido Socialista Popular Dominicano).
5. Training camps and operations bases.
6. Counterrevolutionary organizations.
7. Repressive corps and CIA Santo Domingo.
8. Status of political, parties or groups.
9. Solidarity with Cuba movement.
10. Relations with United States.
11. Church.
12. Armed forces internal situation.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

STATE DIA ARMY NAVY AIR NSA XM OCR FBI
REPCINCLANT I&NS

(Note: Field distribution Indicated by "#".)

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

For Distribution See Attached Page

LX-2158
NP (AMMUG-1)
CS-311/00466-65

CI/I.S 12 (for AF OSI, ACSI, ONE, SY, FBI DIA - 2 each)
TOTALS IE 3,CI 21, RID/AN 1, WIH/SA 16(5), SR 4, FI
WH 23(33), AF 8(8), EE 8(10). FE 12(8), NE 7(19)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 1a -

CS-311/00466-65

Hdqrs Dissem

WH/COPS 1 WE/1 1 EE/GNVA 1
WH/PO/A 1 WE/2 1 EE/ZURI 1
WH/PO/B 1 WE/3 1 EE/HAMB 1
WH/1 1 WE/4 1 EE/KAVA 1
WH/2 13 WE/5 1
WH/3 1 WE/BC 1 FE/DJAK 1
WH/3/V 1 WE/R 1 FE/NEDN 1
WH/4 1 FE/SURA 1
WH/5 1 Field Dissem FE/TOKY 1
WH/6 1 FE/OKIE 1
WH/R 1 WH/MEXI 1 FE/SEOU 1
WH/MNTY 1 FE/SAIG 1
WH/MRID 1 FE/KOBE 1
WH/SA/EOB 5 WH/SDOM 1
WH/SA/MOB 5 WH/PIBO 1 NE/COLO 1
WH/SA/R 4 WH/POSN 1 NE/NEWD 1
WH/SA/Int 1 WH/KNGS 1 NE/BOMB 1
WH/SA/CI 30 WH/PRIN 1 NE/CALC 1
WH/SA/SO/NS 1 WH/GORG 1 NE/MDRS 1
WH/MANA 1 NE/KUWA 1
WH/SJOS 1 NE/KAHI 1
CI/Staff 5 WH/SALV 1 NE/DACC 1
CI/Liaison 1 WH/TEGU 1 NE/LAHO 1
CI/R&A 3 WH/GUAT 1 NE/RAWL 1
RID/AN 1 WH/LAPA 1 NE/BAGH 1
WH/BOGO 1 NE/BEIR 1
AF/1 1 WH/QUIT 1 NE/DAMA 1
AF/2 1 WH/GAYA 1 NE/ALEP 1
AF/3 1 WH/LIMA 1 NE/JIDD 1
AF/4 1 WH/CARA 1 NE/DAHA 1
AF/R 3 WH/BUEN 1 NE/TAIZ 1
AF/CI 1 WH/COBA 1 NE/CAIR 1
WH/MONT 1 NE/ALEX 1
EE/K 1 WH/ASUN 1
EE/SA 1 WH/SAGO 1 WE/BRUS 1
EE/BR 1 WH/RIOD 1 WE/COPE 1
EE/YA 1 WH/CURI 1 WE/HELS 1
EE/H 1 WH/BRIL 1 WE/OTTA 1
EE/P 1 WH/SAOP 1 WE/ROME 1
EE/C 1 WH/BHIA 1 WE/MILA 1
EE/IIS 1 WH/BEHO 1 WE/HAGU 1
WH/LGRE 1 WE/OSLO 1
FE/PMI/I 1 WH/RECI 1 WE/LISB 1
FE/JKO/JO 1 WE/MADR 1
FE/JKO/K 1 WH/SA/WAVE 5 WE/BARC 1
FE/VNC/VN 1 WE/STOC 1
FE/R 4 AF/ALGI 1 WE/LOND 1
FE/CI 4 AF/ORNA 1 WE/PARI 1
NE/AA/L&S 1 AF/RABA 1
NE/AA/AP 1 AF/CASB 1 Liaison Dissem
NE/AA/E 1 AF/ACCR 1
NE/AA/I 1 AF/CNRY 1 IE/Canada 1
NE/5/P 1 AF/BAKO 1 (RCMP) 1
NE/6/C&I 1 AF/DARE 1 IE/British 1
NE/Intel 1 L/WASH/BR 1
EE/VIEN 1
EE/SBUR 1
SR/CI 1 EE/CYRU 1
SR/CI/K 1 EE/ATHE 1
SR/RR 1 EE/SLON 1
SR/O/WH 1 EE/BERN 1

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

![nibr]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 2 -

CS-311/00466-65

Important

13. Functions, characteristics, and personal data on members of the foreign service, and of the accredited diplomatic corps.

14. The press.

Necessary

15. Status of the national economy.

16. Structure of the government and functions of its organs.

INFORMATION GUIDELINES AND OBJECTIVES
COUNTRY: SANTO DOMINGO

Priority.

1. Collective Action.

a) Political and military agreements adopted by regional organs against Cuba in which the Bosch government participates. Meetings in which the government's participation in the adoption thereof may be agreed on. Dominican government proposals on the Cuban case, and collective aggression.

b) Participation of the government in troops in the aggression, units which would participate in the aggression, their chiefs and strength.

c) Joint military maneuvers which may be held in Dominican territory by Latin American armies. Participating armies and units thereof.

d) Military concentrations of Latin and Yankee armies, objectives thereof; presence therein of Cuban mercenaries, their conditions, U.S. Sol. (sic; soldiers?) such as mercenaries of the Plaza Giron type, etc.

e) Plans of provocations devised by the Dominican government in order to show Cuban Government intervention in the country's internal affairs.

f) Measures on travel to or from Cuba.

g) Possibilities for break in relations by countries that may have relations with Cuba.

2. Status of Leftist Forces

a) Progressive forces: organization, leaders, strength, position, and argumentation in the revolutionary struggle.

b) Possibility for armed struggle.

c) Contradictions and degree of unity among the leftist forces.

d) Publications--circulation.

e) Repression against leftist forces.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 3 -

CS-311/00466-65

f) Contact with leftist forces in order to know their viewpoints regularly, at all times, and when we may need it, especially on political and economic changes which may take place in Cuba.

g) Student, peasant, and labor movements. Organization, strength, leaders, relations with the leftist forces, degree of unity.

h) U.S. and Church penetration in the mass organizations (labor, peasant, student).

i) Possibilities of spontaneous manifestations of struggle.

j) Possibilities of guerrilla movement; groups, organizations, leaders, weapons, popular support, relations with the left-ist forces.

k) Struggle in the city: groups, leaders, form of work, role of the labor and student movement, relations with the left-ist forces, and with groups operating in the countryside.

l) Relations of exiles with the insurrectional movement.

3. Armed Forces of the Dominican Republic

a) Organization of the Dominican Armed Forces, units, and strength of the various corps. Bases, barracks, weapons, and transport of the Armed Forces. Locations、

b) Budgetary allocations of the Armed Forces; allocations to each branch (Navy, Air Force, and Army).

c) Existing bilateral agreements with the United States of a secret nature.

d) Secret or public military pacts entered into by Santo Domingo with countries in the Caribbean area, agreements by them con-cerning special arrangements.

e) Yankee military missions. Names, ranks, and functions of their members, their duties.

f) Armed Forces units with anti-guerrilla training, their strength, time spent in anti-guerrilla training, instructors giving it, weapons, and transportation in the possession of the units. Leaders of the units.

g) Other battalions or special units (parachutists, Rangers), units and strength, their leaders, transport, and weapons.

h) Changes in armament; quantity and characteristics of the new weapons acquired.

i) Participation by Dominican units in Central American or Caribbean military maneuvers, units participating, strength, their leaders.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 4 -

CS-311/00466-65.

4. The Dominican Communist Party (Dominican Popular Socialist Party, PSPD)

a) Attitude toward the Second Havana Declaration.

b) Attitude toward Cuban-Soviet relations.

c) Attitude toward Cuba's political activities of a national or international nature.

d) Position in regard to the disagreements in the international Communist movement.

e) In the case of China and the USSR.

f) In the case of Albania and the USSR.

g) As regards Yugoslavia, China, the USSR, and Albania.

h) As regards Peace.

i) Regarding peaceful coexistence.

j) Internal status of the Party,

k) Forces.

l) Leaders (information concerning them).

m) Disagreements.

n) Relations with other leftist forces, disagreements, possibilities for unification.

ñ) Methods of fighting officially adopted by the Party.

o) Attitude of the Party toward the elections.

p) Relations with the bourgeois parties and the government.

q) Work for solidarity with Cuba.

r) Publicity media.

s) The establishment of permanent and temporary contact with the PSPD.

t) Relations of the PSPD with other Latin-American Marxist parties.

5. Training Camps and Operational Bases

a) Location of training camps for Cuban mercenaries, number of mercenaries in them. Type and duration of training, organizations participating in it. Plans and missions of the elements being trained. Leaders of the camps. Place where the Cuban mercenaries go, recruitment locations. Participation by national elements in the training of mercenaries of foreign nationality.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 5 -
  CS-311/00466-65

b) Presence of counterrevolutionary elements in the Dominican
armed forces; names, assignments, and functions.

c) Location of counterrevolutionary operational bases on
Dominican soil: type of bases. Water craft or aircraft
present on them. Counterrevolutionary organization which
appears at the head of them. Elements participating.. Type
of water craft and their characteristics. Their weapons,
objectives, and plans of attack; dates when they are to be
carried out.

6. Counterrevolutionary Organizations

a) Cuban counterrevolutionary organizations which are function-
ing in Santo Domingo; their leaders. Their contact with
government personnel, especially with people in the new
régime who are responsible for establishing such contact.

b) Contact by the Bosch government with the magazine *Bohemia*
in Exile of Miguel Angel Quevedo; financial support given
it by him, and through whom.

c) Contact with Carlos Prío and elements linked with the PRC;
assistance to them. Contact with the counterrevolutionary
organizations; contact with the political parties; clements
through which it is effected.

d) Methods of communication by the elements in Santo Domingo
with the counterrevolutionary centers in Miami; through
whom the communications are established, and what means are
used for this purpose.

e) Obtaining documents which prove that the Dominican govern-
ment gives economic assistance to the counterrovolutionary
elements.

f) Counterrevolutionaries who are now working in the Dominican
state apparatus or in Yankee aid institutions; disagreements
between them and the Dominican workers,

g) Connections between the counterrevolutionary organizations
and the Trujillo régime. Documents proving these connections.

7. Repressive Bodies and CIA, Santo Domingo

a) Repressive bodies which function in Santo Domingo. Their
functions. Activities carried on by them. Their leaders
and principal officers. Working methods. Plans and ob-
jectives.

b) Intelligence organizations functioning in Santo Domingo.
Leaders. Elements abroad. Their duties and functions.
Activities carried on. Plans and objectives of Dominican
Intelligence, principally against Cuba. Trujillist ele-
ments still functioning inside this body; duties and
functions.

c) Cooperation between the Dominican repressive bodies and
those of the Latin American countries, especially those
of Central America.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 6 -
  CS-311/00466-65

d) Meetings held with them, dates, and personnel participating in the meetings; locations. Points discussed, agreements arrived at against Cuba, and the Movement of National Libera-. tion. Plans and objectives of the national security forces with regard to the Movement of National Liberation, means and resources mobilized, agents infiltrated into the poli- tical movements, repressive methods prescribed.

e) Contacts with Interpol. Cooperation with it. Restrictive measures regarding trips to Cuba. Agents.

f) Foreign advisers of the repressive forces and intelligence bodies; names, ranks, and positions; their functions; cases in which they have participated,

g) Leading functionaries of the CIA in the country; its office. Plans and objectives it pursues in Santo Domingo.

h) Nationals who are working for the CIA; names, ranks, and positions. Their methods and plans. Purpose of their work.

8. Status of the Parties or Political Groups

a) Their present status in regard to composition, strength, penetration, factions, leaders, programs, etc.

b) Participation in the government.

c) Relations of the political parties with the Embassy, the monopolies, the Church, and the Armed Forces.

d) Organizations of a fascist type; relations with the govern- ment, the Yankee Embassy, the Church; leaders, members, structure, anti-Communist campaign, arguments, attacks upon Cuba.

e) Provenience of the funds of the political parties.

f) Attitude of the political parties toward the Cuban Revo- lution,

g) Toward the Second Havana Declaration.

h) In regard to Cuban-Soviet relations, in questions which affect Cuba and world peace.

i) Concerning rightist and extreme rightist groups.

j) Reactions to the economic and political changes taking place in Cuba.

9. Movement for Solidarity with Cuba

a) Possibility of active demonstrations in favor of Cuba: groups, leaders, strength, organization, participants, relations with the forces of the left and other progres- sive forces,

b) Repression directed at the movement for solidarity with Cuba,

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

S-Y-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 7 -

CS-311/00466-65

c) Propaganda campaigns fer and against. Periodicals; themes.

10. Relations with the United States

a) Alliance for Progress.

b) The American Embassy. Information on the activities of the Ambassador and the personnel of the Embassy. Relations with the reactionary organizations. Relations with the Church. Government functionaries in close contact with the Embassy.

11. The Church

a) Ecclesiastical hierarchy. Information concerning it.

b) Attitude and disagreements between the national clergy and foreign countries.

c) Participation by the Church in the internal politics of the country.

d) Secular organizations of the Church (such as young people, Catholic labor, Catholic knights).

e) Penetration of the Church into the educational system of the country on various levels.

12. Internal Status of the Armed Forces

a) Information on the military chiefs and the activities they carry on. Groups they observe. Trends and disagreements.

Important

13. Functioning; Characteristics and Information on Members of the Foreign Service of the Diplomatic Corps Accredited to the Country

a) United Nations, Organization of American States, the JID /Inter-American Defense Board/.

b) Latin American functionaries in this country. To work with the diplomatic circles accredited to the country.

14. The Press

a) Information on journalists and dissemination organs; Possibility of making use of them. Journalists in the country and abroad.

Required

15. Status of the National Economy

a) United States investments (new and old).

b) Participation by the national oligarchy in the economy. Industry, commerce, agriculture.

c) Utilization and location of Trujillo's property.

d) Trend of the level of unemployment.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

- 8 -

CS-311/00466-65

c) Relations of the country in regard to Central American economic integration.

f) Possibility of a new economic policy of the United States monopolies in the country.

g) Need for obtaining collaborators who will inform us periodically on economic questions.

16. Structure of the Government and Functioning of its Apparatus

a) Character of the government, program, international policy.

b) Relations between the Presidency and the ministries.

c) Functioning of the Congress. Most prominent figures. Relations with the Yankee Embassy. Representation of the bourgeois parties and the social classes.

d) The judiciary: personages occupying high positions; important laws. Repressive laws. Relations of the judiciary with the other authorities.

e) Information on personalities connected with Juan Bosch.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)