14-00000
104-10121-10140
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1.  Mr. David S. Morales is hereby recommended for the Intelligence
    Medal of Merit for his twenty-five years of dedicated service with the
    Central Intelligence Agency.

2.  Prior to his entrance on duty with the Central Intelligence
    Agency in March 1951, Mr. Morales served from April 1946 to March 1951
    in the United States Army.

3.  Mr. Morales spent more than twenty years in the field in several
    different installations in the areas of Europe, Latin America and East
    Asia. He held senior level positions engaged in FI, CI, CA and PM opera-
    tions. His record includes such items as participation in key roles in
    both of Latin America Division's two major PM/political action operations
    plus tours as Base Chief in Pakse Laos (supervised 45 employees); and,
    Regional Officer in Charge, Nha Trang, Vietnam (supervised 60 employees).
    These assignments were carried out in war zones requiring considerable
    personal courage.

4.  Mr. Morales was commended twice by Chiefs of Station while
    assigned to the Cuban operation; by the Director of Central Intelligence
    for service in the Dominican Republic during the crisis; by the King of
    Laos during his assignment in Laos and by the Government of Vietnam for
    his service in that country.

5.  Upon his return from Vietnam in 1971 Mr. Morales was assigned to
    FR Division, Washington Base, where he was targeted on Latin American
    military officers assigned to the Inter-American Defense Board and attending
    the Inter-American Defense College. This assignment was initiated by Latin
    America Division in an effort to get at the rich operational potential
    afforded by the presence in the Washington area of numerous Latin American
    officials. Mr. Morales, with his long years of experience in Latin America,
    and his native fluency in Spanish, proved ideal for this assignment. He
    developed numerous assets who were later pursued successfully and recruited
    in the field and he made several significant recruitments of his own.

6.  Following the FR assignment Mr. Morales returned to the Latin
    America Division where he completed his final year with CIA. He served TDY
    as Acting Chief of Station, Paraguay for some months. During this period
    "there was more activity and accomplishment flowing out of the Asuncion
    Station than had been seen in years". This is typical of Mr. Morales'
    resourcefulness, imagination and push to get the job done.. The remainder
    of his Agency time was spent on a TDY to Panama and in the Cuban Operations
    Group, where his contribution was also very large.

'CONFIDENTIAL

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduca

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 059115

9/PV


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

7. During his Agency career Mr. Morales was constantly engaged in an exceptionally wide variety of activity in hazardous areas (Guatamala, Cuba, the Dominican Republic, Laos and Vietnam). He recruited countless assets and sources directed against a wide range of targets. In addition, he managed large installations and sizeable groups. He always shouldered heavy responsibilities and consistently demonstrated that he had the capacity, determination and necessary judgment to take on such jobs.

8. After nearly thirty years of dedicated and productive service with the US Government, Mr. Morales retired on 31 July 1975. Throughout his long career he was a dedicated, skillful and professional clandestine operator and unfailing in the pursuit of Agency objectives. His performance was of the highest caliber and unquestionably contributed significantly to the Agency's mission.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CITATION

Mr. David S. Morales

is hereby awarded the

Intelligence Medal of Merit

for his accomplishments during his career with the Central Intelligence
Agency. Mr. Morales, during his entire Agency career, displayed
exceptional talent, considerable imagination and initiative, and intense
devotion to duty. With determination, resourcefulness and adaptability
he performed all assignments in an extremely competent manner. His many
achievements, often under hazardous conditions, reflect great credit on
him and the Central Intelligence Agency.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)