# 104-10227-10046 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET/NOFORN

PROCESSING

| PASS   |
| ------ |
| POSTED |

| ACTION                           |
| -------------------------------- |
| MARKED FOR INDEXING              |
| NO INDEXING REQUIRED             |
| ONLY QUALIFIED HEADQUARTERS DESK |
| CAN JUDGE INDEXING               |
| ABSTRACT                         |
| MICROFILM                        |

TO:

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, WAVE

SUBJECT: Operational/AZTEC/Rifle

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES State Department request

ACTION REQUIRED: None, FYI

1. An APOT subsource, Ricardo NUNEZ Garcia, reported on 12 December 1961 that he had that day, by chance, met Manuel F. ORTEGA, a former delegate of Dr. Aureliano Sanchez Arango, at the New Orleans Airport. 201-284303

2. NUNEZ stated that ORTEGA said that he was returning that day from a trip to Panama and Guatemala. In Panama he had talked to President CHIARI and had found him to be intimidated, but, to the contrary, when he had talked to President YDIGORAS in Guatemala he had found him extremely anxious to have CASTRO liquidated. YDIGORAS had asked ORTEGA about his visit to CHIARI, and then ORTEGA expressed his opinion, YDIGORAS said it was logical because CHIARI was extremely cowardly.

3. According to NUNEZ, ORTEGA further said that a short time ago he had been called by Mr. Bob Hurwitch, Chief of the Cuban Desk in the State Department, and that Hurwitch had told him not to fool around with Sanchez or Julio Garceran because the man who had the support of the U.S. was AM/LASH-1, and that as he, Hurwitch, had knowledge of the great work done by ORTEGA, he did not want him to continue losing more time.

4. NUNEZ added that ORTEGA added that a few days later he received a phone call from AM/LASH-1. ORTEGA told NUNEZ that he will help AM/LASH-1, because it was requested, but he would never have done so by his own wish.

5. NUNEZ said that ORTEGA continued his travel on to Washington, where he resides at 1119 - 27th Street, N.W., Washington 7.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
3-Headquarters

CS FILE COPY 19-124-25

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

DATE TYPED: 3 Dec 1961

DATE DISPATCHED:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER:

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)