# Assassination Records Review Board

600 E Street NW · 2nd Floor · Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 · Fax: (202) 724-0457

January 28, 1997

Mr. John Pereira
Director
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, DC 20505

Re: Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-16
(Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)

Dear John:

Under the President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992, 44
U.S.C. § 2107 (Supp. V 1994), the Review Board has the authority to "direct a
Government office to . . . investigate the facts surrounding, additional information [and]
records. . . ." Section 7(J)(1)(C)(ii). Pursuant to this authority, the Review Board is
seeking to resolve in a complete and comprehensive manner certain questions related to
files on Lee Harvey Oswald that CIA may have held prior to the assassination of
President Kennedy. Accordingly, we request that CIA provide complete and
comprehensive answers to the questions identified below.

On May 12, 1992, Director Robert M. Gates testified to the Senate Committee on
Governmental Affairs regarding CIA's records on Oswald prior to the assassination.
Mr. Gates testified that "[p]rior to President Kennedy's assassination, CIA held only a
small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 34 documents amounting to 124
pages. . . ." (The Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1972: Hearing Before the
Committee on Governmental Affairs, 100th Cong., 2d Sess. 52 (1992) (emphasis added)
(copy enclosed). It is the Review Board's current understanding, however, that at the
time of the assassination, CIA held at least three separate files (including soft files) on
Lee Harvey Oswald: a 201 file (201-289248), an HTLINGUAL file, and an Office of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Mr. John Pereira
January 28, 1997
Page 2

Security file.[^1] We have identified references to one or more other possible Oswald files including possible soft files designated as follows: CI/SI, CI/SIG, CI/LSN, and CS/LSN.

1.  Please identify, as specifically as possible, *each* file held by CIA on Oswald at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy.

2.  Other than for the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please explain when each Oswald file was opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and the documents that were in the file at the time of the assassination.

3.  For the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please identify which records (and the total number that) were in the file at the time of the assassination.

4.  To the extent that Counterintelligence and the Office of Security maintained pre-assassination files on Oswald, please explain why those offices maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination. In answering this question, please make appropriate references to the Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB) and to any other materials (including organizational charts) that would help explain the jurisdictional and organization reasons for which CI and OS would have maintained such files.

For each question, please explain the basis for the answer and the sources (records or persons) whom you consulted to answer the question. To the extent that you are not able to answer a question completely, please so indicate and provide the best reasonable answer. If, during the course of your research, you learn that any record relating to a pre-assassination file or record has been destroyed, please provide us with all available information related to the destruction of the records or files.

These queries should be interpreted in their broadest reasonable sense. To the extent that you question whether certain responses may be within the scope of our request, please let us know and we can advise you whether we would wish to include it. We anticipate that the responses to these questions will be referenced in CIA's Final Compliance Statement.

[^1]: One Office of Security file on Oswald (or relating to Oswald) may have been numbered 351-164. In addition, Margaret Stevens may have held an Office of Security "MS-" file on Oswald.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Mr. John Pereira
January 28, 1997
Page 3

We request that you make this information available to us by February 24, 1997. If this does not provide you with sufficient time, please let us know, in writing, by what date you believe you will be able to answer the questions fully.

Thank you for your attention to this matter.

Sincerely,

![signature]

David G. Marwell
Executive Director

Enclosure


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# THE ASSASSINATION MATERIALS DISCLOSURE ACT
# OF 1992

# HEARING

BEFORE THE

# COMMITTEE ON
# GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
# UNITED STATES SENATE

ONE HUNDRED SECOND CONGRESS

SECOND SESSION

ON

# S. J. RES. 282

TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXPEDITIOUS DISCLOSURE OF RECORDS
RELEVANT TO THE ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY

MAY 12, 1992

Printed for the use of the Committee on Governmental Affairs

57-233

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE
WASHINGTON : 1992

For sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office
Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Sales Office, Washington DC 20402

ISBN 0-16-039035-4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

50

degied, you say postponed. I am curious as to how long the post-
ponement will be. Will it be until the national security or privacy
are no longer threatened? Do we want to require a mandatory
review every two years?

Going along, some of the language is fairly broad. We had the
exchange here a few moments ago about an intelligence agent.
Then there is another section that gives us an exception--"an in-
telligence method which is currently utilized, or reasonably expect-
ed to be utilized."

The one that troubles me most, although I know there is a
reason for it, but I just am concerned about the doors it may open,
is "...an invasion of privacy of a living person, whether that
person is identified in the material or not." I am concerned about
that being used as a ground for requesting postponement of disclo-
sure.

So I think, consistent with all that you have said here, I hope
that you will give us the benefit of your second look at that Section
6.of this proposed Act.

Chairman GLENN. Thank you.

Senator Cohen?

Senator COHEN. No further questions.

Chairman GLENN. Good. Thank you very much. We may have ad-
ditional questions. It has been a long session this morning here,
and we have additional questions from other members or questions
after we review. We would appreciate an early reply so it could be
included in the record. Thank you very much. We appreciate.

Mr. STOKES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.

Senator SPECTER. Thank you very much.

Chairman GLENN. The next panel is the Honorable Robert Gates,
Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, and the Honorable
William Sessions, Director of the FBI. Gentlemen, you have been
very patient here this morning. I know we had told you you would
be on by about 10:00 here. We are about an hour late on that, or a
little over. We appreciate your forbearance this morning. We look
forward to your testimony this morning..

Mr. Gates, if you would lead off, we would appreciate it very
much.

TESTIMONY OF THE HON. ROBERT M. GATES, DIRECTOR,
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Mr. GATES. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, I am here
today at your request to provide my views on S. J. Res. 282, the
Assassination Materials Disclosure, Act of 1992, and to describe the
nature of the documents held by the Central Intelligence Agency
that relate to the assassination of John F. Kennedy.

Senator SASSER. Mr. Chairman, I wonder if the Director could
pull the mike just a little bit closer? Thank you.

Mr. GATES. I very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on
this important matter.

Let me begin by stating that I am in complete agreement with
the purpose underlying the joint resolution, that efforts should be
made to declassify and make available to the public as quickly as
possible Government documents relating to the assassination of

51

President Kennedy. We hope that opening up and giving journal-
ists, historians and, most importantly, the public access to govern-
mental files will help to resolve questions that still linger over 28
years after the assassination. Further, I believe that maximum dis-
closure will discredit the theory that CIA had anything to do with
the murder of President Kennedy.

Even before the introduction of this joint resolution, I recognized
the need for greater public access to CIA documents of historical
importance. Two months ago, I announced the establishment of a
new unit within CIA that will be responsible for declassifying as
many historical documents as possible, consistent with the protec-
tion of intelligence sources and methods.

This new unit, the Historical Review Group, in the Agency's
Center for the Study of Intelligence, will review for declassification
documents 30 years old or older and national intelligence estimates
on the former Soviet Union that are 10 years old or older.

In addition to the systematic review of 30-year-old documents, I
have directed the history staff in the Center for the Study of Intel-
ligence to assemble CIA records focusing on particular events of
historical importance, including the assassination of President
Kennedy. The Historical Review Group will then examine the doc-
uments for the purpose of declassifying the records.

Because of high interest in the JFK papers, I am not waiting for
legislation or other agencies to start declassifying documents be-
longing to CIA. The Historical Review Group, at my direction, al-
ready has begun its review of the documents related to the assassi-
nation of President Kennedy, and I am happy to report that the
first group of these records, including all ČIA documents on Lee
Harvey Oswald prior to the assassination, has been declassified
with quite minimal deletions and is being transferred to the Na-
tional Archives for release to the public.

This is, I acknowledge, a small fraction of what we hold, but it is
an earnest of my commitment immediately to begin review for de-
classification of this material. Indeed, as I speak, the reviewers are
going through a substantial number of documents and I anticipate
that many of these will be released shortly.

As we carry out our program to declassify Kennedy assassination
documents, our goal will be to release as many as possible. In fact,
I recently approved a new CIA declassification guideline for our
historical review program which specifically directs a presumption
in favor of declassification. I believe we can be very forward-lean-
ing in making these documents available to the public, and I have
instructed the Historical Review Group to take this attitude to
heart. In this spirit, the Agency today will make publicly available
these new guidelines for historical review and declassification.

To understand the magnitude of the effort involved in reviewing
these documents for declassification, it is important to place them
in some context. The CIA's collection of documents related to the
assassination of President Kennedy consists of approximately
250,000 to 300,000 pages of material. This includes 64 boxes of
copies and originals of information provided to the Warren Com-
mission and the House Select Committee on Assassinations, and 17
boxes of material on Lee Harvey Oswald accumulated after Presi-
dent Kennedy's assassination.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

## 52

Unfortunately, and for reasons that I do not know, what we are dealing with is a mass of material that is not indexed, is uncatalo- gued, and is highly disorganized, all of which makes the review process more difficult. The material contains everything from the most sensitive intelligence sources to the most mundane news clip- pings.

These records include documents that CIA had in its files before the assassination, a large number of records that CIA received later as routine disseminations from other agencies, as well as the reports, correspondence, and other papers that CIA prepared in the course of the assassination investigations. I should emphasize that these records were assembled into the present collection as a result of specific inquiries received from the Warren Commission or the House Select Committee on Assassinations.

Prior to President Kennedy's assassination, CIA held only a small file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 34 documents amounting to 124 pages, some of which originated with the FBI, the State Department, the Navy, and newspaper clippings. Only 11 of these documents originated within CIA. I have brought along a copy of Oswald's file as it existed before the assassination so that you can see firsthand how slender it was at the time. As I have already noted, we have declassified the CIA documents in this file with quite minimal deletions and we are providing them to the Na- tional Archives.

The records in this file dealt with Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union in 1959 and his activities after his return in 1962. By contrast, it was only after the assassination that CIA accumulated the rest of the material on Oswald, some 33,000 pages, most of which CIA received from other agencies after November 22, 1963.

The Committee has asked about documents in our possession generated by other agencies. In fact, much of the material held by CIA originated with other agencies or departments. For example, in the 17 boxes of Oswald records, approximately 40 percent of the documents originated with the FBI and about 20 percent originated from the State Department or elsewhere.

Our staff is still going through the material compiled at the re- quest of the Warren Commission and the House Select Committee on Assassinations, which includes 63 boxes of paper records and one box that contains 73 reels of microfilm. The microfilms, in part, overlap material in other parts of the collection. We estimate that within the 63 boxes of paper records, approximately 27 per- cent originated with a variety of other U.S. Government agencies, private organizations, and foreign and American press.

Although our documents do include many documents from other agencies, we nonetheless have a substantial collection of CIA docu- ments that will require considerable effort to review, and as I said earlier, at my direction, this review for declassification is now un- derway.

A preliminary survey of these files has provided us some indica- tions of what they contain. Although the records cover a wide vari- ety of topics, they principally focus on CIA activities concerning Cuba and Castro, Oswald's defection to the Soviet Union, and Os- wald's subsequent activities in Mexico City and New Orleans. They also include a large number of name traces requested by the staff

## 53

of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, as well as mate- rial relating to the Garrison investigation and Cuban exile activi- ties.

The CIA cannot release a number of documents unilaterally be- cause of the limits in the Privacy Act which protect the names of American citizens against unauthorized disclosure, the sequestra- tion of many documents by the House Select Committee on Assassi- nations, and the fact that many of the documents belong to agen- cies other than CIA.

However, we have already taken steps to lift the sequestration, to coordinate with other agencies, and to begin the process of de- classification. If necessary, in the absence of legislation, I will ask the House of Representatives for a resolution permitting CIA to re- lease the results of the declassification effort on the sequestered documents.

While I expect a large amount of the material can be declassified under our program, I assume that there will be information that cannot be released to the public for a variety of reasons, including privacy concerns or the exposure of intelligence sources and meth- ods. Let me take a moment to give an example of this type of mate- rial.

During the investigation by the House Select Committee on As- sassinations, I understand that security and personnel files were requested on a number of CIA employees. These files contain fit- ness reports, or performance evaluations, medical evaluations, and credit checks on individual CIA officers. Although irrelevant to the question of who killed President Kennedy, these and other personal documents ultimately ended up in the sequestered collection of doc- uments. I do not believe that the benefit to the public of disclosure of this information outweighs the clear privacy interest of the indi- viduals in keeping the information confidential.

Similar privacy concerns exist with documents containing derog- atory information on particular individuals where the information is based on gossip and rumor. Our files also contain the names of individuals who provided us intelligence information on a promise of confidentiality. We would not disclose their names in breach of such a promise. Where we cannot disclose such information to the public, the Agency will make redactions and summarize the infor- mation in order to ensure that the maximum amount of informa- tion is released, while still protecting the identity of an agent or the privacy of an individual.

If legislation is not passed by the Congress and signed by the President regarding the JFK papers, to enhance public confidence and to provide reassurance that CIA has not held back information relevant to the assassination, I would appoint a panel of distin- guished Americans from outside of Government, perhaps including distinguished former jurists, to examine whatever documents we have redacted or kept classified. They would then issue an unclassi- fied public report on their findings.

The effort required to declassify the documents relating to the assassination of President Kennedy will be daunting. However, it is an important program and I am committed to making it work. Even in a time of diminishing resources within the intelligence community, I have allocated 15 full-time positions to expand the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

13-00000

54

history staff and to form the Historical Review Group that will
review the JFK documents and other documents of historical inter-
est.

I believe these actions attest to the seriousness of our intent to
getting these papers declassified and released, and to open what re-
mains classified to outside non-governmental review. It is against
this background that in response to the Committee's request, I cite
our few technical reservations about the mechanism established by
the joint resolution to achieve this same result. I intend to address
only intelligence community concerns. I will defer to the Depart-
ment of Justice on any additional problems posed by the joint reso-
lution.

First, vesting in an outside body the determination as to whether
CIA materials related to the assassination can be released to the
public is inconsistent with my own statutory responsibility for the
protection of intelligence sources and methods.

Second, I am concerned that the joint resolution contains no pro-
vision requiring security clearances or secure document handling
by the assassination materials review board or its staff.

Third, I am concerned that the joint resolution does not provide
the Agency with the opportunity to object to the release of CIA in-
formation contained in documents originated by Congress or the
Warren Commission. Under the joint resolution, documents origi-
nated by these entities can be released directly by the executive di-
rector of the assassination materials review board without any
review by the President or other Executive Branch agencies.

Fourth, the joint resolution provision for a 30-day period for
agencies or departments to appeal decisions by the executive direc-
tor to release information may not provide sufficient time for
meaningful review of what could prove to be a large volume of ma-
terial at one time.

Fifth, and finally, Section 6 of the joint resolution, which out-
lines the grounds for postponement of public release of a document,
makes no provision for postponing release of documents that may
contain Executive privilege or deliberative process, attorney-client,
or attorney work product information. While such privileges could
be waived in the public interest and, in fact, are not likely to arise
with respect to factual information directly related to the JFK as-
sassination, they would be unavailable under the joint resolution in
the rare case they might be needed.

These are the technical problems that I believe can be solved and
that will, in fact, expedite the release of documents bearing on the
assassination of President Kennedy. But, again, whatever the
future course of this legislation, CIA is proceeding even now to
review for declassification the relevant documents under its con-
trol. Further, we will cooperate fully with any mechanism estab-
lished by the Congress and the President to declassify all of this
material.

Mr. Chairman, let me close with a comment on why I am person-
ally committed to getting these documents out. Like all Americans
old enough to remember that terrible day in 1963, and as several
members of the Committee have alluded to, I also remember where
I was and what I was doing.

55

I was a college student at William and Mary, and I can remem-
ber how the word spread like wild fire between classes of that hor-
rible event. I made my way to Washington that weekend and stood
at the intersection of Constitution and Pennsylvania Avenues,
where I waited for hours to watch the President's funeral cortege. I
will never forget it.

I entered public service less than three years later, heeding
President Kennedy's inaugural call, a call I think many in my gen-
eration heard. He said then, "Now, the trumpet summons us again,
not as a call to bear arms, though arms we need, not as a call to
battle, though in battle we are, but as a call to bear the burden of
a long twilight struggle, year in and year out, rejoicing in hope, pa-
tient in tribulation, a struggle against the common enemies of
man-tyranny, poverty, disease, and war itself."

Mr. Chairman, the only thing more horrifying to me than the as-
sassination itself is the insidious, perverse notion that elements of
the American Government, that my own Agency, had some part in
it. I am determined personally to make public or to expose to disin-
terested eyes every relevant scrap of paper in CIA's possession, in
the hope of helping to dispel this corrosive suspicion. With or with-
out legislation, I intend to proceed. I believe I owe that to his
memory.

Thank you.

[The prepared statement of Mr. Gates follows:]

PREPARED STATEMENT OF MR. GATES

Mr. Chairman, I am here today at your request to provide my views on S. J. Res.
282, "The Assassination Materials Disclosure Act of 1992," and to describe the
nature of documents held by the CIA that relate to the assassination of John F.
Kennedy. I very much appreciate the opportunity to speak on this important
matter.

Let me begin by stating that I am in complete agreement with the purpose under-
lying the joint resolution-that efforts should be made to declassify and make avail-
able to the public as quickly as possible Government documents relating to the as-
sassination of John F. Kennedy. We hope that opening up and giving journalists,
historians and, most importantly, the public access to governmental files will help
to resolve questions that still linger over 28 years after the assassination. Further, I
believe that maximum disclosure will discredit the theory that CIA had anything to
do with the murder of John F. Kennedy.

Even before introduction of this joint resolution, I recognized the need for greater
public access to CIA documents of historical importance. Two months ago, I an-
nounced the establishment of a new unit within CIA that will be responsible for
declassifying as many historical documents as possible consistent with the protec-
tion of intelligence sources and methods. This new unit, the Historical Review
Group, in the Agency's Center for the Study of Intelligence, will review for declassi-
fication documents 30 years old or older, and national intelligence estimates on the
former Soviet Union that are 10 years old or older. In addition to the systematic
review of 30-year-old documents, I have directed the History Staff in the Center for
the Study of Intelligence to assemble CIA records focusing on particular events of
historical importance, including the assassination of President Kennedy. The Histor-
ical Review Group will then examine the documents for the purpose of declassifying
the records.

Because of high interest in the JFK papers, I am not waiting for legislation or
other agencies to start declassifying documents belonging to CIA. The Historical
Review Group, at my direction, already has begun its review of the documents relat-
ed to the assassination of John F. Kennedy, and I am glad to report that the first
group of these records, including all CIA documents on Lee Harvey Oswald prior to
the assassination, has been declassified with quite minimal deletions and is being
transferred to the National Archives for release to the public. This is, I acknowl-
edge, a small fraction of what we have, but it is an earnest of my commitment to


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

56

begin review for declassification immediately of this material. And, indeed, as I
speak, the reviewers are going through a substantial number of documents, and I
anticipate that many of these will be released shortly.

As we carry out our program to declassify Kennedy assassination documents, our
goal will be to release as many as possible. In fact, I recently approved a new CIA
declassification guideline for our Historical Review Program which specifically di-
rects a presumption in favor of declassification. I believe we can be very forward
leaning in making these documents available to the public, and I have instructed
the Historical Review Group to take this attitude to heart.

To understand the magnitude of the effort involved in reviewing these documents
for declassification, it is important to place them in some context. The CIA's collec-
tion of documents related to the assassination of President Kennedy consists of ap-
proximately 250,000-300,000 pages of material. This includes 64 boxes of copies and
originals of information provided to the Warren Commission and the House Select
Committee on Assassinations and 17 boxes of material on Lee Harvey Oswald accu-
mulated after President Kennedy's assassination. Unfortunately, and for reasons
that I do not know, what we are dealing with is a mass of material that is not in-
dexed, is uncatalogued, and is highly disorganized all of which makes the review
process more difficult. The material contains everything from the most sensitive in-
telligence sources to the most mundane news clippings.

These records include documents that CIA had in its files before the assassina-
tion, a large number of records that CIA received later as routine disseminations
from other agencies, as well as the reports, correspondence, and other papers that
CIA prepared in the course of the assassination investigations. I should emphasize
that these records were assembled into the present collection as a result of specific
inquiries received from the Warren Commission or the House Select Committee on
Assassinations. I have prepared a chart that illustrates this point.

As you can see, prior to President Kennedy's assassination, CIA held only a small
file on Lee Harvey Oswald that consisted of 33 documents (approximately 110
pages), some of which originated with the FBI, State Department, the Navy, and
newspaper clippings. Only 11 documents originated with the CIA. I have brought
along a copy of Oswald's file as it existed before the assassination so that you can
see first-hand how slender it was at the time. As I have already noted, we have de-
classified the CIA documents in this file with quite minimal deletions, and we are
providing them to the National Archives. The records in this file dealt with Os-
wald's defection to the Soviet Union in 1959 and his activities after his return in
1961. By contrast, it was only after the assassination that CIA accumulated the rest
of the material on Oswald-some 33,000 pages-most of which CIA received from
other agencies after November 22, 1963.

You have asked about documents in our possession generated by other agencies.
In fact, much of the material held by CIA originated with other agencies or depart-
ments. For example, in the 17 boxes of Oswald records, approximately 40 percent of
the documents originated with the FBI, and about 20 percent originated from the
State Department or elsewhere. Our staff is still going through the material com-
piled at the request of the Warren Commission and the House Select Committee on
Assassinations, which includes 63 boxes of paper records and one box that contains
72 reels of microfilm. The microfilms, in part, overlap material in other parts of the
collection. We estimate that within the 63 boxes of paper records, approximately 27
percent of the documents originated with a variety of other U.S. Government agen-
cies, private organizations, and foreign and American press.

Although our holdings do include many documents from other agencies, we none-
theless have a substantial collection of CIA documents that will require considerable
effort to review, and as I said earlier, at my direction, this review for declassifica-
tion is now underway. A preliminary survey of these files has provided us some in-
dications of what they contain. Although the records cover a wide variety of topics,
they principally focus on CIA activities concerning Cuba and Castro, Oswald's defec-
tion to the Soviet Union, and Oswald's subsequent activities in Mexico City and
New Orleans. They also include a large number of name traces requested by the
staff of the House Select Committee on Assassinations, as well as material relating
to the Garrison investigation and Cuban exile activities.

The CIA cannot release a number of documents unilaterally because of the limits
in the Privacy Act (which protects the names of American citizens against unau-
thorized disclosure), the sequestration of many documents by the House Select Com-
mittee on Assassinations, and the fact that many of the documents belong to agen-
cies other than CIA. However, we have already taken steps to lift the sequestration,
coordinate with other agencies and to begin the process of declassification. If neces-

57

sary, I will ask the House for a resolution permitting CIA to release the results of
the declassification effort on the sequestered documents.

While I expect a large amount of the material can be declassified under our pro-
gram, I assume that there still will be information that cannot be released to the
public for a variety of reasons, including privacy concerns or the exposure of intelli-
gence sources and methods. Let me take a moment to give examples of this type of
material. During the investigation by the House Select Committee on Assassina-
tions, I understand that security and personnel files were requested on a number of
Agency employees. These files contain fitness reports, (performance evaluations),
medical evaluations and credit checks on individual CIA officers. Although irrele-
vant to the question of who killed President Kennedy, these and other personal doc-
uments ultimately ended up in the sequestered collection of documents. I do not be-
lieve that the benefit to the public of disclosure of this information outweighs the
clear privacy interest of the individuals in keeping the information confidential.
Similar privacy concerns exist with documents containing derogatory information
on particular individuals where the information is based on gossip and rumor. Our
files also contain the names of individuals who provided us intelligence information
on a promise of confidentiality. We would not disclose their names in breach of such
a promise. Where we cannot disclose such information to the public, the Agency will
make redactions and summarize the information in order to ensure that the maxi-
mum amount of information is released while still protecting the identity of an
agent or the privacy of an individual.

If legislation is not passed by the Congress and signed by the President regarding
the JFK papers, to enhance public confidence and provide reassurance that CIA has
not held back any information relevant to the assassination, I will appoint a panel
of distinguished Americans from outside of Government to examine whatever docu-
ments we have redacted or kept classified. They would then issue an unclassified
public report on their findings.

The effort required to declassify the documents related to the assassination of
President Kennedy will be daunting. However, it is an important program and I am
personally committed to making it work. Even in a time of diminishing resources
within the Intelligence Community, I have allocation of 15 full-time positions to
expand the History Staff and to form the Historical Review Group that will review
the JFK documents and other documents of historical interest.

I believe these actions attest to the seriousness of our intent to get these papers
declassified and released, and to open what remains classified to outside, non-gov-
ernmental review. It is against this background that, in response to this Commit-
tee's request, I cite our technical reservations about the mechanism established by
the joint resolution to achieve this same result. I intend to address only Intelligence
Community concerns; I will defer to the Department of Justice on any additional
problems posed by the joint resolution.

First, vesting in an outside body the determination as to whether CIA materials
related to the assassination can be released to the public is inconsistent with my
statutory responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods.

Second, I am concerned that the joint resolution contains no provision requiring
security_clearances or secure document handling by the Assassination Materials
Review Board or its staff.

Third, I am concerned that the joint resolution does not provide the Agency with
the opportunity to object to the release of CIA information contained in documents
originated by Congress or the Warren Commission. Under the joint resolution, docu-
ments originated by these entities can be released directly by the Executive Director
of the Assassination Materials Review Board without any review by the President
or other Executive Branch agencies.

Fourth, the joint resolution provision for a 30-day period for agencies or depart-
ments to appeal decisions by the Executive Director to release information may not
provide sufficient time for meaningful review of what could prove to be a large
volume of material at one time.

Fifth, and finally, section 6 of the joint resolution, which outlines the grounds for
postponement of public release of a document, makes no provision for postponing
release of documents that may contain Executive privilege or deliberative process,
attorney-client, or attorney work product information. While such privileges could
be waived in the public interest and, in fact, are not likely to arise with respect to
factual information directly related to the JFK assassination, they would be un-
available under the joint resolution in the rare case they might be needed.

These are the technical problems that I believe can be solved and that will, in
fact, expedite the release of documents bearing on the assassination of President
Kennedy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

58
But, again, whatever the future course of this legislation, CIA is proceeding even now to review for declassification the relevant documents under its control. Further, we will cooperate fully with any mechanism established by the Congress and the President to declassify all of this material.

Chairman GLENN. Thank you, Mr. Gates.

Mr. Sessions.

TESTIMONY OF THE HON. WILLIAM S. SESSIONS, DIRECTOR, FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION; ACCOMPANIED BY DAVID G. LEITCH, DEPUTY ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Mr. SESSIONS. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, members of the Committee. I have a complete statement which I will file, and there are some diagrams which I will also make available for the record, and a photograph of the files themselves.

Chairman GLENN. Without objection, your entire statement will be included in the record.

Mr. SESSIONS. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased to appear before you to testify about FBI investigative records relating to the assassination of President John F. Kennedy. I applaud this process and your efforts. It is fundamental that Government exist to meet the needs of its citizens. An examination of these issues is directly related to satisfying the intense interest and concern of our citizens about the circumstances surrounding that tragic event some 29 years ago.

From the outset, I would like to state emphatically that I favor maximum disclosure, consistent with the law and the legitimate need to protect certain small but highly sensitive categories of information. I can assure you that the FBI will work cooperatively through the Department of Justice with both the Senate and the House to develop a comprehensive approach to these important issues.

As you know, the Government has conducted a number of reviews of the assassination. The Warren Commission, the House Assassinations Committee, and the Church Committee all conducted reviews that I believe can be best categorized as exhaustive. It is my understanding that the FBI provided massive amounts of information to those entities to help ensure that they accomplished their missions. Once again, we desire to be as helpful as we are able.

Immediately following the shooting of President Kennedy, the FBI began a massive investigation. An intense effort was made. Related investigations were conducted and much information was exchanged, as Director Gates has noted, between the various agencies. As is the case with all major investigations, thousands of pages of documents were created to record the results of these efforts and to facilitate the investigations.

Many different kinds of information were recorded in the FBI files. The results of thousands of interviews of witnesses, other individuals with possible helpful knowledge, and contacts with confidential informants were memorialized. Communications between the FBI headquarters and our field offices, and vice versa, were included, as were communications between the FBI and other agencies. Forensic reports were recorded. In all, FBI files relating to the
59
assassination contained over 499,000 pages of documents, with a few more pages added every time the FBI follows up on a new allegation or a new issue arises.

After Congress amended the Freedom of Information Act in 1974, the FBI began receiving requests for information relating to the assassination. By 1978, four years later, over 200,000 pages of material had been processed and made available to the public through the FBI's public reading room. Many authors, journalists, historians, and others have visited and revisited these materials, which remain available today as a valuable source of historic information.

I would like to briefly describe to the Committee a breakdown of FBI records relating in some way to the assassination. The FBI has four core files that relate directly to the investigation of the assassination. Our cooperation with the Warren Commission and the investigation of Lee Harvey Oswald and Jack Ruby-those are the four core files. There are approximately 499,000 pages in these files, 263,000 of which are duplicate pages that were cross-filed, third agency records, and some FBI records that have not been processed pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act.

Approximately 223,000 pages, or 94 percent of the records we have processed, have already been released to the public. In addition, the FBI has several other much smaller files as a result of other directly related investigations, such as the investigation of Marina Oswald, and these files comprise approximately 22,000 pages, 13,000 of which are duplicate, third agency, or unprocessed pages. Fifty-eight percent of these pages processed pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act have been released to the public.

Of the pages available in the FBI reading room on the main floor at FBI headquarters, approximately 189,000 pages, or 94 percent, are available in their entirety. The remaining 12,000 pages in the reading room reflect some degree of redaction. The information that has not been disclosed or that has been redacted to some degree falls within the exemptions that are enumerated in the Freedom of Information Act and the protections of the Privacy Act.

This includes information that, one, is classified on the basis of national security; two, would disclose the identities of individuals who specifically requested confidentiality; three, would disclose the identities of confidential informants or sources; four, is highly personal information about individuals; or, five, originated with other Government agencies and those agencies specifically requested that the information not be released based upon exemptions applicable to those particular agencies.

While I strongly favor maximum disclosure under the law, there are certain types of information that are particularly critical to successful law enforcement investigations and national security; for example, information that is properly and appropriately classified, information that would identify confidential sources, and information that would disclose sensitive investigative techniques or the types of information the disclosure of which could negatively impact upon our ability to fulfill our mission. Information in FBI files that has not been disclosed publicly falls largely within these descriptions of information.

In any case, I believe it is extremely healthy for the country to have these issues aired and to be resolved. The public interest dic-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

CIA SP
R

97-062
31 January 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Fred Wickham
DO Focal Point
for JFK Board

Lee Strickland
DA Focal Point
for JFK Board

FROM:

John F. Pereira
Chief, Historical
Review Group

SUBJECT:

Request No. CIA-16
from JFK Board

1. Attached is "Request for Additional Information and Records No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination Files)", which was received from the Assassination Records Review Board on 29 January 1997. The request is for additional details related to files on Lee Harvey Oswald that may have existed in the Office of Security and in the DO.

2. Please advise how you would like us to respond to this request. We are asked to make the information available to the Board by 24 February 1997.

![signature of John Pereira]
John Pereira

Attachment

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

27 February 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: Janet A. Ecklund
Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

REFERENCE: CSI 97-062 dated 31 January 1997

1. (U) The Office of Personnel Security has researched this request from the Assassination Records Review Board relating to the existence of pre-assassination files on Lee Harvey Oswald.

2. (U) In response to the specific questions listed in Mr. Marwell's letter to the Historical Review Group, the following responses are provided to those three questions pertaining to the Office of Personnel Security (OPS). These responses are the best reasonable answers based on available information. Please note OPS was known as the Office of Security prior to 1 October 1994.

Question 1: (U) Please identify, as specifically as possible, each file held by CIA on Oswald at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy.

Response: (U) At the time of the assassination, the Office of Security (OS) held two files which contained information on Lee Harvey Oswald. A file entitled Defectors File (#0341008) contained a reference to Lee Harvey Oswald,

Regraded Confidential
When Separated From
Secret Attachment

CL BY: 0605636
CL Reason: 1.5(c)
DECL ON: X1
DRV FROM: COV 1-82

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

and the Office of Security also had a subject file on Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164). This information was reflected in the automated security database known as the Management Data Program/Personnel Security (MDP/PS). These files were originally miscellaneous files which were converted to the above numbers circa 1964. A hand search was also conducted of microfiche records which were superseded by the automated system. This hand search produced the same results as the automated search of MDP/PS.

(U) In your request specific mention is made of an HTLINGUAL file. MDP/PS reflects OS maintained four official files under this project--#0077826 (an administrative file), #0090079, #0093466 (a general file), and #0119144. All of the HTLINGUAL files were destroyed on 8 April 1994 along with numerous soft files. Since this material has been destroyed, OPS cannot definitively state whether these files contained any information on Lee Harvey Oswald. A search of Oswald's name did not produce an index reference to any of these files.

(U) Attached is all of the available information regarding the destruction of the HTLINGUAL files. This information was retrieved from Lydia Hoffman of the Information Management Branch/Records Control Section and from a review of general office administrative files.

Question 2: (U) Other than for the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please explain when each Oswald file was opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and the documents that were in the file at the time of the assassination.

Response: (U) As noted above, all HTLINGUAL files have been destroyed. Since OS files are usually set up in chronological sequence, a search of files with numbers in close proximity to those recorded for HTLINGUAL was undertaken. This search revealed the approximate opening dates for the four official HTLINGUAL files as:

#0077826 Opened approximately July 1952
#0090079 Opened approximately February 1953
#0093466 Opened approximately July 1953
#0119144 Opened approximately May 1955

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

(U) HTLINGUAL was a Directorate of Operations project that involved opening incoming and outgoing mail destined to and from the Soviet Union, China, Pakistan, and South America. In OS this project was known as SRPOINTER with subprojects identified as WESTPOINTER, INDIAN, BANJO, and SETTER. OS conducted the actual opening and monitoring of mail with the acquired information referred to the Directorate of Operations.

(U) The Defectors File (#0341008) was established circa 1950 for the purpose of recording information on US citizens defecting to other countries and information regarding foreign nationals considering defection to the United States. This compilation of information was received from press clippings, Directorate of Operations reporting, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of State, and the various armed services. The pre-assassination documents located in this file relative to Lee Harvey Oswald are:

a. Washington Star press clipping of 26 November 1959 entitled "U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to Marx at 15"

b. Department of State memorandum dated 25 October 1960 with attached list of American "defectors" from May 1959 to October 1960

c. Memorandum for Chief/Security Research Staff dated 31 October 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject: American Defectors

d. Memorandum for Deputy Director of Security dated 1 November 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject: American Defectors

e. Handwritten chart of defectors dated 26 August 1961

f. Defector outline prepared in October 1961 listing known defectors to the USSR, Red China, Cuba, and United Arab Republic.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

(U) The index reference to the Defectors File identifies a list dated 13 September 1966 which was known as the Defector Machine Listing. This listing was a computer printout of defectors which reflected limited biographic data on each name. This listing was maintained separately from the actual Defectors File; notations within the Defectors File show the Defector Machine Listing as permanently charged to the Security Analysis Group of OS. Efforts to locate this listing or determine the disposition have been unsuccessful.

(U) Information regarding the purpose of the Defectors File was gleaned from a quick review of selected holdings. Katie Nakai of this office at one time was assigned to the Security Analysis Group and recalls the Defector Machine Listing. From her recollection, this machine listing was approximately one and one-half inches thick and was in two parts. One part consisted of an alphabetical index of defector names with assigned numbers. The second part listed the assigned numbers in numerical order and contained limited information on each name.

(C) The Special Investigations Branch of Investigations Division is the current operating component encompassing most of the Security Analysis Group functions still conducted in OPS. Gail Jewell of this office was queried regarding office holdings relating to the Defector Machine Listing. Ms. Jewell had no knowledge of the listing and suggested William Gilbert as a resource. Mr. Gilbert, CIC Liaison Officer, could not recall the listing, opined it may have been destroyed, and suggested contacting Zachary Filis of the Counterintelligence Center (CIC).

(C) CIC assumed many of the functions previously conducted by the Security Analysis Group. Mr. Filis was queried regarding the possibility the Defector Machine Listing may have been transferred to CIC during the realignment of duties. Mr. Filis advised the Defector Machine Listing could not be located in CIC holdings; and he has made inquiries with Directorate of Operations counterparts regarding the listing.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

(U) The subject file pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164) was established circa 1960. It appears this file was created as a separate repository for the numerous press clippings and reports received from other government agencies on the defection of Lee Harvey Oswald to the USSR and his activities following his return to the United States. The first volume of this file appears to have been preserved as the pre-assassination file, and the documents contained in this file are as follows:

a. Department of State telegram #1304 from Moscow dated 31 October 1959

b. The Washington Post press clipping dated 1 November 1959 entitled "Ex-Marine Asks Soviet Citizenship"

c. Department of State Dispatch #234 from Moscow dated 2 November 1959

d. Department of State telegram #1448 from Tokyo dated 9 November 1959

e. Department of State telegram #31358 from Moscow dated 9 November 1959

f. The Washington Post press clipping dated 16 November 1959 entitled "Rebuffed"

g. Evening Star press clipping dated 26 November 1959 entitled "U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to Marx at 15"

h. Report Summary prepared by Soviet Russia Division forwarded to Office of Security in March 1960

i. Department of State Instruction A-273 dated 13 April 1961

j. Department of State Dispatch from Moscow dated May 1961 with enclosure of Oswald letter

5

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

k. Federal Bureau of Investigation report dated
3 July 1961 from Dallas, Texas

l. Note to CI/SI dated 28 September 1961

m. Form 745 "Indices Search Request" dated
12 October 1961

n. Department of State Dispatch #317 from Moscow
dated 12 October 1961 with enclosure

o. Form G-135a Immigration and Naturalization
Service name check form to Central Intelligence
Agency dated 5 December 1961

p. Navy Department message to Moscow dated
3 March 1962

q. Department of the Navy memorandum to the Federal
Bureau of Investigation dated 26 April 1962 with
enclosure

r. The Washington Post press clipping dated
9 June 1962 entitled "Third American in 2 Months
Leaves Soviet 'Home'"

s. Federal Bureau of Investigation transmittal
of report from Dallas, Texas, dated 30 August
1962.

(U) In addition to those documents listed above, the
following documents were located in a subsequent volume of
the Oswald file and also appear to predate the assassination
of President Kennedy.

t. Undated summary of file information on Lee
Harvey Oswald

u. Incoming cable #83858 from Mexico City dated
20 July 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

v. Incoming cable #01325 from Mexico City dated
17 August 1963 (no mention of Oswald)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

w. Incoming cable #36017 from Mexico City dated
9 October 1963

x. Outgoing cable #74830 to Mexico City dated
10 October 1963

y. Incoming cable #47041 from Mexico City dated
24 October 1963 (no mention of Oswald).

Question 4: (U) To the extent that Counterintelligence
and the Office of Security maintained pre-assassination
files on Oswald, please explain why those offices
maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination.
In answering this question, please make appropriate
references to the Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB)
and to any other materials (including organizational
charts) that would help explain the jurisdictional and
organization reasons for which CI and OS would have
maintained such files.

Response: (U) It is believed that OS holdings on Lee
Harvey Oswald began in 1959 with his travel to Russia during
which he renounced his US citizenship. Oswald was in
contact with the American Embassy in Moscow, and the
Department of State prepared reports on these contacts.
Most likely because of counterintelligence concerns, the
Central Intelligence Agency was included in the distribution
of these reports. In the beginning this material was
probably retained in the Defectors File. As the number of
documents on this person increased, a separate file was
created to be the repository of information on the alleged
American defector. There is a notation in the Defectors
File that a separate file exists on Oswald.

(U) Both the Defectors File (#0341008) and the file of
Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164) were handled by Marguerite D.
Stevens of the OS/Security Research Staff during the pre-
assassination time frame. Of the documents listed above, a
majority of them contain a notation or the initials of
Marguerite D. Stevens, leading one to believe she was the
officer responsible for the collection, analysis, and filing
of this information.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

13-00000

SECRET

(U) The Security Research Staff (SRS) was the component responsible for collecting, developing, and evaluating information of a counterintelligence nature to detect and/or prevent penetration of the Agency's organization, employees, and activities by foreign or domestic organizations or individuals. SRS conducted research in connection with employee loyalty cases and maintained records identifying personalities, environments, and personal traits of individuals who had been of counterintelligence interest over the years. SRS maintained liaison with various government agencies in connection with counterintelligence activities and coordinated the counterintelligence effort throughout OS. Using organizational charts of this time period, SRS reported directly to the office of the Director of Security.

(U) Don Staton of the OPS/Management Staff was queried regarding the mission and functions of SRS during the pre- assassination time period. Mr. Staton made inquiries relating to the above request, and the OPS/Information Management Officer Ronda Allen retrieved retired policy records for review. The information on the mission and function of SRS was retrieved from the archived Office of Security administrative and historical files as well as a review of the security file on Marguerite D. Stevens.

3. (U) For your information, a page-by-page review of the documents contained in the Defectors File (12 volumes) and Lee Harvey Oswald's file (7 volumes) has not been conducted for the purposes of this request. Our efforts were concentrated on the pre-assassination time frame.

4. (U) This review was conducted by Katie Nakai,
   OPS/CD/IMB, secure 40552

![signature of Janet A. Ecklund]
Janet A. Ecklund

Attachment

8

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

On 8 April 1994, the complete set of SRPOINTER and HTLINGUAL security support files and indexes held by the Office of Security were destroyed in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the approved Records Control Schedules 31-76 and 31-83 and by the Office of General Counsel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

OGC-94-51066
6 April 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: Terri Eagal
Information Review Team
Office of Security

VIA: Robert J. Eatinger
Assistant General Counsel
Litigation Division

FROM: Stephen K. DiRubio
Information Management Officer
Office of General Counsel

SUBJECT: HTLINGUAL/SRPOINTER File Destruction

1. This responds to your memo of 9 February 1994 requesting confirmation that the security support files of the HTLINGUAL project are not the subject of a current litigation, investigation, or other inquiry that would preclude their destruction pursuant to normal guidelines for records of this type. A review of OGC files located no currently active cases involving the HTLINGUAL project. Therefore, OGC poses no objection to destruction of the files if authorized by your approved records disposition schedule.

2. For your information I have attached a copy of a March 1990 memorandum in which OGC provided guidance to the DO regarding destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL project files. According to that memorandum, files pertaining to HTLINGUAL may be destroyed only if: (1) they meet the criteria for destruction on the applicable NARA approved records disposition schedule; (2) are not responsive to a FOIA or Privacy Act request currently being processed by the office concerned; and (3) do not document the initiation, implementation, and termination of the projects, or constitute files on U.S. persons of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence value which the Agency is required to maintain. As the attachment indicates, NARA's requirement that the SSCI concur in any proposed destruction has already been met.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

SECRET

SUBJECT: HTLINGUAL/SRPOINTER File Destruction

3. I apologize for the delay in responding to your request. Please let me know if I may be of further assistance.

![Signature of Stephen K. DiRubio]

Stephen K. DiRubio

Attachment:
As Stated

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

SUBJECT: HTLINGUAL/SRPOINTER File Destruction

DCI/OGC/REG/SKDiRubio:skd/76195) (6 Apr 94)

Distribution:
Original - Addressee
1 - OGC Registry

3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# MEMORANDUM FOR:

C/OIT/IMB

# FROM:

W. George Jameson
Chief, Litigation Division, OGC

# SUBJECT:

Destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Project Files

# REFERENCE:

Request for Authorization to Retain or Destroy Questionable Records: 141C's for MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL Projects, from IMS/MPG/IRMB, dated 18 December 1989

1.  The referenced request seeks concurrence for the destruction of MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL files in accordance with routine records destruction schedules approved by the National Archivist. Subject to the qualifications set forth below, the proposed destruction can proceed without legal objection.

2.  On several occasions over the past 12 years, DO/IMS has proposed that the Agency identify and destroy MHCHAOS and HTLINGUAL records in accordance with routine records destruction schedules. The major reason not to do so has been the existence of litigation that has necessitated retention of those records. With the settlement of the National Lawyers' Guild litigation, a major obstacle to routine records destruction appears to have been eliminated.

3.  That case alone, however, does not govern the records retention or _destruction of MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL files. In addition, destruction may proceed only in accordance with the records disposition authorization provided by the Archivist on 17 March 1978. (Job Nos. NC1-263-77-18 and NC1-263-78-1). The approval given by the Archivist is subject to essentially the following conditions: (1) files and documents that are the objects of FOIA and Privacy Act requests, or those involved in any other litigation, are not to be destroyed; (2) files that document the initiation, implementation, and termination of the projects, and other files on U.S. persons of foreign Intelligence or counterintelligence value which the Agency is required to maintain, are not to be destroyed; (3) no disposal will occur prior to review and concurrence of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

4.  In reviewing the materials you have provided, I have been able to conclude that then SSCI Chairman, Birch Bayh, in several separate letters dated 6 April 1978, informed the DCI that the Committee had no objection to the implementation of the records disposal lists approved by the Archivist. In my


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

view, therefore, condition number (3) has been satisfied. Accordingly, with the exception of the case of Hurwitz v. United States, there appear to be no ongoing court cases relating to MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL files that necessitate the retention of those materials. All HTLINGUAL materials relating to Leo T. Hurwitz, therefore, should be retained. In addition, any records pertaining to Dr. Sidney M. Peck (Peck v. CIA) should be retained. I am not aware of any other matters that would require retention of the files at the present time, but you should contact the Agency's FOIA Coordinator to determine if there are any outstanding FOIA or Privacy Act requests relating to MHCHAOS or HTLINGUAL that should not be destroyed. If so, materials should be retained in accordance with the requirements of the Records Disposal List. Finally, of course, information that the Agency must maintain that is of foreign intelligence value also should not be destroyed.

4. I would also point out that the terms of the National Lawyers Guild settlement require that all agencies of the Federal Government, including the CIA, shall not use, release or disclose, within or outside the Government, certain information relating to the National Lawyers Guild and its subunits. Accordingly, if there is CIA information derived from the FBI's investigation relating to the National Lawyers' Guild, Agency records, files or indices must be appropriately marked so as to permit implementation of the settlement agreement. This means that, to the extent MHCHAOS records are not isolated but are contained in other Agency files, some means of ensuring that the information is not disseminated must be made.

5. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions.

W. George Jameson

cc: C/ALD/OGC

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

9 February 1994

MEMORANDUM FOR: OGC/Litigation STEVE

FROM: Terri Eagal
Information Review Team

SUBJECT: Files Scheduled For Destruction

1. On 7 February 1994, this office was given direction by Mr. Archibald, Legal Advisor for the Office of Security, to deal directly with your office in reference to the attached.

2. If you have any questions about the attached, please feel free to call on 40615. Your prompt assistance in this matter is greatly appreciated.

3. Thank you for your coordination and cooperation in assisting the Records Control Schedule Analysts; Terri Eagal 40615 and Lydia Hoffman 40616.

![signature]

Information Review Team


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

13-00000

SECRET

'9 December 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: James Archibald
Office of Security, Legal Advisor

FROM: Terri Eagal
Information Review Team

SUBJECT: HT LINGUAL Security Support Files/SR POINTER
Files

1. On 7 December 1993, this office coordinated with Barry
   Zeeman of DO/IMS, on 47411, in reference to the HT LINGUAL.
   Security Support Files/SR POINTER Files. I asked Mr. Zeeman if
   his office had any problems with our office destroying these
   files as they were within our guidelines for destruction. He
   responded by saying that they had retired their files in 1991 and
   would have to look into it further. On 8 December 1993, Mr.
   Zeeman called to say that his office, DO/IMS, had no problem with
   us-destroying our support files to their HT LINGUAL project as
   they destroyed their files in the late 1980's. The few files
   they retired in 1991 were on the Administrative and Policy issues
   of HT LINGUAL.

2. Since the DO no longer has a need for the information
   in these files (list is attached) and has essentially approved
   their destruction, we have supplied to you copies of our own
   Security Records Control Schedule which verifies that these files
   meet destruction criteria. As you can see though, by the comment
   on the SR POINTER Files, we need to be sure there is no
   litigation open before we destroy.

3. In light of paragraph 2, our office now awaits OGC
   approval. Your coordination with OGC in this effort is greatly
   appreciated. Please note, destruction of these files include the
   SR POINTER name index which is currently utilized by this office
   for the Freedom Of Information Act (FOIA) and Privacy Act (PA)
   cases. Destruction of this index will aid in decreasing
   unnecessary review and research on part of FOIA and PA.

4. Thank you. If we can be of any assistance to you,
   please call either Barbara Deavers on 40268, Terri Eagal on 40615
   or Lydia Hoffman on 40615.

![Signature of Terri Eagal]

Terri Eagal
Information Review Team

Distribution:
Original - Jim Archibald
cc - Len Kaplan

CL BY 2039256
DECL OADR
DRV FM SEC 13-87

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

## 28 Security File Review Log

Lists of security files received by External Activities Branch personnel in connection with external activities, requests, and cover and documentation matters

TEMPORARY. Destroy when 6 months old.

## 29 Security Duty Office Reporting Files.

Security Duty Office events reports. Duplicate copies of reports prepared by Security Duty Officers concerning individuals who contact the Agency. (Published in the Federal Register, CIA-51, Notification of Systems of Records, Privacy Act of 1974) The Federal Register must be amended if the system is changed or discontinued

TEMPORARY. Destroy 5 years after cutoff. Cut off at end of each calendar year, hold in current files area for 2 years, transfer to AARC for 3 years, then destroy.

## 30 Security Duty Office operational and Instruction Files

a. Copies of survey reports, guard post instructions, and duty officer rosters.

b. Record copies of requests for telephone backstops

TEMPORARY. Destroy when superseded obsolete, or no longer needed.

TEMPORARY. Destroy 3 years after cutoff. Cut off when backstop arrangement is terminated, hold in current files area for 3 years, then destroy.

## 31 Security Support Files.

Record copies of correspondence and reports on operational activities in connection with Office or security projects.

TEMPORARY. Destroy 3 years after cutoff. Cut off at termination of project, hold in current files area for 1 year, transfer to AARC for 2 years, then destroy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

| FILES IDENTIFICATION | VOLUME | DISPOSITION INSTRUCTIONS |
| -------------------- | ------ | ------------------------ |
SPECIAL PROJECT MATERIAL

Record copies of reports pertaining to the SRPOINTER Project. (Discontinued). |  | Temporary. Hold in current file area until litigation concluded then destroy.

![image of a table]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Security Support Files for HT LINGUAL / SR POINTER Files

David G. Ellis
Mail Intercept Program
McAuley, Peter F. SFN 156003
McAuley, Peter F.
99358 PROJECT CHAPERON
OS-PROJECT POINTER
PROJECT SETTER SFN 159144
PROJECT SETTER
SRINDIAN SFN 507356
PROJECT SRINDIAN
SR POINTER/REDSKIN
SR POINTER
PROJECT SR POINTER
PROJECT SR POINTER Cuban Watch List
SR POINTER/HT LINGUAL Material Duplicated from CI Staff.
Report JAN 29 75
Draft Memorandum on Background of SR POINTER Prepared 23DEC74
OS Personnel Directly and Indirectly Involved with SR POINTER
WESTPOINTER SFN 583870
PROJECT WESTPOINTER
SSD Mail Cover
U.S. Post Office Liaison
File with no name related to Mail
SR POINTER INDEX
VOL 1 SFN 93466 SR POINTER GENERAL
VOL 2 SFN 93466 SR POINTER GENERAL
VOL 3 Record of BANJOES Received
VOL 4 PROJECT HT LINGUAL Clearance #90079 29NOV56-29NOV63
VOL 5 SR POINTER General Admin and Policy April 63
VOL 6 Original SR POINTER Documents
VOL 7 Documents Reviewed by George Clark OGC
VOL 8 SR POINTER SFN 119144 Informant BANJO
VOL 9 PROJECT SR POINTER Admin 11JUN52-5FEB58 #77826
VOL 10 HT LINGUAL Statistics SFN 119144
VOL 11 SR POINTER GENERAL SFN 93466
VOL 12 PROJECT Outline and Cronology #77826
VOL 13 Record of BANJOES Received (VOL 6)
VOL 14 SR POINTER Statistics JAN68-MAR70
VOL 15 SR POINTER
VOL 16 SR POINTER GENERAL File Admin and Policy 18JAN62-29MAR63
VOL 17 SR POINTER 13MAR70 #90079
VOL 18 SR POINTER GENERAL File Admin and Ploicy 27JUL54-19DEC61
VOL 19 PROJECT HT LINGUAL #90079 1FEB56-2SEP58 Memos to CI Staff
VOL 20 PROJECT HT LINGUAL #90079 9SEP58-15AUG60 Memos to CI Staff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Security Support Files for HT LINGUAL / SR POINTER Files

VOL 21 PROJECT HT LINGUAL #90079 26AUG60-6JUN62 Memos to CI Staff

VOL 22 PROJECT HT LINGUAL #90079 25JUN62-25MAR64 Memos to CI Staff

VOL 23 PROJECT SR POINTER Informant BANJO SFN 119144 Special BANJO File 2JUL53-27DEC57.

VOL 24 PROJECT SR POINTER Informant BANJO SFN 119144 Special. BANJO File 8JAN58-22DEC58

VOL 25 PROJECT SR POINTER Informant BANJO SFN 119144 Special BANJO File 7JAN59-22DEC60

VOL 26 PROJECT SR POINTER Informant BANJO SFN 119144 Special BANJO File 3JAN61-27DEC61

VOL 27 PROJECT SR POINTER Informant BANJO SFN 119144 Special BANJO File 23JAN63-2MAR64

VOL 28 PROJECT HT LINGUAL SFN 119144 BANJO 25MAR64-23DEC64

VOL 29 PROJECT HT LINGUAL SFN 119144 BANJO 4JAN66-29MAR67

VOL 30 PROJECT HT LINGUAL SFN 119144 BANJO 30MAR67

VOL 31 FANFOLD Coding System #90079

VOL 32 Watch List JAN66

VOL 33 #90079 DC Survey

VOL 34 #94866 Radio Moscow

VOL 35 SFN 77826 PROJECT SR POINTER Post Office Department, Relations With

VOL 36 PROJECT DAYLIGHT SFN 243550

VOL 37 Review of HT LINGUAL Project Outline 10AUG59

VOL 38 POINTER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# SR POINTER Information

HT LINGUAL- A DO project. Opening U.S. citizen's mail going to other countries (mostly Soviet Union) & mail incoming from other countries (1950's). Most mail was opened in NY. Actual opening & monitoring of mail assigned to OS with info turned over to the DO.

SR POINTER- OS name for HT LINGUAL

WESTPOINTER- Opening mail in San Fransico (also known as MK SOURDOUGH). Targeted the Chinese.

PROJECT INDIAN- Targeted mail to/from Pakistan.

BANJO- Actual letters (copies) intercepted.

PROJECT SETTER- Mail opened in New Orleans, targeting South America.

Project was exposed in Rockefellar Commission report.
Project names release with JFK info.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL

06 December 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: Phil Boycan
Services Team Leader

FROM: William Marshall
Services Team

SUBJECT: Transfer of POINTER and related files

REFERENCE: Memorandum, dated 23 November 1993 from Leonard Kaplan (C/IRT) to Jim Archibald (OGC)

Memorandum, dated 23 November 1993, from Jim Archibald (OGC) to Leonard Kaplan (C/IRT)

1. On 30 November 1993, Investigations and Services Branch (I&SB) received a copy of an Office of General Counsel (OGC) memorandum, dated 23 November 1993, wherein Jim Archibald advised that it would be prudent for I&SB to transfer the below list of files to the Information Review Team (IRT).

2. In accordance with this memorandum, I&SB (3S04) (Stafford) transferred the below list of files, on 06 December 1993, to Leonard Kaplan (C/IRT) via Barbara Deavers (G20 Stafford)

3. Therefore, as of 06 December 1993, I&SB considers itself absolved of the responsibility as custodian of the files. Conversely, as of 06 December, IRT assumes the responsibility as custodian of the files.

FILES TRANSFERRED FROM OS/I&SB TO OS/IRT:

1. HT LINGUAL (BANJO) ..................... 0119144
2. WESTPOINTER ............................. 0583870
3. SR POINTER ............................. No case number visible
4. DAVID G. ELLIS FILE ................... No case number visible
5. PROJECT INDIAN ......................... No case number visible
   (Continued on next page)

WARNING NOTICE
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
OR METHODS INVOLVED

CL BY 0701140
DECL OADR
DERV FRM COV 1-82

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CONFIDENTIAL

(Continued)

6. HT LINGUAL ....................................................................................................................................0090079
7. SR POINTER/OS PERSONNEL ............................................................................No case number visible
8. HT LINGUAL ....................................................................................................................................0090079
9. PROJECT HT LINGUAL .....................................................................................................................0090079
10. HT LINGUAL ...................................................................................................................................0090079
11. SR POINTER ....................................................................................................................................0077826
12. SR POINTER ....................................................................................................................................0093466
13. SR POINTER (BANJO) ....................................................................................................................0119144
14. SR POINTER (BANJO) ....................................................................................................................0119144
15. WATCH LIST .....................................................................................................................No case number visible
16. HT LINGUAL ....................................................................................................................................0119144
17. DC SURVEY ......................................................................................................................................0090079
18. PROJECT DAYLIGHT .........................................................................................................................0243550
19. SR POINTER (CUBAN WATCHLIST) .............................................................No case number visible
20. HT LINGUAL (BANJO) ....................................................................................................................0119144
21. HT LINGUAL ............................................................................................................No case number visible
22. SR POINTER (BANJO) ....................................................................................................................0119144
23. RADIO AMATEURS IN USSR .........................................................................................No case number visible
24. FANFOLD CODING SYSTEM...........................................................................................................0090079
25. SR POINTER (MAPS) ....................................................................................................No case number visible
26. RADIO MOSCOW ...............................................................................................................................0094866
27. PROJECT CHAPERON ....................................................................................................................0099358
28. SR POINTER ............................................................................................................No case number visible
29. MAIL INTERCEPT PROGRAM...............................................................................No case number visible
30. SR POINTER ....................................................................................................................................0090079
31. PROJECT OUTLINE CHRONO/SR POINTER ...............................................................................0077826
32. PETER MEAULEY .............................................................................................................................0156003
33. US POST OFFICE LIAISON .........................................................................................No case number visible
34. SSD MAIL COVER .........................................................................................................No case number visible
35. PROJECT SETTER .............................................................................................................................0159144
36. SR POINTER/REDSKIN ...............................................................................................No case number visible
37. SR POINTER ............................................................................................................No case number visible
38. OS PROJECT POINTER ...............................................................................................No case number visible
39. RECORD OF BANJOES ...................................................................................................No case number visible
40. SR POINTER/HT LINGUAL ..........................................................................................No case number visible
41. SR POINTER ............................................................................................................No case number visible
42. HT LINGUAL ............................................................................................................No case number visible
43. SR POINTER ....................................................................................................................................0090079
44. ORIGINAL SR POINTER ...............................................................................................No case number visible
45. SR POINTER/BANJO ....................................................................................................................0119144
46. SR POINTER/BANJO ....................................................................................................................0119144
47. SR POINTER/BANJO ....................................................................................................................0119144
48. HT LINGUAL ....................................................................................................................................0119144
49. SR POINTER ............................................................................................................No case number visible

CONFIDENTIAL

(Continued)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

13-00000

CONFIDENTIAL

50. PROJECT HT LINGUAL ...................................................................................................................................................0090079
51. PROJECT SR POINTER .........................................................................................................................................0077826
52. SR POINTER .............................................................................................................................................................0093466
53. SR POINTER .............................................................................................................................................................0093466
54. SR POINTER ......................................................................................................................No case number visible
55. BANJO ....................................................................................................................................No case number visible
56. CLAUDETTE BOUFFARD ..............................................................................................No case number visible
57. CLARE LENK..........................................................................................................................No case number visible
58. STOLEN AGENCY CREDENTIAL...............................................................................No case number visible
59. SR POINTER ...................................................................................................................................................0090079

![signature of William Marshall]

William Marshall (C)
OS/I&SB

![signature of Barbara Deavers]

Barbara Deavers (C)
OS/IRT

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
REMOVAL OF SRPOINTER FILES FROM 3S04 STAFFORD TO G20 STAFFORD

FROM:
Leonard M. Kaplan
C/IRT
G20 Stafford

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|     | DATE | EXTENSION | NO.       |
| --- | ---- | --------- | --------- |
|     |      | (40285)   | DATE      |
|     |      |           | 23 Nov 93 |
|     |      |           |           |

|                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           | RECEIVED                            | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        | OS/Legal Advisor                    | 11-24     | 11-27              | J                                                                                                       |
| Lw - I have been informed that the SRPOINTER files are a subgroup of the HTLINGUAL files. I recently recommended to OS that it coordinate with the DO's IMOs and the Agency's FOIA office to determine the ultimate disposition of these files. In the interim, I agree that it would be prudent to allow your office to retain these files. Please call me if you'd like to discuss this matter further. |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 2.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 10.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Please call when signed. Thank you. |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |                                     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL

23 November 1993

MEMORANDUM FOR: James Archibald, OS Legal Advisor
6N20 Stafford Building

FROM: Leonard M. Kaplan
Chief, Information Review Team
Office of Security

SUBJECT: Removal of SRPOINTER Files from 3S04
Stafford (I&SB) to G20 Stafford (IRT)

1. Per a telephonic conversation with Will Marshall of
   the OS/Investigations and Services Branch (I&SB), this memo
   will formally request a transfer/relocation of the noted
   SRPOINTER files to OS/Information Review Team (IRT).

2. I&SB is currently holding the SRPOINTER files as
   Mr. John Daley, formerly an I&SB Security Officer, served as
   the OS referent, as well as for his historical perspectives
   of the files. Mr. Daley has since retired and it has been
   informally agreed that IRT will serve as the focal point
   holder of the files.

3. A formal transfer will serve to alleviate I&SB's
   role as an "intermediary" in the occasional to frequent use
   of the SRPOINTER files for IRT's formal responses to Freedom
   of Information and Privacy Act requests. Additionally, as
   IRT serves as the focal point for other public and Agency
   requests, it is necessary to reference these files.

4. Your concurrence is required per C/I&SB
   instructions for a formal move of the SRPOINTER files from
   3S04 Stafford to G20 Stafford.

![signature of Leonard M. Kaplan]
Leonard M. Kaplan

* Sue note on routes

Concurrence:

![signature of James Archibald]
James Archibald

WARNING NOTICE
INTELLIGENCE SOURCES
OR METHODS INVOLVED

CONFIDENTIAL

CL BY 2129112
DECL OADR
DERV FRM COV 1-82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional)
Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

FROM
J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group/CSI
(2E20 IPB

TO (Officer designation, room, and building)

1. John Pereira, C/HRG
   (2E20 IPB/

2. 
3. Janet A. Ecklund
   C/IMB, OPS
   (1S12 Stafford

4. 
5. J. Barry Harrelson
   CSI/HRG
   2E20 IPB

6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
Extension NO. CSI 97-210

31825 DATE 9 May 1997

DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED OFFICIAL'S INITIALS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

9may97 JP

FORM 610 (EF) USE
1-92 EDITIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

CSI 97-210
9 May 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

VIA: Chief, Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

REFERENCE: A. Memo for C/IMB, dtd 27 Feb. 97,
Same Subject
B. Memo for DA/DO IROS (CSI 97-062),
dtd 31 Jan 97

The following actions need to be taken to complete the
Agency's response to the JFK Board's Request for Additional
Information and Records No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination
Files):

a. Response to Request: CIA has to provide an official
response that will become a part of the public record. The
response should be a releasable version of your memorandum of
27 February 1997; according to the classification markings, most
of the text is unclassified. I recommend that you send me an
annotated copy indicating what can be released. I will prepare
the response and coordinate it with you. Also please review the
attachments to the memorandum for possible release. The JFK
Board may consider documentation of the destruction of
potentially relevant files as assassination records. HRG will
handle any additional coordination (OGC, DO, etc.) required.

b. Transfer of Oswald's OS File(#0351164): The original
Office of Security subject file on Oswald currently held by the
Office of Personnel Security should be transferred to the
Historical Review Group. The file will be incorporated into the
Agency's JFK Assassination Collection and reviewed for release
under the JFK Act of 1992. Most documents in this file will
probably be duplicates of documents in the HSCA sequestered
material held by HRG, however, under the JFK law all "Oswald"
files are considered assassination records. The ARRB staff has
asked for access to the file when practical.

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

*CT Defectors File (#0341008):* The ARRB staff has requested access to the parts of the Defector File that contain the Oswald documents, items a-f, listed in your 27 February memorandum. (We were unable to locate documents "e" and "f" in the HSCA sequestered collection.) Assassination- and Oswald-related documents in this file will most likely be declared assassination records. HRG will handle any third Agency coordination required.

Please let me know when it will be possible to give the ARRB staff access to the files. The access is considered for back- ground purposes only, and any notes taken will be reviewed by your staff and HRG. If a file is considered sensitive, access can be restricted to one ARRB staff member and monitored by your staff. The review can take place either at your office or in HRG. If you any questions, please give me a call, secure 31825.

![Signature of J. Barry Harrelson]

J. Barry Harrelson

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

13-00000

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

SUBJECT: Request No. CIA-16 from JFK Board

DCI/eSI/HRG/JBHarrelson:bas/x31806 (9 May 97)
g:hrg/req#160S.doc

Distribution:

Original -
1 - Addressee
1 - C/IP&CRD
1 - Linda Cipriani, OGC
1 - C/HRG
1 - B. Harrelson
1 - HRG File


3

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

5 June 1997

SUBJECT: Review of OS Records on LHO and Defectors

FROM: Gary M. Breneman, IC

1. Over the course of three half days, 29 May, 2 and 4 June, 1997 ARRB Staff member Michelle Combs reviewed the Office of Security files on Lee Harvey Oswald and a multi-volume file collection entitled "Defectors." These were made available by Ms. Janet Ecklund in OS offices in Stafford Building.

2. At the request of OS, the undersigned was present during the review. Mrs. Combs took notes of items of interest and put yellow stickies on a number of documents. She advised Ms. Ecklund that she (Mrs. Combs) would write a memorandum on what she had done and pass it to Mr. Gunn. Further, she advised that Mr. Gunn might want review the files personally.

3. Ms. Ecklund stated she would keep these files segregated within her office for quick retrieval if we wanted to see them again.

![signature]

Gary Breneman


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

27 October 1997

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:
Janet A. Ecklund
Chief, Information Management Branch
Office of Personnel Security

SUBJECT:
OSWALD, LEE HARVEY
ΑΙΝ: 0351164

1.  The Office of Personnel Security was tasked on 31 January 1997 by the Historical Review Group/Center for the Study of Intelligence(HRG/CSI), via the Directorate of Administration/Information Review Office, with researching pre-assassination files on Lee Harvey Oswald. The tasking was generated by the John F. Kennedy Board's desire to review and declassify relevant material. The results of this review were forwarded to the HRG/CSI on 21 February 1997.

2. During the Information Management Branch's (IMB)research in response to the above tasking it was noted that Volume V of the Oswald files was not on the shelf where Volumes I-IV and VI-VII were located. A search of the entire area where the volumes had been maintained failed to locate Volume V. The IMB Files Section was subsequently charged with conducting an all out search for the missing volume. The search failed to find Volume V.

3. In July 1997, the Oswald files were reviewed page by page prior to being turned over to HRG/CSI and another attempt was made to locate Volume V or to locate persons who might know what happened to it. Volume V was not located nor were any persons located who were knowledgeable of its status.

4. During the complete review of the Oswald files no time gap was apparent and no one was located who could recall ever seeing Volume V. This would suggest that either Volume V had been consolidated into other volumes or that Volume V never existed, but that a numbering error resulted in what should have been Volume V being labeled as Volume VI. The use of Roman numerals on the cover of the volumes might have caused this error to occur.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Central Intelligence Agency

![Central Intelligence Agency Seal]

Washington, D.C. 20505

24 December 1997

Dr. T. Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director
Assassination Records Review Board
600 E. Street, N.W. (2nd Floor)
Washington, D.C. 20530

Dear Dr. Gunn:

Re: Request for Additional Information and Records
No. CIA-16 (Oswald Pre-Assassination Files) and
No. CIA-IR-24 (Defector File)

This is a partial response to the ARRB's referent request for pre-assassination files this Agency may have had on Lee Harvey Oswald. It is believed the following comments and two enclosed documents fully respond to the Office of Security questions. The DO response is pending.

1. At Tab A is a 22 December 1997 memorandum containing information from the Agency's Office of Personnel Security which provides details about the files it had on Oswald prior to the assassination plus when and why they were created. These include the Office of Security file on Oswald, a general file on Americans who had defected to another country and information about HTLINGUAL files.

2. Also enclosed at Tab B is a 27 October 1977 memorandum from the Office of Personal Security which explains the numbering of that Office's file on Oswald. In particular, it explains why the "missing" volume V may never have existed.

3. An ARRB staff member has reviewed the Oswald Security file and the file on American defectors.

4. The Oswald Office of Personnel Security file and those pages of the defector file deemed relevant by the ARRB staff member have been forwarded to HRG for review and will be processed according to current release guidelines.

If you have any questions about this response, please advise.

Sincerely,

J. Barry Harrelson


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

22 December 1997

1. Pursuant to ARRB "Resquet No. CIA-16, the Office of Personnel Security conducted research for and existing pre- assassination files on Lee Harvey Oswald. The following responses are provided to those questions which pertain to the Office of Personnel Security (OPS). These responses are the best reasonable answers based on available information. Please note OPS was known as the Office of Security prior to 1 October 1994.

Question 1: Please identify, as specifically as possible, each file held by CIA on Oswald at the time of the assassination of President Kennedy.

Response: At the time of the assassination, the Office of Security (OS) held two files which contained information on Lee Harvey Oswald. One file entitled "Defectors File" (#0341008), contained a reference to Lee Harvey Oswald, and the second file was Office of Security subject file on Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164). This information was reflected in the automated security database known as the Management Data Program/Personnel Security (MDP/PS). These files were originally miscellaneous files which were converted to the above numbers circa 1964. A hand search was also conducted of microfiche records which were superseded by the automated system. This hand search produced the same results as the automated search of MDP/PS.

2. Within the ARRB request is specific mention of an HTLINGUAL file. MDP/PS reflects OS maintained four official files under this project--#0077826 (an administrative file), #0090079, #0093466 (a general file), and #0119144. All of the HTLINGUAL files were destroyed on 8 April 1994 along with numerous soft files. Since this material has been destroyed, OPS cannot definitively state whether these files contained any information on Lee Harvey Oswald. The search of Oswald's name did not produce an index reference to any of these files. Attached is all of the available information regarding the destruction of the HTLINGUAL files. This information was retrieved from the Information Management Branch/Records Control Section and from a review of general office administrative files.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

Question 2: For other than the 201-289248 file on Oswald, please explain when each Oswald file was opened, the purpose for the opening of the file, and the documents that were in the file at the time of the assassination.

Response: As noted above, all HTLINGUAL files have been destroyed. Since OS files are usually set up in chronological sequence, a search of files with numbers in close proximity to those recorded for HTLINGUAL was undertaken. This search revealed the approximate opening dates for the four official HTLINGUAL files as:

#0077826 Opened approximately July 1952
#0090079 Opened approximately February 1953
#0093466 Opened approximately July 1953
#0119144 Opened approximately May 1955

3. HTLINGUAL was a Directorate of Operations project involving the opening incoming and outgoing mail destined to and from the Soviet Union, China, Pakistan, and South America. In the Office of Security this project was known as SRPOINTER with subprojects identified as WESTPOINTER, INDIAN, BANJO, and SETTER. The Office of Security actually conducted the opening and monitoring of mail with the acquired information being referred to the Directorate of Operations.

4. The Defectors File (#0341008) was established circa 1950 for the purpose of recording information on US citizens defecting to other countries and information regarding foreign nationals considering defection to the United States. This file contained information was from press clippings, Directorate of Operations reporting, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of State, and the various armed services. The pre-assassination documents located in this file relative to Lee Harvey Oswald are:

a. Washington Star press clipping of 26 November 1959 entitled "U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to Marx at 15"

b. Department of State memorandum dated 25 October 1960 with attached list of American "defectors" from May 1959 to October 1960

c. Memorandum for Chief/Security Research Staff dated 31 October 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject: American Defectors


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

d. Memorandum for Deputy Director of Security dated
1 November 1960 from M. D. Stevens, subject:
American Defectors

e. Handwritten chart of defectors dated 26 August
1961

f. Defector outline prepared in October 1961 listing
known defectors to the USSR, Red China, Cuba, and
United Arab Republic.

5. The index reference to the Defectors File
   identifies a list dated 13 September 1966 which was known as
   the Defector Machine Listing. This listing was a computer
   printout of defectors and provided limited biographic data
   on each name. This listing was maintained separately from
   the actual Defectors File; notations within the Defectors
   File show the Defector Machine Listing as permanently
   charged to the Security Analysis Group of the Office of
   Security. Efforts to locate this listing or determine its
   disposition have been unsuccessful.

6. Information regarding the purpose of the Defectors
   File was gleaned from a quick review of selected holdings.
   An employee of this Office was, recalls the Defector Machine
   Listing as being approximately one and one-half inches thick
   and in two parts. One part consisted of an alphabetical
   index of defector names with assigned numbers. The second
   part listed the assigned numbers in numerical order and
   contained the limited biographic data on each name.

7. The subject file pertaining to Lee Harvey Oswald
   (#0351164) was established circa 1960. It appears this file
   was created as a separate repository for the numerous press
   clippings and reports received from other government
   agencies on the defection of Lee Harvey Oswald to the USSR
   and his activities following his return to the United
   States. The first volume of this file appears to have been
   preserved as the pre-assassination file, and the documents
   contained in this file are as follows:

a. Department of State telegram #1304 from Moscow
dated 31 October 1959

b. The Washington Post press clipping dated
1 November 1959 entitled "Ex-Marine Asks Soviet
Citizenship"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

c. Department of State Dispatch #234 from Moscow dated 2 November 1959

d. Department of State telegram #1448 from Tokyo dated 9 November 1959

e. Department of State telegram #1358 from Moscow dated 9 November 1959

f. The Washington Post press clipping dated 16 November 1959 entitled "Rebuffed"

g. Evening Star press clipping dated 26 November 1959 entitled "U.S. Defector to Reds Turned to Marx at 15"

h. Report Summary prepared by Soviet Russia Division forwarded to Office of Security in March 1960

i. Department of State Instruction A-273 dated 13 April 1961

j. Department of State Dispatch from Moscow dated May 1961 with enclosure of Oswald letter

k. Federal Bureau of Investigation report dated 3 July 1961 from Dallas, Texas

l. Note to CI/SI dated 28 September 1961

m. Form 745 "Indices Search Request" dated 12 October 1961

n. Department of State Dispatch #317 from Moscow dated 12 October 1961 with enclosure

o. Form G-135a Immigration and Naturalization Service name check form to Central Intelligence Agency dated 5 December 1961

p. Navy Department message to Moscow dated 3 March 1962

q. Department of the Navy memorandum to the Federal Bureau of Investigation dated 26 April 1962 with enclosure

r. The Washington Post press clipping dated 9 June 1962 entitled "Third American in 2 Months

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

Leaves Soviet 'Home'"

s. Federal Bureau of Investigation transmittal of report from Dallas, Texas, dated 30 August 1962.

8. In addition to those documents listed above, the following documents were located in a subsequent volume of the Oswald file and also appear to predate the assassination of President Kennedy.

t. Undated summary of file information on Lee Harvey Oswald

u. Incoming cable #83858 from Mexico City dated 20 July 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

v. Incoming cable #01325 from Mexico City dated 17 August 1963 (no mention of Oswald)

w. Incoming cable #36017 from Mexico City dated 9 October 1963

x. Outgoing cable #74830 to Mexico City dated 10 October 1963

y. Incoming cable #47041 from Mexico City dated 24 October 1963 (no mention of Oswald).

**Question 4:** To the extent that Counterintelligence and the Office of Security maintained pre-assassination files on Oswald, please explain why those offices maintained files on Oswald prior to the assassination. In answering this question, please make appropriate references to the Clandestine Services Handbook (CSHB) and to any other materials (including organizational charts) that would help explain the jurisdictional and organization reasons for which CI and OS would have maintained such files.

**Response:** It is believed that OS holdings on Lee Harvey Oswald began in 1959 with his travel to Russia during which he renounced his US citizenship. Oswald was in contact with the American Embassy in Moscow, and the Department of State prepared reports on these contacts. Most likely because of counterintelligence concerns, the Central Intelligence Agency was included in the distribution of these reports. In the beginning this material was probably retained in the Defectors File. As the number of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

documents increased, a separate file was created to be the repository of information on the alleged American defector. There is a notation in the Defectors File that a separate file exists on Oswald.

9. Both the Defectors File (#0341008) and the file of Lee Harvey Oswald (#0351164) were handled by Marguerite D. Stevens of the OS/Security Research Staff during the pre- assassination time frame. Of the documents listed above, a majority of them contain a notation or the initials of Marguerite D. Stevens, leading one to believe she was the officer responsible for the collection, analysis, and filing of this information.

10. The Security Research Staff (SRS) was the component responsible for collecting, developing, and evaluating information of a counterintelligence nature to detect and/or prevent penetration of the Agency's organization, employees, and activities by foreign or domestic organizations or individuals. SRS conducted research in connection with employee loyalty cases and maintained records identifying personalities, environments, and personal traits of individuals who had been of counterintelligence interest over the years. SRS maintained liaison with various government agencies in connection with counterintelligence activities and coordinated the counterintelligence effort throughout OS. Using organizational charts of this time period, SRS reported directly to the office of the Director of Security.

11. A representataive of the Office of Personnel Security /Management Staff was queried regarding the mission and functions of SRS during the pre-assassination time period. He made inquiries relating to the above request, and the OPS/Information Management Officer retrieved retired policy records for review. The information on the mission and function of SRS was retrieved from the archived Office of Security administrative and historical files as well as a review of the security file on Marguerite D. Stevens.

6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

13-00000

![CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS RELEASE IN FULL 2000 stamp]

16 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Ms. Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-16, Oswald Pre-Assassination Files

1.  This is further to my letter of 24 December 1997 in response to referent request.

2.  That letter, was a partial response which provided the Office of Personnel Security's information. The Directorate of Operations' (DO) response was still pending. The DO response was provided on 2 September 1998 and it is attached.

3.  Please note that both responses are contained in the Agency's Compliance Declaration dated 2 September 1998 at Attachment V(2).

4.  This completes the Agency's action on CIA-16. If you have any questions about this matter, please advise.

Sincerely,

![Signature of J. Barry Harrelson]

J. Barry Harrelson

Encl. A/S


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# DO Response to Board Request CIA - 16
Oswald Pre-Assassination Files

The Directorate of Operations reviewed the DO records to determine if there were any additional files containing pre-assassination records relating to Oswald. Research identified a document in the Oswald 201 which appeared to be a file inventory. The document identified CI Staff as the file custodian. CIC has confirmed that all CI Staff holdings were incorporated into the 201.

Prior to establishing a 201, any documents received would have been placed in an operational interest file. We found no reference to the existence of an operational file. If such a file had existed, however, it might not have been registered in the central index. It was standard procedures that upon opening a 201, the documents from an interest file would be transferred to the 201.

Given that Oswald was a subject of the HTLINGUAL operation, it is reasonable to believe that there was a file on him. We destroyed all of the HTLINGUAL files under court order, and no record was made of what files existed. We did not review all of the DO record system to destroy all copies of material which may have been derived from HTLINGUAL material. We know, for instance, that there are HTLINGUAL items related to Oswald in the HSCA sequestered collection

In sum, the 201 on Oswald contains all the information we are aware of that we had prior to the assassination.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)