# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

DATE 1-15

TO:

X CI/Operatizal Approval and Support Division

FROM: Margaret Loss
2/4
2702 Qtrs E
2564

Security Support Division/Office of Security

SUBJECT: (True name) Santiago ALVArez Fernandez

PROJECT: JYATE

CRYPTONYM, PSEUD, INFO, AKA OR ALIASES

CI/CA FILE NO.

RI 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

Y PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
TYPE ACTION RECULESTED

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL
PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL
COVERT NAME CHECK

COVERT SECURITY SPECIAL FOR LIAISON WITH U.S. OFFICIALS
SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

SPECI C AREA OF USE Cuba

FULL DETAILS OF USE

PM Trainees

INVESTIGATIVE COVER

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM?
YES NO

IS OR WILL SUBJECT BE AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?
YES NO

INDICATE SPECIAL LIMITATIONS OF COVERAGE DESIRED IN THE SECURITY OFFICE INVESTIGATION

None

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

FOS AND GREEN LIST STATUS

PRO 1. OR EQUIVALENT, IS (2) COPIES ATTACHED
PRO II WILL BE FORWARDED

PRO 11. OR EQUIVALENT, IS (1) COPY ATTACHED
GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO: JJ-25

FIELD TRACES

NO RECORD
NO INFORMATION OF VALUE

DEROGATORY INFORMATION ATTACHED, WITH EVALUATION
NOT INITIATED (Explanation)

X WILL BE FORWARDED

RI TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

X NO RECORD
RECORD
NON-DEROGATORY

DIVISION TRACES (Derogatory Information and Evaluation Attached)

X NO RECORD
RECORD
NON-DEROGATORY
DEROGATORY

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER
EXTENSION SIGNATURE OF BRANCH CHIEF

for Joseph Ficcolo
2564 For: Daniel Sterling

FORM 11-30 772 EDITIONs.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)