# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

18 January 1952

Washington R. S. Travis 2268

New York SENSITIVE
Secret-Security Information

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA_ 8622
THIS IS SENSITIVE

THIS IS NEW CASE 9145. REFERENCE MADE TO KEXX LEA'S CONVERSATION YESTERDAY WITH TRAVES AND ROSE REGARDING THE OPC REQUEST FOR CONTACT WITH THE RESEARCH INSTITURE OF AMERICA. AS ROSE INDICATED, HE WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON WEDNESDAY, 23 JANUARY, AND WOULD LIKE TO HAVE YOU MAKE APRANGEMENTS TO MEET WITH THE APPROPRIATE PERSON OR PERSONS IN RIA TO DISCUSS A COVER CASE. (ROSE) HAS ADVISED THAT BOTH LEO CHERNE AND CARL HOVGARD HAVE BEEN GIVEN COVERT OPERATIONAL CLEARANCES. FOLLOWING IS THE BACKGROUND OF THIS CASE. THERE IS A MAN BY THE NAME OF WILLIAM J. ACON, PRESENTLY WORKING FOR ECA IN WASHINGTON WHO IS GOING TO RESIGN FROM ECA AND COME WITH CIA, AND WILL GO OVERSEAS FOR OPC. HE IS GOING TO LEAVE ECA SOMETIME AROUND THE END OF THIS MONTH, AND MUST HAVE SOME EXPLANATION AS TO THE REASON FOR HIS RESIGNATION. THEREFORE, OPC WISHES TO WRXKIN LOCATE SOME FIRM WHICH WILL BE WILLING TO BACKSTOP XXX ACON'S RESIGNATION, IN THE FORM OF SUPPOSEDLY HIRING ACON. ACON HAS BEEN A RESEARCH ANALYST ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL PROBLEMS IN ITALY, AND IT IS FELT THAT. PERHAPS, EMPLOYMENT WITH RIA WOULD BE A LOGICAL INEXXXXXXXXXXREASON TO GIVE FOR RESIONING FROM ECA. THE RIA COVER WILL NOT BE UTILIZED FOR ACON'S COVER OVERSEAS. ABOUT ALL THAT WOULD BE AMUIRED OF RIA NOUED BE TO ACKNOWLEDGE,

SENSITIVE STORET SECURITY INFORMATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRED

SENSITIVE

VSECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS FROM LEA SECURITY INFORMATION - CITE NY 0392

CASE 9145.

THIS IS SENSITIVE. RE W-3622 RPT W-8622. LEO CHERNE RPT LED CHERNE
IS THE MAN MAN WE HAVE SET UP AN APPOINTMENT FOR NEXT WEDNESDAY AT 3:30
RPT 3:30 PM SO ROSE RPR ROSE BETTER BE HERE IN THIS OFFICE EY 2:30 RPT
2:36 DM

PLEASE CONFIRM.

GR-62

![handwritten note: love advised the will be they at 2:30 on 23 an.]

07434


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

21 January 1952

Washington
R. S. Travis 2268

New York
Secret-Security Information-Sensitive

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) WA 8651

THIS IS SENSITIVE. RE CASE 9145 AND UR NY 0392. ROSE ADVISES THAT HE WILL
BE IN YOUR OFFICE BY 2:30 PM on WEDNESDAY, 23 JANUARY. THANKS VERY MUCH.

SECRET-SECURITY INFORMATION-SENSITIVE

07435


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# WILLIAM JACOB ACER

Background Information:

Born April 6, 1921 in Amsterdam, Netherlands
Single
American citizen

Education:

Amsterdam High School - Amsterdam, Netherlands
St. Louis University, St. Louis, Missouri - ASTP 6/43-2/44
Georgetown Foreign Service School - 2 yrs. 6/47-8/48
University of Chicago - M.A. in International Economic
Relations in 1951

Languages: German, Dutch, French and Italian

M.A. Thesis: "Post-war Economic Recovery in the Netherlands and
The Marshall Plan". (received honors)

Employment Record:

June 1950 - present International Economist, GS-7, in European Program Division of ICA. Mainly concerned with Italian and Trieste economic affairs. Analysed economic and financial position of Italy in light of ECA aid program, and handled administration of the aid program itself. Also prepared two, three and four year forecasts designed to show expected economic trends and developments in Italy. These were included in the ECA congressional presentations.

Oct. 47 - June 48 Research analyst in Historical Division of Department of the Army. Engaged in selection of and formulation of reports on German documents which shed light on the West Europe campaign.

Oct. 46 - Feb. 47 Archivist in Office of Military Government for Germany, Department of the Army. Served as chief of the Documents Library, collected reports, dispatches, cables, etc and developed an index system.

Jan. 45 - Aug 45 Assistant to Food and Agriculture Officer with Military Gov't Section of Hq. Twelfth Army Group. Duties consisted mainly of availability and requirements studies connected with food needs of the German population

Address:
3000 Porter St., NW
Washington, D.C.
Woodley 9738


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET
SENSITIVE

SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR TRAVIS, FROM LEA -- SECURITY INFORMATION CITE NY 0470

THIS IS SENSITIVE.
CASE 9145.

THE MEETING TODAY WITH CHERNE RPT CHERNE WAS COMPLETELY SUCCESSFUL.
WHEN HE GETS BACK TO WASHINGTON, ROSE IS GOING TO SUBMIT TO US THROUGH
YOU ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON (ACON RPT ACON WHICH WE WILL
TURN OVER TO CHERNE.

WE WOULD SUGGEST THAT WHEN ACON MAKES HIS PITCH AT ECA RPT ICA AND TELLS
THEN THAT HE IS BEING OFFERED A JOB WITH THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF
AMERICA THAT HE STRESS THE NAME OF LEO CHERNE WHO ACTUALLY WILL BE THE
ONLY PERSON WHO WILL BE ABLE TO BACK UP THIS STORY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

SECURITY INFORMATION

25 January 1952

MEMORANDUM FOR: THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Backstopping of Cover by the Research Institute of America

1. Pursuant to conversations between Mr. *Rose* and Mr. *Engels* of CIA/ope and Mr. Travis of 00/Contacts, an appointment was made for Mr. *Rose* to see Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secretary of the Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, to explore the willingness of Mr. Cherne to backstop the cover story of a *proposed agent in training*. The appointment was made, and kept, for Wednesday morning, 23 January 1952 in New York City in the presence of Mr. Clark of the New York branch of the Contacts Division.

2. The proposed story of the *agent* in question, who had bein employed on the economic research side of ECA specializing in *Italy*, was that he wished to resign from ECA and take up an offer to be extended to him in civilian employment. Since the Research Institute of America ssamed to fit in naturally with his background and activities in ECA, Mr. Cherne was asked:

a. If he would backstop the *agent's* story that he was quitting ECA to take employment with the Pesearch Institute of America during his three months period of *training with CIA*, and

b. Whether he would in fact *employ the agent* and send him as a representative of the Institute to *Italy* at the conclusion of his period of training.

Mr. Cherne replied that unfortunately the latter was impossible inasmuch as his company did not send personnel overseas in any capacity. As regards the immediate backstopping of the *agent's* story, however, Mr. Cherne said that he would be happy to oblige for a period of training only, to wit, three months, after which other cover would have to be sought. Mr. Cherne requested that he be furnished at an early date with more complete information as to what was to be expected of him in his role as a backstop and further stated that he would like to meet the *agent* personally as soon as could be arranged. This has been communicated to Mr. *Engels*, the case officer, who will oblige at the earliest opportunity.

3. This case


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET
SECURITY INFORMATION

3. This case may be referred to for further discussion and/or information as Case Number C/101.

EDWARD A. ROSE
OD/OP

OD/OP/BAR/rs
25 Jan 52

Distribution:
OD/OP (Rose): orig
Contacts:
Division/DO : 1
WI-4 (Engels): 1
OD/OP : 2
SD/RE : 2

-2-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET
Security Information

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Edward A. Rose

SUBJECT: Cover Story for Research Institute of America

7 February 1952

1. Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic Relations from the University of Chicago, has been working for ECA. He has been hired by the Research Institute of America to do economic research and writing for their weekly newsletter on economic subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon knowgs Dutch, German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted that he would like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has not yet found a way.

2. His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo Cherne will be informed when the story is to be used. By that time, Mr. Acon will have called on Mr. Cherne.

DANIEL J. WHEALTON
WE-L

DJW/atp


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

## ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SECRET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer should be used in the "TO" column. Under each comment a line Security Information should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to respond with the number in the "TO" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Routing and Record Sheet should be returned to Registry.

| FROM: WE-4 X3863 |     |
| ---------------- | --- |
| NO. 7 Feb 52     |     |

| TO                  | ROOM NO | DATE REC'D | DATE FWD'D | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                                                          |
| ------------------- | ------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. OD/OP Mr. Rose   | 1704 H  | Feb 7 1952 | Feb 8 1952 | DR                 | Bob Would you please see that the New York Office gets this & pass on to LC as verbally arranges. |
| 2. OO/CO Mr Travis. |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 3.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 4.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 5.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 6.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 7.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 8.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 9.                  |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 10.                 |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 11.                 |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 12.                 |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 13.                 |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 14.                 |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |
| 15. ✓               |         |            |            |                    |                                                                                                   |

C/107

Case 9145

FORM NO. 51-10 FEB 1950

SECRET

![U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

Chief, New York Office
Chief, Contact Division
Case 9145

SENSITIVE
13 February 1952

1. When Rose of OPC was in New York on 23 January 1952 to discuss cover with Mr. Leo Cherne, Executive Secy. of the Research Institute of America, Mr. Cherne requested additional information as to what was to be expected of him in his role as a backstop to the cover being established for the OPC man. The following information has been forwarded by OPC, and is quoted below. Mr. Rose requests that you pass this information on to Mr. Cherne.

a. "Mr. Acon, who has his MA in International Economic Relations from the University of Chicago, has been working for ECA. He has been hired by the Research Institute of America to do economic research and writing for their weekly newsletter on economic subjects having to do with Western Europe. (Mr. Acon knows Dutch, German, French and Italian.) It could be admitted that he would like eventually to do such writing abroad, but has not yet found a way."

b. "His hiring may be delayed for some time. Mr. Leo Cherne will be informed when the story is to be used. By that time, Mr. Acon will have called on Mr. Cherne."

2. We are closing this case. Should further action be required, we will reopen.

RSTravio/1mp

E. M. ASHCRAFT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# SECRET

SECRET OO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS) FROM LEA SECURITY

INFORMATION -- CITE NY 2315

CASE 9145.

1. WILL YOU TELL (ROSE RPT ROSE THAT THE APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE RPT LEO CHERNE HAS BEEN SET UP FOR WEDNESDAY, 4 RPT 4 JUNE AT 11:30 RPT 11.30 A.M.

2. PLEASE CONFIRM

GR-58


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

14-00000

3 June 1952
Washington

R. S. Travis 2268

New York
Secret-Security Information

TO LEA FROM ASHCRAFT BY SPECIAL SERVICES (TRAVIS)W/1301
CASE 9145 AND UR NY 2315. ROSE ADVISES THAT HE WILL KEEP APPOINTMENT WITH CHERNE
AS SET-UP IN YOUR XXXXXXXE MESSAGE.

SECRET

07448


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET
Security Information

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO

Appointment with William A. BARRON, John E. TOULMIN
and Leo CHERNE

References CS-1512 and CS-1337

19 May 1952

1.  This will confirm Mr. Rose's verbal request that the Contact Division/00 ask its Boston field office to arrange appointments for Mr. (Edward Rose) of Cover Division, PLANS/OSO, to see Mr. William A. Barron, Chairman of the Board, Gillette Safety Razor Company, and Mr. John E. Toulmin, Senior Vice President of the First National Bank of Boston, at their convenience on Wednesday May 21, 1952. The purpose of the visit is to explore the willingness of these gentlemen to act as ostensible donors of funds to support a current operation.

2.  This will also confirm Mr. Rose's request that the New York City field office of the Contact Division/00 arrange an appointment for Mr. Rose to see lar. Leo Cherne, President of the Research Institute of America at Ar. Cherne's convenience on Thursday May 22, 1952. Mr. Cherne, who has for some time been backstopping the activities of an agent in this country, has apparently expressed willingness to provide cover for this agent abroad. The purpose of the interview is to discuss more fully Mr. Cherne's proposal. Cover Division would be happy to have an 00 field office representative present to insure continuity.

3.  As a result of the above requests, Mr. Barron found to his regret that he was unable to cooperate with the Agency at the present time. Mr. Toulmin, on the other hand, was most cooperative. Mr. Cherne, unfortunately, was out of town. The New York field office has been asked to try to arrange a meeting with Mr. Cherne, as outlined above, for Wednesday afternoon, June 4, 1952.

# SECRET
Security Information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECRET
Security Information

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Chief, Contact Division, 00

FROM: Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO

DATE: 6 June 1952

SUBJECT: Field Trip to Interview Leo CHERNE

Reference: CS-1357 CS-1337 (Rose)

1. On Wednesday, June 4, 1952, an interview was arranged by the Contact Division, 00, for Mr. Rose of the Cover Division, PLANS/OSO with Mr. Leo Cherne, President of the Research Institute of America. The meeting was held at 11:30 a.m. in Mr. Charne's office at 292 Madison Avenue, New York City, and Mr. Rose was accompanied by Mr. Clark of the New York field office of Contact Division 00.

2. Mr. Cherne, who is currently backstopping an operation within the United States, had expressed the wish to be provided with some form of letter indicating that the Agency was requesting his cooperation, and the purpose of the interview was to inform Mr. Cherne that this was against Agency policy.

3. This information was accordingly conveyed by Mr. Clark and Mr. Rose to Mr. Cherne who accepted it with good grace. In reply to a question by Mr. Rose he indicated that this refusal would in no way mitigate his desire to be of service to the Agency.

SECRET
Security Information


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

## Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Files

DATE: 4 MARCH 1954

FROM: Coleman

SUBJECT: Case 9145

On 3 March Ormond requested that a meeting be set up for him with Leo Cherne, President of the Research Institute of America. Ormond said that he would not need more than a half an hour. Called Connor who had Bob McCann set up meeting with Cherne for Monday (8th March) at 3:00 p.m. Ormond will go to the New York Office at 2:15 on Monday to meet McCann and take off for the meeting. This meeting was requested as a Cat III, and McCann will have to gow out after introduction. Ormond is happy, New York is happy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

COLTOLAR
SUPPORT
2268
4 MARCH 1954
NEW YORK

SECRET

ROUTINE

TO LEA FOR CONNOR FROM ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT (COLEMAN)
CASE X88 9145. RK CONNOR/COLEMAN TELECONS OF 3 MARCH, ORMOND WILL BE IN
YOUR OFFICE AT 2:15, MONDAY THE 8TH OF MARCH PRIOR TO THE CAT III APPOINTMENT
YOU HAVE ARRANGED FOR HIM WIT: LEO CHERNE. THANKS.

SHORES

07446


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# Office Memorandum

TO : Chief, Contact Division, 00

FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Division

SUBJECT: Requested meeting with Leo Cherne 00/C Case 91145

---

1. On 3 March 1954, Mr. Coleman of your office was requested by lir. Ormond to arrange a Category III meeting for him with Leo Cherne of Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, Hew York City. The identity of an agent and the area in which he will be stationed will be discussed. On the same date Er. Coleman informed that the appointment had been made for 3:00 PM on 8 March 1954. Crmond was requested to arrive at the New York 00/C office between 2:00 - 2:15 PM to meet Bob ccann who will accompany him to Cherne's office and make the introduction.

2. Cover Division appreciates the assistance rendered by your office. Mr. Ormond will follow the above instructions.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

17 March 195406
CS-1337 (Ormond)

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Contact Division, 00

FROM : Chief, FI/Plans/Cover Divisionguk

SUBJECT : 00/C case 9145

1. On 8 March 1954, pursuant to arrangements that had been made by your office, Bob McCann of your New York office introduced Mr. Ormond to Mr. Leo Cherne of the Research Institute of America, 292 Madison Avenue, New York City. As a Category III interview had been requested, Mr. McCann departed soon after the introduction was made.

2. We would like to inform you that Mr. Cherne was cordial and agreed to cooperate with the Agency as requested.

3. On 15 March 1954, Mr. Ormond again met with Mr. Cherne in his office at New York City to discuss further the operational matter. You were previously informed of Ormond appointment on 15 March 1954 and while in New York on that day, he visited your New York office.

4. Your assistance in this matter is indeed appreciated by Cover Division.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

14-00000

COLEMAN
SUP. CRT
2268
23 March 1954
NEW YORK

SECRET

FOR CONNOR
TO LEA/FROM ASHCRAFT BY SUPPORT(COLEMAN) 2499
CASE 9145. FOR YOUR INFORMATION, OLIVER ORMOND WILL BE IN NEW YORK ON 23 MARCH FOR A 10:30 A.M. MEETING WITH KEK LEO CHERNE. HE WILL COME TO THE NEW YORK OFFICE ABOUT 1 P.M. FOR THE PURPOSE OF DELIVERING A CHECK TO AMOS BELDEN INRE CASE 8417.

ROUTINE

SECRET
SECRET

07449


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

R. S. Travis 2268

CONNOR KROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 8244

CASE 9145 REOPENED. RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU TRY TO SEP SET UP
APPOINTMENT FOR HIM WITH LEO CHERNE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CASE FOR
SOMET THE NEXT WEEK. PURPOSE OF THE MEETING WILL BE TO SEE CHERNE ABOUT
XXX KXTEND ING COVER ARRANGEMENT FOR ADDITIONAL PERICE OF TIME. REQUEST
THAT THIS APPOINTMENT BE COORDINATED WITH ONE REQUESTED FOR MILLARD UNDER
CASE 18945 (COLEMAN). THANKS VERY MUCH.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

WA CITE NYOR 1191

SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145

RAY NULLARD X RAY MILLARD HAS APPOINTMENT WITH LEO CHERNE X LEO CHERNE ON THURSDAYS 26 X 26 JANUARY AT 2 PM X 2 PM. CHERNE'S ADDRESS IS 292 X MADISON AVE.

APPOINTMENT UNDER CASE 18945 X 18945 IS FOR SAME DAY AT 3 PM X 3 PM.

SUGGEST RAY MILLARD DROP BY THIS OFFICE AT 1:30 PM ON 26 X 26 JANUARY X AT 1:30 PM ON 26 JANUARY, BEFORE HIS MEETING WITH CHERNE.

PLEASE CONFIRM.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

20 January 54

Washington
R. S. Travis 2268

New York

SECRET

ECCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS)MA 8456

CASES 9145 AND 18945. REUR ID HYOR 1191. MILLARD WILL MAKE APPOINTMENTS AS
SET UP BY YOU. HE WILL CHECK INDO THE OFFICE BY 1:00 PM ON THE 26TH. THANKS
VERY MUCH.

SECRET

07452


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

WA CITE NYOR 1351

SECRET

SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145

MILLARD HAD SUCCESSFUL MEETING WITH LEO CHERNE WHO AGREED TO PROPOSITION

MILLARD WILL DRAFT A LETTER FOR CHERNE WHICH WILL BE FORWARDED TO

07453


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET

CS-1337 (Millard) 9145-PST
2 February 1956

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00

SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

1. On 26 January 1956, Mr. Millard of this office, together with Er. Robert McCann, New York 00/C Office, interviewed Mr. Leo Cherne of the above captioned organization.

2. The results of this meeting were extremely satisfactory for our purposes and we are deeply appreciative of Er. McCann's assistance in this matter.

3. Your cooperation is appreciated.

![signature]
John R. Southard
Chief, CCF/DC

07454


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Dear ______:

I am happy to know that you are agreeable to assisting on a continuing basis as set out in your recent commmication. However, this letter is being prepared to formalize our under standing and to make it a matter of record.

Effective April 1, 1956, you are appointed a Research Consultant for a period of two years with an annual salary of $5,000.00.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Robert McCann

08-1337 (Millord)
2 February 1956

NUGGET

SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

1. Attached is a suggested draft of the proposed Letter of Under- standing between Hr. Cherne and his special employee.

2. In addition to the two paragraphs set out in the draft, it is suggested that Hr. Cherne also include either: (a) a brief general state- sant of the duties and responsibilities or (b) a statement indicating that the employee will continue the agreed-upon functions.

3. Another paragraph might be inserted with reference to the employee's past satisfactory performance.

4. For Mr. Cherne's information, the employee has had another arti- cle published in the *New Leader* which was issued on 23 January 1956, under the title "Poujadiste".

5. He appreciate your and kr. Cherne's courtesy and cooperation in this matter.

Raymond Willard
Central Cover Branch
Non-Official Cover

Attachment
As stated above

RFM: dmw

cc: CS-1337

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

CS-1337 (Millard)
2. February 1956. 9145-RST

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Contact Division, 00

SUBJECT : Research Institute of America

This is confirm the verbal concurrence given to Mr. Millard on 2 February 1956 by Mr. Travis for the hand-carry of the original of the attached memorandum to Mr. Robert McCann, New York 00/C Office.

![signature of John G. Southard]
for John G. Southard
Chief, OCB/NC

Attachment
As stated above

07457


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

15 Feb 56

Wachington

New Y°rk

R. S. Travis 2268

SECRET

MCCANH FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS)W 4709

CASE 9145. MULLAHI WONDERS IF YOU HAVE HAD ANY SUCCESS IN OBTAIN CHERNE'S
SIGNATURE OF THE LETTER FORWARDED TO YOU IN DRAFT FORM ON 2 FEB? WOULD
APPRECIATE YOUR COMMENTS. THANKS.

SECRET

07458


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SEC

UA CITE NYOR 1685

SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM MCCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145.

SECRET

CHERNE HAS WRITTEN AND DISPATCHED THE LETTER.

WE HAVE COPY OF THE LETTER HERE, WHICH APPROXIMATES PROPOSED DRAFT

BY MILLARD.

FEB 16 3 54 PM 56

17 Feb 56
Millard advised
M

07459


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

14-00000

Washington

New York

MCCANN FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 0350
CASE 9145. HER HILLARE ADVISES THAT COPY OF LETTER WRITTEN BY CHERNE WAS
SENT TO HEADQUARTERS ABOUT TWO WEEKS AGO. LETTER WAS NOT RECEIVED. YOUR NYOR
1685 INDICATED THAT YOU HAD COPY, BUT NO RECORD HERR OF ΕΠΟΧΑΣΚΙΛΙΕΣ
A COPY EVER COMING TO HEADQUARTERS. WILL YOU PLEASE FORWARD COPY. THANKS VERY
MUCH.

SECRET

![scribbled number] 07460


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Chief, Contact Division
Attn: Support (Travis)
FROM : Chief, New York Office
DATE: 5 March 1956

SUBJECT: Case 9145
WA 0350

1. We mistakenly advised Mr. Raymond Millard, last week, that we had forwarded to your division a copy of the letter which Leo Cherne had dispatched to Mr. As you pointed out in your WA 0350 we merely advised you that we had a copy and did not forward it to Headquarters.

2. Attached you will find a replica of the letter written by Mr. Cherne.

Charles A. Lea

R.W.McCann:er
Attachment

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

R. T. Amina
Russell Tuttle

CS-1337. Core 9745

- Me Carm

Cherne is aware that our boy is writing for a magazine named *(Sam Reports of New Kielder)*. However the editor of this magazine is going to the area where our man is located, but is not writing. She may know editor and going to tell Editor that he works.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

for Leo and other.

In the event that the Editor knows Leo, and showed see Leo and mention the agent and the writing relationship, Chung is not to identify the agent with CIA.

Bay will send in report of his conversation with Editor so that if necessary, Leo Chirne can be advised of it


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

14 Sept X8 4X56

Washington R. S. Travis 2268

New York Secret

NOCANH FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 8598

CASE 9145. RAY MILLARD HAS REQUESTED THAT YOU EHK PASS SOME INFORMATION ON TO
LEO CHERNE. XXXXXX YOU KNOW, AS DOES CHERNE, THAT XXXX OUR MAN WHO IS DOING
WORK FOR LEO, HAS ALSO BEEN WRITING FOR *THE NEW LEADER*, AS WELL AS EXHER DOING
OTHER JOBS. IT IS UNDERSTOOD THAT THE EDITOR OF THE "NEN LEADER", S. *LEVITAS*, IS GOING TO TAKE A TRIP TO THE AREA WHERE OUR BOY IS LOCATED, AND WILL SEE HIM. WHEN OUR BOY SEES *LEVITAS*, HE IS GOING TO TELL HIM THAT HE DOES SOME WORK FOR LEO CHERNE, AND OTHERS, BESIDES SUBMITTING ARTICLES FOR *THE NEW LEADER*. HE WILL NOT, OF COURSE, IDENTIFY HIMSELF WITH THE AGENCY. (*LEVITAS*) IS UNWITTING OF ANY AGENCY RELATIONSHIP, AND IT IS DESIRED THAT IT HE KEPT THIS WAY. ON THE OFF CHANCE THAT CHERNE MAY KNOW *LEVITAS*, AND ON THE FURTHER CHANCE THAT UPON HIS RETURN TO THE US, (*LEVITAS*) MAY SEE CHERNE AND TELL HIM THAT HE RAN INTO CUR BOY WHO INDICATED THAT HE WAS DOING SOME WORK FOR CHERNE, WILL YOU TELL CHERNE WHAT (*LEVITAS*) IS NOT WITTING OF THE FACT THAT THE MIX BOY IS CONNECTED WITH THE AGENCY AND THAT HE SHOULD NOT INDICATE TO (*LEVITAS*) XHXT OR ASSUME THAT *LENITAS* KNOWS, THE AGENCY RELATIONSHIP. THANKS VERY MUCH.

SECRET

07462


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SEC

WA CITE NYOR 4854

SUPPORT FROM MOCANN

CASE 9145 X 9145

1. ON 19 X 19 SEPTEMBER WE ADVISED LEO CHERNE X LEO CHERNE OF THE
   CONTENTS OF YOUR WA-3598 X 8598. CHERNE, AS IT TURNED OUT, KNOS
   S. LEVITAS X S. LEVITAS AND CONSIDERS HIM TO BE A VERY HIGH-TYPE,
   PATRIOTIC INDIVIDUAL.

2. WE EXPLAINED TO CHERNE THAT LEVITAS WOULD NO X NO DOUBT SEE OUR
   MAN ABROAD AND CAUTIONED CHERNE THAT HE SHOULD NOT X NOT ASSUME THAT
   LEVITAS KEW OF ANY RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE MAN INVOLVED AND THE
   AGENCY. CHERNE REPLIED THAT HE WOULD IN NO X NO WAY INDICATE THAT
   SUCH A RELATIONSHIP EXISTED.

3. RAY MILLARD X RAY MILLARD WAS INFORMED DURING HIS VISIT TO
   NEW YORK THAT CHERNE HAD BEEN TO ADVISED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# PRIORITY

SECRET

SENSITIVE

PP ESE

DE ESG 81

P 1313412

GR180

BT

TVAVN

46473/23

46473/23

PRIORITY

SEC

A CITE NYOR 6845

THIS IS SENSITIVE

CASE 9145 X 9145

FEB 15 8 56 AM 57

THIS IS IN REFERENCE TO A REQUEST MILLARD X MILLARD OF COVER DIV. MADE TO LEA X LEA IN KRITING CONCERNING THE FEAR OF OUR AGENT IN PARIS THAT *HIS COVER MAY HAVE BEEN BLOWN BY HIS SISTER*, MEETING MR. *JOSEPH ARDLEIGH*, OF THE RESEARCH INSTITUTE AND TELLING HIM THAT HER *BROTHER* WAS IN PARIS WORKING FOR SAID INSTITUTE.

CHERNE X CHERNE WAS APPRAISED OF THE SITUATION ON 14 X 14 FEBRUARY AND HE REQUESTS THE FOLLOWING:

07464


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

1.  PLEASE ADVISE HIM OF THE NAME OF THE SISTER WHO MET MR. ARDLEIGH. (WE ASSUME FROM THE GIST OF HIS QUESTION THAT HE WANTS TO BE ABSOLUTELY SURE WHICH AGENT WE ARE TALKING ABOUT)

2.  HE REQUESTS THAT JOSEPH ARDLEIGH BE MADE WITTING OF THE OPERATION FOR OBVIOUS REASONS.

WE WILL SEND BIO X BIO DATA ON ARDLEIGH AS SOON AS CHERNE MAKES IT AVAILABLE TO US.

PLEASE SEND US THE NAME OF THE SISTER SO THAT WE CAN MAKE IT AVAILABLE TO CHERNE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SEC

WA CITE NYOR 6870

SUPPORT FROM MAJOR

REF. NYOR 6845 X 6845

# SECRET

THE FOLLOWING IS THE BIO. X BIO INFORMATION ON JOSEPH D. ARDLEIGH)X JOSEPH D. ARDLEICH, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF AMERICA, INC., (589 X 539 FIFTH AVE., NEW YORK, NEW YORK.

HE WAS BORN 24 MAY 1914 X 4 MAY 1914 AT SCRANTON, PENN.

HIS PRESENT HOME ADDRESS IS ALDEN ROAD, GREENWICH, CONN.

HE WAS PREVIOUSLY CONNECTED WITH THE LAW FIRM OF MILBANK, TWEED, HOPE AND WEBB OF NEW YORK, THE HOOVER COMPANY OF NORTH CANTON, OHIO, HAD HIS OWN BUSINESS WHICH WAS KNOWN AS SALES METHODS INC., ROCKEFELLER PLAZA, NEW YORK.

HE JOINED THE_RESEARCH INST. 1939 X 1939.

PLEASE ASSIGN CASE NUMBER TO THESE EFFORTS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

Washington

20 Feb 57

New York 14330

R. S. Travis 2268

Secret

FROM SUPPORT(TRAVIS)WA

CASE 9145. REUR NYOR 6845. MILLARD ADVISES THAT THE NAME OF THE SISTER WHO MET
MR. ARDLEIGH IS MRS. HELEN B. BLODGETT(MRS. EMMONS). BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON ARDLEIGH
RECEIVED AND MILLARD IS INITIATING SECURITY CLEARANCE ON HIM. WE WILL ADVISE YOU
AS SOON AS IT IS RECEIVED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

7 August 1997

Washington

R. S. Travis 2268

New York

Secret

CONMAR FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS)WA 21187

RE CIASED DASE 9145. MILLARD OF COVER HAS REQUESTED THAT WE TRY TO DETERMINE WHEN LEO CHERNE WILL RETURN TO NYC. IT APPEARS THAT OUR BOY, WORD FOR WHOM CHERNE IS PROVIDING COVER, IS BACK IN THE STATES ON LEAVE, AND WHEN HE TRIES TO CONTACT CHERNE, FOUND THAT HE WAS OUT OF TOWN. WILL YOU PLEASE SEE IF YOU CAN FIND OUT DESIRED INFORMATION. THANKS

SECRET

07467


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SEC

WA CITE NYOR 9236

SECRET

SUPPORT (TRAVIS) FROM DAME

CLOSED CASE 9145 X 9145

REUR WA 21187 X 21187

1. MISS KREUGER X KREUGER, LEO CHERNE'S X LEO CHERNE'S SECRETARY,
   ADVISES HE IS EXPECTED BACK IN NYC 19 X 19 AUGUST, EXACT HOUR UNKNOWN
   X UNKNOWN.

2. ANYTHING FURTHER?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

19 August 1957
Washington
R. S. Travis 2268

New York
Secret

DAME FROM SUPPORT (TRAVIS) WA 21593

CASE 9145(CLOSED). REUR NYOR 9236 AND LEO CHERNE. AT THE PRESENT TIME THERE IS NOTHING FURTHER TO BE DONE. THANKS FOR YOUR ANSWER.

SECRET

![signature]

074469


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# MEMORANDUM TO FILE

| INDIVIDUAL | DATE   | ACTION                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ---------- | ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Fred Engel | 26 Dec | Engel come up at Rose's suggestions to duduas a need for cover. Engel has a man now working faded for Engel who is coming with OPC at the end of January. Engel decites an interrim back-stop which the Engel man bon give. |

Engel dures as a reason for his leaving Engel dures some organization whibhich will be used as the new employer of the ECA man, and which will be willing to acknowledge, if necessary, that they have hired the man. OPC is working on a permanent cover to send the man o Station. Stally on a research program, but must await clearance on this outfit. Alp Ratly is believed to be the hatorial Planning association, Engel is submitting biographic data so that the organization who will backstop the man will have full knowledge of the move. Rae has assigned case # C101A this was.

Rae | 10 Jan | Rae brought biographic on Engel man. Rae initiated he may want to go to Ky to contact a forny to ask questions as to while ills of the NY fired office could make preliminary inquing. The wants to see Research dust. Amet.

| 11 Feb | Close care

Holly | 17 Mar | Holly requests that we make an appointment for dears with Cheshe for 180119 March. Engel will prowed Chime with C/A repruuntatys

Clarke (NY) | 17 mar | Clarke advies that Acon should call duct to Cherne as the latter is expecting the call to come through that way. Acon con was Clarke name if necessary. Stally. At she doesn't add she will callback. Clark will ball, Clark advies

![Document End]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# Office Memorandum

SECRET
Security Inforr

TO: Chief, Contact Division, 00

FROM: Chief, Cover Division, PLANS/OSO

SUBJECT: Appointment with William A. BARRON,
and Leo CHERNE

Reference: CS-1512 and CS-1357

Cal 4195

1. This will confirm Mr. Rose's verbal request that Contact Division/00 ask its Boston field office to arrange appointments for Mr. Edward Rose of Cover Division, PLANE to see Mr. William A. Barron, Chairman of the Board, Gillette (Safety Razor Company, and Mr. John S. Toulmin, Senior Vice President of the First National Bank of Boston, at their convenience on Wednesday May 21, 1952. The purpose of the visit is to explore the willingness of these gentlemen to act as estensible donors of funds to support a current operation.

2. This will also confirm Mr. Rose's request that the New York City field office of the Contact Division/00 arrange an appointment for Mr. Rose to see Mr. Leo Cherne, President of the Research Institute of America at Mr. Cherne's convenience on Thursday May 22, 1952. Mr. Cherne, who has for some time been backstopping the activities of an agent in this country, has apparently expressed willingness to provide cover for this agent abroad. The purpose of the interview is to discuss more fully Mr. Cherne's proposal. Cover Division would be happy to have an 00 field office representative present to insure continuity.

3. As a result of the above requests, Mr. Barron found to his regret that he was unable to cooperate with the Agency at the present time. Mr. Toulmin on the other hand, was most cooperative. Mr. Cherne, unfortunately, was out of town. The New York field office has been asked to try to arrange a meeting with Mr. Cherne, as outlined above, for Wednesday afternoon, June 4, 1952.

SECRET
Security Information.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)