# SECRET

14-00000
104-10113-10254 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

5 APR 1968

MAGRANESH FOR: Chief, VED/AB

VIA: Office of Security/Alica Affairs Staff

SUBJECT: Request for Alies Decuncatation for AKOTIN-117

1. In accordance with preliminary ocaversations 03 between ur Robert Fanbrini), VI/4/4, and Hice (Tina Japiks) and bros Patrick Phelan, TUD/AD, it is requested that an crdinary Nicaraguan) passport be issued in the name of Juan Hidalgo ELIZONDO Romano for AKG7IN-117's use to travel froca the United States to Argentina and return.. In addition, it is requested that an Arrival-Departure Leserd. (ILES Fora 1-04) be prepared for Sabject.

2. The requested passport steald contain a (forged) United States multiplo entry tourist visa and a desbot choving entry into the United States via licai, Florida, in carly April 1003. Inclusion of the (forged) United Otatco vion in Cubject's passport will not afford hin any Pivileges be does not already lejälly hold in his true iCentity. The passport should be valid through the ond of 1003.

3. The following informatica should be included ca the Fera I-94 to be prepared for Subject:

a. Fermansat address in Managua, Nicaragua: (Calle 18 da Septicatre Co. 403.)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

b. Anticipated address in the United States:
Airport Intornaticaal Estel, Miami Inter-
maticial Airport, Miami, Florida.

4. The above requirements are being coordinated with
   the Chios, Alion Affairs Staff, Office of Security, who
   vill be kept informed every time the passport is being used
   for travel from or to the United States prior to exit and
   reentry to the United States. The information vill include
   glight number, date and place of departure and reentry.
   The Alien Affairs Staff has been requested to provide
   Foru-619 in alies.

William V. Eres
Chiof
Festern Esaisphere Division

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)