# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

/12/

SECRET

FRP: . . . .

STAFF

CONF: C/LA-8 INFO: UDPD-D, VR, FILE, DORECORD, C/CI-4, C/EPS/EG-2, C/EUR-6, C/LCG/ID, C/PCS, (25/P)

80 3951664

PAGE 001
TOT: 0420522 MAR 80

DIRECTOR 627921.

SECRET
STAFF 0420522 DIRECTOR 627924
TO: PRIORITY MADRID.

WNINTEL BY AKULE AMLASH

REF: MADRID 48679 3918232

1. DEPT OF STATE HAS SENT MESSAGE TO CONSULATE AUTHORIZING THE GRANTING OF VISAS TO AMLASH FAMILY, BUT HAS APPARENTLY ATTACHED A PROVISO SO LONG AS CONSULAR OFFICER SATISFIED THAT THEY ARE BONA FIDE VISITORS AND NOT IMMIGRANTS.

2. OFFICER WHO DEBRIEFED AMLASH-1 IN MADRID ON 11 JANUARY IS EXPERIENCED AND SAVVY PROFESSIONAL. ME HAS BEEN INTERVIENING REFUGEES FOR THE PAST SEVERAL MONTHS AND HAS CONSISTENTLY PROVIDED ACCURATE ASSESSMENTS OF REFUGEE INTENTIONS AND MOTIVATIOUNS. AMLASH-1 TOLD THE DEBRIEFER THAT HE ONLY WANTED TO VISIT THE US AND THAT HE WANTS AND INTENDS TO SETTLE IN SPAIN, WHERE HE CAN MORE READILY SET UP A MEDICAL PRACTICE AND BE LESS NEWSWORTHY THAN WOULD BE THE CASE IN THE UNITED STATES. THE DEBRIEFER BELIEVES AMLASH-1 MEANT WHAT HE SAID.

2. FILE: 201-252234. RVN 4 MAR 00, DRV D9C.1. ALL SECRET.>
   ORIG: ADC/LA/DPS (PALMER X-9011): AUTH: ADC/LA/OPS (PALMER); COORD: PCS/LGG/ID (CANTRELL); C/E/IB/S(STOVER); REL: C/E/IB (BERGER); CL BY 037029.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

RECORD COPY

![table indicating approval status with handwritten notes, dates, and signatures.]

04MAR80
201-252234


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)