# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 98-1333007
SENSIND: RYBAT
PAGE: 1

CONF: CE/EXO INFO: CE/LGL, CE/R/IO, CE/ST, CE/STR, CE/STSWE,
CE/WUMB, CEDORECORD, DC/CE, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD, RYBAT, FILE, CE/R, CE/W,
(3/P)

98 1333007 ASP
PAGE 001
TOT: 012139Z MAY 98
DIRECTOR 795035

TO: PRIORITY MOSCOW INFO MINSK. 012139Z DIRECTOR 795035

FROM: LIMITED DISSEM CE/EXO INFO CE/R, CE/R/IO, DC/CE, CE/LGL,
CE/WUMB

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT

*SUBJECT: <ASSASSINATIONS>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD AND DEPT OF STATE
REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE IN APPROACHING FSB/SVR FOR OSWALD FILE

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: WOULD APPRECIATE STATION THOUGHTS ON
   *BELOW PROPOSAL TO APPROACH FSB/SVR SEEKING ACCESS TO FILE ON<LEE>
   *<HARVEY ((OSWALD)).>

2. THE<ASSASSINATIONS>RECORDS REVIEW BOARD (ARRB),
   ESTABLISHED BY PUBLIC LAW 102-526 IN OCTOBER 1992, HAS THE
   PRESIDENTIAL MANDATE TO IDENTIFY, SECURE, AND MAKE AVAILABLE ALL
   *RECORDS RELATED TO THE<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY.> THE
   IDENTIFIED (DECLASSIFIED) RECORDS WILL BE HOUSED IN THE NATIONAL
   ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION. CE HAS HAD SOME DEALINGS
   WITH THE ARRB, BEGINNING WITH THEIR REQUEST FOR ACCESS TO THE
   RESTRICTED MOSCOW STATION HISTORY FROM THE 1960'S. THE ARRB'S
   PREMISE IS TO DECLASSIFY AS MUCH INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE, EVEN
   *DOCUMENTS ONLY MOST TANGENTIALLY RELATED TO THE<KENNEDY>
   *<ASSASSINATION. >

3. PL 102-526 SPECIFICALLY STATES:
   "THE SECRETARY OF STATE SHOULD CONTACT THE GOVERNMENT OF THE
   REPUBLIC OF RUSSIA AND SEEK THE DISCLOSURE OF ALL RECORDS OF THE
   GOVERNMENT OF THE FORMER SOVIET UNION, INCLUDING THE RECORDS OF
   THE KOMITET GOSUDARSTVANNOY BEZOPASNOSTI (KGB) AND THE GLAYNOYE
   *RAZVEDYVATELNOYE UPRAVIENIYE (GRU), RELEVANT TO THE<ASSASSINATION>
   *OF<PRESIDENT KENNEDY,>AND CONTACT ANY OTHER FOREIGN GOVERNMENT
   *THAT MAY HOLD INFORMATION RELEVANT TO THE<ASSASSINATION>OF
   *<PRESIDENT KENNEDY>AND SEEK DISCLOSURE OF SUCH INFORMATION."

4. THE ARRB HAS REQUESTED STATE AND AGENCY HELP IN GETTING
   ACCESS TO THE KGB RECORDS ON OSWALD. THE RECORDS, ORIGINALLY HELD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 13-00000

MHFNO:98-1333007

SENSIND: RYBAT

PAGE: 2

*IN MINSK, WERE FLOWN TO MOSCOW IN '63 FOLLOWING THE<ASSASSINATION,>
THEN RETURNED TO MINSK WHERE THEY ARE STORED TODAY. WHEN
APPROACHED BY STATE AND THE ARRB, THE BELARUSIANS HAVE SHOWN
SAMPLES FROM THE FILE BUT HAVE NOT AGREED TO ARRANGEMENTS TO COPY.
THE ARRB CHARTER EXPIRES ON 30 SEPT 98 AND THE OLD KGB FILE(S) IS
A MAJOR OUTSTANDING REQUIREMENT. STATE HAS MANAGED TO GET THE
SUBJECT AS THE NUMBER ONE TALKING POINT ON VICE PRES GORE'S RECENT
CONFERENCE DISCUSSIONS. THE BELARUSIAN RESPONSE WAS TO TRY IT
AGAIN LOCALLY IN MINSK, OFFERING INCREASED "COPY FEES".

5. THE ARRB CHAIRMAN HAS COME BACK TO STATE TO ASK THEY
   CONTACT THE AGENCY WITH THE FOLLOWING_REQUEST: CAN THE STATION
   CHECK WITH THE FSB/SVR TO DETERMINE WHETHER THE RUSSIANS RETAINED
   *A COPY OF THE<LEE HARVEY OSWALD'S>KGB FILE IN MOSCOW? CAN WE GET
   ACCESS TO THE FILE AND, PRESUMABLY, OBTAIN A COPY FOR THE ARRB?
   WE NOTE THAT THE ARRB WILL PROBABLY PUSH HARD TO_DECLASSIFY THE
   RUSSIAN DOCUMENTS AS WELL. JOBVIOUSLY SUCH A REQUEST COULD HAVE
   SEVERAL IMPLICATIONS WHICH WE MUST CAREFULLY CONSIDER, I.E., THE
   RUSSIANS MIGHT ASK FOR FILES OF THE ROSENBERGS OR OTHER NOTORIOUS/
   PERSONALITIES. THE HOS CONTEXT IS THAT WE ARE GRAPPLING WITH THE
   ARRB ON A VARIETY OF OTHER SERIOUS DECLASSIFICATION/DISCLOSURE
   ISSUES AND WE MIGHT BE ABLE IN A BETTER NEGOTIATING POSITION IF WE
   COULD BE SEEN AS ASSISTING THEIR EFFORTS TO GET THE OSWALD FILE.

6. OBVIOUSLY SUCH AN ACTION HAS TREMENDOUS IMPLICATIONS AND
   WE WELCOME A FULL DIALOGUE_FROM STATION ON THIS MATTER.
   REGARDS...

6. FILE: NONE. CL BY: 714549, CL REASON: 1.5(D), DECL
   ON: X5, DRV FROM: LIA 3-82.
   CABLETYPE: GECO STAFF 4.0.1.>
   RELNO: DORELS0100952954
   ORIG: CE/EXO (CHENGMD, 39263); AUTH: AC/CE/R (BANNERMAN); COORD:
   C/CE/R/IO (ZERRUSEN), C/CE/WUMB (WARD); INFO: CE/LGL (WATSON);
   REL:DE/-CE-(-LEVEN)

END OF MESSAGE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)