# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

23 June 1976

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Security Analysis Group

SUBJECT : Manuel L. DE ARMAS
SF#591 865

1. Reference is made to the attached cable traffic which sets forth the "defection" of the Subject to Cuba circa April 1976. In substance, DE ARMAS apparently gave a press conference in Havana on 21 April 1976 in which he claimed to be an ex-CIA agent who had been recruited by a fnu BLACKENHOUSE (no Office of Security traces) in 1969. DE ARMAS also claimed to have been stationed in New York City in 1971 where he maintained contact with BLACKENHOUSE and Richard TOMLEY (probably identifiable with Peter L. B. TOMLEY, Washington Area Recruiting Office).

2. In the cited press conference, DE ARMAS made many allegations concerning purported CIA operations, such as assassination plots and a plan to rupture relations between Venezuela and Cuba. Details of these allegations are set forth in the attached cable traffic and are not treated in instant memorandum. However, interest in DE ARMAS' allegations concerning alleged CIA operations concerns the identities of individuals that he claimed to have been Agency operatives and assets; details regarding these individuals are covered in the latter portion of instant memorandum.

3. Agency interest in DE ARMAS was originally predicated upon the receipt of a letter written by DE ARMAS on 12 September 1972 in which he related details concerning his anti-CASTRO activities through his membership in a group called ABDALA. The letter also contained a request for employment with the Agency. As a result of DE ARMAS' letter, WH Division requested a Special Inquiry by the Office of Security for the purpose of establishing DE ARMAS' identity, which was completed in October 1972. In May 1973 Office of Personnel opened a file on DE ARMAS and apparently went through the normal routine of shopping his file. Interest in DE ARMAS terminated when TOMLEY sent DE ARMAS a letter advising him that the Agency had nothing currently available. Then on 22 January 1973 DE ARMAS wrote TOMLEY thanking the latter for interest following a telephone call


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DE ARMAS made to TOMLEY in which DE ARMAS wanted to know once and forever if there were any openings for him. DE ARMAS' security file reflected no subsequent activity except for the attached cable traffic following his "defection."

4. Regarding the personalities mentioned by DE ARMAS in his Havana press conference, it appears that several individuals may be identical to former WH Division assets, as shown below. It should be noted that DE ARMAS did not identify any bona fide Agency staff employees or agents nor does it appear that he identified any past or current operations. It seems likely that DE ARMAS was provided a list of known or suspected Agency assets by the DGI as part of Cuba's ongoing anti-CIA, anti-U. S. Government campaign designed to offset adverse criticism to Cuba's military assistance to Angola. Set forth below are those individuals alleged to have been connected with Agency operations by DE ARMAS; results of Office of Security indices searches and file reviews follow each name where a possible identification could be made.

| NAME GIVEN BY DE ARMAS                                                                                     | OS FILE, IF ANY, AND COMMENTS                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Bob DYNES                                                                                                  | No Office of Security traces regarding all variations.                                                                                                                                                |
| (aka: DINUS, DAYNES)                                                                                       |                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Robert Bud MILES (alleged to have been the supplier of explosives used in the murder_of_Rolando MASFERRER) | No Office of Security traces.                                                                                                                                                                         |
| Lazaro ALVAREZ                                                                                             | Possibly identifiable with Lazaro Gustavo ARECES ALVAREZ, SF#753 905, on whom a POA was requested by WH Division (JMATE) in June 1964 for use as a PM/Maritime asset; files canceled in October 1964. |
| Fred DUNCAN                                                                                                | No Office of Security traces; believed to be a DEA officer stationed in Caracas.                                                                                                                      |
| Doug PHILLIPS                                                                                              | No Office of Security traces; believed to be a DEA officer stationed in Caracas.                                                                                                                      |

> [Figure: handwritten notes with an asterisk]
> MASFENNER Died in 1975 when his Por was blown apart by a bomb in Florida.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

## NAME GIVEN BY DE ARMAS

John VALDAVIAN
(aka: BLADABIAN)

A. NASS

Anselmo ALLIEGRO (HIJO)

Justo ALFONSO
(aka: *"El Gallego"*)

Ricardo MORALES NAVARRETE

Armando RUIZ

Antonio de LEON

Mario MEJIA RICARD
(aka: RICART)

## OS FILE, IF ANY, AND COMMENTS

No Office of Security traces regarding all variations.

Probably identifiable with Donald L. NESS, State Department.RSO in Santo Domingo.

No Office of Security traces.

No Office of Security traces.

No Office of Security traces.

Possibly identifiable with Armando VALENZUELA RUIZ, SF#752 358. OA request by WH/3/Columbia for use as a24 PA in Columbia or PRC; not used due to significant derogatory information developed.

Possibly identifiable with Sergio Antonio LOPEZ DE LEON, SF#740 227, who was apparently used by WH/1/Mexico as a LP operator from December 1964 to May 1973 in Mexico.

Probably identifiable with Marcio MEJIA RICART, CR to SF#244 148 (Manuel Moises LAMARCHE SALAS). In June 1960 latter advised FBI that RICART was a Venezuelan active in anti-TRUJILLO activities and had visited Miami in April to buy B-26's and weapons for an attack on the Dominican Republic; also advised that RICART was an instructor at Caracas University, was associated with Director of Economic


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

NAME GIVEN BY DE ARMAS

OS FILE, IF ANY, AND COMMENTS

Luis DESA SOTO

Development in Venezuela and
believed RICART may be a
Communist.

Felix MARTINEZ SUAREZ

No Office of Security traces.

Possibly identifiable with
Felix Antonio MARTINEZ SUAREZ,
SF#242 302, who was Director
of El Mundo when a POA was
granted in April 1961 and up-
dated in July 1973 for his use
by WH/3/V as a Propaganda[^24]
Placement Asset.

Salavador ROMANI

Possibly identifiable with
Salvador Garcia ROMANI-ORUE,
SF#223 776; on whom an OA
was granted in September 1960[^24]
for use by WH/4/Cuba as a PP
Agent in Caracas; files can-
celed in January 1967. On
PRQ listed one Manuel ARTIME,
not further identified, as a
relative/friend/correspondent
in U. S.

5. The possible identification (by either DE ARMAS or the DGI) of those WH Division assets reflected above suggests that their names were either known or suspected as CIA assets and were thrown in with those individuals not identified above in an effort to legitimatize DE ARMAS' claims to have worked for the CIA. It should be noted that of those individuals listed above on whom a security file exists, none appear to have any current association with this Agency and, as far as can be determined, no actual Agency operations were either exposed or threatened.

6. The above is provided for your information; no further action in this case appears necessary.

Att

Michael E. Schneeberger
Security Analysis Group

# SECRET
4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)