# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PRIOR TO FILING TO ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect 2 on back Detach back flap If tize no and hile shoyngre, pot proper, and forward to RID insert proper lile no below and forward document to BID'AN.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requir- ing, preservation

FROM

RID

![RID]

TO ROOM, DATE OFFICERS
NO RECEIVED FORWARDED INITIALS

1. C/lutle 23 APR 5
   1970

2. Borke 9

3. Vasities Br

4. Ennis

5. 
6. 
7. Bunke 8 May Km

8. 
9. 
10. 
11. Mary Park P. See

attached shers.

MICROFILMED
APR 23 1970

DOC. MICRO SER.

12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 
17. RID FI

TRACE ABSTRACT FILE TITLE
REQUEST

INDEX FILE NLIMBER IPR.MARY

3 19.5.12

DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER

14 Apr 70 UNDA 04862

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WH/COG

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

INFO Chief of Station, WH/MIAMI; Chief, Domestic Operations

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM Chief of Base, New York

MICROFILM

SUBJECT TYPIC/AMROSE/DOMOPS Current Analysis of Cuban Ly Mission and DGI Center in New York

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: FYI

1. Transmitted herewith are one copy each for C/WH/COG and COS/WH/ MIAMI of the April 1970 Cuban Official Presence Listing as prepared by the local LNERCO Cuban Squad. The under-signed has added on the 201 numbers, indicated CUIS affiliation, added two names and deleted one. The departure dates for several CMUN personnel also are noted. The listing, thus, is valid as of 10 April.

2. According to LNERGO, only two CMUN working wives are officially carried on LNERGO records. Maria BERMUDEZ Garcia, wife of Jose Raul VIERA Linares (201-328953), and Consuelo HORTA Larrinaga, wife of Pablo DRAKE Capiro (201-815821). BERMUDEZ, because of the impending departure of the VIERAs on 14 April, can be deleted from the listing. Additionally, other CMUN wives work or have worked in the past on a sporadic basis (such as Teresita FERNANDEZ Arango, wife of DGI Center Chief Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201-330002). However, only BERMUDEZ and HORTA of late have been regular local employees.

3. Addressees will note the preponderance of DGI personnel on the CMUN roster. Of the 18 (excluding Rolando PEREZ Alfonso) personnel on board as of 10 April, 12 are DGI. Interestingly enough, 6 non-DGI personnel is a higher number than has been the rule over the past several years; at one point there were only 3 non-DGI personnel, including the Ambassador/Permanent Representative. Of these, 12, two (DRAKE and CADALSO) are code clerks detailed to the DGI Center from the DSE. Two others (REYES Goicochea and SANTIAGO) are the "architect"

Attachment:

As stated - Para 1 - h/w.

Distribution:

2 - Chief, WH/COG, w/att. h/w.

2 - Chief of Station, MIAMI, w/att. h/w.

2 - Chief, DO, w/o att.

CROSS REFERENCE TO

11200-9-52

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UNDA-4862

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE 13 April 1970

HQS FILE NUMBER

14-5-42


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

UNDA-4862

and the mason assigned here temporarily to work on the CMUN secure rooms and security systems (see previous reporting for details). Thus, 8 personnel are left för espionage operating purposes.
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (20)-332665) probably serves now as the Deputy co Center Chief PRENDES. Allowing for the impending departures of Rolando PEREZ Alfonso, Jose Raul VIERA Linares, and Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin, the DGI Center will now consist of:

Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez

Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz

Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez

Ruben Rafael FRANCO Gonzalez

Raul REYES Goicochea

Roberto SANTIAGO Humet

Pablo DRAKE Capiro

Rafael CADALSO. Bandomo

LA COM
PROCESSED

4. As will be noted, the departure of Jorge REYES Vega (in March) and the impending departures of VIERA and PINERO will change the complexion of the DGI Center considerably. If they are not replaced for one reason or another (per other reporting), the DGI Center will have but four experienced and competent Case Officers at its disposal. Of these, PRENDES spends by far the bulk of his time inside the office pursuing his role of supervisor/manager. RODRIGUEZ is a handler: GELABERT and SANTANA are mainly concerned with operational support tasks -- CELABERT is the Center's best counter-surveillant, and SANTANA is the technical "expert" of the Center. PEREIRA is a handler, but his abilities are rather limited in this regard, per Base and LNERGO information and observations. Should the departees not be replaced, the Center may be forced *de facto* into a cutback of operational activity.

5. We shall watch with interest the behavior patterns of the DGI Center in the near future, in light of the above and in light of other recent reporting re the status of the DGI abroad.

Howard G. FIGALAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

Cuban Mission to the United Nations
6 East 67th Street
New York, New York
April 6, 1970

Pet.

ALARCON QUESADA, RICARDO
Position
Residence 347590
Phone
Dependents:

19
Ambassador
1175 York Ave., Apt. 6D, NYC
PL 2-0123
MARGARCIA PEREZ, wife; (Recoded)
MARGARITA ALARCON, daughter;
BIANCA MAZA PEREZ, mother-in-law

ALOM GIL, JULIO
Position
Residence 851731
Phone
Dependents

17
First Secretary
Cuban Mission to the UN
251 East 51st St., Apt. 10L
593-0480
MARIELA LARRALENDI RODES, wife, (Recoded)
born 4/10/36; LENA ROSA ALOM
LARRALENDI, daughter, born
11/22/64; LAURA ESTHER ALOM
LARRAFNDI, daughter, born
5/11/67

DE SOUZA, ANTONIO
Position
Residence
Phone
Dependents

110
Adviser
83-10 35th Ave., Apt. 6J,
Jackson Heights, NY
TW 9-9282
ALICIA MATEOS DE SOUZA wife; (Recoded)
ANA MARIA, daughter, born 2/7/54;
ALICIA ANTONIA, daughter, born
6/23/51

DRAKE CAPIRO, PABLO
Position
Residence 815821
Phone
Dependents

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC (R Coded)
UN 1-5250
CONSUELO HORTA LARRIAGA, wife

SECRET
CS COPY

MICROFILMED
APR 23 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

FRANCO GONZALEZ, RUBEN RAFAEL
Position
DGI Residence (201-857465)
Phone

CELARENT MARTINEZ, JUSTO CESAR
Position (201-839221)
DGI Residence
Phone

JIMENEZ PADRON, FLORENTINO
Position
Residence (201-850953)
Phone
Dependents

MORALES CARBALLO, PEDRO A.
Position
Residence (201-850951)
Phone
Dependents

PEREIRA GONZALES, ORLANDO F.
Position
DGI Residence (201-848605)
Phone
Dependent

PEREZ ALFONSO, ROLANDO
Position (201-836757)
DGI Residence
Phone
Dependent
*Cleaning o/a 11 April 1970*

Pet.

19
Attache
370 E. 69 St., Apt. 5K

---

17
Attache
61-15 97th St.
Elmhurst, NY, Apt. 15M
699-5526

10
Attache *(chauffeur)*
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250 *(R coded)*
AGUEDA MARTINEZ GARCIA, wife, born 4/15/37

17
Counsellor, CMUN
400 E. 55th St., Apt. 16
593-2431 *(R coded)*
MARTA ANGELINA DE LOS REYES, wife, born 2/2/41; ARIANELA MORALES DE
LOS REYES, daughter, born 11/10/64; PEDRO CESAR MORALES DE LOS REYES,
son, born 7/31/69; ISABEL BERMUDEZ
DIEZ, born 4/18/07

19
First Secretary
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250 *(R coded)*
MARIA DE LOS ANGELES LOPEZ CANAS,
wife, 3/1/47

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250 *(R coded)*
KARLA DE LAS MARTINEZ LARA, wife

- 2 -

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

PRINERO ETRIN, PEDRO LUIS
DGI Position
Residence (201-524376)
Listing soon
Dependent

PRENDES GUTIERREZ, ORLANDO
DGI- Position
Center Chief Residence (201-330002)
Phone
Dependent

REYES GOICOCIDA, RAUL
DGI Position
Residence (201-859874)
Phone

REYES VEGA, JORGE E.
DELETE: DGI Position
Residence (201-816437)
departed PCS on Phone
7 March 1970 Depeniente: MABIETA REYES

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
DGI Position
Residence (201-332665)
Phone

SANTANA FRAIZ, MIGUEL H.
DGI Position
Residence (201-816439)
Phone

SANTIAGO HUMET, ROBERTO
DGI Position
Residence (201-854875)
Phone

Pet.

19
Third Secretary
401 E. 74th St., Apt. 5K, NYC
861-2468
JUANA CRUZ FERNANDEZ, wife

19
First Secretary
201 E. 66th St., Apt. 7H, NYC
249-0324
TERESITA FERNANDEZ ARANGO DE
PREIDES, wire

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67th St., NYC
UN 1-5250

20
Second Secretary
15 W. 72nd St., Apt. 17H, NYC
787-0544
MABIETA REYES, daughter

110
First Secretary
Park Plaza Apartments
61-15 97th St., Elmhurst, NY,
Apt. 15M
699-5526

19
Attache
345 E. 81st St., NYC, Apt. 5J
UN 1-5662

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250

- 3 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

VIERA LINARES, JOSE
Position
DGI Residence (201-328953)
Phone
Leaving Pcs Dependents
14 April 1970

Pet.

Counselor
305 E. 72nd St., Apt. 2E, NYC
AG 9-2077
MARTA BERMUDEZ GARCIA, (wife;)
JULIO ANTONIO VIERA Y BERMUDEZ,
son; ISABEL BEATRIZ VIERA Y
BERMUDEZ, daughter.

ADD ON:

FERNANDEZ Padilla, Victoria
POSITION
RESIDENCE (201-340661)
PHONE
DEPENDENTS

17
ATTACHE
220 E. 63rd St., Apt. 5 M, NYC

None

CADALSO Bandomo (n), Rafael
Dehiled DGI- POSITION
Code clerk RESIDENCE (201-866098)
PHONE
Arrived eatle DEPENDENTS
April 1970

Attache
CMUN, 6 E. 67th St., NYC
UN 1-5250
NANCY GUIROLA MAZAURRIETA, (wife;)
RAFAEL CADALSO GUIROLA, son;
MARLEN CADALSO GUIROLA, daughter

- 4 -

14-5-42


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

DATE 081 29 MAR-62

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: IW 2

INFO: DOP, COP, CA CX/PNG, CR/PAG, CA/PROP, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/INT 6, FT/05, 106-43, AD/CI 2, S/C 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET

ROUTING

MAR 29 05072 62

ROUTINE

IN 10495

TDCS-3/506, 346

RAT 1962

DIR GUAT INFO PACY LANT CITE MEXI 0408

INTEL

SUPDATA LINLUCK FROM VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ. RE PARA TWO PGT SENT CONGRATULATIONS TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY CONFIRMED FACT HE SHOULD CONTINUE HANDLE EXCLUSIVELY PURCHASE WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT BUT TO BE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT HIS PERSONAL SECURITY. FILED 290005Z REPORT CLASS SECRET NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL (HMM 6283) GUATEMALA/MEXICO SUBJECT VIEWS OF THE PGT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA DON 24 MARCH 62 PADA MEXICO, MEXICO CITY 24 MARCH 62 APR 2 PERSON (B) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS IN GUATEMALAN EXILE CIRCLES IN MEXICO.

INDEX

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE CABLE ISTRTBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS.TOCS.

WH/REG WH/3/G

RELEASING IWO:

![signature of JOHN GILL]

DATE DISTRIBUTED: MAR 29 15032 62

BASED ON: HMM 6283. LINLUCK

LIAISON 29 mar. 62

SECRET

35-9-9

PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY:

This material containe information effecting the National Defence of the United States within the meaning of the Esplonege Love, Title 18, U.S.C. Sock. Md and FM the transmission ne revoiates of which in any manner to as unauthorised person is prohibsted by law,

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY GUATEMALA/MEXICO

REPORT NO. TDCS-3/506, 346

SUBJECT PGT VIEWS ON THE ROLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA

DATE DISTR. 29 MARCH 1962.

DATE OF INFO. 24 MARCH 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

REFERENCES IN 10495

PLACE & DATE ACO. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (24 MARCH 1962)

FIELD REPORT NO. HMM 6283

APPRAISAL 2

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE PERSON (B) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG GUATEMALAN EXILES IN MEXICO.

1. VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ, HEAD OF THE PARTIDO GUATEMALTECO DEL TRABAJO (PGT/GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST PARTY) IN MEXICO, SAID ON 24 MARCH THAT THE PGT IN GUATEMALA REGRETS THE WAY IN WHICH THE GUERRILLA FIGHT HAS DEVELOPED THERE. ACCORDING TO THE PGT, THE RESULTS OF THE GUERRILLA FIGHTING HAVE NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP (MEMBER OF THE 13 NOVEMBER 1960. ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT) HEADED BY MARCO ANTONIO YON SOSA, IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLITICAL CONCEPTS OF THE COMMUNIST STRUGGLE. THE PGT ALSO REGRETS THAT THE COMMUNISTS AND MEMBERS OF THE PARTIDO DE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIO (PUR-EXTREME LEFTIST PARTY) HEADED BY CARLOS PAZ TEJADA WERE INTERCEPTED AND

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR 00 DIA FBI

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

![scribbled notes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
(When Filled "In)
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

TDCS-3/506,346
IN
10495
PAGE
2

FORCED TO FIGHT WHEN CONDITIONS WERE NOT ADVANTAGEOUS FOR THEM.
ACCORDING TO THE PGT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTROUS, WITH THE LOSS
OF "MIDDLE RANK COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS AND NATIONAL LEADERS."

THE PGT CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE.
HOWEVER, THE PGT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL
YDIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT OF GUATEMALA, WILL SOON FALL.

2. THE MAIN HOPE OF THE PGT NOW HINGES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE
   GUERRILLA GROUP ORGANIZED AND ARMED IN MEXICO. (FIELD COMMENT:
   IT HAS BEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO
   HAD CROSSED THE MEXICAN/GUATEMALAN BORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND HAD
   ESTABLISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONT.) THE PGT BELIEVES THAT IT
   SHOULD CONCERN ITSELF WITH THE SURVIVAL OF THIS GROUP "EVEN IF THE
   POLITICAL CRISIS SHOULD ELIMINATE YDIGORAS". IT BELIEVES THAT THIS
   GROUP SHOULD CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN THE MOUNTAINS IN ORDER TO
   ESTABLISH AND STABILIZE ANY DEMOCRATIC REGIME.

3. GUTIERREZ SAID THAT HE HAD MET WITH ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ as
   LOPEZ, (THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY.
   RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PERSON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO
   TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA HERE IN MEXICO, STILL HAD NOT
   ARRIVED." RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR
   ALFONSO PRERA, A LEADER OF THE NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24
   MARCH.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI I&NS CINCARIB CINCLANT.

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SECRET
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL
(END OF MESSAGE)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UNDER ❑ YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
ARE TO FILE NO
FILE BID ❑
DESTROY ❑ SIG ❑

TOTAL COPIES: 16

SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

RI ❑ COPY ❑ DISIR

ALPRODUCTION CLOT

IMJAVE

ADVANCE COPY
TO: UNIT
TIME
BY
C/WH/S ❑ ISSUED ❑ SLOTTED ❑ SUAJO

VR. FILE NR N218, eCl, c/0/4, DC/WH/SA, P/ND L

R
SECRET 2323394
1
EXI O DIR CITE WAVE 5149
24 N28844
C
DYVOUR PERUDEN ANKAGE ZRKNICK
INDEXED AND CONTOLED CLIC
MATCHED
COPY

R
1
RECORD OFFICERT STAMP
C
The fore
auth:
C
Sign ed: Mmaige Srite
R.O. #:
24/c06
Y
Note: It a
:
It apropriate


ANITING

ITIAL



CONSAIC KIon


RI COPY

R
1
C
CS COPY
#201--33.206.5
23 NOV 64
CT 355759
RI COPY
COPY

FORM
COMPLETE
1-64 1389
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS
(35)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

CC: 2323352

HEKI INFO CIR CITE WAVE SING

JAF DYVOUR PERUREN AMAICA ZRKNICK

REF MEXI 1467(26958)

1. WAVE TRACES REFLECT SUBJ REF 1OCTICAL POGELIO RODRI LOPEZ, 231-332665. NO WAVE TRACES CHAIR NUSIN.

2. INDEX.

SECRET

* Stated that IDEN was unquestionably Rogilio Rodriguez López.

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

![Signature under the Records Officer Stamp]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

1. RI FILE NO. 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYMS. 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, 'ROGELIO 201-067886 LL PcZR 1222779
201-332665 MEXI-02883
SEX M DOB ? 19 DEC 62 00000000000000000000
CIT ? PI 11111111111111111111
OCC EDSEL USUALLY DRIVEN BY SUBJ, CUBAN 22222222222222222222 222
DIP AND SUSPECTED G-2 AGENT. MAR 62. 33333333333333333333
44444444444444444444
55555555555555555555
66666666666666666666
7777777777777777777 7
88888888888888888888
99999999999999999999

1 222 779

P-7365

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

![arrow pointing right]

FORM 887.
SECRET
(7.40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

1 Sept 1962.

10:07

22 Sept 1962

13:25 FAVIO RUIZ, de la Universidad Latinoamericana de La Habana, presento a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ por el compañero VIDOPIA. ROGELIO informo que hoy salio para Cuba en el-vuelo regular de Cubana.

17130PIA?

27 Sept 1962

17:10 JERRIN, el portero de la Embajada Cubana, reservó pasaje para ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ en el vuelo de manana en Cubana de aviación.

17:34 DOLORES DE LARA pidio a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ le traiga a su regreso de yata las "medidas de los zapatos de quien tú ya sabes, porque como le gustan mucho las botas de por aca, yo quisiera reglarle unas". Rogelio cumplir el encargo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

EMBAJADA DE CURA.-
L 30. 30. Tel. 14-13-26.-
10 septiembre 62.-

1134. Entrada 1535.- HF pregunta por VEGA y HD informa que-- no está; pregunta si quiere darle algún recado y HR dice que sí, que le diga que le hablo ALVAREZ (VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ): que el asunto que le encargó el sábado, ya está resuelto, que por favor le avise a Dn. ROGELIO, que éste no tenga pena, por que su asunto ya está arreglado. HD: muy bien.- 1153. -

M.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Warren
Jock
Reports

7 Sept 62

Memorandum for the Record
Subject: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

On 6 Sept 62, LITAMIL-7 told LITAMIL 3 that Subject has arrived in Mexico. She added that she was told not to put Subject on the Diplomatic List, *orders from Cuba.*

Subj arrived inMexico on 3 Sept 62 via Cubana Airlines - (LIFIRE B/2)

CKS

![signature]

FILE: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

P7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

6 July 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Jose M DASURTO

REFERENCE: Legal Attache memorandum dated 5 July 1962,
Same Subject

1. Our Mexico City files contain no identifiable reference to subject.

2. Regali PODRIG (7365) Third Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, contacted and Cabino FERNANDEZ on 26 September 1961 and arranged to meet with him. On or about 1 February 1962 Cabino FERNANDEZ received an invitation from the Cuban Embassy to attend a film showing at the Cuban Cultural Office, Tokyo 63. This information is from a sensitive reliable source and should not be disseminated outside your organization.

#5248

![signature p-7365]

Orig - Addressee
cc - Liaison with LA
Rec - 50-9-3-3 (Index names)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

Date: July 2, 1962

To:

From:

Subject: JOSE MIGUEL ABREY BASURTO

CONFIDENTIAL

This document is for the use of your agency only and neither it norits contents should be further distributed without appropriate authorization.

A source has advised that captioned individual, described as a Cuban national, is reportedly a resident of the state of Nevada. He allegedly makes frequent trips to Mexico from Nevada, and on occasions has traveled from Mexico City to Cuba, returning to the United States via Mexico.

While in Mexico City, captioned individual reportedly resides with Lic. GABINO FERNANDEZ, Secretaria de la Presidencia, Berlin, Colonia Juarez, Mexico, DF. The source advised that GABINO FERNANDEZ frequently visits Havana, having made as many as eight to ten trips monthly.

This office would be most appreciative of any informa- tion you may be able to furnish concerning the activities of ABREU BASURTO and GABINO FERNANDEZ.

105-3013


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SICERPT

DBA-11277
28 May 1962

FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - CUBA

I. PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO CUBAN EMBASSY, MEXICO CITY

EXCELSIOR Mexico City daily newspaper 7, May 6, 1962, page 70, contained a brief article entitled, "Airport," which stated in part that ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, Third Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City, returned to Havana, Cuba ..... on May 5, 1962. ..... RODRIGUEZ said that he will remain in his country for a year and will serve the socialist government of Prime Minister FIDEL CASTRO.

.....

EXCERPT

DBA-11277
28 May 1962


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

14-00400

DATE :

TO :

CITE :

14 may 62.

1. VEGA K.

SPORT S

C

3. SE OF ON

ORIG OFP:

DIST:

LL:

DOES NO

AVEL TO S.

1.080.00

BALLAST 00:

IS FORBIDDEN CRODUCE THIS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

> [Figure] The photo features three men in suits, dressed in formal attire. They are posing side-by-side in front of a backdrop with trees and architecture.  The photo also features text, including “LIFIRE/20”, “MAY”, “Roglio, RODRIGUEZ Lipay”, “20 MAY 61” and P.1365.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

Al C. General de Brigada, José Gómez Huerta,
Jefe del Estado Mayor Residencial,
Los Pinos.

Informe No. 001699
DE:
C-4.
TEMA: SALIDA DE UN CUBANO.
FECHA: Mayo 7, 62.

HECHOS:

1.-
En el Vuelo # 465 de la Cia. Cubana de Aviación,
que salió con destino a la Habana, Cuba el día 4
del actual a las 15.00 horas, salió :

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, con Pasaporte D/61/164,
de 19 años, soltero, cubano, con Visa Diplomática
ir 334 del 10/5/62 expedida en la Habana, Cuba.

DATOS OPERATIVOS.

Vigilancia Aereopuerto.

Respetuosamente.

Jefe del Grupo
L. Silveti.

![Signature P-7365]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

FROM:

SUBJECT:

11 May 1962

Jules

1.  On 11 May 1962 BENADUM (P) reported that LITEMPO/1 had said that Rogelio RODRIGUEZ left Mexico (PCS) on 4 May 1962.

2.  Manuel E. VEGA Perez replaced Rogelio RODRIGUEZ in the Cuban Embassy, according to LITEMPO/1.

Distribution:
Orig - Rogelio RODRIGUEZ P-
1 - Manuel E. VEGA Perez P-
1 - LITEMPO/Prod.

SECRET
P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

7 May 62

27:27

rucho 2.
dejó col :
pesar de u oferta areton 1, por este colante un comento, prs vorenos guardar ca. 1 como posible toda fitantiore". O tende a les 10:00 hs.


7 May 62

14:58

Un indir obotina en ro dar cu nombre, pice com SVECES
1072 o con ROCS SA CO. Secretario da ia abajo Cubara
y le pid y que si tutore Fabin ach 61
O pocer 110 מין
tengo un a le otor poco,
había in a crue ha a accer cl wac, entonces con in oire to din
pormona, de for antes de los cartros 31 y
do lleme: či: le que donde hacen los aparator".
sará el rod


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

EXCERPT

REPORT NO. HMM-6343
1 May 1962

CUBAN ASSISTANCE AND INTERVENTION IN THE
GUATEMALAN POLITICAL SITUATION

Appraisal of Content: 2

.....

2. ..... Fernandez [Csmin FERNANDEZ Concepcion, Cuban Communist] said that he first met with Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, Third Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, and with other trusted members of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico to aid the Guatemalan revolution. According to Fernandez, Habana was consulted and Castro gave instructions that assistance be given immediately to the 13 November group and that encouragement should be given to the guerrilla fighters.

.....

EXCERPT
HMM-6343
1 May 1962


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

27 April 62.

16:28
# KIENIQUE ESTEVES

Report

benineto eca al animo ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, pues le urge saber ui ya tiene la autevización de piso para visitar a la Habana. El portere da la Babajola manifestó que ROGELIO se encuentra un el Asturyasorte pire que no se va hoy a taba aine hasta ol próximo vieres.

28 April 62

14:27
# JUA/REJANO

co sconto gochupin, indicó a MAIZ “Dicho, por taro de sabano Cubano, que necesita hablar con ROGELIO impo definitinente; atc; que si le puede der un fomento; atc; que si le puede mandar recado.
MAIZ dic: que REJANO ha salido y no sabe a qué sitio, porque os tigre se le dirá que veya a verlo. REJANO le pide - mandarle recerde a algún sitio, porque os una coce muy urente, MAIZ está seguro que ROGELIO no está en su ec. power a mujer se fué ayer a Cuba y él habri ido a co lado, pero crec que vuelve por la tarde. REJANO pide le diga en cuento llegue que se commie con ói, ya sabende, que tiene urgentisi warte que hablar con él, "pue: vote Louie parece que se te olvidado de qua tonía- cos que me he visto eyor, y de una porción de cosus, y es- toy verdrate panic". MAIZ 31 tone noumativo coconte que "aquioiden machre recer", pero que en cuerdo vea a ROGELIO 1 ESTEVES que REJANO lo esté baseando con veriatore ur- gencia. MAIZ ietre conicata en forma ruda a todo mundo e Inclusive alternal de Ir. abajada, pero en este caso se dirige a REJANO liamándolo JUANITO y le habia con mucho co medimiento.

4 may 62

11:02
# Consuler

Un individuo del Do etín Diplomático y Consuler maniicato a TERESA que la Embajade Cupant solici tado succiicis ara los coñorea (ALLOO y RODRICHST CUEZ. TICC que los mencion de escuentros aqui, por mas que ella hable del Letajeto INCHUGA le clente el tremato. El iniicidio es El bajado dice que muy bien, may enteriemede y "con grace planes merales", y ahora sólo cat ceperendo la prestación se redenciales y todo eso.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

290.-

Entrada a las 1154hs.- HF Rogelio Rodriguez -de la Embajada de Cuba- por Alexandrov.- 357.- IND que Alexandrov está
LIEN voy muy ocupado, que 61 la llamará mas tarde.- Rogolios que es que
25Abr62 el agregado comercial quería tener una cita con Alexandrov y que por eso le llamaba.- IDI enterado.---- 370.-

P-7365

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

17 Apr 62

14:36
Desde Cuba, el nuevo Embajador LECHUGA manifestó a su esposa GLADIS, quien junto con la hija de ambos ya se encuentra en México, que para el día 20 estará aquí. GLADIS a su vez indica que ayer se recibieron las órdenes de traslado de ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ y de XIONIDA SANCHEZ, y que ésta última quiere saber a dónde la trasladan, para llevar ropa adecuada, quiere saber si la van a mandar a Rusia. LECHUGA le recomienda decirle que eso no se sabe todavía.

23 apr. 62

Lunes

17:55 El Embajador ... con el Sr. RAUL.
Este le indicó que ahora tiene unos mellizos, unos libros,
que ahora tuvo que los lleve a México acuchó que por
lo que res este a él puede... PEREZ se puede
decidir que se deben concentrar a la Habana. A continuación
RA pone en comunicación con por parte
fiesta que sale a Cuba el día 21. Por su parte LECHUGA dice
que él saldrá rumbo a México el día 30.

18:55 De parte de ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ llaman al Sr. STREATER de la Imprenta STATS.
STATS indica que irá
por allá como a las 12:30 hs. La mujer dice que a esa hora
llenan el suelo de Habana. STREATER dice que en ese negocio irá en media borrachera.

25 apr. 62

20:00 Un mesero del restaurante Cire's se quejó con ROGELIO RODRI-
CUEZ de la Embajada Cubana, en el sentido de que en la mañana les arrojaron unas bombas pestilentes y por la tarde han seguido haciendo lo mismo y arrojando a la vez unas fotografías del Embajador PORTUONDO algo indecentes, por lo que de seguir así las cosas, han acordado no exponer el restaurante a mayores daños. ROGELIO manifestó que ya están acostumbra-dos a esas pendejadas.

20:24 El Ing. MANUEL MARCUE preguntó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que si la reunión tendrá lugar en el Cire's. ROGELIO indicó que en virtud de haber algunas dificultades, se acordó efectuarla en la Embajada Cubana. MARCUE allí estará.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

EMBAJADA CUHANA.- 14-92-14.
17-abril-62.
M13-L13.-

93.-
Entrada a las 1024h8.- Rojas con Xiomara le dice que tiene boletos para ella su hija y Rogelio Rodriguez para la Habana.- Rojus le pregunta que si la taadáadan.- Xiomara: que si Rojas: que a donde.- Xioms que no sabe, que ni el embajador lo sabe: que ella necesita saber porque tiene que llevar bota de miliciana, que no hay, ni pistola.- Rojas: que a poco va de miliciana.- Xiomara: que sí, que a ella le duele muchísimo el traslado porque ella adora aquí porque tiene muchos amigos.- Rojas: que si no se podría arreglar eso y que a quien van a mandar en su lugar.- Xiomara: que no sabe.---- Xiomara: hace la aclaración que Rogelio tiene señora y que está aquí.- Rojas: que no mandan boleto para la señora y que Rogelio necesita que lo arregle luego. Que si a Rogelio también lo trasladan. Xiomara: que sí.- Rojas: que si tampoco sabe a donde. Xiomara: que tampoco sabe, que a lo mejor es a Cuba. Quo ella tendrá que irse con los embajadores.- Rojas: que entonces le diga a Rogelio que arregle lo del boleto de su señora.---
Rojas: que también tienen orden de pasaje para Ester Gatilán Rosales, para que le avisen.- Xiomara: que Cater Gaviláh e8 la mujor de Rogelio -que dice Berta-.- Rojas: que entonces que da solucionado el probleria.----- Rojas pregunta que si astá Carrillo porque tiene que hablar con el con urgencia o con alguno de la comisión.----151.- HD Quintana con Rojas le dice que ya sabe que están con el problema del equipaje de ellos que a Cuba no se puede mandar nada por cobrar y que hay que pagar el exceso: que le dijo Carrillo que iba a hablar con alguien en la Habana para ver como solucionaban esos que hoy recibió un radio y que tiene que contestarlo urgentes que la única menera que tiene que hacer es visarles la cantidad de equipaje que tienen y que con una orden de MINREX puede docum


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

- 2 -

montarse el equipaje pero que para eso necesita saber cuánto equipaje llevan.- Quintanas que la va a decir la cantidad que se pagó por exceso en Peruana que os lo único que le puede decir....que fueron 487 dólares pero que lo dejaron en 365 dólares; qur el recico co cieno Carrillo; que ese pago se hizo de Guayaquil a México.- Rojaat que cuantas porsonas eran.- Quintanat que doce.- Rojast y que si esas doco personas van a viajar juntas ala Habana. Quintanat que si.- Rojast que con esa información va a hacer un cálculo de cuantos kilos son para mandar un radio a in Habana porque hay que mandar una orden de Canje a Minrex para que se puede usar.- Quintanat que al doctor Carrillo se le puede llamar al teléfono - 14008.- Rojasi que no pueda ser porque deben de ser seis cifras.- Quintanas que es 140008.----222-

....


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

Operation1/LINLUCK's relationship with Scoin 9. BRAC's Concepcion, aka "Oswaldo", concerning Guatemalan Guerrilla activities.

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO. 50 6 50/3

DISPATCH OR SOURCE, DOC. SYMBOL NO. HMA-10661(HYD-142) 17 Apr. 62

SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

LINLUCK 13 Apr. 62

ANALYST DATE PROCESSED DISSEMINATED IN DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

XX CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ;

(mentioned page 6, 1st. paragraph)

(Reported to be trusted by Cuban Emb., Mex. City)

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

P-7369

FORM NO. 867 REPLACES FORM 867. 1 AUG 54
1 MAY 56 AND FORM 137 WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SECRET

(7-46)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

110pгiь 62

13:05 Un individuo que dijo ser de la PCB, pregutó a ROGELIO RO
DRIGUEZ s1 ya puede pasar por las peliculas a la kadej
de cubes, puss is fuae tác para mañana en la erda; 73
82 Ruasio a notairec repartieron in sciones
Slous. ROGELIO indica que tiens usa: le plai
eud to is causoupe de a treaga luego p4:48 58024 E 305
pada si viernes an oier inde. Diladi. pro qu
l08
si uedo recoger las dos peliculas que las quodade, o Joa
El sjérvito Rebelia y Barta evaser. ROGELIO iica 40
tle Marte al invaser y tae tratar de consei
to Rebelde. Bi tadividuo dies que hablan
de,
pes que la que aporta as fanentainous raal in
18o y que entonces a las 17:00 hs. pasará por is abada.

12 April 62

10:22 ESPEJL preguntó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ por la película. Bato di
ja que tendrá que esperar hasta matana pues la tuve que pres
tar, pero está nueva, co tiene cingen detecto. ESPEJBL pide a
ROSELIO la lista de racionamientos. Es mejor se dirija a TERK
SA PROENZA

10:40 MARTA TAMAYO en nombre del Grupo de Mujeres invita a ROSA CAS-
TRO entre otras personas, a una despedida que ofrecen a EKITA
DEFORTOONDO el martes 17 a las 15:00 hs. en la casa de TAMAYC

Del Ceremonial da Relaciones avisaron que el Lle.AMARISCAL res
be al Labajador HOXES Tue 12:30 he.

11:07 VERGARA preguntó ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ "nuestro amigo podrá lle
marse por teléfono?" ROGELIO cree que si, adozás ól le avica
rá. VERGARA quiere informarle sobre un saunto.

11:23 RABADAN del periódion "Verdades" preguntó AROGELIO PODRIGUEZ
cómo 1. pareció is publicación y que opina de lo de TEANEDY.
BOGEL! que está bien. RABATAN agrega que dessa pasar
a ver ADO, ROGELIO lo cita para el lunes pr.

17 гр 62

10:29 JORGE HOME, de la Cabana de Avidaica
NEX SCHRZ. de la Rabajada Cubans, que ya llegarea The brásze
15 pasaje para ella y su hija, así como para RUNJOMOURI-
HER LOPES Y señore, Asimismo pregunta extraindo que si a
ROGELIO trabida lo trasladas, IOMARA asiato, agogie ges
perces que a tedes van a cambiar


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

Judith Firreto Ficas 2 Apr 62

9:56

JUDITS, con acento cubano, preguntó a la cubana "EP23A FROEB-¿A qué hay. PERESA responde que hay cantidad de cosas, pero en general todo bien. Il dice que "tenemos que hablar mucho". TERESA espera que sea hoy. JUDITH pregunta cómo cotá BLENITA y que si recibió su carta. TERESA se la entregó personalmente. Asimismo le pregunta cómo dejó a la familia alla y cómo está el bovisiento. JUDITH responde que toda la faallia bien y el Movimiento está magnifico. TERESA le pregunta que cuándo llegó. JUDITH llego el sábado en la tarde y estuvo tratando de localisarla. TERESA se pasó todo el día en Puebla. Asimismo le pregunte cus si conoce a una joven MARTA, costarricense, de Frensa Latina y que esta casada con al Priser Secretario de aqui". JUDITH no la recuerda. TERSSA indica que MARTA va a venir pronto, pues ahora está en La Habana esperando un becé y cuando venga se la presentará. JUDITH pregunta por ROJO. TERESA contesta que a ROGELIO no lo ha visto hoy. A. Jele urge mucho hablar con él y le pide a TERKSA se lo diga así tan pronto coro lo vea. TERESA indica que inmediatamente que venga ROGELIO io comunicará con JUDITH.

5april 62

10:30

El Ing. TEODORO ALTAMIRANO : idió a nombre de la Asociación Nueva Generación del Istao le manden a Chaloo núm. 96-17, México, J.P., las publicaciones y revistes que envían de La Habana. POGELIO tomό nota.

12:27 MAIZ, desde la portería, manifiesta a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que lo busca MAURICIO AREGOLLIE. ROGELIO ordena que lo pasen.

12:50 ALBERTO LUMBRERAS pregunta a JORGE L. PANATO qué sabe acerca del empleo ese en la Cuenca dol Balsas. TAMAYO responde que no ha visto a CUAUHTEMOC, pero seguramente lo verá en estos dies. ALBERTO le suplich no deje de tratar al ssunto.

12:59 LUIS ACTES Espera a ROGELIORODRIGUEZ en la portería de Ia Antajeds. ROGELIO bajará a rorig

7 apr 62

13:10. HUMBERTO H. MISO realizó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada ens que lo tiene ay dividade, que auté cerents do material y que además tiene un ssunte muy importante que tratarde. ROGELIO pasará a var a ese oficina.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# SECRET

DATE: 01 APR 62

FRECEDENCE: ROUTINE

CITE: PACY 7711

IN NUMBER: 7656

TO : DIR

INFO: MEXI CARA QUAT

RYBAT HYAB

REF: A. PACY 7640 (NOT SENT CARA GUAT) ((SIN 7490))

B. PACY 7421 (NOT SENT CARA GUAT) ((IN 6992))

1. HYAB RETURNED PACY FROM MEXI REF TRIP 29 MARCH VIA GUEST FLT 270. CARRIED $5,000 RECEIVED FROM SOVIET EMBASSY MEXI THROUGH MARTINEZ VERDUGO. THESE FUNDS TO BE USED BY PDP FOR TRIPS TO VARIOUS CONGRESS INCLUDING FORTHCOMING KOMSOMOL CONGRESS, WHICH HYAB BELIEVES WILL BE HELD IN MOSCOW. PDP WILL SEND ONE DELEGATE.

2. ON RETURN FLIGHT HYAB HAD LONG CONVERSATION WITH DEPUTY EDUARDO MACHADO, LEADING CARA CP LEADER. MACHADO STATED TOP CARA CP REQUIREMENT IS OBTAIN ALL POSSIBLE INFO ON U.S. TRAINING BASES IN CANAL ZONE, PARTICULARLY ANY TRAINING LATIN AMERICANS IN ANTI-GUERRILLA WARFARE WHICH IN PART TO BE UTILIZED AS INSTRUCTIONS VENEZUELAN COMMUNIST GUERRILLAS AS WELL AS TO UTILIZE INFO TO COUNTER ANTI COMMUNIST GUERRILLAS.

3. HYAB FURTHER IDENTIFIED QUOTE EL ROJO UNQUOTE (REPORTED REF B) AS ROGELIO LNU, CUBAN ENDISSY FUNCTIONARS IN MEXI AND WAS SHOWN CP QUOTE SAFEHOUSE UNQUOTE AT 175 CALLE MONTES DE OCA, APT. 1.

4. HYAB ALSO RECEIVED GENERAL BRIEFING ON GUAT CP STRATEGY AND POLICY LINE FROM MARTINEZ VERDUGO, WHO FOLLOWING SITUATION CLOSELY. INTEL CABLE TO FOLLOW. POUCHING DETAILS.

END OF MESSAGE

EOB: 01/20452

SIST: SUBJECT FILE COMO CHRONO

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE 29 MAR 62
JO SEC.RET ROUTING
TO DIRECTOR
FROM MEXICO CITY
MAR 29 05072 62
ACTION: IW 2
INFO DOP, COP, CA, CA/FM, CA/PAG, CA/PROP, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/INT 6, FT/D, TT/J, AD/CI 2, S/C 2
ROUTINE
IN 10495
TOCS 3/306,346

DIR GUAT INFO PACY LANT CITE MEXI 0408

INTEL

SUPDATA LINLUCK FROM VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ. AE RARA TWO PGT SENT CONGRATULATIONS TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY CONFIRMED FACT HE SHOULD CONTINUE HANDLE EXCLUSIVELY PURCHASE WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT BUT TO BE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT HIS PERSONAL SECURITY. FILED 290005Z REPORT CLASS SECRET NOFORN CONTINUED CONTROL(IMM 6283) GUATEMALA /MEXICO SUBJECT VIEWS OF THE PGT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA DON 24 MARCH 62 PADA MEXICO, MEXICO CITY 24 MARCH 62 APR 2 PERSON (H) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS IN GUATEMALAN EXILE CIRCLES IN MEXICO.

RODRIGUEZ
Lopez

INDEX

IW COMMENT:

NO SEPARATE CABLE CONTRIBUTION IS BEING MADE OF THIS TOCS.

W/
W/3/

RELEASING IWO:

DATE DISTRIBUTED
BASED ON:
TDCS PRECEDENCE
ROUTINE
PRIORITY
MAR 29 1962
LIAISON LINLUUR
SECRET
Copy 29 March 6
PRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

**SECRET**

CLASSIFICATION-DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

COUNTRY GUATEMALA/MEXICO

REPORT NO. TDCS-5/300,346.

SUBJECT. PGT VIEWS ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA

DATE DISER. 19 MARCH 1962

DATE OF INFO.

24 MARCH 1962

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY, (24 MARCH 1962)

REFERENCES IN 10195

APPRAISAL 2

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE INFINITIVE, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

SOURCE

PERSON (N) WITH GOOD CONNECTIONS AMONG GUATEMALAN EXILES IN MEXICO.

1. VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ, HEAD OF THE PARTIDO GUATEMALTECO DEL TRABAJO (PGT/GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST PARTY), IN MEXICO, SAID ON, 24 MARCH THAT THE PGT, IN GUATEMALA REGRETS THE WAY IN WHICH THE GUERRILLA FIGHT HAS DEVELOPED THERE, ACCORDING TO THE PGT, THE RESULTS OF THE GUERRILLA FIGHTING HAVE NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP (MEMBER OF MR-13 NOVEMBER 1960 ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT) HEADED BY MARCO ANTONIO YON SOSA, IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLITICAL CONCEPTS OF THE COMMUNIST STRUGGLE. THE PGT ALSO REGRETS THAT THE COMMUNISTS AND MEMBERS OF THE PARTIDO DE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIO (PURE EXTREME LEFTIST PARTY) HEADED BY CARLO PAZ TEJADA WERE INTERCEPTED AND ARRESTED.

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

[STATE ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS | SICDIF NSA NIC USIA OCI ONE | NORR OO STA

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

27 June 62

35-9-8

21 March 62


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SECRET

NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

IDCS-3/06,340

PAGE 2

FORCED TO FIQHU WHEN CONDITIONS WERE NOT ADVANTAGEOUS FOR THEM. ACCORDING TO THE PGT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTROUS, WITH THE LOSS OF "MIDDLE RANK COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBERS AND NATIONAL LEADERS."

THE PGT CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE. HOWEVER, THE PGT STILL BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL YDIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT OF GUATEMALA, WILL SOON FALL.

2. THE MAIN HOPE OF THE PGT NOW HINGES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE GUERRILLA GROUP ORGANIZED AND ARIED IN MEXICO. (FIELD COMMENT: IT HAS BEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO MAD CROSSED THE MEXICAN/GUATEMALAN BORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND HAD ESTABLISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONT.) THE PAT BELIEVES THAT IT SHOULD CONCERN ITSELF WITH THE SURVIVAL OF THIS GROUP "EVEN IF THE POLITICAL FRISIS SHOULD ELIMINATE YDIGORAS". IT BELIEVES THAT THIS GROUP SHOULD CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN THE MOUNTAING IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH AND STABILIZE ANY DEMOCRATIC REGINC.

3. GUTIERREZ SAID THAT HE HAD MET WITH ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY. RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PERSON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA HERE IN MEXICO, STILL HAD NOT ARRIVED." RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR ALFONSO PRERA, A LEADER OF THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24 MARCH.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FOI IGANS CINCARIS CINCLANT.

(END OF MESSAGE)

SECRET

NOFORN/CONTUED CONTROL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

EMBAJADA DE CUBA..-
M 11, L 11. Tol. 14-42-37.-
29 marzo 62 :-

841. Entrada 1232.- MARTEL con ROGELIO (empiezan a hablar -
     en el número 871) para recordarle que antes de ayer hab16
     con 61 y le pidió que le llevara una cosa, pero no ha podi-
     do pasar porque no tiene tiempo, pero ellos quedaron de lla
     marle ésta mailana a su casa y no le llamaron y el otro asun
     to está por llegar y quedó pendiente hasta el jueves, que -
     es fundamental que le llamen para arreglar eso. ROGELIO
     pregunta si no puede pasar por la Embajada y MARTEL indica-
     que nó, que no tiene nada de tiempo, que les diga que le ha
     blen a su casa hoy a las 16.00 h. porque ella sale mañana y
     no le da tiempo para nada, que lo que ROGELIO le pidió, se-
     lo entregue a la persona que le tiene que llevar la otra
     cosa. ROGELIO acepta.- 899.-

899. Entrada 1239.- El Sr. VERGARA con ROGELIO para plati--
     carle que ha tenido malas noticias de su familias pregunta-
     que hay del boletin y ROGELIO indica que todavía no sale, -
     que si gusta le puede llevar algunos números atrazados que-
     él tiene.: VERGARA: que sí, porque le urgen, que aunque
     sea el anterior. ROGELIO acepta y dice que se los 110-
     varía el sábado. VERGARA: que a él le gustaría que fuera
     hoy mismo. ROGELIO: que tiene muchos compromisos y no -
     puede salir y no se los podría llevar personalmente.
     VERGARA pregunta si ya sabe lo que le sucedió a su hermano.
     ROGELIO dico que sí, pero que le gustaría que le contara -
     qué fuá lo que le sucedió. VERGARA: que sí, que por
     eso quería contarle lo que le pasó, por su esposa y todo, -
     además todos los niños cayeron en cama y él cree que no tie
     nen salvación y la cosa es Grave, pide vaya a su casa hoy -
     mismo. ROGELIO: que irá como a las 17.00 h. VERGA-
     RA está de acuerdo, agregando que así hablará con su herma-
     no y le recomiende "al médico, aquel que me dijo".
     ROGELIO acepta,- 939.-

939. Entrada.- HP con ROGELIO para recordarle que habló con
     61 haco como dos meses pidióndole unos ejemplares de la Obra


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

- 2 -

Revolucionaria, el número 26, dei discurso de FIDEL CASTRO; que ya los recibió y le envió acuse de recibo por correo:-- pregunta si La Obra Rovolucionaria ya editó la segunda de-- claración de La Habana. ROGELIO: que nó, que ellos tio nen el boletin de información de la Embajada, en donde está impresa la segunda declaración de La Habana. HF pide - le facilite un número igual de ejemplares, es decir 25. - ROGELIO acepta y pide su nombre y dirección. HF: JORGE - BASUNTO, Avenida UNO número 76, Manzana 6, Colonia Educación, México 21. ROGELIO toma nota. BASURTO: que a 61- le interesaría visitar Cuba, pero no sabe si haya manera de ira los festejos del 26 de Julio, ya que en ocasiones ante riores se han hecho invitaciones a estudiantes de la Univer sidad y él quisiera saber si hoy habrá oportunidad de ir. -

ROGELIO: que él creé que se seguirá el mismo sistema de in- vitaciones, pues éstas vienen de Cuba y ellos unicamente - trasladan al Instituto Cubano de Amistad con los Pueblos, - las peticiones de los que desean ir a Cuba. BASURTO -- pregunta cuál es el conducto para hacer la solicitud y ROGE LIO le sugiere mande una carta a la Embajada dirigida al Embajador. BASURTO agradece la información, agregando- que en cuanto le lleguen las revistas, le avisará. ROGE LIO acepta.- 984.-

1054. 
Entrada 1420.- VARGAS solicita hablar con ROGELIO y -- MD indica que fué a buscarlo a la portería, pero le informa ron que ya salió para su casa; que si gusta puedo dejarle el recado y VARGAS llame como a las 16.30 h. VARGAStque le diga que le ha llamado a partir de las 11.00 h. como le- indicó, tres veces, que es para el asunto de las revistas,- que ROGELIO ya sabe, pero quisiera hablar con él ahora mis- mo. HD toma nota del recado y pide que hable a las - 16.30 h. VARGAS acepta.- 1083.-

M.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET
CRYPTO-SECURITY DOES NOT APPLY: HANDLE-AS SECRET-CORRES

DATE: 20 MARCH 1962 PRECEDENCE: ROUTINE
TO : DIR GUAT INFO: PACY LAUT
CITE: XI 0408 TDCS 3/506,346

INTEL

SUNDATA LINLUCK FROM VICTOR LAGUEL GUTIERREZ, DE PARA TO FCT SIT CONGRATULATIONS
TO LINLUCK FOR HIS WORK AND OFFICIALLY CONFIRMED FACT HE SHOULD CONTINUE HAVING
EXCLUSIVELY PURCHASE WEAPONS AND MILITARY EQUIPMENT BUT TO BE VERY CAREFUL ABOUT HIS
PERSONAL SECURITY.

FILED 2900052

REPORT CLASS SECRET REPORT ON CONTINUED CONTROL GUATEMALA/MEXICO SUBJECT VIEWS
OF THE ICT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION IN GUATEMALA FOR 24 MARCH 1962 PADA MEXICO,
MEXICO CITY 24 MARCH 1962 APR 2 FEICON (B) SITE GOOD CORRECTIONS IN GUATEMALAN EXILE
CIRCLES IN MEXICO.

1. VICTOR MANUEL GUTIERREZ, HEAD OF THE PARTIDO GUATIMALTELCO DEL TRABAJO (PGT -
   GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST PARTY) IN MEXICO, SAID ON 24 MARCH THAT THE IGT IN GUATEMALA
   REGRETS THE WAY IN WHICH THE GUERRILLA FIGHT HAS DEVELOPED THERE. ACCORDING TO THE
   IGT, THE RESULTS OF THE GUERRILLA FIGHTING HAVE NOT BEEN SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE THE 13
   NOVEMBER GROUP (MEMBER OF THE 13 NOVEMBER 1960 ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN
   GOVERNMENT) HEADED BY MARCO ANTONIO YUS COSA, IS NOT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE POLITICAL
   CONCEPTS OF THE COMMUNIST STRUGGLE. THE IGT ALSO REGRETS THAT THE COMMUNISTS AND
   MEMBERS OF THE PARTIDO DE UNIDAD REVOLUCIONARIO (FUR - EXTREME LEFTIST PARTY) HEADED
   BY CALIOGA ARE INTERDICTED AND FORCED TO FIGHT UNDRR CONDITIONS THAT NOT
   ADVANTAGEOUS FOR THEM. ACCORDING TO THE IGT THE RESULTS WERE DISASTROUS, WITH THE
   LOSS OF MIDDLE RANK COMMUNIST PARTY CADRES AND NATIONAL LEADERS. THE IGT
   CONSIDERS IT A "MIRACLE" THAT PAZ TEJADA WAS ABLE TO ESCAPE. HOWEVER, THE IGT STILL
   BELIEVES THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF MIGUEL YDIGORAS FUENTES, PRESIDENT OF GUATEMALA, WILL
   SOON FALL.

ORIG-OFF: COORD OFF: RELEASING-OFF:

DIST: SUBJ FILE:
COMMO
CHRONO

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET
CRYPTO SECURITY DOES NOT APPLY. HANDLE-AS SECRET CORRES

DATE:

PRECEDENCE:
TO:
INFO:
CITE:
PAGE TWO
9403

2. THE MAIN HOPE OF THE ICT NOT FINISHES ON THE ACTIONS OF THE GUERILLA GROUP ORGANIZED AND ARMED IN MEXICO. (FIELD CONTENT: IT HAS BEEN REPORTED PREVIOUSLY THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO HAD CROSSED THE MEXICO/GUATEMALA AS BORDER SUCCESSFULLY AND HAD ESTABLISHED A SECOND GUERRILLA FRONT.) THE FCT BELIEVES THAT IT SHOULD CONCERN ITSELF WITH THE SURVIVAL OF THIS GROUP *EVEN IF THE POLITICAL CRISIS SHOULD ELIMINATE YODICORAS*. IT BELIEVES THAT THIS GROUP SHOULD CONTINUE TO OPERATE IN THE MOUNTAINS IN ORDER TO ESTABLISH AND STAFF ANY DEMOCRATIC REGIME.

3. GUTIERREZ SAID THAT HE HAD MET WITH IDOLIO *AGUIRRE* LOPEZ, THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY. RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT "THE PERSON FROM CUBA WHO IS GOING TO TAKE OVER RELATIONS WITH GUATEMALA HERE IN MEXICO, STILL HAD NOT ARRIVED." RODRIGUEZ TOLD GUTIERREZ THAT HE PLANNED TO SEE MAJOR ALFONSO FROMA, A LEADER OF THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO, ON 24 MARCH.

4. FIELD DISSEM: STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI IRIS CINCARE CINCLANT

END OF MESSAGE

ORIG-OFF: FLS
COORD OFF: LJB
RELEASING-OFF: WCC
DIST: SUBJ FILE: 1-chrono
COMMO
CHRONO

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

24 Mar 62

10:45 MAIZ, portero de la Kabajada Cubana dije a CELIO RODRIGUEZ que allí está uma persona que quiere verle. ROGELIO pregunta que qien o8. MAIZ dice que as le conoca, pero que Pakz dejú dicho que Riile atienda. Así se hará.

10:57 Un individue cou spento sudaasricang tal ves gusteaultoco, de nombre HILARIO, indicó a RECELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Enbajadu Cabara, que tiene uns coss urgente que darte. Al tratar de venir un lugar para recuerda el Jardin 6 on la Lans". ROCKLIO irá hey a las 20:00 hs.a buscarlo. Al despedirse HILARIO insiste sa que es urgente.

26 Mar 62

12

27 Mar 62

12:20 VERGARA, con scento sudamericano, pidió al subano ROSELIORO-DRIGUEZ: la llove ol bolstin. ROGELIO manifiesta que ha llegado, pero que le enviará los materiales "ésve n ted tanto le interesan".

12:49 RICARDO, con acepto cupare, indicó a ROGELIO NODRIGUEZ que ayer lo estuvo esperando. ROGELIO no pude ir, pero el jueves pasará a vers

28 Mar 62

13:27 MAIZ, portero de la Embajada de Cuba, anunció a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que allí lo están esperando ROBERTO GAYADA y el señor GARNICA. ROGELIO irá a la portería a recibirlos.

29 Mar 62

13:20 La señore HARTEL, con seento argentine, indies al cubang CELIO ANODRIGUEZ que sale mañana y que for faver le mamuda a esa percome las cosas que faltem". lo hard


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

13 19

15 March 19602

(Fono Gonzalez-Orti) manifesta a ROGELIO-RODRIGUEZ de la Kabajada Cubana, que se le habia rara comunicarle que no ha podido ór porque union sito, choco piedra "Shade la dijeron a ROGELIO, con MZN y que hoy en la noche indicaran con este ultimo para ver si mañana puede user a la señora, y pregunta a ROGELIO que como + que horas lo pueden encontrar. ROGELIO mypa pasa que a lass 10 esta en su oficina. Mao "62.

17:35

16 March 19602

De parte de EDMUNDO JARDOS, piden a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, les sobres para prensa Latina que hoy traje de Cuba un Agregado Cultural. ROGELIO dice que el Agregado esta charlando con el Embajador, y que posteriormente llevará esos sobres a Prensa Latina

16:36

19 Mar '6

VERGARA dejó recado para ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana en el sentido de que es urgente que se comunique con él. TENE SA pasará el recado.

Jueves 22 marzo 1962

10:04

MAIZ dijo a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que ahi en la portería esta el señor ISSOE y desea verlo. ROGELIO dice que lo pasara.

11 20

MAIZ, portero de la Embajada Cubana dice a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que ahi cata el General venezolano y quiera bajar ROGELIO amenaza que lo naga.

16:45

23 mar62

Desde la portería MAIZ indicó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, ambos de la Embajada Cubana, que ahí estés ARTURO y LUIS-SERRANO. Que pasen.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

LIENVOY-13 MAR 62

10:17 ALFREDO, mose de la Babajada Cabana, desde las oficinas du Prensa Latina dice a TERESA PROENZA que no ha podido recoger el bulto porque la persona que lo tiene no ha llegado. TERESA le ordena que lo espera, y que le diga a JARDON que ROGELIO tiene el material para Panorama Boonómico y que sande a una persona.

12:22 MAIZ comunica a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que LUCIO HERRERA está en la portería. ROGELIO irá a verlo.

13:16 MAIZ comunica a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que ahí está ma uuchacho que dice que viene de la Prepa 7 y dessa hablar con él. ROGELIO ordena que lo pases.

p-7365

Roychic Romacuez Lopy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Rogelio RDRIGUEZ Lopez

On WX 13 March, LITAINT-2 reported that Subject is living at Tscubaya # 74, Apartment# 503. Tel: 25-08-45. Subj is using an Edsel with *placas* D-314. On occasions Subj leaves his car in driveway and walks to Embassywor takes a cab.

CKS

FIIE: Rogelio RODRIGUZ L.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

CRITTO SECRET. DOES NOT APPLY. HANDLE AS SECRET CORRES.

DATE:
FRACALANCE!

INFO:

CITE: MERI 10295
12 Mar 162

TO GUATEMALA. (COPY): IT HAS PREVIOUSLY REPORTED THAT MEMBER OF HIS POS
IN MEXICO WERE UPSET BECAUSE THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT CONTACTED HIM IS ROPAMER CLOUP IN MEXICO INSTEAD OF DER HEY.)

1. ACCORDING TO MESSENGER, CONTACT WITH THE CUBAN COM/GOVERNMENT MESSENGER WAS MADE THROUGH ROUFLIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, THIRD SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY.

2. RODRIGUEZ WENT TO BERTA'S HOME AND SHOWED HIM A SMALL PIECE OF PAPER SIGNED "IBARRA".

NIECE

FIERA SAID THAT BERTA (FNU), WHO IS MARRIED TO HIS NIECE, RECENTLY SENT TO CUBA TO BORROW. WHEN CONTACT WAS ESTABLISHED WITH HIS CUBAN MESSENGER, IBARRA SAID THAT THE MESSENGER GAVE HIM THE MONEY AND TOLD HIM CASTRO WAS DELIGHTED TO LEARN THAT THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP IN MEXICO WOULD RETURN TO GUATEMALA TO HELP FIGHT. THE MESSENGER TOLD IBARRA THAT THE GROUP WOULD NOT HAVE TO ACCOUNT FOR THE MONEY, BUT COULD MAKE USE OF IT FOR PATRIOTIC MILITARY PURPOSES, AND THAT CASTRO HOPED THE GROUP WOULD BE SUCCESSFUL SO THAT HE COULD SEND IT OR GREATER ASSISTANCE.

5. MORENO, WHO HAS BEEN CHOSEN TO HEAD THE 13 NOVEMBER GROUP WHICH WILL GO TO GUATEMALA, HAS PROMISED TO SEND 419 FAMILY TO FRANCE AND HAS GIVEN SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS OF HIS CUBAN MONEY TO FINANCE THE TRIP. THE GROUP ALSO PLANS TO GIVE SIX HUNDRED DOLLARS TO BRAULIO PINEDA ILLERNA, GUATEMALAN COMMUNIST LIVING IN MEXICO, TO HELP COVER HIS

ORIG OFF:
LOCAL OFF:
RELEASING OFF:

DIST: SUBJ FILE:
COMMO
CHRONO

IT IS FORBIDDEN TO COPY OR REPRODUCE THIS MESSAGE

SECRET

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

12 de Marzo de 1962
INFORME #

RECTIFICACION DIRECCION SR. ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

INFORME: La dirección del señor Rogelio Rodriguez López es Calzada de Tacubaya # 74 Dto. 503, con teléfone 25-08-45.

En el interfón que corresponde a su departamento está el nombre de Diego Giolie.

COMENTARIO: señor Rogelio Rodriguez López traé el a-utomovil Essel, placa D-314, pero por lo regular va a la Embajada caminando ya que le queda a cuatro cuadras de su domicilie.

![signature]

![P-7365 Rozpin Rosaviny Lopez]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

12 de Marzo de 1962
INFORME #

## VECINOS DEL SENOR ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

**INFORME:** Los nombres que aparecen en el interfón del edificio marcado con el número 74 de la calzada de Tacubaya son los siguientes;

101 GESSELA 102 SRA. SPINDOLA

103 ARTURO LECARO B. 203 BARRAGAN

204 JOSE ARANDA 302 LEON RIVAS Jr.

304 JUAN HERNANDEZ 401 JUAN SAYAS

403 GUILLERMO MARTINEZ 404 JOSE GIOCOMAN

503 DIEGO GIOLIO 504 TORREZ

Hay muchos departamentos que no tienen nombre están ocupados pero no aparecen los nombres de las personas.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

9 de Marzo de 1962
INFORME #

LOCALIZACION DOMICILIO SR.ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ

INFORME: El señor Rogelio Rodriguez López vive en el departamento que ocupaba el señor Hector Pascual Gallo, Tacubaya #74 Dto con el teléfono 25-45-08

COMENTARIO Junto al departamento ocupado por el señor Rogelio Rodriguez López rentan un departamento, informan sobre 61,10-98-52 señor Joaquín.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# 7 March 1962

09:56 ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ suplica a YURI ALEXANDROV lo disculpe, por no poder asistir a la cita que tenían hoy. YURI estará de todos modos todo el día en la Embajada Soviética. ROGELIO, aunque sea tarde, puede pasar a verlo.

20:12 CALINDO OCHOA manifestó a ROGELIO que acaba de leer la crónica "y qué chinga les arringaste; tú tan decente que eres; chingaste a FIDEL, chingaste a RAUL, chisgaste a ALFONSO; no dejaste títere con cabeza". ROGELIO arguye que dejó a los dos buenos nada más. GALINDO dice "no la jodas; tú eres el decente; qué me espera con los demás!". ROGELIO pregunta qué dijeron. GALINDO dice que no dijeron nada, pero no hay que pasar estas cosas por alto "y además son mis asuntos". ROGELIO cambia el giro e indica que el General no fué a la clausura. GALINDO dice que no, que la clausuró el señor FERNANDEZ ALBARRAN JUAN. ROGELIO pregunta que si entonces se sujeta a los datos que ya tenía. GALINDO responde que sí, que solo agregue que fue clausurada a las 20:00 hs. por el Secretario General en representación del Presidente.

# 8 Mar 62

11:51 ESPEJEL preguntó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, de la Embajada Cubana, si puede pasar hoy a la Embajada a platicar con él, pues tiene algunas cosas interesantes que informarle. ROGELIO lo espera en el curso del día.

12:32 El portero MAIZ indicó que allí está un señor PIERRE buscando a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ. Este indica que lo dejen pasar.

13:55 El portero MAIZ indicó que están unos señores de la Revista "Expresión" de Sinaloa que quieren ver a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ. Este indicó que no los puede recibir hoy, que vuelvan otro día.

# 10 morel 1962

11:52 ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ comunicó a RAMIRO, a la Embajada Cubana en Brasil, que el domingo a las 3:00 hs. por Aerovias VARIG en vuelo 811 salen ENIO BENITEZ Y CAUDENCIO IMPERIAL, para que los vayan a esperar. RAMIRO queda enterado.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

RESUMEN
martes 6 marso 1962
2
preguntó si ya recibió los boletines. RICARDO dice que no y que desea pasar o la Rabajade. ROGELIO, después de meditar, manifiesta que mejor lo ve en el lugar de siempre a la misma hora. RICARDO le esperaré.

10a34 RICARDO, con acento centroamericano, se comunicó con ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ, de la Embajada de Cuba. Este immediatamente le

10:49 MAIZ, desde la portería de la Rabajada Cubana, indicó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que alli están uncs señores que vienen de La Normal y lo quieren ver porque traen un resado de ROQUE NEWTON ZA. ROGELIO indicó que los pase inmediatamente.

11:50 MAIZ, portero de la Ratajada Cubana, indicó a HOGELIO RODRIGUEZ que allí están unas personas que vienen a buscar una pelicula para la Federación Obrera Revolucionaria. ROGELIO le indics que los deje pesar.

P-7365
Rogrlio RODRIGUEZ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

12:17 MAIZ comunicó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que alli está el señor SIL-
VA que quiere hablar con él. ROGELIO indica que le pase.

13:30 JULIO CARMONA manifestó al Rabajador PORTUONDO que naisва за
le para Centroamérica, Honduras, Bicaragua y Qustenals, y do-

RESUMEN
martes 6 marzo 1962 5

ses saber si a PORTUONDO se le ofrece algo. PORTUONDO indica
que por el momento no, pero que llazie a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ
para ver si tiene algo.

14:56 ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ indicó a PARZ que por la tarde come a las
16:30 irán a buscarlo unas personas, "tú ya sabes", y que ne
va a estar porque tiene que ir al hotel a recoger a la señore
de LECHUGA. FARZ queda enterado.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

ENRAJADA CUBANA.- 14-42-37.

5-Marzo-62.

M11-L11.-

751.-

Entrada a las 1834hs.- HF HILARIO con HD Ana Luisa le pregunta por Rogelio.- Anat que salió para el aeropuerto, que si gusta dejar recado que ella se lo pasará.- Hilario: que le diga que desd en la mañana lo está buscando Hilario y que es una cosa urgente para hoy y que si quisiera hablarle por última vez a donde él ya sabe, que porque es una cuestión que no pueden dejar para otro día.--- 775.-

824.-

Entrada a las 1834hs.- HF Hilario con Rogelio le dice que tu vo que hacer uso de esta cosa por una urgencia; que el enfermo que vieron anoche que luego vió el al doctor y que le dijo que como la cosa es urgente y que no va a poder estar después que si era posible que hoy mismo a las ocho de la noche.- Rogelio: que va a ser imprescindible que sea una hora después a las nueve porque el enfermo se agravó hoy por la tarde.- Hilario: que si vió un recado que dejó.- Rogelio: quesi.- Hilario: que si ya sabe donde.. Rogelio: que sí, que va a ser una hora después. Hilario: que entonces va a buscar al amigo, que porque creyeron que era mejor la cosa de cerca y no de lejos.- Rogelio: correcto.- Hilari, que solucionan una serie de cosas que ellos tienen pendientes.---. Rogelio: de acuerdo. 847.-

....



P 7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

![photo of an old handwritten document with some faint sketches and text.]

Relacion que se hizo y del terreno

5. (Citi-Cochi)
   Paso del 4 de Mayo del presente año, 1888, a efecto de dar cumplimiento a la comision que se me confirio con fecha 29 de Abril proximo pasado para que proceda en compañia de los Ingenieros que nombre la Comision del pueblo para que unidos reconozcan las mojoneras del terreno que tiene en posesion el pueblo de Magdalena Tlatlauquitepec, que se dice ser las mismas que se deslindaron y amojonaron por el Ciudadano Jose Maria Sanchez en el año de 1837. Se me presentaron en la cabecera del pueblo de Magdalena, los Ingenieros nombrados que fueron los Sres. Don Joaquin Montesinos y Don Manuel Barrios y juntos procedimos a dar principio a los trabajos que se nos cometieron.

Dicha comision dio principio en el punto nombrado


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

Dianne Marguy fed

- P-7365

NEGATIVES

3/2/62

"P"- Rogelio Rodriquez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

En la casa de mi amade de spare
que quise tomar asi en min
#Diio asi, Rogelie que siriviera
asi en de
Deut que solo ven con Enbolijo de
Mindentamo
Bacacuma mas focal
masuanto soi despade de esto
die al menos que uno se titule de
Eduardo
Socialismo Buro ne-172
Secretario Buro en la paz Mundial
Petion esperto
Venceremos.
CON CEPA & SINCEA
VENECIERMOS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

16 Jul 62

Entrada 1127 del Banco Nacional de México con --
STOMARA para avisarlos quo llegaron las siguientes órdenes
de pago y pueden pasar a cobrarlas, Para al Embajador 6351-
Sr. ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ 350.80; Sr. LUIS GOMEZ 300,60; SIOMARA
300.60; Sr. CUENCA 408.75; Sr. PEDRO L. ROY ORTEGA 352.99; -
Embajada 50; Sr. EUSEBIO AZCUE 224.63; Sr. HECTOR GALLO
569.55 y Sr. RADULFO PAEZ PEREZ 300.80 dólares.
SIOMARA toma nota y dá las gracias. 459.-

27 Feb 62

del Sindicato de Electricistas, preguntó a ROGELIO
RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana, que si MAIZ, el portero, le
había entregado lo que le dejó. ROGELIO asintió y a su vez
preguntó a ESPEJEL que si ya había hablado con el compañero
PAEZ ESPEJEL dijo que nó, que no lo había visto.

RESUMEN
miércoles 28 febrero 1962

AJA, desde el Hotel Agnes, pidió a MAIZ, el portero de la Em-
bajada Cubana, que diga a RADULFO PAEZ que los dos asuntos
que tiene se los lleve ya al Hotel. Asimismo que diga a RO-
GELIO que se comunique con él desde luego. MAIZ pasará los
regados. -Ron Ricone. (1365) to his up.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY: Cuba/Mexico

SUBJECT: Travelers Using Cuban Diplomatic Passports

REPORT NO: 00-E-3,210,416

DATE DIST: 23 Feb 62

NO PAGES: Two

REFERENCES:

DATE OF INFO: Feb 1962 & earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ: - Feb 1962

SOURCE: Cuban national exiled in the US.

Source travels frequently to Central and Latin American countries.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation]

I received a letter from an army source in Mexico City advising of the arrival of travelers from Cuba in Mexico in late Jan and Jan 1962 whom are using Cuban diplomatic passports. By events he also included the names and dates of arrival of the aforementioned travelers as follows:

| NAME                  |
| --------------------- |
| Emerto L’ Castranat   |
| Emerto L’ Castrillo   |
| Ernesto M. Alvarez    |
| Fabio Roban           |
| Jose I. Diaz          |
| Humberto L. Gutierrez |
| Reina A.C.            |
| Jose Carmilo          |
| Jorge A. Vigo         |
| Fidelio Trojo         |
| Antonio Pena          |
| Esteban I. Gutierrez  |
| Jose Valeron          |
| Roberto Diaz          |
| Baly                  |
| Luisa C. Gomez        |
| Leonel Fes            |
| Trinidad Pinto        |
| Gloria P. Falcon      |
| Gustavo Falsar        |
| Lorollo P. Bernal     |
| Alejandro Bamberg     |
| Nicolat Mirechevich   |
| Indie Puitevento      |
| Jesus A. Garcia       |
| Jesus Alba            |

| PROFESSION |
| ---------- |
| Cobas      |
| Cano       |
| Cobas      |
| Dalace     |
| Palace     |
| Cobas      |
| Cobas      |
| Cobas      |
| Palace     |
| Cobas      |
| Mariana    |
| Faro       |
| Cobas      |
| Cobas      |
| Cobas      |
| Cobas      |
| Palace     |
| Jovence    |
| Polivicano |
| Cobas      |
| Faro       |
| Faro       |
| Yugoslavo  |
| Cubano     |
| Cubano     |

| ARRIVAL DATE |
| -----------: |
|       4 Ene. |
|       8 Ene. |
|      11 Ene. |
|      11 Ene. |
|      11 Ene. |
|      11 Ene. |
|      11 Ene. |
|      11 Ene. |
|      13 Ene. |
|      13 Ene. |
|      15 Ene. |
|      15 Ene. |
|      15 Ene. |
|      15 Ene. |
|      18 Ene. |
|      18 Ene. |
|      18 Ene. |
|      18 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |
|      21 Dic. |

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

ZAVILAM, Esther


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

Halara 18 di Felsmo 1962
"Años de la Planificación"

Sh Progel's Rodriguez

thi gundo abijade, me alegien que coindo sita llige a to manos estin en union de tulur, mostros bin. Rogelio mucha aliguia me dio gui mandara, il sihato, yo crba geu con tanto ama to hairas alvidado de mi. pro pro que no es asi, lo unico que con tu meve mero trabajo no te alcança el tempo para escribir, me a listu tamporo, ti voy a explicar lo dil nuevo trabajo, como tu estas riciin casado, one trenes un nuevo trabajo, que se llama arno. Rangelio

le dias a listu que lo que nosotros schallamos de los...aretes el dia zuu ucsban una carta por algun compañero luzoqni raza para esa, te il voy a mandar, para seu me to compun asi qui tingan cundade it ainir las cartas, sin mas resos de tu abuela que esta loca por po veiti pus casi hace un año que no to requisiers podi esente. to muchas cosas como la segunda declaración de la Babana, y lo exfiascade qu que est et publicado
en la segunda zahra del puisto, con char que gh la Halara a sühele para Camaguey un delesston d. 7.000 obreros, Fara el crth in care vos odves alardenason en su Dubajo fer in a cortar caña como velurtones, che in carnavale a don que

P73650


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

ha sido la mas grand que la habido in Ada
porgu, ahora les lavozas no son comercials..
sine la intigran los 25 sindicatos de diuba....

anti de pizar la canoza para la comparsa.
geu la intigran la olivos a la cual firtina
cha la canoza, geminivas que pudieras va a tres.........
douros barlunde al compas de sus orquestas y
conjunto, acals deiullas comparsas, du
nigros solos, quu sizulata con la botulla de aguan
dient en la mare y acalaba.a pinatadas..
ne to cause me pous te stes muy oupane, sin
ma nabe el casino casins de tu tra que te quiire cona a.
un An

Rogelio dia to padino que lo unico qль
guun, s. que le marcis in ritrato tuzo que...
se na brin la cara...

saluda a Aster de mi part no le divia mantor
ri saludos tan siguin en dos meses no mand
timdo in glos litica para mí, saludos de.
o de Carlite


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

Francisco Marquez, 166 26/2/62

NEGATIVES

21

Rogelius Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

Anis de la Inamfecion

Halina 18 de Fiater 1862...

Spl
Rogelio Rodriguez
Sus Grandes chefen

senter ou al reteles
guterlilies ise encuntion sen
de salud
metno tiem
Foyeler secde la retrate ertas
de la mar izm

face over delyoule ferr se
Le re izs
maia me Liese el retrate de
X.A zela de A. anos comu
y de le mos sartufecte
se namreh se sretulerum
les la chiar
Lones
se prafure da ilase oli
serena yume de bayar techer
fin disse se
Lたしてメンta intumade

23
P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

dial Inchie
sabi la colara qui...
me da el sabe que bes...
a see padre
para gen la erta come
se precerie los dois
dime con se encuentra
estar de calar
M de hoy as a dier sada
en las costas a mumi des
de que le foro a quistio
sala que wee a mustu
salas que la limona
esta de de mas dramas
4 driclono
Segun is orcanole de le
pareconde man n.1
laume se confodi de histan
sea madre que no se
olhida me sin role momente
Con un aliore 2: fur
Linia

![Number three]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

Paria Esfuerte

Enclaremos

Esde nuestra Poblacion

2º Avalista

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

Francisco Marquez 160

23

26/3/62

NEGATIVES

Roger Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

2 February 1962

10:50 ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana, informó a HECTOR ANA de Prensa Latina, sobre la llegada del Diputado brasileño XLIAO, quien va de paso para La Habana.

RESUMEN domingo 11 febrero 1962

18:15 LONCIO CABATAS dijo ser muy amigo del cubano MANUEL GUILLOT, supo que éste había llegado hoy a la ciudad de México en el vuelo de Canadian Pacific. ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana manifestó que él no sabía que GUILLOT tuviera amigos mexicanos, pero informó que efectivamente GUILLOT se encuentra en México, solo que no en esos momentos allí en la Embajada. CABATAS dejó su domicilio, sito en Lorenzo Coturini # 111 Bajos, casi esquina con I. la Católica, aunque indicó que posteriormente volverá a llamar para ponerse en contacto con GUILLOT. (Este tal vez sea miembro de la Embajada de Cuba que se encontraba en Argentina).

6 February 1962

10:44 ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada de Cuba manifestó al SR. ES de Prensa. Valoró, que es urgente que hoy por la mañana pase a la Embajada, pues tiene material que entregarle. ESTREZATZ estará a las 12:00 hs..

17 Feb 62

10:32 RAUL NESTOR FUENTES pidió comunicarse con el cubano ROGELIO. ROGELIO de momento no sabe quién es. NESTOR le indica que él debe tener por allí una tarjeta. ROGELIO le pregunta que si es el asunto de los muchachos. NESTOR dice que si, que él es el encargado de ése. ROGELIO le indica que entonces esté todo arreglado. NESTOR pregunta que si llegaron ellos hoy allí, "pues yo llegué a las nueve de la mañana, es que dieron una misión, un encargo de recoger una documentación". ROGELIO dice "ya fueron a buscarte allá, fué uno de los muchachos". NESTOR contesta "entonces me voy de la casa porque ése estoy esperando precisamente".

15:30 MANUEL, del Sindicato Mexicano de Electricistas, manifestó que le tiene ROGELIO de la Embajada de Cuba, que le tiene a le mando MARIANO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

:

> [Figure] Envelope of letter with stamp.

La Paz, Bolivia 13 de Febrero 1980

Savalio Ratripies Perera
Verien V. P.

Recordado Regalitos, por pura casualidad caute todo lo encontrado, me retire. De promesa y me dijo lo escribe a estf mas ais letras portadoras de sabidurfa uforte el hermano temano que ioro on Camiri y fonde el Santico mas recuerds.

Para to prescntrate, tu esposa é hijos, minirse mwy bien,pre ahora ias caies es aliinacion boca, y siem-pre superando, ahora tienes que padecor los hijos.

Si to accrdas de esta,liena, mas

Dia fue toro ta mascina lenses ? dice que mas de cambio, la alama amonton’a,las vienas difrcultades que td le dejoste,le reste siempre bolicses y desatoniiosca.

To algo ireal, trabajo es umorevista come Sub- Director,para déte este dos negros, ester toro promete es nuevo libros,pera no te relajaste,te hace llegar pius claro que of in destinco.

Per la dada de estas latias llegarena a
ca destinco si te no recuerdrras, en in final teniendo unos carriles y atres al puede asta ahora que estee on lacha fuvrte y Aeciplcal,siempre te permana to vereda.

77365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

Francisco Marquez 166

19/2/62

NEGATIVES

22

"P" Regis Porízez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of East, Monterrey

INFO: Chief, AllDivision

FROM: Cavet of Station, Mexico Oliy

SUBJECT: *Jose Arturo DE LA PENA*

REFERENCE:

SECRET

HMMA-18537
50-300-3-

2 February 162

1.  LIENVOY (B) reported that Jose Arturo DE LA PENA had been trying to reach Rogelio RUBRIQUES Lopez, Cuban Third Secretary, on 20 January. Since is was unable to reach RODRIGUEZ, he left a message to the effect that he was leaving Mexico City and on his return he would give the address to which they should send the laformation Builen of the Cuban Embassy. He said the pressure is a "Ittth strong here, since yesterday (19 January) they were pleklag up all that left the embassy news-papers and all that" and for that reason be did not go in. He sald that he was taking several coples of i: 4 of de Laformation Ballet in to Coshulla, but that he also wanted No. 5 watch contained Information about scholarsрз.

2.  Station would appreclean: any Information Monterrey may have on DE LA PENA.

Willard C. CURTIS

1 February 1962

Distribution:

2- Monterrey

2-AHD

2- Flies

1- Chrono

1-60-9-3-3

DRCassavetis/cme

![signature P-7365]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

11 January 1962.

IPS de Prensa Latina, manifestó a ROGELIO de la Fe de Cubana, que hoy por la tarde irá a la Embajada para charlar con él.

17 Jan. 1962.

SPEJEL, del Sindicato Mexicano de Electricistas, manifestó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada de Cuba, que tiene una carta que le envió de allá, y que dentro de la carta, viene otra dirigida a ROGELIO. Este le pide que se la pase a dejar a la portería.

20 Jan. 1962

16:56 JOSE ARTURO DE LA PEÑA ha estado tratando con insistencia en ponerse en contacto con el cubano ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, y al no encontrarle le deja recado en el sentido de que le va a escribir para que le manden el boletín de información de Cuba, pues él va a salir fuera de la ciudad, pero cuando regrese le dará la dirección para que se lo manden, porque está la presión un poco fuerte aquí, pues ayer estaban recogiendo todo lo que salía de la Embajada, periódicos y todo éso, y por eso él no entró. Agrega que lleva a Coahuila varios boletines del número 4 de información sobre Cuba, pero que también quiere el número 5 donde viene información sobre las becas. OLGA toma el recado y se lo pasará a ROGELIO.

20 Jan 1962

10:04 HECTOR GALLO pidió a GLORIA que a como de lugar despierte a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ pues el Embajador PORTUONDO ordenó que "todos estemos aquí y falta ROGELIO". GLORIA cumplirá con el encargo.

26 Jan. 1962

11:55 PUENTE, quien ayer llegó de Tamaulipas, Tampico, y que así se lo hizo saber al c. Lombardo diciendo que ya traía el dinero para comprarle los dos pasajes de ida y vuelta, sábado y domingo próximos respectivamente, informó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que tienen organizada allá una exposición fotográfica con las fotos aquellas que le regalaron en el Palacio Presidencial de La Habana y desea que ROGELIO le proporcione boletines "y otras cosas" para repartirlas allá (Tampico). ROGELIO le indica su conformidad y le pide pase a la Embajada a recogerlas.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

22 December 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

FROM: LUPuckett

SUBJ: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (P-7365)

1.  Subject was under LIEMBRACE surveillance on 20, 21, and 23 October 1961 (see surveillance reports in F-7365 which should have been routed to COS by Hazlett) with no conclusive results re student contacts.

2.  The surveillance was cancelled (see reports) because of the continud presence of Mexican Secret Service agents and vehicles in the area of the Cuban Embassy a problem which has plagued our surveillance attempts for months. Consequently, the team has not been able to mount a prolonged surveillance at the Cuban mbassy.

3.  After 1 Juanuary 1962 the team can make another attempt on subject if so desired by the Chief of Station.

Distribution:
Orig P-7365
1 cc LITE SCR P-
1 cc Cuban mbassy Activities
1 cc UNAM
1 cc Humberto RCKRO P-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez P-

22 December 19ól

1. On 2 October 1961 Lic. Humberto ROMERO, private Secretary to President Adolfo LOPEZ Mateos told me that the President was very concerned about a Cuban "from the Cuban Embassy" who spends considerable time at the U.N.A.M. working amongst students there. ROMERO did not name.

2. I asked SHYROCK who said this was probably Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez. The attached concerns ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ Lopez.

3. SHYROCK told me that as of 16 October 1961 Tex would put Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez under surveillance; but, as of 22 December 1961, I have received nothing.

Distribution:
Orig w/att - Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez P-
1 - LITENSOR P-
1 - Cuban Embassy Activities
1 - U.N.A.M.
1 - Humberto ROMERO P-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

- Thin the character to remove in locker

13:15 Un individuo que dijo ser el Secretario General del Grupo JO SE MARTI, pidió peliculas, propaganda y boletines para repartir entre los alumnos de la Preparatoria. ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Babajada Cubana, indicó que para hablar de eso es prefeFrible que se llegue a las oficinas de la Embajada. Así lo hará.

11 Ост 61

LIENVOY

Rogelio Romeoviz Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

FBI doe.
19 Dec 61 (Wach.)
Re: Foreign Political Matters.
No Bufile given


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# INTELLIGENCE REPORT

NOTE: This document 11sted of rerioted of r
its to be published or cited as evidenco in a
ourt of law unless authorization is first ob
tained from the Assistant Chief of staff for In
telligence, Department of the Army.

This document contains information affect
ing the National Defense of the United
States within the meaning of the Espionage
Laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793 and 794, the
transmission or revelation of which in any
manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited
by law.

UNCLASSIFIED

NO. 19

COUNTRY: MEXICO

SUBJECT: Cuban Diplomat (?) Disarmed

DATE OF REPORT: 17 December 1961

NO. OF PAGES: One

DATE OF INFO:
3 December 1961

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.: Mexico City, 9 December 1961

EVALUATION: B-2

SOURCE: Local Press (Excelsior)

FROM: USARMA MEXICO
PREPARED BY: LtCol A.W. Gunn, GS
R-SERIES NO.: R-308-61

A young third secretary of the Cuban Embassy was disarmed by an assort- ment of Mexican law enforcement personnel. The fracas occurred 8 December 1961 at the International Airport.

DISTRIBUTED BY ORIGINATOR: AI-A/NA, POLR/Irb, POL, USARCARIB, 4th Army

1. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ, a third secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, was disarmed at Mexico's International Airport on 8 Dec 1961.

2. The fracas apparently started over the documentation of a diplomatic courier, one Fernando ALONSO Castillo, by the emigration agent who was processing Cubana de Aviación's flight 465, outbound for Havana. RODRIGUEZ threatened the courier and harsh words ensued. Before it was all over totals of Emigration, special agents of Interior, and the Federal Judicial Police took parts. In the melee it was discovered that both Cubans were carrying concealed pistols. The Judicial Police confiscated the weapons. The affair ended with RODRIGUEZ threatening to return armed the following Tuesday and declaring, "We'll see if you take my pistol then."

COMMENT: The following Tuesday (12 Dec) has come and gone with no similar incident reported.

3. The rank and file Mexican is no longer enchanted with his Cuban banter. CASTRO's defiant pronouncement of his true color stripped away the last vestige of respectability his government may have had in the eyes of Mexico's intellectuals (c. politically speaking).

4. The police probably enjoyed the encounters.

APPROVED:
![signature of approving officer]
Brigadier General, GS
Army Attache

UNCLASSIFIED

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

4

17:37

Fecha 14 diciembre 1971

"X" dijo a JARDON que a Rivera dijo a n. c. que
gusto del loco y lo sacó de apuros. $1000:20 por el momento.
NOCURSO no puede ir, como me parece. JARDON le pregunta que si quie-
re que salga conmigo para allá ahora, por que trae el tiempo
muy limitado y tiene algunas otras cosas que tratar "además
de la de allí de ustedes", a ver si es posible que se vaya
al mismo. $Rivera$ no lo espera.

18:03

NOTICURSO manifestó a JARDON que acaba de llegarle el
reporte que el General fue baleado, aunque él espera for-
malmente que no se confirme dicho rumor. JARDON pregunta
que cuál General ha de $¿¿¿$ el que verifique la noticia él que
en su momento pregunté a importantes gentes. Posteriormente JARDON
preguntó a RIVERA si era cierto que el General había
sido objeto de atentado. RIVERA dijo que era falso, pero
al preguntar JARDON que si él podía informarlo a los compa-
ñeros de la prensa, RIVERA respondió que mejor lo consultará
con el General y posteriormente llamará a JARDON.

16:17

El Gal. CAANDENS pregunté a RAIMUNDO JARDON qué hay de la no
ticia que le dimos. JARDON indica que le hablaron los com-
pañeros del diario la Prensa, preguntándole, qué había de un
supuesto atentado que CAANDENS sufrió, en el cual había muer-
to uno de sus ayudantes. CAANDENS dice que inventos de éstos
hay todos los días, pues "estamos vivitos y coleando absolu-
tamente y calificado en todas partes sin que nadie nos colus-
tase". JARDON manifiesta haberle dicho a FUENTES, a quien en-
cargaron que investigaran este asunto, que le parecía absurdo, po-
ro de todas maneras pidió a RIVERA que consultara ésto con el
General, para que cuando lo vuelvan a llamar, decirles que es
completamente falso. CAANDENS le indica "cuando lo vuelvan
a llamar, hay que decirles a éllos que ya habló conmigo y
que es conveniente se los diga a los que están inventando
ésto que dénos consideren (ellos que yo en lo personal pueda
tener algún peligro era ir sin acompañamiento ninguno a esa
ecuela; pues en el pueblo quiero éso ni hay ninguna desconfian-
za de uno mismo ni miedos a creer que se cuida uno de algo;
hay que decirlo a sus llamados compañeros de la prensa,
pero no con actitud de compañero". Ambos: se ríen.
JARDON cambian de tema e indica al General que tiene unos do-
cumentos que le interesa conocerles; que si se los manda o
manda venir de Caendes. CAANDENS indicará a
Villamil que vaya ahora a Prensa Latina.

20:15

De Nueva York, Ilamaron a RAIMUNDO JARDON los siguientes mensa-
jes: Juan Sierra de Miami, Presidente de Cuba: "aquí estoy pregun-
tando cable 212-9 en Miami 371-42 en Sevilla 227-11. Ojalá nos lle-
gasen todos estos cables que esperamos como agua de mayo. Sa-
ludos."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

13 December 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

FROM :

SUBJECT: Probable Transfer of Ramiro del Rio Perez

1. On 12 December 1961, LITAMIL-2 told me that Chelo Esperon, Cuban Embassy secretary, had been told by Jose Antonio Portuondo, Cuban Ambassador to Mexico, that he had succeeded in getting Subject out of the Cuban Embassy. LITAMIL-2 also reported information from Esperon that Portuondo was arranging a secret meeting with Ricardo Vidal, former Cuban Embassy Counselor, prior to his Mexican defection.

2. Source comment: With the removal of Subject and the possible removal of third secretary, Rodrigues, who was recently involved in a pistol-toting incident at the airport, Portuondo may feel the necessity of discussing the current Cuban Embassy personnel situation with Vidal, who is a veteran Cuban diplomat.

3. Station comment: There is also the possibility that Portuondo may wish to try to use Vidal to obtain oil for Cuba. Portuondo has recently been exhausting all sources in an effort to obtain oil.

Distribution:

1 - P-Ramiro del Rio Perez

1 - P-Jose Antonio Portuondo

1 - P-Roberto Rodriguez

1 - P-Ricardo Vidal

1 - JMZIP/III

1 - Cuban Embassy Activities


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

# MEXICAN BRIEFS...

CUBA

two Interior Department agents yesterday had to
CONTINUED ON PAGE 9A

beat two Cuban diplomats into submission during a violent scuffle at the airport when the latter refused to give up their guns.

Claiming diplomatic immunity courier Fernando Alonso and Cuban embassy Third Secretary Roacha Rodriguez vociferously turned down a request from the Mexican agents to turn in the guns they were brandishing publicly obligating these to use force

The shouting and scuffling created a near panic among the Havana bound passengers on Cuban's flight.

The gun toting costumes said all diplomats in Cuba not only are allowed to carry guns but that the Cuban government itself provides them

A nicer rose inti society


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# RESUMEN
viernes 8 diciemora 1961 6

cuando acepten algunas sugerencias y reformas substanciales que es necesario introducir. AQUILAR está de acuerdo en ello y se comunicará la semana entrante con CASTILLO para hacer le su conocimiento lo que rescivió el Comité Nacional.

15:10 Kl Corl, RANGEL ESCANILLA informó al Lic. DIAZ ORDAZ que hoy desde la dies horas hubo un pare de los maestros de la Sección 35, en Saltillo, por falta de pago de sueldos. Que di cho pare continuará indefiniianente. Además un incidente que
se registró en el Aeropuerte en el que tomaron parte ROGELIO RODRIGUES de la Babajada de Caba y el Correo Diplomático FERNANDO ALONSO quiénes pretendieron entrar armados. Loe agentes do #igración al notar esto, los desarmaren no sin antes tener un forcejeo con éllos.

8 Dic 61

17:20 El Ing. JORGE L. TAMAYO preguntó a su cuñada GELA qué le pereció a su cónyuge JOSE ALBERTO el nombramiento del General CARDENAS, ya que no lo quiere nada ni es santo de su ders- ción. GELA responde que ya no trata esas cosas con JOSE AL- BERTO porque siempre están en desacuerdo. TAMAYO ve este asunto desde muchos ángulos de vista y cree que tiene mucha importancia desde el ángulo de la mala jugada que le hicie ron al Gohisrne Brasil, Ecuador, Uragasy y Argentina de re- jarse a la hora de la votación en la OEA. Entonces el Go- bierno necesitaba apoyo y TAMATO cree que ésa fué la inten ción del General CARDENAS al aceptar el cargo del Gobierno, porque éso se lo habían ofrecido hace 3 años. GELA dice que si, y que no no se le habían dade. TAMAYO rectifica en el sentido de que CARDENAS no lo había aceptado, y de la nochs a la mañana lo aceptó y entonces & PAMAYO le parece que fu en función de la situación internasional. A GELA le dió a cho gusto, pues le parece que es una de las cosas que DOOCL- tabá el Gobierno, un puntalito, porque con el General no 89 juega. Asimismo le parece que los demás ni fu ni fa. PANA- 1O a ese respecto comenta que fué requisito que pidió el Go- neral, que llamaran a todos. Claro que a los otros les die.. ron cosas simbólicas y en realidad el que fué a una posición de importancia fué el General CARDENAS.

17:43 ELSHA VILEX Secretaria del Lic. AGUILAR dejó recado para la Sra. CLEMENTINA BASSOLS, en el sentido de que hoy a las 20:00 hs en el despacho del Ing. CUAURTENOC CARDENAS será la reunión del Comite Nacional.

18:25 FEDERICO BARRKHA FUKETES comentó con FRANCISCO GALINDO OCHOA qua éate ahora si tiene mucho material, preguntándole a la res qué opinión tiene de los nombramientos. GALINDO respande que buena. FEDERICO dice que no hay más que un error de abi- cación en el asunto de la pesca, pues éso le quita valer a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

# RESUMEN
viernes 1 diciembre 1961

los 20,000. MOTOR contesta que 9,000, pero que tuvieron que recortar lo de quién invitaba. RENATO pregunta que si ahí les van a servir. MOTOR dice que sí y que se reportaron, pero supone que todavía habrá en Salvador. De todos modos hay que ver eso, porque parece que no se llevaron todo lo que habían hablado. RENATO tiene todavía, y sólo quería informarle qué lugar y qué fecha. El sábado se ven allá.

14:22 ELENA VASQUEZ GOMEZ preguntó a MAIZ, el portero de la Embajada Cubana, que si no ha regresado TERESA PROENZA todavía, porque aqui la están esperando en Fundición, 8, y la señora dice que TERESA iba a ir pricevo a la Embajada Norteamericana. Que por favor en cuanto llegue, le diga que la están esperando en esa dirección. MAIZ comenta que si TERESA fué a la Embajada Norteamericana, a lo mejor alli ya la degollaron. ELENA se rie de la ocurrencia.

14:37 El Ing. JORGE LEYVA recomendó a su hijo el Lic. JORGE que ahora se vaya a la casa lo espere, porque quiere hablar con él, pero que procure que la cosa no sea muy ostentosa, pues no quiere que de ésto se dé cuenta su esposa MARTA. Que el Ingeniero irá disimuladamente a su redención y luego suba JORGITO en la misma forma, pues le urge hablarle.

14:59 El Embajador FORTUONDO puso el siguiente cable a CHAUSTEGUI, Embajador de Cuba ante la CNU en Nueva York: "Favor SOUSA espere compañeros TALAVERA Y RODAS, Delegados CIES llegarán vuelo 400 Aeronaves México seis horas mañana sábado"

16:11 POSADA, Consul de Cuba en Veracruz, desde el Puerto creo dijo ROGELIO FERRER, de la Embajada Cubana, que dentro de un rato sale para Tampico, las 18:00 hs., y pregunta que si allí en la bajada tienen alguna información que llevar para allá, manden a alguien con ella y él se encargará de hacerla llegar a aquella gente o que si quisieren decirle algo vaya alguno al Aeropuerto a verlo. ROGELIO manifiesta que tratará de ir con otro compañero de allí de la Embajada.

19:00 De parte de preguntaron por el lie. CARASCO, manifestandose que es urgente. En el despacho de AGUI IMR se informó que se encontraba en las oficinas de Salvador 80 y se les proporcionó el número de teléfono.

19:52 Un individuo no identificado preguntó a la oficina comercial de la Embajada Cubana, por VILLAVERDE de Culiacán, quien vive alli en la bajada, en comunicación, eso expresó el individuo. Y va en comunicación, eso expresó el individuo. Que no va ni a la Unión, ni al Partido.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

Norman LAINFIETA

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO. 2-7:16

SOURCE DOC SYMBOL NO. memo. from W.il. Soott

DATE 29 Nov 61

ANALYST DATE PROCESSED DISSEMINATED IN DATE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

Contact of Subject, while he, subject was in Mexico.

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. P-7365

FORM NO. 867 REPLACES FORM 847. 1 AUG 54
1 MAY 56 AND FORM 137 WHICH ARE OBSOLETE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

RESUMEN
miércoles 22 noviembre 1961
2

11:55 FUENTE preguntó al cubano RODRÍGUEZ que si ha habido algo, pues a él lo fueron a buscar de parte de un señor RODOLFO RO RO de la Habana y FUENTE no sabe si es cierto o le quieren tender una trampa, porque parece que ya le andan pisando los talones, por lo del Movimiento de Liberación, y entonces quiere saber si allí en la Embajada tienen información sobre las personas que llegan, a ver si este señor RODOLFO RO RO está aquí o vino antes. ROGOLIO le sugiere que mejor llame al Consulado de Cuba, aunque desde luego "no sabemos quién sea ese señor". FUENTE mejor va a hablar con el señor de la Cubana de Aviación, además de que va a ponerse más abusado.

12:20 El Lic. AGUILAR manifestó al Ing. HEBERTO CASTILLO que lo ha estado llamando en virtud de que recibió un telegrama de los compañeros de Poza Rica, quienes tienen interés en saber en definitiva quiénes van y cuando estarán allá, además de que en el telegrama indican con quien ponerse en contacto allá. AGUILAR agrega que precisamente está aquí ahora NACHO ACOSTA y con él va a precisar los nombres para así telegrafiarles a aquellas gentes, pues parece que con los mismos cinco elementos inicial- mente propuestos. HEBERTO dice que parece que se incorpora también MACHINE. AGUILAR a su vez manifiesta que ACOSTA indica la posibilidad de que también vayan dos o tres petrole- ros de la Secc. 35, y eso sería muy útil. HEBERTO no puede precisar quienes son, no obstante que el sábado estuvieron tra- tando ese asunto con los petroleros. AGUILAR dice queel acto será el sábado a las 20:00 hs. HEBERTO le recalca que la comi- sión estará integrada por el Lic. CALDERON, el Lic. CASTILLEJOS Ing. SANTOS BASURTO, NACHO AGUIRRE, Sra. CASTILLEJOS, el propio HEBERTO y los dos o tres petroleros.

12:45 El Ing. MARROQUIN con una risa servil, dijo al Lic. SILVA HERZOG que vé con agrado que lo aceptaron como colaborador de la re- vista Política. SILVA asiente agregando que fueron muy genti- les. Cambiando de tema TAMAYO indica que le mandará un ejem- plar de la revista Hoy en la que le hicieron una entrevista para contestar a ORI.

13:04 ANTONIO ARGÜELLES, de la CTAL, envió el siguiente telegrama a CONSEJO, Sindicato Nacional a Nicoténeath, 111-A en Saltillo Coahuila:
"Estamos organizando salida Delegación día 29 por Sabena. Urgenos conocer nombres y número delegados para reservación viaje. Usted y otros delegados deben estar aquí más tardar próximo lunes 27. Saludos".

13:24 ANTONIO ARGÜELLES, de la CTAL, envió el siguiente cable a Secretario de la CRO de La Habana, Cuba:
... fecha salida avión especial agradeciéndo-

P 7315


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

RESUMEN
viernes 17 noviembre 1961

sue lo ha obligado a aumentar el tiraje. Efectivamente AGUI
no había extralindo de ver el nombre de BRRAMONTE en una
ruricia de estas pentes que siempre se han distinguido por
sms ataques y su hostilidad, pero no obstante eso acepta escri
Vir el articulo que BRRAUNONTE le pide, a petición de JJLIO
SAREZ GARCIA.

11:23 Un individuo desconocido pidió a la revista Política que man-
de un fotógrafo y un reportero a la calle de liorte 46 A, cer-
ca de La Villa de Guadalupe, donde están siendo golpeados
unos ferrocarrileros, por grancieros, que trataren de apode -
rarse de unos furgones para vivir. JOSE LUZ note toó
nota y verá quede hacer.

11:35 JACITO, tal como se lo había indicado el Gral CDZ
se reportó con éste para informarle que está ahí con el,
una comisión de campesinos que quieren que los reciba. CARDE
MAS indica que lo hará la semana entrante y lazenta no poder
saludar más ampliamente a JACINTO.

11:45 ARROYO CH. citó urgentemente al Corl. RANGEL ESCAMILLA, en
su oficina.

11:46 ROGELIO SELLIO, contacto de JULIO COUTTOLEIC con el Sr. P.
COMM Corporation de Los Angeles California, en el asunto
de cierta cantidad de arros que va a comprarse para la Imbaja
da de Cuba, preguntó a URBISTA qué han resuelto sobre el par-
ticuler. URBIETA indicó que CUMICA necesita tener la muestra.

12:15 MIJAILOV de la Embajada Rusa, de acuerdo con la invitación
que lo hizo ALL AICERA PANSETEL CHIZ para pasar este fin de semana
en la casa de COTI, en Cuernavaca, quedó de pasar por élla
el próximo domingo a las 09:00 hs.

12:40 De parte del Corl. RANGEL ESCAMILLA transfirieron una comida
para el miércoles próximo, entre aquél y el Sr. GABRIIELAR.

12:40 El Cubano ROGELIO RODRICAPL apunió que en la Valija diplomá
tica de hoy, ya se fue "eso", que son seis bultos, y va con
sinado al Ministerio de Comercio Exterior, y los recibirá
en el Aeropuerto el Sr. C.RMD, Dier. JARDON a su
vez informa que "ya tenemos la entrevista", está picosa
( seguramente se trata da un entrevista con SADO TOLEDANO
SCCMERRAS).

12:54 argentino contacto del la mbaja

When ilter y es e.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SOURCE:         (P-?)
DATE: Monday, 23 October, 1961
FILE:

SUBJECT: Surveillance of Rogelio Lopez

0900- On duty at subject's home

1027- He came out of home and walked to Cuban embassy, going in through consulate door on Marquez and Zamora.

1252- Car 446 came out of embassy; SUBJECT and three men in it.

1256- They arrived at Hotel Agnes on Saltillo street and one of the men went inside.

1302- Trunk of car was seen to be open....

1309- Man came out of hotel and they drove off.

1326- They arrived at International section of airport and took out several bags from trunk of car; they then went into Mexicana de Aviacion ticket counter.

1405- SUBJECT said hello to red faced man who used to live at hotel on Azueta street; he helped put this man's bags in car 446; man apparently had just arrived...

1409- SUBJECT and other Cubans went into restaurant; they also had taken bags to car...

1417- They came out of restaurant and SUBJECT said hello to two Russians who had arrived at airport in car no. 86.

1419- SUBJECT said hello to three students... They were apparently Cubans also.

1420- SUBJECT said goodbye, then went into waiting room no. 4.

1515- SUBJECT came out of waiting room accompanied by one of the Russians; this man was seen at airport with other men and woman, apparently all Russians.

1517- SUBJECT and Russian drove off in car 86; two men and a woman who had been seen with Russian also left in 1961 Ford, plates 141.

1539- SUBJECT and Russian arrived at subject's home; SUBJECT got off car and went into home, but cane out immediately and walked off. Car 36 drove off... (Russian in it has been seen often in this car-long, blond hair; long nose; horn-rimmed glasses).

1542- SUBJECT went into small store, "La Jalisiense", Marquez and Zamora.

1545- He came out af store, and went into Cuban embassy through main gate; it was noticed


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

at this time that there were two patrol cars in front of embassy, and two other cops on foot in armea... One patrol car left soon after this, and the two cops were also relieved by three new ones...

1615- Off duty; police car was again parked at corner of Marquez and Tacubaya, making dispatching difficult, while three cops on foot roamed area around Marquez street; a dark blue 1955 Dodge, (secret service), plates no. 10-75 was seen cruising by, once on Zamora and the other time on Tacubaya; both times going by Cuban embassy; five men in it, very much the "agente" type...

(No police car was seen at Pussian embassy today).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

SOURCE: II.T.W.M. (202)

DATE: Saturday, 21 October, 1961

FILE:

SUBJECT: Surveillance of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

0900- On duty at subject's home, Pachuca 155.

1023- SUBJECT came out of home and bought newspaper at corner of Pachuca and Marquez.

1035- He went into Cuban embassy.

1045- SUBJECT came out of embassy accompanied by a young man with very clean-cut features.

1049- They took cab at Marquez and Tacubaya.

1057- They got off at.corner of Reforma and D. Guerra.

1058- They went into offices of Cubana de Aviacion. Reforma 56.

1103- They came out.

1110- They took "peso" cab going down town at corner of Morelos and Reforma and were lost when team cars were not in position to follow...

Cheched all known addresses with negative results.

1215- On duty at Cuban embassy and at subject's home.

1445- Off duty; SUBJECT was not seen again and now there were two police cars in front of Cuban embassy, making dispatching there extremely difficult.

NOTE: Team leader has noticed police cars on duty at all times at the Cuban, Russian, Check and Dominican Republic embassies... This has been going on for a couple of weeks.

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

SOURCE:

DATE: Friday, 20 October, 1961

FILE:

SUBJECT: Surveillance of Rogelio Kimura Lopez

0900- On duty at Pachuca 153 and at Cuban embassy.

0958- SUBJECT came out of no. 153.

1000- He went into store, "La Jalicience", Zamora and Marquez...

1004- He came out with another man.

1005- Other man opened door to consulate office and they both went inside.

1035- SUBJECT and man who lives at Tacubaya 74 came out of embassy.

1035- They took cab at Marquez and Tacubaya and picked up another man at doorway to embassy.

1357- They arrived at international section of airport and went inside, but were lost...

1503- SUBJECT came out of airport with two men plus another who apparently arrived in a flight... These three drove off in a cab and SUBJECT went back inside.

1505- He met man from no. 74 and another and they all went into restaurant.

1528- They came out and went to American Airlines counter, then walked off,

1618- After just walking around, SUBJECT and othet two came out and drove off in car 385 that was waiting outside.

1640- They arrived at Cuban embassy and went inside.

1749- SUBJECT came out driving car 446 with another man in front seat.

1750- They arrived at gas station, Marquez and Mazatlan.

1754- They drove off.

1817- They arrived at international section of airport again and went inside.

1919- They went into restaurant.

1942- They came out.

1943- They spoke to employee at Real Aerovias Brazil counter.

1844- They went into international platform no. 2.

1950- They came out accompanied by a man and woman; they went to Aerovias Brazil counter again, then walked out.

1955- SUBJECT and other man drove off in car 446; couple drove off in a green Volkswagen


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

with plates no. 10-13-58.

1928- SUBJECT and other man arrived at Cuban embassy and drove inside.

2050- SUBJECT came out of embassy with man from Tacubaya 74; they immediately took cab in front of embassy and were lost..... Team members dispatching did not advise in time.

2100- Off duty. Checked known gun shop with negative results...

NOTE: SUBJECT was lost at 2050 hrs. due to bad dispatching conditions around Cuban embassy; teanhas been forced to dispaten on foot away from cars. Car are left out of sight of embassy, as there is usually at least one police car at corner of Marques and Tacubaya; there was one at this time... Also, there is usually a cop on foot roaming around area of Marquez corner with Zamora...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

101. Entrada.- HP premunta por ROGELIO RODRIGUES.
     que hablo el lunes.- 104.-

Entrada.- HF de parte compañeros ferrocarrileros, pregunta por ROGELIO SIOMARA, que hable el lunes. 174.-

11 oct 61
13:15 Un individuo que dijo ser el Secretario General del/cano JOSE MARTI, pidió películas, propaganda y boletines para repartir entre los alumnos de la preparatoria de la Embajada Cubana, indicó que para hablar de eso es preferible que se llegue a las oficines de la Embajada. así lo hará.

17 oct. 61
Entrada a las 0958hs.- HD Villamar pregunta por Roberto Frías. Teresa: que quien es Roberto Frías.- Villa: que así le dijo Rogelio que llamara.- que si no está del Río.- Teresa: que no sabe.. Villa: que más tarde llama.--- 63.-

20 oct 61
010. Salida ROGELIO.Avisa a ELEAZER MORALES de Prensa Latina, que hoy llega la gente a las 6 de la tarde; que los compañeros del Congreso de Arquitectura tuvieron dificultades en La Habana con res; acto a la visa y hoy llegaron los arquitectos, los profesores que van al otro Congreso. MORALES pregunta el teléfono de la Real Aerovias Brasil y ROGELIO dice que es el 35-81-60.- 035.-

035. 1. Salida al 35-81-60.- ROGELIO pregunta a que horas llega el vuelo procedente de Brasil. HF: 18.30 h.- 043.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

Memorandum for the Record

11 October 1961

Subject: Pro-Cuban Ceremony at Escuela "Republica de Cuba" - Surco #258 Mexico, D.F.

On 11 Oct 61, LITALWS-1 reported that the ceremony planned at the Escuela "Republica de Cuba" in memory of the "Rito de Yara" was held on this date at 1120. The following people of note were present:

Directora - Elmira ROCHA - Member of the MRM, "Rojilla"

Manual S. HIDALGO - Rep from the XXS SEF.

For sa FROMIZA - Press Attache Cuban Embassy and Cultural

Rog 116 RODRIGUEZ Lopez - Asst. Press/Attache Cuban Embassy.

Nothing of a political nature was discussed during the ceremony. After the ceremony FANICA and RODRIGUEZ met with officials fro the school and talked for some time. It is not known what was discussed.

LITEM L-1 reports that DFS has assigned him to find out the whereabouts of Amado Puente Casas, "in barbudo" cubano who arrived in Mexico from Havana on 6 Oct. The purpose of the DFS request is not known.

I saw L-1 above assignment on the night of 10 Oct 61.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

Memorandum for the Record

Subject: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

On 11 Oct 61, I gave Tex Puckett data re

Subject for surveillance op to be mounted on 16 Oct 61. LITENSOR interested Cuban dip who in contact Mexican students. I believe XXXXXX

Subject may be an LITAENSOR interested in.

CKS

FILE: "P" FILE SUBJECT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

18:12

22 Sept 61

087. Salida 10.00 h.- ALBERU con la señorita COLAR. Esta se encuentra muy apenada con él, antier lo estuvo esperando, ayer pensaba llamarle, pero estuvo muy ocupada porque tenía que atender a unas chicas de la Universidad Iberoamericana- y se le fué el tiempo en su laboratorio porque tenían que hacer una serie de preparaciones y cosas. A ALBERU sef- le pasó antier; pregunta si la puede ver. COLAR indica que sí, pero ahorita va a salir para el museo. ALBERU queda de irla a ver allá entre doce y una. COLAR lo espera.- 106.-

292. Salida 15.49 h. al 10-21-71.- ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ pide a SOUSA que de ser posible le mande el traje negro. SOUSA indica que todavía no está.- 315.-

8 Oct 61

362. Salida 16.46 h. al 46-60-15.- ROGELIO pregunta por ELIEZER MORALES. BORDES informa que no está. ROGE LIO indica que aqui está el Presidente de la FEU y querían ver si ELIEZER los podía llevar a la Universidad para que la vieran. BORDES: que se fué con EDUARDO PASCUAL y OSCARES, que en caso de que lleguen les dirá se domuniquen con ROGELIO.- Este acepta, agregando que el lunes lo verá. BORDES está de acuerdo.- 389.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

4 de Octubre 1941
de la liberacion

Sr.
Gregorio Rodrigues Abalar

Tengo su carta esta carta y contestare bien.
Conte Visto y ehdido una carta lo estimare afin mo lo sé si esto "es vacia en lo carta anterior era mains estaba mains mal inprecita yo no sea la majors nada contaré
y yo les dio sava hacer yo mo me isto yo estoy causada se lincke
y muchas y bedus amor.
Reciba una semana si me mo si recibime si mi a hijo con su abilio buena si contaré mas nunca si nunca me no se mune nunca esto me


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

## 7

habas Soy, China, haue dies vine anta. Son una imitatos han baben de marcados. sol hulguma para no és. del a hi otros casi; chas asrio' mo. I las casas tamdas mos di à so 1920.

> [Figure: A handwritten text in Spanish.]

Is dasto amana es tuna 2 dias como o i somblhians de voy go hove nomas no catia toma on és coduinos una sola manna ino lo voy a dagar. jer, och inien és en tice nomas Dios Sino' y nási Sino in la no le cás in bes vino time és condrache La una nada Pintar os nada as nada a à nante de la casa legt g: no nos un ton jahoros asta ihor. Ts soi intenso estes Dias So have 5 nomas no reada aste ingoro. sien in cale se datained sia 2 hans mos saura 21 in Septians.


la remar as al 20 de Catols Contracsion as sas befuncions de ton ño in messits hings como un teatro nies. Perilo bens is zu mosin sia is y no is direle nemesler.

La tiresion de Kerbela La Fania Moers sas tardew loen in memai diap to de mands buss Je falollane.

21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

Francisco Marquez 160

10/11/67

NEGATIVES

![signature] Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

P. 7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

tis de la Educacin
ralana de lühe de
en Vogeles (Verdunns sate
N'e swendo delito dios priera
i al reater estas litros te
incuentes vien de salud.
(isgelio recibi tu carta de
ficer is de Settembre donde
me dises que tienes que exfirar
fermiso para venir al la
Havana, lo que uniers sodo
me snandes a decir & dias.
antes nands virgas para prder
Lernso acurdate de tracrve
in cardena que no se te
oltrades cabes que quero con
adina on un Cuisipito
: mira Labis si me predesimandan.
cum compler de gorge Veprete
ch. cancrines benia musicaras
salones in Pinar dill Ris
designwste come in mica

![stamp]

![handwritten text]

![handwritten text]

20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

is donde poder ya uno termina
calime *Digidistas 20.com*
Creeria lo que tenemos in vides
cuando escriba el sobre de las
setas no impirta falta de fotogafa
seguro no se si és escribisti te
î desde, de te be machi pur
ni se libada de te im solo
momento on besa is abrage bien
suerte te semana ronge le
manda waal

ora

*Patria S. Pinete*

Tenceremos

*DMR muestra Liberata*

*servirle te in amasla en la
Americas*

![image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

Florence Mining 168

10/11/6/

NEGATIVES

P-7365
20.

File - Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

Mine de In Educacion
Habana 20 de Setiembre 190.
Mejoordin

In siendo dia de mera aut
I receber esas letras le envientes
cuento de udend nostros bren
mi hijo Lice & amanan yul no
malo vela de to medir noticias
Lage for be madire donde sel
disse suur- Bindias in el mes de
Octubre no cubes ir allwine, une
me de al reales enn noban
me disseme A omen à idracte
lo umes, vue prenies one mil.
manches a decir I dias antes
cando Cunes para pliche permiso
po tener hempo para mandarme
iner une disthose passaria Barda
de ustedes per un festir a ches
de premies en siteliato. A
mands in solo sinquer
lias a to nache festila di



> [Figure: Rectangular stamp]
> FRANCISCO MARiA LOPEZ
> Se Rogelio Rodriguez
> con CALZADA de Kedayi.
> Colonin Condes VIL: APREA
> loper Loper CUMAIPRE ALUCR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

ccmixtate de la cadena
me la compras con en weicfche
meia liar ur nde lenger.
no se te sitede tingo imactor
janes de inte gorge liene muchas
sanas ok butu y yo antren
-20 haupole oleh ne die marten, um
le alliola ni sen momentos.
R. corry-wo nina un abrazo ben preerte

Patria E. Muerti

Venceremos
Jalil nuestra Pelolucion


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

> [Figure] This figure shows the people at the building site.

![photo of two people at the building site]

> [Figure] This figure shows people at work during the process of building a building.

![photo of people working at the building]

> [Figure] This figure shows the mason and the workers

![photo of the mason and the worker]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

Francisco Marquez 160 10/2/61

P-7365 19

NEGATIVES

Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

La Felicia Sept 18/961.
"Año de la Educación".

S. Rogelio Rodriguez

Cuñado:

La presente es para decirte: Ale le transite. Yo de estos, eduar. di aqui para Le Fondo de Roles, adonio. mitire la comión de edad. Y jefe de la. muerto hai que sacar una arlipeca cuon de defension para presentarlo en los papeles del matricúder, dish se puede pedir vise papel y sou solo. hasta Inst. El office, past Lau You Isue mayor impelentio. En caso de que conguluse pals se hace una dedaracion fuesada ante ur notario y cuando este flapel este! se adjurta a la jia archuisde es la notario, la citifficacar. de procuemen to de Cillon y la fe de solterio estan para el 2 de Oct, manana se va. a ua amenarod a sobailar participe. islas las tone sen tramite de Villes


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

Mañana sa Sena a ser la Sem Fullerto. Y tratar de fieri fagociti, para se ellos karrallen milionsit cactificaatics difunerers sine alegio muchen por semite you patin feglio esterandole Megurine Cilagos de I heer server threw bake sen tiedpo I to play goals estave Jacin

Phi apana la cuñada

I dir & beverte
inecreve


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

S. Stalen

18 de Septiembre 1961

Ario de la Educacion

S.

Rogelio Ramirez Lizg.

> [Figure: Image of address on an envelope]

Desear to make recito esta carta to amanethen ami vida recito In ente en esta carta del dio 9 men algo musho al satiro se era cultura del cours y a lu, men yo lori sucre de que no te nis noticias Inge I she dio entre de ti fronte y me escrito de mensates y madera le le cris dents de dos men y ahora me dices lu in mis trienses estes Abui para el cumpliano de Gouge, y me dices he lencs to propales amelade sus si degan liga vienes son rimes y te cons cas y nos remes I darnos zu enteg inlicitando los trades de incrisisin la soheil me de dura 20 dess seus y ten um tramit de unos dos. O 10s de yo solicito al Lugo Laurien so zurances Saves sscamos ahs bor en no hay brotlama bens es In demian de merents se teefrida en en carte del hstene de boy de todes sommes di In abs, men zu Latis arresteds so papeles.

p-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

Si ban veo lo dejan dije z vienen a casarte ansa hues in sales the line de vente mas bara la tume, monte var te flame de mid casi mojon estamos el demengo y mon el lunes en esta a be impression como to linnes. Raube mun bean de te mosie de to finre y m te alnian.

4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

Dramares Marquez #160

NEGATIVES

4/25/61

!

Keylus Rodriquez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

Iño de la Educación

Palana 13 de xlehtiembre de 1861

Ivelin, dediger

"Me cuede desir"... os sure que al recibir estas letras te encuentres.

Lleno de salud mi disseis Deos para jira lenyos funit jure ting suvos de sole me dese Ester que esten en eur circulo de Capaciación Pelolucinara ns de fredes imaginar la alegria jiue me de saber que todo in ia insa estan crefrando con la Aebolucion porge estin de lo mos grande & forma! Le Jadre ésta in nosotros farandose imss das mi amando la dirección Juve Yara que le escritos elle a tu adrino que siempre me disse que tu is le "wone de mando la direcan del


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

il decide de ti in madre
con Lesos xem siurta abrog
in lide d gelma of corazon
mu
AL
le manera d'etrate prec
sediste de (Frigocista
la écaima arta for ques
que los leyerek de incuntian
cuerdale où compraeme la
ardena en el crucifijo tu saber
meness, disews de diner

sta es in chrman
airco #356
stan, znan Puerto Rico

it esto es la direcaor ole tenden

Servilaments 501


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

Emuras Magnes 166

9/26/61.

NEGATIVES

P-2365

P-Regler Rodriguez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

![scale from 1-13]

![seal]

![seal] Justicia Popular e órgãos da 1ª Zona do Exército (Of. n. 106 - de 2-3-1971, Port.
128, de 3-3-1971)

![seal]

![seal] 35° ANIVERSÁRIO
DO
DEPARTAMENTO NACIONAL DO PETRÓLEO
(Decreto-lei N.o 3.952 - de 24-11-1941)
PT. - MTRE-G. - A. - Servico
Papeis Val e Titulos
![seal] Diretor
![seal] Manuel del Patrão
La Haber "sura"

p-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

##### 14-00000

> ![image of a ruler with numbers from 1 to 10 on the side.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

y mediando de su contenido y del que yo certitique.

Que por estar dominando a la neutralidad y a la condicion que mira este proyecto de la estacion de la Caridad, de publicar en la Gazeta la declaracion de independencia absoluta a la provincia del Alto Peru, los Srs. Vocales con igualdad y en su dictamen. Este recurso que sirve para que entorpezca con sus luces a los pueblos que esperan por tan anciosos deseos su libertad; y este en tales terminos.

Como la parte es sobre gravedad y se mira a una utilidad que de esto pueda venir a sus pueblos? y diga este que mas en su concepto?

La 3era materia. Sabido que para un asunto, piden tres sujetos a este fin: uno por si, otro con quien fue al encuentro comercial, de esto consta que para muerto este, la proteccion y la asistencia de la junta es nula o no, y presentaria la tercera.

[Figure] Handwritten Text in Spanish


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

Brancuso Mlaigny /60

9/22/61

NEGATIVES

"P" Rogelio RODRIGUEZ copy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

![photo description]

![photo description]

![photo description]

![photo description]

![photo description]

![photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

na Alejamolina

si/ning. Pi ta

… que …........

. 
Sin que con io foo
tenga bua ma jorga

minima …...

sido be

… arlo con .... tomando

….ajurnaliado con …..

….. vino.  6 no …. argentin

… no se trata

Te famoso
aga allen …...

enga en una a.

… formando qui ..........
das tados bo ...... ta
y? ¿, cido todo. ta....

....

¿Por que al …..laminados y chamale
fuera los lugares, en ...... apuelo

… lé gimnasio ....... le ........

. 
Viatria ampuute

uneselimins

dande ven!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

Francisco Marquez #166

9/22/61

NEGATIVES

Rogelius Rody-lpg


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

11 de Sept. de 1961
INFORME #48

## PINTURA ROJA EN MAGATLAN #126

ANTECEDENTES: En las calles de Liazatlan #126 es el domicilio del Sr.
Rogelio Rodriguez López, que se encuentra en lugar de
Rodriguez Cué. G-2.

INFORLE: A la una de la mañana del dia ll de Sept. se pinto el
escudo Ruso en la casa #126 de las calles de Mazatlan
y se tiro pintura en la puerta de la misma.

12511) 
![signature]

P-7365

Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

18 Ang 61

En una llamada de cargo Sta a Vevao?
SORE CUSA, exiliado a FULINO?. Cónsul Cubano ac
coo, más uno en la Embajada están 2 agentes P.7365

ción Federal de Seguridad y preguntan por JCSZ AGUSTIN
RAMIREZ GOMEZ, de 16 años, hijo de uno de los ayudantes
del Presidente de la República, de quien se sabe que se
casó con una salvadoreña de nombre MARGARITA DALTON, y
los dos se fueron para Cuba; que los agentes dicen que
el Presidente quiere saber cómo está el asunto. POSADA
informa que efectivamente, JOSE RAMIREZ GOMEZ y su esposa
MARGARITA se fueron para Cuba en el barco Bahía de Slagosea
y trajeron a Veracruz una recomendación del Embajador
RYUCADO quien debe saber todo. POSADA agregó que
El ICAP tiene que saber el domicilio en Cuba. (265)

5 Sept 61

11:00 En voz muy baja, ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana dijo
a GALLO: TELLEZ habló con ALFREDO SILVA FLORES y le dijo
que él era del servicio secreto de esta Embajada; además le
pregunto que que venían a hacer ellos a la Embajada, que si
venían a buscar ayuda. CALLO comentó : bueno, pues.., nos vemos compañero. 11. Sept

14 Sep 61

19:30 a la Embajada Cubana, usando el nombre de asistirá a la cita.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

de la Education.
Firlanac de Tihtamibe 1
af suha eiter létian. A enannte
tien en companie de tus
cantante as topelisan m
come les ques are re
inr á diva in alias του
ester di desessiada de
whaastuvas. mi
gime dinge muchir chirtas de bir te
d. acusach. fare
ai
il ome
islihara aniela y
linirti serca salle we olu arie
pause, giurien la cele ale nosation
looks a
iamhach
pandre frond, nos caso.comes
pain. Gole voreties dos code
game coli ceca idia

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

14-00000

-il desfioli di le te madre
que no olhada en are ide
pente, & veches besos
rospe canalen i tu glo Padre

aitua C. Fimirte

10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

Dipanises Marquez #160.

NEGATIVES

Rodriguez

Rodriguez Lopez.

9/19/68


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

r3365

![Letter and Envelope]

![Envelope]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

```
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
```

```
now as it was then.
...
was only a matter
of time.
for me to know
dearly.
instantly.
...
came.
was late in time.
...
```

15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

Francisco Marquez #100

9/12/61

NEGATIVOS

Rogdel Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

Sr. Rofolio Fodriguez Loras
Prancisce Karquez #160
man Cultuin da Taculnya,
Cofonia CardCRA.

![photo of a ruler]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

```
...
```


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

Prancisa Marquez 160

NEGATIVES

P-7365

P- Rogelio Rodriguez López

![Image of handwritten notes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

18 Aug 61

Carlos ARIEL and Julieta were there talking about Human rights Congress at the Del Prado.

GALLOtold Subj they were interested in closer relation with Belice, i.e. mutual collaboration. He talked quite some time on the Cuban Revolution and what is was doing. He told Subj that ho was veryinterested in his union and that it affiliate itself as soon as possible with the Confederacion de Trabajadores Cubanos (CTC), in urged him to write out (dictate) a letter to Rogelio Leon re affiliation with CTC. Subj told GALLO that he would discuss this with JARDON and that the two of them would come up with something re the CTC. GALLO told Subj that they would like the CDU (Christian Democratic Union) to be the lick between the PGT in Guatemala and the CTC in Cuba. GALLO also asked Subj if he knew anything about a military buildup in Puerto BARRIOS. Subj believes that GALLO thinks that there has been a military buildup there. Subj tell him he knew nothing about this which is the truth. GALLO also asked about relations between B. H. and British Guiana.

Subj report: that Guillermo TREJO of La Prensa

Libre went to Toluca on urgent mission on 17 Aug. 61.

Subj said that GALLO, RODR GUEZ and BORGES talked at some length in Spanish in his presence but he was not able to understand what they were talking about. He cited the following items: something will happen in Mexico whichiwill bring about another situation similar to Guantanamo. CARDENAS mentioned, and named HERNANDEZ of FERNANDEZ on several occasions. Also Oaxaca and Chilpancingo.

P-7365

FILE: Norman LAEHISTA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

14-00000

Sr. Popelio Rodrigurs Lopes
Francisco Marques 160
os. Calzada de Tacubayo,
Colonia Corders.
LICC-D.F.

20 de Agosto 1961

![signature]

Rosario Rodriguez Lopes

...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

14-00000

Love to las

stohe

ilever nen

cada vida,

cando intesta

dware mate, se maltie de

I ses a

ra

alen a molester

cuando uno de

CLIC
sueneritha en bree hists
denite.



- to fuici
  de encrits y te inter ing.

13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

Francisco Marquez 160 8/28/61

NEGATIVES

P235 P- Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 133

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Caracas

Chief, WED 50-5-19

Chief of Station, Mexico City 11 August 1961

Gustavo A. MENDOZA

For your information

1.  LIBDYCY (3) reported that on 9 August 1961 Lorenzo BATAYA Amaro, Honduras Communist who lives in Mexico, told Rogelio FUNK: Mendoza, Cuban Embassy employee, that he wanted to discuss with him the work of Gustavo R. MENDOZA, a newsman who is an instructor in the use of farm machinery. He said that MENDOZA, member of the Revolutionary group in Venezuela, can no longer return to his country and has been practically dismissed from his teaching job at Chapingo because of his idealogy. BATAYA said that he would send MENDOZA, who has had much experience, to see FUNK.

2. Station has no traces on Justero A. MENDOZA.

Willard C. CURTIS

11 August 1961

DISTRIBUTION:
3-Caracas
2-W-ID
2-Files

1- chrono
1- 50-9-12

DRCASSAVETTS: ca

> [Figure: P-7365 written in a circle]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 134

mielo 11 de 1.105.
Ministerio de Education

Estimado Señor:
recibi esta carta su comen
Zams
concidero mi reclamacion, evita
la suma de 2.453.90. a la
secretaria de Hacienda has la
viernes de la semana, my caso estos dius
trata do solutionas no verdad y
ve se solucionon. Similes.
mucha su intermediacion,
que tenga mas hombres.
en contendo, importands dote, een
esta carta, mientras he recibe la
por este me dio, ademas lo que
nuestra oficina he recido, ha me inista
la que debe ella en compensacion!
Le envio esta nota subrayando
muchisimo a ti.
cuando in informe in medio lo fu


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 135

annidente ese is de aus

withaine me in medico in me
hes in mariado inasa in

100 and cons

a es sido

la mente mis
tudo este ilaracion y cual is ton me!

in in devertrede meeste manie

be the russia. Eu te
de causa Laujas

laabride nen
シーンでもイレン Ester.

fm le fans was a los cortio.

Iger Me Al en tiendin.

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 136

Embajada de Cuba

NEGATIVES

6/18/61

p.365

"P"- Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 137

EMBAJADA DE LA REPUBLICA DE CUBA
MEXICO D F

```text
1941
```
28 de julio de 1961
"AÑO DE LA EDUCACION"

Sr. Jesús A. Zentella C.
"Copitias de el Salvador" 7 Dep b,
México 1, D.F.

Distinguido señor:

Por encargo del señor Embajador, ten-
go el gusto de acusar recibo de su atenta carta de fecha
12 del presente.

Agradecemos y estimamos su interés por
el proceso revolucionario cubano. El Departamento de Pren-
sa e Información de esta Embajada de acuerdo con su solici-
tud, le suministrará los materiales de información a medida
que se reciban.

De usted con la mayor consideración,

Rogelia Rodriguez López
Tercer Secretario


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 138

Embajada de Cuba

8/2/66

P-7365

NEGATIVES

"P" Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 139

La Helena.
27 de Julio 1961
Año de la Educación
S. Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

Querido: Ya cuando recibas esta carta te encontrarás bien.
Cuanto hace una semana. Ya no recibimos la tuya. Da sabranza de recibir carta tuya. Cuanto hubieras hecho si la me te hubiera dado tiempo de escribir. Pero me superé animado. Ya!

Pero el motivo de escribirte hoy, me apena, porque resulta que no recibo carta tuya. Ya aún he de escribirte. Yo te deseo lo mejor. Pero me apena a mi misma. Ya veremos.
Ya me contaron el rumbo y si vivimos. Me recordaban la casa de la calle.

Me interesa a este....

Olga de cuando se irá y la llama por teléfono para ver cuando se irá y me digas. De Arsendado una semana. Siempre me hablaba casi sobre my viajes to Brazil! Sin loca.
Me Federe con la Gente de aquí. La desea

![photo of the address details] Sr. Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
Francisco Marques #160
col. a Calzada de Tacubayo,
Colinsa Cordesa.
Méxi D.F.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 140

Lane de la lideración me allé para besar,
bare in esencial yo creo de dences,
bares fuera metume on il gus asunto dese,
besar bara is nacional que tu
Cres. de. esto.
kray Subieron de tu marami esta esu.
Jorge en esa esperatera.
Recibo en beso de tu sosa que te dure
y no te olvida. Este.

PATRIA O MURTE

VENCEREMOS

VIVA NUESTRA

REVOLUCION

Socialista


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 141

Embajada de Cuba

Joan

NEGATIVES

Rogelio Rodríguez López

"P"

8/2/61

P-7315


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 142

Sr. Rogelio Rodrigues Loves
Francisca Marquez #160
esq. a Calzada de Tacubaye,
Colonia Condesa.
MICO D.F.

![photo of a ruler]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 143

![image of a page with horizontal lines for writing on]

1

![photo of a ruler]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 144

Embajada de Cuba

NEGATIVES

7/21/64

P

Rogélio Rodriguez Lopz

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 145

La Habana, a 6 de julio 1861
Rio de la Yucasia

Sr. Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

Desde la tarde hasta este dia de momento.
Mi vida es la segunda carta la le ira costa ti no son hoy Domingo y lo recibiran. Llamarle nuestro Dios trajo lo pasaremos juntos. Ira el dia algunas mas insistiendo sino no imboro el Lamento. A mi todo me da buena suviendo cars. sin irnos...iremos... hacer pedazos. sino bestias mans. ira se cansará tales.
Y aunque antes de ira estuve en su casa y de aqui unos antes de venir yo via muy lejos.
Es una antes y se mueva uno. casa. se ven muchos.
Dicita para a ver reimos de la frase dicta una manera uno esto con leche


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 146

Megan in den 5 de la Jude zinant la semi
rse intangi

indien in india cataenaissande
Adilantees cuando la
MusiCelia y-ment in in a seg

Viende en la hora de la mesa de-e tisiso fital

PETRIO O MURTE
VEIKLERE MI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 147

12 de Junie de 1961
line oil indacación
Cuba, territorio libre de America

Dr. Angelis Rodriguez.

Recuerde:-

Son mis mejores deseos que
2L. recube de esta te anemonitios.
- que me quedo- de con orden, wahaer
  no....duce le estoy haciende.
  Suman cuantes telias, para que

Sifredie's
ma los
Antennas niendod

Ende 26 de fiction

corres


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 148

En la Centrada del cajetotiesion.
frecer, el girato de sider, y y
El 26. otre en la tolags dira
rena. Casantlia del joulle... mayor en
la vida da. Deschorocimieulo su da.
La mu de deschorocimieulo su-dir.
rijo mas en por fue-fray.
Paradara. Calpashon: jorge ater.
para da severo da les Cajeyenes
Sin mas serial momenti en lafide
Hab.lingte.
Eduardo

Jorge Muerte

Vendarci C.M.C.S.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 149

Embajada de Cuba

7/22/61

P-1215

"P"- Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

![signature]

NEGATIVES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 150

1:27

3 July 61

De la Embajada De Cuba han estado insistiendo al 24-94-56 que pertenece a Libreria Kadero, sita en A. Ortega # 1355, que si ya eston listas las pruebas de los boletines. Fosteriormente un individuo que dijo sor de la Imprenta Kadero indicó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ que ya estaban listas las pruebas, pero esta dijo que mañana pasarían a revisarlas. Mas turde ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana indicó que enseguida iba a revisar esas pruebas de los boletines.

-5574

7365

13:39

4 July 61

ESPEJEL indicó a ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana que

RESUMEN
martes 4 julio-961

"ya le viene todo eso que ROGELIO queria". Iesteriormente ROGELIO indicó a MAIS, portero de la Embajada que a la hora que llegue ESPEJEL la franques la entrais.

7365

6471

13:40

ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ de la Embajada Cubana insistentemente ha estado tratando de comunicarse con el Ing. LORENZO CELAYA sin conseguirlo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 151

Sr. Rogelig Fodriguez Lóper
Francisco Marquez (160
ena. a Calzada de Tarute:
Colonia Cordesa.
MEXICO D. F.

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 152

> [Figure: Image of a document page with faded text and markings.]

6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 153

Embajade Cubana

NEGATIVES

Rozelia Rodriguez Lopez

6/14/64


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 154

Sr. Rogelio Rodriques Lopes
Francisco Marques 160
eng. a Calzada de Tacutayo,
Colonia Condess.
MICO DF.

![photo of stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 155

> [Figure] The figure shows an illustration of a structure or site with an associated scale for measurement.

![Illustration of a structure or site with an associated scale]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 156

> [Figure] Diagram of an inscription with measurements indicated with a scale.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 157

![ruler]

![handwritten document]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 158

Embajada de Cuba

6/19/61

NEGATIVES

File -

"P"File = Rogelio Rodriguez

Lozano


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 159

14-00000

> ![photo of ruler]

Junio 5 de 1961

) 
Gin de la Educacion

Sr. Cecilio Paniagua Lopez

Deseo estes momentos este carte a sus
manos finas

Insin antes momentos le te escrito estuiera
secinte me tu atujes isturo en jerman ager se
munas lo masnas hasta za esta niego.
Luciena escrito estas cosas tienes cuancionia
en escrito selus cosas: mis he scruntados
mientras los Domicazos no tenido escribirte
izats el domingo basado te erase in carton
incuma de los costes con ondersta
sire women losa dinismo, hor esos he le
une cartes water & I. commence & 300
te Averecera em roki bura bere is message
asites duro in canton
fecha 27 de mayo; à rieturms.
mnauna in din carta medecins los asus
todo los cortes al corasandi

los carte tiranas.
miral ima



Si. Igidio Rodriguez Lopez
Formosa; Uruguay #166

y, a Citaisa cie lacuta, o
Citima cach


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 160

i: del que hace de in cosa que te extraña mucho y no te había dicho.

Los séculos más está La luz de la cita. Esta lugar, sobre la note. Puedes juzgar, sobre esto todos los días próximos. Si lo sabes todo lo diré.

Si no sabes, cuando menos, bueno ... meteme en la escuela de painting en tu medejos, yo creo. Tenerme el pelo arriba espero tu permiso para que tengo el color de cogido en rosa. No me lo has anunciado.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 161

Embajada de Cuba

2/12/61

"P"

Rogelin Rodriguez Lopez

NEGATIVES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 162

#

Haluna 21 de aosto 19.1 sindela Eslucacion

#

> ![photo of post office envelope]

qunach siente Cima amar que al meiter no
blia le enharte aime desobel contenidan
hat necesitane que la canta con un mu
que have face darse Lamgue. Conteme en un
fur the maste gant alem en un inangumanta

Las que fonte timas
comectica de ellos exitiendo si istamon infando
a la Pada sae Lune a pacacie éitamkan
nata nos desciades de dente tal forei
put hace me que no le iro sui ca ato
ca. Lacondas chia
ista smejer suminca la
Sépaleticacis ja suma 100,000:madina y lodabra
fuitten visa mas sitan las aliñada de les
gobblete Localizando a la vice per. Can
circahay vinilicia fura acredite mardo
nga ancina estar i la Habana para cuando.
liia lalar. Gitekkelecatnia mucho tanto ins
ge se després de te tu madu.
ato ante sous ilsado y se disper
ne stela misen sels acounts con muchas
Meses alrags Lin fieit.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 163

Gamerses Marques #160

F-7365

9/6/61

NEGATIVES

"P" Roselio Rodríguez López


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 164

![photo of three people in suits and hats, indoors]

Sauce - LIFIRE.

may's!

TORI. Guoz

frumeuse.
Mair
Athirti

"P"

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 165

Habana 10 de Mayo 180:

Mi tanta Teresa: Lico genuna gus al un. l: inta carta la de. dien de salud i spelen mal: la feta. de bin amor de ti no sabes. la algica pue wi nac... esidente ca ta gue. la estoy escubirido de la wil difinir: yous. realicams la geta obi de Litif du cacten chil dia 15 f. mue citala ait drende sta con la duncion que me cles Entre me algun mundo pue intes Liere pue ester contento tu no sabes los desert gue yo hivi ole Fore we scililias la. ica para varadore - que sable joue ja hiemes vamos le pre In prena guin liverianes cele wale Uyen loder estamos tralasande

![photo of AÑO DE LA EDUCACION, CORORO ALFEC, and other text]

Ha Lana,

![photo of postage stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 166

fur le que beinbes va

Samanta mu. m
Yosmet

fara beserk, in all le

Lister 200 spamilias de mardan
munte recuerdo mi life acım date!
ile compira ime ia cadina.
are yde trauris algo
a bu dimanto soul dice and

de bravo mucho, lor la manane
infall it Lambicios que
yue ga coudste mucho
folya
ro todo for chia
hevo zu machena como res.fin
tial asande y ludand's mucto.
cuando badas nas antener illipoma
de muchos cosas que estan parande.
Eure mi Iwata sil olijfill all le
Tu madre que no dya de a
A mun mor onto Con r
pientemudu


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 167

Embajada de Cuba

P

NEGATIVES

5/29/61:

Rogelis Rodriguez Lopez
(Another's name:
Alejandrina Lopez Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 168

F. Krstit. fochingua, n°155
Simonae Bosignar. n°156
S. a ubuchia au l'iniligt
Cuteni Cardon
Foshings 1838

Quabi, 15 E 1838
Via. rebigo

... mientio seralata alu de la comunicater
... Tencaute vista il ricerimeto nimbre
... S. Vostra, n' e il tenore del med.mo.
... S. V. sta rimasta cunsola'a con la rassegna
... della sua, e merita la sua.
... micalata, rimanete compiacente
... che la 23 courete le su. al Sig: Com.te
... il S. V. sta vivamente ringraziato.
... della di lei offerta.
... il V. sta a disposizione se mai le
... fossi occorente, ed allora si esequirà con
... la più. prontezza.
... di mandare al S. Cav.re le carte
... lo saluto in istima rassegnando nel candre
... del Suo favore

Il Maggiere del Comune

ho recato le rose in rema andamanta
ho rimasto molia rosa finta huma hoca
la se magara ha bein sentite huma. com.
lomando. Lausa y dimmaue.
sitte desine toitos lemaus. remaute.
sinta. Suma 74 no timitera humu di.
... remo caro contrar. heum to.
... ammirevole duro iato huma i
... duro demitte dimanare toito lemas hum
... caro. dimmaite teama toito huma rom


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 169

14-00000

![ruler with markings]

liano
Carme comigo in coris funera dure

![illegible text]

1.  مدسه دست cmos athore cuanto estaskeupien bes
    soma kesen teamiento de prendrecor
    panies un beso be the cavia estet
    200

Tecuerdo tematon Carnita, suis

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 170

Embajada de Cuba. 5/28/61

![Signature] Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

Negatives


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 171

balam, lutar, 13 ifang: 1161
In dela Educacian
Tenine lore de A........

Sr. Kogeiio Prelinque
luñado
arecierdiet te src
Ayer wandele
alegis mucho tie laria.
Yeni
bory, rent son an
etente com
do 11 Escami, da im
dansnet
danse. Cines en de sin
de


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 172

revolución social. a la der- rumbando, que están convertidos en asts, trapos, miserias que va a los tres o cuatro próximos años a este país pobre, el que la reconstrucción la que le debido. Lo intado del cambio es el mej- icanos por traidores y como lo dije! haber la consolidación de la Revolución para lasad- os una parte.

Tres días que el vier- nes pasado ahora a lasuno para Tambien yome invito a una fiesta que había en casa. Y me dijo que la fuera a visitarte, como las.... mientras uno se vayan a alfabetizar..

Se despide de ti to.
Eduardo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 173

Embajada de Cuba

NEGATIVES

5/27/61

"P" film- Rogelio Rodriguez
Lopez


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 174

LA

14-00000

33

23 La Plane

sajado =
He hajado

TULLA =TUYA

160

Rayabile

jeein

as

11

19

...نمو

beco
beca

ella


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 175

![Ruler from 1 to 12]

que no hay que darle una limosna porque tenga 100.
Esta sí es una cuestion; solamente unos pocos la han lamrentado; pues a mí si me toco

que se me dio a la justicia. Los dos me han tomado momentos a

Wars Prension tiene a la direccion para documentos.

automatico; muchos pesos de servicios. Estás

para que yo pueda tomar y la future le permite tenerlos sobre
el momento de su uso, cuando sea usado is la misma
-Beto


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 176

Embajada de Cuba

5/27/61

Open new - Cuban Dip

"P"- Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

NEGATIVES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 177

Memorandum for the Files

31 May 61

Subject: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

In letter of date 23 May 61 from girlfriend following:

noted for KXXX S's files:

Sweetheart's name is Ester, she uneducated, mis- spellings are many: veen (been) evrjdao (he bajado) tulla (Tuya) etc.

Soki has mother in Cuba.

Girlfriend in "Habana."

JKS

FILE: "P" FILE SUBJECT

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 178

SECRET
(When Filled In)

NOTE. Consult the 201- Control System Reference Manual
before completing this form. Form must be typed or
printed in block letters.

PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RID/201 Section

FROM:

|                                                  |                                        |
| ------------------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------- |
| CHECK 2-4 FOR 201 REQUEST. DO NOT CHECK FOR IDN. | 2. EXCLUDE TRUE NAME FROM MACHINE LIST |
| YES                                              | NO       YES            NO             |
| 5. 201 NO.                                       | 3. RESTRICTED                          |
|                                                  | 4. PERMANENT CHARGE                    |
|                                                  | 6. SOURCE DOCUMENT                     |

7. NAME

(Last) (First) (Middle)

8. SEX 9. PHOTO
   M F YES NO

10 TYPE
NAME VARIATIONS IN BIO. DATA

(Last) (First) (Middle)

11. DATE OF BIRTH 12. COUNTRY OF BIRTH 13. CITY/TOWN OF BIRTH 14. COUNTRY OF LOCATION CODE- 50 15. CITIZENSHIP

16. AFFILIATION CODE 17. ADDITIONAL CODES - P B PATTERN ONLY
    P B PATTERN ONLY

| 63  | 64  | 65  | 66  | 67  | 68  | 69  | 70  | 71  | 72  | 73  | 74  | 75  | 76  | 77  | 78  | 79  | 80  |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
|     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |     |

18. ORGANIZATIONAL OR GROUP AFFILIATION (Clear text)

19. ORG/GROUP CODE

20. OCCUPATION/POSITION (Clear text)

21. OCC/POS ABBREVIATION

22. ACTION DESK 23. CODE 24. SECONDARY DESK 25. CODE

26. CRYPTONYM 27. PSEUDONYM

28. COMMENTS

29. SIGNATURE 30. IDN- 201-
    SECRET

FORM
7-61
831
USE
PREVIOUS
EDITIONS.
(38)


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)