# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET 121014Z JUN 70 CITE BERN 8708 12 Jun 70 102149

DIRECTOR, BONN, FRANKFURT, BERLIN INFO ZURICH

INK

REF: ZURICH 1622, 17 MAR 1969, ET. AL. (NOT NEEDED BONN FRANKFURT)

1. INFREED HAS REPORTED THAT RICHARD CASE NAGELL BORN 5 AUGUST 1930, NEW YORK, US CIT, HAS AGAIN COME TO SWISS ATTENTION. IN MID APRIL 1970 HE REGISTERED AT ZURICH HOTEL. ON 15 APRIL 1970 REPORTED TO POLICE THAT HIS RAINCOAT HAD DISAPPEARED. CLAIMED THAT AN IMPORTANT DOCUMENT INTENDED FOR THE AMERICAN MILITARY AUTHORITIES IN BERLIN WAS IN THE POCKET. DOCUMENT WAS ENTITLED "FISCAL YEAR 70 (USAREUR)."

2. RAINCOAT WAS FOUND SHORT WHILE LATER IN HOTEL SANS ALLEGED DOCUMENT. HOTEL TURNED RAINCOAT OVER TO ZURICH POLICE WHERE SUBJ SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED IT UP.

3. WHEN QUESTIONED BY POLICE, SUBJ GAVE AS REFERENCES:

   A. COL. FRANCIS H. DILLON, OFFICE OF COUNTER INTELLIGNECE AND SECURITY, DIA, WASHINGTON.

   B. FRANCIS X. PLANT, SPECIAL ASSISTANT, OFFICE OF UNDER SECRETARY OF ARMY.

   C. BRUCE A. FLATIN, PUBLIC SAFETY SECTION, US MISSION

SECRET CS COPY 12 June 70 201-746537


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIL S

# SECRET

(When Filled In)

PAGE 2 BERN SECRET

BERLIN.

4. SUBJ CLAIMED HE NOW LIVING HOTEL STADT DRESDEN, BERLIN-..

CHARLOTTENBURG, STUTTERTER PLATZ 17.

5. BONN FRANKFURT BERLIN: SUBJ IS FABRICATOR AND MENTAL
   CASE WHO PERIODICALLY CAUSES TROUBLE FOR SWISS AND LNPURE
   CONSULATES IN SUISSE.

6. HQS: REQUEST PERMISSION PASS INBREED INFO CONTAINED PARA 3
   DIRECTOR 80955, 6 MARCH 1969. OTHER ADDEES: PLEASE ADVISE APPROPRIATE
   US ARMY AUTHORITIES ON OFF CHANCE THEY ARE MISSING COPY OF "FISCAL
   YEAR 70 (USAREUR).

7. FILE 201-746537. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)