2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

9 November 1995

MEMO FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: OCA Job No.80T01614R

Yesterday I had a call from Dee Werbrich (37762) of OCA inquiring about 80T01614R, box 1 & 2, logged out to me in 1992. She has no shelf list for this job and could not advise me of the content of these two boxes. She had notations regarding the History Staff and Russ Holmes relating to this job. I spoke to Norita of the History Staff, and she found a brief reference to the job that included the helpful information that the boxes contained microfilm reels. A return call to Dee added the fact that they were gray boxes.

I next reviewed the History Staff paper of 10 February 1992 sumarizing their survey of the JFK holdings at WTC. Page 2 of that paper refers to JFK box 64: "Box 64 of Job No. 80T01357A contains 72 reels of microfilm (although the box is labeled `CIA/DDO HSCA Records, box 1 of 2,' box 2 has not been found). The History Staff was assured, however, that this was indeed box 64 of Job No. 80T01357A."

I have no recollection of ever receiving any boxes directly from OCA. The JFK boxes were sent to HRG in my name from IMS by Russ Holmes. Apparently he had the OCA records changed to reflect my name in place of his.

Putting all this together I am convinced that the 72 reels in box 64 of 80T01357A came from the two gray boxes of 80T01614R. I called Dee and she accepted this as a likely explanation. She will annotate OCA's records to reflect that CSI/HRG holds the microfim reels formerly of Job No. 80T0164R and now box 64 of 80T01357A.

![signature of Frank S. Most]

Frank S. Most
CSI/HRG


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)