14-00000
104-10106-10179
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

FROM:
Robert D. Clark
Office of General Counsel

SUBJECT:
PDLADLE: Outside Lawyer to Draw Up
Deed of Trust

1.  PDLADLE is a high-level defector residing in New York who has
    had advanced to him a number of large "loans" over the years, in addition
    to his "salary." Some of these monies have gone into the purchase of
    some real estate in the State of New York. The Agency now wants a
    Deed of Trust executed in favor of one of its nominees on the New York
    real property.

2.  Possible lawyers to handle drafting the Deed of Trust are:

a.  (Natalie Koether), a cleared N.Y. lawyer, on whom FR
Division has an operational approval. They have an active
interest in using her and her husband. If Ms. Koethen is
used on the Deed of Trust, FR would lose an asset. Were it
not for our rule of no operational use of cleared attorneys,
FR apparently (accordingly to Eric Sowers) has no objection
to Ms. Koether's drawing up the Deed of Trust;

b.  another cleared lawyer. The clearance on any such lawyer
would have to be updated by Security. The best candidate
Bill Ashbaugh and I were able to locate off the Cleared Attorneys
Panel was (Richard C. Kullen, Jr., OS #651 162), last cleared
21 March 1975;

c.  the case officer for PDLADLE, MONCURE, who is apparently
a practicing N.Y. lawyer who at one time worked for the Agency.
This idea was suggested by Vasia Gmirkin of CI Staff, the
client component on the Deed of Trust. The idea would be that
since MONCURE already knows that PDLADLE and MONCURE
would be used only on this PDLADLE job, the security and cover
problems normally associated with allowing cleared attorneys
to become involved in operations would not be as pronounced as

![SECRET]

![IMPRET CL 1.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

usual. On the other hand, his prior association with the Agency could jeopardize PDLADLE if drafting the Deed of Trust exposes MONCURE to more scrutiny than his present association with PDLADLE already does; and

d. an attorney from OGC. N.Y. mortgage law would have to be researched to try to make the Deed of Trust freely assignable from one CIA nominee to another. N.Y. form books should be easily locatable in the D.C. law libraries. If the Deed of Trust follows N.Y. form, would the fact that the OGC lawyer is not licensed in N.Y. in any way throw doubt on the document? When might the name of the lawyer who drafted the document come to light?

![Signature of Robert D. Clark]

Robert D. Clark

RDC: kas
Distribution:
Original - DEFECTORS
1 - RDC Signer
1 - Chrono

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)