# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: General Counsel

SUBJECT: Declassification of Warren Commission Documents

1. In accordance with existing arrangements, we have been asked by the National Archives to review four Warren Commission documents for possible declassification. One of the documents is classified in its entirety, whereas only certain segments of the others remain in classified status. Copies of the affected materials are attached.

2. We see no reason to continue the restriction on document B. Similarly, document A would normally require no further withholding from the public domain, but we checked with Mr. David Murphy, an Agency official under (Department of State cover) and he requested that his true affiliation not be revealed at this time. He is still under cover and uncoordinated revelation of his true status could become an embarrassment to the (Department)

3. Documents C and D would go beyond what we want to release now about our dealings with defectors and the determination of their legitimacy.

4. A suggested reply to National Archives is attached. We recommend your signature.

Raymond G. Rocca
Deputy Chief
Counter Intelligence Operations

Attachments

Distribution: E2 IMPDET
Orig & 1 - Addressee CL BY 006593
1 - DC/CIOPS/Chrono
√1 - Warren Commission File
1 - CIRA/RS/Chrono

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

13-00000

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Marion Johnson
National Archives

SUBJECT : Mandatory Review of Four Warren
Commission Documents

1. Pursuant to your request we have reviewed the attached four documents in order to determine whether the classifications ascribed to them need to be retained. Our conclusions are detailed below.

2. Top Secret Document, Subject: Conference with the CIA on March 12, 1964 (List No. 1, Item 19).
   There are only two segments of this document which have continued to be classified at our request, specifically the name of one person in paragraph one and the entire second paragraph. We should now like to remove all restrictions concerning paragraph two, but we want to continue to withhold the person's name in paragraph one.

3. Top Secret Document, dated 24 June 1964,
   Subject: Yuri Ivanovich Nosenko (List No. 1, Item 27)
   We have no objection to the declassification of this document in its entirety.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

4. Top Secret Document, Pages 63-73 from
   Transcript of the Executive Session of the President's
   Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy,
   January 21, 1964 (List No. 2A, Item 1)

We wish to continue the classification
of this segment of the transcript.

5. Top Secret Document Entitled Report of
   Proceedings Held at Washington, D.C., June 23, 1964
   (List 2A, Item 18)

We wish to continue the classification
of this document.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

13-00000

ATTACHMENTS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)