# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

National Archives and Records Administration

# Kennedy Assassination Collection Full Results

Viewing/Ordering Information

Back to Brief Results Back to Search Exit JFK

Hits 1-1 of 1

Hit 1 of 1

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: CIA
RECORD NUMBER: 104-10181-10099
RECORDS SERIES: JFK
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 80T01357A

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: [No From]
TO: [No To]
TITLE: [RESTRICTED]
DATE: 01/01/0000
PAGES: 38
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER - TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
SUBJECTS: UNIT ID
CLASSIFICATION:
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: POSTPONED IN FULL
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/21/1998
COMMENTS: JFK64-17 : F18 : 1998.03.21.10:31:39:436107 : 38 WHITE BANDED PAGES.

Audit history for this Record Identification Form

Hits 1-1 of 1

Back to Brief Results Back to Search Exit JFK

National Archives and Records Administration
webmaster@nara.gov

https://www.archives.gov/scripts/starfinder.exe/246936/jfksnew.txt


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

G.:of
C//CCG/OPS
1325
19.MAY70

SECRET

SECRET 19:22 2321/70 CITE DIRECTOR

PRICCITY DO BASE LOS ANGELES INFO ROUTINE WHAMTAMIO 35771
ODRID
TYPIC AMAUTO

1. PLS DETERMINE ASAP FIRAGICAL DESCRIPTION AND
   COCUPATION OF MANUEL (VICCS) FIREZ, 935 DRACON AVENUE,
   APARTMENT 10, 105 ANGELES, APPARENTLY NO TELFEHONE. VIGOS
   WENT LOS ANGELES FROM HIAMI LI EARLY MARCH.

2. FILE: 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

WI COSMENT: Based on Nadrid 1131 (IN 035999) request that
access agent of Wa/mical be given much information about Subject
as possible for cake of approach to Cubsa target in Madrid.

JOSEPH TULIK
✓C/DO/I/B1

ACTEUR/IB/s
C/VID

OS COPY

JANES E. FLANHERY
C/WH/COC

201-235276
19ma, 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECTOR 233355

1. WE BELIEVE THAT CHANCE ENCOUNTER WITH AMAUTO-1 ALONE TOO DIFFICULT TO ARRANGE SINCE AMAUTO-1 IS FREQUENTLY IN COMPANY SOMEONE FROM HIS STAFF OR HAVING LUNCH WITH SPANISH OFFICIALS OR BUSINESSMENT. MOREOVER, ENCOUNTER UNDER THIS SITUATION, WE FEEL, WOULD NOT PERMIT RELAXED EXCHANGE BETWEEN SAMKO AND AMAUTO-I. WE WOULD LIKE TO SUGGEST FOLLOWING ALTERNATIVE:

A. ON ARRIVAL SPAIN VIA AERONAVES DE MEXICO FLIGHT 450 LEAVING MIAMI FRIDAY SAMKO WOULD GO DIRECTLY TO HOTEL OF STATION SELECTION. STATION OFFICER WILL ALSO OCCUPY HOTEL IN ALIAS AND INITIAL CONTACT WITH SAMKO WILL BE MADE IN HOTEL. (INCIDENTALLY, BELIEVE NO NEED PACHANKIS ACCOMPANY SAMKO TO MADRID.)

B. EARLY SUNDAY AFTERNOON SAMKO WOULD GO DIRECTLY TU AMAUTO-I'S PRIVATE RESIDENCE. HIS EXCUSE WILL BE THAT HE WOULD HAVE GONE TO EMBASSY BUT WAS CERTAIN THAT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

PAC A M28 1131 SECRET

EMBASSY WOULD BE CLOSELY. IN ADDITION, SINCE SAMKO SCHEDULED TOUR OF MADRID AND SUBURBS LEAVING EARLY

TODAY MORNING DECIDED MAKE EFFORT CONTACT AMAUTO-1 AT HOME RATHER THAN POSSIBLY MISS OPPORTUNITY TO SEE HIM.

(SAMKO WILL BE INSTRUCTED TO SIGN UP FOR TOUR OF CITY TO LEND AUTHENTICITY TO STORY.) SAMKO WILL HAVE TO BE PREPARED REPLY TO INEVITABLE QUESTION FROM AMAUTO-1:

HOW DID YOU FIND MY ADDRESS? SAMKO'S REPLY WOULD BE THAT HE OBTAINED ADDRESS FROM IBERIA EMPLOYEE AT AIRPORT WHO SPENT CONSIDERABLE TIME TRYING TO LOCATE AMAUTO-1 RESIDENCE. ADDRESS APPEARS IN DIP LIST AVAILABLE OVERTLY.) SAMKO WOULD FURTHER EXPLAIN, IF NECESSARY,

THAT HE DID NOT KNOW HOW EMPLOYEE GOT ADDRESS, BUT KNOWS SHE MADE NUMBER OF TELEPHONE CALLS. WE CANNOT PREDICT AMAUTO-1'S REACTION TO THIS DIRECT APPROACH. HE MIGHT CLAIM PRESS OF BUSINESS OR OTHER COMMITMENTS THEREBY REFUSING SEE SAMKO IN HOME BUT MIGHT SUGGEST THAT SAMKO VISIT EMBASSY MONDAY MORNING. SAMKO SHOULD BE PREPARED TO SAY THAT IF THIS WOULD NOT EMBARRASS AMAUTO-1 HE WOULD GLADLY CANCEL TOUR AND GO. TO USE STANDARD LINE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

PAGE 3 MADRID 1131 SECRET

THAT BECAUSE HE IS AMERICAN HE SHOULD NOT VISIT PBRUMEN EMBASSY, WOULD, WE FEEL, QUICKLY AROUSE AMAUTO-I'S SUSPICION. SAMKO'S APPROACH TO AMAUTO-I RESIDENCE CAN BE MONITORED FROM HOMES OF TWO STAFFERS WHO LIVE WITHIN EYSHOT OF AMAUTO-I'S RESIDENCE.

C. AMAUTO-I'S PROBABLE SECOND QUESTION: HOW DID SAMKO KNOW HE WAS IN MADRID? REQUIRES MORE THOUGHT AND HELP FROM MIAMI. IDEALLY, SAMKO SHOULD BE ABLE SAY THAT A MUTUAL FRIEND OF BOTH AMAUTO-I AND SAMKO WERE TOGETHER RECENTLY IN MIAMI AND AMAUTO-I'S NAME MENTIONED. SAMKO ASKED WHAT HAPPENED TO AMAUTO-1 AND FRIEND DISCLOSED THAT AMAUTO-1 NOW "AMBASSADOR" TO SPAIN. (SUBJECT WH/MIAMI7595
(IN 085476)
MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE "FRIEND" WHOSE NAME SAMKO MIGHT USE. STATION SUGGESTS THAT CONTACT BE MADE WITH SUBJECT IN LOS ANGLELES TO DETERMINE WHETHER HE KNOWS WHERE AMAUTO-1 IS. ALSO OBTAIN PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION, OCCUPATION IN LA AND PRIOR JOB IN MIAMI PLUS OTHER NOTABLE CHARACTERISTICS WHICH COULD BE USED AS FILLER BY SAMKO TO SHOW THAT POSSIBLE RELATIONSHIP EXISTED BETWEEN AMAUTO-I'S COUSIN AND SAM KO.) IN ADDITON, SUGGEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

PAGE 4 MADRID 1131 SECRET

PACHANKIS RE-CONTACT SAM KO TO ASCERTAIN NAMES OF PERSONS
IN UNITED STATES WHO KNEW AMAUTO-I AND FROM WHOM SAMKO
OSTENSIBLY MIGHT HAVE RECEIVED INFORMATION OF AMAUTO-1'S
MADRID ASSIGNMENT. WELCOME OTHER SUGGESTIONS AS REPLY
TO ABOVE QUESTION.

2. LINE SAMKO WOULD TAKE AFTER FOOT IN DOOR SHOULD
   BE THOROUGHLY REHEARSED IN MIAMI BEFORE ARRIVAL MADRID
   BECAUSE OF DI- ELEMENTA MIAMI SHOULD
   CABLE WHAT SPECIFIC
   INSTRUCTIONS ARE GIVEN TO SAMKO SO THAT STATION OFFICER
   COMPLETELY AWARE OF HOW SAMKO IS TO CONDUCT HIMSELF.

3. IN VIEW DESIRE TO INITIATE CONTACT BEFORE AMAUTO-I'S
   JUNE DEPARTURE SUGGEST CONTACT ABOVE PERSONS ASAP.

4. FILE 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET
& WILL SUE UPON 'REQUEST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TRANSMITTAL
OF
TDCS INFORMATION REPORT

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When Filled In)

ROUTING
masford
067

CA 5. CA/PIG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2. CS/DO.
DOS, FE G, FI/D, IW, FUR 5
TDCSDB-315/02487-70

DATE DISTR: 16 MAY 1970

PARA 4:
QUKETCH/22
PRECEDENCE
X ROUTINE
BASED ON (FLD. APT., PROJ.)
OSM-10026/MADR 1069
(IN 079701)
MADR-1100 (IN 082937)
QUSEQUIN/QUDOZE
Liaison: 65*

STATE
ARMY
NAVY
AIR

HANDLING INSTRUCTIONS (Place X in appropriate space. List electrical addresses.)

SEC

RECOMMEND EXO XXX

BASIC DOCUMENT NOT
MADE AVAILABLE DCI XXX

RELAY CABLE ATTACHED MADRID WH/MIAMI

SHOW IW

W DISSEM ELECTRICALLY TO:

(CORRECTION TAPE USED)

OTHER
EXCLUSIVE FOR USIB

USID PERSONAL ATTN
ZRWAHOO CABLE SENT XXX AS RELAY

NOT FOR LIAISON

FILE:
PMAUTO-1

CS INTERNAL USE ONLY

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

C/311/COG/RR
COORDINATING OFFICER(S)
E/IB/R

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
(When filed in)
RELEASING OFFICER
Robert H. Riefe
C/WH/R

COPY NO.

FORM 1K-2 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
5-69
(15-20-44-47)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# Intelligence Information Cable

IN-079701
PAGE 1 OF 4 PAGES
STATE/INR DIA NMCC/MC (SECDEF JCS ARMY NAVY AIR) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA SDO

![directorate of plans logo]

This material contains information offerting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionone Laws, Tirla 18. U.S.C. Sect. 772 and 794. the transmission of revoiation of which in any manner to on unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

10 18 00Z May 70

CITE TDCS DB-315/02487-70
DIST 18 MAY 1970

COUNTRY CUBA/SPAIN

DOI 4-6 MAY 1970

SUBJECT PROTESTS BY CUBAN EMBASSY IN SPAIN OVER ALLEGED ATTACKS ON CUBAN OFFICIALS

ACQ SPAIN, MADRID (EARLY MAY 1970)

FIELD NO. OSM 10026

SOURCE AN OFFICIAL SPANISH SERVICE; FROM A SOURCE DESCRIBED AS SENSITIVE AND USUALLY RELIABLE.

1. IN EARLY MAY 1970, THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MADRID PREPARED A PROTEST NOTE TO THE SPANISH FOREIGN MINISTRY OVER AN INCIDENT WHICH OCCURRED AT THE BARAJAS AIRPORT IN MADRID BETWEEN CUBAN REFUGEES AND CUBAN OFFICIALS, IN WHICH BLOWS WERE EXCHANGED. ACCORDING TO MINISTER GUILLERMO RUIZ, CUBAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRES, THE EMBASSY WILL CHARGE THAT SIX FUNCTIONARIES AND FOUR DIPLOMATIC COURIERS FROM HAVANA WERE PHYSICALLY ATTACKED ON 4 MAY ΑΤ ΤΗΣ AIRPORT BY DISAFFECTED CUBANS, ALL RESIDENTS OF SPAIN. THE NOTE STATED THAT "THIS COWARDLY AND UNJUSTIFIABLE AGGRESSION" ENDANGERED DIPLOMATIC

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

IN-079701
TDCSDB-315/02487-70
PAGE 2 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

DOCUMENTS AND COULD NOT BE CONSIDERED AN ISOLATED ACT BUT THE
CONSEQUENCE OF REPEATED PROVOCATIONS AT BARAJAS, SPANISH
AUTHORITIES WERE ASKED TO PREVENT A REPETITION OF THESE
INCIDENTS.

2. (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO ANOTHER UNTESTED SOURCE
   WHO WAS AN EYEWITNESS TO THE 4 MAY INCIDENT, THE CROWD INCLUDED
   23 MEMBERS OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY AND A NUMBER OF CUBAN EXPATRIATES
   MEETING AN IBERIA FLIGHT FROM HAVANA WHICH WAS CARRYING 75
   CUBAN OFFICIALS AND 30 CUBAN REFUGEES. ΜΑΧΙΚΟ TORRES,
   FORMER MAYOR OF SANTIAGO DE CUBA AND A MAN OF OVER 60 YEARS OF
   AGE, ADDRESSED ONE OF THE ARRIVING CUBAN OFFICIALS, MISTAKING
   HIM FOR A REFUGEE. THE OFFICIAL REBUFFED HIM RUDELY AND A
   GENERAL ARGUMENT ENSUED AND BLOWS WERE EXCHANGED. HORACIO
   FUENTES MARTINEZ, FIRST SECRETARY OF THE CUBAN EMBASSY,
   JUMPED FROM A NEARBY CAR AND PISTOL-WHIPPED ONE OF THE REFUGEES.
   AFTER THE POLICE ARRIVED, TORRES AND HIS WIFE NEEDED MEDICAL
   ATTENTION.)

3. ON 6 MAY, ROBERTO FRANCO OLIVA, CUBAN CONSUL
   IN MADRID, COMPLAINED TO A SPANISH POLICE INSPECTOR CONCERNING
   THE INCIDENT AT THE AIRPORT AS FOLLOWS:

A. THE SCENE AT THE AIRPORT HAD BEEN PREPARED DY THE
U.S. CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA) AND 'COUNTERREVOLUTIONARIES."
THE INSPECTOR REPLIED TO THIS THAT SPANISH AUTHORITIES WERE

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

TDCSDB-315/02487-70
PAGE 3 OF 4 PAGES
SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

INVESTIGATING AND WOULD GIVE CUBAN OFFICIALS THE PROTECTION IN
SPAIN WHICH THEY SHOULD HAVE. HE SAID THAT THREE CUBAN REFUGEES
HAD BEEN ARRESTED AND WOULD BE DEPORTED TO FRANCE. FOR THEIR
PART, THE REFUGEES HAD SAID THAT HORACIO FUENTES HAD PULLED
OUT A GUN DURING THE FIGHT, A CHARGE WHICH FRANCO DENIED AT
LENGTH.

B. MANY OTHER ATTACKS HAVE BEEN SUFFERED BY CUBAN
OFFICIALS AT THE AIRPORT AND DAMAGE DONE TO THEIR PARKED CARS,

C. WHEN CUBAN SEAMEN ARE ARRESTED BY THE SPANISH
POLICE IN THE CANARY ISLANDS THEY ARE INTERROGATED SEPARATELY
IN THE POLICE STATION BY AN AGENT OF THE CIA WHO IS A CUBAN
"GUSANO" (TURNCOAT).

D. ALTHOUGH THERE ARE SPANISH REPUBLICANS AND
SPANISH COMMUNISTS IN CUBA, THE SPANISH EMBASSY IN HAVANA IS
NEVER MOLESTED,

E. FRANCO IS PREPARED TO ADVISE CUBAN PASSENGERS
COMING TO SPAIN TO CARRY RAZORS FOR SELF DEFENSE. CUBAN OFFI-
CIALS, PARTICULARLY THOSE WHO GO TO THE AIRPORT, SHOULD APPLY
FOR LICENSES TO CARRY PISTOLS.

4. (FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO AN OFFICIAL SPANISIl
   SERVICE, CUBAN DIPLOMATS MAY APPLY FOR GUN PERMITS TO THE
   SPANISH FOREIGN MINISTRY AND WOULD PROBABLY RECEIVE PERMISSION.
   NON-DIPLOMATIC CUBANS MUST APPLY TO THE DIRECTORATE GENERA OF

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

TDCSD3-315/02487-70
PAGE 4 OF 4 PAGES

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

INTERNI SECURITY (DGS) BUT WOULD PROBABLY NOT RECEIVE
PERMISSION. TOCSDB-315/01741-70 KLPORTED THAT AS OF S APRIL
ALL CUBAN COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVES WERE CARRYING PISTOLS,
AND TILT SOURCES OF KNOWN RELIABILITY HAVE NOTED THAT CUBAN
DIPLOMATS ABROAD HAVE BEEN AUTHORIZED BY THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT
TO CARRY A SMALL HAND WEAPON.)

3. FIELD DISSEM: STATE.

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

WHO FULLE, RAN a calope fiz

C439

COURET1-1024 PAY 72 LITE THAT SEBECKER AUTING) (WMIM)

DIARSTOA INFE KADRID

TYPIC ATAUTO

104-000470

(4081546)

1.   A AT-1 , MATULL CO, PANTED
     IN SALLY MACH FOR LOS

TELEPHONE. A FROM RELATIVE OF VIGCO ΔΙΑΔΙ,
OGES (GAL JIA) DIALOG, WE DE SCT KILOW ANAUTO-1.

2.  AS 15 AUD 173, ACE DID NOT PREPARE
    CU JARY ACASTC-1 FROM VIGOJ, DUE TO LACK OF LUPA. ADOVA
    PARED P. CAJE AQS WISHES TO

3. FILE: -72-GP-1

![rectangle with many check boxes. Some check boxes are marked. Check box is labeled as  510, 423, S,2 D, 604/1/88]

CS COPY

18 may 70

201-735296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFTED CLASSIFIED MESSAGE, TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALE-OLEN
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
SECRET:
CROUP!
EXCLUO FROM ATOMATIC DOOR ADING D
When Filled In) DECLASSIFICATION
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
DISSEM BY
ACTION UNIT
30
WHS
ACTION NO.
298
FILE RID RETURN TO BRANCH
FILE, VR RIVAN EURO Fi2 Cilops ci ci/102
DDP ADOP CSDO
SECRET 151724Z MAY 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 7570 (NEBECKER ACTING)
DIRECTOR, MADRID WMIM 15 MAY 11. 084149

TYPIC AM AUTO
REFS: A. DIRECTOR 033355
B. UFAA-1978

1. IN MEETING WITH SAMKO ON 14 MAY, PACHANKIS MENTIONED
   POSSIBLE TRIP TO MADRID AS TOURIST TO HOLD "CHANCE MEETING
   WITH AMAUTO/1. SMAKO VERY ENTHUSED, FLATTERED HIS GOVERNMENT
   NEEDED HIM, AND IN POSITIVE FRAME OF MIND FOR OPERATION.
   NO FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS MADE (EXPECT WE WOULD PAY EXPENSES
   ON TRIP) AND HE APPEARS TO BE MOTIVATED TO HELP COUNTRY
   AND OLD FRIEND. AT OUR REQUEST, SAMKO HAS APPLIED FOR
   NEW PASSPORT. INCIDENTALLY, HIS WIFE PASSED AWAY ON
   6 NOV EM BER 1969.

2. WE ARE NOW IN POSITION TO DISPATCH SAMKO. PLS
   ADVISE WHEN HE IS NEEDED ON AMAUTO/1 APPROACH.

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

OK, let's go. Do you think
enough caution, "chance; and
"non politest str. hove already bezy
carletfore siste this of?
SECRET
NOT yet.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

OROVOUS
LOITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DIE NATION
TOTAL COPIES
24
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN

*SECRET*

25
WH8 FI/AN, C/ON, F12, EUR6
927
SECRET 121902Z MAY 72 CITE WH/MIAMI/75 15 (NEUECKER ACTING)
DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECTOR 230893

1. MANUEL (VIGOS) PEREZ OF PARA 3 REF IS COUSING
   OF AMAUTO-1. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOTIN-122
   ON 24 FEBRUARY. VIGOS HAS NOT SEEN AMAUTO-1 SINCE
   1963, HAS BEEN RECEIVING PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT FOR
   SEVERAL YEARS, AND IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO
   FROM VIGOS, ANOTS DID NOT PREPARE REPORT ON AMAUTO-1.

2. WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEW FOR ANY POSSIBLE
   INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

|        |
| ------ |
| AX     |
| AB     |
| IN     |
| PS     |
| RE     |
| H/C/dP |

COPY

201-735296
10 May 72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# RICHARD WHEELER:mdu

ORIG: WH/COG/OPS
EXT: R1819/7144
DATE: 11 MAY 1970

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

FILE VR SYON, EURL, DOP BODS, CS/DA, CL, C/C 2

SECRET

12 21 06 MAY 70 CITE DIRECTOR 033355

TO: WH/MIAMI INFO MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 030893 B. UFAA-1978

1. VIEW REF B, HQS SANGUINE ABOUT POSSIBILITIES OF "CHANCE" APPROACH BY SANKO TO AMAUTO-1. AS REASONABLY WELL OFF RETIRED PERSON, SANKO COULD NATURALLY GO TO MADRID AS TOURIST. HQS WONDERS WHETHER THIS WOULD HOLD WATER UNLESS WIFE ACCOMPANIED HIM. REQUEST MIAMI INVESTIGATE THIS POINT.

2. APPROACH BY SANKO WOULD ALMOST CERTAINLY NOT LEAD TO RECRUITMENT, BUT WOULD OFFER PERSONAL READING OF AMAUTO-1 BASED ON WHAT APPEARS TO BE WARM ENTREE PROVIDED BY FONDLY-REMEMBERED PAST ASSOCIATION. IF APPROPRIATE, SAMKO COULD PROVIDE LINK TO "OTHER WORLD" IN CASE AMAUTO-1 EVER NEEDED HELP. LATTER SCHEDULED TRAVEL HAVANA IN JUNE 70 AND RETURN MADRID PRIOR POSTING CUBA. JUDGING FROM ANBEDEW-1 AND ANDELAY-1 CASES, BRIEF RETURN TO CUBA MIGHT PROVE TURNING POINT IN ANY DECISION TO DEFECT. THEREFORE, ANY MEETING WITH SAMO SHOULD BE PRIOR JUNEDEPARTURE,

3. IN EVENT POSSIBLE SANKO TRAVEL TO MADRID, WE WOULD NEED CONTINUED..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

ORIGE
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE: MAY 20 11 30 AM '70
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: PER
CONFI FILE, VR,

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID
FILE IN CS FILE NO, RECEIVED RID/EDI

(classification) (data and time filed) (elite) (pica)
SECRET CITE DIRECTOR 70333537

PAGE TWO

LIST OF PLACES FREQUENTED BY AMAUTO-1 WHERE SAMKO WOULD HAVE CHANCE
"BUMP INTO" HIM. IF MADRID HAS OTHER IDEAS, WELCOME ALTERNATIVE
SCENARIO.

4. FILE: 201-735296. END OF MESSAGE

WH/COMMENT: Ref A said Hqs willing consider use of SAMKO to approach
AMAUTO-1. Ref B gave results of Miami's contacts with
SAMKO.

WILLIAM V. BROE EUR/IB JAMES E. FLANNERY
C/WHD C/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICER AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

TOTAL COPIES 24

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN

REPRODUCTION OF THE COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX: MAY 12 0 16 PM 70

CLASSIFY TO CF FILE NON-COPY

FILE RIO RETURN TO

Back to the all

FILE, VR R/ON, CI/OA, F12, EUR6 Drawing board

SECRET 12 19 02Z MAY 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 75 15 (NEBECKER ACTING)

DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECTOR 030893

1. MANUEL (VIGOS) PEREZ OF PARA 3 REF IS COUSING OF AMAUTO-1. HE WAS GIVEN CI DEBRIEFING BY AMOTIN-122 ON 24 FEBRUARY. VIGOS HAS NOT SEEN AMAUTO-1 SINCE 1963, HAS BEEN RECEIVING PSYCHIATRIC TREATMENT FOR SEVERAL YEARS, AND IS HOMOSEXUAL. DUE TO LACK OF INFO FROM VIGOS, AMOTS DID NOT PREPARE REPORT ON AMAUTO-1.

2. WILL HAVE PACHANKIS INTERVIEW FOR ANY POSSIBLE INFO MISSED BY AMOTS AND ADVISE.

3. FILE: 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

FILE:

AMAUTO-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

COMPLETED BY
CABLE SECRETARIAT
MAY 18 3 40 PM 70
LACTION COPY

WHEELGERIAN. C. alops Fi
439

SECRET 181022 MAY 76 CITE WH/MIAMI 7595 (REDECKER ACTING)
DIRECTOR INFO MADRID
TYFIC ANAUTO
REF A DIRECTOR 032895
WB(4081546)

1. AMAUTO-1/COUSIN, MANDOL (VIGO) PEKER, DEPARTED
   MIAMI SEARCH FOR LOS ANGELES. PRESENT ADDRESS
   IS 335 BEACON AVE., APT 16, LOST ANGELES 90215, NO
   TELEPHONE. ABOVE FROM RELATIVE OF VIGOS IN MIAMI,
   MERCEDES (GALICIA) DOBARROS, WHO DOES NOT KNOW AMAUTO-1.

2. AS INDICATED IN REF B, AMOTS DID NOT PREPARE
   SUMMARY ON ACAUTO-I FROM VIGOS DEBRIEFING, DUE TO LACK
   OF INFO. ABOVE ADDRESS FORWARDED IN CASE HQS WISHES TO
   PURSUE.

3. FILE: 201-755295. GP-1

Ausw. no interest.

AMAU 10-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. R FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ, GUILLERMO
201-735296
SEX M DCB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
TRAVELING HAVANA MID-JUNE FOR A MEETING
OF AMBASSADORS

201-814891
MADR-01054
08 MAY 70

UFAOIR
R 70C5190007

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-735296

FORM
# 57 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET
(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

## PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect 2 on back. Detach page and forward to RID
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation

## TO ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no below and forward document to RID AN

FROM:

BID/W VAL E-129
RID/AN CA 50
EXT. 4239 TUBE GI-7

TO ALL ADDRESSEES:
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

| TO      | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| ------- | ------- | ----------------------- | ------------------ |
| c/WH/c  |         |                         | S                  |
| Whale   |         |                         |                    |
| Lutfel  |         |                         |                    |
| Ennis   |         | Recd22 22 May May       |                    |
| Wheeler |         | 22 May May              |                    |
| Best    |         | 22 May May              |                    |
| Daryl   |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
|         |         |                         |                    |
| RID/FI  |         |                         |                    |

COMMENTS

2-3: Check w/ Chile deals to see who TELLO is. Weglo this finally is our han dle in ANAUTO.1. Don. Weglo a nous trace, but have lits seems like a tough wut in himself.

copy for ANAUTO
ch. Pls get atl.
ch. TOLLO in file heak.

+-1

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-735296

DOCUMENT DATE

7 Nov 69

DOCUMENT NUMBER

USMA 25024

SECRET

![document image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

DISPATCH

TO Chief of Station. Sentiero
INFO. Cnief, Western Hemisphere Division;
Chief, Europe Division; COS, WH/Miami
FROM Chief of Station, Madrid
SUBJECT AKULE/QUTIMID/PBRUMEN/Manuel TELLO Troncoso
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

On 29 October QUTIMID reported a conversation between Guillermo RUIZ Perez, the Cuban Minister to Spain, and Manuel TELLO Troncoso, identified in the Diplomatic List as Counsellor of Embassy, regarding the postponement until 31 October of a meeting they were to have on 29 October. We have no information on the purpose of the meeting. We note that TELLO arrived in Spain in January 1969.

Howard R. SACODER

Distribution:
2 - COS, Santiago - TO OUT Pooch
2 -C/WHD
2 - C/EUR
2- COS/WH, Miami - To out Pouch

![copy symbol] COPY

I el and to F/IB/S

| CROSS REFERENCE TO | DISPATCH SYTABOL AND NUMBER | DATE            |
| ------------------ | --------------------------- | --------------- |
|                    | OSMA 25624                  | 7 November 1969 |
|                    | SECRET                      | HOS FILE NUMBER |
|                    |                             | 201-735 296     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief of Station, Madrid

FROM
Chief of Station, WH/Liami

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING SECTION

XX
MARKING FOR INDEXING
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT
Study on Guillermo RUIZ Perez.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Reference: OSMW-11726

Forwarded herewith is a completed version by AMEDIT-2 of the study on Guillermo RUIZ Perez.

MICHAEL V. SLATINSKI

KENNETH B. TICINETO

Attachment: h/w

Distribution:
3 - COS, Madrid w/att h/w
2 - COS, WH/Miami w/att h/w

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
8 MAY 1970

OSMW-11828

REPRODUCTION
CS COPY

(5 May 1970)

Distribution:
1 - EUR/IB
1 - WH/COG/OPS
1 - WH/COG/Chron
1 - RID
1 - Originator

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
HQS FILE NUMBER
201-735296

OFFICE
ORIGINATING
WH/COG/OPS Richard Wheeler pfd EXT 7144

OFFICE SYMBOL DATE COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME
C/WH/COG 5 May 70 James E. Flannery

RELEASING
OFFICE SYMBOL DATE OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
AC/EUR/IH Glenn A. Rounsevell

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2 RI FILE NO.

3 DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4 DATE

7 SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8 DATE OF INFO. 9 EVALUATION

5 ANALYST 6 DATE PROCESSED 10 DISSEMINATED IN 11 DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12 CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13 TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ PEREZ, ORESTES GUILLERMO 201-866054
201-735256 UFAA-C 978
SEX M COB ? 04 MAY 70

CIT ?
OCC ?
INFO AS REPORTED BY SUBJECT OF 201-866054

OSM R 7005110495

15 FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-235296

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS SECRET
9-57 (7-45)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 24
ROUTING AND INITIALS SENT
SECRET
ACTION COPY
WH 8 FILE, VA RI/AN, EURS, el, cl/005, cl/1c2, FLZ

SECRET 081046Z MAY 70 CITE MADRID 1054
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI ROME
TYPIC AMMEDIA QUDOZE 8 MAY N079059

1. FROM QUSEQUIN/QUDOZE 6 MAY:

A. CARLOS ALFARAS, CUBAN AMBASSADOR LEBANON AND
SYRIA, TOLD ANTOLIN (PROBABLY ANTOLIN ALFONSO CASTENEDA),
CUBAN EMBASSY ROME THAT HE (ALFARAS) AND WIFE SCHEDULED FLY
MADRID/ROME 9 MAY IBERIA FLIGHT 358. ANTOLIN SAID THAT
SALVADOR VILASECA, AMBASSADOR ITALY, IN CUBA FOR WEEK'S
VACATION; EXPECTED RETURN ROME 6 MAY ALITALIA 366.

B. GUILLERMO RUIZ, CHARGE IN MADRID, SAID HE TRAVELING
HAVANA MID-JUNE FOR A MEETING OF AMBASSADORS.

2. FILE 201-814891, 201-7352996, 201-759701. GP-1

SECRET

Extract for 2012

FILE:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

RICHARD WHEELER;pfd
Wil/COG/OPS
R1819
1 MAY 1970

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY 34/21 PER

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS
SAEN BY

SECRET

MADRID

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: A. WH/MIAMI 7346 (IN 072939)
B. DIRECTOR 021639

1. REF A REPRESENTS LEAD TO AMAUTO-1 WHICH HQS WILLING
   PURSUE IF MADRID THINKS WORTH WHILE. ALTHOUGH SAMKO DID NOT
   INDICATE RELATIONSHIP WAS VERY DEEP, QUTIMID/QUDOZE TRAFFIC SEEMS
   TO INDICATE AMAUTO-1 LOOKED ON SAMKO WITH GREAT DEAL NOSTALGIA.
   MUCH DEPENDS ON MADRID'S OTHER PLANS THROUGH SUBJECT REF B (201-866047).
   REQUEST STATUS YOUR CONTACT WITH HIM AND PLANS.

2. RECENT REVIEW OF AMAUTO-1 TAPES BY AMEDIT-2 SHOW THAT
   AMAUTO-1 MAINTAINS CONTINUING RELATIONSHIP WITH QUSEQUIN-82.
   AMEDIT-2 COMMENTS THAT QUSEQUIN-82 KNOWS AMAUTO-1 PERSONALLY AND
   SEES HIM RATHER OFTEN BUT PRESUMABLY IN LINE OF DUTY. HQS INTERESTED
   IN NATURE AND EXTENT THIS RELATIONSHIP. VIEW QUSEQUIN-82 COMMENTS
   REPORTED IN OSMA-23624, ATTACHMENT 1, STATION MIGHT USE THIS
   RELATIONSHIP TO APPROACH AMAUTO-1.

3. REPORT DATED 27 MAR 70 WAS DEBRIEFING OF MANUEL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

DATE: MAY 7 10 23 AM '71
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY: RID/EDI
CONFI

PAGE TWO

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 7530193

(VIGOS) PEREZ, 30-YEAR OLD CUBAN WHO ARRIVED MIAMI BY AIR ON 20 FEB 70. VIGOS CLAIMS TO BE UNIDENTIFIED CLOSE RELATIVE OF AMAUTO-1 BUT HAS AMAUTO-1'S HISTORY SOMEWHAT GARBLED. VIGOS ALSO SAYS THAT ONE OSVALDO RUIZ PEREZ, DESCRIBED AS BROTHER OF AMAUTO-1, HAS ASKED TO LEAVE CUBA AND IS NOW IN CANE FIELDS. WH/MIAMI REQUESTED TO CHECK THESE LEADS.

4. FILE 201-735296. END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT: Ref A said that SAMKO, Miami butcher who old acquaintance of AMAUTO-1. has been located and willing travel to Madrid if necessary. Ref B is POA grant for one Carlos CARRASCO, whom Madrid plans to use somehow to get to AMAUTO-1.

JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, European Division

Chief of Station, WE/Miami

Chief of Station, Madrid

CUT IND QUDOZE

Sonia GOMEZ Aragon, Cuban MINREX Official

AR: None, FYI. Please assign 201 number

References: A. MADRID 0473

B. WH/MIAMI 6576

C. DIRECTOR 011307

1.  The following information about Subject's trip to Spain and her activities while here was obtained from QUTIMID and QUDOZE.

2.  Subject arrived in Madrid on 10 February 1970. She traveled to Barcelona during the week of 23 February and returned to Madrid 6 March whereupon she then left for Portugal. She returned to Kadrid on 17 March and waited for Guillermo EUIZ Perez' return from the Spanish/Cuban Commercial nego- tiations in Cuba. Sonia departed Madrid for Cuba en 27 March 1970.

It appears that she intended to travel to Vienna, Austria next, since several cables were sent to Vienna froz Madrid advising Sonia's travel status. During her stay in Spain, Sonia was in frequent contact with one Jose Agustin GOYTISOLO, Spanish writer in Barcelona, telephone 228-4063 (Station traces are OSBA 02385, 17 February 1965; OSBA 02718, 11 August 1967; and OSBA 02795, 1 March 1968). She was not known to have been in contact with any other locals and what little time she had for diversion she spent with the mission officers and their wives.

Distribution:

2 - C/WHD

3 - C/EUR

2 - COS, WH/Miami

...continued

OSMA - 26218

13 May 1970

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CONTINUATION O'
DISPATCH

SECRET

CSMA - 26214

3. The purpose of Sonia's trip to Madrid was to discuss the 1970 work plan for the Embassy with the Charge, Guillermo RUIZ Perez. She also talked with the various Embassy officials, most probably to familiarize herself with their duties and to see if they had any problems. She pitched in and helped with the backlogged work of Orestes BARREDA and Horacio FUENTES and also helped with the cultural activities. For instance, she sent two cables to MINREX - one regarding the forwarding of movie posters for a March exhibit and another regarding the forwarding of a Cuban stamp exhibition by end March.

4. In their discussion of the 1970 work plan Sonia told RUIZ that they were going to plan the February, March, and April quarter. She showed him "an agenda for the control of planned and unplanned activities" and the general directives of the plan which included scientific information and political information, with specific directives (requirements) for Spain. RUIZ has to prepare for Havana 2 monthly report, then a quarterly summary, of the activities accomplished. Based on these reports the activities of the following quarter will be planned.

a. In line with the plan of scientific information, Sonia and RUIZ discussed the pros and cons of a Comite Cientifico-Tecnico which is to be set up in Madrid. RUIZ was of the opinion that the local (Spanish) Communist Party would try to infiltrate it and this would bring problems to the Embassy. Sonia poiated out the successes encountered in Switzerland and Sweden with such a committee even though at first there were problems which were later overcome.

b. Sonia showed RUIZ a commercial project which she planned to take to Portugal and asked him to read it because it was also of interest to the Cuban mission in Spain.

c. Sonia mentioned that the Plan of Information was still to be completed especially in the priority categories of livestock and economy.

d. They turned next to the topic of the budget. Sonia said that the budget for each mission had to be submitted before the end of April (every year) and no additional expenditures could be submitted for approval during the course of the year. Spain, Canada, and France, however, would be treated individually. Their special needs, such as acquisition of more office space, raises in cost of living allowances, etc., would be taken into consideration at any time.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

5. During their various discussions RUIZ aired his complaint about the Visa Department in Havana saying that the department was practically worthless and that last year 76 cables regarding visas remained unanswered. Senia defended the Ministry saying that it had a lot of work to do, but RUIZ replied that they wanted to work only 8 hours a day. They also discussed the scholarship situation. It seems that during an interview between PRIETO (Probably Jose PRIETO Renitez, Director of Foreign Relations of the DAP) and the Minister of Public Works, PRIETO was asked to provide a list of scholarship candidates to be considered and he had none. Sonia mentioned that in Belgium they also lost four scholarships because of this game reason.

6. According to QUTIMID Sonia GOMEZ Aragon is married to one Miguel (LNU) and has a daughter named Iliana. Sonia's mother is still living although appeared to be very ill at the time Sonia left for her trip to Hadrid because Sonia cabled at least twice to Havana inquiring about the status of her mother's hesith. (TYLOTE reported that Sonia's home phone number in Havana is 7-4263.) Perhaps Headquarters can determine the full name of her husband by checking the reverse telephone listings Sonia is attractive, intelligent, sertious-minded and reserved. The last time she visited Spain she stayed with Vera BORODOWSKI and was on the same type of mission as the present one to discuss the Madrid Embassy's work plan. She also visited the Barcelona Consulate and the Cuban Embassy in Lisbon.

Helen B. NOTHDURFT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296) file

Since Headquarters has recently prepared an extensive analysis on RUIS for the information of addressees, an additional review has been omitted. However, the attached biographic study should be useful.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

30 April 1970

NAME:
Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296)
(NOTE: A comprehensive study/analysis
on RUIZ was prepared in February 1970,
see OSMW-11726.)

ALIAS:
Also uses Guillermo RUIZ Perez

DPOB:
10 February 1930, Havana

PRESENT
POSITION:
Minister, Charge d'Affaires, Cuban Embassy,
Madrid, since December 1967.

WIFE:
Nilda VECIANA Lopez (DPOB: 26 December 1934,
Havana)

CHILDREN:
Five sons, and a sixth child due to be
born April/May 1970, Guillermo, the oldest,
in school in Cuba. Alejandro, Julio,
Juan Carlos and Ivan with their parents in
Madrid.

PHYSICAL
DESCRIPTION:
White, variously described as 5'5" - 5'7"
tall, and 170-190 pounds, stout build;
round face, fair complexion, blond slightly
wavy hair, light-colored eyes (also reported
as blue and green), wears glasses. No
visible identifying marks. Well dressed.

PERSONALITY:
Perhaps a relative's description of RUIZ
sums up his personality - "a man of many
moods." He has variously been described
as intelligent, mentally alert, competent,
hardworking, and respected by his subordinates.
Pleasant, easy going, nervous, quick-tempered,
brusque but sincere, opinionated, strong-minded
idealistic, self-confident. Has basic
emotional instability, gives impression
of being insecure in his position. At times
sarcastic, indifferent, egotistical, cynical,
serious, ungrateful and cold, who,
paradoxically, appears friendly to some people.
Outspoken, compulsive talker, articulate,
limited vocabulary, swears a good deal.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

He can turn on considerable charm, where motivated. In contrast to his pleasant public image and acceptable language, private conversation is vulgar, swears continually and flies into rages.

Likes good living and spends money where it shows. Avid reader, keeps abreast of world events, shows willingness to accept whatever he deems to be good or useful from the outside world. Concerned with the image and prestige of Cuba in Spain. Emotionally committed to an ideal. An AMEDIT study summed RUIZ up as a realist. He speaks English and French. His wife, a teacher, always worked before going to Spain, and there works as a secretary and bookkeeper at the Embassy on an informal basis. Appears intelligent, competent, outspoken but solicitious and affectionate with her husband; interested in, and encourages him in his work. Appears to support the regime, but not a fanatic. RUIZ is the dominant personality of the two.

EDUCATION:

One reference states that he went to work at age 14, which suggests lack of formal education. In 1960 as an employee of the Ministry of the Treasury, selected to attend a statistics course offered by CEPAL, which lasted two years.

One relative reported he completed elementary education at "Hermanos Maristas" school in Havana; did not know whether he attended high school, but said in early days of the Castro regime attended the University of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

Havana.

Another relative said his primary and secondary education was received in private institutions, and that he has a degree in "political economics" from the University of Havana.

He is well versed in world affairs and has an understanding of international trade.

PREVIOUS POSITIONS:

Vice Minister, MINCEX, 1964-1967.

Commercial Counselor, Cuban Embassy, Mexico City. Although he was accredited to that position in December 1963, travel indicates he was in Mexico from August 1963 to May 1964. Other references indicate he was in that position in September 1963.

Ministry of the Treasury. In April 1962 he was Chief of the Department of Construction Expenses Studies, Office of Financial Statistics of that ministry. He was with the ministry as early as 1960, when he was selected to attend the statistics course.

During the Batista regime he was in exile. Came to the U.S. sometime in the 1950's and apparently remained for some time before he left in February 1957, when, according to some reports, he entered Cuba clandestinely. Also reported to have been in exile in Mexico.

LNYUMA records show he came to U.S. on 8 November 1956 to see his brother, left 17 November for the Dominican Republic where he received five months military training. Returned to the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Percz

POLITICAL
ATTITUDE:

U.S. 5 April 1957, overstayed his time, and on 11 February 1958 was ordered deported; claimed he would be killed if he returned to Cuba and did not show for deportation. Subsequent investigation showed he was in Cuba as of 2 March.

A member of the Cuban Communist Party, admitted on the recommendation of Armando IHART Davalos, Secretary of Organization. Although he has been described as a militant Communist, a convinced supporter of the Castro regime and a fanatic Fidelista, there is evidence to dispute this image. An analysis of available information indicates that he is not a convinced Marxist, he cannot accept Party discipline, and that his character is basically incompatible with the system he serves.

His father is reported to be an old-guard Communist and a leader of the barber's union. A brother reported to be a member of DSE in 1946.

He expressed dissatisfaction with his position as a diplomat, feels his talents are wasted and would like a position in commerce or industry, where he considers he could better serve the revolution. Has criticized the bureaucracy and inefficiency in the government in Havana.

He has said that many Cuban diplomats want to stay out of Cuba, but it seemed to him that the Cuban government wanted to keep him (RUIZ) out of the way (i.e., outside Cuba). That LEON had appointed him, supported him, and they are good friends, but that he (RUIZ) does not like to work with a man who one does not get to know, nor to know what he is thinking. He said he felt as if he were in Miami.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

INTELLIGENCE
CONNECTIONS:

In May 1964 AMMUG-1 reported RUIZ
was a DGI case officer in Mexico for
operations targetted against "some
nearby area," and later identified
his photograph as DGI member in Mexico.

In 1961 an emigre said RUIZ, with the
Finance Ministry, was a Communist and.
G-2.

AMTIKI-1 said a letter from a friend
in Cuba stated that RUIZ, then in
Mexico, was a member of G-2, sent to try
to infiltrate counterrevolutionary
groups (1963).

In April 1968, RUIZ advised Aristides
DIAZ Rovirosa on the use of disguises,
the need to "live secretly" and
commented on DIAZ' being "already
clandestine."

The Cuban Ambassador to Geneva, in
1968, commented on RUIZ' refusal to
accept DGI dominance of the Cuban Embassy,
Madrid. (AMDELAY-1). In July 1969,
AMBEDEW-1 said RUIZ was very dictatorial
in his dealings with DGI officers.

CONTACTS:

Not much is known of his contacts in
Madrid, other than official. Is in
touch with Ahmed LAIDI, Algerian
Ambassador; Manuel TELLO Troncoso,
Counselor of Chilean Embassy, Madrid;
Alexandru PETRESCU, Romanian Minister to
Spain and Carlos CARRASCO Munoz de Vera,
a lawyer and personal friend.

TRAVELS:

1963: Aug. To Mexico

22 Nov. Mexico-Cuba

29 Nov. Cuba-Mexico

8 Dec. Cuba-Mexico

1964: 21 May. Mexico-Cuba

1967: 13 Dec. Cuba-Spain


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

16 Jan. Netherlands-Spain

27 July Spain-France

31 July France-Spain

6 Aug. Spain-Cuba (via Ireland, Canada)

29 Aug. Cuba-Spain

21 Nov. Spain-Cuba

10 Dec. Cuba-Spain

1969: 27 Feb. France-Spain

27 Feb. Spain-Dominican Republic

11 Mar. Spain-Switzerland

4 Aug. Spain-Cuba

17 Sept. Cuba-Spain (via French
West Indies, Azores)

10 Oct. Spain-Cuba

29 Oct. Cuba-Spain

14 Nov. Spain-UK

16 Nov. UK-Spain

28-30 Nov. Two-day trip by auto to
San Sebastian and Burgos

6 Jan 70. To Italy, returning by auto.

Also claims to have been in North
Vietnam as a member of a trade mission
(QUDOZE).

ASSESSMENT: It appears that RUIZ might well be responsive
to an approach, with consideration given to
the manner in which it is undertaken, the
timing and the person involved.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez

ACCESS:

MISCELLANEOUS:

Although RUIZ' health has been described as generally good, he suffers from a back ailment which resulted from a fall in 1955 and which has been diagnosed as incurable. Also he suffers from a liver ailment for which he takes medicine.

RUIZ is scheduled to return to Cuba in mid-1970, where he expects to be with MININT, rather than MINREX or MINCEX.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE • TOTAL COPIES?
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

GROUP 1
EXCL VS FOM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION
5
2
6
3
7
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
8
INDEX: YES NO

BY:
AT: Z
DISSEM BY
PER 0
ACTION UNIT
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
X-REF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID RETURN TO BRANCH
WH8 FILE, VR RI/AN, FURG, C/LOPS, FI/
ACTION NO.
798

SECRET 291535Z APR 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 7346 29 APR INFO 72939
DIRECTOR INFO MADRID
TYPIC AMAUTO
REF A WH/MIAMI 7304 (4070131)
B UFAA-1978

1. SAMKO SHOWN PHOTOS OF AMAUTO-1 AND REMARKED,
   "WHY, THIS IS WILLIAM." REMEMBERED AMAUTO-1 AS NICE
   CLEAN-CUT BOY WITH HIGH IDEALS. WHILE THERE WAS
   PROBABLY FATHER-SON RELATIONSHIP, SAMKO DID NOT
   RECOGNIZE IT AS SUCH.

2. SAMKO IS WILLING TO TRAVEL TO MADRID TO TALK
   WITH AMAUTO-1. HE HAS AN EXPIRED PASSPORT. WAS TOLD
   INTERVIEW WAS EXPLORATORY AND PACHANKIS WOULD RECONTACT
   IF SAMKO SERVICES WERE NEEDED,

3. POUCHING ABOVE CONTACT REPORT, ALONG WITH
   REF A CONTACT REPORT, VIA REF B.

4. FILE: 201-866054 AND 201-735296. GP-1

SECRET

CS COPY
SECRET
201-735296
29apr 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief of Station, Madrid;
Chief, European Division

FROM
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

SUBJECT
TYPIC AMAUTO
Interview of Alexander SAMKO

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INTISXING

NO INDEX CUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED OFSK
CAN JUTIGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENDIS
Action Required: Para 2 below

References: A. DIRECTOR 026320,
B. WH/MIAMI 7304
C. WH/MIAMI 7346

1. Forwarded herewith are two contact reports submitted by Henry S. PACHANKIS on his interviews with Alexander SAMKO (201-866054) concerning Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296). Both contact reports are self-explanatory and were summarized in References B and C.

2. Please advise if WH/Miami should pursue the matter of contact between SANKO and RUIZ in Madrid. If so, the Station suggests that PACHANKIS accompany SAVKO to Madrid as his handler.

Melvin D. KERSCHEN

Attachments:
A. Contact Report, 21 April 1970
B. Contact Report, 28 April 1970

Distribution:
3 - Chief, WHD w/atts h/s (in dupl)
2 - COS, Madrid w/atts h/w (in dupl)
2- Chief, EUR w/atts h/w (one copy)

CROSS REFERENCE 10
201-735296

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFAA-1978

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
MAY 4 1977
29 April 1970

HQS FILE NUMBER
201-866054


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)