# CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL USE ONLY

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel Page 6
Monday - 1 May 1978

## HSCA

25. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Herb Romerstein, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to set up an appointment (Tuesday, 16 May at 1400 hours) to meet with Dave Millbank and Ed Mickolus, ORPA/International Issues, on the subject of terrorism and the Fourth International. This was set up via Pat Taylor, NFAC/CSS. The meeting will take place in 3F30.

Herb indicated that the Committee would probably hold hearings on terrorism in late May or early June and said that they would like to start off with an open session. I told him that an open session for CIA on the subject of terrorism would probably cause us some difficulty and suggested the possibility of an open statement, followed by a closed session as a middle ground.

26. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Alan Brown, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to discuss the issue of providing the Committee with codeword cover sheets and the removal of the safe and am waiting for Alan to call me back with regard to whether or not the Committee wishes to be included in the USG number control system which the Office of Security manages.

27. (Unclassified - MMP) LIAISON Called Joyce Early, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to ask what the House recess schedule will be and was told that the House would be in recess from 1-9 July (Independence recess); from 18 August to 5 September (summer recess); and that 6 September would be the end of the session.

28. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called Loch Johnson, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence staff, to respond to his question on what the impediment to CIA's destruction of files (mostly CI files on U.S. citizens) was. I told him that the House Select Committee on Assassinations had strongly urged us not to.

29. (Confidential - MMP) LIAISON Called the office of Joe DiGeorgio, GAO, International Division, to tell him that the six intelligence reports that his people had requested from the Buenos Aires Station would be made available to his regional office in Panama, with one possible exception.

CONFIDENTIAL
INTERNAL USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)