# 104-10529-10329 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UNIT: FS/CIOP
EXT: 5601
INDEX:
NO INDEX
ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963; FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-736701

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONT: C/FE 6

INFO: ADOPT, C/CT, C/FT 2, C/WH-5, D/OS 2, RF, IVR

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXI
INFO:

CITE DIR: 75338

KAPOK LCHAIRNEST

REF MEXI 6488 (IN 38148)

1. LIARO SZU CH’ENG 2733 1835 2052, 201-736731 BORN 1901, TOKYO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH. MEMBER CCP.

BACKGROUND:

1923 BA TSINGHUA UNIV

26 BA, MA UNIV PEKING

28 MA HARVARD

28-31 PROF AT NATIONAL NORTHERSASTERN UNIV, CHINA

31-41 RESEARCH FELLOW, INSTITUTE OF CHINESE COMMUNIST AFFAIRS

32-33 PROF NATIONAL PEKING UNIV; PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV, PEKING

41-43 RESEARCH FELLOW, ACADEMIA SINICA

46 PROF NATIONAL TSINGHUA UNIV, PEKING

47 HONORARY PROF YALE: VISITING PROF YALE

50-61 MEMBER OF TSINGHUA UNIV

55-61 HEAD OF DEPT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE

TSINGHUA; VICE PRESIDENT ARCHITECTURE SOCIETY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIG: HECKY FRANK
UNIT: FB/CXOB
EXT: 5661
DATE: 12 October 1963

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF:

INFO:

TO IMMEDIATE

INFO CITE DIR 7533

56 ASSOC, DEFENSE CIVIL AND ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING, ACADEMY OF SCIENTIFIC EVR, REFUGE

DEC 58 REVIEW CONMITTEE, SHANGHAI INTERNAL COMMITTEE, CHINA DEMOCRATIC LEAGUE

SEP 50 MEMBER NATIONAL COMMITTEE CHINA SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL ASSOC

APR 59 DEPUTY SECOND NATIONAL PEOPLE'S CONGRESS FROM PEKING; MEMBER STANDING COMMITTEE, THIRD NATIONAL COMMITTEE CPPCC

OCT 62 VICE CHAIRMAN CHINA ARCHITECTURAL SOCIETY

SEP 63 DEPUTY LEADER OF CPR DELEGATION TO SEVENTH INTER-
NATIONAL CONGRESS OF ARCHITECTS, HAVANA

2. HE SELF CRITICISM FOLLOWING REMARKS FROM LIANG'S SPEECH TO THE HPC, JULY 13 1957 ENTITLED "WHY I LOVE OUR PARTY". DEPUTY LIANG, AFTER DESCRIBING "THE BRILLIANT INDUSTRIAL, AGRICULTURAL, SCIENTIFIC, AND CULTURAL ACHIEVEMENTS OF OUR NATION," TOLD OF HIS PAST ANXIETY AND PERPLEXITY IN HIS OWN WORK. HE SAID THAT AT THE TIME HE HAD USED OUT-DATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES TO TEACH THE FORMER INSTRUCTORS AND STUDENTS OF THE TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY BECAUSE HE WAS BOTHERED.

(CONTINUED)

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ORIG: BECKY FRANK

UNIT: FI/CIOP

EXT: 5601

DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CON:

INFO:

PAGE THREE

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXI INFO CITE DIR

BY THE STATEMENT THAT EVERYTHING OF THE PARTY WAS GOOD. HE SAID THAT AFTER HE HAD WRITTEN ARTICLES, MADE REPORTS, AND DELIVERED LECTURES OF HIS ANTIQUATED ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES, HE SUDDENLY DISCOVERED THAT HE WAS A RATIONAL TARGET FOR REPUTATION. HE SAID "I WAS DOWNHEARTED. I HAVE NO QUARREL WITH THE PARTY."

I WAS SURE I WAS BEING SUBJECTED TO CRITICISM BECAUSE MY ARCHITECTURAL THEORIES DID NOT FIT INTO THE NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM. MY PAIN WAS AS DEEP AS THAT OF A CHILD BEING PUNISHED BY HIS MOTHER. WHY? BECAUSE I TRUSTED OUR PARTY AS MUCH AS I HAD TRUSTED MY MOTHER. THE PARTY, HOWEVER, WAS VERY PATIENT WITH ME. AFTER I CAL STRAIGHTENED OUT MY SHOULDERS, I ADMITTED MY MISTAKES."

HE SAID: "I WAS A PRODIGAL SON. AFTER THIS EDUCATION, I WILL NEVER LEAVE OUR PARTY --- NOT EVEN A STEP AWAY FROM IT."

(CONTINUED)

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

GROUP 1 Excluded from Automatic downgrading and declassification

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEGRET

ORIG: RICKY FRANK
UNIT: FE/CIOP
EXT: 5661
DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1963

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

ROUTING

1
4
2
5
3
6

DEFERRED
ROUTINE

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONT:
INFO:

PAGE FOUR

TO: IMMEDIATE MEXI
INFO
CITE DIR: 75338

3. STPLATE 1 (IDEN) WAS SCREENED BIHER LIAND AP UNIV YALE OF OPINION THAT LIANG WOULD NOT ACCEPT RECRUITMENT IN PLACE BUT THERE IS CHANCE HE WOULD DEFECT IF OFFERED CHANCE LIVE CONSIDE CHINA. HAS CONSIDERS LIANG CA:: CANDIDATE FOR DENTIFYING CS DERECTOR. DOUBTFUL, FOR AIDE AND BACKGROUD TEST WOULD MAKE GOOD IN PLACE AGENT.

b. SENDING STPLATE 1 TO WORK UNDER STABLESS DIRECTION AS A POSSILE ERIDGE TO LIANG. STPLATE 1 LONG TIME NEWARK CONTACT BUT IS NOT TRAINED CASE OFFICER. HAS BEEN USED PRINCIPALLY IN SEARCH WORK IN PAST.. *MAY BE* GARDENING REFILL= FURTHER BACKGROUND.

5. STPLATE 1 WILL USE TOURIST COVER AND WILL REMAIN ONLY TWO DAYS DUE HEAVY FARGONAL COS CONSEQUENCES. HIS FUNCTION WILL BE TO USE PAST FRIENDSHIP TO ATTEMPT ESTAZLISH CONTACT LIANG YARD DETERMINE WHETHER LIANG INTERESTED DEFECTION. IF SO STATION SHOULD BE PREPARED SAFEHOUSE UNTIL FURTHER STEPS CAN BE TAKEN.

6. STPLATE 1 ARRIVING MEKI 12 OCTOBER 2165 HOURS VIA EASTERN:: AIR LINES FLITE 305. HAVE BRIEFED HIM WILL BE MET BY SABSKED. STPLATE 1

![coordinating officers]

(CONTINUED)

![Group 1 description]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ESUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

Cco, Na


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SEORLT

PAGE FIVE

KI FRANK
FE/CIOP
5661
12 OCTOBER 1963

IMMEDIATE MEXI
WILL WEAR RED WHITE BLUE TIE. IF CONTACT MISSED STPLATE 1 TO PROCEED
CITY AND CONTACT MARINE GUARD AT EMBASSY ASKING FOR SABSEED. AUTHORIZE
STATION ADVANCE OPERATIONAL FUNDS AND PER DIEM AS NECESSARY TO STPLATE 1
SINCE NO OPPORTUNITY DO SO HERE. CHARGE LCHARVRST OOA.

END OF MESSAGE

FI Staff Lloyd George (by phone)

DC/PED/OS Steve Kubn (by phone)

CI Staff L. Mertz (by phone)

DCFE(C)

C/WE/3 J. Whitten (by phone)

![signature of William Cox]
William Cox
CPE

RAPORD W. HERBERT
DC/WHD

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)