# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: DIPECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CIFY

ACTION: 8

INFO: O, ADDP, DODS/L, DODS 4, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CA/C 4, CI/OPS, 1, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/O, FI/INT 2, 1
LE, WE 4, WH, DD/1, AD/CI 2, AD/NE, AU/RR 3, VR.

SECRET 2100302 DEC 21 Ø1472 63 IN 85247

DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEX! 7480

INTEL TYPIC DESIGNET

REF DIR 70123

SUPDATA SOURCE DESIGNET FROM ITALINA AND FRENCH AMEASSADORS TO CUBA, CUBAN MERCHANTS AND SUGAR EXPERTS

FILED 21/00352

REPORT CLASS SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM HMM-8185 SUBJECT EFFORTS OF CUBAN GOVERNMENT TO INITIATE COMMERCIAL BARTER WITH WEST EUROPEAN CONTRIES DOI DEC 63 PADA MEXICO MEXICO CITY 20 DEC 63 APR 3 SOURCE WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESSMAN WHO TRAVELS FREQUENTLY TO CUBA WHERE HIS COMPANY MAINTAINS COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.

> [Figure] A section of the document containing comment about dissemination of the attacks, portion and release by the action unit.

RELEASING INFO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

BASED ON

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, USC Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

COUNTRY

SUBJECT

DATE OF INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ.

APPRAISAL

SOURCE

REPORT NO. TDCS

DATE DISTR.

PRECEDENCE

REFERENCES IN 85247

FIELD REPORT NO.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT HAS RENEWED NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE
   PAYMENT OF DEBTS RESULTING FROM EXPROPRIATIONS MADE FROM CERTAIN
   WESTERN EUROPEAN BUSINESS INTERESTS. THE CUBAN MINISTRY OF FOREIGN
   TRADE IS TRYING TO INTEREST WEST GERMANY, ITALY AND FRANCE IN
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES SO THAT A FAVORABLE ATMOSPHERE WILL PREVAIL
   AT THE TIME OF THE COMPLETION OF THE SUGAR CROP HARVEST IN MARCH
   1964, WHEN THE COMMODITY IS NORMALLY MARKETED. NEGOTIATIONS FOR
   REPARATIONS ARE TAKING FORM IN CUBAN OFFERS TO SELL TOBACCO AT
   DISCOUNT PRICES.

2. IN ORDER OF PRIORITY, THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT IS TRYING TO OBTAIN

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

TELEGRAM INFORMATION REPORT TELEGRAM

![Stamp with initials and numbers]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION - ORGANIZATION CONTROLS

TDOO                                           IN 85217
PAGE 2

FERTILIZER, TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES, AND CHEMICAL PRODUCTS IN
EXCHANGE FOR SUCAR ON A STRAIGHT DARTER DEAL. THE CUCAN COVERNMENT
EXPECTS A CUKCER CROP IN 1964 WHICH, IF COLD AT THE AVERACE
WORLD PRICE OF 8 CENT A POUND (US CURRENCY), SHOULD PRODUCE
ABOUT 600 MILLION DOLLARS (US) IN CREDITS.

3. FIELD CONCKENT. SOURCE SAID THAT EXAMINATION OF THE CROP
   CONFIRMS THAT IT IS ONE OF THE DEST CUDA HAS HAD IN YEARS.

4. FIELD DISSEM STATE ECON CINCSO.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)