14-00000
104-10164-10054 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 29 NOVEMBER 1976

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)

FBI FILE NO: 105-21947 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DISPATCH

Crief, Latin Aserica 11810

Chief of Station, Cultor Crater of Station, Sokola Co

Chief of base, juayaquil TPS

Orlando BOSCH Avila (Efrain LEITONE)

Forwarded herewith are two photographs of **Orlando Bosch Avila**, Cuban exile pilot who is believed to be traveling on a Colombian passport using the alias*Errain Lettone*. During the recent OAS Conference in Quito, Ecuadorean immigration officials added Bosch to the Ecuadorean watchlist of known and extremely dangerous terrorists. The photographs were provided by PJEREEZY-3.

Theodore E. KUVALLIS

Attachment:

As stated above h/w

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - C/LAD w/att
1 - COS, Quito w/att
1 - COS, Bogota w/ett

![RECORD COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

![photo of a man in suit and tie with glasses]

> [Figure: A photo of a man in suit and tie with glasses]

DOC. MICCO. SEN.
DEC 29 14
MICROFILMED

RECORD COPY

Nw ad #1 to HEGA-04688

201-0299392
13 Dec 74

L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 29 NOVEMBER 1974

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: UNKNOWN SURJECT; ROMB RECEIVED IN MAIL
AT POST OFFICE, MADRID, SPAIN...

FBI FILE NO: 105-22456 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

CABLE SEC DISSE 18

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED-SLOTTED Doctoo not. 2305

ACTION UNIT LAB
FILE WG, epstint.

## TOTAL COMMS 26-2

ZY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF PREFERENCE

PAGE 21

IN 423538

TORI 2222592 NOV 74 CARA 26354

SECRET 2222482 NOV 74 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 26854

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, SANTO DOMINGO INFO PRIORITY QUITO, LA/MIAMI.

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 15971(IN421799)

1. VENEZUELAN LIAISON ADVISES THAT ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA IS IN CURACAO. STATION DOES NOT YET KNOW

CIRCUMSTANCES OF BOSCH'S MOVE FROM VENEZUELA TO CURACAO, BUT HOPE OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFO NIGHT 22 NOVEMBER'.

2. GOV WAS FULLY AWARE THAT PERSON THEY DETAINED WAS BOSCH EVEN THOUGH HE WORE DISGUISE AND CARRIED VALID DOMINICAN PASSPORT, WHEN U.S. DEPT OF JUSTICE DECIDED NOT EXTRADITE BOSCH, VENEZUELANS WERE SOMEWHAT UNSURE WHAT TO DO WITH HIM. THEIR CASE AGAINST BOSCH FOR COMPLICITY IN LOCAL AND QUITO BOMBINGS WAS LARGELY HEARSAY: THIS COUPLED WITH POTENTIAL ADVERSE REACTION FROM LOCAL CUBAN EXILE COMMUNITY IF ATTEMPT MADE TO PROSECUTE, PROBABLY MADE EXPLUSION TO DOM REP (FEIGNING IGNORANCE OF IDENTITY): AN ATTRACTIVE ALTERNATIVE. WHETHER HE HAS NOW BEEN EXPELLED ONLY SO FAR AS CURACAO OR TO SOME FURTHER POINT (INCLUDING

SECRET RECORD COPY

![Travel Program Chart]

201-0299312
Da Nov 44


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CABLE DEC SEMEN BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ARRANGE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR

ACTION

T 592818 EIA298
PAGE 82-02
TOR12222592 NOV 74
IN 423932
CARA 26254

DOMINICAN REPUBLIC) IS NOT YET KNOWN. IF IT IS VENEZUELAN INTENTION TO SEND BOSCH TO DOM REP, THE COURSE MAY BE CLOSED TO THEM IF THEY ACKNOWLEDGE TO GODR THEIR AWARENESS BOSCH TRUE IDENTITY AND RESULTANT OBVIOUS FALSITY OF DOM REP PASSPORT. STATION DOES NOT WISH TO ACT AS BROKER TO PUT GOV ON OFFICIAL NOTICE, ON BEHALF OF GODR, THAT SUBJECT IS BOSCH AND THEREBY COMPLICATING 30V HANDLING OF MATTER.

3. FYI STATION UNILATERAL SOURCE IN DIRECT CONTACT WITH BOSCH PRIOR TO HIS ARREST, SAID BOSCH TOLD HIM THE DOMINICAN PASSPORT WAS VALID AND HAD COST HIM U.S. $3800 IN DOM REP.

4. FILEI DEFER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

TOTAL COMIC

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

PAGE 01

IN 423455
SDOM 15988

SECRET 222125Z NOV 74 STAFF

CITE SANTO DOMINGO 15988

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS INFO DIRECTOR.

REF: SANTO DOMINGO 15971. (IN421799)

1. 22 NOVEMBER EDITION "EL CARIBE" NEWSPAPER REPORTS ORLANDO BOSCH/DEPORTED FROM VENEZUELA TO CURACAO ON 21 NOVEMBER FOLLOWING HIS ARREST ON 19 NOVEMBER. STORY CARRIES AP NEW YORK BYLINE AND WAS WRITTEN BY MIGUEL GALLASTEGUI.

2. WHEN HE RECEIVED NEWS, EMPYREX-1 CALLED DOMINICAN CONSUL IN CURACAO AND TOLD HIM TO ADVISE LOCAL AUTHORITIES OF BOSCH ARRIVAL AND REQUEST THEY TAKE AWAY FALSE DOMINICAN PASSPORT HE CARRYING, CONSUL ALSO TOLD TO ADVISE AUTHORITIES THAT BOSCH WILL NOT BE PERMITTED ENTER DOMREP. EMPYREX-1 TOLD STATION EFFORTS DISCOVER NAME UNDER WHICH BOSCH TRAVELING HAVE BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL. HE HAS, HOWEVER, BEEN ABLE TO LOCATE PHOTOGRAPH OF BOSCH AND THESE HAVE BEEN DISTRIBUTED TO AIRPORT SECURITY AND IMMIGRATION PERSONNEL WHO HAVE BEEN ALERTED TO PICKUP BOSCH IN EVENT HE TRIES TO GET INTO THE COUNTRYA

3. FILE 22-9-281 BOSCH 201. E2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

CABLE DECE

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:

ACTION UNIT:

LAS

ACTION:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

FILE: OCSZ

T 574788 EA725 PAGE

TOR1152215Z NOV 74 IN 416946

SECRET 152115Z NOV 74 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 25993.

TO: DIRECTOR, QUITO INFO LA/MIAMI,

REF: QUITO 21188 (IN 4/1939)

1. FYI WKSCARLET-3 MET WITH ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA IN
   CARACAS EVENING 13 NOVEMBER AND HE CERTAIN BOSCH HAS NOT LEFT
   VENEZUELA RECENTLY. BOSCH HAS ALIAS DOMINICAN PASSPORT AND
   VENEZUELAN 30-DAY TOURIST CARD WHICH HAS EXPIRED. BOSCH HAS
   NOT BEEN ABLE TO IMPROVE LOCAL DOCUMENTATION AND THEREFORE WOULD
   HAVE DIFFICULTY GETTING BACK INTO VENEZUELA IF HE LEFT.

2. WKSCARLET-3 SAID BOSCH IS USING DARK WIG WHICH LAYS
   OVER TO RIGHT SIDE OF HEAD: IS USING A COSMETIC TO BLEND A
   SKIN DISCOLORATION AT RIGHT SIDE OF MOUTH AND RIGHT CHEEK, HAS
   SHAVED OFF MOUSTACHE HE WORE FOR MANY YEARS AND NOW APPEARS WEIGH
   ABOUT 210 POUNDS.

3. BOSCH CLAIMED AC RESPONSIBLE FOR SOME OF BOMBINGS
   IN QUITO AT MEM AND THAT IT ALSO RESPONSIBLE FOR ONE LAST WEEK
   EN WASHINGTON,

4. STATION ADVISING LOCAL LEGATY ORALLY ABOVE PARA TWO
   DESCRIPTION AND THAT BOSCH IN CARACAS 13 NOVEMBER: SOURCING TO

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING
INTO 201-0249392


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY:
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED: SLOTTED BY AT AT Z
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR STAFF
ACTION #
T 574788 E1A725 PAGE 02-02 IN 415946
TOR: 152215Z NOV 74 CARA 25003
"A CUBAN EXILE IN MIAMI". REQUEST QUITO ADVISE CARACAS ASSISTANT
LEGATT GORDON ELLISON SAME. CITING SAME SOURCE.
5. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

FBI CABLES

DATE: 9 NOVEMBER 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA - FIGITIVE, PAROLE VIOLATOR
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)

DATE: 9 NOVEMBER 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA, AKA - FUGITIVE - PAROLE VIOLATOR
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

PERSON MET SOTIFIED

SECRET

ADAC 200/100/13350

ACTION
RF FILE

Ps/es-4

T 501013 EL4048

PAGE 81-81

TOR:1123452 NOV 74

IN 411939
QUIT 2:10.

SECRET 1123388 NOV 74 STAFF

CITE QUITO 21108

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR, GUAYAQUIL INFO CARACAS, LIMA,
LA/MIANE,
VWLOFTY
REF: QUITO 21087 (IN410675)

1. STATION PASSED TO SECURITY CHIEF COPIES OF PHOTO OF
   ORLANDO BOSCH PROVIDED BY LEGATT GORDON ELLISON. SECURITY-
   HEAD REPORTED THEY HAVE TRACED RESIDENCE OF ROBERTO
   VERDAGUER BOAN TO GUAYAQUIL. RESIDENCE IS BEING SURVEILLED:
   AND PHOTO WILL ASSIST POLICE IF BOSCH MAKES CONTACT WITH
   VERDAGUER.

2. DFILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET

SECRET

DUPLICATE COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

STAFF

DIRECTOR

091603Z

L20133

COD: LA IS INFO: FILE OFELINT, SECIRT, LONGO, OPHTE,

IM, DOO, DOOICO, DWD 2,5515206, PSIEG4, IW

TO: IMMEDIATE QUITO. LIMA INFO GUAYAQUIL.

ELVULOFTY V

REFSI A. DIRECTOR L17818 (NOT SENT OR NEEDED LIMA, GUAYAQUIL)

B. LIMA 29136 [IN 410127] V

3. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PROVIDED BY FBI INDICATES BOSCH MAY BE TRAVELING ON FALSE CORLOMBIAN PASSPORT BUT NO INFO ON ALIAS BEING USED. BOSCH WAS RELEASED FROM ATLANTA FEDERAL PENITENTIARY 15 DEC 72 ON PAROLE. HE SUBSEQUENTLY FOUNDED A SMALL ACTION GROUP OF CUBAN EXILES CALLED ACCION CUBA (AC). THIS GROUP HAS CLAIMED CREDIT FOR SENDING PACKAGE BOMBS TO CUBAN CONSULATES IN LIMA, OTTAWA AND MADRID DURING PAST YEAR.

2. FBI DESCRIBES ECBOSCH AS EGOTISTICAL AND DANGEROUS FANATIC WITH A FLARE FOR THE DRAMATIC. THE GBI SOURCE HAS SPECULATED THAT BOSCH MAY SEEK ASSISTANCE FROM ROBERTO VERDAGUER, CUBAN EXILE PILOT WHO IS REPORTED TO RUN A CROP DUSTING BUSINESS IN ECUADOR. THIS GBI SOURCE DID NOT HAVE FURTHER INFO ON VERDAGUER BUT HE MAY BE IDENTICAL WITH SUBJECT OF 201-231540 WHO HAS SAME NAME AND CARDED AS BOTH ECUADOREAN AND CUBAN WITH OCCUPATION AS PILOT.

DATE:

ORIGI:

UNITI:

EXTI:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING
INTO 201-0399292

E 2 IMPORT
CL BY:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# OUTGO. G MESSAGE

SECRET

6200338

BRIEF NOTATION STATED HE WAS INVOLVED IN ARMS SMUGGLING Feen nianz
TO NICARAGUA, CHECKING FURTHER.

FOR LIMAS ORLANDO O O S CH AVILATE CUBAN EXILE TERRORIST
WANTED BY FBI AND REPORTED TO BE IN OUITO COR LETH INTENT OF
TRAVELING TO BUITOS TO CONDUCT TERRORIST OPERATIONS AGAINST OAS
MINISTERS MEETING. REP & MENTION OF EFRAIN LEYTONE YATE
TRAVELING ON COLOMBIAN PASSPORT AND ARRESTED FOR CARRYING ARMS RAISES
QUESTION WHETHER LEYTONE MIGHT BE ALIAS BEING WEED BY BOSCH. EBOSCH
BORN 18 AUG 26, LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, CUBA IS RESCRIBED AS S FEET
8810 INCHES TALL, WEIGHT 170 POUNDS, DARK COMPLEXION, BOOGOLACK HAIR
BROWN EYES, THICK LIPS, RED BIRTHMARK ON CHIN, WEARS HORN RIMMED
GLASSES HE IS CONSIDERED EXTREMELY DANGEROUS REQUEST LIMA
COORDINATE WITH LIAISON TO INSURE LEYTONE IS HELD UNTIL END OF OAS
CONFERENCE (12 NOVI AND ATTEMPT TO DETERMINE IF LEYTONE IS BOSCH.Y
4. NO FILE. EZ IMPDET.

DATE: 9 NOV 74
ORIG: HARRY ARCHER TH
UNITI LA/NU/E
EXT: 1034


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

614547

SECRET

CaRs 2500

IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE FOR SUBJECT'S PAROLE INTO THE UNITED STATES FOR PROSECUTION HOWEVER, & DO 17 10 NAL DEPARTMENTAL APPROVAL NECESSARY BEFORE ARREST CAN BE OFFICIALY REQUESTED. THIS APPROVAL IS FORTHCOMING MONDAY MORNING AND CAN BE EXPEDITED IF ARREST ACTUALLY EFFECTED SOONER OR IF CIRCUMSTANCES DICTATE THIS IS NECESSARY.

D. BOSCH DESCRIBED AS BORN AUGUST 18, 1986, LAS VILLAS, CUBA. 5 FEET 10 INCHES, 170 POUNDS. DARK COMPLEXION. BLACK HAIR BROWN EYES. THICK LIPS, VERY NOTICIBLE RED BIRTHMARK ON CHIN. WEARS HEAVY HORN RIMMED GLASSES.

E. CONSIDER BOSCH ARMED AND EXTREMELY DANGEROUS."

2 ASSISTANT LEGATT GORDON F. ELLISON WILL ARRIVE QUITO ON MONDAY. NOVEMBER 11 NEXT. ON AF 217 AT APPROXIMATELY 18:15 AM. ELLISON WILL BRING PHOTOGRAPHS AND FINGERPRINTS TO FACILITATE INQUIRY.

3. FILE DEFER, E2 IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

## SECRET

415 OPSLITG ISAN, 2000, 20000, DINOZ

PAGE 01-01

TO RI 00 22 35 Z NOV 76

CITE QUITO 21007

TOI PRIORITY DIRECTOR, CARACAS, LIMA INFO LA/MIAMI, GUAYAQUIL.

VWLOFTY

REPS: A. CARACAS 25942 (NOT NEEDED LIMA, GUAYAQUIL) ( 410642)

B. DIRECTOR 628113 (NOT NEEDED LA/MIAMI, CARACAS)

1. REF A AND B INFO ON ORLANDO BOSCH POSSIBLE TRAVEL TO QUITO.

HIS PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION, DOCUMENTATION AND POSSIBLE LOCAL CONTACT WAS PASSED TO HEAD OF LOCAL SECURITY SERVICE AFTERNOON 9 NOV.

2. FILE: DEFER. W2 IMP DET

SECRET

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROCS FILING
INTO COL-0299292


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET 0918802 NOV 74 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 25942

TOI IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, QUITO INFO LA/MIAMI.

NIACT QUITO.

REFSI A, DIRECTOR 619818

B. QUITO 21873 (LIN410089)

S. FOLLOWING INFO PASSED STATION BY ASSISTANT LEGAT GORDON ELLISON. ELLISON SAYS INFO MAY BE PASSED BY STATION TO ECUADORAN SECURITY FORCESI

A. ORLANDO B O S C H AVILA IS CURRENTLY IN FUGITIVE STATUS FOR HAVING VIOLATED HIS PAROLE. HE WAS CONVICTED AND SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS IN MIAMI ON CHARGES RELATED TO SHIP BOMBINGS, EXTORTION AND CONSPIRACY. HE WAS RELEASED ON PAROLE DECEMBER 15, 1972.

B. BOSCH ALLEGEDLY ARRIVED QUITO ON NOVEMBER 5 OR 6, 1974 IN POSSESSION OF COLOMBIAN PASSPORT. NO INFORMATION AVAILABLE RE NAME BEING USED OR SPECIFIC DESTINATION IN QUITO. HOWEVER, HE MAY CONTACT ROBERTO VERDAGUER, CUBAN EXILE PILOT, WHO NOW OPERATES A COMMERCIAL AIRLINE TRANSPORT AND FUMIGATION COMPANY IN ECUADOR.

C. THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE HAS OBTAINED APPROVAL

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

STAFF

LAS
elad, Cilopa, Osl.IGS,
aslint, LENTI

IN 489003

CITE LA/MIAMI 22018

TO: IMMEDIATE GUSTO. DIRECTOR,

1. FBI/MIAMI INFORMS US THAT IT HAS REPORT THAT ORLANDO BOSCH, LEADER OF CUBAN ACTION IS IN QUITO.

2. BOSCH HAS RECENTLY SERVED FIVE YEARS IN ATLANTA FEDERAL PENITENTIARY FOR BOMBING OF POLISH SHIP IN MIAMI HARBOR. ARREST WARRANT CURRENTLY OUT ON HIM FROM FBI. FBI HAS BEEN SEARCHING FOR HIM FOR SEVERAL MONTHS.

3. FOR DIRECTOR: WE UNDERSTAND THIS INFORMATION HAS BEEN REPORTED TO FBI HEADQUARTERS. SUGGEST YOU MAY WISH TO CONTACT FOR FURTHER DETAILS.

4. FILE: DEFER, 82, IMPDET
   201-299292

RECORD COPY

![signature]

![table of program information]

8NOV74
201-297292


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

como: clab info: file: (elafan, eleilopa, clopslines, claps, DOD, DACdo, clewtio,

TO: IMMEDIATE DEPARTMENT OF STATE.V

ATTENTION: SY/PIS MR. BENNINGTON

FROM: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

3. WE ARE ADVISED THAT THERE IS A POSSIBILITY ORLANDO

O S C H AVILA, CUBAN CITIZEN AND KNOWN TERRORIST MAY BE PRESENT IN QUITO. BOSCH HAS SERVED 5 YEAR SENTENCE ATLANTA PENETENTIARY FOR BOMBING POLISH SHIP IN MIAMI HARBOR. HE IS CURRENTLY FUGITIVE WANTED BY FBI AND CONSIDERED EXTREMELY DANGEROUS.

B. BOSCH, BORN 18 AUGUST 1926 LAS VILLAS PROVINCE, CUBA.

HEIGHT 5 FEET 10 INCHES. WEIGHT 170 POUNDS. DARK COMPLEXION, BLACK HABIR, BEDBROWN EYES, THICK LIPS, RED BIRTH MARK ON CHIN, WEARS HORN RIMMED GLASSES.

OUR BREPRESENTATIVE IN QUITO IS AWARE OF THIS INFORMATION AND WILL COORDINATE WITH YOUR SECURITY REPRESENTATIVE ON THIS MATTER.

4. CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER: EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.0. 11652. EXEMPTION CATEGORY SB (2).

IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC DECLASSIFICATION.H


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

OUTGOING M. SUKSE

SECRET

STAFF

COMP: LA6

0822112

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE IRTAN, CI/OPO, LSN/10, ClOPS

639838

DISSEM BY: 05

TO: IMMEDIATE QUITO INFO CARACAS. LA/MIANI.ν

REFS: A. QUITO 21073 |IN 4/0029 | (NOT SENT OR NEEDED CARACAS.)
B. CARACAS 25438 |IN 409912|
C. LA/MIANI 22614 |IN 4/0070| (NOT SENT OR NEEDED CARACAS)

1. CHERGO STATES REF SUBJECT IS CUBAN CITIZEN AND WANTED ON SEVERAL CHARGES INCLUDING ASSAULT ORADO OFFICER. SUBJECT CONSIDERED EXTREMELY DANGEROUS. ERGO HAS STATES THAT ITS REPRESENTATIVE IN CARACAS HAS RESPONSIBILITY FOR HANDLING CASE AND PREFER WE DO NOT BECOME INVOLVED ANY ASPECT THIS MATTER.Y

2. BGNO ADDITIONAL BIO DATA TO ADD REF C. ADVISING
   SEPARATELY.Y

3- FOR CARACAS: REF AN AND C. INVOLVE ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA POSSIBLE PRESENCE QUITO-Y

4- SUGGEST QUITO ADVISE SECURITY DETACHMENT OF POSSIBLE PRESENCE BOSCH IN QUITO AND LET LATTER COORDINATE MATTER WITH LOCAL SECURITY LIAISON OFFICER.Y

5. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

DATE: 8 NOVEMBER 74

ORIG: HARRY ARCHER

UNIT: C/LA/NU/E

EXT: 3034

OPS/LSN C. ENURIGHT (IN SUBSTANCE)

DC/LA/CAR

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING
INTO -029794

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

CABLE SEC DISSEN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ARIANCE CONNOISSEUR NOTED LA 2049
ACTION UNIT
LAB FILE VR
ACTION # CON/ID 9/23

T 555986 EI4619 PAGE 01-01 IN 418929
TORI082034Z NOV 74 QUIT 21871

SECPET 0820132 NOV 74 STAFF

CITE QUITO 21071

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR, LA/MIAMI.

REF: LA/MIAMI 22611 (IN 409983)

1. NEED TO KNOW CITIZENSHIP OF ORLANDO BOSCH. IF HE
   IS AMERICAN, HOS PLS PUT THIS INFO THRU OTHER CHANNEL TO
   STATE SECURITY FOR PASSAGE TO COL. CABRERA IN QUITO.
   EITHER WAY, PLS ALSO CABLE BIO DATA AND PHSICAL DESCRIPTION.

2. NO FILE! E2 IMPDET

DUPLICATE COPY
FOR CROSS FILING
INTO POI-009734


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 27 SEPTEMBER 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-21947 (MIAMI)

DATE: 19 AUGUST 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-6193 (SAN JUAN)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 28 SEPTEMBER 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)

DATE: 31 JULY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ACCION CUBANA (AC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-21947 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

FBI DOCUMENT (EXCERPTS - DOC. AVAILABLE IN IP/CFS)

DATE: 25 JUNE 1974

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: "ZERO" (AN ORGANIZATION)

FBI FILE NO: 105-22094; 9-2690 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 20 JUNE 1974
CLASSIFICATION: AIUO
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA; ACCION CUBANA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FBI)

DATE: 1 MARCH 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA (FLNC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-21892 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

## DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

**SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT** **DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION**

BOSCH Aviles Orlando

BI FILE NO.

S. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 6. DATE

P. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO 9. EVALUATION

**5. ANALYST** **6. DATE PROCESSED** **10. DISSEMINATED IN** **11. DATE**

**12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE** **DOCUMENT DISPOSITION**

13. TRANSFERRED TO P. FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

ITEM IS A RESTRICTED CITA FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT

OF THIS 201 HELD UNDER CA. 97563

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. 299292

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FSI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 30 APRIL 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT OF CUBA (FLNC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-1824 (MIAMI)

DATE: 8 APRIL 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: AGRUPACION AXCALA ESTUDIANTIL;
AKA AXIALA
FBI FILE NO: 105-1272 (CHICAGO)

DATE: 27 MARCH 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: 109-1742 (MIAMI)

DATE: 14 MARCH 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: REVOLUTIONARY MEDICAL UNION
FBI FILE NO: 105-21663; 105-21664 (MIAMI)

DATE: 28 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MAX LESNICK
FBI FILE NO: 105-3492 (COPY AVAILABLE IN FILE OF
MAX LESNICK - No. 30)

DATE: 27 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: UNITY OF CUBAN PARACHUTISTS
GOLDEN FALCONS
FBI FILE NO: 105-20890

DATE: 20 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ALFREDO SANTIAGO SOLER ALVEREZ
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 20 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED
SUBJECT: ACTION CUBANA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FROM DIRECTOR, FRI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

## FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 16 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: L&SE; SOME RELATED IN MAIL AT CUBAN EMBASSY, OTTAWA, ONTARIO, CANADA,
JANUARY 29, 1974
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (CABLE FROM ILIARATOR, FEI)

DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORY (DR)
FBI FILE NO: 105-20202 (MIAMI)

DATE: 12 FEBRUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: JOSE ANTONIO COLMENARES IZQUIERDO
FBI FILE NO: 105-21598

DATE: 16 JANUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: BOMBING OF CUBAN EMBASSY, MEXICO CITY,
DECEMBER 3, 1973
FBI FILE NO: 174-728 (MIAMI)

DATE: 18 JANUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 15 JANUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: FRENTE CUBANA DE LIBERACION
FBI FILE NO: 105-21892 (MIAMI)

DATE: 31 DECEMBER 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MAX LESNICK, AKA MAX EDGARDO LESNICK- MENENDEZ
FBI FILE NO: 105-3492 (DOCUMENT AVAILABLE IN FILE OF MAX LEONICK, NO. 30)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

FEI SOCIERES

DATE: 13 DECEMBER 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO (DR)
FBI FILE NO: 105-20002 (MIAMI)

DATE: 10 DECEMBER 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO (DR)
FBI FILE NO: 105-20002 (MIAMI)

DATE: 27 SEPTEMBER 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: DIRECTORIO REVOLUCIONARIO (DR)
FBI FILE NO: 105-000 (MIAMI)

DATE: 31 AUGUST 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: RICARDO FELICIANO CASANUEVA
FBI FILE NO: 105-21501 (MIAMI)

DATE: 31 AUGUST 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 31 AUGUST 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: SERGIO FRANCISCO GONZALEZ ROSQUETE
FBI FILE NO: 105-21500 (MIAMI)

DATE: 31 JULY 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLE (PRP)
FBI FILE NO: 105-20913 (MIAMI)

DATE: 29 JUNE 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ANTI-CASTRO ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: 105-1742 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

BUSCH AVILA, ORLANDO
201-299292
SEX M DOB ?

CIT CUBA
OCC ?
DEKOG TRACE REPLY TO SECRET SERVICE IN CONNECTION W/ BREZHNEV VISIT. 11 OCT 68
ARRESTED BY FBI AGENTS CHARGE CARRYING OUT TERRORIST ACTIVITIES. LATER SENTENCED 10 YRS PRISON FOR PLANNING. TERRORIST CAMPAIGN.

019-002-004
UFAA-05126A01
15 JUN 73

R 7306270349

Indicate The Subject, Project Or 201 File No. In Which This Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last, First, Middle)

201- 299292

FORM 867


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

FEI LOCUMENTS

DATE: 26 JUNE 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 27 APRIL 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 30 MARCH 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (PRP)
FBI FILE NO: 105-20913 (MIAMI)

DATE: 29 JANUARY 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO
FBI FILE NO: 105-20913 (MIAMI)

DATE: 24 JANUARY 1973
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (PRP)
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

DATE: 18 JANUARY 1973
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: PARTIDO REVOLUCIONARIO DEL PUEBLO (FRP)
FEI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 28 NOVEMBER 1972
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
SBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

BAZEK


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

![seal image]

![seal image]

REPUBLICA DE COSTA RICA

**PASAPORTE**
(PASSPORT)

LA DIRECCION GENERAL DE MIGRACION
DEL. MINISTERIO DE SEGURIDAD PUBLICA

Rogamos a las autoridades civiles y militares
To request the civil and military authorities of the
countries.

de los paises por donde transite el portador,
through which the bearer travels, to provide

no lo pongan obstaculo y le presten ayuda y
protección en caso necesario.
assistance without delay or hindrance and pro-
tection as may be necessary.

![Thumb-print, right hand.]
Impresión pulgar derecho.
Thumb-print, right hand.

30 Paginas

![RECORD COPY]
RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

No. DEL PASAPORTE 2446-41

Bec Luis Cariaga Heinan

SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA

The 18 dias del mes de Februno

Valid until 18 Fihero 1943

Padirudo nes renovado
hasta completar diez

![signature of Migracion]

PERSONAS INCLUIDAS EN ESTE PASAPOR
PENSONS INCLUDED IN THIS PASSPORT

![photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

ALIDACIONES
LIDATIONS

![Stamp] 5 11. Set. 74

|                              | Director General de Migración |                              | Director General de Migración |                               | Director Guneral de Migración |
| ---------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| Revalidado el Revalidated on |                               | Revalidado el Revalidated on |                               | Revalidado el Revalidated on: |                               |
| Válido hasta Valid until     |                               | Válido hasta Valid until     |                               | Válido hasta Valid until      |                               |

ESTE PASAPORTE ES VALIDO PARA DIRIGIRSE A
THIS PASSPORT IS VALID FOR TRAVEL TO

Panamá

![Signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

## VISAS

![Stamp of Visa on a passport page]

## OBSERVACIONES
REMARKS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

VISAS

LIDA
TO SE MICAJCHO
SALIDA
SLT. 20 157

16 SET, 1071

REPUBLICE PE PANAM,
DEPIO. OF MINRACIGA
ENTRADA
0020120
SET. 16,150
PASO KOAS
EAS MYDL
AD
ENTRADA
20 SET. 12?!

MAR
INTRD
NICAHAYUA

![photo of visa stamp]

VISAS
315674
DIFAAM
Fórumá

![photo of visa stamp]
L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SALIDA
15 SET. 19

DELECADO DE AR

ENTRADA
30 SET. 1972

PERAS PRA CAS
26 MAR 1976

COSTA
SALIDA

10
VISAS

![visa stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

13
VISAS

VISA
N
DEPARTAMIENTO DE MIGRACION
Esta visa cotina e
Butau para dirigime
Van Cualquier Direccion c
San Jose.

![stamp]

5

13
VISAS

VISA
No. 41419
DEPARTAMENTO DE MIGRACION
sama

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

14-00000

15

VISAS)

![Stamp with date 30 ENE 1975]

VISAS

REPUBLICA NICARAGUENSE

MANAGUA

Visitante No. 52

Fecha de Emision: 20-2-75

Expire el: 30-8-76

Valido para visitar a la Tony Lilla

A favor de: Tony Lilla

![Stamp with date 29.73 REPUBLICA DOMINICANA]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

17
VISAS

16
VISAS

![image of a form with header and fillable input area]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

![photo of a document with handwritten notes and stamps on it]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# CENTRAL AND RECORD SHEET

PRICA TO FILING

1 Hug 10 20 taka betach back t
and tward to of AID

2 Contare Cover abeat unless в пасезаary
seguracat actare later of carmat; recs.
ng praceribed

TO ACTION BRANCH

Insert proper tas as bruce and torward
documents to of AA

FROM

6” – ESS
(CAS)
TUBE 6TS

LP/AN
EXS. 7357

TO ALL ADDRESSE

![signature]

DOC. MICRO SEG

APA 12 m/d

MICROFILM

|     | TO        | BOOK NO | DATE       | ACTION |
| --- | --------- | ------- | ---------- | ------ |
| 1.  | clarkoc   |         | 4 MAR 1972 | Yeke   |
| 2.  | Delatte   |         |            |        |
| 3.  | Trammell  |         |            |        |
| 4.  | Cumbri    |         | 27 MAR     |        |
| 5.  | OS        |         | 17MAR      |        |
| 6.  |           |         |            |        |
| 7.  |           |         |            |        |
| 8.  | 4/4/3/1   |         | 4 APR 1972 | md     |
| 9.  | ND        |         |            |        |
| 10. |           |         |            |        |
| 11. | wH/c09/FI |         | 60m        | Q      |
| 12. |           |         |            |        |
| 13. |           |         |            |        |
| 14. | IP/AN     |         |            | Kjp    |
| 15. | IP/Files  |         |            |        |
| 16. |           |         |            |        |
| 17. |           |         |            |        |

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action is
authorized:

R.O. act. 21 –

Signed: ![signature]

Chomo detailed

please inform as Canadian interest

![stamp] INDICATE ACTION

*   Destroy Records Officer
*   Stamp and Signature

201-299222

Plo index.

|         |
| ------- |
| AN      |
| AB      |
| IN      |
| PS      |
| BW 2    |
| DES N/I |
| OT      |

201-299292

FILE TITLE

TP/fdi - Already distributed

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

DOCUMENT DATE

23 MAR 72

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFAA 03979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

TELEPOUCE

DISPATCH DD UFAA 3979

DATE 22 MARCH 1972

FILE DEFER

FRO 00

INDEX 00

TO CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

FROM CHIEF OF STATION, UN/MIAMI

SUBJECT MARCO RODRIGUEZ RAMOS

1. LURGIO/MIAMI PROVIDED THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION WITH A REQUEST FOR ANY DATA STATION COULD PROVIDE ON SUBJECT:

MARCO RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, A DEFENDANT IN THE ORLANDO BOSCH CASE, JUMPED BOND AND SHIPPED OUT OF THE COUNTRY. HE WAS APPREHENDED IN VENEZUELA AND RETURNED TO MIAMI 12 MARCH 1972 IN THE CUSTODY OF "CIFENCE-4 (IDEN U/S/C), A FORMER TRUST EMPLOYEE NOW WORKING WITH THE VENEZUELAN POLICE." RODRIGUEZ RAMOS SAID THAT HE WENT TO CHILE ON A MISSION TO ASSASSINATE FIDEL CASTRO WHEN CASTRO VISITED CHILE LAST YEAR. THE MISSION WAS NOT CARRIED OUT FOR VARIOUS REASONS. RODRIGUEZ RAMOS ALSO SAID THAT ONE OF THE OTHER MEMBERS OF THE ASSASSINATION MISSION WAS JESUS DOMINGUEZ BENITEZ. RODRIGUEZ RAMOS THREATENED THAT, IF HE IS TRIED FOR BOND JUMPING THAT HE WILL "EMBARRASS THE U.S. GOVERNMENT." HE IMPLIED THAT HE WAS ON THE MISSION FOR A COMPONENT OF THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.

2. STATION FILES DISCLOSED THAT STATION CARACAS REQUESTED TRACES ON RODRIGUEZ RAMOS IN FEBRUARY 1972 (CARACAS 18711) WHEN SUBJECT REQUESTED A VENEZUELAN RESIDENT VISA AND INDICATED THAT HE HAD LIVED IN MIAMI FOR SEVERAL YEARS. STATION TRACES

SECRET RYBAT TELEPOUCH UFAA 3979 PAGE ONE

DESENSITIZED

![handwritten text, potentially '201 Member of Chik mission to assassinate Fidel Castro']

![handwritten text '22 Mar']

![stamp with handwritten text and reference number, potentially '201-199292 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification']

/AH(use)

ES COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# SECRET RYBAT TELEPOUCH UFAA 3979 PAGE TWO

OF ADDRESSED TO CARACAS 18 un/MIAMI 11319 AND 11362) SCIRED THAT SUBJECT ENTERED THE U.S. ON 23 JANUARY 1964 WITH OCCUPATION NOTED AS "SEAMAN". HE WAS ONE OF THE SEVERAL LEADERS ARRESTED BY INS ON 11 OCTOBER 1968 FOR PARTICIPATION IN CUBAN POWER AND MOVIMIENTO INSURRECIONAL DE RECUPERACION REVOLUCIONARIA (MIRR) ACTIVITIES. FILES ALSO INDICATED THAT SUBJECT WAS ONE OF FOUR CUBAN EXILES ARRESTED IN HALLWOOD, FLORIDA, ON 10 JUNE 1969 AND LATER INDICTED ON A CHARGE OF CONSPIRING TO EXPORT MUNITIONS.

3. AS WILL BE RECALLED, JESUS DOMINGUEZ BENITEZ WAS ANOTHER OF THE BOSCH DEFENDANTS (9 IN ALL, INCLUDING BOSCH) ARRESTED IN MIAMI ON 11 OCTOBER 1968 IN CONNECTION WITH CHARGES INVOLVING ANTI-CASTRO TERRORIST ACTIVITIES IN THE U.S.

4. FILE TRACES ON BOTH MARCO RODRIGUEZ RAMOS AND JESUS DOMINGUEZ BENITEZ WERE PASSED TO LHERGO/MIAMI WITH A FIRM ASSURANCE THAT BKTRUST WAS IN NO WAY INVOLVED WITH THE "MISSION" of RODRIGUEZ RAMOS. THIS FIRM ASSURANCE WAS GIVEN SINCE RODRIGUEZ RAMOS, THREATENED "TO EMBARRASS THE USG" IF HE IS TRIED FOR BOND JUMPING. RODRIGUEZ IMP., IED HE WAS ON THIS MISSION FOR A COMPONENT OF THE USG.

LEWIS J. SHOQUIST

DISTRIBUTION VIA TELEPOUCH

ATTACHMENT: U/SC (IDENT IT Y)

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

SECRET RYBAT TELEPOUCH UFAA 3979 END


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET RYBAT SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO UF&A 3979
IDENTITY: LUIS CLEMENTE P06549 CARD FILES
SECRET RYBAT SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT O UF&A 3979 END

> [Figure: A stamp with text DOC. MICRO. BER. APR 12 1972 MICROFILMED.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

## FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 14 SEPTEMBER 1972
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MARINO NAPIO GUTIERREZ-VIDAL
FBI FILE NO: 105-1253 (MIAMI)

DATE: 16 SEPTEMBER 1972
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: JORGE LUIS GUTIERREZ ULEA
FBI FILE NO: 105-1253 (MIAMI)

DATE: 14 SEPTEMBER 1971
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: JOSE DIAZ MOREJON, AKA TONY PRINTO
FBI FILE NO: 105-1481 (MIAMI)

DATE: 26 FEBRUARY 1971
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE TO FREE CURAN POLITICAL PRISONERS
FBI FILE NO: 105-19785 (MIAMI)

DATE: 31 DECEMBER 1970
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: COMANDOS MARCELINO GARCIA
FBI FILE NO: 105-19269 (MIAMI)

DATE: 27 JANUARY 1971
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 12 FEBRUARY 1970
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 24 OCTOBER 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MARCELINO GARCIA JIMENEZ
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

FEI : JO MMTF

DATE: 12 SEPTEMBER 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE LISTED
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA; ET AL
FEI FILE NO: 62-1175 (MIAMI)

DATE: 24 JUNE 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: MIRK
FEI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN

DATE: 17 JUNE 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FEI FILE NO: 105-2052 (MIAMI)

DATE: 11 JUNE 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRK
FEI FILE NO: 105-3666 (MIAMI)

DATE: 10 JUNE 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE FOR THE FREEDOM OF
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

DATE: 30 APRIL 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 105-2856 (MIAMI)

DATE: 8 APRIL 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE FOR THE FREEDOM OF
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

DATE: 28 MARCH 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE FOR THE FREEDOM OF
ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (SAN JUAN)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

## FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 24 MARCH 1969
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
SUBJECT: MOVIMIENTO NACIONALISTA CUBANO (MNC)
FBI FILE NO: 105-39412 (NEW YORK)

DATE: 21 MARCH 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 10 MARCH 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: COMMITTEE FOR THE FREEDOM OF BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

DATE: 28 FEBRUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: DIRECCION CENTRAL DE ORGANIZACIONES
REVOLUCIONARIAS DEMOCRATICAS CUBANAS
FBI FILE NO: 105-16691 (MIAMI)

DATE: 28 FEBRUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: AGUSTIN ARMANDO SOSA RODRIGUEZ
FBI FILE NO: 105-15889 (MIAMI)

DATE: 18 FEBRUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: MIRR
FBI FILE NO: 105-2855 (MIAMI)

DATE: 14 FEBRUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: 149-225 (MIAMI)

DATE: 10 FEBRUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: OMAR BOSCO OSCAR JESUS DE LA CARIDAD
SOTO PUJOL
FBI FILE NO: 105-15774 (EXTRACT OF DOC. WITH
ALL PERTINENT INFO ENCLOSED)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 29 JANUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: VILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (SAN JUAN)

DATE: 29 JANUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: CUBAN POWER (FC)
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEW YORK)

DATE: 28 JANUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: MIGUEL SAN PEDRO GARCIA
FBI FILE NO: 105-12822 (MIAMI)

DATE: 27 JANUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

DATE: 27 JANUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: ORLANDO BOSCH AVILA
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (MIAMI)

DATE: 15 JANUARY 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: EJERCITO SECRETO ANTICOMUNISTA (ESA)
FBI FILE NO: 105-14843 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

FBI DOCUMENT (CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET)

DATE: 11 DECEMBER 1968

CLASSIFICATION: NOT KNOWN

SUBJECT: RE RECENT ATTEMPT TO BOMB BRITISH BRITISH FREIGHTER LANCASTRIAN PRINCE

FBZ FILE NO: NOT KNOWN

DOCUMENT AVAILABLE FROM RECORDS CENTER:
FILE 19-300-21
JOB # 69-839/59


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)