# S E C R E T

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

| ACTION UNIT | I   | RF.            | FILE.                      | VR.                   | BY  | AT  | Z   | STAFF |
| ----------- | --- | -------------- | -------------------------- | --------------------- | --- | --- | --- | ----- |
| N           |     |                |                            |                       |     |     | 1   |       |
| CIA *       | F   | *ISES, YEURG,* | *ISIATIC ISIAJEL*          | *diploms LICAS DAOY.* |     |     |     | 4     |
| O           |     |                |                            |                       |     |     | 2   |       |
| ACTION #    |     |                |                            |                       |     |     |     | 5     |
|             |     |                |                            |                       |     |     | 3   |       |
| T 325447    |     | E1A549         | *ISTA, day dEPS/R2 Salode* |                       |     |     |     | 6     |

PAGE 01

TOR:291001Z NOV 77

S E C R E T 090945Z NOV 77 STAFF

CITE THE HAGUE 33277

TO: DIRECTOR,

WNINTEL RYBAT REAM SYMPATHIZER MHCOLOR

REF: UNHA-40412, 4 MAY 1977

1. SENSITIVE SYMPATHIZER SOURCE INDICATES THAT ON 3 OCTOBER WILLEM OLTMANS MADE APPOINTMENT MEET WITH CUBAN AMBASSADOR, THE HAGUE. OLTMANS STATED HE GOING "TO AMERICA ON 18TH" AND THAT HE " IS INDEED PREPARED TO GO AT THE BEGINNING OF NOVEMBER AS ARRANGED".

2. DURING DISCUSSION, OLTMANS SAID HE ALSO HAD VISIT SCHEDULED WITH RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR ROMANOV FOR 3 OCTOBER AND WANTED COMBINE TWO VISITS FOR SAME DAY. OLTMANS WAS TOLD AN ATTEMPT BY CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO SCHEUDLE MEET WITH HIM DURING SEEK 25 SEPTEMBER HAD BEEN UNSUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OLTMANS COULD NOT BE REACHED. OLTMANS STATED HE HAD BEEN IN SOVIET UNION THEN.

3. ABOVE EVIDENCE OF OLTMAN'S CONTINUING CLOSE CONTACT WITH CUBAN AND SOVIET DIPLOMATS AND HIS RECENT TRAVEL TO THE USSR AND APPARENT CURRENT TRAVEL TO CUBA

S E C R E T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY. PER. TOTAL COPIES RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT Z ISSUING OFFICE IS PROH!!

ACTION UNIT RF. FILE. VR. STAFF

1 4

2 5

3 6

ACTION # INFO

T 325447 E1A549 PAGE 22-02 IN 459495

TOR:091001Z NOV 77 HAGU 33077

IS OF INTEREST IN VIEW HIS NOTORIOUS ROLE AT THE TIME

OF THE DEATH OF GEORGE DE MOHRENSCHILD. LATTER WAS OF

INTEREST BOTH TO SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGNECE

AND HOUSE ASSASSINATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE. IF HQS DEEMS

IT APPROPRIATE, NO STATION OBJECTION TO CONVEYING ABOVE,

WITH ADEQUATE SOURCE PROTECTION, TO PROPER CONGRESSIONAL

AUTHORITIES.

4. FILE: 221-155221, E2, IMPDET.

c/s SUGGESTS ADD: DISSEM TO: OZC

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)