# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

11 December 1995

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Historical Review Group

FROM: Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.
DO, Focal Point for ARRB

SUBJECT: DO Position on Identification of ERTHYROID/3

1.  The DO strongly opposes the release by the ARRB of the phrase "a good KUBARK asset" that was previously withheld in Attachment. The CIA asked the Nicaraguan Service to send ERTHYROID/3 to Mexico City to help in the interrogation of Alvarado. Because this was during the Samoza regime, we have admitted that we had a liaison relationship with the Nicaraguans and we also have released the cryptonym ERTHYROID. ERTHYROID/3 became well known to the Mexicans as the Nicaraguan interrogator and, of course, was known by his own service. The phrase "a good KUBARK asset," however, identifies him as a unilateral source of the Managua Station unbeknownst to the Nicaraguan and Mexican Services.

2.  The DO often recruits officers, such as ERTHYROID/3, who are members of intelligence and police services with which it has a liaison relationship. These assets provide us valuable information without the knowledge of the service and in many cases they provide information about the service itself and its activities. To reveal ERTHYROID/3's identity and his special relationship with the CIA would not only personally endanger ERTHYROID/3 but could cast suspicion on other recruited officers of other liaison services and compel them to reevaluate their unilateral relationships with the CIA.

![Signature of Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.]

Fredrick C. Wickham, Jr.

SECRET

CL BY 0695930

REASON 1.5(c)

DECL X1

DRV HUM 2-82


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

SUBJECT: DO Position on Identification of ERTHYROID/3

IMS/ESG/J. Goins/44447/11 Dec 95

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee
1 - DO/IRO
1 - ESG/HCS
1 - C/ESG

2

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)