# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, VE

FROM: Chief of Station, London

SUBJECT: KEYVAY/PBRUMEX/SMOTE
Cuban Identified and Suspect Intelligence Officers

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO: OELA-37,729

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO: 19-5

DATE: 28 December 1962

ACTION REQUIRED: See para four

REFERENCES:

1.  Attached hereto are three copies of a *SMOTH* prepared list of identified and suspect intelligence officers, compiled from *EMOTH* records but not including information derived from Special Intelligence sources.

2.  Copies are being distributed to JAGUAR, SMABLE, ASIO (Australia) and JACONET.

3.  As the list includes a considerable amount of information from KUBARK sources, *SMOTH* would be grateful if Headquarters would consider giving clearance to distribute copies of this study to *Friendly Latin American and Western European liaison services* . They have further asked whether it would be appropriate to pass a copy of this report to ODENVY.

4.  London Station would appreciate a brief cabled reply to the request for further distribution of this information.

LAWRENCE L. NOLDY

Attachment: "Cuban Identified and Suspect Intelligence Officers"
3 copies

Distributions:
4-Chief, VE w/atts

VEGA Perez

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]

201-334753
CELA-37.729
28 Dec 62


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

-26-

VALDES VALDES, Ramon

1961:
Born oiros 1911.
Suspoot 1.8
Officer at G-2 Headquarters, Havana.
Signs orders to view prisoners at la Cabana Prison.
Description: circa 5' 7" tall, heavy build, weight: 190 lbs. approx., short nook, scanty grey hair.

VAZQUEZ MONTENEGRO, Ramon

1960:
Suspeot I.8.
Member of Cuban Security and acted as bodyguard. to President DORTICOS.
Reportedly travels on subversive missions in Latin America.

June 1962:
Member of G-2 in the Cuban Minisury for Foreign Affairs.

VEGA PEREZ, Manuel
201-334253

Suspeot I.0.
Diplomatio Attaché, Cuban Embassy, Mexico since June 1962
Responsible for new "Committee in Defence of the Cuban Revolution".
Reported by defeator to be former instructor at C-2 training school.

VELAZ (VELOZ), Lt. Anibal

Excerpt:
Atom 6 CELA-37,729
28 Dec 1962


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)