104-10183-10355 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

OPERATIONAL MATERIAL dated 8 February 1966 - 31 December 1970

ALIFS DOCUMENTATION fud KKULL

FORM
10.75 2731 Use Provious Editions

SECRET

E-2, IMPDET CL SY: 006457-

(21)

UWV 14 June 76


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 13

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

**SECRET**
GROUP I
(When Filled In)
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX:
YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

X-REF TO CS FILE NO.

FILE RID
RETURN TO
BRANCH
DISSEM.BY
ACTION UNIT
FILE, VR
WH 8, DOP
ACTION NO.

SECRET 312214Z DEC 70 CITE DIRTECH 0697
IIMEDIATE WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMMUG AQUATIC

REF: DIRTECH 2696 (IN 236095)

IDENTITY MR LESTER L. RHODES

6718 EDSAL ROAD

SPRINGFIELD, VIRGINIA 22151 GP-1

SECRET.

END OF MESSAGE

ORIG: DONALD RATER ACOP/TSD

LEASING OFFICER. KONALD KATER TSD/COP

CS COPY

SECRET

31 Dec 70
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 5
SIGN AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

SECRET
(When Fitted In)

ADVANCE COPY☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM BY 53 PEB
ACTION UNIT

FILE: VR

ACTION NO.
539

SECRET 312214Z DEC 73 CITE DIRTECH 3696

IMMEDIATE WH/IALI INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMVUS AQUATIC

REF: WH/MIAMI 9915

SEND PHOTOS TO IDENTITY. GP-1.

SECRET

HE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

31 December 1970
WH/COG-70-447

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. Ruffner.

SUBJECT : Amendment of OA for AMMUG/1

It is requested that the Operational Approval for AMMUG/1 (201-749651) be amended to permit his operational use outside the United States.

Bernice Turbeville
WH/COG/OPS

Distribution:

Original & 1 - Addressee

1 - WH/COG/OPS

1 - WH/COG/CHRONO

✓ - Originator

31 Dec 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

YASONTUNIT NOTIFIED

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

(When Filled In!)

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

INDEX

ROUTING AND ON INITIALS SEEN OY

[ ] YES [ ] NO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO

MY

AT

Z

DISSEM BY

8

PEA

RE TO CS FILE NO

ACTION UNIT

WH 8

FILE CID

RETURN TO

FILE, VR

BI/AN, EUR 6, FI, CI, CI/OPS

ACTION NO.

888

SECRET 311239Z DEC 70 CITE MADRID 2755

WH/MIAMI INFO DIRECTOR THE HAGUE LONDON

TYPIC

REF: MADRID 2743(in 234495)

1. LIAISON TRAVEL LIST DATED 21 DECEMBER SHOWS

ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART AND EUGENIO GONZALEZ

ALVAREZ LEFT FOR CASABLANCA ON THAT DATE. LIAISON LISTS

NOT ALWAYS ACCURATE.

2. FILE 201-865545M GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

31 Dcc.70.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON UNIT NOTIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRE.
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN BY
![handwritten initials]
REPROCTON OF THIS PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
BY
Z
Bornice
DISSEM BY
ACTION UMT
WH
ACTION NO.
881
PER
FILEO
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE, VR, RI/AN, EUR 6, FI, CI, CI/OPS, CI/IS 2
SECRET 3111312 DEC 70 CITE THE HAGUE 8901
WHMIAMI INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID, LONDON
592
TYPIC
31DEC 235592
REF: WH/MIANI 09883 (@234350)

1. DEPENDING ON NATURE AND DEGREE WH/NIAMI INTEREST
   SUBJECT REF, WOULD RECOMMEND WATCHLISTING WITH DUTCH LIAISON
   WHICH MIGHT PRODUCE TIMELY INFORMATION ON SUBJECT'S ARRIVAL,
   RESIDENCE WHILE IN THE NETHERLANDS AND ONWARD ITINERARY.
   OTHERWISE, STATION WILL AT BEST BE ABLE TO PROVIDE AFTER
   THE FACT TRAVEL DATA. PLEASE ADVISE WHETHER WATCHLISTING
   DESIRED.

2. WOULD EMPHASIZE THAT WATCHLISTING WILL SIGNAL JKLANCE
   INTEREST, ALTHOUGH WE ESTIMATE LITTLE IF ANY LIAISON CONCERN.
   ALSO THAT STATION MUST, IN GENERAL, LIMIT OVERALL VOLUME
   WATCHLISTING REQUIREMENTS.

3. FOR DIRECTOR. RECOMMEND HQS BE ALERT TO TRACES
   SUBJECT REF IN MATERIAL FORWARDED UNDER ONHA-37367 AND
   RELATED.

4. FILE: 201-365545. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET

31 Dec. 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 215 ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN

*SECRET*

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO

X REF TO CS FILE NO.
FILE RID RETURN TO

DISSEM BY 38

FILE, VR B/AN, EUR6, CI, C/OPS, FI

SECRET 311721Z DEC 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 9914 31 DEC 235845

THE HAGUE INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID, LONDON

TYPIC

REF: THE HAGUE 9981(IN 235592)

1. AFTER WEIGHING REF CONSIDERATIONS AND OUR USED TO
   NAIL DOWN SUBJECT'S LOCATION, REQUEST THE HAGUE WATCHLIST
   SUBJECT OF REF WITH DUTCH LIAISON.

2. FILE: 231-265545. GP-1

SECRET

31DEC70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 21-1

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN

SECRET

(When Filing In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX
YES NO 201

FILE VR

SECRET 291714Z DEC 70 CITE MADRID 2743

LONDON, WH/MIAMI INFO THE HAGUE, PARIS, DIRECTOR

TYPIC QUTIMID

REF: WH/MIAMI 09383 (L-234350)

1. RE PARA 1 REF, ON 21 DECEMBER *ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ*.

LLONPART CALLED *DIONISIC ARRANZ TREMOLS*, CUBAN COMMERCIAL COUNSELOR IN LONDON, AND TOLD HIM HE LEAVING THAT DATE FOR LONDON. LLOMPART, WHO TRAVELLING WITH EUGENIO *GONZALEZ ALVEREZ*, WAS TO BE MET BY ARRANZ AT AIRPORT.

2. SHORTLY AFTERWARDS, BLANQUITA (PROBABLY BLANCA CALVET, ADMINISTRATOR CUBAN COMMERCIAL OFFICE LONDON) CALLED RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART AND SAID SHE LOOKING FORWARD TO HIS VISIT. RODRIGUEZ ASKED BLANCA NOT GIVE UP APARTMENT IN LONDON WHICH THEY SHEESULED GIVE UP 1 JANUARY SO THAT HE MIGHT USE IT.

3. 30TH ARRANZ AND BLANQUITA ASKED RODRIGUEZ ABOUT HIS BROTHER'S EYESIGHT TO WHICH RODRIGUEZ REPLIED HE GETTING ALONG QUITE WELL.

4. FILE 221-8655547. GP-1

SECRET

29 Dec 70

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

SECRET. 29142 Z DEC 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 09883 IN 234 350
PRIORITY LONDON, THE HAGUE, PARIS INFO DIRECTOR, MADRID C
TYPIC (L 233739)
REF: MADRID 2727 (NOT SENT PARIS)

1. REQUEST THAT JAGUAR : A.) CONFIRM LONDON ARRIVAL OF ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART, B.) IF POSSIBLE, PROVIDE PRESENT LOCATION AND/OR ONWARD TRAVEL PLANS.

2. FOR THE HAGUE: REQUEST YOU FORWARD ANY INFO THAT BECOMES AVAILABLE ON RODRIGUEZ TRAVEL YOUR AREA.

3. FOR PARIS: REF REPORTED THAT RODRIGUEZ DEPARTED MADRID FOR LONDON ON 21 DECEMBER AND INDICATED THAT HE PLANNING A 40-DAY EUROPEAN TRIP INCLUDING A POSSIBLE VISIT THE HAGUE. NO SPECIFICS AVAILABLE. REQUEST THAT YOU FORWARD ANY INFO THAT BECOMES AVAILABLE ON RODRIGUEZ TRAVEL YOUR AREA.

4. FILE: 201-865547. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET 231527Z DEC 70 CITE MADRID 2727

RIORITY WH/MIAMI INFC PRIORITY DIRECTOR, THE HAGUE, LONDON

TYPIC

REFS: A. MADRID 2715 (NOT SENT THE HAGUE AND LONDON) (12231249)

B. DIRECTOR 397508 (NOT SENT THE HAGUE AND LONDON)

C. WH/MIAMI 9865 (NOT SENT THE HAGUE AND LONDON)(12232907)

1. ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLEUPART SCHEDULES DEPART

MADRID FOR LONDON 21 DECEMBER 1970. QUTINID REVEALS HE PLANNING

43-DAY EUROPEAN TRIP AND MENTIONED POSSIBLE VISIT THE HAGUE

(DATES NOT SPECIFIED).

2. FILE 201-865545. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET

8 Dec 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

CA: LE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATIC

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPI. 3-1 ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED.

REPRODUCTION OF THIS CCOY PROHIBITED

ACTION UNIT

FILE, VR RI/AN, EUR 6, FI, CI, CI/OPS, 01/10 2

ACTION NO

SECRET 2414372 DEC 70 CITE WH/MIANI 9865

PRIORITY MADRID INFO PRIORITY DIRECTOR

TYPIC 240EC 232901

REF MADRID 2715 (23/249)

1. PLS PROVIDE ANY INFO AVAILABLE ON PRESENT LOCATION AND/OR
   ONWARD TRAVEL PLANS OF ROSERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART.

2. FILE: 201-865547. GP1.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

## SECRET

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESS TOTAL COPES 51 ROUTING AND CA IN TIAL. SELN BY

![photo of classified message header]

SECRET 181847Z SEP 70 CITE WH/MIAM E936

DO BASE NEW YORK INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMROSE DONOPS

REFERENCE: DO BASE NEW YORK 8155(4160121)

1. STATION WENT THROUGH FILES OF AMMUG-1 AND AMDAUB-1 AND HAD OUTSIDE OFFICERS CONTACT THEM TO DETERMINE FEASIBILITY OF REF PROPOSAL.

2. ANMUG-1 AND STATION FEEL THAT ANY PUBLICITY GIVEN HIM AT THIS TIME WOULD ONLY BE DETRIMENTAL. HE IS HAPPILY SETTLED AND DOES NOT WANT HIS PAST BROUGHT TO THE ATTENTION OF HIS NEIGHBORS OR PERSONS HE WORKS WITH.

3. ANDAUB-1 ON THE OTHER HAND IS SETTLED BUT CURRENTLY HAS FINANCIAL PROBLEMS DUE TO INACTIVITY CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS, FAMILY PROBLEMS, ETC., ALL OF WHICH ARE NOT CONDUCIVE FOR ANY INTERVIEW.

4. IN LIGHT OF THE FOREGOING WE FEEL THAT THE TIME IS NOT PROPITIOUS FOR ANY ARTICLES

![photo of an, ab, in, bx, des hfd, fi boxes]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITI

UNIT_NOT SECRET

(When Filed Inl

COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION CO OHIBITED

CISSE BY PER

ACTION UNIT FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 8936 SECRET

TO BE PUBLISHED AT LEAST ON THESE TWO

DEFECTORS.

5. FILE: 201-354406. GP-1

SECRET

SECRE

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET TELEPOUCH

DISPATCH NO - UFAW-378

FILE NO - 201-749651

DATE - 22 MAY 1970

INDEX - NO

FILM - NO

TO - CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

INFO - NO

FROM - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION

SUBJECT - CITIZENSHIP OF AMMUG-1

ACTION - SEE BELOW

REFS - UFAX-14-DATED 13 JAN 70

UFAW-771 DATED 3 FEB 70

UFAA-1844 DATED 6 MAR 70

1. BILL NO. HR 17740 WAS INTRODUCED TO CONGRESS ON 20
   MAY 1970 REQUESTING WAIVING THE TEN-YEAR PROVISION OF THE
   IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION ACT IN THE CASE OF AMMUG-1.

2. THE BILL WILL PROBABLY NOT PASS THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS,
   BUT ITS INTRODUCTION WILL INITIATE THE NECESSARY PAPER WORK
   MAKING CHANCES FOR PASSAGE OF THE BILL GOOD FOR THE NEXT SESSION.

JOYCE K. JANGIEL

DISTRIBUTION

3 - COS, WH/MIAMI

WH/COG/OP/Geisler:kgb 22May70

Distribution:

1 - 749651

1 - WH/COG/Chrono

1 - Originator

CS COPY

COORDINATE:

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFAW-878 PAGE ONE

22 May 70

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

TO
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

FROM
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT
Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Action Required: See Below
Reference: UFAW-878

Attached is a copy of Bill No. HR 17740 which may be passed to Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera.

Joyce K. JANGIEL

Distribution.
3 - COS, WH/Miami w/att herewith


CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFAW-883
DATE
3 JUN 1970
HQS FILE NUMBER
201-749651
S-E-C-R-E-T
OFFICE
ORIGINATING
TYPIST
EXT.
/COG/OP/Daryl Geisler
kgb
7144
COORDINATING
28 May 1970
Distribution
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
OFFICER'S NAME
1 - WH/COG Chrono
C/WH/COG/OP
25/5
Glenn Brown
1 - Originator
OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
RELEASING
OFFICER'S SIGNATURE
C/WH/COG
25/5
James Flannery

DISPATCH
3 Jun 70

FORM
1-63
53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
MFG. 11 69


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# 91st CONGRESS
2d Session

# H. R. 17740

# IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

MAY 20, 1970

Mr. Rootso introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

# A BILL

For the relief of Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera.

1 Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representa-

2 tives of the United States of America in Congress assembled,

3 That Vladimir Rodriguez LaHera, who was lawfully ad-

4 mitted to the United States for permanent residence on July

5 2, 1964, shall be held and considered not to be within the

6 classes of persons whose naturalization is prohibited by the

7 provisions of section 313 of the Immigration and Nationality

8 Act.

III

CS COPY

H/watt to uFAW-853

201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET TELEPJUCH

DISPATCH NO - UFAV-373

FILE NO - 201-749651

DATE - 22 MAY 1970

INDEX - NO

FILM - NO

TO - CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI

INFO - NO

FROM - CHIEF, WESTERS HEMISPHERE DIVISION

SUBJECT - D CITIZENSHIP OF AMMLG-1

ACTION - SEE BELOW

REFS - UFAX-14 DATED 13 JAN 70

UFAW-771 DATED 3 FES 73

UFAA-1344 DATED 6 MAR 70

1. BILL NO. HR 17740 WAS INTRODUCED TO CONGRESS ON 20 MAY 1970 REQUESTING WAIVING THE TEN-YEAR PROVISION OF THE IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION ACT IN THE CASE OF AMMUG-1.

2. THE BILL WILL PROBABLY NOT PASS THIS SESSION OF CONGRESS, BUT ITS INTRODUCTION WILL INITIATE THE NECESSARY PAPER WORK MAKING CHANCES FOR PASSAGE OF THE BILL GOOD FOR THE NEXT SESSION.

JOYCE K. JANGIEL

COORDINATE:

* DISTRIBUTION:

3 - COS, WH/MIAMI

WH/COG/OP/Geisler:kgb 22May70
Distribution:

1 - 749651

1 - WH/COG/Chrono

1 - Originator

SECRET TELEPOUCH UFAS-373 PAGE ONE

![FI]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 6. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN. 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

AMMUG /1/
201-749651
SEX M DO8 ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
IDENTIFIED COMMERCIAL COUNSELOR IN CSR

201-824335
UFAA-01982
04 MAY 70

R 7005080080

FILE IN 201-749651

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# DISPATCH

DEFO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

CLASSIFKASYON
SECRET

FROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING
XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM:
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

SUBJECT
Status of AMMUG-1

MICROFILM

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: Para 2, below

References: A. UFAX-14
B. UFAW-771
C. UFAW-730

1. Forwarded herewith is the most recent contact report from Hensry 8. PACHANKIS concerning AMMUG-1.

2. As indicated, PACHANKIS broke the bad news contained in Reference B on AMMUG-1's citizenship. AMMUG-1 apparently took the news as well as could be expected. Nevertheless, the Station would appreciate periodic notice on the status of AMMUG-l's case so we may keep him informed on any progress.

3. In regard to Reference C, PACHANKIS probed in the area of wife problems and never really resolved the situation. PACHANKIS seemed to think, however, that the wife is still living with AMMUG-1.

Melvin D. KERSCHEN

Attachment:
Contact Report

Distribution:
3- Chief, WHD w/att h/w

MAR 6 1970

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFAA-1844

DATE
2 March 1970

CLASSIFICATION
S-E_C_R_E_T

HOS FILE NUMBER
201-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

estimated in the near future that only *ordinary* citizens of Czech citizenship are allowed to practice the office of translator, etc., and no more provision is made for foreigners. This prompted me to examine the possibility of converting my present indefinite stay here to permanent residence. In this regard, the Company would have to apply for a *Gewerbelegitimationskarte* to obtain a *Wandergewerbeschein*. I'm estate like to stress that providing I'm employed by the Company, this provides no obstacles even if I should not acquire Czech citizenship. I pointed out to Herr Weiss that lengthy doctors, not to mention authorites effort is being exercised to render a happy ending to this matter. I'm very corner patient and cause but I also have to know what results the whole action will have. He had occasion to leave the country on business. We would gladly help him obtain the necessary permit. To purchase the blow-up – assured him at this clause in law does not affect his chances as a legal resident.

3. "All" was naturally a bit set back by the decision, did not express any anger. I *assured* Herr Weiss he understood and was hopeful. My could receive the products (I hope, so too!)

4. Asked Herr Weiss whether in order and carry clear, I wanted to see his wife one day. Later he said, for as my knowledge this were not quite the way, but he did not go approving.

I have showed the pictures of Michal Kurtin dg Mr. Pantane to her (his cousin). K-1 does not recognize the pictures of the named.

Mary G. BACHMANIS.

H/W att/ UFFA 1844 US COPY 301-749651


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# DISPATCH

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief of Station, WH/Miami

Information from AMMUG-1 on Hector and Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart

Action Required: FYI

References: UFAA-1774

1. On 26 February when Henry S. PACHANKIS met with AMMUG-1 (201-749651) on his citizenship problem, information on the following two brothers was obtained:

Hector RODRIGUEZ Llompart
(201-276598)
Cuban Ambassador to East Germany

Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart
CIT: Cuba
DOB: 22 October 1932
POB: Regla, Havana, Cuba
OCC: Government

2. This information was as follows:

a. AMMUG-1 was asked if he had anything new to report, He brought up a most interesting case, one which could prove to be a valuable lead.

b. AMMUG-1 has known the RODRIGUEZ family since his childhood in Regla (a small town across the bay from Havana). The father had been a bolita banker during the Batista era.

c. AMMUG-1 was very friendly with RODRIGUEZ' two sons:

Roberto RODRIGUEZ Llompart
DPOB: c. 1934 in Regla, Havana, Cuba

Hector RODRIGUEZ Llompart

Distribution:

3 - Chief, WHID

201-749651

UFAA-1845

3 March 1970

201-276598


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET UFAA-1845

d. During the middle and late 1950s, Roberto had been a salesman for the Burroughs flour company and had stayed clear of the political picture in Cuba.

e. During the same period, Hector had been a student in the University of Ravana, under Raul ROA, and had taken part in some revolutionary activities. He had been arrested and beaten by the Batista police for his anti-government actions and his father had sent him into exile in the US.

f. When Castro came into power, the father was a potential *"var criminal"* for his illicit dealings. AMMUG-1, who was in the police force in the initial stages of the revolution, states that he deleted an incriminating page from the father's dossier (showing he paid off the police to run his bolita operation) and thus saved him from prosecution.

g. AMMUG-1 continued to be close to the family, especially with Roberto, *"whom I sav every day and ran around with."* Roberto never entertained the revolution. As late as 1962-63, *"We used to talk quite openly and frankly. He was always against the revolution and the communists. Ile worked in the Ministry of Industry because his brother got him the job, but he had only one idea in his head: to get out of Cuba and come to the US. He was even plotting to get out by boat. He had a US visa for many years and had visited here many times."*

h. When AMUG-1 defected, he lost contact with Roberto. But, about two weeks ago a neighbor from Regla came to Miami on the Freedom Flights. (COMMENT: This undoubtedly refers to Cuban refugee Segundo CASCUDO Gonzalez. Reference forwarded the AMOT debriefing of CASCUDO on Roberto.) When ANMUG-1 asked about Roberto, the neighbor said that he under- stood that Roberto, *"was assigned in a foreign Dabassy."* The refugee could not say what country Roberto was in.

i. This news prompts AMMUG-1 to comment: *"This would be a most interesting person to talk to. I don't think that he has changed his original way of thinking. I believe he took the job to get out of Cuba, and because of the influence of his brother Hector. I know he will talk to me and there is no telling what this man is capable of doing if someone approached him."*

j. Roberto is (or was) married to:

Zulema (Inu)
DPOB: c. 1934 in Cuba

They had two children and the wife was even more anti-Castro than Roberto.

k. Hector, the other brother, was a rabid revolutionary when AMMUG-1 last saw him in c. 63-64. He had joined the Castro bandwagon at the outset due to his revolutionary activities during the Batista era and his closeness to Raul RCA. In c. 1960-61-62, Hector was closely aligned


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH UFAA-1845

with "Che" GUEVARA and served in his entourages, even on foreign junkets. The vas very close to Che and traveled abroad a lot. He and were good friends be used to bring me gifts when he returned from trips but you couldn't even insinuate any opposition to the revolution, he was so fierce for it. I hear that ho is the Ambassador to Germany; I guess through his friendship with Raul ROA. I doubt if he has changed, but I can talk to him in complete confidence perhaps not like I could Roberto but I could know how hồ thinks".

3. Since Roberto appears to be an excellent recruitment target, we will have him watchlisted with a view toward having AMMUG-1 make an approach to him at the first opportunity. Although Hector appears far less vulnerable, ve vill consider an approach to him should he be transferred to a Free World country.

4. Please open a 201 file on Roberto.

Melvin D. KERSCHEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET

ADVANCE COPY

ACTION UNIT

WH8

ACTION N.O.

549

FILE, VR RIVAN. ENG ci calops fiz.

SECRET 032035Z MAR 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 6665

DIRECTOR INFO MADRID, PARIS

TYPIC UNCOSMIC

REF: A. PARIS 4569

B. DIRECTOR 059504 (NOT SENT PARIS)

C. WH/MIAMI 6046 (NCT SENT PARIS)

D. UFAA-1845 (NOT SENT PARIS, MADRID)

1. WH/MIAMI HAS GOOD ASSESSMENT FROM AMMUG-1 (201-749651, DGI DEFECTOR IN 1964) ON ROBERTO RODRIGUEZ LLOMPART, SUBJECT OF REFS. AMMUG-1 HAD CLOSE PERSONAL RELATIONSHIP WITH ROBERTO, WITH WHOM HE GREW UP IN REGLA, HAVANA. IN 1962 AND-63, THEY TALKED QUITE FRANKLY AND OPENLY. ROBERTO ALWAYS TALKED AGAINST THE REVOLUTION AND COMMUNISTS. HE HAD ONE PRINCIPAL IDEA--TO LEAVE CUBA AND GO TO STATES, EVEN BY BOAT. AMMUG-1 DOES NOT BELIEVE HE COULD HAVE CHANGED AND ONLY HOLDS CURRENT GOC POSITION BECAUSE OF BROTHER, HECTOR (231-276598), WHO IS AMBASSADOR IN EAST GERMANY. AMMUG-1 IS SURE ROBERTO WILL TALK WITH HIM.

2. AMMUG-1 SAID HECTOR WAS RABID REVOLUTIONARY

C.S. copy filed in 201-276598

SECRET

Rabera

201-749651

![photo of crossed out options]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 6565 SECRET

AND CLOSE TO RAUL ROA.. ALSO HAD BEEN CLOSE FOLLOWER OF
CHE GUEVARRA. AMMUG-I COULD ALSO TALK TO HECTOR IN
COMPLETE CONFIDENCE, BUT NOT WITH SAME CONFIDENCE AS
WITH ROBERTO.

3. DIRECTOR: POUCHING REF D, WHICH IS DEBRIEFING
   OF AMMUG-1 ON ROBERTO AND HECTOR.

4. MADRID: PLS PUT BOTH-BROTHERS ON WATCHLIST.
   ESPECIALLY INTERESTED IN PUTTING AMMUG-1 IN CONTACT
   WITH ROBERTO WHEN HE TRAVELES TO EUROPE AGAIN.

5. PARIS: PLS QUERY UNCOSMIC-1 FOR ANY FURTHER
   DETAILS HE CAN RECALL ABOUT TALKS WITH ROBERTO (REF A).

6 FILE 201-276598 AND 201-749651. GP-1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

UNCLASSIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: Chief, WHD

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|     | DATE RECEIVED       | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| --- | ------------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | DDP 18 FEB 1970     | 13 Febris      | GHK                |                                                                                                         |
| 2.  |                     |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3.  | Legislative Counsel |                | Jm                 |                                                                                                         |
| 4.  | M/e eDir            |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5.  | EA/DDCI             | 17711-1774     |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.  | DDCI                |                | lr                 |                                                                                                         |
| 7.  | 5R                  |                | ER                 |                                                                                                         |
| 8.  | C/WH                |                | J                  |                                                                                                         |
| 9.  | C/WH/COC            | 19 FEB 1970    | MP                 |                                                                                                         |
| 10. | DC/WH/CO6           | 19 FEB 1970    |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11. | C/WH/OPS            |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12. | Daryl               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13. |                     |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14. |                     |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15. |                     |                |                    |                                                                                                         |

SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

SECRET

WH/COG 70-46

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

THROUGH : Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT : Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera

1. This memorandum contains a recommendation in paragraph three for the approval of the DDCI.

2. Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera is a former Cuban national who defected to the United States in Nova Scotia, Canada on 21 April 1964. At that time he was an intelligence officer in the General Directorate of Intelligence, the Cuban external intelligence agency. He was brought to the United States under the provision of Section 7 of Public Law 110 (CIA Act of 1949). He has never been a member of the Communist Party, but due to his service in the Cuban external intelligence organization he is not eligible to petition for naturalization until ten years after the date of his defection, or 1974.

3. Mr. RODRIGUEZ desires to become a naturalized U.S. citizen at the earliest possible time and has requested assistance from this Agency. We request that a private bill be submitted to Congress waiving the ten-year provision of the Immigration and Naturalization Act in his case, enabling him to become a U.S. citizen after five years of residence. It is recommended that you authorize the Legislative Counsel to seek a private bill for RODRIGUEZ' relief.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

SUBJECT: Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera

4. Biographic Data and a Detailed Justification and Assessment on this case are attached.

![signature] William V. Broe
Chief,
Western Hemisphere Division

Attachments: (A) Biographic Data
(B) Detailed Justification and Assessment

Concur ![signature]
Legislative Counsel

16 Feb 70
Date

Concur ![signature]
Deputy Director for Plans

13 Fel 70.
Date

The recommendation in paragraph 3 is APPROVED:

![signature]
Deputy Director of Central Intelligence

17 Ocb 70
Date

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera

1.  Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera was born on 6 February 1937 in the City of Havana, Cuba, the son of Carlos RODRIGUEZ Ferrer and Josefa LAHERA Marrero. RODRIGUEZ' wife, Luisa Nelia RODRIGUEZ y Timoneda, born 24 August 1934 in Regla, Havana, and her two children by a former marriage, Vicente Maximiliano HERNANDEZ Rodriguez, age 19, and Francisca Luciana HERNANDEZ Rodriguez, age 17, legally entered the United States on 11 May 1965 and reside with Subject in Miami. Her parents, Pablo RODRIGUEZ Escobar and Sara TIMONEDA Valdes now reside in the United States.

2.  RODRIGUEZ attended Escuela Publica #46, first to sixth grade; Primaria Superior #19, seventh and eighth grade; Artes y Oficios (Construction Civil) one year; and Instituto de Habana for two years.

3.  Subject was a member of the Cuban Rebel Army from 1957 to 1961, during which time he advanced from the rank of Private to Lieutenant. He was imprisoned at Castello Principe, Cuba, from 14 July 1957 to 11 February 1958 for participation in sabotage and propaganda activities on behalf of the 26th of July Movement. He then joined Fidel CASTRO's forces in the Sierra Maestra and remained there until the end of 1958 when he returned to Havana upon the fall of the BATISTA Government. He was a precinct lieutenant of the Cuban National Police from November 1959 to December 1961, at which time he resigned from the Army under which he had held his position in the National Police. He was out of work until April 1962 at which time he was employed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade where he remained until he became a staff member of the General Directorate of Intelligence in August 1963. He was a member of this organization until his defection in Ottawa, Canada, on 21 April 1964, when he left his plane which was enroute from Cuba to Prague.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

-2-

4. Soon after RODRIGUEZ joined the General Directorate of Intelligence, he found he could no longer submit to having his thoughts and actions circumscribed by controls which deprived him of liberty and self respect nor continue to support the Cuban Government or be a part of its intelligence activities; he therefore planned to defect as soon as the opportunity arose. After deciding to leave Cuba permanently, he began a systematic collection of documents at the General Directorate of Intelligence Headquarters. He brought these documents with him to the United States as proof of Fidel CASTRO'S subversive activities in Latin America.

5. Subject is 5 feet 2 inches tall, weighs approximately 130 pounds, has a medium build and erect posture. He has a long face, medium complexion, black hair and brown eyes.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

DETAILED JUSTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT

1. Vladimir RODRIGUEZ LaHera has cooperated with this Agency since his defection on 21 April 1964 at which time he turned over to CIA documents from the General Directorate of Intelligence he had collected during the preceeding several months. In addition, he has provided voluminous, accurate and valuable information on the organization of the Cuban intelligence services, their operations, staff members and agents. These documents and information have given us the potential and opportunity to take effective measures to safeguard United States Government interests. Subject has been of great value in the past, and will continue to be in the future, in the CIA recruitment/defection program. His wide acquaintance among and knowledge concerning high level Cuban diplomats and Cuban intelligence personnel provides the Agency with the necessary background in planning operations against them and makes Subject ideal for use in carrying out the operations. His talents and contacts can be used not only in furthering the defector program, but in other types of political action and psychological warfare operations.

2. As a result of technical interrogations of RODRIGUEZ on 11 May 1964 and again on 15 July 1966, his bona fides have been established not only for intelligence exploitation purposes but also for the purpose of resettlement in the United States. There is no reason to believe that RODRIGUEZ is under the control of any hostile intelligence service.

3. The medical and psychiatric examinations have shown that RODRIGUEZ has no serious medical or psychiatric problems.

4. Mr. RODRIGUEZ has adjusted well to American life. He has been trained as a dental technician and has recently applied for employment with an airline company. It is believed that he would be a solid, responsible citizen.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# DISPATCH

13 Chief of Station, WH/Miami

INFO

**CLASSIFICATION**

SECRET

**PROCESS NG ACTION**

X MARKED FOR INDEXING

INO ADELING REQUIRED

JONLY CUFF DESK

(AN JUDGE INDEXING

**FROM** Chief, WHD

**SUBJECT** Citizenship of AMMUG-1

**ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES**

REFERENCE: UFAX-14

1.  On 27 January, Alien Affairs Staff advised that under Section 313 of Immigration and Naturalization Act, AMMUG-1 cannot become an American citizen until after 10 years from April 1964. While normal Cuban exile must wait five years, Communist party members must wait 10 yeaгз. AMMUG-1's position as "intelligence officer" is considered a "meaningful extension" of CP membership.

2.  In view of AMMUG-l's distinguished service to RVROCK, WH Division will submit a memorandum through appropriate channels requesting authorization to submit a bill to Congress to reduce AMMUG-1's waiting period from ten to five years. At this writing, we do not know how long this processing will take but will keep you advised.

3.  Paragraph 2 above is our intention and we naturally cannot guarantee approval at this time. If a special bill is passed by Congress, AMMUG-1 will go through routine application for Naturalization with RVROCK Buldance.

Distribution:

3- WH/Miami

James M. HAMMERSFAHR

**CROSS REFERENCE TO**

**DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER**

UFAN-771

**CLASSIFICATION**

SECRET

| OFFICE        | OFFICER  | ORIGINATING                   | EXT  |
| ------------- | -------- | ----------------------------- | ---- |
| WH/COG/OPS    | R. Ennfs | TYPIST mamd                   | 5061 |
| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE     | COORDINATING                  |      |
| C/WH/COG/OPS  |          | OFFICER S NAME Glenn O. Brown |      |

OFFLE SIMBOL COC

**TASING**

**OFFICER SIGNATURE**


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

E
SECRET TELEPOUCH
DISP NO - UFAX-14
FILE NO - 231-749651
DATE - 13 JANUARY 1973
INDEXING - NO
MICROFILM - NO
TO - CHIEF, WESTERN HEMISPHERE DIVISION
FROM - CHIEF OF STATION, WH/MIAMI
SUBJECT - REQUEST FOR ASSISTANCE ON CITIZENSHIP
- FOR AMMUG/1
  ACTION - PARA 5, BELOW
  REFERENCE - NONE

1. AMMUG/1 HAS A STRONG INTEREST AND NEED TO BECOME A "NATURALIZED AMERICAN CITIZEN. HE HAS MADE APPLICATION TO AVIANCA AIRLINE, WHICH IF ACCEPTED, WILL REQUIRE HIM TO TRAVEL TO COLOMBIA. HE HAS BEEN ASSURED THAT PVROCK WILL ATTEMPT ASSIST HIM IN OBTAINING HIS PAPERS.

2. AMMUG/1 HAS NOT FILED AN APPLICATION FOR "NATURALIZATION" LOCALLY BECAUSE HE IS AWARE THAT HE WILL BE REQUIRED TO ANSWER SPECIFIC QUESTIONS ABOUT HIS ENTRY INTO THE COUNTRY, ADDRESSES IN THE STATES, EMPLOYMENT REFERENCES, POLITICAL BACKGROUND, AND OTHER QUESTIONS IN DELICATE OPERATIONAL AREAS. HE REALIZES THAT HE CANNOT ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS WITHOUT PVROCK TUTORING. WH/MIAMI HAS APPROACHED THIS SUBJECT, IN A GENERAL WAY, WITH LOCAL IMMIGRATION" AND WE HAVE BEEN ADVISED THAT TO RESOLVE THE PROBLEM, WE WOULD HAVE TO HANDLE ON THE WASHINGTON LEVEL.

3. A REVIEW OF AMMUG/1'S HISTORY WILL

SECRET UFAX-14 ONE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

UFAX-14
SECRET PAGE TWO

SHOW THAT HE WAS BROUGHT INTO STATES BLACK
FROM CANADA IN APRIL 1964. HE WAS DEBRIEFED
FOR SEVERAL MONTHS BY HOS AND THEN SETTLED
IN MIAMI. HE WAS NOT PUT ON A COVER PAYROLL
UNTIL 1955 AND THEN TERMINATED ABOUT YEAR
LATER, AT WHICH TIME HE BEGAN OVERT JOB.
THUS, WOULD FACE EMBARRASSING PROBLEM
OF ANSWERING DETAILED IMMIGRATION QUESTIONS
ON ENTRY AND EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND, NOT
ΤΟ ΜΕΤΙΟ" PREVIOUS AMSTAFF EXPLOYMENT
POIO TO DEFECTIO".

4. AMFIG/I HAS BEEN ASSURED THAT SHOIND
   HE LAVE THE OCCASION TO TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE
   STIES I" THE NEAR FUTURE, WH/MIOLI IS IN
   A POSITION TO FACILITATE THE ISSUANCE OF
   A PEENTRY PERMIT IN A SHORT TIME. OUR
   LIAISON CONTACT IN LOCAL IMMIGRATION HAS
   ASSUP.ED US ON THIS POINT.

PLS NOTE THAT HENRY S. PACHA KIS
IS I" PERIODIC CONTACT WITH ANYUGDIS AND IS
CURRENTLY DEBRIEFING HIM ON THE CUIS NAMES
PROVIDED BY ANDEDEV/1. A DISPATCH ON THESE
OFERIFFINGS IS OF PREPARATION.

6. IN THE MEANTIME, HE RESUEST THAT
   HEADQUARTERS INITIATE ACTIO" IT INNIGRATIC"
   JOARD GRANTING ANNUG/I HIS NATURALIZATION
   010503, 5 FOOD ANY QUESTIONS THAT ANNLン!
   CA PROVIDE TO ACCOMPLISH THIS. IF IT WOULD
   PROVE TO BE MORE EXPEDITIOUS, IAI HAS
   GOJECTIONS TO SPO"SOSING A TRIP TO

UFAX-14
SECRET PAGE TO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

UFAX-14
SECRET PAGE THREE
"ASHINGTON BY AMMUG/1 TO HELP RESOLVE
ANY OUTSTA'DING QUESTIONS OR PROBLEMS
E"COUNTERED ON THE ABOVE. ALSO, A PROMPT
REPLY TO ANY ACTION HEADQUARTERS CAN TAKE
ON AMMUG/1°S CASE IS REQUESTED. THE AGENT
IS MOST ANXIOUS TO LEARN OF ANY PROGRESS
THAT IS MADE TOWARD HIS CITIZENSHIP.

NELVIN D. KERSCHE"

DISTRIBUTION

VIA TELEPOUCH

3- CHIEF, WESTER" HEMISPHERE DIVISIC"

LLFAX-14
SECRET PAGE THREE

3T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# DISPATCH

INFO Chief of Station, WH/Miami

FROM Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT TYPIC/AMMUG-1

On 30 December 1969, AMNIP-1 reported that AMMUG-1's wife called him on the day before Christmas and informed him that her father had been hospitalized with a heart attack and that AMMUG-1 had left her. AMNIP-1 called AMMUG-1's place of employment in Miami on the day after Christmas and was informed AMMUG-1 was not working that day. AMNIP-1 left a message for AMMUG-1 to call him but as of 30 December had not heard from AMMUG-1. AMNIP-1 commented that he thought AMMUG-l's wife was a little unbalanced mentally and although her parents are now in the United States and she has no real ties left in Cuba, that she is interested in returning to Cuba.

Howard A. TRECKLER

Distribution:
2 - COS, WH/Miami

UFAW-730

6 JAN 1970

201-749651

2 January 1970

Distribution:

1 - RID

1 - WH/COG/ChrgBO

1 - WH/CCG/OPS

WH/COG/OPS J. Piccolo mli 7144

DC/WH/COG/OPS Lawrence B. Sulc

C/WH/COG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

CABLE SECRETACAT DISSEMINATION
PERSANIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
**SECRET**
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RIO RET TO BRANCH DESTROY SIG.
INFO: RID COPY
FILE. VR. R/ON,

SECRET 312113Z JAN 69 CITE WH/MIAMI 2582 31 JAN 69 IN 84063
DIRECT OR

REF DIRECTOR 69780

1. CONTACT WITH AMMUG-I WAS REESTABLISHED 31 JANUARY BY PACHANKIS FOR WH/MIAMI WHICH HAD NEVER PICKED UP CONTACT FROM JMWAVE. PACHANKIS HAS MEETING WITH AMMUG-1 SCHEDULED FOR NIGHT 3 FEBRUARY TO SERVICE REF REQUEST.

2. FILE 201-287019 X REF 201-749651.

SECRET

![Signiture]

CS G

SECRET

![Numbers]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CABLE SECRETARIAT-DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT.NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES: 4

ROUP 1
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

OUTING AND/OR INITIALS: SEEN BY

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-749651

X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

DISSEM BY:
ACTION: WH-8
INFO: WH/COG-8, CI/OA, Secur-4

SECRET 292112 MAY 68 CITE JMWAVE 2567

DIRECTOR

AKULE PBRUMEN

REFERENCE: DIRECTOR 02905

CORRECTED ALIEN REGISTRATION CARD DELIVERED

AMMUG/1 20 MAY. PREVIOUSLY ISSUED CARD BEING

POUCHED UFGA-30127, 28 MAY.

SECRET

BT

SECRET

29 May 1968

29 MAY 68 IN 21190

AN: FI

PS: DEST

ABSTRACT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Alien Registration Cards: AMMUG-1

REFERENCE: UFGS-10530, 9 May 1968'

Referenced Alien Registration Card (corrected) was given AMMUG-1 on 21 May 1968. Forwarded under separate cover is the card formerly issued him.

![Signature of Julian T. PROCARIO] Julian T. PROCARIO

Attachment: U/S/C

As stated

Distribution:

3 - C/WHD w/att usc

2 - WHI/COG w/o att

![CS COPY]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-30127

DATE: 22 May 1968

HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-749651


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)