# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

VIA AIR

TO: Chief, W/D

DISPATCH NO. HW-A-1552

SECRET

DATE 29 June 1954

FROM: Chief of Mission, Mexico City

SUBJECT:
GENERAL-Operational
SPECIFIC -Subject of BMW-W-1507

REFERENCE: HPM-W-1507, 18 June 1954

TW/W-275

1. Subject is contacted by a member of this Mission about twice a month usually on a semi-social basis. Subject is quite familiar with the workings of the organization based on his experience in Panama, his frequent visits there, and his contacts with this office during the past years. From time to time subject provides bits of information or opinions on local affairs which he thinks may be of interest. Ways in which he could be of further operational use have also been discussed with him in general terms. Subject has provided his name for use in registering a station automobile and for obtaining postoffice boxes.

2.  Subject appears to be well versed in some of the operational methods of the organization and has always expressed a willingness to assist in any way possible. This might include acting as a cut-out, furnishing general political and Communist information, setting up cover establishments, and the development of informants in several fields. To date, no specific opening for his services has been evolved but it is highly likely that such a spot will appear in the future.

3. This Mission foresees no strong obstacle or reason against subject's being contacted by KUJUMP again but feels that if subject had any information of possible interest to this organization he would immediately contact the writer. In addition, such a contact might possibly re-kindle subject's previously expressed feeling that at times it appeared that "the left hand didn't know what the right hand was doing". It is suggested that if KUJUMP has any specific type of information in mind, questions indicating the line of interest could be forwarded to this Mission and placed before subject for his comment. If KUJUMP particularly desires to interview subject it is suggested that this Mission be authorized to so inform subject so that the matter will appear completely coordinated in subject's mind.

SECRET

FORM NO. 51-28
JUN 1949

RICOPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

HMRA-1952
29 June 1954
Page two

4. This Mission appreciates the receipt of reference as an excellent example of such coordination.

![signature of Gordon M. Ryerson]
Gordon M. Ryerson

GMR/crt

29 June 195

Distribution:
3-Wash
2-Files

SECRET

201 20000
![handwritten number]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

A1a

HR-4-1547

7...18 1954

: Chief of Mission, Mexico City

: Chief, AID

- Operational

- Subject of TM-4-775

AFP: TO-4-976

1. A representative of AI/IRP recently contacted subject, a "U.S. manufacturers' representative, who lives in Mexico City. After JIMMP made its standard explanation of KUBARK interests, the subject said that he felt that he should make it clear that he worked for KUBARK in Mexico. He qualified by saying that his extensive background and experience in Mexico enabled him to set up meeting places and front offices as well as other cover projects for KUBARK, AERIO and WHAVY.

2. Subject seemed quite candid and JMP had no reason to believe that he was not telling the truth. Subject doubted that he could give KUBARK a great deal of information which was not available through official agencies operating in Mexico. However, he seems to be morally knowledgeable on the situation there and JMP feels that he might be a source of some interesting information if their contacting him would not interfere with arrangements which your Mission might have made with him.

3. Headquarters requests your comments regarding subject. Please advise as soon as possible, since AI/IRP would like to contact subject again when he returns to this country in July.

11 June 1964

Distribution:
3 - Mexico City 1 - WH/Chrono
1 - WH/Mailroom
1 - RI
1 - Subj.

J. C. KING

WH/III/WJOgden/jw

J. C. KING
CAH

O. M. DOERFLINGER

201 30999

ABSTRACTIN_DEX

DATE APR 24 1955


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Chief, FI/Plan/Cover

Chief, Contact Division, 00

Alfonso R. Wichtrica (HH-1265)

11 May 1954

1.  A representative of this Division recently contacted subject, a US manufacturers' representative, who lives in Mexico City. Wichtrich was visiting representatives of the Nehi Corporation which is one of his accounts in Mexico City. After our representative made his standard explanation of agency interests, Wichtrich said that he felt that he should make it clear that he worked for the agency in Mexico. He qualified this statement by saying that his extensive background and experience in Mexico enabled him to set up meeting places and "front" offices as well as other "cover" projects for this Agency, the State Department and the Bureau.

2.  He seemed quite candid and our representative had no reason to believe that he was not telling the truth. Wichtrich counted that he could give us a great deal of information which was not available through official agencies operating in Mexico. However, he seems to be generally knowledgeable on the situation there and we believe that he might be a source of some interesting information if our contacting his would not interfere with arrangements which the covert offices might have made with him.

3.  We should appreciate your comments. If you prefer, we shall not see him again. On the other hand, if you have no objection, we should like to contact him when he returns to this country in July. Please advise.

E. M. ASHCRAFT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: AIR
DISPATCH NO.7MM-W.916
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

![redacted]CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico DATE: 1 February 1950

FROM:  O WICHTRICH, ALPHONSE R.

SUBJECT: GENERAL.

SPECIFIC. Operational
Subject of T--976

1. Subject was engaged by our field station, Panama, in October 1947 with the thought that he was qualified to organize a net directed against a target of high priority interest. His services were terminated in April 1549 when he took residence in Bexico for business reasons.

2. The Chief of Station, Farmas, cocopied this man as having great singloness of purpose which produces aperior results in the field of his primary interest. But the experience in anava rempaled that the subject's rinary interest - his business was son that he cave little tim to work as an agent.

3. The Subject or guated an inta Nigoooo net for the U.S. Army in China during Ford rack, therefore, understands covert operations. Despite his capabilities, proven reality and his expressed desire to to of vervice in caxion, Zencharters cops not recommend that the subjot be enraged by field station, ico, unless there is unusual need for a zan of his background

RECLASSIFIED

![redacted]

RI!

FMR:gee

RI/Files

pur 20 43-28

![signature]M. Wheeler
![signature]Tgan

STC

![signature]RELEASING OFFICER

201 30999
ABSTRACT BSTRATE
DATE AP255

![signature]COORDINATING OFFICER

![signature]CAUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

FORM NO.
JUN 1948 81-20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
ROUTING AND HECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "to" coluen. Under each comment a wine should be drawn
across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the nuser in the "To" column. Each officer should initial
Check mark Insufficient before further routing. This Recore and Routing Steet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

FOT

RAPUR

NO. TRP A. 650
DATE

| TO          | ROOM NO. | DATE        | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS              |
| ----------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------------ | --------------------- |
| 1. Connelly |          | REC'D Ne Ju | re                 |                       |
| 2.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 3.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 4.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 5.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 6.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 7.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 8. Reid     |          |             |                    |                       |
| 9.          |          |             |                    |                       |
| 10.         |          |             |                    |                       |
| 11.         |          |             |                    |                       |
| 12.         |          |             |                    |                       |
| 13.         |          |             |                    |                       |
| 14.         |          | 4-20        |                    | 201 30999             |
| 15.         |          |             |                    | ABSTRACT EY APR 2: 55 |

FORM NO. $1.10
ΕΡΩ 1948

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:
SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. 72-1-630

SECRET - KAPOK

CLASSIFICATION

TO: Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 16 January 1960

FROM: Chief of Station, Panama City, Panama

SUBJECT: GENERAL: Agents and Informants
SPECIFIC: Subject of TTP-A-629

The address of subject is:

Royal Crown, S. A.

Cante #4

Mexico, D. F.

![Signature of Howard W. Antell]

Howard W. Antell

FTA:rtp

Distribution: Wash 2
Files 1

FORM NO. 51-29 APR 1947

SECRET - KAPOK

CLASSIFICATION

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number in the "To" column. Each officer should initial Check mark insufficient! before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

| TO           | ROOM NO. | DATE      | OFFICER'S INITIALS | NO.                                                                                  |            |
| ------------ | -------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---------- |
|              |          | REC'D     | FWD'D              |                                                                                      | *G3PA-689* |
|              |          |           |                    | DATE 16 JAN 50                                                                       |            |
|              |          |           |                    | COMMENTS:                                                                            |            |
| 1. FDT 2014  |          |           | oh                 |                                                                                      |            |
| 2. Rodriguez |          |           |                    | File attached, Engineer discusses...                                                 |            |
| 3. Dean      |          | 25 Jan 25 | Wren               | 3&4 Please discuss the disp. with Vandernoort re a recommendation                    |            |
| 4. Fasiette  |          |           |                    | Fill Station Mexico                                                                  |            |
| 5. Reid      |          |           |                    | advised of Hydrolis recen arrival in Mexico. Dispatches written by COOVER TMM-41-975 |            |
| 9. Connolly  |          | 26 Jan    | ne                 |                                                                                      |            |
| 10. Reid     |          |           |                    | 201 30999                                                                            |            |
|              |          |           |                    | ABSTRACT INDEX DATE APR 21 1955                                                      |            |
| 15. SDR 1514 |          |           |                    | 10 OEO Registry JAN 23 1960                                                          |            |

FORM. NO. 31.19
APR 1948

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: AIR

DISPATCH NO. TPP-150

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

TO : Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 16 January 1950

FROM : Chief of Station, Panama City, Panama

SUBJECT: GENERAL- Agents and Informants

SPECIFIC- HEDRCL

The services of subject had been terminated prior to my arrival at this station and, in fact, subject has not been residing here since my arrival.

was introduced to me by HEDRCL. In the course of the conversation, subject indicated a desire, after he becomes more settled in Mexico City, to have contact with our office there.

Since Headquarters and particularly Grover J. TAPING are in a better position to judge subject and whether he might be of assistance to our station in Mexico City, no recommendation is being made.

The address of subject will follow in a separate dispatch.

Howard T. Antell

HR:rtp

Distribution: Wash 2
Files 1

REGISTRY COPY

SECRET

CLASSIFICATION

01, 30999

FORM NO. 51-20
APR 1947


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numberai to correspond with the romber in the "c" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

FOT

ACCESSION NO.
DP-A-607
DATE RECEIVED IN S. A

| TO   | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                      |
| ---- | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| Pal  |          | 17/1          |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
| Rein |          |               |                | yo                 | copy detached you Sen Jesser. |
|      |          |               |                |                    | 202.999                       |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |
|      |          |               |                |                    |                               |

201 30999

ABSTRACT

DATE APR 21 1955

FORM NO. S1-10
SEP 1945

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: AIR

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ

CLASSIFICATION

DISPATCH NO. TZP-A-607

TO: Chief, Foreign Branch T DATE: 4 November 1949

FROM: Chief of Station, Panama City, Panama

SUBJECT: GENERAL Administrative

SPECIFIC: HYDROL

For the completion of Headquarters' records, advice is herewith furnished that subject's services are not being utilized by the Panama City station. That fact was made known to Headquarters under date of April 12, 1949 in TZP-A-454.

No further action is contemplated in connection with this project.

Bruce O. Sturgess

BOS:rtp

Distribution: Wast 2'

Files 1

FORM NO. 51-20

APR 1947

SECRET - ΚΑΡΟΚ

CLASSIFICATION

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Chief, Registry Division

FROM: Chief, FBT

SUBJECT: Hydrol
File No. 202-999

DATE: 15 June 1949

1. Subject file is transmitted herewith for retention in Registry. The project has been terminated.

2. Appropriate indexing has been completed.

3. Access to subject file must be cleared with the Chief of FBT.

Note: Carded in R/co 10054

![document secret]

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

8 June 1969
Date

MEMORANDUM FOR CHIEF, CONFIDENTIAL FUNDS

Panama City, Panama
SUBJECT: Authorization of Field Project Expenditures for (Field Installation)

1.  This will inform you of the authorization of the following field projects and my approval of the expenditure of special funds for the following:

PROJECT

AMOUNTS AUTHORIZED 1949 TOTAL
Name or Symbol 1 July-30 Sep. 1 Oct-31 Dec. 1 Jan-31 Mar. 1 Apr-30 Jun
HYDROL Terminated
1 April 1949

TOTAL

2. The project expenditures hereundi: Panama City, Panama charged against the appropriate quarterly Operating Expenses of

cc: ICFF

W. W. WHEELER, JR.
Chief, Foreign Branch

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA:
SPECIFY AIR CR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. CI-1-464

CLASSIFICATION

TO : Acting Chief, FET

DATE: 12 April 1949

FROM : Chief of Station, Panama City, Panama

SUBJECT: GENERAL. Agents and Informants

SPECIFIC. LYTECL - Operational Review

OPERATIONAL REVIEW

COUNTRY: YAIER. PERIOD COVERED: October 1948 - March 1949.

1. Subject is no longer an active operative of this station. He was forced to discontinue his activities on our behalf because of the press of personal business. ELIATIC is now in contact with HIMACID and HITROL I has been taken over by HITORPHOSIC.

2. During the period of his connection with this station, HIMACL failed to submit any informational report which in itself merited transmission to the Home Office. None of his operations were clean in the sense that a U.S. Government influence had to be introduced into the actual activation of each of his sources. This coupled with the fact that he lacked follow-through has given a slightly sour aspect to all of his operations. We intend to discontinue our connections with Subject.

25 Jan 1950

Grover J. Karing

Were this man to apply for a staff position I would recommend that he be employed.

He is a man of great intelligence and purpose and possesses an unusual ability to express himself fluently. On the other hand, this quality which has generally been an asset, is also a drawback to his ability to perform assignments which would require him to engage in subterfuge. I would not recommend him for another country unless they needed such a man of unusual ability.

Distribution:

Wash (2)

Files (1)

![Registry Copy stamp]

CLASSIFICATION

FORM NO. 51-20
APR 1947


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

DOCUMENTS IN DOSSIER

TZP-A-102
TZP-A-381
TZP-A-454
A-690
A-687

TZP-151

TP. W. 975
TP. W. 976

Name check

Project terminated, April 1949

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

Memorandum for Chief, Special Funds

6 January 1949

Hydrol $150 for second quarter 1949

![signature]

![Terminated]

201 30909


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be trawn across sheet and each comment mmbered to correspond with the Lumber in the "To" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:

FRT

ACCESSION NO.
TZP-A-381
DATE RECEIVED IN S. A..

| TO     | ROOM NO. | DATE      | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| ------ | -------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.     |          | RECEIVED  |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Barton | 2216     |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 2.     |          | 9/12      | 77                 | Field informed by despatch on 9 Dec. thit them proges snot to be actioned a regerented bane Directed to allot $50.0 er month for Hydrol and an addition addition 600 for coday and expensi of this sub a gent |
| 3.     |          | FORWARDED |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 4.     |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 5.     |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 6      |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 7.     |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 8.     |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 9.     |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 10.    |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 11.    |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 12.    |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 13.    |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| 14.    |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                                               |


201 30999

ABSTRACTYLDEY

DATE. APR 21 1955

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

VIA: SPECIFY AIR OB SEA POUCH

DISPATCH NO. T2P-A-321

![SEI-Kapoh Classification]

TO: Acting Chief, FET

FROM: Chief of Station Panama City, Panoma

SUBJECT: GENEPAL- Agents and Informants SPECIFIC- HYDROL Operational Review and Project Report

DATE: 22 November, 1348

Ref: H No. 51
TZP - 151
TZP - A - 102
TZP - W - 321

COUNTRY: YAWNER

OPERATIONAL REVIE:

OBJECTIVES AND TASKS:
PERIOD COVERED: 20 October, 1947 to present.

Subject's original assignment was the establishment of an intelligence net for the Republic of Panama with a view to developing information on our various YAWNER objectives. The assignment was too broad because subject is establishing a new business and has not had sufficient time to devote to our work. His activities were redirected along the lines of cultivation of specific individuals. His cultivation and recruitment of the informant HYDRACID was excellent. His handling of the subject of TZP#A-C50 was excellent. His handling of HYDRATANTAC has been unsatisfactory in that he has not spent sufficient time on the project. He states he will correct this deficiency. His latest assignment is the penetration of communist circles in the National University of Panama. He has recruited an excellent individual for this purpose who will be employed at a salary of one Hundred Fifty Dollars ($150.00) per month. This project is approximately one year old.

SALARY

To date subject has not received a salary, but has been compensated socially and by

![SEI-Kapoh Classification]

201 30999

FORM 51-20 APR 1947


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET - Kapok

-2-

ZP - A - 331

EVALUATION OF SERVICES:

As stated above subject has performed excellent services but has not devoted a great deal of time to our work. His interest has greatly increased since you permitted HYDROL to receive home office training. He has fairly good contacts and is capable of cultivating almost any one we might wish. His services should become more valuable in the immediate future.

EVALUATICH OF INFORMATION RECEIVED:

To date subject's intelligence information has only been valuable as a supplement to other sources. His operational information has been excellent and is of real value. He is more interested in the operational side of cur activities than in reporting.

OTHER FACTORS:

This agent has been handled as outlined in T2F-151 subject to the modifications of increased social contacts necessitated by the fact that subject's wife is interested in the social advantages to be gained from her husband's activities.

COMMENTS:

We plan to continue using this agent to cultivate other potential agent personnel. His primary continous project will the penetration of communist activities in the National University of Panama. He may rearrange the relationship between DROL,

making curcheses for him in the government commissaries. We plan to place him on a salary status in the Mture. Men this is done we intend that his salary be One Hundred Dollars per month (100.0) per menus. He no longer has cover in his activities as concerns the C. S. Army in tais srca. This is due to the fact theyGen. Sibert CARCarib attempted to recruit him as an amy informant after subject at perfomed two week's active duty with Army Intelligence. To avoid refusing thei General's request, subject Infomed him that he was processing his infomation thrown LINE. Since that date, amy CIC men have called at subject's place cf business inquiring for information. However, we seen to have his real loyalty and me a re the ones who can provide him with funds to cultivate sub-agents.

SECRET - Kapok

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET - Katok TZP - A - 321

HYDRACID and NIIVE in view of HYDRACID's current schooling. This project is still in the development or probationary stage in that HYDROL's background is such that he regards the sky as the limit in the expenditure of Intelligence funds and is inclined to commit himself financially without real assurance that we will receive full value for the funds expended. Realizing that time is an important factor in the development of high level operations we hope this will prove to be the most efficient expenditure of our funds. If not we will convert the funds to other projects. As a matter of operational organization we feel our ultimate objective in this area should be to ferret out and operate with a minimum number of skilled American resident agents. Offsetting the criticism mentioned stove are the facts that subject man of real intensity and definitely a high level operative.

REQUEST:

It is requested that Project HYDROL be approved to permit an expenditure of Seven Hundred Fifty Dollars ($750.00) per quarter.

![signature of Shovel & Waring]

Shovel & Waring

Overseer During

SECRET - Katok EDI 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# Interview with Alfonso Rudolf Wichtrich by Paul P. Parton

1. On 17 November 1948, the subject called at Que Building and was interviewed by Paul P. Paxton. He had been advised to pay his respects to Harry A.. Real by the Chief of Station, Panama City. The subject to learn what the procedure would be if he wished to offer his services with CIA at a future date. At the present tire he is managing the Royal Crown Bottling Works in Panama City and is negotiating for a franchise to distribute a milk product in that area. His primary purpose in coming to the United States at this time was to make arrange- ments for this latter business venture. The subject has been aiding the Chief of Station in Panama for the past year in a manner that has been extremely helpful to our operations. During the war he was a Lt. Col. in United States Arsy Intelligence serving for a considerable time in China in an undercover capacity. He gives evidence of being very well versed in intelligence matters and shows, keen appreciation for security matters.

2. He stated that within six or eight months his private business affairs in Fanama would be developed to the point where he could accept. a position with this Agency in a full-time capacity. Ee evidenced interest in either the Latin American aras an in the Don Posterly China. Imade no commitéments as far as future employment is concerned but I did suggest that you visit this headquarters on his next visit to the United States providing he is in a position to accept full-time employment. I recommend that his application be given serious con- sideration in the light of his past intelligence experience and by virture of his valuable assistance to our operations in Fanasa.

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

M2 23963-Panama Canal-1-29-48-1,000

VIA: air

SPECIFY AIR OR SEA POUCH

DISPATCH No. T2P-151

TO : Acting Chief, FBT DATE: 9 July 1948

FROM : Chief of Station Aw

SUBJECT: GENERAL Agents and Informants
SPECIFIC Operational Data - HYDROL

Ref - TZP-A-102, TASH/F 8786 and PACY 188

BIOGRAPHICAL DATA

1. HYDROL.

2. Subject's background has been with the U. S. Army in China, where he organized a complete intelligence net. He is an organizer and planner and best qualified for the supervision of intelligence nets and informants, and intelligence operations in general.

3. He is a very personable individual and has the facility for getting along with Latins. He is very well accepted even though he has been here only a little over a year.

4. In Latin America because of his knowledge of Spanish. He is also well qualified to operate in the China Theater in view of his past experiences, although he has no knowledge of the language.

5. Subject makes frequent business trips to Mexico.

6. Subject has discussed plans for expanding his business into South America.

7. Subject has five people working for him. (a) HYDRACID; HYDRAMATIC; and the subject of TZP-A-269. He has also cultivated two unwitting informants, one of whom is a fairly prominent Arnulfista and the other is a socially prominent Panamanian and businessman on whom we will submit biographical data at a future date. (b) None of the people are paid. The subject of TZF-A-269 has been informed that we will defray any expenses which he may have incidental to our operations. HYDRACID has expressed a desire to have a savings or retirement fund opened for him in the United States. This we have agreed to do and estimate that the cost will be about $100 to $150 per month.

FORM NO. 81-8

APR 1947

201 109.99

(788)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

8. Lo.

9. In view of the fact that subject contacted the Home Office prior to his departure from the United States, he is thoroughly cognizant of the ultimate destination of his information.

10. Yes. In view of HYDROL's experience in the intelligence field he has been given the assignment of supervising and controlling the activities of HYDRACID who has an excellent knowledge of the local situation but lacks experience as an intelligence operative. This also serves to maintain EYDRACID's cover.

11. Through letter drop. In addition frequent personal contacts take place between HYDROL and the Chief of Station. These are usually at night at the homes of the individuals concerned. Cover is provided in that the Chief of Station and HTCROL both have children attending the same school and the wives are acquainted socially.

12. Subject usually reports orally, accompanying his oral reports with brief notes. He is training the subject of TZF-A-269 and EY RACID to report in writing.

13. During the 1½ years subject has been in Panama, he has been principally concerned with establishing his own business. He has devoted only a spail percentage of his time to our wrk to date, however, since he is now better established and better oriented, it is contemplated that he will become more active.

14. Contract with subject is oral. A written contract will be prepared at the time he is placed on our payroll.

15. Yes. He is attempting a high-level penetration of the Partido del Pueblo. At the present tize, a foreign national who has been approached by HYDRACID is attempting to buy one of the Directors of the Partido del Pueblo.

16. Subject is quite capable of using his own judgment on the sort of work he is to do. Since his time has been limited in the past, he has confined his activities to projects specifically requested by this Station.

PAYLENT

17. Subject is a volunteer informant who is rewarded for his services by the occasional presentation of exchange commodities. Since subject does not have U. S. Government Commissary privileges, purchases on his behalf are rade by the Station. This results in approximately 60% reduction in the cost of necessities purchased in this manner.

18. Ies. Salary arrangements have been discussed between HYDROL and the Chief of Station. He both agree that no salary should be paid until such time as he becomes more productive. It is contemplated that when we actually


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

SECRET

start peyzont the figure will be something less than $150.00 a month and it will probably be placed into some sort of a savings account. This plan may be placed into effect at any time.

19. Subject has been informed that we will defray all expenses incurred by him on our behalf.

20. No cost of purchase of information is involved but he is authorized to engage in this practice.

EVALUATION OF SUBJECT'S WORK

21. Subject appears to be a highly dependent individual. (a) The accuracy of his reports have been good. (b) From a security angle he is excellent.

22. In view of subject's previous intelligence background, it is believed he is only suitable for semi-covert work.

23. Subject is unquestionably a high-level operative and quite possibly might penetrate any of the local social or government circles, but again his background from China is such that it would probably be impetite to accomplish a penetration of any leftist organizations or foreign intelligence agencies.

![signature]

SECRET

- 3 -

201 309.99


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

YAGUAZA

Panama
IX 38550
PACT 183
29 Mar 48

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

NICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph

Panama
IN 38550
PACY 188
29 Mar 48

*01 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

STANDARD FORM NO. 64

# Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : FBT

DATE: December 23, 1947

FROM : CSB

SUBJECT: WICHTRICH, Alfonso R.

Reference is made to your memorandum of October 31, 1947, wherein you request that this office conduct a four way name check relative to the above- entitled subject.

This is to advise that a four way check was instituted concerning the subject, with the following results:

*   L-5 Nothing identifiable
*   L-3 No record
*   L-1 Nothing derogatory.

There is transmitted herewith a copy of a report obtained from the files of Confidential Goverment Agency 1-2; in requested that this report be re- turned to this office when it has served its purpose.

The above completes our action in this matter unless advised to the con- trary.

![Signature of Robert H. Cunningham]

ROBERT H. CUNNINGHAM
Chief, Security Branch, 050

1 Incl.
L-2 Report

![handwritten notes "Info sent to field on 26 December 1947. ??. T2P- Q-102 SECRET 201 30999"]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# CONFIDENTIAL

WICHTRICH, Alfonso Rudolph

4 December 1947

On December 3, 1947 the investigative files of Confidential Government Agency (L-2) were examined and disclosed the following:

Included in the file is an Investigative report dated June 25, 1943 regarding one Captain Al. R. Wichtrich, my Serial Number 0377220, which revealed no adverse information regarding Subject. It was mentioned, however, by four informants that Subject's father was suspected of having pro-German leanings during World War #l, but these suspicions were not verified by the informants. Persons interviewed vouched for Subject's father's loyalty at the time of the investigation.

It was noted that Subject's Personal History Statement dated February 16, 1943 indicates that he was born on the tigation verified the fact, however, that Subject was born in Chihuahua, Mexico on October 30, 1915.

In a casual conversation with another officer, Subject volunteered the following information with respect to records of his birthplace. Subject stated that he had no birth certificate and had moved from Chihuahua, Mexico to El Paso, Texas, with his parents, when he was one or two years of age. Subject stated that he had never inquired about, nor realized that he was born in Chihuahua until he was in high school, having previously presumed that he was born in the locale in which is childhood was spent, Viz; Willcox, Arizona.

Subject stated further that he gave his birthplace as Willcox, Arizona on his application for enlistment in ROTC to eliminate conflict with any previous records which would then require act of "red tape" in making what he considered then a minor discrepancy of no consequence, inasmuch as his father's naturalization automatically made him (Subject) a citizen of the United States.

It was the opinion of the officer making the above report on Subject's birthplace; that any conflicting records of Subject's birthplace was not due to any motives of subterfuge, but was most probably due to Subject's desire to expedite his entrance into college without encountering

CONFIDENTIAL

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

-2-

the difficulties of time required and uncertainty of results in procuring certain papers which might be required if Subject were to indicate Chihuahua, Mexico, as his birthplace.

The file indicates further that records of the Superior Court, County of Cochise, Bisbeo, Arizona, disclose that Subject's father, Gustave Wichtrich, was naturalized at Tombstone, Arizona, September 15, 1923; Certificate Number 1730933; Port of Entry, El Paso Texas, June 19, 1916. On his petition for naturalization, Subject's father gave as one of his several sons, Alfonso Wichtrich who was born at Chihuahua, Mexico, on October 30, 1915. Subject's family was residing at Willcox, Arizona, on May 15, 1922. Subject's father was born in Germany.

The above-mentioned Personal History Statement indicates that Subject's mother is Domina Penn Wichtrich who was born in Mexico of Spanish National origin. As of February 16, 1943, her application for U. S. citizenship was in process.

JER:mom

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET??

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet, should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each comment numbered to correspond with the number is the "To" column. Each officer should initial heck cork insufficient) before further rating. This Record and Routing Sheet should be returned to Registry.

FROM:
FST

ACCESSION NO

DATE RECEIVED IN S. A.

| TO  | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| --- | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 2.  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 3.  | CIC      |               | *8/11          |                    | ① par 4 basic er, no derog story information is Contained in MID files on this individual. The files are not made available to this office, but acre searched by responsible a individual |
| 4.  | Paxton   |               | *0/12          | P.P                |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 5.  | IDA      |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 6.  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 7.  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 8.  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 9.  |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 10. |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 11. |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 12. |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 13. |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 14. |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| 15. |          |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                                           |

FORM NO. 51-10
RFP MAR

201 30999

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

#

5 November 1947

TO:
Chief, Liaison Control
Att: Er. Gaynor

FROM: Chief, Foreign Branch for R. G. Rediy

SUBJECT: Alfonso Rudolph WICHTRICH

Your attention is directed to paragraph 4 of the attached dispatch wich mentions a document in the hands of the Military Intelligence Division of the Department of the Army. This office and is forwarding this request for the appropriate action you deem necessary.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# OFFICIAL DISPATCH

**SECRET**

VIA: Air

Classification

Dispatch No. 172-19-102

Date 20 October 1947

TO: FBT

FROM : TZP

SUBJECT: General -- Operations

Specific -- Alfonso ñudolph ICHTRICE alias al WICETRICH

1.  Subject is a United States citizen born 30 September 1915 in Mexico. He is a Catholic and the owner of a house located near Radio Station HOX in Golf Heights, A. de P. which he purchased from Inck Fidanque. His business partner in the Pan American Industries Co. Inc. is George M. ARIAS, who is Secretary and Manager of the company. Other key men are Enrique Lefevre, Vice-President; and madeo Lupi, Treasurer. He speaks fluent Spanish and appears to be getting along very well with the more influential Panamanians. The telep crs number of the Pan American Industries Co. Inc. chartered for bottling Royal Crown Cola where ICHTRICE has his office is ranama 3490-A, located at Calle 30 y Justo Arosemena. His office hours are 0900 to 1200 and 1430 to 1730. His post office address is Box 1121 Ancon, Canal Zone. It is believed he was decorated by the Koumentang Covernment for his service in China.

2.  His wife is Rachel B. WICHTRICH also a U. S. citizen. She was born 13 February 1917 in Avoco, Texas. She is the bearer of U. S. passport 146432. Her brother is believed to be employed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

3.  WICHTRICH is the father of two children, a girl approximately age 7 and a boy of about 4. He is planning a business trip to Mexico City, Mexico on 2 November 1947. He will be accompanied by his wife and remain in Mexico until 15 November at which time he will return to Punama.

4.  Subject states there is a complete file concerning him in the hands of the military Intelligence Division of the Department of the Army. It would be appreciated if you would obtain their file and forward all pertinent information to this station.

SECRET

201 36999

54-6-4

110600


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET.

INSTRUCTIONS: Officer designations (see separate sheet) should be used in the "To" column. Under each comment a line should be drawn across sheet and each cozent numbered to correspond with the number in the "To" column. Each officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing. This Record and Pouting Sheet should be returned to Regist

FROM:

ACCESSION NO

Jo oct 47 T.I.P.A-102

DATE RECEIVED IN S.A.
OCT 301947

| TO        | ROOM NO. | DATE     | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                                                         |
| --------- | -------- | -------- | ------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------- |
|           |          | RECEIVED | FORWARDED          |                                                                  |
| 1. FBT    | 2211     | 801      |                    |                                                                  |
| 2.        |          |          | 7.                 | Carbon copy fennich Security                                     |
| 3.        |          | 30/10    |                    | Results of check sent to fueden za Dec-1947 Nothing clarogatory. |
| 6.        |          |          |                    |                                                                  |
| 7.        |          |          |                    | 30/10 4-way name click regut.l.                                  |
| 8.        |          |          |                    | e Read.                                                          |
| 9.        |          |          |                    | 4-way name Check attached                                        |
| 10.       |          |          |                    |                                                                  |
| 11.       |          |          |                    |                                                                  |
| 12.       |          |          |                    |                                                                  |
| 13.       |          |          |                    |                                                                  |
| 14. INDEX |          |          |                    |                                                                  |
| 15        |          |          |                    |                                                                  |

![MICROFILME AUG 19 1963 DOC. MICRO. SER.]

CS COPY

01 30999

ABSTRACT

DATE APR 21 1955

FORM NO. 51-10

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

OFFICIAL DISPATCH

SECRET

Classification

VIA: Air

Dispatch No. T2P.A-102

Date 20 October 1947

![MICROFILMED AUG 19 1963]

TO : FET

FROM : T2Pngw

SUBJECT: General -- Operations

Specific -- Alfonso Rudolph WICHTRICH
alias Al WICHTRICH

1. Subject is a United States citizen born 20 September 1915 in Mexico. He is a Catholic and the owner of a house located near Radio Station HOX in Golf Heights, R. de P. which he purchasei from Jack/Fidanque. His business partner in the Pan American Industries Co. Inc. is George M. Aklas, who is Secretary and Manager of the company. Other key men are Enrique Iefevre, Vice-President; and Amadeo Lupi, Treasurer. He speaks fluent Spanish and appears to be getting along very well with the more influential Panamanians. The telephone number of the Pan American Industries Co. Inc. chartered for bottling Royal Crown Cola where WICHTRICH has his office is Panama 3490-A, located at Calle 30 y Justo Arosemena. His office hours are 0900 to 120 and 1430 to 1730. His post office address is Box 1121 Zeon, Canal Zone. It is believed he was decorated by the Hounentang Government for his service in China.

2. His wife is Rachel E. WICHTRICH also a U. S. citizen. She was born 13 February 1917 in Avoca, Texas. She is the bearer of U. S. passport #146432. Her brother is believed to be employed by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

3. WICHTRICH is the father of two children, a girl approximately age 7 and a boy of about 4. He is planning a business trip to Mexico City, Mexico on 2 November 1947. He will be accompanied by his wife and remain in Mexico until 15 November at which time he will return to Panama.

4. Subject states there is a complete file concerning him in the hands of the Military Intelligence Division of the Department of the army. It would be appreciated if you would obtain their file and forward all pertinent information to this station.

INDEX

SECRETS COPY

20 Oct 47

201 30999


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

OSS Form 2262a

FROM:

ADO

CONFIDENTIAL

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Accession Ho. ...............

3 07

Date Rec'd SA ..............

|     | Room No. | Date   | Officer's Initials | Comments                                        |
| --- | -------- | ------ | ------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | PPS      | Rec'd. |                    |                                                 |
|     | 103      | Pat'd. |                    |                                                 |
| 2.  |          |        |                    | Request that subject be called in for interview |
|     |          |        |                    | with Mr. Leddy.                                 |
| 3.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 4.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 5.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 6.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 7.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 8.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 9.  |          |        |                    |                                                 |
| 10. |          |        |                    |                                                 |

Each comment should be numbered to correspond with number in To column.
A line should be drawn across sheet under each comment.
Officer Designations should be used in To column.
Each Officer should initial (check mark insufficient) before further routing.
Action desired or action taken should be indicated in Comments column.
Routing sheet should always be returned to Registry.
For Officer Designations see separate sheet.

201-30999

(20640)

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

- Interviewer's Report

SOURCE: Field- Casual
Referred by

DATE: 8 Nov 46
RECOMMENDED FOR BRANCH:
CONTROL NO:

1. NAME: WICHTRICH AL R GRADE:
   BRANCH:
   (last; (First) (middle)

2. SERIAL NUMBER:
   ORGANIZATION:
   DATE OF BIRTH:

3. ADDRESS:
   Tel. No.:
   Business or Military

4. 3444 GUNSTON RD ALEX VA Tel. No. AL 8357
   Home

4. CITIZENSHIP: (how acquired)
   RELIGION:
   U.S.- naturalization in Mexico- methodist by nativity

5. EDUCATION: (schools, degrees, dates, majors, grades, extra curricular activities)
   AB-1939-UN. OF ARIZ- Range ecology, animal husbandry

6. LANGUAGES: (degree of fluency, how acquired)
   SPANISH- FLUENT

7. FOREIGN EXPERIENCE: (extent, purpose)
   CHINA- 2YRS WITH MIS-X. CPU BRANCH, MISWOG-2

8. PRINCIPLE CIVILIAN EXPERIENCE: (main occupation, special skills, accomplishments, elective offices)
   RANGE ECOLOGIST- DEPT OF AGR.

NOW MEMBER OF FIRM ESTABLISHING BOTTLING PLANTS
THROUGHOUT CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA.

9. MILITARY EXPERIENCE: (principal duties, service schools, physical profile, if officer: manner of performance rating; if EM: AGCT score, Spec MOS, degree of skills, MOS and NCO Nos, and titles)
   Entered Army, Jan 41-MAR 46- LT. COL.
   Served at FT. RILEY-CRTC
   Completed G-2 COURSE AT LEAVENWORTH. PLUS MIS-X COURSE IN WASHINGTON.

10. ANY UNFAVORABLE CIRCUMSTANCES: (civil or military)

5-30999
202-1322


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

11. REMARKS: (any additional pertinent information)

Not personally intrested in a spot- lent that he and other officials of the corporation (ex- officio) are intrested in being of any assistance they can.

12. CLEARED AS AVAILABLE BY:

13. SERVICE RECORD CHECKED: Form 66-1 Form 20

14. RATINGS:

Motivation - Energy, effort,
initiative, interest in assignment.

Practical Intelligence - Judgment
decisiveness, alertness, perception.

Stability - Emotional control and
maturity, absence of nervous symptoms.

Ability to work with Others - tact,
absence of annoying traits.

Leadership - Organizing ability,
ability to win cooperation.

Physical Ability - Appearance,
presence, vigor, stamina.

![signature]
(Interviewer's Signature) (Rank and Br. of Service) (CIG Branch)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

August 30, 1916

MEMORANDUM TO Mr. Lightsey
Subject: Lt. Colonel Al R. Wichtrich (Inactive)

Some months ago, Lt. Colonel Al R. Wichtrich, 3444 Gunster Road, Alexandria, was recommended to me as a possible candidate for service in China.

During the war he headed up the AGAS in China for G-2.

He was recommended to me by Colonel Edward R. Johnston formerly of G-2.

![signature]
KINGMAN DOUGLASS
"B" Deputy
Office of. Special Operations

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# Office Memorandum UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : Mr. Eyron C. Sarvis
Chief, Procurement Section
Personnel Officer, CIG

DATE: 6 September 1546

FROM :

SUBJECT: Memorandum re - Lt. Col. Al R. Wichtrich (Inactive)

The attached memorandum of 30 August 1945 from Kingman Douglase, with regard to Colonel Wicatrich, is referred to you for consideration.

Since it would expear that Colorel Wichtrich would be of more value to S.0., it is forwarded for consideration by officials in that Branch.

This correspondence has been recorded in the Central Records of CIG and I should be advised if you desire to retain it in your files.

![Signature of Judson E. Lightsey]
JUDSON E. LIGHTSEY
Personnel Officer,

Attachment

cc: Central Records, CIG (2)

*ner. Walle*

![CONFIDENTIAL stamp] 2150999
202-185


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

Lt. Col. Al R. Wichtrich (Inactive)
3444 Gunster Road,
Alexandria, Virginia

5 November 1946

Dear Sirs

Your name has been referred to us by Colonel Edward R Johnston as a person who might be interested in a possible assignment with this organisation.

Although we are not presently engaged in a general recruiting program, we are always interested in specially qualified personnel.

If you are interested in exploring the possibilities of employment with this organisation, it is requested that you call at this office for interview. We are located at the South Building, 2430 E St. H.W.

Thank you for your cooperation.

BYRON C. SARVIS Chief,
Personnel Procurement Section
Project Support Division


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)