2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED.

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Stephen Van Cleave

REFERENCE: Telecon Ames/Pangburn, 8 April 1974

FROM: William D. Pangburn, Atlanta RO
Washington Field Office

EXTENSION NO. ATL-53-74

DATE 9 April 1974

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICER'S INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1. Support Branch, DCD
   Attn: OSS (EAmes)

Attached is the subject tape to use as you see fit

HH - 25695

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

![11078]

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONFIDENTIAL

OSS-495-74
13 March 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Mr. Stephen Van Cleave

1. On 27 and 28 February calls were received from Bill
   Cantrell, OPS/ITG, and Dave Dewhurst, WH/4/AR, concerning
   00-A(S)-322/03435-74. Cantrell wanted to be sure FBI had
   information and (Dewhurst wanted to advise DCD that there was
   a file on subject and DCD should be aware of some of his
   background. Evan Ames stopped in to see Dewhurst on his
   next visit to headquarters and received a fill-in on subject's
   background.

2. Subsequently a call was received from Charlotte in
   C/WH Division office (x-7350). It was imperative to determine
   the exact date of contact with Van Cleave as C/WH, thru
   Legislative Counsel, had advised Congress on 7 January 1974
   that the Agency had no contact with Van Cleave. Atlanta and
   Miami were contacted and date of first contact was set at 25
   January 1974. Both offices were requested to provide a record
   of contact with Van Cleave. Atlanta had several hours of tape
   (from first and second meeting) which Pangburn would have transcribed
   and forwarded for the record. Called John Peterson later and
   advised that WH has asked that tapes also be forwarded to
   headquarters for retention.

3. We were advised that the Congressional inquiry on
   Van Cleave resulted from a remark overheard at a cocktail
   party that Van Cleave had commented that he was working with
   CIA under cover. Van Cleave was scheduled as potential witness
   of House Internal Security Committee so House had inquired
   as to whether his appearance would embarrass the Agency. As
   noted, response on 7 January was that Agency had no contact with
   Van Cleave.

LILLIAN GRANT

File HH 25695
cc: Services Branch (Control)

CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)