14-00000
104-10129-10034
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

19 June 1962

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Technical Services Division

ATTENTION: Mr. (Clay) Lallande
Room 228, Hqs

FROM: Enrico of Security/SS
Attn: Mr. Bohmer
Room 4-E-38

SUBJECT: Request for U.S. Army Credentials

REFERENCE: Briefing 22 May 1962

1. The Technical Services Division is requested to prepare seven U.S. Army credentials in alias for the seven individuals who are identified in the attached cover identity charts.

2. The credentials should identify a staff NCO with the U.S. Army, Joint Transportation Group, and the title hadged (LIVES). All seven individuals should be (LIVES).

3. The credentials will be utilized primarily in the Northwestern part of the United States and possibly in Latin America. In pursuit of the mission of Task Force W, verification of the credentials will be on a controlled basis as directed by the Chief of Station, JMWAVE.

4. The aliases set forth in the attached identity charts have been registered with Hqs. Pertinent biographical data for each individual is also set forth on the identity charts.

5. Photographs for all seven individuals are being obtained and will be furnished to you as soon as possible.

DDS/IOS
ADDS/IOS
ASST/IOS
ID
OSD
SRD
AB
PB
SAB
SB

![signature]

![SECRET] PSO #214442 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

6. When the credentials are prepared and are ready for presentation, they should be sent to Mr. Ed FITZGERALD, Control Cover Branch, Room 1-E041, so that he may inform the newly accrediting officer of the Joint Operations Group that is will cover credentials. After Mr. FITZGERALD signs all the credentials, he should forward them, to Hq, Potomac Liaison, Security Delivery Unit, Room 51402

7. Any questions regarding the above-stated matters should be directed to Mr. LUDEK on ext. 5903.

JOHN F. KRAUS
Chief of Records
Task Force V

Attribution:
F. Kimberly Crowe

SAF/DD:cas
(12)

# SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)