# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

FRP:

DEFERRED TELEPOUC

ACTION: IP/DP-9 (791) INFO; FILEVORF, UDPD-D, (11/W)

78 0705837

ACTION PAGE 001
TOR: 161246Z MAY 78

SECRET 1612127 MAY 78 DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

CITE BRUSSELS 51113 (GOERLICH ACTING) BRUS 51113

TO: WASHINGTON.

FOR: EUR/BNL INFO EUR/A, SA/DO/O, DC/EUR/NW.

SUB: WNINTEL NIFLAIR NIGALE - FLEMISH ORDER OF MILITANTS

REFS: A. WASHINGTON 213077
B. BRUSSELS 51014 0661601

1. NITRUST HAS RESPONDED ORALLY TO OUR NOTE CONCERNING
   PASSAGE OF WIGALE INFORMATION ON THE VLAAMSE MILITANTENORDE
   (VMO) TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS. GIST OF HIS
   COMMENT: HE WILL NOT PASS US INFORMATION ON POSSIBLE VMO-
   AMCIT CONTACTS, BECAUSE THE FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT WILL
   PLACE SUCH INFORMATION AT RISK; AND IN GENERAL HE WILL NOT
   APPROVE PASSAGE OF NIGALE INFORMATION ON THE VMO TO CONGRESS
   BECAUSE HE HAS INSUFFICIENT ASSURANCE THAT THE MATERIAL WILL
   NOT LEAK, DESPITE OUR ASSURANCES THAT THE SUBJECT WOULD BE
   HANDLED AS CLASSIFIED AND SENSITIVE.

2. WE ARE AWAITING WRITTEN REPLY TO LEARN WHETHER THERE
   ANY GIVE IN NITRUST ATTITUDE. RE AMCIT ASPECT, WE SUSPECT
   THERE IS MEASURE OF POSTURING ON NITRUST'S SIDE. IN REF B
   ACOS/NIGALE-75 DISCUSSION, LATTER REMARKED THAT TO BEST HIS
   KNOWLEDGE THE ONLY KNOWN VMO CONNECTION WITH AMERICAN WAS
   INCIDENT IN ABOUT EARLY 1977 WHEN ORGANIZATION MET BRIEFLY
   WITH AN AMERICAN NAZI PARTY MEMBER WHO HAD BEEN EXPELLED FROM
   UK AND PASSED THROUGH BELGIUM. HE DISCUSSED THE CASE WITH US
   AT THE TIME (NAME OF TRAVELLER NOT RECALLED BY N-75 OR ACOS).

3. THERE IS NO WAY WE CAN DISLODGE NITRUST'S OBVIOUS
   MIND SET ON THE CONGRESSIONAL SITUATION. QUESTION OF CONGRESS
   ASIDE, IF HEADQUARTERS CAN PROVIDE SPECIFICS ON FOIA MECHANICS
   WHICH WE CAN USE TO COUNTER (N) TRUST'S ASSERTION THAT RTACTION
   CANNOT PROTECT LIAISON SOURCES PROVIDING INFORMATION ON
   AMERICANS, WE WOULD BE HAPPY TO MAKE SUCH POINTS WITH NITRUST.

SECRET

6822


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

DEFERRED TELEPOUCH

78 0705837 PAGE 002 BRUS 51113
TOR: 161246Z MAY 78

HE IS OF COURSE AWARE OF OUR "SOURCES AND METHODS" POSITION,
BUT IT'S CLEAR THAT HE'S NOT PERSUADED THAT WE ARE HOLDING THE
LINE.

4. FILE: 008-002-009/3. E2 IMPDET.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)