104-10188-10015

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

1.  THIS DOCUMENT 15 CH

2.  RETURN THIS DOC

UTIL ON ASSAS TEATICIS STAGE CALVETES

RM GA-50, ON EVOLI: KDAFGHAN VOL. T.

3.  IF YOU FORM

INDIVIDUAL

JUPPORT
50-6-122/2

VE DATES:

25 SexT 64- 14 MAR 7V

FORM

179 HAL UNIT/LOCATION: LAD 10.00

ROOM: 3can4

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE REVIENING OFFICIAΙ. |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------- |
| 2614/78       | 5/26/78       | 87: HARDWAY.             | Dam Handiwang                 |
| 5 July 78     |               | 0. HARDWAY               | Haraway                       |
| 21 JUL 17     |               | HARDWAY                  | Hardwar                       |
| 12/20/78      |               | HARDWAY                  | Handuray                      |
|               |               | Berk                     | Fok                           |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

![photo of LE]

![photo of RETIRED FILE DESENSITIZER]

PROJECT KDAFGHAN

VOLUME I

SECTION SUPPORT

A122/2

Ider 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

NOTICE

THIS FILE HAS BEEN PROCESSED AND RETIRED. **DO NOT**

ADD ANY DOCUMENTS TO THIS FOLDER. FORWARD CS

DOCUMENTS THAT SHOULD BE INCLUDED IN THIS FOLDER

TO RID/RPU GE-58.

NOTICE

CONFIDENTIAL

FORM
2-65 2593

(7-13)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

FROM: (Headquarters component)

TO:

IP/AN

TO: (Station/Base)

MEXICO CITY

FROM: (Division)

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FILE REQUEST AND FIELD NOTIFICATION OF ACTION

INFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

COMPLETE ITEMS 1 THROUGH 12

ITEM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STERILE SINCE THEY WILL APPEAR ON THE FIELD COPIES AND ON MACHINE LISTS

ITEM 6-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STERILE.

ITEM 7 AND 8-USE FIRST THREE LETTERS OF DISPATCH SYMBOLS FOR FIELD STATIONS AND LIST HEADQUARTERS ELEMENTS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMERIC CODES.

ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE, CITE ANY FILES, SUCH AS 201 OR PROJECT FILES THAT ARE RELATED TO THE FILE COVERED BY THIS REQUEST. ITEM 10 MAY ALSO BE USED TO GIVE REASONS FOR THE ACTION BEING REQUESTED, TO IDENTIFY THE TYPE OF MATERIAL TO BE PLACED IN A FILE ON TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARKS.

ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGN ALL FILE ACTION REQUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMO ON ANY PROBLEMS THAT ARISE.

INFORMATION CONCERNING FILE

TYPE OF FILE

SUBJECT

PROJECT

2. COUNTRY NUMBER: 50

CATEGORY NUMBER: 6

SPECIFIC SUBJECT NUMBER: 122/2

3. FILE TITLE (SPECIFIC SUBJECT) (PROJECTS LIMITED TO 15 SPACES)

KDAFGHAN Support

4. ANALYSIS ACTION:

OPEN FILE

AMEND FILE TITLE

CLOSE FILE (INDICATE DISPOSITION):

OFF/OPEN

ACTION REQUIRED

RETAIN:

IP/ARD

6. REMARKS (FOR FIELD DISTRIBUTION)

DISPOSITION

DESTRUCTION RECOMMENDED THRU (DATE)

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY):

1244

8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK (LIST ACTION DESK FIRST):

50

FILES ACTION

HOLD IN CS FILES

RESTRICTED

UNRESTRICTED

PREPARE FOLDER AND SEND TO REQUESTER

CHARGE PERMANENTLY TO OFFICER & DESK

10. COMMENTS (INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

![stamp]

11. ENDORSEMENT

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O.

*Gloria Warner #630*

EFFECTIVE DATE

*1 March 1973*

12. COORDINATION

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH/DESK R. O. (WHEN APPLICABLE)

50

SECRET

13. RID APPROVAL

REQUEST APPROVED BY

*Charles M. Conners*

CODE (FILE) NUMBER

06

122/2

39

1-CS COPY

DAM 812 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS MFG 12-65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE OF CRYPTONYM CHANGE - 20/04/71

KOAFGAN

FORMER CRYPTONYM - LIONION

CRYPTONYM CHANGE AUTHORIZED BY - ARMSTRONG COMPONENT - PIO/AN
(RO OR RID SECTION CHIEF)

CABLE OR DOCUMENT REFERENCE (FROM ITEM 10 OF FORM 312) - HMMS-7138

N-O-T-I-C-E

THIS IS AN RID NOTICE OF A CHANGE IN FILE.

TITLE CRYPTONYM CAUSED BY COMPROMISE. IT

IS TO BE PLACED IN THE FILE INDICATED AND
TO REMAIN THEREIN AS A PERMANENT OFFICIAL
CS RECORD.

S-E-C-R-E-T

FILE IN - 050-006-122/02


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

ABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PLONUT NOTIFIED ASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
GROUP 1
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ROUTING AND OR INITIALS SEEN B

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT
TSD-FOO
FILE. VR

SECRET 141955Z MAR 72 CITE MEXICO CITY 19236

DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR
AQUATIC KDAFGHAN KDFACTOR

REF A. HMMA-41502

B. PANTECH 18798 (IN 559398)

1. PLS PROCURE TWO 1000 MM CATADIOPTRIC LENSES
   WITH CAMERAS AS REQUESTED REF A.

2. FOR PANTECH: NOT NECESSARY PROCURE SPOTMATICS
   UNLESS ADVISED DIFFERENTLY BY DIRTECH. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Chier, NMOSPICS

Chief, Di vision; Chief, WOACAR

Chief, or Station, Mezico City

COMMED PER

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

C. ATTIC MARGIAN IDFACTOR

Reference: ESXICO CITY 15654

1. Two of the Station photographie cameras (.. OIAFACTOR and Balstone and . Nitoly trees.) have been used the .. ch and t ca for cauera ecobinaci . operation provide photowrohic operations, targets and new w equipment is required to a prove che photographie quality and increase the capability for larger coverage during the day when light conditions are poor.

2. The Dalseo cope in the 1000 len of 1000 L will not fit into space sithost eyepiece cud A full Iength tom is located in a very scall room. (IDARCHAN-1) (CD There fore a compact catadioptric lens concrete wall partition. taking out a telephoto is required for tho project.

3. The Dalseope in the -2P should also be replaced paragraph 2. by the same type of lens systema mentioned Balscape now is use is operated from the top of a table where 10 10 ACTON-2 must also stand to take picture over a high wall in the foreground. The system must be remov oved from the table when not in use and stored in a locked foor lockor or. fer these reasons the lens and camera should be light and corpact to facilitate their use and storage.

4. As can be seen from paragraphs two and thrce a light weight compact lens system is desired for both projects and the Station

Distribution:
2 - CAMKSPICE
2 - C/OACRE

-continued

ES COPY
LACER
MA-1,502

SECRET

13 January 1979

50-6-18


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONTRIBUTION OF

So anxious to replace the old units. The operators are starting to climb the walls after a very yeam of performing through the tairscope. A verbal requent hand back procured to i lata to obtain in two 1000 mm catadielectric optical systems with cameras. Please sudire warm those units can be obtained and the sorting procedures. CASSA has started the action on at least one of these systems through KOVICE.

Charles F. BROWN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WOARE

INFO. Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, MKSPICE

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN
Renewal of Passports for KDAFGHAN-1 and KDAFGHAN-2

Reference: HMMW-17955, 11 June 1970

The WOACRE-issued Cuban passports for Subjects have expired. It is requested that new passports be prepared for them. According to KDAFGHAN-1, the new passports should carry the same numbers as the old passports. The passports, and current photographs of Subjects, are being forwarded under separate cover. It is requested that the old passports be returned.

![signature of Elsie I. SCALETTI]

Elsie I. SCALETTI

Attachment:

As stated u/s/c

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Chief, WOACRE (w/att. u/s/c)

1 - Chief, WHD (w/o/att)

1 - Chief, MKSPICE (w/o/att)


| CROSS REFERENCE TO | DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | DATE            |
| ------------------ | -------------------------- | --------------- |
|                    | HMMA - 41480               | 7 January 1972  |
| CLASSIFICATION     |                            | MOS FILE NUMBER |
| SECRET             |                            | 201-305604      |
|                    |                            | FFNP-7,094      |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION ASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES

SECRET
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY  SLOTTED

DISSEM OV
ACTION UNIT
WH8
PER.
FILE, VR L065 4
ACTION NO
125
SECRET 091856Z NOV 71 CITE MEXICO CITY 18173 9 Νου ΙΝ 465588

DIRECTOR

ADMIN LOGS KDAFGHAN

1. REQUEST OBTAIN AND POUCH TO STATION ON PRIORITY BASIS FOR KDAFGHAN ONE EACH: APRON, CLOTH, F/WW

PAKONOMY PRINT DRYER MODEL 13-S.N.-5932. MFR: PAKO CORPORATION, MINNEAPOLIS 40, MINN.

2. REQN 559-19-72 APPLIES. GP-1

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ACTION UNIT FILE, VR IP/AN WH & DOP FI

SECRET 211720Z OCT CITE MEXICO CITY 18014 (ROSTEDT ACTING)
DIRTECH INFO DIRECTOR, PANTECH
AQUATIC/KDAFGHAN

2: Oct 1.451868

1. KDAFGHAN-1 HAS FOR YEARS USED BALSCOPE LENS WITH 20 X EYEPIECE FOR ID PHOTOGRAPHY OF VISITORS AND EMPLOYEES ENTERING KDACOUSTIC. TO IMPROVE QUALITY PHOTOGRAPHY AND INCREASE CAPABILITY DURING EVENING HOURS WHEN LIGHTING POOR STATION PREFERS A PHOTOGRAPHICALLY CORRECTED 1000 MM TELEPHOTE LENS FOR PROJECT. PLS ADVISE AVAILABILITY OF ABOVE LENS FROM WOACRE STOCK. IF PROJECT TO BE CHARGED FOR LENS NOTIFY STATION.

2. MKSPICE DOES NOT HAVE THIS TYPE LENS IN STOCK. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

CABLE SECALTARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

SECRET 222053Z OCT 70 CITE MEXICO CITY 4653

DIRTECH INFO PANTECH, DIRECTOR

RYBAT AQUATIC

REF: DIRTECH 0131 (10189977)

1. FOLLOWING IS A LIST OF EQUIPMENT USED IN PROJECTS (ONE EACH OF ITEMS LISTED):

A. LILYRIC:

TELESCOPE, BALSCOPE BAUSCH AND LOMB.;

CAMERA, SP, 35 NM, EXAKTA W/O LENS;

CAMERA, PENTAX MDL H3V;

B. LICALAI:

TELESCOPE, S-E, BAUSCH AND LOMB., BALSCOPE;

CAMERA, SP, 35 NM, EXAKTA, WO/LENS;

C. LIONION:

BINOCULARS, 10250, TASCO, JAP MDL;

TELESCOPE, BAUSCH AND LOMB BALSCOPE SR.;

CAMERA, PENTAX 35 MM;

DRIER, PHOTO PAKONOMY MDL 13.;

ENLARGER, LEITZ WEIZLER FOCOMAT IC;

MOTOROLA HANDIE-TALKIE FM RADIOPHONE;

SECRET

FILE: LIONION SUP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

SECRET
(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

BY:

DISSEM BY PER

ACTION UNIT FILE, VR

ACTION NO.

PAGE 2 MEXICO CITY 4653 SECRET

MOTOROLA RADIOPHONE;

CAMERA, RETINA;

LENS, RETINA 50MM;

LENS, RETINA 35MM;

LENS, RETNA 80MM.

50-6-32/2.

2. FILE: FRATAENEM GP-1

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
XXX
NO INDEXING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

FROM
Acting Chief of Station, Mexico City
MICROFILM

SUBJECT
Transmittal of Document Receipt for LIONION Passports

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

Reference: HMMN - 17955, 11 June 1970.

Forwarded under separate cover is the document receipt for the LIONION passports.


for/Horace E. PRALLETT

Attachment:
document receipt (u/s/c)  7 July 1970

Distribution:
Orig. and 2 - Chief, WILD (w/att, u/s/c)

CS COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMN - 39115
DATE
26 June 1970
CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER
SECRET
50-6-122/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

XX

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK

CAN JUDGE INDEXING

INFO.

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

MICROFILM

SUBJECT
PBRUMEN LIONION TECHS/Request for Renewal of PBRUMEN Passports
for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

Action Required: Renew passports and return

Reference : HMMW - 13,672, 3 June 1965

1. Forwarded under separate cover in true name pouch are the WOACRE PBRUMEN passports for LIONION-1 and LIONION-2, issued by Reference. These passports have expired, and the Station understands that they can be renewed for another period. Due to the sensitivity of the LIONION operation, Subjects cannot obtain regular PBRUMEN documentation locally, and must have them in order to leave Mexico and return.

2. It is requested that WOACRE revalidate the passports and return them to the Station for re-issuance to Subjects.

![signature of person named Probert]

for/John A. PROBERT

7 May 70

Distribution:

Orig. and 2 - Chief, WHD

![illegible marks]

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

DATE

HMMA - 38843

27 April 1970

CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER

SECRET

/50-6-122/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# DISPATCH

SECRET

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: CLIGNION/Impulse Camera Film

Action Required: See below

References: A. HMMA-33841, 17 January 1968
B. UFGT-21267, 12 February 1968
C. UFGT-21342, 22 February 1968

1. In view of references A and B and the small cost involved in operating the impulse camera Headquarters will continue to process this film.

2. Request JMWAVE pouch the film cited in reference C to Headquarters for processing.

Ronald L. PERRODIN

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - COS, Mexico City
1 - COS, JMWAVE

***

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMW-16194

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: 1 March 1968

FILE NUMBER: 50-6-122/1

OFFICE: WH/1

TYPIST: RC

EXT: 6954

COORDINATING OFFICER'S NAME:

OFFICE SYMBOL: WH/COG

DATE: 3/5/68

RELEASING OFFICER'S SIGNATURE: W. J. Kaufman


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# AUDIT Report

November 1963, and recommended that the matter be investigated. The current audit disclosed that little or no action has been taken on this matter.

Recommendation: We recommend that the Station determine whether FEBAPANE uses WOFIRM for 1963 tax - company profits, and notify FEBAPANE of the results of the investigation.

Warehouse Rent in Excess of Lease No.
Adequately Documented

The most recent lease for the LIONIGH safehouse (MEXI-62) was dated in 1962 and provides for monthly rental payments of VN $50. Since then the rental payments have been increased to VN $550 per month, but the lease has not been changed because in accordance with local custom the landlord is reluctant to enter into a new lease due to the taxes involved and the income tax implications.

Recommendation: We recommend that a memorandum for the record showing the revised rental be prepared and approved by the Chief of Station or other designated Station Officer.

Revision of Education Allowance Requires Adjustment of Amounts Paid

Education allowances for Mexico City were revised for poor grades during the current analysis visit, the Station did not retroactively adjust for reimbursements already paid as required by section 276 a of the CIA-sponsored regulations.

Recommendation: We recommend that education allowances paid for in current analysis was recomputed and adjusted to the revised allowance.

Proceeds of Property Sale not Recorded on Finance Records

In our review of property transactions, we noted two instances (Vouchers 400 and 402) where accountability was dropped because, according to the property voucher, the property

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

Culef of Station, Kexico City
Attn: Walter W. CORNBURY
Chlef of Station, Panama City

Chief, FOACRE

AQUATIC/LIONION
Technical Inforaation

Reference: AMA 31767 dated 11 April 1967

1. LIONION 1 photographic results continue to be satisfactory
   for all concerned. It is therefore advisable that no changes in
   proceduro be made at this time.

2. It is apparent that LIONION I releyed the incorrect devel-
   oping formula for the pulso camera fils. Perhaps this error is due to
   bis inactivity in processing such film for over a year. Since the
   conception of this operation all pulse camera film has been developed
   in Microdol X. On the other hand, Tri X film used in the LIONION 2
   operation(Pentax camera and, Balscope) has traditionally been devel-
   oped in Acufine.

3. All pulse camera film is processed at leadquarters by an
   automatic Huston system. Time and temperature information which the
   lab uses would be of little value to your development procedure. The
   results of your recent test indicate that it should be satisfactory
   for an occasional check on the equipment.

4. The difference between Plus X Negative and Plus X Pua file
   is worth only one half "f" stop, which should cause no problem if you
   decide to use the latter.

Distribution:
2 - COS/Mexico City
1 - COS/Panama City

Group 1 Excluded from
automatic downgrading
and declassification

Albert J. LASCOFF

![signature]

KMNS 5358

25 April 1967

SECRET

TSD/POB RWM ery 2378

1 - TSD/Reg
1 - WH/1
1 - FU/2
1 - TSD/TOPS
2 POB files

WH/1 25 Apr Mr. Stewart by phone x6955

WH/2 " Mr. Hidalgo " x5421

TSD/TOPS " Mr. Roming in draft

TSD/COP

QUENTIN C. JOINSON


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

olic. Polly Pike/emo
Wll/Logistics
6282
4 April 1967

CABLE SECRETARIA DISSEMINATION

WH-8 RID COPY

MISTAGE FO
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

DEDEX DESTROY RETURN TO.

NO INOX PILE IN CE PILS NO.

DEPON FILE •LOGS 4, TSD-6

SECRET

MEXICO CITY
LIONION
REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 0912 (IN 34374)*

PX PAN-417 FILM ASA 125 CAN BE USED BY CLOSING DONN CAMERA LENS ONE
HALE F-STOP SMALLER OPENING. ALTERATION TO HOSY PROCESSING NOT NECESSARY.
REONX 559-59-67 WILL FURNISH ASA 80, PXN-417 A NON-STOCKED FILM. FYI,
STOCK NUMBER 6750-H03-0513 IS FOR PX PAN-417 ASA 125. DO NOT RE-ORDER
PXN-417 FILM BY THIS STOCK NUMBER.

END OF MESSAGE

*WH/COMMENT: LIONION Pulse Camera has been using PXN-417 film ASA 80,
but supply just received is PX Pan 417 ASA 125.

Telecoord:
TSD/FOB, Dick Thayer
OL/SD/CCDB, Catherine Van Combos
NH/1

SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WILD

R.L. KING
C/WH/LOG

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

INDEX ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
1-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 21
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

2564
ACTION
WH 8 ☑ RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ FUSED
INFO FILE VR TSDG, DOGSY,

SECRET 311/SOL CITE MEXICO CITY 0912

DIRECTOR.

LIONION TECHS

REF A MEXICO CITY 0681 (,N 21452) 31 MAR 67034374

B RQN NO 559-59-67

LIONION PULSE CAMERA HAS BEEN USING PXN-417 FILM

ASAS4. SUPPLY JUST RECEIVED IS PX PAN 417 ASA 125. IF LATTER USED WITH SAME SETTING IN LIONION CAN HQS COMPENSATE IN DEVELOPMENT? IF NOT PLEASE MONITOR REF (B) AND EXPEDITE SHIPMENT OF PROPER FILM.

SECRET

BT

![SECRET signature]

NNNN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WOACRE Attn: Geoffrey K. BLOXALD

INFO: Chief, WH; COS, Panama City (Clement BROCK)

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: AQUATIC/LIONION Pulse Camera

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: Action: See paragraph 5.

1. The LIONION Pulse Camera has been working for well over a year with no major technical problem. A few months ago the 100 foot film magazine had to be repaired because the supply spindles had tightened and put an excessive strain on the motor.

2. More recently, the battery supply had dropped to about 22.5 volts or so causing erratic operation. The sensor relay between the VLS-2 and the camera suffered the most because of chattering and consequently arcing between the points.

3. To prevent failures of this type in the future, Raymond L. BARCENAS is making a small battery charger at a nominal cost that can be floated across the batteries keeping them fully charged. We are doing it this way rather than ordering a DC power supply because it is less expensive than a commercial model and will not be bothered by house current interruptions or fluctuations. If however, WOACRE/PB foresees any problems by doing it this way, please inform us.

4. On a recent visit to LIONION and a check of the equipment, it was found that the lens of his FOCOMAT IC enlarger has a fungus like smudge between the elements. We cannot detect any degradation in print quality but would like to have a new one in case this is a fungus and it gets worse.

5. In summation it is requested that WOACRE/PB provide the following to Mexico City, charge 7135-2403.

a. Sensor Relay believed to be a Patter-Bromfield 5A5089 but please check;

b. Comments on the power supply;

c. Lens for a Leitz FOCOMAT IC.

Distribution:

WOACRE
WH
1 - Panama

CS COPY Willard C. CURTIS

HΜΜΑ-31294

SECRET

7 February 1967

50-6-122/2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, KURIOT Attn: Peter T. SWINEHART

INFO:
Chief, WH Division

FROM:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:
AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/LIONION -- Transmittal of 35mm Pulse Camera

ACTION REQUIRED - REFERENCES:
Reference: MEXI-3960

1.  The attachment contains the defective 35mm Pulse Camera previously reported in referenced cable. Very little additional information can be supplied, concerning this mechanical failure, other than that reported in the reference. This particular camera was installed on 16 June 1965 and operated normally from that date until the afternoon of 28 June, at which time it began to continually blow fuses. Hugh T. FRANCOTTE entered the LIONION photographic basehouse that night, and when it was found that the problem could not be corrected on the scene, the camera was removed and taken to MKCHARITY for further troubleshooting. It was finally discovered that the shutter motor was malfunctioning and partially burned-out. Joseph M. RESCIGNO stated that since there was a definite "short" in the motor, this would cause the camera fuses to constantly blow.

2.  Also Included in the attachment are two (2), one hundred foot capacity, film magazines. Both of these magazines are faulty, causing the film to jam. They were both in use with the previous Pulse Camera which became inoperative during late May and was forwarded to KURIOT Headquarters for repair. FRANCOTTE had two (2) new magazines in stock, and they were issued to LIONION/1 for use with the camera presently being returned for repair or replacement.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
Camera
Film magazines

Distribution:.
2 - KURIOT, w/atts
1 - WH, w/o atts


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# DISPATCH

SECRET

COS, Mexico City ATTN: Hugh T. FRANCOTTE and ATTN: Lawrence F. BARTER

Chief KURIOT
AQUATIC

Passports for LIONION -1 and 2. Case 5670, 5670-A

ACTION REQUIRED: Paras 2, 3

REF: HMMA-26017, 4 May 1965

1. New passports were issued for LIONION -1 and for LIONION -2 in accordance with your request. These documents as well as the 2 old passports are being sent to you in true name pouch.

2. The documents have a validity period of 5 years from date of issue; however, please return them to KURIOT after the passports have served their purpose. Please sign one copy of the document receipt form accompanying the documents.

3. When the LIONIONS -1 and 2 have received their immigration papers, please try to send the original documents to KURIOT for a brief examination. If they cannot be sent, KURIOT would like to have color-annotated photo-copies of them,

LEON T. CISSEL

ATTACHMENT: 1 envl.

1. Documents, U/S/C/T/N/P

DISTRIBUTION:

3 - COS, Mexico City, w/att

19 - 137 - 415

27 May 1965

1 - TSD/REG

2 - WH/1

1 - Case 5670

1 - Case 5670-A

1 - AP/4 Files

1 - AB/4 Chrono

1 - RID/AN

HMMW-13,672 PRIORITY

SECRET

50 - 6 - 123/2

50 - 6 - 122/2

TSD/AB/4 Wesley Parcells 3284

Mr. Spera, by Phone X-4507

C/TSD/OA ROBERT BUSSEY

![abstract]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

INDEX:
YES NO
CLASSIF TO FILE NO.
FILE-RICO RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM:
MEXICO CITY

ACTION:
TSD6 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY
UNIT: TSD
TIME: 1336

INFO FILE: VR, WH 7, FL, WH/C8

SECRET 291651Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE MEXI 3960
29JUN01364
AQUATIC PERUMEN LIONION

PULSE CAMERA BEGAN CONTINUALLY BLOWING FUSES AFTERNOON 28 JUNE.
FRANCOTTE PERFORMED BASIC CHECKS THAT NIGHT AND REMOVED CAMERA FOR
FURTHER TROUBLE SHOOTING MKCHARITY. TROUBLE BELIEVED TO BE CENTERED
AROUND DEFECTIVE SHUTTER MOTOR. MOTOR CHECKED MKCHARITY AND FOUND
PARTIALLY BURNED OUT. REPAIRS CANNOT BE MADE MEXI. REQUEST REPLACEMENT
CAMERA SOONEST. MALFUNCTIONING UNIT TO BE POUCHED HOS: JULY.
TEMPORARY PHOTOGRAPHIC SURVEILLANCE EQUIPMENT INSTALLED LIONTON BASE.
HOUSE MORNING 29 JUNE.

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

INDERE YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIC RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TOTAL COPIES 29

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSONUNIT NOTIFIED

FROM
MEXICO CITY

ACTION

RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED NOTTED TUBED

TSDG

FILER, WH/C8, CI, SI/OFS, FI, FI/INTZ WH7.


S E C R E T 171815Z

DIR CITE MEXI 3829

AQUATIC PBRUNEN LIONION

17 JUN 65 IN 92775

REF TM 593898, 8 JUNE 1955.

PULSE CAMERA CABLES FORWARDED VIA REF, RECD 16 JUNE. CAMERA
INSTALLED AND TESTED SAME NIGHT AND IS OPERATING SATISFACTORILY.

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION
MARKED FOR INDEXING

XX NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

TO
Chief, KURIOT
Chief, WH Division
INFO.
Chief of Station, JMWAVE
FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

DOC. MICRO-SER.
NOV 9 1973
MICROFILMED

SUBJECT
AQUATIC/PBRUMEN/Issuance of LIONION Passports
ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES
References: (A) MEXI 3234, 28 April 1965
(B) DIR 06231, 1 May 1965

1. Attached (USC) are the expired genuine PBRUMEN passports of LIONION-1 and LIONION-2 together with two photo- graphs and five signature specimens of each agent.

2. It is requested that new PBRUMEN passports be prepared by KURIOT and pouched to the Station as soon as possible.

3. The assumption of reference B that passports obtained at the PBRUMEN Embassy in Mexico City are actually issued in the PBRUMEN Capitol City is correct.

4. The old passports should be returned to the Station as the Mexican inmigration visas appearing of pages 11 and 19 of the LIONION and LIONION-2 passports, respectively, must be in the possession of the Subjects until they are granted their final immigration documents.

Attachment:
As stated - (USC)

Distribution:
2 - C/KURIOT w/att (USC)
1 - C/WHD w/o/att
1 - COS, JMWAVE w/o/att
3 - Files

DOC FORWARDED W/O S/C
BY RID/AN

CS COPY

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-26017

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE
4 May 1965
HQS FILE NUMBER
50-6-122/2

> [Figure: Table describing 'TEAU PROSINAD', with categories like 'ABSTRACT', and 'F.I.N.'.]

continued

> [Figure: A note written by hand saying 'Remove from Project 1 DAFGHAN CS Classifications JOH # 23-4-77 Rox #24 Fold:2']

> [Figure: Text that say 'TSD/18 Case No 5670-A']

> [Figure: Logo with text 'GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification']


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMA-26017

5. The Station is investigating through LICRAFT-1 the passport issuing service in the Miami area, as mentioned in reference cables, and will forward details in separate correspondent. Examples of Miami-issued passports will be made available for Headquarters perusal.

6. The Station wishes to express its appreciation to KURIOT for prompt action in response to reference A.

Lawrence F. Babbitt
for. Willard C. CURTIS

FORM
3-60
1301
53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
PAGE NO
2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

14-00000

INDEX

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 50-6-122/2
FILE NO. D 19-137-415
TO BRANCH
DISATCH SIG T.C. Kime
FROM MEXICO CITY
ACTION 75DC

INFO VR. FILE DDP, WN/C8, WH7, CI/OPS, FL/RA

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

DOC. MICRO, SER.
NOV 9 1973
MICROFILMED

CDIR WAVE CITE MEXI 3234

PAQUATIC TYPIC LIONION

1. FBRUMEN ORDINARY PASSPORTS FOR LIONIONS 1 AND 2 HAVE EXPIRED. SUBJS CANNOT TRAVEL FROM MEXI BECAUSE MEXI GOVERNMENT WILL NOT ISSUE REENTRY PERMIT IN EXPIRED PASSPORT, PSPRIME GOVT WILL NOT ISSUE VISA IN ABSENCE MEXI REENTRY PERMIT. MEXI GOVT STANDS PAT EXPLAINING, RIGHTLY, THAT PBRUMEN EMB WILL ISSUE NEW PASSPORT TO ANY PBRUMEN CITIZEN REGARDLESS OF POLITICIAL

LEARNINGS HENCE LIONIONS MUST GET NEW PASSPORTS.

2. FOR REASONS OPERATIONAL SECURITY LIONIONS CANNOT VISIT EMB FOR NEW PASSPORTS SINCE THEY KNOWN BY SIGHT TO EMB PERSONNEL AS MEXICAN NEIGHBORS. THIS SITUATION RESULTED IN COMPLICATED AND EXPENSIVE CXO ESCORTED "BLACK" BORDER CORSSINGS BY LIONIONS LAST YEAR WHEN THEY VISITED RELATIVES IN PBPRIME.

3. CAN HQS OR JMWAVE ISSUE NEW PBRUMEN PASSPORTS FOR BOTH AGENTS? PLS CABLE PROCEEDURE, MEXI PREPARED POUCH OLD PASSPORTS AND SPARE PHOTOS. LIONIONS WISH TRAVEL SOON.

4. FYI JMWAVE: LICRAFT-1 RECENTLY PURCHASED TWO EXCELLENT NEW PBRUMEN PASSPORTS IN JMWAVE AREAFOS SONS, AT COST 75 DOLLARS

D 19-137-415

Remove from ProjectKDAFGHANI
CS Classification: 50-6-122/2
JC8 #73-442/19
Box: 24 Fold: 2

FORM 1-64 1389

TSDIG


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

EACH. IF YAVE THIS BUSINESS, BELIEVE STA CAN GET
THEM FROM LICRAFT

SECRET

CFN PLEAS 4-1 RE ACTION
INDICATOR

EORFI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, KURIOT
Attn: Peter T. SWINEHART

INFO.
Chief, WH Division.

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
AQUATIC/Operational -- Availability of the Nikon Television System

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. At the time of Hugh T. FRANCOTTE's departure from Headquarters, KURIOT had recently beyun an extensive evaluation of the Nikon closed circuit television system. If this particular system is now considered "operational", FRANCOTTE wishes to be so advised, as there may he a possible application for it in support of an operation at the Mexico City Station. Lawrence F. BARKER was recently briefed by FRANCOTTE on the Nikon system, and is now interested in obtaining additional facts concerning it. BARKER, who is responsible for the LIONION Project, foresees a possibility for its use in the LIONION photographic basehouse..

2. It was thought that perhaps the system could be further "operationally tested" at this baschouse, and at the same time, the Station could examine the possibility of a permanent Installation. Presently, LIONION/1 is utilizing a Dalscope and Pentax camera for obtaining photographic coverage of the entrance to the PBRUMEN Embassy. Provided the television camera could be equipped with a telephoto lens of about the same focal length as the combination of the Balscope and 20X eyepiece, this system might be a suitable substitute for the equipment now In service.

3. It is requested that the Mexico City Station be advised If the Nikon television system is available, and Headquarters thoughts concerning the testing of It at the LIONION basehouse.

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:

2 - KURIOT

1 - WH


CS COPY FILED IN 50-6-122/2-

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUNSER
DATE
HMMA-25981
29 April 1965
CLASSIFICATION
HGS FILE NUMBER
SECRET
50-6-122/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

UNIT : TCD/FCB
EXT : 2975
DATE : 25 Sept 64

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: WHY CT, CE/OPS, FI, VN

TO PRITY MEXI INFO
AQUATIC LIONION

CITE DIR 52651

REF MEXI 0982 (IN 79741)*

1. PULSE CAMERAS BEING MODIFIED AND RECONDITIONED BY CONTRACTOR TO CORRECT FAULTS SURFACED DURING LIONION OP.
   AVAILABILITY FIRST CAMERA THREE WEEKS PROVIDING NO UNFORESEEN DIFFICULTIES CCCUR.

2. IF PRESENT CAMERA INOPERABLE SUGGEST RETURN TO ROBOT AND VLS-2 OR K-100 WITH BURST BRACKET AND VLS-2 FOR INTERIM OPERATIONAL COVERAGE.

3. A SECOND CAMERA WILL BE SENT MEXI AS SOON AS RECONDITIONING COMPLETED FOR USE STANDBY.

- END OF MESSAGE -

TSD/COMMENT: *LIONION pulse camera malfunctioning.
Request Hq forward replacement.

J/1/Mexico Miss Bustos by phone x4523

Er. Erickson in draft

ROBERT DESSEY
C/TSD/OA


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)