14-00000
104-10169-10139
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992


SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO
2008-14304, 31 January 1968

IDENTITY & to Mr. James Brem, a security officer on SDY
from Headquarters.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT:

FROM:

| TO. (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | RECEIVED | FORWARDED | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)                     |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------ | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. AO/S2                                             |      |                    |          | 14/1/62   | 3-5: Please note lead pair 1 concerning missing: from                                                                      |
| 2. SE/Deop                                           |      |                    | 2/5/6/15 |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 3. Aw/rop                                            |      |                    | 15/6/62  |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 4. C/SA/Cl                                           |      |                    | 15/7/62  |           | BENTHAM: Is this statement about Berlin true?                                                                              |
| 5. ACSR/CI/P                                         |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 6.                                                   |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 7. DC/SR                                             |      |                    |          | MAR 1962  | 5-6: It is not, and I have so informed Q.  5-5: I suggest right appreciate a word from you, possibly to the effect that we |
| 8.                                                   |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 9.                                                   |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 10.                                                  |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 11. ESR/CI                                           |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 12.                                                  |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 13.                                                  |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 14.                                                  |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |
| 15.                                                  |      |                    |          |           |                                                                                                                            |

![logo of RYBAT]
RYBAT: how day were doing a good job but are ever more impressed by the details.

[EGOT-14004]
31 Jan 62

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT:

FROM:

NO. EGOT-14004

DATE: 31 Jan 62

|     | TO. (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom it comes. Draw a line across column after each comment)                                                               |
| --- | ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.  | AO/S2                                                |               | 14/2/62        | SO                 | 3-5: Please note last para 1 concerning memo from Bentham. Is this statement about Berlin true?                                                                       |
| 2.  | SR/REOP                                              |               | 2/5/62         |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 3.  | RE/ROP                                               |               | 15 Feb 62      |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 4.  | C/SA/CI                                              | 18 Feb        | 23Feb          |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 5.  | ACSR/CI/P                                            |               |                |                    | 5-6: It is not, and I have so informed Q.                                                                                                                             |
| 6.  | DC/SR                                                |               | MAR 8 1962     |                    | 5ad: I suggest COS might appreciate a word from you, possibly to the effect that we RYBAT knew they were doing a good job but are even more impressed by the details. |
| 11. | asr/er                                               |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 12. |                                                      |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 13. |                                                      |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 14. |                                                      |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |
| 15. |                                                      |               |                |                    |                                                                                                                                                                       |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, EE (ATTN: Matthew L. CARSON)
Chief, SH (ATTN: Therman O. CUSICK)
Chief, EE (ATTN: Leopard P. SACKETT)

FROM Chief of Station, Germany

SUBJECT ADMINISTRATIVE Handling of a Soviet Defecter

ACTION REQUIRED See below.

1. I suggest that the story of ABLADLE, from the moment he walked into the home of Martia A. HOODINE until he was safely under Alhaka custody in the United States, deserves compiling, analysis, and publication in the form of an Operational Aid. It richly illustrates the sany probless mich ust and can be surmounted, and could be highly instructive to Chiefs of Station in all countries where the next Soviet defcator aight appear.

2. Here is the Frankfurt contribution (written at my request) to such a compilations a eliffhanger from start to finion, but also a comentary on the many types of problems which can arise, and the foot tint it takes hard work and skillful improvisation to solve them, it was a cliffhanger both before and after the Frankfurt chapter (I nominate HOUDING for a modal for his part) and ought to sake excellent reading.

3. The handling of defectors obviously is not a new responsibility to the German Station. The (CARZONE facility which existe primarily for the receipt, establishcent of bona fides, deoriefing, and resettlesent of defectors bas existed here for the last decade. Hor in the movement by black evacuation-of-operational personnel a unique task for us to perform. We have accomplished this many times by use of our own. Integrated DUNIT facility and also by the furnioning of alعما documentation to the person of interest and accomplishing the transport via scheduled NATS flights. The significant points which made the ARLADLE case unique may never again in their entirety be duplicated but in part they amy well be, and therefore should be enumerated:

a. A Soviet diplomat, and noæber of the HIS, stationed in a non-Satellite but politically sensitive country, whion at the time of AELADIE's defection was under considerable Soviet pressure.

b. The fact that the actual airowatepees concerning hit ant of defection were such that an immediate decision by the on the scene and to be made to take advantage of the opportunity.

c. The fact that little alternative could be given, under the facts as described in (a) above, except to believe the defector's statements and coquiesce in his demands, i.e., he possessed information of a significant and perishable nature and would disclose it completely only upon arrival in the United States.

d. The fact that once the commitments in (c) above were made every reasonable effort had to be made to accommodate the defector's demand.

e. In order to accomplish all this an untried method of evacuation, 1.e., black ovaouation via commercial aircraft had to be accomplished in order to successfully proceed with the undertaking.

4. A retrospective analysis as to how this case commenced, and the unique factors connected with it as muncrated above, lead me to suggest for Headquarters study what I refer to as "rindings" and "areas of study," that I have leteled as Frindings" in effect represent facts which, if not present, quite probably would have deprived us in Germany of participating successfully in the movement of the ARIADIS family. The "areas of study," on the other hand, represent either anseer-able questions or matters in areas wherein operational discussions may well take place to soo if some type of school-book solution can be devised.

5. I will elaborate below, where appropriate, on some of these "findings" but will first record thems


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## 33 ChBT RYBA?

### Бл-10, Al Jamary 12

8.  The isdom Maintaining in the European area at least one field installation having assigned to it personnel representing we any competencies necessary in the intelligence weio-taking as been recu.firmed.

9.  The lacon of attaining appropriate security clearances, and having Stations brief and wase sitting of at least an Ais contact, the resident senior United States citizen porsxanel of United States flag air carriers operating itain any Station's area.

c. The fallacy of depending on marginal or obsolescent equipment to accomplish sensitive tasks of high priority. we here refer to 17-year C- craft,

d. A realization that a ratio exists between the number of people unde avare of a given undertaking in rolation to the obstacles encountered in success- fully accomp.isning trat undertaking.

6. A few words of elaboration are in order on the four prancasing points. Because the initial endeavor at black evacuation by Klintlih aircraft aborted, we were given an opportunity to see with great clarity the application of these points. If the attempt to evacuate by Alghk-assigned aircraft had been successful, then knowledge of the defection could nave been held to approximately als staff and assigned military personnel. Because that endeavor was unsuccessful, at least nine additimal staff and axlitary personnel.. bocamo-generally or specifically aware of the aatter, plus the Consul General and one of his senior officers. Additionally one private United States citizen, the senior Pan American official in Frankfurt, became very much aware of this sensitive case. This increase in the number of individuale come about because of an immediate noed late in the evening of Saturday, 16 December, to vee two to scatters to assist in the safenousing function, a total of six AUTOPAZ staffers (documentation, graphics, photographie) to prepare and leave frawulent and alles passpurta, and an assigned enlisted man to act as a safehouse guard. The Consulate Jeneral and to affix visas to the fraudulent passports. The most erucial individual involved, however, was the Pan American official wro toà certain degree put his position in Jeopardy by being as cooperative on the actter va he was without previously having clearod and briefed this official. (the counter- part in Tha is also so cleared and briefed) the sole undertaking would have been precluded. It would have been impossible to accomplish departure without documente- tion on a commercial aircraft without the connivance of the commercial airline Involved. Indeed with auan cunnivance it was difficult and risky enough. Finally, the point concerning chaolcscent equipment speaks for itself. licadquarters is fully aware of the feelings of this Station concerning the inadequacy for our purposes of assigned aircraft. Suffice it to say that when defectors apparently of signifi- cant value refuse te ride such aircraft atter merita thorough study.

7. The atter of "areas of stwiy" appears to us to encompass at least the fellering:

a. Average tise differences in transmitting high prec dance electrical gommieations between and son representative groupitato The German Station is extremely fortunate in naving Kh-20 circuite ita coad- quartere. It affords us a facility for instantaneous communication. se oan make certain rough estisates as to how long it might take appropriate Head- quarters officiala to answer our queries and we can then approxlants the arrival time of answers to high precedence traffic. Oliver Statiune, however, do not have KW-26 equipment, all do not have the same type of cryptological equipment, and there is a different pattern as to the type of circuitry, 1.0.. direat leased lines, tux, straight somercial servics, etc. Va believe there le merit in the appropriate Headquarters unit endeavoring to group geograph- Joally Statione and then based on the type of communications and cryptologioni equipment and the channel of transmission to come up with predictions au to the average length of time the transmission of a priority or operational iamediato cable would take between and among the various representative groupinga. In the case under study, witch represented a rather fast-breaking eltuation, it was not possible for us to velimete the fencin of time it took to transmit an operatical insediate cable between Stofinora and Frankfurt. Σε πολλά λαve been of value to ve to have had core Tac thie miter.

D. Coordinating between 0.8. Air Attauhon and Cus. he believe it would be worthwhile to request each Chief of Station in a location where the Air


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET
RYBAT

EUKT-14004, 31 January 1962

Force or Navy has an assigned attache plane to establish procedures whereby the Air or Naval Attache will advise COS of any absence of the attache plane, the point of designation of the aircraft, and the duration of the absence. There have been previous defections where attache planes were used on the initial vehicle of black evacuation. In the evacuation plan of Stockholm for ABLADLE they informed us by cable that they proposal to use the attache plane. We are of the opinion that when the statement was ande Stockhormade the assumption the plane was izmediately available. As was later discovered by us the particular plane in question was at biesbaden and not not Stockholm. This, however, was some six hours after Stein stated its intent to use that aircraft. While in this particular case matters eventually worked out successfully the story might be otherwise in a different set of facts.

e. Priority furnishing of traces. When a Station is alerted to a request to render operational support to the novecent of a defector and simultaneously answers a request in the negative if it can furnish traces, the following procedure is worthy of study. If Headquarters pussesses, and time permits, wa believe it worthwhile to forward an imediate summary to the Station rendering support if the background of the devoter is much that it would be a matter of local interest. This would have been the case in ARLADIR. As subsequent head-quarters dobriefing developed (and we assumed it would have sen disclosed in Headquarters traces) ALIADLE had previously boen stationed in Berlin. Had such facts been known here, and nad time allowed, certain debriefing on the Berlin period designed to elicit any matter of inmediate concern could have been under-taken.


JOEL. D. BENTHAN

Attachment
Ramo dated 18 Dec 1961 h
Identities uno/top

Distribution
2-v/atta
A-SR w/atts
1-ME w/asto


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

TO EGOT-14004, 31 Jan 1962

18 December 1961

MEMORANDUM FOR: The Record

SUBJECT:
Handling at German Station 16 and 17 December of
Soviet Defector from Russian Embassy at Helsinki

1.  This memorandum is designed to record, soon after the event, all facts pertaining to the handling within the German Station of the evacuation of a Soviet Vice Counsel (and member of the RIS) from the Russian Embassy at Helsinki. At the time of this writing there is still lacking certain information to complete the entire story. However, it is felt worthwhile to record all events while the memory is still fresh. In the following paragraphs the defector is referred to as "subject" and pseudonyms and identities are used in all other cases.

2.  At approximately 0730 hours Saturday, 16 December, Arnold J. LYACK (Chief, CABEZONE) contacted me at my home and asked me to proceed immediately to the residence of Joel D. RENTHAM (Chief of Station). Upon arrival at BENTHAM's residence, BENTHAM and LYACK briefed me on the Stockholm cable which announced Stockholm's intent to endeavor to fly subject and family "black" from Stockholm to Frankfurt aboard the Air Attache aircraft. Cable also requested Frankfurt to have an aircraft available to receive immediately subject and family and take off forthwith to the United States. LYACK also mentioned an IN cable from DIR which requested Stockholm to move family soonest to CABEZONE in Frankfurt for establishment of bona fides.

3.  We then adjourned to the office and awaited more word from either Stockholm, which would advise on the arrival time of the family at Frankfurt, or from Headquarters concurring in Stockholm's request for immediate departure of the family for the United States upon arrival at Frankfurt. EAOB was immediately alerted and they made arrangements to have a C-54 with augmented crew prepared to depart for the United States by 1200 hours. A compartment for the subject's family was put in the C-54 and the regularly assigned tail number was removed and a false number put on the aircraft. Conrad V. LAPOLLA (Acting Chief; COS/KUSODA) was contacted and asked to come to the office immediately. Discussions were then held with LYACK and Carl T. UPDILL as to the availability of a KUDOVE case officer with Russian language capability to act as escort.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

4-00000





## 2

14-3

4. Having heard nothing from either [Stockholm] or Headquarters by 0945 hours OPIM traffic was sent in both directions telling them Germany was prepared to receive and effect immediate black evacuation of the family to the United States. In the meantime, it had been determined that IDENTITY A would be used as the security escort and Russel K. MUCHANK (AD/PI Staff) would be on standby to serve as a KIDOVE escort. This was a contingency arrangement because we lacked knowledge whether or not a KUDOVE officer from either Helsinki or Stockholm was prepared to travel with subject all the way to Washington.

5. Around 1100 hours I asked Edward. P. TOCHENSKY (Chief; RAOB) to establish contact with the Wiesbaden Air Bagestower and lay on arrangements to monitor the flight of the Stockholm Air Attache plane. This was done because we have had previous instances of "black" arrivals at Wiesbaden where the aircraft actually arrived before the ETA cable from the Station dispatching the body. At about 1115 hours FOCHENSKY informed me by telephone that the Stockholm Air Attache aircraft, a C-45, was and had been at the Wiesbaden Air Base since 12 December. At about 1130 we cabled this information to Stockholm 14-3 and DIR and also offered to dispatch an aircraft to Copenhagen to make the pickup if Stockholm could move the body there. Because of technical difficulties involving air clearances and lengths of runways, we could not imsemately get into any field north of Copenhagen.

6. At approximately 1145 hours a cable was received from Headquarters concurring in the immediate evacuation from Wiesbaden by EAOB aircraft of subject's family upon arrival. If such could not be arranged we were then requested to hold subject and family at (CABEZONE.

7.  Having heard nothing from Stockholm by apprately 1600
    02
    hours we again sent them OPIM traffic asking that they inform us immediately of their intentions. I had previously left the office about 1430 hours in order to get some lumen and take one of one or tae parsonal items. I had called Nelson R. POLIAKOFF (Deputy for Administration Staff) in to cover for me and had briefed him on the then current situation. When I returned at 1600 hours MUCHANE had come into the office prepared for the trip. We then sent the above- mentioned cable and suggested that MUCHANK return to his quarters and await further developments. I phoned TOCHINSKY and suggested that he and his communicator return to their quarters. LAPOLLA, in the mean- time, had gone to Rhein/Main Airport to meet an incoming staffer carry- ing classified material and get him through Customs. lie then returned to his home. I left word with the Signal Center Watch Officer that any incoming traffic on subject'a irip should be telephoned lamediately to LAPOLJA who would come in, review the traffic and contact me. The

SEGRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Watch Officer was also asked to immediately phon: the Wiesbaden Com-
municator who in turn would contact TOCHENSKY and both of them would
go to their office.

8. At approximately 1900 hours LAFOLLA contacted me at home from
   the Signal Center and informed me that an ETA and other information was
   in from Stockholm I told him to stand by and I would immediately come
   in. Based on Stockholm's cabled statement that Martin K. ROODINE (Chief 27, 14-1
   of Station, Helsinki) was escorting subject to the United States, T
   told LAPOLLA not to alert MUCHANE. I arrived at the office at 1930
   hours and immediately dispatched the Guard Sergeant to buy certain
   types of foods and magazines that Stockholm asked to be put aboard the
   United States-bound aircraft. We contacted TOCHENSKY and ascertained
   that EAOB was in a state of immediate readiness. David R. MULPALL
   (COS/KUSODA office) then arrived with IDENTITY A. IDENTITY A was given
   a general briefing on the mission and his responsibility following
   which he and LAPOLLA took off immediately for Wiesbaden. They took
   with them the purchases of the Guard Sergeant.

9. I then proceeded to the home of Ronald M. CORBANE (COS Lawyer)
   where we were guests for dinner. At approximately 2200 hours I received
   a call from LAPOLLA that subject and family had arrived, the turnover
   was made, and that the EAOB aircraft was airborne at approximately 2150
   hours. I telephoned this information to BENTHAM.

10. At approximately 2245 hours I received a call from the Signal
    Center Watch Officer who relayed to me the following message from the
    Wiesbaden Communicator. That message stated the BAOB aircraft was
    immediately returning to wiesbaden because of a sick passenger. Immedi-
    ately thereafter I received a call from LAPOLLA who was at the quarters
    of Arthur G. DREIBERIS (BAOB) in wiesbaden. LOFOLIA stated that he
    had gotten hold of the Air Base Flight Surgeon and was proceeding to
    the Air Base. He bow at that time ac othor details. I told him Chester
    E. FAGERLUND (Cos Musical Officer) and myself would leave immediately
    for Wiesbaden Air Base.

11. PAGERLUND was in attendance at the same dinner party and we
    departed immediately for the Air Base. Upon arrival at approximately
    2300 hours the EAOB aircraft had already landed and eximia senurity
    provisions were observed in the area. Air Police had the "Hargar 34
    Area" blocked off two blocks in either direction.

12. TOCHENSKY met me outside the building and informed me that
    immediately after take-off subject's mix-year-old daughter lind become
    extremely sirsick and suffered respiratory difficulties, she was
    administered oxygen. The mother became hysterical and the father
    demanded that the aircraft immediately be returned to its point of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

departure. He further stated he would not agree to further travel
to the United Statesixcept by commercial jet. He then entered the
Operations Office of the 7405th Flight Squadron where I was introduced
to ROODINE, who recited basically the same story as told by TOCHENSKY.
We also ascertained that the Flight Surgeon had looked at the daughter
and had found nothing organically wrong. We then asked ROODINE to
bring FAGERLUND into the room where subject's family was staying and
introduce him as an "Azerican Intelligence Service Medical Officer"
and have FAGERLUND examine the child. FAGERLUND's results were the
same as the Flight Surgeon and no medication was given the child. A
discussion of some fifteen minutes then took place as to how best to
proceed with onward transportation arrangements. HOODINE took me aside
and strenuously impressed me with the fact that subject was of the
opinion that certain of his information on the matter of Soviet/Finnish
relations was of great perishability and that subject deeply felt his
necessity to arrive in Washington and state this information within
the next 48 hours. ROODINE also stated he concurred in subleot's feel-
ings. All KUBARK representatives then on the scene again got together
and the undersigned made the decision to abort the mission, arrange
immediate safe-housing overnight for subject and his family, and
attempt commercial transportation on Sunday.

13. Earlier in the day LYACK informed me that he had cleared out
    their Eschborn safe-house in case we should need it. I immediately
    tried to contact LYACK by phone but there was no answer. I then phoned
    Henry R. GANLINGAY (Deputy for Administration Staff) and asked him to
    do for me the following thingst

02
a. Contest Stephen R. LACKLEN (CABEZONE) and tell him we had
an ismediato need to house a family of three, plus two
KUBARK officers at Eschborn. To further toll LACKLEN to
be standing by at Opel Circle opposite the Minneapolis
Honeywell Building at 0100 hours end de prepared to escort
another vehicle to Eachborn.

b. Phone 8SATHAN and teil him we would drop by his house
later that evening to brief him on any developments.

c. Phone YACK and tell him we were using Eschborn.

14. All concerned departed Wiesbaden Air Base at approximately
    0020 hours on 17 December and arrived at the meeting point at Opel
    Circle at exactly 2100 hours. Subfoot's family plus MULFALL, who had
    also gone immediately to Wiesbaden, followed LACKLEN's car to Bechborn.
    PAOKRLAND, LAPOLLA, ROOD INs, and myself went immediately to BENTHAN'
    house.

![Seal]

![Text: SECRET]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

5

15. BENTHAM was then fully briefed on developments and ROODINE gave certain operational information of a sensitive nature from subject το ΒΕΝΤΙΑΝ. After necessary analysis and discussion the following decisions were reached:

a. We would endeavor to remove the family out of Frankfurt by commercial aircraft that day, 1.6., Sunday, 17 December.

b. In the absence of the ability to accomplish this, we would endeavor to remove them on an Air Force Hodical Evacuation Flight on Monday, 18 December.

c. Freeph Q. KLDMACK (Chief, CoS/XURIOT) was contacted by phone from HENTHAN's residence and said he believed that his people could affix in the subject's passports a Federal Republic entry stamp. This was considered necessary in order to prevent embarrassing questions by German Immigration Authorities on Sunday when the family would depart by commercial air. The family had entered the Federal Republic "black" and accordingly there was no entry permit in their Soviet Diplomatic passports.

d. We would return LAPOLLA and HOODINE to the safe-house and I would also send out one enlisted guard with sidearm.

16. A cable to Headquarters was drafted on the basis of all this information and everyone departed the HENTHAM residence for their respective missions. I proseeded to the Signal Conter and released the drafted cable.

17. I arrived back at my quarters about 0330 hours. At about 0410 hours I received a call from KLEMACK, wanting to get in touch with LAPOLLA on matters pertaining to the documentation work he was tryin to accomplish. I gave him the telephone number of the Eschborn safe-house. It turned out that the cold weather had affected telephone com-mnications to Rschhorn and the phone was dead. KIHACK Uich went c te Rechborn and discussed his probled with LAPULLA and HOUDINE. I am informed, but as yet do not know the technical reason why, that KURIOT could not put in the subject's passport the required German entry stamp. It was decided at the meeting at the Ksohborn safe-house that KURIOT would try to make and have ready by the next morning Austrian passports for subject and his family.

11

18. At about 0600 hours I received a call from the Signal Center Watch Officer informing me that Headquarters "approved your plan." 1 ármediately tried to contact the Eschborn safe-house by phone but to no avail. Around 0630 I acutaotou hlinin at the kimior installation and was then informed by him of his earlier visit to Eschborn around 0400. He told me during his phone conversation that LAPOLLA was going to get up about 0700 hours. I surmised that LAPULLA would proceed immediately to the office and then did so myself.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

19. LAPOLIA arrived at the office sometime shortly after 0800.
    We then discussed what our possibilities were, based on the situation as we then saw it. We had no guarantee that the [Austrian passports would be finished by AURIST in time to be used by an early afternoon United States flag commercial jet. We discussed again, as we had the previous evening, contacting Mr. William Naylor, the Pan American Senior Officer in Germany and a cleared and witting contact, as to whether or not he could arrange to board passengers without going through German Immigra- tion, 1.0., Passport Control. The question of the availability of seats was also involved. LAPOLLA suggested that we phone Naylor in his residence in Bad Homburg and explain to him we had a matter of serious urgency and ask him to come immediately to the I.U. Farben Building and discuss the matter with us. The phone call was made and Naylor agreed to do this. LAPOLLA then contacted the MATS Office at Khein/Nain to ascertain if MATS had any commercial jets chartered for departure that day. He discovered that they had no commercial jet chartered flights that day but at midnight on Sunday they were dispatching a C-135 con- figured to carry 66 passengers. He was further informed that 3% of these seats had been given to the Air Force and 3) to the Army to be used only by single military personnel departing to the States on Christmas leave. No families could be sent on the flight. Inasmuch as a C-135 is the military cargo version of a Boeing 707, LAPOLLA and myself discused seriously the advisability of endeavoring to get military authority to fly this family out. We decided against such course of cotion for several reasons. We anticipated that there would be too much conversation among the single military personnel aboard the flight when they observed five civilians, three of whom were obviously a family, flying on the same plane. The fact that the six-year-old daughter spoke no English also contributed to the adverse situation we anticipated. Secondly, subject and family had already been aboard one cargo type aircraft and were reported to ROODINE to have made a series of uncomplimentary remarks of the type transportation that they were being afforded.

20. Naylor arrived at the office at about 1000 hours and was made generally aware of our problem. He was informed that the principal traveler involved was a defecting Russian diplomat, plus wife and child, and that we were under obligation to expeditiously and securely return them to the United States by Jet aircraft. He was further informed that we lacked the proper doowaentation to board them on the commercial airoraft through normal clearance procedures and we had no guarantee that we would have the documentation by flight departure time of PAA No. 75 at 1315 hours. We then asked him what he considered to the possibilities of working out. a procedure to board the party "black" and to prevent any divulgence of their existence to the delman Immigra- tion Authorities. After considerable discussion it appeared that there


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

7

existed a very good possibility to get the passengers aboard the air
craft and successfully circumvent German passport controls. Naylor
contacted his own assistant and the PAA Operations Officer assigned to
Rhein/Main, both of whom are United States citizens, and asked that
they proceed to the airport and stand by to assist him in the handling
of some very important personages who were departing on PAA No. 73.
He then ascertained that only three first class seats were available
on this flight. He told his assistant to seat two passengers in the
aircraft lounge and he would accept full responsibility for it. This
is somewhat touchy in the airlines business as lounge seats have no
safety belte. He also know additional first class seats were available
out of London.

21. In the meantime, KLEMACK and one of his men working on the
    documentation had returned to Eschborn to take pictures of subject and
    his family that would be necessary for the Austrian passports. The
    best reading we could get from the KURIOT people working on the doou-.
    ments was that they would not be ready on time. Inasmuch as decisions
    had been made, we decided to set the wheels in motica and started the
    family to the airport. LAPOLLA accordingly took off for Eschborn and
    a plan was agreed upon where he would arrive with the family in front
    of the Rhein/Main Departure Building at 1230 hours. Naylor would be
    standing by the entrance and take the family via a circuitous airport
    building route to the PAA Operations Office which is located on the
    second floor of the building beyond Passport Control. Naylor departed
    at about the same time as LAPOLLA and went directly to the airport.

22. Earlier in the morning I had asked BOTHAN if he could effect
    arrangements at the Consulate to have a Visa Officer standing by to put
    United States visitors' visas for subject's family in the Austrian pass-
    ports. BHAM accomplished this and, at Naylor's suggestion, we asked
    if the Consulate Officer could go to the PAA Operations Office at Rhein/
    Mair, and and by there to accomplish his visa work. By 60 Going we
    could save approximately 30 minutes time. I contacted Mr. Rollie White
    of the Consulate office and he agreed to meet us at the airport at
    1245 hours.

23. I next phoned BENTHAM and made him aware of our situation. It
    did not look as if we would have any lineble documentation to pass the
    family and would have to take tire chance of wirearvenuting the Passport
    Control. Our principal concern was that a German Immigration Officer
    would be standing by the aircraft doparture area and would ask to see
    subject's passport. We could not get Hubject's family aboard the
    regular bus that goes from the departure building to the aircraft
    because there was no way we would get them to the bus loading area
    without going through Passport Control, RATHAM asked how we evaluated
    an ability to withdraw gracefully at plane side if challenged by Cerman


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

8

authorities. I told him the chances were better than even and that we would appeal to the fact that this was a VIP party being handled out of the regular airport procedures and that the passports had been left in the PAA office. he would then put the party back in the vehicle that took them out and just keep going. RENTHAM authorized us to proceed with the "black" evacuation.

24. I then made one last call to KURIOT and told them if they could not complete their work and get the passports to the airport by 1315 hours to forget it. With that MULFALL and myself left for Whein/Main.

25. We arrived at Rhein/Main exactly at 1230 hours as subject's party was drawing up. The group was then taken by a circuitous route to the PAA Operations office. It was scertained that PAA No. 73 would arrive at 1245 hours, approximately thirty minutes late.

26. During our wait at the PAA Operations Office, ROODINE got me aside three or four times and kept me continuously aware of subject's fear that an attempt would be made to sabotage his plane. He ad evidenced this concern ever since his arrival in Frankfurt. Subject told KOODINE he felt sure that Soviet agents would be found among some of the employees of the commercial airlines and the management of khein/ Nain Airport. He mentioned the section of the RIS that works specifically on assassinations and sabotage. He was fearful of any baggage being loaded very late or any "spare baggage" that might be found aboard the aircraft. I told ROODINE we were very sympathetic but we were not about to ask Naylor, who had now gone much further than one could be reasonably expected to on our behalf, to off-load the baggage of 184 passengers and search it.

27. Two events happened while we were waiting in the office to board the parties that were of some disturbance. The airplane Captain reported to the PAA Operations Officer that a gun was found aboard the plane. Upon investigation it was determined that this gun belonged to an Armed Forces courier who had carried classified material on the air- craft to Frankfurt. The airplane captain, upon being asksa by Naylor if there had been any unusual activities on the part of the passengers, then described one party flying in the first-class compartment. This Flight and originated in San Francisco and was flying around the world westboisid. At New Delhi a United States oitizen, a correspondent for an unknown newspaper, boarded the plane with his wife and a female nurse. The flight orew had been informed that he was an alcchclis ard was being returned to the United States at the request of the United States Embassy at New Delhi. For part of the trip he had acted in somewhat of an obnoxious fashion art had insulted some of the other passengers. The Captain had investigated the situation and was of the opinion that the correspondent was now sufficiently drunk and lagked sufficient stamina

RYBAT
SEOSET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

to insult anybody. I asked the Captain if there was a purser or a
male attendant assigned to the first-class section. He stated on this
particular flight all cabin service personnel were female. He stated,
however, that another PAA Captain was flying dead-head on the trip, was
a big burly sort of fellow, and if need be, could spend most of the
trip in the lounge to watch the correspondent. IDENTITY A oxpressed
grave reservation about now going forward with the trip because of the
correspondent. It was my opinion, however, that between IDENTITY A,
ROODINE, and the extra PAA Captain that if the correspondent again
got obnoxious they could sufficiently cope with him. The regular Cap-
tain left the definite impression with me that the correspondent was
sufficiently drunk, that he would either soon pass out or in any event
would not represent a threat to subject's making the trip. It was,
therefore, deoIded that the trip would proceed. IDENTITY A informed
the Captain that he was a United States Government representative escort-
ing a family aboard the plane and requested the Captain to keep the door
of the flight deck looked from the inside during the length of the
trip. To this the Captain agreed.

28. Subject's party, accompanied by Naylor and the PAA Operations
    Officer departed the office at 1325 hours, entered a PAA crew bus,
    drove immediately to the first-class ramp and successfully boarded the
    aircraft. At about 1335 KLENACK arrived with subject's two original
    Russian passports. These were then put in a brown manila envelope and
    one of Naylor's United States citizen employees was anked to proceed
    Immediately to the aircraft and give these to ROODINE.

29. At about 1300 hours we had phoned to KURIOT and told Ralph 0.
    MASSBOCK that he had another thirty minutes to get the Austrian pass-
    ports to the airport because of the aircraft's delayed departure. The
    11 Austrian passports arrived at approximately 1345 hours. Hollie White
    immediately started to enter in those passports the United States
    visitor's visas. At approximately 1355 the FAA Ground Crew Cimef
    notified PAA Operations that Flight No. 73 was mechanically cleared for
    doparture and completely loaded. At that time a PAA representative
    started to run free the Departure building to the plene with a little
    piece of luggage. Nayior was coming back from the plane in the crew
    bus. Ho intercepted the PAA employee and took the bag and drove it
    back to the plane. He later told us he opened the bag, one of the
    flight bag variety, and on his own initiative examined the contents.
    It contained items of apparel used by ladies that will not be further
    identified.

30. At 1400 the Ground Crew Chief stated again the plane was ready
    for departure and asked why the plane was being held up. It was being
    held up because White had not finished all the entries on the passports.
    However, the PAA Operations Officer informed the Ground Crew Chief that

SEODET

15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

the weight of the loaded plane had been questioned and they were recom-
puting total weight. At about 1405 the *Austrian* passports with United
Statet visas were carried in a brown envelope by a PAA United States
cititen employee and given to ROODINE. The plane was then cleared for
daperture and rolled out at 1414 hours.

As the only other information known at the time of this writing
is that the aircraft was diverted to bermuda because of bad weather
conditions in New York. Haylor telephoned me that information about
2002 hours on Monday morning, 18 December.

ROGER I. MCKEE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

S/C ATT B TO EOOT-14004, 11 Jan 68

TO: Chief, SR

ATTN: Sherman O. CUBICK

FROM: Chief of Station, Germany

SECRET

![signature] 13 FEB 1552

GYBAT

RYDA


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)