# 104-10174-10043 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992.

Dear Mr. Tichborn:

The following is set forth as clarification of your present mission, and the procedures which will be followed in the conduct of it. Please indicate your agreement by signing below.

## A. Operational

1.  You will be briefed generally on some aspects of the Cuban situation while in Washington on this date..

2.  The major briefing to be given you concerning the local political situation, security precautions, and more detailed instructions on your present mission will be undertaken upon your arrival in Havana.

3.  Upon arrival in Havana a tourist card will be issued by the Cuban Immigration authorities. You will give your true name and occupation in the United States and state that you are in that area as a "tourist".

4.  Your initial contact in Havana will be with IDEN A (name and telephone number attached hereto). When making this call, you will identify yourself as Fred. Morse.

5.  IDEN A will then give you the briefing mentioned in paragraph 2 above.

6.  IDEN A will also arrange to put you in contact with about two individuals for the purpose of starting you on your assignment. It is anticipated that other leads and contacts will result from these introductions, both in Havana and the interior.

7.  When talking to any local contacts you make while in Cuba, your cover story will be the following: that you are talking to them on the behalf of some (unnamed) American businessmen and investors in order to assess discreetly their position and legal resources as concerns the revolutionary laws and to determine the possibility for future financial development and investments.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

8. We are providing you with a letter from a cover company (attached hereto) which you will use only in the case of extreme emergency in the event that you come to the attention of the Cuban authorities. This letter states that you are there on a vacation and that this company has asked you to get some first-hand information on the subjects mentioned in paragraph 7 above while there if you are so inclined. This will provide you with a plausible excuse for being both a tourist and one interested in talking with local personalities.

9. Your mission generally is to talk with as many knowledgeable persons as possible regarding the political situation in Cuba, with special emphasis on the opposition, its strengths, weaknesses, plans and programs. Of particular interest is the possibility or feasibility of a coalescence of these opposition groups.

B. Administrative

1.  While on your present assignment you will keep a record of your expeuses which will enable you to submit the required accounting for funds upon your return. In keeping the accounts you should note times of arrival and departure, detailed notation of expenses incurred, and the rate of exchange obtained when exchanging U. S. dollars into local currency.

2.  Upon your return you will submit two accountings. One will include your salary under "services rendered", and also your expenses and will be in true name to the following company:

Ashmead, Haniford Associates
1615 Spruce Street,
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

3. The second accounting will also include salary and operational expenses and will be submitted in pseudonym to:

Henry W. Darkın
P. 0. Box 8105
Southwest Station
Washington, D. C.

![signature]

![date]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)