# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

25 JAN 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
National Security Agency

SUBJECT : William H. MARTIN

1. On 15 January 1968 this Agency received the following information from our liaison contact in the Canadian Department of State for External Affairs:

a. The Canadian Press Correspondent in Moscow, William BUCKLEY, approached our Embassy informally in the middle of December on behalf of William MARTIN, the ex-employee of NSA who defected to the Soviet Union in 1960.

b. According to BUCKLEY, MARTIN wishes to see his parents for compassionate reasons and wants to know if he would be admitted to Canada without fear of extradition to the United States if he were to arrange a rendez-vous with his parents in Vancouver. We do not know whether MARTIN still has a United States passport or whether he has become a Soviet citizen. In any event MARTIN considers himself inadmissible to the United States.

c. BUCKLEY met MARTIN at the apartment of Howard RAUSCH, the Moscow correspondent for McGraw-Hill Publications. In addition MARTIN later telephoned BUCKLEY to indicate his interest in finding out whether or not he could come to Canada. BUCKLEY assumes, quite rightly I would think, that the manner in which MARTIN has made his request indicates that his Russian hosts are aware of his interest in getting out of the Soviet Union to see his parents.

d. We have informed our embassy that it should take no action to encourage BUCKLEY or MARTIN to believe that a visa would be granted if MARTIN were to make formal application. Since, however, MARTIN's interest in coming to Canada is already in a newspaperman's hands, we cannot rule out the possibility that BUCKLEY might write about MARTIN's interest. Such a story would probably lead to the need for an expression of the Canadian Government's attitude. In making recommendations on the kind of response that might be made in the event that a question is put to my Minister, it

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

would be useful to know what MARTIN's status in law is so far as the United States is concerned. If, for example, your Government could not take legal action, the Canadian authorities would be in a position if this matter came to public attention to say that they were not aware of any barrier preventing MARTIN from seeing his parents in the United States. I should be most grateful if through your channels we could be provided informally with an indication of MARTIN's status in law in the United States.

BUCKLEY's only other comment on MARTIN was that he didn't really know what to make of MARTIN. MARTIN seemed outspoken in dealing with the shortcomings of life in the Soviet Union. On the other hand he spoke with a slight stammer and seemed nervous. BUCKLEY'S view for what it is worth is that MARTIN is not interested in getting into trouble with the Russians or doing anything which they might consider underhanded. I should emphasize that no member of the Canadian Embassy has had any direct contact with MARTIN.

2. On 18 January 1968 the Federal Bureau of Investigation was advised of the foregoing informally, in order to explore the possibility of providing an indication of Subject's status in law, as requested in paragraph 1. d. above.

3. This Agency was advised by the Department of State on 19 January that Subject's parents had written to the Department advising that Subject would like to visit his parents, that he was planning a visit to Canada, and inquiring what Subject's legal position would be if he did indeed visit. The Department indicated that it planned to inquire what the U. S. Embassy in Moscow knew of Subject's travel plans, including a check with the Canadian Embassy to ascertain if Subject had applied for a visa. The Department was apprised of the informal Canadian inquiry as to Subject's status, but indicated that it would refrain from making any reference to this inquiry in seeking information from the U. S. Embassy in Moscow.

4. Our representative in Ottawa was apprised of the developments cited in paragraph above, and requested to pass them on to the liaison contact, on 19 January 1968.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: James R. Hunt

JAMES ANGLETON

CSCI 316/00326-68
cc: Department of State
Federal Bureau of Investigation

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

E/BC/CANADA:JKHowley:cs - 23 January 1968

Based on: OCOA-12663 12 January 1968

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - C/CI

1- CI/Liaison

1-CI/REA

1-FID/CSB

1 - E/DC/Canada

1 - State

1 - FBI


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)