# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

HOUSE SELECTION ASSASSIESATICIS STAFT MLAWEES

FILE TITLE/NIPIRER/VOLERIE: MEROLA, JISETH R
201-257804

INCLUSIVE DATES: 1959-1977-

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: LSN/ISR

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: THIRD AFFINCY DOCUMENTS.

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAIE) | SIGNATURE OF REVIENING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               | 26            | Forateck                 |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE.

![CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM]

MATERIAL FILED IN THIS FOLL
IS IN CHRONOLOGICAL U

MEROLA. Josenh R.
201-257804


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FBI DOCUMENTS:

DATE: 1 OCTOBER 1959
SUBJECT: CARIBBFAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES - CUBA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE GIVEN

DATE: 1 JUNE 1959
SUBJECT: RUBEN OSCAR MIRO CUARDIA
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE : MIAMI 97-261 BUREAU 105-75663


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

AGENCY DOCUMENT CONTAINING FBI INFORMATION
DATE: 16 JUNE 1959
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FBI REPORTS:
DATE: 11 MARCH 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS-PANAMA
FBI FILE #: 109-12-223 (BUREAU)

DATE: 30 SEPTEMBER 1958
SUBJECT: JOSEPH MEROLA; B. LEONARD BIRD;
ROBERT DILLARD: UNKNOWN PILOT
FBI FILE #: 97-230 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FBI DOCUMENT
DATE: 1 JUNE 1959
SUBJECT: RUBEN OSCAR MIRO GUARDIA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: MY 97-261


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

DEPT OF ARMY DOCUMENT
DATE: 13 MAY 1959
SUBJECT: JOSEPH R. MEROLA (SD 7003-A) (c)
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE #: ACSI-CO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

FBI DOCUMENTS (SOME NOT COMPLETE)

DATE: 22 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS - PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 21 APRLL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS PAÑAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 20 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223

DATE: 17 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS PANAMA
FILE: 1.09-12-223
CLASSIFICATION: NONE

DATE: 10 APRIL 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTERS CUBA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE #: 109-12-223

DATE: 2 April 1959
SUBJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
FOREIGN POLITICAL MATTER PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FIBLE: SAC, MIAMI (109-43)

DATE: 5 MARCH 1959
SUPJECT: PANAMANIAN REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES
INTERNAL SECURITY PANAMA
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: 109-12-223


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTov, D.C. 20305

OGC 77-2335
11 April 1977

David M. Curry, Esq.
First Assistant U.S. Attorney
Western District of Pennsylvania
633 U.S. Post Office and Courthouse
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219

Dear Mr. Curry:

Re: Joseph Raymond Merola

In response to your letter of March 10, 1977 I wish to advise you that the Central Intelligence Agency had one meeting with Joseph Raymond Merola prior to August 1961. In late 1960 Joseph Raymond Merola made several telephone calls to a CLA office offering his assistance in a general way in connection with Cuban matters, which was refused. However, on 6 February 19ól Merola claimed to have information on a Latin American senator who was a "close friend and confidant" of "Che" Guevera. Since Guevera was listed as being the subject of foreign intelligence requirements, the CIA employee agreed to meet with Mr. Merola. The meeting took place on 6 February 1961 and is the only meeting with Merola prior to his incarceration which you stated in your letter began in August 1961.

Mr. Merola was not employed by the Central Intelligence Agency. His contact with the CIA could not be described as an undercover Government informant as alleged in the Writs of Error Coram Nobis by Victor Carlucci. and Daniel Hanna. This one contact on 6 February 19ól by Merola with the CIA was voluntary on his part.

Mathew McVane, an employee of the CIA, did testify in San Diego in November 1975 concerning CLA contacts with Joseph Raymond Merola. The citation we have for that case is U.S. v. Dalton C. Smith, et al. in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California, No. 74-2277-GT.

![AMERICAN REVOLUTION BICENTENNIAL 1775-1316 Seal]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

The testimony given in that trial is not inconsistent with the response given above. It is true that after Merola was released from prison he again volunteered information to the CIA. Merola was a voluntary source of foreign intelligence.

I hope this provides sufficient information for you to file your response. If not, please call me at (AC 703) 351-7531.

Sincerely,

![Signature of John K. Greaney]

John K. Greaney
Associate General Counsel

cc: John Martin, Esq., Dept. of Justice

OCC/IVC/lab


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional) Joseph Raymond Merola

FROM: Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O
200109

| TO (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE      | OFFICERS INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| --------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| RECEIVED                                            | FORWARDED |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 1. Mr. Raymond Warren                               | 11 APR    |                   |                                                                                                 |
| C/LA                                                |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 3C2019 Hqs.                                         |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 2.                                                  | 11 APR    |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 3. DC/LA                                            | 14        |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 4. File-201                                         |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 5.                                                  |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 6.                                                  |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 7.                                                  |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 8.                                                  |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 9.                                                  |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 10.                                                 |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 11.                                                 |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 12.                                                 |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 13.                                                 |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 14.                                                 |           |                   |                                                                                                 |
| 15.                                                 |           |                   |                                                                                                 |

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

# LITIGATION

8 April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. John K. Greaney
Special Assistant to the
General Counsel

FROM : Maurice A. Sovern
O/SA/DO/O

SUBJECT : Joseph R. Merola

REFERENCE : Assistant United States Attorney,
Pennsylvania Letter, 10 March 1977,
Subject as Above

1. The question in reference is the nature of
   any involvement of Merola with CIA prior to
   August 1961.

2. The Directorate's first recorded contact
   with Joseph Raymond Merola prior to August 1961
   occurred on 6 February 1961. It followed a series
   of elephone calls over a period of several months
   (late 1960 - early 1961) in which Merola had
   expressed interest in offering his assistance in
   connection with Cubar matters. Our officer had
   declined contact until 6 February when Merola
   claimed to have information on a Latin American
   senator who was a "close friend and confidante"
   of "Che" Guevera. Because Guevera was the proper
   subject of foreign positive intelligence collection
   requirement our officer agreed to a meeting.

3. The last recorded contact, except for the
   litigation outlined below, with Merola was a tele-
   phone contact with Merolà in late July 1975 when
   he volunteered additional foreign positive intel-
   ligence.

4. At the end of August 1975, Merola
   contacted a staff officer to ask for testimony in
   the criminal fraud trial in San Diego, California
   (U.S. v. Joseph R. Merola, et al, Southern District
   of California, CR 74-2277-GT) which we subsequently..

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 012860


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY

provided on 13 November 1975.

5. Subject is characterized as a voluntary occasional source of foreign positive intelligence who was in sporadic contact with us.

6. We greatly appreciate the Assistant United States Attorney's concern for the confidentiality of our information. The information above may be made available to the AUSA and the court as appropriate without further restriction.

/5/

Maurice A. Sovern

O/SA/DO/O:MASovern:kaw (1542)

Distribution
Orig & 1 - OGC
1 - C/DCD
1 - C/LA
2 - SA/DO/0

- 2 -

FOR CIA OFFICIALS ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SPEED LETTER

TO:
ATTN: Frederic McCann

FROM: Crocky Br
SA/LA

SUBJECT: Joseph R. Merola-Litigation
REFERENCE: ISS/PICG Hero Std 17 Narch 1977

A review of the files confirms that the noe was not in any way involved operationally with Joseph R. Merola prior το 1961. However, it should be noted that subsequent to his release fren prisen in November 1962, Verola was in contact with members of the Frente kevolutionario Democratico, an anti-Castro organization. of interest to this Agency.

REPLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

Litigation, Joseph A. Marcia

FROM: Frederic Vocana

155/PICO

DATE: 17 March 1977

1.  SA/LA/SICO
    FI-3

2. 
3.  CG/CM2

Bill: The Marcia
file is changed to
MAS. When you're
done drop at OU6
in RI(1") and
Cancel my change,
Please.

Maunce.

4. 
5. 
6. 
7. This is an
   participation is Alleged
   participation in the PCI
   Involving the station.
   Case is 1961c-75-6, file
   file 2 of 4; for
   there be filelets containing
   references to other
   station's PCI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

CONFIDENTIAL

17 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: SA/LA/EICO
DCD

FROM: Frederic McCann
ISS/PICG

SUBJECT: Litigation: Joseph R. Merola

1. Attached herewith is an unclassified memorandum received from OGC which requests information on the "extent and nature of any involvement of (Joseph R.) Merola with federal agencies prior to August 1961".

2. A review of 201-257804 reveals that Mr. Merola may have been in contact with WII/Miami in 1961 and was in contact with DCD prior to 1961.

3. Please review your files and provide whatever information is pertinent to paragraph 1., above. No information will be released outside of CIA without your concurrence.

4. 201-257804 is attached to the SA/LA/EICO copy of this memorandum. Please return it with your reply by 1 April 1977.

![Signature of Frederic McCann]
Frederic McCann

Attachments: a/s

CONFIDENTIAL

![IMPOET CL BY: blank box]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

DEPT OF JUSTICE DOCUVENT
SUBJECT: JOSEPE PAYMOND MEROLA
DATE: 10 MARCE 1977
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

trial, "actively engaged in the service of tre governmen!"

Irving Green, attorney for Cartuca and Hanna, said the prosecutors, Ha bert 1. Tete.baum and Daniel J. Sar dor, knew Merola was a government agent and therefore "perpetrated a fraud upon ine-tmas court."

Tetelbaura and Snyder are now fed eal judges a Pittacurza and have r commented about the action filed by Green, which is still pending. But oficial Tamatar with their positiza snd the tam judges will, if necessary, swear they did not now Meroia was a government agent.

## Cuban Connection

"The answer to this whole thing revolves around Cuba," said this offi- cial.

Green, who represents Mannarino's son-in-law, said he didn't thinis Merola's testimony la Chicago had been particularly "heipfu!" to the prese cution. A "imore logical assumption" is that Merola was freed from prisua because of what he could do for the government in Cuba, he said.

"This gay works anywhere he wants to," said Green. "The governmer: has protected him in California, Chicago and everywhere else. He still has to be of value to the government."

One thing is certain: Merola is wel known in the Miami Cuban comm nity and among those who have been linked to alleged Castro assassination attempts..

"Joe was an undercover agent, he was closely associated with the gov- crament," Frank Sturgis, of Miami, told The Bulletin, "He did have an as- sociation with the CIA."

Sturgis, who gained notcriety as one of those convicted in the Watergate burglary, was a ton Castro Lieutenant during the revolucion who served as a double agent for the CLA. He later worked against Castro in the Day of, Pigs operation and has acraitted plott ing to kill Castro

"I know Joe was involved with the revolutionaries," said Sturgis, "I know he had an association with the CIA, but because of compan mentalization, you don't know what they're doing."

## Tied to Burglar

A source close to the nations Committee said Merola was "a good friend" of Fugeria (Road) Merarer, another of those convicted of the Watergate burglary. Martinez bis asuciaied with the CIA in the Bay of Prys effort and in other sati-Castro moves.

"Joe's place in Miami Beach was on the water and it was used by ante-Castro groups to sm.ogle arms to Cuba," this source said. "Martinez was one of them."

"I can't recall," Martinez said, when asked by The Bulletin about using Merula's dock. "Really, I can't tell you arything about it.

"He was connected with helping people here in Miam against the dictatorship of Bausta. He might have been in some other branch that I don't know about."

Altredo Borges, a Miami business consultant and a Bay of Pigs veteran, told a Bulletin reporter inquiring about Merola to "please write me a letter."

"I don't know who you are." Borges said, "I cannot tais over the tele: phone."

One investigator interested in Ne rola said the matter is "very sensi tive, records are hard to come by."

"He seems to it everything." this investigator said. "He's a pilot, he speaks Spanish, he knows Cuba and he's connected. But nobody wants to cooperate."

## A Scared Man

Records indeed are hard to come by. Official and unofficial attempts to cocain complete records of Merola's arrests proved fruitless. So did efforts to determine wins: encounters be might have had with officials respon sable for watching the nation's bor-.

But despite the best of some that Meroia enjoys the protection of the government while at the same time being welcomed by crganized crime, those who know him say that is not the case.

"Joe has got a little money," said one Florida acquaintance. "I don't Anow where he gets in Sut he's an un former and they hate informers. The is concerned."

"He goes around Dace (County), but he is very, very careful where be goes, Joe is scared."


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

TO POLICE OFFICE

SUBJECT: Court Appearance on 13 November 1975, San Diego, California

1.  On 13 November 1975, Matt MacVane appeared as a witness for the defense at the United States District Court for the Southern District of California, 325 West F Street, San Diego, California. The case was the United States of America V. Dalton C. Smith, et al. MacVane was called to testify by E. Mac Amos Jr., attorney for defendant Joe Kerola. In honor of the subpoena MacVane appeared at the court. On 13 November 1975 at approximately 15:30 hours San Diego time MacVane was called to the witness stand.

2.  Mac Amos, attorney for defendant Joe Merola began questioning after MacVane was sworn in as a witness. Amos asked how long MacVane had been employed by the CIA? He asked if MacVane knew defendant Merola? He asked if MacVane were told by Merola about a shipment of surplus helicopter parts going to the country of El Salvador? He asked MacVane if Merola had volunteered other information to the Agency? He then asked if Merola were ever paid for such information? Amos also tried to establish the value of surplus parts in Latin America compared to the US. This was objected to by attorney Robert Thaller, prosecutor in the case. The judge sustained the objection and MacVane did not have to answer the question. Amos finished his questioning and Thaller began a short cross examination. Thaller asked if MacVane ever heard Merola mention stocks? He also asked if MacVane knew the name of the corporation that Merola represented? He then pointed out that even if some stock fraud were occurring, MacVane would not be witting because MacVane was not an investigator, but rather a collector of foreign information. The cross examination then ended. All questions were answered to the best of MacVane's ability and knowledge.

3.  There appeared to be little purpose in the appearance of MacVane because it was obvious that MacVane knew nothing of any value concerning the case. MacVane's total time on the witness stand was about 10 minutes. After completion of his testimony MacVane was released.

![signature]

MCMacVane:ljh

![logo of justice scale] E2 IMPDET CL BY CLI563

Bay U.S. Savings Banks Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

![horizontal line]

DI:
DISTRICT JUDGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SENDER WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND BOTTOM
UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

## OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE     | INITIAL |
| --- | ---------------- | -------- | ------- |
| 1   | _Via Barner_     | *6/4/71* | *f*     |
| 2   |                  |          |         |
| 3   | _Mr. Juincy_     |          | _3_     |
| 4   |                  |          |         |
| 5   |                  |          |         |
| 6   | *SD*             |          |         |

| ACTION      |              |                |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| COMMENT     | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| CONCURRENCE | FILE         | RETURN         |
|             | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

> Any results of the Meeting?


FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

| FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO | DATE |
| -------------------------------- | ---- |
| *Lee 6. Yates*                   |      |

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

FORM NO. 237 *use previous editions*
1-67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECRET

6 November 1975

MEMO FOR RECORD:

RE: MEROLA, Joseph R.
201-257804
U.S. Citizen Registered to DEA/HIAMI Dec 74

FYI: Today, Randy Daugherty, DCD case officer, asked to borrow subject 201 because he wanted to take it to Office of Genl. Counsel for Mr. John Greany.

There is to be a meeting today between Mr. Greany, Bob Starling, DCD COPS, and Matt McVane, DCD man in Miami who is visiting Hqs. McVane has an interest in MEROLA.

Told Randy that MEROLA was DEA source and that matter should be coordinated with NARCOG.

This transpired during lunch hour - Randy was in a hurry and I gave him file. He said he would tell Mr. Greany that Subj. was DEA source.

L.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

OGC 75-1073

5 November 1975

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

1.  On 3 November I talked to Mr. Matt McVane, DCD officer stationed in Miami, and he said that he had received the subpoena from-E Mac Amos, Jr. to appear as a defense witness in the trial in San Diego on ii November. Mr. McVane agreed to come to Headquarters on 6 November to discuss the information in the files and Mr. Robert Starling of DCD agreed to join in the meeting. Mr. McVane told me that Lt. Colonel Douglas W. Haldane, who had previously been on detail to the DCD Miami Office, had returned to the Army and was currently assigned somewhere in Europe and that his address was Headquarters, USARSUR, APO New York, New York 09403:

2.  Since this Office had received a letter from Mr. Amos with a request for the current address of Colonel Haldane, I called Mr. Amos on. 4 November and explained to him that Colonel Haldane was no longer with the Central Intelligence Agency and it was our understanding that Colonel Haldane was stationed in Europe. Mr. Amos did not want the current address of Colonel Haidane. He did state, however, that Mr. McVane would not be needed in San Diego until Wednesday morning. 12 November. As things stood now, Mr. Merola was the tifth defendant and it would be that length of time betore Mr. McVane's testimony vould be needed.

3.  Mr. McVane told ine that he had been called by Mr. Robert Thaler of the U.S. Attorney's Office in California. I told Mr. McVane that I would contact Mr. Thaler. I called Mr. Thaler who is a a member of the Organized Crime Surxa Force, Department of Justice, Room 2307, 300 North Los Angeles Street, Los Angeles, California 90012. telephone No. (AC 213) 688-5808. Mr. Thaier was pleased to hear that Mr. McVane


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

was being made available to testify and explained that he thought Mr. Amos had aircady prepared a motion to dismiss if Mr. McVane was to be denied as a witness for the defense. I explained to Mr. Thaler that Mr. McVane was coming to Headquarters on Thursday, 6 November, and said that we would call him to discuss the role Mir. McVane played in receiving information from Mr. Merola.

4. If this case runs parallel to many criminal prosecutions, the defense may never put Mr. McVane on the stand when he actually shows up as this may prove detrimental to their defense. However, we should be prepared for his testimony if, in fact, it does take place.

![signature of John K. Greaney]
John K.. Greaney::.
Associate General Counsel.

cc: Chief, DCD
Matt McVane

OGC/JKG/eh
Distribution
Original - OGG SUBJ: LITIGATION CRIMINAL.
✓ JKG Signer-
1-Chrono


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# HOLT, RHOADES AND HOLLYWOOD

A PROFESSIONAL CORPOBARO

ATTORNEYS AT LAW

1010 SECOND AVENUE SUITE 17.2

SAN DIEGO. CALIFORNIA 92101

Area 7:4
Telephone 238-1712

October 28, 1975

Office of the General Counsel
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 20505

Dear Sir:

Our firm represents Mr. Joseph Merola who is presently on trial as a defendant in the Southern District of California in an action entitled United States of America v. Dalton C. Saith, et al. (No. 74-2277-GT). In order to properly defend Mr. Merola, we need to utilize the testimony of Mr. Matt McVane and possibly the testimony of Col. Douglas Haldane. We understand that Mr. McVane is. employed by the Central Intelligence Agency and works out of the Miami office. We also understand that Col. Douglas Haldane is employed by the Central Intelligence Agency but we do not have an address for service upon Col. Haldane.

Enclosed you will find copies of Subpoenas issued for Mr. McVane: and Col. Haldane. These Subpoenas require the attendance of the individuals in the Southern District of California at San Diego, California on November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.. Enclosed you will also find a copy of the Order signed by Judge Gordon Thompson authorizing the issuance of the Subpoena for Mr. McVane. Since we do not have an address for Col. Haldane at this time, the court has not approved the issuance of a Subpoena, for him in which the government would be responsible for all of the expenses and costs.

We have been informed by Mr. McVane that it is necessary for him to obtain the approval of your office before he canitestify in this matter. Accordingly, we request that he be granted the necessary approval in order to allow him to testify in this matter. In addition, we request that we be provided with an address for Col. Haldane and that he also be allowed to.testify in Lite Case. We would appreciate weing advised as soon as


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

Office of the General Counsel
October 28, 1975
Page Two

possible with respect to whether these persons will be
available for testimony. If we can provide any additional
information with respect to this case, please do not
hesitate to contact the undersigned. Thank you for
your courtesy and cooperation.

Very truly yours,

HOLT, RHOADES & HOLLYWOOD

![signature]
By E. Mac Amos, Jr.

EMA/db
Enclosures


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# United States District Couri

FOR THE

SOUTEER! DISTRICT OF CALIFORN

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

V.

DALTON C. SMITH, et al.

No. 74-2277-GT

TRATT MCVANE

You are hereby coinínanied to appear in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California at 325 West E Street in the city of San Diego on the 11th day of November 1975 at 9:00 o'clock A. M. to testify in the above-entitled case.

This subpcena is issued on application of the defendant.

WILLIAM W. LUDOY

October 23 1975

E-MAC AMOS, OR.

Attorney Defendant MEROLA

![seal] TOSITE GALLAGHER

Deputy Clerk.

1910-Second Ave., Suite 1712
San Diego, CA 92101

RETURN

Received this subpoena at on I served it on the
and ou at
within named

by delivering a copy to and tendering to the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage allowed by law.

Service Fees

Travel ------------------- $

Services -------------------

Total ------------------- $

By ------------------------

* Insert "United States," or "defendant" as the case may be.

*l'ees and mutence need not he tendered to the witness coma service of a subnoena issued in behalf of the United States or an officer or agency thereof. 23 USC 1225, or on behalf of a defendant who is Gnancially unable to pay such costs (Kala 17 (b), Federal Bules Criminal Procedura,.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# United States District Court

FOR THE

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

V.

DALTON C. SMITH, et al.

No. 74-2277-GT

To. COL. DOUGLAS HALDANE

You are hereby commanded to appear in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of California at 325 West F Street in the city of.

San Diego on the 11th day of November 75 at 9:00 o'clock A. M. to
testify in the above-entitled case.

This subpoena is issued on application of defendant.

October 23 1975

WILLIAM W. LUDDY

E. MC AMOS, JR. Attorney for defendant MEROLA

SEAL TOSSIE GALLAGHER Clerk.

1010 Second Ave., Suite 1712

San Diego, CA 92101

Deputy Clerk.

RETURN

Received this subpoena at at on I served it on the
within named

by delivering a copy to and tendering to the fee for one day's attendance and the mileage

allowed by law.

By

Service Fees

Travel.  $

Services

Total.  $

* Insert "United States," or "defendant" as the case may be.
* Fees and mileage need not be tendered to the witness upon service of a subpoena issued in behalf of the United
  States or an officer or agency thereof. 23 USC 1825, or on behalf of a defendant who is financially unable to pay
  such costs (Rule 17 (b), Federal Rules Criminal Procedure).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# FILED

## OCT 22 1975

CLERK, US DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORILA

By DEPUTY

1.  E. MAC ANOS, JR.
    HOLT, REORDES & HOLLYWOO
2.  1010 Second Averue, Suite 171?
    San Diego, CA 92101
3.  (7150235-1712

4 Attorneys for Defendant
JOSEPH R. MEROLA

9 UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA

11 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,

Plaintiff,

NO. CR 74-2277-GT

v.

ORDER FOR ISSUANCE OF
SUBPOENAS:

14 JOSEPH R.: MEROLA, et al.,

Defendants.

17 This court having considered the application of defend

18 Joseph Merola, and the supporting affidavit of E. Mac Amos, Jr.

19 for issuance of sübpoenas directed to Edward Stanton and Matt

20 McVane and having found that good cause exists for the issuance

21 of said subpoenas,

22 IT IS HEREBY ORDERED THAT the clerk of this court issu

23 subpoenas requiring the attendance of Matt McVane and Edward

24 Stanton on November 11, 1975 at 9:00 a.m. in this court and,

25 further, that all costs and fees in relation to the attendance of

26 said witnesses shall be borne by the United States under the

27 provisions of the Criminal Justice Act.

28 DATED: OCT 22 1975

30 BY: GORDON THOMPSON, JR

GORDON THOMPSON

DISTRICT JUDGE.

SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Joseph Raymond Merola

24 October 75

1. On 23 October, Mr. Robert Starling of DCD called to say that Matthew McVane (phonetic), a DCD officer who is stationed in Miami, Florida, had received a telephone call from a San Diego attorney saying that he was mailing a subpoena to him. The attorney, E. Mac Amos, Jr., is a menter of the law firm of Holt, Rhodes and Hollywood at 1010 Second Avenue, San Diego, California 92101, telephone No. (AC 714) 238-1712. Mr. Amos advised Mr. McVane that the subpoena was for his appearance on. behalf of Mr. Merola who was on trial in San Diego.

2. Mr. Starling indicated that the charges against Merola had something to do with exporting airplane parts without a license. I called Mr. Clyde Bryant, Office of Munitions Control, Department of State, to determine if this prosecution was related to 22 U.S.C. 1934. Mr. Bryant called back and said that Merola was one of seven defendants being tried on criminal fraud charges for having engaged in a flimflam operation against the Salvadorian government. The scheme was to establish a facility in Salvador to assemble and service helicopters. The group had assembled a collection of Army surplus parts for helicopters and was in the process of shipping them without an export license and they were seized by U.SCustoms officers on 21 February 1974. Mr. Bryant indicated that the Assistant U.S. Attorney in San Diego in charge of the prosecution was a Mr. Robert Thaller, telephone No. (AC 714) 293-5668. Mr.. Bryant also indicated that an individual by the name of Henry Maier-hoffer was also one of the defendants and it was Mr. Bryant's recollection that Maierhoffer had some previous connection with CIA.

3. I called Mr. Starling and reported this information to him and he said that Mr. Merola was a real operator in the Miami area, always involved in some scheme to buy and sell weapons but that he had volun-teered information to the DCD Office, some of which was useful. I asked Mr. Starling to have Mr. McVarne call me when he got the subpoena but that he would not have to go unless they furnished the travel funds.

![signature of John K. Greaney]
John K. Greaney
Asyociate Ceneral Counsel

cc: Chief/DCD

Distribution OVER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

201 File cn U.S. Citizen

________________________ 30 Jan 1975

The 201 file on _Merola_ (surname) (201 number indicated below)
can be most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

— should be closed.

— witting collaborator. OI Code Al.

— potential witting collaborator; date opened ___________ OI Code A2.

— former witting collaborator (relationship terminated). OI Code A3.

— potential witting collaborator never contacted (security reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

— counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign intelligence of security service). OI Code A5.

**X** all others. OI Code A6. ISR

Signed ___________________________________ C/LSN/ISR
(name)                        (title)                      (component).

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed _________ Alle __________________________ 1975
(initials)             (date)

This document in a permanent part of this file.

201- 757804

CONFIDENTIAL
(When Filled In)

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 002216


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: LAB INFO: FILE: P/AN, LSN/MIL, OPS/INT, CHOOZ, OPS/NAR2, LSN/ID

TO: LA/MIAMI INFO CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA. Y

MHABYSS PBRAMPART Y

REF: A. LA/MIAMI 22730 |IN 432300*| (NOT NEEDED CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOUTAY

B. DIRECTOR 630872 |**| (NOT NEEDED CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA Y

1. JOSEPH RAYMOND M E R O L A (201-257804)/WAS REGISTERED IN ISR TO DEA/MIAMI ON 18 DEC 74 AS A COOPERATING INDIVIDUAL FOR USE IN HAITI AND COLOMBIA. IT IS REQUESTED THAT LA/MIAMI ADVISE DEA/MIAMI TO CONTACT THE FBI AND DEPARTMENT OF STATE FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON MEROLA. Y

2. FOR CARACAS, PORT AU PRINCE, BOGOTA: IN JUNE 74, DEA HAS INFORMED BKHERALD THAT MEROLA WAS OF OPERATIONAL INTEREST. REQUESTED TRACES AND STATED MEROLA REPORTEDLY WORKED FOR BKHERALD IN LATE 1950'S. WE REPLIED THAT MEROLA HAD NEVER WORKED FOR BKHERALD. ALTHOUGH WE WERE AWARE THAT HE HAD MADE SUCH CLAIMS ON NUMBER OF PREVIOUS INSTANCES. Y

3. FILE: 201-257804. E2. IMPDET. H

DATE: 8 JANUARY 1975

ORIG: DARYL GEISLER: LH

UNIT: LA/CAR/CARI

EXT: 1249

![signature of DAVID A. PHILLIPS]

DAVID A. PHILLIPS

C/LA

SECRET

LA/NARC

DDO/NARCOG

LSN/ISR

![stamp of RECORD COPY]

201-25-7804

* REF A REQUESTED TRACES & REGISTRATION OF MEROLA

** REF B FORWARDED TRACES.

![signature of ALFONSO SPERA]

ALFONSO SPERA

C/LA/CAR

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 010116


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional)
REGISTRATION REQUEST

FROM:
OPS/LS/INTERAGENCY SOURCE REGISTER BJ-5

EXTENSION NO
1064/ 5045 ISRM 39170
DATE 10 DEC 1974

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)
RECEIVED FORWARDED

1. IP/AIS HT-3 12/1 rmb Hit'

2. 
3. IP/EIB DW-7 ""

4. 
5. IP/RMS DW-6

6. 
7. IP/LDI GT-6

8. 
9. LSN/13R BU-5

10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FILE NO. 201-
0357804

DOCUMENT DATE

ABSTRACT
X

FORM 610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

NAC'o Ecranctid
July 1972-FBI/P
ict 1972-Stat/P
CLA-N
DODEI-N

SECRET Filled In
ISR LOG
DATE
NEW
RE-REGISTRATION
UTILIZATION
RE-CHECK
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS SPACE
TO:
TO: SECURITY
TO:
TO:
16 DEC 1974
ISRM NO.
201 NO.
170
17 DEC
NAME
FORM 1797
SECRET
11 DEC 19

SECRET (when Filled In)
ISR LOG
DATE
9 Dec 7-
No Objection to Registrati. DCS reserve
the right to
in accordance
with its
DCID 2,
by mutual agreement if misintended use so
requires.
NEW
RE-REGISTRATION
UTILIZATION
RE-CHECK
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS SPACE
TO: DC!
TO: SECURITY
TO:
TO:
OLTIC COLIVISION
Support Branch/Operational Support Section
Room 900, K. Building - ext. 2268
ISRM NO.
201 NO.
NAME
13 DEC 1974
FORM 1797
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR REGISTRATION IN THE INTERAGENCY SOURCE REGISTER

REQUESTER: Daryl XHXX Geisler LA/CARI

DEA 201- 257804

XX NEW RE-REGISTRATION

NAME (Last, First, Middle)

MEROLA, Joseph Raymond

ALIASES AND OR SPELLING VARIATIONS

UTILIZATION

DATE OF BIRTH

9 Oct 1925

RESIDENCE

135 Dupont Plaza, Miami, Fla

PLACE OF BIRTH

NEW JERSEY

PRESENT EMPLOYER

CITIZENSHIP

U.S.

OCCUPATION

Pilot

Based on LA/Miami 22730 IN 432300, 3 Dec 74 (attached)
Traces sent DIRECTOR 630872, 6 Dec 74 (attached)
Send cards to UFP 872 HVC HLB HTP

IP/AIS TRACE RESULTS

FNA'S LISTED Ref Meat...

IP/EIB REMARKS

NAI TO THAT KNOWN TO THE REQUESTER (630872)

16 DEC 1974

ISR REPLY TO REQUESTER:

18 Dec 74

ISRM NUMBER

39,170

1.  Nothing in addition to that wk known by the requester. Exxx
    For possible further information you are referred to the FBI and the Department of State.

2.  The ISR has no record of a current operational interest in Shник Subject who is hereby registered in the ISR to DEA Miami.

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

FORM 594
1 JUL 74
CABLE SEC DISSEM B 9/64  PLP Sep 103 TOTAL COPIES 15-1 RUN BY 25
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET STAFF PRECEDENCE
ACCESS COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED 9/64 BY A. 1135 1 4
ACTION NIT AF FILE VR DDO, 4/10/AN, 5/085/NAR2 C/OPS 2 5
C/LA6 c/Lsm/mlf 6/150/11/ 3 6
T 617399 EJA292 PAGE 01 IN 432300
TOR: 032226Z DEC 74 LM/H 22730
SECRET 032214Z DEC 74 STAFF
CITE LA/MIAMI 22730
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR,
RYBAT-FMHABYSS PBRAMPART
REFI UFPS-1727, 25 OCT 74

1. PREASE PROVIDE PRIORITY TRACES ON THE FOLLOWING
   DEA NARCOTICS SOURCE AND REGISTER IN THE INTER-AGENCY
   SOURCE REGISTER (ISR)1
   JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA (201-257804)
   DOB: 9 OCT 25 IN NEW JERSEY
   U.S. CITIZEN
   OCCI PILOT
   ADDI 135 DUPONT PLAZA, MIAMI. FL.
   LOCATION OF USE: COLOMBIA AND HAITI

2. PER REF, ATT. NO. 2 PLS PROVIDE PRIORITY
   TRACES ON DEA NARCOTICS SOURCE ORLANDO
   BATISTA VIERA, AND ADVISE IF REGISTERED IN
   ISR.

3. FILE: 220-11-111 200-11-11/17. E2, IMPDET
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

DO DOCUMENT EXTRACT..

THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION CONCERNING THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201
DOSSIER HAS BEEN EXTRACTED FROM ANOTHER OFFICIAL DO FILE.
PERSONS PERFORMING NAME TRACES ARE CAUTIONED THAT THE DOCU-
MENT FROM WHICH THIS EXTRACT WAS PREPAPED CONTAINS ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION, PERTAINING TO THE SUBJECT AND SHOULD BE REQUESTED
FROM LP/FILES..

MEROLA, JOSEPH RAYMOND 200-011-011/19
201-0257804 LMIM-22730
SEX M DOB 09 OCT 25 03 OFC 74
POB USA, NJ
CIT USA
OCC PILOT

PES USA, FLA, MIAMI, 135 DUPONT PLAZA. TRACES
DEA NARCS

DATE 05 MAR 75 COPS CARD 09231716

It1-1257804

SECRET E2 INPOET CL BY 054979


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

12 JUN 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Lucien E. Conein
Acting Chief, Special Operations and
Field Support Staff
Office of Intelligence
Drug Enforcement Administration

VIA: Mr. John Warner
Chief, International Intelligence Division

SUBJECT: Name Trace

REFERENCE: Memorandum, Same Subject, SEC-IGI-74-0037,
dated June 5, 1974

1. The matter of Joseph R. Mercla (Reference) has been discussed between Mr. Richard Kobakoff of your office and Mr. Stanley Archenhold of this office. Mr. Merola has never worked for this Agency, although we are aware he has made such claims on a number of previous instances.

2. It is suggested that you contact the Federal Bureau of Investigation for information concerning Merola.

Seymour R. Bolten
Special Assistant for
Narcotics Control Operations

DONC 74-052

THIS DOCUMENT IS NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED ABROAD OR
OUTSIDE THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE RECEIVING AGENCY
WITHOUT PERMISSION OF THE ORIGINATOR

EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF
Ε. Ο. 11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY: 5 B (2)
DECLASSIFICATION DATE IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE
CLASSIFIED BY 003604

201-25784


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SEUREI

DONC 74-052

DDO/OPS/NARCOG:S.Archenhold:el

COORDINATION: /S/(622)
WH/NARC

12
DATE

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
1 - WH/NARC
1 - 201-257804
1 - DDO/NARCOG DONC File

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

DEPT OF JUSTICE DOCUMENT
DATE: 5 JUNE 1974
SUBJECT: NAME TRACE
CLASSIFICATION: SECRET
FILE: NONE GIVEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, San Salvador

FROM: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: DAMEMB SAN SALVADOR 0048, 5 February 1974

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Headquarters requested LRERGO traces on Larry A. Carr, because of his business association with Joseph R. Merola.

Trace results were negative.

MAD
Marilyn A. DAKOSKI

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. & 1 - COS, San Salvador

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 031685

![RECORD COPY stamp]

---

|            |
| ---------- |
| 1 - Chrono |
| 1 - IP/AN  |



---

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HSSW-3154

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DATE: typed 1 April 1974

ROIS FILE NUMBER: ✓201-257804

ORIGINATING:

OFFICE: WH/2/GS

BY: Patti Burke

TYPIST: mll

EXT: 1454

COORDINATING:

OFFICERS NAME: George Colman

OFFICERS NAME: James Lawler


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

ATTH : Chief, WR/2
David L. Smock
Chief, Domestic Collection Divisio

Jossye E. Lorola
REF : Your Manorandus of II brch 1974



F-9-2849
033-559-74
22 March 1974

1.  For your information, subject has been a volunteer source since 1961. DCD is avare of his unsavory ricord, but he has from tins-to-time produced information of interest.

2.  DCD vishes to advise you, however, that we have brokan cff contact with brola. Should to contact DCD agata, we are coligated to listen politaly, take down his information for trandtial to the appropriate aras desk, and make absolutely no prosises for future contact.

3.  Please direct further inquiriss to Mr. Evan B. Azes, DC1/3upport Branch/Operaticcal Support Section, Room 910, Key Puilding, extension 2263.

EVAN B. AMЕЗЬ
cc: Services Branch (Control)

FILE: HH-25826

JACKSCH R.. SORTON

SLO

DOCET CL BY 010650-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

DEPT OF STATE DOCUMENT
DATE: 19 MARCH 1974
SUEJECT: PATTERSON CORPORATION (CENTRAL
AMERICAN AEROSCAPE)
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
NO FILE GIVEN

MEROLA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

11 March 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR: Domestic Collection Division

ATTENTION: Hr. Shaun P. Ryan

SUBJECT: Joseph R. MEROLA

REFERENCE: HH 25826, 8 January 1974

1. On 10 January 1974 the HH/2/GS desk received the referenced memorandum from the Domestic Collection Division indicating the Miami field office had been in contact with one Joseph R. MEROLA. MEROLA had just returned from a business trip to El Salvador; and he reported that a friend of his had identified a Mr. Gremillion in the Political Section of the American Embassy in San Salvador as a suspect CIA representative. Headquarters traces on Joseph R. MEROLA Indicated that on several occasions in the past MEROLA had claimed that he was CIA agent. The Chief of Station, the Mr. Grewillion referred to above, was recently questioned regarding any Embassy contact with MEROLA while the latter was in San Salvador. The COS stated that both within the Embassy community and at social functions MEROLA had frequently referred to his contact with the CIA, past and present. He also volunteered this infor- mation to a former Station contact.

2. In light of the above, it would appear that MEROLA had taken advantage of his agency contacts in an inappropriate manner to the potential embarrassment of the San Salvador Station. we would, accordingly, appreciate that this be given due consideration in your assessment of the advantage of your continued contact with hto.

David L. Smock
C/WH/2

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 509407


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TRANSMI..AL SLĪP

JO:
WH2GS-Patti

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS:

Reply firms
State

FROM:
OPS/LSN

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION

FORM NO 241
1 FEB 59 REPLACES FORM 36-6 WHICH MAY BE USE (47)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SPEED LETTER

TO: OPS/LIAISON

ATTN:

REPLY REQUESTED: YES   NO

DATE: 6 February 1974

LETTER NO:

FROM: WH/2/GS

Request Dept. of State Passport Office biographic information on Larry A. CARR, U.S. citizen, currently in El Salvador negotiating on behalf of the Patterson Corp. to build a helicopter plant.

REPLY

Patti Burke WH/2/GS

SIGNATURE

DATE

SIGNATURE

FORM 1831 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

DEPT OF STATE DOCUMENT (PASSPORT DIVISION)
DATE: 20 FEBRUARY 1974
SUBJECT: LARRY ALTON CARR
CLASSIFICATION: NONE
FILE: NONE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

STATE DEPT DOCUMENTS:

DATE: 13 FEBRUARY 1974
SUBJECT: PATTERSON CORPORATION (CENTRAL
AMERICAN AEROSPACE)
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
NO FILE # GIVEN (DOC#: SAN SALV. 0568)

DATE: 5 FEBRUARY 1974
SUBJECT: PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT
(PATTERSON CORP.)
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
NO FILE # GIVEN (DOC #: SAN SAL. 0048)

DATE: 5 FEBRUARY 1974
SUBJECT: PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT
(PATTERSON CORP.)
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENT.LAL
NO FILE GIVEN
DOCUMENT #: SAN SALVADOR 0448


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

ratti,

We have cent a private channel letter to the COS on this matter, *Fotingxata* asking at the end for comments as to whether M-ROLA is "embarrassing" the Station or CIA generally by talking so much about his CIA connections. If his re-ly is in the affirmative, I it will robably be best for you to draft a note to *Borz DCD* suggesting that he somehow be silenced, -erha-s by their withdrawing from contact with then since it is obviously something that he brags about and otherwise tried to take advantage of gtc.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Matt MacVane, DCD officer in Miami, met with Joseph R. MEROLA on 15 January 1974; at which time MEROLA identified the friend in San Salvador who had identified Mr. Gremillion in the American Embassy in San Salvador as a CIA representative. MEROLA also provided the names of two women employed in the Embassy who were xapaxtat involved in compromising situations with both Americans and local nationals. MEROLA identified the two women as Nancy SHALLOT and Delia OBESA. MEROLA was met again on 17 January 1974 axaifax*x*axdataxminaxxxxxathaxxassisiex at which time he provided the name of a third woman in the Embassy, Gloria, who has also been involved in compromising situations. Upon qu*ex inquiring Headquarters personnel who had recently returned from San Salvador, the above identities were confirmed; all three are American citizens assigned to the Embassy in San Salvador.

Above is a note deted 24 January 1974 from ratti Burke, WH/2/GS/IA, based on information received orally from DCD.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

SPEED LETTER

|                |                 |
| -------------- | --------------- |
|                | DATE            |
| CILY REGUESIたし | 23 January 1974 |
| VES            | LETTER ६०.      |
|                | OSS-172-74      |
| TO:            | Chief, WH/2/GS  |
|                | (3 B 4402 Hqs.) |
| ATTN:          | Patty Burke     |
| FROM:          | DCD/SB/OSS      |
|                | SPRyan/ds       |

SUBJECT: Case 61401 - Joseph Merola

On 18 January 1974, our Miami Field Office advised us of the name of a third person reportedly involved in potentially compromising situations who works at the Embassy. This person was identified as "Gloria" by our source. This information passed verbally to El Salvador Desk Officer on 18 January 1974.

E-2 IMPDET CL & 010650 SHAUN P. RYAN Even mer for

REPLY                                                                        SIGNATUR.

DATE

SECRET

RFTION TO ORIGINATOR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

STATE DEPT DOCUJANT
DATE: 22 JANUARY 1974
SUBJECT: PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
DOCUMENT: SAN SALV 0256


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

- ☐ UNCLASSIFIED
- ☐ HAL
  USE ONLY
- ☐ CONFI ATIAL
- ☐ -SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Ophanal)

Case 61401 - CIA Operative in El Salvador

FROM: DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVIN
LAGENSION

Support Branch/Operational Support Section
NO

Poom 300, Key Euilding - ext. 2268

Mr. Shaun P. Ryan

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

DATE

18 January 1974

|                    | RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICERS   SPETTIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom  to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment) |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------- | -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.                 |          |           |                      | The attached is for your information and possible interest.                                             |
| WH/2/GS            |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| Atta. Patty. Burke |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 3 B 4402 ilqs.     |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 2.                 |          |           |                      | (OSS-142-74)                                                                                            |
| 3.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 5.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 7.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 9.                 |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 10.                |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                |          |           |                      |                                                                                                         |

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 00022

FORM

3-42

610

USE PREVIOUS
EDITIONS

- ☐ SECRET
- ☐ CONFIDENTIAL
- ☐ INTERNAL
  USE ONLY
- ☐ UNCLASSIFIED

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# SECRET/SENSITIVE

OSS-142-74
18 January 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Case 61401 - CIA Operative in El Salvador

KEYS :
A.) MIM-006-74, 4 January 1974
B.) TWX DCD/Washington 98860, 16 January 1974
C.) Ryan/MacVaze telecon 16 January 1974
D.) Ryan/MacVane telecon 17 January 1974
E.) Ryan/Mainwaring telecon 17 January 1974
F.) TWX DCD/Miami 12475, 17 January 1974
G.) TWX DCD/Miami 12476. 17 January 1974

1. One of our sources in Miami, Joseph Merola, revealed the name and position of an individual reported to be an Agency official in El Salvador to Matt MacVane during the course of an interview on 21 December 1973. This was reported in MIM-006-74 4 January 1974. This report was forwarded to the El Salvador Desk on 8 January 1974. On 16 January 1974 the Desk requested that DCD obtain the name of the individual mentioned in this memorandum who said he knew a CIA officer in the Embassy. This request was passed by telecon and TWX to MacVane by Ryan on 16 January 1974. The El Salvador Desk also questioned the reliability of our source, Joseph Merola, at this time and requested we query Miami as to his reliability.

2. On 17 January 1974 at the request of MacVane, Ryan visited the El Salvador Desk to ascertain their objections to our source, known to us as a convicted felon. Desk objections stemmed from a 1964 report which indicated that Merola had informed persons that he was a "CIA agent". Further conversation elicited the fact that Merola had again made this statement in 1973 at an Embassy function. We advised the Desk that DCD was well aware of Merola's criminal background but that he had provided DCD with reliable reports in the past unrelated to his own "pursuits".

3. The El Salvador desk confirmed the fact that the individual mentioned by Merola's informant as being a CIA officer was in fact such. Ryan advised MacVane of this per telecon on 17 January 1974. MacVane and Mainwaring told Ryan they were sending two cables relating to this case. The first would provide the name of the person who reportedly knew the CIA official. The second provided the names of two women employed in the Embassy who were reportedly involved in

SECRET/SENSITIVE

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 010650


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET/SENSITIVE

compromising situations with both Americans and locai nationals. This latter cable was requested after the El Salvador desk officer advised that all avenues and possible leads were to be pursued to determine who leaked the information relating to the CIA official. These two nares (phonetically spelled) were provided in the second cable by Miami. All of the information received in these cabies was passed via secure phone to the El Salvador dosk by Ryan upon receipt.

4. MacVae advised Ryan via telecon that he anticipated meeting with Joseph Merola at 1000 on 17 January to address further matters concerned with this case. MacVane advired ran that he yould forward such information as soon as possible.

SKION P. RYAN

cc: Miami Field Office
cc: BH/2/08
cc: Sensitive Control Officer

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET 171845Z JAN 74 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 12476

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: SUPPORT BRANCH/03S (S.RYAN)

SUBJ: CASE 61481

REF: 00A(5) 322/82566-74

THE IDENTITIES OF THE TWO GIRLS WHO WERE THE SUBJECT OF OUR TELECON ARE:

NANCY SHALLOT

DELIA OBESA

BOTH SPELLINGS ARE PHONETIC, BUT SHOULD BE IDENTIFIABLE.

ONE IS SUPPOSEDLY SECRETARY TO MR. TAYLOR. E2 IMPDET CL BY 210658

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

SECRET

SECRET 171845Z JAN 74 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 12476

DCD/WASHINGTON

ATTN: SUPPORT BRANCH/OSS (S.HYAN)

SUBJ: CASE 61421

REF: OUA(S) 322/82566-74

THE IDENTITIES OF THE TWO GIRLS WHO WERE THE SUBJECT OF

OUR TELECON ARE:

NANCY SHALLOT

DELIA OBESA

BOTH SPELLINGS ARE PHONETIC, BUT SHOULD BE IDENTIFIABLE.

ONE IS SUPPOSEDLY SECRETARY TO MR. TAYLOR. E2 IMPDET CL BY 812652

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE OMF

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE THE OROUP

STAFF 172306Z

CONF: WHS INFO: FILE //f, DCD,

MESSAGE DEFERENCE NUMBER

DIRECTOR 502254

DISSEM BY: 29

TO: PRIORITY SAN SALVADOR INFO UH/MIAMI.

EREFS: A. SAN SALVADOR 20685 |IN 13468481-

B. WH/MIAMI 20664 |IN 135313=*

C. WH/MIAMI 20685 |IN 137730***

1. FOLLOWING INFO IN ADDITION TRACES REF B: JOSEPH RAYMOND

MEROLA (201-257804). PER DBA 68712, 13 APR 64, SUBJ CLAIMED HE
CIA AGENT AND ALLEGED CIA OBTAINED PRESIDENTIAL PARDON FIVE YEAR
PRISON SENTENCE FOR RUNNING GUNS CUBA. IN ADDITION CLAIMED CIA
ISSUED FASSPORT IN NAME MICHAEL JOSEPH MEROLA FOR TRAVEL
CENTRAL AMERICA.

2. PER HAS RECORDS. MEROLA NOT CIA AGENT, BUT HAS BEEN DCD
   CONTACT SINCE EARLY SIXTIES.

3. 21 DEC 73 MEROLA CONTACTED DCB. MIAMI TO ADVISE HE RECENTLY
   SPOKE WITH FRIEND IN SAN SALVADOR WHO WORKS FOR ANSESAL. FRIEND
   ADVISED MEROLA NOT GO US EMBASSY SAN SALVADOR TO SEE A MAN NAMED
   GREMILLION BECAUSE GREMILLION, WHO US EMBASSY POLITICAL SECTION
   OFFICER UNDER SURVEILLANCE ON SUSPICION OF BEING CIA REP SAN
   SALVADOR. MEROLA TOLD FRIEND HE NEITHER KNEW NOR WOULD HAVE CAUSE TO

DATE:

ORIG:.

UNITI

EXT:

RECORD COPY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRONIBITED

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY 031685


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 PAGES 82 2

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF DIRECTOR DISSEN BY:

CONF: INFO: FILE 502254 PER

SEE SUCH A MAN. FRIEND TOLD MEROLA HE ONLY TELLING HIM FOR HIS OWN
GOOD BECAUSE IF MEROLA SAW GREMILLION, MEROLA WOULD BECOME A SUSPECT
CIA AGENT AS WELL.

4. DCD MIAMI RECONTACTED MEROLA 15 JANUARY DETERMINE ABOVE
   IDENTITY "FRIEND" IN SAN SALVADOR. FROCDIEND IDENTIFIED AS
   GUILLERMO P. O BEE DE R, PRESIDENT INSAFI, MARRIED TO SECRETARY AT
   US EMBASSY, CURRENTLY ON MATERNITY LEAVE.

5. MEROLA TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL INFO AT MTG WITH DCD MIAMI
   17 JAN 74. WILL ADVISE.

6. FILE: 201-257804. E2 IMPDET-H

UH COMMENT: *REQUESTED HQS TRACES JOSEPH MEROLA, WHO CELAIMED TO BE
AERONAEUTICAL CONSULTANT WITH PATTERSON AIRCRAFT
COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA

**UH/MIAMI TRACE REPLY

***NEGATIVE SLIGO BTRACES

DATE: 17 JAN 74 HDCD SHAUN RYAN (DRAFT)
ORIG: PATTI-BURKE UH/PEEMS W. LAYBOURNE (DRAFT)
UNIT: WH/2/6S C/WH/COG O. BATHE (DRAFT)
EXT: 1868


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

CABLE SEC DISSEN BY

TOTAL COPIES 16-1

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED: BLOTTED

STAFF

ACTION UNIT
N. FILE .VR. *colar! clips OPS/NAR.*

ACTION #

T 889883

PAGE 01-21
IN 137730
TOR-11514512 JAN 74
WMIM 22685

SECRET 1421122 JAN 74 STAFF

CITE WH/MIAMI 22685

TO: SAN SALVADOR INFO DIRECTOR.

REF: A. SAN SALVADOR 28665 (IN 134684)

B. WH/MIAMI 22654 (CIN 135313)

1. NO ADDITIONAL SLIGO TRACES ON JOSEPH M E R C L A.

2. FILE: 238-11-11/3. E-2, IMPDET.

SECRET

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

STATE DEPT DOCUMENT
SUBJECT: PROPOSED HELICOPTER/AIRCRAFT PLANT
DATE: 17 JANUARY 1974
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
DOCUMENT #: SAN SALVADOR C0193
NO FILE # GIVEN.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

CABLE BEL DISSEN BY 42
PERSON/LHIT NOTIFIED,
TOTAL COPIES 16-2 AUN BY
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY O
ISOVING OFFICE 13 P
ADVANCE COPY ISSUEMOTICO
ACTION UNIT
STAFF
LWWH & OPS/NAR 2
7903593
PAGE 21
TOR11121192 JAN 74.
HMIM 20664
SECRET 1120592 JAN 74 STAFF
CITE WH/MIAMI 20664
TO: SAN SALVADOR INFO DIRECTOR,
REFI SAN SALVADOR 20685/(ZN-134684)

1. JOSEPH R. MEROLA, DPOB 9 OCT 1925,
   TURTLE CREEK, PA, STATION CARDS FROM PERIOD 1959-1963

INDICATE HE EX-CONVICT, NOTORIOUS SMUGGLER. GUNRUNNER AND
GENERAL TROUBLE-MAKER, CARDS TO LNERGO REPORTS INDICATE HE
WAS INVOLVED IN PANAMA INVASION PLAN IN 1959, ANDIN
HAITIAN INVASION PLANS IN 1958 AND 1963. IN 1959,
HE WAS UNDER INDICTMENT IN PAL FOR INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION
OF STOLEN ARMS. IN 1960, HE WAS PRINCIPAL IN
PROPOSED CUBAN COUNTERFEIT PESC DEAL. LNERGO WAS CONTACTED
IN 1961, AND INDICATED THAT ALTHOUGH HE
HAD LONG RECORD, HE UNDOUBTEDLY COULD SPEAK AUTHORITATIVELY
ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, ALSO HE WAS INTERESTED
IN PROVIDING CONTRABAND
SENATOR, AND ATTEMPTED * RESTRICTION*
WHICH PLACED ON HIM AFTER CON OR CLADESTINELY
RINGING IN TO U.S. THE SOY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

CABLE SE DISSEM BY__________PER__________ TOTAL COPIES__________RUN BY__________REPRODUCTION BY O
ISSUING OFFICE IS P
PERSONAL/SIT NOTIFIED__________ S E C R E T__________STAFF
ACTION AL__________RF FILE VR
ACTION #
803593 PAGE 02-02 IN 135313
TURI112119Z JAN 74 WMIM 20664

FULGENCIO BATISTA, OR FOR CHARGE THAT HE INVOLVED IN THEFT OF GUNS FROM NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY.

2. SUBJECT NOT LISTED 1973 MIAMI TELEPHONE BOOK. LATEST ADDRESS IN CARDS IS: 2218 NORTH BAY RD, MIAMI BEACH, FLA. HE WAS VISITED AT THIS ADDRESS IN 1961 BY MBR OF SLIGO. ORGANIZATION, WHO DESCRIBED HOME AS "PALATIAL".

3. ALTHOUGH WE HAVE NO RECENT INFO ON SUBJECT, SUGGEST THAT HIS PLANS ESTABLISH HELICOPTER PLANT IN SAN SALVADOR MAY HAVE SHADY SIDE, POSSIBLY SMUGGLING ARMS OR LUCRATIVE NARCOTICS TRAFFIC.

4. SINCE SUBJ IS U.S. CIT, REQUEST AGOVE INFO NOT BE PASED. LIAISON ON OTHER U.S. GOVT AGENCIES WITHOUT HQS APPROVAL.

5. WILL FORWARD PERTINENT SLIGO TRACES.

6. FILE: 200-11-11/3; E-2, IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 28 PER.

TOTAL COPIES 12

SECRET

TUN.BY

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED: PLOTTED

STAFF

ACTION UNIT

RF FILE VR

1

4

WH8

2

5

ALTION

INFO

3

6

T 832260

PAGE 01-01

IN 134684

TOR: 111322Z JAN 74

SALV 20685

SECRET 182325Z JAN 74 STAFF

CITE SAN SALVADOR 20685

TO: DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI.

501-0557804

1. REQUES. TRACES ON MR. JOSEPH R. MEROLA, AGE 48;

BORN PENNSYLVANIA, RESIDENCE OS MIAMI SHORES, FLORIDA.

MEROLA CLAIMS BE AERONAUTICAL CONSULTANT WITH PATTERSON
AIRCRAFT COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, HE SUPPOSEDLY TRYING
NEGOTIATE DEAL TO ESTABLISH HELICOPTER PLANT EL SALVADOR.
DURING TALKS AT SOCIAL PARTIES WITH EMBASSY PERSONNEL HE
INDICATED PREVIOUS WORK WITH AKHERALD.

2. FILE: DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

![Signature]

SECRET
RECORD COPY

![Stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: CIA Operative in El Salvador

FROM: DOMESTIC COLLECTION DIVISION
Support Branch Operational Support Section
Room 900, Key Building - ext. 2263
Mr. Shaun P. Ryan

HH-25826

8 January 1974

TO:

1. C/WH/2/GS
   Attn. Kathy Kaurer 10 JAN 1974
   3 B 4402 Hqs.

2. 
3. O/C/8/4/2 11 JAN 1974

4. 
5. C/4/4/2 11 JAN 1974

6. C/WH/2/G.S

7. WH/2/65/Patti

8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
The attached Memorandum HIM-006-74, is for your interest and retention. Please advise us at your earliest convenience of any additional interest or requirements in this matter. Thank you.

cc: CI/OP/WH

- action -

(a) file call DCD to find out what Message - for, etc.

(b) and tours there ask Misula with the secret service men.

(c) then send missile field. FYI & Station.

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 007622

Suggest an examinine the matter.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Chief, Domestic Collection Division

ATTN : Support Branch/035 (JGross)

FROM : Chief, Miami Field Office

SUBJECT: CIA Cerative în El Salvador

MIM-006-74

DATE: 4 January 1974

1. Joe Merola contacted the Mami Office on 21 December 1973 to explain that he recently had spoken with a friend of his in San Salvador, El Salvador. The friend, who allegedly works for the El Salvadorạn Secret Service, told Herola that when he (Merola) comes to El Salvador not to go to the US Embassy to see a man named Vermillion. The friend told Kerola that Vermillion is the Commercial Attache at the embassy and in under surveillance because he is suspected of being the CIA man in San Salvador. Merola told his friend that he did not know a man named Vermillion, nor would he ever have cause to sce such a man. The friend then told Merola that he was only telling him for his own good, and that if he (Merola) were to see this Vermillion that Merola would become a suspected CIA agent as well.

2. Verola said that he was passing this information to us in case we did indeed have a man in San Salvador by the name of Vermillion. Merola has been a contact of the Miami Field Office for some ten years, and during that period he has passed to this office some very reliable information.

BRUCE E. MAINWARING

NCMacVane: pav

E 2 DMPLET CL BY 010650

Buy U S. Savings Bands Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

SECRET

4 February 1964

Chief, Security Branch

Greg Maruca

785

Lt. Van Buskirk, Metro Intelligence

To pass info and receive advice.

0930 hours, 4 Feb 64,
telephonically

Lt. Van Buskirk advised that Clifford V. CONNELL, who was arrested about two months ago for illegal possession of aboutl tons of dynamite will claim as his defense that he was performing a patriotic service for his country by working with Joseph Raymond MEROLA who has on numerous occasions claimed to be working for KUBARK. The trail date has not yet been set. Others involved the same case: Remer Estuez ODOM, and Harold WIDDEN. MEROLA was born 10/9/25, Pittsburgh, Pa. and posseses FBI #4989299. Van Buskirk wanted to know if any of the above are working for KUBARK. Results of Station traces are attached.

> Charlie McKay said "Joe has heard of on intellgence
> duil, ngormant type not an agent, not on payroll and not
> in position claim employment". McKay does not want to
> lose the sanca of mfo. He said one John Alie French
> Wasteanas, trying to overthrow Invalin govt Haiti which
> might account for dynamite cache.

Advise 00. Advise Van Buskirk that the above individuals are not working for KUBARK.

00 Admed 1515 has 4 FeB By C.O.S. Cloo said to tell police Subject (Merda) has been of interest in part as informant - mot

Greg Maruca

Metro

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

Associated with KUBARK AND we are not AWARE Subjet's
present Activities.

VAN Buskirk -> Advised above of above.

Van Baolrents said has stated he purported have somebody
in court from oo office ready to deny claim
of Cemmelle as he intends use this as defence. C.O.S.
born so advised.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

From Mitch Lawrence
Regarding Joe Merola: Information passed on to Lt. Van Buskirk per our discussion. Van Buskirk advised that we should have somebody ready to go to court and to deny the claim of Connel that he was working on our behalf. The date for the trial is not as yet set and Van Buskirk said there is no hurry, but he would like to know whether or not we would have somebody there in as much as this person intends to base his defense on the basis of his working for us.

1045


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)