# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

> [Figure: Dispatch form with processing actions marked.]

**DISPATCH**

TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: TYPIC/WHAPROK/ANTRUNK/Operational
ANTRUNK Progress Report for Period 1-30 November 1964

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES: Action Required: FYI.

1. OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

A. Preparations were underway in early November to dispatch ANTRUNK-13 to Madrid in mid-November to cement the recruitment of AKTEUNK-19. These plans fell through when the Madrid Station notified Headquarters and WAVE that their workload would not allow sufficient case officer time to handle AMTEUNK-13 in Madrid at this time. FAVE agreed to postpone ANTRUNK-13's trip to Madrid several weeks until Madrid Station's workload abated somewhat.

B. The prospects of finalizing the recruitment of ANTRUNK-19 increased however with the receipt at WAVE of another open letter from AMTRUNK-19, this one mailed from Mexico City in mid-November. In ANTRUNK-19's first letter, mailed from Montreal in mid-October, he suggested using a friend in Mexico City as a cut-out to initiate a channel of communications between himself and ANTRUNK-13. In his second letter, AMTRUNK-19 stated that he had wade the necessary arrangements with his friend in Mexico. Although WAVE, Headquarters and MΕΧΙ traces on ANTRUNK-19's friend, IDEN A, were fragmentary, Mexico Station stated that IDEN A was well-known to one of its PBRUMEN assets who vouched for IDEN A's loyalties. WAVE intends to send an innocuous letter to ANTRUNK-19 in ANTRUNK-13's handwriting to keep the channel with A-19 alive. ANTRUNK-19 appears eager to see ANTRUNK-13 again and has stated in both letters that he has considerable information to discuss in detail. It is well realized that this open letter channel is far from ideal but it is hoped that in early January 1965 ANTRUNK-13 can re- contact ANTRUNK-19 and provide him with a system of S/W

Attachment: USC IDEN Sheet

Distribution: 3- Addressee, w/att. USC

> [Figure: Handwritten annotation "LASH-1 file"]!

Date Typed: 10 Dec 64

Dispatch Symbol and Number: UFGA-19045

Headquarters File Number: 19-6-84/3-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-19045

*   as well as debrief him thoroughly and levy PI and MHAPRON requirements upon him.

C. In mid-November after the postponement of AMTRUNK-13's Madrid trip, preparations began to launch Operation AMTRUNK X in early December. This operation would attempt to re-organize the ratline to and from Havana and the AMTRUNK infil area for the future use of infiltrated MHAPRON recruiters and other agent assets as necessary. Secondary objectives are to bring into the infil area a cache of weapons and explosives for AMTRUNK-10/AMLASH-1 and to teach a system of S/W to one or more assets in the area. The team is to be composed of the same four individuals who participated in Operation AMTRUNK IX in October 1964: AMAGREE-1, Team Leader; AHAKA-1, Radio Operator; and AMTRUNK-16 and -20, Guides. It was decided to shelve the V-20 as the Intermediate Craft (IC) for this operation and substitute a 17' Johnson boat with twin 75 hp. outboard motors which could maneuver through shallower water and which could be more easily camouflaged. The basic reason for this decision was the fact that December through February are the low-water months in the AMTRUNK operational area. During this shallow water season, the heavier, wider V-20 can only be used in the deeper and more heavily-guarded infiltration canals.

D. Through the combined efforts of AMICE-14, the AMTRUNK P/A, and AMAGREE-1 and AMAKA-1, four radio operator candidates, to be trained for future use in PM operations, were recruited during the reporting period.

E. Recruiting for MHAPRON infiltration candidates continued during the reporting period. One prospective infiltree was recruited during the month of November and the case officer was active in assessing and debriefing two other candidates. It is hoped that by March 1965 one or more of these candidates will be trained and prepared for infiltration for clandestine MHAPRON recruiting. In large measure this will depend upon the success of Operation AMTRUNK X in re-organizing the ratline to and from Havana.

F. S/W Message No. 13 was sent to AMTRUNK-11 in response to his Message No. 15 in which he stated that both OWVL receivers were now in his possession. WAVE Message No. 13 to AMTRUNK-11 gave directions for the disposition of the OWVL receivers and the activation of OWVL contact with both AMTRUNK-11 and AMTRUNK-10.

## INTELLIGENCE REPORTING

None

## OPERATIONAL EXPENDITURES

Salaries:

|            |           |
| ---------- | --------- |
| AMICE-14   | $400.00   |
| AMAGREE-1  | $300.00   |
| AMAKA-1    | $250.00   |
| AMTRUNK-13 | $300.00   |
| AMTRUNK-16 | $225.00   |
| AMTRUNK-20 | $200.00   |
|            | $1,675.00 |


Mileage (AMICE-14 and AMAGREE-1):

$202.40

Household Expenses:

61.97

GRAND TOTAL

$1,939.37


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH BYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-19045

## 4. PROJECTED PLANS

Primary tasks to be accomplished are the mounting of Operation AKTRUNK X in early December, the dispatching of ANTRUNK-13 to Madrid to finalize the recruitment of AKTEUNK-19, and the staging of another contingent of MILAPRON recruiters for infiltration in March 1865.

![Signature of Andrew K. REUTERAN]
Andrew E. REUTERAN

FORM
3.60
53α
USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
CLASSIFICATION
PAGE NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT
TO UFGA-19045

IDEN Sheet

IDEN A Dr. Francisco BORGES

M. Escobedo No. 692-16

Mexico 5, D. F.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)