# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FILE RID

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

CDO INDEX

FILE IN CS FILE NO.

SECRET/RYBAT

![routing information]

DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR

INFO: VR FILE: DC/WN/K5, D/ECUE 4,

CONFI: 5023 RID COPY

C/AF4401

DATE AND TIME FILED

(ELITE)

REFERENCE NOMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

16 10 16Z CITE DIRECTOR 32999

TO JHAVE

LYNS CHAPPIE WITHERUSH PERNJEN SECUR

REF: JHAVE 2812 (IH 86315) *

BASED ON REVEW OF INTO DEVELOPED BY WOBOEZ IVESTICATION,

SURJECT REP NOF CONSIDERED SUITABLE FOR FUTURE USE CY WITELNOSH.

COSIVIRL RETEST LOT DESIRED. CA BEING CANCELLED.

END OF MESSAGE

*Requested Mars, reconsider use of Antonio (2010) Vazquez on WITHRUSH

SOD/AB/G3 Jin Smith (telecom)

SOD/AR/023 3 Larry Murthy (D)

CI/OA Dick Huffner (telecon)

03/103/ID Lou Vasaly (telecon)

![signature of R.J. Goodhart]

R.J. Goodhart

* Chier, Support Steff, EOD

![signature of Sidney D. Stambrige]

Sidney D. Stambrige

Chier, Security/Cover, SOD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

![stamp with text SECRET/RYBAT]

![stamp with text exempt from general declassification]

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

REQUEST FOR CANCELLATION

TO: CHIEF, CI/OA

SUBJECT'S NAME (Pseudo, crypt or true may be used) SOTO-Vazquez, Antonio

FROM: SOD W. Wainwright 1175

CI/OA NO. 90192
201 NO. 294544
NAME SHOWN IS X TRUE PROJECT WITHRUSH CRYPT

DATE OF BIRTH 20 August 1934
PLACE OF BIRTH Hava, Cuba
AGENT'S SERVICE RECORD

REASON(S) FOR CANCELLATION IS ATTACHED BILL BE FORWARDED

1. It is requested that OA on Subject be canceled as he is of no further operational interest to this office.

Thank you for your assistance in this case.

2. Green List Name Check canceled as of this date.

2 September 1966

SIGNATURE William T. Wainwright

IF SUBJECT IS USED IN ANY CAPACITY, A NEW REQUEST FOR APPROVAL BILL BE SUBMITTED TO CI/OA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

201No. 291544

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, SCD/A3/OPS/3 -- Larry Murphy

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of ____________ SOTO Vasquez, Antonio ____________, for the purpose specified in your request dated 8 December 1965.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/s/ Edward P. Brown
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 14 December 1965 jab

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

PERSONAL RECORD QUESTIONNAIRE
PART 11 - OPERATIONAL INFORMATION

INSTRUCTIONS TO CASE OFFICER

1. This form must be filled in by the case officer of appropriate authority on the basis of the best available information. It not to be shown to the subject.
2. Normally, headquarters will be unable to issue an approval untess requenter furnishes answers to all questione in PRO parts 1 and 11. However, in an emergency provisional approval may be obtained by complying with the applicable provisions of FR 10-215. paragraphe 60. 8. 12b and 124. Thereafter the usual method to document or complete the case must be followed as and forth in FR 10-215.
3. Three (3) completed copies of PRO part 1 (including copy in subject's handuriting, if possible) and to0 (2) coa. pleted copies of this form must be sent to headquarters
4. Data acquired later must be sent to headquarters in PRO Forest in too (2) copies.
5. Fill in all items, if information obtainable. If item not applicable write "NA." 11 additional space required for iten, use reverse side of page hoyed to appropriate item number.

1. CRYPTONYM
   T/N Antonio SOTO Vazquez
2. PSEUDONYM

SECTION I
CONTACT AND. DEVELOPMEDIT

1. INDICATE HOW, THEN, WHERE. WHY, AND BY WHOM SUBJECT WAS FIRST CONTACTED OR DEVELOPED.

Subject submitted job application to Roberto Medell. (principal agent, WITHRUSH, Miami, Fla.) on 25 March 1965 for job as WITHRUSH pilot.

2. INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT COULD BE TURNED OVER QUICKLY AND IN A SCOURE MANNER TO ANY RESPONSIBLE CASE OFFICER FOR HANDLING. IF SO. INDICATE TO WHOW,

Subject could be turned over to any resonsible case officer, A knowledge of Spanish and aviation would be most helpful.

3. LIST OTHER CASE OFFICERS WHO HAVE HANDLED SUBJECT OR SUCH HE ANONS DR A GIVE NAMES BY WHICH THEY HAVE OLLA ANON

George N. Sohl known to Subject as Gerald Saunders.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

SECTION 11
MOTIVATION. AND CONTROL

1. ESTIMATE SUBJECT'S MOTIVATION. (Be detailed, if possible cite evidence Do cet use stuck conetul auch ...)

Financial, desire to maintain flight status, and to a losser degree, political (anti-Castro, anti-communist).

2. INDICATE WHAT CONTROL. IF ANY, EXISTS OVER THE SUBJECT. (If no control, or if there is a lack of real control explain.)

No real control exists over Subject other than financial. His resident alien status could offer a factor of control if authorization were grauted for this maneuver.

SECTION 111
COVER

1. COVER USED BY SUBJECT AND CASE OFFICER IN THEIR MEETINGS. The principal agent represents himself as an employee of the WAVE case officer, who in turn is documented as an agent of the Gov't of the Republic o of the Congo however, although no U.S. Gov't interest is overtly manifested, it is realistic to assume that Subject suspects U.S. Gov't collusion in, if not outright sponsorship of the operatic n.

2. COVER USED BY SUBJECT IN OBTAINING HIS INFORMATION AND IN CONTACTING HIS INFORMANTS.

NA

3. INDICATE SERVICE FOR WHICH SUBJECT THANKS HE (Will work) (Is working).

In all probability Subject is or will become aware that the GOC air program is under sponsorship by KUBARK,

SECTION IV
INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS AND TRAINING

1. EXPLAIN SUBJECT'S KNOWN PAST OR PRESENT CONNECTION WITH ANY OTHER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. INDICATE THE EXTENT SUCH CONNECTION IS KNOWN OVERTLY.

None known.

2. LIST OTHER INDIVIDUALS (Agents, rafataves. friends) PHO KNOW OF SUCT'S PAF SENT INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIS.

Probably wife.

3. EXPLAIN ANY TRAINING SUBJECT HAS HAD EN CLANDESTINE OPERATIONS,

None known.

SECTION V
COLLABORATION POTENTIAL

1. INDICATE OTHER FORELIN PORER SUBJECT WOULD BE MOST LIKELY TO COLLABORATE WITH ALCAUSE OF HIS IDEOLOGY ON PAST ASSOCIATIONS. EXPLAIN.

None.

2

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

SECTION VI OPERATIONAL USE - CONTACT

1. IF SUBJECT HAS BEEN USED OR CONTACTED BEFORE, INDICATE ACTIVITY IN WHICH HE WAS ENGAGED AND THE TYPE OF INFORMATION HE HAS FURNISHED.

NA

2. INDICATE HOW AND FROM WHOM SUBJECT OBTAINS INFORMATION.

NA

3. INDICATE WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD SUBJECT AS TO THE DISPOSITION OF INFORMATION HE FURNISHES.

NA

4. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED FI OR CI TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

NA

5. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED PP-PM TYPE USE OR DUTIES.

As a pilot only.

SECTION VII PROPOSED LIAISON OR OPERATIONAL ACTIVITY

1. DETAIL SUBJECT'S PROPOSED LIAISON TYPE CONTACT OR OPERATIONAL USE.

A. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT:

NA

B. WHERE SUBJECT IS AN OFFICIAL MEMBER OF AN ODYOKE AGENCY:

NA

SECTION VIII AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT

1. EXPLAIN NATURE OF AGENCY RELATIONSHIP WITH SUBJECT: I.E. TRAINEE, OPPOSITE NUMBER, REMUNERATION, IF ANY: AGENCY PERSONNEL KNOWN TO SUBJECT.

Subject under ostensible contract to GOC, although presumably he knows the project is being sponsored by the U.S. Government.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET

SECTION IX

QUALIFICATIONS FOR OTHER OPERATIONS

1.  INDICATE SPECIAL ABILITIES, TALENTS, OR QUALIFICATIONS POSSESSED BY SUBJECT WHICH COULD CONCEIVABLY BE OF VALUE FOR OTHER OPERATIONS.

He is a qualified fixed-wing and helicopter pilot.

SECTION X

COMMITMENTS

1.  IF IT IS PROPOSED TO PAY SUBJECT A REGULAR SALARY, INDICATE THE WEEKLY AMOUNT, IF PAYMENT TO BE MADE IN EXCHANGE COMMODITIES, SUBSIDY OR OTHER METHOD. SPECIFY AND GIVE DETAILS.

Subject's contract calls for base pay of $800 per month, $10 per flight hour over sixty hours, $10 per flight hour which is considered hazardous. Contract additionally contains life insurance up to $40,000.

2.  EXPLAIN ANY PROMISES, OTHERWISE NOT COVERED HEREIN, MADE TO SUBJECT. (Example: Commitments regarding evacuation of subject and family.)

None known.

SECTION XI

CE AND SECURITY

1.  INDICATE THE FIELD AGENCIES AND FIELD FILES WITH WHICH SUBJECT'S NAME HAS BEEN CHECKED AND THE RESULTS.

WAVE Station, FBI, INS, Credit, Miami Police and Hqs files.

2.  INDICATE OTHER INVESTIGATIVE MEASURES TAKEN TO VERIFY BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FURNISHED BY SUBJECT.

None.

3.  INDICATE WHETHER OR NOT PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL ON OPERATIONAL AP. PROVAL FOR SUBJECT'S USE HAS BEEN PREVIOUSLY OBTAINED.

Yes. POA

4.  DATE APPROVAL OBTAINED

21 May 1965

5.  EVALUATE SUBJECT'S CHARACTER, RELIABILITY AND SECURITY, CITING EVIDENCE WHERE POSSIBLE.

Subject believed reliable with no known adverse character traits. No known security problems to date.

6.  EXPLAIN ANY SITUATION OR INDISCRETION IN WHICH SUBJECT MAY HAVE BEEN INVOLVED WHICH MUST BE EVALUATED FROM A CE/OPERATIONAL SECURITY VIEWPOINT.

None.

SECTION XII

SUBJECT'S PERSONAL HABITS

1.  USE OF LIQUOR. DRUGS: GAMBLING, PARAMOURS.

No known excessive habits.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECTION RII

SECRET

AVOCATIONAL INTERESTS

1.  INDICATE SUBJECT'S HOBBIES OR INTEREST IN SPORTS, MUSIC, ETC.

Aviation.

SECTION XIV

GENERAL

1.  INDICATE WHETHER SUBJECT'S LANGUAGE ABILITIES AND OTHER CHARACTERISTICS, ARE SUCH AS HE COULD PASS AS A NATIVE OF A COUNTRY OR REGION OTHER THAN HIS OWN. EXPLAIN.

Certain Central American countries.

2.  INDICATE WHETHER INFORMATION IN PRQ PARTS I AND II WAS OBTAINED BY RESEARCH, CLANDESTINE ASSESSMENT, FILES, CORRESPONDENCE OR OTHER MEANS.

PRQ Part I supplied by Subject; Part II by check of files by case officer.

3. IF OTHER THAN ROUTINE ACTION IS REQUIRED. IF AND WHEN TERMINATION OF SUBJECT IS EFFECTED, PLEASE EXPLAIN. (Also see para. 43b, supra)

None.

SECTION XV

EMERGENCY CONDITIONS RECONTACT ARRANGEMENTS

1. GIVE FULL DETAILS I.E. RECOGNITION SIGNALS. S/W WHERE COULD CONTACT BE MADE; WHAT BONA FIDES COULD INDIVIDUAL MAKING CONTACT USE?

NA

SECTION XVI

MISCELLANEOUS OPERATIONAL DATA AND REMARKS

DATE

2 December 1965

SIGNATURE OF APPROPRIATE SENIOR OFFICER

Laurinle


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

FROM: CHIEF, CI/QA

/s/ Edward P. Brown

SUBJECT:

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPHOVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIER INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|     |                                    |     |                                              |
| --- | ---------------------------------- | --- | -------------------------------------------- |
|     | PRO I                              |     | REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER                    |
| XX  | PRO SI                             |     | REVIEW OF STAFF/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION     |
|     | FIELD TRACES                       |     | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT CI/OA      |
|     | RI TRACES                          |     | REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA |
|     | OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    |     | REVIEW OF FOI REPORT AT CI/OA                |
|     | RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION |     | REVIEW OF ATTACHID REFERENCE                 |
|     | GREEN LIST                         | XX  | OTHERS (See Remarks)                         |

NOTICE:

REMARKS: POA expired on. Please submit PRQ.

Part II. If, within 30 days, no further interest in Subject has been indicated, POA will be automatically cancelled.

FORM 889a
9-65

SECRET

(20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

30 AUG 1965

SUBJECT : 201-294544
#242 369

Reference is made to our previous memorandum furnishing you with National Agency Checks results and confirmation of completion of favorable domestic field investigation conducted in connection with your consideration of Subject for an Operational Approval.

As noted in our previous memorandum, written reports on the field investigation were to be furnished to your office at a later date. Attached hereto you will find the above-mentioned reports. No further action is contemplated in this matter.

![Signature of Victor R. White, Deputy Director of Security]

Enclosure:
INV. RPT. DTD. 6/29/65

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SEGRET

FILE NO. 242 369

DATE 29 June 1965

## SYNOPSIS

Antonio SCTO has been employed periodically by Eagle Incorporated, a steamship company, since 1961. He has been utilized as a warehouse checker. SUBJECT has left his employment to accept short time flying jobs. lle left Eagle Incorporated in March 1965 to accept one of these flying Jobs. Four developed references favorable regarding habits, morals, reputation, and loyalty to the United States. No credit or police record in the nance of SUBJECT or his spcuse.

SEORET

REPORT NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

File #2142 369

EMPLOYMENT:

At Hiaal, Plorida

(Eagle Incorporated)

On 22 June 1965 Sam KRATISH, secretary-treasurer, 800 11. 2. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed regarding Antonio SOM. The informant stated that. "Tony" has been employed by the firm periodically since 1961. 30.7 has been utilized as a warehouse checker for the steamship company. He unloaded cargo coming to and from the United States. He was an excellent employce, and although he has left on several occasions, he is always eligible for rehire. The informant stated that SUBJECT is also a pilot and formerly flew in the Cuben Air Force. He has had several part time or temporary flying jobo which offer him cocd pay. When these Jobs arise the firm allows SUBJECT to leave without jeopardizing his standing with the company. SUBJECT left in March 1965 to accept another one of these flying joth. The informant stated that he did not know where these Jobs were located, but believed that they are usually out of the United States.

REFEFE ACES:

At Meal, Florida

On 22 June 1965 Sam KRATISH, previously identified, was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The informant stated that he considers "Tony" SOTO to be a reputable and honest individual. He has been associated with him on a professional basis since 1961 and his accoc-lations have all been satisfactory. SUBJECT to an excellent werker and is completely honest. The informant stated that he has often left SUBJECT alone with valuable carco, and that there has never been any dispute over SUBJECT'S trustworthiness or integrity. 32JCT 18 a Cuban exilo who left Cuba because of the CASTRO regime. SUBJECT has never eapoused any political ideologies while he has worked at the firm, but the informant steted that he is aware of the fact that the SUBJECT 19 anti-CASTRO and that he is favorably disposed towards the United States form of

-1-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SEGRET

File 1242 369

government. The informant stated that he knew nothing
that he considered to be unfavorable regarding 3BJECT'S
character.

On 22 June 1965 J. C. WILDIR, supervisor, Fagle
Incorporated, 800 N. E. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed re-
garding S BJECT as a developed reference. The inform
ant stated that he has been acquainted with SUBJECT since
1961 on a professi nal basis. SEJECT has been & ware-
house checker periodically since 1961. His main line
of work is flying, and he was formerly a pilot in the
Cuban Air Force. However, after CASTRO took over the
island SUBJECT fled and has worked at several different
locations flyin. on a part time basis. When SUEJECT does
not have a job flying he always comes to the company, and
because of his food work habits he is always hired. The
informant stated that SUBJECT left the company in March
1965 to tako a for flying at some unknown location. The
informant stated that he has found St-JECT to be plea-
sant, completely reliable, and a man of Integrity. Theve
18 no question of his morality or sobriety, and the in-
formant believed that SUBJECT was loyal to the United
States.

On 22 June 1965 Carlos MARTCE", export manager,
Eagle Incorporated, 500. E. 2nd Avenue, was interviewed
regarding SUEJICT as a developed reference.. The inform
ant stated that he has been acquainted with SUBJECT since
1961 on a professional basis. During that time he has
never noted anything of an unfavorable nature regarding
SUBJECT'a character, morality or sobriety. He is a hard
working and sonscientious individual and is diligent and
reliable. He last worked for the ocmpany for approx-
imately six months in 1964 and 1565 and left in March
1965 to take a flying job at some unknown location. the
informant atated that he has never heard anything to inc1-
cate that SHEJECT had any Communistic tendencies whatsoever,
and he believed that SUBJECT was favorably disposed to-
wards the United States..

At Hialean, Florida

On 22 June 165 Mrs. Marie RODRIGE?, 1260 West
60th Terrace, was interviewed regarding SRECT as a
developed reference. The Anicrmant stated that SUBJECT

-2-

SEGRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

File 242 369

and his family resided next door to her for two years from 1962 to 1964. She found SUBJECT to be happily married and stated that he was a decent and clean living person. He was formerly a pilot in Cuba, but had to flee Cuba because of the CASTRO regime. The informant believed that SUBJECT was favorably disposed towards the United States government. She added that she could offer no criticism of his personal conduct, morality or so- briety. She added that all of her associations with SUBJECT have been satisfactory.

On 22 June 1965 Mrs. Mary DIENER, 1280 West 60th Terrace, was interviewed regarding SUBJECT as a developed reference. The informant stated that she lived next door to SUBJECT and his family for two years and found them to be good neighbors. They were Cuban refugees who fled Cuba because of the CASTRO regime. SUBJECT was a pilot in Cuba, but could not find work flying here in the United States. As a consequence he worked for a firm on the docks in downtown Miami. SUBJECT's reputation in the community was good, and the informant believed that he was a respectable gentleman. She stated that she believed SUBJECT was appreciative of being able to live in the United States, and she never heard him criticise our form of government.

CREDIT:

At Miami, Florida

On 10 June 1965 records of the Credit Bureau of Miami were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his spouse and no record was found

These files cover Hialeah, Florida.

POLICE:

At Miami, Florida

On 10 June 1965 records of the Dade County Public Safety Department and the Miami Police Department were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his spouse and no record was found.

At Hialeah, Florida

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

File #242 369

On 10 June 1965 records of the Hialeah Police Department were reviewed in the names of SUBJECT and his spouse and no record was found.

AAT/ahh

-4-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET

# INSTRUCTION SHEET

|                |                   | DATE        |               |
| -------------- | ----------------- | ----------- | ------------- |
| SET UP FOR POA | ERPEDITE INDICES  | 8 July 1965 | CASE NO. 7072 |
| SET UP FOR DA  | SPECIAL INQUIRY   | DATE        | 294 514       |
| USE            | COVERT NAVE CHECK | INDICES     | DATE          |
|                |                   | AREA        |               |

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL T

REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS FI/D DOSSIER REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REVIEW FI/D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL INTERROGATION FROM SECURITY OFFICE DIVISION

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

FORWARD TO

SECURITY OFFICE ATTACHMENT

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED (No notice to Division)

REVIEW AT CI/OA
FOR REPORT LCPLUTTER REPORT

CANCEL PER CI/OA NOTICE TO DIVISION
(Reason checked below. or see remarks)

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE. ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

REQUEST R: TRACES

FILE

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

TICKLE

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

NOTICE FIRST SECOND FINAL

REQUEST PRO I PRO II

OTHER

POA EXPIRED

PLEASE SUBMIT PRO II. IF INDICATING NO FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL

HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

FAILURE TO SUBMIT PRO II AS REQUIRED UNDER CAT NO. 10-5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL
FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKS:

N/F. This case was discussed with Mr. Brown/C/CI/CA

Ball also conferred with J. Scanlon/SOD/Sec. and F. Farrel/SOD/Case Officer/ who reviewed the Eyes Only data and other information of record. It was determined that in view of the Subject already being in the Field on his second tour and the type of operation(PM) involved that the derogatory nature of the information would not preclude his continued use. SCD however is to forward a memorandum to this effect for CI/CA files.

FORM 707

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

TO: Deputy Director Security, IOS DATE 14 Apr. 1965 Jev

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIGNMENT

SUBJECT: 201-294541 804242369 WITBRUSH

TYPE OF REQUEST OS INDICES RESULTS BY FOR CHECK RESULTS BY
SOD/AB/OFS/3 Congo
POA OC LOC (Date) 20 Apr. 1965 (Date) 27 Apr. 1965

USE OF SUBJECT
Pilot WITBRUSH

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS: (Limitations on investigation, cover pretext, etc.)

CS TRACE RESULTS HDI DIVISION FIELD
NDI: WR ATTACHMENTS NDI: WAVE
GREEN LIST INITIATED

REMARKS

POA

Is/ Edward P. Brown HEB

ENDORSEMENT

TO: Chief, CI/CA DATE 6/25/65

FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS

☐ 1. OS Indices results: #242569 (WR) other than a prex. deport interest to Cr/Obs

☑ 2. Checks were conducted at the indicated agencies with negative results:

FBI CHI ACSI STATE FE CSC HOUA OSI I & N

☑ 3. Checks were conducted at the employing Agency(ies) with positive results, reports attached
FBI (forwarded 4/21/65), LZN, OSI (Eyes Only).

☐ 4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed, reports attached.

☐ 5. Domestic Field Investigation favorable, reports will follow within 60 days.

Additional Traces and Domestic field coverage have been scheduled.
The results of which will be forwarded when completed.

SECRET

693


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

FILE NO. 242. 369 DATE 26 May 1905

# SYNOPSIS

File at Immigration and Naturalization Service, Kiami, Florida shows that one Antonio SOTO (Vazquez), who was born 20 August 1934 in Cuba, arrived in the United States at Daytona Beach, Florida on i January 1959 and he departed from the United States at Miami, Florida for the Dominican Republic on 20 June 1959. He again arrived in the United States at San Juan, P. R. on 18 August 1959, using name and passport of one Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez), which he explained by saying the could not get visa in own name due to service in Cuban Air Force during BATISTA regime. His foreign departure from Miami, Florida to Guatemala was verified 28 September 1959. Father of SUBJECT said to be in jail in Cuba in 1959 for participating in attempted invasion of Cuba. SUBJECT arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida 11 January 1951; his forelen departure from Miami, Florida was verifled 25 February 1961 and he Brain arrived in the United States at Slant, Florida 24 May 1961. He was granted Re-Entry Permit in October 1963 for travel to Republic of Congo, Dackground data set forth.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

File #242 369

GENERAL:
At Miami, Florida

The records in the District Office, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 51 S. W. First Avenue, which were checked on 19 and 24 May 1965, were found to contain file # A-11 263 189 pertaining to one Antonio SOTO (Vazquez), AKA, Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez), who arrived in the United States at Daytona Beach, Florida on 1 January 1959 in a Cuban Army airplane. He was said to have been born on 20 Aurust 1934 at Havana, Cuba; to be the son of Antonio SOTO (Rodriguez). and Julia Rosa VAZQUEZ (Acosta) and to have resided in January- February 1959 at 1409 3outh Ridgewood Avenue and at 129 North Halifax Avenue, both Daytona Beach, Florida. In February 1959, his address was given as 35 N. E. o8th Street, Miami, Florida and his foreign departure from Miami, Florida to the Dominican Republic was verified on 20 June 1959.

SOTO again arrived in the United States at San Juan, Puerto Rico on 18 August 1959, at which time he presented Cuban passport #02042 in the name of Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez). Upon interrogation under oath by Immigration and Naturalization Service at Miami, Florida on 18 September 1959, SOTO admitted his identity as Antonio SOTO (Vazquez); stated that he could not get a visa in his own name in Cuba because he had been in the BATISTA Covernment as a Captain in the Cuban Air Force and that he would refuse to tell how he ob- tained the passport in the name of Orlando Pedro RODRIGUEZ (Alvarez). ile said that he came to the United States to try to help his father who was then in jail in Cuba. He identi- fied his wife as Dolores Inocenta BECERRA (Garcia) and gave their address as 6711 N. W. 2nd Court, Miami, Floride. He wan represented, for Immigration purposes, by Attorney Ralph H. AGUILERA, 668 Dupont Plaza Center, Miami, Florida. A notation in the file in August 1959 set forth that SUBJECT's father, Col. Antonio SOTO, "was the man who had recently piloted the invasion plane from Dominican Republic to Trinidad, Cuba" was shot in the fighting and was in a prison, hospital in Cuba. The foreign derarture of SUEJECT from Miami, Florida to Guatemala was verified on 23 September 1959, after he had been, ordered deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for fraudulent entry. In December 1959, his address

-1-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

File #242 369

was given as 6th Avenue #1221, 8th Piso, P. O. Box 918, Guatemala City, Guatemala.

Antonio SOTO (Vazquez) again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 11 January 1961. He reported that he had Social Security #265-64-6892; that he had a brother-in-law, Fidel RODRIGUEZ, 440 S. W. 5th Avenue, Miami, Florida and that he (SOTO) intended to reside at 5703 North Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida. His foreign departure was verified at Miami, Florida on 25 February 19ol and he again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 24 May 1961. In August 19ól, his address was 143 N. W. 39th Street, Miami, Florida.

On 18 October 1963, SUBJECT was granted a Re-Entry Permit by the Imigration and Naturalization Service so that he could travel to the Republic of the Congo as an employee of Caribbean Aeromarine Company, P. O. Box 755, Miami, 43, Florida. He again arrived in the United States at New York, 11. Y. on 4 May 1964 and in September 1964, his address was listed as 1270 West 60th Terrace, Hialeah, Florida.

In September 1964, the Immigration and Naturalization Service was advised by the U. S. Department of State, hosh ington, D. C. that SUBJECT had applied to the American Consulate, Toronto, Canada for an immigrant visa. The U. S. Department of State was advised by the Immigration and Naturali- zation Service on 1 October 1964 that SUBJECT appeared "to still be excludable".

Additional information concerning SUBJECT is gaid to possibly be contained in the files of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The above records were also found to contain file # A-12 542 005 pertaining to one Dolores Inocenta BECERRA, who arrived in the United States at Mami, Florida on 15 October 1960 and who may be identical with the wife of SUBJECT. This person was said to have been born on 28 December 1939 at Havana, Cuba; to be married to one Antonio SOTO, 5703 North Miami Avenue, Miami, Florida and to have a brother, Sergio BECERRA, 147 N. W. o8th Street, Miami, Florida.

The above records were also found to contain file

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

File 21.2 369

A-11 821 502 pertaining to one Julia Rosa VAZQUEZ (Acosta), AKA, Edelma Harina SANCHEZ (Izquierdo), who may be identical with the mother of SUBJECT. This person was said to have been born on 16 April 1909 in Matanzas Province, Cuba; to have arrived in the United States at San Juan, Puerto Rico on 18 August 1959 with a Cubon passport issued to one Edelma Marina SANCHEZ (Izquierdo) and that she admitted this passport to be false insofar as she was concerned. In September 1959, her address was 65 N. W. 60th Street, Miami, Florida and her foreign departure from Miami, Florida for Cuba was verified on 2 October 1959. She again arrived in the United States at Miami, Florida on 5 October 1960 and gave her address as c/o her daughter, Cecina 30TO, 4413 N. W. 9th Street, Miami, Florida.

FHH/eph

-3-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

FILE NO. 242 369 DATE 17 June 1965

## SYNOPSIS

Developed reference in 100 block North Halifax Avenue, Daytona Beach, Florida, advised that the reported former residence of Antonio SOTO (VAZQUEZ) was owned and occupied by Cuban General BATISTA at the time. Informant advised neither she nor others in area would have any knowledge of SUBJECT. Inquiries in 1400 block South Ridgewood Avenue unproductive, incorrect address furnished. Credit and police, no record.

REPORT NO. 1125


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

#242 369

REFERENCES

At Daytona Beach, Florida:

On 11 June 1965, observation, revealed that the dwelling at 129 North Halifax Avenue, reportedly the residence of Antonio SOTO (VAZQUEZ) in early 1959, is presently vacant. The building contains a nameplate in the name of St. Demetrios Greek Orthodox Parish.

On 11 June 1965, Mrs. Clayton HARSPER, developed informant at 120 North Ihlifax Avenue, advised that the dwelling at 129 North Halifax Avenue was owned for many years by former Cuban General BATISTA. During the period in question, LATISTA, family friends, and staff, totaling approximately thirty people, occupled the dwelling. Many individuals of Cuban extraction came and went during the late 1950s, and Mrs. HARSPER stated that neither she nor other present residents of this area would have any knowledge of the SUBJECT. The Cubans kept to themselves and never mingled with the local citizenry.

Mrs. HARSPER added that PATISTA sold the property about a year ago to a church group, but the bullding is presently unoccupied.

Cn 11 June 1965, observations in the 1400 block of South Ridgewood Avenue revealed that there is no 1409 South Ridgewood. A Mrs. SHAROG, owner of the Parkway Motel at 1369; and Edward SUMMERS, bumble Oil Station, 1480 South Ridgewood Avenue, both stated that there has never been a 1409 South Ridgewood Avenue. The informants advised that several motels in the area have all undergone several ownership changes over the past five or six years, and the informanta know of no one in the area who would be in a position to recall the SUBJECT.

CREDIT

At Daytona Beach, Plorida:

Cr. 11. June 1965, the files of the Daytona Beach Credit Bureau were searched in the name of SUBJECT, no record.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

#242 369

POLICE (CRIMINAL, TRAFFIC, AND SUBVERSIVE)

At Daytona Beach, Florida:

On 11 June 1965, the files of the Daytona Beach Police Department were searched in the name of SUBJECT, no record.

JKM/jdm

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SOTO (VAZQUEZ), Antonio
242.369

4 June 1965

On 27 May 1965, the files of the Immigration and Naturalization Service were searched in the name of SOTO (VAZQUEZ, Antonio, born 20 August 1934, Cuba.

The only information available at the Central Office relating to SUBJECT were I-94 forms, copies of which are attached.

KNW:ja


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

### Name (Last in Caps)
SOTO VAZQUEZ, Antonio

Also:
(DNR) to Rodrigues y Alvarez, Orlando D. (A 11 882 397)

Type of Action: Parolee

Country of Birth: Cuba

Date of Birth:
03 20 34

Place of Entry: JAO Fla.

Date of Entry:
01 01 59

FILE LOCATION:
MIA 3-25-60 J CORRECTED INDEX CARD

ORIGINAL INDEX CARD

Name (Last in CAPS):
SOTO-Vazquez, Antonio

Address:
95 2nd Avenue

Born: Cuba

Index Code: 53 80

(Mo.) (Day) (Year): 1934

Type of Action:
Civil. No. A-2721, fool 55, page 038

Action Taken or V.P. (Decision):
forwarded to Consel at.

Investigated: like subversive literature in house

no further information.

Form C-361 (Rev. 12-1-38) INDIA CARD

Family Name: SOTO-VASQUEZ, ANTONIO

Nationality (Citizenship): CUBA

United States Address:
6711 NW 2nd COURT MIAMI, FLA

Airline & Flight No. or Vessel of Arrival: (2)

Permanent Address:
Birthdate: AUG 20, 1934

Birthplace: HAVANA CUBA

Your affiliation cannot be indicated at this time. You are PAROLED MAY 24, 1961

Condition: TO REPORT FOR FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.

MIA 4/25/61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

Surname
Viqquez
Given Name
Nationality (Citizenship)
Antonio
Initial Passport Number
Cuba
Birthplace
Havana, Cuba
Birthdate
8/20/34
United States Address
c/o Celina Soto, 65 N. W. 60th St., Miami, Fla.
Permanent Address
Visa Issued At
Your admission cannot be authorized at
Date Visa Issued
this time. You are PAROLED
Viaal Hama or Airline & Flight No. of Arrival
PAA 431 - 18
until Sept/3, 1959, 9:3-Am
Passenger Boarded At
ciudad Trujillo, Dom. Rep.
Restricted to Drive
Form 1-94 A (Rev. 7-1-57)
Arrival-Departure Record A-11, 263,(87) (Imm. Officer)
Surname
Soto y Vazquez
Given Name
Nationality (Citizenship)
Antonio
Initial Passport Number
Cuba
Birthplace
Havana, Cuba
Birthdate
Aug 20, 1934
United States Address
Casino de Fortuna
Permanent Address
Havana; Cuba
Visa Issued At
Home
Your admission cannot be authorized at
Date Visa Issued
this time you are PAROLED
Home
Passenger Boarded
Cuban Airforce Flag
Daytona Beach: not to
Form 1-94 A (Rev. 7-1-57)
Arrival-Departure Record

ANY HANDWRITTEN ENTRIES MUST BE IN BLOCK CAPITAL LETTERS
Visa Issued At
Miami, Fla.
Date Visa Issued
June 9 1961
Visa Name or Airline and Flight No. of Arrival
CAM-100
Passenger Boarded At
Mexico D. F.
Form 1.94 A (Rev. 7-1-57)
Arrival-Departure Record

May 11 1961
A-12.5.12.00/
Feb 10-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

You have been admitted to the United States for the period of time indicated hereon. Remaining in the United States thereafter without obtaining an extension of time from the Immigration authorities is a violation of law. You are required to retain this permit in your possession and to surrender it to the transportation line at the time of your departure unless you depart over the land border of the United States in which case you must surrender it to a Canadian Immigration officer on the Canadian border, or to a United States Immigration officer on the Mexican border.

RECORD OF EXTENSIONS:

You have been admitted to the United States for the period of time indicated hereon. Remaining in the United States thereafter without obtaining an extension of time from the Immigration authorities is a violation of law. You are required to retain this permit in your possession and to surrender it to the transportation line at the time of your departure unless you depart over the land border of the United States in which case you must surrender it to a Canadian Immigration officer on the Canadian border, or to a United States Immigration officer on the Mexican border.

RECORD OF EXTENSIONS:

To 9/18/64

Office l/1/Bim

Office

Office

You have been admitted to the United States for the period of time indicated hereon. Remaining in the United States thereafter without obtaining an extension of time from the immigration authorities is a violation of law. You are required to retain this permit in your possession and to surrender it to the transportation line at the time of your departure unless you depart over the land border of the United States in which case you must surrender it to a Canadian immigration officer on the Canadian border, or to a United States immigration officer on the Mexican border.

RECORD OF EXTENSIONS:

![stamp: DEPARTURE FOREIGN]

UNITLUSTATIS DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
U. S. Immigration Ottery

DEPARTURE RECORD

Port:

Date:

Carrier:

To:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service
Form Approved - Budget Bureau No. 43-R3:14

DEPARTURE RECORD

Port:

Date:

Carrier:

To:

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service
Form Approved - Budget Bureau No. 43-21114


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Family name

SOTO VALQUEZ

Home address and name of relative or friend residing here

Address in the U.S.

Eye

Height

Weight

Action by Immigration Office

Initial

Arrival

Date and place of birth

DEPARTURE VERIFIED

Passport (No. and Nationality)

Arrived by

You are required to report to the nearest office of the U.S. Immigration
from U.S.

Form Approved

May 2

RECEIVED

CIV C..

Budget Bureau No. 41R110-1STICS

Form 1-913 (Rev. 1-1-57) Index Cap

Family name

Gizen ran

Initial

Home address and name of relative or friend residing there

Addrean in the U..

Eye

2.  50

20

Action by Immigration Öfilere

Passport (No. and Nationality)

Miami, Karina

Arrived by

be pade ofe

Pera Armenmed

Farm 1-1 (Rev. 1-1-37) Inde Cap7

Budget Bintean No. 41R 110.1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

ORIG: L. MURCHY: kao
UNIT: SOD/AB/OPS/3
EXT: 4475
DATE: 24 May 1965

MESSAGE FORM
SECRET
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-294544

ROUTING
5
6
7
8

TO: JMWAVE (FOR LORENTZ)
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: SOD 6
INFO WH/C & AF6, CI/OA, FI, VR FILE

TO WAVE (FOR LORENTZ)
CITE DIR 13284
CHAPPLE WITHRUSH PBRUMEN
POA GRANTED SUBJ 87. ODURGE ASSISTANCE REQUESTED BY HQS.
END OF MESSAGE

AF/5. T. Baskett/Draft
CI/OA G. Dall/Telecon
SOD/AB/OPS/3

![signature of Desmond Fitzgerald]
DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WH

![signature of Bernard J. Finan Jr.]
BERNARD J. FINAN, JR.
C/SOD/AB

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM

PHOENIX

ACTION

SOD 6

TOTAL COPICS. 76

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIE٢٥

REPRODUCTION PROFISITED

ADVANCE CORV

UNIT

INFO

UPFILE, DDP, WH/C 8, AF 6, Cl/F, Olsi, OT

SECRET 1817152

DIR INFO WAVE CITE PNIX 2726 ✓

CHAPPIE IUPAGAN WITHRUSH

HEF DIR 03920

PNIX 2715 (*1067575*)

2372

file201-274.544

10570135

1. MR ORLANDO IZQUIERDO AND OR ANTONIO SOTO VASQUED COMPLETED
   TRAINING AND FAMILIARIZATION IN THEODEL 470-38-1 HELICOPTER

ON 15 MAY 65. FOLLOWING IS A SUNNARY OF THEIR TRAINING AND HOURS:

A. IZQUIERDO:

| ACTIVITY                                    | TIME     |
| ------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| GROUND SCHOOL (EXAMS, NAVIGATION/FLIGHT,    |          |
| WEIGHT & BALANCE, GENERAL ORIENTATIONA      | 9:00 HRS |
| SUPPLEMENTAL READING                        | DAILY    |
| PADIO PROCEDURES WITH URF, VHF & HE         | DAILY    |
| DEAD RENCKONING AND CROSS-COUNTRY           | 4:10 HRS |
| PERSONNEL RAPPELLING, PERSONNEL PARACHUTING |          |
| CARGO RACKS AND CARGO SLINGS                | 2:00 HRS |
| TOTAL FLYING TIME:                          |          |
| DUAL:                                       | 21:55    |
| SOLO                                        | 2:30     |
| STUDENT DUAL (SOTO                          |          |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIE: 25

21 SECRET REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

FROM Im WAVE UNIT TIME BY

ACTION SOD-6

INFO VR. FILE, DDP, Write-8, AF-CCI/ON OpseR

May 65 IN 59001

SECRET 041933Z

PRIX INFO DIR CITE WAVE 1480

CHAPPIE WITHRUSH LUPAGAN PERUMEN

RES WAVE 1444 (~58061)

LORENTZ FAMI BEAUS:

ANTONIO SOTO RECEIVED 6 PLUS 50 HRS DUAL TRAINING AND ORLANDO

12QU1010012 PLus 20 HRS HELICOPTER DUAL TRAINING. TRAINING

CONSISTED OF NOREAL HELICOPTER EXERCISES INCLUDING FRE FLIGHT,

EXERGENCIES, AUTO-ROTATIONS UNDER VARIOUS CONDITIONS, WATER

LANDINGS AND SLING LOADS. INSTRUCTOR RATED BOTH SUBJS SAFE. UNDER

NORMAL CONDITIONS AND RATED THEM 50 PERCENT ABOVE AVERAGE IN

GENERAL TRAINING

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

ACTION IMWAVE

5006

VR. FILE AFG, DOP, WH/C8 /alon OPSER

SECRET 0321402

PRIX INFO DIR CITE WAVE 1444

CHAPPIE/WITHRUSH/IUPAGAN/PBRUMEN

LORENTZ MIAMI SENDS

3 MAY 65 IN 58061

1.  ORLANDO IZQUIERDO (I) AND ANTONIO SOTO (S) ARRIVING 4 MAY ALBEQUERQUE 1752 LOCAL CONTINENTAL 275.

2.  BOTH BRIEFED QUARTERS AND RATIONS TO SE FURNISHED.

3.  (I) HAD APPROXIMATLY 14 KRS LOCALLY AND (S) 6 HRS. WILL CABLE DETAILS OF LOCAL INFORMAL TRAINING RESULTS.

SECKET

CAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 7

# SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

FROM: PILE
ACTION: 5001
INFO: VR. FILE DDP WII/CG ACS (CON) OFSER OT
UNIT: 500 TIME: 1550

# SECRET 1520102

PRIORITY DIR INFO PRIORITY WAVE (FOR LORENTZ) CITE PNIX 2609 (THETFORD ACTG) 15 Apr 65 11. 46081

HAPPIE IUKAGAN PBRUMEN VITRUSH

1. MR ANTONIO SOTO VAZQUEZ COMPLETED TRAINING 15 APRIL. WILL DEPART ALBUQUERQUE 1245L 16 APRIL, CONTINENTAL FLT 274. ARRIVE MIAMI VIA DALLAS 2204L 16 APRIL, EASTERN FLT 207.

2. DETAILED TRAINING REPORT WILL FOLLOW.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SOTO (VAZQUEE), Antonio
8242 369

15 June 1965

On 14 June 1965, files of Seadquarters, Office of Special Investigations, United States Air Force, were reviewed in the name of Antonio SOTO (VAZQUEZ), born 20 August 1934 at Marianas, Habana, Cuba, and reflected that OSI conducted a lie detector examination (File #72-90) on SUBJECT on 21 May 1963.

During the course of this exazination, the SUBJECT reacted to basic questions concerning homosexuality, and as a result of this reaction, a re-examination was conducted during the morning of 12 June 1963 at Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. The initial examination was predicated in that SUBJECT was a former member of 2500th Cuban Brigade and was being processed for consideration for appointment aم a Second Lieutenant in the United States Air Force.

Prior to re-exumination, SUNSCT made an initial statement, the substance of which is as follows:

SUBJECT indicated he resided at 859 Second Avenue, 474, Santa Fe Beach, Banta, Cuba, from 1948 to 1959. He entered the Cuban Air Force as an Aviation Cadet in March 1953 and in August 1953, he began aristion training, which continued until August 1954. In August 1954, he was sent to the United States where he attended piles training school until August 1955, at which time he graduated and was given a commission on n Second Lieutenant in the Swan Air Force. During these periods of time, at various recalled intervals, SUBJECT stated he would return to his home at Santa Fe Beach.. His homosexual acts at Santa Fe each occurred during 1919. This homosexual activity consisted of not more than rive acts of anal solory. SUBJECT stated that he was the active or male partner in these acts. The passive partner was another Cuban boy who lived nearby: SEST could not recall the name or the passive participant. During 1960, while at Managua, Nicaragua, as a Counter-Revelationist preparing for invasion of Cuba, he becane acquainted with a Cuban Catholic priest vho vas also a revolutionis:. SUBJECT further stated that while attending a theatre, this priest made homosexual advances tovani SUBJECT, which culminated in the SUBJECT being wistur-bated by the priest. Approximately one week later, after his


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

#242 369

group arrived in Costa Rica, the SUBJECT performed an act of anal sodomy upon the person of the priest. The SUBJECT declined to disclose the identity of the priest; however, ho stated that if it was determined that the disclosure of the name was essential for a prerequisito to his acceptance into the United States Air Force, he would mako such a disclosure.

A lie detector examination, consisting of three parte, was given SUBJECT by a representative of the Office of Special Investigations on 12 June 1963. The second test was in the nature of a control test to determine whether or not the examince was physically and mentally capable of giving a specific reaction. The results indicated that the examinee was capable of giving a valid reaction. Test number one and test number three consisted of relevant, irrelevant and guilt complex type questions, co-mingled in such a manner as to give the EUBJECT relief between relevant questions. The following are the relevant questions asked during the examination, and the answers as given by the SUBJECT:

TEST #1

Question A: Prior to 1961, did you engage in homosexual acts?

Answer: Yes.

Question B: Since your homosexual acto during 1960 in Costa Rica, have you engaged in any other homosexual acts?

Answer: Σία.

Question C: Since you have been at Maxwell Air Force Base, have you engaged in homosexual acts?

Answer: No.

Question D: Have you ever engaged in oral copulation, either as active or passive partner?

Anaver No.

-2-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# TEST #3

Question A: Prior to 1961, did you engage in homosexual acts?

Answer: Yes.

Question B: Since your homosexual acts during 1960 in Costa Rica, have you engaged in any other homosexual acts?

Answer: No.

Question C: Since you have been at Maxwell Air Force Base, have you engaged in homosexual acts?

Answer: No.

Question D: Since you have been at Maxwell Air Force Base, have there been any incidents involving homosexuality which you did not tell me about?

Answer: No.

Question E: At any time in the U.S., including the time you were going to flying training school, and later here at Maxwell Air Force Base, have you engaged in any homosexual activity?

Answer: No.

After a careful analysis of the charts pertaining to this examination, the examiner gave the opinion that the SUBJECT was untruthful in his answers Questions B and C, Test #1, and Questions B, C, D and E, Test #2, and that SUBJECT was truthful in answers to Questions A and B, Test #1, and to Question A, Test #2.

Subsequent to the examination, the SUBJECT was re-interrogated concerning his reactions during the above tests. The SUBJECT maintained that he was truthful in his answers. The SUBJECT executed a sworn,

-3-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

signed statement setting forth the information disclosed during the pre-test interrogation, and this information is given in substance above.

O6I Headquarter's files contain a letter dated 14 June 1963, which is a report of the Record of Action of the Military Personnel Security Committee in the case of EUBJECT. The body of this letter is given in the following two paragraphs:

1. Pursuant to paragraph 9, Air Force Regulation 35-62, the Military Personnel ecurity Committee reviewed all available records relating to the above member of the 2506th Cuban Brigade. Due to the following factors, it is concluded that appointment of the individual is not clearly consistent with the interests of national security:

SUBJECT admitted homosexual activity to age twenty-six, and additional acto thereafter indicated by result of polygraph examination.

2. Accordingly, it is recomended that the individual be rejected for military service with the United States Air Force because of questionable moral character."

OEI Headquarter's Investigative Files contain no further pertinent information relating to SUBJECT.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

RYBAT
SECRET
# 72514
28 April 1965

Subject: Idea A

Subject was interviewed and tested on 28 April 1965 at a safe site in the Miami area at the request of Edward V. LORENTZ. The interview was conducted in English.

## RESULTS

Subject has never taken part in any communist activity and he has never worked for any Castro intelligence or security service. Apart from PBPRIME he has no connection or agreement with the government of any other country.

Unless otherwise noted below Subject is not obligated to any Cuban exile group.

Subject has been essentially truthful in regard to his personal history and he does not feel he is liable to blackmail for any reason. Subject has never been involved in the use or sale of narcotics.

## DETAILS

Subject is being recruited for use with WITHBUSH. He has served there before. Like all of the men in the group who have been in the Iden B, Subject assumes that the operation is sponsored by KUBARK.

Subject joined AMWORLD but was never called to go to the training camps.

In connection with blackmail, Subject mentioned that his father is in jail in Cuba. To date no attempts have been made by the Castro government to put any pressure on Subject.

Keith D. VINETT

RYBAT
SECRET

![photo of a stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

RYBAT
SECRET

# 73514
28 April 1965
IDENS

Idea A Antonio SOTO Vazquez
DPOD: 20 August 1934
Marianao, Habana, Cuba 201-294544

Idea B Congo.

![signature]

RYBAT
SECRET

![PAGE 1 OF 1 info]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET

# PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief
BOD/AR/CPS-3 - Larry Murphy

NUMBER
201-294544

SUBJECT
SOTO Vasquez, Antonio
REFERENCE: Your Memorandum, Dated

7 April 1965 pr

A Provisional Operational Approval is granted for the use of this Subject as set forth below.

A Provisional Operational Approval issued by CI Staff grants the same authority, on a temporary basis, for the use of an individual as the authority granted in an Operational Approval unless otherwise specified by CI/OA. It is based, however, only on preliminary file checks and investigation and is subject to a further final review when all investigation is completed.

This will confirm oral granting of the POA.

To process the Operational Approval, full information (completed PRQ Parts I and II) must be submitted as soon as possible and not later than six (6) months from this date. An Operational Approval will follow when all investigation is completed and upon the receipt of satisfactory PRQ Parts I and II. Cancellation must be requested if use of Subject by interested Divisions ceases.

| APPROVAL                                     |
| -------------------------------------------- |
| BY /s/ Edward P. Brown                       |
| CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION |
| DATE 21 MAY 1965                             |

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

SOD 5-446
21 MAY 1965

:01 294 344

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. George Ball

SUBJECT : Antonio SOTO Vazquez

REFERENCE : CI/OA Memorandum of 4 May 1965

1. Attached to the referenced memorandum was a list of eight documents concerning the Subject, with a request that SOD/AB/OPS/3 comment on their significance as they might affect the granting of a POA to the Subject.

2. Six of the eight documents were found to be insignificant. Two of the documents were not found. Attached is a memorandum from Chief, RID/FI stating that the two documents could not be found.

3. The Subject has been a WITHRUSH pilot in the past. He was granted a POA on 9 March 1961, and again on 29 October 1962. It is requested that he be again granted a POA in accordance with Form 772 submitted to Chief, CI/OA on 7 April 1965.

![signature of Lawrence Murphy]
Lawrence Murphy
SOD/AB/OPS/3

Attachment

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

20 May 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/OA

ATTN: George Ball

VIA: Chief, RID/RB

SUBJECT: DBA-48364, dated 8 August 1963
DBA-23559, dated 6 October 1962

A thorough and systematic search for the above documents began on 7 May 1965 and they could not be located. On 18 May 1965 an extensive and repetitive search was conducted to no avail.

![signature of RAYMOND V. UTTERBACK]
RAYMOND V. UTTERBACK
Chief, RID/FI

SECRET

![image of a stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

11 MAY 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION : Mr. George Ball

SUBJECT : SOTO Vazquez, Antonio 201-294544

REFERENCE : Chief, CI/OA Memorandum of 4 May 1965

1. Your referenced memorandum requested SOD/AB comments concerning eight reports which mentioned the Subject. Two of the reports were located, both of which contained no derogatory information concerning the Subject.

2. The remaining six documents were placed on "locate" with RI; however, insofar as all six were written prior to the Subject's recent six-month tour with KUBARK in the Congo (Nov 1963 to May 1964), during which he performed in a highly satisfactory manner, it is requested that a POA be granted the Subject.

Lawrence C. Murphy
SOD/AB/OPS/3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

BOD/AR/OPS-3 - Larry Murphy

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA

Date

4 May 1965 pro

C. NO.

201-294544

SUBJECT:

EU10 Vasquez, Antonio

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|                                    |
| ---------------------------------- |
| PRO I                              |
| PRO II                             |
| FIELD TRACES                       |
| RI TRACES                          |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES    |
| RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION |
| GREEN LIST                         |

|                                               |
| --------------------------------------------- |
| REVIEW OF STAFF/D DOSSIER                     |
| REVIEW OF STAFF/6 COLLATERAL INFORMATION      |
| REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF REPORT AT CI/OA        |
| REVIEW OF SEC. OFF. CONCURRENCE MEMO AT CI/OA |
| REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA                 |
| REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                  |
| OTHERS (See Remarks)                          |

NOTICE: FIRST SECOND THIRD AND FINAL

REMARKS: Please advise CI/OA of nature and significance.

SECRET

/s/ Edward P. Brown

FORM 889 USE PREVIOUS EDITION.
6-60

(101)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

TO: Deputy Director Security, 10S

FROM: Chief, CI/Operational Approval and Support Division

DATE

PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIONMENT

SUBJECT: 201

TYPE OF REQUEST

OS: INDICES RESULT

FBI: CHECK RESULTS BY

(Date)

(Date)

USE OF SUDJECT-

Pilot

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS

CS TRACE RESULTS

DIVISION

FIELD

GREEN LIST INITIATCO

ATTACHMENTS

REMARKS

TO: Chief, CI/ОА

FROM: Deputy Director Security, IOS

ENDORSEMENT

DATE 29 APR 1965

1. Os Indices results: # 742367-(WR) other than prior ci/oa interest 300071962 C-90192.

![Report Attached]

![Signature]

MAY 3 12 24 PM '65

4/29/65 for 00s/ies.

FORM 693


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET

NON-OFFICIAL COVER
CONCURRENCE

TO BE COMPLETED BY CI/OA CALY

SUBJECT'S NAME

C OR SOI NO.

DATE OF BIRTH
20 Aug. 1934
PLACE OF BIRTH
Varden, Cuba

CITIZENSHIP
Cuba

OVERSEAS RESIDENCE

EMPLOYER
Paramount Pictures, Hollywood, Calif.

DIVISION OR STAFF
CASE OFFICER
ROOM NO.
EXTENSION
5856

PROPOSED USE

TO BE COMPLETED BY CCS ONLY

CCS/NC CASE OFFICER (Extension 51483)
CCS FILE NO.
15-57

Central Cover Staff concurs in your proposal to use subject for the purpose indicated. In keeping with the requirement placed upon CCS to maintain an accurate register of current nonofficial cover activity, you are specifically requested to advise CCS/NC promptly by memorandum when subject has been activated. The pseudonym-assigned subject should be provided CCS/NC at the time notification of activation is forwarded. If notification of activation is not received in CCS/NC one year from above date it will be assumed proposed use did not materialize.

If check mark appears here, information of interest concerning subject or his employer is in CCS/NC files. After operational approval is received, and prior to making arrangements for initial contact thereunder, you are specifically requested to confer with CCS/NC concerning other Agency interests possibly affected and the advisability of additional coordination.

If check mark appears here the proposed use of subject requires DDP approval under CSI 240-6, para. 5. Please review CSI 240-6 and initiate action as appropriate.

DISTRIBUTION: 1-CCS, 1-FILES 1-DDP/A DIVISION

FORM 2214
2-63
SECRET
12.031


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# INSTRUCTION SHEET

SECRET

DATE: 13 of 65

CASE NO. 201: 90192

DATE: 27 april

CAPEDITE INDICES

COVERT NAME CHECK

AREA: cmgo

Pilot WITHRUSH

ISSUE OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST GREEN LIST

ISSUE PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

REQUEST RESULTS FS/D DOSSIER REVIEW

EXTEND POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REVIEW FI'D COLLATERAL INFORMATION

REINSTATE POA FOR DAYS UNTIL

REQUEST RESULTS TECHNICAL INTERROGATION FROM

DIVISION:

FORWARD ATTACHMENT TO DIVISION

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE REPORT AT CI/OA

FORWARD TO SECURITY OFFICE

ATTACHMENT: pag 1

REVIEW SECURITY OFFICE CONCURRENT MEMO AT CI/OA

CANCEL PER DIVISION MEMO DATED (No notice to Division)

REVIEW AT CI/OA

POI REPORT

LCFLUTTER REPORT

CANCEL PER CI/OA NOTICE TO DIVISION (Reason chocked below, or see remark)

REQUEST REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE, ADVISE CI/OA OF NATURE AND SIGNIFICANCE

REQUEST RI TRACE'S

FILE

REQUEST OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES

TICKLE

NOTICE: FIRST, SECOND, FINAL

REQUEST FIELD TRACES

REQUEST Pag I

OTHER

PLEASE SUBMIT PAQ 11. IF, WITHIN 30 DAYS, NO FURTHER INTEREST IN SUBJECT HAS BEEN INDICATED, POA BILL BE AUTOMATICALLY CANCELLED.

FAILURE TO SUMIT PRO AS PEQUIRED UNDER 281 NO. 10.5 OR TO INDICATE ANY FURTHER INTEREST IN OBTAINING APPROVAL FOR THE OPERATIONAL USE OF SUBJECT.

REMARKS:

> M/R Note: subject already been to the congo + returned - several tour por PAS. No PRICE POWI's for this assignment.

![Signature]

FORM 707

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

# REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Alenye handcarry I copy of this form)
PLEASE COMPLETE BACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATS PLANE

|                                                                |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- |
| DATE                                                           |
| 7 April 1965                                                   |
| TO:                                                            |
| CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION                   |
| X CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION OFFICE OF SECURITY |
| CHIEF PERSONNEL SECURITY DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY          |
| SUBJECT:                                                       |
| (True name) SOTO Vasquez, Antonio                              |
| CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA OR ALIASES                           |
|                                                                |
| FROM:                                                          |
| Larry Murphy                                                   |
| SOD/AB/OPS3                                                    |
| 2 D55                                                          |
| PROJECT                                                        |
| WITHRUSH                                                       |
| CIPA FILE NO.                                                  |
| 70193                                                          |
| R1 201 FILE NO.                                                |
| RSO FILE NO.                                                   |
| 294544                                                         |

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

| X PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL                                                               |
| OPERATIONAL APPROVAL                                                                               |
| PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL                                                               |
| COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL                                                                         |
| CONTRACT TYPE A                                                                                    |
| 2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE                                                                            |
| Africa, Congo, Leopoldville                                                                        |
| 3. FULL DETAILS OF USE.                                                                            |

| PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL |
| PROPRIETARY APPROVAL               |
| COVERT NAME CHECK                  |
| SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO. 1held investigation) |
| CONTRACT TYPE B                    |

Pilot

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                          | YES  | NO  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ---- | --- |
| A. U.S. GOVERAMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION?           |      | X   |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATIONT                       |      | X   |
| C. IS BURJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN NIM                   |      | X   |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN HIM?                              |      | X   |
| E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT. | NONE |     |

F. SUGGEST "COVER PRETEXT" TO BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT DITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTERESTI
IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

|                                            | YES                  | NO  |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------------------- | --- |
| 5. PRO AND GREEN LIST STATUS               |                      |     |
| X PRO IL PILL BE FOHGARDED                 |                      |     |
| PRO S.GR EQUIVALENT IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED | ARA 65               |     |
| GREEN LIST ATTACHED: NOI 167208            |                      |     |
| PRO 15 CO EQUIVALENT IN (1) COPY ATTACHED  | ..                   |     |
| 6. RI TRACES                               |                      |     |
| NO RECORD  BILL FORJARD                    | DEROGATORY, ATTACHED |     |
| N NON-DEROGATORY                           |                      |     |
| 7. SIVISION TRACES                         |                      |     |
| NO RECORD BILL FORWARD                     | DEROGAT ATTACHED     |     |
| X NON-DEROGATORY WIH                       |                      |     |
| 8. FIELD TRACES                            |                      |     |
| NO RECORD BILL FOARD                       |                      |     |
| DFROGATORY ATTACHED                        |                      |     |
| 9. NO CERCGATCAY INFO. WAVE                |                      |     |
| SIGNIFICANT INFORMATION ATTACHED           |                      |     |
| LIST SOURCES CHECKED                       |                      |     |
| SIGNATURE OF CASE CO                       |                      |     |
Larry Mu

1.  772

CATENSION 4475. Bernard J. Finan, Jr.

SECRET

101


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

PERSONAL INFORMATION

NAME So To Antonio

PHONE 4-04558-3045 COUNTY MALE MARIT. STATUS
FEMALE SINGLE

PRESENT 339 E. 64th St, Hialeah.  Fla
ADDRESS

COLOR OF HAIR COLOR OF EYES

PASSPORT ISSUING AUTHORITY
PARTICULARS: PLACE OF ISSUE

NATIONALITY
NATURALIZED

EDUCATION

NAME AND LOCATION OF SCHOOL DATES GRADUATE MAJOR
ATTENDED DEGREES & SUBJECTS

HIGH SCHOOL Coral Gables High

COLLEGE Four years

TRADE, BUSINESS OR
CORRESPONDENCE SCHOOL

SUBJECTS OF SPECIAL STUDY OR SKILL

WHAT FOREIGN LANGUAGES DO YOU SPEAK, READ
Both NAME Spanish

FROM: TYPE OF DISCHARGE: PRESENT MEMBERSHIP IN

ACTIVITIES OTHER THAN RELIGIOUS

STREET CITY/STATE COUNTY

DATE OF BIRTH PRESENT ADDRESS CITATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SALARY OR EARNINGS
STARTING $
FINAL $

SALARY OR EARNINGS
STARTING $
FINAL $

PER YR.
PER YR.

HAVE YOU EVER BEEN CHARGED OR FORCED TO RESIGN FOR MISCONDUCT OR UNSATISFACTORY SERVICE FROM ANY POSITION?
YES
HAVE YOU ANY PHYSICAL OR MENTAL DEFECTS OR DISABILITIES WHATSOEVER?
YES
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED OR DETAINED IN ANY TIME BY ANY MILITARY AUTHORITY? IF SO NAME THE ARRESTING AUTHORITY, GIVE TIME, PLACE AND REASONS FOR SUCH ARREST OR DETENTION, AND THE DISPOSITION OR COUNT ACTION.
YES
MINIMUM ACCEPTABLE SALARYS
PER YR.
REFERENCES, NOT RELATED TO YOU BY BLOOD OR MARRIAGE, WHO ARE PARTICULARLY QUALIFIED TO SUPPLY INFORMATION RESPECTING YOUR CHARACTER AND ABILITY. DO NOT GIVE NAMES OF SUPERVISORS LISTED ABOVE.
IF THE ABOVE SPACE IS NOT SUFFICIENT USE CONTINUATION SHEET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

TITLE OF YOUR POSITION
M
Healt
STARTING
PEA VAS
AOMI
Office Clerck
OF YOUR POSITICIO SALARY GR EARNINGS
STARTING 100
FINAL
5
INGS
YPOCITION
ANY CALARN
PEA YA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SUPPLEMENTARY PERSONAL INFORMATION
FLIGHT CREW
Name and Rank: CAPT Antonio Soto
I. General Flying Experience:
A. Military Flying: 2400 hrs
B. ...: 400 hrs
C. ...: ...
II. Equipment Types and Flying Times

|                             | PILOT      | COPILOT    | OTHER CREW |          |
| --------------------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ---------- | -------- |
|                             | (IN HOURS) | (IN HOURS) | TITLE      | IN HOURS |
| A.  C47                     |            |            |            |          |
| B.  C54                     |            |            |            |          |
| C.  DC6/VC-54               |            |            |            |          |
| D.  DC8-3                   |            |            |            |          |
| E.  Jet Transport (by type) |            |            |            |          |
| F.  Advance Multi (by type) |            |            |            |          |
| G.  Flying Boat (by type)   |            |            |            |          |
| H.  Helicopter (by type)    |            |            |            |          |
| I. ...                      |            |            |            |          |
| J.  C118/R6D                |            |            |            |          |
| K.  C121-758                |            |            |            |          |

III. TOTAL FLYING TIME: 2800 hrs / 1268 hrs
IV. Total Instrument Time: 145 hrs
V. Total Night Time: 400 hrs
VI. Total Flying Time in Past Six Months: 145 hrs
VII. Aviation Licenses & Ratings

| Type | Number | Ratings |
| ---- | ------ | ------- |
|      |        |         |
|      |        |         |
|      |        |         |
|      |        |         |

VIII. Statement of an Applicant may well be influenced by the type and amount of ground and flight training received. To assist in evaluating your overall qualifications it is important that you endeavor to submit documentary evidence, in a thorough and detailed manner, of all training received during the past three years period. (This information may be submitted in the form of notarized statements, photocopies, etc.)

IX. Are you willing to be based at any station at the discretion of the Company? Yes No

X. Understand misrepresentation or omission of fact requested is cause for dismissal.

3/25/61
DATE

SIGNATURE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)