# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO: Chief, WHD

INFO: Chief, SAS; Chief of Station, WAVE

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Contact Report/LITAMIL-9

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

PERUMEN LITAMIL 9

Attached herewith are contact reports of meetings with LI TAMIL-9

(on 17 and 29 July 1963.

Willard C CURTIS

Attachment:

Contact Report

Distribution:

2 - C/WHD w/2/att

2 - C/SAS w/a/att

2 - COS WAVE w/2/att

3 - Files

> GROUP 1
> Excluded from automatic
> downgrading and
> declassification

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA 21849

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

31 July 1963

HQS FILE NUMBER

201 - 330173


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 14-00000

10 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

FROM:

SUBJECT: Meeting re LI/LCI-1-9; 17 July 1963

1. An unexpected meeting was held with LITAMEL-3 at 2105 hours 17 July -- Barker had a scheduled meeting with AMSAIL-1 at the corner of Ejercioty Nacional and Filichor Ocampo at 2100 hours but A-1 was late. In place at 2103 when B's car pulled around past --3 then stopped by the corner of Gutenberg and Thiers, where there is a pay phone -- to make a call to A-1 -- but as B's car pulled up and stopped out of sight.

A-l -- but as B's car pulled up.

2 got in the car and [illegible] drove away --(2) explained that he had called B's home and Barker had spoken with his B's wife who said p...but would probably be back in about half an hour was certain (from the pay phone at Gutenberg & Thiers -- usual pick up point) then he saw Barker pass by -- later spotted the car pull up at the corner -- assumed by this time that Barker had spoken with his B's wife, and received the word that L/W was looking for him that night -- a coincidence. (L-9) explained his presence in the area (partly true) by saying he was waiting for a better pick up pointer -- (with A-1). Informed him that another scheduled meeting (with A-1). Informed him that another scheduled meeting on Queretaro highway to the vicinity of the Darm Hotel where he was to hold. (L-9) was dropped off at 2325 hours.

2. revealed again his concern about security -- how the US embassy and cultural committee are such sharp people; hence must make more dangerous. The elements of a complete clandestine communications system were explained re scheduled and non-scheduled; survey and warning- and something made in working out the details.

3. L/ reported that the inauguration at the 25 or 26th of July in [illegible] community la Modelo de Comales. It commonly known as the Inglesia de Comales, right at 20 July. I will leave about 21 July; stay in Infiernillo about 21 July; stay in Infiernillo two weeks.

4. He reported additional developments:

(a) A big [illegible] of the 26th of July anniversary will be held in Infiernillo in the suburb of Tampico. This celebration -- The Campo del Tampico 1935-63 will take place in the Colonia, also colonia will take place in the Colonia, also colonia Marco Corelia (Primary). The principal speaker for RICO salons. The event will take place at infiernillo.

L-9 wants to know who will be photographing there and might be able to dig up a stink bomb or something.

(b) Editor, La Pausa, who was introduced to Jacquoline K. Heby did make his trip to Mexico. He support his card and who opportunity plays me interviews on us. States and is now time to go there.(?) -- no further details.

Secrets to HAMMAN LI8497 CS COPY 601.329609


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 14-00000

She was introduced to the First Lady by (fnu) BARRIOS
Sam (Chontico).

(c) A.D. HECIO, the new Cultural Counselor, told (fnu) that
(fnu) (ph), Cuban Ambassadors in Moscow is trying to
be recalled soon because he has done much harm there to
Cuban-Soviet relations.

(d) AFWL also reported that the remaining DGI/MININT in Cuba
is having serious trouble obtaining newsprint.

(e) APARICIO said that when he was in Prague he had trouble
with the elite - asked to be sent to some other European
country - was surprised at the suddenness of his transfer
to Mexico.

(f) (In response to a question as to who should be the man to
be most openly to recruit among the Embassy staff?) (said)
he has doubts about JORRIN's loyalty to the Castro Regime
Believes JORRIN might be recruitable but wouldn't dare do
it himself (assured Lowe would never advise him to undertake
such a risky venture).
OVERLID goes window shopping along
San Juan de Letran often - might be approachable there,

(g) Only two Cubans were invited to the French Ambassadors
residence on Bastille Day (14 July) - Ambassador HERRENMANN
and wife. Each went separately but I remained in the
Ambassadors suite. The Amb was obviously impressed with DGI
Lt. Col French Military Attache to whom he introduced the Amb
(and the fact that I by his side during the all-night
'Legion of French'). At this affair, DUHAMEL of the Soviet
Embassy, was talking in a superficial manner of international
award and it became clear that the Cuban Amb was ill.
of the Soviets in the degree he was with the Chinese.
HERRENMANN remark. I that he would be leaving soon but would be
replaced with "another young man, a sort of cleanup I am."
Amb added that DGI/MININT is definitely for
government - the only one in Argentinan Government it is
advancing there in fact they are hunting for the military.

(h) Mr. Ecuadorean youth named ULSESA BONILLA was in the Embassy
on 17 July - spoke with AMARILLO.
will probably get them, to be to co to Cuba
It brought a to: as a gift for AMOARILLO.

(i) ADA TORO is busy working on the forthcoming Congress of
Americans which is to take place in Panama. In dealing
with a man named LLAMA on those matters. Davies
brought up that the US Government has been paying the lots
should have sort of the coloring. If he same
such perception later expressed by Mexican delegates to
Washington, has been sent to Havana.

(j) That the Embassy seemed unduly annoyed by restrictions
on currency transactions with Cubans.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

(c) Dturned over to E (for return) a handbill put out by the Eacola Normal Rural de Santa Terobi Joahuila, dated 10 Jice 1963, explaining that schools invitation 16 Fidel Castro to act as sponsor of the 1958-1963 graduating class. Copy attached.

(1) I turned over a pornographic cartoon (for return) distributed by pro-Castro elements in Tampico. Copy not attached.

(m) Ilfredo of the Cuban Consulate, Tampico, reported that Lic CALDERON has a sister residing in Reynosa, Tam married to an American of Mexican descent, Luisa may cup to the border to visit her sister soon-- or her nother may make the trip -- details not clear.

5. L-9 reports that he is very well "in" with the now ambassador who seems to respect him highly and to admire him for has contacts. He is also getting along very nicely with his new boss, APARICIO. His information gathering method is still to keep his eyes and ears open and ask no questions -thus he often gets only fragments while questions or discrest elicitati might fill in detail ho is extrazely vary lest he arouse any suspicion,

6. While he suppeste Wight want to toss a few stink bombs as diy engraving exhibit on the 20th Tampico and the subsequent celebration of the 26th in Chudai Madara - ho was also concerned lect any disruption night get him in trouble sera he in the principal organizer of both affairs felt that the Mexican Government might think the disruption was enginesred by the Castro Cubs, themselves, to throw suspicion ca the anti-castroftes.

7. L-9 is really worried about his security and it will be to to take every prasti precaution to protect hin. He loves to quite a conversatier dist and needa constant encouragement and shoring-up. He is an inclined that himself on the back quite often and wast for a further pat from his case cfficer (shich B is almaje quick to add). This characteristic es cut his conversation wich Is stops and says, "I did very well there idni 1?" or "That was a good I cad, wasn't it?" or "think my ideas on handling such-and-such are pretty clever, don't you?"

8. For the present it has been decided to keep holding moetings Dis car- always at night. The pick up point has been abandoned in favor of a mobile pick up --ill start at the comor of Thiers and Molchor Ocampo at the prescribed hour ad o slowly up the street to Thiors and Gutenborg -- then, without tar gry will work his way back down the opposito cids the street to Melhor Compo will cruise by in his car and make the pick up while Lis waling. Other como details will be worked out at the nu meeting.

VIDRET

201-329609


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)