104-10215-10125 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMO FOR THE STUDENT FILE

FROM: Rufus A. Horn, Jr.

CONFIDENTIAL

11 February 1958

This folder contains information on the 41 American students that went from the Moscow Youth Festival to China. The information was prepared for FE-2 CE working purposes. The material has not been carded, and the material is non-record, and should be destroyed sometime before 1 January 1959.

![signature]

DISTRIBUTION:
1. For student file

CONFIDENTIAL

CS COPY

200-8-14


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

22
OCT
1957

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FE-2 CE

SUBJECT: File-check Results of the American Students in China

1. Cursory file-checks have been conducted on the American students that went from the Moscow Youth Festival to China and the results are attached hereto.

2. The file-checks are by no means complete, for they were conducted only for the purpose of determining the subject's political doctrines.

![signature of Rufus A. Horn]
Rufus A. Horn

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:

1 - Chief, FE-2 GE w/attachment student file

1 - IO Div. w/attachment

2 - Originator w/attachment

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

1

American Student in China

K
ALHANOTE, Louis

Residence - Brooklyn, New York

Passport No. 618189 issued 3/5/57

Y:CSA. Photo
AttachEo

File Check Results

MIS-CARD to All NAMES: Frio141minicy Studen to that we wil ofte in the

Louis Alhanote, in 1954, visited the Soviet and Polish United Nations
Delegation, in New York City. As of 1950, the subject was a subscriber to the "Daily Worker". In August 1952, the subject was a signer of the Nominating Petition that was circulated in behalf of Communist leader Simon W. Gerson, Representative in Congress, Thirteenth Congressional District, New York City. In 1949, the subject made application for membership into the Young Progressives of America. In 1951, a play "Longitude 49" was put on by the New Playwrighters, Tec, at the Czechoslovak House, New York City, the subject was a participant in this play. The subject, in 1955, was a member of the Labor Youth League of New York City. (DFB-88463, 20 August 1957.)

> [Figure: Portrait of Louis Alhonote]

(over)

LOUIS ALHO NOTE
4/22/55

ALHONOTE, Louis


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

## SECRET

2. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Louis Alhonote:

"Louis ALHONOTE, from Brooklyn, was mentally ill and had been told by a doctor that he was paranoic. Once in a meeting of the American group when one of the other members disagreed with him, he dashed a glass cup against the wall. On a second such occasion, he threw a glass cup at Jake ROSEN, which caused Rosen to have three stitches in his chin and five in his biceps.. This second incident was hushed up only with difficulty because the Chinese authorities learned of it when a doctor was called."

SECRET

ALHONOTE, Louis


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# American Student in China

2

AVEDISIAN, Sahag

Photo AttachED
Residence - Pawtucket, R.I.
Passport No. 472013 issued 4/24/57
File Check Results

1.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow).

2.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

3.  00-B-3093654 (FLEETWOOD for) comes from Arodisan.
    It is almost worthless. (Pace from 0.0. Bater)

4.  WFB. 95128, 6 Dec 57, is in uryaton Sahag Arodisan ((sory, lurry)).  "

5.  Din O'Connell, a member of the george, had the following to say about the subject: "... not well educated; not intelligent enough to form soon. opinions but at end of trips did stick ups for the communist system; not believed to have had much association with communist movement."
    before the tiys." OFB-97144, 23 January 1958.

(over)

AVEDISIAN, Sahag


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Sahay Avidisian said he was not a Communist and never had been, when questioned by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, on 21 November 1957. (New York Times, 22 November 1957)

> [Figure: Photograph of Sahag Avedisian]
> ![photo of Sahag Avedisian]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

American Student in China

BELFRAGE, Sally
2.0.3-4 Oct 1936
USA
Photo AHACHED
File Check Results
Residence - London/New York, New York
Passport No. 9728 issued 1/20/56

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2.  Sally M. Belfrage, born on 4 October 1936, is the daughter of Cedric Hinning Belfrage. Cedric was er is the editor of the publication, "National Guardian," with offices located at 17 Murray Street, New York City. He was reported to be a Communist Party member in England; served as a Soviet spy in 1942 or 1943, while he was attached to British Intelligence in New York City; he and his wife admitted being Communists in 1937 or 1938; he held a Communist Party membership card in Hollywood, California, in 1937 or 1938; he has been a close associate of Soviet agents and known Communists and Communist sympathizers in the United States and in Europe, since 1937; he has attended and spoken at numerous Communist Party front organization functions; he has made pro-Russian statements and disparaging remarks about the United States. (DFB-26627, 11 May 1953)

3.  Sally Belfrage's father, Cedric Belfrage, is a British subject who was deported from the United States and now resides at 16 Talbot Square, London, England. (DFB-90733, 27 September 1957)

4.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88476.

(over)

SECRET
BELFRAGE, Sally


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

5. Sally Belfrage's father, Cedric Belfrage, is a British-born magazine writer who was deported from the United States in 1955, and is now writing from Communist China. Komsomol Pravda on 10 September 1957 reprinted part of an article by Belfrage from the magazine Chinese Youth. The article echoed the Peiping line by charging the United States with holding dozens of Chinese students and refusing them visas except for Formosa.

> [Figure: Photo of Sally M. C. Belfrage, with "SALLY M. C. BELFRAGE 11/7/55 SECRET BELFRAGE, Sally" written on the attached label.]
> ![photo of Sally M. C. Belfrage]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

American Student in China

☑ BLOCK, Morris D.0.3-3 March. 1920
20.2. NEW YORK NEW YORK
CIT-US.A. Photo AHAcIED
Residence- New York File Check Results
Passport No. 921617 issued 4/12/56

1.  The IO Division's informants that attended the Moscow
    Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger.
    (IO Div.)

2.  A report dated 29 October 1956, indicated that M. BLOCK,
    1718 Grand Avenue, New York City, had indicated a desire to travel
    to Czechoslovakia. It was not known whether or not he had actually
    filed for a satellite visa. (DFB-73259, 19 November 1956, p. 4.)

3.  Morris BLOCK, residing at 421 7th Avenue, New York,
    New York, was listed as a reference by Grigory Lvovich SCHIFRIN
    on his visa application in 1954. SCHIFRIN was reported to have been
    linked with narcotic and diamond smuggling in 1946, (FJYA-5693,
    22 March 1954.)

4.  Morris S. BLOCH of 421 Seventh Avenue, New York City
    had known Rachel BELLIN since 1935 according to a report dated 11
    August 1953. Rachel BEILIN was believed to have formerly engaged
    in trafficking drugs in Shanghai and been involved in Russian espionage..
    As of August 1953, Rachel BEILIN was residing with her husband
    Alexander, at 1566 Macombs Road, Bronx, New York. (DFB-29039,
    20 August 1953.)

5.  Morris BLOCK, born 30 March 1920, New York, New York,
    was among those on a list of persons denied security clearances pur-
    suant to Executive Order 10173 as amended, dated 12 October 1953.

6.  It has been reported that a certain Morris BLOCK, born 30
    March 1920 at New York, and his wife, Mollie BLOCK, aged 37, United
    States Nationals, arrived on 16 April 1949 at Southampton from New York
    en route to Gdynia in the Polish S. S. Batory. Their destination was
    believed to be Warsaw. According to a reliable informant, who travelled

BLOCK, Morris

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECP

- 2 -

with them from New York, BLOCK and his wife endeavoured to get permission to hold a public meeting on board during the crossing, but when this was refused they contented themselves by holding a small meeting in the Tourist lounge on the morning of 9 April. In the course of this meeting both BLOCK and his wife spoke very disparagingly of the Atlantic Pact and from the tone of their remarks, the informant gained the impression that they were Communists. (WELA-2326, 9 May 1949 and OSDB-16157.)

![photo of Morris Block]

MERRIS BLOCK
3-26-56

BLOCK, Morris

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

7. Morris Block invoked the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination when he was asked if he was a Communist by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, on 21 November 1957. (New York Times, 22 November 1957)

SECRET

BLOCK, Morris


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

American Student in China

BLOKSBERG, Harry D.0.B-6 JUNE 1937
OCP-APPRENTICE tool MAKERFile Check Results
CIT-USA.
Residence - Trenton, New Jersey Photo Attached
Passport No. 454479 issued 4/15/57

1. The 10 Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was instrumental in applying pressure to make the Americans, that did not give up their passports at the Chinese frontier, give their passports to the Chinese in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3. Harry Irving Bloksberg, born 6 June 1937, resides in Newark, New Jersey and is employed as an apprentice tool maker. His parents, Gabriel and Bertha Bloksberg, were described as Communist Party members. The subject is a member of the Labor Youth League (LYL) which is a Communist organization. He attended Camp Midvale, which is owned and operated by the Metropolitan Recreation Association (MRA), on occasions during 1955. In 1956, the subject was named to a committee that was organized to make plans for the Communist MRA Youth Group. (DFB-86649, 16 July 1957.)

(over)
BLOKSBERG, Harry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

4.  Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Harry Bloksberg:

"Harry BLOKSBERG's father pleaded the 5th Amendment in 1954 and was subsequently thrown out of a hearing for causing a disturbance. Harry apparently tooi. some pride in this, as he carried with him a clipping about the incident which he read to members of the group." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

> [Figure: Photo of Harry Irving Bloksberg.]
> The subject is a fair-skinned man with short dark hair and dark eyes. He is wearing a dark suit jacket over a light-colored shirt and tie.

BLOKSBERG, Harry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

5. Harry Bloksberg invoked the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination when he was asked if he was a Communist by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, on 21 November 1957. (New York Times, 22 November 1957)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

American Student in China

5

BRONSTEIN, Eugene
CIT-USA
File Check Results
Photo ATTACHED
Residence New York
Passport No. A-757784 issued 6/28/56

1.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.
2.  Dan O'Connell, a member of the grange, had the following to say about the subject: "... came to Moscow by himself; not believed to have had previous communist affiliation; it end of trip's appeared to be sympathetic toward the communist movement." DFB-97144, 23 January 1958.

![photo of Eugene Bronstein]

EUGENE BRONSTEIN
6/27/56

BRONSTEIN, Eugene


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

American Student in China

7

CARAWAN, Guy Hughes, Jr.

CIT- U.S.A.

Photo Attached

File Check Results

Residence - Los Angeles

Passport No. 43499 issued 5/8/56

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Div.)

2.  The AP correspondent in Moscow reported that the subject and Peggy Suger would return to the U. S. S. R. for an estensive folk-singing tour. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.  Guy Carawan, Jr. was the sponsor of a program entitled "Call to National Student Conference for Academic Freedom of Equality and Peace, University of Wisconsin, April 25, 26, and 27, 1952". The subject and his wife, Noel attended camp festivals that were sponsored by the Jewish Young Fraternalists in 1954. The camp festivals were held on property that belongs to the International Workers Order. The subject attended an affair that was given by Peoples Songs in Los Angeles, on 18 February 1950. Peoples Songs is an organization that was organized and directed by the Los Angeles County Communist Party. On 8 November 1954, Peoples Artists, Inc. a Communist front organization, gave a farewell party for the subject. Guy Carawan signed a petition that was addressed to Chief Justice Vinson requesting that the U.S. Supreme Court consider the cases concerning the "Hollywood 10". (DFB-88500, 20 August 1957.)

4.  Guy Carawan attended a party at the home of Bart and Edna Van der Schelling on the night of 28 August 1953. The persons in attendance were members of the American Communist group in Mexico City. Carawan was described as the son of wealthy parents who has been working at a Quaker encampment some place near Mexico City. Carawan has now decided to dedicate his life to "singing the folk songs of the common people". (DFB-88501, 20 August 1957.)

(over)

CARAWAN, Guy Hughes, Jr.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECRET

> [Figure: Photo of Guy Hughes Carawan, Jr.]
> The photo shows a light-skinned man with dark hair, wearing a light-colored collared shirt, centered and taped to a piece of paper. "SECRET" is stamped at the top of the paper.

GUY HUGHES CARAWAN, Jr.
4/27/56

SECRET CARAWAN, Guy Hughes, Jr.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRE

American Student in China

CARAWAN, Noel OLIVER
CIT-USA.
Residence - Los Angeles
Passport No. 43500 issued 5/8/56

1.  Subject's full name was reported to be Noel Oliver CARAWAN. (DFB-88814, 21 August 1957.)

2.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Div.)

3.  For derogatory information on the subject and her husband Guy Hughes Carawan. Jr., see the report entitled "CARAWAN, Guy Hughes, Jr.".

> [Figure: A black and white photograph of a woman with short hair smiling.]

OLIVER CARAWAN
4/17/56

SECRET

CARAWAN, Noel


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# SECRET

American Student in China

9
FJZW-2233/1
10 mer. 58

COHEN, Robert Carl, D.0.3-24 Sept. 1930. P.8-Philadelphia, PENN. File Check Results

CIT.U.S.A
Residence Los Angeles Photo AttachED

1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist and had also refused to surrender his passport at the Chinese frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3. Robert Carl Cohen was born 24 September 1930, at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In 1947, the subject was reported to be residing in Los Angeles, California. In 1946, the subject was assigned to the Walt Whitman Club of the American Youth for Democracy. The subject's father is Isadore Cohen. An Isadore Cohen, not otherwise identified, was in April 1951, a member of the Los Angeles County Communist Party and the President of I odge 251 of the International Workers Order. (DFB-89875, 12 September 1957.)

4. The IO Division, in a cable to Tokyo and Hong Kong,, stated that Robert Cohen and Orville Schmidt were probably the most reliable members of the students that were visiting China. (DIR-35428, OUT-89863, 13 September 1957.)

CASIC DOCUMENT FILED IN 200-8-14

(over)


ABSTRACT XINDEX

CS COPY

SECRET

COHEN, Robert Carl
201-197821
10 mer. 58


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

SECRET

5. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Robert Cohen:

"Robert COHEN was sending reports of the group's travels to NBC; O'Connell said that he planned to write NBC a letter telling them what a poor choice they had made. O'Connell described Cohen as intelligent but overbearing, and probably the most unpopular member of the group. He admitted that he had been a pimp in San Francisco, and was rather proud of the fact that in 1939 -- at the age of 9 -- he had been stoned while marching in a May Day parade. Steve Tyler told O'Connell that Cohen had been residing in Paris and that he known there as a "violent left-winger". O'Connell could not understand the fact that Cohen at some previous time had been in the Army in security work for the Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

6. Robert Cohen departed Pari Air France midnight 1 Dec for Idlewild arriving morning 2 Dec. Concerned about procedure at Idlewild re passports. Attempting to arrange to be met by sufficient people to forestall a passport incident. (Pari 0169, IN 40350), 28 Nov '57)

> [Figure: A black and white photograph of Robert Carl Cohen.]

ROBERT CARL COHEN
11/1/55

COHEN, Robert Carl
201-197821


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# SECRET
(When Filled In)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                   |                     |          |
| ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | ------------------- | -------- |
| COHEN, Radut Carl                               | 2. RI FILE NO. 201-197821                 |                     |          |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. FJZW-2233 | 4. DATE 10 mar 58                         |                     |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                             | 8. DATE OF INFO 9. EVALUATION             |                     |          |
| 5. ANALYST bst                                  | 6. DATE PROCESSED 8-JUN 1965              | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE                 | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                      |                     |          |
|                                                 | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO- 201-197821 |                     |          |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

Dec. remoted and reprocessed for 201-197821 (COHEN, Robert Carl).

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

American Student in China

10

COLLINS, Judy
CIT-USA
File Check Results
Photo AHACHED
Residence - San Francisco
Passport No. 270636 issued 1/9/57

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Div.)

2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-86248.

3. Ron O'Connell, a member of the groupe, had the following to say about the subject; "...; didn't appear to be very similar with Communuism; associated with the pro-Commun'st elemention the tus; very naive and nota good thinker; seemed very impressed by the hip and by the Communist system." DFB-97144, 23/Jan/58.

![photo of judith collins]

JUDITH COLLINS
1956

(over)

COLLINS, Judy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECRET

American Student in China

DANIELS, Ben
CIT-U.S.A
Residence - Los Angeles
Photo AttachED File Check Results
Passport No. 518654 issued 6/12/57

1.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

> [Figure: Photo of Benjamin Max Daniels]
> ![Photo of Benjamin Max Daniels]

BENJAMIN MAX DANIELS
6/7/57

(over)

DANIELS, Ben


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

3. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Ben Daniels:

"Ben DANIELS, who exited China through Burma, took many photographs on the tour (see ALUSLO Hong Kong telegram to DNI, 11 October 1957)."
(Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957)

4. Ben O'Connell, a member of the group, had the following to say about the subject: ... at the end of the tryouts, sticking up for the communist system; physically weak and does not have a strong will power. OFB-97144, 23 Jan 58.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

12

American Student in China

FIDERER, Jerry
CIT-USA.
Do.3-4 April 1933
F.O.B-NEW YORK NEW YORKFile Check Results
Residence Brooklyn, New York
Passport No. 20123 issued 4/26/56 Photo Attached

1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Macao Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is far left. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3. The meeting of the Young Progressives of America that was scheduled to meet on 5 March 1953, did not take place due to the fact that only a few people attended; of the few that attended was one Gerald L. Fiderer. (DFB-65050, 19 June 1956.)

4. Gerald Lionel Fiderer, who resided at Brooklyn, New York, was not inducted into the United States Army on 27 November 1956, because he had a schizophrenic personality. (DFB-75071, 26 December 1956.)

5. Gerald Lionel Fiderer was born 4 April 1933 at New York, New York. In 1953, he was reported to have had "recurring emotional difficulties". He has been registered and publicly known as the General Secretary of the Labor Youth League (LYL) Chapter at the University of Wisconsin since 1955, and has been present at all public meetings of the LYL Chapter that has been held in Madison since September 1955. He was also reported as being present at an organizing committee meeting of the Young Progressives of America that was held in Madison in March 1953. The subject, (apparently as of 1956) the vice-president of the LYL at the University of Wisconsin, participated in a public debate on behalf of the LYL on 19 April 1956, in Madison, in which he defended Marxism, criticized the "War Economy" of the United States, claimed that the elections in East Germany "are free", and claimed that reports on the recent Communist Party Congress in the U. S. S. R. were distorted in the United States newspapers. (DFB-70056, 20 September 1956.)

FIDERER, Jerry

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

- 2 -

6. Gerald Lionel Federer was dropped from the rolls of the University of Wisconsin because of poor grades in his classes. The subject was in contact with Sigmund Eisenscher the State Chairman of the Communist Party in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The subject apparently returned to New York on 1 July 1956. (DFB-71805, 24 October 1956.)

> [Figure: A photograph of a man]
> (Over)
> GERALD L. FEDERER

SECRET

FIDERER, Jerry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

7. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Jerry Fiderer:

"Jerry FIDERER, a chemist, is definitely a Marxist thinker, but possibly not a Communist Party member." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

American Student in China

13

GOLDSTEIN, Ninel

CIT-U.S.A.

Residence - Brooklyn, New York
Passport No. 69190 issued 5/23/56

File Check Results

*Photo Attached*

Ninel E. Goldstein visited the Tass News Agency, New York City on 20 March 1955. The subject resided at 2670 Colby Court, Brooklyn, New York. She allegedly belongs to a Communist Party Youth Group in New York City. Her father, Alfredo Henley, was identified as a Communist Party member; her stepmother, Lillian Henley, was employed at the Soviet Embassy in 1954; her aunt and uncle, Ruth and Harry Fisher, was employed with the Tass News Agency, in New York City, and her uncle, Zol Tan Deak, was described as a recognized Communist. (DFB-88449, 15 August 1957.)

> [Figure: A photo of Ninel Goldstein with a placard beneath the photo stating "NINEL E. 5/18/56" and "GOLDSTEIN, Ninel"]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECRET

## American Student in China

14

GOODMAN, Faye
CIT-USA.
Residence - New York
Photo Attached
File Check Results
Passport No. 473652 issued 4/23/57

1.  No pertinent information was available on the subject.

2.  Don O'Connell, a member of the group, had the following to say about the subject; pre-communist; appeared to come from a poor working family and indicated her parents believed communism was the answer for the working class. "OFB-97144," 23 January 1958.

> [Figure: Photo of Faye Goodman with date 4/17/57]
> A black and white photograph shows Faye Goodman. The writing "FAYE GOODMAN 4/17/57" is written at the bottom of the image.

SECRET

GOODMAN, Faye


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

15

American Student in China

*GRAB, Fred Photo AttachED File Check Results
CIT-USA.
Residence - Vienna (formerly) now Alexandria, Virginia
Passport No. 73458 issued 5/24/56

1. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88472.

3. Dan O'Connell, a member of the groups, had the following to say about the subject: ... *presumably a socialist, don't think he believed in Communism but did believe in socialism and like the immer to all problems*...; DFB-

9714

![photo of Frederick D. Grab]

FREDERICK D. GRAB
5/9/56

GRAB, Fred


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# SECRET

## American Student in China

16

GRANT, Joanne

CIT-USA

Residence - New York

File Check Results

Photo AHACHED

Passport No. 473761 issued 4/24/57

1.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist and had also refused to surrender her passport at the Chinese frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2.  The Peking CHINA YOUTH NEWS carried in its 5 October 1957, issue an article by Joanne Grant, giving her impression of her visit to China. She had the following to say in her article:

"You can see the future through the Chinese people. You can obtain a firm conviction that China will continuously advance forward. As a western visitor, nothing impressed me more than the great power of this country. Every person in New China is very modest but has great pride; they are united, have self-respect, and respect each other. No one can overlook China's advance; it is to be regretted that many people do not have the opportunity to observe it personally. I like Shanghai very much, because from the way Shanghai has changed I can really understand New China. In the old Shanghai, except for the Chinese, everyone had special privileges. However, everything has changed greatly. I am of the opinion that from this, one can see the miracles which have begun in this great country."

3.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

SECRET

GRANT, Joanne


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

SECRET

- 2 -

4 Joanne Grant has written for "Rights," a pamphlet sponsored by the Emergency Civil Liberties Committee (ECLC). The subject was among those invited to the ECLC "Bill of Rights" dinner that was given on 15 December 1954. In October 1953, she contacted the American Committee For Protection of Foreign Born and in October 1956, the subject's name and address was in possession of the Socialist Workers Party. (DFB-92684, 23 October 1957)

![photo of Joanne A. Grant]

GRANT, JOANNE A.

SECRET

GRANT, Joanne


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

American Student in China

17

GREENBERG, Sheila
CIT-USA.
Residence New York
File Check Results

Photo Attached

Passport No. 98843 issued 6/11/56

1. RI has a 201 file on the subject, however, there is no material in the file.

> [Figure: Photo of SHEILA GREENBERG with a caption that reads SHEILA GREENBERG 5/11/56]
> ![photo of SHEILA GREENBERG]

GREENBERG, Sheila

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

SECRET

-2-

2. Sheila Greenberg invoked the Fifth Amendment against self-incrimination when she was asked if she was a Communist by the House Committee on Un-American Activities, on 21 November 1957. (New York Times, 22 November 1957)

3. [Illegible text] O'Connell, a member of [Illegible text], declared the following [Illegible text] about the subject...... definitely pro-Communist. DFB-97144, 23 January 1958.

SECRET GREENBERG, Sheila


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

SECRET

American Student in China

18

HAMILTON, Betty
CIT-O.S.A
Residence - New York
Passport No. 184522 issued 9/11/56
File Check Results
Photo ATTACHED.

1. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist and had also refused to surrender her passport at the Chinese frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-886031.

3. Hon O'Connell, a member of the group, had the following to say about the subject: "...; described as a liberal; sold on the Communist agitation during the time; believed most of the things she heard. However, appeared that she would never actively work for Communism in the U.S." DFB-57144, 23, February 1958.

![photo of Betty Ann Hamilton]

HAMILTON, Betty


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

SECRET

1.9

American Student in China

HOCKMAN, Sam
CIT-U.S.A.
Residence - New York
Passport No. 746706 issued 1/30/57

File Check Results
Photo AHACKED

1. Shelby TUCKER, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was the most effective anti-Communist in the group and that he had also refused to surrender his passport at the Chinese frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957 from Moscow.)

2. The FBI in answer to a file check request, from the State Department regarding some of the individuals that attended the Moscow Youth Festival, replied that their records failed to disclose any identifiable data of a subversive nature concerning Samuel E. Hockman of Trenton, New Jersey. (DFB-88829, 21 August 1957.)

3. S. Hockman was an assistant to the director of the Jewish Legion, of 21 Hyde Park Street, London, W. Z., The Jewish Legion was reported to be a subversive organization. (WEL-3908, 26 Feb 48.)

4. S. Hockman departed Pari Air France midnight 1 Dec. for Idlewild arriving morning 2 Dec. Concerned about procedure at Idlewild re passports. Attempting arrangements to be met by sufficient people to forestall a passport Incident. Fears contempt Congress charge, says he will not plead fifth Amendment but will refuse to give information on other China travelers. (Pafi 0169, (IN 40350), 28 Nov '57)

> [Figure: Headshot of Samuel Edward Hockman]
> ![photo of Samuel Edward Hockman]

SAMUEL EDWARD HOCHMAN
8/1/55

HOCKMAN, Sam


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

SECRET

American Student in China

20

HOLLISTER, David
CIT-U.S.A.
Residence - New York
Passport No. 211858 issued 5/2/56

File Check Results

*Photo AHACHED*

1. David Manship Hollister, residing in New York City, was rejected from military service on 18 September 1951, because of a schizoid personality. Records dated September 1951, indicated that the subject had received professional care for dementia praecox in 1950 and 1951, and that the subject had admitted heterosexual and homosexual experiences until about March 1951. In 1952, the subject was registered with the American Labor Party. The subject's mother, Ruth Manship Hollyster, reportedly was a member of the Los Angeles Communist Party. In 1947 and 1948, the subject was a member of the Harvard Youth for Democracy. The subject was also believed to be a secret member of the Communist Party in 1947. (DFB-86787, 18 July 1957.)

2. The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate, the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-86248.

![photo of David Hollister]

HOLLISTER, David

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET

American Student in China

21

HOXSEY, Dean Cornelius
CIT-US.A
Residence Los Angeles
Passport No. 619885 issued 7/19/57
File Check Results
Photo Attached

1. The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2. Dean Hoxsey who originally applied for permission to remain in the U. S. S. R. now states that he is eager to remain in China after his interview with the American expatriates WILLS and WHITE in Peking. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that WILLS was thinking of returning to the US and that WHITE was completely brainwashed. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3. Dean Hoxsey was recruited into the Communist Party in May 1944, and was assigned to the East Los Angeles Communist Party Club. In August 1949, the subject advised a representative of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, in Los Angeles, California, that he had been reared in a home which was one of Communist influence, as his father, Lowell Hoxsey, had for many years been a member of the Socialist Party and in the 1930's had joined the Communist Party. (DFB-88557, 21 August 1957.)

> [Figure: Photo of HOXSEY, Dean Cornelius, JULY, 1957]

HOXSEY, Dean Cornelius


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

American Student in China

22

HYMAN, Elaine
CIT-USA
File Check Results
Photo AHAchED
Residence - Brooklyn
Passport No. 136094 issued 7/12/56...

Elaine Hyman, of 1240 Union Street, Brooklyn, New York, was believed to be on the Teenage Labor Youth League State Board, in August 1953. In 1944, Fay Hyman and William Hyman, parents of the_subject, were members of the Communist Party, Thomas Jefferson Group, 11th A. D., Kings County, Brooklyn, New York. William Hyman, father of the subject, was a delegate for the Communist Party, 11th A. D., to the United Labor and People's Conference for May Day, that was held in New York City, on 26 March 1949. (DFB-88471, 20 August 1957.)

![photo of Elaine Hyman]

ELAINE HYMAN
6/21/56

SECRET

YYMAN, Elaine


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

American Student in China

23

KIDDER, Noel Arthur

File Check Results

*Photo Attached*

CIT-U.S.A.

Residence - Los Angeles

Passport No. 113046 issued 6/30/56

1. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is a Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2. Noel Arthur Kidder, during an interview with a representative of the Counter Intelligence Corps, U. S. Army, in April 1956, stated that he would refuse to sign a Loyalty Oath if he were inducted into the armed services. Kidder attended functions that were sponsored by the Los Angeles Committee for the Protection of Foreign Born in 1956. He attended meetings of the Los Angeles County Labor Youth League (LYL) in 1956 and 1957. He was elected Vice President of the Los Angeles County LYL in January 1957. He attended the California State LYL Conference that was held in February 1957. In December 1956 he was reported to have stated that a violent class struggle and a revolution were certain to occur. A subscription to the "Daily People's World" was maintained in the name of Kidder in November 1956. (DFB-81948, 24 April 57)

3. Noel Arthur Kidder is married to Susan Toya Pollock. (DFB-83271, 15 May 57)

> [Figure: A black and white photograph of Noel Kidder, and documents stamped with his name and the date 6/13/56.]
> ![photo of Noel Kidder]

KIDDER, Noel Arthur


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

American Student in China

24

KIDDER, Susan Pollock

CIT-U.SA.

File Check Results

Photo AHACHED

Residence Los Angeles

Passport lio. 126723 issued 7/3/56

1.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is a Commmmist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2.  Sue Pollock, of 1700 Abermarle Road, Brooklyn, N. Y.. was mentioned as being one of Gustave Gilbert's contacts. (No further information was given as to who Gilbert was or what was meant by Sue being a contact). (DFB-14187, 13 Dec 51)

3.  For derogatory information on the subject and her husband, Noel Arthur Kidder, see the report entitled "KIDDER Noel Arthur."

![photo of SUSAN POLLOCK KIDDER]

SUSAN POLLOCK KIDDER

6/13/56

KIDDER Susan Pollock


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

SECRET

25

KUZNITZ, Elaine
CIT-U.S.A.
Residence - Los Angeles
Passport No. 135646 issued 7/12/56
American Student in China
Photo ATTACHED
File Check Results

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Division)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is a probable Communist. (State Department Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: IFB-86248.

> [Figure: Photo of Elaine Kusnitz]
> Portrait of a woman with shoulder length wavy hair.

ELAINE KUSNITZ
6-21-56

SECRET

KUZNITZ, Elaine


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET

American Student in China

26

LANDAU, Nina
CIT.-U.S.A.
Residence - New York
Photo AHACHED
File Check Results
Passport No. 488104 issued 6/7/57

As of October 1956, Nina Serrano Landau and her husband, Saul Landau, were students at the University of Wisconsin. Mr. and Mrs. Landau have been active in the Student Peace Center at the University of Wisconsin. This organization was registered at the University as being a social-action type of organization which was affiliated with the American Friends Service Committee. In its 1957 registration, the Studert Peace Center listed Nina Landau as secretary. In 1955, Saul Landau attended two public meetings that were sponsored by the Labor Youth League at the University of Wisconsin. Saul Landau was identified as having visited the Soviet Embassy, Washington, D. C., in March 1956, (DFB-88459, 20 August 1957.)

> [Figure: Photo of Nina Landau]
> ![Photo of Nina Landau]

NINA LANDAU
6/6/57

LANDAU, Nina

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SECRET

American Student in China

LANE, Dick
CIT-USA
Residence - Los Angeles
Passport No. 908260 issued 4/6/56

Photo AHACHED

File Check Results

27

1.  The SR Division briefed the subject prior to his attendance at the Moscow Festival. (DFB-89325, 30 August 1957.)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Department Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.  The following documents pertain to the subject, however, efforts to locate the documents have been unsuccessful: 201-193201, DFB-86248, and DFB-88603.

> [Figure: A black and white portrait photo of Richard Reno Lane]
> RICHARD RENO LANE
> 3/26/56
> OLONCI
> LANE, Dick

![photo of richard reno lane]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECRET

American Student in China

MARCH, William James
D.0.3-8 MAY 1939
P.0.B Chicago, Illinois
CIT-U.SA
Residence - Los Angeles
Passport No. 218671 Issued 10/8/56
File Check Results
Photo AHACHED

1. William James MARCH was born on 8 May 1939 in Chicago, Illinois. His parents are Herbert MARCH and Jane V. MARCH. The subject attended a meeting of the Labor Youth League (LYL) in 1955, as a prospective member. In February and March 1957, he attended a meeting of the Los Angeles County LYL, and was also in attendance at a California State LYL Conference. Subject's mother was a member of the Central Section, Moraula Smith Division, Los Angeles County Communist Party in October 1955. (DFB-88466, 20 Aug. 1957)

2. Information has been received that William James March left New York 8 June 1957, for Europe to attend the Youth Festival in Moscow during July and August, 1957. March's parents were listed as father Herbert MARCH, with aliases Herbert Fink and Harry Martin; and mother Jane V. March. (DFB-86667, 19 July 1957)

3. William James March was issued Los Angeles Series Passport #218671 on 10/8/56. In his application for this passport, the subject stated he intended to depart from the United States on 12/5/56 for a proposed length of stay abroad of two months in order to visit France, Italy and West Germany for the purpose of visiting relatives and seeing Italy. Subject answered no to questions "Are you now a member of the Communist Party?" and "Have you ever been a member of the Communist Party?" (DFB-87370, 27 July 1957)

![photo of William J. March, dated 10-4-56]

MARCH, William James


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# SECRET

American Student in China

28

MATTOX, Virginia Lee (Ginger)

CII-USA

Residence - San Francisco

Passport No. A-758615 issued 7/12/56

File Check Results

Photo Attached

1.  The 10 Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (10 Div.)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3.  Virginia Lee Mattox was born on 10 October 1937, at Los Angeles, California. On the subject's application for a passport she stated that she was not a member of the Communist Party and she had never been member of the Party. (DFB-85650, 28 June 57)

4.  In November 1955, Virginia Mattox attended a meeting of the California Labor Youth League (LYL) State Board meeting that was held in Los Angeles, California. In 1955, Ginger Mattox was the chairman of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Teen-Age Club of the San Francisco County LYL. On 16 April 1956, Virginia Mattox attended a lecture on the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union that was given by William Schneiderman the Chairman of the 13th District Communist Party of the U. S. A. (DFB-82103, 26 April 1957)

![photo of VIRGINIA LEE MATTOX in 1956]

MATTOX, Virginia Lee


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

American Student in China

29

MCKENNA, (Rev.) Warren occ-Theologian

CIT-USA

Residence - Boston

Passport No. 11791, issued 5/27/57 Photo Attached

1.  The IO Division's informants that attended the Moscow Festival were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (IO Div.)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was instrumental in applying pressure to make the Americans (that did not give up their passports at the Chinese frontier) give their passports to the Chinese in Peking. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513, 10 Sept. 57, from Moscow)

3.  The Reverend Warren H. McKENNA of St. John's Church, Roxbury, Mass., was identified as an active participant in a picket line sponsored by the Communist Party during the strike at the Bethlehem Steel Company, Boston, in Oct. 1947. (DFB-28535, 30 July 53).

4.  The name of Rev. Warren H. McKENNA was among those on a list contained in an article entitled "Penalties for Thinking Alarm U.S. Liberals." in the *Daily Worker* for 30 Oct. 1949. This article set forth that since the eleven Communist leaders had been found guilty, a great number of American church leaders had spoken out against the verdict of guilty. (DFB-889, 19 Jan. 1950, page 126)

5.  Subject reportedly accepted position as Assistant at a Church in Dalston, London, England and is expected to remain there two years. Informants advised that one Warren McKENNA, was a sponsor of the National Conference of American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born, December 1954 and December 1955; name appeared on card at Pittsburgh Civil Rights Congress, February, 1956; subject attended the meeting of the Civil Liberties Committee of Massachusetts in May 1955; the subject's name appeared on the mailing list of the Southern Conference Educational Fund in August 1954. Informants reported no current activity on the part of the subject. (DFB-63999, 30 April 1956.)

SECRET

MCKENNA, Rev. Warren


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

/ SECRET

6. One Warren MCKENNA was on a list of delegates to the Second World Peace Congress that was held in Harsaw from 16 to 23 Eovember 1950. (HDCA-890, 80-54896, 11 Jan. 1951)

7. A reliable informant in the Boston area furnished a copy of the first issue of a new publication entitled "Our Comson Concern," dated October 1950, published by Workers of the Common Life, at Roxbury, Massachusetts. The editors and publishers of this publication are Reverend Warren H. MCKENHA and Reverend Robert MUIR, both associated with the Massachusetts Action Cosmmittee for Peace. The instant issues of this publication features the Stockholm Peace Pledge and the address which Reverend Joseph FLETCHER of Cambridge, Massaciusetts, gave at the Winter Stadium at Ostrava, Czechoslovakia, on 16 August 1950, this speech also favored the Stockholm Peace Pledge. (DFB-6285, 22 Nov. 1950)

8. The Boston Chobe, a Boston newspaper, on 5 November 1948, carried an article entitled "Boston Group Plans Waleeme for 'Red Dean'". This ticle furnished information that a grog of prominent Bostonians had joined into a special "Committee of Welcome" for the Very Reverend Hewlett JOHREBOS, British Dean of Canterbury Cathedral, who was to visit at Boston after being refused a vise to enter the country the previous year.

The article continues, "Know as the 'Red Dean,' Dr. HENLETT will speak at Jordan Hall, Gainsborough St., November 16 at 8 pom." The article quoted Reverend Marren H. MCKENNA, the Minister of St. Joim's Episcopal Church, at Roxbury, Massachusetts, as saying, "Dean HSWLETT was refused a visa by the State Deparimant in 1947, because his invitation came from the National Council of American-Soviet Friendship. The State Department later recanted and permitted the visa." (DFB-14689, 5 Jan. 1952, enc. 2)

9. Reverend Warren MOKKINA, a delegate to the 2nd World Peace Congress in Warsaw, Poland, in Hovember 1950, testified that Irisa C. OFFO attended that Congress, presumably a delegate from some other groups, and that he and Mrs. Of10 had the same committee participation, which he described as "the cowdssion to define aggression." This same witness testified that upon their retura fram Warsaw, Poland, both he and Mrs. OTTO spoke at a meeting sponsored by the Minute Women for Peace.

As of April 1955, Irma C. OTTO resided at 140 Huron Ave., Cambridge, Mass. c/o Flo LUSCOMB who has been identified by informant as a "Concealed Consumist". Subject appeared before the W. H. Commission Investigating

MCKENNA, Rev. Warren

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

-3-

Communism and Subversive Activities in H.H. and testified on 1/6/54 and 2/1/54 that she was not and had not been a member of the Communist Party. She refused to give further information on the ground of privilege against self-incrimination. Informant identified subject as a former member of the Mass. Minute Woman for Peace. Another informant reported subject spoke as the New England Representative of the American Committee for Protection of Foreign Born at the National Legislative Conference of this organization that was held in Washington, D. C. on 27-28 March 1955. Another informant identified subject as being in attendence at a meeting of the Chicago Women for Peace that was held on 12/6/54. (DPB-55296, 29 July 1955)

10. Jan 16 da 57 memo to thef, conted division, 2.0.0. from Boston office, on the Kansas between on interviews with Women & freedom.

> [Figure: A photograph of a man wearing glasses and a suit.]

MCKENNA,
WARREN HENRY
(OCT 1950)

(over)

McKENNA, Rev. Warren


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

SECRET

18. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American Youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about McKenna:

"Reverend Warren MCKENNA, a 39-year-old Anglican minister, has spent the last year or so in London. He has a socialist viewpoint, but is neither a clear nor a fast thinker. O'Connell commented that he sometimes had too much to drink and may have said some things he otherwise might not have." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

MCKENNA, Rev. Warren

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET

American Student in China

MESCOLI, Sandra Florence

C.IT-USA
Residence - Los Angeles

File Check Results

Photo ATTACHED

1.  No Record in RI.

2.  Mescoli, as of December, 1957, was traveling in Europe after attending the youth fration in Moscow and the hys to China. She attended other youth League meeting in 1956 and 1957. She attended the may Day meeting that was held in Los Angeles, California, on 1 May 1957. (658-96419, 3 January 1958, in RI 201-146407)

3.  Dan O'connell, a member of the groupe, had the following to say about the subject; "... not the well, ispraedd or communiam but did apprend the communist egsten." "DFB-97144, 23/m 58.

> [Figure: Photo of Sandra Mescoli]
> Sandra Mescoli

MESCOLLI, Sandra


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET

American Student in China

MOYER, Larry (Eli Larry)

File Check Results

CIT-U.S.A. Photo Attached
Residence - New York
Passport No. 922674. issued 4/13/56

1.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

2.  Larry Moyer, a reported Communist Party member, attended a meeting on 6 January 1950, at the Independent Progressive Party (IPP) Headquarters at San Diego. The meeting was held by the members of the IPP Housing Committee for the purpose of making plans for their participation in the public Rent De-Control Meeting that was to be sponsored by the City of San Diego on 25 January 1950. (DFB-23641, 9 January 1953)

3.  The regular meeting of the Communist Party Morgan Hull Club was held at the home of Eli Larry Moyer on the evening of 14 March 1948. (This meeting was probably held in San Diego, California.) Eli Larry Moyer, a Communist Party member was among the members of the Independent Progressive Party that maintained a picket line at the entrance to the Chamber of Commerce Auditorium, in September 1948, when the California Un-American Activities Committee Hearings were being held. (DFB-19758, 22 July 52)

(over)

SECRET

MOYER, Larry (Eli Larry)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

4. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Larry Moyer:

"Larry MOYER, age 32, was reporting on the trip for United Press. O'Connell was Moyer's roommate in Moscow, and had learned of many of Moyer's past experiences before O'Connell had indicated where he stood politically. Moyer had been a pimp in Hawaii in 1941, working through the photograph shops where a serviceman could get his picture taken with a hula girl. He had also been afriend of Ada B. Jackson, whom O'Connell described as "a well-known pink in New York"; Moyer had known her through American Labor Party meetings there. O'Connell said that Moyer was crude, but by no means stupid." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

> [Figure: Photo of Larry Moyer, with his name and date written below.]
> ![photo of Larry Moyer]

MOYER, Larry (Eli Larry)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# SECRET

American Student in China

33

NOWICKI, Lorraine (Genevieve)

CIT-USA

D.0.B-7 Oct. 1932

Residence - Detroit

P.0.B-POLAND

File Check Results

Passport No. 117018 issued 6/22/56

1.  The 10 Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (10 Div.)

2.  Genevive Loraine Nowacki was residing at Hamtramck, Michigan and was employed by the "Glos Ludowy" (People's Voice) a Communist-line Polish-English language weekly newspaper. She attended meetings sponsored by the Civil Rights Congress in 1951, and the Convention of the Progressive Party at Chicago in 1952. She attended local and national functions of the "Glos Ludowy" in 1952. She served as Recording Secretary of the Youth Committee to Elect Peace Candidates in 1952, and was campaign manager for Ben Kocel who was an active member of the Communist Party in 1951, and the Progressive Party candidate for Michigan State Senator in the November 1952 elections. The subject represented the American Committee for Protection of the Foreign Born at the "Glos Ludowy" National Press Conference in Cleveland, Ohio in 1952. She was a member of the Civil Liberties Committee at the University of Michigan in 1952, and the International Workers Order in 1950. The subject was elected to the temporary Executive Committee of the newly formed Youth Club, Communist Party, U. S. A. District 7, on 4 December 1956, and was described that date as a member of the East Side Section of the Communist Party, District 7. Subject was the Chairman of the meeting of the Youth Club, Communist Party, District 7, on 11 December 1956. The subject has or is also connected with the Michigan Committee to Secure Justice in the Rosenberg Case, Michigan Artists Bureau, Civil Liberties Committee, Michigan Youth Committee for Peace, Freedom of Press Association of Mighigan, American Slav Congress, and the National Negro Labor Council. (DFB-79256, 14 March 1957)

3.  Genevive Loraine Novacki was born on 7 October 1932, in Poland and in 1956, she was residing in Detroit, Michigan with her father and

NOWICKI, Lorraine (Genevieve)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

SECRET

mother. Genevive's mother Stella who was born in Poland and naturalized at Detroit, Michigan travelled to Poland in 1956, and returned to the United States in that same year. Stella was a member of the International Workers Order, Lodge No. 3503, and was in good standing. Stella was also reported to have attended many receptions with the representatives of the Polish Embassy. (DFB-67777, 13 August 1956)

4. Miss Lorraine Nowacki was the Campaign Manager for Ben Kocel, the candidate for membership in the State Legislative representation of Michigan. Lorraine and Ben obtained over 1,800 signatures within less than 5 hours under the Progressive Party's petition demanding that the City Council in Detroit extend the rent control. (DFB-27456, 15 June 53)

5. *[Illegible text]*

![photo of Genevieve Nowacki]

GENEVIEVE NOWACKI
May 1956

NOWICKI, Lorraine (Genevieve


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET

34

American Student in China

O'CONNELL, Dan (Daniel Myles)
CIT-U.SA
Residence - Chicago, Illinois
Passport No. 594311 issued 6/25/57

File Check Results

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist and had also refused to surrender his passport at the Chinese frontier, but, succumbed to pressure in Peking. (State Department Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 September 1957 from Moscow.)

3.  Dan O'Connell was listed as the Publicity Director of the United States Youth Festival Committee, as of May 1957. (DFB-84120, 16 May 1957.)

(over)

O'CONNELL, Dan (Daniel Myles)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET

-2-

5. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. O'Connell said he saw Father Wagner in prison in Shanghai; he did not provide the Consulate General with more information about Father Wagner than appeared in the press. He was quite cooperative with the Consulate General (he turned over his passport) and was most anti-Communist in public and private statements. He described the greater part of the American group which attended the October 1 celebrations in Peiping as being politically and morally corrupt, and stated that only three members of the group, including himself, made any effort to defend the U.S. against Chinese Communist critics. The shortness of O'Connell's stay in Hong Kong prevented spending much time with him, but he stated that he would be happy to answer further questions after he returns to Chicago. (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

6. O'Connell is a KU JUMP informant. (See 10 January 58 item from KUI JUMP, filed in CIA-connected *Americans suspected in China*) (him)

7. WFB. 95135, a66.57, is a report on daniel myles O'Connell. O'Connell stated that Jake Rosen & Port Williamism was the leader of the American delegation, that the name Warren Mckenna was the leader of the group that went to China, that he (O'Connell) & Steve Tylarin were the only members of the China group that renounce the USO.

SECRET

O'CONNELL Dan (Daniel Myles)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# SECRET

American Student in China

ROSEN, Jake

CIT-USA.

Residence - New York

File Check Results

Photo AtHACHED

1.  The 10 Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival,.. were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (10 Div.)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was instrumental in applying pressure to make the Americans, that did not give up their passports at the Chinese frontier, give their passports to the Chinese in Peking. Tucker also feels that the subject is a most dangerous leftist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3.  On 15 November 1951, it was reported that Jack and Mildred Rosen, indicated to be members of the Chicago Branch of the Socialist Workers Party, resided at 1839 Touhy Avenue, Chicago. (DFB-16666, 24 March 1952)

4.  In March 1948, it was reported that Jack Rosen, who was residing at 314 Harbor Road, Hunters Point Housing Project, San Francisco, and a part-time employee at Sonotone, Inc., 450 Sutter Street, San Francisco, and a student at Stanford University, was a member of the Theodore Dreiser Club of the Commmist Party. At a meeting of the Professional Section function- aries on 19 March 1948, and in a discussion by those present on the responsibility of a Communist Party member in the event of war between the United States and Soviet Russia, Rosen, a member of the club, stated, "I would be drafted like any other individual and then do what I could." This same Jack Rosen was on a list of Communist Party members or reported sympathizers known to possess or who have been issued licenses for the operation of radiotelegraph, radiotelephone or amateur "ham" apparatus; who have received radio training; or who have been or now are employed in allied fields where their employment, talent, or knowledge could be utilized for clandestine radio communications. (DFB-5016, 14 August 1950)

(over)

SECRET

ROSEN, Jake


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET

-2-

5. Jacob Rosen vas a member of "The Campus" and the "Marxist Discussion Club," both organizations are student groups at the City College of New York, unsre Rosen was in attendance as a student. (DVB-90299, 19 Sept 57)

6. The "New York Times" issue of 30 July 1957, contained an article by "Max Frankel," regarding the World Youth Festival then in session at Moscow, USSR, which stated in part - "Jacob Rosen, 636 West 174th Street, Manhattan, a junior at City College want without sleep to keep things moving. He carried the United States flag at yesterday's opening, dipping it in salute to Fikkita 8. Khrushchev and other Soviet dignitaries, at the Lenin Stadium."

> [Figure] Photo of Jacob Rosen
> JACOB ROSEN
> 5/11/56

SECRET

ROSEN, Jake


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

-3-

7. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Jake Rosen:

"Jake ROSEN, one of the organizers of the group is "solidly leftist". His father had been a labor leader in New York." (Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

> [Figure: A newspaper clipping titled "CHINA VISION APPLIES"]
> Passport Seized, Youth Moves to Re-enter City College
> One of the forty-two young Americans who ignored a State Department ban to travel in Communist China will seek to re-enter City College next semester.
> The student, Jacob Rosen, returned to New York last week and his passport was seized by immigration officials. He said yesterday that he had taken a six-month leave of absence from City College to attend a youth festival in Moscow and to travel in Europe. Mr. Rosen, a 19-year-old junior, went to China following the festival and visited relatives in Israel before returning home.
> Dr. Buell G. Gallagher, president of the college, said he expected Mr. Rosen to have "no difficulty" in being readmitted.

8. Zunions SCKWALD.

9. DFB-95661, 26 Nov 57. contains info on Rosen's communist connections and visits to USSR and China. He helped prepare the report that sund Douney. He was the organizer of the group. Several members of the groups crucernsome Prasen.

• Fecteau looked well (Moyer oisches to this). da - Communist is acting for the Russians (those whoclis owe moyer, O'Connell, Tucker, Coppedge, & Mumford).

SECRET

ROSEN, Jake


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET

43

American Student in China

SCHMIDT, Orville
CIT-USA
Residence - Mamion, South D.

File Check Results

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

2.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-88603.

SECRET

SCHMIDT, Orville


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# SECRET

American Student in China

35

SCHWARTZ, Larry
CIT-U.S.A
File Check Results
Residence - Utica, Michigan
Passport No. 920030 issued 4/12/56 Photo Attached

The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

> [Figure: A photograph of Lawrence Russell Schwartz]
> LAWRENCE RUSSELL SCHWARTZ
> 3/27/56
> over

SCHWARTZ, Larry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

SECRET

2. Lawrence Schwartz, who recently arrived in Hong Kong, from his tour in Communist China, had the following to say about his observations of Communist China: "Communism is run by fanatics. What they are trying to do cannot be done. People cannot submit to long periods of regimentation. Regimentation is frightening. In the states I visited, it was entirely out of hand." (New York Times, 21 Nov. 57)

SECRET

SCHWARTZ, Larry


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# INCOMING TELEGRAM

## Department of State

UNCLASSIFIED

32

Action

P
FROM: Hong Kong

Control: 12435
Rec'd: November 21, 1957
8:30 p.m.

Info

RMR
TO: Secretary of State

INR
EUR
FE
IES
SCA
PPT
IRC
NO: 865, November 21

SENT DEPARTMENT 865, REPEATED INFORMATION KOBE 2, YOKOHAMA 3.

Lawrence Schwartz, member Youth Festival group, aboard PRESIDENT CLEVELAND due Honolulu December 3. Presence Hong Kong unknown until after departure.

CIA

DRUMRIGHT

UMT/1

UNCLASSIFIED

UNLESS "UNCLASSIFIED" REPRODUCTION FROM THIS COPY IS PROHIBITED.

SCHWARTZ, Lawrence


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET

American Student in China

36

SEEGER, Peggy (Margaret)
CIT-USA
File Check Results
Residence - Los Angeles, California Photo AHACHED
Passport No. 729373 issued 7/11/55

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow
    Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable
    character. (IO Div.)

2.  The AP correspondent in Moscow reported that the subject
    and Guy CARAWAN would return to the U.S.S.R. for an extensive
    folk-singing tour. (State Department Incoming Telegram No. 513
    dated 10 September 1957, from Moscow.)

3.  There is no pertinent file information concerning Margaret
    SEEBER however, the following information is furnished for your
    information.

Charles Louis SEEGER, Jr. and Ruth Crawford SEEGER,
parents of subject reside at 7 West Kirke Street, Chevy Chase 15,
Maryland.

A report dated May 1952 states that Charles SEEGER was
a member of the Communist Party in approximately 1936 and 1937.
Ruth Capwford SEEGER was reported to have been friendly or acqu-
ainted with serious individuals during the 1940's who were Communist
Party members, some of whom were also identified as being involved
in a Soviet espionage ring which operated in Washington, D. C. and
New York during the early 1940's.

Charles SEEGER admitted Communist Party membership
from 1936 to 1939 in a discussion group of the Communist Party.
He stated that the group payed no dues and had no membership cards.
He also admitted that he joined a similar Communist Party discussion
group consisting of three people in the latter part of 1941 and early
1942. This group, according to SEEGER met very irregularly and he
ceased association with the Communist Party about 1943. He denied
membership in the Communist Party at the time he was interviewed
in August 1953.

SECRET

SEEGER, Peggy (Margaret)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET

Margaret SEEGER's half brother Peter SEEGER is reported to have been a member of the Communist Party in 1945.

Peter SEEGER is reported to have been one of the organizers of People's Songs, Inc. in 1946. He served as editor, executive chairman, and national director prior to the dissolution of the company in 1949. People's Songs, Inc. was cited as a Communist front which was incorporated January 31, 1946, by the California Committee on Un-American Activities in its 1948 report.

Peter SEEGER is also reported to have been a member of the WEAVERS, a musical quartet who entertained at "Closed meetings" of Communist Party functionaries and have appeared before numerous pro-Communist and Communist-front groups. (ONHW-4402, 20 February 1956 from various FBI reports.)

> [Figure] A black and white portrait of Margaret Seeger.

MARGARET SEEGER
12/13/55

SECRET

SEEGER, Peggy (Margaret)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

SECRET

American Student in China

37

TUCKER, Shelby Jr. (James)
CIT-U.S.A
File Check Results
Residence - Pass Christian, Miss. *Photo Attached*
Passport No. 615485. issued 3/29/57

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was anti-Communist. (IO Div.)

2.  Shelby Tucker appeared at the American Embassy in Moscow, on 9 September 1957, and was interviewed in regards to his trip to China. (Interviewers name not given) The interviewer stated that he was convinced from his talk with Tucker, both before the festival and now, that he was a sincere and loyal if misguided American and that his refusal to give up his passport to the Chinese was not a trick. (State Dept. Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3.  The FBI in answer to a file-check request, from the State Department regarding some of the individuals that attended the Moscow Youth Festival, replied that their records failed to disclose any identifiable data of a subversive nature concerning James T. Tucker, Jr. (DFB-88829, 21 August 57)

![photo of James Shelby Tucker Jr.]

TUCKER, Shelby, Jr. (James)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

AIU POUCH
PRIORITY

CONFIDENTIAL
(Security Classification)

DO NOT TYPE IN THIS SPACE

FOREIGN SERVICE DESPATCH

FROM: American Embassy LONDON

TO: THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE, WASHINGTON.

REF: Embtel 1887

For Dept.
Use Only
ACTION
REC'D
AT DEPT.
OTHER

SUBJECT: Ebassy De-briefing of Shelby Tucker, American Student Who Visited Communist China

Mr. Shelby Tucker, an Amorican student at Oxford University,
visited Comunist China in company with soveral other students
at the conclusion of the Moscow Youth Fostival. After his arrival
in Poking he was requested by the Chinono Cartunist authorities to
surronder his passport. ir. Tucker refused to do this and as a
result was deported from China into the Soviet Union. lle roturned
to London on September 12 and during his discussions with the
Babassy voluntoored to proparo a statement of his impressions of
Communist China based on his notos. This statement is transmitted
as onclosure one.

Shortly after Mr. Tucker arrived in London ho was approached
by Lifo magazino for his story, which it is understood he sold to
the editors for a sum of $500.00. A copy of this story, which
was written by a Life staff writer based on Mr. Tuckor's romarks
is transmitted as enclosure two. The Embassy understands that
Life magazine is not now planning to publish this story.

Thore is transmitted as onclosure three a copy of Mr. Tucker's
affidavit regarding the use of his passport in Communist China.
This affidavit has already boon transmitted to the Department under
separate cover in connection with Mr. Tucker's passport difficulties
but is included here for the Department's convenionco.

It was the impression of the de-briefing officers that Mr.
Tucker was sincere in his desire to furnish-information which
might be of use to the United States Government. Unfortunately,
however, Hr. Tucker seems to have vory little background in
Chinese affairs and his observations, both written and oral, appear
to contain little significant political or economic information.

/Mr. Tucker

POL/F-RHostomick

CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION COPY

Retain in divisional files or destroy in accordance with security regulations.

TUCKER, Shelby


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

CONFIDENTIAL
(Classification)

Page 2 of
Encl. No. 000
Desp. No.
From Anonbassy London

Mr. Tucker took a number of photographs during his stay in China. One print of each will be forwarded to the Department under separate cover when they have been received by the Embassy.

For the Ambassador:

Rockwood H.Ooster
Second Secretary of Embassy

Approved:

Edwin W. Martin
First Secretary of Embassy

Enclosures:

1. Statement of impressions of Communist China
2. Life magazine story
3. Mr. Tucker's affidavit

cc: Taipei, Hong Kong

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SECRET

American Student in China

38

TYLER, Patty (Patricia)

CIT-US4

Residence- New York

Passport No. 1 issued 6/12/56

File Check Results

Photo ATTACHED

1. No Record RI.

2. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State. Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3. Sue Steve Tyler.

4. Mr Connell told O.O. That Mrs. Tyler interviewed Richmond said he had greatly had all of his teeth removed.
   I didnt look to well, that he win to outspoken against the (By phone 14

PATRICIA GROLL TYLER
6/12/56

TYLER, Patty (Patricia)

![photo of Patricia Groll Tyler]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET

American Student in China

39

TYLER, Steve
CII-U.S.A
Residence - New York
Passport No. 17 issued 10/22/56
File Check Results
Photo Anacked

1. Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject was non-Communist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow.)

![photo of STEPHEN TYLER]

STEPHEN TYLER
10/22/56

TYLER, Steve


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRET

-2-

2. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about the Tylers:

"Steve and Patty TYLER (ref. Consulate General telegram to Department 560, repeated Moscow 8, Prague 1, of September 27, 1957) have been traveling in Europe for about a year and a half. Steve is 23. Neither are college graduates. O'Connell felt that Patty was the smarter of the two, but that both were quite sound in their thinking, and he was convinced of their anti-Communist sentiments. O'Connell said that both of Steve's parents had been in some sort of trouble for leftist or Communist activity in the U.S., and that Steve feared that this would unwarrantably be held against him in spite of his violent reaction against his upbringing. O'Connell said that he had never known a case where the views of father and son were father apart." (Foreign Service Dispatch Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

3. Stephen Tyler's father, Leonard, of 263 Parkside Ave, was a member of the Parkside Club, Communist Party, and in the Parkside Club, he was Press Director and member of the Executive Committee. Stephen's mother, Evelyn, was in April 1949 a member of the stih committee of the American Solar Party. (PRO-94348, 17Nov57)

SECRET

TYLER, Steve


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# SECRET

American Student in China

40

WILLIAMSON, Bob (Robert Dawson) D.O.B-14 MAY 1938

CIT-OSA P.O.B-CLEVELAND File Check Results

Residence - New York Photo Attached

Passport No. 502806 issued 5/9/57

1.  The 10 Division's informants that attended the Moscow Festival were of the opinion that the subject was a Left Winger. (10 Div.)

2.  On 11 Oct. 1955, Confidential Informant T-1, who has furnished reliable information in the past, reported he had received information that Robert WILLIAMSON, born 14 May 1938, a student from Cleveland, Ohio had arrived in Paris, France on 2 Sept. 1955 from Prague, Czechoslovakia. Informant said his information indicated this individual had been in Poland. He stated he was not sure, but in all probability this person was a member of a youth club that had met in Warsaw, Poland. (DFB-59303, 11 Jan. 1956, RI 200-4-25201-8)

3.  WILLIAMSON, Bob - Represented the Communist League of Great Britain at the UREJ Congress at Lyon in April 1948. (French press, RI 20-4-10-10078)

> [Figure: A black and white portrait of Robert Dawson Williamson]

ROBERT DAWSON WILLIAMSON

5/1/57

SECRET

WILLIAMSON, Bob (Robert Dawson)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

4. Daniel M. O'Connell, a member of the American youth group which toured Communist China after attending the Moscow Youth Festival, arrived in Hong Kong on 6 October 1957. O'Connell provided the Consulate General, Hong Kong, with information on some of the other members of the group. He had the following to say about Williamson:

"Earl (I believe O'Connell called him Bob) WILLIAMSON's father was deported from the U.S. for Communist activities and is now in London. (See Consulate General despatch No. 199 of September 17, 1957),"
(Foreign Service Dispatch, Hong Kong, number 289, 14 October 1957.)

5. *Illegible Text*

6. *The* O'Connell, a member of *the group*, had the following to say about the subject: "... very pro-Communist; definitely familiar with communism; argued very convincingly for the Communist system and appeared sincere in his beliefs." *Illegible Initials*

971 44 23, January 1958.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

American Student in China

41

WILLIAMSON, Earl
CIT-USA.
Residence Pleasant Hill, Calif./London
Passport No. 577624 issued 6/10/57

File Check Results

Photo Attached

1.  The IO Division's informants, that attended the Moscow Festival, were of the opinion that the subject was of questionable character. (IO Div.)

2.  Shelby Tucker, the American that went to China and refused to give the Chinese his passport, stated that the subject is a most dangerous leftist. (State Dept. Incoming Telegram No. 513 dated 10 Sept 57, from Moscow)

3.  The following document pertains to the subject, however, efforts to locate the document have been unsuccessful: DFB-86248.

> [Figure] part of handwritten text says "Interviewed Janswork."
> Handwritten text says "Han & 'Conell, a member of the group, had the following to say."
> Handwritten text says "very naive; definitely for the ..."
> Handwritten text says "DFB-97144: 23 pm 1958."
> ![photo of EARL R. WILLIAMSON]
> Handwritten Text says "EARL R. WILLIAMSON, 4/10/57"
> ![photo of WILLIAMSON, Earl]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

FBI doc

25 Nov. 57 (Boston)

Re: Richard James Medalie

Butile-100-476 846

Boston Field Office-100-32145

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENT

BLOCK, MORRIS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)