14-00009
104-10181-10005 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECHE

(Ruiz Perez, Crester Guillemino)

RUIZ, Guillermo

Latest information (7 July 1971) indicates he is with the MINREX office of Scientific-Technologic Affairs in Havana.

(INMEDIT from CDO کے نے)

201-735296.

201-735096


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Closed

File in next volume.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Intelligence Information Report

![DIRECTORATE OF PLANS logo]

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage laws, Title 18, U.S.C., Sections 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT: NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

S-E-C-R-E-T

PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

COUNTRY Cuba/Spain

REPORT NO. CS DB-312/02338-69

DOI 19 September 1969

DATE DISTR. 8 October 1969

SUBJECT Rejection of Air Spain Offer to Sell Three Britannia Aircraft to Cuba

ACQ Spain, Madrid (19 September 1969)

FIELD NO.

SOURCE Member of the Cuban Embassy in Madrid who is a reliable reporter and is known to have access to this type of information.

1. On 19 September 1969, Guillermo Ruiz Perez, the Cuban Minister to Spain, sent a letter to Air Spain officially rejecting their offer to sell three Britannia aircraft to Cubana Airlines. (Headquarters Comment: In CS-311/07888-69, dated 8 September 1969, an Iberian Airlines employee whose reporting is usually accurate reported that Air Spain had offered, on 1 August 1969, to sell Cubana Airlines three Britannias for US $2,643,000.)

2. Field Dissem: None.

S-E-C-R-E-T

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

|              |           |          |         |                                              |
| ------------ | --------- | -------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| STATE DCS    | DIA. ARMY | NAVY AIR | NSA CRS | (For Field Distribution see final paragraph) |
| BIC TREASURY |           |          |         |                                              |


|             |                                               |         |                  |                                     |
| ----------- | --------------------------------------------- | ------- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| E/C/ARR     | 2WH/SAO                                       | 1E/IB/R | 3                | MADRID 9618                         |
| E/C/OPS     | 12                                            | E/MADR  | 1                | (IN 49866)                          |
| E/C/EW      | 1CI/OPS/WH                                    | 2E/R    | 1                | QUOTA/QUDOZE                        |
| E/C/PP      | 1                                             |         |                  | CSDB-312/02338-69                   |
| F/C/MIAMI H |                                               |         |                  |                                     |
| TOTALS      | IE 2, CI-4, FI 3, CA 1, DO 1, EUR 4 (1), WH-1 |         | LIAISON Joint/65 | COORDINATING RELEASING E/IB/R- P.R. |
| E/C 7 (1)   |                                               |         |                  |                                     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

14-00000

# A Personal in

provided the following:

related to Spain,

by Ricardo

With Gailler10 NB12 (201-020007);

related to the post.

: וְזֶה הַמַּאֲסְרְן פְּשִירִים

170-1997: tiris

Unba, a very good opinion.

alchow cooperated with the

!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

![photo of a document with smudged text]

Indeed "State" on just the occasion it justified for, say, Switzerland, and I suspect to that extent only on vacation. Society may well start with but develop an irreducible need to ask power, supposing it has to ask power, supposes, Ministry of Labour: for labour, its labour, right to legal manpower and attitudes about that manpower according to whether this is just its attitude.

## (3) - 9 -/31/68. I'm doing it

![photo of a document with smudged text]

For wholesaling are in London, makes sense since they buy from, maybe. Since only in this country can do a centre M, say. Not here so must go to them. No with a person who buys and buys and buys. No Hall, Stamford, will pay. He won't have you at all on his lists since not are. Always to them for. Now the only place to do on that. Now that's just an that is. Now now the the idea that is so. Seems more reasonable all this now. Not possible to go into today. Now. Providing backward and forward. See a relations of race but never and that's of attitudes to the place.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, Europe Division
Chief of Station, WI1/Miami
Chief of Station, Madrid

TYPIC/QUDOZF/Unidentified Cuban in Zaragoza

1. Osvaldo GARCIA who arrived in Spain nearly two months ago to supervise the production of two-burner stoves being manufactured by the Spanish firm Tallers Cataluna, S. A. (TACA) (TACA is also manufacturing the 10,000 cane wagons for the Cubans), passed through Madrid on 23 September and told AMAUTO-1 that there was an unidentified Cuban in Zaragoza who is preparing a study on Spanish firms trading with Cuba.

AMAUTO-1 immediately suspected that this Cuban was an agent of RVROCK and suggested that GARCIA get to know this person and try to elicit biographic information as well as attempt to get a photograph of him for possible identification.

2. Station has no idea who this Cuban might be.

Howard R. SACODER

Distribution:

- 2 - C/WIID
- 2 - C/EUR
- 2 - COS/WI1, Miami

OSMA-25535

SECRET

2 October 1969


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# CABLE SECRETARIAT. DISSEMINATION
PERSONU'UNIT NOTIMED

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
ROTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEAL VED NO

CLARIFY TO CO FILE NO.
DISSEM BY 7
ACTION UNIT WH8 FILE, VR
ACTION-NO. 782 CI/OA F12
XREP TO CS FILE NO.
RETURN TO BRANCH R//AN ER6 a c/afps cifica

26 SEP 69 IN 53062
SECRET 261334Z SEP 69 CITE MADRID 9655
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI
TYPIC AM.UTO

REF: DIRECTOR 40647

1. AMAUTO-1 RETURNED TO MADRID FROM HOME LEAVE ON
   18 SEPTEMBER. WIFE AND FAMILY ARRIVED MADRID 17 SEPTEMBER.

QUTIMID REPORTED AMAUTOS PLAN REMAIN MADRID FOR AT LEAST
ANOTHER YEAR AND POSSIBLY TWO. WIFE PREGNANT WITH SIXTH CHILD.

2. STATION WILL SUBMIT OUR VIEWS ON AMAUTO-1 AFTER REVIEW
   YOUR DISPATCH.

3. FILE 201-735296.

SECRET

![photo of handwritten notes]

![CS COPY SECRET logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

DEPARTMENT OF STATE DOCUMENT
DATE: 26 SEPTEMBER 1969
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SUBJECT: NONE GIVEN
FILE NUMBER: TELEGRAM # 67.091.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

MGS: CARL LUNSFORD:cs
INT: WE/COG/OPS
AT: 1519
DATE: 23 SEPTEMBER 1969

CASE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF: WH8
FILE: VR. RILAN EUR6 DAP AOOP CSDO 52. Ci cilops

SECRET

24-19.05z Sep 69

CITE DIRECTOR: 40547

MADRID INFO: WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AM AUTO

REFS: A. OSA-24926

B. MADRID 9234 (IN 19794)

C. MADRID 9263 (IN 22677)

1. EQS STILL INTERESTED AMAUTO-1 AS POTENTIAL RECRUITMENT TARGET, INTERESTED PARTICULARLY HIS PRESENT STATUS. ACCORDING QUTINID REPORT MARCH 69 (REF A) SUBJECT INTENDED DEPART MADRID PCS AUG 69. REF B REPORTED SUBJECT HAD DEPARTED FOR HAVANA 4 AUG BUT NO EQS INFO HIS DEPARTURE PCS. LATEST INFO (REF C) REPORTED SUBJECT ON HOME LEAVE, THEREFORE ASSUME HE WILL RETURN MADRID SOON.

2.  Preparing DISPATCH CONCERNING OUR RENEWED INTEREST AMAUTO-1, ASSUMING HE INTENDS RETURN MADRID TO CONTINUE ASSIGNMENT. MEANWHILE, WOULD APPRECIATE STATION VIEWS NEW APPROACH TO SUBJECT; ALSO

CS COPY

SECRET

(CONTINUED)

201-735296
24 Sep 69


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

RIG:
SITI:
TI:
ATE: OCT 1 3 17 PM '69
AGLE SECRETARIAT DIPATED
RID/EDI
ONP:

SECRET

PAGE TWO

POTENTIAL STATION ASSETS WHICH WE COULD USE AS AVENUE FOR APPROACH AMAUTO-1.

3.  WISH EXPRESS OUR APPRECIATION TO STATION AND QUSEQUINS FOR PAST INITIATIVE AND GOOD REPORTING RE AMAUTO CASE.

4. FILE: 201-735296.

END OF MESSAGE

JC/WH/CCG R. Robert
E/IB 7. A. Aclner

JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

NEED TO DO A DISTATO TO CAPTURE TALKING OUR HIGH SECTED INTEREST IN AHAUTC-1 AS A POTRITIAL RECRUITMENT TARGET.

3 ITEMS OF INTEREST - VULNERABILITIES

1. HIS DESIRE FOR EXPENSIVE ITEMS AND GOOD LIVING (MONEY)

2. MEDICAL PROBLEM - POSSIBLE TUMOR. PRAY ABOUT INJURY THAT COULD CAUSE HIM TO DIE.

3. HIS DESIRE TO WORK IN HONOLULU -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED ROTTED

BY:

DISSEM BY 7 PER
ACTION UNIT WH8 FILE, VR
ACTION NO.
782 01/0A F12

ASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES 24

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CO FILE NO.
X-REP TO CO FILE NO.
FILE ROD RETURN TO BRANCH
R//ON ENR 6 CI calpes cifica

SECRET 261334Z SEP 69 CITE MADRID 9655

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: DIRECTOR 40647

1. AMAUTO-1 RETURNED TO MADRID FROM HOME LEAVE ON 18 SEPTEMBER. WIFE AND FAMILY ARRIVED MADRID 17 SEPTEMBER. QUTIMID REPORTED AMAUTOS PLAN REMAIN MADRID FOR AT LEAST ANOTHER YEAR AND POSSIBLY TWO. WIFE PREGNANT WITH SIXTH CHILD.

2. STATION WILL SUBMIT OUR VIEWS ON AMAUTO-1 AFTER REVIEW YOUR DISPATCH.

3. FILE 201-735296.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
LASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filed in)
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP 1
ROUTING AND/OR INITIAL, SEEN BY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
1
6
2
7
3
8
4
9
5
10
DISSEM. BY
48
ACTION
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
WH-8
R REF TO FILE NO.
Herlitte
DESTROY
RID COPY
INFO
FILE VR. BILAN EUR6, FIZ, IW
BRANCH
Wheeler

SECRET 221635Z SEP 69 CITE MADRID 9618

DIRECTOR

TYPIC INTEL QUDOZE

23 SEP 69 IN 49866

REF: OSM 9665

1. ON 19 SEPTEMBER AMAUTO-I DICTATED LETTER TO AIR SPAIN
   INTERVENTORS OFFICIALLY REJECTING AIR SPAIN OFFER TO SEEL THREE
   BRITANNIA AIRCRAFT TO CUBANA.

2. DEFER FILE.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE. TOTAL COPIES ROUTING ANDIOR INITIALS-BOEN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIF

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO CO FILE NO.

KREP TO CS FILE NO.

FILE RO RETURN TO BRANCH

DISSEM BY 7
ACTION UNIT WH. 8 PER RAFON ENR 6 Ci clpass Fiz

ACTION NO. 342

SECRET 2314462 SEP 69 CITE MADRID 9624
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAM: 23 SEP 69 IN 50288

1. LUIS O. RODRIGUEZ RODRIGUEZ PP-D-62-56 AND GUILLERMO
   RUIZ PEREZ PP-D-67-890 ARRIVED MADRID FROM HABANA 18 SEPT
   ON CUBANA FLT 470.

2. FILE: 65-120-20

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ PEREZ, ORESTES GUILLERMO
201-735296 201-808896
SEX M 008 ? OSMA-25453
15 SEP 69
CIT ? P2
OCC ?
MINCEX VICE MINISTER UNTIL LATE 67. CUBAN
EMB IN MADRID CHARGE D'AFFAIRES. REFUSED
TO ACCEPT DSE DOMINANCE OF CUBAN EMB IN
MADRID.

R 6909181350

FILE IN 201-235296

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

ADVANCE COPY ☐ISSUED ☐ROTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

TOTAL COPIES

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

DISSEM BY

ACTION UNIT WH5

FILE, VR RIYAN EUR6 FL2

SECRET 131239Z AUG 69 CITE MADRID 9263 (ROPARD ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

13 Aug 69

22147

TYPIC

1. REQUEST TRACES INCLUDING AMOT ON JUAN ANTONIO (CURBELO) LEMUS BORN VULTUS, CUBA 8 MAR 30. SUBJ.

CURRENTLY ACTING CHARGE CUBAN EMBASSY WHILE GUILLERMO RUIZ ON HOME LEAVE.

2. FILE 201-733544.

SECRET

Ray (IN 1974) Son 69 Sonated

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 3

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY

SECRET

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

FILE, VR EURE, PI/AN F12, 6/162, CI/OPS

SECRET 182055Z AUG 69 CITE WH/MIAMI 4945 19 Aug 63

DIRECTOR, MADRID

TYPIC

REF: MADRID 9263(22677).

1. JUAN ANTONIO CURBELO LEMUS (201-733544) ARRIVED SANTIAGO, CHILE, AS SECOND SECRETARY CUBAN EMBASSY IN AUGUST 63 (HCSA-10169, 20 AUGUST 63, AND SAGO 5834, 24 AUGUST 63). RETURNED TO CUBA FROM CHILE IN AUGUST 64 (MACHINE TRAVEL LISTING). ATTENDED WORLD CONFERENCE ON AGRARIAN REFORM - HELD IN ROME IN JUNE/JULY 66; DESCRIBED AS OFFICIAL OF CUBAN ACADEMY OF SCIENCE (OIRA-45082, 23 JUNE 66; ROME 0386, 8 JULY 66, AND OIRA-45261, 27 JULY 66). SEE MACHINE TRAVEL LISTING FOR ADDITIONAL TRAVEL.

2. NO ADDITIONAL AMOT TRACES. DIRECTOR: ABOVE DOCUMENTS WHICH NOT AVAILABLE STATION FILES MAY CONTAIN ADDITIONAL INFO ON SUBJECT.

3. FILE: 201-733544.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Santiago
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, Europe Division

Chief of Station, Madrid

KIAMBEOSIA Transmittal of Photographs of Cuban Officials in Madrid

Reference: MADRID 9147

1. As explained in Reference we are forwarding several photographs of Cuban officials currently assigned to Madrid. We would appreciate KIAMBEOSIA-3 reviewing the photographs to possibly identify the official she met in Madrid.

Photograph #1 - Guillermo RUIZ Peres, Cuban Minister

Photograph #2 - Aristides DIAZ Envirosa, First Secretary and current Intelligence officer.

Photograph #3 - Orestes BARRETA Peres, First Secretary

Photograph #4 - Jose DIAZ Puga, Attache and suspected intelligence officer.

2. Photograph number 5 is that of Hector GALLO Portiles former Cuban intelligence officer in Madrid. Although a long shot we wonder if this GALLO is the same person who met the agent in Savan.

Rosard R. ZACODZA

Distribution:
2 - COS, Santiago c/att.
2 - C/FI2D wo/att
2 - C/ECD wo/att

4 August 1969


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONNEL UNIT NOTIFIED

C. SIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET
(When Filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

BY:

30

DISSEM BY
ACTION

PER

FILE BIO RET TO

BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

WH8 RID COPY FILE VR. RUHANI EURG F2 CI cil/ps c/i/cz

805 DDP MODP CSDO

SECRET 101630Z JUL 69 CITE MADRID 8970 (ROPARD ACTION 69 N 01275

DIRECTOR INFO ROME

TYPIC AMBGEWN AMCAGEHTAOIMID

1. AMCAGE-1 ADVISED AMOUTO-1 6 JULY HE
   PLANNED GO HAVANA VIA MADRID 7 JULY. DURING BRIEF
   TO
   SAPOVER AT MADRID AIRPORT INTZODED TO MEET
   PRESIDENT OF ALFA ROMSO COMPANY WHOM WILL
   ACCOMPANY TO HAVANA. WISHED TO INTRODUCE
   AMAUTO-1 TO THIS MAN.

2. FILE 201-759701.

SECRET

# SECRET

File:
AMAUTO-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

## SPAIN

ORIG: EMMY PRYOR:ak
UNIT: WH/COG OPS
EXT: 7144 R. 1819
DATE: 10 JULY 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
BY 2.
CONF: /WH 8

SECRET

TO: MADRID INFO: WH/MIAMI

RYBAT TYPIC AMROSE AMBEDEW

REFS: A. OSMA 25059, 21 APRIL 1969
B. DIRECTOR 16159
C. MADRID 8882 (IN 92987)

1. PHOTOS FORWARDED WITH REF A SHOWN TO AMBEDEW-1 WHO IDENTIFIED FOLLOWING, NUMBERED PER REF: NO. 1, RECOGNIZED AS "GALLO," FORMER CHIEF OF CENTER, SPAIN. NO. 4. IDENTIFIED AS "ENCARGADO DE NEGOCIOS" IN SPAIN, GUILLERMO (RUIZ). A-1 ADDED THAT RUIZ WAS VERY "DICTATORIAL" IN HIS DEALINGS WITH DGI OFFICERS, AND THAT HE HAD SERIOUS PERSONALITY CONFLICT WITH GALLO. NO. 6, RECOGNIZED AS THE MAN A-1 THINKS REPLACED GALLO AS COC IN SPAIN, WHOSE PSEUDO IS "DOMINGO."

2. ALTHOUGH A-1 THOUGHT PHOTO NO. 2 LOOKED VERY FAMILIAR, HE UNABLE IDENTIFY. DID NOT RECOGNIZE ANY OF REMAINDER PHOTOS.

3. BASED ON FACT PHOTOS SUBMITTED WITH REF A REPRESENT SMALL PERCENTAGE NUMBER CUBAN DIPLOMATS ASSIGNED SPAIN, PLUS FACT DGI KNOWN TO UTILIZE COMMERCIAL OFFICE PERSONNEL, BELIEVE IT WORTHWHILE

4. REQUEST FROM LIAISON PHOTOS OF ALL CUBAN DIPLOMATS ASSIGNED SPAIN FOR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY _________ PER _________ # _________

CONF: _________ FILE. VR,

(classification)
SECRET

TO PAGE TWO CITE DIRECTOR 719794

POSSIBLE ADDITIONAL IDENTIFICATIONS BY A-1, AS REQUESTED REF B.

4. NO INDEX. PILE 19-6-139/4.

END OF MESSAGE

JOHN SHERWOOD fc/WH/COG
C/E/FI/CI E/IB

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPROCUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

6. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION.

AMAUTO /1/
201-135296
SIX M 008 ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
201-814891
MADR-08308
10 MAY 69
SURJ HAS STARTED AFFAIR W/AMAGONIZC/1
/201-293225/ LAST TWO NIGHT. NIGHT 8TH
SUPPOSEDLY WORKING LATE BUT TOGETHER

WAS 201-353964

R 6908130632

FILE IN 201-735296

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PROSONICNIT NOTIPICU

ASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

(When Filled in)

TOTAL COPIS (19)

TING AVD/OR INITIALS SEENO

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDER
VES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NU

AREP TO LENO

FILE ORET. TO
BRANCH
DESTROYS:G

INFO
FILE: R CHRISD. Clairs, dialf2

PER
RID COPY
DISSEM
ACTION
S/WHO 248

701

SECRET 101203Z MAY 69 CITE MADRID 8368

IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR INFO PRIORITY WH/MIAMI

10 MAY 69 IN 554 19

RYBAT TYPIC AMMEDIA QUTINID AMAGONIZE

REF: DIRECTOR 00167

1. ALL QUTIMID. INFO CHECKED THRU EARLY MORNING HOURS 19 MAY.
   LATE EVE CALL TO HOTEL BY AMAGONIZE-1 REPORTED AMMEDIA I NOT
   YET ARRIVED MADRID. AMAGONIZE-I INDICATED IN CONVERSATION WITH
   AMAUTO-1 WIFE THAT HAD CALLED AMMEDIA-1 EMB EITHER 6TH OR 7TH
   AND THEY REPORTED HE HAD LEFT FOR MADRID. CONVERSATIONS BETWEEN
   AMAGONIZE-1 AND AMAUTO-1 WIFE SHOW BEWILDERMENT AND CONCERN NON
   ARRIVAL AMMEDIA-1. CONVERSATION LATE EVE 8 MAY AMAUTO-1 WIFE ASKED
   "JOKINGLY IF HE MIGHT NOT HAVE DEFECTED.

2. AMAUTO-1 HAS STARTED AFFAIR WITH AMAGONIZE-1 LAST TWO
   NIGHTS. NIGHT 8TH SUPPOSEDLY WORKING LATE BUT TOGETHER. AT 0103
   HRS 10TH AMAUTO-1 WENT TO APT AMAGONIZE-1 AFTER OFFICIAL FUNTION.
   BEING UNUSUALLY NICE TO EACH OTHER ON PHONE LAST COUPLE DAYS.

3. AMAGONIZE-1 NOW WORRIED AMMEDIA-1 MIGHT BE SECRETLY MADRID
   WATCHING HER MOVEMENTS. CLAIMS ON PREVIOUS OCCASION IN MADRID
   OBSERVED HER MOVEMENTS FOR FOUR DAYS BEFORE CONTACTING HER.

A. UNABLE MAKE OTHER CONFIRMATION ARRIVAL AMMEDIA-1

# SECRET

File:
AMAUTO-I


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND INITIALS SEEN BY

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
A-REF TO FILE NO
DISSEM BY ACTION
INFO
RIO COPY
FILE ID REF. TO
BRANCH
FILE VR

PAGE 2 MADRID 8368 SECRET

WITHOUT DIRECT QUESTION TO QUSEQUINS WHICH BELIEVE NOT ADVISEABLE. WILL KEEP YOU INFORMED NEW DEVELOPMENTS.

5. FILE: 201-353964

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

PRIORITY MAPRED INFO: WILAIANT
0070 50289 CITE DIRECTOR 00167

RYBAS TYPIC AMBROWN AMMUDIA

REF: WARID 8337 (IN 53617)

1. WILL SEND ANBEATNIK/1 (IDEN), ON FIRST AVAILABLE FLIGHT UPON
   CONFIRMATION ANMEDIA/1 VISIT MADRID.

2. FILE 201-353964.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of John Sherwood] JOHE SHERWOOD C/WH/COG
C/E/F/C/ RELIGING OFFICER

![signature] E/IE ME. Sorrels

SECRET

![signature] WILLIAN V. BROE
C/WID

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUETEO.
AUTHENTICATIO CEFICA
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET

PRIORITY MARAD INFO: WH/MIAMI

RYBAT TYPIC AMBROWN AMEDIA

RE: DIRECTOR C0167

1. IDEN IS ER. IGNACIO FITERRE RIVERA, CUBAN AMBASSADOR TO THE HAGUE 1959-61; PROFESSOR MATHEMATICS SMALL COLLEGE JACKSONVILLE, FLA. 1961-PRESENT; FRIEND AND BENEFACTOR CARLOS ALFARAS VARELA AND BERTHA FERNANDEZ SINCE MID-FORTIES WHEN BOTH WORKED FOR HIM IN MINISTER EDUCATION OF GRAU SAN MARTIN REGINE; ALFARAS RECENTLY ASSURED FITERRE THAT THEIR FRIENDSHIP REMAINS AS WARM AS EVER. DESCRIPTION: APPARENT AGE 55; FIVE FEET TEN INCHES, 200 LBS; GREY HAIR, STRAIGHT, FULL; BROWN EYES; NATURALIZED US CITIZEN. WAS ACTIVE IN TRIPLE A, JAILED AND EXILED UNDER BATISTA.

2. 201-353964.

END OF MESSAGE

CABLE SEC: Pls ref attached cable.

JOHN SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

C/WH/COG

E/IB D. Sorrels

RELEASING OFFICER

WILLIAM V. BROF
C/WRD

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

COFINO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

ADVANCE COPY

WH

AT 2025

C/WH8

559

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO

A-REP TO FILE NO

FILE RIO CPT το

FILE VR. C/EURS, C/SBS, CRISD, ADDP, DDP, C/CI

PRECEDENCE

SECRET 301835Z APR 69 CITE MADRID 2275 (EOPARD ACTING)
30 APR 69 IN 48023

PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

RYBAT TYPIC REDCOAT AMAGONIZE

1. SINCE DA APRIL QUTIMID HAS REPORTED MORE THAN SEVEN
   HOURS OF REVEALING CONVERSATIONS BETHREN AMAGONIZE-! AND
   WIFE AMAUTO-I ON SUDDEN RECALL OF FORMER. CONVERSATIONS
   TOTALLY INDISCREET AND EXPOSE EXTRAORDINARY AMOUNT INFO ON
   SUPPOSED REASONS FOR RECALL AND ITS APPARENT CONNECTION WITH
   AMBEDEWI AFFAIR. CANNOT EMPHASIZE ENOUGH THE BITTERNESS
   VOICED BY AMAGONIZE-1 OVER URGENT RECALL. FONOFF INSISTED
   SHE TAKE FIRST FLIGHT PBRUMEN WHICH SCHEDULED 5 MAY, ALTHOUGH
   AMAUTO-I HAD CABLED FONOFF FOR EXTENSION DEPARTURE DATE TO
   13 MAY.

2. FOLLOWING ARE THEIR SUPPOSITIONS REVEALED BY QUTIMID
   FOR SUDDEN RECALL:

A. AS FREQUENTLY REPORTED AMAGONIZE-I HAS VOICED
DISPLEASURE WITH WORKING CONDITIONS MADRID, AND SO

TO WIFE AMAUTO WHO CERTAINLY VEFONG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

RawUNIT NOTIPIGU

SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
-ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX: YES NO
DY
AT
CLASSIFY TO FILE. NO
A-REP TO FILE NO.
DISSEM O
ACTION
PER
FILE RID OPET TO
BRANCH
DESTHOY SIG.
INFO
RID COPY
FILE. VR.

IN ALTION, AMASONITE-1 MENEVER HAD GOOD RELATIONSHIP
WITH AMARPIST-1, HHC
WAS TOLD AMSTAFF AND FOCACCIZE!
REHVIOR.

B. WISE MANTO! SIPGESTED THAT PECAL! PROPARILY
STEMS FROM GENERAL PESOLUTION TO PREVENT FUTURE
AMDF TYPE DEFECTIONS, THESE CONVERSATIONS LEAVE
NO DOUBT THAT AMBEDE AFFAIR HAS CAUSED WIDESPREAD
AND DEEP CONCERN IN FONOFS. AMOFONIZE-1 COMMENTED SHE
SURE FONOFF THINKS THAT VULNERASILITIES WHICH CAUSED
AMBEDFW! DEFECTION ARE ALSO PRESENT IN HER CASE. NOTE
NO MENTION NAME AMBEDELI BIJT MANY PEFS TOFEFECTON,
"SERIOUS HAPONING PARIS, DESERTION, ETC."

C. AMAGONIZE-1 SUSPECTS FONOFF ALSO CONSIDERS
A RECRUITMENT TARGET BECAUSE OF UNEXPECTED INVITATIONS
BY AMAGONIZE-2 AND QUAXE-1 (AND POSSIBLY CONTACT WITH
QUCHESS 1). SHE INFORMED AMADISE! OF THESE CONTACTS
BECAUSE IT WAS HIS BUSINESS TO KNOW. (DURING A BUSINESS
CALL TO PBRUMEN EMS RECENTLY QUAXE-I INVITED AMAGONIZE-1
TO A DRINK SOME DAY. AMAGONIZE-1 OBVIOUSLY BECAME

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

PAGE 3 MADRID 8275 SECRET

SUSPICIOUS. QUAXE-1 MADE INVITATION ON OWN INITIATIVE BUT LATER TOLD CASE OFFICER.)

3. AMAUTO-1 AFRAID AMAGONIZE-1 MIGHT DEFECT AND MADE HER SWEAR SHE WOULD NOT. (AMAUTO-1 PROBABLY ALSO EXPRESSING FEARS OF FONOFF.) AMAGONIZE-1 CONSIDERED THIS PREFOSTEROUS BECAUSE OF HER COMPLETE LOYALTY TO THE FOREIGN MINISTER AND FACT SHE INCAPABLE ABANDONING HER DAUGHTERS. (WE SUSPECT FONOFF NOW QUESTIONING OR RE-THINKING BASIS HER LOYALTY AND THEIR TRUST IN HER. AMAGONIZE-1 HAS SAID THAT CHILDREN HOULD PROBABLY BE BETTER OFF WITHOUT HER THUS CONTRADICTING STATEMENT ABOVE.)

4. IN VIEW SERIOUS SITUATION DESCRIBED ABOVE, OBVIOUSLY PRECIPITATED BY AMBEDE AFFAIR, REQUEST HQS CONSIDER APPROACH TO AMAGONIZE-1 UNDER FJSTEAL FLAG BEFORE HER DEPARTURE 5 MAY. PITCH COULD ACCOMPLISH FOLLOWING:

A. SHE COULD ACCEPT PITCH AND WORK AGAINST PBRUMEN TARGETS. (THIS CONTRARY TO APPROACH AGREED UPON EY STATION AND HQS, BUT AMAGONIZE-1 FREQUENTLY STATED SHE ALONE AND HAS NO FRIENDS. HER BITTERNESS WITH PBRUMEN TACTICS RE HER RECALL MIGHT BE IMPETUS ENOUGH TO QUICKLY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

PAGE 4. MADRID 8275 SECRET

ACCEPT FRIENDLY OFFER FROM FJSTEAL NATIONAL SINCE SHE
WOULD IDENTIFY WITH HIM HER OWN NATIONAL ORIGINS.

B. IF SHE REFUSES PITCH AND RUNS TO SUPERIORS HERE
THIS COULD CONFIRM TO FONOFF HER VULNERABILITIES TO
RECRUITMENT AND WOULD PROBABLY RAISE MORE SERIOUS QUESTION
OF HOW LONG SHE WAS IN CONTACT WITH FJSTEALER. SHE MAY
NOT REVEAL PITCH BECAUSE BY SO DOING SHE WOULD BE CUTTING
OWN THROAT AND THIS WOULD MAKE HER SUBJECT TO SEVERE
SCRUTINY AND INTERROGATION. ON OTHER HAND IF SHE REVEALS
PITCH THIS MIGHT SERVE AMPURPLE OBJECTIVE AND MIGHT ALSO
RAISE QUESTION IN PBRUMEN MINDS ON WHETHER AMEEDEW-1
RECRUITED BY FJSTEAL OR BY WOLADY. (NO EVIDENCE PORUMENS
MADRID AWARE WOLADY INVOLVEMENT.)

5. FILE: 201-298225.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET (When Filled in)

ADVANCE COPY

ISSUED

SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED.

INDER: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET TO

BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

DISSEM BY
ACTION
C/WH 8
RID COPY
INFO. FILE: VR C/RI/SD, C/ETIK 5, C/F1 2, C/C1

548

SECRET 3012512 APR 6S CITE MADRID 8256

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI

ΡΥΞΑΤ ΤΥΡIC AMAUTO

30 APR 69 IN 47801

REF: MADRID 8156(,) 42197)

1. AMAUTO-2 REPORTED 29 APR THAT COULD NCT. RETAIN JOB WITH AMAUTC-1 HOUSEHOLD AND SHE TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT 4 MAY AFTER RETURNAMAUTO-1 AND WIFE FROM BARCELONA. CLAIMS SHE SPOKE WITH WIFE AMAUTC-1 NIGHT 22 APR ΑΞΟUT KEEPING JOS BUT WIFE ALREADY DECIDED THAT WANTED YOUNGER PERSON AND HAD ALREADY PLACED ADVERTISEMENT IN LOCAL PAPER. AYAUTO-2 NOW WORKING WITH NEW EMPLOYEE WHOSE LAST NAME NOT YET KNOWN, BUT A-2 WILL TRY OBTAIN. A-2 HAS PROVIDED LAYOUT AMAUTO-I'S OFFICE AT HOME AND DINING AREA.

2. A-2 TOO NERVOUS AND TIMID TO MEET OUR REQUIREMENTS AND NO AMOUNT REASSURANCE COULD MITIGATE FEARS.

3. A-2 WILL BE AVAILABLE TO WIFE AMAUTO-1 FOR PART TIME WORK THUS PREFER POAS NOT BE CANCELLED.

4. FILE: 201-845515.

SECRET

SECRET

AMAUTO-I


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

CRIG: LAWRENCE SULC:ch
UNIT: WH/COG/OPS
EXT: 7144/1819
DATE: 23 April 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF: SECRET CITE DIRECTOR 95667

TO MADRID INFO: WH/MIAMI 24 18 142 APR 69

RYBAT TYPIC AMAUTO

REF: MADRID 8156 (IN 42197)

1. POA REQUESTED FOR AMAUTO-5 (201-848517), A-3'S HUSBAND.

WILL ADVISE.

2. REQUEST AMPLIFICATION PARA 7 REF. RECRUITMENT OF
   AMAUTO-2 ACCOMPLISHED BY STATION UNILATERALLY, WHICH WE BELIEVE
   WAS DESIRABLE MEANS. UNLESS OVERRIDING LOCAL CONSIDERATIONS
   FOR SURFACING PLANS TO QUSEQUIN-37, WOULD SUGGEST CONTINUED
   UNILATERAL OPERATION.

3. FILE: 201-848517, 201-848515.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of DC/WH/COG] DC/WH/COG
![signature of E/IB] E/IB MR. SORRELS

![signature of JOHN H. SHERWOOD] JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

![signature of WILLIAM V. BROE] WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RYBAT

TO:

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, Europe Division
Chief of Station, Madrid

FROM:

SUBJECT:

TYPIC AMROSE AMBEDEW
Transmittal of Photographs for AMBEDEW-1 Recognition

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES:

Reference: DIRECTOR 93245

1.  Attached are 15 photographs of personalities both
    Cuban and non-Cuban who reside in the Madrid area. The majority
    are Cuban officials. We have added appropriate comments along-
    side the name of those individuals in whom we suspect are Cuban
    intelligence agents or collaborators. Another list will be
    forwarded as soon as photographs can be obtained.

Photo #1 Hector GALLO Portieles (known DGI)
Name mentioned by AMBEDEV-1

Photo #2 Ricardo DIEZ Gallart - commonly called Gallart
Code Clerk Madrid

Photo #3 Orestes BARREDA Perez, First Secretary formerly
in Switzerland, Mercedes ARIAS, wife

Photo #4 (right to left) Guillermo RUIZ Perez, Encargado
de Negocios; Nilde VECIANA de RUIZ, wife of
Encargado; Ricardo ESPINO Martinez, Commercial
Counselor

Photo #5 Ricardo ESPINO Martinez, Commercial Counselor

Photo #6 (arrows only) Guillermo RUIZ Perez,
Aristides DIAZ Rovirosa, First Secretary and
suspected DGI

(continued)

Attachment: H/W
Photographs

Distribution:

2 - C/WHD w/att

2 - C/EUR wo/att

2 - COS/WH/Miami wo/att

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OSHA-35059

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE

21 April 1969

MOS FILE NUMBER

65-120-20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CONTINUATION OF
PAGE 2 DISPATCH

SECRET

OSMA-25059

Photo #7
Guillermo RUIZ Perez
Aristides DIAZ Rovirosa and wife

Photo #8
Jose Andres MARTINEZ Sanchez aka Sorel (non de
plume) suspected collaborator who may be
closely integrated into leftist movement
in Spain.

Photo #9
(left to right)
Aristides DIAZ Rovirosa
Unidentified Cuban - we suspect that he is a
courier.
Unidentified
A Cuban entertainer - name unknown

Photo #10
Unidentified Cuban - possibly a courier

Photo #11
Another photo of Jose Andres MARTINEZ Sanchez
(in middle) see Photo #8.

Photo #12
Guillermo RUIZ Perez, Encargado de Negocios
Alfredo HIDALGO, Dominican national who vas
studying law in Ladrid very close to Hector
GALLO and Aristides DIAZ, both DGI

Photo #13
Julio CASTELLO Dumas, Cuban journalist
now in Madrid.

Photo #14
Vera BORODOWSKY Jackievich, (in center)
Secretary to RUIZ

Photo #15
Nilda VECIANA de RUIZ
Vera BORODOWSKY Jackievich
Guillermo RUIZ Perez

2. It is suggested that Headquarters show AMBEDEW-1 a
   number of photographs of QUMOON crewmen preferrably photos of crewmen
   on the international circuit including those of QUTRUNK-19,
   QUCRASH-1 and QUZONE-1. We would suggest against showing only
   those of our assets if photos of other crewmen are not available.

Howard R. SACODER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

> [Figure] Photograph of a man wearing glasses and a suit.

> [Figure] Photograph of a man wearing a suit and a tie.

> [Figure] Photograph of a man wearing a suit.

> [Figure] Photograph of a woman standing next to a man wearing sunglasses in front of a photograph and a clock.

> [Figure] Photograph of a man wearing a suit and a tie.

> [Figure] Photograph of a man wearing a suit.

> [Figure] Photograph of three men in suits.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

> [Figure] A group of men in suits standing together, possibly during a meeting or event. Some are looking directly at the camera, while others are engaged in conversation.

> [Figure] A group of men in different outfits, possibly during a casual meeting or discussion. One of the men is wearing a hat, and they all appear to be engaged in conversation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

> [Figure] A black and white photograph depicts an interior scene with a group of men standing around a table, likely in a formal setting such as a meeting or a reception. Some are wearing suits, and they appear to be engaged in conversation. There's a framed image or artwork hanging on the wall behind them.

> [Figure] This black and white photograph showcases a close gathering of individuals, mostly women, who are dressed elegantly. They are in close proximity, suggesting a personal connection, and seem to be engaged in a lively conversation, creating an atmosphere of camaraderie.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

> [Figure] A photograph of a group of people on display at a celebration, including some portraits of people who appear to have passed away.

> [Figure] A photograph of a group of men dressed in suits, possibly lawyers, conferring about a case.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

> [Figure] Photograph of a woman in a floral dress and a man with a tie, displayed on a board with cutouts of other people's faces.

> [Figure] Photograph of several people in suits, one of whom is holding a microphone and speaking.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

> [Figure] Photo of two men facing each other.

RUIZ estrecha la mano a un dominicano llamado HIDALGO.-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CABF. SERITARIAT DANT
CLA:
PERSONL:
TOTAL COPIES:
ROU:
ADVANCE: ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED
SECRET
(Verified in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
☐ YES ☐ NO
INDEX
CLASFY TO FILE NO:
"X-REF TO FILE NO:
INFO
BRANCH ☐ DESTROY ☐
C/6/SD C/TSD3, C/CI. /FI2, C/EURS
RID COPY
ACTION:
DDP ADDP CSDO
SECRET 2S1739Z MAR 69 CITE MADRID 7944
28 Mar 69 IN 24937
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI, FRANKFURT
RYBAT TYPIC TECHS
REF: A. OSMA-24746
B. MADRID 7945 (~24849)
1. REQUEST TRACES MARIA JESUSA (MARTIN) VILLAR AND
   JOSE ANTONIO (FERNANDEZ) CREGO, BOTH SPANISH CITIZENS WHO
   APPLYING FOR IMMIGRANT VISA FOR UNITED STATES. MARTIN
   CURRENTLY EMPLOYED AS DOMESTIC IN HOME AMAUTO-1. REGRET
   HAVE NO FURTHER BIO DATA ON COUPLE BUT BOTH OF ADVANCED
   AGE. SHOULD HAVE SOME BIO ON 31 MAR. INFO BELOW GLEANED.
   FROM QUTIMID.
2. FERNANDEZ RETURNED GALICIA BECAUSE OF DIFFICULTY
   FIND EMPLOYMENT MADRID. MARTIN ANXIOUS JOIN HIM SOONEST,
   BUT TRYING SAVE MONEY FOR TRAVEL. QUTIMID 20 MAR REVEALED
   THAT MARTIN PROCESSING FOR VISA TO STATES BUT IS KEEPING
   THIS NEWS FROM AMAUTOS. SHE RECEIVES MAIL FROM STATES
   AT HOME FEMALE FRIEND AND HER PHONE CONVERSATIONS WITH
   FRIENDS RE LETTERS ARE HUSH HUSK. SHE APPEARS PURPOSELY
   TRYING WITHHOLD INFO FROM AMAUTOS.
3. QUTIMID REPORTS THAT MARTIN WILL BE LEAVING
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

PAGE W MADRID 7944 SECRET

AMAUTO HOUSEHOLD IN JUNE ALTHOUGH AMAUTOS UNHAPPY BECAUSE
MARTIN APPARENTLY TRUSTED IN SENSE THAT AMAUTOS CONFIDENT
CHILDREN IN GOOD HANDS WHEN THEY LEAVE TOWN OR ARE
ENTERTAINING OUT. AMAUTOS WANT HER REMAIN WITH THEM
UNTIL AFTER THEIR HOME LEAVE JULY-AUGUST, BUT MARTIN WANTS
LEAVE BEFORE. (HOME LEAVE PLANS NEW TO STATION. WE REPORTED
EARLIER THAT AMAUTO-1 DID NOT WANT RETURN SPAIN.)

4. OPERATIONAL BREAK OCCURRED MORNING 28 MAR WHEN NAME
   OF FEMALE FRIEND UNCOVERED. REQUEST TRACES AND PRIORITY
   CLEARANCE ON TOMAS (HIDALGO) GATO (COMMONLY USE GATO AS LAST
   NAME), BORN HAVANA, 22 AUG 1911 AND ON WIFE, ALINA (FREYRE)
   BORN HAVANA 6 SEPT 1915. BOTH U.S. CITIZENS. FATHER OF
   TOMAS IS TOMAS GATO BORN KEY WEST, FLORIDA 26 DEC 1885.
   MOTHER CELIA GOIAS BORN KEY WEST 1892. ALINA NATURALIZED
   12 JUNE 1968. HIDALGO IS MANAGER WOOLWORTHS MADRID AND GOOD
   FRIEND AMERICAN CONSUL. IT WAS FROM CONSUL THAT WE OBTAINED
   INFO ON MARTIN AND HUSBAND. ALINA CAME TO EMBASSY 24 MAR TO
   INQUIRE INTO PROCEDURE OBTAINING VISA FOR MARTIN AND HUSBAND.
   QUTIMID LED US TO CONSUL.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

PAGE 3 MADRID 7944 SECRET

5. WITH APPROVAL AND FAVORABLE TRACES INTEND CONTACT
   HIDALGO AND WIFE FOR POSSIBLE INTRODUCTION MARTIN FOR USE
   EXPLAINED IN REF 5. HIDALGOS LEAVING MADRID 2 APR FOR
   APPROX TEN DAY VISIT TO STATES. HIDALGOS VERY GOOD FRIENDS
   OF FORMER AMERICAN CONSUL MARGARET HUSSMAN WHO NOW IN
   WASHINGTON. HQS MAY WANT CONTACT HUSSMAN FOR ASSESSMENT.
   NO STATION TRACES ON ALL ABOVE. PLS INDEX.

6. FRANKFURT: FYI ONLY.

7. FILE DEFER 201.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

ORIGI LARY SULC/act
UNITI WE/COG/OPS
EXT: K 1819
DATE: 11 APRIL 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:
SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SE

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

FILE IN CE FILE NO.

CONFI
C/WIT8
FILE. AVR. CRT/SO CLEURS, CLI

(classification)
SECRET

(date and time filed)
12 19 03APR63

CITE DIRECTOR
92231

TO MADRID INFO WH/MIAMI

RYBAT TYPIC
REF: MADRID 7966 (IN 26836)

1. POA GRANTED 11 APRIL AMAUTO-2 PROVIDE INFO ON
   AMAUTO-1. WILL ADVISE RE POAS AMAUTO-3 AND -4.

2. FILE: 201-848515.

END OF MESSAGE

JOHN H. SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

RELEASING OFFICCA

C/WH/COG
EUR/C Donald R. Jones

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICEA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSPUINATION
PERSONS NOT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
**SECRET**
(When Filled In)
TOTAL COPIES 24
ROU. 1 AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS MESSAGE IS PROHIBITED
INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
REF TO FILE NO.
BY:
AT:
2
INFO:
BRANCH
DESTROY
DISSEM BY:
ACTION:
RID COPY
FILE
c/PI/SD, c/TSD3, c/CI, c/FIZ, c/EVRS
DDP ADDR CEDO

044

SECRET 281742Z MAR 69 CITE MADRID 7945 28 MAR 69 IN 24849
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI, FRANKFURT
RYBAT TYPIC TECHS
MADRID 7944 (W 24937)

1. AS REPORTED EARLIER TRAFFIC AMAUTO-1
   HAS PRIVATE OFFICE IN HOME WHICH HE FREQUENTLY USES
   ACCORDING QUTIMID/QUODOZE. HAS HAD NUMBER OF MEETINGS with RUMANIAN REP. MARTIN OFFERS EXCELLENT OPPORTUNITY FOR COLLECTION INTEL ON AMAUTO-1 GUESTS AND HABITS, BUT MORE IMPORTANT HER ACCESS TO HOUSE MAKES IT POSSIBLE
   INTRODUCE SUITABLE AUDIO DEVICE IN AMAUTO-1'S PRIVATE OFFICE AS WELL AS DINING ROOM SINCE AMAUTO-1 FREQUENTLY ENTERTAINS HIGH LEVEL PBRUMEN VISITORS, OFFICIALS AND SPANISH BUSINESSMEN.

2. FILE DEFER 201.

SECRET

201-84857

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO: Chief, European Div., COS, WH/KIAMI

FROM: Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT: TYPIC/AMAUTO-1

PROCESSING ACTION:

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

X MARKED FOR INDEXING

NO INDEXING REQUIRED

ONLY QUALIFIED DESK CAN JUDGE INDEXING

MICROFILM

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

QUTIMID 21 February 1969 reported that AMAUTO-1 will be leaving Spain PCS in August 1969. He revealed this information to AMPOSSUM-1.

![Signature of Howard R. Sacoder]Howard R. SACODER

Distribution:

2 - C/WH

2 - C/EUR

2 - COS, WH/MIAMI

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE: 11 March 1969

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: OSMA-24926

HQS FILE NUMBER: 201-735296

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET
(man Pilled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT


DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.
4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION


9. ANALYST 8. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE DOCUMENT DISPOSITION 13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

16. PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ PEREZ, GUILLERMO 065-008-007
201-735296 OSMA-24877
SEX M 008 ? 28 FE3 69

CIT ?
OCC ?
CUBAN COMMUNIST PARTY MEMBER IN MADRID

UFA R 6903120462


15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

TLS 14 201- 735296



SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

C:LASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**
(When Filled in)

TOTAL COPIES 25

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SENT BY:

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDEX
YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID REF. TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG

DISSEM BY:
ACTION
PER
RIO COPY

INFO: FILE VR: C/II/SD, C/EUR 5, C/TSD 3, C/FI 2,
C/C1, C/CCS 2, C/CSPS

SECRET 03 15 15Z FEB 69 CITE FRANKFURT 15.65 3 FEB 69 IN 85183

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC AMAUTO TECHS

REF: OSMA-24746

1. PER REF, DURING NEXT TECH VISIT TO MADRID KUHAR ICH
   WILL DISCUSS PROPOSED REQUIREMENT.

2. KUHAR ICH WILL TDY MADRID UPON CHOLOMETES RETURN.

3. FILE: 201-735296.

SECRET

> STAMP
> Declassified
> Alva E. King
> WH/COG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# DISPATCH

**CLASSIFICATION**

RYBAT/SECRET

**PROCESSING ACTION**

TO: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

X MARKED FOR INDEXING

INFO: C/EUR Div., C/WOACRE; COB/Frankfurt MKNOVA

FROM: Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT: TYPIC/TECHS/AMAUTO-1

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

1. On 16 January 1969 QUTIMID reported a discussion between Subject and the Chief of the Rumanian Trade delegation in Spain, during which the Rumanian asked when they could meet. Subject invited the Rumanian to his home where, he said, he has set up a small office and was beginning to work more at home than in the office, because of the added comfort. (We wouldn't be surprised if this was suggested by his wife who is very jealous of her husband.) The meeting was arranged for 1130 hours on 17 January. AMAUTO-1 commented that he is up quite early in the morning, presumably to begin work in his office.

2. The above report is the first we have received on Subject's use of his home as an office. The invitation to the Rumanian, of course, casts suspicion on the nature of the conversation.

3. Since his move to new quarters, AMAUTO-1's home is about 50 yards from two WOFIRM staffers - Martin B. CRYMM and Conrad B. FALAGIARO. (See attached sketch). Edwin B. RATTEREE lives approximately 200 yards from the AMAUTO home. This proximity to AMAUTO-1's home by three staffers brings up the question of the use of an RF device to monitor conversations in AMAUTO's office at home, assuming at this time, that he has a phone in the office, most likely an extension of the home phone. For planning purposes, we would appreciate from MKNOVA a list of requirements for a target study in the use of an RF device. If other means are available for external penetration of his home we would welcome your suggestions and comments. Please advise us also if the P.F device is still a controlled item, which cannot be discussed with or released to liaison. Your earliest reply would be appreciated.

4.  267

OS COPY

Howard R. SACODER

Att: Sketch of Area-AMAUTO-1's home: Iden sheet use
Distributions 2-C/WH w/att: 2-C/EUR w/o att; C/WOACRE w/att: 2-CQB/Frankfurt/MKNOVA w/att

OSMA-24746

24 January 1969

RYBAT/SECRET

201-735296

CROSS REFERENCE TO

Larc


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

![hand drawn map of an area with streets, buildings, and handwritten labels indicating locations and distances]

CALLE

IDEND

CALLE

Iden F

A

Approx 200 yos
CALLE

C

B

IDENG

201-135-296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

RYBAT/SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATT.
OSMA-24746

IDEN A CALLE JEREZ

IDEN B CALLE TRIANA

IDEN C CALLE PIO XII

IDEN D Ralph Seehafer

IDEN E Howard Ellis

IDEN F C.H. Duffin

IDEN G Guillermo RUIZ Perez

RYBAT/SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

SECRET
(When Filled In)

POUCH SECURITY VIOLATION

DISPATCH NUMBER

OSMA-24746

ENCLOSURE NUMBER

SECURITY REGULATION(S) VIOLATED

CSI-F-110 -2 para. 4 d and a

SUBSTANCE OF VIOLATION

Agent (target) Compromised by printin
of contact, date & time of breach -

DATE

25 Jan 69

PAGE NUMBER

PARAGRAPH NUMBER

RID. ANALYST

FORM
6-64 2244

SECRET

(36-43)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

JAL SEOSETARA DISSEMINA

S.CRET

SECRET 0311522 JUL S6 CITE SACRID 5394

DIRECTOR IIFC JMCOBRA

TYFIC

ON QUIInic or 2 JUL IFE OF AMANTO-1.

SAID AAUTO-SERVATIONS FOR THEIR

DEPARTURE ron 540GUST TO GO ON

VACHELON.

CED THAT POSSIBLY AMADT-1

MORE ROP AT TO FURN TO HALRID.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

Chief, EUR Div., Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief of Station, Madrid

Operational/TYPIC/QUDOZE/MHGUILE Indications of Clandestine Activity planned by PBRUMEN Embassy in Madrid.

A. MADRID 4776

B. OSMA-23406, 12 Jan 68

1. In the four month period since the forwarding of ref B, the QUDOZE and QUTIMID Operations have continued to provide insights into the program of the PBRUMEN official establishment in Spain, the requirements laid on it and the evolution in the thinking of AMAUTO-1 and his staff as they work toward expanding their contacts and influence in the political, economic and cultural-propaganda fields. These developments will provide the subject matter for subsequent dispatches. However, in addition to such conventional "public relations", the QUDOZ Reports have recently carried evidence of MAGUILE activity. Because such activity automatically means PBHUMEN involvement in Spain's internal affairs, QUOTA has taken an even greater than usual interest in these developments. Translations of the transcripts detailing this information are given below.

2. The earliest and certainly the most striking MHGUILE information was forwarded under ref A describing AMAUTO-1's advice to AMADIEU-1 on the techniques of living a clandestine life, on the use of disguise and on the necessity for good organization for "with bad organization we are lost". Then, a QUDOZS Report of 30 April 68 summarized a discussion on the lack of personnel in the Embassy to make scientific and technical contacts, at which time AMAUTO-1 digressed into describing the cover for a new member of the staff whom he apparently expected to arrive in the near future. ".....what is lacking is a comrade who could take care of the cultural and apparently the technical aspect also. Who could also ascertain who are the Americans, their addresses, in what streets are located their...." He adds that this comrade will have to move about, to make contacts, to be up on everything, and if time remains to do other things. He added that he remembers the President (of PBRUMEN) gave much importance to this as a matter of honor for all the missions abroad. He repeated that the technical aspect (i.e.collecting technical information) required a coarade, a

Distribution:
2 - C/WH Div.
1 - C/EUR Div.

COS/JHWAVE

OSMA-23370.

SECRET

28 May 1968

65-6-44/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET OSHA-23870.

comrade who learns the details of foreign commerce in order to be able to converse wall with people. Apparently this would be a type of overt specialty that they would give to the comrade who in order to hide the true purpose of his mission which would be to collect information for them as AMAUTO-1 is heard to comment that they have to "invent" the work of this comrade in order that he might have a definite specialty: AMAUTO-1 seems to be thinking of a specific person because he comments that he speaks two languages, that he likes economics, and adds that at the end of two months he would be ready:

3. Following the return of AMADRIFT-1 on the 7th of March 68, via PBRUMEN national flight, after home leave in PBRUMEN, the QUDOZE matorial reported extensive conversations between AMADRIFT-1 and AMAUTO-1 on future plans. Two were of MHGUILE interest:

A. QUDOZE Rport of 13 March 68. AMAUTO-1 says, "this is... with the American movement in Spain and with the monopoly that they have here". He says, "In my judgement our fundamental problem in Spain from the political point of view is to ascertain what there is behind all this, what is there here, we must get ourselves in motion". "That is a very important point for us, to ascertain what are their names, who are those who are here, how they (the Americans) are moving". He adds that, "If we are able to find out, ve will be able to stop then completely."

B. QUDOZE Report of 14 Mar 68. AMAUTO-1 says that they have to find out "what are the forces in Spain, with the pos- sibility of our having access (to them)". He comments that Spain, is at a crossroads internally and externally. He says they have to find out what is happening in Spain, whether they give the workers liberty to strike, etc. He again repeats all they have to find out, mentions find- ing out "who are the conarchists, what forces they repre- sent, to what forces are they united, who are the elements that are being financed by the CIA and by the American Embassy", "Which are those scattered elements that the newspaper of the Movement has accused of being backed by the American Embassy, what financial power do they have?"

4. AMAUTO-1 had apparently set great hope on the 1 May 68 anti-government demonstration by workers and students which, as Headquarters is aware, the police effectively handled. In a 2 May QUDOZE Report, AMAUTO-1 repeatedly commented on what a tremen- dous failure the demonstration had been; he kept asking AMADRIFT-1 what had happened, why the Spanish people had not responded, why the workers had not, and finally said "The next demonstration we are going to name here a member of the Embassy".

Jane D. ASTRAHAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# SECRET

Chief, European Division

Chief, Western Hemisphere Divisiου

Chief of Station, Madrid

QUDOŻE

1. The following conversation came from Subject source:

(At a meeting with Hector GALLO and Aristides DIAZ, the following statement was made by Guillermo RUIZ, Cuban Charge d'affaires:

"You know why I'm saying this....because the CIA is directly intervening in the internal affairs of the country, ARAGON can say it, the DGS Director can say it, as well as our dear friend Don Camilo PONSEVEDRA (phon.), and here they don't permit this or anything because they know very well that......here the Soviet KGB as well as the American CIA can't.....because the Spaniards..... hate it so much. The Americans are trying to asphyxiate this government, first because while FRANCO is in power there is always the great danger of a revolt here. The Americans want to have a government in Spain of the type Italy, France and West Germany have, a stable government, that has a high middle class, and where there is a high standard of living, because when you have the difference between the individual who is eating.....and the individual who is eating a chicken, then you have a dangerous problem, because in Latin America we have.... but here in Europe it's different, that is why I'm telling you this.....they can be inter- vening in the government.....that is why we must try to find out."

2. Following is the identity of the personnel involved -

a. Hector GALLO Protieles, First Secretary of Cuban Embassy, also believed to be Chief, DSE officer stationed at the Embassy.

b. Aristides DIAZ Rovirosa, Second Secretary/Press Attache, also possibly involved in intel matters.

c. Guillermo Orestes RUIZ Perez, Charge d'Affaires.

Distribution:
2 - C/EUR; 2 - C/WH

OSMA-23813 7 May 1968

SECRET 65-6-44/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

SECRET

CSMA-23813

The exact identities of ARAGON and MONSEVEDRA are not known. The DGS refers to Direccion General de Seguridad which is the Spanish Internal Security Service.

Edwin W. RATTEREE

SECRET

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSE MINATION.
PERSONNEL NOTIFIED

![checkbox] ISSUED
![checkbox] SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIES 47 ROUTING AND ORIGINALS - SEEN BY

GROUP:
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

![checkbox] YES  ![checkbox] NO

REF TO FILE NO.

FILE AID RET: TO
DESTROY

INFO
FILE: EUROPE WH8, CI. CI/OPS, CI/RA
CI/OR. CILICE, FI. FI/INTZ, TSOL

DISSEV
ACTION: WH/COGS ![checkbox] NO COPY

SECRET.241715Z APR 68 CITE MADRID 4776

DIRECTOR, JOWAVE

TYPIC MHGUILE 24 APR 68 $7392

1. FOLLOWING AS OF POSSIBLE INTEREST IS TRANSLATION OF PORTION OF QUDOZE TAKE OF 4 APRIL 68:

B012
IDEN A HOLDS A CONVERSATION WITH IDEN B. IDEN

A GIVES HIM ADVICE AND INSTRUCTIONS RELATED TO THE FACT THAT IN THE FUTURE HE WANTS IDEN B TO BE DISGUISED WHEN HE MEETS PEOPLE. (IT IS DIFFICULT TO SAY IF IDEN A ALSO REFERS TO OTHER PEOPLE IN THE EMBASSY AS WELL). ONLY PHRASES CAN BE DISTINCTLY UNDERSTOOD: IDEN A: YOU ARE ALREADY CLANDESTINE, YOU KNOW THAT NOT EVERYTHING IS BAD NEWS. ORGANIZATION AND NO CONTACTS, AN ORGANIZATION IN CHARGE OF LOOKING FOR HOUSES, MEANS ..... THAT IS TO SAY, TO BE ABLE TO CHANGE YOUR FACE QUICKLY. USE ELEVATED SHOES TO APPEAR TALLER, YOU HAVE TO CHANGE EVERYTHING, WHEN YOU START LIVING IN THE COMMUNITY, THEN NOT ONLY MUST YOU LIVE SECRETLY BUT YOU MUST ALSO CHANGE YOUR

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

PAGE 2 MADRID 4776 SECRET

APARTMENT. WHEN YOU MEET WITH PEOPLE FOR EXAMPLE,

YOU PUT ON THE .... AND THEN WHEN THE MEETING IS

OVER, YOU CHANGE YOUR APPEARANCE AND GO OUT TO

THE STREET. IDEN 5: .....THEY WERE ABLE TO GET

TRUCKS, MACHINERY, ARMS, PACKAGES OF .... BUT

IT SEEMS THAT THE POLICE DETAINED THEM. IDEN A:

WITH BAD ORGANIZATION WE ARE LOST. IDEN A LATER

COMMENTS THAT HE WAS ONLY ARRESTED ONCE, BUT IT

WAS ONLY A JOKE, BUT ASIDE FROM THAT HE SAYS

THEY NEVER CAUGHT HIM.

2. IT NOTED THAT QUOTAS VERY EXCITED OVER THIS

PORTION OF THE QUDOZE TAPE.

3. PLS INDEX IDEN B.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

TOTAL COPIES 4 ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

INDEX
YES NO

BY AT
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

DISSEM BY 9 PER
X-REF TO FILE NO
ACTION WH/CCGS AD COPY
FILE RID RET TO
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG
INFO:
FILE EURS. WH8.CI.CILOPS CIRA

CILA, CILICZ FI FILINT2, TSAG

SECRET 241716Z APR 68 CITE MADRID 4777 24 APR 68 97376

DIRECTOR, JM WAVE

TYPIC MHGUILE

REF: MADRID 4776 (CIN 97355)

IDEN A: GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ

IDEN B: ARISTIDES DIAZ ROVIROSA

SECRET

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
# SECRET

FILE INDY CHRS LLL

SECRET 131152 FEB 63 CITE MADRID 4154
DIRECTOR INFO JACAVE, FRANKFURT

TYPIC CHAPRON TECHS

1. STATION INVESTIGATING POSSIBILITY TECHNICAL
   SURVEILLANCE IN RESTAURANT WHICH AMAUTO-1 HAS IDENTIFIED
   ON QUDOZE AS HIS FAVORITE RESTAURANT IN MADRID. IDEN
   RESTAURANT PARTIALLY OWNED BY QUSEELY-1 WHO CASE OFFICER
   CONVINCED WILL DO ANYTHING ASSIST IN OPERATION. HAVE NOT
   YET APPROACHED HIM THIS EASIS.

2. STATION INFORMAL CASING RESTAURANT ON 12 FEB FINDS
   NO VASES OR MOVABLE OBJECTS ON TABLES SUITABLE FOR CONTAINING
   MICROPHONES. UNDERTABLE INSTALLATION VERY LIKELY UNSUITABLE
   IN VIEW DIRECTIONAL NOISES FROM OTHER TABLES.

3. STATION INVESTIGATING POSSIBILITY PURCHASE SMALL
   RENDER VASES TO CONTAIN ARRANGEMENT TWO OF THREE FLOWERS
   FOR EACH TABLE AND WOULD REQUEST SUITABLE INSTALLATION BY
   ORTOPAZ IN AT LEAST TWO VASES OF SMALL MINI TRANSMITTER,
   TYPE TO BE DECIDED AFTER DETERMINATION EXACT SIZE VASES.

4. THIS CABLE ONLY FOR PURPOSE ADVISING ADDRESSEE STATIONS
   FACTS THIS OPERATION WHICH CONSIDERED OF VALUE IN VIEW


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

PAGE 2 NADRID 41543ECRET

CIDOTE HAS DISCLOSED OCCASIONS IN WHICH AMAUTO-I HAS
CALLED SPANISH CONTACTS TO MEET THEM AT IDEN RESTAURANT
FOR BUSINESS CONVERSATIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# DISPATCH

Chief. Fmopean Division

## SECRET

Chief, WH Div., COS, JIWAVE

Chief of Station, Madrid

KAPOK QUDOZE

AMAUTO-1 Discussion of Missiles

1.  On 10 January 1968, AMAUTO-1, in one of his many daily discussions with his subordinates, reflected on the international position of his country, and among the things he said, we quote the following which may be of possible interest to addressees. Although part of the discussion was not heard because of the emotional inflection of the speaker, we feel that the jist of the discussion is clear and understandable.

"We are demonstrating to the world that Cuba...is favorably disposed to do whatever...(AMAUTO-1 begins to talk against the United States) that when the Americans have to raise the white flag...because the first plane that appears on radar. (AMAUTO-1 is speaking excitedly and it is very difficult to understand each word but it appears that he is talking about the positions of missiles in Cuba), Havana, Las Villas and Camaguey and that with these missiles, we can cover Miami, New York, and all their bases and all of their "mierda"... if the Americans say they are going to sad them (missiles? planes?), we will send them; if they (Americans) say they are going to invade us, the first plane that comes to invade... (AMAUTO-1's sub- ordinate remarked that 15 October 62 marked a point in international politics, when the Yankees ordered the Soviets to withdraw their missiles). .(AMAUTO-1 injected) "they (the Soviets) presented them (the Cubans) with ten bombs".

2.  Our reason for reporting this fragmentary information is that AMAUTO-1 might be confirming the presence of offensive ais- siles in Cuba.

![signature of Howard R. SACODER]

Howard R. SACODER

201-735296

Distribution:

2 - C/EUR

2 = C/NHD

1 = COS/JAWA VE

OSMA-23513

## SECRET

9 February 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO:
Chief, European Division
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

FROM:
Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT:
Operational/TYPIC/MHAPRON/QUTIMID/QUDOZE
Plans of New Cuban Ambassador in Madrid

1.  The new Cuban Ambassador to Spain, Orestes Guillermo RUIZ, Perez arrived in Madrid on the Iberia flight of 3 December 1967 accompanied by his wife, Wilda, and three sons. CALZADILLA, RUIZ's predecessor had not been a strong administrator and had let the various components of the Cuban official establishment in Spain run their own affairs. This fact plus the inevitable tendency of a new chief to be a "new broom" and rearrange things according to his own lights, led Station Madrid to expect some changes particularly within the Embassy. However, the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations have shown RUIZ at least initially to be an aggressive and well organized individual with ideas of his own that clearly reflect his background in commercial affairs and prepared to make changes that promise to go beyond the superficial sweeping of a new broom. Underlying RUIZ's actions and proposals is the clear implication that he came to Madrid with the specific task of upgrading the Cuban mission in Spain both in terms of prestige and effectiveness. Station Madrid will transmit to the addressees the relevant information on this program as it becomes available from the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations along with information on the official Cuban personalities administering the program.

2.  A striking difference between RUIZ and his predecessor was noted in the QUDOZE and QUTIMID reports of that first week. RUIZ has no inhibitions over spending money. One of the Embassy cars, a Peugeot was replaced with a new model and there was discussion of replacing the other two Pougeots with new ones. Nilda, RUIZ's wife, was picked up by the wife of COVIN who turned $200 over to her to go shopping at the Corte Inglesa, one of madrid's two best.

Distribution:

2 - C/WH Division

2 - C/KUR Division

2 - COS, JMWAVE

Continued ....


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

OSYA-23,406

known department stores. RUIZ checked with GALLO, his deputy, on the propor clothes for diplomatic functions in Madrid and an appointment was to be made with a tailor. Nilda declared that the apartment where CALZADILLA and his family had lived economically was inadequate and they decided to look for a chalet, something very spacious and well-priced. They subsequently seriously considered one known to rent for 30,000 pesetas ($500) per month and then turned it down, apparently for reasons other than price. A new tolex machine was ordered for the Embassy. The technician stated they could install a teletype that could only receive, not send, messages but this seemed acceptable.

3. On Monday, 4 December 1967, the day after his arrival, RUIZ ordered the Cuban consuls in Barcelona, Sevilla and Vigo to Madrid for a meeting. The order was couched in terms of "wanting to meet" thêm, but after their arrival on Wednesday, 6 December, all partics settled down to a detailed meeting in which primary attention was given to administrative matters, trade and propaganda. The latter two subjects will be dealt with in separate dispatches. On the administrative side, RUIZ listened sympathetically to complaints about low salaries, old buildings and inadequate operating budgets and concluded by asking for a monthly report on receipts and expenses and a report on the consuls' current needs, their monthly balances and their administrative activities. The printing and telephone bills were the two items of expense that kept recurring throughout the discussions.

4. By the end of the week, RUIZ had prepared a report on the situation he found in the Chancerry and the mission in general for forwarding to Havana and which he first discussed with his subordinates. He started by assuring them that he had "found great co-operation among all the comrades in this mission" and declared that the staff was complete. Apparently, RUIZ intends to make no personnel changes and Hector GALLO Portieles, who had previously been most eager to return PCS to Havana, now has gone to Havana on vacation. He left Madrid on the 20 December 1967 Iberia flight.

5. The Cuban mission has certain financial problems since the present budget dates from previous yer's and does not cover current expenses. However, the "new economic activities of the consulate" are expected to assist with the problem. Here RUIZ is presumably referring to the pressure brought to bear in November 1967 by Cuban sympathizers in the Spanish Foreign Office working through the Customs and the Immigration Office to force Cuban exiles to register with the Cuban consulate and pay the $22.50 fee for a valid passport. Enough exiles have responded to this pressure to relieve some of the financial problems of the Cuban mission. This source of income will last as long as the Cubans' friends in the Foreign Ministry are able to assist them.

6. The reception of Cuban official travelers at the airport and the handling of Embassy pouches poses a continuing administrative problem for the Embassy. Jose. DIAZ Puga, who is in charge of this airport work has to devote himself exclusively to taking care of the couriers and their pouches when any come in, leaving visitors to fend for themselves. This situation has been alleviated by other Embassy staff members jaunting out to the airport at will to meet the incoming planes. Now, RUIZ has declared that the rest of the staff must stay in the Embassy because they have a work plan to fulfill. Thus, he has left himself with an unresolved problem he must face in the very near future.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH OSMA-23,406

7. The new Ambassador concluded his report with three recommendations:

a. Rent another building where the Chancillary, the Commercia Office, the Consulate and the Cubana Offices can all be housed instead of being dispersed in separate buildings as they are now;

b. Rent or preferably buy a residence for the Chief of Mission. The one they now have is not adequate;

c. Send another person from Cuba who has the background to take care of scientific work plus continuing the contacts the Mission will have already made. In view of RUIZ's previous statement on the completeness of the staff, such a person would likely be a "non-official" representative of one of Cuba's cultural fronts such as the Casa de las Americas.

8. RUIZ concluded his remarks by saying that in Spain there is a tremendous field for the Cubans, they have no language problem and they can do a great work. Such is the goal RUIZ has proclaimed and that Station-Madrid-believes he was sent to attain.

Jane D. ASTRAHAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# Informe N° 729
221-81-87

Página -1-
D
4 de septiembre 1968

1. VERA LLAMA A LA CALA LEPORIDE.- Para decir que están interesados en comprar un automóvil y pide los visite un vendedor con los modelos. Quedan en pasar mañana por la mañana.

2. LA SPA: DALIA RABOS (Cubana) LLAMA A RUIZ.- Esta señora conoce a RUIZ porque estuvieron juntos en la escuela, en Cuba cuando cumplio tenía 12 o 13 años. Hace 20 años que no se ven y RUIZ le comenta que cuanto lo ves no va a conocerio por se ha cantado mucho. DALIA (Lola) lo comenta que ella no cree que haya cambiado mucho, (ella) es rubio de ojos verdes y que en cambio ella (D’Lia) se tiene el pelo.

Está en Canada con el hermano de MARIO GARCIA INCHAUSTEGUI, MADOLITO. Está en la Playa de Canila, Valencia pasando una temporada y cuando regrese a Madrid visitará a RUIZ, en la oficina. RUIZ le dice que la invitará entonces a comer juntos. El objeto de la llamada de Lola es proponerle a REMINIO HITA, puertorriqueño-espanol, que quiere hacer contacto con Cuba para exportar ajo. HERMINIO HITA es primo de MARIO GARCIA INCHAUSTEGUI. GUILLERMO lo invita a pasar por la oficina el lunes por la mañana.

3. VERA LLAMA A UN AMIGO DE PILIA que parece cubano.- Le pregunta al Pilia que visita ahora y él le contesta que acaba de ver. A ARISTIDES. Vera le comenta que tiene una cosa que decirle y éste le dice que lo invite a cenar a su casa (de VERA). Ella le dice que lo invita si mañana (el amigo) cediese.

4. PERSONA QUE NO SE IDENTIFICA LLAMA A ANDRES MARTINEZ.- Para cobrarlo una cuenta. ARISTIDES le dice que ya no trabaja con ellos y le da la dirección donde vivos. Virgen del Coro 12 o 14.

FIB.-

Copy of att to OSMA-24210, 10.fept '68

201-735296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

26 septiembre 1968
123-16

"Informales entre C. I. Lito y Bula recalcó haber conversado con las parlamenta del clima... alle dieron que es una útil acción ... al (este?)
Le as lectorantes del Pt100. Parece ser que esto se escalona
porque aún no ha asistido a ninguna (a/o se analizan... ... allá durante otros asuntos importantes (decirlo en caso), y fue sumamente relacioable con el clima.
Calle sigue insistiendo sobre la obligación moral que tienen con el SIME. Ruiz ya un poco incmodo le dioc que el (Ruiz) en nuestro partido
... caso socio-desarrollista ... etc. Ruiz ya insistió que han de coordinarse).

Ruiz dice a F. A. que lo complira el maestro campesino! ... debe tener 2000 m/d de linea por teléfono a Lito. -- Habla con ..., le pregunta al primero (Lare) si de pronto le que le envió el ... nombre deberá de instruirse de inmediaton a un curso. .. parece había visto en arzuela, en que se verán carnita al SIME."

Y Avila a ... que si el nombre del doctor es J... ... más útil saber.

ey. of att. to OSMA-24303
15 Oct 1968

411-735296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

1. LA ******. . . . le dicen que si aspirase a su revisión
   .-. después de ******* que dirigirse al instituto ***** de on ******
   ***. 45.

2. ***********,  ****** decirte que en S. V. . . . está
   *** serio de hoy, salió de París un poquito "que ya lo iba
   *** en *" y va como carga acompañada por él (*1.000.- Ptas.). AHORA
   ***. Afín de que me ayudes y a ******* de, como, *******, me
   ***de este tributo para su *******, *******. Parece una
   *** por que viaja con *******. (Véase inf. 822, párr. 3).

3. ******* - Para decirle de ******* la gente viendo
   *** por la tarde en el medio de Italia 161.

4. ******************************

5. **VARA LLAMA A SILVIA**.- Para que diga a GUILLERMO que ella está dejando
   *** en su escritorio: de él en confidencia(el que manda TELE oido de Portu
   ***al para la *******.

***: Parece que unos están dis-, no
*** dándose a que tenían *******, a unos chiquillos a que tenían
*** en mí 4 . . . parece les han ******* a *******. ref. . . . de * a. . . y
*** a la de los "son unos hijos de...", ref. . . . de * a. . . y
***. A LA ******* a callar !". . . ¡ YA SILVIA le ******* estoy
*** negra y lo que hay es una comemoria. ". Comento que "el que ha movido
*** esto es el marido de la otra (parece que refiriéndose a GAJO). Sea
*** la que lo quiere sustituir a SILVIA y NYR, le dice que SILVIA ha com
***tado de que ella no quiere recomendación de nadie, ni de JMR (al oír)
*** y que va a poner un anuncio en el periódico. (¡OJO! el ******* o
***ea rubio en foto no . . .!
***da LUIZ, [sic] , pañuelos y corbatas). Parece que SILVIA lleva 20 años traba
***jando con el personal cubano y MARIA 13 años.

***.
*** que ella es rica ******* de . . . a y tiene noticias de . . . a
*** a 2 ******.
*** la *******, ve que a esta casa ahora vendrá un
***
51-1-73539!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, European Division
Chief of Station, JMCOBRA

FROM:
Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT:
Operational/TYPIC/QUDOZE/QUTIMID/MHAPRON
Guillermo RUIZ Perez

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

1. Guillermo RUIZ Perez, Charge d'Affaires of the Culan Embassy in Madrid, has occupied that post for nearly a year. During that time, the QUDOZE/QUTIMID material has revealed various facets of his personality, showing him to be a man of volatile temper, an incessant talker and with more breadth of experience and outlook than the other members of the local Cuban mission.

2. In his public relations RUIZ seems to do well. Here in Spain he has been interested in meeting as many people as possible and in widening his circle of acquaintances. No matter what their political views may be, he feels it is worth establishing some kind of relationship with them and will listen attentatively to persons with a good reputation in the intellectual world. He has laid great emphasis on cultural matters in outlining his plans for the Embassy's activities. He has shown a certain intellectual restlessness, a desire to keep abreast of events in the world outside of Cuba and a willingness to accept whatever he deems to be good or useful from that exterior world. Thus, during his early conversations with his staff soon after his arrival, he extolled the virtues of the Yankee system of "briefing" and the fact that executives have privacy for thinking without being bothered by the routine details of the office RUIZ has been concerned over having Cuba and the Cubans well thought of in Spain. He early said he was pre-occupied by the interpretation he would be able to give to Cuba here, that cultural relations were continued....

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD
2 - C/EUR
2 - COS, JMCOBRA

GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification

| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | DATE              |
| -------------------------- | ----------------- |
| OSMA-24,212                | 13 September 1968 |
| CLASSIFICATION             | HCS FILE NUMBER   |
| SECRET                     | 65-6-44/3         |
|                            | 65-2-10/9         |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

OSMA-24,212

reduced to a very narrow circle and since Cuba was "in" economically it was now necessary to give attention to the political and cultural fields. He later commented on the fact that Cuba is practically unknown in Spain, Chat Caban products are never seen in the local stores and that the view of Cuba of the average Spaniard has come from the exiles. He has continued to discuss the need for advertising Cuban products and considered decorating his office and his home with Cuban items and furnitüre so he could show a little bit of Cuba to his Spanish and foreign contacts. Another consequence of this desire to put Cuba's best foot forward is a certain harshness in dealing with the shortcomings of his colleagues and fellow Cubans outside the mission, calling attention to any deficiencies in their conduct and ways of dealing with the persons they meet. As recently as in a QUDOZE report of 13 July he was complaining that the Cubans seem to have lost the elegant touch in their public functions.

3. RUIZ's attitude toward money follows logically from his desire that Cuba's prestige increase and he is quite willing to spend money where it will show. The Embassy's 6 January reception was an expensive affair, the Embassy and Commercial officers take their Spanish contacts to the best restaurants, he and his wife pay 30,000 pesetas (approximately $ 430.00) rent per month for a house deemed suitable to his position and buy new clothes without hesitation for the various diplomatic functions. Before he went on home leave on 6 August 1968, he was encouraging his staff to rent better apartments that would more nearly match their status as diplomats and his wife was looking for a different house for them, one with fewer maintenance headaches and with rooms large enough for small receptions of as many as 40 people. All of this is quite in accord with RUIZ's own bourgoisa tastes, reflected more than any thing else in his great Interest in clothes and in being well dressed. Yet the Cuban mission operates on a slim budget and the salaries are not high. Station Madrid has no information on whether Cuban mission personnel receive a housing allowance but assumes they must as otherwise RUIZ, at least, could never make ends meet. RUIZ earns à gross salary of $681.50 per month and all his living expenses including clothes, food, medical expenses, education for the couple's 5 children and perhaps utilities must come from this sum. RUIZ also expects to be able to invite Cuban officials transiting Madrid and his Spanish and foreign contacts home for lunch or dinner at any time. There is no indication that he receives a representation allowance yet he will allow his wife to charge nothing except the salaries of two maids to the Embassy and she can't economize on food when they are alone because he will go out to a restaurant rather than eat rice and beans. RUIZ is plainly cautious in his dealings with Havana over money, even while wanting to live as well as possible in Madrid. The difference in the couple's manner of living between Havana and Madrid must be striking since RUIZ had a good position in the Ministry of Foreign Commerce prior to becoming Charge d'Affaires and yet his wife told Vera, the Embassy secretary and her closest friend, that she did not have a refrigerator in Cuba and would like to take one back with her if they did not return to Madrid after home leave!


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET OSMA-24,212

4. As an individual, RUIZ has appeared in QUDOZE/QUTIMID as nervous, capricious, quick tempered. In contrast to his pleasant public appearance and his usually acceptable telephone language, bis private conversation is vulgar, low and full of ugly words. He swears continually and flies off into rages. He is a compulsive talker and apparently uses his long conversations and his consultations over some course of action as a means of psychological reinforcement. He has given the impression of being insecure in his position and when faced with an accumulation of problems in the office prior to home leave, was talking of resigning and returning to Cuba. This insecurity may account for his touchiness over the way he is treated by the Spaniards, especially those in government positions. He has been noted describing several of his interviews with Spanish Ministers or people holding important government positions at great length, going into much detail on the length of the meeting, if they shook hands, if the person smiled, if he liad anything nice to say about Cuba or the Cubans, etc. As the addressees know, RUIZ came to his post as a transfer from the Ministry of Foreign Commerce. On numerous occasions he has said that his life interest is in commerce and industry and prior to his vacation in Cuba, he was increasingly depressed over his present position and his ability to fill it, which may account for some of this sense of personal uncertainty. He has seemed a hard worker and a man with good ideas on the work of the Embassy and how it should be organized, ideas which he has repeated endlessly, but he has been unable to inspire in his subordinates. In his disputes with GALLO in June he complained about the lack of team spirit in the office.

5. RUIZ's political ideas are centered in the Cuban revolution and the Station considers him as an unquestioned regime supporter. However, his approach is different from that of the younger, less. intelligent men who have known nothing else. RUIZ has had a sufficient breadth of education and experience to make a choice, to have reached his own decision that the Castro regime is good for Cuba and that Marxism as interpreted by the Cubans is an adequate intellectual foundation for life. A QUDOZE Report of 13 December 1967 included a discussion with a Spanish employce of the Embassy during which RUIZ explained that the Cuban revolution is different from any other revolution there. has ever been in the world, that it has different characteristics and trajectories, that in spite of having a mark of Marxist principles it has many variations which make it different. These variations are unknown even to some of the comrades themselves. In a QUDOZE Report of 23 June, he commented on certain features of the Cuban system as "very difficult to understand unless one is of the left". The QUDOZE Report of 4 July quoted extensively in OSMA-24,112 of 9 August 1968 showed most clearly RUIZ's view of Cuba and the revolution as one entity and to see himself within that structure, a part of it and serving it. Beyond that, his mind runs in business and public relations rather than political channels and he has shown less interest in the policies than in the power relationships of the men within the hierarchy who administer the policies. He has been able to avoid sounding doctrinaire in his discussions and has been able to deal satisfactorily with the wide variety


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET
OSMA-24,212

of people he likes to meet. This last winter the couple was able to find a secular school for their children where they would not be taught religion. Along with the rest of his staff RUIZ has exaggerated ideas about the size and aggressive intentions of the WOFIRM organization in Spain and is always on the lookout for a "provocation" even to the extent of refusing to receive an unknown newspaper man who called for an interview.

6. RUIZ seems to have little time for his wife, Nilda, and their children and, at least in public, his attitude toward his wife has been quite curt. He has mentioned on at least two occasions having "his problems at home" and that all married couples have problems they alone can solve, but he has never discussed them. Nilda, for her part, in her long conversations with Vera has made no comments that would indicate any special problems. She had always worked prior to coming to Spain and at first was quite discontented with a life of idleness, but adjusted herself to her new situation. She appears intelligent, competent, a good mother and probably a good business woman. She is outspoken but also solicitous and affectionate with her husband, always interested in his work and encouraging him in what he does. RUIZ, like most of the members of his staff, has health problems. He has had trouble with his back since 1955 and here in Spain has had colds and an intensification of the pain in his back.

7. Despite health problems, office problems and whatever feelings of inadequacy he may have had, home leave must have done RUIZ good for he returned to Madrid on 30 September 1968 for another year and his wife and children are expected to follow shortly.

![Signature of Jane D. ASTRAHAN]
Jane D. ASTRAHAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back Pages PH '69 and forward to RID. JAN 16

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or if Reim its roquir D ing preservation.

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM: PROPER FILE NO.

RID/AN

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 'I' ON BACK. IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO                 | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| ------------------ | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ |
| 1. UWH/REC         |          | 22 JAN 1958   |                | AM                 |
| 2.                 |          |               |                |                    |
| 3.                 |          |               |                |                    |
| 4. WH/K/CI         |          |               |                |                    |
| 5. WH/FI           |          |               |                |                    |
| 6. C. Romie. Rocky |          | 9 MAY 1968    |                |                    |
| 7.                 |          |               |                |                    |
| 8.                 |          |               |                |                    |
| 9.                 |          |               |                |                    |
| 10.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 11.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 12.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 13.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 14.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 15.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 16.                |          |               |                |                    |
| 17. RID/FI         |          |               |                |                    |

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | INDEX |
| ------------- | -------- | ----- |
|               | X        |       |

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)

201-735296

DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER

12 JAN 1967 OSMA 23400

SECRET

Eres

22 JAN 1963

K

_Make sure that there
are rules. one can
get to the_

![signature]

Coan m

RUZ-Fm #55 Vol. II

BCHODOWSKY-from #57 Vol III


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# DISPATCH

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief, European Division

Chief of Station, Madrid
Operational/TYPIC/MHAPRON
Biographic Data and Photos of RUIZ and BORODOWSKY

Action Required: FYI

Forwarded herewith for the information of the addressees is the biographic data and photos on the new Cuban Ambassador to Spain Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296) and his wife and on RUIZ's secretary Vera BORODOWSKY Jackiewich (201-298225). The material was secured through liaison.

Jane D. ASTRAHAN

Attachment: As stated above

Distribution:
2 - C/WH Division, w/att H/W
2 - COS, JMWAVE, w/att H/W
2 - C/EUR Division, w/o att

GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification

OSMA-23,400

12 January 1968

SECRET

200-120-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# NEGATIVES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# Ministerio de la Gobernacion

DIRECCIÓN GENERAL
DE SEGURIDAD

COMISARIA GENERAL
DE INVESTIGACION SOCIAL

Madrid, 22 de diciembre de 19 67

Asunto: ORESTES-GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ, ENCARG.U
DE NEGOCIOS DE CUBA EN MADRID.-

N. Ref.:

S/ Ref.:

Ampliando nota núm. 15890 dol dia 13 del corriente, so- tre la llegada a Madrid del Encargado de Negocios de Cuba en España Orestes-Guillermo RUIZ PEPEZ, en sustitución de Francisco CALZADILLA HUREZ, e continuación se incluyen datos referentes a dicho individuo y su señora:

La Sra. RUIZ PEREZ, nació en La Habana el dia 26 de diciembre de 1934, y como ya consta, se llama Nilda VECIANA LO FEZ.

En cuanto al Encargado de Negocios, Orestes-Guillermo RUIZ PEREZ, nació también en La Habana el dia 10 de febrero de 1930.

Se sabe que cetan efectuando gestiones para encontrar vivienda más adecuada a sus necesidades que la que ahora ocupan que, es la que tuvo siompre en nuestra capital el anterior Encargado Cubano.

So acompañan fotografias dol Representante Diplomatico Aludido y su esposa.

![seal]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

Ministerio de is Gobernaciaa

DIRECCION GENERAL
DE SEGURIDAD

COMISARIA GENERAL
DE INVESTIGACION SOCIAL

Madrid, 22 de diciembre de 19 67

Asunto: ORESTES-GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ, ENCARGADI
DE NEGOCIOS DE CUBA EN MADRID.-

N. Ref.:

S Ref.:

Ampliando nota núm. 15890 del dia 13 del corriente, so-
bre la llegada a Madrid del Encargado de Negocios de Cuba en
España Orestes-Guillermo RUIZ PEREZ, en sustitución de Fran-
cisco CALZADILLA NUINEZ, a continuación se incluyen datos re-
ferentes a dicho individuo y su señora:

La Sra. RUIZ PEREZ, nació en La Habana el dia 26 de di-
ciembre de 1934, y como ya consta, se llama Nilda VECIANA LO
PEZ.

En cuanto al encargado de Negocios, Orestes-Guillermo
RUIZ PEREZ, nació también en La Habana el dia 10 de febrero
de 1930.

Se sabe que estan ofectuando gestiones para encontrar vi-
vienda rás adecuada a sus necesidades que le que ahora ocu-
pan que, es la que tuvo siempre en nuestra capital el anterior
Encargado Cubano.

Se acompañan fotografias del Representanto Diplomatico
Aludido y su esposa.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# DISPATCH

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, European Division
Chief of Station, JMCOBRA
Chief of Station, Madrid
Operational/TYPIC/QUDOZE
Conflict Between Guillermo RUIZ Perez and Hector GALLO Portieles

Reference: OSMA-24,050 dated 12 July 1968
Action Required: FYI

1. At the time the referenced dispatch was prepared, the QUDOZE Reports were showing the beginning of a full fledged fight between Guillermo RUIZ Perez, the Charge d'Affaires of the Cuban Embassy in Madrid and his first Secretary, Hector GALLO Portieles. As so often happens in human relations, less important issues proved the vehicle for expressing deeper conflicts and problems. In this case, the primary problem can be simply summarized. The members of RUIZ's staff operate independently of their chief and he feels he is neither consulted nor informed by his subordinates on their activities. This is particularly true in relation to GALLO. The specific issues which sparked their quarrels were RUIZ's dispute with Emilio ROMERO, editor of the newspaper Pueblo, and the distribution of Che GUEVARA's Diary.

2. A QUDOZE Report of 2 July 1968 outlined a hot discussion that ensued when RUIZ went into a rage over a phone call GALLO had received from Emilio ROMERO. RUIZ and ROMERO are not on speaking terms whereas GALLO and ROMERO get along well. GALLO said he feared enmity with ROMERO would bring about the publication of articles unfavorable to Cuba whereas RUIZ replied that when the first unfavorable article comes out, he will take it to the Foreign Minister and settle the matter on that level. He believes that he represents Cuba in Spain and that his continued ....

Distribution:
2 - C/WHD
2 - C/EUR
2 - COS, JMCOBRA
GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification.


CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE 9 August 1968
OSMA-24,112
HQS FILE NUMBER 65-6-44/3.
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

OSMA-24, 112

subordinates should back him by taking the same positions in public that he takes, a not unreasonable demand on the part of a Chief of Mission. RUIZ bluntly told GALLO that he, GALLO, had committed an error and GALLO just as bluntly disagreed. GALLO's view was that RUIZ had come in in a bad humor and nothing pleased him whereas RUIZ felt GALLO should try putting himself in RUIZ's place, something he claims GALLO is incapable of doing. Finally, this particular argument ended in a form of compromise with GALLO agreeing to call ROMERO the following day and remind him that he "should call the Minister".

3. On 4 July the battle was renewed over the distribution of Che's Diary. At that time the Embassy only had 6 or 7 copies which were being loaned out on an overnight basis. RUIZ said he wanted to send the Diary "to a mountain of people" while GALLO was also offering it freely and without consulting RUIZ about the action or his list of recipients. RUIZ scolded him roundly for this and, ignoring GALLO's attempts at self-justification, told him he had to respect the instructions he received. At one point in his tirade, RUIZ even went so far as to suggest it would be better for one of them to leave and go to work in another country, for example Rumania. Several interesting items emerged from this long quarrel:

A. GALLO has some undefined problem which Station Madrid assumes is related to his personality and his approach to his fellow workers. Ruiz said, "Look, GALLO, here everyone knows the problem you have. It is necessary to be hard, because unfortunately all the comrades that have come here through many years, know of the problem..." Ruiz then insisted on the importance of discussing problems among the comrades and said "for example in your case, you have been foolish in not outlining the problem, I was waiting and ESPINO was waiting and PILOTO".

B. RUIZ commented that now he can understand the attitude of CALZADILLA. Before, he had thought CALZADILLA was in error but now he feels the same way. He mentions "an ambivalence" and says he will not react the same way, "that CALZADILLA was wrong in limiting himself to a reduced group of persons whereas I will continue to go forward but with everyone, not just a few."

C. RUIZ takes a broader view of Party membership than his contemporaries. In commenting on the weekly study circle for members of the Party, he set forth his opinion that all the comrades of the local Cuban Mission should participate even though they may not be members because in his eyes it is as if they all really were members.

D. RUIZ repeated a statement he has made on previous occasions - the great interest of his life is foreign commerce. However, in this 4 July QUDOZE Report, he added the interesting detail that he had not wanted to come to Madrid as Charge and, in affect, had been persuaded to come against his will. He believes he is best able to serve in the control of industry and that is where he could perform a tremendous work for his country as every revolutionary


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

CONTINUATION OF

SECRET

OSMA-21, 112

ought to be in the place of work where he is able to do the most. "Until now, I have always done and have always gone where the revolution sent me... with my present limitation of criteria, I should not be here". He repeated his conviction that he is wasting his talents and doing nothing for Cuba in the position of Charge in comparison with what he could do elsewhere. "I believe that with which I am best able to serve my country is in the control of industry... I put myself in an industry and I see if things are being done well or if they are being done badly because I have knowledge and because I arrive at my conclusions through the accounting...look, here I am wasting my présence and my resources when I am able to be useful to production in another position."

By the end of this 4 July report, RUIZ had exhausted all his combativeness and appeared very depressed.

4. RUIZ is due for home leave in Havana the first part of August. There have been indications scattered throughout the QUDOZE and QUTIMID Reports of the last month or two that he might not return. The information given in Paragraph 3-D above seems to make this possibility even more likely and is a developement that Station Madrid will watch closely.

5. The arguments ended inconclusively. Neither man could afford to carry the battle to the ultimate conclusion of an open break. GALLO has tried to make some pro-forma gestures acknowledging RUIZ as head of the Mission and RUIZ will soon be going on home leave. However, the former close association noted upon RUIZ's arrival is gone and they are more distant and cool. GALLO at one point in this same 4 July QUDOZE Report mentioned how he had looked forward to working with RUIZ and QUDOZE had shown an initially close working relationship between them with daily discussions of the problems of the Mission and the events of the day. Now, their relationship is cool, correct and business-like. The personalities of the two men have also come into sharper relief. RUIZ with his quick temper, shouted and used harsh course language and in the end got nowhere; GALLO did not raise his voice, although his language was no improvement over that of his boss, and tried to sound reasonable but never gave in an inch on any of the points over which they quarreled. In the end nothing was resolved except possibly to clear the air of some of the tension between the two men for in a 10 July QUDOZE Report, RUIZ was still complaining about GALLO's friendship with Emilio ROMERO and saying that GALLO only wanted to be out meeting people and not preparing written memos on his work!

Jane D. ASTRAHAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

> [Figure] Portrait of a man.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# SECRET

CARLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES 36 ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

SECRET
(When Filled in)
GROUP I
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DECLASSIFICATION
DECLASSIFIED
1
6
2
7
3
8
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX. YES NO
4
9
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-735246
5
10
BY:
AT:
REF TO FILE NO
FILE RID
RET TO
DISSEM BY
ACTION:
8
PER
RID COPY
INFO
FILE. YR. RILAN WA8 EURG, CI/OPS, CI/1C 2,
WH/COG 8
BRANCH
DESTROY
FI, FI/INT 2 CAS, ADDP
SECRET 090852Z AUG 63 CITE MADRID 5702
9 Aug 68 IN 67286
JMCOBRA INFO DIRECTOR, LA PAZ
TYPIC

REF: JMCOBRA 0490(4635-07)

1. STATION HAS MONITORED ACTIVITIES ORESTES GUILLERMO (RUIZ) PEREZ AND HIS WIFE CLOSELY THROUGH QUDOZE/QUTIMID SINCE COUPLES ARRIVAL MADRID LAST DEC AND CONVINCED REF REPORT BY VECIANA ABSOLUTELY WITHOUT FOUNDATION. RUIZ, FAR FROM BEING DISSATISFIED WITH PEGIME IS CONVINCED SUPPORTER WHO BELIEVES THAT IN SERVING CUBAN REVOLUTION HE IS SERVING BEST INTERESTS OF CUBA. RUIZ INTERESTED IN OUTSIDE WORLD AND IN MAINTAINING DIALOGUE WITH VARYING TYPES OF PEOPLE BUT DOES THIS FROM INTELLECTUAL FOUNDATION WHICH HAS ACCEPTED CASTRO'S INTERPRETATION OF COMMUNISM AS APPLIED TO CUBA. ONLY ELEMENT OF DISSATISFACTION NOTED IS RUIZ FEELING HE IS NOT IN POSITION WHERE CAN BE MOST USEFUL. HE BELIEVES HE IS WASTING HIS TALENTS IN DIPLOMATIC POST AND WOULD LIKE POSITION MORE SUITED TO HIS INTERESTS IN EITHER COMMERCE OR INDUSTRY WHERE CAN

CS COPY
SECRET

201-735246
9 Aug. 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

CARLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSONUMIT NOTIFIED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Flied in)
TOTAL COPES
GROUPI
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
AGC is 331 PH '68
INDEX
CLASSIFY TO FILE 5
AREF TO FILE NO.
OSSEM BY
AT:
RECEIVER
RID/EDI
PER
ACTION
FILE RID REΤ, ΤΟ
BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
INFO
RID COPY
FILE. VR
LLL
ינים

PAGE 2 MADRID 5702 SECRET

SERVE REVOLUTION BETTER. WIFE APPEARS AS NON-FANATIC

BUT ALSO REGIME SUPPORTER AND AS A WOMAN WHO WILL BE

RULED BY HUSBAND IN SUCH MATTERS.

2. DETAILED DISPATCH BASED ON MATERIAL ACCUMULATED

DURING PAST EIGHT MONTHS FOLLOWS SHORTLY

SECRET

BT

BLEL
F

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

FL SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASS MESSAGE

# SECRET

(When Filled in)

REPRODUCTION OF THE COPY PROHIBITED

SECRET 0311322 JUL 68 CITE MADRID 5394

DIRECTOR INFO JACOBRA

TYPIC

ON QUTIMID OF 15 JUNE 63 LIFE OF AMAUTO-1
SAID AMAUTO-1 HAD MADE RESERVATIONS FOR THEIR
DEPARTURE FOR PORIUMEN ON 6 AUGUST TO GO ON
VACATION. SHE COMMENTED THAT POSSIBLY AMAUTO-1

MIGHT NOT WANT TO RETURN TO MADRID.

SECRET

CS COPY

SECRET

![photo description]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# 14-00000

INDEX. YES
NO. 201-349867

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 30

CLASSIFY TO FILE 201-518437
REF. TO FILE
FILE RID REF. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION 15

ADVANCE COPY
UNIT
TIME
BY
INFO
WHICOG 8
RID COPY
FILE, UR, WH 8, EURE, CI, CILOPS, FI

201-249867
201-818437

SECRET 061054Z CITE MADRID 3302

201-795286
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE
6 DEC 37 1008121
TYPIC WATCHLIST
CIT. CURA 201-735296
ISIDORE MALMIERCA PEOLI PP D-67-921; GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ

PP D-67-390; RICARDO ESPINO MARTINEZ PP D-67-627 ARRIVED

MADRID-FROM-HAVA-3 DEC IBERIA FLT-S42

SECRET

![ANL]
![AN KR AB]

MICROFILMED
DEC 29 1967
DOC. MICRO. GER.

201-735296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

SECRET

22 July 1968

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT : Guillermo Orestes RUIZ Ferez (201-735296)
Cuban Charge d'Affaires in Madrid

According to QUDOZE/QUTINID, Subject is suffering from a spinal ailment resulting from a fall be had about 12 years ago. Since then he has had chronic back-aches which were particularly severe during the time that he was in the U.S., ilaiti, and Santo Domingo. His pains have recurred since he arrived in Spain about six months ago. On 3 June he had another severe attack and was treated by the Embassy's Spanish doctor VILLALANDA who prescribed Cortisone. His condition was diagnosed as incurable since it was doubted that the injury to his spice could be corrected by an operation. Subject was further told by his doctor that the condition would worsen to the point where within six to 10 years he would have a defective valk. Subject planned to send the diagnosis and x-rays to ROA in Havana who would pass them to the Cuban specialist MARTINEZ-PAZ for reviewing.

Gloria de Perignat
WH/COG/OPS

SECRET

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

# SECRET

CABLE SEC

SEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL CORES

ACTION

SECRET 181533Z MAR 68 CITE MADRID 4454

DIRECTOR INFO PARIS

KEYWAY PBRUMEN QUIIMID

1. ON 12 MAR 68 AN AMERICAN CITIZEN WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS DAVID JACOBUS WENT TO THE PBRUMEN EMBASSY AND REQUESTED SEE AMAUTO-1 (IDEN). AMAUTO-1 REFUSED HIM UNTIL HE HAD IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AND STATED PURPOSE OF HIS VISIT IN WRITING.

2. JACOBUS SAID HE STAYING AT HOTEL CAPITOL, CALLE JOSE ANTONIO 41. ADDED HE HAD SERIOUS PROBLEMS WITH U.S. GOVT AND BEING PRESSURED FINANCIALLY TO RETURN TO U.S. WHERE HE WOULD BE ARRESTED. REQUESTED AMAUTO-1 SUGGESTIONS FOR RECEIVING AID.

3. IN SUBSEQUENT CONVERSATION WITH OTHER MEMBERS EMB STAFF AMAUTO-1 SAID THERE AN AMERICAN WHO WANTS GO PBRUMEN SAID IF HE WANTS TO GO WHY DOESN'T HE STEAL AIRPLANE OR BOAT.

4. NO OBJECTION PASSING TO LNERGO. PLS PROTECT SENSITIVE SOURCE.

SECRET

![Microfilmed MAY 7 1968 DOC. MICRO. SER. ]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

SECRET

SCCS 061204Z MAR 68 CITE MADRID 4359

DIRECTOR, FRANKFURT INFO JMWAVE

TYPEC MHAFRON QUCAB TECHS

REF: MADRID 4358(1164763)

IDEN - MAGIN (FERRER) TRAVE, DIRECTOR OF SERVICIO TECNICO COMERCIAL DE CONSTRUCCIONES NAVALES ESPANOLAS.

THIS ORG IS SEMI OFFICIAL ASSOCIATION OF 37-SHIP BUILDING FIRMS AND HELPS ARRANGE AND/OR COORDINATE MANY OF CONTRACTS FOR SHIPBUILDING FOR OTHER COUNTRIES.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# SECRET

CHOLE SICHETARIAT D

ADSL. COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION B.D COPY

CLASSI SECRET

TOTAL CO ROUTING AND/OR IM MALS - SEEN BY

GROUP

HEPATRIINCTION OF THIS COMPROMIE

CLARIF TO FILE NO 201-735246

INPO

PILE.

SECRET 0612242 MAR 68 CITE MADRID 4358

DIRECTOR, FRANKFURT INFO JMWAVE

TYPIC CHAPRON QUCAB TECHS

REFS: A. MADRID 4154

B. MADRID 4322

ANFI

ABSTRACT

1. INVESTIGATION BY QUSEELY-1 SHOWS AMA TO-1 DOES FREQUENT REF A IDEN RESTAURANT. MOST MEETINGS RECENTLY HAVE BEEN WITH IDD AND UNDOUBTEDLY CONCERN NEGOTIATIONS FOR CONSTRUCTION 102 SHRIMP 30ATS. THIS SUBJECT OF SPECIAL INTEREST BOTH FROM THE KHVIPER POINT OF VIEW AND ALSO FOR POSSIBILITOY THAT THESE BOATS MIGHT BE CONSTRUCTED FOR USE BY PSRUMEN FOR EXPORT OF THE REVOLUTION.

2. REQUEST FRANKFURT EARLY VISIT FOR FREQUENCY SWEEP AND PREPARATION OF PEPPER MILLS REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION AS DISCUSSED PER MADRID 4322.

3. QUSEELY-I PREPARED PROVIDE NECESSARY ASSISTANCE INSIDE RESTAURANT TO PLACE ARTICLE ON TABLE AT APPROPRIATE TIME. BELIEVES PEPPER MILL IS APPROPRIATE ARTICLE TO USE.

4. FOR ADDL BACKGROUND OF SHIPBUILDING NEGOTIATIONS HQS MAY WISH REVIEW NADRID EMBASSY TELEGRAMS 2633, 16 FEB 55; 2230, 17 JAN 53. NATURALLY OUR INTEREST EXTENDS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

SECRET (When Filled in)

PAGE 2 MADRID 4358 SECRET

BEYOND THIS SUBJECT AS WE HOPE TO COVER MANY CONTACTS OF

AMAUTO-1 AT THIS RESTAURANT.

SECRET

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

# DISPATCH

10

INFO Chief, FE Division
Chief, Western Hemisphere Division
Chief, European Division

FROM Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT Operational/BGBERET/QUDOZE/PBRUMEN C. Comments of Cuban Charge d'Affaires in Madrid on Vietnam

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

A SPAIN MADRID CIT CUBA

1. According to a QUDOZE Report of 17 February, the Cuban Charge d'Affaires in Madrid, Guillermo RUIZ Perez,
   discussing the war in Vietnam with one of his subordinatės and commented that a Chinese general is driving the North American command mad. He added that this Chinese says that they failed the first time and can fail the second time but that in the end the victory will be theirs. He also added that Vietnam had been at war with the Chinese for thousands of years, that the Chinese have a demonic power that is their people.

2. The nature of the QUDOZE Report does not permit further amplification of the above information which, even though fragmentary and obscure, is being forwarded for whatever use Headquarters may wish to make of it. Should any clarifying information appear in future QUDOZE reports, it will be forwarded. It is interesting to note that, although Station traces do not show the information, a previous QUDOZE Report quoted RUIZ as saying he had once been in North Vietnam as a member of a trade mission.

Jane D. ASTARAHAN

Distribution:

2 - C/FE Division

2 - C/WH Division

2 - C/EUR Division

GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic

CS COPY Downgrading and Declassification

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER DATE
OSMA-23,597 1 March 1968

CLASSIFICATION HQS FILE NUMBER
SECRET 65-6-44/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

5. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ PEREZ, GUILLERMO 201-777193
201-735296 GSMA-23549
SEX M OCB ? 23 FF3 68
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
VICE MINISTER OF ECONOMY WAS DISMISSED
RE DEBRIEFING REPORT OF ARTEL PICOT DIAZ
201-777193

UFG W 6803210106

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-735296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

## ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

**PRIOR TO FILING INSTRUCTIONS TO: ACTION BRANCH**

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID. If file no. and title shown are not proper. insert proper tile no. below and forward document to RID/
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation. PROPER FILE NO.

FROM:

RID/CR

3/REG
4-B-09
Z 5998

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

| NO.            | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDE    | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS                             |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------- | ----------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------ |
| 1.  C/C/13     |          | 13 feb 1968   |             |                    | Should cut ask for the original      |
| 2.  Sorula     |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 3.  W/H/C/C/   |          |               | √           | √                  | Hope on this for more vary dicshijon |
| 4.  WH/COC/OPS |          |               | 1/21        |                    | yes                                  |
| 5.  W/COC/RR   |          |               | 23 Jcb      |                    | Has been done                        |
| 6.  w/coc/ops  |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 7.             |          |               | 27 FEB 1968 |                    |                                      |
| 8.  RID/AN     |          |               | 58          | CJ                 |                                      |
| 9.             |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 10.            |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 11.            |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 12.            |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 13.            |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 14.            |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 15.            |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 16. E/TBS      |          |               |             |                    |                                      |
| 17. w/H/C/OPS  |          |               |             |                    |                                      |


> [Figure: Signatures]


|                  | TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | FILE TITLE    | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) |
| ---------------- | ------------- | -------- | ------------- | -------------------------- |
|                  |               | INDEX    |               | 201-735296                 |
| DATE MICROFILMED |               |          | DOCUMENT DATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER            |
|                  |               |          | 9.Feb.68      | OSMA 23513                 |

![Form 610a logo] USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

# DISPATCH

Chief, European Division

INFO Chief, WH Div., COS, JMWAVE

Chief of Station, Madrid
KAPOK/QUDOZE

AMAUTO-I Discussion of Missiles

1. On 10 January 1968, AMAUTO-1, in one of his many daily discussions with his subordinates, reflected on the international position of his country, and among the things he said, we quote the following which may be of possible interest to addressees. Although part of the discussion was not heard because of the emotional inflection of the speaker, we feel that the jist of the discussion is clear and understandable.

"We are demonstrating to the world that Cuba...is favorably disposed to do whatever... (AMAUTO-1 begins to talk against the United States) that when the Americans have to raise the white flag...because the first plane that appears on radar... (AMAUTO-1 is speaking excitedly and it is very difficult to understand each word but it appears that he is talking about the positions of missiles in Cuba), Havana, Las Villas and Camaguey and that with these missiles, we can cover Miami, New York, and all their bases and all of their "mierda"...if the Americans say they are going to sed them (missiles? planes?), we will send them; if they (Americans) say they are going to invade us, the first plane that comes to invade... (AMAUTO-l's subordinate remarked that 15 October 62 marked a point in international politics, when the Yankees ordered the Soviets to withdraw their missiles). .(AMAUTO-1 injected) "they (the Soviets) presented them (the Cubans) with ten bombs".

2. Our reason for reporting this fragmentary information is that AMAUTO-1 might be confirming the presence of offensive missiles in Cuba.

![signature of Howard R. SACODER]

Distribution:
(2/- C/EUR
-CHD
COS/JMWAVE

OSMA-23513

SECRET

9 February 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

# SECRET

SECRET 131132 FEB 63 CITE MADRID 4154
DIRECTOR INFO JACAVE, FRANKFURT
TYPIC MAPSON TECHS

1. STATION INVESTIGATING POSSIBILITY TECHNICAL SURVEILLANCE IN RESTAURANT WHICH AMAUTO-1 HAS IDENTIFIED ON QUDOCE AS HIS FAVORITE RESTAURANT IN MADRID. IDEN RESTAURANT PARTIALLY OWNED BY QUSEELY-1 WHO CASE OFFICER CONVINCED WILL DO ANYTHING ASSIST IN OPERATION. HAVE NOT YET APPROACHED HIM THIS BASIS.

2. STATION INFORMAL CASING RESTAURANT ON 12 FEB FINDS NO VASES OR MOVABLE OBJECTS ON TABLES SUITABLE FOR CONTAINING MICROPHONES. UNDERTABLE INSTALLATION VERY LIKELY UNSUITABLE IN VIEW DIRECTIONAL NOISES FROM OTHER TABLES.

3. STATION INVESTIGATING POSSIBILITY PURCHASE SHALL SLENDER VASES TO CONTAIN ARRANGEMENT TWO OR THREE FLOWERS FOR EACH TABLE AND WOULD REQUEST SUITABLE INSTALLATION BY ARTOPAZ IN AT LEAST TWO VASES OF SMALL MIKE TRANSMITTER, TYPE TO BE DECIDED AFTER DETERMINATION EXACT SIZE VASES.

4. THIS CABLE ONLY FOR PURPOSE ADVISING ADDRESSEE STATIONS FACTS THIS OPERATION WHICH CONSIDERED OF VALUE IN VIEW


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

RIO/MIS

FEB 23 9 29 AM '68

PAGE 2 MADRID 4154 SECRET

QUDOZE HAS DISCLOSED OCCASIONS IN WHICH AMAUTO-1 HAS
CALLED SPANISH CONTACTS TO MEET THEM AT IDEN RESTAURANT
FOR BUSINESS CONVERSATIONS.

SECRET

FORWARDED
RIO/MIS
FEB 23 2 12 PM '68

![chart]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DATE

DISPATCH OR SOLRCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

DISSEMINATED TO

DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ PEREZ, GUILLERMO ORESTES 065-009-007
201-735296 OSMA-23493A01
SEX M 008 ? 02 FEB 68

CIT CUBA

DCC 7
ASSIGNED SPAIN PCS. CUBAN OFFICIAL
REP CHARGE D AFFAIRES. DATE OF ARR
IN SPAIN 03 DEC 67

UFGHMMHFGOSB R 6802160509

FILE IN 201-735296

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

INDEX: YES  NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-735246
REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID  RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

ACTION:
RID COPY
INFO:
FILE: VA, THE FINE, a, CIPPS

SECRET 251759Z JAN 68 CITE MADRID 3978
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE
TYPIC MHGUILE
REF: MADRID 3859 (IN 31987)

ONLY CUBAN MALE WHO TRAVELED US (NEW YORK)

6 JAN WAS ROBERTO CRUZ SEGUNDO. OBTAINED IMMIGRANT
VISA 27 DEC 67. NO STATION TRACES.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CRUSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OF SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTON

8. DATE OF INFO. 8. EVALUATION

9. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RUIZ, GUILLERMO
201-735296
SEX M DOB ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
VICE MINISTER FOREIGN COMMERCE. RUIZ WILL
BE GOING TO SPAIN AS CHARGE D AFFAIRES
019-006-133/03
UNDA-03310
30 OCT 67
P5

UFG

R 6802161385

FILE IN 201-735296

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

# SECRET

INDEX
CLASS: TO FILE NO 001-755246 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE E TOTAL COPIES 55 PRECEDENCE
X-REF TO FILE NO SECRET REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG. PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ACTION WH/LOG F RID COPY ADVANCE COPY UNIT TIME
INFO FILE, JR, CS/DO, WH 8, EUR 8, 11, 11/ops, coll-... WH/106/ 8
FI, FI/INT 2

SECRET 171220Z JAN 68 CITE MADRID 3859 17 JAN 6831987

PRIORITY DIRECTOR, JAVAVE

TYPIC MHGUILE

1. IN QUDOZE REPORT OF 5 JAN 68 AMAUTO-1
   REQUESTED THAT A CABLE BE SENT SAYING THAT THE
   FOLLOWING DAY A COMPANERO (UNIDENTIFIED) CARRYING
   AN ENVELOPE WAS LEAVING FOR MIAMI. PREVIOUSLY IN
   THE CONVERSATION AMAUTO-1 ASKED THE PERSON IF HIS
   PASSPORT WAS READY. HE REPLIED THAT HE NEEDED
   ENTRANCE AND EXIT PERMIT, AND RETURN VISA. COMMENTS
   WERE MADE RE PRICE ROUND TRIP TO MIAMI BEING 600
   DOLLARS SO ASSUME THE PERSON RETURNING TO MADRID.

2. MADRID WILL CHECK QUOTA TRAVEL REPORTS
   THAT DATE AND WITH CONSULATE IN EFFORT IDENTIFY.

SECRET

SECRE

01-735296
17 jaw 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

INDEX YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 24-735346 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE F TOTAL COPIES UI

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION
INFO
38
WH/0068 RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED
UNIT
TIME
BY
FILE, UR, WHICH CHIPS

WAVE
SECRET 302252Z JAN 69 CITE JMWAVE 1081

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC MHGUILE
ANFI
30 JANG9 40434
REFEREENCES MADRID 3859 (3/1999STRACT INDEX

MADRID 3978 (J37739)

NO STATION OR AMOT TRACES ROBERTO CRUZ SEGUNDO.

SECRET

SECRET

201-725296
30 JAN 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

TO: ACTION BRANCH

1. Fill in Sect. 2, on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

J. If file no. 50.EH.168 shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM: RID/AN

PROPER FILE:

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO       | ROOM NO. | DATE        | OFFICER'S INITIALS |     |
| -------- | -------- | ----------- | ------------------ | --- |
| WH/REGC  |          | JAN 30 1968 | WA                 |     |
| WH/RP    |          | JAN 30 1968 |                    |     |
| WH/CI/ST |          |             |                    |     |
| WH/H     |          |             |                    |     |

MICROFILMED
JAN 30 1968
DOC. MICRO. SER.

| RID/FI | FILE TITLE |
| ------ | ---------- |
|        |            |
|        |            |

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) |
| ------------- | -------- | -------------------------- |
|               | X        | 201-735296                 |
|               |          |                            |

DATE MICROFILMED

DOCUMENT DATE

DOCUMENT NUMBER

19 JAN 196 SMA 23415

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING ACTION

MARKED FOR INDEXING

TO:

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

X
NO INDEXING REQUIRED

Chief, European Division
INFO:

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
ONLY QUALIFIED DESK
CAN JUDGE INDEXING
FROM:

Chief of Station, Madrid
MICROFILM
SUBJECT:

Operational/TYPIC/MHSPAWN/QUDOZE/QUTIMID
Plans of New Cuban Ambassador in Madrid on Propaganda Matters

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

References: A. OSMA-23,413 of 19 January 1968

B. OSMA-23,406 of 12 January 1968

MICROFILMED

JAN 30 1963 1. When Guillermo RUIZ Perez, the new Cuban Charge met with the Cuban consuls following his arrival in Spain, the Result was a long meeting at which primary attention was given to administrative matters, trade and propaganda. The subject of propaganda will be dealt with in this dispatch.

2. The Castro regime has always attached great importance to propaganda activities of all kinds and when the new Cuban Charge d'Affaires began to re-organize the work of his subordinates, propaganda matters were not overlooked. According to the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations, the provincial consulates have been receiving four types of propaganda for distribution, two of which were identified. One was the propaganda put out by the organizations created by the Castro regime, for example "The Voice of Vietnam". The other is newspapers. PACHECO, Consul in Sevilla, mentioned Granma, which he claimed many people read, and added that lately he had been receiving Juventude Rebelde.

3. RUIZ's ideas apparently go beyond hand-shaking and the distribution of propaganda. He asked the consuls to make a list of all the institutes and all the scientific centers in their territories including the special positions of these centers and any other relevant information. They are to use these lists to develop a systematic work plan of visiting each one, making friends, trying to obtain scholarships for Cuba, trying to obtain publications and propaganda of every type, free if possible or by subscription

Continued ......

Distribution:

2 - C/WH Division

2 - C/EUR Division

2 - COS, JMWAVE

GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
OSMA-23,415
19 January 1968

CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER
SECRET
200-120-58


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

OSMA-23,415

if necessary. The consuls were told to go with the attitude of "looting".

4. Even while he was laying these responsibilities on his consuls, RUIZ was busy within the Embassy. In discussions with Andres MARTINEZ, a Spanish employee who works on cultural matters and is responsible for publication of the Embassy bulletin, RUIZ mentioned that he is interested in offering Cuban documentaries to Spanish Cine (Movie) Clubs as they now have a large number, "an infinity", of documentaries showing both Cuban technical application and how the people live. RUIZ also asked to see copies of the Embassy bulletin and in the meantime suggested MARTINEZ do a bulletin drawing a parallel between Gibralter and Guantanamo. Finally, according to a QUDOZE report of 11 December 1967, Hector GALLO Portieles had been ordered to prepare a work plan for cultural activity. In this context cultural activity is not limited to art, music and literature but also includes public information media. The Cuban Embassy has already built up a series of press contacts over the past years and the Cuban Revolution seems to draw a ready response in Spanish intellectual circles as evidenced by the Spanish delegates attending the Cultural Congress held in Havana from 4-11 January 1968. An expense-paid trip is always attractive to be sure but the delegates, many of whom were not communists, were also sympathetic to the host. Accordingly, within the limits imposed by the Spanish government, Station Madrid expects an increase in the propaganda and political action activities of the Cuban official establishment.

Jane D. ASTRAHAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN

FROM: RID/CR

PROPER FILE NO.

TO:

|           | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| --------- | -------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ |
| 1.        |          |               |                |                    |
| whl Scyle |          | 1/10          |                | Wai                |
| 2.        |          |               | 1/15           |                    |
| whle/F    |          | fwdliy        |                | O.C.               |
| 3.        |          |               |                |                    |
| Suspe     |          | 22/1          |                | OTR                |
| 4.        |          |               |                |                    |
| wh/cl     |          |               |                |                    |
| 5.        |          |               |                |                    |
| BT        |          |               |                |                    |
| ES        |          |               |                |                    |

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK.. IF APPROPRIATE
COMMENTS

MICROFILMED
JAN 17 1968
DOC. MICRO. BER.

22 JAN 1963

#9--Kapok
Material must be
Retained by Action
...
PID/50
Louise
X6829

AMAUTO-I
Kas file
no

| 17.  |               |          |            |     |
| ---- | ------------- | -------- | ---------- | --- |
| RIDE | TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | FILE TITLE |     |
|      | INDEX         |          |            |     |

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE)
201-735.296

DATE MICROFILMED

DOCUMENT DATE
12 Jan 68

DOCUMENT NUMBER
USMA 23406

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

TO

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

INFO

Chief, European Division
Chief of Station, JUWAVE

FROM

Chief of Station, Madrid

SUBJECT

Operational/TYPIC/MHAPRON/QUTIMID, QUDOZE
Plans of New Cuban Ambassador in Madrid

PROCESSING ACTION

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

MICROFILMED.
JAN 17 1968
DOC. MICRO, OKA.

1. The new Cuban Ambassador to Spain, Orestes
   Guillermo RUIZ Perez arrived in Madrid on the Iberia flight
   of 3 December 1967 accompanied by his wife, Nilda, and three
   sons. CALZADILLA, RUIZ's predecessor had not been a strong
   administrator and had let the various components of the
   Cuban official establishment in Spain run their own affairs.
   This fact plus the inevitable tendency of a new chief to be
   a "new broom" and rearrange things according to his own
   lights, led Station Madrid to expect some changes particularly
   within the Embassy. However, the QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations
   have shown RUIZ at least initially to be an aggressive and
   well organized individual with ideas of his own that clearly
   reflect his background in commercial affairs and prepared to
   make changes that promise to go beyond the superficial
   sweeping of a new broom. Underlying RUIZ's actions and
   proposals is the clear implication that he came to Madrid
   with the specific task of upgrading the Cuban mission in
   Spain both in terms of prestige and effectiveness. Station
   Madrid will transmit to the addressees the relevant
   information on this program as it becomes available from the
   QUDOZE and QUTIMID operations along with information on the
   official Cuban personalities administering the program.

2. A striking difference between RUIZ and his
   predecessor was noted in the QUDOZE and QUTIMID reports of
   that first week. RUIZ has no inhibitions over spending
   money. One of the Embassy cars, a Peugeot was replaced with
   a new model and there was discussion of replacing the other
   two Peugeots with new ones. Nilda, RUIZ's wife, was picked
   up by the wife of GOVIN who turned $200 over to her to go
   shopping at the Corte Inglesa, one of Madrid's two best

Continued .....

Distribution:

2 - C/WH Division

2 - C/EUR Division

2 - COS, JMWAVE

GROUP I
Excluded from Automatic
Downgrading and Declassification

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DATE

D.200-9-44

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

OSMA-23,406

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

12 January 1968
HQS FILE NUMBER
200-120-61


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

OSMA-23,106

known department stores. RUIZ checked with GALLO, his
deputy, on the proper clothes for diplomatic functions in
Madrid and an appointment was to be made with a tailor.
Nilda declared that the apartment where CALZADILLA and his
family had lived economically was inadequate and they
decided to look for a chalet, something very spacious and
well-priced. They subsequently seriously considered one
known to rent for 30,000 pesetas ($500) per month and then
turned it down, apparently for reasons other than price. A
new telex machine was ordered for the Embassy. The technician
stated they could install a teletype that could only receive,
not send, messages but this seemed acceptable.

3. On Monday, 4 December 1967, the day after his arrival,
   RUIZ ordered the Cuban consuls in Barcelona, Sevilla and
   Vigo to Madrid for a meeting. The order was couched in terms
   of "wanting to meet" them, but after their arrival on
   Wednesday, 6 December, all parties settled down to a detailed
   meeting in which primary attention was given to administrative
   matters, trade and propaganda. The latter two subjects will
   be dealt with in separate dispatches. On the administrative
   side, RUIZ listened sympathetically to complaints about low
   salaries, old buildings and inadequate operating budgets and
   concluded by asking for a monthly report on receipts and
   expenses and a report on the consuls' current needs, their
   monthly balances and their administrative activities. The
   printing and telephone bills were the two items of expense
   that kept recurring throughout the discussions.

4. By the end of the week, RUIZ had prepared a report
   on the situation he found in the Chancerry and the mission
   in general for forwarding to Havana and which he first
   discussed with his subordinates. Ile started by assuring
   them that he had "found great co-operation among all the
   comrades in this mission" and declared that the staff was
   complete. Apparently, RUIZ intends to make no personnel
   changes and Hector GALLO Portieles, who had previously been
   most eager to return PCS to Havana, now has gone to Havana
   on vacation. He left Madrid on the 20 December 1967 Iberia
   flight.

5. The Cuban mission has certain financial problems
   since the present budget dates from previous years and does
   not cover current expenses. However, the "new economic.
   activities of the consulate" are expected to assist with the
   problem. Here RUIZ is presumably referring to the pressure
   brought to bear in November 1967 by Cuban sympathizers in
   the Spanish Foreign Office working through the Customs and
   the Immigracion Office to force Cuban exiles to register
   with the Cuban consulate and pay the $22.50 fee for a valid
   passport. Enough exiles have responded to this pressure to
   relieve some of the financial problems of the Cuban mission.
   This source of income will last as long as the Cubans' friends
   in the Foreign Ministry are able to assist them.

6. The reception of Cuban official travelers at the
   airport and the handling of Embassy pouches poses a
   continuing administrative problem for the Embassy. Jose
   DIAZ Puga, who is in charge of this airport work has to
   devote himself exclusively to taking care of the couriers
   and their pouches when any come in, leaving visitors to fend
   for themselves. This situation has been alleviated by
   other. Embassy staff members jaunting out to the airport at
   will to meet the incoming planes. Now, RUIZ has declared
   that the rest of the staff must stay in the Embassy because
   they have a work plan to fulfill. Thus, he has left himself
   with an unresolved problem he must face in the very near
   future.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

OSMA-23,106

7. The new Ambassador concluded his report with three recommendations:

a. Rent another building where the Chancillary, the Commercial Office, the Consulate and the Cubana Offices can all be housed instead of being dispersed in separate buildings as they are now;

b. Rent or preferably buy a residence for the Chief of Mission. The one they now have is not adequate;

c. Send another person from Cuba who has the background to take care of scientific work plus continuing the contacts the Mission will have already made. In view of RUIZ's previous statement on the completeness of the staff, such a person would likely be a "non-official" representative of one of Cuba's cultural fronts such as the Casa de las Américas.

8. RUIZ concluded his remarks by saying that in Spain there is a tremendous field for the Cubans, they have no language problem and they can do a great work. Such is the goal RUIZ has proclaimed and that Station Madrid believes he was sent to attain.

Jane D. ASTRAHAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

INSTRUCTIONS

PRIOR TO FILING

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments-requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/HC

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IP APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO          | ROOM NO. | DATE                    | OFFICER'S INITIALS |             |
| ----------- | -------- | ----------------------- | ------------------ | ----------- |
| 1.  WN/CEGC |          | 18 DEC 1967 18 DEC 1967 | We                 |             |
| 2. W/C/a    |          | 19/12/67                |                    | 21 DEC 1967 |
| 3.  BT      |          |                         |                    |             |
| 4.  ES      |          | 17242/ERS               |                    |             |
| 5.          |          |                         |                    |             |
| 6.          |          |                         |                    |             |
| 7.          |          |                         |                    |             |
| 8.          |          |                         |                    |             |
| 9.          |          |                         |                    |             |
| 10.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 11.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 12.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 13.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 14.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 15.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 16.         |          |                         |                    |             |
| 17. RID/FI  |          |                         |                    |             |


MICROFILMED

DEC 1 8 1967

DOC. MICRO. GER.

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT | FILE TITLE                 |     |
| ------------- | -------- | -------------------------- | --- |
|               | X        | 27 FLO 1963                |     |
|               | X        | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) |     |
| INDEX         |          |                            |     |


DATE MICROFILMED

14 J. 1967

SECRET

DOCUMENT DATE.

701-735296

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UFGA 29123

![Form 610a, previous edition]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

Chief of Station, MADRID

INFO.
Chief, EUR Division; Chief, WH Division

FROM
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT TYPICALOT/Operational
Cuban Embassy Official (fnu) RUIZ

REFERENCES: A. Madrid 3135
B. Madrid 3204

1. JMWAVE traces reveal that (fnu) RUIZ, successor
   to Francisco CALZADILLA Nunez, 201-315988, may be identical with
   Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez, 201-735296. Information pertaining
   to RUIZ Peréz is as follows:

a. In August 1963, RUIZ was appointed Cuban Commercial
Counsellor at Mexico City, and was believed to be a G-2 official
attempting to infiltrate counterrevolutionary groups based in
Mexico. (UFGA-11065, dated 16 September 1963, and UFGA-11445,
dated 23 September 1963.)

b. In 1964 an attempt was made to establish com-
munications with RUIZ through Antonio VECIANA, an uncle of RUIZ'
wife. VECIANA stated that neither he nor members of his family
were in correspondence with RUIZ, and that he was unwilling to act
as a "go-between." (UFGA-19006, dated 21 December 1964.)

c. A Headquarters'"WATCHLIST" card, dated 1 June 1965,
indicates that RUIZ was believed to be assigned to the General
Directorate of Intelligence, Ministry of Interior, in Havana.

2. AMOT traces pertaining to Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez,
   and an evaluation of his new assignment are attached.

Attachment: H/W
ANOT Report EE-8119

Distribution:
COS/ Madrid w/att
C/EUR Div. w/att.
WH/COG w/att.

![microfilmed stamp]

Julian T. PROCARIO

UFGA-29123

SECRET

DEC 14 1967

12 December 1967
201-315983
201-735296


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

# SECRET

ATTACHMENT to UFGA-29123

FROM: SE/REA

AGENT: I-46

VIA: I-1

SUBJECT: Franciso CALZADILLA Nunez (replaced by Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez as Charge d'Affaires of Cuba in Spain

REF: AR-2294, 30 Nov. 1967

1. Francisco CALZADILLA Nunez has not been an attache at the Cuban Embassy in Madrid but rather the head of the Embassy as with his rank of Minister Plenipotentiary no has always acted ad Charge d' Affaires Ad Int. in Spain.

2. Since the end of 1959, after the incident which took place in the CHQ TV station in Havana between Fidel CASTRO and the then Ambassador of Spain to Cuba, Juan Pablo de LOJENDIO, and the subsequent recall of Dr. Jose MIRO Cardona who, at that time, was Cuban Ambassador to Spain, both countries have kept persons with a rank of less than ambassador as the heads of their respective embassies.

3. If Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez is replacing CALZADILLA Nunez, he will do so as Charge d'affaires a.i. If we take into consideration the fact that RUIZ Perez, since August 1963, has been holding positions of confidence in the Cuban Government in the fields of economics and commerce, such as Commercial Counselor in Mexico and Vice-Minister in the Ministry of Foreign Trade, first in administration and afterwards in economy, it can be presumed that he has complete knowledge of the commercial policies of the Cuban Government.

4. From the above, it is believed that the designation of RUIZ Perez to be in charge of the Cuban Embassy in Spain means that the Cuban Government is anxious to intensify even more its commercial exchange with Spain and for this reason is sending as its top re-

![image of document control stamps]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

SECRET

-2-

FE-8119, 5 Doc. 1967

SUBJECT: Francisco CALZADILLA's replacement in Spain (cont.)

prosentative in Spain a specialist in international cermerco. As such, he can not only fertilize the ground for the above purpose but also tako a principal part in the conversations which at this time are always held by commercial delegations of both countries, with a view to commercial trade between the two countries.

5. Following are the file traces we have on RUIZ Pérez:

Orestes Guillermo RUIZ Perez: E-2131, Information about him, I-21, 30 Oct. 1904.

FE-2251, Information about him and file traces, 1-31, 17 Nov. 1964.

Commercial Counselor at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico in Nov. 1963. Address: Francisco Marquez lio. 160 (Colonia Condesa), Mexico, D.F. (Source: Cusan Diplomatic and Consular Missions Abroad, 25 Feb. 65.

EE-43142, List of Ministers and Viceministers of the Cuban Govt., 26 Oct. 1965, page 1.

Vice-Finister of the IECEX. One of the head persons presont at a meeting held by the workers of the MINCEX on 3 Feb. 1966 to express their solidarity with the statements made by the Prime Minister in reply to the Rod Chinese Government. (Source: El Hundo and Granma, 9 Fob. 1966.)

Member of the Cuban Delegation at the second session of the Bulgarian-Cuban Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific-Technical Collaboration, held on 17 iob. 1966 in Havana. (Source: El Lundo, 18 Feb. 1966.)

EE-5349, Study on the structure of the Cuban Govt., I-31, 13 June 1966.

Vico-Minister of Political Economy of the MINCEX. Supporter of the regime. Born in 1928 approx. white. About 5'5" tall, weighing a bout 130 pounds. Blond hair and blue eyes. Barried. Lived in Havana Hun. Dist. and Provinco. (Source: Debriefing of Denilo PIEDRA Hur:pierre, I-42, 27 Dec. 1966.)

Orestes RUIZ Perez: CC-666, Travel fiavana-Mexico.

Travelled Havana-Mexico on 21 May 1964. PP. 63487. (Source: CCA passenger manifest.)

Cuillemmo Orestes RIZ Perez: Cuban, 142 years of age. Came to take the place of Enrique VEGA Perez, fomer attache at the Cuban -bassyin Mexico. PP-D-63/437 diplomatic. Arrived in Mexico on 29 lov. 1963. (Source: Passenger manifests.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

SECRET

-3-

SUBJECT: CALZADILLA'S replacement (cont.) FE-0119, 5 Doc. 67

Guillermo RUIZ Poroz: "Financial Director of Economy of the Ministry of Finance. (Source: Hoy, 12 Dec. 1962.)

Vice-Minister of MINCIX. One of the leading persons present at an event to give prizes to 154 cane cutters of the different enterprises of MINCEX who worked during the Fifth People's Harvest. (Source: Hoy, 1 Aug. 1965.)

HE-4471, Information about Ramon DOMEST VEZ Dominguez, E-15, 17 Nov. 65.

One of the leading persons who took part in an event held at the National Association of Lawyers of Havana on 23 March 1966. (Source: Granma, and El Mundo, 24 March 1966.)

Guillermo RUIZ: Head of the office of the economic group of Finance Ministry. Communist. -2. (Source: Jose PAZ Novas, 17 Jan. 1961.)

Militiaman. Active Communist. Head of the Department of Study and Expenses of the Constitution of the Finance Ministry. (Source: AA-365, 10 Aug. 1962.)

Vice-Ministry of HINCEX. Attended the signing of a commercial treaty between Cuba and Bulgaria for the period 1965-1970. (Source: Bohemia, 4 Sept. 1954.)

Attended a dinner given by the MINCEX in honor of its vanguard workers in the city of Havana. (Source: Revolucion, 13 Mar. 1965.)

Vice-Minister in charge of administration of the MINCEX. Member of the Preparatory Committee for the Fourth World Festival. (Source: Radio Progreso, 15 Mar. 1965.)

Attended the graduation exercises of a school of the HDCIX. (Source: Revolucion, 21 Copt. 1965.)

Vice-Ministry of Economy of the MINCEX. Attended a meeting of workers of the ministry. (Source: Granma, 9 Feb. 1966.)

Vice Minister of Foreign Trade. Received officials from Bulgaria when they arrived in Havana by plane. (Source: Granma, 11 Feb. 1966)

Member of the Cuban delegation which took part in the second session of the Bulgarian-Cuban Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific-Technical Collaboration held in Havana. (Source: Granma, 18 Feb. 1966.)

Member of the Cuban delegation that began conversations today with the Bulgarian Minister in Havana, with a view to the signing of the Protocol of Collaboration between the two countries. (Source: Radio Progreso, 18 Feb. 1966.)

Was present when Lachezar AVRANOV, minister and member of the secretariat of the CC of the PC of Bulgaria, visited President DORTICOS. (Source: Granma, 20 Feb. 1966.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

SECRET

EE-8119, 5 Deo. 67

SUBJECT: CALIADILLA's replacement (cont.)

Arrived today in Santi de Culas with the group which included the Minister and Secretary of the CC of the PC of Bulgaria. (Source: Granma, 20 Feb. 1965.)

Present at the affair held at the MINCEX on 27 May 1965 to began a course on combative preparation. (Source: El Mundo, 23 May 1966.)

Presided over the general assembly of the workers of the MINCEX held yesterday afternoon. (Source: Granma, 12 July 1965.)

Received the Minister of MINEX, Dr. Marcelo FERNANDEZ Font, when the latter returned from the USSR, where he was a member of the Cuban delegation to the celebration of the 49th anniversary of the Russian Revolution. (Source: El Mundo, 18 Nov. 1966.)

Went to the Jose Marti Airport to receive the Bulgarian Vice-Minister of Foreign Trade. (Source: El Mundo, 7 Dec. 1966.)

Vice-Minister of Economy of the MINCEX and president of the Cuban delegation which took part in the signing of the commercial protocol for 1967 between Cuba and Poland. Went to the airport to receive Marian Dmochowski, Vice Minister of Foreign Trade of Poland. (Source: Granma, 8 Jan 1967.)

He signed the commercial treaty between Cuba and Poland for the Cuban Government. (Source: Radio Progreso, 14 Jan. 1967)

Vice-Minister of Foreign Trade. Signed a commercial treaty for 1967 between Cuba and Poland. (Source: Granma, 14 Jan. 1967.)

At the airport to receive the Cuban delegation headed by Marcelo FERNANDEZ which was returning from Moscow. (Source: Granma, 3 Feb. 67.)

Member of the G-2. Works at the MINCEX. (Source: I-91, 24 Apr. 1967.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

UNCLASSIFIED

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
DISPATCH

FROM
WH/COG/CICS/E.Scoggin

EXTENSION NO. OSWM - 10827

DATE R-9008 12 December 1967

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                   | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whome. Draw a line across column after each comment) |
| ----------------- | ------------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. AC/WH/COG/CICS | 12/12         |           | SOR                |                                                                                                         |
| 2.                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3. WH/COG/MO      |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5. C/WHD          | 14 Dec 67     |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7. EUR/CUBA       | 15 Dec        |           | S                  |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 9. C/E/IB         |               |           | √                  |                                                                                                         |
| 10.               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11. RID/D&P       |               |           | 24                 |                                                                                                         |
| 12. RIDYN         |               |           | MAS                |                                                                                                         |
| 13. DIS           |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14. WH/Reg/CICS   |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                         |

![file]

![201-735296]

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Madrid

SECRET

Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Chief, Western Hemisphere Division VIA:C/EUR

TYPIC MNGUILE/Operational

Ambassador Guillermo RUIZ Perez (201-735296)

For Your Information

1. The earliest information in the file of Guillermo RUIZ Perez, born 1931, is that he was in exile in Mexico during the BATISTA regime. In April 1962, he was described by a refugee who was a former co-worker as a militiawan and a militant communist who was Chief of the Department of Construction Expenses Studies, Office of Financial Statistics, Ministry of Treasury. RUIZ arrived in Mexico City in August 1963 as Commercial Counsellor. Shortly thereafter, AMTIKI/1, a reliable JMWAVE asset, stated he had received a letter from a friend inCuba who stated that RUIZ was a "G-2" member sent to Mexico to infiltrate counter-revolutionary groups. In January 1964, LITAMIL/9, a reliable Mexico Station asset, reported that RUIZ of the commercial office was emerging as a fanatical Fidelista.

2. In April 1964, the AMOTS contacted several members of the VECIANA family (relatives of Nilda VECIANA Lopez, wife of Guillermo RUIZ) who live in Miami to see if any one of them would be willing to contact RUIZ for purposes of recruitment.

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - COS, Madrid

1 - COS, JMWAVE

C-O-N-T-I-N-U-E-D

OSMW - 10827

SECRET

19 DEC 1967

201-735296

WH/COG/CICS E.Scoggin:mot

R-9008

12 December 1967

Distribution:

1 - RID

1 - WH/REG/C

1 - WH/COG/CICS

1 - WH/COG/NO

1 - C/WH/COG

1 - E/IB/S

AC/WH/COG/CICS

WH/COG/NO

C/WH/COG

C/WHD

EUR/CURA

C/E/IB

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

OSHW-10827

The VECIANA family members stated they do not correspond with Nilda, were not willing to contact RUIZ, and did not believe he would cooperate. They stated that RUIZ's father was an old guard communist and his brother (first name not given) was a member of the Department of State Security (DSE, the Cuban internal intelligence agency) in Havana. In May 1964, AMHUG/1 stated that Guillerco RUIZ was one of the DGI officials stationed in Mexico and that he was "case officer for intelligence operations targetted against some nearby area."

3. RUIZ was appointed Vice Minister for Economics of the Ministry of Foreign Trade in August 1964, and it is assumed ho held that position until appointed Cuban Ambassador to Spain.

NORREN D. METTENET

HOWARD G. DOBBS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-735216

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 30

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION:

INFO:

WH RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED

FILE: 12-EULSAN/1, CLOGS FI

SECRET

DIRECTOR INFO UMWAVE

TYPIC

REF A MADRID 3256 (04620)

B MADRID 3204

SUBJECT REF A IS COUSIN OF CUBAN CHARGE-DESIGNATE

CUILLERMO (RUIZ) PEREZ WHC EXPECTED ARRIVE MADRID WEEKEND

2-3 DECEMBER. STATION ANXIOUS MAKE DIRECT CONTACT WITH

SUBJECT REF TO TAKE ADVANTAGE POTENTIAL ACCESS TO NEW CHARGE.

SECRET

SECRET

201-735296
2 DEC 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE B

TOTAL COPIES

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFI

ACTION

ADVANCE COPY

RID COPY

INFO

FILE R WITH EDP CI circles FI c/file

SECRET 2109252 CITE MADRID 3135

DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE:

TYPIC

REF: MADRID 2945 (~ 83682)

1. FRANCISCO CALZADILLA AND FAMILY LEFT SPAIN FOR HABANA IBERIA 941 ON 18 NOV. SOTO ON SAME FLIGHT.

2. QUAKE-1 REPORTS CALZADILLA TO BE REPLACED BY RUIZ (FNU), FORMER VICE MINISTER FOREIGN COMMERCE.

POSSIBLY IDEN ORESTES GUILLERMO RUIZ PEREZ, VICE MINISTER OF ADMIN OF MINISTRY FOREIGN COMMERCE.

SECRET SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

REPRODUCTION THIS COPY PROHIBITED

PERSON NOTIFIED

![stamp]

ACTION: C/WH/COG 5 RID COPY

FILE, NR: C/F1/04, C/RI/SD

ACTION CHANGE

---

**MADRID 3303** (STATION & NUMBER) IN **06970 A** (IN NUMBER)

C/S COMMENT: THE ACTION RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS CABLE HAS BEEN TRANSFERRED

FROM: F/O (DIVISION)

TO: WA/COG (DIVISION)

BY: T. ROBERTSON/F/O/X-6974 (NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

IN COORDINATION WITH: B. MURRY/WH/COG/X-5061 (NAME, DIVISION, AND EXTENSION)

SECRET

![handwritten text: Ref. Cable attached ch. Tromafu to CICS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

SECRET

ACTION

☑ INFO COPY

FILE, VR, DOP, S/FI, ClEURS, C/F/ES, cluir 2, clalsa

SECRET 0610542 CIIE MADRID 3303

DIRECTOR INFO PARIS, JMWAVE, MEXICO CITY

RYBAT TYLOTE PERUYEN WATCHLIST

1. IN 4 DECEMBER TELEX GUILLERMO (RUIZ) PEREZ
   (WATCHLIST 552) ASKED EMBACUBA PARIS TO INFORM JOSE
   ANTONIO (GARCIA) LARA (WATCHLIST 227) IN CONGO (BRAZZAVILLE)
   THAT RUIZ IN SPAIN AS CUBAN CHARGE D'AFFAIRES.

2. INDEX RUIZ AND GARCIA

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

SECRET 050821Z CITE MADRID 3287
DIRECTOR INFO JMWAVE

TYPIC

REF: MADRID 3204 (IN 01996)

1. GUILLERMO (RUIZ) PEREZ, PP D-67-892, NEW CUBAN
   CHARGE, ARRIVED MADRID 3 DECEMBER WITH WIFE, NILDA (VECIANA)
   LOPEZ, PP-D-891, AND THREE SONS, GUILLERMO, ALEJANDRO AND
   JULIO.

2. REQUEST 201 NUMBER AND CRYPT FOR RUIZ.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

E.C.PAYNE:mot
WH/COG/CICS
R-9008
6 DEC 67

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 3

SECRET

NO INDEE DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE BID
NO INDEE FILE IN CL FILE NO. 201-735296

INFO FILE WR AIRF, EURF/s/s.

SECRET

7 13 4252
CITE DIRECTOR 57644

MADRID INFO: JMWAVE

TYPIC

REFS: A. MADRID 3204 (IN 01996)**

B. MADRID 3287 (IN 05962)**

C. MADRID 3257 (IN 04629)***

SUBJ REFS A AND B IS AMAUTO/1 (201-735296). TRACES FOLLOW BY
DISPATCH. IF STATION AND QUWEB ASSESSMENT CARDOSO FAVORABLE, CONCUR
PLAN MAKE DIRECT CONTACT WITH HIM FOR POTENTIAL ACCESS AMAUTO/1.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/Comment: *Ref A requested traces on Subj refs A and B.

**Ref B requested 201 number and crypt for Subj refs A
and B.

***Ref C stated station considering contact CARDOSO,
a recent Cuban refugee Madrid and cousin of AMAUTO/1,
for future access to AMAUTO/1.

AC/WH/COG CICS

WH/COG/MO

C/WH/COG

EUR/CUDA

C/EUR/SN

SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

COPY NO.
201-735296
6 DEC 1967


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)