# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO 93-3053154

SECRET

PAGE: 1

FRP?

STAFF

CONF: CETF/W/BLO INFO: C/ORMS, CEDORECORD, LIMITO, MDSX, ODPD, FILE,
C/CE-3, C/CETF, CETF/W-2 (8/P)

93 3053154 ASO PAGE 001
TOT: 020005Z JUL 93 DIRECTOR 167476

SECRET 020005Z DIRECTOR 167476

STAFF

TO: IMMEDIATE MINSK.

FROM: LIMIT CETF/W/BLO INFO C/CETF/W, C/CETF, CHIEF/CE

SLUGS: WNINTEL HGDHARMA JYVAPOROUS

SUBJECT: OFFICIAL VISIT OF JYVAPOROUS/1 TO HQS

REF: DIRECTOR 165808 (93 3038825)

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: PLEASE PROVIDE COS COMMENTS REGARDING
   PROPOSED TOPICS FOR DISCUSSION DURING JYVAPOROUS/1 VISIT TO HQS;
   PLEASE ADVISE REGARDING JYVAPOROUS/1'S AVAILABILITY FOR
   LUNCH/DINNER WITH CHIEF/CE DURING VISIT.

2. FURTHER TO REF, AS ARRANGEMENTS ARE BEING FIRMED UP
   FOR VISIT OF JYVAPOROUS/1~(V/1)-TO-HQS-CIRCA_22 JULY, WE WOULD
   LIKE TO OFFER THE FOLLOWING ADDITIONAL THOUGHTS REGARDING TOPICS
   OF DISCUSSION TO BE RAISED BY EITHER C/PNINFINITE OR CHIEF/CE
   DURING THEIR UPCOMING MEETINGS WITH V/1:

* <--LEE HARVEY OSWALD>FILES. DURING PREVIOUS MEETINGS WITH
  V/1. HE HAD OFFERED TO PROVIDE SUMMARIES OF GYVAPOROUS FILES ON
  *<LEE HARVEY OSWALD>AND ALSO ALLOW "EXPERTS" TO EXAMINE DOCUMENTS
  WITHIN THESE FILES IN ORDER TO CONFIRM THEIR AUTHENTICITY. WHILE
  WE REALIZE THAT RESPONSIBILITY FOR THESE FILES HAS BEEN TURNED
  OVER TO NVTAG FOR ACTION, WE BELIEVE IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE FOR
  THIS TOPIC TO BE RAISED AT THIS JUNCTURE, GIVEN THE LACK OF
  ACTIVITY WE HAVE SEEN ON THIS SCORE--

--PRESENCE OF IRAQI AND POSSIBLY IRANIAN MILITARY OFFICERS
IN BELARUS. DURING A 16 OCTOBER 1992 MEETING WITH DC/CETF/W, V/1
PROPOSED OPERATIONAL COOPERATION TARGETING THE CIRCA 100 FOREIGN
MILITARY OFFICERS PRESENT IN BELARUS. OF THIS PRESENCE, V/1
MENTIONED SPECIFICALLY IRAQI AND ETHIOPIAN OFFICERS AND LEFT SOME
QUESTIONS REGARDING A POSSIBLE IRANIAN PRESENCE. V/1 INVITED
PNINFINITE TO CONSIDER RECRUITMENT OPERATIONS, OFFERING
JYVAPOROUS FILES AND OTHER SUPPORT RESOURCES. WE BELIEVE A
POTENTIAL JYVAPOROUS/PNINFINITE-JOINT-OPERATION-TARGET-I-NG-IRAQI-
OR IRANIAN MILITARY OFFICERS IN BELARUS POSES SOME EXCITING
POSSIBILITIES_FOR_THIS_LIAISON RELATIONSHIP.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 93-3053154 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 2

3. GIVEN V/1'S INITIAL INSISTENCE THAT HE MEET ONLY WITH C/PNINFINITE DURING THIS VISIT, WE WOULD APPRECIATE.COS'S FEEDBACK REGARDING REF PROPOSALS TO ALSO SCHEDULE A MEETING WITH CHIEF/CE. FURTHERMORE, CHIEF/CE WOULD IDEALLY LIKE TO ARRANGE A LUNCHEON/DINNER WITH V/1 DURING, THIS VISIT. WE HAVE TENTATIVELY BLOCKED OUT TIME FOR A LUNCHEON BETWEEN V/1 AND CHIEF/CE ON 22 JULY AND REQUEST COS EXTEND CHIEF/CE'S INVITATION, STRESSING HOW MUCH CHIEF/CE WOULD LIKE TO RETURN THE HOSPITALITY DISPLAYED TO HIM DURING HIS MAY 1992 VISIT TO MINSK.

4. FILE: 227-002-001. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>
   ORIG:GETF/W/ULO-(-BOMBERGER, 72506); AUTH: DC/CETF-/-W-/-BLO-(RACHKO); INFO: CHIEF/CE(); REL: C/CETF/W (NORVILLE). CL BY 2077887

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)