# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

7 January 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS)

SUBJECT: RFE in Turkey

ACTION NECESSARY: Will you please decide or cause to be decided the following question: Should the National Committee for a Free Europe in its approach to Turkish authorities exploring the possibility of creating an RFE station in Turkey contact Turkish authorities as a non-governmental private Committee or as a CIA-financed institution?

Background

1.  The State Department has asked that RFE not approach Turkish authorities until VOA's attempt to get into Turkey has been accepted or refused by the Turks. The Department has now given the Voice of America until 15 January to conclude its negotiations with the Turkish Government. These negotiations appear to be leading nowhere and, on the assumption that VOA will not gain entrance to Turkey, the Department has authorized RFE to begin negotiations on the above date.

2.  Bob Lang, Bili Durken and Mr. Wadsworth, former Ambassador to Turkey, as well as the NE Division have all beer in on discussions as to how NCFE should approach the Turks. Mr. Wadsworth counsels that all cards be laid on the table, and he bases his reasoning on his belief that the Turks will now about it anyhow and that RFE is likely to get further if it comes clean. The NE Division on the other hand hopes that the approach can be that of a private committee and that no mention need be made of CIA's interest.

3.  Your advice on the above question will not constitute approval of the building of a Turkish station or of operations from Turkey. By PRC decision at the last hearing on NCPE's budget these questions in Turkey must be brought back here for approval if the attitude of the Turks is favorable.

Thomas Braken

THOMAS W. BRADEN
Chief
International Organizations Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: MR FUOMEN/RGHORS CHILE

INCLUSIVE DATES: SEPT. 1973- MAY 1974

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAI |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |
|               |               |                          |                                 |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

C
Quastars components

C/LA/ANIC

C/IP/DMS

:(Station/Base)

Santiago, Chile

COMPLETE FROM 1 THROUGH 2.

SUBJECT AND PROJECT FHS REQUEST
AND FIELD NONFICAMON OF ACTION

FROM (Division)

C/LA

HIFORMATION FOR REQUESTERS

BLM 3-ALL FILE TITLES MUST BE STOPILE SINTHEY WILL
APPEAR ON THE FIELD COMES AND ON MACHINE LISTS.

TEA G-ALL REMARKS MUST BE STOPILE

ITEM 7 AND 8-USC. FIRST THREE EDEELRS OF DEPAICH SYM
BOLS FOR FILED STATIONS AND ELT DOUAPILIRS CLE-
MENIS ACCORDING TO ESTABLISHED NUMEPIC COOLS

ITEM 10-ENTER OLD TITLE WHEN AMENDING A TITLE LI
ANY FILES, SUCH AS 2014 PROTECT FILES THAT ARE
LATED 10 THE FILE COVERED BY HOSPROBEST REM 100
ALSO DE USED TO GET REMONS FOR IPL ACTION GUNG
QUESTED, TO JOENTIFY HHE TYPE OF MATURAL TO BE HALO
IN A FILE ON TO MAKE OTHER EXPLANATORY REMARAS.

ITEM 11-A RECORDS OFFICER MUST SIGNALLELE 0110
QUESTS. CONSULT YOUR RMOON ANY PROBLEMS 114 A


# HIFOKLATION CONCERNING FILE

1. TYPE OF FILE
2. CODE (FILE) NUMBER

**X** SUBJECT
PROJECT
COUNTRY NUMBLR
CATEGORY NUMUIR
SPECIFIC SUBJECT NO

015
124
052

3. FILE TITLE (SIECIFIC SUBJECT PROJECTS LIMITED 10 15 SPACES)

FUOMEN

# ACTION REQUIRED

4. ANALYSIS ACTION
5. DISPOSITIさん
   OPEN FILE
   CLOSE FILE FIDICATE DEPOSITION
   REOSCH
   RETAIN
   DESTRUCTION NECOMES
   אוRU DATED

C. REIMARKS FOR FIELD DESTRIBUTIONT

7. INTERESTED STATIONS (PROJECTS ONLY)
8. INTERESTED HEADQUARTERS DESK ILIST ACTION DION FINS

HCS
015

# FILES ACTION

HOLD IN
CS FILES
RESTRICTED
**X** UNRESTRICTED
PREPARE FOLDER AND
SEND TO REQUESTER
CHARGE PERMANENTLY
FOFFICER & DESN

10. COMMENTS INCLUDE SPECIAL HEADQUARTERS ROUTING INSTRUCTIONS)

11. ENDORSEMENT
12. COORDINATION
    SIGNATURE OF BRANCH DISK R. O.

DIGNATURE OF BRANCH/CESK R. O.
WHEN APPLICABLE)
11748
L-CARN
LFIECTIVE DATE

13. RID APPROVAL

REQUEST APPROVED BY

CODE FILE NUMBER

SECRET
38
1-CS.CO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CABLE SEC DISSEM
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANGE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

ACTION

SECRET

STAFF

T 375103 EIA916 PAGE 01-21
TOR:12816282 AUG 74

SECRET 281611Z AUG 74 STAFF

CITE HAMBURG 25462

TO: DIRECTOR INFO BONN, BONN BASE.

MHCRUNCH FUOMEN REDLEG

REF: EGGA-6103, 12 AUG 74

1. ARTICLE BY PROF. JAMES THEBERGE, PUBLISHED IN
   SOVIET ANALYST, VOL. 3, NO. 17, 15 AUG. ENTITLED: "KREMLIN'S
   HAND IN ALLENDE'S CHILE" IS IDEAL FOR PURPOSES OUTLINED IN REF.
   WE ATTEMPTING TO PLACE. WILL ADVISE. SUGGEST HO INCLUDE ARTICLE
   IN PRESS COMMENTS.

2. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

TRANSMITTAL MANIFEST

TO
Chief, EUR Division
FROM
COS, Helsinki
No. 669923

| ITEM NO. | DESCRIPTION       | REMARKS                    |
| -------- | ----------------- | -------------------------- |
|          | Newspaper article | FUOMEN/PSYCH Ref: HELSINKI |
|          | Hold for Record   | 22455                      |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |
|          |                   |                            |

SECRET

E2 IMPDET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# KULTUR 3

## Allendes misstag

Den svenska debatten är ensidig. Man hör är på ett lysande sätt dokumenterat juntans grymheter men man drar ingen lärdom av utvecklingen i Allendes Chile. Det är viktigt att kunna kritisera det som var fel i utvecklingen, annars kan man inte lära sig någonting. Om man tystar ner varje form ay debatt om det som var före kuppen, använder man sig av ett censurtänkande som är på samma linje som juntans.., säger Andres Aung, journalist och författare som besökt Chile före, under och efter Allendes tid. Han har nu också givit ut en debatthok, Att så socialism och skörda fascism.

* Salvador Allenle och "folkregeringen" Umdad Popular (folklig enhet) emotsägs med stort intresse även utomlands. Man skulle äntligen få svar på flera grundlaggande fragen. Kan socialismen geneuntevas på fredlig väg i Latinamerika? Ar marxismen i praktiken fovenlig med politisk demokrati? Kan en vivial revolution genomföras med bevarad politisk demokrati?

* Folktrontem program hade fyra naturtillgångar, framst kopparn, 2) okad taht i jordreformsarbetet, 3) förstatligande av de största bank- och industuforetagen (ch 4) subh chonomisk tillväst och omfordel-ning av inkomster och förmögenheter samt kamp mot inflationen.

## Koppar viktig

*   Kopparn svarar för upp till fyra fenitedelar av landets export och mellan ca femtedel och en tredjedel av Matsintakterna. Unter aren fire första världskriget gick gruvorna över i nordamerikansk ago, I slutet av 1900-talet nationaliserades de till halften av den kristdemokratiska Frei-regimen. Staten overtog 51 procent av akterna. Men Freis "chilenisering av kaupparn visade sig slutligen anda mesa lönsam för de amerikamka foretagen. Kopparn forstatligades genom ett tillägg till grundlagen 1971. Frágan om ersättning till de forna amerikanska byarna hansköts till hogste statsrevi-men Allemle och hans regering ansåg att de inte hade råd att betala kontant ersättning i dollar.
*   Jordbruket avarar for mindre än en fjärdedel av sysselsättningen, vilket är mindre an i de flesta latinamerikamka och andra u-länder. Flera perdretormfagar antogs fore Allenale ena enav dem 1967 då mạn bestande att alla jordegendomar over 80 "hashektar Aunde tvång-sintonas, ten hashektar en hektar forstklassig kunstbevattnad jord).

Takten i podreformarbetet blade under Allendes presidenttid. Under hans firsta är tvångsinlöstes nastan lika mycket joud son under hela den föregående sexáriga presidentperioden. Alla stora jordegen, domar uppgas ha fostatligats 1973.

En foljd av jordreformen var att lantarbetarna organiserades fackligt. En annan var pordoshupatioтла. De okale ne ganger redan under Allendes forsta år jamfört med under Freis tid. Jordagarna började gå till molangrepp.

Produktionen sjink de exproprierade gårdarna hak inte tillräckligt med maskiner, redskap. Areatur och utsade. Den sjunkande tillgangen på livsmedel wh den stigande efterfrågan kekle till for-srjningsproblem och prisstegringar.

I harjun genomforde Aliende en rad atgärder te att skape en jamnare fondeining av formogenhe-av

![Portrait of President Allende]

Andres Küng, journalist och författare, säger att Chile-debatten är ensidig. "Det är tiktigt att även kunna kritisera det som var fel på Allendes tid annars kan man inte lara sig någonting".

Svarta borsaffärer och hamstring. Penningvärdet sjönk med 10.3 procent.

Under inin vistelse i Santiago i birjan av 1973 var enbart cigarrett-koerna i centrum ett par Avarter langa, berallar Andres King.

## Förlorade stödet

*   De ekonomiska problemen medförde politiska problem. Allende forlorade medell lassens stöd och arbetareklassens stöd minskade. I kongresswalen behovde han.mapri-var en nodvaindig forutsattning för att han skulle. Kunna fortsätta att genomfora sitt program och stifta sina lagat. Han fick bara 44 procent. Maktkampen kongress-parlament president fortsatte. Ingen ville ge vika for den andre. Allende drevs till åtgärder som inte var forenliga med demokratiska principer och gällande lager.
*   Denna utveckling tyder på att varje fonok att mot flertalets vilja tvinga fram en extrem politik medior fisker för poterisering av samhallet som bara skulle gyana ondemokratiska riktningar. En aggressiv klavspolitik, vare sig den ar reaktionar eller. revolutionar, kan framkalla en utveckling mot en walistisk eller fascistisk diktatur, Konstaterar Andres Küng.

Men inga misslewhållanden och misstag under Allendes tid kan anvandas soin ursäkt for Luppen och det blodhal som sedan folle. Man kan ha olika uppfattningar om Allendes politik, men varje sann demokrat maste kanna avsky för den nuvarande militarjuntan.

## Flitig författare

Andres Kung är fodd i Gavle


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONFIDENTIAL

STAFF

PAGE 01

TOR1021103Z MAY 74

TN 239973
HELS 22455

ALREADY KNOWN TO ADDEES, CAUL ATTENTION TO NERLY PUBLISHED BUDK ON CHILE BY SWEDISH JOURNALIST/

ACCORDING TO : MAY 74 REVIEW IN FINNISH SWEDISH LANGUAGE CALLSTADSBLADET", KUNG WHO VISITED CHILE BEFORE. DURING AND AFTER ALLENDE'S TIME--LABELS THE SWEDISH DEBATE ON CHILE AS MONE-SIDED AND ANALYSES IN DETAIL ALLENCE'S ECONOMIC POLICIES AND THE INCREASINGLY CRITICAL ECONOMIC PROBLEMS UNDER ALLENUE'S THREE YEARS, AND THE CONCOMITANT POLITICAL PROBLEMS THAT LED ALLENCE TO MEASURES WHICH WERE "INCOMPATIBLE WITH DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES AND EXISTING LANG".

KUMS VOTES THAT MAGGRESSIVE CLASS POLITICS, WHETHER REACTIONARY OR REVOLUTIONARY, CAN BRING ABOUT A MOVE AGAINST A SOCIALIS7 OR FASCIST DICTATURE" BUT. HE ADDS, "NO CONDITION OR MISTAKE DURING ALLENDE'S TIME CAN BE USED AS EXCUSE FOR THE COUP

CUNFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CONFIDENTIAL

STAFF

24 OCTOBER/REFERENTSK

* 27741 ETA230 PAGE 82-82 IH 289873
* TOR182211032 MAY 74 HELS 22433

AND THE *BLOODBATH* THAT FOLLOWED".

2. MUNG (DP0B: 1945, GAVLE, SWEDEN) IS FORMER (1969-72)

EDITOR FOR SWEDISH RADIO'S "OBS". NOW LIVES IN MALMO. HAS

PREVIOUSLY WRITTEN ON. INTER ALIA, LATIN AMERICA AND BALTIC
STATES. A

3. FILE DEFER. EZ IMPDET.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CABLE BEC DISSEM BY
PER
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES 28
RUN BY
PRODUCTION BY OTH
ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
RF FILE VR
STAFF
C/LP/AN CEURG 0/553
C/PS/EG3 9/056/1C goes
ACTION
T 172681 E1A126
PAGE 01-01
IN 274496
TORI0716312 JUN 74
SAGO 29396
SECRET 0715442 JUN 74 STAFF
CITE SANTIAGO 29396
TO: DIRECTOR INFO PARIS,
RYBAT HYSADE
REFSI A. PARIS 48989 (J273492)
B. DIRECTOR 559514
1. STATION CONCURS WITH PARIS ASSESSMENT. IF ALLENDE ACTUALLY
   DID WANT TO SURRENDER, JUNTA COULD ONLY SUFFER FROM PUBLICIZING
   FACT.
2. FILE: 56-6-42/3, 201-927906. E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 27.1

SECRET

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
FILE
VR

ACTION

T 169854
E1A366
PAGE 01
IN 273492
TOR:0620192 JUN 74
PARI 48989

SECRET 2618242 JUN 74 STAFF

CITE PARIS 46989

TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO.

RYBAT HYSAGE

REF: DIRECTOR 559514

1. DEFER SANTIAGO RE PARA 5 BUT WE FEEL THERE LITTLE TO BE
   GAINED IN PSYCH TERMS FOR EUROPEAN AUDIENCE TO ATTEMPT CLARIFY
   WHETHER ALLENDE KILLED WHILE FIGHTING OR ATTEMPTING SURRENDER.
   JUNTA'S PRESTIGE SO LOW IN EUROPEAN EYES THAT SUCH HAIR SPLITTING
   WOULD NOT MAKE MUCH DIFFERENCE OR COULD ACTUALLY REBOUND
   AGAINST JUNTA SHOULD IT EMERGE HE DIED WHILE WANTING SURRENDER.
2. SHOULD IT DEVELOP THAT FANATICS AROUND ALLENDE REFUSED
   ALLOW HIM SURRENDER, THEN THIS MIGHT BE ANOTHER STORY BUT THIS
   NOT CLEAR FROM REF AND ALSO NOT KNOWN IF GARCES COULD MAKE
   SUCH VERSION STICK BECAUSE OF HIS EARLY DEPARTURE FROM NATIONAL
   PALACE.
3. FILE:/56-6-42/31 221-987906. E2, IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Helsinki

C/WH Division

Acting Chief of Station, Santiago

FUOMEN Psych

Ref: HELSINKI 22455

If available, we would appreciate receiving four copies of Andres Kung's book mentioned in reference. E2 IMPDET.

Leslie H. BERBERIAN

Distribution:
2 COS Helsinki - To out porch
1 C/WHD

RECORD COPY

HCSA-18904

SECRET

3 May 1974

HQS FILE NUMBER 15-124-52
Defer


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# NETHERLANDS

## CHILEAN REFUGEES IN NETHERLANDS POINTED OUT AS FUGITIVES

Editorial by N. van Nieuwenhuysen; Reformatorisch Dagblad,
Dutch, 19 April 1974, P5

The Chilean refugees in the Netherlands seem to be having adjustment problems. These rather prolonged symptoms seem to be caused among other things by the fact that they still find it hard to accept that the socialist dream of their *Marxist* president is definitely over and that their country is now being ruled by a small group of reactionaries who are trying to keep the people under control through terrorism, repression, and torture. Such problems will take you quite a ways in the Netherlands and those idealists were quick to take advantage of it.

### Welfare

What is the situation? Most of the approximately 250 refugees with a high school or university education do not work. About half of them have been housed at the "Huis ter Schie" in Overschie, where they enjoy the sunshine on the terrace or play volleyball in the yard. Board and lodging are free and at the end of the week they pick up another 25 guilders pocket money. In addition they receive free language instruction, commuter tickets for the bus, and compensation for each trip they have to take.

Do you get the idea that they are better off than many old people in the Netherlands? You are probably right, because the Chilean exiles do not have to live on welfare; they are being paid from the frozen funds which had been allocated for development aid to their fatherland, Chile. So you can see how well our tax money is being spent.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Considering that this small group of pampered exiles is preaching revolution even here and with a full stomach, it may be useful to point out a few facts. These are facts which are well known in the Ministry in The Hague but for some reason never made it to the Netherlands press.

## Facts

The great majority of the refugees are not even Chilean nationals. They are natives of Bolivia, Brazil, and Uruguay. They came to Chile as a result of illegal and revolutionary activities in which they had been involved in these South and Middle American countries, the ultimate consequences of which they did not wish to suffer.

They felt at home in Allende's Chile because Allende showed sympathy for their situation. His first action as president, after his inauguration in November 1970, was to declare amnesty for all those who "were members of terrorist underground organizations," those who during the last months of his predecessor's regime had been charged with bank robbery, the armed robbery of self-service stores, the theft of weapons from military arsenals, kidnapping, and attempted murder.

The fact that some of those revolutionaries received Chilean diplomatic status was due to Allende's policy of granting residence permits to this type of revolutionaries. These refugees with a high school or higher level education seemed to have no adjustment problems in Chile. As a result they soon found their way to important key positions in the government.

The fugitives didn't suffer any sleepless nights in Chile either, because they felt protected by a militant Marxist army, armed to the teeth. Some 10,000 revolutionaries, from all points of the compass, were at their disposal.

## Definition

In the Berner Tageblatt, a Swiss newspaper which is known for not exaggerating, Dr. Mario Puelma, from the University of Freiburg, wrote the following: "The concept of political refugee is only of limited value when applied to Chile. Whatever one's attitude toward the military junta


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

may be, one thing is certain: the Chilean refugees were not pursued only because of their ideology, their status, or their origin. This is the traditional, humanitarian definition for a refugee. For the most part they are people who, in their own country, could be legally charged with crimes which are punishable under any judicial system.

These refugees carried out activities in Chile which were against the constitution. As a matter of fact, they are specialists in violence. This is why they sought asylum in the foreign embassies in Santiago and why there are so many foreigners among them."

8463
CSO: 8014/2087-W


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

# VRIJDAG 17 APRIL 1974

## V.S.-economie loopt terug

WASHINGTON - De Amerikaanse regering heeft donderdag bekend- gemaakt dat de nationale economie verl krachtiger la teruggelopen, in het eerste kwartaal van dit jaar, dan was irrwacht. Prijzen stegen bovendien met meer dan tien procent.

Het bruto natkmale prralukt in ininderde in het eerste kwartaal met een jaar-percentage van 5.8 Dit is de eerste keer sinds 1970 dat het bruto natimale produkt is verminderd en het is de scherpste daling in 16 jaar. De vermindering van het bruto natio- Bale produkt met 5.8 procent moet vergrieken worden met een schatting Van tussen de 3 en 4 procent, zoal die door de regering was gedaan. In het laatsır kwartaal van hut vorig jaar naim het bruto nationale produkt toe inet 1,6 procent.

## MINISTERS KRIJGEN HUISARREST

## Ethiopische leger uit scherpe verwijten

ETHIOPISCESGER

ADDIS ARTS - Premier Endal- kachew Makwezen van Ethiopië heeft donderdag bekrodgemaakt dat de le- den van de recesing die eind februari door de strydkrachten gedwongen werd af te treden, buisarrest hebben egen.

Volgens de hiepische radio heeft Makkonen & gesegd op een bijeen- komst in Addis Abeba van rond 2.000 officieren en manschappen. De pre- mier zou naar de bijeenkomst ont- boden in door de strijdkrachten die hem hadden lazee weten dat het leger gedwongen an in te grijpen als er niet onmis tegen de minis- ters werd opga

Het leger verwijt de ministers dat zij het land in rea economische chaos hebben gestart zich op onwettige wijze verrijkt bedden en na hun af- treden hebben samengezworen om verdeeldheid te waaien

## PLANNEN

Makonnen gat se de bijeenkomst een uitwere setting van de hervormings vs zijn rege- ring. lit pros de seresrachten voor hun voorberg getrag en deed een beroep op hen een voorreeld te geven van de tucht Se nodig is voor het land in de ke casen die nog zullen komen er zou het huisarrest van de voormalige mints- ters bekend gemaakt toen

## Liberaal Kennedy aan het woord

hem de vraag werd gesteld waarom een arme Ethiopiër die ren broed heeft gestolen, orimiddellijk de ge- vangenis ingaat, terwijl de ex-minis- ters die ernstige misdaden zouden hebben begaan, niet voor de recht- bank worden gedaagd en maar on- gehinderd op straat rondlopen.

Makonnen zei dat er een commisste Is benoemd die een onderzoek moet Instellen naar het gedrag van de voormalige ministers.

## POLITIE

In de stad Asmara heeft de politie bekendgemaakt dat zij geen routine- werk meer zal verrichten, omdat haar eis tot ontslag van het landelijae hoofd van de politie, luitenant-gene- raal Vilma Shibeshi, niet is ingewil- ligd. Voorts hebben de 1.200 spoor- wegmannen die woensdag in staking zijn gegaan, de vrachtauto's tegennge- houden die goederen van Asmara naar de haverstad Massawa zouden brengen.

## Arbeidsonrust in Canada

OTTAWA - De posterijen, het commerciele luchtverkeer en het scheepvaartverkeer op de St.-Law- rence rivier in Canada zijn verlamd door een staking die het land dage- lijks enkele miljoenen dollars Kost De arbeidanrust duurt nu al meer dan een wees en zal volgens de Ca- nadese parlementaire oppositie de Inflatie, die momentee! jaarlijks 10 procent bedraagt, bevorderen.

Door winte stakingen is de helft van alle poskantoren in het land gesloten ten gevolge van solidar..

## Opgemerkt

## Chili

Chileense vluchtelingen In Nedemand schijnen aanpassing problemen te hebben. Dit hogal langdurige verschijnsel blijkt on- dermeer veroorzaakt te worden doordat zij het nog steeds aalet kunnen verkroppen dat de sorialla- tische droom van de Marxistische president definitief voorbij is en dat hun land nu beheerst wordt door een kleine groep reactionairen die met terreur, onderdrukking en fol- teringen probeert het volk onder de dulm te houden. Met zo'n lange vol- sin kom je een heel eind in Ne- derland en dit hadden deze idealls- ten al gauw in de gaten.

## VERZORGING

Want wat is het geval? Werken doen de meeste van de ongeveer 2.50 vluchtelingen van middelbaar en universitair niveau niet. Ongeveer de helft van hen is ondergebracht in het Huis ter Schle" in Overschle, waar zij op het terras genieten van de zon of volleybal spelen in de tuln. Kast en inwoning zijn gratis enaan het einde van de werk van- gen zij ook nog eens viffentwintig gulden zakgeld. Daarbij krligen zij nog gratis taalcursussen, een rit-f tenkaart voor de bus en een vergoe- ding voor elke reis die zij moeten maken.

Door

N. van Nieuwenhuysen

U vindt dat zij het beter hebben als menig Nederlands bejaarde? Waarschijnlijk hebt u gelijk, want de Chileense hallingen behoeven niet van de bijstand te leven: zij worden namelijk gefinancierd door de geblokkeerde gelden voor ont- wikkelingshulp aan hun vaderland Chili: Zo ziet u maar hoe goed ons belastinggeld wordt besteed.

Daar dit in de watten gelegde groepje ballingen selfs hier nog met volle maag de revolutie predikt is het misschien nuttig enige feiten te noemen. Feiten die op het ministerie In Den Haag welbekend zijn, maar om de een of andere reden nooit de pers in Nederland halen.

## FEITEN

De vluchtelingen hebben voor het overgrote deel niet reas de Chi- lense nationaliselt. Zij zijn afkom-


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# Lijk halfrond

# Over Cuba

# Hington

Een donder-nalaten te voorkomen dat de invloed
an ministers ult Latijns-Amerika nog meer aan
Galfrond in beperkingen onderhevig wordt ze-
genodigd op maakt,

Coudproduktie achteruit
folgend jaar

en van het wes-
Mexico-stad twee
igar had zich niet
uw in de prul-
Minister Ki-lijk zeker van
migde Staten in
te zijn in verle-
vragen omtrent
bijeenkomst komst te
enkomst wordt
n de organisatte
en op vrijdag in

EMBARGO

ué waarmes de
kost hebben af-
over Cuba ge-
ht's economische
neden. Niettemin
memers dat het
ultaat van de
hington is, dat de
eld lijken te zijn
rgobeleid tegen
matigen. Wat de
en de verschillen
merika en de La-
den gebleven te

vs afschaffing
immeringen maar

# Grote onrust onder

# Mijnwerkers in Z.-Afrika

JOHANNESBURG - In de afgelopen weken is moord en doodslag in de
Zuidafrikaanse goudmiinen onder de zwarte mijnwerkers tot een zorgbarende
omvang uitgegroeid. De jongste balans van bloedige stamtwisten tussen gast-
arbeiders uit Lesotho en de Xhowa's in de goudmijn Carletonville, bij Johannes-
burg, luidt: tien doden en drie en zestig gewonden.

De meeste slachtoffers waren gru-zegt te weten waarom de mijnwer-
welijk verminkt. Slaapplaatsen wer-kers elkaar doodslaan. „Hun verte-
den vernield, met benzine overgoten genwoordigers weten het niet ca ik
en in brand gestoken. Vluchtende betwijfel, of de arbeiders zelf het wel
mijnwerkers zijn volgens ooggetuigen weten", aldus de bedrijfsleider.
doodgeschoten.
Veien menen, dat ingewurzelde

Tienduizend Bascho's hebben sinds stammen-vijandschap de oorzaak is
februari hun werkterrein in Zuid- van de onlusten. Daarbij komt dat bij
Afrika in de steek gelaten en zijn de huidige woningnood een nietige
naar hun veilige bergachtige vader- aanleiding voldoende is om de hast
land Lesotho terugsräcent. Vele an- tegen de gastarbeiders tot een explo-
dere zijn van plank naar Lesotho sie te brengen. De mijnmaatschap-
terug te gaan. Na de Basotho's vrezen pijen hebben zich tot dusver verzet
thans de mijnwerkers uit Malawi san tegen de eis, de zwarte mijnwerkers
de beurt te zijn. te groeperen naar de streken waar
vandaan komen. Zij menen, dat dan
INSPRAAK nog grotere onlusten zouden antaan.
Het zou zelfs tot slachtpartijen
Woordvoerders van de zwarte kunnen komen. Intussen gast de
mijnwerkers verklaren, dat de mijn- goudproduktie achteruit. In Lesotho
werkers niets in te brengen hebben 2it de regering met het probleem van
tegenover de blanke leiding van de de brüdeloos geworden teru-
mijnen en niets aan de arbeidsom-

BELGRADO - Amerikanse
senator Edward Kennedy heeft dom-
derdagen blend op een persconferent
in de Zuidslavische hoofdstad Bete-
grado de vlootoefeningen van de
NAVO veroordeeld die onlangs in het
noorden van de Adriatische Zee zijn
gehouden.

Deze oefeningen hebben het gechil
tussen Italië en Zusdstavić ower de
zogenaamde zone R ten zuiden van
Telest verscherpt. Kennedy meende
het geen afdoende reden dat de of-
ferning niet kon worden afgelast san-
dat al verscheidene maanden ze-
voren in voorbereiding waren zeta-
men. In Amerikaanse maakur is
donderdag na een bezoek van drie
dagen, tijdens hetwelk hij heepre-
kingen voerde met onder meer pre-
sident Tito, naar de Sovjet-Unie
Coorgereind. Hij zel weer onder de
Indruk" te zijn van zijn gesprekken
met het Zuldslavische staatshoofd.

20 werknemers schorste omdat I-
shirts drongen, waarop het parkick
word verzocht de Canadese puteren
de boycotten. De werknemers willen
leoncisen stellen, maar de overheid
weigert te onderhandelen totdat de
dereen weer aan het werk is.

138 loodsen op de St-Lawrene ri-
vier, die voor alle scheepvaarherkeer
zorgen tussen Montreal en Quebec
zijn al al een werk in staking omiat aij
een onmiddelijke loonsverhoge ri-
sen van 20.000 tot 38.000 dollar per
Jaar. De regering heeft hen 35.000
dollar geboden over con peruste van
drie jaar en zoekt momenteel naar
mogelijkheden om de lonisen te
dwingen het werk te hervatten.

Ook het luchthaven personeel eist
loonsverhoging van rond de 300 dol-
lar. De acht grootste luchthavens van
het land hebben de afgelopen week
op halve kracht gewerkt Vender
dreigt een staking van de verkeersirt-
ders.

# Irak krijgt

# Parlement

BAGDAD - Irak krijgt war het
eerst sedert de revolutie van 1958 een
volksvertegenwoordiging. Het presi-
dium van het progressieve nationale
front" heeft hiertoe besloten, zo is
donderdag bekendgemaakt. Wanneer
de volksvertegenwoordiging er komt
en of die tot stand zal komen voor al-
gemene verkiezingen, is nog niet be-
sloten. In Bagdad staat een grot
gebouw voor een nationale vergade-
ring maar het is nog nooit gebruikt.
De socialistische Baus-partij en de
communisten werken samen in het
progressieve nationale front.

Maiden.
slch in dese Zuid en
Amerikaanse landen under berig
gehouden met onwetter se revolu-
tionaire gedragingen wij
de uiteindelijke consecrasies niet
wensten te dragen.

In het Chili van Allende vociden
alj sich thuis omdat Allerde begrip
toonde your hun gedras. Sen eerste
daad als president, toen bij in no-
vember 1970 geïnstalleerd was, be-
stond namelijk uit het sondigen
ran amnestie voor al dirgenen, die
alid waren van een treeeeistische
ondergrondse organisatie, voor hen
die in de lactate maanden vader zijn
voorganger waren aangehad voor
het beroven van banken geweld-
dadige overvallen zwirbedie-
ningswinkels, diefstal van wapens
uit militaire depots, ontoweringen en
moordaanslagen.

Dat sominigen van deze revolu-
tlonairen Chileens depermatleke
status kregen is ook veedaarbaar
als men weet dat de regering van
Allende een beleid veerde dat er op
gericht was om Juist veedDjfsver-
gunningen te geven aan dit type
revolutionairen. Deze vechtelingen
van middelbaar en boere niveau
bleken namelijk in Chiti geen
aanpassingsmoeilijkheden te heb-
ben. Zij vonden dan ook welura hun
weg naar belangrijke sleete posities
In de regering.

Slapeloze nachten hadden de
"vervolgden" in Chilik niet, om-
dat zij alch beschermd welden door
een tot de tanden grasajead mili-
tant-Marxistisch soldatenbreee. Zo'n
10.000 revolutionairen wit alle wind-
streken stonden hen we beschik-
king.

# DEFINITIEF

In het Berner Tapohist cen
Zwitserse krant die sich niet aan
overdrijving schuldig maakt.
schrijft dr. Mario Puelma van de
Freiburgse Universiteit: Bet con-
cept van de politicke hachteling
kan met betrekking tot i slechts
In zeer beperkte mate griden Hoe
men ook mag staan tegenover de
militaire junta, con ding is æker: de
Chileense vluchtelingen werden niet
alleen vervolgd voor han ideologie.
status of afkomst. Dit laaste is de
traditionele humanitaire defenitie
van een vervolgde. Voor het groot-
ste deel zijn het mensen de in hun
eigen land wettelijk aangeklaagd
kunnen worden voor midden die
ander elk rechtsbestel strafbaar
rijn.

Deze vluchtelingen werden in
Chili daden uit die in sand waren
met de grondwet. In fer sijn het
specialisten in geweld. Om deze
redenen zochten zij asiel en de bul-
tenlandse ambassades in Santiago
en daarom bevinden zich zoveel
buitenlanders onder hen.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

35-3

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: EURT INFO: FILE 1P/AN, WHT) 555, 03/INT
P3/EG4, 056/12, 015/1T65

3022402

DIRECTOR

556१११

DISSEM BY: 46/46

TO: BONN BASE INFO BONN, SANTIAGO, HAMBURG.Y

FUONYX CAQUARRY TOFOCUS Y

REFS: A. BONN BASE 31991 [IN 262014]

B. DIRECTOR 5186574

1. FOR REF A FEATURE, SUGGEST BASE PROVIDE CAQUARRY WITH
   APPROPRIATE INFO ON REBOFUGEES AVAILABLE IN NUMEROUS HAS TRACE CABLES
   SENT. BONN. WE ARE UNABLES IDENTIFY ANY REFUGEES LIVING IN GERMANY
   UNDER FALSE IDENTITY.Y

2. AIRMAILING TO BEROUTSAS BACKGROUND MATERIAL ON LEFTIST BREOB
   EFFORTS TO DISCREDIT CHILEAN REGIME, INCLUDING:Y

A. LCBEFORE PRESS SUMMARIES OF FRONT ACTIVITIES.Y

B. NEWS BULLETING PUBLISHED BY BRITISH CHILE SOLIDARITY
COMMITTEE, WHICH CONTAINS "INTERNATIONAL NEWS" SECTION AND A
SECTION GIVING CHILEAN REFUGEE QUOTAS BY COUNTRY.Y

C. ARTICLES RE RUSSELL TRIBUNAL ON CHILE, HELD ROME,
APRIL 74.4

D. MAY 1974 WIENER TAGEBUCH ARTICLE ON CHILE BLACK BOOK.Y

E. APRIL 1974 FRANKFURT-STADT RUNDSCHAU ARTICLE RE CHILEAN

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE 556999

DIRECTOR

DISSEM BY:

SOLIDARITY MEETING HELD FRANKFURT 24-27 APRIL. 4

3. WE ARE UNABLE SUGGEST KNOWLEDGEABLE PERSON OF STATURE FOR INTERVIEW ON LEFTIST EFFORT DISCREDBIT REGIME. AS ALTERNATIVE, SUGGEST CAQUARRY OR NETWORK REPORTER MIGHT SEEK INTERVIEW OF DR. MARIO PUELMA, PROFESSOR OF CLASSICAL PHILOLOGY AT FREIBURG UNIVERSITY, WHO WROTE TWO-PART ARTICLE IN 88015-16 JANUARY ISSUES OF BERN DAILY BERNER TAGBLATT ON SUBJECT CHILEAN REFUGEES. IN ARTICLES PUELMA GIVES BACKGROUND OF TERRORIST MOVEMENT IN CHILE AS IT DEVELOPED AS RESULT OF ALLENDE GOVERNMENT POLICIES AND CITES EXAMPLES OF "REFUGEES" AND THEIR ACTIVITIES TO SHOW THAT "TRADITIONAL CONCEPT OF.. POLITICAL REFUGEE, WITH RESPECT TO CHILE, CAN BE APPLIED ONLY IN VERY LIMITED SENSE..." (SEE QRPEG B026, REF B, FOR SUMMARY OF ARTICLES.

4. SUGGEST FEATURE INCLUDE POINT THAT EFFORT TO DISCREDIT CHILEAN REGIME IS ENCOURAGED, IF NOT ORCHESTRATED, BY SOVIET FRONTS AND THAT PUBLICITY GENERATED BY "SOLIDARITY" CAMPAIGN (E.G., "INTERNATIONAL NEWS" SECTION OF BRITISH COMMITTEE BULLETIN) HAS IENTIMI-DATING EFFECT PRECLUDING OBJECTIVITY. BEGNEATH SUPERFICIAL SHOW OF "SOLIDARITY," EUROPEAN LEFTISTS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT HAVING CRIMINAL/

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

PAGE 3 OF PAGES

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

DATE TIME GROUP

FILE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER: 536999

DIRECTOR

DISSEM BY:

TERRORIST "REFUGEES" IN EUROPE, AND COMMUNIST PARTIES HAVE BEEN ENGAGED IN CRITICALLY ANALYZING EVENTS LEADING TO CHILE COUP AND REASSESSING THEIR OWN PROSPECTS FOR SUCCESSFULLY DEALING WITH NON-COMMUNIST PARTIES AND ASSUMING POWER BY NON-VIOLENT MEANS. MIGHT ALSO MAKE POINT THAT WITH VIETNAM NO LONGER AN ISSUE, CHILE REPRESENTS ONE FOCUS FOR ENGENDERING UNITY BETWEEN COMMUNIST AND NON-COMMUNIST LEFT IN WESTERN EUROPE.Y

S. FOR INFORMATION OR POSSIBLE INTERVIEW ON EXTREME LEFTIST VIEWS/ACTIVITY, SUGGEST CAQUARRY OR ZDF REPORTER MIGHT CONTACT "SOCIALIST BUREAU," SPONSOR OF SOLIDARITY MEETING HELD FRANKFURT 24-27 APRIL. (SEE BONN 31174 AND BONN 31869). FOR INFORMATION OR POSSIBLE INTERVIEW ON JUNTA VIEWS, SUGGEST CONTACT DEUTSCH-CHILENIS-CHER BUND (SEE BERLIN 81306, OCT 733. 676994)

6. FILE: 200-126-107/11. E2 IMPDET.A

![signature for AC/SS/CAG/PSB Barbara Baldwin]

DATE: 30 MAY 1974

ORIG: CONNIE MOORE:SRM

UNIT: E/CAG

EXT: 66408/1389

![signature]

C/E/CAG

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 004244


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

CABLE SEC OISSEM BY 9
TOTAL COPIES 28
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
RUN BY
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH.
ISPUING OFFICE IS PROMISITE
ADVANCE COFY ISSUED SLOTTED
STAFF
ACTION UNI
EAY
BY S88, OSGloc clOPS
ACTION # OSGLIC Cils, W+18 PAN
T 1497.93
11850
PAGE 01
IN 265992
TOR:3211442 MAY 74
BANG 59314
SECRET 3011122 MAY 74 STAFF
C/WH/6
CITE BANGKOK S9314
DC/WH/6
TOI DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO.
WH/6/SA
REDLEG AEFISH
WH/6/F!
WH/6/RR
REFSI A. BANGKOK 59065( in 260348) WH/6/Socy Fil: FUSMEN
B. DIRECTOR 554557

1. MILTON C. REPOUSH AND RALPH K. TOLGIEN MET WITH EMILIO GALETZKI
   ON 25 MAY AND PASSED REF 8 INFG. TOLGIEN HAD FOLLOW-UP MEETING WITH
   GALETZKI ON 29 MAY TO DISCUSS HIS ENCOUNTER WITH ARTHUR CUNNING.

2. GALETER: MET CUNNING AT HOME OF ROBERT 3. HARTFORD. U.S.
   CITIZEN EMPLOYED IN POPULATION DIVISION OF ECAFE. HARTFORD IS
   PRO-ALLENDE AND ORGANIZED SMALL SOCIAL GATHERING OF INTERESTED
   PERSONS TO MEET CUNNING AND DISCUSS CURRENT SITUATION IN CHILE.
   CUNNING IS DESCRIBED AS ABOUT FORTY YEARS OLD. BLACK HAIR, FULL
   BEARD AND AVERAGE BUILD. HE IS A DEMOGRAPHER EMPLOYED BY UNITED
   NATIONS AT CENTRO LATINO AMERICANO DE DESARROLLO (CELADE) IN
   SANTIAGO, -E ARRIVED CHILE IN OCTOBER 1972 WITH HIS WIFE. CUNNING
   DEPARTED BA154- 27 MAY FOR DELHI, KATHMANDU AND NEW YORK AND
   PLANNEDRES SALAGU APPROX 22 JUNE.

3. CUNNING WALKED VERY LITTLE ABOUT ALLENDE REGIME AND
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CABLE SEC DISSEM OV PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ARVANGE COPY ISSUED:2LOTTEO BY A'
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR

ACTION

T 149793 Ε14850 PAGE 02 IN 265992
TOR:3211442 MAY 74 BANG 59314

CONCENTRATED ON DISPARAGING PRESENT REGIME. CLAIMED THERE THOUSANDS
OF REPRISAL KILLINGS BY ARMY, FUN AWAY INFLATION, SHORTAGE OF GOODS
AND GENERAL REPRESSION BY REGIME. CUNNING VERY SUBJECTIVE IN
STATEMENTS AND HAD FEW FACTS TO BACK UP STATEMENTS. WHEN GALETZKI
ASKED CUNNING HOW HE KNEW THERE "THOUSANDS OF KILLINGS", CUNNING
CLAIMED "THERE IS CIA REPORT WHICH STATES OVER TWENTY THOUSAND HAD.
BEEN KILLED." GALETEKI FOUND FORTIONS OF REF 8 INFO USEFUL IN REFUTING
CUNNING STATEMENTS. HOWEVER GALETZKI'S TEMPER GOT THE BEST OF HIM HALF
WAS THROUGH MEETING AND FRIEND SUGGESTED THAT HE REFRAIN FROM
ARGUING WITH CUNNING LEST THE SITUATION BECOME VIOLENT.

4. GALETZKI TELEXED REPORT ON CUNNING TO HIS EMBASSY IN TOKYO.
   HE TOLD TOLGIEN WOULD PASS HIM ANY FEED BACK INFO ON CUNNING HE MIGHT
   RECEIVE.

5. REQUEST POA AND 221 ON CALETZKI TO DEVELOP AND RECRUIT AS
   MOLIMBER ASSET TARGETTED PRIMARILY ON AEFISH TOLGIEN WILL UTILIZE
   COVER AS AIR FORCE CIVILIAN ASSIGNED TO EMBASSY AS ANALYST DURING
   DEVELOPMENT,

6. FIL: 22.-795277. 221-GALETZKI, E2, IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

CABLE BEC DISSEM 36

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT RF FILE VA dlplan, clss3. chs/co 3.
ACTION

T 148171 E1A272 PAGE 1-01

TOR:292150Z MAY 74 C/WH/6
DC/WH/6

SECRET 292140Z MAY 74 STAFF
WH/6/SA

CITE SANTIAGO 29314 Retentok WH/6/FI

WH/6/RR
TO: DIRECTOR.
WH/6/Sec'y

RYBAT PSYCH

REF: DIRECTOR 553537 Fil. FUOMEN

1. FUERMINE-3 HAS CLOSE AND CONTINUING CONTACT WITH LOCAL OFFICES OF MAJOR WINE SERVICES. WE TASKING HIM WITH COMPREHENSIVE LIST OF REPS HERE AS WELL AS SPOTTING AND ASSESSMENT INFO ON WHO MIGHT BE DISPOSED TO COLLABORATE WITH U.S. GOVERNMENT.

2. STATION ALSO EXPLORING PEF WITH FUTRUNK-1 AND FUACME-10.

3. NO FILE. EZ IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY

PERSONJI/UNIT NOTIFIED

CONFIDENTIAL

STAFF

T 142756
E1A997
PAGE 01-01
IN 263354

HELS 22538

CONFIDENTIAL 282351Z MAY 74 STAFF

CITE HELSINKI 22538

TO: SANTIAGO INFO DIRECTOR.

FUOMEN PSYCH

REF: HCSA 18984

1. LARGEST LOCAL BOOK STORE HAS BOOK ON ORDER, WHEN RECEIVED, STATION CAN BUY AND POUCH COPIES PER REF. HOWEVER, WISH POINT OUT, IF SANTIAGO NOT ALREADY AWARE, THAT BOOK IN SWEDISH. IF COPIES STILL DESIRED AND SANTIAGO WISHES OBTAIN EARLIER, SUGGEST STOCKHOLM STATION BE ASKED BUY SINCE BOOK SHOULD BE READILY AVAILABLE IN SWEDEN.

2. FILE DEFER, E2 IMPDET.

RECORD COPY

CONFIDENTIAL

![signiture]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECRET

CABLE SEC DISSTO

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COOL IBFVED FLOTTED

ACTION UNIT

FILE

EURB

ACTION

VR

TOTAL COPIES 302,

REPRODUCTION OF OTHER THAP
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF

AT

AN WHB 356

PSIEGY OPSTINT

T 137686

E1A005

PAGE 01

IN 262014

TOR:2417162 MAY 74

BNNG 31991

SECRET 2416272 MAY 74 STAFF

CITE BONN BASE 31991

TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO. BONN. HAMBURG.

FUONYX CAQUARRY TOFOCUS

REF BONN BASE 31516 (10241838):

C/WH/6

DC/WH/6b

WH/5/٢٨

W١/٥/٢١

WH/6/RR

WH/6/Sec'y.

1. CAQUARRY ADVISED ZOF MAGAZIN PLANNING ANOTHER FEATURE ON CHILE FOCUSING ON CHILEAN POLITICAL REFUGEES IN WEST GERMANY. CAQUARRY WOULD LIKE EXPOSE REVOLUTIONARY/CRIMINAL BACKGROUND OF SOME OF REFUGEES AND IDENTIFY ANY LIVING IN GERMANY UNDER FALSE IDENTITY. ALSO INTERESTED FOCUSING ON WORLD-WIDE LEFTIST EFFORT DISCREDIT CHILEAN REGIME. AS PART FEATURE CAQUARRY WOULD LIKE TO HAVE ZDF INTERVIEW A PERSON KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOVE. IDEALLY SUBJECT SHOULD BE PERSON OF SOME STATURE. INTERVIEW CAN BE MADE LATIN AMERICA. NORTH AMERICA, OR IN EUROPE. SECURITY NOT A PROBLEM AS CAQUARRY WILL SIMPLY ASSIGN NETWORK REPORTER TO MAKE INTERVIEW ON NONWITTING BASIS USING QUESTIONS CAQUARRY WILL PROVIDE,

2. ALSO APPRECIATE ANY SACKGROUND MATERIAL ON THIS SUBJECT WHICH COULD BE PASSED TO CAQUARRY. GERMAN LANGUAGE MATERIAL MOST USEFUL SINCE CAQUARRY HAS NO ENGLISH OR SPANISH CAPABILITY.

SECRET

Fl

FUOMEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

CABLE REC DISKEM BY: PLN

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.

ADVANCE.COPY ISSUED. SLOTTED BY: AI

ACTION UNIT: RF FILE: VH

ACTION

T 137600 EIA065 PAGE 02-02 IN 262014
TOR:241716Z MAY 74 BNNB: 31991

3. RE PARA 2 REF, STILL ON "PER DU" BASIS MATTHOEFER RECENTLY CONTACTED CAQUARRY TO ASK HIM MAKE PUBLIC RETRACTION OF PARA 2 STATEMENT. CAQUARRY REFUSED AND SUGGESTED MATTHOEFER INSTITUTE LIBEL SUIT. MATTHOEFER QUICKLY BACKED DOWN. INCIDENTALLY, IN APPARENT BONE TO LEFT-WING SPD. HOS WILL NOTE THAT MATTHOEFER HAS BEEN APPOINTED MINISTER OF RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY UNDER NEW GOVERNMENT.

4. FILE: 201-0230705; X-REF 201-0903816. E2-IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

FORM

CABLE SEC DIBSEM BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES 33-1 RUN BY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER TH
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITS

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT
EUR 8
RF FILE VR MAN, SSS, SBB, WH8

ACTION

7 125861 E1A160 PAGE 21-01 IN.251122

TOR:141020Z MAY 74 STOC 15691

SECRET 142938Z MAY 74 STAFF

CITE STOCKHOLM 15691

TO: DIRECTOR INFO HELSINKI.

FUOMEN PSYCH

REF: A. DIRECTOR 549305

B. HELSINKI 22455 (239973)

1. NO STATION TRACES KYUNG.

2. NO FILE. E2 IMPDET

![WH/6]

DC/WH/6

WH/6/SA

WH/6/FI

WH/6/RR

WH/6/Sec'y

SECRET

Fil FUOMEN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET

CABLE MEC 38 PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SCOTTEO

TOTAL COPIES 33-2
STAFF

ACTION UNIT
RF FILE VR IPIAN, WARB, 555

BUR 8
01/002, P5/E64, OSG/OC, C/OPS.
ACTION #

T 103782 E1A146 PAGE 01 IN 252476

TOR:1318512 MAY 74 SAGO 29117

SECRET 1316212 MAY 74 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 29117 (JABAUT ACTING)

TOI PARIS INFO DIRECTOR,

TOFUCUS UNSOBER

REFI A. DIRECTOR 549348

B. PARIS 48390 (IN 250176)

C/WH/6

DC/WH/6

WH/6/SA

WH/6/FI

WH/6/RR

WH/6/Secy

rl. FUOMEN

1. AGREE WITH REF B RECOMMENDATION TO AWAIT OUTCOME OF FRENCH ELECTION BEFORE DECIDING IF AND HOW TO ASSIST UNSOBER-1. IN MAKING THAT DECISION. THE FOLLOWING POINTS SHOULD BE CONSIDERED:

A. WHILE STATION HAS CAPABILITY VIA FUTRUNK-1 (IDEN FOR PARIS), RECENTLY RECRUITED SALARIED AGENT, TO ASSIST UNSOBER-1 IN OBTAINING INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL PINOCHET. IT SHOULD BE KEPT IN MIND THAT OUR INTERVENTION NO MATTER HOW SUBTLE, WOULD VERY PROBABLY IDENTIFY UNSOBER-1 TO FUTRUNK-1 AS AGENCY SOLLABORATOR.

B. THE CHILEAN GOVT IS VERY SENSITIVE TO FOREIGN PRESS CRITICISM AND WOULD LOOK UNHAPPILY ON ANY T.V. PROGRAM WHICH REFLECTS SADLY ON GOVT, REGARDLESS OF HOW SLIGHT THE CRITICISM MIGHT BE. CONSEQUENTLY, WE WOULD NOT WANT TO OBTAIN

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES RUN BY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS. PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED BY AT

STAFF

1 4

2 5

3 6

ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR

ACTION # NFO

T 105782 Ε1Α146 PAGE 02-02 IN 252476

TORI1318512 MAY 74 SAGJ 29117

FUTRUNK-1'S ASSISTANCE FOR ANY PROGRAM WHICH COULD PROVE EMBARRASSING TO HIM.

2. FILE: 201-872997. E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

STAFF

TO: SANTIAGO INFO PARIS.Y

TOFOCUS UNSOBER Y

REF: OFAA-2356、9 APRIL 74 (NOT NEEDED SANTIAGOJY

1. TOFOCUS ACTIVITY SEEKS TO DEVELOP ASSETS TO INFLUENCE NEWS AND OTHER PROGRAMMING WITH POLITICAL CONTENT IN EUROPEAN TV SERVICES. IN FRANCE THIS HAS BEEN PARTICULARBLY TOUGH NUT TO CRACK, BUT PARIS STATION HAS MADE RECENT PROGRESS WITH UNSOBER/1. THIS FORMER STAFF JOURNALIST FOR PRETIGIOUS FRENCH NEWS WEEKLY L'EXPRESS RECENTLY COMPLETED A 30-MINUTE REPORTAGE ON CURRENT EVENTS IN WEST GERMANY. IT WAS WELL RECEIVED AND RESULTED IN HIS BEING TAPPED TO DO SECOND 30-MINUTE PROGRAM. AS UNSOBER/1 APPEARS TO BE ON WAY TO POSITION OF SUBSTANCE WITHIN FRENCH TELEVISION, WE ARE ANXIOUS TO ASSIST HIS RISE AND INSURE THAT PARIS STATION'S MOST PROMISING TOFOCUS ASSET ACHIEVES MOST INFLUENTIAL STATUS POSSIBLE. TO THIS END IT WOULD BE OF VALUE IF UNSOBER/ COULD DO PROGRAM ON THE CURRENT SITUATION IN CHILE.Y

DATE:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

STAFF

CONF:
INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

549348

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

DISSEM BY:

2. THE REPORTAGE WOULD PROBABLY BE DESIGNED FOR 30-MINUTE
   AIRING, AND WOULD HOPEFULLY CONTAIN FILMED INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL
   PINOCHET AND VISIT TO DAWSON ISLAND. WHILE WE BELIEVE THIS WOULD
   BE FIRST INTERVIEW GRANTED TO FRENCH JOURNALIST BY THE HEAD OF
   RULING JUNTA (THUS BIG BOOST FOR UNSOBER/1), WE UNDERSTAND PINOCHET
   HAS GRANTED OTHER INTERVIEWS AND ALLOWED FILMING ON DAWSON ISLAND.
   PROPOSAL HAS BEEN CAREFULLY DISCUSSED WITH UNSOBER/1, AND HE HAS
   SAID REPORTAGE WOULD BE FAVORABLE BUT NOT TOTALLY UNCRITICAL--BEST
   TREATMENT THE CHILEAN GOVERNMENT COULD HOPE FOR IN FRANCE.Y

3. TO OBTAIN INTERVIEW WITH GENERAL PINOCHET AND OTHER JUNTA
   LEADERS AND/OR PERMISSION BBBFILM CONDITIONS ON DAUSON ISLAND AND
   ELSEWHERE IN CHILE. UNSOBER/1 HAS ASKED FOR BKHERALD ASSISTANCE.
   UNSOBER/1 IS CONFIDENT THAT SUPERIORS WOULD APPROVE PROGRAM IF
   UNSOBER/1 COULD ASSURE THEM THAT HE WOULD BE GRANTED INTERVIEWS, ETC.Y

4. PLEASE ADVISE WHAT ASSISTANCE SANTIAGO STATION CAN PROVIDE
   TO UNSOBER/1.4

5. FILE: 201-872997. E2 IMPDET.H

DATE: 8 MAY 1974
ORIG: DAN WAGNER:LD
URIT: E/F/INT
EXT: 9115

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

## OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: EUR8 INFO: FILE 1/AN SBS.

1022392 DIRECTOR

555

547305

DISSEM BY: /S

TO: STOCKHOLM INFO HELSINKI, SANTIAGO. Y

FUOMEN PSYCH Y

REF: HELSINKI 22455 | IN 23997314

1. A FORMER SOVIET FOREIGN MINISTRY OFFICER (AECLUSTER)

REPORTED THAT THE NAME OF ONE ANDRES ALEKSANDROVICH KYUNG,

BORN 1945, NATURALIZED SWEDISH CITIZEN, APPEARED ON SOVIET VISA

BLACKLIST AND HE TO BE DENIED VISA TO USSR. NO REASON GIVEN FOR THIS

DENIAL BY MFA. (DOI: MID-1971). NO OTHER TRACE HQS FILES. Y

2. STOCKHOLM: PLS FURNISH TRACES SUBJECT REF. Y

3. NO FILE. E2 IMPDET.A

WH/6 (CHILE)-

SB/X/EU-

DATE: 10 MAY 74

ORIG: MARIA C. WALSH/JD

UNIT: E/SC/S

EXT: 1588

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

Fl. FUOMEN

AC/E/SC

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 008234


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

FORM 3470
71 UTG. 11-73

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY: 9
TOTAL COPIES: 29-1
RUN BY:
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED: SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/PLOTTED
ACTION UNIT:
EURS
FILE:
CLOPS
VR:
SSS
STAFF

ACTION:
T 123294
E1A670
PAGE 01
IN 250170
TOR:1315422 MAY 74
PARI 48390

SECRET 1313352 MAY 74 STAFF
CITE PARIS 48390

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO DIRECTOR.
TOFUCUS UNSOBER
REF: DIRECTOR 549349

WH/6/Secy

1. IF SOCIALIST PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FRANCOIS MITTERRAND
   IS ELECTED ON 19 MAY, IT MOST DOUBTFUL THAT UNSOBER/1 COULD DO
   PROGRAM ON CHILE THAT WOULD BE ACCEPTABLE TO BKHERALD (OR TO PINOCHET).

2. THEREFORE RECOMMEND SANTIAGO CONSIDER REF WITHIN CONFINES
   OF STATION UNTIL RESULTS OF ELECTION KNOWN. IF MAJORITY CANDIDATE
   GISCARD D'ESTAING WINS (HE HAS SLIGHT LEAD IN PGLLS), CLIMATE
   WILL BE EXCELLENT FOR FAVORABLE TREATMENT OF PINOCHET. IN THIS
   CASE, WOULD BE USEFUL TO HAVE RESPONSE TO REF BY COB 30 MAY TO
   COINCIDE WITH TOY TO PARIS OF HOS TOFUCUS OFFICER.

3. FILE: 221-872997. E-2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

T 103294 EIA672 PAGE 01 IN 253170
TOR:1315422 MAY 74 PARI 48390

SECRET 1313352 MAY 74 STAFF
CITE PARIS 48390

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO DIRECTOR,
TOFUCUS UNSOBER

REF: DIRECTOR 549349

1. IF SOCIALIST PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FRANCOIS MITTERRAND
   IS ELECTED ON 19 MAY, IT MOST DOUBTFUL THAT UNSOBER/1 COULD DO
   PROGRAM ON CHILE THAT WOULD BE ACCEPTABLE TO BKHERALD (OR TO PINOCHET).

2. THEREFORE RECOMMEND SANTIAGO CONSIDER REF WITHIN CONFINES-
   OF STATION UNTIL RESULTS OF ELECTION KNOWN. IF MAJORITY CANDIDATE
   GISCARD D'ESTAING WINS CHE HAS SLIGHT LEAD IN POLLS), CLIMATE
   WILL BE EXCELLENT FOR FAVORABLE TREATMENT OF PINOCHET. IN THIS
   CASE, WOULD BE USEFUL TO HAVE RESPONSE TO REF BY COB 30 MAY TO
   COINCIDE WITH TOY TO PARIS OF HOS TOFUCUS OFFICER.

3. FILE: 201-872997. E-2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CABLE REC DISSEM BY 4 PER TOTAL COPIES 29-1
PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET RUN DY
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT BY RF FILE VR IPIAN. WH8 OSGloc STAFF
LURS 2 clops SSS
ACTION
T 133294 EIA672 PAGE 01 IN 253170
TOR:131542Z MAY 74 PARI 48390

SECRET 131335Z MAY 74 STAFF

CITE PARIS 48390

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO DIRECTOR.

YOFUCUS UNSOBER

REF: DIRECTOR 549349

1. IF SOCIALIST PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE FRANCOIS MITTERRAND
   IS ELECTED ON 19 MAY, IT MOST DOUBTFUL THAT UNSOBER/1 COULD DO
   PROGRAM ON CHILE THAT WOULD BE ACCEPTABLE TO BKHERALD (OR TO PINOCHET).

2. THEREFORE RECOMMEND SANTIAGO CONSIDER REF WITHIN CONFINES.
   OF STATION UNTIL RESULTS OF ELECTION KNOWN. IF MAJORITY CANDIDATE
   GISCARD D'ESTAING WINS (HE HAS SLIGHT LEAD IN POLLS), CLIMATE
   WILL BE EXCELLENT FOR FAVORABLE TREATMENT OF PINOCHET. IN THIS
   CASE, WOULD BE USEFUL TO HAVE RESPONSE TO REF BY COB 30 MAY TO
   COINCIDE WITH TOY TO PARIS OF HOS TOFUCUS OFFICER.

3. FILE: 221-872997. E-2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# SECRET 031429Z MAY 74 STAFF

CITE BONN BASE 31516

TO: DIRECTOR INFO BONN, PARIS.

CATHATCH: CAQUARRY TOFOCUS FUOYNX

REF: BONN BASE 31234 (IN 230053)

1.  1 MAY ZCF MAGAZIN WITH CAQUARRY AS MODERATOR CARRIED 15 MINUTE FEATURE ON CHILE, A THEME LONG DISCUSSED WITH CAQUARRY. MAIN PART FEATURE WAS INTERVIEW WITH SPD PARLIAMENTARIAN, FRIEDRICH BEERMANN (SUBJECT REF) WHO RECENTLY RETURNED FROM VISIT CHILE AND SPOKE WITH GENERAL PINOCHET. BEERMANN STRESSED THAT ALLENDE GOVERNMENT HAD RULED ILLEGALLY, CONDITIONS NOT AS BAD AS THEY SEEM AND THAT OVERALL CHILEAN POPULATION FAVORED ALLENDE'S OVERTHROW, SIGNIFICANCE IS THAT INTERVIEW WITH SPD POLITICIAN AND SPD. AS INFLUENCED BY ITS LEFT WING, HAS BEEN STRONGLY ANTI-JUNTA.

2.  HANS MATTHOEFER. LEFT WING SPD PARLIAMENTARIAN AND STATE SECRETARY FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION, HAS BEEN LEADING GERMAN OPPOSITION TO JUNTA AND ALSO TRYING BLOCK ECONOMIC AID. DRAWING ON FUARL/S BACKGROUND INFO (SEE EGN-5363, NOV 73) WE HAVE DISCUSSED MATTHOEFER IN DETAIL WITH CAQUARRY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

FORM 20706
11 JANG. 11 73

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES RUN BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITEI

ACTION UNIT RP FILE VR. STAFF

ACTION

T 122217 E14020 PAGE 22-02 IN 241838

TOF:1100242 MAY 74 BNNB 31516

QUESTIONING HIS MOTIVATION IN STRONG SUPPORT ALLENDE AND EVEN
STRONGER CONDEMNATION OF JUNTA, BY COINCIDENCE CAQUARRY ON
PER "CU" BASIS WITH MATTHOEFER (NOT FOR SAME POLITICAL IDEALS)
AND WELL AWARE MATTHOEFER BACKGROUND INVOLVMENT LEFT WING
ACTIVITIES. END OF CHILE FEATURE CARRIED STATEMENT BY CAQUARRY
THAT IT STRANGE MATTHOEFER CONDONED ALLENDE GOVT USE OF FORCE
AS NECESSARY WHILE HE IS PRESENTLY VOCIFEROUS IN CONDEMNING
JUNTA ACTIVITIES, STATEMENT SERVED EMPHASIZE SPD NON-OBJECTIVITY
IN DEALING WITH CHILE.

3. REQUEST TRACES ON MATTHOEFER. SUGGEST OPEN
   201 SINCE HE ONE OF MOST INFLUENTIAL LEFT WING SPDERS AND WILL
   UNDOUBTEDLY BE INVOLVED IN ANY FUTURE POKER STRUGGLES BETWEEN
   RIGHT AND LEFT WINGS OF SPD,

4. FILE: 221-2230705 X-REF 221- , E2 IMPDET
   WASH S/C NOTE: PARIS ADDED INFO ADDEE PER HOS REQUEST.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# CONFIDENTIAL

CITE HELSINKI 22455

TO: DIRECTOR INFO STOCKHOLM, SANTIAGO.

FUOMEN PSYCH

1. IN EVENT NOT ALREADY KNOWN TO ADDEES, CALL ATTENTION TO NEWLY PUBLISHED BOOK ON CHILE BY SWEDISH JOURNALIST/ AUTHOR ANDRES KUNG (UMLAUT "U") ENTITLED "TO SOW SOCIALISM AND REAP FASCISM", WHICH SEEMS UNUSUALLY BALANCED, COMING FROM YOUNG SWEDE. ACCORDING TO 1 MAY 74 REVIEW IN FINNISH SWEDISH=LANGUAGE DAILY "HUFVUDSTADSBLADET", KUNG--WHO VISITED CHILE BEFORE, DURING AND AFTER ALLENDE'S TIME--LABELS THE SWEDISH DEBATE ON CHILE AS "ONE-SIDED" AND ANALYSES IN DETAIL ALLENDE'S ECONOMIC POLICIES AND THE INCREASINGLY CRITICAL ECONOMIC PROBLEMS UNDER ALLENDE'S THREE YEARS, AND THE CONCOMITANT POLITICAL PROBLEMS THAT LED ALLENDE TO MEASURES WHICH WERE "INCOMPATIBLE WITH DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLES AND EXISTING LAWS". KUNG NOTES THAT "AGGRESSIVE CLASS POLITICS, WHETHER REACTIONARY OR REVOLUTIONARY, CAN BRING ABOUT A MOVE AGAINST A SOCIALIST OR FASCIST DICTATURE" BUT, HE ADDS, "NO CONDITION OR MISTAKE DURING ALLENDE'S TIME CAN BE USED AS EXCUSE FOR THE COUP


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY PER TOTAL COPIES RUN BY

CONFIDENTIA

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY IRGURO SLOTTED BY AT STAFF

ACTION UNIT RF FILE VR

ACTION # Z

077141 EA230 PAGE 02-02 IN 239973

TOR:021103Z MAY 74 HELS 22455

AND THE BLOODBATH THAT FOLLOWED".

2. KUNG (DP08: 1945, GAVLE, SWEDEN) IS FORMER (1969-72)
   EDITOR FOR SWEDISH RADIO'S "OBS". NOW LIVES IN MALMO. HAS
   PREVIOUSLY WRITTEN ON. INTER ALIA, LATIN AMERICA AND BALTIC
   STATES.

3. FILE DEFER, E2 IMPDET.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

FORM 30206
71 MFG. 11-73

CABLE SEC DISSEM 3/16 PER

TOTAL COPIES 25-1
SECRET

RUN BY
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THA
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITE

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

STAFF

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTER
BY
AT
1
4

ACTION UNIT
FILE: VR // EUR 3, SSS
2
5

INFO
Wil 7
3
6
ACTION

052272 E1A036 PAGE 01 IN 231132

TOR:231149Z APR 74 HAMB 24795

SECRET 232953Z APR 74 STAFF

CITE HAMBURG 24795 (SWARZCHILD ACTING)

TO: DIRECTOR INFO BONN, BONN BASE, SANTIAGO.

FUOMEN PSYCH CASPECIAL

REF: DIRECTOR 540262

1. WELCOME RECEIVING SPECIAL BRIEF FOR PURPOSES INDICATED IN REF.

2. RELUCTANT TO LEAVE MEDIA FIELD ON CHILE TO SOVIETS AND THEIR
   SUPPORTERS. SUGGEST THEREFORE HQS KEEP OPEN MIND ON SELECTIVE
   PLACEMENTS SHORT OF GENERAL PROPAGANDA SUPPORT OF CHILEAN REGIME.

3. SINCE WOMEN LIKELY TO CONTINUE PLAYING PIVOTAL ROLE IN
   FURTHER POLITICAL DEVELOPMENTS, BELIEVE THEIR VIEWS AND REACTIONS
   OUGHT BE GIVEN MORE PLAY. AS AN EXAMPLE. COULD POSSIBLY ENGINEER
   ARTICLE IN GERMAN MAGAZINE "DER STERN" (CIRCULATION 1.500.000),
   WHICH THUS FAR IN VANGUARD OF ANTI-JUNTA PROPAGANDA CAMPAIGN,
   THROUGH MRS. VERA VACEK.

4. FILE: 15-124-46/3. E2 IMPDET.

![image of handwritten notes]

RECORD COPY
SECRET

15-124-52
23 Apr 74


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 4

PERSON. UNIT NOTIFIED

SECRET

AGENCY MESSAGE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

ACTION UNIT
SS5

RF, FILE: IAN, EURS, WH8,
OSG/IC, S58, PS/EGY, CLOS

ACTION #

T 724892
PAGE 01

FOR 10410112 DEC 73

IN 104043

SECRET 6409212 DEC 73 STAFF

CITE HAMBURG 23918

TO: DIRECTOR INFO SANTIAGO, BONN,

MHCRUNCH CASPECIAL FUOMEN TOWITTY

1. BASE INTERESTED IN "DOS ANOS DE PENETRACION SOVIETICA EN CHILE" (PORTADA 39) AS VEHICLE TO ENLIGHTEN GERMAN AUDIENCE RE EXTENT OF SOVIET/CUBAN INFILTRATION OF SOCIO-ECONOMIC FABRIC OF CHILE.

2. STUDY COULD BE FLES-ED OUT TO ENCOMPASS POLITICO/MILITARY ASPECTS THIS PENETRATION, ESPECIALLY PERCEPTIONS GAINED BY TWO NAVAL PURCHASING MISSIONS. THE LAST VISITING USSR JUST PRIOR TO ALLENDE'S DOWNFALL WHEN CHILEAN NAVY REPS GIVEN RUNAROUND AND TREATED WITH BARE CIVILITY. IT MAY ALSO BE USEFUL TO MENTION THAT SOVIETS ARE ALLEGED TO HAVE OFFERED TO SUPPLY ALLENDE (NOT CHILEAN ARMED FORCES) WITH ARMAMENTS FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSE OF DEFENDING HIS REGIME. ALLENDE'S MOSCOW VISIT AND UNAVAILING PLEA FOR SOVIET SALVAGING OPERATION IS CRUCIAL ASPECT OF AMBIGUOUS SOVIET ROLE WHICH EUROPEAN LEFT HAS CONVENIENTLY SWEPT UNDER THE RUG.

3. REQUEST HQS COMMENTS RE FEASIBILITY OF TURNING OUT FINISHED PRODUCT TO MEET EUROPEAN REQUIREMENTS WHICH AT PRESENT PREEMPTED

RECORD COPY

04 DEC 73

15-12-52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

CABLE BFC DISSEM BY __________ PER __________ TOTAL COPIES __________ PIN BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED __________ SECRET __________ REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED __________ BY __________ AT __________ 2 __________ AGENCY MESSAGE
ACTION UNIT 1 RF, FILE. VR, 1
ACTION # N 2
O 3

1 724892 PAGE 02-02 IN 104043
TO FI 041011Z DEC 73 HAMB 23918

BY LEFTIST-GENERATED COPY ON CHILEAN DEVELOPMENTS. IF AFFIRMATIVE,
SHALL TAKE SOUNDINGS ABOUT AVAILABILITY OF SUITABLE DISTRIBUTION
VEHICLE.

4. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ON:

OMF: 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

CONF:

CITE:

121734Z

DIRECTOR

INFO: FILE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

464010

DISSEM BY:

TO: PRIORITY BRASILIA, MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, MONTEVIDEO, TOKYO, THE
HAGUE, ROME, BONN, HAMBURG, PARIS, LCPIPIT, LONDON, BERN INFO
SANTIAGO.

DOC. MICRO. SER.

NOV 1 1973

RYBAT FUOMEN FUORACLE

MICROFILMED

REF: DIRECTOR 465768

1. FOLLOWING OF INTEREST AS FOLLOW-UP TO REF.

2. ACCORDING WASHINGTON POST 12 OCTOBER, "THE BITTERNESS BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENTS OF CUBA AND CHILE ERUPTED INTO A BATTLE OF
   OBSENITIES AND THREATS LAST NIGHT, DISRUPTING A LATE SESSION OF THE
   GENERAL ASSEMBLY. AT HEIGHT OF THE DISTURBANCE, CUBAN FOREIGN
   MINISTER RAUL ROA CALLED THE CHILEAN REPRESENTATIVE A 'SON' OF A
   WHORE,' AND ANOTHER CUBAN DIPLOMAT REPORTEDLY DISPLAYED A PISTOL.

3. "DISPUTE BEGAN WHEN ROA DEVOTED MORE THAN HALF OF HIS SPEECH
   IN GENERAL DEBATE EARLIER IN THE DAY TO AN ATTACK ON THE NEU CHILEAN
   MILITARY JUNTA. CHILEAN AMBASSADOR RAUL BAZAN DAVILA TOOK PODIUM
   DURING THE NIGHT-TIME SESSION TO EXERCISE HIS RIGHT OF REPLY. JAZAN
   INSISTED THAT LATE PRESIDENT SALVADOR ALLENDE HAD COMMITTED SUICIDE
   AND SAID 'CASTROISM' MUST TAKE A LARGE PART OF THE BLAME.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

D-15-124-53

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RECORD COPY

COORO NATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

DATE TIME GROUP

121736Z

INFO: FILE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

464010

DISSEM BY:

PER

MITTED AND REGRETTED AN OFFICIAL FIGURE OF 581 DEATHS IN CONNECTION
WITH CHILEAN COUP, BUT ADDED THAT CHILEANS RESPECTED HUMAN LIFE,
WHILE 'IN CUBA, FIDEL CASTRO HIMSELF HAD, AS HIS DAILY PASTINE, THE
WATCHING OF EXECUTIONS BEFORE THE FIRING SQUAD UALL, TO WHICH HE
EVEN INVITED SOME OF THE DIPLOMATS....'

4. "AT THAT POINT ROA ROSE FROM HIS SEAT AND DASHED DOWN THE
   AISLE TOWARD THE ROSTRUM, SHOUTING 'FAG', 'SONG OF A WHORE' AND OTHER
   INSULTS AT BAZAN, IN SPANISH. OTHER CUBANS FOLLOWED HIM. NICARAGUAN
   DELEGATION, SEATED IN FRONT NEAR ROSTRUM, ROSE TO BLOCK THE CUBANS.
   OTHER LATINS FLOCKED TO FRONT OF THE HALL. A DIPLOMAT WHO WAS THERE
   SAID A CUBAN SHOWED HE WAS CARRYING A PISTOL IN A CONFRONTATION WITH
   PARAGUAYAN AMBASSADOR FRANCISCO BARREIRO.....

5. " U.N. GUARDS SWARMED TO THE ROSTRUM AND THE CUBANS DISPERSED.
   ROA RESUMED HIS SEAT LATER. FIVE LATIN AMERICANS CAME TO THE ROSTRUM
   LATER TO CALL THE CUBANS 'GANGSTERS' AND CHALLENGED THE RIGHT OF A
   DICTATORSHIP TO CRITICIZE THEIR GOVERNMENTS. U.S. AMBASSADOR JOHN A.
   SCALI SAID ROA 'HAS ONCE AGAIN SUNK TO HIS USUAL LEVEL OF GUTTER
   VULGARITY... THE OUTMODED VITUPERATION OF AN EARLIER ERA."

DATE:

ORIG:..

UNIT:

EXT:

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTRAUS TO.

OME 0 0 0 0 -0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TIME GROUP

121737Z

CONF:

INFO: FILE

6. FILE: 15-124-52; 15-124-53. E2; IMPDET.H

*REF ATTACHED.

MESSAGE REFACE UNDER

466010

DISSEM BY:

PER

DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1973

ORIG: WILLIAM M. KENT:SMB

UNIT: ADC/WH/L

EXT: 6556/915S

C/UH/SA

C/EUR

EA/JK/J

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED

SECRET

15-124-52

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

![signal center use indicators]

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

112254Z

CONF: 8 INFO: FILE: 8/15/PN) / ofance: 6/15/09
1/553 / 139

![Doc Micro Ser Nov 1 1973 Microfilmed]

DIRECTOR

465760

DISSEM BY:

RETURN TO PER

TO: PRIORITY BRASILIA, MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, MONTEVIDEO, TOKYO, THE HAGUE, ROME, BONN, HAMBURG, PARIS, LCPIPIT, LONDON, BERN INFO SANTIAGO.

RYDAT FUOMEN FUORACLE HP

1. SINCE CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER'S APPEARANCE BEFORE UNGA HAS RECEIVED LIMITED PRESS PLAY, BELIEVE FOLLOWING MAY BE USEFUL TO ADDRESSEES FOR BRIEFING LOCAL GOVERNMENT. MEDIA AND OTHER CONTACTS WHO MAY BE INTERESTED IN CHILEAN SITUATION. MATERIAL IS LARGELY OVERT, THEREFORE NO OBJECTION TO ITS USE BY PRESS ASSETS SO LONG AS STORY NOT PASSED OR USED VERBATIM.

2. ON 9 OCTOBER CHILEAN FOREIGN MINISTER VICE-ADMIRAL ISMAEL HUERTA APPEARED FOR ONE AND ONE-HALF HOUR PRESENTATION BEFORE UNGA TO EXPLAIN "FACTS WHICH OBLIGED ARMED FORCES AND POLICE TO TAKE CONTROL OF THE GOVERNMENT AND TO ESTABLISH A REGIME OF NATIONAL RESTORATION," AND TO CHARGE THAT HIS GOVERNMENT HAD BECOME VICTIM OF A "HOST FALSE, MOST MALEVOLENT, MOST VICIOUS AND VERY WELL-ORCHESTRATED CAMPAIGN."

3. HUERTA'S SPEECH STRESSED THAT ALLENDE'S MINORITY REGIME HAD

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

D-15-124-53

![Coordinate officer indicators]

WH/6

4
015
3

11 oct 73
15-124-52

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PAGE 2 OF PAGES

CONF: INFO: FILE

445748

BEEN STEERING COUNTRY IN DIRECTION OF A TOTALITARIAN TAKEOVER
INSTIGATED AND SUPPORTED LARGELY BY CUBA; THAT CUBA INTERVENED IN
CHILEAN INTERNAL AFFAIRS WHILE SECRETLY INFILTRATING ARMS.
INSTRUCTORS AND PERSONNEL FOR PARAMILITARY GROUPS; INTENDED TO BECOME
A "PARALLEL" ARMY TO OPPOSE ARMED FORCES; THAT CHILEAN MILITARY ACTED
ONLY AFTER FAILURE OF ALL OTHER EFFORTS BY PARLIAMENT, JUDICIARY,
PROFESSIONALS AND WORKERS TO BLOCK DRIFT TOWARD CIVIL WAR AND CHAOS.
HE STRESSED THAT HIS GOVT IS NOT POLITICALLY AMBITIOUS AND ITS GOAL
IS TO SET CHILE BACK ON ITS HISTORIC PATH; AFTER GOAL ACHIEVED, "WE
WILL NOT HESITATE TO RETURN TO OUR BARRACKS AND TO OUR SHIPS."

4. HUERTA ACKNOWLEDGED THAT ALLENDE REGIME, THE FIRST ELECTED
   MARXIST GOVT IN WESTERN HEMISPHERE, HAD AROUSED ENTHUSIASM IN
   MANY, BUT "IT IS ONE THING, GENTLEMEN, TO EVALUATE A FOREIGN
   EXPERIENCE FROM AFAR, SEATED IN COMFORTABLE ARMCHAIRS OR IN DISCUSSION
   AROUND A WELL-SERVED TABLE. IT IS QUITE ANOTHER TO LIVE IT." HE DE-
   TAILED A HISTORY OF EVENTS OF LAST THREE YEARS, POINTING OUT THAT
   DESPITE AGREEMENTS BY ALLENDE REGIME, LATTER MOVED TO UNDERMINE
   EXISTING JUDICIAL AND POLITICAL MACHINERY OF COUNTRY, ATTEMPTING DO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

OUTGOING MESSAGE:

SIGNAL CAPITEN USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGS HANDLING ROCAMR

CONF: FILE INFO: FILE 445748

AWAY WITH DEMOCRATIC IDEALS FOR WHICH COUNTRY STOOD. HE SAID MEDIA
WAS HARASSED, THERE WERE ILLEGAL INDUSTRIAL AND AGRARIAN TAKEOVERS,
POLITICANS AND VILLAGERS WERE ASSASSINATED. HE CHARGED THAT
FOREIGN AGENTS, SENT PRINCIPALLY BY CUBA, HAD SECRETLY BROUGHT
ENOUGH UEAPONS TO CHILE TO EQUIP 20.000 MEN. HE DECLARED THAT
SOVIET-MADE SIDEARMS, MACHINE GUNS, ANTITAUNK GUNS, ROCKET LAUNCHERS.
CANNONS AND EXPLOSIVES HAD BEEN SHIPPED IN SOME PACKED AS WORKS
OF ART AND SOME DISGUISED AS GIFTS FROM FIDEL CASTRO.

5. AT ONE POINT, TO SUPPORT CLAIM OF CUBAN INVOLVEMENT, HUERTA
   READ TEXT OF 29 JULY 1973 HAND-WRITTEN LETTER FROM CASTRO ADDRESSED
   TO "DEAR SALVADOR." LETTER ASSURED ALLENDE THAT CHILEAN WORKING
   CLASS HAD BEEN FOREWARNED AND WAS "READY FOR ACTION" IF HIS REGIME
   WERE THREATENED. HUERTA SAID THAT LETTER CLEARLY DEMONSTRATED
   CUBA'S INTERVENTION IN CHILEAN POLITICS AND HER SUPPORT OF THE
   "ILLEGAL METHODS" OF THE ALLENDE REGIME.

6. IN VITRIOLIC REPLY TO HUERTA, CUBAN FOREIGN MINISTER RAUL
   ROA CALLED HUERTA "TRAITOROUS EX-MINISTER OF ALLENDE AND SERGEANT OF
   GOEBBLES." SIMILAR LIES AND DISTORTIONS OF FACT CAN BE FOUND IN

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGE COI ACP TOG TPS
OMF 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

PAGE 4 OF PAGES 4

CONF: INFO: FILE CITE: 465768

DISSEM BY:

HISTORY OF NASI GERMANY, HE DECLARED. THEN, SURPRISINGLY. HE WENT ON TO GIVE SUBSTANCE TO HUERTA'S CHARGES BY ADMITTING THAT CUBAN GUNS HAD IN FACT BEEN SENT INTO CHILE BUT THAT THEY HAD BEEN SENT AT ALLENDE'S REQUEST. NOR DID ROA DENY THE AUTHENTICITY OF CASTRO'S LETTER TO ALLENDE WHICH HUERTA HAD PRODUCED; ROA SAID THAT THE LETTER WAS NO SECRET.

7. FILE: 15-124-52; 15-124-53. E2C; IMPDET.

DATE: 11 OCTOBER 1973

ORIG: WILLIAM M. KENT:SM8

UNIT: ADC/WH/6

EXT: 6556/9155

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ORIG 0 0 0 0 0 0
PAGE 1 OF 1 PAGES

SECRET

STAFF

CONF C/UHS INFO: FILE 131508Z DIRECTOR 456203

FILE 11P/AN, DIDC/100 DISSEM BY: 29

0 NOMES C/553, C/DS/ECS PER

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REFS: A. SANTIAGO 26489 [IN 031350]

B. SANTIAGO 26512 [IN 031722]

1. PROPOSE USE REFS FOR FUOMEN. PLEASE ADVISE CONCURRENCE AND CAVEATS.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET.

*REFS ATTACHED.

DATE: 13 SEPTEMBER 1973

ORIG: UILLIAM M. KEIT: SMB

UNIT: ADC/UH/6

EXT: 6556/9155

![photo of wh/6 CT-Y]

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: C/5531


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

STAFF

**SECRET**

DATE TIME GROUP: 131911Z

DIRECTOR

454567

IMMEDIATE ARGENTINA, LA PAZ, BRASILIA, BOGOTA, SAN JOSE, SANTO DOMINGO, QUITO, MIAMI, GUATEMALA CITY, GEORGETOWN, PORT AU PRINCE, TEGUCIGALPA, KINGSTON, MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA, PANAMA CITY, ASUNCION, LIMA, SAN SALVADOR, PORT AU SPAIN, MONTEVIDEO, CARACAS

INFO PRIORITY SANTIAGO.

BOOOK CABLE

FUOMEN SUMMARY OF COUP EVENTS

1. FOLLOWING IS FOR YOUR BACKGROUND AND FOR PASSING LOCAL AUTHORITIES AS YOU SEE FIT:

2. FOUR-MAN MILITARY JUNTA THAT REVOLTED AGAINST MARXIST REGIME OF SALVADOR ALLENDE ON 11 SEPTEMBER HAS GAINED FULL CONTROL OF THE COUNTRY, WITH EXCEPTION OF POCKETS OF RESISTANCE IN CAPITAL. ON 12 SEPT THERE WAS FIRGHTING IN DOWNTOWN SANTIAGO BETWEEN TROOPS AND SNIPERS HOLED UP IN GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS AND IN INDUSTRIAL AREAS WHERE ALLENDE SUPPORTERS WERE BARRICADED IN FACTORIES. SPORADIC FIRING AND EXPLOSIONS WERE HEARD THROUGHOUT DAY AND NIGHT BUT STRICT CURFEW KEPT OBSERVERS FROM WITNESSING ACTION. CURFEW EXTENDED TO NOON 13 SEPT.

3. AUTHORITIES ESTIMATED DEATH TOLL TO BE OVER 250 MILITARY

![RECORD COPY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

CONF:

0 NO INDEE

0 RETURN TO

0 UP RES

INFO: FILE

DATE TIME GROUP

CITE

PAGE 2

OF PAGES

DISSEM BY:

454587

PER #

AND CIVILIANS. THEY EXPECTED TO ELIMINATE LAST POCKETS RESISTANCE
BY 14 SEPTEMBER.

3. JUNTA-CONTROLLED RADIO STATIONS AND ONE TV STATION
   OPERATING. PUBLIC UTILITIES ARE FUNCTIONING NORMALLY. NEWSPAPERS
   PLANNED RESUME LIMITED EDITIONS 13 SEPT BUT ARE SUBJECT TO CENSOR-
   SHIP.

4. JUNTA ANNOUNCED THAT PRESIDENT ALLENDE COMMITTED SUICIDE
   IN LA MONEDA AND TROOPS ENTERING THE BUILDING FOUND HIS BODY IN A
   DINING ROOM.

5. JUNTA TV PROGRAM SHOWED LARGE QUANTITIES OF SOVIET MADE
   AUTOMATIC WEAPONS COLLECTED AT LA MONEDA AND AT ALLENDE RESIDENCE
   ON TOMAS MORO STREET AFTER FIGHTING.

6. JUNTA PRESIDED OVER BY GEN. AUGUSTO PINOCHET (ARMY), AN
   INTELLIGENT, PROFESSIONAL OFFICER WITH NO KNOWN POLITICAL TIES:
   ADMIRAL JOSE MERINO (NAVY), WHO IS INCLINED TOWARDS NATIONAL PARTY
   (CONSERVATIVE); GEN. GUSTAVO LEIGH (AIR FORCE), A STRONG LEADER
   WHO FORMER SUPPORTER RADICAL PARTY AND KNOWN TO DISLIKE CHRISTIAN
   DEMOCRATS; AND GENERAL CESAR MENDOZA, (CARABINERO CHIEF) WHO HAS

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

REPRODUCED BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PRO

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

VED E-2 IMPDET
CL F4575SE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

**SECRET**

CONF: INFO: FILE

454587

CLOSE TIES TO MILITARY AND APPARENTLY HELPED PLAN COUP.

7. JUNTA NAMED FOLLOWING CABINET 12 SEPT:

*   MINISTER OF INTERIOR - MAJ GEN OSCAR BONILLA (ARMY),
    WHO SERVED AS PRESIDENT FREI'S SENIOR MILITABRY AIDE FOR
    TWO YEARS.
*   MINISTER OF FOREIGN RELATIONS - REAR ADMIRAL ISMAEL
    HUERTA (NAVY), HIGHLY RESPECTED IN NAVY AND ONE OF
    INTELLECTUAL LEADERS OF COUP.
*   MINISTER OF ECONOMY - MAJ GEN ROLANDO GONZALEZ (ARMY),
    REPORTED TO BE A U.P. SUPPORTER ABOUT 1971.
*   MINISTER OF EDUCATION - JOSE NAVARRO TOBAR, A
    CIVILIAN BIOLOGY AND BOTANY PROFESSOR OF UNKNOWN POLITICS.
*   MINISTER OF JUSTICE - GONZALO PRIETO GANDARA, CIVILIAN
    LAWYER.
*   MINISTER OF DEFENSE - VICE ADM. PATRICIO CARVAJAL,
    FORMERLY CHIEF OF NATIONAL DEFENSE STAFF, REPORTED
    INVOLVED IN ANTI-GOVERNMENT ACTIVITIES AS EARLY AS 1971.
*   MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORTATION - BRIG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

*SECRET*.

CONF: INFO: FILE

454587 DISSEM BY:
PER

GEN SERGIO FIGUEROA (AIR FORCE), REPORTED IN EARLY 1972
TO BE AMONG ANTI-U.P. AIR FORCE COLONELS.

MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE COL SERGIO CRESPO (RET. AIR
FORCE), AGRICULTURAL AND CIVIL ENGINEER.

MINISTER OF LABOR GEN MARIO MACKAY (CARABINEROS),
ANTI-U.P. OFFICER NAMED IN JULY AS COMMANDER IN CONCEP-
CION.

MINISTER OF PUBLIC HEALTH COL ALBERTO SPOERER (AIR
FORCE), FORMER CIVILIAN SURGEON DESCRIBED AS HARD
WORKER.

MINISTER OF MINING GEN ARTURO YOVANE (CARABINEROS),
WHO WAS SCHEDULDED TO BE RETIRED BY ALLENDE IN AUGUST,
CLOSE TO MILITARY.

MINISTER OF HOUSING BRIG GEN ARTURO VIVERO, HARD-
WORKING STAFF OFFICER WHOSE PERFORMANCE UNDER PRESSURE
SOMEWHAT WEAK.

SECRETARY GENERAL OF GOVERNMENT - COL PEDRO EWING
(ARMY), DESCRIBED AS INTELLIGENT, PATRIOTIC, CONSERVATIVE.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMFO 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET.

CONF:

INFO: FILE

454587

UNDERSECRETARY OF INTERIOR - LTH COL ENRIQUE MONTERO (AIR FORCE) FORMER LEGAL OFFICER IN AIR FORCE.

MINISTER OF LANDS AND COLONIZATION - GEN DIEGO PARRA RETIRED CARABINERO OFFICER, ON WHOM LITTLE IS KNOWN.

MINISTER OF FINANCE - REAR ADM LORENZO ORTUZAR. LITTLE KNOWN OFFICER.

8. JUNTA HAS BROKEN RELATIHONS WITH CUBA AND WILL PROBABLY BREAK WITH OTHER SOVIET BLOC STATES. IT WILL PROBABLY ENDEAVOR STRENGTHEN TRADITIONALLY FRIENDLY TIES WITH U.S. AND SEEK AID AND DEBT RELIEF FOR INTERIM.

9. JUNTA WILL PROBABLY DECLARE COMMUNIST, SOCIALIST AND SMALL LEFTIST PARTIES SUCH AS MIR ILLEGAL AND DISSOLVE CUT LABOR CONFEDERA-TION. THEY DO NOT PLAN WORK WITH POLITICAL PARTIES BUAT MAY CONSULT WITH THEM. THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY IS EXPECTED TO EXPRESS SUPPORT FOR THE JUNTA AS IS THE OTHER MAJOR OPPOSITION POLITICAL GROUP, NATIONAL PARTY. STRIOKING TRUCKERS AND PROFESSIONAL GUILDS HAVE EXPRESSED SATISFACTION WITH COUP AND CALLED OFF STRIKE.

10. FILE: 15-124-52. E 2, IMPDET.
    DATE: 13 SEPTEMBER 1973
    ORIG: WILLIAM CLYONE DSO
    UNIT: C/WH/6/RR/
    EXT: 7710/1069


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF

SECRET

STAFF

TO: HAMBURG INFO SANTIAGO, BONN.Y

FUOMEN PSYCH CASPECIAL Y

REF: RANGERUG 24759 (IN 225631) Y

1. AT THIS POINT DO NOT BELIEVE BKHERALD ATTEMPT IMPROVE CHILEAN IMAGE IN GERMAN MEDIA STANDS MUCH CHANCE OF SUCCESS. PREFER LET DENIGRATION CAMPAIGN RUN ITS COURSE. WE WOULD BE WILLING SUPPLY SPECIAL BRIEF DESIGNED TO INFLUENCE CAREFULLY SELECTED INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE OPEN TO PERSUASION AND WHOSE VIEWS WOULD CARRY REAL WEIGHT, BUT WE DO NOT FEEL BKHERALD SHOULD ENGAGE IN GENERAL PROPAGANDA SUPPORT OF CHILEAN REGIME SINCE LATTER APPROACH BOTH INEFFECTUAL AND MIGHT WELL BACKFIRE.Y

2. FILE: 15-124-46/3. E2 IMPDET-A

[Figure: Stamp with handwritten annotations]

[Figure: Handwritten annotations and a "RECORD COPY" stamp]

DATE: 18 APRIL 1974

ORIG: KEITH GARDINER:NO

UNIT: DC/UH/6

EXT: 6556/9155

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

SECRET 1712532 APR 74 STAFF

CITE HAMBURG 24759

TO: DIRECTOR INFO BONN, SANTIAGO.

FUOMEN PSYCH CASPECIAL

1. CHIL'S IMAGE AS REFLECTED IN WEST GERMAN MEDIA COMMENTARIES HAS REACHED ALL-TIME LOW AND EVEN CONSERVATIVELY INCLINED OUTLETS BY AND LARGE, NO LONGER BOTHER TO TELL "THE OTHER SIDE." EASTERN RADIO STATIONS MAINTAIN RELENTLESS DRUMFIRE OF ANTI-CHILEAN PROPAGANDA AND THERE NO APPARENT DEARTH OF INFO TO SUSTAIN RATHER EFFECTIVE DENIGRATION CAMPAIGN.

2. IN SPITE OF DISMAL AUSPICES TO TURN TIDE, (UNLESS JUNTA DECIDES TO SHOW SOME DECENT REGARD FOR OPINIONS OF MANKIND), WE CAN STILL PROMOTE FAIRER UNDERSTANDING OF IMPERATIVES OF CHILEAN SITUATION TO WHICH JUNTA APPARENTLY FEELS IMPELLED TO RESPOND. TOWARD THAT END. REQUIRE SOME TYPE OF OBJECTIVE APPRAISAL OF RECENT DEVELOPMENTS AND OF PREDICTABLE TRENDS.

3. FILE DEFER. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

CABLE SEC DISSEM
PERSON, UNIT NOTIFIED: WM CID
TOTAL COPIES 17-2
SECRET
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED: WH
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AGENCY MESSAGE
ACTION UNIT: N
RF. FILE. VR: /C/CA3 /F2
1
4
ACTION:
2
5
3
6
144267 PRECEDENCE
PAGE 01-01
IN 880779
TOR: 0421402 APR 73
SAGO 24516
SECRET 0421182 APR 73 STAFF
CITE SANTIAGO 24516
TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.
REFSI A. SANTIAGO 24477 (in 978105)
B. DIRECTOR 391223
1. IN VIEW OF THE POSSIBLE REPERCUSSIONS REF A INFO IF IT WERE SURFACED OR IF IT CAME TO THE ATTENTION OF THE U.P. GOVERNMENT, STATION RECOMMENDS AGAINST FUOMEN EXPLOITATION AT THIS TIME.
2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2 IMPDET

RECORD COPY
SECRET

15-124-52
04 APR 73


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

CABLE SEC DISSEM DV

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
Cl/WH8
ACTION #
FILE VR Hfelas PSRG 9553
9014 APS/663
T 627548

PAGE 01
IN 135804
TOR:1417172 JAN 74
SAGO 27899

SECRET 1415502 JAN 74 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 27899

TO: DIRECTOR, PARIS, HELSINKI, BONN, TOKYO, LONDON,
RYBAT FUUMEN

REF: DIRECTOR 499469 -15-124-52

1. WISH TO OFFER FOLLOWING SUGGESTED CHANGES IN REF
   WHICH BASED ON LATEST INFO AVAILABLE LOCALLY. PARA 31

"...CENTRAL BANK DEVALUED THE ESCUDO FOR IMPORTS/EXPORTS BY
SLIGHTLY OVER 120 PERCENT IN AN EFFORT TO CURB IMPORT DEMAND,
ENCOURAGE EXPORTS AND EASE PRESSURES..." "...OTHER PRICE RISES
BROUGHT INFLATION FOR THE YEAR TO 508 PERCENT..." (FOR DIRECTOR:
WHILE PREVIOUS ESTIMATES BY BOTH EMBASSY AND IMF IN NOVEMBER
PLACED INFLATION FOR THE KEAR AT PROBABLY BETWEEN 750 AND 800
PERCENT. THE END-OF-THE-YEAR FIGURE OF THE NATIONAL STATISTICAL
INSTITUTE WAS 506.1 SEE SANTIAGO EMBASSY TELEGRAM 0173
OF 11 JANUARY.)

2. PARA 4 LAST SENTENCE SHOULD READ "THE MASSIVE 3.5
   BILLION DOLLAR FUREIGN DEST..." PARA 7: "MONTHLY COPPER
   PRODUCTION HAS ALREADY INCREASED MORE THAN 56 PERCENT OVER
   THE AVERAGE DURING THE FIRST NINE MONTHS OF 1973 AND PRODUCTION

SECRET

RECORD COPY

15-124-52
14 Ja..74

|        | TRAVEL PROGRAM   |
| ------ | ---------------- |
| OYEM   | ABSTRACT         |
| LF, P  | FTA              |
|        | FROMME FOR FLANS |
| ES/SCE | BEST             |
|        | GAB BER (11)     |
| PLZ/S  | (8)              |
|        | CT-4             |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

CAULE SEC DISSEM BY PER

TOTAL COPIES RUN BY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED SECRET

REPRODUCTION OY OTHER THAN
JOBUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ADVANCE. COPY IBBUED SLOTTER BY AT STAFF

ACTION UNIT RF. FILE VR

1 4
N
2 5
ACTION # FO
3 6

T 307548 PAGE 22-22 IN 136804

TOR:1417172 JAN 74 SAGO 27899

WILL PROBABLY REACH A RECORD OF AT LEAST 850,000 TONS IN 1974..."

3. NU FILE, E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

STAFF

CONF. c/uH8 INFO: FILE c. 1553, c/ps/e63

DATE TIME GROUP

111951Z

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

497469

DISSEM BY:5

TO: PARIS, HELSINKI, BONN, TOKYO, LONDON INFO SANTIAGO.

RYBAT FUOMEN

1. FOLLOWING SUMMARY OF POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC SITUATION IN CHILE AT BEGINNING OF 1974 MAY BE USEFUL FOR ORAL BRIEFINGS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT AND OTHER HIGH LEVEL CONTACTS WHO INTERESTED IN CHILE STIPULATION NO FURTHER EXPLOITATION.

2. THE OUTLOOK FOR CHILE IS CAUTIOUSLY OPTIMISTIC. THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT HAS AVOIDED MAJOR INTERNAL CONFLICTS AND HAS MOVED AGGRESSIVELY TO REORGANIZE GOVERNMENT AGENCIES MORE EFFICIENTLY, TO CREATE AN APOLITICAL CIVIL SERVICE, AND TO CORRECT THE EXCESSES OF NEARLY THREE YEARS OF DECAPITALIZATION UNDER STATE SOCIALISM. ITS ECONOMIC PROGRAMS, ALTHOUGH AUSTERE, ARE SOUND AND OFFER A FIRM FOUNDATION FOR RECOVERY AND GROWTH OF THE CHILEAN ECONOMY. THE STRICT SECURITY MEASURES ADOPTED BY THE JUNTA HAVE BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN PREVENTING ANY LARGE-SCALE VIOLENCE OR TERRORISM AND ARE LIKELY TO BE CONTINUED FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE.

3. THE JUNTA MOVED QUICKLY AFTER THE COUP OF 11 SEPTEMBER TO REMOVE PRICE CONTROLS ON ALL BUT 30 BASIC COMMODITIES, WHILE THE

RECORD COPY

11 Jan 74

15-124-52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

ONF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TING GROUP

DIRECTOR

STAFF

CONF:

INFO: FILE

499969

CENTRAL BANK DEVALUED THE ESCUDO BY SOME L0% IN AN EFFORT TO CURB IMPORT DEMAND AND EASE PRESSURES ON THE COUNTRY'S MEAGER FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES. AS A RESULT, CHILE'S COST OF LIVING JUMPED 88% IN OCTOBER, AND OTHER PRICE RISES PUSHED INFLATION TO SOME 770% FOR THE YEAR.

4. THE JUNTA HAS NOW AGREED TO FOLLOW THE STABILIZATION PROGRAM PROPOSED BY AN IMF TEAN WHICH VISITED CHILE IN LATE 1973.

THIS PROGRAM CALLS FOR TIGHTER FEDERAL SPENDING AND FOR LIMITING INFLATION TO 100% IN 1974. THIS IMF PROGRAM IS FEASIBLE BUT MAY BE SOMEWHAT OVER-OPTIMISTIC, ESPECIALLY SINCE THE WORLD-WIDE ENERGY CRISIS WILL SOON FORCE CHILE TO RAISE FUEL PRICES, THUS EXACCER- BATING THE PROBLEM OF CONTROLLING INFLATION. ADHERENCE TO THE IMF PROPOSAL HAS, HOWEVER, IMPROVED CHILE'S COREDIT RATING, AS HAS THE SIGNING OF A BILATERAL AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED STATES ON CHILE'S 1971-1972 DEBT. CHILE IS THUS IN A RELATIVELY GOOD POSITION FOR THE OPENING OF THE PARIS CLUB TALKS IN FEBRUARY. THE MASSIVE $4 BILLION DOLLAR FOREIGN DEBT, HOWEVER, WILL CAUSE CHILE BALANCE OF BALANCE-OF-PAYMENTS PROBLEMS FOR SOME TIME.

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

SECRET

STAFF

DATE TIME GROUP

INFO: FILE

PAGE 3 OF PAGES

DIRECTOR

DISSEM BY:

RETURN TO PER

1199469

7. COPPER PRODUCTION HAS ALREADY INCREASED MORE THAN 50% OVER. LAST YEAR'S LEVEL AND PRODUCTION WILL PROBABLY REACH A RECORD 750,000 TONS IN 1974 DESPITE SPORADIC SHORTAGES OF SPARE PARTS AND SERVICEABLE VEHICLES. FARM OUTPUT, HOWEVER, IS NOT EXPECTED TO RECOVER FULLY UNTIL THE 1974/75 HARVEST SO THAT AGRICULTURAL IMPORTS, PARTICULARLY GRAIN, WILL CONTINUE TO BE A DRAIN ON CHILE'S FOREIGN RESERVES.

8. THE JUNTA HAS DEMONSTRATED GOOD FAITH IN THE TREATMENT OF FOREIGN EQUITY AND HAS LINED UP SUFFICIENT FOREIGN CREDITS TO ENABLE IT TO PURCHASE CAPITAL GOODS AND FINANCE THE CURRENT PAYMENTS GAP. THE GOVERNMENT HAS ALSO UNDERTAKEN TO SETTLE OUT-STANDING COMPENSATION CLAIMS EMANATING FROM ALLENDE NATIONALIZATIONS, STATING THAT IT WILL EITHER RETURN INTERVENED FIRMS TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR, OR AS IN THE CASE OF LARGE COPPER MINES, ADEQUATELY COMPENSATE PREVIOUS OWNERS. FORMER PRIVATE BANKS WILL ALSO BE RETURNED TO THEIR FORMER OUNERS, BUT PROBABLY WITH SOME FORMULA INVOLVING WORKER PARTICIPATION IN BANK MANAGEMENT. THERE ARE ALSO STRONG INDICATIONS OF RENEWED INVESTOR CONFIDENCE, AND PRIVATE

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR

499469

FOREIGN INVESTMENT IN CHILE IS EXPECTED TO GROU SUBSTANTIALLY DURING 1974.

9. INTERNALLY, THE ELIMINATION OF PRICE CONTROLS AND ADJUST- MENT OF EXCHANGE RATE HAS PRACTICALLY ELIMINATED THE ONCE FLOURISH- ING BLACK MARKETS IN COMMODITIES AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE. HOWEVER, THE BURDEN OF AUSTERITY ON CHILEAN CONSUMERS HAS BEEN HEAVY. DESPITE HEALTHY INCREASES IN WAGES AND RENEWED CONFIDENCE BY BUSINESSMEN, WORKING CLASS CONSUMERS FIND IT DIFFICULT TO AFFORD THE BAREST NECESSITIES, AND WORKING CLASS LABOR IS TAKING A WAIT AND SEE ATTITUDE. THERE IS, HOWEVER, NO ORGANIZED RESISTANCE TO THE JUNTA OR ITS PROGRAMS. SOME POLITICAL FACTIONS, PARTICULARLY THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PDC) ARE GRUMBLING, BUT THIS DISSATIS- FACTION IS LARGELY DUE TO GOVERNMENT EFFORTS TO SET UP NEU NON- POLITICAL-PARTY MECHANISMS FOR REACHING THE PUBLIC.

10. GOVERNMENT "RECESSING" OF CONGRESS AND ALL POLITICAL PARTIES HAS CREATED A POLITICAL VACUUM IN CHILE. THE GOVERNMENT, WHICH HOLDS THE POLITICAL PARTIES LARGELY RESPONSIBLE FOR CHILE'S CURRENT PLIGHT, IS TRYING TO FILL THIS VOID EY AN INTENSE USE OF


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

OUTGOING ESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE ACP 708 MRO

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE FING GROUP

CITE

DIRECTOR

PAウラ

5

MESSAGE REFERENCE FRUMDER

0 PIDE &

0 NO MOR'S DISSEM BY:

0 ASTUNN 10 PER

499469

0 IP PRES 18

CIVILIAN ADVISERS TO ASSIST THE GOVERNMENT MINISTRIES. THIS PHENOMENON IS MOST APPARENT IN THE AREAS OF ECONOMIC POLICY AND IN SUCH TECHNICAL FIELDS AS PUBLIC HEALTH AND HOUSING. THE IMPORTANCE OF THE GROUP OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS HEADED BY RAUL SAEZ, FOR EXAMPLE IS WELL KNOWN. THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH HAS AN ADVISORY BOARD DOMINATED BY THE MEDICAL ASSOCIATION, WHILE THE MINISTRY OF HOUSING'S BOARD IS LARGELY CONTROLLED BY THE ORGANIZATION REPRESENT- ING PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION FIRMS. SIMILARLY, ALMOST EVERY MINISTRY AND MANY AUTONOMOUS AGENCIES HAVE PERMANENT CIVILIAN ADVISORY BOARDS COMPOSED OF REPRESENTATIVES OF GROUPS WHOSE WELFARE IS AFFECTED BY THE AGENCY'S ACTIVITIES.

11. IN ADDITION TO THESE CIVILIAN ADVISORY BOARDS, THERE ARE A LARGE NUMBER OF "STUDY COMMISSIONS" THROUGH WHICH CIVILIANS CAN EXERT THEIR INFLUENCE. BEST KNOWN OF THESE IS THE GROUP IF INTER- NATIONAL LAWYERS WHICH IS DRAFTING A NEW CONSTITUTION, BUT THERE ARE OTHER GROUPS WORKING ON A NEW MINING CODE, STUDYING THE EDUCA- TIONAL SYSTEM, COLLECTING INFORMATION ON URECHMPLOYMENT, URITING A STATUTE FOR WORKER PARTICIPATION IN BUSINESS ENTERPRISES, AND

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

OFLEASING OFFICER

COOBONG OFFICERS

CLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

SECRET

BUTHENTICATING OFF

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 07556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE COI ALP TOG TPE NNO

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

IN SLAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE TIME GROUP

CITE

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

0

INDER DISSEM BY:

0

NO INDEE

0

RETURN TO PER

0

UP FILES

# DELVING INTO A DOZEN OTHER TOPICS.

499449

12. ALTHOUGH SOME CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS HOLD INFLUENTIAL GOVERN- MENT POSITIONS, MOST CIVILIAN ADVISERS ARE EITHER CONSERVATIVE OR APOLITICAL. LACK OF MORE WIDESPREAD PARTICIPATION BY CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATS MAY CREATE PROBLEMS FOR THE GOVERMENT IN THE FUTURE, ESPECIALLY SINCE ORGANIZATIONS REPRESENTING WORKERS, CAMPESINOS AND POBLADORES (WHICH FORMERLY SUPPORTED EITHER THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PDC) OR THE ALLENDE GOVERNMENT) ARE SO FAR INADEQUATELY REPRESENTED ON ADVISORY COUNCILS. THE GOVERNMENT HAS ESTABLISHED UNITS ADDRESSED TO YOUTH, WOMEN, GUILDS AND NEIGHBOR- HOOD CIVIC GROUPS IN THE SECRETARIAT GENERAL OF GOVERNMENT, AND HOPES THAT THESE WILL SERVE AS VEHICLES FOR GOVERNMENT-TO-PEOPLE COMMUNICATION.

13. THE JUNTA LEADERS VIEW WITH DISTRUST ALL PDC EFFORTS TO WIN NEU POLITICAL ADHERENTS FRON THE WORKING CLASSES WHICH FORMERLY SUPPORTED ALLENDE'S UP COALITION AND REPORTEDLY BELIEVE THAT THE PDC IS NOT RESPECTING THE POLITICAL RECESS. THE JUNTA IS PARTICULARLY CONCERNED BY THE POSSIBILITY THAT THE PDC'S LEFT UING

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE 'S PECUTED

OFFCER

IPDET
CL BY: 052556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# OUTGOING I. SSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE COI ACP TOD TPE MRO

011F 0 0 0 0 '0

SECRET

STRAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

ALLUIL

PAGE OF PAGES

7 8

DATE-PIME GROUP

CRE DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

0 INDES DISSEM BY:

0 NO INDRE

0 NETURN TO PER

199469

0 IF FILES #

WILL AID THE FORMER UP PARTIES IN RETURN FOR FUTURE ELECTORAL SUPPORT.

14. ONE PROBLEM OF MAJOR CONCERN TO THE JUNTA IS THE POSSIBILITY THAT PERU MAY ATTACK CHILE SOME TIME PRIOR TO 1979, THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE WAR BETUEEN CHILE AND PERU, IN ORDER TO REGAIN SOME OF THE TERRITORY LOST IN THAT WAR. THE CHILEANS ARE WORRIED BY THE SOVIET SALE OF ARMS TO PERU AND FEAR THAT THE USSR MAY BE TRY- ING TO CREATE ANOTHER UNSTABLE MIDDLE EAST TYPE" OF CLIMATE IN LATIN AMERICA.

15. THE JUNTA IS ALSO CONCERNED BY COMMUNIST EFFORTS TO CREATE INTERNAL DISCONTENT AND TO MOUNT AN INTERNAL RESISTANCE MOVEMENT. THE JUNTA EXPECTS THAT THE FORINER UP PARTIES, LED BY THE CONMUNISTS, WILL SET UP A UNIFIED FRONT FOR CAUSING CIVILIAN DISTURBANCES AND POLITICAL DISCONTENT, AND WILL TRY TO MANIPULATE THE PODC INTO OPPOSING THE JUNTA GOVERNMENT. TWO FRONTS FOR CHILEAN RESISTANCE ARE BEING ORGANIZED IN ARGENTINA AND SEVERAL ARE BEING SET UP IN EUROPE.

16. DESPITE THE FROBLEMS NOTED ABOVE, THE JUNTA GOVERNMENT IS

DATE:

ORIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER

COONDULATING COFICERS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS POCHIBINED

15-124-52

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 057556

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DATE TIME GROUP CITE MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

DIRECTOR DISSEM BY:

499469

IN FIRM CONTROL IN CHILE AND HAS MADE INPRESSIVE PROGRESS IN REORGANIZING THE GOVERNMENT AND IN ENLISTING PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR ITS PROGRAMS. PROSPECTS FOR ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND DEVELOPMENT ARE THE BEST WHICH COULD REASONABLY BE EXPECTED FROM A COUNTRY WHOSE ENTIRE ECONOMY WAS A SHAMBLES IN SEPTEMBER 1973.

17. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET-H

DATE: 10 JANUARY 1974

ORIG: JEANNE LINTON:LSS

UNIT: C/UH/L/SA

EXT: 6607/1069

UII/EICO - BILL KENT EIN DRAFT

C/EUR

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# SECRET

STAFF

TO: HAMBURG INFO BONN, SANTIAGO.

FUOMEN CASPECIAL CAFECET

REF: HAMBURG 23881 IN 0969231

1. FOLLOWING ANALYSIS OF CHILEAN ECONOMIC SITUATION AND OF RISK FACTORS INVOLVED IN MAKING INVESTMENTS IN CHILE PREPARED FOR PASSAGE TO HERMES BANK PER REF PARA I REQUEST.

A. THE RULING JUNTA IN CHILE IS MOVING AGGRESSIVELY TO REBUILD THE ECONOMY BY ADOPTING A HARSH AUSTERITY PROGRAM AND IN- STITUTING POLICIES DESIGNED TO RETURN CHILE TO A MARKET ECONOMY.

B. SANTIAGO MOVED QUICKLY AFTER THE COUP TO REMOVE PRICE CONTROLS ON ALL BUT 30 BASIC COMMODITIES, WHILE THE CENTRAL BANK EFFECTIVELY DEVALUED THE ESCUDO BY SOME L0% IN AN EFFORT TO CURB IMPORT DEMAND AND EASE PRESSURES ON SANTIAGO'S MEAGER FOREIGN EX- CHANGE RESERVAES. AS A RESULT, CHILE'S COST OF LIVING JUMPED 88% IN OCTOBER, BRINGING INFLATION TO NEARLY 450% FOR THE FIRST TEN MONTHS OF THE YEAR. ANTICIPATED PRICE RISES DURING THE REST OF 1973 IS EX- PECTED TO PUSH INFLATION TO SOME 750% FOR THE YEAR.

C. THE ELIMINATION OF PRICE CONTROLS AND ADJUSTMENT OF

RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE 487650

EXCHANGE RATES HAS PRACTICALLY ELIMINATED THE ONCE FLOURISHING BLACK MARKETS IN COMMODITIES AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE. WHILE EXCHANGE RATES CHANGED AND PRICES ROSE, THE GROUTH IN THE MONEY SUPPLY HAS BEEN SHARPLY CURTAILED, CAUSING A RELATIVE SCARCITY OF LOCAL CURRENCY AND A LIQUIDITY CRUNCH FOR BUSINESSMEN.

D. THE BURDEN ON CONSUMERS HAS BEEN HEAVY. DESPITE A HEALTHY INCREASE IN THE MINIMUM WAGE, WORKING CLASS CONSUMERS ARE FINDING IT INCREASINGLY DIFFICULT TO AFFORD THE BAREST NECESSITIES. AUSTERITY HAS BEEN EXACERBATED IN MANY CASES BY DISMISSALS OF RELATIVELY UNPRODUCTIVE AND POLITICALLY SUSPECT EMPLOYEES HIRED UNDER THE ALLENDE REGIME. AN UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM HAS BEEN ANNOUNCED AND AN EXTENSIVE PUBLIC WORKS PROGRAM IS UNDER CON- SIDERATION.

E. THE JUNTA IS ATTEMPTING TO ENLIST PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR THE AUSTERITY PROGRAM AND BUSINESS IS SHOWING RENEWED CONFIDENCE. CONSUMERS AND LABOR, HOWEVER, ARE TAKING A WAIT-AND-SEE ATTITUDE. NO ORGANIZED RESISTANCE TO THE JUNTA OR ITS PROGRAMS HAS MATERIALIZED. EVEN THOUGH SOME POLITICAL FACTIONS ARE GRUMBLING AND PREDICTING

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

SIGNAL CENTER US
OMF 0 0 0 0 0
SECRET
MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR
DATE-FING GROUP
PADS
PAGES
3
MESSAGE ASPESNICE NUMBER
CONF:
INFO: FILE
457650
DISSEM BY:
FAILURE FOR THE JUNTA.

F. CHILE STILL FACES LARGE BALANCE-OF-PAYMENTS DEFICITS IN BOTH 1973 AND 1974 EVEN IF DEBT-REPAYMENTS ARE RESCHEDULED IN BOTH YEARS. WITH A MASSIVE 4 BILLION FOREIGN DEBT HANGING OVER SANTIAGO'S HEAD, IT WILL AT LEAST BE SEVERAL YEARS BEFORE CHILE'S BALANCE-OF- PAYMENTS POSITION IMPROVES SIGNIFICANTLY.

G. HOWEVER, COPPER PRODUCTION HAS ALREADY INCREASED MORE THAN 50% ABOVE LAST YEAR'S LEVEL AS A RESULT OF A 9% LENGTHENING OF THE WORK WEEK AND IMPROVED MINE MANAGEMENT. PRODUCTION WILL PROBABLY REACH A RECORD 750,000 TONS NEXT YEAR DESPITE CONTINUING SHORTAGES OF SPARE PARTS AND SERVICEABLE VEHICLES.

H. AGRICULTURAL IMPORTS CONTINUE TO BE THE LARGEST DRAIN ON FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND THE RECOVERY OF DOMESTIC PRODUCTION IS A PRIORITY OBJECTIVE OF THE JUNTA. FARM OUTPUT, HOWEVER, IS NOT EX- PECTED TO FULLY RECOVER UNTIL THE 1974/75 HARVEST SINCE MOST CROPS ALREADY ARE PLANTED AND ARE WELL INTO THEIR GROWING SEASONS. THUS, CHILE WILL CONTINUE TO IMPORT GRAIN IN LARGE QUANTITIES DURING 1974.

I. ALTHOUGH THE PROBLEMS OF ADEQUATE SHORT RUN SUPPLIES

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
SECRET
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY
OMF O 0 0 0 0 0
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
MESSABE HANDLING INDICATOR
DATE-TIMS GROUP
4
CONF:
INFO: FILE..
187650
0 WDER DISSEM BY:
0 NO WDER PER
0 RETURN TO
0 PRES #
OF RAW MATERIALS AND SPARE PARTS MUST BE SOLVED TO BOOST PRODUCTION QUICKLY, LONG RUN GROWTH WILL DEPEND HEAVILY ON CHILE'S ABILITY TO ATTRACT ADEQUATE FOREIGN INVESTMENT. ATTRACTION OF SUBSTANTIAL NEW INVESTMENT WILL DEPEND ON THE JUNTA'S ABILITY TO DEMONSTRATE GOOD WELL AS FAITH IN THE TREATMENT OF FOREIGN EQUITY AS THEIR ABILITY TO INSTILL CONFIDENCE IN CHILE'S PROSPECTS FOR STABLE RECOVERY AND GROWTH. A CRITICAL FIRST STEP IS TIMELY SETTLEMENT OF OUTSTANDING COMPENSBATION CLAIMS EMANATING FROM THE ALLENDE NATIONALIZATIONS. THE JUNTA HAS STATED THAT IT WILL EITHER RETURN INTERVENED FIRMS TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR OR, AS IN THE CASE OF THE LARGE COPPER MINES, ADEQUATELY COMPENSATE THE PREVIOUS OWNERS. SOME 90 FIRMS ARE ALREADY IN THE PROCESS OF REVERSION.

J. THUS FAR THE JUNTA HAS SUCCEEDED IN LINING UP SUFFICIENT FOREIGN CREDITS TO ENABLE IT TO PURCHASE ESSENTIAL CAPITAL GOODS AND FINANCE THE CURRENT PAYMENTS GAP. IN ADDITION, THERE ARE STRONG INDICATIONS OF RENEWED INVESTOR CONFICENCE, AND PRIVATE FOR- EIGN INVESTMENT IN CHILE IS EXPECTED TO GROW DRAMATICALLY DURING THE NEXT 12 MONTHS.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RELEASING OFFICER
SECRET
COORDINATING OFFICERS
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBID
AUTHENTICATING OFFICE
E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF O 0 0 0 0 0 5

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE 487650 DISSEM BY:

K. THE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK FOR CHIBLE IS CAUTIOUSLY OPTI-
MISTIC AS THE JUNTA TAKES STEPS TO CORRECT THE EXCESSES OF NEARLY
THREE YEARS OF DECAPITALIZATION UNDER STATE SOCIALISM. THE PROGRAMS,
THOUGH AUSTERE, ARE ECONOMICALLY SOUND AND OFFER A FIRM FOUNDATION
FOR RECOVERY AND GROWTH OF THE CHILEAN ECONOMY. THE MAJOR POLICY
CONFLICTS WITHIN THE GOVERNMENT APPEAR TO BE OVER THE DEGREE AND
TIMING OF SPECIFIC MEASURES PATHER THAN PROBLEMS OF BASIC POLICY
ORIENTATION.

L. THE EMERGING DOMINANCE OF RAUL SAEZ AS SENIOR ECONOMIC
ADVISOR IS PROBABLY FOR THE BEST SINCE THE JUNTA'S AUSTERITY PROGRAM
MUST BE TEMPERED IF POLITICAL AS WELL AS ECONOMIC RECOVERY AND
STABILITY IS TO BE ACHIEVED. MEANWHILE, CHILE IS PREPARING TO
SETTLE OUTSTANDING COMPENSATION ISSUES AND COMPLETE BILATERAL NE-
GOTIATIONS ON 1971/72 DEBT SERVICE IN ACCORD WITH THE 1972 PARIS
CLUB AGREEMENTS. TIMELY RESOLUTION OF THESE ISSUES WILL GO FAR
IN IMPROVING INVESTOR AND CREDITOR CONFIDENCE IN CHILE.

2. FOLLOWING QUESTIONS SUGGESTED TO ELICIT HERMES' VIEWS
   ON CHILE'S ECONOMIC PROSPECTS AS REQUESTED PARA 3 REF.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

| AGB | COI | ACP | TOO | TPS | MRD |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   | 0   |

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

PAGE 6 OF PAGES 6

DATE TIME GROUP

CITE

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CONF: INFO: FILE 487650

| DISSEM BY:      |     |
| --------------- | --- |
| 0 NO INDEX      |     |
| 0 RETURN TO PER |     |
| 0 FILES #       |     |

A. HOW MUCH AND WHAT KINDS OF PRIVATE DIRECT FOREIGN IN-
VESTMENT FROM GERMAN AND OTHER WEST EUROPEAN SOURCES IS EXPECTED TO
ENTER CHILE DURING NEXT 12 MONTHS?

B. DO BANK OFFICIALS EXPECT SUBSTANTIAL PRIVATE AND/OR
OFFICIAL GERMAN CREDITS TO BE EXTENDED TO CHILE DURING NEXT 12 MONTHS?
WHAT TYPES OF CREDITS WOULD THESE BE, I.E. BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
RELIEF, DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE, TIED AND UNTIED TRADE CREDITS?

C. DO BANK OFFICIALS SEE THE WIDESPREAD ADVERSE PUBLIC
REACTION IN EUROPE TO THE NEW CHILEAN GOVERNMENT AS SIGNIFICANTLY
AFFECTING FUTURE INVESTMENT AND AID DECISIONS FOR CHILE?

3. HERMES' REACTION TO ANALYSIS AND RESPONSE TO QUESTIONS WILL
   BE OF INTEREST.

4. FILE: 15-126-52. E2, IMPDET.H

#REF ATTACHED.

DATE: 4 DECEMBER 1973
ORIG: JEANNE LINTON:SMB
UNIT: C/WH/6/SA
EXT: 6609/1069

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

**SECRET**

C/WH/6

COLADIRATC-FICER

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2 IMPDĖT
CL BYO57556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

STAFF
CONF: C INFO: FILE C/, C/553, C/C1 C/SB5

CITE
2615392
DIRECTOR
459557
DISSEM BY: 35
PER

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS, LA PAZ, QUITO, BOGOTA, MONTEVIDEO, BRASILIA, MEXICO CITY, BUENOS AIRES, GUATEMALA CITY, SAN SALVADOR, MANAGUA.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REF: DIRECTOR-458246

1. FOLLOWING INFO CLEARED FOR ORAL FUOMEN BRIEFINGS, STIPULATION NO FURTHER EXPLOITATION. SOURCE: CHILEAN CITIZEN RESIDING IN LIMA.

2. SUBJECT: POSSIBLE SUPPORT BY LATIN AMERICAN COMMUNIST PARTIES FOR RESISTANCE IN CHILE.

3. BACKGROUND: IT WAS INDICATED IN AN EARLIER BRIEFING (REF) THAT SOVIET COMMUNIST PARTY OF PERU (PCP/SOVIET) INTENDED TO SERVE AS A RECEPTION POINT FOR GUERRILLA FIGHTERS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES WHO WOULD ENTER CHILE FROM PERU TO JOIN ANY RESISTANCE MOVEMENT IN CHILE.

4. THE FIRST WORD OF CHILEAN COUP WAS RECEIVED BY PCP/SOVIET FROM CHILEAN EMBASSY IN LIMA. CENTRAL COMMITTEE CALLED AN EMERGENCY MEETING WHEN IT APPEARED THAT EVENTS IN CHILE WERE GOING AGAINST

26 Sep 73

WH/6 CT-715-124-52

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

DIRECTOR
454557

ALLENCE REGIME. UHILE WAITING FOR INSTRUCTIONS FROM HOSCOW, CENTRAL
COMMITTEE DECIDED TAKE CERTAIN MEASURES SUCH AS SENDING SIX
ORGANIZERS INTO CHILE. THESE ORGANIZERS WERE MEMBERS OF PERUVIAN
CORNUNIST YOUTH, WHO USED PASSPORTS OBTAINED EARLIER FROM CHILEAN
ENSASSY IN CASE OF SUCH AN EMERGENCY. PASSPORTS WERE LEGITIMATE,
BUT DATA IN THEM, INCLUDING NANES, WERE FALSE. THE PERUVIANS WERE
TO CROSS INTO CHILE AT THE TACNA/ARICA BORDER POINT AND WERE TO BE
ACCOMPANIED BY A NUMBER OF BOLIVIANS AND BRAZILIANS.

5. ON 15 SEPTEMBER, TWO UNIDENTIFIED MEN WHO WERE LATIN
   AMERICANS BUT NOT PERUVIANS BROUGHT TO PCP/SOVIET HEADQUARTERS
   INSTRUCTIONS FROM THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF THE SOVIET UNION (CPSU).
   INSTRUCTIONS WERE DELIVERED TO MENCERS OF P.CP/SOVIET CENTRAL
   COMMITTEE AND INMEDIATELY DISCUSSED BY PARTY LEADERS INCLUDING
   JORGE DEL PRADO CHAVEZ (PCP/SOVIET SEC GENT, FELIX ARIAS SCHREIBER
   CPCP/SOVIET POLITICAL COMMISSION MEMBER), GUILLERMO HERRERA
   MONTESINOS CALSO NENBER OF PCP/SOVIET POLITICAL COMMISSION), AND
   ONE OF THE TWO COURIERS DELIVERING THE INSTRUCTIONS WHO USED
   THE ALIAS "FIGUEROA." FOLLOWING DISCUSSION, THESE PARTY LEADERS

DATE:

CRIG:

UNIT:

EXT:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CRILY

0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF INFO: FILE

CONF:

DIRECTOR

459557

0

0

MESSAUS

POURS

DISSEM BY:

PER

GEGAN PREPARING INSTRUCTIONS FOR PARTY MEMBERS TO AID IN SUPPORT THEIR COUNTERPARTS IN THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF CHILE (PCCH). INITIAL INSTRUCTIONS TO PCP/SOVIET MEMBERS WERE TO ARRANGE FOR LODGING FOR MEMBERS OF OTHER LATIN AMERICAN COMMUNIST PARTIES WHO WERE ARRIVING IN LIINA, TO OBTAIN MAPS OF CHILE, FALSE DOCUMENTATION、ETC.

6. SECOND STAGE OF SUPPORT TO CHILE WAS TO BEGIN DURING WEEK OF 23 SEPTEMBER WHEN COMMUNISTS AND OTHERS WERE TO ARRIVE FROM COUNTRIES.
   VENEZUELA, PANAMA, COLOMBIA, CUBA AND OTHER ALL WERE TO BE LODGED IN LIMA, AIND, LATER, GIVEN FALSE DOCUMENTS AND TRANSPORTATION TO CHILEAN BORDER. THEIR PRINCIPAL TASK IN CHILE WAS TO ASSIST IN REORGANIZATION OF PCCH FOLLOWING COUP D'ETAT, AS WELL AS IN PRO- DUCTION OF CLANDESTINE PROPAGANDA. THEY ALSO WERE TO STUDY POSSI- BILITY OF AIDING IN MOUNTING CONCERTED ARMED RESISTANCE TO MILITARY REGINE, PRINCIPALLY THROUGH URBAN GUERRILLA WARFARE. THERE WAS NO NEED TO SEND ARMS, SINCE THERE STILL ENOUGH WEAPONS HIDDEN IN CHILE TO MAKE SUCH RISK UNNECESSARY.

7. CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICAN COMMUNISTS WERE TO MEET IN LIMA 911 25 SEPTEMBER TO CONSIDER SENDING PERSONS TO CHILE TO ORGANIZE

CATE:

OPIG:

EXT:

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY CIDER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

15-124-52

E 2 IMPOET

CL SY 057056


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

OUTGOLIG MESSAGE

STAFF DIRECTOR

SECRET 459557

GUERRILLA GROUPS THERE AND TO AID CHILEAN COMMUNISTS. SOME DELEGATES
TO MECTING ARRIVED EARLY IN ORDER ATTEND REGIONAL MEETING OF INTER-
NATIONAL LABOR ORGANIZATION (ILO) WHICH BEGAN 19 SEPT. JUAN CAMPOS
CAMPOS, CHILEAN, SECRETARY, FORLATIN AMERICAN AFFAIRS OF WORLD FEDER-
ATION OF TRADE UNIONS CUFTU), WHO IS IN LIMA FOR ILO MEETING, HELD
PRESS CONFERENCE ON 13 SEPTEMBER DURING WHICH HE CALLED ON ALLL. WORLD
TRADE UNION ORGANIZATIONS TO MOUNT PUBLIC OPINION CRUSADE AGAINST
CHILEAN JUNTA.

8. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET.

26 SEPTEMBER 1973

CILLIAM M. KENT LSS

ADC/UM/6

6556/7155

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTERUSE ONLY

ORF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF 2515242 DIRECTOR 457023
CONT: JUL16 INFO: FILE CISSS DISSEM BY: 9

TO: PRIORITY LIMA.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REFS: A. PANAMA CITY 25754 |IN 035309|

B. LIMA 26010 |IN 038180|

1. REF A WAS USED FOR FUOMEN. AS FOLLOW-UP WOULD LIKE USE REF LIMA 26010,
   B. SUBJECT YOUR CONCURRENCE AND CAVEATS. WILL SOURCE TO CHILEAN
   EXILE. IN LIMA AND DELETE REFERENCES TO SOURCES IN REPORT (PIP PENE-
   TRATION AGENT AND HIGH LEVEL OFFICIAL OF PERUVIAN SERVICE WHO IS
   PROFESSIONAL INTEL OFFICER) AND ALTER TEXT ACCORDINGLY. PLEASE AD-VISE.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET.N

*REFS ATTACHED.

DATE: 25 SEPTEMBER 3973
ORIG: WILLIAM M. KENT:SMB
UNIT: ADC/UH/L
EXT: 6556/9155

SECRET

![diagram]

WH/6 CT-4
15-124-52
25 Sep. 13

E 2 IMPOET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE UNIT 24-1

0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF DATE OF MESSAGE
2422102 DIRECTOR
CONF: C/WH INFO: FILE: L/IDAN L/EUR6 <L/CSHNTZ

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
453840
DISSEM BY:
0 INDES
0 NO INDES
0 RETURN TO PER

0 IP MESS #

TO: PRIORITY BONN INFO MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, BRASILIA, PARIS, LONDON.

RYBAT CAGER FUOMEN

REF: BONN 26475 IN 037592

1. IN GENERAL TERMS BUSINESSES LEGALLY NATIONALIZED SUCH AS COPPER COMPANIES, BANKS AND ITT HAVE BECOME GOVERNMENT PROPERTY AND WILL NOT BE RETURNED, WHILE BUSINESSES WHICH WERE INTERVENED, INCLUDING MOST DOMESTIC MANUFACTURING FIRMS, MAY BE RETURNED TO THEIR FORMER OWNERS. THE SAME GENERAL CRITERIA APPLY TO PROPERTY: LARGE FARMS LEGALLY EXPROPRIATED WILL NOT BE RETURNED TO THEIR FORMER OWNERS, WHILE FARMS ILLEGALLY OCCUPIED PROBABLY WILL BE RETURNED. IT SHOULD BE NOTED, HOWEVER, THAT TO OUR KNOWLEDGE NO LIST EXISTS WHICH SPECIFICALLY IDENTIFIES WHICH BUSINESSES OR PROPERTIES FALL INTO WHICH CATEGORY. WE HAVE NO FURTHER DETAILS THIS SUBJECT.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET.H

DATE: 24 SEPTEMBER 1973
ORIG: JEANNE LINTON:LSS
UNIT: WH/L/SA
EXT: 6607/1067

C/EUR

RECD COPY

WH/6 CT-Y

15-124-52
24 SEP 73

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: US7556

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

CABLE SEC DISGEM BY

PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFILO

TOTAL COPIES DIN BY

SECRET

Chill

PEPPOOLIC FION BY OTHER THAN
INSUING UIFICE IS PRONINITEO

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SD15201

ACTION UNIT

CIWH8

ACTION

RF.

FILE.

VR

IPSIEG 3

AGENCY MESSAGE

T 551709

PAGE 01

IN 337590

TOR:2414502 SEP 73

BONN 26475

SECRET 241415Z SEP 73 STAFF

CITE BONN 26475

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, BRASILIA. PARIS,
LONDON.

RYBAT CAGER FUOMEN

REF: A. DIRECTOR 458535

Legal property of gov't

B. DIRECTOR 456615

C. BONN 26432 L 035549)

1. PARA 38 REF 8 STATES PROPERTIES IN "SOCIAL AREAR WHICH
   HAVE BECOME QUOTE LEGAL UNQUOTE PROPERTY OF GOVT WILL NOT BE
   RETURNED OWNERS. SEF CREQUESTED IDENTIFICATION OF SPECIFIC
   PROPERTIES INVOLVED. NOT CLEAR FROM FEF A WHETHER EXPROPRIATED
   AND REQUISITIONED PROPERTIES CONSIDERED QUCTE LEGAL UNQUOTE
   PROPERTIES OF GOVT SUBJECT TO PROVISIONS PARA 38 REF B. IN
   OTHER WORDS. WHAT IF ANY FIRMS IN SOCIAL AREA HAVE NOT BECONE
   LEGAL PROPERITY OF GOVERNMENT AND WHAT FIRMS HAVE BEEN TAKEN
   OVER OR INTERVENED WITHOUT BECOMING LEGAL PROPERTY OF GOVERN-
   MENT.

2. PLS CLARIFY AND IF POSSIBLE PROVIDE SPECIFIC EXAMPLES
   OF FIRMS INVOLVED.

SECRET
RECORD COPY

W/6 C7-Y

15-124-52

24 Sep 73


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

CABLE BEC DISSEM BY PER

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TOTAL COPIES RUN DY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION TNY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AGENCY MESSAGE

ADYANGE COPY ISSUED SLOTTER

ACTION UNIT BY AT

RF. FILE VR

ACTION # ZLO

T 551709 PAGE 02-02 IN 037592

TOR:241450Z SEP 73 BONN 26473

3. FILE: 15-124-52. E2 IMPDET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE TIME GROUP
221721Z

CITE
DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
458535

TO: PRIORITY BONN INFO MEXICO CITY, COARACAS, BRASILIA, PARIS, LONDON.

RYBAT FUOMEN CAGER

REFS: A. BONDON 26432 |IN 035549| |*|

B. DIRECTOR 456615 |**|

1. "SOCIAL AREA" IS TERM OFOR STATE-CONTROLLED SECTOR OF ECONOMY. STATE CONTROL OVER WIDE VARIETY OF ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES WAS SIGNIFICANTLY EXPANDED DURING ALLENDE REGIME. THROUGH PURCHASES. EXPROPRIATIONS, REQUISITIONS, AND INTERVENTIONS OF PRIVATE SECTOR ENTERPRISES, THE GOC BY MID-1973 HAD CONTROL OVER PRODUCTION OF GOODS AND SERVICES ACCOUNTING FOR ALMOST HALF OF CHILE'S GDP, COMPARED TO AN ESTIMATED 20% AT END OF THE FREI ADMINISTRATION IN 1970.

2. SINCE TAKING OFFICE, ALLENDE GOVT HAD TAKEN OVER AT LEAST 400 FIRMS. THE EXECUTIVE HAD SUBMITTED TO CONGRESS ON VARIOUS OCCASIONS BILLS THAT WOULD AUTHORIZE INCREASES IN SCOPE AND RANGE OF GOUT-CONTROLLED SECTOR, BUT THERE HAD BEEN NO AGREEMENT ON WHAT SECOTOR'S LIMITS SHOULD BE. ALLENDE GOVT. THEREFORE HAD CONTINUED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

AGE COB ACP TOO TPS MRO

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

STAFF

DATE-TIME GROUP

DIRECTOR

PAGE OF PAGES

2 2

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CONF: INFO: FILE

458535

0 SIDES DISSEM BY:

0 NO INDEX

0 RETURN TO PER

0 IP FILES #

TO REQUISITION AND INTERVENE PRIVATE SECTOR ENTERPRISES AS IT
CONSIDERED JUSTIFIED.

3. FILE: 15-1204-52. E 2, IMPDET-A

*INTEND USE (REF BY) FUOMEN. PLS IDENTIFY "SOCIAL AREA"
PROPERTIES.

**FUOMEN ON ECONOMIC PLANS OF CHILEAN MILITARY JUNTA.

DATE: 22 SEPTEMBER 1973

ORIG: WILLIAM KENT; DSO

UNIT: ADC/UHB

EXZ 6556/9755

![Signature]

ADC/UH/

![Signature]

![Signature]

REPRODUCTIO.. BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS RO...ITED E 2 IMPDET

CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

AGE COI ACP TOG TPS MRO
OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE-TIME GROUP
221719Z
DIRECTOR
STAFF

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER
458522
DISSEM RY: 78
CONF: gu/H8 INFO: FILE C/F/AN, C/EA4, C/EURG. C/553, C/EPS/INT 2

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS, BRASILIA, LIMA, PARIS, LONDON, BONN, BERN. MONTEVIDEO, TONKYO, ROME.

RYBAT FUOMEN

1. FOLLOWING INFO CLEARED FOR ORAL FUOMEN BRIEFINGS, STIPULATION NO FURTHER EXPLOITATION. SOURCE: MEXICAN JOURNALIST WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN LEFTIST CIRCLES.

2. SUBJECT: *REMARKS BY CUBAN INTELLIGENCE OFFICER IN MEXICO* AFTER THE 11 SEPTEMBER COUP D'ETAT IN CHILE.

3. SHORTLY AFTER THE COUP D'ETAT IN CHILE, A CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICER WHO IS ALSO A MEMBER OF THE CUBAN DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE (DGI) IN MEXICO SAID THAT THE CUBAN GOVT WAS IMPRESSED WITH THE GOOD ORGANIZATION OF CHILEAN MILITARY'S SUCCESSFUL OVERTHROW OF THE ALLENDE REGIME ON 11 SEPTEMBER.

4. HE SAID THE CUBAN GOVT AND CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO WERE NOT SURPRISED, HOWEVER, THAT AN ATTEMPT AGAINST THE ALLENDE GOVT WAS MADE BECAUSE THEY HAD LONG PERCEIVED THAT ALLENDE, WHILE A GOOD MARXIST, LACKED SUFFICIENT AGGRESSIVENESS TOWARD HIS ENEMIES.

5. HE SAID THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO HAD PLANS PREPARED

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:

RECORD COPY

22 Sep '73

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

IMPDET
CL. BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0
ADE 0
COP 0
ACP 0
TOO 0
TPE 0
MOD 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE NANULING INDICATOR

DATE-TIME GROUP

PAGE 2
OF 2
PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CONF: INFO: FILE 458572

DISSEN BY:

IN CASE OF ALLENDE OVERTHROW. LONG BEFORE 11 SEPTEMBER CUBAN EMBASSY BEGAN DISTRIBUTING LATEST MODEL AUTOMATIC WEAPONS, EXPLOSIVES, AND EVEN ANTI-TANK AND ANTI-AIRCRAFT WEAPONS AND AMMUNITION TO CHILEAN WORKER CADRES WITH WHOM CUBAN EMBASSY OFFICIALS HAD BEEN WORKING FOR LONG TIME. MUNITIONS ALSO HAD BEEN DISTRIBUTED TO CUBAN CADRES IN CHILE WOHO HAD BEEN ACTIVE AMONG WORKERS. IT IS THEY WHO NOU MUST BEAR MAIN RESPONSIBILITY FOR PREPARING THE INEVITABLE COUNTER-COUP AGAINST MILITARY JUNTA. THIS IS EXPECTED TO TAKE TIME AND TRAINING, BUT MEANS ARE AVAILABLE AND CUBAN WEAPONRY IS FAR SUPERIOR TO THAT OF CHILEAN ARMED FORCES.

6. FILE: 15-124-528. E 2. IMPDET.H

DATE: 21 SEPTEMBER 1973
ORIG: WILDOLLIAM KENT:DSO
UNIT: ADC/WH/L
EXT: 5515/98192

ClwhteG. O. Buble
C/EUR/SA
EA/JKO/J
C/WH/SA-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

OMFO 0 0 0 0

SECRET

STAFF

TO: PRIORITY CARACAS, LA PAZ, QUITO, BOGOTA, MONTEVIDEO, BRASILIA,
MEXICO CITY, BUENOS AIRES, GUATOEMALA CITY, SAN SALVADOR, MANAGUA.
RYBAT FUOMEN

1. FOLLOWING INFO CLEARED FOR ORAL FUOMEN BRIEFINGS, STIPULATION NO FURTHER EXPLOITATION.... SOURCE: CHILEAN CITIZEN RESIDING IN LIMA.

2. SUBJECT: MEETING IN LIMA OF LATIN AMERICAN SUBEVERSIVE ORGANIZATIONS TO MAKE PLANS TO SEND MILITANTS TO CHILE.

3. ON OR ABOUT 22 SEPTEMBER A MEETING IS TO BE HELD IN LIMA DR OF CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMBERICAN SUBVERSIVE ORGANIZATIONS FOR THE PURPOSE OF MAKING PLANS TO SEND MILITANTS TO CHILE TO ORGANIZE GUERRILLA GROUPS AND TO HELP CHILEAN COMMUNISTS.

4. THE PRO-SOVIET COMMUNIST PARTY OF PERU IS DISCUSSING THE POSSIBILITY OF SENDING GROUPS TO CHILE TO FIGHT ALONGSIDE ANY CHILEANS WHO ARE STILL OFFERING RESISTANCE TO THE NEW MILITARY JUNTA. THE PARTY INTENDS TO SERVE AS A RECEPTION POINT FOR GUERRILLA FIGHTERS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES WHO WOULD ENTER CHILE FROM PERU TO JOIN RESISTANCE FORCES BIN CHILE.

DATE:
ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

SIGNAL CENTERUSE ONLY

ACP TOO TPS MDG

OMF 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MF BRAGE MARTILING INDICATOR

DATE TIME GROUP

PAGE OF PAGES

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

CONF: INFO: FILE

458246

0 DISSEM BY:

0 PER

0 #

5. FILE: 15-124-52. E 2. IMPDET.H

DATE: 21 SEPTEMBER 1973

UILLIAM KENT: DSO

ORIG: ADC/WH/L

UNIT: 5515/9192

EXT:

![Signature of releaser]

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

![Signature of coordinator] DC/WH/3

![Signature of authenticator] for C/UH/b E 2 IMPDET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

SECRET

CAPLE SEU DISSEM DY

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED. TOTAL COPIES 24 REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY WH CDM 1935 AGENCY MESSAGE

ACTION UNIT RF. FILE VIN

857 PAGE 01-01 IN 036120
547408 TORI211917Z SEP 73 PACY 25771

SECRET 211911Z SEP 73 STAFF

CITE PANAMA CITY 25771

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REF A. DIRECTOR 457922

B. PANAMA CITY 2575 (035309)

1. CONCUR REF A.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2 IMPDET

![signature]

RECORD COPY
SECRET

WH/6 CT-XJ
15-124-52
21 Sep 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY.

PER

TOTAL COPIES 12-

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED

WH

RF. FILE. VR. 4/1P/AN

ACTION UNIT

CW48

N

853

PRECEDENCE

PAGE 01-01

IN 036065

TOR:12118112 SEP 73

MEXI 25263

SECRET 2118082 SEP 73 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 25263

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR,

RYBAT FUOMEN

REF DIRECTOR 457888

1. CONCUR. NO CAVEATS.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2 IMPDET

> [Figure] handwritten note on the side includes: a grid, text "WH/6 CT-4", "15-124-52", and "2: Sep 73".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMFO 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDUNG INDICATOR

DATE TIME GROUP

211725Z

CITE

DIRECTOR

MESSAGE REFERENCE NUMBER

457922

DISSEM BY:

PER

STAFF

CONF: INFO: FILE

C/PS/EMS c/3.33
c/PS/EMS c/10

TO: PRIORITY PANAMA CITY.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REF: PANAMA CITY 25754. [IN 035309]

1. PROPOSE USE REF FOR FUOMEN, WILL ALTER TEXT TO SHOW LIMA AS PLACE ACQUIRED, OMMITTING REFERENCE TO TRAVEL OF QUIJADA OR HIS PARTICIPATION AT MEETING. WILL SOURCE TO CHILEAN EXILE IN LIMA. SAME SUBJECT. PLEASE ADVISE CONCURRENCE AND ANY CAVEATS.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET-H

*MEETING IN LIMA OF LATAM SOCIALIST ORGS TO MAKE PLANS SEND MILITANTS TO CHILE TO ORGANIZE GUERRILLA GROUPS AND HELP CHILEAN COMMUNISTS.

DATE: 21 SEPTEMBER 1973
ORIG: WILLIAM M. KENT: LSS
UNIT: ADC/WH/6
EXT: 6556/9155

![signature]

C/UHD

RELEASING OFFICER

RECORD COPY

![signature]

COORDINATING OFFICER

![signature]

C/WH/2

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

SECRET

WH/6 CI-4

15-124-52

21 Sep 73

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

# OUTGOING MESSAGE

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

MESSAGE HANDLING INDICATOR

DATE-TIME GROUP

211612Z

CONF: INFO: FILE:

TO: PRIORITY MEXICO CITY.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REF: MEXICO CITY 25260 |IN 0353051

1. PROPOSE USE REF FOR FUOMEN, WILL OMIT NAME OF MANUEL CORTINA AND REFER TO HIM ONLY AS OFFICER IN CUBAN EMBASSY WHO MEMBER OF DGI. WILL SOURCE TO MEXICAN JOURNALIST WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN LEFTIST CIRCLES, SAME SUBJECT. PLEASE ADVISE CONCURRENCE AND ANY CAVEATS.

2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET.H

DATE: 21 SEPTEMBER 1973

ORIG: WILLIAM M. KENT: LSSR

UNIT: ADC/WH/6

EXT: 6556/9155

RELEASING OFFICER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

E 2 IMPDET
CL BY: 057556


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY:

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED:

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

AGENCY MESSAGE

ACTION UNIT: /EURG /

RF. FILE: v.r. /ClipLAN, CISS3 clw18/

ACTION 097

PAGE 21-01

IN 235549

TOR12110122 SEP 73

BONN 26432

SECRET 210956Z SEP 73 STAFF

PRECEDENCE

CITE BONN 26432

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR INFO MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, BRASILIA, PARIS, LONDON.

RYBAT CAGER FUOMEN

REF: DIRECTOR 456615

1. INTEND USE FUOMEN INFO REF, TO INCREASE USEFULNESS.

PLS IDENTIFY "SOCIAL AREA" PROPERTIES REFERRED TO PARA 38 REF.

2. FILE 15-124-52. EZ-IMPDET

![photo of unit 6, st-4, 15-124-52, 21 Sept 73]

SECRET

RECORD COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: PRIORITY MEXICO CITY, CARACAS, BRASILIA, BONN, PARIS, LONDON.

RYBAT FUOMEN

1. FOLLOWING INFORMATION CLEARED FOR ORAL FUOMEN BRIEFINGS.
   STIPULATION NO FURTHER EXPLITATION. SOURCE: CHILEAN BUSINESSMAN
   WITH GOOD CONTACTS IN MILITARY JUNTA GOVERNMENT.

2. SUBJECT: ECONOMIC PLANS OF CHILEAN MILITARY JUNTA

3. ON 15 SEPTEMBER GENERAL SERGIO NUNO, MINISTER VICE PRESIDENT
   OF CHILEAN DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (CORFO), OUTLINED MILITARY JUNTA'S
   ECONOMIC PLANS AS FOLLOWS:

A. ALL OF FIRNS AND COMPANIES WHICH HAVE BEEN EITHER TAKEN
OVER OR INTERVENED BUT WHICH ARE NOT LEGALLY OWNED BY GOVERNMENT,
WILL BE RETURNED TO THEIR ORIGINAL OWNERS:

B. THOSE PROPERTIES IN "SOCIAL AREA" WHICH HAVE BECOME
LEGAL PROPERTY OF GOVT WILL NOT BE RETURNED TO PREVIOUS OWNERS. NUNO
SAID HE BELIEVES THAT A GIVEN PERCENTAGE OF OWNERSHIP OF THESE
PROPERTIES, PERHAPS AS MUCH AS 40 OR 50%, SHOULD BE AVAILABLE
TO THE WORKERS, AND REMAINING PERCENTAGE SHOULD BE SOLD AS SHARES
TO THE PUBLIC.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

OUTGOING MESSAGE

SIGNAL CENTER USE ONLY

OMF 0 0 0 0 0 0

SECRET

CONF: INFO: FILE 456615

TO THE PUBLIC.

4. ACCORDING TO NUNO, PERSONNEL IN CHARGE OF THESE INDUSTRIES
   HAVE BEEN INSTRUCTED TO BEGIN WORKING AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. THEY
   ARE TO REQUEST ANY HELP THEY NEED FROM ARMED FORCES, AND IN EVENT
   OF ANY PROBLEMS. THEY ARE TO CONTACT GENERAL NUNO, WHO WILL ATTEMPT
   TO HELP THEM.

5. GENERAL NUNO SAID THAT CORFO HAS IN EFFECT ASSUMED THE
   PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY FOR COUNTRY'S ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT. GENERAL
   NUNO AND CORFO WILL WORK VERY CLOSELY WITH INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
   SOCIETY (SOFOFA), WHICH HAS APPOINTED EUGENIO HEIRENAIS AS SOFOFA
   COORDINATOR WITH CORFO.

6. FILE: 15-124-52. E2, IMPDET.

DATE: 18 SEPTEMBER 1973

ORIG: WILLIAM M. KENT:SMB

UNIT: ADC/UH/6

EXT: 6556/9155

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 28

PLA

TOTAL COPIES 2131

SECRET

ADVANCE SSP ISSUED SLOFFED WH CD BY 2000

ACTION UNIT

C/WH8

RF. FILE.

VR. 6/10/04 C/553. C/PS/663

AGENCY MESSAGE

732

T 538842

PAGE 01-01

IN-032783

TOR:181935Z SEP 73

SAGO 26529

SECRET 161856Z SEP 73 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 26529

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

RYBAT FUOMEN

REF: DIRECTOR 456203

(IN 0.313.51)

1. CONCUR USE OF SANTIAGO 26489 (HCS 9836) FOR

FUOMEN. NO SPECIALCAVEATS.

(IN 031722)

2. PREFER NOT USE SANTIAGO 26512 (HCS 9839) BECAUSE

OF SOURCE SENSITIVITY. INFO WAS GIVEN DIRECTLY AND PRIVATELY

TO FUERMINE-3 BY FUABLE-2.

3. NO FILE. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET

RECOND COPY

![illegible markings]

18 SEP73

15-124-52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

DISSEM BY IW PER
JFB
TOTAL COPIES
RUN AV
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
SECRET
E2. IMPDET
CL. BY: 007622
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED BY AT
AGENCY MESSAGE
WH 11 FILE, VR, DDO, DDO/DO, IP/AN, IW, OPS/INT 5, SS 4,
1
ACTION: 179 PS/EG 2, CI, CI/OP, FR 4, SS/SOG 3
4
PAGE 01
TOR: 172145Z SEP 73
SAGO 26512
SECRET 171950Z SEP 73 INTEL
TDFIR-314. 075/1-73
HCS-9839
CITE SANTIAGO 26512
TO: DIRECTOR,
INTEL
SUPDATA: SOURCE: FUERMINE-3 FROM IDEN. NO INDEX. FILE:
15-9-4, CL BY 009560,
FILEDI 171950Z

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

# Intelligence Information Cable

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
STATE INR NMCC/MC (DIA) CIA/NMCC NIC NSA TREAS SDO ONE CAS IN 031722
PAGE 1 OF PAGES
Classified by Rocorded Reporting Officor. Roompt from Canoral Doslassificallan Schocdulo of 8.0. 11632 Exomption Category 30 (1), (2). Impossible to Cotormino Dato
of Autamatic Doclassificiation.
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

THIS IS AN INFORMATION REPORT, NOT FINALLY EVALUATED INTELLIGENCE

SECRET

CITE TDFIR-314/07571-73
DIST 17 SEPTENGER 1973

COUNTRY: CHILE

DOI 15 SEPTEMBER 1973

SUBJECT: PLANS OF EDUARDO FREI, FORMER PRESIDENT OF CHILE
AND LEADER OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY TO LEAVE C

ACQ 1 CHILE, SANTIAGO (16 SEPTEMBER 1973) FIELD NO. HCS-9839.

SOURCE: AN INFLUENTIAL MEMBER OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY
WHOSE POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY PLACES HIM IN THE
CENTER OF THE PARTY'S IDEOLOGICAL SPECTRUM. HE HAS
GOOD ACCESS TO BOTH THE RIGHT AND LEFT-WING SECTORS
OF THE PDC. MUCH OF HIS PREVIOUS REPORTING HAS BEEN
CONFIRMED BY SUBSEQUENT EVENTS AND SOURCES.

1. ON 15 SEPTEMBER 1973 FORMER PRESIDENT EDUARDO FRE 1.
   A LEADER OF THE CHRISTIAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY (PDC), TOLD OTHER
   PDC LEADERS THAT HE CONSIDERED IT WISEST FOR HIM TO LEAVE
   CHILE IN THE NEAR FUTURE AND FOR HIM TO REMAIN ABROAD UNTIL THE
   DIRECTIONS OF THE NEW GOVERNMENT BECOME CLEARER AND THE SECURITY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED
# SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM
IN 03.722
TOFIR -314 07571-
PAGE 2 OF 3 PAGES

SITUATION BECOMES MORE STABLIZED.

2. (SOURCE COMMENT) MOST OF THE PDC LEADERS ARE CONCERNED ABOUT THEIR PERSONAL SAFETY SINCE THEY BELIEVE THAT THEY ARE TARGETS FOR ASSASSINATION BY LEFTIST EXTREMISTS AND THAT THEY MAY BECOME THE POLITICAL TARGETS OF THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT. THEY ARE CONCERNED PARTICULARLY ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT'S OFFERING OF IMPORTANT POSTS TO RIGHTISTS SUCH AS ORLANDO SAEN Z. THE PRESIDENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT SOCIETY (SOFOFA), WHO HAS BEEN NAMED AS ECONOMIC ADVISOR TO THE MINISTRY OF FOREIGN RELATIONS; AND LEON VILARIN, HEAD OF THE TRUCK OWNERS FEDERATION, WHO WAS OFFERED THE POST OF MINISTER OF PUBLIC WORKS, WHICH HE REFUSED. WHILE SAENZ HAS A NUMBER OF FRIENDLY CONTACTS WITH PDC MEMBERS, HE IS REGARDED BY THE PDC LEADERS AS BASICALLY OPPOSED TO THE PDC AND INTERESTED IN ITS ELIMINATION AS A VIABLE POLITICAL ENTITY,)

3. FREI SAID THAT WHILE HE IS CONSIDERING LEAVING THE COUNTRY OF HIS OWN WILL, HE WOULD PREFER TO BE REQUESTED TO LEAVE BY THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT, IN ORDER TO PROTECT HIS POLITICAL FUTURE. HE DOES NOT WANT TO BE IDENTIFIED WITH THE MILITARY GOVERNMENT, AND HE WOULD PREFER THAT HIS DEPARTURE DOES NOT APPEAR TO BE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

WARNING NOTICE
SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED

IN 031722
TDFIR -314/07571-73
PAGE 3 OF 3 PAGES

**SECRET** NO FOREIGN DISSEM
*(classification) (dissem controle)*

IN FEAR FOR HIS PERSONAL SAFETY.

4. FIELD DISSEMI EMBASSY, DEFATT AT SANTIAGO,

REPORT CLASS SECRET/WARNING NOTICE-SENSITIVE INTELLIGENCE
SOURCES AND METHODS INVOLVED/NO FOREIGN DISSEM

CLASSIFIED BY RECORDED REPORTING OFFICER. EXEMPT FROM
GENERAL DECLASSIFICATION SCHEDULE OF E.9. 11652, EXEMPTION
CATEOGRY 58 (2). IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE DATE OF AUTOMATIC
DECLASSIFICATION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY 20
PER
TOTAL COPIES 31
BY
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
BY AT Z
AGENCY MESSAGE
1
4
RF. FILE. VR IP/AN SSS, PS/EG4
2
5
ACTION
WHY
3
6
184
T 535956
PAGE 01-01
IN 031535
TOR:1718432 SEP 73
SAGO 26500
SECRET 1718142 SEP 73 STAFF
CITE SANTIAGO 26500
TO: PRIORITY MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR.
FUORACLE FUOMEN
REFS: A. MEXICO CITY 25196 CIN 031341)
B. SANTIAGO 26484 (INO30951)
1. CONCUR PARA ONE REF A REQUEST.
2. FILE: 15-124-53/3, E2 IMPDET

![signature]
C/WH/5
DC/VW
WH/6/F
WH/C/RR
WH/6/Sec'y

![signature]
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

CABLE BEC DISSEM BY

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY MSUED/BLOTTER

ACTION UNIT

ACTION:
138
T 535509

TOTAL COPIES 10.1

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
SOUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AGENCY MESSAGE

PAGE 01-01
IN 031341
TOR:1715582 SEP 73
MEXI 25196

SECRET 1715412 SEP 73 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 25196

TO: PRIORITY SANTIAGO INFO DIRECTOR.

FUORACLE

REF. SANTIAGO 26464

1. BELIEVE GIST OF REF WOULD BE MOST USEFUL IF PASSED TO PRESIDENT ECHEVERRIA AS IF IT WERE A FUOMEN ITEM. REQUEST SANTIAGO CONCURRENCE.

2. FOR DIRECTOR: OFFICIAL MEXICAN GOVT POLICY IS COMPLETE SYMPATHY FOR ALLENDE. PRESIDENT ECHEVERRIA MET MRS. ALLENDE AT AIRPORT 16 SEPT AND HAD ALREADY DECREED THREE DAYS OF OFFICIAL MOURNING FOR DEATH OF PRESIDENT ALLENDE 17-19 SEPT. UNLESS WE CAN GET INFORMATION ON TRUE FACTS IN CHILE TO PRESIDENT ECHEVERRIA DIRECTLY, THE LITTLE MEDIA PLAY WHICH MEXICO CITY PRESENTLY CAPABLE OF MUSTERING WILL BE LOST IN AVALANCHE OF SPONTANEOUS, PLANTED AND GOVT APPROVED PRO-ALLENDE MATERIAL APPEARING LOCALLY. THE CONSENSUS OF MANY MEXICANS IS THAT THE U.S. AND CIA IN PARTICULAR MASTERMINDED THE COUP.

3. FILE: 15-124-53/3. E2 IMPDET.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

CABLE BEC DISSEM D

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
ACTION UNIT
WH B
ACTION
T 532968

PAGE 01-01
TOR:1515472 SEP 73

SECRET 151536Z SEP 73 STAFF

CITE MEXICO CITY 25191

TO: DIRECTOR.

KDOBELISK (FUOMEN)

REF: DIRECTOR 454587

1. GIST OF INFORMATION CONTAINED IN REF WAS PASSED TO KDOBELISK-1 THROUGH KDGLACIER-3 ON 13 SEPT 73. ON 14 SEPT KDGLACIER-3 TOLD GRANDGENT THAT KDOBELISK-1 WAS VERY APPRECIATIVE OF THIS REPORT. KDOBELISK-1 IS RECEIVING NO INFORMATION FROM HIS EMBASSY IN SANTIAGO AT THIS TIME AND HAS TO DEPEND ON NEWS RELEASES FROM CHILE AND ARGENTINA WHICH HE CONSIDERS TO BE OF DUBIOUS ACCURACY.

2. FILE: 52-6-91/3. S2. IMPDET.

![Fuomew signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

# SECRET 1322332 SEP 73 STAFF

CITE SANTIAGO 26421

TO: IMMEDIATE DIRECTOR PRIORITY BUENOS AIRES, LA PAZ, BRASILIA,
BOGOTA, SAN JOSE, SANTO DOMINGO, QUITO, WH/MIAMI, GUATEMALA CITY,
GEORGETOWN, TEGUCIGALPA, KINGSTON, MEXICO CITY, MANAGUA, PANAMA CITY.
ASUNCION, LIMA, SAN SALVADOR, MONTEVIDEC, CARACAS, LONDON, PARIS,
LCPIPIT, BONN..

1. EL MERCURIO: A MAJOR CONSERVATIVE SANTIAGO DAILY, APPEARED
   TODAY (13 SEPTEMBER) CARRYING FOR MOST PART OFFICIAL DECLARATIONS
   BY THE CHILEAN JUNTA, THE FOLLOWING EDITORIAL AND ARTICLES, HOWEVER,
   APPEAR WORTH REPLAYINGI

A. HACIA LA RECUPERACIÓN NACIONAL

CON DISTINTOS LENGUAJES Y CRITERIOS, LAS PERSONALIDADES
POLITICAS, LOS DIRIGENTES GREMIALES Y LAS INSTITUCIONES MAS
INFLUYENTES RECLAMABAN UN CAMBIO PROFUNDO EN LA DIRECCION DEL PAIS
TANTO LA OPINION PUBLIC NACIONAL COMO LA EXTRANJERA HABIAN
LLEGADO A LA EVIDENCIA DE QUE CHILE ENTRADA EN UN PROCESO FATAL
QUE DEBIA LLEVARLO A LA DICTADURA MARXISTA O A LA GUERRA CIVIL
LA INTERVENCION DE LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS, VINO EN ESTE CASGE
A LIBERAR A LA CIUDADANIA DE LA INMINENTE DICTADURA MARXISTA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

SECRET

AGENCY MESSAGE

T 527885
PAGE 02
TOR:1323242 SEP 73
IN 028495
SAGO 26421

YA SALVAR A CHILE DEL ANIQUILAMIENTO POLITICC, SOCIAL, Y ECONOMICO. SE ABREN AHORA PERSPECTIVAS DE RECUPERACION MEDIANTE UN INTENSO Y DISCIPLINADO ESFUERZO QUE RESTABLEZCA EL HABITO DEL TRABAJO. NORMALICE LAS FAENAS, DETENGA LA DESTRUCCION DEL PATRIMONIO NACIONAL Y REINICIE EL PROCESO DE CAPITALIZACION INDISPENSABLE AL FUTURO BIENESTAR.

CON INNEGABLE SACRIFICIO Y ABNEGATION, LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS HAS CUMPLIDO SU PAPEL DE SALVAGUARDIA ULTIMA DE LA INSTITUCIONALIDAD. PERO LA DURA TAREA QUE IMPONE RESTANAR LAS HERIDAS Y REANUDAR LA MARCHA DE LA NACION EXIGE EL APOYO RESUELTO DE AQUELLA MAYORIZ CUIDADANA QUE, EN TODOS LOS TONOS, HA PEDIDO UNA HONDA RECTIFICACION.

EL QUEBRANTAMIENTO CONSTITUCIONAL PROVOCADO POR EL MARXISMO NO PUDO SOLDARSE CON LAS SCLAS INICIATIVAS DE LOS PARTIDOS POLITICOS. LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS Y CARABINEROS NO DESEABAN NI HAD DESEADO NUNCA TOMAR SOBRE SI LA RESPONSIBILIDAD DE CONDUCIR LOS DESTINOS DE LA NACION, PERO EL DRAMATICO FRACASO DE LA UNIDAD POPULAR Y LAS LIMITACIONES DEL CUADRO POLITICO OPOSITOR PARA CONSEGUIR EL INDISPENSABLE CAMBIO DE RUMBO FORZARON LA SITUACION HASTA EL PUNC EN QUE SE ENCUENTRA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

PAGE 23

CHILE TIENE UN GOBIERNO MILITAR, FORMADO POR LOS SENORES
COMANDANTES EN JEFE DE LAS TRES RAMAS DE LA DEFENSE NACIONAL
Y EL SENOR GENERAL DIRECTOR DE CARABINEROS. LA JUNTA MILITAR
HA ASUMIDO EL MANDO SUPREMO. RESPETANDO EXPRESAMENTE LAS ATRI-
BUCIONES DEL PODER JUDICIAL, CONTANDO CON LA ASESORIA DE LA
CONTRALORIA GENERAL DE LA REPUBLICA Y DISPONIENDO EL RECESO DEL
PARLAMENTC. DE ESTE MODO LA JUNTA CREE ENCONTRAR EL CAMINO
ADECUADO PARA INSTAURAR LA INSTITUCIONALIDAD QUE SE REQUIERE.
LAS RESERVAS QUE ESTA POSICION DE LA JUNTA PUEDAN INSPIRAR
A CIERTOS SECTORES POLITICOS NO PUEDEN SER TAN ABSOLUTAS QUE
LLEGUEN HASTA NEGAR EL CONCURSO DE TODOS LOS CHILENOS AL ESFUERZO
DE RECONSTRUCCION DE SU PATRIA. POR EL CONTRARIO, A TRAVES
DE LA JUNTA, ES CHILE MISMO EL QUE JUEGA LA CARTA DEFINITIVA
PARA TRIUNFAR DEL ODIO. DE LA DESUNION, DEL DESALIENTO Y DE LA
DECADENCIA. LA LABOR IMPONE LA ACCION DE TODAS LAS CAPACIDADES
Y LA COLABORACION DE TODA LA CUIDADANIA, ESPECIALMENTE DE
AQUELLOS CHILENOS QUE POR SU INDIFERENTISMO, SU INDECISION,
SU EGOISMO O SU PEREZA HAN GENERADO LAS CONDICIONES QUE PER-
MITIERON EL DESARROLLO DE LA IDEOLOGIA MARXISTA Y SU LLEGADA
AL PODER EN 1970 GRACIAS A LA DIVISION DE LAS FUERZAS DEMOCRATICAS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

## PAGE 04
TOR:132324Z SEP 73 IN 028495
SAGO 26421

EL PAIS HA VIVIDO VIRTUALMENTE AL MARGEN DE LA CONSTITUCIÓN
Y ABSORBIENDO GRANDES DOSIS DE IDEOLOGIA EXTRANJERA ACOMPANDA
TAMBIEN DE GUERRILLEROS EXTRANJEROS. A NADIE PUEDE
SURPRENDER QUE EL REMEDIO A TAN DESESPERADA SITUACION SEA DE
CARACTER EXTRAORDINARIO Y SE LE ADMINISTRE PROPORCIONADAMENTE
A LA VIOLENCIA QUE OPONGA EL MAL ANTE DE SER DOMINADO.

EN MEDIO DE LAS DIFICULTADES. LO UNICO QUE RECLAMA EL PATRIOTIS-
MO ES TRABAJO. ESPIRITU DE SOLIDARIDAD Y COLABORACIÓN PARA EL
ESTABLECIMIENTO DEL ORDEN INSTITUCIONAL.

B. EXPRESO PRESIDENTE DE CORTE SUPREMA -- COMPLACENCIA
DEL PODER JUDICIAL

EL PRESIDENTE DE LA CORTE SUPREME, ENRIQUE URRUTIA MANZANO,
ENTREGO LA SIGUIENTE DECLARACION:

"EL PRESIDENTE DE LA CORTE SUPREMA, EN CONOCIMIENTO DEL
PROPOSITO DEL NUEVO GOBIERNO DE RESPETAR Y HACER CUMPLIR LAS
DECISIONES DEL PODER JUDICIAL SIN EXAMEN PROVIO DE SU LEGALIDAD,
COMO LO ORDENA EL ARTICULO 11 DEL CODIGO ORGANICO DE TRIBUNALES.
MANIFIESTA PUBLICAMENTE POR ELLO SU MAS INTIMA COMPLACENCIA
EN NOMBRE DE LA ADMINISTRACION DE JUSTICIA DE CHILE. Y ESPERA
QUE EL PODER JUDICIAL COMPLA CON SU DEBER, COMO LO HA HECHO LASTA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

CABLE SEC DISSEM BY
PER
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED.
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED
AGENCY MESSAGE
ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/SLOTTED
BY
AT
Z
ACTION UNIT
RP.
FILE.
VR.
ACTION
T 527885
PAGE 05
IN 028495
TOR:1323242 SEP 73
SAGO 26421
AHORA, SANTIAGO, 12 DE SEPTIEMBRE DE 1973. FIRMA: ENRIQUE
URRUTIA MANZANO, PRESIDENTE DE LA CORTE SUPREMA”,
C. ACTIVIDADES DE FF.AA. Y CARABINEROS --
150 CUBANOS EXTREMISTAS EXPULSADOS AYER DEL PAIS
ALLANADA-UNIVERSIDAD TECNICA DEL ESTADO. TENDICION DE 600
PERSONAS.
REDUCCION DE EXTREMISTAS.
INCAUTACION DE ARMAS EN INDUSTRIAS E INSTITUCIONES BANCARIAS.
CONTROL DE LA MONEDA, TOMAS MORO Y "CANAVERAL" EN EL ARRAYAN.
CIENTO CINCUENTA CUBANOS EXTREMISTAS FUERON EXPULSADOS
AYER DEL PAIS POR LA JUNTA MILITAR DE GOBIERNO, SEGUN EL BANDO
NO. 26 QUE DETALLA LAS ACTIVADES PRINCIPALES DESARROLLADAS POR
LAS FUERZAS ARMADAS Y CARABINEROS EN LAS ULTIMAS HORAS EN LA
GUARNICION DE SANTIAGO.
LA COMUNICACION SENALA QUE FUE ALLANADA LA UNIVERSIDAD
TECNICA DEL ESTADO. DONDE SE RINDIERON 600 PERSONAS, Y SE
ENCONTRO GRAN CANTIDAD DE ARMAMENTO, ASI COMO INDUSTRIAS,
ENTIDADES BANCARLAS Y OTROS RECINTOS EN LOS CUALES LOS EFECTIVOS
MILITARES SE INCAUTARON DE ARMAS Y EXPLOSIVOS...
2. FILE: 15-124-52. E2 IMPDET
SECRET
15-124-52


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)