# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III

15 November 1974

ANNEX B

## THE 201 SYSTEM

Rescission: Annex B of Chapter III, CSUR 70-1-1, 27 October 1966

1. INTRODUCTION

The 201 system provides a method for identifying a person of specific interest to the Operations Directorate and for controlling and filing all pertinent information about that person. The system also provides a means for identifying subjects of 201 files from various categories of information about them and for producing lisits of 201 personalities according to those categories. Only a relatively small number of personalities indexed are of sufficient interest to justify opening a 201 dossier. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, members of groups and organizations of continuing target interest, or subjects on whom a volume of correspondence has accumulated.

2. THE 201 SYSTEM

The principal features of the 201 system are:

a. *The 201 Number:* a unique number, i.e., 201-1234567, assigned to each individual in the system to serve as identifying file number for reporting on that individual.

b. *The 201 Dossier:* the official file containing the 201 opening form (Form 831) and all biographic reporting on and references to the individual, i.e., personal history, current status, and prospects.

c. *The Master 201 Record:* a machine-record generated by the opening of a 201 file. This record produces the master 201 reference for the Main Index and stores the pertinent information which may later be retrieved for special listings.

d. *Main Index Master 201 Reference:* this reference, printed in reply to an Index Search Request, is printed as illustrated below. When data are absent within the record, succeeding data items or lines will be moved up and the reference consolidated.

23


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000

SECRET
DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

![data 1-14]

Information About Subject

1. Sequence Number and Name

2. Sex and Date of Birth

3. Citizenship

4. Place of Birth

5. Occupation

6. Occupation Code

7. Text

Document Reference Data Group

8. 201 Number

9. Name Type Indicator

10. OI Codes

11. Record Date (year only)

12. Reference

ISG Control Information

13. Date of latest update of the record

14. STAR Index Record Number

24

SECRET

0001764

PAGE 3 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

"e. *OI Code:* a two letter symbol used in conjunction with the 201 per- sonality records in the 201 system to record the association of an individual with organizations or activities of operational interest. OI codes cover intelli- gence and security service affiliation, whether staff or agent, or known or suspect, as well as activities of DDO interest. There are two categories of OI codes for use by components:

(1) general OI codes (Attachment)

(2) OI codes assigned to a specific component for intelligence services or other specific organizations

A component may request an OI code be established by submitting a mem- orandum to the DDO/RMO through the component Records Management Officer.

A 201 personality may be assigned two OI codes. An OI code may be assigned when the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) is initiated (see paragraph 3b below) by filling in Box 13 or a code may be assigned or added at a later date by a Form 831 amendment.

The 201 system has the capability of producing machine listings of 201 personalities by OI codes. For example, if an OI code has been opened for the security service of a certain country a listing may be compiled of all members of that service.

f. *201 Machine Lists:* produced from the mechanized 201 Index, based on names or other identifying information of personalities on whom 201 dossiers exist.

3. OPENING A 201 DOSSIER

a. General

The opening of a 201 dossier is the prerogative of an operational com- ponent, in coordination with the Information Services Group. An opening creates a master 201 record; changes to the master record and the occasional closing of a 201 dossier are controlled jointly by outside desks and ISC. 201 dossiers may be opened on persons who meet the screening criteria described in Chapter II of this handbook, when there is a reasonable expectation that additional information will be acquired and filed in such a dossier. Generally dossiers are opened on persons about whom counterintelligence information is being reported, and per- sons of operational interest to the Operations Directorate, specifically those persons for whom provisional operational approvals and operational approvals are requested (see exception below). 201 files are not to be opened on staff employees, staff agents and most categories of contract employees. Files on

25

SECRET

PAGE 4 of 20


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

persons who are only of local interest to a field station or Headquarters desk
and on whom no DDO records correspondence exists are not a part of the DDO
records system and are to be maintained by that unit. Some desks levy require-
ments on ISG for automatic 201 openings on certain categories of persons whose names appear in incoming dispatches. These are listed in Attachment 2. 201 dossiers should be opened in the following categories:

(1) Subjects of provisional operational approval and operational approval requests. However a file need not be opened when a POA is requested for persons being trained for a foreign liaison service and who are of opera- tional interest for training purposes only.

(2) Persons for whom the field requests a 201 opening.

(3) MHFIXTURE personalities: bonafide diplomats of other than denied area countries, in close association with staff personnel.

(4) Subjects of a Personal Record Questionnaire Part I.

(5) Persons on whom a Main Index search reveals information in five or more documents (see DOI 70-20).

(6) Subjects of Interagency Source Register memoranda from LSN/ ISR (opened only by IP/RMS).

b. Requesting a 201 File Opening

Headquarters desks may open a 201 file by filling out and submitting a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) to the Records Main- tenance Section (IP/RMS). Form 831 is also used to create or amend the master 201 record and 201 machine listings and to register the assign- ment of a cryptonym to a 201 personality. Attachment 3 consists of sample 201 Personality File Action Requests for opening and amending 201's. A field station may request the opening of a 201 file by writing 201- in the Head- quarters file or cross-reference box on the dispatch form and/or after the subject's name in the body of the dispatch. A telepouch request for a 201 opening is made by indicating 201- in the file number line. A cable request is made by placing 201- after the term "File" on the last line of the transmission. IP/AN will open 201 files as requested by dispatch or telepouch but it is the responsi- bility of the desk to respond to cable requests. Field stations are notified of 201 openings through receipt of the field master 201 record.

26

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

4. CONTENTS OF THE DOSSIER

Information about a 201 personality should be filed or cross-referenced into his dossier. When additional information is discovered on a 201 subject through a name trace or other process, i.e., review of predecessor documents, it must be consolidated into his personality dossier. See DOI 70-20 for consolidation procedures.

Material which is filed in the dossier includes but is not limited to:

a. 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831).

b. Biographic information including photographs, fingerprints, and handwriting samples.

c. Personal Record Questionnaire Parts I and II.

d. Operational and other security approvals.

e. Name check replies, requests, clearances, and approvals.

f. Acknowledgement of pseudonym.

g. 201 personality assessments and evaluations.

h. Copy of contract and termination papers.

i. Secrecy agreement.

j. Agent Duty Status Report.

k. Training and evaluation.

l. SGSWIRL report.

m. Newspaper clippings.

n. Any information which may provide a better understanding of the subject and our interest in him; this may include operational reporting.

5. MAINTENANCE OF 201 DOSSIERS

The 201 personality dossier contains, in document date order, papers which have been made a part of the Central Records System as well as those which have not. Record documents may range from newspaper or magazine articles on the subject to finance and other administrative papers.

26.1

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

a. Purging

Purging a 201 dossier is the responsibility of the desk officer. It requires discrimination in recognizing operationally useful material, rather than the simple distinction between official and unofficial papers; it will therefore take place under the supervision of a Records Officer. Purging should be done periodically. A 201 dossier being forwarded to Central Files for retention should be purged. A 201 dossier should be purged of the following:

(1) Duplicate material, i.e, exact copy(s) of a document.

(2) Name trace (Form 362) unless it has been the basis for the opening.

(3) All abstract slips.

(4) All document restriction notices (Form 1884).

(5) The disseminated version of positive intelligence information if a copy of the raw report is contained in the 201 file; the dissemination number then must be transferred to the first page of the raw report.

(6) Routing slips, routing and record sheets (Form 610) and dispatch cover sheets unless there are remarks such as coordinations or comments.

(7) Record copy documents which only repeat substantive information contained in other documents in the file; authorization for destruction is by the Records Officer.

(8) Top Secret documents are not to be retained in a 201 dossier forwarded to Central Files; the document must be downgraded for retention in the 201 dossier. To downgrade a Top Secret document, an authorized officer in the originating office or the Records Officer having jurisdiction over the contents of the material must possess Top Secret classification authority. If the document cannot be downgraded the file should be retained at the desk or the copy of the TS document should be removed, retained in a desk TS file or forwarded to the Top Secret Control Officer, and a cross-reference sheet (Form 867) placed in the 201 file giving the location of the TS document.

(9) Deferred documents (see 5b(2)).

b. Maintenance Procedures

(1) All material in a 201 dossier will be filed in document date order. In the case of document attachments which have been classified into a 201

26.2

SECRET

0001768

PAGE 7 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

dossier and separated from the basic document by the assignment of a slash number, the attachment will be filed by the date of the basic document.

(2) Deferred documents will not be filed in a 201 dossier. If they are to be retained in the dossier they should be sent to MYRMS for classification into that 201.

(3) Field index cards and area desk cards may be retained in the 201 as part of a consolidation procedure. These cards should be mounted on full-size sheet of paper for filing in the 201.

(4) A 201 dossier previously opened on a person who becomes a staff employee and which contains Record Copy documents will be restricted to the ISG/DIP unless the desk retains the restriction. The dossier should be closed if there are no Record Copy documents in it.

(5) A 201 opened in pseudonym should be consolidated into the true name 201 if one exists or converted to the true name.

(6) Field and duplicate (shadow) 201 files no longer of active interest should be incorporated into the official 201 after the duplicate material has been purged by the desk officer and the remaining information classified to that 201 by the Analysis Section (IP/AN).

(7) Any document with a predecessor organization cover sheet or an OPC (Office of Policy Coordination) cover sheet from the Archives and Disposition Section (IP/ARD) must be returned to IP/ARD for processing to the 201.

(8) Desk memoranda (without a document source number) containing substantive derogatory information on the subject of the 201 should be sent to to be classified officially into the 201 file.

(9) An attachment which should be separated from its basic document for inclusion in a 201 dossier will be forwarded with the basic document to IP/AN for processing into the 201.

(10) To retain the P&L, RYBAT, or KAPOK sensitivity of a document remaining in a 201 dossier being retired to Central Files, place that document in an envelope sealed with black tape (see DOI 70-17). Any RYBAT, P&L, or KAPOK document sent to Central Files not in a black-taped envelope will automatically be handled as desensitized. A black-taped envelope may contain only one document and must be filed in chronological order within the file. If there are numerous documents of this type the desk officer may black- tape the entire dossier rather than individual documents (see DOI 70-10).

26.3

SECRET

0001769

PAGE 8 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 November 1974

Black-taped dossiers or dossiers with black-taped documents will be handled as restricted dossiers.

(11) An inactive 201 dossier or an inactive volume of a large 201 dossier on permanent charge should be returned to Central Files under a Routing and Record Sheet with the notation shown below.

|                                                      |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ☐ UNCLASSIFIED                                       | ☐ CONFIDENTIAL  ☑ SECRET                    |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| SUBJECT: (Optional)                                  | ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET                    |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| TRANSMITTAL OF INACTIVE 201 DOSSIERS                 |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| FROM:                                                | EXTENSION NO.                               |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE                                        |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| NO.                                                  | DATE                                        | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 1.                                                   | IP/Files GC-52                              | RECEIVED           | FORWARDED                                                                                               |     | (For guidance see CSHB 70-1-1, Chapter III, Annex B.)                                                                     |
| 2.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     | Volume(s) # ______ of ______ volume(s) of 201-                                                                            |
| 3.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 4.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 5.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     | ☐ Restricted Dossier (Attach Form 2021 to Dossier)                                                                        |
| 6.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 7.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     | ☐ Non-Restricted Dossier                                                                                                  |
| 8.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 9.                                                   |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     | For Split Charge Dossiers:                                                                                                |
| 10.                                                  |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     | All documents prior to __________(date) forwarded to IP/Files. All forwarded to __________(date) picked at ________ desk. |
| 11.                                                  |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 12.                                                  |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 13.                                                  |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 14.                                                  |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| 15.                                                  |                                             |                    |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |
| FORM 3-74 610E                                       | ☑ SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ INTERNAL USE ONLY | CL BY: 007622      |                                                                                                         |     |                                                                                                                           |

26.4

SECRET

0001770


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

6. 201 DOSSIER CHARGES

A 201 dossier may be kept on permanent charge at the desk during any period of active interest. If the dossier is transferred to another desk, the desk officer who is transferring the dossier must notify Central Files of the transfer. Central Files will then send the Notice of Transfer of Document or File Accountability (Form 2977) to the new action desk officer.

NOTICE OF TRANSFER OF DOCUMENT OR FILE ACCOUNTABILITY

| TO:                                                                                                                                                | NAME               | BADGE    | COMPONENT            | ROOM      | TUBE             | EXT.                |          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------ | -------- | -------------------- | --------- | ---------------- | ------------------- | -------- |
|                                                                                                                                                    |                    |          |                      |           |                  |                     |          |
| This is to notify you that accountability for the document(s) and/or file(s) cited below has been transferred to you by:                           | NAME               | BADGE    | COMPONENT            | EXT.      |                  |                     |          |
|                                                                                                                                                    |                    |          |                      |           |                  |                     |          |
| Accordingly, IP's records now reflect you as the custodian. Please contact IP/Files, Ext. 4362, if you have any questions regarding this transfer. | SUBJECT OF REQUEST | FILE NO. | DOC. SYMBOL & NUMBER | DOC. DATE | DATE OF TRANSFER | CHARGE PERM OR TEMP | REG. NO. |
|                                                                                                                                                    |                    |          |                      |           |                  |                     |          |

FORM 2977 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

The new action desk officer must then fill out a 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 813) to change the action desk designation to insure that the 201 personality will be included in the Headquarters and field machine listings for his component.

7. RESTRICTED DOSSIERS

a. Access to a sensitive 201 dossier may be restricted by holding the file at the desk or placing it on restriction in Central Files.

(1) The dossier may be restricted by checking Box 2 on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) when the file is opened.

26.5

SECRET

![page 10 of 20]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

(2) The dossier may be restricted by holding it on permanent charge
from Central Files. (Note: To maintain the restriction of a dossier being
returned to Central Files for retention, a File Restriction Notice (Form
2021) must accompany the dossier.

(3) The dossier may be restricted and held in Central Files by sub-
mitting a File Restriction Notice (Form 2021).

| TO           | PAGE      | INITIALS | FILE RESTRICTION NOTICE                                                      |
| ------------ | --------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| IP/FI        |           |          |                                                                              |
| GC-52        | TUBE DT-6 |          |                                                                              |
| IP/DCU       |           |          |                                                                              |
| GC-40        | TUBE HT-4 |          |                                                                              |
| ACTION DESK: |           |          | 1. To restrict a file, complete Section A (signature of R.O. not necessary). |
|              |           |          | 2. To remove a restriction, complete Section B (R.O. signature necessary).   |
|              |           |          | FILE NUMBER                                                                  |
| SECTION A    |           |          | RESTRICT TO: (Use country or non-country code number. See CSI 70-28)         |
|              |           |          | RESTRICTED BY:                                                               |
|              |           |          | (NAME) Date:                                                                 |
| COMPONENT:   |           |          |                                                                              |
| SECTION B    |           |          | REMOVE RESTRICTION (AUTHORIZED BY)                                           |
|              |           |          | R.O. No.                                                                     |
| COMPONENT:   |           |          | Date:                                                                        |
| FORM 2021    |           |          | CONFIDENTIAL E-2. IMPDET CL. BY: CG7622 (13) USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS           |

b. Access to a restricted dossier located in Central Files is limited to the
personnel of the restricting desk or persons authorized by that desk. Any request
for the charge of a restricted dossier or any document within a restricted dossier
held in Central Files will be forwarded with the entire dossier and a multiple-
routed cover sheet to the restricting desk. This desk may then forward the file
to the requester or deny the request and return the dossier to Central Files. The
desk will notify the requester of a denial.

c. Anyone requesting a restricted dossier, or a document within a restricted
dossier, permanently or temporarily charged to a desk, will be referred to that
desk by Central Files.

26.6

SECRET

0001772

PAGE 11 of 28
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

8. REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION ON 201 PERSONALITIES

The Automated Index Section (IP/AIS) will provide the identity of the subject of a 201 number unless the 201 file is restricted, in which case the requester will be referred to the restricting desk.

IP/AIS will also provide the 201 number assigned to a name, unless the 201 file is restricted, or state that there is no 201 number assigned. Requesters should supply identifying information whenever available for each name submitted.

Requests pertaining to five or fewer names or numbers may be made by telephone by calling the IP/AIS red line extension; IP/AIS will provide the information by return call to the requester's extension as listed in the Badge Table. Requests for more than five names or numbers must be listed and sent by tube or courier to IP/AIS; IP/AIS will reply by return mail.

9. 201 DOSSIER CANCELLATION

A 201 file may be authorized for cancellation by a Records Officer, after appropriate coordination. The file should be forwarded to IP/RMS which will destroy the folder and the cards leading to it and will remove the name and number from machine lists. Any Record Copy document contained in the folder will be reclassified to another appropriate file or sent to the Destruction Unit (IP/DU) as directed by the desk Records Officer.

10. 201 MACHINE LISTINGS

Machine listings provide field stations and Headquarters desks with names and 201 numbers in the requester's particular geographic or functional area of interest. If a component wishes to exclude a sensitive 201 personality from its alphabetic, numeric, and cryptonym listings, this may be done when opening the 201 or later by a 201 amendment. On the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831) leave the country of location (Box 15) and interest desk (Box 16) blank, use the non country code 900 in the action box (Box 14), and indicate permanent charge to the responsible desk The only listing which will include the 201 number is the IP/201 record for the Vital Records program. 201 listings are categorized as standard or nonstandard and as scheduled or special.

a. Standard Listings

Issued semi-annually to Headquarters and the field; based on a component's interest as indicated in the "Action Desk," "Country of Location," and "Interest

26.7

SECRET

0001773

PAGE 12 of 28
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Desk" blocks on the 201 Personality File Action Request (Form 831). The standard listings available are:

(1) Alphabetical by surname leading to a 201 number;

(2) Alphabetical by given name, leading to a 201 number;

(3) Alphabetical by cryptonym, leading to a 201 number;

(4) Numerical, leading to a surname;

(5) Numerical, leading to a cryptonym.

FUL A CHINA
201 SURNAME ALPHA LIST
SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE ONLY
03 OCT 1973

| NAME                            | TYPE | DOB DA/MO/YR    | BIRTHPLACE CTRY CITY       | OCC. CIT.  | 201     | 01-1 | 01-2 | ACT. LOC. | INT. CLRY |
| ------------------------------- | ---- | --------------- | -------------------------- | ---------- | ------- | ---- | ---- | --------- | --------- |
| CHEN, SHOU I. /7115/1343/5030/  |      | 17JUL14         | CHIN, KHANG TUNG           | DIPT CHIN? | 0165401 |      |      | CHIN HK   |           |
| CHEN, SHOU I /7115/1343/0001/   | A    | 24JAM11         | CHIN, AWOY                 |            | 0230059 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CHEN, SHOU I. /7115/1343/0001/  |      | 90              | CHIN, AWOY                 |            | 79653   |      |      |           |           |
| CHEN, SHOU-JEN /6774/1108/0038  |      | 04JAN19         | CHIN, FUXIEN, PROV.        | BUSP CCOM7 | 0343751 |      |      | CHIN HK   |           |
| CHEY, SHOU WEI                  |      | 21OCTOB         | CHIN, MANCHUPIA, PORT ARTH | CHIN?      | 0234629 |      |      | CHIN CUBA |           |
| CHEN, SHOU-MING /7109/1343/690  | A    | 12NOV22         | CHIN, HUNAN                | CHAT       | 0179620 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CHEN, SHOU SIH /7115/1109/001   |      | 1PHAR45         | CHIN                       | CHAT       | 0069796 |      |      | CHIN      |           |
| CHEN, SHOU-TAN                  |      | C41             | CHEN, CANTON               | DIPT CCOM  | 0905390 |      |      | CHIN HALT |           |
| CFSH-150 /7115/1109/1           |      | 02SEP26         | CHIN, LIACNIC PRO          | ENGR CHAT  | 3255    |      |      | CHIN TAIW |           |
| CHEN, SHOU 126 /0701/1343/1807  | A    | 12JAN18         | CHIN, FUKIEN               | CHIN?      | 0130415 |      |      | CHIN HK   |           |
| CHIEN, SHOU-YEI /7115/1109/495  |      | 09JUN99         | CHIN, CANTON               | CCOM?      | 0091803 |      |      | CHIN USA  |           |
| CHEN, SHOU-YI                   |      | 190CT19         | CHIN, KATIGTING PROV       | PROF CHIN? | 0040209 |      |      | CHIN HWAT |           |
| CHEN, SHU-CHIN /7115/2005/6930  | A    | 02JUL30         | CHIN, KHANGTUNG PROV.      | CHAT?      | 005263A |      |      | CHIN TAIW |           |
| CHEN, SHU-CHUAN /7115/3219/122  |      | 19              | CHIN, KHANG TUNG PAGV.     | CNAT       | 0328328 |      |      | CHIN HK   |           |
| CHEN, SHU-CHUAN /7115/2985/2    |      | NOV30           | CHIN, XUAN TANG IS         | CHIN?      | 0124438 |      |      |           |           |
| CHEN, SHU CHUAN /7115/2985/2797 | R    | CIAC22          | 11X                        | CHAT       | 0797335 |      |      | CHIN HX   |           |
| CHEN, SHU FEN                   |      | 08JUL14         | CHIN. PFILIU.              | TSEA CHAT  | 0797335 |      |      |           |           |
| CHEN, SHU HO /7115/2885/3105/   |      | 10              | CHIN, KHANGTUNG            | CHINT      | 0200223 |      |      | CHIN ETHI |           |
| CHEN, SHU HSIANG /7115/2579/74  | A    |                 | CHIN, FUKIEN               | :          | 0488577 |      |      | CHEN CHIN |           |
| CS-510 /7115/2995/7             |      | 23FER07         | CHIN                       | CHINT      | 0179621 |      |      |           |           |
| CHEN, SHU HSIN /7115/2835/8133  | V    | 05MAY18         | CHIN, KHANGTUNG            | CHIN?      | 0044759 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CHEN, SHU HUI /7115/2835/8133   |      | 30MAR26         | CHIN, FOOCHCH              | CCO?       | 0023125 |      |      |           |           |
| C. SHU-HUA                      | A    |                 |                            | CHIN?      | 0172622 |      |      | CHEN      |           |
| CHEN, SHUI-I /7115/2885/5030/   |      | 06FEB16         | CHIN, HOPEI                | DIPT CCOM  | 0223161 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CHEN, SHU KWEI /7115/2885/2710  | R    | 27NOV23         | CHIN, FANG CHENG           | DIPT CCCH  | 0175673 |      |      | CHIN CEY  |           |
| CHEN, SHUU LAN                  |      |                 | CHIN                       | REDA CHINT | 0830155 |      |      | CHIN USA  |           |
| CHEN, SHU LIANG /7115/0647/009  |      | CIRCA2E         | CHIN                       | CHIN?      | 0221972 |      |      | CHIN      |           |
| CHEN, SHU LIN /7115/2579/2651/  |      | 25NOV 20-       | CHIN, FEGSHUN              | SAINT      | 0223162 |      |      | CHEN CHIN |           |
| CHEN, SHU-LING /7109/2473/010   | A    | 01JUL29         | CHIN, KIANGSU              | CHIN?      | 0179624 |      |      | CHIN TAIM |           |
| CF SHU-MIN                      |      | 2056°20'        | CHIN. HSCA                 | CCOM       | 0854450 |      |      |           |           |
| CHEN, SHU PAO /7115/2885/0589   | A    | 150PR30.        | CHIN.CHFAGM                | CHAT       | 0096947 |      |      | CHIN LACS |           |
| CHEN, SHU-PAO /7115/2579/0202/  |      | 19DEC19         | CHIN                       | CAMO CHIN? | 0179625 |      |      | CHEN USA  |           |
| CHEN, SHU-SEN /7115/2885/2773/  | A    | 10DEC26         | CHIN                       | CHINT      | 0052638 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CHIEN, SHU-SHAN /7115/2579/091  |      | 27JAN25         | CHIN                       | NAT?       | 0005119 |      |      | CHIN HWAI |           |
| CHEN, SHU-TE /7115/2495/1795/   | V    | 21MAR23         | CHIN                       | CHINT      | 0103219 |      |      | CHEN TAIW |           |
| CHEN, SHU TEH /475/             |      | CIPCAS          | CHIN                       | CHINT      | 0763816 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CFN, SHU TING /7115/0647/6639   |      | CHYY, CHANG     | CHIN                       | CIPCAS     | 0013991 |      |      | SHU       |           |
| COP, SHU 120 /7115/2935/2737/   |      | 05APR17         | CHIA                       | CHIN?      | 0153929 |      |      | CHEN AUC  |           |
| CUCI SOL /7115/0647/0317/       | A    | 02FER0          | CHIN, MENG YANG HSIEN, HUN | ARMY       | 0340529 |      |      | CHIN      |           |
| CHEN, SHU-YAO /7115/2695/1031   | Y    | 11NOV06Cill     | CHIN, CHEKLANG             | INT        | 0313610 |      |      | CHIN DENK |           |
| CHEN, SHU-YI                    |      | 15JUNOG         | CHIN, SHANGHAI             | CHIM?      | 0144010 |      |      | CHIN CHIN |           |
| CHER, SHU YUN /7115/2885/5391/  | V    | 17FF139         | CHIN, S/1CHHAN             | CIIEN      | 0767442 |      |      | C TAIW    |           |
| CHI, SHU-YUN /7115/2579/6992/   |      | 17115/2579/3942 |                            | 0767442    |         |      |      |           |           |
| YU-YU                           |      | 21APP 21        |                            | CHEN?      | 0144758 |      |      |           |           |

SECRET/ORGANIZATION INTERNAL USE DILY
EZ14PORT CLAY 054973

PAGE 150

26.8

SECRET

0001774

PAGE 13 of 22
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1-
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

All standard. listings are cumulative; previous editions *must be destroyed*
upon receipt of current editions. These listings are by their very nature extremely
sensitive compilations of information and must be given every possible safeguard.

b. Non-Standard Listings

Based on one or more of the following selection criteria:

(1) Country of
(2) OI codes (Organization and/or intelligence affiliation)

(3) Citizenship

(4) Year of birth (plus or minus a given number of years)

(5) Occupation.

These selection criteria may be used singly or in combinations. For example,
a user could obtain a list of all 201 personalities who have been assigned the
OI code of XX or codes of XX, XY, or XZ. A 201 personality list could also be
produced of all persons who were born in Germany between the years 1915
and. 1920, with the occupation computer specialist, who are now citizens of the
United States, located in Mexico, and who had been assigned the OI code AA.
Note however that the listing would contain only those personalities with an
OI code AA. Those personalities with an Ol code other than AA and those
with no OI code would be excluded. The requester could however ask that
persons who have not been assigned an OI code also be included. Note also
that when retrieving lists based on occupation, the listing will be only as specific
as the occupation code (Attachment 1). The occupation code for a courier
covers only a documented courier. Some occupation codes cover more than one
occupation. For example, the occupation code CRAF covers those who practice
some trade or manual occupation, i.e., carpenters, bricklayers, painters, mechanics
and electricians. If a list is requested for electricians, all others in this category
will be included in the printout. These nom standard listings may be sorted
(arranged) according to any, but not more than three of the following keywords:

(a) Surname

(b) Given name

(c) Date of birth

(d) Country of birth

(e) Citizenship

(f) OI code

(g) Location

26.9

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1.
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B

15 November 1974

Sorts can be made within sorts. For example, 201 personalities may be sorted alphabetically by surname within OI codes for given countries of location. Because two OI codes may be listed for each personality, those names with two OI codes would be listed twice.

c. Scheduled Listings

Standard and non-standard listings printed semiannually.

d. Special Listings

Unscheduled, usually non-standard, listings produced on a one time basis in response to special operational requirements.

e. Request for Listings

All requests for standard or non-standard alphabetical and numerical 201 listings for Headquarters and the field, for changes in periodic listings, and for information on the 201 machine list system should be made to the component Records Management Officer.

26.10

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
Attachment 2

15 November 1974

AUTOMATIC 201 DOSSIER OPENINGS

Note: 201 files will be opened automatically by IPAAN on the following categories of people.

1. Arab Republic of Egypt (ARE)

a. Diplomats with rank of third secretary or above.

b. Military attaches and assistant military attaches.

c. Intelligence officers of the General Intelligence Department (GID).

(Prior to opening of an ARE 201 file, check with NE/E for correct spelling of name and additional biographic data.)

2. British Commonwealth

a. All positively identified members of MI-5 and MI-6, the British Intelligence Services.

b. All positively identified members of the Irish Military Intelligence Service (IMIS).

c. Canadian Communist Party officials on national or provincial levels and officials of the Canadian Communist Party front organizations. Do not open unless there is at least a date of birth given.

d. All members of the Security Service of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMPASS).

3. Cuba

Intelligence service employees (DSE, DGI).

4. Israel

a. All Israeli diplomats. C/NE/ISR should be indicated as the originating office with CI/SP always indicated as the secondary office of interest.

b. Military attaches.

c. Assistant military attaches.

d. Identified intelligence officers.

26.15

SECRET

6001777

PAGE 16 of 20
COPY NO.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

14-00000

SECRET

DOHB 70-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
Attachment 2

15 November 1974

5. North Vietnam

All diplomats and NFLSV officials stationed abroad.

6. USSR

a. All Soviets assigned FCS to official representational installation, i.e., embassy, consulate, commercial representation, national airline (Aeroflot) office, news media office.

b. All Soviets assigned PCS to the United Nations in New York, Paris, Geneva, and Vienna.

c. Audio technicians, after coordination with SE desk concerned.

d. Students who will be studying abroad for a full academic year at institutions of higher learning.

26.16

SECRET

0001778


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
HANDBOOK NO. 43-1-1

SECRET

70-1-1
CSHB 43-1-1
CHAPTER III
15 February 1960

ANNEX B

201 AND IDN NUMBERS

1.  A relatively small proportion of the total number of personali-
    ties indexed by the CS are of active operational interest at any given
    point in time. These are normally subjects of extensive reporting and
    CI investigation, prospective agents and sources, and members of
    groups and organizations of continuing target interest. Each of these
    personalities is assigned either a 201 number or an IDN number.

2.  The 201 number serves a dual purpose. It brings the files on
    these personalities into the CS records system. A single number,
    e.g., 201-123456, is assigned to each person, and a dossier controlled
    by this number is established which contains, or has cross referenced
    to it, all of the reporting on the individual's personal history, current
    status and prospects. Once the 201 number is assigned, it is used in
    future reporting on the individual both as a file number and in place of
    other identifying data. Up-to-date machine listings are published
    periodically to help field stations and headquarters desks keep book
    on those 201 personalities falling in particular geographic or
    functional area of interest.

3.  It has become apparent that the 201 machine listings should in-
    clude the identities of persons of operational interest because of their
    connection with a target group or organization even though there may
    not be sufficient information or specific interest to warrant opening
    a file. For example: A considerable number of stations are concerned
    with the activities of Cuban exiles. Coverage of their movements,
    factions and objectives can be assisted by furnishing all participating
    stations up-to-date listings containing information under the control

43

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

70-1-1
CSHB-43-1-1
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 February 1960

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
HANDBOOK NO. 43-1-1

of the Cuban desk on the dramatis personae. In addition to 201 per-
sonalities, such lists should contain the names and identifying data
of persons who should be kept track of although they may only be of
tangential interest or on whom there may be little or no data other
than that given in the listing itself.

4. To accommodate this type of requirement in the 201 system,
   identifiable personalities concerning whom enough information is not
   yet available to require the opening of a file may be assigned numbers
   of the following type but in the same series:

IDN-123457

These are relabeled "201" if a file is opened. IDN numbers are car-
ried with 201 numbers in appropriate general or special listings,
where they are identified by the letter "I" in the "Type of Name" col-
umn. IDN numbers are not CS file numbers.

5. All 201 code numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters,
   either upon receipt of Form 831, or of a field dispatch. If a dispatch
   is written about a personality not yet in the system, a 201 number for
   it may be requested simply by writing under headquarters file number
   in the dispatch form as follows:

> [Figure: An example of a dispatch form]
> Dispatch Symbol and No.
> AY2A-12345
> Headquarters File No.
> 201-

6. IDN numbers are assigned by RID at headquarters upon the
   request of stations or desks which are developing special identification
   programs within the 201 system. The field receives current notifica-
   tion of new 201 openings and IDN numbers through the Field Index Card
   Service.

44

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

14-00000

SECRET

CLANDESTINE SERVICES
HANDBOOK NO. 43-11-

70-1-1
CSHB 43-11
CHAPTER III, ANNEX B
15 February 1960

7. Stations or branches often are concerned with personalities not of general CS concern. Files on these may be kept in any desired order. Should such personalities become of general CS interest, they must be brought into the 201 system.

45

SECRET

0001781
PAGE 20 of 20
COPY NO.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)