# SECRET

AMBIDCY-1

15 June 1964

SYNOPSIS

Per his request, 2nd Lt. Oliverio Antonio TOMEU Vasallo was recontacted on 8 June 64 at his place of residence. He provided additional details on Carlos and Ana Gloria de VARONA, and identified Osiel GONZALEZ and one "COCO" as possible leads to Jose LLANUSA Gobel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

15 June 1964

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Recontact of Oliverio A. TOKEU Vasallo. (201-283206)

1. At 1730 hours, 8 June 64, the undersigned was advised at his residence that a Mr. TOMEU (Subject) had called the security number given him (351-6161) and left the message that he would like to talk again with Paul Stroud (the undersigned) anytime after 1800 hours, 8 June.

2. Upon arriving at TOMEU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1028 Vahler Place SE, High Point Apartment House, Washington, D. C.), 1830 hours, 8 June, TOMEU indicated to his two daughters he would like to have some privacy and they and his wife, Caridad, left the apartment.

3. TOMEU apologized for not having recalled the name *de VARONA* as that of Ana Gloria de VARONA. He reiterated that, while in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Government subsequent to his infiltration, he knew only the first names of the persons with whom he came in contact, but then added he knew Ana Gloria de VARONA, in whose house he was hiding, because she was the sister of Carlos de VARONA, one of his infiltration team members. (This Carlos de VARONA may be identical with one Carlos Manuel de VARONA Segura, 201-289985; or one Carlos Arturo VARONA Arjona, 301-283209.)

4. On several occasions, according to TOMEU, he was seated at the table in Ana's house with several other people. One of these individuals, known to TOMEU only as *COCO*, was described as the secretary to Jose LLANUZA Gobel. There was not, however, any discussions in which TOMEU recalls LLANUZA or his political sympathies having been discussed. According to TOMEU's recollection it was *COCO* who was associated with LLANUZA, and he was not aware of any relationship between Ana and LLANUZA. Although TOMEU had no information as to what finally happened to Carlos de VARONA, his infiltration team mate, he suggested that if Carlos or Ana were available they may be able to identify *COCO* and provide data on his accessibility for contact.

5. One Caiel GONZALES, former Chief of the Havana Fire Department, was identified by TOMEU as another possible lead

SECRET

![Redacted From automatic declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

-2-

Who would know LLANUZA. TOMKU affirmed Osiel was previously with MEFOTO Outierrez in the Second Front of Escambray. Osiel was under asylum in the Brazilian hambassy (sic, Argentine Embassy?), when Tulku gained political asylum. When Osiel finally received his safe conduct from the imbassy, he vent to Puerto Rico and, and. TOMEU postulates that Osiel is now again with MEFOTO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Tvo snap shots (to be returned) vere provided by TOMEU of himself and six other individuals who were in saylua at the same time. Be identified these, in the photograph in which Monsignor Eduardo DOZA Kasvidal is seated, as, from left to right: Manuel VILLAMANAN, Oliverio TONKU, Kils DIAZ (believed to be in US), Publio RUIZ (US), Jorge Del VALL (Mex?), and Quiel GONZÁLEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMKU exchanged small talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated that he still wished there was something more he could do to help free Cuba, and asked "What do you think I should do?" Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of decision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the VS Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in which he could apply his past experience. His sister had also ssked him if he felt he and his family would want to live with her in Spain or Mexico, but he didn't think too much of this idea. He then stated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTINK to take a job as an instructor. Without indicating any association of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201), TOMEU was asked what he thought of ARTINE's proposition. TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as a individual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook, and objectives change with time. For example, the people of Cuba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When Fidel took over, his accomplishments gradually becaNG quit Gifferent from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued by saying he would "no longer follow a man, One could only trust his ideals or an organization which followed those ideals, since a good organization would be less likely of being controlled by a single man." When saked for an example of the type of organization he had in mind, TOMKU replied he Vas most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of the JURE. (The JURE or JUC is an organization arested by Manolo RAY Rivero around a nucleus of former 26 July Movement leaders, Bee memo and attachment dated 23 July 1963 from Joha Bugh Crimsins, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, ARA, Departmens af State in TOMKU's 201-283206.)

SECRET
Excludes irem automatiz
downgrading and
declassificalten


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-3-

9. It should, perhaps, be noted here that in an informal exchange with Mrs. Donald WEBSTER, TOKIU's supervisor at the Defense Language Institute, Anacostiz Naval Annex, 4 June 64, Mrs. VERSTER volunteered the information that "all of the other 'Brigade students here' have told me they think very highly of TOKEU, and that he is a very brave nan, because he and his family vere very wealthy in Cuba and he gave it all up to go into exile and fight the Castro Regins."

WR/3A/80/03
C. PAUL PLUMB, JR.

SECRET

![Eseleder see automaticamente dees rating and declassitiestive]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)