# SECURELY, SENSITIVE

OUTLINE*

Subject: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee Bustos - Vidilla

1. NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE Elsie l. Scaletti

2. PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT #56840

   Were you ever personally acquainted with him?

   Yes or No yes . If you were never personally

   acquainted with him have you acquired any information of

   a personal nature concerning him through other persons?

   Yes or No . Give details including dates,

   by months and years as best you can recall, circumstances,

   purpose and nature of any relationship you may have had

   with him and provide all data relating to his character

   or personality, illustrating briefly with any-stories or

   other information acquired as a result of your own

   relationship with him or which might have been acquired

   from others.

   See attached memo

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

3. SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF YOU, PROJECTS, OR OPERATIONS IN
   WHICH YOU PARTICIPATED

   On the basis of your personal association with

   Subject, either official or social, or, on the basis of

   what you know or believe him to be knowledgeable of,

   outline the nature and extent of information you believe

   he could provide an opposition intelligence service as to

   (a) your identity as an intelligence officer or employee,

   (b) your personal background and experience including

   places of assignments, and (c) operations in which you

   participated in some way. (Cryptonyms should be employed

   when known. The nature of the operations in any event

   should be briefly but sufficiently described to lead to

   their identification, with the dates or periods involved

   and any comments or observations as to their success or

   failure.)

   See memo attached

Page 1 of 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4. OTHER AGENCY PERSONNEL

List other Agency personnel or former persommer, who on the basis of your own personal knowledge or belief, had official or social contact with Subject. Give brief information as to the period and nature of such relationship for each.

See memo attached.

5. OTHER U. S. GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL

List all other U. S. Government personnel who, on the basis of your own personal knowledge or belief, had particularly close official or social contact with Subject. Identify the Bureau, Department, Agency or Office with which each such person was employed at the time of the relationship and give brief information concerning the period and nature of such relationship for each.

See memo attached

6. OTHER PERSONS

List all other persons who irrespective of nationality, sex, or employment are known or believed to have had *intimate* or particularly close association with him and brief information concerning the identity and occupation of such persons, your knowledge of such persons, and the period and nature of the relationship of such person with Subject. Include also the names of all American and foreign newspaper people with whom he is known or believed to have had personal contact irrespective of the extent or closeness of their relationship. Give names with brief information as to the period and nature of such relationship for each.

I know of none.

Page 2 of 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

7. HOSTILE INTELLIGENCE CONNECTIONS

Can you provide any information of any kind tending to establish that Subject may have been sympathetic to hostile ideologies or had contact with and was cooperating with a hostile intelligence service. Yes or No no . If yes, give full details.

Signed:

Dated : 10 July 1972

*This is an Outline only of information desired. If you either knew the Subject or have any information from other sources on any of the points contained in the outline, a separate memorandum is needed with each paragraph thereof keyed to those in this outline. If you neither knew the Subject nor have any information of the kind requested in any section of the outline *(and only in such instance)* negative entries may be entered under all sections, and the outlined returned after signing and dating. The signed and dated outline will thus serve as a memorandum for the files.

- 3 -

Page 3 of 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET/SENSITIVE

SUBJECT: Philip Burnett Franklin Agee

1. NAME OF OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE: Elsie I. Scaletti

2. PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF SUBJECT:

I knew Phil during the entire time he was in Branch I at Headquarters, and during his tour in Mexico. We came to Mexico PCS at the same time. This means I knew him from 1966 until he resigned. In Headquarters our relationship was limited to business in the office, and that was not very frequent. We sat in different rooms. He handled SB matters. I did the routing of all Branch correspondence which meant I decided what he was to see--this was anything affecting Soviet/Satellite/ Chinese matters. My main areas of responsibility were in the support field. Even though we were both processing out at the same time, we did not exchange stories much. However, since I traveled as a "Tourist" and was not therefore allowed to bring anything into Mexico, Phil offered to have some of my things packed with his household effects since he said he owned hardly anything. One day my husband and I took some boxes of things over to his apartment before work. I do not remember the name of the apartment development in Virginia, but it was the garden type. His apartment was nice--fairly new but sparsely furnished. He helped us unload the things and take them upstairs. Then we parted. I seem to recal he had some trouble with his car that morning and we dropped him off at a repair shop on the way to the office.

At this time, in Washington, Phil was very pleasant, was nice to work with. He did not appear to be pushy, even though he did everything he could to get the Mexican assignment. At this time, despite his family problems, he did not appear to let these affect his work. At least from my position he seemed to get his work done, not to procrastinate, not to take a lot of time off. From the gossip I heard, he was separated, and was anxious to get any assignment overseas. When the possibility of this Olympic job opened up in Mexico he grabbed it. As I recall, C/WH/1 was sympathetic toward him also, and was happy to be able to help Phil at this particular time.

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET/SENSITIVE

In Mexico when Phil's louseirold effects arrived he let me know; and as I recall, ne brought them over to my house and we unloaded them into our apartment. We did not go and pick them up. In thanks, we invited him over to supper one evening. (Willard C. CURTIS had given permission for individual officers to have Phil over to dinner if no outsiders were present and prior permission was obtained.) I think I got permission from the DCOS at that time. There were only the three of us (Phil, my husband, and myself--no maid, no other invited guests) There was no discussion of office. My husband knew Phil was with BKTRUST and was working on the Olympics in Mexico. Conversation was light. During dinner, as I recall, we talked about business in Mexico, and he mentioned his father was in the dry cleaning business, and he thought he might be interested in bringing into Mexico some used dry cleaning equipment which is worth nothing in the United States, and set up some dry cleaning establishments in Mexico. The discussion was merely in generalities--nothing specific as to timetable or even if Phil were serious about this.

About a week later Phil brought his car over and my husband helped him work on his car--adjusting it to the altitude. This must have been around September 1967.

Shortly thereafter, when Laura B. UTSTINE was in Mexico TDY (she worked in WH/1 and also knew Phil at Headquarters), Phil had my husband, me, and UTSTINE over to his apartment (on Insurgentes Sur just off the Viaducto) for dinner. It was a huge apartment, sparsely furnished. We had an enjoyable evening, very light conversation. Talked mostly about Mexico. At this time he showed us he had several bedrooms (forget how many) and hopefully his sons would be able to visit him.

During his tour in Mexico I only saw Phil in the Station occasionally--and then just in passingin the halls. Once after I heard about Phil's having kidnaped his boys, I thought I saw them (can't remember why I thought they were his) in front of the Embassy with a maid. I never saw Phil in the Embassy proper nor at any Embassy functions (I was tourist and did not circulate in the Embassy).

During his tour in Mexico, Phil remained pleasant but was certainly to find to talk to.. After Phil resigned I saw him once. After John PROBERT arrived as COS, I saw Phil along the side of the Embassy.

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

We just greeted each other. he said he heard PROBERT was coming to Mexico and asked if he were here. He wanted to call and say hello. I said yes. I immediately informed PROBERT, and suggested the latter, read Phil's file at the Station as it was my understanding there was some problem about his resignation, but did not know all the details. (This was true as personnel matters in the Station were kept very close by the front office.) I do not know if, when, or how many times PROBERT might have met with Phil. At this time Phil looked neat and well kept, as I recall.

3. SUBJECT'S KNOWLEDGE OF SCALETTI, PROJECTS, OR OPERATIONS IN WHICH SCALETTI PARTICIPATED

a). Phil could definitely identify me as a long-time BKTRUST employee

b). Phil probably knew that Mexico was my first overseas assignment, and possibly that I had a medical hold before. He knew I had spent "many years" in Branch I, and was privy to almost everything going on at the Mexico City Station. He knew I was assigned to Mexico under tourist cover but worked inside the Embassy. He knew my husband was here as a professor at the Universit of the Americas, and that he did not work for BKTRUST

c). In Headquarters Phil knew I handled mostly the support projects plus such extras as LI(LINK) and (LP)GLOBE (both NOC)24 LI(LINK)nad closed down either just as Phil came to the Branch, or just before. However, Gary H. REYMANDER, formerly with LI(LINK) was assigned to the Branch then, and talked with Phil about Mexico, and possibly about LI(LINK) remember keeping the (LP)GLOBE material very close, in my own safe, and I do not think Phil knew of (LP)GLOBE (LI REALM was then in Mexico under (LP)GLOBE), but may have learned of (LP)GLOBE program and LIREALM through Ex-LIADLIB (see paragraph 4).

In Mexico City Phil knew I was in the Cuban section, and privy to all operations being run against the Cuban target. He did not know of operations in particular except possibly LIARM-1 (now terminated) who we hoped to use against the Cuban olympic target. The Cuban Section tried to talk with Phil many times about the Cuban delegations to the Olympics, but as I recall, C/Cuba only succeeded in

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# SECRET/SENSITIVE

GETTING Phil to come to our end of the hall a couple of times. I was not in on the discussions between C/Cuba (Raymond F. FRADYER) and Phil, but I believe they were mainly held to see who Phil had met who might be useful against the Cuban target. I know we thought at the time Phil was spending almost full time on his overt activities and the SB target, and he gave the Cuban target little attention.

OTHER AGENCY PERSONNEL

At Headquarters in WH/1 Phil shared his cubicle with LIADLIB-1 who was pressing to get overseas as much as Phil, for different reasons. Ex-LIADLIB-1 was a much more pusiny individual, less experienced operationally (right out of the JOT program) and out to benefit himself entirely--much more so than Phil.24 LIADLIB-1 went out of channe constantly, talking of (NOC cover) ideas (for himself), and going right to the head of Training or JOT (can't remember which) and WOMACE on ideas and suggestions, without necessarily going through the Branch or Division. He had many business deals on the side (one was as a landscaper in Virginia) and had great prospects for business deals in Mexico. He wangled a NOC job in Mexico (replacing LILINK) and was inserted in the (LAGLOBE program winile he knew Phil (I think this was the timing.) He was also quite open in his bragging he had been hired as a GS-13 (I think it was) and did not have to go up tpuranks. This might have irritated Phil who was still a 12. Ex-LIADLIB came to Mexico PCS about the same time Phil and I came. Although I remember no close friendship between Ex-LIADLIB and Phil on the desk, the fact they sat together, were poth processing out for Mexico, would have meant they had something in common. Also, LIADLIB was then handling all the projects for CP and leftist penetration operations for the Station and Base (Monterrey). Phil would have more than casual interest in some of these as some were being handled in the field by Howard R. BENJAYA, an old friend of Phil's from Ecuador.) I do not know that Phil and

SECRET/SENSITIVE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

5
SECRET/SENSITIVE

Ex-LIADLIB ever met socially in Mexico or not. I am quite certain their work paths never crossed. LIADLIB is still in Mexico. He has had a difficult time since his "resignation" getting a job, keeping a job, and making ends meet. It probably would be to BKTRUST's disadvantage now for the two to meet. For this reason, and to assess ex-LIADLIB-s present state of mind, Headquarters sent someone to talk with LIADLIB-1 in the spring of 1972. At that time he still seemed bitter against BKTRUST.

Other than wishing to make special mention of EX-LI ADLIB-1, I know of no Agency personnel other than those in WH/1 and the Mexico City Statio whom he knew.

5. OTHER U.S. GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL

I know of none except the Olympic Attache in Mexico under whom Agee worked from July 1967 until the end of the Olympics.

![Elsie Scanero signature]
![Date 10 July 1972]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)