# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY.

Journal - Office of Legislative Counsel
Friday - 11 February 1977 Page 5

19. (Unclassified - LJK) ADMINISTRATIVE DELIVERIES
    Delivered to Charles Snodgrass, House Appropriations Committee staff, phone numbers of (Chief of Station, Panama) and (Chief of Station, Mexico City) for passage to Representatives John J. Flynt (D., Ga.) and J. Kenneth Robinson (R., Va.) for their use in an upcoming trip to the above locations.

20. (Confidential - LJK) LIAISON Met with James Fellenbaum, Senate Appropriations Committee staff, to discuss the FY78 budget. Fellenbaum indicated that the Senate Appropriations Committee would have to treat the issue of intelligence-related costs due to the fact that the House Appropriations Committee has shown such interest in this matter. I informed him that the House Appropriations Committee is scheduling a hearing on intelligence-related costs on 8 March 1977.

Fellenbaum also said that it appears Senator William W. Proxmire (D., Wis.) and Senator Clifford P. Case (R., N.J.) will join the Intelligence Subcommittee of Senate Appropriations Committee.

21. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Advised Art Kuhl, Senate Foreign Relations Committee staff, of the number of Agency employees covered by the upcoming foreign service list to be submitted to the Senate. The information was supplied by Tom Carney, CCS.

22. (Unclassified - LLM) LIAISON Spoke with Paul Daly, FBI, on the present state of affairs with respect to the House Select Committee on Assassinations. Daly advised that at the request of Chairman Henry B. Gonzalez (D., Texas) to the Attorney General the Committee staffers will no longer be provided access to the unclassified material they have been reviewing within the Department of Justice.

Daly is hopeful that Chairman Gonzalez will approve the security clearance standards and once this is in motion the first clearances should start coming through in about 30 days. I asked Daly to keep us advised as to the progress on the clearances matter to pave the way for our next coordinated step within the Executive Branch to seek Chairman Gonzalez's and Representative Samuel L. Devine's (R., Ohio) agreement on procedures for access to classified information.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)