2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

PATERIAL REVIESTO AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMHTTLE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: McLENDON, GORDON
201-77764.

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION:

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY:

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------- |
| 16/M4778      |               | LESLIE WIZELMAN          | Lishe Wizelman                  |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM TILIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L
When Filled In

6 Jan 1975
(date)

Review of 201 File on U.S. Citizen

In accordance with the DDO's notice of 9 December 1974,
I have reviewed the 201 file on *Mc LENDON* (surname)
(201 number indicated below), and have determined that it can
most accurately be categorized as indicated below:

should be closed.

witting collaborator. Ol Code Al.

potential witting collaborator; date opened ___________
OI Code A2.

former witting collaborator (relationship terminated).
OI Code A3.

potential witting collaborator never contacted (security
reasons, derogatory information). OI Code A4.

counterintelligence case (i.e., involving a foreign
intelligence or security service). OI Code A5.

all others. O Code 6.

Signed *Sam H. GIRARDI*
(name) (title) (component)

This assignment of category has been entered into STAR.

Signed *LK* 1975
(initials) (date)

This document is a permanent part of this file.

201-79764
E2 IMPDET
CL BY 054979

When Filled In
C-U-N-7-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

3 May 1972

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: John K. McLean

1. On 28 April the undersigned was introduced to Mr. John McLean by Mr. Wallace Lampshire, a staff officer. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss Mr. McLean's connection with Mr. Gordon Barton McLendon (201-79764) and Mr. McLendon's stated desire to helphis government.

2. Mr. McLean is a former staff officer (DDI/OCI) who resigned to enter the field of finance. He has been a banker, a stock broker (Sade & Co.) and currently is Vice-President and Treasurer of International Ventures, Inc., 888 17th Street N.W., Washington 20006, as well as Vice-President of Riviere & Berens Securities Corp., stockbrokers located at 1832 M St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

3. Mr. McLendon was born in Paris, Texas 8 June 1921 and now lives in Dallas. According to Who's Who in the South and Southwest, Mr. McLendon is the owner of a number of radio stations and is listed as the president of numerous companies in radio, TV, and motion picture theatre fields. Mr. McLendon is reputedly a multi-millionaire.

4. Mr. McLean and Mr. McLendon have maintained a friend- ship since their years at Yale. Mr. McLean recently visited Mr. McLendon at his ranch some thirty miles from Dallas. During this visit Mr. McLendon expressed his fears of the future of the dollar and said that he has moved millions of his dollars to Europe where the money has been put into Swiss and French francs, plus German marks. Most of the money is apparently in savings instruments of one kind or another plus a night club that Mr. McLendon has bought in Stockholm. During these conversations,. dr. McLendon wondered if these foreign operations might not be of interest to the Government (read CIA as Mr. McLendon was an ONI officer during WW II and is aware of Mr. McLean's former employment with the Agency.) Mr. McLendon mentioned his night club as a possibility, as it is frequented by persons of many countries, including the USSR.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

5. M. McLean has business interests in Dallas and said that he is willing to expiore this possibility with Mr. McLendon if we provide guidance.

6. Mr. McLean himself perhaps offers more potential via International Ventures, Inc. Mr. McLean is seeking venture capital opportunities abroad. For example, he and a Mr. Lincoln Epworth in New York City are working with a Japanese named Ikvo Kasai who is President of Nichimen Co. of Tokyo, a firm seeking to export to the States. Mr. McLean was frank to say that International Ventures is more a dream than a reality in terms of business but the concern is making progress. Mr. McLean offered to be of any assistance..

Comment: I have sent for Mr. McLean's file and upon its receipt I will seek a PCSA.


Frederick Larkin, Jr.
CCS/CFB

FL/ekw

- 2 -

SECRET

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

FROM:

WILCOXCN ELI
CCS/CFB
EXT. 3543

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

DATE 19 April 1972

CHECKING INSTRICTIONS AND NOTES

ENTER NO. OF REFERENCES ORDERED

![Signature]

T.O. TUBE ROOM DATE INITIALS

RID/INDEX DT-5 184003 14ap72

REQUESTER

R.O/FILES DT-8 GC52

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS GT-7 GA50

RID/INDEX DT-5 184003

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED

SURNAME Mc LENDON, Gordon Barton
GIVEN NAMES

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

MAC

201 NO. IF KNOWN

AKA. ALIASES

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, I. S. affiliations, etc.) See "Who's Who in the South and Southwest", Eleventh Edition, P. 677

SEX DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP RESIDENCE 9300 Douglas Street, Dallas, Texas
M 8 June 1921 Paris, Texas U.S.A.

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

![Results of rid/index check]

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED COMMENTS

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS.

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS

1. REVIEW INDEX CARD REPRODUCTIONS.
2. DRAW GREEN DIAGONAL LINE ACROSS ITEMS YOU-DO NOT WANT.
3. FORWARD TO RID/FILES:

201 CONSOLIDATION (SEE CS: 70-20)

1. IF SUBJECT HAS A 201 FILE. RETURN ONLY THIS FORM TO RIO/AN WITH REPRODUCTIONS OF INDEX CARDS MARKED IN GREEN TO REFLECT THE CONSOLIDATION ACTION TAKEN.
2. WHEN SUBJECT HAS NO 201 FILE, BUT MEETS THE REQUIREMENT FOR OPENING A 201 FILE, RETURN THIS FORM TO RID/201

TO EDIT THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS

AFTER RECEIPT OF THE DOCUMENTS, EDIT THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS ACCORDING TO C31 70-19.

1. TO DESTROY CARDS: MARK THE CARD REPRODUCTION WITH A GREEN D. AND CITE THE REASON.
2. TO MAKE CORRECTIONS/ADDITIONS: ENTER THE CHANGES ON THE CARD REPRODUCTIONS IN GREEN, INS.
3. FORWARD TO RID/AN, VIA YOUR RECORDS, OFFICER.

A COMPLETED FORM 831

B. ALL PERTINENT DOCUMENTS, EXTRACTS, AND PROPERLY EDITED INDEX CARD REPRODUCTIONS FOR CONSOLIDATION OF THE FILE BY 'RID/201.

CHECILIST OF OTHER INDICES: MEQULSTER SHOULD ALSO CONSIDER TRACING THE FOLLOWING SOURCES WHICH ARE NOT CHECKED AY RID/INDEX (SEE NAME TRACE HANDBOOK).

| SOURCE                | DATE REQUESTED | DATE RECEIVED |           SOURCE           | DATE REQUESTED | DATE RECEIVED |
| --------------------- | :------------: | :-----------: | :------------------------: | :------------: | :-----------: |
| RID ARCHIVES          |                |               | CENTRAL REFERENCE SERVICE  |                |               |
| COMINT NAME CHECK     |                |               |        CIA LIBRARY         |                |               |
| SO BIOGRAPHICS BRANCH |                |               |     OFFICE OF SECURITY     |                |               |
| APPLICANTS FILE       |                |               | OFFICE OF MEDICAL SERVICES |                |               |
|                       |                |               | DOMESTIC CONTACTS SERVICE  |                |               |
|                       |                |               |   DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE   |                |               |
|                       |                |               |   DEFENSE CENTRAL INDEX    |                |               |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

PCLENDON, GORDON BARTON

SEX M DCB 08 JUN 21
USA, TEXAS, PARIS
CIT USA
CCC. PRES
REF

< USA, TEXAS, CALLAS
PCLENDCA BROADCAST SYSTEM.

201-0797640

TYPE NAME T
OCC CODE BUSP

01 CODE ?

160000000 CORR CARD 6605250198


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET
(When Filled In)
BRIEF RECORD OF CASE ACTICH

| ITEM | DATE | REMARSS | INITIALS |
| ---- | ---- | ------- | -------- |
|      |      |         |          |
|      |      |         |          |
|      |      |         |          |
|      |      |         |          |
|      |      |         |          |

MINUTE SHEET

FORM NO. 78
1 AUG 56

This MUST be the TOP, unserialized document
in File Number 201-

JECKET

REPLACES FORM 59.30
WHICH MAY BE USED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

Memorandum For: DO/590 (for Mr. Seers)

Reference : Request for trace and clearance

Project : *WUCHS/LVRE*

Subject : See below

NAME: McLENDON, Gordon Barton
DPOB: 8 June 1921, Paris, Texas
CI: USA
RES: 9300 Douglas St., Dallas, Texas
OOC: McLendon Broadcast System
ADD: 2104 Jacks St., Dallas, Texas

19 February 1966
Date

Trace Results:

No record in addition to 201-79764 which is attached herewith on permanent charge to DC/CO/Beers.

CI/CA file JG-9545 was reviewed and found to contain no information in addition to that contained in Subject's dossier. You will note that a request made by FE Division for a CSC on Subject was denied by the Office of Security on 29 July 1952.

Areas Checked:

FID x Area Division Central Cover Staff x Office of Security

OCR: Biographics Register Foreign Installations Branch Library

Other

Form 772 requesting PCSA/CSA was forwarded to (Security) fxx

A copy of this memorandum has been sent to RID for classification into file

![signature of Bernie A. Smith]

Attachment: 201-79764

Distribution:
Orig. - Addressee
DOCRI DO/H - 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OR INVESTIGATIVE ACTION

(Aluave handcarry I copy of this form)

PLEASE COMPLETE EACH SECTION AND APPROPRIATE BLANK

TO:

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

FROM:

30 Dececber 1965

DO/00

X CHIEF, INVESTIGATION AND SUPPORT DIVISION, OFFICE OF SECURITY

CHIEF PERSOANEL SECURITY DIVISION. OFFICE OF SECURITY

SUBJECT:

(True nase)

MeiNDON/Gordon Barton

PROJECT

WUENTIPEE

CRYPTONYM, PSEUDONYM, AKA CALIASES

CIAGA FILE NO.

191 201 FILE NO.

SO FILE NO.

1. TYPE ACTION REQUESTED

PROVISIONAL OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROVISIONAL PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

OPERATIONAL APPROVAL

PROPRIETARY APPROVAL

X PROVISIONAL COVERT SECURITY APPROVAL,

COVERT SAME CHECK

COVERT SLCURITY APPROVAL

SPECIAL INQUIRY (SO field investigation)

CONTRACT TYPE A.

CONTRACT TYPE B

2. SPECIFIC AREA OF USE

US

3. FULL DETAILS OF USE

Subject wili be contacted and assessed on a witting basis in support of WUENTREE.
Subject is President of McLendon Corporation of Dallas, Texas and is also omer of several radio stations. He was born in Paris, Texas on 8 June 1921. Le rcaides at 9300 Douglas Street, Dallas, Texas and has a ranch in Denton, Texas. During World War II, he served as a Japanese Language Officer in intelligence for the US Navy from 1943-45. He is the author of "The Old Scotoman's Scrapbook"

4. INVESTIGATION AND COVER

|                                                                | YES | NO  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------- | --- | --- |
| A. U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST MAY BE SHOWN DURING INVESTIGATION? |     | X   |
| B. CIA INTEREST MAY BE SMOEN QURING INVESTIGATION?             |     | X   |
| C. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF U.S. GOVERNMENT INTEREST IN HIM         |     | X   |
| D. IS SUBJECT AWARE OF CIA INTEREST IN MIN?                    |     | X   |

E. INDICATE ANY LIMITATIONS ON COVERAGE IN THE INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT.

F. SUGGEST CCYER PRETEXT BE USED IN CONDUCTING PERSONAL INVESTIGATION OF SUBJECT。

G. DO YOU PLAN TO MAKE SUBJECT BITTING OF AGENCY OR GOVERNMENT INTEREST.P

IF NO INVESTIGATION OUTSIDE CIA, EXPLAIN FULLY

XES

NO

5. PRO AND GREEN LIST. STATIS

|                                             |                                 |                |                     |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------- |
| PRO I OR EQUIVALENT. IN (2) COPIES ATTACHED | PRO 1 BILL BE FORWARDED.        |                |                     |
| PRO 18. OR EQUIVALENT IN COPY ATTACHED      | GREEN LIST ATTACHED. NO.        |                |                     |
|                                             | 6. RI TRAGES                    |                |                     |
| NO RECORD                                   | BILL FORGARD                    | NON-DEROGATORY | DEROGATORY ATTACHED |
|                                             | 7. DIVISION 'TRACES             |                |                     |
| NO RECORD                                   | BILI FORBARO                    | NON-DEROGATORY | DEROGATORY ATTACHED |
|                                             | 8. FIELD TRACES.                |                |                     |
| NO RECORD                                   | FILL FOR                        |                |                     |
| NO PERCGATCAY INFO.                         | DEROGATOR ATTACHED              |                |                     |
| LIST SOごきこES CHECKED                        | SIGNIFICANT INFOMATION ATTACHED |                |                     |
| NOT INITIATED (Explorati                    |                                 |                |                     |

SIGNATURE OF CASE OFFICER Peter Beers

ERTENSIO

SIGNATURE OF BRANCH Coler Willian A Royer

SECRET

(0)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION            |               |               |            |      |
| ------------------- | ---------------------------------- | ------------- | ------------- | ---------- | ---- |
|                     | RI FILE NO.                        |               |               |            |      |
|                     | DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | DATE          |               |            |      |
| ANALYST             | DATE PROCESSED                     | DISSEMINATION | DATE OF INFO. | EVALUATION | DATE |
| ---                 | ---                                | ---           | ---           | ---        | ---  |
|                     |                                    |               |               |            |      |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |
| --------------------------- | -------------------------- |
|                             |                            |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

> THIS IS A RELATED ENTRY IN DE-9545 FOR THIS FILE

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. OCT 79714

FORM NO. 867 REPLACES FORM 5390 (67). 1 AUG 54 AND FORM 137 OBSOLETE.

SECRET (7-63)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

ΑΤΤΝ:

KI
RI/C

Chief, FS

Disposition of Files

24 May 1954

1. Forwarded herewith for your disposition are thirty-eight (38) files, considered aer-restricted by MC, for the following listed:

Name / Date of Birth / Atlanta/ Japan/ Idabelle/ Okla

One Oendor, Gordon Barton about 1922

2. Subjects are no longer in use by this office.

Originated by: Ursa T. Sharp

FOR:  GEORGE E. ABEL
Chief: FS

Dist: Addressee - Orig & 2; Subj - 1 ea;
PE-1, CS (Rawlinson) - 1
FE-1 (arrone) - 1

SES CAYIRE, Salvatore Bernardo file
Date of Birth: Oct 29, 1910; Place of Birth: N.Y., N.Y.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

UNCLASSIFIED CIA INTERNAL
ONLY CONFID TIAL SECRET

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT::Optional

FROM

NO FE/1

TO: (Officer designation, room svender, and DATE
building! OFFICERS COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from hom
INIT: US to sham Draw a ling across colums colums after sach cocument}

|     | DATE  | OFFICERS | COMMENTS              |
| --- | ----- | -------- | --------------------- |
|     | RECO  | FWD:D    | INIT: US              |
| 1.  |       |          |                       |
| 2.  |       |          | 6 McLENDON Garden Int |
| 3.  |       |          |                       |
| 4.  |       |          |                       |
| 5.  |       |          |                       |
| 6.  |       |          |                       |
| 7.  |       |          |                       |
| 8.  |       |          |                       |
| 9.  |       |          |                       |
| 10. |       |          |                       |
| 11. |       |          |                       |
| 12. |       |          |                       |
| 13. | R1/CC |          |                       |
| 14. | R1/F1 |          | 21-7474               |
| 15. |       |          | NOV 1 6 1956          |

FORM
1 DEC 33 6:0 USE PREVIOUS SECRET CONFIDENTIAL CIA INTERNAL UNCLASSIFIED
EDITIONS BSE DAY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

29 JUL 1952

Chief, Staff C
Attention: Staff C/PB
Chief, Special Security Division

JO 9545
#69488 McLendon, Gordon Barton

1.  Reference is made to your request for a covert security clearance for the Subject, who is the president of a company which will provide accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this organization.

2.  This is to advise that the covert security clearance, as requested, is hereby denied.

FOR THE SECURITY OFFICER, CIA:

Robert K. Cunningham


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SECRET
Security Information

27 July 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, I & S

VIA : P/AT
TEC/FEB

SUBJECT : Gordon Barton McLendon

1. It is requested that the case on Gordon Barton McLendon be closed, since this office has no further interest in subject.

2. The request for covert security clearance on Mr. McLendon was submitted on 11 February 1962.

LLOYD CROOK
Chief, FI

FE/III/PC/MSC:al
Dist: Addressee - Orig. & 1
COB - 1
FE/FI - 1
STC/SPB - 1
FE/III/PC Chrono - 1
RI - 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

-SECRET

MEMORANDUM TO: OD/CP/Sec 11 February 1952

FROM: FE/III/PC

SUBJECT: Gordon Barton McLendon

1.  Covert Clearance, for use as outlined below, it is requested for Subject, on whom available information is submitted separately.

    _ Op. Clearance XX Security Clearance _ Op. Support _ Sp. Inquiry

2.  Use of Subject: (State in detail the scope and nature of activities to be performed, their duration, the area involved, project involved, etc.)

    Subject is the president of a company which will provide accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this organization. It is not expected that subject will learn of the agent's connection with this organization, however, clearance is requested to so inform subject of the connection if the need may arise at a later date. Subject will know nothing of operations conducted by this agent, only that he is connected with CIA.

3.  "Cover" story suggested for investigation: _ Governmental XX Commercial

    Details: General Credit _ Other

4.  Limits, if any, to investigation: None

5.  Is Subject aware that an investigation is in process: Yes No X

6.  Is Subject aware of CIA interest? Yes No X

7.  Has Subject been briefed on "cover" story? Yes No X

8.  Has Subject established "cover" for investigation with probable contacts? Yes No X

9.  Is Prov. Operational Clearance necessary? Yes No X

10. Investigation to be _ Routine _ Expedite
    Must be completed by: 1 June 1952

11. REMARKS:

Security Officer Case Officer Howell J. Christy

Branch Chief James G.I. Keltie


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECRET

TO: ASST. DEPUTY (DEFECTION & SECURITY)

Date: ______

FROM: CD/OP/OPC (Sec)

J.G.: ______

SUBJECT:

1.  Necessary covert investigation is requested on -Subject on whom all available background data is submitted separately. Information and/or clearance is requested for case category as follows:

Operational Cl. Security Cl. Sp. Inquiry Operational Support

2.  Name of Special Project (if applicable): DTMIKADO

3.  Investigation to be completed as: ☑ Routine Expedite
    by not later then 1 June 1952

4.  Scope and nature of use or activity:

Subject is the president of a company which will provide
accreditation in Japan to a contract agent of this organization. It is not expected that subject learn of the agent's connection with this organization, however,

5.  Suggested "cover" for investigation: Governmental Commercial
    Other
    Specific:

6.  Limitations, if any, on investigation:

7.  Subject HAS/HAS NOT been briefed that investigation is pending.

8.  Subject HAS/HAS NOT been briefed on "cover" story to be used in investigation.

9.  Subject HAS/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts investigation pending.

10. Subject HAS/HAS NOT indicated to probable investigative contacts "cover" story to be used.

11. CIA indices checks required for provisional operational clearance by

(date)

12. REMARKS:

FORM 50.
A.S. 1951

SECRET

JOHN F. BREMER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Name- Gordon Barton McLendon
Address-9300 Douglas, Dallas Texas
Place of Birth-atlanta Texas/(Idabelle) Oklahoma-age 30
Military History-1942 Entered Navy Jamanese Language School, Boulder, Colo.
1943- Graduated Navy Japanese Logic, School
1944-Commissioned!!SNavy Assigned as Intelige Officer, ONI/.
Discharged as Lt(JG)
Education-Graduated Yale University
1946-ittended Harvard Law School
Wife's Name-Gay Noe(Daughter of James A. Noe former Gov. of Louisiana)
Subject has four children.
Present Occupation- President of Liberty Broadcasting System.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

ABSTRACT OF DOCUMENT BEING C2055 FILED

FILE NO.

JG-9545

SOURCE

STC/SP3

DATE OF DOCUMENT

XXXX

ANALYST

XXXX

CROSS FILED BY

FE

SUBJECT: McLENDON, Gordon Barton
Born: Atlanta, Texas; Palabelle,
Oklahoma, algs 30 (in 1952)

DATE

26 Jan 55

PERTINENT INFORMATION

THERE IS A RESTRICTED STC/SPB FOLDER ON THE SUBJECT OF THIS 201 HELD IN RI/AR FILE, WASH-CIA-PERS-4.

CROSS REFERENCE FORM

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

201 79764


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)