# UNCLASSIFIED

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SUBJECT: (Optional) Review for Approval - Manuscript Submitted by Mr. David A. Phillips

FROM: J. F. Meehan
C/EAB, 4E33 Hq.

EXTENSION NO. 7770
DATE 5 Jan 1976

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building).

1. C/CCS
   GH-44, Att: Mr. H. Schor

Subject, a retired Agency staff employee and former C/LA Div., has submitted the attached manuscript containing three (3) chapters of a book he has in preparation. Coordination for review and comment is requested to determine if the material: (1) is classified, (2) was learned while the writer was employed by the Agency, or (3) has not been placed in the public domain by the Agency.

Please note author's query for information contained in paragraph 3 of his letter FYI. The author had previously submitted Chapters I and VIII which were security approved with deletions.

Coordination for review is being conducted with LA Div., CI Staff, CCS, DDO/SS/SOG, and DDO/SSU.

It would be appreciated if this office could have your comments before COB 16 Jan 1976.

I TO 9

SEE CCS COMMENTS ON REVERSE SIDE

![ccs 7 JAN 1976]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

1 to 9:

CCS recommends deletion of that part of the last sentence, following the semi-colon of the first paragraph on page 10 of Chapter XI, which identifies (Camp Perry) as the site of Agency training courses. (Camp Perry) is an Agency training installation (under DOD cover), and while its CIA affiliation has been alleged numerous times in the press, no confirmation of this affiliation has been made by the Agency. Mr. Phillips' comments as a former senior Agency officer can be interpreted as constituting official acknowledgement of the CIA/CAMP PERRY relationship.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)