# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY

5 December 1996

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Fredrick C. Wickham @ DO
DO JFK Focal Point

FROM:

J. Barry Harrelson
CSI/HRG
JFK Project Officer

SUBJECT:

Priority Requests from ARRB Staff

REFERENCE:

REQUESTS:

1.  The ARRB Staff is planning to interview Russ Holmes about his JFK Ancillary (working) Files. Dave Marwell has requested that Holmes be given on one day clearance so that he can look to the files. How do you want to handle?

2.  Has David Vance Vanek (SSN 482-36-5577) ever worked for the Agency (DO)? Vanek is an army officer who served in Thailand and Vietnam; could have been detailed to Agency. He figures in one of the conspiracy theories that the ARRB staff is currently taking depositions on. Can Do check or is this an OP issue -- we have not had a lot of luck with OP. Initially the ARRB staff was going to make this a formal request, but agreed to hold off for the moment. The theory involves counter-terrorism training and the death of an American with knowledge of JFK assassination.

3.  Agency Officers in Moscow: The ARRB staff is researching Oswald's contacts in Moscow. The records shows that he came into contact with other Americans besides Snyder (the Consular Officer). Gunn requested a list of the CIA officers in Moscow a few weeks ago. Based on discussions with Ellie, etc., I told him a list did not exist and would be considered very sensitive if we did prepare one. I ask him to be more specific; if he had names, we would check against Agency records. Since then his staff has located a list of senior officers in Moscow prepared for the HSCA (Eileen has copy). He has now resurrected his requests. Let discuss the next step.

4.  Did Mrs. G. Stanley Brown (Verna Deane Stebbens Brown, born 12 August 1928) work for the Agency; what was her status when she was in Moscow as Embassy receptionist/secretary? She is the wife of George Stanley Brown, an Agency employee from 1952-1962. According to the ARRB staff, she had contact with Oswald (see item #3).

I will give you a call on Friday to discuss our responses to the above request..

CC:

ADMINISTRATIVE INTERNAL USE ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW · 2nd Floor · Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 · Fax: (202) 724-0457

October 27, 1996

Mr. Barry Harrelson
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

## CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
## RELEASE IN FULL
## 2000

Re: Status of Assassination Records Review Board Requests to CIA for
Additional Information and Records

Dear Barry:

I am writing to follow-up on our letter of October 7, 1996, regarding the status of
Assassination Records Review Board requests for information and records from the
CIA.

Formal Requests:

CIA-1

Review Board staff review continues. No CIA action needed at this time.

CIA-6 (Cables and dispatches)

CIA has agreed to make records available (or to have a response ) by
November 1, 1996.

CIA-7 (Histories)

Counterintelligence. ÇIA has made material available and Review Board
staff examination is ongoing.

Mexico City. The Review Board awaits CIA's compilation of the portion
of the Mexico Station history that was shown to G. Robert Blakey.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 2

Other Histories. No response has been received to our agreement that CIA identify within two weeks the histories that can be made available and those that should be subject to further discussions.

CIA-8 (Intelligence community staff)

CIA had promised to provide a report to the Review Board within two weeks. Nothing has been made available.

CIA-9 (Publications and analytical materials)

We have received no materials responsive to this request. Additionally, no response has be received from CIA regarding the list of publications that are identified in an LBJ Library finding aid that the Review Board staff provided.

CIA-10 (Interagency source register)

CIA has not yet made available the records that it had agreed to provide within two weeks. (was Oswald on)

CIA-11 (Duran's original statement)

CIA has agreed to make some further attempts to locate Duran's original statement.

CIA-12 (JMWAVE materials)

CIA has agreed to make materials available on a rolling basis.

Informal requests:

Spas Rankin. CIA has made the Spas Rankin file available to the Review Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff will discuss issues with CIA.
IN 23738. CIA is searching for cable number IN 23738 (7 July 1962). - copy sent

Marilyn Murrett. CIA has made the Marilyn Murrett file available to the Review Board. Review Board staff research continues. When research is complete, staff


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

Mr. Barry Harrelson
October 27, 1996
Page 3

will discuss issues with CIA.

HTLINGUAL. It is the Review Board staff's understanding that CIA continues its search for HTLINGUAL records and will provide an oral briefing on the subject. It is also our understanding that some HTLINGUAL records have been located, but that they have not yet been made available to the Review Board.

Recent and additional informal requests that we have discussed with you:

Operational Reports for Cuban Exile Groups. The Review Board staff has been unable to locate in the collection monthly operational reports for the DRE, CRC, or MRR for the period between March 1963 and March 1964. Please advise us whether these records exist and when we may review them.

Moscow. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding Mosco as discussed with Michelle Combs on October 24, 1996.

Tape. CIA has been asked to search for additional information regarding a tape as discussed with Irene Marr on October 24, 1996.

Please let me know of any inaccuracies in this letter or any suggestions that you have. Thank you for your help and cooperation.

Sincerely,

T. Jeremy Gunn
General Counsel and Associate Director for Research


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# MEMORANDUM

To: Barry Harrelson

From: T. Jeremy Gunn

Subject: Requests to CIA for Records-Related Information- UPDATE

Date: January 9, 1997

The following is a list of our current requests for information. These should be considered informal requests for which we await your response. If you have any additional questions or responses, you should call either Bob Skwirot or the analysts identified below. We are willing to formalize any of the requests into our numbered series if you would so prefer.

|          |          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |         |
| -------- | -------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------- |
| partial  | 9/6/96   | Spas Faikin tiles. Are all files in collection? If CIA has any additional files (e.g., personnel, 201, etc.), we would like to request them.                                                   | Combs   |
| response |          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |         |
| 10/96    |          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |         |
| pending  | 9/6/96   | Spas Raikin file in Box 15 folder 34. Who is the person. signing the DCD messages? Did Raikin work for CIA? Did he work for DCD/OO? What is relationship between documents in file and Raikin? |         |
| pending  | 9/6/96   | Location of cable identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630 (Box 34, F 22) p. 2. Cable number (IN 24738) 7 July 62. We can send fax if helpful.                                             | Legaspi |
| partial  | 9/6/96   | Marilyn D. Murret files. Are all files in collection? If CIA has any additional files (e.g., personnel, 201, etc.), we would like to request them.                                             | Combs   |
| response |          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |         |
| 10/96    |          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |         |
| pending  | 9/96     | Information on HTLINGUAL                                                                                                                                                                       | Combs   |
| complete | 9/96     | Information on Angleton's filing system at Cl                                                                                                                                                  | Combs   |
| 10/96    |          |                                                                                                                                                                                                |         |
| pending  | 10/17/96 | Location of DRE, CRC, MRR(?) monthly operational reports                                                                                                                                       | Legaspi |
| pending  | 10/24/96 | Tapes                                                                                                                                                                                          | Marr    |
| pending  | 10/24/96 | Moscow                                                                                                                                                                                         | Combs   |
| pending  | 11/06/96 | Tapes of Alvarado Interrogation                                                                                                                                                                | Marr    |
| pending  | 12/10/96 | New Orleans, Hunter Leake, Clay Shaw, QKENCHANT, and ZRCLIFF                                                                                                                                   | Legaspi |
| pending  | 12/10/96 | Claude Bames Capehart                                                                                                                                                                          | Skwirot |
| pending  | 01/07/97 | Howard Guebler                                                                                                                                                                                 | Gunn    |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# 13-00000

![Assassination Records Review Board logo]

# Assassination Records Review Board
600 E Street NW - 2nd Floor - Washington, DC 20530
(202) 724-0088 - Fax: (202) 724-0457

re CIA-IR-01

18 DEC97

December 18, 1997

CIA SPECIAL COLLECTIONS
RELEASE IN FULL
2000

Mr. John Pereira
Chief
Historical Review Group
Center for the Study of Intelligence
Central Intelligence Agency
Washington, D.C. 02505

Re: Status of CIA Responses to Assassination Records Review Board's Requests for
Additional Information and Records

Dear John:

I am writing to follow-up on our telephone call earlier today and to convey my serious concern about the status of CIA's responses to the Review Board's requests for additional information and records. Although CIA has completed its responses to several requests, and many others have been answered in part, a significant number of requests have not been answered - including some that were made more than two years ago. On many occasions we have been assured that responses would be forthcoming, only to have promised dates come and go without answers. It is now extremely important that these requests be answered promptly so that we may conduct a proper follow-up if necessary. The issues that we can now identify as being of the highest priority are identified in the text below by double asterisks (**)¹ and we request that they be answered within the next month. We request that the remaining requests be answered by April 1, 1998.

The remainder of this letter is divided into two parts: first, a listing of the formal requests for information and records, and second, a listing of the informal requests for information and records. Please let me know if your understanding of any of the following points differs from ours so that we can resolve any potential discrepancies.

[^1]: As identified more fully below, the issues are: CIA-1 Organizational Material,
CIA-6 Cables and Dispatches, CIA-13 Backchannel Communications, CIA-IR-03
HTLINGUAL Documents, CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton Files, CIA-IR-07 Claude
Barnes Capehart, CIA-IR-15 Electronic "take" from Mexico City, CIA-IR-21 DRE
Monthly Operational Reports, CIA-IR-22 “A” Files on Clay Shaw and Jim Garrison.

BOARD MEMBERS: John R. Tunheim, Chair Henry F. Graff Kermit L. Hall William L. Joyce Anna K. Nelson


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

Mr. John Pereira
December 18, 1997
Page 6

## Informal Requests

Each of the following informal requests was previously made to CIA. For future reference, they will be referred to by the "Informal Request" (IR) number provided below.

CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post from 1959-64 (see RIF 104-10065-10199).

This request is complete.

CIA-IR-02 Location of Cable Identified in JFK 1993.07.20.10.18:29:650630.

This request is complete.

**CIA-IR-03 Full Computer Search for List of Documents in HTLINGUAL File.

CIA agreed to undertake a computer run for all HTLINGUAL documents in April 1997. To date, no response has been received by ARRB. All computer searches for these documents should be documented in a formal letter for the record.

**CIA-IR-04 Disposition of Angleton's Files.

The Review Board seeks to ensure that it has taken all reasonable steps to account for any files that James Jesus Angleton possessed or controlled that related to the assassination and to Lee Harvey Oswald. Because of the perceived controversy surrounding the disposition of Angleton's files, the Review Board believes it prudent to obtain a clear understanding of the types of files that he maintained and their ultimate disposition. (The Review Board does not seek to explore any subjects in Angleton's files beyond those that may have pertained to the assassination.) To date, CIA has made available certain documents provided by the CIC and the case files for *Mangold v. CIA*. The Review Board requests any additional information in the possession of CIA that would explain the disposition of Angleton's files.

In addition, the ARRB staff's review of the *Mangold v. CIA* files designated additional documents from those files as assassination records. These documents are: Tab D, documents Nos. 95, 109-116, 120, and 121; and from the Denied


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# MEMORANDUM

July 20, 1998

To: Jeremy Gunn
Executive Director

cc: Bob Skwirot
CIA Team Leader

From: Michelle Combs
Associate Director for Research and Review

Subject: CIA-IR-01 Personnel Assigned to Post in 104-10065-10199 from 1959-1964

In response to ARRB's first informal request, CIA provided several documents from the Directorate of Operations which contained lists of the CIA employees assigned to the country post found in record number 104-10065-10199. These lists of CIA employees were not designated as assassination records.

e:\combs\cia-ir01.wpd
File 4.20.1 and 4.20.4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

13-00000

12 September 1998

MEMORANDUM FOR: Laura Denk
Executive Director, ARRB

FROM: J. Barry Harrelson
JFK Project Officer, HRP/OIM

SUBJECT: CIA-IR-1, CIA Personnel Assigned to Post
from 1959-64

1. This is in response to referent request.

2. Searches were made for information responsive to the request and materials were provided for examination by ARRB staff. No documents were selected for the JFK Collection.

3. This concludes the Agency's action on this request. If you have any question, please advise.

![signature of J. Barry Harrelson]

J. Barry Harrelson


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)