2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: DC/WH/SA3

INFO: DDP, VR

SECRET 272132Z

DIR INFO SJAN CITE WAVE 8556

1. ACCORDING AMFAST-6 REPORT 25 JUNE, AMBANG-1 INFORMED PEPE GATILLO (JOSE GARCIA VALDE) THEIR DEPARTURE DATE FOR PBRUMEN WOULD BE 1 JULY. BOAT TO BE USED IS UNNAMED RYBOVITCH RENED IN FORT LAUDERDALE AND SUPPOSED BE AT INTERNATIONAL MARINE DOCK 26 JUNE. BELIEVED BE 31-FOOTER WITH TWO CHRYSLER ENGINES EACH 280 HORSE POWER AND SPEED 35 KNOTS. AMBANG-1, GATILLO AND MECHANIC TO USE RYBOVITCH WHILE 1950 GREEN CHRIS CRAFT, OWNED BY ARMANDO ACOSTA AND NOW AT ANACAPRI PIER, 1884 NW NORTH RIVER DRIVE, MIAMI TO SERVE AS MOTHER SHIP, AND BE OCCUPIED BY ARMANDO ACOSTA, ORLANDO "BEBO" ACOSTA SUAREZ, AND BILL CHUS, AMBANG INTEL CHIEF, CHUS TO SERVE AS MECHANIC AND GO ASHORE WITH AMBANG-1.

2. GATILLO TOLD AMFAST-6 THAT HE AND AMBANG-1 TO LEAVE AT 0500 ON 1 JULY AND TO MEET OTHER BOAT AT 0900 SAME MORNING OFF


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 15975 PAGE 2

PBPRIME COAST WHERE CHRIS CRAFT TO SUPPLY RYBOVITCH WITH 203 GALLONS
GASOLINE. THEY EXPECT ARRIVE COJIMAR ABOUT 20 HOURS AFTER DEPARTURE.
ON THEIR ARRIVAL THEY TO BE MET BY RAUL PEREZ, AKA "MIRRINGA,"
CALLE REAL 138, COJIMAR WHO TO TAKE THEM HABANA. PEREZ WIFE'S
NAME ROSA 06

3. GATILLO BELIEVES AMBANG-1 ACTUALLY PLANS LEAVE BEFORE
   I JULY BUT HE DOES NOT WANT ANYONE KNOW EXACT DATE. HE HAS TOLD
   ALL THOSE GOING WITH HIM BE READY BEFORE I JULY.

4. ON 24 JUNE GATILLO TOLD AMFAST-6 THAT AMBANG-1 WOULD REMAIN
   PBRUMEN ABOUT 15 DAYS IN ORDER COORDINATE PLAN OF ACTION WITH
   PEOPLE THERE AND IN ORDER TO SEE CERTAIN PEOPLE CLOSE AMTHUG-1
   WHO PLOTTING WITH AMBANG-1. DATE TO RETURN TO PBRUMEN AND PICK
   UP AMBANG-1 TO BE SET AT TIME AMBANG-1 LANDS PBRUMEN. AMBANG-1
   PLANS CALL ALL ORGANIZATION MEMBERS FOR VERY IMPORTANT MEETING AT
   WHICH TIME HE TO DEPART FOR PBRUMEN INSTEAD. THIS TO BE 27 OR 28
   JUNE.

5. GATILLO ALSO TOLD AMFAST-6 ON 24 JUNE THAT NICOLAS SALADO
   MATA LEFT 23 JUNE FOR WEST PALM BEACH BY TRUCK WITH TRAILERED BOAT
   WHICH BELONGS AMBANG ORGANIZATION. MOTOR OF BOAT TO BE REPAIRED
   IN WEST PALM BEACH AND THEN BOAT TO BE SHIPPED PUERTO RICO ABOARD
   FERRY. GATILLO SAID TWO MEN CLAIMING BE ODENVY AGENTS WENT TO PIER
   LOOKING FOR SALADO AND BOAT. THEY ANGRY TO FIND BOTH GONE: GATILLO
   COMMENTED THEY DID NOT LOOK LIKE ODENVY AGENTS AND HE DOUBTS THEY

SECRET.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 15975 PAGE 3

WERE. AMOT TRACES REVEAL JOSE NICOLAS SALADO MATA BORN IS MAY 25
IN ISABELA DE SAGUA, LAS VILLAS, LEFT PERUMEN 25 SEPT 61 AND
ARRIVED WAVE AREA ON OLGA ON 27 SEPT. ASSIGNED NUMBER A 12 493 733.
WAS FISHERMAN AND KNOWS NORTH COAST VARADERO VERY WELL. (SEE WAVE 8375, NOT SENT SJAN, FOR ALLEGED REPORT SALADO TOOK ELOY
GUTIERREZ ΜΕΝΟΥO PBRUMEN.)

6. ACCORDING AMRAZZ-1 REPORT 24 JUNE, MAX LESNICK SAID ON
   23 JUNE THAT AMBANG-1 INVITED NEW YORK BY CHIEF LATIN AMERICAN
   SECTION TIME MAGAZINE AND THAT HE LEAVING FOR NEW YORK MORNING 24
   JUNE. LESNICK SAID AMBANG-1 TOLD HIM HIS VISIT TO NEW YORK CONCERNED
   PUBLICITY WHICH APPEARED TIME ABOUT HIS ARREST AND TELEGRAM OF
   PROTEST WHICH HE HAD SENT TO TIME ABOUT FALSENESS PUBLICITY.
   LESNICK TOLD AMRAZZ-1 HE VERY CONFIDENT AMBANG-1 WOULD LEAVE FOR
   PBRUMEN WITHIN TWO WEEKS.

7. ON 25 JUNE AMRAZZ-1 SAID ED REINGOLD OF TIME TOLD HIM ON
   24 JUNE THAT AMBANG-1 HAD GONE NEW YORK THAT DAY TO MEET WITH HIS
   BOSS GEORGE DANIELS AND THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY BE BACK WAVE AREA
   25 JUNE. REINGOLD DISCLAIMED INTENTION MAKING FUN AMBANG-1 IN HIS
   ARTICLE. HE SAID HE HAD NOT MENTIONED ANYTHING TO EFFECT THAT
   AMTHUG-1 NUST BE' LAUGHING AT HIM AND THAT THIS HAD BEEN PUT IN BY
   NEW YORK RE-WRITE MAN WHO DOES NOT LIKE AMBANG-1.

8. ACCORDING AMTAUP-2, IN DD-988 OF 24 JUNE, WHO TALKED WITH
   AMBANG-1 ON 23 JUNE, AMBANG-1 SAID HE GOING ZRMETAL 24 JUNE. AMOT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 15975 PAGE 4

AGENT ACCIDENTALLY OBSERVED AMBANG-1 LEAVE HOUSE AT NW 38TH ST AND
19TH AVE AT 9:45 24 JUNE AND PROCEED TO JACKSON BYRONS WHERE HE
WAS MORNING 24 JUNE. (WAVE COMMENT: AMBANG-I MAY HAVE BEEN
ATTEMPTING LEAK MISLEADING INFO TO PRECLUDE DISCOVERY HIS ACTUAL
WHEREABOUTS.)

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)