# CONFIDENTIAL

2 June 1973

MEMORANDUM FOR : Chief, Building Security Branch

FROM : Joseph K. Moore & (Joe C. Liggett)

SUBJECT : Tour of Duty Report 0900-1700 Hours

1. 0900 - Entered on duty. Reviewed the current OSDO instructions and the previous Tour of Duty Reports.

2. 0900 - Agency Operator transferred to the OSDO a call from Nick Horrack, Newsweek Magazine wishing contact with the DCI/SA. Contacted Mr. Thuermer's residence and was advised to have Horrack call Thuermer at home. JCL

3. 0900 - (Gordon Woll) CCS, requested and received home telephone number of (Hugh Ennis) SB. CES

4. 0904 - Dr. Cameron, MED/DO, requested and received the home telephone number of (Marvin N. Flaherty) COM. JCL

5. 0908 - Dr. Cameron, MED/DO, advised he can be reached via Pageboy #134, until further notice. JCL

6. 0930 - Mr. Carter, GSA Engineer, advised that one of the bay doors at the South Loading Dock is malfunctioning. Efforts to contact Mr. Harrington, Building Manager, and/or an elevator mechanic met with negative results. OSDO directed Mr. Carter to close the door by any means-and to secure it. JKM-JCL

7. 1010 - REFERENCE ITEM #6 ABOVE- Mr Carter advised that the bay door had been closed mannually and secured. Request Monday day shift advise GSA Building Manager. JKM

8. 1038 - (Mike Lander), Safety/DO, advised he may be reached via Unit #68 or his home phone the remainder of the weekend. JCL

9. 1045 - Mr. (James Bennett), spouse of (Donna Bennett), OSR, called through the Agency Operator and requested assistance in contacting his wife, who is working overtime in the building. SDO contacted Mrs (Bennett) who advised she would call her husband. JKM

10. 1050 - (Bert Griffen), FE, requested and received the home telephone number for (Jim Londergan) OS. JKM

# CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)