# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

8 November 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Contact Report on Meeting with AMRUNG-1 201-220613

1. On 5 November at 1130 hours, AMRUNG-1 and HECKER were met at the Washington Airport by undersigned. They were then taken by taxi to the Mayflower Hotel, where a room had been reserved for their use. After having lunch at the hotel, the party adjourned to the room, where AMRUNG-1 was given a short briefing on Francisco Castell, the /T operator who was scheduled to meet AMRUNG-1 at 1400 hours.

2. At 1400 hours, the undersigned went to the lobby of the hotel where Francisco was waiting with Ray Garcia, his escort officer. Garcia was instructed to bring Francisco to the room. It was agreed in advance of this that all principals would with draw from the room to give AMRUNG-1 an opportunity to talk with Francisco alone. However, it was suggested that Garcia return a half hour before the interview was terminated to clear us any points as to the nature of Francisco's training, or any aspects that AMRUNG-1 might wish to clarify. The interview with Francisco was terminated about 1510 hours, as AMRUNG-1 stated he would be pleased to have Francisco assigned to him. All indications were that a happy rapport was established between the principals and a completo understanding was reached as to the future role of Francisco as the /T operator for the AMYUM group in Cuba.

3. At approximately 1535 hours, Andy Rogers put in his appearance at the room and was introduced to AMRUNG-1 as Mr. Rodrick. Prior to this meeting, AMRUNG-1 was told that Mr. Rodrick was the coordinator for operations and would like to discuss some of the more specific aspects with him, prior to his return to Cuba. Cecil Cartwright, who had escorted AMRUNG-1 to Washington, asked to sit in on this meeting along with Peters and Rogers as he felt that MASH should be fully informed on whatever operational matters were discussed with AMRUNG-1 for more effective future coordination between Headquarters and MASH. Rogers indicated no objections to this and stated he was glad to have him sit in at this meeting.

4. In substance, Rogers covered most of the highlights dealing with previous attempts to supply the ANTUM group with aras and ammo, and air-maritine operations currently being planned. In this connection, AMRUNG-1 was highly pleased to learn that a 4,000 pound

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

-2-

shipment had been successfully infiltrated to his group during his absence and again urged that more such shipments should be stepped up in the future. 03 [Rogers] then briefly discussed the SINNF operation and asked AMRUNG-1 if he didn't think this area for the DZ was already "blown" due to the number of people who already knew of his operation. (This includes S other people besides AM-1 and A RUNG-1.) AMRUNG-1 stated he was not sure, but would investigate this upon his return. However, he felt that this was an excellent DZ site and should be utilized for any subsequent airdrop scheduled in the Pinar del Rio province 03 [Rogers] informed A'RUNG-1 that his overlays on various LZ's and £2's had been received and were being reviewed by the operations peo, lc. He complimented AVUNG-1 on the excellent work of his cartographer and expressed the view that these CZ areas would be put to good use. Finally, he assured ANANG-l that no stone is being left unturned to provide his group with the necessary materiel support which is critically needed and that this support will be stepped up as our infiltration capabilities are increased both by air and sea. In parting, he cautioned ANG-1 not to take any unnecessary chances when he resumed operational activities in Cuba, since his leadership in the AYUN group was vital to our overall interests. The meeting was terminated about 1720 hours as 03 [Rogers] and Peters took their departure.

5. Some of the more significant highlights of the conversations which took place between AVSUNG-1 and the undersigned prior to his meetings with the W/T operator (Francisco) and 03 [Rogers] are noted herewith:

a. Security: Castro has taken stringent action in tightening up his internal security against counter-revolutionary forces inside Cuba. The militia are being used to search houses for concealed weapons (usually by a block system), and anyone failing to produce proper identification is removed for questioning by the DIER. Hence, ANSUNC-1 and his organization are largely confining their activities to the daylight hours from 0700 to 2000 hours. He considers night operations particularly on the streets of Havana as highly dangerous inasmuch as the Diell (security organs) are constantly on the alert to stop individuals on the street to check their identification documents.

b. Documentation of Agents in Cuba: AMACIG-1 suggested using an identification card issued by the Havana University for their students. He had a sample copy in his possession, which he claims was readily accepted by Castro security forces as being valid. Similarly, a driver's license properly authenticated along with a health certificate were considered to be good "cover" documents for agents operating in the Havana area. A supply of blank identification cards will be turned over to the Station by ASUNG-1 for transmittal to headquarters for any subsequent documentation of

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

agents who can be passed off as students at the Havana University. (He suggested preparin: cae for his w/t operator (Francisco).

c. Operational Expenditures: Queried on this aspect, AVENG-1 stated his organizati nowould need a vinimum of 50 to 60,000 pesos a month to cover their overall operational expenses. These funds are being used for safehouse maintenance, travel expenses, purchase of vehicles and gascline, ailocation of funds to varicus sub-divisions of the AMYIM organisation located in various provinces of Cuba, and purchase of food and support of various arents whose families may be in dire need of food and medical supplies.

d. W/T oerators: To date, both AMPANIC-14 and AVGLEN-1 have not mot the requirements for effective communication with us on AMYIM operations. However, AMENG-1 feels that AMPANIC-14 has not been compromised or turned by the DUCK and once he rets over his nervous state, it is possible he can still be used. Similarly, although AVGLEN-1 is considered to be a go d w/T cerator, AMENG-1 feels his usefulness to him has been considerably nepated by the nature of his assignment at the Naval base and his recent restrictions to this base by orders of the Castro recire. In short, AMUNG-1 feels communication is the weakest link in his current cperations and that direct com-unications with the Embassy is growing increasingly hazardous, due to the fact that Embassy personnel are under close surveillance by the Castro cecurity forces. For this reason he feels that Francisco will fill a sericus wid in this respect, once he is infiltrated into the AMYIK organisation in Cuba.

e. Support for other anti-Castro crops in Cuba: AMUNG-1 stated that all materiel support should be funneled directly to his organiza-tien for distribution to other anti-Castro crops in Cuba. In his view this would sorve as a control factor in unifying the over-all effort of the varicus splinter troups seeking svet support in Cuba and ould also enhance the prestige of the MRR as the spear head for the FRENTE. He then went on to add that he was fully aware of our efforts to support other groups in Cuba, which he assumed we were operating with on a unilateral basis. (1.6., he sited Nino Dias in Oriente). AMUNG-l felt this was a serious mistake, as this unilateral support would affect the leadership and direction new being provided by the MRR throughout Cuba. The undersigr.ed told AMUNG-l that he agreed on the desirability of a coordinate d effort on the part of all counter-revolutionary groups seeking to overthrow Castro using the FRENTE as the rally-ing center. However, the question of support being etre ted through one channel namely: his organization in Cube, was neither feasible nor practical. The fact that Castro had tightened up security throughout the various provinces of Cuba, wdrake it difficult or impossible for the AYLH group to ship arms and other equipsent from Havana to the eastern rost provinces (s.e... Las

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

Villas, Caraguay or Oriente) without jeopardizing both shiprents
und person el. Hence, the need for unilateral action on our
part to supply these fighting groups in these provinces. This
explanation appeared to satisfy ANEUNO-1, however he still insisted
that his organizati n should at least be appraised of any rateriel
support provided other groups in Cuba. He was assured that we
would take his request under consideration.

f. ANDIDAY-1: AMRUNO-1 feels that no useful purpose would be served
in sending his asociat to join forces with him in Havana. He
feels that AF BIDDY-1 should continue to represent the AYUM
faction in the Fad and when the counter-revolutionary forces aro
fully prepared to overthrow the Castro regire, AFRIDCY-1 will be
brought into the Pinar del Rio to direct the ly forces in this
province.

g. Nanolo Ray: AMAUNG-l considers RAY as a highly dangerous individual
because of his great ambition to play a prominent role in any
subsequent Cuban gov rnrent following the overthrow of the Castro
regime. In his opinion, RAY poses a serious threat to VARONA'S
leadership and the FRD inside Cuba. He is attempting to draw
various dissident groups to his banners and appears to have support
from the riddle class represented by business interests, politicians,
and the professional class. Should air be persuaded to join
forces with the FRD, AMDUNG-l thinks he will continue to operate
on & unilaterai basis while seeking to supercede the FRD with
his own cryanization in Cuba.

h. Tony Varona and the FRD: Although ANKUNG-1 recognizes the need
to support the FRD as a political front for rallying counter-
revolutionary groups against the Castro regime, he n'netheless
feels that the FIENTE and Tony VEROVA have lost considerable face
in Cuba by inaction and political maneuvering. He further pointed
out that he is aware that thousands of dollars rad been poured into
the FRETE, but dissident groups in Cuba hove seen no evidence of
any of this money to sup ort their efforts to cverthrow Castro.
Hence, confidence in the FID is at a rolatively low ebb among the
people in Cuba and a new shot in the arm in the form of materiel
and financial support is needed to restore this confidence. Ac-
cording to PRUNG-1 this cup, ort must be forthcoming soon because
such poole as Manolo RAY are taking the initiative and will soon
control the entire counter-revolut onary movement in Cuba.

John D. Peters

SECRE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)