# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 95-2263468 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

SECRET FRP: , , , ,

STAFF

CONF: C/OCC INFO: ALA/LI/CAM, CCDORECORD, CIC/LA, CIC/OGTOB,
D/OGC, LA/CSCMED, LA/MCG, LA/MCGCEN, LA/MCGMXB, LA/MCGRR, LA/MRSRMB,
LA/NARC, MDSX, OCC/OSG, OCC/RB, ODPD, OGC/LD, ORMS/LA, SMFO, FILE,
C/LA/RB5, C/PCS, DC/LA/RB5 (4/P)

95 2263468 ASP PAGE 001 DIRECTOR 524828

TOT: 111719Z NOV 95

SECRET 111719Z DIRECTOR 524828

STAFF

TO: PRIORITY MEXICO CITY.

FROM: CHIEF/OCC INFO OCC/OSG, CHIEF/PCS, OGC/LD, OGC/OFLD,
LA/MCGMXB, LA/MCGCEN, LA/SA, LA/MCG

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR STATION ASSISTANCE

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: REQUEST STATION CONTACT FORMER EMPLOYEES WHO RETIRED UNDER COVER AND RESIDE IN MEXICO.

* 2. BASED ON OUR COMPLIANCE WITH PRESIDENT<JFK ASSASSINATION>
     RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992, HQS REQUESTS (STATION'S ASSISTANCE
     IN DELIVERING INFORMATION INCLUDED BETWEEN TEAR LINES TO IDENS A
     AND B.

---TEAR

LINE-

NOVEMBER 9, 1995

DEAR COLLEAGUE:

PLEASE BE AWARE THAT YOUR NAME APPEARS IN DOCUMENTS THAT ARE
BEING REVIEWED FOR RELEASE TO THE PUBLIC UNDER PUBLIC LAW 102-526
*OF 26 OCTOBER 1992, THE PRESIDENT<JOHN>F.<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>
RECORDS COLLECTION ACT OF 1992. THIS MANDATES THE PUBLIC RELEASE
OF ALL INFORMATION IN THESE DOCUMENTS, INCLUDING YOUR NAME WHERE
IT APPEARS, UNLESS THE ORIGINATING AGENCY CAN PROVE BY CLEAR AND
CONVINCING EVIDENCE TO A PRESIDENTIALLY-APPOINTED BOARD THAT ONE
OR MORE LIMITED EXCEPTIONS APPLY: EVEN THEN, THE RELEASE OF THE
INFORMATION MAY ONLY BE POSTPONED FOR NO MORE THAN 25 YEARS. THE
ACT IS VERY PRO-RELEASE AND REQUIRES A BALANCING OF THE PUBLIC
INTEREST.

UNDER THE BOARD'S INTERPRETATON OF THE ACT, YOUR NAME CANNOT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 95-2263468                                                                                                                                     PAGE: 2

SECRET

SENSIND:

BE REDACTED FROM THE DOCUMENTS TO BE RELEASED UNLESS WE CAN
PROVIDE EVIDENCE THAT THIS RELEASE WOULD POSE A CREDIBLE THREAT TO
YOU PERSONALLY, YOUR FAMILY, OR ANY SENSITIVE ACTIVITY OR
PERSON (S) YOU MAY HAVE BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH IN THE PAST. IF YOU
BELIEVE THAT ANY OF THESE CONCERNS WOULD BE RAISED FROM THE PUBLIC
RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, PLEASE CONTACT BERT MILLS AT (703) 356-02857
[OR 1-800-447-2211. YOU WILL NEED TO PROVIDE THE PERTINENT DETAILS
SO THAT A COMPELLING CASE CAN BE PRESENTED TO THE BOARD. IF THE
BOARD ORDERS THE RELEASE OF YOUR NAME, ITS RULING CAN BE REVERSED
ONLY BY THE PRESIDENT. BECAUSE THE BOARD MUST COVER HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF DOCUMENTS IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF YEARS, IT WILL BE
CONSIDERING DOCUMENTS AT AN ACCELERATING PACE AND WE CANNOT
PROJECT WHEN IT MAY REVIEW A DOCUMENT CONTAINING YOUR NAME.
THEREFORE PLEASE CONTACT ME AS SOON AS POSSIBLE IF APPROPRIATE.

SINCERELY,
(SIGNED BERT MILLS)

LINE

--TEAR--

2. HQS WOULD PREFER THAT IDENS PASS-RESPONSES TO STATION
   OFFICER FOR FORWARDING TO HQS VIA THIS CHANNEL. APPRECIATE
   STATION'S ASSISTANCE.

3. CL REASON: 1.5(C) DECL ON: X1 DRV FROM: COV 2-87
   FILE: 785-120-034. DECL OADR DRV COV 2-87.>

RELNO: E277867

ORIG: OCC/OSG (MATHIAS,37076); AUTH: OCC/OSG (BURGGRAF); COORD:
LA/MCGMXB (CADENA), LA/MCGCEN (BECK), LA/SA (HAYES); INFO:
CHIEF/PCS (MASSENGALE), OGC/LD (EATINGER), OGC/OFLD (CRAWFORD),;
REL: LA/MCG (MALLET). CL BY 0489932.

END OF MESSAGES

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)