# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 96-4653466 SECRET PAGE: 1
SENSIND: RYBAT:

// SECRET FRP: ,2, , , ,

STAFF

ACTION: EUR/PLANS (694) INFO: EUDORECORD, MDSX, NR/OPSB, NR/ORG, OCC/CRG, OCC/RB, ODPD, RYBAT, FILE (0/W)

96 4653466 ASP PAGE 001 IN 4653466
TOR: 031305Z JUL 96 NEWA 20442

SECRET 031358Z JUL 96 STAFF

CITE NEWARK 20442

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT EUR/PLANS INFO OCC/CRG, NR/ORG, NR/OPSB

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT FASTTRACK MXLETTER

SUBJECT: CONTINUATION OF PAYMENT TO C/LPAVERT FOR E-MAIL ACCOUNT

REF: A. NEWARK 19245
B. DIRECTOR 415240

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: PLEASE ADVISE IF THERE IS INTEREST IN C/LPAVERT RENEWING HIS COMPUSERVE ACCOUNT PER BELOW.

2. ON 25 JUNE 1996, C/LPAVERT CALLED STATION AND ASKED FOR RECENTLY RESIGNED C/O GERALD K. HAUSELNAN REGARDING WHETHER HE SHOULD RENEW HIS COMPUSERVE ACCOUNT. ACCORDING TO REF A AND AS REFLECTED IN HIS MOU, LPAVERT RECEIVED US$1,700 AS AN ADMINISTRATION FEE FOR THE E-MAIL ACCOUNT WHICH HE OPENED ON NWBOLTON'S BEHALF.

3. PER REF B PARA 3, WE NOTED THAT C/LPAVERT TOLD IC MACDONALD E. ZAPPLEY IN AUGUST 1995 THAT HE WAS CONVINCED THAT *NWBOLTON WAS INVOLVED IN THE<ASSASSINATION>OF<PRESIDENT>* *<KENNEDY.> IN LIGHT OF THAT REMARK, EUR DECIDED NOT TO USE THE ACCOUNT FOR A SENSITIVE FIELD ASSET BUT RATHER FOR AN APPLICATION OF LESS SENSITIVITY. REF B ADVISED FURTHER THAT THE ACCOUNT MIGHT BE DROPPED AFTER THE FIRST YEAR.

4. STATION HAS HAD NO CONTACT WITH C/LPAVERT SINCE 20 SEPTEMBER 1995. PLEASE ADVISE IF STATION SHOULD REQUEST C/LPAVERT RENEW HIS ACCOUNT, WHICH IS DUE TO EXPIRE IN AUGUST.

5. CL BY 0535054; CL REASON: 1.5 (C); DECL ON: X1; DRV FROM: HUM 4-82.

6. FILE: CS-6754; 201-1490579.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)