# 14-00000
# 104-10110-10298
# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

REQUEST PUR OFFICIAL COVER ACTION

1. WHEN REQUESTING INITIAL COVER OR 2. WHEN CHANGE OR REMOVAL IS REQUESTED ROUTING SHOULD BE:
   ON RETURN FROM OVERSEAS ROUTING (COMPLETE SECTION 2)
   SHOULD BE: (COMPLETE SECTION 1)

TO: CCS/OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH
(Use Form 610 Routing & Record Sheet)
FROM: [CIA Security]
THRU: OS/SSD

TO: CCS/OFFICIAL COVER BRANCH
(Use Form 610 Routing & Record Sheet)
FROM: RETURN TO CIA


SUBJECT'S TRUE NAME (last, first, middle)
Bustos Videla, Charlotte
EMPLOYEE SERIAL NUMBER
007667

ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICIAL COVER FOR SUBJECT IS REQUESTED
SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
069-24-3138
COVER REQUESTED
MILITARY XX STATE OTHER GOVT. AGENCY (specify)
USE OF COVER
DOMESTIC ALL PURPOSE
DOMESTIC OPERATIONAL
INTEGRATED XX NOMINAL

SUBJECT'S CIA AFFILIATION:
HAS. HAS NOT BEEN VOLUNTARILY DECLARED OR INVOLUNTARILY EXPOSED TO ANY
FOREIGN GOVERNMENT OR FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE SERVICE. THERE HAS. HAS NOT BEEN ANY OTHER EXPOSURE OR
COMPROMISE WHICH SHOULD BE CONSIDERED IN THIS REQUEST. (If an affirmative answer is given provide details on
separate attachment.)

JUSTIFICATION FOR REQUESTED ACTION:

Ms. Bustos-Videla is currently assigned to the Trinidad Station under Integrated State cover. It is requested that
she be placed under Nominal State cover for her future Headquarters assignment.


CHANGE OR REMOVAL OF OFFICIAL COVER STATUS FOR SUBJECT IS REQUESTED
JUSTIFICATION FOR REQUESTED ACTION:



SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF REQUESTING OFFICER
Jonathan G. Hanke. C/LA/PEMS
FOR OFFICE OF SECURITY
DATE:

DO YOUR RECORDS REFLECT ANY EXPOSURE, COMPROMISE, SECURITY OR OTHER FACTORS WHICH SHOULD BE CONSIDERED
IN MAKING A COVER DETERMINATION IN RESPONSE TO THE ABOVE REQUEST? (If the answer is affirmative
provide details on separate attachment.)

OFFICE OF SECURITY
NO PERTINENT
INFORMATION
SEE
ATTACHED.
SIGNATURE
APPROVAL

SIGNATURE
DATE

FORM 3-1322. USE IN PREVIOUS EDITIONS. E-2, IMPDET CL BY: 006687 SECRET
OS COPY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)