2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT (Optional)

FROM:
E/BC
4C 20 Hqs

EXTENSION NO:
1413
7220

DATE:
APR 1978

DATE:
APR 1978

OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

CI/RTA

This is the ACTION/INFO copy of a communication received on from MI-6 in Washington.

Hausman

Another copy is being held in E/BC.

Russ Holmes

Any reply should be directed to E/BC for forwarding to Liaison.

Processing by IP is to be determined by.

Coordination with E/BC is required prior to any dissemination of this information outside the DDO.

NB: Richard A. SPRAGUE, Chief Counsel and Director of HSCA, saw a copy of attached document. See his attached letter to Sergyj CZORNONOH, 04 December 1976.

RBH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONFIDENTIAL

Our ref: GEN 1

Dear Art,

30 March 1978

Please find attached correspondence received from one Sergyj CZORNONOH who claims that he provided information about Lee Harvey OSWALD to the American Vice Consul (presumably Tom Blackshear) in Sofia, Bulgaria, in August 1963.

2. I have sent copies of these letters to the FBI and to my Head Office in London.

![signature]

DH Jones
for GML Blackburne-Kane

Mr A H Stimson

Enc.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SERGYJ CZORNONOH
1106-11TH STREET
SACRAMENTO CALIFORNIA 95814

M. Wal

RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
REGISTERED NO. 257254

![post stamp of SACRAMENTO 1978 STATE CAPITOL] ![post stamp of SACRAMENTO 1978 STATE CAPITOL] ![post stamp of SACRAMENTO 1978 STATE CAPITOL]

TO BRITISH EMBASSY
3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, N. W.
WASHINGTON, D. C.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SERGYJ CZORNONDH

1106-11TH STREET
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA, 95814

MARCH 15, 1978

TO BRITISH AMBASSADOR
BRITISH EMBASSY
3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE, N.W.
WASHINGTON, DC.

DEAR SIR.

i WROTE LETTER ON FEBRUARY 15, 1978
TO MR. JAMES CALLAGHAN PRIME MINISTER
I ENCLOSED REGISTERED MAIL NO. 251067.

ON JULY 18, 1963 I WAS IN LONDON ENGLAND
AT THE AIRPORT IMMIGRATION OFFICER NO. 175
I HAD NO VISA IMMIGRATION PLACE ME UNDER
HOUSE ARREST, MR. SMITH IN POLICE UNIFORM
SECRET SERVICE BROUGHT ME STEAK DINNER
AND POLICE OFFICER INTERROGATED ME, HE
ASKED ME WHAT THE EMBASSY OF U.S.S.R, SAY
WHAT DID YOU HEARD IN VIENNA, AUSTRIA,
I SAID I HAVE HEARD THAT ONE AMERICAN
DEFECTOR (MR. LEE HARVEY OSWALD) TO RUSSIA
AND HE RETURNED TO UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA THIS MAN HE PREPARING TO KILL
TO ASSASSINATE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY,
MR. SMITH POLICE OFFICER ASKED ME
DO YOU KNOW HIS NAME, I SAID HIS NAME
START ON "O" HIS NAME WAS PUBLISHED
ONE TIME IN NEWS PAPER IN WASHINGTON
POST, MR. SMITH. POLICE OFFICER SAID
IT EASY TO FIND.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

I DO SEARCHING FOR THIS FILE IN BA
POLICE BRITISH INTELLIGENCE AND
IMMIGRATION, JASKING YOUR EMBASSY
HELP TO FIND THE TRUTH AND I ASK!
GOVERNMENT TO FORWARD MY RECOR
JULY 18, 1963 TO PRESIDENT JIMMY C.
AND SENATOR DANIEL K. INOUYE CHI
21. S. SENATE SELECT COMMITTEE ON IN
GENCE I ENCLOSE HIS copy LETTER TO.
ALSO I ENCLOSE you copy LETTER I
ON FEBRUARY 17, 1978 TO RUSSIAN Ani
YOUR JUSTICE ALWAYS WILL BE APP
MY INCOMING MAIL iS CONTROL BY
FIBI AGENTS SOME OF THE MAIL I
GET NOT FORWARD TO ME FIBI, Sup
My INFORMATION AND TORTURE ME
RESPECTFULLY
"21.S. PASSPORT NO.D0.2.7000 Sergyj (zorn...


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Sergyj Czornonoh
Regis Hotel
1106 11th Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

CITY MANAGERS
ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS
BRITISH EMBASSY

February 6, 1978

Mr. John M. Price
District Attorney
Sacramento, California

Dear Mr. Price:

This is a retyped letter. I visited Mr. Ferry, Deputy District Attorney, on August 16, 1977. I told in the office that F.B.I. agents and Secret Service use police department to harass me. Police department do supply pencil of anesthesia gas to the manager of the building I live. The manager do or use certain people to freeze me by anesthesia gas - then push drugs, poison in my mouth to torture me - to take my sleep away - or bleed by rectal and they use many other chemicals to brainwash me to use me in political assassination which I refused. On January 20, 1976 in Sacramento on 8th and I Streets, man came to me from police or post office, U.S. Department of Justice and freeze me by gas and told me to take gun, pistol and we will tell you where to go to shoot - to kill - Mr. Sargent Shriver. I refused. Manager, Mr. Sisel, of Marshall Hotel, call on the man to tell me this on the street. In February 1976, police intelligence told me that assassination will not happen here. How about to move to Maryland state.

In this letter I ask you to get report from Dr. Frederick S. Baker, M.D. - colon and rectal surgery on January 31, 1978. His phone - 452-4095. I do bleed today very much and I am weak, In this letter I ask you to give re- strain order or respond to me what could be done. The right wing in America made record to use me in assassination. I refuse. I am human and I like to be treated as human. Police put frame up on me - just to take advantages on me. Police use lie, police use mental case to take advantages on me and tell me that right wing do use such people like me. To prove I enclose copy mid- night June 14, 1976. Also I enclose copy letter I sent to Mr. Ted Sheedy, Supervisor, on January 26, 1978 and copy of his reply to me.

Please respond to me. Thank you.

Very truly yours,

Sergyj Czornonoh

Mr. Sargent Shriver was run for President in 1976.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

13-00000

# Legal Center For The Disabled

1722 J STREET, SUITE 19 SACRAMENTO, CA 95814
Telephone: 446-4851

March 3, 1978

Sergyj Czornonoh
1106 11th Street
Sacramento, CA 95814

Dear Mr. Czornonoh:

This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter regarding difficulties you have encountered with the police and the FBI.

In the event that there is legal action taken by the police or the FBI to institutionalize you this office will provide you with legal representation.

If you have any further legal problems please contact this office.

Sincerely,

Leslie Kay

LESLIE KAY
Paralegal

CATHERINE HUGHES
Staff Attorney
LK:ab

> [Figure: Image of a registered mail label with a postmark. The label contains sender and receiver information, postage details, and registration number.]
> The registered mail label has the following details:
> - Registered Number: 251067
> - Value: $No Value
> - Registered Fee: $2.10
> - Special Delivery: $
> - Return Receipt: $
> - Handling Charge: $
> - Restricted Delivery: $
> - Airmail: Checked
> - Postage: $0.93
> - Postmark: Sacramento, CA, Feb 15 1978, State Capitol Station
> - From: Sergyj Czornonoh, 1106 11th Street, Sacramento, CA 95814
> - To: Mr. James Callaghan, c/o Mr. Jan Co Wijngaarden, Office of Ministry, London England


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

D027000

Extensions, amendments, limitations
and restrictions

SOFIA BULGARIA

American LEGATION
SOFIA, BULGARIA

Licensed to AUG. 15-1963

THIS PASSPORT VALID
FOR DIRECT TRAVEL
TO THE UNITED STATES
ONLY

![signature of VICE CONSUL OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA]

VICE CONSUL OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

IMM. & NATZ SERVICE
NEW YORK, N. Y. 14
ADMITTED

AUG 17 1963

CLASS

CO-2-34, 897

Mr. Sergyj Czornonoh

5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

13-00000

copy. 10

BRITISH AMBASSADOR

Sergyj Czornonoh
1106 - 11th Street
Sacramento, California 95814

To Russian Ambassador
Embassy of U.S.S.R.
1125 - 16th Street
Washington, D. C.

Dear Sir:

This is retyped letter from hand written

Mr. Wasilev Consul gave me order to transmit this information to U. S. Government, on August 9, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria. Mr. Wasilev, Consul of Embassy of U.S.S.R., gave me this information about Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald on August 14, 1963. Mrs. Besera Asenova, girl friend of Russian Consul came to my room and repeated that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assassin. He will kill President Kennedy.

On August 15, 1963 in Sofia, Bulgaria, at the airport in embassy car, I told to Mr. Blackshire, American Vice Consul, that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald is assissin. He has a weapon or has ordered one. Mr. Blackshire said it seems like he will kill someone. I said that Mr. Lee H. Oswald is preparing to kill President of the United States, John F. Kennedy. Mr. Blackshire said where will it happen. I said they (right wing) will invite President, criticize him in the newspaper, then kill him. Mr. Blackshire told me he will give the telegram to Department of State and he gave me the address where to report.

At 9 a.m. on August 19, 1963 in Washington, D. C., I went to see (Mr. Kippingan) Director of Special Counselor Service Department of State at 1901 Pennsylvania Avenue-11th floor. I told the Director that I have information about President Kennedy. The Director said do not mention name of President Kennedy, only respond to the questions. The Director said tell us what will happen to Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald then. I said Mr. Lee H. Oswald will be killed after kill Kennedy. I said I will take the truth drug to tell the truth. Director tell us who else get killed in this country. I said as I heard, that Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. will be killed. Who will kill Dr. King, Jr. Negro leader? I said a man who is in prison at this time. (Mr. James Earl Ray was in prison at that time.) Director asked where assassination will happen. I said in Dallas, Texas. Director said if someone gave this information here I would expel the man. Director did call on F.B.I. agents after F.B.I. use anesthesia gas to freeze me to drub me to keep amnesia.

I told Director Department of State that Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald have a weapon. Go see him. Director told me you too can have weapon--so what if Oswald got weapon.

Sincerely,

Seryyj zorпопов

Sergyj Csornonoh
U.S. Passport 0027000

U.S House of Representatives
Select Committee on Assassinations told me to write letter to Embassy in early 1977.

Sergyj czornon:
3/15/78


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

13-00000

Sergyj Czornonoh
1106 11th Street
Sacramento, CA 95014

Registered letter No. 251254
March 15, 1978
Retyped letter from handwritten
of March 15, 1978, which I sent

To British Ambassador
British Embassy
3100 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.
Washington, D.C.
Phone 462-1340

Dear Sir:

I wrote letter on February 15, 1978, to Mr. James Callaghan, Prime
Minister. I enclosed registerd mail No. 251067.

On July 18, 1963, I was in London, England at the airport. Immigration
officer No. 175 - I hed no visa - immigration place me under house arrest.
Mr. Smith in police uniform, secret service, bought me steak dinner and
police officer interrogated me. He asked me what the Embassy of U.S.S.R.
say. What did you heard in Vienna, Austria. I said I have heard that one
American Defector (Mr. Lee Harvey Oswald) to Russia and he returned to
United States of America. This man he preparing to kill - to assassinate
President John F. Kennedy.

Mr. Smith, police officer, asked me do you know his name. I said his
nome start on "O". His name was published one time in newspaper in Wash-
ington Post. Mr. Smith, police officer, said it easy to find.

I do searching for this file in British police, British intelligence
and British immigration. I asking your Embassy to help to find the truth
and I ask your government to forward my record of July 18, 1963, to
President Jimmy Carter and Senator Daniel K. Inouye, Chairman U.S. Senate
Select Committee on Intelligence. I enclose his copy letter to me.
I enclose you copy letter I sent on February 17, 1978 to Russian Ambassador.

Your justice always will be appreciated. My incoming meil is control
by the F.B.I. agents. Some of the mail I don't get. Not forward to me.
F.B.I. suppress me my information and torture me by drugs. 27 years
anesthesia gas and freeze me push drug in my mouth.

My U.S. passport No. D027000.

Respectfully yours,

![stamp of registered mail]

Sergyj Czornonoh

![signature]

MARCH 20, 1978


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

Room 316
1106-11 TH STREET
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA
95814

![stamp of the post office] ![stamp of George Washington and the liberty bell, price 13 cents]

TO BRITISH EMBASSY
3100 MASSACHUSETTS AVE.
N. W.
WASHINGTON, D, C,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

13-00000

# United States Senate
650 CAPITOL MALL
SACRAMENTO, CALIFORNIA 95814
OFFICIAL BUSINESS

316

![postmark] S.I. Hayakawa
1978
U.S.S.

Mr. Sergyj Czornonoh
1106 - 11th Street, Room 316
Sacramento, CA 95814


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)