# SECRET 310633Z JAN 73 RESTRICTED HANDLING

CITE (DAR ES SALAAM) 1144

TO: HEADQUARTERS INFO (NAIROBI) (EYES ONLY MASTROME).

MHCURB RYBAT MHCHAOS

REFS: A. (DAR ES SALAAM) 1142 19 Jan 13

B. HEADQUARTERS 9343 6 June 12

C. (NAIROBI) 1268 4 Jan 13

D. HEADQUARTERS 8175 1 Apr 13

E. (NAIROBI) 1233 18 May 12

F. (AJDA) 03452 (NOT SENT (NAIROBI) 13 Mar 12

L. HEADQUARTERS 3001 (NOT SENT (NAIROBI)) 9 Jan 13

H. HEADQUARTERS 3250 19 Jan 13

1. ODOWL/1 DEPARTED DAR FOR NAIROBI 30 JANUARY. IN THREE MEETINGS DURING 9-DAY TDY (ODOWL/1 PROVIDED FOLLOWING NEW DATA:

2. PETE O'NEAL, BPP LEADER, CONTINUES VERY LOW PROFILE. HAS BEEN VISITED ON SEVERAL OCCASIONS BY FRED JOHNSON, ONCE EXCHANGED VISITS WITH SHOO-BE-DOO. FROM JOHN MANNING ODOWL/1 LEARNED O'NEAL NOW RESIDING IN FIRST FLOOR REAR FLAT OF BLDG G IN NEW APARTMENT COMPLEX IN SOUTH DAR ES SALAAM. (APPROX LOCATION COORDINATES 30/43 ON SERIES Y941 EDITION 3 AMS MAP "DAR ES

E2 IMPDET WN-SISM
CL BY 012682


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

14-00000

1

PAGE 2(DAR ES SALAAM) 1144 SECRET

SALAAM-SOUTH"). LIVES WITH WIFE CHARLOTTE AND TWO UNIDENTIFIED

BPP MEMBERS IN APARTMENTS ALLOCATED MAINLY TO UNIDENTIFIED

CHINESE ADVISORS. MANNING STATED THAT O'NEAL. ORIGINALLY OBTAINED

FLAT #7 IN BLDG F ADJACENT TO PRESENT RESIDENCE, FROM SUBJ.

REF B., LEONARD DILLON. DILLON RECENTLY DEPARTED, WITH ONLY

$20 IN HIS POSSESSION, FOR ZAMBIA.

3. JOHN MANNING WAS UNABLE TO CARRY OUT REF C TRIP TO

UGANDA. APPARENTLY WAS STOPPED AT UGANDAN BORDER BY MILITARY

GUARDS AND ADVISED HE WOULD NEED LNFALL DOCUMENT REQUESTING

ENTRY (THE ULTIMATE HUMILIATION--ACCORDING TO MANNING). MANNINGS

INTENTION WAS TO SEE IDI AMIN AND SUGGEST ECONOMIC LIAISON WITH

BLACK MUSLIMS IN U.S. HIS MOST RECENT ATTEMPT TO CONTACT

UGANDAN LEADER WAS LETTER WRITTEN DURING WEEK OF 22 JANUARY TO

AMIN RECOMMENDING THE CHARACTER OF HIS FRIEND JOSEPH "FATMAN"

BROWN IN SUPPORT OF BROWN'S FORTHCOMING RESIDENCE REQUEST. (IT

ISN'T CLEAR WHETHER THIS IS DIRECT RESULT OF NOTIFICATION OF

TANZANIAN AUTHORITIES AND BROWN OF REVOCATION OF BROWN'S U.S.

PASSPORT SEVERAL DAYS EARLIER OR SOME OTHER REASON. HOWEVER,

IN ALL (OPDOWL/1 ELICITATION OF INFO ON UGANDAN CONTACTS OF DAR

MHCHAOS COMMUNITY THERE NO INDICATION ANY CONNECTION WITH PLO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

14-00000

1

17-34
PAGE 3 DAR ES SALAAM 1144 SECRET

22
INTENTIONS TO CONTACT BGACK AMERICAN RADICALS REPORTED IN (AUK)
17-36
2393, KAMPALA 19308.

4. (OPOWL/1 CONTACTED ROOSEVELT BROWN SUBJECT REF D. IN 24.
   JANUARY FOR SHORT CONVERSATION IN WHICH BROWN STATED HE HAD JUST
   COME DOWN FROM NAIROBI. ACCORDING TO (IPHEARTY/1 ROOSEVELT BROWN
   ATTEMPTED RENEW OUTDATED EXCURSION AIR TICKET THAT SAME DAY BUT
   WHEN RENEWAL WAS APPROVED WAS INFORMED BROWN HAD RETURNED NAIROBI
   26 JAN.

5. ON WAY TO RALLY PROTESTING PAIGC LEADER CABRAL'S
   ASSISINATION (OPOWL SPOTTED LYNN (PRINCE HENRY) EVANS AKA FREDRIK -
   ROLLINS, SUBJECT REF E. (EVANS CURRENTLY SUBJECT OF NVIDEA
   REGIONAL SECURITY OFFICER INVESTIGATION DURING DAR TDY)

6. ON VISIT TO PAN AFRICAN SKILLS (PAS) OFFICE, (OPOWL/1 MET
   FRED BROOKS, AND MALIK CHAKA, SUBJECT REF F, LATTER WAS IN MIDST
   FRENETIC ACTIVITY PRODUCING "STATEMENT" FROM PAS FOR DEMONSTRATION
   BRALS
   AT TANU HQS DENOUNCING CA ASSASSINATION.

7. DURING VISITS TO PAS OFFICE, (OPOWL/1 PERFORMED INITIAL
   TECHNICAL SURVEY. (FLOOR PLAN AND NOTES BEING FORWARDED BY
   DISPATCH). EXEMPLAR ELECTRIC OUTLETS NO LONGER OBTAINABLE
   LOCALLY, HOWEVER (OPOWL/1 BELIEVES HE CAN GET THEM IN NAIROBI FOR

alpd


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

14-00000

# 17-34

PAGE 4(DAR ES SALAAM)1144 SECRET

FORWARDING WOLOCK.

8. OPOWL/1 DETERMINED THAT GEORGE RICE AKA GEORGE MATHEWS,
   SUBJECT REF G. WAS RELEASED BY TANZANIAN AUTHOR IT IES SEVERAL
   WEEKS AGO (DESPITE LNFALL IMPRESSION GOVT. STILL PURSUING INIT IAL
   EXTRAD IT ION OFFER). EXPLANATION GIVEN TO(OPOWL/1 BY MANNING AND
   BROOKS FOR ORIGINAL DETENTION OF RICE WAS THAT TANZANIANS HAD
   MISTAKEN RICE FOR HIJACKER GEORGE EDWARD WRIGHT. MFA HAD
   INDICATED TO LNFALL WHEN SUGGESTING EXTRADITION THAT THEY
   BELIEVED RICE TO BE HIJACKER WRIGHT BASED ON NEWSPAPER PHOTOS OF
   DELTA HIJACKERS. IRONY OF WHOLE SITUATION IS THAT WRIGHT, AKA
   LARRY DARNELL BURGESS, WAS IN DAR ES SALAAM AT TIME OF RICE
   DETENTION, ACCORDING TO SEVERAL (OPOWL/1 SOURCES.

9. CURTIS POWELL, SUBJECT REF H, CURRENTLY RESIDES IN SAME
   AREA BUT NOT SAME BUILDING AS PETE O'NEAL. OPOWL/1 AND MANNING
   DROVE POWELL TO AIRPORT ON WEEKEND 27 JANUARY FOR TRIP TO NAIROBI.
   BOTH(OPOWL/1 AND MANNING HAD TO (PORTION GARBLED) TO PAY
   AIRPORT TAX.

10. NO FILE E2, IMPDET WN-SISM.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)