# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992


I made an application for buy a house at 646 S.W and 29 St.
My application through Rose Realty that is located at 6345 Coral Way. I have to pay $ 100 down by the VA plan or $ 300 down by FHA plan and a monthly payment of $ 75.00. I have to use my cover of (Tri State) for my credit references. I fill my application and put in there that I was working for this Company for two years, that my salary was $ 120 a week, and the position in this Company is like an electronic technician, Would you please advise them of all this matter in order that when they will receive the papers from VA or FHA fill them the right way?

I can not use RSCH for the application of this credit because an exile group corporation is no good for this kind of credit references. As I told you I am not going to use @(Tri State) any more but it is an exception.

COVER notified, they will handle. EI 20 September 1966

![signature]

![signature]

-- 29 --

4. (Tri-State Engineering Service, Inc.) is located at 800 First National Bank Bldg., Miami 59, Fla.) The local mailing address is P.O. Box: 3737, Miami 1, Florida. The telephone number is 377-0003 (cover phone located in Cover Branch.) (Mr. Peter T. Fay) is President of the firm. The firm is engaged in the general practice of engineering in all its branches with particular emphasis in the fields of Marine engineering, including marine salvage, underwater research, underwater communications, underwater demolition, and off-shore petroleum and mineral exploration and development.

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)