# SECRET

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO: 93-3246323 SENSIND: SECRET PAGE: 1

FRP: STAFF

ACTION: DC/NRER (547) INFO: LIMITO, MDSX, NROC, ODPD, FILE, CE/RC-2 (4/W)

93 3246323 ASR PAGE 001 IN 3246323
TOR: 202151Z JUL 93 LANR 24682

SECRET 202148Z JUL 93 STAFF

CITE NR/LOS ANGELES 24682

TO: NROC INFO DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMIT DC/NRER INFO CE/RC

SLUGS: WNINTEL MXLETTER GTOPPOSITE VZOPTIC

SUBJECT: YEVGENY RUNGE - NAME APPEARS IN BOOK

REF: NONE

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUIRED: FYI.

2. ON 16 JULY, SUBJECT WAS MET IN COSTA MESA BY IC FORTAW (IN PNINFINITE ALIAS D.B.D.) TO PROVIDE SUBJ WITH INFORMATION CONCERNING THE APPEARANCE OF HIS NAME IN THE RECENTLY PUBLISHED BOOK "THE MAN WHO KNEW TO MUCH", BY DICK RUSSELL (CARROLL GRAF PUBLISHERS/RICHARD GELLEN, 260 FIFTH AVE, NY, NY 10001, COPYRIGHT 1992). THE BOOK IS A "CONSPIRACY THEORY" INVESTIGATION INTO THE *<ASSASSINATION>OF PRESIDENT<JOHN>F.*<KENNEDY>THROUGH INSIGHTS PROVIDED BY THE ACTIVITIES OF RICHARD CASE NAGELL, ALLEGEDLY A CIA *(INTERALIA) "AGENT" AND ASSOCIATE OF<LEE HARVEY OSWALD,>*WHO CLAIMS *TO HAVE INFORMED THE US GOV'T OF THE PLAN TO<ASSASSINATE>THE PRESIDENT. SUBJ HAD BEEN MET ON 29 APR AT HIS REQUEST, AT WHICH TIME HE ASKED THE RCO TO DETERMINE WHY SUBJ'S NAME HAD APPEARED IN THE BOOK AND WHAT SIGNIFICANCE IT MIGHT HAVE.

3. RCO OBTAINED A COPY OF THE BOOK AND AFTER REVIEWING IT, PROVIDED SUBJ THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION ON 16 JUL. REQUEST HQS COMMENTS ONLY IF IT IS BELIEVED NECESSARY.

4. THE NAME APPEARS ONCE IN THE BOOK, SPECIFICALLY, IN CHAPTER 29 "NAGELL'S DISAPPEARANCE BEHIND THE IRON CURTAIN: 1968-70," ON PAGE 657, IN THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH:

NAGELL WAS ALSO QUESTIONED IN THE USSR ABOUT A KGB LT COL, YEVGENY RUNGE, WHO HAD SOUGHT ASYLUM FROM THE CIA IN WEST BERLIN IN THE EARLY FALL OF 1967. RUNGE'S DEFECTION WAS SAID TO HAVE EXPOSED THE WIDESPREAD USES OF "ILLEGAL" AGENTS, UNATTACHED TO ANY EMBASSY, BY SOVIET INTELLIGENCE (RUNGE HIMSELF HAD POSED AS A TRAVELING JUKEBOX SALESMAN). (24)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 93-3246323                                                                                    PAGE: 2

SECRET

SENSIND:

FOOTNOTE 24, CHAPTER 29 STATES: NAGELL MENTIONED RUNGE, BRIEFLY AND CRYPTICALLY, IN ONE OF HIS LETTERS TO (ARTHUR) GREENSTEIN. FOR BACKGROUND ON THE RUNGE CASE, SEE DAVID BINDER, "BONN EXPERTS SAY DEFECTOR WAS ONE OF THE SOVIETS' ABLEST AGENTS," NEW YORK TIMES (27 OCT 67); "THE SPIES THAT WERE LEFT BEHIND," TIME (27 OCT 67) P.35; BENJAMIN WELLES, "DEFECTION OF A SOVIET SPY VIEWED IN US AS WINDFALL," THE NY TIMES (10 NOV 67) P.1.

5. CIRCUMSTANCES LEADING UP TO NAGELL'S INTERROGATION BY THE KGB IN MOSCOW: ON 10 JUN 68, WHILE ENROUTE TO WEST BERLIN THROUGH EAST GERMANY, COMMUNIST AUTHORITIES DETAINED AND THEN IMPRISONED NAGELL. HE SUBSEQUENTLY WAS SENT TO THE SOVIET UNION FOR FURTHER INTERROGATION, EVENTUALLY BEING RELEASED AT THE BERLIN BORDER TO AMERICAN AUTHORITIES ON 23 OCT 68.

6. GREENSTEIN, A PERSONAL FRIEND OF NAGELL'S, ORIGINALLY MET NAGELL IN MEXICO CITY IN 1962 WHILE GREENSTEIN WAS A STUDENT AT THE NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF MEXICO. GREENSTEIN, WHO EVENTUALLY OPENED AN ADULT BOOKSTORE IN WILLMINGTON, DELAWARE, WAS THE RECIPIENT OF MANY *LETTERS FROM NAGELL CONCERNING THE<KENNEDY ASSASSINATION>BOTH WHILE NAGELL WAS IMPRISONED AT LEAVENWORTH DURING THE PERIOD JUL 67 TO APR 68, AND SUBSEQUENTLY. IT APPEARS THAT AT NO TIME DURING THE COURSE OF GREENSTEIN'S ASSOCIATION WITH NAGELL, THAT GREENSTEIN WAS PERSONALLY INVOLVED IN ANY CLANDESTINE OR ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES. GREENSTEIN'S MENTIONING OF RUNGE'S NAME WAS SOLELY IN THE CONTEXT OF IT HAVING BEEN MENTIONED BY NAGELL AS ONE OF THE NAMES THAT THE SOVIETS BROUGHT UP IN THE COURSE OF NAGELL'S INTERROGATION. NAGELL HAD NO INFORMATION CONCERNING RUNGE.

7. FILE: 6LG-006-200 (FPF/RMB). DECL OADR DRV DEF 2-82.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)