# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE ONLT
CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

## ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Opronat)

CI Suspect

FROM:

P Kapusta

EXTENSION NO.

DATE

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICER'S INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment)

1.  c/SR/CI/I

RECEIVED FORWARDED

If your time permits, this is the second of the two cases I discussed with you (spotted through ALEAPLORE program).

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8.  P Kapusta

I would be interested in your views as to his possible IS involvement (and whether I may be all wet in feeling he is Soviet dispatched).

Do you see an Illegal Support aspects to this case?

9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FORM

3-62 610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

ER/O/AC - 64 - 202
22 October 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Irving AMRON

1. Subject responded to the AEEXPLOR3 ad for a position as a Russian language linguist. As was requested of him, he provided the Forms 444, 89, autobiography, and photograph.

2. he undersigned established contact with Subject by phone on 2 September and arrangements were rade to interview him on the following day. He vas interviewed in the Undersigned's Philadelphia hotel room on 3 September 1964. The undersigned used the Paul Peters alias and DOD cover.

3. The following was obtained from AMRON during the interview:

a. Subject, of Jewish descent, was born in 1917 in the USA. Subject's father, whose original name had been

Philip AMROMIM

came to the USA in 1905/06 at the age of approximately 15. Philip AMROMIM's parents stemmed from the CONEL area. At the tine of his emigration to the USA, he was accompanied by his rother (his father died sometime prior thereto), and by the following brothers and sisters: Lewis, Willy, Abe (who has since died), Moris, Minnie (now married to LAIKEN), Pearl, and Max. All of Subject's father's brothers except for Max, are butchers by occupation, including Subject's father. Max graduated from CCHY and became a structural engineer; he has an office on 43rd Street and his firm is called the Amron Associates.

b. Subject's mother, also of Jewish descent, came to the USA in 1911 (or 1913). Her older sister, Fannie, is married to (fnu) COHEN who is presently retired and living in Florida. Her sister, Ruth, married Max AMRON. Her brother, Hyman HORLIK, who arrived in the USA only in 1922, owns a liquor store in Bayoene, New Jersey. Subject's mother has another sister (nu) who is presently living in Florida. Subject's mother has one brother who is still living in the USSR.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

-2-

c. At the time of Subject's birth, Subject's father was employed in the Brooklyn shipyards. However, he changed jobs frequently and was subsequently employed on a farm near New Brunswick, then in a shoe factory as a cutter, then as a butcher, and finally became active in a Jewish cooperative organization. As Subject's father became convinced that the future of the Jews was in Russia under Soviet Communism, in 1931 Subject's family left the USA for the USSR for Birobidzhan where Subject's father worked as an agronomist (he had sometime prior thereto graduated from the National Farm School in Bucks County, Pennsylvania).

d. According to Subject, his family returned to the USA in 1933; the motivating reason therefor was the ill health--actually *ely sme headaches--cr cumject's brote*, Eugene. Subject alleges that, because they had retained their US citizenship, they experienced no problems either in leaving the USSR or in obtaining permission to return to the USA. Moreover, Subject's father allegedly did not like life in the USSR; however, Subjects mother and sister insisted that they return to the USSR after only a brief stay in the USA.

e. As a result, later in 1933 the entire AMRON family once again returned to the USSR. Again, Subjec. states that they had no problems in obtaining authorization from the Soviet government for this trip to the USSR. on their return to the 165R, they established themselves in Moscow where one Noah LONDON, a friend of the family and a construction engineer, took Subject's father "into his employ". Subject's father worked in this capacity, in the construction industry, from 1933 to 1936. Sometime after the 1936 purges begen, Subject's father worked for Komsomolsk, a Moscow "panel board construction" outfit. In 1936 Subject's father also worked for the Paris Commune as a shoemaker. Subject's mother worked during this entire period as chief of a dining establishment in the school of foreign languages in Moscow.

f. Subject began his elementary education at the Dewitt Cliaton School in the USA where he studied until 1931; he then studied in the Soviet secondary school in Khabarovsk, Birobidzhan, until 1933. In 1933 he again returned for one semester to the Dewitt Clinton School. Later in 1933 and 1934 he attended the Anglo-American School in Moscow where be completed his 8th grade of school. He then continued his studies from 1933 to 1936 in Public School #327 in the 24th Bauman Rayon. In 1936 he entered the Moscow Avtodorozhniy Institut where he studied on the civil engineering faculty, to be a highway engineer. He graduated in 1941 at which time he was sent to assist

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-3-

in the construction of an airdrome in Minsk, latfer to the Polish station of Janow.

g. In 1937 Subject's mother was dismissed from her position and both she and Subject's father began to feel the pressure of the purges. Subject's father, allegedly by appealing to the then President KALININ, succeeded in again acquiring exit visas for them to the USA. Subject, who admits that he had become a "good Communist" ty then had gotton *thoroughly steeped* in the Communist philosophy, elected to remain behind in the USSR. An important consideration, he states, vas his desire to complete his education which he vas certain he would not be able to do in the USA for economic ressons.

h. According to Subject, his father never lost his American citizenship. Subject's mother, however, in 1936 applied for an obtained Soviet citizenship. necordingst, ha actually acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" although he never applied for this in person; he alleges that although he was 18 years of age abe tine, he was "granted" Soviet citizenship by virtue of his Domer's application for her om citizenshu.

i. Subject remained in Moscow price to World War II. In April 1940 he married

Nina MOISEYIVA
a bookkeeper by profession,

who was the step-daughter of the well-known Major SEOGOLEV of the "Soviet Proleteriat Regiment". A son was born to them in June 1941. Although at this time Subject was assigned to the construction of aerodromes to support front line troops, he succeeded in pulling strings and in arranging a "DY trip" to Moscow, ostensibly to visit the Geodetic Institute. Earcute back from Moscow to the front lines, Subject's train got bombed in Brest Litovsk on 22 June 1941 and as a result he was returned to Moscow on the same train via Baranovichi. According to Subject, he was then assigned to the Moscow Military District, to the Ctdel Aerodrommoi Sluzhby, where he was placed in charge of a brigade of engineers, technicians and laborers who were engaged in building dummy air sites for camouflage purposes.

j. In August 1941 Subject states that he was permitted to return to school in order to receive his diploma which was granted him in October 1941. He was then assigned to the 22nd Voyenno-Dorozhaiy Otryad which was formed in Dmitrov but which was then assigned to Suzdal'. Subject states that he was not inducted into the Soviet military service allegedly because "engineers were needed" and

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

because, as a member of the MD, this was considered as equivalent to military service. Nonetheless, in response to my query, Subject admitted that this was unusual as his activities were a kind which vere performed by old voren particularly since during this period, from October 1941 to September 1942, all able-bodied Soviet males were drafted into the Soviet army. During this period Subject lived in comparative ease, being assigned to Suzdal and Klin, and other towns. According to Subject, be wore an M.D uniform but vore no insignia. He admitted that "favored treatment" was bestowed upon him and his family when the assisted him in evacuating his first wife and son from Moscow in August 1941 to beyond the Urals. (His son by his first wife reporteily died on 11 October 1943 of diabetes.)

k. In September 1942, Subject received an appcintzent to the Moscow 2nd Military Infantry Institute from which he graduated in June 193n which he tale of Jr Line Soviet Infantry. In response to my query, Subject again admitted that this appointment was highly unusual as his background did not lend itself to this, as appointzents were made out of the various military branches, and as this implied that, as a foreigner (American), he was fully and completel trusted by the Soviet punitive organs who had cleared him both for this training and the institute and for promotion to officer status in the Soviet Army.

1. Initially he was sent to Alater on the Volga, then to Orel where he was assigned to the front lines in August 1943. He was given a platoon of infantry troops in the 415th Infantry Division of the Soviet Central Front. However, in October 1943 he was wounded; he vas hit in the left forehead by e German bullet. Ee was operated on in a field hospital and then transferred to a Moscow hospital after he had recovered sufficiently. He was reclassified after his recovery and found suitable to continue in military service with the limitation that he should not serve on the front lines (goden vtoroi stepeni).

m. Because the wound failed to heal completely (be has a very obvious scar, with approximately a 1" depression, on his forehead), he "asked" to be assigned to a warmer clizate. The Soviet authorities, he states, complied and in January 1944 dispatched him to Tbilisi where he was placed in a special officer's camp; he ves hospitalized again, bad osteomyelitis complications, and ultimately discharged from the Soviet military forces. Eowever, Subject provided several contradictory stories as to the date of discharge which at various times be indicated occurred in May 1944, then in July 194, and even in August 1944. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story bothered hir as it vas obvious to the undersigned that Subject had somewhere become confused in this aspect of his background.)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

-5-

n. Upon his discharge, he was returned to the Moscow area where he was placed in a rest home (although Subject admitted that there really existed no need for this as he had recovered already prior to his discharge). In continuing his narration, Subject indicated that the rest of his story "sounds very strange and unbelievable" but then averred that it was true. He states that, strange as it appears and despite the shortage of Soviet men at the time (1944) he could not "find" himself a job. He went to the MVD which did offer him a job in Veliki Luki on the highways with the ScyuzDorog-Proyekt; however, he was not given the job by the officials responsible for this. As a result, he appealed directly to the Minister of the MVD who "tried to intercede" in Subject's behalf. Allegedly after he was given a full physical examination, he was told that he could not be assigned to the highway units for reasons which were not spelled out to Subject.

o. Subject then "sought out" work with the Nauchniy Sovet with no luck. He ultimately obtained a job with the Moscow Soviet in the Moscow Soviet Senior Library (sic). In November 1944, at a salary of 900 rubles, Subject began working in the field of "information on municipal works-highway construction, architecture, sanitation, etc." His immediate supervisor was (fnu) LIEEEDEV, the head of information department of the Pydro-Energy Project. Subject admitted, in reply to the undersigned's query, that his work was "unusual" for several reasons. First, he was paid a salary which was unusually high and out of line with his qualifications. Secondly, though paid a salary for a full-time job and position, he actually worked on a part-time basis and was able to come and go almost as he wished. His work also included working on abstracts and translations from English to Russian, primarily in the field of dams, dam construction, and hydraulics.

p. In June 1949 Subject states that he was dismissed from the foregoing position after he was given the explanation that the flow of literature from the USA, which Subject was translating, had decreased. In actual fact, Subject states, he was being "purged" because he was a Jew. He then found a job as a laboratory assistant in a concrete plant where he worked from July 1949 to 23 February 1950. Because he did not like that job, Subject states he wrote to Stalin personally as a result of which, within less than 4 weeks, he was offered 4-5 different jobs. The positions were offered to him by the Moscow Committee of the CP to whom "Stalin had forwarded the letter". In reply to my query, Subject admitted that he was not concerned that, by writing to Stalin, he would come to the attention of the Soviet punitive organs, MVD/MGB, which would undertake to investigate his case. Accordingly, on 1 April 1950 Subject was given a job as an

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

-6-

engineer with the Bezman District Road Department where he worked until February 1955.

q. After he lost his job in 1949 with the Moscow Sovet, he states that his relations with his wife went from bad to worse and ultimately cultirated first in a separation and latter in a divorce in 1950. In the meantime, he was already living with

Eugenia VOLSOVA

an empolyee and a teacher of forsenic medicine of the Moscow Medical Institute where she vas studying for her PhD and where she was working as a pathologist. Subject married her either in 1950 or 1951. Hoverer, within less than one month of their carriage, Subject divorced her as he found out that she vas a "tad person" and because he "had falien blindly in love" with her. (NOTE: This aspect of Subject's story disturbed him very much. He vas wasure of himself, wes vegue on dates, details, specifics, cames, etc. It was again obvious that Subject was less than frank and open about this aspect of his beckground. His narratica did not sound convincing to Subject hinsche when he began talking about "falling blindly in Love", etc.) In 1952 he began living with another man,

Rose MINKINA,

whom he married only in late 1954 when their son was already vell on the way. MINKINA's parents and family were very strongly opposed to the marriage because the parents held responsible party positions and because MINKINA's brother held a sensitive position with the Soviet electronics and aviation industries. A son vas born to Subject and MINKIKA on 5 April 1955.

r. In ca 1954 (dates vague) Subject entered the Institute of Marxism-Leninism and continued his studies for three or more years. Though he registered for the evening sessions, he devoted a good portion of his days to study. As a result, Subject again admitted to the undersigned that he actually was in a unique position of being able to do alrost as he "wished and desired" although ostensibly be was a full-time employee of the Bauman District Road Department. While a student at the Institute of Marxist-Leninism, Subject and his wife began submitting applications for a visa to visit Subject's parents in the USA. In actual fact, Subject states, his real purpose in applying for the visa vas to "defect" upon his arrival in the USA. In February 1955 Subject states that be was fired" from his job with the Bauman District because of "political unreliability". Hovever, Subject adaitted to the undersigned that the real reason for dismissal

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SEGTET

-7-

must have been otherwise as, had he actually been dismissed for "political unreliability", he would not have been able to continue his studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism.

5. Because Subject had communicated to his father, using "hidden phrases" in their letters to each other, about his wish to leave the USER, Subject's father arrived in the USSR in 1957 in order, Subject states, "to establish at first hand for hizsel" whether Subject really wished to "defect to the USA". Subject's father remained in the USSR for a total of 10 days. As a result of his father's visit, Subject changed his tactics and began to submit applications for "imigration" to the USA. As earlier, these to rajected; ect states
   continued resubmitting then several times each year.

t. After he left the Bauman District place of employment in February 1955, Subject found work as a "free lance translator for the Moscow Torgovaya Palata. He earned ca 100 rubles per south translating English language caterial related to the iron and steel plant which was being designed by the USSR for erection in India. In January 1956 Subject fond work as chief of the translations bureau of the Nauchno-Issledovcelriv Institut Ministerstva Mashiro-Stroyeniya; his functions consisted primarily of supervising the translation of English language sanruals on technical equitment. Again, Subject admitted that his work was "umsual" as, in actual fact, he spent 1-2 days at work, spent the rest of his time at home, and devoted most of his time and energy to the studies at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Sis salary continued at 1100 rubles per month.

In August 1958 his work came to an end. Generally he provided a contardictory account in this respect. Initially he stated that the position had been eliminated but then changed this story to state that he resigned in August 1958 as he vould have had to begla devoting his full tize to the work. In any case, his resignation generally coincided with his completion of studies at the Institute of Farrisn-Leninism. Thereafter, and until his inmigration to the USA in 1962, Sabject held no full tire job. Nonetheless, he states that he succeeded in earning no less than about 1100 rubles per mouth by working as a free lance translator for the Torgovaya Palata of Moscov. Ee turned over to the undersigned a sample of his translation efforts-see the attached bocs. In response to. my query, Subject admitted that his work again vas of such a nature that he was a free agent, came and went as he pleased, and generally vas responsible to no one. Apparently in order to

SEGTET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

-8-

forestall any further discussions in this regard, Surject then stated that "if you are thinking that I could have worked for the KGB et this time, then you are right because I had the tire to do anything including engaging in intelligence activities". However, Subject then proceeded to deny that he had then or at any time, tad any relationship with the KGB (or its predecessor organizations).

V. In July 1962 Subject's mother and father came to Moscow, this specifically for the purpose of getting Subject to return to the USA. They stayed in Moscow.

other wote letters to KEPISECEV, to Nina FERMERCEVA, to ADZHUBEI, to the Supreme Soviet, to the KB, and to other Soviet establish-ments in order to get Subject and his son permission for enderation to the USA. (Subject's wife, MOTIVA, had died in 1961.) In August 1962, vile vacationing in Sochi Subject ves sought out by the local Inturist office and epprised by the local militia office that, "in view of your father's strong appeals", the USSR had grented Subject and his son permission to leave the USSR. Upon his return to Moscow, Subject proceeded to the American Embassy where he vas advised that he had not been granted an exit visa by the Soviets. As a result, Subject applied for rigretion to the USA twice, once in the capacity of a Soviet citizen using his Soviet passport, and the second time in the capacity of an "American citizen".

V. In September 1962 the application to travel to the USA as an "izmigrant" was approved for him and his son. Therefore, vithout waiting to receive approval to travel ander his claix of being an "American citizen", Subject left the USSR and entered the USA on his Soviet passport together with his soa on 24 September 1962 via Idlewild. Upon his arrival in the SA, Subject imediately undertook action to have his "American citizenship" restored. This was initially denied as he had admitted that he had voted in the Soviet national elections. However, he then retained an attorney who appealed the case; the original decision ves then reversed and both Subject and his son had their S citizenship restored to then in the summer of 1963, the reversal was based ca Subject's clain that be bad had no choice and vas, therefore, compelled to vote in the USSR national elections.

X. Upon his arrival in the SA, Subject immediately applied for a position with the in, however, he was rejected as he was "state-less" at the time. He then accepted a position with Stelling, Lori-Wood, and sa Suetendals, 36th Street, working on site-planning. Eis supervisor, one Frank McGovan, then recommended Subject to the

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

Blaurelt engineering firm for whom he worked from January 1963 through July 1964. In 1964 Subject found work with Farold J. SALDEN, 60 Broad Street, Red Bank, New Jersey, as an engineer working on the planning and designing of sub-divisions, grading, construction developments, etc. Ris immediate superviser is the township engineer of Marlboro Township, New Jersey. Eis present salary is $100.00 per month.

y. In April 1963 Subject married

Bella HINCBERG nee MILSTEIN

a Polish Jew who had come to the USA from Poland in 1949. She has come by her previous marriage(s). Subject and his son now live in the home of his present wife.

4. Comments and Assessment:

a. Subject speaks native English and passes for a middle class American. Eis Russian is likewise native.

b. According to Subject, his objective in life now is to work for the US Government. Ee states that he has submitted Forms 57 to a number of the US Government agencies (he did not elaborate). In applying for the position under AER, Subject asked for $10,000.00 per annuum which is his asking price for a position with the US Government.

c. According to Subject, his present position is excellent with great potential for going into partnership as soon as he becomes a licensed engineer. However, he states that he is not interested in making money (despite his request for a $10,000.00 salary) but in "fighting Communism" as an employee of the US Government.

d. Subject admitted that he was a firm and strong believer of Communism which, incidentally, was the reason why he remained behind in the USSR when his parents returned to the USA in 1937. Ee states that he continued to be a firm believer of Communism until approximately 1958/59 when he became "disenchanted with Communism". Subject denies that he was a member of the Komsomol or that he had to join the Communist Party, this despite the fact that he became an officer of the Soviet Army and despite the fact that he was accepted to study at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. Despite his alleged "disenchantment" with Communism, Subject spoke in flattering terms about life in the USSR, about the "democracy", about equal opportunities, about the excellent "educational system", et cetera. Subject admitted that

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

-10-

he had led almost a "charming existence" in the USSR and that neither life in the USSR nor the Soviet authorities mistreated him.

e. According to Subject, he was never arrested in the Soviet Union.

f. In reply to my query, Subject indicated that in 1958 the KGB tried to co-opt him into reporting a fellow student at the Institute of Marxism-Leninism. However, Subject states that he rejectd the pitch. In reply to various queries which were posed to him about the fellow-student (name allegedly now forgotton), Subject states that he did render an unfavorable report on the person. Despite this, the particular Soviet was ultimately assigned abroad as an interpreter. Subject later heard that the Soviet worked and traveled both Japan and Italy.

g. In reply to a general query about life in the USSR, Subject indicated that life in the USSR has made him into "an accomplished prevaricator".

h. Subject was less than fluent in relating the story of his life to the undersigned. He made mistakes frequently, he contradicted himself, he altered dates to accommodate other aspects of his activities to correspond with what he had mentioned earlier, etc. Also, Subject repeatedly tried to digress from relating his story into presenting his views of life; it was a chore to keep him on substantive matters relating to his own background.

i. Subject's brother, Eugene, is now employed as an engineer of the Freehall Township, New Jersey. Additionally, he has a private office in Rockland, New Jersey, called the Civil Engineer Associates.

j. Subject's account of how he acquired Soviet citizenship--see above--is a very weak item in Subject's story. He will have us believe that he got Soviet citizenship "by default" as a result of his mother's application for Soviet citizenship for herself. He himself admitted to the undersigned that this is illogical as his brother, Eugene, whose status was no different from Subject's, never acquired Soviet citizenship "by default" though Subject did allegedly without any action whatever on his own part. Moreover, Subject admitted that he was legally of age (18) by this time and no longer a dependent as a result of which he would have had to apply for a Soviet passport and for Soviet citizenship of his own free volition rather than through his mother.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# SECRET

-11-

k. Subject is aware that the story of his *"imigration"* to the USA is also weak. He tried to explain this away by stating that he *"got cut by mistake"*, that he was permitted to go *"to hide the Soviet shame surrounding the Cuban crisis"*, that *"someone had committed an error"*, etc. He admitted that there exists no other explanation as to why the Soviet government would have permitted him to leave the USSR as, in the eyes of the Soviet government, he was a full fledged and responsible Soviet citizen who had no genuine or legitimate claim to American citizenship. As a result, Subject is unusually sensitive to this topic.

5. CONCLUSION:

a. In the opinion of the undersigned, Subject should not be considered for either ABSCREEN or ABEXPLORE despite the fact both his English and Russian are native.

b. On the basis of the interview, the undersigned feels that, Subject is less than frank and that he is prevaricating. Moreover, there exist innumerable items in Subject's tale which are indicative both that he worked as a recruited agent of the KGB (and its predecessor organizations) in the USSR and that he left the USSR only through and with the intercession of the KGB.

6. It should be underscored that because of the unique and sensitive cover used by the undersigned, no attempt was made to resolve the various contradictions, to challenge Subject on any of his statements, or to pursue certain points of their logical conclusion. The foregoing was obtained in the form of an interview and no real attempt could be made, given the cover, to delve more deeply into the suspicious aspects of Subject's background.

![signature of PETER P. KAPUSTA]

PETER P. KAPUSTA
Chief, SR/O/AC

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable write "NA". Write "Unknown" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space an end of form in extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

## SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (Last, First, Middle) A. ARCHER
2. AGE 46
3. SEX

X MALE
FEMALE

4. HEIGHT 6'00"
5. WEIGHT 195#
6. COLOR OF EYES blue
7. COLOR OF HAIR brown
8. TYPE COMPLEXION light
9. TYPE BUILD heavy

10. SCARS (Type and Location) Deep scar (1"x2") on left part of forehead

11. OTHER DISTINGUISHING PHYSICAL FEATURES None

12. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country) 260 Marshall Court, Long Branch, New Jersey
13. PERMANENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State and Country) 260 Marshall Court, Long branch, New Jersey. Tel:201-222-5592

14. CURRENT PHONE NO. 201-222-3592
15. OFFICE PHONE NO. & EXT. LE2-0700
16. LEGAL RESIDENCE (State, Territory or Country) New Jersey

17. NICKNAMES None
18. OTHER NAMES YOU HAVE USED None

19. INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including Length of Time) UNDER WHICH YOU HAVE EVER USED THESE NAMES. NA

20. IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS (Decree and by What Authority). NA

## SECTION II POSITION DATA

1. INDICATE THE TYPE OF WORK OR POSITION FOR WHICH YOU ARE APPLYING

Russian language linguist

2. INDICATE THE LOWEST ANNUAL ENTRANCE SALARY YOU WILL ACCEPT (You will not be considered for any position with a lower entrance salary). $10,000 annually
3. DATE AVAILABLE FOR EMPLOYMENT 2 weeks after

4. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO TRAVEL

X OCCASIONALLY
FREQUENTLY
CONSTANTLY
OTHER:

5. INDICATE YOUR WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT ASSIGNMENT IN THE FOLLOWING LOCATIONS (Check as many as apply):
   WASHINTON, D.C.
   X ANYWHERE IN U.S.
   OUTSIDE CONTINENTAL U.S.
   CERTAIN LOCATIONS ONLY (Specify):

6. INDICATE WHAT RESERVATIONS YOU WOULD PLACE ON ASSIGNMENTS OUTSIDE THE WASHINGTO

Possibility of schooling for children


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

# SECTION III CITIZENSHIP

1. CATE OF BIRTH 2. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Dec.4, 1917 Brooklyn, New York

4. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIPED BY

BIRTH MARRIAGE OTHER (Specify):

7. COURT ISSUING NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE

NA

3. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U. S. A.

5. CATE NATURAL- 6. NATURALIZATION CERTIFICATE NO.
   IZED
   NA
   NA

8. ISSUED AT (City, State, Country)
   NA

9. HAVE YOU HELD PREVIOUS NATIONALITY 10. IF YES, GIVE NAME OF COUNTRY

YES NO

NA

11. GIVE PARTICULARS CONCERNING PREVIOUS NATIONALITY. While I was living in Moscow, the Russian government considered me as a Russian citizen, even though I had never handed in an application for Soviet citizenship. Due to this, and because I was in a rush to leave the country, I arrived xxx on a Soviet foreign passport. In the U. S. Embassy in Moscow I filled in simultaneously two applications for entry into the U. S. A. : one as an immigrant and the other as an American citizen. I received a Nonquota K-2(1) visa dated Sptember 10, 1952. After arrival the Board of Appeals of the Dept. of State reinstated my native-born citizenship.

12. HAVE YOU TAKEN STEPS TO CHANGE 13. GIVE PARTICULARS
    PRESENT CITIZENSHIP
    YES
    NO

14. IF YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR U.S. CITIZENSHIP, WHAT IS PRESENT STATUS OF YOUR APPLICATION (First Papers, Etc.)?

NA

15. DATE OF ARRIVAL IN U.S. 16. PORT OF ENTRY 17. PRESENT CITIZENSHIP OF WHAT COUNTRY
    Sept. 26, 1952 N. Y. U. S. S. R.

18. LAST U.S. VISA (No., Type, Place of Issue) 19. DATE VISA ISSUED
    K-2(1), Moscow, U. S. S. R. Sept. 10, 1952

# SECTION IV EDUCATION

1. CHECK (X) HIGHEST LEVEL OF EDUCATION ATTAINED

LESS THAN HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE OVER TWO YEARS OF COLLEGE - NO DEGREE
HIGH SCHOOL GRADUATE X BACHELOR'S DEGREE
TRADE BUSINESS OR COMMERCIAL SCHOOL GRADUATE GRADUATE STUDY LEADING TO HIGHER DEGREE
TWO YEARS COLLEGE OR LESS DOCTOR'S DEGREE

2. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL

1. NAME OF ELEMENTARY SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
   P. S. 39 Bronx, N. Y.
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE
   1928 to 1932 YES NO

3. HIGH SCHOOL

1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
   No. 327 Moscow, U. S. S. R.
3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE
   1934 to 1936 YES NO

1. NAME OF HIGH SCHOOL 2. ADDRESS (City, State, Country)
   NA NA

3. DATES ATTENDED (From-and-To) 4. GRADUATE
   NA YES NO

4. COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY STUDY

| NAME AND LOCATION OF COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY | SUBJECT  | DATES ATTENDED | DEGREE REC'D | CATE REC'D | SEM. QTR. HOURS (Specify) |
| ------------------------------------------ | -------- | -------------- | ------------ | ---------- | ------------------------- |
| Moscow Automobile & Highway Institute      | MAJOR CB | FROM 1936      | TO 1941      | BS         | 1941                      |
| Moscow, U. S. S. R.                        | MINOR    |                |              |            |                           |

SECTION IV CONTINUED TO PAGE 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECTION IV CONTINUED FROM PAGE 2

5. IF A GRADUATE DEGREE HAS BEEN NOTED IN ITEM 4 WHICH REQUIRED SUBMISSION OF A WRITTEN THESIS, INDICATE THE TITLE OF THE THESIS AND BRIEFLY DESCRIBE ITS CONTENT.

NA

6. TRADE, COMMERCIAL AND SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS

| NAME & ADDRESS OF SCHOOL               | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO   | MONTHS |
| -------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | ---- | ------ |
| Evening University of Marxism-Leninism | Political Sciences      | 1952 | 1954 |        |
| Moscow, U. S. S. R.                    |                         |      |      |        |

7. MILITARY TRAINING (FULL TIME DUTY IN SPECIALIZED SCHOOLS SUCH AS ORDNANCE, INTELLIGENCE, COMMUNICATIONS, ETC.)

| NAME AND ADDRESS OF SCHOOL | STUDY OR SPECIALIZATION | FROM | TO   | MONTHS |
| -------------------------- | ----------------------- | ---- | ---- | ------ |
| 2nd Moscow infantry School | infantry officer        | 1942 | 1943 | 10     |
| Moscow, U. S. S. R.        |                         |      |      |        |

8. OTHER EDUCATIONAL TRAINING NOT INDICATED ABOVE.

NA

SECTION V

FOREIGN LANGUAGE ABILITIES

1. LANGUAGE

|                                                                                        |                                  |                              | HOW ACQUIRED                                                |                                                                                                |          |     |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- | ---------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | --- |
| List below each language in which you possess any degree of competence. Indicate your  | **COMPETENCE - IN ORDER LISTED** |                              |                                                             |                                                                                                |          |     |
| proficiency to Read, Write or Speak by placing a check (X) in the appropriate box(es). | R-Read, W-Write, S-Speak         |                              |                                                             |                                                                                                |          |     |
|                                                                                        | EQUIVALENT TO NATIVE FLUENCY     | FLUENT BUT OBVIOUSLY FOREIGN | ADEQUATE FOR RESEARCH ADEQUATE FOR TRAVEL LIMITED KNOWLEDGE | NATIVE OF COUNTRY PROLONGED RESIDENCE CONTACT (with parents, etc.) ACADEMIC STUDY (all levels) |          |     |
| Russian                                                                                | R  W  S: X X X                   | R  W  S:                     | R  W  S:                                                    | R  W  S:                                                                                       | R  W  S: | X   |


2. IF YOU HAVE CHECKED "ACADEMIC STUDY" UNDER "HOW ACQUIRED", INDICATE LENGTH AND INTENSIVENESS OF STUDY.

NA

3. IF YOU HAVE INDICATED FLUENCY FOR A LANGUAGE HAVING SIGNIFICANT DIFFERENCES IN SPOKEN AND WRITTEN FORM, EXPLAIN YOUR COMPETENCE THEREIN.

NA

4. DESCRIBE YOUR ABILITY TO DO SPECIALIZED LANGUAGE WORK INVOLVING VOCABULARIES AND TERMINOLOGY IN THE SCIENTIFIC, ENGINEERING, TELECOMMUNICATIONS, MILITARY, AND OTHER SPECIALIZED FIELDS. I have deep knowledge in the field of information (technical) embracing CE, HE on the basis of twenty years of experience in Russia.

5. IF YOU HAVE NOTED A PROFICIENCY IN LANGUAGE. WOULD YOU BE WILLING TO USE THIS ABILITY IN ANY POSITION FOR WHICH YOU MIGHT BE SELECTED

YES


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# SECTION VI GEOGRAPHY: AREA KNOWLEDGE AND FOREIGN TRAVEL

1. LIST BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA (E.G. REGIONS OR COUNTRIES) THE AREAS TO WHICH YOU HAVE GAINED KNOWLEDGE AS A RESULT OF RESIDENCE, TRAVEL OR WORK ASSIGNMENT. INDICATE IF KNOWLEDGE WAS GAINED AS A RESULT OF RESIDENCE, TRAVEL STUDY ABROAD, WORK ASSIGNMENT, MILITARY DUTY OR OTHER MEANS (SPECIFY). LIST ALL REGIONS, PROVINCES, POLITICAL PARTS, ETC.

| NAME OF REGION OR COUNTRY    |     |     |     |     |
| ---------------------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TYPE OF KNOWLEDGE            |     |     |     |     |
| DATES OF RESIDENCE OR TRAVEL |     |     |     |     |
| DATES AND PLACE OF STUDY     |     |     |     |     |
| RESIDENCE                    |     |     |     |     |
| TRAVEL STUDY                 |     |     |     |     |
| WORK ASSIGNMENT              |     |     |     |     |
| Moscow, U.S.S.R.             |     |     |     |     |
| acquainted with              |     |     |     |     |
| 1935 to 1942                 |     |     |     |     |
|                              |     |     |     |     |
| X                            |     |     |     |     |
|                              |     |     |     |     |
| town and environs            |     |     |     |     |
| as per arent resident        |     |     |     |     |
|                              |     |     |     |     |

2. INDICATE THE PURPOSE OF VISIT, RESIDENCE, OR TRAVEL IN EACH OF THE REGIONS OR COUNTRIES LISTED ABOVE. Arrived in U.S.S.R. together with parents during crisis and remained to graduate college in 1937. Impossible to leave during WW II and only after seven years of repeated applications was allowed to leave, in 1952.
3. UNITED STATES PASSPORT NUMBER AND EXPIRATION DATE IF ISSUED.

NA

# SECTION VII TYPING AND STENOGRAPHIC SKILLS

1. TYPING

| WORDS PER MINUTE |     |     |     |
| ---------------- | --- | --- | --- |
| 10-15            |     |     |     |
| GREGG SHORTHAND  |     |     |     |
| SPEEDWRITING     |     |     |     |
| STENOTYPE        |     |     |     |
| OTHER 'Specify': |     |     |     |

2. INDICATE OTHER BUSINESS MACHINES ON WHICH YOU HAVE HAD OPERATING EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING 'Comptometer,
   Micrograph, Card Punch, etc.'
   calculators

# SECTION VIII SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS

1. LIST ALL HOBBIES AND SPORTS IN WHICH YOU ARE ACTIVE OR HAVE ACTIVELY PARTICIPATED. INDICATE YOUR PROFICIENCY IN EACH:

chess - average proficiency.

swimming - for pleasure

2. INDICATE ANY SPECIAL QUALIFICATIONS RESULTING FROM EXPERIENCE OR TRAINING WHICH MIGHT FIT YOU FOR A PARTICULAR POSITION OR TYPE OF WORK. On the basis of my twenty years of experience I could manage, edit and translate information in the field of CA and NZ, published in Russian, or vice versa.

3. EXCLUDING BUSINESS EQUIPMENT OR MACHINES WHICH YOU MAY HAVE LISTED IN ITEM 2, SECTION VII. LIST ANY SPECIAL SKILLS YOU POSSESS RELATING TO OTHER EQUIPMENT AND MACHINES SUCH AS OPERATION OF SHORTWAVE RADIO (Indicate Code speed, sending and receiving.) OFFSET PRESS, TURRET LATHE, SCIENTIFIC AND PROFESSIONAL DEVICES.

NA

SECTION VIII CONTINUED TO PAGE 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

SECTION VIHI CONTINUED FROM PAGE 4

4. ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A LICENSED OR CERTIFIED MEVSED OF ANY TRADE OR PROFESSION, SUCH AS PILOT,
   ELECTRICIAN, PADIO OPERATOR, TEACHER, LASTER, CPA, MEDICAL TECHNICIAN, ETC

YES   NO

5. IF YOU HAVE ANSUFRED YES TO ABOVE. INDICATE KIND OF LICENSE AND STATE ISSLING LICENSE (Provide License Registry Number, if kromi.

NA

6. FIRST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)

NA

7. LATEST LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE (Year of Issue)

NA

8. LIST ANY SIGNIFICANT PUBLISHED MATERIALS OF BHICH YOU ARE THE AUT JA (DO NOT submit copies undens seated. INDICATE
   THE TITLE,

Translated "Precast Concrete in the Soviet Union", published by Foreign Languages Publishing House in 1953 (technical).

9. INDICATE ANY DEVICES WHICH YOU HAVE INVENTED AND STATE WHETHER OR NOT THEY ARE PATENTED.

NA

10. LIST PUBLIC SPEAKING AND PUBLIC RELATIONS EXPERIENCE.

NA

11. LIST ANY PROFESSIONAL, ACADEMIC OR HONORARY ASSOCIATIONS OF SOCIETIES IN WHICH YOU ARE NOW DR BERE FORMERLY
    A MEMBER. LIST ACADEMIC HONORS YOU HAVE RECEIVED.

None

SECTION IX EMPLOYMENT HISTORY

NOTE: (LIST LAST POSITION FIRST.) Indicate chronological history of employment for past 15 years. Account for all periods
including casual employment and all periods of unemployment. Give address and state what you did during periods of
unemployment. List all civilian employment by a foreign Govemment, regardless of dates. In completing item 9. De-
scription of Duties consider your experience carefully and provide meaningful, objective statements.

|                                                                             |                                     |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| 1. INCLUSIVE CATES(From and To - E Mo, end Yr)                              | 2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY |
| January 1953 to present time                                                | Blauvelt Engineering Co.            |
| 3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)                              |                                     |
| 79 Madison Ave., NYC                                                        |                                     |
| 4. KIND OF BUSINESS                                                         | 5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR               |
| Consulting engineers                                                        | Francis Fuerst                      |
| 6. TITLE OF JOB                                                             | 7. SALARY OR EARNINGS               |
| CE                                                                          | $550 per month                      |
| 8. CLASS. GRADE(If Federal Service)                                         |                                     |
| NA                                                                          |                                     |
| 9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES                                                    |                                     |
| Highway design. Alignment, drainage, sewers, right-of-way, final estimates. |                                     |
| 10: REASONS FOR LEAVING                                                     |                                     |
| Improving possibilities of further advancement                              |                                     |

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECTION IX CONTINUED FROM PAGES

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)
   Nov., 1952 to Dec., 1962

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
   Steeling, Lord-Wed and Van Suetendale

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   35 E. 20 St.

4. KIND OF BUSINESS
   Site planning

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
   Frank McGowan

6. TITLE OF JOB
   Jun. CE

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
   $150 per week

8. CLASS GRADE (If Federal Service)
   NA

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
   Grading, site planning for high schools

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
    Improving possibilities of further advancement

---

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)
   1952 to Sept., 1962

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
   U.S.S.R. Chamber of Commerce

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
1. Kuibysheva 6, Moscow, U.S.S.R.

4. KIND OF BUSINESS
   Foreign trade

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
   Miss Postnova

6. TITLE OF JOB
   Free-lance translator and editor

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
   $333 per month

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
   Reports for International Congresses, trade publications, manuals, dam projects, road-building and construction machinery manuals, articles on building materials, metallurgy. (Russian to English)

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
    Repatriation

---

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)
   1956 to Sept., 1962

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
   Foreign Trade Publishing House

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   Moscow, U. S. S. R.

4. KIND OF BUSINESS
   Foreign trade

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
   Mr. Kedvedyev

6. TITLE OF JOB
   Free-lance translator and editor

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
   $300 per month

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES
   Trade publications, road-building and construction machinery manuals. (Russian to English)

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING
    Repatriation

---

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From and To - By Mo. and Yr.)
   Jan., 1956 to Aug., 1958

2. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY
   Scientific-Research Institute of Construction & Road-Building Machinery

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   Frunze Embankment, house No. unknown, Moscow, U.S.S.R..

4. KIND OF BUSINESS
   Machinery research and foreign trade

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR
   Ir. Ratner

6. TITLE OF JOB
   Senior engineer

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS
   $130 per month

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Federal Service)

SECTION IX CONTINUED TO PAGE 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

SECTION IX CONTINUED FROW PAGE 6

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Supervision of five translators. Head of tra slators Bureau. Kanagement, editing and translating from Russian to English of construction and road-building machinery manuals, trade publications.

10 REASONS FOR LEAVING

Completion of translations into English

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From B. Mo. and Yr)

Mar., 1950 to Feb.,1955

2 NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OF AGENCY

Bauman Boro Road Repair Dept.

3 ADDRESS (No. Street City Stame Castery)

Spartakovsky Ul. 9, Moscow, U. S. S. R.

4. KMC BUSINESS

Road & sewer maintenance

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Fr. Artamonov

6. TITLE OF JOD

Senior engineer

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

100 per month

8. CLASS. GRADE (If Pederel Service)

9. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Engineering supervision of repair jobs, surveying, designing of small streets and sewers, planning, contact with factories for paving jobs, estimates.

10. REASONS FOR LEAVING

Reduction of forces

1. INCLUSIVE DATES (From B. Mo and Yr)

July 1949 to Feb.1950

12. NAME OF EMPLOYING FIRM OR AGENCY

Highway construction Dept.

3 ADDRESS (No. Street. City. State, Country)

Warsaw Highway, house No. unknown, Koscow, J. S. S. R.

4. KIND OF BUSINESS

Manulactre of concrete

5. NAME OF SUPERVISOR

Do not remember

6. TITLE OF JOB

Laboratory assistant

7. SALARY OR EARNINGS

60 PERmonto

2. CLASS. GRADE II Faceral Service)

8. DESCRIPTION OF DUTIES

Laboratory testing of concrete and concrete components.

10 REASONS FOR LEAVING

Reduction of forces

E. IF PRIOR SERVICE BITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS NOTED ABOVE, INDICATE THE NUMBER OF YEARS CREDITABLE TOWARD U.S. CIVIL SERVICE RETIREMENT. IF KNOWN.

NA

8. MADE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED OR ASKED TO RESIGN FROM ANT POSITION

YES NO

9. HAVE YOU LEFT A POSITION UNDER CIRCUMSTANCES WHICH YOU DESIRE TO EXPLAIN

YES NO

IF YOUR ANSWER TO EITHER OR BOTH QUESTIONS IS "YES", GIVE DETAILS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# SECTION X

## MILITARY SERVICE

1. ARE YOU REGISTERED FOR THE DRAFT UNDER THE UNIVERSAL MILITARY TRAINING AND SERVICE ACT OF 1948? `X` NO

1. CURRENT DRAFT STATUS

YES 2. SELECTIVE SERVICE CLASSIF
NA
3. SELECTIVE SERVICE NO.
NA

4. IF DEFERRED, GIVE REASON
   NA
5. LOCAL DRAFT BOARD NO. OR DESIGNATION AND ADDRESS
   NA

2. MILITARY SERVICE RECORD

1. CURRENT AND OR PAST ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERSHIP

CHECK (X) AS APPROPRIATE
ARMY
NAVY
MARINE CORPS
AIR FORCE
COAST GUARD
MERCHANT MARINE
NATIONAL AIR GUARD
NATIONAL GUARD
FOREIGN ORGAN. OR MIL. SERVICE (Specify):
USSR Army
1941-1944

HAVE SERVED

NOW SERVING

2. BRANCH OR CORPS OF ABOVE CHECKED ORGANIZATION Highway Batallion - 1941 to Sept, 1942 - Military School - May, 1943 to Sept., 1943

3. DATE SEPARATED FROM EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY (Past service) Sept., 1944

4. TOTAL LENGTH OF EXTENDED ACTIVE DUTY IN U.S. ARMED FORCES (Past and current service) NA

5. DATE ENTERED ACTIVE DUTY May, 1943
   PAST SERVICE
   NA
   CURRENT SERVICE
   NA
6. TOTAL LENGTH OF ACTIVE DUTY IN FOREIGN MILITARY ORGANIZATION 3 years

7. RANK, GRADE OR RATE
   PAST SERVICE Jr. Lt.
   CURRENT SERVICE
   NA
8. SERVICE, SERIAL OR FILE NUMBER (If now serving, provide current number)

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (None or Designator) AND TITLE Jr. Lt.
   PAST SERVICE Highway repair supt.
   CURRENT SERVICE
   NA
10. SECONDARY MIL. OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (None or Designator) AND TITLE
    CURRENT SERVICE
    NA
11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY DUTIES (Indicate whether applicable to past or current service): After graduation was sent to Highway Batallion until Sept., 1942. Then directed to Military Infantry School. Active service until wounded in -ct., 1943. Then in hospitals and reserve until Sept., 1944.

12. CHECK (X) TYPE OF SEPARATION FROM ACTIVE DUTY

HONORABLE DISCHARGE
RETIREMENT FOR SERVICE
UNDUE HARDSHIPS

RELEASE TO INACTIVE DUTY
X RETIREMENT FOR COMBAT DISABILITY
OTHER:

RETIREMENT FOR AGE
RETIREMENT FOR PHYSICAL DISABILITY

13. CHECK (X) COMPONENT IN WHICH YOU SERVED

X REGULAR
RESERVE (Including the National Air and National Guard)
OTHER (Including AUS) NA

3. MILITARY RESERVE, NATIONAL GUARD AND ROTC STATUS NA

1. DO YOU NOW HAVE RESERVE STATUS?
   YES
   NO
2. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE NAT'L. GRD. OR AIR NAT'L. GRD.?
   YES
   NO
3. ARE YOU NOW A MEMBER OF THE ROTC?
   YES
   NO

4. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEMS 1, 2 OR 3 ABOVE, CHECK COMPONENT MEMBERSHIP BELOW

ARMY
NAVY
MARINE CORPS
NATIONAL GUARD
COAST GUARD
NAVY ROTC
INDICATE ROTC CATEGORY NUMBER
AIR FORCE
AIR NAT'L GUARD
ARMY ROTC
AIR FORCE ROTC

5. CURRENT RANK, GRADE OR RATE
6. DATE OF APPOINTMENT IN CURRENT RANK
7. EXPIRATION DATE OF CURRENT RESERVE OBLIGATION

8. CHECK (X) CURRENT RESERVE CATEGORY
   READY RESERVE
   STANDBY (Active)
   STANDBY (Inactive)
   RETIRED

9. PRIMARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (None or Designator) AND TITLE
10. SECONDARY MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL SPECIALTY (None or Designator) AND TITLE

11. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF MILITARY RESERVE DUTIES

12. ARE YOU CURRENTLY ASSIGNED OR ATTACHED TO A RESERVE, NAT'L. GUARD OR ROTC TRAINING UNIT
    YES
    NO
13. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 12, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY AND ADDRESS

14. HAVE YOU A MILITARY MOBILIZATION ASSIGNMENT?
    YES
    NO
15. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO ITEM 14, GIVE UNIT OR AGENCY AND ADDRESS

16. INDICATE TOTAL MILITARY SERVICE, YEARS FOR LONGEVITY PURPOSES INCLUDING ACTIVE AND INACTIVE DUTY
    MONTHS
17. WHERE ARE YOUR SERVICE RECORDS KEPT?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

Section XII

3. Nina Shchogoleyva Ecisejeva
4. None
5. Apr. 12, 1940
6. Moscow, USSR
7. 12 Bolshaya Pionerskaya, Moscow, USSR
8. Unknown 9. NA 10. NA
11. 
12. 1915 13. Moscow, USSR 14. USSR
    14 to 25 - NA

3. Eugenie Volsova
4. None
5. 1950
6. Moscow, USSR
7. Dormitories of Medical College
8. Unknown 9. NA 10. NA
11. Unknown
12. 1924
    14 to 25 - NA 13. Moscow, USSR 14. USSR

3. Rose Minkina Arron
4. None
5. 1954 6. Moscow, USSR
7. Station Taininskaya, Pogranichnaya Ul. 9, Moscow Province, USSR
8. Deceased 9. Mar. 24, 1961 10. Blood clot in brain
11. 29 Pyatritskaya Ul., Moscow, USSR
12. 1924 13. Unknown 14. USSR
    14 to 25- NA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECTION XI

FINANCIAL STATUS

1. ARE YOU ENTIRELY DEFENDENT ON YOUR SALARY X YES NO
2. IF YOUR ANSTER S "NO" TO THE ABCE STATE SOURCES OF OTHER INCOME

3. BANKING INSTITUTIONS WITH WHICH YOU HAVE ACCOUNTS

| NAME OF INSTITUTION           | ADDRESS (City, State, Country) |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| Monmouth County National Bank | Long Branch, New Jersey        |

4. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN IN, OR PETITIONED FOR. BANKRUPTCY. YES X NO
5. IF YOUR ANSWER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE GIVE PARTICULARS, INCLUDING COURT AND DATE(S)

6. GIVE THREE CREDIT REFERENCES IN THE UNITED STATES

| NAME               | ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State)         |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------ |
| Eugene Anron       | 22 Community Drive, West Long Branch, N.J. |
| Lyman Horlik       | 114 W. 46 St., Bayonne, N. J.              |
| Abrahan E. Waldman | 235 Albert Pl., Elberon, N. J.             |

7. DO YOU RECEIVE AN ANNUITY FROM THE UNITED STATES OR DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA GOVERNMENT UNDER ANY RETIREMENT
   ACT, PENSION, OR COMPENSATION FOR MILITARY OR NAVAL SERVICE YES X NO
8. IF YOUR ANSDER IS "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION, GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS

9. DO YOU HAVE ANY FINANCIAL INTEREST IN, OR OFFICIAL CONNECTIONS WITH NON-U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES: OR IN
   OR WITH U.S. CORPORATIONS OR BUSINESSES HAVING SUBSTANTIAL FOREIGN INTERESTS?

YES X NO
(If answer "YES", furnish details on separate sheet.)

# SECTION XII

MARITAL STATUS

1. PRESENT STATUS (Single, Married, Widowed, Separated, Divorced, or Annulled) SPECIFY: Married

2.  June 9, 1950, Moscow, USSR, Irina Dosejeva, divorce, incompatability
    Oct.12, 1954, Moscow, USSR, Eugenie Volsova, divorce, no children

WIFE, HUSRAND If you have been married more than once including annulments - use a separate sheet for former wife or
OR FIANCE: husband giving data required below for all previous marriages. If marriage contemplated, fill in appropriate
information for fiance.

|         | (First) | (Middle) | (Maiden) | (Last) |
| ------- | ------- | -------- | -------- | ------ |
| 3. NAME | Bella   |          | Milstein | Amron  |

4. STATE ANY OTHER NAMES EVER USED
   Bella Mincberg.
   INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH ANY
   OF THESE NAMES WERE USED. IF LEGAL CHANGE GIVE PARTICULARS
   (Where and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE IS
   OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

|                                                                            |                                             |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- |
| 5. DATE OF MARRIAGE                                                        | 6. PLACE OF MARRIAGE (City, State, Country) |
| April 24, 1963                                                             | Long Branch, N. J.                          |
| 7. HIS FOR HER ADDRESS BEFORE MARRIAGE (No., Street, City, State, Country) |                                             |
| 260 Marshall Court, Long Branch, New Jersey                                |                                             |
| 8. LIVING X YES NO                                                         | 9. DATE OF DEATH NA                         |
|                                                                            | 10. CAUSE OF DEATH NA                       |
| 11. CURRENT ADDRESS (Give last address, if deceased)                       |                                             |
| 260 Marshall Court, Long Branch, New Jersey                                |                                             |
| 12. DATE OF BIRTH                                                          | 13. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)   |
| 1927                                                                       | Tomashuv-Maz, Poland                        |
|                                                                            | 14. CITIZENSHIP U. S. A.                    |

SECTION XII CONTINUED TO PAGE 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# SECTION XII CONTINUED FROM PAGE 9

14. IF BORN OUTSIDE - S - CATE OF ENTRY
    July 15, 1949

16. FORMER CITIZENS:P.5) "Countryf bes"
    Displaced person

19. OCCUPATION
    Housewife

15. PLACE OF ENTRY
    New York

17. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP 18. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
    ACQUIRED
    May 16, 1955 Freehold, New Jersey

20. PRESENT EXPLOYER (Also give toemer amployes, or if spouse Aceased or unemployed give last two ergicyers)
    NA

21. EMPLOYER'S CABESS ADDRESS (No. Street. City. Stase. Country)

22. DATES OF MILITARY SSACE (From end to - 3y 100. and Yr)

23. BRANCH OF SERVICE
    NA

24. COUNTRY WITH WHICH MILITARY SERVICE AFFILIATED
    NA

25. CETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE. U.S. CR FOREIGN

# SECTION XIII CHILDREN AND OTHER DEPENDENTS

1. PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING INFORMATION FOR ALL CHILOPEN AMO DEPENDENTS

| NAME            | FELATIONSHIP | CATE AND PLACE OF SOTH           | CITIZENSHIP | ADDRESS                         |
| --------------- | ------------ | -------------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------------------- |
| Bella Anron     | wife         | Poland, 1927                     | U. S. A.    | 200 Marshall St. Long Branch, J |
| Michael Aaron   | son          | Moscow, USSR, April 4, 1955      | U. S. A.    | Same                            |
| Joe Kincberg    | son          | Bielefeld, Germany June 26, 1949 | U. S. A.    | Same                            |
| Steven Mincberg | son          | Long branch, .... June 20, 1957  | U. S. A.    | Same                            |


2. NUMBER OF CHILDREN 'Including step- children and adopted WHO ARE UNMARRIED. UNDER 215. OF AGE. AND NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.
   3

3. NUMBER OF OTHER DEPENDENTS Including spo, parente, ecep-perenza, saser, etc.) WHO DE  YOU FOR AT LEAST SET OF THEIR SUPPORT, OR CHILDREN OVER 21 745. OF AGE PHO ARE NOT SELF-SUPPORTING.
   1

# SECTION XIV FATHER (Give same information, for Stepfather and or Guardian on a separate sheets)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-ddle)
   Philip (Pessha) Amron

2. LIVING
   YES

3. DATE OF DEATH

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

5. STATE OTHER NAMES HE HAS USED
   INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES Including length of time) UNDER WHICH HE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE. GIVE PARTICULARS (Where and by what authority; USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDEO ON PAGE 14 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

4. CURRENT ADDRESS- Give last address, if deceased (No., Street, City. State, Country)
   1412 Ocean Drive, Apt. 11, Miani Beach, 1a.

7. DATE OF BIRTH
   1889

8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Gomel, Russia

9. CITIZENSHIP
   U. S. A.

10. IF BORY OUTSIDE U.S. DATE OF ENTRY
    1900

11. PLACE OF ENTRY
    New York

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIPISI Emertryll0017
    Russia

13. DATE US CITIZENSHIP
    ACQUIRED Unknown

14. HERE ACCURRED (City. State. Country)
    un.cnown

15. OCCUPATION
    Retired

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Father in deceased or unemployed)
    Self-employed

17. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR FATHER'S SUSINESS ACORESS IF SELF-EMPLOYED
    Holiday Hills, Nolans Drive, Lake llopatcong, N. J.

18. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-Tof 19. BRANCH OF SERVICE
    NA

20, COUNTRY

21. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
    None


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# SECTION XV
## MOTHER
1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   AROM BEATRICE
2. LIVING
    YES  NO
3. DATE OF DEATH
   NA
4. CAUSE OF DEATH
   NA
5. STATE OTHER NAMES SHE HAS USED
   none

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (including length of time) UNDER WHICH SHE HAS EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Name and by what authority. USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 16 OF THIS FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT ADDRESS - GIVE LAST ADDRESS, IF DECEASED (No., Street, City, State, Country)
   1412 Ocean Drive, Apt. 11, Miami Beach, Fla.
7. DATE OF BIRTH
   1893
8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)
   Shchedrin, Minsk Province, Russia
9. CITIZENSHIP
   Stateless
10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S. - DATE OF ENTRY
    Unknown
11. PLACE OF ENTRY
    Unknown
12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Country/ies)
    Unknown
13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED
    NA
14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)
    NA
15. OCCUPATION
    Housewife
16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother is deceased or unemployed)
    NA
17. EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS OR MOTHER'S BUSINESS ADDRESS IF SELF EMPLOYED
    NA
18. DATES OF MILITARY SERVICE (From-and-To)
    NA
19. BRANCH OF SERVICE
    NA
20. COUNTRY
    NA
21. DETAILS OF OTHER GOVERNMENT SERVICE, U.S. OR FOREIGN
    NA

# SECTION XVI
## BROTHERS AND SISTERS (Including Half, Step and Adopted Brothers and Sisters)

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   ARON ZENE
2. RELATIONSHIP
   brother
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
   U. S. A.
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
   22 Community Drive, West Long Branch, New Jersey
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE
   40
1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
2. RELATIONSHIP
3. CITIZENSHIP (Country)
4. CURRENT ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)
5. LIVING
    YES  NO
6. AGE

- 11 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECTION XVII

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)
   MILSTEIN FR

5. STATE OTHER NAMES HE HAS USED

None

FATHER.IN.LAW

2. LIVING

YES X NO

3. DATE OF DEATH

1941

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

heart disease

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time, UNDER WHICH HE HAS
EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where
and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 15 OF THIS
FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

6. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Kosciuszko Square 12, Tomashuv-Maz, Poland

7. DATE OF BIRTH Unknown 8. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Tomashuv-Maz., Poland

10. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.-DATE OF ENTRY

NA

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

NA

9. CITIZENSHIP

Polish

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Countries)

NA

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED

NA

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

NA

15. OCCUPATION

Storekeeper

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Father-in-Law is deceased or unemployed)

Self-employed

# SECTION XVIII

1.  FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

MILSTEIN MINDL

5. STATE OTHER NAMES SHE HAS USED

None

MOTHER-IN-LAW

2. LIVING

YES X NO

3. DATE OF DEATH

Unknown

4. CAUSE OF DEATH

Nazi conc. camp

INDICATE CIRCUMSTANCES (Including length of time) UNDER WHICH SHE HAS
EVER USED THESE NAMES. IF LEGAL CHANGE, GIVE PARTICULARS (Where
and by what authority). USE EXTRA SPACE PROVIDED ON PAGE 15 OF THIS
FORM TO RECORD THIS INFORMATION.

8. CURRENT OR LAST ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country)

Unknown

9. PLACE OF BIRTH (City, State, Country)

Tomashuv-Maz., Poland

12. IF BORN OUTSIDE U.S.-DATE OF ENTRY

NA

11. PLACE OF ENTRY

NA

9. CITIZENSHIP

Polish

12. FORMER CITIZENSHIP(S) (Countries)

NA

13. DATE U.S. CITIZENSHIP ACQUIRED

NA

14. WHERE ACQUIRED (City, State, Country)

NA

15. OCCUPATION

NA

16. PRESENT EMPLOYER (Give last employer, if Mother-in-Law is deceased or unemployed)

NA

# SECTION XIX

RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO EITHER (1) LIVE ABROAD,
(2) ARE NOT U.S. CITIZENS OR (3) WORK FOR A FOREIGN GOVERNMENT

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

GORELIK VOLODYA

2. RELATIONSHIP

uncle

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

Bobruisk, USSR

5. EMPLOYED BY

Government

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

USSR

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT up to 1952

once every 2-3 years

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

September, 1952

3. AGE

60

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

3. AGE

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

1. FULL NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP

3. AGE

4. ADDRESS OR COUNTRY IN WHICH RELATIVE RESIDES

5. EMPLOYED BY

6. CITIZENSHIP (Country)

7. FREQUENCY OF CONTACT

8. DATE OF LAST CONTACT

SECTION XIX CONTINUED TO PAGE 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

# SECTION YIT CONTINUED FROM PAGE 12

6. SPECIAL REMARKS. IF ANY. CONCERNING RELATIVES NOTES IN SECTION XIX ABOVE

# SECTION XX RELATIVES BY BLOOD, MARRIAGE OR ADOPTION WHO ARE IN THE MILITARY OR CIVIL SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP 3. AGE 4. CITIZENSHIP

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country) 6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (if known)

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP 3. AGE 4. CITIZENSHIP

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country) 6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (if known)

1. NAME (Last-First-Middle)

2. RELATIONSHIP 3. AGE 4. CITIZENSHIP

3. ADDRESS (No., Street, City, State, Country) 6. TYPE AND LOCATION OF SERVICE (if known)

# SECTION XXI REFERENCES, ACQUAINTANCES, AND NEIGHBORS

1. LIST FIVE CHARACTER REFERENCES, NOT RELATIVES, IN THE U.S. WHO KNOW YOU INTIMATELY

| NAME (Last-First-Middle) | BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City and State) | RESIDENCE ADDRESS (No., Street, City and State) |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Mrs. C. M. Arnold        | Dept. of City Planning, etc.                   | 214 Bay View 176., Belvedere, Calif.            |
| Lawrence Blum            | Blauvelt Engineering Co.                       | 200 Heath Ave., Bronx 63, N. Y.                 |
| Folzoll, Anore           | 79 Madison Ave., NYC                           | 34-23 109th st., Richmond Hills 13,N.Y.         |
| Tenzer, Milton           | Fort Monmouth                                  | 232 Lenox Ave., Long Branch, N. J.              |
| Staneiman, Laurence C.   | 404 Broadway Long Branch, N. J.                | 15 Park Ave., Elberon, N. J.                    |

2. LIST FIVE PERSONS IN THE U.S. WHO KNOW YOU SOCIALLY - NOT RELATIVES, SUPERVISORS OR EMPLOYEES

| NAME (Last-First-Middle) | BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City and State)                                  | RESIDENCE ADDRESS (No., Street, City and State) |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Tucker, Jerome           | 141 Broadway Long Branch, N. J.                                                 | 241 Lenox Ave., Long Branch, N. J.              |
| Epstein, Stanley         | Unknown                                                                         | 23 Maryland Ave., West Long Branch, N. J.       |
| Lawn, Howard             | Unknown                                                                         | 274 Lenox Ave., Long Branch, N. J.              |
| Scher, J. F.             | EAI Eatontown, N. J.                                                            | 571 Loey Ave., Long Branch, N. J.               |
| Dingle, John G.          | Blauvelt Engineering Co. 34-25 150th Place 79 Madison Ave., NYC Flushing, N. Y. |                                                 |

3. LIST THREE NEIGHBORS AT YOUR MOST RECENT NORMAL RESIDENCE IN THE U.S.

| NAME (Last-First-Middle) | BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City and State) | RESIDENCE ADDRESS (No., Street, City and State) |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| Seitelbaum, Sidney       | Fort Monmouth                                  | 4 Marshall Court Long Branch, N. J.             |
| Saxon, Alfred            | 157 Broad St., Red Bank, N. J.                 | 7 Marshall Court, Long Branch, N. J.            |
| Lehrer, H. S.            | Unknown                                        | 8 Marshall Court Long Branch, N. J.             |

- 13 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECTION XXII CLUBS, SOCIETIES, AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS

NOTE: Last names and addresses of all clubs, societies, professional societies, employee groups or organizations of any kind (Include membership in or support of any organization having headquarters or branch in a foreign country) to which you belong or have belonged.

| NAME AND CHAPTER | ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Country) | DATES OF MEMBERSHIP FROM | TO  |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | --- |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |
|                  |                                                |                          |     |

# SECTION XXIII RESIDENCES FOR THE PAST 15 YEARS

| ADDRESS - LAST RESIDENCE FIRST (Number, Street, City, State, Country) | INCLUSIVE DATES FROM | TO           |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | ------------ |
| 250 Marshall Court, Long Branch, New Jersey                           | April, 1963          | present time |
| 31 Cedar Avenue, Long Branch, New Jersey                              | Sept., 1962          | April 1.53   |
| 47 Novokuznetskaya UI., Moscow, U. S. S. R.                           | Nov., 1961           | Sept., 1962  |
| 29 Pyatnitskaya UI., Moscow, U. S. S. R.                              | Apr., 1960           | 107., 1951   |
| 12 Bolshaya Pionerskaya UI., Moscow, U. S. S. R.                      | June, 1946           | Apr., 1960   |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECTION XXIV ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

1. DO YOU ADVOCATE OR HAVE YOU EVER ADVOCATED, OR ARE YOU NOW OR HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF; OR HAVE YOU EVER SUPPORTED OR BEEN ASSOCIATED WITH ANY POLITICAL PARTY, INDIVIDUAL OR ORGANIZATION WHICH ADVOCATES OR TEACHES THE OVERTHROW OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES BY FORCE VIOLENCE OR OTHER UNCONSTITUTIONAL MEANS OR SEEKS BY FORCE OR VIOLENCE TO DENY PERSONS THEIR RIGHTS UNDER THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES

2. IF YOU HAVE ANSWERED "YES" TO THE ABOVE QUESTION. EXPLAIN

|     |
| --- |
|     |

3. DO YOU USE OR HAVE YOU EVER USED INTOXICANTS?

4. IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?

| YES  |
| :--: |
| X NO |

5. DO YOU USE OR HAVE YOU EVER USED NARCOTICS?

6. IF SO, TO WHAT EXTENT?

| YES  |
| :--: |
| X NO |

7. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN A MEMBER OF, OR SUPPORTED, OR HAD ANY CONNECTIONS WITH A FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATION OR ITS ACTIVITIES

IF ANSWER IS "YES", GIVE COMPLETE DETAILS.

| YES  |
| :--: |
| X NO |

8. EMPLOYMENT SINCE NAME OF GOVERNMENT DEPARTMENTS, AGENCIES OR OFFICES TO WHICH YOU HAVE APPLIED FOR EM-

NA

9. IF TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE, ANY OF THE ABOVE HAVE CONDUCTED AN INVESTIGATION OF YOU, INDICATE THE NAME OF THE AGENCY AND THE APPROXIMATE DATE OF THE INVESTIGATION.

NA

NOTE SPECIAL! If your answer is "YES" to the following Questions 10, 11 or 12, provide the information requested for each INSTRUCTIONS. Question on a separate, signed sheet and attach the sheet to this form in a sealed envelope.

10. HAVE YOU, OR TO YOUR KNOWLEDGE WAS YOUR SPOUSE EVER BEEN DETAINED, ARRESTED, INDICTED OR CONVICTED FOR ANY VIOLATION OF THE LAW OTHER THAN A MINOR TRAFFIC VIOLATION IN THE UNITED STATES OR ABROAD?

| YES  |
| :--: |
| X NO |

IF SO, STATE NAME OF COURT, CITY, STATE, COUNTRY, DATE, NATURE OF OFFENSE AND DISPOSITION OF CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SPECIAL INSTRUCTION ABOVE.

11. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN ARRESTED, COURT-MARTIALED OR OTHERWISE PUNISHED UNDER MILITARY LAW OR REGULATION? DESCRIBE INCIDENT(S) AND PROVIDE DATE(S) OF OCCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

| YES  |
| :--: |
| X NO |

12. ARE THERE ANY UNFAVORABLE INCIDENTS IN YOUR LIFE, NOT MENTIONED ABOVE, WHICH MAY BE DISCOVERED IN SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION, WHETHER YOU WERE DIRECTLY INVOLVED OR NOT, WHICH MIGHT REQUIRE EXPLANATION? IF SO, DESCRIBE INCIDENT(S) AND PROVIDE DATE(S) OF OCCURRENCE ON SEPARATE SHEET IN ACCORDANCE WITH SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS ABOVE.

| YES  |
| :--: |
| X NO |

# SECTION XXV PERSON TO BE NOTIFIED IN CASE OF EMERGENCY

1. NAME (First-Middle-Last)

Bella Amron

2. RELATIONSHIP

Wife

3. HOME ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country)

200 Marshal Court, Long Branch, New Jersey

4. HOME PHONE NO.

201-222-3592

5. BUSINESS ADDRESS (No., Street, City, Zone, State, Country) - INDICATE NAME OF FIRM OR EMPLOYER, IF APPLICABLE

NA

6. BUSINESS PHONE NO. & EXT.

NA

7. IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, OTHER CLOSE RELATIVES (Spouse, Mother, Father) MAY ALSO BE NOTIFIED. IF SUCH NOTIFICATION IS NOT DESIRABLE, BECAUSE OF HEALTH OR OTHER REASONS, PLEASE SO STATE.

- 15 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# SECTION SEVI

-16-

## CERTIFICATION

YOU ARE INFORMED THAT THE CORRECTNESS OF ANY STATEMENT MADE IN THIS AFFLICATION WILL BE INVESTIGATED.

I have read and understand the instructions. I Certify that the foregoing answers are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I agree that my misstatement or omission as to material fact will constitute grounds for immediate dismissal or rejection of my application. I also understand that any false statement made herein may be punishable by law (U.S. Code, Title 18, Section 1501A

1. DATE OF SIGNATURE

July 5, 1944

3. SIGNED AT (City and State)

Long Branch, New Jersey

2 SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT

*Jung Alum*

4 SIGNATURE OF WITNESS

*Bella Armen*

NOTE: Use the following space for details. Reference each continued item by section and item number to which it relates. Sign your name at the end of the added material. If additional space is required use extra pages the same size as this page.

see 2.7

From Nov., 1944 to J., 1949 Technical Library of Moscow City Soviet
C. Gurzy 13, Moscow, U. S. S. R.

Library, technical information Mrs. Makalinskaya

Senior Librarian. $90 per month

Publication of monthly bulletin in field of municipal works, road and street construction and maintenance, architecture, city planning and other work connected with the municipality. Supervision of twenty free-lance translators and abstractors (English to Russian). Translation and editorial work from English to Russian.

Left due to reduction of forces.

Section XII - 4 Previous marriage to Sol Minsterg, deceased Dec.12, 1953

see additional enclosed sheet to Section XII.

*Jung Alum*


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SUPPLEMENT
to
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
of
IRVING ARON

During the years I spent in the Soviet Union I had many friends. Among them were writers, journalists, engineers, doctors and professionals in different fields. It would be very difficult to list ali of them. ?or instance, during the last year I met a new neighbour in the building I moved into. He was a professor in the field of economics. His name was Barsky and he told me many things which I never knew ab-ut concerning the economic basis of the Soviets system. He noted that with an industrial labour force exceeding the labour force of the U. S. A. by 100% the productivity of labour and industrial production wasthree times lower.

While studying in high school I became acquainted with a well-known movie producer - Alexander Stolper. He is the brother of one of the students with whom I was freidly in high school. Besides, through a friend in college I met with several writers and journalists such as Dykhovichny, Slobodskoy, and others writing in the field of satire.

People working in cla cified fields of industry never talk about their work. And even though my relatives through my wife in Russia worked in the fieldof aviation and electronics I did not know anything about their ork, I only knew that my wife's brother worked in F-.., and her brother-in-law worked near Sokol (both in Moscow). Her brother's name is Lev Minkin and her brother-in-law's name is Boris Bershadsky.

During te last years I worked as a translator and met many people who were born in the U. S. A. Among them are Morza Shirman. Paul Shiman, Grace Duetch-Ecogay (nee Sgovic) - now in Italy, and many others.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# Section XIX

GARELY EUGELE
Riga, CSR
USSR
cousin
Government
33

Het him in 1960 and 1961 and 1962, during the summer
Het with him the last time in 1962 (summer)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1994
CIA HISTORICAL REVIEW PROGRAM

THIRD AGENCY DOCUMENTS 201-759831 Irving AMRON

| FBI | Unnumbered XHX           | Jul 18, 1963   | Newark, New Jersey |
| --- | ------------------------ | -------------- | ------------------ |
| FBI | F#105-2862; B#105-100312 | 2/28/64        | Newark, New Jersey |
| FRI | #105-2862; B#105-100312  | 5/25/64        | Newark, New Jersey |
| FBI | Unnumbered               | Sept 10, 1965  | Newark, New Jersey |
| FBI | Unnumbered               | July 24, 1969  | Washington, D.C.   |
| FBI | Unnumbered               | Sept. 19, 1969 | New York, N.Y.     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

Irving Arron
260 Harshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey
June 21, 1964

Box # 1390
Main P. C..
Washington, D. C.
20013

Contleman:

In answer to your advertisement in the New York Times of June 21, 1964 for a Russian linguist capable of translating analyzing and editing publications, as well as interpreting, I am enclosing Ly resume.

I lived in Russia for over 25 years and graduated college there after the beginning of the German-hussian war. After 7 years of continuous attempts to leave Aussia, I was repatriated in September, 1962. I az a native-born citizen of the United States of America.

In fussia I worked as a translator, editor and head of Translator's Bureaus for twenty years. My experience in translating, abstracting and selection of technical articles for publication is significant. My initial salary requirements are $10,000 per year. I would appreciate the opportunity of a personal interview for discussing possibilities which may exist for me in your organization.

Sincerely yours,

Frung hinein

Irving Arron


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Resume of
ERVING ARON

260 Harshall Court
Long Eranch, New Jersey
Telephora: (201)-222-3592

Born December 4, 1917, Brocklyn, N. Y.
Married, 2 children

Bachelor of Science, 194:
Moscow Automobile & Highway Institute

1.  Blauvelt Engineering Co., 79 Mad son Ave., J. Y. C.
    H: gavay engineer - January, 1963 to present time.
    Bartow rk calculations, alignment computations, drainage
    computations and design, right-of-way.

2.  U. S. S. R. Chamber of Commerce, Moscow. Free-lance tech-
    nical translator and editor - Russian to English 1952 to
    1952. Left due to repatriation.
    Reports for International Congresses, trade publications,
    manuals, dan construction, road-building and construction
    Lachicory.

3.  Foreign crade Publishing House. Free-lance technical trans-
    later and editor - Russian to English 1956 to 1962.
    Same as in iten 2.

4.  Scientific Research Inst tute of Construction and Rcad-Building
    Machinery, Kosov. 1956 to 1958.
    Left due to completion of translating jobs.
    Head of Translator's Bureau. Managezent, editing, translation
    Russian to English: construction and read-building machinery
    manuals, trade publications.

5.  Borough Acad Repair Department, Moscow.
    Senior engineer 1950 to 1955. Reduction of forces.
    Field work - surveying, estimator.

6.  Concrete Plant, Escow
    Laboratory assistant 1949 to 1950. Reduction of forces.
    Checking quality and composition cf concrete.

7.  Technical Library of Moscow City Soviet.
    Senior Librarian 1944 to 1949. Reduction of forces.
    Head of Translator's Bureau - English to Russian. Publication
    of monthly information bulletin.

    Part-time translater - Hydraulic Power Designing Institute
    (Hydroenergoproject) - English to Russian 1945 to 1952
    (abstracting). Russian to English 1952 to 1952 (Reports for
    International Congresses, dam projects).

Book translated and published in X scow in 1958 by Foreign
Languages Publishing House: "Precast Concrete in the Soviet
Union"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

ving Aron
Harshall Court
ng Branch, New Jersey

> Air Mail

Box # 1390
Main P. O.
Washington, D. C.
20013

![Stamp with text "New York 2 Jun 1964"]

![American flag and "US Air Mail" text]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

260 Marshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey
Telephone: (201)-222-3532

Born December 4, 1917, Brooklyn, N. Y. Bachelor of Science, 1941
Married, 2 children Moscow Automobile Highway Institute

I was born December 4, 1917 in Brooklyn, N. Y. My father, Philip Anson was
successively a farmer, a shoemaker, a butcher and worked in a Jewish coop-
erative organization. In 1931, at the age of 13, I left for Russia with my
parents. My father in Russia worked as an agronomist in Biro-Bidjan,
attended school in Khabarovsk. In January, 1933, our family returned to the
U. S. A. due to the illness of my younger brother. In September, 1933 we
returned to Russia. My father then worked in construction as a manager, and
later worked in a store factory as a shoemaker. My mother worked as a manager
in a public dining room. I graduated high school in Moscow in 1936 and was
accepted as a student in the Moscow Automobile & Highway Institute. In 1937
my parents and brother returned to the U. S. A. I remained in Moscow as I
wished to finish my courses in college. I graduated in 1941, after the
beginning of war with Germany and was sent as a superintendent to a Highway
Bat. In September, 1942 I was sent to Military School in Moscow. After
finishing as a 2nd Lt. I was in active duty as a platoon officer. I was
wounded Oct. 11, 1943. I was operated upon three times, the last time in
April, 1945. After being discharged from the Soviet Army due to combat dis-
ability I got a job as a senior librarian in the Technical Library of the
Moscow City Soviet. In 1949 due to the small number of publications being
received from abroad my position in the library was eliminated. I then got
a job as a laboratory assistant in a concrete plant and after a reduction
of forces I got a job as a senior engineer in the Bauman Boro Road Repair
Dept. At this time I was divorced and re-married. My first wife was a
bookkeeper. Her step father was a major in the Soviet Army. He was later
killed in 1942, during WW II. Her maiden name, or her stepfather was
Shchegolyeva. My second wife (maiden name - Volsova) was a pathologist.
She hid the fact that she could not have children and we were divorced one
month after my marriage. In 1952 I met Rose Marzina. We were officially
married only a few months before our son was born. The cause of this delay
in our marriage was the fact that I was born in the United States. Her brother
is an aviation engineer and her brother-in-law works in the field of elec-
tronics. Her sister considered that our marriage would harm my wife's re-
latives. In 1955, after the birth of our son we began handing in applica-
tions for an exit visa from the Soviet Government. At first we tried to
get out as visitors to my parents. We received our first refusal at the
time of the Hungarian Revolt. Up till 1957, when my father came to visit us
we continued to hand in applications for an exit visa as visitors. After
1957 we continued to hand in applications approximately every six months
to leave the Soviet Union permanently. And we continued to regularly hear
refusals. I consider that the agravations connected with these refusals
contributed to the causes of my wife's death in March, 1961. And only in
July, 1962 my son and I received exit visas. As I mentioned in Form 444 I
filled in two different applications. The first answer to the applications
I filled out in the U. S. Embassy in Moscow: as an immigrant and as a native-
born citizen was a Hongusta immigrant visa. The Board of Appeals of the
Dept. of State, after my arrival, restored my native-born citizenship.

In 1955, due to a reduction of forces I lost my staff job in the
Bauman Road Repair Dept. At this time I was working as a free-lance
translator in the U.S.S.R. Chamber of Commerce and as a part-time trans-
lator in Hydroenergoproject. Until January of 1956 I worked for these
organizations. In 1956 I began working as the Head of the Translators Dept.
of the Scientific-Research Institute of Construction and Road-Building
Machinery. After having finished the translation of all manuals in this
field I continued working until I left the Soviet Union as a free-lance
translator and editor for the Chamber of Commerce, the Foreign Trade
Publishing House, the Foreign Languages Publishing House, Hydro energoproject
and other organizations requiring translators.

After returning to the U. S. A. I got a job as a civil engineer. At
first I worked for Stelling, Lord-Wood and Van Suetendael from Nov., 1962
to Dec., 1962 and then from January, 1963 to July, 1964 I worked for
Blauvelt Engineering Co. At present I am working for Harold J. Seldin,
60 Broad St., Red Bank, New Jersey. During the last several months I have
been working on a free-lance basis with AEREACI Corporation (1634 Arch St.,
Philadelphia, Pa.) as an abstractor.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# SUPPLEMENT
to
AUTOBIOGRAPHY
of
IRVING ARON

During the years I spent in the Soviet Union I had many friends. Among them were writers, journalists, engineers, doctors and professionals in different fields. It would be very difficult to list all of them. For instance, during the last year I met a new neighbour in the building I moved into. He was a professor in the field of economics. His name was Barsay and he told me many things which I never knew about concerning the economic basis of the Soviet system. He noted that with an industrial labour force exceeding the labour force of the U. S. A. by 100; the productivity of labour and industrial production was three times lower.

While studying in high school I became acquainted with a well-known movie producer - Alexander Stolper. He is the brother of one of the students with whom I was friendly in high school. Besides, through a friend in college I met with several writers and journalists such as Dykhovichny, Slobodskoy, and others writing in the field of satire.

People working in classified fields of industry never talk about their work. And even though my relatives through my wife in Russia worked in the field of aviation and electronics I did not know anything about their work. I only knew that my wife's brother worked in ..... and her brother-in-law's name is Lev Minkin and her brother-in-law's name is Boris Bershadsky.

During the last years I worked as a translator and met many people who were born in the U. S. A. Among them are Norma Shulman. Paul Shulman, Grace Duetch-Bogaty (nee Sgovic) - now in Italy, and many others.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

# Section XIX

G.PELK ETGE: Z
Riga, TS.R
USSR

cousin
Government
33

Met him in 1960 and 1961 and 1962, during the summer
Met with him the last time in 1962 (summer)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

Resume of
Irving Aronov

260 Marshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey
Telephone: (201)-222-3592

Born December 4, 1917, Brooklyn, N. Y. Bachelor of Science, 1941
Married, 3 children Moscow Automobile & Highway Institute

I was born December 4, 1917 in Brooklyn, N. Y. My father, Philip Aron was successively a farmer, a shoemaker, a butcher and worked in a Jewish cooperative organization. In 1931, at the age of 13, I left for Russia with my parents. My father in Russia worked as an agronomist in Biro-Bidjan. I attended school in Khabarovsk. In January, 1933, our family returned to the U. S. A. due to the illness of my younger brother. In September, 1933 we returned to Russia. My father then worked in construction as a manager, and later worked in a shoe factory as a shoemaker. My mother worked as a manager in a public dining room. I graduated high school in Moscow in 1936 and was accepted as a student in the Moscow Automobile & Highway Institute. In 1937 my parents and brother returned to the U. S. A. I remained in Moscow as I wished to finish my courses in college. I graduated in 1941, after the beginning of war with Germany and was sent as a superintendent to a Highway Bat. In September, 1942 I was sent to Military School in Moscow. After finishing as a Jr. Lt. I was in active duty as a platoon officer. I was wounded Oct. 11, 1943. I was operated upon three times, the last time in April, 1945. After being discharged from the Soviet Army due to combat disability I got a job as a senior librarian in the Technical Library of the Moscow City Soviet. In 1949 due to the small number of publications being received from abroad my position in the library was eliminated. I then got a job as a laboratory assistant in a concrete plant and after a reduction of forces I got a job as a senior engineer in the Bauman Boro Road Repair Dept. At this time I was divorced and re-married. My first wife was a bookkeeper. Her step father was a major in the Soviet Army. He was later killed, in 1942, during WW II. Her maiden name, by her stepfather was Shchegolyeva. My second wife (maiden name - Volsova) was a pathologist. She hid the fact that she could not have children and we were divorced one month after my marriage. In 1952 I met Rose Markina. We were officially married only a few months before our son was born. The cause of this delay in our marriage was the fact that I was born in the United States. Her brother is an aviation engineer and her brother-in-law works in the field of electronics. Her mother considered that our marriage would harm my wife's relatives. In 1955, after the birth of our son we began handing in applications for an exit visa from the Soviet Government. At first we tried to get out as visitors to my parents. We received our first refusal at the time of the Ungarian Revolt. Up till 1957, when my father came to visit us we continued to hand in applications for an exit visa as visitors. After 1957 we continued to hand in applications approximately every six months to leave the Soviet Union permanently. And we continued to regularly hear refusals. I consider that the aggravations connected with these refusals contributed to the causes of my wife's death in March, 1961. And only in July, 1962 my son and I received exit visas. As I mentioned in Form 444 I filled in two different applications. The first answer to the applications I filled out in the U. S. Embassy in Moscow: as an immigrant and as a native-born citizen was a Nonquota immigrant visa. The Board of Appeals of the Dept. of State, after my arrival, restored my native-born citizenship.

In 1955, due to a reduction of forces I lost my staff job in the Bauman Road Repair Dept. At this time I was working as a free-lance translator in the U.S.S.R. Chamber of Commerce and as a part-time translator in Hydrenergo project. Until January of 1956 I worked for these organizations. In 1956 I began working as the Head of the Translators Dept. of the Scientific-Research Institute of Construction and Road-Building Machinery. After having finished the translation of all manuals in this field I continued working until I left the Soviet Union as a free-lance translator and editor for the Chamber of Commerce, the Foreign Trade Publishing House, the Foreign Languages Publishing House, Hydrenergo project and other organizations requiring translators.

After returning to the U. S. A. I got a job as a civil engineer. At first I worked for Stelling, Lord-Wood and Van Suetondal from Nov., 1962 to Dec., 1962 and then from January, 1963 to July, 1964 I worked for Blauvelt Engineering Co. At present I am working for Harold J. Seldin, 60 Broad St., Red Bank, New Jersey. During the last several months I have been working on a free-lance basis with A EREACI Corporation (1634 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.) as an abstractor.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993 CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

SEN: WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ---------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   |                  |      |          |
| 2   |                  |      |          |
| 3   |                  |      |          |
| 4   |                  |      |          |
| 5   |                  |      |          |
| 6   |                  |      |          |

| ACTION      | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

phone my to GX 145 file. Jatko will phoned Thorne, o/s, who will opt State & FBI files.

Need much more on him. contacts with Party offiliations militia, etc. N.C. school of marximo, etc.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE

UNCLASSIFIED CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

Form No. 237


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

| SEN.         | WILL CHECK CLASSIFICATION TOP AND | FROM   |
| ------------ | --------------------------------- | ------ |
| UNCLASSIFIED | CONFIDENTIAL                      | SECRET |

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

## OFFICIAL ROUTING SLIP

| TO  | NAME AND ADDRESS                | DATE | INITIALS |
| --- | ------------------------------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1   | J. Pearse Pimentel at NS        |      |          |
| 2   | Resident alien A12762401 at NYC |      |          |
| 3   | For details see Zob Br          |      |          |
| 6   |                                 |      |          |

| : ACTION    | DIRECT REPLY | PREPARE REPLY  |
| ----------- | ------------ | -------------- |
| APPROVAL    | DISPATCH     | RECOMMENDATION |
| COMMENT     | FILE         | RETURN         |
| CONCURRENCE | INFORMATION  | SIGNATURE      |

Remarks:

Phoned Jerry Marriott who will try to get this file.

Phoned Theron, 045, who will get State & FBI files.

Need much more on him:

Family affiliation, militia contacts with KGB, Marxism, etc.

FOLD HERE TO RETURN TO SENDER

FROM: NAME, ADDRESS AND PHONE NO. DATE

| UNCLASSIFIED      | CONFIDENTIAL          | SECRET                                          |
| ----------------- | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| FORM NO. 2-61 237 | Use previous editions | U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1961 0-597582 |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

Irving Amron
260 Marshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey

September 29, 1964

Box 1390
Main Post Office
Washington, D. C.
20013

Dear

I greatly appreciate the time you spent with me during our interview in Philadelphia. My intentions to work for your organization have not changed. I am very busy at my job at present and cannot, due to this, send you a different copy of my autobiography. I hope that this will not unduly influence the conclusions of your organization relating to my employment.

Yours truly,

![signature]

Irving Amron


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

Irving Arron
260 Marshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey

> [Figure: A postage stamp with a blurry portrait on it]

Box 1370
Main Post Office
Washington, D. C.
20013


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

Irving Amron
260 Marshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey
September 23, 1964

Mr. Paul Peters
Box 1390
Main Post Office
Washington, D. C.
20013

Dear Mr. Peters:

I greatly appreciate the time you spent with me during our interview in Philadelphia. My intentions to work for your organization have not changed. I am very busy at my job at present and cannot, due to this, send you a different copy of my autobiography. I hope that this will not unduly influence the conclusions of your organization relating to my employment.

Yours truly,

![signature of Irving Amron]
Irving Aaron


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

Irving Acron
260 Marshall Court
Long Branch, New Jersey

Mr. Paul Peters
Box 1390
Main Post Office
Washington, D. C.
20013

![postage stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

Washington, D.C.
26 August 1964

Dear Mr. Amron:

I am making reference to your reply to my ad for a position with the U.S. Government as a Russian language lirguist.

From 1 to 4 September, I will be in Philadelphia to conduct interviews for the position. I will phone you upon my arrival in Philadelphia to arrange a mutually convenient schedule for an interview with you.

Should you still be interested and if you have not already forwarded the material to me, kindly prepare the forms I forwarded to you some time ago. Also, please bring with you the photograph and the autobiography.

Thank you for your interest in our program.

Cordially,

Administrative Officer

Box 1390
Main Post Office
Washington, D.C. 20013


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Washington, D.C.
26 August 1964

Dear Mr. Amron:

I am making reference to your reply to my ad for a position with the U.S. Government as a Russian language linguist.

From i to 4 September, i will be in Philadelphia to conduct interviews for the position. I will phone you upon my arrival in Philadelphia to arrange a mutually convenient schedule for an interview with you.

Should you still be interested and if you have not already forwarded the material to me, kindly prepare the forms I forwarded to you some time ago. Also, please bring with you the photograph and the autobiography.

Thank you for your interest in our program.

Cordially,

Paul Peters
Administrative Officer

Box 1390
Main Post Office
Washington, D.C. 20013


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# SECRET

NOTE: See instructions on reverse side of form. Type or print. Guide for use of 201 system is contained in CSEB 70-1-1. Chapter III. Annex B.

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993 (CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM)

# PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

TO: RED/201 Section

TER STATION: THF

DATE

ACTION

OPEN

AMEND

CANCEL

FROM: NAME BRANCH ROOM NO. PHONE

1. CHECK T-4 FTO 201 REQUEST. DO NOT CHECK FOR IDN. 2. INCLUDE TRUE NAME FROM MACHINE LIST 3. RESTRICTED 4. PERMANENT CHANGE

YES NO YES NO

5. 201 NO. IDN NO. 6. SOURCE DOCUMENT DATE

7. NAME (Last) (First) (Middle) 8. SEX 9. PHOTO

M F YES NO

10. NAME VARIATIONS

TYPE (Last) (First) (Middle)

11. DATE OF BIRTH 12. LOCATION OF BIRTH 13. COUNTRY OF LOCATION/CLE 15. OCCUPATION/TITLE

16. ORGANIZATION OR INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION CODE

17. OCCUPATION (Clear Text) CODE

18. ACTION DESK CODE 19. SECONDARY DESK CODE

20. CRYPTONYM HAND CARRY IF TRUE NAME APPEARS ABOVE

21. COMMENTS

22. SIGNATURE 23.

IDN- 201- (36)

FORM 11-62 831 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET 400


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

Standard Form 93
REV. 4-75
BUREAU OF THE BUDGET
CIRCULAR A-52

REPORT OF MEDICAL HISTORY
THIS INFORMATION IS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AND WILL NOT BE RELEASED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS
APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

2. LAST NAME, FIRST NAME, MIDDLE INITIAL
   Awron, Irving
5. PURPOSE OF EXAMINATION
6. DATE OF EXAMINATION
   7/4/64

4. HOME ADDRESS (Street, City, State, and ZIP Code or APO or DPO)
   260 Marshall Ct., Lickity Branch


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

TYPE OR PRINT NAME OF PHYSICIAN (IF EXAMINER): HAROLD GABEL
DATE: 7/6/64
SIGNATURE: /s/ Harvie Felix
NUMBER OF ATTACHED SHEETS
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1963 0-703853


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# REPORT OF MEDICAL HISTORY

THIS INFORMATION IS FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AND WILL NOT BE RELEASED TO UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS

1. LAST NAME-FIRST NAE-MI

Amron, Irong

5. PLACE OF EXAMINATION

6. DATE OF EXAMINATION

7/4/64

4. HOME ADDRESS: No STREET, CITY OR TOWN, COUNTY AND STATE

260 Marshall Ct, Long Branch, NJ

10 AGENCY

11. ORGANIZATION UNIT

7. SEX

8. RACE

9. TOTAL YEARS GOVERNMENT SERVICE

Male light

12. DATE OF BIRTH

13. PLACE OF BIRTH

Dec 4, 1917

Brooklyn, NY

14. NAME, RELATIONSHIP, AND ADDRESS OF NEXT OF KIN

Bella Amron, Wife

260 Marshall Ct, Long Branch, NJ

15. EXAMINING FACULTY OR EXAMINER, AND ADDRESS:

1248 Norwood Ave.

16. OTHER INFORMATION

Harold Cochel, M.D. Oakhurst, New Jersey

17. STATEMENT OF EXAMINEE'S PRESENT HEALTH - (Follow by description of past history, of complaint or injury)

I am in excellent health

18. FAMILY HISTORY

negative

19. HAS ANY BLOOD RELATIVE PRESENT IN FAMILY HISTORY, SUCH AS:
    TUBERCULOSIS, DIABETES, CANCER, HEART DISEASE, ETC

RELATION

AGE

STATE OF HEALTH

IF DEAD, CAUSE OF DEATH

YES

NO (Check each item)

Father

75

good

Mother

66

good

Wife

37

good

Son

40

good

* HAD SYPHILIS

* HAD DIABETES

* HAD CANCER

* HAD KIDNEY TROUBLE

* HAD HEART TROUBLE

* HAD STOMACH TROUBLE

* HAD RHEUMATISM ALLERGY

* HAD ASTHMA HAY FEVER,
  HIVES

* HAD EPILEPSY

* COMMITTED SUICIDE

* BEEN INSANE

Sisters

Children

7

good

9

good

16

good

20. HAVE YOU EVER HAD OR HAVE YOU NOW, (Place date in () of each item)

YES

NO (Check each item)

YES

NO (Check each item)

YES

NO (Check each item)

YES

NO (Check each item)

* SCARLET FEVER, ERYSIPELAS

* GOITER

* TUMOR, GROWTH CYST CANCER

* TRACHOMA OR OTHER EYE DISEASE

* DYPHTHERIA

* MUMPS

* RUPTURE

* FOOT TROUBLE

* RHEUMATIC FEVER

* WHOOPING COUGH

* APPENDICITIS

* NEPHRITIS

* SWOLLEN OR PAINFUL JOINTS

* FREQUENT OR SEVERE HEADACHE

* SHORTNESS OF BREATH

* PILES OR RECTAL DISEASE

* PARALYSIS OR WEAKNESS

* DIZZINESS OR FAINTING SPELLS

* PAIN OR PRESSURE IN CHEST

* FREQUENT OR PAINFUL URINATION

* EPILEPSY OR FITS

* EYE TROUBLE

* EAR, NOSE, OR THROAT TROUBLE

* CHRONIC COUGH

* KIDNEY STONE OR BLOOD IN URINE

* CAR, TRAIN, SEA OR AIR SICKNESS

* RUNNING EARS

* DIFFICULTY OR POUNDING HEART

* SUGAR OR ALBUMIN IN URINE

* FREQUENT TROUBLE SLEEPING

* CHRONIC OR FREQUENT COLDS

* HIGH OR LOW BLOOD PRESSURE

* VENEREAL DISEASE

* FREQUENT OR EXCESSIVE NIGHTMARES

* SEVERE TOOTH OR GUM TROUBLE

* CRAMPS IN FOUR LEGS

* RECENT GAIN OR LOSS OF WEIGHT

* DEPRESSION OR EXCESSIVE WORRY

* SINUSITIS

* STOMACH, LIVER, OR INTESTINAL TROUBLE

* ARTHRITIS OR RHEUMATISM

* LOSS OF MEMORY OR AMNESIA

* JAUNDICE

* GALL BLADDER TROUBLE OR GALL STONES

* BOILS, CARBUNCLES, OR OTHER SUPPURATION

* BED WETTING

* ALLERGY

* DIFFICULTY IN SWALLOWING

* LAMENESS

* NERVOUS TROUBLE OF ANY SORT

* ASTHMA

* BLEEDING GUMS

* LOSS OF ARM, LEG, FINGER, OR TOE

* ANY DRUG OR NARCOTIC HABIT

21. HAVE YOU EVER (Check each item)

* HAD HAY FEVER

* ATTEMPTED SUICIDE

* PAINFUL OR FREQUENT BOWEL MOVEMENTS

* EXCESSIVE DREAMING HABIT

* WORN ARTIFICIAL EYE

* BEEN IN A SLEEP WALKER

* HEMORRHOIDAL TENDENCIES

* WORN HEARING AIDS

* STUTTERED OR STAMMERED

* COUGHED UP BLOOD

* WORN A BRACE OR BACK SUPPORT

* BEEN TREATED FOR NERVOUS OR
  MINTAL ILLNESS

22. FEMALES ONLY - HAVE YOU EVER -

* COMPLETE THE FOLLOWING:

* BEEN PREGNANT

AGE AT ONSET OF MENSTRUATION

* HAD A VAGINAL DISCHARGE

INTERVAL BETWEEN PERIODS

* BEEN TREATED FOR A FEMALE DISORDER

DURATION OF PERIODS

* HAD PAINFUL MENSTRUATION

DATE OF LAST PERIOD

* HAD IRREGULAR MENSTRUATION

QUANTITY

23. HOW MANY TIMES HAVE YOU HAD THE
    SAME JOB IN THE

24. WHAT IS THE LONGEST PERIOD YOU
    HAVE HELD ANY OF THESE JOBS?

PAST THREE YEARS?

MONTHS

3

12

25. WHAT IS YOUR USUAL OCCUPATION?

26. AGE YOU (Check one)

Technical Translator


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

PE3

1.  HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REJECTED FOR MILITARY SERVICE?

2.  SENSITIVITY TO CHEMICALS, DUST, SUNLIGHT, ETC.

3.  INABILITY TO PERFORM CERTAIN MOTIONS.

4.  INABILITY TO TOLERATE CERTAIN MEDICINE.

5.  OTHER MEDICAL PROBLEMS (if yes, give reasons).

6.  HAVE YOU EVER WORKED WITH RADIOACTIVE SUBSTANCE?

7.  DO YOU HAVE DIFFICULTY WITH SCHOOL STUDIES OR TEACHING? (if yes, give details).

8.  HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REFUSED EMPLOYMENT BECAUSE OF YOUR PHYSICAL (if yes, state reason and give details).

9.  HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DENIED LIFE INSURANCE? (if yes, state reason and give details).

10. HAVE YOU HAD, OR HAVE YOU BEEN ADVISED TO HAVE ANY OPERATION? (if yes, describe and give name of doctor).

Hed small injury during war; in 1943. Operated in 1966 and 1965 on extemities. Was 25 years old at time of Wind amputation (left) in 1943.

11. HAVE YOU EVER ATTEMPTED TO TAKE YOUR LIFE (voluntary)? If yes, specify when, where, etc. and name of doctor, and complete address of hospital or facility

12. HAVE YOU HAD OR BEEN ADVISED TO HAVE PSYCHIATRIC OR MENTAL TREATMENT? (if yes, specify when, where, and give details)

13. NAME ALL DOCTORS OR CLINICS OR CHRISTIAN SCIENCE PRACTITIONERS SEEN THE PAST YEAR? (if yes, give complete address of doctor, hospital, clinic, and details)

14. HAVE YOU TREATED YOURSELF FOR ILLNESSES OTHER THAN MINOR COLDS? (2 yes, which illnesses)

15. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN REJECTED FOR MILITARY SERVICE BECAUSE OF PSYCHOLOGICAL OR OTHER REASONS? (if yes, give date and reason for rejection)

16. HAVE YOU EVER BEEN DISCHARGED FROM MILITARY SERVICE BECAUSE OF PHYSICAL OR MENTAL OR OTHER REASONS? (if yes, give date, reason, and type of discharge, whether honorable other than honorable, for conditions or circumstances)

Discharged from military service in Soviet Army in 1966, due to combat disability.

17. HAVE YOU EVER RECEIVED OR THERE PENDING, NOW OR APPLIED FOR, OR DO YOU INTEND TO APPLY FOR PENSION OR COMPENSATION FOR EXISTING DISABILITIES? (if yes, complete what kind granted by whom, and state amount received, etc.)

I CERTIFY THAT I HAVE READ OR HEARD THE FOREGOING INFORMATION SUPPLIED BY ME AND THAT IT IS TRUE AND COMPLETE TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE. ALL CLINICS MENTIONED ABOVE TO FURNISH THE GOVERNMENT A COMPLETE TRANSCRIPT OF MY MEDICAL RECORD FOR PURPOSES OF PROCESSING MY APPLICATION FOR THE ENTITLEMENT OF BENEFITS.

TYPE OR PRINTED NAME OF EXAMINEE

*Pimonov, Ivan*

SIGNATURE

*Ivan Ausin*

ALL PERTINENT DATA PHYSICIAN'S SUMMARY AND ELABORATION OF ALL PERTINENT DATA Physician also comments on all pertinent matters in some detail in closure to:

In excellent health. He has a past history of shell injury which is non-disabling.

TYPE OR PRINTED NAME OF PHYSICIAN OR EXAMINER

*HAROLD GABEL, MD*

DATE 7/4/64

SIGNATURE

*Harvey Zeleznik*

U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1953 O-253193


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

APPROVED FOR RELEASE 1993
CIA HISTORICAL-REVIEW PROGRAM

PERSONAL HISTORY STATEMENT 17-13 CATE (Fill in)
July 5, 1964

INSTRUCTIONS

1. Answer all questions completely or check appropriate box. If question is not applicable write "NA". Write "Co- know" only if you do not know the answer and it cannot be obtained from personal records. Use blank space at end of form for extra details on any question for which you have insufficient space.

2. Type, print or write carefully; illegible or incomplete forms will not receive consideration.

3. Consider your answers carefully. Your signature at the end of this form will certify to their correctness. Careful completion of all applicable questions will permit review of your qualifications to the best advantage.

SECTION I GENERAL PERSONAL AND PHYSICAL DATA

1. NAME (Last. First, Middle) 2. AGE 3. SEX
   ABRON RTENG
   46 MALE FEMALE

4. HEIGHT 5. WEIGHT 6. COLOR OF EYES 7. COLOR OF HAIR 8. TYPE COMPLEXION 9. TYPE BUILD
   6'00" 155# blue brown light heavy


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

Pages 2-13 all deleted.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

- 16 -

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)