# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MHFNO: 94-5671109 SENSIND: PAGE: 1

// SECRET FRP: , , , , , , , , , ,

STAFF

CONF: EUR/BNBCI INFO: DOOPS, EUDORECORD, EUR/BN, MDSX, ODPD, PCS/CL,
FILE, C/PCS, PCS/ID (3/P)

94 5671109 ASR PAGE 001

TOT: 021535Z MAR 94 DIRECTOR 527588

SECRET

STAFF 021534Z DIRECTOR 527588

TO: LONDON.

FROM: EUR/BNBCI INFO IMS/IRO

SLUGS: WNINTEL

SUBJECT: DOCUMENT RELEASE

REF: MEMO A/900, 11 FEB 94

TEXT:

1. ACTION REQUESTED: NONE. FOR THE RECORD: HQS
   RECEIVED REF MEMO ADDRESSED TO IMS/IRO FROM SIS ON 14 FEBRUARY.
   TEXT OF MEMO AND ATTACHMENT FOLLOWS:

2. WE MET ON 9 SEPTEMBER LAST YEAR TO CONSIDER THE
   RELEASE OF VARIOUS DOCUMENTS. I ATTACH A PAPER WHICH SETS OUT
   THE POSITION OF MY SERVICE ON THE ELEVEN DOCUMENTS WE LOOKED AT.
   PLEASE LET ME KNOW IF OTHER SIMILAR DOCUMENTS COME TO YOUR
   ATTENTION.

ATTACHMENT:

DOCUMENTS REFERRED TO BRITISH GOVERNMENT

A. LETTER FROM BRITISH EMBASSY, MOSCOW TO FOREIGN OFFICE
DATED 20 JULY 1964

NO SIS OBJECTION TO RELEASE. THE FCO ALSO HAVE NO
OBJECTION, BUT HAVE ASKED THAT THE DOCUMENT SHOULD NOT
BE RELEASED UNTIL 1 JANUARY 1995, TO COMPLY WITH THE
BRITISH 30 YEAR RULE.

*B. <WARREN COMMISSION>LETTER TO CIA DATED 20 AUGUST 1964

WE NOTE THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN RELEASED, BUT THIS CAUSES
US NO PROBLEM IN VIEW OF OUR DECISION ON A, ABOVE.

C. ITEM RELATED TO B ABOVE BEARING REFERENCE ΧΑΑΖ-22429

COMMENT AS FOR B ABOVE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MHFNO: 94-5671109                                          SECRET                                                        PAGE: 2

D. 'TRANSLATION OF SERGIEVSKY'S PENCIL NOTE'

COMMENT AS FOR B ABOVE.

E. LETTER NO 8761 FROM SIS STATION WASHINGTON TO CIA
DATED 14 NOVEMBER 1974

WE REQUEST THAT THIS SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED.

F. LETTER NO 8805 FROM SIS STATION WASHINGTON TO CIA
DATED 30 DECEMBER 1974

WE REQUEST THAT THIS SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED.

G. LETTER NO 8809 FROM SIS STATION WASHINGTON TO CIA
DATED 31 DECEMBER 1974

WE REQUEST THAT THIS SHOULD NOT BE RELEASED.

H. MEMO FROM ANGLETON, CIA TO DIRECTOR FBI OF 26 NOVEMBER
1963

WE NOTE THAT THIS HAS ALREADY BEEN RELEASED. THE
BRITISH INFORMATION CONCERNS THE SECURITY SERVICE WHO
HAVE BEEN INFORMED.

I. CIA TELEX TO THE WHITE HOUSE DATED 28 NOVEMBER 1963

COMMENT AS FOR H, ABOVE.

J. CIA MEMO DATED 25 MARCH 1970

COMMENT AS FOR H, ABOVE.

K. MEMO FROM ANGLETON TO FBI DATED 27 JANUARY 1964

COMMENT AS FOR H, ABOVE.

3. FILE: 011-002-053. DECL OADR DRV HUM 4-82.>
   ORIG: EUR/BNBCI (LEWIS, 39472); AUTH: DC/EUR/BN (BROWN); COORD:
   EUR/BNBCI (INCE); REL: C/EUR/BN (RAHM). CL BY 284781.
   END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)