# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, Task Force W

FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE.

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

Operational/CYROSE/AMCUTLEF
AMCUTLER-1 Progress Report for November and December 1962.

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: For your information.

Reference: UFCA-6637, dated 23 November 1962.

Developments:

1. AMCUTLFR-1's efforts during the reporting period were directed toward: (a) supporting the AMFAUNA operation; and (b) developing new KUTUBE operations.

2. In support of the AMFAUNA operation, he has been investigating AMFAUNA-4, for which purpose he has interviewed seven Masons in Miami who presumably should have known AMFAUNA-4 but did not, and two individuals in New York who did know him. (See UFCA-7118.)

3. AMCUTLER-1 has also reported a potential courier channel to AMFAUNA-1, using:

Gonzalo ABELEM Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca: 1915
Residence: 13 N.E. Biscayne Blvd, Miami, Fla.
Occupation: Employee of Brazilian Consulate

and his brother

Manuel ABELEM Martin
Brazilian citizen
Born ca. 1909
Residence: Havana, Cuba.
Occupation: Officer of Brazilian Embassy, Havana

Once a month a pouch passes between the Brazilian Consulate in Miami and the Embassy in Havana, and AMCUTLER-1 has made use of it to send letters for posting in Havana to AMCUTLER-2. The two ABELEM brothers are personal friends of AMCUTLER-1 and AMCUTLER-2 but AMCUTLEP-1 does not

Distribution:

*   Headquarters

(Continued)

DATE TYPED
9 Jan. 63

DATE DISPATCHED
JAN 1963

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-7171

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

19-6-74/3

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

# 09593

![card reproduction]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

**CLASSIFICATION** S.E.C.R.E.T DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER UFGA-7171

believe that they would yet be willing to carry or send any obvious espionage material. He does believe that they would be willing to curry canned good to AMCUTLER-2, and this is being explored, with the idea of concealing money, maps, etc. in the tin cans.

4. For the purpose of trying to develop new KUTUBE operations, AMCUTLER-1 has been following up leads given him by his case officer. He has interviewed

CONTACT Sub. of 201-293865

Carlos Manuel CACERES-Blay
Former manager Motel Las Cuevas, Trinidad Residence 1122 S.W. 16th Ave. Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained two intelligence reports; and

Evelio CRUZ
Born Candelaria, Cuba Residence 1545 S.W. 6th St., Apt. 4, Miami, Fla.

from whom he obtained operational information on the Esquivel Caves, Soroa Zone, termino municipal of Candelaria, Pinar del Rio. CRUZ passed AMCUTLER-1 to

Luis HERNANDEZ aka "El Terrible"
Residence 665 N.E. 24th St., Apt. 8, Miami, Fla.

who gave additional information on the caves which, he said, are the property of his brother-in-law

CIT: CUBA

Dioninio BUGARTE
Sixto BUGARTE

-RE. INFO. ON SUB'S PROPERTY IN CUBA

and

Anita PERRASTE' Betancourt - Candelaria, Pinar del Rio, Cuba

who still lives in the area.

5. AMCUTLER-1 reported that his friend "Pepe" GONZALEZ whose brother-in-law now resident in Spain is a son of

Dr. Carlos PEDEMONTE
Head of Cartographic Office of INRA
Sub's SCN. IS CONTACT of sub. of 201 293865

has received word that PEDEMONTE is looking for a way to leave Cuba. AMCUTLER-1 is trying to develop additional information on PEDEMONTE situation from GONZALEZ. Other than press clippings, the only JMWAVE trice on PEDEMONTE is contained in HKH-02664 of 15 April 1960.

6. On 22 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been invited by one

"Chique" PRONTES CIT: Cuba
Cuban citizen CONTACT sub of 201-293865
Resident Puerto Rico 1 JAN 63

to join a maritime expedition aimed against tanker traffic on the south coast of Cuba, with the further objective of seizing a Cuban frigate with the cooperation of its captain. Details were sent to Headquarters in WAVE-2749 of 22 December, in the hope that it might be possible to make a tentative identification of the naval officer involved.

7. On 25 December 1962 AMCUTLER-1 reported that he had been informed the day before by

Pedro Luis DIA Lanz CIT: Cuba
CONTACT Sub. of 201-293865

that two individuals named


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-7171

301-342578 [Reinaldo LOPEZ Lime 7201-342588

Apr 719750

6FR CIT. CUBA Enrique CEIJAS 7201-288950

had just approached him with the offer to sell him some weapons allegedly belonging to KUBARK which were stored on an unidentified key and valued at several thousand dollars. LOPEZ and CEIJAS told DIAZ that an armed raid on the key would have to be simulated so that cuspicion would not fall on them, and that the raid would have to be pulled off on eithen the night of 25 December or 31 December when one ce the other of the men would be on guard duty at the key. DIAZ/had turned down the offer. JHWAVE file checks showed that the two men were indeed of interest to KUBARK, and that AMTABBY Underwater Demolition Team was possibly involved. Appropriate defensive measures ware immediately taken.

Sub. of 201-293865 with EffER TO SELL him CWEAPONS BELONGING TO U.S GOU. Agency..

Production:

8. The following reports were disseminated during the period:

UFG-1955 "Reaction to Current Crisis within Cuba"

UFG-2098 "Possible Military Use of Caves near Trinidad, Las Villas"

UFG-2143 "Identification of Two Cavos near Trinidad, Las Villas Which Could be Used for Military Purposes"

UFGT-2823 "Passenger Manifests for Flights to & From Cuba".

Costs:

9. The following expenses were incurred during the period on behalf of the operation:

Two months' salary $500.00

Use of POV 80.00

Meeting expenses 10.22

$546.22

Future Plans

10. No change.

END OF DISPATCH

![signature card reproductions]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)