# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

DISPATCH NO. CHADA-186:
22

TO: Chief, KRA

FROM: Senior Representative, (New Delhi)

SUBJECT: GENERAL Operational/INTEL
SPECIFIC (PA)LIPPER - Transmittal of Reports
02

1. Transmitted herewith are copies of THERIAULT reports and notes as listed below. Not included are carbon copies of the initial report (plans undated) and the report covering the period 28 December - 14 January as the third copy was not made.

2. THERIAULT requested that, if possible, a set of his report be made available to him on his return to facilitate preparation of a master report on overall findings and impressions.

Thomas W. LIND

Enclosures Under separate cover (Pouched 7 May 1955)

14 Jan - 23 Jan 4 - 7 Mar
25 Jan - 30 Jan 8 Mar - 16 Mar
30 Jan - 8 Feb 18 Mar - 30 Mar
9 Feb - 17 Feb Interview with U.S. HEAR
18 Feb (1 pp) 8 Apr - 12 Apr
20 Feb - 4 Mar Notebook

Distribution:
Orig & 4 - Hq
9 May 55 2 - Files

Hereto from Project (PA) FLIPPER

Fold: #3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

14 May 1955

: Preliminary Debriefing of Anita THERIAULT

: 13 May 1955, 2030-2130.

1. Prior to my departure for New York to handle the preliminary debriefing of THERIAULT, I discussed the following subjects with CNEA-5:

1) In view of the fact that THERIAULT's expenses on her recent trip to India have been greater than was anticipated, 1,000 additional funds have or are to be shortly deposited to her bank. This will be done by sterile check. It is to be accounted for under the terms of the original contract.

2) CNEA-5 suggested that I take her reports up with me for possible annotation and expansion. Upon examination on 14 May, this appears unfeasible in view of the fact that there are CIA commo indicators and RI symbols attached directly to the reports.

3) CNEA-5 suggested that I pursue with THERIAULT the possibility of developing an interest in Krishna Menon, utilizing a cleared publisher who could request Menon to write a book. This approach to be based on Menon's acute susceptability to flattery.

4) CNEA-5 suggested that THERIAULT be asked to review the areas of her influence in order to lay the groundwork for an official invitation to visit this country being extended to the Prime Minister in the future. He suggested Sen. George and Chester Bowles as possible points of departure.

5) THERIAULT is to be informed that her reports have been of immeasurable assistance to the Ambassador and to the U.S. Government vis-a-vis policy planning for India.

6) THERIAULT is to be asked to come to Washington for a day or so in the very near future for further debriefing. This is to be arranged at her convenience.

7) In view of the fact that THERIAULT has been unwitting of the Agency's role in sponsoring her trip, I suggested that I now make her witting in *terms* of the *security* involved. It seemed advisable to me since it is likely that there will be future contacts with THERIAULT. CNEA-5 agreed to this.

8) THERIAULT is to be advised that she is at liberty to discuss any and all aspects of her trip with anybody with the exception of the Agency's role in sponsoring it.

SECRET

Removed from Project (PA)FLIPPER
CS Classification: NONE
JOB #66-668/59
Box: 5
Folder #


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

- 2 -

9) In view of the vast amount of work that must be done, I suggested that I plan to spend two days - 16 and 17 May - if it becomes necessary. On previous trips to discuss ESTALT's mission with her, I found that she frequently had other commitments which made it difficult to cover adequately the material which I had amassed. If this is the case on this trip, I should prefer not to press her. One day's latitude seems the better part of wisdom. CILA-5 agreed. We shall see, however.

10) In the event that it becomes necessary to reach me, I suggest that my wife be asked to get in touch with me, (Jackson 7-7018) and that I be asked simply to call my office. I will then call on the sterile phone. For the record, my telephone number in New York is CELHAM 8-2530.

![signature of Bertram Cooper]

Bertram Cooper

03


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

General Comments.

1.  I have not talked with many Ford Foundation people and many TCI people. As impressed by their quality. They are working hard and are doing it in a self-effacing manner. I have not heard one criticism of them from anybody. There are a few ends, of cour. I have not yet met them. They are here "to help India carry out her projects and her ideas" as one put it, and they seem to do not only democratically but with a very real warmth and sympathy yet they stay quietly in the background and take none of the credit. But I feel more strongly each week I am here that the work is solid and is having tremendously good effect in relieving tension and hostility between the two countries. The results of the actual work are apparent now and hope has recently increased among Indians, also their self-confidence. When confidence increases, sensitiveness decreases, of course.

2.  From all I have picked up, the feeling is widespread that Ambassador Allen did a good job out here. As one put it, "he was exactly right for the period he was here, just as Bowles was right for the special problems of his two years." Both Indian and Americans highly raise both men.

3.  We have a prize in Evelyn Hersey and somebody should thank God every night that she is here. She and her Diner are the most loved Americans in north India, certainly. Evelyn Hersey is known throughout India. She was Social Welfare attached at the Embassy beginning I think in 1943. The only one attached to any embassy anywhere, I understand. Her work was to interpret the social changes taking place in India, to become aware of the needs and problems and how these needs and problems were being met, and to offer her services and her experience whenever or wherever it was asked for. When the administration changed, she was dismissed by Republican on the grounds that this was a new idea; nobody else had ever done such a thing, that is no other foreign service and so why should the U.S. act. At Mr. Allens urgent insistence, she was sent back, this time under the aegis of TCI. She is, however, doing the same job. Her influence is very wide; she is admired and loved by literally thousands of Indians from the high echelons down to the sweepers and other horijans. She is called on for advice in numerous fields and by very high officials. She works behind the scenes and feels that her work would be ruined were she given credit for what she has actually done. She is vivid and full of life and one would hardly call her self effacing, and yet her work is done almost anonymously. I have been around her enough to see how wide her circle of Indian friends is; and how constantly and continuously they stream through her house. She goes all over India. Has travelled much more than 100 thousand miles. She says in recent months she has felt absolutely no antagonism toward her as an American. She is shrewd, has sharp eyes and ears; is knowledgable politically is nobody's fool; is strongly anti communist, is warmhearted and intellectually flexible. One of the best minds I have run into since coming out.

4.  I wish we had five times the people in TCI. They carefully avoid politics. I think it is wise.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

8. 
Genera. Joamente. (continued.)

AH (NODES 1865
22

5. A very good project has recently bee: Launched. It is criled The Delhi fraining and orientation Contro for Foreign Technici: ne in India. This is the second time it has been held, I think. It begins today, Jan. 24. Contimes for two weeks. (The first one worked out a fine short bibliography on India, and a little brochure on "Foods available in North India.) This second course covera the Indian village, with visits out to villages, Indian art, prchitecture, dance; Indian history, religion, Ielam in India, other religions and philosophies; Indian family life and customs, health problems and resuroca, educational probiens, urban problems; Fural unemployment and aid, the role of foreign sid in India, discussion of the Five year Plan.

It is the kind of briefing that every foreigner coming to Indid, showed have. It is open to all of then We wore invited simply es queste and shali attend many of the meetings. Piins are shown; trips to art galleries and museums eto. Miss Hersey hat hed much to do with this; also Dr. Douglas Esminger. And probably others, too. Indians will do most of the briefing.

6. I shall write later about the Five Year Plan. Am still studying it. Shall have a number of interviews with the plannere, or with a few of them. Shall also go cut on several of the projects. This secas important to me for social changes, and how they are made brood politics. The political picture on cert-inly not be understood if the cultural and social pictures are not studied and analysed carefully.

We are enclosing e few excerpte or spomnes made by Mr. Nehru, dr. Menon, and ur. Uheber this past week at the Congress Party bin gither 103.

![photo of a congress party meeting]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

Odds and Ends of Information;

AH(NODA) 1865
22

1.  My Pick told me that the Communists are organising the domestic corkers of New Delhi. Lest weak there was a conting of oyaba at India Gate called together for this jur 200. The week bef ro the bearera (cr the sweepere) were called together. The Comunista are going about it in obrood way making very reasonable demande, such as a half day off ech wock, a rise of perhaps 4 or & rupees a sonth in wages. A Couminist in every home will really be something

Heyo there is little eativity of Congress party of Socialdet party among Istor groups. The work is being done by Confurists. They, somehow, have the money to do thes organisational work while there is little money anons regular corkers due to weakness of industry, small number and low wage of the workere, He is troubled over lack of activity among the desperrtic groups in inbor circles. Saya he has been here chiy 3 months and ennnot da yet see the picture clearly.

2.  The State Dept.'s coldness about permitting files to viedt the Firmen in China give the U. S. a very bad press out here. It was very clover strategy on the part of China, it une bed strategy on our part to appear callous to the feelings of ho families. Family affection runs deep out here. It is another one of our many small blunders which conchow loom co largo when viewed by the hundreds of millions out here. If, conchow, overybody could count up to ten before opoaking, and thick not how China is going to take it but how the catiro area of asia will repot. Those frailles could have been told quietly end personelly that if they wanted to go they would not be protested by an American passport, they could even have been secretly urged not to go, but the blatant press release. Forgive ey cditorialising, I am sure I am not supposed to do it, cao 10 very close here to the mind and heart of Asia and cannot halg Doing rware of these reactions of the peuple. Anyone who loves the U. S. cannot help but wish that our spolkesan voald speak core toftly and more thotfully. A traggart or tally to dislike 17 all husen beings. To have strength is fine, to trendich that etrength offends.

3.  The Times of India (Jan, 26) has excellent editorial on the cocialistic society good as outlined by ichra and Congress Party leaders. Does Avadi mark a rovolutionary shift in Corces polio

All that it meant was an acknovicigaent of the Umaveasingl important role of the public sector in the national cezay a role that was already defined with greater precision i industrial policy resolution. There was nothing to indicate that there would be any new amaroachment on the sphere reserved to private enterprise, and the fears expressed cutside the Congres on that score were, therefore, unjustified. Feither tes thera any justification for the apprehension that the neu chiestiva meant a radical departure from the servolan 14eal.

mmttcrca really uns not the label that Was given the 302, tat the extent to which in actual practice it could help in the production of greater wealth and in its are emitatio distritation... What was significant ... Eas that it should


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

odda and ende of socorant on (cont.)

Att(NCOA) 1865

have been compelled at this stage to cock a more popular label for its economic and social policies. If this commitment is to be more than a design to steal the opponents electoral thunder, the Congress Governments at the Centre and in the states have immediately to set about the task of translating the new principles into policies. The only way to make the policy of Congress Governments accord with Congress principles is self criticism and yet there were responsible Congressmen at Avadi who saw danger even in the condemnation of malpractices by Congress.

The road to full employment -- for which the Congress has for the first time laid down a time-limit -- is by no means easy. It demands a complete renovation of life in the countryside on the one hand and speedy industrialisation making the country as self- sufficient as possible on the other. (etc.)

Digest of Mr. Deshmukh's speech on Jan, 24th.

He spoke of the unsuitability of totalitarianism in the democratic Republic of India and the indoquacy of capitalism, stating that there was left only a Socialistic approach open to the country.

He states that the acceptance of the Socialistic society as ideal meant the nationalisation of institutions that could be immediately nationalised with advantage. The presumption in so doing, said Mr. Deshmukh, was that socialised production would be more profitable. He, however, cautioned that if experience belied that view, the stop might have to be retraced.

He stated that a Socialistic ideal which received the support of the people could achieve the two objectives of increasing national income and enhancing individual divided.

He stated that India had established economic stability though at a rather low level of prosperity during the first Plan period. He said the credit for the achievements went not merely to economic management and planning but included other factors, among them, assistance from friendly nations. The United States, he said, had contributed the largest share of foreign aid.

Removed from Project (PA) FLIPPER
CS Classification: NONE
JOB 066-668784
Boxu 5 Fold 3

Miss Gindi and Mr. Hodan (private secretary of Mrs. Gandhi's and reception clerk at Prime Minister's House) over a cozy cup of tea in their quarters told the following story;

While in China, at first big banquet given then, Mr. Nehru and his daughter (and others) were served tiny baby live mice dipped in honey. Mrs. Gandhi (his daughter) was so shocked that she shrieked at the sight and turned away. None of them could eat the delicacy. It was not ever served again to them while they were in China.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)