14-00000
104-10119-10367
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

20 February 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD:

SUBJECT: VAN HET REVE, Karel - #839052

REFS; Attached Clippings from the NEW YORK TIMES dtd 11 Jan 1970 and NEWSWEEK dtd 12 Jan 1970

1. References reported that Subject, founder of the Alexander Herzen Foundation in Amsterdam, is publishing the writings of Soviet dissenters; notably Andrei AMALRIK, Andrei SAKHAROV, Pavel LITVINOV and Anatoly T. MARCHENKO.

2. Subject was granted a POA in June 1969 for use as an informant by SB/PO/M, W. Europe, under Project AEEGGHEAD.

Sarah K. Hall
SRS/OS

Atts. Refs.

![handwritten notes]

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# NEW YORK TEES

✓ 11 January 1970

# New Dutch Group Is Publishing Writings of Soviet Dissenters

By HENRY RAYMONT

A group of West European, virt waters of scholars have set up a non- obsessive fear thu character profit organization, the Alex- sentative said. "They ized the Stolen era," the re٢٢٠ arder Herzen Foundation in that there is nothing in Sowiet Amsterdam disseminate law to prevent them from pub- works by dissident Soviet lishing abroad and they insist w.iters. on exercising their rights."

The purpose is to protect the zen Foundation from some of What differentiates the Her- author's name against piracy, the émigré presses that publish, political exploitation, careless manuscripts smuggled out of Hanslations and other compli- the Soviet Union, he main- cations that have often marked! tained, is that it has the ap- the publication in the West of proval of the authors to act manuscripts smuggled out of as their agent abroad.

the Soviet Union.

With the increasing interest

in Soviet dissent, scores of

Western publishers in recent,

months have turned to the

foundation for book rights to

such works as Andrei Amale)

riok's "Will the U.S.S.R. Sur-

vive Until 1984?", Anatoly T.

Marchenko's "My Testimony,"

and essays hy Pavei Litvinov,

grandeca of Maxim Litvinov,

Soviet Foreign Minister under

Stalin.

Established in 1968

The foundation was estab

lished in 1968 by Dr. Karel van

het frie became friendly with

literate at the University

Leyden, with support from a

of

group of Dutch businessmen.

respondent for a Dutch news-
While he was Moscow cor-

paper in 1967 and 1968, Dr. van

het Reve became friendly with

several writers who asked to

be helped in getting their

books published in the West.

Though the translations re-

ceived wide notice in the West-

After he returned to Amster-

ern press, little was known dam in 1968, Dr. van het Reve

about the foundation until one was joined by Dr. Jan Besemer.

of its representatives came here another Russian literature pro-

last week to explain its role fessor, who was also a news-

to United States publishers. paper correspondent in Mos-

"We received our inspiration cow, and Peter Reddaway, a

from the enlightened efforts of lecturer at the London School

Alexander Herzen to defy to- of Economics. One of the in-

talitarian methods against Rus- stitute's principal advisers is

sian authors by publisiring them Max Hayward, a translator of

in the West and sending their Russian literature.

books back through a literary The foundation's procédure

underground, the representa is to publish a manuscript in

tive, who asked not to be iden-Tits original Russian text, there-

tified, said in an interview. by insuring copyright, before

offering it to publishers in

Western Europe and the Unit-

Herzen Had a Journal ed States.

Herzen, an aristocratic litera- Since it placed its first book

teur and father of Russian al in the West, Mr. Litvinov's

socialism, in 1857 started a periodical, Koiokol (The Bell). "Dear Comrade" (published

in London to publicize his ideas here by Pitman), the organiza-

and those of other dissidents tion has supervised transla-

hanned by Tsarist autocracy. tions and collected royalties

The journal established a long for the authors. It is now pre-

tradition of Russian publishing paring several test cases to de-

in exile that over the years has termine whether the authors

included such authors as Lenin, can be paid through official ac-

Gorky, Trotsky and Pasternal:, counts in the Soviet State

"The new generation of So- Bank.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# 12 January 1970

## Underground Press

By normal city-desk standards, Karel van het Reve wasn't much of a news-hound in his days as Moscow correspondent for the Dutch daily Het Parool. "I kept forgetting to ask names and ages," he recalls. But then, van het Reve was really a scholar of Russian literature who had only signed on with the newspaper as a way of spending a year or so in the Soviet Union. And now, back at his lecture at Leyden University, the mild-man-nered, 48-year-old ex-reporter is scoop-ing the world by breaking the story of a vocal liberal opposition movement in Russia. Through a foundation named after Aleksandr Herzen, the nineteenth-century Russian writer who printed censored Russian manuscripts abroad, van het Reve has begun releasing a flood of underground political documents and memoirs for publication in the West.

Acting only as agent and translator, van het Reve made headlines with the bitter, apocalyptic pamphlet "Will the U.S.S.R. Survive Until 1984?" by youthful historian Andrei Amalrik, which appeared in the fall issue of the British quarterly Survey. And last week, van het Reve gave Newsweek's Robert J. Korengold an exclusive look at his latest triumph over Soviet censorship: a 400-page dossier on the closed-door trial of four Russian dissi-dents-Yuri Galanskov, Aleksandr Ginzburg, Aleksei Dobrovolsky and Vera Lastikova-that took place in Moscow's grim Kolomthovka Street courthouse in early 1968.

Van het Reve, as it happens, "covered" that trial himself, shivering with the rest of Moscow's foreign press corps in subzero cold on the street outside the court. The charges were, in essence, publicity in the production of a "white book" of allegedly anti-Soviet documents concerning the 1966 trial of writers Yuli Daniel and Andrei Sinyavsky plus alleged collusion with NTS, a counter-revolutionary Russian émigré group in Frankfurt, Germany. Friends of the accused smuggled out thumbnail accounts of each day's proceedings, and when the trial ended, van het Reve, through his friendship with one of the self-appointed court recorders, came into possession of the 120 different manuscripts which make up the book that Longmans Green will publish in Britain later this year.

Time: Though much of the material is technical, courageous voices like that of Ginzburg bring the combative atmosphere of the trial to life. "I thought and I continue to think now," he declared to the judge, "that if I don't agree with something I should express my disagreement openly. . . . I know that you will convict me because not one person charged under Article 70 [anti-Soviet activity] has ever been acquitted. I will go off to the camp calmly to serve my time."

Van het Reve naturally isn't eager to reveal how he smuggled out this mass of documentation. "Let's just say I managed," he smiles. Probably through the time-honored methods of the plain brown envelope and the luggage of departing foreigners, he and the Herzen Foundation, which ironically occupies the former headquarters of the Dutch Communist Party in Amsterdam, have "managed" to receive not only the Amalrik pamphlet and the Ginzburg trial records, but a steady flow of other anti-regime works including a sharp attack on Soviet politics by Andrei Sakharov, the noted nuclear physicist, and a factual account of life in the U.S.S.R.'s labor camps by Anatoly Marchenko, who is still serving time for "agitation."

A lapsed Stalinist turned democrat, van het Reve insists that the Herzen Foundation is apolitical. "Our only aim is to give these people a chance to publish and that's all," he says. And if he can keep his foundation clear of damaging outside support and free of any profit motive, as it now is, then he will have gone a long way toward insuring the immediate and effective distribution of Russian social criticism abroad.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)