# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

To: Chief, Task Force W

From: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

Subject: Operational/GYROSE
Review and Analysis of AMFAUNA Operation

Action Required:

1. Traces on AMFAUNAs 2 through 23, identified in Attachment E. POAS on AMFAUNAS 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19.

2. Ascertain whether AMFAUNA-3 is of operational interest to ODIBEX (see paragraph 15b).

3. Forward evaluations of documentary intelligence provided by AMFAUNA-4 (see paragraph 56).

Summary

4. AMFAUNA-1 is a Cuban national who was recruited and trained in the United States and returned legally to Cuba(in March 1961 to serve as resident agent in Havana.) Since then he has built a net (of over twenty sub-agents) and has sent back 140 S/W messages, from which upwards of fifty intelligence disseminations have been made. He is highly motivated for his work and under effective control by JMWAVE. The quality of his production is, for the most part, very good and improving although he is at times distracted by an understandable interest in para-military operations. Operationally he is very skillful; however, he has been known to take unnecessary risks. There is no reason to think that he is under hostile control nor that the operation is likely in the future to be turned against us. There is, however, the real risk that he may one day fall into a G-2 trap baited with the Escambray guerrillas. If so, this will be due to the fact that contact with the guerrillas was his first assignment and, although he has been re- directed to intelligence collection, he sometimes seems to feel that he has failed in his primary mission. This, plus the fact that he evidently believes that the end is now very close, is apt to make him vulnerable to an appeal from the "heroes of the Escambray"

Present Status of the Operation - Modus Operandi:

5. There is considerable evidence that AMFAUNA-1 is extraordinarily

Attachments: A-D, Incl Nsm Charts A,B,C,D h/w.
Attch. E - Identities USC (AMFAUNAS 2-23)
Attch. F - Identities,

Distribution: Att. 4NSM

Headquarters

SECRET

CS COPY

DATE TYPED
11 July 1962

DATE DISPATCHED
Jul 23 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-4703

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
19-6-50/3

201-291230

#8904

![APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

skillful in the practice of security. He has built a false identity which he uses wherever possible in his operational contacts, he is usually selective and cautious in his choice of collaborators, he takes pains to check on the security of his sub-agents, and he uses a system of cutouts for much of his work.

6. Some of AMFAUNA-1's older collaborators know him by true name, but wherever possible he introduces himself to new contacts by the name of "Julse ROJO" Evidently he is now living the part of (Julio 07 ROJO) to such an extent that he has in effect a double identity. In one of his S/W messages he asked that the widow of AMCUSP-1 be warned not to reveal that ("Julio") is in Cuba. Since AMFAUNA-1 is in Cuba legally, and all his family and friends know it, this can only mean that she should not reveal that AMFAUNA-1 and ("Julio ROJO") are identical. 201-291230

7. In recruiting sub-agents, AMFAUNA-1 relies primarily on his own judgment and intuition. If he approves of a person, he will recruit him. However, he has shown himself to be very cautious in granting his approval. He has reported two persons whom he does not completely trust because, while otherwise well qualified, they drink too much and are indiscreet. For two other examples, AMBOA-1 and LITAU-5 approached him separately and revealed their relationship with KUBARK, hoping to collaborate with him; AMFAUNA-1 treated them both with reserve while he checked them out with JMWAVE. He has submitted the names of other contacts for checking. In the case of AMFAUNA-4, whom he recruited without prior checking because time did not permit it, he put his misgivings in writing: "Right away AMFAUNA-1 arranged for a personal interview, taking utmost precautions, since we have had sad previous experiences with members of CASTRO's armed forces."

8. Once he has recruited a sub-agent, AMFAUNA-1 manages to keep an independent eye on the former's security. On more than one occasion he has reported that one of his sub-agents is under G-2 surveillance, and that for the time being he is staying away from him.

9. In general AMFAUNA-1 seems to trust in the efficiency of his security precautions. On 25 February 1962 he reported that Identity 1 had been caught, but that he was in no danger because he had been compartmented from her. This compartmentation is achieved by the use of five cutouts: AMFAUNA-2, AMFAUNA-3, AMFAUNA, AMBOA-1, and AMFAUNA 5, who maintain contact for AMFAUNA-1 with most if not all of his sub-agents. Chart A, which shows AMFAUNA-1 in direct contact with AMFAUNAS 7 through 13, may be in error on this point. It would be more in keeping with AMFAUNA-1's known modus operandi for him to have cutouts between himself and these sub-agents. If there is a cutout or cutouts here, their identity is not yet known. There may also be an unreported cutout between AMFAUNA-1 and AMFAUNA-4.

10. Except for AMFAUNA, all the above-mentioned cutouts are women. Two of his support agents, including his mail drop, are also women. AMFAUNA-1 has not been explicit on this point, but it is believed that he shares his favors between them. If so, he has the best of cover for his relations with them. It also clarifies the otherwise puzzling picture of a legal resident of Cuba sleeping in a different bed each night. This practice must certainly reduce the possibility that the G-2 will pick him up for routine questioning.

i
Communications:

11. The bulk of AMFAUNA-1's communications come via S/W. His messages to JMWAVE are sent to accommodation addresses serviced by AMPAN-2 and AMCUTLER-1. JMWAVE's messages to him are addressed to AMFAUNA-14. AMFAUNA-1 can also use(diplomatic couriers) for sending documents and other material unsuitable for S/W. He has a personal contact with two of the officers (of the Spanish Embassy who either bring it to the JMWAVE area and mail it to AMCUTLER-1, or carry it

> [Figure] A photograph shows a faded stamp on a document, indicating an aperture card reproduction.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CONTINUATION OP DISPATCH

SECRET UFGA-4703

second via AMFAUNA-14.

12. The courier system can also work in the other direction. AMFAUNA-1 has been supplied with S/W materials for his own use by way of the (Spanish Embassy) and for the use of AMRIPE-1 and AMRAVEL-1 by way of the (Argentine Embassy).

13. A third communications channel exists in the weekly telephone conversations (between) AMCUTLER-1 and his wife AMFAUNA-2. It is useful for passing signals already prearranged by S/W, and for confirming that AMFAUNA-1 Is still at liberty. If he is ever arrested, the news will probably come first by this means.

Finances:

14. Expenses of the operation are $500 per month. The money is given monthly to Identity-3 or Identity-4 in the JMWAVE area. Identity-3, upon receipt of the dollars, notifies identity-l in Havana who in turn pays Cuban pesos to AMFAUNA-1. Identity-4 follows the same procedure with Identity-2. AMFAUNA-1 confirms receipt of this money by S/W.

Sub-agents:

15. Following is a description of the sub-agents in the AMFAUNA net, including AMCOG-2 and AMBOA-1 who, although they have their own independent connections to JMWAVE, have to some extent joined forces with AMFAUNA-1. For the identities of AMFAUNAS 2 through 23, see Attachment E, forwarded under separate cover

a. AMFAUNA-23 AMFAUNA-l's sister-in-law, she formerly served as his contact to members of his net/in asylum in the various embassies, and now serves as his cutout to at least the following:

(1) AMCOG-2: She first appears in AMFAUNA-l's correspondence in his S/W message No. 14 dated 19 May 1961, where he mentions that she was his link to a radio station operated by the(Rescate) organization. Nothing ever came of this proposed communications channel, but AMCOG-2 remained in contact with AMFAUNA-1, helping him arrange asylum for burned agents and passing some of his communications to diplomatic couriers AMFAUNA-1 reported on 9 July 1961, in his S/W message No. 21, that AMCOG-2 knew him only by his alias (Julio ROJO)In his message No. 118, dated June 1962, he reported that AMFAUNA-15 had accidentally blown his true name to AMCOG-2. For a further discussion of AMCOG-2, and her relation to the security of AMFAUNA-1 see paragraph 56 below.

(2) AMFAUNA-14 She is the secretary of (AMCOG-2) with whom she has done clandestine work. She now serves AMFAUNA-1 as an accommodation address and as a source of information. Message No. 112 dated 18 April 1962 included the name of a Communist nurse who has allegedly come to the United States with the mission of infiltrating a counter-revolutionary group. AMÉAUNA-14 Obtained this information from a doctor in a Havana clinic She also is AMFAUNA-1's (link to the Dutch diplomatic pouch

(3) AMFAUNA-15: She is a relative of AMFAUNA-14 and a friend of AMCOG-2. She is also the wife of AMFAUNA-17 and a friend of AMFAUNA-16 who is now Cimprisoned on the Isle of Pines and sends her


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET UFGA-4703

b. AMFAUNA-3: AMFAUNA-1's first mention of her is in his S/W message No. 127 dated 4 May 1962. She has provided information on (military hospitals) and has a trusted contact (Identity 7) (in the G-2). She also was AMFAUNA-1's cutout to Identity-12, who was a (Havana contact) of the (guerrilla leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ). In early June 1962 she was approached by Identity-8 who claimed to be the new contact to the (RAMIREZ) organization. (See also paragraph 58 below.) On 15 March 1962 AMFAUNA-3 was traced by ODIBEX who proposed to use her in their Operation CASINO. A negative trace reply was given at that time. Headquarters is requested to ascertain whether ODIBEX has a valid prior claim on this agent.

c. AMFAUNA-4: He is a high-ranking Cuban Army officer who has provided AMFAUNA-1 with documentary information which ought to be of some value, although JMWAVE has not yet seen it, it having gone to Headquarters via (Madrid) through the channel described in paragraph 11 above. He also claims to be receiving information from Identity-9 and Identity-10. AMFAUNA-1 was introduced to AMFAUNA-4 by AMCOG-2 who in turn was introduced to him by Identity-13. For a further discussion of this matter, see paragraph 56 below.

d. AMBOA-1: The origin of AMFAUNA-1's contact with this agent, who has also been recruited independently by JMWAVE, is uncertain. He first mentioned her in October 1961 as his cutout to Identity-14, (a Cubana Airlines pilot) who had formerly been a contact of AMCUSP-1 and who subsequently defected. AMFAUNA-1's last mention of her was on 15 November when he reported that she had given him a map showing artillery installations on the south coast of Las Villas. It is possible that AMFAUNA-1 has broken contact with her, but since he has not reported having done so it is considered more likely that she remains his cutout to (two Cubana Airlines pilots) who are known to be still reporting:

(1) AMFAUNA-18: He was recruited in March 1962, and has provided AMFAUNA-1 with (passenger lists) and the (location of artillery emplacements) which he has (spotted from his aircraft). It is not known how AMFAUNA-1 first met AMFAUNA-18, and it is possible that AMFAUNA-1 meets directly with him. It is only surmised that AMBOA-1, is his cutout to him.

(2) AMFAUNA-19: He was recruited at the same time as AMFAUNA-18. Although AMFAUNA-1 did not explicitly say so, it can be inferred that he and AMFAUNA-18 are witting of each other's recruitment.

e. AMFAUNA-5: AMFAUNA-1 first reported her as an agent in September 1961. She is the sister-in-law of AMFAUNA-23), former (naval officer) who had been an agent of AMFAUNA-1 as early as July 1961 but had been caught and imprisoned for trying to leave Cuba illegally. She has been the source of information on Cuban (airfields), and is the cutout to a group of people employed at (Rancho Boyeros Airport). It is believed that the identities of all these people have not yet been reported, but they seem to be effective. On 29 May 1962 AMFAUNA-1 reported the arrival of an undocumented Soviet plane at (Rancho Boyeros), and forwarded the passenger list which he said one of his agents had obtained clandestinely. Following are the persons with whom AMFAUNA-5 is known to be in contact.

(1) AMEAUNA-20, her husband. AMFAUNA-1 has written that he has broken personal contact with this man.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET UFGA-4703

(2) AMPAN 12: A former chief engineer of the Office of Airports) he was recruited by Havana Station in 1960, and has been corresponding with JMWAVE by S/W.

(3) AMFAUNA-21: A chief inspector of mechanics for Cubana Airlines. He has stated his willingness to sabotage air traffic but his precise contribution to AMFAUNA-1's operations is not known.

(4) AMFAUNA-22: A chief of electrical instruments for Cubana Airlines. Nothing more is known about this man.

(5) AMFAUNA-23: Brother-in-law of AMFAUNA-5

f. AMFAUNA-6: A support agent. AMFAUNA-1 has written that she has no access to information of interest, but is an intelligent and brave female whom he uses for cover and to secure overt information.

g. AMFAUNA-7: An old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his brother AMCUTLER-150. He works closely with AMFAUNA-8 and formerly was AMFAUNA-1's cutout to the Uruguayan Embassy.

h. AMFAUNA-8: An old friend of AMFAUNA-1 and his brother AMCUTLER-150 He has a contact in the Interior Ministry and works closely with AMFAUNA-7.

i. AMFAUNA-9: A former(sales manager) for a(coffee firm) he secures information of general interest from (coffee buyers) travelling throughout Cuba.

j. AMFAUNA-10:10 A widow of a bank employee, she has contacts in Santiago de Cuba and in the Cuban Navy and G-2. She is also related to the son of Fidel CASTRO and has provided information on the son's whereabouts and indoctrination.

k. AMFAUNA-11: An employee of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and the wife of a Communist member of the Central Planning Board (JUCEPLAN), she has reported political intelligence. In March 1962 AMFAUNA-1 reported that she was under surveillance and that he was therefore avoiding her.

l. AMFAUNA-12: He obtains information from contacts within the Cuban Petroleum Institute (ICP)

m. AMFAUNA-13: An(insurance) company employee with contacts in the Cuban Government, he has reported information on G-2 activities in Cuba and the United States.

Background and Motivation:

116. AMFAUNA-1 is a (39-year-old) Cuban male, born in Cuba of Spanish parents. He has tried his hand at various kinds of work Including the import business, journalism (he was once editor of Diario de la Marina) and insurance He has also ventured into politics, having been a candidate of the Autentico Party in 1958 During the Spanish Civil War he was a member of the Falanje Espanola and during World War II, until the entry of the United States, he was an agent of the German Intelligence Service. The JMWAVE case officer who trained AMFAUNA-1 in tradecraft in March 1961 (see UFGA-1247 of 10 April 1961) observed that he already had a grounding in clandestine techniques. The case officer also characterized AMFAUNA-1 as "a pleasant, intelligent fellow" and "the most astute member of the team" comprising himself, AMCUS and AMCUTLER-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

children, all still in Cuba(as of March 1961) However, it is noted that the two children have different matronymics, that neither of them is his wife's last name, and that all three dependents have different addresses. It is assumed that this is his third wife. Since AMFAUNA-1 has never mentioned her in any of his S/W correspondence, it is also assumed that she has gone the way of her two predecessors.

18. AMCUTLER-1) who was questioned on this point, said that his brother is living in(Guanabacoa) with his present wife, that he has been married only once before, and has only one child from the first marriage. This information is not considered definitive, because the last point directly contradicted by AMFAUNA-1's PRO Part I which he wrote himself, but it is included here for what it may be worth. AMCUTLER-1) added that his brother has no sexual relations with his sub-agents except what is considered normal and acceptable by Cuban standards.

19. The elements of AMFAUNA-1's motivation, then, include an adventurous spirit and a taste for clandestine work. Although "anti-Communism" may be an overworked expression, it would seem to apply in the case of AMFAUNA-1, if his former membership in (the Falange) and the German Intelligence Service can be taken as indicators. Also included should be the loss of a (freight forwarding business) which started out promisingly in 1959 but folded up after a year of CASTRO's revolutionary government. Finally, although these factors did not yet exist in January 1961 when he was recruited, AMFAUNA-1 is certainly affected now by the death of AMCUSP-1 and the imprisonment of his father.

Control

20. It is evident from his S/W messages that AMFAUNA-1 derives great personal satisfaction from his work against the CASTRO regime. His connection with KUBARK provides him with the means to do this work. This is believed to be a strong element of control. There have been many opportunities to test this control, by ordering AMFAUNA-1 to do something or to desist from doing something else, and the control is believed to be effective.

Previous History of the Operation - January to May 1961:

21. AMFAUNA-1 was engaged in some form of clandestine work against the CASTRO regime as early as (December 1960. As with so much else in this operation, details are lacking, but it is known that he already had an understanding with Identity-29 whom he had known for twenty years. In December 1960, Identity-29 introduced AMFAUNA-1 to Identity-27, (an MAR coordinator from Matanzas) who had been introduced to Identity-29 by one of the members of her group, Identity-28. Identity-27. in turn brought in Identity-26, (a fellow MAR coordinator.

22. In January 1961, AMEAUNA-1 came legally to the United States together with AMCUSP-1) and AMCUTLER-1) and looked up their old friend AMJAG-4, who at that time was heavily engaged in work with the resistance groups. AMJAG-4 introduced them to a JMWAVE case officer who instructed them to return to Cuba, to form contacts with as many resistance groups as possible, and to report their progress through AMRUNG-1) who was JMWAVE's principal agent in the paramilitary field. Also inthe JMWAVE area at this time were Identity-19 and Identity-23 whom they met and with whom they were later to work.

23. AMEAUNA-1, AMCUTLER-1), and AMCUSP-1 returned to Cuba in January 1961 They dispatched Identity-16 (to the Escambray), Identity-17 (to Sancti Spiritu), Identity-18 (to Trinidad), and Identity-37 to Manzanillo, Bayamo, and Santiago de Cuba. An unidentified courier was put into touch with the guerrilla leader Identity-15, and AMCUSP-1) and AMCUTLER-1) went to Cienfuegos with Identity-19 to make contacts with insurgent groups there.

![aperture logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET UFGA-4703

time, as did AMRUNG-1)

25. To support the activities of AMFAUNA-1, AMCUTLER-1,) and
    ACUSP-1, it was agreed that JMWAVE would deposit $1,000 monthly into the local bank account of AMCUSP-1 and the latter would provide the equivalent in Cuban pesos from hislown resources inside Cuba.

26. AMCUSP-1) and AMCUTLER-1) continued to busy themselves with preparations for supporting the April invasion They contacted Identity-21 who, at their request, provided cover as travelling drug salesmen for Identity-19 and also for Identity-20 who was intended to be a radio operator for Identity-23. Although AMFAUNA-1 knew all these people, he was compartmented from these operations to some extent, so that after the arrest of AMCUSP-1) and the escape of CUTLER-1 he had some difficulty in reestablishing contact with them.

27. AMCUTLER 1) and AMFAUNA-1, working together, held meetings with Identity-33, a Cuban Army officer stationed at the (San Antonio del Los Banos base, and discussed for supporting the invasion. AFAUNA-1 also contacted Identity-35, the (commanding officer of the San Julian base, and arranged for its surrender, using Identity-34, head of the (OA in Pinar del Rio as a cutout. He had another agent on the base, Identity 36, and had already recruited AMFAUNA-11, an employee of the Ministry of Foreign Trade)

28. (On 18 March 1961) AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1) were arrested by the G-2 while holding a clandestine meeting. At first this was not regarded as too serious a matter. The G-2 had broken into the meeting only after having been alerted by the suspicious behavior of a woman lookout, and it was believed that they had no real evidence. AMCUTLER-1) came to the JMWAVE area on 3 April 1961) and returned again to Cuba on (10 April still optimistic that AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1) would either be released or could be helped to escape.of However, one of the other prisoners apparently confessed and implicated AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1, who were executed on 20 April, with the wave of arrests accompanying the April 17 invasion, AMCUTLER-1 took asylum in the Venezuelan Embassy and AMFAUNA-1 went temporarily into hiding.

29. On 27 April 1961 AMFAUNA-1 resumed operations by sending Identities 24, 25, 26 and 27 to collect order of battle information in Matanzas. Identities 26 and 27 returned to Havana to report. Identity-25 remained in Matanzas, and Identity-24 was caught by the G-2.

30. In May 1961, Identity-30 informed AMFAUNA-1 that some kind of conspiratorial activity was going on in the home of AMCOG-2. He arranged to meet her through Identit: -30 whom he thereafter used as a cutout to her.

31. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart B. The following people participating in this phase were separated from the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and execution:

(1) AMCUSP-1)
(2) AMRUNG-1)

b. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-24
(2) Identity-28

c. By asylum or escape to the U.S.:

(1) AMCUTLER-1)
(2) Identity-23

![APPRAISAL CARD REPRODUCTIONS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UFGA-4703

Previous History of the Operation - June to November 1961:

32. In the period beginning June 1961, AMFAUNA-1 first began making regular use of AMFAUNA-2. He needed contact with his collaborators who were in asylum in various Western embassies, and with AMEAUNA-2 (openly visiting her husband) AMCUTLER-1 (she) was a natural choice for the job. With the departure of Identities 29 and 30, AMFAUNA-1 began using AMFAUNA-2 as cutout to AMCOG-2 who was useful to him for her ability to obtain the help of (diplomatic couriers.) In August 1961 he used this channel to send out some order of battle information obtained by Identity-21.

33. Identity-21 continued to help Identities 19 and 20 until they took asylum in (the Argentine Embassy.) He also served as AMFAUNA-1's cutout to Identity-50 who was a close friend of the (insurgent leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ.) For cutouts to Identity-21, AMFAUNA-1 first used Identity-51 and then AMFAUNA-8. AMFAUNA-8 also served as cutout to Identity-45 about whom nothing more is known than his name.

34. AMFAUNA-1 developed another contact to (Oswaldo RAMIREZ) during this period in the person of Identity-52, a (close relative of RAMIREZ) and a (former lieutenant) in the Rebel Army. Identity-52 met AMFAUNA-1 and Identity-21 on 27 October 1961, and then remained in touch through Identity-51. A few weeks later Identity-52 was arrested.

35. At some time during the period June to November 1961, AMFAUNA-1 began collaborating with AMBOA-1. The origin of this collaboration is not known, but it appears that the initiative was taken by AMBOA-1. AMFAUNA-1 reported that she had revealed to him the fact that she has a channel of S/W communication to KUBARK, and that she had claimed to be a friend of the widow of AMCUSP-1. AMFAUNA-1 asked JMWAVE to confirm her bona fides, and this was done. AMBOA-1 then began working AMFAUNA-1's cutout to Identity-14, a (Cubana Airlines pilot) who in turn was receiving information from Identity 40, an employee of Cubana At some time prior to November 1961, Identity-40 was fired from her job and held for interrogation by the G-2.

36. During the same period AMFAUNA-1 added the following new agents:

a. AMFAUNA-23 (for description see paragraph 15e5 above).

b. AMFAUNA-5 (for description see paragraph 15e above).

c. Identity-41, a person who allegedly was collaborating with several other clandestine groups. He had two sub-agents in the Ministry of Public Works Identities 42 and 43. No production has been attributable to these people.

d. Identity-46, a (clerk in the Ministry of Communications) who allegedly was able to obtain the text of cables between (Cuba and Czechoslovakia.) Nothing ever came of this contact.

e. Identity-47, (a secretary to the Chief of the Revolutionary Armed Forces.) AMFAUNA-1 obtained some order of battle information from her, apparently on an unwitting basis. In August 1961 he reported that he was dropping her because she was a strong Communist and had given him information which he considered of doubtful reliability.

f. Identity-48, a foreman (on the Havana docks) who provided some order of battle information.

g. Identity-49, (Chief of Maritime Police in Cienfuegos) Although his recruitment was reported, AMFAUNA-1 never mentioned him again.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UFGA-4703

and AMFAUNA-1 hid him in Havana until he was able to get asylum for him in (the Ecuadorian Embassy).

38. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart C. The following people participating in this phase were separated from the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity 19 (subsequently escaped and took asylum in the Argentine Embassy)

(2) Identity 20 (subsequently escaped and took asylum in the Argentine Embassy)

(3) Identity 40 (interrogated by G-2, but the duration of her detention is not known).

(4) Identity 52.

b. By asylum:

(1) Identity 21

(2) Identity 37.

Previous History of the Operation - December 1961 to April 1962:

39. During the period from December 1961 to April 1962, AMFAUNA-1 continued to use AMFAUNA-2 as a cutout to AMCOG-2. The latter was given a lead in March 1962 from Identity-13, one of her (diplomatic) contacts, to a disaffected Cuban Army officer, AMEAUNA-4. She turned this lead over to AMFAUNA-1, and the latter held his first meeting with AMFAUNA-4 in AMFAUNA-2's automobile.

40. AMFAUNA-2 was also used as alternate cutout to Identity-11, a woman with contacts (in the Cuban Navy). The other alternate cutout was AMFAUNA-8. Identity-11 was arrested in February 1962 According to AMFAUNA-1's account of the incident in his message No. 89 of 25 February 1962, Identity-11 had been meeting a member of Fidel CASTRO's bodyguard) AMFAUNA-1 had warned her not to trust the man, but she met him again on the following day and was caught with him. AMFAUNA-1 commented that some of his other agents were not compartmented from her, and he had ordered them to go into hiding. He did not identify these other agents. Presumably they included AMFAUNA-2 and AMFAUNA-8.

41. AMFAUNA-3 was recruited during this period and used as a cutout to Identity-12 the Havana representative) of the insurgent leader (Oswaldo RAMIREZ. According to an official announcement by the Cuban Government, (RAMIREZ was killed in action on 16 April) 1962. Other sources have contradicted this report and the matter still remains in some doubt. However, according to information obtained by AMFAUNA-1, Identity-12 was arrested in his home in Havana in late April. For a further discussion of the possible security implications of this connection, see paragraph 59 below.

42. Identity-51, who during the period June to November 1961, had been serving as a link to the Oswaldo RAMIREZ group, now established a contact with Identity-54, a resident of (Cienfuegos) who claimed to be a disillusioned counter-revolutionary. As a cutout to Identity-54, she used Identity-53. As far as the records show, no results were ever obtained from this connection.

43. Identity-14 defected during this period, as did Identity-57, (another Cubana Airlines pilot) whom AMFAUNA-1 had recruited and was


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

paragraph 15e above, ANFAUNA-1 seems to have an excellent network within Cuban (aviation) but how it works remains a matter for conjecture. It is supposed that AMBOA-1 is handling the two(new pilots).[^06]

44. AMFAUNA-21 and AMFAUNA-22, both employees at (Rancho Boyeros)[^08] Airport, first made their appearance during this period, and AMPAN-12 (who has and continues to use his own S/W communications to JMWAVE) found his way into the AMFAUNA operation. All three are known to AMFAUNA-5, and it is believed that she is probably the cutout to them.

45. Identity-55 and Identity-56 were mentioned briefly as active during the period from December 1961 to April 1962. The former had been a contact of AMRUNG-1) and seems to have gone into hiding; in any case, nothing more has been reported on him. The latter was an agent of AMFAUNA-1 in (Santiago de Cuba) in January 1962 he was in niding and awaiting a chance to go into asylum.

46. AMFAUNA-11 remained active during this period, and AMFAUNA-9, 10, and 12 were added to the operation. For descriptions of these agents, see paragraph 15 above.

47. This phase of the AMFAUNA operation is diagrammed in Chart D. The following people participating in this phase were separated from the operation by known causes:

a. By arrest and detention:

(1) Identity-11

(2) Identity-12.

b. By asylum or defection:

(1) Identity-14

(2) Identity-55

(3) Identity-56

(4) Identity-57.

Production:

48. JMWAVE records do not show the total number of AMFAUNA reports disseminated since January 1961. The figure is at least fifty, and is believed to be nearer one hundred, if the present frequency of dissemination can be a criterion. In content they have leaned heavily toward the activities of insurgent groups, militia movements, location of artillery, and aviation matters. There has been a more recent tendency toward political and economic information, which is being encouraged by JMWAVE. Evaluations of his production are lacking.

Security Analysis:

49. The possibility that AMFAUNA-1 is a double agent is considered remote. His successful LCFLUTTER, the fact (or what is believed to be the fact) that his close friend and fellow agent AMCUSP-1) was executed, and AMFAUNA-l's own character and background, allo argue against the proposition that he was originally dispatched by the G-2. However, it must be admitted that the LCFLUTTER can be beaten. Also that there is no proof, other than the fact that AMCUSP-1's wife is in the JMWAVE area and behaving like a widow, that AMCUSP-1 was really executed. There is documentary evidence,pin the formo(of a letter written by a fellow prisoner to AMCUSP-1's) widow, that he was held in prison in March and April 1961. However, the person who identified and buried the body was AMFAUNA-1's father, who was subsequently [^08]

[^06]: Image showing a footnote mark
[^08]: Image showing a footnote mark


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

50. Similarly, all that is known about AMFAUNA-1's background comes from AMFAUNA-1's own statements embodied in his PRQ Part I. No. confirmation of this information has ever been obtained. From this point of view there is no guarantee that AMFAUNA-1 is what he claims to be. For all the proof to the contrary available to JMWAVE, he could as easily have been a(Spanish) Communist as a member of the Spanish Falange, 29

51. These points are listed for the sake of completeness, but littlelimportance attached to them. The known fact that (QUANTUM-51) and QUANTUM-52 consider AMFAUNA-1 reliable suggests that he at least was not a (Spanish) Communist. And an unusually extensive independent view has been obtained of AMFAUNA-l's operations through the reports and debriefings of eight of his agents who have either escared to or are in communication with the United States. The defection of Identity-14, and the escape and debriefings of Identity-19, Identity-23, Identity-26, and Identity-29, have all cor.irmed parts of ANFAUNA-1's story. Finally, AMCOG-3 has reported by S/W that AMCOG-2 is in contact with AMFAUNA-1, and AMFAUNA-2's telephone conversations with AMCUTLER-1 provide a continuing check on the safety and whereabouts of AMFAUNA-1.01

52. For the same reasons, the possibility is heavily discounted that AMFAUNA-1 has been caught and doubled by the G-2 since his arrival in Cuba. Additional indications that all is still well are the fact that he never omits the safety signal that was given him for use in his S/W, that his operational activities are consistent with his character and background, and that the reporting of his agents is consistent with their access to information.

53. Whether AMFAUNA-1 is now in danger of being detected, and whether the G-2 could double him if they do catch him, are two questions remaining to be considered. Taking the second question first, it is believed that the chances of the G-2 running a successful CI operation against KUBARK through AMFAUNA-1 are extremely slim. To be sure, the G-2 has certain weapons that they could use against AMFAUNA-1. His father is already (in prison, serving a fifteen-year sentence, and his mother and two children(are still in Cuba as potential hostages.) It is also conceivable that the G-2 could use AMFAUNA-1's own interest in paramilitary operations as a lever by persuading him that KUBARK, by neglecting to support the insurgent leader Oswaldo RAMIREZ, was responsible for the latter's death and has demonstrated its indifference to the fate of the Cuban people. This would all take time, however, because AMFAUNA-1's reaction to arrest, at least initially, would probably be an attempt to emulate his two heroes, AMCUSP-1) and AMRUNG-1). In the time that it would take the G-2 to break dowmlthis resistance, AMCUTLER-1) would almost certainly have learned, either through his phone conversations with AMFAUNA-2 or by the interruption of the same, that something is wrong with AMFAUNA-1.

54. The risks that AMFAUNA-1 is now running are believed to be considerable. For one thing, at least ten persons with varying degrees of knowledge of his clandestine operations, have been held temporarily or permanently by the G-2, which is believed to be increasing in competence as a security force. For another, AMFAUNA-1 takes unnecessary chances, as by interrogating a new and untested agent (AMFAUNA-4) in the personal automobile of his sister-in-law, or by personally trying to penetrate a restricted area. And for a third, he has some contacts which can be dangerous to him.

55. AMCOG-2 knows too much about AMFAUNA-1 for the latter's good. It is believed that AMFAUNA-1 himself is aware that this is a potential- ly serious security weakness, because he took the trouble to report it (see paragraph 15al above). THE AMCOG operation is itself a fairly complex one, and will be analyzed in a separate dispatch. The aspects of it which which bear on on the AMFAUNA operation are that AMCOG-2 and (her brother) AMCOG-3) dre (close relatives of a very prominent anti-Communistoб Cuban politician) and that they are widely known, both in Cuba and in

![APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

**SECRET**

UFGA-4703

prosecution for acts against it, is a matter for wonder. It has been rumored that the (old politician) has a blackmail hold over Fidel CASTRO by virtue of his possession of very damaging information about CASTRO. There may be some substance to this rumor. As a young student, CASTRO is believed to have committed criminal acts, and the (old politician) would have been in the best possible position at the time to obtain proof of them. This might well explain why the family enjove immunity today.

56. It would seem, though, that an alert and competent security service, which the G-2 shows signs of becoming, if it is enjoined from arresting and prosecuting an espionage suspect, would at least try to control and monitor his operations by penetrating them. It is therefore a cause for speculation that, in February 1962, an important officer of the Cuban Army (AMEAUNA-4) allegedly desirous of defecting, was introduced by Identity-13 to AMCOG-2, and a matter for deep concern that AMCOG-2 passed the lead along to AMFAUNA-1 who accepted it without any prior checking and actually held his first meeting with the would be defector in an automobile traceable to AMFAUNA-2. Since then, it has been observed that reports and sub-sources offered by AMFAUNA-4 are absorbing an increasing amount of AMFAUNA-1's time. The military manuals and documents turned over by AMFAUNA-4, and sent to Headquarters via the (QUANTUMs) and the (Madrid Station), have not yet been seen by JMWAVE, so it is not yet known whether AMFAUNA-4's production can be given a sufficiently high evaluation to allay the doubts raised by the manner of his recruitment. Headquarters is asked to advise on this as soon as possible, and to provide traces on AMFAUNA-4.

57. The other potentially dangerous contacts are, as might be expected, in the field of para-military activities. In November 1961, AMFAUNA-1 was in touch with Identity-52, a (nephew of Oswaldo RAMIREZ), through Identity-51, a resident of (Cienfuegos) Identity-52 was arrested) late in the year. AMFAUNA-1 then developed another contact to the (Oswaldo RAMIREZ group) through Identity-12, (RAMIREZ's Havana) (representative, whose cutout to AMFAUNA-1. was AMFAUNA-3, a woman from (Sancti Spiritus) now resident in Havana. Identity-12 was arrested in April, presumably as an aftermath of the 16 April battle in which RAMIREZ was reportedly killed.

58. In late May or early June 1962, Identity-8, a person from Sancti Spiritus known to AMFAUNA-3, called on her in the company of a certain (Ricardo *IZQUIERDO) who claimed to have had a meeting on 28 May near Trinidad with one Comandante Fide: HERNANDEZ Perez) who gave (IZQUIERDO) a letter for delivery to Identity-12. Unable to find Identity-12 because of the latter's arreste (ZQUIERDO) approached Identity-8 who introduced him to AMPAUNA-3 to whom he handed over the letter. The letter reads as follows;

"Dear Brother-in-Arms:

"I greet you and officially report to you, as our representative to the Military Junta of the FND, the sad news of the death of our commander-in-chief, Oswaldo RAMIREZ, on 16 April last at 9 a.m. He fell in battle together with other brothers. The certificate to this effect, containing the testimony of Captain BORGE, chief of the personal guard, and of other members of his escort, is in my possession, and I will hand it over to you or to anyone designated by the Military Junta of the FND.

"The disorganization caused by the above-mentioned events prevented our reporting this news to you right away, and only now have we been able to make contact with the bearer, a man who has been working for some time as messenger and enjoying the complete confidence of Oswaldo RAMIREZ and of ourselves in particular."

> [Figure] APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

UFGA-4703

who will occupy the position of supreme commander of our liberation army. Whether it be one supreme chief or a joint command must be decided by you.

"Although the National Liberation Army has continued working and acting according to the norms laid down by you and by our late chief, you will understand the urgency of this interview which the bearer will tell you how to arrange. In anticipation of your decisions I sign myself respectfully,

(Capt. Julio E. "CARRETERO")

59. As mentioned in paragraph 15b above, ODIBEX has some kind of interest in AMFAUNA-3, and it may be that their files contain intelligible answers to some of the questions raised by this development. For instance:

a. Why did the RAMIREZ organization not know of the arrest of Identity-12, one of its own members, which had occurred at least a month previously?

b. If the RAMIREZ organization was so poorly informed about Identity-12, how did they know about AMFAUNA-3, and why did they think she would be the appropriate person to give the letter to?

c. Given the disorganization complained of by the writer of the letter, and the fact that all meetings must have been arranged and held under clandestine conditions, how to account for the fact that in the maximum of six days between 28 May and 3 June when AMFAUNA-1 reported the developments by S/W, something like the following sequence of events must have taken place:

(1) (IZQUIERDO) meets (HERNANDEZ) near Trinidad in Las Villas Province, and receives the letter.

(2) (IZQUIERDO) travels to Havana and tries to locate Identity-12.

(3) (IZQUIERDO) is informed that Identity-12 has been arrested.

(4) (IZQUIERDO) returns to Las Villas, reports that the letter cannot be delivered to Identity-12, and is told that AMFAUNA-3 should be given the letter.

(5) (IZQUIERDO) goes to Sancti Spiritus and locates Identity-8 who is a personal friend of AMFAUNA-3 and can introduce him to her, and who providentially is able to vouch for the authenticity of (CARRETERO'S) signature on the letter.

(6) (IZQUIERDO) and Identity-8 go to Havana and give the letter to AMFAUNA-3.

## Future Plans

60. It is difficult if not impossible to give an operation of this complexity the support and direction it needs, when the only communication with the principal agent is by secret writing. There is never enough room in an S/W message for both the positive intelligence reporting and the supporting operational details, and it is the latter that suffer. S/W communication also inevitably involves a time lag which, in the case of this operation, has sometimes run as high as weeks because of the frequent absences from town of AMCUTLER-1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DIERATON BYEMBOL AND KURASOR
UFGA-4703

61. As a first step toward speeding up communications, it is planned to find another accommodation address in the JMWAVE area for AMFAUNA-1's use which can be expected to function without the delays that have been experienced recently. Because of the importance and urgency of some of AMFAUNA-1's intelligence reports, consideration is also being given to assigning a radio operator to him, probably AMGLEN-9 who is awaiting only his signal plan to become active and who will probably not be needed in the AMWPEN net as originally planned.

62. AMFAUNA-1 will be instructed to break off contact with AMCOG-2, and to cease interesting himself in the affairs of the Escambray. As for AMFAUNA-4, it is feared that AMFAUNA-1 is already so deeply involved with him that, if he was not a bona fide defector, the damage has already been done. Nevertheless, AMFAUNA-1 will be warned of the potentialities of this situation so that he ca.. be prepared to go into hiding if it should develop badly. Specific military requirements will be sent to AMFAVA-1 for AMFAUNA-4 to help in establishing his value as a source. Also for the improvement of the security of the operation, AMFAUNA-1 will be told to stop taking personal and unnecessary risks such as his penetration of a restricted beach.

63. For the continued improvement of production, political and economic requirements will be sent to him. AMFAUNA-1 is very responsive to requirements, and has already developed sources and informants in the political and economic areas in response to instructions from JMWAVE, It is believed that an increased output of higher-priority intelligence can be expected from this operation.

END OF DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

2. Maria del Carmen TRUEBA y de la Campa
   DB/Born August 1929. Guanabacoa, Havana
   Resides Calle 24 #105. Apt. 2. Miramar, Havana

3. Hortensia ORIZONDO Meneses
   DB/Born 11 April 1924. Sancti Spiritus, Cuba
   Resides Avenida 28 #108. Apt. 2. Nuevo Vedado, Havana, Cuba

4. Gabino GONZALEZ Agudin aka "Felipe"
   DB/Born 27 January 1931, Chambas, Camaguey, Cuba
   Resides #354 Cherruca St., Cerro, Havana, Cuba

5. Ofelia PEREZ Arce

6. Esperanza MANRESA Duarte
   DB/Born 27 February 1939
   Resides #155 Encarnacion St., Apt. 1, Santo Suarez

7. Raul GRANADOS

8. Conrado SALMO del Castillo aka "Nene"

9. Pepe EMBAS
   Former sales manager for Regil Coffee

10. Yolanda PRADA Gutierrez
    Born 2 September 1935, Santiago, Cuba
    Resides #951 41st St., Apt., Alturas del Vedado, Havana, Cuba

11. Zoraida MARTINEZ Cabal
    Born 24 January 1938, Havana, Cuba
    Resides #145 Entrada St., Apt. 4, Casino Deportivo, Havana, Cuba

12. Secundino CARRERA Sanchez
    Born 21 May 1925
    Resides #611 Coicuria, Santos Suarez, Havana, Cuba

13. Jose Diego TATO Rey aka "Juanito"
    Born 12 April 1923, Havana, Cuba

14. Beatriz PEREZ aka "Betty"
    Resides Calle 8 #120. Apt. 8, Vedado, Havana

15. Elvira BIOSCA

16. Miguel ORTOLL

17. Mauricio MARTINEZ Lopez aka "Gustavo"
    DOB born 4 September 1933

18. Camilo MARTINEZ Bazuero aka "Anselmo"
    Born 28 April 1928, Havana

19. Jorge MARTINEZ Cabo aka "Eduardo"
    Born 16 April 1939
    Resides 533 10th St., Apt. 7, Vedado, Havana

20. Francisco PEREZ Arce

21. Jesus DIAZ

22. Jose Antonio DIAZ

23. (Capt.) Manuel PEREZ Arce

24. Jose AGUIRRECHO

*   Marial, 24 May 32, residen


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

14-00000

all cards -> CIT. CUBA
CONTACT Sub. of 201-291230

Separate Cover
Attachment E to UFGA-4703
to Chief, TFW

2. Maria del Carmen TRUEBA y de la Campa
   DOB/born 8 August 1929, Guanabacoa, Havana SEX:F
   Resides Calle 24 #105. Apt. 2, Miramar. Havana

3. Hortensia ORIZONDO Meneses
   DOB/born 11 April 1924, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba SEX:F
   Resides Avenida 26 #1108, Apt. 2, Nuevo Vedado, Havana, Cuba

4. Gabino GONZALEZ Agudin aka "Felipe"
   DOB/born 27 January 1931, Chambas, Camaguey, Cuba
   Resides 354 Chorruca St., Cerro, Havana, Cuba

5. Ofelia PEREZ Arce SEX:F

6. Esperanza MANRESA Duarte
   DOB/born 27 February 1939
   Resides A155 Encarnacion St., Apt. 1, Santo Suarez

7. Raul GRANADOS

8. Conrado SALMO del Castillo aka "Nene"

9. Pepe EMBAS
   Former sales manager for Regil Coffee

10. Yolanda PRADA Gutierrez
    DOB/born 2 September 1935, Santiago, Cuba
    Resides 1951 41st St., Apt. 1, Alturas del Vedado, Havana, Cuba

11. Zoraida MARTINEZ Cabal
    DOB/born 24 January 1938, Havana, Cuba
    Resides A145 Entrada St., Apt. 4, Casino Deportivo, Havana, Cuba

12. Secundino CARRERA Sanchez
    DOB/born 21 May 1925
    Resides 611 Coicuria, Santos Suarez, Havana, Cuba

13. Jose Diego TATO Rey aka Juanito"
    DOB/born 12 April 1923, Havana, Cuba

14. Beatriz PEREZ aka "Betty" SEX:F
    Resides Calle 8 #120, Apt. 8, Vedado, Havana

15. Elvira BIOSCA SEX:F

16. Miguel ORTOLL

17. Mauricio MARTINEZ Lopez aka "Gustavo"
    DOB/born 4 September 1933

18. Camilo MARTINEZ Bazuero aka "Anselmo"

APERTURE CARD REPRODUCTIONS
06,08


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

14-00000

Father of perta annrovavs

Identity 2 Ramon LAVIN 4233 E. Flagl

Identity 3

Identity 4 Berta SAMPEDRO, 4224 NE 5th St., Apt. 204, Miami

Identity 5 Frank RAEZ (born 14 October 1910, Havana)
Resides 1742 SW 1st Ave., Miami, Fla.

Identity 6 Margarita da ARMAS (born 7 December 1908, Havana)
Resides 735 Calatrava Ave., Coral Gables, Fla. (201-224124)

Identity 7 "Pancho" VILLA

Identity 8 Ruben DIAZ, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba.

Identity 9 Tomas AROPESA, employee of Ministry of Education, Havana

Identity 10 (Lt.) Rolando P. DOBOUE vidaud (born 30 September 1928,
Oriente, Cuba)

Identity 11 Maria Luisa JAIMERENA Lastre (born 21 June 1931, Bahia
Honda, Pinar del Rio Cuba Resides 501 27th Ave., Apt. 8,
Vedado, Havana, Cuba.

Identity 12 Luis RODRIGUEZ Rodriguez aka Andres FUENTE

Identity 13 (Dr.) Tomas QUESADA, Liberian Consul, Havana

Identity 14 Electo REYES de Leon (born 14 May 1932, Santiago de Cuba)
Former Flight Captain of Cubana Airlines who defected In
Nassau, 8 March 1962.

Identity 15 (Comandante) Evelio DUQUE

Identity 16 Sergio MILIAN

Identity 17 Antonio GARCIA

Identity 18 Adalic PEREZ

Identity 19 Miguel PENTON Alfonso ala "Ramon"

Identity 20 (fnu) REYES

Identity 21 Miguel Angel RIVA Part
(born 13 December 1972, Las
Villas, Cuba)

Identity 2 Fernando MORENE

Identity 23 Manolo AMAN

Identity 24 "Hugo"

Identity 25 "Anibal"

Identity 26 Jose AGUIRRECHO

Identity 27 Candida MURGA Cristo (201-30/

Identity 28 Camilo NAVAS, Havana (merchant)

Identity 29 Alfredo FORMOSO Prieto (born 14 May 1921, Coruna, Cuba)

All card -> CIT CUBA

CONTACT sub of

SECRET

CS COPY

10-6-50/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SECRET

Page of Separate Cover
Attachment F to UFGA-4703
to Chief, TFW

Identity 30 Elsa de FORMOSO Sex: F

Identity 31 Luia de ARMAS (born 11 July 1910)

Identity 32 Cecilia" (sister-in-law of luis de ARMAS), resides Calle 24 #705, Miramar, Havana, Cuba.

Identity 33 Capt. Oscar EON Delado aka "Lopez"

Identity 34 Raul GARCIA

Identity 35 Capt. Roger REFL

Identity 36 Mariano MAYTT

Identity 38 LOF AHAKARA

Identity 39 Fonn KENNETT (born 433 N.W. 8th St., Miami, Fla

Identity 40 alias Sara" true name sim tot 10 AMLOBE-3 (201-306475) and probable identical

Identity 41 Pablo MOKESOR

Identity 42 Transitio Astillo Ministry of Public Works, Havana

Identity 43 Quinito Repetti Ministry of Public Works, Havana

Identity 46 Gladys QUAN

Identity 48 Roguberto LG A Trinidad, Cuba

Identity 51 Josefina AROSQUETI born 13 January 1930
Lienfuegos, resides A Cienfuegos

Identity 52 Eloy AMOXLL LECCo"

Identity 53 "Milan"

Identity 54 Domingo Castillo

Identity 56 Aurelio VICCI Magad.

Identity 57 Alonso COMEL Castillo

Identity 58 Jesus MILLARES Nanez, Chief Pilot for Cubana Airlines, now defected.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)