# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/SAS 5 (HE HAD NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 10-13 DEC 63)

INFO : CDP, ACOPAC

SECRET 131237

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO WAVE CITE MEXI 7373

RYBAT TYPIC KEYWAY VASLOUCH

13 DEC 53 80239

REF MEXI 7359/ (IN 77674)

DIR 82355

DIR 83858

1. STATION OFFICER ACCOMPANIED VASLOUCH-2 AGAIN TO AIRPORT MORNING 13 DEC. AFTER ROUTINE DELAY ADMITTED TO AIR CARGO AREA. DOCTOR'S CASE INSPECTED. THIS TIME TWO BOTTOM STUDS ONLY WERE MISSING. VASLOUCH-2 HAD INSPECTED DAY PREVIOUSLY AND FOUND THREE OF FOUR MISSING. NOTE THAT FIRST INSPECTION WAS IN ANOTHER BUILDING. CONSEQUENTLY BETWEEN TIME VASLOUCH-2 SAW BAG 12 DEC AND 1030 MORNING SOMECIZ HAD INSERTED ONE MISSING STU-5000. VASLOUCHOD SAYS SHE ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN SHE NOT MISTAKEN CONCERNING ABOVE.

2. DOCTOR'S BAG AND OTHER FIVE PIECES REMOVED FROM CARGO AREA BUT WERE NOT PASSED BY BUILDING DOOR INSPECTOR WHO INSISTED ON OPENING ALL SIX PIECES. VASLOUCH-2 PROTESTED. CHARGE HER LOCAL EMBASSY CONTACTED AND HE SPOKE ON TELEPHONE TO CUSTOMS OFFICIAL TO NO AVAIL. VASLOUCH-2 THEN SAW CHIEF AIRPORT CUSTOMS WHO REITERATED FACT THAT PARCELS WOULD BE INSPECTED

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

UNLESS LOCAL EMBASSY OBTAINED FREE ENTRY. STATED REASON WAS
BAGGAGE ARRIVED "DESTINATION MEXICO" RATHER THAN "IN TRANSIT".
CUSTOMS CHIEF REFUSED RECONSIDER EVEN AFTER OFFER OF BRIDE BY
VASLOUCH-2.

3. BY THIS TIME PRACTICALLY EVERY CARGO AND CUSTOMS OFFICIAL
   AIRPORT AWARE OF SITUATION AND OF ASSISTANCE BEING GIVEN.
   VASLOUCH-2 BY STATION OFFICER WHOSE *KUBARK* FACE WAS GROWING
   LESS AND LESS FINNISH.

4. PARCELS WERE RETURNED AIR CARGO STORAGE AREA. ALL
   INCLUDING DOCTOR'S BAG WERE FIRMLY CAGED. VASLOUCH-2 THEN
   TURNED OVER PAPERS TO LOCAL EMBASSY WHICH WILL OBTAIN FREE
   ENTRY AND KEEP ALL PARCELS MIXED. VASLOUCH-1 WILL TRAVEL NEXT SOON
   AFTER 1 JAN TO RECOVER THEN. CONSEQUENTLY STATION WILL NOT HAVE
   ACCESS TO DOCTOR'S BAG UNTIL THAT DATE.

5. VASLOUCH-2 TALKED TO VASLOUCH: AFTERNOON 12 DEC.
   LATTER INSISTED SHE RETURN PROPER FLIGHT 13 DEC AS HER
   EMPLOYERS WERE PROTESTING TARDY ARRIVAL.

THIS COMBINED WITH VASLOUCH-2 FEAR THAT DOCTOR'S BAG HAS BEEN
TAMPERED WITH MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE PERSUADE HER REMAIN NEXT LONGER.
SHE PLANS DEPART 13 DEC IF FLIGHT LEAVES. IT NOW CONFIRMED AS
DELAYED AND MAY NOT DEPART UNTIL 14 DEC.

6. LAST FIRM STATION CONTACT WITH VASLOUCH-2 IS AT 1400
   LOCAL 13 DECEMBER. CANNOT PROMISE ANY INSTRUCTIONS OR GUIDANCE
   FROM HQS WILL REACH HER VIA STATION AFTER THAT HOUR.

7. REGRET THESE DEVELOPMENTS AND FACT THAT RS-48 WILL BE
   HELD (IF *IT* STILL IN DOCTOR'S CASES) FOR SEVERAL WEEKS. UNDER
   CIRCUMSTANCES FELT FURTHER STATION INVOLVEMENT AND MORE PRECIPITATE
   ACTION CONSTITUTED UNACCEPTABLE SECURITY RISK.

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)