# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

John M. Whitten:js
CWH/3
5613
28 June 1963

MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH 8

INFO: CI, CI/OPS, FI, S/C

TO MEXI INFO CITE DIR 50937

LIFEAT 50937

REF MEXI 5162 (IN 68160)*

REF MISTAKENLY SLUGGED TYPIC. TO WHAT EXTENT HAVE TAPES BEEN TRANSCRIBED?
IF NOT TRANSCRIBED, CAS MEXI DO IT? IF TRANSCRIBED, ERASE TAPES. IF NOT AND
MEXI CANNOT HANDLE, POUCH TO DIR. ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

WH CMT: *Mexi queried Hqs as to its desire have pouched tapes LIFEAT ESLARD-1 coverage for period resided Hotel Maria Angelos.

![signature of W. Hood]
W. Hood
C/WHD

WH/COPS

![signature of John M. Whitten]
JOHN M. WHITTEN
C/WH/3

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ORIG: JUDKINS:dd
UNIT: A WH/3/MEXICO
EXT: 5940
DATE: 22 APRIL 1963

TO: CICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: 8
INFO: CI, CI/OPS, CI/RA, FI, TSD 5, S/C

TO: MEXI
INFO:
REF: MEXI 4201 (IN 19807)*
CITE DIR: 35066

1. HQS APPROVES LOAN OF ONE STERILE SPARE 9-10 DIAL PULSE RECORDER TO DURKIN.

2. HQS URGES CLOSE SUPPORT TREASURY/NARCOTICS INVESTIGATIONS. MEXI
   MAY PROVIDE DURKIN WITH OCCASIONAL LIFEAT COVERAGE PROVIDED NO LIFEAT TAKE GIVEN TO MEXICANS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *William J. Durkin, Treasury rep assigned to Mexico investigating narcotics traffic, approached Station re dial reccrder for phone tap on Mexican target.*

TSD BRUCE LA ROSE (BY PHONE)
CI/OPS FRANK HUGHES
WH/COPO
CI/R&A/TC


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECAFF

1 April 1963

MEMORANDUM FOR: MI/Personnel

SUBJECT: Recruitment of a Retired CIA or Military Officer for Contract Status in Mexico.

1. Mexico City needs a replacement in September or October 1963 to work on a technical operation. The Station does not want a staff employee, but a Contract Agent.

2. The Contract Agent would need the following requirements:

a. Must bo retired, and move permanently to Mexico under cover of a retired U. S. citizen, with the appropriate guaranteed income required under Kexican law. ($320 for husband and wifebr mi)

b. Must have technical training which would enable him to work on a technical operation, possibly involving the care and upkeep of recorders, etc.

c. Must have a working knowledge of Spanish, or the ability to acquire this fluency prior to arrival in Mexico.

d. It will be necessary for the employee to work with people, make early and late meetings, and to spend a good deal of time driving around town. Therefore, the candidate must drive a car and be physically fit to work long hours.

3. It is requested that information on any candidates be furnished H/3/MEXICO or C/IL/3 for consideration.

John H. Whitten
C/RH/3

DISTRIBUTION:
Orig. and 1 - Addressee
: 1 - IFEA/SUPPORT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SEGRET

: Chief of Station, Mexico City

INFO

FROM : Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT : LIFEAT Security

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

REF: HAMA 20305, 3 December 1962

1. Reference problem was discussed by KURIA with David N. WILSTED, during the latter's TDI at Headquarters in early December 1962.

2. KURIOT recommends the following solution and has furnished the attached material for delivery to ILSTED for his use:

a. The terminal identification system consists of two fluids. Vial "A" is collodion in which is mixed a small amount of phenolphthalein and is intended to be used by the person who originally connects the wires. Genarously daubed on the end of the screw, this solution dries almost immediately in a water repellont, invisible coating.

b. The second vial "B" contains household ammonia. If the bauber in this bottle is drawn down the row of terminals in the connection box, the tip of any screw which was previously treated with the phenolphthalein will immediately turn a dark red color and then will vanish after a minute. The ammonia can be reapplied and this reaction will repeat itself a couple of times before more phenolphthalein has to be reapplied.

END OF ULSPATCH

Attachments:
1 box with two vials of liquid (U/S/C)

Distribution:
Cal - COS, Mexico City w/att (USC)

| ROUTING               | INITIAL |
| --------------------- | ------- |
| 1. Chrono             | J       |
| PID/TSD/ACB/Mr. McBee |         |
| PID/MIS               |         |
| RID/PS                |         |
| RID/PI                |         |
| C/WH13                |         |

50-6-32/3

| DATE TYPED   | DATE DISPATCHED |
| ------------ | --------------- |
| 7 January 63 |                 |

| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER | HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------ |
| HM-11200                   | 30-6-32/3                |

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

| OFFICE                    | OFFICER |
| ------------------------- | ------- |
| WH/3/Mexico - Bustréstrlr |         |

| ORIGINATING | EXT |
| ----------- | --- |
| 5940        |     |

COORDINATING

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE | OFFICER'S NAME    |
| ------------- | ---- | ----------------- |
| TSD/AOB       |      | Mr. McBee (draft) |
| C/WHD         | 7/1  | J. C. King        |

| DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYBAT

TO Chief, Task Force W Attn: Willard N.AUMAN

INFO. Chief, WH: Chief, KUDESK

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT GYROSE/ Jose Ordoqui

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

1. Forwarded herewith are the following items pertaining to Subject:

a. LIFEAT references;

b. Salient reports from other agent sources;

c. References to close contacts of Subject;

d. Exemplars of various types of Mexican police agent reporting;

e. Roughed-out drafts of police agent reporting. These have been viewed and tentatively approved by COS, Mexico. Copies have been retained at the Station.

2. Station Mexico is submitting separately its proposals on the technical and operational aspects of this operation.

Willard C. Curtis

Distribution:

2 - TFW w/att

1 - C/WH w/o att

1 - Chief, KUDESK w/o att

2 - Files

DATE TYPED CATE DISPATCHED

26 Dec. 1962 28 Dec. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-20425

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET/RYDAT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, KURIOT

INFO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Security

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action: See below.

| CLASSIFICATION | PROCESSING                                                                      |          |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| SECRET         | PRO POSED: XX, ACTION: MARKED FOR INDEXING, ACCOM PLISHED: NO INDEXING REQUIRED |          |
| ---            | ---                                                                             |          |
|                | ONLY QUALIFIED HEADQUARTERS LESA CAR RIDGE IN                                   | ABSTRACT |

1.  The purpose of this dispatch is to request Headquarters' assistance in a problem involving clandestine markings for terminals in a telephone cable cross box.

2.  Specifically. It is desired to have the capability of recognizing which cable terminals in a box are being used for telephone tapping without having any markings apparent to unauthorized persons. This system is needed for use in the event that taps must be disconnected quickly under the threat of a possible security problem.

3.  The tap connections are made by LIFEAT telephone company per- sonnel and the terminals could be marked by them at the time the tap is made. The connections sometimes have to be removed by another person who is not familiar with the connections.

4.  It is felt that a quick drying, transparent glue or lacquer that would fluoresce brightly under UV illumination would be appropriate. A material that could be removed later by wiping or chipping it away would be desirable but this characteristic is not vital.

5.  The system must be usable in open shade, although some additional shade might be had by partially closing the doors of the box, and the light source must be portable and if possible have the appearance of an ordinary flashlight. The light source can be brought within two inches of the terminals.

(Continued)

> [Figure: Image of a stamped number and letter]

DATE TYPED: 50-6-32/3

DATE TYPED: 3 Dec. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-20305

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-32/3

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH                                                                   SECRET                                                                                  HMMA-20305

6. This sytem is needed as soon as possible for use during December 1962 and January 1963. Therefore, Headquarters' early assistance or recommendation would be greatly appreciated,

![signature of Willard C. CURTIS]
Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
12 - C/KURIOT
1 - C/WHD
3 - Files

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET                                                                                                                                                                                                        50-6-32/3
PAGE NO
TWO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: CLIFEAT Progress Report for October 1962

Ref:
A. HMMA-20156
B. MEXI 2384

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSFHB-R 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

## A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet During the reporting period, LIFEAT coverage of Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV provided an important and valuable check confirming the reporting of a number of KUBARK controlled double agents targeted against this Soviet officer. Also, coverage of the Soviet Bulletin Office, although not considered vital, does complete Station coverage of the Soviet target and does provide daily information on the activities and contacts of the Bulletin Office personnel.

(2) LIFEAT/Polish LIFEAT continued to provide vital Information concerning the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation with coverage of both individuals and their daily activities.

(3) LIFEAT/Yugoslav Besides the usual coverage of day-to-day activities of the official installation, LIFEAT leads have indicated the possibility of a successful recruitment of a Mexican employee of that installation, LIFEAT information will become even more valuable for continuing assessment of the potential agent and forming of a plan for approach to the Mexican In question.

(4) LIFEAT/Communist Party Coverage in this area gave Station its first information concerning the second arrest of LINLUCK, as well as providing sonie information on important persons in the Mexican Communist movement.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 28 Nov. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-20261

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-32/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET HMMA-20261

(5) LIFEAT/Exile LIFEAT provides continuing coverage of the daily activities and contacts of juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo. Although most of the leads gathered will depend on future exploitation, one contact with an ODYOKE official was noted by LIFEAT (see reference b).

(6). LIFEAT/Cuban Of late, much of the emphasis of the LIFEAT operation has been directed toward support of Station operations in this area, Coverage included monitoring of the activities of AMSTET-1 for the interested Case Officer. This information provided daily leads for the Case Officer in his contacts with AMSTET-1. LIFEAT also covered three lines in support of the AMSTRUT operation. Of this support the interested Case Officer has noted LIFEAT provided very valuable coverage of the important AMSTRUT operation during October. The coverage gave valuable operational leads and resolved what would otherwise have been areas of uncertainty or groundless suspicion. This allowed the case officers to move with more certainty in developing the operation than would otherwise have been prudently possible. It is noted that LIFEAT's continuing coverage is proving to be most helpful.

(7) LIFEAT/American Communists LIFEAT continued to provide information of interest to ODENVY. Travel and contacts of the ACGM are particularly worthwhile.

(8) LIFEAT/Miscellaneous LIFEAT continued its coverage of former Station asset LIVESTOCK-2. This was in keeping with Station's policy of making perlodic checks of the activities of former, potentially dangerous agents.

It should be noted that It is the Station's opinion that LIFEAT'S excellent overall service, plus its ability to provide unilateral coverage of targets of opportunity on short notice (sometimes on as little as two hours notice), make LIFEAT a dependable daily contributor to the fulfilling of the Station's mission.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

No change from previous report.

C. LIAISON

During the month of October the two playback recorders used by the ODENVY processor broke down. These were repaired by the LIFEAT technician, David M. WILSTED, ODENVY continued to process take from the LIFEAT/American Communists in Mexico lines.

D. SECURITY

There have been no known adverse security incidents effecting the LIFEAT operation during the reporting period. LIFEAT meeting sites continue to be changed periodically. The fourteen regular and six alternate sites used for daily contact between the Station Case Officer and WILSTED and Wayne C. DRABAND are considered adequate. Numerous meeting sites are used for contacts between WILSTED/DRABAND and the basehouse keepers.

E. TECHNICAL.

Audio and dial tape recorders ordered by the Station in support of the LIFEAT operation began to arrive at the end of October. These were placed in immediate service. It is noted that the automatic tape stop on the new model Revere audio recorder has thus far proven to be of no use to the operation


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-20261

and on occaston has caused some minor problems. It is believed that these
problems are temporary and will be eliminated when WILSTED has time to
by-pass this cut off switch.

The new Annex VI (see reference A) was placed in full operation
on 23 October and presently provides coverage of four target lines.

F. COVERAGE

During the month of October 1962, LIFEAT covered a total of 25
target lines. Coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. and 5. Polish Embassy (two lines)
5. 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. Yugoslav Embassy (five lines)
6. 11, 12, and 13 BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation
7. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
8. Peter WATKINS
9. AMSTET-1
10. 17, and 18. AMSTRUT operation
11. Psychiatrist attending AMSTRUT-2
12. Carlos ILLESCAS
13. Suspected PCM safehouse
14. LIVESTOCK-2
15. Albert (Margaret) MALTZ
16. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)
17. Noah SEBORER

G. PERSONNEL

LIEMBRACE-8 was reintroduced to LIFEAT in order that he may brush
up on its daily operation, LIEMBRACE-S will temporarily replace David M.
WILSTED as LIFEAT technician during the latter's home leave December 1962
and January 1963.

Steps were Initiated to amend the clearance of LIEMPTY-19 for
work as a part time LIFEAT processor/translator.

2. During the reporting period, LIFEAT operation provided a total
   of 62 reels of raw take from ACGM lines to local ODENVY for their processing.
   In addition, a number of memos were prepared by the Station for passing to
   local ODACID and ODENVY based wholly or in part on LIFEAT provided
   material.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]
Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
13 - C/WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief; WH Division

INFO

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
LIFEAT Progress Report for September 1962

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
Ref: HMMA-19343

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DESENSITIZED
per CSN 43-43

PROCESSING

ACTION
MARKED FOR INCERING
RO INCERING REQUIRED
ONLY QUALIFIED
MEACQUARTERS DESH
CAN JUDGE INDELING
ABSTRACT
MICROFILM

ACCOM
FLISHED
AN
AB X
DES NPD
ARD

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSFHB-F 52-6-1, Section V, Paragraph 2 (4) (1).

## A. EXPLOITATION OF LEADS

(1) LIFEAT/Soviet In this reporting period LIFEAT provided vital Information and live-monitoring support during the installation phase of a successful Station technical operation targeted against Aleksandr G. SIDOROV, Soviet Military Attache in Mexico.

(2) LIFEAT/Cuban This coverage provided valuable operational "support during the period leading up to the recruitment of AMSTRUT-2 giving timely advance information of AMSTRUF-2's arrival in Mexico, as well as his day to day activities and contacts. Following AMSTRUT-2's recruitment, LIFEAT gave an excellent account of AMSTRUT-2's activities for those periods he was not under the control of his case officers. This was invaluable proof of his full cooperation with KUBARK and added a safety factor for the case officers making the recruitment and initial handling which would not have been otherwise available.

(3) LIFEAT/Polish and LIFEAT Yugoslav These coverages continue to provide excellent information of the daily activities of the Satellite officials assigned to Mexico. The LIFEAT support of the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation continues as noted in reference.

(4) LIFEAT/Exile LIFEAT coverage of Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo provides information and operational leads which, though valuable now, would be invaluable if ODYOKE's policy toward AREVALO becomes sufficiently defined to fully exploit all the information provided by LIFEAT LIFEAT

(Continued)

Remove from Project
Cs Classification:-
Rox
Fold:

RECORD COPY

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE TYPED
8 Νον. 1962

DATE DISPATCHED
DISP SYMBOL AND NUMBER.
1887
ΗΛΙΜΑ-20156

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
50-6-32/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

(5) LIFEAT/American Communists LIFEAT continues to provide information of interest to ODENVY (who initially requested this coverage and processes this take.) Local ODENVY has noted recently that the information concerning travel of American leftists to Mexico and their contacts while here are particularly worthwhile.

(6) LIFEAT/Miscellaneous LIFEAT coverage was reinstituted on LIVESTOCK-2 in Station periodic check on the activities of this former agent.

B. PROCESSING OF TAKE

No change from previous report (see reference).

C. LIAISON

No change from previous report (see reference).

D. SECURITY

There have been no known adverse security incidents effecting the LIFEAT operation during the reporting period. The "coyote" incident noted in reference, paragraph 1. D. is now settled and should pose no further difficulty to this operation.

E. TECHNICAL

No change from previous report (see reference).

F. COVERAGE

During the month of September 1962, LIFEAT covered a total of 16 target lines. Coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. BECHICK's place of employment.
5. Individual considered for cut out in BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation
6. and 7. Polish Embassy (two lines).
   S., 9., and 10. Yugoslav Embassy (three lines)
11. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
12. Peter WATKINS
13. LIVESTOCK-2
14. Albert MALTZ
15. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)
16. AMSTRUT Operation

G. PERSONNEL

LIFEUD-24 and LIFEUD-26 obtained a basehouse on 29 September which will take the place of the old Annex VI (closed when LIFEUD-5 and LIFEUD-11 were terminated due to their pending divorce). It has been decided to retain the same annex designation, i, e., Annex VI, since the area of coverage is the same as that provided by the old basehouse.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

HMMA-20156
1887

2. During the month of September 1962. LIFEAT operation provided a total of 54 reels of raw take from the ACGM lines to the local ODENVY office for their processing. In addition, a number of memos were prepared by the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based wholly or in part on LIFEAT provided material.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]
Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
1 - WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: DSARIEFING OF DAVID M. WILSTS? (ps)

5 June 1960

1. On 1 June 1960 Mr. John G. Hayn and Mr. John Kennedy of WHD,
   Mr. Robert Brown of CI/OFS, Hr. Robert Bryant of FI/OPS and Mr. Charles
   Bray of FI/D met with David N. WILSTED (ps).

2. WILSTED emphasised that the whole telephone system in Mexico
   City is undergoing a reformation. The company Telefonos de Mexico, S.A.,
   has sub-contracted this work of cleaning up and reorganising the phone
   system to the independent fira, Intel. They are cleaning unused and
   old lines, putting in new and spare lines, redefining exchange areas,
   laying underground cables, etc. Eventually we should be better off be-
   cause there should be more surplus lines. The renovation work hás
   hampered much of the LIFEAT work, principally because mary of the lines
   now are underground and we cannot get access to them before they enter
   the central. This is particularly true with respect to the Coach En-
   basay, to whose telephone lines we cannot obtain access from the vantage
   point we now occupy.

3. WILSTED said that we try to keep track of the activities of
   "Intel" but since they seen to attack "Colonias" at randon, we have no
   prior warning of their presence in a certain area..

4. In the recent past, Mexico has been using houses for listing
   posts for security reasons. We have more control over the access of
   phone company inspectors or repairman to houses. Howevar, under new
   regulations, all new apartment buildings must have, telephone lines in-
   stalled in the building by the phone company during the construction
   phase. This means that the lines and their destination are concealed.
   WILSTED proposed that this will mean we can again use aperteenta since
   we can siphon off a line destined for use by another tenant in such a
   way that the phone company cannot trace its destination without tearing
   the building apart and we can then install a separate line to the build-
   ing and hook up the subscriber to this line which, if checked, will
   belong to a legitimate subscriber.

5. One system which has been used effectively is to take one-half
   of two separate pairs which have one faulty line each. These two lwilf
   pairs then form one good pair which can use.

6. WILSTED explained that it cost about 3000 pesos to get a
   regular telephone. This entails the purchase of a telephone company
   band, which later can be sold.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

-2-

SECRET

7.  Personnal involved in the tapping of the lines are:

    Rene - who has access to the centrals. He contects the following men:

    Two brothers
    Jose - does exchange connections.

8.  The take from each basehouse is collected early in the morning before office hours by RAFANELLI. He only enters one basehouse which is occupied by an elderly couple. All other contants are in automobiles made at different spots each day of the week. RAFANSLLI then takes the material to a meeting between him, WILSTED and SECHEN where FA PANELLI turns the material over to SECHEN and they all discuss the problems and plans for the day.

9.  According to WILSTED there is no live monitoring done by any of the basehouse keepers.

10. There follows a list of the basehouses and the lines covered at each base:

a) Calero 39

- formerly covered American consuls, now no lines. Being held for future use.

b) Juanacatlan 179 - Cuban residence

Russian Commercial
E. T. (Nicaraguan)

c) Atlixco 47

- 2 Polish
  Seborar
  Tropete
  Bakier

d) Tenancingo

- Cuban military office
  Cuban Ambassador's office
  Campos (travel agency)
  1 spare

e) Aristoteles 80

- JAR
  Ejercito Nacional S.O (name of person unknown)

f) Suderman & Horacio - facilities for three lines. Formerly processed the Czech lines. Now nothing but being held open.

g) Cuautla 131

- 3 Soviet Embassy (tapped in the Central)
  1 Soviet propaganda office (tap in box)

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, JHAVE

FROM:
Chief, Task Force W Chief, WI Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT:
JIROSE/ANSTRUT - Transmittal of LIFEAT Coverage

REQUIRED REFERENCES

Action Required: Attention Martin O. HIRENT

Attached in accordance with conversations with Martin O. HIRENT, are LIFEAT transcriptions in the AVSTRUT-2 case for 11-26 and 28-30 September and 1 October 1962.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
52 pages

Distribution:
2 - THW w/o att.
3 - MD w/o att.
1 - JHAVE w/att.

LIFEAT OPS

DATE TYPED:
9 October 1962

DATE DISPATCHED:
9 October 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:
-19980


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# DISPATCH

Chief, EE

Chief. Wii: COB, Monterrey

Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT BEDOX/LIFEAT

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

DIR-38331, 26 September 1962

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

PROCESSING

![processing form image]

Attached herewith find a copy of MNTY 0600 requested by Headquarters in reference.

Willard Curtis

Distribution:

2-WI! w/att; 1 - COB, Mnty w/c att

1 - EE w/att

3 - Files

![signature]

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DATE TYPLD
DATE DESOL

26 Sept. 1962 28 Sept. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

HMMA-19882

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER

50-6-325


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

TO:

LIRUS 1 SAID

HAIR, TALL, AGE ATBOR 25, 1 TOUGH 2 AUGUST 1 DAY ONLY. CONTACTED
JOSE LUNA ORTIZ, YOUTH AY COAHUILA STATE COMMITTEE FOR. PURPOSE
OF VISIT WAS CONTACT HIM.

END OF MESSAGE.


07/15/22

CS COPY

Citi's HMMA-19887

50-6-32/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Where is

Aug 61 - June 62

?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, Wil Division

INFO...

FROM: Chief of Station. Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Progress Report for August 1962

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES

Ref : A) HMMA 19641

B) HMMA 19129

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1).

A. Exploitation of Leads

(1) LIFEAT/SOVIET With the departure of Vladimir G. NOVIKOV during the month of August 1962, it was decided that LIFEAT should pick up coverage of his replacement Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV. The continued coverage of aleksandr G. SIDOROV, which includes extensive periods of live-monitoring and special processing of the take, is considered essential to those Station assets involved in the attempt to place the technical surveillance noted in last month's report (see reference A). Coverage of the Soviet Bulletin Office continues to provide interesting personality data on Soviet officials assigned to Mexico,

(2) LIFEAT/POLISH LIFEAT coverage in support of the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation continues to be vital to that operation. Additional coverage for this operation has been undertaken, leads from which will probably determine future direction of the operation as well as aid KUBARK in controlling the operation.

(3) LIFEAT/YUGOSLAV In this area LIFEAT provided the information that a cousin of a recently assigned KUBARK deep cover agent, Victor W. OBOLD (ps) will be travelling to Mexico in the near future. This cousin is a long-time Communist Party official and a chance meeting with him could have destroyed OBOLD's carefully prepared cover. Due to LIFEAT advanced warning, proper security safeguards have been arranged, LIFEAT has also provided travel information on Yugoslav officials from the United States which was of great interest to ODENVY.

(Continued)

DATE TYPED: 20 Sept. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-19843


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

HAMMA-19843
-1942

(+) LIFEAT/EXILE LIFEAT coverage in this area has been most rewarding in providing leads to tire contacts of Juan Jose Arevalo Bermejo, "former Guatemalan President. Samish Republican Exiles were covered for approximately one-half month in August, at which time it was decided that the coverage no longer provided sufficient leads and information to justify continued LIFEAT effort.

(5) LIFEAT/American Communis: Group in Mexico (ACCAM)
This coverage is at the request of the local office of ODENVY and the processing of take in this area is done by that office. One of the most interesting items provided from this coverage was the fact that the American Communists Albert MALTZ and Margaret Larkin MALTZ had separated and that Albert MALTZ would probably reside in the U.S. with Margaret remaining in Mexico. Concerning the LIFEAT coverage of the ACGM, the local office of ODENVY wrote on 23 August 1962: "This office feels that the coverage mentioned is quite valuable and many useful leads are obtained from this coverage, particularly with regard to travel in and out of Mexico of American Communists who are in contact with individuals on whom coverage is maintained".

B. Processing of Take

No change from that noted in reference A.

C. Liaison

No change from that noted in reference A.

D. Security

During the early part of August 1962 a group of "coyotes" was uncovered In the telephone company in Mexico City and a number of arrests were made. This group had organized a unit including linemen, centralmen, installation crew, warehousemen, and workers in the office responsible for providing service to new clients. It was the purpose of the "coyote" group to provide service, for a price, to those individuals whose requests for installations had been turned down by the telephone company due to limited availability of cables and contacts, (Note: The company generally keeps a certain number of "spare pairs" in each cable for its own use in providing special service, company phones, and for re-routing during repairs to other cables. It was these spare pairs and contacts which the "coyotes" used to provide illegal phone service.) This telephone company within the telephone company would also collect monthly fees from their "subscribers". When the story came out, the telephone company had special police stationed in each central and spot checks made of linemen and crews to preven: recurrence. It was therefore necessary for the LIFEAT tinemen to refrain from any clandestine activity for a period of alniost four weeks so as not to be accidentally picked up as a member of the "coyote" group. LIFEUD-1 has reported that the situation is now back to normal with the special police details and special checkups terminated. No compromise of the LIFEAT oper-ation resuited from the above incident.

E. Technical

In addition to re-supplying LIFEAT with audio recorders (as reported in reference A), the Station has ordered ten new dial tape recorders for the project Funds for this purpose were included in the latest Project Renewal Request (forwarded by reference B).

F. Coverage

During the month of August 1962. LIFEAT covered a total of 15 target


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

HΜΙΜΑ-19843
1942

lines. The coverage by target was as follows:

1.  Soviet Bulletin Office.
2.  Svyatoslav F. KUZNETSOV
3.  Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4.  BECHICK's place of employment (and place of contact with BEKNAVE)
5.  and 6. Polish Embassy (two lines).
6.  , S., and 9. Yugoslav Embassy (three lines)
7.  Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
8.  Peter WATKINS
9.  Juan Simeon VIDARTE Franco Romero
10. Dr. Eugenio ARAUZ
11. Albert MALTZ
12. Charles SMOLIKOFF (aka SMALL)

G. Personnel

The basehouse operators for LIFEAT Annex VI, LIFEUD-5 and LIFEUD-1,
after a long period of family disagreements, have mutually decided on a
divorce. Both are being terminated by KUBARK since their usefulness as
basehouse keepers for the project will end with their divorce. The agents have
agreed to the terminat lon and it will be accomplished on a friendly basis.
(Agent Service Records will be forwarded). Therefore, it has been necessary
to close Annex VI and terminate coverage of the lines provided by that base-
house. LIFEUD-24 and LIFEUD-26 have been recruited to replace the ter-
minated.couple and are presently looking for a suitable basehouse which could
fully replace the old Annex VI. (Note: POA was granted for LIFEUD-24 on 28
June 1962 and OA was requested. Also, OA was requested for LIFEUD-26
on 30 August 1962.)

During the absence of Woodrow B. GABBOT (ps), the processor of the
Polish language portions of the Polish Embassy take, a replacement in the person
of contact agent BETUMBLE was provided by Headquarters. He performed well
with no known security hazard to himself or LIFEAT. BETUMBLE departed
Mexico City on 17 September 1962. Until GABBOT's return Polish portions of
this take are being translated by the Scation Satellite Case Officer.

2.A. During the month of August 1962, the LIFEAT operation provided
a total of 45 reels of raw take from the ACGM lines to the local ODENVY office
for their processing. In addition, a number of memos were prepared by the
Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part on
LIFEAT provided material.

B. The following reports were based in whole or in part on positive
intelligence which is provided as a by-product of the LIFEAT operation:

HMM-6605
HMM-6626
HMM-6663
HMM-6667
HMM-6670

![signature of Willard C. CURTIS]

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:
- C/WIND
- Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

INFO: Chief, SR Divlaton

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Operational/Transmittal of LIFEAT Report

Ref: HMMA-19741, 4 September 1962
Action: Per Paragraph Two.

1. Transmitted herewith in attachment is a LIFEAT report of 10 September 1962, of a second telephone call from Moscow to Vladilan Ivanovich SAMOKHIN, Head of the Soviet Information Bulletin Office in Mexico City.

2. Headquarters is requested to advise if it has interest in receiving any further such reports.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
As stated above.

Distribution:
1- WH w/att
1- SR w/att
3- Files

![lifeat ops]

DATE TYPED: 18 Sept. 1962

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: HMMA-19826


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# DISPATCH

Chief. WH Divtston

Chief of Station, Mexico City

LIFEAT Progress Report for July 1962

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, Section V. paragraph 2 (d) (1): 1

## A. Exploitation of Leads

(1) LIFEAT/SOVIET LIFEAT coverage in this area was concentrated on known RIS officers: Vladimir G. NOVIKOV and Aleksandr G. SIDOROV. The most rewarding lead from this coverage during July was that SIDOROV would be absent with his enttre family from his apartment for nearly two months, and more importantly, that no one would be continuously watching the apartment during that time. Based on this information, the Station has been able to make the necessary preparations for establishing technical surveillance of this apartment, LIFEAT coverage of the Soviet Bulletin Office, in addition to the above coverages, has provided information on the dally activities of Individual Soviet officials assigned to Mexico, including collection of travel and blographical data.

(2) LIFEAT/POLISH LIFEAT coverage has been vital to the BEKNAVE/BECHICK operation. LIFEAT has even provided live-monitoring of an international call to BECHICK from a former admirer. Also in the Polish area, LIFEAT provided names of Polish Embassy contacts who were Invited to Polish national holiday celebrations at the Polish Embassy, as well as information concerning the impending arrival of the new Polish Am-bassador,

(3) LIFEAT/YUGOSLAV In the Station's increased operations against this target, basic biographical, personnel assignment, and personnel datly activity information is essential, LIFEAT has been providing just this type information since coverage commenced in May.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

HMMA-19641
1922

(4) LIFEAT/EXILE LIFEAT coverage of exile and revolutionary
groups has been concentrated on coverage of Central American and
Spanish Republican groups and individuals. Coverage of Juan Jose
AREVALO Bermejo, former President of Guatemala, has provided the
Station with valuable information concerning his contacts and future
plans. Further. LIFEAT covered LIGIRD-1's contact wah AREVALO
and later revealed AREVALO's convierton that the Station asset, LIGIRD-1,
is involved in a plot to assassinate AREVALO. Coverage of Spanish
Republicans displayed the Internal dissentons aroused by the plans
of a small group of the Mexico-based exiles to assassinate certain
prominent persons with plastte bombs, and ultimately told of the departure
from Mexico to Cuba of two individuals implicated in the plot.

(5) LIFEAT/American Communist Group in Mexico (ACGM)
Targets covered in this category are in answer to a long standing require-
ment laid on by ODENVY and approved by Headquarters. In the past
ODENVY has noted the coverage as valuable and worthwhile to them. As
in the past reliable information was provided on the activities, travel, and
contacts of the ACGM.

B. Processing of the Take

LIFEAT processors continue to process all take for the LIFEAT
operation except for the three ACGM Cines which are processed by the
local ODENVY office.

C. Liaison

No change.

D. Security

No security incidents directly affecting the operation or future of
LIFEAT were noted during July 1962. The assignment of special telephone
company crews to make a survey of spare telephone lines available for
use of new subscribers may cause problems when these crews uncover a
"spare" line used in a LIFEAT coverage. However, since these crews
have no authority (or destre) to trace down the lines to their ultimate
destination, normal LIFEAT security practices should negate this danger.
A second development which could cause future problems is the possible
assignment of a LIENVOY technician to check telephone centrals to see
exactly who else may be carrying on LIENVOY type work. As of this date
LIFEAT personnel, who have been provided with the true name of this
individual, have never heard of him working in any central in Mexico City.
As of this moment it appears this will not develop into a threat to
LIFEAT operations.

E. Technical

New recorders provided in May to LIFEAT are now in operation and
appear superior to previous models used. It is planned, with the approval
of Project LIFEAT for FY 1963, to completely re-equip LIFEAT with new
recorders and possibly dial tape recorders.

F. Coverage

During the month of July 1962. LIFEAT covered a total of 16 target
lines. Specifically, the coverage by target was as follows:

1. Soviet Bulletin Office
2. Viadimir G. NOVIKOV


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
SECRET/
HΜΜΑ-19641
1922

3. Aleksandr G. SIDOROV
4. BECHICK
5. and 6. Polish Embassy (two lines)
7. and 8. Yugoslav Embassy (two lines)
9. Juan Jose AREVALO Bermejo
10. Peter WATKINS
11. Juan Simeon VIDARTE Franco Romero
12. Dr. Eugenio ARAUZ
13. LINEB-1 (one line covered for this double agent operation)
14. Albert MALTZ
15. Noah SEBORER
16. Charles SMOLIKOFF

G. Personnel

Clearance was received on LIFEUD-24 and he will commence work
shortly to fill the gap left with the resignation of Olivia N. GLADMON (ps).
(See project renewal forwarded HMMA-19129.) A deep-cover agent,
OBOLD, was made available to process completely the take from the
Yugoslav lines. He is working out well with no evident security danger
to either himself or LIFEAT.

2. A. Since submission of the last Project LIFEAT Renewal Request
   and Project Review, 72 reels of LIFEAT on the American Communist Group
   in Mexico (ACGM) have been passed to the local office of ODENVY. In
   addition, a number of memos were prepared by the Station for passing to
   the local ODACID and ODENVY based in whole or in part on LIFEAT pro-
   vided material.

B. Despite the fact tha: LIFEAT is used primarily to support
Station operations, some positive intelligence is gathered as a by produci
of the operation. The following reports were forwarded to Headquarters
based on LIFEAT material:

HMM-6421
HMM-6452
HMM-6479
HMM-6499
HMM-6565

3. The Station has applied the RYBAT control to this dispatch to
   ensure the Desk's control of the information contained herein.

![signature of Willard C. CURTIS]
Willard C. CURTIS

21 August 1962

Distribution:
2- WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# DISPATCH

To: Chief, WH Division

From: Chief of Station, Mexico City per CSH 43-43

Subject: LIFEAT Report for April, May, June, July, and August 1961

References: For your information

Date: 22 September 1961

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

## a. Exploitation of Leads

(1) LIFEAT/LIERODE with related lines continued to provide valuable information for use in support of Station operations. However, coverage of the LIERODE official installation was out on 19 May for security reasons. The following leads were provided: As a result of a LIFEAT provided lead, the Station was able to develop an operation in cooperation with the Mexican Government whereby Mario CHAVEZ, Guatemalan who is representative of the Castroite Bohemia, was placed under Mexican surveillance and ultimately arrested. LIFEAT also provided a check on the activities of LITANGO-1. Further, provision of travel information to and from Cuba by Nicaraguan and Guatemalan exiles was of continuing importance.

(2) LIFEAT was employed as a check of the activities of former KUBARK agents LIVESTOCK-2 and LIVESTOCK-3. This coverage has contributed measurably to Station security.

(3) LIFEAT/LITMUS provided vital coverage of the LITMUS official installation during the EECORN recruitment operation. Also of value were the leads pointing to two suspected LITMUS Intelligence Service agents. Other Station assets are now investigating these leads.

(4) LIFEAT coverage of the American Communist Group in Mexico City (ACCM) continues to provide excellent coverage of the activities, travel, and contacts of the American Communists living in Mexico. This information is of primary importance to ODENVY.

## b. Processing of Material

LIFEAT processors continue to process the take from the LIENVOY/LIMERICK coverage.

## c. Liaison

No change.

## d. Security

No adverse incidents were noted during the reporting period. However, coverage of the LIRODE official installation was cut when LIENVOY technicians began regular checks of those lines.

## e. Technical

No change.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMA-17815
1920

f. Coverage

The number of lines covered by LIFEAT during the reporting period varied greatly due to the moving of two basehouses. However, the number covered averaged 12, with the breakdown as follows:

LIERODE, and related lines 2
LITTUS, and related lines 3
American Communists 3
Local Communists 2
Targets of Opportunity 2

g. Personnel

The assistant outside case officer, Ralph B. RAFANELLI (ps). will depart Mexico City for a new assigment within the next month. David M. WILSTED (ps) will undertake complete outside work for LIFEAT for a temporary period while a locally obtained replacement for RAFANELLI is being cleared and trained.

2a. During the reporting period information from 236 LIFEAT reels on coverage of the American Communists in Mexico was passed to the local office of ODENVY. In addition, numerous memos were prepared by the Station for passing to the local OLACID and ODENVY based on LIFEAT provided material.

b. The following reports were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material:

HMM-5570 HMM-5625 HMM-5652
5573 5627 5655
5575 5630 5659
5587 5639 5660
5588 5641 5717
5590 5642 5742
5592 5643 5743
5613 5647 5836

![Signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Willard C. CURTIS

19 September 1961

Distribution:
L-3- Headquarters
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WIH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Report for March 1961

ACTION REQUIRED: Information Only.

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V. paragraph 2 (d) (1):

## a. Exploitation of Leads

(1) LIFEAT/LIERODE, with related lines, continued to receive emphasis from the LIFEAT operation during the reporting period. The appropriate Case Officer considers the check of penetration agents LITAMIL-3, LITAINT-7, and LITALUS-3 through LIFEAT to be of utmost value in controlling these agents and checking their activities. In addition, LIFEAT provided extremely valuable information in the defection of Jose PARDO Llada, giving leads for both FI and PP exploitation. Aid was also given in providing a check of the AMIRON AWOLS in Mexico. In a related occurance, LIFEAT provided information that indicates the Cuban Embassy in Mexico is being used as a Guatemalan Communist communication channel to exiles in Cuba, LIFEAT also provided daily information on travellers to Cuba.

(2) LIFEAT/LITMUS provided information for use in the BECORN operation. It is also of continuing importance as a daily check on the activities of the LITMUS personnel in Mexico.

(3) During the recent Latin American "Peace Conference", LIFEAT provided information on the delegates to the Conference, especially the U. S. delegates, as well as the activities of the Conference.

(4) LIFEAT coverage of Noah SEBORER provided advance information on the travel to the United States of Anna SEBORER and Maria and Enos WICHER. The actual departure and return of these American Communists was also confirmed through LIFEAT.

## b. Processing of Material

There has been no change in the processing of the internally produced LIFEAT take. LIFEAT processors continue to process the take from the LIENVOY/LIMERICK coverage.

## c. Liaison

No change. Remove from Project.

## d. Security

No adverse occurances were noted during the reporting period.

## e. Technical


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

No change.

## f. Coverage

The number of lines covered by LIFEAT during the month of March 1961 was 12. The breakdown follows:

LIERODE, and related lines 4
LITMUS, and related lines 4
American Communists 1
Local Communists 2
Targets of Opportunity 1

## g. Personnel

No change.

2. a. During the reporting period, information from twenty-nine LIFEAT reels on coverage of American Communists in Mexico was passed to the local office of ODENVY. In addition, numerous memos were prepared by the Station for passing to local ODACID and ODENVY based on LIFEAT provided material.

b. The following reports, cables, and information dispatches were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material:

HMM-5497 MEXI-7494 HMMA-16555
HMM-5505 MEX1-7502 HMMA-16564
HMM-5507 MEXI-7561 HMMA-16565
HMM-5511 (MEXI-7492) MEXI-7564 HMMA-16600
HMM-5532 (MEXI-7577) MEXI-7600 HMMA-16607
HMM-5533 (MEXI-7580) MEXI-7613 HMMA-16608
HMM-5534 (MEXI-7585) MEXI-7615 HMMA-16625
HMM-5536 MEXI-7626 HMMA-16627
HMM-5541 MEXI-7677 HMMA-16633
HMM-5545 (MEXI-7639) HMMA-16639
HMM-5549 HMMA-16664
HMM-5550 (MEXI-7681) HMMA-16665
HMM-5552 HMMA-16687
HMM-5560 HMMA-16710
HMM-5563 HMMA-16725
HMMA-16728
HMMA-16735
HMMA-16738
HMMA-16740
HMMA-16747
HMMA-16771

![signature of Willard C. CURTIS]

Willard C. CURTIS

12 April 1961

Distribution:
3-WHD
2- Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# DISPATCH

Chief of Station, Mexico City

Chief, WHD

Automobile License Check

HRMA 16477, 15 February 1961

The results of Headquarters investigation revealed that the
need home of Kiseid -1
automobile mentioned in reference is registered to ona Lewis CIMINO,
A 2711 Chesley Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland. Headquarters traces on
lauto noted atten 201-183704
CIMINO were negative.

Distribution:
2 - Mexico City

END OF DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Report for February 1961

ACTION REQUIRED: Information only

REFERENCES: T-A-16605

CLASSIFICATION: A-16767

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO: FO-C-32/3

DATE: 29 March 1961

SECURITY: MARKED FOR INDEXING

1.  The following report is submitted in accordance with CSMR-F 52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2 (d)(1):

    a. Exploitation of Leads

    (1) LIFTAT/LIFTODE continued to be an essential check on the activities and veracity of the penetration agents LITALUS-3, LITALJS-L, LITANT-7, and L-3. It also provided daily information on the activities of the Cuban official installation as well as coverage of long-distance calls received by that installation from Havana, Cuba. In relation to the AMIRON AWOLS in Mexico, LIFEAT was able to help confirm that none of the ANCLS contacted the Cuban Ambassy. LISTAT alse picked up the return from Cala of Oscar ROIRIQUEZ Koruna (person whe desired employment as a Cuban C-2 agent).

    (2) LIFFAT/LITUS continued to provide the interested Case Officer with daily information on the activities of the officials of the LITUS installation in Mexico City.

    (3) LIFFAT, through coverage of Xavier GUERRERO Saucedo and his wife, Clara Porcet de GUERRO, was able to provide information on preparation activities of the recent Latin American Peace Conference held in Mexico City. This line also provided information of GUERRERO's contacts with other Communists, particularly Francis W. and Libby Campbell. PARK, Canadian Communists now residing in Mexico.

    (4) Coverage of Noah and Anna SUSORER revealed the plans of Anna SIDORER to travel to the U.S., and gave precise itinerary and flight schedule for this travel. LIFFAT was also able to provide the plans and travel schedule on Fnos and Maria WICHER's travel to California. This information is er interest to CD and was passed locally to that cffice.

    b. Processing of Material

    No change.

    c. Liaison

    No change.

    d. Security

    Contractual arrangements for a new raselouse, Annex III, have been all but completed. It is believed that this reve will once again enable Soll secure use of tice experienced basehouse keepers who were envelved in the security question noted in paragraph 1 (a)(c) of Reference. In order to further taprove LIFA's coverage and security, the Station is also considering a move of Annex I if a suitable new sitc can be located. Headquarters will be advised of any progress made in this respect.

    e. Technical Remove from Project

    OS Classification:

    No change.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## C. Coverage

The total number of LIFEAT lines varied from eight to eleven during the reporting period. The normal breakdown is as follows:

LIFRODE and related lines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

LITMUS and related lines. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1

American Communists. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Targets of Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3

Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

## D. Personnel

No change.

## E.

During the reporting period, information from as LIFEAT reels on coverage of American Communists in Mexico was passed to the local office of DNVY for ile information. Memos to ODACIID and ODENVY were also based on LIFEAT provided material.

## F.

The following reports, cables and information dispatches were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material during the reporting period:

IEFA-16535
HMM-5507
MEXI-7212

16534
5505
7248

16533
5503 (via MEXI-7462)
7335

16503
5497
7345

16500
5473

16498
5400 (via MEXI-7391)

16495
5162

16478
5165

16456
5052

16455
5143

16440
5146

16404

16397

16394

16390

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Willard C. CURTIS

29 March 1961

Distribution:

3 - Headquarters

2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# DISPATCH

TO

Chief, WI Division

FROM

Chief of Station, Mexico City

DESENSITIZED
per CSN 43-43

OLIFFAT Report Covering Art, Septerter, October, November. December 1960, and January 1961

DATE

5 March 1961

REFERENCE

Information only

1. The following report is sclelited in accordance with CSB-F 52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2 (d)(1):

a. Fericitation of Lends

(1) LIF:AT/LIFRODE, with related lines, provided overall coverage of the local Cuban and exile activities, and was considered extremely valuable in support of Station operations in the Cuban area. LIFTAT coverage of the Caban Embassy enabled the appropriate Case Officer to check the veracity and activities of the penetrations of that installation; particularly WTAII-3, LITALS-3, and LITAINT-5. It was also invaluable in the debriefing of LICOZE-1. LIFTAT material was the basis of an effectivo KUPARK inspired press release conc.rnin, derogatory activities of Cuban Anlassy personnel.

LIFEAT leads were of special valuo in two "one-timo" cperations. The first of these was the ability of LIFFAT to provide advance information on a mecting arranged between Map ROJAS Villa (aka James Pradford STEWART) and a Cuban Embassy official. As a result of the lead time given by LIFEAT, the Station was able to provide surveillance of the mecting and arrange for the detention of ROJAS. Untimately, ROJAS (a fugitive from ODENVY) was returned to ONYOKE jurisdiction through Station action. In a second case LIFEAT provided follow-up Information which, when provided to CDRGE, lead to the apprehension of Thomas Howard S (aka Carl JONSC), He, too, had attempted to arrange a meeting with Cuban officials in Mexico, and was under warrant for abduction in Chicago, Illinois.

LIFFAT information was heavily drawn upon in the case of Guillerme HERNANDEZ Vega, persible Castre agent, who was suspected of penetrating the AMIRON pre ram. Through: LIFFAT the Station was able to monitor HEPRATEE's attempts to contact various Mexican and Cuban officials and to arrange fer his return to MADD before any such contacts were made.

(2) LIFFAT/LITUS continued to provide daily information on the official Polish installation fa Mexico City which is described by the interested Case Officer as "invaluable and unique,"
During this reporting period, najer contribution has been in providing the leads which determinea that a local cafe is a front for much Polish intelligence activity in the area. It has been furtier indicated that this cafe is the Headquarters tor a suspected Polish operation directed against the OACID installation (previously fully reported to K, KICT, and /D in-1524 A-15005, and 100A-222. The telephone of this cafe has been added to the LIFFA? coverage with resulting increase of Station knowledge of lish Intelligence activity.

Also of major intere twas the LIFTAT support of a Station audio operation against the Polish Fribassy in Vexico City. In this, LIFTAT provided the information on delivery date of a KUDARK "bugged" vicce of equipment ordered by the Tolis: Frtassy. As a result of the Lead time provided, the Station was able to promptly initiate bare house procrezent and other support for this operática.

Remove from Project Dim A116-0
Cs Classifications 50-6-32/3
JOB # 75-1777
FOIA

PAGE NO

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

As a continuing asset, LIEFAT provided daily notice of the activities and movements of Polish officials. In one case LIFFAT provided advance information concerning travel plans of one Jan KRZYWICKI, a person or the Polish Watch list.

(3) During the reporting period LIFEAT Added to the security of the Station in checking on present and past agent assets. Of particular note was the coverage of the activities of LIFTRE, LIVESTOCK-1, and LIVESTOCK-2.

(4) Until terminated for security reasons (see SECURITY, below), LIFIAT mverage of the !!.A.R. Embassy provided independent check of the activities of the members of that installation. Of note were the LIFEAT revealed mectings between Vicente LOMBARDO Toledano, former Mexican President Lazaro CARDENAS and the previous J.A.R. Ambassador Anouar HAT. This coverage also provided information concerning the vieit of an Algerian rebel delegation to Mexi.co.

(5) LIFFAT provided coverage of the local Communists, the American Communist Group in Mexico (ACM), and lately on two Important Canadian Communists living in Mexico. In its coverage of local Communists LIF-AT provided coverage of Carmen RUFAU Civit (admitted former Soviet agent), Xavier CUERPO Saucedo and his wife, Clara Porcet de CHERERO, and Juan Luis CAMPOS Villalobos. LIFEAT provided lcais indicated the place of employment of BRUFAU, as well as much of her dally routine, thereby allowing the Station to initiate physical surveillance of her. LIFFAT coverage of CAMPOS, of interest to the Station's Communist Party Penetration Program, revealed his insincerity in cooperating with KUBARK, and as a remalt efforts toward his full recruitment were terminated with minimun danger to Station assets. Recently, at Headquarters request, LIFEAT reinitiated its coverage of the GUERREROS. This coverage has already provided information of the continuing contact between the GUERREROS and Frank and Libby PARK, Canadian Communist "inmigrantes" to Mexico and members of the Labor Progressive Party (Canadian CP). The Station hopes to mount a more comprehensive coverage of the PARKS as a result of the LIFFAT lead. In the LIFFAT coverage of the ACIM, of parti- calar interest was the advance travel plans of Albert MALTZ, Noah and Anna SEBORER (as well as the travels of their sons Carl and Robert SFBORER), Maria and Enos WICHER, and Grace and Sam NOVICK. Daily activitien of the ACCM are provided through LIFEAT to the local office of ODENVY.

(6) The LIFFAT complex provided the security check of the private office telephones of the Chief of Station and Deputy Chief of Station, as well as checks of the home telephones of certain of the Station officers (as reported in 10A-16465). Since this service is unique and of value to Station security, it will be utilized periodically to guard against hostile audio surveillance.

b. Processing of Material

There has been no change in the processing of the internally produced LIFFAT take. LIFEAT processors continue to process the take from the LIENVOY/LIMERICK coverage.

c. Liaison

In November 1960, the local office of ODENVY requested that coverage of Albert MALTZ be re-initiated. This was done for a short period. However, due to the start of telephone company cable work in the area of basehous Annex IV, coverage had to be terminated. Technical surveillance will be resumed when cable work has been completed.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## d. Security

Operations at basehouse Annex VIII had to be discontinued on 10 October 1960 when the telephone company's installation crews moved into the area of that basehouse and actually approached the annex to investigate the number of lines entering the house. The crew was put off until the next day with the standard, and normal for Mexico City, excuse that the "Senor" was not at home and they could not enter without his permission. By the time the crew returned on the following day, the basehouse had been completely cleared of all equipment, the lines cut back to the roof-line and their ends treated with acid to give then an aged appearance. The crew was allowed to enter the basehouse to check (and ultimately remove) the extra lines, with the admonition that it was about time they cleaned up that mess on the "Senor's" roof. Operations will be resumed when a suitable new basehouse site has been located and equipment installed. There have been no security repercussions since the removal of the extra lines by the telephone company.

The only other security note was in relation to Annex IV and was covered in LIAISON section above.

## f. Coverage

The number of lines covered by LIFFAT during the reporting period has ranged from 9 to 15, but has averaged 12. The normal breakdown of the LIFFAT coverage is as follows:

LIMODE and related lines...................3

LITMUS and related lines...................3

American Communists............................1

Local Communists................................2

Targets of Opportunity........................3

It is hoped that once the telephone company has completed its present city-wide cable and installation work, at least in the areas of the basehouses, LIFFAT will be able to increase its coverage to 15 or 18 lines. The targets for this 3 to 6 line increase are already noted by the Station.

## g. Personnel

No change since last report. Headquarters is reminded that the second tour of Ralph B. RAFANELLI (ps) will end in June 1961. It is requested that a qualified replacement be provided from Headquarters.

## 2.

### a.

During the reporting period, information from one hundred thirty LIFFA reels on coverage of American Communists in Mexico was passed to the local office of ODEVY for its information.

### b.

The following reports, cables and information dispatches were based wholly or in part on LIFFAT material during the reporting period:

IPM-5095 (via MEXI-6008)   IPP-5186

5098   5187

5100   5193

5101   5207

5133   5211

5137   5226

5144 (via MEXI-6171)   5235

5154   5245

5159   5247

5168   5261

5172   5264

5174 (via MEXI-6346)   5268

5180 (via MEXI-6359)   5277


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## A-176605
### 1967

239
100-5376
5297
5379
5299
5380
5309
5381
5310
5382
5319
5383
5321
5384
5329
5386
5330
5387
5332
5392
5333
5393
5338
5398
5339
5400
5342
5406
5313
5407
5347
5408
5348
5409
5354
5410
5356 (via MEX1-6937)
5413 (via MEXI-7187)
5362
5418
5372 (via MEXT-6979
5426 (via MEXI-7187)
5375
5428
5376
5437 (via MEXI-7212)

10NA-15431
15936
15467
15971
15472
16037
15160
16051
15481
16052
15499
16078
15537
16103
15552
16111
15571
16114
15580
16147
15655
16179
15657
16185
15695
16214
15696
16234
15697
16235
15701
16255
15722
16270
15734
16304
15762
16306
15765
16320
15778
16328
15792
16330
15799
16342
15814
16370
15877
15865
15917

MEXI-6000
MEXI-6511
6048
6561
6062
6587
6114
7052
6371
7055
6429
7078
6433
7096
6437
7119

> [Figure: Image of the bottom of the page showing the form number, classification, continuation marker, and page number.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

In addition to the above, approximately 30 memos based on LIFEAT procured information were passed to local ONACID, and 20 memos were passed to local ODENVY.

Willard C. CURTIS

3 March 1961

Distribution:
3 - Headquarters
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Automobile License Check

ACTION REQUIRED: See below.

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NO.: HMMA-16477

HEADQUARTERS FILE NO.: 50-6-32/3

DATE: 15 February 1961

1. It is requested that a prompt check of the following license plate be made and the results forwarded to Mexico City Station:

Maryland 1960 plate
CE 5574
1960 Grey Ford

2. This automobile was observed in front of the home of LIFEUD-1 on 9 February 1961. The driver, an English speaking man, was accompanied by a woman of latin features. The man entered LIFEUD-1's home at about 1030 on the above date.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Willard C. CURTIS

13 February 1961

Distribution:
3 - WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING

|     | PRO | ACTION | ACCOM |
| --- | --- | ------ | ----- |
| X   |     |        |       |
|     |     |        |       |
|     |     |        |       |
|     |     |        |       |
|     |     |        |       |

FROM:
Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT
Carmen BRUFAU Civit

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES
REFERENCE: HM-9065; 1 September 1960

The interested Headquarters component has expressed a desire to review the LIFEAT take to date on Subject. Please forward copies to Headquarters and send copies of future take on a monthly basis.

END OF DISPATCH

Distribution:
2 - Mexico City

CROSS REFERENCE TO

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DATE TYPED
16 December 1960

DATE DISPATCHED
22 DEC 1960

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMMW-9314

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
50-6-32/3

- RT
- WH/Registry
- WH/3/Mexi/Chrono

OFFICE
WH/3/Mexi

ORIGINATING
John G. Heyn bj C/WH/3/Mexico

EXT
2555

OFFICE SYMBOL
DATE
COORDINATING
OFFICER'S NAME

OFFICE SYMBOL
C/WHD

DATE

RELEASING
J. C. KING

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# 076
DATE: 8 NOV 60

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5

INFO: COP, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/INT. 2, S/C 2, ADDP/A

---

DIR INFO SALV CITE MEXI 6594

REFS: A. DIR 09836 (OUT 55644)

B. DIR 09975 (OUT 58956)

C. DIR 09835 (OUT 58643)

---

1. MEXI PLANS MOUNT LIFEAT COVERAGE SALV EMS AND LIENVOY COVERAGE "EDITORIAL POPULAR" (MIGUEL ANGEL VAZQUEZ E. SALV COMMIE LEADER) SOONEST.

2. LIMUD NOW COVERING "EDITORIAL POPULAR" AND CARLOS BARRIENTOS MORAN SALV STUDENT AND MEMBER FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO SANDINO (FRS).

PLAN LIMUD COVERAGE MAURICIO DE AL SELVA SALV COMMIE MEXI.

3. MEXI HAS NO PENETRATIONS OR LEFTISTS FOR TASK BUT PLAN SEND LIMASK CENTRAL AMERICA INCLUDING SALV SHORTLY. LIMASK "COVER" THAT OF EDITOR "VOZ DE AMERICA LIERE". PLANS WILL BE SET FORTH

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

CLASS FCO MESSAGE

XI 6694
IN 40047 PAGE 2

SEPARATE CABLE.

4. NO INFO RE NEW SALV REGIPE FROM HEXI SOURCE THUS FAR. ON 5 NOVEMBER LIC025-1 REPORTED NO INFO SALV SITUATION. HE WILL QUERY PORTUONDO CUSAN AND RE ABOVE WHEN OPPORTUNE.

5. MEXI REQUESTS HQS AND SALV APPROVAL SHYROCK TDY SALV FEW DAYS ORDER FAMILIARIZE SELF BACKGROUND EVENTS AND PERSONALITIES COUP AND CONSEQUENTLY BETTER EVALUATE INFO RECEIVED MEXI.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: REQUESTED STATIONS CONDUCT FULLEST POSSIBLE COVERAGE OF INCOMING MAIL FROM EL SALVADOR AND CABLE PRIORITY SALIENT INTEL ON SITUATION THERE.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

ORIG: CHARLES W. ANDERSON
UNIT: WH/FI 648
EXT: 3995
DATE: 3 NOVEMBER 1960
TO: MEXICO CITY
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: -WH 3
INFO: CI/IC 2, FI, FI/INT 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

ROUTING
1. MEXI
2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. DEFERRED 3 23 G1460
   ROUTINE CCO CABLE SEC
   PRIORITY
   INITIALS
   OPERATIONAL
   IMMEDIATE
   INITIALS
   CJTCO 33
   88628

TO: MEXI PRIORITY INFO
CITE DIR: 09620
09820

1. DESIRE MOUNT LIFEAT OR LIENVOY COVERAGE SALVADORAN
   EMBASSY SOONEST AND CABLE PRIORITY PERTINENT INFO POLITICAL
   SITUATION SALVADOR.

2. CAN STATION SUGGEST COVERAGE ANY OTHER TARGETS
   WHICH MAY PRODUCE ON THIS VITAL MATTER?

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of R. D. Toolega]
CWHD
RELEASING OFFICER
WH/3/MEXICO

COORDINATING OFFICERS.
SECRET
![signature]
AC/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

LIFEAT/OPS

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

DATE: 17 SER 60

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: C/WH 2 (MR HEYN WH NOTIFIED 1855 17 SEP 60)

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DOP, COP, ADOP/A, C/CI, C/CI/RA, C/FI 2, C/FI/D 4, C/FE 4, D/OC 2, S/C 2

SEP 17 22142 60

PRIORITY

IN 14365

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 6348

RYBAT

REF A DIR 62992 (Out 70506) *

B DIR 21226 (aut 70522) **

1. STATION TAKING FOLLOWING ACTIONS:

A. MKCHARITY-PREPARING MOVE SENSITIVE EQUIPMENT TO SAFE

AREA. MULFORD TO SPEND MORE TIME IN LIFINGER COVER OFFICE. STEKLIK

INSTRUCTED STAY AWAY PROM MXCHARITY BASE. LIMAT OPERATION INDEF-

INITELY SUSPENDED. DUE PHILIP L. ALPHER KNOWLEDGE MKCHARITY CONSIDER

THIS OP COULD BE MOST SERIOUSLY AFFECTED.

B. LIMESA/LIMUST-PLAN MOVE ALL TECH GEAR FROM UNIT 11 AND

SUSPEND UNIT 15 LICALLA ACTIVITIES.

C. LIFEAT-REVISING AND REVIEWING LP CUTOFF AND EVACUATION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

DATE
TO
FROM
ACTION:
INFO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

PAGE 2
IN 14365 MEXI 6348

10
PLANS. DUE COMPARTMENTATION AND BELIEVED LIMITED ALPHER KNOWLEDGE
THIS OP, DO NOT CONSIDER COMPROMISE LIKELY.

9
D. LIENVOY-NO DEFINITIVE ACTION BEING TAKEN NOW DUE LIAISON
NATURE OP.

2. HQS REQUESTED PROVIDE CONTINUING ADVICE LATEST APPRAISALS

10
ALPHER 'S AND OTHER ARRESTED TECHS KNOWLEDGE ABOVE AND ALL OTHER
STATION OPS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/8 Comments:
*   Headquarters informed the field stations that LCHARVEST(11) audic opera-
    tion against NCNA in Havana was compromised.
*   Stated that all security precautions should be taken since it was possible that'
    all audio perations could be affected.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WIH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Monthly Report

ACTION REQUIRED: Information only,

DESENSITIZED
per CSN 43-43

HMM-15595
1445

50-6-32/3

31 August 1960

[X] MARKED FOR INDEXING

1.  The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

a. Exploitation of Leads

   1) LIFEAT/LIERODE provided information which assisted in the press exploitation of the story of Gladys Izquierdo Martinez de DELGADO, wife of the recently deported (with the help of LIFEAT provided material) Cuban agent Francisco DELGADO Garcia. LIERODE coverage was also the origin of the lead which gave access to Cuban agent Elpi CASANOVA.

   2) LIFEAT coverage was reactivated 18 July on LIVESTOCK-2 as a Station security operation to check the activities of the potentially dangerous former agent.

   3) LIFEAT also continued to provide the only independent means of checking the veracity of Jose Luis CAMPOS Villalobos who is of interest to the Station's Communist Party Penetration Program.

   4) LIFEAT coverage of the American Communist Noah SEBORER provided the itinerary of SEBORER's trip, which commenced 17 August, to Havana, New York, Moscow, and Tel Aviv.

b. Processing of Material:

The LIFEAT complex continues to process the take from the LIENVOY, Soviet coverage.

c. Liaison

No change.

d. Security

No change.

e. Technical

No change. Remove from Project

CS Classifications: 50-6-32/3

JOB #:

Box: Feld:

f. Coverage

LITMUS and related lines 4 (two initiated in July)
LIERODE and related lines 4
American Communists 1
U.A.R. Embassy 1
Targets of Opportunity 2

RECORD COPY Total 12

50-6-32/3
CONTINUED PAGE NO 1

![table describing different classifications]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

DISPATCH

HMMA-15595
1445

PAGE TWO

g. Personnel

David M. WILSTED (ps) returned from home leave and resumed duties as outside Case Officer for Project LIFEAT on 23 July.

2 a. During the month of July 1960, twenty-seven (27) reels were passed to the local ODENVY office for processing from the LIFEAT coverage of American Communists in Mexico. Reels from the LIENVOY coverage of American Communist Sam BROOKS continued to be passed to ODENVY as LIFEAT material.

b. The following reports, Information dispatches, cables, and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material during the month of July 1960:

HMM-5032 (via ΜΕΧΙ-5835) HMMA-15275 MEXI-5835
HMM-5045 HMMA-15277 MEXI-5941
HMM-5047 HMMA-15307 MEXI-5943
HMM-5065 HMMA-15309
HMMA-15328
HMMA-15402
HMMA-15408

c. Four (4) memoranda were passed to ODACID and two (2) to ODENVY during the month which were based on LIFEAT acquired information.

![signature of Willard C. CURTIS]

Willard C. CURTIS

29 August 1960

Distribution:
1 - WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

INFO

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Monthly Report, June 1960

ACTION REQUIRED: None. For your information.

REFERENCES:

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, Section V, Paragraph 2 (d) (1):

## a. Exploitation of Leads

LIFEAT/LIMERICK continued to provide advance information on arrivals, departures, work assignments, and contacts of the Soviet officials in Mexico City. In this area LIFEAT provided the following; advance travel information on the return of First Secretaries Yevgeniy BOCHKOV and Yuriy ALEKSANDROV from consultations in the USSR, advance information on the arrival in Mexico of the Georgian Ballet on 1 June and its subsequent departure for Cuba on 20 June accompanied by Assistant Cultural Officer Aleksandr BROVKIN, and advance information on the assignment and arrival of new Consular Officer Serafim V. DUNIN, LIFEAT leads provided on the continuing attempts of the Soviets to rent apartments are being checked by the Station surveillance team.

LIFEAT/LIERODE continued to provide excellent coverage of the activities of the Cuban Embassy staff, particularly providing exploitable coverage of Cuban Intelligence activities. Of major importance during the month of June was the acquisition of leads on the activities of Cuban "tourist" Francisco DELGADO Garcia. As a result of these leads, passed to the Mexican government in disguised form, DELGADO was arrested on the night of 7 July and thereafter deported. LIFEAT information also enabled the responsible Case Officer to alert agent LIMASK to threats made by DELGADO to have LIMASK arrested, The LIERODE related coverage of the telephone of Santiago GARCES Arroyo has enabled the Station to maintain a check on the activities of AMSHAD-1, including his possible role as middle-man in a "frozen pesos for sugar" deal reported in MEXI-5794.

LIFEAT/LITMUS provided information on the activities of the Polish Legation during June, particularly noting the travel plans of Polish Intelligence Officer Thadeusz ZIOLKOWSKI.

LIFEAT coverage of a member of the Mexican Communist Party (PCM) is used in checking the veracity of Juan Luis CAMPOS Villalobos who is of interest to the Station's Communist Party Penetration Program.

LIFEAT also agreed to support Project LIENVOY in the processing of the Soviet take when LIENVOY picked up coverage of the Soviet lines LIFEAT was forced to relinquish on 22 June 1960 (See SECURITY below). LIFEAT, though short of processors, agreed to the processing when it was learned that LIENVOY would be unable to process the added coverage it had undertaken.

## b. Processing of Material

Due to the desire of COS that ZINSMEISTER continue to process the take it obtains from the Soviet lines, LIFEAT processor Carol ZINSMEISTER (ps) will undertake the processing of the take of these lines


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

# SECRET

HΜΜΑ-1539-4
1805

which LIENVOY now provides. This is exactly the work previously done by ZINSMEISTER and the only difference is that tapes are made at a different location. However, this does require close coordination within the Station of these two operations.

A problem which has arisen with the withdrawal of the Soviet coverage from LIFEAT responsibility (sec SECURITY below) and the "outage" experienced earlier in June on two of the most productive Soviet lines, is the extreme drop in the production of positive intelligence from LIFEAT coverage. It is hoped that with more intensive exploitation of the coverage still available, plus exploitation of new lines being installed by LIFEAT, that the production of positive intelligence will again measure up to that previously provided by LIFEAT.

## Liaison

No change other than the closer inter-office liaison with Project LIENVOY due to the above noted LIFEAT processing of LIENVOY take and the increased reel and finished product exchange this entails.

## Security

On 21 June 1960 LITENSOR suggested to COS that LIENVOY begin operations against the Soviet and Satellite targets in Mexico City. In order not to indicate that the unilateral LIFEAT operation was providing this coverage, it was necessary for COS to agree to this suggestion. So as not to Jeapordize LIFEAT operations and personnel, LIFEAT coverage was suspended on the Soviet Embassy and Polish Legatton, and the applicable "crossea" were pulled and cleaned. This was accomplished by 1030 on 22 June 1960. Coverage continued on the home of Aleksandr BEKIER, Polish Conselor of Legation, since no security problem seemed to be raised by continued coverage of this line.

## Technical

The arrival in early June of a portion of the replacement parts requested for LIFEAT use has enabled LIFEAT personnel to perform much needed repair and maintenance work on the aging LIFEAT equipment.

## Coverage

LIMERICK 5 lines (All pulled 22 June for security reasons)

LITMUS 3 lines (2 pulled 22 June for security reasons)

LIERODE and related lines 5 lines

American Communists 1 line

U.A.R. Embassy 1 line (Initiated 7 June)

Target of Opportunity 1 line

## Personnel

No change.

2. a. During the month of June 1960, eleven (11) processed reels from LIFEAT coverage of American Communists in Mexico were passed to the local office of ODENVY as well as seventeen (17) reels from ODENVY's processing. Reels from the LIENVOY coverage of American Communist Sam BROOKS continued to be passed to ODENVY as LIFEAT material during the month of June 1960.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

HΜΜΑ-15394
1805

b. The following reports, cables, information dispatches and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material during the month of June 1960:

HMM-4983 (via MEXI-5665)   HMMA-15088   MEXI-5710
HMM-4990 (via MEXI-5686)   HMMA-15116   MEXI-5745
HMM-5014   HMMA-15129   MEXI-5771
HMMA-15134   MEXI-5786
HMMA-15135   MEXI-5794
HMMA-15144   MEXI-5799
HMMA-15158   MEXI-5813
HMMA-15175
HMMA-15180
HMMA-15196
HMMA-15203
HMMA-15232
HMMA-15239
HMMA-15246
HMMA-15266

c. Eight (8) memoranda were passed to ODACID and ten (10) to ODENVY during the month of June 1960 which were based on LIFEAT acquired material.

Willard C. CURTIS

25 July 1960

Distribution:
2 - WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Monthly Activities Report on LIENVOY

ACTION REQUIRED: None. For your information.

REFERENCE: HMMA-15170, RYRAT-1402

On the evening of 15 June COS met with LITENSOR at the home of L.IELEGANT (see MEXI-5761). Among other subjects discussed, LITENSOR urgently suggested that COS arrange coverage of the Soviet/Satellite installation. Since this coverage is obviously one of great interest to KUBARK, COS was left with no alternative but to enthusiastically accept LITENSOR's suggestion. LIELEGANT was equally enthusiastic about the suggestion and requested COS to furnish a list of target lines as soon as possible. On 21 June Malcolm Q. EDELAND passed to LIENVOY/2 a list of 4 Soviet, 2 Polish, 2 Czech and 2 Yugo-slav lines. The Polish, the Czech, Yugoslav and 1 Soviet line were placed within two days. Meanwhile all LIFEAT Soviet/Satellite lines were removed. After due consideration it was decided to advise LIENVOY/2 that we would prefer to drop the 2 Polish lines and at least one Yugoslav line and use all remaining available lines (LIENVOY can handle a maximum of 30 lines, always keeping two spares) to cover a total of five Soviet lines and keeping the two Czech lines already in operation. This was agreed to but the four additional Soviet lines could not be placed immediately due to the temporary absence from the city of LIENVOY/3 whose aid was needed to fulfill this assignment.

The eventuality of a request from high Mexican officials for LIENVOY coverage of Soviet/Satellite with its attendant affect upon LIFEAT had been foreseen by the Station for sometime. On at least two previous occasions when a hint was made to COS by lesser officials than LITENSOR, COS was able to dissuade these officials on the basis of lack of qualified personnel for processing, transcribing, and exploiting the take that would come from taps against Soviet/Satellite installations. However, on the above occasion when LITENSOR even went so far as to suggest that the translations could be handled by language experts at Headquarters COS was in no position to argue this point with LITENSOR. The actual Implementation of the change over of Soviet/Satellite coverage from LIFEAT to LIENVOY (LIFEAT went back on Polish Legation in late June) was accomplished smoothly, with no flaps and the Station does not en-vision any problems, certainly, in the Immediate future..

The processing and transcribing is being handled in exactly the same fashion as before i. e., LIENVOY is doing the taps only, LIFEAT personnel are processing the tapes from LIENVOY. As far as the Mexicans are concerned, the tapes are being forwarded to Headquarters for processing with the transcriptions being sent back to the Station for our information. The Station has promised LIENVCY/2 and LIELEGANT a monthly summary of any interesting highlights that appear in these transcriptions..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET/RYGAT

HIMMA-15400
RYDAT-1425

Between the dates 9 to 14 June during the visit of DORTICOS, LIENVCY covered 10 of the 20 lines of the Dei Prado Hotel where the DORTICOS party was staying. This coverage was for 24 hours daily and the LIENVOY personnel monitored all calls coming to and going from the DORTICOS suite (see MEXI-5731). This service was requested by the Station the day before DORTICOS arrival in Mexico City and was readily agreed to and immediately put into effect thru the efforts of LIENVOY/2. Considerable information of interest and value was obtained from this operation as well as quantities of operational data.

Also, during the month of June LIENVOY/9 was dispatched to Cuba on a special assignment per HMMW-5765. LIENVOY/9 successfully accomplished his mission, returning on 6 July. The results from this mission will be forwarded to Headquarters in a separate dispatch.

1. There follows the third monthly activities report on LIENVOY covering the month of June 1960:

## A. Exploitation of Material Obtained

During the month of June a total of 29 lines were in operation against the following targets:

1. Gral. Lazaro Cardenas del Rio
2. Sam Brooks
3. Gral. Lazaro Cardenas Del Rio
4. Lic. Alonso Aguilar Monteverde
5. CTAL
6. Ing. Jorge L. Tamayo
7. Russian Embassy
8. Leopoldo Arezal Bastar
9. David Alfaro Siqueiros
10. Problemas Agricolas y Industriales
11. Vicente Lombardo Toledano
12. Czech Embassy
13. Joaquin Basanta Lopez
14. Ing. Jorge L. Tamayo
15. D. F. S.
16. D. F. S.
17. Jorge L. Tamayo
18. Francisco Galindo Ochoa
19. Francisco Galindo Ochoa
20. Amalia Solorzano de Cardenas
21. Dr. Lauro Ortega
22. Manuel Sowa Hermida
23. Lic. Enrique Gonzalez Pedrero
24. Czech Embassy
25. Prensa Latina
26. Embajada Cubana
27. Czech Embassy
28. Yugoslav Embassy
29. Armando Lopez Betancourt

Plus 10 linea - Hotel Del Prado - DORTICOS suite 9-14 June (see MEXI-5731)

## B. Processing of Material

With the closing of Unit C (see HMMA-15200) the two processors retained under the project, LIENVOY/6 and LIENVOY/7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET/RYBAT HMMA-15400
FYBAT-1425

were transferred to the Intercept Center where they are now responsible for doing the full transcripcion of the tapes covering lines of laterest to KUBA RK.

## C. Lialeou

During the month of June COS was in contact with LIELEGANT on the average of four times. each week. As stated ti paragraph one above, COS met with LITENSOR on 18 June.

## D. Security

It is believed that the security of the project has been Improved with the closing of Unlt Cand the elimination of all Unit C personnel with the exception of LIENVOY/6 and 7 who were transferred to the Intercept Site. During the absence of Arnold F. AREHART, Malcolin Q. EDELAND was in direct contact with LIENVOY/2 and took advantage of this contact to repeatedly stress the necessity for tight security of this operation as well as personal security of the various LIENVOYS. For operational efficiency, contact once a week will be maintained betweon LIENVOY/2 and EDELAND.

## E. Technical

Early in Juno AREHART returned to Headquartera to convert to Staff Agent and pick up his family to return Pcs Mexico City. He and his famliy arrived 24 June, AREHART reported on his return that some of the equipment was in need of attention but that there were no technical problems durtog ble absence.

## F. Porsonnel

With the ellmination of Unit C the following personnel ware terminated during the month of June:

LITABLE/2
LITABLE/3
LITABLE/4
LIENVOY/13

## C. Production

The toilowing fifty-seven (57) reports, cables and Information dispatches were based wholly or in part on LIENVOY during the month of June 1960,

HMMA-15084
HMMA-15093
HMMA-15094
HMMA-15095
HMMA-15103
HMMA-15107
HMMA-15142
HMMA-15147
HMMA-15170
HMMA-15172
HMMA-15200
HMMA-15201
HMMA-15217
HMMA-15249


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

CONTINUATION OF. DISPATCH

SECRET/RYBAT

HMMA-15400
RYBAT-1425

HMMA-15250
HMMA-15262

MEXI-5682
MEX-5699
AMEXI-5689
MEXI-5698
MEX1-5703
MEXI-5717
MEXI-5731
MEXI-5732
MEXI-5736
ΜΕΧΙ-5746
MEXI-5754
MCT-5761
MEXI-5762
MEXI-5763
MEXI-5764
MEXI-5779
MEX1-5786
MEXI-5783
MEXI-5803
MEXI-5813

HMM-4974
ilMi-4989
HMM-4991 (MEXI-5705)
HMM-4992
10MM-4993
HMM-4997
HMM-4993 (MEX1-5719)
HMM-4999 (MEX1-5730)
HMM-5001
HMM-5014
HMM-5016
HMM-5018
HMM-5019 (MEX1-5797)
HMM-5022
HMM-5023
HMM-5025

Willard C. CURTIS

26 July 1960

Distribanlon:
3-WHD
2- Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

A new HMMA-15325

Subject: Dang as NSBY's Report for June 1950

15 July 1960

1.  During July the LIENVOY project put taps on the telephones of the Czech and Yugoslav Embassies. Anticipating a possible LIENVOY tap on the Polish Legation, the LIFEAT project removed its tap on this installation lest it be discovered thru LIENVOY. The Station also receives Czech and Yugoslav tools every day from LIENVOY. The LIFEAT tap on Aleksander BEKIER's Line continues, a tap on Stanislaw ADAMOWICZ has just begun to produce, and a tap on the Polish Commercial Office is under consideration. Eventually, when the Station is satisfied that the LIENVOY project will not tap the Polish Legation lines, the LIFEAT project will be able to reconstitute its coverage of this target.

2.  A daily flow of photographs is coming from Richard Z. SPATHAR (p) in the LIHARI/2 installations. The Station now has possession of the LITABBY/2 materiale, but for various reasons it will not be useable for a while, and some alteration is being given again to using LITARK/1 as a base for photographic surveillance of the Polish Legation. No photographic aide is available, or under consideration, for the Yugoslav Embassy.

3.  As of 30 June, then, the situation is as follows:

a. Czech Embassy: Daily photographic and telephone coverage, augmented by a considerable quantity of information from LIPIRE air passenger manifests, visa requests submitted to the U.S. Embassy, and LIMAT mail intercepts.

b. Polish Legation: No photographic coverage. Telephone coverage limited to the taps on the BEKTER and ADAMOWICZ lines. Relatively slight information from visa requests, since there are fewer Poles than Czechs in Mexico City, and also because the Poles are apparently unable to take home leave. Little information from LIPIRE air passenger manifests, for the same reasons. Rather more information from LIMAT.

c. Yugoslav Embassy: Telephone but no photographic coverage. Very little information from visa requests or from LIFIRE. LIMAT is a good source of information, but mostly on commercial topics.

d. Other EE Targets: No information worth mentioning, because of the lack of any other diplomatic installations. LIPIRE submits occasional reports on the arrival and departure of individual EE satellite personalities.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

-2-

4. Proceeding the source material listed above absorbs a large part of NISLEY's time. LIBRIFORM handles the translation of the Czech material, and BESMOOTH of the Polish material. There is no translator for the Yugoslav mail and telephone intercepts. NISLEY listens to the Spanish conversations on the Yugoslav reels, and attempts in occasional translation of the more interesting bits of Serbo-Croat correspondence with the aid of the dictionary kindly supplied by Headquarters. NISLEY meets BESMOOTH every day to pick up the Polish translations. LIBRIFORM and SPATHAR are still being met daily by Harvey P. DENENHOLZ (p), after his PCS departure in July this will become NISLEY's responsibility, as will the handling of LIMITATIONS 4 and 5, LIFEBLOOD, LINILE and LIBALSA.

5. Beside the daily scanning of source material, one of the month's more important activities was the updating of the table of organization of the Czech Embassy. This has now been completed. Photographs of departed Czech personnel were forwarded to Headquarters in HMMA-15081, 15106, and 15120. Of the sixty Czechs (including wives, but not children) known to be stationed in Mexico City, photographs are lacking for twenty. SPATHAR has photographed about the same number of unidentified people repeatedly entering the Czech Embassy; copies of these photos are being given to the LIEMBRACE surveillance team, and it is expected that one by one these people will be followed home and identified.

6. The Polish table of organization had already been determined, with the possible exception of the newcomer to the Polish Commercial Office who has not yet been completely identified, and there were no changes during the month. It is believed that most of the Yugoslavs have been identified.

7. The process of accumulating information on Czech personnel has not yet gone far enough for the Station to pick one or two likely targets for concentrated attention. A new officer, positively identified as a Czech intelligence officer, arrived on 30 June and will naturally receive all possible coverage. The Station received a proposal from Headquarters for special attention to be paid to Jaroslav VALENTA, the Commercial Attache; unfortunately, VALENTA had just departed on home leave, so action is being deferred until his return in August.

8. Among the Poles, concentrated attention is being paid to Aleksander BEKIER and Stanislaw ADAMOWICZ by means of telephone taps. The newly arrived Polish intelligence officer will, if technically possible, receive the same coverage as soon as his permanent address is determined, although this will probably mean dropping the BEKIER line. Physical surveillance was run on Tadeusz ZIOLKOWSKI and Henryk POTASZ during the month, the former being


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

-3-

an identified and the latter a suspected intelligence officer, la both cases the surveillance was druppel after the subject showed signs of becoming tall conscious. The ZIOLKOWSKI survelliance lasted several days and revealed a number of possible IS contacte which are now being followed up. The POTASZ surveillance was blown practically Immediately.

9. Pile lien have and beau complered aud Target Personality Dara Forms execured we all Polen except the custodial personnal, Henryk POTASZ (whose form is in the process of completion), and the three newonmers about whom Itale is yet known. As a result of this actietty, Roman CZYZYCKI and Mieczysław WLODAREK have tentatively been selected as worthy of closer concentrarica, the former on a long-term basis and the latter ou a short-term haals, CZYZYCKI is laternstieg because he is ambbtous and apparently not Intellectually committed to the regime, he is the close assistan of Aleksander BEKIER and hease has access to Information of value, his entire family is with him, and he is young enough to be able to make a new life for himself if flight should become necessary. Attempts are now belag made to develop a couract to him throne of his many acquatvances in the Mexican press.

10. WLODARF.K to interesting mataly because he is Minister, and because he seems to be dissatisfied with his prospects. HMMA-13177 of 17 June transmitel information about a poaalble avenue of approach to him. Information received more recearly disclosed that the doctor, who had been tentatively sported as a means of access to Mrs. WLODAREK, ts indeed al-Communist bus 18 also on unfriendly terins with Mrs. WLODAREK, ODACID permmel, who had been asked to cultivate WLODAREK at diplomatie functions, bave reported that WLODAREK has not attended any at which they have beau presam. No Ilkalhood is now foreseen of any means of contact to WLODAREK, and tadicartons are that his recall may rake place aume time this summer,

11. An attempt early in June to recruit a source close to Tadeusz ZIOLKOWSKI falled when it was discovered that the individual did not have the access she had hocu believed to have. Detalls were sent to Headquarters 1 HMMA-151:6 of 8 Jane.

12. Information on a possible source of operational Intelligence on Czech-personnel was obtained from LIKAYAK/2 and forwarded to Headquarters LDHMMA-15082 of 3 June and IMMA-15199 of 22 Jane. The ma'l tuarcept on the Czech accommodation address has began to function, but so far ha produced nothing of value.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

13. MEXI-5683 of 6 June and HMMA-15195 of 17 June transmitted
    Information from and about BEFUNNY obtained from LIFEBLOOD.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

INFO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Monthly Report, May 1950

ACTION REQUIRED: For your information.

REFERENCE:

HMMA-15319
1503

30-5-32/3

13 July 1960

SECRET

DESENSITIZED

per CSH 43-43

1.  The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

## Exploitation of Leads

During the month of May 1960, Project LIFEAT continued to provide excellent coverage of the activities of the official Soviet and Cuban installations in Mexico City, the Station's top priority targets. The following are specific, though necessarily selective, contributions made by LIFEAT through provision of exploitable leads and support to Mexico City Station.

1) The most outstanding single contribution of the LIMERICK phase of Project LIFEAT during the period of this monthly review was the providing of information to the responsible Case Officer which confirmed the validity of agent LITARDY-1. This double agent turned himself into ODENVY, and thus to KUBARK, during the latter part of the review period. LIFEAT/ LIMERICK provided data on the activities and Soviet contacts of LITARDY-1, thus enabling the case officer to adequately plan productive use of this new asset.

2) LIMERICK continued to provide Project LIMESA with support in the form of information on goods and services provided to the Soviets from the local economy. Of special interest was information on specific apartments which the Soviets were considering renting. LIMERICK also continued to provide valuable information on Soviet commercial activities which has been reported separately.

3) Also provided was information of a CE nature concerning specific assignments of personnel withui the Soviet Embassy, advance travel plans of Soviet officials, and arrivals, departures, and addresses of Embassy staff members. The following are examples of this category of information:

a) Vitaliy Borisovich SHUBIN arrived 11 May 1950 and is probably the Intelligence Officer replacement for Yevgeniy LAPSHEV. The address of SHUBIN was also provided by LIFEAT.

b) Aleksandr BROVKIN was assigned duties as Assistant Cultural Officer to replace Vladimir NOVIKOV during the latter's home leave.

c) Valentin BAKULIN was appointed Soviet Film Officer in charge of distribution of Soviet films, including propaganda films.

d) Advance notice was given of the 20 May arrival of the Soviet delegation to the International Cotton Conference held in Mexico City, and noted that the delegation would be composed of Dmitriy MAITOV, Boris FIRSOV, Abdulla SULTANKHODZKAYEV, and Vladilyena TERESHCHINA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

e) Advance information was provided on the following
travel: Soviet Ambassador JAZYKIN to leave 21 June 1960 for home leave in
the USSR; planned departure of Vladimir NOVIKOV, Cultural Officer, for home
leave in the USSR and return to Mexico; departure for home leave 31 May 1960
of known RIS officer Colone! Dmitriy KUZNETSOV; that thirteen Soviet officials
are returning to the USSR during the months of July and August 1960 with no
indication that these are to be replaced (Five of these are known RIS officers;
Yuriy CHELPANOV, Pavel KOVALEV, Yevgeniy LAPSHEV, Vladimir MAKOVKIN,
and Grigori YEFREMOV).

4). Due to advance information provided through LIFEAT/LIIMUS,
the Station was able to cover a clandestine inecting of Alexandr BEKIER, Polish
Counselor of Legation in Mexico, and provide identification of BEKIER's contact.
Through coordination with MKCHARITY and the Station's KURIOT representative,
both audio and photo surveillance of the meeting were arranged.

5) LIFEAT/LIERODE significantly supported the Station's
   efforts in the Cuban operations field by providing leads that lead to and assisted
   in the recruitment of agent LITALUS-3, a penetration of the Cuban Embassy who
   is to be handled by LITALUS-1. LIERODE is also utilized as a continuing check
   on the activities of the newly recruited agent.

6) The Station's CE priority has been supported through coverage
   of the phone used by PCM members Juan Luis CAMPOS Villalobos and Marlo PEREZ
   Maria. This coverage has provided information of value concerning addresses,
   phone numbers, and contacts of other PCM members. It has also been employed
   as a cross-check of statements made by CAMPOS to Howard O. MOSCHIANO.

7) LIFEAT provided information on travel planned and
   accomplished by associates of the American Communist Group in Mexico (ACGM)
   particularly that of Maria WICHER to Moscow, the return of Albert MALTZ to
   Mexico, and the planned travel of Noah SEBORER to Moscow in August.

b. Processing of Material

During the month of May 1960, the quantity of raw information
processed was noticeably reduced, and thus the amount of positive intelligence
derived was also reduced, due to the "outage" on certain of the most producelve
LIFEAT lines. Principally involved were the Soviet lines, including one week
break on an Embassy line, three weeks on the Soviet Motion Picture Office line,
and one week on the Soviet Commercial Office line. These "outages" were
primarily due to the telephone company pulling the LIFEAT crosses, or the
target telephone being out of order.

c. Liaison

As in the past, the only liaison connected with Project LIFEAT is
in passing reels from coverage of the American Communists in Mexico to
ODENVY for their processing. No other liaison is considered necessary or
desireable.

d. Security

No security problems arose that were not readily solved by the
personnel concerned, nor did these jeopardize the operation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

## e. Technical

The only technical problems encountered were those falling within the province of the telephone company, as noted in 1. b above, or the normal malfunctions encountered in the aging LIFEAT equipment. These last were repaired as rapidly as possible with the aid of the replacement parts recently forwarded by Headquarters. No major "outages" were due to LIFEAT originated technical problems.

## f. Coverage

LIMERICK 5 lines (outages as noted in 1. b above)

LITMUS 3 lines

LIERODE and related lines 5 lines

American Communists 1 line

Targets of Opportunity 2 lines

## g. Personnel

David M. WILSTED (ps) departed Mexico City on 2! May 1960 for home leave and Headquarters consultation of approximately two months duration. His duties as outside Case Officer and principal technician have been undertaken by Ralph B. RAFANELLI (ps) and LIFEUD-8.

2. a. During the month of May 1950, information from twenty-three LIFEAT reels on coverage of American Communists in Mexico were passed to the local ODENVY office for its information. During the period 10 May through 16 June LIFEAT processed this take as the ODENVY processor was on home leave. Twenty-six reels of LIENVOY coverage of Sam Brooks were also passed to the local ODENVY office under the guise of LIFEAT material.

b. The following reports, cables, information dispatches, and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material during May 1960:

HMM-4921 HMMA-14942 MEXI-5662

HMM-4924 HMMA-14950 MEXI-5615

HMM-4943 HMMA-14956 MEXI-5593

HMM-4953 (via MEXI-5610) HMMA-14969 MEXI-5536

HMM-4963 HMMA-14991 MEXI-5575

HMM-4954 HMMA-1500-1 MEXI-5556

HMM-4956 HMMA-150-40 MEXI-5521

HMM-4967 HMMA-150-49

HMM-4971 HMMA-15055

HMM-4972 HMMA-15053.

HMM-4975 (via MEXI-5640)

HMM-4979 (via MEXI-5643)

c. Seven (7) memoranda were passed to ODACID and ten (10) to ODENVY during the month of May 1960 which were based on LIFEAT acquired information.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

402
ATE : 30 JUL 60-
O : DIRECTOR
COM : MEXICO CITY
CTION: C/WH 7
IFO : DDP, COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2*

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ROUTING
1
2
3

JUL 1 21392 60

ROUTINE

IN 19430

DIR CITE MEXI 5813
RYBAT LIENVOY
REF DIR 35367 (Cour 89225)**

5813

1. RE PARA 4 , LIENVOY WILL COVER FIVE SOVIET AND TWO CZECH
   LINES WITH TAPES PROCESSED BY ZINSMEISTER AND LIBRIFORM. LIENVOY
   MONITORS WILL EXTRACT FROM SPANISH FOR RESUNEN WHAT IS CONSIDERED
   OF INTEREST LITENSOR. LIELEGANT TOLD WE WILL INFORM HIM OF
   PERTINENT INFO OBTAINED (OSTENSIBLY FROM KAS PROCESSING) OF SOVIET
   AND CZECH TEXT FOR PASSING LITENSOR. LIFEAT WILL COVER POLISH
   AND OTHER CURRENT TARGETS. FOR SECURITY REASONS CZECH LINES
   HAVE NOT BEEN COVERED BY LIFEAT FOR PAST SIX MONTHS.

2. RE PARA 5; (A) NO CURRENT PROBLEM RE EXPLOITATION LEADS
   SINCE LIELEGANT HAS EVINCED NO INTEREST THIS MATTER. (B) PERSONNEL
   UNIT C TERMINATED AND BASE CLOSED. VIEW LIENVOY LACK LANGUAGE
   AND EXPLOITATION CAPABILITY AND OUR ABILITY CONTROL WHAT IS PASSED
   (OSTENSIBLY FROM HQS), STATION SEES NO IMMEDIATE PROBLEMS.
   WILL POUCH DETAILS JUNE LIENVOY MONTHLY ACTIVITIES REPORT.

3. THIS DEVELOPMENT FORESEEN BY STATION SINCE LIENVEY BEGAN;
   NO INTENTION CUT DOWN ON LIFEAT (INDEPENDENT) OPS

WORK FOR BOTH.

AND HAVE SUFFICIENT

END OF MESSAGE
REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
LIFEAi/93
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PAGE 2 IN 19430 NEXI 5513

INFO CITE

C/S COMMENTS: *DISSEMINATION APPLICABLE TO RYBAT JANET CABLES.

**CONCERNED PHONE TAPS AND LITENSOR OFFER RE OVERTHROW CASTRO.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

410-

DATE : 24 JUN 60

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION : CAH 6 (MR HEYN, WH DIV NOTIFIED 1910 24 JUN)

INFO : COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2

JUN 24 22252 60

PRIORITY

IN 16468

5786

PRITY DIR CITE MEXI 5786

RYBAT LIENVOY LIFEAT JAMET

REF DIR 36357 ($007 89.2.28)

1. RE PARA 6 REF, STATION HAS TAKEN ADEQUATE SECURITY PRECATUIONS.

LEFEAT COVERAGE CUT PRIOR LIENVOY ACTION. LIMERICK AND LITMUS
COVERAGE TERMINATED 22 JUNE 1020 HOURS.

2. WILL REPORT SOONEST ON FUTURE HANDLING THESE PORTIONS LEFEAT
   AND LIVENVΟΥ.

END OF MESSAGE

CS COMMENT: *SUGGESTED LIFEAT COVERAGE BE CUT ON LINES TO BE COVERED BY LIENVOY.

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

8 June 1960

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/WH/3/Mexd.co

SUBJECT: LIFEAT

1. During my recent visit to Mexico I had a good chance to go over many of the ins-and-outs of this project with the Case Officer and with other officers in the Station. At Station staff meeting I stated that reporting on CI material derived from the project was inadequate and COS appeared to go along with this view. The concensus I got from the Case Officers was that the SP. Case Officer is not sufficiently alert to the need for reporting on the CI aspects of the matter and is limiting himself to strictly servicing SR Division matters. Various Case Officers cited instances to me of conversations pointing to new clandestine relationships or containing previously known clandestine relationships in the Soviet field which have not been reported. Owing to a lack of time, I was unable to examine the records myself, but I am inclined to accept those statements as true.

2. The Case Officer gave me a general run-down of the situation of the agents on this project and it appears that everything is running very well. He told me that in his new project outline, which will be up in a week or two, he is including some raises to some of the agents. He told me that on his last round of pay raises he had some difficulty hero at headquarters. If any difficulty seems forthcoming this time, I should like to have the matter brought to my attention because, as you know, I feel very strongly on this matter and fought the samo battles with headquarters for at least five years.

3. In speaking with the Case Officers on the Cuban side, as well as on the CI, it was apparent that LIFEAT remains probably the biggest single source of information available to the Kexico City Station and that every effort should be rade to continue its smooth functioning. If this means a couple of hundred pesos increase to each agent semi-annually or annually, it does not seem to be too much of a strain and I do not see why we should have any trouble. When I compare the salaries of the base operators and processers on this project, especially considering the illegal position they are in, with those of relatively unproductive agents elsewhere in Mexico and in many other Stations, I cannot help but feel that we are bujing a great deal for our money in this project.

CC: CI/OPS/WH (Mr. Brown)

CHARLES W. ANDERSON

WH/FI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THIS RECORD

SUBJECT: DERRIEFING OF DAVID M. WILSTED (ps)

6 June 1960

1. On 1 June 1960 Mr. John G. Heyn and Mr. John Kennedy of WHD, Mr. Robert Brown of CI/OPS, Mr. Robert Bryant of FI/OPS and Mr. Charles Bray of FI/D met with David M. WILSTED (ps).

2. WILSTED emphasized that the whole telephone system in Mexico City is undergoing a reformation. The company Telefonos de Mexico, S.A., has sub-contracted this work of cleaning up and reorganizing the phone system to the independent firm, Intel. They are cleaning up unused and old lines, putting in new and spare lines, redefining exchange areas, laying underground cables, etc. Eventually we should be batter off because there should be more surplus lines. The renovation work has hampered much of the LIFEAT work, principally because many of the lines now are underground and we cannot get access to them before they enter the central. This is particularly true with respect to the Czech Embassy, to whose telephone lines we cannot obtain access from the vantage point we now occupy.

3. WILSTED said that we try to keep track of the activities of "Intel" but since they seem to attack "Colonias" at random, we have no prior warning of their presence in a certain area.

4. In the recent past, Mexico hes been using houses for listing posts for security reasons. de have more control over the access of phone company inspectors or repairman to houses. However, under new regulations, all new aparteent buildings must have telephono lines installed in the building by the phone company during the construction phase. This means that the lines and their destination are concealed. WILSTED proposed that this will mean we can again uso apartments since we can siphon off a line Jestined for use by another tenant in such a way that the phone company carmot trace its destination without tearing the building apart and we can then install a separate line to the building and hook up the subscriber to this line which, if checked, will belong to a legitimato subscriber.

5. One system which has been used effectively is to take one-half of two separate pairs which have one faulty line each. These two half pairs then form one good pair which we can use.

6. WILSTED explained that it cost about 3000 pesos to get a regular telephone. This entails the purchase of a telephone company bond, which later can be sold.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

-2-

7. Personnel involved in the tapping of the lines are:

   Rene - who has access to the centrals. He contacts the following men:
   Two brothers
   Jose - does exchange connections.

8. The take from each basehouse is collected early in the morning before office hours by RAFANELLI. He only enters one basehouse which is occupied by an elderly couple. All other contacts are in automobiles made at different spots each day of the week. RAFANELLI then takes the material to a meeting between him, WILSTED and SECHEN where RAFANELLI turns the material over to SECHEN and they all discuss the problems and plans for the day.

9. According to WILSTED there is no live monitoring done by any of the basehouse keepers.

10. There follows a list of the basehouses and the lines covered at each base:

a) Calero 39 - formerly covered American commies, now no lines. Being held for future use.

b) Juanacatlan 179 - Cuban residence
Russian Commercial
E. T. (Nicaraguan)

c) Atlixco 47 - 2 Polish
Seborer
Tropete
Bekiar

d) Tenanzingo - Cuban military office
Cuban Ambassador's office
Campos (travel agency)
1 sparo

e) Aristoteles 30 - JAR
Ejercito Nacional SLO (name of person unknown)

f) Suderman & Horacio - facilities for three lines. Formerly processed the Czech lines. Now nothing but being held open.

g) Cuautla 131 - 3 Soviet Embassy (tapped in the Central)
1 Soviet propaganda office (tap in box)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

# SECRET
(WHEN FILLED IN)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM: R/D/

NOTE: In the absence of comment or indication of action taken, this cover sheet will be destroyed when the document is filed.

COMMENTS

DESENSITIZED
per CSM 43-43

| TO                               | ROOM NO. | DATE               | OFFICE'S INITIALS |     |
| -------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------ | ----------------- | --- |
| 1.                               |          |                    |                   |     |
| 2.                               |          |                    |                   |     |
| 3.                               |          |                    |                   |     |
| 4. AC/WH/3                       |          | 27/5/60            | 7                 |     |
| 5. Mexico/Hyp                    |          | 31                 |                   |     |
| 6. Burton                        |          |                    |                   |     |
| 7. Hughes                        |          |                    |                   |     |
| 8. Reigto                        |          |                    |                   |     |
| 9. Lt/PE                         |          |                    |                   |     |
| 10. WH/FI                        |          | 6 OCT              |                   |     |
| 11. Tarvin                       |          | 7 June 6.          |                   |     |
| 12. CTOS/WH                      |          | 9 JUN 1960         |                   |     |
| 13. F1/D/Harry                   |          | 13 June 13 Jun     | CS                |     |
| 14. SR/LC 170                    |          | 15 13 1960 16 1960 | EB                |     |
| 15.                              |          |                    |                   |     |
| 16. Remove from Project sprin    |          |                    | 32/3              |     |
| CS Classification: JOB 25-175 27 |          |                    | 6                 |     |
| 17. Box: 70 Fold:                |          |                    |                   |     |
| 18.                              |          |                    |                   |     |
| 19. et/h/m                       |          |                    |                   |     |
| 20. atn/rl                       |          |                    |                   |     |

Copy

4/du/a

4 to 9410: This is the first expanded Monthly Report since my visit to trastavian. The inclusion of the section on Exploited Leads works on signal improvement over former monthly reports.

nice

Copy detached

... be handed

...to not send

...mail

fiie

2(3)


ENCLOSURE ABSTRACT FILE NUMBER INDEX

DATE MICROFILMED DOCUMENT DATE DOCUMENT NUMBER

HVA-14991

FORM 610a USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

-SECRET

![photo of document edge with markings]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

LIFEAT Monthly Report, Aprli 1960

Information only.

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

a. Exploitation of Leads

d) The LIMERICK phase of the LIFEAT operation is able continuously to provide the interested case officers with background personality information on the members of the Soviet Embassy staff, as well as travel information on Soviet officials and diplomatic couriers. During the month of April 1960, this type of information was exploited for the following:

a) Viktor Nikolayevich GLOTOV, First Secretary, will be the replacement for Vladimir Georgiyevich NOVIKOV as Cultural Officer when the latter leaves for the USSR on 29 May 1960. He will also act as the Soviet Ambassador's executive secretary during the home leave of Vladimir Ivanovich CHERNYSHEV, CHERNYSHEV departed for leave on 17 April.

b) Nikolai ZHOUGANOV was the replacement for Anatoliy Konstantinovich YEMELYANOV, Commercial Office employee who works "upstairs" in the Chancellery rather than in the Commercial Office, This Indicated that ZHOUGANOV may be a code clerk.

c) Confirmation that four aliens are employed in the Chancery as teachers, one of whom teaches English.

d) Indications of increased contact between the Soviet and Cuban officials as noted in the travel of Soviet officers to Havana and conversations between the Cuban Embassy and the Soviet Ambassador indicating an announcement of importance was to be made on 8 May, possibly concerning the establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the USSR.

e) Through the review of past LIFEAT traffic and the direct statements of the Soviet Embassy personnel in discussions of "duty rosters", it has been determined that a reduction in the Embassy staff is in progress. Future LIFEAT information should disclose whether this reduction is of a permanent or temporary nature.

f) Advance travel notice on Soviets such as CHERNYSHEV, NOVIKOV, Semeon FEDOROV, and couriers Vladimir BYKOV and Valentin KUZNETSOV.

LIFEAT/LIMERICK also revealed a serious rift which has developed between the Soviet Commercial Office and one of its primary commercial


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HMMA-14991
1773

contacts, Mony DESWAAN, over the latter's failure to pay the Soviets for two
shipments of Russian farm tractors for which DESWAAN has received payment
from the Mexican Government, the ultimate purchaser, LIFEAT indicates
DESWAAN has made himself unavailable to the Soviets since two of his cheeks
have "bounced" for lacks of funds. LIFEAT further noted that the Soviets are
concerned over reports that DESWAAN is planning an early summer trip to
Europe with his entire family.

LIMERICK provided valuable support to the Station's AEIMPULSE
operation by furnishing detailed information on the DeSwaan and Esteve Brothers
commercial dealings with the Soviets. It was also employed as a security device
after the conclusion of the above operation.

Leads were provided on two properties of Interest to the Soviets,
Calle Mazatlan #208 and Calle Chilpancingo #13, which were a valuable contribution
to the LIMESA Project.

II) LIFEAT/LITMUS was the source of information on the arrival in
and departure from Mexico City of Polish officials Jozef WINEWICZ, former
Polish Ambassador to Washington, and Boleslaw JELEN.

(11) LIFEAT/LIERODE continued to provide excellent operational
leads concerning Cuban and exile operations. Of particular note was the ability
of Station Mexico to warn an ODACID officer of a possible "walk-in" provocation
attempt by an agent of the Cuban Embassy. LIERODE also provided information
on four American citizens who entered Mexico on their way to Honduras to join
an anti-Somoza revolutionary attempt.

b. Processing of Material

Although the LIFEAT project must be considered primarily a
Station support project, an effort to further exploit LIFEAT for positive
intelligence has been made by assigning the assistant case officer the task of
coordinating the efforts of the appropriate area case officers and the Station
reports officer in matters concerning LIFEAT produced information. Although
this system has been tested only during the month of Apru, it is hoped that it
will prove of value in increasing the positive Intelligence take from LIFEAT
provided material.

No change was made in the manner of processing the raw LIFEAT
reels during the month of April.

c. Liaison

As in the past, the only liaison connected with Project LIFEAT
is in passing reels from coverage of the American Communists in Mexico to
ODENVY for their processing. No other liaison is considered necessary or
desireable.

d. Security

LIFEAT/LIVERY continued to remain out of operation due to the
extensive telephone company installation and renovation work being carried on
in the vicinity of the LIVERY basehouse. No definite date can be given for the
completion of the telephone company work.

e. Technical

No change.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

# f. Coverage

LIMERICK 5 lines
LITMUS 2 lines
LIERODE and related 5 lines (one terminated 27 April due to lack of value.)
lines
American Communists 1 line
Targets of Opportunity 2 lines (one installed 1 April, and one
Installed 25 April.)

# g. Personnel

No change.

2. a. During the month of April 1960, twenty-two (22) reels were passed to the local ODENVY office from LIFEAT coverage of American Communists in Mexico. Reels from the LIENVOY coverage of American Communist Sam BROOKS continued to be passed to ODENVY as LIFEAT material until 12 April at which time LIENVOY coverage of BROOKS was discontinued.

b. The following reports, cables, information dispatches, and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT material during the month of April 1960:

HMM-4855 HMMA-14762 MEXI-5373
HMM-4857 HMMA-14843 MEXI-5424
HMM-4858 HMMA-14855 MEXI-5435
HMM-4876 HMMA-14885 MEXI-5441
HMM-4877 HMMA-14892 MEXI-5451
HMM-4879 MEXI-5453
HMM-4891 MEXI-5463
HMM-4892 MEXI-5467
HMM-4893 MEXI-5494
HMM-4895 MEXI-5496
HMM-4904 (via MEXI-5485)
HMM-4907 (via MEXI-5490)
HMM-4918 (vla MEXI-5507)
HMM-4919 (via MEXI-5508)

c. Eleven (11) memoranda were passed to CDACID and ten (10) to ODENVY during the month of April 1960 which were based on LIFEAT acquired information.

Willard C. CURTIS

17 May 1960

Distribution:
3 - WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Monthly Report - March 1960

ACTION REQUIRED: Information only.

REFERENCES:

HMMA-14856

50-6-32/3

20 April 1960

1.  The following report is submitted in accordance with CSHB-F 52-6-1, Section V, paragraph 2 (d) (1):

## a. Exploitation of Leads.

LIMERICK continues to be extremely useful in providing background information on Soviet personalities for the SR case officer as well as movement reports on these personalities which are of interest to the local ODACID chief. The LIMERICK phase of LIFEAT also provided support to the Station's AEIMPULSE operation.

LITMUS provided information concerning the impending transfer of Polish Consul Tadeusz ZIOLKOWSKI.

LIERODE has provided important information enabling the Station to follow closely the defection of LIFAG-1 as well as the ensuing reaction in the target establishment, and was employed as a security device and information media in the preparations for the defection of LITAINT-1.

LIFEAT provided excellent leads on Nicaraguan exile activities while also providing an independent check on agent LITANGO-1.

LIFEAT was employed for protective security in connection with the dismissal of LIVESTOCK-2 until 18 March, at which time it was decided that LIVESTOCK-2 no longer posed a threat to the Station's security.

## b. Processing of Material

No changes have been made in the processing of either LIFEAT reels or LIFEAT derived intelligence.

## c. Liaison

No change.

## d. Security

LIVERY remained out of operation due to the extensive telephone company renovation work being carried on in the vacinity of the LIVERY basehouse.

## e. Technical

No change.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

# SECRET

## JUMMA-14856
1764

## f. Coverage

LIMERICK 5 lines
LITMUS 2 lines
LIERODE and related
lines 5 lines
American Communists 1 line
Targets of Opportunity 3 lines (two of these lines terminated
mid-March, and one teriminated
3 March.)

## g. Personnel

No change.

2. a) During March 1960, twenty-seven (27) reels were passed to ODENVY from LIFEAT coverage of American Communists in Mexico. Reels from the LIENVOY coverage of Sam BROOKS continued to be passed to ODENVY as LIFEAT material for their processing.

b) The following reports, cables, information dispatches, and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT during the month of February 1960:

HMMA-14618 HMM-4803 MEXI-5267
HMMA-14624 HMM-4836 MEXI-5275
HMMA-14672 HMM-4843 MEXI-5283
HMMA-14677 HMM-4849 MEXI-5287
HMMA-14683 MEXI-5296
HMMA-14700 MEXI-5332
HMMA-14711 MEXI-5353
HMMA-14718 MEXI-5361
HMMA-14719 MEXI-5367
HMMA-14731

Twenty-one (21) memoranda were passed to ODACID and one (1) to ODENVY during the month of March 1960 which were based on LIFEAT acquired information,

19 April 1960

Distribution:
3 - WHD
2 - Files

Willard C-Cortis
Willard C. CURTIS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico

SUBJECT: LIFEAT Monthly Report - February 1960

ACTION REQUIRED: Information only.

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with FN 52-670, paragraph 3 (c) (2):

## a. Processing of Information

No changes have been made in the manner of processing LIFEAT material.

## b. Exploitation of leads

LIMERICK provided the identitites of several contacts of RIS officer, Alexander PRIKHODKO. This coverage also revealed the possible sale of property located near the Soviet Embassy to the Soviets. LIMERICK further provided coverage of the activities of suspect RIS agent, Gabriel UKAEGBU. LIMERICK also provided support for the AEIMPULSE operation.

LIFEAT continued to be employed as a protective security aid in connection with the dismissal of LIVESTOCK-2.

LIERODE has provided an independent check on agent LITANGO-1, and coverage of Cuban intelligence operations. LIERODE also provided a lead on Santiago GARCES Arroyo, who is to establish a Cuban secret service.

## c. Liaison

No change

## d. Security

LIVERY continued to be out of operation due to telephone company renovation work in the vicinity of the LIVERY base house.

## e. Technical

No new developments.

## f. Personnel and Administration

Jeremy L. NIARCOS (p) reported to Mexico City Station to replace Gene F. BRADDOCK (p) as assistant case officer in the LIFEAT operation.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

# SECRET

HMMA-14688
1756

g. During February 1960, the following lines were in operation:

LIMERICK 5 lines
LITMUS 2 lines
LIERODE and 5 lines
related lines
American Communists 1 line (coverage was resumed on 23 February)
Targets of Opportunity 1 line

2. During February 1960, seven (7) reels were passed to ODENVY from LIFEAT coverage of American Communists in Mexico. Reels from the LIENVOY coverage of Sam BROOKS, American Communist residing in Mexico City, were passed to ODENVY as LIFEAT material for their processing.

3. The following reports, cables, information dispatches, and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT during the month of February 1960:

| HMMA  | MEXI  | HMM  |
| ----- | ----- | ---- |
| 14448 | 5076  | 4761 |
| 14457 | 5079  | 4762 |
| 14458 | 5086  | 4768 |
| 14468 | 5088  | 4771 |
| 14504 | 5094  | 4790 |
| 14511 | 5155  |      |
| 14512 | 5158  |      |
| 14514 | 5160. |      |
| 14517 | 5213. |      |
| 14571 | 5221  |      |

Twenty-three memoranda were passed to ODACID and six to ODENVY during February 1960 which were based on LIFEAT produced information.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

15 March 1960

Distribution:
3 - WHD
2 - Files


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico

SUBJECT: Operational

LIFAT Monthly Report - January 1960

ACTION REQUIRED: Information only

REFERENCES: FRM-A-14403, 22 January 1960

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with FI 52-670 paragraph 3(c)(2):

## A. Processing of Information

No changes have been made in the manner of processing LIFFAT material.

## B. Exploitation of Leads

LIFFAT continues to be utilized as a protective security measure in connection with the dismissal of LIVESTOCK-2.

LIVERY provided several useful leads for the Case Officer.

LITMUS provided information enabling the Station to identify a safehouse presently used by the Polish IS.

LIERODE continues to be a major source of information regarding exile activities.

LIMERICK material provided information on Soviet communications which was forwarded to HQS for KUTUBE D processing.

## C. Liaison

No change.

## D. Security

LIVERY lines were suspended due to the activity of telephone company personnel involved in the installation of new cables in the area continuous to the LIVERI basehouse. No other security problems were encountered.

## E. Technical

No new developments.

## F. Personnel and Administration

No change.

## G. Miscellaneous

During the month of January 1960 the following lines were in operation:

LIMERICK 5 lines

LITMUS 2 lines

LIVERY 2 lines(off for security reasons for a part of the month)

LIERODE and related lines 7 lines(one discontinued during this period)

American Communists 1 line (off on 13 January)

Remove from Project lines

CS Classification:

JOB # 18-175/77

Box: 2 Fold: 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH HI-A-14573
1751

Eleven reels were given CDENVY from LIFAT coverage of American
Communists in addition to which reels from LEDENVJI coverage of
Sam BROOKS, American Communist, were also passed to ODEVY for
processing as being LIFFAT material.

2. The following reports, dispatches, cables and memoranda were based
   wholly or in part on LIFAT material during January 1960:

MEXI-4898 MEXI-4912 MEXI-4913 MEXI-4915 EXI-4917
MEXI-4919 MEXI-4926 EXT-4935 MEXI-4939 149141
MEXI-4954 MX-4950 MEXI-4990 100-50041 MEXI-5021
MEXI-5028 1EXI-5031
101-14355 ЮГА-372 HA-3922 100A-14393 A-14394
НА-14403- HCA-14415 HICA-1417 100A-141:21
HANA-14317 SA-14418 10CA-141:22 100A-14125 HIDA-14433
HIPA-1436 -بل HIC-A-14448
H-4703 19-7-4704 MT:-4706 :-4707 HCM-4710
HI-M-4711 H-4712 10-21-4718 1021-4724 H2-4726
1001-4729 123-4737 H-4742

During the month of January 1960, nineteen memoranda were passed to
ODACID, five to ODEVY and two each to WIDEX, ODUNIT andOLOΑ ΤΗ
attaches which were based on LIFEAT Information.

![signature of Willard C. CURTIS]

Willard C. CURTIS

26 February 1960

Distribution:

3 - HQS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

# DISPATCH

TO Chief, WHD

FROM Chief of Station, Mexico

SUBJECT LIFAT Monthly Report -
December 1959

ACTION REQUIRED Information only

REFERENCE(S) HW A-14253, 15 Dec. 1959

1. The following report is submitted in accordance with FN 52-670, paragraph 3(c)(2):

A. Processing of Information

No changes have been made in the manner of processing LIFEAT material.

B. Exploitation of Leads

LIMERICK provided information for Station action and also through live-monitoring gave protection to personnel involved in the activity with the LUNIK.

LIFEAT is still being used as a protective security measure in connection with the dismissal of LIVESTOCK-2.

LIERODE has revealed the identities of Cuban agents on the outside, i.e., in an unofficial position.

LIVERY provided the CO with information used in the KACHTIK Operation. (HM-A-14317, RYBAT-1300, 13 Jan. 1960.)

C. Liaison

No change.

D. Security

No problems encountered which have not been readily resolved by the personnel involved.

E. Technical

Nothing new to report.

F. Personnel and Administrative

No change.

G. Miscellaneous

During December 1959 the following lines were in operation:

LIMERICK 5 lines
LITMUS 2 lines
LIVERY 2 lines
LIERODE and related lines 6 lines
Targets of Opportunity 2 lines
American Communists 1 line

![AY]
![A3]
![TN]
![PS]
![BS]
![ES HPD]
![FI]
![RD]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

2. During December 1959. thirty-ono (31) reels were given ODEVY from LIFEAT coverage of American Communists in Mexico. Reels from the LIENVOY coverage of Sam BROOKS, American Communist, were passed to ODENVY as LIFEAT material for their processing.

3. The following reports, cables, information dispatches and memoranda were based wholly or in part on LIFEAT during December 1959:

HMM-A-14191
001-4672
HM-4691
H-4712
HMM-4667
102:4649
HP:-4640
HMM-4678
MEX1-4734
ΜΕΧΙ-4735
ΜΕΧΙ-4773
MEXI-4789
ΜΕΧΙ-4792
MEXI-4814
MEXI-4831
MEXI-4342
MEXI-48

Fifteen memoranda were passed to ODACID and rive to ODENVY during December 1959 which were based on LIFEAT provided information.

Willard C. CURTIS

20 Jan. 1960

Distribution:

3 - HOS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)