# SECRET

Chief of Station, Bangkok
Chief of Station, Rangoon
Chief, Far East Division
Chief of Station, Melbourne

Patrick PO HLA

References: A. DIRECTOR 34594
B. BANGKOK 3988
C. MELBOURNE 6905
D. BANGKOK 3809

Action Required: Please advise if still desired that Melbourne Station contact subject

1. In response to a brief letter from the undersigned, which queried his general plans, subject has replied per attachment. Please note that he can make himself available after 4 November 1968 for discussions with Melbourne. The Station defers to Bangkok and Director whether it is still desired that we summon subject to Melbourne for talks along the lines indicated in reference D.

2. For Rangoon: Note penultimate paragraph of subject's letter in which he indicates that his daughter and family are planning to leave Rangoon permanently. The manner in which this is phrased leaves it unclear whether they are attempting this overtly or working behind the scenes. The Station notes from BANGKOK 9542 of 1 May 1968 that the daughter is married to a Burma Air Force pilot. Since we do not have any names, it may be unlikely that Rangoon would have any information on the case.

Leslie H. GEVOLB

Attachment: herewith Letter

Distribution:
2-COS, Bangkok w/att 1 cy
1-COS, Rangoon w/att 1 cy
2-C/FE w/att 2 cys

FAMA 5803

SECRET

CS COPY

201-073217
10 October 1968.
(8 October 1968)
Not known


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Patrick rohen
C.A.E
KIETA
BOUGAINVILLE,
NEW GILINEA.
24 October 1968

Dear Mr.

I thank you for you lett on of. 23th September, rerouted here.

I am sorry I couldnt come and see you on my way here when passing through Theibine about a week ago.

I think I have an idea of the subject you wish to discuss with me. I met a friend in Thailand en route to Perth and he wanted me to join his business.

Anticipating to hear further from this source, I remained without taking up any job for some months.

I have rejoined the *Conzinc Rio* as Assistant Personnel Officer on the *Copper Programme*. This job can be terminated on one month's notice on either side although it's on a permanent basis.

I am an ardent anti-communist and dedicate my whole life to combating this enemy.

It's aiming to destroy our freedom. However one must make plans for one's future, I am reluctant to take up anything on a short-term basis. I would not like to be in another position like that of the old contract in Viet Nam, when renewal was not considered when it expired after two years, despite assurances when the offer was made, that there would be.

ALTO FAMA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

I worked very hard in Vietnam and my superiors and the Patriotic Police of Viet Nam appreciated my work. The Vietnamese Government awarded me with the rare award of the National Police Medal of Honour. I felt gratified though that my work was found meaningful although I could not understand the termination of minic. I am still very keen and will gladly come over to discuss with you after 4th. November when the Personnel Officer returns to duty, if you want me to. There is a very important point I wish to discuss concerning a personal matter which can delay my future work by a few months if everything works out satisfactorily after discussion. It concerns my daughter, Son-in-law and grandson who are intending to leave Rayon for good for Australia. I look forward to hearing from you in due course. Once again I thank you for your letter.

With best wishes,

Yours sincerely,

![signature]

(CJOHEA)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

VIETA
BOUGAINVILLE
NEW GUINEA.
24th October. 1968

Dear

I thank you for your letter of 23th September, re routed here.

I am sorry I could int come and see on my way here whiles passing though Melborne a week ago.

I think I have an idea of the subject you want to discuss will me. I met a friend in the en route to Perth and he wanted me to join his t

Anticipating to hear further from this source, I remain without taking up any job. for nearly five mont 9 have rejoined the Couzue Rio Tinto as Am Personnel Office on the op Roger here. 5

Job can be terminated by one months notes on s side although it's on a permanent basis.

I am an ardent anti-communist and can dedicate my whole life to combating this enemy is aiming to destroy our freedom. However,

one must make plans for one's future, I am reluctant to take up anything on a short-term basis. I would not like to be in another ponli like that of the old contract in Viet Nam, when renewal was not considered when it expired after two years, despite an assurance when the offer was made, that there would be no difficulty about the extension after the initial two years.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

I worked very hard in Vietnam and my superiors
and the National Police of Vietnam appreciated
my work. The Vietnamese Government awarded me
with the rare award of the National Police Medal
of Honour. I felt gratified though that my work
was found meaningful although I could not understand the
I am still very keen and will
gladly come over to discuss with you after
the 4th November when the Personnel Officer returns
to duty, if you want me to. There is a very
important point I wish to discuss concerning a
personal matter which can delay my future work
by a few months if everything works out
satisfactorily after discussion. It concerns my
daughter, son-in-law and grandson who are
intending to leave Rayong for good for Australia.
I look forward to hearing from you in
due course. Once again, I thank you for
your letter.

With best wishes,

Yours Sincerely,

Patrick

(POHLA)

201-072217


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)