2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

ATE : 19 AUG 62

SECRET

ROUTING

DIRECTOR

ROM: MEXICO CITY

AUG 19 01252 62

CTION: TFW 10

IFO: DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, WH 7, S/C 2

ROUTINE

IN 47827

DIR INFO SJAN WAVE CITE MEXI 1743

GYROSE

REF DIR 30436 (*OUT 66673*)

1. JEREMY K BENADUM, WHO HANDLES [LITEMPO VISA] CHANNEL, BELIEVES PRACTICALLY IMPOSSIBLE GET MEXICAN VISA BY APPROACHING MEXICAN CONSUL MIAMI OR SJAN. PROBLEM IS GETTING GOBERNACION VISA PERMIT. GOBERNACION HAS LITERALLY HUNDREDS OF APPLICATIONS STACKED UP ON WHICH ACTION NORMALLY BUROCRATICALLY SLOW ANYWAY AND ON WHICH GOBERNACION DOES NOT REALLY DESIRE TAKE ACTION, BECAUSE OF DANGER CUBANS WILL BECOME PUBLIC CHARGES. BEST CHANCE IS FOR ANY HIGH LEVEL MEXICAN OFFICIAL IN MEXICO CITY FRONT FOR AMBANG-1 AND FOLLOW UP CASE CLOSELY THROUGH GOBERNACION. NEXT BEST CHANCE IF A-1 HAS NO SUCH HIGH LEVEL CONTACT IS TO USE ANY CUBAN FRIEND OF HIS MEXI WHO HAS SUCH HIGH LEVEL MEXICAN CONTACT. THIS IS USUAL METHOD. USE OF [STATION LITEMPO] CHANNEL WOULD NOT NECESSARILY BURN ODYOKE INTEREST IN A-1 BECAUSE [HIGH LEVEL GOBERNACION OFFICIALS] SOMETIMES KNOWINGLY USE [LITEMPO VISA] CHANNEL THEMSELVES FOR "PERSONAL INTEREST" CASES AND MIGHT VERY WELL BE USING [THE CHANNEL] THEMSELVES [IN A-1'S CASE]. IF BY COINCIDENCE [A-1'S CUBAN FRIEND MEXI] HAPPENED TO APPROACH THEM. STATION HAS NOT DISCOURAGED SUCH USE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

DATE:

TO :

FROM :

ACTION:

INFO:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE 2

IN 47827 MEXI 1743

OF THE CHANNEL BECAUSE IT TENDS TO HELP EVERYONE WHO "IN ACT" TO KEEP MOUTHS SHUT AND TO KEEP CHANNEL FROM BEING BRANDED AS EXCLUSIVELY [ODYOKE.]

2. WOULD BE PREFERABLE FOR A-1 TO ZRY ON HIS OWN AS INDICATED. BUT MEXI CAN AND WILL ON REQUEST INITIATE AND FOLLOW THROUGH ON ACTION. IMPORTANT THING IS THAT ACTION NOT BE CARRIED ON BY A-1 AND STATION SIMULTANEOUSLY. THERE WILL BE NO NEED FOR STATION TO INTERVENE WITH MEXI CONSUL MIAMI ONCE VISA PERMIT ISSUED IF NO QUESTION A-1 CAN PROVE HIS ABILITY REENTER PBPRIME WITH SOME DOCUMENT. IF SUCH QUESTION ARISES, MEXI CONSUL WILL PROBABLY CONTACT STATION CASE OFFICER CINODACID (COVER ROLE) ON OWN. IF NOT A-1 CAN SUGGEST CALLING THEIR USUAL ODACID CONTACT MEXI.

3. PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S COMMENT: RE OBTAINING VISA FOR AMBANG/1.

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)