# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Source: Isidoro Esquerra Fernandez A1289162

UEGA 3513/27

Country Cuba

Subj (see below different reports)

Date of Info Prior to 7 Far 62

Date place acq Prior to ? Mur 62 Habana Cuba.

Source descript. Cuban national who was student at the University of Habana

1. The student resistance, organization in Habana is the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE, Student Revolutionary Directory).

One of its leaders is Lester Garcia Rosales who is the chief of finance for Habana Province. Roberto Quinteiros Santiso is the general coordinator of the DRE. He has an external line of communication, running out of Cuba, through an official of the Uruguayan Embassy in Habana. Quinteiros replaced Ricario Menendez, who is also known as "El SIKAI Chino" (the Chinaman). The letter was arrested by the Cuban security forces in January 1962 and is presently in prison.

2. The DRE has a clandestine propaganda newspaper called Trinchera, butatter it is publish on a very regular basis.

3. In order to finance its activities the DRE sells bonds in one and five peso denominations. however, because of the security conditions in Cuba, one must be very careful in selling the bonds or else he may sell one to a government agent who are constantly trying to provoke oppositionists to show themselves.

4. During the latter part of February 1962 two bombs exploded in the University of Habana. It was said that the bombing was done by the DRE.

The section of Habana known as Alturas del Bosque (roughly, the Heights of the Woods) is being heavily fortified by the Cuban Government.

This area is located on the north side of 23rd Street above the


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

page 2

wostra chore of the Almondares Miv r. It is said that incortent government
officiels also live in this area. Nevertheless, Leak this section has a commanding
λονхахахks of the city of Hana.


REPORT- SAME SCA

In all my bee in Habana and un:11 6 March 1962, the date of y
departure, I new saw more than 3 Cuban air force jotf planes in the air
at one time. I have talked to my friends, partialarly one who lives
near the airstrip at Campo libertad, an no one has coen more than this
number in the air at one time. This leaves us to believe that the
air forou does no biva as many fate as thyr aas they have.

19-120-19


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)