104-10413-10306 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Page count wrong. 86 pageo


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM: Chief, Latin America Division EXTENSION 1431 DATE 13 July 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                                                   | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom.. Draw a line across column after each comment,) |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------- | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| Mr. Russell Holmes O/EXO/CI                       |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 2.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 3.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 4.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| Mr. Scott Breckinridge Principal Coordinator/HSCA |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 5.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 6.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 7.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 8.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 9.                                                |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 10.                                               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 11.                                               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 12.                                               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 13.                                               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 14.                                               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |
| 15.                                               |               |           |                    |                                                                                                          |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

13 JUL 1978

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

VIA : Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

FROM : Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

1. Attached is a file folder titled "Yuri" which contains informal and preliminary research based on a theory that Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified man" observed entering and departing the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, Mexico, in October 1963. Ms. Christine Hopkins undertook to research the theory that MOSKALEV might be the unidentified man as a result of the indepth study she conducted as the Task Force Leader of this Division's efforts to determine if there could have been Cuban complicity in the John F. Kennedy assassination.

2. Although the material contained in the attached folder is entirely theoretical and does not constitute an official file or position of this Division or Agency it may be of interest to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell of the HSCA.

3. It is requested that you review the material contained in the file folder and, if you consider it appropriate, make the material available for Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell to review with the understanding that it is a theoretical unofficial research undertaking.

Raymond A. Warren

1 Attachment as stated

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 12180


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

UNCLASSIFIED

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

CONFIDENTIAL

SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:

Chief, Latin America Division

EXTENSION NO.

1431

DATE

13 July 1978

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

DATE

OFFICER'S
INITIALS

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

RECEIVED

FORWARDED

1. 
O/EXO/CI

2. 
3. 
4. 
5. 
6. 
7. 
8. 
9. 
10. 
11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FORM 610 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

CONFIDENTIAL

INTERNAL
USE ONLY

UNCLASSIFIED

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

JUL /8

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Scott Breckinridge
Principal Coordinator/HSCA

VIA : Mr. Russell Holmes
O/EXO/CI

FROM : Raymond A. Warren
Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

1. Attached is a file folder titled "Yuri" which contains informal and preliminary research based on a theory that Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified man" observed entering and departing the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City, Mexico, in October 1963. Ms. Christine Hopkins undertook to research the theory that MOSKALEV might be the unidentified man as a result of the indepth study she conducted as the Task Force Leader of this Division's efforts to determine if there could have been Cuban complicity in the John F. Kennedy assassination.

2. Although the material contained in the attached folder is entirely theoretical and does not constitute an official file or position of this Division or Agency it may be of interest to Mr. Blakey and Mr. Cornwell of the HSCA.

3. It is requested that you review the material contained in the file folder and, if you consider it appropriate, make the material available for Messrs. Blakey and Cornwell to review with the understanding that it is a theoretical unofficial research undertaking.

Raymond A. Warren

1 Attachment as stated
DDO/C/LA/STB/WSturbitts:esm (X9127) (13 Jul 78)
Distribution:
Orig - Addressee w/att
1 - O/EXO/CI w/o att
1 - C/LA w/o att
1 - C/LA/STB w/o att
1 - LA/CO/CIOS w/o att

SECRET

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 12180


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

April 1977

SUBJECT: Theory re MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich and
Unidentified Man

That Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV might be identifiable with the "unidentified man" going into and coming out of the Soviet Embassy in Mexico City in October 1963. The "unidentified man" was recently identified by SLIPSTREAM as a KGB type by name of "Yuri" whom he knew in Moscow in 1964.

- According to travel records MOSKALEV was in the USSR in 1964.; in the U.S. in October 1963 .

- MOSKALEV functions officially as a Soviet scientist and often attends international conferences. He has been in contact with known GRU Soviet diplomat in the U.S.

MOSKALEV bears a striking resemblance to composite of "Saul" in book Appointment in Dallas who claims he was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. "Saul" claims:

- he crossed border into U.S. illegally and was in Dallas on 20 November.

- That he had been to Mexico City, had a contact in Soviet Embassy there, in 1963, and that he knew the identity of OSWALD because he (OSWALD) had been fingered to him in Mexico City.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

- that OSWALD was involved in the Kennedy assassination plot, but that he, "Saul", fired shots that killed Kennedy.

- that two hours after the assassination he, "Saul", was out of the U.S. That he used limp as a disguise.

QUESTIONS

1.  Could MOSKALEV be "Saul"?

2.  Could MOSKALEV, therefore, be mystery man who boarded plane in Mexico City for Havana on 22 November 1963?

3.  Was assassination a Soviet comspiracy without Cuban knowledge?

RECOMMENDATION

1.  Can we obtain voice tape of MOSKALEV, since he has delivered speeches at scientific conferences in U.S. and abroad?

2.  If so, could we arrange to have McDonald (unwittingly) hear it, to see if he recognizes it as that of "Saul"?

Chris Hopkins
LAD/JFK Task Force


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

1. Can we find , hote that PENKOVSKY identified of MOSKALEVSKIY.

2. May I see PENKOVSKIY's 201 file for period 61-63?

3. Get photos and check out MOISEEV and BABKOV.

4. Via CI Staff, find out if we can show photo to DERYABIN and ROSTVOROFF?

5. Could MOSKALEV be Dept 13? Could OSWALD have met with him in Mexico City clandestinely in 1963?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SECRET

26 March 1977

SUBJECT: Juriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

DOB: 23 July 1920

POB: Iguamnovo, USSR

HGT: 172 Centimeters

Hair: Brown (medium light)

Eyes: Gray

Wife: Married to Vera Nikolayevna STRELTSOVA

Children:

Education: Unknown

Misc.: Became a Communist Party member in 1951

Was allegedly imprisoned during war because
of his German descent or for black market
dealings.

Occ: As of May 1973 was with Institute of Biophysics
of the Soviet Ministry of Health. (Dr. of
Medical Sciences.) Prof.

1922 - Family moved to Leningrad.

48-70- Lived in Moscow

1958 - Became head of Division of Institute of
Biophysics, Soviet Ministry of Public Health

1951-53 Head of Patho physiology Lab, Inst. of
Biophysics.

1952 - Last half of year, had a month's TDY at
Biophysical Lab. in Moscow.

1953 - When source (Dr. Wilhelm MENKE ) STIB, left
as Chief of Pathphysiological Lab. at
Sungol in Oct. 53, MOSKALEV took that position.
He reportedly was not well qualified.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

## Personal Misc.

1. Very adept diplomat - finds it easy to adopt conversation to group he is with.

2. Excellent chess player, patient with both adults and children.

3. Has dasha near Moscow.

4. Reads, writes, and comprehends English well, but speaks it with less proficiency. Reportedly speaks it much better after few drinks. (He is careful about drinking, if he drinks at all, in relation to attending conferences.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

# 2

26 Dec 62 CIA-A-3.246.539

Re International Conference on Diagnosis and Treatment of Radioactive Poisoning, Vienna, Aust. 15-18 Oct 62. "Most interesting aspect of meeting was conduct ad contributions of Prof. MOSKALEV of USSR Academy of Sciences. His subject was listed as "Uptake and Retention of Plutonium in Man"; no abstract was presented. When he spoke he changed the title to "Problems of Kenetics of Uptake and Retention of Radioisotopes." His paper presented nothing new and can be described as elementary. He apparently spoke no English.

19 Jan 63 ООВ 3,248,156.

Information from another source on the above conference. Dr. D. J. SEMENOV and Dr. I.T. TRUGUBENKO ? were invited to attend. The Soviets sent instead, Prof. MOSKALEV. He was bright, but not individual who should have been sent representing the USSR at this meeting. Was said to be his first time out of the USSR. / CDH coment - not so.7

9 July 63 DF-440

Source: AEDAZZLE-1 (doi 1961) identified photo (not by name, nor was name supplied) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY Air Force Col. and GRU officer in Information Directorate of GRU who attended a meeting in London in May or June 1961.

21 Aug 63 OOB 3,271,609

MOSKALEV participated at meeting of IAEA panel on Toxicity of Incorporated Radio- nuclides, Vienna, Austria 4-8 June 63.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

18 Oc2 63

OOB 3,278,069

Re Symposium in Vienna, Austria from 26-31 August 63. The Soviets sant a small three or four member delegation headed by MOSKALEV "a very personable and diplomatic gentleman." At the end of the conference MOSKALEV voiced his dismay that the Soviets had misunderstood the exact point of the meeting and had presented very minor papers.

3 Dec 63

OOB 3,283,411

Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining & Milling, Vienna, Austria late Aug 63. "Due to misunderstanding in USSR, topics covered by symposium were not known sufficiently in advance for Soviet scientists to contribute papers on other than nuclear toxicology." All papers were given by Dr. L. N. BURYKINA in the absence of MOSKALEV et al.

10 Dec 63

FRI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

30 Dec 63 - OOB 3,286,351

MOSKALEV atttended Symposium on Radio-
logical Health and Safety, Austria,
26-31 Aug 63.

23 Jan 64 - OOB 3,288,475

IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation,
Brookhaven, Long Island, N.Y. Oct 63.
MOSKALEV, one of the Soviet delegates
was frequent commentator on other people's
work and made a practice of denigrating
their reports with respect to radiation
lethality.
Sources (3 U.S. scientists) were asked
if they thought MOSKALEV's objectives
were motivated from anything more than
genuine scientific position. They
responded. "Who can say?" MOSKALEV,
both from papers he gave and his questions
and comments in discussion, indicated he
was *very sharp* The paper he gave
presented no new data. His paper said
nothing specific.

24 Oct 66 - OOB 321,15482-66

About one third of the Soviets expected
at the Third Int'l Congress of Radiation
Research put in appearance. The papers
were disappointing. A paper written by
MOSKALEV and V.A. STRELTSOVA was not
impressive.

16 Oct 67 - OOB 321,30340-67

MOSKALEV attended the Second Int'l
Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone
Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley,
Idaho, 12-14 Sept 67. He presented
an interesting paper. He was not expected
at the meeting and came alone, arriving
two days early. He had furnished no brief
and it was a surprise tohear his paper. He
understands English reasonably well, but
speaks it less well. Therefore, his
appearance alone at the conference was even
more unusual. He became very interested
in visiting a certain U.S. facility, and
pursued arrangements to visit it. U.S. Gov't


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

- 5 -

clearance and permission to visit were obtained, but he "backed-out" (after all had been arranged) saying it was too much trouble for U.S. persons and authorities concerned.

16 Oct 67

OOB 321,27474-67

MOSKALEV participated in Second Int'l Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He had travelled alone to Sun Valley and apparently was able to use his knowledge of English language to get along on his own. However, he complained to Chairman of conference that he did not know enough English to read his paper which also required condensation because it was too long for the time allowed. A colleague who had known MOSKALEV from previous meetings said MOSKALEV's knowledge of English improved greatly after a few drinks. However, he did not drink at all during this conference. He did mention that he had written the English version of the paper he presented himself. A respected U.S. scientisi with nore experience than MOSKALEV said he frankly did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. (Said this in private.) MOSKALEV attempted to make propaganda of a report by a West German. MOSKALEV left the conference a little upset. He took copious notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera. From questions he asked in private, it was obvious he understood English quite well. Considerable time was spent in arranging visit to a U.S. lab. in route to his home. He took a different route, without telling anyone of plans, and did not visit the Tab


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

1 Feb 70

1 Jul 70

OOB 321/17309-70.

Fnu MOSKALEV and P.V. RAMZAYEV were scheduled to attend the Biology & Ecology of Polonium and Radiolead Conf. Sutton, U.K. 30 Apr to 1 May 70, but apparently were not permitted by the USSR to attend.

24 Aug 70

OOB 321/20573-70

MOSKALEV was among Soviet delegation to Second Int'l Congress on Radiation Protection, Brighton, U.K. 3-8 May 70. MOSKALEV personally attended virtually every session and was very busy asking many questions. He asked all questions through an interpreter, but when answers were given, in English, he always seemed to understand without benefit of his interpreter.

13 Nov 70

OOA(S) 322/33488-70

Sept 70 MOSKALEV visited a U.S. facility devoted to research in field of nuclear medicine. "It is obvious that he is a careful and trustworthy worker."
Visited Brookhaven in Oct 63; Sun Valley in 67; and Hanford Biology Symposium 69.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

24 Aug 71 U.S. Embassy Moscow Airgram

26 Sept 71 Science Berkeley Lab. 600254

Four Soviet scientists, MOSKALEV, MOISEEV, NENOT and MASSE, participated at the same Transuranium Biology Symposium at Hanford during week of Sept 26. They were in San Francisco by chance at the same time and desired to visit Berkeley on the same day. They did not travel to the conference together. It all seemed to be coincidental. Drs. MOSKALEV and MASSE reportedly understood more English than they could speak. Dr. MOSKALEV was the USSR's rep. on ICRP internal dose committee.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

-, 8 -

23 Dec 71 OOE 324/37776-71

Dr. Yuriy I. MOSKALEV, Inst. of Biophysics,
Min. of Public Health, visited several
U.S. biological and biophysical research
facilities. During that time it was
learned that he was chairman of the USSR
equivalent to the U.S. National Council
on Radiation Protection. In this position
Dr. Aleksey A. MOISEEV (Central Advanced
Institute for Training of Physicians, Moscow)
was MOSKALEV's secretary.

25 Oct 71 Letter to U.S. Atomic Energy Commission from

![signature indicating BATTEFFE, Pacific, Wildwec, Jaboratoria]

12 May 73 U.S. Embassy Moscow files

Y

Chris Hopkins


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# SUBJECT: Passports Used by MOSKALEV, Yuriy

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich

MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich

1957 PP #
Unknown

1962 S-012960

1963 S-022766
S-012960

1964 S-022766

1965 S-022766

1967 0-113459

1968 T-286915

1970 0-286915
S-201222-

1971 S-201222

1972 0-068765
S-201222

1974 Unknown

MOSKALEV has following birthdates:

23 July 1920

17 January 1920

21 July 1920

1930


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

TRAVEL

| NAME                         | DPOB    | OCC   | PP#       | DATE      | FROM-TO        |
| ---------------------------- | ------- | ----- | --------- | --------- | -------------- |
| MOSKALEV, Juriy Ivanovich    | -       | Chem  | -         | [Sept 57] | USSR   France  |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 1920    | -     | S-012960  | Oct 62    | Aust.  USSR    |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 1920    | -     | -         | Oct 62    | USSR   Aust.   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 23/7/20 | Biol. | S-012960  | Oct 62    | USSR   Aust.   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 23/7/20 | Phys. | S-022766  | May 63    | USSR   Aust.   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 1920    | -     | S-022766  | 30/6/63   | Poland Aust.   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 1920    | -     | S-022766  | 8/6/63    | Aust   USSR    |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich    | 23/7/20 | Scie. | S-012960  | Oct 63    | USSR   USA     |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich    | 23/7/20 | Scie  | S-012960  | Oct 63    | USA    Denmark |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich    | 23/7/20 | Scie  | S-012960  | Oct 63    | USSR   USA     |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich    | 23/7/20 | Scie  | S-012960  | Oct 63    | USA    Denmark |
| MOSLAKEV , YuriyIvanovich    | 23/7/20 | Scie. | S-------- | Oct 63    | USSR   USA     |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich | 23/7/20 | --    | S-012960  | Oct 63    | USA    Denmark |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Mikhailovich | 23/7/20 | --    | S-012960  | Oct 63    | Denmark USSR   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 23/7/20 | Medl. | S-022766  | 9/11/64   | -      Aust.   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy              | 1920    | --    | S-022766  | 14/11/64  | USSR   Aust.   |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

| NAME                        | DPOB    | OCC   | PP#      | DATE     | FROM-TO        |
| --------------------------- | ------- | ----- | -------- | -------- | -------------- |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy             | 1920    | --    | S-022766 | 15/4/65  | Aust USSR      |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy             | 1920    | --    | S-022766 | 10/5/65  | Czech Aust     |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy             | 1920    | --    | 0-113459 | 8/9/67   | USSR Can       |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy             | 1920    | --    | 0-113459 | 8/9/67   | Cam USA        |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy             | 1920    | --    | 0-113459 | 8/9/67   | Can USA        |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Prof. | --       | 8/9/67   | USSR USA       |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Stu   | 0-113459 | 8/9/67   | Can USA        |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Chem. | T-286915 | 4/4/68   | -- UK          |
| MOSKAEEE, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Chem. | T-286915 | 11/4/68  | UK --          |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   |         | --    | --       | 1/2/70   | -- UNNY        |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Biol. | 0-286915 | 2/5/70   | -- UK          |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Biol. | 0-286915 | 16/5/70  | UK --          |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | --    | S-201222 | 11/70    | USA Suis       |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Biol. | S-201222 | 15/4/71  | USSR UK        |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | Biol. | S-201222 | 25/4/71  | UK USSR        |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 1930    | --    | --       | 26/9/71  | USSR NXXX USA  |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | --    | S-201222 | 10/71    | USSR XXXXX USA |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | --    | S-201222 | 17/10/71 | USA USSR       |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivancich    | 23/7/20 | Biol. | S-201222 | 25/4/71  | UK USSR        |
| MOSKALEV 1, Yuriy Ivanovich | 1930    | --    | --       | 26/9/71  | USSR USA       |
| MOSKALVE, Yuriy Ivanovich   | 23/7/20 | --    | S-201222 | 10/71    | USSR USA       |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

| NAME                      | DPOB    | OEE  | PP#      | DATE       | FROM | TO   |
| ------------------------- | ------- | ---- | -------- | ---------- | ---- | ---- |
| MOSKALEE, Yuriy Ivanovich | 23/7/20 | --   | S-201222 | [17/10/71] | USA  | USSR |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich | 23/7/20 | Prof | 0-068765 | 11/11/72   | -    | UK   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich | 23/7/20 | Biol | S-201222 | 15/11/72   | UK   | ==   |
| MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich | 23/7/20 | --   | --       | [9/ 3/74]  | -    | Suis |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

![photo of Yuriy Ivanovich Moskalev]

USSR CONFIDENTIAL CIA-P-312403
MOSKALEV, YURIY IVANOVICH. 1971.
INSTITUTE OF BIOPHYSICS,
MOSCOW.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET

April 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Possible Identity of the "Unidentified Man"

Photographed in Mexico City in October 1963

REFERENCES: A. Photos Taken in Mexico City by Mexico City Station

B. Paperback Boob "Appointment in Dallas"

C. Soft File, Headquarters Information on

Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, Possible

"Unidentified Man"

1. Photographs of the unidentified man were taken by our Mexico City Station on 2,3,4, and 15 October 1963, going into or coming out of both the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City. Copies were provided to the FBI in Dallas, Texas on 22 November 1963. Although cropped copies have appeared in various works, including Volume XX, page 691, of the Warren Commission Report, and the book "Appointment in Dallas", to our knowledge the individual has never been identified.

2. On 17 March 1977, a former member of the Cuban General Directorate of Intelligence (DGI) recognized photographs of the unidentifid man as Yuri LNU, a KGB officer, whom he met in Moscow in 1964 while attending an intelligence course there. He said that Yuri, a fluent English and Spanish speaker, was acting as a trouble shooter for the Cuban group, about 15, attending the course. Yuri lived with


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

- 2 -

the Cuban and Bulgarian groups quartered in the same building in Moscow. Any time the Cubans had a problem, Yuri would solve it for them. Yuri was a good friend of Juan (pseudo) a KGB officer who taught the Cubans about the Agency (CIA) and the West German intelligence apparatus. Juan told the DGI member that he had served in Mexico for about 20 years and in the U.S. clandestinely for about 10 years (specific dates unknown). Yuri was entrusted with their welfare only, and did not attend classes with the Cuban group.

3. SE/X travel records were reviewed in search of an individual by the name of Yuri who possibly fit the description of the unidentified man. This lead to an individual by the name of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV, a Soviet, reportedly a Doctor of Medical Sciences, who has participated in international scientific conferences for the USSR since 1962 or earlier. Although there is no official 201 file on MOSKALEV, there is a sizable dossier on him in the Central Reference Service. Many of the documents in his dossier are 00 reports from U.S. scientists concerning MOSKALEV's attendance and behavior at scientific meetings. It is obvious that he has a much greater knowledge of the English language than he admits. His capability is said to improve greatly after a few drinks; however, it is noted that he rarely, if ever, drank at the scientific meetings. It is also noted that on occasions he reportedly was not qualified to represent the Soviets at a particular conference. His papers rarely, if ever, were specific, or presented new data.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

- 3 -

Following are items of interest from selected documents in MOSKALEV's CRS dossier:

a. In 1961 PENKOVSKY identified a photo (with no name provided) as that of Col. Yuriy Ivanovich *MOSKALEVSKIY*, Air Force Col.and GRU officer in the Information Directorate of the GRU.

b. In December 1963 the FBI reported

c. In October 1963 MOSKALEV was a delegate to the IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiation, Brookhaven, Long Island, New York. Described by U.S. scientists as very sharp, MOSKALEV was a frequent commentator on other people's work and made a practice of denigrating their reports with respect to radiation lethality.

d. In October 1967 MOSKALEV participated in the Second International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides, Sun Valley, Idaho, arriving two days early. He


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

travelled a . . . o Sun Valley and appare . . . was able to use
his knowledge of the English language to get along on his own.
Although he complained about not knowing much English, he
admitted writing the English version of the paper he presented.

MOSKALEV attempted to make propaganda of a paper by a West
German scientist. A respected U.S. scientist said he fran-ly
did not believe MOSKALEV's findings. MOSKALEV took copious
notes on all papers, which indicated he understood what was
going on. He also took many pictures with a 35 mm camera.
From questions MOSKALEV asked, it was obvious that he knew
English quite well. Although considerable time was spent
arranging for MOSKALEV to visit a U.S. laboratory en route to
his home, he took a different route, without telling anyone
of his plans, and did not visit the lab.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

STATE

4. On 23 March 1977 several identification experts of the Disguise and Identification Section of OTS/GAD compared photos of the unidentified man with photos of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV from the FBI, British Liaison, and CRS. It was their opinion that MOSKALEV could very likely be identifiable with the unidentified man.

5. Page 59 of the book "Appointment in Dallas," shows an Identi-Kit Model composite of an individual who told the author in London in 1972 that he was involved in the assassination of President Kennedy. The composite of that individual (code name "Saul"), whose real name is unknown to the author, bears a striking resemblance to the photos of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. According to the author "Saul"identified the picture shown in the Warren Commission Exhibit #237 as having been taken at the Russian Embassy in Mexico City, either in the foyer or just outside.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

6. The author of the aforementioned book, Hugh C. McDonald, is the inventor of the Identi-Kit and at one time was under contract to CIA in regard to the Identi-Kit. McDonald claims in his book that he met "Saul" at an office in CIA Headquarters sometime after the Bay of Pigs invasion, and that a colleague of McDonald told him that "Saul" was an assassin.

7. There are striking parallels between the backgrounds of "Saul" as given in McDonald's book, and MOSKALEV. For example:

| "Saul"                                                                                                                                                                               | MOSKALEV                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Pg. 7 - CIA allegedly knew of Saul. McDonald said he first met Saul in CIA Hqs. CIA took picture of Saul that started McDonald's investigation.                                      | According to Office of Security, McDonald has been in touch with CIA in relation to his Identi-Kit. His states he was a cleared source of LAFO/DCS - doi September 1969. (contract agent) |
| Pg. 59 - See Identi-Kit composite of "Saul".                                                                                                                                         | It is true that Mexico City Station took photos of "Saul" that McDonald claimed started his investigation.                                                                                |
| Pg. 60/61 - McDonald states it was obvious that FBI and CIA were compromised at the very top since both Agencies denied knowledge of "Saul". Noone wanted to hear anymore about him. | CDH comment: See photos of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV. He bears striking resemblance to "Saul."                                                                                             |
| Helms, the DDP testified under oath that he didn't know "Saul."                                                                                                                      |                                                                                                                                                                                           |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

Pg. 69 - MeDomし、 egan his search
of "Saul" in 1970. It began, he
said, with a call from an uniden-
tified woman who arranged a meeting
in London and told him she believed
the Russians had a germ warfare
installation in Vozrozdenya, in
the Aral Sea. licDonald obtained
CIA approval to make contact.

Pg. 70 - In Germany in 1945
McDonald knew of 12 people
(Poles, Czechs, Rumanians,
Germans, Scandinavians, 2 Russians)
who feared and hated Russia. They
formed org. to observe, analyze,
and report all future activities
within Russia and Russia sphere
of control. Most had legitimate
jobs.

Pg. 71 - 24 Sept 70 McDonald
left for London with "Saul's"
picture. McDonald said both he
and Saul were *contract men* for
CIA. Saul did dangerous jobs
for private interests.

Pg. 73 - McDonald learned that on
Island of Vozrozdenya, Aral Sea,
germ warfare was being planned
against U.S. (Russians transmit
germs in *iet* streams).

Note ALEV's scientific
background and travel.
He was in the U.K. in 68,70,
71 and 72. Background is
biophysics. MOSKALEV's
(GRU)
contact BUBNOV/"specialized
in chemical warfare".

MOSKALEV was allegedly
imprisoned during war because
of his German descent or for
black market dealings. Could
he be a double agent?

McDonald met Saul in London
July 72. MOSKALEV travel shows
him in London Nov 72.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

Pg. 75 - McDonald showed photo of Saul to man. Man asked if McDonald's interest had to do with murder of Pres. in 1963. McDonald said no, he wanted to talk to him (Saul) on business.

Pg. 76 - By now McDonald was sure that "Saul" was reasonably well-known in highly specialized circles on the European continent. MOSKALEV is known in international circles as scientist.

Pg. 81 - McDonald says that co-relation between activity on Vozrozdenya and new types of influenza in U.S. is disturbingly exact.

Pg. 92. - Man told McDonald in summer of 1970 on outskirts of Gormisch, that he was dying from radiation sickness. Ile was flown to Vozrozdenya where he was lead to believe there was hospital that specialized in cases of radiation sickness and he would be looked after by famous doctors. Was interviewed by 3 Russian specialists: Emile KROPTATE, Peter GORSACH, Marion LENTZEN. MOSKALEV was delegate to 2nd International Congress on Radiation Protection, Brighton, U.K. 3-8 May 70.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

- 9 -

Pg. 95 - At hospital was
orderly by name of Ivan. There
were other young interns,
orderlies, etc., there.

Pg. 99 - Some momths before
Kennedy was killed, an inquiry
was being circulated, about
this man (Saul). Someone wanted
to contact him. Word went out that
someone needed his services.

Pg. 109 - An alleged former
(McDonald called Kimsey)
Agency employee/said the
scheme which "Saul" described
✓✓ to kill the president/
could not possibly have been
activated without help from
very high places in this country.
(U.S.)

Pg. 117 - Saul did not know he
was being called Saul.

Pg. 119 - Saul told Kimsey that
he often used limp as part of
his disguises.

Pg. 120 - In Zurick in 1972
McDonald saw four men. Three
Arabic and one who had a blunt,
Slavic fact with a broad-typed
nose, about 40.

MOSKALEV's middle name is
Ivanovich; so is BJBNOV'S.

Could this have been MOSKALEV?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

Pg. 121 - Kimsey felt that Saul was a middle-European, so probably grew up with German as second language. "Saul spoke English like an American."

Pg. 143 - "Saul" said he came back to the U.S. for a short period one time, lived in Southern Calif. for about a month, or six weeks, then moved to Mexico. Said business was good in Mexico, and that made it easy, or easier, to try to make contact with whoever was trying to make contact with him.

Pg. 164 - "Saul" said a contact he knew/ According to our records, MOSKALEV has much greater knowledge of English than he pretends or admits.

named Troit would have OSWALD in Mexico City, OSWALD was in Mexico City 26 Sept to 3 Oct.[^3] between those dates, and was in contact with the Cuban and Soviet Consuls.

and that OSWALD would call on both the Cuban Consul and Soviet Consud.

"Saul" said he did not have a photo of OSWALD but had a contact in the Soviet Embassy would do the job (identify OSWALD) for him. Saul said OSWALD did show up in Mexico City and was fingered to him. He sat close to him in restauratns and cafeterias.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

Page 167: "Saul" said he left for the U.S. in Nov 1963 but would not say how or where he crossed the border. On evening of the 20th of Nov he was in Dallas.

Page 177: "Saul" described how he shot President Kennedy from 2nd story window of County Records Bldg.,

Page 178: "Saul" said that he used "limp" disguise" out of bldg., and in 2 hours was out of the U.S.

McDonald said that as a professional assassin with international clientel,' "Saul" had to master the art of crossing borders illegally, so that no record is kept. False passports are easiest methods.

Could "Saul" be mystermy man who boarded plane for Havana? See DIRECTOR 36054. Flight from Mexico City reportedly delayed from 1700 to 2200 hours for passenger who arrived at 2130.

Page 182: McDonald remembers "Saul's" statement that long before the Warren Commission even existed he had been told that there was a possibility that such a bullet would be planted to tie in OSWALD's rifle positively to the shooting.

It therefore appears that the mere existence of CE No. 399 tends to prove the accuracy of "Saul"s statement and the presence of a conspiracy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

Page 185: McDonalc. he believes "Saul" was telling true story.

CDH - I do too.

Page 94: McDonald finds buck passing so pervasive that he cannot escape suspicion of a continued and officially backed cover-up.

Page 199: McDonald said he thinks Herman KIMSEY (what was true name?) was the mentor or contact for "Saul" wherever Saul worked with the Agency.

Can we identify KIMSEY? Was he really working for Agency?

Page 203: "Saul" moves from country to country, avoiding the U.S. except in extremis but keeping in touch with his contacts in Guatemala and Mexico. He calls THEM. Spends much time in Europe. Has no wife, children, or friends. Is voracious reader.

Page 204: "Saul" went into Westbury Hotel without a tie.

Page 205: "Saul" had recently given up smoking (1972?) but still had nicotine stains on fingers.

Does MOSKALEV smoke?

Chris Hopkins
LAD/JFK Task Force


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

27 September 63: OSWALD went to Cuban Embassy, Mexico City and made appoint for visa to Cuba on way to USSR. OSWALD to Soviet Embassy to get letter of recommendation. They wouldn't give it to him because they didn't know who he was.

OSWALD went to Soviet Embassy on 27 Sept.

" then went back to Cuban Emb. on 27 Sept.

Valery KOSTIKOV talked with Sylvia Duran and said Soviet had never heard of OSWALD.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# SUBJECT: Unidentified Man Seen Going into Cuban and Soviet

Embassies in Mexico City in Oct 1963.

Photos Taken by Mexico City Station

> [Figure: Two portrait photographs of an unidentified man. On the left, a close-up shot shows his head and shoulders. On the right, a photograph shows the man from the waist up.]
> ![photo of an unidentified man]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

> [Figure] The image shows two men wearing shirts and jeans. The man on the left is standing and looking down at something in his hands. The man on the right is kneeling and holding a black bag.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

> [Figure] Four images of a man. The top left image shows the man standing with his arms crossed in front of him. The top right image shows the man standing with his left arm extended to the side and his right hand on his hip. The bottom left image shows the man standing with his hands clasped in front of him. The bottom right image shows the man standing with his hands on his hips.

![photo of a man in four different poses]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# Subject: Unidentified Man

1. A photograph of this unidentified man was published in the Warren Commission report on the assassination of President Kennedy. Copies have also been widely distributed in news media by journalists critical of the Warren Commission investigation. The subject visited the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City during October 1963.

2. As of October 1963, he was described as:

   Apparent age: 35

   Athletic build

   About 6 feet tall

   Blond, receding hairline with balding top

   Wore khakis and sport shirt.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM: DCD/OSG/Alien Branch

203 Key Building

Case 53034

EXTENSION 2775

DATE 6 Apr 1977

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)

|                            | RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)                                                |
| -------------------------- | -------- | --------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 1. LA/COG/NY Attn: 3D 5325 |          |           |                    | REF: LA/COG-068-77, dated 3 Mar 77 Attached copy of memo SF-137-77, dated 29 March is in response to reference. Attached also are related photographs. |
| 2.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 3.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 4.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 5.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 6.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 7.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 8.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 9.                         |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 10.                        |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 11.                        |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 12.                        |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 13.                        |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 14.                        |          |           |                    |                                                                                                                                                        |
| 15.                        |          |           |                    | E 2 IMPDET CL BY 006875                                                                                                                                |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : Chief, Domestic Collection Division

ATTN : OSG/Alien

FROM : Chief, San Francisco Office

SF-137-77

DATE: 29 March 1977

SUBJECT: Case 53,034 - Resettlement Case

REF : ALN-71-77

1. Subject examined the photographs of the unidentified man very carefully but was unable to provide any information. We did not mention the fact that a photograph of the man had been published in the Warren Commission report until Subject said that he was unable to identify the man. Subject still could not make any comment about the identity of the man.

2. We are returning the photographs of the man as requested. We regret that Subject was unable to be of greater assistance on this matter.

![signature of E.T. Ames]

EBAmes:mm

Enc: Photographs

![signature of Charles R. Carlsen]

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 031686


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

☐ UNCLASSIFIED ☐ CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

FROM:
OTS/GAD/A/OPS 227 Central Bldg
EXTENSION NO.
2444
AB MEMO NO. 194
DATE
29 MARCH 1977

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DATE
OFFICER'S INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

1. DC/OTS/GAB/A
   29 mar 77

2. 
3. C/OTS/GAD

4. 
5. Deputy Chief, Latin America Div 3C2019 HQS

6. 
7. LAD/TASK FORCE

8. C Hopkins

9. 
10. 
For Febry
Omokaler

2 photos

1 from FBI (State)

Briefs

11. 
12. 
13. 
14. 
15. 
FORM 3-62 610 SECRET ☐ CONFIDENTIAL ☐ INTERNAL USE ONLY ☐ UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# SECRET

AB MEMO NO. 194
29 MARCH 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

ATTN : Chris Hopkins

FROM : Graphics and Authentication Division/Senior Operations Officer

SUBJECT : Photo Comparison

REFERENCE : DDO/LA Division Memo, dated 25 March 1977

1. On 23 March, Chris Hopkins of Latin America Division handcarried photographs to OTS/GAD for identification comparison. These photos were examined by the undersigned and two identification experts of the Disguise and Identification Section.

2. The results of the comparison is as follows:

A. Facial Shape - Close similarities, although there are slight differences which are probably due to subject's age differences.

B. Chin - Fair similarities-the loss of muscletone due to ageing is most apparent here.

C. Hair Line - Again good similarity with the natural ravages of time factored in.

D. Set and Proportion of Eyes and Eyebrows - Close similarities. (Comparison of eye detail is not possible due to poor photo quality)

E. Nose and Caliper Lines - Close similarities in the nose but the younger man has no sign of the distinctive caliper lines which extend from the nose to either side of the mouth on the known Soviet. This could be explained by loss of muscletone and/or differences in lighting.

F. Mouth - The shape, proportion and expression of the mouth and the whole area from the tip of the nose to the tip of the chin is perhaps the most distinctive characteristic of both subjects. Here the similarities are very close.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# SUBJECT: Photo Comaprison
PAGE -2-

G. The proportions of the head, check bones and the body style of
the younger man tend to indicate he is of slavic origin.

3. The results of this type comparison are rarely absolute and are
   usually limited by poor photo quality or differences in viewing angle.
   With that understood it is our opinion the two subjects of the forementioned
   photo comparison could very likely be the same person. If additional
   photographs of the subjects, particularly if they are of better quality,
   are obtained, we would be happy to examine those as well.

![signature]

Antonio J. Mendez
Senior Operations Officer,
OTS/Graphics and Authentication Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

NSMITTAL SLIP DATE

TO: Chris Hopkins, LAD/Task Force

ROOM NO. BUILDING

REMARKS:

FROM:

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION

FORM NO. 241 REPLACES FORM 36-6 WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 FEB 55 (47)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

SEGRET

35 MAR

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, OTS/GAB

ATTENTION : Acting Chief, OTS/GAR/DIS

FROM : George V. Lauder
Deputy Chief, Latin America Division

SUBJECT : Photo Comparison

This is the official follow-up, requested by you, of the visit to your office by Chris Hopkins on 23 March 1977 for the purpose of photo comparison. Although a preliminary analysis was given Ms. Hopkins at that time, it was understood that you would provide a written analysis for the record. Your assistance is much appreciated.

/s/ George V. Lauder
George V. Lauder

DDO/LAD Task Force/CHopkins:rp(25 Mar 77). 1839

Based on: Photos of unknown man taken in front of Soviet and Cuban Embassies in Mexico City in October 1963;
Photos of Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV.

Distribution:
Orig.&1- Addee
1- LAD/Task Force Chrono
1- Chris: Hopkins
1 DC/LA

E2 IMPDET
CI RV 056852

SEGRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

Source: Ramiro Perez Rodriguez

![image of a document] 3C 2019


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECRET

ALN-72-77
11 March 1977

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, Miami Field Office

FROM : Chief, Domestic Collection Division,
Operations Services Group, Alien Branch

SUBJECT : Case 57845

1. Please show the attached photographs of an unidentified man to Subject.. A photograph of this man was published in the Warren Commission report on the assassination of President Kennedy. Copies have also been widely distributed in news media by journal--ists critical of the Warren Commission investigation. The unidentified man visited the Cuban and Soviet Embassies in Mexico City during October 1963. As of October 1963, he was described as approximately 35, athletic build, about. 6 feet tall, blond receding hairline with balding top, and wore khakis and sport shirt.

2. We would appreciate any information Subject is able to provide on this man.

3. Should you obtain any OIR reports, please use referent CPLA-006877.

Attachments:
As stated

![signature of JACKSON R. HORTON]
JACKSON R. HORTON

E 2 IMPDET CL BY 006875

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

CONFIDENTIAL 181600Z MAR 77 STAFF

CITE DCD/MIAMI 13919

TO: DCD/HEADQUARTERS.

WNINTEL/WOMACE INTERNAL USE ONLY

MIAMI OIR-06870-77

SUBJECT : UNIDENTIFIED KGB OFFICER

REF : DCD CASE 57845
CFLA-006877

1. ON 17 MARCH 1977, A FORMER MEMBER OF THE CUBAN GENERAL
   DIRECTORATE OF INTELLIGENCE (DGI) WAS REQUESTED TO IDENTIFY AND
   PROVIDE INFORMATION ON AN UNIDENTIFIED MAN. THE FORMER DGI MEMBER
   IDENTIFIED THE MAN AS YURI (LNU), A KGB OFFICER, WHOM HE MET IN
   MOSCOW IN 1964 WHILE ATTENDING AN INTELLIGENCE COURSE IN THAT
   CITY, HE SAID THAT YURI, A FLUENT ENGLISH AND SPANISH SPEAKER,
   WAS ACTING AS A TROUBLESHOOTER FOR THE CUBAN GROUP, ABOUT 15,
   ATTENDING THE COURSE.

2. THE FORMER DGI MEMBER SAID THAT THE CUBAN GROUP, ALONG WITH
   THE BULGARIANS, WERE QUARTERED IN THE SAME BUILDING IN MOSCOW AND
   THAT YURI LIVED WITH THEM. ANYTIME THAT THE CUBANS HAD A PROBLEM
   YURI WOULD SOLVE IT FOR THEM. HE ALSO SAID THAT YURI WAS A GOOD
   FRIEND OF JUAN (PSEUDO), A KGB OFFICER WHO TAUGHT THE CUBANS ABOUT
   THE AGENCY AND THE WEST GERMAN INTELLIGENCE APPARATUS. JUAN TOLD
   THE FORMER DGI MEMBER ONE DAY THAT HE HAD SERVED IN MEXICO FOR
   ABOUT 20 YEARS AND IN THE US CLANDESTINELY FOR ABOUT 10 YEARS. AT
   THE TIME JUAN WAS ABOUT 55 YEARS OLD. YURI DID NOT ATTEND CLASSES
   WITH THE CUBAN GROUP. HE WAS ONLY ENTRUSTED WITH THEIR WELFARE.
   E2 IMPDET CL BY 011668

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

TI SMITTAL SLIP DA March

TO: Chris Hopkins

ROOM NO. BUILDING
3D57

REMARKS:

BU-4 Amber

FROM: Maillu LY/INFO

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION
1E41 1479

FORM NO -241
1 FEB 55


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

PROG:

AU - Moskalev VI
AU - Levdik TI
AU - Lyubchanskii ER
AU - Nifatov AP
AU - Erokhin RA
AU - Buldakov LA
AU - Lemberg VK
AU - Koshurnikova NA
AU - Filippova LG
AU - Ternovskii IA
TI - Metabolism and biological effects in rodents of Plutonium and other actinide elements. PP. 1214-32.
SO - In: Nygaard OF, et al., ed. Radiation research: biomedical, chemical, and Physical Perspectives. New York, Academic Press, 1975. WG IN558 197r. :


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

T SMITTAL SLIP DATE 25 Mar'1.

TO: Chris Hopkins

ROOM NO. BUILDING
3D 57

REMARKS:

BU-4

Ambaen

FROM: Mailly LY/INFO

ROOM NO. BUILDING EXTENSION
IE4I 1479

FORM NO. 241 REPLACES FORM 36-8 WHICH MAY BE USED.
1 FEB 55 (47)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

# Soviet Farx edities in Biomedic

ix

1974

2 (HELW publication)

NAME:

SPECIALIZATION: INTERNAL MEDICINE

CAREER POSITIONS: INST OF CARDIOLOGY IN A L HTASNIKOV, ANS USSR, M

PUBLICATIONS, ARTICLES: "CHANGES OF THE TOTAL AND REBAL HEMODYNASICS IN ORTHOSTATICS IN HEALTHY PERSONS AND IN ORTHOSTATIC

RYPOTRUSION (CO-A0)"

"COMPENSATORY CHANGES IN THE KIDNEYS IN UNILATERAL AFFECTIONS AND NEPHRECTORY" (CO-AU)"

"THE DIURETIC AND SYPOTENSIVE EFFECT OF UBEGIT (ETHACRIRIC ACID) (CO-AU)"

NAME:

SPECIALIZATION: CARDIOVASCULAR SURGERY

CAREER POSITIONS: DIV OF VASCULAR SURGERY, INST OF CARDIOVASCULAR SURGERY IS A N BAKULEY, ANS USSR,

PUBLICATIONS, ARTICLES: "THE CLINICAL PICTURE, DIAGNOSIS AND SURGICAL TREATMENT OF CONGENITAL ARTERIOVENOUS PISTULAS OF

PERIPHERAL VESSELS" (CO-AU)"

"BZHODYNAMICS WITH ARTERIOVSHOUS FISTULAS (ON DATA OF CARDIOGRAPHY AND SCANNING OF THE HEART

CAVITIES)" (CO-AU)

NAME: HOSKALENKO, YUBIY YEVGEN YEVICH

SPECIALIZATION: PHYSIOLOGY

CAREER POSITIONS: HEAD, LAB OF REGULATION OF BLOOD CIRCULATION IN THE BRAIN, INST OF EVOLUTIONARY PHYSIOLOGY AND

BIOCHEMISTRY IN IN SECHEBOY, AS OSSR, a

PUBLICATIONS, BOOKS: INTRACRANIAL BLOOD CIRCULATION UNDER THE CONDITIONS OF STRESS AND WEIGHTLESSNESS, 4, 1971 (CO-AU)
DYNAMICS OF BLOOD FILLING OF THE BRAIN UNDER BORMAL CONDITIONS AND DURING GRAVITATIONAL LOADS,

L, 1967

NAME: BOSKALEV, YURIY IVANOVICH

SPECIALIZATION: ROENTGENOLOGY AND MEDICAL RADIOLOGY

CAREER POSITIONS: IBST OF BIOPHYSICS,

PUBLICATIONS, ARTICLES: "CHANGES IS LENS OF RATS AFTER TOTAL EXTERNAL BETA-IRRADIATION" (CO-AO)

"THE COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF EUROPION-152 AND CORIUM-244 (CO-10)"

"THE DISTRIBUTION AND BIOLOGICAL EFFECT OF CALIPORNIDM-252" (CO-40)"

"THE EFFECT OF SUB-ACUTE 24148 DOSES ON RABBITS" (CO-A0)"

"EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATIONS ON RADIOBIOLOGY IN THE USA"

"WAYS AND PRINCIPLES FOLLOWED IN APPLYING AWINAL EΧΡΕΘΙΜΕΝTAL DATA TO HAN"

PUBLICATIONS, BOOKS: THE RADIOBIOLOGICAL EXPERIMENT AND HA, 5, 1969

PROBLEMS OF THE DISTRIBUTION AND EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION OF PERMISSIBLE LEVELS, 5, 1968 (CO-AO)

NAME: HOSKALIK KG

SPECIALIZATION: ONCOLOGY; ROENTGENOLOGY AND MEDICAL RADIOLOGY

CAREER POSITIONS: RESEARCH INST OF ONCOLOGY IN N PETROV, L

PUBLICATIONS, ARTICLES: "EFFECT OF ENERGY HAGNITUDE OF ISPULSE AND RHYTHM OF IRRADIATION OF THE ANTITUMOR EFFECT OF

LASER RADIATION" (CO-AU)

"OMESTIONS ON THE USE OF LATER IN ONCOLOGY (CO-AD)

NAME: BOSKOVICH & G

SPECIALIZATION: INTERNAL MEDICINE

CAREER POSITIONS: CLINICAL HOSPITAL IN S P BOΤΚΙΝ, Η

PUBLICATIONS, ARTICLES: "DEVELOPMENT OF A GRAVE FORM OF DIABETES MELLITUS AND OF HYPERGLYCEMIA IN TWO PATIENTS AFTER

TAKING HYPOTHIAZIDE" (CO-40)"

"TUO CASES OF BYPEROSHOLLARY COBA DURING DIABETUS BELLITUS" (CO-10)"

PUBLICATIONS, BOOKS: DIABETES MELLITUS AND DISBASES OF THE BYBS, 8, 1966 (CO-40)

NAME: BOSKOV KIRA O TA

SPECIALIZATION: ONCOLOGY: VIROLOGE

CAREER POSITIONS: EXPERISENTAL TUMOR THERAPY LAB, RESEARCH INST OF ONCOLOGY IN PA GERTSEN, a

PUBLICAT TONS, ARTICIES: "THE BFPP OF A COMBINED THBRAH OF VIRAL LEOKEMIA OF MICE WITH CYCLOPHOSPHANE AND COMPLETE

FREUND ADJUVANT (CO-40)"

"STIBULATION OF CC5788-8V VIRAL BETICULOSARCOMATOSIS BY COMPLETE FREUND'S ADJUVANT IS RICE"

(CO-AU)

"STIBULATION OF BAUSCHER-VIRUS-INDUCED LEUKENOGENESIS BY COMPLETE FREOND'S ADJUVANT (CO-10)

EDUCATION: DR BED SCI (1967)

SPECIALIZATION: PEDIATRICS; ORTHOPEDICS AND TRAUMATOLOGY

REPP:: haAD, CHAIR OF PEDIATRIC SURGERY AND ORTHOPEDICS, STATE MEDICAL INST, TORSK, RSFSR

496


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# Intelligence Informat. 1 Report

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY USSR

REPORT NO. 00-324/37776-71

SUBJECT Visit to US by Yu I Moskalev and Alex Moiseev/Current Positions/Moskalev's Research Program/Personality Data

DATE DISTR. 23 DEC 11

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO. October 1971

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE US/October 1971

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US biophysicist who had conversations with Yu I Moskalev and Alex Noiseev during the visit of the two Soviets to the US in October 1971.

1. In October 1971 Dr Yu I Moskalev, Institute of Biophysics, Ministry of Public Health, Moscow and Dr Alex Moiseey, Central Advanced Institute for Training of Physicians, Moscow, visited several US biological and biophysical research facilities. During one of these visits it was learned from Moskalev that he is the Chairman of the USSR equivalent to the US National Council on Radiation Protection. In this position, Moiseev is Hoskalev's secretary.

2. Moiseev was a difficult individual to figure out. He stated that his training is in health physics and that his job in the USSK is to be informed at all times of the status of US health physics and radiation protection programs. He said that he reads the US journal "Health Physics" regularly as well as other Western radiation research journals. Although in discussions with Hoiseev he appeared to be technically competent, he kept very close to Moskalev and rarely let him out of his sight. If Moiseev is Moskalev's "guardian" (as he appeared to be) he let his own guard down during a cocktail party hosted by Dr David M Taylor, Department of Biophysics, Institute of Cancer Research, Belmont, UK. During the course of the evening Moiseev consumed countless gin and tonics until he could barely articulate. Moskalev, on the other hand, sipped one or two drinks all evening.

3. Moskalev was a very adept diplomat. He finds it easy and convenient to adopt his conversation to whatever kind of group he is with. He talked at considerable length about the role of women in the Soviet economy and mentioned that his own wife is a pathologist. He was always much freer in his conversation when Hoiseev was out of hearing.

4. In terms of his professional work, Moskalev stated that he has a program in the USSK of exposing dogs to various doses of radiation to learn the biomedical effects of radiation. It is a program quite similar to that at the Lovelace Foundation in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The major difference being that whereas the Lovelace inhilation experiments involve only the beagle dog, the Soviets do not use a controlled breed, but rather use mongrels. Moskalev's budget, which

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to nizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

-2-

00-E-324./37776-71

he implied was sufficient, comes from the Soviet Ministry of Health. The actual Soviet work with the dogs is virtually parallel that in the US. It involves studying the low level effects of radiation from inhaled or injected materials.

5. Moskalev's work appears to be very good as far as it has gone. But he has only worked with nitrates and chlorides of plutonium, not with plutonium oxide. Oxides (solid components) should be of interest to anyone working in this field because the chemical forms of plutonium are quite useful to know about when doing accident type studies to understand plutonium metals it is essential to know about plutonium oxide. Whether the Soviets are working only with solutions rather than oxides is not known. It is always possible, of course, that Soviet work with plutonium oxides is classified.

- end -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

October 25, 1971

Mr. D. G. Williams
Manager
United States Atomic Energy Commission
Richland, Washington 99352

Dear Mr. Williams:

Report on Visit of USSR Citizens to
Pacific Northwest Laboratories

## Visitors

Professor Yuriy I. Moskalev, Institute of Biophysics,
Ministry of Public Health, Zhivopisnaya 46, Moscow D-182,
USSR.

Professor Aleksey A. Moiseev, Central Institute for
Advanced Medical Studies, 2 Botkinsky proezd 7, Moscow
A-284, USSR.

## Date

Visitors arrived in Richland at 12:35 p.m., September 27, 1971 and departed early on October 2, 1971. They stayed at the Rivershore Motor Inn.

## Schedule of Visit

September 27, 1971 - 2:30 p.m. Attended Dedication ceremonies for new Life Sciences Laboratory in 300 Area.

6:30 p.m. Symposium banquet at Rivershore
Motor Inn.

September 28, 29, 1971 - Attended Biology Symposium on The Biological Implications of the Transuranium Elements at the Rivershore Motor Inn. The symposium was sponsored by the AEC Division of Biology and Medicine and Battelle-Northwest.

September 30, 1971 - Attended meeting on Transplutonium Registry organized by the AEC Division of Biology and Medicine and Hanford Environmental Health Foundation.

October 1, 1971 - Visited Biology Department staff in Life Sciences Laboratory, 331 Building, 300 Area.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

# Mr. D. G. Williams

-2-

October 25, 1971

## Participation in Symposium and Transuranium Registry Meeting

Five contributed papers and one invited paper by USSR scientists were included on the symposium program and were presented by Drs. Moskalev and Moiseev. These included:

1.  Yu. I. Moskalov. Plutonium-239: Problems of Its Biological Effect (Invited).

2.  L. A. Buldakov, Z. I. Kalmykova, A. P. Nifatov, V. N. Doshchenko, I. A. Tseveleva, G. S. Mushkacheva, N. P. Kudasheva, V. M. Pesternikov, V. 1. Matveev, A. G. Surina, and V. N. Karpova. Metabolism and Biological Effects of Inhaled 241Am and 239pu in Dogs.

3.  N. A. Koshurnikova, V. P. Aristov, V. K. Lemberg, G. S. Mushkacheva, M. G. Poplyko, and I. A. Tseveleva. As to Mechanism of Development of Plutonium Pneumosclerosis.

4.  T. I. Levdik, V. K. Lemberg, L. A. Buldakov, E. R. Lyubchanskii, and V. M. Pesternikov. As to Biological Effectiveness of Neptunium-237.

5.  A. D. Nifotov, T. A Buldakov. and V. I. Matveev. Some Late Effects After a Single Inhalation of 239Pu and 241Am in Dogs.

6.  E. P. Ovcharenko. An Experimental Evaluation of the Effects of Transuranic Elements on Reproductive Ability.

The two visitors presented the Soviet papers in English (Dr. Moiseev speaks English quite well) and participated in the discussions of other papers. The visitors were already acquainted with many attending the Symposium so informal discussions were very common and apparently productive. Representatives from all major U. S. laboratories working on the transuranium elements and from the Atomic Energy Commission were able to meet with the Soviet visitors. The visitors related current status of their studies on biological effects of plutonium in their formal presentations and in their discussions. Their manuscripts have been received and will be published in the Symposium proceedings. During the week, they met with Dr. R. C. Thompson, Symposium Co-chairman to discuss editing of their manuscripts.

## Visit to Life Sciences Laboratory

On October 1, Drs. Moskalev and Moiseev were escorted to the 331 Building by W. J. Bair. Discussions with the staff occurred during the day in the conference room with visits to various laboratory facilities occurring as necessary.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

Mr. D. G. Williams

-3-

October 25, 1971

Dr. J. F. Park - Past, present, and future cxperiments on the biological effects of inhaled plutonium in laboratory animals; therapeutic removal of inhaled plutonium, and USSR recommendations to the ICRP to lower plutonium MPC's were discussed. These Soviet scientists have completed more work on the biological effects of inhaled plutonium in animals than any other research group except our own laboratory. The interchange of experimental methods, results, and concepts was valuable for planning our future research and evaluating the results of past and present research. Since they have reported biological effects of inhaled plutonium in experimental animals at extremely low exposure levels and recommended to the ICRP that limits of exposure should be lowered, the opportunity to understand and evaluate their experimental results, interpretation, and logic in making their recommendations was very useful.

Dr. V. H. Smith - Drs. Moiseev and Moskalev were reasonably well acquainted with the field of therapy for plutonium poisoning but not intimately in terms of details or recent Soviet literature; the former because his field was more on the ecological side, and the latter because he has concentrated on radiation effects and ceased active work on removal about ten years ago. Dr. Moskalev was interested in our plans to test phosphorothioic acids as removal agents and mentioned his own work on the removal of 144Ce with DTPA as an example of rhe riming of treatment.. H2 SLALER DTPA was given i.v. to humans in the USSR, not by inhalation, and that Zn-DTPA was not used or being experimented with. The latter is difficult to believe due to his former close relationship with Dr. Catsch. He was not Satisfied with the lack of side effects of multiple DTPA treatments and said that some problems with bone in long-term experiments could be due to DTPA but he wasn't aware of the details. Answers to questiつい about other treatments than DTPA, experience in treating humans, Ci future plans were not obtained because presumably this was not a primary research concern of Dr. Moskalev, although he did state there was considerable research effort in this field.

Dr. C. L. Sanders discussed our low-level inhaled 238pu02 studies (life-span), metabolism of plutonium and cellular interaction with Pu02 particles. The Russians were particularly informative in describing their low-level life span studies with 239Fu. It was learned that Dr. Moiseev is primarily a radioecologist who worked in Siberia and is familiar with oil pipe lines and associated ecological problems such as arctic and lake pollution problems.

Dr. J. E. Ballou discussed their studies with soluble plutonium compounds, comparative metabolism and effects of DTPA, and our americium, plutonium, and cerium work. Dr. Moskalev had tried inhaled EDTA therapy many years ago to no avail. He was interested in our work with age effects on gut absorption and wanted to know why the very young absorb more plutonium. He agreed there is prolonged gut transit time and different intestinal morphology in

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

October 25, 1971

17. Fikov, M. R., D. D. Mahlum, T. D. Mahony, and M. F. Sullivan. 1966. Particle Size and Animal Age as Factors in Evaluating Hazards from Ingested Radionuclides. In: Gastrointestinal Radiation Injury, M. F. Sullivan, Ed., pp. 524-535.

14. Hallum, D. D. and M. R. Sikov. 1969. Physicochemical State as a Determinant of Plutonium-238 Toxicity in the Rat. Health Physics 17, 346-347.

15. Mahlum, D. D. and M. R. Sikov. 1968. Effect of Environmental Temperature and Potassium Consumption on Cesium-137 Metabolism in the Rat. Health Physics 15, 541-543.

20. Mahlum, D. D. and M. R. Sikov. 1968. Distribution of Cerium-14: in the Fetal and Newborn Rat. Health Physics 14, 127-129.

21. Mahlum, D. D. 1971. Modification of the Hepatotoxic Action of Neptunium-237 in the Rat. Toxicology and Applied Pharmacology 18, 696-702.

## Other Activities

During the week, in addition to participating in the Symposium social functions, they were guests in the homes of Dr. W. . co. nirector, Health and Fufely Division, U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, Richland, Drs. W. J. Bair and C. L. Sanders. These occasions were enjoyable for the hoses and, apparently, for the visitors. Dr.. Moskalev is an excellent chess player and very patiently played chess with both adults and children. Dr. Moiseev was interested in current fashions and consumer products. Mrs. Bair gave him the current Sears and Roebuck Christmas catalog as an example of consumer products. He was familiar with the mail order concept but we could not determine for certain that it is common in the USSR. Both Drs. Moskalev and Moiseev have dachas near Moscow which indicate they are well up the status lädder in USSR science, but it was also obvious that Dr. Moskalev's dacha is a level above Dr. Moiseev's.

The visitors also expressed interest in our standard of living. The visits to our homes seemed to dispel some doubts they might have had about our standard of living. They seemed particularly to enjoy the opportunity to meet our children.

## Comment

All those having an opportunity to meet with our Soviet guests were impressed by their congeniality, willingness to discuss their research, interest in our family life, and the spirit of good will


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

# REPORT ON VISIT OF FOREIGN SCIENTISTS, OCTOBER 4, 1971

There were four guests in the group:
Dr.(Prof) Yuri I. Moskalev, Inst. of Biophysics, Ministry of Public Health, Moscow

Dr. Alexei A. Moiseev; Central Inst. for Advanced Medical Studies, Moscow

Dr. Jean-Claude Nenot; CEA, Centre D'Etudes Nuclaires, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France.

Dr. R. Masse,; CEA as above.

The four visitors were not traveling together, but by coincidence were participants at the same Transuranium Biology Symposium at Hanford during the week of Sept. 26. They were in San Francisco by chance at the same time and desired to visit Berkeley on the same day.

Mrs. Ann Low-Beer picked up the four guests in San Francisco and brought them to the Donner Laboratory where they were greeted by Dr. John Lawrence. Drs. Donald Van Dyke, James MoRae, and Howard Parker took them on a short tour of the Anger camera facility and whole-body counting and scanning equipment. The current uses and potential in medical diagnosis were discussed. Major questions concerned the use of these instruments in monitoring and assessing the extent of persons contaminated with radionuclides in industrial accidents.

Lunch was attended by Dr. Hardin Jones, the four guests, Drs. Van Dyke and Parker, and Dr. Patricia Durbin, who acted as hostess and guide through the day. Topics discussed at lunch were centered about the Transuranium symposium. The efficacy of two new techniques to remove lung contamination by-alpha-emitting isotopes was considered. The two techniques are lung lavage and aerosolized cheating agents, particularly DTPA.

A tour of Bldg. 74 followed lunch. Three of the visitors are biologists--Drs. Moskalev and Nenot are physicians, and Dr. Masse is a veterinarian and all deal with animal experiments or the interpretation of the results of animal experiments. They were much interested in how one achieved and managed a "biologically clean" rodent colony, in the minimum maintenance rabbit rooms, and the cage-washing facilities. There was some discussion about the 90-Sr-injected monkeys, there exposure levels, years of follow-up, and the essential absence of biological effects at the dose levels in the study.

A two-hour general discussion between and among the four guests and Dr. Durbin followed the building tour. The chief topics discussed were how to explain the observed differences in the metabolism of the transuranic elements among species. The usefulness and verifiability of models of human Pu metabolism were considered at great length. New areas of research in internal emitters problems were considered including the influence of age on local dose and ultimate biological end-points; the usefulness of common experiments with various species particularly those with known variations in iron metabolism, bone formation rates and liver function.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

# 14-00000

Dr. Durbin proposed a collaborative effort with two of Dr. Moskalev's colleagues. They have collected data on human skeleton weights, but now do not have the time or interest to write up their material. Dr. Durbin has collected all of the 19th century and early 20th century human bone weight data and would like to add the modern Russian material to the set. Dr. Moskalev agreed to propose a joint article with his colleagues looking towards publication in an international journal. He surrested that the original data would be forwarded in any case as soon as it could be copied.

In the late afternoon the visitors toured (briefly) the Bevatron guided by Ralph Thomas; the californium separation facility guided by Francis McCarty; and the Hi-lac guided by Al Ghiorso. Dr. Moiseev, who is a physicist, was very much intrigued by the proposal to make an advanced scientific instrument by joining the Bevatron and the Hi-lac. Dr, Moskalev was not interested in how the machines worked, "physics was not his field" he said, but asked what he as a biologist might do in the nature of radiobiology experiments with such machines.

Dr. Moskalev regretted that it had not been possible to visit with Dr. Tobias. (We could probably have fit in a few minutes or made arrangements for the following day, but I had run them ragged with sight-seeing the day before, Monday was very full, and frankly they were exhausted and needed rest. pwd). They would also have liked to visit the Medical Services group. Mrs. Low-Beer tried to fill them in on the duties and routine of that group.

Comments on money, budgets, problems of communication, demands on time, such as committees, etc. ran through all of the conversations. Dr. Nénot and Dr. Moiseev spoke English and understood it well. Dr. Moskalev and Dr. Masse understood more English than they could speak. All four are chiefly occupied with radiation protection and especially with problems raised by internal emitters. Dr. Moskalev is his country's representative on the ICRP internal dose committee. They all forsee the development of nuclear power in their countries at a fast pace. This obviously includes, as they were careful to point out, Pu fast breeders, hence :the overriding interest in Pu and its transplutonium contaminants.

The Russian visitors will be guests of the AEC Division of Biology and Medicine in Washington. (I feel certain we will receive good marks as hosts and as scientists. pwd).

One further point needs to be added. Although nuclear medicine is not a cuurent specialty in either country, and the use of nuclear medical techniques, especially as diagnostic tools, is very limited, the two physicians indicated thay they personally were much interested, and there was a definite trend in both countries towards more and more use of such tools. "It is coming", they said.

![signature]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# 14-00000

COUNTRY: USSR

SUBJECT: Dr. Y. I. Moskalev, Institute of Biophysics, Hoscow/Professional Interests/Personal Characteristics/Foreign Travel

FROM DCS/LSD/SBD 25 N0070
DCHI 00-A(S) 322/33488-70

13 Νον 70

1. In September 1970, Dr. Yuri Ivanovich Moskalev visited a US facility devoted to research in the field of nuclear medicine. Dr. Moskalev was born on 23 July 1920 in Igumnobo, USSR, which is near Kalinin. In 1922 his family moved to Leningrad. He has lived in Moscow since 1948. In 1958 he became the head of a division comprised of approximately 30 people at the Institute of Biophysics, Soviet Ministry of Public Health, Moscow. He is the best known investigator of the metabolism and toxicity of radioelements in the Soviet Union and has published a number of papers and reviews on this subject. During his visit, he outlined his as yet unpublished experiment on skin carcinogenesis in rats (dosage administered to the body surface by Sr90 -90 plaques on the sides of the cage) and reported two percent tumors of the skin and some mammary tumors after a 245 rad exposure. It is obvious that he is a careful and trustworthy worker.

2. Moskalev is conversant with English but not fluent and has some difficulty in finding the correct English words; however, with a little patience, scientific communication is very satisfactory. Re is genial, frank, and possesses a good sense of humor. He prefers Leningrad to Moscow, considering the former to be a more traditional and cultured city. His chief recreational diversion is his dacha, near Moscow, to which he sometimes, travels by skis in winter (a distance of approximately 20 kilometers).

3. Dr. Moskalev has visited the United States on two previous occasions; once attending the Sun Valley Symposium in 1967 and again for the Annual Hanford Biology Symposium in 1969. He has traveled to other places outside the Soviet Union and was present at a meeting sponsored by the IAEA in Vienna in 1964.

end

also for Oct. 1963

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

USSR

Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV

CURRENT POSITION: Institute Biophysics, Moscow
since 1953.

BIRTHDATE AND
BIRTHPLACE : 23 July 1920; Igumnovo, RSFSR.

EDUCATION : Doctor Medical Sciences.

PARTY MEMBERSHIP: Member CPSU since 1951.

CAREER : Member, Radiobiology Depart-
ment, Nuclear Research Institute,
Sungul 1951-53 (Head, Patho-
physiology Laboratory 1953).

SCIENTIFIC : Biological effect of fast neu-
SPECIALTIES trons and protons of high energy; blasto-
mogenic effect of ionizing radiation; distri-
bution of yttrium-91, zirconium-95, and nio-
bium-95 in rats after inhalation; distri-
bution of radium isotope thorium-X, antimony-
124, tellurium-127, tin-113, cerium-144, and
strontium-89, 90; distribution of lead
(thorium B) after intra-arterial and intra-
venous injection; dynamics of white blood
cell reaction to irradiation; kinetics of
excretion of Nb95 from organism; blasto-
mogenic effect of 120-Mev protons; primary
blood relations induced by ionizing radia-
tion; behavior of cesium-137 in mammals;
distribution and biological effect of
americium-241; (1963-68).

TRAVEL : International Conference on Diagnosis and
Treatment of Radioactive Poisoning, Vienna,
October 1962; International Atomic Energy
Agency (IAEA) Panel on Toxicity of In-
corporated Radionuclides, Vienna, June 1963;
Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety
in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling,
Vienna, August 1963; visit, Poland, June
1963; Symposium on Biological Effects of
Neutron Irradiations, Brookhaven, New York,
October 1963; visit, Austria, November 1964;
visit, Czechoslovakia, May 1965; Third Inter-
national Conference on Radiation Research,
Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, June-July 1966;

![central intelligence agency logo]

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

![group 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEV (cont.)

TRAVEL : Second International Symposium on Delayed
Effects of Bone-Seeking Radionuclides,
Sun Valley, Idaho, September 1967; visit,
Salt Lake City, Utah, September 1967
visit, Montreal, September 1967; visit, UK,
April 1968.

PERSONAL : About five feet, eight inches tall; graying,
dark blond hair, with receding hairline;
gregarious; reads, writes, and comprehends
English well, but speaks it with less pro-
ficiency; wife, Vera Nikolayevna Streltsova,
also works at Institute Biophysics.

HONORS : Order Lenin.

mr

21 January 1968

REMARKS : No major changes in Moskalev's career since
publication of above report; a recent docu-
ment refers to him as head of a laboratory
at Institute Biophysics; applied for visa
June 1970 for four month's stay in US for
meetings of United Nations Working Group
on Effects of Atomic Radiation. During
1969 published several papers (with co-
authors Yu. M. Shtukkenberg, V. F. Zhuravlev,
V. N. Strel'tsova, L. A. Buldakov, L. A.
Kalmykova, L. A. Yerokhin, V. K. Lemberg):
"Recommendations as to the Maximum Permissible
Concentrations of Tritium Oxide in Industrial
Environment," "Late Effects of Radionuclide
Damage," "Role of the Time Factor in
Separate and Combined Injury by Cerium-144
and Plutonium-239", "Accumulation-Removal
Patterns of Cesium-137 in Adult Dogs: Long-
Range Experiment", "Remote After-Effects
of Radiation Injury".

ees 9 September 1970

- 2 -

S-E-C-R-E-T
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

# Intelligence information

This material contains Information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY USSR/Franco/Italy

SUBJECT Second International Congress on Radiation Protection/Unimpressive Soviet Contribution/Lafuma's Work With DTPA at Fontenay-aux-Roses/ General Interest in Plutonium Protection

REPORT NO. 00-B-321/20573-70

DATE DISTR. 24 Aug 70

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES DCS Case 54123
NAVINTCOM NIP-10-70
USAFAC/OTSG

DATE OF INFO. May 1970

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE Brighton/Fontenay-aux-Roses - May 1970
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US citizen, radiation physicist who attended the Second International Congress on Radiation Protection, Brighton, UK, 3-8 May 70.

1. The Soviet delegation to the Second International Congress on Radiation Protection arrived several days late. As a consequence, the only presen- tation from the USSR personally attended was a paper: entitled, "Disorders in Embryonal Development of Rats after Injection of 131I," by A M Lyaginskaya Y D Parev and S N Sinitsyana. Since this same experiment has been conducted on the human embryo, there was really nothing new or even interesting in Lyaginskaya's presentation.

2. A Soviet delegate who was very busy asking many questions at virtually every session personally attended was Yuriy I Moskalev, Moskalev is a well known scientist in the fields of radiobiology and radiotoxicity. He asked all of his questions through an interpreter, but when answers were given in English he always seemed to understand without benefit of his interpreter. Moskalev indicated to a US attendee that the USSR was finally planning to request membership in the International Radiation Protection Association (IRPA).

3. The most interesting work presented at the meeting from a personal point of view was that of Professor J Lafuma, Fontenay-aux-Roses, France. He is charged with the responsibility of setting the plutonium protection standards and removal techniques after exposure to plutonium for all of France. Lafuma's most impressive work involves the success he has had in removing copious amounts of plutonium and other transuranium products from humans using DTPA.

4. Lafuma explained that from his point of view he was concerned with only two primary aspects of human contact with plutonium, inhalation and wounds. His studies have shown, of course, that the earlier treatment is begun the better the results; but also he has found it easier to decontaminate an area of the body exposed to plutonium through contact or a wound than to remove it from the lungs. Lafuma has used intravenous injection exclusively for the treatment of wounds and finds that a very significant amount of the transuranium particles are discharged from the body in urine. For the treatment of inhaled particles, Lafuma has used both DTPA aerosols and injection. He find his results from injection are better than the use of aerosols, even in lung decontamination.

U YES

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

S YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABRC

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence componen the USIa member agencies, and to those sunior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically trolled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Govern directly participating in the production of National Intelligunco. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be dissemina: organizations ar personnal; Including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the origi


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# Fatelligence Information Report 600257/

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by low.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY International/USSP

SUBJECT Second Congress of the International Radiation Protection Association, Brighton, UK, 3-8 May 1970/Biology and Ecology of Polonium and Radiolcad Conference, Sutton, UK, 30 April - 1 May 1970/Current Research and Findings

REPORT NO. 00-8-321/17309-70

DATE DISTR. I Jul 70

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES DCS Case 54,123
NAVINTCOM NIP-10-70

DATE OF INFO. May 70

PLACE & DATE ACQ. BY SOURCE Sutton/Brighton: Nay 70

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US citizen; a professor and researcher in radiation biology at a US univer...

[This report was prepared for submission to the US Atomic Energy Commission and is disseminated in accordance with DCID:2/3.]

1.  A US radiation biology researcher attended both the Biology and Ecology of Polonium, and Radiolcad Conference, Sutton, UK, 30 April - 1 May 1970, and the Second Congress of the International Radiation Protection Association, Brighton, UK, 3-8 May 1970.

2.  The nature of the Sutton meeting was such that few significant scientific positions were taken: however, in general, the quality of the paners was very high. The scheduled Soviet participants P V Ramzayev and/FNUZ Moskaley. were presumably not permitted by the USSR to attend; D Panov (Yugoslavia) was in the US, and D Djuric (Yugoslavia) did not attend for unknown reasons. The countries represented were UK (26), Italy (5), France (1), Sweden (2), Poland (1), South Africa (1), and the US (7).

3.  To the extent that the proper "half-life for lead in man" was discussed, the consensus appeared to be that (a) the loss rate can not be represented as a single exponential; (b) the presently available data on baboons and beagle dogs does not extend for a sufficient period of time to provide a measure of the "last slow rate loss constant"; (c) it is likely that lead and radium loss rates will differ because of the selective reutilization of Pb in bone. D Barltrop (UK) and US researchers have been performing experiments which indicate that lead is not bound by red cell. membranes, but at sites in the cell interior.

4.  CR Hill (UK) provided a useful summary of the contribution of polonium to human radiation dose. lle stipulated that the distribution of polonium will depend on whether it is administered as polonium per se or is allowed to grow in an animal as the daughter of an ingested parent. This is a significant consideration to biological researchers engaged in dose calculation work.

5.  Twenty-nine countries and five international bodies were represented at the Second Congress of the International Radiation Protection Association. G Marley (UK) was the congress president and II J Dunster (UK) was the secretary of the scientific program committee. The congress shared the common problems and advantages of similar large meetings. Concurrent sessions inevitably brought about some conflicts in important papers, discussion was generally absent or quite limited, and there was the usual number of papers given in "broken" English by foreign scientists.

U ::0

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-1-A-L

S YES

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the US12 member agencios, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically con- trailed in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence, IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be dissominated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# STO-1

(WHEN FILL ED)

# FEID A 1.0 SHEET

## INSTRUCTION

### COION TO FILLRY

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on hoc't. Detach back flap and foreword to D.

2.  Deskoy ront cover sheet, unie.surrouis sigaican action tolen er corarionis requic-ing preservation.

### TO: ΑΕΠΩΝ ARCT

If file nc., aed tille shown we not proper, Insert proper Als as below decurrent to lND/AN.

FROM:

RID/

### FROFLR FILL NO

### TO: AILL ADDRESSLES

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON LACK IF APFECERIATE

COMMENTS

Bee to Fachk

| TO             | ROC: .כא | DATE | OFFICER INITIAL |
| -------------- | -------- | ---- | --------------- |
| 1. SD/0/F4     |          | F-3  |                 |
| 2.             |          |      |                 |
| 3.             |          |      |                 |
| 4. SBIBIO      |          | 19   |                 |
| 5.             |          | July |                 |
| 6.             |          |      |                 |
| 7. RIO/AED/ECN |          | WJ   |                 |
| 8.             |          |      |                 |
| 9.             |          |      |                 |
| 10.            |          |      |                 |
| 11.            |          |      |                 |
| 12.            |          |      |                 |
| 13.            |          |      |                 |
| 14.            |          |      |                 |
| 15.            |          |      |                 |
| 16.            |          |      |                 |
| 17. RID/FI     |          |      |                 |

PHOTOS RETAINED BY SB/BIO

### FILE TITLE

BULKY

CALL RID/FILES, EXT. 1867 FOR ATTACHMENTS. RECORDS CENTER JOB NO. 68-974 BOX NO. 8

| TRACE REQUEST       | ABSTRACT | FILE NUMCER (PRIMARY CODE) | DOCUMENT DATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER |
| ------------------- | -------- | -------------------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
| DATE MICI.C. ILIMLD | INDEX    | 11-P-28                    |               | 10-17 4923:     |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

Chief, SB

Chief, EUR

Chief of Station, London
REDTOI/AEUPWARD
Transmittal of Immigration Cards

ACTION: For Richard J. ULLMAN

Transmitted herewith is the latest group of photostats of Immigration Cards.

Nelson C. CHIRUCK

PHOTOS RETAINED BY SB/BK

Attachment:
As stated Herewith

Distribution:
2 - C/SB h/w att.
3 - C/EUR w/ att



CROSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
OELA - 49339
7 June 1968
CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER
SECRET
74-120-158


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY USSR/West Germany/France/Poland

NO DISSEM ABROAD

REPORT NO. 00-B-321/27474-67

DATE DISTR. 16 OCT 67

NO. PAGES 2

REFERENCES

DCS Case 49,991

SUBJECT Y I Moskalev's Paper on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides Disappointing/Personality Notes/Attempt to Propagandize at West German Scientist's Expense/France and Poland Fail to Participate

DATE OF INFO. Sep 67 and earlier

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Sep 67 and earlier

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US citizen, an active researcher in the field of long-range effects of radio nuclides.

1. I was quite surprised when I arrived in Sun Valley, Idaho, to participate in the International Symposium on Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radio Nuclides to find that Dr Yuriy I Moskalev of the Institute of Physics. Moscow, had arrived two days earlier. Moskalev had traveled alone to Sun Valley and apparently was able to use his knowledge of the English language to get along on his own. However, he complained to the chairman of the conference that he did not know enough English to read his paper which also required condensation because it was too long for the time allowed. A colleague who had known Moskalev from earlier meetings said Moskalev's knowledge of English improved greatly after a few drinks. However, during this conference, he did not drink at all. He did mention, however, that he had written the English version of the paper he presented himself and said he could read and write English quite well but was deficient in the spoken language.

2. Moskalev's paper concerned the results of a series of experiments utilizing an unusually large number of rats and mice. The numbers he used were far in excess of those that would be used in a western laboratory. These figures were undoubtedly meant to impress his western associates. The data he presented was primarily on Strontium 90. His findings indicated that Strontium 90 was much more toxic than had been reported anywhere in western literature and that it was more carcinogenic than has been previously reported. His technique was almost exclusively injections of radio nuclides. The control he had on his animals was not explained, but very likely was very poor. He claims to have been able to induce cancer in laboratory animals at permissible exposure levels for atomic workers in the US. The animals were not examined for radioactivity, only for the existence of cancer. A respected US scientist with much more experience than Moskalev flatly stated, in private, that he did not believe Moskalev's findings. Moskalev did not ask questions during the question periods. However, he did talk privately to several scientific reporters after their presentations.

3. Dr Heinz Spiess West Germany reported on the results of injections of Radium 224 made during World War II in a wide section of the population in Germany. At that time, there was a mistaken belief that Radium 224 had a very beneficial effect on a person's health. He reported on 242 cases in which all types of cancer were appearing. The results of his observations in human population exposures were very similar to experiments

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

CONTROLLED DISSEM                                                                         NO DISSEM ABROA

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L                                                             00-B-321/27474-67

-2-

on dog populations in this country. Moskalev made an attempt to make
some propaganda of this report by asking in a small group, "Why did you
do this?" almost accusing Spiez of doing it himself.

4. Moskalev left the conference a little upset. It was suggested that he
   might visit a US laboratory en route home, and considerable time was
   expended to arrange this visit. However, he apparently took a different
   route and made no effort to tell anyone of his plans, and he did not
   visit the laboratory. He took copious notes on all papers, which indicated
   he was understanding what was going on. He took many pictures with a 35mm
   camera. From the questions he did ask in private, it was obvious that he
   understood English well.

5. I understand a Polish scientist had been invited to the conference. However,
   when his paper was submitted, the reviewer criticized it quite severely and
   suggested changes. As a result, the Polish scientist apparently decided not
   to attend the conference.

6. Three French scientists asked to be invited when the symposium was first
   announced. They even gave titles to their papers and the papers were put
   on the program. However, they later withdrew and no French scientists
   attended the meeting,

Headquarters Comment: The analysis of Moskalev's paper in this report
conflicts with the analysis in report 00-B-321/30340-677

-end-





1

2

3

4

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

# INFORMATION REPORT

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY USSR REPORT NO. 00-B-321/30340-67

SUBJECT Second International Symposium,
DATE DISTR. 16 OCT 67
"Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking
Radionuclides", Sun Valley, Idaho/
Interesting Paper Presented by Soviet NO. PAGES 2
Yu I Moskalev, an Unscheduled Partici- REFERENCES DCS Case 49,991
pant (351)

DATE OF INFO. Sept 67

PLACE & DATE ACQ. ---; Sept 67

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE US citizen; research scientist.

[This report was developed by an Army representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

1. I attended the Second International Symposium on "Delayed Effects of Bone Seeking Radionuclides", Sun Valley, Idaho, 12-14 Sept 67.

2. An interesting paper was presented by Yuri I Moskalev USSR on "Some Late Effects of Radionuclide Damage". Dr. Moskalev was not expected at the meeting and he came alone, arriving two days early, He had furnished no brief and it was a surprise to hear his paper.

3. I was unaware that research such as he presented was being done in the USSR. His demonstration was a good piece of scientific work, that is, his procedures and results in pathological consequences of radioisotopes fit reasonably well with our procedures and results in the US. He did not present anything new in his paper, and it must certainly reveal that they are a few years behind the US in biology and radioisotope studies and applications. They are apparently still testing the toxi- city of radio elements, which we have already established and accept, knowing the effects and using them accordingly. In other words, we are through with his reported work, feeling that it is completed; ap- parently they are not. Else, they don't yet know the toxicity bound- aries, are still experimenting along these lines, or are experimenting to see how much more they can learn. But his paper reveals remarkable research.

4. Dr. Moskalev understands English reasonably well, but speaks it less well. Therefore, his appearance alone at the conference was even more unusual.

5. I understand that Dr. Moskalev became very interested in visiting a certain US facility researching in his field of interest and pursued arrangements to visit there. His time schedule permitted the visit and permission to visit the facility was obtained for him from the facility and the US governmental clearances were also obtained. However, after all this was done, he "backed out", going to great extent to give the

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

U Yes C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L S Yes

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paras aph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be. released to those components of the departments and agencias of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organiza- tions or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U. S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

ONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

- 2 -

NO DISSEM ABROAD

00-B-321/30340-67

reason that the itinerary change was too much trouble for the US
persons and authorities concerned, notwithstanding the fact that all
change arrangements had already been completed, which facts he well
knew. From the USSR viewpoint, he stated that no objections would
exist, but I doubt that this was true. He was in Sun Valley four days;
immediately after the conference he went to Salt Lake City, and then
on to Montreal Canada. His schedule allowed for several days in
Canada, but he stated that he was leaving Montreal immediately for
Moscow.

Headquarters Comment: The analysis of Moskalev's paper in this report.
conflicts with the analysis reported in 00-B-321/27474-677

-end-

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

CONTROLLED DISSEM C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L NO DISSEM ABROAD

COUNTRY USSR/Yugoslavia/Poland REPORT NO. 00-B-321/15482-66

SUBJECT Soviets at the Third International DATE DISTR. 24 OCT 66
Congress of Radiation Research/Emphasis NO. PAGES 2
on Study of Radiation Effects on Large
Animals/David Shugar of Poland/Planning
for 1967 International Symposium on REFERENCES DCS Case 47146
Photobiology in Yugoslavia. Responsive to:C-S16-52537
DATE OF Up to 3 Jul 66 Related to: FTD-5901-N
INFO.
PLACE & (Cortina d' Ampezzo, Italy
DATE ACQ. 26 June - 3 Jul 66 THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: SOURCE A. US citizen, radiologist at US university.

SOURCE B. US citizen, biologist at US university.

SOURCE A.

1. About one third of the Soviets expected at the Third International Congress of Radiation Research put in an appearance. The papers I heard were disappointing. In my opinion the Soviets are confining themselves to a narrow range of interests in their radiation research. In Session 32, which was concerned with ingested or injected radioisotopes, a paper written by Yu I Moskalev and V N Streltsova of the Institute of Biophysics of the Ministry of Public Health, USSR, did not impress me. A very poor reading marked the presentation of the paper prepared by A Tumanyan of the Gamaleya Institute for Epidemiology and Microbiology, Academy of Medical Sciences of the USSR. The paper was given in a hurried and garbled fashion by a person who obviously was not a scientist. After the session ended, I talked to Tumanyan regarding her radiation experiments with monkeys. A woman about 45 years of age, Tumanyan had no English but spoke excellent French. She was quite enthusiastic about her work which I in turn considered commonplace.

2. It appears to me that the Soviets have a strong tendency toward experiments that enable them to study radiation effects on large animals. They do not seem interested in radiation response the effect on tissue; on the other hand, they concern themselves with metabolic effects, which are important because they are related to the ability to suppress immunity mechanisms. They stress immunology and transplants.

SOURCE B.

3. Session 8, which was devoted to the discussion of radiation effects on cells, had but one Soviet paper. This was presented by J J Kerkis of the Institute of Cytology and Genetics, Siberian Department of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR, Novosibirsk. It was a poor paper.

8 - NO U- NO

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

INFORMATION REPORT INFORMATION REPORT

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organisa tions or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

# CONTROLLED DISSEM

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

## 2

NO DISSEM ABRO,
00-B-321/15482-66

4. The meeting gave me an opportunity to renew my acquaintance with David Shugar of the Warsaw Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Academy of Sciences of Poland. Though a highly competent scientist and a dedicated Communist, Shugar seems to be short of funds. The organizing committee of the Congress sent him money to insure his presence at Cortina d'Ampezzo. He and his wife drove by automobile from Poland to Italy. Shugar introduced me to one of his students - K L Wierzchowski. In performing the introduction Shugar declared the young man was highly capable and had a brilliant future.

5. The International Committee of Photobiology had an executive committee meeting at Cortina d'Ampezzo. It was decided to hold a photobiology symposium in the late summer of 1967 on the Island of Hvar, Yugoslavia. The symposium will emphasize photosynthesis. The general plan calls for participation by about 100 scientists, with emphasis being placed on invitations to the younger scientists in the Sov Bloc. The chief organizer of the forthcoming symposium is Maria Drakulic, Laboratory of Cellular Biochemistry, Institute "Rudjer Boskovic", Belgrade..

- end -

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# U. R. S. S.

The following contains photos and bio information about the delegates to the XI International Congress of Radiology, held in Rome Italy 22-28 Sep 65.

50: 00-3-324/18669-65 Case 46424, UNCL.

GORISONTOV, Petr D.; Prof. M.D.
Member of the Academy of Medical Science of the USSR;
Two Orders of Lenin and Order of the Red Banner of Labour;
National Delegate;
Institute of Biophysics Academy of Medical Science, 14 Solyanka, Moscow.

![photo of Gorizontov Petr D.]

IVANITSKAYA
IWANITSKAYA, Maria A; M.D.Sc.
Head of the Roentgenological Department,
Institute of Cardio-Vascular Surgery;
National Delegate;
8 Leninskij prospect, Moscow.

![photo of Iwanitskaya Maria A.]

KOROGODIN, Vladimir I: Ph. D.
Institute of Medical Radiology, Obninsk;
National Delegate
Kaluga Region.

![photo of Korogodin Vladimir I.]

Candidate of ' dical Sciences; Chief of Division of Med. Radiology, Deputy Chief of General Department for Medical and Prophylactic Service, Ministry of Health;
National Delegate;
3 Rachmanovski, pereulok, Moscow.
SEMENOV, VIKENTY A

![photo of Semenov Vikenty A.]

UGRYUMOV, Benjamin; Prof. M.D. Director of Neurosurgical Institute;
National Delegate;)
12 Majakovskaja Stard, Leningrad

![photo of Ugryumov Benjamin.]

ZEDGUÉNIDZE, Georgii; Prof. Académicien,
Membre de l'Académie des Sciences Médicales de l'URSS;
Président de l'Association Scientifique des Radiologistes de l'URSS;
Délégué National;
14 Solianka, ASM de l'URSS, Moscow.

![photo of Zedguénidze Georgii.]

KOZLOVA, Anna; M.D.
Professor;
National Delegate;
7 Solanka, Moscow.

![photo of Kozlova Anna.]

LAGUNOVA. Irina G.; Prof. M.D.
National Delegate;
7 Solianka, Moscow.

![photo of Lagunova Irina G.]

MOSKALEV Yuri J. Prof. M.D.
Order of Lenin;
Institute of Biophysics Academy of Medical Sciences of the USSR, 14 Solyanka, Moscow.

![photo of Moskalev Yuri J.]

REINBERG, Sam A.; M.D.Sc.
Professor, Director of the First Chair of Medical Radiology;
Postgraduate Institute (Central) in Moscow;
Honorary President and Member of 22 Socictics of Radiology;
President of the Moscow Society of Radiologists; National Delegate;
Moscow A-55, Novoslobodskaja 57/65, KU 37.

![photo of Reinberg Sam A.]

# URUGUAY

GORLERO ARMAS, Agustín A.; Méd. Cir. Rad. Universidad, Facultad de Medicina de Montevideo;
Jefe de Servicio de Radiodiagnóstico; Jefe del. Servicio de Radiología del Hospital Italiano Umberto I;
1480 Calle Yí, Montevideo.

![photo of Gorlero Armas Agustín A.]

ISRAEL CRESPO, Davi; Dr. en Med. y Cir. Universidad de la República Oriental del Uruguay;
Jefe de Sección de Radiodiagnóstico; 2971 Calle J. Vazquez Ledesma, Ap. 301, Montevideo.

![photo of Israel Crespo Davi.]

KASDORF, Helmut; Dr. en Mcd...
Profesor Agregado de Radiología de la Facultad de Medicina de Montevideo;
Jefe del Departemento de Rad. del Hospital Universitario; 1171 Calle Soriano,
Casilla Correo 930, Montevideo.

![photo of Kasdorf Helmut.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# Moskalev Yu. F.

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY USSR/International

SUBJECT IAEA Symposium on Neutron Irradiations, Brookhaven, Long Island, NY, Oct 63: Neutron Irradiations Compared to X- and Gamma Radiations in Large Animals; the Problem of Neutron Depth-Dose Relationships in Large Animals; Problems with the term "Relative Biological Effectiveness"; Soviet Proposal for Supplanting "Rad" with Some Other Radiation Unit

DATE OF INFO. Oct 63

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Oct 63

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Three US citizens. Radiobiologists at a major US radiobiological research center.

Sources participated in IAEA Sympsoium on. Neutron Irradiations, Brookhaven, Long Island, New York.

Source 1

1. Q. Did Symposium contributions include significant advancements in research on controlled thermonuclear reactions that may be useful in determining the feasibility of initiating uncontrolled thermonuclear reactions solely without the use of fissionable materials which would produce large amounts of energy, on the order of one kiloton or greater?

A. To the best of my knowledge there was no formal discussion of any nuclear reactions, as such. The great majority of the material presented had to do with biological effects, and the physicists at the Symposium were using high energy machines largely to produce the radiation that would be comparable to solar flare radiation.

2. Q. Was anything presented on effects of space radiation on the human body?

A. I can recall no Soviet references to the Vostok flights. The two Soviet speakers confined their references to purely laboratory observations. There was a number of US papers, and as I recall one from France, oriented to space flight conditions, however.

3. Q. Were there results in the use of drugs in radiation protection?

A. I do not recall anyone's discussing drugs-Soviet or other. And I think that although research in drugs is continuing many radiobiologists are not very optimistic about their value. This is something many of us have reservations about.

4. Q. Was anything presented on the characteristics of a bio-element used for space radiation detection including the number required for an extended space probe and the method of transmitting information.

A. I do not recall any discussion of this by anybody. Practically everyone was talking about physical measurements


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 00-B-3,288,475

- 2 -

Q. Are there anything on biological indicators at low ranges of radiation doses?

A. This is something on which I can speak somewhat as an expert. Although people may claim to have this, I do not think anyone has it, including the Soviets. One can find biological criteria at low doses, whether they have meaning beyond the limited experiment is the big question, you see.

Q. Any results presented on cosmic and Van Allen belt radiation effects on test organisms in such areas as lethal, metabolic, developmental and genetic?

A. Nothing.

Q. Any conclusions presented on determining the relative biologic effective-ness factor of biologic material when exposed to radiation from nuclear testing?

A. Again, I can speak with some certitude. There is no conclusion about the relative biological effect of this factor. People will argue about it, but there is no conclusion. The Soviets had some things to say about it, but I was thoroughly confused about their position. There are two ways of thinking about the RBE factor. One is from the viewpoint of theoretical biology which is interested in the why of differences of biological effectiveness, and this becomes one of the parameters of experiment. The other is the question of an empirical number that one can use in handling questions of judgment about radiation exposure in man. With regard to the questions of judgment, I think that most biologists would agree that we do not have any reliable and valuable RBE factors. We have numbers that represent what we might be afraid of, more than anything else.

Q. Did the Soviets say anything bearing on physical measurements of radia-tion in space in terms of relative biological effectiveness factor and implications for future manned space flights?

A. One of the Soviet delegates, [Yu.I.] Moskalev was a frequent commentator on other people's work and he made a practice of denigrating the reports of these people with respect to radiation lethality. His comment was to the effect that the studies of radiation lethality done usually in small animals were not to the point, were not germane to problems in the human case, and that to be useful these studies should be done in animals closer to man.

Q. What is your critique of his argument?

A. Well, a mass of work has been done with the smaller animals in various laboratories and we are beginning to get certain generalities about the nature of radiation injury, or at least certain kinds of radiation injury, and therefore I think it is worthwhile to pursue it. As you might imagine, I presented a paper on radiation lethality and was among those to whose work Moskalev objected.

Q. Do you think Moskalev's objections were motivated from anything more than a genuine scientific position?

A. Who can say? In their published work the Soviets show a lot of attention to effects in the central nervous system--they are very interested in this and US people have tended to ignore this area. So conceivably Moskalev is oriented to CNS work and physiological functions, I do not know. But quite a lot of the Soviet work has a different orientation from western work--at least their published stuff.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

NO DISSEM ABROAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 00-B-3,288,475

- 5 -

24.  Moskalev, both from the papers he gave and his questions and comments
     in discussion, indicated that he was very sharp, very advanced in his
     knowledge of the biological effects of radiation, particularly with
     respect to distinguishing among the effects of various energies of
     neutrons and the techniques for measuring these energies. I think it
     may be safely assumed that the Russians are using very advanced methods
     for detecting and measuring the various energies of neutrons--the
     dosimetry of neutrons. In the biological effect, I think they are
     way behind us. But they are much involved in the potentials of neutron
     irradiation and their objectives are, I am sure, the effects of space
     radiation on human beings.

25. Actually, [VP] Afanas'yev, who is a physicist, was even more sophisticated
    than Moskalev. Afanas'yev's paper was entitled "Production and Investiga-
    tion of Dose Fields for Irradiation of Experimental Animals with Protons
    of High Energy". His paper showed that both their production of high
    energy protons in the laboratory and the measurements of these protons
    with respect to animal work is sophisticated. They are advanced in this.
    I think this is the distinction to be made: they are more advanced in
    the technology of producing high energy radiations and the measurement
    of these than they are in biological effects of radiation.

26. Q. Was anything reported on effects of radiation on non-regenerative tissues
    such as the brain?;

A. The Russians are very much involved in CNS effects of radiation, but they
presented no data at the Symposium. The paper that Moskalev gave was
a survey of Russian research work on biological action of neutrons and
isotopes. It covered maybe twenty different pieces of work with only
a few sentences for each. It presented no new data and nothing on the
Clis as I recall. Afanas'yev's paper, on the other hand, presented new
data on the production of dose fields with high energy protons.

27. One gets the impression that whereas Russians physics is mechanistic
    and quite indistinguishable from ours in that respect, Russian biology
    is impregnated with philosophy. Moskalev, for example, spoke of how
    the body "adapts" to radiation in the sense that a single animal adapts.
    Most biologists will reserve this word to changes in a species over a
    very long period. I suppose you could consider wound healing as:
    adaptation in a sense. But western biology sees certain events
    occurring in an organism as the consequence of a wound which can be
    described without resort to notions of teleological adaptation. This
    philosophical tendency has been a damaging element in Russian biology,
    I believe.

28. Q. Here there results in the use of drugs in radiation protection?.

A. I can recall nothing on protective drugs from anybody. There was here
and there a reporting of drugs used to enhance the effect of radiation
with respect to tumor treatment.

29. Q. Was anything presented on the characteristics of a bio-element used for
    space radiation detection including the number required for an extended.
    space probe and the method of transmitting information?

A. I am afraid I do not understand the question.

30. Q. Was there anything on biological indicators at low ranges of radiation
    doses?

A. There is a tremendous amount of interest in such indicators everywhere.
Moskalev's presentations did not say anything specific except that the
Russians are working on long-term effects of small doses of radiation

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 00-B-3,288,475

- 6 -

mostly as regards tumors. So they are interested in carcinogenesis and in fact Moskalev asked me a question following my paper on carcinogenesis, iw said nothing on acute, short-term effects of low doses of radiation, so presumably they are not concerned with these.

31. People from other countries, and particularly the US, reported work having to do with low dose effects and reliable biological indicators For low ranges of dose using the chromosome aberration methods in human cells. But the Russians had nothing to say about this particular thing and seem not to be working on it as yet.

32. Q. In your opinion, what is the level of accomplishment, worldwide, in this Matter of getting reliable indicators of biological damage?

A. Insofar as I know, the most sensitive and reliable biological index for damage at low dose rates involves the study of chromosome abnormalities. The approach was developed in the US and is being used extensively here and in England, and other countries are taking it up. Moreover, I think that in radiobiology in general, in almost any question you could ask, the wast and particularly the US and England are very much in the fore front. From what I know of Russian radiobiology from translations and hearsay, the Russians are years behind us, but I exclude their related physical work from this judgment.

33. Q. Was there reporting from the Soviets on types of radiation detection equipment used in the Vostok flights? Did they report findings on the relative biological effectiveness factor values for neutrons, protons and cosmic ray attenuations?

A. Well, again, there was no specific mention of this, but the interest in the relative biological effectiveness factor for neutrons and cosmic radiation was a major concern of the whole Symposium: the attempt to Glucidate the FBE factor and particularly the problem with respect to large animals, like humans, where in the case of neutrons you have a change in the type of radiation in the interior of the animal. You do not have this change with x- gamma rays, but you do have it with fast neutrons.

34. Q. How is this neutron change manifested in large animals?

A. The neutrons become moderated. As they proceed through the tissue, the mydrogen in the tissue reacts with the noutrons and there is a change in the energies taken up. At some point you have gammas. So, the first few layers of hydrogenous material on the outside of the animal tend to change the dose, and in the interior, where the important effects occur, you do not know what the dose is. We talk about mid-line doses, average doses, but the actual dose in the cells of the bone marrow or the gut, we do not know yet. This is one of the problems of the RBE and a very big one.

35. [A G] Searle of Harwell reported genetic effects of low dose rate neutrons in mice finding that there were as many if not more mutations with low dose rate neutrons than with high dose rate neutrons. His work is the first direct evidence of the cumulative effect of a prolonged, or fractionated, low dose of neutrons. You do not have such an effect with x- or gamma rays. If you prolong the dose with these, the effect will be very much less than it would be if you gave the same total dose in a single fast pulse.

36. Q. The neutron dose given gradually might have an even more damaging effect than if given all at once, is that it?

A. Yes. At least. But the matter is still delicate, for Searle's experiment was with mice and the question remains whether neutrons, as such, will

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L 00-B-3,288,475

- 7 -

get into cells in the interior of a large animal, such as a human being, or will be moderated and changed into gamma rays. The neutron RBE for mortality in dogs, as reported from my laboratory and Brookhaven, is around 1. For small animals like mice it is more like three or four. So there is this discrepancy, and it may be promising for large animal research. Harwell, my laboratory, and the Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago are now setting up to apply low dose rate neutrons in sheep. This will be new work and should have important results.

37. Q. Were results presented on cosmic and Van Allen belt radiation effects on test organisms in such areas as lethal, metabolic, developmental and genetic?

A. There was nothing on this as far as I know, except for a paper from the Donner Laboratory people at the University of California, Berkeley entitled "Some Biological Effects of 730 Mev Protons". This may simulate the kind of radiation that occurs in space and this is why they are playing around with it, you see.

38. Q. Were conclusions presented on determining the relative biologic effectiveness factor of biologic material when exposed to radiation from nuclear testing?

A. Well, this kind of interest is implied in work with neutrons. With neutrons there is this question of RBE and it was one of the major points of discussion at the Symposium.

39. Q. Did the Soviets say anything bearing on physical measurements of radiation in space in terms of relative biological effectiveness factor and implications for future manned space flights?

A. All I can say is that it is logical to suppose that this is what they are after: good physical measurements of radiation of a type that might be anticipated in space.

40. Q. Was there anything said on mapping and profiles for space radiation?

A. There was nothing on this.

41. Q. What interest have the Soviets shown in development and testing of nuclear power sources for thermionic power generators? Are the Soviets now applying such generators?

A. There was nothing on this.

42. Q. Did the Soviets report progress in radiation resistant materials and components for application to long space flight electronic equipment?

A. This Symposium was all biological, so there was nothing on this.

43. Q. Was there anything from the Soviets on methods of radiation shielding?

A. It was there by implication. The fact that they were talking about the investigation of dose fields, the radiation of experimental animals with protons of high energy, implies that they would be using some kind of shielding to get the animal exposed.

44. Q. This contribution would have been in Afanas'yev's paper "Production and Investigation of Dose Fields for Irradiation of Experimental Animals with Protons of High Energy"?

A. Yes.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

#

INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

COUNTRY International

SUBJECT Account of Attendees and Research at Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling, Vienna, Austria, 26-31 Aug 3

REPORT NO. OO-B-3,286,552

DATE DISTR. 30 Dec 63

NO. PAGES 3

REFERENCES Case-40178
Guide-316
C-SI3-81,081
CSI/ADOD
MITA FSTC/CCIA

DATE OF INFO. August 1963

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Vienna, August 1963

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE. US citizen, professor of Industrial medicine at a large western medical school.

Source, a medical doctor, attended the conference under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission. This was his first experience at a conference of this kind and first meeting with foreign colleagues in this field.

[This report was prepared for submission to the US Atomic Energy Commission and is disseminated in accordance with paragraph 3 of NCI/D 2/3.]

1.  The symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling in Vienna, Austria, 26-31 Aug 63, brought together the professional multi-discipline groups concerned with the health and safety of people exposed to nuclear materials in mining and milling and the potential problem of public health from the waste materials in these industries. To me, it points up the necessity of understanding the work within each of these disciplines in order to better define the exposures, dosimetry, metabolism and biological reactions in people exposed to the nuclear and chemical materials encountered in these industries.

2.  Except for the historical review of the pulmonary malignancies found in the workers of the Schneeberg and St Joachimsthal mines and the epidemiological review of the Colorado Plateau with the suggestion of possible increase in pulmonary emphysema, fibrosis and cor pulmonale as well as malignancies and some dyscrasia of hair roots in these people, the meeting was devoid of any specific information with regard to health effects on humans.

3.  We did not make detailed notes of the meeting and are not prepared to summarize the papers, however, there were a few points of interest to us that we will mention in the following paragraphs.

4.  V A Smirnov of the USSR stated that uranium tetrafluoride was less toxic than uranyl nitrate in the same dose in animals. A P Novikova of the USSR reported a decrease in blood cellular elements and an


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

CO-D-3,235,351

observation of an unsta
lycommia as the result of moderately ory doses
mixtures of the odes of rente
such exposures what appeared to be
type of urinały uranium excre..un function and retention of the
uranium crides in the lungs: concent area.
also allegedly caused a derezioration of conditioned reflexes: in clafe
dogs but no pathological changes in the nervous system at
autosy. They did find sclerotic dar in the puskonary merivasarlar,
peri.ronchial and mediastinya s darasa
prominent in the dogs in cixtures of exles containing
highest per cent of "ranja
with a carcinoma of the lune and anore
and patological
conic at
atypical verslastic
changes in the lung. For of the St raported that silico
plus radon exposures in anicals cuced more clonic
pulmonary damage than either silica or rajon Jon alone.
the USSR reported on the body distribution
numerous inhaled radioisotopes with acute, sacuc.
logical changes in the tags, one wros liver?.
know so little hout the effecs of the radioicotomes which spo
that we don't know whatler ruta vas ne

5. J Lafun from France reported finding in a slave dog
   attached by a cross blood circularion er the master
   inhaling radon. Padon daughters vere dog. The Yugoslavians reported condom infomation or Clading
   the immediate radon daughter attached
   stressed the importance of determining dang r in the environ-
   ment in order to calculate pa lunes。
   em, 1,
   reported studies of people and animals xrosed to radon in their spas
   and found a higù lung retution of radon daughters and t'at the bismuth:
   daughters of radon were or readily exercetel b ...oys them the
   lead daughters. rate of th yave four on the functio
   of mass mean. eter on comical co
   confe
   relation to ing retentionagem finterestiny
   theoretical discussion on the afferre chickname and physiologic
   activity of the bronchial scuous alia long dosus.
   Comber
   of the is gave a theoretical discusti expected neigibor cod
   alpha dose from a point pourec. Karst of an unfortunately
   was not present to give or discuss wyer on r fimling of raiteler
   in the air and walls of urmbrinors and Dis Lypothetical evaluation
   of Lead 210 body burden meretros.

6. JCilitland of the secular disequilirium of urani
   daughters in urandum or mac For determining a mo
   time-weighted exposur a Frequency of sanoli
   for 95% confidence exсом ut of the xioum allora le concentration.
   son environmental expos
   casunction From Japan, France and Canada.
   i'c detected no no idea.
   and internal ani exteral er descr in the techniques for measurin
   rotecate again that the particle siz

7. EC Hyatt of the 6, in ard sizing radioactive
   and density of radioacti..
   biological effects.
   La gera
   logical Protection" tar viat
   remely portant in evaluating
   weed in the section on "adio-
   most important in controllin
   radon and radon-daughter products in onlag atmospheres and that ass
   have only a special limited ase in comporarily uncontrolled areas of
   exposure. The S" scista, unver, paid unusual attention to
   Mr. Ilyatt's paper on respirators and secred quite concerned about the
   acceptability by vormen of t'e described respirators. The Fuscions
   apparently are using disposable masks.

8. Management of wastes appears to be a unique problem for the areas in
   which wastes occur. Ko neral management of wastes was promoted.

CONCED DISSEM

-I-D-C--T-I-AL

NO DISSE ORCAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# INFORMATION REPORT

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENC.

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C..Secs. 793.and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Austria/USSR/International/Belgium/Sweden REPORT NO. OO--3,203,411

SUBJECT Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety DATE DISTR. 3 Dec 63
in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling NO. PAGES 7
Held in Vienna 25-31 Aug 63 Under Axepices
the International Atomic Energy Agancy,
the International Labor Organisation, and the
World Health Organization (IAZA-ILO-NO)/USER REFERENCES Case 40170 0-313-07
Research and Practice in These Subjects AS
Disclosed at the Symposium/Visits to Related
Lavoratories in Belgium and Sweden: (1) Laboratories. Du Centre D'Etudie
De L'Energie Nucleaire, Mol, Belgium; (2) Division of Radiobiology, Re-
search Institute of National Defense, Stockholm, Sweden, and (3) Fors-
svarets Forskningsanstalt, Research Institute of National Defense, Stockz

DATE OF INFO.

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. Vienna, Mol, Stocckolm Aug Sep 63

SOURCE: US nuclear biologist.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

He is head of the pharmacology operation of a major US atomic labora-tory.

1. In late August 1963 I attended the Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling held in Vienna, Austria. The symposium vas under auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Labor Office, and the World Health Organization. In early September 1963 I visited related laboratories as follows; (1) Laboratories Du Centre D'Etudic Nucleaire, Mol, Belgium; (2) Division of Radiobiology, Research Institute of National Defense, Stockholm, Sweden, and (3) Forsvarets Forskningsanstalt, Research Institute of National Defcase, Stockholm, Sweden.

2. Due to a misunderstanding in the USSR, the topics covered by the symposium were not known sufficiently in advance for Soviet scientists to contribute papers on other than nuclear toxicology. Therefore, Soviet Delegate. Tschecnokow briefly discussed USSR uranium mine health practices which included three areas of activity:(1) Maximin efforts are taken to suppress dust at the source, and mines are well ventilated; (2) Personnel protective devices, such as respiratorý násko and filters, are used, and (3) Preventive health or propliylactic pro cedures include assignment of mine vorkers to a sanitarium for one month each year.io kidney damage or other pathology apparently has been seen as a result of uraniva mining activities in the USSE. There was no mention of cancer due to this activity. Four papers' from the USSR dealt with laboratory studies on the toxicology of internal cmitters. Most Soviet studies involved intratracheal administration of the isotopes -- although it was brought out that the importance of inhalation as a route of entry is being recognized. The symposium brought together a world cross section of scientific disciplines for discussion of uranium mining and milling hazards. Details of all of this are given in my trip report which follows:

3. IAEA, ILO, and WHO Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials Mining and Milling, Vienna, Austria, August 26-31, 1963. Visits were also made to the following laboratories:

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

GROUP 1
Excluded frew autematic
downgrading and:
declassification

INFORMATION

CONTROLLED NO DISSEM ABROAD NO FOREIGN EX

DISSEM: The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence compor of the USIB member agencies, and to thore senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically contre participating in the production of National Intelligence, IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to orga tions or personnel, including consulterais, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originatos.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

- 3 -

00-3-3,283,411

This is apparently due to the high acceptance of data pub-lished by the University of Rochester. It was pointed out that the possible contribution of radioactive dust composed of other than radon daughters was not actually evaluated in the case of the Schneeburg lung cancers because dust samples were not collected. Although radon is released by crushing of ores, radon and radon daughters were not con-sidered to be a problem in uranium mills of France because of large work areas and high ventilation rates.

e. Four papers from the USSR dealt with laboratory studies on the toxicology of internal emitters in general, particu-larly Cs137, Sr89, Sr90, Y91, Ce144, Zr95, Ni95, Ru106, and uranium and radon. Most studies involved intratracheal ad-ministration of the isotopes, although a few inhalation studies were described. These papers were all given by Dr L N Burykina in the absence of Drs Moskalev, Sanotsky, Novikova and kushneva. They report that 10 to 18 per cent of the inhaled radioactivity was found in the lungs of rats and dogs after exposure, and that five per cent was cleared by ciliary activity. These data are difficult to evaluate since the particle sizes of the aerosols were broadly des-cribed as being between 1 and 4 μ. Translocation of the inhaled radioisotopes was similar to that reported by others.

f. Biological effects were reported only for intratracheal ad-ministration of Ce144 and Ru106. They report degenerative inflammation of the lung and aplastic changes in the bone marrow accompanied by leukopenia in acute stages. In longer term studies they find chronic pneumonia and degenerative and proliferative changes of the bronchial epithelium and connective tissue. They also reported reduction of bone marrow hematopoiesis and degenerative changes in the liver, kidney, etc. These occurred after deposition of 1 to 19 με Ce144 in rats, 0.6 to 2.6µc Ce144/gram of dog, and 0.4 c Rul06/gram of rat. No cardiovascular changes were noted, but were not specifically studied. The results of studies with uranium were similar to those reported many times, with the exception of central nervous system injury which consisted of changes in conditioned reflexes and in hibitory and ex-citatory processes, Due to this and relatively high burdens found in skeletou (3 to 4 per cent) they conclude that uranium toxicity is not necessarily confined to kidney damage. Kush-neva's paper on synergistic effects of silica and radon re-ported previously published data. Silicotic rats were exposed to 8 μc radon. The radon treated silicotic rats showed more serious clinical symptoms, drop in circulating blood cells, and more extensive lung pathology than rats treated with radon or cilica alone.

g. An excellent paper describing experimental work on the in-halation of Rn222 and its decay products was presented by Dr E Pohl from the University of Innsbruck, Austria. When Rn was inhaled in equilibrium with RaA, RaB, and RaC the concentration of daughters in lungs and other tissues were higher than when the concentrations of RaA, RaB, and RaC in the inhaled air were less than the equilibrium values. However, in the latter case the concentrations of daughter products in the lungs and other tissues were higher than would be predicted from the concentrations in the inhaled air. Further experiments are in progress to confirm and explain these results. Similar, but less extensive, studies were reported in a paper co-authored by Dr Lafuma of France and Medjidovic of Yugoslavia.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

CONTROLLED DISSEM

NO DISSEM ABROAD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

# INFORMATION REPORT

## CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 600 2547

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-IN-F-I-----I-A-L

COUNTRY International

SUBJECT Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Nuclear Materials liining and Milling, Vienna, Austria, 26-31 Aug 63

REPORT NO. 00-B-3,278,069

DATE DISTR. 18 Oct 63

NO. PAGES 2

DATE OF INFO. August 1963

REFERENCES

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Vienna-August 1963

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizens; professors of industrial medicine at a large western medical school.

Sources, one of whom is a medical doctor, attended the conference under the auspices of the Atomic Energy Commission. This was their first experience at a conference of this kind and first meeting with foreign colleagues in this field.

[Sources are generally available for reinterview, should any further questions be generated by this report.]

[On file in CIA Library is the official program of the Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Ruclear Materials Mining and filling under the sponsorship of the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International Labor Organization and the World Health Organization held in Vienna on 26-31 Aug 63. Also on file is the Provisional List of Participants as of 19 Aug 63 and the Provisional Volume of Abstracts in the language submitted by the author.] [FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY).

1.  The Symposium on Radiological Health and Safety in Kuclear Materials Mining and 'lilling in Vienna, 26-31 Aug 63, did not provide much new information mainly because the US is so far ahead of the other countries represented at the symposium in its studies of these subjects. The US was actually the only country which presented original material at the conference. The Soviets sent a small three or four meraber delegat lori headed by Yuriy Ivanovich Moskalev, a very personable and diplomatic gentleman, At the end of the conference, he voiced his dismay in all apparent sincerity, that the Soviets had misunderstood the exact point of the meeting and had presented very minor papers.

2.  All the Soviet papers were read by VS Kusneva, a woman physician who delivered them very dramatically. The most interesting Soviet claims, wilich we do not believe directly applicable to the causes claimed and which were not fully documented were:

a. that uranium effects the central nervous system, i e, causes certain changes in the Pavlovian reflexes;


C-O-H-F-I-D-E-C-T-I-A-L

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

# INFORMATION REPORT

CONTROLLED DISSEM NO DISSEM ABROAD

The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence components of the USIB member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organiza- tions or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

# INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18. U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 774, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

COUNTRY
USER/International

SUBJECT
Meeting of IAEA Panel on the Toxicity of Incorporated Radionuclides, Vienna, 4-8 Jun 63

REPORT NO.
00- B-3,271,609

DATE DISTR.
21 Aug 63

NO. PAGES
2

REFERENCES

DATE OF INFO.
Jun 63

PLACE &
Vienna, Jun 63

DATE ACQ.
THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE:
US citizen. Medical doctor.

Source, who does cancer research at a large US institute devoted to nuclear studies, attended subject meeting.

1. I attended the meeting of the IAEA Panel on the Toxicity of Incorporated Radionuclides, Vienna, 4-8 Jun 63. The purpose of the panel was to advice the IAEA on research programs in this field. The meeting was organized by Evgeniy I. Komarov (USSR) of the IAEA Division of Isotopes.

2. The following named scientists participated in the panel:

Dr. M. H. Ezz, Chief
Medical Service
Nuclear Energy Center
Mol-Donk, Belgium

Dr. Anne G. A. Nelson
Research Institute of
National Defence, Dept. 1
Sundbyberg, Sweden

Dr. Krista Kostial
Institute of Medical Research
Yugoslav Academy of Science
Zagreb, Yugoslavia

Dr. P. Brinkman
Radiopathology Laboratory
University of Groningen
Groningen, Netherlands

Dr. Pierre Metral
Institute of Radium
Geneva, Switzerland

Dr. L. E. Coghlan-Jordan
Atomic Energy Establishment
Richardson-Sheffield Building
Dharwar, Bombay India

Professor G. Sanotsky
Academy of Medical Science
Moscow, USSR

Dr. Julian Liniecki
Institute of Occupational Medicine
Nawrotnylesa 96
Lodz, Poland

Dr. Jan Muller
Radiation Safety Division
Institute of Labor Hygiene
and Occupational Disease
Prague, Czechoslovakia

Dr. Otto Hug
University of Munich
Munich, Germany





NAVY
AIR
FBI
IAEC

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

NO DISSEM ABROAD
This information is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the Intelligence components of the departments and agencies who must act upon the information. However, unless specifically controlled by the originating components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government directly concerned, IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations with no contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originator.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

INFORMATION REPORT

SUBJECT : Colonel, Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY

SOURCE : ARDAZZLE-1

DOI : 1961

1. Source identified a photograph of MOSALEVSKIY not by name, nor was the name supplied as that of an Air Force Colonel, and GRU officer in the Information Directorate of the GRU who attended a meeting in London in May or June 1961.

Comment:

2. No SR/6/Bio traces.

3. Informal instances report that Yuriy Ivanovich MOSKALEVSKIY, born 17 January 1920, a radio engineer attended a Conference on Electronics in London from 12 to 17 June 1961.

DISTRIBUTION:

*   Orig - 74-5-112 File
*   1 - SR/CI/G/Chrono
*   1 - 74-6-439/4
*   1 - SR/CI/G/Targets

SR/CI/O:STull:et

![index]

N.B. Birthdate also recorded as 23 July 1920.

---


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

# C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

# Moscalev 6002547

COUNTRY USSR/Czechoslovakia/West Germany/India/France

SUBJECT WHO/IAEA Scientific Meeting on the Diagnosis and Treatment of Radio-Active Poisoning--Assessment of Participants and Their Presentations/Biographical Information

DATE OF INFO. 15-18 Oct 62

PLACE & DATE ACQ. Vienna, 15-18 Oct 62

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: US citizen, doctor of medicine.

Source conducts research in the treatment of radioactive metal poisoning and is also a clinician when such cases arise at the medical center. Source speaks German and keeps abreast of all literature on the subject of radio-active poisoning. This report was prepared by an ARMY representative assigned to the office of preparation.

1. I participated in the World Health Organization's International Atomic Energy Agency's scientific meeting on the diagnosis and treatment of radioactive poisoning, held at Vienna, Austria, 15-18 Oct 62. There were only 20 participants at this meeting; therefore each individual is considered highly qualified in this particular field otherwise he would not have been invited as a participant.

2. The two USSR doctors who were invited were Dr D J Semenov and Dr I T Tumbarenko, a female doctor. They are both from Sverdlosk Center. When the secretary had not heard from them, he contacted the permanent USSR representative of the International Atomic Energy Agency, who called Moscow to find out whether or not these two representatives would attend. He was informed that they could not come due to unforeseen circumstances. They sent instead, Prof. Moscalev. He speaks only Russian. He is bright but not current on the effects of radiation, that is, the effects of radioactive metals. He was therefore not the individual that should have been representing the USSR at this meeting. This was his first time out of the USSR. He is about 5'-8" tall, weighs about 175 pounds, is around 45 years of age and has graying hair. He is generally an outgoing individual. He became very warm and friendly during the meeting and toasted my son saying that he hoped that his son and my son could climb mountains together. He was rather gay at parties but only a social drinker. He smoked an average amount. He has a family, the size of which I do not know, and is a professor in the Institute of Medicine.

3. Professor V Volf, Department Ionizing Radiation, Institute of Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Diseases, Párišvani 27, Prague 7, Czechoslovakia. He is a well-known scientist. He is tall, slender, and athletic, in his 30's, about 6 feet tall, speaks perfect English. He has one boy aged 5 and a girl aged 9. He lives in Prague. He publishes an annual report on the proceedings at his institute, which I receive. He is a top-notch scientist. He is an MD and sees patients in addition to conducting research. He stated

5. 
4. 
3. 
2. 
1. 
C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FCI AEC

![Secret and Automatic downgrading and declassification instructions indicated hereon do not apply to Foreign intelligence and counterintelligence information]

CONTROLLED NO DISSEM ABROAD

DISSEM: The dissemination of this document is limited to civilian employees and active duty military personnel within the intelligence community member agencies, and to those senior officials of the member agencies who need act upon the information. However, unless specifically denied in accordance with paragraph 8 of DCID 1/7, it may be released to those components of the departments and agencies of the U. S. Government participating in the production of National Intelligence. IT SHALL NOT BE DISSEMINATED TO CONTRACTORS. It shall not be disseminated to organizations or personnel, including consultants, under a contractual relationship to the U.S. Government without the written permission of the originating agency.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

# Int'ntl Conf on Diagnosis and Treatment of Padioactive Poisoning
Vienna 15-18 Oct 62

Source US national; physicist on staff of INS institution of higher learning.

The most interesting aspect of meeting was condust and contributions of Prof Yu I Moskalev of USSR Acad Sci. His subject was listed as "Uptake and Retention of Plutonium in Man"; no abstract was presented. When Prof Moskalev spoke, however, he changed the title to "Problems of Kinetics of Uptake and Retention of Radioisotopes." During his presentation, it was suggested that the retention of multiple dosis of Sr90 in the rat could not be predicted on the basis of single injection studies, After continual questioning via translation service (he apparently spoke no English), we concluded he meant by this that the rat is a continually changing animal. In any event, his paper presented nothing new and could by described as being rather elementary.

In contrast, Prof Moskalev's questions throughout the four day meeting covered a wide range of topics, and left one with the impression that he was a competent individual. In response to questions, however, his answers were far from satisfactory. He have no specific answers to questions regarding Soviet experience with radioisotopes in man.

SO: CIA-A-3.246.539 CONFIDENTIAL Controlled/NDA/NFD
26 Dec 62


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# SECRET

1. NAME. MOSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanc. Ich

2. VARIANTS

3. POSITION Sci Worker, Padiobiological Installation, Nuc Res Inst, Sungul, Chelyabinsk Oblast, c 53; I/w Inst. of Biophysics, AS USSR, Moscow, 51-

4. LOCATION @ Sungul, Chelyabinsk Obl, C 53; Msocw, 51

5. OCCUPATION Nuclear Research-Radiobiology

6. FIELDS Distribution of Isotopes in Various Animal Species.

7. BIRTHDATE C1921

8. BIRTHPLACE

9. NATIONALITY USSR

10. EDUCATION

11. HONORS 585-2750

12. POL. AFFIL CP Mor., 51

13. CTRY. WORK. FOR

| 9.  | SOUNDEX | TO 1      | LOCATION            | 4.  | ORGANIZATION | 7.  | 5.                | 6.  | 13. |
| --- | ------- | --------- | ------------------- | --- | ------------ | --- | ----------------- | --- | --- |
| 600 | 24125   | 0617-5310 | 6013005 x 408290000 |     | 60120        | -21 | x290755 x 03030-c |     |     |


FORM NO. 214B
1 OCT. 54

BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION CARD

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

In 1953 tests were berun by MOSCALEV concerring the distribution of isotopes
in various animal species. Work of the radiobiological installation at Sungul

SO: CIA, CS-G-EG-14 64, 25 Oct. 55, Secret.

jab

MCSKALEV assistant to Timofeyev, Head of Biological Dept, Sungul Institute.
Moskalev, a nerve physiologist and party man, worked with Catsch (and subsequently
succeeded him) on research on curing or preventing radiation damage.

(Source is Dr Alhelm Lenke (STIE), a returned German scientist who gave inforßation on
Soviet personalities at the Nuclear Research Institutes at Sukhwai, between 1915 and
1955.) SOURCE: CIA, CS-G-82811, 1 Mar 56, SECRET/NOFORN RELCASABLE TO U.K./CONTINUED
CONTROL

MCSKALEV, Yuriy Ivanovich worked as a sci. asst. in source's lab. at Sungul. Took
the position of chief of the pathophysiological lab.. when source left in Oct. 53. Not
well qualified. Was supposedly imprisoned during the war because of his German descent
or for black market dealings. Became a Party member in 1951. Had one month's TDY at t
the Biophysical Inst., Moscow during the ast half of 52. Upon his return, he informed
source that the inst. was doing intensive work on the hematological effects on dogs of
radiation exposure. The inst. was also working on radiation e"fects on the nervous sys
tems of dogs, similar to the conditioned reflex experiments of Pavlov. He also stated
that the inst. was doing parallel work to Pungul on increasing the excretion of incorp-
orated radioactive isotopes, using diuretic substances & hormones, particularly the
parathyreotrope hormone. No special results were achieved. He was married to Vera
Nikolayevna Streltsova. Age 35. Medium height. Dark blond.

SO: CIA, CS-G-EG-1550, 24 Apr. 56, Secret.

SRI, Consol, Biblio, Lme, Ju956

joe


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)