# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

MR NAPOLI

ADVANCE COPY

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

UNIT
WH
TIME
22228
FILE, VR WH/C8 5006 DO4, DO/N3, CHOPS, E160KCS3 CAZ CA/19 FY FI/SPG

SECRET 3131262

IMMEDIATE [SDOM] INFO IMMEDIATE DIR[SNDR] CITE WAVE 5413

DYVOUR PERUMEN

REF (SDOM 6748 IN 42286)

1. PLANE PROCUREMENT PROBLEM DIFFICULT DUE SHORT DEADLINE BUT HAVE STARTED TRY WORK OUT SOLUTION , TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER

IN (AMCORE-2) NAME DC-3 TYPE AIRCRAFT. WAVE AIR OFFICER USING
CLEARED CONTACT WITH (KUBARK PROPRIETARY) AS FRONT IN TRYING ARRANGE CHARTER WITH OTHER AIR SERVICE SUCH AS MACKEY AIRLINES.

CLEARED CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER THAT AMCORE-2 HEAD OF GROUP TRAVELLING NEWSMEN STRANDED SDOM THRU PLANE FAILURE, ADD AMCORE-2 KNOWN TO HIM AS RELIABLE PERSON AND HE WILLING VOUCH FOR AMCORE-2 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND IF NECESSARY TO ADVANCE CHARTER PRICE. CONTACT WOULD TELL SUPPLIER AMCORE-2 WILL ARRANGE NECESSARY LANDING, REFUELLING CLEARANCES AT SDOM COMMERCIAL AIRPORT.

2. IF SUCCESSFUL IN ARRANGING CHARTER, MAY WISH FOR COVER REASONS THAT AMCORE-2 SEND CABLE (PHONE NOT NECESSARY AND NIGHT CONFUSE SITUATION) TO SUPPLIER CONFIRMING REQUEST FOR CHARTER FLIGHT. WILL ADVISE LATER RE DETAILS.

![RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

IN 42317 P2.2

3. IN ORDER TRY ADD COVER AT SDOM END SUGGEST ANCORE-2 INDICATE TO HIS PARTY THAT INBERT PROVIDING HIM WITH FUNDS TO CHARTER REPLACEMENT PLANE TO GET GROUP BACK TO MIAMI. [SDOM] CAN THE PASS FUNDS TO ANCORE-2. POSSIBLY[SDOM]COULD GET INSERT TO BACKSTOP STORY HE GAVE MONEY TO AMCORE-2.

SECRET

CFN 5413 6745 AMCORE-2 DC-3[KUBARK]MACKEY AIRLINES -2 THRU -2 -2 -2 -2 NOT NECESSARY RE -2 IMBERT MIAMI -2 IMBERT -2

BT

* PRIVATE AIRCRAFT SHOULD BE OBTAINED FOR TRIP.

![secret logo]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)