# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURM CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

532
DATE 15 FEB 61

TO BELL

FROM WAVE

ACTION: BELL 15

INFO COP, ADOR/A, WH 3, BELL S/C

PRITY BELA CITE VAVE 3691

JMZIP/ANDIP-3/AMHAZE

CLASSIFIED MESSE
SECRET

DUQUE

FEB 15 23472 61

PRIORITY

IN 0044

1.  ANDIP-3 COURIER ARRIVED WAVE AREA FROM HAVA 14 FEB.

INFORMED A-3 HE ON WANTED LIST AND DUE TO SECURITY INCIDENT HIS RADIO
LINK TEMPORARILY CUT OFF.

2.  SEVERAL DAYS AGO A-3 S/H RAIDED BY G2. HOUSE LOCATED NEAR 13TH AVE AND 198 ST, BILTMORE, HABANA AND OCCUPIED BY ADREA
    "LOUISA" GIQUEL GIQUEL PICKED UP AND DETAINED 48 HOURS. HOUSE
    CONTAINED ONE VIKING II RADIO, 2 HAND GENERATORS-GN58, A-3 CODES
    AND MSG FILES: NONE FOUND DURING SEARCH WHICH APPARENTLY ACCOUNTS
    FOR GIQUEL RELEASE.

3.  AGENT 2515 DISPATCHED TO HABANA LEGALLY ON 12 FEB WITH
    ORDERS TO CONTACT GIQUEL ABOUT 14 OR 15 FEB AND JOIN A-3 MOVEMENT
    LINE TO ESCAMBRAY AS W/T OPR FOR OSVALDO RAMIREZ GROUP.

4.  DUE GIQUEL INCIDENT ZABOTH INSTRUCTED AGENT.2517, WHO
    DEPARTED WAVE LEGALLY FOR HABANA ON 14 FEB, TO CONTACT 2515
    ON ARRIVAL AND WARN HIM AVOID CONTACT A-3 GROUP AND LAY LOW UNTIL
    HE GIVEN FURTHER INSTRUCTIONS BY S/W.

5.  WAVE AND A-3 CONSIDER IT ESSENTIAL ESTABLISH SECURE COMMO
    BETWEEN WAVE AND A-3 GROUPS. PROPOSE DISPATCH AMJAVA-4 BY BLACK,
    SEA INFILTRATION TO CUBA FOR THIS PURPOSE. INFILTRATION PLANNED

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

PAGE 2 WAVE 3691
IN CC44

BETWEEN 17-19 FEB. JAVA/2 AND 3 TO ACCOMPANY A-3 SOONEST SECURE RECEPTION ARRANGED.

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)