# DISPATCH

Deputy Chief, WH/SA

Chief of Station, JMWAVE
RYBAT/TYPIC/AMWORLD/AMLILAC
Report on Activities of AMWORLD

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: NONE.

1.  AMLILAC/33 obtained the following information from IDEN A and IDEN B, former members of the AMWORLD Group. The date of the information is mid-july 1964.

a. IDEN A was an instructor in a commando section headed by IDEN C, in a camp located near IDEN D. He was given the job of instruction in the AR-15 and AR-10 rifles. Since no manuals were available he had to use the book, *Small Arms of the World*. The men in IDEN C's command are unhappy because they do not trust the planning judgement of IDEN C. The second in command, IDEN E, is so hated by the men that when IDEN C leaves the camp he has to take IDEN E with him.

b. The Intelligence Chief of AMWORLD is IDEN F. He maintains that the prerequisate for men in the INTEL section is personal loyalty to AMBIDY/1. At one time a PBPRIMER, who works with AMBIDDY/1, presented IDEN F with a list of men for duty in the Intel section. IDEN F accepted the list and the men but after the PBPRIMER left he transferred the men to other sections. Recently IDEN F arrested a man in the Group and charged him as a spy for AMBANG/1. The man was physically beaten and jailed. Later IDEN F admitted he made a mistake, released the man, gave him several hundred dollars and told him to forget the incident.

CONTINUED

Attachment: U/S/C
3 cys, IDENS

Distribution:
Orig & 2 - Addressee- w/att U/S/C


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UFGA-17603

c. The Navy section is composed of a Chief, IDEN G, Chief of Operations, IDEN H, and Assistant Chief of Operations, IDEN I. The morale of the ship's crews is low and many of them state that they will jump ship at the first port of call. A large powered barge is anchored at the Navy Base and contains all the arms, and ammunition. There is a staging base in IDEN J. A new base of ships is being set up in IDEN K along with an airstrip. Teams for operations will be flown to this base from IDEN J, go by ship on the operation, return to this base, and then fly back to IDEN J.

d. For operational briefings AMWORLD uses the same photos KUBARK uses (The men who have worked for KUBARK and AMWORLD are aware of this.).

e. AMBIDDY/1 spends most of his time flying around Central America in a light plane. He has hired IDEN L, a free lance PBRUMEN photographer, to, film the camps and activities and to publicize AMWORLD.

f. IDEN M stated that AMBIDDY/1 acknowledged that he planned one operation per month for the next 3 months and then make an all out push with the guerrilla teams. IDEN M commented that if things did not improve AMWORLD would not be in existence 3 months from now.

g. AMWORLD has 3 large houses in the capital of IDEN J for recreation. Small groups are escorted to these houses from the camps. There is no limit to expenses for drinking and eating.

h. The chief engineer for the group is IDEN N. He is in charge of building the airstrips.

i. The infiltration team with the mission of assassinating AMTHUG/1 is headed by IDEN M. Date of the operation is unknown.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO:
UFGA-17603, 3 September 1964

IDEN A: Humberto CASAS
IDEN B: Tulio LEISECA
IDEN C: FNU ACEBO
IDEN D: Puerto CABEZAS
IDEN E: Reynaldo GARCIA
IDEN F: "Chino" MOLE
IDEN G: Manoline GUTIERREZ
IDEN H: Ricardo "The Mexican", ex-crewman of the BEE
IDEN I: Generoso BRINGA
IDEN J: Nicaragua
IDEN K: Dominican Republic
IDEN L: Guayo HERNANDEZ
IDEN M: Marco ULLOA
IDEN N: "Juan Jose" ABREU

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)