# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Bernard BARKER's Contract

19 April 1974

1. Mr. Hudson of Finance Division called this date concerning his search for a copy of Bernard BARKER's signed contract with the Agency. He is unable to locate it. Mr. Hudson has talked with Jan in Contract Personnel Office and asked that I check with her re same.

2. I called Jan on X 9179 and asked that she request any information on Bernard BARKER available at Headquarters of in Archives either under his name or his pseudonym Spencer O. Tertiling. She is to make a request on r priority basis. Any available information should be provided to this office by 22 April 1974.

![signature of Chris Hopkins]

Chris Hopkins
WH/COO/OS

201-31665

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

19 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD
SUBJECT: Limited Release from Secrecy Agreement--
Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio R. Martinez

1. In preparing the letter of 18 April 1974 (copy attached) from the General Counsel to Daniel E. Schultz in response to Mr. Schultz's letter of 9 April, I obtained from Ms. Chris Hopkins, WH/COG (x-1325), copies of (1) a secrecy agreement (in Spanish) by Eugenio Rolando Martinez dated 3 April 1965, (2) an unexecuted contract (an executed copý cannot be located) between the U.S. Government and Mr. Spencer O. Terteling (Bernard L. Barker) and (3) a termination secrecy oath signed by Bernard L. Barker dated 12 August 1966. Copies of those documents are attached.

2. After discussing the matter with Mr. David Phillips, C/WH Division, I prepared the 18 April letter adding the second sentence of the first paragraph at the request of Mr. Joe Skura, AC/WH/CCG (x-1948). After completing the letter, I coordinated it on 15 April 1974 with Mr. Skura and agreed to send him a copy of the final.

3. On 18 April I met with Mr. Schults. I questioned him as to his intentions regarding the information he was seeking as, in the Agency's view, clearly there is no connection between the Agency's association with Messrs. Darker and Martinen and the subject case. Mr. Schults-explained that he, as the lawyer repre- senting thom, foeie obligated to know what they did for the Agency In order that he can make the determination ne to whether it is golevant to the current trial--currently scheduled for 17 June. He mentioned that to daty both Mosers, Barker and Martinos had bean completely unwilling to discuss any aspect of their dutlua with the Agency. Thay had been reluctant to oven acknowladga

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRE!

their association with the Agency. I explained the Agency's serious
reservations concerning the possibility of compromise of agents and
operations that are still in being. I explained that the Agency con-
tinues to have associations with some of the individuals with whom
Messrs. Barker and Martinez had contact during their Agency
association. Mr. Schultz seemed to appreciate this problem. Thus,
in order to attempt to protect those individuals, I explained that the
Agency is currently not in a position to give Messrs. Barker and
Martinez blanket authorization to identify individuals with whom they
had contact during their Agency association. Mr. Schultz readily
acknowledged those conditions.

4. I mentioned to Mr. Schultz that if, as a result of the
   discussions that are now being authorized, Mr. Schultz believes
   that certain individuals need to be identified he can make such a
   narrow request to the Agency at that time. I made no guarantee
   that we would approve such a request, only that we would consider
   it in view of (1) the rationale that Mr. Schultz would offer as to his
   needs, (2) the possibility of publication, (3) the damage to current
   operations, and (4) the precedent in terms of weakening the confi-
   dence of current and potential Agency relationships.

J. EDWIN DIETEL
Assistant General Counsel

cc: IG
OLC
D/Security
AC/WH/COG

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# JRAL INTELLIGENCE AGEN
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20505

18 April 1974

Daniel E. Schultz, Esq.
Schultz & Overby
1990 M Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20036

Dear Mr. Schultz:

Re: Defendants Bernard L. Barker and Eugenio
R. Martinez, in the case of United States v.
Ehrlichman, et al., Criminal No. 74-116, J.S.
District Court for the District of Columbia

In response to your letter to me of 9 April, this letter will serve to authorize Messrs. Barker and Martinez, pursuant to their security agreements with this Agency, to discuss with you their employment with this Agency. This authorization does not include, however, the identification of individuals with which Messrs. Barker and Martinez had association or contact in conjunction with their duties for this Agency.

You recognize that during those conversations some information may be revealed that is classified. As a result, it is herein agreed that you will not reveal any inforination concerning the employ-ment by this Agency of either Mr. Barker or Mr. Martinez without the prior written approval of the Central Intelligence Agency. I appreciate your cooperation in this matter and acknowledgment of the terms of this agreement.

Sincerely,

John 8. Warner
Oeneral Counsel

ACKNOWLEDOEL,
Daniel E. Behulte

DATE

cc: The Honorable Lann Jaworski


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

18 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Request from OGC for Signed Copy of Bernard

BARKER'S Contract

1. On 18 April 1974 Mr. Dietl of OGC asked if I had been able to locate a signed copy of Bernard Barker's contract which we were unable to locate a few days ago. The answer was no. I took advantage of Pete Palmer's presence at Hqs. on TDY to ascertain whether a signed copy of BARKER's contract could possibly/at Station WH/Miami. Pete said with certainty there was no signed copy at Station WH/Miami since much of the material at the Station had been destroyed. Also, since BARKER was terminated in mid-1966, the Station file should have been transferred to Hqs. back then.

2. I passed the foregoing informaton to Mr. Dietl who simply asked that I double check with WH/Contracts and the Contract Personnel Division for same which I promised to do and advise.

![signature]
Chris Hopkins
WHD Task Force
Watergate


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

15 April 1974

MEMORANDUM FOR THE RECORD

SUBJECT: Information in re Watergate Passed to Mr. Dietl of OLC

1. On 15 April 1974 I gave to Mr. Dietl of OLC the following documents which he requested:

a. Copy of AMSNAP-3's Secrecy Agreement dated 3 April 1965, which I translated for him verbally oat the desk.

b. Copy of Termination Secrecy Oathlby Bernard Barker dated 12 August 1966. Also a Gemral Release signed by Barker 12 August 1986.

Chris Hopkins
WH/CO/G/JS

201-251669
201-269937


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

UNCLASSIFIED INTERNAL
USE GULY CONFIDENTIAL SECRET

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)
Bernard Baker/Helms' Statement

FROM:
De JusD

TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building)
DDO

DATE
11 March 1974

COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.)

We went through Barker's 201 again plus all other material provided to the 7th floor on Their Canada.
Could not find any statements which could conceivably serve as a source for Mr. Helms' testimony in question.
A copy of this is also being lent to Scott Breckenridge,

Dus coa Breckenridge IG

FORM
610 SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

11 March 1974

SUBJECT: Bernard Barker

1.  POA granted 16 April 1959. Terminated amicably. 31 July 1966. Review of Barker's file does not reveal that he had any association with gambling interests. Mr. Helms might have confused Barker with Frank Sturgis who allegedly had Mafia connections. Please note Mr. Sturgis was never associated in any manner with this Agency.

2.  Miss Christine Hopkins has discussed Mr. Helms' testimony, which appeared in the "Washington Post" on 11 March 1974, with Mr. Fred Evans, Office of Security, Mr. Scott Breckenridge, Inspector General's Office, and Mr. Lyle Miller, Office of Legislative Counsel. Mr. Sturbitts received a call from Mr. Miller early on 11 March 1974 and referred Mr. Miller to Miss Hopkins who subsequently talked to him.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

1407 Arist Breckunridge Co.
XS521 X-1407

Bernard Barker - over week end Feb 73

lest. released- Kelus said Barker bfor
mid 60's because of "criminal connections"
details of Barker's termination with

le when he terminated amicably at

mice

Barker showed last mite say he
mildly indignant re "Telemund
Associations"


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SCRJE T

## CONTACT REPORT

CASE OFFICER: Norris Z. GERYENOL

PROJECT : AMABDUCT

AGENT : AMSNAP-3

NARRATIVE :

TIME:

DATE: '11 March 1971

PLACE:

FUNDS PASSED: Nope RECPT RCVD:

1. AMSNAP-3 reported on 11 March 1971 that the charges, of sale of narcotics levied on Jorge ALONSO, the son of Guillermo ALONSO Pujol (AMECRU-1), were dropped (no exact date given). Jorge was arrested 21 June along with forty others and charged with being a top figure in the heroin and cocaine distribution racket.

2. AMSNAP-3 stated that he had talked with a friend of his, Ray BARKER, on the morning of 11 March. BARKER told him that he had spoken to Attorney Miguel SUAREZ. SUAREZ is a law partner of Fernando FREIRE. FREIRE told SUAREZ that Jorge ALONSO had been released because all charges stemming from the 21 June arrest were dropped by the authorities. Therefore, there will be no trial.

3. CO Comment: It is a sad day when justices can be bought by the likes of ALONSO. The little man loses again because if he were charged with an offense 1/10th the magnitude of Jorge ALONSO's, he would be behind bars for a long time, and to make it worse, Jogo ALONSO can, nov. Ro back ruining lives.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

10 April 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Personnel

ATTENTION : Mr. Paul Wilson

SUBJECT : Bernard L. Barker

1. Reference is made to our discussions regarding the letter written to this Agency by Mrs. Edwin T. Moffett in regard to her son's marriage to Subject's daughter.

2. As discussed with you, Mrs. Moffett was telephonically contacted and was advised that the Agency could not give her any information regarding Subject's possible employment with the Agency. Mrs. Moffett understood this and did not attempt to argue the point. Mrs. Moffett also was advised that her fears regarding the possible kidnaping of her daughter-in-law were not based on any known incident.

3. Mrs. Moffett was also advised that she should contact her daughter-in-law and son in order to get more Information regarding the daughter-in-law's background. Mrs. Moffett said that she had only met the daughter-in-law for a brief time and was not able to ask all the necessary questions.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

4. Mrs. Moffett was satisfied with our call and there was no indication that she would pursue this further with any government agency or Congressman.

Steven L. Kuhn
Assistant Deputy Director of Security
for Personnel Security

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

In response to your letter of March 10, we wish to advise we are unable to provide you with any information concerning employment of Mr. Bernard L. Barker.

With regard to your concern for the safety of your daughter-in-law, we are unaware of any cases of a former resident being kidnapped and returned to Cuba. Furthermore, since it is assumed Mrs. Moffett is a U. S. citizen, such a possibility seem appears rather too remote to warrant justify the apprehension expressed by her family.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

PERSONNEL DEFT."
C.I.A.
WASHINGTON.D.C.

I CONTACTED THE FBI AND THEY SAID I SHOULD WRITE YOU FOR THIS INFORMATION.

HAS BERNARD L. BARKER OF HAVANA, CUBA, CHICAGO AND MIAMI,
FLORIDA 5229 N.M4th St.) EVER BEEN IN THE EMFLOY OF THE
C.I.A IN THE ABOVE PLACES?

OUR SON MARRIED HIS DAUGHTER (MARIAELENA) IN CALIFORNIA AND
WE KNOW NOTHING OF BACKGROUND....ONLY WHAT SHE TOLD US.

IF YOU CAN CONFIRMANY OF THE ABOVE OR GIVE US ANY INFORMATION
ON HER FAMILY, I WOULD AFPRECIATE IT. MARIAELENA SAID SHE CAME
TO THIS COUNTRY AT AGE 13 TEN YEARS AGO.

IS SHE IN ANY DANGER OF BEING KIDNAPFED BACK TO CUBA AS
SHE AND HER FAMILY BELIEVE COULD HAPPEN?

SINCE SHE SAID HER FATHER HAD BEEN WITH THE C.I.A, I FELT
THIS WAS THE FIRST PLACE TO START TO FIND OUT ABCUT HER.

THANK YOU FOR ANYTHING YOU CAN DO FOR ME.

SINCERELY YOURS,

![signature]

MRS EDWIN T. MOFFETT
2931 CANTER STRELT
BETHLEHEM, PA.10017

MARCH 10,1970

P.B. I'M CONCERNED OVER MARIAELEN'S LARGE COLLECTION OF
PRICELEOS JEWELD. SHE TOLD UA TREX WARE BHUGGLED ANTO
THE U.B.A. OF (OUT OF OUBA) WHICH ONLY REACHAD HARE
BECAUSE THE BALANCE WARE BTOLAN..(PROW THEM)

I UNDERSTAND THIS WILL BE CORE LRTELY CONFIDENTIAL,AM I
CORRECT?


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

NDI

![diagram of the organizational structure of Barker-Herrera-Bimenez-Collazo with arrows indicating direction of authority]

SRY
11/5/67
RJ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

FORM G - 325 A (11-1-66)

UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTIC
Immigration and Naturalization Service

BIOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION

(FAMILY NAME)
Barker

(FIRST NAME)
Clara

(MIDDLE NAME)
Elena

MALE
FEMALE
BIRTHDATE -MO-DAY-YR NATIONALITY
8-12-1917 Cuban

FORM APPROVED
BUDGET BUREAU NO. 43-1436

ALIEN REGISTRATION NO
(IF ANY)
A12 418081

ALL OTHER NAMES USED
none

SOCIAL SECURITY NO.
(IF ANY)
262-68-6012

OTHER NAMES USED
NOI
1570067 Havana, Cuba
CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH
CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE
Yes / Barker 83 Bernard 3-17-17-Haven.Cuba 7-6-45 Hav.Cuba
FORMER SPOUSES NONE, SO STATE)
201-2516897 (husband)
FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)
FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE DATE AND PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE
Herrera Alberto march 1935, N.1. 1936 or 37, Cuba.

FATHER
Jimenez Amado Cuba deceased
MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME)
Collazo America -2-24-1895,Hav.Cuba Augusia, Ga.0.8.A.
FAMILY NAME FIRST NAME DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH (IF KNOWN) CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE
RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS FIRST.

STREET AND NUMBER CITY PROVINCE OR STATE COUNTRY FROM: MONTH YEAR TO: MONTH YEAR
2532 Wioummerdale, Chicago, Illinois U.S.A. 15 Oct. 1966 PRESENT TIME
4400 NW 5 st. Miami Florida U.S.A. 4 July 1962 30 6ept,1966
420 NW 45 Ave Miami Florida U.S.A. 2 3opt. 10 3 July 1962

CHI
EMPLOYMENT LAST FIVE YEARS, LIP NONG, SO STATE) LIST PRESENT EMPLOYMENT FIRST.

FULL NAME AND ALDORFER OF EMPLOYER OCCUPATION FROM MONTH YEAR
TO ΜΑΝΤΗ YEAR
Housewite Aug. 1954 PRESENT TIME
Patharply Co.3709 MW 7 88.Miami. Fla. Buyer Ring 1956 Aug. 1959
W.C.Murphy Co.3709 MW 7 88.,Miami. Fla. Saleslady Aug. 1958 Aug. 1959
Before this date housewife.

LADY FORMION AEGIDINGE OF MONE THAN ONE YEAR (IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE):

LAST OCCUPATION ABROAD (IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE):
CITY COUNTRY FROM TO
Kavana Cuba 10 10
CITY COUNTRY FROM TO
NATURALIZATION ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS OTHER SPECIF Rosidence 10 MAY 130/
18-16-66

PEMALTIDS: ODVERS PRHALTI AND PROVINED BY LAW
FOR RNCIWINGLY AND WILL PIJLLY PALBIPTING
OR CONCEALING A MAPEMAL PAGP.
TAMASTORE OF APPR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# BIOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

**FORM G-325 A REV 1-1-67**

**UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Immigration and Naturalization Service**

(FAMILY NAME)

BARKER

ALL OTHER NAMES USED

WONG OTHER

(FIRST NAME) (MIDDLE NAME)

BERNARD LEON

☑ MALE □ FEMALE

BIRTHDATE (MO-DAY-YR.) NATIONALITY

3-17-1917 CUBAN

CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH

HAVANA CUBA

FORM APPROVED BUDGET BUREAU NO. 43-R436

482-P

ALIEN REGISTRATION NO. (IF ANY)
A 10 144 090

SOCIAL SECURITY NO. (IF ANY)

213-07-0844

FATHER

FAMILY NAME FIRST NAME DATE, CITY AND COUNTRY OF BIRTH (IF KNOWN) CITY AND COUNTRY OF RESIDENCE

BARKER BERNARD 1-2-1890, COLUMBIA TENN. U.S.A (DEC)

MOTHER (MAIDEN NAME)

TERRY

SPOUSE (IF MARRIED, SO STATE) FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME)

FERNANDEZ

FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE CITY & COUNTRY OF BIRTH DATE OF MARRIAGE PLACE OF MARRIAGE

ALICIA CIENFUEGOS CUBA (DECEASA)

FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE DATE & PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE

CLARA 8-12-1917 HAVANA CUBA 4/4/1945 HANANA CUBA

FORMER SPOUSES (IF NONE, SO STATE)

FAMILY NAME (FOR WIFE, GIVE MAIDEN NAME) FIRST NAME BIRTHDATE DATE & PLACE OF MARRIAGE DATE AND PLACE OF TERMINATION OF MARRIAGE

NONE

201-251689

APPLICANT'S RESIDENCE LAST FIVE YEARS. LIST PRESENT ADDRESS

| STREET AND NUMBER  | CITY    | PROVINCE OR STATE | COUNTRY | FROM MONTH | YEAR | TO MONTH     | YEAR |
| ------------------ | ------- | ----------------- | ------- | ---------- | ---- | ------------ | ---- |
| 9370 N.W 20 ST     | MIAMI   | FLA               | U.S.A   | 3-2        | 67   | PRESENT TIME |      |
| 2552 W. SUMMERDALE | CHICAGO | ILL               | U.S.A   | 6-1        | 66   | 2-N          | 67   |
| 4400 N.W 5 ST      | MIAMI   | FLA               | U.S.A   | 7-1        | 63   | 6-1          | 66   |
| 420 N.W 44 AVE     | MIAMI   | FLA               | U.S.A   | 7-1        | 61   | 7-1          | 69   |

BARKER BERNARD L. (17-3-17)

APPLICANT'S EMPLOYMENT LAST THREE YEARS. (IF NONE, SO STATE) NATURE OF WORK BEGIN EMPLOYMENT FIRST.

| FULL NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER        | OCCUPATION        | FROM MONTH | YEAR | TO MONTH     | YEAR |
| ---------------------------------------- | ----------------- | ---------- | ---- | ------------ | ---- |
| SELF EMPLOYED                            | TRANSLATOR        | 3-1-67     |      | PRESENT TIME |      |
| THE RAUAND CORPORATION 2402 W. NORTH AVE | ASS. TECH. WRITER | 7-15-66    |      | 2-15-67      |      |
| SELF EMPLOYED                            | TRANSLATOR        | 1-12-60    |      | 7-15-66      |      |

LAST RESIDED CONTINUOUSLY IN THE U.S. SINCE (MONTH, DAY, YEAR)

LAST OCCUPATION ABROAD (IF NOT SHOWN ABOVE) TIP NOT EMPLOYED, WHAT DID/DO YOU DO

LAST ENTRY INTO THE U.S. (DATE)

PLACE

1-1959 1-1960

HAVANA CUBA 7 1946 HAVANA CUBA

CITY COUNTRY YEAR

CITY COUNTRY YEAR

□ NATURALIZATION □ ADJUSTMENT OF STATUS □ OTHER (SPECIFY):

2-8-1967

8 MAR 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 201-251689 TOTAL COPIES 2 [CIATTER-1]
REF TO FILE NO
FILE RID SECRET REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DESTROY

FROM
IM WAVE

ACTION
WH/C8

INFO
VR. FILE DOP, CI/OA

SECRET 1522352

DIR CITE WAVE 9534

TYPIC

REF UFGW 4928

REQUEST AMCLATTER/1 POA BE EXTENDED THROUGH 1 APR 65. POUCHING

PRQ PART II.

SECRET

CFN

![photo of the word SECRET.]

201-251689
15 AUG 65

RI COPY RI COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# DISPATCH

TO: Deputy Chief, WH/SA

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Operational/TYPIC AMCLATTER/1 Progress Report for February 1965

Action Required: None, For Your Information.

## 1. OPERATIONAL CHRONOLOGY

A. During the period under review [AMCLATTER/1] was transferred from the PW Branch to the CI Branch for future handling. Subject's files were turned over to CI on 27 January 1965 and he was informed by his PW case officer of his proposed transfer at a meeting on 2 February. A subsequent meeting was scheduled for 8 February with [AMCLATTER/1] and the PW case officer at which time the latter introduced him to the CI case officer. Subject appeared to be pleased with this turn of events expressing the wish that he could be put to more frequent use and be given a heavier work load. He said that he enjoyed his 2½ year association with his previous case officer but looked forward to getting into a new line of activity, preferably some type of PM activity or investigative work which he claims to enjoy as a result of his previous police experience in Cuba. Subject was told by the CI case officer that his duties would remain essentially the same as they had been and that he should continue his coverage of exile activities with emphasis on any rumors of impending exile raids on Cuba.

B. On 18 February Subject was introduced to [AMBLINK/1] and was told that [AMBLINK/1] would keep in daily touch with him either by telephone or by personal meeting. Subject and [AMBLINK/1] know one another from the time when they both were working in Cuba and both

Distribution:
WB = DO/WH/BA

![CS Cord]

DATE TYPED: 4 March 65

DATE DISPATCHED: MAR 9 1965


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

seem pleased with the current arrangement whereby they will be in contact with one another. In addition to this daily contact, meetings are held with Subject and AMBLINK/1 about once a week by the CI case officer to discuss Subject's reporting, as well as any difficulties he may have encountered or guidance he may need. For all practical purposes, however, AMCLATTER/1 is being handled by AMBLINK/1. Subject knows nothing about AMBLINK/1's other operational duties and contacts, and the latter has been instructed to limit his discussions with AMCLATTER/1 to any mutual business at hand. AMCLATTER/1 knows AMBLINK/1 by true name (which he knew in Cuba) and has his home telephone number. During the absence of AMBLINK/1 from the area the CI case officer will meet directly with Subject.

## II. PRODUCTION

Subject provided a number of useful reports during the period under review mainly concerned with proposed MIRR bombing missions over Cuba and details concerning the ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's house. The following disseminations were made as a result of Subject's production:

A. UFG 6635 (WAVE 7900; 3 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini: Alleged abortive Air Raid over Cuba by the MIRR.

B. WAVE 8261 (Rybat; 13 February 1965): Ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's house.

C. UFG-6710 (WAVE 8326; 16 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini: Planned Air Strike Against Havana by the MIRR.

D. WAVE 8419 (Rybat; 17 February 1965): Additional information on Ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's House.

E. UFG-6727 (WAVE 8394; 17 February 1965) from Frank Fiorini: Decision of Orlanda Bosch Avila to Use Cuban Pilot on MIRR's Air Strike of Havana.

F. WAVE 8521 (Rybat; 20 February 1965): Additional information on Ransacking of AMBIDDY/1's House.

G. UTG-8747 (WAVE 8618; 23 February 1968) from Frank Fiorini and Bill Johnson: Insistence of Orlanda Bosch Avila that the MIRR Bomb Havana.

## III. FINANCES

Subject was paid his February salary in the amount of 8433.77. (This amount is arrived at after withholding his income tax from $500.)

## IV. FUTURE PLANS

AMBLINK/1 will continue to contact Subject on a daily basis either by telephone or by personal meetings and will see that Subject's reports are promptly relayed to the CI case officer. Subject has been instructed to continue his coverage of exile activities in the area with emphasis on prompt reporting of any impending exile raids on Cuba. Subject will also continue to report in writing any conversations that he has with Cuban exiles who appear of operational interest and will explore his wide array of contacts for any information that may lead to the identification of Cuban intelligence agents operating in the area. In this connection Subject is currently exploring a lead involving two Cuban mulatto women who allegedly have hit the bolita numbers frequently (six or seven times) and for large sums of money. Subject, who has a theory that Fidel Castro may be using the bolita racket to fund agents in the U.S., is trying to learn the identities of the two mulattoes. He


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH
CLASSIFICATION
SECRET
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA-20209

has been cautioned not to delve too deeply in this matter however since he may become involved with local underworld elements who may take drastic action against him in the belief that he is working for either the local ODENVY or the police. Subject said that he is well aware of this possibility and is making very discreet inquiries with the assistance of certain friends (Cuban ex-policemen) who are bolita runners and who know that he has no interest in their bolita activities per se except to learn the identities of the two Cuban mulatto women. Subject said that his friends, in addition to possibly helping him, would like to know the identities of the two women sincee they would then play the same number as the two women and make some money on their own.

![Signature of Chester R. Kunduck]
ANDREW K. REUTEMAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

DATE: 20 NOV 60

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: JMASH

ACTION: WH 9

INFO: DDP, COP, ADDP/A, S/C 2

RE Filing (check one):
No CS Record Value. Destroy.
RI file this copy as indicated
Branch copy filed as indicated
RE Indexing (check one):
Marked None required
Signature:

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
NOV 28 1920Z 60

PRIORITY

IN 48700

PRITY DIR CITE MASH 1935

[J-NET]
NO NIACT

REF [TRAV] 2153

1. STRUGGLE: UNDERWAY BETWEEN CIVIL AND MIL ELEMENTS OF [AMRASP]. MARTIN ELENA HAS REJECTED [AMHAWK] THESIS THAT ESTADO MAYOR IS SUBJECT [AMCIGAR], WHEREAS [TWICKER] FEELS NECESSARY ESTABLISH PRINCIPLE THAT MIL POWER DERIVES FROM CIVIL.

2. AS COMPROMISE WE MIGHT MAKE SELECTION OF ESTADO MAYOR SUBJECT TO [AMCIGAR] APPROVAL AND PERMIT SUBORDINATE NOMINATIONS, PROMOTIONS, ETC. TO BE FILLED BY ESTADO MAYOR ON INDEPENDENT BASIS.

3. [AMHAWK] POINTS OUT THAT EVEN MARTIN ELENA REFERS TO GOUDIE AS "MINISTER OF WAR" WHEREAS GOUDIE MAIN FUNCTION IS LIAISON BETWEEN MASH REPS AND MIL ELEMENTS. RECENT TALK WITH [AMCLATTER-] SAN JENIS ACCUSED GOUDIE OF "SABOTAGING MIL EFFORT" AND OF PUTTING LOYALTY TO [AMWAIL] ABOVE [AMRASP] INTERESTS. WHETHER TRUE OR NOT FACT IS THAT AT LEAST ON CIVIL SIDE GOUDIE IS BECOMING HEATEDLY CONTROVERSIAL.

4. FIRM ESTABLISHMENT OF CIVIL ASCENDENCY IN [AMRASP] (PER USA PATTERN) WOULD GO FAR TOWARD RESTORING CORRECT FOCUS. REQUEST HQS CONCUR.

END OF MESSAGE

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# BILL:

Things turned out very well for I was invited to a small dinner party last night. Ernesto was there, and he freely brought out the subject personally with me, as though he wanted me to know. He expects the NYT man--HARPER--to return from Miami this week (I do not know if he meant back to Washington or to New York), and something to appear in the paper some time after that. As I told you, the NYT is convinced there are three related events:

a) The Wetargate affaire.
b) The treat-in at the Chasear Embassy.
c) An attempt to "that up" SERG or the Capitol grounds.

These three everts, at turn, were carried on by a single group of Cuisine ciber.
In fact, they think that GONZALED are another one of the people that mentioned to you were actually in the Vatricage. He managed to escape. He has links not only with the Agency, but also with the cor...parhans separately, but with similar objectives. A very serious charge. That is precisely the connection that the NYT wants to establish. The KIT man claims--according to Ernesto--to have a photo of Manuel GIBERGA, A Cuban who is a White House assistant for Spanish-speaking affairs--and Bernard BARKER, who they think is the key man ("A CLA agent recruiter"), together.

HARPER also visited Felipe PA208, a well-known Cuban economist who, at present, is with the Inter-American Development Bank. Harper might have also seen some Chilean dips, but this is only an inference on my pars.

The other birds on the list that I gave you were specifically tied to the Kilaberg case. They were brought up from Miami--armed--to physically disrupt Ellsberg's appearance before e Congressional Committee. The Cubans were unable to get to him, but did fight with some of his supporters, who were arrested. The Cubans were not. Official protection is what they are looking for in this particular case.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

John V. HANNON (T)

Harold V. KARABLY (P)

1971 - Retired as Staff employee

1971 - June - Picked up as contract employee by FR Division

1972 - June 30 - that contract terminated.

1972 - June 30 - retired under CIARDS.

1972 - June - new contract with FR Division as a retired annuitant. Came aboard as independent contractor.

1973 - 30 June - that contract was terminated.

FR Division has the following address for HANNON, but does not know the date of the info:

150 Ridgewood Drive

San Rafael, Calif 94901

Tele: 454-1322


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

INDEX: YES □ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. □
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 20
X-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID□ RET. TO BRANCH □
SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
DESTROY □ SIG.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
FROM
□dozen-By-24
ACTION WHHC-8
☑ RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
□ISSUED □SLOTTED □TUBED
INFO FILE, DR WH-8, CI/ops

SECRET 191802Z CITE JMWAVE 0947
19 MAY 66 20644
MEXICO CITY INFO DIRECTOR
20644
TYPIC AMCLATTER
REFERENCE: MEXICO CITY 7348 (IN 18855)
NO TRACES JMWAVE NOR LOCAL ODENVY NAMES GIVEN REF.
SECRET
BT

SECRET

ACTION - DIA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSI-1

Cuba

Photographs of Grain Silos at
Ensenada de Guanabacoa, Regla,
Havana

9 March 1966
1

1962 - December 1965
United States, Miami
(4 March 1966)

UFG-8015

Angel M. Maceda Sanchez (A 14 088 180) a Cuba refugee who was a welder and mechanic employed by the Cuban Ministry of Construction and participated in the construction of silos at Ensenada de Guanabacoa, Regla, Havana. Maceda departed by air from Cuba on 16 December 1965 and arrived in the United States that same day.

1. In 1962 the Government of Cuba drew up plans for the construction of a grain silo complex at Ensenada de Guanabacoa, Regla, Havana on property adjoining an edible oils manufacturing plant which had a daily capacity for processing 300 tons of soy beans. Actual construction of the silo complex started on 3 November 1964 following the September arrival of a number of Polish technical personnel who were to supervise the construction.

2. The silo complex consists of 36 silos, each 37 feet high and six feet (as received) in diameter. The complex is arranged into two groups of 18 silos each with a building to be built between the two groups. The top of the silos will be interconnected by a railway. In addition a system of tubing and pipes will interconnect the silos at the bottom.

3. On deposit in the Graphics Register are four photographs of the silo complex under construction which were probably taken about December 1965. Copies of those photographs may be obtained by requesting the following control numbers:

Field Comment: Maceda, who is not a highly qualified technician, was of the opinion that an inordinate amount of cement was being utilized in the construction of these silos. He also stated that on one occasion a delivery of cement was returned to the cement plant as it did not meet certain technical specifications.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSI-1

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

RECR注下

# JHJAVE

# UFG-703L
John H. SCEOSKOIRAST/Leonard W. FERICES
Eenry J. SLOMAIN/Gabriel J. RADESKIN 9 Feb (3

John C. TARBELL/bep

Philip G. ELMARD

![signature] AMIRIST/301-237
USAMEER-SXANCLISTER-1

Miami repa of: State
FBI
10MS
Cztons
Border Patrol
レジンの

4- Egs.
1 - DCS
2- Esxico City
3- Madrid

## TYPIC

SOURCES: Paras./1 to 7: TOAMBER-3, 16 December 1965 and 7 January 1966. Para. 8: ANCLATTER-1, 13 Decorbor 1963. He received the information from ANVT-243 who received it froa Israel SOTO Barroso. Para. 9: AMKY-337 (DD-1733) 17 January 1966, irem Alfredo ALLO Cantus. Field Cosmont 4s First nontonce iron AMT roport -1767, 4 February 1966, from GAULO who received the information fron Ruben BATISTA. Dalaane from ANWRIST-1, 16 Decemcor 1035. Field Commont 11 is based on 073-7007. Plocou add diswa waler. Subject of 201-004127 in montioned in para. 7 bonus tan caission of his name might jeopardize his security. FII, according to the sourou of para. 8, be also attended the meeting reported therein.

RID: Inden: NAME: BATINTA Godinon, Ruben

SLX: M
DOB: ?
POD: ?
CAS : Cuban

Ooo or Beatust Son of Pulgencio BATISTA. Titular hond of HAR (Puro de Anlaredicom : zenpuestos) BATISTA'S parecnal organination is a

Group At Anelused from Autonatic Downgrading and Doslenmis font Aon

(continued)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

SECRET

Cover Sheet Page Two UFG-7951

NAME: FERNANDEZ Miranda, Roberto
SEX : M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: Cuban
Oce or Status: Activities in Miami for Fulgencio BATISTA, his brother-in-law.

NAME: SAIF Yapor, Nicolas Jacobo
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: ?
Ose or Status: Fulgencio BATISTA's brother-in-law. In Miami. Activities on behalf of BATISTA.

NAME: TORRA, Antonio D.
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: ?
Ose or Status: Member of BAR, Fulgencio Batista's personal organisation in Miami. On Batista payroll

NAME: GUERRA Suares, Florencio
SEX: M
DOB: 30 Oct 1899
POB: Cuba
Cit: Cuban
Oss er Status: Former Cuban ambassador, Emigre in Miami. Member of BAR, Batista's personal organisation in Miami. On Batista payroll.

NAME: COBAS Reyes, Mario
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: Cuban
God of Status Former Cuban Min of Transportation, Emigre in Miami. Member of BAR, Batista's personal organisation in Miami. Also journalist, radio commentator, On Batista payroll,


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

Cover Sheet Pagr. Three UFG-7861

NAME: GONZALEZ Puente, Jose
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POR: ?
Cit: Cuban
Ose or Status: Former Cuban senator. Enigre in Miemi.
Mbr BAR, Batista's personal organization in Miani.
Journalist & Radio commentator. On Batista payroll.

NAME: PIESI de Porras, Enrique
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POR: ?
Cit: Cuban
000 or Status: Baigre in Hiani. Mbr FAR, Batista's
personal organisation in Miami. On Batista payroll.

NAME: PIEDRA Begueruela, Orlando
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POR: ?
Cit: Cuban
Ose of Status: Raigre in New Orleans, La. Fornar head
Cabea Natl Folice. Trusted nor Batista's entourage
in US. To Spain to confor vith Batista Jan 66.

NAME: ATOGENBAGARTI Oureia, Manuel
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POR: ?
Cit: Cuban
Ose or Status: Freer military aide of Batiste. In
Battata's office beat.

NAME: ROSTTANER, Eraceto
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POR: ?
Cit: ?
Ose or Status: Journalist. Miami. Receives $400
nemthip from reigosaio RBATISTA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

SECRET

Cover Sheet Page Four UFG-7951

NAME: KRAMER, Oscar aka "Bebo"
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: ?
Occ or Status: Receives $400 monthly in Fulgencio BATISTA for his newscast on radio WHIN, Miami.

NAME: FLORES, Martha
SEX: F
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: Cuban
Oss or Status: Emigre in Miami. Receives $300 per mo in Fulgencio BATISTA for her radio program station WHIE, Miami

NAME: GUAS Inclan, Rafael
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: Cuban
Oon or Status: Emigre in Miami. Former vice-Pres of Cuba. Receives $300 in Fulgencio BATISTA. Journalist & Radio commentator.

NAME: SIRDO, Otto
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Citi Cuban
Occ or Status: Emigre in Miami. Actor, also journalist, radio commentator. Resivos $300 monthly in Fulgencio BATISTA.

NAME: GUILL Morales, Gonzalo
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Citi Cuban
Coe or Status: Emigre in Miami. Former Cuban Prime Minister, receives $300 per mo in Fulgencio BATISTA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

Cover Sheet Page Five UFG-7951

NAME: RIKRA Bernandes, Mario
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: ?
Occ or Status: Author of book "Historial Obrero Cubano". Fulgencio BATISTA financed publication, $2,000.

NAME: RODRIGUEZ Botger, Alberto
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: Cuban
Occ or Status: Emigre in Miami. With "Patria", Fulgencio BATISTA's newspaper.

NAME: BLANCO Cortina, Miguel Angel Antonio
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: ?
Occ or Status: On editorial staff of Oscar "Bebo" KRANER, newscaster, Miami radio WMIE, who paid by Fulgencio BATISTA.

NAME: FREIRE Varona, Ernesto
SEX: M
DOB: 23 July 10
POB: Camaguey, Cuba
Cit: Cuban
Occ or Status: Emigre in Miami. Ldr RECH. Pact with Fulgencio BATISTA rep.

NAME: RIVERO Fernandes, Jose Ignacio
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
Cit: Cuban
Occ or Status: Emigre. Plans publish newspaper "Foto Expresiones de la Marina". Financed by Fulgencio BATISTA.

Also: cross reference to 201-106008, 201-004187.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FORRIGH DISSEM

Cuba

Activities in Miami on Behalf of
Fulgencio Batista Zaldivar

9 February 1966

Mid-November 1965 to mid-
February 1966
United States, Miami
(16 December 1965 to 4 February 1966)

UPG-7951

See below

Summary. Fulgencio Batista Zaldivar has an organization in Miami which is composed of a small group of his trusted followers. The main function of this group is in the field of propaganda. Between $5,000 and $7,000 per month of Batista's money is channeled through this group, most of which is spent in support of these antivities. On Batista's instructions, the newspaper *Patria* will adopt a more moderate line, including a friendly attitude toward the United States Government and its foreign policy. Attacks on agencies of the Government and support for RECE, with which the Batista group is making an agreement, will be published in a different newspaper. A Batista confidant left the United States for Spain in January on Batista's invitation.

Source for param. 1 to 7: Former high-level Latin American Government official who has travelled frequently through- out the Caribbean and Central America whore he maintains close friendships with a wide range of military and political leaders. He is a rightist, a trained reporter and his infor- mation has been fairly reliable in the past. Because of his past and present political affiliations, it can be assumed that is biased in favor of Batista.

1. Fulgencio Batista Zaldivar, former President of Cuba, has a persones organisation in Miami known en to Puro de Agleres y Respuestas (DAR, Bureau of Explanations and Answers) which is composed of a small group of ass who enjoy his trust and eco- donce, The titular head of PAR As Rubus Batista Codinos, Batista's son, and includes the following peoplet

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DIABEN
NO FORSION DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FOREIGN DISSEM

UFC-7961

Roberto Fernandez Miranda, Fulgencio Batista's brother-in law who lives at 424 Alton Road, Miami Beach, Florida.

Nicolas Jacobo Saif Vapor, another brother-in-law[^2]

Antonio D. Torra

Florencio Guerra Suarez, former Cuban ambassador

Mario Cobas Reyes[^3], former Cuban Minister of Transportation

Jose Gonzalez Puente[^3], former Cuban senator

Enrique Pizzi de Porras[^3]

Other trusted members of Batista's entourage include Orlando Piedra Negueruela, "former head of the Cuban National Police, who lives at 1505 Westbrook, Apartment D, New Orleans, Lasisiana; and Atorresagasti (inu), Batista's former military aide and confidant, who is now in charge of Batista's office in Mexico.

2. Members of BAR meet on an irregular basis in an office in Cobas' garage at 2770 S.W. 22nd Avenue, Miami, because Cobas, who is in poor health, does not leave his home. The group monitors news media for items of interest to Batista, particularly those items in which he is mentioned. Members of the group recommend items to be published, and Guerra is responsible for the preparation of a weekly report to be released to the press and radio.

3. The finances of BAR are handled by Fernandes, with the assistance of Saif. Batista provides between $5,000 and $7,000 (U.S.) per month, which is used for salaries, propaganda and other expenses and contributions. Following is a list of some of the regular monthly payments:

Patria newspaper, $2,000

Ernesto Montaner, journalist, $400

Oscar "Bebo" Kramer, for his newscast, $400[^6]

Martha Zlorga Montero, for her radio program, $300[^6]

Rafael Guas Inclan[^3], former vice-President of Cuba, $300

Otto Birgo, actor, $300

Dennis Guell Morales, former Prime Minister of Cuba, $300

Also, Torra, Guerra, Cobas, Consales, Pizzi and others each receive between $300 and $300 each month.

4. Requests for financial assistance are received from other Cuban emigres such as former military and naval personnel and policemen. Often these requests are honored, on a one-time basis, and in a manner that will assure that they do not become permanent financial obligations on the part of Batista. Some publications are financed with Batista's money, such as the book _Historia Cubana_ by Mario Riera Hernandez, a journalist, which was published in the latter part of 1958 at a cost of $2,000.

5. Batista does not contribute a fixed amount of money to any emigre organization. However, he does offer financial assistance to individual members of organizations, particularly those of the Alianna Para in Libertad de Cuba (ALO, Alliance)

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-3-
UTG-7951

for the Liberty of Cuba) which is headed by Ganeroso Campos Marquetti. The majority of the members of the ALC are Batista adherents.

6. At a meeting on 8 December Ruben Batista and Fernandes relayed Batista's instructions to a group of his followers who are explored in the news media. The instructions included the following:

a. The newspaper Patria must take a more moderate line. Attacks on agencies of the United States Government and on emigres who wore formerly followers of Fidel Castro Ruz will no longer be published. The newspaper must adopt an attitude friendly toward the United States Government and its foreign policy.

b. Batista is pleased with the news program broadcast by Kramer and would like to increase the program from one half to a full hour. The expansion of this program is not for the purpose of enhancing Batista's stature, because he no longer aspires to return to Cuba in a position of power. He realizes that such aspirations would be unrealistic. Batista feels that the time that will be favorable for the liberation of Cuba is approaching, and he wants Cuban emigres to re-double their efforts in working toward the liberation.

7. Among others who attended the 8 December meeting were Arnando Garcia Sifredo, editor and publisher of Patria, Alberto Rodriguez Rotger, also of Patria, Kramer, Miguel Angel Antonio Blanco Cortina, a member of Kramer's editorial staff, Saif, and Santiago Rey Perna, a news commentator on radio station VHIE.

Source for para. 8: A Miami businessman who was a resident of Havana for several years. The source has contacts who recognize him as a channel to U. S. Intelligence. The ultimate source of this information is a Cuban emigre in Miami whose reliability cannot be judged.

8. In about mid-November 1965 a group of Batista's followers met at Fernandes' house to discuss policy changes which were considered necessary to prevent persecution of Ruben Batista and Fernandez by Cuban emigres in Miami, and by authorities of the United States Internal Revenue Service. The following decisions were reached:

a. They would proceed to arrange an agreement with the Representacion Cubana en el Exilio (RECE, Cuban Representation in Exile). In this agreement, Batista would support RECE in Batista-sponsored press and radio, and furnish RECE with war material, such as boats and arms. In exchange RECE would pledge to support Batista's political organization in Cuba after Cuba has been liberated. To show good faith in this agreement Ernesto Freyre Varona, leader of RECE, would be asked to appear on a radio interview in which he would indicate "tacit tolerance" of Batista. The agreement between the two groups will not be acknowledged.

b. Mundo Americano will be given financial support. This newspaper will be used instead of Patria for publishing attacks on agencies of the United States Government, and for articles supporting RECE.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEN
NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-4-
UFG-7951

Source for para. 9: A member of a group of Cuban emigres trained in the techniques of information collection. The group has provided useful reports since 1961.

9. On 13 January Jose Ignacio Rivero Hernandez, fermer editor of the newspaper El Diario de la Marina in Cuba, said he is planning to publish a newspaper which will be called *Foto Impresiones de la Marina*. Hontaner will assist Rivero in this ondeavor. The newspaper will be financed by Batista. Rivero opined that when this newspaper is established, Patria will no longer be published.

1. Source Comment. Followers of Batista ("Batistianos") fall into two categories: (1) those who are directly associated with Batista, are employed by him, and receive instructions from him or his intermediaries; and (2) those who were formerly connected with his administration and, even though they are no longer directly associated, they remain loyal to him.

2. Field Comment. Source has also reported that Ferrandez' wife, Adela, is Saif's sister.

3. Source Comment. Cobas, Gonzalez, Guas and Sirgo are also journalists and radio commentators. Pizzi vas at one time employed by the newspaper *Mundo Americano*, a job which he received on Batista's recommendation.

4. Field Comment. An independent source reported that Piedra left the United States for Spain during the week of 16 to 22 January. He went at Batista's invitation. In mid-December another usually reliable source reported that it was rumored in the emigre community in Miami that Piedra and Laurent (fnu) wore to meet with Batista in the near future, after they had concluded an agreement with Aureliano Sanchez Arango whereby Sanchez and his group vould cooperate with Batista in an effort to overthrow Castro. Laurent is probably identical with Julio &. Lauront Rodrigues, forser Cuban Chief of Naval Intelligence, Manches is a leader of the Frente Nacional Decoratico Triple A (FNDTA, National Democratic Front/Triple A/).

5. Source Comments:
   Since the death of Leopoldo Pio Elinaldo, Atorresants has been in charge of the publication *Defensa Institucional Cubana*. Formerly Atorrosngasts csaisted Fornandes handling finances, the function now porivred by Saif.

Field Comment. Atorreanganti is probably Manuel Alorrosacea Garcia, Pio direated the publication of *SKOTER GELtugkoma Cubana* from Mexico City.

6. The two radio programs which are opencored and controlled by Batista are those of Flores from 1:30 to 1:48 p.m., and Kreser from 1:40 to 2:18 p.m., both en Mient radio station WHIN.

7. The attitude of the BROS has become more favorable to "Batistianos," Although it has not boon enharindgod, it is possible that Batista has helped that organination.

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSEM
FORSION DISS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CONFIDENTIAL
CONTROLLED DISSZИ
NO FOREIGN DISSEM
-5-
UFG-7951

8. Batista feels that it is useless to attempt to finance a war against Castro with personal funds. Such ventures are costly and the results are negative. Therefore, he refuses to consider plans for military action.

**Field Comments:**

9. TDCSDB-315/03734-65 from an independent source, reported that Batista had instructed his representatives in the United States to attempt to gain control of RECE.

10. According to the source of paras, 1 to 7, Freyre has appeared on Kramer's radio program twice.

11. The last issue of Mundo Americano was published in New York on 29 November 1965. An independent source reported that a now weekly newspaper called Nuevo Mundo Americanc will bo published in New York. Rolando Unaferrer Rojas will be the director of the newspaper. It was believed that Batista would provide $20,000 with which to establish the publication. (Cf.

Source Comment. Masferrer writes under the name Policarpo Pineda.

CONFIDENTIAL
COINFROLLED DISSEN
NO FORSION DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FROM: Acting Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: Operationa1/TYPIC AMCLATTER/1 Progress Report: October-December 1965

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES: FYI

1. During the reporting period AMCLATTER/1 has continued to serve as contact point for matters pertaining to Cuban exile activities and related affairs of possible CI interest. Ille has maintained his large number of contacts within the Cuban exile community, contacts representing such varied sectors as exile political leaders, officials of exile organizations, former members of the police force, as well as suspected underworld characters. AMCLATTER/1's close relationship to Identity A has resulted in a number of reports which were of interest to other Station components and some of which were disseminated. AMCLATTER/L is at his best when asked to furnish information about individuals in the WAVE area who may be of operational interest to the Station; he persues such assignments with the zeal of a trained bloodhound, combing his many and various contacts for information and rarely coming up with a negative report. AMCLATTER/1 works diligently and likes to be kept busy. It is preferable to give AMCLATTER/1 highly specific and detailed instructions, which he will then follow to the letter. When left to his own devices he will at times not use the best operatiorel judgment, which is usually the result of over-zealousness and expediency rather than lack of operational know-how or experience.

2. In November 1965, with the increase in the refugee flow, the CI Branch began using the services of AMCLATTER/1 in interviewing refugees of interest to this Branch and preparing debriefing reports. In this respect he is performing the same kind of work as members of the AMBERVE Team. However, because of his continuing reporting on Cuban exile matter, his many contacts within this community, and the fact that he is known to be in touch with KUDARK among a large number of thi

Attachments: IDEN, u/w/o (nct 'd)

Distribution:

UFCA-24266

DATE: 11 January 1966

19-190-3-21/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

CONTINUATION OF

SECRET

UFGA-24268, Page 2

community, it was decided not to incorporate AMCLATTER/1 into the AMSERVE Unit but rather continue running him as a singleton agent. It was also felt that he responds more favorably under the direction and guidance of one case officer rather than as a team member. AMCLATTER/1 has performed very well in his new duties as refugee debriefer, and his debriefing reports are models of thoroughness, if not of organization.

3. During the reporting period October-December, AMCLATTER/1 conducted a total of 16 refugee debriefings and prepared reports on these. Some of the debriefings required as many as four separate sessions. In addition, AMCLATTER/1 submitted ten operational reports dealing with information concerning the Cuban exile community, the majority of these stemming from contacta with Identity A. Two of these were disseminated.

4. During the period October-December 1965 the following funds were expended for AMCLATTER/1: Salary - $1,344.87; reimbursement for POV mileage and operational expenses - $209.44; total - $1,554.31.

John H. Schoendienst

for FREDERICK J. INGHURST

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

SECRET

JAN 14 22 PM 66 Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-24268

TYPIC

IDENTITY A: Dr. Julio GARCERAN Del Vall Souza
Leader of the PGCC (Pro-Constitutional
Government of Cuba)

Distribution:
- WH/C

![illegible image]
UFGA 24269

SECRET
CS COPY

![illegible image]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

RID/AN

EXTENSION NO. UFGA-24306

DATE 14 JAN 66

| TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. WH/C/ESEC                                         |               | 25 JAN 66      | AH                 |                                                                                                         |
| 2. WH/C/MO                                           |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 3. WH/C/RR/RE                                        |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                                                   |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 5. WN/C/FI                                           |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 6. WN/C/CA                                           |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 7. WN/C/CICS                                         |               | 3 Feb          |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 8. Barry C                                           |               |                | whe                |                                                                                                         |
| 9. Al                                                |               |                | Q.                 | Amelatter file                                                                                          |
| 10.                                                  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                                                  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                  |               |                |                    |                                                                                                         |


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH

INFO: WH/C, COS Guatemala City

FROM: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT: DYVOUR/JMPALM/AMCLATTER-1 Production Activities of Roberto ALEJOS Arzu (201-281386)

ACTION: FYI

RID: Please see last paragraph.

1.  On 7 January 1966 AMCLATTER-1 reported the following information concerning recent activities of Roberto ALEJOS Arzu, wealthy Guatemalan emigre in Miami. AMCLATTER-1 got the information from his 19-year-old daughter, who in turn got it in conversation with Cristina ALEJOS, 19-year-old daughter of Roberto ALEJOS, during a visit to the ALEJOS residence on 5 January. The two young women are close friends.

a. Roberto ALEJOS has leased his house at 180 Palm Island Drive, Miami Beach, to an unknown person effective 15 January, for a period of one year. The ALEJOS family will move to another house owned by ALEJOS and located at 2395 North Meridian Avenue, Miami Beach, Telephone No. 538-3148. This house has been used as a guest house for relatives and friends from Guatemala visiting Miami. The house is currently occupied by Rafael CASTILLO Menocal (see copy of his card, attached), who is related to the Cuban MENOCALS.

b. CASTILLO arrived in Miami from Guatemala on 17 December 1965 for a two-week visit, extended since. A close friend or relative of ALEJOS, CASTILLO is

Att: ABA H/W

Distribution:

B - WH, w/atts.

I - WH/C, w/atts,

S - COS, Guatemala City, w/atts.

Group 1: Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

wealthy, in his early 50's, well educated, and speaks Spanish, French, Italian, and English. He is deaf in his left ear. His daughters, who attended schools in Brussels, are also well educated and speak several languages. CASTILLO plans to return to Guatemala on 12 January 1966.

c. Cristina ALEJOS plans to leave for Guatemala on 15 January. For the past month her father has been training her on his properties in Guatemala about which she is to give him a report after her arrival there. Her father is particularly worried about "his large farm which is losing money." ALEJOS has indicated to Cristina that eventually she will take over control of all his property in Guatemala. She will stay with the CASTILLO Menocal family for three weeks, after which she will stay with her father's brother Arturo in Guatemala City.

d. Roberto ALEJOS does not plan to go to Europe this year because of the uncertain status of his financial affairs. He often speaks of his concern about the tense political situation in Guatemala and the danger of a Communist takeover. He is also con- cerned about his daughter's American boy friend, Arthur GORDICK (phonetic), who has had some problems in Guatemala involving the police. ALEJOS has forbidden Cristina to see GORDICK, but she is not complying with his order.

2. Station index files have no traces on Cristina ALEJOS, Arturo ALEJOS, or Arthur GORDICK; nor are there any traces identifiable with Rafael CASTILLO Menocal.

3. RID, please index:

a. NAME: *ALEJOS, Cristina
SEX: F.
DOB: Ca., 1946
POB: ?
CIT: Guatemalan
OCC: (See below)

19-year-old daughter of Roberto ALEJOS Arzu (201-301380), Re conversation in Miami 6 Jan 66 with AMOLATTER-1's daughter, her close friend. Subj plans to leave for Guat 15 Jan. Eventually to take charge her father's properties in Guat.

b. NAME: *CASTILLO Menocal, Rafael
SEX: M
DOB: CA, 1914
POB: ?
CIT Probably Guatemalan
OCC Rep of Wayne Motorbus Assembly Plant, Guatemala City

(continued)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

Arrd Miami from Guat 17 Dec 65; plans
to leave for Guat 12 Jan 66. Close
friend or relative of Roberto ALEJOS
Arzu (201-281386). Staying in ALEJOS'
guest house. Wealthy, well educated,
speaks Spanish, French, Italian, English.
Deaf in left ear.

c. NAME: *GORDICK (phon.), Arthur
SEX: M
DOB: ?
POB: ?
CIT: United States
OCC: ?

Friend of Cristina ALEJOS (daughter of Roberto
ALEJOS Arzu - 201-281386), who is seeing
Subj against her father's orders. Subj has
problems in Guat involving police.

Philip G. ELMARD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

Plante Ensambladore de Carrocertos WAYNE
TODO METAL - PARA AUTOBUSES

Rafael Castillo Menocal

INGUACA
7a. Av. 19-72, Zona 1.

GUATEMALA, CITY
CENTRAL AMERICA

![photo of building plans]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# SECPET

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

RID CONTROL NS.

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RID/IN
RECEIVED
20 10 00 AM 65

SURNAME

SUBJECT TO RE CHECKED

LAMAR, Laine, Margarita

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED,

AKA. ALIASES

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership, I. S. affiliations, etc.)

DATE OF BIRTH

PLACE OF BIRTH

20.MAY 07 Ravens

CITIZENSHIP

RESIDENCE
Medino

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

Confined to a wheelchair.

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

MARY REFERENCES ATTACHED

## INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

### IN ALL CASES

1 Use gummed labels type or print all entries.

2 Upon receipt of index card reproductions draw a green diagonal line across the items you do not want.

3 Mit (use green) the reproduced index cards to indicates

(a) cards to be destroyed (mark with green D and note reason for destruction) Examplest document destroyed) Auplicate or less informative than retained in- formation) information of no OB value.

(b) corrections and additions, inclu ding infinity symbol as when ward Ino aludes all facte contained in the document.

Note 1. Recorde of COI, dou, ona and to are in RID/AND, and those that muot Indaning eriteria in conn 70.1.1 are earded in the On Main Indon, if yomi bellave there could be additional In- formation of value in thane moda, you must request an Archives Intex search,

### 201 CONSOLIDATION

1.  Return this form with the card repro- ductions, also return pertinent documents, aperture cards and the dossier if a 201, on the subject exists..

2.  For each document to be included in the consolidation (1.e., copy or groen refcrance to be placed in the 201 file grown to corresponding card and check (a) or (2) belowi

(a) Consolidate into 201-

(b) Open 201 file on subject:

Note 2. Information concerning foreign public personalities (except mille tary) way be available in An/WR 7997.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

LAMAR PAO 201-157175*

BORN - CHIN HK

RES. CHIN OCCUPATION THIS

HO TUNG ROBERT 01 APR-57 26ARD FILED IN 201-157175*
MAIN INDEX

029258

LAMAR, fnu

201-43786
(XX-5379)
(17 Feb 45)

029259 XX-5379

LAMAR, FNU OIR-004-0115
EGBA-50393
03 JAN 60

BULGARIAN MEMBER, PRESIDIUM OF THE GOVERNING BOARD
OF THE WRITERS UNION.

029260


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

DATE

NITIAL

R10/INDEX

REQUESTER

RID/FILES

REQUESTER

RID/ANALYSIS

RID/201

RID/MIS-

RIO/INDEX

SURNAME

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

AKA. ALIASES

BEX DATE OF TH

PLACE OF BIRTH

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

CITIZENSHIP RESIDENCE

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

CARD REFERENCES ATTACHED

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS

RECEIVED RID/IN
20 10 00 AM '65

SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED
GIVEN NAMES
MARIA Luis A

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, sex, CP membership, 1. S. affiliations, etc.)

IN ALL CASE

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

1.  Use gunerad label) type or print all entries,

2.  Upon receipt of index card reproductions draw a grean diagonal line across the itowe you do not want.

3.  Mit (use green) the seproduced index carda te indienter
    (a) carde to be destroyed (mark with greon D and note reason for destruction) Examples: 400imant destroyed; duplicate or lens Informative Nhan retained in. formation) information of no Os value.
    (b) asippenetime and additione, inclu- ding Infinity symbol oo when card in elines faute contained in the 400umen

Note 1. Rainpie of dot, adu, (d) and 10 are in NID/AM), and thing that mont Indeeing oriturta in conn 70.1.1 pardad in the CA Main Trier, if you hallave there could be additional In Perention of value in those redorda, yet minh raqueat an Archives Indon couruh,

201 CONSOLIDATION

1.  Return this form with the card reproductions, also return pertinent documents, aperture cards and the dossier if a 201 on the subject exists.

2.  For each document to be included in the consolidation (1.e., copy or arons reference to be placed in the 201 file), green D the corresponding card and check (a) or (b) belowi

(a) Consolidate into 201-

(b) Open 201 file on subject,

Hota H. Information owerning Foreign pabile personalities (except milio hary) may be available in BM/OUR

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

![image of a folder cover with text on it]

OOO

Lamar Marie

Rio de Janeiro-CIA-Int-l
Folder

029281

L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

WH/C 65-499

9 November 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

ATTENTION: Alien Affairs Staff

SUBJECT: Admission to the U.S. for Two Aunts of Bernard L. Barker's Wife

1. Bernard L. Barker, a Cuban-American refugee in Miami (and former Captain in the USAF) has been actively cooperating with this agency since 1959 in Havana and Miami. He has shown his loyalty to the U.S. Government and his work for this agency has been very satisfactory.

2. It has now been learned that two aunts of subject's wife arrived in Mexico from Cuba on 22 September 1965. On 28 September 1965 they applied for visas to the U.S. Applicants are: Margarita LAMAR Laine; DPOB 20 May 1907, Havana, Cuba: PP 51527 (confined to a wheelchair since 1933) and her sister Maria Luisa LAMAR Laine; DPOB 21 July 1900, Havana, Cuba: PP 44495.

3. Headquarters and Miami Station traces on applicants are negative an are Miami FBI traces.

4. It is requested that Alien Affairs Staff arrange with Immigration and Naturalization Service for the expediting of these applicants into the U.S.

(011) Thomas J. Flores

Thomas Flores

WH/C/COPB

Distribution:

Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - WH/C/BBC

1 - WH/BEO

1 - WH/C/MO

1 - Subject File

Originated by B. Hidalgo, WH/C/WO/PI-CI


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# DISPATCH

## SECRET

TO:
CHIEF OF STATION, JMWAVE

FROM:
CHIEF, WHD

SUBJECT:
AMCLATTER-I'S IN-LAWS DESIRE TO ENTER PBPRIME FROM MEXICO

ACTION REQUIRED - FYI

REFERENCE - WAVE 6697:/IN 76287/

1.  AS WAVE IS AWARE CERTAIN STEPS MUST BE TAKEN BY ALL FOREIGN NATIONALS DESIRING TO ENTER PBPRIME BEFORE KUBARK CAN INTERCEDE WITH ODACID TO EXPEDITE THE ISSUANCE OF A VISA.

2.  IN THIS CASE, REFERENCE APPLICANTS MUST PERSONALLY APPLY PBSWING MEXI FOR ADMISSION TO PBPRIME. SPECIFICALLY THEY SHOULD HAVE NOTARIZED STATEMENTS FROM RELATIVES IN PBPRIME CERTIFYING THAT APPLICANTS WILL NOT BECOME PUBLIC CHARGES.

3.  AS ADMISSIBILITY TO PBPRIME DEPENDS /ESPECIALLY IN THE CASE OF INVALIDS/ ON THE PRESENT PHYSICAL CONDITION OF THE APPLICANTS, A HEALTH CERTIFICATE IS REQUIRED AT THE TIME OF APPLICATION.

4.  ONCE HQS HAS BEEN ADVISED THAT THE ABOVE ACTION HAS BEEN TAKEN, EXACT DATE PROVIDED WHEN VISA APPLICATIONS WERE SUBMITTED TO PBSWING AND NO DEROG FOUND KUBARK HQS FILES, KUBARK CAN THEN ASK ODACID TO EXPEDITE ISSUANCE OF VISAS.

5.  FYI - HQS TRACES ON REFERENCE APPLICANTS NEGATIVE.

ERNEST A. LUSBY

ISTRIBUTION BY TAPE .

3 - COS, JMWAVE





Distribution:

1 - WH/C/KRMC

1 - WH/C/MO

1 - OB/AAB



DATE

22 OCTOBER 1965

UFQW-5632

201-251689



/WH/C/KRMC

/WH/C/MO, FI-CI

Ernest Chiosun

/WH/C/MO

Robert Ortman

/H/



C/WHD

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# PLS INEY

CLASS TO FILE NO. 201-25161

FILE DET. TO BRANCH

ROUTINE SIG.

# SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM JMUWAVE

ACTION Delawik 5 RID COPY ADVANCE COPY

INFO FILE, VR, Cilops, 0048

# SECRET 2001532

DIR CITE WAVE 6697

POK TYPIC AMCLATTER

1. AUNT AMCLATTER 1, MARGARITA (LAMAR) LAINE, DPOB 20 MAY 07, HAVA, PP 51527, ARRIVED MEXI FROM CUBA 22 SEPT 65 ACCOMPANIED BY SISTER, MARIA LUIS A (LAMAR) LAINE, DPOB 21 JUL 1900, HAVA, PP 44495. MARGARITA CONFINED TO WHEELCHAIR SINCE 33.

2. AMCLATTER I HAS ASKED FOR KUBARK AID IN EXPEDITING ADMITTANCE SUBJECTS PARA I TO PBPRIME WHERE THEY HAVE RELATIVES WHO HAVE CERTIFIED WILLINGNESS SUPPORT THEM. RECENT CONSULTATION BY WAVE OFFICER MEXI INDICATED ACTION TO EXPEDITE VISA CLEARANCE MUST BE UNDERTAKEN BY HQS WITH ODACID WASH.

3. VIEW AMCLATTER I LONG LOYAL SERVICE CONSIDER KUBARK INTER-VENTION WARRANTED IF THIS DOES NOT INVOLVE MAJOR EFFORT BY HQS.

PLS ADVISE HQS VIEWS.

4. NO WAVE OR LOCAL ODENVY TRACES SUBJECTS PARA 1.

# SECRET

CFN 6697 AMCLATTER I, MARGARITA (LAMAR) LAINE DPOB 20 MAY 67 ,VA PP-51527 CUBA 02 SEP 65 MARIA LUISA (LAMAR) LAINE
HAVA PP 44499 33 !! NOT INVOLVE NO WAVE !


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET

FILE RID
DESTROY SIG

RET TO BRANCH

MFG 165

ROUTING

1
5

2
6

3
7

4
8

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: IW ☑ RID COPY (COPIES ISSUED TO: IW, SDO & CSDO 2330 JM)

INFO: VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, FI/D, FI/INT 6 DCI, D/DCI, DDP, CS/DO, SOD 4, CA/O 4, CI, CI/PS, FI/SPG, RI/AN, WH 10, WH/C 12, CS/RF

SECRET 130107Z 13 OCT 0342 65 IN 71454

PRIORITY DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR MANA SJOS QUAT MEXI SALV

TEGU CITE WAVE 6516

INTEL DYVOUR JMPALM

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-1 FROM GARCERAN ON 8 OCT 65. PARA 7 BASED

HMM-9901, 29 SEPT. POSSIBLE TRACE ONE OF BARRIOS PENA BROTHERS

MAY BE MARIO WHO, ACCORDING GUAT 996, 4 AUG 60, WORKING FOR

HONDURAN GOVERNMENT. RID: INDEX ALEJOS, GARCERAN, ROJAS, MALDONADO,

ARENAS, KRAMER, MENDEZ. FILED 130107Z

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

GUATEMALA/CUBA/NICARAGUA/COSTA RICA

SUBJ: INTEREST OF ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU IN RECRUITING CUBAN

EMIGRES THROUGH JULIO GARCERAN DEL VALL SOUZA FOR TRAINING IN

NICARAGUA IN PREPARATION FOR AN ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE

IW COMMENT

| WH/REG  |
| ------- |
| W1/2/N  |
| W1/2/CR |

WI/C 12

DATE DISTRIBUTED:

13 OCTOBER 0506269

SECRET

TDCS DB-315/03317-65

ROUTINE XX PRIORITY

BASED ON UFO-1601 NP(AMCLATTER-1)

LIAISON: N

REPRODUCTION DY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

![E. MYULLANEY]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
X REF TO FILE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

FILE RID RET TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIO

ROUTING
1
5
2
6
3
7
4

FROM:

ACTION: ☑ RID COPY

INFO: VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CIVIC 2, FI, FI/D , FI/INT

PAGE 2 IN 71454

GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT DOI: 8 OCTOBER 1965

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (11 OCTOBER 1965) UFG-7601

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A CONFIDANT OF JULIO GARCERAN DEL VALL SOUZA.

IW COMMENT

RELEASING IWO
DATE DISTRIBUTED
TDCS

ROUTINE
BASED ON

PRIORITY

LIAISON

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

# CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY GUATEMALA / CUBA / NICARAGUA / COSTA RICA

* PRIORITY

TDCSDB-315/03317-65

DATE OF INFO. 8 OCTOBER 1965

DISTR. 13 OCTOBER 1965

SUBJECT INTEREST OF ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU IN RECRUITING CUBAN EMIGRES FOR TRAINING IN AN ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT

PLACE & DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (11 OCTOBER 1965)

REF N71454

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. HE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A CONFIDANT OF JULIO GARCERAN DEL VALL SOUZA.

1. (FIELD COMMENT: ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, GUATEMALAN MILLIONAIRE RESIDING IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, PLANNED TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA IN THE SPRING OF 1965, USING A GROUP OF CUBAN EMIGRES WHOM HE HAD RECRUITED FOR THE OPERATION. ON 4 MAY ALEJOS AND LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ, MILITARY LEADER OF THE GROUP, WERE APPREHENDED AND THEIR ARMS CACHES SEIZED BY UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS).

2. ON 8 OCTOBER 1965 DR. JULIO GARCERAN DEL VALL SOUZA, LEADER OF THE PRO-900IERNO CONSTITUTIONAL DE CUBA (POCC, PRO- CONSTITUTIONAL GOVERNMENT OF CUBA), SAID THAT ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU HAD INDICATED TO HIM THAT DAY THAT HE WOULD BE INTERESTED IN

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# CONFIDENTIAL

ND FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

RECEIVING AID FROM GARCERAN IN THE FORM OF ABOUT 40 CUBAN EMIGRES WHO WOULD BE WILLING TO GO TO NICARAGUA FOR TRAINING IN PREPARATION FOR AN EVENTUAL COUP AGAINST THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT. ALEJOS PROMISED GARCERAN THAT IF THE COUP WERE SUCCESSFUL, ALEJOS WOULD ESTABLISH A CUBAN GOVERNMENT IN EXILE IN GUATEMALA WITH GARCERAN AS ITS "PRESIDENT."

3. GARCERAN SAID THAT THE PLAN IS MERELY IN THE "TALKING STAGE" AND STRESSED THAT THERE ARE AS YET NO SPECIFIC PLANS, LOCATIONS, OR TIMETABLES IN EFFECT.

4. ALEJOS SAID THAT HE HAD MADE SEVERAL TRIPS TO GUATEMALA, AND SPECIFICALLY MENTIONED A MEETING HE HAD HAD WITH ROJAS MARROQUI (FNU) ON 14 SEPTEMBER DURING THE COURSE OF A FOUR-DAY TRIP "THROUGH THE FRONTIER." ON THE SAME TRIP ALEJOS ALSO MET WITH ABUNDIO MALDONADO, JOSE LUIS ARENAS, VILLAGRAN KRAMER, TWO BARRIOS PENA BROTHERS, AND MARIO MENDEZ MONTENEGRO. (FIELD COMMENT: MENDEZ MONTENEGRO WAS CHIEF OF POLICE DURING THE REGIME OF JACOBO ARBENZ GUZMAN AND RAN FOR PRESIDENT OF THE REVOLUTIONARY PARTY TICKET IN 1957.) IN ADDITIONA ALEJOS MET WITH UNNAMED "NON-COMMUNIST" SUPPORTERS OF FORMER PRESIDENT JUAN JOSE AREVALO AS WELL AS WITH SUPPORTERS OF ENRIQUE PERALTA AZURDIA, CHIEF OF STATE, AND COLONEL MIGUEL ANGEL PONCIANO, CHIEF OF STAFF OF THE GUATEMALAN ARMY. (FIELD COMMENT: TDCSDD-315/03135-65, 25 SEPTEMBER 1965, REPORTED THAT ALEJOS WAS ASKED TO LINE UP DEHIND PONCIANO IN AN ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW PERALTA.) ALEJOS SAID THAT HE MET WITH THE MILITARY LEADERS

CONFIDENTIAL

ND FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLLO DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

CONFIDENTIAL

TDCSDB-315/03317-65                                                                                                                                    PAGE 3

AT CAMPO DE MARTE IN FRONT OF THE HEADQUARTERS OF THE GUARD OF HONOR.
HE SAID THAT DURING HIS ILLEGAL TRIPS TO GUATEMALA HE HAD STAYED
IN ABOUT 11 DIFFERENT HOUSES.

5. ALEJOS TOLD GARCERAN THAT, IN ORDER FOR HIS COUP TO
   HAVE ANY CHANCE FOR SUCCESS, IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT HE HAVE THE
   FULL SUPPORT OF THE GUATEMALAN AIR FORCE. HE ASSURED GARCERAN THAT
   HE HAS SUCH SUPPORT.

6. ALEJOS SAID THAT HE WOULD SUPPLY THE NECESSARY ARMS AND
   EQUIPMENT TO THE CUBAN EMIGRES. RECRUITED BY GARCERAN. HE REVEALED
   THAT THE LOCATION OF THE TRAINING SITE WOULD BE IN NORTHERN
   NICARAGUA, A NECESSARY CHOICE BECAUSE SOUTHERN NICARAGUA IS TO
   BE USED BY THE SOMOZA/SCHECK FORCES AS A LAUNCHING SITE FOR A COUP
   AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT OF COSTA RICA. (FIELD COMMENT: THIS PROBABLY
   INVOLVES THE PLANS OF MIGUEL RUIZ HERRERA, A COSTA RICAN REVOLUTIONARY
   AND LEADING ORGANIZER IN NICARAGUA OF A COUP EFFORT AGAINST COSTA
   RICA, ON WHICH THERE HAS BEEN SUBSTANTIAL REPORTING.)

7. (FIELD COMMENT: A NEW SOURCE, WHOSE ACCESS IS BELIEVED
   TO BE GOOD, REPORTED IN LATE SEPTEMBER THAT ONE CARLOS ALEJOS,
   RESIDENT OF MIAMI, HAS BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN MOVING A LARGE QUANTITY
   OF ARMS INTO GUATEMALA VIA EL SALVADOR AND HONDURAS AND THAT HE
   HAS ALSO BEEN SUCCESSFUL IN ENLISTING THE SUPPORT OF QUATEMALAN
   EXILES IN MEXICO FOR HIS COUP. ALEJOS 13 PROBABLY IDENTICAL
   WITH ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU.)

8. FIELD DISSEMI CINCEO, CINGLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

CONFIDENTIAL

NO FOREIGN DISSEN CONTROLLED OISSEH IN 71454

TOCS00-315/03317-65 PAGE 4

OF STATE, FBI, I&NS, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, FAA, AND USCG.

(ALSO SENT PANAMA CITY, GUATEMALA CITY, MEXICO CITY, SAN SALVADOR,
TEGUCIGALPA, SAN JOSE AND MANAGUA.)

CONFIDENTIAL

END OF MESSAGE

/CONTROLLIG DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

JMWAVE

ACTION ClWH6 GRID COPY

FILEUR ADDP AC/WHICS, C/CIC/FIZ

SECRET 292302Z

DIR INFO MANA CITE WAVE 6214

REF A WAVE 5431(IN 43038)

B DIR 43562

C WAVE 5849 (IN 54607)

DESENSITIZED

1.  AMCLATTER 1 MET DR JULIO (GARCERAN) DEL VALL SOUZA AFTER LATTER'S RETURN FROM WASHINGTON 22 SEP 65. GARCERAN REPORTED HE INVITED BLANCA ROSA MAYORGAS AND HUSBAND COL JOHN KELLY DINNER 20 SEP 65. COL KELLY DID NOT ATTEND DINNER, HIS WIFE EXPLAIN ING TO GARCERAN THAT HER HUSBAND HEAVY DRINKER AND HAD EXCEEDED HIS QUOTA THAT DAY. FROM COMMENTS MADE BY MAYORGAS GARCERAN INFERS COL KELLY RETIRED BUT "STILL WORKS PENTAGON IN CIVILIAN STATUS IN ALLOCATION OF TROOPS IN VIET NAM."

2.  MAYORGAS TOLD GARCERAN SHE HAD NOT YET TRAVELED TO NICARAGUA BUT STILL PLANS DOING SO AROUND FIRST PART OF 66." GARCERAN DID NOT FURSUE MATTER FUPTHER ORDER NOT APOUSE UNDUE SUSPICION HIS INTEREST HER PLANNED TRIP.

3.  GARCERAN FURTHER LEARNED THAT MAYOROAS NOT CUBAN BUT NICARAGUAN CITIZEN. HE HAD KNOWN HEP IN CUDA WHEN SHE WAS STUDYING

DESENSITIZED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

SECRET ING2395 PAGE 2

ITALIAN IN HAVANA. AT THAT TIME SHE MARRIED TO FNU DEBARGAS (PHONETIC), A MEMBER OF ITALIAN EMBASSY HAVA. LIVED AT PASEO AND 17 STPEFT, VEDADO. MAYORGAS ALSO SAID SHE "AT ONE TIME" WAS MEMBER NICARAGUAN CONSULAR STAFF IN SAN FRANCISCO.

4. WAVE FILES REFLECT NO TRACES DEBARGAS OR VARIANTS. PERHAPS ODACID COULD IDENTIFY. DID ODENVY INTERVIEW GARCERAN PER REF B.

SECRET

CFN 6214 5431 43562 5849 AMCLATTER/1 DR JUL10.GARCERAN DEL VALL

SOUZA 22 65 BLANCA ROSA MAYORGAS COL JOHN KELLY 20 65 NOT ATTEND

VIET NAM NOT YET 66 NOT PURSUE NOT AROUSE NOT CUBAN FNU DEBARGAS

PASEO 17 STREET VEDADO NO TRACES B

BT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

INDER: YES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.
R-EEF TO FILE NO.
FILE DIDO RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
22 SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ANCLATTER-1
201
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

eIcS
Fl
T
An
UNIT
TIME

Action IMWAYE

☑ RID COPY ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBEO

FILE, VR WHR CY C/OPS C1/1623 FI

SECRET 0821272

DIR BOGO CITE WAVE 7112

TYPIC MHGUILE

REF DIR 56346 X

RE PARA 2 REF. IN TALKING WITH AMCLATTER/1 HECTOR CLETO ORIZONDO SAID HE JUST RETURNED FROM BOGO, IS NOW LOOKING FOR RANCHLAND EVERGLADES AREA FOR CATTLE RAISING AT REQUEST UNNAMED WEALTHY COLOMBIANS.

SECRET

CFN: 7112 56346 RE 2 AMCLATTER/1 HECTOR CLETO ORIZONDO BOGO
* CAN YOU CINFIRED ORIZONDO'S RETURN FROM BOGO
  EVERGLADES COLOMBIANS
  SECRET

8 Nov 65 IN 90695


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

File-AMCLATTER-1

SECRET 021737Z

POGO INFO DIR CITE WAVE 6982

DYVOUR PERUMEN

PEF A BOGO 6317 (@77677)

BOGO 6262 (@69601)*

STATION ASSET AMCLATTER/1, USING APPROPRIATE COVER LOCAL CUBAN
EXILE GROUP, CONTACTED HECTOR CLETO OR IZ ONDO-SOR ES 29 OCT 65.
OR IZ OND O CLAIMS NEVER HEARD OF JULIO TOMAS CRUZ, A/1 BELIEVES
HE TELLING TRUTH.

SECRET *REQUESTED TRACES ON HECTOR

CFN 6982 6317 6262 AMCLATTER/I HECTOR CLETO OR IZ OND O-BOR ES

89 65 JULIO TOMAS ORUZ A/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFY A FILE .
FILE RIDUCT. TO BRANCH
PESTROV SIG.

TOTAL COPIES: 27

# SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ELPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

JM/WAVE

WH/C CD/AU

ADVANCE COPY

RID COPY

ISSUED SLOTTED

FILE, VR, WH/C8, CT, CT/OPS, CT/EC2, CT/OA, ET, ET/SPG, FI/INT 2

IMMEDIATE DIR INFO MANA ETTE WAVE 5849

FORUL ANCLATIER:!

17 SEP 65 IN 54007

REF: DIP 40562

WAVE HAS NO OBJECTION CONTACT IN CONNECTION.

RE: PLOT. HOWEVER STRONGLY URGE HQS IMPRESS WITH NECESSITY

MCIECI WAVE SOURCE THIS MATTER AND AIRIBUTE INFO TO OTHER THAN WAVE
SOURCE, C.G. ONE OR SEVERAL KELLY'S "WIDE MILITARY CONTACTS WASHINGTON"

WOULD IMPLY BEING QUESTIONED RE HIS OWN POSSIBLE INVOLVEMENT

SINCE HE KNOWN BE FRIEND OF KELLY'S.

2. RE PARA 2 QUERY, SEE NO NECESSITY CONTACT ANCLATTER..

SINCE HE HAS NO PERSONAL KNOWLEDGE OF PLOT BEYOND THAT TOLD HIM BY
WHICH FULLY REPORTED BY WAVE. WOULD RECONSIDER

CONTACT ANCLATTER I IN EVENT DIRECT QUESTIONING FAILS ACHIEVE
OBJECTIVE.

# SECRET

CPN 3043 43562 NO OBJECTION KELLY'S WASHINGTON

NO NECESSITY ANCLATTER I NO PERSONAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

# REQUEST FOR NAME CHECK

DEPARTM OF STATE
FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

2 TO: Dept ment of State

Visa Office

Office of Security - Att'n SY/I Liatson

4. APPLICANT (Includes maiden name/aliases, etc.)

Clara Elena FER!! NDEZ Collago de BA KER
mult maiden name formerly JELMEZ CollaZO

5. FROM:

RICCHE ITUT Toronto

6. PLACE OF BIRTH (Province, Country)
   Habana, Cuba

7. DATE OF BIRTH
   12/12/17

8. ACTION REQUESTED

SECURITY ADVISORY
OPINION

WAIVER UNDER
212(d)(3)(A)

9. PRESENT ADDRESS
   4400 N.W. 5th St., Miami, Fla.

OTHER
(See Item 27)

RAME CHECK

10. REFERENCE (Previous correspondence, Foreign Affairs Manual, etc.)

11. DISTINGUISHING MARKS OF IDENTIFICATION

none

12. SEX 13. MARITAL STATUS
    F Married

14. OCCUPATION (Include name and address of employer)
    Floorlady at Dept. Store

15. NATIONALITY
    Cuban

16. PURPOSE OF VISIT AND DESTINATION OR ITINERARY IN U.S.
    to reside

17. REASON FOR REQUEST, OR TYPE OF PROGRAM

18. LENGTH OF STAY
    permanently

19. TYPE PASSPORT
    Cuban

20. FATHER'S NAME
    Amado JIMENEZ Campe

21. MOTHER'S MAIDEN NAME
    America COLLAZO Leine

22. SPOUSE (Maiden name)
    Bornord L. BRKER

23. APPLICANT TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY:

24. RESIDENCES PAST 18 YEARS (Dates, street addresses, cities, countries)

8/33 to 5/13 34, Hotel Roma O'Reilly St., Habana, Cuba
5/34 to 8/36 Hargrave Hotel 72nd. Now York, N.J.
8/36 to 6/46 San Miguel and Lan, Habana, Cuba
6/46 to 5/47 Vernan Field Jamaica D.W.I.(Husb. U.S.org)
5/47 to 2/60 Calle 98 #5901 Marionco, Cuba
2/60 to pres. 420 H.W. 44th Ave., Miami, Ma.
4400 N.W. 5th St.,

6. RELATIVES IN U. S. (Names, street addresses, cities, states)
   Mrs. America Alvares 1401 Magnolin Dr., Augusta, On. Mother

APPILIATIONS

K. gide Demorata

Return to Vice Ollise

REQUESTING OFFICE

RESULTS OF THIS REQUERY
(For use of Office of Becurity)

NO RECORD

SECURITY INFORMATION ATAGRID

NO DEROGATORY INFORMATION

OTHER (Bee below)

ATMANNS
NPIL
16 Sept 65

10 SEP 1965

FILE IN 201-951687 (habadi 201)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, JMWAVE

INFO:

FROM: Chief, WHD

SUBJECT: TYPIC/Operational
* AMCLATTER-1

ACTION REQUIRED: REFERENCES

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

REFERENCE: UFGA 20475

Subject was granted an Operational Approval 31 March 1965.

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - JMWAVE

---

CROSS REFERENCE TO

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: UPCH-8000

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

201-281689

03 APR 1965

DOC FILE NUMBER: 201-861609

| ROUTING | OFFICE       | NAME               | DATE     | EXT. |
| ------- | ------------ | ------------------ | -------- | ---- |
|         | WH/C/RR/OBOA | W. Uttery          | 9 Apr 65 | 7840 |
|         | WH/C/RR/OBOA | J. Houghan         |          |      |
|         | WH/C/MO/F    | M. Darling         |          |      |
|         | C/WHD        | Desmond Fitzgerald |          |      |

---

![stamp of routing information]

![signature of routing information]

DISPATCH

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

SECRET

201 No.251689

CLATTER-1

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/C/RR/POSOR-

WH/C/MO/FI (Darling)

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of AMCLATTER/1

for the purpose specified in your request

dated 29 March 1965

FYI & file

UFGA: 20475

"FI-CI Support agent.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-0.

/s/ Edward P. Brown
CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 31 March 1965

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

201-251689

![Stamp]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

SECRET

29 March 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR: -Chief, CI-OA-

SUBJECT : AMCLATTER/1
201-251689

Attached for your retention is one copy of Subject's
PRQ Part II. An Operational Approval is hereby requested.

![signature of Joseph Mongherd]
for John L. Hart
Deputy Chief, WH/C

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee w att.
1 - WH/C/RR/OSOA
1 - 201-251689

SECRET

GROUP 1 EXCLUDED FROM
AUTOMATIC DOWNGRADING
AND DECLASSIFICATION

201-251689


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# DISPATCH

TO Deputy Chief, WH/SA

CLASSIFICATION SECRET

PROCESSING

XXX NO INDEKING REQUIRED

FROM Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT Operational/TYPIC
PRQ Part II for AMCLATTER/1

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES Process Subject for an OA

Refs: A. UFGW-4928, 5 March 1965
B. WAVE-9534, 15 March 1965

Attached herewith as requested in Reference A is a completed PRQ Part II for AMCLATTER/1.

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

deplustion could be tor paind

Distributions:
3- DO, WH/BA (W/PRQ II, h/w)

CS しじか?

10 Mar 08

UPGA-20478

MAR 23 1989


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM

10 SEP 1965

TO:
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigatis
Attention: Hr. J. J. Papich

FROM:
Deputy director for Plans

SUBJECT: Involvement of Blance ROSS MAYORGAS.
Wife of U.S. Army Colonel Juan R. Kelly,
la Plans to Cverthrow the Government of Nicaragua

1. Reference is made to paragraph 4 of TOCADB-313/
   03854-0), dated 1 september 1963, Subject Romarks iace
   By General Anastasto SOMOZA Concerning Deniel Coubra of
   Costa Rica cad Communist Plans für Revolutionary Acti
   Against Conte Ries, Nicaragua, and Paaras.

2. Jaree of the following information, who was also
   source of above reference, is a kisni businessman, vas
   resident of Havana for several years and who has esteets
   who recnaino him as a channel to U.S, intelligence. The
   informative received 1 August 1905.

A. Or. Julio GARCIRAN del Vall seura,
former Cubes Supreme Court Magistrate, said
thore is a plat office to overthrow the Govern-
ment of Niwerague.

B. On 1 August 1963, GARCAN vatted
Blanda Rose BATONGAS, whom he know in Cube,
at kor bono, 110 Longfellur street, .....
Voobingtue, D.C. where els restre 100 bor
... AFB, Colonoi jube A. sdüif, vbo
to deployed in the pentagon. Pianca Foes told
CARTERAS that obe value en to leaving for Rider最值明旅
vhers hor anain, she married Toonit
11.06. 48 the renvout of gracelnou,
Teorefteris 100 Amoriese and brother of
220 001004 toltver noene end repres to s
number of Nicaraguens he, with re801000
AGUEDRE, are involved in plans to overthres tus

SECRET NO FOREIGN DISSEM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

# SECRET TO FOREIGN DISSEM

C. GARCEEAN explained that on 4 August he accompanied his Washington delegate, Gerardo MORA, to the home of Col. KELLY, who, according to MORA, has wise military contacts in Washington because of his position in the pentagon. GARCEEAN had prepared a memorandum which he left with KELLY, who was to try to arrange an interview with Secretary, MCNAMARA for GARCEEAN. When GARCEEAN changed his mind about the proposed meeting with Secretary, MCNAMARA, who would probably not receive him anyway because of pressing problems in Vietnam, he returned to the KELLY home on 8 August to request return of his memorandum. He was received by Blanco Ross, who told him that Francisco AGUIRRE had waited to see him but had to leave. She then told GARCEEAN about her mission for AGUIRRE for which she was especially suited because of her relationship to Mrs. Tchite “AURORA” and because her husband is a U.S. Colonel, whose status would place her above suspicion.

3. No additional information is available to this office concerning Blanco Rosa MAYOBAS.

4. Files of this office identify one Gerardo MORA, of Cuban origin, as a lawyer employed at the CIA in Washington, D.C.

5. Additional information is available in this office concerning GARCEEAN, Francisco AGUIRRE, and Horacio AGUIAR

CSI-316/07323-63

OO: Office of the Secretary of Defense
Dept. of state (security)

DDP/WH/2/N Helen Morgan

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
2 - WH/2/WH10
3 - RI (N3-9-8)
4 - CI/LIA
5 - CI/OSA
6 - Off. Sec. of Defense
7 - Dept. of State

T - WH/C/WH/71
9 September 1969

RADIO: WAVE 0431
(AMLiATTRR-1)
(Whitney Tucker)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

EVOER VES
ANCLATTER-1 (201)
ASSIFY TO FILE NO.
TOTAL COPIES. 55
EF TO FILL NO.
FILE RIDO RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
2/30 SECRET
PERSON/ONIT NOTIFIED
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FROM
JnwAVE
ACTION
INFO
WHE
ADVANCE COPY
D COPY
SLOTTED TUSED
FILE, VR Wi/c8 C1/16, CI/OPEC, FI, CI/ON
Cilps suot Filot

DIR INFO MANA CITE WAVE 5431
31 Aus 65 IN 43038
DYVOUR PERUMEN AMCLATTER-1

1. ACCORDING AMCLATTER-1, DR. JULIO GARCERAN DEL VALL SOIZA,
   FORMER CUBAN SUPREME COURT MAGISTRATE, SAID THERE PLOT AFOOT TO
   OVERTHROW SCHICK GOVERNMENT.

2. ACCORDING GARCERAN, ON 5 AUG 65 HE VISITED BLANCA ROSA
   MAYORGAS, WHOM HE KNEW IN CUBA, AT HER HOME, 1319 LONGELLOW ST.,
   NW, WASHINGTON, D. C., WHERE SHE RESIDES WITH HER HUSBAND, U.S. ARMY
   COLONEL JOHN N. KELLY WHO EMPLOYED PENTAGON. BLANCA KOSA TOLD
   GARCERAN THAT SHE WOULD SOONE BE LEAVING FOR NICARAGUA WHERE HER
   COUSIN LIVES, WHO MARRIED TO TACHITO SOMOZA. AT REQUEST OF FRANCISCO
   AGUIRRE, OWNER OF DIARIO LAS AMERICAS AND BROTHER OF HORACIO AGIRRE,
   MANAGING EDITOR, SHE HAS AGREED DELIVER MESSAGES AND REPORTS TO
   NUMBER OF NICARAGUANS WHO WITH FRANCISCO AGUIRRE INVOLVED PLANS OVER-
   THROW SCHICK GOVERNMENT.

3. GARCERAN EXPLAINED THAT ON 4 AUG HE HAD ACCOMPANIED "HIS
   WASHINGTON DELEGATE" GERARDO MORA TO HOME OF COL. KELLY WHO, ACCORDING
   TO MORA, HAS WIDE MILITARY CONTACTS WASHINGTON BY VIRTHE HOS POSITION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

SECRET: IN43038 PAGE 2

IN PENTAGON. GARCERAN HAD PREPARED MEMO WHICH HE LEFT WITH KELLY
WHO WAS TO TRY OBTAIN INTERVIEW WITH SECRETARY MCNAMARA FOR GARCERAN.
WHEN GARCERAN CHANGED HIS MIND ABOUT PROPOSED MEETING WITH MCNAMARA,
WHO WOULD PROBABLY NOT RECEIVE HIM DUE PRESSING VIETNAM PROBLEM, HE
RETURNED TO KELLY HOME ON 5 AUG TO REQUEST RETURN OF MEMO. HE
RECEIVED BY BLANCA ROSA WHO TOLD HIM THAT FRANCISCO AGUIRRE HAD BEEN
WAITING TO SEE HIM BUT HAD TO LEAVE. SHE THEN TOLD GARCERAN HER
MISSION FOR AGUIRRE (DESCRIBED PARA 2), ONE FOR WHICH SHE ESPECIALLY
SUITED IN VIEW HER RELATIONSHIP TO MRS. TACHITO SOMOZA AND FACT HER
HUSBAND U.S. COLONEL. LATTERS STATUS WOULD PLACE HER ABOVE
SUSPICION.

4. WAVE WILL ADVISE IF AND WHEN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION RECEIVED
   THIS REGARD.

5. WAVE FILES REFLECT NO TRACES ROSA MAYORGAS, KELLY OR TACHITO
   SOMOZA. MORA MAY BE IDEN WITH GERARDO MORA RIVERA WHO LAWYER EMPLOYED
   OAS WASHINGTON. ACCORDING DBF-45084, 9 MAR 60, FRANCISCO AND HORACIO
   (201-045645) AGUIRRE BACA REPORTEDLY MET WITH CASTRO BROTHERS OCT 59
   TO DISCUSS PLANS FOR INVASION NICARAGIJA. FRANCISCO DENIED THIS
   IN DBF-69629, 31 JAN 61. POA OBTAINED ON FRANCISCO CANCELLED FEB 61.
   ACCORDING TDCS-3/387,024, 4 FEB 59, HORACIO ACTING AS LIASON AGENT

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

SECRETI

BETWEEN NICARAGUAN REVOLUTIONARIES AND CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS. ACCORDING DBF-40783, 20 JAN 60, PERSONS ACQUAINTED WITH HORACIO BELIEVED HE NOT ENGAGED REVOLUTIONARY ACTIVITIES AGAINST NICARAGUA. HE LABELLED COMMUNIST AGENT OPERATING MIAMI AREA BY DOMINICAN INTEL CHIEF TORRES IN HD CA 2000, 21 APR 60.

SECRET

CFN: 5431 -1 -DR JULIO GARCERAN DEL VALL SOUZA CUBAN SCHICK
GARCERAN 5 65 BLANCA ROSA MAYORGAS CUBA 1319, LONGFELLOW ST NW WASHINGTON D C U.S. ARMY COLONEL JOHN H KELLY PENTAGON BLANCA ROSA GARCERAN NICARAGUA TACHITO SOMOZA FRANCISCO AGUIRRE DIARO LAS AMERICAS HORACIO AGUIRRE NICARAGUANS FRANCISCO AGIJIRRE SCHICK GARCERAN 4 "HIS WASHINGTON DELEGATE" GERARDO MORA COL KELLY MORA WASHINGTON PENTAGON GARCERAN KELLY MCNAMARA GARCERAN GARCERAN MCNAMARA NOT RECEIVE VIETNAM KELLY 5 BLANCA ROSA FRANCISCO AGUIRRE GARCERAN AGUIRRE 2 MRS TACHITO SOMOZA U.S. WAVE WAVE NO TRACES ROSA MAYORGAS KELLY TACHITO SOMOZA MORA GERARDO MORA RIVERA OAS WASHINGTON DBF 45084 9 60 FRANCISCO HORACIO 201-045645 AGUIRRE BACA CASTRO 99 NICARAGUA FRANCISCO DBF 69692 31 61 POA FRANCISCO 61 TDCS-3/387,024
4.  59 HORACIO NICARAGUAN CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS DBF 40783 20 60
HORACIO NOT ENGAGED NICARAGUA COMMUNIST MIAMI DOMINICAN TORRES

HDCA 2000 21 60

SECRETA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
REF TO FILE NO

(REVISED 4-65)
MFG 544
ROUTING

34 SECRET

FILE RID RET TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG

FROM:

ACTION: WH 8 RID COPY

INFO:
VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/CPS, CI/IC 2, FR, FR/D, FR/INT
SOD 4, CA/O 4, CI/PS, RI/AN, IW, WH/C8

AD/CI 2

SECRET 121901Z
12 JUN 65 2124Z IN 89148

DIR INFO PACY LANT BARR GUAT MEXI TEGU SJOS CITE WAVE 2946

INTEL DYVOUR JMPÁLM

SUPDATA: AMCLATTER-1/FROM HIS DAUGHTER WHO OBTAINED INFO FROM
ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU'S DAUGHTER 10 JUNE 65. FIELD COMMENT PARA
TWO BASED UFG-7266. RID: INDEX. FILED 1219/12
REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTILA CONTROLLED DISSEM
CUBA/GUATEMALA

SUBJ: CANCELLATION OF EUROPEAN VACATION BY ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU,
QUATEMALAN EXILE REPORTED TO BE RESUMING EFFORTS TO OVERTHROW
THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT

DOI: 10 JUNE 65

PADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (11 JUNE 65)

UEG-7270
W COMMENT

RELEASING I WO

NO DISSEMINATION OF THE ATTACHED
TO PORTION OF THIS CABLE NAS UAN
MADE OUTSIDE THE AGENCY PENDING
RELEASE BY THE ACTION UNIT

TDCS
ROUTINE
BASED ON
PRIORITY

DATE DISTRIBUTID

LIAISON
GROUP 1
EXCLUDED FROM AUTOMATIC
DOWNGRADING AND
DECLASSIFICATION

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NC
REF TO FILE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

FROM:
ACTION: ☑RID COPY
INFO: VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, R, R/D , FI/INT

IN 89148

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO UNITED STATES INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A PERSON WHO SPOKE WITH THE DAUGHTER OF ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU.

[Figure: illegible text with an individual's signature.]

W COMMENT

[Figure: Form with lines to be filled in.]

RELEASING I.WG:
DATE DISTRIBUTED:
TOCS
ROUTINE
BASED ON:
PRIORITY
LIAISON:
[Figure: text and signiture inside a rectangular block]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

# SECRET
When Filled In

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
## Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY:
DATE OF INFO:
PLACE &
DATE ACQ:
SOURCE
AND
APPRAISAL:
TDCS
SUBJECT:

DISTR:
REF:
IN IN 89148
FIELD REPORT NO.

1.  ON 10 JUNE 1965, CRISTINA ALEJOS, DAUGHTER OF ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, A GUATEMALAN MILLIONAIRE LIVING IN EXILE IN MIAMI BEACH, FLORIDA, SAID THAT HER FATHER HAD CANCELLED HIS PLANS TO VACATION IN EUROPE THIS SUMMER. SHE SAID THAT HE CANNOT OBTAIN THE FUNDS THAT HE HAS IN GUATEMALA AND THAT HE DOES NOT WANT TO USE THE MONEY HE HAS IN THE UNITED STATES FOR THE TRIP.

(FIELD COMMENT: ACCORDING TO TOCSDB-315/01726-65, DATED 20 MAY 1965, THE SAME SOURCE REPORTED THAT ALEJOS HAD PLANNED TO TAKE HIS WIFE AND DAUGHTER ON A EUROPEAN VACATION IN EARLY JUNE

AND THAT HIS ITINERARY INCLUDED *ITALY, FRANCE, AND SWITZERLAND*).

# SECRET
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR ICS SECDEF NSA NIC AID USIA OCI ONI OCA ORA OO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# SECRET

2. (FIELD COMMENT: ALEJOS HAD RECRUITED ABOUT 30 CUBAN
   EXILES IN THE MIAMI AREA WHOM HE INTENDED TO USE IN AN
   ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GUATEMALAN GOVERNMENT. HOWEVER, THE
   OPERATION ABORTED IN EARLY MAY WHEN HE AND LUIS SIERRA LOPEZ,
   MILITARY LEADER OF THE EXILES, WERE APPREHENDED AND THEIR ARMS
   CACHES WERE SEIZED BY U'ITED STATES GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS.
   HOWEVER, ON 8 JUNE, ALEJOS IS REPORTED TO HAVE ASKED ODELIO GARCIA
   DERIZANZ, A CUBAN EXILE LIVING IN MIAMI, TO RECRUIT ABOUT 50
   MEN FOR A VENTURE THAT ALEJOS IS PLANNING, WHICH IS BELIEVED
   TO INVOLVE THE AREA OF PETEN, IN NORTHERN GUATEMALA. ACCORDING
   TO GARCIA, ALEJOS SAID THAT HE WOULD BE GOING TO COSTA RICA WITHIN
   A WEEK WHERE HE EXPECTED TO SEE FORMER GUATEMALAN PRESIDENT MIGUEL
   YDIGORAS FUENTES AND WHERE HE WOULD REMAIN FOR ABOUT ONE MONTH.
   ANOTHER SOURCE REPORTED THAT ALEJOS TOLD GARCIA THAT HE (ALEJOS)
   HAD ALREADY MADE ONE TRIP TO HONDURAS AND COSTA RICA AND HAD
   MET WITH YDIGORAS. ALEJOS CLAIMED THAT HE AND YDIGORAS HAD AGREED
   TO REMAIN QUIET UNTIL JULY WHEN THEY WOULD BE BACK IN BUSINESS
   BUILDING THE *FORCES* FOR A COUP).

3. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS
   OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, JANS, FAA, BORDER PATROL, USCG, (ALSO
   SENT QUATEMALA CITY, MEXICO CITY, TEQUCIDALPA, AND SAN JOSE).

SECRET

END OF MESSAGE

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

DATE[ ] YES [ ] NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
X REF TO FILE NO

FROM: JM/WAVE

ACTION: IW [X] RID COPY (COPY)

TO:
D1, D/D1. NOP,
IP. FILE, ADDP, CA 2, PA/PEG, CA/FROP, CI/OFS, WH/C 11. FI/0
SOD 4, DO/H, CA/O 4, CI, CI/PS. FI/SPG, RI/AN, WH/C 12, WI/CS/PR

SECRET TT01142 11 JUNE 0300Z 65 11187815

PRIORITY DIR SOON INFO FACY LANT BARR CITE WAVE 2805

INTEL TYPIC

SUBDATA: AMCLATTER-1 FROM (PLS PROTECT),
FORMER CUBAN POLICEMAN, FROM ATON CONSTANZO PALAU ON 8 AND 9
JUNE 65." RIDI INDEX. FILED 1101142

REPORT CLASS CONFIDENTIAL CONTROLLED DISSEM

CUBA/DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

SUBJ: RECRUITMENT OF CUDAN EXILES .BY ATON CONSTANZO PALAU TO
JOIN THE RANKS OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN THE DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC IN THEIR FIGHT AGAINST FRANCISCO CAAMANO DENO

DOI: 8-9 JUNE 1965

FADA: UNITED STATES, MIAMI (16 JUNE 1965)

IFO-7261

WI/2/DR/RE
I/C

RELEASING TWO:

LAURIE M. RIEDELL

DATE DISTRIBUTED:
11 JUNE 1969
0034 Z

TDCS DB-319/02003-69

ROUTINE PRIORITY
BASED ON: UFG-7261
NO PROJECT (AMCLATTER-1)

LIAISON: H

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

INDEX ☐ YES ☐ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO
X REF TO FILE NO

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
FILE RID ☐ REI TO BRANCH ☐
DESTROY ☐ SIG

FROM:

ACTION: ☑ RID COPY

INFO: VR, FILE, ADDP, CA 2, CA/PEG, CA/PROP, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, H/D, H/WT

PAGE 2 IN 87815

SOURCE: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HABANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A CUBAN EXILE WHO SPOKE WITH ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

COMMENT

RELEASING I WO

DATE DISTRIBUTED

SECRET

TDCS

ROUTINE
BASED ON
PRIORITY

LIAISON

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

# CONFIDENTIAL

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
Intelligence Information Cable

* PRIORITY

COUNTRY DOMINICAN REPUBLIC TDCS DB-315/02005-65

DATE OF 8 - 9 JUNE 1965 DISTR. 11 JUNE 1965
INFO.

SUBJECT
RECRUITMENT OF CUBAN EXILES BY ATON CONSTANZO PALAU
TO JOIN RANKS OF THE FORCES OF GENERAL IMBERT AND
GENERAL WESSIN Y WESSIN

PLACE & DATE ACQ. UNITED STATES, MIAMI (10 JUNE 1965)

REF IN 87815
FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-7261

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL: A MIAMI BUSINESSMAN WHO WAS A RESIDENT OF HAVANA FOR SEVERAL YEARS. THE SOURCE HAS CONTACTS WHO RECOGNIZE HIM AS A CHANNEL TO U.S. INTELLIGENCE. THIS INFORMATION WAS OBTAINED FROM A CUBAN EXILE WHO SPOKE WITH ATON CONSTANZO PALAU.

1. FIELD COMMENT: IT HAS PREVIOUSLY BEEN REPORTED/THAT A
   (SEE TDCSDB-315/01965-65)
   COMMANDO TEAM OF 49 CUBAN EXILES AND 11 AMERICANS IS BEING FORMED IN
   MIAMI, FLORIDA, BY ODELIO GARCIA DERIZANZ AND GERALD PATRICK HEMMING,
   AN AMERICAN ADVENTURER AND SOLDIER-OF-FORTUNE. ATON CONSTANZO
   PALAU AND RAMON ESCARDA RUBIO APPEAR TO BE LEADERS WITHIN THE GROUP.
   THE COMMANDO TEAM IS ALLEGEDLY TO BE USED BY DOMINICAN GENERAL
   ANTONIO IMBERT BARRERAS, HEAD OF THE LOYALIST FORCES IN THE
   DOMINICAN REPUBLIC, PRESUMABLY TO TRY TO TOPPLE FRANCISCO CAAMANO
   DENO, LEADER OF THE REBEL FORCES. THE FINANCIAL BACKER OF THE
   COMMANDO TEAM HAS BEEN DESCRIBED AS AN AMERICAN LAWYER LIVING IN MIAMI.)

CONFIDENTIAL
STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCB SECDEF NSA NIC
AD/CI 2. CIA/IMCC, FBI, I&NS, USCO, CUSTOMS, BORDER PATROL, FAA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

CONFIDENTIAL

MPO 1-44 (20)
CONTROLLED BISSEN IN 87815
TDCS DB-315/02005/ PAGE 2

2. ON 8 JUNE 1965, ATON CONSTANZO PALAU, A FORMER CUBAN REBEL ARMY CAPTAIN WHO RESIDES AT 752 SW 4TH STREET, MIAMI, FLORIDA, SAID THAT HE HAS BEEN ENGAGED IN THE RECRUITMENT OF 65 CUBAN EXILES WHO ARE TO FIGHT IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC. THE EXILES ARE BEING RECRUITED TO JOIN THE FORCES OF DOMINICAN GENERALS ELIAS WESSIN Y WESSIN AND ANTONIO IMBERT BARREPAS IN THEIR FIGHT AGAINST THE REBEL FORCES OF FRANCISCO CAAMANO DENO, AND ARE TO BE PAID $50 A DAY FOR THEIR SERVICES. ALL OF THE RECRUITS HAVE A REVOLUTIONARY BACKGROUND BUT DO NOT INCLUDE FORMER MEMBERS OF THE FORCES OF FULGENCIO BATISTA. CONSTANZO SAID THAT HE HAS BEEN RECRUITING THESE MEN FOR A RICH DOMINICAN BUSINESSMAN WHO LIVES IN THE MIAMI AREA.

3. CONSTANZO SAID THAT IN ABOUT APRIL 1965 HE HAD RECRUITED SEVERAL CUBAN EXILES FOR ROBERTO ALEJOS ARZU, A GUATEMALAN MILLIONAIRE LIVING IN MIAMI BEACH, WHO WERE TO BE USED BY ALEJOS IN HIS ATTEMPT TO OVERTHROW THE GOVERNMENT OF ENRIQUE PERALTA AZURDIA. CONSTANZO STRESSED THAT THERE WERE POLITICAL COMMITMENTS INVOLVED IN ALEJOS' RECRUITMENT OPERATION, IN THAT THE CUBAN EXILES WERE TO BE PERMITTED TO ESTABLISH AN ANTI-CASTRO BASE OF OPERATIONS IN QUATEMALA IF THE ATTEMPTED OVERTHROW WERE SUCCESSFUL. (FIELD COMMENTS ALEJOS' ATTEMPTED OVERTHROW ABORTED IN EARLY MAY AND THE CUBAN EXILES DISBANDED. CONSTANZO HAD BEEN RECRUITED FOR THE OPERATION AS A TEAM LEADER.) IN THE PRESENT RECRUITMENT OPERATION, HOWEVER, CONSTANZO POINTED OUT THAT THE PRIMARY ATTRACTION IS THE $50-A-DAY PAYMENT FOR SERVICES RENDERED.

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

CONFIDENTIAL

CONTROLLED DISSEN IN 87315
TDCS 08-315/02005/PAGE 3

4. GERALD PATRICK HEMMING, AN AMERICAN, IS REVIEWING ALL THE
   FORMS SUBMITTED BY THE POTENTIAL RECRUITS FOR THE OPERATION AND
   HAS THE AUTHORITY TO GIVE FINAL APPROVAL TO THE CANDIDATES. ON
   8 JUNE HE WAS SEEN DRESSED IN COVERALLS AND WAS WEARING A SILVER-
   COLORED HELMET, ATTIRE WHICH IS USUALLY EMPLOYED BY MEN ENGAGED
   IN CONSTRUCTION WORK.

5. AS OF 9 JUNE, A GROUP OF THE EXILES WAS SCHEDULED TO DEPART
   FROM THE UNITED STATES ON 12 JUNE, PRESUMABLY FOR THE DOMINICAN
   REPUBLIC.

6. FIELD DISSEM: CINCSO, CINCLANT, COMKWESTFOR, MIAMI REPS
   OF STATE, FBI, CUSTOMS, I&NS, BORDER PATROL, FAA AND USCG.
   (ALSO SENT SANTO DOMINGO.)

END OF MESSAGE

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

# DISPATCH

**CLASSIFICATION**
SECRET

**PROCESSING**

| PRO POSED | ACTION               | ACCOM PLISHED |
| --------- | -------------------- | ------------- |
| XXXX      | MARKED FOR INDEXING  |               |
|           | NO INDEXING REQUIRED |               |
|           | ONLY QUALIFIED       |               |
|           | HEADCY ARTERS DESK.  |               |
|           | CAN JUDGE INDEXING   |               |
|           | ABSTRACT             |               |
|           | MICROFILM            |               |

**TO**
Chief, WH

**INFO**

**FROM**
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

**SUBJECT**
TYPIC Operational
Receipt of Threatening Telephone Calls by AMCLATTER/1

**ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES**
FYI

1.  AMCLATTER/1 reported on 19 April 1965 that he had received that same evening a total of four phone calls from an unidentified party threatening to kill both his wife and himself.

2.  The first three phone calls were received between 1800 and 1830 hours whereas the fourth call was received at 2130 hours. The caller spoke fluent English and used extremely vile language insulting to both A/1 and his wife. The conversation during each phone call was short and made no sense to A/1 who said the caller at one point identified himself as Jerry WALKER when A/1 asked who was speaking. A/1 has never heard of anyone by this name and believes it to be fictitious. The caller also said on one occasion, "Ive been hearing the things you said about me up in Fort Lauderdale." Again, this remark made no sense to A/1.

Re: Threatening phone calls
received by Jrl-251689.

3.  A/1, when offered by his JMWAVE C/O the use of a motel room or safehouse for the evening, said that he appreciated our offer but was armed with a 38 caliber revolver and could take care of himself. He said that his wife and 18 year old daughter agreed with him about staying in their own house since they had fled their home once before in PBRUMEN and did not intend to run again. A/1 is of the opinion that the caller is a crank but has not ruled out the possibility that it may be PBRUMEN intel inspired. He said that one of his friends (IDEN) also had recently received a number of threatening phone calls from someone who spoke fluent Spanish but refused to identify himself by name.

4.  WAVE traces on WALKER are negative.

Chester R. Redrich
ANDREW K. REUTEMAN

Distribution:
VS-KE/Cuba (W/XDKN u/a/o)/(attached) CS COPY

**DATE TYPED**
30 Apr 68

**DATE DISPATCHED**
APR 3 0 1368

**DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER**
UFOA-213858

**HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER**
19-186-3-81/9

CH-1
L


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

Separate Cover Attachment to UFGA-21355

IDEN- Reynaldo PICO Ramon (201-284658)

MICROFILMED
MAY 10 1965
DOC. MICRO. SER.

Distribution:
3 - WH/Cuba

CS COPY

S/c
ATT #1 to UFGA-21355

SECRET

71-251689

![scribbled L]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)