# Yurily Ivanovich NOSENKO

IDENTIFICATION:

NOSENKO, Yurily Ivanovich, a Soviet KGB officer who defected in 1964 and was subsequently involuntarily confined in the U.S. by the Agency for a period of approximately three years.

BACKGROUND:

NOSENKO first contacted Agency personnel in Switzerland in June 1962 and subsequently defected in January 1964. NOSENKO was brought to the U.S. and after a period of relative freedom he was involuntarily confined in April 1964. From April 1964 to August 1965, he was confined at an Agency controlled site in Clinton, Maryland. From August 1965 to October 1967, NOSENKO was confined at Camp Peary Virginia. In October 1967, he was returned to the Washington area, given increasing amounts of freedom until he was given total freedom in April 1969. NOSENKO became a U.S. citizen in April 1974. NOSENKO was employed by the Agency as a consultant in March 1969 and continues under contract to date. His present salary is $23,500 per year.

APPROVAL:

(1) The legal basis to confine NOSENKO against his will was discussed by Mr. Richard Helms, DD/P, and others with the Deputy Attorney General on 2 April 1964 (Tab 1). On 3 April 1964, the Agency General Counsel, Mr. Lawrence Houston, advised the Director of Security by memorandum that such confinement was proper (Tab 2).

(2) There are a series of letters from the DDCI, DCI and others to various agencies, including the Department of Justice and the White House, covering the period 1964 to 1969, evidencing awareness of these agencies of the NOSENKO affair (Tab 3).

(3) The conditions of NOSENKO's confinement were established by the Office of Security (Tabs 4 & 5).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# RESULTS

By memorandum dated 2 October 1968,
the Director of Security forwarded
two reports to the DDCI summarizing
the results of the NOSENKO case to
that date. The reports are voluminous.
One was prepared by the Office of
Security and the other by the FBI.
Both reports conclude that NOSENKO
was a bona fide defector. A draft
memorandum attached to this file,
dated 21 October 1968 and prepared
by the CI Staff, raises question
regarding NOSENKO's bona fides
and challenges the above two reports.

# TERMINATION

NOSENKO continues under contract to
the Agency. He is brought to Washington,
periodically to consult on matters
germane to his background and experience.
Various reports are available in the
files of the Office of Security which
detail financial aspects of this case.
No final accounting has been made since
the project continues.

# COMMENTS

(1) While the Office of Security files
do document the rationale for the original
confinement of NOSENKO, they do not
document the rationale for his continued
confinement over so long a period of time.
A memorandum dated 5 August 1969 states
that various congressional staff officers
were briefed on NOSENKO and states that
concern for his safety, as well as con-
cern regarding his bona fides, prompted
the prolonged confinement. (See Tab 6)

(2) Office of Security files document
a period in 1969 during which a mail
cover was placed on NOSENKO.

(3) During the above period, NOSENKO
was allowed a pleasure trip to Florida.
During this trip, Agency personnel, with
apparent Headquarters approval, obtained
the services of prostitutes. This
apparently occurred on at least two
occasions.

2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

FILES:

Office of Security files on NOSENKO are maintained in the following locations:

OS/SSD (Contact - Mr. Charles Phalen)

OS/SAG (Contact - Mr. Bruce Solie)

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

SUBJECT: Discussion with Deputy Attorney-General on Nosenko Case-

1. Mr Helms, Mr. Houston and Mr. Murphy met with the Deputy Attorney General and members of his staff to discuss subject case. Present from Mr. Katzenbach's staff were Messrs. Foley, Yeagley and Reis.

2. Mr. Helms explained the Nosenko case briefly and indicated that shortly we would be faced with what we at least considered to be two problems on which we would like the advice of the Department of Justice. First, we would seeon feel compelled to begin hostile interrogation of Hosenko in order to arrive at the truth with respect to his mission for the KGB and we wondered what the legal position would be in circumstances in which we detained Nosenko against his will for this purpose. Second, we would have to be ready after determining that we could obtain no additional information from Nosenko to deport him. We had thought of taking him to Germany and transferring him to Soviat custody in Borlin where this has been done a number of times in the past.

3. There was some discussion of whether deportation to another country might be a consideration. Mr. Halms explained we would probably face publicity problems in deporting to a third country of the kind we would encounter if he were free in the U. S. Nr. Helms noted there were many items of information which we and the FBI realize are of no significance because of the file holdings we have but which an unscrupulous newspaper man could use to create mischief. This aspect was then dropped and it was the consensus that Berlin was probably the best place.

4. The question of the basis for detention was again raised and related by Mr. Foley to the conditions under which Nosenko is in this country. He is here as an "exclusion and parole case" which means he has not been admitted and has been paroled to the Agency which is responsible for him while he is in this country. This


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

EYES V

2-

parole can be interpreted to mean parole to a specific locale which would provide some justification for our detaining him for questioning. It was then pointed out, however, that if he said he wished to leave the country to return to the Soviet Union, technically we would not be able to detain him further. In this event, we would be faced with the need to deport him quickly and quietly and for this purpose the immigration warrant of arrest and deportation was probably the best instrument.

5. Mr. Katzenbach asked Mr. Foley to check into this and Mr. Foley will in turn contact Mr. Houston. Mr. Houston will in turn discuss the problem with CIA Office of Security officials to get the background-of their liaison with the INS on these matters.

6. Mr. Helms thanked Mr. Katzenbach for his assistance and we departed amid some jovial banter with respect to "The Spy Who Came in From the Cold" about what we expected to happen to him when he started to climb over that "wall" in Berlin.

David E. Murphy
Chief, SR Division


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

![document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

OGC 64-0903

3 April 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director of Security

SUBJECT: Parole Status of Defectors

1.  On 2 April 1964 we had a discussion with the Department of Justice on the status of aliens whose inspection by I&NS is deferred upon arrival at our request and who are then paroled to this Agency. It was the position of the Department of Justice that we were responsible for taking any action necessary to carry out the terms of the parole.

2.  As you know, a basic parole agreement was executed by the Attorney General and the DCI on 10 February 1955. After setting up conditions for authorizing parole in any one case, the agreement states: "After parole of such aliens, the Central Intelligence Agency will assume responsibility for care, supervision and control of a kind and degree it believes consistent with the internal security needs of the United States during continuance of their parole status." This means that the responsible Agency officials must take the minimum action necessary to protect the internal security needs of the United States. The word "minimum" is not necessarily a limitation. It merely means that good judgment must be used as to what kind and degree of action is necessary.

3.  The agreement further provides that upon completion of the parolee's intelligence or operational purposes in the United States or if internal security reasons so require, the alien will be removed from this country through arrangements made by the Agency and, in such case, the Agency will inform the Service in advance of each proposed departure.

Lawrence R. Houston
LAWRENCE R. HOUSTON
General Counsel

CC: DD/P
C/SR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. Information that NOSENKO had defected and was in the United States in February 1964 was known to appropriate agencies and articles had appeared in the public media.

2. NOSENKO was in the United States under an I&NS parole as the responsibility of CIA. The FBI was fully advised of the presence of NOSENKO in the United States and interviewed NOSENKO on several occasions in March 1964. The United States Intelligence Board was also formally advised on 12 February 1964 concerning the defection of NOSENKO. On 14 February 1964, NOSENKO was interviewed by Soviet officials in the presence of I&NS and State Department officials/and NOSENKO reaffirmed his previous request for asylum in the United States.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# SECRET

9 OCT 1969

ER-69-5003/1

Mr. Raymond F. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Farrell:

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

Pursuant to the authority granted under Section 7 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949, as amended, I approve and recommend for your approval the entrance of subject into the United States for permanent residence since his entry is in the interest of the national security and essential to the furtherance of the national intelligence mission. In accordance with previous correspondence in Section 7 cases, it is understood that you will present this matter to the Attorney General for his approval.

Since his defection in February 1964, the subject has provided valuable information to this Agency and he will continue to be of value in the future.

Subject has been investigated abroad and here over a period of five years and has submitted to a technical inter- rogation. The question of bona fides is a continuing one and should any information be developed definitely disproving his bona fides, it shall be made available to your Service and the Attorney General.

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

There are enclosed Forms 1-125 and background data, in duplicate, concerning the subject.

Sincerely,

/s/

Richard Helms
Director

Enclosures:

ORIGINATOR:

/s/ H. J. Osborn 8 October 1969

Howard J. Osborn
Director of Security

Distributions Orig. & 1 - Addressee

1 - Signer's copy

1 - DDCI

1 - EX

1 - EB Div.

1 - CI Staff

1 - DDP

1 - OGC

2 - CS Files

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO (Aka: Yuri NOSSENKO)

30 October 1927 Nicolayev, Ukraine, USSR

Male Divorced Brown Blue/Gray 5ft. 11 inches

Soviet Caucasian --


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

# SECRET

BIOGRAPHIC DATA

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSENKO

AKAS: Yuri NOSSENKO

DOB: 30 October 1927, Nikolayev, Ukraine, USSR

MARITAL STATUS: 1946 - Married and divorced Flavia NOSENKO (nee SHISHKOV).

1948 - Married Agrafina R. NOSENKO (nee TELEGIN); 1949 - separated and 1951 - divorced.

23 June 1953 - Married Ludmila Fullaseevna NOSENKO (nee KOZHEVNIKOVA), January 1961 - separated and 1969 - divorced.

CHILDREN: Daughter - Csana NOSENKO, born 31 August 1954, Moscow; Tamara NOSENKO, born 13 July 1953, Moscow. (Both living in USSR)

EDUCATION: 1942-1945 - Attended various USSR Naval Schools.

1945-1950 - Attended Institute of International Relations, Moscow.

EMPLOYMENT: March 1951-March 1953 - Soviet Naval RU (Naval Intelligence).

March 1953-February 1964 - Officer in KGB (The Committee for State Security).

MILITARY: Lieutenant in USSR Navy while in school and during KB service.

NATIONALITY: Soviet

PRESENT AND PAST 1943-1954 - Member Komsomol, USSR
POLITICAL AFFIL- 1956 - Candidate Communist Party
IATIONS: 1957-1966 - Member Communist Party, USSR

![Stamp text: GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

SP-1687

18 JUL 1969

Mr. Raymond F. Farrell
Commissioner of Immigration
and Naturalization
Department of Justice
Washington, D.C.
Attention: Mr. Frank E. Bartos

Dear Sir:

SUBJECT: Yuriy Ivanovich NOSSENKO

Reference is made to previous correspondence in this case.

Subject continues to be of operational interest to this Agency. Therefore, it is requested subject's parole to this Agency be extended for an additional period of six (6) months beyond the expiration date of his stay of 16 August 1969.

Your cooperation in this matter is very much appreciated.

Sincerely,

SIGNED

Victor R. White
Deputy Director of Security
(Investigations and Operational Support)

OS/AAS/LW:es 16 July 1969

NOT TO BE DISSEMINATED FURTHER OR EXHIBITED TO ANYONE WITHOUT PRIOR PERMISSION OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SUBJECT(Optional)

ROUTING AND RECORD SHET

FROM:

Chief, SR. Division

TO (Officer designation, room number, and
building)

EXTENSION NO.

5777 DATE 13 February-1964

DATE
RECEIVED FORWARDED

OFFICER'S
INITIALS
COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from
to whom. Draw a line across column after each comm

DD/OS

TOP SECRET EYES ONLY

BY HAND

EYES ONLY

FOPM
3-62 610 USE PREVICUS.
EDITIONS
SECRET CONFIDENTIAL INTERNAL
USE ONLY UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# TOP SECRET
EYES ONLY

11 February 1954

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. McGeorge Bundy

SUBJECT: Yuri Ivanovich NOSENKO

1.  This memorandum refers to the State Department release of 10 February on subject case and provides additional background as well as information on his current status.

2.  As a KGB staff officer, NOSENKO is regularly assigned to the Counterintelligence Directorate of the KGB in Moscow but was included in the Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference as part of a cover arrangement which permitted him to carry out intelligence and security functions in Geneva on behalf of the KGB.

3.  NOSENKO also attended various sessions of the Disarmament Conference held in Geneva in 1962. During the course of these sessions NOSENKO sought contact with officials of the U. S. Government, informed these officials that he was affiliated with the Soviet State Security apparatus and volunteered to aid the U. S. Government in detecting Soviet subversive activity directed against the U. S. Government. During the course of his contact with U. S. authorities NOSENKO stated that his cooperation with the U. S. Government originated with his distaste and hatred for the Soviet regime in general, with his desire to obtain revenge for the unjust death of his father, a senior official in the Soviet shipbuilding industry, and with the general admiration of the Americans with whom he had come in contact within the Soviet Union.

4.  In late January 1964, NOSENKO arrived in Geneva, again masquerading as a member of the Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference. Subject secretly notified his CIA contacts in the United States concerning his presence in Geneva and arranged to meet with these contacts. During a series of meetings NOSENKO provided information including documents concerning Soviet State Security activities within the USSR and abroad and a detailed account of the KGB operation against U. S. Professor Barghoorn which NOSENKO said he had personally supervised at the direction of SEMICHASTNIY, the Chairman of the Committee for State Security (KGB).

TOP SECRET
EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# EYES ONLY

- 3 -

5. During these most recent meetings NOSENKO announced his desirs to leave the USSR permanently and seek his future in the West. lis claimed his new work in the KGB (First Deputy Chief of that department charged with the surveillance and recruitment of American visitors to the USSR) was expanding and that he would not be able to visit the West with any frequency. Accordingly, he prepared a request for ***political asylus in the United States. He was taken to Frankfurt, Germany where he is currently undergoing interrogation. Plans are now being made made to remove his to the US.

6. It should be noted that CIA contact with S has not been extensive and that we will require additional thorough interrogation to establisia Subject's bona fides. It should also be noted that MOSENXO's duties were not concerned with substantive aspects of the Disarmament Conference, and he therefore is not expected to be able to shed much, if any, light on that area of our interest.

7. The possibility that XOSENKO's defection was designed to wreck the conference was most carefully considered. The decision to accept his was taken on thở conviction that the Soviets would not have chosea such a vulnerable agent (staff officer of the X53) for this kind of soΥΘ.

CSR/DEN/jif 0 11 Feb 64
Distribution:
Orig - Adse
2 cc - SR/CI/K-Downey
1 cc - C/CI
1 cc - CSR
Tec - DD/OS

Thomas i. Zaramessines
Acting Deputy Director
for Plans

# TOP SECRET
# EVES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# EYES ONLY

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

OFFICE OF DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE

12 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: United States Intelligence Board Members

SUBJECT: Yuzi Ivanovich NOSENKO

1. This memorandum refers to the State Department release of 10 February on subject case and provides additional background as well as information on his current status.

2. As a KGB staff officer, NOSENKO is regularly assigned to the Counterintelligence Directorate of the KGB in Moscow but was included in the Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference as part of a cover arrangement which permitted him to carry out intelligence and security functions in Geneva on behalf of the KGB.

3. NOSENKO also attended various sessions of the Disarmament Conference held in Geneva in 1962. During the course of these sessions, NOSENKO sought contact with officials of the U. S. Government, informed these officials that he was affiliated with the Soviet State Security apparatus and volunteered to aid the U. S. Government in detecting Soviet subversive activity directed against the U. S. Government. During the course of his contact with U. S. authorities, NOSENKO stated that his cooperation with the U. S. Government originated with his distaste and hatred for the Soviet regime in general, with his desire to obtain revenge for the unjust death of his father, a senior official in the Soviet shipbuilding industry, and with the general admiration of the Americans with whom he had come in contact within the Soviet Union.

4. In late January 1964, NOSENKO arrived in Geneva, again masquerading as a member of the Soviet delegation to the Disarmament Conference. Subject secretly notified his CIA contacts in the United States concerning his presence in Geneva and arranged to meet with these contacts. During a series of meetings NOSENKO provided information including documents concerning Soviet State Security activities within the USSR and abroad and a detailed account.

EYES ONLY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

of the KGB operation against U. S. Professor Barzhoorn
which NOSENKO said he had personally supervised at the
direction of SEMICHASTAIY, the Chairman of the Conaittes
for State Security: (KGB).

5. During these most recent seatings NOSENKO announced
   his desire to leave the USSR permanently and seek his future
   in the dest. He claimed his new work in the KGB (First
   Deputy Chief of that department charged with the surveillance
   and recruitment of American visitors to the USSR) was ax-
   paading and that he would not be able to visit the Best
   with any frequency. Accordingly, he prepared a request for
   political asylum in the United States. He was taken to
   Frankfurt, Germany where he is currently undergoing interro-
   gation. Plans are now being made to remove him to the U. S

6. It should be noted that CIA contact with Subject
   has not been extensive and that we will require additional
   *thorough interrogation to establish Subject's bona fides.
   It should also be noted that NOSENKO's duties ware not con-
   carned with substantive aspects of the Disarmament Conference,
   and he therefore is not expected to be able to shed much, if
   any, light on that area of our interest.

7. The possibility that NOSENXO's defection was de-
   signed to wreck the conference was most carefully considered.
   The decision to accept biz was taken on the conviction that.
   the Sovists would not have chosen such a vulnerable agent™
   (staff officer of the KGB) for this kind of move.

Marshall S. Cartor
Lieutenant General, USA
Deputy Director


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

# Nosenko's Account Disputes Charge by Soviet

BY TAD SZULC
Special to The New York Times

WASHINGTON, Feb. 17 - Yuri L. Nosenko told a Soviet Embassy official at their confrontation here last Friday that he left Switzerland on the way to the United States 28-hours before his defection was reported by the Russians to the Swiss authorities.

This statement by the former staff officer of the Soviet Committee of State Security, the secret police, appeared to amount to a denial of the Soviet charge that the Swiss authorities had been negligent in preventing his defection.

Mr. Nosenko, who quit as a member of the Soviet delegation to the Geneva disarmament conference Feb. 4, was allowed to meet with a Soviet diplomat here in the presence of United States officials.

The State Department announced at the time that the confrontation was taking place in Washington at the request of the Soviet Embassy, but no other details were made public. The department said that immigration and Naturalization

Defection Preceded Report to Swiss Police Apparently; Ruling Out Negligence

Mr. Nosenko.

Swiss diplomat had been permitted to talk separately with

Information made available today has thrown new light on the defection.

The Soviet delegation in Geneva, it was reported, told the Swiss police at 5 P.M. Feb. 5 that Mr. Nosenko was missing. But Mr. Nosenko's statements in the presence of the Soviet Embassy official are said to have shown that his actual defection took place at 1 P.M. the preceding day.

The Soviet delegation announced Mr. Nosenko's disappearance Feb. 5.

The meeting between Mr. Nosenko and the Soviet Embassy official took place in the headquarters of the Washington field office of the Immigration and Naturalization

Service. Officials of the State Department, the Central Intelligence Agency and the Immigration and Naturalization Service were also present.

Mr. Nosenko was described as having been completely relaxed during the interview.

He is understood to have told the Soviet diplomat during their businesslike conference that he defected of his own volition without any outside pressures.

His statements, it was reported, did not allay Soviet resentment against Swiss authorities. Diplomatic reports reaching the State Department said that Soviet diplomats in foreign capitals continued to register complaints about alleged negligence after Mr. Nosenko's conference with the Soviet diplomat.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

# U.S. Lets Swiss
And Red Envoys
Talk to Defector

## Nosenko Again
Voices Desire
For Asylum
-By-Chalmers M Roberts

Soviet secret police defector Yuri I Nosenko is in the United States where he was interviewed yesterday by officials of both the Russian and Swiss Embassies.

The State Department said each interview lasted less than an hour and that a Department official was present each time. Nosenko reaffirmed his earlier request for aslyum in the United States and it will be granted.

State Department spokesman Richard. I. Phillips, in giving out this information, declined to say where the interviews took place or to give any details Earlier he had said it was possible that newsmen here will be allowed to talk with Nosenko.

## Soviet Kicks up Euss

These developments came as the Soviet Union kicked up a diplomatic fuss over the disappearance of Nosenko on Feb. 4, from Geneva, where he had been assigned as an "expert" in the Soviet delegation at the 17-nation disarmament conference. Philipps said he was "on temporary duty from KGB. (secret police) headquarters in Moscow."

Up to yesterday Moscow had been directing its public diplomatic wrath at the Swiss, charging them with loose security. The provision for a Swiss diplomat to interview Nosenko was to assure the Swiss that the United States had taken part in no illegal act on their soil.

The Swiss. already had strongly rejected the Soviet charges.

On Wednesday, Phillips re- See DEFECTOR, A5, Col. 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# See Defector

ported yesterday, a Soviet called American Ambassa.
Embassy messenger brought a dor Foy Kooler and charged
message to the State Depart the United States with im-
ment asking for information permissible acts in the case
“as to the manner in which He stopped short of a Sidnap-

Serious Effects Hinted

Nosenko presented him ing charges however Kohler
self to the U.S. authorities replied that on behalf of the
and requested an opportunity United States he rejected any
to interview him The De implication of American wrong
partment agreed to the inter doing
view with American officials
present and said Nosenko
also was agreeable. A reply In Geneva Soviet officials,
about the defection also was including Tsarapkin himself
given to the Soviet Embassy

So on Wednesday in Gen- privately spread to the press
eva, Soviet disarmament dele hints of serious consequences
gate Semyon Tsarapkin Soon there were rumors that
gave newsmen and angry state: Moscow would pull outils dele
ment aimed at the Swiss and gation, but up to last night no
charging provocative activi such threats had actually been
by Sunspecified Western
agents Up-to then Tsarapkin made, according to word reac
had been saying both private ing. Washington
ly and publicly that the No In-public Tsarapkin said only
senkor delection would not af "I have nothing to say Lam
fect the disarmament talks not in the position to tell you
Yesterday the Soviets stepped
up their protest-in-two places, anything
Moscow and Geneva
At some so far unspecified
In Moscow Soviet Foreign dates Nosenko, who had ap
Minister Andre Gromy ko parently crossed from Switzer
land to France, was flown to
the United States. Its as
sumed hes in the hands of
the Central Intelligence Agen
cy the normal course for de
fectors

Officials were yesterday
were knocking down the idea
that he was a particularly big
fish that he new any atomic
secrets or that he knew any
thing About Soviet disarma-
ment Strategy Rather, they there had been no word up to
said, he was a KGR staff offi last night of the defection on
cera Security man operating
as is the Soviet practice, in the Soviet radio or in the
a light compartment That press though word of mouth
would mean would have reports had spread through
useful and perhaps important the capital
knowledge of part of the KGB It was felt here that Moscow
out probably not much more. might have stepped rup. its
Believed Genuine protest after--Tsarapkin, had
publicly downgraded the case
in. Geneva: At any rate U.S.

It is assumed here that the disarmament negotiator Wil
36-year-old Nosenko is a gen- liam C. Foster and Tsarapkin
uine defector though the pos- held another business session
sibility of his being a double in Geneva yesterday at which
agent has not been overlook they said the case was not dis
ed. It also is felt here that cussed.
the Soviet protest was no It also was noted here that
stronger than could be ex- the Soviet Communist Party
pected. The request for an Central Committee has been
interview rare but not. un- meeting in Moscow all this
precedented was granted, in week. But whether the No
hopes of reciprocal treatment senko case was discussed was
should the occasion arise. not known
Moscow said

![photo of folie handwritten on the top right]

![photo of WASIT Pos handwritten on the bottom right]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23



-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

12 May 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Acting Chief, Support Branch

FROM Chief, Operational Support Division

SUBJECT WAEFOXTROT
#262622

This memorandumis primarily for the record and will record the essence of a meeting held on the morning of 12 May 1964, at which the following were present: Messrs. Charles Kane, Jack Bauman, OS; Dr. Charles Bohrer, Medical Staff; Messrs. Bagley, Karpovich (2), McMahon and David Murphy, SR Division.

2. The essence of this meeting was furnished to the Acting Chief, Support Branch on 12 May 1964, as follows:

Effective immediately or as soon as practicable, the following procedures.will apply with regard to the handling of the Subject:

(1) Subject will receive a regular diet with modest regulated portions. He is to have no dessert or "trimmings," but may have the necessary silverware with which to eat properly. (CAUTION--Extreme care should be exercised with regard to controlling the silverware, and it was suggested that at least two of the guards be required to count the silverware in and out; that.. the silverware be placed on the tray in a manner where it could be observed before the guards enter the room, etc.)

(2) Arrangements are to be made for the installation of adequate air-conditioning equipment to insure that a comfortable temperature is maintained. (It is under- stood that there is quite a bit of equipment available through Logistics channels.)

(3) Subject is to receive a bath; change of underwear; change of uniform; and a change of linen for his bed.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

(4) Subject is to receive a haircut, the shorter the better.

(5); Subject is to receive one cigarette on 12 May 1964.

(NOTE--These changes with regard to the bath, haircut, cigarette are not to be considered as something to be done on a regular schedule. We will await specific instructions from SR Division as to when these items are to be accomplished in the future.)

(6) Effective immediately, Dr. Bohrer will visit the Subject only on Tuesday each week.

(7) In addition to the above, it must be emphasized that our attitude toward the Subject will remain precisely the same, and our security procedures, including searches, will continue to be at maximum control.

3. It was further ascertained that we will have custody of the Subject until at least July. It was suggested that perhaps we may wish to explore some modifications in the assignment of personnel or schedule of assignments. In addition, the Acting Chief, Support Branch has suggested that immediate consideration be given to devising necessary procedures to be followed in the event of an emergency involving loss of control of the Subject. This should be discussed immediately with the responsible DFO supervisors and specific procedures devised, and all guards properly informed as to their responsibilities in this matter.

![signature of Jack M. Bauman]

Jack M. Bauman

Bauman/ewd(5-12-64)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26



---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)