# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## SECRET

29 August 1968

SUBJECT: SEITZ, Charles

Charles SEITZ is identified as a pilot who was employed by the FLOURNOY Flying Service at the same time as Leslie Norman BRADLEY. It is reported that SEITZ stated that when BRADLEY learned of the assassination (President KENNEDY), he decided he had to go to Miami immediately.

A check of OS records revealed the following information on one Charles J. SEITZ who is currently being considered for a Proprietary Approval by DOD for Project WUBETON. He is to be used as a flight instructor on an unwitting basis for an Agency proprietary entity in Newton, Kansas. The results of investigation are not complete and clearance has not yet been granted.

Charles J. SEITZ was born 31 January 1943 at Steele City, Nebraska and resides at 844 San Pablo, Wichita, Kansas. He is currently a test pilot with Cessna Aircraft Company, Wichita, Kanses. From 1963 to June 1966 Subject was in the U. S. Army. He was a flight mechanic and had tours in Vietnam and Thailand.

Charles's father, Charles William SEITZ, was born 21 December 1917 at Hollenberg, Kansas and currently resides at 2111 South Terrace, Wichita, Kansas 67218.

Inquiry was made of DOD if either Charles J. or his father Charles William SEITZ, had ever been employed by the Jack R. FLOURNOY Flying Service and it was determined that both Charles J. SEITZ and his father were employed by FLOURNOY in 1962-1963. The Jack R. FLOURNOY Flying Service went out of business in 1964 and the owner, Jack R. FLOURNOY, is currently employed as a salesman.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)