# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

## JMWAVE COVER FACILITY

A. NAME : Ace Marine Survey, Inc.

OFFICE ADDRESS : Room 214, 2525 S.W. 3rd Street, Miami, Florida

MAILING ADDRESS : P. O. Box 1337, Main Post Office, Miami, Florida

LOCATION : Office of Attorney Norman S. Pallot

B. TYPE OF FACILITY: This is a Florida Corporation established by and under the control of JMWAVE and certified to do business in Florida. Ace Marine Survey, Inc. was formerly known as Ace Cartography Company, a corporation which had been certified to do business in Florida on 11 July 1962. This Corporation was amended on 4 November 1966 to its new name, Ace Marine Survey, Inc.

The President of the Corporation is Alfred J. Moran of New Orleans, Louisiana. Mr. Moran is a very prominent businessman in the New Orleans area. He is head of Kalvar and has investments in a variety of businesses which include many oil interests. He is known to Headquarters representatives particularly in Logistics.

C. OSTENSIBLE BUSINESS: Ace Marine Survey, Inc., is engaged primarily in marine research including the study of marine life and testing of marine equipment. However, its general provisions permit it to perform almost any corporate function.

D. USE : JMWAVE use of the Corporation is to provide cover for a maritime vessel, the M/V SONORA. The Corporation provides status cover and payrolling of the agents assigned to the M/V SONORA and the safe area or berthing site from which the vessel operates in the performance of its ostensible business.

E. FUNDING : Method - This account is funded through the [Bank and Hall covert account at the First National Bank of Miami] by the following method: A check in the total amount of the deposits is drawn on this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit ticket together with the appropriate deposit slips for the various corporations is then turned over to a teller, where it is combined with all other transactions which are processed by that particular teller on the given business day. Since the number of transactions handled by a given teller may go as high as 250 to 300 there is slight chance of the deposits being attributed to the particular credit ticket which accompanied these deposits.

Overt Attribution or Source - [Offshore Navigation Company, 3503 Fern Street, New Orleans, Louisiana]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

F. TAX STATUS: This is a profit-making corporation and has met Federal and State requirements as follows:

1) Corporation Federal Income Tax Returns.

2) Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes.

3) Florida State Unemployment Tax.

4) Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return.

5) Florida Intangible Property Tax Return.

G. AGENT IDENTIFICATION: The Corporation was providing status cover and payrolling for 10 Cubans as of 31 January 1967.

II. ASSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY:

1. Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967: This cover company should be affected little by a flap. However, because of the berthing location within largely tourist or recreation areas, its commercial activity has been noted.

2. Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967: A successor to Ace Cartography Company, Ace Marine Survey, Inc., is currently used in connection with the leasing of a waterfront berthing site for the berthing of M/V SONORA, which is registered under this firm. The firm also provides cover and serves as well as the vehicle for payrolling the agent crew.

Ace Marine Survey, Inc., is engaged in the field of marine research, including the study of marine life as well as the testing of marine equipment.

In view of the current limited use of this cover, the likelihood of exposure is considerably reduced. However, if such an exposure did occur, it is felt that the damage to either WOFACT or the officers of Ace Marine Survey, Inc., would be of no great import. The major likely "injury" that would be sustained would be the denial of further use of the berthing site and the need for re-naming/re-registering the M/V SONORA.

In order to add depth and lend further substance to the cover story, the officers of a legitimate firm, [Offshore Navigation Company, New Orleans, Louisiana, which is engaged in marine research and off-shore oil exploration activities, have agreed to backstop the activities of Ace Marine Survey, Inc. and to recognize the latter firm as a client.

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

JMWAVE COVER FACILITY

: Ceres Enterprises, Inc.

ADDRESS : Suite 1409 Biscayne Building, 19 West Flagler Street, Miami, Florida 33101

ADDRESS : P. O. Box 5045, Main Post Office, Miami, Fla. 33101

FACILITY: Office of Attorneys George E. Brown and Thomas B. Duff

This corporation was established in Florida and certified to do business on 10 March 1964. It was established by and is under the control of JMWAVE.

The President of this corporation is Mr. Richard W. Freeman, who is the retired Chairman of the Board of Delta Airlines. He is also the principal owner of the Coca-Cola Bottling Company in New Orleans. In addition he has many other varied interests including investments in oil ventures. He is extremely prominent in the New Orleans civic and social structure.

BUSINESS: This corporation was established ostensibly to maintain and operate boats for all types of marine research.

: This corporation provided cover for maritime vessels, the M/V BARB and the M/V JADE, and served as the status and payroll mechanism for the agents employed by this corporation.

: Method - This account is funded through the Bank and Hall covert account at The First National Bank of Miami by the following method: A check in the total amount of the deposits is drawn on this account. A credit ticket is obtained by our cleared contact from the cash vault. This credit ticket together with the appropriate deposit slips for the various corporations is then turned over to a teller, where it is combined with all other transactions which are processed by that particular teller on the given business day. Since the number of transactions handled by a given teller may go as high as 250 to 300 there is slight chance of the deposits being attributed to the particular credit ticket which accompanied these deposits.

Overt Attribution or Source - Peterman & Peterman Associates, P. O. Box 8103, Main Post Office, Chicago, Illinois


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

TAX STATUS: This is a corporation for profit. It has met federal and state tax requirements as follows:

1.  Corporation Federal Income Tax Return
2.  Federal Withholding and Unemployment Taxes
3.  Florida State Unemployment Taxes
4.  Florida Corporation Report and Tax Return
5.  Florida Intangible Property Tax Return

AGENT IDENTIFICATION: None at this time.

ASSESSMENT OF VULNERABILITY:

1.  Maritime Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - The cover mechanism established by the Ceres Enterprises, Inc. was very secure during the period of its operation and remained so until the loss of one of its agents who was captured in Cuba. This made it necessary to terminate the activities of this corporation and transfer its activities to another entity. This was accomplished without any unusual events or actual public exposure. If any should occur at this late date, the damage would be minimal.

2.  Cover Branch Assessment dated 6 March 1967 - This corporation is currently inactive and will become legally dormant after three years. It was placed in this status due to an operational flap which could have exposed the corporation. The last active tax return was filed at the tax year ending March 31, 1966. An additional tax return will be filed for the past tax year which will indicate no financial transactions.

Its assets and activities were transferred to other JMWAVE entities. This corporation was established to provide cover for a Maritime Branch vessel and status and payroll cover for the agents assigned to it. The corporation is inactive and will be allowed to remain so. It was placed in this status due to a flap wherein an agent was captured in Cuba who had knowledge of this vessel and its ownership. There was no public exposure in the Miami area. However, because of the past incident the corporation should not be used in the future under its current name. While in use the corporation served very satisfactorily for the purpose for which it was established.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)