# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MEMORANDUM FOR: J. D.-Lavery, OGG

Via: A. Addona, DDO/PICG

Subject: Classification of EX 3600

Re your request for "a couple sentences of factual data as to why this document is classified", here they are:

1. Ex post facto, since I was not associated with Operation MHCHAOS during its existence, I can only offer the following reasonable surmise. As we now know, during its tenure MHCHAOS was one of the most sensitive operations conducted under DDP aegis, repeatedly sanctioned (in writing) by the DCI. The activity was deemed so sensitive that it was controlled by/through extremely restricted handling channels. I think it follows logically, at least in my view, that any document produced by MHCHAOS, whether a formal or informal one, would have been classified at least SECRET.

2. Does the information in this document warrant classification today. I think it does, and I believe the current classification of CONFIDENTIAL is proper. Reading

FORM 101 USE PREVIOUS
5-75 EDITIONS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MEMORANDUM FOR:

Pgs. 2 through 12 carefully, it is readily apparent that some of the information on some of these pages was seemingly acquired from/through sensitive sources/methods. Also these pages contain frequent mention of FBI information concerning many of the Peace Movement groups/organizations cited; FBI reports received by MHCHAOS were invariably classified, for the most part CONFIDENTIAL.

3. What should be the proper FOIA exemption for EX 3600; in my view, (b)(3).

P. Haefner

C/SCB/IP

7 Apr 77

Date

FORM 101 USE PREVIOUS
5-75 EDITIONS


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)