# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

![Image of classified message header]

## SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : PARIS

ACTION: SAS 8 (SAS NOTIFIED AND COPY SLOTTED AT 1735 19 JUN DO)

INFO : DDP, CI, CI/OPS, CI/OA, FI, RI/AN, WE 4, WI 7, S/C. 2

![Return to CIA background use only do not reproduce wording]

## SECRET I

7727Z

ING3271

KPRITY DIR INFO PRITY MAOR SJAN WAVE ROUTINE BRUS CITE PARI 9068

TYPIC

REF A PARI 9008 (IN 61964)* 19 JUN 1963

B PARI 9049 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS) (IN 63094)

1. RAY CONTACTED BY JERVAY (UNDER IDEN A ALIAS) 17 AND 18 JUNE. IN ADDITION CONTACTS REPORTED PARA ONE PARI 8824 RAY HAS

ALSO BEEN IN CONTACT [UNRUMBLE 6, UNPAPIST], AND AT LEAST ONE CONTACT WITH AMSPORT 1. RAY DESIGNATED [UNRUMBLE 6 AS HIS CONTACT MAN PARI. JERVAY NOT INTRODUCED BUT WILL CONTACT SHORTLY. STA FEELS THIS IS GOOD MOVE SINCE [UNRUMBLE 6 APPEARS BE GOOD MAN AND HAS APPROACHED EMS IN PAST SEPARATELY FROM [UNRUMBLE 2 VITH SONE INTERESTING PLANS. STA DID NOT APPROACH HIM DIRECTLY IN PAST BECAUSE DID NOT WANT TO DISTURB RELATIONSHIP WITH [UNRUMBLE 2.

[UNRUMBLE 2 VILL NEVERTHELESS, BE VITTING [UNRUMBLE 6 CURRENT RELATIONSHIP. RAY WAS DRIVEN AIRPORT BY ALBERTO BREZ VITH VEGE RAT SPENT MUCH TIME AND WHO SEENS BE CLOSEST TO RAY AMONG HIS CONTACTS PARIS.

CABRERA DID NOT PHONE OR COND PARIS OVER. CONTINUE MONITOR DEVELOPMENTS THROUGH [UNRUMBLE 6.

![Secret wording excluding from automatic downgrading and declassification. Reproduction by other than the issuing office is prohibited wording]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

## SECRET IN 632 PAGE 2

RAY BELIEVES CABRERA WILL WORK ON ARCOS BUT SAYS MAN WHO COULD REALLY DO THE JOB IS ARCOS UNCLE WHO IN PUERTO RICO AND KNOWN TO RAY. HE COULD NOT REMEMBER NAME OR EXACT RELATIONSHIP

1 PLANS CONTACT HIM ON RETURN AND GROOM HIM FOR TASK. RAY ASKED BE INFORMED WHEN ARCOS RETURNS BRUS.

4. KUBARK STAFFER (IDEN B) OF CONGRESS OF CULTURAL FREEDOM MET RAY AT LEAST TWICE. EXCELLENT RAPPORT. HE ARRANGED RAY'S PRESS INTERVIEW WITH GUILLON DE MOULINS (INCORRECTLY REPORTED IN PARA FIVE PARI 8947) OF LE MONDE. ALSO ARRANGED DINNER 03 JUNE. WAS NONCOMMITAL BUT ENCOURAGING ABOUT JOB POSSIBILITY FOR FRANQUI SHOULD HE DEFECT.

5. RAY SEEMS TO BE CONFIDENT FRANQUI WILL JOIN HIS CAMP IN NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE AND RELYING ON CABRERA TO CONTINUE WORKING ON HIM. STA NOT SO CONVINCED AND PLANS PROCEED ALONG LINES DIR 48158 AND PARI 9067 (NOT SENT SJAN BRUS).

6. POSSIBLE REFERENCE TO GUEDE TALK WITH FRANQUI IS IN 8 JUNE

UNSOX. AMB GRAMATGES MENTIONS TO SINOBAS THAT MARIO (PRESUMADLY THIRD SECY MARIO GRACIA VARELA) CALLED FROM THE EXHIBITION SAYING THAT SOME ANTI-CASTRO ELEMENTS WERE ABOUT AND THAT FRANQUI ASKED FOR SONE MORE PEOPLE FROM THE EMBASSY TO BE AROUND THE EXHIBITION. ALSO 12 VINE UNSIERRA (UNSNAFU 12 COMMENTS TO UNSNAFU 16 THAT SOME "GUSANOS" VERE AT THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EXHIBITION AND THE FRENCH POLICE VENT BY CUBAN EMB TO ASK IF THEY SHOULD GUARD THE EXHIBIT. HOWEVER THIS LATTER PROBABLY NOT REFERENCE TO GUEDE. OTHER THAN THIS STA HAS NO INDICATION FRANQUI HAS TALKED ABOUT APPROACH TO HIM

7. RAY FEELS TRIP EUROPE WAS VERY PROFITABLE. DESPITE FACT HE HAS NO FIRM COMMITMENT FROM FRANQUI, CABRERA OR ARCOS HE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 63271 PAGE 3

SEEMS CONFIDENT THEY WILL JOIN HIM EVENTUALLY. HE FEELS HE HAS
TIGHTENED UP AND INSPIRED HIS "ORGANIZATION" PARIS. SAYS HAS
GAINED OMPRESSION FROM TALKS WITH CUBANS HERE THAT DISILLUSION-
MENT AMONG CUBAN EMBASSIES AND OFFICIALS INSIDE CUBA HAS GROWN
CONSIDERABLY. RAY CONVINCED IT POSSIBLE TO OVERTHROW CASTRO
CLEANLY AND SIMPLY. WANTS DEVOTE OWN APPARATUS TO IDENTIFYING
DISAFFECTED ELEMENTS IN CUBA AND BUILDING UP SUPPLY APPARATUS IN
AND OUTSIDE CUBA TO SERVE THEM.

8. RAY ASKED FOR FOLLI

A. UP TO DATE LIST OF PERSONNEL AND ADDRESS OF ALL CUBAN
EMBASSIES IN EUROPE TO BE PASSED HIM IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 IN
PARIS. HE WANTS BEGIN MAILING PROPAGANDA AND LETTERS TO STIMU-
LATE FURTHER DISAFFECTION PERSONNEL.

B. TRAINING OF HIMSELF IN SJAN AND UNRUMBLE 6 PARI IN
IDENTICAL SV SYSTEM WHICH THEY CAN USE FOR CORRESPONDENCE BETWEEN
SJAN AND PARI AND ALSO INTO CUBA. STA FELT BOTH THESE IDEAS
SHOULD BE ENCOURAGED AND RAY WAS TOLD COULD BE DONE. VOULD
APPRECIATE HOS PROVISION OF ITEM A AND DESIGNATION OF SW SYSTEM.

C. RAY ALSO ASKED WE LINE UP JOB FOR CABRERA AS EUROPE REP
SOME PAPER AS DISCUSSED WITH NAUMAN PER PARI 6947. VOULD APPRZ-
CIATE HOS FOLLOWUP ON THIS.

9. FEEL ONE SOLID ACCOMPLISHMENT OF RAY'S TRIP VAS RE-ES-
   TABLISHMENT DE VORKING RELATION VETH RAY. BELIEVE HE HER IT OFF
   VELL VITH NAUMAN GROVERY AND JERVAY AND GAINED CONFIDENCE DUR
   SUPPORT WHICH MAY ALLEVIATE SOMEWHAT SOME PAST PROBLEHS KUBARK
   RELATIONSHIP.

16. INDEX. C/8 COMMENT: RAY DEPARTING PARI AF 015 ARRIVING NY 1300 HOURS 18

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)