# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

IINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONL

# INTERVIEW REPORT

NAME OF SUBJECT

BUSTOS-VIDELA, Charlotte

FILE NO.

007-667

REASON FOR INTERVIEW

Retirement: CIA

30 Dec 1977

PERMANENT ADDRESS

PO Box 3030

FALLS CHURCH, VA 22043

TEMPORARY ADDRESS

Home Tee Phone 281-2258

PRESENT TITLE. GRADE AND DIVISION

LA

DETAILS OF CONTEMPLATED FOREIGN TRAVEL

GS-14

Europe (dates not firm)

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

BADGES. PASSES, KEYS AND CREDENTIALS

CLEARANCES

Commo- 51

COVER

99 STATE (Retirement under Cover on State)

1.  ALL PHASES OF SECURITY WITH RESPECT TO. SUBJECT'S RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ORGANIZATION WERE FULLY AND COMPLETELY DISCUSSED.

2.  SUBJECT WAS ADVISED THAT ALL INFORMATION RECEIVED AND COMPILED BY THE AGENCY IS OFFICIAL DATA. AND IS THE PROPERTY OF THE U. S. GOVERNMENT AND THAT NO OFFICER OR EMPLOYEE HAS ANY PROPERTY RIGHT IN SUCH INFORMATION.

3.  SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT THE SECURITY REGULATIONS AND THE SECRECY AGREEMENT APPLY. NOT ONLY TO INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION: BUT, ALSO TO ANY STATISTICAL, ORGANIZATIONAL. OPERATIONAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION OF WHICH HE IS COGNIZANT.

4.  SUBJECT WAS INSTRUCTED THAT INFORMATION PERTAINING TO INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS. SOURCES AND METHODS PECULIAR TO THE AGENCY MAY NOT BE DIVULGED TO PERSONS IN OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES, EVEN THOUGH SUCH PERSONS ARE FULLY SECU-RITY CLEARED WITHIN THEIR OWN DEPARTMENTS.

5.  SUBJECT WAS INFORMED THAT SHOULD ANY QUESTION ARISE ON SECURITY MATTERS HE MAY COMMUNICATE WITH THE AGENCY FOR ADVICE AND GUIDANCE.

6.  GENERAL: (Comments, criticisms or suggestions and knowledge of any incidents or activities of persons which seemed to have a security significance.)

DATE

30 December 1977

/s/ Thomas A. Gaines

SIGNATURE OF INTERVIEWER

FORM 1099 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

ADMINISTRATIVE - INTERNAL USE ONLY


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)