# 104-10183-10267

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: J. GEGGICH

ACTION: WH7

INFO: DDP, WH/IONS, CI/OPS/CIS, FI, WH

SECRET 342223Z

DIR CITE TEGU 5633

DYBOUR PERUMEN ASHUG

FEF: TEGU 5625 *(66562)*

FOLLOWING FROM LANGOSCH

1. PESVING CHIEF AND LANGOSCH HAD PRIVATE MEET MORNING 4 SEPT WITH CHIEF OF STATE CCL. OSWALDO LOPEZ LANGOSCH BRIEFED ON DGI OPS AND ORGANIZATION, INCLUDING INFO ON [MARIO SOSA N. ARRO], [MAGLIO MORENO ESPINAL] [LUIS BANECAS] AND [ANTONIO FERNANDEZ IZA HIRLE] WHO USES HONDURAN DOCS IN NAME [MIGUEL MANCIA MADRID] ALSO FURNISHED RECENT [TRAVEL LISTS] AND COPY OF DGI [RECUIREMENTS ON 24]

2. [LOPEZ] EXHIBITED KEAN INTEREST, REVIEWED ALL NAMES, SAID KNEW SOME PERSONALLY INCLUDING [SOSA], PROTISED PROVIDE ALL POSSIBLE INFO ON ALL [HONDURANS] THROUGH PESVING CHIEF AND EXPRESSED VILLINGIESS LEND FULL COOPERATION. SAID GOVT HAS ABOUT 25 COMITES UNDER ARREST AND HAS HAD TO RELEASE OTHERS FOR LACK OF EV CENCE BUT

SECRET

11/BR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIND MESS GE

# SECRET 06

CAPABLE OF MAKING ARKES13 OF PEOPLE LIE IF THEY ENTER COUNTY AND VILLING NAKE THER AVAILABLE TO COOKE. SEVER LOPEZ DECKIFO LACK OF SECURITY AND COMPETENCE IN HIS GOVT STATING:

A. HE MUST KEEP MATERIAL FURNISHED IN PERSONAL POSSESSION OR OWN HOKE BECAUSE OFFICE IS NOT SECURE.

B. MOST PEOPLE IN GOVT INCLUDING THOSE IN INTEL AND POLICE. ARE NOT SECURE EITHER BECAUSE SUSCEPTIBLE TO BRIEFS OR NOT ABLE SAFEGUARD ANY CONFIDENCES.

C. NOBODY IN GOVT IS TRAINED TO COPE WITH DGI OPS.

D. GENERALLY GOVT PERSONNEL FAR LESS ASTUTE THAN SOSA AND OTHER COMMIES.

3. LOPEZ MENTIONED FELIX OYUELA, CHIEF ANY INVESTIGATOR, AS ONLY TRUSTED AND REASONABLY COMPETENT PERSON BUT ADUED GYUELA TOO BURDENED WITH OTHER DUTIES. THEREFORE, SLEX SUITABLE CANDIDATE WHOM LEWILL WILL PROPOSE TO PESCING CHIEF SO SUCH PERSOO COULD BE TRAINED AND DEVOTE TIME TO SUBVERSIVE AND ESPICIAGE MATTERS.

SECRET

*   CONCERNED LANECTOR ERITIES CO DEI CON AND

SECRET

7189


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)