# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SEPARATE COVER ATTACHMENT TO: UFG-W-642 dated 17 A00. 1901

SUBJECT: Cover for Eubject

1. Fursuant to your requirement for status cover for Subject, the following devised cover has been developed. Subject will be employed as of 1 November 1981, by (Roberts Electronic and Engineering Servico), a devised cover firm engaged in providing consulting services in the field of electronics and electrical instruments. His immediate position will be that of consultant assigned to the Southeastern part of the United States. This cover was selected in view of Subject's past employment where he represented various electrical suppliers.

2. Roberts Electronic and Engineering Service is located at (4010 Grengyle Avenue, Baltimore 15, Maryland) telephone (Rogers 4-6770.) This is a fully backstopped cover device which will list Subject as one of its employees thereby furnishing a credit and employment reference for him. His payments will be made to him by bank transfer as in the past.

3. It should be pointed out to Subject that he will receive a U.8. Treasury form 1099 at the end of each taxable year, showing Roberts as his source of income. Therefore, it is incumbent on Subject to file an overt tax return listing himself as an inde- pendent contractor with (Roberts), thereby explaining why taxes were not withheld.

4. You are requested to advise Headquarters when this cover arrangement is no longer needed, so that proper backstopping can be effected.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)