2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

11 May 1960
File K-4849

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, FE

ATTENTION : Mr. (Thomas A. Olsen)J03

SUBJECT : VITAIE, Guy, mi
Establishment of Official Cover Backstop

REFERENCE : Request for Domestic Cover 2 May 1960

1. In compliance with above reference, official cover back- stopping which utilizes the U. S. Arm Element, Joint Operations Group has been established for the above-named individual. All information concerning this cover arrangement is available in the Official Cover and Liaison Section, CCD.

2. It is requested that OCL/CCD be notified when this cover arrangement is no longer required. Any changes in the Subject's Headquarters status should be coordinated with this office for the determination of need for continued documentation and cover.

3. Subject has been issued Unit ID Card No. 1205 for domestic use only. In accordance with arrangements made with Offices of Security and Personnel, the above documentation will be picked up by a CPB representative for any individual making a PCS move from Headquarters or an overseas TDY trip. In the case of the PCS traveler, CPB will return this documentation to OCL/CCD for disposition. For the TDY traveler, this documentation will be retained by CPB and returned to the TDY traveler upon completion of the trip. In the event of a resignation from the Agency, OCL/CCD will obtain the documentation from the employee at the time of the employee's debriefing conference.

/S/ PAUL P. STEWART

JOSEPH M. ADAMS
Chief, Official Cover & Liaison, CCD

cc: Personnel Security Division,
Office of Security

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)