# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CAS NR 3 UUTINE 3119322

SECRET C

FR ASHCRAFT DY CIESTELSAT (SUPPORT) - CITE A-2965

A 116921 2

CASE 16633 EPT 16633. WE FORWARD THE FOLLOWING FROM NEW YORK:

1. THE INTERESTE FI RPT FI AREA DIVISIO WELCOMED YOUR DETAILED INVENTORY OF THE VERSON RPT VERSON MATERIAL. HAVANA FI RPT FI STATION HAS ADVISED THAT VERSON WAS IN TOUCH VIDEAMERICAN EMBASSY IN PAST AND IS OF OPINION THAT IN PORTANT PART OF VERSON PATERIAL IS IN CIA POSSESSION. THIS LAST PROBABILITY - SUPPORTED BY YOUR DESCRIPTION AND OPINIONS - HAS PRACTICALLY ELI INATED DESIRE TO SECURE THE FOLDERS. THE NEED FOR INVOLVING CUSTONS IN A SERIES OF DELIVERIES AND VERSON'S DESIRE TO HAVE THE FOLDERS RLTURNED ARE FURTHER FACTORS COMPLICATING THE SITUATION. FINALLY FI/WRPT FIVE DIVISION STATES THAT ΤΗΣ CONDITIONS INPOSED BY VERSON GARRANT A SUSPICION THAT THIS DEAL HAS DEEN DESIGNED FOR EXPLOITATION OF THE PRIO CROUP RPT PRIO GROUP IN THE NOVEMBER ELECTIONS IN CUDA.

2. IN VIEW OF THE ABOVE, WE HAVE NOT APT NOT FORWARDED YOUR LETTER BUT SUBSTITUTED A DRAFT ALONG LINES SUGGESTED BY FI RPT FI. WE HAVE POUCHED YOU A COSY AND YOU WILL NOTE THAT IS IS VAGUE AND EVASIVE. THIS HAS BEEN DOVE DELIBERATELY WITH THE HOPE THAT IT WILL AROUSE REPLY; FOR OBVIOUS REASON THE WASHINGTON RETURN ADDRESS IS INDICATED. FI BILL RPT FI BILL CONTINUE TO PREPARE REPLIES UNTIL SUCH TIME AS THE OFFER IS FINALLY REJECTED OR YOU ARELAGKED TO PARTICIPATE IN ANOTHER MELTINC.

YOU

3. WE TRUST THE ARRANGEMENTS DESCRIBED ABOVE KELT WIT APPROVAL. IF THERE ARE ANY CERPE CE ASPECTS YOU CAN CALL TO OUR ATTENTION, ADVISE AND THEY WILL BE USED TO ADJUST THE OFERATION.

30/12 SEP CAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# 14-00000

# F-27897

# F 116.92

(PRIORITY) SECRET ON NE 122 TO NEW ORLEANS FROM WASHINGTON

TO MANY FROM AIRCRAFT BY CIESIELSKI - CITE MA-9870

THIS IS NEW CASE 1563 PPT 166094 SUBJECT: MEETING WITH REPRESENTATIVES OF CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS NOT CARLOS PRIO SOCARRAS.

RE CONVERSATION ORDER-CIESIELSKI ON 1 RPT / SEPTEMBER 54. ACCORDING TO FISUR RPT FI/HU DIVISION, FRANK JACKSON RPT FRANK JACKSON OF MIAMI, FLORIDA APPROACHES PRESIDENTIAL AIDE SHERMAN ADAMS RPT SHERMAN ADAMS WITH A STORY THAT INTELLIGENCE MATERIAL CONCERNING SOVIET PLANS IN THE CARRIBEAN AREA COULD BE MADE AVAILABLE THROUGH CARLOS PRIO.

IT APPEARS THAT SHERMAN ADAMS TOLD JACKSON THAT IT MIGHT BE OF INTEREST TO CIA RPT CIA AND INDICATED THAT HE WOULD TAKE APPROPRIATE ACTION.

FRANK JACKSON IS REPORTED TO BE CONNECTED WITH AN ORGANIZATION KNOWN AS WORLD SURVEYS; HE ALSO SERVES AS PUBLIC RELATIONS REPRESENTATIVE FOR PRIO. IN SPITE OF THIS BUSINESS CONNECTION IT IS BELIEVED THAT JACKSON'S MOTIVATION IS CORRECT. THIS CONCLUSION IS BASED ON THE FACT THAT HE HAS HAD SERVICE WITH ONI RPT ONE AND THE SECRET SERVICE, AND IS PERSONALLY VOUCHED FOR BY A MEMBER OF THE CIA RPT CIA SECURITY OFFICE.

AS YOU KNOW, PRIO IS CURRENTLY INVOLVED WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND SCHEDULED TO STAND TRIAL ON AN ARMS SMUGGLING CHARGE.

THE SI RPT FI AREA DIVISION HAS TAKEN INTO CONSIDERATION THE POSSIBILITY THAT THIS CURRENT PRIO OFFER IS A MANEUVER DESIGNED TO PLACE THE US RPT US GOVERNMENT IN AN AWKWARD POSITION. ON THE OTHER HAND, JACKSON STATES THAT THE PRIO GROUP IS MAKING THIS OFFER WITHOUT ANY THOUGHT OF FINANCIAL RETURN OR POLITICAL FAVORS.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

THE AFOVE INAGRATION LE FURNISHED FOR BACKGROUND. WE HAVE ASKE
SECURITY TO COORDINATE WITH FOX SPT FAI ON A CRASH BASIS AND WILL -
ABK YOU TO TAME NO LOT NO ACTION UNTIL THIS COCASDATION IS EFFECTED
AT THE GASHINCTON LEVEL. PLEASE CONSIDER THIS WIFE AS AN ALERT AND
ADVISE US OF YOUR ESTIMATED DEPARTURE FREE SO THAT WE CAN NOTIST
YOU BY TELEPHONE THAT THE NECESSARY COORDINATION HAS BEEN COMPLETED.
AT HIANS JACKSON CAN 27 CONTACTED THROUGH THE FOLLOWING TELEPHONE
NRIDER 45-6655 135 46-5558, AND TOLD THAT YOU ARE IN MIANI AS A
FOLLOW-UP ΤΟ ΤΗΣ ΑΣΕΤING HE HAD IN WASHINGTON WITH MR. HENRY THOMAS
APY MR. SINBY THOMAS (THOMAS IS THE SECURITY REPRESENTATIVE DESCRIGEO
ASOVE AS JACKSON'S FRIEND).

IT IS NOT EPT NOT KNGUN WHETHER PRIS VILL ATTEND PERSONALLY OP.
SEND REPING SENTATIVES. IT IS DELIEVED THAT A BI-LINGUAL REPRESENTATIVE
WILL RE BRONCHY BY THE PRIG SEOPLE. AT THE MUSTING YOU ARE ASKED
ΤΟ ΤΟ ΤΗΣ FOLIOSINCE

A. SECURU AS MUCH METALLED INFORMATION ARCUT THE OFFER OF SOVIET
INTELLIGENCE PLANS AS FOSSIBLE.

B. SECURE THE NAMES OF THE REPRESENTATIVES.

WIFORTUNATELY, YOU WILL BE IN NO RPT NO POSITION TO MAKE ANY
COMMITMENTS AND THE PRIC REPRESENTATIVES SHOULD BE SO ADVISED SY

UNFORTUNATELY, YOU WILL BE IN NO KPT NO POSITIΟΥ ΤΟ ΠΑΚΣ ΑΝΥ
COMITHENTS AND THE PRIO REPRESENTATIVES SHOULD SE SO ADVISED P7
YOU, YOU WILL ALSO ADVISE THOMAS ON THIS POINT AS YOUR FIRST MEETING
IT SIN. WE FEEL THAT IT WILL 25 CEST IF YOU COU1.01.2017 ALTOGE
OF YOUTE CIA POT CIA AFFILIATION TO JACKSON AND INTRODUCE YOURSELS
ΤΟ ΤΗΣ ΓΑΙΟ HALL AS A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE OS RPT US COVERNMENT ино
IS VOUCHED FOR DY JACKSON.

31/26552 SEP CAS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# Chief, Contact Division

Chief, New Orleans Office

Case 16.03

22 September 1958

15-21877

1. Confirming and supplementing our several long-distance telephone conversations, I report herewith concerning my interview with Mr. Frank Jackson and two members of the Prio Socarras' group in Miami, Florida, on 17 and 19 September 1958. This portion of the report is concerned with the mechanics of the operation and the personalities involved. It would do, I presume, of little interest to FI. A supplemental section contains a description of the material offered by the Cuban refugees, which portion, I assume, you will turn over to SI/WH Division.

2. On arrival in Miami, I called at the office of the FBI with a view to informing that Agency of my presence and of the general nature of the activities I proposed to engage in, so that the agents of the Bureau would not be unduly surprised if they learned of my activities from other agents who were previously doing my proposed contacts under surveillance. The SAC was absent from the office.

Accordingly I talked with one of the Duty Officers, a Special Agent named Schilldecker, whom I had met before and who has frequently cooperated with our representative in Miami, John R. Pryor. Schilldecker was most pleasant and cooperative.

I informed him that the matter on which I was engaged had been coordinated with FBI Headquarters through Mr. Charles Hulse and that the Bureau interposed no objections. I then told him, in general terms, about the activities of Mr. Frank Jackson in Washington. The Agent said that he had known Jackson for about 10 years and that he considered Jackson to be an unreliable person and a complete opportunist. He said that Jackson had been in Naval Intelligence during World War II and that since the end of his tour of active duty he had held a number of jobs in none of which he had been able to make a success. These jobs included the agency for a wire manufacturer, the position of deputy sheriff in Miami Beach, the agency for a maker of concrete blocks and several other enterprises. In one of his jobs Jackson had been suspected of pilferage and had been discharged on that account, although no prosecution was instituted. Jackson is now, according to Schilldecker, operating a private detective agency and is also acting as public relations advisor to Prio and his group. He is believed to be the owner of a corporation known as "Enterprise Many, Inc," the exact operations of which are unknown.

3. Schilldecker said that Jackson claimed to have excellent sources of information on Cuba and that he particularly had referred to a Captain Salvador Diaz Verson, a political refugee from Cuba, who had engaged quite intensively in anti-communist activities. Schilldecker said that the "legal attache" (I assume that this was an FBI representative) at the US Embassy in Havana had at one time written to the SAC in Miami about Verson and had said that the latter had once been in a position to obtain valuable information concerning the activities of the Communists in Cuba, but that, in his belief, Verson was given to flights of fancy.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

Chief, Contact Division

-2-

22 December 1954

A. (Gelill)decker pointed out that, although the criminal cases against Prio and Curti Lad been cided with pleas of nolo contendere and fires, cases vare still pendice against four other Cubea exiles who are allegedly engaged in the gun-running plot. He said that inasmuch as the cases were primarily the interest of the Customs Department, the FBI van not immediately interested. He voiced the opinion that Customs representatives were maintaining surveillance on the defendants in the various suits.

5. Returning from the FBI office, I telephosed Jackson, an arrengod, at 3:00 p.m. and identified myself as directed in WA-9779. Jackson said that it would be impossible to arrange a meeting with the Cubans that afternoon, since the leader of the group would not be available. He said that a meeting could do erroagod for the following relog, Sunday, 19 September, at 11:00 a.m., and I accordingly arranged to meet the group in a room at the Columbus Hotel which I had reported for that purpose. I suggested a preliminary meeting with Jackson so ro to obtain information about the persons I was to see, but he said that that would not be feasible on saturday and that he would drop in on Sunday mersing a for minutes ahead of the root of the group.

6. Jackson arrived at the decimated room on sunday morning at 10:45 a.m. He did not request the exhibition of credentials and i did not exhibit then. He said that the meeting with the Cubans would have to do postponed until 4:00 o'clock Sunday afternoon, Inasmuch as the leader of the group was at that time engaged in preparing a speech. He said he would bring two members of the group to the Columbus Hotel at 4:00 p.m., and I agreed to meet them at that time.

7. Jackson said that the two men he wanted se to talk to were Banos Carlos Movie and a Captain Verson, whose full name Mr. Jackson Cid not know. Ca said that Carlos Havia is a leading Cuban consulting engineer and is a graduate of the US Military Academy of the class of 1919. For a short time he ves President of Coba and was subsequently Ambassador to the US. He is a member of Frio's Authentico Party, but belongs to the conservative wing which is highly critical of sous of Prio's actions. Havia vas exiled from Cuba when his nato ves found on an envelope ia the possession of Sanches Arcago. He is under indictment in the US District Court but has pleaded not guilty to charges of gun-running proving out of the same incident concerning which Prio pleaded "nolo contendara."

8. Captain Verson, according to Jackson, is end has been for racy years the president of the Anti-Communist League of Cuba. During a part of the terms of Grau San Martis and Prio, Verson held the rank of Captain in the Cubea army and vas in charge of a counter-espionage section dealing with Cuban Communists. Verson, in his official capacity, was largely instrumental in having the Soviet Embassy in Havana closed. He was removed by Batista from Lis Army post in 1952 and, after spending some months in sanctuary in the Uruguayan Embassy in Havana, he came to Miami in June of 1954.

9. Jackson also wished me to meet Prio, Dr. Pedro Martinez farega and ats Ortega. Prio vas currently in New York. Martinez was formerly Ambassador to as US and a delegate to the United Nations. He was described by Jackson as one of the most brilliant persons he had ever met and he said that I could obtain a


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# Chief, Contact Division

-3-

22 September, 1934

great deal of information from Ntl concerning the present political and economic situation in Cuba. It was not immediately available and had no connection with the documents allegedly possessed by Verson. Ortega, a former newspaper columnist and member of Batista's Consultative Council, was also described by Jackson as a prolific source of information on Cuban political matters. He too was not immediately available and had no connection with the Verson documents. In the circumstances, I told Jackson that I would defer interviews with Kirtines and Ortega until some future time.

10: At 4:00 p.m. on Monday, 19 September, Jackson returned to the room in the Columbus Hotel, bringing with him Senor Revia and Captain Verson. Jackson introduced me as Mr. Bruton, a pseudonym I had supplied. He told them that I was a representative of the US Government and that we were interested in the documents in Verson's possession. He assured them that the information which they might give would be treated as highly classified material, and he then left the meeting.

It developed that Captain Verson could not speak any English (incidentally, Jackson does not speak Spanish), so that it was necessary to converse with him through Revia, who acted as interpreter. Revia is fluent in English and Spanish.

11. The substance of the information supplied by Veraco concerning the documents in his possession is contained in the second part of this report.

Verson appeared to attach a very high historical value to the contents of his documents and seemed anxious to make them available to US authorities. He disclaimed any desire for a fee and merely said that he wished to retain the originals, since he considered that they constituted an authentic account of the growth of the Communist movement in Cuba, but that we would be entirely welcome to photostat or otherwise copy the contents of his files.

12. At the conclusion of the interview, I thanked the two Cubans for their courtesy and cooperation and told Senor Revia that I would get in touch with him later in the week either directly or through Mr. Jackson.

13. I enclose herewith a letter to Revia confirming our interest in the Verson documents and asking him to notify me when it is expected that they will begin arriving, so that we may attempt to facilitate their entry. You will note that I have signed the letter with the name "Bruton" which is how I was introduced to Revia and Verson by Jackson. I think the letter should be mailed in Washington rather than in New Orleans, so as to allay any suspicions that Revia may harbor that I am not actually a government representative. You will note that I have suggested that Revia write to us in New Orleans in care of Miss Joan M. Eaton at Post Office Box 1016. He will, no doubt, assume that this is a letter-drop.

14. In view of the fact that I refer by implication to the Customs Department, I suggest that you hold the letter to Revia until you or Ciesielski have discussed the matter with Mr. Emerick, who is the superior of Mr. Wyatt, the Supervising Customs Agent in Miami. I suggest that the letter be sent air mail, unregistered. I have left the date blank and I request that you insert it before mailing. If you wish to change the letter in any way, please do so. Revia does not, of course, know my handwriting, so that the letter can be signed by anyone.

Burke:gr

William P. Burke


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

Security Information

26 August 1953

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chiefs All Field Offices

FROM: Chief, Contact Division (L/A)

SUBJECT: Case 14063

REFERENCE: CO-B-67546 (ARIS-3589)
CO-A-20309 (RJ-3094)

CUBA - Economic

1. For your information, the following requirements were submitted by OCI for action by FI.

2. Background

CO-A-20309 states that Carlos Prio has been transferring funds from his Miami bank to his brother Francisco Frio, c/o Guaranty Trust Company, New York. CO-B-67546 states that there is a rumor that Carlos Prio has invested money in a chain of hotels in Switzerland.

For some months past Carlos Prio has been suspected of preparing an invasion of Cuba to oust Batista; however, other reports indicate that Francisco Prio is engaged in handling transfers out of the US for Carlos "for investment abroad", i. e., for unspecified non-revolutionary purposes.

3. Requirements

a. Evidence that Carlos Prio has been investing in Swiss hotels and details of the transaction, e.g., date, price paid, intermediaries, etc.

b. Any information available of other foreign investments that he has made.

RHeller/th

Info: All Field Offices

FILE: Source of CO-B-67546
NO-Y-83.6

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# F27877
# F116921

Office of Collection & Dissemination

Contest Division, 00 (1/4 Branch)

8 September 1953

Transfer of Funds by Prio Rocorras (DD-4-5995, ID-966)

A116921/S-27877 S-116921
US bank at which Carlos and Francisco Prio Rocorras have accounts. Neither Carlos nor Francisco has sought the bank's advice on investments.

Prio's account shows that in early June 1953 there was a balance of US$7,714.12. That the highest balance reached was US$11,841.72 on 19 June 1953. On 31 July 1953 the account had fallen to US$3,434.38. There has been little change from that date.

This account shows the following:

| Debits     | Credits | Prov. Bal US$7,714.12 |
| ---------- | ------- | --------------------- |
|            | 50,000  | 57,714.12             |
| 336.33     |         | 57,377.13             |
| 150.00     |         | 57,227.13             |
| 3,700.00   |         | 57,287.13             |
| 40,000.00  |         | 51,527.13             |
| 2,000.00   |         | 11,527.13             |
| 2,500.00   |         | 9,527.13              |
|            | 86,500  | 6,027.13              |
|            | 15,000  | 93,227.13             |
| 5,000.00   |         | 108,227.13            |
| 100,000.00 |         | 103,227.13            |
|            |         | 3,227.13              |

Deposit of US$6,500 on 3 July was in the form of a check drawn by the bank of Miami Beach, Fla.

Deposit of US$15,000 on 9 July was in the form of a check on the Bank of New York, the drawer's signature illegible.

The withdrawal of 26 August was in cash. Carlos asked for one thousand dollars, and was given mostly one hundred dollar bills and a few five hundred dollars.

During 1952, the most unusual activity of Carlos' account was the deposit of US$150,000 on 25 September, a US$150,000 deposit on 24 September, and a withdrawal of US$140,000. Since the withdrawal was by check, which was paid to the depositor after cancellation, the identity of the payee is not known.

Mrs. Prio has a safety deposit at a branch of this bank and her husband.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

8 Sep 53

as to it. We probably could learn the extent of the activity which as taken place with regard to this bank if it would serve any good purpose.

1. During the week of 28 August-4 September 1953, Carlos presented one undred thousand pesos in new bills at the bank, requesting dollars therefor. os was told the currency would have to be sent to the Banco Nacional de Cuba r devaluation and that the bank in all probability would want to know the entity of the persons exchanging the pesos. Carlos reluctantly agreed to at paid he had previously sold a large sum of pesos to another bank difficulty. Carlos said his reason for requesting the embargo was feared a devaluation of the Cuban peso because of the rapid depletion s gold reserves in the US.

The foregoing information was made available with the understanding .t it stand for CIA internal use only. If there are inquiries concerning nita, please call Harry L. Andres, extension 2832.

E. H. ASHCRAFT


::C-c/dh A-8

P: Guaranty Trust Co. of New York


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET TO WASHINGTON FROM NEW YORK

TO ASHCRAFT FOR LA (MCCREA) FROM LEA--SECURITY INFORMATION--CITE NY-9115

CASE 14,863 RPT 14,063

FOR CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY.

OUR CONTACT AT THE GUARANTY TRUST ADVISED THAT/INSOFAR AS HE WAS ABLE TO LEARN NEITHER CARLOS NOR FRANCISCO PRIO/HAS SOUGHT THE ADVICE OF ANY OFFICER OF THE BANK CONCERNING FOREIGN INVESTMENTS. BOTH CARLOS AND FRANCISCO HAVE ACCOUNTS AT THE GUARANTY TRUST.

THE ACCOUNT OF FRANCISCO SHOWS THAT IN EARLY JUNE 53, RFT 53, THERE WAS A BALANCE OF $4,841.72 RPT $4,841.72; THAT THE HIGHEST DALANCE REACHED WAS $14,841.72 RPT $14,841.72 ON 19 APT 19 JUNE; AND THAT AS OF SU RPT 32 JUL 33 RPT 53 THERE WAS A BALANCE IN ΤΗΣ ACCOUNT OF $1,434.38 RPT $1,434.38; THERE HAS BEEN NO ACTIVITY SINCE THAT DATE.

A TRABS RPT TRANSCRIPT OF CARLOS' ACCOUNT SHOWS THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITY IN 33 APT 531

CARLOS PRIO SOCARROS

84/19922


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

DEUITS   CREDITS   PREV BAL
MAY 27   50,000.00 7,718.12
JUNE 1 346.89  57,718.12
12 150.00  57,377.13
17 5,760.00  57,227.13
40,000.00  51,527.13
2,000.00  11,527.13
18 2,800.00  9,527.13
JULY 3   86,500.00  6,727.13
9   15,000.00  93,227.13
29 9,000.00  108,227.13
AUG 26 100,000.00  163,227.13
3,227.13

THE DEPOSIT OF $86,500

BUST THIS PARA PLEASE. THANKS.

THE DEPOSIT OF $86,500 RPT $86,500 ON 3 RPT 3 JULY WAS IN THE FORM OF A CHECK DRAWN BY MARIA SOLEDAD ALBA RPT MARIA SOLEDAD ALBA, MIAMI BEACH, FLORD RPT FLORIDA.

THE DEPOSIT OF $15,000 RPT $15,000 ON 9 RPT 9 JULY WAS IN THE FORM OF A CHECK DRAWN ON THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA/NEW YORK. THE DRAWER'S SIGNATURE WAS ILLEGIBLE.

THE DEBIT OF $100,000 RPT $100,000 ON 26 RPT 26 AUGUST WAS A WITHDRAWAL IN CASH MADE ON THAT DATE BY CARLOS WHO ASKED FOR BILLS OF ONE THOUSAND DOLLAR DENOMINATION BUT WAS GIVEN MOSTLY ALL ONE HUNDRED DOLLAR BILLS AND A FEW OF FIVE HUNDRED DOLLAR DENOMINATION.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

THE HOST USUSUAL ACTIVITY LY THE ACCORD JURING 12

RFT 1952 WAS THE DEPOSIT OF 145,650 RFT 245, ECE ON RPT 25 SEPTEMBER
1952 RFT 1952 AND A 315826 RFT 3155,CER DEPOSIT ON 29 RPT 29
CEFTENER 1952 FT 1932, NEITHER OF WHICH CANGE IDENTIFIED, AND A
WITHDRAWAL IN OCTOBER RT 159 BY CHECK IN THE SUM OF 8148,002
APT $140,608. SINCE ALL CANCELLED CHECKS ARE RETURNED TO TΗΣ
DEPOSITOR AT THE END OF EACH NORTH THIS CHECK IS NOT AVAILABLE
FOR EXAMINATION.

WE HAVE ALSO BEEN INFORMED THAT THERE IS A SAFETY DEPOSIT BOX IN
THE NAME OF MRS. CARLOS PRIO AT THE BANK, TO WHICH HER HUSBAND
HAS ACCESS. WE HAVE NOT ATTEMPTED TO FIND OUT THE EXTENT OF ΤΗΣ
ACTIVITY WHICH HAS TAKEN PLACE IN CONNECTION WITH THIS BOX BUT
COULD POSSIBLY DO SO IF IT WOULD SERVE ANY GOOD PURPOSE.

WITHIN THE PAST WEEK CARLOS PRIO PRESENTED ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
PESOS TO THE BANK AND REQUESTED CASH IN EXCHANCE THEREFOR. HE
UNDERSTAND THAT THE ENTIRE AMOUNT WAS IN NEW BILLS. HE WAS TOLD
THAT THE CURRENCY WOULD HAVE TO BE SENT TO CUBA FOR EXAMINATION
AND THAT IN ALL PROBABILITY THE BANCO NACIONAL DE CUBA WOULD WANT
TO KNOW THE IDENTITY OF THE PERSON EXCHANG ING THE PESOS. CARLOS
SAID HE WOULD RATHER NOT HAVE HIS NAME DISCLOSED BUT CONSENTED TO
BE NAMED IF THE BANK INSISTED UPON IT. AT THAT TIME, CARLOS TOLD
THE BANK OFFICIALS THAT HE HAD PREVIOUSLY SOLD A LARGE SUM OF PESOS
TO ANOTHER BANK WITHOUT ANY DIFFICULTY.

APPARENTLY IN THE COURSE OF THE NEGOTIATIONS FOR THE EXCHANCE
ΟF ΤΗΣ PESOS CARLOS REMARKED THAT HE FEARS A DEVALUATION OF THE
CUBAN CURRENCY BECAUSE OF THE RAFID DEPLETION OF CUBAN GOLD RESERVES
IN THIS COUNTRY, WHICH WOULD RESULT IN A LARGE FINANCIAL LOSS TO
HIM.

OUR CONTACT IS AT THE MAIN OFFICE OF THE GUARANTY TRUST AND ΤΗΣ
ACCOUNT AND SAFETY BOX OF THE PRIO'S ARE LOCATED IN ONE OF THE
DRANCHES. BECAUSE OF THE IDENTITY OF THE DEPOSITOR AND THE MANNER
IN WHICH THE ABOVE INFORMATION WAS NECESSARILY COTAINED, OUR
CONTACT HAS ASKED THAT THE DATA BE TREATED IN THE STRICTEST
CONFIDENCE. ACCORDINGLY THIS INFORMATION MUST BE RESTRICTED TO
CIA SPT CIA INTERNAL USE ONLY.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Chief, Office of Collection & Disssaténtica

Chief, Contect Division, 08 00 (1/4 Eramz)

Fiamlal Motivities of Carles Prio dodara (599), 18-966)

F116-921

127877

10 September 1953

2117A 116921

1.  On 2 September 1953, Carles Prio Bosarras comerted 98,000 Cuban pesos to US currency at a bank, Tho bank is ant that referred to in our scornates of & Essteaber 1993 on the cave subject. In this second trancastics, the bank hept a record of some of the bills issued to Prie.

2.  If there are Inquiries concerning this caseredeation, please call Harry A. MoCres, extensder 2258.

R. A. ASKRAFT

PHO 791.6

Orig filed in 35519


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)