1104-10160-10207

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

AMBIDCY-1

15 June 1964

SYNOPSIS

Per his request, 2nd Lt. Oliverio Antonio TOMEU Vasallo vas recontected on 8 June 64 at his place of residence. He provided additional details on Carlos and Ana Gloria de VARONA, and identified Osiel GONZALEZ and one "COCO" as possible leads to Jose LLANUZA Sobel.

SECRET

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

15 June 1964

CONTACT REPORT

SUBJECT: Recontact of Oliverio A. TOMKU Pasallo. (201-283306)

1. At 1730 hours, 8 June 64, the undersigned vas advised at his residence that a Mr. ToMEU (Subject) had called the security number given hin (351-6161) and left the message that he would like to talk again with Paul Stroud (the undersigned) anytime after 1800 hours, 8 June.

2. Upon arriving at TOMKU's apartment (Apt. 303, 1028 Vahler Place &R, High Point Apartment House, Washington, D. C.). 1830 hours, 8 June, TOMEU indicated to his two daughters he would like to have some privacy and they and his wife, Caridad, left the apartment.

3. TOMEU apologized for not having recelled the name "de VAROMA" as that of Anz Gloria de VARONA, He reiterated that, while in hiding to escape capture by the Cuban Government subooquent to his infiltration, he know only the first asses of the persons with whom he came in contact, but then added he knew Ana Gloria de VARONA, in whose house he was hiding, because she was the sister of Carlos de VARONA, one of his infiltration team sembers. (This Carlos de VAROKA may be identical with one Carlos Manual de VARCHA Segura, 201-289985; or one Carlos Arturo VAROSA Arjona, 201-283209.)

4. On several ocoarions, according to TOMEU, he was seated at the table in Ana's house with several other people. One of these individuals, known to TOMEU only as "COCO," van described as the socretary to Jose LLARUKA Gobel. There was not, however, any discussions in which TOMKU recalls LLANUZA or his political aympathies having been discussed. According to TONEU's recol- lestion it was "COCO" who was associated with LLANUZA, and he tos zot suere of any relationship betesee AER 626 MARZA. Although Tomba bad no information as to what finally happened to Carlos de VAROMA, his infiltration toan mate, he suggested that if Carlos er Ann vare available they may be able to identify "C000 and provide data en his acceseability for contact.

5. One Caiel GONZALES, forser Chief of the Ravana Fire Department, was identified by TOKKU as another possible lead


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

-2-

who would know LLANUZA. TOMEU affirmed Osiel was previously with MEFOTO Gutierrez in the Second Front of Escambray. Osiel was under asylum in the Brazilian Embassy (sic, Argentine Embassy?), when TOMEU gained political asylum. When Osiel finally received his safe conduct from the Embassy, he went to Puerto Rico and, TOMEU postulates that Osiel is now again with MENOTO in either the United States or Puerto Rico.

6. Two snap shots (to be returned) were provided by TOMEU of himself and six other individuals who were in asylum at the same time. Be identified these, in the photograph in which Monsignor Eduardo DOZA Kasvidal is seated, as, from left to right: Manuel VILLAMANAN, Oliverio TOMEU, Nils DIAZ (believed to be in US), Publio RUIZ (US), Jorge Del VALLE (Mex?), and Osiel GONZALEZ (US or Puerto Rico?).

7. Upon completing the debriefing, Stroud and TOMEU "exchanged small talk" for a while until TOMEU finally stated that he still wished there was something more he could do to help free Cuba, and asked "What do you think I should do?"

Stroud replied that no person could really make that type of decision for another individual, and countered by asking TOMEU what alternatives he had in mind, other than remaining in the US Army as a career military officer.

8. TOMEU replied that, of course, he was once an agriculturalist, but that there were few job opportunities in which he could apply his past experience. His sister had also asked him if he felt he and his family would want to live with her in Spain or Mexico, but he didn't think too much of this idea.

He then stated that he had been asked by Manuel ARTIME to take a job as an instructor. Without indicating any association of even awareness of ARTIME's activities, or of ARTIME's contact with TOMEU (as indicated in TOMEU's 201),
TOMEU was asked what he thought of ARTIME's proposition. TOMEU stated that he would no longer follow any man as a individual or as a leader, because a man's ideals, outlook, and objectives change with time. For example, the people of Cuba followed Fidel because of the ideals he advocated. When Fidel took over, his accomplishments gradually became quite different from the ideals he had espoused. TOMEU continued by saying he would "no longer follow a man, One could only trust his ideals or of an organization a which followed those ideals, since a good organization would be less likely of being controlled by a single man." When asked for an example of the type of organization he had in mind, TOMEU replied he was most favorably inclined towards the ideals and goals of the JURE. (The JURE or JRC is an organization created by Manolo RAY Rivero around a nucleus of former 26 July Movement leaders. See memo and attachment dated 23 July 1963 from John Pugh Crimmins, Coordinator of Cuban Affairs, ARA, Department of State in TOMEU's 201-283206.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

-3-

9. It should, perhaps, be noted here that in an informal exchange with Mrs. Donald WEBSTER, TOKEU's supervisor at the Defense Language Institute, Anacostia Naval Annex, 4 June 64, Mrs. WEBSTER volunteered the information that "all of the other 'Brigade students here' have told me they think very highly of TOKEU, and that he is a very brave man, because he and his family were very wealthy in Cuba and he gave it all up to go into exile and fight the Castro Regime."

WB/3A/SO/KS
C. PAUL PLUMB, JR.

SECRET
![image of text that is exemption 3B not automatically declassifying and declassification]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)