# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MHFNO3 97-7895762

SECRET

SENSIND: RYBAT-

PAGE: 1

SECRET

FR-P

STAFF

ACTION: AF/SG (634) INFO: AFDORECORD, CIC/AF, CIC/CEG, CIC/CEGAF, CIC/OG,
CIC/PRC, LIMITED, MDSX, ODPD, ORMS/AF, RYBAT, FILE (2/W)

97 7895762 ASR PAGE 001 IN 7895762
TOR: 1410252 MAY 97 HARE 74725

SECRET 1410262 MAY 97 STAFF

CITE HARARE 74725

TO: DIRECTOR.

FOR: LIMITED DISSEM AF/SG INFO CIC/AF

SLUGS: WNINTEL RYBAT BRACERB

SUBJECT: CONTACT REPORT WITH - BRACERB/17, 201-0969314

REF: A. HARARE 74714 97 7885941
B. HARARE 74711 97 7884733

TEXT:

1. A. PARTICIPANTS -
   ASSET CRYPT: BRACERB/17
   TYPE ASSET: RECRUITED
   C/O: PHALEN
   OTHER(S):
   B. OPS ALIASES USED -
   ASSET ALIAS:
   C/O ALIAS:
   OTHER(S) ALIAS:
   C. DATE OF MEETING: 12 MAY 97
   D. TIME OF MEETING: 1545-1630
   E. TYPE OF MEETING: PERSONAL
   F. (1) PLACE(S) OF MEETING: COS RESIDENCE PATIO
   (2) MAP GRID:
   G. NEXT MEETING -
   DATE: 13 MAY 97
   TIME: 1045
   TYPE: BRUSH PASS
   PLACE: <EXECUTIVE>HEALTH CLUB LOCKEROOM
   MAP GRID:
   ALTERNATE:

2. A. OPERATIONAL: SEE REF A REGARDING UPCOMING HOS TRIP.
   COS RETURNED A/17 AND SPOUSE'S PASSPORTS WITH 10 YEAR MULTIPLE ENTRY
   VISAS, WHICH PLEASED AGENT A/17 GAVE COS UPDATED TELTAP-REPORT FROM
   UNILATERAL SUBSOURCE BRCOYOTE/1 AGENT REPORTED THAT NEXT WEEK HE
   SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

MHFNO: 97-7895762 SENSIND: RYBAT PAGE: 2

WILL BE TDY IN MALAWI WHERE HE WILL HAVE A SITDOWN SESSION WITH MAC;
COS URGED A/17 TO GET MORE FI/CI ON SANDF EFFORTS AGAINST ZIMBABWE,
ADDING THAT THE LAST REPORT WAS WELL RECEIVED. COS ALSO TASKED AGENT
LON ZAIRE.

B. INTELLIGENCE: WRITTEN REPORT FROM SUBSOURCE MAC, WHO OBTAINED
FROM VPMARTIAL/1 IN LUSAKA. WILL REPORT SEPARATELY A LENGTHY AND
*BIZARRE ACCOUNT OF<JFK>CONSPIRACY WRITTEN BY NECROMANCER ROY ROBIN
((MULLINS)), DPOB: 24 JUN 42, ENGLAND, A FORMER CIO OFFICER BEFORE
RAISING THE TOPIC, A/17 ASKED COS NOT TO LAUGH, AND COS PROMISED,
ONLY TO BREAK HIS WORD ONCE HE STARTED LEAFING THROUGH THE CONTENTS.
A/17 JOKED THAT HE WOULD NEVER FORGIVE COS, WHO RETURNED THE DOCUMENT
TO AGENT.

C. ADMINISTRATIVE

SALARY:
AGENT OPS EXPENSES:
C/O OPS EXPENSES: DRINKS AND SNACKS
OTHER:

D. PLANS AND OTHER ACTION ITEMS: NEED TO PAY BRCOYOTE/1'S NEXT
SALARY. PER REF B, CONFIRM WIRE TRANSFER OF ACCOMMODATION EXCHANGE
FOR SUBSOURCE MAC. PASS FUNDS FOR AGENT'S TRAVEL, SET FOR BRUSHPASS
NEXT DAY.

E. COMMUNICATION PLAN (CHANGES ONLY) -

SCHEDULED:
ALTERNATE:
VARIANT:
EMERGENCY CONTACT -
C/O TO AGENT:
AGENT TO C/O:
RESERVE:
RECONTACT -
C/O TO AGENT:
AGENT TO C/O:

3. SECURITY/CI

A. C/O PROBLEMS/INCIDENTS: NONE
AGENT PROBLEMS/INCIDENTS: NONE
ATMOSPHERICS: SUPERB. AGENT IS EXCITED ABOUT HIS U.S. TRIP.

B. ASSET VALIDATION/OPS TESTING:

C. SDR ROUTES

(1) SDR GOING -

BEGIN TIME:
BEGIN LOCATION:
BEGIN MAP GRID:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:

(A) COVER STOP NUMBER 1:

MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:

(B) COVER STOP NUMBER 2:

MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET
PAGE: 3

MHFNO: 97-7895762
SENSIND: RYBAT

MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:

(2) SDR RETURNING
RETURN TIME:
RETURN LOCATION:
RETURN MAP GRID:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(A) RETURN COVER STOP NUMBER 1:
MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:
(B) RETURN COVER STOP NUMBER 2:
MAP GRID:
TIME OF STOP:
TIME OF DEPARTURE:
MODE OF TRANSPORTATION:
COMMENTS:

CL BY-07-21-195 CL_REASON_1.5C DECL ON X1
FILE: BRACERB/17 DECL_OADR_DRV_HUM_4-82

4. END OF MESSAGE

SECRET
SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)