14-00000
104-10107-10085
2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

5 February 1969

MEMORANDUM FOR: Office of the General Counsel

VIA : Chief, Central Cover Staff

INFO : Mr. Rocca, CI Staff

SUBJECT : (Thomas Lee Roberts) The Itkin Case

1. At our meeting on 30 January 1969, certain additional questions were raised relative to the relationship between (Roberts) and Itkin.

29 First, when did (LPGLOBE become aware that Itkin and the (Conestoga Group) had approached (Roberts) with a proposal to represent them in (Africa)? No We were advised in 1966 through case officer meetings with Roberts that he had been developing some potential cover company business with interests from the United States and England. We were given the name of the Conestoga Group) no later than 27 October 1966. We cannot say that we then knew the individual names of those involved. It was not uncommon for (Roberts) to have discussions with a number of potential clients; when it became apparent that no real business was forthcoming from this group, our interest ceased.

At the 30 January meeting, we were also asked certain questions about (Roberts) financial involvement with the law firm) he and Itkin has been with prior to (Robert's association with the Agency.

2. We can add nothing to Roberts) account of January 1968 reflecting that he entered into an agreement with the firm on 31 May 1961 wherein he was authorized leave of absence from 1 June 1961 to 31 May 1963 drawing $100.00 per week for that period.

EUGENE MILLIGAN
Chief, CCS/LEGLOBE


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)