104-10166-10115 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

UNCLASSIFIED   CONFI ITIAL   SECRET
U ONLY

ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

SUBJECT: (Optional)

FROM:

| TO: (Officer designation, room number, and building) | DATE | OFFICER'S INITIALS | DATE | COMMENTS (Number each comment to show from whom to whom. Draw a line across column after each comment.) |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ---- | ------------------ | ---- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1. c/cOG                                             |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 2. DC/COG                                            |      | R                  |      | Reviewed with /LAOT Hector.                                                                             |
| 3. CO/S/COG                                          |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 4.                                                   |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 5.                                                   |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 6.                                                   |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 7.                                                   |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 8.                                                   |      |                    |      | Letter to Ms. Cuesta de Knox. So see. - ok. Read this one Dela! - C. Agler /                            |
|                                                      |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 9.                                                   |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 10.                                                  |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 11.                                                  |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 12.                                                  |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 13.                                                  |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 14.                                                  |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |
| 15.                                                  |      |                    |      |                                                                                                         |


SECRET  CONFIDENTIAL  INTERNAL USE ONLY  UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

16 September 1975

MEMORANDUM FOR: C/LA/COG

SUBJECT: Letter from Mrs. Lourdes CUESTA, Ex-wife of Antonio CUESTA Valle, Formerly of Interest to JMWAVE Station

1. Lourdes CUESTA, ex-wife of Antonio CUESTA Valle, currently imprisoned in Cuba, wrote to the Director of CIA on 4 August 1975. She requested that the Agency "give her some kind of verification that her ex-husband was not connected nor the CIA had any knowledge that he was preparing the raids mentioned in Attempts No. 21 and 22" cited in a 31 July 1975 Miami Herald newspaper article following Senator McGovern's recent trip to visit Fidel CASTRO.

2. A carefully worded reply was prepared for signature by an assistant to the DCI; however, per instruction of the DC/LAD (from the DDO) it was requested that the letter not be sent, but rather that a DCD representative in Miami handle the matter with Mrs. CUESTA personally.

3. ▲ DCD representative in Miami contacted Mrs. CUESTA and told her that the Agency preferred that the matter be handled with a personal touch rather than by letter. Mrs. CUESTA did not accept this and has subsequently phoned the DCD representative several times requesting a written reply. Mrs. CUESTA said that she plans to send a copy of the reply to Fidel CASTRO and one to Senator McGovern. According to the DCD representative, Mrs. CUESTA (a nat- uralized U.S. citizen of Spanish birth) works for a lawyer (name unknown) and perhaps is following legal counsel.

4. On 11 September 1975 the AC/LA/COG phoned the DC/LAD and advised him of the foregoing. Sollowing the conversation it was decided that we would check out applicable maritime records in Archives, in addition to CUESTA's 201 file, and if we still un- covered no evidence that CUESTA was involved with CIA in the cited infiltration operations, draft a very brief letter of acknowledge- ment to Mrs. CUESTA and resubmit it for approval.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

5. Antonio CUESTA came to the U.S. from Cuba on 31 May 1960 as a refugee. According to his 201 file, he has had the following U.S. Government association:

a. As of February 1961 he was cited as a crewman aboard the M/V TEJANA. A POA was requested on 15 March 1961 for his use in PM maritime ops as a crewman on the vessel TEJANA under Project JMATE. Due to cessation of JMATE activities, processing of the clearance was suspended on 1 May 1961 until new interest was apparent. JMWAVE Station advised the Army of CIA operational interest in CUESTA on 26 May 1962. JMWAVE advised Headquarters on 5 June 1962 that CUESTA was not then being used and requested the basis of other Agency interest. There is no indication in pertinent maritime files or his 201 file that he was ever used on an operational mission by CIA.

b. ISR records show that CUESTA was registered as an Army source on 22 May 1962. There is no indication that he was dropped; however, it is recorded that he was reinstated on 12 August 1965. He was dropped again on 10 May 1966, without prejudice. There is no further record of Army association. The specifics of his association with the Army are unknown to the Agency.

6. From the time he came to the U.S. in 1960 until he was arrested by the Cuban Government, CUESTA was associated with the MRR, UR, Alpha 66 and Commando L organizations. The hit and run raids made by these groups were well-known to all government agencies and, in fact, openly known in Miami because of the propensity of the Cubans to talk. There were a number of discussions at the highest level (President) concerning what should be done about such raids. They were not sponsored by or connected with the U.S. Government. Two of these unauthorized raids are the ones referred to (attempts 21 and 22) in the article attached to Mrs. CUESTA's letter.

7. Mrs. CUESTA was born 21 May 1936 in Madrid, Spain. As of 30 March 1963 she was married to Antonio CUESTA, had one small son, and reportedly resided with Antonio in Miami, Florida. She currently refers to him as her ex-husband, but particulars of a separation or divorce are unknown. She is also known as Mrs. Maria Viza CUESTA, Maria Luisa Viza Blanco and Mrs. Vincente CHESTA. Following are items of interest:

a. Antonio CUESTA told the FBI that she lived with him in Miami, Florida as of 30 March 1963.

-2-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# SECRET

b. Mrs. CUESTA told the FlI in 1969 that she arrived in the U.S. 9 June 1963 at Miami, Florida.

c. ACSI advised JMWAVE Station in November 1966 that she had been in contact (date unknown) with Chafik Homero SAKER Zenni of the New York Cuba UN Mission. The FBI was advised of this and monitored her activities. [SAKER is a known long-time DGI officer PNG'd from the U.S. in 67/68 for support to Black Panther and SDS activities. He was DGI Chief of Center in Mexico City from 70-73, one of the founding fathers of the DGI and the DGI expert on illegal operations against the U.S.]

d. Mrs. CUESTA legally travelled to Cuba from Miami, via Mexico City, in April 1967 for a two week visit with her husband. In June 1967 the FBI advised JMNAVE Station that she was recruited by the CUIS while in Cuba and to hold this knowledge to a minimum because they intended to operate her as a double agent. She said the pitch was made on behalf of the DSE and would benefit both her and her husband. She was told if she successfully reported on anti-Castro activities in Miami, especially Commando L activities, for a period of six months, they would release her husband from custody and after three years of reporting permit him to leave Cuba. Her contact in the U.S. was to be Chafik Homero SAKER Zenni.

e. Mrs. CUESTA travelled to Cuba from Miami via Mexico City again on 9 February 1968 taking nine suitcases. She called Havana from Mexico City and asked to be met at the airport in Havana by two cars because of the excess baggage. While in Cuba she saw her husband several times. She returned to Mexico City on 4 March 1968.

8. This case was coordinated with the FBI representative, via Ops Liaison, on 12 September who asked that we hold up a response to her letter until he could check out the status of the case. It was recognized that Mrs. CUESTA could be acting in behalf of the DGI. On 16 September the FBI representative advised that FBI operational interest in Mrs. CUESTA was terminated circa December 1974 and that it would not be necessary for us to coordinate our response to Mrs. CUESTA's letter with the Bureau. Details of the FBI operational handling of Mrs. CUESTA are unknown. The FBI representative

-3-

SECRE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SECRET

advised that Mrs. CUESTA had inquired what it would cost to obtain documents in the FBI files on her under the FOIA.

9. Attempts are being made to obtain the name of the attorney for whom Mrs. CUESTA works.

10. Attached is a suggested reply to Mrs. CUESTA, based on the facts in para 5 a, for approval.

![signature of Chris Hopkins]
Chris Hopkins
LA/COG/CIOS

Filed: 201-281313 (Antonio CUESTA)

201-335014 (SAKER)

201-821216 (Lourdes CUESTA)

E2 IMPDET
CL BY 025231

-4-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

CIA LETTERHEAD

Suggested reply to Mrs. CUESTA's letter of 4 August 1975

Mrs. Lourdes Cuesta
2155 S.W. 5th Street
Miami, Florida 33135

Dear Mrs. Cuesta:

This is in reply to your letter of 4 August 1975 and subsequent conversations with one of our Miami, Florida representatives.

In response to your inquiry, we wish to advise that your ex-husbands alleged activities, cited as Attempts No. 21 and 22 in the newspaper article enclosed with your letter, were in no way sponsored by or associated with this Agency. Concerning prior knowledge of such activities, we can only say that anticipated activities of some of the independent exile groups often became public knowledge because of discussion within the exile community of such activities.

Sincerely,

Assistant to the Director


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)