# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# DISPATCH

|                |
| -------------- |
| CLASSIFICATION |
| **SECRET**     |

| TO   | Chief of Station, JMWAVE                                 |
| INFO | Chief, Western Hemisphere Division                       |
| FROM | Chief of Base, JMBAR                                     |
| SUBJECT | JMZIP/KUTUBE/KUDESK/KUSODA DRE Internal Codes/Sources and Companion |
| ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES | A. BARR-0270 B. WAVE-1220 (not sent DIR) |

| PROCESSING          |
| ------------------- |
| MAPPED FOR INDEXING |
| NO PRODUCE REQUIRED |
| ONLY QUALIFIED      |
| ABSTRACT            |
| MICROFILMED         |

MICROFILMED

OCT 2 1 1968

DOC MICRO. BER.

1. Forwarded under separate cover per reference B request are Subject codes and related information. Please note that the second code does not contain the "ll" of the Spanish alphabet as does the first code. If accessable, sources should be contacted for code-check.

2. In submitting the information the three DRE representatives requested to be interviewed jointly. Spokerman for the group was [Adolfo 04 BARRO Carcia], A fourth refugee, [Rafael SATA'A Ivares], entered POPRINE with the DRE representatives.

a. Adolfo BARRO Carcia aka TITO, DPOB - 30 Sep 1943, Quemado de Guines, Las Villas. Subject was a student until April 1961, He is a member of the Directorio Revolucionario Estudiantil (DRE) in Sagua la Grande, Las Villas and is the regional coordinator for the DRE in the area comprised of Corralillo, Rancho Veloz, Quemado de Guines, Isabela de Sagua, Sitiesito, Sitio Grande, Cifuentes, Amaro, En Crusijada, Calabasete de Sagua. The DRE has approximately 1000 men in this area but they lack arms and other equipment. A sending and receiving set (radio) has been installed at Isabela de Sagua, Las Villas. Bernardo la MADRID aka FAUSTINO is the present coordinator in Sagua da Grande, Las Villas. The purpose of their trip to PBPRIME is to contact Manuel SALVAT in Miami, Florida. They plan to return to Cuba.

b. Fernandes ARCO Hernandez aka ADAT, DPOB - 21 Aug 1943, Sagua la Grande, Las Villas.

c. Manuel Antonio ALZUCARAY Perez aka HECTOR, DPOB - 18 Jan 1943, Santa Clara, Las Villas.

Attachments: 1 a/s, w/encl.

Distribution:

3- JMWAVE w/1 att.

3- WHD v/l att.

|               |
| ------------- |
| CS COPY       |
| 19 - 120 - 18 |
| 19 - 120 - 33 |

|                            |
| -------------------------- |
| DATE TYPED                 |
| 7 Feb 1962                 |
| DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER |
| UFKA-1                     |
| HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER   |
| 7 Feb 1962                 |
| 19 - 120 - 19              |

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET

RETURN TO CIA Background Use Only Do Not Reproduce


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

## -2-

d. Rafael SA*TANA* Alvarez DPOS - 7 November 1932, Las Villas.
Subject was a chauffeur (taxi-driver) and plans to be at: 7750 Normandy
Drive, Apt. 2, Miami, Florida, while in PUPRIME. He stated that he resided
at Bernaza No. 210, Havana, Cuba. Though he was not a member of any
clandestine group, he assisted the MRR group in Caibarien and just recently
assisted others to leave the country. Subject and the aforementioned
persons departed Cuba on board the Cuban J/V BLANCA ESTRELLA owned by INRA
but operated by Subject's brother Israel SA*TA*A Alvares, who dropped them
at Anguila and returned to Cuba to bring others out that were supposed to
meet them, but they missed their connections. Subject's group departed
from Isabela de Sagua, Las Villas 24 January 1962 at approximately 2400 hours.
On 22 December 1961 a group of approximately twenty militiamen and men from
the ORI were drinking in various bars and displaying the Communist flag.
Anyone who appeared to be unsympathetic was beaten. They also went to
the homes of some who wore suspected of being anti-Castroites and would
beat them also. They beat up approximately twenty persons. This took
place in Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject was one of many arrested between
22 and 26 December. When they were taken to a restaurant across from
the G-2 office, Subject managed to escape. The other three men that
came with him on the boat managed to hide him until they made good
their escape by boat. Subject lists the following as G-2 agents:

Antonió OBRECON Correa, Mayor of Caibarien, Las Villas
One TOYO (nickname) is the head of the G-2 in Caibarien
(fnu) VILJASON is the assistant to TOYO
Evaristo HERRERA, who also works on a boat transhipping sugar from Cayo
Frances to Caibarien, Las Villas
Roberto *Rojos* aka *ESPONJOK*
Luciano DE*TAJA*, Juanito HE*TAJA* and four other brothers
Guillermo SA*NTANA*, Andres SA*TA*A, Lorenzo SA*TA*A

Subject further stated that Pedro MO*TERO*, Alejo MO*TERO* and Eduardo
MONTERO are active members of the MRR group in Caibarien, Las Villas.
Francisco ROBLE is the active coordinator for the MRR in this area.
Andres and Guillermo GO*ZALEZ* (fishermen) are informers for the G-2
in Caibarien. They will propose that they help Cubans get out of the
country. When all preparations are set up, the fishermen inform on
those wanting to leave. The same applies to Jose (Pepe) MIRO, Evelio
GARCIA and Lado COPA, all of Caibarien, Las Villas. Subject also stated
that the 381st and 382nd Battalion of militia are presently in Caibarien,
Las Villas. Subject states he is willing to return to Cuba and work for
the underground. (Source Comment: If this subject is to be used in any
manner, please be reminded that he claims to have escaped from the G-2.
He may be trying to infiltrate the groups here or he may be trying to
find out how the DRK operates in the Las Villas zone.

End of Message


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET
DRS INTERNAL CODES

MICROFILMED
OCT 21 1968
DOC. MICRO.. BER.

First Code they will use is the following:

Banda de 40 moters
7,500 kilocyclos

Clave Loon
Agente - 13 (identified only as "lidio" radio technician)

Breadcast time: 8:30 a.m. or 8:30 p.m. Las Villas

The code name to be used whan transmitting will be GUERRILLERO

|     |   A   |    B    |      C       |     D     |    E    |      F      |   G    |  H   |   I    |   J    |  K  |  L  |
| --- | :---: | :-----: | :----------: | :-------: | :-----: | :---------: | :----: | :--: | :----: | :----: | :-: | :-: |
|     |  PES  |   185   | ARADO 000-70 | DIA LIBRE | LO LOMA |     90      | 000-22 | LUZ  | 00-14  | CAIMAN |     |     |
|     | 130-3 |  LUNA   |     0023     |   SAPO    |  CARRO  | 122-9 8-180 | 00-78  | CATO | SILLON |  51-3  | 614 |     |
|     | 33-1  | COTORRA |    109-18    |   802-3   |         |             |        |      |        |        |     |     |

CODE FOR NUMBERS:

1. 345-20. 2. 893-104 3. CANON -00 4. 657-6 5. 00-2150 6. ALCATRAZ

7. SICLON 6. 2000-17 9. 56-00 0. 34-18

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

Removed from Project Subj file
CS Classification: 19-120-19
JOB $66-604/61
Box:// Folda/

Second Code to be used-they will use one code one day and the other the next:

Same band
Same frequency
Same time
Code's name "FUEGO" to indicate which code is being used
Agente - 13
Las Villas

The same code name GUERRILLERO will be used when transmitting

A. 124
Ñ. PALOMA
Ñ. CIELO
U. 419

B. PEZ
L. 644
O. AIO
V. 000-4

C. LUNA-LLENA
J. 35
P. 93.2
W. 00-61

D. CAIX
K. 17-23
Q. 51-33
X. 6790

E. 172
L. 43-4
R. 125
Y. PIANO

F. BORRO
M. 180-9
S. CAMPO
Z. CAIMAN

G. 840
N. 14-63
T. 340-5

att. 1 to UFKA-1
7 Feb. 1962
PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

: 19-120-19


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET
-2-

Places that they can deliver arms and equipment or other materials:

CAYRAL - (ALACRAN)   AVUILAS - (LOSA LLADA)   ROQUE KEY - (LOXMOTORA)

Code for numbers:

1. TIBURON 2. 963 3. 1,500 4. 10,000 5. CANON 6. JOSE 7. FIERRO

8. RATON 9: MOTOR 0. 21

Whenever making any phone calls they will use the following codes:

LLAMAR A SRA. MARIO - SALADO A ISARELA DE SAGA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO
ORTEGA EN MIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIVOS Y PADRE.

ESTOY HABLANDO - CAYO SAL
PINTANDO - ROQUE KEY
RECIBI CARTAS TAL DIA - PARA RECOJER

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

## PRE INTERNAL CODES

First Code they will use is the following:

Banda de 40 meters
7,509 kilocycles

Clave Leon
Agente - 13 (identified only as "Elidio" radio technician)

Broadcast time: 8:30 a.m. or 8:30 p.m. Las Villas

The code name to be used when transmitting will be GUERRILLERO

|     | A     | B       | C      | D      | E     | F     | G     | H     | I      | J      | K     | L      |
| --- | ----- | ------- | ------ | ------ | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ------ | ------ | ----- | ------ |
|     | P13   | 185     | ARADO  | 000-70 | DIA   | LIBRE | LOYA  | 90    | 000-23 | LUZ    | 00-14 | CAIMAN |
|     | M     | N       | O      | P      | Q     | R     | S     | T     | U      | V      | W     |        |
|     | 130-2 | LUNA    | 0023   | SAPO   | CARRO | 122-9 | 8-180 | 00-78 | GATO   | SILLON | 51-3  | 614    |
|     | X     | Y       | Z      | LL     |       |       |       |       |        |        |       |        |
|     | 33-1  | COTORRA | 109-18 | 803-3  |       |       |       |       |        |        |       |        |

CODE FOR NUMBERS:

1. 345-20. 2. 893-104 3. CANON -00 4. 657-6 5. 00-2150 6. ALCATRAZ

7. SICLON 8. 2000-17 9. 56-00 0. 34-18

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA

Second code to be used - they will use one code one day and the other the next:

Same band
Same frequency
Same time

Code's name "FUSCO" to indicate which code is being used
Agente - 13
Las Villas

The same code name GUERRILLO will be used when transmitting

| A. 124        | H. PALOMA | N. CIELO | U. 419    |
| ------------- | --------- | -------- | --------- |
| B. PEZ        | I. 654    | O. RIO   | V. 000-4  |
| C. LUNA-LLENA | J. 35     | P. 93.2  | W. 00-61  |
| D. CAIN       | K. 17-23  | Q. 51-33 | X. 6790   |
| E. 172        | L. 43-4   | R. 125   | Y. PIANO  |
| F. BURRO      | M. 180-9  | S. CAMPO | Z. CAIMAN |
| G. 840        | R. 14-63  | T. 340-5 |           |

PUNTO ENTRE PALABRA Y PALABRA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

-2-

Places that they can deliver arms and equipment or other materials:

CATSAL - (ALACRAN) ANGUILAS - (LUNA LLENA) ROQUE KEY - (LOCOMOTORA)

Code for numbers:

1. TIBURON 2. 963 3. 1,500 4. 10,000 5. CAÑON 6. JOSE 7. FIERRO

8. RATON 9. MOTOR 0. 21

Whenever making any phone calls they will use the following codes:

LLAMAR A SRA. MARCO - SALADO A ISABELA DE SACUA, LAS VILLAS DE PARTE DE JUAN ANTONIO ORTEGA EN MIAMI-AL HABLAR: RECUERDOS A NIÑOS Y PADRE.

ESTOY HABLANDO - CAYO SAL
PINTANDO - ROQUE KEY
RECIBI CARTAS TAL DIA - PARA RECOGER

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)