# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

FCS933
12.1.51

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF SECURITY

# REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION

TO:

CA

Vc - Duncan

3/23/68

DO NOT WRITE ABOVE THIS LINE

NAME (i name

Fogelio RODRICC 2 Lopez

DATE OF BIRTH

May 3, 1942

PLACE OF BIRTH

Favara

ALIASES AND NICKNAMES

S

previous check 9/15/67

SEX

ok

MARITAL STATUS

CITIZENSHIP-

Cuban

ADDRESS

OCCUPATION AND NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER

Resimated irst secretary of the
Cuban terrenent ission to the UN

ADDITIONAL IDENTIFYING DATA

#701

CONTROL: THIS REQUEST PLACED WITH THE OFFICE OF SECURITY BY:

DIVISION OR AGENCY

Visa office

REASON FOR REQUEST OR TYPE OF PROGRAM

DATE

NAME OR REQUESTING OFFICER

S AvcDuncan

v 31 - 7 Cuba

II. RESULTS OF THIS REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION:

NO RECORD

NO DEROGATORY INFORMATION

SECURITY INFORMATION ATTACHED

OTHER(se reverse side for)

SPECIAL

CHECKED BY

DATE

Rer41-4168

III FOR USE OF OFFICE OF SECURITY:

For information concerning Subject you are referred to CSCI-3/752,001 dated 27 June 1964, subject as above, and CSCI-316/20696-64 dated 25 August 1964, subject: Shipment of Explosives to Mexico, and to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

KTJ

26 April 1968

FILE IN 201-332665

24 APR 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATI

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

CLASSIFICCMESSAGE TOTAL COF 27

**SECRET** GROUP 1

(When Filled In)

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.

X-REF TO CS FILE NO.

FILE RID RETURN TO

FILE, VR Clips c/102 F12

SECRET 2516142 AUG 70 CITE DO BASE WASHINGTON, 2790/9698

DO BASE, NEW YORK INFO: DIRECTOR

AKULE/DOMOPS/AMROSE/WUSLAB 149698

REF: DO BASE WASHINGTON 2781 (~146109)

1. WUSLAB LUNCHED WITH ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665)
   AT BEAUX ARTS HOTEL, NEW YORK CITY, 21 AUGUST 1970.

2. RODRIGUEZ STATED HE INTERESTED OPINIONS NOT DOCUMENTS AND SUGGESTED WUSLAB/1 TALK TO PROMINENT US AND LATIN AMERICAN OFFICIALS IN GOVERNMENT, INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS, AND FOUNDATIONS TO DETERMINE WHAT IS IN THE WIND RE US POLICY TOWARD CUBA. RODRIGUEZ CONTENDED THAT THERE ARE MANY FACTORS INDICATING INCREASED U.S. PRESSURE ON CUBA. THIS SITUATION FORCES CUBA TO ACCOMODATE OWN REVOLUTION WITHIN RIGID SYSTEM OF INTERNATIONAL COMMUNISM AND AWAY FROM INDEPENDENT PRINCIPLES OF 26 JULY MOVEMENT. THUS CUBAN SOCIETY IS NOT THE JOYFUL ONE FIDEL PROMISED.

3. RODRIGUEZ GAVE WUSLAB/I LARGE HIBASTE INTER OFFICE ENVELOPE CONTAINING BOOK BY RAUL ROA, BROADSIDE BY VICTOR VACCARO, AND COPIES OF GRAMMA AND VERDE OLIVO.

4. RODRIGUEZ EXERTED NO PRESSURE ON WUSLAB/1 AND SEEMED SATISFIED WHEN WUSLAB/1 REMARKED THAT HE WOULD PROBABLY NOT GO NYC AGAIN FOR SOME

CS COPY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE SECRET IN 149698 PAGE 2

PAGE TWO DO BASE WASHINGTON 2790 SECRET
TIME. POUCHING DETAILS THIS MEETING.
5. FILE: 200-6-337/3 AND 201-332665. GP-1.
SECRET

![Image of the clock showing the time in dots]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

#

JOUS V. BURKE: GHD
WH/COG/OPS
WH/COG/OPS
4161/1325 25 November 1970

CABLE S. CRETARIAT LASSEMINATION

SECRET

DO BASE WASHINGTON 27 NOV 70
INFO DO BASE NEW YORK WH/MIAMI 0900587

CTYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE WUSLAB

1.  PLEASE ADVISE IF WUSLAB-1'S ANSTAFF CASE OFFICER ARRANGED TO TURN WUSIAB-1 OVER TO OTHER AMSTAFFER. ALSO WOULD APPRECIATE LATEST INFO ON WUSLAB-1'S NEXT ASSIGNMENT WITH HTBASTE.

2.  FILE: 201-332665 AND 200-6-337/3.

END OF MESSAGE

MICROFILMED
DEC 29 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.

AC/WH/COG

WHICLOPS

JOHN F. MARKHAM
C/DOI/2

D200-6-337/3

RELEASING OFFICER

CS COPY

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WIID

27 NOV 1970
201-332665

AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

TO:
Chief, WH Division

INFO:
Chief, DO Division

FROM:
Chief of Base, Washington

SUBJECT:
(AKULE TYPIC AMORSE WUSLAE WUSHARP DOMOPS
WUSHARP request for assistance

Action Required: For Your Information

Reference: DO BASE WASHINGTON 2989

1. On 14 December 1970, the undersigned visited WUSHARP
   at the latter's request and had the following discussion,
   WUSHARP asked whether we could use, WUSLAR/1 as a means of
   contacting Cuban officials for the purpose of establishing
   lines which could later be exploited by WUSHARP assets.
   I explained to WUSHARP that WUSLAB/1 had been instructed
   to adopt a passive role in relationship to his Cuban
   contacts, and to respond only to contact initiated by the
   Cubans. WUSHARP stated that they understand our point of view
   thoroughly.

2. At this meeting I briefed WUSHARP on the telephone
   call from a DGI representative cited in reference. I told
   WUSHARP that I would give them a memorandum on this as well
   as a copy of the PCQ on Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez (201-332665)
   in which they expressed definite interest.

![signature of Joseph G. Benson]

Joseph G. BENSON

Distribution:
Orig and 1 - C/WH
2 - C/DO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

ORIG: M. BURKE: mli
UNITI /COG/OPS
Exti 7111/1819
DATE: 27 MAY 1970

CABLE SECRETAPIAT DISSEMINATION
BY DE PER.

CONF: WH8 FILE IN CS FILE NO:

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 2

SECRET

INDEX NO INDEX RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

(classification)

(date and time filed) CITE DIRECTOR

(elite)
(reference mamber)
(pica)
DO BASE NEW YORK WH/MIAMI 20 10 51 Z 73
RYBAT TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE
REFS: A. DO BASE NEW YORK-7800 (IN-090897)
B. UNDW-3230, 15 ΜΛΥ 70

![abstract index] 038015

1. WITH ONE EXCEPTION ALL PERTINENT AVAILABLE
   INFORMATION ON ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ AVAILABLE AT HQS
   WAS FORWARDED TO ADDRESSEES WITH REF B. EXCEPTION CONCERNS
   TOP SECRET REPORTS FROM LNERGO ON RODRIGUEZ OPS INVOLVING
   EMPLOYEE OF SOUTH AFRICAN EMBASSY IN WASH D.C. AND POSSIBLE
   OP AGAINST STATE DEPARTMENT THROUGH THIS SOURCE OF HIS.

> BELIEVE CURRENT LNERGO HQS INTEREST IN RODRIGUEZ IS POSSIBLY
> DUE TO OUR RECENT PRODDING THEM FOR ANY INFO THEY MAY HAVE
> DEVELOPED ON HIM THROUGH THEIR INVESTIGATION THIS SOURCE..
> FYI: HQS IS ALSO CURRENTLY LOOKING AT RODRIGUEZ AS PRIORITY
> TARGET BECAUSE OF LARGE NUMBER OF PRESENT AND FORMER JKLANCE
> ASSETS WHO HAVE BEEN IN CONTACT WITH HIM (SEE REF B).

2. CONCUR TILAT SUBJECT BE MADE PRIORITY CASE FOR ANOTS.

![signature of releasing officer]
RELEASING OFFICER /CONTINUED/
CS COPY

![signatures of coordinating officers]
COORDINATING OFFICERS 25 May

SECRET GROUP 1
Excluded them automatic 201- 332665
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO. 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

ONG
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE

CADLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY:__________PER:__________

CONF:__________FILE, VR:


SECRET

PAGE 2

CITE DIRECTOR 038015

HOWEVER, SUGGEST THAT BASE MAY WISH TO DISCUSS POSSIBLE COORDINATED FOUR-PRONGED APPROACH TO RODRIGUEZ AS A TARGET. FIRST IS AMOT APPROACH. SECOND, JKLANCE DEFECTORS AND AGENTS WHO KNOW SUBJECT. THIRD, LNERGO ASSETS. FOURTH, LNERGO'S ABILITY TO ENTRAP SUBJECT AND HIS CURRENT ASSETS IN LEGALY ACTIONABLE ESPIONAGE ACTIVITIES AND APPLY CARROT OR STICK ULTIMATUM. CAN BASE ASCERTAIN WHAT, IF ANY, ACCESS AGENTS LNERGO NOW HAS NEXT TO RODRIGUEZ? EXTENT OF LOCAL LNERGO KNOWLEDGE OF RODRIGUEZ OPS IN WASH, D.C.? ALSO, CAN BASE ASCERTAIN IF LNERGO "TARCET STUDY" IS FOR PURPOSE OF DEFECTION, RECRUITMENT IN PLACE, OR DOUBLE AGENT OP?

3. FOR MIAMI: PLEASE PROCESS AMOT STUDY SOONEST, ADVISE WHICH OF JKLANCE ASSETS MENTIONED REF B STUDY ON RODRIGUEZ CAN BE UTLIZED THIS CASE FOR ASSESSMENT OR APPROACH, AND MAKE SUBJECT AND HIS FAMILY PRIORITY REQUIREMENT FOR NEXT AMANVIL DEBRIEFING.

/CONTINUED/


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIESI

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

# SECRET

PAGE 3

4. FILE: 201-332665.

END OF MESSAGE

WIH/COG/Comment: *Reference, attached, concerns FBI request for AMOT support in preparing target study, and probably a defection attempt, against a DGI officer stationed at the CMUN.

WILLIAM V./BROE
C/WHD

GORDON JORGENSEN
C/DO

DO/I/B2

JAMES E. FLANNERY
C/WH/COG

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES (22)
ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN BY
SECRET
(When Filled In)
GROUP 1
2
6
7
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO.
BY:
REF TO CS FILE NO.
DISSEM BY DDP
PER
FILE RID
RETURN TO
PAGE 1 OF 2
BRANCH
ACTION UNIT c/WH/E.8 FILE, VR c/2/70 c/DOA DDP ADDE estdo c/cl C/F/2
ACTION NO. 245

NYDO
SECRET 262038Z MAY 70 CITE DO BASE NEW YORK 7800
DIRECTOR, WH/MIAMI
RYBAT TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE

1. FOLL FOR WOMACE INFO ONLY.

2. WHILE RECOGNIZING THAT JKLANCE PROGRAM TO UNCOVER
   RELATIVES AND FRIENDS OF DGI OFFICIALS ASSIGNED ABROAD HAS
   NOT AS YET PROGRESSED TO EXAMINATION OF DGI OFFICIALS IN
   NEW YORK, LOCAL LNERGO INFORMALLY HAS ASKED IF SURVEY COULD
   SE MADE ASAP OF ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665),
   CMUN FIRST SECRETARY AND DGI OFFICER. LOCAL LNERGO HAS
   RECEIVED DIRECTIVE FROM ITS HDQS TO COMPILE DETAILED
   REPORT ON RODRIGUEZ AND HIS ACTIVITIES AND FORWARD "TARGET
   STUDY" TO LNERGO HDQS. BECAUSE OF PREVIOUS AMANVIL/1 AND
   OTHER REPORTING ON RODRIGUEZ, AND BECAUSE HE NOT NOW MARRIED,
   LNERGO HDQS APPARENTLY FEELS HE SHOULD BE PRIME TARGET FOR
   APPROACH. LOCAL LNERGO QUITE WILLING INFORMALLY COORDINATE
   ACTIVITY WITH BASE. THUS, WOULD APPRECIATE WHATEVER INFO
   ADDEES CAN PROVIDE AS TO ANY LEADS TO RODRIGUEZ VIA RELATIVES
   OR FRIENDS WHO MAY BE IN U.S. AT PRESENT.

3. RODRIGUEZ BORN 3 MAY 42 HAVANA. FORMERLY MARRIED TO

CS COPY
SECRET

201-332665


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET IN 090877 PAGE 2/2

PAGE 2 DO BASE NEW YORK 7800 SECRET

ESTHER GAVILAN NOGALES, DPOB NOT KNOWN. SON EDUARDO ABOUT
SIX YEARS OLD, RESIDES CUBA CITY NOT KNOWN. PARENTS NAMES
NOT KNOWN, BUT FATHER REPORTEDLY LONG TIME MEMBER PSP.
RODRIGUEZ PERMANENT CUBAN ADDRESS LISTED SEPTEMBER 67 AS
CALLE 30, VEDADO, HAVANA.

4. BASE JUDGES THAT PROMPT PROVISION OF SURVEY DATA
   INFORMALLY TO LOCAL L'NERGO WOULD BOTH ENCOURAGE ACTION
   AGAINST RODRIGUEZ AND PERSUADE LOCAL L'NERGO TO DEEPEN
   COOPERATION CONCERNING THIS AND OTHER OPS AGAINST
   LOCAL CUBAN TARGET. THUS REQUEST SOONEST ACTION BY HQS.

5. FILE 201-332665. NO INDEX. GP-1.

SECRET

SECRET

BID


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

FBI doc.
21 May 70 (NY)
Re: Cuban Mission to the United
Nations
no Bufile given

FBI doc.
11 May 70 (NY)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
no Bufile given

FBI doc.
7 May 70 (NY)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
no Bufile given.

FBI doc.
4 May 70 (Wash)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
Bufile: (NI) 105-130905


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

27 APR 1970

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation

ATTENTION: Mr. D. J. Erennan

SUBJECT: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, Cuban
Intelligence Officer

1. Reference is made to your previous correspondence concerning Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, First Secretary of the Cuban Mission to the United Nations (CMUN) and an officer of the Cuban General Directorate of Intelligence (DGI). Rodriguez is the CUIS Case Officer for Jennifer Enid Miles, a South African patiocal, now under investigation by the Bureau. Your most recent memorandum on Rodriguez and Miles was dated 26 January 1970.

2. On 30 January 1970, there was a liaison discussion about Miles and Rodriguez at which time your representatives advised that your Bureau planned to interview Miles, on an appropriate pretext, and that there were signs that she might be susceptible to "doubling". We recognize that the Miles Rodriguez case is an internal security responsibility of the Bureau but, to assist us in our efforts to assess Rodriguez as a DGI officer, it would be appreciated if you would provide us with the results of your interview with Miles as well as personality information about him that she may acquire in the future.

3. We would also like to have your comments about considering Rodriguez as a potential penetration of the DGI in Cuba. There is the possibility that Miles might be used to assist in approaching Rodriguez if, for example, she has refused to cooperate as a double agent or later if internal security considerations warrant an approach to Rodriguez.

FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR PLANS:

Signed: Raymond G. Rosca
James ANGLETON

CIOL-00061-70

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

SECRET

- 2 -

DDP/WH/COG/OPS/JBurke:jaf

21 April 1970

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - Addressee FILE: 201-860915
1 - C/CI
1 - WH/COG/OPS

SECRET

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

EXTRACT AND CROSS REFERENCE

DOC. SYMBOL NO.

UMSA-5697.

DATE OF

29 Apr 70, Alt. S

FILE CLASSIFICATION OF F

200--237/3

DOC.. SUBJECT

Transmittal of WUSLAB Contact report, Alay-April 1970

SOURCE INFORMATION

SOURCE CRYPTOΛΙΜ

DATE OF INFO.

WUSLAB/1

Meeting on 10 Apr 70; report dated 13 Apr.

EVALUATION

TEXT OF EXTRACT (Also cite dos: distribution. Pissen. No., etc. if applicable)

2. Production: WUSLAB/1 said that Jose Raul Viera Linares had phoned him at his home at about 1100 on 8 April. Viera said that a friend had described to him an acquaintance who had had an eye problem similar to USLAB/1 (or words to that effect), and that Viera now realized the seriousness of the case and that WUSLAB/1 would not be able to travel. Viera said that the chances were now remote that he would be returning to New York. A friend of his named "Rogelio" would contact WUSLAB/1. He did not say when or where, but it would be when circumstances permit. WUSLAB/1 asked if Viera might be assigned to another foreign country. Viera did not deign to answer this question.

3. I asked WUSLAB/1 what he considered the possibilities of recruiting Viera were. He thought an important factor would be Viera's liking of comfort and security. He would not be motivated by money, but he did like good living. He also probably did not like living in Havana, and would not like to stay there for a very long period. W/1 thought that if Viera câme out to a country such as Spain that contact with him could easily be developed. In the United States Viera was on his guard. Also in the United States Viera did not have high level contacts with the local government, whereas in other countries he would be expected to have such contacts. Some of those contacts might then be also in contact with U.S. officials and you could get a cross-check on Viera. I told WUSLAB/1 that we would finish the PCQ fora on Viera the next time we get together.

Indicate The Subject, Project Or 201 File No. In Which This Form Is To Be Filed.

SUBJECT OF 201 (Last. First, Middle)

201-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

2. RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4 DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. D. EVALUATION'

9. ANALYST 6. DATE PROCESSED 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE.. 13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGEL 10
201-332665
SEX M COB ?
019-005-042
UNDA-04862A01
14 APR 70
CIT ? +19-500
OCC ? P3
MBR OF CUBAN UN MISSION AS OF 10 APR 70

UFA R 7004230770

FILE IN 201-332665

15. FILE THIS. FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITION9.
C-87
SECRET (7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SECRET 102113Z APRIL 78 CITE DO BASE WASHINGTON 2574
DO BASE/NEW YORY INFO DIRECTOR
ISOLOG PERUMEN WUSLAB.
REF: DO PASE/NEL YORK 7515(IN058816)

10A060596

1. JOSE PAUL VIERA LINADES PHONED WUSLAB/1 MORDING 8 APSIL. SAID MOST LIKELY WOULD NOT BE RETURNING TO NEW YORK. UNDERSTOOD "ATURE WUSLAS/I'S HEALTH WOULD PREVENT HIS TRAVELLING. HIS FRIEND "ROCELIO" WOULD CONTACT WUSLAB/1. GAVE NO DETAILS FUTURE CONTACT.

2. VIERA DID NOT ANSWER WUSLAR/I'S QUESTION AS TO WHETHER WE WOULD BE ASSIGNED ANOTHER POST OUTSIDE CUSA.

3. LOCAL LNERGO ECLIEVES "ROGELIO" MAY DE ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, FIRST SECRETARY CUSAN PERMANENT MISSION.

4. FILE: 231-322053 AND. 200-6-337/3. GP-1.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

FBI doc.

30 Mar. '70 (NY)

Re: Joanna Faith Haas

no Bufile given


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# S.E.C.R.E.T

ORDER:

10. Chief of Division, WH/AMMI

FROM: Chief of Base, New York

SUBJECT: A/NV/10.525/WH/RYBAT -- Information from A/NV/1 on Cuban Personnel

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI, extract to appropriate 201 filed, and per paragraph 7

REFERENCES:
A. DIRMOM 010308
B. DO NY/New York 7379
C. DO MSD/New York 7575

1. Transmitted herewith as an attachment to this dispatch are one copy each for WH/CCG and WH/MM/1 of the A/NV/1 debriefing results on CUN and DGI Center personnel and activities in New York. This information was obtained by FUNNVALL Caving a short meeting 22 March 1970 (the information on Teofilo ACOSTA and "TEO" was obtained jointly by BRIMROUGH and HIFIREAU). Other information was forwarded via Reference B. Information on Pedro Luis Diaz Divia (01-084576), CI Third Secretary and DGI officer, also was cabled separately via Reference C.

2. Copies of the attached have been passed by FIGALAN to the local LIMECO office. "FIGAZIN" is the local code name used between Sup and LIMECO to designate A/NV/1. As addressees will note, the attached sheet on FIGALAN makes no mention of the LIMECO address; rather than make such mention a matter of record within LIMECO FIGALAN merely passed this information to LIMECO orally 23 March.

/continued

Attachments:
As Stated, H/W

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Chief, WH/CCG, w/a cc of attachments, H/W
2 - COS, WH/MM/1, w/a cc of attachments, H/W
Chief, DD Division, w/o attachments

![GROUP 1 stamp]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER

UMH-4041

CLASSIFICATION

SECRET
RYBAT

DATE

25 March 1970

WCS FILE NUMBER

19-3-188/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# DISPATCH

2.  Re the had ted with AMWHIV/1 on this brief, the attached information is unusually slim. Seems of continued interest concern PRIMRO and the forthcoming outback in far activity, not only here but elshere.

3.  Re the attached information on Jose Raul VIME: Lianres (501-33933), CTN Com officer, USNPO told the writer that VIME's contact within Random House (publishing firm) is one Jason EPSTEIN (no further bio data available).

4.  Re the attached information on Fadiro “MARIUS” Lesmes (201-300010), First secretary and PID officer, and his "female friends", Limedo told the writer that one known romantic involvement is one

(Miss) Joanna Faith SHUBIS
DOB: 1947
POB: Beloved U.S.A.
CIT: U.S.
CEO: General (term for intern), General Shirel Hospital, New York City.

This young lady, who is part of all catch, is the daughter of a New York taxi driver. She visited Cuba in 1969. From technical side of the CSO is aware that IGI Center Chief Orlando Gutierrez (201-880008). First Secretary, knows of PAT (one morning PAT placed the young woman with Miss there). Limedo believes that Remigio's interest in FALS is romantic only; et oposed to PIRO's interest in Milered Rangum Ortiz, per the attached chest.

5.  Re war-name "AGIO" per the attached sheet, FIGLIAN believes that AMWHIV/1 my be mistaken in the year "AGOC" was here as part of the Cuban Delegation to the UN General Assembly; as related below, there are possibilities for "AWAY" in both 1967 and 1968. In 1967 there are the following personalities who could be identical with "AGIO":

A. Joaquin Camilo GIMA Morco, born 26 August 1937 in Havana;

B. Gonzalo DIAZ Diaz, born 25 November 1945 in Pinar del Rio;

C. Pedro Juan BENUM Veloso, born 6 March 1933 in las Villas;

D. Carlos E. ANTELO Perez, born 15 January 1943 in Pinar del Rio;

E. Gonzalo DEPRO Solo (201-720312), born 10 January 1933 in Havana.

In 1968 there are the following personalities who could be identical with "AGIO":

F. Eduardo ARIOZ Agoro (201-340100), born 21 March 1933 in Las Villas;

G. Gonzalo GONZALEZ Custo, born 15 November 1942 in Havana;

H. Crescencio E. PALENZUELA Paez, born 14 September 1941 in Havana;


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

I. Alvaro P. TRUJILLO Tompson, born 5 December 1913 in Oriente;

J. Tomas VINAS Zocbal, born 25 July 1903 in Havana;

K. Julian Tomas Rizo, born 1 September 1944 in Havana.

Others members of the INS, Delegations for 1957 and 1960 we have been able to eliminate because they are either not FDI personnel and/or INTERIM then sufficiently to rule out the possibility that they are identical with "SIGO". If the true name corresponds to the true name at all, then it would appear that the two most likely candidates for "SIGO" are Eduardo Amith Igero (201-010129) and Carlos AMADO Foren. The latter was born in 1957; AMIOX here in 1960. We lean toward Antonio.

7. Should addressees be able to shed any light on the true identity of "SIGO" we would be most interested. Even if this is not possible, presumably we will know eventually who he is should his assignment here materialize.

8. The attached sheets should be extracted to the appropriate 201 files. To facilitate this the 201 numbers are listed below:

Orlando FERRARA Gonzalez (201-248505)
Pedro Luis Primo Mirin (201-044976)
Jose Raul YIPES Linares (201-030555)
Orlando PRENDES Gutierren (201-300002)
Ricardo ALARCON Quesada (201-027000)

Howard G. FICKLIN

![document footer]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

UP DI-4841
20 March 70

7. Recruitment Targets. Subjectively, Source considers that
   the most vulnerable of the CMUN personnel are Rogelio RODRIGUEZ
   Lopez, Ambassador ALARCON, and Pedro Amado MORALES Carballo...
   RODRIGUEZ because he likes the ladies and the material things in
   life; ALARCON because of his strained relationship with PRENDES;
   and MORALES because he is basically a good sort and a realistic
   person. As stated, this is subjective reasoning on Source's part.
   TRICOSTA RODRIGUEZ
   755744

8. Replacement Personnel. With VIERA and PINERO leaving soon,
   there is talk in Havana about assigning one Teofilo ACOSTA here as
   a replacement for one or the other. ACOSTA is a negro in his early
   30s and has served in several African posts for the DGI (including
   Tanzania and Mozambique). ACOSTA has been protected by Manuel
   PINEIRO Losada, former DGI chief, but is disliked by most MINREX
   types who know him. Source described ACOSTA as a sly and suspicious
   person who would not hesitate to report on anyone, including his
   friends and neighbors. ACOSTA is believed to have been deeply in-
   volved in various "wars of liberation" in Africa. ACOSTA was
   originally under consideration as a replacement for Francisco V
   PORTELA, the Prensa Latina chief in New York, but it was finally
   decided to leave PORTELA here as there were advantages to his being
   a U.S. citizen.

Source also mentioned that one "AGEO" (a war name; real name not
known to Source) was under consideration for assignment here. Source
said that "AGEO" was a member of the Cuban Delegation to the 22nd
UN General Assembly in 1967 (date possibly not correct). This "AGEO"
was in charge of the purge within MINREX in 1967 which resulted in
the ouster of some 300 persons regarded as homosexuals, counter-
revolutionaries, or incompetents.

NDA-4841
26 Mar 70


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 2. RI FILE NO.                        |                                |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                        |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
| 10. DISSEMINATED IN                   | 11. DATE                       |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665
SEX M DOB ?
200-009-052
UNDA-04834A01
24 MAR 70
P2
CIT ?
OCC ?
CURRENTLY IN NEW YORK AS OF MAR 70 AS MBR OF CMUN

UFA

R 7004022074

FILE IN 201-332665

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET
(7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

# NDRIGUEZ

PRIOR TO FILING

1. Fill in Sect 2 on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, unless it records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

TO: ACTION BRANCH

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM:

RID/

21.0 CASO

EIE. 1250 CT-7

PROPER FILE NO

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES

FILL IN SECTION I ON BACK IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

|     | TO            | ROOM NO. | DATE               | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| :-: | ------------- | :------: | ------------------ | ----------------- |
| 1.  | C/WH/C        |          | RECEIVED FORWARDED | g                 |
| 4.  | Halst         |          | 13 au              | h                 |
| 6.  | Murer         |          | 13 au              | k                 |
| 8.  | 10/1/2 Bellic |          |                    | Rdg               |
| 9.  | Do/KT         |          | 21 ap 70           | y                 |
| 12. | Def/F         |          |                    |                   |
| 17. | RID/FI        |          |                    |                   |

![MICROFILMED APR 2 1970 DOC MICRO. PER. Stamp]

TRACE REQUEST

ABSTRACT

INDEX 3

FILE TITLE

FILE NUMBER/PRIMARY CODE

200-9-52

DOCUMENT DATE

24 MAR 70

SECRET

DOCUMENT NUMBER

UNDA 04834


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

# DISPATCH

SECRET

Chief, Vat/COG

Chief of Station; WH/HIANE, Chief, Domestic Operations

Chief of Base, New York

TYTICANKROSE/DONJI'S

(Transmittal of Cuban Official Presence Listing for New York

Action Required: FYI

REF: DIRECTOR 018607.

1. During a visit to the Base on 20 March 1970 the Headquarters
   officer mentioned in paragraph 3 of the reference requested that the
   Base pouch to Headquarters a listing of all currently-assigned personnel
   of the Cuban UN Mission. Attached herewith for WH/COG and MI/MIANI
   are one copy cach of the monthly listing prepared by the local LNERGO
   Cuban Squad showing each CMUN official and his dependents, (the latter
   may be here or back in Cuba; changes are not recorded in this category).

2. This listing is as of 3 March 1970; it remains valid with the
   exception of Jorge REYES Vega, Second Secretary and DGI officer, who
   departed PCS on 7 March.

3. NOTE: The "Pct." number indicates in which police precinct
   each CMUN official resides.

Attachment:

As stated - Para 1 - h/w.

Distribution:

*   Chief, WH/COG, w/att. h/w.
*   Chief, WH/MIAMI, w/att.h/w.
*   Chief, DO, w/o att.

Howard G. FIGALAN

![MICROFILED APR 2 1970]

![Escrita tron sobretic]

UNDA-4834

SECRET

23 March, 1970

19-500 200-9-52


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

Cuban Mission to the United Nations
6 East 67th Street
New York, New York
March 3, 1970

ALARCON QUESADA, RICARDO
Position
Residence
Phone
Dependents

19
Ambassador
1175 York Ave., Apt. 6D, NYC
PL 2-0123
MARGARITA PEREZ, wife;
MARGARITA ALARCON, daughter;
BLANCA MAZA PEREZ, mother-in-law

ALOM GIL, JULIO
Position
Residence
Phone
Dependents

17
First Secretary
Cuban Mission to the UN
251 E. 51st St., Apt. 10L
593-0480
MARINELA LARRAMENDI RODES, wife,
born 4/10/36; LENA ROSA ALOM
LARRAMENDI, daughter, born
11/22/64; LAURA ESTHER ALOM
LARRAMENDI, daughter, born
5/11/67

DE SOUZA, ANTONIO
Position
Residence
Phone
Dependents

110
Adviser
83-10 35th Ave., Apt. 6U,
Jackson Heights, NY
TW-9-9232
ALICIA MATEOS DE SOUZA, wife;
ANA MARIA, daughter, born 2/7/54;
ALICIA ANTONIA, daughter, born
6/23/51

DRAKE CAPIRO, PABLO
Position
Residence
Phone
Dependents

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
CONSUELO HORTA LARRINAGA, wife

FRANCO GONZALEZ, RUBEN RAFAEL
Position
Residence
Phone

19
Attache
370 E. 69 St., Apt. 5K

MICROFILMED
APR 2 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

NY 105-31084

GELABERT MARTINEZ, JUSTO
CESAR
Position
Residence (201-839221)
Phone

JIMENEZ PADRON, FLORENTINO
Position
Residence (201-850 953)
Phone
Dependents

MORALES CARBALLO, PEDRO A
Position (201-850951)
Residence
Phone
Dependents

PEREIRA GONZALEZ, ORLANDO F.!
Position
Residence (201-848005)
Phone
Dependent

PEREZ ALFONSO, ROLANDO
Position
Residence (201-836757)
Phone
Dependent

to be replied
by Rafael CADALSO
Bordomo -50416

-2-

SECRET

Pct.

17
Attache
61-15 97th St.
Elmhurst, NY, Apt. 15M
699-5526

10
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
AGUEDA MARTINEZ GARCIA, wife,
born 4/15/37

17
Counsellor, CMUN
400 E. 55th St., Apt. 16
593-2431
MARIA ANGELINA DE LOS REYES, wife,
born 2/2/41; MARIANELA MORALES DE
LOS REYES, daughter, born 11/10/64;
PEDRO CESAR MORALES DE LOS REYES,
son, born 7/31/69; ISABEL BERMUDEZ
DIEZ, born 4/18/07

19
First Secretary
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
MARIA DE LOS ANGELES LOPEZ CANAS,
wife, 3/1/47

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250
MARIA DE LAS MARTINEZ LARA, wife


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

NY 105-31084

PINERO AIRIN, PEDRO LUIS
Position (201-
Residence 824376)
Phone
Dependent

PRENDES GUTIERREZ, ORLANDO
Position (201-
Residence 330002)
Phone
Dependent

REYES GOICOCHEA, RAUL
Position
Residence (201-859874)
Phone

RENTS VECA, JORGE E.
Position (201-
Residence 816437)
Phone
Dependent

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
Position
Residence (201-332665)
Phone

SANTANA FRAIZ, MIGUEL M.'
Position (201-
Residence 816439)
Phone

SANTIAGO HUMET, ROBERTO
Position
Residence (201-859875)
Phone

Pct.

19
Third Secretary
401 E. 74th St., Apt. 5K, NYC
861-2468
JUANA CRUZ FERNANDEZ, wife

19
First Secretary
201 E. 66th St., Apt. 7H, NYC
249-0824
TERESITA FERNANDEZ ARANGO DE
PRENDES, wife

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250

20
Second Secretary
15 W. 72nd St., Apt. 17H, NYC
787-0544
MARIELA REYES, daughter

110
First Secretary
Park Plaza Apartments
61-15 97th St., Elmhurst, NY,
Apt. 15M
699-5526

19
Attache
345 E. 81st St., NYC, Apt. 5J
UN 1-5862

19
Attache
Cuban Mission to the UN
6 E. 67 St., NYC
UN 1-5250

- 3 -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

6. DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

13: TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665
C19-006-133/03
SEX M DO8 ?
UNDA-04764
12 FEB 70-
CIT CUBA
OCC 1ST SECY
< USA, NY, NY-
SERVES AS THE OFFICIAL CMUN/DGI CONTACT W/
JOSE MARIA QUIMPER, A LEFTIST PERU NATL EMPL
IN THE DEPT OF POLI AND SECURITY COUNCIL
AFFAIRS UN SECRETARIAT. APPEARS HANDLE MUCH
OF CMUN BUSINESS W/LOCAL PRENSA LATINA
OFFICE

R 7002190005

FILE IN 201-332665

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

1.  File St. 2. of bed. Det bl and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, it beyond significant action taken or comments regarding preservation.

FROM:

KIDS/D

| TO    | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | OFFICER INITIALS |
| ----- | -------- | ------------- | ---------------- |
| W//lz |          | 18 FEB        | *illegible*      |
| W//lp |          | 18 FEB        | *illegible*      |
| 4.    |          |               |                  |
| ENNIS |          |               | File(CB)         |
| 5.    |          |               |                  |
| BURKE |          |               | B. Q             |
| 6.    |          |               |                  |
| Kathy |          |               | NM/R/GB          |
| 8.    |          |               |                  |
| 9.    |          |               |                  |
| 10.   |          |               |                  |
| 11.   |          |               |                  |
| 12.   |          |               |                  |
| 13.   |          |               |                  |
| 14.   |          |               |                  |
| 15.   |          |               |                  |
| 16.   |          |               |                  |
| 17.   |          |               |                  |

copy to Micro File
RYBAT

MICROFILMED
FEB 17 1970
DOC. MICRO. SER.

To all addressees
Fill in section only if appropriate
Contents

--MI/ITT

| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT INDEX |
| ------------- | -------------- |
| X             | X              |

File Title 19-6-133/3

12 FEB '70

UND: 04764

SECRET

[Figure: Image of form metadata including date, code, and identifiers]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

# SECRET

Chief, WH/COG

COS, PE/MIAMI, Chief, DO

Acting Chief of Base, New York
Information Provided by AMANVIL/1 on Cuban UN Mission Personnel

ACTION REQUIRED: Extract to appropriate 201 files
REFERENCE: UNDA-4763, 10 February 1970

1. Transmitted herewith as an attachment to this dispatch are one copy each for C/WH/COS and COS/ME/MIAMI of the AMANVIL/1 debriefing results on CMUN and DGI Center personnel in New York. The information on Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez, DGI Center Chief, and Esperanza BALLESTER Fernandez was obtained by RETHOURN during meetings 26 January 1970 and 31 January respectively (some of the information on PRENDES was forwarded via DO BASE/REW YORK 7403). The remainder of the information was obtained by FIGALAN during a meeting 1 February. Other information obtained by RETHOURN and FIGALAN from AMANVIL/1 on local subjects was forwarded by the referenced dispatch.

2. Copies of the attached have been passed by FIGALAN to the local LHERGO office. "ELGIN" is the local code name used between this Base and LNERGO to designate AMANVIL/1.

3. The attached should be extracted to the appropriate 201 files. To facilitate this the 201 numbers are listed below:

Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201-330002)
Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin (201-824376)
Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz (201-810439)
Jose Raul VIERA Minares (201-328953)
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665)
Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez (201-848505)
Victoria FERNANDEZ Padilla (201-340051)
Esperanza BALLESTER Fernandez (201-812436)

All but FERNANDEZ and BALLESTER are DGI personnel

Attachment: H/W
Debriefing Results (5)

Howard G. FIGALAN

Distribution:
LATT 2-WH/COG w/att 2-WH/MIAMI w/att 2-DO w/o att

UNDA-4764
11 February 1970

SECRET/RYBAT
19-0-133/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ALGOR" ON 31 JANUARY

AND 1 FEBRUARY 1970

1. Orlando PRENDES Cutierres, First Secretary and DGI Center Chief. PRENDES is a highly intelligent and capable DGI officer who has some nine years experience in his trade. He is well-liked and respected by Hamuel PINEIRO Losada ("Barba Roja"), former Chief of the DGI, and Ramon OROZA Naveran ("Demetrio"), currently Chief of U.S. operations in DGI Headquarters, particularly by the latter. PRENDES appears to be a fanatical revolutionary. He also is well-liked and respected by the staff of the DGI Center here, and he in turn is quick to single out each for praise--with the notable exception of Orlando PEREIRA Gonzales, DGF officer and First Secretary. PRENDES seldom mentions PEREIRA, and Source concludes that he does not like or have much use for PEREIRA.

2. PRENDES' dislike for both Permanent Representative Ricardo ALARCON Quesada and Mrs. ALARCON is growing daily, and ALARCON's recall has become a fixation with PRENDES. While PRENDES is basically modest, his vanity emerges when discussing his own professional ability and accomplishments. Outwardly, he is anti-American, referring to Americans frequently as "nuestros enemigos". However, he is enjoying his tour in New York and obviously admires certain aspects of U.S. life. He has a large collection of American records, likes American clothes, etc.

3. PRENDES' wife, Teresita FERNANDEZ Arango, is scheduled to return home to Cuba permanently in June 1970. PRENDES plans to do the same in December 1970, after the next UN General Assembly ends. His two year tour will be up in September 1970. Teresita FERNANDEZ is popular with the CMUN personnel.

4. Source stated that PRENDES' father was uneducated (believed to be a fisherman), and his mother is a directress of a school in Matanzas. Source considers PRENDES a much more likeable type than the average Cuban intelligence officer. PRENDES is interested in the CMUN and its job as a whole, unlike his predecessor as Chief of the DGI Center, Chafik Homero SAKER Zenni ("an animal", according to Source).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

# INFORMATION CHAINED FEG SOURCE "ELGER" ON 1 FERUZAY 1970

1.  Pécéo Liss PINERO Eirin, Third Scorciary. PIRERO is the
    ravorite of Bar Correr Condo PAS Gutierrez,
    First Secretary, because PINERO iss hard-working and "audacious".
    Source believes that PINSKO is the DGI Center officer
    specializing in the händling of Cuban ezite agent operations;
    PINERO. "disappears" from the CHUN JOP 2 to 3 days at a time,
    and Source speculated that PINERO might be traveling to Miami
    to contact DGI agents. PINERO also continues to be active
    at night. in lower Manhattan, and Source thought thật hơ
    might be either making now contacts amongst youth/student
    circles in Greenwich and East Villages, or secing existing
    contacts in those locations; this, of course, is only
    speculation on Source's part.

2.  PINERO is currently in a state of mental depression. Not only
    has he been working too hard, he also received a "Dear John"
    letter from Lohania Josefina ARUCA Alonso, who had been a
    member of the Cuban UNGA Delegation in Fall 1969. This letter
    was hand-carried from Cuba to New York City in January 1970
    by Esperanza BALLESTER Fernandez, a Cuban delegate to the Ninth
    Governing Council Session of the UN Development Programme:
    (PINERO is divorced from his wife in Cuba, and has two children
    by her; he and ARUCA had been planning marriage). Source
    thought that PINERO might return to Cuba soon for these reasons,
    as he has been here already for a little over two years.

3.  According to comments made by Ramon OROZA Naveran, Chief of
    U.S. operations, DGI Headquarters, PINERO and Jose Raul VIERA
    Linares are considered by OROZA to be the two DGI officers
    here in the most danger of being declared persona non grata
    by the U. S. Government.

SOURCE: AMHUL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "GISANT" ON 1 FEBRUARY 1970

1.  Miguel (Manuel) SANTANA Puig, Attache. SANTANA's chief DGI duty is the purchase of electrical and electronic instruments and components, mainly for shipment back to Cuba. SANTANA is an accomplished electrician and technician and is particularly knowledgeable re technical television matters. After Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin, Third Secretary and DGI officer, SANTANA is the favorite of DGI Center Chief Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez. SANTANA has done the electrical and technical work on the CMUN closed circuit television and alarm systems, and PRENDES has praised his work highly in this regard. Source thinks that some other Cuban Embassies abroad may install similar systems, and opined that the materials for same would be procured here by the CAUN and pouched either directly to the particular Embassy or via Havana. SANTANA would handle such procurement.

2.  Jose Raul VIERA Linares, Counsellor. Source could offer little new information on VIERA and his intelligence activities. VIERA, not overly intelligent, has intellectual pretensions and likes to give people the impression that he is cultured and very well-read. VIERA has the responsibility within the CAUN (and the DGI Center) for handling U.S. citizens who wish to travel to Cuba; he handled the volunteers of the Venceremos Brigada who went to Cuba to assist in the sugar cane harvest. According to comments made by Ramon OROZA Naveran, Chief of U.S. operations, DGI Headquarters, VIERA and Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin are considered by OROZA to be the two DGI officers here in the most danger of being declared persona non grata by the U.S. Government; VIERA would be expelled mainly because of his involvement with U.S. citizens as indicated above.

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, First Secretary. Source could offer little new information on RODRIGUEZ; the latter has always been very reserved with Source and seldom talks with him. Source is aware that RODRIGUEZ serves as the "official" --CMUN/DGI contact with Jose Maria QUIMPER, a leftist Peruvian national employed in the Department of Political and Security Council Affairs, UN Secretariat. RODRIGUEZ also appears to handle much of the CMUN business with the local Prensa Latina office. As far as contacts go, RODRIGUEZ concentrates--at the UN at least--on Latin Americans.

Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez, First Secretary. PEREIRA is not overly liked within the CMUN. He is servile to and afraid of DGI Center Chief Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez. Whereas PRENDES has remarked to Source in favorable terms about all his other Center staff personnel, PRENDES has seldom mentioned PEREIRA at all. Source concludes that PRENDES does not like or have much use for PEREIRA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "MAGIN" ON 1 FEBRUARY 1970

1. Mrs. Victoria FERNÁNDEZ Padilla, newly arrived Attache at the CMUN, was the subject of a quib passed to your office 23 January 1970. Source "MAGIN" provided the following information on FERNANDEZ on 1 February 1970.

2. FERNANDEZ will stay in New York City for probably about a three month period; while here she will be working on documents and files at the CMUN. In Havana, she is employed in the documents section of the International Organizations Directorate of MINREX. She had been scheduled to come here for three months for the same purpose in Fall 1969 during the XXIV UN General Assembly, but Cuban Permanent Representative ALARCON had objected so her travel was postponed. FERNANDEZ is billeted in the apartment (5 M, 220 East 63rd Street) previously occupied by Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez, Attache; GELABERT is staying temporarily with Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, First Secretary, in his apartment in Queens, 15 M, 61-15 97th Street, Elmhurst. Neither GELABERT nor RODRIGUEZ is happy over this turn of events. FERNANDEZ is married, but Source docs not know anything about her husband.

3. FERNANDEZ is fat and ugly; she does not dress well. She is a mulatto. She is not known for her intelligence quotient. She has a somewhat rigid personality and does not get along well with peoplo, male or female. She is convinced that she is discriminated against because she is part negro. FERNANDEZ considers herself as a revolutionary but does not seem to understand politics and ideologies. She takes herself extremely scriously. Within MINREX she is a "loner"; older than most of her female professional associates, she has nothing in common with them and her overbearing attitude is offensive to them. Source believes that it is almost a foregone conclusion that FERNANDEZ and Permanent Representative ALARCON will have a run-in, based on their respective personalities.

4. FERNANDEZ' brother, Oscar FERNANDEZ Padilla, is Vice-Minister for Labor Justice, Ministry of Labor. He is an "old guard" Communist, and Victoria FERNANDEZ is thus linked in some minds to the out-of-favor old guard herself.

5. In previous years Victoria FERNANDEZ has served as an instructress in the civil defense program. She has enjoyed being in a position of authority over those normally, outside the training program, her superiors in position and ability.

6. She has no known intelligence/security affiliations, but Source believes that she would be happy to collaborate with the DGI or DSE if so requested.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELGIN" ON 26 JANUARY 1970

Esperanza BALLESTER Fernandez, Cuban Government Official

1. Esperanza BALLESTER Fernandez, born 12 March 1927 in Havana, attended the Ninth Session of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Governing Council in New York City 19-27 January 1970.

2. At the present time BALLESTER is Chief, Technical Assistance Section, Directorate of International Organizations, Cuban Foreign Ministry. In January 1967 BALLESTER, as an Observer, attended the Third Session of the UNDP Governing Council in New York City; in January 1969 she attended the Seventh Session. She is not known to have any intelligence/security affiliation.

3. On 26 January 1970 Source "ELGIN" commented on BALLESTER as follows.

While ostensibly an ardent revolutionary, BALLESTER does not really understand revolution and appears to be confused. Among other things, she is disturbed by the fact that her mother and brother left Cuba. The former is in Miami, but BALLESTER is reluctant to have any contact with her at this time because she fears the Cuban Government would misunderstand. Instead, BALLESTER is considering making a request for official Cuban Government authorization to meet her mother outside the U.S. at a later date.

BALLESTER is a hard-working "bureaucrat" who attacks her work conscientiously. Her husband, Rafael MARTEL, is a well-known Cuban radiologist who currently is serving an 18 month tour in North Vietnam with a Cuban technical aid group. BALLESTER and MARTEL are quite wealthy, by Cuban standards, and both are undertaking their current jobs out of loyalty to Fidel.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISTILLATION

ADVANCE COPY

BYI ATI

BY PER

FILE, VR c/11/58 c/104 c/f52 c/el c/fr5

ACTION NO.

143

TOTAL COPIES

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

(When Filled In)

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

PIDEX YIJ NO

CLASSIFY TO CJ FILE NO.

X-REF TO CJ FILE NO.

FILE RID RETURN TO BRANCH

SECRET 292226Z. JAN 72 CITE DO PAGE NEW YORK 7392

(ILENSWORTH ACTING)

DIRECTOR INFO LMIAMI

SYPAT TYPIC AMROSE DOPOPS

REF DIRECTOR -002301

1. BASE OFFICERE FIGALAR HAS DISCUSSED JENNIFER ENID
   MILES, SUBJ REF, AND HER DGI ROLE WITH LOCAL LIEPGO
   OFFICE. NOTE LAERGO WASHINGTON FIELD OFFICE HANDLING
   CASE. LOCAL LIEPGO ONLY ON PERIPHERY, ALTHOUGH OP
   INVOLVES CRUR OFFICEF SOCLLIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ. MILES
   BACK IN WASHINGTON AS OF MID JANUARY 72.

2. BASE WILL CONTINUE MONITOR MILES CASE THROUGH
   LOCAL LAERGO, BUT WOULD APPRECIATE HDOS CONTINUING
   FORWARD TO US ALL LEEFEO HDQS DISCUSS THIS MATTER.

3. FILE 201-354915 (MILES), 201-332655 (RODRIGUEZ).

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

FBI doc. (x-ref.)

26 Jan: 70

Re: Rodriguez Lopez, Rogelio


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

FRIdoc.
12 Dec. 69 (Wash.)
Re: Jennifer Enid miles:
Bufile: (LA)-65-73121

FBI doc (X-ref)
9 Dec. 6.9.
Re: Roxirigerez-Lopez, Rogelio


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

OTTAWA MADRID PARIS LONDON MEXICO CITY

INFO WH/MIAMI DO BASE NEW YORK PRETORIA

RYBAT TYPIC AMROSE

1. LNERCO. ILAS REQUESTED ANY INFO THAT COMES TO RVROCK'S ATTENTION RE TRAVEL AND ACTIVITIES OF IDENTITY, KNOWN DGI AGENT. REPORTEDLY PLANNED FOLLOWING TRỊP TO EUROPE: 24 DEC 69. WASHINGTON, D.C. TO CANADA. 27 DEC 39 CANADA TO MADRID WHERE SHE HAD EIGHT DAY RESERVATION AT UNNAMED HOTEL. THEN PLANNED FOUR DAYS IN PARIS AND FOUR DAYS IN LONDON PRIOR TO RETURNING TO WASHINGTON.

2. SUEJ TRAVELED TO CUEA FROM MEXICO CITY 22 DEC 67, RETURNING 25 MAR GS. IS PRESENTLY IN CONTACT WITH KNOWN DGI OFFICER STATIONED AT CUBAN UN MISSION, NYC (COPY OF 201 BEING POUCHED NEW YORK, TM #S074683).

3. SAME INFO AND REQUEST GIVEN TO LNERCO REPS AT ACTION ADDRESSEES BY THEIR HQS. PLS DO NOT QUERY LOCAL LIAISON.

4. FILE 201-860915.

END OF MESSAGE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

SECRET

PAGE 2

C/WH/COG W.

C/EUR/BC

E/F Mr. Silsby (draft)

E/IB/S Mr. Sorrels (draft)

C/AF/COPS/CI Mr. Bergin (draft)

C/AF/2/SA Mr. Fuller (draft)

DC/WH/1 Mr. Tsikerdanos (draft)

C/CI/OPS/AF Mr. Cavcadine (draft)

C/CI/OPS/WH Mr. Hughes (draft)

DO/I/B2. Mr. Markham (draft)

JOHN SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

# SECRET

ORIC: J. MERTZ:mand
UNIT: WE/COG/OPS.
EXT: 1255
DATE: 13 JAN 70

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CONF:

SECRET

Το Γ OTTAWA MADRID PARIS LONDON MEXICO CITY
INFO WH/MIAMI DO BASE NEW YORK PRETORIA
RYBAT TYPIC AMROSE
REF: DIRECTOR 002301

IDEN: JENNIFER ENID MILES.

DGI ALIAS: MARY; CIT: SOUTH AFRICA; DPOB: 6 MAY 44,
KIMBERLY, SA.; HT: 5FT 9IN; WT: 130-135 LBS; HAIR:
BLOND; EYES: BLUE; PP: "O" 20107 ISSUED 26 JUN 68,
OTTAWA; OCC: SECRETARY AT SOUTH AFRICAN EMBASSY,
WASHINGTON, SINCE APR 69. PREVIOUSLY WORKED TORONTO
AND LONDON BUT NOT AS EMPLOYEE OF SOUTH AFRICANS.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/COG
C/EUR/BC
E/F Mr. Silsby (draft)
E/IB/S Mr. Sorrels (draft)
C/AF/COPS/CI Mr. Bergin (draft)
C/AF/2/SA Mr. Fuller (draft)
DC/WH/1 Mr. Tsikerdanos (draft)
C/CI/OPS/AF Mr. Caveadine (draft)
C/CI/OPS/WH Mr. Hughes (draft)
DO/I/82 Mr. Markham (draft) WILLIAM V. BROE

JOHN SHERWOOD
C/E/FI/CI

SECRET

![GROUP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

TO:

Battie

|     | ROOM NO   | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |
| --- | --------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ |
| 1.  | w/Keg     |               | 31 OCT 1963    | Air                |
| 2.  | Lfie/lipe |               | Jule           | E                  |
| 3.  | Browm     |               |                | P                  |
| 4.  | Gardo     |               |                | 3202               |
| 5.  | Ennis     |               |                | &                  |
| 6.  | Hometer   |               |                | YB                 |
| 7.  | Piccolo   |               |                | P                  |
| 8.  | Mary      |               |                | Aiú                |
| 9.  |           |               |                |                    |
| 10. |           |               |                |                    |
| 11. |           |               |                |                    |
| 12. |           |               |                |                    |
| 13. |           |               |                |                    |
| 14. |           |               |                |                    |
| 15. |           |               |                |                    |
| 16. |           |               |                |                    |
| 17. |           |               |                |                    |

TO ACTION BRANCH

TO ALL ADDRESSEES

COMMENTS

> [Figure] Microfilmed OCT 31 1969 DOC. MICRO. SER.
> 
> RYBAT

> File

FILE TITLE

ABSTRACT X

INDEX X

FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) 19-6-133/4

DOCUMENT DATE 23 Oct 69

DOCUMENT NUMBER UNDA 04684

SECRET

![photo of form footer]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

# DISPATCH

RYBAT SECRET

Chief, WH COG

COS, WH MIAMI; Chief, DO

Acting COB, New York

TYPIC, DOJOPS AMROSE - Debriefing of AMCLOCK/1 on Cuban UN Mission and Delegation Personalities

Action Required: Extract for appropriate 201 files

Refs: a. UNDA-1675, 14 October 1969
b. UNDA-1676, 11 October 1969

1.  Attached herewith for C/WH/COG and COS/WII/MIAMI are two copies each of three memoranda concerning results of an 11 October 1969 debriefing of AMCLOCK/1 by Howard G. FIGALAN on CHUN and Delegation personalities. The meeting with AMCLOCK/1 was necessarily brief, and thus the results are not as extensive as those forwarded by the two referenced dispatches (from a 6 October meeting with AMCLOCK/1).

2.  A copy of each of the memoranda has been passed by FIGALAN to the local LNERGO Cuban Squad, per our existing informal arrangement. "ELGIN" is the code name for ANCLOCK/1 as used between the Base and LNERGO here.

3.  Items should be extracted for the appropriate 201 files.

Howard G. FIGALAN

Attachments:

As stated above

Distribution:

Orig. &[^1] - Chief, WH/COG, w/atts.

2 - COS, WH/MIAMI, w/atts.

2 - Chief, DO, wo/atts.

MICROFILMED
OCT 31 1969.
DOC. MICRO. SER.

I ATT

COPY

UNDA-4684

23 October 1969

RYBAT SECRET

19-6-133/4

[^1]: ![image of number 1]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELCIN" ON 11 OCTOBER 1969

## CUBAN UN MISSION PERSONALITIES

1. PR 201-8243.76.
   Pedro Luis PINERO Elgin, Third Secretary. ELGIN stated that PINERO continues to spend much of his time with Lohania Josefina ARUCA Alonso of the Cuban UNGA Delegation. ELGIN said that PINERO seems to have the approval of the DGI Center here for his modish dress and his excursions to Greenwich Village, et al. ELGIN assumed that PINERO is being used by the DGI Center to roam around town at night meeting new people in the hopes of developing U.S. contacts. Apparently PINERO's garb at times approaches that of a hippie.

2. ZF 201-815231
   Pablo DRAKE Capiro, Attache-designate. DRAKE is scheduled to arrive here in late October to replace Parker Aguilera -351449/
   Batista, Attache, and DSE code clerk. ELGIN did not recognize DRAKE's name and could furnish no information concerning him.

3. ZF 201-853407
   Jose Osvaldo GARCIA Calvo, Attache-designate. GARCIA had been scheduled to come here in July 1969 as an aide to Antonio DE SOUZA, CMUN Advisor. His wife, Nydya Irene ARROYO Martinez, was to have been a secretary to Ambassador Ricardo ALARCON Quesada. ELGIN said that GARCIA and ARROYO will not be coming to New York; their assignment has been cancelled. ARROYO currently is working in the Cuban Foreign Ministry (MINREX), but GARCIA has been sacked from MINREX and is now somewhere in the interior of Cuba. GARCIA fell into official disfavor because a girl friend of his denounced him to the DSE, either because GARCIA would not divorce his wife and marry her, or because she just became disenchanted with him for some reason. Moreover, GARCIA in his MINREX capacity had accompanied the British Ambassador in Cuba on a provincial tour several months ago. During the tour, the Ambassador, apparently favorably impressed by GARCIA, invited him to visit the United Kingdom. GARCIA neglected to report this invitation to the proper Cuban authorities, and when the fact of the invitation leaked out, GARCIA was suspended from MINREX.

4. MISCELLANEOUS. Although he naturally would not be aware of the specifics, ELGIN commented that it appears to him that the DGI Center here is extremely active operationally and seems to have more than enough funds at its disposal to pursue such activities.

![MICROFILMED OCT 31 1969: DOC. MICRO. SER.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

1.  ELGIN was shown the two photographs (as furnished by your office) of the individual believed to be Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, CAUN First Secretary and DGI officer, who was engaged in an intelligence activity in Queens on Saturday night, 4 October 1969. ELGIN identified the latter of the two photographs as RODRIGUEZ; his identification was unhesitating. In questioning ELGIN further to be sure that he was positively convinced that the individual in question was RODRIGUEZ, ELGIN stated that RODRIGUEZ had recently had his hair cut and that it was now lying flatter on his head and that he was keeping it "slicked down" with water or oil. There was no doubt at all in ELGIN's mind that the individual was RODRIGUEZ. ELGIN has known RODRIGUEZ for several years and has seen him here this past month fairly frequently.

2.  ELGIN could not furnish any information as to where RODRIGUEZ might have been over the week-end of 4/5 October. He did not see him on either of those two days.

3.  ELGIN commented that RODRIGUEZ has been spending quite a bit of time lately with Maria de los Angeles FLORES Prida, an Alternate Representative of the Cuban UNGA Delegation. Their companionship is assumed by ELGIN to be more in the social line than in the professional line. RODRIGUEZ is a bachelor; FLORES is a divorcee.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

## CR IN RGA DELEGATION/COMMITTEE

1.  2R 201-71333
    GONZALO A. FERNANDEZ Vasquez, Advisor. ELGIN stated that he had seen very little of FERNANDEZ in the previous week, and could offer no new information on him or on his activities. FERNANDEZ seems to shun most of the Delegation and Mission personnel apart from his fellow DGI people.

2.  2R 201-333693
    Augusto C. VEGA Hernandez, Advisor-designate. Although VEGA has seen carried on the provisional Cuban Delegation listing, he has yet to appear here. ELGIN was not familiar with VEGA'S name, but he commented that he had heard talk of another advisor coming here in October; ELGIN thought that possibly this could be VEGA.

3.  Maria de los Angeles FLORES Prida, Alternate Representative.
    FLORES has been spending quite a bit of time with Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, CHUN First Secretary and DGI officer. RODRIGUEZ is also an Alternate Representative of the Delegation. Their companionship is assumed by ELGIN, to be more in the social line than in the professional line.

19-6-133/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

|                                       |                                |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |
| 2. RI FILE NO.                        |                                |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                        |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. QATE PROCESSED              |
| 10. DISSEMINATED IN                   | 11. DATE                       |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 14.                             | PERTINENT INFORMATION          |

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665
SEX M 008 7

CIT ?
OCC?
CMUN FIRST SECY AND OGI OFFICER, ARRIVED JUN 69

019-500
UNDA-04682
21 OCT 69

R 6910300759


15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-332665

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
SECRET
(7-48)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

# DISPATCH

Chief, WH/CCG

COS, WH/MIAMI, Chief, DD

Con, New York

TOPIC/S
Cuban Activity Reports, 1 July - 30 September 1969

Action Required: FYI, and abstracting to appropriate 201 files

Reference: UNDA-4583, 10 July 1969

1. Transmitted herewith for Chief, WH/CCG, and COS, WH/MIAMI, are one copy each of the monthly Cuban activity reports prepared by the undersigned concerning operational activity against the official Cuban target in New York for the months of July, August, and September 1969.

2. It is suggested that abstracts be placed in the appropriate 201 files.

Howard G. FIGALAN

Attachment:

Reports, as stated above

Distribution:
Orig. & 2 - Chief, WH/COG, w/atts
2 - Chief, DD, w/o/atts.
2 - COS, WH/MIAMI, w/atts.

APERTURE CARD INSTRUCTIONS

CS COPY

OCT 2

UNDA-4682

21 October 1969

SECRET

/19-500


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

KY::-6923

5 August 1969

Distribution:
1 - Unit A (QUNY)
1 - Unit B (DESY)
- COB/MAR
- EGF

MEMORANDUM

TO : Chief of Faso

FROM : Howard G. FIGALAN

SUBJECT: ISOLOG/Operations
Western Hemisphere Targets, Group II: Cuba
Monthly Activities Report, July 1969

1. During July 1969 the writer continued in contact with AUBEDEW/3. No Intelligence Information Report disseminations sourced to ABEDEW/1 were received from Headquarters during July, nor were any operational information squibs received. Results of the photos sent for identification by ABEDE/1 via UNDA-4574, 26 Juno, were not received by the end of July. Although AMBEDEN/1 was "surfaced" on 16 July, the Base was not advised of the vehicle by Headquarters until 23 July, after the Base had queried via DO BASE NEW YORK 6372. Fortunately, AMDEDEW/3 advised the Base of the media of surfacing prior to 23 July. The surfacing had minimal impact locally, as the vehicle chosen for the surfacing does not reach the local observer as would the New York Times, the New York Daily News, or the New York Post. With the turnover of AND/1 to WODISIf for resettlement, the case, for informational purposes, is closed.

2. DO BASE NEW YORK 6697 concerned the effort to expel Alberto LOZA Hidalgo-Gato (201-331833), Chief First Secretary and Deputy Chief of the DGI Center; and Lezard ESPINOSA Bonet, (201-816436), Third Secretary and DCI officer; and the intent to deny a reentry visa to Jorgo KEYES Vega (201-816437), Second Secretary and DGI officer, who is currently in Cuba on leave. Subsequently, LOZA left for Cuba on leave on 27 July; his wife already had returned to Cuba in Juno. Additionally, the following CIM Norms will be placed on "warning" status and liable to expulsion if any further illicit activities occur: Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin (201-824376), Third Secretary and Det officer, Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz (201-816-39), Attache and DGI officer; and Joso Raul VIERA Linares (201-328953), Counsellor and DGI officer.

3. Shortly before his departure on leave, Jorgo REYES Vega introduced on 9 Juno Base asset WUMADIT/1 to REYES' "replacement" for the leave period. This turned out to be Orlando EPEREIRA Gonzalez (201-848505), newly arrived First Secretary. The three-some lunched, and REYES did most of the talking, concentrating on the Cuban election to the Governing Council of the UN Development Programme. WUHABIT/1 did ascertain that PEREIRA spoke fair English and good Russian, and PEREIRA volunteered that he had spent two years in the Soviet Union (he was a First Secretary in

![ES COPY]

H/WATT UNDA-4682 SNDAT 19-500


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

the Cuban Tabassy in Moscow 1967/1900) In introducing PEREIRA, REYES stressed that VUHABIT/) should feel fres to discuon any subject with him, and in tura told PEREIRA that ho should call upon VUMASIT/1 whenover PRESIRA needed advice or holp. While RVROCK trades did not rovcal any.intelligence affiliation for PEREIRA, tho Dase and Lee::l LNLRCO strongly suspect that PEREIRA is a DSI officer. His bohavior in the futuro months will undoub- todly confira or doay this.

4. The most noteworthy now arrival, Pozoljo. RODRIGUEZ(201-332665), First Secretary and Dol Officer, has been lying dormant sinco his arrival in early Ju He is living, prosumably temporarily, in tho CEUN, Julio OLOM Gil (201-851731), another now First Secretary, also has been quiot cinco his Juno arrival.

6. UNDA-1578, 3 July, transmitted a current listing of CHUN personnel to WII/Miami for uso i dobriofing AMCARD/1 as to any knowledge or acquaintanceship with any of them.. The writer and ESTHOURN of WH/liami discussed in New York on 1 July thờ possible novo of ANCARD/1 to the New York'area,

6. The month of July appeared to bo a quiet one for both tho legitimate CHUN personnel and the DGI Contor.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

# MEMORANDUM

TO : Chief of Ease

FROM : Howard G. FIGALAN

SUBJECT: ISOLCG/Operational

: Vestorn Houisphoro Targets, Group II: Cuba

: Monthly Activitios Report, August 1969-

1. AMBEDEV/1. arrived in the area for rosottlement on 1 August, 1969. Although KODISH is handling the administrativo acrocts of the resettlement, the writer is staying in periodic contact with MMBED/1 and AMBED/3 for futuro oporational purposes (o.g., dobriofing AMBED/1 on now CMUN arrivals, etc.). Results of the Last batch & photographs forwarded by U-4574 26 Juno, voro rocoivod via DIRECTOR 25971 in oarly August..

2. On 20 August, the UN Secrotary General van briofed by tho U.S. Pormanent Reprosentative to the UN on the illicit activities of Lazaro ESPINOSA Bonet (201-816438), CHUN Third Socrotary and DGI officor, and Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Gato (201-331032) First Socrotery and Deputy Chief of the NGI.Centor. The following morning, 21 August, the CMUN was advised by diplomatic noto that ESPINOSA.Ghould c:poditiously depart the U.S. and that COZA (thon in Cuba on leave) would not bo alloved a reentry visa. Jorge REYES Voga (201-316137), Second Secretary and DGI officor, also was requested to confino his activities to thosơ. rolatod directly to his status as en officer of a mission to tho UN. (SOO DO BASE NEW YORK 6763 for background.) The story surfaced in the pros the following day, 22 August.

3. In mid-Augunt ERGO advised the writor that ANCLOCK/1 would bo visiting the U.S. This was the first indication to RVROCK of his possible travel hors this your.:

4. On 30. Augunt AMOULAY/1 arrived in the area for resottlo-mont:

5. In Into August the Baso with local ENERGO monitored, for WH/MIAMI, tho ANGAIT/1 matter involving Podro Luis PINERO Eirin (201-024370), CMUN Third Socrotary and DGI officer. We were all in agreed opinion that PINERO would not show up for the 28 August mooting as it had been laid on prior to the events cited in paragraph 2. above; wo woro correct as PINERO did not appear. Sco DO BASE NEW YORK 6792 for background. It is likely that the local DGE Centor will romain noro operationally quiot for a time becauso of the knocks taken by the DGI lately: tho cxpulsion of Jesus GIMENEZ Escobar, the dofection of ANDEDEV/1, the oxpulsion of


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

DOZA and ESPINOSA, and the defection of ANDOLAY/1 all coming within the past six months.

C. In mid-September the Cuban Delegation to the 24th UN General Assembly will start arriving in sections. The first arrives on 11 September, the second 15 September, and the last on the 18th. Not surprisingly, the name of ANC URVE/1 (201-333971) is not among those coming. No doubt that he will be out for quite some time, if ever. The bulk of the Representatives, Alternate Representatives, and Advisors of the Delegation have been here before for General Assemblies. The distaff side will be well represented by Marta JIMENEZ Martinez, Lohania Josefina ARUCA Alonso, and Maria de los Angeles FLORES Price; the first two are well known to us from previous General Assemblies. Ramon OROZA Nevoran, an Advisor of the Delegation, is well-known to us as a leading official of DGI Headquarters.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |                     |          |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------- | -------- |
| 1. RI FILE NO.                        | 2.                             |                     |          |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                        |                     |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |                     |          |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. DATE PROCESSED              | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE |
| DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                  |                                |                     |          |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |                     |          |
| 14. PERTINENT INFORMATION             |                                |                     |          |

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665
SEX M D08 ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
TRANSMITTAL OF PHOTOS

201-858915
UNDA-04679
21 OCT 69

UFA

R 6910311045

FILE IN 201- 332665

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

![file this form in file no logo]

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 54

PRIOR TO FILING

1. File 2 on back. Each back flap and forward to RID.

2. Destroy front cover sheet, and all records significant action taken or concerning preservation.

FROM: RID/SD

TO ACTION FILE
If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/SD

FROM: RID

TO: ALL ADDRESSEES
FILL IN SECTION TO FILE IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS:

| TO              | ROOM NO | DATE RECEIVED | DATE FORWARDED | OFFICER'S INITIALS |     |
| --------------- | ------- | ------------- | -------------- | ------------------ | :-: |
| 1.  Fullbright  |         | 29 OCT 1969   | 1 OCT 1969     | Will               |     |
| 2.  Gallagher   |         | 31.           | 10/1           | R                  |     |
| 3.  Brown       |         |               |                | P                  |     |
| 4.  Riide       |         |               |                | M                  |     |
| 5.  Ernois      |         |               |                | One copy removed   |     |
| 6.  Mertz       |         |               |                | G                  |     |
| 7.  Daryl Lucky |         |               |                | (f)                |     |
| 8.  Piccolo     |         |               |                | 6                  |     |
| 9.  Hediny      |         |               |                | RM                 |     |
| 10.             |         |               |                |                    |     |
| 11. Piccolo     |         |               |                | !                  |     |
| 12. Moony       |         |               |                | File               |     |
| 13.             |         |               |                |                    |     |
| 14.             |         |               |                |                    |     |
| 15.             |         |               |                |                    |     |
| 16.             |         |               |                |                    |     |
| 17.             |         |               |                |                    |     |

TRACE REQUEST: Abstract

Index

MICROFILMED OCT 28 1969 DOC. MICRO. SER.

RYBAT

FILE TITLE:

FILE NUMBER/PRIMARY CODE: 19-6-133/4

DOCUMENT DATE: 14 Oct 69

USDA 04675

SECRET

![photo of traces and index marked with an X]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 55

# DISPATCH

Chief, WH/COG

COS, WH/MIAMI; Chief, DO

COR, New York
TYPIC/DOMOPS/AMLOSE/1 on Cuban UN Mission and Delegation
Debriefing of AMCLOCK/1 Personalities

Extract for appropriate 201 files

1.  Attached herewith for C/WH/COG and COS/WH/MIAMI are two copies each of two memoranda concerning results of a 6 October 1969 debriefing of AMCLOCK/1 by Howard G. FIGALAN on Cuban UN Mission and UNGA Delegation personalities.

2.  A copy of each of the two memoranda has been passed by FIGALAN to the local LNERGO Cuban Squad, per our existing informal agreement. "ELGIN" is the code name for ANCLOCK/1 as used between the Base and LNERGO here.

3.  Results of the 6 October meeting concerning Marta JIMENEZ Martinez (201-784065) of the Cuban Delegation have been forwarded to above addressees by separate dispatch.

4.  The writer anticipates that further and more detailed debriefing information on personalities of local interest to this Base and LNERGO will be forthcoming in future sessions with AMCLOCK/1.

5.  Items should be extracted for the appropriate 201 files.

Howard G. FIGALAN

Distribution:
2-WH/COG, w/both atts.
2-WH/Miami, w/both atts
2-DO, w/o atts.

Attachments:
As stated above

> [Figure: MICROFILMED stamp with date OCT 28 1969 and DOC. MICRO. SER.]

2 ATT

UNDA-4675

13 October 1969

19-6-133/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 56

# INFORMATION OSTAINED FROM SOUNGE "ELGIN" ON 6 OCTOBER 1969

## CUBAN UN MISSION PERSONALITIES

1.  Pedro Amado CORALES Carballo, Counsellor. Source stated that MORALES has no intelligence/security affiliation. He is close to Fidel CASTRO Ruz. He is "very frivolous", not a serious type of person. Although MORALES is an Alternate Representative on the II Committee of the UNGA, he knows little about the issues or the work of the Committee. Ile has intellectual pretenses, but in actuality is of somewhat limited intellectual capacity. Does not take his work seriously. Source termed him a "tonto". Sourco is not aware whether MORALES has had any contacts with Cyrus EATON since MORALES' arrival here.

2.  Julio ALOM Gil, First Secretary. Source stated that ALOM has no intelligence/security affiliation. ALON is vory close to Ambassador Ricardo ALARCON Quesada..

3.  Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez, First Secretary. Source stated that PERERA is a DGI officer. He speaks a "little" Russian learned when he was assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Moscow. PEREIRA is a close associate of Manuel PINEIRO Losada, Chief of the DGI. PEREIRA is the DGI replacement for Jesus JIMENEZ Escobar, former CMUN Counsellor; however, JIMENEZ' diplomatic replacement is Pedro Amado MORALES Carballo. Source does not personally like PEREIRA. Just before PEREIRA was assigned to New York he married Maria de los Angeles LOPEZ Canas. Until her marriage, LOPEZ served as secretary to the Chief of the Cuban Communist Youth Organization. She now works part-time in the CMUN as a teletype operator.

4.  Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, First Secretary. RODRIGUEZ is a bachelor, which Source stated is rare among DGI personnel assigned abroad. Source stated that RODRIGUEZ has a frank and open manner, also rare among DGI personnel.

5.  Florentino JIMENEZ Padron, Attache. Source stated that JIMENEZ, has no intelligence/security affiliation. He is the CMUN chauffeur. Member of the Cuban Communist Party. A "campesino" typo. Cáme to the Foreign Ministry as a chauffeur from the Cuban Armed Forces. JIMENEZ enjoys good personal relations with Foreign Minister Raul ROA, and is under ROA'S "protection"! During his assignment at the Cuban Embassy in Prague, JIMENEZ initiated a one-time sexual liaison with a local woman with


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 57

6. Serafin GARCIA Rodriguez, Attache. GARCIA (who had arrived here in February 1960) has departed permanently from New York for Cuba.

7. Pedro Leis PINERO Zirin, Third Secretary. Source stated that PINERO and Lohania Josefina ARUCA Alonso, member of the Cuban UNGA Delegation, of late are always together, day and night. Marta JIMENEZ Martinez commented that one time Lohania did not return to her room until 0400 hours in the morning after having been with PINERO. Source assumes that PINERO and ARUCA are having an affair. (In 1967, during the UNGA, ARUCA and Nicolas RODRIGUEZ Astiazarain, then CMUN Counsellor, were romantically involved; ARUCA expected RODRIGUEZ to divorce his wife and marry her -- he didn't).

8. Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez, Attache. Source was told by Jorge REYES Vega, Second Secretary, the GELABERT and his wife, Neida BLANDY Reyes, returned to Cuba at the direction of the CMUN because BLANDY was behaving promiscuously ("como una prostituta"). They plan to divorce. Source doubts that GELABERT will return to New York. Source did not know the person or persons with whom Neida BLANDY was sexually mis- behaving. Source said that REYES commented to him that GELABERT appeared to be afraid of BLANDY.

9. MISCELLANEOUS

(A) Source continues to regard Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez, First Secretary and Chief of the local DGI Center, as a very "simpatico" person. He also thinks well of Teresita FERNANDEZ Arango, PRENDES' wife, as a person. PRENDES spends little time outside of the CMUN. As Chief of the DGI Center he concerns himself principally with administration of the Center's personnel and operational activities, leaving conduct of actual operations to his subordinates.

(B) Source thinks that Jose Raul VIERA Linares, Counsellor, may be acting as the deputy to PRENDES. At any rate, after PRENDES, the three ranking DGI personnel are VIERA, Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, and Orlando PEREIRA Gonzalez (not necessarily in that order).


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 58

201-836757
(C) Rolando PEREZ Alfonso, Attache, and Rafael AGUILERA Batista, Attache, continue as the two code clerks.
201-351447/
201-816439
(D) Miguel Manuel SANTANA Frais, Attache, is very interested in radios. SANTANA is a "disagreeable person", and rarely speaks. Source is not sure whether SANTANA is with the DGI or the DSE.

SECRET

19-6-133/4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 59

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ALGIN" ON 6 OCTOBER 1969

## CUBAN UNGA DELEGATION PERSONALITIES

201-357128

1.  HOUSING ARRANGEMENTS. Fernando LVAREZ Tabio, Ambassador, and Enrique CAMEDO Audiffred, Ambassador, are rooming together in the Peter Cooper Hotel. Marta JIMENEZ Martinez, Minister, Maria de los Angeles FLORES Prida, First Secretary, and Lohania Josefina ARUCA Alonso, First Secretary, are rooming together at the Peter Cooper Hotel. Roberto Miguel FERNANDEZ Vasquez, Antonio Bruno FERNANDEZ Pajon, and Victor Manuel GONZALEZ Valdez, all Advisors, have moved from the Peter Cooper and are now staying in the apartment of Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez, #5 M, 220 East 63rd Street. (It is possible that one of the Cuban diplomatic couriers is also staying in the GELABERT apartment as well).

2.  DELEGATION ADVISORS. All of the "Advisors" on the Delegation are with the DGI. Jamon Orozco Laveran, Manuel MARTINEZ Galan, and Raul Coferii Zayas Linares have gone to Canada to "inspect" the Cuban Embassy in Ottawa; from there they will return to Cuba via Mexico. They do not plan to return to New York enroute home. Source thinks that the other three Advisors - FERNANDEZ, FERNANDEZ, and GONZALEZ - will remain in New York until the end of the UNGA. They are currently taking English lessons for several hours most mornings (place not known to Source). Source considers that these three are all "disagreeable" people -- very reserved and not at all friendly. Source considers Roberto FERNANDEZ Vasquez to be a "sinverguenza".

201-276104

3.  MISCELLANEOUS. Carlos OLIVARES Sanchez, formerly Cuban Ambassador to the Soviet Union and formerly a high ranking official of the Foreign Ministry, may attend a later portion of the UNGA. OLIVARES is in Boston to have an eye operation at Massachusetts General Hospital. He may stop off in New York enroute back to Cuba. OLIVARES' influence in Cuba has been waning ever since Fidel CASTRO began replacing the "Old Guard Communists" with "Fidelistas".


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 60

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE

7. SOURCE CRYPTONYMS. 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11.DATE.

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
    RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665 019-005-034
SEX M DOB ? 316 -0312069
02 SEP 69
CIT CUBA P41
OCC ?
AKA ROGELIO
INFO AS REPORTED IN DEBRIEFING OF SUBJ OF
201-815358

R 7003300131

FILE IN 201-3321da5

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 61

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION |                                |          |
| ------------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------ | -------- |
| 2. RI FILE NO.                        |                         |                                |          |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4. DATE                 |                                |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. DATE OF INFO.        | 9. EVALUATION                  |          |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. DATE PROCESSED       | 10. DISSEMINATED IN            | 11. DATE |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION    | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |          |
| 14. PERTINENT INFORMATION             |                         |                                |          |

```text
201-382685
CIT ?
DEC 12
ADDITIONAL INFO AND TRACES
```

```text
201-334253
UFAA-01145A01
31 JUL 69
02
```

```text
6903063705
```

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

```text
FILE IN 20T-332665
```

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
(7-46)
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 62

FBI doc.
30 July '69 (Wash.)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
no Butile given


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 63

ASSIGNED AGENT: C. JOHNSON
AX File # 105-RC

NAME: LOPEZ, ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ
AKA'S

DATE & PLACE OF BIRTH: 5/3/42, Ilavana, Cuba.
SEX:

CITIZENSHIP:

FOREIGN TRAVEL & DATES:

IDENTIFICATION #'s 6-2469
NAZI to:
CSCI-316/00696-64
-dated 25 August 1961, subject:
-pment of Exploring to mence and
CCI-3/782,061 dated 29 June 1961,
Subject Reggies cultural

ADDRESSES:

OCCUPATION & EMPLOYMENT & DATES
9-10/67, Technical Aide of the Cuban Government at the
22nd Session of the General Assembly of the UN.

RELATIVES:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 64

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws Title 18, USC Sect 793 and 794, the transmission of revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law

CONFIDENTIAL

COUNTRY MEXICO CUBA

CLASSIFICATION - DISSEMINATION CONTROLS

SUBJECT NAMES AND PASSPORT NUMBERS OF CUBANS FLYING FROM HABANA TO MEXICO CITY

all TRAVEL

REPORT NO TLCS-3/552,869

DATE OF INFO. 6 & 8 JULY 1963

DATE DISTR. 10 JULY 1963

PLACE &
DATE ACQ. MEXICO, MEXICO CITY (9 JULY 1963).

PRECEDENCE ROUTINE

APPRAISAL 2

REFERENCES IN 76244

SOURCE PERSONS (B) WITH GOOD ACCESS TO TRAVEL INFORMATION.

FIELD REPORT NO: HMM 7504

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION. SOURCE GRADINGS ARE DEFINITIVE. APPRAISAL OF CONTENT IS TENTATIVE.

1. TRAVEL DATA SHOWS THE FOLLOWING CUBANS ARRIVED IN MEXICO CITY
   FROM HABANA VIA AIR ON THE DATES INDICATED: 6 JULY 1963: ALICIA FERNANDEZ ESTEVES, PP NO 23747; MARTA MARTINEZ GARCIA, PP NO E/63/389; RAFAELA CHACON MARDI PP NO E/63/388 AGUSTIN YASELLS GONZALEZ, PP NO DIPLOMATIC D/61/5096 MARIO OIZ FOLGUEIRA, PP NO DIPLOMATIC D/63/447; RMA MILAN OLIVERA, DIPLOMATIC PP NO D/63/433; FIDEL ARMONA Mila MILAN, INFANT, DIPLOMATIC PP NO D/63/433; SILVIA B REYNES MONTES DE OCA, PP NO 32489; MARTHA CABALLER DARDER, DIPLOMATIC PP NO D/63/432; BARSA CONONOCLON INFANT DIPLOMATIC PP NO D/63/432 RAUL A MACUER Parra PARRA, DIPLOMATIC PP NO 0/63/451 RAUL PEREIRA VAZQUEZ, PP NO E/ RODRIGUEZ, INFANT, PP_NO 63/456; ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, DIPLOMATIC PP NO D/63/454 AND ESTER GAVILAN ROGALES, DIPLOMATIC P. NO 0/63/455..

2. FIELD DISSEM: STATE FBY CINCSO CINCLANT.

HIS CUIFE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 65

RIORIQUE - (Sep(?))rigelian

CUBA

The September 2nd issue of the Diani Oficial of the Government of Mexico reveals several changes in the personnel of the Cuban Embassy during the month of August. New arrivals were Raul APARICIO Corales, Counselor for Cultural Affairs, Rogelio Rincon(?) Lopez, Second Secretary, and Elpidio INTERIM Comezaños, Attache. The single departure during the month was Armando SARDIDAS Garcia, Attaché.

13 Sept. 1963

Mexico A-336

UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 66

# RODRICHES Lopez, Kecelio.

REPORT TO MEXICO: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF MEDICLE INTERVIEWED -- Havana, Hoy, 15 May 64

Pedro Bacza, Cuban delegate to the Centenary celebration of the National Academy of Mexico, was interviewed upon his return το Havana. The most important event at the celebratión, he told reporters, was his meeting with US scientist Linus Pauling who wishes to visit Cuba.

BOLIVIAN DELEGATE TO LABOR DAY CELEBRATION LAUDS REVOLUTION -- Havana, Hoy, 20 May 64

Paulino Tito Calle, secretary for foreign affairs of the Agrarian Workers Union of Canton Coyara, Aroma Province of La Paz Departzent, Bolivia, praised the Cuban Revolution and brarded as false the propaganda against it. He is a member of the Bolivian delegation to the Cuban celebration of Labor Day which included Alejandro Silva and Mario Cortes.

SECOND SECRETARY RETURNS TO MEXICO CITY POST -- Havana, Hoy, 17 May 64

Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, second secretary in the Cuban Embassy in Mexico, left Havana by plane for Mexico City to resume his post.

AMBASSADOR TO UN DEPARTS FOR NEW YORK -- Havana, Revolucion, 19 May 64

Ambassador to the UN Carlos M. Lechuga, accompanied by his wife Gladys Lauderman and daughter Miriam, left Eavana for New York City to resume his post on 18 May.

SINGER TOURS COMMUNIST CHINA CITIES -- Havana, Revolucion, 19 May 64

Cuban singer Viriam Acevedo, who sang in various cities in the Soviet Union, is currently appearing in various cities in Communist Chira such as Peiping, Norking, and Shanghai. While in the latter city, she was visited by Cuban students.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 67

# DISPATCH

SECRET

To:
Chief

Info:
Chief of Station, WH/Miami

From:
Chief, Testern Hemisphere Division

Subject:
C TYPIC/DOMOPS/AMBEDEW Rogelio RODRIQUEZ Lopes

1. Reference your telephone request of 24 June 1969 requesting a photograph of Dugelio RODRIGUEZ which is better than the one appearing in the Cuban Mugbook, it is believed that Subject of your request is Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, whose photograph is included in the Mugbook. There is no photograph of Eugelio RODRIGUEZ.

2. Forvarded herewith for your retention is a photograph of Rogelio RODRIQUEZ Lopes, recently designated First Secretary, CHUN, who was scheduled to travel to New York via Mexico in early June 1969. Unfortunately, this photograph 18 little, if any, better than the one in the Cuban Mugbook. It is the only other photograph available at Headquarters.

3. AMBEDEW-1 has been shown and has positively identified the attached photo as Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, a DGI officer in Section III who was known to AMBEDEW-1 as "Rogelio." A-1 last sav Rogelio in Paris on 21 November 1968, at which time Rogelio was enroute to Conakry on what A-l thought to be an important mission. It appeared that someone in Conakry could not leave until Rogelio arrived. A-1 understood that Rogelio had been in the UN Mission in New York, or in Canada, in 1964-65.

4. The above information may be passed to LNERGO.

Olive S. ECKHOLM

Distribution:
2- COB, New York, att. h/w

1-COS, WH/Miami, w/o att.

CS COPY

CROSS PEFERENCE 10
UNDW-2947
3 JUL 1969

19-6-139/4

SECRET
201-332665

Distribution:

- DO/I/B2
- WH/COG/OPS (Betty)
- Originator
- RID

| OFFICE        | ORIGINATING       |                              |
| ------------- | ----------------- | ---------------------------- |
| WH/COG/OPS    | ch                |                              |
| OFFICE SYMBD. | DATE              | SUBORDINATING                |
| DC/WH/COG     | David A. Phillips |                              |
| DO/I/B2       |                   |                              |
| OFFICE SYMEOL | DATE              | RELEASING OFFICERS SIGNATURE |
| C/DO          |                   | Gordon Jorgensen             |

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 68

Dept. of State
27 June 6t
A-1517
Re: Charges in Soviet Bloc Diplomatic
Personnel in Mexico

FBI doc. (X-ref)
4 Jun '69
Re: Rodriguez, Rogelio

FBI doc.
27 May '69 (Wash)
Re: Cuban Mission to the U.N.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 69

ORIG: DARYL GEISLER:ak
UNIT: WH/COG/OPS
EXT: 5061 R. 1457
DATE: 24 APRIL 1969

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES
SECRET

ROUTING AND INITIALS

INDER
NO INDEX
RETURN O
PRANCH
FILE RID

6
BY
PER

CONF:
WH 8
FILE, VR,

SECRET

25 14 57Z APR 69

TO DO BASE NEW YORK INFO: WH/MIAMI CITE DIRECTOR
TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE 96045
REF: DO BASE NEW YORK 6232 (IN 37470)

1. FOLLOWING TRACES ON ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ SUBSEQUENT SEPT
   67:

A. DOCUMENT REPORTED HE SON OF LONG TIME MEMBER OF PARTIDO SOCIALISTA POPULAR. MARRIED TO ESTER GAVILAN NOGALES (DBC 2003, 30 NOVEMBER 67).

B. QUTIMID 15 SEPTEMBER 68 SAID RODRIGUEZ ARRIVING MADRID FOLLOWING DAY IN TRANSIT TO GUINEA AND THAT HE TRAVELING WITHOUT VISA BECAUSE HAD TO LEAVE HAVANA IN HURRY.

C. AMBEDEW/1 REPORTED THAT RODRIGUEZ WAS DGI OFFICER IN SECTION III (NORTH AMERICA AND SOVIET BLOC). SAW HIM ON 21 NOVEMBER 68 WAS GOING TO CONAKRY ON IMPORTANT MISSION. APPEARED THAT SOMEONE COULD NOT LEAVE CONAKRY UNTIL HE ARRIVED.

D. FOLLOWING TRAVEL AVAILABLE RODRIGUEZ FROM 67 TO PRESENT:

12 JUNE 67 CUBA-MEXICO; MEXICO - CUBA 19 JUNE 67; CUBA- MEXICO 19 SEPT
67 (I); MEXICO - UNNY 18 SEPTEMBER 67 (I); CUBA - BWIN 18 SEPTEMBER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 70

ORG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE: APR 29 12 46 PM '69
CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
RIDEDI
CONF:
FILE. VB.

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

INDEX
NO INDEX
RETURN TO
BRANCH
FILE RID
FILE IN CB FILE NO.

(classification)
(date and time filed)
(other)
(place)
(reference number)
SECRET
CITE DIRECTOR
PAGE TWO

1967; BWIN - UNNY APRIL 68 (I); CUBA - SPAIN 19 SEPTEMBER 68; FRANCE -
CSR 4 OCTOBER 68.

END OF MESSAGE

![signature of Gordon Jorgensen]
GORDON JORGENSEN
C/DO

![signature] C/WH/COG
DO/I/B2

![signature]
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WID

RELEASING OFFICER
COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
degrading and
declassification
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.
COPY NO..


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 71

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES
ROUTING AND/OR NITIA S-SE'N RY

SECRET

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

INDEX
YES
NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID
BRANCH
DESTROY

INFO FILE. VR. RYAN, CI/OPS, F12, DO4

SECRET 22155 Z APR 69 CITE WH/MIAMI 3630 22 APR 69 IN 41615
DO BASE NEW YORK INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC: DOMOPS AMROSE

REF: DO BASE NEW YORK 6232 (IN 3747)

1. NO STATION OR AMOT TRACES ROGILIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ SUBSEQUENT TO SEPTEMBER 1967.

2. FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

CS COPY

SECRET

![illegible text and markings]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 72

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 18  FILING AND/OR
SECRET
SLOTTED REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM DY 24
ACTION UNIT UH-8 FILE, VR, DO-4, RI/AN CE/OPS, FE-2
ACTION

16 APR 69 IN 37470

SECRET 162059Z APR 69 CITE DO BASE NEW YORK 6232
DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI
NYDU
TYPIC DOMOPS AMROSE

REF DO BASE NEW YORK 4322

1. CUBAN UN MISSION HAS REQUESTED VISA BE AUTHORIZED
   MEXICO CITY FOR ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665), DESIGNATED
   FIRST SECRETARY NEW YORK. RODRIGUEZ IS WELL KNOWN DGI OFFICER.
   AS ADDEES WILL RECALL FROM REF, RODRIGUEZ WAS ORIGINALLY SCHEDULED
   FOR ASSIGNMENT HERE APRIL 68 BUT NEVER CAME.

2. REQUEST ADDEES UPDATED TRACES (INCLUDING AMOT) SUBSEQUENT
   JMWAVE 9521 AND UNDW 1832, BOTH DATED SEPTEMBER 67.

3. FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

CS COPY
SECRET

![illegible annotation]

![illegible annotation]

201-332665
16 April 1969


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 73

# DEPARTMENT OF STATE
## REQUEST FOR BIOGRAPHIC DATA

TO:

FROM:

![Check mark] CIA

FULL NAME (Married woman, include maiden name)

Rogelio RIGUEZ Lopez

ALIASES, NICKNAMES

DATE AND PLACE OF BIRTH

May 3, 1942
Havana

HOME ADDRESS

previous check 1/23/63

SEX
m

CITIZENSHIP

Cuban

MARITAL
STATUS

SPOUSE'S NAME

OCCUPATION

NAME AND ADDRESS OF PRESENT EMPLOYER

PREVIOUS EMPLOYERS AND FORMER ADDRESSES (Approximately last ten years)

‘ill apply Anembassy Mexico for visa as First Secretary of the Cuban Mission to the !!!

FOR USE OF DEPARTMENT OF STATE ONLY

OFFICE

Visa Office

TYPE OF DEPARTMENT PROGRAM

DATE

4/16/69

NAME OF SUBMITTING OFFICER

SCA:VBTuncan

CONSC: , Rogelio (Lopez)

FOR USE OF OTHER OFFICE(S) OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE

![Handwritten notes]

17 APR 1969

FORM DS-939
9-65


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 74

FBI doc.
28 Oct. 68 (NY)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez
Bufile: 105-130905
NY - 105-91642


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 75

| TO               | ROOM NO                   | DATE RECEIVED              | DATE FORWARDED                      | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| ---------------- | ------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1.               |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| LEEE             |                           |                            |                                     | War               |
| 2.               |                           | 1 NOV 1968                 |                                     | N                 |
|                  |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
|                  |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 3.               |                           | 4 NOV 1968                 |                                     |                   |
| LYAR             |                           |                            |                                     | A                 |
| 4.               |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| GCLC             |                           |                            | Shor                                |                   |
| 5.               |                           | 6 NOV 1968                 |                                     |                   |
| E EFIS           |                           |                            |                                     | NA                |
| 6.               |                           | 14 NOV 1968                |                                     |                   |
| AlleT            |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 7.               |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| Daryl            |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 8.               |                           | 14 NOV 1968                |                                     | '7'               |
| Nancy            |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 9.               |                           |                            |                                     | θ                 |
| Liddell          |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 10.              |                           | 14 NOV 1968                |                                     | K                 |
| AC. Ling         |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 11.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
|                  |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 12.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
|                  |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 13.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
|                  |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 14.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 15.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 16.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| 17.              |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| RID/FI           |                           |                            |                                     |                   |
| TRACE REQUEST    | ABSTRACT                  | INDEX                      | FILE TITLE                          |                   |
|                  | X                         |                            | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) 200-9-52 |                   |
| DATE MICROFILMED | DOCUMENT DATE 25 oct 1968 | DOCUMENT NUMBER UNCA 04161 |                                     |                   |

> [Figure] Stamped text: MICROFILMED NOV 1 1968 DOC. MICRO. CER.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 76

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WIH/Cuba

INFO: Chief, DO

FROM: Chief of Base, New York
INFIC7DOMOPS/AKCLOCK

SUBJECT: Transmittal of Information on Official Cuban Community in New York

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

ACTION REQ: Index, if necessary; extract information to appropriate 201 files

REF: DO BASE/NEW YORK 5174

1. As indicated in the reference, the undersigned met with Subject on 19 October 1963 for the purpose of debriefing him on items of local interest to the Base and LNERGO.

2. Attached herewith is the information obtained at that meeting, broken down on separate sheets by major topics:

A) Cuban UN Mission (CMUN) personnel;

B) Cuban personalities of local interest (but who are not now in New York);

C) Physical lay-out of the CMUN;

D) Miscellaneous information on the official Cuban community;

E) Cuban Delegation to the 23rd UNGA.

3. Perhaps the most interesting items are the following:

A) Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201-?)
appears to be the new chief of the DGI contingent within the CMUN, with Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Gato (201-331832) probably serving as the deputy; Jose Raul VIERA Linares (201-325953) and Jesus JIMENEZ Escobar (201-749244) follow as the third and fourth ranking DGI officers;

ATTACHMENT:

1-3 copies per para 2 above, att. h/w

DISTRIBUTION:

2-C/DO, w/o attice 2-C/DO

3-C/WH/C, w/3 cc of att.

DATE:

OCT 25 1968

22 October 1968

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

1-19-5-t

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER:

UNDA-4161

CLASSIFICATION:

HQS FILE NUMBER:

19-500

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 77

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UNDA-4161

B) There are apparently now two code clerks in the CHUN;

C) The physical lay-out of the CMUN;

D) The proportion of intelligence/security personnel within the CHUN (this information updates that given in UNDA-4116, 23 September 1968).

4. It is suggested that Headquarters extract appropriate items for the respective 201 files, particularly the intelligence/ security personnel. To facilitate this process, the following Individuals are mentioned in the attachments (201 numbers shown where known):

Jesus JIMENEZ Escobar (201-749244)
Jose Raul VIERA Linares (201-328953)
Jorge BOLANOS Suarez (201-787157)
Alberto BOZA Hidaigo-Gato (201-331832)
Carlos MORALES Quevedo (201-777568)
Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201- ?)
Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin (201-824376)
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665)
Cecilia ANDRE Sardain (201 - ?)
Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz (201-816439)
Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez (201- ?)
Rafael AGUILERA Batista (201-351449)
Rolando PEREZ Alfonso (201-?)
Jorge REYES Vega (201-816437)
Nicolas RODRIGUEZ Astiazarain (201-804011)
Marta JIMENEZ Martinez (201-784065)
Alfonso VILLACORTA (201- ?)
Jose FERNANDEZ COSSIO Rodriguez (201-766981)
Fernando ALVAREZ Tabio (201-357128)
Jose Antonio RABAZA Vasquez (201-333971)

5. Copies of the attachment were passed to the local LNERGO office by the undersigned. ELGIN is the code name for Source in dealings with local. LNERCO.

Howard G. FIGALAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 78

SECRET

INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELGIN" ON 10 OCTOBER 68

CUBAN UNTTED NATIONS MISSION (CMUN) PERSONNEL,

1.  Jesus JIMENEZ Escobay. Comsellor. JIMENEZ was promoted to Counsellor in July 1968 because, according to Source's opinion, this rank would give him more status in his overt responsibility for economic and UN: Development Programme matters. Source believes that JIMENEZ is now the fourth ranking DCI officer in the CMUN behind PRENDES, BOZA, and VIERA. Source considers JIMENEZ to be the most sophisticated officer in the CMUN.

2.  Jose Raul SERA Linares. Counsellor. Source believes that VIERA is now the third ranking DGT officer in the CHUN behind PRENDES and BOZA. Sousse thinks that VIERA Will be transferred back to Cuba soon, probably in December 1968.

3.  Jorge ESLANOS Sucrez, Comsellor-designate. Source stated that the Foreign Ministry lias cancelled the assigment of BOLANOS. He definitely will not be coming to New York.

4.  Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Gato, First Secretary. Source believes (but does not have positive proof) that BOZA is now the Deputy Chief of the DGI contingent in the CMUN, behind PRENDES. BOZA specializes in "Black Power" matters. Source said that BOZA is now occupying the apartment formerly lived in by Carlos MORALES Quevedo, First Secretary, and his family. The wife of BOZA, Adamina VASQUEZ Caparo, currently is working in the CMUN as secretary to Ambassader ALARCON. Source believes that the assignment here of BOZA means greater emphasis is to be placed on "Black Power" matters.

5.  Carlos MORALES Quevedo. First Secretary. Source stated that MORALES has reservations to leave New York enroute to Cuba 18 December 1.968. Since the departure in early October of his family, MORALES has been living in the CMUN.

6.  Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez, First Secretary. Source is positive that PRENDES is now the Chief of the DGI contingent within the CMUN. Source also stated that in such capacity, PRENDES also would be responsible for DGI activities in Canada.

7.  Pedro Luis PINCRO Eirin. Third Secretary. Source believes, based on stories that he had heard in Cuba, that PINERO is a DCI officer.

CS COPY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 79

SECRET

8. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, First Scerotary-desimate. Source does not know RODRIGUEZ or anything boat him. RODRIGUEZ was scheduled to come to_w_York_soze months ago; it would seem that he is not coming at this point. RODRIGUEZ amply has been documented as a DGI officer through other sources.

9. CeciLiANDRE Sandaia, Second Secretary-designate。Source does not know. ANDRE, who was scheduled to come at the same time as Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez. Source thought ANDRE might be the wife of Jorge BOLANOS Suarez (paragraph 3 above); as he thought BOLANOS' wife was named Cecilia, whom Source know to be employed as a staff officer in the Cuban Embassy in London during BOLANOS' assignment there.

10. Miguel Manuel SANTANA Fraiz, Attiche. Source, who had identified SANTANA as a DGI officer in November 1967, now states that he is not sure whether he is with the DGI or with the DSE. Source thinks that he is probably with the DGI. Source said that the wife of SANTANA will return here late October.

11. Justo Cesar CLABERT Martinez, Attacic. Source stated that GELABERT is with the DSE. He replaced Ramon MARTINEZ Suarez as the "Portero" of Line CMUN.

12. Rafael ANJILERA Batista, Attache. Source confirmed that AGUILERA replaceų Roberto GUERRA Gonzalez as a code clerk.

13. Rolando PEREZ Alfonso, Attache. Source stated that there are now two code clerks in the CMUN, by process of elimination, it would appear that PEREZ might well be the second one (Source did not know the name of the other code clerk).

14. CLERICAL EMPLOYEES. In addition to Adamina VASQUEZ Caparo (wife of Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Cato, First Secretary) who works as secretary to Ambassador ALARCON, and Mercedes SALGADO Hernandez (wife of Jorge REYES Vega, Second Secretary) who is the Telex operator, Source believes that two other wives of CMUN officers also work part-time in the CMUN. One of these females is preg- nant, and may be married to one of the code clerks. Source thinks that the other might be the wife of Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin, Third Secretary (her name is Juana CKUZ Fernandez), but was not at all sure of this identification.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 80

INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELGIN" ON 19 OCTOBER 68

CURAN PERSONALITIES OF LOCAL INTEREST, BUT NOT NOW IN NEW YORK,

1.  Nicolas RODRIGUEZ Astiazzrain, Former CUN Counsellor. Source stated that RODRIGUEZ is now the head of the Czech (and possibly the Hungarian) Desk, Directorate of "Socialist Countries", Foreign Ministry. He is now divorced from his wife, Magaly MESTRE Pintado, and reportedly will marry Lohania Josefina ARUCA Alonso, who was a member of the Cuban Delegation to the 22nd UN General Assembly in the Fall of 1967. RODRIGUEZ was not in any known difficulties or trouble when he returned to Cuba in early March 1968; he did do a short stint of "voluntary" cane-cutting after his return, but this is particularly required of members of the Cuban CP (of which he has been a member for some years).

2.  Marta JIMENEZ Martinez, Member of Cuban 22nd UNGA Delegation. Source does not believe that JIMENEZ will attend any portion of the 23rd UNGA this year. She is the Deputy Chief of the Directorate of International Organizations of the Foreign Ministry; since the Chief of that Directorate is in New York for the 23rd UNCA, Jose FERNANDEZ COSSIO Rodriguez, Source believes that JIMENEZ could not be absent from Cuba at the same time. Source stated that JIMENEZ is very close to Fidel CASTRO, and at times has by-passed Foreign Minister Raul ROA to go directly to Fidel on certain questions.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 81

# SECRET

INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELGIN" ON 19 OCTOBER 68

PHYSICAL LAY-OUT OF THE CURAN UN MISSION (CARIN)

1. BASEMENT -- contains a kitchen and storage rooms.

2. GROUND FLOOR -- reception area; archives of unclassified UN (mostly) documents and papers; telex machine room; offices of Justo Cesar CELABERT Martinez, Attache, and Mercedes SALGADO Hernandez (wife of Jorge REYES Vega, Second Secretary). GELABERT, a member of DSE, replaced Ramon MARTINEZ Suarez as "Portero" of the CMON. SALGADO (reported last year by the same Source as a member of the DSE) is the Telex operator.

3. SECOND ELCOR-- office of Ambassador Ricardo ALARCON Quesada (runs along the front side of the CMUN on East 67th Street); reception salon for visitors; large office occupied by Antonio DE SOUZA Carvajal, Advisor; smaller office occupied by Gustavo Adolfo PLAZA Peterssen, Attache, and Adamina VASQUEZ Caparo (wife of Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Gato, First Secretary). VASQUEZ is acting as secretary to Ambassador ALARCON.

4. THIRD FLOOR -- mostly living quarters; large common room; library; Rolando CONDE Figueredo, Attache (who is the chauffeur), lives on this floor; there are also several offices, occupants unknown.

5. FOURTH FLOOR -- entire floor is occupied by DGI personnel. (Last year, the Source reported that the DGI occupied the third floor; what Source actually meant was that the DGI had the third floor per European style of reference, which is the American fourth floor).

6. FIFTH FLOOR -- more living quarters (presumably the residential occupants of the CMUN, other than CONDE, live on this floor).

# SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 82

INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELGIN" ON 19 OCTOBER GS

MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION ON OFFICIAL CUBAN COMMUNITY

1.  Alfonso VILLACORTA, Prensa Latina. Source stated that VILLACORTA is disgusted with the cuban regime, but has stayed on with Prensa Latina here because his brother is in prison in Cuba. Source believes that VILLACORTA would defect were his brother ever able to get out of Cuba. VILLACORTA cordially dislikes the CMUN and its personnel. VILLACORTA, who has been reportedly pro-Chinese in the past, has no deep political convictions, according to Source. Jose Antonio RARAZA Vasquez, a member of the Cuban Delegation to the 23rd UN General Assembly this year, has spent quite a bit of time with VILLACORTA in the past month. Source thinks that VILLACORTA may be homosexual.

2.  Relations between the CMUN and the local Prensa Latina Office. Source said that relations between the two offices continue to be marked with ill-feeling on both sides. The CMUN personnel look down on the two Prensa Latina employees, and the latter are well aware of this condescending attitude.

3.  CMUN Morale. Source claimed that morale is high within the CMUN regarding Cuba's current status in the world. In response to a question as to whether VIERA and JIMENEZ resented the arrival of PRENDES and BOZA, and the consequent "demotion" of the first two within the DGI hierarchy here, Source indicated that he had seen no manifestations of resentment on the part of either VIERA or JIMENEZ. Source believed that this was mainly because both PRENDES and FOZA have long been senior to VIERA and JIMENEZ.

4.  Proportion of Intel/Security Personnel within the CMUN. Of the 16 officers of the CMUN, 12 are believed to be affiliated with either the DGI, DSE, or DIER (the affiliation now thought for the code clerks). PRENDES, BOZA, VIERA, JIMENEZ, MORALES, and REYES are known to be DGI officers. PINERO is a presumed DGI officer. SANTANA is either DCI or DSE. ESPINOSA and GELABERT are known DSE. AGUILERA is known to be either DSE or DIER (Investigations Department of the Rebel ...). PEREZ is suspect DSE or DIER. Only four CMUN personnel are without any intelligence or security affiliation: Ambassador ALARCON, DE SOUZA, PLAZA, and CONDE.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 83

# INFORMATION OBTAINED FROM SOURCE "ELGIN" ON 10 OCTOBER 68

CUBAN PERSONALITIES, 23rd UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY DELEGATION

1. Jose FERNANDEZ COSSIO Rodriguez. Director of International Organizations, Cuban Foreign Ministry. Now gets along well with Foreign Minister Raul ROA, but at one time he led the "anti-ROA Mafia" within the Ministry. Major ambition at this time is to become an Ambassador in one of the more prestigious posts abroad. Interestingly, he is a distant relative of Raul RCA. Has been a member of the Cuban CP for 4/5 years. Source said that FERNANDEZ COSSIO is "making a career of Cormanism", meaning that he makes the system work for him but is not ideologically oriented. He is a "loner", and his only real friend is the head of Directorate of Socialist Countries of the Cuban Foreign Ministry, who once saved the life of FERNANDEZ COSSIO during BATISTA days. Source terms FERNANDEZ COSSIO a superficial person, not an intellectual type, and interested in living comforteply and having money to spend.

2. Fernando ALVAREZ Tabio. Not pro-Communist and not really pro- CASTRO. A political rationalizer who is happy with the regime that allows him to lead his own life. Would not consider defection unless the regime changed its attitude toward him, which is not likely, according to Source.

3. Jose Antonio RABAZA Vassuez. RABAZA is, in Source's belief, a homosexual (consistent with other reporting on RABAZA). He works in International Organizations of the Foreign Ministry under Marta JIMENEZ Martinez, Deputy Chief. While in New York, RABAZA has been very friendly with Alfonso VILLACORTA of the local Prensa Latina office. Source believes that VILLACORTA at least has tendencies toward homosexuality himself. (RABAZA is very close to Osmani CIENFUEGOS in Cuba, and the latter has protected him in the Foreign Ministry (other reporting has indicated that RABAZA found himself in difficulties with the regime after an assignment în Rome; he spent close to a year in prison). According to Source, CIENFUEGOS spoke up for RABAZA and this is why he still is in tre Foreign Ministry. RABAZA does not associate with others in the Delegation or in the CMUN; he spends little time in the UN Delegates Lounge, contrary to others in the Delegation. Source characterized his behavior as "mysterious", and suspects that RABAZA may be practicing his sexual proclivities here. He is well-educated and speaks several languages. He considers himself to be a good poet.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 84

SECRET

4. Technical Assistants of the Delegation. Source stated that all of the Technical Assistants of the Delegation are members of the DGI, the external intelligence service. All have now departed New York. During their stay, Source observed that all spent their time with DGI officers assigned to the CMUN. The only Technical Assistants personally known by Source are Ramon SANCHEZ-PARODI Montoto, Alvaro TAMAYO Fonseca, Rene VALENZUELA Acebal, and Eduardo ARAOZ Agero. Source did not know of any specific duties or missions of any of the Technical Assistants. He commented that TAMAYO was a close friend of Alberto BOZA Hidalgo-Gato, First Secretary of the CMUN, who specializes in "Black Power" matters in New York. Source does not know if any more Technical Assistants will come to New York. during the 23rd UNGA.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 85

CABLE SECRETARIAT CASSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

ADVANCE COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**
(When Filled In)

TOTAL COPIE

GROUP I

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY

1

6

2

7

3

8

4

9

5

10

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO.

A-REF TO FILE NO.

DISSEM BY:

9

ACTION:

WH/COG8

INFO FILE. VR.

RID COPY

FILE NID RET. TO

BRANCH ☐ DESTROY ☐ SIG.

RITAN. EURG WH8

SECRET 181700Z OCT 68 CITE LONDON 7780 180CT68 16325

DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF A DIRECTOR 42495

B OELA 49969

C OELA 50017

1. RE PARA 3 REF A. POUCHING ADDITIONAL NAMES

UNDER REF C.

2. DEFER FILE.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 86

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI FILE NO.

DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. DATE

SOURCE CRYPTONYM DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION

DATE PROCESSED

DISSEMINATED IN DATE

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

TRANSFERRED TO
RI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665
201-009239
SEX M DUB ?
UNDA-03263A02
16 UCT 67
CIT ?
OCC ?
RE TRIP TO NEW YORK AS CITED BY SUBJ
OF 201-009397

WAS RYDAT

R 6901032527

FILE IN 201-332665

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 87

# SECRET

ORIO: D. RYAN; pfd
UNIT: WH/COG/OPS
EXT: R1819.
DATE: 16 OCTOBER 1968

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

COMPI: WH/COG8

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: SECRET 3

OUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SLEN BY

IN DILE
DESTROY
RETURN TO BRANCH FILE RID

FILE IN CE FILE NO. 201-332665

RID COPY
INFO: VR RILAN, EURG. WH8

Clicilops. <1/102 F12(whire)

(date and tune fited)
42495

(retaronce, number)
TO: MADRID INFO: LONDON 17 27 z Ост 63

CITE DIRECTOR
TYPIC

REF: LONDON 7682 (BEING RELAYED MADRID)* (IN 13417)

1. REQUEST MADRID CABLE NAMES AND TRAVEL DATA ALL CUBAN
   COURIERS OR EMBASSY INSPECTORS WHO HAVE ARRIVED OR DEPARTED MADRID
   SINCE MID-SEPTEMBER 68. AUDIO TECHNICIANS KNOWN USE THIS COVER WHEN
   TRAVELLING ABROAD ON SWEEPING MISSIONS.

2. NOTE THAT ROGELIO (RODRIGUEZ) LOPEZ ARRIVED MADRID 19
   SEPT 68 PER MADRID-6153. RODRIGUEZ IDENTIFIED BY AMCLOCK/1 OCT 67
   AS CUBAN EMBASSY INSPECTOR. WOULD APPRECIATE ANY DETAILS AVAILABLE
   ONWARD TRAVEL BY RODRIGUEZ AFTER ARRIVAL SPAIN. MADRID-6211 INDICATED
   HE PLANNED ARRIVE MADRID 16 SEPTEMBER IN TRANSIT GUINEA. CAN THIS BE
   CONFIRMED?

3. LONDON: TO ASSIST IN EFFORT IDENTIFY PERSONS WHO CONDUCTED
   SWEEP, SUGGEST SMOTH BE QUERIED FOR NAMES ALL CUBAN OFFICIALS WHO
   HAVE ARRIVED UK SINCE MID-SEPTEMBER 68. CS COPY

4. FILE 201-332665. END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT: *Reported unknown persons conducted sweep of new Cuban Embassy building London during period 3-9 Oct 63;

COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 88

ORIO

UNITI

EXT:

DATE:: `SEP 21`

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

BY

COMPI

RID COPY

(classification)

SECRET

MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

FILE RID

NO INDEX

FILE IN CE FILE NO. `M.DED`

INFO

FILE

PAGE TWO

(date and time filed)

(olcite)

(cica)

(reference number)

CITE DIRECTOR `43455`

TO

SMOTH requested info re possible identities of persons who conducted sweep.

JAR

MAY 2 1 69

JOHN L. HART

C/EUR

RELEASING OFFICER

C/WH/COG

EUR/CUBA

EUR/BC/UK Ed Wilt (phone) WILLIAM V. BROE

C/WHD

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COPY NO.

REPRODUCED BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFF I PROHIBITED.

`GROUP I`

Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 89

CABLE SECRETARIAT SEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

CLA'ED MESSAGE

**SECRET**
(When Filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUEO
SLOTTED
TOTAL COPIES
GROUP I
ROL
AND/OR INITIAL
SEF BY
1
6
2
7
INDER
VES
NO
3
8
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-332665
4
9
5
10
BY
AT
DISSEN DY
PER
A-REF TO FILE NO.
BRANCH
ACTION
FILE RID RET TO
DESTROY SIG.
9/11/2065
RID COPY
FILE. VR.
INFO

SECRET 101134Z OCT 68 CITE MADRID 6310
JMCOBRA INFO DIRECTOR, PANAMA CITY

REF: JMCOBRA 1158 (04422)

1. QUAXE-1 REPORTED DEPARTURE THELMA ESTHER (KING) HARRISON FOR CUBA ON IEERIA FLIGHT 941,
9 OCTOBER. KING NEITHER MET NOR ACCOMPANIED BY CUBAN OFFICIALS. QUAXE-1 SAID THAT KING NOT IN
TRANSIT WHEN BOARDED AIRCRAFT THUS PROBABLY ARRIVED MADRID 7 OR 8 OCTOBER. WE WILL CHECK QUTIMID AND
QUDOZE FOR ANY ACTIVITY.

2. FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action is authorized:

Signed:

R.O. #163 - Unit

Note: If destruction, cite reasons and coord if appropriate

CS COPY

SECRET

10 Oct 68
201--332665

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 90

# SECRET

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIPIFO

ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED

BY:
AT:

DISSEM: 24
ACTION:
FILE RIO RET, TO
INFO:
C/WH/COG-5 RID COPY
FILE. VR..
BRANCH:
DESTROY SIG.
C/WH-6 C/EUR-4 C/RIED C/CI
C/FF-2, DDP, AddP
HOBR

SECRET 022115Z OCT 68 CITE JMCOBRA 1158

PANAMA CITY, MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

MADRID

RYBAT/TYPIC (1W04307)

REF: MADRID 6211 (NOT SENT PANAMA CITY)

1. LNERGO ADVISED STATION 2 OCTOBER THELMA KING

TRANSITED MIAMI 29 SEPTEMBER TO CATCH PANAM FLIGHT
114 FROM NEW YORK TO PARIS. HER TRAVEL INTERESTING
IN LIGHT TRAVEL ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ PER REF,
AND STATION WOULD APPRECIATE ANY ADDITIONAL INFO
FROM MADRID.

2. FOR PANAMA: STATION FILES REFLECT ROGELIO
   RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ A DGI CASE OFFICER, WHO HAS HAD
   CONTACT WITH LATIN AMERICANS IN THE PAST, AMONG
   THEM THELMA KING.

3. FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

RECORDS OFFICER STAMP

The following action is
authorized:

Signed:

R.O. #463 Unit
Note: If destruction, cite reasons and coordinate if appropriate.

CS COPY

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 91

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

TED MESSAGE
TO: A, C, C/ES
RC G AND/OR INITIALS SEEN BY
SECRET
1
6
(When File. 2
7
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
3
8
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX: YES NO
4
9
5
10
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO: 201-332665

X-REF TO FILE NO:
DISSEM BY:
FILE PID RET. TO
BRANCH DESTROY SIG.
ACTION
INFO RID COPY
FILE VR: WH/8, EUR-6, RI/AN, C/Ops, CI/IC-2, FE-2

SECRET 021701Z OCT SS CITE MADRID 211
20168 11.04307
JMCOBRA INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF: JMCOBRA 1122 (JN 02373)

1. QUTIMID 15 SEPTEMBER SAID THAT RODRIGUEZ

ARRIVING MADRID FOLLOWING DAY IN TRANSIT TOGORZUINEA (POSS SPANISH GUINE
REPORT ALSO SAYS

THAT RODRIGUEZ TRAVELLING WITHOUT VISA BECAUSE

HAD TO LEAVE HAVANA IN HURRY. NAME DOES NOT SHOW

ON QUOTA TRAVEL LISTS.

2. FILE 201-332665.

SECRET

B.7.

|         |
| ------- |
| All pe  |
| AB-X    |
| IH      |
| PS      |
| BX      |
| DEC/NFD |
| EF      |
| Wi/c/op |

CS COPY

SECRET

201-332665
2 Oct 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 92

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

![Cable Secretariat Dissemination Form]

D MESSAGE
SECRET
(When Filled In)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-332665
X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID RET TO
BRANCHO DESTROY SIG
INFO:
FILE: VR: RIAN, EVRG, W48 CROPS
(Excuse)

SECRET 301532Z SEP 58 CITE JMCOBRA 1122 30 SEP 68 IN 02373

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

TYPIC

REF: MADRID 6153 (N 00361)

1. ADVISE ANY INFO ACTIVITIES REF SUBJ AND ONWARD TRAVEL.

2. FILE 201-332665

SECRET

![Handwritten table with check marks]

COPY

SECRET

201-332665
30 sept 1968


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 93

SECRET

WH-8 EUR-6 REAN, CICE/OPS FE

261412 SEP 68 CITE MADRID 5153

DIRECTOR OF INFO JACOBRA

INFO WATCHLIST
2: SEP 68 00361

1. ROCELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ PP D-58-320 ARRIVED MADRID
   FROM HABANA ON IBERIAN FET: 342 SEPT 13.

FILE: C-120-20

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 94

# ROUTING AND RECORD SHEET

**INSTRUCTIONS**

**PRIOR TO FILING**

1.  Fill in Sect. 2. on back. Detach back flap and forward to RID.
2.  Destroy front cover sheet, unless-it-records significant action taken or comments requiring preservation.

**TO: ACTION BRANCH**

If file no. and title shown are not proper, insert proper file no. below and forward document to RID/AN.

FROM: *bk*

*KID/AJ*

**TO: ALL ADDRESSEES**

FILL IN SECTION 1 ON BACK, IF APPROPRIATE

COMMENTS

| TO             | ROOM NO. | DATE RECEIVED | FORWARDED | OFFICERS INITIALS |
| -------------- | -------- | ------------- | --------- | ----------------- |
| 1. _W/ REC.C_  |          | *25 SEP 1968* | *N/A*     | *Jele*            |
| 2. *W/ He/epo* |          | *26 SEP 1968* | /         | *Θ*               |
| 3.             |          |               |           |                   |
| 4.             |          |               |           |                   |
| 5.             |          |               |           |                   |
| 6.             |          |               |           |                   |
| 7..            |          |               |           |                   |
| 8.             |          |               |           |                   |
| 9.             |          |               |           |                   |
| 10.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 11.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 12.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 13.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 14.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 15.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 16.            |          |               |           |                   |
| 17. *RID/H*    |          |               |           |                   |


MICROFILMED

SEP 26 1968

DOC. MICRO. SER.

*pls attach cc/fr, nyfile*



| TRACE REQUEST | ABSTRACT *M* | FILE NUMBER (PRIMARY CODE) |
| ------------- | ------------ | -------------------------- |
|               | INDEX *X*    | *Duc-9-52*                 |

| DATE MICROFILMED | DOCUMENT DATE | DOCUMENT NUMBER |
| ---------------- | ------------- | --------------- |
|                  | *23 Sep 1968* | *HP24-04116*    |

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 95

# DISPATCH

Chief, WIL Guba

Chief, DO Divisions: Chief of fatica, JMCOBRA

Chief of Base, New York

TYPIC/DOMOPS -- Current Roster_of_Cuban_UN Mission

ACTION REQUIRED: FYI

The following is a current listing (as of 13 September 1968) of the officers assigned PCS to the Cuban Permanent Mission to the United Nations (CMUN) in New York City. Intelligence or security affiliation is also shown where applicable. The listing is in the probable order of real (as opposed to UN listing) precedence. As can be seen, the CMUN continues to upgrade both legitimate diplomatic personnel and intelligence/security personnel both in terms of quantity as well as quality.

A. Ricardo LARCON Quesada (201-347590), Ambassador and Permanent Representative;

B. Jose Raul VIERA Linares (201-328953), Counsellor, DGI officer;

C. Jesus JIMENEZ Escobar (201-749244), Counsellor, DGI officer;

D. Antonio DE SOUZA Carvajal (201-354048), Advisor (essentially a figure-head without substantive responsibilities or power);

E. Alberto DOZA Hidalgo-Gato (201-331832), First Secretary, DGI officer;

F. Orlando PRENDES Gutierrez (201-? ), First Secretary, DGI officer (presence not confirined as of 13 September, but was scheduled to arrive In September);

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Chief, WH Cuba
2 - Chief, DO Division
2 - Chief of Station, JMCOBRA

UNDA-4116

SECRET

(CONTINUED)
SEP 23 1968
20 September 1968

19-500


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 96

CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

SECRET

UNDA-4116

G. Carlos MORALES Quevedo (201-777568), First Secretary, DGI officer;

H. Jorge REYES Vega (201-816437), Second Secretary, DGI officer;

1. Lazaro ESPINOSA Bonet (201-816438), Third Secretary, DSE officer;

J. Pedro Luis PINERO Eirin (201-824376), Third Secretary, presumed DGI officer;

K. Miguel Mantil SANTANA Fraiz (201-? ), Attache, presumed DGI officer;

L. Gustavo Adolfo PLAZA Peterssen (201-805658), Attache;

M. Justo Cesar GELABERT Martinez (201-?), Attache, reportedly was with DIER_in 1961, no further information available;

N. Rafael AGUILERA Batista (201-351-149), Attache, code clerk, either DIER or DSE employee;

O. Rolando CONDE Figueredo (201-354057), Attache;

P. Rolando PEREZ Alfonso (201-?), Attache, (here according to UN records but not confirmed by LNERGO as of 4 September).

2. In recent months visas have been requested for the following officers, but they have not arrived as yet, and presumably some of them may not now be coming for one reason or another.

A. Jorge BOLANOS Suarez (201-787157), Counsellor-designate, was due to arrive in late August but presence has not been confirmed;

B. Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665), First Secretary-designate, DGI officer, visa requested in April 1968 with no further information available as to whether he will come (presumably he will not);

C. Cecilia ANDRE Sardain (201- ? ), Second Secretary-designate, same ETA status as Rogelio RODRIGUEZ above.

3. VIERA Linares serves as Charge d'Affaires in the absence of Ambassador ALARCON Quesada. Up to this point, neither the Base nor LNERGO have been able to state evidentially as to whether VIERA or JIMENEZ Escobar is the sucessor to Chafik Homero SAKER Zenni (left PCS October 1967) as the DGI Station Chief. We both, however, tend to regard JIMENEZ as carrying the most weight in terms of operational activity and in terms of effectiveness. Now, with the arrival of BOZA Hidalgo-Gato (who reportedly has been the deputy to Ramon OROZA Naveran, head of U.S. operations for the DGI, per our last *information*), it remains to be seen if BOZA figures higher in the local hierarchy than VIERA or JIMENEZ. With JIMENEZ, VIERA, BOZA, and PRENDES Gutierrez, the local DGI station has more ranking talent than has been the norm. The Cubans do not necessarily slot their intelligence officers in Mission titles equivalent to their true ranks and responsibilities.

SECRET

CONTINUED

PAGE NO.
2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 97

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

UNDA-4116

4. In terms of vulnerability from the LNHARP standpoint, the intelligence/security personnel at this point appear to offer little in the way of approach potential, Jorge BOLANOS Suarez (if he comes) and Gustavo Adolfo PLAZA Peterssen, on the basis of known information, seen the likeliest targets for us as of now. Both the Base and LNERGO, however, continue to look at all of them in this regard.

5. It will be noted from the above that of the 16 CMUN personnel now here, 8 are identified DGI/DSE, 2 are presumed DG1, and 1 (GELABERT) may be DSE or DIER. The percentage of personnel involved with intelligence/ security thus ranges from a minimum of 50% up to 69% of the total CMUN personnel strength.

6. The number of official Cubans in New York will, of course, be swelled by the arrival of the Cuban Delegation to the 23rd UN General Assembly this month. We have requested, via DO BASE/NEW YORK 4844, traces on the 8 of the 12 man delegation on whom we hold no information.

Howard G. FIGALAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 98

FBI doc. (x-ref)
24 Apr: 68
Re: Rodriquez Lopez, Rogelio

FBI doc.
30 Nov. 67 (NY)
Re: Rogelio Rodriguez
no Bufile given

FRI doc.
6 Oct. 67 (Ny)
Re: Cuban Mission to the United.
Nations
no Bufile given


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 99

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES: 21

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FILE PIDO: FETICHE
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

C/WH/CO6S RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

FILE, ERDDC, c/CI, c/FE12, c/WH, c/DO2, c/EUR4, c/SBS

SECRET 29211SZ CITE WAVE 9521 (STEADMAN ACTING)

DO BASE/NEW YORK INFO DIRECTOR

## KAPOK TYPIC AMCLOCK

REF: DO BASE/NEW YORK 3359((U)61764)

1. FOLL ARE STATION TRACES JESUS (JIMENEZ) ESCOBAR (201-749244): NAVY CAPTAIN OF *SIERRA MAESTRA*; STUDIED AT MARITIME SCHOOL NEAR HAVANA; FROM COMMIE FAMILY (REVOLUCION NEWSPAPER, 4 JAN 62). GRADUATED KARIEL NAVAL ACADEMY AS NAVIGATOR FOR CUBAN MERCHANT MARINE: CA 1966 DECK OFFICER FOR NAMBISAS; 1961 SENT SOV BLOC TO ASSUME CAPTAINCY OF SHIP *SIERRA MAESTRA*; INCOMPETENT AND THUS UNDER ORDERS OF GERMAN OFFICERS ON FIRST TRIPS *SIERRA MAESTRA*; MARRIED GERMAN GIRL, MONIKA, DURING TRIP TO GERMANY; MID-62 HAD ACCIDENT WITH SHIP AND LOST JOB OF CAPTAIN; COMPLETELY INTEGRATED WITH REGIME (AMOT-54, 13 OCT 63). TRAVELLED MEXICO-HAVANA 12 JULY 65 (CUBANA AIRLINES MANIFEST). COMMERCIAL POLICY SPECIALIST, MINCEX, DELEGATE GATT MEETING URUGUAY JAN 67 (SENSITIVE REPORT, JAN 67 AND MONTEVIDEO-2775, 16 JAN 67). BORN 16 SEPT 35; NAMBISAS RLP STATIONED HAVANA AS OF EARLY 67; FORMERLY WARCIAS REP ROTTERDAM; KNOWN AROUND SHIPPING LINES AS COMMIE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 100

PAGE 2 JMWAVE 552: SECRET
(DJR-67530, 18 JAN 57).

2. ONLY STATION TRACE JORGE E. (REYES) VEGA (201-816457)
   IS ASSIGNMENT UN MISSION NEW YORK 15 APR 67 (SENSITIVE REPORT
   DATED MAY 57).

3. FOLLOWING FYI ARE SUMMARY STATION TRACES SUBJS PARA 2
   REF:

A. ALBERTO MANUEL (BOZA) HIDALGO-CATO (201-331632);
EMPLOYEE CUBAN CONSULATE WHEN IT LOCATED SAVANNAH, GEORGIA,
FORMER CUBAN CONSUL TORONTO, CANADA, DECLARED PERSONA NON
GRATA CANADA NOS 62 FOR CARRYING UNREGISTERED FIREARMS;
SUSPECT CUIS OFFICER.

B. JOAQUIN CAMILO (GARCIA ALONSO). BORN 16 AUG 37,
HAVANA, PSP MEMBER SINCE 1957; BEGAN WORKING FOR G-2 IN MID-
59; LATE 59 COMMISSIONED AS AIDE AND SECOND CHIEF OF G-2
ISLE OF PINES; 1958 DESCRIBED AS SECOND LIEUTENANT G-2; LATE
64 OR EARLY 61 WORKED IN DEPT OF REGIONAL POLITICS, MINREX;
EARLY 61 REPORTED AS G-2 OFFICER IN HAVANA; CIRCA 62 REPORTED
WORKING AS G-2 AGENT IN "DIRECCION DE POLITICA COMERCIAL CON
LA AMERICA LATINA" IN MINISTRY INTERNAL COMMERCE, AND IN THIS
POSITION IN DIRECT CONTACT WITH MANUEL PINEIRO.

PAGE 3 JMWAVE 552

C. ROGF


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 101

# PAGE 3 JHWAVE 521-SECRET

C. KOGELIO (RODRIGUEZ) LOPEZ (261-332655): BORN 3 MAY

2, HAVANA; IDENTIFIED AS DGI OFFICER BY AMMUG/1, ANSEES/1,
AMSKIFF/S, AND AMAGOB/1; STATIONED CUBAN EMBASSY MEXICO 1962
APR 65, DURING WHICH TIME HE BELIEVED HAVE ACTED AS DEPUTY
CHIEF DGI MEXICO; ASSIGNED DGI HAS SINCE APR 65; HAS SERVED
AS CASE OFFICER FOR NUMEROUS CLANDESTINE CUIS OPS IN MEXICO
AND CENTRAL AMERICA; APPEARS TO BE EXTREMELY COMPETENT, WELL
TRAINED AND DEDICATED DGI OFFICER.

4. NO IDENT STATION TRACES GONZALO (DIAZ) DIAZ EXCEPT
   FACT HE ATTENDING PRESENT SESSION URGA.

5. RE PARA 3 REF, ONLY PARODI STATION FILES WHO CONNECTED
   WITH CUIS IS RAMON (SANCHEZ-PARODI) HORTOIO (261-777320), ON
   WHOM THERE FOLL POSSIBLE TRACES: G-2 AGENT WHO TRAVELLED U.S.
   AND MEXICO ON GOC MISSIONS (DBA43319, 31 DEC 62); SELF-
   ADMITTED G-2 AGENT HAVANA (004-3,218,556, 8 SEPT 62); G-2
   AGENT WHO ARRIVED U.S. 30 OCT 60 (WH/COG/CE CARD); MEMBER
   G-2 SECTION, MINREX, WORKING IN DEPT KNOWN AS "DIVISION DE
   ASUNTOS LATINO AMERICANOS" (DBF-82892, 5 JULY 51); G-2 AGENT
   SIERRA MORENA, LAS VILLAS (UFK-138, 21 SEPT 62); DSE OFFICER
   HAVANA (SUBJS FATHER, MAY 65): SPOCHING PHOTO OF 261-777320


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 102

# 14-00000

ACTION REQUEST: As stated below

REFERENCES: None

1. Attached please find pertinent Headquarters traces on the following members of Cuban delegation to the United Nations XXII General Assembly:

a. Fernando ALVAREZ Tabio.

b. Nora JIMENEZ Martinez

c. Lohania Josefina APUCA Alonso

d. Joaquin Camillo GARCIA Alonso

e. Alberto Manuel ROZA Hidalgo-Cato

f. Rogelio HENRIQUEZ Lepas

There are no Headquarters traces on Gonzalo DIAZ Diaz, another member of the Cuban delegation. Traces on other members of the delegation were forwarded earlier.

CONTINUED

Attachments:
Hqs. traces (h/w)

Distribution:
3 - C/FIOP, New York (w/att h/w)
2 - COS, JMWAVE (w/att h/w)


OSS REFERENCE TO
DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
DATE
CO COPY
UDWH-1032
26 SEP 1967
CLASSIFICATION
HQS FILE NUMBER
S-E-C-R-E-T
201-009239-

ORIGINATING
OFFICE
EXT.
Typed: 21 Sept. 67
WH/COS/FI A.J. Vestewheiffer:fig
5061

DISTRIBUTION:
COORDINATING
OFFICES
OFFICER'S NAME
1 - WH/COS/FI
AC/WH/C/ST William K.
1 - WH/COS/MO
1 - WH/COS/CICS
C/WH/C/CICS Harry T. Mahoney
1 - HQ/I/WH
1 - WH/LEG
DE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 103

CLASSIFICATION

2. New York State S-2 has an informant in the CPC N.Y. Dist. (AKA the N.Y. Section) who has advised that Bela H. Kovacs is in reality a spy for the Hungarian Communist government and is a member of the Communist Party of Hungary. He has been receiving intelligence and/or courier services for the Hungarian Cominform party, Budapest.

GEORGE H. RIDDECK

FORM
6-64 53a
USE PREVIOUS EDITION
CLASSIFICATION
S-E-C-R-E-T
CONTINUED
PAGE NO.
2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 104

SECRET

## Reselio Rob HARRY Lopez (MNU-31488)

Rodriguez was stationed in Mexico City as a Third Secretary from 1981 to April 1985. He has been identified by a number of reliable sources as a DGI official, involving ROLD/1 who stated Rodriguez used following alias: Eduardo, Cantarino, Jose Antonio. He was the case officer for AKR03 using dia Rial for quite some time prior to his return to Cuba from Mexico. He was one of two Cuban diplomats who were disrupted at the airport in Mexico City by Mexican officials in December 1961.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 105

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Immigration and Naturalization Service

Instructions: Any handwritten entries shall be in block capital letters. All Spanish names shall be hyphenated with the father's name first and the mother's name following.

Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Department of Justice
Washington, D. C. 20535

FILE NO. (If any)

DATE
Sept. 20, 1987

The alien listed below has been admitted to the United States under the provisions of Section 101 (a) 15 (A) or Section 101 (a) 163 of the Immigration and Nationality. Act.

FAMILY NAME (Cape Mers)
RODRIGUES Lopez,

COUNTRY OF CITIZENSHIP
Cuba

First Name
Rogelio

Middle Initial

UNITED STATES ADDRESS (Number, Street, City, State, Zip Code)
6 East 67th St. New York, N.Y.

AIRLINE AND FLIGHT NO. OR VESSEL OF ARRIVAL
PAA 206

Number, Street, City, Province (State) and Country of PERMANENT RESIDENCE
Calle 30 #307, Babana, Cuba

BIRTH DATE
5-3-42

BIRTH PLACE
Habana Cuba

FILE/N2-352665X

DATE AND PLACE OF ADMISSION
9-19-67 Preinspection at Nassau for NYC arrival

PURPOSE AND LENGTH OF ADMISSION
To Attend UN Session for duration of session.

DESTINATION
Cuban Mission to UN NY.C.

Other agencies are requested to furnish any derogatory subversive information regarding this alien to the F. B. Ι.

cc: C.I.A.
G-2
0.5.1.
State Dept.
ΟΝ.Ι.

Deputy Associate Commissioner
Travel Control


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 106

DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF SECURITY

FROM: MBSaladino

DATE: 9/15/67

NAME: Rogelio RODRIQUEZ Lopez

DATE OF BIRTH: 5/3/1942

PLACE OF BIRTH: Havana

ALIASES AND NICKNAMES:

SEX: m

MARITAL STATUS: uk

CITIZENSHIP: Cuban

ADDRESS:

OCCUPATION AND NAME AND ADDRESS OF EMPLOYER: Technical Assistant

ADDITIONAL IDENTIFYING DATA:
Member, Cuban Delegation to 22nd Session UNGA.

CONTROL: Visa Office

DATE: 9/15/67

REASON FOR REQUEST: V 31 7 CUBA (TWENTY SECOND DELEGATION UNCA)

NAME OR REQUESTING OFFICER: SCA: VO: MBSaladino:ms

RESULTS OF THIS REQUEST FOR SECURITY INFORMATION:

*   NO RECORD
*   NO DEROGATORY INFORMATION
*   SECURITY INFORMATION ATTACHED
*   OTHER (Use reverse side for reporting)

CHECKED BY:

DATE:

III FOR USE OF OFFICE OF SECURITY:
Refer to CSC1 3/782,061 dtd 29 Juncy
CSC1 316/00696-64 dtd 25 Augly
and to the FBI

![Signature and date 18/9/67]

18 SEP 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 107

Dept. of State
# 272 (mexico)
13. Sep. 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 108

## CLIFTON ROBERSON:mjr
UNIT WH/COG/CICS
EXT. 7447/9003
DATE 15 JUNE 1967

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS - SEEN BY

*   6
*   7
*   8
*   9
*   10
*   12

LIAISON DESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH FILE BID
NO INDEX FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-332665
INFO FILE VR WH 8, cu/CPS, a/c, Fl

FILINT 2

16 23 46 Z
CITE DIRECTOR 11931

SECRET
MEXICO CITY INFO: JMWAVE
TYPIC/WATCHLIST
REF: MEXICO CITY 1764 (IN 88532)

SENSITIVE SOURCE INFO INDICATES ROGELIO (RODRIGUEZ)
LOPEZ, DGI OFFICER WHO ARRIVED MEXI 12 JUNE 67, IS DELEGATE
CONFERENCE ON NATIONAL COMMISSIONS OF UNESCO MEETING MEXICO.
REQUEST STATION REVIEW SC WASH 65760 RE SUBJECT ACTIVITIES
AND/OR POSSIBLE TRAVEL PLANS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH/COG/COMMENT: SUBJ ARRIVED MEXICO 12 JUNE 67

C/WH/COG/CICS H. T. MAHONEY (DRAFT)
WH/1/MEXICO

![signature of william v. broe]
WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD

201-332665
16 June 1967

![signature of Earl S. Williamson]
EARL S. WILLIAMSON
AC/WH/COG

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 109

A PRESIDENT FOR CLAIMS OFFICE DESIGANTE.

MEXICAN VISA REQUISITES FOR DESIGNATE

1. MANANA: MARIARETA (414)

2. MEXICO CITY: FOREIGN MINISTRY -- ROOM 228

THE UNDERSIGN PLOTKIN HIMSELF, HAS A VISA ON THE DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT OF MANUEL MARFIL RODRIGUEZ, A COLLEAGUE OF THE COMPETENCY OF WRITERS COMPETITIONS OF MEXICO,
WHICH WILL BE HELD IN MEXICO. PLEASE SEND INSTRUCTIONS BY CABLE.

THE STAFF :


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 110

SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION

RI.FILE NO.

3. DISPATCH ON SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO.

6. DATE

SOURCE CRYPTOWYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION

ANALYST

DATE PROCESSED

10. DISSEMINATED IN

11. DATE

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE

13. TRANSFERRED TO
    DI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

RODRIGUEZ-LOPEZ, ROGELIO
201-332665
201-257691
SEX M DUB ?
HMMA-31788
11 APR.67
CIT MEXICO
P11
OCC ?
ALL THROUGH FILE, PER LILNVOY REPORTS, EVIDENCE OF REG/FREQUENT CONTACT BETWEEN NOVICKY AND IATSKY OF SUV. EMO, AS WELL AS WITH SUBJ OF CUBAN EMBASSY.
POSSIBLE INTEL CONTACT OF CSR 2ND SECY OLDRICH NOVICKY /201-257691/.

R 6704190723

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-332665


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 111

INDEX: □ YES □ NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-24213 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE B TOTAL COPIES 27
SECRET
1-DEF TO FILE NO.
FILE BID □ RET. TO BRANCH □
DESTROY □ SIG.
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FROM:
8
ACTION
ADVANCE COPY
UNIT TIME BY
INFO WH/CCG 8 ☑RID COPY □ ISSUED □ SLOTTED □ TUBED
FILE: VR, WH 8, CI CI/OPS, CI/C 2, FI, FI/INT 2
SECRET 130029Z CITE MEXICO CITY (146)
13 Jun 67 88532
DIRECTOR, JMWAVE
TYPIC WATCHLIST
ROGELIO (RODRIGUEZ) LOPEZ (201-332665), CUBAN DIP PPT ZZ
D 66 627 ARRIVED MEXICO FROM HAVANA 12 JUNE ACCORDING TO LIFIRES.
NO INFO AVAILABLE ON REASON FOR TRIP OR POSSIBLE TRAVEL FROM
MEXICO.
SECRET
BT

![AN FI ABSTRACT]

ZZ PROCESSED 20/6/67

201-332665
13 June 67


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 112

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

☑ RID COPY

SECRET 251112 CITE MAD ID 9217

DIRECTOR INFO JEWAVE

KETWAY PERUMEN KHAPPON 256. 46050

IBERIA FLI 542 ARRIVED MADRID FROM HAVA 21 NOV W/137 F

CUBA OFFICIALS WERE: OCTAVIO COTON BUSTAMANTE PP-EF-65-705;
CYUIS 737-54737 EF-55-3472; ABDUCTO PRIETO PP-3-64-18;

JOSE GONZALEZ SJOSTROM PP-2-65-1358; GUIDO SANCHEZ ROBERT PE-0-5;

MERCEDES LLANES GARCIA PP--65-599: RAMON RAMIREZ SJO PP-D-CS-5215

NEOR ALVAREZ SALERO PP-E-55-1353; JORG FCAD IZ CABRERA SPEA

ROORIGUEZ LOPEZ PP-0-55-6371

SECRET

201-332665


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 113

# MESSAGE FORM

TOTAL COrirs 20

*   E.SCOUGIN:mot
*   WII/COG/CICS
*   2578
*   DATE 25 November 1966

SECRET

ROUTING:

1.  CI CA-PA
2.  ETC RO
3.  PT

O DESTROY O RETURN TO BRANCH

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH/IC/RID COPY

INFO: VR. FILE: WH-8EUR-8, CI/ops

CI/IC-2, FI

28 19 42 Z CITE DIRECTOR 55146

TO INADRID INFO: JMWAVE MEXICO CITY

TYPIC WATCHLIST
9813

REF: MADRID (IN 45905)

1.  ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ IDENTIFIED AS DGI OFFICER PSEUDOS BY AMMUG/1, AMSESS/1, AMSKIFF/5 AND AMKNOB/1. HAS USED EDUARDO, CASIMIRO, JOSE ANTÓNIO AND RAUL.

2.  STATIONED CUBAN EMBASSY MEXICO CITY 1962 THROUGH APRIL 1965. BEGAN ASSIGNMENT AS THIRD SECRETARY AND PROMOTED TO SECOND SECRETARY 63. NOVEMBER 64 IDEN, AGENT PENETRATION OF THE YOUNG COMMUNISTS OF HONDURAS (JCH), A REVOLUTIONARY ORGANIZATION, SENT MEXICO BY JCH WITH PACKAGE TO TURN OVER TO CUBAN WHO WOULD CONTACT HIM. IDEN CONTACTED BY RODRIGUEZ TO WHOM GAVE PACKAGE. RODRIGUEZ SAID ARRANGEMENTS MADE FOR IDEN GO CUBA SAME DAY. SEVERAL HOURS LATER RODRIGUEZ AGAIN ARRIVED IDEN HOTEL, TOLD HIM NOT NECESSARY GO CUBA, GAVE HIM PACKAGE AND FIFTY DOLLARS, INSTRUCTED HIM RETURN HONDURAS OVERLAND. PACKAGES TOO WELL WRAPPED FOR IDEN TO IDENTIFY CONTENTS. RODRIGUEZ ALSO INQUIRED ABOUT SEVERAL

HONDURANS WHO ORGANIZING GUERRILLA MOVEMENT FOR JCH,
cont/
COORDINATING OFFICERS

RELEASING OFFICER 26-1 SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 114

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES:

SECRET

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

FROM DIRECTOR

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 55746

TO PAGE TWO

3. ΑΜΚΝΟB/1 IDENTIFIED RODRIGUEZ FROM PHOTO AS CURRENT CUIS
   CASE OFFICER MEXICO EARLY 65. STATED KNEW RODRIGUEZ AS RAUL.

4. REQUEST ANY INFO ONWARD TRAVEL, DESTINATION, AND ACTIVITIES
   RODRIGUEZ.

END OF MESSAGE
C/WH/COG/CICS
WH/COG/FI
WIH/COG/MO
WH/1/Mexico
E/IB/S

C/EUR
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 115

ESCOGGIN:mot
WI/COG/CICS
"2578
25 November 1966

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 50

SECRET

ROUTING
1. CI 5. CA-PA
2. FI-IC 6. IP
3. HQ
4. 8

ODESTROY RETURN TO BRANCH

DIRECTOR

WI/COG RID COPY
INFO: VA FILE WH-8, EUR-&/CT/OPS
CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET
DATE AND TIME FILED:
23 1942 Z CITE DIRECTOR 551A7
TO MADRID INFO: JMWAVE, MEXICO CITY
TYPIC WATCHLIST
4813
REFS: A.MADRID (IN 45905)
B. DIRECTOR: 55106
IDEN: BAYARDO (PAGOADA) FIGUEROA.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/COG/CICS
WH/COG/FI
WH/COG/MO
WH/1/Mexico
E/IB/S


C/EUR
RELEASING OFFICER 26-2
COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 116

*DEPT.* YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-33215 LASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES
A-REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG. SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

DISSEM P/14/C/53

ACTION WH/LOG & RID COPY ADVANCE COPY ISSUED BLOTTED TUBED

INFO FILE, IA, EUR 5, Cl, C/1/16 2) C/LAES, FI

ABSTRACT INDEX

SECRET 253951Z CITE MADRID 9813

DIRECTOR INFO JIWAVE

TYPIC MATCHLIST

25 45905

ROCELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ PP-D-66-637 ARRIVED MADRID

FROM HAVA 21 NOV IBERIA FLT 942.

SECRET

BT

201-332665.

25 Nov, 1966

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 117

FBI doc. (x-ref)
20 May '66
Re: Rodriguez Lopez, Rogelio


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 118

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Kingston

FROM: Chief, Western Hemisphere Division

SUBJECT: TYPIC/KAPOK
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665)

ACTION REQUIRED: As Indicated.

REFERENCE: DIR 98504

It is requested that the attached photograph of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (201-332665) be shown to RUABBE and RUADLIB/1 for possible identification in connection with CUIS activities. There is no information at Headquarters which indicates that Subject has been in Jamaica.

Constance M. QUILHOT

Attachment: H/W Photo

Distribution:
3 - COS/Kingston w/att

![scribbled text that reads: Jamaica]

---

CS COPY

HJKW-353

SECRET/RESENSITIZED

201-332665

9 MAY 1966

201-332665

WH/C/CICS Ida Galliner

3411

2 May 66
Distribution:
1 - WH/C/CICS
1 - WH/C/ESEC
1 - WH/7
1 - RID

C/WH/C/CICS Joseph Vidal

WH/7

FI/D/CSB

A/DCWHD/C John T. Flynn

DISPATCH


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 119

# SECRET

4ESNO

LASSIFY TO FILE

2-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RIDO RET, TO BRANCH

DESTROY SIG.

CSSIFIED MESSAGE

TOTAL COPIES

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON UNIT NOTIFIED

FROM

Im WAVE

ACTION

DC/WH/CS RID COPY ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED TUBED

FILE, UR, C/WH3, C/01, 0/F1/04 DISSEM PER 210-8

SECRET 152249Z

18 April 66 099148

KINGS INFO DIR CITE WAVE 0246

TYPIC ZRKNICK

REF KNGS 2531(97625)

1. NOTE "CELI" POSSIBLY PHONETIC FOR

"CHELE" AKA OF ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665), DGI

OFFICER NEXI UNTIL 1965, WITH INTEL INTEREST AND CONTACTS

CENTRAL AMERICA.

2. ALL WAVE INFO ON RODRIGUEZ AVAILABLE HAS..

SECRET.

CFN 0246 2531 "CELI" "CHELE" AKA ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ (201-332665)

DGI 1965 CENTRAL AMERICA. HQS

SECRET

BI

NNNN

Action -I.G.

201-332665

18 April 66


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 120

Nombre (s)

Edad

Nacionalidad Pasaporte

34 Aerolinea

Salida

19 DE JUNIO DE 19-?

Visa Mexicana Expedida ent:

Aerolinea Punto de Desembarquo

EN LA HABANA, CUBA.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 121

oce

770 0 /678 HOLA. 101.A. 1
7 BASURTO 1967.12

Orlando

150CC 1967. 13033


DISCD00 CAD 325 14 DE JULIO D. 1967.

Nox O 10 VISA DIFT CRATIC 495 ARF TDID. FOR

LEJAD DROP9D JUKIO DE 1967. ZFGO L
12 23 1957 VJO # 464.

DDLINGERE DE 1007.

Juis förline : 150 כולת

ELAJAR 1001CA TI 16 DA JURIO DE 1967.

וז


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 122

FROM SPX ON

Valentia Vasilyevich DAKULIN

201-251813

AEST WITH HUMA - 31320

13 FEBRUARY 1967

b. Non-Soviet Contacts :

45). Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez (P-7365, 201-339665), Second Secretary of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico and identified intelligence officer.

On 25 August 1961 RODRIGUEZ wanted to borrow a film from Subject (3).

![handwritten (P-7365) enclosed in a circle]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 123

FBI doc. (x-ref)

26 Dec. 66

Re: Rodriguez, Rogelio.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 124

INDEX: ☐ YES ☐ NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-33265 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE RID ☐ RET. TO BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG.

TOTAL COPIES 25

SECRET

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFILD

DEEP/25/M

ACTION

INFO

ADVANCE COPY

☑ RID COPY ☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUSED

FILE JR EURS, CI/1C2, C1/OPS, FI/INT2, C1,

ABSTRACT

SECRET 15 1822Z CITE MADRID 2236

DIRECTOR INFO JINAVE

TYPIC WATCHLIST

15 DEC to 60399

REFS: A. DIRECTOR 55 146

B. MADRID 9813 (45905)*

CHECK OF QUOTA RECORDS INDICATE ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ LEFT

MADRID FOR GENEVA 22 NOV.

SECRET

*LOPEZ ARRIVED MADRID

SECRET

BT

201-332665
15 Dec. 1966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 125

INDEXIO YES
NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 207-33166) CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES. 22

S-REF TO FILE NO
FILE DIO ACT. TO BRANCHO
DESTROY SIG.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED


REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

ACTION By 15

INFO WHICOG 8 RID COPY
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBES
UNIT TINC

FILE , UR, EUR 8. cilaes, FILINT2


SECRET 0514 13Z CITE SERN 8768
DIRECT OR INFO MADRID, MWAVE, GENEVA
5 DEC 15:: 52856

TYPIC HAT CHLIST
ANG FI
VEST
REF DIRECT OR 56955 *
ABSTRACT X INDEX

NO BERN INFO ON RODRIGUEZ. PLS ADVISE WHET HER LIAISON MAY
BE QUERIED..

SECRET

BT

* ROGELIO LOPEZ.

SECRE


201-332665-
5-Dec, 1966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 126

INDENI, ☐ YES ☑ NO

IFY TO FILE NO. RI-3327 Classified MESSAGE

X-REF TO FILE NO.

FILE ☐ RID ☐ RET. TO. BRANCH ☐

DESTROY ☐ SIG.

7-1
TOTAL COPIES.

SECRET

PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM:

By: JS

ACTION

WI/COC J ☑ RID COPY

ADVANCE COPY

☐ ISSUED ☐ SLOTTED ☐ TUSED

INFO

FILE, UR, CURS, CT, CITOPS, FI, FI/INT2

SECRET 021508Z CITE GENEVA 3457

BERN INFO DIRECTOR, JMWAVE

TYPIC WATCHLIST

REF MADRID 9882

2 DEC 51385

NO INFO AVAILABLE RE RODRIGUEZ ACTIVITIES GENEVA. DEFER

TO BERN RE POSSIBLE LIAISON COCK FOR PARA TWO REF TRAVEL INFO.

SECRET

BT

* Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

Dol- 332665

2 Dec. 1966.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 127

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 827-35105 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
REF TO FILE NO.
FILE RID RET TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG.
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES 32
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FROM:
ACTION: WH/C.G.8 RID COPY
INFO: FILE: UR, EUS! WH-8, CI/IC-2, KI/AN/ FI

SECRET 011311Z CITE MADRID 9882
ESG UFG HMM ESB
DIRECTOR, GENEVA INFO JAJAVE, MEXICO CITY, BERN

TYPIC WATCHLIST at libe

REF: DIRECTOR 55145 (NOT SENT GENEVA, SERD 3

1. LATIN AMERICAN TRAVEL RECORDS SHOW ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ-LOPEZ DEPARTED MADRID FOR GENEVA ON 22 NOV 66.

2. FOR GENEVA: RODRIGUEZ ARRIVED MADRID FROM HAVANA

21 NOV. REF REPORTED RODRIGUEZ IDENTIFIED AS "DGI OFFICER BY AMMUG-1, AMSESS-1, AMSKIFF-5 AND AMKNO-1. HAS USED PSEUDOS EDUARDO, CASIMIRO, JOSE ANTONIO AND FRAUL. REF REQUESTED ANY INFO ONWARD TRAVEL, DESTINATION, AND ACTIVITIES RODRIGUEZ.

3. INDEX RODRIGUEZ.

SECRET Rodriguez-Lopez

SECRET

MICROFILMED JAN 26 1967

201-332665
1 Dec. 1966


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 128

# SECRET

E.SCOGGIN:mot
/COG/CICS
ENT: 2578
DATE: 30 November 1966

TOTAL COPIES: 2

SECRET

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: Get 1006 RID COPY

INFO: VA, FILE EURD CI CI/OPS FI

SECRET

CITE DIRECTOR 56955

TO: GENEVA INFO: MADRID JMWAVE BECN

TYPIC WATCHLIST

REFS: A) MADRID 9813 (IN 45905) (NOT SENT GENEVA)

B) DIR 55146 (BEING RELAYED GENEVA)

C) DIR 55147 (BEING RELAYED GENEVA)

1. REF A STATED ROGELIO (RODRIGUEZ) LOPEZ, PP D-66-637, ARRIVED MADRID FROM HAVANA 21 NOV. REF B GIVES BIO DATA ON RODRIGUEZ AND REQUESTS INFO ON ONWARD TRAVEL AND ACTIVITIES. SENSITIVE INFO INDICATES RODRIGUEZ GOING GENEVA FROM MADRID.

2. REQUEST STATION PROVIDE ANY INFO POSSIBLE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/COG/CICS

WH/COG/NO

E/AS/A

E/EBS CUBA

AC/EUR/AS
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

WILLIAM V. BROE
C/WHD
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 129

FBI doc. (x-ref)

30 Mar '66

Re: Rodriguez-Lopez, Rogelio


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 130

SECRET

ACTION: WH/C8 ☑ RID COPY
FILE: J, WH8, c/105

SECRET 062350Z

DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 7727

TYPIC AMMUG

REFS: A. DIR 61329

B. MEXI 5410 (IN 01718)

1. ON 3 DEC 65 AMMUG/: REPORTED LUCIO AND RODRIGUEZ NOT IDENTICAL.

2. RE PARA 3 REF B: A/I HAS NEVER KNOWN RODRIGUEZ TO USE PSEUDO LUCIO.

SECRET QUERIED. IF RODRIGUEZ AND LUCIO
ARE IDENTICAL

CFN: 7727 61329 5410 3 DEC 65 AMMUG/1 LUCIO RODRIGUEZ NOT IDENTICAL 3 B A/1 PSEUDO

BT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 131

MESSAGE FORM
TOTAL COPIES: 2

ORIG: E.SCOCCIN:ST
UNIT : M/C/CICS
EXT: 9465
DATE: 27 NOVEMBER 1965

INDEX 84 SECRET
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-332605

TO : JAMAVE MEXICO CITY A 201-769095

FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH/C8 INFO: VR, FILE. FILE. CRID COPY RIIAN, WH8 SIG CEN
TO : WAVE INFO MEXI CITE DIR
REF: NEXT 5410* (01718)
ORDER CINCH IDENTIFICATION OF LUCIO, REQUEST WAVE ASK A/1,
WHO HAS PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED ROCELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ AS DGI OFFICER, IP
IF RODRIGUEZ AND LUCIO ARE IDENTICAL.

END OF MESSAGE

*ASPICE/1 has identified RODRIGUEZ as her CUIS CO "Lucio."

MICROFILMED
DEC 7 1969
DOC. MICRO. SER.

B 201-769095

9 NAU 65
201-332665
WILLIAM BROE
CAD
RELEASING OFFICER

C/MH/C/CICS for
M/C/MO
COORDINATING OFFICERS

JOHN Y. HART
DONTID/C
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 132

# SECRET

3 August 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Owner of Auto Bearing California License HEW 810 (Now Mexican Diplomatic Plates D-136)

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 26 July 1965 on the above subject. This office has no objection to your including information contained in our memorandum of 6 April 1965 in a report to the Bureau of International Commerce, The Bureau of Customs, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

2. It is noted that according to a usually reliable source, this automobile is currently registered to Camilo Domenech Gadea, who was Commercial Counselor of the Cuban Embassy until he left for Cuba on 10 February 1965. As of the present date, the automobile is still being used by the Cuban Embassy.

Distribution: Legal Attache

THIS INFORMATION IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE. IT MUST NOT BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

FILES: 50-2-4-A
P-7365
P-8955

SECRET

# 9534


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 133

Date: July 26, 1965 SECRET

To:

From:

Subject: OWNER OF AUTO BEARING CALIFORNIA
LICENSE HEW 810
105-4330

This document is for the use of your agency only and neither it nor its contents should be further distributed without appropriate authorization.

Reference is made to your memorandum dated April 6, 1965, captioned as above.

It is noted the automobile referred to in your memorandum is now in possession of an employee of the Cuban Embassy, which could be a violation of export laws regarding Cuba. Your approval is therefore requested to include the information in your memorandum in a report to the Bureau of International Commerce, The Bureau of Customs, and Immigration and Naturalization Service.

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 134

Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez

OFFICIAL TIME:

finance officer, pays the employees
Suspected G-2

ELICAL POSITION:

CONTACTS:

DATE OF BIRTH:

CIES: Married

?? Wife: Ester GAVILAN Rogales PP D/63/455
Children: Dolores RODRIGUEZ Baes PP D/63/456
Miguel Gustavo Fernandez RODRIGUEZ PP D/63/456

ANTONGPILE:

MOTTS HOSTIES:

SIGNATED HANDWRITING:

2D/63/454, Arrived with wife and 2 children 8 July 1963

SUBSEQUENT THAEL: Was previously assigned to Mexico, left late Sept 1962

> [Figure] Photographs of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez and his wife, Ester GAVILAN Rogales. The photo of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez was taken on 5 AUG 1963 and the photo of Ester GAVILAN Rogales was taken on 12 JULY 1963
> ![photo of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez]
> ![photo of Ester GAVILAN Rogales]

P - 7365
Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez
201--33266


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 135

# PATCH

To: Chief of Station, San Jose

Info: Chief of Station, Mexico

From: Chief, GU/Division

Subject: Jorge VEGA Rodriguez

Reference: HHMA-25993, 29 April 1965

Action: See Para-3.

1. It was reported in Reference that a man identifying himself as "Roberto" from Costa Rica phoned the Cuban Embassy, Mexico City, on 23 April 1965 in an attempt to get in touch with the successor of Kegelio Codriquez Lopez, Cuban intelligence officer. The man further stated that he was the doctor friend of Manuel, presumably Manuel Mora, head of the Costa Rican Communist Party.

2. An intercepted letter, dated 2 May 1965, to Judith Ferrato from Dr. Jorge Vega Rodriguez, Apartado 1212, San Jose, refers to his recent quick trip to Mexico. Vega wrote to Judith using her Party pseudo of Juanita Saenz, and at the end of the typewritten letter he wrote by hand "Greetings to Cafula and Engle (?)". Cafula is one of the pseudos used by Costa Rican Communist leader Carlos Fallas Sibaja. Headquarters has been interested in Vega's frequent trips to Mexico and his intimate friendship with Judith, as revealed by their telephone conversations, but no derogatory information on Vega has been developed. However, the fact that he is familiar with the Party pseudos of Judith and Fallas suggests that he may be more involved than he appears to be.

3. It is requested that Station San Jose determine if Dr. Vega was in Mexico on 23 April 1965, the date of the call to the Cuban Embassy. The Station is again asked to try to uncover any indication of subversive activity on the part of Vega. Is he friendly with the Mora brothers?

Distribution:

2-San Jose

1-Mexico

CHESTER D. DAINOLD

Dispatch Symbol and Number: HRSW-2700

Date: 7 June 1965

Classification: SECRET

HQS File Number: 201-42557


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 136

# SECRET

Chief of Station, San Jose XXX

Chief, WH Division

Chief of Station, Mexico City

PIRUMEN/Unknown Costa Rican in Contact with Cuban Embassy

Action Required: For information, and see paragraph two.

1. According to LIENVOY, on 23 April 1965, an unidentified man called the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City to speak to the Ambassador, who was not in. The man refused to give his name but said he was the person who used to be seen with the young blond can" from the Embacsy. Subject asked the Embassy secretary to tell the Ambassador that he had received a cable from the Embassy asking him to cose to Kexico from Costa Rica and that now he was here, but could not stay long. Subject also said that he had seen the Ambassador frequently but had been tord not to use names on the telephone; that he had received the cable at the beginning of Holy Week but could not get a plane reservation then; that they had known hin in the Embassy by the name of "Roberto"; that since the young blond ban had now gone to Cuba, Subject was supposed to make the acquaintance of the person who had taken the younger place; and that the cable had alluded to some business they were going to take care of. Finally, Subject said to tell the Ambassador that he was the doctor friend of Manuel.

2. The Station is unable to identify Subject. However, the Blond man is probably Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, Second Secretary and identified Cuban intelligence officer, who left PES for Cuba on 5 March 1965. The Station would be interested to know the identity of Subject if it can be determined by the San Jose Station.

Willard C. CURTIS

Distribution:

2 - COS, San Jose

1- C/HD

3 - Files

![stamp]

HΜΜΑ 25998 29 April 1965

SECRET 50-6-75/4

Glenna H. PELLEN egm

Lawrence P. BARKER

![chrono 50-6-75/4 P-736]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 137

SECRET

6 April 1965

MEMORANDUM FOR:

FROM:

SUBJECT: Owner of Auto Bearing California License NEW 810

1. Reference is made to your memorandum of 26 March 1965 on the above subject. According to a usually reliable source, the automobile which previously bore California License NEW 810, now has Mexican diplomatic plates D-136 and is owned by the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City. The date on which the license plates were changed is not known.

2. The description of Rogelio Rodrigues, who purchased the automobile in California, does not fit the description of Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez, who was a member of the staff of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City at the time of the purchase; and the identity of the purchaser is unknown.

Distribution: Legal Attache

THIS IS FROM A CONFIDENTIAL SOURCE. IT MUST NOT BE DISSEMINATED IN WHOLE OR IN PART OUTSIDE YOUR OFFICE WITHOUT PRIOR APPROVAL OF THE ORIGINATING OFFICE IN MEXICO CITY.

Distribution:
50-2-4/A
P-7365
P-8955

![stamp]

SECRET

# 9053


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 138

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DISTRI

ACTIONI ACTION COPY

INFOI

|          |                       |              |
| -------- | --------------------- | ------------ |
| DEFERRED | PRIORITY              | INITIALS LFK |
|          | OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE |              |

TO DIR INFO MEXI

ΚΑΡΟΣ ΤΥΡIC ANKNOB
REF HAVE 9937 (IN 5865)

1. DE RIEFING AND FLUTTER ANKNOB-1 CONDUCTED DURING PERIOD
   23 MAR 7 APR 65 ESTABLISHED AND REAFFIRMED HIS CURRENT AND PAST
   BONA FIDES. A-1 FLUTTER CONDUCTED 2 APR INDICATED NO DECEPTION FOLL
   POINTS:
   A. A-1'S CURRENT CIS CONTACTS AND HISTORY HIS PAST RELATIONS
   THEREWITH.
   B. HIS STATEMENT HE NOT INVOLVED WITH OTHER INTEL SERVICES.
   C. HIS CLAIM HAS NOT INFORMED CIS RE KUDARK CONTACT.
   D. A-1'S ASSERTION HAS TOLD COMPLETE TRUTH TO KUBARK RE HIS
   CIS RELATIONSHIP.
   E. A-1 CLAIM HAS NOT FABRICATED REPORTS TO KUBARK.

2. A-1 ADMITTED UNDER FLUTTER HAVING ENGAGED IN SOME EXAGGERA-
   TION IN HIS REPORTING TO WAVE. PROSING THIS TOPIC WAVE ESTABLISHED
   A-1 HAD SPECULATED ON RELATIVE IMPORTANCE RAUL HIS CIS CO MEXI
   WHON HE REPORTED TO WAVE AS CHIEF CIS OFFICER MEXI. A-1 EXPLAINS
   IMPORTANCE ATTRIBUTED TO HIS CISCO BASED ON FACT LATTER TREATED
   RESPECTFULLY DY FELLOW EMPLOYEES. SINILAR INSTANCE FUZZY REPORTING
   RESULTED IN A-1 REPORT TO WAVE THAT HE WAS DIRECTED TRAVEL SPAIN BY
   CIS. IN FACT A-1 WANTED VISIT SPAIN ORDER SPEND CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS
   WITH FAMILY, SO HE SURFACED POSSIBILITY HIS TRAVEL TO SPAIN TO RAUI.
   RAUL RESPONDED WOULD LIKE VISIT SPAIN AND MIGHT CONTACT A-1 THERE.
   DANGERS SUCH INACCURATE REPORTING IMPRESSED UPON A-1 WHO CLAIMS
   WILL STICK STRAIGHT FACTS IN FUTURE..

3. A-1'S PAST CURRENT VALUE TO CIS CLEARLY NOMINAL VIEW HIS
   VAGUE REPORTING TO DATE. WAVE PLANS PROMOTE HIS STATUS WITH CIS
   PRIMARILY BY PROMPTING HIM IN REPORTING TO CIS INFO HE ACQUIRES ON
   OWN FROM CUBAN EXILES AND FEEDING HIM ITEMS SELECTED BY WAVE FOR
   PASSING CIS.

4. REVIEW HIS CONTACTS INDICATES A-1 HAS ACCESS MRR, SECOND
   FRONT, HOST OTHER ANTI-GOC INDIVIDUALS WAVE AND MEXI AREAS. FOR
   EXAMPLE A-1 LEARNED FROM MANUEL CARQUES) DIAZ (201-273016) THAT HE

![Econt]

OYS. TO P-7365

![FLAERICISATGN INCOMING]

FILB Ho. P-8061


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 139

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

PAGE TWO MIR WAVE 0590 (IN 6161)

INVOLVED UNIDENTIFIED GROUP PLOTTING ASSASSINATE ANTHUG-1. WAVE IN PROCESS CHECKING THIS INFO AND IF APPROPRIATE PLAN FEED IT CIS VIA A-1. THIS MOVE CERTAIN INCREASE CIS INTEREST IN HIM.

5. A-1'S PAST VALUE KUBARK ALSO REDUCED DUE PRIMARILY A-1'S ACCESSIBILITY PRECLUDING CLOSE OPS GUIDANCE WHICH HE REQUIRES RE AN AVERAGE AGENT. HE WILLING SPEND 6 MONTHS TRAIL PERIOD XI IN EFFORT INCREASE CIS INTEREST EVALUATION OF HIM AT SAME TIME: AVAILABLE FOR CLOSER KUBARK DIRECTION EXPLOITATION. IF GRANTED A-1 WILLING HAVE FAMILY JOIN HIM MEXI FOR PERMANENT IDENCE MEXI. NO MOVE THIS DIRECTION WILL BE MADE UNTIL WAVE ABLE ASESS ITS PREDICALITY.

6. PREPARING A-1 FOR DISPATCH MEXI NEAR FUTURE TO CONTACT CIS. ADVISE ETD.

7. IN CONTINUED ATTEMPTS IDENTIFY A-1'S CIS CO MEXI, WAVE SHOWED A-1 WAVE'S MUG BOOK AND A-1 SUCCEEDED IDENTIFYING PA,
   MIS CURRENT CIS CO MEXI, AS IDENT TO ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LO (201-332555). MUG BOOK ALSO SHOWN AMMUG-1 WHO ALSO IDENTIFIED SAME PHOTO AS THAT OF RODRIGUEZ.

8. INDEX RODRIGUEZ.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 140

Date : March 26, 1965

To :

From :

Subject: UNKNOWN SUBJECT; Owner of Auto
Bearing California License HEW 810

It has been reliably reported to this office that captioned vehicle, not otherwise described, was observed on the grounds of the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City at 11:30 A.M. on October 29, 1964.

Investigation to date to identify the owner has developed that captioned vehicle is a 1961 Ford Falcon two-door with Vehicle Identification Number 1R11S123981. Investigation in California has disclosed that the captioned vehicle was last sold to one ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ who gave a false address in the Los Angeles area to the seller of the vehicle. At the time of the sale, RODRIGUEZ indicated that he was buying the automobile for someone else in Mexico, and would allegedly go to Mexico in the automobile.

RODRIGUEZ was described at the time of the purchase of the vehicle as a man between 35 and 40 years of age, apparently a Mexican (judging from his Spanish, dress, etc.) and was allegedly staying with relatives in Los Angeles, California.

CONFIDENTIAL

Group I

Excluded from Automatic Downgrading and Declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 141

CONFIDENTIAL

It is possible that captioned automobile was purchased for a Cuban diplomatic establishment. Any information you may have which would assist in identifying the owner of this automobile would be greatly appreciated.

- 2 -

CONFIDENTIAL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 142

FREP 1304

ORIG.: FLB

EXT.: COCO CHRON

DISTO:

| DEFERRED    | PRIORITY              |
| ----------- | --------------------- |
| XXXXROUTINE | OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE |

TO WAVE INFO. DIR CITE MEXI

REF: WAVE 9539 (IN 5639)

POUCHING UNDER TM 723649 PHOTOS OF CUENCA, RODRIGUEZ, AND VEGA.

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 22 MARCH 65

FILE: P-2768
Cuban chrmo

END OF MESSAGE

Copies to "prijel"

CUENCA (P-
RODRIGUEZ(P-
and Manuel VEGA(P-
Thanks

L F BARKER
AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET
CLASSIFICATION
OUTGOING

W C CURTIS
RELEASING OFFICER

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 143

DISTR
ACTION:
INFO:

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**
CLASSIFICATION

DATE: 15 MAR 1965
FILE:

|       | DEFERRED | PRIORITY              | INITIALS | DTG     | INCOMING NUMBER |
| ----- | -------- | --------------------- | -------- | ------- | --------------- |
|       | ROUTINE  | OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE | MMS      | 150056Z | 5639            |
| TO    | INFO     | MEXI                  |          |         | CITE WAVE 9539  |
| DIR   |          |                       |          |         | NUMBER          |
| TYPIC |          |                       |          |         |                 |

REF A WAVE 9233 (5502)
B DIR 91534 (NOT RCVD)
C MEXI 2752

1. ANCOG-1 WHO ACCOMPANIED PRIO TO MEXI REPORTED FOLL INFO POSSIBLY RELATED REFS. IN HOTEL ROOM ON 11 FEB, PRIO TOLD A-1 THAT ON PREVIOUS AFTERNOON WHILE WALKING DOWN MEXICO CITY STREET, UNIDENTIFIED MAN (PRIO GAVE NO DESCRIPTION) APPROACHED HIM, SHOOK HANDS AND IDENTIFIED SELF AS G-2 OFFICIAL. PRIO SAID THHEY THEN HELD SHORT TALK ON "GENERAL TOPICS".

2. ANCOG-1 UNABLE AMPLIFY STORY. ACCORDING A-1, PRIO DID TAKE WALKS WHILE MEXI CITY, BUT USUALLY ACCOMPANIED BY GROUP CUBAN SO A-1 VIEW WOULD BE UNUSUAL FOR MEMBERS ENDASCY APPROACH FRIO STREET.

3. ATTEMPTING ELICIT FURTHER DETALS FROM PRIO THROUGH AMPALM-4.

4. MEXI: PLEASE FORWARD PHOTOS MENTIONED REF C. HILL ATTEMPT HAVE PRIO REVIEW THEH FOR POSS IDENTIFICATION.

END OF MESSAGE

16/01372


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 144

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station, Mexico City

FROM: Chief, WE Division

SUBJECT: PBRUNEN/LIRAVINE/Operations ANMUG-1 Review of LITAINT-2 Material

ACTION REQUIRED. REFERENCES

REF: IMVA-25052, 23 December 1964

1. AMMUG-1 was shown copies of several documents obtained by LITAINT-2, and attached to reference for Headquarters comments. Of those shown to AMMUG-1 on 2 February 1965, only those translated in paragraph 3 were identified by him as pertaining to DGI.

2. AMMUG-1 pointed out the following items of significance in reference to the attached correspondence:

a. The name "ALBERTO" written in pen in the upper right hand corner probably refers to the "ALBERTO" of the LN Section of the DGL.

b. The name in the upper right hand corner indicates the person to whom the reply should be directed.

c. The name "FERRO" written in the upper right hand corner refers to Jose Miguel ROA Fernandez, who was assigned to the Cuban Embassy in Mexico.

d. The signature "PABLO" indicates it is correspondence from Cuba to Mexico.

3. The documents referred to above have been translated for the record as follows:

"30/ICI: Re: for Eulogio:

In the month of January I am forwarding a cable from N-One requesting films of that country and other Central American countries.

CONTINUED . . .

Distribution:

0 & 1 - COS, Mexico City

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMW-13443

DATE: 10 March 1965

HQS FILE NUMBER: 50-6-128/3

![image of handwriting, P-73.65]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 145

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
EMMW-13443

"We suggest you take care of this matter as soon as possible and to report the possibilities of obtaining these films or of sending some person for the purpose of realizing this work, including the cost of the operation.

Revolutionary,

Pablo"

"S/N ICL

Comrade Ferro

Several days ago we received a request from comrade Eulogio with reference to your need of a loan to pay some debts, which resulted from recent purchases made by you.

We are aware that your work requires certain commodities, such as a presentable house, capable of making persons, who you receive, feel comfortable in the atmosphere they are in.

Now, you should have analyzed your economic possibilities before incurring those debts. If you had done so you would have realized that these were not within your reach (budget), for which reason you would have turned to us, with the purpose of finding a solution to that problem.

We are instructing comrade Eulogio to make you a reasonable loan with which you can get out of your present debts.

In the future you should consult us and in particular present a plan to comrade Eulogio, on any problem of that nature, with the confidence that it will be solved.

You should make us a report justifying the loan that you will get to pay the debts you have."

John N. CORNISH

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 146

761.-
Salida al 154138.- 1250ls.- Jorri, con la esposa del sr.
Herrera Franjuti le dice que el embajador que está enfermo quiere que el sr. pase a verlo.- Y que en seguida que llegue le avisa.---
---804.-

883.-
Entrada a las 1110 hs.- IF Ramón Rubidal por Cejeda. Jorrin que anda por el aeropuerto.--- 889.

890.-
P-7365

Entrada a los 1230hs.- Morales or Rogelio.- Jorrin que Rogelio salió a Cuba.--- 903.-

95.-
Salida al 260225.- 1136hs.. HD Avilio por Firaín.- HS que acaba de salir.--- 914.

P-7365


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 147

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT: General: AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report #271
Specific: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez/Photographic Surveillance of Cuban Consulate, Mexico City.

1. On 9 February 1965, AMMUG/1 identified a photograph of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, Second Secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and a member of the DGI (Directorio General de Inteligencia). He also identified a photograph of RODRIGUEZ' wife whose name he could not recall.

2. These photographs are part of the surveillance on the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and were taken from the following:

Film No.   Photo   Date
373   10   22 February 1964
(Rogelio RODRIGUEZ)
279   15   26 November 1963
(RODRIGUEZ' wife)

3. Additional information on RODRIGUEZ is contained in the following AMMUG/1 Debriefing Reports:

#153 dated 24 August 1964
#181 " 9 September 1964
#217 " 2 March 1965.

> [Figure: A handwritten note saying 'Retd to Honaria 5 Mar 1965']

J. Piccolo
WII/C/RR/OS

![Signature]

Ben Stotts
C/AVH/C/RR/OS
201-332605
901-337665


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 148

2 March 1965
LX-2480

# MEMORANDUM FOR THE FILE

SUBJECT:
General: AMMUG/1 Debriefing Report #271
Specific: Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez/Photographic
Surveillance of Cuban Consulate, Mexico
City.

1. On 9 February 1965, AMMUG/1 Identified a photograph of Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, Second Secretary at the Cuban Embassy in Mexico City and a member of the DG! (Directorio General de Inteligencia). He also identified a photograph of RODRIGUEZ' wife whose name he could not recall.

2. These photographs are part of the surveillance on the Cuban Consulate in Mexico City and were taken from the following:

Film No.   Photo   Date
373   10   22 February 1964 (Rogelio RODRIGUEZ)
279   15   26 November 1963 (RODRIGUEZ' wife)

3. Additional information on RODRIGUEZ is contained in the following AMMUG/1 Debriefing Reports:

#153 dated 24 August 1964
#181 " 9 September 1964
#217 2 March 1965.

J. Piccolo
WII/C/RR/OS

Ben Stotts
C/WII/C/RR/OS
Distribution:
2-RI (201-332665) 2-AMMUG/Pro, Mary, Bernice, Lois, Chrono.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 149

![photo of a man wearing a black ski mask and holding his hand to his face]

CUBA
RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, ROGELIO. DIPLOMAT. 1964
SECRET
CIA-P-202222

CUBA
GAVILAN ROSALES DE RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ, 1963
ESTHER. (WIFE OF ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ
LOPEZ).
SECRET
CIA-P-202221


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 150

Film 373 Photo 10

22

Rogelio Rodriguez Lopez

DOB:

Second Sser, litoxice

Lebany

huit DEL member

(Directorio, Several

de Date


> [Figure: Photo of GAVILAN ROSALES DE RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ]

CUBA
GAVILAN ROSALES DE RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ,
ESTHER. (WIFE OF ROGELIO RODRIGUEZ LOPEZ).
1963
SECRET
CIA-P-202221


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 151

1 March 1965
WH/C #63-49
LX-1836

MEMORANDUM FOR: FI/D Staff
SUBJECT: General: AMMUC/1 Debriefing Report #217
Subject: S/W Communications

In s/w communications, the agent is given a name, separate from his own pseudonym, as an indicator. In the Romeo Operation the use of the name "JULIO" meant that the letter was for "EDUARDO" that is Rogelio RODRIGUEZ, who had that as one of his pseudonyms and used it in August 1962 when he was in the MA Section at DGI (Cuban Intelligence service) Headquarters. The Valladares Operation similarly used "GENARO" to indicate that the letter was for "TEODORO," Identity unknown, but a case officer in MA Section in August 1962.

Mary Hutchison
WH/C/RR/OS

Benjamin Stotts
C/WH/C/RR/OS

Distribution:
2-FID
2-AMMUG/1 Production
1-WH/C/ESEC
2-RI (19-5-1 and 201-332665)
1- Lois
1-Mary/Bernice
1-Chrono

![cscy feed 19-5-39]

![Copy 20/-332665]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 152

8369
RESUMEN miércoles 10 febrero 1965

9:07
SORGÜEDAS se reporta a casa del Lic. A y este
le pregunta cómo le fué en su viaje por Cuba. SOL responde
que estupendamente. AGUILAR se alegra y comenta que sería
muy bueno charlar ampliamento pués "a nosotros nos interesan
mucho tus comentarios" de todo lo que seguramente ha podido
seguir mos de cerca. SOL agrega que este ha sido el viaje
mas inteligente que ha hecho, inteligente en el sentido de la
comprensión, una cosa menos emotiva. AGUILAR así lo cree y
manifiesta que ahora ya tiene una base que deberá servirle
para la reapreciación de muchas cosas. SOL dice que además
tiene pensado regresar muy pronto, y por tal motivo quisiera
que AGUILAR y señora fucran el sábado a cenar a su casa.
AGUILAR agradece la invitación pero no puede aceptar en vista
de que precisamente ese día deberá estar en Ciudad Obregón,
pucs tiene el compromiso de hacer un recorrido rápido por el
Estado de Sonora, pero promete que a su regreso de pondrán de
acuerdo y se reunirón.

09:24
El Dr. ALVAREZ (In voz del guatemalteco pregunta a la Embajada de Cuba por y
al ser informado por JORRIN que no se encuentra deja el reca-
do siguiente: que lo esperaron ayer los esposos que lo habían
invitado y que como no pudo ir lo esperan el sábado para meren
dar, porque ellos van a estar fuera. JORRIII tona nota y pasa
rá el recado.

09:37
JESUS GIL después de ofrecer la venta cierta cantiad de
frijol azufrado a CAMILO de la oficina comercial de
la Eabajada Cubana, dice que mañana almorzará con TONO ICCHA
pues es muy amigo de él y que es el Frocurador de la República
y que va a aclarar esas cosas que han publicado en contra
de mismo CAMILO los dicrios capitalinos. Este dice que lo tien
sin cuidado, pues es la misma prensa que siempre ha criticado
a los grandes hombres y verdaderos proceres, con nas razón
ven à criticar a un pobre hombre com lo es él. JESUS dice que
de todas maneras " son unos mierdes, y bien nierdas", pero que
los verdaderos amigos están con CAMILO que lo quieren de
verdad. CAMILO lo sabe y se lo agradece.

10:15
Una empleada del Lic. FEDHARDO Secretario del
Presidente de la Gran Comisión del Senado, manifiesta que
aquel desea ir a Cuba con su familia en viaje de placer.
El Vice-Consul ABREU dice que lo puede hacer. La empleada
entonces solicita "un salvo-conducto para FICUTROA". ABREU
indica que no es necesario puce eso solo es cuando hay estado
de guerra, pero que si tiene pasaporte oficial puede otorgar-
sele la visa.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 153

200. 
Salidas al 09.-1410.- Sin contestación. Luego Rogelio Rodríguez pide una conferencia al 33565 de: La Habana- y posteriormento pregunta a Bertha Pino (empiezan a hablar- en el número 309) si ha recibido todas sus cartas y Bertha- dice que sí. Rogelio pregunta por qué no le ha con- testado y Bertha no responde y pregunta por el ...... y Rogelio indica que lo mandó con Mario hace dos semanas, lo- mismo que los zapatos. Bertha se dá por enterada.

Después la Dra. Margot Machado con Rogelio para comunicarle- que ya está bien. Rogelio se alegra y pregunta cómo- Verenita y Margot comenta que bien y engordando. Nueva- mente habla Bertha y pregunta a Rogelio si está haciendo mucho frío y éste dice que nó, que ya levantó. Bertha pregunta cómo están en la embajada y Rogelio comenta que todo- mundo bien. Bertha pregunta cuándo regresan a Cuba - Vega y 61 y Rogelio creé que hasta marzo, a principios; pregunta si va a contestar sus cartas y Batha aclara que el viernes le contestaron y le mandaron un sobre amarillo con- la señora de Sama. Rogelio: que ya lo recibió; pregunta si ya empezó a trabajar y Bertha dice que nó, que hasta el- 23 de febrero y el martes irá a Santa Clara. Rogelio: que ayer con Bola do Nieve e Iván, le mandó una carta; pregunta si está de acuerdo con las cartas y Bertha indica que sí; - que le dé recuerdos a todos los compañeros. Rogelio: - que está bien.- 360.-

362. Entrada equivocada.- 366.-

367. Salidas al 09.-1425.-Sin contestación. Luego Rogelio pregunta el importe de la llamada que hizo a Cuba y MF pide que dentro de 20 minutos llame al 188440.- 380.- Posteriormente MF'da tiempo y precio de la llamada a Cuba.-383.-

383. Salida al 141861.-1906.-J.se comunica a la farmacia y- pide medicamentos a nombre de Cepeda.- 396.- (3.-L31.-7 feb.65)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 154

Embajada de Cuba: 144237.-

2 feb. 65 .-

M 11. L 36.-

0950 - 14097.

105. Entrada 0950.- HF pregunte si ye llegaron las becas --

para los estudiantes y ND pide llame al 141326 para que 102 informen.- 123.-

123. Entrada 1122.- Novicky de la Embajada de Checoslovaquia con Rogelio para decirle que le urge hablar con él; pregunta si es posible y éste dico que sí y quedan de verse a las 12 en el lugarsito aquel.- 143.-

143. Entrada 1205.- El bocado Cuauhtémoc Pardo al no encontrar a Sinobas, queda de volver a llamar.- 154.-

155. Entrada 1212.- Urdanivia pregunta al embajador qué se lo ofrece y éste dice que necesitaba lo comunicara con al-- Ing.Carlo Durant porque hablaron de verse para hablar algo de materia azucarera, ya que parece que hay una bibliografia que Durant estime que es muy moderna y le gustarí pregun-- tarle ciertas cosas Urdanivia:que Durant es un hombre de mucha confianza y muy competente. Armas está de acuerdo y agrega, que Durant le estuvo hablando de unas publicaciones sobre determinadas técnicas azucareras que se-- han ido incorporando en algunos países a la industria. Urdanivia: que Durant tiene simpatía por la revolución de Cuba y todo, que es un hombre en quien puede confiar y por- lo tanto mañana le dará sus teléfono. Armas acepta.

Urdanivia pregunta qué noticias de Nuñez tiene y Armas indica que en éstos no ha sabido nada, sin embargo está esperando carta porque él le escribió mandándole unos libros que le pidió: que en caso de que sepa algo, lo llamará.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 155

# CUBA

Cancilleria y residencia: Francisco Marquez 160
(Colonia Condesa)

Excmo. Sr. Josquin ERNANDEZ Ames,
Embajador Extraordinario y Plenipotenciario
Señora Clama CARBONELL de llernandez
Presentación de credenciales: 3 de Julio de 1963

Señor Ramon SINOBAS Casado. Consejero
Señora Marta SOLIS de Sinovas,
Residencia: Alvaro Obregon 123, Depto. 605,
Jer. Piso (Col. Roma) Telefono: 11-21-79

Señor Raul APARICIO Nogales, Consejero Cultural,
Señora Raquel ABREU do Aparicio
Residencia: Zamora 199-A (Condesa). Telefono: 14-57-89

Señor Camilo DONENECH Gadea, Consejero Comercial
Señora Esther Natalia JEENEZ Navarro de Domenech
Residencias Cuernavaca 35-7 (Condesa). Telefono:

Señor Rogelio RODRIGUEZ Lopez, Segundo Secrétario..
Señora Esther GAVILAN de Rodrigues Lopez
Residencia:Baja California 173-3. Telefono: 11-02-63

Senor Jose Miguel FERNANDEZ Roa, Tercer Secretario.
Señora Lolita RODRIGUEZ de Fernandez Roa.
Residencia: Juanacatlan 23-401 (Condesa). Telefono:

Senor Manuel Eugenio VEGA Perez, Tercer Secretario
Residenciar Francisco Marquez 160 (Condesa). Teléfono: 14-13-26

Señor Reynaldo CEPEDA Hernandez, Tercer Secretario.
Residencia:

Señor Luis ALSERJ Souto, Agregado Cultural
Residencia: Michelet 7, Depto. 301 (Anzurez).

Señor Enrique VILLAVICENCIO Argudin, Agregado Diplomatico.
Sonora Xenia MENENDEZ de Villavicencio.
Residencia: Francisco Marquez 160 (Col. Condesa). Telefono: 14-13-25

SO: DIARIO CFICIAL, Organo del Gobierno Constitucional de Los Estados
Unidos Lexicanos, 2 de Enero de 1955


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)