2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

SECRET

OPERATIONAL AND SOURCE COVER SHEET

FROM: (San Jose), Costa Rica

REPORT NO. (HR8-906)

REPORT MADE BY: Stefan R. Labanow/otl

NO. PAGES: 2

REPORT APPROVED BY: Stefan R. Labanow

NO. ENCLOSURES: See below

DATE OF REPORT: 1 February 1956

REFERENCES:

DISTRIBUTION:

By copy to:

2 - Washington, w/att.

16-21 - (Guatemala) w/att.

2 - files

16-31 - (Mexico) w/att.

16-261 - (San Salvador), w/att.

16-231 - (Santiago) u/o att.

16-71 - (Panama), u/o att.

Orally to:

Embassy

ID NO.

IG NO.

SOURCE CRYPTONYM:

(HUSSY)

KRYPTON: ☐ YES ☐ NO

SOURCE, OPERATIONAL DATA, AND COMMENTS

16-2 16-3 16-26

Attachments: 1 copy each of attachment to (Guatemala),(Mexico) and (San Salvador).

2 copies to Washington.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

FIELD INFORMATION REPORT

COUNTRY:

SUBJECT: Guatemalan Exile Activities

PLACE ACQUIRED: Costa Rican, (San Jose)

SOURCE, SOURCE EVALUATION, APPRAISAL OF CONTENT

High level Central American exile (F). Appraisal of Content: Documentary.

On 14 January 1956 (Col. Carlos PAZ Tejada, under the alias (V. Palomares) wrote to (Col.) Francisco COSENZA Galvez in Costa Rica from San Salvador. The letter was addressed to the accommodation address ("Just MARCIA IBARLADO 2692) Ser. I.M., which is used by COSENZA, and is essentially translated as follows:

"Although I have wanted very much to answer your letter of 7 December 1955, many things have/obstructed it and so time has slipped by against my wish, so that I have been able to write you only today."

"In spite of the latest news with which you must be familiar, I think that what happened is nothing but an incident, natural to the trade. I really believe that the crazy one with whom we were dealing was trying to negotiate and participate in the winnings which there would be without much risk on his part. If the business failed for one reason or another, it does not signify anything more than a loss of time and some short-range hopes, but not in an important manner. Far from that. Something positive is being accomplished within a general line of forcing Maria Dolores to act in a manner which is good for us. I hope to continue in the activity and I have exactly the patience of a spider repairing its net in wait for a fly to fall into it."

"With relation to what you transcribed from Dona Ticha, that is due to the fact that the fat one who was formerly so close to me, has retired from me and has dedicated himself to the task of defaming me because he was unable to get something he wanted from me. Since he has nothing else to say, he says that I have very strange relations or that I belong to the comrades. As you will understand, this is nothing more than a disloyal mask, in which he is an expert. The friend who recently arrived from El Indicted/can increase your information concerning this. I have already written to the good friend of 'mi morona' so that he may explain if there is an opportunity. Although she is already really suffering a strong reduction in her activity and I do not think she will recuperate. *Bien, pues.*

"I have strengthened the connections with Roquelo and other friends of the

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# SECRET

22
(HRB-906

'finsa ni morens'. I think that, depending on how things appear, we should activate our requests and also gontemplate now solutions to the large problem. I am writing today to the farw to maintain a contimity of action and to see if the prevailing circumstances can be taken advantage of and given a purpose.

"I consider it extremely important that we maintain ourselves in closer correspondence than up to now. I understand that it is I who have failed to answer you, but I hope that the explanation of the events as sufficient. Failing to do co would be to fail to show interest and would even result in everything becoming cold and paralysed for who knows how long."

"The big carl wrote me very affectionately. I think that the problems that they cause each other are completely negative and that they cause us to deviate from the only road which should be followed."

SOURCE COMMENTS:

1. (Col. Ernesto

WIEDERHEITMANN

2. A reference to the planned revolt which was discovered and destroyed by the Guatemalan Government in December 1955.

3. A code name for Quatemalan President Carlos CASTILLO Armas.

4. Augusto CHARNAUD MacDonald.

5. (Major) Marco Antonio FRANCO Chacon. According to Humberto GONZALEZ Juares, there was a disagreement between FRANCO and PAZ Tejada, which resulted in FRANCO arising CHARNAUD of PAZ' dealings with

WIEDERHEITMANN

tella

6. The Commmunists.

7. Humberto GONZALEZ Juaros.

8. El Salvador.

9. Mexico.

10. (Col) Adolfo GARCIA Montenegro.

11. Guatemala.

12. Juan Jose AREVALO.

SECRET

200-4-173212


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# 14-00000

Sn. Salvador y de

HRS

querido Pedrito: Aunque ha sido mucho mi deseo dirigirle para dar respuesta a la tuya del 7 de dice ppdo, me ha (sido) ido dificultando y poco a poco pasando el tiempo, es lo que hace que contra mi voluntal, hasta hoy pro dirigirte estas lindas.

Ei pesar de las ultimas noticias que habias os lo, yo creo que lo sucedido no pass de ser un incidcoalt Dasral en el oficio. En vardad yo creo que el boco con quien Jabomo, estaba tratando de negreias y participar en las ogro que hatilian win muces arrigant de su parte. Asi lo cats ba desde el pomepro y por iss trate de obtener il mass posible de coniformes de su parte. Con il negocis fallo pore por b, ragonis no es una pertida ma, que de tiempo y Juuss esperanzis a Coats plazo pere en forma alguna algo tras dental. Fejos de algo positive se esta estoniendo dentes de s Lincamiento gensial de hacer a imaria wolores actuar en in forma que nos convibral. i manos esperanges de contimsar en la ast vidad y entry jrecivarmente con la paciencia de la araña, ne pandani ba red an expolia de que La mosesta caige prouts c ella.

Con relación a lo que me tramoscrises de dona Bicha dine que eso se tihe a que el gordils aquel que antes satiates, Juto à vue, por no obtener do the algo, se dins furies of dedicats a ba notte Karen de difamarine, specialmente, ya qu no ns puede decir oten cosa, que tengo muy cutradas relaciones of lemezes a la comasss. Como tu comprendes, calo no es medis asslead, aunque el en estes es cuperts Eta se hace poes llegó de por el fondiste, la pod

200-04-123 212

![DOODTAINABLE]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# 14-00000

Elvira Gadhan
Elvira Pachur
Sr. don
Justo Garcia
Apartado Postal 2692,
San José,

VIA AIR MAIL

Costa Rica, A. C.

REPRODUCTION IS BEST OBTAINABLE
FROM APERTURE CARD SUBMITTED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

arroner y no cra
for fatedido las comas
Eres que, segin
estiones e inclues contemplar ho
grande. Hoy mismo colony cocinbadas
fomentar la continuidad de accion y
lessonsgar las circumstantiass. ientatida
Esiders-uncime
cimento
reconjunts en concipondecrsin más isdatas
reconozco que yo ho sido
por caplos que la cojitlidades y coi
suge Se tacits, se dejar de
fas tales se confie y se pensine
EL canto grande
len en los

![FROM APARTMENTAIR REST DETAINABLE]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)