# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

RETURN TO CIA
Background Use Only
Do Not Reproduce

SECRET

UNIT WH

CONS17 ESE YR, FILE

SECRET 282138Z

IN-82908

PRIORITY DIR CITE SALV SSOL

WH' Οιν CUBE CUBAN DEFECTOR

28 SEPTC4.

PERS A. SALV 5296 (52314

24

B. DIR 52599

SALVADORAN
INTEL CHIEF

1. IN ACCORDANCE REFS AND MET MORNING
   CE SEPTEMBER IN US OFFICE TO BRIEF HIN ON RECRUITMENT,

IMPORTANCE AND SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS. WAS NUCH IMPRESS-

ED AND AGREED EMPHATICALLY ONLY HE AND (PRESIDENT) WOULD KNOW

BECRUITMENT AND THEY WOULD NAKE NO RECORD OF IT. DURING .......

POINTED OUT IS MOST IMPORTANT LOCAL TARGET

BECAUSE HE HAS KNOWLEDGE OF AND ACCESS TO COMMIE PARTIES SALV AND
OTHER CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES,

2. SAID ONE OF HIS AGENTS WHO ALREADY HAS LEFT SALV

SECRET

SOURLES METHOD


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE                                             SECRET                         IN  PAGE 24

ARRANGED CONTACT WITH CUBANASSET (SALU. INTEL CHIEF) 24 ACCEPTED WITHOUT QUEST-

ION, MADE NO DEMANDS, ORDERED ALL HIS FACILITIES AND UTMOST CIA OFFICER CIA OFFICER.
COOPERATION TO . AND BELIEVE THERE HA'S BEEN NO
SECURITY PROBLEM TO DATE.

3. DO NOT FLAN HIT ANY OTHER TARGETS SALV AT THIS TIME, EXCEPT DALTON, AS CUBAN TARGET OP TOO IMPORTANT TO RISK DRAWING ATTENTION

CIA TO DALTON PRESENCE OR RECRUITMENT EFFORTS. PLAN TO CONTINUE.
INTERROGATION AND RECRUITMENT EFFORT. HIS SILENCE AND
COLLABORATION IMPORTANT IN THEMSELVES BUT ALSO FOR FORE GOING REASON.

24 (SALV. INTEL CHIEF) CIA AGREES HANDLE EXACTLY AS WISHES.





SOURCES + METHODS

SECRET

* ONLY ALTERNATIVE APPEARED CUT IN (PRESIDENT) AND 24 SALU. INTEL CHIEF

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)