# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

MATERIAL REVIEWED AT CIA HEADQUARTERS BY
HOUSE SELECT COMMITTEE ON ASSASSINATIONS STAFF MEMBERS

FILE TITLE/NUMBER/VOLUME: POSADA, LUIS CLEMENTE
C-30 09 85
VOL. II

INCLUSIVE DATES:

CUSTODIAL UNIT/LOCATION: CIA

ROOM:

DELETIONS, IF ANY: OFFICE OF SECURITY MATERIAL

| DATE RECEIVED | DATE RETURNED | REVIEWED BY (PRINT NAME) | SIGNATURE OF REVIEWING OFFICIAL NOT REVIEWED BY HSCA |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------- |
|               |               |                          |                                                      |
|               |               |                          |                                                      |
|               |               |                          |                                                      |
|               |               |                          |                                                      |
|               |               |                          |                                                      |

NO DOCUMENTS MAY BE COPIED OR REMOVED FROM THIS FILE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

1.71 MPG 2:76

TABLE SEC DISSEM BY 29 Pfi

PERSON/UNIT NOT FILED

TOTAL COPIES 20-1

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN
ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

STAFF PRECEDENCE

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED/ALLOTTED
ACTION UNIT

LAB

FILE VR /PLAN, C14, /OPS,

PS/E62, 056, 056/00

T 29 96 44 EI A6 93 PAGE 01-01 IN 06 78 46

TOR:132220Z OCT 76 CARA 31115

SECRET 132216Z OCT 76 STAFF

CITE CARACAS 31115

TO: PRIORITY DIRECTOR.

WN INTEL AKULE

1. FYI, STATION HAS RECEIVED REPORTS FROM SEVERAL SOURCES WHICH INDICATE ALMOST CERTAINLY THAT WKSCARLET-3 WAS ARRESTED BY DISIP 12 OCTOBER AND IS BEING DETAINED UNDER SUSPICION OF INVOLVEMENT IN THE 6 OCTOBER DESTRUCTION OF CUBANA AIRCRAFT NEAR BARBADOS, ALSO, THAT WK SCARLET 3'S OFFICE WAS RAIDED AND ALL FILES CONFISCATED MORNING 13 OCTOBER.

2. FILE: 201-2300985, E2 IMPDET.

![signature]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Office of Security

Polygraph Results, 29 June 1973

Subject: 261. 300985


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# PHILIP SHARE

09/3/71

1575

5.1.1973

> ![cycle of cult area determination]

INCEA
NO INDEX
RETURN TO

300782

BRANCH

FILE RID

FILE IN CA FILE NO.

FILE

SECRET

To :PRIORITY CARACAS INFO ROME.

UKRALLY WKSCARLET

573 21 72

CITE DIRECTOR

367030

REF: CARACAS 21092 |IN 8236471*

1. AFTER CAREFUL RECONSIDERATION, BELIEVE IN VIEW CONSIDERABLE FLAP POTENTIAL THAT WKSCARLET-3 SHOULD NOT BE MET IN ROME.

REALIZE THAT HE COULD PRODUCE SOME INTERESTING INTEL FROM THIS TIMELINESS OF OP BUT DO NOT FEEL IN THIS INSTANCE THAT REPORTING WORTH RISK INVOLVED.

2. SUGGEST YOU TELI WKSCARLET-3 CONTACT CANCELLED BECAUSE ROME CASE OFFICER EUCHU ESCO WHO WOULD HAVE NET HIM EXPECTS BE OUT OF TOUN AT TIME OF WKSCARLET-J'S VISIT AND NO OTHER APPROPRIUATE CONTACT AVAILABLE.

3. FILE (201-300945) 75-2-16/3. ER IMPDET H

*REPORTED ON WKSCARLET-3 TRIP TO ROME TO BUG COLOMBIAN DELEGATION TO COLOMBIAN-VENEZUELAN BORDER TALKS.

E/L MR PEAKE (TELECOORD)

/WHIFI Nuche

THEODORE G. SHACKLEY

C/WHD

RICHARD L. CONOLLY

C/WH/3

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

CLASSIFIED BY OF

Supplementary Explanatory Notes For Those Items With An Asterisk (*) Following the Item Number Are Contained On the Reverse Side

201 PERSONALITY FILE ACTION REQUEST

(Please Type)

TO: IP/201 Section Room GA-20 Tube Address: D-5 DATE 24 Sopt 72

FROM: Nancy L. Davis OFFICE DESIGNATION ROOM PHONE TUBE ADDRESS

1.* OPEN 201 (CSN 5-30) 3R 2627 4522 BS-4

2. TYPE OF HOLD UNRESTRICTED IN IP/FILES (IP Use Only)
   FILE CONTROL

(Select Only HOLD IN IP/FILES BUT RESTRICT TO DESK
One) AMENO 201 PERMANENTLY CHANGE TO DESK

3. ENTER CRYPTONYM(S) ONLY IF CRYPTONYM ACTION HAS BEEN INDICATED IN ITEM 1. USE ONE COPY OF FORM AND COMPLETE ITEMS 3, 14, 15, 16, AND 21. DO NOT INCLUDE
   TRUE NANG INFORMATION.

ADD CRYPTONYM X

SUPERSEDED CRYPTONYM: CIFENCE/4 NEW CRYPTONYMI WKSCARLET/3

CANCEL CRYPTONYM O

4. TRUE NAME (LAST.) (First) (Middle) 5. 201 NUMBER

C300985

6. NAME VARIANTS AND TELECODES (For Type. Use A For Alias, V for Variant of AKA. M For Maiden)

TYPE (LAST.) (First) (Middle)

7. SEX 8. DATE OF BIRTH, 9. COUNTRY AND CITY/TOON PROVINCE OF BIRTH

IF CIRCA CHECK BOX □

(Circle One) DAY MONTH YEAR

M

10. CITIZENSHIP (IP Use Only) 11. OCCUPATION (IP Use Only)

12. INTELLIGENCE AFFILIATION(S) OR TARGET ORGANIZATION(S) 13. Ol CODE(S) 14. ACTION DESK CODE (IP Use Only)

VENE VENE

(IP Use Only) 15. INTEREST DESK CODE (IP Use Only)

15. COUNTRY OF LOCATION VENE

17. CITE FILLD ADLIESSEES TO RECEIVE INDEX CARDSI

18. DOCUMENT SYMBOL NUMBER DATE DAY MO YR 19. COUNTRY, STATE, CITY/TOWN OF LOCATION

20. SUMMARY TEXT FOR (Insert additional identifying and deactiva data. Do not include Cryptonyme. If spouse
    INDEX RECORDS. record doslrod. provido spouse bio dots here procuted by "Code R.")

21. SIGNATURE OF AFOCESTER

Nancy P. Davis

FORM 831 CABLE SECRET F2 22. 201 NUMBER

APDIR

0300985

WARNING - SISAMI (138-51)

5-72


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, #//3//4 Lucy L. Lents

No.

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of _______________, for the purpose specified in your request dated on follows:

Unilateral penetration of CLAIM.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-D.

![signature] Lee C. Postan

CI/Acting Chief, CI/OP and Support Division

Date:

FORM
1-67 124 COMPLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET

![stamp] (0)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

FILE NO. 300955

NOTICE TO: DIVISION PERSONNEL REVIEWING THIS FILE

Please complete the following steps:

1.  NAME OF REVIEWER *(please print)*

NANCY I DAVIS

2.  OFFICE DESIGNATION OF REVIEWER:

WH/3/U

3.  DATE OF REVIEW

10 July 72

4.  Do you contemplate dissemination of information reviewed: NO

to field

to another US Government Agency (if so, to whom)

The dissemination of any Office of Security investigative information, including FBI reports, must be coordinated with CI/OA and the Office of Security.

5.  Comments:

DO NOT REMOVE THE ATTACHED FOLDER FROM CI/OA

FORM
6-70 3230

SECRET

(13-21-40)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

TO:

FROM: CHIEF, CH/OA

SUBJECT:

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR REQUEST FOR APPROVAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFORMATION CHECKED BELOW, OR REVIEW INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

| PRO I                                          | RESULTS OF TECHNICAL INTERROGATION      |
| ---------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------- |
| PIFLD TRACES                                   | U.S. COMINT TRACES                      |
| HI TRACES (Incl. COMINT)                       | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF, REPORT AT-CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES (Inel. COMINT) | REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA           |
| NOTICE: FIRST SECOND THIRD AND FINAL           | OTHERS (See Remarks)                    |
| REMARKS:                                       |                                         |

FORM
7-71 389 obsolete previous edition


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

Office of Security Investigative Report

26 April 1972

Subject: 319235


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INVESTIGATION AND/OR NAME CHECK

TO : Deputy Director Security, 100

FROM: Chier, Cl/Operational Approval and Support Division

DATE 19 January 1972 JR

PROJECT AND AREA OF ASSIGNMENT WH/3/V Venezuela

SUBJECT: 201 - 300985 SO - 319235

TYPE OF REQUEST OS INDICES RESULTS BY FAI CHECK RESULTS BY

Informant

SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS (Limitations on investigation, cover protest, etc.)

IP NDI DIVISION (Include comint) NDI FIELD NDI CAS/ISG NR

ATTACHMENTS PO/PART I PARTIAL OID OTHER

REMARKS

SO# 319235.

T/N: POSADA Carriles, Luis Clemente

DPOB: 15 February 1928, Cienfuegos, Cuba

TO: Chief, CI/OA DATE 20 Jun 72.

FROM: Deputy Director Security, 100

1. 05 Indices results: OS# 319235 - No info since "7/1

2. Checks were conducted at the indicated Agencies with negative results:

X3. Checks were conducted at the following Agency(ies) with positive results, reports attached.

4. Domestic Field Investigation has been completed, reports attached.

5. Domestic Field Investigation favorable, reports will follow within 60 days.

FORM 693 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)