# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

# SECRET

DIRECTOR

FROM : UMWAVE

ACTION: C/SAS 5

INFO : LDP, ADDP, RI/AN DUMMY, D/OC 2/VR

REF I 0220127

INFO : WAVE 9395

SUBJECT: ATHENA PETCOS COMMO

A. WAVE 7598 (IN 61661)

B. WAVE 7591 (IN 61630)

C. WAVE 7793 (IN 64066)

D. WAVE 7800 (IN 64001)

E. WAVE 7861 (IN 64951)

F. WAVE 7964 (IN 65904)

G. WAVE 8116 (IN 672050)

H. WAVE 8117 (in 67249)

I. WAVE 8113 (IN 67281)

J. WAVE 8134 (IN 673561)

K. WAVE 8140 (IN 67664)

L. WAVE 8262 (IN 69684)

1. FOLL IS TRANSLATION OF REFS:

A. 70. RECEIVED MESSAGE 34. RUBEN RECOMMENDS JOSE 11511 GONZALEZ CANTO BECAUSE HE WAS A SERGEANT IN THE OLD ARMY AND KNOWS HOW TO HANDLE DIFFERENT WEAPONS AND SOME EXPLOSIVES. RAMON AND MARIO ARE

CONCERNED. TELL US WHAT PICTURES OF MARIO YOU WANT. THE ONE THAT DONEADIOS RECOMMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE IS CRESTE TAMAYO MUNOS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

POPY SOR AT THE SCHOOL OF COMMERCE. I WILL CONTACT RENE THROUGH FAGO.
DOIMEADIOS SAYS THAT CAMAY RECOMENDS FOR INTELLIGENCE.

71. CONTINUATION. MEDARDO SILVA MARRERO, BORN IN HOL GUIN, OCTOBER 1927. LIVES LOS MOSCONES NEIHBORHOOD. SON AND ALTA GRACIA. WORKS IN THE ASALT PLANT LOCATED IN THE HOL GUIN MILITIA AIRPORT.

72. RECEIVED MESSAGE 35. WILL SEND BIO DATA ON RENE BEFORE CONTACT WITH HIM. ROBERTO ZAYAS WILL WORK IN THE ACTION CELL. IN THE LOCATION OF THE HOUSE NEAREST THE POINT, IT IS MORE THAN THREE KILOMETERS AWAY. THE POINT CAN BE REACHED BY A SECONDARY. THERE ARE NO PATROLS NOR OBSERVATION POSTS NEAR, THE NEAREST ONE IS 12 OR 18 KILOMETERS. TELL US WHEN YOU CAN HAVE A RE-SUPPLY OPERATION. HAVE A FEW SABOTAGE OBJECTIVES, DATA SENT BY MAIL. ON NEXT TRANSMISSION

WELL CEND SOME DETAILS OF OBJECTIVES CHOSEN.

73. BIOGRAPHIC DATA ON RENE CRUZ PAMON, BORN IN VITORIA, TUNAS ON 23 MAY 1929. LIVES IN JULIAN SANTANA 122 WHERE HIS OFFICE. IS A PAPER MAKER. SON OF ROBERTO AND MANUELA, MARRIED TO KARDEEE CRUZ VELAZQUEZ? HAS ONE DAUGHTER NAMED ANAUELA PPT ANOMA/ (SIC). DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN RECOMMEND ROBERTO LECON, FIND FOR ACTION. HE WAS BORN IN HOLGUIN. CONTINUES.

74. CONTINUATION. BORN ON 22 APRIL 1932, LIVES ON FRASER 12. WORKS IN THE ELECTRIC PLANT OF HOLGUIN. RAPID INVESTIGATION OF THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.

75. AGUILAP HAS RECOMMENDED TO ME FOR ACTION AGENT IN PUERTO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

IN 71784 PAGE

PADRE RAMON DANIEL VALDES LEON NAT IVE OF HAVANA. BORN 21 RPT 21 JUNE 195

RPT 1915. SON OF HER IBERTO AND TERESA MARRIED TO LINA PACHECO RONDON)

LIVES IN BATET, CHAPAPRA REPARTO MIRAMAR, PUERTO PADRE. WORKS AS MALE MURDE

THIS FAN CONTROLS LARGE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE ZONE.

C 76. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT RUBEN

DS FOR ACTION ALFREDO DIAZ GONZALEZ FONZALEZ BORN IN MANZANILLO. BORN

OCTOBER 1916. SON OF MANUEL AND TOMACA. WORKS AS CHIEF OF THE

UIMEN WORKSHOPS OF THE OBRAS PUBLICAS (PUBLIC WORKS). LIVES IN

SEPAL FERIA, 193. CONT INUES.

77. CONTINUAT ION. RUPEN ALSO RECOMMENDS LEONARDO PUPO

ROVER OTPORN IN HOLGUIN. SON OF FRANCISCO AND MARIA. BORN ON 23 AUGUST

1939. LIVES IN THE EXTENSION OF PERALTA 36, HARLEM SECTION. WORKS ON CARGO

SHIPE OF HIGHWAY TRANSPORTATION (SIC). I NEED PESOS, TELL US IF YOU CAN

FAME ARJA HER CACHE. WE ARE RECRUITING ACTION PERSONNEL IN TODEN PLACES.

SENT REPORTS ON TARGETS ON 17 NOVEMBER. CONTINLATION.

1. 79. CONT INUATION. TELL ME WHAT OTHER TYPE OF INFORMATION

YOU HEED ON THE TANK PARK I REPORTED. I WILL ORDER AGUILAR TO INVEST-

IGATE WHO LIVES AT PUNTO TOFATE. THE EXPLOSIVE PATERIAL I WILL USE AS

SELECTED TARGETS. THE OTHER MATERIAL VILL BE PURIED. THE SUPPLIES VIL

CARRIED IN THE TRUCK OF MED TO TORLAR

THE EXPLOSIVES VERE DEPOSITED

(STOY IN THE FARM OF PULET. COORDINATES 584282, MAP SHEET 4975 IV.

DATACARD THAT THE TAY DAD rooten


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE IN 71784 PAGE 4

7A MAP CHEET 4979 IV IS SURROUNDED BY BAR BED WIRE FENCE. ONLY GUARD ARMED WITH A SOVIET PPSH WEAPON. IT IS IN A SENTRY BOX WITH PHONE LOCATED IN FRONT OF THE AGUAS CLARAS AND UNAS HIGHWAYS JUNCTION

PE ARE SEVERAL ANTI-AIRCRAFT INSTALLED ON A HILL AT NORTH, NOT BEING ABLE TO DETERMINE WHAT TYPE. THE AREA OF ALL THE CAMP IS APPROXIMATELY 1 HARD KILOMETER, THE AREA OCCUPIED BY THE TANKS IS ABOUT 1200 METERS. TANKS SEEM TO BE T-545.

A. 82. RECEIVED MESSAGE 36. DOIMEADIOS TELLS ME THAT CAMAY COMPENDS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE CELL IBRAHIN ROBERTO MAIPING MIRANDA/ IN MATANZAS, SON OF ROBERTO AND TERESA. BORN ON 16 SEPT 1918. MARRIED TO INES FERIA. HAS TWO CHILDREN, ROBERTO AND INES. THIS MAN WAS CHIEF OF THE RURAL CORPS DURING THE PRIO GOVERNMENT. HE WAS THEN PRIVATE INVESTIGATOR FOR SEARS AND OTHER COMMERCIAL AND BANKING FIRMS. BASIC INVESTIGATION ONE THESE PEOPLE IS NECESSARY.

L. 81. RECEIVED MESSAGE 37. CONTACT IN VICTORIA WOULD BE FERNANDO CARAMO. RENE HAS BEEN KNOWN TO ME FOR SOME YEARS THROUGH HIS PARTNER JOSE FELIPE CRUX COLON, DELICIA FARM. ALSO RENE WAS INSPECTOR IN MARTINEZ COMPANY IN PUERTO PADRE. IN VICTORIA RENE WORKS WITH SP. DR. OSCAR S. LAVYER IN VICTORIA. TRYING TO INVESTIGATE SCHOOLS ATTENDED.

YOU CAN PROVIDE SOME MONEY EXPENSES ARE VERY HIGH HERE.

82. STATION COMMENT: PLS INDEX FOR WAVE FILES WITH LEGENDS

INFORMATION RECEIVED FROM GOC CONTROLLED AGENT, VALIDITY OF INFORMATION CANNOT BE DETERMINED."


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)