# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. 8. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director for Plans

SUBJECT: Lyle STUART

Reference is made to your mezorandus dated 1 June 1964, in which you provided this office with several questions you wished to have passed to Hiss Viola June COBB regarding Lyle STUART. There follows the information provided by En vour inquiry:

1. Regarding Lyle STUART, Juan Jose AREVALO, and Antikomunisco en America Latina:

Early in the spring of 1962, in Mexico, AREVALO told ne that STUART Wus prodding him about getting another of his books translated, to take advantage of the publicity around The Shark and the Sardines. I was already far beyond speaking teras with SI ART and therefore declined to have anything further to do with him. About three months later, AREVALO told me that STUART was going to publish Antikomunismo en America Latins and that a young American student, married to a Mexican, Angela delli SANTE AEROCHA (who had written Arevalo, pensador contemporanco, published by Coste Amic, 1964, financed by Als Badical Revolucionario de El Salvador) was doing the translation into English. Early in 1963, AREVALO told me that the translation hadn't been satisfactory and therefore STUART had obtained a rom translation, by Charleton DEALS.

When STUART was here in Mexico in June, he told Dr. OSTGUEDA that he was very happy about the way the book was selling.

Inasmuch as STUART has paid AREVALO only 10 per cent of moneys received by STUART on the Shark and the Sardinen zales (in contrast with some book contracts in which the author receives 10 per cent of the money represented by number of copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would aesume he is no more generous with Antikomunismo.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

I know of no affiliations of STCART with foreign
political parties of government. His attempts to get close
to Fidel CASTRO in 1960 were motivated by a desire to exploit
the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original
interest in *The Shark and the Sardines* was apparently
motivated by money-making interests and by the hope that
he might spark a sensation - exactly what he did manage to
do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calculate
that there might be libel suits possible against the firms
and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

The original contract of AREVALO with STUART was
superseded by another in November of 1961, granting STUART
certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions
of *The Shark and the Sardines* and, I believe, establishing
translated into English.

Information about STUART's dealings with AREVALO
and whatever others, could be obtained (with guile) from
Eileen BRANT, who was his editor at the time of the first
contact with AREVALO. She subsequently broke with him
because of deep and bitter resentment against him, then
returned not too long ago to collaborate with him. She is
his wife's sister. She is certainly working with him now
only because he finally offered her a little better pay. For
her to have changed her mind about him would be almost
impossible, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents
that had brought her to have contempt for him, at the time
I knew her in 1961. She knows his operation inside-out.
In order to get information from her, it would be absolutely
necessary to approach her from some angle that would give
no hint of government investigation. She is very gregarious.
She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single
woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her). If
contacted by somebody she would assume to be a writer, and
who would be a bit friendly with her and see her off-hours,
she would probably talk freely about STUART. But she is
quite clever and rather worldly in some respects, so that must
be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY
DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in
liberal activities in Chicago, and if I remember correctly,
although she is certainly not communist, she considered herself
a little jeopardised by the Mc Carthy period.

Angela Delli SANTE-ARROCHE could also be contacted,
of course.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

2. Regarding Lyle STUART, Dr. Raul OSEGUEDA, Bartolome COSTA Amic, and Mario MONTEFORTE Toledo:

Dr. OSEGUEDA apparently has had a secret longing to get something of his own printed in English. He seized upon the opportunity of commenting BEALS' introduction to *Antikomunismo* in order to write to STUART this spring. STUART wrote very cordially back to OSEGUEDA, hoping to meet him on a trip to Mexico in June. When OSEGUEDA confessed to me his correspondence with STUART, he sought to make me see it as an attempt to speak with STUART about the royalties STUART has never paid me.

When Dr. OSEGUEDA finally did see STUART here in Mexico during the book congress in June, he only very timidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royalty problem, and indeed went to a great deal of trouble to serve STUART by introducing MONTEFORTE Toledo. (STUART had expressed interest in getting in touch with some publishers and writers.) OSEGUEDA bustled about, taking OSEGUEDA and MONTEFORTE Toledo to lunch with STUART, even managed to get the MONTEFORTE Toledos to invite STUART to dinner at their apartment. There were tentative discussions of collaborating in the distribution of COSTA Amic books in the United States and of publishing some book of MONTEFORTE Toledo's.

However, both COSTA Amic and the MONTEFORTE Toledos told me that they found STUART offensively vulgar and were not at all enthusiastic about having anything to do with him.

Two weeks ago, OSEGUEDA sketched the outline of a book (contemporary history of U.S. and Latin American relations) he hopes STUART will went to publish, and sent the outline up to him.

CECI-316/00789-04

WH/1/C. Bustos:chk

Distribution:
Orig. & 1 - Addressee
RI (201-278841)
CI/LIA
CI/R&A
WH/1
WH/PO/A

18 August 1964

BASIC: HMMA 24092

PROJECT: NONE

LIAISON: NONE

![secret]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO. DIRECTOR

FROM MEXIOC CITY

ACTION: WH

INFO VR

SECRSET 141643Z

DIR CITA MEXI 0582

LICOOKY

REF A. DIR 40439

B. HA1812041

LICOOXY/1 ANSWERS TO REF B SENT IN HMMA 24392 ON 11 AUG.

SECRET

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHISITED

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# DISPATCH

TO
Chief, WH Division

INFO

FROM
Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT
Answers to Inquiries Submitted in Reference

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

Ref: HMAW 12041

Forwarded herewith are answers to the inquiries forwarded in reference dispatch submitted by subject of 201-278841 on 6 July 1964.

![signature of Willard C. Curtis]

Attachment:
As stated above

Distribution:
C/WHD w/att

CS COPY

2 att

CROSS REFERENCE TO
![illegible text in a box]

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
HMA 24092

201-278841
DATE
11 August 1964

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PFC'S FILE NUMBER
201-278841


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# SECRET

July 6, 1964

LYLE STUART
AREVALO
"ANTIKOMISISMO EN AMERICA LATINA"

Early in the spring of 1962, here in Mexico, Arévalo told me that Stuart was prodding him about getting another of his books translated, to take advantage of the publicity around "The Shark and the Sardines". I was already far beyond speaking terms with Stuart and therefore declined to have anything further to do with him. About three months later, Arévalo told me that Stuart was going to publish "Antikomunismo en America Latina" and that a young American student, married to a Mexican, Angela delli Sante Arrocha (who had written "Arevalo, Pensador Contemporaneo") was doing the translation into English. Early in 1963, Arévalo told me that the translation hadn't been satisfactory and therefore Stuart had obtained a re-translation, by Charleton Beals.

When Stuart was here in Mexico in June, he told Dr. Osequeda that he was very happy about the way the book was selling.

Inasmuch as Stuart has paid Arévalo only 10 percent of moneys received by Stuart on "The Shark and the Sardines" sales (in contrast with some book contracts in which the author receives 10 percent of the money represented by number of copies sold multiplied by the retail sales price) I would assume he is no more generous with "Antikomunismo". I can ask Dr. Osegueda the exact terms, but I haven't been able to see Osegueda this week.

I know of no affiliations of Stuart with foreign political parties of government. His attempts to get close to Fidel Castro in 1960 were motivated by a desire to exploit the journalistic advantages of an interview. His original interest in "The Shark and the Sardines" was apparently motivated by money-making interest and by the hope that he might spark a sensation - exactly what he did manage to do with his outrageous advertising. He seemed to calculate that there might be libel suits possible against the firms and the newspapers he could provoke to attack him.

I am sure you have it on file, but I will enclose a copy of Arevalo's original contract with Stuart. It was superceded by another in November of 1961, granting Stuart certain rights with regard to other foreign language editions of "The Shark and the Sardines" and, I believe, establishing that Stuart should have first option of other Arévalo books translated into English.

Information about Stuart's dealings with Arévalo and whatever others could be obtained WITH GUILE from Eileen Brant, who was his editor at the time of the

* Published by Costa Amic, 1962. Financed by Als Radical Revolucionario de El Salvador.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

SECRET

2-

first contact with Arevalo, subsequently broke with him because of deep and bitter resentment against him, then returned not too long ago to collaborate with him. She is his wife's sister. She is certainly working with him now only because he finally offered her a little bette: pay. For her to have changed her mind about him would be almost impossible, I believe, in view of the long history of incidents that had brought her to have contempt for him, at the time I knew her in 1961. She knows his operation inside-out. In order to get information from her, it would be absolutely necessary to approach her from some angle that would give no hint of government investigation. She is very gregarious. She is a fortyish medium-attractive, lonely, New York single woman (unless her status has changed since I knew her). By somebody she would assume to be a writer, and who would be a bit friendly with her and see her off-hours, she would probably talk freely about Stuart. But she is quite clever and rather wortly in some respects, so that must be kept in mind in case she is contacted. SHE HAS A VERY DEEP AND LONGTIME NEGATIVE ATTITUDE TOWARD ALL GOVERNMENT AGENCIES INVOLVED IN INVESTIGATION. She was active in liberal activities in unicago, and I . although she is certainly not communist, she considered herself a little jeopardized by the Mc Carthy period.

Angela Deli Sante-Arroche could be contacted, too, of course. I vill look for her address at Costa Amic's office and pass it along.

SECRET

![CAP 1 Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

June 6, 1964

Lyle Stuart
Dr. Raul Osegueda
Eartolome Costa Amic
Mario Monteforte Toledo

Dr. Osegueda apparently has had a secret longing to get something of his own printed in English. He seized upon the opportunity of commenting beals' introduction to "Antikomunismo" in crier to write to Stuart this spring. Stuart wrote very cordially back to Osegueda, boping to meet him on a trip to Mexico in June. When Osegueda confessed to se his correspondence with Stuart, he sought to make me see it as an attempt to speak with Stuart about the royalties Stuart has rever paid me.

When Osegueda finally did see Stuart here during the book congress in June, he only very timidly and very, very briefly touched upon the royalty problem, and indeed went to a great deal of trouble to serve Stuart by introducing him to Costa Amic and to Mario Monteforte Toledo. (Stuart had expressed interest in getting in touch with some publishers and writers.) Osegueda bustlei about, taking Osegueda and Monteforte Toledo to lunch with Stuart, even managed to get the Monteforte Toledos to invite Stuart to dinner at their apartment. There vere tentative discussions of collaborating in the distribution of Costa Amic books in the United States and of publishing some book of Monteforte Toledo's.

However, both Costa Amica and the Monteforte Toledos told me that they found Stuart offensively vulgar and vere not at all enthusiastic about having anything to do with him.

Two weeks ago, Osegueda sketched the outline of a book (contemporary history of U.S. and Latin American relations) he hopes Stuart will want to publish, and sent the outline up to him.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

CAC. Bustos
UNIT : WH/1
EXT : 4506
DATE: 5 AUGUST 1964

MESSAGE FORM

ROUTING

SECRET

TO MEXICO CITY

FROM DIRECTOR

CONF WH 8
INFO VR

TO MEXI
LICOOKY
INFO.
CITE DIR
40489
REF: HMWW-12641*

PLEASE ADVISE.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *FBI requested that certam questions be given to LICOOKY
by us concorning Juan Jose Arevalo and Lyle Stuart, and the
book Shark and the Sardines. Justice is thinking of
prosecuting Stuart.

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OPPIGIAO

W. J.KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

AUTHENTICATIGO
OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

24 SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION : WH 8

INFO : CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, FI, SR 7, VR

SECRET 232241Z

DIR INFO MANA GUAT TEGU SALV CITE MEXI 3449

REF SJOS 6916 (IN39629)

1. NIGHT OD JULI LICCONY-I SPENT SEVERAL HOURS COMPANY MARIO SOSA NAVARRO AND DIANA GAMES. LATTER IS HONDURAN AND FIANCE HONDURAN COMME RODIL RIVERA RODIL. GAMES NOW DIVORCING, MEXICAN DIPLOMAT WHO PREVIOUSLY SERVED TEGU AND PLANS MARRY RIVERA.

2. ACC L-1, WHEN ISABEL GUILLEN DE ZELAYA, AT WHOSE HOUSE L-1 AND SOSA MET, ACCUSED SOSA OF BEING A "RUSO" LATTER MADE MILDLY DEROGATORY REMARKS ABOUT SOVIET UNION. SAID HIS WIFE AND SMALL SON IN GUAT AND WIFE NOW DIVORCING HIM.

3. L-1 INSTRUCTED MAINTAIN CASUAL CONTACT SOSA IN ORDER KEEP TABS HIS WHEREABOUTS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: MARIO SOSA NAVARRO ARRIVED IN SAN JOSE 22 JULY.

SECRET

![downgrading and declassification instructions]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

24
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# SECRET

Misty
File Licooky-1

ROUTING

|     |     |     |
| --- | --- | --- |
| 1   | 4   |     |
| 2   | 5   |     |
| 3   | 6   |     |

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO: SRT, CI, CI/OPS, CI/ICZ, CI/OA, FI, VR

SECRET 031759Z

13 Aug 64 IN 41779

DIR CITE MEXI 0444

REDCOAT LCLYPROVE

REF A DIR 39266*

B MEXI 9796 (IN 01559).

1. APPRECIATE A A APPROVAL USE LICOOKY-1 AGAINST KUKHARENKO. HOWEVER HAVE RECENTLY LEARNED FROM LIENVOY AND SUEJ REF B (REQUEST CRYPTO) THAT X DEPARTING EARLY AUG HOME LEAVE. WILL TRY INJECT L-1 AFTER K'S RETURN.

2. REPORTING BY DISPATCH SUB EREX B. RECENT NEGOTIATIONS WITH X EXCHANGE VODKA FOR TRANSISTOR RADIOS.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: LICOOKY-1 OA AMENDED PERMIT HER USE TO DEVELOP AND ASSES KUNHARENKO.


SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

RIG: Terry Ward
UNIT: W!!/1
EXT: 4506
DATE: 31 JULY 1964

TO: MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: WH8 INFO: JR7, CI, CI/OPS, 71, VR, CI/OA, CI/IC2

INDEX 27 S-E-C-R-E-T
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO. 201-260831

31 Jan 64 22 012

TO: MEXI INFO:

RE: REDCOAT LCIMPROVE CITE DIR: 39266

REF: MEXI 0306 (IN 30508)*

LICOOKY-1 OA AMENDED PERMIT HER USE TO DEVELOP AND ASSESS
KUKHARENKO. SHOULD NOT BE USED MAKE RECRUITMENT SINCE IS NOT EXPERIENCED
RECRUITER, FAILURE WOULD COMPLETELY BLUR HER TO SOVS AND SINCE HER
RELATIONSHIP WITH LINLUCK KNOWN, COULD BE UNFAVORABLE BLOWBACK ON
LINLUCK.

SINCE SOVS COULD PRESUMABLY COME IN CONTACT WITH LINLUCK
THROUGH LICOOKY-1, STATION MAY CONSIDER TIPPING OFF LINLUCK AT OPPORTUNE
TIME TO BE CAREFUL OF LICOOKY-1'S DOINGS AS CONTINUING STATION
INVESTIGATION OF HER DISCLOSES SHE ASSOCIATING WITH SOVS.

END OF MESSAGE

WH COMMENT: *Requested permission use LICOOKY-1 to develop high
priority SOV target.

CI/ICG/Burke (in draft)

CI/OA/Lally (in draft)

SR/O/WH Kasparovich Draft

WH/POA/Priest Prizet

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD

W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

SECRET

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

# 27 SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WHS

INFO : DIP WH/KAS, R/JAN, I.1, DI/INT, CI/OPS, CI, VR

SECRET 232313Z

TEGU INFO DIR GUAT SALV CITE MEXI 3431

REF TE/554736159

1. LICCOKY-1 SAID 27 JULY ISABEL A. GUILLEN ZELAYA, SISTER OF

LORENZO ZELAYA'S WIFE, TOLD HER MARIO SOSA NAVARRO AND SON, CARLOS, WHO SECOND YEAR MEDICAL STUDENT AT UNAN IN MEXICO CITY, CAME BY TOKIO NO. 35 NIGHT 26 JULY. ISABEL RUNS BOARDING HOUSE THIS ADDRESS AND L-1 NOW LIVING THERE.

2. SWLUCK-1 SAID 27 JULY RICARDO FREIJI, PCH MEMBER NOW LIVING MEXICO CITY, TOLD HIM HAD TALKED WITH SOSA ABOUT 20 JULY

3. INDEX.

SECRET

* c/s comment: Security MEASURES TAKEN by PCH. TO PROTECT PARTY members RETURNING FROM CUBA

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![group 1 marking, indicating automatic downgrading and declassification]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION : C/H 5

INFO : DDP, 100P, C/CI, LC/M/SA 5, VR

SECRET 2423372

DIA PANA BOITE MEXI 2374

REF A 4985 (R 33739)

1.  MEXI WILL ASK LICCOXY-1 MAKE DISCREET INQUIRIES TO DETERMINE VOEL GUERRERO SANTIAGO STILL EDI AND PRESENT ADDRESS.

2.  LATEST MEXI 0970 ORLANDO QUANT SUNTANA IS HNP-375 12 DEC

3 WHICH STATES HE TRYING COME TO KIDI, BUT NO INFO HIS ACTUAL AFFT
STATION DID NOT RECEIVE RINY 1002.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

SECRET

REQUEST FOR INFORMATION AND REVIEW

DATE
24 July 1964
dir

TO:
WH/1/Mexico - W.J. Kaufman.

C NO.
C-83492

FROM: CHIEF, CI/OA
/s/ Edward P. Brown
SUBJECT:
LICOOKY/1

IN ORDER THAT FURTHER CONSIDERATION MAY BE GIVEN YOUR FEQUEST FOR APPROYAL IN THIS CASE, IT IS REQUESTED
THAT YOU FURNISH THIS OFFICE THE INFCRUATION CHECKED BELOD, OR REVIEN INFORMATION AS INDICATED.

|                                   |                                              |
| --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| PRO I                             | REVIEW OF STAFF'S JOSSIER                    |
| PRO 11                            | REVIEW OF STAFF'S COLLATERAL INFORMATION     |
| FIELD TRACES                      | REVIEW OF SECURITY OFF. REPORT AT CI/OA      |
| RI TRACES                         | REVIEW OF SEC. OFF CONCURRENCE NEWS AT CI/OA |
| OPERATIONAL AND DIVISION TRACES   | REVIEW OF FBI REPORT AT CI/OA                |
| RESULTS OF TEC-ICAL INTERROGATION | REVIEW OF ATTACHED REFERENCE                 |
| GREEN LIST                        | OTHERS (See Remarks)                         |

NOTICE:
FIRST SECOND THIRD AND

I have discussed with Paul Burke, DC/CI/ICG, Mexico's request for amendment of OA to use LICOOKY-1 against the Soviet official. We both are of the opinion that she can be used for development of the target to determine his susceptibility to recruitment, but that she should not be used to make the actual recuitment should the matter develop to that point, due to these considerations: (1) She is not a recruiter, never has made a recruitment. (2) Odds are she would be blown to the Soviets, since we must consider that the odds for successful recruitment of a Soviet official are not favorable. (3) Her relationship with LINLUCK in Mexico is fairly well known, so that there could be an unfavorable blow back on LINLUCK.

In authorizing her use in the developmental role, Burke would like for Station to be informed that it should tell LINLUCK that Station's continuing investigation of LICOOKY-L discloses her association with Soviets; therefore, he should be very careful in his relationship with her.

SECRET

> Extract from automatic
> decalcification
> and
> reclassification

(20)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH

INFO: CA,CI/OPS, CI/K2, CI/OA, FI, SR7, VR

SECRET 222322Z

23 JL. 64 IN 34008

TEGU INFO DIR CITE MEXI 2348

REF A MEXI 0238 (29790)

B TEGU 5531 (30664)

C DIR 36752

D MEXI 2347 (33998)

1. DUE POSSIBLE USE LICOOKY-1 IN REDCOAT OP, HER FRIENDSHIP WITH ABEL CUENCA MARTINEZ AND WIFE, AND HER MANY CONTACTS AND USEFULLNESS AMONG CENTRAL AMERICAN COMMIES AND LEFTISTS MEXICO, STATION DOES NOT WISH INVOLVE HER IN OP AGAINST LUIS MANUEL ZUNIGA SARAVIA PER REFS.

2. RE PARA 4 REF C AGREE COLD APPROACH HAS LIMITED CHANCE SUCCESS BUT APPEARS HE MOST SUSCEPTIBLE NOW AND DOUBT THAT OP SUGGESTED REF B WOULD BE WORTHWHILE. VIEW HIS DECISION REMAIN MEXI AND POSSIBILITY HE MAY ATTEMPT WREST CONTROL PCH FROM BEJARANO, PROBABLY UNSUCCESSFULLY, HE MAY WELL TAKE SOME ACTION NEAR FUTURE MAKING REHABILITATION IN FUTURE IMPOSSIBLE.

SECRET

CIS COMMENT: REQUESTED MEXI CAREFULLY REVIEW LICOOKY ROLE REDCOAT

AND ZUNIGA OPS

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

# MESSAGE FORM

ORIG: C. Bustos
UNIT: WH/2 1
EXT: 4507
DATE: 20 July 64

[] INDEX
SECRET
[] NO INDEX
[] FILE IN FILE NO.

ROUTING

1
5
2
6 FT
3
7 D
4 8

212OUTINE 112

TO: MEXICO CITY INFO: TEGUCIGALPA
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WAR
IN: SR7, Cl, CI/OPS, CHIC 2, CYOA, Fl, VR

SIG CEN

TO: MEXI INFO: TEGU CITE DIR 36752

REF
A. ME: 0288 (IN 29790)
B. TEI 5531 (IN 30664)

1.  T J SUGGESTIONS REF B RE USE LICOOKY IMPLY HER
    INVOLVEMENT IN ZUNIGA TO POINT OF RECRUITMENT. (FOR
    INFO TEGJ, LICCOK HAS LIMITED CLEARANCE WHICH WOULD REQUIRE SPECIAL
    AMENDMENT TO PERMIT HER BECOME ACTIVELY INVOLVED IN SUCH OP).

2.  MEXI HAS ALSO REQUESTED SPECIAL PERMISSION USE LICOOKY
    IN REDCOAT OP OUTI NED MEXI 0306 (IN 30508) AND HDQS HAS RESERVATIONS
    INVOLVING HER ANY MORE THAN MERE INFORMANT IN ZUNIGA OP.

3.  REQUEST MEXI CAREFULLY REVIEW LICOOKY ROLE REDCOAT AND
    ZUNIGA OPS AND ADVISE ITS DESIRES.

4.  HDQS AGREES REF B THAT COLD APPROACH ZUNIGA AT THIS
    TIME NOT DIS DESIRABLE, AND THAT ANY APPROACH IDEALLY SEOULD BE MADE
    AFTER INFO COLLECTED AND ASSESSMENT MADE.

END OF MESSAGE

C/WH/2
WH/Honduras
CI/ICG E.L.Witeside
W. J. KAUFMAN
C/WH/1

DESMOND FITZGERALD
C/WHD

RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS

AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

20 July 1964

MEMORANDUN FOR: CI/OA

ATTENTION: Mr. Lally

SUBJECT: Amendment of the Operational Approval for LICOOKY-1 (201-278841)

1. It is requested that the Operational Approval for LICOOKY-1 be amended to include authority for Mexico City Station to utilize her as an access asset against a Soviet press attache and Soviet information bulletin representative.

2. It should be noted that the 29 June amendment of LICOOKY-1's OA was not implemented since that target's visit to Mexico City never materialized.

W. J. Kaufman
Chief, WH/1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: *SR 7

INFO: CI/CA, WH 7, VR

LSECRET 171724Z

DIR CITE MEXI 2325

RD COAT
REF DIR 31925

17 JUL 64 IN 30508

1. HAVE COMPLETED STUDY ON ONE OF STATION'S PRIME SOV TARGET
   FOR DEVELOPES, PRESS ATTACHE AND SOV DIFO BULLETIN REP, SERGEY
   SEM YO NO VI CH XUCHARENKO. SE NO OPPORTUNITY UTILIZE LATTER'S LOCAL
   CONTACTS FOR ACCESS SINCE ALL DECIDEDLY LEFTIST OR COOKIE.

2. REQUEST EOS APPROVAL DIRECT LICOOKY-1 AGAINST K, FOR SAME
   REASONS AND POSSIBILITIES CHO MEXIN221 AFTER APPROVAL BTAINED,
   MEXI WILL DEVELOP SPECIFIC PLAN TO FACILITATE HER INITIAL ACCESS.

3. FYI L-1 WAS NOT ADVISED OF AECCITASE OP.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *ACTION UNIT DETERMINED AS THOUGH INDICATOR REDWOOS USED.

**AMENDO LICOCKY-1 CA FOR USE AGAINST WOEYSH.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WHIS

INFO: CI, CHOPS, CI/FA. CRq, S1, S1/INT 2, PIJAMA YR

SECRET 151622Z

TEO-TO CIR CITE MEXI 0283

REF: (A-17863)

IS 29790

1. LICOOKY-1 SAID 15 JULY DIONICIO BEJARANO RAMOS AND RICOSERTO PADILLA RUSH TOLD HIM AND OTHER HONDURAN w... SAILED THAT LICO NANCE ZUNIGA SARAVIA, WHO RETURNED MEXI 24 JUNE FROM SOVIET UNION, DISCIPLIMED AT REGENT PCH CENTRAL COMMITTEE PLENUM HELD MEXI AND REDUCED TO SIMPLE CELL MEMBER. PADILLA SAID THIS DONE BECAUSE OF MANY ERRORS ZUNIGA HAS MADE. MRS ABEL CUENCA MARTINEZ, ZUNIGA'S MOTHER, TOLD LICOOKY-1 RECENTLY ZUNIGA HEALTH FINE BUT HE HAVING SERIOUS "PROBLEMS" WHICH WORRY HER.

2. JULY 15 L-1, WHO ORDERED BY DOCTOR MOVE FROM APT SHE RENTED RECENTLY BECAUSE IT DAMP AND COLD, SAID ZUNIGA AND WIFE MOVED INTO APT L-I VACARD WHICH LOCATED CALLE RIO TAYESSES 14, APT 3, MEXICO CITY 1, TELEPHONE 46-23-88. THIS ARRANGED BY MRS CUENCA WHEN SHE LEARNED L-I MOVING. ACC MRS CUENCA, ZUNIGA AND WIFE PLAN LIVE MEXICO CITY AND HE LOOKING FOR WORK. ZUNIGA'S WIFE NOW TAKING IN SEWING HELP DEFRAY FAMILY EXPENSES, AND S-1 SAYS ZUNIGA'S TRYING SELL

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN-29172 PAGE 2

BUSINESS THEY CAN IN SAN PEDRO SLA.

3. JULY 13 L-1 HAD DINNER WITA MRS CUENCA, ABEL CUENCA, ZUNIGA AND WIFE. L-1, WHO HAD SEEN ZUNIGA BRIEFLY AT CUENCA HOME JUST

ZUNIGA LEFT FOR SOVIET UNION ON 31 JAN 64, SAYS HIS ATTITUDE TOWARD HER HAS CHANGED. HE NOW FRIENDLY, TALKATIVE AND APPEARS WANT SE FRIEND, BUT HAS NOT MENTIONED PCH CR ANY DIFFICULTIES TO L-1.

4. BELIEVE ZUNIGA, AS RESULT PCH ACTION AND NEED FOR MONEY, MAY BE SUSCEPTIBLE RECRUITMENT APPROACH. COULD PROVIDE.

VALUABLE INTEL AND OP INFO ON PCH AND PCH LEADERS AS OF PRESENT TIME, AND IF RESPONSIVE TO GUIDANCE COULD PROBABLY REGAIN HIGH LEVEL POSITION WITHIN ONE YEAR OR SO.

5. IF TECU INTERESTED BELIEVE APPROACH COULD BE MADE WITHOUT UNDUE RISK L-1 SECURITY. USING LIRICE TEAM, APPROACH COULD BE MADE ON STREET CR AT OR NEAR CUENCA HOME WHERE ZUNIGA AND WIFE TAKING MANY THEIR MEALS. CUENCA HOME WELL KNOWN, AND IN VIEW APPROACH TO PCH MEMBER IN JAN 64 DOLET ZUNIGA WOULD CONNECT APPROACH WITH LA-1.

IF APPROACH MADE COULD USE OLIVER Q. WIMPHEN BUT DUE HIS DEEP INVOLVEMENT RECRUITMENT OPS AGAINST PCH TARGETS WOULD PREFER TEGU OR HOS PROVIDE RECRUITER.

6. INDEX.

SECRET

XC/S Comment: ACCORDING SWLUCK/ LUIS MANUEL

ZUNIGA SARAVIA ARRIVED MEXI 26 JUNE FROM USSR.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

ORIG: C.Fin:bc
UNIT: SR/O/
EXT : 6412
DATE: 26 June 1964.

TO : MEXICO CITY

FROM: DIRECTOR

CONF: SR 7

INFO: CI, CI/CPS,CI/OA, FI/WH 7/VR

TO MEXI INFO RIOD CITE DIR 31926

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
FILE IN CIS FILE NO. 201-286805
RIO DE JANEIRO

12-52
ROUTING

29 JUE 22 042

DEFERRED CEN
X ROUTINE

REDWOOD ALCOTTAGE

REF: A. MEXI 0021 (IN 14984)*
B. RIOD 5073 (IN 12837)

1. OA FOR LICOOKY/1 AMENDED TO AUTHORIZE ONE TIME USE AGAINST KOBYSH AS PROPOSED PARA ONE REF.

2. KOBYSH BORN 27 JULY 28 POLTAVA OBLAST. WIFE EMMA. SON SERGEY AGE ABOUT 6. FROM PHONE TAP INFO LEARNED SUBJ HAS OCCASIONAL DISAGREEMENTS WIFE. SHE ACCUSES HIM INFIDELITY... WIFE ON BAD TERMS OTHER SOVS RIO BECAUSE SON SUFFERS UNDERTERMINED AMOEBA DISEASE WHICH OTHER SOVS FEAR COMMUNICABLE. HENCE THEY HAVE THEIR CHILDREN SHUN SON KOBYSH. ALSO AGGRAVATING SITUATION IS WIFE SUFFERING HEPATITIS.

3. CAREER SUBJ: MEMBER RADIO DELEGATION NORWAY 54. ASSIGNED MOSCOW 55. ALSO 55 VISITED SWEDEN AND DENMARK WITH SOV PIANIST. RETURNED NORWAY 56. ASSIGNED NEW YORK SEPTEMBER TO NOVEMBER 60. MEMBER KRUSHCHEV PARTY MEETING KENNEDY VIENNA JUNE 61. ASSIGNED BRAZIL CIRCA AUGUST 62.

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

ORIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

ROUTINE
31926

PAGE 2

4. RE PARA 3 REF B: FYI ONLY FROM SENSITIVE HQ SOURCE UNDER KGB CONTROL IT LEARNED SUBJ WAS RECALLED FROM USA TO USSR BECAUSE OF INDISCREET PHONE CALL TO MOSCOW WHICH RIS HAD RECORDED AND CRITICIZED ON GROUNDS SECURITY. ALSO WHILE DUTY OFFICER RADIO MOSCOW INADVERTENTLY PERMITTED BROADCAST OLD TAPE RECORDING LAUDING HAMMARSKJOLD AT TIME OFFICIAL SOV LINE JUST OPPOSITE. (NO CONFIRMATION INFO THIS PARA RECEIVED THUS FAR.)

END OF MESSAGE

*Basis Ref B info, believe LICOOKY-1 would be excellent logical and feasible access to Subj ** (Subj) is Izvestiya and Radio Moscow representative

C/SR/ODE
CI/OA Mr. Brown (by phone for para 1)
WH/1 Mr. Spera (draft)
WH/5 Mr. Sulc (draft)

C/WH W Hood

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

CLASS: MESSAGE

SECRET

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY,

ACTION. SR 7

INFO : CI, CI/IC 2, C1/CL, CCC, F, CC, E/4, VR

SECRET 2522252

DIR INFO RIOD CITE MEXI 2221

REDWOOD AECOTTAGE

REF DIR 32675

RIOD 5273 G283

BASIS REF B INFO, BELIEVE LICCCY-1 WOULD BE EXCELLENT LOGICAL AND FEASIBLE ACCESS TO SUBJ. SHE HAS LEFTIST JOURNALIST CONTACTS TO FACILITATE ACCESS, IS ATTRACTIVE AND COULD BECOME AS INTIMATE WITH SUBJ AS NECESSARY.

2. DESPITE LIMITATIONS L-1 OF WHICH HAS AWARE, REQUESTSHES APPROVAL USE -!.

3. DIR: FLS PROVIDE MORE INFO SUBJ'S BACKGROUND, HIS VULNDRABILITIES,

4. RIOD: PLS SEND RECENT PHOTO, PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION. WOULD ALSO APPRECIATE ADVANCE TRAVEL NOTICE.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: GAVE B/D DATA OF KO SYSH, IZVESTIYA AND RADIO MOSCOW REP WHO POSSIBLE CORECTION-CT.

docly x 1886

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![logo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

SECRET

C No.83492

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, WH/1/Mexico

W.J. Kaufman

Operational Approval is hereby granted in the case of LICOOKY/1,
for the purpose specified in your request

dated 26 June 1964

Operational Approval for LICOOKY/1 is amended to include authorization
for her use on a one-time basis for the purpose set forth in your memoran-
dum dated 26 June 1964.

This Approval is based upon evaluation of information available to this
Office, and is granted under authority contained in CSI and CSI-F 10-5.

/s/ Edward P. Brown

CI/OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND SUPPORT DIVISION

Date: 26 June 1964 dlr

Distribution:
Orig. to Addressee
1 to Files

FORM
7-59 124 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(0)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

26 June 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: Chief, CI/CA

SUBJECT: Amendment of LICOOKY-1 Operational Approval

It is requested that the Operational Approval for LI-COOKY-1 be amended to include authority for Mexico Station to use her on a one-time basis as an access asset against a Soviet newspaperman, who will be visiting Mexico and who has been a target for deletion of the station. (See MEXI 0021 (IN 14984) and preceding traffic.)

W. J. Kaufman
C//1

DDP/WH/KJK/ASpera:kte (26 June 1964)

Distribution:
Orig & 1 - addressee
1 - LICOOKY-1 201 file.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WHD

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: Operational/Progress Report for Project LINLUCK for April and May, 1964

1.  Forwarded herewith is a progress report for Project LINLUCK for the period specified. This report was prepared by Leo C. HEDLICH, the outside case office.

2.  LINLUCK/1 has provided information for operational purposes on a number of subjects and/or individuals in which the Station has an interest or some sort of requirement from others (i.e., Mario Monteforte). Also, as sent, a volume of papers left by Major Alonso Frena Sierra, one of Yon Sosa's followers, at the time of their Guatemala revolt effort in 1962. Lee E. MYHILURAINE has gone through the papers and has had about 170 frames made. The negatives will be forwarded to Headquarters.

3.  The affair between LINLUCK/1 and LICOOKY/1 is, temporarily at least, suspended. Undoubtedly, the return of LINLUCK/1's wife had a good deal to do with this plus the fact that pressure was being put on the two principals by the Station. Whether this separation can be maintained permanently is difficult to say, but LINLUCK/1 has been put on notice that he is going to be subject to penalty if it isn't. Outside of that, LIN- LUCK/1 has been quite responsive to any requirements imposed on him; on the other hand, he has not been reporting on his personal situation and contacts as fully as he should. This will shape up however.

Willard C. CURTIS

Attachment:
Rpt, h/w

Distributions:

3 - WHD, w/att

3 - Files, w/att

![file illustration]

DATE: 15 June 1964

HQS FILE NUMBER: 50-0-50/3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# DISPATCH

INFO:
Chief of Station, Mexico City

FRCA:
Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT:
LICOOKY-1

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

1. On 29 May ODENVY asked KUDESK whether KUBARK had a current interest in LICOOKY as they had questions concerning Juan Jose AREVALO and Lyle STUART which they wanted passed to her. If we had no current contact they wanted to know whether we had any idea of her present whereabouts.

2. KUBARK orally told ODENVY that we formerly utilized her as a sub-source and we believed we could reestablish contact with her in order to pass to her the ODENVY questions. ODENVY was told that she was in Mexico.

3. ODENVY subsequently furnished the attached list of questions. It is requested that the Station pass this list to LICOOKY-1 and obtain from her, answers to be forwarded to Headquarters for passing to ODENVY. The Station is asked to comment on whether her testimony in court might be prejudicial to any KUBARK operations, or whether the Station can see no objection to such a court appearance.

Attachment:
1 a/s/c.

Distribution:
0&1 - COS, Mexico City

Chester D. DAINOLD

201-278841/

3 June 1964


---

![Routing Distribution Initial 1-RI/att RID/A chronok RID/MIS, WH3/Mex]

TPIST:
5940

HMMU-13641

CLASSIFICATION:
SECRET

HOS FILE NUMBER:
201-278841
201-6803

PRIORITY:
SECRET

OFFICE:
WH/3/Mexico/C. Bustos:chk

ORIGINATING
OFFICER

COORDINATING

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE | OFFICER'S NAME |
| ------------- | ---- | -------------- |
| CI/LIA        |      | Roman J. Roman |
| CI/OPS        |      | Hughes (draft) |
| WH/CAN/GUAT   |      | Carley (draft) |

RELEASING

| OFFICE SYMBOL | DATE       | OFFICER'S SIGNATURE |
| ------------- | ---------- | ------------------- |
| C/WHD         | JUN 9 1964 | Desmond FitzGerald  |

DISPATCH

FORM 53 USE PREVIOUS EDITION


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

SECRET

June 1, 1964

RE: LYLE STUART

This Bureau currently is conducting an investigation in order to determine if the subject has violated the Registration Act. His firm published the 1964 American edition of the book entitled, "Anti-Communism in Latin America," written by Juan Jose Arevalo, former President of Guatemala. The nature and extent of subject's relationship with Arevalo is therefore pertinent to our investigation.

As you know, Viola June Cobb, known to your agency, personally knows Arevalo and worked with him on the translation of his book, "The Shark and the Sardine." It is therefore possible that Cobb may be in a position to furnish some information which can be of assistance to this Bureau. We would appreciate if your agency would interview Cobb and endeavor to obtain answers to the following:

1.  What information does she have concerning the relationship between the subject and Arevalo regarding the book, *Anti-Communism* in Latin America?

2.  Does she have any information indicating that subject is in any way affiliated with foreign political parties or governments?

3.  Does she know of any contractual agreement existing between subject and Arevalo or between subject and any other foreign principals?

4.  Does she know of anyone else who may be in a position to furnish information concerning subject?

5.  In the event that Cobb is in a position to furnish information concerning any of the above points, we desire to be informed if she would be willing to testify in court.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : CI, CI/OPS, FI, FI/INT 2, RI/AN, VR

SECRET 212234Z

DIR INFO MANA CITE MEXI 9565
REF DIR 19514

1. LICOOKY-1 SAID MATILDA DE CUENCA, WIFE ABEL CUENCA MARTINEZ, WHO CLOSE EDELBERTO TORRES ESPINOZA FARTLY, TOLD HER 19 MAY TORRES SHARE PANAK AWARD WAS 83,968 DOLLARS BUT BECAUSE CURRENCY RESTRICTIONS HE HAS BEEN ABLE WITHDRAW LESS THAN HALF SO FAR.

2. INDEX.

SECRET

C/S COMMENT: *RE SETTLEMENT GUAT LA SUIT.*

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED

![GROUP Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification] Copy No.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

Ο
UNI:
EXT:
DATE:

: TO :
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF: WH &
INFO: C1, CI/EPS, CI/ICZ, CI/OA, 71, VR

INDEX
NO INDEX
FILE IN CS FILE NO.

27
SECRET

MEXICO CITY INFO GUATEMALA CITY


1
2
3


12-52
ROUTING
4
5
6

5 MAY 22 162

DEFERRED G CEN
ROUTINE

TO MEXI INFO GUAT CITE DIR 19165 201

REF MEXI 9238 (IN 73285) (NOT SENT GUAT)

1. HDQS FULLY SHARES MEXI CONCERN OVER *(LICOOKY)* AND LINLUCK PROBLEM. WE SUGGEST THAT PERHAPS ARRIVAL OF WIFE FROM PARIS MAY SOLVE PROBLEM OF LINLUCK'S RESIDENCE LICOOKY APARTMENT. STATION CAN QUERY LINLUCK ROUTINELY AS TO HIS FUTURE PLANS FOR WIFE WITHOUT THUS REVEALING OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH LICOOKY. PRESUMABLY HE WILL RESPOND THAT HE HAS SENT WIFE FUNDS TO JOIN HIM MEXICO. IF SHE PLANS STAY WITH HIM PERMANENTLY, THEN LICOOKY PROBLEM WILL BE ALLEVIATED. IF HER STAY ONLY TEMPORARY, THEN CORRECTIVE ACTION (AS SUGGESTED IN REF) COULD BE TAKEN IF NECESSARY. FEEL THAT THIS COULD BE EASIEST SOLUTION TO PROBLEM AS NEITHER AGENT WOULD BE FORCED TO CHOOSE BETWEEN OTHER OR KUBARK.

2. WIFE'S ARRIVAL MEXI OF INTEREST IN ITSELF TO HDQS AS THIS WILL HAVE EFFECT ON LINLUCK MOBILITY. WE ARE CURRENTLY CONSIDERING PLAN FOR FUTURE ROLE OF AGENT AND WILL ADVISE SOON.

3. FYI: WE HAVE NEVER CONSIDERED MEXI STATION TO BE MERELY CUTOUT TO LINLUCK. YOUR OFFICERS HAVE SAME AUTHORITY TO DEAL WITH HIM AS YOU DO WITH YOUR OTHER ASSETS.

END OF MESSAGE

RELEASING OFFICER COORDINATING OFFICERS AUTHENTICATING OFFICER

SECRET

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

GROUP 1
(excluded from automatic downgrading and declass station)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

DRIG:
UNIT:
EXT:
DATE:

TO:
FROM: DIRECTOR
CONF:
INFO:

TO MEXI INFO GUAT CITE DIR 19105

```
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
```

12-62
ROUTING
1 4
2 5
3 6

PAGE 2
DEFERRED
ROUTINE
```

WH Comment: Ref related Mexi concern at LICOOKY/LINLUCK re-
lationship, and asked for authority to pressure
them apart.

```
DC/CI/ICG
WH/3/Mexico

RAFORD W. HERBERT
AC/WHD
RELEASING OFFICER

COORDINATING OFFICERS
SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic
downgrading and
declassification

JOHN M. WHITTEN
C/WH/3
AUTHENTICATING
OFFICER

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

TO : DIRECTOR

FROM : MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 8

INFO : CI/CPS, CI/IC 2, CI/CA, FI, VR

SECRET 321330Z

DIP CITE MEXI 9235

LINLUCK

REF DIR 14975

1. LICOOKY TOLD CASE OFFICER 23 APPIL THAT LINLUCK TOLD HER 20 APRIL OF ARREST OF PACO AYADO ABOUT TWO WEEKS BEFORE IN GUAT WHERE ALLEGEDLY STILL HEL. ALSO OUT OF LAST PAYMENT SENT THOUSAND DOLLARS TO HIS WIFE FOR PASSAGE MEXI. NEITHER FACT REPORTED REDLICH.

2. STATION IN AYYARD SITUATION ACTING AS COYYO CHANNEL AT DISCRETION AGENT WHO NOT PLAYING PALL ESPECIALLY RE REPORTING INFO OF DEVIOUS KUSARK INTEREST. FEEL PEDLICH CAPABLE DEALING WITH LINLUCK IF GIVEN AUTHORITY. VIEW APPARENT DELAY IN HO DECISION RE LINLUCK FUTURE. STATION REQUESTS AUTHORITY LAY DOWN LAW TO HIM ABOUT MOVING OUT OF LICOOKY APARTYENT OWING "CURRENT GOSSIP RE LICOOKY WHICH POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS HIS FUTURE USEFULNESS". WISH USE 32 DAY CLAUSE IN REF CONTRACT AS CLUB TO ENFORCE ORDER. ALSO REQUEST AUTHORITY BRIEF HIM ON HIS REPORTING PEQUIREY ENTS.

3. REGRET NECESSITY THIS REQUEST, BUT LICOOKY SEEYS INCAPABLE INITIATING DISENGAGEMENT DESPITE FACT SHE HIGHLY OVERWROUGHT AT HIS TOTAL MONOPOLY HER TIME AND RESULTANT INABILITY DO HER KUSARK

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 2/2 PAGE 2

JOE. COULD RIDE WITH PRESENT SITUATION IF CERTAIN HE PLANS WOULD
REMOVE MIX MEXI BY SPECIFIC DATE. OTHER ALTERNATIVE IS OFFER
LICOOKY CHOICE BETWEEN LINLUCK AND KUPARK. UNABLE PREDICT RESULT.

SECRET

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief, WH Division

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

INFO:

FROM: Chief of Station, Mexico City

SUBJECT: LICOOKY-1/Comments on Meeting with Joel N. HIEBECKER on 25 February 1964

ACTION REQUIRED REFERENCES:

Action: None, for information only.

Attention: Joel H. HIEBECKER

1. Joel N. HIEBECKER, while in Mexico City during the week of 24 - 28 February 1964, met with LICOOKY-1, from 1500 to approximately 1600 hours on the afternoon of 26 February 1964, in connection with his review of the meeting site. HIEBECKER noted two unidentified young men who may have been conducting a surveillance of him. Later, at about 1630 hours, HIEBECKER saw LICOOKY-1 on Avenida Madero, about one mile from the meeting site. The case officer was requested to query LINLUCK-1 on any significant remarks LINLUCK-1, who lives with LICOOKY-1, might have made to LICOOKY-1 before and/or after the meeting with HIEBECKER, and to report same to Headquarters.

2. The next meeting with LICOOKY-1, as scheduled, was held on Friday afternoon, 28 February. LICOOKY-1 said that she did not see HIEBECKER on Avenida Madero on 26 February, and added that she did not have her glasses with her and without them cannot identify anyone more than 20 feet or so away. LINLUCK-1, she said, wanted to know with whom she spoke at noontime on 26 February (the meeting was arranged by the C/O via telephone and LINLUCK-1 answered the telephone), and later queried her regarding where she met and what had been said. He was satisfied, however, that she had been talking to a PBPRDHER and did not press the matter further. She did not tell him where, or with whom, or what had been said. According to LICOOKY-1, LINLUCK-1 has no objections to her seeing and talking to PBPRDHERs, but he objects violently to her having anything to do with any non-PBPRIME leftists or Communists.

(continued)

Distribution: 13 = C/WHD

---

CROSS REFERENCE TO:

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER: IDMA- 23027

DATE: 5 March 1964

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

CONTINUATION OF
DISPATCH

SECRET

BRA-23027

3. On 2 March 1964 LICOOKY-1 reported that she had decided to visit her brother in PEPEDASH for two weeks or so, and will take advantage of the trip to renew her tourist documentation. She said that LUDHUK-1 has become extremely difficult to live with since MELBECKER was here, and that she must get away from him for awhile. He objected to her leaving, but acquiesced when he became convinced that she intends to return to Mexico. LICOOKY-1 plans to leave on 4 March 1964, and will return on or about 20 March 1964.

Willard C. CURTIS

![Stamp]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# DISPATCH

TO: Chief of Station Tay Chi

FROM: Chief, WH Division

SUBJECT: LICOOKY-1

REF: HMMA-22258

1.  LICOOKY-1 was granted an OA on 27 January 1964 for use as outlined in the PRQ II forwarded with HMMA-22258. The OA as granted, however, was restricted to approval to use LICOOKY-1 in such a manner that information is taken from her, but that as little classified information as possible is to be passed. Specific requirements should be passed only when necessary, and should be made in such a manner that sensitive operational or ODYOKE programs, plans, and objectives are not revealed. The office granting the OA also indicated that the limitations proposed in the Station's comments in Section XVI of the PRQ II should be implemented.

2.  If LICOOXY-1 is ever to be used as a directed and fully controlled asset, without the lisations expressed above, an amendment to the OA will be necessary.

3.  Reference is made to Section X, para 1 of the PRQ II forwarded in ref, which indicates that LICOOKY-1 may be given a bonus for a particularly outstanding job. The Station is reminded that since LICOOKY-1 is a Contract agent, and PBPRINE citizen, her contract must be amended each time à bomus payment is contemplated.

Oliver G. GALBOND.

Distribution:
01-C0S, Mexico City

---

HMMY-12327

SECRET

WH/3/Mexico/C. Bustos:chk

10 February 1964

201-278841

5940

CI/OA 12 FEB 1964 Lolly

C/WHD J. C. King

DISPATCH

![Distribution ROUTM/ORI INITIAL photo]

![DESTROY photo]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

14-00000

10 February 1964

MEMORANDUM FOR: COG/NC

SUBJECT : LICOOKY-1

LICOOKY-1 was granted an OA on 27 January 1964.

She was recruited in June 1960 and has been utilized by SAS and WH Division since that time.

J. M. Whitten
C/WH/3

???


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)