# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

ROUTING AND/OR INITIALS-SEEN

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

DISSEM BY 35

ACTION UNIT WH8 FILE, VR RI/AN, EURG, CI/OPS, C1/C2, FI

ACTION NO. 078

SECRET 301723Z MAR CITE MADRID (13428

DIRECTOR INFO WH/MIAMI MADR

TYPIC QUANTUM

1. QUANTUM-57 PROVIDED STATION WITH NOTE DATED 201-269349 6 OCTOBER 70 FROM LAZARO GUTIERREZ MENOYO, IN

CUBAN PRISON, TO ADDRESSEE WHOSE IDENTITY Q-57 CHOSE NOT REVEAL. WRITER'S FATHER, DR. ZABALETA GUTIERREZ

WHO STILL CUBA, ARRANGED FOR NOTE TO BE SMUGGLED OUT CUBA. MAIN PURPOSE OF NOTE WAS TO ATTEMPT ESTABLISH

REGULAR COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL BETWEEN WRITER, VIA ADDRESSEE AND HIS FATHER, AND PEDRO M. DIAZ, 1251 NORTHWEST 30 STREET, MIAMI, FLORIDA.

2. ON BASIS ABOVE, GUTIERREZ APPEARS TO BE ELOY

GUTIERREZ MENOYO (201-269349) ON WHOM FILE NO LONGER HELD AT STATION. PLEASE ADVISE IF ASSUMPTION CORRECT, INCLUDING TRACES ON DIAZ.

3. DILE 201-269349. GP-1

SECRET

![photo description]

SECRET

30 Mar 71

201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

**SECRET**

REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED

SECRET 051617Z APR 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 10963

MADRID INFO DIRECTOR

OTYPIC QUANTUM

REF MADRID 13428 (299724)

5 IN304300

1. BELIEVE STATION ASSUMPTION CITED PARA 2 REF CORRECT.

2. AMOTS UNABLE IDENTIFY PEDRO M. DIAZ. STATION FILES CONTAIN CARD REFERENCE TO ONE PEDRO MANUEL DIAZ, CUBAN CITIZEN RESIDING 124 SW 18TH COURT, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHO WAS MEMBER OF ISLE OF PINES ASSOCIATION I EXILE. DOI: JAN 63). THIS MAY BE DIAZ OF REF IN VIEW OF FACT THAT ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO AT ISLE OF PINES PRISON.

3. FILE 201-269349. GP-1

SECRET

CS COPY

SECRET

5 APR 71

201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

For Subject's (201-269349) role in coordinated U. S. Army clandestine operation F/9/15-63, please see 201-269895.

F: 201-269349

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 12 OCTOBER 1971

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: NOEL SALAS SANTOS

FBI FILE NO: 105-7548 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 6 MAY 1971
CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL
SURJECT: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (NEWARK)

DATE: 26 FEBRUARY 1971
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ANTONIO MATEU RODRIGUEZ
FBI FILE NO: 105-19301 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT

|                            | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |
| -------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 2. RI FILE NO.             |                                |
| 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. | SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE             |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM        | 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
| 5. ANALYST                 | 6. DATE PROCESSED              |
| 10. DISSEMINATED IN        | 11. DATE                       |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, ELOY
201-269349
SEX M COB ?

CIT ?
OCC ?
NOTED IN REPORT ON STATUS OF POLITICAL
PRISONERS

019-005-046
323-2071470
15 JUL 70

R 7008191478

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FILE IN 201-269349

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONs.

SECRET
(7-68)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

# CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION
PERSON/UNCT NOTIFIED

# SECRET
(When Filled In)
APR 5 3 34 PH '71
ACTION COPY

SECRET 051617Z APR 71 CITE WH/MIAMI 10963
MADRID INFO DIRECTOR
TYPIC QUANT UM 5APR IN304300
REF MADRID 13428 (299724)

1. BELIEVE STATION ASSUMPTION CITED PARA 2 REF CORRECT.

2. AMOTS UNABLE IDENTIFY PEDRO M. DIAZ. STATION FILES CONTAIN CARD REFERENCE TO ONE PEDRO MANUEL DIAZ, CUBAN CITIZEN RESIDING 124 SW 18TH COURT, MIAMI, FLORIDA, WHO WAS MEMBER OF ISLE OF PINES ASSOCIATION IN EXILE. DOI: JAN 63). THIS MAY BE DIAZ OF REF IN VIEW OF FACT THAT ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO AT ISLE OF PINES PRISON.

3. FILE 201-269349. GP-1

SECRET

![Handwritten notes regarding individuals being moved from El Combate prison]

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINATION CLASSIFIED MESSAGE TOTAL COPIES 22-1

SECRET

ADVANCE COPY ISSUED LOTTED

FILE, VR RI/AN, EUR6, C1/OPS, C1/C2, F/

301729Z MAR 71 CITE MADRID 13425

TYPIC QUANTUM

30 MAR 299724

1. QUANTUM-57 PROVIDED STATION WITH NOTE DATED 6 OCTOBER 70 FROM LAZARO GUTIERREZ MENOYO, IN CUBAN PRISON, TO ADDRESSEE WHOSE IDENTITY Q-57 CHOSE NOT REVEAL. WRITER'S FATHER, DR. ZABALETA GUTIERREZ WHO STILL CUBA, ARRANGED FOR NOTE TO BE SMUGGLED OUT CUBA. MAIN PURPOSE OF NOTE WAS TO ATTEMPT ESTABLISH REGULAR COMMUNICATIONS CHANNEL BETWEEN WRITER, VIA ADDRESSEE AND HIS FATHER, AND PEDRO M. DIAZ, 1251 NORTHWEST 30 STREET, MIAMI, FLORIDA.

2. ON BASIS ABOVE, GUTIERREZ APPEARS TO BE ELOY GUTIERREZ MENOYO (231-269349) ON WHOM FILE NO LONGER HELD AT STATION. PLEASE ADVISE IF ASSUMPTION CORRECT, INCLUDING TRACES ON DIAZ

3. FILE 201-269349. GP-1

SECRET

ACTION

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

# SECRET

FP

ALBRIGHT KEN
WH/C/OP
EXT. 7144

GB-547
3038
TUBE DU3

NAME CHECK AND CONSOLIDATION REQUEST

DATE

2 April 71

RID CONTROL NO.

00016 APR 571

| TO           | TUBE | ROOM     | DATE         | INITIALS |
| ------------ | ---- | -------- | ------------ | -------- |
| RID INDEX    | DT3  | 184003   | 6 April 1971 | bp       |
| REQUESTER    | 2    | 5 que 71 | le           |          |
| RID/FILES    | DT1  | 6C52     |              |          |
| REQUESTER    |      |          |              |          |
| RID/ANALYSIS | CT-  | GA50     |              |          |
| RID/INDEX    | DT-5 | 184003   | we           |          |

CHECKING INSTRUCTIONS AND NOTES

Enter no. of references ordered

Cable request for traces.

Cubans only Listed

| SURNAME   | SUBJECT TO BE CHECKED | GIVEN NAMES |
| --------- | --------------------- | ----------- |
| C-2000 Ds | DIAZ                  | Pedro M.    |

SPELLING VARIATIONS TO BE CHECKED

201 NO. IF KNOWN

AKA. ALIASES

| SEX | DATE OF BIRTH | PLACE OF BIRTH | CITIZENSHIP | RESIDENCE                     |
| --- | ------------- | -------------- | ----------- | ----------------------------- |
| M   | ?             | Cuba (?)       | Cuba        | 1251 NW 30 Street, Miami, Fla |

OTHER IDENTIFYING DATA (Occupation, CP membership, J. S. affiliations, etc.)

One Lazaro Gutierrez Menoyo, in prison in Cuba, is attempting to establish regular letter commo channel to DIAZ.

NO PERTINENT IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION

RESULTS OF RID/INDEX CHECK

COMMENTS

CARD-REFERENCES ATTACHED

INSTRUCTIONS FOR REQUESTERS

IN ALL CASES

TO ORDER DOCUMENTS:

a. Review index card reproductions.

b. Draw green diagonal line across items you do not want.

c. Forward to RID/Files.

After receipt of documents, edit the card reproductions (See CSI 70-19):

a. To destroy cards: Mark green D and cite reason on card reproduction

b. To make corrections/additions: Enter appropriate changes to card reproductions in green.

c. Forward to RID/AN.

NOTE 1. Predecessor records that meet indexing criteria are carded in the CS Main Index. If a further search of COI, SSU, OSS, or CIG records is desired contact RID/ARD.

201 CONSOLIDATION: SEE CSI 70-20

1. If subject has a 201 file, return only this form to RID/AN with reproductions of index cards marked in green to reflect the consolidation action taken.

2. When subject has no 201 file, but meets a requirement for opening a 201 file, return this form to RID/201 with a. and b. below:

a. Completed Form 831

b. All pertinent documents, extracts, and properly edited index card reproductions for consolidation of the new 201 file by RID/201.

NOTE 2: Information concerning foreign public personalities (except military) is available in BR/CRS.

DATE

FORM 200

SIGNATURE OF RECORDS OFFICER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

DIAZ/ PEDRO /SGT./

019-007-001
HKSA-00050
C4 JUN 56
SER 7
P1
CIT CURA
OCC POLICE AGENT
MGR OF THE NATL POLICE AND OF THE SERVICI
OF INTELEGENCIA REGIMENTAL /SIR/ WHO HAD
KNOWLEDGE OF COMMUNIST ACTIVITIES IN ORIENTE PROV. THIE

CIT CURA
ICL ?
IDENTIFIED IN A TEXT PREPARED BY SOC,
AS A ZEROCHARY AT THE PUNTA PRESIDENITE.
TASE I. 4. FIR SFNE.

DIAZ, PEDRO

201-735925.

SEX M DOB 02 JUN 42
CURA, MATANZAS PROV
CIT ?
OCC FISHERMAN
A USA, FLA, MIAMI
REF ISRM-13149, 27 SEP 63
AKA OF VERGARA DIAZ, HUMBERTO
SEP 63

CS COPY ATTACHED
PLEASE RETURN PROMPTLY

*751

019-300-003
OSA -96854
21 JAN 65
F*1
P4

![photo of card is rese]

127941

DAZ, PEDRO

2*-4-173-414
IPI.-2004


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX *POR* ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
AT REQUEST TO SUBJECT OF 201-816431

SEE APERTURE, CARDS ATTACHED

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX *POR* ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
AT MOSCOW STATE U
< USSR STUDYING IN USSR DURING 68-69 SCHOOL YR

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX M DOB ?
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
4 CUBA, HABANA PROVINCE, SAN JOSE DE LAS
LAJAS
SUBJ DESCRIBED AS NEO-COMMUNIST.


DIAZ, PEDRO /OP./
SEX M *DOB* ?
CIT CUBA
OCC GOVT OFFICIAL
DIV CHIEF OF THE PIN OF STATE DIV DE
CONVENIOS, TRATADOS, CONVENCIONES Y REUNIONES.
SUBJ'S NAME APPEARS IN MEMO 85, DATED 02 OCT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SEUALI ..

DIAZ, Pedro Manuel

DIAZ, PEDRO MANUEL

75-6-4-322Y
HVCA-1579
ENCL. 1
PG. 25

DIAZ, Pedro Manuel

75-4-134-17
HVC 937

DIAZ, PEDRO MELITON
DOB ?

201-251144*

CIT ?

@ OF DIAZ-LANDA, PEDRO MELLION, BORN 10 MAR 24
MATANZAS, CUBA. CIT CUBA

A EL SALVADOR
FORMER MEMBER OF BRAC
RECEIVED POLITICAL ASYLUM TO EL SALVADOR MAY 59

127989


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

DIAZ, Fedro Martinez

4-6-5-1
(TAPA-1611)

Martines Diaz, Pedro

DIAZ, Pedro Maximo

DIAZ, Pedro Manuel

75-4-11-2
(TVCA-1408)
2
(I. 194

DIAZ, PEDRO MANUEL

75-6-4-572
(HVEA-1983)
ATTACH.
PG. 1476

127983


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

DIAZ, Pedro

201-53613
(TAB-A-1685)
(TS# 92809)
(Page 3)

THIS COLDED

127949. 
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

DIAZ, PEDRO

SEX M DOB ?

CIT CURA

NCC ?

COMMUNIST SYMPATHIZER AND EMPLOYEE OF THE ROAD AND PUPIC WORKS DEPT. OF VICTORIA DE LAS TIPIAS, CURA-

019-904-103
MKS-0-1067
20 MAY 57
SF 57
P4

DIAZ, PEDRO

SEX M DOB

CIT

OCC

BUSINESSMAN. SPANIARD ACIVE IN PROMOTING PEACE CONF. IN URUGUAY AUG 52.

012525A5

200-004-078
Tum -01303
00 000 52
SUR 400

CORR. CARD

JIAZ, PEDRO

SEX M DOB ?

CIT CUINA

JCC POLICE AGENT

019-002-000
HKSA-00016
21 NOV 55
SER 14

PLAIN CLOTHES NATL POLICE SGT ALLEGEDLY IN CHARGE OF THE DETAIL INVESTIGATIN ANTI BATISTA ACIVITIES. CHIEF OF BRAZ IN SANTIAGO 400.

DIAZ PEDRO

ROPN 07-06-04 CURA GUANTANAMO

201-161423*

RES. CUPA OCCUPATION

![photo of a card with the words 'CARD, FILED IN, MAIN, INDEX']

127937


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

SLXM DO3 C 05
CIT CUBA
OCC PUBLIC WORKS EMPLOYEE
& CUBA, MATANZAS, COLISEO, URRITIA SECTION.
502J FOUNT IFIED AS COMMUNIST IN COLISEO,
101 APR 2.

019 004-134
UF GA-06555 201
15 NOV 02
P2

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX M. D03 ?
CIT?
OCC?
COMMIE EMPLOYED BY CHILEAN STATE RR.

015-004-204
HCS-20129
20 JAN 53
CHILE
SER. 871

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX M DO?
CIT ?
occ
IN URUGUAY. PRES. OF ATENSO IN MONTEVIDEO.

073-124-003
HJW-00253-02
CO JUL 53
XR. 22

NIAZ, Pedro

IN 21177
Quat 646

Quat - 30 Mar 52

![photo of a form with handwriting. The text reads "This card is of value", followed by words such as "Rate of bach", "Rate of in", "Citizond", and "Pon inf" in a handwritten style.]

127940


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX ? DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
050-006-003
25RA-01041
03 DEC 52
SER. 1006

CORR CARD

DIAZ, Pedro (Dr.)
73-5-2
(illegible)
TOZ-303
(b. 2)

DIAZ, PEDRO
ALIAS OF DE BELLO PEDRESCHI,
CARLOS GUILLERMO
56-4-133
HZP-02140
4 JUN 57

DIAZ, PEDRO
SEX M DOB C 07
019-500
UFG-00889
11 APR 62
P3
CIT CUBA
OCC ?
MEMBER DEFENSE COMMITTEE LOCATED AT CORNER
OF PRIMERA AVENIDA AND CALLE 29, VERADERO,
MATANZAS PROVINCE, CUBA

127944

0142915


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

# DIAZ, PEDRO

SEX M DO3

CIT "

OCC "

10-006-004
TABW-01697
CONOV 50
SER. 202

COMIE PARTY MEMBERS REFERENCES TO THE
FOLLOWING: PEDRO ORTEGA DIAZ /147/,
DRO J. DIAZ /1950/, PEDRO P. DIAZ /1949/.
PEDRO OLIVER DIAZ/1950/

CORR. CARO

127943

DIAZ, PEDRO

SEX M DOB ?

CIT?

OCC ?

COMMIE PARTY ORGANIZER.

015-004-004
TCS -01307
00 CO0 51
CHILE
SCR. 642

CORR. CARD

DIAZ, Pedro

akaPico DIAZ sref

DIAL, Peiro

127951

17-6-4-28
EET 28
(Enel 17
Page

![This card is of value]

![Date of birth]
![Place of birth]
![Citizenship]
![Foot info]

127948

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 18 JANUARY 1971

CLASSIFICATION: CONFIDENTIAL

SUBJECT: ENRIQUE MUNEZ ALVAREZ

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (SAN JUAN)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINA
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
SECRET
(When filled in)
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
ADVANCE COPY  ISSUED  SLOTTED
INDEX YES NO
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO
BY: AT: Z
X REF TO CS FILE NO
FILE RID RETURN TO BRANCH
DISSEM BY: PER
ACTION UNIT WH8 FILE, VR RelAn, CT/OPS, Fl
ACTION NO. 192

SECRET 191325Z DEC 70 CITE WH/MIAMI 9322 19 DEC IN-2299,
DIRECTOR
TYPIC

1. AMPALM-4 INFORMED STATION ON 11 DECEMBER
   THAT HE HAD BEEN TOLD BY CARLOS (SARACAT), WHO IMPORTANT
   ALPHA 66 SUB-CHIEF, WHO LEARNED OF IT FROM AIDRES
   (NAZARIO) SAXCENI, LEATER OF ALPHA 66 THAT ALPHA 66
   HAD RECENTLY RECEIVED A LETTER FROM ELOY (GUTIERREZ)
   MENOYO WRITTEN FROM A CUBAN JAIL. SARAGAT TOLD AMPALM-4
   THAT HE WANTED HIM TO LOOK AT THE LETTER AND ADVISE
   SARAGAT ON POSSIBLE COURSES OF ACTION. (APPARENTLY
   NAZARIO HAD ASKED SARACAT FOR ADVISE.) AMPALM-4
   EXPECTED TO SEE THE LETTER DURING WEEKEND 12-14 DECEMBER.
   HOWEVER, SARAGAT INFORMED AMPALM-4 THAT HE COULD NOT
   SHOW HIM THE LETTER AS ALPHA 65 HAD DECIDED TO LIMIT
   ITS READERSHIP.

2. ACCORDING TO SARACAT, THE LETTER APPEARED TO
   HAVE BEEN WRITTEN BY GUTIERREZ, ALTHOUGH APPARENTLY
   MORE THAN ONE PERSON PARTICIPATED IN THE EDITING.
   GUTIERREZ PRESENTED THREE POINTS FOR ALPHA 66'S

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

CABLE SECRETARIAT DISSEMINA
PERSONURIT NOTIMED

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL CORIES
**SECRET**
GROL
1
2
(When Filled in)
3
REPRODUCTION OF THIS COPY PROHIBITED
4
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED
SLOTTED
INDEX YES NO
BY.
AT:
Z
CLASSIFY TO CS FILE NO
DISSEN BY
PER
X-REF TO CS FILE NO
ACTION UNIT
NFO
FILE, VR
FILE RID
RETURN TO
BRANCH
ACTION MO
![Forwarded text, contains date] FORWARDED RID/AN DEC 13 10 29 AM '70

PAGE 2 WH/MIAMI 9820 SECRET

CONSIDERATION REGARDING POSSIBLE EVENTS IN CUBA.

GUTIERREZ CONTINUED WITH OTHER POINTS CONCERNING THE
PARTICIPATION OF OTHER EXILE GROUPS IN THESE EVENTS.

GUTIERREZ REQUESTED A RESPONSE TO HIS PLANS.

3. AMPALM-4 NOT AELE LEARN MORE THAN INFORMATION
   PRESENTED PARAS I AND C, ALTHOUGH HE STILL TRYING.

4. FILE: 19-303-3 AND 231-273453. GP-1

SECRET

![text of the document classified secret] SFCRET 201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                             |                                                    |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                                      |                                                    |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE       |                                                    |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                                   | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
|                                 | 10. DISSEMINATED IN                                 | 11. DATE                                           |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |                                                    |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, ELOY
201-269349
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC ?
CONNECTED WITH THE 2ND FRONT ESCOMBREY AND
MENTIONED IN THE DEBRIEFING OF SUBJ OF
201-354143

201-354143
UFAA-01387A01
16 OCT 69
P2

R 6910300820

FILE IN 201-269349

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET

(7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 23

SECRET
(When Filled In)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT                   | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION        |                     |          |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------------- | -------- |
| 2. RI FILE NO.                        |                                |                     |          |
| 3. DISPATCH DA SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. | 4- DATE                        |                     |          |
| 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM                   | 8. ATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION  |                     |          |
| 5. ANALYST                            | 6. DATE PROCESSED              | 10. DISSEMINATED IN | 11. DATE |
| DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                  |                                |                     |          |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE       | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |                     |          |

14. 
PERTINENT INFORMATION

GUTIERREZ-MENOYO, ELLY
201-269349
SEX N D08?

CIT ?
OCC ?
ATI 2 P1 AND 2. FORMER FAR MAJOR, CURRENTLY
IN JAIL IN CUBA SINCE AN INFILIRATION
MISSION FR MIAMI IN 66.

019-006-033/03
UFAA-01135
25 JUL 69

R 6908040524

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-269349

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
9-37
SECRET
(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 24

FBI DOCUREER

DATE: 25 SEPTEMBER 1968

CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN

SUBJECT: RAFAEL RAMON NUGUET DEL VALAS

FBI FILE NO: 105-10798 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 25

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO ALL NAMES
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO. 201-369343
X-REF Το Γυάλα. 201-321168
TOTAL COPIES
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG. WH/COG/FI
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ACTION WH/0068 RID/COPY ADVANCE COPY ISSUED SLOTTED TUSED
INFO FILE, UR, WHS, EUR, Cilais, 11/08, FL

LL'AVE

SECRET 271887Z CITE JMWAVE 9958 MICROFILMED 17 OCT 67 81447
DEC471
MADRID INFO DIRECT OR
TYPIC osm UFG DOC.MICRO.SER.

1. ON 26 OCT AMCONCERT/ REPORTED HE RECEIVED SEX:F CITICUL
   OPER AT I ONAL LEAD FROM TANYA SALAS DE GUITERREZ, WIFE ELOY (GUITERREZ) ΜΕΝΟΥΟ (201-269349), FORMER HEAD SFNE (SECOND FRONT ESCAMBRAY, EXILE GROUP) WHO CAPTURED IN INFIL SAXIF I ATTEMPT CUBA APRIL 63 CLAIMS GLADYS RODRIGUEZ) DE LA OBRA ARRIVED MADRID CIRCA 22 OCT ON IBERIA FLT FROM HABANA. RODRIGUEZ IS COUSIN RAMON (QUESADA) GOMEZ (201-321168) FORMER REBEL ARMY COMANDANTE WHO CAPTURED WITH ME NOYO.
   AMCONCERT/1 SAYS QUESADA AND RODRIGUEZ CLOSELY CONNECTED WITH 13TH MARCH REVOLUTIONARY DIRECTORATE, INCLUDING THOSE WHO PRESENTLY HOLD GOVT AND ARMY POSITIONS.

2. NO JMWAVE TRACES RODRIGUEZ. FILE CHECK QUESADA SHOWS HE WAS 13TH MARCH MEMBER AND CLOSE FRIEND AMLASH/1 AND OT HER GOC OFFICIALS.

3. SUGGEST MADRID ATTEMPT LOCATE RODRIGUEZ AND DEBRIEF ON TARGETS OF INTEREST.

SECRET

B-201-321168

SECRET

201-269349

270ch 1967


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 26

SECRET
(When Filled In)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                            |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                                     |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE      |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
| 6. DATE PROCESSED               | 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE                       |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                               |
|                                 | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO.                     |
| 14.                             | PERTINENT INFORMATION                              |

GUEIERREZ MENOYO, ELOY
201-269349
SEX M DOB ?
CIT ?
OCC PRISONER
SUBJECT WAS TRANSFERRED FROM ISLA DE PINDS
PRISON TO LA CABANA PRISON IN OCT 66.
FFN-19-120-30-71/4

R 6708031283

FILE IN 201-269349

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.

FORM 867 USE PREVIOUS EDITIONS.
9-67

SECRET
(7-46)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 27

# SECRET
(When Filled in)

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                       |                                                    |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                                |                                                    |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4- DATE |                                                    |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                             | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 10. DISSEMINATED IN                           | 11. DATE                                           |
|                                 | 13. TRANSFERRED TO BI FILE NO.                |                                                    |

PERTINENT INFORMATION

```
GUTIERREZ MENUYU, ELUY
201-269349 201-300086
SEX M DUB ? MEX1-09677
 29 DEC 66
CIT ? P1
OCC ?
SNFE PLANS NEGOTIATE WITH GUC FUR EXCHANGE
HERNANDEZ ARMAS /201-301755/ FOR SUBJ, FORMER
HEAD SNFE AND NOW POLITICAL PRISUNER CUBA.
```
R 6704210128

```
FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-269349

![form 867 previous editions] SECRET
```


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 28

# SECRET

# DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT
DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION
RI FILE NO.
DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. DATE
SOURCE CRYPTONYMS. DATE OF INFO. EVALUATION
ANALYST
DATE PROCESSED
DISSEMINATED IN
DATE
DOCUMENT DISPOSITION
CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE
TRANSFERRED TO DI FILE NO.

PERTINENT INFORMATION

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, ELCY
201-269349
SEX M DO8 ?
201-300086
MEXI-09163
08 NOV 66
CIT CUBA
PL
OCC ?
SUBJ IS FIRST ON JORGE ROBLEJC-LORIE
201-300086 PRISONER LIST IF NEGOTIATIONS
FUR EXCHANGE OF POLITICAL PRISONERS
FAIL. ROBLEJO ALTERNATE PLAN IS TO KID-
NAP GUTIERREZ, WHO IS CUBAN AMBASSADOR
TO MEXICO, AND HOLD HIM FOR RANSOM OF 70
PRISONERS IN CUBA.

UFGNCS
R 6701121101

FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO.
FILE IN 201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 29

CONFIDENTIAL

# REGISTRATION REQUEST

NAME

*GUTIERREZ Menoyo, Eloy*

ALIASES AND/OR SPELLING VARIATIONS

DATE OF BIRTH PLACE OF BIRTH CITIZENSHIP

PRESENT ADDRESS OCCUPATION

PRESENT EMPLOYMENT

TRAVEL

ADDITIONAL PERTIDENT IDENTIFYING DATA

SUBJECT terminated w/o prejudice 4 May 66.

FROM SERVICE NO.

SD 8831

TO: INDEX DATE

TO 00: FROM: SECURITY

RESULTS COVER ISRM NO. DO NOT USE THIS SPACE

AREA DESK OTHER 201- DATE

COMMENTS

FORM 1797 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 30

FBI DOCUMENT

DATE: 4 MARCH 1966

CLASSIFICATION: SECRET

FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (WASH., D.C.)

SUBJECT: ELOY GUTIERREZ MEΝΟΥΟ


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 31

SECRET

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT             | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                       |                                                    |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                                 | 2. RI FILE NO.                                |                                                    |
|                                 | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE |                                                    |
| 5. ANALYST                      | 6. DATE PROCESSED                             | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
|                                 | 10. DISSEMINATED IN                           | 11. DATE                                           |
| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | DOCUMENT DISPOSITION                          |                                                    |
|                                 | 13. TRANSFERRED TO BI FILE NO.                |                                                    |

14. PERTINENT INFORMATION

GUTILKRLZ-MENJYU, ELOY
201-209149
SLX M DU0 7

201-791330
USMA-20300A01
29 ULI 65
P12

CIT CUDA
OLC 7
TUP CUMHANDLK IN SECONDO FRENTE UL
ESCAMBRAY AND JRGANIZATION AUTENTICLA.
NOW IN A G-2 PRISON SINCE TAKING PART 110
SMALL INVASION IN MAY 65.

: WAS 065-002-010/03
OSB

R 0706021137

15. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. FILE IN 201-269.349

FORM 867 *** PREVIOUS EDITIONS.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 32

FBI DOCUMENTS

DATE: 28 MAY 1965
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: ELOY GUTIERREZ MEΝΟΥΟ
FBI FILE NO: NONE GIVEN (SAN ANTONIO)

DATE: 19 MAY 1965
CLASSIFICATION: NONE GIVEN
SUBJECT: CUBAN INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES IN THE U.S.
FBI FILE NO: 105-1998 (MIAMI)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 33

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO: 201-269349 - filed by branch
X-REF TO FILE NO: B-201-749653
FILE RID: RET. TO BRANCH CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
DESTROY: SIG:

TOTAL COPIES: 24
COPY DUMMY
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM: Inmwire
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
ACTION: Williga 8
ADVANCE COPY: ISSUED SLOTTED TUOCO
TIME: OY
INFO: VR, FILE, DUP, C1, CIJOPS, CIIC2, CICA, F1, Williger - FI

C SECRET 120126Z
P DIR INFO MEXI CITE WAVE 8185
MICROFILMED MAY 9 1967
12 FEB 65 IN 78972
TYPIC AMSPICE
DOC. MICRO. SER.

1. 8 FEB 65 WAVE RCVD TELEGRAM DTD 7 FEB FROM AMSPICE/1 URGENTLY REQUESTING CONTACT WITH WAVE C/O. WAVE FOUND AMSPICE/1 REQUEST RATHER ODD YET INTRIGUING PARTICULARLY VIEW FACT AMBLINK/1 HAD LAST CONTACTED AMSPICE/1 ON 6 FEB PRIOR DEPARTING MEXI FOR WAVE AREA.

2. NOT WISHING USE PHONE FOR REASONS SECURITY, WAVE DISPATCHED AMBLINK/1 MEXICO CITY 8 FEB ORDER DETERMINE NATURE AMSPICE/1 PROBLEM.

3. 9 FEB AMBLINK/1 PERSONALLY CONTACTED AMSPICE/1 AT HOME. SHE STATED HAD RCVD URGENT TELECON FROM IDEN'S WIFE WAVE AREA ASKING HER COME WAVE AREA HELP HER CARRY OUT CAMPAIGN OBTAIN PBRUMEN GOVT CLEMENCY FOR HUSBAND. AMSPICE/1 STATED SHE FULLY COMMITTED ASSIST IDEN AND WIFE SINCE THEY OLD FRIENDS AND THAT UNLESS WAVE CO HAD STRONG OBJECTIONS SHE PLANNED PROCEED WAVE AREA WITH CHILDREN. SHE IMPLIED WOULD NEED WAVE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO MAKE TRIP.

4. AMBLINK/1 WAS INSTRUCTED BY WAVE INFORM AMSPICE/1 HIS SUPERIORS GREATLY DISPLEASED AT FRIVOLOUS MANNER IN WHICH SHE BECKONS ASSISTANCE AND WHIMSICAL NATURE HER REQUEST. AMBLINK/1 FURTHER

B-201-749653
ouer
201-269349

FORM 1-64 1389
OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS
SECRET
RI COPY RI COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 34

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

SECRET

IN 78972 PAGE 2 of 3.

INSTRUCTED AMSPICE/1 REFRAIN FROM SUCH TACTICS IN FUTURE.

5. WAVE NOT DESIROUS HAVE AMSPICE/I CONTACT IDEN'S WIFE THIS TIME ORDER ATTEMPT SALVAGE AMSPICE OPERATION, IF POSSIBLE, FROM DAMAGES THAT WILL IN ALL PROBABILITY ACCRUE AS RESULT IDEN'S ARREST. AS STATED PARA 11W UFGA 16565 DTD 29 JUNE 64, AMSPICE/1, PRIOR HER INITIAL CONTACT WITH WAVE, CONFESSED HER CIS MISSION TO IDEN, AND HER INTENTION DISCLOSE EVERYTHING TO ODYOKE AUTHORITIES. IDEN ALLEGEDLY COUNSELED HER DO LATTER. AS WILL BE RECALLED PART AMSPICE/I'S MISSION WAS PENETRATE IDEN AND HIS ORG.

6. WAVE OF BELIEVE IN SPITE FOREGOING THAT AMSPICE OP HAS FIFTY-FIFTY CHANCE BEING SALVAGED. SINCE AMSPICE/1 IS CIS AGENT, WAVE DOES NOT FEEL IT LIKELY THAT CIS WILL HAVE SURFACED HER NAME DURING IDEN'S INTERROGATION AS IT NOT LOGICAL CIS WOULD DISCUSS THEIR AGENTS WITH ONE OF THEIR AGENTS' VICTIMS. IF A/I NOT MENTIONED BY CIS, IT POSSIBLE IDEN MAY HAVE SEEN FIT NOT BRING HER NAME UP. HOWEVER, SINCE IDEN'S CURRENT SITUATION IS ONE OF LIFE OR DEATH, IT VERY POSSIBLE IDEN MAY HAVE VOLUNTEERED FACT A/I BETRAYED CIS ORDER GAIN ONE MORE POINT HIS FAVOR.

7. ORDER SAVE A/1 OP, WAVE HAS INSTRUCTED A/I AS FOLLOWS:

   A. SHE TO REFRAIN FROM MIXING IN IDEN AFFAIR.

   B. IF CONFRONTED BY CIS WITH IDEN ADMISSION SHE TO DENY SHE TOLD IDEN HER MISSION AND SUGGEST HER HUSBAND MAY HAVE BEEN CULPRIT.

   C. SHE ALSO TO CLAIM SHE DID NOT INFORM ODYOKE AUTHORITIES

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 35

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE IN 79577 PAGE 303

SECRET

AND WILL POINT TO HER INSOLVENCY, LOSS OF HER BUSINESS, HER PRESENCE MEXICO, AND VARIED ASSORTMENT PAWN TICKETS AND BILLS AS EVIDENCE SHE NOT WORKING FOR ODYOKE. SHE TO STATE THAT IF SHE WERE IN ODYOKE EMPLOY SHE WOULD BE LIVING IN LUXURY RATHER THAN POVERTY.

8. WAVE WILL CONTINUE CLOSE MONITORING OP IN HOPES A/1 CAN EXTRICATE SELF FROM CURRENT RATHER PRECARIOUS SITUATION.

SECRET

SECRET

12 Feb. 1965
201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 36

# DISPATCH

TO
Deputy Chief, WH/SA

FROM
Chief of Station, JMWAVE

SUBJECT
TYPIC/Operational
ADELL-1 Information on Eloy *GUTIERREZ* Menoyo

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET

PROCESSING

ACTION REQUIRED-REFERENCES

FYI:

1.  AMDELL-1 spoke with AMRAZZ-1 on two separate occasions and learned the following information with the dates and sources as indicated.

2.  AMRAZZ-1 spoke on 31 January 1965 with Sergio (LNU) who had just reached Miami from the Dominican Republic. Sergio stated that GUTIERREZ had gone to Cuba with three other men on 20 December 1964, landing near Baracoa, Oriente. The only members in this first infiltration were those arrested. GUTIERREZ had promised to contact his base by radio on 31 December 1964, but no message vas ever received. Plans called for another group of about seven men to infiltrate into Cuba at Baracoa on or before 20 January 1965. The group left the Dominican Republic on 20 January according to plan. Near the Cuban coast, they were pursued by three Cuban patrol boats and one airplane but managed to escape. The boat used in both infiltration attempts was called the "Betrand" which may mean a Bertram boat.

3.  AMRAZZ-1 reported on 1 February that he had spoke on 31 January 1965 to Reynaldo ABREU in charge of GUTIERREZ' affairs in Miami who in turn had spoken to Celio VAZQUEZ, GUTIERREZ' main contact in the Dominican Republic by telephone on 30 January 1965. VAZQUEZ stated he could not come to Miami at that time as he was taking charge of dismantling the base there. He also needed about $10,000.00 to clear up back bills owed by the group. However, on 3 February 1965, AMDELL-1 reported AMRAZZ-1 had again spoken to Reynaldo ABREU who declared the members of GUTIERREZ' group in the Dominican Republic intended to go ahead with the plan to infiltrate Cuba. To his knowledge a leader had not been decided upon but ABREU believed the only person capable was Angel BAÑOS. (See paragraph 5 below for traces).

/ CONTINUED /

Distribution:
3 - DC/WH/SA

201-269349

DATE TYPED
10 Feb 65
DATE DISPATCHED
FEB 15 1965

DISPATCH SYMBOL AND NUMBER
UFGA 19,816

HEADQUARTERS FILE NUMBER
18-9-12-2

CLASSIFICATION
SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 37

# CONTINUATION OF DISPATCH

## SECRET

### UFGA 19,816

4. Finally, on 31 January 1965, AMRAZZ-1 was invited to the home of "Pepe" (Jose) AGUIAR, secretary to Manolo RAY, to meet an Englishman whom AGUIAR privately described to AMRAZZ-l as the head of British intelligence in the Caribbean just released four months ago from jail in Cuba. Later, after being introduced, the Englishman told AMRAZZ-1 that GUTIERREZ had been arrested on 4 January 1965. He did not state how he received this information or when and how he had come from Cuba. AMRAZZ-1 added he did not know how AGUIAR met this individual or where he was residing. AMRAZZ-1 described the Englishman thus: about 30 years old, 5' 10", medium build, 160 pounds, dark complexion, British accent, spoke little Spanish, wore sport shirt and pants.

5. WAVE files describe Angel Gilberto *BANOS* Pantoja as a former U. S. citizen who fought in the Escambray, was a rebel army captain, arrived in the U. S. by boat along with Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo in 1981. He is considered a possible DSE agent. Extensive traces are as follows:

a. WAVE files: AMOT report of 21 September 1963, BANOS reportedly stated II-Front had boats stolen from Varadero in action credited to II-Front and Alpha 66; 12 June 1961 "Miami Herald" reported Subject arrived in Key West with Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo and others. Detained by Immigration and Naturalization Service at McAllen, Texas, released, arrived Miami 11 June 1961; AMOT report of 11 December 1962 describes subject as II-Front member waiting on a Key for supplies necessary to go to Escambray mountains; AMOT report of 22 January 1963 describes subject as contact of Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo, an ex-rebel army captain in Escambray during fight against Batista. Born Miami on 12 August 1943, lost citizenship for serving ia Cuba under arms, came to U. S. with GUTIERREZ Menoyo and detained in McAllen, Texas; CSCI 3/775,277 of 12 March 1963 describes subject as confidant and courier for GUTIERREZ Menoyo; memorandum dated 22 January 1963 stated subject reportedly returned from 40-day trip inside Cuba as courier for II-Front; AMOT report of 11 April 1963 included Subject on list of those presented with prevention of departure notices by FBI; CSCI-3/772,476 describes subject as reportedly anti-United States, pro-Communist; AMCHEER-1 report and AMOT report of 16 June 1962 describe subject as having worked in G-2 offices at Rancho Boyeros Airport and being commander of a militia group there. Belonged to National Air Federation in 59/60. Reportedly had problems with Cuban authorities over theft of a jewelry store.

b. Headquarters traces: DBA 49631 of 28 August 1963; UFGA 11981 of 18 October 1963; DBA 55602 of 24 October 1963; OSMA 13,496 of 26 January 1962; 00-1512, February 1961; DBF 49905 of 17 May 1960; DBF 77248 of 18 May 1961; WAVE 3206 of 26 January 1961 and WAVE 3228 of 27 January 1961; CS-3/378,712, HKH-1754 of 24 November 1958; CO-A-3/180,639 of 7 March 1961 and CSCI-3/764,579 typed 22 March 1961; DBA-32298 of 18 January 1963; FBI-105-6243 of 15 April 1963; UFG-04958 of 14 April 1964; UPGA 07467 of 30 January 1963; WAVE 03604 of 23 January 1983; UFGA 05173 of 9 August 1982;

ANDREW K. REUTEMAN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 38

SECRET
(When Filled in)

DOCUMENT TRANSFER AND CROSS REFERENCE

| SUBJECT OF DOCUMENT | DOCUMENT IDENTIFICATION                            |
| ------------------- | -------------------------------------------------- |
|                     | 2. RI FILE NO.                                     |
|                     | 3. DISPATCH OR SOURCE DOC. SYMBOL NO. 4. DATE      |
| 5. ANALYST          | 7. SOURCE CRYPTONYM 8. DATE OF INFO. 9. EVALUATION |
| 6. DATE PROCESSED   | 10. DISSEMINATED IN 11. DATE                       |

DOCUMENT DISPOSITION

| 12. CROSS REFERRED TO THIS FILE | 13. TRANSFERRED TO RI FILE NO. |
| ------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| 14.                             | PERTINENT INFORMATION          |

GUTIERREZ MENOYO, ELOY
201-269349
201-762117
SEX M DOB ?
UFGA-19792401
15 FEB 65
CIT ?
P4
OCC ?
INFO RE CONNECTION WITH BLANCA ROSA
MAURE (DE) CABRERA. WIFE OF SUBJ 201-762117.

R 6502191772

| 16. FILE THIS FORM IN FILE NO. |     |
| ------------------------------ | --- |

FORM 867
SECRET
(7-66)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 39

# SECRET

INDEX: YES NO

CLASSIFIER MESSAGE 269.3490 201-27349
CLASSIFY TO FILE NO 26234 SECRET PRODUCTION PROHIBITED

FROM REY TO FILE NO PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED

FILE RID RET. TO BRANCH

JMWAVE *

ACTION ADVANCE COPY SLOTTED TUBED 1/11/SA TIME 2145 BY

WH/SA 8

INFO VR, FILE, DCI, D/DCI DOP ADDP, CS/RF, WH7, CAZ, CA/PROP, CI/1C2,

*CI/OPS. FI, FILINT*

SECRET 0400522

PRIORITY DIR INFO SDOM CITE WAVE 7985 FI ABSTRACT

TYPIC

REF WAVE 7588 (68557)*

1 FEB 65 IN 73186

1. AMSCREAM-1 REPORTS KEY WEST JAMMED BY EXILES NIGHT 2 FEB TO WATCH HAVANA TV APPEARANCE GUTIERREZ MENOYO, DOMINGO ORTEGA, NOEL SALAS AND RAMON QUESADA. AMSCREAM-1, UPI'S MIKE ALONSO, AMOTS, AND AMSHADY-1 SUBSOURCES WHO WATCHED TV AT KEY WEST SAY PRISONERS LOOKED BETTER GROOMED AND DRESSED, MORE RELAXED THAN G-2 INTERROGATORS, SHOWING NO VISIBLE EVIDENCE TORTURE OR "BRAIN WASHING." ALONSO OBSERVED MENOYO LOOKED AND SOUNDED COLD AND CALCULATING, UNEMOTIONAL, IN CONTRAST WITH PREVIOUS CASTRO CAPTIVES SHOWN TV WHO SEEMED WEARY, TIRED, HOPELESS PRISONERS. AMSHADY-1 SAYS SOME PEOPLE DO NOT BELIEVE MENOYO WAS DRUGGED OR TORTURED, BUT PLAN SAY SO FOR PROP PURPOSES.

2. INFO RESULTING FROM MENOYO'S TV INTERROGATION BASICALLY SAME GIVEN BY MINFAR FROM PREVIOUS INTERROGATION (REPORTED PARA 3 REF).

NEW ITEM WAS RAMON QUESADA'S TV STATEMENT THAT HE RECEIVED CIA TRAINING MAP READING AND ARMS HANDLING. ALSO NEW WAS MENOYO'S ADVICE TO EXILES GIVE UP EFFORTS BECAUSE PEOPLE INSIDE SUPPORT CASTRO. GENERAL CONSENSUS AMONG EXILES MENOYO DID NOT REVEAL ANYTHING NOT

SECRET

201-269349

4 Feb 1965

FORM 1389 OBSOLETE PREVIOUS EDITIONS RI COPY RI COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 40

IN13186
P-2

PREVIOUSLY REPORTED BY EXILES OR CASTRO REGIME. THIS FEELING REFLECTED
MIKE ALONSO'S REPORT FOR UPI, AND IS THE INTERPRETATIVE LINE
GENERALLY BEING FOLLOWED BY MIAMI PRESS AND RADIO. EMPHASIS
CONTINUES ON ALLEGED ROLE DOMINICAN AND PUERTO RICAN GOVTS.

3. CANVASSING OF EXILE REACTIONS SHOW IMPACT MENOYO'S CAPTURE
   AND SUBSEQUENT STATEMENTS HEAVIER AND MORE DOMORALIZING THAN MANOLO
   RAY'S FIASCO. PARTICULARLY UPSETTING WAS MANOYO'S ADVICE TO
   EXILES THAT THEIR EFFORTS CAUSING UNNECESSARY BLOOD LETTING WITHOUT
   CHANCE SUCCESS BECAUSE PEOPLE INSIDE SUPPORT CASTRO. MENOYO'S
   UNEMOTIONAL DELIVERY AND WARNING TO EXILE ADVENTURERS THEIR FATE WILL
   BE WORSE THAN HIS BEING INTERPRETED AS EVIDENCE HE EITHER COWARD OR
   TRAITOR WHO KNEW WOULD NOT BE SHOT. AMCORE-2 REPORTS THAT EXILES
   UNABLE TO RECONCILE MENOYO'S ALLEGED BACKGROUND AS BRAVE GUERRILLA
   FIGHTER WITH LAST NIGHT TV PERFORMANCE AND FEEL ONLY EXPLANATION IS
   MENOYO WAS CASTRO AGENT ALL ALONG.

4. MOST EXILE LEADERS CONSIDER WORST DAMAGE FROM MENOYO EPISODE
   WAS UNDERLYING PROMOTION CASTRO GOVT AS POWERFUL REGIME AGAINST WHICH
   EXILES OR INSIDE RESISTANCE ELEMENTS CAN DO LITTLE. AMCORE-2 REPORTS
   SFNE PEOPLE ARE WISHING OUT LOUD FOR RAID BY ARTIME OR ORLANDO
   BOSCH TO COUNTER EFFECT MENOYO KUST HAVE HAD AMONG ANTI-CASTROISTS


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 41

SECRET

INSIDE CUBA. AKCORE-2, AMRAZONR-1 (AS RCVD) AND AMSHADY-1 AGREE THAT DEMORALIZING EFFECT MENOYO TV PERFORMANCE WORST AMONG OPPONENTS CASTRO REGIME INSIDE.

SECRET
CFN

SECRET

*Reports on JMWAVE area publicity concerning captured exile Gutierrez Menoyo.

IN 73126
P-3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 42

# SECRET

FROM: JMWAVE

ACTION: WH/SA 8

INFO: VR, FILE, DDP, CAZ, CA/PROP, CI/IC 2

SECRET 0400527

DIR CITE WAVE 7989 (ING HURST ACTING)

TYPIC PSYCH

REF A WAVE 1908 (73156)

B WAVE 7986 (IN731767)

1. STATION BELIEVES MAIN DAMAGING IMPACT MENOYO CAPTURE AND TV APPEARANCE WILL BE ON MOTIVATION ANTI REGIME ELEMENTS INSIDE CUBA.

MAIN PSYCH TARGET WAS OBVIOUSLY CUBAN POPULATION AND TV SHOW WAS DESIGNED IMPRESS DOUBTING THOMASES AND ANTI REGIME ELEMENTS THAT REGIME INVINCIBLE AND ANY RESISTANCE USELESS, AS LATEST IN SERIES EXILE FAILURES MOUNT EFFECTIVE ACTION OPS AGAINST CASTRO,

MENOYO CASE BOUND HAVE STRONG NEGATIVE IMPACT ON ANTI REGIME ELEMENTS INSIDE WHO WILL VIEW THIS AX ONE MORE INDICATION NO OUTSIDE HELP FORTHCOMING. BEST COUNTERACTION OF COURSE WOULD BE FEW SUCCESSFUL AND DRAMATIC RESISTANCE ACTS EITHER BY INSIDE GROUPS OR FROM OUTSIDE.

2. WHILE PROPAGANDA CANNOT CHANGE BASIC PSYCH ATMOSPHERE INSIDE HOEPFULLY CAN PARTIALLY COUNTER IMPACT MENOYO CASE BY RE-DIRECTING CUBAN AUDIENCE ATENTION TO LONG-TERM PROBLEMS CASTRO REGIME NOTING THAT CAPTURE FEW INDIVIDUALS CANNOT SAVE CASTRO FROM ULTIMATE

201-269349

4Feb1465


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 43

SECRET 10.731932

INEVITABLE DOWNFALL. UNDERLYING THEMES WAVE PROP WILL BE RESISTANCE TO CASTRO INSIDE CUBA CONTINUALLY INCREASING, ECONOMIC SITUATION DETERIORATING, INTERNATIONAL PRESSURE SLOWLY ISOLATING CASTRO, DOWNFALL INEVITABLE. FOLLOWING PARAS REPORT SPECIFIC PROP ACTIONS BEING CARRIED OUT.

3. FEB 3 AMCORE-2 RELEASING TO PRESS AND BROADCASTING OVER JMHOPE AMTHIGH LETTER FROM INSIDE INFORMANT REPORTING SUGAR CANE *BURNING*. RELEASE PICKED UP BY UPI AND AP 3 FEB. BROADCAST WILL ALSO POINT OUT MENOYO CASE ONE ISOLATED PROPAGANDA OPERATION BY CASTRO REGIME AND CANNOT CHANGE BASIC FACT FIGHT AGAINST CASTRO CONTINUES OVER WIDE FRONT: SABOTAGE, PRODUCTION SLOWDOWNS, ECONOMIC BLOCKADE, DISAFFECTION IN UPPER LEVELS REGIME, ETC., AND SUCH EVENTS AS MENOYO CAPTURE WILL ONLY INXPIRE AMCORE AND OTHER RESISTANCE ELEMENTS IN CUBA REDOUBLE BFFORTS SABOTAGE PRODUCTION WHICH ACHILLES HEEL CASTRO REGIME.

4. AMICE PROGRAMS WMIE (3 FEB) JMHOPE (5 FEB) AMTHIGH (6 FEB) EXPLOITING DECISION PANAMANIAN WORKERS NOT SERVICE SHIPS TRADING WITH CUBA AS SIGN ECONOMIC BLOCKADE CONTINUING, AND BLOCKADE TOGETHER WITH WORK SLOWDOWNS AND SABOTAGE BY WORKERS HITTING CASTRO MOST VULNERABLE SPOT.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 44

SECRET

IN 73193

5. ANDOFF-1 AIRPORT STATEMENT PER REF B EXPECTED TAKE SOME
   PUBLICITY LIMELIGHT AWAY FROM MENOYO CASE ANDOFF-1 WILL ALSO APPEAR
   AMCORE-2 PROGRAM 3 FEE.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

201-264349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 45

# CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

CLASSIFY TO FILE NO: 201-269341
X-REF TO FILE NO:
FILE RID:
DESTROY: RET TO BRANCH: SIG

84 SECRET

FROM: CARACAS

ACTION: O48 CHISA

ADVANCE COPY: ISSUED SLOTTED: TURED: Wtt

TIME: 1802 DD
26 Jan 65 IN 67522

INFO: VR. FILE DAP, WHISA8, CI/OPS, CI/OA

SECRET 2620192
DIR INFO WAVE CITE CARA 9835

IMMEDIATE ACTION

ON 26 JANUARY, DR. ARMANDO FLEITES, OF SEGUNDA FRENTE DE ESCAMBRAY, URGENTLY CALLED ON POL COUSELLOR EDWARD LONG (TWO WEEKS PRIOR
VIA MUTUAL FRIENDS FLEITES HAD REQUESTED ONE WEE VISITOR VISA "ON
COMPASSIONATE GROUNDS TO VISIT FAMILY IN WAVE AREA; BOWDLER IN PERSONAL
LETTER TO LONG ADVISED THAT FLEITES HAD FORFEITED RIGHT TO SPECIAL
TREATMENT AND WOULD HAVE TO APPLY FOR IMMIGRATION VISA). FLEITES, WHO
ACCEPTS AS PROBABLY ACCURATE PRESS STORIES RE CATURE GUTIERREZ MENOYO,
NOW CLAIMS THAT IN CAPACITY AS NUMBER TWO LEADER OF FRENTE, IT URGENTLY
NECESSARY HE TRAVEL TO WAVE AREA TO SPEND ONE WEEK WITH HIS GROUP.
STATES HE WOULD NOT EVEN WANT TE SEE HIS FAMILY, ADDING NOW WAS TIME
FOR PEPRIME TO PROVE WHETHER "FRIEND OR ENEMY" OF CUBAN FREEDOM. ON
OFFHAND CHANCE KUBARK MAY HAVE OPERATIONAL EQUITIES IN FRENTE,
COUNSELLOR LONG ASKS STA CHECK WITH HEADQUARTERS. TENTATIVELY ADVISED
HIM KUBARK NOT INVOLVED, BUT WOULD INQUIRE IN ANY CASE. SUGGEST HQS
ADVISE BOWDLER AND ASCERTAIN WHETHER IN LIGHT ABOVE NEW CIRCUMSTANCES
ODACID POSITION RE FLEITES ENTRY CAS STATED IN HIS LETTER TO LONG)

SECRET

201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 46

IN 67522
PAGE 2

IN ANY MANNER CHANGED. IF NEGATIVE, LONG WILL ADVIES FLETJES ACCORDING ;

SECRET
CFN

![image of a document page]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 47

# SECRET

FROM

JMWAVE

ACTION

WHISA &

INFO

VR. FILE, DDP, C/CFS FISPA17

SECRET 261724Z

PRIORITY DIR CITE WAVE 7519

KYPIC

REF WAVE 750.(166803)

26 JAN 65167362

1. ACSI REPS MIAMI CONTACTED WAVE CIRCA 1800 HOURS 25 JAN AND
   ASKED FOR EMERGENCY MEET 2200 HOURS 25 JAN IN ORDER COORDINATE PRIORITY
   OP WHICH WOULD BE DISCUSSED BETWEEN ACSI AND KUPARK HOS AM 26 JAN. WAVE
   AGREED MEET AS REQUESTED BY ACSI.

2. UP ON INITIATION 2200 HOURS MEET ACSI REPS STATED SITUATION HAD
   CHANGED COMPLETELY SINCE 1800 HOURS 25 JAN AND THEY NO LONGER HAD PRIORITY

OPS PROPOSAL WORTH CONSIDERING. ACSI INDICATED HOWEVER THEY DID WANT
BRIEF. REUTEMAN AND EDWARD F. HUSE BY, WHO WAVE LIAISON TO ACSI, RE RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS THEIR OP. THIS PRIEFING REVEALED FOLLOWING:

A. MAY 64 MIAMI ACSI INHERITED FROM ACSI PUERTO RICO OP WHICH
INVOLVED USE RAFAEL HUQUET DE VALLE (201-269895) AS POTENTIAL WAT
OPERATOR AND SINGLET ON INTEL COLLECT OR. CONCEPT IN THIS OP WAS HUGUET
WOULD INFIL CUBA WITH SFNE LEADER EL OYO GUTIERREZ MEN OY O BUT WOULD REPORT

BY WAT TO ACSI ON OB ETC. GUTIERREZ MEN OYO KNEW OF THIS ARRAN GEMENT
AND HAD GIVEN HUGUET PERMISSION MAINTAIN CONTACT WITH ACSI. GUTIERREZ
KNEW SPONSORING ORGANIZATION FOR THIS OP WAS ACSI. IT ACSI THESIS

201-269349


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 48

SECREST
IN 67362 PAGE 2
THAT IN THIS OP THEY WORKING WITH INDIVIDUAL AGENT, I.E. HUGUET BUT
THEY NOT SPONSORING GUTIERREZ OR SFNE.

P. GUTIERREZ INFILTRATED CURA CIRCA 18 DEC 64. OP MOUNTED FROM
BASE IN DOMINICAN REPULIC PUT DETAILS UNKNOWN ACSI. IDENTITIES OF
MEN INFILTRATING CUPA WITH GUTIERREZ NOT KNOWN ACSI.

C. HUGUET RECENTLY OFTAINED WORD FROM GUTIERREZ TO JOIN HIM IN
CUBA. ACSI WANTED DISPATCH HUGUET SOONEST AND WANTED COORDINATED
SUCH INFIL WITH WAVE. IMPLICATION BEING ACSI WAS GOING ASK FOR WAVE
ASSISTANCE IN THIS OP. EXTENT OR NATURE THIS ASSISTANCE NOT IDENTIFIED.

D. ACSI LEARNED CIRCA 2003 HOURS 25 JAN OF HAVANA ANNOUNCEMENT
ABOUT GUTIERREZ APPREHENSION THUS ALL PLANS FOR HUGUET INFIL CANCELLED
FOR TIME BEING. MIAMI ACSI NOT SURE WHAT FUTURE HOLDS FOR HUQUET
BUT WOULD LIKE DISCUSS THIS WITH WAVE AT LATER DATE.

E. MIAMI ACSI MOST CONCERNED GUTIERREZ WOULD IDENTIFY ACSI TO
GÓC AS AGENCY SPONSORING HIS MISSION. IF THIS EXPLOITED IN PROP
FIELD BY GOC THEY WANTED KUPARK KNON ACSI DID NOT SPONSOR GUTIERREZ.

3. AFTER FURNISHING PARA 2 INFO ACSI ASKED IF WAVE WOULD GIVE
   THEM TRACES ON HUGUET AS THEY HAD NOT PREVIOUSLY TRACED HUGUET WITH
   WAVE. WE AGREED FURNISH TRACES WHILE CHIDING ACSI IN LOW KEY THAT THIS
   LATE DATE FOR RUNNING LOCAL TRACES.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 49

SECRET

4. MIAMI ACSI ASKED INFORMALLY WHAT HAVE THOUGHT OF THEIR OPS
   CONCEPT RE HUGUET AND GUTIERREZ. WE POINTED OUT THAT FASED FRAGMENTARY
   INFO AVAILABLE TO US WE. FELT THEY HAD LIAISON AND NOT AGENT RELATIONSHIP
   VITH HUGUET THUS IT HARD ENVISION HUGUET AS CONTROLLED ASSET. ADDITION-
   ALLY IT POINTED AIT EXPERIENCE WITH WIDE VARIETY OF DIFFERENT
   ETHNIC EXILE GROUPS HAD CONVINCED REUTEMAN IT IMPOSSIBLE MAKE ACSI
   CONCEPT RE HUGUET WORK. THIS EXPRESSED AS REUTEMAN OPINION AND
   NOT AS KUSARY DOCTRINE.

5. TRACES RE HUGJET FOLLON IN SEPARATE CALE.

6. ASSUME HUGUET OP COORDINATED WITH KUPARK AT HOS LEVEL. IF NOT,
   PLS ADVISE.

SECRET

CFN


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 50

# SECRET

DEX YES NO
CLASSY TO 26931.
1-REF TO FILE NO
FILE RTD RET TO MANCH 4224
DESTROY
SIG
CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
TOTAL COPIES 24
GROUP I
27 SECRET
REPRODUCTION PROHIBITED
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
FROM
JMWAVE
UNIT
ACTION
WH/SA 8
ADVANCE COPY
ISSUED SLOTTED TUBED
TIME BY
INFO
VR. FILE DDP, WH7, C1, C1/OPS, C1/1C2, F1
30 JAN 65 IN70252
SECRET 2923322
DIR INFO CARA CITE WAVE98
TYPIC
1. ON 28 JAN AMSHADY-1 WAS AT HOME ZENAIDA (MARRERRO) WIFE OS RENE (DECHARD) FORMER CUBAN CONSUL TO US, WHO ALTHOUGH AUTENTICA AND NOT BELONG SNFE IS CONSIDERED PERSONAL FRIEND MOST REVO- LUTIONARIES WHILE AMSHADY-1 THERE AMAURY (FRAGINALS) ARRIVED AND SAID SENT WAVE AREA BY ARMANDO FLEITAS WHO STILL CARA AS NOT YET RECEIVED PASSPORT FOR US. FRAGINALS HAD SEVERAL MISSIONS ACCOMPLISH ACCORDING PART CONVERSATION AMSHADY-1 HEARD. FIRST, FLEITAS CONCERNED THAT INTERVIEW GUTIERREZ WIDOW GIVEN TO BATISTIANO BENJAMIN DE LA VEGA WHO IN TURN GAVE SAME TO ONLY BATIS- TIANO COMMENTATORS. FRAGINALS TO ASSURE THIS NOT PECUR EVEN IF NECESSARY BEAT UP DE LA VEGA. FLEITAS ALSO AUTHORIZED FRAGINAL S BEAT UP ANYONE CALLING GUTIERREZ COMMUNIST AS CHAT LAST STRAW. ACCORDING FRAGINALS, FLEITAS PLANS REORGANIZE SNFE WAVE AREA AS DISPLEASED THEIR HANDLING GUTIERREZ INCIDENT. ALSO FLEITAS MANS GC P&UMEN SOON AS CAN SAY GOODEY TO WIFE AS OWES MORAL DEST OTHER ALLIANCE MEMBERS AND GUTIERREZ.

201-269349
20 Jiw 1965
2. AMS-1 ALSO HEARD FROM SAVE SOU THAT PATENTS
1389
RI COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 51

SECRET

FURWARDED IN 70252
RID/MIS PAGE 2
GUESADA, ONE OF THOSE CAPTURED, ARRESTED. ALSO SEVERAL ATTEMPTS FEB 17 8 39 AM '65
CONTACT PARENTS GUTIERREZ BY PHONE UNSUCCESSFUL HENCE ASSUME THEY
FEB 16
ALSO PRISONERS.

31 FRAGINALS SAID AFTER FLEITAS REANIMATED EXILES CARA

FOLLOWING FIRST WAVE DEPRESSION UPON NEWS CAPTURE, THEY COLLECTED

ABOUT $4000 CARA.

SECRET

CFN

SECRET

![stamp]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 52

# SECRET

INDEX: YES
CLASSIFY TO NO 269349 CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
X-REF TO FILE NO
FILE RID SET TO BRANCH
DESTROY SIG

4A SECRET
PERSON/UNIT NOTIFIED
TOTAL COPIES 44

FROM JM WAVE
ACTION WH/SA 8

INFO VR. FILE, PDP, SR7, CAZ, CAPRER, DO 4, DO/H3, F1, FiFpFq, OGC 2, C1, Cipts, Ci/c2, R WH 7

SECRET 320142Z
DEP INFO SDOM CITE WAVE 7712

TYPIC
REF WAVE 7648 (69406)*

1. AS REPORTED REF, AMLYRIC-1 TRIED CONTACT AURELIO NAZARIO SARGEN AS ONE OF FEW MEMBERS REVOLUTIONARY ALLIANCE SANS ENOUGH HELP REPAIR PROP LINES DAMAGED IN SFNE CONTENTION GUTIERREZ BETRAYED BY INTERNAL CONTACTS. BEFORE MAKING CONTACT HOWEVER AMLYRIC-1 ADVISED PY AMHIM-2 THAT AURELIO WAS AMONG THOSE AT 27 JAN PRESS CONFERENCE ARGUING IN FAVOR DELEGATION TO APPEAL PO STATUS FOR GUTIERREZ THROUGH SOV AMBASSADOR. AMLYRIC-1 THREW IN SPONE AT THIS POINT; SEES NO HOPE BRINGING ORDER OUT OF CURRENT CHAOTIC ACTIONS THIS HEADLESS EXILE GROUP. SFNE OFFICIAL AMAURY FRAGINALS WHO CAME FROM CARA LATE 27 JAN ALSO DISSATISFIED PUBLICITY HANDLING BUT MOSTLY ON SUCH MATTERS AS EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW WITH MRS GUTIERREZ BEING GIVEN TO WELL KNOWN PATISTIANO PENJAMIN DE LA VEGA.

2. 28 JAN DIARIO LAS AMERICAS REPORTS LETTER BEING SENT UN SICGEN ENCLOSING PETITION POW STATUS FOR GUTIERREZ SIGNED BY "NUMEROUS" EXILE ORGANIZATIONS (TO OUR KNOWLEDE NOT INCLUDING WAVE GROUPS).

ACCORDING YMET NEWS BROADCAST CUPAN EXILES MEXI CALLING FOR EXECUTIO:

SECRET SECRET
201-269349
30 Jan 1965
FORM 1-64 1389
RI COPY
RI COPY
RI COPY


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 53

SECRET

SECRET FURRAGE 2
RIDING 70781

ALL COMMUNIST PRISONERS HELD LA IF GUTIERREZ GETS, DEATH SENTENCE.

FEB 11 8 39 All 65

3. AMATEUR ANALYSTS AMONG LOCAL EXILES KNOWINGLY POINT CUT

EXPENSIVE LATE MODEL ARMS CARRIED BY GUTIERREZ AND APPARENT "GREEN LIGHT" FROM U.S. AND DOMREP AUTHORITIES AS EVIDENCE HE SPONSORED BY KUBARK, BUT LEFTIST BROADCASTER MAX LESNICK REFUTED THIS POSSIBILITY ON RADIO REPLICA (VMIE) 28 JAN.

4. MOST TALK OF GUTIERREZ NOW LIMITED TO GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS HAVING DIRECT INTEREST OR INVOLVEMENT. SOME DISINTERESTED PARTIES OPINE HE MAY BE DEAD ALREADY. OTHERS LOSING INTEREST BECAUSE RECENT REPORTS LACK DETAIL. THEREE CAPTAINS WAVE VESSELS EXPRESSED SORROW FOR GUTIERREZ PLIGHT BUT RELIEF THAT HE NO LONGER IN POSITION ENDANGER KUBARK MARITIME OPS.

5. GUTIERREZ ISSUE DIMINISHING IN IMPORTANCE ON LOCAL SCENE. THERE PRESENTLY NO REPORTED REACTIONS ON ARREST FROM CUBA VIA TELEPHONE CALLS TO EXILES THIS AREA, THUS IT DIFFICULT JUDGE WHAT IMPACT THIS ARREST HAS HAD ON OPS CLIMATE CUBA.

6. PLA RESTRICT PROP COVERAGE ON GUTIERREZ ARREST TO STRAIGHT NEWS REPORTING FOR NEXT FEW DAYS, I.E. WILL PULICIZE D.R. DENIAL THEIR INVOLVEMENT IN THIS OP, ETC.

SECRET + 28 JAN CONFUSION STILL REANS AMONG EVILES ON NEARLY ALL ASPECTS ELOY GUTIERREZ MENDyo CASE.

SECRET

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)