14-00000
104-10171-10230

2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

CLASSIFIED MESSAGE

DATE: 9 60

TO: DIRECTOR

FROM: MEXICO CITY

ACTION: WH 5 (AR REYNOLDS] WH DIV NOTIFIED 2050 9 1 60)

INFO: DCI, D/DCI, DDP, COP, ADDP/A, CA 2, CA/PRG, CA/PROP CI, CI/OPS, CI/IC 2, 100 4, S/C 2

ROUTING
![routing information]
JL 10 00292 60

OPERATIONAL IMMEDIATE

IN 2264!

TO: DIR

INFO:

REF: A. DIR 38758 (OUT 94420)

B. MEXI 5852 (IN 22332)**

CITE MEXI 5853

1. LATE NIGHT 8 JULY COS HAD CONFERENCE PARA 7 REF 6.**

2. L[ ]TENSOR STATES DID *NOT* APPROVE EITHER IN GENERAL OR SPECIFIC TEXT

SPEECH EMILIO SANCHEZ PIEDRAS NOR ITEMS TO BE TREATED SPEECH IN ADVANCE.

SANCHEZ SPOKE AS INDIVIDUAL CONGRESSMAN DID NOT SPEAK FOR GOVERNENT, NOR DID HE SPEAK FOR (WHOLE) PARTY (PRI). HE SAID SENATORS AND CONGRESSMEN "AS IN U.S.A." SPEAK FREELY AND ON OWN.

3. L[ ]FENSOR SAYS PORTION SPEECH REGARDING CUBA WAS "WIDELY MIS-QUOTED". HE SAID IN NO PLACE DID SANCHEZ MENTION CASTRO OR CLEAN GOVERNMENT. HE SAID SANCHEZ EXPRESSED FRIENDSHIP AND SYMPATHY FOR "CUSAN PESFLE" AND HE FOINTED OUT THIS HAD BEEN U.S. GOVT FOLICY ALSO. REPORTERS (HE SAID) HAVE INTERPRETED THIS SPEECH TO IE AN CUBAN GOVERNMENT AND CASTRO REGINNE, WHICH L[ ]TENSOR STATES IS NOT MEXICAN POLICY. HE SAID "THE SOONER CASTRO AND TRUJILLO ARE GONE FROM THE CARIBBEAN THE SOONER THIS PORTION OF THE WORLD CAY RETURN TO PEACE AND NORMALCY".

4. L[ ]TENSOR DID NOT RESPOND TO QUESTION OF WHETHER HE WILL MAKE CLARIFYING STATEMENT BUT BOTH (LIERGO) ANDLI ELEGANT SAY HE WILL MAKE NO SUCH STATEMENT.

5. (LI ELEGANT) BELIEVES L[ ]TENSOR WILL BE WILLING IN NEAR FUTURE HAVE MEETING

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.

Copy No.

alw


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

CLASSIFIED. MESSAGE
S-E-C-R-E-T

DATE :
TO :
FROM :
ACTION:
INFO

PAGE 2

ROUTING
1
2
3
4
5
6

IN 22641 MEXI 5853

TO INFO CITE

(PRI LEADERS) AND BRIEF THEM CUBAN SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES MEXICO. (COS COMMENT:
GUSTAVO DIAZ ORDAZ, MINISTER OF INTERIOR, WOULD BE A PRINCIPAL FIGURE AND
SPOKESMAN IN THIS. (BELIEVE CAN GET HIS AID))

6. BOTH(LIERGO) AND (IELECANT) STATE NO PRI SENATOR OR CONGRESSMAN "OF
   PRESTIGE" WILL STAND UP AND TAKE ISSUE WITH SANCHEZ. (ILLEGALIT) PRIVATELY STATED
   HE HAS ONE OR TWO PRI SENATOR FRIENDS WHO ARE OLD AND WITHOUT POLITICAL FUTURES
   WHO COULD LIKELY BE CONVINCED THEY SHOULD CLARIFY ISSUE, BUT THEY NOT "OF
   PRESTIGE". ALSO, SOME PARTIDO ACCION NACIONAL (PAN), CATHOLIC RIGHT WING
   CONGRESSMEN WOULD DO BUT THIS NOT CONSIDERED WORTH EFFORT BY (LICLEGANT)
   (QUESTION OF PAYMENT HAS NOT BEEN MENTIONED)

7. TO DATE HAVE FOUND SANCHEZ HIGHLY RESPECTED NOT PARTICULARLY TO LEFT
   NOR FARTICULARLY CLOSE LAZARO CARDENAS. WILL LOOK FOR "PERSONAL VULNERABILITIES".

8. FYI: AND HILL HAD TALKS WITH FOREIGN MINISTER TELLO AND WITH CORONA
   DEL ROSAL (PRESIDENT OF PRI). SEE HIS EMSTEL WHICH COS HAS NOT SEEN YET.

S. VILL CONTINUE TO REPORT.

END OF MESSAGE

C/S Comment:
* Suggested operations for the field to attempt to carry out in an effort to get the Mexican authorities) to take issue with Sanchez Piedra disclaiming the latter's recent statements.

** Stated that COS1) would attempt to see LINSOR(2)) on 8 July.

S-E-C-R-E-T

REPRODUCTION BY OTHER THAN THE ISSUING OFFICE IS PROHIBITED.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)