124-10332-10047 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/8/2015.
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10332-10047
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 2-1622-178

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 10/19/1962
PAGES: 19
SUBJECTS: SANTIAGO ALVAREZ RODRIGUEZ
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/22/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32313773 Page 1
7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

MM 2-156

Copies Made:
9 - Bureau (2-1622)(RM)
1 - INS, Miami, Florida (RM)
1 - U. S. Customs, Miami, Florida (RM)
1 - U. S. Border Patrol, Miami, Florida (RM)
1 - Louisville (Info)(RM)
1 - Newark (Info)(RM)
1 - New Orleans (Info)(RM)
3 - New York (RM)
(2 - 105-52912)(1 - 105-38120)
3 - Miami
(2 - 2-156) (1 - 105-5003)

* * * * * * * *

MIAMI:

AT FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA

Will attempt to locate and interview ORLANDO PIEDRA for any information concerning this matter, it being noted he has been reported to be vacationing in Florida at the present time.

AT MIAMI, FLORIDA

1. Will maintain close contact with MM 639-S and other sources and informants for any additional pertinent information concerning subject's activities.

- B -

- COVER PAGE -

NW 50953 DocId:32313773 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MM 2-156

2. Will locate and interview BATISTA'S son-in-law, ROBERTO FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, in an effort to obtain additional details concerning allegations as set forth in Bureau letter to Assistant Attorney General J. WALTER YEAGLEY dated July 31, 1962.

- ADMINISTRATIVE -

This report is classified "Confidential" inasmuch as data received from the Department of the Army on July 25, 1962, and furnished to Assistant Attorney General J. WALTER YEAGLEY was so classified.

- INFORMANTS -

Individuals contacted, as mentioned in this report, (who had no knowledge of any training groups in the Florida Keys) are identified as follows:

RENE A. RADOLE (NA)
CIA Covert Representative
Contacted August 7, 1962

PSI (under development) FRANK HERNANDEZ
Contacted August 16, 1962

PSI (under development) MANOLO STINCER
Contacted August 30, 1962

MM 674-C
Contacted September 5, 1962

- C -

- COVER PAGE -


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

MM 2-156

All of the above sources were contacted by SA RALPH L. JENSEN.

Identity
Location

MM T-1 is MM 639-S, contacted by SA ROBERT JAMES DWYER.
134-238 Sub A-630 and 631.

MM T-2 is FELIPE CATASUS PAZOS, former Vice Chief of Cuban Air Force under President BATISTA, contacted by SA LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR. (protect, by request).
Instant report page 3.

MM T-3 is MM 492-S, contacted by SAS JAMES D. HAYES and LEMAN L. STAFFORD, JR.
Instant report page 3.

- COVER PAGE -


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)