# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 6/5/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10107
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-180256-194

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA
FROM: CIA
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:

DATE: 12/14/1973
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: MR, SERRANO, ORLANDO, TELCAL, USA, CUBAN EMBASSY, MEXICO CITY, CUBAN SPANISH
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION : Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/05/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FTB003 4:01AM 12-14-73 JPS
ESC 107
RR ESV
DE ESC #4304 3480730
ZNY SSSSS
R 132224Z DEC 73
FM CIA

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
COMMUNICATIONS SECTION

DEC 14 1973

TELETYPE

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS
KP 7-6-98

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
DATE 8/23/94 BY SPOMACH

SECRET. CITE CIA 491076.

ATTN: INTELLIGENCE DIVISION

SUBJECT: TELEPHONE TAPS ON CALLS INITIATED IN USA TO CUBAN
INTELLIGENCE OFFICER MEXICO CITY, Mexico

1. ON 12 AND 15 NOVEMBER 1973 AN INDIVIDUAL WHO IDENTIFIED HIMSELF AS "ORLANDO S ERRANO" MADE TELEPHONE CALLS FROM THE USA TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY IN MEXICO CITY. HE USED DOUBLE-TALK.
   SPOKE SPANISH WITH CUBAN VICE CONSUL JUAN E N S E N A T CAMPS (AN IDENTIFIED CUIS OFFICER), AND REFERRED TO HIS (THE CALLER'S) RELATIONSHIP WITH MANUEL R O D R I G U E Z SEOANE IN 1964 AND TO “MICKEY” WHOM HE HAD CONTACTED PREVIOUSLY, PRESUMABLY IN MEXICO.

RODRIGUEZ IS A CUIS OFFICER AND “MICKEY” IS THE PSEUDONYM OF ENRIQUE C I C A R D ALABRADA WHO WAS STATIONED IN MEXICO CITY AS AKA MICKEY.

CONSUL FROM 1968 UNTIL TRANSFERED TO HAVANA 1971. ACCORDING TO A DGI DEFECTOR IN 1971, CICARD WAS THEN EITHER HEAD OF THE DGI USA BUREAU OR THE SECTION IN CHARGE OF OPERATIONS AGAINST THE FBI AND

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

PAGE 02 RUEAIIA 4304 SECRET
CIA.

SECRET

2. THERE ARE NO IDENTIFIABLE TRACES ON SERRANO. IN VIEW OF THE CALLER'S CITED CUIS CONNECTIONS, WE BELIEVE HE IS VERY POSSIBLY IDENTICAL WITH EMILIO E CHARTE PEDROSO, SUBJECT OF FBI NEW YORK REPORT DATED OCTOBER 27, 1970. THAT REPORT REFERRED TO ECHARTE'S RECRUITMENT IN CUBA BY RODRIGUEZ AND HIS DISPATCH TO THE USA ON A MISSION TO ASSASSINATE CUBAN EXILE LEADER MANOLOR A Y.
   SAME REPORT ALSO ADVISED THAT ECHARTE CONTACTED DGI OFFICER CICARD IN MEXICO 1968 AND CICARD DIRECTED HIM TO CULTIVATE A CIA AGENT IN USA.

3. THE 12 NOVEMBER CALL WAS MADE FROM AN UNIDENTIFIED LOCATION IN THE USA. THE 15 NOVEMBER CALL WAS MADE AT 1458 HOURS WASHINGTON, D.C. TIME FROM A PHONE BOOTH IN WASHINGTON TO THE CUBAN EMBASSY MEXICO CITY, TELEPHONE NUMBER 5530917. THE 12 AND 15 NOVEMBER CONVERSATIONS ARE SIMILAR IN CONTENT. OUR MEXICO CITY STATION RECEIVED A TAPE RECORDING OF THE 15 NOVEMBER TELEPHONE CONVERSATION FROM THE MEXICAN SERVICE WHICH WE ARE FORWARDING TO FBI HEADQUARTERS FOR REVIEW. AN EXPERIENCED TRANSCRIBER EMPLOYED BY CIA STATES THAT THE CALLER USED DEFINITE CUBAN SPANISH. THE TRANSCRIBER ALSO BELIEVES THE CALLER IS NOT WELL EDUCATED.

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

PAGE 03 RUEAIIA 4304 ECRET

SECRET

4. ON 15 NOVEMBER THE CALLER REFERRED TO HIS PREVIOUS RELATION-
   SHIP WITH RODRIGUEZ AND CICARD, AND SAID THAT THE MEETING HE THE
   CALLER WAS INVOLVED WITH HERE (PRESUMABLY IN THE USA) HAD BEEN
   SUSPENDED UNTIL "THE FIFTEENTH", THAT HE WANTED TO GO AND EXPLAIN
   WHAT IS TAKING PLACE, AND THAT ENSENAT SHOULD RELAY THE INFORMATION
   TO PINEIRO (PRESUMABLY MANUEL PINEIRO/LOSADA, CHIEF OF THE
   CUBAN LIBERATION DIRECTORATE, WHO IS CURRENTLY BELIEVED TO BE IN
   HAVANA). ENSENAT SAID HE WOULD PASS THE MESSAGE TO THE FOREIGN
   MINISTRY. THE CALLER SAID HE WOULD TELEPHONE ENSENAT AGAIN AT THE
   SAME TIME ON THE FIFTEENTH.

5. WE ARE UNABLE TO MAKE MUCH SENSE OUT OF THE CALLS ANY
   POSSIBLE IDENTIFICATION YOUR ORGANIZATION CAN MAKE OF THE CALLER
   AND HIS ACTIVITIES, BASED ONHIS CABLE AND YOUR REVIEW OF THE 15
   NOVEMBER TAPE, WILL BE APPRECIATED.

6. EXEMPT FROM GENERAL DECALSSIFICATION SCHECULE OF E.O.
   11652, EXEMPTION CATEGORY 5B2. AUTOMATICALLY DECLASSIFIED ON DATE
   IMPOSSIBLE TO DETERMINE. CLASSIFIED BY 054559.

BT

#4304

NNNN

JDR JB

NW 50953 DocId:32301772 Page 4

SECRET

3. 


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)