2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/14/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10311-10292
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-27799-513

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: LEG, BR
TO: HQ
TITLE:

DATE: 12/23/1964
`PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: USSS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 07/27/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27
5010-106-03

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

FROM: Director, FBI DATE: 12/23/64

SUBJECT: Legat, Bern (62-70) (RUC) SECRET

RELATIONS WITH SECRET SERVICE
THREATS AGAINST THE PRESIDENT

ReBulet 11/19/64. 62-27799-507

Files of Legat, Bern, have been reviewed for individuals residing in Switzerland and Austria considered to be a possible threat to the President, and no one was found to fit this category.

In addition, discreet inquiry was made of the following sources, all of whom had no knowledge of individuals who might be considered threats:

Consular Section, the Embassy, Bern;
Office of Special Assistant (covert CIA),
the Embassy, Bern;
American Consulate General, Vienna;
Research Branch (covert CIA), the Embassy,
Vienna;
Security Officer, the Embassy, Vienna.

In this regard, however, Bureau attention is called to the case entitled PAUL GEORGE ANDERSON, aka, IS-X (Bufe 100-415051). ANDERSON has been reported to be of interest to the Secret Service (Legat, Paris, letter dated 10/16/64). While he does not reside in territory covered by this office, he is in rather frequent transit en route to Hungary, where he is attempting to obtain a visa for his Hungarian wife to enter the U.S.

3 - Bureau
(1 - Liaison)
2 - Bern
(1 - 105-213)

HDG:mls
(5)

REC-108 62-27799-513

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION, AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS
14 DEC 28 1964

NW 50953 DocId:32311270 Page 2

100-415051-
62-109078-

3-14-97
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLDIKSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)