124-10284-10155 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 6/8/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10284-10155

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-210-2088

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 07/29/1960

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: EPE, BAYO, ALBERTO, POLIT, REVOLUTIONARY ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId:32303643 Page 1

6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy
Paris 8, France

8-1-97
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
Date: July 29, 1960
To: Director, FBI
From: Legat, Paris (109-24)
Subject: CUBAN POLITICAL ACTIVITIES

Re Paris letter 7/21/60.

During a visit to Bern, Switzerland, the captioned matter was discussed with BURTON LIFSCHULTZ, Chief of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Switzerland. He advised that the Cuban Ambassador, SALAZAR-SANCHEZ, had been dismissed by the Cuban Government and his replacement has not yet arrived. LIFSCHULTZ advised that it has been rumored that he will be replaced by one BAYO. He stated that this individual has not as yet been definitely identified and no background information is available regarding him. He stated, however, that he may be identical with the son of "General" ALBERTO BAYO who has previously been reported as a Spaniard who assisted in the CASTRO revolution and who has reportedly been active in revolutionary activities in Spain.

This is furnished for the information of the Bureau. In the event further specific information is received, the Bureau will be advised..

P
3 - Bureau (1 Havana)
1 - Madrid (sent direct)
1 - Paris
NWP:mas
(5)

Copy to Havana
by routing slip for
info action
date 8-10-60
by EX 109

50 AUG 11 1960

NW 50953 DocId:32303643 Page 2

2 copies made
on 10/31/77
for review at FBIHQ by
HSCA per reg. 9/7/77
See bufile 62-117290
DJC: men

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR
RELEASE OF SAINFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT EXCEPT
THE BRACKETS
JM 6-25-97

REC.D
KEC. 9. 109-12-210 9088

9 AUG 1960


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)