# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/1/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10160
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-120916-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 05/01/1963
PAGES: 4
SUBJECTS: MZF, ASSOC, B/F INT, ACA, INFT, INFO, NEG, GAMBLING
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 03/24/1997
OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: INC LHM


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FE
5010-104
UNITED STATES ERNMENT

# Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

HAS NO OBJECT TO
CLASSIFI FROM: SAC, MIAMI (105-7052) (C)
RELEASE OF DATA INATION
IN THIS DOC EXCEPT BRACKETS (105-7055) (C)
GMB I-SUBJECT: LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL, aka
JFK SLD Luis Condom
IS - CUBA
(Miami File 105-7052)

ALVARO MARTIN FERNANDEZ FOX, aka
Alvaro Fernandez
IS - CUBA
(Miami File 105-7055)

SECRET

DATE: MAY 1 1963

REC-35

8-26-94
Classified by SP8 Mondefk
Declassify on: OADR OFK)

#211326
motix Sourees
Classified by Sabon GOL
Declassify on: OADR/14/8/
Classified by 1259
Exempt rom CDS, Category 2
Date of Declassification Indefinite
2/28/78

Enclosed for the Bureau are 11 copies of a letterhead memorandum, captioned as above, suitable for dissemination. Two copies are for the use of the Legat, Mexico, in view of the information gathered concerning activities of Cubans in Mexico.

One letterhead memorandum has been written with the dual caption inasmuch as the information gathered concerning one individual pertained to the other.

The letterhead memorandum is classified "Secret" as it contains CIA information so classified. (u)

On 3/11/63, JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF, CIA representative Miami, Florida, advised the the original source of the information in this case and that furnished by his office was RAFAEL PADRON PRADO, 575 SE 9th Avenue, Hialeah, Florida

The TULIO PREITO mentioned in the enclosed letterhead memorandum is identical with TULIO INOCENCIO PREETO RUIZ, IS - CUBA, Bureau Origin, Miami file 105-5193. PRIETO is not a source of the Miami Office.

Bureau (RM) (Encls. - 11) ENCLOSURE
Legat, Mexico) (RM)
2- Miami

Copy to:
by routing slip for info.
Date 5-22-63 by

67 MAY 31 1963
Copy to: CIA/State/
ONI/QSI/ACSÍ

REC-35

SER REVERSE SIDE FOR CLASIFICATION
ACTION
ABEO REC 120916

8 MAY 3 1963
Verry 5/23
SECRET

PROPRIATE AGENCIES AND FIELD OFFICES ADVISED BY ROUTING SLIP(S) OF
DATE

INT. SEC
ALL FORMATION CONTA
KABLY IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT WHERE SHOWIN OTHERWISE

UNREC COPY AND COPY OF ENCL FILED IN/15

NW 45782 DocId:32293884 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MM 105-7052
MM 105-7055

LUIS ALBERTO CONDOM CAJIGAL, who furnished information set forth in the letterhead memorandum, also advised that he worked with CIA in Havana from the beginning of 1960 to November, 1960, through EMILIO FERNANDEZ, a U.S. citizen. [^5]

CONDOM also advised that ALVARO FERNANDEZ FOX, who was also interviewed in this matter, is the nephew of MARTIN FOX, former owner of the Tropicana Nightclub in Havana, Cuba. CONDOM believes that since coming to Miami from Mexico City, ALVARO FERNANDEZ has become involved in the bolita racket inasmuch as his uncle is supposed to be a bolita racketeer in Miami. It is noted that when interviewed, ALVARO FERNANDEZ stated that he is unemployed and lives from money furnished him by his uncle, MARTIN FOX, and another uncle, PEDRO FOX, also residing in Miami at 302 Southwest Beacom Boulevard.

ALVARO FERNANDEZ, in addition to the information set forth in the enclosed letterhead memorandum, advised that while he was in Mexico City he worked as an informant for STEVE MINAS, U.S. Customs representative, U.S. Embassy, telephone 46-94-00, Extension 373, or home phone 48-02-50. He also advised that he was to contact Customs Agent ED FICKIE in Miami at FR 7-3571, which he did; however, FERNANDEZ has not been used by FICKIE in the Miami area. FERNANDEZ advised he helped on narcotics matters.

- INFORMANTS -

The representative of MM T-1, mentioned in the letterhead memorandum, is JUSTIN F. GLEICHAUF, CIA, Miami, Florida. MM T-1 is CIA, Washington, D.C. [^4]

The following sources, all of whom have some knowledge of Cuban activities in the Miami, Florida, area were contacted with negative results:


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)