JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/27/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90146-10108
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-93072-128 THRU 131

Released under the John F. Kennedy
Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 (44 USC 2107 Note). Case#:NW
88296 Date: 2025

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: NY
TO : HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 06/28/1965
'PAGES: 21
SUBJECTS: RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Top Secret
RESTRICTIONS: Not Assassination Related
CURRENT STATUS: Withhold
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 12/09/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE
COMMENTS: INC 4 MEMO, LHM

v9.1
NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 1

5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

4-22 (Rev. 1-22-60)
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Records Branch

__________________________, 19_______

Name Searching Unit - Room 6527
Service Unit - Room 6524
Forward to File Review
Attention Musca
Return to Mullins 303RB
Supervisor Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:
Regular Request (Analytical Search)
All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)
Subversive References Only
Nonsubversive References Only
Main References Only

Type of Search Requested:
Restricted to Locality of
Exact Name Only (On the Nose)
Buildup Variations

Subject Diana Bornstein
Birthdate & Place__________________________
Address__________________________

Localities__________________________
R#_________Date 11-26 Searcher initials mb
Prod.__________________________

| FILE NUMBER                                    | SERIAL |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| NRMF                                           |        |
| Maik 105-93072-131                             |        |
| Diana Hermans BW                               |        |
| ST                                             |        |
| *105-1-317-258                                 |        |
| Hermans, Diana                                 |        |
| 5/27/59                                        |        |
| Not Located 62-26225-35-A Ny. World Tele. luen |        |
| Bornstein Robert Mas                           |        |
| ST                                             |        |
|                                                |        |
|                                                |        |
|                                                |        |
|                                                |        |
|                                                |        |
|                                                |        |
|                                                |        |

NW 88296 DocId:32339276 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

4-22 (Rév: 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation
Records Bran


Name Searching Unit - Room 6527
Service Unit - Room 6524
Forward to File Review
Attention Nasca
Return to Mullins 303 L.B.
Supervisor Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:
Regular Request (Analytical Search)
All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)
Subversive References Only
Nonsubversive References Only
Main References Only

Type of Search Requested:
Restricted to Locality of
Exact Name Only (On the Nose)
Buildup Variations

Subject Robert Bornstein
Birthdate & Place
Address

Localities

R# Date 11-26 Searcher initials mb

Prod.

FILE NUMBER SERIAL

NRMt
NO 28-714-4
LT 105-93022-131

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

4-22 (Rev. 1-22-60)

Federal Bureau of Investigation

Records Branch

__________ , 19____

☐ Name Searching Unit - Room 6527

☐ Service Unit - Room 6524

☐ Forward to File Review

☑ Attention _Nasca_

☑ Return to _Mullens 303RB_

Supervisor Room Ext.

Type of References Requested:

☐ Regular Request (Analytical Search)

☐ All References (Subversive & Nonsubversive)

☐ Subversive References Only

☐ Nonsubversive References Only

☑ Main References Only

Type of Search Requested:

☐ Restricted to Locality of

☐ Exact Name Only (On the Nose)

☐ Buildup ☐ Variations

Subject _Daniel Watts_

Birthdate & Place

Address

Localities

R# Date _1/-26_ Searcher Initials _mb_

Prod. FILE NUMBER SERIAL

_MF_ /_105-96316_

NW 88296 DocId:32339276 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

SAC, New York (105-42387)

Director, FBI (105-93072)-130

RICHARD THOMAS, GIBSON
IS - CUBA

1 - Mr. Mullins

11-15-65

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Reurlet 10-29-65.

Prior to instituting action concerning subject's removal from Security Index, Bureau desires a report or memorandum be prepared for dissemination purposes to include any unreported subversive activities on subject's part. Submit promptly and you will be advised further concerning subject's Security Index status.

RAM:bjs (4)

NOTE:

Subject was head of Fair Play for Cuba Committee at one time and is now living in London where he is connected with some communist publications. In 1962 subject offered to serve as informant for Bureau solely for financial reasons but we declined and told CIA of his offer. In September, 1965, CIA advised it is now directing Gibson's activities. Prior to removing him from Index, it is felt a current report or memorandum should be submitted to interested agencies.

> [Figure: MAILED NOV 12 1965 COMM-FBI stamp]

> [Figure: A list of names: Tolson, Belmont, Mohr, De Loach, Casper, Callahan, Conrad, Felt, Gale, Rosen, Sullivan, Tave, Trotter, Tele. Room, Holmes, Gandy]

> [Figure: Signatures and stamps showing classification and declassification information.]

SECRET

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 5


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

# UNITED STATES G ERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

FROM: SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387)

SUBJECT: RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON IS - CUBA

DATE: 10/29/65

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

SECRET

ReBulet, 10/22/65.

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON is a SI subject of the NYO. ReBulet indicates that CIA has advised in confidence that it is operating GIBSON and has assigned the code name SUGAR to GIBSON.[^5]

Although GIBSON's previous activities would warrant retention on the SI, it is felt that inasmuch as GIBSON has been debriefed by CIA and is presently being operated by CIA, GIBSON no longer warrants inclusion on the SI, and accordingly it is being recommended that the name of RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON be deleted from the SI.[^5]

REC-76

EX-101

8 NOV 1 1965

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 88296 DocId:32339276 Page 6

[^5]: Image of a circled 5.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

#

1 - F tive Supervisor
1 - Mr. Mullins

SAC, New York (105-42387)

Director, FBI (105-93072)

RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
IS - CUBA

10-22-65

PERSONAL ATTENTION
ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
TOP SECRET HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE

According to Bureau Source 6, on 9-21-65 Richard Gibson in London contacted Robert Williams in Cuba and indicated he had received an unidentified message from Williams. Gibson assured Williams of his personal loyalty and solidarity in "the struggle." Gibson also said he was partially responsible for Williams' situation and was ready to make any effort which would help

As you are aware, Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has advised in confidence that it is operating Gibson and the message would indicate that CIA is attempting to have Gibson re-establish contact with Williams. Note that CIA has assigned the code name SUGAR to Gibson and data originating with him will be attributed to that code name.

CIA's operational interest in Gibson must be maintained in strictest confidence. Bureau Source 6 data is for lead purposes only and must not be included in communications prepared for dissemination.

1 - London (100-2611)
1 - Foreign Liaison Unit
1 - 100-387728 (Robert Williams)
RAM:bjs (8) Portions of Para 2 and

NOTE:
Williams is the Negro racist who fled to Cuba to avoid a kidnapping trial and is now a Bureau fugitive. Gibson was formerly head of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee but has claimed to be repentant. We were in touch with him in 1962 at which time he offered to serve as informant purely for financial reasons without showing any allegiance whatsoever to the U.S We advised CIA of his offer to cooperate and in May, 1965 CIA did make contact with Gibson in London where he now resides

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-93072)

FROM: SAC, NEW YORK (105-42387) (C)

SUBJECT: RICHARD THOMAS GIBSON
IS - CUBA

ReLegat, Londonlet, 4/26/65.

Enclosed herewith for the Bureau are 10 copies of a LHM dated and captioned as above. It is requested that one of the copies be furnished by the Bureau to Legat, London as requested in re Legat, London letter.

NY T-1 referred to in the memorandum is CIA as contained in relet, 4/26/65.

NY T-2 is NY 4964-S*.

NY T-3 is NY 3164-S who is used to characterize RICHARD GIBSON.

Mrs. JAY SAPIENZA, Superintendent at 45 Carmine Street, NY, NY, was contacted by SA JOHN EDWARD HEGARTY on 6/3/65.

The records of BSS and BCI, NYCPD, were reviewed by SA AUGUST J. MICELIM on 5/31/65.

The records of Credit Bureau of Greater NY were reviewed by IC M. O'BRIEN on 5/19/65.

Bureau (Encls. 10) (RM) REC-62/105-93072-128

1 - New York

JEH:ctd

50 JUL 22 1965

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 9

NY 105-42387

SECRET

By letter dated 4/30/65, Legat, Mexico, advised that the Mexico City Station of CIA, by memorandum 2/18/65, captioned "American Communists' Contacts in Mexico City" which was classified "Secret" with instructions that the information not be disseminated outside the Bureau, furnished information indicating that a leading member of the National Liberation Movement, a pro-Cuba, anti-US Communist front, stated that LEO HUBERMAN and FRANCES KELLY, both of whom are editors of "Monthly Review" were in Mexico. According to the memorandum, HUBERMAN and KELLY were interested in discussing the possibility of publishing English translations of the writings of DAVID ALFARO SIQUEIROS, a well known Mexican artist and a member of the Central Committee of the Mexican CP. The memorandum also indicated that KELLY arrived in Mexico on 2/14/65, and both she and HUBERMAN were in contact with American Communists in Mexico.

The enclosed LHM is being classified "Secret" as it contains information furnished by CIA which was classified "Secret".

-2-

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 10

# In Reply, Please Refer to File No.

# UTED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

# FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

New York, New York
June 28,1965

Bureau 105-93072
New York 105-42387

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Richard Thomas Gibson
Internal Security - Cuba

On April 20, 1965, NY T-1, another Government agency which conducts intelligence investigations, furnished information indicating that on April 2, 1965, an employee of the Cuban Embassy, London, England, had furnished Richard Gibson the telephone number of a girl who was going to stay in the United Kingdom and who wanted to see Gibson. NY T-1 noted that the girl is evidently Frances Kelley of the "Monthly Review" of New York.

NY T-1 advised that Kelley had a letter of introduction to the above-mentioned employee of the Cuban Embassy, London, England, from Leo Huberman with whom she had worked in New York(S) Social Security # 043.51-2909

A characterization of "Monthly Review" is contained in the appendix hereto.

On March 1, 1965, NY T-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past, furnished information indicating that Frances Kelly, who is originally from

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

105-93072-128

ENCLOSURE

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 10


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 11

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

England and who recently returned to England, was employed by the publication "Monthly Review" in New York for several years. NY T-2 advised that while residing in New York, she resided at 45 Carmine Street, Apartment 25, New York, New York. NY T-2 advised that Frances Kelly is the sister of Pat Kelly, 19 Gunter Grove, London, Southwest 10, England. NY T-2 advised that her Social Security number is 043-51-2909.

NY T-2 further advised that in June, 1964, Frances Kelly directed correspondence on behalf of "Monthly Review" to the Ghana Mission to the United Nations indicating that she had done some research work regarding a cumulative index for the party book shop in Accra, which had been requested by the Ghana Mission to the United Nations.

The March, 1964 issue of "Monthly Review" on page 623, contains a book review by Frances Kelly in which she is identified as an assistant to the editors of "Monthly Review".

On June 3, 1965, Mrs. Jay Sapienza, Superintendent, 45 Carmine Street, New York, New York, advised that Frances Kelly resided at 45 Carmine Street, for approximately two years until January, 1965, at which time she indicated that she was going to make a trip to Mexico and then return to England. Mrs. Sapienza stated that she believed that Frances Kelly originally came to the United States from England as she had an English accent. Mrs. Sapienza stated that Kelly is in her early 30's and was a journalist who worked for a magazine in New York, New York. Mrs. Sapienza stated that during her residence at 45 Carmine Street, Frances Kelly was an excellent tenant.

SECRET

2

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 11


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 12

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

The records of the Bureau of Special Services and the Bureau of Criminal Identification, New York City Police Department, were searched on May 31, 1965, and no record identifiable with Frances Kelly could be located.

The files of the Credit Bureau of Greater New York were reviewed on May 19, 1965, and no record identifiable with Frances Kelly could be located.

Concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, NY T-3, who has furnished reliable information in the past, has advised that Gibson was the former Acting Executive Secretary of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. In September, 1962, Gibson left the United States and went to Algeria where he remained until April, 1963. The March 19, 1963 issue of "Monthly Review" identifies Gibson as the English Language Editor of "Revolution Africaine", a new weekly created by the Political Bureau of the Algerian Government.

A characterization of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee is contained in the appendix hereto.

SECRET

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 13

Richard Thomas Gibson

# SECRET

## APPENDIX

1. FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times" newspaper contained a full-page advertisement captioned "What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertisement announced the formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth about revolutionary Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11, 1961, reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961, Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and TABER obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was then formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any other organization. This source stated that LEE believed that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States and should support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution without interference from other nations. LEE did not advocate supporting the Cuban revolution per se.

# SECRET

NW 88296 DocId:32339276 Page 13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 14

Richard Thouns Gibson

SECRET

2. 
APPENDIX

FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The November 23, 1963, edition of "The New York Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of Connecticut had called FFCC "the chief public relations instrument of the CASTRO network in the United States." It is to be noted that Senator DODD was a member of the Senate internal Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on the FFCC.

The December 27, 1963, edition of "The New York World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-CASTRO FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that its prime activity during its lifetime had been sponsor-ship of pro-CASTRO street rallies and mass picket lines, and the direction of an active propaganda mili highlighting illegal travel-to-Cuba campaigns. Its comparatively brief span of life was attributed to mounting anti-CASTRO American public opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which dis-closed FFCC financing by CASTRO's United Nations Delegation, and ultimately, the bad publicity which the FFCC received from disclosure of activities on its behalf by suspected presidential assassin, LEE H. OSWALD.

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned second source advised that V. T. LEE had recently remarked that the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to organize another similar organization.

On April 13, 1964, a third source advised that there had not been any FPCC activity in many months and that the FPCC had been dissolved.

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 15

Richard Thomas Gibson

# SECRET

## MONTHLY REVIEW

A source advised on March 24, 1953, that Monthly Review, Inc., was incorporated in the State of New York on October 19, 1951, and the corporation papers reflected it succeeded the individual business of LEO HUBERMAN at 66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, which operated since 1949 under the title, Monthly Review Press.

The publication is "An Independent Socialist Magazine" with editorial and business offices at 333 Sixth Avenue, New York 14, New York, and mailing address at 66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, according to the March, 1961, 'issue of "Monthly Review." Its editors are listed as LEO HUBERMAN and PAUL M. SWEEZY.

LOUIS F. BUDENZ, former editor of the "Daily Worker," an East Coast Communist newspaper which suspended publication on January 13, 1958, advised on June 23, 1950, that LEO HUBERMAN was a member of the CP in 1945.

Another source advised on November 2, 1954, that PAUL M. SWEEZY was known as a Marxist, but not as a Communist Party (CP) member. The same source stated that the CP hard core had been critical of SWEEZY because of his independent application of Marxist theory. According to the source, SWEEZY was used to advantage in many CP front activities in the 1930's.

The CP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

# SECRET

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 15


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 16

# UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION

![FBI Seal]

In Reply, Please Refer to File No.

Bureau
105-93072
New York 105-42387

New York, New York
June 28,1965

SECRET

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Richard Thomas Gibson
Internal Security - Cuba

On April 20, 1965, NY T-1, another Government agency which conducts intelligence investigations, furnished information indicating that on April 2, 1965, an employee of the Cuban Embassy, London, England, had furnished Richard Gibson the telephone number of a girl who was going to stay in the United Kingdom and who wanted to see Gibson. NY T-1 noted that the girl is evidently Frances Kelley of the "Monthly Review" of New York. NY T-l advised that Kelley had a letter of introduction to the above-mentioned employee of the Cuban Embassy, London, England, from Leo Huberman with whom she had worked in New York.

A characterization of "Monthly Review" is contained in the appendix hereto.

On March 1, 1965, NY T-2, who has furnished reliable information in the past, furnished information indicating that Frances Kelly, who is originally from

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

This document contains neither recommendations nor conclusions of the FBI. It is the property of the FBI and is loaned to your agency; it and its contents are not to be distributed outside your agency.

12/30/94 Classified by Sp8MAC/GAT (JFK)
Declassify on: OADR

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 16


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 17

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

England and who recently returned to England, was employed by the publication "Monthly Review" in New York for several years. NY T-2 advised that while residing in New York, she resided at 45 Carmine Street, Apartment 25, New York, New York. NY T-2 advised that Frances Kelly is the sister of Pat Kelly, 19 Gunter Grove, London, Southwest 10, England. NY T-2 advised that her Social Security number is 043-51-2909.

NY T-2 further advised that in June, 1964, Frances Kelly directed correspondence on behalf of "Monthly Review" to the Ghana Mission to the United Nations indicating that she had done some research work regarding a cumulative index for the party book shop in Accra, which had been requested by the Ghana Mission to the United Nations.

The March, 1964 issue of "Monthly Review" on page 623, contains a book review by Frances Kelly in which she is identified as an assistant to the editors of "Monthly Review".

On June 3, 1965, Mrs. Jay Sapienza, Superintendent, 45 Carmine Street, New York, New York, advised that Frances Kelly resided at 45 Carmine Street, for approximately two years until January, 1965, at which time she indicated that she was going to make a trip to Mexico and then return to England. Mrs. Sapienza stated that she believed that Frances Kelly originally came to the United States from England as she had an English accent. Mrs. Sapienza stated that Kelly is in her early 30's and was a journalist who worked for a magazine in New York, New York. Mrs. Sapienza stated that during her residence at 45 Carmine Street, Frances Kelly was an excellent tenant.

SECRET

2

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 17


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 18

SECRET

Richard Thomas Gibson

The records of the Bureau of Special Services and the Bureau of Criminal Identification, New York City Police Department, were searched on May 31, 1965, and no record identifiable with Frances Kelly could be located.

The files of the Credit Bureau of Greater New York were reviewed on May 19, 1965, and no record identifiable with Frances Kelly could be located.

Concerning Richard Thomas Gibson, NY T-3, who has furnished reliable information in the past, has advised that Gibson was the former Acting Executive Secretary of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee. In September, 1962, Gibson left the United States and went to Algeria where he remained until April, 1963. The March 19, 1963 issue of "Monthly Review" identifies Gibson as the English Language Editor of "Revolution Africaine", a new weekly created by the Political Bureau of the Algerian Government.

A characterization of the Fair Play for Cuba Committee is contained in the appendix hereto.

SECRET

3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 19

Richard Thomas Gibson

# SECRET

## APPENDIX

1. 
## FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The April 6, 1960, edition of "The New York Times" newspaper contained a full-page advertisement captioned "What Is Really Happening In Cuba," placed by the Fair Play for Cuba Committee (FPCC). This advertisement announced the formation of the FPCC in New York City and declared the FPCC intended to promulgate "the truth about revolutionary Cuba" to neutralize the distorted American press.

"The New York Times" edition of January 11, 1961, reported that at a hearing conducted before the United States Senate Internal Security Subcommittee on January 10, 1961, Dr. CHARLES A. SANTOS-BUCH identified himself and ROBERT TABER as organizers of the FPCC. He also testified he and TABER obtained funds from the Cuban Government which were applied toward the cost of the aforementioned advertisement.

On May 16, 1963, a source advised that during the first two years of the FPCC's existence there was a struggle between Communist Party (CP) and Socialist Workers Party (SWP) elements to exert their power within the FPCC and thereby influence FPCC policy. This source added that during the past year there had been a successful effort by FPCC leadership to minimize the role of these and other organizations in the FPCC so that their influence as of May, 1963, was negligible.

The SWP has been designated pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

On May 20, 1963, a second source advised that VINCENT "TED" LEE, FPCC National Office Director, was then formulating FPCC policy and had indicated that he had no intention of permitting FPCC policy to be determined by any other organization. This source stated that LEE believed that the FPCC should advocate resumption of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States and should support the right of Cubans to manage their revolution without interference from other nations. LEE did not advocate supporting the Cuban revolution per se.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 20

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

APPENDIX

2. 
FAIR PLAY FOR CUBA COMMITTEE

The November 23, 1963, edition of "The New York Times" reported that Senator THOMAS J. DODD of Connecticut had called FPCC "the chief public relations instrument of the CASTRO network in the United States." It is to be noted that Senator DODD was a member of the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee which twice conducted hearings on the FFCC.

The December 27, 1963, edition of "The New York World Telegram and Sun" newspaper stated that the pro-CASTRO FPCC was seeking to go out of business and that its prime activity during its lifetime had been sponsorship of pro-CASTRO street rallies and mass picket lines, and the direction of an active propaganda mili highlighting illegal travel-to-Cuba campaigns. Its comparatively brief span of life was attributed to mounting anti-CASTRO American public opinion, the 1962 Congressional hearings which disclosed FFCC financing by CASTRO's United Nations Delegation, and ultimately, the bad publicity which the FPCC received from disclosure of activities on its behalf by suspected presidential assassin, LEE H. OSWALD.

On February 6, 1964, the previously mentioned second source advised that V. T. LEE had recently remarked that the FPCC was dead and that there were no plans to organize another similar organization.

On April 13, 1964, a third source advised that there had not been any FPCC activity in many months and that the FPCC had been dissolved.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 21

Richard Thomas Gibson

SECRET

MONTHLY REVIEW

A source advised on March 24, 1953, that Monthly Review, Inc., was incorporated in the State of New York on October 19, 1951, and the corporation papers reflected it succeeded the individual business of LEO HUBERMAN at 66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, which operated since 1949 under the title, Monthly Review Press.

The publication is "An Independent Socialist Magazine" with editorial and business offices at 333 Sixth Avenue, New York 14, New York, and mailing address at 66 Barrow Street, New York, New York, according to the March, 1961, issue of "Monthly Review." Its editors are listed as LEO HUBERMAN and PAUL M. SWEEZY.

LOUIS F. BUDENZ, former editor of the "Daily Worker," an East Coast Communist newspaper which suspended publication on January 13, 1958, advised on June 23, 1950, that LEO HUBERMAN was a member of the CP in 1945.

Another source advised on November 2, 1954, that PAUL M. SWEEZY was known as a Marxist, but not as a Communist Party (CP) member. The same source stated that the CP hard core had been critical of SWEEZY because of his independent application of Marxist theory. According to the source, SWEEZY was used to advantage in many CP front activities in the 1930's.

The CP has been designated by the Attorney General of the United States pursuant to Executive Order 10450.

6

SECRET

NW 88296 Docld:32339276 Page 21


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 22

# SECRET

1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Krupinsky
1 - Mr. Anderson

(NI) 105-140170

Date: July 23, 1965

To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: UNKNOWN SUBJECTS;
Seventeen American Negroes
Training in Nanking, China
INTERNAL SECURITY - CHINA

Information has been received from a confidential source abroad that according to a South African who was trained in guerrilla warfare at the Nanking Military School in China in 1963, there were seventeen American negroes also training at this school. The source further stated that this was not the first group of American negroes to receive such training there.

No additional information has been developed corroborating the above allegation. However, a review of our files indicates that a source of your Agency, who utilizes the cryptonym "Sugar," evidently has a wide acquaintanceship in African nationalist movements and therefore may be in a position to furnish information concerning this matter. It is therefore requested that "Sugar" be contacted for any information he may be able to furnish in this regard.

1 - 105-93072 (Richard Thomas Gibson)
LLA:amf:lcr (7)

NOTE: Original information in this matter was furnished by MI-6.
It is possible the negroes referred to are from South or Central America, if, in fact, they are Americans. Logical investigation to date has failed to develop any additional corroborating data. Sugar referred to above is Richard Thomas Gibson, formerly involved with the Fair Play for Cuba Committee, and well-known to the Bureau. He is presently on the Security Index. CIA has recently initiated contact with him in Europe and plans to operate him as a source. His initial debriefing by CIA indicates he should be contacted concerning captioned matter. This letter classified "Secret" since it repeats data from MI-6 memorandum so classified.

SECRET

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)