# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System
## Identification Form
Date: 5/21/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10225-10195

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-114543-1ST NR 224

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 01/19/1965

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: MR, CUBAN INVASION, COST, MILITARY MOBILIZATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

SECRET

(When Filled In)

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

Intelligence Information Cable

COUNTRY CUBA

TDCSDB-315/00171-65

DATE OF JANUARY 1964 - EARLY JANUARY 1965

ROUTINE

DISTR: 19 JANUARY 1965

INFO.

SUBJECT

COST OF MOBILIZATION OF CUBAN ARMED FORCES
AND EFFORT TO ECONOMIZE

PLACE & UNITED STATES, MIAMI (18 JANUARY 1965)

REF D-AAP-06300

IN 62296

SOURCE AND APPRAISAL: A HIGHLY PLACED CUBAN OFFICIAL WHO HAS PROVIDED DOCUMENTARY

FIELD REPORT NO. UFG-6535

INFORMATION WHICH HAS BEEN CONSIDERED RELIABLE SINCE FEBRUARY 1964.

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED

10-22445308-MAC/15RE

(SLD/NSR 8-2-97 JFK)

105-114543(JURE)

1. DURING THE YEAR 1964, THE ESTIMATED COST OF MOBILIZATION PER
   MAN PER DAY TO THE CUBAN GOVERNMENT WAS $5.01 PESOS. THE 32-DAY
   MOBILIZATION OF 51,000 MEN IN THE SPRING OF 1964 REPORTEDLY COST
   THE MINISTRY OF THE ARMED FORCES A MINIMUM OF $8,176,320 PESOS.

(FIELD COMMENT: THIS MOBILIZATION TOOK PLACE BEFORE AND AFTER 20
MAY WHEN AN INVASION ATTEMPT BY EXILE FORCES LED BY MANUEL RAY RIVERO
WAS ANTICIPATED BY THE CASTRO GOVERNMENT.)

105-114543

2. DURING LATE DECEMBER 1964 AND EARLY JANUARY 1965, A MOBILIZATION OF 17,000 MEN FOR NINE DAYS RESULTED IN A MINIMUM COST OF -----

NOT RECORDED DAN 26 1965 ISSIZA-

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage
Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

SECRET

NO FOREIGN DISSEM/CONTROLLED DISSEM

STATE/INR DIA ARMY/ACSI NAVY AIR JCS SECDEF NSA NIC XANDE USIA OCI ONE OCR ORR OO FBI

CIA/NMCC NPIC TREASURY AD/CI I&NS

58 JAN 29 1965
vbb

GROUP 1
Excluded fram automatic downgrading and declassification

NW 50953 DocId:32299415 Page 2

ORIGINAL FILED IN

1137-210


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)