# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 5/7/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10210-10096

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 92-3171-2493

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 11/05/1974

'PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: SGI, INS, DEPORTATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Confidential

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/02/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# CONFIDENTIAL

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
FPMR (41 CFR) 101-11.6

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI (92-3171)

FROM : LEGAT, MEXICO CITY (92-13)

SUBJECT: SAMUEL M. GIANCANA, aka "GIANCANA"

Reference Mexico City airtel 11/4/74.

The contents of this letter are relevant to referenced airtel setting out background concerning the possible reasons for subject's deportation. However, this is reported separately because classified confidential and not to be reported for dissemination.

[CIA, Mexico City] was requested to furnish any information they might have concerning subject's presence in Mexico and deportation. On 10/1/74 Mr. ROD MARSHALL advised that he had furnished some information which he believed originated with the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to FERNANDO GUTIERREZ BARRIOS, the Subsecretary of Government (Gobernacion), the agency which deported subject. He believed this was done some weeks before subject was detained and deported. He did not recall exact circumstances but thought perhaps Mr. HARRINGTON, who was coordinating with DEA at the time, might have asked him to do this. MARSHALL advised that after subject was detained, GUTIERREZ BARRIOS called them to notify them of the detention and that subject was going to be deported.

In subsequent contact, GUTIERREZ BARRIOS said that this action was taken because subject was illegally in Mexico and that the action was not based on any activities of a criminal nature which might be considered in violation of Mexican law. At one point GUTIERREZ BARRIOS explained it by saying simply that the subject's papers were not in order.

On 10/2/74 Mr. MARSHALL delivered a blind memorandum classified confidential dated 10/2/74 captioned "Information on Sam Giancana" as follows:

5-Bureau
(1-Foreign Liaison Unit)
(2-Chicago) (92-349)
-Mexico City

CONFIDENTIAL

Buy US Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan

NW 50953 DocId:32292820 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

CONFIDENTIAL

MEX 92-13

"On 23 May 1974 we asked a high-level source within the Mexican Secretariat of Gobernacion for information that they might have on Sam GIANCANA.
The Department of Immigration is under the Secretariat of Gobernacion, so it was believed that they might have some information on GIANCANA. We never received a reply to this request. In July 1974, however, our contact within Gobernacion told us that the Government of Mexico (GOM) was expelling GIANCANA from the country, to the United States, within 24 hours

"In meetings held with our contact on 23 August, 28 September, and 1 October 1974, we brought up the subject of GIANCANA. The contract said that the local immigration authorities had been seeking GIANCANA because he was in the country illegally. They finally located him in July, arrested him on the spot, and deported him the following day. The expulsion was not carried out on the basis of any specific information supplied by the US Embassy, nor .were there any indications that he was engaged in any criminal activity here. Rather it was an internal GOM decision to expel an unwanted alien who was living illegally in Mexico.

It is noted that this blind memorandum does not appear to document the previous information from Mr. MARSHALL and is somewhat contradictory

In further explanation 10/2/74 (Mr. MARSHALL said he now believes (Mr. HARRINGTON had asked him merely to determine if Gobernacion had any information on the subject since MARSHALL believed subject may have been designated by the embassy Narcotics Committee as a so-called "joint target."
He stated he did not believe that he had indicated in any manner to GUTIERREZ BARRIOS that the embassy thought subject was involved in narcotics activities in Mexico. He mentioned the possibility that because of emphasis being placed on narcotics by both governments, high Mexican officials might have reached the decision that subject should be expelled because of his widely publicized connections with the "MAFIA."

2

CONFIDENTIAL


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)