# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/10/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10320-10087

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-409763-79

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BR

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 05/13/1964

PAGES: 1

SUBJECTS: MARK LANE

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: Consulted; 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 11/04/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

5-126 (9-19-62)
OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10

UNITED STATES GOVER

# Memorandum

TO : Director, FBI (100-409763) DATE: 5/13/64

FROM : Legat, Bern (105-284) (RUC)
CIA HAS NO OSSECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,

SUBJECT: MARK LANE RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
SM - C CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/GCL
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
Re Bulet 4/20/64. K 5-6-98 DECLASSIFY ON: 25X (1)(6)
SLD/KSR 5-27-48 (JFK) 4/21/97
(JFK)

Security information furnished by referenced communication was disseminated to the indicated sources of this office on 5/4/64 :

☑ Abteibung II - Gruppe Staatspolizei, Bundesministerium für Inneres (Austrian Security Police), Vienna, Austria.[^5]

☐ Security Branch, American Embassy, Vienna, Austria.

☐ U. S. Consulate General, Vienna, Austria.

☐ Schweizerisches Bundespolizei (Swiss Federal Police),[^5] Bern, Switzerland.

☑ Other Research Branch (covert CIA)[^6] American Embassy, Vienna.

Data furnished to the U. S. sources was classified Confidential
Material furnished to the foreign sources will be handled as Confidential
under existing security agreements.

Appropriate notations are maintained in the files of the indicated sources to insure that this office will be notified in the event subject comes to their attention.

3 Bureau
(1 - Liaison)
1 - Bern

HDG:mls
(4)

![SECRET]

![SUBYSTROL Баддедек]

68 MAY 221964
58

NW 50953 DocId:32311770 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)