# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10191

RECORD SERIES: NY

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-35253-987

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: NY

TO: HQ

TITLE:

DATE: 03/29/1962

'PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: ANTI CASTRO ACTIVITIES IS-CUBA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 10/14/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# DIRECTOR, FBI (109-584)

SAC, NEW YORK (105-35253)

SECRET

MAR 29 1962

ANTI-FIDEL CASTRO ACTIVITIES
IS - CUBA

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKET
K 9-21-98

Re NYlet to Director, dated 3/14/62.

MICHAEL J. P. MALONE, Vice-President, Czarnikow- Rionda Company, 106 Wall Street, NYC, who is also employed by the King Ranch of Kingsville, Texas, advised on 3/20/62, that he had accompanied ROBERT KLEBERG of the King Ranch to Washington, DC, on 3/15/62, for KLEBERG'S meeting with Vice-President LYNDON B. JOHNSON at 4:00 p.m. on that date.

MALONE advised that he did not accompany KLEBERG to the meeting with Vice-President JOHNSON, but KLEBERG informed him that they discussed the Cuban problem and what course of action the US was going to follow in this matter. KLEBERG, according to MALONE, was advised by Vice-President JOHNSON, that President JOHN F. KENNEDY has no contemplated plans at the present time for any large scale movement against Cuba, and there are no plans for the use of US troops in Cuba.

MALONE advised that KLEBERG told him that Vice- President JOHNSON stated that President KENNEDY was much concerned about the world situation, and is devoting most of his time to the problems relative to Berlin, Laos and South Vietnam.

MALONE advised that KLEBERG stated that from his conversation with Vice-President JOHNSON, it was clear to him that the present administration has no intention of using US military force in the Cuban

Bureau (109-584) (RM)

Miami (105-1742) (Info.) (RM)

Washington Field (105-29995) (Info.) (RM)

New York (105-35253)

6-25-98

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSR

DECLASSIFY ON 25X

Searched

Serialized

Indexed

Filed

SECRET 105-35353-987

NW 50953 DocId:32313263 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

NY 105-35253
problem, and that the Cuban problemize taken 4th
place in the order of importance as far as President
KENNEDY 18 concerned.

MALONE further advised on March 20, 1962, that
while in Washington,/DC, he had made arrangements to
contact Mr. HERBERT [ ](b)(u), who was described as the assistant
to Colonel KING of the CIA. MALONE stated that in
conversation with HERBERT [], the question of United States (x)(u)
action in Cuba was discussed, and HERBERT stated that (x)(u)
he did not agree with the opinion expreseed
by Vice-President LYNDON B. JOHNSON. HERBERT told (x)(u)
MALONE that he and his associates should get together
with Senators in thshington who are close to perfect
agreement with the "New Frontier" such as Senator KUBERT
HUMPHREY of Minnegote, and bring pressure to bear on
them since there Senators exert a certain degree of
influence over the Président.

MALONE stated on 3/20/62 that he also had a
meeting on 3/15/62 with his CIA contact, CHARLES MARCHIN. [](S)
MALONE stated that MARCHIN gave hin the definite (S)
Impression that he thought that President IOSNNEDY
and the US would at some time make a move in Cuba.
aite (S)
MARCHIN stated that the CIA continues to operate but
not with the complete authority with which they
would like to carry out their plans, MARCHIN suggested (S)
to MALONE that MALONE and his associates attempt to see
Attorney General ROBERT F. KENNEDY and see if some
pressure could not be brought to boar on the Cuban
matter from Attorney Ceneral KENNEET.

MALONE advised that from his conversations with
CIA on 3/15/62, and from the converention of ROBERT
KLEBERG with Vice-President JOHNSON, he definitely was
confused as to whother or not the US had any definite
plans for participation in an attempt to overthrow
the present Cuban regime. MALONE stated that from
conversations with other individuals in Washington,
he got the impression that the Cuban Revolutionary
Council was falling apart, and that Dr. JOSE MIRO CARDONA
had very little influence over the Guben exiles in
the Miami area.


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)