# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form
Date: 4/24/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90060-10015
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 163-15064-1

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: HQ
TO : PA
TITLE:

DATE: 07/12/1966
PAGES: 2
SUBJECTS: LUCIEN CONEIN
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/15/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

Légal, Paris (163-1071)
EX-103
Director, FBI (163-15064)

LUCIEN CONEIN
FPC

Reurlet 6/2/66.

7/12/66

2 - Orig & 1
1 - Yellow
1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Flemister

Bufiles reveal that the name Lucien Emile Conein,
born 11/29/19, appeared in a 1963 Central Intelligence
Agency (CIA) communication indicating Conein at that time
was a staff employee of the Agency. The files of the
Identification Division contain no arrest record for Lucien
Conein

Through Liaison channels, Bureau determined that
Conein is currently a covert employee of CIA, under the cover
of a State Department employee. He is presently in Saigon,
South Vietnam, on an extremely sensitive assignment. CIA
has requested that no information be furnished to the French
regarding his affiliation with CIA or with regard to his
present whereabouts

For your information, Richmond determined (by a
pretext telephone call) from the present occupant of
1111 Ingelside Avenue, McLean, Virginia, who is presently
renting this residence from Conein, that the latter is a
retired Lieutenant Colonel from the U. S. Army and is
presently working and assigned to the U. S. Embassy in Saigon.

No arrest records were located for Conein in either
Arlington County or Fairfax County, Virginia. Records of the
Credit Bureau, Incorporated, of Washington, D.C., reveal a
credit report dated 9/21/65, indicating that Lucien Conein,
of 1111 Ingelside Avenue, McLean, Virginia, was then married
to Ebjette and divorced from Carmen (last name not-shown).

In view of CIA's request, under no circumstances
should any information be furnished to the French concerning
subject's present affiliation with CIA or his whereabouts.
You may furnish the French the results of the credit and
criminal checks as noted above. If the French raise the

2 - St. Louis (Enclosure)
1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (detached)
HCF: jkm

CONTINUED - OVER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

Letter to Paris
RE: LUCIEN CONEIN
FPC

question of subject's whereabouts, you should inform them that inquiries to date reveal no information concerning his present whereabouts. You may advise the French that Conein's military service record is being reviewed for any pertinent information.

St. Louis should promptly locate and review Conein's military service record. According to Army sources in Washington, D. C., Conein's military service record was transferred to the U. S. Army Records Center, St. Louis, on 6/30/62. His military serial number was either 01320769 or 01322769. Furnish results in letterhead memorandum.

Enclosed for St. Louis is one copy of relet.

NOTE:

Subject was convicted by a French court in 12/47*
to pay his wife (Monique Veber) a monthly sum of 8,000 francs (about $16) for the support of her and two children which resulted from the marriage. Subject has never followed the orders of the court and is currently the subject of an investigation at the request of the Investigative Magistrate in France. Information in the possession of the French indicated that Conein resided at the Ingelside address and they requested investigation by the Bureau to verify his residence and to determine his present situation with regard to employment and standard of living. Legat, Paris, requested Bureau check Bufiles, Ident files, and requested Bureau have Richmond check credit and criminal records and conduct discreet limited investigation to comply with the request of the French Police.

In view of CIA's request as indicated in this letter, it is felt that under no circumstances should we make any mention of our knowledge of subject's whereabouts.

* and was ordered


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)