2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10105

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-81

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: HQ

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 04/20/1970.

'PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

REC-28 EX-115
62-79724-81

10/24/90
Classified by SPXELWLKEA
Declassify on: OADR
C.A.#88-1800

1 - Liaison
1 - Mr. Cassidy
April 20, 1970

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED
EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN
OTHERWISE

[SP LETTER SERIES]

Reference is made to your SP-9038 dated April 9, 1970. We feel that the method of addressing and forwarding SP material as utilized in this instance will enable us to handle such information in a discreet manner and request that you continue to forward this material in this manner.

With regard to [SCOPE] items, your suggestion as set forth in paragraph two of reference will enable us to handle this highly sensitive material in the proper manner and request that you forward it as proposed.

62-99724

ORIGINAL & 1 TO CIA

7-24-98

FJC:wmk/aga
(5)

CLASSIDY 5668 SLD/KSR
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X, 1,6

NOTE:

In 1954 a procedure was approved whereby we could attribute certain information received from CIA under the symbol "Bureau Informant 100." CIA forwards this information utilizing an SP (Special Projects) number. They are asking our concurrence in a method of addressing and forwarding this material. They also suggested forwarding [SCOPE] material(S) (sensitive information concerning [Israeli intelligence activities) in the same manner. They proposed to forward this material by courier in sealed envelopes to be delivered to Liaison Section Supervisor D. J. Brennan, Jr. It is felt this is the best way in which this highly sensitive material can be handled.

SECRET
-GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFI
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT
JM 6-29-98 BRACKETS

Tolson
DeLoach
Walters
Mohr
Bishop
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
el
Soyars
Tele. Room
Holines
Gandy

MAY 1 1970

NW 50953 DocId:32313177 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT. JM 6-29-98

SP-9038
9 April 1970

SUBJECT: SP Letter Series

James Angleton

1. In this same envelope we are forwarding other items which have interested you in the past and for which the SP series was originally set up. We would like you to confirm to us that this method of addressing and forwarding this material enables your office to handle it in the discreet manner as has been the case without exception in the past.

2. We have a few items in the SCOPE area which we would also like to forward. We suggest that the SCOPE material be forwarded in the same envelope with the regular SP letters, separately wrapped. We request your approval for handling the SCOPE material in this way.

3. Please coordinate any correspondence on this subject with Mr. D. J. Brennan.

FBI INFO
CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLD/KSK
DECLASSIFY ON: 25X
(JFK)

62-99724-81
10 APR 22 1970

62-99724

![GROUP 1 Excluded from au's natio downgrading and declasification]

NW 50953 DocId:32313177 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)