# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 6/12/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10213-10483

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-121229-1

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 05/27/1963

PAGES: 2

SUBJECTS: LCA, ASSOC, CUBA IN ARMS

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/19/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS:

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId:32294707 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# INFORMATION REPORT

# INFORMATION REPORT

CENTRAL INTEL SENCE AGENCY

This material contains information affecting the National Defense of the United States within the meaning of the Espionage Laws, Title 18, U.S.C. Secs. 793 and 794, the transmission or revelation of which in any manner to an unauthorized person is prohibited by law.

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

COUNTRY Cubà

REPORT NO. 00-K-3,262,509

SUBJECT Prente Interno de Unidad Revolucionaris DATE DISTR. 27 May 63
(FIUR)

NO. PAGES 2

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, REFERENCES Guide 303-BR
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

DATE OF 25 Apr 63 and earlier IN THIS DOCUMENT. Except the BRACKETS
INFO.

PLACE & --/25 Apr 63 and earlier
DATE ACQ.

THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION

SOURCE: Cuban national presently residing in the United States.

Source was a prominent sports writer and a very active member of the Havana Yacht Club. He is presently employed as a reporter on a large newspaper and is in close contact with Cuban exile leaders.

[This report was developed by an AFNIN Air Force representative assigned to the office of preparation.]

[ON FILE IN THE CIA LIBRARY is a copy, in Spanish, of the Frente Interno de, Unidad Revolucionaria - FIUR.]

1. A Cuban exile, Julio Leal, residing at 4823 East 8th Court, Hialeah, Florida, claims to be the US Delegate of the "Cuban Government in Arms". He also claims that he received a copy of a proclamation prepared by members of the FIUR, in Cuba, and was authorized to release it to publicity sources. He provided me with a copy of the FIUR declaration. [See On File Material.]

2. On 25 Apr 63 Leal furnished me with a copy of a document, in Spanish, which showed the appointments to executive and cabinet posts of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Cuba in Arms. The names are:

President - To be announced at a later date for reasons of security.
Vice-President - Dr Gustave Cuerve Rubio
Premier - Dr Jose Manuel Gutierrez
Secretary to the President - To be announced at a leter date.
Minister of State - Dr Carlos Prie Socarras
Minister of Communications - Luis Conte Aguero
Minister of Transportation - Dr Aureliano Sanchez Arango
Minister of Commerce - Abel Mestre
Minister of Justice - Dr Ricardo-Refe Sardings
Minister of Interior - Dr Manuel Antonio de Varona
Minister of Education - Dr Jose Ignacio Lazaga
Minister of Public Works - Ing Manuel Ray
Minister of Health - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Minister of Defense - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.
Minister of Labor - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons,

Copy to Mm/4/fwFo/SJ

by routing slip for

XEROX info action

date 6-5-63

JUN 4 1963 copies made

by van/st

STATE ARMY NAVY AIR FBI AEC

INFORMATIEPOPT INFORMATION REPORT

NW 50953 DocId: 32294707 Page 2

ALL FBI INFORMATION CONTAINED
HERE IS UNCLASSIFIED


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

C-O-N-F-I-D-E-N-T-I-A-L

213-10483

00-K-3,262,509

Rec'd in Rec

6-6-63

- 2 -

Minister of Agriculture - Now in Cuba, name not revealed for security reasons.

Minister of Public Housing - To be announced at a later date.

The following individuals have been named Ministers without portfolio and subsecretaries:

Jose Ignacio Rivero

Manuel Reyes

Jorge Castellanos

Lauraeano/Batista Falla

Agusto Fernandez Conde

Manuel Salvat

Humberte Medrano

Fermin Peinado

Melchor Gaston

Manuel Fernandez

Enrique Huertas

Designated Ambassador to Washington - Dr Guillermo Belt

OAS Delegate - Dr Herminio Portell Wila

3.  I doubt that Leal has been designated as the US representative for FIUR, and do not believe that the documents he gave me originated in Cuba. I suspect that another group of exiled Cuban politicians wrote the document in the US, and are trying to get national publicity in order to get support.

I have recently heard that Eloy Gutierrez Menoyo has been added to the list of Cabinet appointments. I doubt very much that Gutierrez and Ray would be fully accepted by the majority of Cubans in exile.

-end-


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)