2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/9/2015

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10326-10100

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-99724-9, 10

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: BRANIGAN

TO: BELMONT

TITLE:

DATE: 04/30/1954

'PAGES: 4

SUBJECTS: BUREAU SOURCE 100 (ANGLETON)

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION : Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/17/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: A. H. BELMONT

FROM: W. A. BRANIGAN

SUBJECT: JAMES ANGLETON
CIA

SECRET

DATE: April 30, 1954

Tolson
Ladd
Nichols
Belmont
Clegg
Glavin
Harbo
Rosea
Tracy
Gearty
Mohr
Winterrowd
Tele. Room
Holloman
Sizoo
Miss Gandy

As you are aware, James Angleton of CIA frequently turns over to the Bureau on a highly confidential basis information which has been developed through operations headed by Angleton. In many instances the information is given to the Bureau without clearing through regular CIA channels. In almost all instances it is given to us with the clear understanding that if included in a report or other communication prepared for dissemination outside the Bureau the information will be so set forth that it cannot be traced back to either Angleton or CIA. In such instances where the information relates to Israeli matters, it has been the practice of Israeli(S) supervisors to clear with Angleton before disseminating information from him outside the Bureau.

In taking up such a matter with Angleton last week it was determined that he objected to attributing information which he had furnished to "Confidential Informant T-2, an Agency of the Government which conducts personnel and intelligence investigations." He pointed out that by describing T-2 as an agency of the Government which conducts personnel and intelligence investigations the Bureau was revealing to outside agencies that the material did in fact come from another Government agency. Since the material related to an individual who now resides in Israel, Angleton stated that, in his opinion, recipient agencies could logically conclude that the information had originated with CIA since such an individual would be under CIA jurisdiction insofar as investigations abroad are concerned. Angleton requested that the information merely be attributed to Confidential Informant T-2, who, in this instance, could be described as being of known reliability.

It is suggested that it would materially assist in the handling of information received from Angleton in the future, if the Liaison Section could work out a procedure whereby Angleton might be referred to as a Bureau informant. This would permit the Supervisors receiving the Angleton material firsthand to transmit it to the field and advise the field that the information in any report should be attributed to an informant with a temporary symbol number, which informant could be evaluated as having furnished in- formation of a reliable nature in the past. On the informant page the temporary symbol number could be identified by the regular Bureau symbol assigned to Angleton.

WRW:mh


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)