# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

IDENTIFICATION FORM

AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10185-10100

RECORD SERIES: HO

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-475

DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: CREGAR. W. O.

TO: WANNALL. W. R.

TITLE:

DATE: 07/23/1975

PAGES: 32

SUBJECT: CC, REQUEST, INSTR, AFFIL, LAW ENFORCEMENT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER. TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 10/30/1998

UPDATE DATE: 02/12/2001

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS: INC MEMOS, 169 OF 201 PAGES NAR


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. R. Wannall

FROM: W. O. Cregar

SUBJECT: SENSTUDY 75

SYNOPSIS: On 6/20/75, we were advised that CIA had in 1973 prepared a 693-page document citing instances wherein CIA operations may have exceeded its mandate. This document, in sanitized form, was reviewed by Intelligence Division personnel and was found to contain many references to this Bureau, some of which dealt with operations of an extremely sensitive nature. The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence Activities (SSC) has had access to this document. At the specific request of this Bureau, CIA on 7/15/75 made available 190 pages of the document believed to be of interest to this Bureau. These pages are submitted as enclosures to this memorandum, which highlights some of the contents thereof. Items so highlighted include various technical support CIA has provided this Bureau in the area of electronic coverage of embassies in the United States, handling of Iron Curtain country defectors; CIA notional and proprietary operations, some of which were used to procure technical equipment for this Bureau, CIA-FBI cooperation in training matters relating to counter-espionage responsibilities; interception of mail from behind the Iron Curtain; CIA briefing and debriefing of FBI sources traveling abroad and CIAxinvolvement and interest in domestic dissident groups. Mention is made in this document that while McCone was CIA Director, conversations over his phone, and, in his office were recorded. As SSC has had access to this document attempts are being made to fully identify all references for purpose of possible damage assesment to this Bureau.

ENCLOSURE Enclosures

62-116395

TJM:1hbhb

1975 ROUTE IN ENVELOPE

NW 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

TOP SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Pages 70, 72, 73, 77 and 582 - All refer to use of CIA funds ($2,700,000) during fiscal years 1971 and 1972 to acquire real estate for FBI use against a common target in the United States. NSA is also involved in this project, which is referred to as "MHDOZEN" by CIA [^5]

Pages 107, 108, 149-151, 155, 156, 158-161, 296, 353 and 354 - All relate to CIA and the Watergate incident, contacts with Watergate principals and inquiries made of CIA by FBI during Watergate investigation.

Page 111 - *Refers to CIA proprietary interest in a legitimate Maryland electronics firm for the purpose of obtaining electronic equipment in violation of Title 18, Section 2512, U. S. Code. On 9/10/71, FBI made inquiry at electronics firm and subsequently was briefed of CIA interest. Inquiry was then terminated.

Page 112 - In approximately February, 1971, FBI requested technical assistance of CIA in connection with sensitive project, not further described. Item also indicates that CIA, at the request of FBI, had procured electronic equipment costing approximately $48,000. Item indicates such purchases could be legally accomplished under Economy Act of 1925.

Pages 118-119 - List electronic and photographic equipment and material purchased by CIA for FBI, 1971 to 1972.

Page 136 - Indicates CIA-FBI project whereby analysis of surveillance data entered into a CIA computer was discussed with the FBI.

CONTINUED - OVER

TOP SECRET

- 5 -

NW 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 3


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

TOP SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Pages 140-142 - Refer to CIA assistance to FBI in projects
utilizing code names MOHAWK, UNION, WUGRAVEL, ORKID and ROSE. (S)
Page 142 in general terms identifies the nature of these
operations.

Page 163 - Makes reference to knowledge of CIA officials
concerning CIA program for processing data relating to American
citizens believed to be militants, subversives, terrorists, etc.

Pages 171, 190, 191 and 330 - Refer to 1968 CIA-prepared
document captioned "Restless Youth," which received extremely
limited dissemination as some information contained therein
pertains to U. S. student radicals and is indicative that CIA
had exceeded its charter. Attorney General received copy,
March, 1969, but no indication FBI had received copy.

Page 178 - Indicates that CIA had conducted research project
on Robert Vesco.

Pages 180-182, 184, 185 and 202 - Refer to CIA's collection
of information on individuals in the United States (mostly
foreign), CIA accepting information relating to foreign
involvement with United States dissident groups when such
sources refuse to talk to FBI and relates that CIA had supplied
linguist to FBI to translate Arabic.

Pages 188, 189 and 330 - Concern information prepared by CIA
relating to visits of Stokely Carmichael to Caribbean area and
various ramifications connected therewith. Information was
prepared for CIA use only, but one copy was "inadvertently" sent
to FBI.

Pages 193-194 - Refer to CIA's preparation of document for
President Johnson dealing with links between foreign elements
and the U. S. peace movement.

CONTINUED - OVER

TOP SECRET

- 6 -

NW 50953 DocId:32176434 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

TOP SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

Page 197 - Indicates CIA maintains a library of information on some U. S. citizens and covertly looks at film cans addressed to some U. S. citizens.

Page 203 - Relates that CIA, through Foreign Broadcast Information Service and at the request of the Justice Department and the FBI, furnished Justice Department with transcript and broadcasts made by Jane Fonda in Hanoi and Ramsey Clark in Vietnam.

Pages 221, 222 and 330 - Refer to seven instances where CIA has furnished audio technical equipment and guidance to this Bureau, believed to be directed mainly against foreign establishments in this country.

Pages 234 and 242 - Indicate that CIA had described to this Bureau Imagery Enhancement techniques germane to removing distortion from photographs relating to an alleged bank robber.

Page 282 - Reports that the FBI desires to check for fingerprints on all cryptogram messages mailed to high government officials. Agency personnel were requested to arrange for transmittal of such messages to FBI.

Page 329 "WESTPOINTER" - Concerns project similar to "SPROINTER" (page 28). This project was conducted in the San Francisco, California, area and involved mail sent to the United States from Mainland China.

Page 329 "SALVAGE"- From May to September, 1967, CIA rented and maintained custodianship of an FBI monitoring post in New York City targeted against the United Nations. This was done at the request of a high official of the Bureau who

TOP SECRET

- 7 -

CONTINUED - OVER


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

TOP SECRET

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

desired to maintain the capabilities, despite the fact that the FBI Director had ordered the operation terminated. In September, 1967, operational assets were returned to the FBI to reinitiate operational use

Pages 334, 362, 363, 371, 373, 376-379, 384, 385, 468-470 and 615 - Refer to coverage of a foreign establishment in this country (later identified as Chilean Embassy) initiated by FBI at the request of CIA and which ran intermittently during the period May, 1971, to February, 1973 Reference is also made to a press-reported burglary of this establishment in May, 1973 and this Bureau's declination to investigate the burglary on the basis of lack of jurisdiction. CIA's code name for this operation is WUDOOR

Pages 457 and 485 - Refer to incident in 1962, wherein CIA was involved in breaking and entering and the removal of documents from an unknown location in Washington, D. C. The President and the Secretary of State had been informed of the operation. Attorney General Kennedy instructed that the FBI should not be advised unless the Bureau first initiated inquiry concerning the incident

Pages 458 and 459 - Refer to Bureau objection (when Mr. Belmont was Bureau official) to CIA proposal that CIA become involved in a greatly increased intelligence collection effort against foreign establishments in this country

Pages 446 and 461 - Indicate that while McCone was CIA Director, conversations over his phone and in his office were recorded.

Page 482 "PIMPLODESTAR" - Refers to CIA project to target assets against the "leftist" and communist milieu in various parts of the world. These assets are often directed against similar targets in the United States, and each case was reportedly cleared with the FBI

TOP SECRET

CONTINUED - OVER


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)