# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

## AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10114-10010

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-109090-356

## DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, PA

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 10/28/1964

PAGES: 9

SUBJECT: WC, ASSISTANCE, NEWS MEDIA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 09/24/1997

UPDATE DATE: 01/23/2001

STATUS Redact

## RESTRICTIONS:

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

COMMENTS: INC DIRECTOR, FBI RESPONSE, TRANSLATION FROM SPANISH AND CIA
LTR TO LEG, PA


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
5010-104-01
UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

# Memorandum

TO: Director, FBI (62-109090)

FROM: Legat, Paris (62-148) (P.)

SUBJECT: THE PRESIDENT'S COMMISSION ON
THE ASSASSINATION OF
PRESIDENT KENNEDY

ENCLOSURE
Secret DATE: 10-28-64

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT,

Enclosed for the Bureau is one copy of a self-explanatory Paris Embassy CAS (Controlled American Source CIA) memorandum along with a copy of the letter in Spanish mentioned in the memorandum.

The Paris Office has referred this matter to the High General Staff (HGS), Madrid, Spain, with a request for investigation by that service in an effort to locate and identify the sender of the letter, and to interview him for any data he may be able to supply. The results of this Paris request of the HGS will be promptly reported when available.

3 - Bureau (Enc. 2) ENCLOSURE
(1 - Liaison Section)

1 - Paris

HPW: HD

NW 50953 DocId: 32156250 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

MEMORANDUM FOR: Mr. Norman Philcox
Legal Attache

FROM : CAS

SUBJECT : Crank Letter Concerning Warren Commission Document

CAS-2290
20 October 1964

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT

Our office in Madrid has sent us a copy of the attached Spanish-language letter addressed to the American Ambassador to Spain, and signed by one Antilin PERIS, alleging in the first paragraph that the author has some information of interest to impart. After opening the second paragraph by saying that he had to flee Paris due to an indiscretion committed there, the author states:

"There (apparently Paris), in the home of some American friends, I got hold of an authentic document about the assassination in Dallas, which they say was swiped from the Warren Commission and which is certainly prejudicial for President Johnson. I have it on good authority that they are currently trying to sell it to no less than the Director of "Paris-Match." Someone from the Embassy of the United Kingdom in Paris is involved in the matter."

The author closes by suggesting that an advertisement be inserted in a Madrid newspaper if there be any interest in further details.

There are no traces from Madrid on Antilin PERIS, which according to CAS, Madrid is almost certainly an alias. Needless to say there is no return address on the letter or envelope, which was mailed from Barcelona on 26 September 1964. CAS, Madrid has forwarded us a copy of the letter on the off chance that we may have received similar allegations; in such case Madrid would appreciate learning the details so that they might inform the Embassy. It was also suggested that we show you this letter.

CAS, Paris has no traces on Antilin PERIS.

oc: United States Secret Service
Attn: Mr. John Hanly

SECRET


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)