124-10280-10030 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System
Identification Form Date: 4/15/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-10280-10030
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-77667-21

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: SAC, MM
TO: DIRECTOR, FBI
TITLE:
DATE: 07/29/1964
PAGES: 3
SUBJECTS: CC, SECADES, ROLANDO L. CUBELA, ASSOC, LIAISON WITH
CIA, CONSPR, CUBA, CASTRO, FIDEL
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/14/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS:

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32302093 Page 1

1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# Memorandum

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI (105-77667)

FROM: SAC, MIAMI (109-471) (C)

SUBJECT: ROLANDO L. CUBELA Y SECADES
IS - CUBA

DATE: July 29, 1964

Remylet 10/11/63.

It is noted that CUBELA is a Cuban Government official whose desire to defect was made known by MM 761-S in June, 1962. (Thereafter, CIA apparently made contact with CUBELA in Europe through CARLOS TEPEDINO, 9819 64th Avenue, Rego Park, Queens, New York, a Cuban exile and long-time friend of MM 761-S, who frequently travels in Europe.

MM 761-S advised that on July 15, 1964, he was visited by CARLOS TEPEDINO, at which time he confided certain information concerning CUBELA. He cautioned the informant to say nothing concerning their conversation which would permit the information to reach CIA or any other source through which it might become public, inasmuch as to do so might result in the death of persons in Cuba, as well as TEPEDINO himself.

TEPEDINO thereupon confided that he has been acting as the contact man between CIA and CUBELA. CUBELA is also in contact with the Cuban Ambassador in Paris named CARRILLO, who reportedly is anti-CASTRO. CARRILLO(S) has been assisting both CUBELA and TEPEDINO.

According to TEPEDINO, CUBELA has been constantly complaining to him that CIA refuses to furnish him with certain necessary equipment with which he could take some

2 - Bureau (RM)

2 - Miami

(1 - 109-471)

(1 - 134-379-Sub A)

THE/neb

(4)

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED #211,326

DATE 12/9/85


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MM 109-471

# SECRET

effective action in Cuba. According to [TEPEDINO,] CUBELA desires some sort of compact equipment with which he can possibly eliminate CASTRO; however, CIA keeps offering him only large, bulky, unserviceable material.

According to [TEPEDINO,] there is now under discussion some plan to kill FIDEL CASTRO, in which CUBELA will figure. CIA allegedly was formerly in favor of such a plan; however, inasmuch as Attorney General ROBERT KENNEDY would have no part of it, it was shelved. Now the plan has allegedly been brought up again for consideration. President JOHNSON allegedly is aware of it, and has not ruled against it. If set in motion, it will be scheduled to occur sometime before the elections in November.

[TEPEDINO] told the informant he has not been able to learn much more concerning this plan, other than that CUBELA is supposed to participate, that it is to be accomplished by men in Cuba, and possibly someone from Europe.

The informant advised [TEPEDINO] did not specifically indicate how he had acquired this information; however, the informant presumed from his manner of speaking that he had obtained it from CUBELA.

The above is for the information of the Bureau, and is not being submitted in form suitable for dissemination since both [TEPEDINO] and CUBELA are apparently of operational interest to CIA. Dissemination would also lead to the disclosure of MM 761-S. Although questioned closely, MM 761-S was not able to furnish any further details.

2. 
NW 50953 DocId:32302093 Page 3


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)