# JFK ASSASSINATION SYSTEM

## IDENTIFICATION FORM

### AGENCY INFORMATION

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10273-10104

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 62-116395-1640

### DOCUMENT INFORMATION

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: DIRECTOR, FBI

TO: SECRETARY OF STATE

TITLE:

DATE: 02/16/1967

PAGES: 102

SUBJECT: CIA, NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOC, PICKETING, DEMONSTRATION

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

ORIGINAL CLASSIFICATION: Secret

NEW CLASSIFICATION:

REVIEW DATE: 10/30/1998

UPDATE DATE: 02/14/2001

STATUS Redact

RESTRICTIONS:

Consultation

JFK Act 6 (1)(B)

JFK Act 6 (1)(C)

JFK Act 6 (4)

COMMENTS: EBF, INC 2 ADMIN PAGE, 3 T/T, 34 ΜΕΜO, 5 LTR, 2 LHM, 6 NEWS ARTIC, 8 A/T


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

2/13/67

AIRTEL

AIRMAIL

TO: SAC, JACKSONVILLE

FROM: SAC, JACKSON (166-NEW) (P)

WENDELL R.MELQUIST;
ANTHONY LENNON:

On 2/16/67, (PCI LOUISE SKELTON, Biloxi, Miss.) advised on 2/7/67 above subjects registered into the Travel Inn Motel, Biloxi. FCI stated that at time of registration above subjects furnished the following information on their motel registration card:

> [Figure: Image of a motel registration card with handwriting on it]

"WENDELL R. MELQUEST
260 Vernal Street
Eugene, Oregon
B. APPROX
1937-1942

"1965 Ford, Florida License 8W20164
Employed, U. S. Government"

"ANTHONY LENNON
43-24 165th Street
Flushing, N. Y.
B. APPROX
1937-1942

"Self-employed"

PCI described MELQUEST as a white male, age 25-30, height, 5' 5", weight 150 to 160 pounds, dark hair, brown eyes, medium complexion, and subject LENNON as a white male, age 25-30, height 6', weight 175 pounds, light brown or sandy hair, fair or light complexion with freckles.

2 - Jacksonville
2 - New York
1 - Portland
1 - Bureau


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

# Memorandum

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM : LEGAT, HONG KONG

SUBJECT: RELATIONS WITH CIA

DATE: 3/6/67

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR, RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT. EXCEPT BRACKETS

ReBulet 2/8/67.

Assistant Chief of Station, CIA, Hong Kong, has advised that the situation in Macau has returned to a degree of normalcy in which covert inquiries can again be handled in that colony with no more difficulty than before.

This is submitted for info of Bureau supervisors handling Chinese investigative matters.

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED HEREIN CLASSIFIED EXCEPT WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

Classified Per Agency 4tr.
dated 11/24/93
9803 dd/pgd #211,326
51492

Bureau

(1 - Foreign Liaison)

1-(Hong Kong
DAL/djw

REC 10 62-80750-45-11

TO MAR 13 1967

EX-114

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approvitiof the FBI.

![photo of 6 MAR 21 1967 stamp]

Buy U.S. Savings Bonds Regularly on the Payroll Savings Plan


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

## Memorandum

**TO** : Mr. Rosen

**FROM**: R. I. Shroder

**SUBJECT**: COMMUNIST PARTY OF VENEZUELA
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)
INTERNAL SECURITY - VENEZUELA
KIDNAPING

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR DATE: March 15, 1967
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT.
EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS – Mr. Malley
Mr. Shroder
Mr. Thompson
Mr. Sullivan
Mr. Trotter

This relates to information received from CIA in- dicating the possibility that the Communist Party of Venezuela may attempt to kidnap the child of a CIA employee Thomas Keogh. No investigation is being conducted by us and appropriate dissemination has previously been made.

At our suggestion, through liaison with CIA, fingerprints and photographs have been obtained and were furnished to SA W. O. Cregar by Mrs. Jane Roman of CIA on 3/10/67. This material is being made part of this file for possible use in the event of a kidnaping. Photographs and fingerprints are of the following individuals: Joseph Edward Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, Jr.; Christina Margarita Keogh; Elizabeth Teresa Keogh; Francis Xavier Keogh; Thomas Patrick Keogh, III, and Maria Rita Keogh

**ACTION:**

This matter has been coordinated with the Identification Division and it is recommended that this memo and attachments be sent directly to SA Carl Volker, Room 4125, IB, in order that the fingerprints may be promptly classified and filed.

Enclosure

WFDT:emf

Fingerprints of following detailees:

MARIA RITA KEOSH
EDWARD JOSEPH KEOGH
CHRISTINA MARGARITA KEGEH
ELIZABETH TERESA KEOGH
FRANCIS XAVIER KEOGH
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH JR.
THOMAS PATRICK KEOGH III.

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 4

![photo of a document with classified label.]


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

# SECRET

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN, REG NO. 27

UNITED STATES GC RNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. W. C. Sullivan

DATE: 3/15/67

FROM: D. J. Brennan, Jr.

SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

In connection with developments in the case captioned "NK 2264-S,(IS-R), Bureau file 134(9824, the [SD] Director noted "I note more and more we are telling CIA about our domestic operations and always to our detriment. I want this trend stopped. H." (A separate memorandum is being submitted concerning a new development in the aforementioned case).

On 3/15/67, the Liaison Agent met with Richard Helms, Director, CIA, and took the opportunity to review the status of relations between FBI and CIA. It was felt that this was an opportune time to do so in view of the Director's concern as expressed above.

Helms stated that he personally was pleased with relations between the two Agencies. He stated that sometimes he is irked or disturbed when people outside and inside of the Government ask the question "How are you getting along with the FBI?" He indicated that this question is frequently asked by members of Congress. Helms stated that he religiously has followed a practice of lucidly and firmly advising such people that relations are excellent. He stated that he personally believed that this was true.

The Liaison Agent commented that working relations are good, but there was an area which might not be getting proper attention. The Agent stated that there was reason to be concerned regarding effective coordination on those cases which are of interest to both FBI and CIA because there appeared to be developing an atmosphere where people in both Agencies felt that there was now wide-open liberty to conduct operations and activities of a joint nature. The Agent stated that he wished to emphasize that such an atmosphere cannot exist and that Mr. Hoover would never condone any trend in this direction. The Agent commented that work in this area had to be very efficiently coordinated and that we in the Bureau were closely scrutinizing each situation as it develops where both Agencies had an interest. The Agent suggested that Mr. Helms might desire to alert appropriate subordinates in the Agency on this point.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 6

FBI

Date: 3/17/67

Transmit the following in

(Type in plaintext or code)

Via AIRTEL

(Priority)

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAC, WFO (66-3896)

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
OPERATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES

Source

On 3/15/67, PSI EMIL R. SVEILIS, the late night desk editor, United Press International, Washington, D. C., who has furnished reliable information in the past, said that he wished to advise this office that he overheard comments indicating that CIA had contributed at least one million dollars to the National Council of Churches. He also advised that he understood that the CIA maintains a "safe house at the Airle House, Warrenton, Virginia." He was questioned specifically about the source of the above information and indicated that he believed that he heard this information from individuals connected with the news media but he could not recall the exact identity of these individuals. He indicated that he got the impression that this information was common knowledge in the news field.

The Bureau may wish to advise CIA by appropriate channels concerning the information that the CIA had allegedly contributed money to the National Council of Churches and maintains a "safe house" at Warrenton, Virginia. This information was not put in LHM form because of its general character and because the PSI was unable to recall his source of this information or when the information came to his attention.

The PSI requested that his identity be protected.

Bureau

2 - WFO

(1-134-7249 Sub A) (SVEILIS)

PAT:mfd

AIRTEL

Approved:

Special Agent in Charge

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 6


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 7

OPTIONAL FORM NO. 10
MAY, 1962 EDITION
GSA GEN. REG. NO. 27

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

# Memorandum

CONFIDENTIAL

TO: MR. J. P. MOHR DATE: 3/24/67

FROM: MR. I. W. CONRAD

SUBJECT: REQUEST FOR TOUR OF LABORATORY
BY TECHNICAL PERSONNEL OF
CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

Mr. Lon Thomas, Document Examiner for CIA, called this afternoon to inquire if a tour could be arranged through the FBI Laboratory for himself and two of his co-workers, Mr. Joseph Hall and Stanley Schultz. They have no specific problems, but merely wish to visit our facilities briefly. Accordingly, tentative arrangements have been made for the requested tour at 1 p.m., March 29, 1967.

ACTION:

Unless advised to the contrary, the tour will be conducted as requested.

Bracketed Classified Per
CAA ltr 11/26/9 Remainder is uncless.
9803-Rad/ge/211,320 5/14/92.

1-Mr. Wick (Att: Tour Room)
1-Mr. W. C. Sullivan (Att: Mr. S. Papich)
1-Mr. Conrad
(4) IWC:dmg

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT,
EXCEPT FOR THE BRACKETS
Jm 6-25-97
(SLD ILSR
8-2-47)

CONFIDENTIAL

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemi-
nation outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings by
your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized person-
without the express approval of the FBI.

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 7


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 8

# CONFIDENTIAL

UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

Memorandum

TO: Mr. D. J. Brennan,

FROM: W. O. Cregar

DATE: 4/4/67

SUBJECT: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (CIA)

ALIEN INTERVIEW REQUESTS

Tolsen
DeLoach
Mohr
Wick
Casper
Callahan
Conrad
Felt
Gale
Rosen
Sullivan
Tavel
Trotter
Tele. Room
Holmes
Gandy

Re memorandum Cotter to Sullivan dated 3/28/67 which instructed the Liaison Agent to advise appropriate CIA representatives of the change in handling alien interview requests at the Bureau.

On 3/31/67, the Liaison Agent advised Mr. Leo Dunn of the change in handling alien interview requests at FBI Headquarters. (Dunn) was advised that the overall coordination for handling these requests would be handled by the Bureau's Name Check Section under the coordination of Special Agent J. W. Brown.

Inasmuch as CIA occasionally makes a telephonic request when expedite matters are involved, the Liaison Agent obtained the names of Eugene Young and Becky Vaughn as the persons who would call Special Agent Brown in the event an expedite matter is involved. CIA is well aware that the use of this telephonic request should be held to a minimum and used only at times when time is of the essence and the matter is of sufficient importance to deviate from the normal request procedures.

ACTION:

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINED
HEREIN IS UNCLASSIFIED EXCEPT
WHERE SHOWN OTHERWISE.

The above is directed to the Name Check Section for their information and attention.

1 - Mr. Scatterday (J.W. Brown)

1 - Mr. Cotter

1 - Liaison

1 - Mr. Papich

1 - Mr. Cregar

WOC:rab
(6)

9/25/85
Classified by 5668-520/de
Declassify on: OADR

REC-47-62-807-0 4571

3 APR 7 1967

This document is prepared in response to your request and is not for dissemination outside your Committee. Its use is limited to official proceedings bu your Committee and the content may not be disclosed to unauthorized personnel without the express approval of the FBI.

CONFIDENTIAL

56APR 171967

NAME CHECK

NW 50953 DocId:32199369 Page 8


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)