# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

JFK Assassination System
Identification Form

Date: 4/23/201

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-90041-10023

RECORD SERIES : HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER : CR 97-3856-13

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY

FROM: CIA

TO:

TITLE:

DATE: 10/26/1959

PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS: CRUZADA REVOLUCIONARIA ANTI COMUNISTA
JOSE RASCO BERMUDA

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/18/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: RPT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

- 2 -

CS-3/416,495

with his local supporters through three women who visit him periodically. He
has been apprised of the activities of his followers in Miami and has requested
that $20,000 be furnished to a 40-man group of his followers in Camaguey
Province. The Camaguey group is the one he has charged with making a raid on
La Cabaña prison and freeing him.

6. Under the orders of Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro, one PRUNA Blanco (fmu) has
   contacted one Narciso NAVARRO who has a group of followers in Pinar del
   Rio and has arms, ammunition, and dynamite buried on his farm, in that province.
   PRUNA Blanco has a group of followers in Pinar del Rio province which
   is led by Jesus CABRERA and former sergeant MARTINEZ (fmu) The CABRERA
   group is called Legión Democrática Cubana (LDC, Cuban Democratic
   Legion). The buried arms and dynamite are to be used in sabotage and assassination
   attempts.

7. PRUNA Blanco has also sent one Bernardo PARETS Gonzalez to contact Manuel
   BLANCO Navarro in Miami. PRUNA Blanco is attempting to set up an arms drop
   to the LDC at a point 10 kilometers north of Los Palacios (22 36N, 83 16W).
   LDC men will be waiting at this point and will signal the plane making the
   drop with four flashlights.

8. Besides the two groups in Pinar del Rio province and the group in Camaguey,
   Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro also has two groups in Matanzas and Santa Clara
   provinces.

9. On about 25 August 1959 Manuel BLANCO Navarro, in Miami, wrote a letter to one of
   his followers in Cuba. Enclosed with the letter were two messages which BLANCO
   asked be forwarded to Orlando VELAZCO, Distribuidora de Refrescos ARENAL
   HNO SA, Avenida No. 515 y 517, Cardenas, Matanzas, telephone 6325. BLANCO also
   asked that CELAZCO be informed that the letters were "from his sister Haydee"
   (Sic). One of the messages reads as follows:

Dear Brother:

I am writing these lines to accompany a letter from my friend
Dr. Rodriguez Couceiro in whose house I am staying since I found
out that they have arrested Leonel and that I cannot return there.
As you will see in the letter, I am sending you a series of instruc-
tions to see if we can maintain the group that is presently without
any leaders. Just as you have probably read in the newspapers, they
have caught all the leaders in the roundup. This doesn't mean any-
thing more than that we shall be delayed until we are reorganized
again. Only about 100 were arrested, and the group numbered about
3,000.

As he (my friend) informs you, I do not believe that you ought
to visit Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro in La Cabaña prison. You should
send someone in whom you have confidence. In the new contacts that you
made do not use your own name. Use an alias so that, if anyone
should talk, they will not be able to identify you. You should pro-
tect the place where you live. When you have meetings, hold them at
prearranged places, never in your home. I know that you know how to
do these things, but I want to warn you to be careful and use other
persons to make your contacts. Don't do-it personally. The principal
objective is to is able to maintain yourself as the leader of the
movement at least until you select chiefs if your work prevents you
from leading in Habana.

We have made contact here with a large group which was not caught
and which is also organized from Autentico people. This group did not
lose its leaders, since, as I say, it was not caught because it had
joined us only a few days previously. This group is almost ready for
action; so it is urgent that you reorganize our people rapidly in order

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NW 50953 DocId:32325941 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

- 3 -
  CS-3/416,495

that Don Fidel may not last until the New Year. In the next letter we
shall send more details and possibly give the main outlines of the
business. As soon as you have anything to report, use a courier in
whom you have confidence. Do not use the name of Carlos LOSADA since
that name is now "burned". Use the name Angel MARTINEZ and use the
address which you already have for the time being. I think that we
shall soon change residence, but I will send you the new address as
soon as we do.

When you reply, use the name "little grandmother" (abuelita)
since as you know, my name is also "burned". Many regards to all
and an embrace from your sister

Haydee.(5)

10. The second message reads as follows:

Miami 21 August 1959

Orlando VELASCO
Dear Friend:

As I suppose you already know, because of the treason of William
Morgan 12 and Eloy GUTIERREZ Menoyo12, the leaders of the Organization
have been arrested, and it is most necessary that our people be
reorganized so that the movement is not lost. The only person who is
able to do so is you. I know that the responsibility is very great
but I also know your abilities, and we are sure that you will be able
to do the job.

As a first objective, it is necessary to establish contact with
Captain Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro. He is the chief of our organization
and will continue to be. He is in prison in La Cabaña, according to
our information, but is allowed to receive visitors. He knows you,.
since you met each other in his office. You can introduce yourself as
the brother of Haydee. He will give you names of parsons and instruc-
tions to follow. However, it is very important that, while he remains
a prisoner, you set up a courier so that you don't have to make sub-
sequent visits. This would be dangerous in the extreme.

With respect to the rebels, be very careful in making your contacts,
since one lesson is enough. There is one safe person whom you can trust,
Dr. Fran MARSHALL. He is secretary of the Union Club. You can see
him or on our behalf and on that of the "Mejicano" so that he will not
mistrust you, you can tell him that the last time we saw him was at a
dinner on the terrace of the Union Club Tell him that it rained a lot.
Find out from him if Lt. PEÑA Gan or cannot be trusted, since our
information is contradictory. Be very careful with the rebels, and don't
make the contacts with them directly. It is better that you designate
another person for the purpose. Franis trustworthy but very easygoing.

Another group you can contact is that of Jorge GUTIERREZ Izaguirre
in the Rosita de Hornedo. Tell him that you were sent by Francisco
GONZALEZ, who is in Montclair, New Jersey; that here we are united;
and that he should join his group to our movement. I shall send you
more information on this group.

You should also see Dr. Valentin ARENAS Amiga. His office is
at Aguiar No. 556. Habana. Tell him that you come on my behalf and
to recall the last visit of myself and the Mejicano to his office,
in which we were speaking of CASTRO. I recently wrote him a letter
from New York, He leads a group of followers of Jose Ignacio RASCO
Artimes etc. 15 (sic) of the Agrupacion.


S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

- 4 -

CS-3/416,495

You should also see Señor Agustín BATISTA, Jr. in the Banco Trust Company. He knows Fran and is a cousin of Enrique LLACA. So that he doesn't mistrust you, tell him that you are the messenger (enviado) and tell him to recall the interview we had in the lobby of the Savoy Hilton of New York. Up to recently he had a group.

For financial matters you can see Señor BELT a friend of Haydee, and Señor Alin SUERO Falla. To contact the latter, see secretary Senor Jorge MACHADO and tell him that you come on my behalf and that of the word Sugar (sic.) It is very important that you get together a good finance committee to handle the money problem there. Also talk to (BLANCO) about persons you can see about money. Another person that you can see is (Julio LOBO) with Dr. BELT.

You should also see Alejandro VERGARA the chancellor of the Spanish Embassy for me. He can help you a lot, above all with Valentin ARENAS etc. The cousin of Rosaritos Elena Soto Martinez. Her name is Carolina and her telephone number is (W-0746) She lives at Galiano and Lagunas, upstairs in the Tinaje?, Apartment No. 7. She receives our letters and can help you. Introduce yourself as the brother of Haydee No one else should see her but you, and no one should know that you see her. You must be extremely careful to protect her.

Well, I believe that this is enough for now. Be extremely careful, and reorganize our rank and file, since the thing is soon.

(signature illegible)

Field Comments

1.  Previously reported as a Cuban Rebel Army captain heading a counter- revolutionary group in Cuba. BLANCO was one of the chief conspirators arrested in August 1959, when the Cuban Government smashed a plot against it.

2.  Brother and father respectively, of Reinaldo BLANCO Navarro.

3.  Presidential candidate of the Cuban People's Party in the 1958. Cuban elections. He took asylum in the Venezuelan Embassy in July 1959 and was last reported in exile in Caracas on 26 July. At that time he reportedly said that he would soon leave for New York, where his family was.

4.  In an open letter dated 6 June 1959 at Miami, one Francisco RODRIGUEZ Tamayo aka El Mejicano former Rebel Army captain, invited his former companions-in-arms to join CRAC.

5.  The BLANCO group was reportedly without funds or arms as of 31 August 1959.

6.  In a memorandum dated 16 September 1959 the U. S. Air Attache in Habana reported information from a wife of one of the prisoners in La Cabana that CRAC had gathered $1,000,000 to get Reinaldo BLANCO, Enrique OVARES, Gustavo de los REYES, Kuku BRINGUIER, and Dr. CAINAS Milanes out of prison. OVARES, REYES, and CAINAS are also high-level conspirators who were arrested in the roundup of August 1959.

7.  According to a memorandum dated 26 August 1959, from the Protection Section of the American Embassy, Habana, an American citizen who had just been released from La Cabana prison after five months' imprison- ment reported that a group of approximately 460 political prisoners and former prisoners are actively engaged in counter-revolutionary activities. Three hundred of the group were said to be at liberty in Habana, approximately 100 still held in prison, and about 70 in

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NW 50953 DocId: 32325941 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

- 5 - CS-3/416,495

7.  open rebellion in Pinar del Rio under Luis LARA Crespo, a former corporal of the BATISTA army. Among the leaders of the group was one Fernando PRUNA Blanco, who was said to be held in the Castillo Prison at the time. PRUNA Blanco (fnu) may be a relative of or identical with Fernando PRUNA Blanco.

8.  Identified by Source as the brother of Angel NAVARRO previously reported as co-ordinator of a group of counter-revolutionaries in Miami.

9.  On 22 September 1959 source reported that this army drop had been scheduled between 8 and 10 p.m. on 25 September 1959.

10. Source did not know the size of any of the groups.

11. This probably refers to Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro, reported by a usually reliable source in July 1959 to be a leader, together with one Jose Luis PUJOL of a Cuban counter-revolutionary movement. RODRIGUEZ Couceiro was reported by the same source to be a first cousin of Francisco RODRIGUEZ Tamayo, aka "El Mejicano" (the Mexican). The Habana telephone directory lists Dr. Francisco RODRIGUEZ Couceiro, a lawyer, at Pasco No. 652, Habana.

12. Morgan and GUTIERREZ are two Cuban Rebel Army majors who penetrated the conspiracy that was smashed in August 1959.

13. The Habana telephone directory lists a Union Club at San Lazaro No. 12, Habana.

14. This is possibly a reference to Dr. Valentin ARENAS Arminan, reported in July 1949 by a usually reliable source as the notary handling the purchase of the Banco Ultramar for Spanish pro-Franco interests. The Banco Ultramar was later absorbed by the Banco Continental Americano now known as the Banco Continental Cubano.

15. The Habana telephone directory lists a Jose I. RASCO at Avenida 31 No. 7406, Marianso

16. The Habana telephone directory lists a Banco Trust Company of Cuba with main offices at Obispo No. 257, Habana.

17. This is possibly a reference to Enrique LLACA Orbiz, reported in the Habana press on 18 June 1959 as an executive of the Julio LOBO organization and former newspaper business manager who was released by Cuban Government authorities on 16 June. LLACA and his son, Dr. Enrique LLACA, Jr. had been held on charges of conspiracy. A United Press report dated 24 July 1959 at Santiago, Chile, said that Enrique LLACA Orbiz a lawyer and one-time economic editor of Diario de la Marina had arrived in Chile as an exile.

18. This is possibly a reference to Guillermo BELT, former Cuban Ambassador to the United States under BATISTA.

19. Wealthy Cuban businessman with large sugar interests.

20. Wealthy Cuban businessman with large sugar interests.

S-E-C-R-E-T
NOFORN/CONTINUED CONTROL

NW 50953 DocId:32325941 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)