# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992

Memorandum to Mr. W. R. Wannall
Re: Senstudy 75
62-116395

## SSC FOREIGN TRAVEL

The CIA was informed by Senator Walter F. Mondale, a member of the SSC that he intended to travel to Europe to inspect some of the CIA covert intelligence sites in Norway and other locations. The White House, and particularly Mr. Roderick Hills, was very concerned about this type of trip feeling that it could cause all sorts of problems with friendly foreign intelligence services and possibly result in a discontinuance of agreements between CIA and some of the friendly foreign intelligence services. Mr. Colby felt that such trips had been arranged for in the past involving congressmen and that some good came out of such trips. The Committee discussed the pros and cons of the contemplated trip by Mondale and possibly Senator Gary Hart, also a member of the SSC, and decided that the purpose and procedures for such trips would be discussed with Senator Church by Mr. Colby and a senior official of the Department of State.

## NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE ESTIMATES

The SSC has asked Colby for detailed briefings as to how National Intelligence Estimates are prepared by the United States Intelligence Board for the NSC. Colby contemplates giving a rather detailed briefing to the SSC on this procedure accompanied by several senior officials of the Intelligence Community Staff.

ACTION:

For information and record purposes.

![signature]

![signature]

I recommend that we confirm this by letter to Senator Church. I have been unable to find any other documentation that it was accepted by the Committee.

![signature]


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)