124-90110-10072 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
JFK Assassination System Date: 6/2/2015
Identification Form

Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10072
RECORD SERIES : HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-114623-7

Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
FROM: CIA
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/09/1963
PAGES: 1
SUBJECTS: FRANC PECAR
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1B
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: MEMO

v9.1
NW 50953 DocId:32334079 Page 1
13


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.

RECEIVED IN
APR 1 2 1963
LIAISON

9 APR 1963.

MEMORANDUM FOR: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

SUBJECT: [Franc PECAR](u)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND/OR,
RELEASE CIA INFORMATION
IN THIS DOCUMENT, EXCEPT BRACKETS
KP 5-26-98

1. Reference is made to our memoranda CSCI-3/775,509, dated 29 March 1963, CSCI-3/775,572, dated 2 April 1963, and CSCI-3/775,622, dated 4 April 1963, all with the subject as above.

2. Another office of this Agency has provided the following additional information from Joseph MEROLA concerning Subject.

a. Subject arrived in Miami, Florida, on 4 April and resided with Joseph MEROLA until 6 April 1963 when he was scheduled to return to New York. Subject planned to return to Miami for the period of 12-19 April following which he would go to Vienna for a short visit, returning to the United States about the end of April. Subject's family will remain in the United States.

b. According to MEROLA, Subject met Assistant Attorney General William Kenny in Miami, but MEROLA had no further details on their conversation except that PECAR appeared most eager to make arrangements to stay in the United States. Subject showed MEROLA and Kenny voluminous documentation.

3. This office is considering contacting Subject during his visit to Vienna for the purpose of attempting recruitment to return to Yugoslavia. An early reply regarding information available to your Bureau concerning PECAR's activities in the United States would be appreciated.

6 page statement of Pecar furnished CIA by Bulet dated 4/18/63

Copy for N.Y. Miami FOR THE DEPUTY DIRECTOR (PLANS):

by routing slip for:

info action
date 4-19-63
by: HCF

CSCI-3/775,718

2/18/95
FBI INFO
Classified by S88MAC/KFA
Declassify on: OADR

James Angleton

EX-1782-2-26-78 556/5

1 Xerox copy made for review at FBIHQ by HCF 4-18-63

APR 15 1963

(See Bufile #62-117290)

GROUP 1
Excluded from automatic downgrading and declassification

FBI INFO

DECLASSIFIED BY 5.668 SLO/KSR (JFK)

56 APR 29 1963

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32334079 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)