# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System -
## Identification Form Date: 5/1/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10212-10337

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 100-401762-2ND NR 35

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: CIA

FROM: CIA

TO : DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/02/1960

PAGES: 5

SUBJECTS: RCF, SHF, EMP, BKG, TRA, CP ACT, ADMIN, INSTR

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: IB; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 09/21/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: APPROVAL OF CIA, INDEFINITE

COMMENTS: INC MEMO


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

# SECRET

1 - Liaison Section
1 - Mr. Floyd

100-339235
100-401762L

Date: February 11, 1960

To: Director
Central Intelligence Agency

Attention: Deputy Director, Plans

From: John Edgar Hoover, Director

Subject: SUSAN HEILICHAN FRANK
SECURITY MATTER - C

RICHARD CYRIL FRANK
SECURITY MATTER - C

10/12/90 Classified SPSMAC/GCL
Declasshiy on OADR(JFK)

Reference is made to your letter dated February 2, 1960, concerning the captioned individuals, your file CSCI-3/758,444.

Provided the following change is made, dissemination of the data set out on page two of referenced memorandum to [the Swiss Federal Police] will not interfere with the intelligence and investigative responsibilities of this Bureau. The last sentence on page two of the memorandum should be changed to read as follows:

> YELLOW
> DUPLICATE
> FEB 11
> MAILED

"He is known to have received Communist literature, is believed to have made financial contributions to the Communist Party in the U.S., and there is information to indicate Communist Party membership on his part as late as 1957."

This matter has been referred to the Legal Attaches in London, Paris, and Tokyo to alert appropriate security services concerning possible travel of the Franks in England, France, and Japan.

2 - New York (100-42479)(100-107383) (Enclosure)

1 - London (Enclosures - 3) See note Legats, London, Paris, Fan

1 - Paris (Enclosures - 3) ToRiome, and SAC, New York, page

1 - Tokyo (Enclosures - 3)

1 - Foreign Liaison Unit (Route through for review)

NOTE ON YELLOW, PAGE 3.

CLASSIFIED BY 5668 SLO/NSR
11-13-97

NW 50953 DocId:32294061 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

SECRET

Director
Central Intelligence Agency (4)

It would be appreciated if your Agency would furnish this Bureau any pertinent information received concerning possible travel of the subjects to Communist China and concerning their presence in China. Should your Agency receive information that subjects plan to travel in England, France, or Japan, it would be appreciated if you would advise the appropriate Legal Attache in London, England; Paris, Frances or Tokyo, Japan. (4)

ATTENTION LEGAL ATTACHES LONDON, PARIS, AND TOKYO, AND
SAC NEW YORK:

A Photostat of referenced Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) memorandum is enclosed for all. It is possible that Paris may receive inquiries regarding the subjects through Swiss sources. In referenced memorandum CIA did not identify its official Swisss)
source. This identification subsequently given to Bureau via Liaison. The Bureau approved CIA's furnishing this information to the Swiss Federal Police inasmuch as CIA had conducted active investigation regarding subjects in Switzerland(s)

Also enclosed for each Legal Attache are one copy of a memorandum dated 11-26-58 concerning Richard Cyril Frank and one copy of a memorandum dated 1-26-60 concerning Susan Heiligman Frank. In view of reported plans of subjects to travel in England and France, and since it is anticipated that they may travel in the vicinity of Japan prior to their return to this country, the Legal Attaches at London, Paris, and Tokyo should alert sources in England, France, and Japan concerning the Franks' contemplated travel in Europe and their possible plans to travel in China. Background information concerning the subjects set forth on page two of enclosed CIA, letter, as corrected in paragraph two of this letter may be made available to your sources if deemed advisable. For your additional information, both subjects are on the Security Index.

New York remain alert in this matter and submit any information received concerning the subjects in a form suitable for dissemination. If not already done, New York submit FD-122's tabbed "Out of the country."

SECRET


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

# CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.

SECRET

2 FEB 1960

TO: Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Attention: Mr. S. J. Papich

FROM: Deputy Director (Plans)

SUBJECT: Susan and Richard Frank

1.  In response to your 22 December communication (File No: 100-339235, 100-401762) we wish to inform you that we have received the following from an official Swiss source:

> "Richard Frank (born 1922), U.S. citizen, film technician, resident of New York, arrived at the Hotel Savoy in Bern with his wife Susan on 10 December 1959; they stayed there until 12 December leaving for Zurich. Frank inquired for a flight ticket to Prague from Zurich. While in Bern, Frank had contact with the Chinese Communist Embassy on two occasions; he or Mrs. Frank having called at the Embassy. No information is available on the nature of these contacts, nor do we have more detailed personalia."

2. We have observed that persons desiring to travel to Communist China from Switzerland frequently fly via Prague.

3. The following summary has been drawn from material which you have provided us on Subjects (see NY 100-42479, NY 100-107383 and Bureau 100-339235). Please advise if we may pass this summary to our Swiss source, but without revealing that your organization supplied the information contained in it:

"Swissource" is Swiss Federal Police - per
Cons with Mrs J Roman, Cell
2/9/60

100-401762

NOT RECORDED
128 FEB 14 1960

NW 50953 DocId:32294061 Page 4


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)