# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 5/11/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10221-10229

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: 105-72630-3

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: SAC, SJ

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 08/27/1958

PAGES: 9

SUBJECTS: PDL, ASSOC, PILOT, CASTRO, FIDEL, TRA, FLIGHT PLAN, DESTINATION, RCK

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 1B

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 06/03/1998

OPENING CRITERIA : APPROVAL OF CIA

COMMENTS: INC 6 S/S, ΜΕΜΟ

v9.1

NW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 1


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

FD-36 (Rev. 12-13-56).

FBI

Date: 8/27/58

Transmit the following in AIRTEL (Type in plain text or code)

CIA HAS NO OBJECTION TO
DECLASSIFICATION AND\OR,
RELEASE OF CIA INFORMATION

TO: MKH 3-6-98 DIRECTOR, FBI

FROM: SAN JUAN (105-new)

SUBJECT: PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ;
RENALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ;
ALBERTO EUSEBIO MOJENA
IS - CUBA

By communication marked "Secret" dated 8/26/58, [DAVID R. McLEAN,] H & R Section, [Fort Brooke (CIA)] advised that they received the following in-
formation from a usually reliable source. Information is prefaced with the following statement: "In view of the sensitive means through which we acquired it, it is requested that the FBI take no action which might compromise our source."

Communication states that PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, also known as PEDRO LUIS DIAZ, a Cuban born November 8, 1926 at Havana, is a pilot, courier, and possible agent for FIDEL CASTRO. DIAZ is reportedly associated with REINALDO BLANCO HERNANDEZ and ALBERTO EUSEBIO MOJENA who are Cubans and not further identified. Jamaican police believe that these three individuals operate from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.

DIAZ passed through Palisades Airport, Kingston, Jamaica, on May 5, 1958. On July 17, 1958, DIAZ arrived at the Palisades Airport, piloting a Cessna aircraft, #M5213D with BLANCO as a passenger.

3 - Bureau (RM)

2 - Miami (RM)

4 - San Juan
(1 - 97-92)
(1 - 109-26):

JAD:aej
(9)

CLASSIFIED BY 5648 SGD/WSR

DECLASSIFY ON:

Approved: Special Agent in Charge

NW 50953 DocId:32340836 Page 2


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)