# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 4/27/201

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI

RECORD NUMBER: 124-10279-10258

RECORD SERIES: HQ

AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 109-12-221-417

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI

FROM: LEG, MX

TO: DIRECTOR, FBI

TITLE:

DATE: 02/10/1960

PAGES: 10

SUBJECTS: NRO, INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY, MATEOS, LOPEZ, SOUTH AMERICAN TRIP, CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUATION, CUBAN EXILE ACT

DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT

CLASSIFICATION: Secret

RESTRICTIONS: 1B; 1C; 4

CURRENT STATUS: Redact

DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 05/06/1998

OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE

COMMENTS:


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

[SECRET]

Date: 2/10/60

To: Director, FBI

From: Legat, Mexico (100-743G)

Subject: MONTHLY INTELLIGENCE SUMMARY

SYNOPSIS

LOPEZ MATEOS' SOUTH AMERICAN TRIP (cont.) (page 2): Recent South
American trip of Mexican President gave emphasis to need for
coordinated effort in resolving economic problems of Latin
America. Talks dealt with stimulation of commerce, but for
present principal importance of trip seems to have been
emotional rather than materialistic. DAVID ALFARC SIQUEIROS
(page 3): While recently in Caracas, Venezuela, SIQUEIROS made
statements critical of both Mexican President and Mexican
Revolution. Mexican administration and public angered by remarks.
CARIBBEAN POLITICAL SITUATION (page 3): Cuba. Meeting sponsored
by Society of Friends of Cuba held at Mexico City, 1/17/60, to
demonstrate support for Cuban Government. Nicaragua: Report
received that Cuban Government still planning to support invasion
of Nicaragua with pro-Communist elements. Haiti: Political
situation reported to be deteriorating. PARTIDO COMUNISTA Eu
MEXICANO - PCM (COMMUNIST PARTY OF MEXICO) (page 6): XIII
National Congress, scheduled for 2/22-26/60, again postponed
to provide more time for holding of State Congressos and
preparation of discussion material. POCM representatives to be
invited to attend Congress. Federal District Committee to step
up dues collections and general cell activity. JCM held plenum
1/11-14/60 PARTIDO POPULAR PP (POPULAR PARTY) (page 7):
PP being reorganized and members being solicited to submit
background and other data. PP held annual New Year's banquet
on 2/6/60. PP inaugurated Pioneers, Boy Scout type organization,
on. 2/5/60. VICENTE LOMBARDO TOLEDANO (page 8): LOMBARDO was
principal speaker at PP New Year's banquet and generally spoke
favorably of government of LOPEZ MATEOS and his trip to South
America. SOVIET INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES (page 9): VALENTIN
VASILEVICH BAKULIN identified as new Soviet principal or MEX-87. Latter made trip to Los Angeles in January, 1960, and reported to Soviets.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

MC 100-743G

'SECRET]

Cuban Exile Activities

On January 28, 1960, PSI MIGUEL ANDRES DE LEON ROJAS
reported that responsible Cuban exile groups in Mexico City and
the United States, who have supported Dr. EMILIO NUNEZ PORTUONDO,
are convinced that General JOSE ELEUTERIO PEDRAZA CABRERA, who
commands a group of Cuban military exiles in the Dominican
Republic, would not be a wise selection as the military leader
of the attempt to overthrow the CASTRO government. The PSI
further advised that these Cuban exile groups believe that
PEDRO LUIS DIAZ LANZ, former Chief of the Cuban Air Force,
would be a much better military leader.

The PSI also advised that information received from
sources within Cuba reflected that FIDEL CASTRO had prepared a
decree ordering the United States to vacate the Guantanamo
Naval Base. According to this information, the decree was
originally prepared in late November, 1959, but had not yet
been signed for issuance.

The PSI further reported that he had heard reports in
Miami, Florida, of an invasion attempt which allegedly would
be made by supporters of ROLANDO MASFERRER, a Cuban exile who
resides in Miami. The PSI stated that MASFERRER, ROBERTO
FERNANDEZ MIRANDA, NORMAN ROTHMAN, and their associates form a
group which is not regarded in a favorable light by responsible
Cuban exiles or by responsible elements within Cuba. The PSI
stated that from the information available to him in Miami he
doubted very much that MASFERRER would be able to make an
attempt at invading Cuba or, if an attempt were made, that it
would be successful.

Nicaragua

PSI DE LEON also advised on January 28 that he had
received information from within Cuba that ERNESTO "CHE"
GUEVARA has not abandoned his project to utilize pro-Communist
Nicaraguan exiles and "Cuban "volunteers" in an attempt to
invade Nicaragua. This source advised that approximately 400
guerrillas have been trained to make up the invasion force.
The PSI stated he had received no information as to the timing
of such an attempt, but expressed doubt that it would occur in
the immediate future in view of the concern of the Cuban Govern-
ment over a possible early invasion attempt by Cuban exiles.

-5-

SECRE


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 4

SECRET

MC 100-743G

age and is disposed to follow an international policy that
will not only benefit Mexico but its sister Latin American
countries who are bound together not only by historical ties
but by the same economic and social conditions and identical
perspectives. In apparent reference to DAVID ALFARO SIQUEIROS,
leading PCM figure, he stated that some people, who are unable
to understand national and international politics although
they expound them daily, have been critical of President LOPEZ
MATEOS' trip. During the course of the President's trip
SIQUEIROS made a statement to the press wherein he criticized
the President for not accepting a bid to visit Cuba and stated
that President LOPEZ MATEOS was merely laying the ground work
for a subsequent visit by President EISENHOWER. LOMBARDO was
critical of President LOPEZ MATEOS in certain respects,
particularly in connection with the imprisonment of the
railroad strike agitators and PCM and POCM leaders.

ACTION TAKEN: None. Will be disseminated in the
next report on the PP.

SOVIET INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

LAROB

Investigation conducted by this office to identify
"VALENTIN," the new Soviet principal of MEX-87, pointed to
VALENTIN VASILEVICH BAKULIN, a Soviet Embassy employee who
arrived in Mexico City with his family on November 5, 1959.
As soon as a photograph of BAKULIN became available, it was
shown to MEX 87 who immediately and positively identified
him as his principal "VALENTIN."

On January 11, 1960, MEX 87 returned to Mexico City
from a trip to Los Angeles. He thereafter kept a prearranged
meeting with BAKULIN on January 28, 1960, and turned over to
him a report of his activities in Los Angeles, as well as a
map and newspaper clippings gathered by LA 4199-S. BAKULIN
instructed MEX 87 to pick up a Soviet message on January 21,
1960, from the dead drop at Pilares and Pestalozzi Streets.
The message was to contain questions regarding MEX-87's
report on his trip to Los Angeles, BAKULIN also set up a
personal meeting for February 15, 1960.

MEX-87 retrieved Soviet Message No. 22 on January 21

-9-

SECRET

NW 50953 DocId:32301923 Page 4


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 5

MC 100-743G

SECRET

1960. Contrary to the usual custom, this message was typed instead of being on undeveloped 35 mm. film. The Soviets inquired how and where LA 4199-S keeps the notes of his observations and the newspaper clippings, among what type of people does the Los Angeles informant initiate his contacts, what his expenses have been, the manner in which the data on the displacement of a ship seen by the informants was obtained, the intensity of traffic noted in the vicinity of the places visited, the possibility of taking photographs, the security of the objectives, how LA 4199-S explains his trips to his family, and the identity of the objectives on which data can be more easily secured.

MEX 87 deposited his Message No. 22 in the established dead drop on January 25, 1960, and generally answered the questions posed in the prior Soviet message.

Soviet Message No. 23 was retrieved by MEX-87 on February 8, 1960. It changed the personal meeting between BAKULIN and MEX-87 from the third Monday of the month to the last Monday of the month at the same time and place.

ACTION TAKEN: None, pursuant to specific Bureau instructions.

-10-

NW 50953 DocId:32301923 Page 5


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)