# 2025 RELEASE UNDER THE PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ASSASSINATION RECORDS ACT OF 1992
## JFK Assassination System Identification Form Date: 6/2/2015

## Agency Information

AGENCY: FBI
RECORD NUMBER: 124-90110-10083
RECORD SERIES: HQ
AGENCY FILE NUMBER: CR 105-89923-184

## Document Information

ORIGINATOR: FBI
FROM: MM
TO: HQ
TITLE:
DATE: 04/13/1961
PAGES: 3

SUBJECTS: CLIP
JOSEPH RAYMOND MEROLA
DOCUMENT TYPE: PAPER, TEXTUAL DOCUMENT
CLASSIFICATION: Secret
RESTRICTIONS: 1A; 4
CURRENT STATUS: Redact
DATE OF LAST REVIEW: 08/06/1998
OPENING CRITERIA: INDEFINITE, APPROVAL OF CIA
COMMENTS: TT


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 2

54-41 (Rev. 1-25-61)

Radio

DECODED COPY

SECRET

Teletype

ALL INFORMATION CONTAINER
HERDIN IS UNGLASSFAD
EXOMPY WHERE

URGENT 4-13-61 4-17 PM SK

FROM SAC, MIAMI 131836

INTERNAL SECURITY-CUBA

IS-GUBA. BUFILES 105-89923,137-6257,87-58729. ON
APRIL 3 LAST MM 722 C FURNISHED FOLLOWING RE JOSEPH R MEROLA,
FORMER CI, NOW SUSPECT IN "UNSUBS (TWO) ARMED ROBBERY OF Brazil
APPROXIMATELY $117,200 IN JEWELRY AND CASA, RESIDENCE OF FLA.
EDITH AND FRITZ DORIGO, HALLANDALE, FLORIDA, MARCH 20, 1961,
ITSP MAJOR THEFT, 00 MIAMI." MEROLA RECENTLY TOLD CI HE
IS "CONNECTED WITH CIA IN SOME CAPACITY IN WHICH HE CLAIMED TO
HAVE ACCESS TO ALL FORMS EQUIPMENT, INCLUDING FIREARMS AND
AMMUNITION, BEING FURNISHED BY CIA TO SOME ANTI CASTRO GROUP.
MEROLA CLAIMED CIA SENDS THIS EQUIPMENT TO MEROLAS HOME WHERE
IT IS SUBSEQUENTLY PICKED UP BY BOAT FROM REAR MEROLA RESIDENCE
CLAIMED HE IS REQUIRED HAVE CUBANS WHO OBTAIN GUNS SIGN RECEIPT
FOR SAME. OPERATION TAKES PLACE UNDER COVER DARKNESS. CLAIMED
TO HAVE TAKEN FROM EQUIPMENT SEVERAL AUTOMATICS EQUIPPED WITH
SILENCERS. INFORMANT CLAIMS MEROLA IS ARMING THE OUTFIT"
AND IS FURNISHING THESE WEAPONS TO VARIOUS HOODLUM ACQUAINTANCES
FOR SUM $500 EACH. MEROLA EXHIBITED ONE SUCH AUTOMATIC TO CI
AND DEMONSTRATED BY FIRING SHOT INTO AIR. CI "COULD NOT HEAR
A THING." ON APRIL 5 JOHN NOBLE, COVERT CIA AGENT WORKING
OPERATIONAL LEVEL, ADVISED DID NOT BELIEVE CIA HAD OPERATIONAL
INTEREST IN MEROLA BUT WOULD CHECK. ON APRIL 6 HE ADVISED
CIA HAD NOT OPERATIONAL INTEREST IN MEROLA ON APRIL 7 JUSTIN

CRIMINAL INFORMANT

APR 24 1961 03 APR 26 196T

If the intelligence contained in the above message is to be disseminated outside the Bureau, it is suggested that it be suitably
paraphrased in order to protect the Bureau's cryptographic systems.

NW 50953 DocId:32334090 Page 2


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Page 3

4-41 (Rev. 1-25-61)

DECODED COPY

Radio

☑ Teletype

PAGE TWO: FROM SAC, MIAMI 131836

GLEICHAUF, OVERT CIA REPRESENTATIVE, MIAMI, ADVISED ABOUT TWO
MONTHS AGO HE WENT TO MEROLAS HOME AFTER MEROLA PESTERED HIM
WITH PHONE CALLS OFFERING RENT PLANE OR HELICOPTER TO CIA
FOR USE BY FRENTE REVOLUCIONARIO DEMOCRATICO, ANTI CASTRO
ORGANIZATION UTILIZED BY CLIP. MEROLA SHOWED GLEICHAUF BOAT
"TERRY KNAUT" DOCKED BEHIND HIS HOME AND IMPLIED THIS WAS
HIS BOAT AND IT HAD ALREADY BEEN USED BY FRENTE. MEROLA
SEEMED EAGER GET OUT OF U. S. AND SUGGESTED CIA USE HIM ON
SOME MISSION TO BRAZIL WHERE MEROLA PLANNED WORK OUT DEAL
TO SHIP WHISKEY TO BRAZIL DUTY FREE THROUGH BRAZILIAN
POLITICIAN. GLEICHAUF TOLD MEROLA HE WAS NOT INTERESTED.
AFTER FURTHER CHECK, GLEICHAUF ADVISED MIAMI THIS BOAT HAS
BEEN USED ON ONE OR MORE OPERATIONS BY FRENTE, BUT NOT
LIKELY BE USED AGAIN BECAUSE IN BAD SHAPE. BOAT 63 FEET,
BEARS REGISTRATION NUMBER 270404. GLEICHAUF STATED MEROLA
NOT WORKING FOR CIA OR FRENTE SO FAR AS CAN DETERMINE. ON
APRIL 5 DAVID GLASS, COVERT CIA AGENT, FURNISHED MIAMI LIST
BOATS BEING USED IN VARIOUS OPERATIONS IN WHICH CIA HAS
INTEREST. "TERRY KNOTT" ON THIS LIST. AFTER SEVERAL
UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPTS TO CONTACT VARONA PERSONALLY, ON APRIL 13
JORGEXMORAN, SECRETARY TO MANUEL ANTONIO DE VARONA LOREDO,
GENERAL COORDINATOR OF FRENTE, CONFIDENTIALLY ADVISED MEROLA
IS WORKING ON THE BOAT "TERRY KNOTT" OWNED BY MOVIMIENTO DE
RECUPERACION DE LA REVOLUCION, MRR, WHICH IS MEMBER ORGANIZATION
OF FRENTE. MORAN STATED BOAT WAS OPERATED BY SANTIAGO BABUM
APRIL 8 AND JOSE "PEPE" ARRIOLA WAS IN CHARGE OF "TERRY KNOTT"


---
Converted with [doctly.ai](https://doctly.ai)